# docid-32306060

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10190

HQ

92-6054-2182

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, LA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/17/1967

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, CAPO, POLIZZI, ANGELO, MED, DIPPOLITO, JOSEPH,

APPOINTED, UNDERBOSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306060

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

141 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr.

Tolson..

Mr.

De Loach

Mr.

Mohr

Mr. Bishop

VIA TELETYR

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Cobrad.

NOV1 7 196,

ENCIPHERED

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rose

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr.

Mayel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

WASHDC =-5--

11- 17AM URGENT 11-17-67 JXT

TO

DIRECTOR (92-5054) AND NEW YORK' (92-2300)

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON -ENCODE-

' FROM LOS ANGELES (92-1112)

OSTRA

LCN. AR-CONSPIRACY.

00 .

NEW YORK

LA FOUR FOUR FOUR EIGHT C-TE PREVIOUSLY ADVISED

THAT LA LON "CAPO" ANGELO POLIZZI HAD RECENTLY BEEN

HOSPITALIZED AS A RESULT OF A CARDIAC CONDITION. ON NIGHT

OF NOVEMBER FIFTEEN LAST, INFORMANI IN TELEPHONIC CONTACT

pith

ch

WITH POLIZZI. POLIZZI AT THIS TIME TOLD INFORMANT THAT HE

HAD SUFFERED A STROKE WITHIN PAST TEN DAYS AND WAS PRESENTLY

CONFINED TO HIS HOME UNDER HIS PHYSICIAN'S CARE.

ON NIGHT OF NOVEMBER SIXTEEN LAST, LA FOUR FOUR

FOUR EIGHT C-TE TELEPHONICALLY ADVISED THAT HE WAS PRESENTLY

IN SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA AND IN PERSON

. CONTACT ON THAT DATE

WITH LCN "MEMBER"' FRANK (BOMPENSIERO.

REC-

23

92-6054-2182

END

PAGE ONE

NOV 21 19671

XEROX

NOV 1967

RELAYED TO

OV 271967

DocId: 32306060 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coplection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017*

PAGE TWO

LA 92-1112

BOMPENSTERO TOLD INFORMANT FAT HE HAD RETURNED

FROM A TEN DAY TRIP TO CLEVELAND, OHIO, ON THAI NIGHI OF

NOVEMBER THIRTEEN LAST. WHILE IN CLEVELAND, BOMPENSIERO

HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH LCN

"MEMBER"

LEO MOCERI. MOCERI

INDICATED THAT HE MAY VISIT

CALIFORNIA IN THE NEAR FUTURE

AND IN SUCH EVENT HE WOULD

BE IN CONTACT WITH INFORMANT.

BOMPENSIERO ALSO TOLD/ INFORMANT THAT HE HAD BEEN

IN CONTACT WITH SAN DIEGO LEN "CÁPO" JOSEPH ADAMO SINCE HIS

RETURN TO SAN DIEGO AND THAT ADAMO TOLD HIM THAT "CAPO"

JOSEPH DIPPOLITO HAD BEEN APPOINTED LOS ANGELES LCN "UNDERBOSS

BOMPENSIERO TOLD INFORMANI HE DID NOT PRESENTLY KNOW WHO HAD

BEEN APPOINTED "CAPO" TO REPLACE DIPPOLITO.

LA FOUR FOUR FOUR EIGHT C-TE PLANS TO RETURN TO

LA ON NOVEMBER SEVENTEEN INSTANT OR EIGHTEEN NEXT. HE WILL

ATTEMPT TO CONTACI LON "BOSS" NICK LICATA OR "CAPO" ANGELO

POLIZZI IN AN ATTEMPT TO VERIFY ABOVE APPOINTMENT OF JOSEPH

DIPPOLITO AS LA LON "UNDERBOSS."

END

CORR LAXINEE

CORR LINE HOLASTURE SHO BE HAD

R RELAY

DKG

FBI WASH DE

COOLE L

DocId: 32306060 Page 3

---

