# docid-32977060

## Page 1

page :

06/25/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

NSC

145-10001-10162

163 AND 164

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54214 Date:

10-10-2017--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM

: TAYLOR AND PARROTT

TO

TITLE : MEMORANDUM

DATE: 05/03/62

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : MINUTES OF MEETING OF SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) ON

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL. DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/23/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

RECURE CONCURRENOE ON

DATE:

MAR

2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214

DooId: 32977060

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Report of Progress to Higher Authority

I reported to higher authority the substance

of Mr. Harvey's briefing of the Special Group (Augmented)

on 3 May 1962, pointing out the very limited progress

which has been made and the uncertainty of the ultimate

effectivness of our program.

I mentioned the Duque

incident

indicative of the morale problem.

agreed that

continue along

the present lines

until the terminal date of the present phase in August.

axwel

.":

Te3)

HH 54214 DocId:32977060

Page 2

---

## Page 3

This docurent was previouely released in

part. The red highlighted portions were deleted

3 May 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of Special Group (Augmented) on

Project Mongoose,

3 May 1962

PRESENT:

General Taylor; Mr. Kennedy; Mr. Johnson; Mr. Gilpatric,

General Decker, General Lansdale and General Craig;

Mr. McCone, and Mr. Harvey

Excise

"Madrid"

odly

1. General Lansdale gave an interim report on the progress

of stepping up recruitment of Cubans into the U. S. Army.

He said

the consensus is that there are not more than a thousand suitable

individuals from whom additional recruits could be selected. The

Attorney General commented that the President wishes to have a large

number.

General Lansdale said that various alternatives for training

of such Cubans are being looked into.

It was agreed that such a cadre of Cubans would be an asset

to the U.S., which might be used in a number of ways,

General

Lansdale, supported by General Taylor, pointed out that in this

connection the matter of holding the individuals and giving them

useful employment after they are trained is an important and a

difficult one.

2.

Mr. Harvey gave a rundown on progress to date with agent

teams and in the general field of intelligence, including the

Opa-locka interrogation center en

Che Madrid clandestine

Pon senter.

He outlined various difficulties encountered, and said

that three agent teams have been infiltrated and that five W/T sets

are in place. Approximately 72 actual or potential reporting sources

are also in place.

significant developuent is that Major Duque. das

allow agonys responsive to him to be dispatched on putely

ntelligence gathering misatong This sort of attitude had been

forecast cartier 28à possibility,

sorrance in view of Duque s stature.)

3.

Ic. Harvey also coumented on che: two attempts made to

SO Havans

DIOS 290056

The Group asked that a check be made, as

soon as possible, on how effective these operations were. They also

asked that a copy of the seniors used be nade avas

The Group

felt that it is worthwhile to check this capability out, as is now

being done, but questioned whether once proved effective it should not

perhaps be kept in reserve for a more meaningful time.

12

Thomas

Parrott

cc*

General Lansdale

_destroyed 419163 ms

54214

DocId: 32977060

Page

164

---

