# docid-32312385

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10324-10134

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-1792-3569, 3570

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : NY

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1962

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TELEGRAM

49.1

i DocId: 32312385

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Rècords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017-4

-OPTIONALS ORM NO. 10

5017-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNNMENT

Memorandum.

SEC

TO

SAC, New York

CONDENTIAL A DATE:

12/6/62

FROM

Directon,

FBI (97-4196)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SUBJECT:

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEL

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

MAG 7.29.-98

Baltimore,

New Orleans, and New York captioned

ReBuairtel 12/5/62 to MadridaR David Schleifer,

Internal security - Cuba."

Enclosed for each office is an additional copy of

State Department telegram 11/23/62 mentioned in Bureau airtel

12/5/62.

For the information of Madrid, Richard Gibson is

Security Index subject of New York office and is former acting

Executive Secretary of the pro-Castro organization Fair Play

for Cuba Committee (FPCC).

Compels New York should promptly check established

In an efport to detemine additional data regarding ounces

6/15/98

(IR)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 S40/GCL

Ox6L

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Any pertinent data developed shoula be reported under his caption.

Hor the information of taris, we previously requested that th€

state Department land cIAllert appropriate sources when we ll

received data that Gibson had left the U.S. to visit Algeria,

and was also expected to visit Morocco, Ghana, Guinea, and Mali.

CCIA

For the confidential information of New York and Paris,

advised by liaison on 11/30/62 that it is giving consideration

to the possible utilization of Gibson on an intelligence mission

inside Cuba. If he is cooperative with CIA, it plans to give

him several general targets in Cuba.

Future utilization of

Gibson by CIA would depend on the quality of the information

he might bring back from Cuba.

We advised CIA we had no objection

to its utilization of Gibson and requested that we be furnished

any pertinent

information developed through its association with

Gibson.

CLASS TY TEASTON BY /2590325

xtra copy of this

Letter

New York SiZe On CHANTAL:

Enclosure M

2 - Faris (Enclosure)

I - Madria (InCIOSHredlO

DEC"

VEN YORK

97

=35

DocId: 32312385

Page 2

---

