# docid-32298466

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10242

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-3RD NR 23

Releaned andea tre dear

Kerred:

Habanebraster Reocade

Lecter 208 25 4332

144 T80 220- Pe3e1.

Caesa:% 48252 Case:

÷-20-2015

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/08/1958

9

GM, RES, SUR, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32298466

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

PG 92-228, 92-236

in their home and receive practically no visitors

whatever.

she stated that in

several Casual Conversations

with Nes. "ANNAnNO since last contacuca sne has not spoken

of her husband!s location nor mentioned any plans to leave

New Kensington for the summer.

neighborhood source,

216 Highland Avenue,

New Kensington, Pa.:

telephone number Edison 5-T753) on

Ton hi bua, neva on 3 to the briet and duen a i tho

TBIls interest in SAMUEL MANNARINO from Mes.

Staced that he would be happy to gives his assistance te

the FSt and would be especially alert for env evidence that

Nould indicate that GABRIEL: MANNARINO might be visiting

SAMUEE NANNARINO's home.

TEADS®

JEK Act 6 (4)

PIDESBURGLI

At New Caotle, Pa. (Lawrence County)

Will at the former location of Al's Beer Garden attempt to

develop Information concerntig the present whereabouts.

JIM COWARD who is reported to be cooperative and who could

furnish the location of a hunting lodge: owned by the WANNARINO

brothers.

For background' information refer to heading of

Places of Amusement and Hangouts Frequented in the attached

reporte

At lew Kensington, Pa. (Westmoreland County)

Will maintain

necular contact with POls

PG 545-C.and ec 564-0 for the purpose of

devetopins current information regarding the MANNARINO brothers!

legitimate enterprises, criminal activities and associates.

2. nlt recontact Mey and tirs, MARSHALL HOLT, neichborhood

• sources, at 530: Charles Avenue and Vr and Mrs.

neighborhood sources, at 216 Mighland Avenue.

NO 45952

DocId: 32298466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JEK ACt 6 (4)

pa 92-228, 92-236

4, Will report investigation being conducted by the

Los Angeles Office to develop information regarding

the MANNARINO brothers! assoclation with STEPHEN

ZOSCOrT who according to the Los Angeles Police Department

reportedly made an unsuccessful attempt to enter the

bar bueiness in Northern California several years ago

because his association with the MANNARIND brothers came

to the attention of the local police.

Investigation

requested in Pittaburgh airtel

to Bureau, 4/30/58:

• When Information is received from Philadelphia will

document

Philadelphia too hoodlums JAMES OSTICCO and ANGELO

SOJANDRA

who according to former connissioner of investigation;

Now Vork State, were In GADRIEL MANNARINO's automobile at

Apalachin, New York; on November 14, 1957-

6, Wil document top hoodium RUSSELL BUFALINO when information

1s received from Philadelphia:

Investigation requested

in Wittsburgh airtele to Philadelphia, 5/17 and 20/58:

01111 recontact PoIl

concerning the

report that the MANVARIND brothers have a nonbers operation

at Lloydig Limited 1920 Murgay Avenue, zucsourgh, nvo-ving

DAVID LAWRENCE and

SONNY (LNU), who is probably identica.

with SOVNY CINSUTTI, Shylook for the MANNARINO organization

In New Kensington:

8. Will follow and report SAMUEL MANNARIVO'@ physical

condition.

9.

will report investigation being conducted by the philadelphia

ofgice cat, the American Export Lines to determine whether

• CARATEINVANHARINO made a reservation on the: "Independence"

for Nay 6, 1958.

conducted by the Washington Field Office at the Passport

Division, Departnent of State, to determine whether CAsner

was put into etfect on Lebruary 3, 1958,

AJ.

45852

DocId: 32298466

Page 3

---

