# docid-32333256

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90106-10112

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-NR

Released under the John

assassination Recorda

Act of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54464 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

03/28/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JESUS GOMEZ FENTE

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

14 54464

DocId: 32333256

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

FD-26, (ov, 18-25-63)

F. BI

Date:

3/28/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RFI FASE DE CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jm iQ 6-27

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

5073E J9(TA)

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (8) 3/30/64 arressie

9/12/85

BIER

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

Gel: +243266/18293

IS - CUBA; NM

(00 Miami)

DECLASSIF BY B56leS-SLD/rude

4-21-95

Rerep

GEORGE

E.

Comandos

DAVIS, JR. 2/5/64 at Miami.

Enclosed are 12 copies of LHM dated and captioned

as above. Copies also furnished locali. to State Dept. Co-

ordinator of Cuban Affairs, Border Pat C., Coast Guard, G-2,

OSI, Custöms (Miami and Region II),| INS, FAA, UNI and CIA.:

This communication is classified Cor..:

ccatial"

to protect a source of continuing value.

ment).

MA T-I 18 EVELIO ALPIZAR PENCZ, PSI (uni develop

SOUTAI

CRIED

HEREIN IS UPS

EXCEPTHA

For info of Bureau,.

au; BoscH is dependira on AMBIZAR

to pilot a boat and transport Boschl and LAi

ORIGUEZ,

MIRR treasurer, along with supply. of weapon.

losives,

from Miami to Andros Island where the munitions will be

cached.

The boat will be rented. XiU)

Bure.

Miami

eagle,

-1

i 4.3.64

GED: egh

"*(6)

SES REVERSE

SIDE KORC

CLA Approved. On

ACTION

-ENCLOSURE

enc .D2) (AM) (RM)

7.05g

Is Dir./ INS/CUStOMS/

1 Cory to: CA

ONT

by routing:

info. j

Date 3/31, - y britis

offairs.

HERON MAde 3/1 ent

Special Agenta

105- 1172200

NOT RECORDED

-128 APR 7 1964

858.4

NW 54464 DooId: 32333256

Page 2

Clacafo (rachets) has bees dochsof

1041e

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

FD 3a (Rov, 18-29-69)

F B'I

PRET

eate

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority)

MM 105-2855

REVIEWED BY

/JEK TASK FORCE

ON

7-63.9 Acos

RELEASE IN HULL

-E-

- RELEASE ILLIBI

TOTAL DENIAL

BOSCHL alse wants ALPIZAR to handle the problem of

obtaining and piloting an Aerocommander plane to be used in

these plans. BOSCH expects ALPIZAR" to obtain"this" plane in

either Texas or Calif. where Aerocommanders are advertised in

trade magazines.

He will supply ALPIZAR with $1200 to obtain

option to purchase such plane, with right to use it for two

months.

BOSCH has advised ALPIZAR he will not deal with

either WILLIAM JOHNSON or CHARLES BUSH, U.S. citizens who

were involved in preparations for the 12/28/63 raid. BOSCH

indicats he mistrusts both of these men do fully

Above info has been purposely omitted from the LHM

to protect ALPIZAR whose vulnerabili

increases as BOSCH

depends more and more upon sim.

Miam:

kept Mr STANLEY SCHe

R, U.S. Customs,

Miami, informea all pertinent details:

SCHACHTER

has advisa that Comandos i as a boat, cue

drea", located

in the M. 1 River, which recently has been taken out on sev-

eral tria runs. This boat is 28 feet long and has a 185

HP motor.

It is being closely watched by Customs. [It ap-

pears this may be the boat which Comandos I plans to use on

the raid reported by ALPIZAd. 14

MI. SCHACHTER, on basis info obtaina

3y this

office

xpects to se.ye BOSCH's boat as it depart. for

Andros sland with ari. and explosives.

Miami will consinue to investigate activities of

IRR for intelligence purposes and determir if the

neutral-

-ty law are being violated bl

Approved:

• Sent

. M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

CRET

NW 54464 DooId: 32333256 Page 3

---

