# docid-32299579

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10225-10359

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-821

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/18/1963

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, ASSOC, B/F INT, RES, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9!

DocId: 32299579

Page 1

270

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-139

If anyone had the pest control contract for the King

Cole Apartments as he had a friend who was in the

business. KOREN told him the Rellable Exterminating

Co, has the current contract. It is noted in the

past that FRED FELICE was interviewed by agents of

the Miami Office because his name appeared in an

address book belonging to subject BRUNO, but he

furnished no information during the interview.

as a person familiar with the gambling and hoodlum

element in Miami, Florida, who has furnished rellable

information in the past) advised SA C. GRAHAM HURST

inFormation in the*

that years ago FRED FELICE (NYC PD #132768) had an

interest in Ciro's Night Club and Bluebird Drive In,

Miami Beach, both of which are no longer in business.

CI has not seen FELICE in some time but heard he had

a heart attack and can do very little because of his

health.

On 12/27/62 MM 837-C* advised EMMA HASSEN,

aunt of Mrs. CHARLES COSTELLO, continues to stay at

the COSTELLO vacation home at 12468 N. Bay Shore Drive,

orin santorida, which is the house where subject

FLAHASSEN at the above house on 12/27/62.

On 12/29/62 MM 837-C* stated he heard subject

BRUNO's sister, otherwise unidentified, 1s currently in

Miami.

ChArLes t

on 12/31/62 MM 837-C* advised that CHARLES

/COSTELLO, who Operates I & C Vending MachIne CO., Frenton

PA,

Flatt

N.J., joined his wife and her aunt at the COSTELLO house

in North Miami.

, On 1/4/63 MM 837<C* learned that CHARLES

COSTELLO has Known JAMES, PALMISANO, aka JIMMYXDEE,

FAH,

FBI #001072, who is subject of Miami file 92-503;

who currently has an interest in Ciro's Restaurant, Miami, for

approximately seven years.

It is noted that during early

1962 Miat agents

observed PALMISANO in the company of

GAMBINO, of New York, on almost a daily basis.

-3-

DocId: 32299579 Page 2

---

