# docid-32329026

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90084-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-151578-4

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NH 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/19/1966

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE DELGADO AGUIAR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: MEMO

v0.1

H4T 54027

2

DocId: 32329026

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-1104

UNITED STATES GO

-ERNMENT

Memorandum-

TO

FROM

ГДР.

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 7/19/66

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SAC, WFO (105-72124) (RUC)

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

CHANGED

IN THIS DOCUMENT. < 9-30-97

VICTOR ANTONIO JOSE

DELGADO AGUIAR, aka

Victor A. Belgado yAguiar

IS - CHILE

(00 :NY)

OTHERWISE

DANDEL DA RAE SHORN

HPZA7H 2"

ALL INFURMACION CONTAINED

5-7-97

CASE ON 5648 540/KSe

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

Title is marked "Changed" to add the a

obtained from INS records.

ReNYlet to Bureau, 5/31/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of an

LHM dated and captioned as above suitable for dissemination.

Two copies of the LHM are also being sent to New York.

The confidential source mentioned in the LHM is

stAT MIGUEL ANGEL CAMPA.

His identity is concealed at his

request. He furnished the information to SA DONALD HOETING.

sti

the Central Office, INS, in the LHM was furnished to

The information recelved from a representative all Cont

IC HUGH L. KNIGHT.

RED. RECDS, 15--60

D! B

SEP 10 1969

Bureau

2

New York

9)

($05-78978) (Enc. 2) (RM)

BY RAtA

1 - WFO

RLK : mj w

(5)

REC- 67 A

1151578-4

MCT-14

10S

Coity fu: CIA/State/EP (K 1+3

ONI/OSI/ ACSI

oy routing slip for into

Date 8/218%

191 JUL 21 1966

2/8/95

86-218,

VERICA!

54 AUGBy UggSavings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings/Plan

S010-108

HH 54027 DocId:32329026 Page 2

---

## Page 3

WFO 105-72124

The following confidential sources familiar with

some phases of Latin American activities in the Washington,

D. C. area, were contacted regarding the

subject but the

subject was unknown to the sources:

Source

CS WF 1317-S

PSI PEDRO F.

ENTENZA

Rev. ARMANDO

JIMENEZ

PSI Underdevelop-

ment [FERNANDO

BARBERO

16245

Date Contacted

6/7/66

6/17/66

Contacted By

SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL

SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL

6/24/66

SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL

6/8/66

SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL

6/22/66

SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL

On 6/10/66, IC MICHAEL V. DEVOL was advised by

a representative of the OSI, Department of the Air Force,

that the records of that office: were reviewed for information

pertaining to the subject and that no record identifiable

with the subject was located.

On 6/16/66, SA ROBERT F. ROBINSON, JR. was advised

by a representative of the CIA, Office of Central Reference,

Biographic Register, that the records of the Biographic

Register were reviewed for information pertaining to the

subject but no information identifiable with him was

located.

On 6/16/66, SA ROBINSON was advised by a representative

of the Office of Security, CIA, that the records of the

Office of Security were reviewed for information pertaining

to the subject but no additional information identifiable

with the subject was located. (Xu)

On 6/27/66, the records of the Offices of Security

and Visa, USDS, were caused to be reviewed by SA ROBERT I.

KUHNS but no additional information identifiable with the

subject was located.

- 2

HH 51027 DoOId: 32329026 Padé 3

---

