# docid-32292746

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10022

RECORD SERIES:

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1211

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/01/1963

5

THP, MISUR, JUSTIFICATION, CELANO'S TAILOR SHOP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292746

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Morey.

DATE: 1754437927

10-30-59)

"OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1Q

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-9-9

1) DATE:,

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 Sub D) SECRET

3/1/63

'JUNE"

SUBJEC

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

Remy FD 143 dated 1/24/63.

RE:

Title

ALE INTORMATTON CONTATHED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTVIDD BAGERS

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

Character of Case

Field Office

ANTI-RACKETEERING:

Chicago

CONF, INT

Symbol Number

CG 6343-C4

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

Ill

Declassion: OARJEK)

I. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Celano's Tallor Shop, meeting place for Chicago Top Hoodlums

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

CHICAGO

620 North Michigan Avenue second floor,

private office of JIMMY CELANO, 'owner.

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

Chicago, Illinois[S

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation

Authorized 7/14/59

Installed 7/29/59

CLASSIFIED BY5648 SUD/SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

5. Previous and other installations on the

same subject (with dates ad dees):

Regular Democratic Organization, First Ward,

100 North La Salle, 10/62

EX-102

REG

62-9-9-1211

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following

questions:

Not applicabhk line utilized? Me dEb OL tRadicE MAR

Di Is thee reillance on a switchboard

₴ 1963

c.

Is the surveillance on a public coth operated telephone?

Bureau (RM)

Chicag®

ASTORE

WFR: mps

Registered mell

MAR

15

CONFIDBNTIAL

6

DocId: 32292746

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFID

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

•e. If a party line, how many parties?

SECRET

7.

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One "mouse" microphone unit installed behind radiator, which

is enclosed in a permanent wood panel housing in CELANO's

8.

offs the installation part of a tel-mike? Il s0, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages) '

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

I3. Any ry quest for the surveillance by outside agoney leave rama, title and

No.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant praises: Moneyelant located 1a ences le)

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four other surveillances and 13 other lines.

SECRET

- 2 -

CONFIXITAL

DocId: 32292746 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

...

15. Cast of Leased IIna for instant installation?

SECRET

None.

16. Personnel Costs:

a.

Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees (SEs)

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent (SA)...

11,935.00 per annum

4 Special Agents

34,850.00 per annum (Polish only)(a)

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 SEs 200 hours or 100% of total work week

(S)

1 SA

30 hours or. 75% of total work week (CP only)

4 SAs

c.

If other installations monitored at same plant,

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6343-C* 23 hours per week or 11% of total work week of

SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6343-C* $4,319.15

17. Remarks (By SAC):

This surveillance will be continued for another

90 days VACB.

SECRET

- 3 2200 X

DocId: 32292746

Page 4

---

