# docid-32316632

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10350-10074

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-121863-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/25/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45812 DocId: 32316632

Page 1'

2

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO

ANTICOMUNISTA (FRAC)

DATE

7/25/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/19 - 7/24/63

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR. WMD:

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA; NM

REFERENCE: Bureau airtel 7/22/63.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RELEASE US CIA INFORIMATION.EADS -

MIAMI: IN THIS DOCUMEN RP 12-19-47

SID /ISIR

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1-1348

JFK)

1:) Will further identify MANUEL PONCE, 3083

Northwest 32nd Street, and consider advisability of

interviewing him.

Will maintain close contact with

activities of AGUIlAR.

in order to follow the plans and

TYPED BY

plm

OTHER 4

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

COPIES MADE 12/ Bureau (RM) (105-121863)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1

INS

Miami (RM)

-

State Dept.

(Cuban Affairs)

105-121863-

Miami (RM)

u.S.

Border Patrol

1

u.s.

Coast Guard,

Miami

G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

(RM)

1

1

ONI,

Miami (RM)

181 JUL 29 1963

OSI,

Robins AFB,

Ga. (RiS Intert aik

CIA,

Miami (RM)

BEC.O

- U.S. Customs,

Miami

(RM)

DISSEMINATION RECORD&

— Miami (105-4769)

SIO.

ÒF ATTACHED REPORT

REC: 57

54482

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

Copy to: CIA/State/3

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for mio.

Date:..

y-5. AUG 1 21903

141000 p.

Customs

NOTATION TES

Coast Quack_

ARE NORMATION CONTAINE

HORATS IS UNCASSILE

DATE /121/98 B:Sp8 MACOAT.

'10-76324-1

D. 108

NW 45812 DocId: 32316632

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-4769

3.) Will locate and interview LUIS DE PAZOS

regarding his knowledge of the AGUILAR group.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

This report has been classified "CONFIDENTIAL"

as unauthorized disclosure of information contained therein

could compromise a source of continuing value.

Pretext utilized, by SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR., in

interview of AGUILAR was in connection with his status under

the Cuban Refugee Assistance Program.

Inquiry at Universal Firearms Corporation, Hialeah,

Florida, failed to develop any information regarding AGUILAR

or FRAÇ or attempts by AGUIlAR to purchase arms there.

SA DREW observed the boat mentioned as being

located at 3083 Northwest 32nd Street.

contact with AGUILAR, and appears to

follow developments in this matter.

is in almost daily

be in a position to

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is

- INFORMANTS

LOCATION

(by request)

134-914 Sub A

OTHER 4

B.*

(COVER PAGE)

920-10017

NW 45812 DocId: 32316632 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-4769

On June 19, 1963, MM T-1, a Cuban exile who

was formerly a member of the Cuban

Rebel Army, and who

1s acquainted with certain anti-CASTRO personalities in

the Miami area, advised as follows:

MEMBER OF SUPEGT ORGANIZATION

MANOLO AGUILAR, 829_Southwest Ninth Avenue,

Miami, is Head of the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista

(FRAC), and was planning to mount one or more raids

against Cuba in two or three weeks. Source stated the

AGUILAR group has three boats, two of which are located

nast or

in the Miami River, and one in a garage in Miami. It was

also reported that they had a cache of explosives which

they were planning to use on these raids. Source stated

that this group' had contacts in New York, where they

were buying arms which they plan to bring to Miami. Among

the equipment which they were seeking to buy were a number

of .57 millimeter recoilless rifles. He stated that this

group also had contacts with fishermen in Key West, Florida,

on whom they could count for assistance in connection with

their proposed raids.

"Diario Las Americas", a Spanish language

newspaper published in Miami, Florida, in its issue of

February 15, 1962, contained a directory of Cuban

Revolutionary and

Professional Organizations in Exile.

On this list was the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista,

453 Northwest Third

1, Street, Miami.

The April 27, 1962 issue of the "Miami Herald"

carried a front page article entitled, "Exiles Train

Again Without U.S. Aid".

The article reflected there F//:

were approximately twenty-two anti-CASTRO groups under-

going military instruction in the Miami area.

Listed as

participating in this training was MANUEL AGUIIAR, Head

of the

Anti-Communist Revolutionary Front.

2.

MEMBER OF SUBTECT ORGANZATION

NW

45812 DocId: 32316632 Page 4

---

