# docid-32310725

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Motej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10307-10029

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-633

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/24/1962

1

SGI, ASSOC, CONFERENCE, BUSS ACT, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

299

DocId: 32310725 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-Ại (Rev. 6-2-611

DECODED COPY

• Radio

*x*Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

Evans b

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

DEFERRED 2-214-62

TO DIRECTOR

11:30 AM CALL FORMATION CONTAINED

HERLIN IS UNOLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20-94

FROM SAC CHICAGO 241616

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6486-0*

ADVISED LATE LAST NIGHT

AND EARLY THIS MORNING THAT GIANCANA

HELD A LENGTHY CONFERENCE WITH INDIVIDUAL BELIEVED TO BE

LOU BRADY FROM CLEVELAND. CONVERSATION COVERED BY EXCESSIVE

BACKGROUND NOISE AND TRANSCRIPTION NOT COMPLETE. TEXT OF

CONVERSATION INVOLVED A PENDING NINE MILLION DOLLAR PURCHASE

OF POINTS IN A HOTEL BELIEVED TO BE IN RENO, NEVADA BY

GIANCANA. ONE PARTY THIS GROUP IS POSSIBLY DEALING WITH

IS GEORGE SAX, OWNER OF SAXONY HOTEL IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA.

NO DEFINITE COMMITMENTS WERE ARRIVED AT DURING CONVERSATION.

EFFORTS CONTINUING TO CLEAN TAPE TO OBTAIN MORE CLEAR

TRANSCRIPTION. CG 6512-0 ADVISED THIS DATE. THAT ONE CARL

MILANO, CLEVELAND HOODLUM, ARRIVED CHICAGO FROM CLEVELAND

TWO WEEKS AGO SPECIFICALLY FOR A CONFERENCE WITH GIANCANA.

BRADY AND MILANO KNOWN TO BE CLOSE. PRETEXT INQUIRY TO

LOCATE FRANK ESPOSITO AT CHICAGO NEGATIVE. MIAMI ADVISED

BY SEPARATE COMMUNICATION. GIANCANA CONSIDERED ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

12:37 PM

MUC

REG- AZ

92-3121-133

25 FEB 2'8 1962

54 MAR 1 1962

if the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

saraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId:32310725 Page 2

---

