# docid-32296644

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10420

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-2904

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MD

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1961

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MRR, ACA, ORGANIZATIONS, LIST

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32296641 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (91 USC, 2107 Hote)?

IS BATE: 11-14-2017

STIONAL FORM NO. 10

NITED. STATES GOV

MENT

Memorandum

CONFOS TAL

Director, FBI (109-584)

DATE:

7-31-61

PEROM

[race attache, want 1205-207 a

OF ABASA

5-19-94 где

39/84

CIA HAS NO OGJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES DE SATTAR

86/

IS - CUBA

ION CONTAICED

€ 1.00

*

Re Madrid letter 0-9-01. 9

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Attached are ten copies of a letterhead memorandum

setting forth additional information on this matter,

as ten copies of an evaluation memorandum.

the letterhead memorandum is ANGEL MIRANDA URRUTIA. He was

introduced to the writer by JESUS MANZARBEITIA, treasurer in

Spain of the delegation of the Frente Revolucionario Democratico

COPY

and a good contact of the Madrid Office.

MANZARBEITIA said

that MIRANDA URRUTIA had worked for him for a

number of years

171.

in Havana for his 'business and he vouched for him completely.

The memorandum has been classified confidential

to protect MANZARBEITIA and MIRANDA URRUTIA since it is

COPY AND

anticipated that the latter will continue to furnish informa-

tion of Bureau interest to the Madrid Office. A copy of

the memorandum was disseminated locally to the CIA here. (*

An extra copy of this letter is attached for forwarding

by the Bureau,

together with a copy of the letterhead memorandum

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668

-8-19-97

to be in the Miami territory at the present time.

The Madrid Office will continue to follow this

car.

watter here and the bureau will be advised, el

For rente

P.

3

- Bureau (Enc.

ADORECE

(1

20°)

ON

- MiamI

105-1742)

109-581-2904

dA Hadrid

ALL INFORWAVION COA

(4)

153

ENCL

in

1961

SEN AT WHERE SHOO

perg

OTHERWISE

50 AUG 1 2 1561

Copy to:

CIA/State/RAB

ONI/pSI/G2

RA miAmi (cof litter,

by routing

Date S

NATIE

DocId: 32296644

Page 2

---

