# docid-32307807

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10165

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 100-42303-519

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BARRETT, ROBERT M.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/09/1959

27

JFC, MAFIA, ASSOC, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, ORGANIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

06/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307807

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released unfler the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-136

INFORMANT PAGE

DL T-1 is DL 105-C, who is closely associated

with the Italian

element in Dallas.

DI T-2 iS MR. ERNEST GENTRY, Field

Supervisor, U.S. Narcotics

Bureau, Dallas.

MR. GENTRY

stated he will make all information

concerning the MAFIA obtained by his agency available to the

Dallas Office'but requests that his identity and furnishing of

this material be kept strictly confidential and never disclosed

to any source outside

the

•FBI

DI T-3 IS MR.

JEROME I.

CRANE,

co-ower of the Crane-longley

Funeral Home, Dallas.

This firm, according to uk. CHANE and

Lieutenant SOUTER of the Dallas Police Department, handles approxi-

mately 85 per cent of all Italian funeras

in Dallas.

In addition,

MR. CRANE is vell acquainted through his business with many

Italians in Dallas, especially JOSEPH E. CIVELLO, JOE IANNI, the

CAMPISI brothers, and

ROSS MUSSO.

CRANE has

stated he will

cooperate with the FBI on a confidential basis in any manner.

requested of him.

He has furnished detalled information from his

confidential records concerning the relationships and birth data

of all Italians suspected of being MAFIA

adherents and their

families.

DL T-4 is MR. E. W.

THURMAN, Supervisor Investigator,

Immigration and

Naturalization Service, Dallas,

U..

S.

Texas, contacted

March 26, 1958, by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DEA

REVIEWED BY FSW/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

6/4/97 dAb/meS

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

in in.

DUS

REVIEWED BY SWUFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/4/92 lah

If RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32307807 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Joln I'. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 210% Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

94-136

Will advise Dallas if information concerning tattoos of

crosses on the back of the hands of MafIA members born in Sicily

or Italy has ever come to the attention of the New York office

acquainted with MAFIA activities. will possibly consider checking

arrest records for descriptions concerning tattoos of a repre-

sentative number of MAFIA suspects, such as VITO GENOVESE, JOSEPH

BONANNO, JOSEPH PROFACI, et cetera.

SAN FRANCISCO

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

Through the records of the U. S. Immigration and

Naturalization Service, their No. A1563446, Petition No. 3387,

will obtain birth data

• information of ROSS MUSSO, brother-in-law

Of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO. MUSSO was naturalized June 23, 1945,

but according to U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service,

Dallas, this information is

on file at the San Francisco Records

Center.

MUSSO alleges he was born in Italy in 1896.

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will continue contacting DL 105-C, JEROME I. CRANE, and

ERNEST GENTRY, U.S. Narcotics Bureau, for any information they

may be able to develop concerning the MAFIA, its activities and its

members or adherents: U

Will consider interviewing HARRY KAHN, who, according to

police records, was involved in the gambling activities of an

Italian group in Dallas in the Fall of 1958, with a view towards

developing him as a confidential source or an informant. Will

obtain background information of TONY MENTESANA. U

DEA

REVIEWED BY FSWJFK TASK FORCE

ON 6/4/97 dablmes

RELEASE IN FULL

D

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

-

4a

INS

COVER PAGEEVIEWED BY EE/JFK TASK FORCE

ON -

9/417dlot

E RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32307807 Page 3

---

