# docid-32310811

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10308-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-716

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/11/1962

SGI, ASSOC, ARMORY LOUNGE, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310811 Page 1

321

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL CURLAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY 1 1 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLea

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

5-11-62

5-43

PM

JEG:

TO

DIRECTOR /92-3171/

FROM JAG, CHICAGO 192-3491 IF

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY• CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH PC ADVISED

YESTERDAY

THAT SHE ATTEMPTED TO MAKE CONTACT WITH GIANCANA AT THE ARMORY LOUNGE,

FORESI PARK, AND WAS UNSUCCESSFUL. DOMINIC BLASI, GIANCANAS NUMBER

ONE LT. ADVISED INFORMANT THAT GIANCANA IS OUT OF TOWN• NOTED, HOW-

EVER, THAI GIANCANA WAS OBSERVED BY A FRIEND OF THE INFORMANT IN THE

VICINITY OFTHE ARMORY. PIS AUTOMOBILE WAS OSSIRVED YESTERDAY BY F

BUAGENTS ONE@BLOCK FROM ARMORY. NOTHING OF PERTINENCE WAS DEVELOPED.

INTERMINE STATED SHE ATTEMPIED TO CONTACI GIANCANA FOR THE PURDOSE

OF APPRISING HIM OF THE FACT THAT HER YOUNGEST CHILD, AGE TWO, HAS CANCE

OF THE "KIDNEY, AND WAS DESIROUS OF GETTING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM

HIM. NOTED THAT GIANCANA BELIEVES THIS CHILD TO BE HIS. BLASI ADVISED

INFORMANT HE WOULD ATTEMPT TO CONTACT GIANCANA.

ARMED, AND DANGEROUS.

END AND ACK AND HOLD PLS

REG 13

9

2-3172-

116

6-48 PM OK FBI WA RAC HOLDING :

9 MAY 14 1962

EX-115

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

53 MAY 18 1962

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4-23-84 BySP5R56/CDC

DocId: 32310811 Page 2

---

