# docid-32325816

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90038-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4930-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/19/1960

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

w9.1

NW 45771 DocId: 32325816

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5-155)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

DENVER

Office of Origin

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka

Date

10/19/60

Investigative Period

9/15 - 10/14/60

Report made by

PAUL E. BUSH

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

eis

Approved A

Copios mado:

REFERENCES:

Dallas letter to Denver dated August 31, 1960.

(Interoffice).

Report of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS, Dallas, dated

September 27, 1960.

Dallas letter

to Houston dated October 10, 1960.

(Interoffice).

- RUC -

INFORMANTS:

Denver I-1 is PCI L

Denver,

Colorado, contacted by SAs WILLIAM P. SPRINGSTON and PAUL E.

BUSH.

It is noted that [

Twas identified as an associate

of DOLAN by the Denver Office in 1951 and only recently moved

from Chicago, Illinois, to Denver, Colorado.

• stated on

May 11, 1960, he has had no recent contact with DOLAN and has

received no information reflecting DOLAN has been in the Denver?

in Charge

Do not write in spaces below

9+4930-4

REC- 23

1-19

J07241960

-

Bureau

2 - Dallas (92-292)

1 - Denver (92-174)

Capy sent to Can De lift

0-6-1

Cry a 4710,

CRIMIT

SAISECT.

Property of FBI —

dheao you j (offal, and neither it nor its contents are to bo distributed outside the agency to which loanod.

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 O--385319

NW 45771 DocId: 32325816

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

DN 92-174

DETAILS:

I. RESIDENCE

On May 11, 1960, DN T-1 reported that he has

been acquainted with JAMES M. DOLAN since 1946 and that he

knew DOLAN as a con man and crooked gambler, who was con-

victed in U. S. District Court, Denver, in 1953 on charges

of impersonating a Federal Officer, as a result of DOLAN's

activities and attempting to "shake down". Denver residents

for large sums of money. Informant stated DOLAN has served

the prison term imposed upon him in U. S. District Court,

Denver, and is now residing in Dallas, Texas, where he is

reported to be an official of a labor union.

Informant

stated he has had

no reports that DOLAN has been in the

Denver area since

he was released from the penitentiary.

On May 12, 1960, LESLIE REED, U. S. Probation

Officer, Denver, Colorado, informed SA PAUL E. BUSH that

after being convicted on impersonation charges in U. S.

District Court, Denver, in 1951 and placed on probation,

DOLAN violated his probation and was sentenced to a prison

term, most of which sentence was served at the Federal

Correctional Institution, Seagoville, Texas. He stated

DOLAN was released on parole from that institution on

February 21, 1956, and since that time has resided in the

Dallas, Texas, area where he was under supervision of the

U. S. Probation Officer, Dallas, Texas. He stated that

DOLAN was released on parole on

September 25, 1959.

It is noted that as of May, 1959, the Dallas

Division reported DOLAN was residing in Dallas where he was

office manager of the American Guild of Variety Artists.

- 2 -

NW 45771 DocId: 32325816 Page

3

---

