# docid-32314712

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10336-10360

RECORD SERIES:

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-568-344

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

DE

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/12/1964

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

VITO GIACALONE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32314712

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

"Released under the' John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Re:

Vito Giacalone

The Source advised that Dominic Peter Corrado, approximately

a week previous, had ordered Dominic "Sparky" Corrado, Jimmy

Corrado, and Peter Corrado to sell their homes, however, this

had not been done, and Dominic Peter Corrado was very upset over

it.

Source

advised that it was Anthony Tocco's opinion that

Ann Paul had assisted "Sparky" Corrado in the embezzlement

of the money.

One of the reasons he thought that she had

assisted was because she handled the money and knew where the

He said it was also true that Dominic

for a number of years, even prior to the death of Peter Corrado.

A Confidential Source, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that Vito Giacalone recently.

had been with George

George. Vito Giacalone had questioned

George George as to who his partners were and he replied that

he was a partner of Dominic "Sparky Corrado. Source stated

that when Vito Giacalone had asked him, George George wanted

to know what was wrong, because he had

understood that

"Sparky"

had cleared the partnership with Dominic Peter Corrado.

The

Source stated that George George and "Sparky" Corrado were going

into some

type of pool table business, however, George George

was ready to back out since he had heard, after calling "Sparky"

Corrado's residence on one occasion, that Anthony Clocalone and

Dominic Peter Corrado had been by there

and picked up "Sparky"

at 7:30 AM..

Source stated that according to Vito Giacalone,

George George did

, not want to know what the trouble was, but

he was going to back out because he knew that something was

wrong if Tony and Dominic had picked

"Sparky" up that early in

the morning.

Another

Confidential Source, who has furnished reliable

Information in the past, advised on February 6, 1964, that on

February 2, 1964, Edward Holly was asked to come over to the

home of Michael polizzi, an old friend.

When Holly arrived at

Polizzi's house, he was

questioned by Anthony Giacalone and

Dominic Peter Corrado.

He was questioned as to his activities

and business dealingwith Dominic "Sparky" Corrado. Allegedly

Holly denied any business dealings with "Sparky".

He stated

that he had never had any investments with "Sparky" Corrado.

- 9

DocId: 32314712 Page 2

---

