# docid-32319423

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10369-10057

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-J11

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 46064 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: DL

TITLE:

DATE: 05/20/1964

'PAGES:

351

SUBJECTS:

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LHO/OUTGOING FIELD

VOLUME III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, TTY, NOTES, A/T, LET, TELEGRAM, RADIOGRAMS, MEMO, CABLEGRAMS,

LHM

v9.1

HH 46064

35

DooId: 32319423

Page

1

---

## Page 2

togat, Doua (03-20)

tos, T0X (105-83

LONE

Branigan

22 tenthan

S1m00

4-30-81

stel 4-21

công to the

) ов 21-29-60

(arm)

Dunes

tion

to

Nod DOLA

Kula A.

om at the hon

the tolle

thes

то піно

afrtel.

STET

but plagulay.

2 - Dalton (100-10461) C

acto

1 - Torolyn Liatson Untt (route thru for zeview)

NOTE: SEE PAGE 2

JuS: mhw (9)

AT INFORMISTON GONE A TEN

3/15/99

CLASSIFED BY 56l8-54D/rde

DECLASSIFY ON: 23X

SFE

SECRET

30d-1002>

46064

…DocId: 32319423

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Legat, Bonn (62-36)

MOS HARVET OSKALD

105-82555

EunE

NOTE: Articles in the INISZ of 11×29-63 rolated to General Edwin A.

pastero one article boing a report of a tranentlantle telephone

interview with balker by & representative of that paper aos the

second relatod to statement that Devald ande an atterpt on the laue

Walkein

ajaetta life early in the Sumer of 1963, and following

arrest he van rolensed by order of Attorney General Robert Kennedy.

The above publication has been identified as an extrone right wir

which is several days after the article appeared in Geruany.

author of the 2 articles above and was in the U.8, sone time before

11-23-63 conducting interydews and resourch for the DNZS%.

Legat.

ong, advison that the BfJin obtaining original copios oi the DNZSZ

lasue 13-20-63 wherein the 2 articles appear.

Dallas being

instructed to check whereabouts of ltiert who was supposed to have

returned to Vest Germany on April J, but this not yet verified,

Kuvert reportedly & Geruns student studying at the Unlversity of

Dallas and a contaibutor to DIZS%,

Dallas not to interview Funert

1f he is still at University of Dallas since possibility be not

neved in preparation of articles.

11 luench in intervien by

5LB1V implicates Kunert in the articles and Kunert is still in the

U.Sos consideration will then bo ivon to interviewing him. Buffles

contain no identifiable derogatary info ze luench.

RECHER

302-10021

HH 46064

DooId: 32319423

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Legat, Parta (100-1793)

Field 7alter

rewutilet 4/12/64

4/20/68

Director, FBI (100-354341)

THOMAS CITTINES BUCHARAN, J.

• Branigan

• Lenthan

1 - 3. 1. StRoo

Le Paris letters

3/19/04 and 3/20/64 captioned

Thomas Gittinge Buchanas,

35., Security Matter - C."

No active investigation being condueted by the

Larenu concerning Duchanas. While the Bureau does not

possosa contimatory Inforuation regarding Buchanan's

alleged visits to Dallas and other United States cities

to prepare his articles, it is know that be was in the

United States and dig nake sone inguiries. This inforsation

me cumished to (Ainin Lontarmes, your prinaire, e

Ja the Direction de Za Survelllance du Territoire. (C

Enclosed for your infomation and per your

request in Telet 3/20/64 1s a copy of a translation of

Buchanan's artiele in the 3/19/64 issue of the French

nevapaper *1 *Express, " as voll as copies of an artiele

refuting Buchanan and buchanan's reply which appeared

in the Bamburg, Germany, Dewspaper Die Velt, won 3/17 and

3/19/64, respectively, and tranalations thereos.

NEE INCORN SETON CONTAINCO

Enclosures 8

-Fore prison bait route caru for revier

• 205-82555 (Lee Harvey Oswald

JiS:pahipa

013) 49 V 54530/nide

(8)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XC

JFK

NOTE:

Paris letter 3/19/64 requesting infornation as to

whether Buchanan had sotually visited the U. S. and, particularly

Dallas, to gather information for his series of articles on the

President's assassination which have been appearing in the French

newspaper

*L'Express."

Buchanan adnitted Commnist Party nember

ship in 1948, 1952, and 1053 and is carried on the Reserve Index.

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THO

38X-19023

NH 46064

DooId: 32319423

Page

4

---

## Page 5

DENTIAL

ZED TETORTETEOR COT TANTED

Legat, Parte (100-1793)

4/15/64

Director, FBI (100-354341)

Erani ger

Lenther

J. H. 81300

THOMAS GETTINGS BUCHANAN, J.

SECURITY MATTLE

le Paria letters 3/10/64 and 3/20/64 captioned

*Thomas Gittings Buchanas,

Security, Matter - C.*

No active investigation being conducted by the

concerning Buchanan.

-Thile the Bureau does not

possess confirmatory information regarding Buchanan's

aLleged visite to Dallas and other United Statee cities

to prepare his articles, It is known that he visited

Deputy Attorney Goneral Ischolas deS. Katzenbach agg

Mr. Blowrd Willens of the President's Coumianion, Lihis

Information may be furnished tol Alain Montarras, your

principol contaot in the Direction de la Surveillance du

Territolse 1(C)

closed for your information id per your

request in relet 3/30/66 10 a copy of a translation of

Buchanan's article in the 3/19/64 issue of the French

nerapape? "L'Expresg" as well la copies of an article

Tofuting buchanan and Buchanan's reply which eppeared

in the lamburg, Gerany, newspaper Die Volt, " on

3/17 and 3/19/04, respectively, and translations thereof.

Xoc losures = 5

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for review)

1 + 105-88555

Harvey Osvald)

21501

GEASSIRIED BY 5608-32D/muk

Class 294 13

6P685A/a

Declassity on: OADk 3/32/85

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X;

NOTE:

Parta letter 3/19/64 [requesting Intornation as to C 4]

whether Buchanan had nctually Visited the U. B. and, particularly

DaLlas, to eather infornation for his series of articles on the

*resident's assass mtor

which have been appearing in the French

"L'Express.

chip tr 1648, 1952 and

Buchanan adnitted Comunist Party norber-

lous and 35 carried on the зeorve 11008.

(NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TNO)

CONF

392710923

HH 46064

DooId: 32319423

Page

5

---

## Page 6

B

- J. M. S1200

CONFTE

Letter to Paris

Be: THOMAS CITTINGS BUCHANAN, JR.

100-354341

LOTS COULL NUED:

IMAGEMOS

Ils articles in "Z'Axpress" have been received from Legat,

Paris, translated and copies thereo? forwarded to the

President's cousinexon

No active investigation being

condueted on Buchenan, Lout intormation re his presence

the V. S. being furnished Legat for [reference to the DST<<J

vases wants to know 11 Buchanan's artiales were or were not

written la Paris.

Is inforsation shows articles prepared

In Paris without visit to U. So to set facts, Legat says

Lor any be able to take some disereet action to diseredit

Ôr neutralize Buchanan CYnswers to Legat lotters hold up

pending receipt of traislations of Buchanan's articles

received in Paris 3-20-64 letter and of artieles in "Die Welt"

3-17-64 and 3-13-64 which could be furnished to Legat, Paris,

in one setter Legat, Paris, Diso urnishing Dat appropriate

background information ze Buchanan, C/Baitinore, Lallas, Winnie

and 5o aiso being furnished copies of translations of

Buchanen's articles and "Die Welt" iteas 3/17 and 3/19/64 for

information by separate communication. Above offioes being

requested to make no laguiry,

but to furnish any avallable

intornation so Buchanan's visit for transmittal to Legat, Paris.

7,09

GONFID

NTAI

3P11092>

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

6

---

## Page 7

NG, Sou Torl (203-7

Tout

Dizeeton, 103 Ci0s

LES BARVET OSEAL

15 -8 - CO

to

dore Lee

coolved fron ing D048-C.

AlLegation ses forta, In

7935602

aintlas

nade by Bars Lang Si

700g

Ве іслама

the President"

sinnesos ad Fresident

arousel Clus de Dallas,

Bean

dassan, Delles Dolles Offices

Intestigation bee developed no

En Tieg of

the 13e

cesflenily

9t03 0S

honte D

De aboute

Committee

pertinent intomation set forta in senietel

asservice Lan

antton to

COR

2 - Dalĩas 000-105032

1 - 105-90362 (Theodore Lee)

10 200-9189

(EPCC)

(12)

SEE NOTE PACE THO

2pg - 1002s

HH

46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

7

---

## Page 8

2o:

Director, 783 (10

DANVET CHIAL

rial, 4-1-04 sutting fonta allegation of

ived troa XY 2010-C.

Allegation set forth in

legation made by bars Laze

sho le Reeva

tertisery before the Prostdens)e Coenteston

Alloging

Connedy a

SILOS MOR

pet pries to the sam

oniestion of President

not place at the Carousel Club to Dalise

BEAR, Dallas Polios OffseE

Larescigativa las developed no

meling eves took place on that

ever lakely.

In vies of the mtare nad Conteston'e interest in above

allegation,

attomi otterte shoutd be mado so reintervice los

001 210321g

eering)

cements set fonta in renartel. Philo

no choald bo bore in mind. ME copperative

CONS

so hond of Thin Piny Lon Caba

SANTOSITE

stdon sot forsa in resintel

1302

e11 as

DO CERT

da le

C0202002090

8 • Daltes (100-10661)

3 - 205-06903 (Theodore Lee)

1 - 106-9140 (TPCC)

(12)

DEE NOTE PACE THO

398- 19023

NH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

---

## Page 9

Branigan

Lenchan

Anderson

Aletel

RAC, New Tock (100-38-131)

Director, FUZ (106-88555)

LES RAEVEY OSNALD

L0-E- CUBA

morialriel elSa setting forth salegation ot

Thoodore

Leo recelyed tros IX 3013- C

Allegation set forth therein appears to be similar to

othes insupported allerationa previously received concerains

which allegatione oppears to attenpl to discredit Offices

In yies of the alove and the recent uncooperative

attitude of leo,

no zurther action desired.

Lowever, New York

chould Ancorporate pertinent intomation concerning this

aLlegation in ite next report concerning captioned matter suitable

tor dissonination to the President'o Counieston.

2 - 201188 (100-30461)

w:wccosowo00000re1100/

1305/9146 CPGC)

Luầ: too

(10)

Lee is former head of EPCC,

Vollowing assassination

of President Kennedy, he made available, to FBI, through his attorney

certain cassospondence between usweetect however, ne subsequent y

has relused to be interviewed. Lee now polates statements

allegedly received from Corner SPCC members that Police Officer

Tippit assassinated President Kennedy having met individual

suggested as possibly Oswald in Jack Ruby's night club approximately

one veels before assassination.

MH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

---

## Page 10

Branigan

Dulline

Londhan

ASSESOT

ALrCeL

398

BAG, New Tort (106-23431)

Director, FBI (105-82

555)

LARVAT OSWALD

Be Veirtel 1-04, setting forth allegation of I Theodore

Lee received tron NY

2963-C,

allegation pot forth therein appeaze to be similar to

othes unsupported allegations

previously received concerning

Canastation of police Ortiou

Tippis with Osuale and huby.

which allegatiou appears to attenpe to discredit officer.

lipple.

In viou of the above and the peccat uncooperatave

attitude of Les, no further setion desired.

Don York

Could incorporate pertinent intomation concerning tais

allegation to its next report concorning captioned matter suitable

for/dissonintiou to the President's Conteston:

8 - Dallas (100-10861)

2 - 105-96362 (Theodore Lee)

1-205 9146(59CC)

(10)

NOT:

Lee is former head of SPCC.

Tollowins assassination

of President Kennedy, he made available to FBI through his attorney

certain coxespondence between Oswald &PCC; however, he subsequently

has refused to be interviewed. Lee now relates statemente

allegedly received fron former FPCC menbors that Police Officer

Tippit assassinated Prosident Kennady havinz met individual

suggested as possibly Omald in Jack Ruby's/ night club, approxinately

one vock before assassination.

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

10

---

## Page 11

Lenihan

Stewart

Legat, Ottava (305-364)

Director, TBX (205-82

4-1-6

Informtson or lot all 64, a copy of witch la attached tons

o to of think:

Information that

the U.3. Chief

be in one less

after

ada sheard

WDS inhw (10)

de entry.

• 14

x100.

to the DCUP as

owen tron the

nino a ponsibility

my have to retur

to bo a ma

1 = 64-42137 (Osborne)

1 - Yoreign Liaison Unit (route thra

for review)

398-1002)

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

11

---

## Page 12

C8I83S

at, Tate

NOTE: A man named John Bowen sat next to the subject during the

bus trip tron Texas to Mexico City on 9-26, 37-63.

Loven has been

identified an Albert Osborne,

boro 11-12-88 to Grassby, England.

Be is a solf-ordained Baptist minister who runs a mission in Mexico

and appeare to be & con ann.

He was interviewed in Nashville 3-3-04

at which time he aduitted furnishing false into as to his identity

and douled any knowledge of Oswald or being a passenger on the above

bus:

We have conducted considerable invostigation and have established

that Osborne was sitting next to the subject on the bus on the above.

mentioned trip and to pursue this point further will not furnish un

any additional productive data. It does not appear that Osborne has

ary personal

knowledge relating to Ouwald or any connection with

Osweld.

He heattancy and vaguenose during intorview is dtributable

to the faot that he is a con man operating a mastonazy in Texnelugen

and &e solfelting funds for this niaslogary under the name fo2/ Osborne

and Lowen,

to recently adyised one of the coutributore that Bowen

had boon his associate in the operation of the mission and had died

and so as bot to lose money Osborne arranged with banking authorities

for paynents in both the name of Osborne and Bowen. By letter 3-30-64

we furnished the Commieston the copy of the Dallas report and

suggested it may destro to subpoena Osborne and place him under onth

in view of the fact that he has contiauntly lied to us. Je also

advised IIS and the Chief Postal Inspector by letters 3-30-64 as

indicated in the outgoing.

, Legat, Ottawa, had been requested to obtain

all date available concorning Osborne tron 10.P.

ACHP bad little data

of value and zoquested additional data of an identifying nature tron

ue. There de no further nood to continue the Osborne aspect of this

Investigation in that we have zosolved he has no connection with

394-10021

NH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

12

---

## Page 13

Braudgan

Lenanan

$1200

Legat, Bos

n (63-36)

Director, THE (105-32555)

LES HARVEY SVALD

SECRE

pila frede

3-30-64

3115/94

DECLASSIFY ON: 25%

Retratetel 3-5-6%

in the "Deutsche Mational-gate

Lating to the artieles appearing

mp und Soldaten Zeltur

asseskination of

Loveman Elen 9f Peasant Seamazel Bauda As Waller and the

resident

Through sourcos avatlable to your office you shonla

attempt to obtain two copten each of the two articles which can

be fomarded to he away for tamalation and diasonination

to the President ta Connission.

In additton

Poor Vertain, a hold dotering ore the any some 5.

the Protection of the Constitatia"/ the statua of thete

cos coration for pore preelsely lamt tying the sources of the

to articles and aleo shenin the

preparation of, the articles,

Sabr

scide circumstances Perare

results of your further

перту ропроу.

1 - Dallas (100-10\61)

1 - Toretgn Ltaison Unft (route through for review)

JUSEBAC

(8)

Articles in

the

"Doutacho National-Zeltung und

Soldaten-Zeitung" of 11-29-63 zelated to General Edwin A.

Intery Lew a th walkerely a representative of that paper and the

one article being a report of a trensatiantle telephone

second related to statront that Oswald made en atteupt on the

subjectts life early in the summar of 1963, and following

arrest he was released by order of Attorney General, Robert

Kennedy.

The above publication has been identified as an

estrene

right ving publication by the arva

The Bureau

Lorned from Marina Oswald on 12-3-03

Oswald's attempt

Walker ta life in April, 1963,

which

is several days after

the

article, appeared In Germany:

The bureau

desires to determine

NOTE COTTINUED PAGE IVO

KOO?

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

13

---

## Page 14

Lonn

OSWALD

205-82555

-SECRE

the baste for the allegations

the Cornis, nouspapes

Bonny

has adyisod that the fary suggests tho allegations

OUTDOG LOKAY 102616 LOOS DOG have Soureos Close Co

the

neuspaper in question but is exploring the matter of pinins

heir appearance had been set forth, in withe Herald of Froedon"

taton Island, New York

- 2-

3Pd-l00e)

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

14

---

## Page 15

Branigan

Lenihan

d. No 51z00

Legat, Ottava (163-364)

Director, FBI (105-82555)

LEE HARVEY OSNALD

IS • R - CUBA

3/19/64

MALVED

DuE Cre

930/14

ReBuirtel 12/13/63 captioned "Lee Harvey

• Oswald"

and your letter 1/22/64 captioned Assassination of President

Lre inforuation

Pursuant to instructions in Busirtel 12/13/63 you

should prepare an appropriate letterhead memorandun in this

matter suitable for dissemination, omitting the bureau

Include in letterhead nenorandum the contents

of: the:

letter received by Secret Service fron the bureau of

castons in Vontrer which was later furnished to the Bureau by

Secret Service.

Also set forth in letterhead memorandur the

results of the KOW inquiry conducted in this matter.

- Bureau

Ls englosing taroe sets os photographic prints made from thi

CP aliun furnished by vour letter of 1/22/64 and you shoul

make one set an enclosure to each of tuo letterhead menoranda

for dissemination to the President's Commission at the Bureau.

The third set of prints is for your file. /c

The album of photographs of

participants of the "Walk

for. Peace®

loaned to you by

ROIP is enclosed for return to

ROUP. (6)

Enclosures -

32/24 1 5668-sugl

DECLASSIFY ON:

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for review)

(IFK)

(70

NOTE:

Service on 12/11/63 furnished us with copy of a

letter of 11/29/63 from U. S, Bureau of Custons in Montreal,

Lee Harvey Oswald.

trom & man whom he belleved was

398-1992S

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

15

---

## Page 16

Letter to Ottawa

Ke:

LEC HARVEY OSHALD

105-82555

NOTE CONTINUED:

(determine if Oswald was in lontreal at alleged period.

RCMP [<

laguary negacive bit they did fumish the Legat with a photo

album of individuals participating in a "walk for Peace" in

Montreal on June 7 and 8, 1963.

Mr. Tremblay stated that the

individual he believed was Oswald was seen by him on the same

day he say six other individuals handing out "Cuba" lIterature.

he nas identiried by photographs two of the individuals as

passing out literature on the day in question. According to

RCHP, however, Tremblay could not point out in these photos

the person who saye him the pauphlet and who he believes. to

have been Uswald. We know that uswald was at work in dew unLeaR

on June 7

1963

frow tine punch cards of the Willian B. Reily

pany, New Orleans.

Commission will be furnished letterhead

chorani tron Legac on receipt of bureau

39X-1092S

HH 46064

DocId: 32319423

Page

16

---

