# docid-32296930

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10206

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-1453

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/11/1965

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ABR, ASSOC, MISUR, CONTIN, COSTELLO, CHARLES I., RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

19.1

DocId: 32296930

146

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hate).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

FD-143 (Rev.

4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM-NO, 10

3010-106

MIY 1962 EDITION

GS$, GEN. REG. NO. 27

8 in

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI

JUNE

1965

(Bufile 92-2717 ) DATE: February 11, 1904

FROM

ind

SUBJECT:

SAC,

Miami (92-139 Sub II)

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAE-OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title ANGELO BRUNO, aka

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office Miami

Symbol Number MM 837-CH

Type of surveiflance: (Iechnieata

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Winter residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization - 7/27/62

Initial Installation - 8/31/62

5: Previous and outer installaions on the same subject (rith dates and places):

None in Miami area

REG 33

92-2717-1453

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

NA

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

LEE!

Want A

3-3

C .

Is the surveillance on

Bureau®

a public coin operated telephoner 1s 1965

Miami

Registered Mail

WFK: amc

(2)

DocId: 32296930 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Note).

.. DATE: 11-11-2017

a :

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. Il a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

and location of each:

One 404B MATE in Florida room

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NA

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

(See attached page)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name,

agency) :

title and

No

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None, monitored

l at Miami

Central Technical Plant

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Five

-2 -

DocId: 32296930 Page 3

---

