# docid-32290242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/18/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10205-10018

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-261

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/11/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS, ACT, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32290242

Page 1

---

## Page 2

U: S. DEPARTMENI OF JUSTRO

Mr.

Tolson.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

JUL1 1 1961

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

FELLAYEE

Mr. DeLoach?

Mr. Evansk

Mr. Malone.

Mr.

Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

JFK Act 6 (4)

URGENT 7011-61

• REVIEVED

Mr. Tavel

BY ENUFK TASH FORDE: Trotter

7-55 PM CLM

ON

7.14-98 clab

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gaudy

TO DIRECTOR, FBI: 192-31821

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-373/ 2P

TUTAL DEALAL

GUD ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI

MANAGER, APARTMENT BUILDING AT ELEVENFIFTY NORTH

LAKE SHORE DRIVE, ADVISED THAT YESTERDAY MORNING TWO INTERNAL REVENUE

SERVICE /IRS/ AGENTS WERE AT THE BUILDING ATTEMPTING TO LOCATE ALEX.:

HE SAID THEY WERE LACKING IN DISCRETION IN THEIR INVESTIGATION BY

TALKING TO THE DOORMAN AND DESK CLERK AND OTHER PERSONNEL AT THE

BUILDING ABOUT THE MATTER OF GUS ALEX/S BUSINESS AND ACTIVITIES AND

CREATED A GENERAL DISTURBANCE AMONG THE PERSONNEL. HE SAID THEY

WERE UNSUCCESSFUL IN TALKING TO ALEX WHO LEFT THE BUILDING HURRIEDLY

WHILE THE IRS AGENTS WERE IN THE LOBBY OF THE BUILDING PCI SAID THAT

HE WAS NOT AT THE BUILDING AT THE TIME THE IRS AGENTS WERE

THERE AND THAT THEY LEFT A MESSAGE FOREX-107 REG-28

HEM TO CALL THEM; BUT THAT HE DID NOT WANT TO TALK TO THE IRS LAGENTS 261

DUE TO THEIR LACK

OF. DISCRETION IN CONDUCTING THEIR INVESTIGATION.

35 JUL 12 1961

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM IRS DISCLOSED THAT IRS AGENTS

JFK. Law

1(a)

END PAGE ONE:

1361

56 JUL 14 1961

NH 45679 DocId: 32290242 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• PAGE TWO

JFK Law 11(a)

CG SIX THREE FOUR THREE DASH & ASTERISK ADVISED

THAT HE HAD RECEIVED INFORMATION YESTERDAY FROM ALEX THAT A FEW DAYS

AGO ALEX WAS AT THE SAINT HUBERT/S GRILL AND WHEN ALEX LEFT THE GRILL

HE NOTED THREE POLICE OFFICERS OUTSIDE THE FRONT DOOR. INFORMANT "

STATED THAT ALEX WAS OF THE OPINION THAT THE OFFICERS HAD SURVEILLeD

AN ASSOCIATE TO THE GRILLO THE INFORMANT STATED THAT ALEX WAS, SUCCESSFUL

IN ELUDING THE SURVEILLANCE ON HIM.: ALEX ARMED AND DANGERSOUS WITH

SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

92-3182-261

NH 45679 DocId: 32290242 Page 3

---

