# docid-32179530

## Page 1

Released under the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Callection Act of 1992 144 USe 2107 Hated.

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10230-10240

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 100-10461-9259

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/06/1970

PAGES: 4

- SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-5652

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/12/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

BRosId: 32179530

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel. '

THIE!

11-14-2017

= CONTIONAL FORM NO

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11-6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

AND INTOR

CONFXENTIAL

Memorandum

MOSTETED EXCEED

WAZZE SEO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-22555)

11/6/70

TO

DATE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (105-3702)

(kUC)

DECLASSIRICATION AND/OR,

FROM :

51704188 22 1417/93 JFK

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

9-7.93

SUBJECT: IS - # - CUBA

Classified

9803-R20

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JBH 510-93

5BH 10-20-23

Declassify

OADR JEL

9403-Rad Made 1027-9301

Reference Wexico City letter 10/12/63 in OSWALi case;

Mexico City letter 7/30/58 and Havana letter 8/29/58 entitled,

"TERESA PROENZA; SM - C;" and Mexico City letter and LiM 10/5/70

entitled, "JORGE, LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA; IS - CUBA" (Bufile 105-115365) •

PROENZA's full name appears to be MARIA TERESA

PROENZA

PROENZA. She is currently said to be in havana, Cuba,

after spending several years in santa clara province under

house arrest.

She now appears tó have more freedom.

Mer brother ALVARO ISTANISLAO PROEMA

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,

and is the sabject of an 13 - CUBA

investigation.

TERESA PROENZA was the secretary of the Mexican

communist muralist DIEGO RIVERA prior to the revolution. She

became an employee of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City follOw-

ing the revolution.

She was described by her brother ALVARO

in 1965 as a "dedicated communist" and a "slave of the Cuban

communist government."

The following information is extracted from the letter

and LEM submitted by Mexico City on 10/5/70 concerning JORGE

LUIS ROJAS MENDOZA and the efforts of his family to arrangé

fom hy see MARGOT ROJAS MADORA to Leave Cuba and Join the

According to information furnished by

8/21/70, the RCJAS family has become very embittered asout

Cuba situation and Mrs. ROJAS, whose

full name is CARIDD

the

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668

1540/ 5e

6-Bureau

(1-105-135744) (ALVARO PROENZA PROENZA)

(1-64-29479) (TERESA PROENZA PROENZA)

(1-Foreign Liaison Desk)

(1-Philadelphia) (105-11156) (ALVARO PROENZA PROENZA) (Info)

3-Mexico City

(1-100-1834) (TERESA PROENZA PROENZA)

(1-105-0-9027) CALVARO PROENZA

PROENZA),

Ret: kvw

+=g9.

100-10,461-9259

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED t

INDEXED RE

...FILED.....

p. 1,2

NOV: ÷ 1970

AMAO

FBI - DALLAS

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

on the Peral Serine emberling POS,

ocId: 32179530

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 105-3702

pay 4219 do use or a beaute told a vet that.

police state 'and

a Cuban communist named JUAN MARINE is a friend of the family.

On one trip to Cuba, CACHTTA HOJAs asked him to look into the

situation of her sister TERESA PROENZA to see how it could

be straightened out.

MARINE recently visited Mexico "incognito"

and informed. the ROJAS that the situation now is extraordinarily

good but that TERESA was once under a death sentence because

she had dealt with LEE HARVEY OSWALD while assigned to the

Cuban Embassy prior to the assassination of JOHN F. KENNEDY:

told MEX 197 that MARINE warned them not to tell the Cuban :

In Mexico city that he had spoken to them about this

matter.

The source stated that JORGE ROJAS and his wife

do not know how to cope with the present situation.

They

fear going to Cuba and they are speaking out against the Cuban

revolution in a most forthright manner.

The bitterness di's-

played by ROJAS! wife far

gxceeds any that the source

can recall in the past.

The source stated that some years ago, as best he

could recall, he heard.LUANA LUISA PROPNZA

• CACHITA

who died some years ago, telling a similar story of how TERESA

PROENZA was somehow involved with LEE HARVEY OSWALD at the

Cuban Embassy.

At the time TERESA was employed at the embassy,

she lived with JUANA LUISA and another sister.

Within the

family it has always been said that JUANA LUISA worried herself

to death after TERESA was ordered to Cuba. (EX/H)

The Mexico City Office has conducted a review of

references to TERESA PROENZA especially those dealing with

• the

OSWALD investigation and it is noted that as set forth in

Mexico City letter to the Bureau 1/24/64 in the OSWALD case

MicX 18 and MeX 19J both of whom have

furnished reliable infor-

mation in the past, reported on 1/13/54

that, they had conversec

with ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA, Bufile 100-395934, who told then

of a conversation s

she held with TERESA PROÈNZA; the Cultural

Attache of the Cuban Embassy, in Mexico City.

According to

MORA, TERESA PROENZA had told her that OSWALD walked in "cold"

to the Cuban Embassy and the first person he talked to was

PROENZA. Since PROENZA did not speak English, she turned him

2

ocId: 32179530

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

MES 105-3702

While it is not clear from avilable information,

it would appear that PROTNzA was able to return irom cuba

10174(4) to mexico tollowing her dismissal and departure

By report dated 1/14/55 the CIA reported on the in-

vestigation by the Cuban government of old line communist

JOAQUIN ORDOQUI MASA. In this report it was indicated that

TERESA PROCNZA had beep

arrested at her home and was being

held incommunicaco.

A review of the foregoing material indicates that

TERESA PROENZA got into trouble with the Cuban government more

as a result of her criticism of the handling of the OSWALL

matter following the assassination of President KENNEDY than

because of anything she did when OSWALD visited the cuban

Embassy.

Fer harsh criticisn of high Cuban officials (the

Ambassador and Foreign Minister) was apparently well known

embassy and hardly helped her case. Kit fails to CH

indicate that she did anything for CSWALn that would substantiate

the remarks made by JORGE ROJAS and his wife to mex 137 that

E]U

TERESA PROENZA had nearly been executed because

during OS ALD's visit to the Cuban Imbassy in 1903 In the

absence of additional information ragarding this activity, no

further investigation is contemplated at this time.

it is

noted that It is not feasible to directly interrogate once

ROJAS or his wife.

However MaX 197 will closely follow thislAu

matter with then and any arditional, significant developments

will be called promptly to the attention of the Bureau.

One information copy is being furnished to Philadelphia

EXCu

the ROJAS family in Mexico City and CACHIT remarked that

ALVARO said he was surrounded by "gusanos" (referring

Cuban exiles in a derogatory manner) in Philadelphia.o

DocId: 32179530

Page 4

---

