# docid-32310570

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10305-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

137-9761-1ST NR 12

Released under the Johr

F. Kennedy

ssassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/15/1965

3

JAN, AKA, ADMIN REVIEW, CRIM INFORMANT PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/17/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

74 53932

DocId: 32310570

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Tolson

Bolmont.

Moler

Delanch.

Casper

Callahun .

Comrad

fell

Giole

Hosen

Sullivals-=

Tavel!

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy .

SAC, Miani (137-573)

11/15/65

Director, FBI (66-2542-1-29)

ADHINISTRATIVE REVIEW

CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

According to the

Durcau's records, your office

had 133 approved informants as of October 30, 1965.

This

reflects a decrease of 7 informants during the past 6

months.

According to your most

recent semiannual letter,

at the present time your office has 200 individuals under

development which aro considered as potential future

informants.

The personnel in your office handling criminal

matters should cive: these potential informants assignments

wherever possible, and they should be contacted as frequently

as time permits with the expectation that several of them

will soon begin to furnish sufficiont information to

qualify them as active productive informants.

In May, 1965, Naples, Florida, was designated as

• resident agency within the Miami Division. To date no

informants have been developed in this area.

You should

request the parsonnel in this resident agency to concentrate

on the criminal intomant program so that infornants will

be doveloped in the near future.

Without informants this

resident agency may concoivably be handicapped in its

ability to be aware at all tines of the over-all crime

picture.

At the present time your office is operating 5

potential informants who have been opened and in a pending

status for over one year.

It is suggosted that these 5

individuals be closely followed and given assigments to

sepon parrant further coutacts on the part of your

-

137-9761 Min 897 Cr

1

137-1253S. (MM

1036-C)

137-12724

(MM

1019-C)

1

1

-

-

-

137-12454

(MM

1032-C)

137-12006

(MM

1016-C)

137-12702

(MM

1047-C)

137-12754

(MM

1048-C)

#: 137-9761-

NOT RECORDED

198 NOK 17 1965

1

137-12786

( MM

1052-C)

1

-

--

137-11761

(MM

1005-C)

137-12052

( MM

1020-C)

200

ABF: f1s

• (14)

MAIL ROOM I

TELETYPE UNIT

DEMIGATE, VENOME

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED,

5668 SL0/KSR

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 9/0/80 BYSPsCic/OL)

01/026

27L

RIGINAL FILED

HH 53932

DooId:32310570

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lotter to Milani

По :

Maninistrative Roview

Agont perconnol. At the end of 20 days you should

ro-evnluate thoir productivity and if they have not furnished

any information of value you should consider

deleting them

no notivo potontial informonts and have your porsonnol

concentrate on

the developmont of new individuals who

can furnich more valuable information.

It these PCIs

continuo to react unproductively for the nozi 20 days

but

are worthy of some cousiderntion, you may, of course,

designato them,as sources of information.

In accordance with your recommendations MN 1005-C

and MM 1020-C may be continued for an additional 90 days.

At tho end of that time

submit your recommendations for their

retention.

If you rocommend that they be retained,

furnish.

the Bureau a brief resume of the worthwhile information

turnished so that they may be evaluated here at the burcau.

According to a roviow at the Buronu, nil 807-C, MN 1056-C,

ММ 1019-С, ММ 1032-С, МИ 2016-С, ММ

1042-C, MM 1043-C and

IM 1052-C have not furnished any vorthwile information

during the past 6 months. Accordingly, it is suggested that

those informants be siven speclic assiguments and closely

followed until the submission of your noxt semiannual letter.

In the event they do not jurnish any vorthwhile information

within this next 6 months' perion, thoy should be doleted

oad the Dureau approprintely advised.

The sintistical accomplishments credited to your

informants so far this fiscal yoar axe all higher than the

same poriod in last fiscal. year with the excontion of

merchandise recovered in Burenu casos and merchandiso

recovered by other fedoral agencies. It is hoped that by

Irojuont contacts with your intormants additional enthusiasn

can be instillod in them and that in turn will rosult in

assisting your offico in bringing up the two above-mentioned

statistics.

- 20 -

NW 53932 DooId: 32310570 Page 3

---

