# docid-32307813

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10171

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-173

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/06/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, MEETING, MIST CLUB CORP, REL, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307813

Page 1

446

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

Mr. Tolson-

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Parso

TRAL BUREAU UE INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 6

1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Mohr-.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

Ir. DeLose

Mr. Evan

Mr. Malohe

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room..

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

URGENT 4-5-51

IATF

10 DIRECTOR, 5BI 182-31711

FROM SÁG, CHICAGO 192-349/ 4F

8-50

PM CLM

WREC

SANEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, ARO

DAILY SUMMARY.

RECORDS, ILL. STATE LIQUOR COMMISSION, CHICAGO, REFLECI NARDULLI AS

SECRETARY OF MIST CLUB CORFO, CHICAGO. NOTED THAT MIST CLUB HAS BEEN

ALLEGED IN FAST TO BE UNDER GIANCANA-S CONTROL AND IS PLACE FREQUENTED

EY GIANCANA, NAME OF FRANK NARDILE CARRIED AS LICENSEE OF

AMBER LIGHT

LOUNGEL CICERO, ILLO ANDER LIGHT MENTIONED FREVIOUSLY AS MIETING

FLACE OF GIANCANDA FRANCINARPULL, DRE, STONE PARK, ILLO, INTERE

VIEWED THIS DATE AND ADMITIED THAT HE IS SO CALLED SECRETARY OL TISI

CLUE, BUT STATED

HE KNOWS NOTHING OF OFERATION, DID NOT CONTRIBUTE

Cluk

TLL

ANY MONEY TOWARD IT, AND DOES NOT KNOW NAME OF OTHER OFFICERS.

DATE

60-6-84

BYSPSE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SAYS IS NOT ACQUAINTED WITH GIANCANA, DOES NOT KNOW NAME OF OPERATOR

MIST, AND HAS ONLY ELEN IN ESTADLISHMENT ONLY ONE OR TWO TIMES.

SPATED HE HAS NEVER HEARD OF AMBER LIGHI LOUNGE, CICERO,

OWLEDGE OF BEING CARRIED AS LICENSEE.

STATED THAT AbOUT

PYEAR AND A MALE AGO, A PERSON WHOSE NAME NARDULLI STATES QUOTE I

EV-T REMEMBER END QUOTE, CAME TO HIS HOUSE AND ASKED TO SIGN

556 AR 1 8196 THE EXTENT OF HIS KOKLEDGE OF NIST NOTE FEAR

FIECE OF FAPER STATING THAT HE WAS SECRETARY OF TIR AMBSIS 196ARDULLI

DocId: 32307813

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection At or 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

PROJECTIONIST AT ONE SIXTY PER WEEK. NOTED THAT

NIRAL ENVELOPI

IS OWNED BY DETOLVE FAMILY, BROTHERS IN LAW OF GIANCANA.

INFO IN

DAILY SUMMARY OF APRIL FIVE LAST RE CHICAGO SIX THREE FOUR THREE

DASH C ASTERISK STATING THAT GIANCANA IS QUOTE LONER AND STAYS OUT

UNTIL THREE OR FOUR IN MORNING END QUOTE IS BELIEVED TO BE REFERRING

TO GIANCANA BEHAVIOUR AND HABITS WHILE IN LAS VEGAS, SINCE UNKNOWN

CONVERSANIS ARE PROBABLY FROM LAS VEGAS, OR HAVE JUST RETURNED FROM

THERE. CHICAGO SIX

OUR FIVE SEVEN DASI FE ADVISED IRAT GLANCANA:

COUNTS AMOUNG HIS CLOSESI ASSOCIATES, FRANK SINATRA, DEAN MARTIN

AND. PETER LAWFORD. CITED INSTANCES WHEREBY

ARMORY LOUNGE WAS CLOSED TO PUBLIC, SINATRA AND MARTIN APPEARED

AND GAVE PERFORMANCES TO SELECT GROUP OF GIANCANA ASSOCIATES. INFOR-

MANT STATES THAT IN LATTER PART OF DEC., SIXTY, SHE WROTE LETTER TO

GIANCANA, OUTLINING GRIEVANCES, PARTICULARLY RE DISAFPEARANCE OF

FASEL, TOLD GIANCANA THAT IF HE SO DESIRED, HE COULD COME TO HER HOUSE

ATD ATAKE BACK EVERYTHING HE GAVE HER. DELIVERED LETTER TO|CARMEN

RMORYLQUNGE

FANG A FERVISOUNGE; WAS TOLD LATER BY FANELLI THAT LETTER WAS

RECEIVED BY GIANCANA. GIANCANA DID NOT REPLY TO LETTER, AND HAOT

MENTIONED IT. ONLY CONTACT WITH GIANCANA SUBSEQUENT TO LETTER

WAS AT ARMORY LOUNGE, JAN., LAST, HOWEVER, SHE DID NOT CONVERSE WITH

HIM. STATED LAST PERSONAL CONTACT WITH HIM WAS DURING LATTER PART

OF NOV., WHEN HE AND BLASI CAME TO HER HOME, AND GIANCANA ADVISED

THAT HE WOULD SEE HER AFTER CHRISTMAS, SAID HE WAS GOING OUT OF

TOWN. SUBSEQUENT TO THAT, SHE WAS VISITED BRIEFLY BY BLASI, WHO

END FAGE THREE

DooId:32307813 Page 3

---

