# docid-32290917

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10193

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-635

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/09/1962

4

LST, WHEREABOUTS, NEG, ACT, TELCAL, ASSOC, MURDER,

ANASTASIA, ABLERT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: • Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DEA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NN 45966 DocId: 32290917 Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-561

Transmit the following in

Via

A IRTEL

F B'I

Date: 11/9/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO I

TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA,

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: TAMPA)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Re Weekly Airtel Summary, dated 11/2/62; and Miami

teletype to Bureau 11/8/62.

New York advised on 10/30/62 Detective WILLIAM GRAFF,

18th Squad, New York City PD, furnished information that the

U. S. Dept. of Justice had furnished the information to the

District Attorney's Office in connection with the investigation

Of ALBERT ANASTASIA that the Federal Bureau of Narcotics had

some information of possible assistance. GRAFF ascertained

the Narcotics Agent with information to

be OSCAR LEON DAVIS,

+.

presently a Deputy U. S. Marshal, Orlando, Fla. DAVIS' informant

was CARLOS de TORRES of

Miami, Fla., who thereafter, upon

interview, related the individuals who were allegedly involved M

in the killing of ANASTASIA.

GRAFF thereafter interviewed

one of the individuals who admitted he had told persons that

he worked for ANASTASIA, but told GRAFF there was no truth in

these statements.

This

individual was subsequently characterized

as a "bum" whose information could not be considered reliable.

3 - Bureau

2 - Jacksonville (92-7)

2

- Miami (92-88).

REC- 30

2 - New York (92-846)

2 - Tampa

SJL: dmb

(11)

DEA

FLEVIEWED.

PSY AWORK TASK FORCE

92-2781-135

BUL * X3

& NOV 13 .u0c

040027/26/95 PB/Rw/TH

DO RELENGE IN FULL

FAEY

EX RELEASE IN PAR

Approv di€

1060

Sent

_M.

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45966 DocId:32290917 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Detective GRAFF further advised he closed out this phase of

his investigation as to the ANASTASIA killing as being based

on unreliable information.

GRAFF noted that it was a policy

of the District Attorney's Office in New York County that

no indictment would be issued until that office is ready to

apprehend those named in the indictment and therefore, no

Federal UFAP process is contemplated in connection with the

ANASTASIA homicide.

He said he would notify the New York

Office of any indictment returned in this ANASTASIA case.

PCI

I (protect) advised 11/6/62 that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE walked

into the Columbia Restaurant, alone,

at 11:45 A.M., 11/6/62.

He stayed but a few minutes and left

alone.

His whereabouts were unknown after he was observed

having a shoeshine at a shoeshine parlor across Broadway

from the Columbia Restaurant.

Efforts to locate subject in the vicinity of the Columbia

Restaurant; at his father-in-law's store; Tony's Fish Market;

his father-in-law's residence,

2009 10th Ave.; at his residence,

2505 Bristol Ave.; at the offices of his attorney FRANK RAGANO;

at his mother's residence, 3010 N. Blvd.; and at the residences

and

l hang outs. of his associates on 11/6/62 met with negative

results.

+.

On 11/7/62, DANA CESSNA, Reporter, "Tampa Times", a daily'

newspaper in

Tampa, Fla., advised SA JOHN D. MEDAGLIA

that

a source had told him that SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. had returned

to Tampa, Fla. on the morning of 11/6/62 and

had been in the

office of Attorney PAT WHITAKER, 308 Tampa St., who has represented

his family in the

past.?

On 11/6/62, TP 79-C* made available the information

that JOE RAYMOND DIEZ was interested in contacting subject's

unlisted home telephone 876-2207, but source was unable to

obtain any further data.

Daily checks and spot fisurs from 11/5 to 11/8/62 of

subject's residence and contacts with sources and informants

were negative relative to subject's location. Furthermore,

contact with sources at the Columbia Restaurant established

subject has not returned since being observed at 11:45 A.M.,

11/6/62 at the Columbia Restaurant.

No new vehicle has been observed at subject's residence

other than the vehicles used by the family, such as the 1962

2

OTHER 4

NW 45966 DocId: 32290917 Page 3

---

