# docid-32298631

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10222-10407

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-543

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/07/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JRO, FRIARS CLUB, ASSOC, TELCAL, RES, SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45945 DocId: 32298631 Page 1 •

12

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev., 13m13-56)

FBI

Date:

12/7/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113-C)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka.

AR

LA 4268-C advised that on Monday, 12/2/63,

ROSSELLI arrived at the Friar's Club, Beverly Hills,

California, at about 5:00 PM. He walked into the

third floor room with IRVING LEFF, part owner of the

Hotel Lost Frontier Corporation, but source does not

know if LEFF and ROSSELLI arrived at the club together.

ROSSELLI received a telephone call from an

unknown person who apparently told ROSSELLI about someone

who had

• been in an accident as ROSSELLI told this

person

to send

. some flowers for ROSSELLI.

HERMAN SPITZEL was also at the Friar's Club and

asked ROSSELLI to make a telephone call and "straighten

out"

some

unknown matter.

LA 4268-C stated that ROSSELLI was partly

intoxicated when he arrived at the Friar's Club and

continued to drink upon his arrival and was in a jovial

mood.

The same informant said that ROSSELLI was at

the Friar's Club on Thursday, 12/5/63. When source arrived

at about 3:15 PM ROSSELLI was having a conference with

MORRIE SUESS, a motion picture producer and director.

ROSSELLI waS

still at the club

at about 4:15 PM when source

left.

REG. 19

Bureau (AM-REGISTERED)

- Las Vegas (AM-REGISTERED)

1 - Los Angeles

92-3267543

HFD: srb

(590)

4 DEC 9 100u

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Pe

Specjal

in Charge

NW 45945 DocId:32298631 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113-C

Neighborhood source advised ROSSELLI stayed at his

Los Angeles apartment on Thursday night for the first time

during the current week.

On the morning of 12/6/63 he was

observed leaving his apartment house in his 1963 Ford Thunderbird

and proceed towards Beverly Hills, California.

PCI, advised on 12/6/63 that JUDITH

CAMPBELL,

friend of ROSSELLÍ and of SAM GIANCANA of Chicago,

returned to the Beverly Cress Hotel on 12/3/63 and that

stayed at the

VICKIE LOCKWOOD, a girl friend of ROSSELI'4/63. PCI said

Beverly Crest Hotel the nights of 12/3 and

he observed ROSSELLI at the Hotel on 12/5/63 but he has no.

on 2273/13 63

information that ROSSELLI visited either of the above women.

OTHER 4

- 2 -

HW

45945

DocId: 32298631 Page 3

---

