# docid-32306131

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10289-10261

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-2249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NK

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/17/1968

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEETING, OLD LINE BOSSES, MM, LAMANDRI,

MARCO MIMI, REL, BUSS, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306131

Page 1

53

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kepnedy Astassil abnecosds Collection Act of 1992 (41 1 2107 Note).

DATE

JAN 1 7 1968

WASHINGTON-- 02--

ENCIPHERED

NEW YORK - -01-- 4 30 PM BAG

URGENT

117-68

TO DIRECIOR (92-6854), MIAMI (92-853), SAN DIEGO (92-229),

NEW YORK (92-2300)

SAN DIEGO VIA WASHINGTON

PLAINTEXT

FROM NEWARK (92-1203)

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan_

Kr.

Conrad,

ME. Gale/

Mr.

Felt.

Mr. Roser

Mr. Tat

ryan

Mr.

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy_

LA COSA NOSTRA. AR-CONSPIRACY.

REBUAIRTEL JANUARY TWELVE

NK ONE EIGHT TWO SEVEN C ON JANUARY SEVENTEEN ADVISED

THAI MARCO"MIMI" LA MANDRI, OF SAN DIEGO, WAS NOT GOING TO

MIAMI ON OR ABOUT JANUARY NINETEEN AS PLANNED IN THAT HE FELT IT

WOULD CAUSE TOO MUCH ATTENIION. HIS SON, JOHN LA MANDRI, MAY BE

GOING IN MIMI'S PLACE AND WILL STAY AT THE EDEN ROC HOTEL. JOHN,

A FORMER NEW YORK ATTORNEY, IS "CLEAN ON-THE SURFACE", MARRIED

TO JACK DRAGNA'S DAUGHTER, WELL ACQUAINTED WITH MIMI'S ASSOCIATES

AND ACTIVITIES AND FRONTS MIMI'S BUSINESS INTERESTS.

ANOTHER SON, JOSEPH LA MANDRI, IS IN MIAMI SINCE

JANUARY FOURTEEN, STAYING AT THE FOUNIAINBLEU HOTEL, IN CONNECTION

WITH A MEETING OF LOCAL FOUR ZERO TWO, AFL-CIO CULINARY ALLIANCE

AND HOTEL EMPLOYEES UNION, OF WHICH HE IS VICE PRESIDENT AND

BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE. Lis i0l

REG 32

un 600.5%

a 21.49

INFORMANT ALSO STATED MIMI WAS IN NEW YORK AREA SEVERAL

M MONTHS AGO IN CONTACI WITH A NORPHIA SORINTINO (PH), OF NEWARK,

DESCRIBED BY INFORMANT AS AN OLD LINE LON MEMBER ABOUT SIXTY FIVE

* JAN 22 1968

END

• PAGE ONE

XEROX

JAN 1968

BEL

AYED TO

DocId! 32306131 Page 2

---

