# docid-32292658

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10209-10434

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-811, 812

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/12/1962

2

SGI, FISUR, MISUR, ARMORY LOUNGE -

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/21/1998

, OPÈNING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RADIOGRAM

v9.1

DocId: 32292658

338

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act af 1992 141 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rov. 3-5-62)

1

DECODED COPY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohy -

Callahan

Conrad P

DeLoact

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED

7-13-62

10

DIRECTOR

"JUNE

FROM SAC CHICAGO

131950

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

RE CG 6468-0%. IT IS NOTED IN YESTERDAY'S SUMMARY

RE-ENTRY WAS MADE AND MITE UNIT INSTALLED. SUBSEQUENT

INVESTIGATION REVEALED THAT REMODEL ING PROCESS RESULTED

tox-

IN COMPLETE REWIRING OF LOCATION, INCLUDING REROUTING OF

TELEPHONE CABLING. TELEPHONE FRAME PREVIOUSLY UTILIZED NO

LONGER IN OPERATION AND IT APPEARS THAT IN ORDER TO ACTIVATE

SOURCE IT IS NECESSARY TO RE-ENTER LOCATION SO THAT UNIT

MAY BE ACTIVATED FROM WITHIN RATHER

BY WORKING FROM OUTSIDE OF BUILDING.

THAN ATTRACT EXPOSURE

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

6:41 PM

EX 100

REM

92317/ 817

25 JUL 23

1962

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER, SIT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DITEN. 23:84 BY SPSe56/Cs

If the intelligence containedlin the

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292658 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

xx Teletype

DEFERRED 7-12-62

TO/DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

3:34 PM JLS

121618

"JUNE"

JUNE.

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY. RE ARMORY LOUNGE AND RE INSTALLATION OF

CG 6486-C% ENTRY MADE INSTANT, ONE MITE UNIT INSTALLED, NOT

YET OPERATIVE DUE TO MECHANICAL PROBLEMS NOT PRESENT AT TIME

OF ORIGINAL INSTALLATION.

REMODELLING PROCESS AT SITE CHANGED

TELEPHONE WIRING SYSTEM.

ORIGINAL MEETING ROOM NOW A STORAGE

ROOM CONTAINING LINENS, MEAT LOCKER, DEEP FREZE, ETC. SURVEY

INDICATES GIANCANA, ET AL, PROBABLY MEET AT REAR OF DINING ROOM

WHERE LARGE BOOTH IS SET UP WITH TELEPHONE EXTENSIONS:•

COVERACE SUITABLE FOR THIS SPOT AND REAR STORAGE ROOM UN

DURING PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE PRIOR TO ENTRY, NUMEROUS CARS

NOTED, AMONG THEM BLASI'S AND GIANCANA'S. INDIVIDUAL RESEMBLING

GIANCANA OBSERVED APPARENTLY MAKING CLANDESTINE MEETING ON STREET,

THEN SEEN ENTERING ARMORY CARRYING SMALL VALISE. (U

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

T2371

811

RECEIVED:

EX 100

4:41 PM

CTF,

25 JUL 23 1962

CC--MR. SULLIVAN

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

HENEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau,

DATELE BE NISERTE COLLE

s suggested that it be suic

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

SHEC

DocId: 32292658

Page 3

---

