# docid-32300773

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10108

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-401762-150

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: - YEE, EDWIN

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/06/1968

12

RCF, SHF, ASSOC, RES, EMP, SUBV ACT, CP, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

09.1

DocId: 32300773

Page 1

77

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mobe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

NY 100-107383

ADMINISTRATIVE (continued)

Information received from Direction de la surveillance

au territoire (DsT), French Domestic Counterespionage service,

classified "Confidential" disclosed MANDRAKE is unknown at

the above-mentioned hotel.

DST also had no infamation

regarding "Madwoman". (C)

NY 4047-S* advised on 4/2/68, SUSAN FRANK in a

conversation with subject discussed an article apppekins

in the NY Post, apparently the article, entitled

Jails 'Renegade' Westerners"

, which appeared in the April

1, 1968, edition of the paper.

SUSAN FRANK stated it concerned a friend subject

had met in London.

The friend allegedly was small, but hac

a tail wife; they were supposedly arrested for espionage.

Subject apparently was surprised stating "that's a little

bit of a block buster" - "that almost might be worth a trip"

They discussed the possibility of a trip in the near future

or awaiting future developments prior to any decision.

MrS. EVA MARIE RUIZ-CATARINEU, Air France (AF) on

Airways, Flight 001 departing

The agents who observed subject and his wife at

the office of the

"China Daily News" on 7/7/68, were ROLAND

G. KEARNS, ROBERT L. PENCE and EDWIN YEE.

When observed on that date subject gave no indication

of being in other than good health.

NY 4047-S# has

furnished no indication subject is in other than good health.

Inasmuch as SUSAN FRANK, wife of subject, is subject

of pending NYO case and information developed concerning

subject generally arises as a result of investigation of the

activities of his wife, NYO is placing case in a closed status

to avoid duplication.

Information concerning subject will be channeled

to subject's case file and all significant data pertaining

to subject will be furnished the Bureau.

CONFIDENTIAL

-B-

100-401762-150

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32300773 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

NY 100-107383

ADMINISTRATIVE (continued)

Review of file regarding subject disclosed his

subversive activities and potential dangerousness remain

the same and there is no indication which would change

his security index classification.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 4047-S#

File Where Located

100-42479

NY T-2

CG

5824-S*

T-3

BA

975-578X41

IM Y

• T-4

NY 4033-S*

Characterization of SUSAN H.

FRANK

Characterization of SUSAN H.

FRANK

Characterization of JAMES and

ANN LEE

NY T-5

Former NY 1045-s

NY T-6

NY 2009-S

Characterization of IRA

GOLLOBIN

Characterization of IRA

GOLDOBIN

NY T-7

ANY 559-547e/41

Characterization of ROSE

COE

NY T-8

100-110803

DANIEL TONERY

Central Check Files

First National City Bank

399 Park Avenue, NYC

(By request)

L'

CONFIDENTIAL

-C-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32300773 Page 3

---

