# docid-32301355

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10190

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-339

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

YEE, EDWIN

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/28/1969

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

SHE, RCF, RES, BKG, EMP, TRA, SDS, POLIT ACT, ASSOC,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/10/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32301355

Page 1

138

---

## Page 2

elease

DATE:

MOt

T99Z 141 USC 2107

note).

FD-263. (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

SUSAN HEILIGMAN 1

FRANK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

NAR

2

8

1969

INVESTIGATIVE

3/2163/67

PERIOD

110/69

REPORT MADE BY

EDWIN YEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

bip

REFERENCE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

IS-CH

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT: K 9-22-97

SUD/KSA

10-2 (7171)

New York report of SA DANIEL

FLYNN, 3/1/68.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

(S)

On 2/5/69, ANY 6474-Siwas

contacted re subject by

SA JOHN FRANCIS

CONWAY,

with negative results.

On 2/14/69, "NY 6476-5

and 2/17/69, NY 6000-S,

were contacted re subject by SA

• ALBERT E. FALLER, with

negative results.

(JFKs 6/36/98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/Ga

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X @JC6)

CONVIC.

AUTO

FUG

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

NONE

ACQUIT-

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

SHOWN

OSITIED

FOR COUNCINED

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES ONO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

B-Bureau (100-339235) (RM)

1-Secret Service,

NYC

(RM)

1-Chicago l

100- 41353) (AHC)| (INFO)

RM)

2-New York (100-42479)

640

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

RAO, State CIA, US$5

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1001339235-337

REC /109

• AIR 1 1969

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

4-15-69

Trufita

4APRT 81969*

SECR

11/30/94/

HECHO DOW ILETERNA

385 mpe/ses

GPO: 1968 0 - 299-885

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301355 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John 1. Remedy Assassination Reeords Collection Aet of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREU

NY 200-42479

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D:

The agents who observed subject and her husband,

RICHARD C. FRANK, at the office of the

"China Daily News",

on July 7, 1968, were ROBERT L. PENCE, ROLAND G. KEARNS

and EDWIN YEE.

It is noted the enclosed report mentions numerous

contacts between subject and IRA GOLLOBIN and JAMES and/or

ANN LEE.

The substance of the contacts with GOLLOBIN were

generally to make appointments to meet either at subject's

apartment or elsewhere. The substance of the contacts with

the LEEs, principally ANN, was to make an appointment to

meet or merely to engago

in conversation of a social nature.

There are no Bureau approved characterizations

for the Coalition For An Anti-Imperalistic Movement, Veterans

and Reservists For Peace in Vietnam or the Youth International

Party, mentioned in the report.

subject in connection with this matter.

INFORMANTS:

Source

Location

NY T-1

ROBERT ELLEX, Superintendent,

110 Christopher St., NY, NY,

(by request)

100-42479

NY T-2

NY 694-S*

Characterization of

RICHARD C. FRANK

NY T-3

NY 4047-S

100-42479

Direction du la Surveillance (5)

de territoire (DST), France 100-42479

-B-

COVER PAGE

918-10188

DocId: 32301355 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. 'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 100-42479

INFORMANTS CONT'D:

Source

Location

NY T-5

Service de Documentation

Exterioure et de Contre-

(s)

Espionnage (SDECE),

France

100-42479

NY T-6

i-sion Socurity ServicefS) 200-42479

NY T-7

MANUAL

NEVES, Owner,

Blue Mill Tavern, NYC,

(by request)

NY T-8

NY 6019-S

559-5*0141

1 - 1000

H-61-S AM

NY T-11

Former NY 1045-5

NY T-12

NY 2009-S

100-42479

Characterization of

THOMAS GORDON WODETZKI

Characterization of

CHARLES "BOB"

COE and

ROSE COE

Characterization of

WILLIAM H. HINTON

Characterization of

IRA GOLLOBIN

Characterization

of

IRA GOLLOBIN and MAUD

RUSSELL

NY 340872]

-C-

COVER PAGE

SECRED

988010868

DocId: 32301355 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Release

DATE

D-30,5

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

1-14-201

Rev.

-2-66

SECRET

NY 100-42479

1.

[x] Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

2.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

3.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and Form FD-122

has been submitted to the Bureau.

4. Ex A suitable photograph Ex is ]is not available.

Date photograph was taken

5.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are

6.

(X) This report is classified Secret

because

It contains information from NY 4047-S*, a highly

sensitive source, who furnished information on a

continuing basis

and because information from

Mus was so classified.

7. 8 Subiet veriously interviewed (elates 4/5/59, 3/13/62, 3/28/62, 12/12/62

7 Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason).

she has been uncooperative on several occasions

8.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria and a letter

has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the

Security Index card.

9. I This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the Security Index

criteria and it continues to fall within such criteria because

State rIP ABBOT LUCE and JUDITH ANN WARDEN, both

admitted former members of Pui, have identified

subject as being closely associated with PLP and

a regular writer for "Challenge", a PLP publication.

10.

[X Subject's SI card (X] is 0

is not tabbed Detcom.

a Subject's activities warrant Detcom tabbing because (state reasons)

NY 4112-S*

advised on 8/20/63, that subject is known

to and has been in contact with TANG MING-CHOU, a

person reported to be head of political intelligence

in English-speaking cantries

for the Chinese People's

Republic.

-EX-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32301355 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released wnder the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Ait DE 1992 (11 USE 2107 Motel.

•DATE: 11-14-2017

F2:204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

WRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

ALL INFORMIATION CONTAINED

FEEIN LO UNCRASSIFIED

EXCRET MERE SHOWN

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

I-Secret Service, NYC (RM)

EDWIN YEE

March 28, 1969

100-42479

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

Office:

Bureau File #:

New York, New York

100-339235

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

Subject continues to reside at 110 Christopher St.,

NYC, with her husband RICHARD CS FRANK. She continues

to claim to be a writer.

12/20682/ an ale lecture to Sa roug at on telen,

12/20/68-1/10/69.

niversity concerning, Cultural Revolution on, 10/1/68. Subject

in contact with IRAGOLLOBIN, JAMES and ANN LEE, CHARLES anc

ROSESCOE, WILLIAM H. HINTON, MORTSCHEER, MARK JOEL SCHER and

MAUD RUSSELL.

She is in possession of a 1968 membership card

for SDS.

_P-

DETAILS:

Residence and Employment

NY T-I advised on March 10, 1969, subject continues

to reside in Apartment 30, 110 Christopher Street, New York,

New York, with her husband, RICHARD C. FRANK; she continues

to claim to be a writer, operating from the above-mentioned

address.

1/30/84

Grassified by.

spemac/ea

Declassify an OAREn-

SECRET

•GROUP D

Exeludea From automatic

downgrading and

declassitication

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

#.U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967-0-273-878

DocId: 32301355 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

ECRE

NY 100-42479

NY I-2, on August 15, 1966, advised

RICHARD C. FRANK is

staunch pros

Chinese Communist.

Travel

Special Agents (SAS) of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI), on May I, 1968, observed subject and

her husband boarding British Overseas Airlines Corporation

(BOAC), flight 503, departing John F. Kennedy International

Airport, New York, for Nassau.

On April 29, 1968, NY I-3, had advised subject and

her husband had reservations at the Hotel Beachview, Nassau.

NY It, a confidential source abroad, advised

subject arrived in Paris, France, on August 2, 1968, and

registered at the Hotel Lutetia, 43 Boulevard

Paris, where she remained until August 8, 1968, at which

time she departed without leaving a forwarding address.

Souree advised she kept irregular hours in connection

with her arrivals and departures from the hotels ›

On September 20, 1968, NY I-5, a confidential

source abroad, advised subject,

also known

jas, Susan Warren,

while in Paris, intended to visit HELENE. MARCHISIO, & member of th

the Franco-Chinese Association of Friendship (Association des

Amities Franco-Chinoises) who resided at 32 rue Maurice

ripoche, Paris; JAcK BeLDeN, hotel de suede, Is Quai saint-

Michel, Paris; PERDITA HUSTON CHAMPEY, Spouse of a French France

52 rue Gay-Lyssac,

Joseph marchisis canentele

France

NY T-4,

on December 5, 1968,

ANARCHISIO, -

nee

LE MONNIER de GOUVILLE, claims to be an economist by occupation

and is married to JOSEPH MARCHISIO, a history and geography

professor. The MARCHISIOs are known as militant pro-Chinese

and members of the Association des Amities Franco-Chinoises

(AAFC) •

JOSEPH MARCHISIO is the treasurer of the AAFC, while

his wife handles the secretarial work,

They have been

contact with members of the Chinese

Commanist diplogatic (3)

32

rue Maurice Ries

=2=

Paris, France

SECRET

DocId: 32301355 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act. or 1992 (14 U5C 2107-Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

establishment in Paris. During the Summer of 1967, HELENE

MARCHISIO travelled to

• Communist China, as

the head of the

delegation of AAfc members.(e)

NY T=5, on November 10, 1967,

advised the

AAFC. is controlled by the masterminds of

the French Communist Movement (Marxist-

reminist) and bad lauched a masa s

called "Eyes Turned Toward China"

Source stated CHAMPEY is a United States (US)

citizen, who, until 1960, was employed as a secretary for

the Tunisian Secretariat of Information.

She subsequently

was employed as a medical assistant in Algeria.

Reportedly,

she is presently employed as a jounalist for "Time"

and

"Life", Paris (G)

Source further stated NACEUR DJÉLLOULI, believed

1s a lunisian citizen, and

Jackkellen

JACK ALFRED BELDEN 1s la US citizen, born February 3.

1910. New York, and is described as a writer, whose residence

in the US, was 204 Woolland Avenue, New Jersey 5)

NY I=6, a confidential source abroad, advised

subject arrived in London, on August 8, 1968, and reportedly

WAS

to stay at the Cadogan Hotel,

London, England, where

she remained until August 15, 1968.(S-

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), New

York City (NYC), advised subject returned to New York, on

August 15, 1968.

NY I-3,

on July 25, 1968, prior to subject's

departure

for Paris and London, had

advised subject had

made inquiry concerning the names of people at the offices

of the Students For a Democratic Society (SDS) whom she

could confer with about some of the students who might

have

been involved in the events that ocurred in Paris,

about a month previous.

She indicated she knew some

people in Paris, whom she described as being "activists",

but desired to be certain she would be able to contaet

people concerning the events.

SECRETU

DocId: 32301355

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NEC

NY 100-42479

A characterization of the SDS appears

in the appendix of this report, attached

hereto.

Mrs. P. BURKART, Air France (AF), NYC, on December 19,

1968, advised subject and her husband had

reservations to depart

New York, for Mexico City, via AF, on December 20, 1968.

On the same date Miss S. WEINER, United Travel

Service,

NYC, advised the FRANKs had reservations at the

Hotel Del Paseo, Mexico City, during the period December 18,

1968, to January 16, 1969.

SAS of the FBI, on December 20, 1960, observed the

FRANKs boarding AF 017, departing John F. Kennedy International

Airport for Mexico City.

INS, Miami, Florida, advised the FRANKs arrived

from Mexico, on January 10, 1969; they subsequently departed

Miami for New York.

Political Sympathies of Subject

the name

Susan Warren, is in regular receipt of the

NY T=6, on March 20, 1968, advised subjec peking

Review, from the Chinese Diplomatic Mission in London (5)

It is noted the "Peking Review" is a

magazine published in Peking, China,

for dissemination outside China.

NY T-3 advised, on April 1, 1968, subject appeared

to be vary concerned about an article entitled,

"Renegade" Westemers", which appeared in the April 1, 1960,

issue, of the "New York Post".

The article stated in substance two of Peking's

most loyal and durable foreign resident Communist supporters,

ISRAEL EPSTEIN, 60 years old editor of "China Reconstructs"

and his wife, had been arrested and charged with espionage.

Another long-time British renegade resident in Communist

China, MICHAEL SHAPIRO, had also been arrested and detained,

but not charged with espionage.

Most non-diplomatic foreign

residents in Peking, no matter how demonstrably and

consistently

pro-Communist, were trying to flee the capital.

=4=

SECRET

DocId: 32301355

Page 9

---

