# docid-32327976

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10217

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/04/1963

3

SALVATORE GRANELLO

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32327976

28

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE :

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-8862)

(ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

A. ROSEN)

DATE:

12/4/63

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

3936-C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CRIMINAL INFORMANT

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATEL 27-95 BY SP8 MAC /NSe

information and possible investigation:

na following is being furnished eld

the Bureau for

JAMES CRISONA; JOHNIGLEASON, insurance broker and son of

TEDDY GLEASON President, International Longshoremen's

Assoctation and GEORGE LEVINE.

approached the informant and discussed with him the possibility

of obtaining a loan for Rock Hill Lodge, Inc.

Informant was

furnished

the following background information:

Inc. obtained a $500,000 loan from

a Federal

through a man named OGILVEY (ph), an official of this Federal

Savings and Loan Association. OGILVEY had been recently honored

as banker of the year in the Washington, D.C. area.

OGILVEY

was a contact of JOHN GLEASON, who controls 50 per cent of

the ILA Welfare Fund premiums through.G.B.M. Brokerage

Corporation, 26 Beaver Street, NYC.

This firm is operated by

THOMAS fand JOHNIGLEASON, sons of TEDDY GLEASON. Informant was

told that GLEASON distributed substantial amounts of the ILA

premiums in the Federal Savings and Loan Association and was

able to obtain loans through OGILVEY, who also received a

commission on each loan he approved. Informant was told that

of, these, loans approved by OGILVEY was to Rock Hill Lodge,

Inc.

Sometime in the past, a team of auditors or bank

examiners reviewed the loans of this Washington, D.C. Federal

Savings and Loan Association and found that the loans issued

by OGILVEY were not in accordance with good practice.

subsequently,

OCILVEY was discharged from his position in the bank and the

bank pressed for a payment on the loan received by CRISONA's

corporation. .

- Bureau (137-8862)

let that 1 37-8862-119

1 - New York (137-9495)

Spie

40210t

WAV: pes

(3)

/REC

48)

10 DEG I7 1963

7 9 DEC 1 8 1963

Futiler

Lestone

25.C05 WAT

DocId: 32327976 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

GLEASON contacted LEVINE and LEVINE told him

he could probably get the loan for the corporation to repay

the Savings and Loan Association.

LEVINE

did not produce for

six weeks and a meeting came about in the informant's office.

At this meeting, LEVINE indicated he wanted money. CRISONA

agreed to put up $10,000 in escrow.

The informant stated that

he would not accept escrow money.

He felt that CRISONA, from

the tone of his conversation, would realize there was a

possibility LEVINE was attempting to con him. CRISONA

readily agreed to furnish $10,000. He wrote a check for

$10,000 to the informant, who, in turn, wrote a check to

LEVINE for $6,000.

He stated he is holding $4,000 for

incidental expenses concerning this loan. Informant advised

that LEVINE is sending StAND BERk, a New YOrk attorney to

Montreal, Canada,

to attempt to get this loan from the

National

Canadian Bank.

Recommendation

It is recommended that the above information be used

by the Bureau to institute an investigation in the Washington,

D.C. area.

It is possible that the Savings and Loan Association,

through OGILVEY acted in violation of the banking laws in

granting loans.

It is suggested that an attempt be made to identify

OGILVEY and the Federal Savings and Loan Association with which

he was connected. It is further suggested that appropriate

bank officials be contacted at this institution and advised

that information had been received from an anonymous source

indicating inproper activities on the part of OGILVEY.

It Is believed that investigation in this matter, 1f

instituted in the Washington, D.C. area, will not compromise

the informant.

However, it is suggested that no disclosure

be made of this particular loan to Rock Hill to officials

of this bank. Informant advised he has not engaged in any

illegal activity concerning this loan,

but has merely been

the middleman in the transaction involving GEORGE LEVINE'S

attempt to obtain refinancing for this corporation.

-2-

DocId: 32327976

Page 3

---

