# docid-32298074

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10350

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-114543-107

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OBRIEN, FRANCIS J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/15/1964

15

JURE, MIL ACT, RCD, ARMS, EXPLOSIVES, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32298074

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

i Elios it

15-1-59)

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN JUAN

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/15/64

3/4 - 4/2/64

REPORT MADE BY

FRANCIS J. ORDEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

OJUNIA REVOLUCIONARIA

CUBANA (CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

JUNTA) (JURE)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLAPSFIEL

DATE 10-2001

IS - CUBA

KA - CUBI

SO&MACASE

REFERENCE:

(ГК)

2/28/64. 103

rePOrt OF SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN, dated

Panam

NOWN

B7132

ADMINISTRATIVE

ZACHARY DE GASTER, 10 East 40th Street, NYC, on

3/24/64,

advised that he had returned to NYC,

from his

European

trip on 3/8/64, and that as of 3/24/64, he had

not been contacted by any representative of the JURE.U

DE GASTER stated that he would contact the JURE

In the near future and would advise them that he is

available to accompany onerof their representatives to

Jamaica to inspect the

2-x3

Classifled

ReS/ety

Tico, Dien

9529

Destassily.

on: OADR

APPROVED

PECIAL AGENT

3114/780

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

11-Bureau' (105-114543) (RM)

105+

114543.

1-Miami (105-6661 Info (RM)

VI-San Juan

(105-6242) (Info) (RM)

1-Washington

Field (105-52281)

3 APR 20:1964

-(Info) (RM)

1-New York (105-42570)

DECLASSIFIED RY

ON

4/85

REC 5

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Now

Agency

Request Recd. Copy to: CIA/State/RAd/REA/cusToms

Date Fwd.

ONI/OSI/ACSILIAS

How Fwd.

by routing slip for info.

By

Date 4 - 28-64 by.

56 APR 301964

53/

For cuban

NAI. MARISEC.

HITUAL SEE REVISE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISSEMINATION.

NW 54464 DocId: 32298074

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-42570

CONFAENTIAL

ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ,

-84-19 5ist Avenue, Elmhurst,

Queens, New York, was not contacted as set forth in NY

report of SA FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN, dated 2/28/64, as the NYO

received information from NY 4116-s that RODRIGUEZ had

informed RAUL CHIBAS and other leaders of the JURE that

the NY had contacted him attempting to determine activities

of the organization and what military strength and plans

the organization had. Us/u)

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

T-1

4116-s

$(U)

NY T-2

EMILIO BARQUIN

PSI under development a

Elle Number Where Located

234-8343A) 90(u)

105-42570-83

-85

134-9717A

LEADS:

MIAMI, SAN JUAN, WFO (INFORMATION)

Copies of this report are being furnished to the

above mentioned offices as they have current investigation

in this matter.U

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK. Will maintain contact

with established sources and follow activities of the JURE

in the NY area.U

COVER PAGE

-B*-

CONFNTIAE

NW 54464 DooId: 32298074 Page 3

---

## Page 4

(Rev. 3-3-59)

Ur

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF. STICE

FEDERAL BURSAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

COMSHDENTIAL

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

4/15/64

105-42570

Office: New York, New York

Bureau File #105-114543

Title:

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA

(JURE)

• Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Synopsis:

My I-I stated that ROGÈLIO CISNEROS/DIAZ, a Miami

representative of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana. (JURE) ,_

came to New York on 2/22/64, to purchase Belgian rifles and

also attempt to purchase explosives.

NY T-1 advised that hel

did not know if CISNEROS was successful in obtaining the

arms and explosives.NY T-2 furnished two letters received

Irom the Foreign Relations Secretariat of JURE in Puerto

Rico setting forth two contemplated plans of JURE seeking to

defect employees of the Cuban Foreign Service and of raising

funds and making favorable propaganda

among university

students.

NY I-1 advised that AVENOLAFRANCO, an officer of

JURE in New York; stated that there may be a move by the

younger members of JURE in New York to take over leadership

because of the Inactivity of JURE In NIJANY I-2 stated that

RAULACHIBAS, a member of the National Board of JURE, left

NY on 3/26/64, for Miami and then San Juan, Puerto Rico, where

an important meeting of the JURE leaders would take place.*

-P-

MATION CONTAINED

BRAINIS UNCLKSSIFIED

SHOWN

2-1284

Classified by 2288 RCe el

Declassity on:

OADR

OTHERWISE

ALL INFONNA TON CONTAINED

HEREINS UNCLASSINCE

DATE 10-20-94BY S08 MAC/ISK

BJA/GeL.

DECLASSIFIED BX

ON.

7/1/85

CONFREENTIAL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 54464 DocId:32298074 Page 4

---

## Page 5

* in.

NY 105-42570

CONEX

the

March 26, 1954, for Miami, Florida, and San/Juan,

I, Puerto

Rico.

While in Miami, NY I-I stäted that CHIBAS would

confer with ROGELIO CISNEROS and would then go to san

COStARICA

CHIBAS, CHIBAS was pessimistic and discontented over the

future of the JURE as he, CHIBAS, feels that RAY has gone

ahead with certain operations without consulting either

CHIBAS or CISNEROS.(&(u)

NY I-I also advised on March 24, 1964, that

recently AVENOL FRANCO of the JURE in New York,

visited

him and stated that there may be a move at the present

time within the JURE in New York, on the part of younger

members, to take over the leadership.

FRANCO told NY T-1

that the younger members of the JURE in New York were

unhappy about the situation because the JURE was quite

Inactive in the New York area.(&u)

NY I-I also advised that he had heard a report

but he did not know whether it was true or not that ANTONIO

DE LA CARRERA, one of the original leaders of the JURE in

New York, had resigned from the group. U

NY T-2, on March 31, 1964, advised that he had

recently spoken with RAUL CHIBAS and CHIBAS had informed

him that he was going to make a trip to Miami and San Juan,

Puerto Rico, on business for the JURE.

1964, advised that he had learned that CHIBAS had left

New York on March 26, 1964, for Miami and then for San

Juan, Puerto Rico, where an important meeting of the JURE

leaders would take place. &

-10-

CONFICENTIAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32298074 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 105-42570

COMINE

ETAL

NY T-2 also stated on March 31, 1964, that in

his recent conversation with RAUL CHIBAS regarding the plan

of the Foreign Relations Section of the JURE, to defect

"In place" members of the Cuban Foreign Service, CHIBAS

told him that he did not think that this was a good plan

and did not think that it was a workable plan.

CHIBAS

also expressed the opinion that none of the current employees

of the Cuban Foreign Service are worthwhile defecting and

It would be a dangerous operation for the JURE to get

involved in.

NY I-2, on April 2, 1964, stated that about 2 or 3

weeks ago, he had been in contact with FERNANDO VOLTO, who

is the Ambassador from Costa Rica to the United Nations. NY T-2

said that he had contacted VOLIO at the request of the

JURE in Puerto Rico because in late September or early

October, 1963, MANUEL RAY and CARLOSTOTAGO visited Costa P.RICA

Rica.

During the visit of RAY and DIAGOto San Jose,

Costa Rica,

they conferred with DANIEL ODUBER, who is the

Secretary of Foreign Relations in Costa Rica, and some kind

of agreement was worked out whereby Costa Rica would offer

"support" to RAY and the JURE.

NY T-2 said that he contacted FERNANDO VOLIO at

the request of CARLOS DIAGO merely to have a contact within

the United Nations whereby the JURE could get support in

the United Nations in the event they were able to start some

kind of uprising inside Cuba.

NY T-2 also stated that from a conversation he

had with CARLOS DIAGO in December, 1963, in Puerto Rico, he

learned that the JURE leadership in Puerto Rico was

working closely with CHARTENTIERAGAMBOA, Who was the Consul

General of Costa Rica in Puerto Rico.

At that time,

December, 1963, CHARTENTIER waS under transfer to El

Salvador

as Consul General and the Costa Rican Corsul

General of El Salvador was being transferred to San Juan,

Puerto Rico. NY T-2 said that CHARTENTIER was concerned

-11-

CONFISENTIAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32298074 Paqe 6

---

