# docid-32296342

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10217-10118

HQ

92-6054-157

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/17/1963

2

CRIMINAL COMMISSION, CIP, EVALUATION, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32296342

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

eleased Wider" the John I: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 1171-7017

OPTIONAL

FORM NO. 10

5010-104-02

UNITED STATES CAVERNMENT

Memorar dum

: Director, FBI

DATE:

1/17/63

PEROM :

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027)

SUBJECT:

THE CRIMINAL. "COMMISSION," ETAL

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau letter 1/8/63.

Reference is also made to Philadelphia letters to

the Bureau dated 12/5/61 and 4/3/62 captioned,

CRIMINAL INORMANI PROGRAM - PHILADELPETA DIVISION "BOrLON

Philadelphia Airtel to the Bureau dated 12/20/62 of the same

caption, all setting forth information furnished by PH-599-PC.

It is pointed out that PH-599-PC has been reported

by numerous informants and sources to have been a member of

"The Organization" for many years and to have been involved.

in Organization executions. It is recalled that this Infor-

mant was reported by some sources to be a member of the

Organization during the

"CAPGA" Investigation, which took

place shortly after the mid-1940's.

It is also pointed out

that this Informant was reported to have been involved as

one of the killers in an Organization execution which took

place during late 1940.

It is not known if he was a member

at that time; however, it is quite possible that if he was -

not a member, he was admitted possibly following this parti-

cular execution.

The Informant (as with other members

the Organization) considers "respect" to be highly signifi-

cant and desirable and definitely considers himself to be

above the average criminal, although he freely admits that

he has been involved in criminal activities throughout his

adult life.

The contacting Agent has been acquainted with the

Informant since approximately 1950, when he was first con-

tacted in connection with the

"TENUCA" investigation.

apparently has some personal respect for the contacting Agent,

having made that evident during the contacts by his convérsa-

tion and, also, by the amount of information that he has

3 - Bureau (REGISTERED MATRY

(THE CRIMINAL "COMMISSION,

" ETAL

-1-137-7265

2 - Philadelphia

1 = 92-1027

* 109

REC- 38

12-6054-151

1 - 137-2706

18 JAN 18 1963

DEW: rde

(5)

UNLO 151963

79

137

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32296342 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released Wider the 'John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 17-11-2017

PH 92-1027

furnished to date. It is pointed out, however, that although

each contact appears to improve his relationship with the

Agent and his Inclination to talk more freely, nevertheless,

the interviews continue to be very carefully planned in order

to develop the information without asking direct questions.

It is considered vitally important to the ultimate develop-

ment of this Informant to,

at the present time, avoid asking

direct questions that would make it inescapable that he is

considered as an informant.

It is also pointed out that security of contact

with this individual must be considered most seriously.

He

is Incarcerated and it is not considered desirable to con-

tact him any more frequently than every three months.

Even

these contacts should be on more or less irregular intervals.

In an effort to avoid pinpointing the Informant during visits

to the prison, other hardened convicts who have been known to

the Agent for

a number of years are contacted and maintained

in general conversation, in order that they will discuss this

fact with other inmates

and reduce the significance of the

contacts.

It is important to impress upon the Informant that

consideration is given to his security, particularly since

associates in the Organization are exerting considerable poli-

tical pressure to cause him to be released on parole in the

near future. If he feels the contacting Agent is careless in

this regard, he may well refuse to make meetings after he is

released from prison.

In view of the above, it is not considered desirable

to recontact PH-599-PC at the present time, particularly when

it is considered that he was contacted on December 18, 1962,

as reflected by information in the last-mentioned reference

above.

If still desired by the Bureau, efforts will be made

to set up an appropriate interview in approximately one month

and efforts will be made by steering the conversation to de-

velop as much of the information as possible with regard to

the request in Bureau letter 1/8/63.

It is noted that some

information concerning present and past restrictions on mem-

bers joining the Organization is set forth in Philadelphia

cogan ration

Airtel dated 12/20/62 captioned

"TOP ECHELON CRIMINAL

INFORMANT PROGRAM - PHILADELPHIA DIVISION, " Bureau File 137-

7265 c

_2 -

DocId: 32296342 Page 3

---

