# docid-32338999

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10417

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note) .

CaseR:NO 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PH

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

12/12/1949

• PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

COMPIC

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

54460

DocId: 32338999

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

R

DIRECTOR, PRI

• A

SAC, PHILADELPHTA

COLPIC

IXTERNAL SECURITT - C

(Bureau P1le 100-1384)

December 12, 1949

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2595815606-32 m

Re Los Angeles lotur to the Director dated Hovember 10, 1949 and

Butal to Philadelphla dated Movember 30, 1949.

On November 15, 1949 Confidential Informant PiT-94, of known Follabll-

105, advisod Special Employee RICHARD do ABBEY that the Civil Rights Congress 15

Philadelanis mas holding a "recoption for fighters for elvil liberties" at the

Bellere Strátford Hotel, Philadelphia, on Hovember 29, 1949, Ilekets mere to be

802d at 92.00 each and JOHN HOMAPDOLAISON nas to be a loatured gueste

The Dally Korker of November 24, 1949 contained an article in Colum

50! Prue 7, which nas captioned "Philadelphia CRO to HOld Reception" and nas

datelined Philadelphia November 23, 1949. It statod that notables in the sovie,

professional and trade union fialás nould be guests of honor at a reception which

the Cirsl Kights Congress nas sponsoring at the Bellevue Stratford Hotel on

Novender 29, 1949. It Ilotod JOHN HO:AD IMSON, mOvIe uriter, as a spealer.

on December z, 1949 Spocial Agent MILLIAk I. HUGHES interviewed

Conisdential Infomant p7 251of mom rellability, who supplied him tita a type

written report dated loveber 29, 1949 reflecting his aitenjance at CRO banquet

Blven at the Ballerue stratford Hotal on November 29, 1949a This report 150

dicated that there were approximately 300 people present and that JOllY HOTATO

LAGON was one of the speakers sittine on the platfor.

The following 1s quoted verbatin Iron this inforantis reporte

"JOHN HOARD LASON, Uter and one of the hollywood Ten, who was

up before the Un Anerican Actlultios Comittee on subversive charges, related

the story or that took place in that court room in Washingros. He spoke of the

court room atmosphora and of the apoctators thensalves tho were actually sick

at the rotten Hitler like manner in unich the whole affalr mas conductede JOIN

spoke of the jury to could never actually know, the late a then ho didn't

ths circumstances a jury who heari the beginnine s

ase then anynore untll near the end of a case, JOll warned the people of these

Enclosur

JPK/Smal

LENCL

20034977

oc - Los Angeles

WiTHORAVAL

1100-2486667

TO REFER DED

JAN 16:00

(Enc.)

100-37535 (CHC)

20c=33?49 (Phila. Council of Arts, Sciences & Professions)

100-33492 (Subversive activities in colleges having ROTC unite)

11AR99d9:

47

fate.

74 54460

DooId: 32338999

Page 2

NR-162

Treat As OrIGINAl

---

## Page 3

DINECTE, MED

Laceabas 12, 1949.

aut 056' luncheon bafne bali ly la ibiledelable Council of Arts, Schance

and profesalon on December 3, 1949. tha Ress IntOraRt On MoVesaCr 26,

1949 scrisad Special 1gend THüh to Sludini teet ds of that drie tho

AP had obtaind only 39 reservations for sheds authorse Luncheon and

that they siadad a catal al about 200.

COnCIdATiLal INTOINSt PH-11, di knoTs rallabillty,

silenied don arthars' Lunchoos spastored by the Philadelphia Council

at the Arto, sclenses and pro:essioni, bald at the Faradak Hotel en

Pri-27 furalabad 8h: Pallonin surnary di tha resartas

mida by Janisat at tbe luncheon:

Introl stard thi: ho sus sled to ha there and bave tbe

oparturdty to tall all passons prisent abous the injulastion and tire

thines thiah the sulora of thie country are doin to tabo lassos. At

vio trial al the lallyrood tes in Tashington, be stalad that lo Bas

do PALuid TiMeSo He suudied Til'A" Sand and Sound thil It mas cynionl

and evil ani tuld bor 21k0 1i vas to a certonture of tha palitics he

mato the tiale idon behind the islal is a tbress to la fraudas and

Interity of the herican poopiro It la a thraas to our soral voloma

ani degradaiton is being us unce- tho pover of such vito son se i. "Arrall.

Misinão In soality, it una ro: the spokenan of tha mines that sere

sa trial, bu: dt was the male alley, contempilalo, brutal, ovil cystea

this mãs on tral before shi to:al judgent of the sariao

Syuen adoptad by tale covertiant, returna to tea prydag into do privaca

FocaIns of the stace, Boule and spiritual lives di the people. No

Insoul can escape tbe injulsltion. Il va ballove as they are trylog

to force us to ballove, 1i alll mean a branbdom or the froe liíe of tho

Iln and tie salaalan di all our sonal values.

BhI5oa sinted chet siter tiaring hia decturen concone my

Bey is be bullove what you at then averything me read do usetrue."

HH 54460 DocId: 32338999

Page 3

Treat As Original

---

## Page 4

DIRECTOR, FBI

December 12, 1949

4. 49

ENCLOSUE TO LOS ANGELISE

One copy of "the Time of the Toad" by DALTON TRUBO

roceived on 12/1/49 by SA WILLIAN Be MiLTE. ITOM

confidential Infomant Plio27a

ops do pence the care

4.

Airt

NH 54460

DooId: 32338999

Page 4

Treatas original

---

