# docid-32347896

## Page 1

Date: 12/14/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

ACt of

1992

144

AGENCY: CI

USC

…1U r Notel

Case#: Nu

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10067-10185

53199 Date: 06-07-2017

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

IGENCY ORIGINATOR : CI

FROM

CIA BRECKINRIDGE, S.D.

TO

: HSCA, BLAKEY

ROBERT

TITLE : LTR TO HSCA OF COMMENTS ON VERSION OF THE DEFECTOF

PAPER AND CUBAN PAPER

DATE

PAGES

03/30/1979

SUBJECTS : DEFECTOR

HSCA

MONGOOSE

CIA COMMENTS

GOLDEN BOY

INTELLIGENCE PAPER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OR LASCORENE ORTER ME PROE APACHMEN: 0:67 953 H TASE

IN 1993 THE LETTE

AND 4 PAGE ATTACHMENT WERE PROCESSED SEPARATELY; WE

HAVE JOINED THEM UNDER THIS ID AID AND DELETED 1

-------—==—====-

_.--.

[R] -

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10067-10185

WH 53199 DocId:32347896 Paye 1

---

## Page 2

THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20505

Office of Legislative Counsel

30 March 1979

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RELEASE IN FULL 1997

rag. 8-4-97

Mr. G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Bob:

Herewith are comments on the new version of the Defector

paper and the Cuban paper.

These comments were prepared in my

absence by those on whom I have leaned during this phase of the

inquiry.

I note the "Mongoose" reference, a basic factual comment.

I also note the "golden boy" reference.

Someone may have referred

to the man that way, but it was not a categorization in general use.

Makes interesting reading but is more literary than reliable, for

the impression it conveys. Further, it indicates a tie we feel

should be protected.

Sincerely,

S. D. Breckinridge

Principal Coordinator, HSCA

Enclosures

05802

NN 53199 DocId: 32347896

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Cuban Paper

Section I. 'The Ingredients of an anti-Castro Cuban Conspiracy" is referred

to subsequently as "V"

V15, last line.

We point out that this sentence which continues

on to the next page, V16, is inaccurate.

Operation Mongoose was not

initiated by CIA. It was set up and chaired by the Attorney General.

V18, paragraph 42,

first sentence. We suggest the following rewrite:

"It was the JMWAVE Station which monitored the anti-Castro groups"

v26, paragraph 55, tênth line. ReplacedIA with U.S. Government. a

Section III. Antonio Veciana Blanch

Veciana 3, last three lines!

It

Ais not true that CIA at any time.

recruited Lopez-Fresquet.

Veciana 5, paragraph 126, line

Delete name of Joe d'Acosta;

replace name with [named CIA

employee].

for Agency activities.

Kail could not bring any Cuban into the CIA Station

area.

Veciana 20, paragraph 159, line 6. Put period after 1964. Delete

"and became

agent/ for the CIA"

Veciana 22, paragraph 163, line 7: Place period after Vale.

Delete

"whom he knew to

be working for the CIA". This portion of the

statement is

inaccurate.

1963" Chan 5 arraph 174. Deete second sentence engi cons ers l

principal area of expertise....

considers this

classified information obtained during an executive session.

Veciana 26, first line. " Phillips was serving in Havanna"

¿ Delete

remainder of sentence.

Also in the same paragraph, delete reference to

Mexico City, Chile, Dominican Republic, Brazil, and Venezuela.

Neciana 26, paragraph 175, line 10. Place period after "groups"

Delete remainder of sentence.

Veciana 26, paragraph 175, line 12.

Delete "the psychological'

warfare" and replace with "certain"

Veciana 26, paragraph 175, line 14. Delete "the DRE's propaganda".

Replace with "these".

HH 53199 DocId:32347896 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Veciana 27, paragraph 176, line 3. Delete "propaganda for"

Veciana 27, paragraph 177, lines 9-10. Delete "in the area of

psychological warfare"

Veciana 27a, paragraph 179, line 4.

Place period after "until

his retirement". Delete in June 1978.

Veciana 27a, paragraph 179, line 5.

"as a senior staff official". Delete

eletsert athe covert of tonte

Guidance Staff".

Page 2, B.H. Insert, paragraph 189.

Substitute "Joseph Langosch"

for true name Hal Swenson.

Veciana 31, paragraph 201, line 6. Insert "contribution" after "$500";

line 6 should then read: "a $500 contribution from a wealthy Puerto

Rican [with whom the CIA was then developing a relationship] during a

meeting convened in Puerto Rico by Veciana to raise funds for ALPHA

66; a U.S. Army directed operation". Delete "financier and industrialist,

Codename SKEWER-1, with whom the CIA had a long-standing operational

intenti

relationship". Four lines later, beginning with "or the industrialist"

delete remainder of paragraph.

Paragraph should read as follows: "and

??.

even though the Agency later used the Puerto Rican as a conduit for the u

passage of U.S. Government funds to selected anti-Castro groups, it

appears that in Veciana's case, the money was provided solely by the

Puerto Rican from his personal

funds.

Veciana 32, paragraph 204. Sentence beginning "The available documentary

record" should read as follows:

"The available documentary record was

sufficient to indicate that U.S. Army intelligence had a keen interest...."

Section VI. Brigade 2506.

Page 2, line 2. We point out that the information given in this quote

is not accurate. U.S. Army special forces, not the CIA, trained the Brigade.

Page 2, paragraph 235, line 5. Delete the "CIA chose". Line should then

read "a yound physician was chosen who then organized....

Page 2, paragraph 235. Sentence beginning "His name was Manuel Artime" (

should read as follows: "His name was Manuel Artime who had fled Cuba the

previous December.

Page 3, line 2. Replace CIA with U.S. Government.

Page 6, paragraph 243, line 2. The Agency prefers that you delete ther

phrase "who had become known as the CIA's 'golden boy'".

Section VII. MDC

West Germans "

Page 7, paragraph 262, line 7. Substitute "his country" for "the

WH 53199 DocId:32347896 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Page 8, paragraph 263, line 1. Delete Nicaraguan.

Page 8, line 3. Delete Venezuelan. Substitute "another

Latin American official".

Section VIII. JURE

Page 4, line 1. Substitute U.S. Government for CIA.

Page 4, line 2. Place a period after "potential". Delete

remainder of sentence.

Section IX. DRE

Page 2, paragraph 290, line 6. Substitute U.S. Government

for CIA.

Page 4, line 4. Line should read: "to confront U.S. Government

officials including U.S. Attorney General Robert +. Kennedy, and

CIA Operations Chief Richard Helms, who told them....

Section on David Ferrie

Page 12a, paragraph 422, line 3. Substitute U.S. Government fore

CIA.

Page 12a, paragraph 422, line 7. Substitute U.S. Government for v

CIA.

Section on 544 Camp Street

Page 9. Suggest the following change in Tines 6 through 12:

"In September 1960, the CIA considered using Guy Bannister Associates

against it."

made in Footnote 64 can be used as Footnote 65.

Footnotes

Page 5, Footnote 98: Footnote should read "CIA memorandum to e

Director, 7/9/64"• Delete all rest.

Footnotes. Veciana

Page 4, Footnote 94. Delete classification (Secret).e

Page 7, Footnote 184. Delete true name Crozier.

NW 53199 DocId:32347896 'Page 5

---

## Page 6

Page 8, Footnote 226.

Delete Confidential.

Page 8, Footnote 236.

Substitute "document" for "file".

Footnotes. JGCE

Page 2. Footnote 15.

Delete "section on JGCE (Secret)".c

Page 4. Footnote 57. Delete Confidential. U

Page 4. Footnote 58. Delete "for Sierra". e

Page 6. Footnote 76. Delete Cuba•e

Page 7. Footnote 91. Delete CAS-63-154.L

Footnotes. 544 Camp Street

Page 4. Footnote 63.

Delete "on Guy Bannister".

-.і.-

НЫ 53199

DocId:32347896

Page

6

---

