# docid-32308242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10100

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :,

105-72630-90, 91

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, A/T, LHM

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32308242

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

4/4/63

Transmit the following in

Via

TO:

FROM:

RE:

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

A I.R

MAIL

(Prioriey or Method of Mailing HAS NO OBJIÉCTION TO

-- DEGLASSETA HAT ANDIOR,-

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-72630)

RELEASE * CIXMORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

SAC, MIAMI (105-1598) (P)

AL!

MATICH CONNE CRY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEDA

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

NEUTRALITY ACT - CUBA;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE/ 20/94 B 38

(ГКК).

Re Miami letter dated 2/25/63, and Miami teletypes

to the Bureau dated 3/25, 26,

28

, and

411/63.

Enclosed to the Bureau are 9 copies of a letter-

head memorandum, dated and captioned as above,

at Miami.

Copies are being furnished locally to CIA, G-2, U. S. Border

Patrol, U. S. Customs, U. C. Coast Guard, Immigration and*

Naturalization Service, ONI and OSI.

For the information of the Bureau, this office has

maintained close contact with U. S. Customs

concerning

daily developments as that agency is prepared to seize the

boats involved at the time of their intended departure from

the U.S. and to make appropriate apprehensions. CIA, U.S.

Border Patrol and Immigration and Naturalization Service

have also been advised.

For the information of the Bureau, in order to

Wiprotect MM 635-S, who 18 MM I-1,

from being uncovered by

the Immigration and Naturalization

Service serving off

"Notices of Prevention of Departure"

and the contemplated action to be

taken by U.S. Customs, 1t

- Bureau (Ene.

- Miami

9) (AM)(RM) REC 12.

105776311

91

11 - 134-211

11-62-3573

ST-120

GED: bam

• to; CIA/State/1

(6)

ONE OST 4051,28 Sh 1008

oy routing slip for info

Date

6 2 ARrived 6 1963

_ Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M Per -

HH

54460

Doct

•323

8242

Page 2

---

## Page 3

. 1.

MM 105-1598

was necessary to include informant's identity in the letter-

head memorandum. This was done with his knowledge and consent.

LEAD:

MIAMI:

63

AT MIAMI, FLA.:

Miami will maintain close contact with MM 635-S,

will keep U.S. Customs and other necessary U.S. Agencies

advised of pertinent developments and will report pertinent

developments and final action taken in this

Classified confidential to protect an informant

of continuing value,

MM T-1.

- 2*-

windown

HH 54460

DocId: 32308242

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAMION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR

X1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIC A*ON AND/OR

TELETYPE

RELEASE : I

ORMATION.

N THIS DOGUMENT. K

7-29-97

SLP/KSR

8-288-15-97

(JFK)PM

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /0-27-94/BYSP& MIC EH

all

Mr." Tolson

nir. Belmon

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

IT. Conpa

Mr.

Evans

Mr.

• Gale...

Mr. Rosen .

Mr. Sulliva

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

4-1-53

EST

RST

TO DIRECTOR: / 105-72630/

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-15981

2 P

PEDRO LUIS DIAL LANZ,

INTEL

RNAL SECURITY-CUBA

SHE GUDA.

Wanna

places 105-8015146

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU MARCH TWENTYSIX LAST.

Immigration and Naturalization Service

ON MARCH THIRTY DASH THIRTYONE LAST,

INS, MIAMI, SERVED.

PEDRO DIAZ LANZ,

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

SALVADOR

NOTICES

OLLER AND JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO WITH QUOTE

OF PREVENTION OF DEPARTURE AND AMENDMENT TO CONDITIONS OF

PAROLE UNQUOTE

MinnieS-S

man 42163

TODAY, IMM STX THREE FIVE DASH-S, WHO IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED

WITH THIS GROUP, ADVISED THAT AFTER BEING SERVED WITH ABOVE

NOTICES, PEDRO AND HIS ASSOCIATES EXPRESSÉD DETERMINATION: TOr..

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN/35

CARRY OUT THEIR PROPOSED RAID AGAINST CUBA, EVEN IF IT MÉANT R

QUOTE "

GOING TO THE ELECTRIC CHAIR

'GINQUOTE, AS PEDRO DIAL

EXPRESSED IT. DIAZ ALSO REMARKED THAT U. S. AUTHORITIES WOULD

TO SINK HIS BOAT TO STOP HIM EXORYANT STATED THAT/05 - 12/30-

CHANNEL, FOUR AND CHANNL SEVEN TELEVISION OFFICIALS CAME TO-

HOME OF PEDRO DIAZ SUNDAY AFTERNOON, AT WHICH TIME PEDRO MADE

APR 9 1963

END

PAGE., ONE

769

co: Sullian

62 APR 15 1963

NW 54460 DooId: 32308242

Page 4

---

