# docid-32328242

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/22/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90071-10042

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-79112-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/04/1960

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328242

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mobe)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MM 105-1894

BOSQUE had a disagreement with MORGAN, an d

BOSQUE reached the conclusion that MORGAN was lying

and was not going to carry out his counterrevolutionary

plan as he had previously indicated. BOSQUE did not

furnish any additional details concerning this matter,

but said he had no further contact with MORGAN after

that time. BOSQUE did not go into detail, but admitted

that at these two meetings he had been acting on

Et these

behalf of General JOSE PEDRAZA.

BOSQUE said that money was subsequently

delivered to WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN, and it was his

belief, though he was not certain, that this money had been

brought up from the Dominican Republic by MANUEL PEREZ

SOSA, described by BOSQUE as an Inspector of Dominican (S)

Consulates at the present time

Concerning this individual, BOSQUE said he

made a trip to the Dominican Republic In April, 195%,

at which

time he met PEREZ SOSA through General PEDRAZA.(S

BOSQUE said that Generalissimo TRUJILLO of the Dominican

Republic 1s MANUEL PEREZ SOSA's godfather, and it was his S

belief that he is actually a Dominican intelligence agent.

He denied that PEREZ SOSA has any connection with theS

visit of General PEDRAZA to the United States. He said

that frankly General PEDRAZA does not trust (PEREZ SOSA (5)

inasmuch as the latter individual drinks too much and

talks too much.

OSQUE said that MANUEL PEREZ SOSA came to S

he United States sometime during the latter part o:

1959, and rented a house located at 531 Northwest 24th

Avenue, and had telephone number [NE4-2143.] It was (S)

SECRET

DocId: 32328242

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2017

m 105-1894

DOMICA REPUBIS ECRET

believed that PEREZ SOSA)was going to / succeed AUGUSTO

FERRANDO as (Dominican Consul-General at Miami, Florida. (S

However, PEREZ SOSA)was ordered to return to the Dominican/S

Republic abruptly, and has taken on the position of

Inspector of Dominican Consulates. He said that PEREZ S

SOSA makes frequent trips to and from the Dominican s

Republic, and that while in Miami he apparently

resides at the residence of "ALTAGRACIA", whom he (

described as an employee)of the Dominican Consulate (S

In Mlami, who has telephone (number M06-0779J He saidS

PEREZ. SOSA has a girl friend whom he believed is named S

JULIA (last name unknown), who is either a Panamanian

of Dominican, and who has a red and beige convertible

Chevrolet®

BOSQUE said that PEREZ SOSA was formerly a

cuba, who married a Cuban girls.

sHe said that (PEREZ SOSA was working'

for PEDRAZA in counterrevolutionary endeavors in Camaguey:

However, a disclosure was made which resulted in PEREZ CS.

SOSA' Sarrest by FIDEL CASTRO and only because of his

(diplomatic status|was /PEREZ SOSAJallowed to departS

from Cuba.* BOSQUE said that PEREZ SOSA had been making S

frequent trips to the Dominican Republic, and had

recently arrived on either March 19 or 20, 1960, and

returned with his wife to the Dominican Republic on

March 22, 1960, at 11:45 A.M. BOSQUE pointed out that

In contact with PEDRAZA for a period of approximately five

(s)

in no, way carrying out any activities on behalf of

General TRUJILLO in connection with the activities of

General PEDRAZA. However, BOSQUE did state that when

PEREZ SOSA departed, he carried with him several letters (S

which had been received from Cuba, sent to Miami, Florida,

which, in turn, were then taken to Cuban exiles residing

in the Dominican Republic.

BOSQUE pointed out that

to send mail to the Cuban exiles in the Dominican Republic

in any other fashion would only expose their families, who

could possibly suffer harm in Cuba.

9

SECRET

DocId: 32328242

Page 3

---

