# docid-32390652

## Page 1

Date: 02/12/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10414-10421

RECORD

SERIES: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

-- Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

--06-26-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

:

BERN

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : CABLE RE: COMPLETE TEXT OF SECOND MEMO RE LEE HARVEY

OSWLAD RECEIVED BY ODENVY REP BERN FROM INANITION

DATE

PAGES

11/26/1963

2

SUBJECTS

: OSWALD, LEE

WRIGHT, JIM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/19/98

COMMENTS .:

JFK-RH04: 108-1 : 1998.11.19.19:22:46:076115 : 1DEF

ID CORRECTION FROM OPEN IN FULL TO RELEASED WITI

DELETIONS.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10414-10421

53320

DocId: 32390652

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FROM

INFO

• DIRECTOR

BERN

C/EE 3

DEL, D/DCI, DOP, ADOP,

RECORDS OFFICER STAMF

The following (

auth Sized

""IGLASSHED MESSAGEL

NS/TAZ

SECRET

sIgned

R. 0. 12 - Unst CHERIAL

Sintered

Note:

If destruction,

Or Parenta

ROUTING

1/8.

C/SR 5; D/OS 2, VR,:

ВS COPY

Tuner

per 10

SECRET 2623257

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO INMEDIATE GNACITE

o delong

BERN 2494

1261063458355

#URA KUDESK INK

REE A BERN 2492(10 68312)%

CLASSIF

ICATION REVIENT

P BERN 2493 (1N 68344) **

CONDUCTED

12 4 MAY 1976

_IMPDET EL

10:2208

DO FOLLOWING IS COMPLETE TEXT OF SECOND MEMO

RE

HARVEY

OSWALD

RECEIVED BY ODENVY REP BERN FROM INANITION AT

SAME TINE

AS MEMO

FORMARDED REF A, INANITION AND ODENVY REP BERN INTERNAL

REFERENCE NUMBERS OMITTED.

OSWALD LEE HARVEY, BORN 18 OCTOPER 1939 AT NEW ORLEANS/USA.

IN VIEW OF THE RECENT AND TRAGIC DEVELOPMENIS WE HAVE AGAIN

for FOlA Review oni

CONTACTED THE "ALBERT SCHWEITZER COLLEGE" AT CHURWALDEN FOR

POSSIBLE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.

IT HAS BEEN FOUND THAT ALL CORRESPONDANCE WHICH HAD

BEEN

APR 1976

EXCHANGED WITH THE COLLEGE BY SUBJECT AND HIS MOTHER WAS

Document Number

120158

SOPWARDED, IN MARCH 1961, TO JIMURIGHT, MEMBER OF CONGRESS,

WASHINCT ON D.C., ON REQUEST OF SUBJECT'S MOT HEP..

WE FELT THAT THE ABOVE INFORMATION

MIGHT

ASSIST YOU IN THE PRESENT

INVEST I CATION.

CS COPM

201-289248

3

?. KUSARX ONLY:

200=

EXAM OF ODENVY AND INANITION MEMO REFERENCE

BATA

INDICATES DENVY REP BERN QUERIED INANITION PE LEE HARVEY OSWALD

0: 200-5-41

26

No063

GROUP

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

Seam

HH

53320

DocId: 32390652

Page 2

---

## Page 3

GO MESSAGE

IN 68355 PAGE 22

FIRST ON 16 JUNE 6P, THEN ACAIN 28 JULY G1, THAT INANITION

REFLIED 29 SEPT 62, THEN AGAIN 2D OCTOBER 62. WHEN ELMARD

-/I

VOTED ABOVE AND QUERIED ODENVY REP BERN LATTER REPLIED THAT

CALGIVAL QUERY RE OSWALD CRIGINATED FROM CENVY REP PARIS.

SPECULATE

ODENVY CHECKED PARIS AND BERN IN CONNECTION PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH

FAIR PLAY FOR CURA COMMITTEE INCLUDING OSWALD.

3. XUPARK ONLY: SIGNIFICANCE OF REFERENCE TO ALBERT

SCIWEITZER COLLEGE AT CHURWALDEN NOT KNOWN TO STATION.

QUICK

CHECK STATION FILES SHOWS NO TRACES.

CHECK PHONE BOOK SHOWS

COLLECE LISTED AT CHURWALDEN, GRAUBUENDEN.

A. WILL REVIEW ABOVE ASPECTS OSWALD CASE WITH ODENVY REP BERN

ON 27 NOVEMBER. ADVISE ANY HOS GUIDELINES.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *Forwarded information on Marina Nikolaeva Oswald,

wite

of Lee Harvey Oswald, which was volunteered by Moroccan scident

Mohamed Reggab:

**Forwarded station comments on INANITION 2) memo

concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, who was acquainted with Osward

31128

SEGR

HH

53320

DocId: 32390652 Page 3

---

