# docid-32328770

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90079-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 162-128-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TP

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/25/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH PORETTI

AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

ww Y5923 DocId: 32328770

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Ropen Pom

PD -283 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

EX-114

REC

Reporting Offico

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

Offico of Origin:

TAMPA

Date

5/25/61

Report made by

FRANCIS &. O'BBIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

4/27-3/23/61

Typed By:

5: 7

CHANGED

LOGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA,

aka

Prino ansara, h.

A. Primo Losuara

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

Бупорвія:

Title is marked "changed" to reflect additional aliases

Of PRIMO LAZZARA, A. P. LAZZARA, A? PRIMO LAZZARA.

BEFEREACES

Tampa letter to Bureau 5/1/61.

Bureau airtel 5/15/61 captioned "INTERSTATE GAMBLING

ACTIVITIES."

LEADS

...COPIES MACE, DATE. 712-1/766r

rE PORETTO

NEE ORLEANS

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290)

AT NEV OBLEANS, LA

Vill conduct credit, criminal checks as well as other

sources for bachground data on RUDOLPH LAVRINCE HEINY, JB., BOR-

in-law of subject.

Approved

Copies made:

Special Agent

in Chars

Do not write in spaces belong

11162+1284

МСТ - 42

Bureau

New Or leges

• Savannah

3 - Танра (182-6), 6I

VETICHIGE

Ice

N7 MAY 29 1961

5 JUN 13 1961

Proporty of FBI - This report in loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outaide the agener to which loced

# U. S. GOVERNMINT PRINTING OFFICE: 1996 O 885310

NW 45923 DocId:32328770 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 162-6

SAVANNAH

AT AUGUSTA, GA.

' Will advise as to current activities of SAM DIPIAZZA

individual with whom subject might likely contact pertaining

TAMPA

AT TAMPA, FLA.

1. Will obtain current telephone toll information

regarding telephones presently subscribed to by subject.

2. Will contact established sources to determine

extent of subject's gambling activities and if they involve

interstate contacts.

3. Will conduct spot surveillances to determine

activities and associates of subject.

4. Will determine any additional business enterprises

in which subject might be engaged.

INFORMANTS

TP T-2 is TP 41-PCI

TP T-3 is Former TP 7-C

TP T-4 is TP 8-C (TP 92-21-16)

TP T-5 is DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, Supt., Commercial Dept., Genera]

Telephone Co. of Florida, Tampa, Fla., (TP 92-21-18)

TP T-6 is PCI

Tampa, Fla.

TP T-7 is TP 46-C

OTHER 4

B*

COVER PAGE

NN 45923 DocId: 32328770

Page 3

---

