# docid-32309318

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY : FBI

RÈCORD NUMBER : 124-10298-10105

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-31889-184

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN, A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/10/1963

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/26/1998

INDEFINITE

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32309318. Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

U

1,

дрії

Mr. Herbert J. Niller, 3r.

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

December 11, 1963

JAKES RIDDLE HOISA

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, ET Al.

FEDORAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTAZE

ANSPORIATION OF SIGLEY BESPBAIY

MATE FRAUD; FRAUD BY HIRE; CONSPIRACY

1 - Mr. Conrad

I - Mr. Evans y

27 ₴

This is to confim receipt of your request made on

Decenber 10, 1965. to Shecial Arent,!

Robert A. Garvey of this

Bureau to equip

with a tape recorder con-

cealed on his person for the purpose of recording a conversation:

during a contemplated neeting between

and Joseph 1.

Verhelle, formes President of Publie

san, Detroit,

Michigan,

on December 11,

2963.

You advised that

a Chicago, Illinois,

consulting engineer, is cooperating

with the Government and

has furnished considerable infornation which he has obtained

fron Verhelle relating to the activities of Hoffa and the

granting of Fension Fund loang.

reportedly stated

his meeting with Verbelle, scheduled to oceuz in[

apartment in Chicago, was called by Verhelle to discuss ways

they can help Hofta

in the Nashville case.

In accordance with your retuest, our Chicago Office

has been instructed to equip

with a tabe recorder fox

the purpose stated above.

the criminal division will

furnished with the results

REC 55.

29. 31889 -

184

Much ea

LRK: eem

(20%g

7

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

DATE 10-11-94 BYSP 8 mAC/(SK

(JFIC)

NOTE: See memorandum Mr. Rosen to Mr. Belmont,

captioned

as above, dated 12/10/63, LRK:eem, which contains a

request by Assistant Attorney General Miller to equip

with a tape recorder for the afore-mentioned

Belmont

purpose.

Our Chicago Office was telephonically instructed

Mohr

Casper

at 6:30 P.M.,

12/10/63,

tö contact Department Attorney William

Callahan

Conrad

French of the

• Criminal

DeLoach

with captioned matter,

Day son he out sage connection

Evans

with this

Gale

tape recorder.

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

66DEC 18195

Arent

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes _

Gandy

MAIL ROOM'

TELETYPE UNIT

DEC 1!

OTHER 4

NW 45712 DocId: 32309318

Page 2

---

## Page 3

OPnIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERÍ

Memorandum

TO

ENT

Mr. Belmont

Char

FROM

A. Rose

SUBJECT:

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, ET AL.

FEDERAL RESERVE ACT; INTERSTATE

TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPERTY

MAIL FRAUD; FRAUD BY WIRE; CONSPIRACY

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan _

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

DATE: December 10, 1963

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes —

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Gandy

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE/2-11-94 BY SP8 mAC/KSR

(JFK)

tippatrick

Assistant Attorney General Herbert J, Miller, JT., has

telephonically requested that the Bureau equip

OTHER 4

principal in captioned matter, with a technical device concealed

his person to record a contemplated meeting between L

Michigan,

supposed to take place at

apartment in

Chicago,

Illinois, during the early morning

14/11/03.. According to Mr. Miller,

is cooperating with the Goyernment and has furnished consid-

erable information concerning which

has obtained from Verhelle

relating to the activities of Hoffa

anu the granting of Pension Fund

Thas informed the Department that his meeting with

Verhelle on 12/11/63 was called by Verhelle to discuss ways they can

help Hoffa_in the Nashville case.

Mr. Miller pointed out that recently süch a device was

successfully utilized in the Osborn Obstruction of Justice case at

which resulted in Osborn being indicted-by Nashville Federal

Nashville, on 12/6/63. In this case a damaging conversation was re-

grand jury,

corded between Osborn and an intermediary (on whom a tape]recorder

was concealed) Osborn was using to influence a potential furor in the

forthcoming trial.

and Verhelle were principals in captioned-

matter, which involved a series of

totage, Soon, to a sules in be ark, Detroit,

alleged that these loans were made at the insistence of Hoffa,

santa tened the love Teen Ers tad 75 Euge 9 grost at Public"

RECOMMENDATION:

SE

In view of the need for expediency

is recommended that

our chicago office be

telephonically instruetay

"1 - Mr.

Conrad

REC 55

12 DEC 13 1963

29-31889

LRK: eem

(75 Colu

NW 45712 DocId: 32309318 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re:

James Riddle Hoffa; Dominick Edward Bartone, et al.

Department Attorney William French of the Criminal Division, who

Chicago in connection with captioned matter, for

afore-mentioned purpose.

Chicago will be instructed to insure

that full security is afforded this installation.

It is noted that_

is President ofL

Consulting Engineering Company of Chicago, which company was

engaged to perform a survey on one of the

insolvent corporations

which had borrowed funds from Public Bank, Detroit, in an effort

to determine if the company could be made into a profit-making

concern.

OTHER 4

oK'

40

-

2

-

NW 45712 DocId: 32309318

Page 4

---

