# docid-32340477

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90115-10048

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-108665-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

22

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT; ENCLOSURE

V9.1

DocId: 32340477

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

- DATE :

11-14-2017

0h 8. Muldogne rosiding at 4305 Kentbury Drive,

Bethesda, Maryland, was interviewed on October 16 and 17, 1974.

,Mr.. Muldoon advised that in late 1973 a former associate

of his in a U.S. Government agency involved in intelligence activities

had contacted him to see if he was interested and available to handle an

investigative assignment for some people Mr. Muldoon's forr

- associate

knew in Atlanta. This individual was identified as Mr. Lucian "Luigi"

Conien. Mr. Muldoon stated that prior to this occasion he had been

introduced by Mr. Conien to an individual named Mitchell WerBell at

the Goal Post Restaurant, Washington, D.C. Apparently Mr. Conien's

relationship with Mr. WerBell III dated back to OSS days.together.

turned out that Mitchell WerBell IV and Howard Gibson fan ex-Georgia

State Trooper) were Vice Presidents and Mr. Bob. Bayard (a retired Arri

Coionei, was President of the Centrai investigative Agency jocatea in

Atlanta, Georgia. Mr.. Muldoon accepted the assignment referred to winic

he stated basically involved approximately one week's surveillance

activity. He was next contacted and instructed to proceed immediately

to Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, to assist the Centrai Investigative Agency in

a matter they were handling there; however, he got only as far as Atlant

where he received instructions to come to their office and proceed no

further

It was on this

occasion that he first met Howard Gibson and

Bob Bayard, and Mitchell WerBell's youngest son, Jeffrey: Three or

four other investigative assignments were discussed and he spent two or

DocId: 32340477 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

, DATE: 11-14-2017

the days thore mutely coctalainge During this poriod he was

introduced to Mitchell WerBell Ill (who is the individual he met in

Washington) who was, of course, the father of Mitchell WerBell IV.

Muldoon was invited to Mitchell WerBell Ill's rather palatial home in

the Atlanta area and immediately noted that the walls of the house arid

other areas were adorned with guns. He learned that Mitchel! VerBall

IlI ownied a company known as Defense Systems International which

was engaged in the legal buying and selling of guns. Mr. WerBell had

also apparently developed a modified submachine gun which was supposed

to be silent, but was having difficulty obtaining the necessary clearances

for its sale.

Later in March, 1974, Gibson and his wife came to

Washington and discussed

with Mr. Muldoon his availability to open an

office in Washington.

"Mr. Muldoon agreed and subsequently located an

apartment to be used as an office in the LaSalle Building. He subsequent

set up in this office with one Mike Morrissey of B & R Fox Laboratories,

Washington, D.C. Mr. Morrissey was totally involved in electronic

equipment including both the sale of such and its use in connection with

electronic countermeasures surveys:

Mr. Muldoon did not know Mr. Morrissey before this

time but Morrissey had apparently been utilized by the Central Investigatil

Agency for electronic sweeps and conceivably positive installations.

Mr.

Muldoon has no first-hand knowledge of the latter and it is oniy his

opinion. The office in Washington was not to be

the Washington office

DocId: 32340477 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) :

/ DATE: 11-14-2017

al do contral lvestigative Agenty and in fact a corporation was

formed and registered in Delaware known as Security Consultants

International. Mr. Muldoon stated that Security Consultants International

was formed to sell electronic gear to the Government and foreign

embassies which was actually Morrissey's line of products. It was

planned that Security Consultants International would ultimately assume

certain investigative and other type requirements using basically Mr.

Muldoon's contacts and experience. He recalled that Morrissey had

recently received some mention in the local papers incidental to the

Galbraith case which involved the sex slaying of a young girl. Morrissey

apparently tape recorded some conversations between the defending

attorneys (whom he was associated with) and the prosecution during

the

trial in Richmond, Virginia. Mr. Morrissey was there as an electronics

expert apparently to testify to the imperfections of lie detectors. Mr.

Morrissey has an engineering and law degrees, the latter recently re-

ceived from the American University.

Some prospective clients for sweeps were foreign embassies

but they never actually conducted any such sweeps and the office was

only in operation April, May and June, 1974.

Mr. Muldoon pata the rent

and was reimbursed by Atlanta and was strictly on a commission/per-

centage basis involving the aforementioned planned sale of electronic

equipment.

7753*

DocId: 32340477 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

, DATE:. 11-14-2017

Alr. Milinen arivined that the early part of june, 1974,.

he was apprised of an interest Mitchell WerBell Ill and others had

in

the island of Abaco in the Bahamas. There was a meeting the first

week of June at Guest Quarters, New Hampshire and Virginia Avenue,

N.W., attended by WerBell III, Lord and Lady Bellehaven, Mike Oliver,

Andrew St. George, Howard Handleman and a friend of WerBell's from

Philadeiphia, name unknown, who apparently worked for the Library of

Congress.

Mr. Muldoon stated that. Lord Bellehaven is a member of

the House of Lords in England and was interested in assisting Abaco

in obtaining independence from the Bahamian Government. Mike Oliver,

Carson. City, Nevada, was described as an extremely wealthy individual

who had written a book entitled "A" New Constitution for a New Country"

in 1968 and was interested in setting up his concept of government

somewhere.: Mr.. Muldoon pointed out that liver was not particulariy

wedded to Abaco but the Abaco situation appeared to afford an opportunity

for Oliver to develop and establish his form of government there.

Howard Handleman is a Diplomatic Editor. for U.S. News and. World

Report and Andrew St. George is an independent writer. Mr. Muldoon

described Handleman's interest as being identified with the apparent news

value of the proposed Abaco project and that St. George's interest was

to write a novel. Mr. Muldoon stated that apparently St. George had

written something regarding the Central Intelligence Agency in the past

and had been called before some Senate committee. Allegedly, investi-

gation and suestioning by this committee resulted in St. George admitting

that what he had written had been completely made up by him and had

DocId: 32340477 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

no basis in truth or fach. Muldoon pointed out that with respect to

WerBell and Oliver, WerBell's interest in Abaco was purely the

profits he could make should Abaco's independence become a reality.

He would have a

"lock" on several thousand acres and on it he would

build casinos and other profitable type operations. Oliver's interest,

on the other hand, was idealistic and Mr. Muldoon believes that Oliver

was exploited by WerBell with respect to the Abaco project, accepting

and using his funding freely.

At this meeting a history of Abaco was related by WerBell

IlI from its original settlement by political refugees from the. American

Revolution. Abaco, at the time independence from England was. being

sought by the Bahamas, wished to remain a crown colony. After

independence was gained, Abaco has apparently been seeking independence

from the Bahamian Government currently headed by Prime Minister

Pindling. It was apparent at this meeting that the Washington office that

Mr. Muldoon and Mr. Morrissey were manning was to be the base of

operation for the Abaco project.

Apparently there were two organizations identified by

WerBell,

"Abaco Independence Movement" and "Friends of Abaco", who

together with WerBell, et al., were pushing to break away. from the

Bahamian Government. Oliver, it uno learned became interested between

the time the original independence was granted to the Bahamas and

knowledger or the current efforts to gain independence, from the Government

•of the Banamas. According, to Mutdoon and stated earlier, Oliver did

25

DocId: 32340477 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

not care "whore", he just wanted to find a country where he could

establish his own constitution. Muldoon pointed out that while Oliver

might be

a little

"flakey", he seemed completely legitimate and

dedicated to his idealistic principals.

According to Mr.. Muldoon, Security Consultants Inter-

national (which was Mr. Muldoon) Was to make certain feasibility

studies

in the economic and political areas concerning Abaco's potential

as an independent country and make other comparative studies, etc.,

including research at the U.N. and possibly various Government agencies

to determine how similar problems had been handled. The client of

this study was to 'be the "Atlas Corporation" of Carson City, Nevada,

which allegedly belonged to Mike Oliver. Muldoon stated that he never

actually performed any activity connected in any way with the Abaco

project.

Mr. Muldoon stated that he understood that the only

materials WerBell, et al., had sent to Abaco were medical supplies;

books, etc., which the Government of the Bahamas was not furnishing

and the lack of it was allegedly causing health and social problems in

Abaco:

Apparently the question of

ether

Abaco came up and WerBell stated that everything they were doing was

above board and that "everyone including Pindling. knew about it"

should be noted, according to Muldoon, Mr. WerBell's stated interest in

Abaco was that he was afraid they were going Communist which he was

DocId: 32340477 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the. John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

, DATE:, 11-14-2017

Mr. Muldoon stated that he immediately reported the

results of this meeting to the Central Intelligence Agency in writing

but did not maintain a copy. He furnished the writer, however, a

copy of a report he furnished the Central Intelligence Agency dated

June 18, 1974, which is attached.

Mr. Muldoon stated that he withdrew completely trom

the Abaco plan on June 18, 1974. Mr. Muldoon stated that he was losing

money functioning on a "percentage of sales basis" and advised

Atlanta group that he would need at least a salary of $1,000 a month

plus $1,000 in éxpenses.. He received one payment of $1,000, closed

the office and got rid of the apartment shortly before the end of June,

1974.

: Mr: Muldoon was aware of the fact that an individual he

knows named Walter Mekham (phonetic) went to Abaco for the Atlanta

group; spent approximately 2 weeks there and wrote a report. The

interest of Oliver in the project stopped in July or August, 1974, and

his activities from June on are unknown to him.

During the renied that p

Muldoon was

the Central Investigative Agency, a drastic disagreement developed betwee

Howard Gibson and Messrs. Bayard, WerBell III and WerBell IV. /Mr.

Muldoon received a call from. Gibson during this period stating that he

had been contacted by a sac. Phillip Manuel, wino stated he wanted to talk

him:

G:5son

ecording

to:

7

DocId: 32340477 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE.:. 11-14-2017

decondladed that Manuol's interest pertained to the Abaco

project.

As it turned out, Phillip Manuel, Senate Investigation Committee,

had WerBell Ill called before the Jackson Sub-Cornmittee and quizzed

him with respect to a trip he had taken to Costa Rico to visit Robert

Vesco. According to Mr. Muldoon, WerBell Ill's trip to Costa iion

was apparently to seck the backing and assitance of Vesco and having

WerBell Ill set up and to produce machine guns which he could then

more freely sell by not being inhibited by the U.S. Department of State.

Apparently this never materialized. Also, "half-way through the testimony

of WerBell III"', WerBell IV was indicted on charges developed by the

Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms Division of the IRS for a violation involving

a machine gun. This indictment caused WerBell Ill to refuse to testify

having not refused to testify by Way of the Fifth Amendment privilege up

to this point.

According to Mr. Müldoon the Jackson Committee is quite

upeet oven what they considered a "quick indictment causing the afore.

mentioned problem and are trying to learn just what happened.

Mr. Muldoon stated that prior to

severing completely

the end of June with WerBell, et al, he had received a call from Conien

asking him if he had ever don anything regarding the Abaco project.

He advised Conien that he had not and Conien told him to "get out immer

diately" as there was an investigation going on which Muldoon concluded

on the basis of Conien's conversation was being conducted by the Department

of justice.

Conien indicated. to Muidoon on this occasion that an

investigator was either there or Conien's office or had just left.

8

DocId: 32340477 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

In reconstructing this siluation, Muldoon is now convinced

that Conion's call to him was prompiod by a visit from one Steve Van

Cleve whose company, Intelligence Services Limited, was situated in

Atlanta. Van Cleve is a friend of Conien's. Mr. Muldoon is aware

of the fact that Van Cleve visited the Washington office of Security

Consultants International and accidently walked into a meeting si Wer Bell,

et al., (Mr. Muldoon was not present) at which the Abaco project was

being discussed. Van Cleve, according to Muldoon's theory, being a

friend of Conien's and knowing Conien's relationship to WerBell, immediat

went to Conien to see if he was involved. Van Cleve was convinced from

what little he knew that there was "going to be trouble" and encouraged

Conien "to get out" if he was "in". This is when, according to Muldoon,

Conien apparently called him encouraging him to "get; out" indicating that

an investigation was under way by the Department of Justice.

Mr. Muldoon advised that Gibson, as indicated earlier,

was "out to get" WerBell and in fact, telephonically contacted him, Mul-

doon, and offered money to spy on WerBell, et al, in connection with

the Abaco project.

• He later learned Gibson had made a similar offer to

Conien and ton of them rerused the orer. Muldoon lavor rearned ence.

Gibson had taped both conversations. He also believes that Gibson had

also been responsible.for indicating to Van Cleve that WerBell, et al.,

were engaged in illegal activities with respect to the Abaco project and

in facts

principally engaged in shioping arms there It should be

DocId: 32340177 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

noted Will til on now works, for Van Cleve. At the time Gibson made

the $250, 000 olfer to Muldoon he indicated that the WerBell group were

shipping arms to Abaco and either had or would eventually break the

law in some way. Muldoon stated that he confronted WerBell with this

information and WerBell laughed, said that they were "absolut?" nut"

shipping arms and were in no way involved in any illegal activities.

With respect to Gibson, Mr. Muldoon had also heard

that Gibson had stated that he, Muldoon, was receiving $1,000 a month

plus $1,000 expenses in connection with the Abaco project. Muldoori

stated; as previously reported, that this was absolutely not

true and that

this financial arrangement, while agreed to at about the time the Abaco

project started, was due to the fact that he was "starving" on the

percentage of sales arrangement.:

Muldoon also was asked if there were any other individuals

involved in the Abaco project that he had met or was:

aware of that he

had not already identified during our two interviews. After thinking for

a few moments he stated he could think of no others. He was also asked

if during this period he had ret or had identified to him ary naividual?

whom he would consider unsavory in that they had criminal records-or in

other ways been involved in problems. He stated the only one that hea

could think of was Gibson whom he understood had some difficulty in

Georgia during his tenure as a State Trooper. At this point, he also

WerBill to be what could be considered an unsavory character.

He did recall two individuals who were top officers of Holiday Spas who

were interested in participating in the Abaco project on the basis of

110g

DocId: 32340177 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

having read Oliver's book and having a belief in his philosophy.

In conclusion Mr. Muldoon stated that it was obvious to

him that WerBell Iil, Lord Bellehaven, Oliver, et al., Were convinced,

at least in their own minds, that if independence was gained by barn,

they would actually run the country.

DocId: 32340177 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

•DATE: • 11-14-2017

,a mecting

was hold betwoon myself,

mochetradd, and Witcholl Wordell laX in the

Washington

Ment Cood tants International inco dot), The

Suite 1100, 1020 Conneticut Ave.

Washington D.C.

20036. Both terili

and lavard are officers of sci

and I am the SCI

representative.

It cas proposed at this meeting that SCi tak

on as a client,

"Atlas Corporation"

of carson City, devada.

corporation suppossedely belongs to one like oliver. ir. Oliver, as

mentioned in my previcus. report,

is one of a group of people interested

assisting those individuals

on the island of abaco in the Bahamas wh

wish to

obtain independence from the Pindling Government.

The purporte

reason that Atlas Corporation wants to hire Sôl is to have SCi A). conc

feasibility studies in the economic and political areas conceriing the

viability potential for Abaco

as an independent country, such

•to be compiled from information collected both in Abaco

itself and in

the United States; B). Do a comparative suudy

on the Abaco and Diafra

situations

by researching

the linited. rations'

handling

of the Diafra

problem; f). Rasearch tie vi's handling of any and all

similar

aroblem:

D). prepare a study from information compiled in Abaco as to the actua

of the people of Abaco regarding independence, l.e. is it only

the Nhite minority, the Slack majority, or a combined majority of the

people of Abaco who desire independence: and =).

advise Atlas Corpora

os a result of the findings contained in A through o above, as to the

esireability of providing financial and moral suppori. to

the night and early morning of Wednesday

12 June and

•Thursday 13 June a meeting was held in the hotel room

of Mike Diiver

at the Grammercy

Inn totel in Washington. The meeting

had started at

acue 10:00 p? and i joined the meeting about 11:30 P.i..

Already

present at the meeting vere Werßell, bayard, Oliver and Andro St:

Georgelmentioned in my previous report)..

At this meeting Oliver scared

"Abaco indenendence Movement" (AIM) was planning.

to hoir a

plebescite of sorts on 20 June 1974, at which time the approxinately

3,000 registered voters

on Abaco vould be asked to indicate their inte

in either remaining under the Piddling

government or seeking independe

via an apoeal to the Uu. All was described as the group physinally

located. on Abaco pushing for independence and the nane Chuck "aliras

mintioned as one

of, if not the, leader of AIM. I asked and was told

mothat "yes, Pindling is aware of AIM and also Chick Hall's connection

with Ain"

Also mentioned as one of the people physically locaied in

Saco and Involyed in the movement was a Captain Sawver from Green.

urtle Key. Areas where All had strong support were idertified as:

Marsh Harbor (1,000 members) and Nopetown, Elbow Key, where residents

are suppossedly very enthusiastic about independence.. Another person

mentioned vas a scot named Colin Mitchelllaka "nad Mitcht).I am not

sure where he is located at present. Another groud mentioner by oliver

"Friends of Abaco"

• this group evidently is basea in Miami. li

this group, according

to 0liver,

first approached Oliver some

two years ago and

renuested his assistance.

has provided financial

support

the Abacoans: in

the form

of triting

paper pencils and pens. books

and medical:

supplies. i assume that

and bad Cellhaven mentioneddin my carTier

report are members

the friends of Abaco.as is oliver. now..

DocId: 32340477 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

- DATE: 11-14-2017

3.

joined the meeting.

introduced as Frank Sond

and torn

fessin,

chairman of the soard ind president respectival!, or dolilary

anitarsal, a healti

clab/sps. orcanization..Trey

troy? to

the mettico fi

Paltirore linare,

presumably,

their corporate offices are locates. Triy

were given a

"tacharounder"

din, etc. and then proceeded to

ask questions of those in attendance

as to insividual reasons

for int?!

in Abaco. anc

its independence.

it seams

that they toth

aed ecrairtes

as a resuis exx

or reading

casHTRY'cony attached) publishad in "evada in 1068. Ir

talking with

Frank Coad i discoverad that he considers hinsel? a

that is. Evidentiy bond and fessin ars interested in Oliver's coarses

of creating a

"true, Free-Enterorize, Republic" somewhere in the cort!

and vere contemplating providing financial tacking to cliver for

establishina this.now country

in Abaco if oliver and friends sorid stil

independence for Araco. My understanding fron verbell later, vas tha:

both

ner arreed to provide certain ancunis!? las not told nor mucil ci

money to continue the

program being conducted ty Olivar et. al.

During the briefing of pond und pessin, introductiors more

•rade of all present. I was introduced as lashington regresentatil si

sel and also a former C.l.d. emplovee. do that orint i nada an issue o

che fact that althouch l was a formar c.!.?.

employ!?, there .as??

connection batween myself and/or otrers present at the nectirg, are to

was confirred, emphatically, by verbell. and also savard,

is also pointed

out that ia was

retired U.s. army and that reither ia

army in

any may involved. LantE: deither Eend nor pessi.

io really care

way. or the other. ¿ The meeting

broke up at aucit

3:30 A.M.

auring the reeting of 12-13 June and anconer held forthe 30r

nost-of the day, the suestion nas asted br

ruseir and

whether or not anothing involves in

project miglt

be, or be considered, illegal.l was assured by verdeli

pliver that

everything vas completely open and above-

tearo, a) there was no intent of a military-ture revolutioni no rins

sad veer or vare going to be intronuced into abaco: el. thosa irreli

knew what theyvere doing, irclucing ?analina, anat

they would even velcone my tellira the C.h.r. evaryching linai

16.COTE: This Tatter comment, regarding Chichwas made

Thussday evening by werbell and sayard with nobody else present:

6.

402620922a4

On Friday 14 june I became arare that some Federal

DocId: 32340177 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released

under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

•DATE: • 11-14-2017

6.

%

On Friday I became avare that some Federal Agency was conducting an investi-

gation on sone of the people involved in this ABACO deal.

The main area

of investigation scems to center around alledged gun smuggling to MACO

and the snuggling

of some 25,000 cases of whiskey to APACO.

Supposedly

sane people involved with AlM or the "Friends. of ARACO" have also been

trying to imply that the C.I.A. is backing this independence movement.

in this regard they "reporteily" have been throwing my name around as

well as that of Lal Conein and other former and even present C.I.A.

employees.

This has suppossedly taken place in lashington, Atlanta,

Georgi, and Miami:

Ividently they are at least implying that the C.I.A.

is or must be backing this thing and they have very important contact

in Washington closely connected with C.I.A.

One thing that is no' elvar

to me is who "They" are.

"They" night be kerbell and company or "They'

might be encies of WerBell and company.

The cast of characters as I now Inow them are as follows:

Mike Oliver:

As described in my previous report and who is evidently

looking to ARACO as a testing ground for his "New Constitution for

a New Country".

Mitchell WerBell: As described in my previous report and obviously

in this thing for as much money as he can make.

SO If ABACO becomes independent and he gets a voice in the new

government. He was in OSS in China in 1945.

C.

Colonel Robert Bayard, U.S. Any Retired): A partner of WerBell

and. also in it strictly for the money.

He was the former Chief of

Siaff to the Conmanding General, 2119-Indo-China from 1952-1953.

• ID. Andrew St. GEorge:

A writer, as described in my previous report,

who works on a retainer basis for WerBell and is used io generate

publicity and is paid for these seivings.

E.

lord and Lady BellHaven: As described in my previous report.

Evidently Lord BellHaven made his ABACO comment to the House of Lords

"12, or 13 June.. A copy of their equivalent to.our "Congressional

Record" should provide hat was debated on the issue.

F. Chuck Hall: No info other than reported in paragraph tvo above.

53.

C. Captain Sawyer: No info other tilin reported in paragraph two above.

1. Colin Mitchell: No info other than reported in paragraph two above.

I. Frank Bond: No

info other than reported in paragraph three above.

J. Norman Pessin:

o other than reported in paragraph three above.

8ö;

At the present times

inforned. lerBell and payard that twith have

nothing to. ao watt

untess or.unca.they. camshow ne.sonechung

amiting tron either or

S. Just to rachmaent ard Pro

State Department to the etre

Legal and not considered to bel Not

cara as this me to dó 15

O*s the U.S

G."'.

They are now preparing to obtain

che documentation ard as

DocId: 32340477 Page 15

---

## Page 16

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

first stop Ryard has checked with the Adjutant General (Army) office

in Aclanta wo have cold him he is "clean" and has no legal problems

engaging in this particular activity.

DocId: 32340177 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

• DATE :

11-14-2017

103. 1001100a Pridore Dov. do 1971

Me Tell Sage Arrent Maile

To Stop Senute Testimony

Mitchell WerBell IV, the son of a Cobb County munitions

dealer, has asked the U.

District Court here to dismiss.

charges filed by the Justice department.

In a motion filed with the couri, tae younger WerBeli al-

leges that the Coral Imetimence Agency,

tre i. s.

Depart-

ront of State and die V. S. Docertmicat of tie Tcasury cOr-

spired with tie U. S. Justice debarument lo keep bite irom

testidying before a U.S. ixnaie Commutce.

Ho said he can prove that the agencies were concent

he would reveal embarassing incomation it be appeared ce-

fore Son. Henry Jacison's government investrauers coin-

mittee and tiererore had hic arrestca so ne could rot resulty.

Merileil has ixen daarged with wying in soil 2,000 zia-

crime guns withous staie deparuncht approval

2120294

DocId: 32340177 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

11-14-2017

indor, (ari. li, 1974

AE

CHEN NIT!

VERY LOYAL AMERICANS -WER

dina governands the privato

His hoine on Ga. 060 near

Cibb County municons denier

This in

where WorBeil to

itser secuts odds to tre

1h0 is certain his famis is

camdent his son wil An

inninue.

fronted by a large

unjustig beint harmed in an

cicated de chartra

pon and surenuntied on tie

aitonipe is catch iugitive

art he

financier Manur lison.

will be cicared ei moplications

other didds

iry

Tie tood recent Toi

for Werioll mis i

"They've 5ot a danuy 5;

over thare,"

in the Vesco curan.

morris, the place is accosible

maidens

Tie is a damily man, prud

to rohicles by only one drive

always have done

to roto that his father, eroude i everything in accordanee with

say.

father and proar gramiatr

I tie

ail

and that his follower

Resian soldiere-leriell

munitions esport. las,"

Tie driveway is blocked ty

in tho

said.

in electronic tence, passedle

robie tralitien di scidiorica

"se're very loyal Amori-

nily

after

the

visitor has

¡cars."

by caring in the U.S. Army

phoned into tre hour on a

in Word War IT.

WeBell's present -toyebla

special icephone becide the

WorRell is airo pond of his

proarently sien irom his eí

güie.

internaticoal contacts his fu-

foris to sell cente 2,05) subma-

ichine

And the visitor is greetra

ther

helped. Mind

sias math silencers in

esthlisiz..

His father incred the markd in

porared in a coitlement with i

Dy a squas of dogs, tore big

the lad and des scarine ste

dintary

and mean and, ours amall

o. y

port

for

Russian

royalice

Macada dock, tro yours aro

and haunless, upit: arrivin?,

calve a lot di acad

tri."

trcagms."

Grater, in astra

really in a dad nice

over Cyprus dad i: now:

in buy irora it inc

Julesilen li Can dad.

He crasidors his

robie.

at the agrabs stone dobre.

overthror of

Se. Goviets. Ile

TerRell..

instrumental

In

ni pover de turi, 10

But scat i mom important

ceracing

the. company's

WerBell had the hoine built

for Versait

aro

nis family

round line ds and subma:

or his samily-wnich was to

those days is zaat re belieres

mine guns, split with the,

include sis cardren-hen he

cat that badasserte t

Yue tos man, too ai

is a legal American ira

canady ait was given the :

and his wiie moved to the

abides bu me regai the U.

Da dear of sooney, de

Alanti

area shortly nitia

Siaie Coperariat

World War

became

in

brisinens.

his

stil

II. He

advertising director of Kich's.

Te ten ter days,

= =zinz in seli the guns,

his

son, MEtered 57, has been in-

Tsull has told Sonate loves..

Within

a few years, he

brolors de me with Veceo in i

started his own international

Southeast. Asin

COMPET

during in e

Wattsta

cuts the niu can

blood gets to tara.

"I !,

get mised

said.

cicie on caarges be illegally i

Conta Rica in Apsi.

pubile relations busineas,

wilizing the contocts hamade

conspired lo seii 2,000 m.a-1

resco fled to Costa Rica to!

trateling with his fainer and

chire airs to an

unarmer: avoid arrat under an irrici-i

as a soldier.

büyer. lad aU.S. Senate sui

mer chartant, him with con-d

Then; in 1997, he started the

commande last week was told

tribsong to comer President!

that

francis

Vesco

full-time businusa di deveio

3t-ị.

Decon's tralecion campaigni ing

temptid to purchase 2,020 ma-i in nar aitape to intence ali

stencces; rocketry and

oilier weapons, mising his

chine guns irom Slitchell Ill.

federal incestigatiod of the

international public relations

To has said there is a

nandier.

talets with his herowledge of

connection between

the ma-,

weapons.:

chine gurs citer in the alleged

proposed sale in

Vesco and

the iraictment ni his son.

Thie

tio Herbais are

among the principai owners of

Deterise Sstems International

Irc., knica selis wearions to

icreign

goveruments

and

comestic police offcials.

The firm has agents. in 22

countries, includio? sote in:

However, tro one has said a

purchased any siza-occlu-

Ted, and Werbeil resents the

lins. line or his son dave soid

guns - 10

Vesco,.

they might

have violated Staie desir.

rent requiatons by support-

ing revoiutionaries ard not ob-

taining permission.

TerBell

consciod that this.

He loves guns and silencers.

The walls of his den are deco

rated with them and with

sabers taken from an old Ger-

man caste his fansly. use to

10971.

Fie also loves his travels. As

an adviser to foreign govern-

ments on weapons,

WerBeil

nows more about the -arms

Ceniral and Souto America:.

raca than about his neighbors.

and Soudheast Isia. Zey ar-

intrigues that raise eyebrows

ronge Tales of a

mariary of

and could castly is misaruri-

wintons, such

as did ma.

,sicod.

cilhe guns and howitzers.

"I guess we've met avera

Ora di

thre

cocaccitors

haven't

30.1

erDeil said.

items. "It

ny saies to ion

DocId: 32340477 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATES, 11-14-2017

WERBEL

2-1 Tine Adorenssuen 7806 Ture, Dar 3, 19

2.000 MACHINE GUAS

2 Face Arms

Dealing Charges

She macitine gurs

poriedly amit in

witch the cider Were

allegedly supplied te

exiles attempong io s

By PAUL WEST

Accoring to the indictmem

Wertell said his son met

anti-Cact

Fled Wernerday in one court

Two Cobo County inimitions 1

AlF agent Robert Fink at ine.

ritar!

Heit

beiore ü.S. Distric judre Neo

dealers were indicted

by

31

motel and agreea to let the

veli Ecuateid, ricradon met

agent examine the macitine

1' пе

lederal grand jury Mediescly

with a prospectie gun duver

-on charges they illeually cor-

Sept. 17 at. Cannich's Lounge

БИП.

When young

Terkell

Churges

goiarmont

irat

spired to sed 2.00d liatriciait

complied with the agent's ze-

1561

racine

on

Piediacont Avenue. There

macine guns with seniers.

quest to leave the moul room

nim with colsales?

The pur, antciell 1.

Wer-

Herndon aileedy disolayed a

for a troinent, he was placad

isderal

Deterse Servicea Co. brochure

Bail IV,

under arrest by agents wait-

• launcing

ci

an

25. and Howard B.

Gercribing the machine sun

Herrdon.

S3,

ind outside.

against a iricaily nati

were arrestoil

and discussed the price oi a

last Saturday

by

federal

Proposed: 2,000 gun

pinchase

Under federal law,

U.S.

agents when they soid seyon

with the unnamed buyer.

Treacary agents must he cou-,

hardies machine guns and :

The

Pider

said""

ded when sales of suca fire.

Trednesday he did not know

aims take place and the 1209

Deñals County motel.

A'so named in tie indict-

nient i3s

who Hernion was cut tat ne

tainter tax

must be

was noi an empioye oi De

Herndon,

raid.

WerBell

and De-

Services.

Federai

7U-

fense services Co.

weic in-

conties rebused to give any

weted on one count dê tailing

•In 1000. the No Fors

shipments ot

guns and

other

weacons sired is

from south delhara.

said at the timett:

was intended

icramation about Fierndon's

to pay the to and mother of

Bose in Florida,

Eel and tis sather, Miceed

icepdiy.

saling to

noilly governaient

Is TierSail It, an armanens

Two days aitor the first

oilicials of the arms deui.

WerBell, es,

lives!

acre tract toros ma

once linacd to an

meung, Herndon again met

WerBell said to

sale

corried

aramct

iv

Powder Spring.

The

marty

in the unnated burer and

actually took place and there-

clurre a gun laboran

-Fest tarace Faili and set

said he had arranted to tront

fore his son was not guilty of

Do an azu-castro Dose Laere:

ir: Sea lugran Model die:

failing to pay.he.ta%..

Young

FerBell and Fier

conna fully autorratie guns. are:

Detense

groundi

Services Co. is a

con face pessibia jail terns oi

tree Stencers for $i,400, the

25 years, Dres oi $25,000. 0i::

irructmencalleges.

extorter

ed monster exontes

and manufacturer.

Tae

botia.

tronster took

WerBell invented the mucier-

TerBed was released ra s!

place inst saturing at

the.

coated antoncer uned with the

recognizance tend

and Tiern-

Travelrica

moict wab: the.

Ingram Model Ml-i0 macaine

don was ired on a 15,000 bond t

North lad Tile interchange

c: I-25 in Debelb County.

idllowing their arrest last

Tacre, Herndon: and Wer~

Saturday.

Justice department ouciais

Rol. alegediy sold the seven:

here refused to say tito was

machine guns and four silene-

to have icon the recipiont ci

ers for bleed. the indiciment.

tre 2,000 guns and silencers:

charges. Becauce a g200 trars-i

for

But the elder

WerBleit,

0014

take required by. law

tacted at his home Wednes-

such transactions was al.

day, charged that his son had

legedy not paid, Herndon ard

been

"set up" by jederal

WerBeil

WerE

placed uncer

agents.

arrest.

WerBell said agents oi the

WerBell and. Herndon are:

U.S. Treasury, depariment's: now irce on lond.

Alechoi,

Tobaces

and

The elser WerPell admitted

arms• (STF) dinsion had

fire wednesday that the meering

Trosed as representarives of an had taken place but cirfered

snareiy to the government's i

description or the rendezvous.

Lanamed foreign zovemment

in arransing the, legal out

purchas

The silencers are so effec-

tive,

one arms expert said,

that "all you hear is the click

oi the roiind

feing cham-

bered."

WerPell said his firm oniy

sells nachine guns to coice.

and other

Jaiv chiorcemeat

agencies.

The Dekaib County police

are arrong the law caiores

inent

agercies

that use the

model. machine gun Torolied.

in the WerReil-Herndon cass,

iccoral oilicials said Wednes-

day.

The cider VerBeil said such

woapons are oly used oy fo

in dextreme emorger-

nat the

Trom a tip to Greece and Cra

Dus, said the

marnment

a guilty of "enramon

aad that his son would fight

the criminal charges "all tc

8av"

DocId: 32340177 Page 19

---

## Page 20

"Released under the John F. Kennedy

• DATE 11-14-2017

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

D Co snot enute Thusday, Pciober 3, 1973

MACT CHARGSD-22

Gun Indichment

Cites Firm, Men

A Powder Sorings weapons import company and two

individuals have been indicied by a federal grand jury sor

allegedly arreing io seil 2,000 machine guns withon pay-

ing the forderid transier tax or: reporting the sale to tie

goreaurent.

Named in the tirce-count indictnient are Defense Serve

ices Co., Mitchell Livingston VerBal IV, a partrer in the

Ara, and Howard Emett Berdon, Federa dutcribes Said

It is no known in Horndon has previous aidiation with the

Ferdon met a liranstereo" at a Piedmont Avenue tav-

ena and agrecú to sail 2000 ingram Modei 11-10 Omm auto-

mase machire guns, top indicuncat, states.

The U.S. Attor-

set's attice would not inias the

"transierce," horsever,

se case was prepared by tae Burcuü of Aicónol, Tobacco

and Seriarras.

Later seven of da mins and four silencers were soid to

"o mansiores" as a surpie di üa: loe ior -1,20, traindict-

ree stores, deraden anü mersed met the buyer ata Deñala

Lilar =01al arane in sara the Charges state.

1Dl tore detenizas me marged with one colunt di coil-

spirina to isolai iedera Graarms laws, one count of seiling

the gas sickout reportina are saie to the U.S. Debarment of

Traasury as require by lat, and a thir count of failure to

paj ise transfer tas. :

The conspiracy count is purishnole by a maximum

peraty of a 25.009 fire aid dive years imprisonment and the

severd and thir counts carty penaities of up to $lù,000 and 10

Jears.

HerBell owns one-third of the gun import business, in

which his father is alco a partner, according to jederal offi-

ciais.

DocId: 32340477 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE -

11-14-2017

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

7971110101

!!!.:!

Red Takcove

Is Heared for

Free Bahamas

Big The Associaled Ires

A British member oi Parlia-

ment and an American arms

manufaciures

said

Tuesday

they fear a Communist iake-

orer in the Carlosean

after

the Belama

islands

become

independent on July 10.

Ccl

Coin

"ind" staged

and alichell L. We-sed 1a

commented

in interters ai

Tie sew's

arms

20.

miles

caris. there dfitore?

525 3

pianned

the C0-scaare

aila island nif Abaco.

= he

Eries.

•islands, •isca

005:572

the

indecenceace

come on Jui

13 10

the

Britise croirn colory of

te Betames.

Neither Mitchell nor War Bell

mould talk io netinen about

rumors of a possible revot by

the tiny island from the. Zaha-

mice golemment.

Bui

HerBell

commented

diring a cocktail

party that

"if they hase a revoit, I'll

hein 'im.

and he used a

string

o6expletives in de

scribe.

Bahamian

Prime

Minister Lingen O. Pinding.

Mirchell said his mission 1o

the tiny island of 0.509 propie

about 150 miles cast of Flor-

da sill be to determice wheth-

ci the Babarian government

can remian secure.

The one-time commander of

the freil and sitteriand

Highlanders regiments of the

Brisis Army said te is pri-

marily

concerned about

power vacuum once ine Brit-

ish leave the istands.

"People say that Commu-

nist rule comes by defauit,"

he said. "If you leave a power

vacuum, somebody's got to fill

it."'

But Shichell said he would

be

"very,

very surprised"

Abaco's desire to remain loyal

to the British croin would re-

sult in arined confic.

"Provided they are given

proper

political

expression.

Alichei! said. the Abaco resi-

denis probably world not re

sort to wariare.

"Sut it there is coercion,"

he said,

"in

sid

to eight

months I think wed see some

tining."

ITerBell. who insisted he is

noi providing aims

10

1122

Abacuans or the irish Republi-

Can Army figiting in Ireland,

said the possibility

that

Communism

razy. like over

the 700 isiand

chain is

"ab-

soltuely my prime interest."

Tie said lie has arms for t:0

brigades

- about aas per-

sons - and can field an aray

if he feels it

is

recessary to

fight for one side or another.

"In this world,

there are

propie wino shouid be granted

the

rigit of

seli-deterina

tion,"

WerBell said.

"I don't

care if it's a vilage in North

Georgia

and they

sant

10

make rugs. I have fought all

my lie it my own expense -

as i see it - for the rights st

people."

sie said Pending is "a nG-

good, cheap

crool:" Catering

1o American financier Rober

Vesco

the

Watergate scandal. and Who is

recried in be hiding in

tine.

Baham25.

He added that Pending "is

a no-good

Jamaican,"

and

also callei him "a nigzer.

DocId: 32340477 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE.:

11-14-2017

WERE

..on 251951 goal

17194

Allantan Accused

in Gun Case

BY PIUL WEST

WerBell charges that Finer.

An Atlanta man was irce nn

bond

ick 1a5 the thind man present

icle acted as an agent of the

Thursday

night

being

accuied of

ailer

at a Dexall motel last conth

gorcirarent

its.

"trapping"

theft by

in which

deception in cornection with

an aileged

illegal

the indictment last month di

arras transaction involving

"We never make any com-

the sale vi 2.000 sub-machine

Cobb County munitions dealer, guns ivith silencers iook

ment one way or the viler in

Matcheil L. Werschl iV.

these cases,'"

said E. D. (Ed)

antheny Emerick was

Macca.

Hughes, assistant directoe of

re.eased by

Deisalb Colmay

According

WerBell,

the : Alcchal,

tobacco andl

anstoraes

Eirerick

Thunday

W.5

aiter-

hired by the

Fircarms citice in Aulant.

rson iter beirg sered with a

Treary Deparament's Aicro-

The . warrant

served

on

charges i

Warben

charges

sivorn.

riel, Tobacco

Enterick

and firearms

Intradiny

warrant

that. Emerick iras tre

division io pose as a machine.

that he obtaineci machine guns

thire charang

Emerick irish

Sin buyer sor an unnured

irom young terkell "oy de-

asing varia a giot to tao ca

foreign government.

citrul means with the inton-;

las: weed by lerBed the ars

HerBell was indicted by a

tion of depriving (lerBell) ci

deaier.

iederal grand jury last moath

such gurs.

on charges he altea pied

Emerick

reached for comment

could not be

seil the 2.010 macitine guns to.i

Aite Treasury

departren

an unnamed buyer in viniation.,

of federal laws requiring guit

dealers is lotty ine gover

nearings before Sen. Henry JI.

ment when such transactions

Jackson's investigations com-

are made.

mhittee on the groanis that his

Following the. arrest oi

testimony

could aftact the

WerBoil, 2t, his fnther refused

trial of his son.

to testify. befoce a Senate suir

Senate: investigators

"re-

commitice investigating an al- l

vealed, aiter filowing, Wer-

leged atteropt..by

jugluve.ch's refusal to testily,

financier Rebert Yesco to set 4

that #

Justice departinent

cificials

up an arms factory in Costa

Rica.

had directed an imirediate in-i

dietrent of joung Werball ira

Mchelle. WerBell Ill icoki

the ans

case,

leading: 10

speculation that tire acrion.

was aimed at preventing the

older HerBell from testying:

in the Vesco aifair.

135.

DocId: 32340477 Page 22

---

