# docid-32159295

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10130-10301

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-32965-317

Released under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

444 USC 2107

Notel.

Case# :NUT 46151 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM:

DOS

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 12/01/1941

PAGES:

219

SUBJECTS :

DEMOH, INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/06/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : EBF

HHV16151 DocId: 32159295

Page 1

---

## Page 2

100-1649, R. J. CLEMENTS, HOUSTON, 6/10/41

Name

LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN

Age

35 years

Born

Mexico City, Mexico, 5/19/06

Height

5' 8"

Weight

130-135 pounds

Build

Medium

Hair

Eyes

Red (probably hennaed)

Brown

Complexion

Dark

contacted Senor sequent so the bove in ere or carlos,

who is a close friend of BROWN, ina smuch as subject LARIN had indi-

cated her acquaintance with him. SUAREZ was not notified of the

Bureau's interest in subject LARIN, and advised that he first became

acquainted with her in New York City, having met her at a social

function there.

SUAREZ stated that LILIA LARIN is supposed to be the

widow of Senor LARIN, a famous Mexican candy manufacturer 'whose

products are as well

L known in Mexico as Wrigley's chewing gum in

the United States." He advised that if she actually is this indi-

vidual, she is undoubtedly a wealthy woman. SUAREZ stated that with-

in the past week, subject LARIN had contacted him for the purpose of

obtaining a letter to some officials in Paris, France, in order to

arrange the

immigration of a Polish family from France into the

United States.

She did not supply any particulars as to the identity

of the immigrants, but stated that she would return at a later date,

which she never did.

Senor SUAREZ stated that no Europeans are presently

allowed to enter Mexico without a Permit from the Secretaria de

Gobernacion, and that subject VON MOHRENSCHILDT would be unable to

accompany subject LARIN unless he procured such a Permit. He advised

that Senora LARIN had discussed this matter with him and was presently

attempting to obtain a Permit from the Mexican Consul at Laredo, Texas.

The above facts were telephonically related to Special

Agent KENNETH LOGAN on June 3, 1941, and the information was furnished

to the San Antonio Field Division by teletype, request being made of

that office to arrange for a search of subiect's personal effects and

baggage on entrance into Mexico and upon return.

- 7-

100-32965-2

130-10518

NW 46151 DooId:32159295 Page 2

---

## Page 3

The letter went on to relate that exposed

films were found and that other investigation was being

made by Mro CLEMENTS of the Federal Bureau of Investio

gation.

On June 5, 1941, Mexiean Consul JAVIER OSORNIO

and Vice Consul S. M. PEREYRA, Inforened that the cons

late had issued that day to MORFNSCHILDT as GEORGE SER

GIUS VON MOHRENSCHILDT, A Mesdean Visa # 16% MOHREN-

SCHILDT had presented a Polish Passport and a Re-entry

permit to the United States.. He stated he was going to

Mesdeo to produce a travelogue. for Facts Filn Inc., New

Jork City and he gave as a reference Lice MIGUEL YARZA,

Calle Tiber # 6, Medeo City. He expected to be in

Mexico six monthso

At approximately 1:40 Pollo, June 5, 1941,

Subject and Mrs. LARIN arrived at the International

Bridge enroute to lexdeos In accordance with arrange.

ments made with WILLIAM A. PETTY, Chief Inspector of

U. So Customs, they were stopped by Customs Inspector

Ho Go SORRELL

and requested to bring all their baggage

Into the Castons Inspection station which they did.

They were traveling in a 1941, grey, Chrysler Conver

tible coupe,

motor mumber 80137, seriäl number 7934296,

1941 New York license number 5 N 9937. This car

belonged to Mr. LARIN, according to papers in her

possession.

The baggage was personally inspected by

Mr. PETTY in Agent's presence and papers or documents

found by Mro PETTY were handed to Agent for exemination.

MISa: LARIN carried & large, black purse, the contents

of which were examined by the matron. the purse con

tained about five thousand dollars worth of jewelry,

a small sun of money, Mrs. LARIN'S passport and car

paperso

The search was concluded about 2:20 Paloo

nothing of a subversive nature was found.

No trouble

was experienced during the search, However, during the

latter part of the search, MOHRENSCHILDT, at Mrs.

LARIN'S suggestion asked for Agent's name and official

position as well as that of Mr. PETTY'S. This infor

mation was innediately given them, Just before subject

and Mrs. LARIN loft, Mrs. LARIN returned to the inspec

tion station and asked for. SORREL'S name and position.

130-10318

100-32965-4

NW 46151 DooId:32159295 Page 3

---

