# docid-32339258

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93072-100

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1963

'PAGES:

66

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: • 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

. *

v9.1

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

CIA HAS NO-OBJECTION-TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF. CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT JM 6/24/98

NGROIN 1S

PIED EXCEPT

SUPPLO ONTAL CORRELATION SUGARY

(See Correlation Summary dated 11/29/61 filed as 105-93072-40)

Lain File No. 105-93072

Subject: Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

Date: July 5, 1963

Date Searched: 1/28/63

111 logical variations of subjact's name and aliases were searched and

identical references were

found

as :

Limaxy

Rishard Thomas Gibson

One

ribson 12

D.CGibson

B1gn sabson

R.

J. D SO-

richard Gibsol

Grisson

Richarda

Sabbson

Richardstjison

4/эт/gд:

CLASSIFIED BY 5668510/gel

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (Y6)

JFKI

This is a smmary of information obtained from

a review

of all "see"

references

to the

subject in Bureau files under the

names and aliases listed above.

All references under the above

names containing data icentical with the subject have been included

except those listed at the end

of this summary as not having been

réviewed, or those determined to contain the same information as

the main file.

4

This sumary is designed to furnish a synopsis of the

information

set out in each reference. In many cases

the original

serial

wi 11

contain the incormation in much more detail.

GOVERN

TIG SULARY HAS DEEN PRECARED FOR USE AT THE SBAY 02.

NT TS XOT 30231

FOR

DISSBOINITION

Analyst

Robert I. liller

RID i sas: brh

Coordinator

Innie Tae Tearon

and pai

Approved

Norman 2.

REC Slim

2 - R.N. Mullins

EPIOLOSURE

IC. retained in Nudin MCT Shire

105.93072*100

87 JUL 5 1963

Enel. Behind File

Bargech sips only

715/63

ASMAO GAT.

on:

DADR

4 JUL 16 196:

(кк)

Catomory 1, 2 2

Exempt fror

кіна

3/16/28

SECALI

4.M

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 2-

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Santurce

during 1959 and 1960 and the Cuban UN Mission in 1960,

sent 20 h then can a man on in 1360 gron that

Richard Gibson or Gilson, a

colored man, brought material to the Cubarl

UN Mission for translation

for use of the FPCC as propaganda.

SJ rpt. 1/23/63 (NY 105-41246)

Re: Joaquin Sanchez Recio

IS -Cuba

105-88611-30 р. 5

(224321

An article captioned, "Union Leader Here Forming Group Aimed

at Giving Cuba Fair Play" appeared in the "Cleveland Press and News,"

a daily local newspaper, in its issue of 12/9/60.

According to the

article, Richard B. Tussey, who was forming a Cleveland Chapter of the

FPCC and who was a member

of the national committee of the FPCC, advised

that Richard Gibson,

former CBS newsman, was also a member of the

national committee

of the FPCC. L

CV 288-S.advised that a combined membership and public

meeting of the Cleveland Chapter of the FPCC was held 2/5/61 at Cleveland.

According to the informant, Ed Shaw of Detroit, identified by the

source as mid-West co-ordinator for the FPCC, was the principal speaker.

shaw explained the purpose of the FPCC and stated the committee was

started by Robert Tabor, of NY, a former CBS newspaper reporter who had

spent a lot of time in Latin America and several months with Fidel

Castro in Cuba during and after the revolution. Shaw related that

Tabor became annoyed

with the false reports the American Press was

sending out of Cuba.

According_to Shaw, Taber together with Gibson,

identified by source as Acting National

Secretary of „the EPco, managec

to obtain enough money to run a full page ad in the "NY Times

which

opposed the American Press reports and brought the truth about Cuba

and the Castro Government to the American people. 4

CV rpt. 11/22/61

Re: Richard Berlin Tussey

SM-SWP

100-68340-27 p. 1,4,8

(15) V

* c.

-ЗА -

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

According to "The NY Times" of 3/1/61, the Liberation

Committee for Africa was headed by Daniel Watts, 37, and architect,

as President and Richard Gibson, a graduate student

and former

• news

writer,

as Secretary. Watts, according to the source, claimed a

nationwide membership of 400,

mostly Negroes, whose goal was to aid

"African Freedom Fighters" and promote awareness of a common heritage

of Afro-Americans and Africans.

NY airtel 7/11/61 enclosing

letterhead memo (NY 100-141416)

Re: Afro American Alliance For

Action Racial Matters

105-87964-111 encl. p. 4

(22)6

SI 105-20110-103 p. 4,18 (NY 100-114769)

(20) Add.

infe,

CAN 3164-S. ACT L) (VY 105-40092)

SI 105-87964-100 P.

(22)V

On 5/19/61 Arthur Clark,

Manager, Chase Manhattan Bank,

14th St. and Fifth Ave., NYC (protect identity) advised that or

drew a check payable to

i in the mount to a certion and van deposited

endorsed by rubber stamp endorsement

in a branch of the

Chemical Bank NY Trust Company where "Liberation"

had an account.

NY letter 8/25/61 (NY 97-2125)

Re: Non-Violent Committee For

Cuban Independence

IS Cuba

RA Cuba

97-4567-30 p. 1

(14)V

-4-

SECRET

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

On 3/1/61 NY 1924-S advised that Richard Gibson was acting

Executive Secretary of the FPCC. 4

(4<4 *NY 3161-STobserved Elinor Ferry in the office of the FPCC,

799 Broadway, NYC,

on 5/16/61 and at the time was calling various

airlines in an attempt to obtain a reservation for Gibson, who was to

travel to Chicago, on

5/19/61.

Add. info.

NY rpt. 8/1/61 (NY 100-115461)

Re: Elinor Cecelia Ferry, aka.

SM - SWP

100-388988-87 p. 3,7

(17) 1

On 5/24/61 Richard Gibson, Executive Secretary of the FPCC.

in NY,

spoke at an FPCC reception

which was held in his honor, at the

of Richard Tussey,

Cleveland Heights,

The 4/18/61 issue of the "Cleveland Plain Dealer" identified

Richard Tussey as Chairman of the Cleveland Branch of the FPCC.

CV rpt. 7/27/61 (cc: NY)

4

Re: Joe Jaffe, aka.

IS-Cuba

105-98374-4 p. b,5,6

(23 )V

SECRET

-6-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

Captain Loren Herfurth, Flint, Mich.

PD (protect identity)

and DE 716-S separately advised on 5/26/61 that Richard Gibson, Acting

National Secretary of the FPCC, and Edward Shaw, Midwest Regional

Director of the FPCC, were speakers at an FPCC

gathering at Flint,

USA

Mich., on 5/25/61. (no further details). u

DE rpt. 2/16/62

Re: Alice, Shirley Foster, aka.

SM-C

100-37831-19 p. 2

(15) V

CV 288-S advisedon 5/26/61 that Richard Gibson was then

National Secretary of the FPCC. u

Add. info. according to CV-273-S on 3/29/61 and duplicate

informants.

4

CV rpt. 7/30/62

Re: Anita Lou Reinthaler, aka.

SM-SHP

100-397280-26 p. B, 1,10,14

(17) V

By letter dated 6/12/61 Paul M. Cocot, Attorney and

Bureau a copy of the 5/27/61 issue

a Polish: English-

language newspaper published

Cocot called attention to an advertisement on page 10 which announced

a lecture by Richard Gibson who claimed to be a traveler and newspaperman

for

iang system and who

the Columbia Broadcasting System and who appeared to be pro-Castro.

4

Cocot's letter. Y

By letter dated 6/20/61 the Bureau acknowledged Mr .Paul M.

Serial described above

100-129861-849

(15)V

-7-

SECRET:

INW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

On 6/7/61 W. C. Benedetti, Northgate Printing, 1410 Eas1

Seattle, advised on that date Danny Freeman requested an order

of Zoo tickets to be printed which were tickets to hear Richard Gibson,

Acting National Secretary of the FPCC, at a meeting sponsored by the

Seattle FPCC and the University of Washington Student Council, Frclosed

at 604 University Street.

The tickets

that Gibson would tall on the topic, "Lessons of Alabama and Cuba."'

Add. info. according to SE 736-s.

SE rpt. 2/7/62

Re: Daniel Arthur Freeman, aka.

SM-SWP

100-426728-28 p. 21-23

(17)V

Richard Gibson, National Executive Secretary of the FPCC,

at a meeting sponsored by the Student Council, FPCC on 6/14/61

non-member support.. Gibson

the truth about Cuba (SE 648-S and SE 742-S on 6/16/61).

SE rpt. 4/20/62

Re: Arthur Richard Mink, aka.

SM-SWP

100-57988-80 p. 3,4

(15) V

SI 100-438639-1 p. 10

(20)V(Harley Lewis Kelley, 5526

(Panel Source, Seattlet Wasntity)

and Florence Elizabeth Kuzina -

on 6/16/61) (both had furnished

reliable information in the past)

-8-

| NW 45793 Docid: 32339258 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET:

On 6/16/61 SE 736-S and SE 742-PSI advised that on 6/14/61

an informal meeting and reception for Richard Gibson sponsored by the

Seattle Student Council, FPCC was held at Seattle, Washington. At

this affair Gibson talked about Cuba and emphasized how the Cuban

pid Yard that the Hot a ay an a 4 got that uch Song,

to the American people. 4

Add. info. according to SE 742-PSI and SE 736-S on 6/16/61

and 8/11/61 and duplicate informants. u

SE rpt. 11/21/61

Re: Robert Eugene Patrick, aka.

SM-SWP

100-66887-63 p. 20,21

( 15) V/

SI 100-345381-30 p. €

(16,29) (Add. info. accordin

to SE 742-PSI and SE 736-S

6/16/61)

On 6/16/61 Cliff Carrico, Office of Security, CIA, made

available the following contents of an intraoffice CIA

• memorandum:

"Source advised that on 6/9/61, a sales conference was held

at Beacon Press in Boston, Mass., by Edward Darling.

At the sales

meeting, Darling stated that they were going to publish a book on Cuba,

by Waldo Frank.

Source stated he then questioned Darling as to whether

or not the book was pro-Castro.

Darling stated it was slightly

pro-Castro, but it went much deeper than that. Source said an argumen

ensued as

to whether or not the book should be published and although

the majority of the sales force was opposed to publishing the book,

Darling was going to go through with the publication.

Source stated he then, through various publishing firms in

NYC, determined that the book had been turned down by Carleton Beals,

who had returned the book to Frank without even reading it, with the

statement that he would not even read paid propaganda no less publish it

Beals advised Source he should see Richard Gibson and Lyle

Stewart, both of whom could collaborate that Raul Roa had made a grant

of $7,000 to Frank to go to Cuba to write the book.

(continued on next page)

-9-

NW 45793

DocId: 32339258

Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

(continued)

Source advised he sought out Gibson, the secretary of the

FPCC, who testified before a Congressional Committee and when asked

the color of his politics stated it was the same as the color of his

skin, black. Gibson told Source to avoid Frank and not to have anythin

to do with Frank's book, as it had been bought and paid for by Castra

confirmed the fact that he told Gibson to stay away from the book, anc

Frank, because Raul Roa had purchased

frank, and the book was nothing

Carrico advised that the source of the information was

Felix Morrow, a personal friend, who had attended the American Book

Seller's Convention in Washington, D.C. and who contacted Carrico for

dont one dario on

the purpose

off seeking assistance

published.

и)

in keeping the book from being

Bureau memo, 6/19/61

Re: Waldo Frank

IS-Cuba

100-259110-35 p. 1

(15)V

4

DN 215-S advised on 6/19/61 that a meeting of the Denver

Branch, FPCC was held at the residence of Nellie Garcia, a member of

the Executive Board, FPCC, Denver, Colorado, on 6/18/61, which featured

Richard Gibson of NYC. #(U)

This meeting, according to the informant, was conducted

in an informal manner and consisted mainly of a discussion led by

Gibson, who pointed out it was his belief that although the FPCC was

unpopular with the public at that time, things were getting

better, especially since the aborted invasion of Cuba. Gibson stated

stated this worked out in extreme favor for the FPCC.

Gibson gave out pointers as to how members of the FPCC should

conduct themselves if interviewed by FBI Agents or if called before

the HUA .

*(U)

(continued on next page)

-10-

SCENEL

NW 45793

DocId: 32339258

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

on that date he observed

enor corry in tore a ped a 99 Broadway, NiC, at which

time she was calling various airlines in an attempt to

for Richard Gibson, who was to travel to Chicago, Illinois, on 5/19/61. X

so rhines

obtain reservation

NY 711-S advised that at a meeting of the NY Local,, SWP held on

5/25/61 at SWP Hdgrs., 116 University Place, NYC, Richard Garza,

Organizer, NY Local;

SWP, urged the acceptance of Elinor Ferry into the

NY Local,

ISWP

and she was, according to the informant, accepted by the

members.

4)

During July, 1961 NY 3253-S* advised that on 7/21/61 Helen

Lorenson (phonetic) contacted Gibson at the FPCC Hdars. NYC and advised

him that she had a message to contact Elinor Ferry. According to

And ran interenton do i also to cal home inessage that she

On 3/1/61 NY 1924-S advised that Gibson was Acting Executive

Secretary of the FPCC.

NY rpt. 8/30/61 (NY 105-10101)

Re: Alger Hiss

IS-R

101-2668-421 p. 3,4 .

(20)V

The 7/24/61 issue of the "National Guardian" contained an

article entitled "July 26 Dance" to be held 7/22/61 at the Leonardo

20 and * o

Da Vinci Hall, 350 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, NY. According to the

article, Richard Gibson, Acting National Chairman, FPCC, was to be

included amongst the quests of honor at this dance.

4

7-32/3-A "National Guardian

211

17/24/61

On 7/27/61 NY 3253-S advised that Richard Gibson, Acting

National Executive Secretary, FPCC, NYC, was in contact with David

Dellinger at "Liberation'"

and discussed the money

which the FPCC

owed Dellinger for printing the "lost bulletin."

X(V)

NY letter 9/12/61 (NY 100-121672)

enclosing

I letterhead memo

Re: David Dellinger

IS-Cuba

SM-C

100-381511-4X1 enc1. p.2

4

(16) V

(SI on next page)

-12-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

(continued)

51 100-304411-5 p. 5,7 l

(16)V(Add. info.]

Correlator's Note: CV 975-S* advised on 10/15/61 that Gibson stated

Bellinger.

date on u are i one ra do it a to denom and

that 10,000 copies of the lost issue were printed (see 100-384411-6

p. 5, (NY 100-121672) (Not indexed). *(U)

On 7/28/61, Felix Morrow, 1601 Jericho Turnpike, New Hyde

Far the pastrotect identity), who had furnished reliable information

advised that he received a letter from Edward Darling,

Director of

the Beacon Press, Boston, Mass.

Darling,in the letter

disclosed that Lyle Stuart told him (Darling) that he (Stuart) anấ

Richard Gibson,

as representatives of the FPCCK had a meeting with

Cuban Foreign Minister (date and place not given).

Roa was somewhat

Perturbe 2, pral because he as at go ong me that the can

Government had received nothing for their money.

Informant advised

that Stuart and Gibson were the only two persons who had direct

knowleage of the $7,000.00 grant.

Informant concluded that he did not

believe Stuart or Gibson would care to discuss the nature of their

meeting with Roa with any governmental organization

)(U)

Add. info. according to PH 575-S and duplicate informant. Y

NY rpt. 9/15/61 (NY 100-55873)

Re: Waldo David Frank

RA-Cuba

IS-Cuba

106-259110-39 p. 2, b,2

-13-

NW 45793 DocId:32339258 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CEOD

On 8/16/61 LA 4000-S stated that at a meeting of the

Executive Committee of the Los Angeles Chapter of the FPCC (LAFPCC)

held at. 3751 Tracy St., Los Angeles on 7/31/61, Martin Hall, Chairmar

stated that he was concerned over the close

affiliation

between the LAFPCC and the July 26th Movement because of the latters

registration as a "foreign agent" with the US Government, and that

Roberts, West Coast Representative of the

FPCC, would write Richard Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary

of the FPCC, for a statement of policy. * (U)

LA rpt. 9/29/61 (cc:NY)

Re: July 26th Movement, Los Angeles,

Calif. (Comite De Relaciones

Publicas Del 26 De Julio DeLos Angeles,

Calif.)

IS-Cuba

RA- Cuba.

4

97-3439-86 p: 54

(2)

NY 3253-S* advised on 7/31/61 that Richard Gibson, Acting

National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had been in contact with

Dagoberto Molerio, a prominent member of the July 26th Movement, NY

and asked him if he would consent to act as his replacemen

in that dent "something happened" to him. Molerio replied that he would

have to discuss the matter with his attorneys. XU)

LA rpt. 1/24/62 (cc:NY)

Re: July 26th Movement, Los Angeles,

IS-Cuba.

RA- Cuba.

97-3439-88 p.5 V

(2)V

-14-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 12

---

## Page 13

CEPO

UANY 3161-SXadvised in 8/4/61 that Walter Bowe was present

at FPCC hdqrs

799 Broadway, NY, NY, where he had a conversation

with Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary of the FPCC, concerning

the possibility of starting a Washington, D.C. Chapter of the FPCC. L

NY rpt. 8/23/61, (NY 105-47199)

Re: Walter Augustus Bowe

IS-Cuba

105-995.97-3 p. 6

(2311

4

On 6/21/61 SE 507-S advised that Richard Gibson spoke at

a public meeting sponsored by the Seattle FPCC and the Seattle Studen

Council, FPCC, held at Seattle on 6/13/61. Gibson spoke about his

experiences as a writer, lecturer, and his visit to Cuba in 1960.

He

said the FPCC was an organization

to tell the truth about Cuba; that

this was the basis on which people should join the organization and

"not as a political front" and that the FPCC was a revolutionary

movement.

4

2434 E. Miller St.

Seattle, Washington,

On 8/11/61, Flee Flabete dentity), who had furnished

a leader in the Seattle Branch SWP, made a report to a joint meeting

concerning the organization of an adult chapter of the FPCC.

According

to the informant, Gibson was anxious that the organization be started

•to establish a chapter of the FPCC in Seattle and gave her several

suggestions to further this aim. Informant said Gibson stressed the

importance of getting such a chapter started, no matter how few they

, started with; that once the official organization was there, the members

would soon be there and that several members should be well

versed on

the Cuban situation so there would be a reserve of prepared individuals

who could speak when the occasion arose.

SE rpt. 5/31/62

Re: Josephine Helen Patrick, aka.

SM-SWP

100-232772-37 p. 9,17,18

(15) V

SI 100<329148-371 6/16/61, SE 742-S

(16 )V(SE 736-S

on 6/16/61 and duplicate

informant) (Add. info.)

(SI's continued on next page)

-15-

SELLEL

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 13

---

## Page 14

(continued)

SECRET

SI 100-430386-9

(18) /(Add.

info. P.14_ (NY 100-145575

(SE 736-S and

SE 742-PSI on 6/16/61)

4

S1 100-339857-60

p.10

(15)V

SI 100<437482-1 p.8,9

(20)V(SE 742-S on

1 6/16/61 and

SE 736-S on 6/16/ 61 and 8/11/61)

CSLA 3184-S advised on 8/15/61 that Rosemary Jacci Corden,

3161÷ Future St

8/11/61 on which' Los Angeles, was arrested by the Los Angeles PD on

occasion she

was found to have in her possession a

membership card of the FPCC signed by Richard Gibson; and that the

telephone address directory then listed Rosalind Lindesmith, who had

been active in

the CP

since 1934, at 3161½ Future St., Los

Angeles,

telephone CA 2-1572.

LA rpt. 12/7/62

Re: Rosalie Rodriguez, aka

IS-Cuba

105-106787-10 p.12

(25)V

CIA, Washington, D.C., advised by letter dated 10/31/61,

that 1t had received information from a usually reliable and highly

sensitive source that John Underwood Rigsbee visited the Cuban Embassy

in Mexico City, Mexico, on 8/18/61, in an effort to get in touch with

Robert Taber, National

Executive Secretary of the FPCC, in Havana.

According. to

the source, Rigsbee indicated he was sent by Dick Gibson,

Acting National Secretary of the FPCC

from NY, and made reference to

"Fair Play," presumably the FPCC.

Source also reported that on the same date, Rigsbee sent a

cable to Taber in Havanasashbe, in which he advised he was in Nexico

at the Cuban Embassy.

requested Taber to send him

and also requested Taber telephone him at the Cuban Embassy.

Rigsbee

nar the offinal enter arom elison and ones Relations i Havana

had the original letter from Gibson and Jones.

Serial described

above

100-118017-10 (cc:NY)

(17V28)*

SECRET

SI 100-118017-16 p.7

(17>3 (CIA protect

NY 105-46059)

Iantity (s)(u)

SECRET

-16-

NW 45793

DocId: 32339258

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

This reference in the file captioned "Committee To Aid

The Monroe Defendants"

set out lengthy information concerning the

activities of Richard Gibson,

during September, 1961, in conjunction

with the formation of a defense committee to obtain financial support

and counsel for Robert f. Williams and other defendants involved in

the racial incident at Monroe, N.C., on 8/27/61. Information was also

set out on how Gibson was trying to stop the SWP from taking over the

defense committee.

NY rpt. 10/31/61 (NY 100-146359)

Re: Committee To Aid The Monroe

Defendants

IS- SWP

100-439091-29 p.9-11,13-15

(19)1

On 9/11/61 IP 27-S who was acquainted with certain phases of

pro-Castro activities and individuals in the Tampa, florida, area,

advised that Angelina Amparo Alcala received a letter during September,

exchanged mailing lists with the Prometheus Book Club, and that the

FPCC had obtained new members and subscribers as a result.

X(U)

TP rpt. 11/30/61

Re: Angelina Amparo Alcala, aka.

IS- Cuba

105-102398-4 p.2

(24) 0

4

CG 6474-SHon 9/7/61 advised that in September, 1961 the name

Arcuimedes Sayas, 2904 West Armitage, Chicago, 111., was in the

possession of Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary, FrCe, NYC, NX.

CG rpt.

12/22/61

Re: Juan Arquimedes Sayas

Costa aka

IS-Cuba

105-105797-1 p.6

4

(25) V

-19-

SERNED

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

PH-575-S on 9/7/61 advised that a meeting of the Young

Socialist Alliance (YSA) Club of Philadelphia took place at 3502

Powelton Ave., Apt. 4L,. on 9/5/61.

At this meeting,

according to the

informant, a proposal was suggested and passed that the SW, YSA

and the African Liberation Committee work together and hold a Robert

Williams meeting.

At this YSA meeting, according to the source, Dick

Roth disclosed the

Party had a committee to back Williams. It was

further revealed at the meeting that Dick Gibson and Conrad Lynn

were said to be working on this. 4

charging Robert Williams with unlawful interstate

A Federal Warrant was issued on 8/28/61 flight to avoid.C.,

prosecution for kidnapping.

4

PH rpt. 11/30/61 (NY 100-133479)

Re: Young Socialist Alliance

IS-SWP

100-427226-348 p. 20 4

(28)

And Hilda Armin,

5738 South Blackstone, Chicago 37, I11., were in

the possession

of

subscribers.

These names,

the possession

of Richard

Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary, FPCC,

799 Broadway, NY 3, NY.

CG rpt. 12/13/61

Re: Hilda Diamond

SM-C

100-243415-15 p. 5 4

(15)V

Armin, aka.

C_ CG 6174-Sadvised on 9/7/61 that a list of names received

Acting Executive

i the one to

was either a enter a scaler 1l the Pit.

The list indicated Mackal

CG rpt. 1/31/62

Re: Roy Paul Mackal, aka.

SM-C

100-435635-8 p. 4

(181

4

brh

-20-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

NY 3253-S* advised that on 9/8/61 Thomas Louis Kerry

Fonta te aRice that send tan dation Beta tive sed etad her the

she, should leave the FPCC.

According to the source, Kerry statec

he had told Green that she had no authority to get involved in the

national affairs of the FPCC.

NY 711-S in September, 1961 advised that Green was a member

of the NY Local, SWP •

Green, according to the informant

to resign her position as secretary with the FPCC upon the instructions

of Kerry, then National Organizational Secretary of the SWP.

NY rpt. 4/13/62 (NY 100-59096)

Re: Thomas Louis Kerry, aka.

IS-SWP

61-8046-108 p. 13

(1),

On 9/18/61 NK 2307-S furnished information that Richard

Gibson, Executive Secretary of the FPCC,

was the principal speaker

at an unidentified meeting held on 9/17/61 (place not given). Gibson

gave a brief talk on Cuba during which he mentioned that the Committee

was desirous in getting college students interested in the Committee,

that there were films available on Cuba and that a dance sponsored

by the Committee was to be held on 9/30/61. In connection with

Gibson's talk, pamphlets were made available.

4

NK rpt. 1/30/62

Re: Ruth Warren nee Ruth Sokoloff, aka.

SM-C

100-432620-14 p. 1,2

(18) V

4

• On 9/19/61 Alan K. Lauckner; Jr., Assistant Treasurer,

a, NYC (protect identity) wh

nades ishe ceilable interation la the past, ate ted that among

those present at Idlewild Airport to greet Cuban Foreign Minister

Raul Roa upon his arrival in the US for the General Assembly Session

of the Poc, and icanciscob. Porteing National Executive Secretary

-21-

SECRET.

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 17

---

## Page 18

ras

(continued)

SEGMET

According to this informant, upon arrival at the airport,

Portela

engaged

gined Gibson and Ambassador

Raul Primelles.

These three

in a lengthy conversation while awaiting Roa's arrival.

The September, 1961 edition

of the publication "Members

of Permanent Missions to the UN Entitled to Diplomatic Privileges

and Immunities" disclosed that Sr. Raul Primelles was Ambassador

Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary

of the Cuban Mission to the UN.

@opity termanent Roprosentative

NY 3164-S (date not given)

waS

unable to furnish any

information concerning the conversation of Portela,

Gibson and

Primelles.

According to the informant, Portela advised that Prensa

stay clear of Berta Green

(Richard) Gibson is speaking

at that affair --

that's okay."

On 4/3/61 NY 711-S advised that Berta Green Zuckoff was a

member of the SWP.

NY rpt. 11/13/61 (NY 97-1725)

Re: Francisco Valdes Portela, aka.

RA-Cuba

97-4213-16 p. 6,7,8

(12) L

И

NY 3253-S* advised on 9/22/61 that Richard Gibson, the

Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, in discussing various

individuals for a position with the FPCC, mentioned a woman who hac

a child by a Nicaraguan revolutionary.

Gibson stated that this

woman

and formerly employed by "Vogue" and

"Mademoiselle."

also spoke English.

Gibson cording to the informant, stated that she

The informant further advised that later during the same

day, Gibson stated he would like to employ a woman named Stasia,

a beautiful red-headed girl who formerly worked for some fashion

magazine and who was at the Hotel Theresa, NYC, when Fidel Castro was

at the hotel. Gibson stated she was

then

in Mexico and had a child

by a Nicaraguan revolutionary.

(И)

Add. info.

NY

Sokolowska

IS-Nicaragua

105-110694-3

p. 4,6

4

(25) 1

-22-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

NY 3253-S* advised on 8/22/61 that Bienvenido Efrain Lopez!

contacted Richard Gibson, FPCC, NYC, and advised he would meet Gibson.

at the

FPcc office as he had a letter to show him (no further

information). *(U

The same informant advised on 9/28/61 that Lopez was in

contact with Andre Martinsons,

FPCC, and inquired if the FPCC had the

Cuban films

including the film of

the invasion.

Martinsons stated

he did not know the location of the films but believed that Gibsor

had them.

* (U)

On 8/21/61 NY 3042-S advised the film "Death of the Invader"

Canada in June 1961 by

No barto reno one or at on to gone sane, Prostagne

of the July 26

Movement in NY.

According to the informant, Sanchez

had the films sent to NY where Lopez was made custodian of

the films.

NY rpt. 10/27/61 (NY 105-44651)

Re: Bienvenido Efrain Lopez, aka.

IS-Cuba

105-93610-11 P. 3

(22)60

_on 9/30/61

the informant, Lee was met by Federico Otero Calero on 10/1/61 and

escorted to an apartment at N.W. 36th St. and 18th Ave., Miami, where

hey held a discussion. During the discussion Otero asked Lee

was going on in Tampa,

and Lee said he had been followed by someone

while making deliveries of the newspaper,

"Revolucion, " official

publication of the Castro Government.

Otero said he had tried to find

out what the trouble was in Tampa.

He said he had even called Richard

Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC in NY, but

Gibson

did not know anything. * (Ul)

rpt: 11/9/61 (NY 105-47474)

Re: Federico Otero Calero, aka.

IS-Cuba

RA-Cuba

105-97780-20 p. 16.

(23)V

4

-23-

SECRET

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

Victims of

Racial Injustice Need Your Help,"

An article entitled "Monappeared in the 10/2/61 issue of

the "National Guardian."

The article listed Richard Gibson, 53

West 125th St., NY 27, NY, as

one of the sponsors of the Monroe

Defense Committee.

Add. info. according to the 10/2/61 issue of the "National

Guardian"

page

100-436190-A "National Guardian"

(19) L

10/2/61 page 8, 10

in the Cuban Ministry of State Offices, Havana, Cuba (protect

identity) and with whom insufficient contact had been made to

determine his reliability revealed that leaders of the FPCC in NY,

who were American citizens and with whom the Cuban Government haf?

direct correspondence, were Robert Taber and Richard Gibson. 8

MM letter, 10/5/61 enclosing

letterhead memo (cc - NY)

Re: Raul Roa

Foreign Political Matters - Cuba

105-78205-56 encl. p. 2

20)v

SI 105-78205-69

(21)v(Add. info.f. 3

TP 27-S advised on 9/26/61 that Vincent Theodore Lee had

allegedly written a letter (date not given) to Richard Gibson,

Chairman of the FPCC in NY, asking to be made the Southern

Representative for the FPCC. A-(U)

On 10/3/61 same informant advised that Lee had been taken

reported to have told "Cuba" that someone

had been

following him to see where he had distributed the paper

"Revolucion," and that he was through insofar as any further

distribution of the paper was concerned.

"Cuba" said that he did

not know what was going on so he called

Gibson in NY but that Gibson

did not know anything.

Lee told Wilson to write Gibson in NY as

he would not be able to attend the FPCC Conference in Cleveland, .

10/14/61 and that Wilson should go in his place.

X(u)

(continued on next page)

-24-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

(continued)

This informant advised that Gibson said that (the UN

Security Force) sent a Negro security man to talk to him and Watts

(date and place not given) and that this individual stated it wasn't

"personal"'

but that the pressure was on.

Gibson concluded that the

pressure was arising from the US Delegation to the UN.($(U)

According to the NY letterhead memo dated 10/11/61 the

Tass News

Agency was the official Soviet Government news gathering

organization with hdars. in Moscow, USSR and branches throughout

the world, and the Prensa Latina was a Cuban news agency with hdars.

in Havana, Cuba.

The sole office of Prensa Latina was located at

580 Fifth Ave., NYC.

(S4)

NY airtel 10/11/61 enclosing

letterhead memo (NY 105-42387)

Re: Daniel H. Watts

IS-C

105-96316-3 p. 1, Enc1. p. 1,2

(23) v

On 10/27/61 CV 489-S

made available photographs taken at

the in to me scuba the head torches ragat in the photograph

was Richard Gibson.

This source on 11/7/61 further advised that Richard Tussey

organizer of the FPCC Chapter in Cleveland and the person responsible

for keeping Fair Play in Cleveland active, introduced Gibson of NY

as the person who took over the responsibilities of running the FPCC

on the national level when the founder Robert Taber, left for Cuba.

Source stated that Gibson spoke on the crises in Berlin, Laos and other

places

in the world (speech set out). U

Worthy was the next speaker. According to the informant,

he discussed statements made by Gibson which are set out.

at one formation set ten the fire da mid 12/21/62

advised that the information set out in the letterhead

memorandum would

have to be paraphrased before it would be suitable for dissemination.

CV letter, 11/8/61 (NY 100-114769)

Re: William Worthy, Jr.

IS-Cuba

SM-C

4

105-20110-109 p. 2, Enc1. P. 1,8,15,21

(20.28)V

4

-26-

SECREL

NW 45793

• DocId: 32339258

Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

At the 10/1/61 Chicago SWP Branch meeting Howard Mayhew,

Chicago Branch SWP organizer

Gibson,

Executive Secretary of

the FPCC, and that the group was made up of

Negro nationalists and members of the CP.

According to Mayhew, this

Jroup wanted to oust conrad Lynn.

as Robert F. Williams' legal

counsel,

and

substitute another lawyer (CG 5926-S-10/2/61, CG 6416-S-10/11/61

and CG 5933-5-10/6/61)

Howard Mayhew, in discussing the Committee to Aid the Monroe

Defendants (CAMD) at the

10/16/61 meeting of the Chicago Branch SWP,

stated that a letter had been received from Mrs. Robert Williams

requesting unity

of the CAMD and MDC.

Mayhew remarked that Richard Criley had turned Robert

Gibson down regarding membership in the MDC

and was for unity of

the two committees

(CG 5926-S-10/16/61, CG 6416-S-10/26/61 and

CG 5933-S -10/20/61).

4

CG 634.4.-5

member

of the State Committee of

Min September, 1961 advised that Criley was a

the Illinois District of the CP, USA. X

Add. info. concerning Robert Franklin Williams. 4

CG rpt. 11/29/61 (NY 100-146359)

Re: Committee To Aid The Monroe

Defendants - Chicago

IS-SWP/

100-436091-43 p. 12,14

(19,30)V

On 9/24 and 25/61 NY 3245-Sadvised that "Jigs" Gardner, 78

White Vaks Road, Willlams Town, Mass., had contacted Richard Gibson,

FPCC, 799 Broadway, NY 3, NY, by way

Gardner inquired as to

whether it was possible for him and his family to move to Cuba anc

whether his experience as a teacher would be of use to Cuba.

BS 808-S on 10/19/61 identified Gibson as Acting Executive

*U)

Secretary of the FPCC.

4

BS letter, 3/6/62 enclosing

letterhead memo

Re: John Ingraham Gardner, aka.

15455316-9 p. 2, Bnel. p. 1

4

-27-

NW 45793 DocId:32339258 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECKET

On 10/31/61 NY 3253-S* advised that Richard Gibson, Acting

National Executive Secretary

FPCC, inquired of Bienvenido Efrain

Lopez if he could show some films at the FPCC's meeting in NY on

11/9/61. Lopez replied that he had turned in the films and the

projector to his people because things were not going well.

Lopez

stated the 26th of July Movement leaders were missing. * (V)

The July 26th Movement was a revolutionary organization

founded and led by Fidel Castro, Prime Minister of Cuba.

NY rpt. 2/9/62 (NY 105-44651)

Re: Bienvenido Efrain Lopez

RA-Cuba

IS - Cuba

105-93610-17 p. 2

(22 )v

On 9/22/61 NH 405-S reported that William Winnick stated

on 9/18/61 (place not given) that Richard Gibson, National Secretary

of the FPCC, was unhappy with the Trotskyites in the organization

and as a result there might be a split.

On 11/3/61 this source further advised that Winnick revealed

on 11/2/61 during a discussion of the New Haven Chapter FPCC, that

the New Haven Chapter FPCC was all through and that Gibson had ruined

the organization.

According to the source, Winnick stated that the

FPCC held a national conference in Chicago

and that only eleven people

attended, none of whom were SWP members.

NH rpt. 2/21/62

Re: William Winnick, aka.

IS -SWP

IS-Cuba

100-234959-24 p. 14,15

\ (15)V

-28-

/ NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

CE 1936-S* advised on 10/17/61 that in a contact between

Ted Lee and Richard Gibson at NYC on 10/17/61 Lee told Gibson that

the Monroe Defense Committee had better get on the ball and unite

because their people in Monroe did not go for black supremacy. Lee

stated that if

the

overall black policy kept up, then all Monroe

would turn against the Monroe Defense Committee. Lee stated he would

withdraw his sponsorship if the all black policy was maintained.

X(U)

Acting National Secretary of the FPCC,

no Ce ember and or bore i or hang cu)

NY, a list of names of persons

On 11/7/61 NY 3253-S* advised that Ted Lee was reportedly

in contact with Gibson in NY. Lee indicated that he had been

sitting by the telephone day and night since 11/2/61 and told Gibson

that he had better things to do than to sit by the phone.

Gibson

reportedly told him to stay by

the phone until 11/8/61.

* (U)

Add. info.

TP rpt. 12/29/61

Re: Vincent Theodore Lee, aka.

IS-Cuba

RA-Cuba

105-96362-16 p. 4-6,10

4

(23)1

CG 6131-S on 11/22/61 advised that on 11/14/61 a meeting

of the South Side Branch, FPCC, was held at the apartment of Isadore

Warwak, 5203 South Blackstone

Ave., Chicago.

At this meeting, Warwak stated that the city-wide Chapters

of the FPCC were weak in attendance as well as in membership and

unless his suggestion,

that all Chapters merge and meet as one strong

city chapter, the aims

and purposes of the FPCC in Chicago could be

lost.

ship drive be planned.

Eve these reasons art was agreed at this meeting that a member-

Gibson (date not given) but the NY Hdqrs. could neither help or offer

suggestions

due to their low financial status and loss of membership.

Add. info. according to CG 5933-S on 1/26/62 and duplicate

informants.

CG rpt. 4/27/62

Re: Isadore Warwak, aka.

IS-SWP

105-50077-15 p. 12,15,16,18

(21)V

12 539+

-30-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 24

---

## Page 25

On 11/20/61 NY 3164-Stav

SECRET

Ased that he had determined from

Richard Gibson, Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC,

that

Francisco Portela, Director of the NY Office of "Prensa Latina" (PL),

Cuban News Agency,

possibility that Gibson might

580 Pifth Art accept had approached Gibson concerning

employment with PL.

indicated that he had declined this offer.

Gibson also stated that Portela had told him that he had

wanted to send David Simeon Laulicht to wasnington.

D.C.,

as

correspondent for PL, but that the Havana Hdqrs. of PL had not. come

through with the required budget figures to make this possible.

(л)

On 12/18/61 the same informant advised that he had

determined from conversation with Gibson

that Portela had in the past

told Gibson that he had tried very hard to get reassigned to some

other PL Bureau.

Gibson stated that Portela even fought to be

reassigned to Havana, Cuba, prior to his arrest.

X(u)

Informant also advised that Gibson had learned from Portela

that it was Portela's intention to retain the best attorney possible

for his defense and to fight the matter to the very end. U

Files of the NY Office disclosed that on 12/8/61 a Federal

Grand Jury at Washington, D.C. returned an indictment against the PL

and

Portela.

Portela was charged with violation of Title 22,

Section 612,

of the

broin Agent desig to on ot o 958 as amended, provisions

on 12/4/6 Ny 3400-Shadvised that laulicht was working full time

at PL having

Regis Ravised tha

terminated

his employment with the Tass News Agency.

NY rpt. 1/3/62 (NY 97-1725)

Re: Prensa Latina

RA-Cuba

105-80145-573 p. 14,22,41

(21) V

On 1/5/62 NY 711-S furnished a report regarding: National Convention

of the Young Socialist Alliance which was

held 12/29-31/61, 777 West

Adams

attended ice 0, Vention felt that" tht

Informant advised that several

persons who

anonymous letter on Dick Gibson

that had been circulated was the work of the FBI:

NY letter, 1/5/62 (NY 100-133479)

Re: Young

Socialist Alliance

IS-SWP

100-427226-365 P. 15

(28)V

Kon da i

-36-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 25

---

## Page 26

u)

SEBRET

on 7/16/61 NY 3164-Sadvised that he was acquainted with

Leroi Jones, a Negro who resided at 402 West 20th St., NY,NY. Informant

stated that

he believed Jones was originally from Newark, NJ, and that

Jones was

on good terms with Richard Gibson and Berta Green of the FPCC.

Gibson and Green were known to the source as President and Secretary-

Treasurer, respectively, of the NY Chapter of the FPCC.

On 11/3/61 NY 3253-Sx advised that on that date Gibson, Acting

National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had commented that Jones

had been arrested by the US Government on an obscenity charge; however

Gibson had learned

I that the Government wanted to drop charges against

Jones but the American Civil Liberties Union wanted to push it.

Gibson

stated that the Government proposed that if Jones stopped

"distributing

the particular issue through the mail, the Government

would drop the case.

Gibson further stated that he thought the arrest

of Jones was politically motivated because Jones had been asked if he

knew Fidel Castro.

On 1/5/62 WF 1282-S advised that on 1/4/62 Keith Kern, the

Head of the Washington, D.C., Chapter of the FPCC, indicated that

Gibson had refused to have Berta Green as President of the NY Chapter

and instead sponsored Leroi Jones, a Negro nationalist.

On 9/27/61 NY 711-S advised that Green was a member of the

NY Local of the SWP. U

NY rpt. 3/2/62 (NY 100-133629)

Re: Everett Leroy Jones, aka

SM- C

IS -Cuba.

100-425307-28 p. 3,8,13

(17) 1

Former PSI (protect identity),

who had furnished

reliable information in the past, on 1/12/62 advised that on 1/11/62

Richard Gibson, National Secretary of the FPCC, was the featured speaker

at a meeting held at the Carmichael Auditorium, Brown University,

Providence,Rhode Island. Arrangements for this affair were handled by

the Young Social Alliance at Providence.

ide affair vere handied by

Informant advised

that in addition to Gibson's talk three films were

shown depicting scenes

and activities in Cuba.

Gibson in his talk, according to the source,

discussed the Cuban revolution and subsequent events in Cuba.

Gibson

stated that the revolution served as a model which showed that the

bourgeois state could be destroyed

and replaced with a militia based

working class:

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

sds

385An 0

-37-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 26

---

## Page 27

C

(continued)

SECRET

The

"Evening Bulletin," a Providence, Rhode Island daily

newspaper, in its 1/10/62 edition advertised that Gibson would speak

at the above meeting sponsored by the Brown University Student FPCC.

BS rpt. 3/5/62 (NY 100-133479)

‹Re: Young. Socialist Alliance of

Boston

IS-SWP

100-427226-383 p. 18

(18)V

On 1/26/62 CG 5933-S advised that Richard Gibson

was the

featured speaker at a city-wide FPCC meeting held on 1/19/62 at

410 South Mich Av.,

Chicago.

Source reported that Gibson discussed

what he termed

a smear campaign on the part of the press throughout

US concerning the FPCC.

Gibson recommended

that all FPCC members

read up on Latin American history and stressed that members should be

well informed on the Cuban situation.

On 9/7/61 CG 6471-S/advised

: Gibson was Acting Executive

Secretary of the FPCC, 799 Broadway, NY 3, NY.

Add. info.

CG rpt. 12/18/62

Re: Isadore A. Bernstein

SM-SHP

100-434414-3 p. 10,18

(18)V

that through routine

Apore, on of ination a ta ta oration Airport routin

considerable quantity of material pertaining to the July 26th Movement

in NY was disclosed.

In this material was located a letter sent from

the Tampa Chapter of the FPCC, P.0. Box 13847, Tampa, Florida, dated

3/2/61 to "Dear Dick," and was

The correspondence was

about the questionable character of an unidentified individual. (letter

set out).

(continued on next page)

-38-

SECRET

NW 45793

DocId: 32339258

Page 27

---

## Page 28

(continued)

SEBREL

TP-27-S advised on 1/26/62 that in all probability the

Dick mentioned in the above letter was Richard Gibson, Acting Executive

Secretary, FPCC, 799 Broadway, NYC.

This informant described Ted

Lee as Chairman

of the FPCC - Tampa Division. *

-(И)

On 12/26/61 CG 6259-S advised that at a meeting of the

Council of the Chicago chapter

of the FPCC on

that date a letter

from Gibson was read

in which Gibson mentioned that the Tampa

chapter had been dissolved after the FBI closed up the 26th Movement

there and that Ted. Lee, the former chairman of the Tampa chapter,

was then living with Gibson

in NY and working with the national

office.

4

TP rpt. 3/20/62 (NY 109-81)

Re: July 26 Movement Tampa,

Florida

IS-Cuba

RA - Cuba

97-4455-26/р. 5,7,16

(14427)1

(u)

On 1/29/62LNY 3164-Stadvised that on 1/27/62 Richard Gibson,

Acting National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, had stated that "a

couple of days ago" there had been

an article in the "NY Times"

stating that Robert Taber, National Executive Secretary of the FPCC;

was planning to return to

the US from Cuba. Gibson, according to the

informant,

stated that Taber was very homesick.

He further stated

that should Taber retürn to the US, undoubtedly (Senator) Eastland

would

subpoena him to testify before his Senate Committee almost

immediately.

Informant said that Gibson was of the opinion that if Taber

came back to the US, he, Gibson, would be "off the hook" for all FPCC

activities, even those which took place while Taber was in Cuba.

Gibson's reasoning was that Taber would be responsible for the

consequences of any FPCC activities because he held a higher office

in the organization than Gibson. & (U)

Informant advised that Gibson had also stated that Taber's

wife and others advised against such a return by Taber but Taber felt

that he could return to the US quietly.

NY airtel,

1/29/62 (NY 97-1792)

enclosing letterhead memo

Re: Robert Bruce Taber

RA-Cuba

_97-1223<15 p. 1, enc1. p. 1,2

(12) V

4

-39-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SEEREI

On 11/14/61 NY 3253-S* advised that William Worthy was in

contact with an employee of

the FPee office in NY on 11/14/61. This

person toid Worthy that Richard Gibson, Acting Executive Secretary

of the FFCC,

would like to have Worthy appear at a rally on 12/12/61

in NYC. Worthy advised that he had to decline Gibson's

because of his speaking schedule: U

invitation

On 2/8/62 NY 3229-S advised that on that date an

executive meeting of the NY Chapter of the FPCC was held at FPCC

Hagrs. NYC.

According to informant,

Gibson said that a proposed

FPÔC advertisement in the "NY Times" would cost approximately $2,500

and that Worthy had offered to pay for the advertisement if the

amount would be returned to him within one month.

Gibson said that

if Worthy paid for the ad, the "NY Times" would not be aware that the

FPCC placed the ad.

Add. info.

NY rpt. 3/15/62 (NY 100-114769)

Re: William Worthy, Jr.

IS-Cuba

SM- C

105-20110-145 p. 9,10,19,237

(20)!

On 2/13/624 NY 3161-Stadvised that Richard Gibson, Acting

National Executive Secretary of the FPCC, advised the source on 2/12/62

(place not

somewhere in Miami where she was very active with a counters

that Gloria Ann Rosalie Gerhardt was then living

revolutionary movement, having become strongly anti-communist

in

attitude as a result

of her experiences in Cuba.

4

NY letter, 3/1/62 (NY 105-51309)

Re: Gloria Ann Rosalie Gerhardt

IS- Cuba

105- 109616-10

(25) V

-10-

NW 45793 DocId:32339258 Page 29

---

## Page 30

SECRET

On 5/8/62 a NY Office confidential mail box contained the

February - March, 1962 issue of the "Vanguard," a publication published

by the Provisional Organizing Committee For a Marxist - Leninist CP.

(POC) (place not given). An article entitled "Trotskyism is Counter

Revolution - POC Answers Richard Gibson's Letter" appeared

on page 4

of this issue.

According to the article, "Mr. Richard Gibson, acting

exten tre deto eat a cop toe to aguard mous

The article also stated "Due to questions raised by Mr. Gibson it 15

necessary that our National Committee once again make clear ------

our position on Cuba" (copy of article set out).

Add. info.

NY rpt. 7/31/62 (NY 100-136078) *

Re: Provisional Organizing Committee

For A Marxist - Leninist

IS-C

100-429200-534 p. 23,14,45

(18)V

TP 27-S on 3/6/62 advised he had seen correspondence

-

V. I. Lee; and a letter addressed "To Whom it May Concern" from

husband, Mario Iglesias, all concerning Sylvia Iglesias

attempts to obtain

permission to go to Cuba. * (U)

According to this source, the letter from Gibson suggested

that lee get a copy of "the letter from the State Department or

Immigration" and send it to the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)

and indicated he, Gibson, had been in contact with Melvin . Wulf, XU

Assistant Legal Director of the ACLU, regarding this matter.

TP rpt.: 4/27/62

Re: Sylvia Iglesias, nee: Cagnina,

aka.

IS -Cuba

105-104281-6 P. 1

4.

(25)V

SENET

-41-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 30

---

## Page 31

SECRET

June Cobb, who was employed in the office of fidel Castro

and who was in charge of English publications in Cuba during 1960,

advised on 4/3/62, when interviewed at Wro that she felt sure Lyle

Stuart was not a

'drop" whereby Cuban funds were channeled into the

FPCC. She pointed out that this was not necessary since she had heard

funds came from

Cuba to Robert Taber and Richard Gibson for the FPCC.

Cobb stated that Taber and Gibson were well liked in Cuba.

said that Taber was in the "hills" with Castro and that Gibson was

considered, advantageously, as a Negro agitator in the US. Cobb

stated that Teresa Casuso, former Cuban Ambassador to the UN, would

be a person to interview

goncerning Cuban funds sent to Taber and

Gibson of the FPCC.

S(4)

Cobb related that "communists" tried to get Stuart

eliminateá from FPCC and denounced him as a "red-baiter." Gibson,

according to cobb, portected stuart, eliminated the "communists"

and held on to Stuart

WFO airtel, 4/3/62 (NY 100-90251;

97-1724)

Re: Lyle Stuart

IS-Cuba

RA - Cuba

SM- C

105-10439-109 p. 2,4

(20)V

On 4/9/62 NY 3467-S advised that LeRoi Jones, President

of the NY Chapter of the FPeC, attended a meeting of the Executive

Committee of the NY Chapter of the FPCC which was held at the office

of the FPCC in NY on 4/4/62.

Informant advised that Jones presided

over the meeting in

the absence of Richard Gibson. 4

Add. info, according to NY 3229-S and duplicate informant.

NY rpt. 5/29/62 (NY 100-133629)

Re: Everett Leroy Jones,

aka.

SM-C

IS-Cuba

100-425307-29 p. 3, 4,8

(17)V

SECRET

sds

- 42-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258

Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

This reference in the file captioned "Andre John Martinsons,

Acting National Executive

numerous meetings and

affairs concerning the FPCC and kept in

close contact with each other

in conjunction with the operations

of the FPCC in NY.

NY rpt. 10/1/62 (NY 100-138737)

Re: Andre John Martinsons, aka.

IS -Cuba

(28-282238-29 p- 15,16,53, 19,22,27

NK 1913-S advised on 6/17/62 that a public FPCC meeting

was held on' 6/16/62 at 108 Clinton Ave., Newark. Informant further

advised that Richard Gibson,

Acting

Executive Secretary of the FPCC,

was the speaker at this meeting.

4

Add. info.

NK rpt. 11/29/62

Re: Harold Verb, aka.

IS-Cuba

SM.- SWP

105-102029-16 p. 4,5

(24)1

This reference in the file captioned "Cuban American

Civil Rights Committee" (CACRC) set out lengthy information concerning

activities of Richard Gibson in connection with the CACRC. The

CACRC was formed through the alleged efforts of several pro-Castro

and communist organizations in the NY area to serve as an ad hoc

committee to call attention to the alleged violation of the civil

rights of Cuban Americans in NY, iJ and Fla.

Gibson attended meetings of the CACRC held at the FPCC hagrs.

in NY, discussed the organization at various times, was named as a

member of the publicity and press

committees of the

CACRC and collected

$120.00 for the CACRC.

NY rpt. 7/9/62 (NY 105-56134)

Re: Cuban American Civil Rights

Committee

IS-Cuba

105-411370-8 p. 2,5-7,14

(25/28)V

4

- 44-

NW 45793

DocId: 32339258

Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECREN

TP-27-S made available a letter which Ted Lee sent to

Harold Wilson, Tampa, on 7/25/62.

Lee in the letter stated that the

"mighty chieftain"

had left the field for a week and had left Lee

with power of attorney to conduct affairs in his absence. Lee further

stated that it was time for the annual mass demonstration at the UN

on 7/26/62 andy little game of tag and I'm it."

"the gucanos and police would be out in force to settle

some issues.

• a ta and in 14, 0 our 2g

* (U)

It was noted that the

probably Richard Gibson.

*(ference to the mignty chiertain as.

TP-27-S identified Lee as

the founder and former chairman

of the Tampa. Bay Chapter FPCC, who had been in NY since January, 1962

working with the National lidars. Of the FPC. X (U)

TP letter 8/15/62 (NY 105-16848)

Re: Vincent Theodore Lee,

aka

IS- Cuba

RA- Cuba

105-96362-30 p.1

(23)V

OTHER

_On 10/12/62

New Hampshire,

Boston Panel Source

had furnished reliable information in

past, (protect identity) furnished a copy of a letter dated 9/28/62 and

signed by Willard and Ola Uphaus:

The letter sets forth the events

and activities which took place at the World Fellowship, Inc. (WFI)

Summer Camp, Conway, New Hampshire, during the Summer,

1962. The letter

disclosed that Richard Gibson was a speaker at the Summer Camp.

On 9/26/62, NH 337-S made available a printed pamphlet

(u)

distributed through the mail by the wFI.

The pamphlet listed 01a

Uphaus, wife of Willard Uphaus, as Assistant to the Director of WFI.

On 11/6/62, Fred Thomas, 62 Edgewood Ave., New Haven, Conn.

(protect identity) advised that Willard Uphaus resided at 66 Edgewood

Ave., New Haven, Conn. and was Executive Director of the WEI.

Add. info.

NH rpt. 11/23/62 (NY 105-13658)

Re: World Fellowship, Inc.

ISA of 1950

IS-C

61-9200-251 p. 9,10,13,19

(1) V

sds

SECRET

-45-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 33

---

## Page 34

32616

The 9/4/62 late city edition of the "NY Times" page 21

contained an article entitled "pro-Castro Group Here Bids US Meet

Now With Cubans."

The article stated that the FFCC urged the US

and Cuba to negotiate "at any level" so

as to reduce

"dangerous

tensions in

the Caribbean which threatened world peace" (date and

place not given). u

Richard Gibson, acting executive secretary of the FPeC,

accorcing to the article

expressed the conviction that the Aug. 24

shelling

of Havana from the sea by Cuban exiles was "part of a

concerted effort by Cuban counter-revolutionaries and their American

accomplices: to provoke a war between the two countries."

97-4196-A "NY Times" 9/4/62 p. 21 U

(7) V

head of the FPCC,

o R01/62 E, a de that chard it to

on

several occasions (dates not given) during the past in an effort

to see Francisco Portela. Informant advised that Portela appeared

to be avoiding Gibson and on one occasion Portela indicated he did

not trust Gibson and did not wish to have contact with him.

On 10/23/62 NY 3164-S advised that the office of PL

located in Room 367 at the Uy Secretariat building, NY, NY. &

On 9/12/62 NY 3400-S advised that Francisco Portela,

naturalized American,

employed as Chief Correspondent at the

PL office in NY, NY.

Add. info.

NY fpt. 12/21/62 (NY 105-36926)

Re:" Prensa Latina

RA-Cuba

105-80145-726 p. 12,16 4

(21)V

22002

-16-

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 34

---

## Page 35

SECRET

NY 3164-S1oh 9/17/62 reported that on 9/16/62 Sara Gibson,

wife of Richard Gibson, advised that she

was attempting to raise funds

so that she could join

her husband, Richard Gibson, in Algeria.

On 1/23/62 NY 3467-S reported that at a meeting of the

Social Committee, NY Chapter

FPCC, held at FPCC offices, NiC, or

1/16/62, Sara Gibson was chosen chairman of the Social Committee.

treasurer of the NY Chapter, FPCC, called a meeting (date and place

not given) to discuss the question of the sudden departure of Richard

Gibson and to discuss the relation of the NY Chapter to the National

According to this source, Lee read a letter to those

ot de was trans ta go the operations Of the nation a brice at the

FPCC to Lee.

NY 3467-S on 9/17/62 advised that Seltzer was in attendance

at arFPCC forum held at Adelphi Hall, NYC, on 9/17/62. According to

Te departure of a on chapter, Co, to not on 5/82 one erning le

NY 3229-S advised on 10/4/62 that Vincent Ted Lee

former head or the recc in rampa, the pesition been maste sted head

of the National Chapter, FPCC, in

Richara Gibson,

National Executive Secretary, FPCC,

had departed the US for Algeria.

Add. info.

NY rpt. 12/13/62 (NY 105-45965)

Re: Lawrence Steven Seltzer aka.

IS -Cuba

105-109192-6 p. 3-5,8

(25) V

On 10/15/62 TP 27-S advised that Mrs. Amor, wife of Manuel

at a meeting of the FPCC held at the Amor's home in Clearwater.

morida on 10/13/62 read a letter she had received from

Lee stated that Richard Gibson was

in charge of the FPCC.

TP rpt. 10/25/62

Re: Manuel Amor, aka.

IS-Cuba

105-111992-4 p. 3

(26) V

4

-47-

SECRET

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 35

---

## Page 36

SECRET

The following references are reports furnished by Bureau

informants as set out below, concerning the activities of Richard

Gibson in connection with the FPCC.

Gibson, Acting National Executive

Secretary of the FPCC and also Executive Secretary of the Liberation:

Committee for Africa, with hdars. at NYc, attended numerous FPCO

meetings and spoke at many of them.

INFORMANT

DATE AND PLACE

REFERENCE

OF REPORT

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

/ BA-38

5/26/61 Detroit

137-93-1593 P. P.1

(26)

BA- 40

5/16/61 Detröit

134-9602-50 p.1,2

(cc: NY (FPCC)

(26)

BA-40

• 10/22/61 Detroit

134-9602-86 p.2,3

(NY 97-1792)

(26) V

Acting Executive Secretary of the National Office of the FPCC, in

conjunction with captioned organization in the NY area.

DESCRIPTION OF SERIAL

SERIAL NUMBER

NY rpt. 11/13/61

NY rpt. 2/14/62

IM letter 2/19/62

NY rpt. 5/2/62

NY rpt. 9/20/62

511 p. 14

722 p. 19,33

741 p.2,5

815 p.5

836 p. 1,2,5,15

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(2)

(211

(2) V

(211

(2)N

41

sds

- 49-

SECRET

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 36

---

## Page 37

SECRET

(continued)

DESCRIPTION OF SERIAL

State Dept. Inter-office

Communication, 8/1/61

and enclosures thereto

NY letter, 7/31/61

enclosing

letterhead

memo

TP rpt. 8/18/61

cot. 8/21/61 enclosing

IRCMP letter dated

8/17/617 (SECRET)

LA rpt. 8/28/61

8/23/61

NY airtel' letterhead

enclosing

memo

WFO rpt. 8/31/61

CIA letter, 9/1/61

SECRET)

NY airtel,

8/30/61

enclosing letterhead

memo

CG letter, 9/15/61

NY airtel,

9/22/61

enclosing

memo

letterhead

NY airtel, 10/4/61

enclosing letterhead

memo

NY rpt. 10/4/61

REFERENCE NUMBER

7-4196-019 p. 1 Encl.

L, 12, 13, 11,20

623 Enc1. p. 3

624 p: 2

625 Enc1. p. 1

SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(4) V

(4)

(4) V

(4) V

(x)

628 p. 1-4.

629 Enc1. p. 1,2

631 p. 1,3

632 p. 1

634 p. 1, Encl.

p. 1,2

637 p. 1-3

642 Encl. p. 1

648 Encl. p. 1

(4) V

(4) V

(4) V

(4) V (%)

(4) 1

(4) V

(4) 1

(5)

1585201

657

P.

1-10, 9-17,

19-21,23-25,27,

31,53,58,60-65,

1 20:781.02,

SECRET

142-144, 148,155

-51-

(continued on next page)

105-93072-100

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 37

---

## Page 38

SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

The following references on Richard Gibson, located in files

maintained in the Special File Room of the Files and

Communications

Division, Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE NUMBER

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

64-330-210-858

7(5)

(2)

105-89923-A "NY Times" 3/24/61

(22)

4

The following reference was not available during the time

this summary was being prepared.

REFERENCE NUMBER

105-21126-2

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(20) V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

ng in F1 s

Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

4

4

-61-

SECRET

SEGRET

NW 45793 DocId: 32339258 Page 38

---

