# docid-32271496

## Page 1

V09-16-96cCI

JFK RECORDS

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10192

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 23-22-04

Other Agency Equity: None

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

-Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : ESCA

FROM

TO

TITLE : ESCA PROCEDURAL WRITE-UP: MEXICO TRIP 2

DATE: 00/00/00

PAGES:

10

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

SUBJECT (S)

ESCA, TRIP TO MEXICO;

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/08/95

COMMENTS : BOX 13

Date in: 01/26/96.

TTFFF

'FEF

FFFFFFF

HH

53080

DocId: 32271496

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Append 73: HSCA Procedural Write-U

Mexico Trip?

House Select Committee staffers Edwin Juan Lopez

and Harold Leap traveled to Mexico City on August 7, 1978.

The staff members were met by David T. Patton at the Mexican

airport at 10:15 P.M. Mr. Patton then checked the staffers

into room 1754, stready chosen, at the Maria Isabel Hotel in

Mexico City. Mr. Patton told Committee staffers that Larry

steinfiela wished he

see us at 8:30 A.M. the following morning.

On Tuesday, August 8, 1978, Committee staffers met

with Larry Steinfiela, (CIA Chief of Station in Mexico City

He informed the staffers that the two individuals the Committee

Panie,

wishesto interview, Danny Flores, AKA Luis Aparicio ano

nou

Ramon Alvarez Dutant, were ready frai libl

At 9:30 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

interviewed Danny Flores. (See write-up of Danny Flores

interview.)

The interview ended at approximately 10:15 A.M.

committee staff members returned to Mr. Steinfield's

office, Mr. Steinfield stated that it appeared that the

beenableto

Graces had only located two witnesses for the committee,

w/.

Oscar Contreras Lartigue and Noe W. Palomares.

He asked

whom

the staff members wished to speak

Committee staff members

explained

that they would at son

me like to interview

Extrase

Mr name sare

LIchant I, Licookie I, Latuscesa

Latamil 7 and Litamil 9

Steinfield stated that it appeared

that

the House Select Com-

mittee on Assassinations had already asked the Mexicans to

locate them.

Mr. Steinfield stated that the HSCA's interview with

Ramon Alvarez Durant was considered "highly sensitive"

. ¡ He

explained that three rooms at a nearby hotel would be used.

NW 53080 DooId: 32271496 Page 2

---

## Page 3

First Draft

Page Two

In one room, Ramon Alvarez Durant would sit, Committee staff

members would sit in a second room and two CIA personnel

officers would insure that the equipment worked properly in

a third room. Mr. SteInfield then phoned Mr. Niles Gooding,

who had been

sent to the Mexico City Station from Headquarters

The interviewis.

to arrange the procedures

Mr. Gooding explained that in

1977 Stansfield Turner had created a new position at Head-

quarters.

Herexplained that, his position, which the never

asked, was ereated to insure that

amportant sensitive meetings were within the guidelines

Mr. Gooding stated that the Central Intelligence Agency had

Three under greater congressional scrutiny the past two years.

Directer

-Stansfield Turner, wishing to show the Agency's good

faith, had attore megagen

yato lene

act as liaison at sensitive interviews.

plained that we would be escorted by two cIA personnel to

our interview with Ramon Alvarez Durant:

At 10:55 A.M., August 8, 1978, Committee staff members

interviewed Ramon Alvarez Durant. (See Ramon Alvarez Durant

interview write-up.,

At 12:30 P.M., Committee staff members telephoned

Captain Fernandez Ventura Gutierrez. His secretary explained

that

Mr. Ventura was not in the office, but that she would

have him call

us when he returned. At 6:30 P.M., since Mr.

Ventura had not yet returned the staffers call, they again

called

his office. His secretary apologized for Mr. Ventura

and explained that he had not yet returned to the office and

she assured us that he would telephone upon his return. At

53080 DocId: 32271496 Page 3

arranged

---

## Page 4

First Draft

Page Three

does.

make

1+

ndi ute

ISLA POUt

censert.

9:15 P.M., DI. Jesus Yañez, the Assistant to the Oficial)Mayor,

telephoned the staff members explaining that Mr. Ventura was

very busy on an important assignment and asked us to visit

the Procuraduria General at 11:00 A.M. the following morning.

At 10:15 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff

members met with State Department Official Richard Howard to

alert him that the Committee would request the Mexican officials

to make sylvia nuran available in meshington for 9 fearind

Mr.

Howard explained that once we had permission from the

Mexican government the State Department would insure that

she

was in Washington when necessary.

At 11:00 A.M., August 9, 1978, Committee staff members

met with Dr. Jesus Yanez and Ciprianio Martinez Novoa.

Mr.

•Yanez: told Committee staff members that Ciprianio Martinez

rot what

Novoa, the agent

in charge

of wicking with the committe?

would try to aid us in all our

interviewshenM

canartinez

ho meat's

then briefed the Committee staff

members on

their

Jup-to-date progress:

Oscar Contreras Lartigue had been located and pre-

interviewed by Mr. Martinez in Tampico, Mexico,

We would

ELy to Tampico on Friday, August 11, 1978 at 7:35 A.M. (ost) hem.

Noe W. Palomares had been located and could be inter-

auristleafternoonof

viewed on Thursday, August 10, 1978 in the afternoon at his

office, Cerrada de la Presa 4. His phone number, 595-0891,

was made available to the Committee.

June cobb sharp received a tafüist permit, number 72781,

on June 27, 1947. She entered Mexico through Nuevo Laredo,

NW 53080 DooId: 32271496

Page 4

---

## Page 5

First Draft

om

Page Four

ver

requested

Texas.

She

by the

asked but was denied permission to represent

the magazine, Modern Mexico.

On June 21, 1948, she received

franchom

a courtesy permit, number 25556.

She disappeared in 1954 and

nover roturned to noxico. Chewis this Known i fate disappene

The Committee staffers did not tell the Mexicans

Mexicans of te 200g

that the House Select Committee on Assassinations

has evidence,

Fune (obb's

her

20 Fire, that she was in Mexico in the Sixties.

on February 9, 1954.

She remained in Mexico, il-

A garn the Mexico grainines

legally residing at Nacas-45-a, until 1972. She applied to

write. for the Excelsior magazine on many different occasions,

but was rejected every time. In 1972, Ms. Odio married a

Communist painter, Rudolfo Sanabria Gonzalez and moved to Rio

Neba-16 apartment 40. On May 24, 1972, Ms. Odio was found

dead in her bathtub. The official presiding at her autopsy

concluded that Ms. Odio had poisoned herself.

Emilio Carballido Fontanes was in Caracas, Venezuela,

on vacation and scheduled to return to Mexico in early

September. His address is Constituyentes 207.

His phone

number is 515-8345.

Personelo feste

Consuelo Esperon's record in Mexico could not be

about her at the

Locan amb way it exist an a too set do thee at red

Cuban Embassy in Mexico City,

that she had worked there.

Committee staff members were told

that Esperon was probably dead, what bai as statement and

INo basis was

e nilssing the Mexican gout

Wichtrich

worked at Royal Crown Cola until 1968

ItS

when

offices in Mexico closed.

HIH

53080 DooId: 32271496 Page 5

---

## Page 6

First Draft

Page Five

or

Carlos Jurado J. Delmar was born in Cuba November

3, 1927. He entered Mexico July 1, 1965 and taught Graphidg

and Art at U.N.A.M. until January 1, 1968 when he disappeared.

The Mexican officials assume that he returned to Cuba.

General Jesus Jose Clark Flores died in the early

1970's.

Ernesto Lehfeld Miller, Academic Coordinator at the

School of Interior Design, had not yet been located.

Luis Alberue Suoto lives at Michelet #7, Apartment

#301, Cionõia Aneura, Mexico City. His phone number is

545-9947 The Landlady at his apartment explained to the

Mexican officials that Mr. Alberue had left town hurriedly

on Monday, August 7, 1978. Mr. Martinez, wishing to know

when he returned, had placed

a piece of scotch tape on the

bottom right edge of his door:

Mr Martinez explained that

he checked it every four hours and would notify us if Alberue

Ieturned before we left.

Manuel Calvillo did not live at Cuanhtemoc 877-5 as

the Committee had stated. M.

thats a

at the apartment For the past twenty five years, who said that

Told Mr Martinit

no Manuel Calvilto had ever resided.

there.

Committee staff

members

explained that Calvillo went by a pen-name which would

be forwarded the

followino mornina.

to the fleyi con

When Committee staff members inquired

4SCA Whether MS.

Sylvia Tirado Bazan could testify

the hearinga,

the Mexican

officials stated that they would have an answer for the

staffers

by Friday morning. The Mexican officials explained that they

NW 53080 DocId: 32271496

Page 6

---

## Page 7

First Draft

Page SiX

would have to speak to her to insure that she was willing

to travel to Washington.

On Thursday, August 10, 197

Committee staff members

met with DI. Jesus Yanez, Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa,

Capitan Florentino Ventura Gutierrez

and Attorney General

Licensiado Dr.

Breza

11:00 A.M

same

what's

information listed for the 11:00 A.M., August 9, 1978,

thomato

meeting was reviewed. Manuel Calvillo's "pen-name" was given

to the Mexicans who stated that they would check it with the

Landlady * life

allegh apartment busking

Committee staffers returned to their hotel room with

Agent Ciprianio Martinez Novoa after the meeting. Agent

Martinez attempted in vain to telephone Oscar Contreras

Lartigue to inform him of our visit. At 3:30 P.M., Agent

Martinez finally reached Mr. "Contreras' child who informed him

that Mr. Contreras was not in Tampico. He had traveled to

Mexico City for a Pachido Republicano Institucional convention.

When Agent Martinez asked the child if he knew where his

cim

father was staying in Mexico, he responded that he did not.

Agent Martinez explained to the child that he would call at a

later time to speak to his mother.

Agent Martinez telephoned Noe W. Palomares at 4:00 P.M.

and arranged an interview

6:30 P.M. that evening. Mr.

Martinez asked Committee staff members to meet him at his

office at the Procuraduria General at 6:00 P.M.

At 6:00 P.M., August 10, 1978, Committee staff members

late dent Seronio Martine? at the procuraduria Generale

be

drove them to MI. Palomares' office. At 6:30 P.M., Committee

53080

DooId: 32271496

Page 7

---

## Page 8

First Draft

Page Seven

staff members interviewed Noe W. Palomares.

(See Noe W.

Palomares

interview write-up.)

ollow,r

After the interview Agent Martinez returned to th

Maria Isabel Hotel with Committee staff members.

He attemptester o

Took. (TAt 9:45

to reach Mrs. Conteers eat

Tamp ic

twicer withoro

P.M., he finally contacted her.

Mrs. Contreras told Agent

Martinez that Mr. Oscar Contreras had told her that he would

try to get a room at either the Hotel Regis or Hotel San

Francisco. Mrs. Contreras explained that since there were a

few conventions scheduled in Mexico City that weekend she

could not assure that he would be at either.

Mrs. Contreras

told Agent Martinez that she would notify him if her husband

should call.

Mr. Martinez called both hotels and inquired whether

oscar contreras Lartigue was registered.:

He was not registered

al either, they were completely boke lentle hones

Mr. Martinez attempted to

at her home to ask her whether she would be willing to travel

totestessyatattsett

to Washington ora hearing date and to ask whathei

5T

where

Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld Miller could be located.

then dower.

ira

was

not

attempt tobicate

Oscar

Contreros fartige

who

h.

Agent Martinez explained that he would go to the hotel

where the Partido Republicano Institucional

was holding it:

convention early the following morning; after which he would

meet the staff members at 9:30 A.M. at their hotel room.

At 9:45 A.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez met

Committee staffers at their hotel room

and explained that he

NW 53080 DooId: 32271496

Page 8

---

## Page 9

First Draft

Page Eight

was unable to locate Mr. Contreras Lartique at the convention.

Hewlerabouts of

Mr. Martinez then left to check on Mr. Alberue Suoto and Sylvia

Tirado Bazan.

At 12:30 P.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez returned

to the Committee staff members' hotel room. He telephoned

Mrs. Contreras

at tampico who slated that her husband had not

telephoned her since she had

last spoken to Agent Martinez.

At 1:50 P.M., another agent, Honorio Escondon telephoned Agent

Martinez at the Committee staffers' hotel room to inform him

that Luis Alberue Suoto

must be back in town because the scotch

tapers a toget licent dayd P.M., Agent Martinez

duringthephoneconverset.con.

telephoned Luis Alberue Suoto. Alberue denied that he had

worked at the Cuban Embassy in the Sixties, stated that he knew

nothing about the assassination and declined the Committee

staff members' request

to interview him.

At 2:00 P.M., August 11, 1978, Agent Martinez telephoned

Sylvia Duran.

Agent Martinez then gave the telephone to

Committee staffer Lopez. Mr. Lopez asked Mrs. alican

whether

she would be willing to testify sometime in september at &fe

Committee hearing# in Washington; she answered affirmatively.

She stated that September 13th,

14th and 15th would not be

"good days" because the Mexican Revolution celebration would

be taking place and she was a planner and participant.

When

Mr. Lopez asked

Ms. Tirado if she knew Mr. Ernesto Lehfeld

but

Miller's phone number, she stated that she did not.

She stated

tht if we telephoned her ex-husband Horatio at either 516-0398

NW 53080 DooId: 32271496

Page 9

---

## Page 10

First Draft

Page Nine

or 515-8621, he would be able to help us.

At 2:15 P.M., Committee staffer Lopez telephoned

Horatio Duran, who gave him Ernesto Lehfeld Miller's office

phone number, 548-4839. At 2:20 P.M., Lopez telephones Mr.

Miller and arranged a meeting for 9:00 P.M. that evening.

At 2:30 P.M., Agent Martinez teleph new capital the HiSCA

ventura to report on his progressttain.t

When Martinez told Ventura

that he had located Alberue, Ventura asked him if he was

alone. When Agent Martinez lied and stated that he was alone,

Ventura told him that he should under no circumstances allow

us to interview Alberue. When Agent Martinez completed his

phone call, he said "I don't understand why nobody wants you

to talk to him. "

At 9:-0 P.M.,.. August 11; 1978, Committee staffers

interviewed Ernesto Lehfeld Miller. (See Ernesto Lehfeld

Miller interview write-up.

-At: 11:15 A.M.; August: 12, 1978; Committee staffer

Lopez called Luis Alberue Suoto at his home. When Mr. Lopez

dentified himself, Mr. Alberue immediately stated that he

as Matthe exact comment

knew nothing

He further stated that he never worked for the

Cuban Embassy.

When Lopez explained to him that employees at

the Cuban Embassy had stated that he had been employed there,

Mr. Suoto hung up. Mr. Alberbue's voice quivered throughout

the short talk.

that she had thoughtlabout traveling to washington

all night

She said that she had seen a report in thelupers wilave' Azcue

had stated that the man who visited the Cuban Consulate in 1963

HIH

53080 DocId: 32271496 Page 10

---

## Page 11

First Draft

Page Ten

was not lee Harvey oswald. She stated that Azcue had only seen

oswald

him once while she had seen him "at least three times". When

Lopez said, "At least three times?", Mrs. Duran said, "Three

times, you know?" She further stated that if she testified

in Washington and the Committee concluded that she was lying

she would be crucified when she returned to Mexico.

Mr.

Lopez reassured her and explained tha he would send her a

long letter explaining procedures when he returned to Washington.

At 12:05 P.M., Agent Martinez met the Committee staff

members at the airport.

He stated that Contreras and Calvillo

locates.

had not been föwed The Committee staffers gave Martinez a

list of questions to ask Oscar Contreras Lartigue. Agent

Martinez stated that he would mail the results of the interview

to topez at the committee orrices in mashington 7h heiral

The Committee staif members left Mexico City at.

any anne

1:55. P.M. and arrived at washington's Dulles Airport at-10:35 guit

P.м.

rengament:

14 53080

DocId: 32271496

Page 11

---

