# docid-32289865

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10202-10141

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-580

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/19/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289865

209

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the

Tohn

I. Kennety Assassination

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 19,1962

TELETYPE

tel

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLousa

Mr. Evans Ar

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room._

Miss Holmes_

Miss. Gandy_

DEFERRED 7-19-62

8-03 PM

JLS

TO PIRECTOR, FET 192-31831

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ IP

GUS PALEX, AKA AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FIVE FOUR THREE DASH C DASH TE HAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED

THAT ALEX OWNED PART OF THE CLUB ROUGE, A STRIP, JOINT IN THE LOOP

AREA. OF CHICAGO, UNDER CONTROL OF HIS ASSOCIATE, LOUIS ARGER, AND

..THAT ONE JOE SMITH WAS THE FRONT MAN IN OWNERSHIP OF THE CLUB.

INFORMANT NOW ADVISES THAT SMITH HAS BEEN REPLACED AND IS PRESENTLY

UNEMPLOVEDO PERSON NOW OPERATING CLUE IS ENU PLATT, WHO AS

FORMERLY CONNECTED WITH THE CROSSROADS RESTAURANT IN THE CHICAGO

LOOP. INFORMANT HAS ALSO REPORTED THAT. PAYROLL CHECKS

FOR THE CLUB

ROUGE COME FOR THE CROSSROADS•

INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED ONE CHUCK LNU, WHO ALSO WORKED AT THE

CLUB ROUGE AS FLOORMAN AND FURTHERED ALEX-S INTEREST THERE, HAS ALSO

BÉEN FIRED HE SAID ALEX WAS ONCE SEEN DRIVING A CADILS

BELONGINE TO CHUCK• EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO LOCATE AND INTERVIE

JOE SMITH AND. CHUCK INU CONCERNING ALEX-S ALLEGED

JUTEREST T

2Q 1962

CLUB ROUGE.

JOK

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END

• ACK PLS

WA

25.37 WA RL

TU DISC M

DocId: 32289865 Page 2

---

