# docid-32161721

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under

the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54046

Date: 08-23-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10144-10082

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-109060-1ST NR 90

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BAUMGARDNER. F.J.

TO: SULLIVAN. W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 11/25/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

LHO, POST-RP, FPCC, CP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54046

DocId: 32161721

Page 1

---

## Page 2

168

Sr, W. C, Bullivon

11/85/08

Conte

Antiatri

E. F. J. Kaungardner

Dr.

Mr o

Lix.

Belnont

Roden

Bulliven

Đ3A

INVERNAL 8ES03T1N - C

JOHNE

BOLASCIRATICH

11/22/35

1

5/70

C0n4gan 10-5-973

Carloy

480%

ASSAULT

TEXAS

OU A FEDIMAL OUFICES

.DD/KSR

Descart eu

oK Sports

tho ovaning of 11/24/03 A called our Nou Tort Offico

and told thon thot loo Covald had boon correntonding uith cortain

Party londero and instructad our Ney

Fosk Office to nono evory esfort

to obtala any ouch corrospondonco.

at 8:65 p.H., 11/25/68, ASAC Roney of our New Torli-088800

cated and surnached the following Intormation, U

5m 3003- 3advtsod this dato that unon enominine old (Al)

diosation notobookn noed by hor at Coomunict Party hondquartorb

to her enrly la Sorteabor,

Intornant atoted that in

hos horthond sotos no date appearo nor doeo tho full name of Ocuale

appoar mor does hão realdenco budrose sypeas.

reada es follouoy

the body of the letter

LAS0

SHOWD

"Dos Mix.

Osvald:

Tour lottor of Auguot 20 ta

Eltsaboth Gurley Flynn vas turned over to Do for reply.

Banco 3

rocolved your lotter of Baptember 1 Indioating you aro noving to

Baltinore, I cureent that whon you do that, that you got in touch

in that city.

"hilo the point you ante about your rooidonce in tho

soviot Union night be utilined by cono peoplo, 1 chint you havo to

recornino that an an Anorican altanen tho io my in thia country.

jou nevo a richt to participate Le buch organisationo ao vou decida.

the samo time thoro aro a

numbor of organisations, acluding

the Fair Play for Cuba Gmaittoo, thith ard of a very broad chernotes

ofton 1t lo advioablo for sono peoplo to ronain in tho backguoupe,

nos the undorground. /

(u)

10003

42= 109061

NCT RACORURLI

Farta (0)

CLASSEN BA

C MEXEMPT: ROM

OS CATEGORY-

atacante-m

DATE OF DECLASS

FICATION INDEFINITEDEGA

1904

768SL0 GeL

54046

DocId: 32161721

Page

. 2

---

