# docid-32305795

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10425

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2416

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/25/1968

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, THREE SLAYINGS, GENOVESE, LUCHESE FAMILIES,

SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32305795

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of

'DATE: ' 11-14-2017

MWA. 2

1992-144, 150

FIEXYH2/-, / 6

VIA TELETYPE

AUG 2 5 1968

ENCIPHERE

NT. T'OiSOn

1 Mr. DeLoache

Mr. Mohr

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Enrad,

Mr. Folt.

Mr. Rollivan.

Mi. Sa

Trotter®

Room.

Miss

Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

• Hotel.

WA 2

FBI NEW YORK

5: 50 PM URGENT 8-25-68

BAB

91.0

TO DIRECTOR 92-5054

FROM NEW YORK 92-2300 4P PLAINTEXT

OLA COSA NOSTRA ; ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY.

REFERENCE NEW YORK TELETYPES IO BUREAUBRA, AUGUST.

SIXTEEN AND TWENTY THREE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHI.

ON NIGHT OF AUGUST IWENTY THREE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHT,

NY FOUR THREE THREE SIX - C -TE ACTE ADVISED THAT THE BODY OF

CHARLES GAGLIODOTTO, AKA "CHALUTZ", FBI NUMBER FIVE NINE ZERO:

THREE SIX SIX, PROMINENT MEMBER OF THE GENOVESE "FAMILY" OF

LA

COSA NOSTRA (LON), HAD BEEN FOUND IN QUEENS COUNTY, NYC,

AND WAS BEING WAKED AT THE FUNERAL HOME OF PASQUALE ALA VECCHIA,

TWO SEVEN THREE MOTT STREET, NYC, BEGINNING THE NIGHT OF

AUGUST TWENTY THREE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHT,.

WITH BURIAL ON

AUGUST TWENTY SIX, ONE NINE SIX EIGHT.

INFORMANT STATED THAT A MEDICAL EXAMINERIVOR QUEENS i I

COUNTY HAD CERTIFIED:

THAI

GAGLIODOTTO HAD

ATTACK"•

URa SP

END PAGE ONE

8 seni

EX-100

I SEP 16 1968

MR- DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

OLSEP 1 91968

DocId: 32305795

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 21U7 Hote)

DATE:

PAGE TWO

AS NOTED IN REFERENCED TELETYPE OF AUGUST TWENTY

THREE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHT, NY FOUR THREE THREE SIX - C - TE

HAD ADVISED "CHALUTZ", WHO HAD PERSONALLY SLAIN FRANK TUMINARO,

FBI NUMBER TWO FOUR THREE SIX FIVE EIGHT C, AND FRANK JOSEPH

GANGI, FBI NUMBER SEVEN ONE SEVEN EIGHT TWO SIX A, ON THE

NIGHT OF AUGUST NINE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHI, IN NYC, WAS HIMSELF

MURDERED ON PRINCE STREET, NYC, ON THE NIGHT OF AUGUST

TWENTY ONE, ONE NINE SIX EIGHT, IN RETALIATION.

INFORMANT ADVISED ON AUGUST TWENTY THREE, ONE NINE

SIX EIGHT, THAT "CHALUIZ" HAD BEEN CHOKED OR SUFFOCATED BY

USE OF A PLASTIC BAG PLACED OVER HIS HEAD TO MAKE HIS DEATH

APPEAR "NATURAL". THIS INFORMATION WAS PERSONALLY FURNISHED

BY SAC RICHARD J. BAKER ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS IO ACTING CHIEF OF

DETECTIVES CHARLES MC LOUGHLIN, NEW YORK CITY POLICE

DEPARTMENI (NYCPD), AND INSPECTOR ROBERI MC GOWAN, COMMANDING OFFICER

R OF THE CENTRAL

INVESTIGATIONS BUREAU , NYCPD, ON AUGUST TWENTY THREE,

ONE NINE SIX EIGHT. THIS INFORMATION WAS ALSO FURNISHED ON

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32305795 Page 3

---

