# docid-32309117

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10244

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-871

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBi

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/10/1962

2

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32309117 Page 1

230

---

## Page 2

UREAU OF A. ¡ESTIGATION:

PARTMENT OF JUSTICE

JICATIONS SECTION

SEP 1 11962

TELETYPE

slot

sir. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callghan.

Di Corac

DeLose

Mr. Evans_

Mr Malone.

Mr. Sutivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

9-10-62

2-15 AM

EMM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO / 92-349/

Anti-racketeering

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA.,

AR. DAILY

PorenaTime

Leciming

ADVISED INSTANT THAT HE MET WITH CHARLES AND SAPOTHER 4

-..

ENGLISH AT THE FIFTH JACK CLUB, CHICAGO, SEPTEMBER SEVEN LAST. NOTED

THAT THE ENGLISHES ARE CHICAGO TOP HOODLUMS. CHARLES ENGLISH OPERATES

LORMAR RECORD DISTRIBUTORS, CHICAGO, AND IS GIANCANA LIEUTENANT AND

BUSINESS PARTNER. PURPOSE OF PCI MEETING WITH ENGLISHES WAS FOR PUSHING

INFORMANT-S SINGER, JANE DARWIN, AS RECORDING STAR. INFORMANT HAS STATED

HE HAS ASCERTAINED NO ONE CAN ATTAIN SUGESS IN JUKE BOX FIELD IN CHICAGO

AREA WITHOUT SANCTION OF ENGLISH. DURING CONFERENCE WITH ENGLISHES,

PCI WAS ADVISED BY THEM THAT CHARLES ENGLISH OWNES NINETY PER CENT OF

PLAZA RECORDS, AND MAINTAINS ABSOLUTE CONTROL OF JUKE BOXES AND RECORDS

PLAYED ON THEM.

ENGLISH WAS IMPRESSED BY INFORMANT-S SINGER AND DESIRED HER TO BE

HEARD BY GIANCANA. ON SEPTEMBER EIGHT LAST, INFORMANT-S SINGER APPEARED

AT WEDDING RECEPTION

HELD AT PALMER HOUSE HOTEL WHICH WAS ATTENDER!

ACCORDING TO INFORMANT, MOST OF CHICAGO-S HOODLUMS, INCLUDING GIANCANA,

WHO WAS WITH

CHARLES ENGLISH. GIANCANA WAS IMPRESSED

SINGER AND AGREED THAT SHE SHOULD BE

HANDLED THROUGH

END

ON

ALL INFORMATICEN CONTAINED

HEREIN 16 UNCLASSINED.

& SEP 21 1y6((W)

DATE4/20/84 BYSPSPra/Bu

• NW 45792 DocId: 32309117 Page 2

---

