# docid-32327723

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).*

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90065-10009

HQ

CR 105-119917-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE : :11

DATE: 06/13/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CUBANOS LIBRES

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: AT, REFERRED TO USCG

49:1

DocId: 32327723

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-78-36948v, 12-13-561

CARDS

AIL

FBI

Date:

6/13/63

Transmit the following in

Via

SHOWN

RE

indis

AIRTEL

IQ:

2FROM:

SUBJECT:

<

LE MA SULI

EWED 3Y

LEASE IN PART

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

MAIL

SET

Priories or Method of Mailins CA HAS NO PSIECTION TO

--- DEGIACENT

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-119917)

REL

M ORMATION

SAG, MIAMI (105-7452) (105-7635) 6

(205-7452) (105-7635) C HiS 115-98

CUBANOS. LIBRES, aka.

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA; NM

MANUEL QUIZA DOCAL

- CUBA; NM

2/22-95.

THAC KSR

Classified by

Declassify on:

:

Miami

Miami teletypes, 6/12/63. 4.

DECLASSIFIED SY

1-24-98

5e68 solse

JFK)

Enclosed are twelve copies of letterhead memorandum,

dated and captioned as above, setting forth details of infor-

mation furnished by retels for dissemination.

Miami will follow progress of case through liaison

with U. S. Customs.

On 6/13/63, WALLACE SHANLEY, U. S. Customs, in charge

of enforcement, advised that the question as to whether the

individuals involved in this matter would be prosecuted was

in the hands of the State Department and that as of that time

he had no information as to what the decision might be.

180

Enclosed memorandum has been classified "Secret"

because it contains information from a CIA memorandum,]

classified.

BEG. 107. /05-119917=

Miami

WMD: mgw

(7)

Copy to: CIA/Staté/Rest

Yeagly /Customs/Const Ginal MOM

ON/OSI/ACSI /DA/E JUN I 1963

by routing slip for into.

Date. 4/12/63

bY CUHN/St

C C. Wick

Special dent in Charge

DocId: 32327723 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Vee'd in Recordin

6-25

JUN 181963

t.......

JUN !? 10 02 AM '63

HEDO

...C.T.

FOR A

Ru.:

SHCA

seide

M0...

DocId: 32327723 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Tohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-7452

SECRET

For the information of the Bureau, on 6/11/63,

during a conversation relative to the whereabouts of

QUIZA and his group, Lt. AARON ROGERS, U. S. Coast Guard

Intelligence Oftice, confidentially advised that QUIZA was

quite "sharp" and had been to see Customs about removing

their fisur.

It is to be noted that SHANLEY of Customs advised

on 6/9/63 that Customs had about an "80%" surveillance on

QUIZA's boat, as of the evening of 6/7/63, when they lost

the surveillance. SHANLEY was obviously upset and embarrassed

by the disappearance of the boat. SHANLEY had previously

indicated the boat located at Dinner Key Yacht Basin was

under a close surveillance at a considerable expenditure of

manpower •

ROGERS related that QUIZA had gone to Customs,

told them he was not going anywhere and that there was no

need to wate their men's time.

He said he needed at least

15 hours on his new engine before he would be ready to go.

ROGERS said that Customs kept the check on anyway but

indicated that it was somewhat relaxed, as a consequence of

which QUIZA was able to depart.

In addition, inconfirmation of the above, EDDIE

MOR RUIZ was contacted at 10:00 A. M., Friday, 6/7/63,

according to a previous arrangement.

QUIZA was expected to

have been present also and that both would be taken to the

Miami Office in an effort to obtain a signed statement re-

garding their intentions. MOR claimed QUIZA was not well and

could not make the appointment but would appear at 10:00 A. M.

on 6/10/63,

the next Monday. MOR mentioned that "we can't

go anywhere - everytime we take the boats out we have company"

He then said that QUIZA had been down to see Customs to tell

them he was not ready to go and that they just wanted to

test their new engine.

As Bureau was advised in one of retels, QUIZA and

MOR were served with "prevention of Departure Notices" by

INS and consideration being given to serving the other eight.

.*.-2.=

SECKET

DooId: 32327723 Page 4

---

## Page 5

"Released undet the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

- DATES 11-14-2017

....

MM 105-7452

SECDET

A copy of enclosed Letterhead memorandum is

being disseminated locally to the following agencies:

INS

Border Patrol

CIA

U. S. Customs

U. S. Coast Guard

Office of the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs

ONI

OSI

G-2

MM T-2 in enclosed memorandum is MM 776-s.

-3

SECKET

/ DocId: 32327723

Page 5

---

