# docid-32286296

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10072

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/10/1964

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, ACT, TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

19.1

DocId: 32286296

81

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Pleased

under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]".

NATE:

11=11-2017

* 4-3"

Hev. 1-17-63)

AIRGRAM

DECODEDCOPY

O CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conradie

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

a Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy =

11 - 50

IM COS DEFERRED 6-10-64 DHM

TO. DIRECTOR"

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED E

FROM CHICAGO

101926 HEREIN IS UNGLASSIE

DATES 23-34

SAMUEL M

GlANCANA, AKA, AR.

BASes, a

CG 6486-C* ADVISED THAT GIANCANA RETURNED CHICAGO AREAJUNE 9

LAST* MET"AT ARMORY LOUNGE WITH SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS INCLUDING

ASSOCIATES CHUCK ENGLISH, BUTCH BLASI AND ROCCO POTENZOURING

GIANCANA ADVISED THAT HE HAD SEVERAL MEETINGS TO ATTEND EVENING

OF JUNE 9 AND WAS CHAUFFEURRED IO SAME BY BLASI. V

MOST PERTINENT INFORMATION WAS THAT CONCERNING COMMENTS OF

POTENZO WHO WAS MOST INSISTENT THAT HE SPEAK WITH GIANCANA IN

PRIVATE "TONIGHT." WHEN GIANCANA TOLD POTENZO THAT HE WOULD

NOT BE ABLE TO TAKE THE TIME HE WAS TOLD "I'LL TELL YOU WHY

I GOT TO TELL YOU. WHILE YOU WAS AWAY THESE OTHERS TRIED TO

GET YOU." GIANCANA CURSED AND ADVISED POTENZO NOT TO WORRY. HE

ADVISED THAT HE COULD TAKE CARE OF HIMSELF. HE THEN INSTRUCTED

POTENZO THAT HE WOULD BE AT LOUNGE EVERY NIGHT AND POTENZO SHOULD

CONTACT HIM THERE. U

ABOVE WOULD INDICATE POTENZO TOLD GIANCANA OF SOME OF

ACTIVITES ON PARTS OF PERSONS NOT IDENTIFIED TO JEOPARIZE THE

POSITION OF GIANCANA. IT IS FELT THAT POTENZO WILL FURTHER RELATE

DETAILS CONCERNING SAME IN NEAR FUTURE. U

DURING EVENING BUTCH BLASI HEARD TO ADVISE GIANCANA "HERE IS

THE MONEY FIFI (BUCCIER!) SENT YOU, $4,000. NOTHING FURTHER WAS

STATED TO INDICATE REASON FOR PAYMENT BUT ASSUMED THIS IS BUCCIERI

GROUP MONTHLY, OR POSSIBLY WEEKLY TRIBUTE TO GLANCANAL

CG 6533-C ADVISED THAT JOSEPH (FIFKE) GORNGOLD WEST SIDE

171/41

GAMBLING OPERATOR ARRIVED AT ARMORY

JUNE 9 LAST. U

OPERATOR ARRIVED AT ARMORY LOUNGE

TING EARLY-EVENING

202440445

4

JUN 261964 14|

REC- 16

If the

Intellisence containe à i the above m

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, Wis suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286296

Page 2

---

