# docid-32292627

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10403

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-355

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/09/1961

2

SGI, FISUR, MISUR INSTALLATION, ARMORY LOUNGE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

y9.1

DocId: 32292627 Page 1

332

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Becords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

AL

Radio

olson

Belmont

Mohr -

_Callahan

¡Conrad

DeLoach

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

Teletype

Lit 4-1

DEFERRED

8-9-61

5:48 AM

RJL

DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO

080814

(JUNE)

SAMUEL.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. PHYSICAL

SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED LATE PM AUGUST 7 AND AUGUST 8 LAST AT

ARMORY-LOUNGE FOR PURPOSE OF SURVEY AND INSALLATION OF MICRO-

PHONE SURVEILLANCE. DURING PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE, NOTED THAT

AUTOMOBILES UTILIZED BY DOMINIC BLASI, CARMEN FANELLI (OPERATOR

OF ARMORY) AND AUTO REGISTERED TO TARQUIN LNU, PROBABLY

TARQUIN SIMMONELLI, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTHONY ACCARDO, IN

ADDITION TO ONE OR

TWO OTHER CARS, WERE IN EVIDENCE UNTIL

2 AM AUGUST 8 LAST. ACCESS MADE INTO ARMORY AT 2:30, SURVEY

MADE, ONE MITE UNIT INSTALLED ABOVE DOOR FRAME IN INSIDE OF

PRIVATE DINING AND MEETING ROOM THIS ESTABLISHMENT. INSIDE

WORK COMPLETED WITHOUT INCIDENT. ADDITIONAL WORK REMAINS ON

OUTSIDE TO COMPLETE AND MONITOR UNIT. BUREAU WILL BE IMMEDIATELY

ADVISED UPON COMPLETION AT WHICH TIME SYMBOL NUMBER WILL BE

ASSIGNED. NOTED THAT GIANCANA WAS NOT OBSERVED DURING THE

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE, AND NO ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO SURVEIL THOSE

INDIVIDUALS LEAVING ARMORY, FOR SECURITY RURPOSES. ARMED AND

DANGEROUS. /V)

RECEIVED:

6:54 AM TELETYPE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED 6:55

AM CODING UNIT

HEREINES UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 6-6-941

RN

N-3901)

Nor:

239 MI PI

the, Donatel

92- 3171-355

AUG, 10 1961,6

REC- 13

MECCISA-FA

AUG 14 1961

F% = 10Z

f the intelligence contained in the above message is t

be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId: 32292627

Page 2

---

