# docid-32327930

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90066-10171

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-46

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/01/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

• CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

DocId: 32327930

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC,2107 Hote).

DATE : 11-14-2017

;4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

Ix Teletype

URGENT 2-1-63

12:15 PM

JLW

TO DIRECTOR: 3 AND SAC, MIAMI

FROM SAC, NEW YORK

011630

SALVATORE GRANELLO, AKA, AR. BUFILE 92-3960, MIAMI

92-4112.

NEW YORK 3803 - C ADVISED SUBJECT OBSERVED IN NEW YORK

CITY APPROXIMATELY TWO WEEKS AGO WITH AN "ATTRACTIVE 21

YEAR OLD REDHEAD" (POSSIBLY LINDA BILELLA, NORTH BERGEN,

NEW JERSEY) • SUBJECT DEPARTED WITH GIRLFRIEND FOR

FLORIDA DURING THE PAST WEEK. INFORMANT STATED SUBJECT

IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF BELLE BARTH, NOTED RECORDING STAR

OF RISQUE SONGS AND JOKES, AND MAKES HIS "HEADQUARTERS"

AT THE CLUB WHICH SHE IS FEATURED OR OWNS IN THE MIAMI.

AREA.

MIAMI WILL ENDEAVOR TO DETERMINE IDENTITY OF THE ABOVE

CLUB AND IF FREQUENTED BY THE SUBJECT. THEREAFTER

DETERMINE RESIDENCE OF THE SUBJECT IN THE MIAMI AREA AND

AFFORD CONSIDERATION OF HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE

COVERAGE ON HIS ACTIVITIES.

MIAMI WILL IMMEDIATELY

ADVISE THE BUREAU AND NEW YORK RE RESULTS OF ABOVE

INVESTIGATION.

RECEIVED: 12:22 PM

HL

REE-15

92-3962

12 FEB 5 1963

DI FEBY

1963

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32327930 Page 2

---

