# docid-32336886

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

• Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10281

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82298-113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

03/10/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 45875

25

DocId: 32336886

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SA 105-2118

ECRET

of information obtained during initial interview conducted

on 2/14/61, were contained in referenced San Antonio airtel

to Bureau,

2/17/61.

All interviews of the subject were

conducted by SAS CLAY ZACHRY, JR. and JESSE R. HAGY.

memorandum, is

1, 2 mentioned in the encloord I meaner d

former member

of the Cuban Bureau for the Repression of Communist

Activities, who furnished the information to the Legal

Attache, Madrid, per letter 7/29/60, from Legal Attache,

Madrid,

to the Bureau.

(See report of SA THOMAS E.

ERRION, 11/3/60, at Miami, captioned, "CHANGED: ELOY

(ca)

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, aka, Kiko Pernas, IS - CUBA")

SA T-2, mentioned in the enclosed letterhead

memorandum, is JULIEN VERNIMMEN, Belgian Security

Service, who furnished the information on 12/28/60,

Legal Attache,

paris. (See Legal Attache, Paris,

letter to Director,

1/11/61, captioned, "ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO, aka, IS - CUBA")

(S.)

The subject appeared completely cooperative

during the interviews and at no time refused to answer

questions.

It was the opinion of interviewing agents

that GUTIERREZ probably told the truth with regard to

the bulk of the information furnished by him, and that

if he did distort any information, or lie about any

particular topic, that it would have been concerning

his activities in Europe during the summer of 1960,

and his alleged connections with anti-FRANCO and anti-

SALAZAR activities. It was noted that GUTIERREZ corroborated

almost in full information which was developed by the Bureau

at the time he visited

the United States in the fall of

1959, and that numerous other items of information fur-

nished by him appeared to corroborate information de-

veloped concerning him by the Miami Office.

xiu.)

The San Antonio Office does not feel, however,

that it is possible to make a definite statement as to

-2-

SECRET

NW 45875 DocId:32336886 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

