# docid-32296794

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10218-10070

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 2-2173-140

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. CAR

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/26/1976

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

CUBANA AIRLINER, BOMBING, SUSPECT, RICARDO, HERNAN,

ASSOCIATION, LEG, CAR

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

05/12/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

DocId: 32296794 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

10/26/76

General Investi

F R.G. Held

] - J.J. McDermott

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

HERE:: 13

NCLASSIXIET

EXCEPA MI

NE SHONA

J.B. Adams

1

-

W.K. DeBruler

1. -

D.W. Moore

1 - T.W. Leavitt

- R.J. Gallagher

1.- J.G. Deegan

pache see s/24/94

1 - J.P. Graham

ou have been previously informed of all

information developed to date concerning the

bombing of the. Cuban-operated aircraft on

10/6/76

in the West Indies with the loss of 73

lives, las well as the information that the

name of Legat Joseph S. Leo, Caracas, Venezuela

was found on the person of one of the arrested

suspects in that bombing.

Legat, Caracas reports in attached that

with regard to the two Venezuelan citizens,

Hernan Ricardo Lozano and Freddy Lugo, arrested

on 10/7/76 by Trinidad police as suspects in

aircraft bombing, he has been acquainted with

Lozano since summer 1975, when Lozano requested

visa assistance for family of superior. Lozano

recontacted Legat on about three other occasios

for visa information, last contacting Legat on

9/30/76 requesting visa assistance for himself.

At that time Lozano claimed to be on an assign-

ment in Jamaica and wanted a two-day stopover

in Puerto Rico.: Visa was issued on 10/1/76.

Lozano was never a paid informant or source of i

Caracas Office. Freddy Lugo, the other arrest-

ed suspect is not known to Legat for has helu)

ever been a paid informant or source of the

Legat's name and

at time of arrest but Legat does, not know how.

his name came into Iust Reession, Lesat!

Continued page 2

DocId: 32296794 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

advised that the paper bearing his name

appeared to have ber taken from a notebook

sound in possession rames. faste

if Lozano which contained

more thán 170 other

Legat further advised that neither Luis

former Venezuelan Intelligence

Lozano, and Ricardo Morales Navarrete, current

ly employed by Venezuelan Intelligence Service

were never paid informants or sources of

Caracas Office.

It is noted, however,

Navarrete

Miami Office.

tea Forete paid intonant of the

Details in attached will be disseminated

by letter to the Attorney General, Deputy

Attorney General, Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Office of Professional

Responsibility and to Secretary of State.

You will be kept completely and promptly

informed of all pertinent developments.

CHIT

APPROVED:

ASSOC. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.J.BA:

Ident....

Asst. Dir.:

Elntell..

Adm. Serv..

Ext. Affairs.

in. & Pers

SEGREN,

Laboratory.

Legal Coun

Plan. "&-Insp.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv..

Tratning.

DocId: 32296794 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John, F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: H1-14-2017

•AHU UF INVESTIGATION

Assoc. Dir. -

SUNICATIONS SECTION

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.•A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

GUt d6 1976

Adm. Serv.

TELETYPE SECRE

0 2616302 OCT 76

FM

CARACAS (2-9) (P)

TO DIRECTOR IMMEDIALENR 196-26

BT

3/4/98

CLAR

NEASON: 1.5

(C, d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X_C

CFA

EFT O

Fin. & reps

Gen. Inv..

Ident. -

Intell

Laboratorv

Legal Crun.

Plan & Insp.

Ree. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y

3

SUBS; SUSPECTED BOMBING

CIBANA AIRLINES DC-8 NEAR

BARBAD OS

WEST INDIES, OCTOBER 62 1976NM-CIBA-WEST INDIES.

RE BUREAU TELEPHONE COMMUNICAI IONS WITH CARACAS,

OCT OBER 25, 1976.

San

IWO VENEZUELANS, HERNAN

RICARDO

LOZANO

AND FREDDY

LUGO, WERE

ARRESTED BY TRINIDAD POLICE ON OCTOBER 7, 1976, ON SUSPICION

OF IMPLICATION IN CUBANA AIRLINE ORASH OFF THE COASI OF BARBADOS

ON OCTOBER 6, 1976. HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO FIRST CAME TO LEGAI'S

ATTENTION IN THE SUMMER OF 1975 WHEN HE CONTACIED LEGATEON

DESALE UF TIE INEN DIRICTOR OF THE DERECTORAIE OF INTENdE

AND PREVENT IVE SERVICES (DISIP), DR

PEDRO IORRES AGUDO, FOR

ASSISTANCE IN EXPEDITING

3,15S UAN CE

DE-21'

MEMBER OF DR TORRES AGUDO IS RICARDO LOZANO RETURNED SHORTIN IN

THEREAFTER TO EXPRESS APPRECIATION FOR THE ASSISTANCE AND

OCT 29 1976

RECONI ACIED LEGAI ON ABOUT THREE OTHER OCCASIONS FOR VISA

END PAGE ONE

Clast

• Cy

6-8-83

TRiN.

veN.

TO INBORAACTON CONTAINIO

2E375

FIGNUEN IS UNCLASSIFIBO

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWS

OSTERWISE

SECRE

11978

DocId: 32296794

Page 4

---

## Page 5

teased

under the

ITE:

11-14-2017

John F. Kerinedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

SECRET

PAGE TWO CAR (2-9) EFT O

INFORMATION. IN DECEMBER, 1975, RICARDO LOZANO TELEPHONED LEGAI

AND EXTENDED A SOCIAL INVITATION IHAT WAS DECLINED. HE WAS NOT

SEEN OR HEARD FROM AGAIN UNI IL SEPTEMBER 3D, 1976, WHEN HE

APPEARED AT THE LEGAT OFFICE REQUEST ING ASSISTANCE IN OBTAINING

A VISA TO THE UNITED STATES FOR HIMSELF. ME CLAIMED HE HAD A

PHOTOGRAPHIC ASSIGNMENT IN JAMAICA FOR VISION MAGAZINE AND THAT

HE PLANNED A TWO-DAY STOPOVER IN PUERTO RICO BEFORE RETURNING

TO VENEZUELA. ON HIS VISA APPLICAI ION HE INDICATED. HIS

OCCUPATION AS GRAPHICS REPORTER AND INDUSTRIAL INVESTIGATOR.

HE LISTED HIS EMPLOYER AS INVESTIGACIONES COMERCIALES E

INDUSTRIALES (ICI) AND PRODUCED A LETTER OF EMPLOYMENT. SIGNED

BY ICI OWNER, LUIS POSADA. A VISA WAS ISSUED TO RICARDO LOZANO

ON OCTOBER 1, 1976. (HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO WAS NEVER APAID

INFORMANT OR A PAID SOURCE OF THE CARACAS OFFICE] * (5)

LUIS POSADA CARRILESS A FORMER FIVISION CHIEF OF DISIP

WHO RESIGNED FROM THAT ORGANIZAIION IN 1974 AND ESTABLISHED ICI,

A PRIVAIE INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY• LEGAI HAD VERY SLIGHI CONTACI

POSADA EVEN WHEN POSADA WAS AN OFFICIAL OF DISIP. LEGAT AND

POSADA HAVE MET PERHAPS NO MORE THAN THREE TIMES SINCE 1971.

ON JUNE

: 18, 1976, POSADA APPEARED AI THE LEGAI OFFICE IO ASK

END PAGE TWO

SECRET

2-2173-140

DooId:32296794 Page 5

---

## Page 6

lease

Funde r

the T

ot F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE:

11-14-2017,

PAGE THREE CAR (2-9) EFT O

SECRET

WHAT, IF ANY, INTEREST THE FBI HAD IN CARLO BORDONI BUFILE

29-168654, CARFILE 29-15) POSADA WAS TOLD THAI BORDONI WAS A

FUGITIVE FROM JUSTICE AND THAT EFFORTS WERE BEING MADE TO

EXTRADITE BORDONI FROM VENEZUELA TO THE UNITED STATES TO ANSWER

CHARGES OF BANK FRALD IN CONNECTION WITH THE COLLAPSE OF THE

FRANKLIN NATIONAL BANK. POSADA SAID IN THAI CASE HE WISHED TO

ADVISE LEGAT THAT BORDONI HAD HIRED TWO ICI OPERATIVES TO ACT AS

ARMED BODYGUARDS IN HIS HOME. ELEGAT ELBSEGUENTLY FURNISHED THAT

INFORMATION, TO VENEZUEL AN POLICE INVOLVED IN THE EXPECTED ARREST

OF BORDONI. LUIS POSADA CARRILES WAS NEVER A PAID

INFORMANT

OR PAID SOURCE OF THE CARACAS OFFICE (5

FREDDY LUGO, THE

SECOND VENEZUELAN ARRESTED IN TRINIDAD, IS

NOT KNOWN TO LEGAI. VENEZUELAN PRESS REPORTS IDENTIFY HIM AS A

JOURNALIST AND PHOTOGRAPHER. HE REPORTEDLY HAD A SLIP OF PAPER

ON HIS PERSON BEARING LEGAT'S NAME AND. TELEPHONE NUMBER. IT IS

NOT KNOWN HOW LEGAT'S NAME CAME TO BE IN LIGO'S POSSESSION.

LUGO IS NOT PERSONALLY KNOWN IO LEGAT AND HE HAS NEVER BEEN A

PAID INFORMANT OR PAID SOURCE OF THE CARACAS OFFICE. @ (S.)

TRINIDAD POLICE FURNISHED XEROX COPIES OF PAPERS AND

DOCUMENTS AMONG PERSONAL EFFECTS OF RICARDO LOZANO AND L 160. 4(U)

END PAGE THREE

SECRED

2-2173-140

DocId: 32296794 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Relea

Ciet

the John F. Rennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC, 2107 Note) .

11-1-20

SECRED

PAGE FOUR CAR (2-9) EFT O

FROM AN EXAMINATION OF THE COPIES, IT WOULD APPEAR THAT THE

SLIP OF PAPER BEARING LEGAT'S NAME WAS TAKEN FROM A NOTEBOOK OF

APPROXIMATELY THIRTY PAGES FOUND IN RICARDO LOZANO'S POSSESSION

AND IN WHICH WERE INSCRIBED OVER ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NAMES.

COPIES OF THE XEROXED DOCUMENTS WERE FORWARDED TO THE BUREAU BY

CARACAS LETTER, OCTOBER 18, 1976.

RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE IS PRESENTLY A DIVISION CHIEF AT

DISIPO HE WAS FORMERLY AFFILIATED WITH A SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS

WIT OF THE VENEZUELAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HIS IMMEDIATE

SUPERVISOR BEING ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ, MINISTER COUNSELLOR.

MORALES ARRIVED IN VENEZUELA FROM MIAMI, FLORIDAS

IN APPROXIMATELY LATE 1974, HAVING BEEN SUMMONED BY ORLANDO

GARCIA VASQUEZ, WHO IS A CONFIDANT OF VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT

CARLOS ANDRES PEREZ. REGULAR OFFICIAL CONTACIS HAVE BEEN

MAINTAINED WITH MORALES AND GARCIA IN CONNECTION WITH BUREAU

MAITERS. THEY ARRANGED THE ARREST AND DEPORTATION OF BUREAU

FUGITIVE JOSEPH GREGORY SCATA (BUFILE 115-4761, CARFILE 115- 4761)

ON JUNE 9, 1976, AFTER THE TECHNICAL JUDICIAL POLICE (PIJ) HAD

FAILED. THEY HAVE ALSO ASSISTED IN THE MATTER OF CARLO BORDONI.

GARCIA AND MORALES LAST CONTACTED LEGAT ON OCTOBER 25, 1976, TO

ASCERIAIN IF LEONARD RITNUS, SO LIRT AND CHARLES BARANDIAR AN,

THREE UNITED STATES CITIZENS BEING HELD BY DISIP, WERE

END PAGE FOUR

SECRET

DocId: 32296794 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assossination Records, Collegtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

PATE. 11-14-2077

DANTE" OLD

SECRED

PAGE FIVE CAR (2-9) EFT O

WANTED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITIES IN THE UNITED STATES.

NEITHER RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE NOR ORLANDO GARCIA VASQUEZ

HAS EVER BEEN A PAID INFORMANT OR PAID SOURCE OF THE CARACAS

OFFICE.

C(4)

L.

SECRET

DocId: 32296794

Page 8

---

