# docid-32576371

## Page 1

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. Gale (J. E. Kelly, Jr., Room 1541)

1 - Mr. Sullivan(J.D. Donohue, o15 RB

SAC,

Philadelphia (92-102% Sub F)

January 15, 1965

EX-1001 3RE6- IT

1 @Mr. Conrad

Director, FBI (92-6054) Mr. Millen

JUNE

1 - Mr. Baker

1 - Mr. Corbett

LA COSA NOSTRA

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

Reurlet 1/5/65 outlining technical details of the proposed

installation of Radio-Frequency Microphone-Telephone (RIMT)

coverage in captioned matter and furnishing cable and block prints

of the target area. This material has been reviewed by the Laboratory.

The Laboratory's technical observations are attached for the

assistance of your sound-trained Agents.

If it is not possible to run a drop wire directly from the

telephone terminal box in the rear of 906 South 8th Street to an

area for secure concealment of the RFVT unit in the parochia)

institution, it is suggested that consideration be given to obtaining

a secure space either in the high school or in close proximity thereof.

A leased pair of telephone wires may be used to connect the REMT

unit to the central plant where personnel can monitor the microphone

coverage.

•It additional technical assistance is desired, the Bureau

should be advised.

No installation should be effected in this matter without

prior bureau authorization.

In the event a misur is authorized you

must insure that it does not function as a tesar.

MAILED 25

•SANJ 5.1965

COMM-FBI

jes oil ste

Enclosute

Tolson

Belmont.

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Cullah

Conra

Felt

Gale

roger

Sulliva

Tavel

Trotter

Told

Room

Holnier

Gandy

31912104

ERI

TU4 11

ENCL

SECE'AED - COMSYD

you in

195 GELETYPE UNIT

45839

DooId: 32576371

Page 1

---

## Page 2

January 15, 1965

TECHNICAL REVIEW OF TELEPHONE. CABLE SERVICE

FOR REMT INSTALLATION IN THE VICINITY OF

902 South 8th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

In reviewing the submitted cable records it was assumed that,

as a matter of company policy, telephone drop wires are not run across

streets in close proximity to the target area and, therefore, the maximum

use of existing cable facilities will be most desirable. If this assumption

is correct, it will be necessary to have block drawing 89-7 for complete

details of the cable serving the parochial institutions before a final

decision can be reached as to the cable mocifications required and the

ability of the RFMT unit to properly excite (activate) the target instrument.

Based on the data furnished, it is estimated that there are 924

cable feet between the telephone terminal box in the rear of 906 South

8th Street (cable terminal to which target instrument is connected) and

the telephone terminal box serving the parochial institutions. To this

must be added the wires connecting the target instrument and the REMT

war come in the

unit to the respective terminal boxes. If cable pairs are used, it will be

necessary to open the cable splice on Montrose, in the front of the high

school, to insert especially designed chokes between the central office

and the target instrument.

A pair of wires must be provided to connect

between the cable pair serving the target instrument and the cable terminal

at the institution.

This pair must be connected on the instrument side of

the chokes and must not have stubs nor multiple appearances. It may

require opening several cable splices to provide this service.

There is no assurance that the RFMT unit will properly excite

the target instrument from a plant in the institutions after the above-

listed work has been completed as the wire distance involved is in the

fringe range for the REMT unit.

If it is possible to run a drop wire directly from the terminal

box in the rear of 906 South 8th Street to the institutions, consideration

should be given to concealing the special chokes in or near this terminal

92-6054-892

ENCLOSURE

HH

45839 DooId: 32576371 Page 2

---

## Page 3

box and running the drop wire from this point to the institutions. This

drop wire; along with the drop wire serving the target instrument, will

be connected to the instrument side of the chokes.

The other end of

the chokes will be connected to binding posts 8 in the terminal box at

the rear of 906 South 8th Street,

The REMT unit should properly excite

the target instrument with this wiring plan.

Consideration should be given to locating a plant within the

"drop" area served by the terminal box at the rear of 906 South 8th Street.

While the block diagram limits this area to 806-8 Christian to 906 South

8th Street, it may be possible, with company cooperation, to extend the

area to include 908-22 South 8th and the high school.

Il a secure plant can be located in this area it may be possible

to conceal the special chokes near the terminal box serving the target

instrument and connect a teephone drop to the plant. Such an arrange-

ment will not require modification to the telephone company cable plant.

It will not be necessary for the leased pair connecting the central

monitoring plant with the RFVT unit to appear in the same terminal

box nor will a special line be required to transmit the audio back to the

central monitoring plant as any line with a quality equal to that used for

long-haul microphone installations will serve this purpose.

It should be pointed out that parallel drop wire attenuates the

RFMT energy more than cable pairs therefore the use of parallel drop

wire runs should be kept to a minimum.

The cable prints and block diagrams are being retained in the

Laboratory for reference in the event additional technical assistance is

desired.

- 2 mi

HH 45839 DocId: 32576371 Page 3

---

## Page 4

piss

OPTIONAL FORM. NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 1862 EDITION

*GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (92-6054)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT: LA COSA NOSTRA

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

DATE:

1/5/65

JUNE

Re Bureau June communication dated 12/18/64 and

Philadelphia letter to Bureau dated 12/17/64.

Referenced communications were in regard to

establishing technical coverage 902 South 8th Street,

Philadelphia, Pa.

Per request referenced Bureau letter, enclosed

herewith are cables prints showing telephone service for

the target installment and block diagram of telephone cable

service in target area.

Target telephone is for ALFONSO MAIORIELLO, 902

South 8th Street, telephone number MA 7-6443, serficed by

sub

cable 19-227

pair.

There are two appearances of this

count, one in the rear

of 906-South 8th Street on binding

post number 8 (see sketch S9-0). The second appearance is

at 801 Washington Avenue binding post number 7 (see sketch

S10-8).

Considering that Philadelphia's proposal in this

matter was to obtain a secure location for a RFMT unit in

f'a parochial institution, further that this unit would be

used to relay technical coverage at target area to Phila-

delphia's central plant, the following information is

provided:

892

EX-100

REG: 11 92-6054

- Bureau (92-6054)- (Encs.

-(RM)

SEVENTR

1 - Philadelphia (92-10275s

-I)

JRP: EKM

Section

8 JAN

& 1965

(3)

91

0M 13

83 020.02

BECEASE COMSVO

let 1-15-65

Keis.

Icc.

po

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

35

HH

45839 DocId: 32576371 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-1027 Sub-F

902 south 8th Street is on the west side of

the street intersecting South 8th Street;on the east

side is Montrose Street.

This intersection is less than

100 feet from the target address.

On Montrose Street:

which is believed to be well within the 1000 wire foot

requirement for an RFVT installation,are the previously

described parochial institutions.

The institutions

include a rectory, convent, church and school running

from 712 to 730 Montrose Street.

The current Philadelphia

Telephone Directory lists the owner of this property as -

DENNIS J. DOUGHERTY (IR) of 225 North 18th Street, Phila-

delphia, which address is for the Missionary Servants of

the Blessed Trinity.

The parochial institutions in the

700 block of Montrose Street are listed under St. Mary

Magdalene de Pazzi Church, 712 Montrose Street.

= 2-

NH 45839

DocId: 32576371 Page 5

---

