# docid-32286217

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

-4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10493

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1345

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

10: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/21/1963

4

THP, MISUR, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.l

DocId: 32286217

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATEO (R0-1412947

V

Transmit the following in -

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date:

8/21/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB UU,

JUNE

SUBJ :

ACTIVITIES OF

TOP HOODLUMS

CHICAGO DIVISION

CG 6576-C* furnished the following information on

8/19/63, regarding activities occurring within the offices

of the First Ward Democratic organization:

The informant advised that PAT, MARCY Spent the

greater portion of the morning in the offices conducting ward

business and that no information of pertinence was discussed.

MARCY was away a greater portion in the afternoon for the

purpose of contacting several individuals, one of whom was

known to be FRANK ESPOSIT

The purpose of this meeting was

unknown as was

is the other business conducted by MARCY during

the day.

710

As the Bureau is aware CG 6283-C is an extremely

valuable informant who is closely associated with the

individuals in the lst Ward Democratic Organization and

performs legal work for these individuals as well as the

Anco Insurance Company with which JOHN D'ARCO is connected.

For the information of the Bureau CG 6283-C advised

during 12/62, that Room 705 at 100 North LaSalle Street, was

Punterson and that this are was beta reno dest

Publication and that this office space was being remodeled by

PAT. MARCY which was to be utilized subsequently as a meeting

place for politicians and hoodlums.

On 2/11/63, CG 6610-C* was installed in Room 705,

100 North

LaSalle Street, and was placed in service on

2/12/63.

Since that time no pertinent information has been

developed by this confidential source.

< 3.

Bureau (Rm)

1 - Chicago

VLI : b1g

EX 104

16 4 2 2 3 45

12 AUG

23 1900

(4)

Approved:

GN AUG 30

Sent

Per

15069g

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32286217 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releäsed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350-SUB UU

Stree 8

CG 6283-C advised that Room 705 has been

vacant

since 12/62, and that PAT MARCY had rented this office

utilized Room 705 because they felt that this office space

looked suspicious since it was

vacant and the tenants were

conspicuous by their absence.

Room 705, therefore, was subsequently vacated by

the Larson Construction Company.

On 8/21/63, CG 6283-C advised SA VINCENT L. INSERRA

that Room 705 was recently taken over by informant's law

office which was immediately adjacent to this space.

Informant

said that Room 705 has been completely remodeled with a

connecting door to the informant's law office and a five year

lease agreement has been signed by the informant with the

building management for Room 705.

Informant stated that on 8/19/63, he was contacted

by CHARLES NICOSIA the Administrative Clerk fOr PAT MARCY OF

the ist Ward Democratic Organization which is located on the

23rd floor of 100 North LaSalle Street. NICOSIA told informant

that he was sent by PAT MARCY to ask a favor of informant.

NICOSIA said that PAT MARCY wanted the informant to give

Room 705 so that it could be reoccupied by. Dr. LOIS/HIGGINS who

was the occupant of this space in 1962. NICOSIA told informant

that PAT MARCY is the absolute power in the lst Ward Democratic

Association and that MARCY stated that it was extremely

important that informant give up the occupancy of Room 705.

Informant told NICOSIA that if he had known sooner

about the desires of PAT MARCY, he would not have occupied

Room 705 and would have made it available for MARCY. Informant

told NICOSIA that it was too late to give up this office

no an it desotormant

space since extensive remodeling has been done and a new law

partner has been added to the firm who is now occupying this

room. Informant told NICOSIA that it would not be

possible

to give up this space because they have signed a live year

lease agreement with the building management.

NICOSIA again stated that

was a direct order from PAT MARCY.

Informant inquired why it

was so important to give up this office space for Dr. LOIS

-2-1

DocId: 32286217 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350-SUB UU

NICOSIA

HIGGINS, and Maned replied "LOIS HIGGINS 1s one of our people."

Informant again told NICOSIA that this situation was out of his

hands and he would have to see the building management about

the office space in question.

CG 6283-C further advised that he was subsequently

contacted by CLARENCE JOHNSON, who is the building manager at 100

North LaSalle Street. JOHNSON told informant that he was

contacted on 8/19/63, by PAT MARCY concerning Room 705.

JOHNSON stated that PAT MARCY was vehement in his demands

for gaining possession of Room 705 for LOIS HIGGINS and made

several threats to Mr. JOHNSON. JOHNSON explained to MARCY

that it was too late at this time to obtain Room 705 for

LOIS HIGGINS because of existing lease agreements between the

management and informant's law office.

Informant stated that

according to JOHNSON, MARCY was not interested in any other

office space except Room 705.

JOHNSON told MARCY that there

was nothing further that could be done at this time and if

MARCY had any additional complaints to take it up with the

owner of the building who was not immediately available at

this time.

Informant further advised that there is no doubt in

his mind that PAT MARCY will continue in his efforts to obtain

occupancy of Room 705 since MARCY would feel quite secure in the

use of this space providing he is able to obtain a suitable front to

occupy this room such as LOIS HIGGINS.

Informant stated that

Room 705 is between the informant's law office and the union

office of FRANK ESPOSITO, labor boss of the Municipal Employee's

Union, who is closely associated with Chicago hoodlums.

According to informant he has no doubt that LOIS HIGGINS, who

is the Director of the Illinois State Crime Prevention Bureau,

is under the influence of the lst Ward Organization and

who would apparently' make her office available to these

individuals for their Clandestine meetings.

Director of Illinois Crime Prevention Bureau and the President..

"the International Association of Women Police.

DI. HIGGINS,

aceording to the

article, expects to be a member of the faculty

of the University of the Seven Seas which sets sail in 10/63,

for a cruise around the world. This cruise will stop àt

various foreign ports which have universities and will hear

lectures in the field of criminology.

-3 -

DocId: 32286217 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350-SUB VU

This article also reported that Dr. HIGGINS during

10/62, was reappointed by Chairman ROBERT KENNEDY as a

special advisor to the President's Commission on Juvenile

Delinquency and Youth Crime for another year's term.

It appears from the above information that Dr. HIGGINS

will be leaving the Chicago area in October for approximately

a year and that the above attempts by MARCY to regain

possession of Room 705 is obviously for his own use during the

absence of Dr. HIGGINS. It would appear that should MARCY

regain possession of Room 705 the reactivation of CG 6610-C*

would be an extremely valuable source into the activities of

MARCY and other Chicago hoodlums.

In the event MARCY is unable

to obtain Room 705 as indicated,

it is possible that MARCY

may be considering using the office of FRANK ESPOSITO which

is next door to Room 705, it being noted that MARCY was recently

in contact with ESPOSITO. This situation will be closely

followed.

The Chicago Office through discreet contacts with

CG 6283-C and CLARENCE JOHNSON, Building Manager who has been

contacted confidentially in the past, will attempt to make

available Room 705 for the lst Ward Organization so that the

Chicago Division would be in an excellent position to afford

confidential coverage in this regard.

DocId: 32286217

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10194-10464

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1276

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/17/1963

9

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/23/1998

THP, MISUR, ACT, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32286217 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-86 / Or. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

5/17/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-Sub U)

SUBJECT: ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS,

CHICAGO DIVISION

DAILY SUMMAR Y

JUNE

CG 6576-C* furnished the following infornation

concerning activities occurring within the lst Ward

• Denocrati

Organization on

4/14 and 15/63.

7a1

Initial

- conversation on 5/14/63 between PAT NARCY

• FRED ROTI

there concerned an internal battle taking place

presently within the Cook County Republican Party. Mentioned

specifically during the conversation

was Secretary of State

CHARLES CARPENTIER, Who had split fron the CGILVIE-SCOTT

Laction, which group presently seems to command the most power

111 Cook

County Republican circles following the election of

these two individuals to high public office during the

elections oi November 1962. Iurther comment was made regarding

arguments between CARPINTIER and City Councilman RICHARD

JOELLEN, concerning party loyalties.

O1 particular note

during the discussion were NARCY's remarks to the eilect that

the recent publicity reflecting Federal investigation into

Ist Mard activities did not linit this investigation to the

Democratic organization but also pointed out ties between the

Republicans and the West Side 3loc and nembers of organized

Shortly thereafter,

ANTHONY TISCI joined MARCY and

the two were subsequently joined by an attorney, IZZY GOLDSTEIN.

3 - Bureau (RIL)

- Chicago

HER / 11p

(1)

REC- 21

6299-1276

19 I7AY 22 1953

6 Approve di

Andit !

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32286217

Page 7

Sent

M

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

4

CG 92 - 350-Sub U

From the following conversation, it became known that

GOLDSTE IN

is presently representing a former Chicago police

man named MAOLA (ph), who was indicted in 1960 during the

national elections for vote fraud.

When it became known

that MAOLA was a policeman, he was subsequently suspended

rom the Chicago Police Force AlS Is case is presently due

to come up before the Civili

Commission for his release

from the force.

GOLDSTEIN discusses the situation with MARCY

and has requested MARCY to pull as many strings as he can

so that this individual can beinstated. GOLDSTEIN takes the

stand that MAOLA was merely the victim of circumstances, but

is being made to bear the entire brunt of this incident.

GOLDSTEIN

a requesteMARCY to contact the Mayor, leading

police oificials, and Lou wiruck, the Assistant Corporation

counses, under whose direction the case will be tried before

the CAC,

During the conversation.

to

and was also requested to do

his part on

MAOLA. GOLDSTEIN continued that MAOLA

has been out of work for 15 months and has been having

difficulty gaining employment when the reasons for his unemploy-

ment become known.

It is pointed out that the violations

occurred in the 28th Ward, of which GIROLAMI was alderman at

the time of the occurrence. GOLDSTEIN claims that MAOLA told

him that GIROLAMI had instructed him to do "it" which

GIROLAMI disclaims heatedly.

MARCY's first statement concerning his actions in

the matter will be to have the case postponed for a minimum of

two months so that they will have more time to work on the

matter.

During the afternoon of 5/14/63, Lieutenant LOUIS

MUELLER and OffiCer JOHN AURIELMA, License Oificers of the

Chicago Police Department, were in contact with PAT MARCY®

It. MUELLER explained that he is investigating an application

for a liquor license made by Austin Liquors. It is noted that

Austin Liquors is owned by the FILICHO family and that there

die numerous Austin Liquor Stores located throughout the Chicago

area.

One of the members of the FILICHIO Lamily is BEN

FILICHIO, Who testified as a defense witness for TONY ACCARDO

luring ACCARDO's trial in the fall of 1960.

It. MUELLIR explained to MARCY that there is no way

hat he can grant, legally, the application for a license, due

- 2.

3

peh

DocId: 32286217

Page 8

---

