# docid-32334738

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90118-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2897-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/16/1958

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

.

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45922

DocId: 32334738

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Fom

FD-263 (5-13 55})

Reporting Office

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

DALLA'S

Date

7/16/58

Report made by

ROBERT M.

BARRETT

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

5/26;6/2,9,10,11,

10,19,24;7/3,8-10/58

Typed By:

JH

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

упорвів:

No information developed that subject engaged in any specific

1llegal activities while awaiting local prosecutive action at

ballas, other than continued association with Dallas police

character EDWARD DANIEL, DAY, wAS., FBI #1486812. POPE

scheduled to plead guilty 7/25/58, in Dallas court to

narcotics possession charge and receive 3 years sentence.

SUBJECT. HAS BEEN KNOWN TO USE A KNIFE IN A FIGHT, CARRIES A

838 SNUB-VOSE REVOLVER ON PERSON WAS IN POSSESSION OF: •45

CANTEER AUTO ATIC DURING RECENT ARREST, HAS SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN

AND SHOULD BE CONSTERED ARMED. AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.

POPE

HAS MADE STATEMENTS THAT HE WOULD KILL ANY OFFICER WHO ATTEMPTED

TO ARREST HIM.

DETAILS:

C. ASSOCIATES

AT FORT WORTH, TEXAS

Special Agent

in Charge:

• Bureau (92-2897)

10 New Orleans (92-37) (Info) 28

3 - Dallas (92-34) 0133

19A5

Ligned destroye

182855

Do not write' in spaces below

72- 2897-

24

13: JUL 21 1958

REC- &

EX-124

STAR

orty of FBI:

This report is loaned to you'by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

77 JUL JUL 0 1958

45922

Doc1d:32334738

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, OFFICEI 0 O-385910

Page.

2.:.

---

## Page 3

DL 92-34

On July 8, 1958, It was determined that 2930 Forest

Dallas, was

a Negro rooming house and has been so for

the past three years.

Mrs. J. B. HUDSON having resided at that address for the past

three years.

From the above it appears that Mrs. HUDSON used

a false address when she registered at the St. Angelus Hotel,

San Angelo, Texas, in November, 1957•

(3) Gangland Killings

1958, Dallas Confidential Informant T-7,

who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

she was a very close friend of Dallas-Fort police character

EUGENE TOWNLEY.

T-7 stated TONNLEY was a known narcotics

pusher and addict who was dealing in narcotics with ANGELO

THOMAS CASTEN, when TOWNLEY and TOWNLEY's wife mysteriously

disappeared from the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

T-7 stated

TOWNLEY at that time was obtaining pure heroin from CASTEN and

that based on her knowledge and association with police

opinion that TOWNLEY and TOWNLEY®s wife were murdered by

believed to have been GENE

PAUL NORRIS, over a narcotics

argument.

T-7 stated she had no definite proof concerning

the above but that it was merely an opinion.

(4.) Miscellaneous Criminal Activities Information

On June 9, 1958, Assistant District Attorney CHARLES

CABINASS advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT that prosecutive action

against POPE on charges of narcotics possession would take

place on July 9, 1958, in the Dallas District Court of Judge

FRANK B. WILSON.

On July 9, 1958, CABINASS advised POPEs attorney

HARLES TESSMER, had on July 9, 1958, made a motion to nave

POPE's case passed until July 25, 1958, at which time POPE has

agreed to enter a guilty plea and will

furnished the Dallas Sheriff's Office by the Dallas FBI Office.)

F. PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND HANGOUTS FREQUENTED

- 6 -

NW 45922 DocId: 32334738

Page 3

---

## Page 4

."..

DI 92-34

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 1s Mr. R. W. BURROW, Chief Special Agent,

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas.

T-2. 1s DL-95-C.

T-3 1s DL-90-C.

T-4 is PCI|

T-5 1s DL- 83-0.

I-6 1s El Paso PCI|

Texas.

T-7 18 PCI

OTHER 4

-

-8÷

45922

DocId: 32334738

Page

4

---

