# docid-32292512

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10288

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-369

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/18/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, HORSE RACES, SPORTS TICKER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32292512

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rex. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via.

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT

FBI

Date:

1/18/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-9033)

NEW ORLEANS (92-50) (P)

SAC,

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAI

WEEKLY SUMMARY

RACE WIRE SERVICE

NEW ORLEANS FAIRGROUNDS

ABLE JOHN CHAUVIN was Interviewed at New Orleans

1/16/63 at which time he admitted that he is obtaining and

disseminating race wire service to bookmakers in Jefferson

Parish. He advised that none of his service is going out of:

state, and he would be most willing to cooperate with Bureau

and telephoning it outside of Jefferson

Parish, Louisiana.

PCI NO 1203 PC advised that

he has had friends

contact WOODY RUTH who has in the past furnished quick race

horse results in the Chicago area, and he advised on

1/17/63 that he is out of business and not receiving race

honse results.

This information will be furnished to Chicago

by separate communication.

ALBERT J. SALZER, ET AL

ITAR-GAMBLING

Investigation by New Orleans Agents has determined

that the Chesterfield Ciub has moved its operations to the

old Southport Club located just outside the city limits of

New Orleans.

The reason for this change according to SALZER

is the need for additional space. His business is good, and

-

11531

Bureau

New Orleans

RLK/cv.

(5)

1963

PEG AL

ST-117

62-9-33-368

g JAN 211963

Approved:

_ Sent .

- M

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32292512 Page 2

---

