# docid-32341981

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10018-10041

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 201-289248

Osws

VG

Released under the John

F. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

May 31, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 4

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The postponed information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is

John Scelso.

Release Date: 05/2001 The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three

months after the decease of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.:

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

HH 53199

DocId:32341981 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 4 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The postponed information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is

John Scelso.

Release Date: 05/2001 The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three

months after the decease of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Board Review Completed: 05/14/96

1Ы 53199

DocId: 32341981

Page

---

## Page 3

Date: 03/14/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10018-10041

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

DIRECTOR CIA

JMWAVE

12/10/63

1

SUBJECTS : JENTONS

CABLE REQUESTING FURTHER INFORMATION BE SENT WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A,

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

01/11/94

OSW3: V6 1994:01.11.13:56:53:470028:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId:32341981

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S BOB BL

UNIT: C/PH 3

EXTE

:5613

DATE : 10 DECEMBER 1963

D INDEX

O NO INDEX

I FILE IN CS FILE NO.

3

TO :. JUNAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

C/WH 4.

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI,

191/51 VR

TO

INMEDIATE HAVE

INFO

12-62

ROUTING

4

5

6

10 DEC 63

16 052

DEFERROGEN

ROUTINE :.

INMEDIATE

CITE DIR

879

85

REBA

GPFLOOR

REE WAVE: 8736 (IN 76755)

10

AGREE ALL POSSIBLE HAS BERN DONE.

WILL AWAKE FURTHER INFO FROM UNSTAR.

PLEASE

WHEN IT COMES,

RASH CABLE II HERE FOR EVALUATION AND DO NOTE PASS IT LOCALLY.

2:

2.

WHERE IS JENTONS AND HOW CAN WE CONTACI HIM?

QF MESSAGE

WAVE 8736 reports further details on how the UNSIAR operation

is handled.

RECORDS OFFICER STUP

The Callowi

sotion is

autho-lod: DESENSITIZE

signed:

R. 0. #2 - unit 4/REA

Note:

If destruction,

cite

reasons and coordinate

2e approgriates

CS COPY

D° 200-5-41

oy authority of

RICHARD HELMS

RELEASING ÖFFICER

• COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic.

downgrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY: OTHER THAN THE ISSUING. OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

HH 53199 DooId:32341981 Page 4

201-289248

"AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy No.

---

