# docid-32309460

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10247

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1693-11

Released under the John

F. Kennedu

Assassination Records

Collection set of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/18/1961

4

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

53074

DocId: 32309460

26

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD=36-(R'ev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: May 18, 1961

AIRTEL

SECRET

CONFEHTA

OUTATNED

EST

AIR MAIL

Via

TransmittheAolowing incHoN TO

DEGLADSCRAEN AND/OR

AC: 54

1 344

TURMATION

IN TUS DOGWENT MKH 2-6-98

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (2-312)

CANTI-COMMUNIST LEGIONNAIRES

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

2-21-98

(Priorites Method el Mailine

FROM:

REC- 9

S. A. Richard M. Alu

RE:

Date JAN ZA 1S1/

Place de:

ReMiamitel 5/17/61.

105-86406 (ering)

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies

memorandum dated and captioned as above.

of

a letterhead

p01190-4540536

Classified by

veclasstay eu

Information contained herein was immediately

disseminated to the United States Border Patrol and

United States Customs, Miami.

The United States Border

Patrol advised they would allow the reconnaissance trip m

to be and but would stop any expedition involving

/ CIA, Miami advised that although AGUSTIN CAPO

is under assessment for operational interest by CIA in

connection with the operation of a clandestine radio

network, he is not yet under CIA control,

should be

stopped from engaging in any expeditions.

Miami will continue contact with MM 639-S

will keep the Bureau immediately advised.

EX 113

REG. 9

OTHERWISE

Bureau (Encl. - 9) (AM • RM)

2-1 693-072655

CRON CON

/CLASSIE

'Miami"

12 - 2-312

EXCEPT WHEY

i SHOWN

*105.105-3805

Lot I Als

AAG reaguets

spirite

RDED

- 105-4050)

1,01

5-23-41

RUD:ems

10)

Approved: 1º

C C = Wick

Specia

" Sent

Agent in Charge

SECRET

Per

NW 53074 DocId: 32309460

Page 2

40

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

2-312

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

GONG

ICES

Miami, Florida

May 18, 1961

Re:

Anti-Coumunist Legionnaires

MM T-l, who has been connected with Cuban

revolutionary activities for the past

three years,

and who has furnished

reliable information in the

past, advised on May 17, 1961 that Gerald Patrick'

Henning, an American soldier of fortune, and head

of the Anti-Communist Legionnaires, has been in

contact with Agustin Capo, a Cuban national residing

at 62 Southwest 9th Street, Miami.fuPCapo has access

to a PT boat and a quantity of radio equipment which

he intends to use for some act against the present

Cuban Government,

He plans to make a reconnaissance

trip to Cay Aguila, Cay Sal Bank, British Islands

north of Cuba. Capo planned to make his reconnais

sance trip to Cay Sal Bank on May 17, 1961, return

to Miami, and on May 26th, he will return to Cay

Aguila, using the same boat, and will take with

him Henning and fifteen to twenty Americans who are

members of the Anti-Comnist Legionnaires.

MM T.1

expects Henning and his group will have arms and

will try to operate out of Cay Aguila against Cuba

on commando raids.

CUBA

MM T-l explained that Gerald Patrick

Henning maintains a training camp west of Miami in

the Everglades swamps.

At the present time there

are about trenty

to twenty-five American adventurers

AGENCY State, Ceas has, Customs,

LLINEEKNATION COMTANGI

DECLASSIFIED.BY

TON 5/4/94000-0-6000 Ba

CATE

REQ. RECT Em asiacai

DATE, FORW. DET

HOW FORW.

BYLIELIK

ENCLOSURE

1643-

NW 53074 DooId: 32309460

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Re: Anti -Commnist Legionnaires

BRITISH

ISLANDS

at this camp,

and

these Americans are considered to

be young, impressionable,

untrustworthy, and of

questionable rat character

LUBP

MM T-1 advised that Capo 1s connected with

Aurellano Sanchez Arango, a Cuban politician residing

in Mians and the head of the Triple A, a Cuban political

party and an independent anti Castro organization.

MM T-1, on May 17, 1961, advised that the

trip scheduled for May 17th has been postponed to

May:

20 or 2lst,

MM I-l was advised by Aureliano Sanchez

Arango on May 16, 1961, that only he, Sanchez Arang®,

and Capo know of the eract destination of the reconnais

sance trip and the identity of the boat to be used

Sanchez Arango said that an assistant of his, Orlando

Carcia, will accoupany Capo, Hemming, Robert Wills or

WIllis, and Dick Watley on the reconnaissance tr PahLUBeR,

TWILLIS

LA BRUISE SLANDS

MM T-1 expects that the trip taking Henning

ELAI

and his group to the Cay Sal Bank will probably be

made some time on the weekend of May 27, 1961•(*\n)

PROPERTY OF THE FBI--This memorandun is

loaned to you by the FBI,.

and neither it nor its

contents should be distributed outside the agency

to which loaned.

2%

-

14 53072 70677 32309460

Page

---

