# docid-32303717

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05c 2107 hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10229

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-224

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NK

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/22/1963

3

LCN, ASSOC, CONSPR, MURDER, MISUR A/O TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303717

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010108

MAY 1082 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE:

4/22/63

OM

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEWARK (92-1203) (P)

(CAUSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

NEWARK DIVISION

Re Bulet, 1/23/63, captioned THE CRIMINAL "COMMISSION",

ET AL, /AR - CONSPIRACY, which requested Newark to attempt

identification of a murder referred to by ANGELO DE CARLO anc

ANTHONY RUSSO.

A thorough review of information furnished by NK 2251-C*

shows that this incident has been mentioned lour times always in

conversation relating to subject organization.

Ithe first occurred on 4/22/61, when DE CARLO and ANTHONY

(TONY BOY)Y BOIARDO were discussing VITO GENOVESE and things which

had happened to make him angry.

BOIARDO asked DE CARLO if he

remembered when "I croaked that little Jew".. DE CARLO said he

did, identified the victim as HARRY and then as LITILE HAROLD.

On 1/7/63, during the conversation between DE CARLO

and ANTHONY RUSSO, mentioned in relet, DE CARLO described the

victim as one who

must have lent money or jewelry to the

BOIARDOs, causing them to want him eliminated.

It was during

this conversation that RUSSO mentioned "Found the car" and Mother

Hubbard's".

However, immediately following, he clearly stated

that he had abandoned the victim's car in Kearny, N. J.

On 2/23/63, DE CARLO, BOIARDO, LOUIS LARASSO and SAMUN

E CAVALCANTE were discussing murders which had been committed

within the organization. BOIARDO reminded DE CARLO "About the

time we hit the little Jew".

He described how the Boot (RUGGIERO

BOIARD) hit him with a hammer and then he, himself, struck the

victim eight

times on the head with a crowbar.

On 2/26/63, DE CARLO and RUSSO had a lengthy conver-

sation during which both mentioned their dislike for and distruct

2 1 Bureau

1 - New York

192-2333) (Info)

192-6054-224

1 - Newark

JPW:emg:

(4)

DocId: 32303717 Page 2

---

## Page 3

«redset uner the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NK 92-1203

the ownership of OSCAR GIRARD, a known associate of RUGGIERO BOIARDO.

was no date of termination given in the record, it was noted that

The Grotto had had repeated citations for various violations,

the last being in September, 1953.

In 1952, The Grotto was described as a favorite hoodlum

hangout and it was alleged that TONY BOY BOIARDO had a financial

interest in it.

on 9/12/55, but had not yet

done so on 9/27/55.

The site on which

The Grotto

stood has since been included in a large tract used

for a freeway and housing project, both of which have been completed

for at least five years.

A11 references in Newark IndiCes to HARRY, HAROLD, hIlth

HARRY and LITtLE HAROLD have been reviewed, but none could be

identified with the victim. In additionall jewelers listed in

the classified section of Newark city directories for the period

1937 to 1957, with a first name of HARRY Or HAROLD, were searched

through indices with negative results.

In the event NK 2251-C* or any other source provides

additional information which might lead to the identification

of RUSSO's victim, appropriate action will be taken.

Concerning the reference in relet to the physical layout

Of RUGGIERO BOIARDO.'s Livingston estate, Agents who interviewed

him on the premises have advised that the grounds occupy about 20

acres of which much is woodland. There are four houses on the

property; BOIARDO's own residence and one each occupied by a

married daughter.

There is at least one large barn and several

out buildings.

The main house is at the end of a lane winding

about 200 yards from a semi-rural road. The Agents observed

that for a considerable distance to the rear of the house, there

were gardens, animal and bird cages and statuary; however,

because of the rolling terrain, no greenhouse was visible.

Newark will remain alert for any opportunity to survey

BOIARDO's estate discreetly in order to locate the pit described

by RUSSO.

3

DocId: 32303717 Page 3

---

