# docid-32330879

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90093-10085

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-8100-48

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

08/08/1973

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330879

30

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-267 (Rev. 1-7-72)

FEDERAL BURÉAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

NOFIO

PECORA

DATE

8/8/73

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/17/72 - 8/1/73

REPORT MADE BY

SA HAROLD V. HUGHES

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

/mor

AR

REFERENCE: New Orleans report of SA HAROLD V. HUGHES, dated

7/11/72.

-C -

INFORMANTS:

NO I-21 is NO 1283-C-TE contacted 11/30/72,

12/19/72, 12/22/73, 1/19/73,

5/14/73,

6/6/73, 6/21/73, 7/11/73, by SA HAROLD V. HUGHES.

134) 37431

2/22/73, 3/8/73, 3/28/73, 4/26/73,

5%0r

ADMINISTRATIVE:

CONVIC.

This case is being retained in a closed status

inasmuch as subject is not known to be engaged in any

known illegal activity.

Further, as the Bureau is aware, he

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

X& NONE

ACQUIT-

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES XENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES *ENO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

3 - Bureau (92-8100)

DINICHUH

- USA,

New Orleans CLouts tana

92-8100-48

REC-4T

2 - Departmental Attorney, intO

New Orleans,

Louisiana

1 - New Orleans

(926508) 1| Ja YW,15

AUG 13 1973

REC-55

CARDS

EX-1075

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

NE DEbL OL MOZLICE

EBT

Notatt

PROC

Agency

Request Recd.

_CO. AAG. Criminal Division,

Date Fwd.

HOW FIG 9 AUC 2 319/3

Organized Crime and Racketcering

Borion, Roem2144

F145

1-A9R

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330879

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 tote).

/ DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

HVH/ mor

is being contacted under the TECIP.

The following information is being set

forth in the Administrative

Section due to its

singular nature.

On 8/10/72, NO 1283-C-TE, advised that he

learned that Mrs. FRANCES PECORA, wife of NOFIO PECORA,

who include, CONNELLY, LEVY, CALOGERO and BOPP...

Source said that PECORA told him that he is

getting

somewhat upset over his wife's political activities,

and is almost ready to attempt to get her to leave the

field of politics completely.

On 9/20/72, NO 1283-C-TE advised that he has

recently been in touch with several of his long-time

friends as a

result of

some of the wakes and funerals

that they have attended recently for mutual acquaintances.

He said that at a recent wake he conferred with several.

Source said that PECORA indicated

to him that "These young punks don't know nothin'

." Source

said

that PECORA reminisced about "the Black Hand" and said

that "I never made no money with anybody livin'

• All the

guys I dealt with are dead now."

Source said that PECORA told him that he was

nappy to see JIMMY CAMPO die, and said, "That's good

riddance." Source said that he then questioned PECORA

because he remembered

that PECORA

"stood up" for CAMPO

when he was married.

He said that PECORA replied, "I

stood up for the girl, not for him." Source said

that

CAMPO, according to PECORA, was one of the six original

guys who came down to New Orleans from

"back East" and

tried to take over some of the action from

the local

New Orleans natives.

B

COVER PAGE

doodd-105

DocId: 32330879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

HVH/mor

Source said that PECORA gave him the impression

from the way he talked that there currently are several

factions of "organized crime" elements currently within

the New Orleans area.

Source said that it was his

impression from talking to PECORA that PECORA was a "Black

Hand," and did not

care to be identified with the current

version of the Mafia or La Cosa Nostra.

Source said that PECORA told him that when he

originally purchased the Fropical Tourist Courts in about

1954 or 1955, PECORA expended all of the money that he had

been able to

raise to purchase the business, and when he

was requested by the electric company to post a $1,000

advance fee, he could, not do so.

He said that PECORA then

contacted Mr. PHILIPAQUAGLINO, SinCe QUAGLINO had a

cigarette machine in

the tourist court office at the time

of the purchase.

He said that PECORA endeavored to obtain

$1,000 from QUAGLINO, and QUAGLINO refused to lend him

the money.

Source said that PECORA then went to the new

owner of

Crescent Cigarette Service and obtained the $1,000,

loan.

Later,

during a wake for a mutual friend, PECORA

observed CARLOS MARCELLO, JOE:

MARCELLO, S., CE

LARCELLO

QUAGLINo: and several other assaciates

standing with PHILIP

When QUAGLINO spoke to PECORA and attempted to

shake hands with him, PECORA spat in his face.

This recollection was triggered on the part of

PECORA when the source mentioned to him that he had heard

the story about the time that JIMMY CAMPO allegedly spat in

the face of CARLOS MARCELLO, who which PECORA replied,

"I'm the guy who spit in somebody's face."

Source said that

PECORA told him that he knew nothing of the alleged incident

between CAMPO and MARCELLO.

On 10/30/72, NO 1283-C-TE advised that about

two months ago it came to his attention that JOHN SCHWEGMANN

had been contacted by NOFIO and FRANCES PECORA, and FRANCES

PECORA introduced a man named JOHN KEITH, who supposedly

The

purpose of this introduction was to attempt to interest

SCHWEGMANN in a line of vitamin supplements produced

by the Weider Company of California, wherein SCHWEGMANN

would purchase these items and stock them in his nine

supermarkets. Source said that apparently the meeting was

C

COVER PAGE

a.

DocId: 32330879 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

HVH/ mor

a

success, as he later heard Mrs. PECORA mention to

someone that KEITH had sold SCHWEGMANN some vitamin

tablets for stocking in three of the stores.

Source said that NOFIO and FRANCES PECORA had

dinner at SCHWEGMANN's house on the evening of 10/29/72,

and during the course of this dinner a number of items

were discussed which primarily related to politics. Source

said that it is his understanding that FRANCES PECORA

will be SCHWEGMANN's pipeline into the EDWARDS administration,

and will be the person on whom SCHWEGMANN will rely in

any of his attempts to have legislation passed or to exert

any influence within the state government.

Source pointed out that at the present time,

FRANCES PECORA is one of the most powerful political

figures in the State of Louisiana.

On 11/6/72, NO 1283-C-TE advised that in conversation

with NOFIO PECORA on

11/6/72, he and PECORA reminisced about

political contests of years ago.

He said that PECORA told

him that he has been a staunch

supporter of JOHN MC KEITHEN

for many years, and recalled the time eight years ago when

he and PETE MENEFEE (phonetic), two days before the

election, went to St. Tammany Parish, La., with $50,000

in cash and proceeded to distribute this cash to influential

people all over St. Tammany Parish and surrounding

communities.

Included among the people who received the

money were various firemen, Deputy Sheriffs, and others

who were in a position to converse with annumber of people

and be very influential in obtaining votes for MC KEITHEN

for Governor.

Source said that PECORA told him that "fresh

money" has been the secret of MC KEITHEN's süccess in his

various races for public office.

In this regard, source said

that PECORA told him that MC KEITHEN is meeting with FRANCES

PECORA on 11/7/72, to give her money which will

be distributed

to influential people in connection with the election of

MC KEITHEN for

Senator.

Source said that PECORA told him that on 11/6/72,

JOHN SCHWEGMANN, Sr. contacted Mrs. FRANCES PECORA

and set

D

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330879 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

HVH/mor

Source said that the original agreement with

BALOGNA was that

although BALOGNA owned property, he had

placed this property in the name of his son-in-law, PHILIP

CIACCIO, in order that there would be no inheritance tax

to pay when BALOGNA died.

The agreement was made at the

time of the

signing of the $100,000 note between PECORA

and CIACCIO that upon the sale of any of this property

that PECORA would be repayed any money which he might be

required to expend in satisfaction of the note.

Source

said that he learned from PECORA that to date, CIACCIO

has not paid one cent towards the liquidation of the note

of his late father-in-law and has completely alienated

himself from PECORA by his various acts.

Source advised that the reason PECORA has been

forced to repay the money is that

the original $100,000

note was placed with the bank, and it was necessary

to

mortgage the property at 6027 Chef Menteur Highway, which

is now known

as the Tropical Building and Tropical

Trailer Park.

Source advised that in recent conversations with

NOFIO PECORA that PECORA reminisced about "the good old days"

and said that the time he talked about before when CORRADO

GIACONA got him out of trouble by sending him to Chicago to

get a new job was actually the beginning of a new life for him.

He said that the person that he was instructed to see in

Chicago, the person he

was sent to meet was AL CAPONE.

said that upon his arrival in Chicago he met with CAPONE

and was given the job at the Union League Club as mentioned

before.

Source said that PECORA reminisced about CAPONE

for awhile, stating that he was well regarded by most of

the Italians, as he liked to play the role of Robin Hood and

could often be seen

giving money to the poor Italians.

On 3/28/73, NO 1283-C-TE advised that he recently

saw JOSEPH PORETTO when they both were visiting NOFIO PECORA

at the Methodist Hospital, where PECORA was confined for

several days in connection with high blood pressure and a

slight heart condition. Source said that PORETTO seemed

be in good spirits and was discussing with PECORA the

possibility of PECORA's purchasing a small farm or acreage

outside the Greater New Orleans Metropolitan area.

said that PECORA told him

that he is currently offering

his business for sale for $850,000, and has a great desire

to retire in hopes that he will live longer.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330879 Page 6

---

## Page 7

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992444 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-603

HVH/ mor

Source said that on 3/28/73, he stopped by the

office of NOFIO PECORA and observed Orleans Parish Assessor

CY HICKEY in conversation with PECORA.

Source said that it

was his understanding that CY HICKEY is a partner in an

insurance agency with FRANCES PECORA, wife of NOFIO PECORA.

On 4/26/73, NO 1283-C-TE advised that he recently

visited

the Tropical

Trailer Park to talk with NOFIO PECORA

concerning matters of mutual interest, and observed New

Orleans Assessor CY HICKEY in conversation with PECORA.

Source said that as soon as he approached PECORA, CY HICKEY

left the office.

Source said that PECORA told him that the deal

concerning the sale of 300 Decatur Street, New Orleans, had

been successful and that PECORA had sold the apartments.

na chan a nat

He said that PECORA is now attempting to sell his property

at 6027 Chef Menteur Highway, for the sum of $850,000, but

does not feel certain that he has any good prospects

at this

time.

Source said that PECORA told

him that he is

negotiating for a large house in slidell, Louisiana.

The

asking price of the house is $85,000, and PECORA is attempting

to buy it for $70,000.

Source said that he recently talked with NOFIO

PECORA and PECORA seemed to be doing

somewhat better. since

his recent heart attack and seems to be thoroughly convinced

that he should sell his business and retire.

Source said

that PECORA seems to want to retire to Slidell and has

almost succeeded in completing negotiations for a large

piece of property namely approximately five acres with a

house for the sum of approximately $80,000.

Source said that PECORA told him that he has

already obtained

a buyer for his home in New Orleans and

PECORA is considering

• the rental of an apartment if necessary

to tide him over between the time of the sale of his residence

and the occupation of his new house in Slidell.

On 8/1/73, NO 1283-C-TE advised that he recently

visited the office of NOFIO PECORA at the Tropical Trailer

H

COVER PAGE

diat

DocId: 32330879 Page 7

---

