# docid-32279175

## Page 1

8125/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John F

Back to Brief Results Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

08-14-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD

NUMBER : 124-10068-10079

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-110

File vort

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: SAC, CG

TO

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: (No Title]

DATE

: 11/22/1993

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

JR, BKG, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/14/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

Mir.

Mr.

Mr.

*fr.

"f".

Mr.

Tilron

Beltrost

Mahr.

Castar

Calaban

Convad

.S668510/6c1

3/10/53

8/31/95-57K)

• 9807 плева

MeeRal Rarend Or

OLONA INCAL OF JUSTIN

COMMUNICATIONS SECTIO:

1052

TELETYFE

1125

5/408-520/mLS

URGENT 11-2863

7-51 AM LJC

Bones

Miss Caddy

TO DIRECTOR, AND SACS, CINCINNATI, DALLAS AND LOS ANGELES

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 144-645/

2 PAGES

JACK LO RUBI, ARAO LEL HARVEY OSWALD, AKA. DASH VICTIMO,

CIVIL RIGHTS. :

RE DALLAS TEL AND CHICAGO TEL ELEVEN TWENTYSEVEN LAST.

RE ALLEGED COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES

RE UNSUB POSSIBLY JACK RUBENSTEIN, WHO ALLEGEDLY TRAVELLEI

TO MUNCIE, INDIANA, IN COMPANY OF SON IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE IN

EARLY FORTIES AND POSSIBLY IN NINETEEN FORTYSIX OR SEVEN.

SEYMOUR CHAZIN, ONE ZERO FIVE WEST ADAMS, CHICAGO, INTERVIEWED

THIS DATE BY SAS ROBERT A. VILLEMURE AND AVERY DACUS, AND ADVISED

HE IS A SON IN LAW OF SAM JAFFEE. CHAZIN STATED SUBJECT JACK

RUBENSTEIN UNKNOWN TO HIM AND THAT HE HAS NO KNOWLEDGE OF ANY CP

MEETINGS BEING HELD IN MUNCIE DURING FORTIES AND AT NO TIME EVER

ACCOMPANIED ANY GROUP FROM CHICAGO TO MEETING IN MUNCIE. HE

SAID ONLY SON IN LAW OF JAFFEE WHO MAY HAVE BROUGHT A GROUP FROM

CHICAGO TO MUNCIE IS NOW LIVING IN LOS ANGELES. THIS SON IN

LAW-S PRESENT NAME IS IRWIN BERKE., HOWEVEEd 12

BECAUSE OF HIS SHOW

4. 4.

BUSINESS AFFILIATIONS HE CHANGED HIS NAME FROM IRWIN BERKESTEAD.

B2 4016 - 110

CHICAGO INDICES ON IRWIN BERKESTEAD AND IRWIN BERKE NEGATIVE.

END PAGE ONE

ts-

996 % 31052

063

6

To Teenie

HH 53932 DooId:32279175 Page 2

---

## Page 3

....

PAGE TWO

FOLLOWING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS ACTIVE IN CP IN THIRTIES

AND FOURTIES WERE EXHIBITED PHOTOS OF JACK RUBENSTEIN THIS DATE

AND ADVISED THIS INDIVIDUAL UNKNOWN TO THEM AS ACTIVE IN CP..

CG FIVE SIX ZERO NINE DASH SOCS FIVE NINE ZERO EIGHT DASHS, JEE)

IC6 FIVE EIGHT NINE ZERO DASH SAUGE FIVE SEVEN NINE ZERO DASH S,

FORMER CG FIVE NINE ONE TWO DASH S, FORMER CG FIVE THREE SEVEN

THREE DASH S.

LOS ANGELES HANDLE INTERVIEW OF BERKE AS REQUESTED IN RE

CHICAGO TEL.

THIS CÓMPLETES CHICAGO PHASE OF INVESTIGATION TO IDENTIFY

AND INTERVIEW SONS IN LAW OF SAIS JAFFEE.

FOR INFO CINCINNATI, CHICAGO HAS IDENTIFIED ALL THREE SONS

IN LAW OF JAFFEE.

END AND ACK PLS

WA 8-58 PM XXXAM OK FBI WA

RM

CI

8-57 AM OK FBI CI GDM

DL

7-57 AM OK FBI DL EEA

LA

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 53932 DocId:32279175 Page 3

---

