# docid-32398290

## Page 1

Date: 01/24/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10104-10440

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

TO : CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

TITLE : "DISPATCH RE TRACES ON ROBERT K. BROWN CASE

PERSONALITIES".

DATE : 09/30/1971

PAGES

: 5

SUBJECTS

: MILITARY ARMAMENT

HINCKLE WARREN

BROWN ROBERT K

JFK ASSASSINATION

DEMELLO MRS M

DEMPSEY WILLIA

DUNCAN JOHN T

MILLER ROBERT

PATZ DORIS

PAULADINE PRESS

RICHARDSON PAU

SIMON SCHUSTE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/21/04

COMMENTS

: JFK37 : F17 : 20040112-1033566

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10104-10440

HH 53294

DocId: 32398290

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DISPATC

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

RYBAT

LEraces on ceraonalitics Involod in the Robert bEACH-cae

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action required: FYI

References:

UEAA-3027, 13 May 1971

В. UГAÁ-3040, 14 Iguy 1971

1. Following are Headquarters traces on personalities involved

in the Robert k. BROWN Case requested in Reterence A, leyed to the

order in which they are listed in the reference.

PaulRICHARDSON. This person may he

identifiable with Paul RICHARDS ON (201-911986),

alias for Paul Kuhlman H E I M, DPOB: 18 April 1930,

Greensville, Pennsylvania.

He was described in 1968 as

white, 6 ft, 2-3 inches; 175 pounds; black hair, greying

and balding on top; blue eyes, wears glasses for reading;

lean build; appeared in good physical condition and dressed

Was an aviation consultant and pilot.

He was dropped

from LNDEVY on 1 May 1967 with prejudice. In March 1967

ME I M advertised in a U.S. aviation trade newspaper for a

co-pilot or co-pilot mechanic to fly primarily in Europe.

HE IM inferred to a candidate (informant) that he was

connected with JKLANCE overseas and that be was an

officer in the LNLEVY reserve. Upon arrival in Zurich,

Switzerland in April 1967, A. E I M told the candidate that he

would not be employed by Transair as previously indicated,

/ Contined/

Of 21•1482

BARKED FOR MORANG

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

GREY QUADRIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXIMO

Distribution

3 - COS, WH/Miami

CROSS REFERENCE TO

(27 September 1971)

Distribution

16201-189473

1 - WH/COC/Chrono

1: DC/CI/SO

1. - WH/COG/OS

1

CCS

WH/SEC

OGC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UEAW-1264

83:

CLASSIFICATION

A3/0N0R2F

WH/COG/OS

OFTIKE SYMBOL

DATE

DC/CI/SO,

25 Sef

27 Lift?i

DATE

OFFICE STMBOL

C/WH/COd

FORM

1-43

HH

53294

63

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

MAFG. 11-20

DocId: 32398290

Page 2

DATE

80 SEP 1971

HOS THE NUMBER

201-189473

CRIGHAING

TYPIST

COORDILAUNG

OFFICER'S RAME

Jasou Horn (in draft)

Helen

Thens

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

Lawrence Sternfield

EXt

4163

DISPATCH

---

## Page 3

• SCONTNUATION OF

DISPATCH

SEASSIFICATIO

KYBAT/SECRET

CH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAW -1264

but as a pilot for Count 2 AN ON (AKA. ZENON and ZANNON),

and a Ceorgio MONDADORI.

ZAN ON was reported

to be a banker, and MOND A D O RI a publisher of magazines

and books. L" The ll June 1971 issue of the Washington Post

carried the obituary for Arnoldo MONDAD OR I, Italy's

number one publisher who retired two years previously leaving

the publishing house in the hands of his son Giorgio.

Yearly

sales were said to average $120 million dollars?.

On the above

mentioned trip to Zurich, HE I M was involved in smuggling

a large trunk (contents unknown) through customs in Torino,

Italy by bribing the officials. H E I M purchased a King Air

Beechcraft in May 1966 valued at approximately $500, 000,

which was registered to him for tax purposes but owned by

two wealthy Italians.

# E IM's U.S. business address in

1968 was Paul k. HE I M, Aviation Consultant, Hays Street,

Gettysburg: Pa. 17325. The foregoing was based on LNERGO

reports.

B. Monmouth Medical Center - NPII.

C. SealeR. DOSS - NPII.

*Pauladine Press (formerly Panther Publications).

By memo dated November 1967, WOMACE requested LNERGO .

to procure a list of toll calls made from the office of Panther.

Publications in Boulder, Colorado, and a similar list of toll

calls made

from the home of Robert K. Brown.

This request

was made as a result of Brown's harrassment of JKLANCE

with the avowed intent of publishing

a book exposing JKLANCE

INERGO advised that there was not sufficient

indication to justify an investigation falling within LNERGO

jurisdiction, thus the request was never

serviced.

E. Leon GAHIALAINE - NPII.

F. John H. DEMPSEY - NPII..

G. Mary C. DEMPS EY - NPII.

H. William J. DEMP SEX. It appears likely that

this subject may be identifiable with one William John DE MP SEY.

aka Bill, DFOB: 15 February 1941, Canada.. In May 1969 he was

described as blond hair; single; maintenance worker; Canadian

citizen; left arm 4 inches shorter than right arm. He went to

the Miami area in about 1961. Claimed to be a veteran of the

Canadian Army. He became involved with American mercenaries

and adventurers who formed a group under Gerald Patrick

HEMMING, veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, previously

reported in Brown traffic.

This group volunteered

their services

to various Cuban exiles who were then planning military expeditions

to overthrow the Governmeni of Cuba. Most of the persons in the

group bad criminal records and under police pressure left the

Miami area. DEMPSE Y has been involved in Cuban and

Haitian matters since that time.

Fie has been a technical advisor

to many Cuban exile groups concerning plans to infiltrate

and launch missions against Cuba.

Was involved with Rolando

MASFERRER Rojas, et al, in

planned an invasion of

Haiti in 1966. The participants were arrested by LNYAPA

officials, but DE MPS E Y evaded apprehension. In March 1969

FORM

8•64

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

RIBATY

REST

I CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

2

HH 53294

DocId: 32398290 Page 3

---

## Page 4

..•-CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSISICATION

RYEAT/SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UEAV 1264

he was arrested and incarcerated in Monroe County Jail, Key West, Florida,

along with elever other persons, in connection with an accident at a secret

military carap discovered in the Florida Everglades, allegedly being used by

Haitian exiles preparing to invade Haiti, DEMPSE Y was the commander

in charge of operations and training. DEMPSE Y and the other camp

commander, Edmund KOL BY, were in charge of disbursements. In June 1969

DEMPS E Y participated in a bombing mission at Port-Au-Prince, Haiti,

was deported from the Bahamas to Miami and arrested there by LNYAPA agents.

He later was returned to Canada but was not prosecuted. In September 1969

DEMPSE Y advised an LNERGO informant that he still resided in Canada

and was associated with ap American (not further identified) who was then

writing a book about the assassination of President Kennedy.

*De ME L LO - This no doubt is the Mrs.

De MELLO given by BR OWN as his mother and emergency addressee

when B R OW i was issued a regular passport in September 1966 for travel to

Denmark, Eagland and France on business. See paragraph 4, JMWAVE 9087

dated I Septerber 1967 (201-189473).

Chicago Sun Times = NPII.

Mrs. Drew PEARSON. NPII.

L. Robert Bruce *MILLER.

Following are listings from the October 1970 Denver Telephone

Directory:

Robert Bruce MILLER - 1039 Mapleton Ave., Boulder 449-0830.

Robert Bruce MILLER - 1966 13 (sic) Boulder 449-2830.

Followiug is a listing from the Martindale & Hubbel Law Directory:

Robert B. MILLER, lawyer, Boulder, Colorado. DOB: 1940;

first admitted to the bar in 1966, Received B. A. and J.D. degrees

from the University of Colorado at Boulder.

M. Denver Post Newspaper Switchboard - NPII.

*Military Armament Company - as of December 1970 had about 12

employees including four machinists who worked under the direction of Gordon

INGRAM.

It is a subsidiary of Environmental Industries, Inc. a Washington,

D.C. corporation reportedly bankrolled by some of the East's most prominent

investrent houses.

Also tied in with Environmental Industries is SIONICS

(Studies in Operational Negation of Insurgency and Countersubversion), organized

in 1967, also located in Powder Springs, Ca., which makes specialized light

weapons for LNGLUE and other counterinsurgeney forces around the world.

Director of international operations of Environmental Industries, Inc. President

of Military Armaments Co, and Vice-President of SIONICS is one Mitchell

Livingston WER BELL III (201-259910) well-known to JKLANCE and characterized

as unscrupulous, a "wheeler-dealer"' and a promoter of grandiose schemes.

WER BELL initiated contact with both overt and covert JKLANCE officers in

the later 1950's and mid-1960's to pass information on revolutionary matters in

the Caribbean area which was of little valve. On occasion he bas intimated

JKLANCE support or affiliation but has never been used by JKLANCE. Has

appeared in Brown traific re anti-Castro activities from Miami.

0.

Anderson & Cristofani Marine Ways - NPII. NPII on Walter A.

ANDERSONOIAl CRISTOFANI.

/ Continued#

PAGE NO.

FORM

M-fa

140)

53 a

• USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

HW 53294

DocId: 32398290 Page 4

RIT

I CONTINUED

---

## Page 5

. & CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

GLASSIFICATION

AT/CECRD2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAW -1264

Simon & Schuster, inc. An LNERGO report dated

January 1953 reflects that the Simon & Schuster firm in New York

City had a contract with an Amos MAN DMA. N, N,U.S. citizen,

free lance writer, and one time Communist Party member, to

gather material in Red China to write a book entitled "Behind

The Bamboo Curtain, "

Q. Publishers Development Corporation - NPII.

R. Mrs. Bernice FOSTER - NPIl..

S. John T DUNCAN

A Tom DUN C AN is cited in previous S LAF TE R

traffic (DBA-281l?, 19 Novernber 1962) (201-309125) as one of a

group of men headed by Gerald Patrick HE M MIN G training

on the key.

He was, the owner of a newspaper in Moore Haven,

Florida and appeared to be handling publicity and public relations

for the group.

One John Thomas DU N C A N (201-841921) was contacted

and assessed in July 1968 for use as a reporter/announcen for

the AMWIDE production facility. DU NO A N accepted the

AMWIDE job after a visit to Miami in August 1968 and discussion

with JAyANCE officers; however, in a follow-up contact with a

Headquarters officer in Colober 1968, declined the position.

One Richard D UN C AN (UPAT-345, 6 January 1968)

associated with Time Magazine, Columbus, Georgia, assisted

BR OWN in regard to research work in the Miami area re

Melmar and Zenith Corporations. Also see UEGA-29143, 18

December: 1967 (201-823964).

I. Wet Offset Publication Corp'& Web Paper Sales Co. - NPII.

U. C&P Telephone Company, Washingion, D.C., - NPII.

The telephone number cited in ref A is not listed in the Washington, D. C.;

Virginia or Maiyland Directories; however, two different calls

placed to that number identified it as a D.C. C&P Telephone nurber.

office of Miss I HORN. A MIss R QS S answered the phone.

Warren THINCKLE. This uadoubtedly is Marien James

HINCKLE (201-817303) born 12. October 1938, San Francisco,

California; graduate of the University of San Erancisco; editor of

Ramparts Magazine in 1904; and elected President in a bitter

intramural struggle for control of Ramparts in May 1967. The cover

of the December 1967 issue showed the burning of draft cards of

HINCK L E and three other Ramparts officials.

was presented the Emergency Civil Liberty Committee's (ECLC)

Tom Fayne Award at the annual ECLC Bill of Rights Dinner in

New York City in December 1967. He reportedly spent some weeks

in Prague prior to Rampart's exposure of JKLANCE and upon his

return the Rampart's deficit was settled. He resigned as President

and Editorial Director of Ramparts in January 1969, when the magazine

went bankrupt. He began the new monthly magazine, Scanlan, with

two New York Times

"staffers.

The first issue was published in

March 1970.

He reportedly is a heavy drinker of scotch whiskey.

FORM

604

(40)

53 a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGENO.

Al CONTINUED

1W- 53291

DocId: 32398290 Page 5

---

## Page 6

_• CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

(CH GYMBOL AND NUMBE

CFAW -1264

Per WH/ Miami 10769, 17 March 1971, B R. O W N's file, Scanlan

Magazine has expressed an interest in purchasing the publication

rights to the chapter of B R OW N's book entitled "The Phantom Navy. "

Military Armarent Company - previously listed on page three.

• of Ref A.

Doris P A I Z - The files reflect that a Doris PA T Z,

born 27 June 1949 in Berlin, Germany, West German citizen,

was a LNLAVt counter-intelligence recruitment lead in March 1967.

Her address at that time was 22 Prinzessinenstr., Berlin, West

Germany

Any additional information which comes to our attention on

the foregoing personalities will be forwarded to you.

Gloria L. NOROSEL

-6MAA

8•64

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

DAI/SECRET

PAGE NO.

5 0f5

NH 53294 DocId: 32398290 Page 6

---

