# docid-32337795

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90138-10064

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-1682-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE: 04/25/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JOE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337795 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

NECR

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLACCIECADION AND/OR,

- Liaison ELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

- Mr. Simps amIs DOCUMENT KP 5-20078

RECE 22

2-1682-

CONTA

SIFT

ATT, INPORA

5668 QUA/GAT

HEREIN IS

OTHERWISE

3r2d/sal

03211,326

83

93

Classified by

Declassifv.

9 APR2

COMM • ERI

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

April 25, 1961

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

John Edgar Hoover, Director

UNKNOWN SUBJECT

LAST NAME UNKNOWN

NEUTRALITY MATTER

COp

MADE

PICKI

Hower

#62-117200)

FOR

ASCA RES

(SEE BUFILE

Tolson

Parsons

Mohr

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

RDS: bgc

Tro. 83 MAY AL

Ingra

Candy

196.8,

April 20, 1961, Alfonso Hontes,

Coordinator for the Frente Revolucionario Denocratico,

an anti-Castro organization, advised

that on that

a white male named

last name unknown, aged 25 ,B: APPROA

contacted him offaring to sell arms and ammunition

to anti-Castro forces.

Joe clained

to be a salesman

for soneone near Scranton, Pennsylvania,

who had

previously sold ammunition in 1958 to the July 26th

revolutionary movement.

machine guns at 5120 each,

In contacting Montes 300 rounds of 45 calibér

Joe offered 50 sub-

ammunition at s. cents each, 1,000 carbines at $55

plus 37 new antitank

BY 5.618 500/15

JER).

each,

weapons with no price given

loe also advised that 15 bonbers were available i

bontes had the money.

He offered the

terms one-half

cash in advance with

the balance collect on delivery.

Joe indicated he could be contacted at felephone

Number PO 5-7508.

It has been determined that this

ECLASSIFIED

62-13-98

telephone number

is listed to Robert G

Batten, : 859

2ord.street,

Philadelphia,!

Pennsvivania,

Joe left the are

area driving a 1955 Ford

automobile with Pennsylvania license 45116D listed to

been detergined that this. license number is

Gregory

patten, ralso residing at 859 North 23rd

Street

Pennsylvania.

(5) JP

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45752 DocId: 32337795

Page 2

---

