# docid-32293119

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10395

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-81285-51, 52, 53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

11/22/1960

8

SUBJECTS :

REW, LTR, REL, USSR, REFUSED EXIT VISA, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 LHM, 2 MEMO

v9.1

HW 45984

21

DocId: 32293119

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD F

Office

vorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285) CP"1? *TADATE: December 20, 1960

SUBJECT:

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIPIED EXCEPS

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

SECRET THERE SHOWN HER IS.

IS - R

1222-91

Classified

rude

(00: Cleveland)

Declassity on: OADR

JFK

Re Cleveland Itter and letterhead memorandum dated 11/29/60.

, (Protect - requested)

1960, from the Embassy of the U.S.S.R. in Washington,

D. CH

∞ under the signature of My

-REZNICHENKO, Chief, Consular

DIVIs10n, addressed to himself, which 1s as follows:"

"Dear S1r,

"I have been asked to advise you that your

request concerning Mr. R. WEBSTER's departure

from the USSR has been forwarded to the appro-

priate Soviet authorities for their consideration.

"Upon receiving a reply from them we will

be glad to inform you about 1t.

"Sincerely yours,"

No further investigation being conducted at Cleveland.

The Bureau and other interested offices will be kept

ad-

vised expeditiously of any pertinent information concern-

ing the subject as it is received from RANDS)

J- Bureau (RM)

- Washington Field

€105-

- Cleveland (1 134-591) Y

M. REZNICHENKO E

JFC/maf

(5)

1111297

CLASSIFIED BY 5U68-500/ nidi

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

359)

REC-35 1 05-81285-53

25 DEC 23 1960

50DEC 2 9 1960

SECRET

NW 45984 DocId: 32293119 Page 2

---

## Page 3

stick.

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Ofice Mémurandum • UNITED SITES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

DATE:

November 29, 1960

SUBJECT:

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - R

(00: CLEVELAND)

/ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE 1494 Be naende

Re Cleveland letter and letterhead memorandum dated

11/22/60.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead

memorandum concerning the subject.

The source utilized in the letterhead memorandum was

Mr.

a source of information of

the Cleveland Division who has requested that his

identity be concealed. Mr.

furnished the

information contained in the letterhead memorandum

in the form of autostatic copies of correspondence

by the subject, his father and Mr. H. JAMES RAND.

The letterhead memorandum is classified "Confidential"

since the information furnished by the confidential source

could reasonably result in his identification and jeopardize

the future effectiveness of this source of continuing value.

No further investigation is being conducted at Cleveland,

and the Bureau will be kept advised of further develop-

ments in this case

as they are made available to the

Cleveland Division through sources at Rand Development

Corporation.

Bureau (Enc. 5) (RM)

1 - Cleveland

JFC: nip

(3)

EX- 105

AGENCY

REQ. REC'D

state, cia, INS

REC- 82

DATE FORW 12-6-100

195: 81285-52

16 DEC

/1960

& ENCLOSURE

БRDEC 6 196023

NW 45984 DocId: 32293119 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Elt Darestor, +4X (205-82285)

FROM

: SAC, Cleveland (105-3792)

SUBJECT:

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

00: Cleveland

DATE: 11/22/60

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of letterhead

memorandum containing information concerning the subject.

The information was made available by Mr.

Treasurer, Rand Development Corporation of

Cleveland,

Ohio, and a

source of information of the Cleveland

Division who has requested that his identity be concealed.

furnished the information in the form of an Autostat

copy of a letter from the subject to his parents. This copy

is retained in the subject's file in the Cleveland Division.

The letterhead memorandum is classified "Confidential"

since information contained therein could reasonably result

in the disclosure of the identity of l

a source of

continuing value to the Cleveland Division and jeopardize his

future effectiveness.

No further investigation being conducted at Cleveland.

The Bureau will be kept advised of further developments in this

case as they are received from sources.

NOCOSURE

"(RM)

OTHER 4

Bureau (Enc.

Cleveland

JFC/hs

(3)

AGENCY

N80. K3D

state; Cia; INs

DiTE FunN 12-1-60

HOW FORW 8-17, 017F10-6

BY

Eng/ mil

153

6SDEC1 1960

105-81285-51

REG. 92

=xg NOV 25 1960

NW 45984 DocId: 32293119 Page 4

---

