# docid-32308844

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10296-10172

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3445-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/30/1958

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JAN, CUBA REBELDE, FINANCES, ASSOC, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45678

DocId: 32308844

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56),

FBI

Co

Date:

8/30/58

Transmit the following in

AIRTE

lype in plain text or code)

Mer. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Nease_.

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen_.

Mr. Tamm.

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sallivan

Tele. Room..

Mr. Hollan

Miss Gandy.

Via Ar

FERDIN IS

MAY TON CONTAGREDIAO NO O

WN

OTHE

WISE®

TO:

---==

SUD/KSR 11-14-07

DIRECTOR JFBI (97-3445)

43-21-9 AND 79 177 53

hoc

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (109-106)

SUBJECT:

DIRECTORIO OBRERO REVOLUCIONARIO

aka, RAS

IS = CUBA.

Declassify on: DADR D

211,32

CORMBIEC

1374/90-JFK

10 45008 50/600

DECLAI

00(u)

¡protect identity,

with whom

insufficient contact has beef had to determine his

reliability, advised SA ROBERT A. BERMINGHAM, 8/29/58, he ha

DOR leader in New

REBELDE have 200 mep ar

ner and ready to depart for Cuba at

at moments notice.

was unable to determine the point

of departure, method of travel or approximate time of

departure other than the fact it could be any day.

He

identified ROIG, Dr. LaGUARDIA, a Negro Dentist, who 1s

acting as head of the Cubana Rebelde, and JESUS RODRIGUEZ,

a DOR member, all of New York, as teaders of this planned

pedition,

exa

xplained that the DoR is not cooperating

with any other revolutionary group other than the Cubana

Rebelde, Inasmuch as the DOR was not invited to the recent

Cuban revoluthonary meeting in Caracas, Venezuela.

He advised that he has heard that the July 26 Movement

has organized an armed expedition of 3000 men in the

United

States and also expects to land in Cuba in the near

future, He advised that he has also heard that Venezueal 1s

wide open for Cuban revolutionary activity and for the

obtaining of arms.

3-Bureau: (97-3445) (RM).

3-Miami

(97-186)

CirRE

9-3

30 31 014,5

108-26

(1-DOR) •

1-cubana Rebelde

]-July 26 Movement)

(109-106) (DOR)

'3

SEP

* 1958

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

I-New York

I-NEw York

I-New York

Approy New York

grecia dento charge

RApard

Tom

SEC.

.M

P.

NAI.

• CON

NW 45678 DocId: 32308844

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

FDj-36 (Rev. 12-13-56),.

• D

FBI.

Date:

Transmit the following in

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

NY 109-106

"further advised that the DOR in Miami

has become disorganized die to a split up between JOSE...

LALEMAN, ANGET COFINO andhHURIGOYEN, but RoIG continues

to have contact with members in Miami and with HURLGOY

JOSE ALEMAN is said to be furnishing money tolthe Cubana

Rebelde

to take part. in the expedition. I

advised that RoIf stated that he expects

Agvised that he

intends

to back out at the last minute

and notify this

office.

INS and customs will be notified locally

Bureau and Interested offices will be kept advised.

FOSTER

OTHER 4

71.41.

= 2 -

CONT

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45678 DocId: 32308844 Page 3

---

