# docid-32338722

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10140

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-370750-NR

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/11/1941

11

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HN 54460

DocId: 32338722

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

CONDER ML

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES

FILE NO.

100-6769

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

DATE WHEN MADE

12/11/41

PERIOD FOR

1130/5

12/1-8/11

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

S. R. RUSSO

CHARACTER OF CASE

HHS

HERBERT BIBERMANS

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON.

ALL STORMATION CONTAINA

FAREN IS UNCLASSIFIM

EXCAPPA HEKE SHOWX

OTHERWISE

INTERNAL SECURITY (R)

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

DEN

STRICTLY CONMDENTIAL

60445/

Daily association of Bureau agent wIth Subject BIBERMAN

continued, resulting in following oignificant disclosurest

(1) Subject met Minister of Finance, Loyalist Spain, when

In Mexiod, later entertedning hin at his Hollywoodland hone.

(3)

Subject's safa deposit box key observed.

Subject after discussion with Russian Consul, directe

melosures it soviet dipiontle pouches for transmittal to

945J000

(4) Undersheet of letter typewritten by Subject procured bý

artifice for laboratory aniysis.

(5) Subject procured grataltous services of PAUL, ROBESON for

Joint Spanish Refugee Conmittee benefit Decenber 4, 1941.

Subjects delight In successful fussian counter-sttacke,

in WINDELL WILKIE'S acceptance of SCHNEIDERMAN appeal to

U. So Supreme Court.

l(7) Subject's propagandising of Bureau agent noted, Including

presentation of radical book.

Subject's life history obtained.

JORIS IVENS Identifted and aotivities cited. Subjeot re-

quested IVINS arrange private showing of fussian propagenda 11lm.

deals furolan war rollof concert covered by Bureau persome JeW

Subtle Comunist propaganda noted In literary course taught by

Subject LAWSON under sponsorship League of

LAWSON'S role in

American Nriters.

TilDwL cited.

arrangements for reception tendered ERSKINE

-

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

100-

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

2 New York

2 Los Angeles

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

370250-

scout and

NOT RECORDAN

82

AUG. $ 1950-

U. S. GOVERNWENT FRINTING OFFICE

7-2034

NH 54460

DocId: 32338722

Page 2

---

## Page 3

the Fussian Government, Arny, and people. During this period, Subject has

stated that he was certain that Russia would dominate the peace conferences

which would result from this war, and has stated that the mistakes of the last

peace conference would not be

ropeated, inasmuch as Russia has the position of

guardian of the people of the world, and would not permit them to be "duped"

again. He stated that this would be possible because of the great numbers of

paople who are now organized in the labor movement. Subject continued in this

vien, stating that he did not believe that Russia would act to institute Com-

munism immediately after the war, but stated rather that Fussia would permit

the democracies to be re-built before it actively engaged in agitation for

"progress."

Attention 1s invited to the Subject's choice of the word "progress."

On the same date, Subject expressed happiness at WENDELL

WILKIE'S acceptance of the appeal before the United States Supreme Court of

WILLIAM SCHNEIDERMAN, Cormunist presently found guilty of criminal syndicalism

by the State Courts of California.

He stated that he believed this was signifi-

cant, inasnuch as WILKIE represents "Wall Street," and the moneyed interests,

and that he believed he would ultimately accept Communism. He stated fürther

that WENDELL WILKIE in his recent trip to Hollywood had appeared before a group

of motion picture and other Hollywood executives and made an "off the record!

Subject, stated that while he had not attended this luncheon, he had been

told that in his speech, WILKIE stated that the reason why the people of Russia

were fighting so valiently was because they had formerly lived under a Government

which had not given them the fruits of their labors and had set up one which did.

He stated also that WILKIE had said that they were fighting strongly and bravely

to protect this country. Subject then went on to say that WILKIE had stated that

the days of big profits and the economic system which we know were over, and that

what russia was doing was one of the future problems with which the businessmen

of America would have to deal. On this same date, reporting agent while speaking

to temporary Confidential National Defense Informant Number 3, who was present at

the speech, which Subject referred to, asked him whether or not WILKIE had made

any of the foregoing statements, and the Informant advised that he had not.

Throughout the period of instant report, Subject has been

presenting the typical Comunist propaganda to reporting agent, and on December

4, 1941, presented Agent with a gift in the form of a novel by EDWARD BELLAW,

entitled, "LOOKING BACKVAFD."

on the flyleaf of this book, Subject made an

appropriate and sentimental inscription, and signed it, under the name of December

4, 1941. It is noted that this book contains an introduction by the late HEYWOOD

BROUN, in which he states, "BELLANY did see with clear vision things and factors

much more important than the possibility of hearing a sermon without going to church.

Much which is now established in Soviet fussia bears at loast a likeness to the

Industrial arny visioned in this prophetic.book, However, Communism can scareely

claim BELLAX as its own, for he emphasizes repeatedly the non-violent features

of the revolution which he imagined. Indeed, at one point he argues that the left-

wingers of his own day impeded change by the

very excesses of their technical

philosophy

-- 40

: HH 54460 DooId: 32338722

Page 3

---

