# docid-32273747

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

9/22/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

NARA

181-10002-10135

RECORD SERIES:

NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCSGO

FROM:

SCHWARZ, FREDERICK A. O

TO : RHOADS, JAMES B.

TITLE:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54545 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 07/01/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ACCESS TO MATERIALS IN PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54545 Do0Id:32273747

¡Page

1

68

---

## Page 2

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

Received NA-N

JUL 1 19758

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

TUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITI

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 4TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

June 30, 1975

Dr. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National Archives and Records Services

Eighth Street

and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.

Washington, D. C. 20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

As the Select Committee proceeds with its investigation of

the question of possible U.S. involvement in the assassination

of foreign leaders, it finds that it needs to review minutes

(or memoranda of conversation) from meetings of the National

Security Council conducted during the Eisenhower, Kennedy and

Johnson Administrations,

as well as other NSC materials.

We

have recently ascertained that such material may be exclusively

lodged in the Presidential libraries. Members of the Committee

staff have been in touch with Dr. Reed and Mr. Jacobs of your

staff. They indicated that NSC minutes should fall within the

"section 11" category for White House documents--that is,

documents to which the Archives can grant access on its own

authority. They did indicate that you would, of course, consult

with the White House; that should be no problem given the

understanding the Committee has with the White House about

access to documents necessary to the assassination inquiry. Our

contact point at the White House is Mr. James Wilderotter

(496-7094), who should be able to provide the necessary clear-

ance.

Members of the Committee staff have been in touch with

the three libraries (Messrs. Wilson, Moss and Middleton) ,

notifying them of our need to review NSC materials.

We

under-

stand from them that an oral assurance from you that the clear-

ance has been obtained will suffice. The members of the staff

who will be reviewing those documents are (with the security

clearances each possesses): David Aaron (TS/SI/K/B), Karl R.

Inderfurth (IS/SI/K/B), Loch Johnson (TS/SI/TK/B), Robert

HH 54545

DocId: 32273747 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2-

Kelley (IS/SI/K/B), and Gregory F. Ireverton (TS/SI/K/B) .

We are interested, of course, in documents which make mention

of assassination or possible assassination; in addition, we would

like to review those NSC materials which would assist us in

setting the context of events we are examining.

and periods in which we are especially interested are: the Congo,

from January 1960 through February 1961; the Dominican Republic,

from January 1960 through July 1961; and Cuba, from mid-1959

through 1964.

Since the Committee intends to finish the assassination

portion of its inquiry within the next month, and since next week

will begin taking testimony to which the NSC documents may be

relevant, it would be helpful if staff members could review the

NSC materials later this week.

We would appreciate your assisting

in such expedition.

Sincerely yours,

Frederick A. 0. Schwarz,

Copy to The Honorable James A. Wilderotter

Associate Counsel to the President

HH 54545

DocId: 32273747

Page 3

---

