# docid-32423493

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER :

157-10014-10105

RECORD SERIES: MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SSCIA

FROM: ELDER, WALTER

TO :

MILLER, WILLIAM

TITLE:

CHRON IN MAY 1976

se kenne under the John

assassination Recorde

collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DATE:

05/00/1976

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/2000

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CCBOX 474

N9.1

HH 54653

DooId: 32423493

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Date :

08/06/95

Page

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

SSCIA

157-10014-10105

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

07-M-11

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : ELDER, WALTER

TO

MILLER, WILLIAM

TITLE : CHRON IN MAY 1976

DATE : 05/00/76

PAGES

SUBJECTS ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE : CORRESPONDENCE

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULI

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : CCBOX 474

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32423493

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Box 474

---

## Page 4

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

Review Staff:

4 May 1976

76-0401/1

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee To

Study Governmental

Operations With Respect To Intelligence

Activities

Room G- 308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D.C. 20510

Dear Mr. Miller:

Attn: Mr. Johnston

The Select Committee staff has expressed particular

interest in a review of U. S. policy towards Cuba beginning

after November 1963 and culminating in a meeting with the

President on 7 April 1964.

In response to the Committee's request, appropriate

files

were searched.

on

which final Agency positions were based could not be

located. There would be no reason to retain them.

It is

our understanding that the Committee staff has already had

access to final Agency papers on this subject as submitted

to the White House.

Furthermore, an Agency officer reviewed with a

Committee staff member the pertinent parts of the files

of DCI John A. McCone who was the most senior, knowledge-

able Agency official involved in the policy decision.

This letter is to notify you that we believe we have

responded fully to the request.

Sincerely,

Wast Elder

RECEIVED FRAMeN

Elder

Staff

MAY 5. 1976

CIA

54653

Page

---

## Page 5

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

R3013

leik

MAY 5 1976

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on

Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Church:

Transmitted herewith are the documents from the

Department of Justice files on anti-Castro organizations

which were requested by Mr. Jim Johnston of your

Committee's staff on April 12, 1976. Please be advised

that some of the materials being transmitted are classi-

fied.

Sincerely,

steven Blacklurst

STEVEN BLACKHURST

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

17:0.1116

NH 54653

DooId: 32423493

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECR' I

N*

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON. D. C. 20301

13017.

Clark

INTELLIGENCE

7 MAY 1976

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence

Room G308

Dirksen Senate Office Building

Washington, D. C. 20510

Dear. Bill:

(S) In further response to your letter of 8 April 1976 concerning

possible Department of the Army connections with the Second National

Front for Escambray and Alpha 66, I am forwarding the first of the names

of Army personnel identified as involved in intelligence operations with

Alpha 66 members by the attachment..

(S) I am sure that you will appreciate that interviewing individuals

who have been deeply involved in this type of intelligence operation poses

continuing risks from public exposure to both the former sources and case

officers.

(S) If the Committee or the Staff decides to interview Hubbard, the

Army has requested that they be allowed to have an observer present during

the interview.

Also the Department would want to review any part of

testimony taken in the connection if it is to be released beyond the

Committee or to the public.

(U) This information is provided with the understanding that it

will retain its present security classification.

Please call if you have

any questions.

Sincerely,

Thomas K. Latimer

Principal Deputy

Attachment

RECTIVE COM

Mar 7.191.

DOD

elassifir by--

•_ DASD(I)

EXENPT EROM CONSUL DECIASSTETCAICH SCARDULE 0F

MECUETYS CADER 11952. BACUPIION CATUGORI_ 3.

DECLACUIAY ON Impossible to determine

CRET SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32423493

Page.'6

---

## Page 7

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

chick

MAY 1 0 1976

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee.

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Church:

Transmitted herewith is a memorandum prepared

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with attach-

ments which is in partial response to a letter dated

April 28, 1976, from Mr. Paul Wallach of your Commit-

tee's staff.

Sincerely,

Steven Blackhurst

STEVEN BLACKHURST

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination.

RECEI

Now 1& 1916

FBI

SEVOUTION

HH 54653

DocId: 32423493

Page

---

## Page 8

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

62-116395

May 7, 1976

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to the April 28, 1976, letter of the SSC

containing requests for material from the FBI.

Delivered herewith is material responsive to item number.

seven of that letter which pertains to communications between

November 22, 1963, and December 31, 1964, from FBI Headquarters

to field offices and Legal Attaches concerning the investigation of the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy. In accordance with the

request, this response does not include isolated communications to

single offices that relate to particular investigative leads. It contains

general investigative instructions which were sent from FBI Head -

quarters.

No response is being made to item four of the April 28, 1976,

letter which requests "All materials reflecting that FBI sources

familiar with activities of the Cuban government, Cuban officials,

Cuban intelligence, anti-Castro groups, or pro-Castro groups (either

within or without the United States) were questioned during the FBI

investigation of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy." A

search for such materials would involve the review of voluminous

records, which would be impractical. As can be noted in the response

to item seven, instructions were issued for contacts of all informants

and sources. Results of contacts with sources familiar with Cuban and

Castro matters would be scattered throughout not only assassination

files, but numerous other Cuban and Castro files. Additionally, if

questioning of sources produced no pertinent information, if would not

necessarily have been reported to FBI Headquarters by the field offices.

FRI

This document is prepared an resucuse to una remest cod is not for dissemi-

nation outside vor Commater

your Comme qud lie control due moo be disclosed do roamchoriace persoil-

nel without the capices coproud of the rol.

1778-1078

54653 DocId: 32423493 Page 8

---

## Page 9

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

18020

lect

MAY 1.0 1976

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on

Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Church:

Transmitted herewith is a memorandum prepared

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with attach-

ments which is responsive to letters dated April 15,

1976, and April 29, 1976, from Mr. Paul Wallach of

your Committee's staff.

Please be advised that some

of the materials being transmitted are classified

SECRET:

Sincerely,

steven Blackhurst

STEVEN BLACKHURST

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

RECEIVER

MAY MI: 1979

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

TYIN

"real let me?

HN 54653

DocId: 32423493 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OFFICE. OF THE MIRECTOR

R3020

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

62-116395

May 6, 1976

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated April 15,

1976, requesting delivery of FBI materials concerning

FBI investigation of certain Cuban exile groups in the

United States, and SSC letter dated April 29, 1976,

specifically designating materials to be delivered.

Material responsive to the April 15, 1976,

request was voluminous and much of it required third agency

clearance. During a conversation between SSC Staff Member

Paul: Wallach and Special Agent Sammy J. Miller of the FBI;

an agreement was reached whereby access to the excised

material would be granted and subsequent request for

specific materials would be made. This was done as an

accommodation to the SSC to expedite handling of the request.

By SSC letter dated April 29, 1976, delivery

of certain documents from the original:

material compiled

was requested. This memorandum effects delivery of a portion

of these documents. The remainder will be delivered upon

receipt of third agency clearance.

In response to the portion of the April 15, 1976,

request set out in paragraph 6, the following Special Agents

handled the investigations of the Cuban exilengroups

specified in the request:

Tampa - Moses A. Aleman (resigned)

William C. Hay (retired)

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use as limited to official proccodinas !!

your committee and the content man nut be chisclosed to mauthorice! nein-

nel without the express approval of the F.2I

NH 54653 DocId:32423493 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

San Juan - John L. Spurgers, Jr. (present employee)

Steve D. Evans (present employee)

Wendell W. Hall, Jr. (present employee)

Dallas - Wallace R. Heitman (retired)

Miami - William Mayo Drew, JI. (present employee)

Chicago - David E. Houser (present employee)

New Orleans - Warren C. DeBrueys (present employee)

FBI Headquarters - Vinicio Henry Nasca (present employee).

REGENICO FROM

MAY 1:1 1918

FBI

MAL. ALAN

- 2-

74 54653

Doc1A-32423493

Page 11

---

## Page 12

R 30409

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON; D.C.

20505

Review Staff

18. Mạy 1976

76-0420

Mr.

William G. Miller

Staff Director

Select Committee To Study Governmental

Operations Nith Respect To. Intelligence

Activities

Room G-308

Dirksen Senate Office Bullding

Washington, D. C

20510

Afth:

Mr Johnston

Dear

Mr. Miller:

Pursuant to requests for intornation fron Messia, Jola

ston and Greissing of the SCistaff,

the following comments

and/or attachments are provided:

Paul C. Wallach,

in his letter ou

14. May 1976, requested information porr

raining to the Hinterdepartmental Coordinat:

ing Committee on Cuban Affairs

de: 2 Possible

Retaliatory Action by Castro Government"

Since this interdeparemental comettee was

charred by the Coordinator for Cuban AFfates

at the Department of State, pertinent

materials should be obtained from their

trles

As indicated to Mr. Johnston, we

are working with the Department of State

to expedice

the availability of documents

which appear to relate to Mr Hallachs

reques

ttached hereto as Tab A are tro

summartes,

apparently prepared for briefing

papers

which concern the Second National?

Tront

Of the Escambray (SIND) and Arpha 66

daced 1 November 1962 and g November 19621

nespes tavely:

As discussed with Mr. Johnston,

rever of our files does not refieet that

the Agency had any operational interest in

WAT

CIA

1776-1979

123499

Pate. 12

---

## Page 13

Review Staff:

Page ?

76-0420

either the SFNEror Alpha 66, although

certain individuals who were members of

these sroups, were recruited by the Agency

to report on the groups! activities or for

other purposes unrelated to SENE or Alpha 66

Short biographic sketches on some of these

recruited assets were shown to Mr. Johnston

and Mr. Greissing today and are being held

at their request:

We have been unable to locate any

memorandum to the White House dated 8 Decem-

ber 1963 relative

to a policy review on Cuba

However, attached hereto as Tab Bis a copy

of a 9 December 1963 memorandum for the

Director of Central Intelligence (DCI)

entitled, Considerations for U.S. Policy

Toward Cuba and Latin America"

As indicated

to Mr. Johnston, this menorandum was a joint

product of the then Plans (DDP) and Intel

Ligence (DDI, Directorates for use by the DoT

as a briefing paper in preperation forta

neting of the

"Standing Group" scheduled on

10. December 19630

Cab Bis. furnished.to/the

SSC on an

"ON LOAN" basis.

Please, return it

to us when it has satisfied your needs:

check of Agency records reflects thatthis

memorandum was delivered to the Executive

Assistant to the DCI on 9 December 1963 with

a carbon copy

to the Deputy Director. of

Central Intelligence on the same date

Mr

Johnston levied additional requests for information

during today's meeting relative to the Agency's Cuban Opera

tions

are researching these trems and will respond as

expeditiously as possible

Sincerely

seymoun 1

" Bölten

Chief, Revdew Statel

Attachments:

Tabs A and B

054653

DocId:92423493, Page: 13H/920(5D

---

## Page 14

JUSTiCE DENT ChIoN

Honorabla Richard S. Schweiker

United States Senate Seleat Comnittea

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Sahweiker:

This is in reference to your letter to the

Attorney General datad May 6, 1976, in which you

inquired as to why certain material possibly relating

to CIA assassination plots was not delivered to ther

Senate Select Committee pursuant to the request of

Senator Church dated May 12, 1975. Upon receips ename

your letter the Bureau was asked to determine why

materials were not discovered and reviewed when the

initial response to Senator Church'e request wags,

prepared:

The primary reason, according to the Bureau,

is that the FBI does not have a topical index to its

filos.

This means that Bureau personnel have to use

own judgment to determine where the requested

materials are likely to be located.

With reference

to the request relating to assassination plots, the

FBI decided to review 80 volumes of files raflecting

the relationship between the Bureau and CIA between

1958 and 1965.

The juraau and Select Committee staff

ambery Andrew Postal and David Bushong also reviewed

the volumas of a fila relating to Cuban matters.

The

limits of the Bureau's retrieval capabilities and the

problems involved in locating all relevant materials

parexplained to the SSC Staff members at that time.

tionally, the Committee has often been in

Hon of information that would asgist the

locating requested materials. In the past

I information was normally provided to the

BEA

assist in the preparation of a complete

respone..

However, I understand that with regard to

requests for assassination materials this was not done.

HH 54653

Docid: 32123493 Page 14

---

## Page 15

- 2-

with regard to delays in delivering materials

recency requested by teh Committee, the Bureau has

acy-bedue that it is doing its best to respond to the

Committeels requests in a prompt, yet thorough, fashion.

One of the problems is that the Committee's requests

are numeraus and in many cases general.

This causes

the Bureau to tie up large numbers of personnel unnece-

ssarily and causes delay in responding to the Committee's

requests. In addition; third agency clearance requirements

also cause certain responses to be delayed.

why the recently discovered materials were not made avail-

able to the Committee earlier.

sincerely,

MICHAEL E. SHAHEEN, JR.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

tio

54653

DocId:32423493

Pagé

15

---

## Page 16

NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20506

IOP SECRET ENCLOSURES

June 10, 1976

Dear Bill:

We have just received two additional documents from the

Lyndon B. Johnson Library that Dan Dwyer and Michael

Epstein had requested when they were in Austin.

We have reviewed the documents and are making them

available to you and your staff on a classified loan basis.

We must send the documents back to the. LBJ Library.

so please return these copies to my office when you are

finished with them.

Sincerely,

Bauer

Jeanne W.

Davis

Staff Secretary

Enclosures

Mr. William G. Miller

Staff Director

Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations With Respect to Intelligence Activities

United States Senate

Washington; D. C. 20510

TOP SECRET ENCLOSURES

- Arrarel

- Piano.

HH 54653

DocId: 32423493 Page 16

---

## Page 17

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

Honorable Frank Church, Chairman

United States Senate Select Committee

on Intelligence Activities

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Senator Church:

Transmitted herewith is a memorandum prepared

by the Federal Bureau of Investigation with attach-

ments which is in further response to a letter dated

April 28, 1976, from Mr. Paul Wallach of your Committee's

staff.

Please be advised that some of the materials

being transmitted are classified SECRET.

Sincerely,

steven: Blackakinst

STEVEN BLACKHURST

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

SB

NW 54653 DocId: 32423493

Page 17

---

## Page 18

OFFICE OF TIF DIRECTOR

UNITED STATES DEPARTNENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU O! IVESTIGATION

MASHINGTOD MG. 20605

62-116395

May 24, 1976

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO "

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated April 28,

1976, containing a request for access and delivery of

certain FBI material relating to the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy and plots to kill Cuban Premier

Fidel Castro. This memorandum is a partial response to

your request.

This memorandum effects delivery of material

which completes our response to Items 1 and 5b.

Per

conversation between Mr.. Paul G. Wallach of the SSC Staff

and Mr. Sammy J. Miller of FBI Headquarters on May 20,

1975, Item 1 material was changed from access to delivery.

This memorandum effects delivery of material

partially responsive to Item 3. Under this Item, only

material relating to 3d remains to be cleared by a third

agency. With respect to 3b concerning Morris Bishop, FBI

Headquarters files contain no reference to that name

during

the period 1962 to 1967 which, according to a conversation

between Mr. Paul G. Wallach of the SSC Staff and

Mr. Robert. D. Hampton of FBI Headquarters, is the period

in which your request is directed. There

are references

• to this name before 1962 which do not pertain to the

subject of this request.

This memorandum effects delivery of material which

completes our response to Item 8c. It should be noted that

CIA declined to clear several FBI documents containing CIA

information for delivery to the SSC. CIA advised that

This document is prepared in response to your request and is iot for dissemi-

nation outside your Commutec.

Its use li comtra to ofpcial mroceedles in

your commitee and the comtont may mut be disclosed to incuthorized verson-

nel mithout the express approval of the EBl.

C522

2723001 ArrO

NN 54653 DoeId:32423493 Page 18

---

## Page 19

255:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

these documents "do not relate to the general area in

which the SSC is interested." Per the above May 20, 1976,

conversation between Mr. Wallach and Mr. Miller, the SSC

is not further interested in this unrelated material.

It is noted, pursuant to the conversation between

Mr. Wallach and Mr. Miller on May 3, 1976, that portion of

Item 1 from the word "including" to the end of the sentence

was withdrawn.

2

NH 54653 DocId: 32423493

Page 19

---

## Page 20

6/11/76

Mr. James Johnston

Select Committee on Intelligence

Washington, D. C.

20510

Dear Jim:

This is to confirm that except for any objections

made by representatives of the Federal Bureau of Invea-

tigation, the Department of Justice has no objections

to the Select Committee's publishing its report, spare

formance of the Intelligence Agencies with Respec

the Assassination of

President Kennedy".

Sincerely,

STEVEN BLACKHURST

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

HW 54653

DocId:32423493

Pagé

20

---

## Page 21

aniled States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN

(rUMSUANT TO d. RES, 100, MTH

WASHINGTON. D.C. 205101

y300940740

June 21

381976

Honorable Frank Church

United Stakes Senatc

5 Koon: 245

Russell Building

Clashington, 00, 20510

Dear Franke

Our"Cormittee's reportion the performance

federal intelligence agencies in investigating"

assascinntion of former President Kennedy is now

cody for publication. This report will be released

10

the muslic

on Wednesday,,

June 23197630Itwillbes

cabargond until &p.m. of that day.

In

this connection

we have scheduled a

press briefing, to be held on Wednesday, the 23rd,

Moin 131s of the Dirksen Senate Office Building, at 1p.m

We each intend to offer a brief introductory statementy

rocarding our report at, that time, and will then respond

"o questions from the press. We would like to cordially

invilcooch menbor of thetSelect Committee to"

participate

withour at this briefing:

we hope you

ekinde regards

Sincerely

Can ye

chator

Richärd 'S Schweiker

United States Senator

Same letter to

Senators Howard H. Baker, Jr.

Charles McC. Mathias

Robert, Morgan V?

Walter D.

• Huddleston

Wälter F. Mondaleje

Philip A. Hart

John: Tower

Barry Goldwater

Jr

WH 54653 Docld?32423193 Page 21

---

