# docid-32300695

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10030

RECORD SERIES : FBI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2918-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/05/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SMO, BKG, ASSOC, HAZIDAKIS, MIKE GEORGE, REL, DESCR,

B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC. MEMO, LHM

v9.1

NW 45854 DocId: 32300695 Page 1

---

## Page 2

STAN]

Office Memorandum • UNIRD STATES GOVERNMENE

TO

Director, FBI

CON

NTIAL

DATE:

3/5/58

FROM

/ Pittsburgh (92-228)

00 - Pittsburgh

Rerep of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 2/14/58.

Enclosed are four copies of a leterhead memorandum

requesting background investigation in Athens and Perias,

Greece, concerning MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS, an associate of

the MANNARINO brothers. (@ (r>"

PA

B. APPROX 1900

As noted in rerep HAZIDAKIS is deeply involved in gambling

activities of the MANNARINO organization and it is felt

that the background information requested in the enclosed

memorandum, if obtained discreetly, would be most helpful

when interviewing HAZIDAKIS at a later date for the purpose

of developing him as an informant. Consequently the Bureau

is asked to have the investigation conducted through proper

liaison in Greece Isla)

The source referred to in the enclosed memorandum isl

J, an admitted New Kensington, Pa. numbers writer

and long time acquaintance of MIKE GEORGE HAZIDAKIS.

RECORDS, PITTSBURGH POLICE DEPARTMENT DISCLOSE SUBJECT

ARRESTED 1931 AS SUSPICIOUS PERSON AND FOR CARRYING CONCEALED

WEAPON; CONSEQUENTLY, HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

TIRE

- Bureau (Encl 4)oNVe

3

- Pittsburgh

1 - 92-236

EX. - 131

RGD : mz

(5)

134,376

Classifet

Declassily on

VGa

25/86

OTHER 4

ADIOS CO

CRED

LED

NI SE

/" REC, 50

EX - 131

22-2216-

82 MAR Y 1958:

''*61

SSIFIED BY 8I

CONMENTAL

HW

45854 DocId: 32300695 Page 2

---

