# docid-32290168

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10202-10444

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2640

Released under the John

• F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 05C 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45792 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

THURMAN, WILLIAM W. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/05/1975

'PAGES:

80

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ACT, MURDER, ASSOC, INTV, VARIOUS INDIVIDUALS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)2

Redact

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 15792

DocId: 32290168

Page 1

252

---

## Page 2

CG. 92-349

ADMINISTRATIVE

Investigative period overlaps that of referenced

report to include informant information not available at

time of last report.U

As Bureau is aware, Chicago is in possession of

material seized by Federal Grand Jury subpoena

pursuant to search warrant issued by Circuit

Court Judgé JOHN HECHINGER. Chicago is in the process of

reviewing this material and translating from Spanish to

English those

JEK Law 10(a)2

Other documentation in possession of Chicago pertains to

INFORMANTS

On, 6/2/75, CG 9561-PC advised SA FRANK J. FORD that

"Potsy" PEARL is operating his bookmaking operation on his own

on the north side of Chicago. Source stated there is an

excellent chance that in the very near future his entire

operation will be placed under LENNIE PATRICK. From what he

can gather, source stated SAM GIANCANA no longer gets any

income from PEARL's operation. U

Source stated that GIANCANA is very much on his own

and prefers it that way. Source advised that like a number of

old time Mafia leaders, GIANCANA has accumulated great wealth

and is not interested in acquiring a source of income from

Chicago area Mafia operations.

Source stated there has been

no conversation concerning GIANCANA and apparently GIANCANA

is not presenting any problem to the present Mafia bosses. U

= B.

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DooId: 32290168 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

On 7/8/75, CG 9561-CTE advised that nothing had

The word is still

rest of the people are satisfied the job was "well done". U

Source indicated it was his guess that

someone

very close to SAM was contacted and ordered to do the job.

When orders come from the top, you cannot get off. This

guy could well have been ENGLISH Or DOMINIC BLASI. Source

indicated that both had the complete confidence of GIANCANA

and would have no trouble getting into GIANCANA'S house. U

on 7/9/75, CG 6670-CTE advised SA FRANK J. FORD : ,

there is no question GIANCANA was "knocked off" with the

During the past week,

informant stated he has been at several hoodlum hangouts,

including the Hollywood Lounge in Cicero, Illinois.

one discusses GIANCANA and there is no talk about "revenge"

as there would be if the murder was not authorized.

On 1/15/75, CG 9561-CTE advised that GIANCANA'S

death still is not discussed by any mob members.

It is pow

well known that "SAM got someone high up pretty mad".

Source indicated that GIANCANA brought it on himself by

whatever he said or did since returning from Mexico.U

Source indicated that two LCN members were very

close to GIANCANA. He stated that one or the other/

probably got a phone call from one of the committee.

indicated that GIANCANA was definitely with

ever received the call would have no choice "friends" when

he was killed. It was source's opinion that either

CHARLES ENGLISH OF DOMINIC BLASI would be good suspects in

this murder. U

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DooId: 32290168 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-349

Source

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

CG T-1 & CG T-2

is CG 6481-PC

4/15/75,

5/14/75 WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR. U

6/10/75,

8/20/75

CG T-3 is a know- 6/20/75

ledgeable source

JAMES T. YORK U

- D*-

COVER PAGE

14 4579

DooId: 32290168 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MEX 92-13

RSC: sls

1

JORGE CASTILLO ZEPEDA

DONE

Various sources have indicated that CASTILLO i$

a Mexico City attorney with offices at Plaza de la Republica

32 - First Floor, telephones 566-8245 and 566-5900. He

resides with his wife, MARIA LUISA CARRANZA IRIZA DE

CASTILLO,

at Lava 135

in the Pedrega

section of Mexico

City, unlisted telephone 568-1570

In September of 1966 Mexican Immigration requested

background from the American Embassy concerning SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA who reportedly was in Mexico as a tourist and

making application to change his status to that of "rentista"

(self-supporting immigrant).

This petition was denied

apparently

on the basis of his background in the United

States

A high official of the Mexican Secretariat of

Government confidentially advised at that time that the

subject was represented by a very prominent attorney in this

matter and this attorney had been personally admonished for

representing this type of client before the Government let a

Subsequently,

it was learned that the attorney in

question was CASTILLOX

CASTILLO also represented RICHARD SCALZITTI CAIN,

American, born October 4, 1931, Chicago, Illinois

who in

1966

also was petitioned

to immigrate to Mexico!

(414)

In addition, in 1967 CASTILLO represented CAIN's

wife, HARRIETTE BLAKE CAIN, before Mexican Immigration for

a permit to work on Mexican television.&

The Mexican Government reported the departure of

GIANCANA from Mexico under governmental

orders September 10,

1966, and thereafter, in 1967, CASTILLO claimed that to his

knowledge GIANCANA had not returned

to Mexico since that

time and, in fact, furnished officials of Mexican Immigration

with postcards he

supposedly received from GIANCANA from

France and Spain.

((u)

3

NW 45792 DooId: 32290168 Page 5

---

