# docid-32309800

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-1ST NR 87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WANNALL, W. R.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 02/14/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

IID, ASSOC, POLIT, CONTRIBUTIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/20/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309800

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kenredy Assassination Records Collectión Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11214-2017

D, C. Sallivon

SECRET

W. Bo Weanoll

MBASSY ON MICARACT

IRFANAL SECULITY » NICARAGNA

February 14, 1963

Belmont

Evans

Rosen

Sullivan

WannalI

toler

special coveroge on lllenraguan

mbaosy has produced lafos-

mation

Nicaragua"s concern over pubiteity uith regard to alleged

contributions

campaign fund of Represontative Dantol d, Flood

Pennsylvania.

DETAIZE:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X /p

(JFR)

8/12/63 ou

(spocial coverage of Nicaraguan

Enbaesy, repertor

chat date Nicaraguan Militory and Air Attache

(General Jullo G,

Davidson commented that

should stay there awhile

thoy

ore sitting on the "grand jury"

and they want to act him about

cheats.

Person refered to as

"he" vas not further identisted,

his first nano possibly 10 Pron as DavidsonXchon conjectured chat

probably got his rogular chock for

$1,000 p

and that rlood" probably

endorsed it and cached it at the bank in the Capitol for

Davidson varned floralos to eet tord to

• Nicarague and

"Trank."

said that alchough

was close to "Drew" he could do nothing.

Be had even

tried "plata"

(Opanish for silver).

In connection with the above fat is noted the conversation tas

couched in voty circumopect

terns and

that Porand Jury"

nay vell hive

referred to current hearings o1 Seanto Foreign Belations Committee

noted that Drot Peerson In his 2/13/63 column in the

"Techington es

fines Herald" reported that Sebate probess had

unearthed a

$10,000

coner bation Iron Luis sonozo and his brother anastasto Seroza, Precia

and Secretary of Defenso of Nicaragus,

rospectively, to the 1960 eleet

campaion of Prosident Kennedy.

According

i to Pearson, Bennedy bos ups

of this contribution.

Pearcon alco roported a $1, 500 contribation

boen made

the compaign of bopresentative Daniel J.

Ponnsylvanta.

Pearson alleged these contributions were made through Fra

rogistered agent of Nicarogue.

advocate of a canal derone

[300-149095

1 - 1412=

Inclosure

WEEBREN

EBORDED

2-1423

(I.

& Davideon)

52 FEB 18 1963

*-68-98942: (Senate Toreign Relations Connittee CONTATA

2 + 3845805

(Conbribe)

1 4973465

Cans l. BarryD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWE

AGang Y FÉB 19 1963

VINERWISE

DocId: 32309800

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE /11-14-2017

Menorendun

to

Re:

N7 .

EMBASSY

100-148895

OF NICARAGUA

SECKEL

in pedition, according to our souzce, Davidson told Morales that

ho had told "Frank"

and the

"General" a year ago that

"Frank should not

have done that," that Penreon vould put it in the paper and it could cause

embarrassment,

It to noted that one Frank Barny is rogistered vich the

Department as agent o1

Nicaraguan Governmoat.:

On 1/31/63

our source

reposted Batery could be in licoregun subsequent to 2/7/63e

Ve tavesticotod Davideon to 1961 to deterine vethor he mas An

Violation of the foreign Agents Registration Act o2 1938; 08 anoaded.

Department, Zeeling Davidson's supplemental regiatration statements vere

not sufficiently detailed as to receipts and expenditures, requestod us to

exantne his books and records.

we be on lookont

for infornation involving Davideon vich James Riddle Hotta of Peanstea

union, as Davidson shared difico space with associato of lotte. Luring cut

examination os Davidson's records, ho disclosed to our gents that bo hed.

bustness

dealings pith Losta in the past and professed to be. fascinated

by kolza's personality.

So altoged ho knce of no prongful sets on the

part of Hotta.

This inforuation das lurnished Departnont.

In addstion,

OB

6/36/61'v0 furnishod Departnent 15l-pago report setting forth restico

our examination of Davidsonte recorde and advised no further Invoats,

sation would be conducted in absence of spocitie roguest.

No such request

redelved.

Actorney Genoral and Department rould be interested in infor

nation from our cource es Wallian de

Toley, Criminal Division, adviood

Assistant Dircotor C. A. Ivans 2/13/63 that

Sonate foreign Relations

Cormitteo bad

Inquired of him about Davidson.

undertako 1o

In viou of the noturo of the information here, we should

undertake no investigation in absence of a specitic request.

AOTION:

Is you approve,

attached letter vill

be sent to Attorney

General,

nith coples: to Deputy Attorney General and Assistant Attorneys

Goneral in chargo of Criminal and Internal Security Divipions, Zuriching

information fron our

source and Stating no inguirios oill be made by

regarding this mattez in absence of a specifie zoguest.

SECRET

DocId: 32309800

Page 3

---

