# docid-32333365

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90106-10221

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

SJ

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :'

01/25/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: TT, REFERRED TO USCG

v9.1

DocId: 32333365

Page 1

44

---

## Page 2

Released anger

the rohn F?" Kennedy AsCassihation Records Collectfon Act of 1992-144 USC 2197

ngte).

ATE: 11-74/2017

TELECIPE UNIT

1903

ENCOD

MESSAGE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belorch-

Mr. Mohr.-~

Mr. Casper---

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt-

Mr. Cale..

Mr. Roscn_

Mr. Sullivan-

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. Wick_-

Tele. Room-

Miss Holmes-

Miss Gandy-

(ANAGERAER

NR

URGENT 1-25 - 66 CRT

TO -

DIRECTOR, LEGAT, SANTO DIGINGO AND MIAMI

(LEGAT, SANTO DOMINGO AND MIAMI VIA WASH)

FROM-- SAN JUAN: (105-5928)

HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES; IS-HAITI.

RE SAN JUAN TEL JANUARY TWO FOUR LAST.

(ENCODED)

W

antirel

ON JANUARY TWO FIVE INSTANT, SOURCES FAMILIAR

WITH CUBAN AND HAITIAN MATTERS IN THE SAN JUAN AREA

COTTES

ADVISED THAT NOTHING HAS COME TO THEIR ATTENTION INDICATING

A

PLANNED INVASION OF HAITI• SOURCES FURTHER ADVISED THAT

BOATS CONTROLLED BY COMANDOS L ARE NOT SEA WORTHY AND THERE

IS NO INDICATION THAT ANTONIO CUESTA DEL VALLE IS OR HAS

RECENTLY BEEN IN PUERTO RICO.

CAPTAIN ROBERT WILCOX, U.S. COAST GUARD, ADVISED

105-017222

ON JANUARY TWO FIVE INSTANT THAT THE "ANGELINA" A COMÁNDO L BOAT AND

TWO OTHER BOATS WHICH RECENTLY HAVE BEEN OBSERVED IN CONTACT WITH .

THE "ANGELINA", THE "GLENN ROCK" AND THE "OZAMA" WERE

stits opene

JAN 28

BOARDED BY THE COAST GUARD ON JANUARY TWO FIVE INSTANT

STAN 219-1966

FOR ROUTINE INSPECTION AND THERE WAS NO EVIDENCE THAT

LATI

ANY OF THESE BOATS WAS LOADED WITH ARMED CARGO NOR

HAS

THERE BEEN ANY OTHER UNUSUAL ACTIVITY NOTED

END PAGE ONE

i secisite in ice tel 1/23716

SM

MR DRAG:

07 7S:

105÷117277

5668-540

PB 50/1222

1-2495 TFK. NOT RECORDED

69 FEB 4:

CONTA

-93G JẠN 28 1966

DUAT 12

2s.90

ORIGINAL

DocId: 32333365

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releasetsunder

he John P. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

79172l4

10 1636724:30

PAGE TWO

THROUGH THEIR AT LEAST IWICE DAULAPORT CHECKS. FURTHER

THERE HAS BEEN NO EVIDENCE THAT ANY BOATS IN THE SAN JUAN

AREA ARE TAKING ON ARMS.

CAPTAIN WILCOX REITERATED THAT THE ONLY INFORMATION

HE HAS CONCERNING THIS MATTER CAME FROM COAST GUARD SEVENTH

DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS, MIAMIC AND HAS BEEN DISSEMINATED

LOCALLY TO ONI, BUREAU OF CUSTOMS, AND FBI ONLY.

MIAMI WILL ASCERTAIN FROM COAST GUARD SEVENTH

DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS, MIAMI, THE SOURCE OF THIS INFORMATION•

SAN JUAN WILL CONTINUE TO FOLLOW THIS MATTER.

AIRMAIL COPY BEING SENT NEW YORK•

END ACK. PSE GA

F

BNWFLAJDV

JREXXX JRL

R RELAY

FBI WASH DC 7-58PM

* Gerated

1.41

20 SAS AMOGAME

DocId: 32333365 Page 3

---

