# docid-32397319

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CLA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10433-10002

SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

*. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

EROM :

TO :

TITLE : DISPOSITION- THIS DOCUMENT WAS RELEASED WITH PORTIONS

DELETED .

DATE : 03/13/1967

PAGES : 14

SUBJECTS : DELETIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

:1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/21/98

COMMENTS : JFK-RH19 : F02: 1998.08.21.12:07:01:530129 : 3

DISPATCHES, 2 MEMOS, 1 CABLE ATTACHED. CORRECTED TO 14

PAGES VICE

19.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10433-10002

H4 53320

DocId: 32397319

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1058 - 947 - S

3 March 1972

Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted. The

deleted portions contain information which would identify a sensitive foreign

intelligence source and information identifying an Agency staff employee.

deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1) and (b) (3) .

11H 53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(ENT)

(as here,

Lynn

ses pel

Nim.

Oswald Case

The Archivist of the United States has custody of the Warren

Commission documents relating to the assassination of President

Kennedy. CIA, the FBI, and other governmental agencies involved

in the investigation are required to review their classified material

in the above collection every five years through 1975 and at 10-year

intervals thereafter for the purpose of declassifying items which are

no longer deemed to be sensitive from a security standpoint.

has cooperated fully in this endeavor and has released ajnumber of

documents into the public domain over the years.* Anything declassi-

fied by us has been strictly on our own volition always bearing in

mind CIA!a staturory responsibility to protect intelligence sources

and methods.

We have been pressed a number of times by "assassination

buffs"' and also by CIA critics to release classified documents,

particularly those relating to an unknown man photographed in

front of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City/who, so far as is known,

had absolutely nothing to do with the assassination. In order to

protect a most sensitive source, we have never publicly indicated

where and how it was taken, although we made a full disclosure to

the Warren Commission at the time of the investigation. The picture

published in the Commission Report was cropped to screen out (then

Soviet Cmbasay,: Had il been released untouched the soviets would

have recogaized the location instantly; traced its origin to our fixed

observation post from which it was taken; and established the identi

ties of the surveillants. The post is still a very productive source

of intelligence information. At this very moment (3 March) we are

In the process of answering an outside request for an "uncropped"

picture of this man. Invariably we are threatened with a lawsuit

under the Freedom of Information Act if we don't comply. ->

Because of our need to protect sources and

methods, we have

had to endure all kinds of phony charges that we were involved in a

military-industrial conspiracy to assassinate the President.

single CIA exhibit has incriminating content, nor could this be since

CIA had nothing to do with the assassination, This Agency never

contacted Oswald, interviewed him, talked with him, or received or

Document Number

1058-947s

for FOlA Review on

SEP 1978

ThAT !

HH 53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 3

---

## Page 4

solicited any reports or information from him, or communicated with

him directly or in any other manner (Helms-McCone public testimony).

Most of our exhibits consist of "nut" complaints, rumors, gossip,

etc.; which have no security significance per se but could be embar-

rassing to an innocent person involved; disclose a productive and

friendly foreign source; or acknowledge CIA "presence" abroad where

diplomatically this would be inadvisable. In due time, of course, all

CIA exhibits will be released into the public domain.

(Prepared by A, E. Dooley)

3 March 72 for possible

use of the Director

53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 4

---

## Page 5

1060

990

1060 - 970

3 July 1967

Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted: The

deleted portions contain information from which it would be possible to identify

a foreign intelligence source, information confirming the existence of an

Agency station in a specific city abroad, information identifying several Agency

staff employees, an Agency component and Agency internal filing instructions.

The deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2)

and (b) (3).

HH 53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PROCESSING ACTION

TO

INFO:

DISPATCH

Chiet, Wil Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRII

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NOCX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

MICROFILM:

* Lee Harvey OSWALD 30/-2892X8

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REFERENCE: (HMMW-15574, 26 June 1967

o Freid

disposition

of photo popts negative of photograph

MeNtIONed IN HAMW - ISS 14 26 PUNe 67

1.

The revative of zetorence photograph in sided et tigran

Mexico Station

This photograph was taken

in tront of

Embassy but the photograph published in the Warren Commission

Report

was taken in front of the Soviet

Embassy.

2.

This Station has on file negatives

of both photographs.

Willard C. CURTIS

Or1r: 8 2 -C/WHD)

Document Number

1060-970

for FOlA Review on

SEP 1976

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Excluded trow a toman

donograding and

deciestlication

CS COPY,

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

IIMMA-32433

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

20: 28048

DATE

3

July 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-

HH 53320

DocId:32397319

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DISPATCH

Chiot, l

CLASSIFIGATION

XXX

PROCESSING ACTION

LIARNED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIZO DESK.

CAR JUOGE INDEXINO

MICROFILE

Chief of Station,

3u31a0T

* Lee Harvey OSWALD

NOTION REQUIRSO • RSFERENCES

REFERENCE:

26

June 1967

I. The negative of reterence photograph is filed

This photograph was taken

but the photograph published in the Warren Commission

Report was taken

2. This Station has on file negatives of both photographs.

Orig &

20. a

Document Number

for FOIA Review on

10-970

SEP 1976

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL ATIO NUMBER

DATE

CLASSIFICATION

3 July 1967

NOS FILE NUMBER

53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1080-

962

1080 - 962

9 May 1967

Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted. The

deleted portions contain information confirming the existence of an Agency

station in a specific city abroad, operational cryptonyms, information

identifying Agency components and Agency internal filing instructions. The

deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b)(2) and

(b) (3).

53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 8

---

## Page 9

INDEX#

• YES 8] NO

CLASSILY TO FILE NO.

*RE 0102 NET.

DESTROY (J sIG.

FROM

201-287248 GASIFIED MESSAGE

BRANCI

-SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHISITED

$

4)

ACTION

WH8 )

RID COPY

INFO

FILE UR DAP. ADOP,

ADVANCE COPY

IssueD

I SLOTTED TUSCO

CI/OpS, FT,

UNIT

TIME

BY

CAL

CA/PROP

(EE 01+3) 0916102 CITE (MEXICO CITY 1369)

DIRECTOR

ABSTRACT

9H4 6/ 1763224

1. FOLLOWING FROM CHIEFLNERGO LOCALLY ON 8 MAY AND FOR

HQS INFORMATION ONLY.

2. NR. BERNARD DIEDERICH, CHIEF LATIN AMERICAN BUREAU OF TIME

FBI

LIFE WAS INTRODUCED ON A MAY TO CHIEFLNERGO BY AIDE TO CHIEF

EMBASSY

L NPURE,

3• DIEDERICH SAID HE HAD BEEN ASSIGNED TASK OF DETERMINING

FACTS ABOUT A PHOTOGRAPH (NOW KNOWN NOT TO BE LEE HARVY OSWALD)

WHICH(VO/ACT) SENT URGENTLY TO LNERGO)DALLAS ON DAY PRESIDENT

KENNEDY MURDERED. DIEDERICH SAID PHOTO APPEARED IN WARREN

REPORT

AND IN AN ESQUIRE ARTICLE.

FBI

4. CHIEFLNERGO) TOLD DIEDERICH HE HAD NO COMMENT AND SUGGESTED

DIEDERICH GO TO WASHINGTON IF HE WISHED TO INVESTIGATE IHIS MATTER

DIEDERICH INTIMATED HE WOULD GO TO GENERCO) AND (WOFACT) WASHINGTON.

CHIEF LNERGO) REPORTED TO HIS HAS - SKED THAT FACI HE REPORTED

TO STATION NOT BE TOLD HIS HQS

(SSCRET)

(вт)

Dooumant Number

1080-962

SEP 1976

for FOlA Review on

201-289248)

9 MAY6T

HH 53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(

O YES

BI NO

CLASSIY TO FILE NO.

X- REF TO

FILE NO.

FILE

RET.

TO BRANCH L

DESTROY

FRON

ACTION

TNFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL

COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED 2

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIEO

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TINE

@91610Z CITE

DIRECTOR

& HAs i7

1963224

1. FOLLOWING FROM CHIEF FBI LOCALLY ON 8 MAY AND FOR

HQS INFORMATION ONLY.

2. MR. BERNARD DIEDERICH, CHIEF LATIN AMERICAN BUREAU OF TIME

LIFE WAS INIRODUCED ON 4 MAY TO CHIEF FBI BY AIDE IO CHIEF

EMBASSY.

3.. DIEDERICH SAID HE HAD BEEN ASSIGNED TASK OF DETERMINING

FACIS ABOUT A PHOTOGRAPH (NOW KNOWN NOT TO BE LEE HARVY OSWALD)

WHICH CIA SENT URGENTLY TO FBI DALLAS ON DAY PRESIDENT

KENNEDY MURDERED. DIEDERICH SAID PHOTO APPEARED IN WARREN REPORT

AND IN AN ESQUIRE ARTICLE.

•4. CHIEF FBI I TOLD DIEDERICH HE HAD NO COMMENT AND SUGGESTED

DIEDERICH GO TO WASHINGION IF HE WISHED TO INVESTIGATE THIS MATTER,

DIEDERICH INTIMATED HE WOULD GO TO FBI: AND CIA • WASHINGION.

5. CHIEF FBI REPORTED TO HIS HQS - '

Dooument Number

1080-962

SEP 1978

for FOlA Review on

9 MAY. 67

HH

53320

DocId: 32397319 Page 10

---

## Page 11

1088

969

1088 - 969

26 June 1967

Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted. The

deleted portions contain information from which foreign intelligence sources

and methods could be identified and compromised. Other deleted information

includes information confirming the existence of an Agency station in a specific

city abroad, information identifying Agency staff employees, Agency

components and Agency internal filing instructions. The deletions were made

under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b)(2) and (b) (3).

HH 53320 DocId: 32397319 Page 11

---

## Page 12

DISPATCH

Chief of Station

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

Mexico City

INFO.

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM:

Chief,

WH Division

MICROFILM

SUBJECT:

O Lee Harvey

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

OSWALD

o Identification

I MANAT

OF CUbAN

References:

CMMA-32103)

(EIMMW-15488,

29. May

1967

18 May

1967

addition to the photos forwarded to Headquarters

dated 22 November 1963

of the mystery man

Soviet Embassy Headguarters also has e

photograph taken in front of the Cuban Embassy of a nan who

appears to be idebtical with the "mystery man"

The date

written on the back of this print is 15 October 1963.g We

have no record of a transmittal dispatch number, only an

indication it was forwarded here by your Station. The

background on this one photo was compared with another

photograph recently subnitted by you to Headquarters of

another unidentitled person photographed entering the Cuban

Embassy and there is little doubt that the 15 October 1963

photo was indeed taken(in front of the Cuban Embassy)

This photograph was the one referred to in iMW- 15488.

Headquarters assumes that you also have the negative of this

15 October 1963 photograpb.

Document Number

1088-969

for FOlA Rover nn

SEP 1576

(Blate I. SCALETIT

Distribution:

COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

85 COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

EMMW-15574)

601-289248)

DATE

29 JUN 18

26 June 1967

CLASSIFICA?

SECRE

GROUP 1:

Excluded from automatic

classication

ORIGINATING

NOS FILE NUMBER

201-289248

(RI

Chrono)

OSWALD

soft tile

Wif/1

OFFICER

TYPIST

Sas

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME:

FI

*I/R&A/

docu (draft)

PSS

ABSTRACT

EMBAR

6954)

OPFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/1

DATE

4/г6

160)

FORM 53

11H 33320

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

DocId+32397319 Paye 12

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SICNATURE

W.

J. Kaufman

Farle

DISPATCHY

---

## Page 13

CEMEN GATION

DISPATCH

chie?

MARKED FOR INDEXING

1O INDEXING REQUIREO

ONLY QUALIFIED DESA

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

Chief,

Cer Harvey OSWALO

•ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

RICROFIL

Neferences

29

May

1957

18

May

1967

In addition to

the paotos forwarded to Headquarters

22 November 1963, of the mystery

under

Headquarters' also has a

of a nan who

photograph

appears to

be identical with the "mystery man"..

The date

written

on the back of this

print is 15 October 1953-

bave no record of a transmittal dispatch number, only an

indication it was forwarded:

background

on this one photo was compared with another

photograph recently submitted by you to Headquarters of

another unidentified person photographed

and there is little doubt that the 15 October 1963

photo was indeed taken

This photograph was the one referred to in

Headquarters assumes that you also have the negative of this

15 October 1963 photograph.

Document Number

1088-969

for FOlA Povipy na

SEP 1976

Distribution:

2 /

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

83 COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

OFFICER M

20 109-10

DATE

26 June 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER*

ORIGINATING

TYPST

COORDINATING

EXT

OFFICER'S NAME

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

DATE

4/26

840)

FORM

53.

LAS PREVIOUA ROITION.

wW 153320

DocId:32397319 Page 13

DISPATCH

---

## Page 14

1134 - 993

25 February 1970

Disposition - This document was released with portions deleted. The

deleted portions contain information identifying Agency components, Agency

staff employees, operational cryptonyms and Agency internal filing instructions.

The deletions were made under the authority of exemptions (b) (1), (b) (2)

and (b)(3).

1154-

993

53320

DocId: 32397319

Page 14

---

## Page 15

)

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATICIN

PRE OCESSING ACTION:

JARKED FOR INDEXING

TO

INFO

FROM

Cater, HOUSE/Research and Analyats,

Chier, (Wit Divlaton

Chief of Station,

Mexico C1

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

Fonverding of personality fil

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

on Lee Harvey Oswald (201-289248)

Action Required: For inclusion in Subject's Headquarters 201 file.

Forwarded herewith are the complete Nexico Clty person lity

files on Subject. Much of the material herein is ho doubt avati-

able at Headquarters, but it is believed that your staff may find

a complete review of the field file of interest and of historical

sigalficance,

Attachments:

6 volumns b/w

Distribution:

2) - C/WOMUSE/RaS

Mr/atts h/w

- C/WHD) w/o atte

Document Number

1134=993

tot FOlA Review on

SEP 1976

C S

BULKY

ONL IP/TILES, IXT

FOR ATTACHMENTS.

6867

BELINES

CENTER J03 ND.

c9X/10.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SEE BULKY

RECORD COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMT - 10150%

CLASSIFICATION

SECRAT

(201-0289248)

25 February 1970

HOS FILE NUMBER

HT 53320

DocId:32397319

Page 15

---

