# docid-32316935

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10351-10242

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-158

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/31/1976

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT -

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

.v9.1

DocId: 32316935

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CGPB15 2442105

RR HQ MM

DE CG

R 3121 05Z

AUG 76

FELINEEL DUNEHOLE IN WEDNESON

COMMMI ATIONS SECTION

AUG 3 1 1976

TELETYPE

AsSOC.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep-A.D.-Inv-

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext.

Affairs

Find

• Get li

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval -

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv...

Train &

Telep!

Dir.

FM CHICAGO (93-399) (P)

TO DIRECTOR (72-2382) ROUTINE

MIAMI (92-51 7) ROUTINE

BT

ROSKIL, 00J, 00: MIAMI.

RE MIAMI TELETYPE DATED AUGUST 27, 1976.

CHICAGO DIRECTOR IES REFLECT JOSEPH PUCCI RESIDES AT

846 SOUTH LAFLIN. PUÇCI INTERVIEWED AT 1539 WEST JACKSON,

CHICAGO, STATED HE DID

NOT KNOW JOHN ROSELL I, HAD NEVER MET

ANYONE OF THIS NAME AND KNEW NOTHING ABOUT HIS MURDER.

HE

RECOGNIZED THE NAMES ROSELL I AND SAM GIANCANA FROM 12 S

PUBLICITY THEY RECEIVED AND SAID HE HABEC

NOTHING TO DO WITH

EITHER. PUCCI CLAIMED HE WAS NEVER IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA

SEP 9 1976

OR NEW ORLEANS.

PUCCI STATED HE WORKS FOR HIS FATHER-IN-LAW IN THE

INSURANCE BUSINESS AND IS A "COLLECTOR" FOR THE ILLINOIS

GASOLINE DEALERS ASSOCIATION. HIS SPARE I IME IS SPENT

158

YU SEP 20 1976

DocId: 32316935 Paye 2

---

## Page 3

*Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act o1 1992 (14 USt 2107 Rote).

DATE: -11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

CG 93-399

EFTO

RODGERS AT 613 NORTH RACINE, CHICAGO, DISCLOSED NO SUCH

PERSON AT THIS BUILDING. CONTACT WAS MADE WITH JAMES COZZO,

SON OF RETIRED LON MEMBER WHO OWNS CONSIDERABLE PROPERTY IN

THES AREA. COZZO ACKNOWLEDGED KNOWING RODGERS BUT BELIEVED

RODGERS NOW IN FLORIDA. SUBSEQUENI IO CONTACT WITH COZZO

PHONE CALL RECEIVED FROM PHILIP AMATO OCCUPANT OF SECOND

FLOOR AT 613 NORTH RACINE. AMATO CLAIMED RODGERS HAS ROOM

HERE BUT SELDOM IN TOWN. AMATO CLAIMS HE OWNS THE BUILDING .

AND RODGERS PAYS RENT IN CASH ABOUT FIRST OF MONTH. ILLINOIS

TELEPHONE NUMBER 733-7304 IS AN ANSWERING SERVICE

REGISTERED TO RICHARD HOYT

AT 613 NORTH RACINE. THIS ADDRESS

ALSO USED BY THE NOW DEFUNCT WAGONMASTER BEVERAGE COMPANY

OWNED BY THE COZZO FAMILY.

CG 9561-CTE ADVISED TODAY HOODLUM BOSS GUS ALEX CHANGED

HIS MIND ABOUT RETURNING TO FLORIDA. ALEX STATED THE

ROSELLI MURDER HAS CAUSED "TOO MUCH HEAT" IN FLORIDA. HE

AGAIN STATED ROSELLI HAD IT COMING BUT IT WAS THE MIAMI AND

NEW YORK FAMILIES THAI DID IT.

EFFORTS CONTINUING TO LOCATE RODGERS.

BT

DocId: 32316935 Page 3

---

