# docid-32177789

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNA ADDADDUNA LIUIN DYDILIVI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10193-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 62-9-12-467

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, DI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/13/1964

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: JR, ASSOC, THE CAROUSEL, MEETINGS, GAMBLING, PROSTITUTION

• DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

10/22/1998

STATUS Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32177789

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releasefunder the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

F8:3 15574-291324

FBI

Date:

1/13/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIR TEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM:

SAC, DALIAS (94-55A-Sub)

SUBJECT A

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 11/18/63.

Due to the emergency situation which has existed

in the Dallas Office since 11/22/63, the Dallas weekly airtel in

captioned matter has not been submitted.

Agents assigned

Criminal Intelligence investigations in the Dallas Office

and resulting investigations in these matters and the submission

of the weekly airtel will be handled by Dallas as per Bureau

instructions.

RE: GIIF - DALLAS

(DL 94-47)

On 1/5/61 an article appeared in the Dallas Times

Herald written

by reporter GEORGE CARTER

the summer of 1963, an eastern

Alleging that in

"mobster" believed to be from

•New York or Chicago, landed at Dallas'at a private airport

3) - Bureau

1 • Dallas (137-1387)

1

- Dallas

(94-47)

DaLlas

1

• Dallas

(92-231)

(165-134)

Dallas

(157-319)

Dallas

(29-1274)

Dallas

(165-153)

Dallas

(137-1411)

Dallas

(162-95)

1

- Dallas (137-1110)

Dallas

(94-55A -SUB)

RMB : em

(14)

REC- 50

3:158

-911?

W5O M5014

DO JAN L5 1964

3

Approyedin

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

- M Рег

DocId: 32177789 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

Commander (which is procedure) setting forth information

concerning the alleged above meetings and stated he had

obtained the information from a confidential source.

MAY's original letter contained no information concerning

JACK RUBY, the apartment on Kidd Springs,

the use

• of a

private field South of Dallas, or a description of the

eastern "mobster".

Lit. REVILL

stated he had ascertained

this was added to the story when MAY recently gave the

information to reporter GEORGE CARTER..

Lt. REVILL further

stated that when the information was originally received

an intensive investigation was conducted by the Police

Department concerning the allegations and no foundation

was determined.

Lt. REVILL stated it was the consensus

of the Police Department that MAY's letter to the Chief

was a cover-up for having been seen by officers with STONE.

He further stated that MAY is considered a "mental case"

by the Police Department and is also dying from cancer.

It. REVILL stated there was absolutely no foundation

for MAY's allegations or CARTER's story.

RE: MELVIN RALPH/MARSHALL

et al

ITWI

(DL 165-134)

Puring the past week former Dallas bank employee,

BOB, ALTON TONES (DI 29-1274), and former Dallas area bettor

JOES HODGES

were indicted by a Federal Grand Jury in

Amar 1o, Texas, for violation of FRA..

'JONES and HODGES

had previously furnished information and statements concerning

wagering by HODGES with subjects MARSHALL and BAWCUM and

how

the payoff

and collections were handled through JONES

and JONES employment at the bank. HODGES had identified

several Dallas area bookmakers with whom he had bet. JONES

with whom he dic

„Siness for HODGE!

On 1/9/64, STEIN (also subject of DL 137-1411)

furnished information, verifying the statement of HODGES.

and JONES. MARSHALL and BAWCUM were also interviewed

separately on 1/9/64 and denied having any dealings with

JONES and HODGES and refused to answer any questions.

3

DocId: 32177789 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

Both however furnished limited amounts of their handwriting

to be used in comparison with a, money order believed sent

by the subjects or one of their associates to the Delaware

Sports Service, Wilmington, Delaware in January, 1963 for

payment of race result information.

From observation of

these specimens it would appear thatneither man had prepared

the Western Union money order application. Agents then

located specimens at a Dallas bank of the

handwriting of

This appeared to be possibly the

same as tht used

application and is being forwarded

to the FBI Laboratory for examination.

RE: UNKNOWN SUBJECT

BOMBING OF SPORTSMAN CLUB

DALLAs, 1/3/64

BOMBING MATTER

(DL 157-319)

The Bureau has been previously advised by separate

communication concerning captioned club which was owned and

operated by Dallas area hoodlum, JOHNNIE ROS,

(DL 92-231) •

PATRONO TENus

On 1/8/64, Captain WALTER FANNIN, Dallas Police

Department, advised that it had been established that

dynamite had been used in this bombing, that it was believed

the bombing took place from the inside and that PATRONO

was covered with $3,000 worth of insurance.

No other

pertinent information had been developed by the Dallas

Police Department.

On 1/7/64, DL-187-C-TE (DL 137-1387), advised

he had heard from gambling sources that PATRONO was deeply

in debt to several unidentified Dallas area Italians and

had been unable to make any payments on this debt. He was

allegedly told by these persons to either blow up the club

himself for the insurance and thereafter pay them off or

they would have it blown-up and collect their debts from

PETRONO after he received the insurance money.

On 1/10/64, DL-181-C-TE (DL 137-1110), advised he

had heard that PATRONO had had the club blown up for insurance

DocId: 32177789 Page 4

---

