# docid-32288774

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10200-10050

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1332

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE : 02/13/1964

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288774

Page 1

210

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3' (Rêv. 4-17-63)

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

0 CABLEGRAM

RADIO

* TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

1: 15

AM CST . DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

2-13-64

EH

130143

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

hac

CG 6498-PC ADVISED ON FEBRUARY 11 LAST THAT MEET WITH GIANCANA

SET FORTH IN MYTEL OF FEBRUARY 8 LAST HELD AT TOPPERS RESTAURANT

LOCATED ON WEST SIDE IN CHICAGO. INFORMANT ADVISED MEETING HELD IN

DAYLIGHT HOURS AND WAS SUPRISING IN NATURE TO INFORMANT IN THAT

GIANCANA MET WITH HIM AT BAR WHICH IS IN CLEAR VIEW OF ENTIRE

RESTAURANT. ALSO SUPRISING TO INFORMANT WAS UTILIZATION OF THIS

RESTAURANT WHICH IS SITUATED VERY CLOSELY TO WARD OF WHICH HE IS

COMMITTEEMAN, THEREFORE GIVING STRONG POSSIBILITY TO PERSONS

ACQUAINTED WITH INFORMANT BEING PRESENT IN THE LOUNGE AND OBSERVING

SUCH A MEET. U

INFORMANT ADVISED THAT GIANCANA MENTIONED TWO SITUATIONS WHICH

HE, GIANCANA, FELT FBI WAS AWARE OF, WHICH SITUATIONS HAD BEEN DIS-

CUSSED BETWEEN GIANCANA AND INFORMANT. THESE WERE, IN THE WORDS OF

THE INFORMANT, "THE CONGRESSIONAL SITUATION AND THE 36TH." THESE

UNDOUBTEDLY REFER TO THE SITUATION CONCERNING RECENT PUBLICITY AT-

TENDANT UPON RESIGNATION OF CONGRESSMAN ROLAND LIBONATI AND HIS

REPLACEMENT BY FRANK ANNUNZIO WHICH HAS BEEN REPORTED FULLY IN LOCAL

NEWSPAPERS. IT WAS POINTED OUT TO INFORMANT THAT THIS SITUATION HAD

NOT BEEN DISCUSSED WITH THE INFORMANT. U

REFERENCE TO THE "36TH" IS FELT TO BE A REFERENCE TO SITUATION

CONCERNING 36TH WARD AND COULD BE ONE OF TWO THINGS. THE FIRST OF

THESE COULD BE REFERENCE TO FACT THAT FBI

IS

AWARE OF ATTEMPTS

ALL INFORIAATICN CONTAINED

1332

; TONIS

REE 7

14 FEB 14: 1964

SPSR

FEB 1 9 1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288774 Page 2

---

