# docid-32311995

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

*Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10320-10312

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-409763-174

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

01/11/1966

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, PROSPECTUS

v9.1

DocId: 32311995

54

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4 use 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NC: 10

5010-106-03

I AT

962 EDITIONI

GSA'GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVE

MENT

SECRET

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI

ARD INPORAACION CONTAINIO

REGAS COODIDSTETED

DATE:

1/11/66

ASaNE SaOVA!

03621V1 SE

FRON

"Legat, Longialeified y

SUBJEOT:

MARK

JANE

Exempt fron

Late

declassification

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Lonfile 100-3247)

RICHARD LORD STARK

SM - C

4/202/977

CLASSIFIED BY SUD/GeL

SM - C

MAR 8

1977

00:

New York

Bufile 100-409763

(P)

00:

San Francisco

Bufile: 105-139012

Lonfile 100-3422

(P)

Remylet 12/10/65

ADVISED

8

390

There are enclosed five

copies of a memorandum.

containing information received from Detective Inspector

CHORLEY, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard, who in turn

received information from PETER JOSEPH. ROSENWALD _BUIIIe

105-63644)SThe information furnished by CHORLEY, who is

attaura,.

concerning the assassination of President Kennedy S

Danish Security nation 5 pet been, seeta on e

subject LANE's residence in Denmark.

the Bureau

will be further advised regarding this point.

These cases will be maintained in a

to be followed with sources of this office. (u

pending status

CIA

State,

¿c enil i

3

Bureau (Enc.

5)

Liaison

(Enc.

1) (sent direct)

London 100-3247

London

100-3422

REC. 82/80-19713-174

SOLEXEI

ACM : vW

JAN 1'7 1966

{(6)

перок

hy-routing alie

D

ENCLOSI

FEB

11

D

ULEP

10400

DooId: 32311995

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the

DATE; 11-14-20174

...

ination Rece

Is ColLection Aột of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

CONFIDENTIAL

There is also an indication that LANE's book will

be published as

series of articles in the "Daily Telegraph",

a London, England, newspaper. ()

According to I-1, while in Denmark LANE did not

come to security attention. ]e)

350-10315

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32311995

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Pote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITi STATES DEPARTMENT OF JETICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

January 11, 1966

sis.

DAOLED WARHOE SHOWN

OOHERMISS

SECRET

MARK LANE

RICHARD LORD STARK

T-1,

confidential source abroad, advised on

December 31

1965 that information had come to his at-

tention indicating eubject LANE and subject STARK planned

to produce a film (feature-length) entitled

"Rush to

Judgment" based on the book by LANE, which is a critique

of the Warren Commission findings regarding the murder of

President Kennedy! T-1 stated (the book "Rush to Judgment"

has been advertized in England and is expected to be pub-

lished in March, 1966, according to one publishing source

and will run to 125,000 words ST-l also furnished a copy

of a business prospectus for Current Affairs Documentary

Films Ltd., which is the company formed for the purpose of

making a motion picture on LANE's book. Copies of this

prospectus are also enclosed. 5>

I-1 further advised that [on December 12, 1965,

subject LANE left England for Toronto, Canada in company

SCHOENMAN Of the Bertrand Russell Peace Founda-

1203(ut that S-HOENAN returned to England on December 19,

T-1/had no immediate information regarding

the return of LANE.](5)

Anto contres

AKRAIN

classifica

APFSOPRIATE AGENCIE

AND FLASH OFETCES

ADVISED

JFK: 4/22/97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 S40/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (6)•

This document contains neither

recommendations

ner conclusions of

the FRI.

it is the property of

the FOr and is loanel to your agency;

it end it:

cocienis are not to be

Mont

Classitied, Ry

Exempt irom Go

sategor

Date Of Declassification

MAR 8

1977

SECRET

1/ge

963-174

ENCLOSURE /

756.

DoeId: 32311995

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Releaset under the John Fo Kenne

DATE: 11-14-2017

Shal

ept fon-Auti

08. 1992

to use

ote) .

want

nuridea

ROLAN

15 nd ng sy

nicer u

SECRET

Managing

Directors

Michara

Mati

ing h

Judanen ti

the book on

Arren Commission B

ding ther

01

Megident

J.r. Kennedy

Tinpat

Lee hiervey, Novald

a Lonerided Rond London

Do Chapel Sarcas, London Ser

•floard

Da rectona

senate

Aschard Storke

mondon S.Wo3.

warkynt

nn810036

S00m1

as dae toodse, London

Goet

Produtton

£20,000 Opproximately

1356

000)

ector

Comest

Sirentere

50S

eduction/

Viverstan

includine Producer

Nacureror FfIn

A reature Tenth file which vill consist of stocky gotage

exteting

as voy too tage

to be

Anillas washington and New ork

The live footers

Min consist

anter ter

theases: touche

assAssination

or President Kennet

in Dallan

as

intervieve With members and stago of the Warren

Commi as

Current

DOBe

tapes

and A5 012-181

never. before publiched an

any redin

Theoe Vard

or a highly con reers

and ochoacional patures

Te as chise grey

he United Stateasin aid-December to miles the

inventer

Projecued comple

Aronidet

for chel picture to Marche 066.

Ternatare of

the -Pilm vi

be didactic

and, argumentative in

snat

W111

comparenthe

Varren Commi anyon' e

oun evidence contained in its

publiched sweat

gol dale

01 Cos limony and exhibite Witn the warren

Commission 404

cone rus tons

tain ed

1 91

the one volume Warren Comnigsion

Report

The ala

Ster no conclusione and citi Indulge in no

apeculat on.

It will hovever,

the judacial Notd left by the murder

or osvald and the dubbequent

secret proceed logs of the warren Cormicaton.

The file vill constitute the only, trial afforded to Lee Hervey, Oswald Vich

Viewer serving aste coror.

The Principale

Fallen de Antonio toe producer directoryot political documentary, tila.

These include the feature film Pointrol Order, which hag

von four leptivel

Potator order rera docusentary baged on the Army McCarthy

bearings of 195, on chine hed consercial release throughont the vorld.

de Antonio has, recently coupleted mino for the a Bich on New York City

politico.

del Antonio Via a University /encher nt the College of the City,

01 New Yorky

Coluchie University, and College of Willian and Mary.

Torturod a ph lapophy and in secre

Producos of avast gendo encorto a deal editor and onchore

longchor enan

and

SECRET

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 6

Released.

quinter

thre

DATEY 11-14-2017

aspassina

ote)

SECRET

Mark

barki

blished

1 tr

patronaa

netence

Pensu 10

NAMYMONO

state

12120

Салон

Moverent

tecnal lv

mith e

Kennedy

Come usavan

581

ness

OT.e.

ture

mony

unknowi

pested

Ora elkon

Mi ter

Richard sticke

MOUD!

un vienna

1300

ti rector

mitg

studied

intari

Acquio tion olo tout prontazo und acri material

Lay ment

duplicate necavives

ChaA

and surtkingdo?

325, 500%

pAllinay

Molines

transpot cations

pocolmodations etc.

the purcharing and processing or

equipment don asein mat drew ot

Director.

Camerasin

$ 9,000

edit inglespondes (listine Room and equipment plue

editor rando sciacanteditor)

0$ 4,000

MIXo

opticaley

853,000

Adminin truty es pensea-

$ 2,500

6.00

Aquuzeition/ed exclusive intervieu material in Darlde

63-6,000

Trane port and duty

onstan.

X 20000

Salarter fornirector,

roduc er

Write marcanow being

negotta vedei che

the corporation

It

Ma undare tond chet

nn Y

antary exceed en anount ne sano per

week

A Solaries

wta termineve. upon del very. ornn

Yor

814,000

836,000

SEGRET

DO

---

