# docid-32325212

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90035-10109

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 122-2424-126

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DE

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/29/1959

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/26/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

RPT

DocId: 32325212

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"is it

DE 122-145

WW.

*

Original FD 302 Form dated September 28, 1959,

concerning interview by SA THOMAS W. KELTY with JOSEPH

BURGER at Detroit.

Original FD 302 Form dated January 7, 1959,

concerning interview by SA H. BRANCH WOOD with

Mrs. AGNES

MARSACK at Detroit.

Original FD 302 Form dated December 19, 1958,

concerning interview by SA H. BRANCH WOOD with STUART

KALLMAN at Detroit.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information copies of this report have been

forwarded to Jacksonville and Springfield for possible

assistance in conducting investigation requested in

Detroit airtel to Bureau dated December 24, 1959, which

was to locate MARIE FRALEY, whose last known address was

138 East Duval, Jacksonville, Florida, in March, 1958.

An information copy has been furnished to

Washington Field in accordance with prior Bureau instructions.

Two copies of all records of the Belcrest Hotel,

Detroit, Michigan, concerning WEINHEIMER's registration were

previously furnished to Pittsburgh as enclosures to Detroit

letter to Pittsburgh dated January 8, 1959. No copies were

retained at Detroit.

Likewise, two copies of United States Post Office,

Detroit, records concerning the delivery of registered

articles, numbers 611 and 612, to WEINHEIMER were submitted

to the Bureau as enclosures to report of SA THOMAS W. KELTY,

Detroit; dated September 29, 1959. No copies were retained

at Detroit.

INFORMANTS

On December 23, 1959, CSDE 295 advised SA JACK G.

WILSON that he had no record concerning MARIE FRALEY.

REVIEWED BY FEI/JFK TASK FORCE

_ B÷

Cover Page

ON 8/29/5P cal

RELEASE IN FULL

L

0

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32325212 Page 2

---

