# docid-32424901

## Page 1

Date: 08/28/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

202-10001-10170

FOIA SERIES

DOC 171

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017-

ORIGINATOR

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : POLICY QUESTIONS OPERATION MONGOOSE.

DATE

: 03/12/62

PAGES

: 24

SUBJECTS

: OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CIASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Reviewed by JCS, CIA, State, OSD.

EXEMPT PÉR E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) 50xS

MAR

2016

DẠTE EXEMPTED:

JS RE-REVIEW DATE:

OKAY TO TRELEASE AS ROSANTES LO/CIA CONCURRENCE

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

PENNES CONCURRENO OF A

DATE:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 54214 DocId: 32424901 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-TOP-SECRET

SENSITIVE

fumber of requents will increase as the operation

"Thare is a need for clearly defining the limits of arming

3. Use of U.S. military personnel and equipment. CIA has

requested Defense assistance in air and sea capabilities, including

the equipment.

ships) to lie off the coast in support of CIA me

time operations, with

U.S. Navy crewe of 200-300 depending upon the missions, 3 USAF

cargo aircraft with "sheep-dipped" USAF crews for air re-supply,

"amphibious aircraft with "sheep-dipped" USAF crews, and 2 sub

marines for black broadcast operations. (This is in addition to CH

requests for 6 PT type boats, 3 Helio aircraft, z 82-joot Coastan

Guard cutters, and arms, communications equipment, etc. )lA gada

where U.S. military personnel and equipment are involve a Planat

there is need for a policy determination which will permit operattan it

judgment to be used by designated operations officers, as well añ ä

need for rules of engagement.

Distribution:

Copy:

2

3

4

5

To:

General Taylor

The Attorney General

Secretary Rusk/Deputy Under Secretary Johnson +-.

Secretary McNamara/Deputy Secretary Gilpatric

General Lemnitzer (through General Craig)

Not NecCone (through MI. Helms/Mr. Harvey)

aifftof Operations

stive:

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

NH 54214 DocId: 32424901 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP SECREI

SENSITIVE

Logical titt the thumber of requests will increase as the operation

Prixe in a need for clearly defining the limits of arming

guerrillas (fox telf-defense, for training, for purposes short of

open actions in revolt), to permit operational judgment to be used

by designated operations officers, in Phase I.

3. Use of U.S. military personnel and equipment. CIA has

requested Defense assistance in air and sea capabilities, including

supplying equipment and supplying U.S. military crews to operate

the equipment. included in there requents a

where U.S. military personnel and equipment are involve

there is need for a policy determination which will permit operattonaly

judgment to be used by designated operations officers, as well añ à

need for rules of engagement.

Distribution:

Copy:

2

3

4

5

To:

General Taylor

The Attorney General

Secretary Rusk/Deputy Under Secretary Johnson

Secretary McNamara/Deputy Secretary Gilpatric

General Lemnitzer (through General Craig)

S Not SecCone (through Mr. Helms/Mr. Harvey)

Ciftof Operations

"'"

SENSITIVE

TOP SECRET

HH 54214

DocId: 32424901

Page

---

## Page 4

OP SECRET

- SENSITIVE

do rumber of requents will increase as the operation

"Thure in a need for clearly defining the lisits of arming

guerrillia (fox self-defense, for training, for purposes short o

open actions in revolt), to permit operational judgment to be used

by designated operations officers, in Phase I.

3. Use of U.S. military personnel and equipment. CIA has

requested Defense assistance in air and sea capabilities, including

supplying equipment and supplying U.S. military crews to operate

the equipment,

Included in these requents au

gin,

where U.S. military personnel and equipment are involved a Pasa t

there is need for a policy determination which will permit operatossts. -

judgment to be used by designated operations officers, as well ab à' F

need for rules of engagement.

Distribution:

Copy:

To:

General Taylor

The Attorney General

Secretary Rusk/Deputy Under Secretary Jobason +-.

Secretary McNamara/Deputy Secretary Gilpatric

General Lemnitzer (through General Craig)

Met HicCone (through MI. Helms/MI. Harvey)

@ifst os Operations

107 3n

SENSITIVE

IOR SECRET

HH

54214

DocId: 32424901

Page 4

---

