# docid-32290614

## Page 1

"Released miter the Join I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10390

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-218

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/31/1961

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

CM, ASSOC, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, RCK, NCK, PAXTON,

KENNETH GRAYSON, BRAMLETT, JOSEPH THERION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, 2 S/S

v9.1

DocId: 32290614

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

.

MC 92-17

CONFIDENTIAL

According to PETERSON, he believed BRAMLETT may

have been in the construction business in the past..

PETERSON

further related he had heard,

though he does not recall the

source, that PAXTON was believed to have had gambling

Interests at Las Vegas, Nevada, In the past.

on 7/7/61, PETERSON advised he believed MARCELLO

was dealing through

the Banco Agricola Mercantil (Agriculture

Mercantile Bank) during the time he was in Guatemala.

on 7/7/61, JORGE ESCOBAR FELIRIN, Assistant Head

¡ Security and Special Investigations, Banco de Guatemali

bank of Guatemala Police, was requested to attempt. t

ascertain i possible any information he could at the Banco

Agricola Mercantil as to whether MARCELIO had an account

at that bank, and if so, any pertinent information regarding

activity of this account. (C

On 6/19/61, PETERSON advised that Embassy files

contained the following physical description concerning

KENNETH GRAYSON PAXTON:

Name:

Birth data:

Height:

Weight:

Hair:

Complexion:

Residence:

KENNETH GRAYSON

PAXTON

Born 12/8/10

) at

Elk Creek, Virginia

61'3"

About 200 pounds

Black, combed straight back

Dark

12 Calle 9-11, Apartment 20, Third

Iloor, Lone , Guatemala City

PETERSON advised that Embassy files contained the

following

descriptive data regarding BRAMLETT:

Name:

Birth data:

Height:

Hair:

Eyes:

Parents:

JOSEPH THERION BRAMLETT, aka

Joseph I. Bramlett, John Bramlett

BOrn

8/29/23 at Roscoe, Texas

5812"

Brown

Blue

Father - JOSEPH HUGO BRAMLETT, Route 3,

Henderson, Texas

Mother • GERTRUDE WALLIS, born Roscoe,

Texas, residence not disted.

SCOOTE

- 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32290614 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

MC 92-17

Occupation:

Firmbing contractor

Residence:

Ila Calle 5-27, Zone 1, Guatemala City

Miscellaneous: BRAMLETT listed he was a World War

11, United States Army veteran,

having served in Europe;

also Embassy

files reflected that BRAMLETT had listed

as references in the past, SCHALER

COPELAND, Strand, Texas,

and HERL BEAIRD,

504 East

Hubbard, Mineral Wells, Texas

Past Residences: 1923 to 1943, Roscoe, Texas;

1946 to 1958, Lubbock, Texas;

February, 1959 to date, Guatemala

City.

The Indices of this office are negative regarding

KENNETH GRAYSON PAXTON.

Indices of this office reflect a reference to one

JOSEPH BRAMLETTE of Longvilem, Texas.

This Information 1s

contained in Legat, Paris, letter to

the Bureau dated 5/8/60

case entitled "MAURICE ANTHONY O'KELLY, aka., ITSP; PCEM"

Bufile 87-48158, a copy of which was furnished to Dallas and

Legat, Mexico, among other offices.

In this connection, Subject O"KELLY in a statement

to the French Central Police furnished information regarding

theft of Traveler's Checks from various individuals in

Mexico City and Paris, France.

In this statement he advised

on 8/26/59 he stole from the hotel room in Paris of Mr.

JOSEPH BRAMLETTE,

$100 in Traveler's Checks, some bank checks

e2pas as Fart arenat Band engrate

and an Ameriday

No further pertinent information is contained in

the files of this office to further identify BRAMLETT.

For the information of the Las Vegas and Dallas

Offices, referenced Bureau communication set forth that

information had been received from the United states Consul

In Guatemala that several months ago a United States citizen

named PAXTON, first name

possibly WILLIAM, appeared in

•3.

CONFIDENTIAL

902

DocId: 32290614 Page 3

---

## Page 4

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

1-14-2017

MC 92-17

COULEM CONFIDENTAL,

at Roscoe, Texas, 1923

1943 and at Lubbock, Texas, 1946 -

1958.

LAS VEGAS

At Las Vegas, Nevada

Will check the indices for any pertinent information

which would further identify KENNETH GRAYSON PAXTON, who

reportealy may have had gambling interests in Las Vegas in

the past.

2.

Will make Inquiry of appropriate sources for any

information regarding PAXTON which would be pertinent to

this matter.

MEXICO CITY

At Guatemala City, Guatemala

1.

Head

WIll recontact JORGE ESCOBAR FELIRIN, Assistant

of Security and Special Investigations, Bank of Guate-

mala Police, regarding an account which may have been

established for MARCELLO at the Bank Agricola Mercantil,

and if an account exists, determine any pertinent information

X1 this"

regarding activity of this account. (C)

Will make further attempts to determine through

sources any information regarding PAXTUN and BRAMLETT's

activities in Guatemala.

An extra copy of this communication is being for-

warded for the information of the New Orleans Office in view

of their current investigation in this matter.

ALDERIM

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32290614

Page 4

---

