# docid-32307377

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10080

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-88, 89

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, DL

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/05/1961

6

JFC, CIP, MEMBER, MAFIA, APALACHIN MEETING, B/F INT,

REL, ASSOC, SUR, EGYPTIAN LOUNGE, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

Docid: 32307377

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1902-61 USC 2107, Hote).

DATB6 (Adv. 11-12057

FBI

Date:

9/8/61

Transmit the fo owing in

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Bolmont.

Mr.

Mr. Collaban

Mr. Conrad

ITe, Malanch

Mea

J7ans

Mr. Hsione

Mr. Hosen.

Mr. Cul'ivan

Mr. Tavel._

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

8 Cards

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

FROM

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI: (92-2824)

: SAC, DALLAS (92-36)

JOSEPE FRANCIS CIVELIO, aka.

AR

Re Bureau letter to Dallas, 9/5/61.

Based on a file review, as instructed in relet,

the following observations and recommendations are set.

forth for the Bureau's consideration.

Information that

CIVELLO is "boss in Texas"

answering to a "commission" that controls organized crime

in Canada and the United States came from NY-3123-C*'on

1/23/61.

On 3/31/59, DL-105-C described CIVELLO as the top

• Italian criminal organization

sometimes referred to as the "mafia"

, in the Dallas area

(report SA MILTON L. NEWSOM, 6/23/59, Dallas). Informant

based this information on a statement that CIVELLO achieved

this rank during his more active years and primarily because

of a murder CIVELLO committed in 1928.

He stated CIVELLO

shot one JOE DeCARLO with a sawed-off

shotgun in a drug

store in Dallas. on 7/14/28.

CIVELLO was exonerated of the

murder charges after claiming the shooting was accidental.

Informant claimed the murder was ordered by the "organization"

after DeCARLO had attempted to hold out a considerable sum of

money accumulated through illegal activities.

Informant

was pressed for facts concerning the above and stated that

this information came from him indirectly and he has no

information concerning actual proof of the above but is

convinced that the information is correct.

DL-105-C, while stating that CIVELLO is the top

ranking member of this organization,

has continuely advised

that there is no organization, as

such, operating

in the

Dallas area.

He has stated clynto is'an "inactive" member

EX 10A

72-2824

- Bureau

2 - Dallas

COL/11

•(5)

20

Way SEP I2. 1961

Approved:

153

C. C. Wick

SEP 2 198y

i sent Congres

Special Agent in Charge

Place CE

my sarantis

103

M Per a

5675-9-12

DocId: 32307377

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

92-36

of the group that met at Apalachin but had reiterated that

CI/ELLO would be the number 1 man of any operation sponsored

by the group in Dallas.

In Dallas airtel to the Bureau,

2/26/58 entitled, Meeting of Hoodlums, Apalachin, New York,

11/14/57, AR, Dallas advised that this informant

stated

that CIVELLO had reported to those in attendance at the

meeting that Dallas has never had an organized syndicate

and will never have one.

He said CIVELLO pointed out that

there were small time gamblers and hoodlums who on individual

basis had operated in the past but who never had any national

CIVELLO reportedly told the group that the

Italians in

control.

the Dallas area were not strong enough to gain

Informant has continued to state that CIVELLO and

his associates are unable to organize any illegal activity

due to local, city and county administration in the Dallas

area.

On 7/28/61, DL- 105-C advised he could furnish no

further details concerning investments CIVELLO has made in

oil leases for himself and other Italians and had no

details concerning

the legal or illegal activities concerning

the "Italian group" from which CIVELLO allegedly derives

2% of the proceeds.

Informant said he gathered this informa-

tion over

a period of time from conversations with CIVELLO's

associates and by his observation of dealings made in the

past.

He said he could furnish no specific details as most

of the information was hearsay and his personal opinion.

In report of SA VINCENT I. DRAIN, 1/29/58 considerable

information was furnished by PCI HODGES DUBOISE HAMILTON

who at that time was secretary to HARRY DAVID KAHN, Oil Broker.

Information reflects CIVELLO began contacting KAHN in 1955

relative to investing money in wildcat oil drilling. Informant

said CIVELLO invested $19,000 in 1955 for interest in 8 oil

wells known as the Caddo Levee Production near Oil City, La.

Informant further advised CIVELLO invested $3937.50 in 1957

on the drilling of two new wells at the same location.

Informant also advised CIVELLO had 1/16 interest in the

?. E. Collins Lease in Caddo Parish, La. near Shreveport,

which was later either sold or given to

his brother CHARLES

EDWARD CIVELLO. CIVELLO reportedly had 1/6 working interest

in the Swinney

Lease, Caddo County, Okla. which is located

near Cement, Okla.

-2-

DocId: 32307377 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectión Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 92-36

PCI stated that in 1955 CIVELLO brought the following

individuals to the office of HARRY DAVID KAHN and told KAHN

he wanted to put up money for investment purposes for a wild-

cat well that was being drilled in Throckmorton, Texas.

Informant stated this hole was drilled and it was a dry hole

and all interested parties lost the money they had placed in

The interested investors were as follows:

BOSCO, Dallas; JOSEPH J COLLETTA

PHILIP

Dallas; JOSEPHYMOGAVERO,

195 Clinton St., New York CIty! PRANK, SAM.

PETE

ROCCO and

CARMINE

ELLAGRINO, White Plains, N.Y.; RUDOLDE

LAN REDONIA,

Mt. Verson,

The development of DI-105-C as a live informant

in covering CIVELLO's current and past activities has been

difficult in that informant has been closely connected with

CIVELLO and his associates all his life, he himself being

an Italian. He has furnished information concerning CIVELLO

Every effort has been made to

have him provide factual basis for his statements so that

information could be properly evaluated.

Dallas will continue to probe CIVELLO's activities

in regard to investments and financial dealings. Throughout

this investigation CIVELLO has not been actively engaged in

any criminal activity since the Apalachin Meeting and has

not been known to have any organization, directed by him

in Texas.

Investigation indicates CIVELLO is in a stand-

by position.

In regard to top hoodlum investigation concerning

associates of CIVELLO, the Dallas Office has investigated

his principal associates, JOE IANNI, DL 92-192; PETER

PELLEGRINO,

FRANK TORTORIELLO, DL

will be opened concerning any associate developed who

appears to meet the requirements for a top hoodlum investi

gation.

Continued efforts will be made to identify the

CHARLIE GORDON referred to by DL-105-C.

Every effort will be

made to be aware of the identities of tie-ins between

hoodlums in the Dallas area and other

sections of the

country as pointed out in relet.

The effectiveness of a highly confidential source

is

well recognized as

a means of obtaining coverage for

-3-

DocId: 32307377 Page 4

---

