# docid-32317782

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10354-10110

RECORD SERIES: LV

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-461-1-77

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LV

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

04/29/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32317782

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE

211-14-2017-

FD-36 (Rov: 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 4/29/63

Transmit the following in -

DUSIN TEXT

(Type in plain pert or code)

Via.

AIRTEL

AIR MAIZ

(Priority or Meshod of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECIOR, 93Z (92-3008)

SAC, LAS VEGAS (92-461)

MORRIS BARNEY DALITZ, aka

AR

00: Las Vegas

SUMIARY

The f01loning infornation was furnishod by

IV 69-C= on the dates indicated:

Informant advised on 4/3/63 that on this date,

JACK DONNELLEY, executive vice-resident of the Desert Inn

Hotel, was at the hotel where be not previously with JoaN

DREW, who is an executive of the Stardust Motel and an

alleged representative os SAMUEL GIANCANA, head of Chicago

element.

Incornation iron LV S9-C*, 1f utilized, should

be carefully paraphrased in order to jurther protect tho"

identity or this source.

3

- Buzeau (P.M. )

1

- Chicago (In2o.) (R.M.)

I- Los Angeles (Ir8o.)

(В.И. )

10-Las Vegas (1 + 92-462)

1- 92-461 SuD 1)

162-10 CHONGE

CORDON)

92-493 BUSY MOLODY

92-363 WILDUR CLARK)

92-671 JACK DONNECLALO

92-21 TORN DREW

92-377 ALLARD FOIN-

92-707 DESZED CNN HONCE)

92-703 STARDUSE

92-1411l-1=22

SFAR

-

RET: bar

(15)

Approved:

Sent

-M.

Per

SpeciallAgent in Charge,

DocT

---

## Page 3

Released unter the For F. Kerredy Assassination Records Collection Art of 1992 141-050

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hipte).

IV. 92-461

He has circulated the story that he was kidnaped

by the 2Bl in New York City and was taken by then to

Washingion, D. C. for questioning.

DATITZ and DONNELLEY

both are in agreement that BRINSMADE iS a "G D LiaI,

and that he has fabricated the whole story to cover up for

1E858

the $10,000.

DONNELLEY, DALIEZ, ard ALLARD ROEN, a Desert Inn

hotel executive; are all in agreement that it is now becoming

fashionable ru,

rock, down on people who are operating in the

garbline industr

They

Mascanasd merious biils which were

introduced fr

Neroin Kegislature.

They

considered soreral of these bills deczinental to industry

and feel shet they were defected only through eiforis of

C30803

DudE, Executive Secretary of ins Vegas resort hotel

associartor.

203N

made the observation that many people

in the

industry are becoming fed up with Governor ChaNt

SAWYER, Governor of Nevada.

They feel that he is favoring

DEL WESS,

whon they feel is operating without restrictions in

the stase of Nevada,

and is creating a monopoly.

ROEN describad

SAWYER aS a

"jerk and a SOB."

it is noted in regard to

Governor. SAW73X,

that ke checked into the Desert Inn Hotel

4/22/63 102 indefinite stay and according

to IY 10-C,

instructions were issued that his entire account was to be

compilmented.)

One of the bills introduced in the legislature provided

that after a hotel hac filed their return, if gaming authorities

did not agree that the return represented a true account of

their business operations, that

the Board could then arbitrarily

set a figure on which they had to pay taxes..

DONNELLEY Stated

this bill was written with the ides that money was being taken

out of the state without being properly accounted for and yithout

taxes being paid on this money.

Neither ROEN or DALIT?

commented on DONNELLEY's observation.

DALITZ stated he had been contacted on the previous

day by a nan woo indicated he could furnish DALiTZ information

which would save $200,000.

In exchange for this information,

this unnaned individual vanted only $10,000 in cash.

DALITZ

stated he talked to this individual for sometime and made an

appointmant to talk to him the folloving day. In the neantine,

- 3. -

DocId:32317782 Page 3

---

