# docid-32302117

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10280-10054

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-304390-144

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/07/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

OBA, ASSOC, INCARCERATED, CORU, ACA, BOMBING ACT, CUBAN EXILE

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/08/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932

DocId: 32302117

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PACT FOLD M 2-471.G

A TOULDEN WITH FRAME CALS

[N

THE

A DACT. XEL

(8)M

1S) [EME ARCONO CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISTO PAT ME INGNS

JOSE "PEPE" GOMEZ AS A PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE "CIA"

IN 196410

SPFPE WAS LATER INVOLVED IN FISHING AND TRAVLAD

TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC OFTEN.

THIS SONDCE BELIEVES

THAT PEPE LIVES IN MIAMI.

CLASSE

FAINIZE.

SEC

truth

(824)

ADMINISTOATIVE

THE FIRST CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE IS MM: 1337-S, THE SECOND

CONFIDENTIAL SONICE IS RAFAEL VILLAVERDE (USDA

THE, PUPFAN IS PEQUESTED TO DISSEMINATE AROVE INFOPMATION

TO LEGAI, CARACAS AND LEGAT, MEXICO CITY, AND TO. ALL INIERESTSD

AGENCIES.

MIAMI, AT MIAMI, FLORIDA, WILL ADVISE ALSA RO JEPOME

SANFORD AND WILL ATTEMPT TO FURTHER IDENIIFY JOSE PEPE COMPL.

WILL INTERVIEM PARLO FL CALLEGO SARDUY. M

RT

SEET

74 53932

DooId:32302117 Page 2

---

