# docid-32288281

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10057

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-107

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, PA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/03/1961

1

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

_ COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32288281

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

ODARE: 11/14-2017

on Aot of 1992 19J USE

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Paris 8; France

aut

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

February 3, 1961

Director, FBI (92-3182)

Legat, Paris

(92-4)

GUS ALEX

AR

Re Paris cable 1/20/61.

Mr. OSCAR WEBER, Chief of Detectives, Geneva,

Switzerland, advised on 1/25/61 that while the

subject was

staying at the Hotel Richemond, Geneva, he was in contact

with one EDMOND/COHEN, a French National, who resides at

FRANCE

Hotel Richemond frequently but the

Istanbul. Turkey. According to MY Gonev, CorN visits the

Police have no

prior information regarding him and know nothing of his Sur

activities.

has not come to their attention before

and

the significance of his contact with ALEX is unknown..

He stated that ALEX was also in touch with one

PAULABINER, who 1s a superintendent of a business building

in Geneva.

ALEX telephoned BINER and BINER came to the -

hotel to see ALFX. Mr. WEBER stated that BINER likewise

has not come to the attention of the Geneva Police previously

and the

significance of this contact is likewise unknown.

Swita

RUC

3 =

Bureau (1. Chicago 92-373)

- Paris

NWP: mas

(4)

Se% 92-3182-107

d 6 1961

DocId: 32288281

Page 2

---

