# docid-32316788

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10351-10095

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: HO

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/19/1976

3

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32316788

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hill

CLEAR

To:

FrOM

ROSKIL

FACSIMILE

SAC, Houston

Director, FBI

IMMEDIATE

8/19/76

~ FOF

1

- Mr. Fisher

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y _

Reference Bureau teletype to all SACs 8/18/76:

On 8/18/76 William S. Lynch, Chief, Organized Crime

and Racketeering Section, Criminal Division, U. S. Department

of Justice, furnished the attached memorandum dated 8/11/76.

Lynch advised that he received a telephone call from

John Craig on 8/11/76. He relayed this information to the

Dade County authorities the next day. Lynch advised that

on either 8/16-17/76, he received a second call from Craig

who stated he had not yet been contacted by anyone and had

information that he thought might be of value involving the

Roselli matter.

Houston Division should interview John Craig,

1101 South Post Oak Road, Suite 210, Houston, Texas, after

reviewing the attached material. Houston sutel results of

interview to Miami Division and Bureau.

Enclosure

( Miami (By Mail)

REC T9: 72-2382-16

rate: 29-95997

Rat

GEF: rat

(5)

CX-113

5 AUG 20 1976

c=0.

NOTE: On 8/18/76 Lynch, Chief, Organized Crime and

Racketeering Section, Criminal Division, U. S. Department

of Justice, furnished a copy of the attached memorandum

to SA George E. Fisher.

FEDERAN BIDEAD. OS, 4915

CORNHUN SECTION

AUG

•UNE

3493F

RBS-NO

MAN ROOM O1 19ZAYPE UNIT

DocId: 32316788 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaset undeg the Dohn

DATE:

11-14-2017

Kennet anssassi

nab ionRedond

OPTIONAL FORM NO.

JULY

1073 EDITION

GSA

FUMA (41 CFRI

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: File

191195

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

DATE: August 11, 1976

WSL: ajm

FROM:

William S. Lynch, Chief

Organized Crime and Racketeering Section

Criminal Division

SUBJECT:

John Roselli

This date I received a telephone call from a man.

who identified himself as John Craig and who gave his

address

as 1101 South Post Oak Road, Suite 210,

Houston, Texas

77056; telephone number 713-622-1791.

He identified himself as a licensed private investigator

in Houston and

a polygraph operator.

wished to give information that may bear on the recent

murder of John Roselli in Miami.

He advised that he

iwas

somehow involved as

private investigator (he states.

he investigates frauds) with a Paul Rossi, who he claims is

also known as Paul Calisi.

Rossi is a Houston resident

claims to be a jeweler; however, he also owns four or

five bars and restaurants

on Bourbon Street in New Orleans,

one of which is named. The Blue Clarinet.

Rossi is pending

charges in the Houston District Attorney's Office in an

attempt to kill a witness.

He is also pending on another

charge of second degree felony theft with four others

who are, according to Craig, connected to organized crime

figures in Providence, Rhode Island.

One of the others

is :(FNU) Ostigui.

He related that Paul Rossi is related

with an attorney named Helmut Erwing, as against whom the

State Bar Association has disbarment proceedings pending

The states that a Steve Peterson, of the General Counsel's

Office of the State Bar Association, is familiar with the

proceedings against Erwing). His number is 292-5409.

He claims that Erwing has some connection with the CIA

that evolved out of a Federal case that was instituted

against a man by the name of Phelbe in the early 1950's.

The story is that Phelbe worked for the State Department;

that while Erwing was a law student he was recruited by

the CIA, went to Germany to infiltrate the Phelbe family,

and that as

a result of the information Erwing obtained

charges were initiated against Phelbe and he was ousted

from the State Department.

5010-110

DocIa: 32316788. Page 3

Pon the Pegral! Savings Plan

12-2382-16

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 20-

Craig claims that Rossi, as a result of his troubles

with the law, became heavily indebted to the syndicate.

He indicated that Rossi in Houston works for Carlos

Marcello.

He claimed further that Rossi, heavily indebted

to the syndicate, went to Florida together with Erwing,

as to whom there is a long-standing relationship, and

had conferences in Florida during a period of time that

Roselli disappeared. He related that he has sources of

information close to Rossi and close to Rossi's family,

and that recently Rossi became drunk and bragged

that

he

had some connection with Roselli's murder.. Upon inquiry,

he said this occurred after the news stories of the find-

ing of Roselli's body..

He, Craig, did not talk directly

to the source of information who was there when Rossi

referred to the Roselli murder. He claimed that Paul

'Rossi's brother Robert was recently involved in a gambling

conspiracy case in New Orleans, the outcome of which is

unknown.

He-stated that he would be quite willing to

speak to an investigator and give him whatever information

he has

available.

Among other things, Craig said during the course

of our conversation that he had received death threats

which he attributed to Rossi.

He sounded rational throughout

conversation

and obviously his status and reputation

can

be checked.

DocId: 32316788

Page 4

---

