# docid-32288890

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10200-10166

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-3602-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

DOJ

YEAGLEY, J. WALTER

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/22/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

AHH, FOREIGN AGENT, ADMIN, ADVICE, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Release

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32288890

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

- Nasca

1-26-59.

Airtel

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Tolson

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

Holloman -

Gandy.

To:

SAC,

New York (97-1531) - Enclosure

Enclosure

Prom: Director, FBI (97-3602) - / 2

ALBERTO FERNANDEZ HECHAVARBIA, OIC.

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

ReBulet to the Internal Security Division

dated 1-19-59.

Enclosed for New York and Miami is one copy

each of & letter from the Internal Security Division

dated 1-22-59°

In view of the information contained

in the attached letter, New York will expedite submission

of a closing report and concuet no further investigation

This report should include all pertinent data received

from Mrs. Catherine Taaffe and date indicating that

Alberto Fernandez is identical with Roberto Fernandez,

concerning whom Mrs. Taaife spoke.

New York and Miami,

73 *

however, should remain alert for any information

the subject has returned to the U. S.

and is

engaging in activities on behalf of a foreign principal.

If such information is received,

the Bureau should be

promptly advised ao the information can be transmitted

to the Internal Security Division.

Lage en

since the he festoreportart should include all pertinent data

VHN mtb

(6)

NOTE.

The Department advised that the subject's

activities brought him within the Registration Act

provision, however, since he is no longer in the U. Soy

the Department is

taking no action concerning his

registration or prosecution.

The Department advised

no further investigation was being requested unless

information was received that the subject has returned

to the Us so ana is engaging in actruities in benali

0J

reign principal.:

MAILED 19

50/9

: 1959

JAN 26 1959

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE. UNIT

COMM-FBI

NH 54464 DooId: 32288890

Page 2

---

