# docid-32306080

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10210

HQ

92-6054-2202

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/06/1967

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, STOLEN FURS, ARREST, WADE, JAMES J., BURGLAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32306080

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reco

DATE: 11-14-2017

Coltertion

Note!

FEDERAL CORDAD OF MVES

C. E. D3246 TURNT GE

JESTY

COMRUFZGATION SECTION

TELETYPE

FRI WASH DO

Mr. Callelan

Mr. Conta

Mr. Fot

Mr. Cal

Sir. Fe

Mr.

fur. Tard

Mr.

Trotter

Tele.

Room

30s8

Miss Gandy-

FEI-BUFFALO

650PM URGENT 12/6/67 PJF

IT DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM BUFFALO (92-337)

Anti-nasheteoring

LA COSA NOSTRA BUFFALO DIVISION; AR

REMY TEL DECEMBER FIVE LAST.

AS BUREAU WAS ADVISED AUTHORIZED FEDERAL SEARCH WARRANT WAS

SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTED BY BUFFALO OFFICE AGENTS DECEMBER FIVE LAST AND

LARGE QUANTITY OF EXPENSIVE STOLEN FUPS RECOVERED • JAMES J. WADE

NOTORINUS BURGLAR ARRESTED FOR CRIMINALLY RECEIVING

STOLEN PROPERTY

VALUE OF RECOVERED FURS NOW ESTIMATED AT APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED FIV

THOUSAND DOLLARS, RECOVERY AND ARREST RECEIVED PAGE ONE HEADLINES AND

PUDT? I BUFFALO PAPERS AND VERE HIGULIGUIED ON TY AND RADIO BROADCASTS .

ALL ACCOUNTS FAPHAGIZED ISI LFADERSHIP I" RECOVERY AND COOPERATIVE

ASPECTS TH DELATION TO LOCAL POLICE AGENCII

RES 1892-6054-2202

' DECENDER SIX INSTANT SUDNEY GROSS DANER OF STOLEN FIGS AE S 19C7

DEDPESTNTATIVES OF HIS INCURANCE CARRIERS VIEWED FURS IN BUERALO OFFICE,

SPASS POSITIVELY IDENTIFIED RECOVERED FURS AS LOOT FROM HIS FUR STORE

AND ROTH GROSS AND INSURANCE COMDANY REPRESENTATIVE HIGHLY APPRECTATIVE

FIN PACE ONE

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

0D.EC 1 4 1967

(DOcId: 32306080 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE & I1-14-2017

PAGE TWO

OF FBI HANDLING OF CASE.

U.S. District Court

USDO JUDGE JOHN D. HENDERSON TELEPHONICALLY CONGRATULATED SAC

WELCH ON OBVIOUSLY FINE PIECE OF INVESTIGATION IN KEEPING WITH HIGH

BUREAU STANDARDS. COMMISSIONER OF BUFFALO PD FRANK FELICETTA CONGRATULATE

AGENTS AND BUFFALO OFFICE ON MANDLING OF CASE AND DESCRIBED RECOVERY AS

LARGEST OF THIS TYPE FOR BUFFALO PD IN TWENTY FIVE YEARS.

SKILLFUL INTERVIEW OF JAMES WADE RESULTED IN ADMISSIONS AND

La Cosa Nosti

IDENTIFICATION OF LON MEMBER JOHN C. SACCO , RUSSELL DE CICCO, GREGORY

LAST NAME UNKNOWIN

JAMES PARNESS, AND DAVEY

LNU AS

INDIVIDUALS WHO ARRANGED FOR FURS TO BE

HANDLED AT RAID LOCATION. DAVEY LNU POSSIBLY DAVID NARDOZZI. DE CICCO,

NARDOZZI AND PARNESS ARE SUBJECIS IN RECENT DUPONI ROBBERY MIAMI FLA.

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING TO EXPLOIT INFORMATION REGARDING THESE MEN

AND THEIR ASSOCIATION WITH LON MEMBERS IN BURGLARY OPERATIONS.

ON DECEMBER SIX INSTANT BUFFALO OFFICE TOP ECHELON INFORMANT BU

THREE ZERO FIVE -C-TE LEARNED FROM SACCO THAI SEIZURE OF FURS COST SACCO

IN EXCESS OF TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS CASH AND PRECIPITATED DIFFIQULTY

LA COSA NOSTRA

FOR SACCO WITH AS YET UNIDENTIFIED NY CITY

LEN MEMBERS. EXACI NATURE

OF DIFFICULTY PRESENTLY UNKNOWN BUT INFORMANT MAINTAINING CLOSE CONTACT

WITH SACCO TO DEVELOP FURTHER DETAILS.

VIGOROUS INVESTIGATION CONTINUING AND BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY

ADVISED: OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS.

END

BGM

P 23111-2

FBI

P

WASH DC

CC: MR. GALE

DocId: 32306080 Page 3

---

