# docid-32315227

## Page 1

/'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10340-10019

RECORD SERIES : MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-139-II-84

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/11/1964

5

ANGELO BRUNO (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315227

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev.

4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

13010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

JUNE

TO

: Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-2717

) DATE: February 11, 1984

FROM : SAC, Miami (92-139 Sub II)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title ANGELO BRUNO, aka

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Miani

Symbol Number MM 837-C9

Type of Surveillance:

(Dechnical or

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ANGELO BRUNO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Winter residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 12468 North Bayshore

Drive, North Miami, Florida

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Technical Plant - Miami Office

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial Authorization - 7/27/62

Initial Installation - 8/31/62

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None in Miami area

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions: NA

a. Is a trunk line utilized? '

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Is the surveillance on a. public coin-operated telephone?

Bureau

Miani

Searched

BaRks tered Mail

Indexed

samo ame

(2)

Serialized

Filed

92-139: Sit II-.84

DocId: 32315227 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

do Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones

actually

used". and location of each:

One 404B MATS in Florida room

8.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NA

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what üse was made of each Item involved: (Ada insert pages)

(See attached page)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None:

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

NO

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a.

Rental costs for plant premises: None, monitored at Miami

Central Technical Plant

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Five

=2 -

DocId: 32315227 Page 3

---

