# docid-32330629

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).-

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10060

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 182-475-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1974

2

GLENN EARNEST BURNETT

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

V9.1

DocId: 32330629

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

FR263 (Rev. 1-7-72)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

GLENN EARNEST BURNETT, aka

DATE

11/29/74

REPORT MADE EY

RONALD K. JANNINGS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/22-11/22/74

TYPED BY

jls

IGB

REFERENCE: Dallas report of SA RONALD K. JANNINGS, 9/26/74.

-P-

LEADS

HOUSTON

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS.

Maintain contact with HO 2112-C.

DALLAS

CONVIC

AT DALLAS/FORT WORTH AIRPORT, TEXAS. Discreetly contac

Southwest Airlines and ascertain if they have a stewardess employed

named SHERRY BORDER, white female, about 29 years old, blonde,

and slender. Obtain address and background..

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

*I NONE

JACQUIT-

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

[X]YES LINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DIYES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

(182-475)

- USA, Fort Worth

2

- Houston (92-648)

3 - Dallas (182-18)

SPECIAL AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

IN CHARGE

COPIED FOR ASCH6 2 - 475 - 14

2/23/28

Т. P6 Ахв

16 DEC 9

1974

REC-89

EX 105

CITU

DALS PROC

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

DEe13 Sinhalar

Notations

Agency

ДЗ ОСі OL ОПОСЕ

Request Redd

aCC, AAG, Criminal

LDI

Date Fwd.

Division' Organized Crime

How Fwd. Room

Roackete ine Section

By

DEGA 619/45

90 6 12/14/14

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330629 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 182-18

AT FORT WORTH, TEXAS. 1.

Contact J. T. CLEMONS,

1301 Monterrey Boulevard, telephone 283-0348.

2. Subpoena tolls on 283-0348.

3. Spot check 7821 Emerald Hills Way.

4. Subpoena tolls on 485-3417.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The Las Vegas Division's LV 427-C-TE and LV 232-C-TE

advised R. DX MATTHEWS is currently operating an unlicensed

bookmaking establishment at his residence, 1000 Dumont, Las Vegas,

Nevada. MATTHEWS has no other employment other than; the book-

making operation.

On 8/22/74, HO 2449-C advised that JERRY

MATTHIAS,

a couple of years ago, used to call informant whe

I he needed a

prostitute. He advised that he assumes that MATTHIAS, who

operates a go-go club, obtains his own girls through this

employment, and therefore, did not have to contact source for

prostitutes.

Informant advised that frequently the operators of

go-go clubs have made the girls who are working there prostitute

themselves, and will, thereafter, send them out to other locations.

Informant stated that about one year ago, he believes

that MATTHIAS had some kind of a deal in Euless, Texas, and

used to turn some girls out of his club to go there and work. : He

stated that although he has no definite information that MATTHIAS

is involved in prostitution, he does feel from some events that

have occurred in the past that he is so involved.

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330629 Page 3

---

