# docid-32301505

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10340

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-771

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/01/1964

21

LCN, MEMBERS, TRANSCRIPT, CONVERSATION,

COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 1

---

## Page 2

as amanue

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: OCT 1

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

1964

REGISTERED MAIL

TO :

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027)

LA COSA NOSTRA, aka

AR; CONSPIRACY

(00: New York)

Enclosed for the Bureau and wich office with "Commission"'

members is one copy of a verbatim trance

pipt of a conversation

between

ROCCO SCAFIDI and

capodecina, Philadelphia

Family, La Cosa Nostra, in

which |

identifies some of the members, etc

defines the "Commission",

The conversation mentions JOSEPH BONANNO but does not

touch on BONANNO's problems with the Commission.

T30

d

MNCLOCURE

<3 - Bureau (92-6054) (RM) (Enc. 1)

2

- New York (92-2300 (RM) (Enc.

1)

- Buffalo (92-377) (RM) (Enc. 1)

-

Pittsburgh. (92-599)(RM) (Enc. 1)

-

Newark (92-1203) (RM) (Enc. 1)

- Philadelphia

2 - 92-1027

1 - 137-4049 Sub B

48

92-6054-771

1 OCT 2 1964

JRP: ARM

(14)

OTHER 4

Approved:

OCT

* Wick'

F 2632 9:%

Secual Agent in Charge

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 2

Sent

_ M

Per -

---

## Page 3

-.....

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO:

SAC (137-4049 Sub B)

FROM:

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

SUBJECT:

PH 702-C*

OCT 1 1964

OTHER 4

On 9/24/64, the above source furnished the results

of a conversation between

Jend ROCCO SCAFIDI.

In the conversation SCAFIDI is identified as S and

as C.

It is apparent that EXTREME CAUTION BE USED IN

REPORTING THIS INFORMATION.

IT SHOULD BE REPORTED IN LHM,

PARAPHRASED.

AND WITH THE NAME OF ROCCO SCAFIDI

LETED WITHOU

EXCEPTION.

Bureau (92-6054)

- New York (92-2300)

- Buffalo (92-377)

- Pittsburgh (92-599)

1

- Newark (92-1203)

32 - Philadelphia

7 - 92-1027 (LA COSA NOSTRA)

2

- 92-616 (JOSEPH BONANNO)

1

-

52-444 (ANGELO BRUNO)

92-1141 (JOHN CAPPELLO)

- 92-976 (IGNAZIO DENARO)

- 92-524

(CARLO GAMBINO)

2

2

2

2

1

1

2

1

1

92-474

(JOSEPH IDA)

92-512

(THOMAS LUCHESE)

92-1346 (JOSEPH LANCIANA,

aka JACK WILLIAMS)

-

92-1079 (PASQUALE MASSI)

- 92-1067 (FRANK MONTE)

-

92-1068 (FRANK "CHICKIE" NARDUCCI)

92-564 (JOSEPH PROFACI)

- 92-445 (ANTONIO DOMINICK POLLINA)

- 92-1316 (ROCCO SCAFIDI)

92-1173 (SAM SCAFIDI; PHILADELPHIA)

92-1073 (PHILIP TESTA)

- 137-4049 Sub B

JRP: ARM

(37)

92-6054-971

ENCLOSURE

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 3

---

## Page 4

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

Information enclosed in parenthesis is explanation

of the meaning of the conversation as explained by source to

fully identify persons mentioned and to indicate portions

that are not audible or garbled.

On 9/24/64

C:

S:

•C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C::

S:

C:

S:

What?

About 1:30 we were over there, nothing happened

Did you go see ANGE?

•I went to see him last night, and I told him.

'Where did he go?

I don't know. And I told him.

So, for next week, he

better go see him and straighten out.

Yeah

to

(Good morning,

Stranger speaks

Yeah.

We were there

until 1:30 and the guy didn't

show up.

I ain't got no luck.

(Aside to unidentified

person, SCAFIDI says, "How you doing, buddy?" Customers

some and s

go during the conversation.

Conversation in

store, Ninth and Fitzwater Streets, Phila-

delphia).

What do you want, a quart or a gallon?

to customer in his store).

talking

Don't worry,

I'd have been here.. You know that.

I was worried.

I swear to God.

I even called him

yesterday.

I mean.

Stated--I

don't know. But what

I don't know don't hurt me.

Relax.

You know I would have been here and wet your

palm, buddy.

I'm not that way. (SCAFIDI

and FRANK

MONTE attempted to hold up a

I "Jewish Guy" on night

of 9/21-22/64.

They remained until 1:30a.m.g 9/22/64

waiting for the man to show.

The intended victim

cashes checks and carried large sums of money on his

-2-

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S::

C:

S:

person.

He didn't show at his usual place.

had been told by SCAFIDI if he had made good he would

ave si

Lven

some of the money.)

Regardless,

you know I'm not that hungary because

No, I wasn't thinking of that.

I went to see GNATZ (IGNAZIO DENARO, under boss La

Cosa Nostra, Philadelphia, ANGELO BRUNO, Boss, La

Cosa Nostra

(LCN), Philadelphia, and Commission

Member, departed for Miami night of 9/23/64, so IGNATZ

is in charge until BRUNO returns) yesterday. I said,

did FRANK come and see you?

He said not yet. He'll

be over.

It would have been nice.

I would have paid

TONY off.

But you see, he should have went and seen him, being

That's why I told you.

Did you

get in touch with him (MONTE) any time? (FRANK MONTE

should have reported his attempted holdup activity

to DENARO like SCAFIDI did).

No, I couldn't see him.

Maybe, because... was with you, you know, he'd figure,

what the (obscene) is he doing with you....

Well, I got him protected too.

Huh?

I got him protected too. I wanted GNATZ to think that

he didn't do it.

I want to wait until he talks to you.

I'm waiting to see him.

See why the guy didn't

show up. It's funny the guy didn't show up.

Oh, he wasn't with you, FRANK?

Yeah, we both. He was on the corner.

I was on the side.

The guy didn't show up.

There is something funny there.

He's there every Tuesday. All the people were waiting

for him at the luncheonette to cash

some checks.

NO

Luck. (Customer intervenes here about steaks)..

It would

all have been all right,L

... I went to

see my

brother (SAM SCAFIDI, also member LCN) yesterday, and

thought I was going to..i

-31=

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page

5

---

## Page 6

5

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONBHENT INPORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[] Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[1 Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[] Subsection IC (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[].

Subsection 2 (living person who provided..

confidential information)

Subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

Subsection 4 (cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

(] For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these

pages) :

92-6054-09-4-8

ser.

-77!

xxxxxxxxxxx

xxxxxxxxxx.

XXXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxxxx

xxxxxxxxxXx

x0000xxxX00X

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 6

---

## Page 7

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

Look, I mean, that's who I was going to go see. I

said that, you know.

But it didn't work out. Didn't pan out.

But, ah, beings that I, ah.

I called him and he said

he!11 (tell me?) the next time I call him.

Not that

I want him to think that I know, because the less I

know

the better off I am. You understand what I

mean? I'm not concerned

or anything-..--+-a case

of washing my hands. It just happened that you told

me, and it was

an (honest? garbled here).

ANG (ANGELO BRUNO).

He'll be out of town anyway...

You have to go see him now....see GNATZ.

• Who?

What do you have to go see GNATZ for: See ANG, it's

better, ain't it?

I don't know.. I don't want to be involved..

GNATZ

told you to go see him (MONTE). (DENARO told SCAFIDI

to have MONTE come see DENARO).

Yeah, well, if I catch him, I'll take him up there with

me.

It won't hurt anyway.

Right is right.

See

the Ass the want tanned hide re

the boss through channels.

lucky we got - boss like this. When the other guy

was boss.

You seen hir once in three years.

I seen him yesterday.

Who was that, JOE IDA?

Of, I mean MIG (ANTONIO POLLINA) .

(ANGELO BRUNO replaced POLLINA as

I saw him yesterday.

"boss" in LCN - JOE

IDA was "boss"

prior to POLLINA).

Yeah. I mean JOE IDA.

You used to see him once every

three years.

See, here he had to go--here, there.

He'd say he's busy now.

And then you'd never see him.

- 4-

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 7

---

## Page 8

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

Oh, this guy (ANSELO BRUNO) runs around.

He is always around, but if he was in Trenton, wher

the (obscene) would you see him too?

You can't beat him.

You can't beat him.

I even

told my brother, you ask

him.

He said, if I get

it, you'll get it.

I said, I ain't hungry.

As

long as I get enough for myself and pay my bills and

a few left over, I said,

oh, I wouldn't look at it that way

No, but ,l

you know me.

I'm not money hungry.

You helped me out. I don't forget.

• I was worried.

I just was worried.

Yeah, I don't blame you.

You know, I know youse were

supposed to.

I read the

paper the next day.

I didn't

see anything.

If only they (wouldn't have?) called the police.

Although you had told me that, see.

So, I called him.

Agents?

(Car passed, SCAFIDI asked if it was 'Agents.

says

sure).

Sure.

'Want to go up there and see him this week?

This week is Thursday already.

I shouldn't go on a

weekend. It should be like on a Monday or Wednesday.

Oh.

We will make it definitely Monday or something.

Let's get moving on this.

All right.

Make it Tuesday. I'll call him and tell him we're coming

Tuesday night.

•5 =

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

All right. (SCAFIDI works Philadelphia, New Jersey

Expressway, Philadelphia, as truck driver.

The

owner TONY CAPOLLA is close to

JOHN

is interested and so is SCAFIDI in going ahead with

previously talked of effort to steal a load of freight.

This way, let's get moving on it.

(?) Put this head and shoulders away at it.

(Interruption)

Now, let's say something happens, would they give him

What sould they do? You'd be in hot

water?

(If MONTE got caught on the attempted holdup,

what

would LCN do about it?)

You're (a member of LN) not supposed to do anything

unless you get permission first.

That I know.

Because this thing (LN) is worse than the (obscene)

army, you know that.

That I know.

If you get away with it and nobody knows, it's good.

Yeah, but.

Even...

SneakS.....self.

I've done it. I've done it. (SCAFIDI has done things

"sneak", without permission of LCN). ---

-Sneak----

But if you get caught you louse yourself up.

Who's them two guys?

HARRY, put this and shoulders

away.

Know them?

No.

OTHER 4

- 6

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

You louse yourself up.

And then, not

only that,

then they say (obscene) well, he

didn't tell nobody

if he was going to make a score, wind up with money..

he wasn't going to bring it up to me, who the (obscene.

(are you?) help yourself now.

Know what I mean?

Yeah.

As if.

(Unintelligible)

That's the difference.

In other words, when he gives you the OK... generally

, a job rule,

I guess the guy is in with them, you know

what I mean?

A little something for his trouble,

you know, he helps them out, I mean me, I ain't with

him.

He ain't with me. So, I don't know he's with.

(FRANK MONTE "ain't" in some regime in LCN with CAPPELLO.

He is under TESTA.)

He's with PHIL (PHILIP TESTA).

PHIL.

PHIL is away, so he has to go there. (Go to see

ANGE as TESTA is in jail). I don't know.

ANGE.

I don't know.

Has he appointed anybody for that reason?

I don't know.

doesn't know if anyone is

appointed to act

as Capodecina for TESTA while TESTA

is in jail).

I don't either..

He'll need one of his capi's.

That's it.

. I don't know if he's appointed someone

in

charge of it. He's got to go to ANGE.

That I don't

know.

I imagine he has to go to ANGE.

OTHER 4

-7.

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 10

---

## Page 11

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C :.

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

Who else would take it over?

Someone would take it over temporarily.

mean 1f

I went away, I'd leave a guy in charge.

as"a capo would appoint someone in charge of his

group if he went away.)

Oh yeah.

Here's PATSY (PASQUAL MASSI, aka Pat,

Patsy).

gOt JẠCK WILLIAM (JOSEPH LANCIANO) in charge.

Oh, JACK WILLIAMS takes PAT's place.

Garbled.

He's

How is he? I heard he had a heart attack.

Who PAT?

He's all right. I think he's over it now.

only he. (WILLIAMS). taking his eight away from him.

No, just acting (capo) them until he comes back.

Right?

That's all right.

In other words he's (TESTA) in the can. These kids

have to go to somebody?

Oh, yeah, are you kidding?

All right. This guy, I guess, he don't give a

(obscene)..1f they come to him. Oh well, there

really is only two, him (MONTE) and CHICKIE (FRANK

"Chickie" MARDUCCI).

The other guys are all old

men like I got. What the (obscene). trouble they

give you.

What do you have, old men too?

Pretty old....

That's good, JOHN, I'm glad.

:

- 8

-

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 11

---

## Page 12

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

Was your old man alive when you?

Yeah...

The source elaborated on the above.

PHILIP TESTA 1s in Jail. It was not known if he

appointed anyone to act as capodecina in his place while

TESTA is in jail.

CAPPELO is a capodecina but has only

old men under him who give him no trouble.

Other than

FRANK MONTE and FRANK NARDUCCI (made members of LCN 10/19/61

according

to PH 623-C-*).. TESTA has old men under him.

"away" he should have somone

to take reen any mole the elem see

to take over

a ave sone

PAT MASSI, who 1s in Italy has JACK WILLIAM,

JOSEPH LANCIANO acting as capo. JACK WILLIAMS is not permanently

taking over for MASSI.

MASSI has "eight" in his regime.

This would not mean there que min etcht in other regimes.

This 1dentifies PAT MASSI,

PHILIP TESTA

ANGELA BRUNO 1s identified as the

of the commission of LCN.

father was "alive"

when

was "made LON.

'S:

C:

S:

Capodecema

I'1l tell you the truth, I wish I wasn't.

Why?

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

Ah.

'Ain't that much headaches, 1s it?

I ain't got that much, but, ah, the headaches.

So, your responsible for them guys.

Pain in the (obscene). A wake comes and you got

to get in touch with.all of them, and bring--I

got all old men. I got to pick them up.

If I

- 9 -

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 12

---

## Page 13

[]

(]

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONKMENT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK HATERIALS)

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

(] Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

()

Subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

Subsection 4 (cooperating individual or foreign

government,

currently requiring

protection)

[1

Subsection 5 (security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

For your information:

(]

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

92-6054-771 0д 10-12

xxxxxxXXXXX

xxXxxxxXXOX

xXXXxxxXXX

x00X0xxx000x

xXXXXXx000XX

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 13

---

## Page 14

OTHER 4

PH 137-4049 Sub B

S:

C:

S:

: C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

was by myself, I'd go by myself. I run once a

week.

I'd go see my capi and then I'm done. I

never gave them a headache since I've been in

this thing.

No, that's true. Still you have a chance,

ror something......

Garbled....Capodecina (like before?'

I wouldn't...what he's got.

I wouldn't. No, I don't think I would. It's too

much responsibility.

• I would never want it. You don't know the (obscene)

trouble that is around now.

We had a meet the other

night. Man, I tell you, some of the stories that

you hear, phew. It makes your hair stand up. Makes

your hair really stand up. I wouldn't want 1t.

- tell you the (obscene) truth. If they would say

to me, here,

you can be under (boss) (Italian):

say I wouldn't take it?

•ootake it?

No, siree, I would never never.

I'll lay you any money (Iknow who would?) take 1t

after ANG. PHIL. I'll bet on 1t.

(SCAFIDI says

he thinks TESTA would take over if BRUNO was re-

placed for some reason.)

Well, maybe they like them responsibilities. I

don't.

I know, I wouldn't either. I mean, if I, was up

in good standing and all that.

No, them things is all right.

-10=

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 14

---

## Page 15

PH 137-4049 Sub B

S:

C:.

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

It's headaches, JOHN, you got to have money.

It's all right, if you got money. You're not

doing anything.

You got time to run here and there.

You take 11ke me.

with me, that's why with me 1t

seems so... I'm in the store. A guy comes..

I got

to go somewheres else. It's a pain in the (obscene).

It's a real pain in the (obscene). If I wasn't

doing nothing, then it's a pleasure.

I got to do.

Understand?

I don't say I'm sorry I'm the one,

out then, I mean to say, it's good enough for me.

I wouldn't want to be under (boss); maybe consuglieri

because you are not too involved with something.

• What would that mean, in case of trouble?

A consuglieri 1s like a lawyer. In case you got

a beer or a gripe.or I got a beef with you.

He

hears the story, and he tries to straighten 1t

out.

Understand? He's like a lawyer. In other

words, he's like a peacemaker.

Yeah, wait awhile.

I got a...VALACHI,. like you

know

when everybody gets together, all the big

bosses?

Udienza. (In English a hearing or meeting)

Udienza? Well, there is another name. He (VALACHI)

called it something else... la commissione.

Commission is nine bosses.

Nine bosses? From different states?

From different states, from different families, the

bosses of nine different families.

Now, if there

is a beef in the family like New York or Brooklyn

PROFACI.

Yeah.

-11-

NW 45839 DocId: 32301505 Page 15

---

## Page 16

PH 137-4049 Sub B

C:

S:

.C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

S:

C:

New York or what. (Auto drowns out) The Commission

gets together and tries to straighten it out; other-

wise, who the (obscene) kill them all each other.

So they get together and try to straighten it out.

You know,

gets together.

somebody intervenes, and then the commission

I didn't understand what the hell it was.

The commission makes the decision.

Oh, in other words they pick nine guys from different

states.

They've been on the commission for years and years.

• Like our family, our boss (ANGELO BRUNO) 1s a

representative on there.

He's one of them?

TOMMY LUCHESE (Thomas Luchese,

of them.

I always wondered what the hell it was. I mean,

I never.

JOE BANANAS is a new one * What's what. There's

about eight or nine.

They get together.

The

commission gets together and they decide what 1s

to be done, and that's

all.

What's, to be done. !!

S:

ANGE, some of us

friction, there 1s fights,

there. 1s

some guys disappear.

The commission hears about it, you know.. they give

you a hearing and try to iron

the thing out some-

where else.

Take a vote.

Oh.

End of Conversation

(*Another name mentioned but not audible.)

-12--

NW 45839

DocId: 32301505 Page 16

---

