# docid-32298127

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10403

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-114543-1ST NR 78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NK

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

02/14/1964

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

JURE, ACA, RCD, ASSOC, RES, TRA, TELCAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

Released under the John

• Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

based : NIT

54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

ITH 54164 DocId: 32298127

7

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)"

Transmit the following in -

Via

ALTEL

FBI

Date:

2/14/64

(Type in plain text or code)

LAGIST CUND

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Classified by 9188 Acs,

Declassity on:

6588599807

3/10/84

100

FROM:

ДійСтой, ГВІ

DECLASSIFIED EY 50 MAC ASK

oN 10-14-94 JFK)

SAC, NEWARK (105-15436) (P)

O Junta Revolcionapia, Cutan co

SUBJECT:

JOr (LNU)

IS - CUBA

NGUTRALITY MATTERS

CARBON COPY

Re Newark airtel to the Bureau with enclosures

dated 1/2/64, Newark

lotter to the Bureau with enclosures

dated 2/10/64, and report of SA ROBART JAMES DUVER at Wiand

dated

1/9/64 captioned,

"ANT I-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES, IS -

CUBA".

sclosed herewith are. 12, copies of a letterhead

nenorandun dated and captioned as above for dissenination.

A copy is also belig furnished for infornation io Sai Juan

because of their interst in the activities of JUrd.

A copy

of the letterhead menorandui is also being furnished locally

to Custons.

NK I-I IS JORGINA ABICE, 114 Clifton Place, Ja sey

City, New Jersey, (nurses residonce Jersey City Medical

Center) (by request).

NIS T-2 is CSNK 1741-S.

for the Information of Mlant, referenced Newark

cormunication dated 2/10/64 revealed the following:

NK 2381-C-TE (protect) who has furnished reliable

information

In the past, advisad on 1/27/64 that

JOE (LNU) waS

OSURE

1105-114543-

- Bureau (RM) (Enc.12)

NOT RECORDED

3

- Miand (Onc. 3) (RM)

46 FEB 19 1964

(1 ~ JURE)

(105-6661)

1 - San Juaa (105-6242) (JUNE) (Enco 1) (Info) Try

~ Newaris

FEST

105-14827) (JURE)

(1 0137-834)

PRAYE!

Sent

_M Per

Jah

(10)

Special Agent in Charge

128088

ORIGINAL FILED IN

1052

NW 54464 DooId: 32298127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 105-15436

recently contacted to deternine what his intentions were about

the purchase of arms. JUr renarked that "they" had nade

other arrangements.

On 2/3/64 LUCAS BURGES,

?SI, (protect) who has

furnished reliable infornation in the past, advised that DIEGO

ABICH of [lizabeth, New Jersey, 1s a refugee who works hard

for the overthrow of the CASTRO Begine.

ABICE has collected

noney for JURE although he is not a forual member of JURt or

an officer • N4)

DIEGO ADRALAL ABICII CIAVAN is bolieved Icentical with

JOE (LNU).

On 2/10/64 JURGINA ABICH! (designated NK I-l in enclosed

etterhead denorandum) telephonically contacted the Newarls

offico and advised that she is very concerned over the

activities of her brother DIIGO ABICH and wished to furnish

inforuation regarding his activities.

On 8/12/64 JURGINA ABICE: stated she is very concerned

over the activities of her brother because their parents reside

in Santiago de Cuba and are planning an imminent trip to Spain as

refugees and already have their tickets.

His actions she is

afraid, ill jeopardise their parents position in Cuba.

She also stated that she is concerned that DIEGO

might find out that she has furnished infornation concernig

his activities. Also her sister has recently called CISNEROS

about their parents! problens and her concern about DIGO'g

activities.

She also requested. that in any interview of members

Of JURE in illand that her brother's name not be mentioned as

he would eventually find out about it and would suspect that

she furnished the infcrmation or else JURE offictals would

suspect he was an informant.

Referenced Miami report reveals that in Decenber of

1963 RAY was interested in obtaining 500 to 1,000 pounds of

C-4 explosives and had funds available for the purchase.

From infornation available it appears probable that

JUre has plans for an itninent raid on Cuba and that ABICH

had attempted to secure arns and explosives for JURE although

he appears to have abandoned this attempt stating they had

made other arrangements.

2

NW 54464 DooId: 32298127 Page 3

---

