# docid-32392638

## Page 1

Date: 02/21/05.

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD. NUMBER : 104-10414-10054

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-27-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

'DATE

PAGES

C/ WH/1.

CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

MEMORANDUM FOR: PROJECT KDAFGHAN TERMINATION

08/25/1971

2

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

KDAFGHAN

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/07/04

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH07 : F133: 20040324-1064383

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10414-10054

HH 53320. DooId: DooId:32392638

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEBRIT

25 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Project KDAFGHAN Termination

1.

A request for termination action is contained in

paragraph four, herein.

2.

Project KDAFGHAN is a support project which provides

the Mexico City Station with fixed photographic and physical

surveillance of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in Mexico City.

The objectives of the project are to furnish photographic cov-

erage of the Cuban installation during daylight hours, to

assist the Station in compiling dossiers on officials of the

installation,

and to fulfill various requirements in support

of other Station Cuban operations.

The KDAFGHAN project en-

compasses two assets, KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2, who have been

associated with the project since 1962.

While this project may be of some value to the FBI

(FBI compares KDAFGHAN photographs with the photographs of

known leaders of extremist groups in the U.S. as well as with

photographs of persons who are subjects of identification

orders prepared

on badly wanted fugitives in the U.s.)

of little value, as presently constituted, to Mexico ci it is

Station.

are other means of obtaining photographs of

PCS and TDY Cuban personnel.

In early 1972 the Station mounted a thorough CI review

of all Cuban operations in an attempt to improve their overall

security.

Although KDAFGHAN-1 passed the SGSWIRL with no

apparent

deception, his Cuban exile status, the long period

of time he has been operating his OP site in close proximity

to the Cuban Embassy,

and the potential (perhaps immediate)

danger presented by his and KDAFGHAN-2's Cuban relatives made

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY 055272

WN - SI SM

SEORET

Internal Dist:

Tavis/kk/30 Min

HH-53320 DocId:32392638

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2 -

it clear that the agents should be terminated.

In view of the

aforementioned, as well as security considerations in the JMYAK

case,

WH/1 requests approval to terminate this project effec-

tive 31 July 1972.

In order to meet termination commitments,

project KDAFGHAN was amended on 30 June 1972 by DIRECTOR 285255

In the amount of $9,000, increasing the project's authorization

from $11,950 to $20,950

for FY 1972. KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-

were terminated on 1 August 1972. There were no security inci-

derts during the termination.

John C.

C/WH/1

Internal Dist:

SECRET

WH/1 1ạha bhus/Kk/30 tune

1H_53320

DocId:32392638

Page 3

---

