# docid-32295624

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10400

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-142614-21

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

43sassination Records

Collection Aet

of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1976

2

BBR, ALIAS, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32295624

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eFD:36 (Rei: 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO

PROM

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

12/13/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

: DIRECTOR, FBI

: SAC, CHICAGO (87-45500)

"SWAG SHOP"

ITSP - FENCE

TFIS - FENCE

TTP

.*- 5/200

00: CHICAGO

Re Chicago airtel dated 12/6/76.

On 12/6/76, the source was telephonically contacted by

Heights.

for source and the undercover Special Agent (UCSA). The three

met for lunch that date at a restaurant and KLEPAK advised he

had access to trailer loads of merchandise through high level

criminal contacts. KLEPAK departed the meeting with the under-

standing he would

maintain contact with the shop. Chicago in-

tends to invite him to the shop when technical coverage is com

plete and consensual monitoring authority is obtained.

Later that day the source was contacted by RICHARD

chance encounter on a Chicago street.

MC KINNEY called to offer

the source a stamp collection he had

stolen in the Columbus area

Source advised MC KINNEY he could buy all the stamps he needed.

at the United States Post Office. MC KINNEY became indignant and

advised he had burglarized a home where the victim as yet had not

noted the theft.

The stamps were valued at approximately

$100,000 and MC KINNEY

,V-33

De danted $4,000 for the 10t.

MC KINNEY

REC- 13 8

- Bureau (RM)

- Chicago

WAM/RIG

(4)

142-614

121

* DEG 21 1976

INV

Approved:

84 JAN 4 1977.

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

M

Per

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1969 0 - 346-090° (11)

NW 53025 DooId: 32295624 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 87-45500

advised he was traveling to Chicago and would give the

source

the stamps for perusal.

Source stated he would have his

business

partner, the USA, look at the stamps and establish

their value. The next meeting was scheduled for Monday,

12/13/76•

Consensual monitoring of the telephone conversations

with MC KINNEY was Obtained through SAC, Chicago authority

and with the consent of the Chicago Strike Force.

The San Antonio Division is establishing a criminal

background for the UCSA at Del Rio, Texas, through FBI National

Academy established liaison.

The El Paso

Division will also

establish a criminal background and has suggested an entry for

the UCSA into the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) Drug

Enforcement Agency computer. The UCSA will have a background in

minimal narcotics suspicion arrests and would normally have an

entry in the computer especially since he is a pilot. The

EPIC entry could be discreetly covered to identify anyone who

makes inquiry of the computer information.

All arrest finger-

print cards will be furnished to FBI. HQ when gathered at Chicago.

CHARLES THOMAS, aka

" a black male residing in

Chicago, otherwise as ver untantitted, has been In telephonio.

contact with the shop. THOMAS was referred to the shop by

KLEPAK, supra, who described him as a high level criminal with

many contacts

who was arrestêd this year by the FBI. However,

Chicago Indices reflect a CHARLES THOMAS was arrested with

several others while breaking railroad boxcar seals in late

1975.

The case was declined for minimal value by the United

States Attorney's Office, Chicago.

The UCSA and source are

screening THOMAS thoroughly to determine the extent of his

contacts.

THOMAS will not be invited to the shop until the

screening process is completed.

EILEEN EDNA "BUNNY

subject of Chicago File 137-5077, FBI Number 3 375 502. CURRY

was discreetly contacted by Special Agents

sf Chicago Involved

in the captioned operation, who have reinstituted her development.

Since 12/3/76, CURRY has furnished valuable criminal intelligence

information about the captioned operation as perceived "from the

street."

CURRY is totally unaware of the actual FBI interest in

the operation and future contacts will be carefully controlled.

CURRY is providing a list of names of attendees at her party.

On 12/9 and 10/76, an SA of the FBI Laboratory,

Technical Security Unit, installed closed circuit television

(CCTV) into the

trained

shop with the assistance of an SA of Chicago

in Technical Security. The CCTV was installed into a

_ 2 -

NW 53025 DooId: 32295624 Page 3

---

