# docid-32307212

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10352

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-6466-113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/16/1961

2

APR, EMP, LABOR, ASSOC, JHO, MOB, CRIM ACT, RACK

AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH 45927

DocId: 32307212 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

45927

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum.

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

OF SAC, NEW YORK (92-1880)

FD 211 60: DATE:

6/16/61

6-19.6' p

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN LABOR

ORCANIZATIONS. CRIMINAL

INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

AR

The following is furnished for the information of the

Bureau and Newark:

New York PCI

I former Public Relations OTHER 4

Director for ANTHONY/PROVENZANO, and presently employed by

JOHN O'FBURKE, President of Teamsters Joint Council 16, New York,

advised that ANTHONY CASTELLITTO, Secretary-Treasurer,

enemy of PROVENZANO.

PCI advised that CASTELLITTO was put into Local 560

by the "Charlie Yanowski pier mob"

..:He said that YANOWSKI was

murdered in New Jersey some time ago,

but CASTELLITTO was still

under obligation to YANOWSKI's associates, This informant

advised that PROVENZANO resented

CASTELLITTO because of his

connections with the "Jewish mob" and the hard feelings between

the two reached its peak during the last elections held in

Local 560.

Informant advised that CASTELLITTO waged his own

campaign and made no effort to insure PROVENZANO's election.

Informant speculated that CASTELLITTO may have been

liguidated by henchmen of PROVENZANO Or. YANOWSKI since

CASTELIITTO was the type of individual who would "double-cross

anybody"

For the information of the Bureau,

Infermant stated

that the riff between JOHN O'ROURKE and JAMES

HOFFA has widened

considerably and there appears to be little change of

reconciliation between the two.

Informant stated that at the

Bureau.

]

Newark (Info)

New York

(92-664)

New York

92-2004)

1

*. New

York

137-7348)

1-

New

York

92-1880)

REC 44

63:6466-

113

EX-113

WAV: pCs

(7)

6 JUN 261961

DocId: 32307212

Page 2

---

