# docid-32334315

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10021

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-3395-126

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/03/1965

2

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 53074

DooId: 32334315

Page

1

---

## Page 2

F

.?."

8/3/65

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, ILL (62-107362)

SUBJECT:

"MINUTSMEN"

INFORMATION CONCENNING

(INTERNAL, SECURITY)

ne Bureau sixtel, 1/28/65.

NO 1271-8 who has furnished reliablo InforatIOn 11

the past and who 1s furnishing informatIon with regard to the

"Minutonen" at Bogalusa, 1a., sctually attended the Initial

meeting of the untt of the 'Minutonen" at Bagalusa, La.

meeting was held on 1/12/65 at tho Disabled American Veterans

Hall which is located on the property of ARVIS PARNal who 1f

also a nonber of tue Oslylaal Knights of the ku Klux Rlan

(OKKIK) at Bogalusa. It was at this mooting tint YAHHEl atated

he was forming a "Manutonen" unit in Bogalusa.

WARNER Indicated

that this new ualt was associated vith a nationwido organization

of the sane sane, horeves, did not blve the location or the

national headquarters or the ldentity of the nationa, lender.

NO 1271-i reported that at the seeting of 1/19/65

of the "Minutenon" at Boçalusa, ARVIS VARNSA was the individual

who made the statement which was contained in New Orleans alitel

to Bureau, 1/22/65, relating to possible assaults upon Agent

personnel.

NO 1271-R has reported that thore are aight members

of this untt at Bogaluss, has turnished their identitles and

also identitied them

as members of the OKKKK.

NO JaT1-R has

reported that the officers of this unit are alvIs tabne?, paul.

COONE, and O*NEAL, JONES.

No iatiod has reported that the only

Now Orleans

siC .ch

(5)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/21/8 BY-SP&BTA/a

211,826

seagles yo

3304 .121

HH 53074 DocId:32334315 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 62-3395

Sue:ch

purpose of this unit appears to be the condueting of

harassment tactics and the aggravating of local Bogalusa

citizens such as BASCOM TALLEY, the former President of

the louisiana Bar aBsociation and owner of the local

neUspaper, LOU MAJORS, the editor of the Bogalusa news

paper, and RALPH BLUMBERG, the owner of a local Bogalusa

radio station. No 1271-R reported the reason for these

acts of harassnent is that all three individuals in the

past have been very open in their condemnation of the Xlan

and sintlar type organizations and that this harassuent

consists of placing dead animals at the residences of these

individuals, placing of roofing tacks in their driveways,

the New Orleans Office is of the opinion that

this "Minutemen" unlt in Bogalusa may not in any say be

connected with the national organization headed by BOBERT

Deputa of horborne, lissourd, and that walva, is nerely

using the name

"Minutemen."

wether this unit at Bogaluse is connected with the national

organization, NO 1271-R has advised that he has asked WARNER

for "Minutenen" literature so that the nembers could read

about the organization, and VAINth has stated that he does

not have ady Ilterature as this is one way that the FBI can

identify the members.

Further attenpts are boing made by

No 1271-R to determine If the unit at Bogalusa is in any

manner connected with the rational organization, and the

Bureau will be kept advised.

HH 53074

DocId: 32334315

Page 3

---

