# docid-32300641

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10274-10367

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-425

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 06/25/1975

PAGES: 19

SUBJECT: CC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 11/06/1998

STATUS

Redact

PAPER. TEXUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32300641 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reledsed

DATES

under the John E. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992

11-14-2017

note) .

COAMUMICAROUS SECHIOM

WUN950

TELETOR

SECRET

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Ten Try. W

Ident.

spection

ntelle

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone. Rm. -

Director Sec'y

NR.004 NY

/CODE

N0315

AM

IMMEDIATE

6/25/75 PJS

DIRECTOR, FBI

BET INCORNADTON CONTAINED

HEEDIN 1S UNCE:29 CTED EXCEEZ

*FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (105-146601) (P)

SECRET

ATTN: SAW. O. CREGARO

SENSTUDY, 1975; BUDED JUNE -24, 1975.

REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPE, JUNE 18, 1975.

51478, nice

CLASSIFIED BY: S668-S4nde

hEASON: 1.5 (C,d:

DECLAOSIFY ON: X_CiX6 1

(JFK)

Ao

GUS SURVEY NE

1) PHYSICAL LOCATIONS INVOLVED IN THIS SURVEY WERE NEW

YORK OFFICE OF FBI, 201 EASI S9TH STREET, NYC; MADISON SQUARE

POST OFFICE, 149 EAST 23RD STREET, NYC; CATHEDRAL SUB-STATION,

UNITED STATES POST OFFICE, 219 WEST 104TH STREET, NYC;

PLANETARIUM SUB-STATION, UNITED STATES POST OFFICE, 131 WEST

83RD STREET, NYC; AND ANSONIA POST OFFICE, 203 WEST 69TH

STREET, NYC.

(2) THE FOLLOWING SAS OF THE FBI PART REC 102 IS

SURVEYS GEORGE ALLE, ALLAN A ANDERSON, ROBERT BEATSON, ARIS

416375208

BELL, EDMUND J. BIRCH, JAMES BLAKEMORE, ROBERT. BRODERICK

FEE JUL 25 1975

ANTHONY JO BUICKO, MICHAEL L• COLEMAN, JOSEPH L. CROTTA,

HENRY CROWLEY, JAMES BO DAVIDSON, WILLIAM DAVIS, RICHARD E.

C-C

81 JUL 291975 ROUTE IN ENVELOPE.

tiles

DocId:32300641 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 456-2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

„DELANEY, ARTHUR DEVINE, JOHN dO DILLON, WALTER E. DISTLER,

i ROBERI FARRELL, ROBERT L. FIELDHOUSE, EDWARD J. FLANAGAN, JR.,

HARLAN C. FLINNER, JOHN A. GALWAY, GEORGE A. GARDNER, GERARD

L. GEARY, JOHN W. GERBLICK, ALFRED. W. GOFF, CARMELO GRAFFANGNINI,

WALTER B. GRANGER, JAMES GROGAN, NICHOLAS JO HAND, LARRY C. ,

HARRIS, ARTHUR HENDRIX, JAMES HERRICK, JOSEPH F. HENGEMUHLE,

JOSEPH E. HIGGINS, W. WADE HOMESLEY, RAYMOND E. HORGAN, JAMES

W. JOHNSON, JAMES PO KEHOE, PHILIP E. KUHLMAN, STANLEY

LAGANOWSKI, FRANCIS LANGDON, ROBERT L. LAUDWEIN, JOHN J. LAWLOR,

STANLEY LEWCZYK, DONALD F. LORD, HOWELL S.

LOWE, GEORGE LUKOSKIE,

DOUGLAS LUND, ROBERT A. MAFFEI, WILLIAM M. MAITINGLY, LAWRENCE

MC WILLIAMS, JOSEPH W. MENDES, HAROLD O. MERIZ, GEORGE B.

METZGER, AILLIAM DO MULKINS, ROBERT PO MURPHY, DAVID D. O'CONNOR,

CHARLES W. OLIVER, DOUGLAS. E. O'NEIL, JOSEPH J. PALGUTA, ROBERT

G. PARKER, GERARD A. PONDO, JOHN PROCTOR, GEORGE M.. QUINN,

JOHN JO REARDON, JAMES R. REED, JOHN F, RICKS, JUDSON L. RIGBY,

DEWEY SANTACROCE, THOMAS P. SELLECK, JR., ALFRED E. SMITH,

PETER J.

SOFIA, RICHARD STROMME, RUSSELL F. SULLIVAN, PAUL B.

DocId: 32300641 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USe 2102 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TOMPKINS, JOHN F. TUTTLE, JR., ARTHUR C. UNDERHILL, ROBERT S.

WARDEN, F. WILLIAM WHATLEY, CLARENCE E. WHITMORE, CARL F. YEAGER.

POSTAL EMPLOYEES WERE: SUPERINTENDENT GEORGE E. HIRSCH, CATHEDRAL

POST OFFICE; SUPERINTENDENI SAMUEL KARPER, ANSONIA STATION;

SUPERINTENDENT LOUIS GOLDBERG, PLANETARIUM POST OFFICE; FRANK

5

KLAUSMAN, ACTING SUPERINTENDENT, PLANETARIUM POST OFFICE; AND

JOSEPH CAMPLIGLIA, ACTING SUPERINTENDENT, PLANETARIUM POST OFFICE.

(3) TYPE OF MAIL INVOLVED WAS FIRST CLASS MAIL.

(4)

ÍTHE GUS SURVEY WAS INVESTIGATIVE TECHNIQUE WHICH WAS

BASED ON THE CONCLUSION REACHED FROM A STUDY OF COMMUNICATIONS

OBTAINED BY THE NEW YORK OFFICE OF THE FBI IN VARIOUS SOVIET

"ILLEGAL 3 CASES. THE PURPOSE OF THE SURVEY WAS TO LOCATE

CLANDESTINE COMMUNICATIONS BEING DIRECTED TO A SOVIET ILLEGAL•

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-SEVEN CASES WERE INITIATED THROUGH THIS

SURVEY. THE SURVEY BEGAN ON MARCH 14, 1961, TERMINATED MARCH 15,

1962, WAS REOPENED ON JANUARY 17, 1963, AND AGAIN TERMINATED

ON MARCH 21, 1963= ...

15) PERTINENT DÓCUMENTS INVOLVES I' THE GUS SURVEY ARE

AS FOLLOWS:

DocId: 32300641 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR

NY 105-146601

SECRET

NEW YORK MEMORANDUM, MARCH 14, 1961 CORIGIN);

BUREAU AIRTEL TO NEW YORK, AUGUST 17, 1961 (PROCEDURES) ;

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU, AUGUST 24, 1961 (CONDUCI);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, SEPTEMBER 11, 1961 (CONDUCT);

NEW YORK LETTER TO SAN FRANCISCON, OCTOBER 24, 1961

(PROCEDURES);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, DECEMBER 31, 1961 (CONDUCI);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, DECEMBER 26, 1961 (AUTHORIZATION);

NEW YORK MEMORANDUM, JANUARY 4, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 9,, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMORANDUM, MARCH 15, 1962 (CLOSED);

NEW YORK MEMORANDUM, JANUARY 11, 1963 (OPEN);

NEW YORK MEMORANDUM, MARCH 21, 1963 (CLOSED)

B.

(SUN SURVEY) (S)

TI PHYSICAL LOCATIONS 'INVOLVED IN, THIS SURVEY WERE NEW

YORK OFFICE OF THE FBI, 201 EAST 69TH STREET, NYC, AND GRAND

CENTRAL POST OFFICE, 44TH STREET AND LEXINGTON AVENUE, NYC.

(2) THE FOLLOWING SAS OF THE FBI PARTICIPATED IN THIS

SURVEY; THOMAS SO BARRY, GILBERT

BATES, Jo CARTER, BEESE,

DocId: 32300641 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FIVE

SECRET

NY 105-146601

ROBERT J. BURION, HERBERT D. CLOUGH, JR., MICHAEL L. COLEMAN,

JOSEPH JO DIFFLEY, WILLIAM D. DONOHUE, PHILIP FO DONEGAN,

ROBERT T. FIELDHOUSE, BERNARD J. FIIZGERALD, GEORGE A. GARDNER,

ROBERI E. GEGENHEIMER, CARMELO GRAFFAGNINI, WALTER C. GUTHEIL,

JR., WILLIAM W. HAMILTON, LARRY C. HARRIS, JOSEPH F. HENGEMUHLE,

JOSEPH E. HIGGINS, FRANK JO ILLIG, JRO, FRANCIS J. KEHOE, JAMES

PIM KEHOE, JOHN R. KENT, DONALD. F. LORD, HOWELL SO LOWE, DOUGLAS

MAC DOUGALL, ROBERI, A. MAFFEI, WILLIAM M. MATTINGLY, RICHARD F.

MC CARTHY, CARLYLE WO MILLER, RALPH FO MILLER, WILLIAM R.

MILLER, WILLIAM D. MULKINS, THOMAS F. PATTERSON, GEORGE M.

QUINN, RICHARD L. REED, JOHN F. RICKS, WALTER G. ROETTING,.

WILLIAM PO ROONEY, JOEL A. SHARP, ALFRED E. SMITH, JOSEPH F.

SPRINGER, ROBERT L. STALEY, CHARLES P. WINDER, F. WILLIAM

WHATLEY. POSTAL INSPECTOR IN CHARGE, ROBERT J. HICKEY;

POSTAL INSPECTOR, FRANK QUIGLEY; POSTAL CLERKS, JOHN MILLER

AND GERALD WILKINSON®

(3) MAIL INVOLVED WAS POSTCARDS AND FIRST CLASS LETTERS

ONLY.

DocId: 32300641 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (11 US€ 2102 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE SIX

TOP. SECRET

NY 105-146601

(4) (THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY WAS TO ATTEMPT TO IDENTIFY

CORRESPONDENCE COMING FROM ILLEGAL AGENTS IN THE UNITED STATES

TO KNOWN INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS OF THE USSR AND SATELLITE

COUNTRIES WHO WERE EMPLOYED AT(THE UNITED NATIONS, NYC. THIS (S]

SURVEY WAS INITIATED BASED ON THE BELIEF THAT FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

OFFICERS EMPLOYED AT (THE UNITED NATIONS WERE RECEIVING SUCH MAIL' AT (SJ

THEIR UNITED NATIONSJOFFICES. FROM JUNE 25, 1963, IO JUNE 26, (5J

1964, TWENTY-ONE INVESTIGATIONS WERE INITIATED FROM THIS SURVEY.

ON JANUARY 16, 1964, THE(SUN SURVEY WAS INCREASED TO INCLUDE ANY (S]

COMMUNICATION DIRECTED TO THE SUBJECT OF THE SNOOD"JCASE (5)

KBUFILE (65-676543) NYFILE (65-220772] AT HIS PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT:

Ls]

(5) THIS SURVEY WAS INITIATED ON MEMORANDUM OF SPECIAL

AGENT GEORGE M. QUINN IO ASAC JOSEPH L. SCHMIT, DATED DECEMBER

28, 1962. THE SURVEY WAS ARRANGED WITH UNITED STATES POSTAL

INSPECTOR

IN MEMORANDUM BY SPECIAL AGENT GEORGE M. QUINN TO

ASAC JOSEPH LO SCHMIT, DATED JUNE 21, 1963.

IT WAS INSTITUTED

ON JUNE 25, 1963, BY MEMORANDUM OF SPECIAL AGENT GEORGE M. QUINN

DocId: 32300641 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 US 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE SEVEN NY 105-146601

AP SECRET

DATED

JUNE 25, 1963. THE SURVEY WAS DISCONTINUED ON JULY 22S

1966, BY MEMO OF SPECIAL AGENT GEORGE M. QUINN, DATED JULY 25,

L9G6. MEMO TO SAC, NEW YORK, DATED MAY 27, 1965, AUTHORIZED

DESTRUCTION OF DISSEMINATED MEMORANDA PRIOR TO JUNE, 1964,

AND CONTINUED DESTRUCTION OF MEMORANDA ONE YEAR OLD.

SAM SURVEY

(12. THE LOCATIONS INVOLVED IN THIS SURVEY WERE THE NEW

YORK OFFICE OF THE FBI, 201 EAST G9TH STREET, NYC; AND UNITED

STATES POSTAL FACILITIES AT IDLEWILD (NOW JOHN F. KENNEDY

¡ INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT) •

(2) THE FOLLOWING SPECIAL AGENTS OF THE FBI WERE ASSIGNED

TO THIS SURVEY; HENRY F. AYERS, J. CARTER BEESE, ARNOLD E.

BRANDI, WILLIAM NO BREUEL, PHILLIP B. CARR, HERBERI D. CLOUGH,

JRO,. WILLIAM D. DONOHUE, BYRON HO DUNBAR, DANIEL A. FLYNN,

JAMES D. GIBSON, WALTER C. GUTHEIL, WILLIAM W. HAMILION, ALBERT

G. HIGGINS, FRANCIS J. KEHOE, JAMES P. KEHOE, ROBERT S. KENNEMUR,

PHILIP E. KUHLMAN, EDWARD LUKIEVICS, VICTOR A. LEMAITRE, DONALD

F. LORD, ROBERI A. MAFFEI, WILLIAM A. MATTINGLY, STEPHEN. A.

DECREA

DocId: 32300641 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the dohn F. Kennety Assassination Records Colleetion Aet of 1992-414 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote).

PAGE EIGHT

NY 105- 145601

SECRET.

MC GARR, JAMES L. MC CARTHY, JAMES E. H. MERWARTH, RALPH F.

MILLER, WILLIAM RO MILLER, GERALD dO MOFFITI, BRIAN P. MURPHY,

CHRISTOPHER J. PAPPIANOU, RICHARD L. REED, WALTER GO ROETTING,

DOUGLAS PO WHITE, RAYMOND P. WIRTH, DONALD.F. WISEMAN, CHARLES

P. WINDER, FRANCIS W. ZANGLE. THE FOLLOWING POSTAL EMPLOYEES

WERE CONSULTED AND HAD KNOWLEDGE OF THIS PROGRAM: J.W. ASKEW,

REGIONAL DIRECTOR, USPO, ATLANTA, GEORGIA; SUPERINTENDENI J. E.

BOBO, AIR MAIL POSI OFFICE, MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT;

ALBERT BRADY, EMPLOYEE; ROBERT K. CHRISTENBERRY, POSTMASTER,

NEW YORK; THEODORE DOLAN, POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, AMF, JFKIA;

H. A. DUNLAP, POSTMASTER, MIAMI POST OFFICE; G. J. GEITY,

ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO EMMET SULLIVAN, GENERAL SUPERVISOR

OF MAILS, DETROII; JAMES M. GRAHAM, DEPUTY, POSI OFFICE INSPECTOR

IN CHARGE, GPO, NYC; JOHN HANNON, POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, AIR

MAIL FACILITIES, JFKIA; A. JO HARKINS, POST OFFICE INSPECTOR

IN CHARGE, PHILADELPHIA; ROBERT E. HICKEY, POSTAL INSPECTOR,

GPO, NEW YORK; GERALD LO MANNION, GENERAL SUPERVISOR OF MAILS,

SAN FRANCISCO; DAVID MC CARTHY, ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANI, USPO

DocId: 32300641 Page 9

---

## Page 10

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USc 2101 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE NINE

TOP SECRET

NY 105-146601

MORGAN STATION, NYC; JAMES MC GALE, ACTING SUPERINTENDENT, USPO,

JFKIA; ROBERI MIDDEL, ADMINISTRAIIVE AID TO POST OFFICE INSPECTOR,

EARL W. WHEELER, DETROIT; HENRY MONTAGUE, CHIEF POSTAL INSPECTOR,

WASHINGTON, DO COS ROBERT E. MUNRO, POSTAL INSPECTOR, GPO, NEW

YORK; OTTO K. OLESEN, POSTMASTER, LOS ANGELES; FRANK QUIGLEY,

POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, NEW YORK; PATRICK F. QUINN, USPO, NEWARK,

NEW JERSEY; JO HO RAPLINGER, DEPUTY POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, GPO,

NYC; GERALD SEXTON, SUPERVISOR, AIRPORI MAIL FACILITIES, JFKIA;

JOSEPH SEYMORE, POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, BOSTON; F. M. SOMMERKAMP,

POST OFFICE INSPECTOR, PHILADELPHIA; ALBERT STEAD, SUPERVISOR,

AIR MAIL FACILITY, LOS ANGELES; LEWIS H. STODDARD, ASSISTANT

INSPECTOR IN CHARGE, LOS ANGELES; EARL WHEELER, POST OFFICE

INSPECTOR, DETROIT.

(3)

THE TYPE OF MAIL INVOLVED IN THIS SURVEY WAS AIR MAIL

DESTINED FOR CERTAIN EUROPEAN CITIES.

(4). THE PURPOSE OF THIS SURVEY WAS TO IDENTIFY ILLEGAL

SOVIET PERSONNEL IN THE UNITED STATES WHO CONTACTED THEIR SOVIET

SUPERIORS THROUGH MAIL DROPS AND ACCOMMODATION ADDRESSES IN

DocId: 32300641 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601

PAGE TEN

EUROPE. THIS SURVEY WAS INSTITUTED ON OCTOBER 1, 1959, AND

WAS DISCONTINUED ON JULY 22, 1966. APPROXIMATELY 1, 011 AIR

MAIL LETTERS WERE SCREENED DURING THIS SURVEY•

(5) PERTINENT DOCUMENTS. INVOLVED IN THE SAM SURVEY ARE

AS FOLLOWS:

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 6, 1959 (ORIGIN);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA J. I. O'BRIEN, JULY 9, 1960 (REINSTITUTED);

• NEW YORK MEMO OF SA JO I. O'BRIEN, FEBRUARY 16, 1960 (CONDUCT) ;

' NEW YORK MEMO OF SA JAMES P. KEHOE, MARCH I, 1960 (PROCEDURE>;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MAY 26, 1960 (CONDUCT);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JUNE 29, 1960 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA GEORGE M. QUINN, JULY 5, 1960 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA JOHN HO KURT, AUGUST 29, 1960 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 27, 1960 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF ASAC J. L. SCHMIT, NOVEMBER 7; 1960

(TERMINATION) ;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, DECEMBER 15, 1960 (ANALYSIS);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 3, 1960 (PROCEDURE)

DocId: 32300641 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107-Mote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601°

TOP SECRET

PAGE ELEVEN

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 17, 1960 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA GEORGE M. QUINN, JANUARY 25, 1961

(PROCEDURE) ;

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, MARCH 1, 1961 ( PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MARCH 21, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MARCH 24, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO BOSTON, MAY 31, 1961 (PROCEDURE):

MIAMI LETTER TO BUREAU, JUNE 19, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

PHILADELPHIA LETTER TO BUREAU, JUNE 29, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JULY 10, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JULY 31, 1961 (PROCEDURED;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, AUGUST 16, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO BOSTON, AUGUST 14, 1961 (PROCEDURE) :

BUREAU, AIRTEL TO NEW YORK, AUGUST 17, 1981 CANALYSIS);

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU, AUGUST 24, 1961 (ANALYSIS);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, AUGUST 28, 1961 (PROCEDURE>;

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, AUGUST 31, 1961 (CONDUCT);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, AUGUST 29, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

WEEKEN

DocId: 32300641 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released uner the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601

SECRET

PAGE TWELVE

NEW YORK AIRTEL TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 12, 1951 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORX, SEPTEMBER 18, 1961 (PROCEDURE) ;

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK,, SEPTEMBER 11, 1961 (AUTHORIZATION) ;

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, SEPTEMBER 19, 1951 (PROCEDURE);

LOS ANGELES LETTER TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 20, 1961 (PROCEDURE):

SAN FRANCISCO LETTER TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 26, 1961 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, OCTOBER 12, 1961 (CONDUCI);

LOS ANGELES LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 8, 1961 (TERMINATED) ;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 14, 1961 (TERMINATED);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, DECEMBER 12, 1961 CANALYSIS;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SUPERVISOR J. T: O'BRIEN, DECEMBER 5,

1961 (PROCEDURES;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 5, 1962 (RE-INSTITUTED);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, JANUARY 18, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

LOS ANGELES LETTER IO BUREAU, JANUARY 30, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO LOS ANGELES, FEBRUARY 13, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, MARCH 229 1952 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MARCH 22, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORX LETTER TO BUREAU, MARCH 13, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

DocId: 32300641 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY, Z105-146601

SECRET

PAGE THIRTEEN

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, APRIL 26, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JUNE 15, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

DETROIT LETTER TO BUREAU, JULY 24, 1962 (ANALYSIS).;.

BOSTON LETTER TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 5, 1962 (ANALYSIS>;

BUREAU LETTER TO LAS VEGAS, SEPTEMBER 26, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

DETROIT TELETYPE IO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 27, 1962 (TERMINATION);

LAS VEGAS LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 5, 1962 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO LAS VEGAS, NOVEMBER 23, 1962 (TERMINATION);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 14, 1963 (RE-INSTITUTED);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MARCH 7, 1963 (ANALYSIS);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MAY 7, 1963 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MAY 22, 1963 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, AUGUST 19, 1963 (PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 27, 1963 (TERMINATION) ;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA FRANCIS ZANGLE, NOVEMBER 19, 1963

(PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA BRIAN P. MURPHY, JANUARY 8, 1964

(PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JANUARY 29, 1964 (PROCEDURE);

SECRES

DocId: 32300641 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOURTEEN

TOP SECRET

NY 105-146601

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, JANUARY 23, 1964 (ANALYSIS);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, FEBRUARY 20, 1964 (ANALYSIS);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA BRIAN P. MURPHY, MAY 4, 1964 (PROCEDURE);

WASHINGTON FIELD LETTER TO BUREAU, MAY 19, 1964 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA FO W. ZANGLE, AUGUST 18, 1964 (ANALYSIS);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, OCTOBER 19, 19.64 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA B. P. MURPHY, NOVEMBER 13, 1964 ( PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, DECEMBER 29, 1964 (RE-INSTITUTED);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA dO SO MC COOL, JANUARY 7, 1965 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA RO J. TAGLIARENI, FEBRUARY 4, 1965

(PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORX MEMO OF SA W. J. GROVES, FEBRUARY 8, 1965 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA B. P. MURPHY, FEBRUARY 12, 1965

(PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA JO S. MC COOL, MARCH 13, 1965 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA BRIAN P. MURPHY, JUNE 10, 1965 (PROCEDURE);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, MAY 19, 1965

, ( PROCEDURE) ;

LEGAT, BONN LETTER TO BUREAU, JUNE 23, 1965 (PROCEDURE);

SECREM

DocId: 32300641 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601

SECRET

PAGE FIFTEEN

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, JULY 1, 1965 (PROCEDURE) ;.

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, OCTOBER 6, 1965 (AUTHORIZATION);

NEW

YORK MEMO OF SA JAMES DO GIBSON, DECEMBER 15, 1965

(PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA JOHN E. MULVIHILL, DECÉMBER 29, 1965

(ANALYSIS) ;

' NEW YORK LETTER IO BUREAU, JANUARY 10, 1966 ( PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, APRIL 4, 1966 (ANALYSIS);

BUREAU LETTER TO NEW YORK, APRIL 21, 1966 (AUTHORIZATION);

NEW YORK LETTER TO BUREAU, MAY 3, 1966 ( PROCEDURE):

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA J. E. MULVIHILL, JUNE

30, 1966 (PROCEDURE);

NEW YORK MEMO OF SUPERVISOR GEORGE M. QUINN, JULY 25, 1966

(PROCEDURE) ;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SUPERVISOR GEORGE M. QUINN, JULY 26, 1966

(TERMINATION) ;

NEW YORK MEMO OF SA FRANCIS W. ZANGLE, MARCH 6, 1969

(ANALYSIS).

DocId:32300641 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

. DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146501

PAGE SIXTEEN

TOP SECRET

D. Z COVERAGE

THIS PROGRAM WAS HANDLED ON A TOP LEVEL BASIS BETWEEN FORMER

ASAC JOSEPH L. SCHMIT AND POSTAL AUTHORITIES, NYC. NO CONTROL

FILE WAS MAINTAINED FOR THIS PROGRAM AND ITS ACTIVITIES WERE NOT

RECORDED. DOCUMENTATION WAS AN ANONYMOUS SOURCE. THE PROGRAM

IS BELIEVED TO HAVE COMMENCED

IN 1959 OR 1960 AND TERMINATED ÓN

JULY 22, 1966 BY NEW YORK MEMO OF SA GEORGE M. QUINN, DATED

JULY 26, 1966, CAPTIONED "SAM SURVEY: (SUN SURVEY ¿ COVERAGE" [5]'

(NEW YORK FILE 65 - 18045). THE PURPOSE OF THIS PROGRAM WAS

TO EXAMINE SUSPECTED MAIL DESTINED FOR THE SOVIET MISSION TO L

THE UNITED NATIONS (SMUND, NYC. ANY SUSPECTED LETTERS WERE

CARRIED TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE FOR EXAMINATION AND THEN RETURNED

TO THE LENOX HILL POST OFFICE FOR DELIVERY.

DocId: 32300641 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601

TOP SECRET

PAGE SEVEN TEEN

Z COVERAGE WAS ALSO INSTITUTED AGAINST THE CUBAN MISSION TO CA

THE UNITED NATIONS = IT COMMENCED ON AUGUSI I, 1962 AND

TERMINATED MAY, 1965. AT FIRST THIS COVERAGE INVOLVED THE

GRAND CENTRAL STATION, USPO, NYC, WHEN THE(CUBAN MISSION WAS

LOCATED AT 155 EAST 44TH STREET, NYC.) APPROXIMATELY JANUARY, 1963,

THE CUBAN MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS MOVED TO 6 EAST 67TH

* 3(4)

STREET, NYC, AND THE POSTAL FACILITY THEN INVOLVED WAS THE LENOX

HILL POST OFFICE, NYC. THE VOLUME OF MAIL WAS SMALL WITH

MAINLY FIRST CLASS MAIL BEING SCREENED. THE PURPOSE

OF THIS COVERAGE WAS TO IDENTIFY CUBAN) iNTELLIGENCE AGENTS (43. IC)

IN THE UNITED STATES AND (CUBAN JINTELLIGENCE OFFICERS HAVING DEFEC-LO

TION POTENTIAL. THIS COVERAGE WAS INITIATED BY NEW YORK MEMO

OF SA SAMES NO STEVENSON, DATED AUGUST 6, 0962. AS IN THE

Z COVERAGE OF THE

SMUM, NO DOCUMENTS ARE AVAILABLE TO DESCRIBE

THIS ACTIVITY®

E. MISCELLANEOUS COMMENTS

IN ALL OF THE ABOVE PROGRAMS, SUSPECTED MAIL WAS CARRIED TO

THE NEW YORX OFFICE BY SAS OF THE NEW YORK OFFICE. IT WAS THEN

SEC

DocId: 32300641 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 015-146601

PAGE EIGHTEEN

APP SECRET

"CHAMFERED" BY OTHER SAS OF THE NEW YORK OFFICE. THE IDENTITIES

OF THESE AGENTS WHO "CHAMFERED" ARE NOT RECORDED IN ANY FILES

RELATING TO SAM,

(SUN,

GUS:OR Z SURVEYS. AFTER THE "CHAMFERED" (SJ

MAIL WAS PHOTOGRAPHED, IT WAS RETURNED TO THE PROPER POSTAL

FACILITY. AS A RESULT OF THE ABOVE ACTIVITY, INDIVIDUAL CASE

FILES WERE OPENED ON THOSE SUSPECTED OR DIRECTED TO INDIVIDUAL

SUBJECT CASE FILES WHERE THEY ALREADY EXISTED. THIS DISSEMINA•

TION WAS USUALLY BY MEMORANDUM PREPARED BY NEW YORK OFFICE AGENTS

ADMINISTRATING THESE PROGRAMS.

IT IS SUGGESTED THAT IF THE NAMES OF ANY SAS ARE FURNISHED

TO THE SENATE COMMITTEE, THE BUREAU GIVE CONSIDERATION TO NOTIFYING

THESE AGENTS IN THE EVENT THEY

MAY BE

CALLED TO TESTIFY BEFORE

THE SENATE COMMITTEE.

IT IS NOTED THAT MANY BUREAU DOCUMENIS ARE LISTED HEREIN.

AT THE TIME THESE DOCUMENTS ORIGINATED, BUREAU CORRESPONDENCE

WAS NOT CLASSIFIED AS IT IS NOW. ALL THE DOCUMENTS REFERRED

TO CONCERNS A HIGHLY SOPHISTICATED TECHNIQUE AND WOULD BE

SIr:

EMM

c-c C

DocId: 32300641 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John T. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-146601

PAG E NINETEEN

Ape SECRET

CLASSIFIEZ PROBARLY "IN SECRET.

GLASSIFIED BY S80S, XEDS, CATEGORY 2 AND 3, INDEFINITE.

SECRET

DocId: 32300641

Page

20

---

