# docid-32304428

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10058

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-75147-13-72

Document Information

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection ict of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, DN

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/10/1953

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

EHB, VEP, CHARGES, FRAUD, CONSPR, SWINDLE, TRA, B/F

INT, REL, ALC, SURVEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

v9.1

HT 53025

2

DocId: 32304428

Page 1

---

## Page 2

California, and was in daily contact with SAM GARFIELD and

IRVING PASTERNAK of the Crude 011 Producing Corporation in

Denver.

Captain SANDERS stated that on 6/26/53 CLARK

left Denver en route to Chicago, Illinois, and Miami,

Florida.

on 7/16/53 DN-119-0 reported that CLARK had

returned to Denver from Miami and as of that time was

registered at the Mayflower Hotel in Denver, Colorado.

This Informant stated that he had been in conversation

with CLARK, who talked volubly of his oil drilling opera-

tions in the vicinity of Newcastle, Wyoming, but made no

statement reflecting that he was in Denver for the purpose

of engaging in any type of 1llegal activities.

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA, waS.

FBI #2157349

PEREIRA and BRADING have been described in

previous

reports as confidencemen who specialize in defraud-

ing wealthy women out of large suns of money.

It has been

previously reported that BRADING and PEREIRA in January, 1952,

received sentences of twelve years In U. S. District Court at

El Paso, Texas, on charges of mail fraud, conspiracy and ITSP.

in connection with the swindle of Mrs. GERTRUDE J. JOYCE Of

Roswell, New Mexico, out of approximately $48,000.

This sentence has been uphold by the Fifth Circuit

Court of Appeals, New Orleans, Louisiana, and BRADING and

PEREIRA are presently at liberty under bond awaiting appeal

of this case to the U. S. Supreme Court.

During the period of this survey, PEREIRA and

BRADING have made sevèral trips to the Denver area in

connection with the operation of an oil firm known as the

Richland 011 Company, 1950 California Street, Denver, Colorado.

As has previously been reported, PEREIRA is now married to

the former Mrs. LEE LITTLE, the widow of the President of

the Magnolia Oil Company,

Dallas,, Texas. Mrs. LITTLE has been

reported by the Dallas Office and by DN-119-0 and DN-123-0

to be worth several million dollars.

These Informants have

34

NW 53025 DooId:32304428 Page 2

---

## Page 3

also reported that BRADING is a frequent companion of Mrs.

LITTLE's sister, Mrs. FRANKIE HARWELL, of Dallas, Texas.

Information has been received from the Miami

Office reflecting that PEREIRA, his wife, BRADING, and Mrs.

HARWELL spent the 1953 Winter season in a leased residence

on Sunset Island off Miami Beach, Florida.

reported that PEREIRA and BRADING gave up

6/1/53. Since that time PEREIRA has spent several weeks

In the

Denver area, during which period he closely associated

with ARTHUR LEWIS CLARK, according to information received

from DN-119-0 and DN-123-0.

Information was received from the Los Angeles

office in July, 1953, that PEREIRA and his wife have leased

a residence in

Beverly Hills, California,

and are presently

residing there. It was further reported that Mrs. FRANKIE

HARWELL also has an apartment in Beverly Hills, California,

but that BRADING has not been observed in Beverly Hills.

As of June, 1953, BRADING was reported by DN-119-0

to have undergone an operation in Baltimore, Maryland, after

which he expected to spend some time in New York City.

JOSEPH GERROLD GALANTIERE, Wa.

Jerrydalantiere

Denver_ PD #22567_ -

GALANTIERE, mentioned in previous reports, continues

to operate Jerry!'s News-stand, 1657 Welton Street, Denver.

During the period of this survey, information has

been received from DN-110-0 reflecting that GALANTIERE continues

to make book on sporting events at Jerry's News-stand on a

"sneak basis.

Informant stated that GALANTIERE. Is a close

associate of TINO J. SOTO and that SOTO is working closely

with GALANIERE in bookmaking activities.

This. Informant

has reported that he has no information reflecting that

- GALANTIERE and SOTO are laying off bets with any out-of-town

bookmakers, but that in June, 1953, it was rumored in gambling

circles that GALANTIERE might be laying off a few bets with

the SMALDONES.

Captain WILLIAM F. SANDERS, Denver Police Depart-

stated that Officers assigned to the Intelligence Bureau

of that Department are keeping GALANTIERE under close observa-

tion and efforts are being made to secure evidence to support

bookmaking charges against him.

35

NW 53025 DooId:32304428 Page 3

---

