# docid-32105718

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

Released under the John F.

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

KISS/SCOW

178-10004-10300

RECORD SERIES:

SCOWCROFT MEMCONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : JUNE 26, 1975

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

WH

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/26/1975

3

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

CHURCH COMMITTEE

COLBY, WILLIAM E.

FORD, GERALD R.

KISSINGER, HENRY A.

SCOWCROFT, BRENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

IC

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Memorandum of conversation, participants: Ford, Kissinger, Scowcroft

w9.l

NW 54214

DocId: 32105718

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

...

MEMORANDUM

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

SECRET/NODIS/XEDS

178-10004-10300

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

PARTICIPANTS:

DATE AND TIME:

PLACE:

The President

DI. Henry A. Kissinger, Secretary of State and

Assistant to the President for National Security-

Affairs

Lt. General Brent Scowcroft, Deputy Assistant

to the President for National Security Affairs

Thursday, June 26, 1975

The Oval Office

The White House

President: The only problem with my press conference was Mel Laird.

Kissinger: That raises a problem. We have absolutely no discipline in

the government. Lynn says he has the same problem in the domestic area.

Schlesinger is now on a SALT violation kick again. Now he is talking about

massive Soviet missile deployments. We started MIRV deployments five

years ago. Mel's article [in Reader's Digest] was mischievous. He says

President: It isn't their fault. We are hamstrung.

Kissinger: We are building up problems for a SALT agreement. They

are unyielding on cruise missile and Backfire.

President: Is Defense now saying not to count cruise missiles?

Kissinger: Up to 3000 kilometers, yes. That would be a farce -- it would

just shift the strategic competition from ballistic to cruise missiles. We

have offered a ban on ship-launched cruise missiles and not air-launched

ones.

SEGRET /NODIS/KADS

Photocopy

trom

Gerald R. Ford Library

NH 54214 DocId:32105718 Page 2

CLASSIFIED BY HENRY A. KISSINGER

• EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652

EXEMPTIOY CATEGORY _

5 (b) (1,3)

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON

Imp.

to det.

---

## Page 3

SUCRET INOD IS/XEDE

Here is what we have shipped to Israel since April.

[He hands the President a list, which he reads.]

President: If they are going to be intransigent, we are going to have to

go public.

We have no choice.

Kissinger: Max Fisher came in and said they are trying to yield and just

trying to find a way. We can't wait. They have already screwed it up

doing it before CSCE, which we wanted,

in order, to do it while the Soviets'

heads were down.

Here is the letter -- we have revised it just a little.

[The President reads the letter.]

President: Can Rabin say that he did respond to my telephone call?

Kissinger: We can take that out. He didn't change, but that looks

petulant.

President; We could say "We have had no change in your position."

Kissinger: We don't need to do that. It is a dig and would lead to a

peripheral argument.

President: The rest looks fine.

_Kissinger:

Shall we get Dinitz in there?

President:

Sure.

Kissinger: Shall we have Javits in for five minutes?

President: How about Ribicoff?

Kissinger: If you want to lay it out for him.

President: How about that letter on Soviet MEN?

[The President reads the draft letter.]

Let's get it up there today.

SECRET /NODIS/GOS

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 54214 DocId:32105718 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NORIS/ XGDS

3.

Kissinger: Volpe wants to begin discussions with the Communists in Italy.

President: I don't understand that.

Kissinger: It is a case of localities: It will be hard not to include the

Communists in the government, but we don't want to play.

President: I agree.

Kissinger: Your meeting on the Turkish embargo this morning -- your

talker has an option to put in a Greek aid sweetener.

He rests or President the Bradomas intercept with the Greek

Ambassador.]

President: With this group, should I tell them what I propose and urge

them to proceed and ask them what they think?

Kissinger: The waiver is something you are willing to do for them; it is

not for us.

We are having another Church problem. They are now asking for

everything related to the six assassination areas -- it is all the NSC

processes.

President: We are not going to do it. Who is the problem? Hills?

Kissinger: No, Hills is fine. Colby is the insoluble problem.

I was at a dinner with Strauss. He said you would win in '76.

Scowcroft: McGovern told me the same thing.

Kissinger: It was not a bouyant Democratic group last night. On Church,

the major thing to say is that he is going at a difficult period, that the old

idea that they are part of our decision making structure is past:

He

shouldn't blow it up.

-SECRET

NODIST XEDS

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

NW 54214 DocId:32105718 Page 4

---

