# docid-32322722

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10380-10013

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-126039-50

Released under the John

488a381nation Recorde

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NU 54027 Date:

08-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/15/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CARLOS ZARRAGA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32322722

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3 (Rev. 12-14-64)

DECODED COPY

JAIRGRAM

• I CABLEGRAM

RADIO

*X TELETYPE

PAGE 4, FROM MIAMI 160140

to saste

LUIS MORENO, GENERAL COORDINATOR, 30TH OF NOVEMBER

REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT, DISCLAIMED PERTINENT KNOWLEDGE,

BUT CLAIMED BOATS DID NOT!

LEAVE FROM UNITED STATES. STATED

THAT JESUS FERNANDEZ HERNANDEZ, WHO RESIDES SAN JUAN, PR,

IS MILITARY COORDINATOR OF 30TH NOVEMBER AND WOULD KNOW

FACTS.

SANTIAGO ALVAREZ STATED HE HAS NOT SEEN CUESTA IN

MORE THAN A MONTH AND SUPPOSES HIM-TO BE INSAN JUAN.

CARLOSYZARRAGARWARTINEZ, KEY-SOURCE-CUBA, PROTECT,

REPORTED HE HAD LEARNED FROM A RELATIVE OF MAS, THAT RECE

HAD RECENTLY GIVEN A SUM OF MONEY TO CUESTA AND FONT

FOR AN ACTION AGAINST CUBA.

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr -

DeLoach .

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt _

Gale _

Rosen -

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room -

Holmes

Gandy -

U.S. CUSTOMS, MIAMI, ADVISED THAT IT HAD, INTERVIEWED

EDUARDO. BAEZ, PRESIDENT OF COMANDOS L, MIAMI, WHÖ CLAIMED

HE HAD BEEN ASKED TO SIT IN ON MAS' PRESS CONFERENCE

4

WITHOUT PRIOR KNOWLEDGE OF CONTENTS OF ANNOUNCEMENT AND

THAT TO HIS KNOWLEDGE CUESTA WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THIS

ACTION. CUSTOMS SAID

, THAT MANOLOGARCIA AND ALFREDO ASTRO

WERE AMONG CREW OF "ANGELINA" WHEN IT DEPARTED FORVSAN JUAN.

' REVIEWED BY FSI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

7.2397 dal

DE RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

¡ the intelligence contained in the above mespage is to be disseminated oulside the Bureau, it is sugsested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 54027 DooId: 32322722

Page 2

---

