# docid-32989601

## Page 1

File #:

62-40-116395

Serial Scope:

F NK 1192-1196X 1198X 1199.1200-1200x

Reisaaes

1868÷ 389 6928

Kennest

Handbacherter

Saag=: x 99022 babe: 42-20-252-

Cettecther Goe g5 2932

NW L55012--D0010: 32989601

Page

---

## Page 2

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

V. S. SENAIE SELECI COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

1 - Mr. J.

A. Mintz

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

December 8, 1975

1 - Mr. D. Ryan

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

Reference is made to my letter to you August 19, 1975,

wich furnished a memorandum with enclosure concerning an

interview by a representative of the SSC of former FBI Special

Agent George G. Moore.

Enclosed is the original of another memorandum which

reports on another interview of hoore by SSC Staff Members.

A copy of the memorandum is also enclosed for forwarding to

Mir, James A. Milderotter, Associate Counsel to the President,

Enclosures (2)

ALL INFCRMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

62-116395

DATE 2-14-81

-ВІди

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

Michael E. Shaheen, JK

pecial Counsel fo

Intelligence Coordination

(Personnel file former SA George G. Moore)

1 - 67-

(11)

not 814:=-12004

Ten l 110-09-038

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. —

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Ident 7

ident. -

Inspection

intell. -

Laboratory.

Plan. & Eva!. -

Train Iny 0A

Training .

Legal Coun, Le

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y is

MAIL ROOM I

450AN 20048782989601

Page 2

TELETYPE UNITI

ur e

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 3

JFK Law 10(a) (a)1

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 3

---

## Page 4

JFK Law 10(a)1

NW 55012

Docid: 32989601

Page 4

---

## Page 5

JFK Law 10(a)1

-NN 55032 DocId: 32989601 Rage 5

---

## Page 6

JFK Law 10(a)1

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page

---

## Page 7

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED (check

appropriate

If a document was made available

review but

not transmitted, so note.)

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING 3 INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY |

JOTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/8/75

TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

The Attorney General with a copy for forwarding to

SSC

the Phite House

HSC

4.

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee,

testifier and subject)

Memorandum reporting results of an interview by SSC Staff

Members of former Special Agent George C. Moore

5. IN

RESPONSE TO (ist date and

item number if in

wise

state

verbal

request

response to

formal request, other.

of (name),

initiative,

subpoena,

etc.)

6. CLASSIFICATION OF

INFORMATION (enter

odeword

or

NA

U

7. KEY

"under tent fore phases ate key

emphasis)

words from the list paRORMAN ONTARley morda not listad aro

EREIN IS UNCKASSIFIE

Counterintelligence

Organization and staffing

DATE 10/27/DE BY SPRAUYE

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Intezvieved regarding the Bureau's Counterintelligence

program during the 1967-69 years relating to Southern Christian

Leadership Conference and Black Extrenists.

62-716395

FMK: Emk

(4.)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL, COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS

APPROPRIATE

379| (6-75)

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 7

---

## Page 8

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

note estattoo lo certain ministment i dormation may beaphrased here

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary

is required. Additional

pages may be

attached if necessary.

Moans i.o

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 8

---

## Page 9

1

N. P. Callahan

Hr :

Hr.

J.

B. Adams

R.

J. Gallagher

45 •

W. R. Wannall

J. Stantoy Pettiagor

Anslatant Attorney Genoral

Becambar 8, 1995

Glwi1 Rights Divinion

1 = MI. J. G. Deegan

Alrostor, FBI

. - Ht.

W.

cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

FDR-1O

I INFORMATION CONTAINEU

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

EREIN IS INCLASSIFI

ATE 1Ю 160 BY SPAAUMK

Reteranoe is nade to your lottor dated Dacosbar 4,

1975, In the above caption, your roforence D$ 141-72-668.

pain is to contira a telephonse consenteation on

Recanbar 5, 1975,

between Mr. Mobert A, Murphy of the Departzant

and Deputy HERoElAto Dirpetor Jazas 1, Adans of this Murala.

Adans sought clarifying tatornation concorales thois portions

o1 the referoncod lotter portalala to "frianda rad arsociates"

of King, particularly as mattooed la the ripartains stateront

(pago two, ponultinato paragraph). It was agreed betreen

Merphy and Acros that inltially,yo will rate avatlable the

files relating to King.

his lamodiato fanily and the Southern

Christian Inadorship Confereuce (MAC), As #011 re tho 1i1e

concorning. the FBl'a investigation of the assasinatton ol

King -

In DO 1a1. 20

"Irlond» and innociaton" of BiBY 270

concerned, an the reyter of the abora-described tilos by the

Civil Bights Dirtalon progroanes, to Mill also nike available

Additional files rotating to "frionda dnd anxeelatos" as the

Diyinion say desirnato and request saxo.

In the sprit of the compladanass al your terior

which 1s no essential, yo aro also desiganting tro additional

illas for innadiato torten az thay contals aunaxoss reforonade

to sees the n066-and related setters.

It wo tron these

two, tilos that many commanications hare alroady bean furnished

to the Sonato and Houro Bolect Conaltires on Intelligence.

UNIGINAL FILED IN

These tro filos aro entitled "Comaniat talliancs ta Arcial

Mnttora" and Condu

It PArty: Bld - Nasta Quextion."

1t 1s suggeste

that you con one to eat i gen rolatal it starter.

Moanihilo, to vill soldedt the nocoorary tarratorin tron our

Itold offioon for your further consideration.

This natter has boon dentonated Tithin this sureau

as of the highest priority.

62-1663957

100-106670

NOT RECORDED

1) - 62-116395

(SENSTUDY 75)

A6 DEC I: 1975

A PES 1, A DU PLICATE YELLOW

---

## Page 10

Department of Justice

FOR RELEASE AT 10:00 A.M.,

E.D.T.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1915

STATEMENT

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-Inva

Asst. Dir.:

Aamp. Syst,

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. --

Ident

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y

OF

THE HONORABLE EDWARD H. LEvI

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES

BEFORE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 0/19008/58 ALAKP

10:00 A.M.

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE

WASHINGTON, D. C.

62-114-395-1

NOT RECORDED

46 FEB 6 1976

5-8

62-1163-75

8%606 EB 6

NTW

6019752989601

Page

10

---

## Page 11

• .

The Committee has asked me to talk with you

today about the future of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

I thought it might be helpful if I outline quite briefly

some of the points I would like to make, some of the

problems I think ought to be considered, and some of the

steps we have taken.

The first point is that the statutory base

for the operations of the Bureau cannot be said to be fully

satisfactory. The basic statutory provision is 28 USC

533 which provides that the Attorney General may appoint

officials "(1) to detect and prosecute crimes against the

United States; (2) to assist in the protection of the

President; and (3) to conduct such investigations regarding

official matters under the control of the Department of

Justice and the Department of State as may be directed by

the Attorney General. "

There are other statutes, such

as the Congressional Assassination, Kidnapping and Assault

Act, which vest in the Bureau special responsibilities to

investigate criminal violations. In addition, there are

Executive orders and Presidential statements or directives

which place investigatory responsibilities upon the Bureau.

A number of questions are often asked about this

statutory base. It has the virtue of simplicity, but the

Executive orders which deal

with government employee

investigations are complicated and confusing, and Presidential

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 11

---

## Page 12

..

- 2 -

memoranda or, perhaps, oral instructions from a President

mày be difficult to collate. I think it is important,

in any case, to separate out the kinds of questions which

are

asked about the Bureau's authority base.

Some questions

are constitutional in nature, relating to the inherent power

of the President; others go to the interpretation of the

statutes and the relationship between the statutes and

Presidential directives; others go to the failure of the

statutes to define sufficiently the areas of the Bureau's

jurisdiction or to spell out sufficiently--and this is

partly constitutional--the means and methods which the Bureau

is permitted to use in carrying out its assigned tasks.

The second point, related to the first, is a

continuing discussion of the role of the Bureau in intelligence

investigations or domestic security investigations. The

argument is sometimes made that the Bureau's proper role,

at least in purely domestic matters, should be limited to

investigations of committed crimes. The basic statute for

the Bureau is broader than this,

as have been Executive

orders and Presidential mandates to the Bureau. The basic

statute is broader, since it refers to investigations

regarding official matters under the control of the Department

of Justice and the Department of State as may be directed

by the Attorney General. A disparity is sometimes seen

among the different roles of the Bureau in crime detection,

in on-going domestic security matters, and in foreign

intelligence or foreign counterintelligence matters. In

ITIN

55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 12

---

## Page 13

3-

recent days a statement by the then Attorney General Harlan

Fiske Stone, who reorganized the Bureau and chose J. Edgar

Hoover as its director, has been quoted as a relevant

warning.

Stone warned, "There is always the possibility

that a secret police may become a menace to free government ;

and free institutions, because it carries with it the

possibility of abuses of power which are not always quickly

apprehended of understood.... It is important that its

activities be strictly limited to the performance of those

functions for which it was created and that its agents

themselves be not above the law or beyond its reach ....

The Bureau of Investigation is not concerned with political

or other opinions of individuals. It is concerned only

with their conduct and then only with such conduct as is

forbidden by the laws of the United States. When a police

system passes beyond these limits, it is dangerous to the

proper administration of justice and to human liberty, which

it should be our first concern

to cherish."

I should like to suggest that Stone's warning always

must be considered relevant to the proper conduct of the

Bureau's duties, but it does not necessarily follow that

domestic security investigations are, therefore, outside

the Bureau's proper functions. The detection of crime in

some areas requires preparation and at least some knowledge

of what is likely to be going on. What is at issue, I think,

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page

13

---

## Page 14

- 4-

is the proper scope, the means and methods used, the attention

paid to conduct and not views, and the closeness of the

relationship of the conduct and that which is forbidden by

the laws of the United States.

Third, I realize that some proposals, since I

was asked about this when I last appeared before this

Committee, might separate out in some fashion domestic and

foreign intelligence functions from the FEI or from one

another within the FBI. This is, of course, an issue to

be looked at. I assume it is recognized that there may

be some relationship between

that intelligence which is

domestic and that intelligence which is involved in foreign

counterintelligence work. One may lead to the other.

And there may be a relationship between foreign counter-

intelligence and foreign intelligence. If the work were

separated out into different agencies, I do not know if

the decision about when an investigation should pass

from one agency to another always could be made easily.

Moreover, even so, information presumably would pass from

one agency to the other. I know that one consideration

has been that it might be decided that information collected

by some permitted means in intelligence investigations

under some circumstances should not be used in criminal

prosecutions. But if there is an exchange of information,

this must always be a consideration, whether there are

separate agencies or not, and the basic question then is one

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page

14

---

## Page 15

-5 -

of use and not organization. The more active concern,

I believe, is that there is a risk that conduct proper for

one area may be improper for another, and that the combination

can work a contamination. My view on this is that in any

case

we

must decide what conduct is appropriate and is

inappropriate for each of the areas, and we must take

steps to make sure that proper conduct is lived up to. My hope

is that the fact that the FBI has criminal investigative

responsibilities, which must be conducted within the confines

of constitutional protections strictly enforced by the courts,

gives the organization an awareness of the interests of

individual liberties that might be missing in an agency

devoted solely to intelligence work. I know the argument

can be run the other way. I believe the dangers are greater

if there is separation.

NW 55012 DooId: 32989601

Page 15

---

## Page 16

' .

-6 -

• .

Fourth, there is a question as to the proper role of

the FBI in crime prevention and whether or not it should be

considered authorized to take steps under some circumstances

to reduce the likelihood that crimes will be committed

of that serious injury to persons or property will occur.

Preventive action has raised serious questions and these

must be dealt with.

I suppose an initial question is

whether it should be allowed

at all. Yet I beliève under

special

circumstances and with proper controls most would

believe this to be a proper function.

Fifth, the problem of proper controls, supervision and

accountability is all-embracing. By statute the Federal

Bureau of Investigation is in the Department of Justice,

and also by statute the Attorney General is the head of the

Department of Justice. The history is mixed, of course, and

we all have a tendency to over-simplify, but it is à fair

statement that there have been times in the past when the

supervision by Attorneys General, granted that the Bureau must

have considerable autonomy, has been sporadic, practically

nonexistent, or ineffective. I hope that is not the case now.

The responsibility is a heavy one. But in any event the prob..

lem of proper controls, supervision and accountability goes

beyond the Director of the Bureau and the Attorney Géneral.

I have already mentioned that in my view the statutory base for

the operations of the Bureau cannot be said to be fully satis-

factory. I think that better controls and performance can

be achieved through statutory means, executive orders, guide-

lines

NIN 55012

and

DocId: 32989601

to appropriate congressional committees.

Page

---

## Page 17

- 7 -

•

Sixth, before I come to a resume of some of the steps

which have been taken, let me say I know we all realize that

in the past there have been grave abuses. I am uncomfortable with

a kind of writing of history, however, which sees it only in terms

of the abuses and not in terms of past and present strength. It

is very difficult to be fair to the past in which many institutions

of government carried a share of responsibility. But more than

unfairness is involved. If we are not careful, we will turn to

solutions of the moment which a better reading of history might

indicate are not

the best solutions. I know we must seize the

moment, if I may use such a phrase in this setting. I know also

that this Committee realizes that a very important agency with

dedicated, highly professional, greatly disciplined government

servants is involved. The importance is to the security and domestic

tranquility of the United States. Stone's warning was given in an

act of creation. He was proud of his creation. In spite of the

abuses, there is a proper place for pride. I take it our mutual

work should be to nurture that pride and the conditions which

justify it.

I turn now to a review of some of the steps

which have been

taken or are in progress. We have tried most diligently, under safe-

guards to protect the privacy of individuals and with an awareness

of the unfairness of instant history, to give a great deal of informa-

tion to Congressional committees. Attorney General Saxbe made public

and Deputy Attorney General Silberman and Director Kelley testified

about the so-called COINTELPRO. When the FBI discovered evidence

of several more COINTELPRO projects after I

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 17

---

## Page 18

-8 -

became Attorney General, these were revealed. One of my first

acts as Attorney General, my third week in office, was to testify

before a Congressional committee about possible incidents of

political misuse

of the FBI by the White House in the past and

about the nature of FBI file-keeping systems, particularly the

files

kept by Director Hoover in his office suite. Director Kelley

has spoken publicly and before congressional committees about incidents

in

the past in which FBI agents engaged in break-ins to gather

or photograph physical evidence in intelligence investigations. On

a number of occasions, most recently in testimony before this

Committee, I have described the history of the use of electronic

surveillance by the FBI. We have welcomed such opportunities.

On February 26, 1975, I instructed Director Kelley to report to

me any requests made of the Bureau, or practices within the Bureau,

which he deems improper or which present the appearance of impropriety.

On February 28, 1975, Director Kelley ordered FBI personnel to report

such requests or practices to him. In July, 1975, I reaffirmed my

February directive and also asked for a report of all sensitive

investigative practices. The Director promptly complied.

Director Kelley has regularly provided information on conduct

by Bureau agents and programs underway within the Bureau that

could raise questions. These matters have been reviewed and

discussed within the Deparmor

let so that a consistent and appro-

priate policy can be Achieved. This is a continuing process.

I do not assert that we are aware of everything about the Bureau.

Nor do I suggest that we ought to know everything. Appropriate

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 18

---

## Page 19

= 9 -

communication, consultation and supervision at this level

have to be selective. I make this point, which I think may

sound disconcerting, not in any way to minimize the respon-

sibility of the Bureau to keep the Department informed

nOI

to minimize the Department's

duty to find out. Rather

I want to be realistic about a learning and organization

problem which requires realism if it is to be understood

and perfected.

With respect to possible legislation, the Department

has in preparation various drafts of possible bills which may

be of assistance in the area of what is now warrantless

electronic surveillance. Although obtaining a judicial warrant

does not automatically eradicate the possibility of abuse,

it is perceived to be an important safeguard of individual

privacy interests, and we are exploring, as we said we would

do, various possibilities and alternatives.

NN 55012 DooId: 32989601

Page 19

---

## Page 20

- 10 -

Finally, a committee within the Department of Justice --

chaired by Mary Lawton, Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the

Office of Legal Counsel, and composed of representatives of my

office, the Criminal and Civil Rights Divisions, the Office of

Policy and Planning, and the FBI -- has been working for eight

months reviewing FBI procedures in many areas and drafting guide-

lines to govern those procedures in the future.

The Committee has

produced draft guidelines covering White House inquiries,

congressional and judicial staff appointment investigations,

unsolicited mail, and domestic security investigations. It is

currently at work on guidelines covering counterespionage investi-

gations and will later consider the use of informants, the employee

loyalty program, organized crime intelligence investigations,

criminal investigations, and other aspects of FBI practice.

The Committee's work has been extensive and time-consuming. It

has

involved not only questions of proper safeguards but also of

efficiency in the proper functioning of the Bureau. It has

been an effort to translate into words the complicated and

important mechanisms for controlling the FBI. I hope the

Committee's efforts at articulation will be of use to this Com- •

mittee and others as it considers drafting legislation.

You have received copies of the latest drafts of the

guidelines that have been substantially completed by the Committee.

These guidelines do not yet represent Department policy. There

is disagreement within the Department on some aspects of these

guidelines. I have disagreed with the Committee recommendations.

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 20

---

## Page 21

• 11 -

from time to time, and the FBI has raised substantial questions

about other recommendations--particularly with respect to the

treatment of unsolicited mail. Some of the proposals in the

guidelines could be promulgated as departmental regulations.

Congress may feel some ought to be enacted into statutory law.

Other provisions would require implementation by executive order.

I would be glad to discuss

these draft guidelines with

you in detail in response to your questions, but a brief discussion

of the guidelines on domestic security may be useful at the outset.

The guidelines begin by attempting to impose some order

and definiteness to the domestic security field. To begin

with, these guidelines do not deal with FBI efforts to counter-

act the work of foreign intelligence services operating within

the United States.

Standards for determining when there is

foreign involvement sufficient to place a subject in the category

of foreign counterintelligence investigation are now being debated

within the guidelines committee. The domestic security guidelines

also are not meant to cover security or background investigations

of federal appointees or investigations of ordinary crimes. Under

the draft guidelines, domestic security investigations are only

to be authorized when there is a likelihood that the activities

of individuals or groups involve or will involve the use of force

or violence in violation of federal law. Domestic security inves-

tigations are to be limited to activities of individuals or groups

intended to accomplish one of five purposes: overthrowing the

government of the United States or of a State; interfering with

the activities within the United States of foreign governments

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 21

---

## Page 22

- 12 -

or their representatives; influencing government policies by inter-.

fering by force or violence with government functions or interstate

commerce; depriving individuals of their civil rights; and creating

domestic violence or rioting when such violence or rioting would

necessitate as a countermeasure the use of Federal armed forces.

There is

also a provision for limited investigation when there is a

clear and immediate threat of domestic violence which is likely to

result in a request by a state for Federal armed assistance.

Currently there is no procedure requiring the review outside the

FBI of all domestic intelligence investigations conducted by the FBI,

though the FBI has a long-standing policy of reporting its investi-

gative findings to the Criminal Division. Under the draft guidelines

there would be a comprehensive program of reporting to the Attorney

General or his designee of all preliminary and full domestic intel-

ligence investigations. The Attorney General would be required under

the draft guidelines to put a stop to any full investigation whose.

justification did not meet an established standard. The standard :

would be that there must be specific and articulable facts giving reason

to believe that the individual or group under inves-

tigation is engaged in the activities I have just listed.

Another feature of the draft guidelines is to place

strict controls upon the use of any technique by the FBI which

goes beyond the gathering of information. COINTELPRO was the

name given the use of some such techniques. As I have said

before, some of the activities in COINTELPRO were outrageous

and the others were foolish. Nonetheless, there may be circum-

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 22

---

## Page 23

13 -

stances involving an immediate risk to human life or to extraordin-

arily

important government functions that could only be

countered by some sort of preventive action. The guidelines

require that any such preventive action proposal be submitted

to the Attorney General. He could authorize the preventive

action only when there is probable cause to believe that the

violence is imminent and when such measures are necessary to

minimize the danger to life or property. The preventive action

would in all cases have to be nonviolent. The Attorney General

would be required to report to Congress periodically and no less

often than once a year on the use of preventive action by the

FBI.

I make no claim that during this rather difficult but

interesting and--I must trust--promising period

we have

achieved all that might have been possible. In many ways the

work has been disappointingly slow. But I do think we have

made advances in nurturing and helping to improve a structure

which will be supportive of the best efforts of the men and

women in the Department of Justice and in the Federal Bureau of

Investigation.

No procedures are fail-safe against abuse.

The best protection remains the quality and professionalism of

the membersof the Bureau and of the Department.

NW 55012 DD-911?32989601 Page 23

---

## Page 24

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA BEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr.

W.

War

ha

W. 0.

'Gregar WoLfs

SENSTUDY 75/

1 - Mr. J.

Adams

1 - MI. J.

A. Mintz

1 - Mr. H. N. Bassett

(Attn: J. A. Conley)

DATE: 12/8/75

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dap. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plon. & Eval. —

Training —

Talephone Rm._

Director Soc'y —p

100-1011

This informative memorandum is to record a matter

of particular interest which was discussed at a conference

12/3/75, attended by Deputy Associate Director J. B. Adams,

Assistant Director W. R. Wannall, and Supervisors D. Ryan

and S. F. Phillips of the Intelligence Division, with

Assistant Attorney General Richard I. Thornburgh and

Criminal Division Attorneys Kevin Maroney and Phil White

in Thornburgh's office..

Thornburgh evinced an interest in the recent

extensive publicity generated by the media concerning the

Senate Select Committee's (SSC) "exposure!' at public hearings

of the alleged mailing in 1964 to Mrs. Martin Iuther King, Jr.,

a tape recording and anonymous letter concerning her

husband. You will recall that a key item in the "exposure!

was the

anonymous letter, the original typing of which was

found earlier this year among personal papers left behind

by former Assistant to the Director William C. Sullivan

when he retired.

CONTAIN

MATIO

PLAGSIFIED

BY A

÷

ALL INFOR

HEREIN T

DATE

For ready reference, a copy of that letter

is attached to the enclosure of instant memorandum.

In response to Thornburgh's interest, Phillips

furnished a rather detailed summary of facts and recollections,

using as a "pony" a Work Paper.

In making reference to the

Work Paper, Phillips merely indicated that he set down in

writing some notes which he felt were pertinent and then

proceeded to brief the conferees from the notes of our

Work Paper. A copy of that Work Paper, dated 4,29.752 15.

attached.

Enclosures

S0-110 BEC-30

IK DEC 19 1975

62-116395

CONTINUED OVER

1 - 100-106670 (Martin Iuther King, JI.)

SFP: 1471499)

84 DEC 1 9 1975

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

NW 55012

Doold: 32989601

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

A very significant factor which emerges from the

Work Paper is that the person who was the architect of the

mailing to Mrs. King of a tape and anonymous letter was

undoubtedly Sullivan. It was

pointed out by Phillips that

in the SSC public hearings on 11/18/75, the SSC Staft entered

into the record a denial of Sullivan of knowing anything

about the anonymous letter and Sullivan's claim that it was

a "plant." Phillips pointed out the unfairness on the part

of the SSC in entering only that portion of Sullivan's

"testimony" to the SSC and that the SSC did not put on the

record anything else which Sullivan may have said concerning

the mailing of the tape and anonymous letter. (It should be

Parenthetically noted that there is very stone indication

from information we have, particularly from former Special

Agent Lish Whitson, that Sullivan has told the SSC, either

directly or indirectly, of some part hexhad played in the

(mailings.)

*Sullivan

It was also strongly emphasized to the conferees

that, notwithstanding the efforts of the SSC and the media,

the aforementioned anonymous mailings should not be placed

in the same category as the various official COINTELPRO-type

activities the Bureau engaged in in an effort to discredit

King. It was urged that the tape and letter mailings must

be viewed

as the work of a single individual not officially

approved of condoned by any higher authority in the FBI.

At the end of Phillips' briefing, Thornburgh

inquired as to what part former Assistant to the Director

Alan H. Belmont played in these anonymous mailings and what

knowledge he might have of them. Phillips responded that

other than the two situations referred to in the Work Paper--

and these did not necessarily involve Belmont--Phillips

Iknew of no Belmont involvement or awareness. The two situations

CONTINUED - OVER

NY 55012 DooId: 32989601 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

referred to are: (1) Delivery in 1964 to either Belmont

or former Assistant to the Director DeLoach of a package at

instructions of sullivan, which package may have contained

he tape; (2) Delivery of the tape by tormer Special Agen

ohn M. Matter in 1964 to Sullivan in Belmont's office witl

Belmont present, but not necessarily with Belmont's awareness

of what was being delivered., These two incidents are

discussed on pages 4 and 5 of the Work Paper.

RECOMMENDATION:

None.

For information and record purposes.

-3 -

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 26

---

## Page 27

April 29, 1975

WORK PAPER

Recollections of

SA Seynor Fred Phillips

RE: THE MARTIL LITHER KING, JR. CASS

Three recent significant eventu suggest that I no

reduce to iriting by this informal Work Paper, certain of my

recollections of evencs which occurred about 10 years ago

then I supervised at Headquarters the FBI investigation of

Martin Luther King, Jr.

it is emphasized that these are mere

recollections and they should be vieved in that light. To

set the staze for these recollections, the following are the

three significant events of reference;

(1) On Sunday, 1/26/75, I was called into the

office to assist in a "special" being coordinated by the

Inupection Division, one aspect of which related to the King

ase. I, accompanied by . G. leegan, section thier, is.

Section,

dils, was inscructed to obtaln andinventory/dravei

full of

folders pertaining to ling then being maintained in

a cabinet in a room adjoining Hir. J. B. Adans' office. We

learned that the material in question had been maintained by

former Assistant to the Director W. G. Sullivan and vas left

behind upon his retirement.

In the inventorying of this

material, which was primarily handled by P. E. Hugent of IS-1

Section (I having been redirected to another phase of the

"special"'), there vas noted a document which I considered

at the time of extreme significance.

The document involved (Xeros attached) is the original

of what appears to be an undated letter addressed merely "King."

It has no signature or other indication of the author. The

letter indicates it is written by a legro and suggests strongly

that the letter is intended as a cover commnication as evidenced

by the following quotation therein, "Lend your sexually

psychotie ear to the enclosure."

ocher Language In

Enclosure

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MEREINS 0..3. AGSIDED

DATE 6024

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 27

ODD

1i8+11-37--1200

---

## Page 28

the letter reveals the writer to be referring to personal

misconduct of a sexual nature and that recordings of same are

avallable.

(It might parenthetically be noted at this point

that even though the communication found is an original typing,

it is my belief that if such a letter was intended to be sent

anonymously to King by Sullivan, it would have been very logical

to have prepared the letter with a carbon copy and that copy

used as the cover commnication for any enclosure, thus minimizing

the likelihood of tracing through typewriter examination.)

(2) "The New York Times," 3/9/75, carried a lengthy

article about the FBI investigation of King and included many

allegations concerning technical coverage of King. Highlighted

in the article is a claim that the FBI anonymously mailed to

Mrs. King a tape depicting King's personal life adversely.

The article clalmed that a "former high FBI official" had brought

the matter to the attention of "The New York Times" and asked

to remain anonymous.

Article alleged that in late 1964 a copy

of a tape recording was made by the FBI Laboratory, wrapped in

a small, plain unmarked package with no return address, and

delivered to Sullivan's office. Allegedly, it was addressed

to Mrs. King in Atlanta, Georgia. Another

source described

as "attached to the Bureau at the time" said he belleved the

recording was of a party held by King and others in the Willard

Hotel in Washington, D. C. The article went on to state that

the tape and package had been prepared so as to not be traceable

and that Mr. Hoover wanted the tape mailed from somewhere in

Florida. Sullivan ordered a Special Agent (SA) to fly to Tampa

and mail the tape to Mrs. Ring, the source stressing that the

SA had no idea of the contents. Article went on to state that

Mrs. King said in a telephone interview (time not disclosed)

that she recalled receiving a tape recording In 1/65 and that

she and her husband had listened to it and found much of it

unintelligible.

The appearance of the foregoing newspaper article

caused me to do certain research in our tiles in an effort to

determine whether or not we had any infornation to substantiate

or dispute the allegations. We found that there was no infor-

mation in Bureau files to confirm that a tape vas mailed by Bureau

-2 -

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 28

---

## Page 29

JFK Law 10(a)1

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 29

---

## Page 30

So nuch for the three matters of significance

related above which now make important the occurrences of

events about 10 years ago thich are as follows:

I was in my office in that was then the Internal

Security Section of the Domestic Intelligence Division

(DID) in the Riddell Building, 1730 K Street, I. V.,

Vashington, D. C. My office was directly across the hall

from the office of W. G. Sullivan, then Assistant Director of

the DiD. Some of my coworkers vere also present as we tere

engaged in some special work on the King case and related

matters. This incident was on a Saturday.

Sometime during the morning Sullivan came into my

office and asked me for some unvatermarked stationery. I

through the light, I offered it to Sullivan. He asked me

secretary to ske

it

if I was absolutely certain that the paper was unwatermarked.

I assured him that it vas and he took it into his private office.

Sometime later that morning he telephoned me for the address

of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference headquarters in

Atlanta, Georgia, and may also have asked me for King's home

address in Atlanta, although my recollection of the latter is

not as clear as the former.

I procured the address or addresses,

jotted them on a piece of paper and hand carried them into

Sullivan's private office. He seemed to be busily at work at

a typewriter on a stand

next to his desk. I gave him the

address or addresses and again he asked me if I was absolutely

certain that the stationery I had given him was unratermarked.

My assurance to him was reiterated once agein.

Some time later, I would estimate around noon,

Sullivan called me into his office and handed me a sealed

manila envelope which appeared contained something other

than written matter as it was a solid package. He gave me

a sum of money and asked that I have one of the men rorking

rith me immediately take the package by cab to the Justice

Building and hand it over to 11 Belmont (then Assistant to the

Director). I feel quite certain that it as Belmont to whom

the package was to be delivered but I would not discount completely

-4.

NA 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 30

---

## Page 31

the possibility that it may have been Cartha Daloach to whom

it tas to be delivered. I remember that one of the men vorking

with me vanted to go dounto to do some shopping and it thus

ras convenient to have him perform the courier choce dictated

by Sullivan.

At approximately the same point in time that the

above event occurred, at Sullivan's direction, I arranged

to gather into one place all the tapes ve had of microphone

coverage we had been conducting on King. All these tapes

ociginated in various field offices and ve had those mailed

to the Bureau. Some that had already been mailed in vere

one place. While they vere technically charged to Sullivan

a hey re teen can

and for the record being retained in Sullivan's office, as a

practical matter, I was maintaining these tapes in my office

across the hall from Sullivan's office. Among the tapes I

vas accumulating vere some which for a short period of time

were in the hands of SA John M. Matter (then a supervisor

in the Radio Engineering Section of the Laboratory, now retired).

I remember Matter telling me that he had been instructed on a

very confidential basis to perform a particular task relating

Ilkely to have been Sullivan, with an outside possibility that

he may have got his instructions from Belmont. His am

"edited composite" highlighting reels of tape from FO and

Los Angeles. Because of the very confidential nature of

latter's assignment I, of course, did not query him other than

In xespect to the follo-ring.

From the labels on these tapes

I gathered there vere a specific number that he had prepared

and it appeared to me that the

number he sent me ras one or

two chort of the number (had prepared. I vas unable to get

any exact accounting from

Matter concerning the shortage.

Sometime shortly thereafter, I obtained the information

discussed under number two above concerning a conversation 1/5/65

between King and an assistant indicating that a tape had been

"Le

* 5 -

NA 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 31

---

## Page 32

mailed to King-

When I learned this infornation, it appeared

likely to me that if a tape had been mailed to King it might

be the one which appeared to be "missing." I had an occasion

at that time to bring to Matter's attention what I had learned

fron the overhear in Atlanta and I suggested that this tas

perhaps the ansiver to the "misuing" tape, Still maintaining

the confidentiality of the sensitive assignment that had been

entrusted to hi, liatter made no affirmative or informative

replies to my suspicions but rather miled "knowingly."

far as I vas concerned at the time, ve had something of an

implied meeting of the minds and I was personally convinced,

though I had no hard evicence to support my conviction, that

Sullivan had some great part in malling a tape to King.

I might add that I didn't at that time conceive of any

communication being sent tith the tape. The finding of the

document discussed under number one above of course changed

my thinking relative to a cover communication accompanying the

mailing of the tape.

The foregoing represents my best recollections

at this time on these matters.

I might also use this lork Paper to set out some

further observation, for whatever value it might be.

the cocument addressed to king, a copy of thich is

attached, contains a statement in the closing paragraph riKing,

there is

only one thing leit for you to do. You kno. what it

1s. Jou have just 34 days in which to do (this exact number

has been selecied for a specific reason, it has definite

practical significant. You are done.

There is but one way

out for you." I have often wondered what the significance of

the 34 days quoted tas. When I learned of Thitson's mission on

11/21/64 I used that date as a starting point. Thirty-four

after 11/21/64 vas 12/25/64, Christmas Day. Recognizing

King's position as a man of the cloth and having many, many

Limes heard Sullivan decry King as a hypocrite because of his

immoral activities although a preacher, it occurted to me that

In Sullivan's mind he was probably trying to direct King's

attention to Christmas Day.

• 6 -

NW

55012

Docid: 32989601

Page 32

---

## Page 33

:

NN 55012

KING,

....

In view of your ion grade, abnormal personal behavoir i

will not digrist your nama with either a dr. or a Revarora as

a Dr. And, 50ur lasü name calls to mind only the tyre of

? King such as king Fenny the VIII and his countless acts oi

adultery and immoral conduct lower than that of a beast.

Hing, Look into your hoart.

You inow you are a completo

Iraud ano

a sures 1a95111ty. to and of us regroes. linita

people in this country have enough frauds of their on but i

Em sure they don't

have one at this time that is. any where

R3E2

your equalo loi are no clergyman and you know it. I repeat you

are a colossal fraud and an evil, vicious one at that..you

could not boliore in sod and act as you do clearly you don't

bellove in any personai moral principles.

Kings like all frauds your end is approaching. You coula

have been our greates leader. You, even at an early age save

turned out to be not a leader but a dissolute, abnormal monsi

imbecile.

We will now have to depend on our

older leaders

Willino a man at character and thent end ta here nthere tiro

him. But you üre doio. Your

"honorary" degrees, four

Hotel

prize (what e era farge) and

other awards will not save you.

KInEs I repeat jou dre

Gone.

No person can czarcone facts, not even a fraud like jousel

Lend your rewrity psJchotic.gan

70 the enclosine Knu kill I2na

JourseLi ana

2 all vous cirt, Lilth,

evil and

moronic

talk exposed

in the

pecorá for all time. I repeat - no person

can argue successiully against facts. You are finished. You ill

find on the ricord or all time your filicy, dirty, evil

companions, male and isnales giving expression with you to jou.

It Is all there on ine resord, your sexuai orgies. Lister i

Yoursell You truey, absormal

animal. You'are on the record. Foi

have been on the record all your aduterous

orgies

extending far

into the past. This one

Tou will understane

is but a ping sample

this. Yes, from your xarious eill plateres

on the cast coust to solores avans end others on the

west coast

and outside indoor you are on the record. King you are ache.

The American public,

the church organizations that have been

holping - Prosteetant, Catholic and Jews will know you for what

you are - an evil, abnormal beast. So will others who have beckedi

you. You are done.

King, there is only one thing left for you to do. Ica insa

What it 13. 20ü hate just 34 days In which to do (thls exa:

number has been

seleced for a suecific reason, it has deral-a

praculcal similicanc.rou are done. Thore is but one way

225

YOU. YOU

13 bared to

take it before your filühy, abnormal fraucaia..

nation easie

3=

Docid: 32989601

Page 33

---

## Page 34

62-116395

2 - Mr.

J.

A. Mintz

(1 -

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr.

W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

December 1, 1975

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNIENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

ALL INFORMATION

HEREIN 19

ONTAINED

LASSIFIED

DATE /0/57

100

DISTA

Reference is made to SSO letter dated November 12,

Li75ex ontaring requests for materials concerning fartin

Pursuant to request in paragraph one of referenced

the presence of

reviewed the file of lactin Luther King, JI-, and rolated

files for the months oi November and December, 1964, fOr

materials perinent to the sse inquiry not previously Ie-

quested.

laterials being furnished herewith which are

designated as Item l are those documents requested by Postal

as a result of this review.

During the review,

Postal indicated a desire to have

copies of all materials designated as Itch 1. It was pointed

out that a substantial mmber of these had been previously

furnished the Committee in connection with other requests.

Postal indicated, however, that he was generally unfamilias

with prior materials furnished in connection with the king case

and was desirous of obtaining all items he selected, even

though many might duplicate earlier FBI submissions.

Although there appears to be no real justification

for duplicate submissions, in view of Postal's specific

request, and in the spirit of cooperation with the SSG,

requested documents are being furnished despite the fact that

a number of the documents have previously been made available

to the SSG.

Materials designated Item 2 are being furnished in

response to request set forth in paragraph two of referenced

SSC letter of November 12, 1975.

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

PEN: adn

ugg Chinmittee.

Its use is tin to officin proecedings bu

(8)

1i.?

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst._

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection.

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training -

Legal Coun. -

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y _

MAIL ROOM L

NW 55012 DooId: 32989601

711373

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 34

ENCLOSURE

14199

AND PETROVER

GPO: 1975 O - 569-920

---

## Page 35

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

A search of the Martin Luther King, Ji., and related

files failed to result in the positive identification of

material prepared by the Domestic Intelligence Division sub-

sequent to April 23, 1964, in refutation of Martin Luther

King's statement to

California,

o1 April 23, 1964, reicried to in Mr. Sullivan

the press in San Franciscuis nemorandun

chat date to Mr. Belmont captioned "Commnist Party, USA,

Negro Question,

Communist Influence in Racial Matters IS-C"

delivered herewith.

It may be surmised, however, that a document under

preparation in the then Domestic Intelligence Division in April,

1964, entitled "Communist Party, USA, Negro Question, Conmunist

Influence in Racial Matters,"

represents the material referred

to in Mr. Sullivan's memorandum of April 23, 1964,

document is a lengthy work paper which was periodically brought

up to date to show every facet of information available re-

garding communist influence in the racial

movement and does

contain information in refutation of king's statement of

April 23, 1964,

evidence

movement. A copy of this document was fumished the SSC by

memo ranâum dated October 6, 1975.

With respect to the excisions in materials being

delivered herewith, where no notations appeas as to reason for

excision, the excision was made for the reason that the infor

mation actually summarizes or quotes from conversations monitored

during electronic surveillances of King.

one to a gu vet and of me hote there are came

there exist

areas where documentation of the infomation is not precise

Thercfore, no

assurances can be given that portions of the materials being

furnished do not contain information developed as a result of

1 - The Attorney General

- 2-

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 35

---

## Page 36

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

NOV1 4 1975

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Michael E. Shaheen, jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

Senate Select Committee Request

concerning the Martin Luther

King matter during the

months of November and December

1964. Please

prepare

an appropriate response.

ALL FBI INTORIATION CONTAINED

CC:

Paul Daly

CDAG

5'

16-17-75

62-116-395-18991

ENCLOSURE!

NW: 55012

Doold: 32909601

Page

36

---

## Page 37

ПАНО, СНАИНАМ

SHAE TOMER VERAS, VE CHAIRMAN

ARiz.

+.45, dn., MD.

A BIRT MANIAN, N.C.

CHAYATE

RICHAHO S. SCH

МАДАМБ МАГА ЗГАЙТИТСТО

FREDRICK A O. SCHWARE, SA, CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SHOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

¿Cited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNVINTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RIS-ECT TO INTELLIGENE ACTIVITIES

(SUASIANT TO S. ASS. 11, FITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20510

November 12, 1975

Proceed C. Shawlda, Jr.,

527°

Diruez Attorney

General

1. E. Ernartment ce

justice

Jiaz MI. Shaheen:

In connection with the king matter and our

fortncoming hearings next ween, we need to have a

compiete understanding of all actions, decisions,

=roposals, recommendations and operations of FBI

personnel with respect to DI. King during the months

of lovember and December 1964. Accordingly, I would

appreciate your asking the Bureau to designate a

representative nho can go through the FBI files for

nose months reiazing to king with Mr. Epstein of our

5=af1

sometime this

week.

In the event that the

roverber-December 1964 portions of the files contain

rateriais pertinent to our inquiry, but which we have

not tet reguested,

itrust that

it will be acceptable

=="=: for auch -tariais to ra designated by dr.

Fostein at the time of the review for delivery to

the Committee.

I would also appreciate your making available

this week all memoranda and other materials reflecting

proposals made or actions taken which pertain to the

handwritten note which appears on the bottom of the

4/23/64 memorandum from Mr. Sullivan to Mr. Belmont

captioned "Martin Luther King" (serial #352), to wit:

"4/23 DA 6 pm I told him we are working up materials

as to what action should be

taken and what reply

should be made.

He agreed."

Your continued cooperation is appreciated.

Sincerely,

ALL FBI INFOR

SHaun I

LATION CONTAINED

ASPERMEP

John I. Elliff

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

ENCLOSUN,

G2-1119-353-1199

INw 55012 Docid:32989601

Page 37

---

## Page 38

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

OLTR

_ Memo

I Report

- 12/1/75

Caption of Sume ENATE SELECT COMMITTEE.

11/12/75 request

Originating Office

Delivered by Rechard 1. 1m

Received by:

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

1, pate: 12/4/75

ALL INFORMATRON CONTAINED

ENCLOSURA

= 353 = 1199

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 38

---

## Page 39

MOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FBI

SUBJECT:

Abstract' of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW

PROVIDED (check

for

review

not

appropriate term.

If a document was made available

transmitted, so note.)

3 . DOCUMENT |

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

TOTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/1/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate

term;

add specific names if appropriate)

ISSC

HSC

4.

IDENTIFICATION

(provide descriptive data for documents; dive name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and

subject)

Monorandum and enclosures

5. IN RESPONSE

To (list date

and item number

wise

state verbal

request

of (name),

nitiative

tive, response termal request, other

SSC letter 11/12/75

o CLASRIETION Sender

Co dews Ts or

?. sed'onde finter the aparopriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

Information handling

Surveillence, electronic

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Materiols relating to Martin Luther Ring, Jr., as they pertain to

the months November-December of 1964. These materials vera

reviewed by a Special Agent in the presence of an SSC Staff

Menber for materiols pertinent to the SSC inquiry not previously

requested.

ALL INFORMAION CONTAINED

62-116395

FMK: Emk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379| (6-751

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 39

---

## Page 40

INSTRUCTIONS

=.

**

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• It additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

etc. If actual document or transcript

pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 40

---

## Page 41

SSO LITTER

ITEM 1

11-12-75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINCO

UNCLASSIFiE

HATE DO TO SEER ALMI

Retain

Se1199

ENCLOSURE

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 41

---

## Page 42

COELISSHIONN SI

003L203050

NISH

DElETED to Porterl santity of

1 • Ji F. Bland

Lesat, Losson (100-3329) Fily frein C02164t

DIreCtOr,

REC- BET (200-106670) 653

PERSONAL ATTENTION

MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR:

SECURILY MATIER - C

1 - F. J: Baumgardner

(Field Supervision)

1. - M. Gregorio

1 - so F: Phillips

Reurairtel 12/10/64 which furnished information

concerning the acezvities of martin lither ding, Ji:, and

a representative oi his Bayard austin, while abroad.

Considerable valuable intelligence is contained in reairtel.

Fox example, it is reported that Bustin was in contact with

Rica Eodgeson and Esne Goldberg.

Hodgeson and Goldberg are

yE""

described, according to a source, as "openly declared

cormunists."

It is also reported that King specifically

asked that Dr. David Pitt be present at a particular neating.

Com

Pitt is described as a Trotskyite. Rustin's contact with

Conmittee for Denocratic Rights in Auerica is also reported.

Refer to your file 100-2301. It appears that you may be

able to appropriately characterize this organization.

Pertinent disseminatable information should have

been submitted by letterhead memorandum (LILl). Your

ovisine your Commillee.

This doesnent is prepared in

attention is directed to Bulet 1/24/64 to Legat, -Beur,

copy designated for your office, "Legal Attache Reporting."

Your attention was directed to certain Bureau Manual

nobicial of

instructions and specifically to the undesirable tendency

on the part of some legats to fail to report investigative

the

rosults in LAH Lorm,

even though the material obviously

ГВІ

and the contont may not be:

Its use

necessitated dissemination.

By return communication submit an lal incorporating

limir,

the positive intelligence concerning associations of King

обСл

response to your request

and Bustin with subversives.

Foregoing Instructions must be ever borne in

mind In your day-to-day handling of intelligence of interest

to the Bureau which obriously will require dissemination.

and for dissemi-

accraos by

Borsona.

•Foisen

Ecimont.

Mche

w:17.

Fisra

inde

Quellen

Trottes

G=

HELiti

..ºk

gEG lA

2sa6l 21

NAILED 30

DEC 1 8 1964

COMM-FBI

E620

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 55012 Docid:32089601 Page 42

---

## Page 43

FD-36

13-56)

SECRET

FBI

Date:

12/10/64REC/34

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Equili

DIRECTOR, FBI

ALL INFOT, HAFION CONTAINED

FROM:

HEREINTS UNCLASSIFIED EXCI

LEGAT, LONDON

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SN - C

(100-106670)

(100-3329) (P)

All ExAsions to pretec send IP

Remyairtel 11/25/64. Offerints One Counter.

MDR-HO

CLASSIFIED BY SPA

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

In accordance with Bureau instructions,

I personally

furnished orally to Ambassador IBBElTS, American

Embassy,

0510

information concerning subject.

This was done on 11/30/61.

MiSS TIBBETTS stated she was most appreciative of this informa

tion and that she would take no action whatsoever which night

disclose her knowledge of such.

She said that she was giving

a small reception for KING-and

his group on the evening of

12/9/64.

He is to receive the tobel peace prize on 13/20/61 i

On the evening of 12/11/64 the Ambassador is giving a formal

889

reception for KING,

the Nobel Committee and Norwegian Government

officials..c.v

On 12/2/64 I furnished orally the same information tani

U.S. Ambassador PARSONS, American Embassy, Stockholm, Sweden. S

Ambassador PARSONS expressed his appreciation for the Bureau

furnishing this information to him.

He stated he had originally

on 12/12/64.

He said this was somewhat unusual in that he

normally does not meet this type of group.

After reflection he

stated he would not personally go to the airport

but would send

a representative from the Embassy. According to Ambassador

PARSONS, KING was to preach at a local church in Stockholm and

then was to meet with a student group.

On 12/5/64 I furnished the same information, orally,

to U.S. Ambassador WiltE in copenhagenenmar.

MIS WHITE

was also appreciative of the information and commented it was

very helpful to know this, even though she would take no

Specific action as a result of

..it:

She was planning to give

a small reception for Dr. KING while

ox DE. KING while he was in copenhagen xB

10S10G x02110"

¿ Bureau

REG- 34

1 - Liaison (sent direet)'?

140-1261 18- 638

3

-London (100-3329, 100-1535,134-28)

CWB.: vW

Арргодея

Sent

+M

1D. DE0.36 1994

the sonal Mon anastoasa

-assip do you

Special Agent in Charge

FROG

WW 55012' DocId: 32389601* Page 43

phi

---

## Page 44

SECRET

London 100-3329

Newspaper clippings regarding subject are being

forwarded

to the Bureau separately.

on 1/25/64 British Security Service, MI=5, advised

that BAYARD RUSTIN had remained in London only a short time

and had departed for New York on 11/14/64 According to MI-5,

RUSTIN had been in contact with a group known as Christian

Action This is a group headed by Canon COLLINS,

who also

heads the Campaign For Nuclear Disarmament: Christian Action

opposes aparthera t South Africa.- According to MI-5 there

are south Arrican Communists In the movement. (5)

On-11/25/64 VICTOR-DOLLING_(Bufile-134-12282)

advised that RUSTIN had been

in contact with COLLINS and had

arranged for KING to

"speak at a Christian Action meeting on

12/7/64 in London. DOLLiNG also informed that while Rustin

and roon entere south see or ant partie d

actS: HUSTLi alSO Saw RICA HOcSOY. According tO POLLLiG,

HODGESOY and GOLDBERG are openly declared Communists. DOLLING

stated RUSIIN was also in contact with the Committee for

Democratic Rights in America.

RUSTIN met RAYMOND KUNERE,

,, who

Is a member of the African National Congress. (E

On 12/8/64 DOLLING reported that he attended the

Christian Action meeting where KING Spoke on 12/7/64- There

meeting was covered by American TV and radio people.

was a large crowd. Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (DUFF

Prominent at this meeting were PEGGY DUFF,

who represents the

was mentioned in Bucab 11/10/64).

• Also present at the meeting

AMBROSE REEVES, the Bishop of Johannesburg:

According:

West Indian, be at the meeting.

bean Association and according to DOLLING, is a Trotskyite. (S)

DOLLING also stated that after the meeting a middle-

aged American inquired as to the cost of hiring the hall.,

When told how much it was, this American wrote out a check

for the full amount.

"DOLLING attempted to look at

to Ideut ill the American but was unable to do so (she check

We are checking further with MI-5 for any pertinent

information which they

may

have obtained regarding

subject's

visit to England.

"The Bureau will be kept advised. S

-2-

SECRET

" NW 55012 Dolä: 32989601 Page 44

---

## Page 45

SECRET

-SAC, Atlanta (200-5586)

Director, FBI (100-106670)

MARTIN LUTHE

KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

12/11/64

• MI.

•Phillips

-

Mr.

Rushing

1

- Mr.

Forsyth

1 - MI.

Coakley

MDR-

UTANED

SO NOUYWUCINI

ALL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

ReBulets 11/9/64, 12/7/64 and 12/10/54•(5)

The Bureau has reconsidered instructions set

forth in referenced 12/7/64 letter that the data from

¡the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) regarding King's

salleged meeting with members of the Italian Comnist

Party and Sccialist Party in Italy in Septerber, 1964,

be included in an investigative report with the source

evaluated as "unreliable."

The prime reason for these

instzuctions was to correct the previous characterization

reliability."

source, which was "of questionable

net

mortgin

Mes decomerut

approval

"er content in

Commisco.

cinnared in response gio

In this respect, the Bureau assumes JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

neither Atlanta nor New York has disseminated this:

information.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

However, if such dissemination has been

made, the Bureau should be furnished with full details

and appropriate communication should be forwarded to the

recipients in order to show

isolesed io

Trevised evaluation

of its source.

litharized person

linda? to official proceedings by

request and is not for dissemi

"olson

elmont

lohr -

eLcach

asper.

allchar

onted

vans

ale

osen

allivan.

1 - New York (100-136585)

GDC: mlf

(8)

181-T02

100-1066765

BEIn

4.04

NAILED 3, 20

sitting finitiese

DE: 1: 1064

BEC IN

rotte:

ele. pran

endi

20L0T

6 193

TELETYPE UNIT L

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 • Page 45

SECRET

IT

---

## Page 46

December 2, 1964

BY LIAISON

The President

The White House

Washington, D. C.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 5.190 SY PALMIP

My dear Mr. President:

"In response to his request to see me,

Dcomerred

for about an hour with the Reverend Martin Luther King in my office

yesterday alternoon. He was accompanied by the iollowing members

of the Southern Christian Leadership Conterence of which he is

President: Feverend halph D. Abernathy, Treasurer; Andrew J.

Young, -zogram Director; and Valter E. Fauntroy, Director of the

organization's Washingion, D. C., office.

The meeting was most amicable and King indicated

that he had requested to see me in an eifort to clear up any mis-

understandings that we might have. He apologized for remariss

attributed to him criticizing the FBI and me with specific reierence

to Albany, Georgia. He stated that in this connection he had either

been misquoted or there had been an outright misrepresentation.

na: 0.2

without

üle express appioval

•e cat the coment may

maine 1099

committee.

220%

Irs ase

This do meet is merared in response to

3S.

aisclosed io

limited to cof

your regrest

sorised person

is not for Missent

Tolsor

Balmin

MorI

Caliotan .

Conrad

Evans

Gaie

NIL E5010

He said that while some Negroes have complained to

hirsthatche FBI has been ineifective in investigating civil rights

violations. he personally discounts such complaints and said he

abigciated the fine work the FRI has been doing in this regard.

He said he had been critical of the FBI only in

connection with instances where our Agents, who had been furnisned

complaints involving police brutality, were, thereafter, observed

" i in it

Belmont (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Miss Gandy (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Mr. Rosen (sent with" corer memo)

1 - Miss Holmes (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Mr. Jones (Sent with cover memo)

72 MI.

Sullivan (Sent with cover memo)

1 - Mr. Morrell (Sent with cover memo)

NOTE: SeE DeLgäch tö Mohr Memo of same date,

captioned "Martin Luther King,

Appointment With Director, 3:35p.m., 12A1661." / U,

-GTQ: bI and smg

(11)

TL

109/

II DEC 16 1964

ODEC 211960

TELETYPE UNIT

DorI 32989601

---

## Page 47

The President

being friendly toward these same officers. He said situations like

this serve to breed Negro distrust ior the FBI. I advised

Reverend King that I was aware that allegations of this nature

had been made and that I had looked into the matter. It was

determined that these charges were without basis.

Reverend King categorically denied ever having made

a personal attack on me and also denied that he had ever instructed

Negroes not to cooperate with the FBI. I told him that when Nezroes

are encouraged not to cooperate with the FBI, the solution of cases

is delayed and sometimes frustrated. He said, to the contrary, he

encouraged such cooperation. He explained that Negroes in many

areas are frustrated. He said he feels it is his duty to keep them

from expressing their frustrations through violence. Feverend King

made reisrence to my report to you on the rioting that took place in

some of our northern cities last summer. He indicated he considers

it an excellent analysis of the situation.

Communist infiltration of the civil rights movement

was discussed. Reverend King stated that as a Christian he could

never accept communism and that he shared my concern with tie

problem. He described communism as a "crippling, totalitarian

disease.

"He said that while there are "one or two" former com-

munists currently engaged in fund-raising activities for the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, he does not tolerate communists in

his organization. Fie cited the communist background of Hunter Pitts

O'Dell and noted that he considered the success of the Southern Christian

Leadership Conterence more important to him than his friendship with

O'Dell. Consequently, he claimed, O'Dell is no longer associated

with his organization.

- 2-

AW 55012- Docid: 32589601 Page 47

---

## Page 48

The

President

The problems contronting the FBi in civil rights

investigations were explained to the leverend King in detail. I

made it clear to him that cases developed as a result of FBI

investigation must oiten be tried in local courts where there are

difficulties involved in getting white juries to convict white

defendants in connection with civil rights matters, I cited some oi

our experiences in this regard.

He and his associates were advised of the recent

conferences held for local law entorcement citicers throughout the

United states for the purpose of fully acquainting them with civil rights

legislation and their responsibilities in connection with same. I told

him that the results of this campaign have been encourzging in the

cooperation received.

I pointed out to him that there is a great misunderstanding

today among the general public and particularly the Negro race as to

the siI's role in civil rights matters. I emphasized that the FBI is an

investigative arency, that it cannot recommena prosecution or make

on-the-spot arrests where rederal laws have not been violated. He

was advised that the FBI will not protect civil rights werkers or

Negroes because the kEl does not have the authority or jurisdiction

to do so. He was also advised that the FBi cannot and will not

exceed its authority. Reverend King was told that our investigations

are conducted in a thorough and impartial manner, but if he or any of

his associates knew of a Special Agent wao had shown bias or prejudice,

I wanted to know about it immediately.

Reverend King indicated that the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference is planning to engage in voter registration

activities in Zelma, Alabama, on or about January 1, 1965, and that

he has learned that there could be violence.

I told hima that our Agents

would be on the scene, not for the purpose of rendering protection,

but to observe and report to the Department of Justice any possible

violations of civil rights that may occur.

a certa

1 3-

NW 55012 DöcId:32989601 Page, 4851

---

## Page 49

.. z

The President

Reverend King expressed his gratitude for having the

opportunity to meet me. He said he felt our meeting had been a

productive one, and I told him to feel free to get in touch with me any

time he thought it necessary to do so.

Respeetfully submitted,

-*=.

NW 55012

Docid: 32989601

"Page"" 49

---

## Page 50

34

RET

tolson.

Belmont

tors

WaLeach

Cospar.

Castanen

Canias.

Evens

Gale

Hosen

Sulliven -

Tavel.

Trother

• NN 55012

DocI

delivere

MDR-16

TED BYSPALMLY

ON TO DE

December 2, 1961

BY LIAISON

1 - Mr. Belmont

-

Air.

Mohr

Honozable Bill D.

Mr.

DeLoach

kloyers

-

Hr .

Evans

Special Assistant to the President

-

Мт.

Rosen

The White House

-

BT.

Sullivan

Washington, D. C.

-

Mr.

3122d

1 - Hr.

Baungardner

Dear Mr. Moyers:

1 - Вт.

Phillips

Subject to Criminal

arctions

Unauthorized Disclosyre

NATIONAL SECURITY

I thought that the President would like to haves

the following information concerning

Martin Luther King,

which was obtained fron contidential

sources who have

supplied reliable intornation in the past.

King, who is to receive the Nobel Peace Prize In -

INFORMATION

VEC

has requested severe: mayaunts" to furnish him materiap

(Con Witch he intends to choose the best thingg to say.-

Stanley David

Harry Vachtel and Bayara Rustin.

ALl four oi these Individuals are frequent

advisors to King.

14 PM '51

>

Jones, in the mid-1950's, held a position as

Leadership in the Labor Youth League, an organization which

has been designated as subversive pursuant to Executive

Order. 10450.

As of July, 1953, Levison was a secret menber of

tne Communist Party,

USA.

Wachtel is the Executive Vice

President of the Gandhi Society for Human Rights,

raising adjunct of the southern Christian Leadership

Conference, wich Conference ig headed by king.

On March 5,

1944, a source of this Bureau advised that Wachtel's name

was on a list of nawes, signaticance now own

maintained

at the headquarters of

the bligs county conmunist party,

New York.

The sane source aiso advised

on barch s, 1944,

that

the

name of lachtel's wife, Leonora, was maintained

on a list of names of newly elected officers o1 the Beth

Beach. C1yb,07

100-106670

the kings county Comunist Party, New fork.

SECRET

SEE NOTE PAGE TIO

Group 1

(11)

dougrading and

declassitication

1964

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 50

---

## Page 51

Honorable Bill D. noyers

Rustin is a formar weber of the Young Communist

League, an organization which has been designated as subver

sive pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

This infornation is also being furnished to other

officials of the covernment.

NOTE:

Sincerely yours,

-suR

Classified "Secret" as the information is from

highly sensitive sources such as AT 1380-5*.

The unauthorized

disclosure of this information could affect the security

bf these sources who are of continuing value and thus

possibly be injurious to the national defense.

Information

obtained iron NItel 11/25/64

and ATtel 11/27/6%.

Dissemination

to the military intelligence

agencies being made by separate

communication.

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601: Page 59'*

пра

+ see a

---

## Page 52

5:61 g.I0.

Docember 1, 1984

MEMORANDUM FOR, ME. TOLSON

MR. BELMONT

WE. MOHN

MR. DE LOACH

MR. ROSEN

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper.

Callahan

Carrad

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Suliivan

Tavel

Trotter

Holmes

Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE SATO SEALED

returned my carlier cail to hira and I advised hir that I had

seen Dr. Martin Luther King, who was accompanied by

De. Abernatiy and two otner cohorts. I stated that King was a

very persuasive spezier and Air. Eatzenbach Indicated Sing

was a grcat publie speaker and that was about ald be could say

for King.

live

I aivised Mr. Katzenbach that I took the ball away

from king at the beginning, that ising was most laudatory about

the Burcau's work and so was Abernathy. I further advised

approval

Mr. Katzenbach that sing had a press statement already writton

of

cut to hand the newemsn in iny reception room; that i rciused

to make any comment oy statement myseif; that King read his

your Concilice and the content may not

ration arsian yers Committee.

Its 2182

This document is premarco, in response to

statement about having an open channel of communications and

all working for civil rights. I stated that King did not have in

the FBI

his press statement the very commendatory remarka he made,

that he could not have been higher in hia pralee of the Sureau

and of the great job we have done in the fouth. Mr. batzenbach

said that was too bad.

ja judos that I had gone throug with l5e

I told Vir. Katzenbach that I just wanted him to

Mr. Katzenbach then asked if I were going to tell

the President about the situation in visalasiopi - about the

arrests - at some puint. I answered yea, and Mr. Katzenbach

sald the Fresident should be informed. I advived him that we

nau not decided when it will be done.

that it is being considered.

REC 14,10-106670-563

ausciosea to unantiorized person

Mal mineerings by

your request and is not for dissemi

JEH:rm, (9)

pEn

- XEROX

964

191 DEE 3

1964

DEC&IROGA

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 55012 DocIa: 32989604 . Page: 52

1

---

## Page 53

Memorandum for Meaars. Tolson, Belmont,

December 1, 1964

Mohr, Deloach, rosen

Mr, Katzenbach stated my people had discussed it with him and

he thought the way the Bureau proposes to go ahead is the right

way. I said I thought so, too. Mr. Katzenbach said he had toid

Jim Malley this and suggested that i tell the President that the

Department had approved this way. Air. Katzenbach stated it

was such a great job the Bureau people did down there he would

lise the President to hear it from me.

Very truly yours,

FJ.E. H.

John Edgar Hoover

Director

SENT FROM D. O.

TIME LE 37A1

DATE

12/2/64

BY .

The should send Patentach

a copy my letter to

Shite House.

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 53

---

## Page 54

UNTUNAI FORM NO. TO

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GU

NMENT

Memorandum

VELOPH

1

- IT.

Belmont

1

-

Mohr

1

-

Mr. DeLoach

TO

I. C. Sullivan

DATE: 11/30/64

1 - Mi. Rosen

-

NiX.

Sullivan

FROM:

F. J. Baumgardner

Liaison

Molson -

„Belmont.

Moja

Casuet

Callahan.

Conrad -

Evans -

Gale

Bosen

Sullivat

Tavel -

Trotter -

* Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

J. F. Bland

F. J.

Baumgardner

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR:

1

S.

F.

SECURITY MALIAN - COMMUNISI

Phillips

All Dalemais to protect reunite of trical.

TO6-11

Memorandum from D. J. Brennan; JI., to Mr. Sullivan,

11/13/64,

recommended, and the Director approved, that Legat

Bates a

London, be authorized to orally brief the

United States®

Ambassadors in London and Oste concerning hartin luther King, f

arition

The briefing was concerning both the communist influences on

King and King's degenerate nature.

Bates had requested such

permission because he anticipated that the Ambassadors might

consider entertaining king while he is in Europe to receive the

Nobel

Peace Prize and Bates believed he could forestall such

action by the Ambassadors if they were briefed.

Assistant Legat Minaich, London, telephoned early

today (11/30/64) and advised that Bates would also like to

brief our Ambassadors at Stockholm and Copenhagen as King ist

Committee.

also visit these cities.

The Legat's office, london, will

telephone again via cost-iree defense facilities tomorrow (12/2/504.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ASSIFIED

UNG

IS

Our Ambassador at Stockholm 1s a career Minister,

Graham Parsons.

The Ambassador at Copenhagen is Mrs. Katherines

us white.

He have nothing unfavorable in our files concernins

Lill

these two Ambassadors which would preclude giving them the sames

briefing we previously gave the Ambassadors at London and Os10

Our relations with the Ambassadors are friendly and it is

believed that Bates should be permitted to briet them.

RECOMMENDATION:

If approved, we will tell Bates that he may orally

brief our Ambassadors in Stockholm and Copenhagen along the

same lines as he previously

briefed the Ambassadors at London

Upon approval this memorandum should be routed to

Ilaison for the necessary advice to Bates via cost-free telephon

facilities.

49.100-106670

for

rissemi-

SFP: jad

(10)

Hats..

MerM

REG- 3411 DEC 4

1964

579 DEC8-1964

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 54 941

---

## Page 55

I5534-7-4

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-108

-A4AP-9T6? EDITION

IS: GRA. REG. 119. 27

•UNITED STATL: 6.

NMENT

Memorür.cum

olson

Belmon•

Mont -

DeLoach

Casper

Callchan

Evans .

Gair -

Mr. Mohr

DATE: Novs nder 27: 1964

FROM

:C. D. DeLoach

rotten

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT: ROY WILKINS

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT

OF COLORED PEOPLE (NAACP)

APPOINTMENT 11/27/64

FBI HEALQUARTERS

WASHINGTON, D. C.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSITIE

DATE D/21/00 BY SP2ALMK4

Roy Wilkins, Executive Secretary, National As sciation for the

advancement of Colored People, called me from New York a 14:55 p.m. today. He _

stated that he had to fly down to Washingtion to see me immesiaiely. He asked if I

had any available time. He apologized for attempting io ii range an appointment en what

he termed a "holiday weekend." I told him the "holiday wi: zend" made no differerce

to us and that despite his unwarranted statements concerning the Director and the I3I,

I would sit down and talk to him.

Wilkins arrived at 4:00 p.m. He stated that he was greatly concerned.

He made reference to the Director's Loyola speech last Tuesday, 11/24/64, in which

the Director had made reference to "sexual degenerates" in pressure groups. Wilkins

stated he personally knew about whom the Director was tulsing, although many other

Negroes did not know. Wilkins added that he had receivec at least three newspaper

inquiries during the past two days from individuals inquirins as to whether King was a:

Isexual degenerate or, not.

Wilkins told me that he personally did not minu seete

King ruined. Hel?

stated the important part of the matter, however, was the fact tat

ing was ruined

the entire civil rights movement would be ruined. Wilkins stater i be" personally

icy. that King was a "liar" and that he had little respect for hil

quotea an example

i his wife stating last night at a Thanksgiving dinner with friends, puz being asked if

S'& laew of the terrible things that "dar Hoover had said about overend king betell

'=Liar." Mrs. Wilkins replied, "This doesn't surp: se me because fing is a tiar. "

sixins continued that while King is no good, his ruzation will su.". th downi... of thel!

¡entire civil rights movement.

1400-106670

NOT RECORDED

Wilkins told me that despitelagEt Ibuypess one sexual degene:

zugations and communist allegations against is, many of

rio associate:

tolson

Belmont

Enclosure

This decument is rene l reanches to pous pamest cnais not for dissemi-

rion mlt-94 40027004500

Its used faceto mei ato?

dings buy

callit in

300 Cie.

69662462602 30099952

sit widabis engross approvof a

---

## Page 56

NW 55012

DooId: 32989601

Page

56

---

## Page 57

Law 10(a)1

DeLOuch to Mohr Niemo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/54

FBI Headguarters, Washington, D. C.

would jump to the defensive and defend King. On the other hand, however, many of the

white people who believe in the civil rights movement and who yearly contribute from

$500 to $50, 000 to this movement will immediately cease their financial support.

Wilkins added that the loss of financial support will be tremendous, however, the loss of

faith in King by millions of Americans would be even vorse. He stated the combination

of the two would, of course, halt any further progress of the civil rights movement.

Wilkins told me that he and a number of the Negio leaders had attempted

several months ago to get King to accept the presidency of a small college. He stated

King had refused to do this because he was accustomed to the hypocrisy of adulation

and to the money that was pouring in to him. He stated that King for some time now has

received from $500 to a $1, 000 per speech on the icara circit. He mentioned that

King receives considerable support from wealthy Negro and Flue people alike. He

stated irat obviously the best thing that the Negro leadors cust is now would be to get

King to accept a position as Pastor of a large Negro church and thereby retire forever

las a leader of the Negroes.

Wilkins stressed the jact that he was no seeid-re as an emissary. He

I stated he had some influence on King but not much. i ador that there were others

within his movement who had greater influence and that pe fus i: jether some pressure

could be brought on King. Wilkins then added that he hoped that the FBI would not

expose King before something could be done.

I interrupted Wilkins at this point. I told him "ai the Director, of

course, did not have in mind the destruction of the civi rights me: ement as a whole.

I told him the Director sympathized with the civil rights novems it as exemplified by the

Director's supervision i the FBI's many brilliant ace - aplishmeris in this field.

added, however, that we deeply and bitterly resentea ine lies and iasenooas tola by

King and that if

King wanted war we certainly would give it to him. Wilkins shook his

head and stated there was zo doubt in his mind as to which side would lose if th: -BI

really came out with ai of lis ammunition against King. I told him the ammu....n

was cientiful and that while we were not responsible for the many runors being : itiated

against King, we had heard of these rumors and were certainly ine susition to

substantiate them.

I told Wilkins that inasmuch as e was attempting in an. out th foc: -r

of peace he should know a few positive facts of life. He asked wha... sant.

i:

hir my point was that he was attemptin;:: pr vent the FBIfrom ex, sing Kin: si

cer in highly-placed informants of ours had ped us off to absolutely reliabic intor-

marion that King had organized a bitter crusa:. against the Direstor art the FE I

told Wilkins

these long-standing and will piaced informants had au? sed us ti-..g

- 2 -

CONCIUSE-SVER

NW 55012 - DocId: 32989601 -Page- 57% 7.

35707

---

## Page 58

• DeLouch to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

- FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

had contacted people in various parts of the United States to get them to send telegrams

to the President, the Attorney General, and the FBI asking for Vir. Hoover's reti"f-

ment or resignation. I told Wilkins that King had also encouraged telegrams to be

sent advising the FBI of laxness in the investigation of civil rights matters. I asked

Wilkins how in the hell could he expect the FBI to believe his offers of friendship anc

request for peace when King was at this time attempting to ruin us. Wilkins merely

hung his head and stated he had no idea that King was carrying on such a campaign.

stated that this upset him greatly and made him all the more determined to initiate

action to remove King as soon as possible.

Wilkins stated that he had long noted King's sympathy toward the

communist movement. He told me this obviously stemmed from Stanley Levinson's

influence on King. Wilkins diverted from the subject of the conversation to spend some

time in explaining that he had also noted communist influence in the civil rights more-

ment in Mississippi. He stated that the cry of "Down with ice Proletariat" was getting

to be the batecry of the militant legroes in Massissippi anu -abama. He mentioned

the same thing was true with respect to Negro allegations of laxness on the part of the

FBI. He mentioned that the Negroes have been led by King and Sayard Rustin to

believe that the FBi could do nothing right; consequently, FEi sciuzion of civil rights

cases made little impression upon some Negroes in the civil rizits movement.

Wilkins stated he was wrong in his criticism o. the Drector. He added

that he was attempting to accomplish, in a mild manner, a division between the battle

of the Director and King and any phases of the battle which wouic eftect upon the civil

rights movement. He stated he has a hard time controlling nis 32-man Board of

Directors, particularly since King is a member of this board. He then added, "We're

hurting, " and something must be done.

Wilkins told me that he will be lecturing in Caifornis rost all of next

week. He stated that before he leaves for the coasi he will attempt i -ee King, along

with other Negro leaders, and tell King that he can't possibly win in say battle with the

FBI and that the best thing for him to do is to retire from puilt. lie, le stated he

may no have any success in this regard, however, that he is sorried that the FBI

can easily ruin King overnight, therefore, for the good si she civil rights cause King

should make definite plans to leave public life and merel; ie Pustor of a Negro church

in the future. I told Wilkins this, of course, was up to sir:; however, I wanted to

reiterate once again most strongly, that if King wanted wa: we were prepared so give

- 3

CONTINUED-OVER

NW 55012. DocId: 32989601 Page 58m g

---

## Page 59

DeLoach to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

it to him and let the chips fall where they may. Wilkins stated this would be most

disasterous, particularly to the Negro movement and that ne hoped this would never

come about. I told him that the monkey was on his back and that of the other Negro

leaders. He stated he realized this. We then shook hands and he left to return to

New York.

ACTION:

It is suggested that the attached letter be sent to the President in

connection with the above conversation.

fusion.

NW-55012_DocId: 32989601

Page 59

---

## Page 60

Transmit the following in .

Via

AIRTEL

SECRET

Date: 11/25/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ASSIFIED BYST

24

jO: DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

FROM: LEGAT, WONDON (100-3329) (P)

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SM - C

Remyairtel 11/13/64 and Bucab 11/10/64.

On November 19, 1964, in accordance with Bureau instruct-

ions, I orally furnished

to U.

s. Ambassador shuct in London the

approved portion of referenced Bucab. The Ambassador was most

appreciative of this information.

He advised that he would not

be in London at the time subject will be here, as he is going to

washington with prime naster son and other top british

Government officials. He said this would of course preclude any

meeting KING might desire to have with the Ambassador.(S)

On November 20, 1964, this matter was again discussed

with Sir ROGER HOLLIS Of MI-5.

He confirmed that the Prime

Minister would not be in London when subject was here and that

therefore the Prime Minister Would not be meeting with KING. (5)

MI-5 is conducting investigation regarding the activities

Of BAYARD RUSTIN, who is currentlyin London.

Legat will furnish

to pete a Anator TOo on Novel 50, 1904:25a515

will

keep

Bureau informed.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCE

CE. 808RBi

VRECIE SHOWN OTHERWISEL

Ones

3

-Bureau

1

-Liaison

Section (sent direct)

-106

2

- London

76670-553

1,0 - 100-1535) GAl DElETIONs to protect

counteres non.offaronts

Approved:

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

SUBV/COI

Til door, is mme in vernone on rest and is not for dissemi

? Senten

Adept Charge ent

o off ral proccedings b?

tie eiches

Gone may not ve disclosed lo uncuthorized person

instinction

Page

60

---

## Page 61

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG, NO, 27

UNITED STATE

MENT

Memorandum

пречк

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

vans

TO

: Mr. W. C. Sulliva

DATE: November 24, 1964

FROM : D. J. Brennan,

Jr.

SUBJECT:

0

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER -

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IT

HE LO'2IOO BY SPRAINE

Д..

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Mr 14.

Reference is made to memorandum Brennan to Sullivan in

captioned matter dated 11-23-64, wherein it was set forth that the

Bureau had no objection to State Department briefing the United

States Information Agency from material previously furnished State

regarding King, including information concerning King's immoral

conduct.

Mr. Paul J. McNichol, Director of Security, USIA, advised

Liaison 11-23-64, that he had, on that date, been briefed by

Mr. Fred Iraband, Orfice of Security, State, regarding King. In :.

this connection, he stated that he desired to make a most urgent/:

request that he be furnished the material in possession of State:

and any related material available regarding King.

MI. MeNE cholLa

explained that currently top officials of USIA, namely Assistant

Directors,

have under consideration an approach to King for the

purpose of"enticing him to accept a State Department grant under

USIA sponsorship for travel to Europe, Africa and the near Last,

such a trip to take place in early December.

McNichol emphasized

that he desires this material so that USIA officials can be adequately

briefed for the purpose of preventing any such assignment being;

l offered to King by USIA. REG- 55

100-106670-556Ry

—On being apprised

Belmont authorized the diss

described above to USIA.

the above, Assistant to the Director

ination of reports and memoranda as

ACTION:

Ame

16 DEG 1

150%

This donement is wered in response to vous eriest and is not for dissemi-

Crums tee.

It's ase

tor intormanonie

WhiM: cd & (6)

- ME..

Belmont

Mr.

Sullivan

1

1

Mr.

Baumgardner (Attn. Mr.

- Liaison

- Mr. McDonnell:

XEROX

Phillips)

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

1964

NW 55012 Dola: 32080601 2Page

UNRECORDED

---

## Page 62

November 23, 1964

Honorabie Nicholas dez, Katzenbach

Aclng Attoiney Ceneral

U. S. Dipartraend of Justice

Washingion, D. C.

Dear Lir. Katzenbach:

I want you to know sow rauch i

appreciate ine müolenearted sarport zhich

you accorued this Bureau azd m3 curing

your press conference in lizzi on Frida].

Your emression ni confidence in

our iftoris is incese gratifring cad yo: may

a caro that we will continac to carry cué

our responsibilities in the duture in a masaci.

wich will merit you approval.

With best wishes and Ixind rezards,

Sincerely,

-EL

. Fagat

jit

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

OETE 3YPO S8Y 522ALNKP

1ITTJ:

i s 1:

waptts:

ORICINAL, FILED IN

This docinen

nrcpared in resoonse to vour requast ond is not for dissemi-

arotion o

ioisr Couanoz"e3.

is imise? lo oficainl grocecdi gs bu

CTHT SSN:

"c? trs conteni mar mor hi lisuloseu to ununtiurized persoi

Shold ine eapress agarovel of the fel

:1,91

ipuur.

icham

=cd.

ins

ds 1a,

M7 9ĐEC7- 1964

I*3

dy

HAIL ROOH L

TELETYPE UNIT I

NW 55012 DöcId:32989601 Page 62.

8 Vớ:

"TIT YNOR

IIXe-*

DA=I 11/23/1x

Haude

inet

3T07

---

## Page 63

OFTIONAL FORM-NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

. 8018-196

2 GOA GEM, RIG' NO, 28

UNITED'STATES GOVE

VENT

Memorandum

Tolson -

Belmont .

Carpesens

• Casper -

Callahan

Conred -

TO

Mr. Mohr

-DATE: 11-20-54

FROM : C. D. DeLoach

Sullivant

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmer -

Gandy -

SUBJECT: ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL

NICHOLAS deB. KATZENBACH

REMARKS CONCERNING DIRECTOR

MIANI, FLORIDA, 11-20-64

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1O DATE 10 27/00 BY SPRALMKP

At 3:50 p.m. today SAC Frohbose of the Miami Office telephoned and

talked with Mr. Wick. He said Mr. Katzenbach had just finished a press conference

in the United States Attorney's Office in the Federal Building in Miami. Mr. Katzen-l

bach is in Florida to speak before the University of Miami Law School alumni

tomorrow.

At the conterence, said Frohbose, were several Federal Juages,

other Federal officials and, of course, TV, radio, wire service and local press

representatives.

At the press conference Mr. Katzenbach was asked if he thought J.

Edgar Hoover should retire after making remarks concerning King. Mr. Katzenbach

answered by stating Mr. Hoover should not retire, that he has complete confidence

in Mc. Hoover and he is one of the great Americans and a devoted public servant.

Katzenbach said that he hoped and prayed that Mr. Hoover would stay on.

The press asked what Mr. Katzenbach thought of Mr. Hoover's state-

ment calling King a notorious liar. Katzenbach said he would not ada nor detract

from Mr. Hoover's statement and he would not comment on it further.

Mr. Katzenbach was asked if Martin Luther King's statement that the

FBI is not investigating civil rights matters in the South is true.

Mr. Katzenbach

said King's statement is not true. He said the FBI has solved many cases and is

investigating cases and will continue to investigate civil rights cases wherever they

be. He said the FBI as well as Katze tach do not want cases to go unsolved.

87

1 - Mr.

De Loach

DEC 4 1964

1 - Mr. Tolson

1 - Mr.

Jones

EC

4.964

REW:cal

(5)

int

NW 55012 Dold: 32949601

COPY SENT TO MR E ON H

=%:

let t ta light che mad in press to

your reques, and is mot for

1i- 235-64..

i de content man not be disclosed lo uncuino rizel

Genesche die eapress approval of the FBI a

Page 63'

insemi-

---

## Page 64

Memorandum to Mr. Mohr

RE: Acting Attorney General

Nicholas deB, Katzenbach

Frohbose said Katzenbach backed up the Director 100 per cent and

his remarks were very well received by news media people.

Frohbose said that he has heard nothing but praise of Mr. Hoover •

from news media people who are grateful to know Mr. Hoover said what is on his

mind.

RECOMMENDATION:

For record purposes.

AiN.

11-20-64

nonito Katzen no a not.

-NW 55012 DocId:32089601 Page 64-7

Frant No

---

## Page 65

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO, 3T

UNITED STATES G.

NMENT

Memorändum

TO

FROM

Mr.

W.

C.

Sullivan

*

: 1.

3. Baumgarang

DATE: 11/20/64

V.

Tolson

Belmen

sohr -

flel.oach

Casper

Callahan

Sontac

Evans

Gale

Aesent.

Sullivan

Tavel -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Elsue

At 3:30 p.II., 11/20/64, SAC Ponder of our Atlanta

Office called and advised that AT

According to the source,

Martin luther King-JI'S,

nel reichione

20240°

nailson

This

if corretta, made the statement

she believed

the Director

meeting with

ing in the immediate future.

the

Commitec

00r.

they made a sia tention

1379-S* alsoadvised that Hartin Lusder King,

father talked with Corretta King and told her

to, counsel

capress

Martin Luther King, JIeto take it easy and to be moderate

in his approach to this problem.

comments concerning the Director's statement.)

(He was talking about King's

approval of

ACTION:

I told Ponder to continue to keep the Bureau advised

concerning any pertinent developments.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DAREND IS YOUSEE

BY SPAANK

misorized person

min! for dissemi-

1

-

Mr.

Belmont

Mr.

Mohr

MT o

DeLoach

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Bland

HI.

Baumgardner

Phillips

FJB:rbm

(8)

XEROX

NOV 125 1964

64 DEC. 1

1964

NW 55012 DocId: 3289601 Page 63

REC: 17

.ST-109

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

100-106670-543

11 NOV 25 1964

RECORDED COPY FILED IN

10'

905

---

## Page 66

COR:ONAL FORM-NO, 10.

3RI0-J0%

16+8. 19129017191

GIA GEN. RIG. NO. 27

UNITED: STATES GC

ANMENT

Memorandum

B

ront

2:20

# Co Sultivar

— FROM

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST

1

--=

hiT.

HiT.

HiT.

DeLoach

Rosen

SuLlivan

DATE: 11/19/64

1 - J. F. Bland

F.

Baumgardner

S.

E. Phillips

, ALL INFORMANON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNN

DATE /027 CO BYS

MARIG

Molson -

Belmont

•Mohi -

De Loachi

•Casper -

callshan

Contad

Evans -

Males

Sullivas

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

At 1 p.I., 11/19/64, SAC Roney of our New York Office

called to furnish information concerning a proposed reply

King will make to the Director's statement concerning him

nating mania.

This docament is preca i response to your rearipo!

your Cine're cil the condone ray to bo desised

which appeared in the 11/19/64 issue of the "Washington Post.!"

ElsuR

Attrie

We learned from NY 4212=S* the following conversation

which took place today between Harry Tachtel and Bayard Rustin,

advisors to King. Wachtel said he had drafted something he felt

King (DI. Martin Luther King, JI.) should release.

Rustin asked

the dire

Wachtel if he thought King should make a statement and lachtel

said he should. There is set forth as follows the text of the

proposed statement as drawn up by Wachtel.

"I have not seen the exact text of j. Edgar Hoover's

press intervier in which, among other things, he attacked the

Warren Commission report and questioned my integrity.

amount of name-calling or slanders can serve as a smoke screen

to hide the signal failure of the fBI to adequately perform mil

wits duties whether they relate to the events leading up to

the assassination of President Kennedy, protection of Negroes

against violence in the South or in the control of the Klu. io m

• Klux Klan and other extreme rights groups.

the personal attack on my integrity I will not allow Mr. Hoover-

" to blur the real issue, namely, that during a reign of terror (D

and violence in many southern communities, the Negro people

received neither aidior comfort from the FBI.

Also inmateriall

inanchorized person-

•I's the place of birth of Federal FBI Agents.

What really?

matters is that the Negroes in southern communities have

nbE for dissemi-

Jearned from bitter experience that the FBI did not act in

these communities to protect them against brutality and

Molence.

Just as no amount of snide comment can overcome the

criticism by the Warren Commission of the FBI's role in the

tragic events of last November, neither can Mr. Hoover's

outburst erase the dismal record of the FBI in the South on

brutality, bombings, murder and church bombings.

The

аНПУ

distemper

of Mr. Hoover does; however,, establistone thing.

100-106670

REC 8

00 106010-51

• NOV 21

FJB: jad jaa

CONTINUED - OVER

(9)

XEROX

56

430

1$542A1 1364

PERS. REC. UNIT

MandOsaand

WW 55012 Docid: 32585601

Page 66720/s

7-79-270175

---

## Page 67

.=

sin: See

+ 72x22-95

-*==

Memorandum to W. C. Sullivan

MARTIN LER KING, JR.

100-106670

i=..

"clearly to the American people and that is that he has

outlived his usefulness as the head of the FBI or as a

public servant.

I am confident that this public display

of distemper will not go unnoticed by the President."

Rustin then replied to Wachtel that he liked the

statement with two exceptions.

One is that Wachtel should drop

the part about King being resentful because King is not resentful.

Rustin said that the second thing he was against was the

conclusion.

Rustin said King does not want to inject hinself

or allow himself to be injected by this incident into something

involving the President.

Wachtel then asked Rustin if he was

against both parts of the last statement, namely, the part

about Hoover having outlived his usefulness and the part about

the President noticing the distemper.

Rustin said he was in

favor of taking both parts out. He said that instead they

could say "The question which now confronts us is whether a

person of such intemperance can any longer serve as a public

serrant."

Rustin said it is better to have this in the form

of a question because it is strong and also because King is not

a person who says this person has to go, etc. Wachtel said he

the statement in anger. Wachtel said he would call Dora McDonald,

King's secretary, in Atlanta to let King

know that we will be

together from 2 to 3 p.m. today and that

the press until he speaks to us. Rustin said ali

King, should avoid

King should

say is that he will have a statement later on.

OBSERVATION:

As you know, Bayard Rustin has publicly admitted

having been associated with the communist movement in the

past.

Harry Wachtel is not known to have been a Communist

Party member; however, there are indications he may also

have been associated with the communist movement in the

1940's and we presently are conducting investigation to

determine this.

CONTINUED - OVER

-

-

Nw-55012 DocId:32989601, Page, Sh

---

## Page 68

Memorandum to W. C. Sullivan

From F. J. Baumgardner

RE: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:

100-106670

The significant thing involved here is not that

these individuals have jumped quickly to King's defense,

but rather that they are seizing the opportunity, in line

with a long-held communist objective, to launch

a Campaign

to oust the Director as head of the FBI.

The important thing at this point is to follow

this matter closely to determine the degree to which Ring

follows their advice in regard to issuing the statement

prepared by Wachtel for we will then have further evidence

of the extent to which king is being used by communist

sympathizers in support of communist objectives.

For the time being, we should hold dissemination

of the information in abeyance until we see which way King

moves.

Then we can put the whole picture together and make

appropriate dissemination.

ACTION:

I told SAC Roney to call our Atlanta Office and

advise them of this development. I told him to instruct the

Atlanta Office to be alert to any additional information which

may be developed through their sources and to keep the Bureau

advised expeditiously.

NW 55012 DocId: 32987601 Page 687g

TETENT 994

To 8-935-97397

studs daises 458145440624536

---

## Page 69

JBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, TO

(4445-1957-IDIT1ON

GSA:GEN. RIG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Mohr

C. D. DeLoach

VAL COLEMAN

CORE READQUARTERS

NEW YORK CITY

DATE: November 19, 1964

E-choacht-

Casper -

Callahan -

orrad _

Gale.

*Sullives ,

Tavel-y

Tratter -

Tele. Room -

Jolmes

Sandy =

Martin, tather King

Val Coleman of CORE Headquarters called this corning and said

that CORE felt it had no alternative but to issue a staterent in rebuttalto

Vir. Hoover's "intemperate" attack on Dr. King. Coleman said certainly he

and the Cona leaders considered the E3l as a friend oi theirs su ie jusi could

not understand why Mr. Hoover would lash out against a man Lie Dr. Fing,

and he added that he wanted to let us know for. the record that CoRa felt they

had to issue a strong statemeni.

wishioni lhe

It was suggested to Cole nan privately that he might want to

back up and think a minute before he criticized the FBI severaly, hat certainly.

Mr. Hoover had not attacised the civil rights movement, that for. cover had

on the other hand been vigorously critical of the low-type law erorcement

officers in the South who actually participated in civil rights violations and whos

were a disgrace to the law entorcement protession. it was further pointed outo

to Coleman that Vir. Hoover's statement regarding King's assertion with respe

to the Albany, Georgia, situation was simply a matter of calling a spade a

soade, and that clearly and obviously King had lied.

Coleman said he would think the matter over and that he would

want to modify his original statement. He concluded his call by saying that to

=e u the content moznot be disclosed

Its use is liaiin!

keep people haypy at CORE he would still have to release a "pretty strong"

statement. Coleman said that he hoped to be down in washington within the

next ten days or so and would like to drop by and he was assured that we

would be glad to talk with him at any time.

140=106670

25500..0.

NOT RECORD:

The above is for information.

141 DEC 4 1964

FicientIt

IT DEC

1964

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

DATE/Q

YLASSIFIED

_BY

1 - Air.

Rosen

1 - Mr. Sullivan

I - Wir. Jones

EPI

(5

DECI

1964

PErSOn

une for dissemi-

are just ha

1201-

ODD TZ

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 69

---

## Page 70

==

Domestic Intelligence L. rision

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date _ 11-16-64

10

EXCISIONS

Proment Fareroly

AGENY & COUNtRY

INVOlVED

This concerns information

we furnished to the British

concerning the background of

both Martin Luther King, Jr.,

and Bayard Rustin. It was in

connection with efforts being

made by King to see the British

Prime Minister Harold Wilson

when King passes through London

en route to Usto, Norway, to

receive Nobel Peace Prize.

SFP: fas

H'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE /D

This decent i me in response to i re be is ot for sma

mito my Correra tea.

"the condont inm rus ba cisclust to wu sorized gerson

nel. withous. ile copress approval of tie r'BI.

;: :

NW 55012 DocId:32(89601 Rage 70,

---

## Page 71

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: November 13, 1964

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

211

Avia

AIRTEL

*1122

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

(100-106670) BElOW EXCISITS TO

FROM: LEGAT, LONDON (100-3329) (P) INtellIGENCe/-atS

RE: MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.

Sit - E

SECURITY MATTER-COMMUNIST

ReBucab 11/10/64,

3:00 AM, 11/11/64.

*INDIRATES DATA INSENTAG

Foreias INtellicace Information contained in reBucab concerning subject

Hady and BaYARD RUSTIN was furnished on the morning of November 11, 1964,

(FiA died tat to one series So the at might

be given on a highly confidential basis to Prime Win¿ster™LS®.

# FFIA

On the morning of November 13, 1964, HOthIS said this

information had been furnished to the Prime Minister.

commented that he was indeed grateful to the Director or tSel

information.

HOLLIS also advised that RUSTIN. had arrived in tonden

on the morning of November 13, from the United States.

RUSTIN

told the Immigration authorities that he was in England to see

the Secretary of State for Colonies and to make arrangements for

KING's farthen rip. weile In i would be staying

at Friends International Center

MI-S is covering RUSTIN's activities and this matter

followed with MI-5 and the Bureau advised.

FTIA

it do it in is = ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IERCINIS UNCLASSIFIE

3

- Bureau

DATE 10 45/0O BY SPRAWNWR

- Liaison Section (sent direct)

2

- London

:(100-1535)

1. 1222-130

21 NOV 16 1964

rating a einite

scher Corn in a and

the content may not 3: disclosed lo inutiorized person

TROT

NW 55012

201964

Approved:

- Special

Agent in Charge

# WiCR

DocId: 32989601 Page 71

Sent

_M

SUBT

Per

---

## Page 72

OPTIONAL. FORM-MO, 10

9010-100

ALLY 196Z EDITION

ORA GEN: REG. NO. 21

UNITEL: STATES GO

NMENT

Memorandum ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

•Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

De Loach

Casper

Callot

TO

MT. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: November 13, 1964

FROM : Mr. D. J. Brennan,

22

Mr. Do Jo Brennan, JEnDeletions to prateer

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING

IDENTiTO fALeUDlY

SECURITY MATTER - COMMUNIST FOrCiaN GUVENMENTS

FIND OFFATE INVOLVED

11/13/64,

out that in view of subject's position as a Nobel Prize winner.

the United States Ambassadors in both London and oslo will.

probably entertain him as the guest of honor at some sociall a

function. Bates said he believes he can forestall this if he

social « guy

can orally brief our Ambassadors. He pointed out that the

Bureau has previously advised nin that we have no derogatory

data concerning these Ambassadors. *Bates will telephone again

via cost-free defense facilities at approximately 2 a.m.gi

Saturday, 11/14/64, Washington time.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ACTION:

HEREIN NO UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10/21,00 BYSPZALMKK

If approved, we will tell'Bates that he may orally brief

the United States Ambassadors to London andkoslo concerning King.

The Ambassadors will be briefed concerning both King's comunist

connections and his innoral nature. This briefing will be along

the same lines that we previously authorized the Legat to furnish

thewBritish as set out in the underscored portion of Bureau cable

to the Legat 11/10/64, a copy of which is attached.

Enco

1

Mr.

Belmont

Mr.

Mohr

Mr.

DeLoach

MI.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Liaison

NI.

Bland

MI.

ME.

Baungardner

Phillips

"RATeS ANVIsED

West

REC

P050106670

GAD: kmj

3602/822

19N0Y 17.1964;

(10)

36N0V23 1364 Lin

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

ENCLOSURE Comr

ration nine von

Committee.

ear? the

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

nel without the express approval of the FBI

liven may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

WW: 55012: Dacid:32/896015

---

## Page 73

Trenber 10, 100s

EtC

SEXIET

DO LEGAS LOCUNTY

jal sented

CIRCH: DIRECTOR 2B] (100-106670) (EMENDY FORGIN

INsclhaeree Aäcret

245224

Ichr

to Loser

Er. Dullivan

1721502

Bland

2h÷111rS

IN LONDON, CIAO, DEONEER SIX AND SISEN, AI. CE 0E

DISARMALIT, FETIN FOURTED TEE SO MARIE TO ARSENCE TOS

TO ANCTION THAT DISCI IS WIIG CEO. DIS CRECIA IZO

THIS NATIOR:

NATIONAL SECURITY

INFORA

Unauthorized. Disclosure

Subject

Crim

Sanctions

ANON

DOE TURNOSE OF CLAZITYING A CCIDUSEON SURROUDG AIG'S TRIa

IN DOOLIGER: CONFUSION NYCLUES FUCK JUAT ARCHAROSOD: CE

CATORET

X DESIRES TO RECSIVE LING DUE HAS DUON OPEOSED 2X

SER: b30

E2C7.

12/10/64,

caption.

1 Foreign

CLASSIFIED.

EXENPT FROM

SCIACULE OF

CU

IC

HON

10o- val 70 5:25

CLOSU

---

## Page 74

2.01663

JFK Law 10(a)1

---

## Page 75

JEK Law 10(a)1

?...

Max E20

---

## Page 76

JFK Law 10(a) (a)1

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 76

---

## Page 77

JFK Law 10(a)1

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 77

o,, g

marenordcy9oogdeled dc..po.dum, .....

---

## Page 78

JFK Law 10(a) 1

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 78

---

## Page 79

JFK Law 10(a)1

STe 55012 DOcId:32939601 Bage 79

wwma.suntnsmacsasastitcataesaestysansyeernttaraomnahwsestawoms.conteeuhxd9w=499795536r1

---

## Page 80

JFK Law 10(a)1

NW 55012 Docid: 32989601

Page. 80

---

## Page 81

CONFI

NIAL

The acting Attorney General

Novenber 3, 1961

2*

• Director, FBI

1 = Mr. Belront

1 - 1r. Hobr

1 - Mr. Deloach

MARTIN LUTHER KING, Ja,

SECURITY KATTES, - CO"MUNIST

pont

- HI. 17a25

1 - Ms. Bland

- Hir. PoseD

1 - 1r. Phillips

- Bir. Sullivan

1 - Hi, Baungardner

A confidential source of this Bureau who has

furnished reliable information in the past supplied the

following intormation on November 2, 1964:

On the morning of November 2, 1964, Martin Luther

King, 5x., at Atlanta, Georgia, learned o1 a

campaign which

had been initiated to encourage people to vote for hin as a

wiite-in candidate for President of the United States during

the election on loveuber 3, 1964.

several forms, including telegrans to Negroes throughout

--

the country; efforts to gain radio time io urge people to

vote to kins; and the circulation of handbilis in large

cities encouraging a vote for King.

the actions described above as an obvious attenpt to cances

4961-S 10N

out the Negro vote and to confuse Negroes in their voting.

Ring expressed the belief that the campaign was initiated

by Goldwater forces on the basis that any votes for Fing

by Negroes would obviously lessen the number of such votes

for President lyndon B. Johnson.

King held a press confer

ence in atlanta on the norning of lovenber 2, 1964, at which

ho reportedly told the press of the joregoing and denied

having any connection will the camraign on his penali.

At

this conference he urged peopie not to pay any attention

to the efforts being expended to have people vote for hin..

liDubject

Unau,

NATIONAL SECURITY

INFORMATION

Lorr

This inornation is also being furnished to the

Fonorable Bill D. Moyers, Special Assistant to the President.

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

REG.

3₴

100-106670-5013

Tolson

Belmont.

#in 13 - il0 I, talder Yeagley. 1:

not. ?

Mohr

Assistant Attorney Genezal

18

NOV -4 1964

Deloach

Cosper

Burke: Norshall

alt BEComissistant Attoracy

Genera]

Gale

losen.

ullivan

avel

100-306670

"roller -

"ele. Room -

lolnes -

randy

NW 55012

(15)

MAIL ROOM •

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32989601 Page 87. En

GROUP 1

Excluded fron

automatic

doungrading

arta

declassilica

Lan HUA

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

---

## Page 82

-CONFIN

LET TAL,

the Acting Attorney General

NOTE:

Classified "Contidential' as information is

fron a sensitive source of the Atlanta Office and while

most of the information may soon become public, some

protection of the source is necessary.

Infornation was

obtained fron our Atlanta Office by tro telephone calls

10:45 a.II. and 11:40 a.i,, 11/2/64. By remorandun

fron F.

J. Baumgardner to Mr. #. C. Sullivan 11/2/64

this information was immediately made known to Bureau

officials and enabled bir. Deloach's Office to immediately

alert the mite House.

3..

CONTREATAR

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 82

---

## Page 83

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3014-106

MAT 196Z EDITION

GSA: GEN. RIG, MC9. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

MENT

Memorandum

Tolson.

Beamont

oht -

DeLoac

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

Evans -

10

Bro Me Co Sullizar

Gale -

DATE: November 2, 1964

(Fosen -

1 - Mr. Belmont

Trotter -

FROM

: Mr.

J. Baumgardner

fool fand

hit.

liohr

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

hir.

Deloach

Gandy -

-

Mr.

Evans

1 - HI.

Bland

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

--

Bir.

Rosen

-

• MX •

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

1 - Mr. Sullivan

Baumgardner

1 - Mr.

Phillips

Minis

By telephone calls from our Atlanta Office

• 10:45

and 11:40 a.i., today (11-2-64), we learned of the following

infornation

through a highly sensitive source.

Martin Luther

King, JI., just learned this morning of a campaign which has

initiated to encourage people to vote for King for president

as a write-in candidate 11-3-64. The campaign is taking several

forms, including telegrams being sent to Negroes throughout the

country; efforts to gain radio time to urge people to vote for

King; and the circulation of handbills in larger cities encouragin

a vote for King.

The handbills reveal distribution by "Committee

for Negroes in the Government, " Louisville, Kentucky.

(o record

organization Bufiles.

According to our source, King interpreted the actions

(described above as an obvious attempt to cancel out the Negro

vote and to confuse Negroes in their voting.

King believes

that the campaign was initiated by Goldwater forces because

any votes for King by Negroes would obviously diminish the

number of such votes for

President Johnson.

Georgia, this morning in which be told the press of the foregoing,

and denied having any connection with the campaign. He urged

vai"

people not to pay any attention to the efforts to have people

ACTION:

The foregoing information was immediately telephonicallys

furnished

to Mr. DeLoach's Office so that he might alertithe

White House. This is for your immediate attention. Letters to

the White House and to the Acting Attorney General are being

expeditiously prepared.

SFP: bgc

ST-108

REC1 OR 104511-511

05..00

struct

*AFTER

AppRasAL!

(10)

1964 -

Of This Met'

• 100-106670

netter

11=7.

ALL INEORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UINE

ASSIFIED

53 NOV 101964

Nw " 55012 DocId: 32989601 Fage 83

---

## Page 84

SSC LETTER

ITEM 2

11-12-75

!

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS

AT 10/217 06 81 5724MK

Retin

Se1199

MW 55012

DocId: 32989601

ENCLOSINE

Page 84

---

## Page 85

•TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

This document

coccared in respe

nation p'tai"?

co?"

Cormiere.

your Con.:

3a:? the con ne wry

capress

approval of

the

110210

OFTIDNAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106

OSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

Tolson

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Belmont

Mohr -

Memorandum

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

MH. BELHONI

DATE: 4/23/64

Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

W. C. Su

cc Mr. Belmont

Holmes

Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Mr. DeLoach

BARTEN LUTHER

KING

DARE NOT O0S52AMKP Ax. SulLivan

598P

I received a call at 5:25 p.m. from the San Francisco

Office to advise that Dr. Martin Luther King Ba, as predicted,

issued his written statement to the press.

It caused a sreat

deal of interest and undoubtedly it vill

be mentioned

it!'

tonite around the country on radio & TV.

King mentioned the Director by name and, in substance,

put hin in the cavegory of southern poiticians and racisüs

who are opposing the bill of 1jaus.

incicared that

Director, if nothing more, houid be used

by these peopla tou

naintaining

segregation, all because the Director sade

King regarcs as being a

false starement charging conmunist

infiltration and influence in the civil rights and negro

-¿"

movement.

King challenged the Director that if he had any real

evidence, to come forth with it. He went on to say that the

leaders of the Negro movement have tried consistently to

keep communists out of policy-forming areas and positions of

leadership.

King quoted the AG against the Director, to the effect

that it is to be expected that communists will try to infiltrate

civil rights movements, but they had not succeeded in making

thê expected impact.

King, at the end, repeated his challenge to the Director

come Iorth with evidence to supporthis charge.

NOS: CAR (4) p

not for dissemi-

prosecrings

by

corized

person

Stold Pinn

1964

NN 55012 DooId: 32989601

Page 85

EX, 101

---

## Page 86

OPTIONAL FORM MO, 10

S610-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

ORA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES Gri

NMENT

Memorandum

—TO

FROM

Viper

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoachi

Evans -

Gale -

Hosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

HR. A. H. BELMONT

DATE: April 23, 1964

1-Mr.

Belmont

MR. #. C. SuLt

1-Hr.

Mohr

1-Mr.

Sullivan

3

DeLoach

COLMUNIST PARTY, USA

1-lix. J. A. Sizoo

NEGRO QUESTION

1-21r...

COLMUNIST • INFLUENCE IN

Baungardner

RACIAL MATTERS

1-Ur. Gurley

1-Ar. Phillips

INTERNAL SECURITY - COMMUNIST

San Francisco Office, called at 5:25 p.u. today (4/23/31)

Assistant Special Agent in Charge Paul O'Connell,! Ml

and dictated the substance of liartin luther King's statenent

issued to the press this afternoon (4/23) at the International i

Airport in San Francisco.

The statement itself, with further

details, is being sent in tonight to the Bureau.

The statenent, as dictated over the phone, is

set

forts below:

Statenent of Reverend Martin Luther King, President,

Southern Christian Leadership Conference

(SCLC),

Atlanta, in Response to Mr. J. Edgar Hoover's Charge

that Communists Had Infiltrated the Civil Rights

lovement.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

RI

UNCLASSIFIER

HERÉIN IS

SDATEJ:BY

It is very unfortunate that ur. J. Edgar Hoover, in his

claim of alleged communist infiltration in the civil rights

movement, has allowed himself

to aid and abet the salacious

, i claims of southern racists and the extreme right-wing

•elements. I hove this is not a reflection of a tragic

drift toward the renaissance of McCarthyism that so

I terribly blighted the life and health of our nation.

The more significant truth is the amazing lack of success

* that communism has met in attracting the Negro, who

-easily might be tempted to turn to some other disciple to

gain respite from his desperate plight.

The issue of connunist infiltration in the civil rights

movement is not new.

I have dwelt with it time and time

again.

In fact, one had good reason to believe it was

given a decent burial when Attorney General Robert F.

Kennedy answered Senator Maroney's inquiry

• to the FBI

Her 1317

WCS: LL

REG. 17.

The document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

ration origide your Committer.

lis use is li

20 Spore did the content me no el astoried person

nil wuhout the cogress approval of the rsI.

79450

5 1964

it itin

NW 55012" Docid: 32989601 Page 86

---

## Page 87

.-..

MEMORANDUM TO MR. BELMONT FROM MP. W. C. SULLIVAN

Re: CP, USA; NEGRO QUESTION;

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS - C.

on this question last summer: "It is natural and inevitable

that communists have made efforts to infiltrate the civil

rights movement and to exploit the current racial situation.

In view of the real injustices that exist and the resentments

against them, these efforts have been remarkably unsuccessful."

From my own experience in the civil rights movement, this

observation by the head of the Department of Justice is,

indeed, true and it should be paid heed by those who

periodically raise this issue.

One may ask, why is this

dead issue being resurrected at this tine?

why is this

issue being used

now to smear and attack the civil rights

movement and the

'e in the SCLC adbere to our policy:

he do rot accept in leaderstio or authoritative places or

at sialt

leveis ronership or the civice of cor-ini-is.

je corider such cavors ancortatitie vith our creco ard

jun strairie cacà uay is to achieve tis trerican

arora; a corcept mica

1s alien to those no espouse the

concept of ice Communist Party.

He challenge all

who raise the "red" issue, whether they be

newspaper columnists or the head of the FBI himself -- to come

forward and provide real evidence which contradicts this stand

of the SCLC.

He are confident that this cannot be done.

We at the SCLC must be judged by our record. I stand fully

forthrightly behind the action taken by myself in my 10

years of civil

rights activity and of the SCLC which I have

been privileged to lead since its inception in 1957. No

action, no deeds, no statement requires repudiation as being

inconsistent with our struggle to achieve an America free

of segregation through nonviolent persuasion and direct action.

He will continue to be vigilant against communist infiltration,

but we will also serve notice that we will continue to

resolutely wage the struggle for the full emancipation of the

We will not allow ourselves to be diverted.

Hoe 2120 Bastare block ot to gait our rants or

confuse our supporters. This resolution we make, ever

mindful that every effort is being made by the racists and the

Birchites to sow dissention and

confusion to bring about the

defeat of the pending civil rights legislation.

- 2 -

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 87

---

## Page 88

MEMORANDUM TO MR. BELMONT FROM MR. W. C. SULLIVAN

Re:

CP, USA; NEGRO QUESTION;

COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS; IS - C.

We affirm thai SCLC is unalterably opposed to the misguided

philosophy of comnunism.

It is based on unethical

relativisi, a metapbysical totalitarianism, and the denial

of human freedom, which we could never accept.

It is difficult to accept the word of the FBI on communist

infiltration in the civil rights movement, when they have

been so completely ineffectual in resolving the continued

mayhem and brutality inflicted upon the legro in the deep

south. It would be encouraging to us if Ir. Hoover

and the FBI would be as diligent in apprehending those

responsible for bombing churches and killing little

children as they are in seering out alleged cormunist

infiltration in the civil rights novement.

The Donestic Intelligence Division is already worring

on material which can be used to refuie muat

Fing sas said.

This is

being pushed extremely hard and nil be given to the

Director promptly for his consideration.

RECOLMENDATION:

For information.

3

-

55072D0676+32989602ge =

---

## Page 89

4-528

62-116-395-11984

CHANGED TO

62-116464-312

MAR 1 0 1976

come and

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NH 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 89

---

## Page 90

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

ATy 10.2 Ebittom

GSA FPAIR 141 CFRU 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GU

VERNMENT

Memorandum

:

Mr. Walsh

: S. R. Burns 2?

TESTIMONY BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

BEFORE THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

DATE: 11/26/75

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

• Dap. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

Comp. System

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval. _

Spec. Inv. —

Training -

Tolephone Rm. -

Diroctor Sec'y_

Reference is made to memorandum, Mr. Adams from Legal

Counsel, dated 11/24/75, which requested general input from all divisions

and specific input from certain divisions by COB 11/28/75 relative to the

preparation of a Briefing Book for the use of the Attorney General on the

occasion of his appearance before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence

Activities..

Attached hereto are inserts responsive to referenced memorandum

representing the coordinated efforts of the Inspection and Administrative

Divisions.

waterio

RECOMMENDATION:

That this matter be referred to Legal Counsel Division for

inclusion of attachments in the Briefing Book being prepared.

REG 8

1196X

7 DEC 30 1975

1 - Mr. Bassett

Enclosures

BWR:aga

(2)

ÄST, INFORMATION CONTADIE

FORDIN, IS 41

LASSIEN

MDR-166

1+101119

17 9 JAN

7 1976

law 55008-10DocId: 32989601

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

12.5.75

---

## Page 91

TO

:

OPTIONAL Fume tO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOWERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Morgui

DATE: 11-26-75

FROM

SUBJECT:

H. R.

Hauer!

TESTIMONY BY THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

BEFORE THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Isst. Dir.

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspection -

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Plan. & Eval, f

Spoc. Inv. #

Training -

Legal Coun.

Memo from Legal Counsel to J. B. Adams of 11-24-75 captioned as

above, advised Attorney General Levi is scheduled for an appearance before

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities and a request has been

received from the Department for the Bureau to provide material which will

be used in the preparation of a briefing book for Mr. Levi's testimony.

One of the areas specifically mentioned as being of interest and

regarding which information from the Bureau is sought concerns the "Official

and Confidential" (OC) files. Referenced memo requested material be submitted

to the Office of Congressional Affairs by close of business Friday, 11-28-75.

Director Hoover's OC files.

Attached hereto is an insert setting forth data regarding formey

RECOMMENDATION:

Refer to Legal Counsel Division

REG-30

+2-116 353-1196

7.

DEC 16 1975

HeSterda

Enclosure

HRH:bpr

(4)

ALT, INFORIATION CONTATNED

MOR-l

COMM. SECT:

Ack let 10

Enclosure detachird

AC, 12-3-75

5tx

12-3-35

pro:org

HE COUNSEL

8 4 DEG 1 9 1975

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 91

---

## Page 92

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1-Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - MI. W.

R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

November 24, 1975

1 - Mr. J. T. Aldhizer

5x154/53/11

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENGE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated November 7,

1975, containing requests for materials concerning Martin

Luther King,

JI., and FBI memorandum dated November 17, 1975,

which turnished

a partial response to requests in referenced

SSC letter.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

SSC is an original of a memorandum to supplement information

supplied the SSC in referenced FBi memorandum.

Thîs material

is in response to Items 3 and 4 of referenced SSC letter.

Also enclosed for your records is a copy of the

memorandum which is being delivered to you with a set of the

materials which are being delivered to the SSC.

Enclosures (2)

62-116395

1 - The Deputy Attorney General

REC-30

Attention:

Michael E. Shaheen, JI.

Special Counsel for

A-ENCLOSURE

intell ence coordination 2-1/6315-1195

JA:adn ENCLOSUNG /TAGHED

112 DEC 19 1975

Assoc. Bir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Pian. & EVeLI INFORMAITON CONTAINED

Spec. Inv. ITERHIN IS UNCLASSIELH

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

NOTE:

MONKUROS

A copy of the SSC letter 11/7/75, is attached

file copy of enclosed letterhead memorandum.

Exact copies of

the materials being furnished are maintained in the office of

the SENSTUDY 75 Project.

Arrangements have been made for a

representative of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the

attached memorandum as well

as the materials being provided to

the SSC.

word li

MAIL, ROOM L

30089601

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 92

15.76

DIA 1013 2N

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 93

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1-Mr.

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

- Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. J. T. Aldhizer

November 24, 1975

U, S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSG letter dated November 7,

1975, containing requests for materials concerning hartin

Luther King, Jr,, and FBi memorandum dated November 11, 19/5,

which furnished

a partial response to requests in referenced

SSC letter.

The purpose of this nemorandum is to effect delivery

to the SSC of information and material to supplement that

previously furnished the SSC by referenced FBI memorandu in

response to Items 3 and 4 of SSC letter dated Novenber 7, 1975.

To explain way supplemental data is being submitted the

following is noted.

The suC was previously urnished a Bureau menorancum

Page two, paragraph one of this memyrandun indicated the

Director earlier, in a menorandum dated November 41, 1964,

disapproved a proposal for two representatives of the Baptist

World Alliance

(Ring) matter, "to' "listen to sources we have concerning this

SSC letter dated November 7, 1975, Items 3 and i,

requested this November 27, 1964, memorandum and all other

materials reflecting proposals, discussions, decisions or

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

pertaining to King.

Dep. AD inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

The only menorandum located in logical FBI Head-

Admin. _

quarters

files bearing the November 27, 1964, date was a

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

memorandum from C. D. Deloach to It. Mohr captioned "Roy

Files & Com.-

Wilkins, Executive Secretary,

National. Association for the

Gen. Inv. -

Advancement of Golored People (NAGE) Convention,

Ident.

Appointment

Inspection

ALI, INFORMATION CONTAINBO

Intell.

HERHIN IS LUCLASSISU

Laboratory

-1163955

Plan. & Eval. u

Spoc. Inv. -

(8)

AND ONE TO AG

1495

moR-14

Training -

This document is prepared in response to your request

and as not for dussemi-

Legal Coun. -

nation outside your Committee.

Its wee is hinted to official proceedugs by

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y _

MAIL roOM your Cann

nel without fre

vid the

content mos not be disclosed to unuuthorized person-

express EuckAs

the FBI.

NN 55012 DocId: 32989601

11%

---

## Page 94

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

November 27, 1964, FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. G."

(copy delivered with this memorandum. ) Since this memor

andum makes no references to

"listen to sources,

i.e.

playing tapes regarding Ning, It appeared this was not the

memorandun in question and the SSC was so advised in

referenced Bureau cormunication together with the fact the

desired November 27, 1964, memorandum could not be located.

subsequent to submission of referenced FBI memorandum

and during review of the personal files of W. G. Sullivan,

memorandum from J. A. Sizoo to Mr. Sullivan dated December 1,

1964, captioned

"Martin Luther King: JE,,

" was discovered.

of this memorandum is being delivered with this memorandum,

and it is noted there is no indication on this memorandum that

it was made part of an official FBI file.

Paragraph one of

this memorandum refers to the Deloach to

• Mohr memorandum of

November 27, 1964,

concerning the

As references

the proposed playing of a King tape (paragraph four) ase

crossed out, it is presumed that no tapes were actually played.

This is further substantiated by the M. A. Jones memorandum

of December 8, 1964, in which reference is made to the Director's

disapproval of a proposal to arrange for otficials of the

Baptist orld Alliance to listen to our sources.

No copy of

the aforementioned "informal memo" was located in a search of

logical FBI files.

Therefore, with the exception of the above, FBIHQ

personnel handling SSE requests for King material restate that,

to their knowledge, no other materials are belleved to exist

in the Ring and related files which indicate proposals, dis-

cussions, decisions or accomplishments pertaining to permitting

anyone outside the FBI to

"Listen to sources" pertaining to

King.

I - The Attorney General

-2=

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 94

---

## Page 95

EMMANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CILAIAMAN

SENING, TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAINMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MiCH.

HOWVAND H. BAKF.R, JR., TENN.

DANNY GOLOWATER, AHIZ.

WALTER E-HUDOLESTON, KY.

CHAHLES MCC. MATHIAS, JA,, JA,,11D.

PATHAT MOHGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

DARY MART, COLO.

WILLiAM G, MILLER, STAR DIMECTOR

PREDERICK A. O. SCHWANZ, JH., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS H. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

¿Inited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO 5. HES, 21, ISTH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

November 7, 1975

MiChael E. Shaheen, JI., Esq.

Office of Deputy Attorney General

Room 4313

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

Attached is a document request with respect

to the King matter.

In view of the fact that public hearings on

this case are now scheäuled for the week of November 17,

I would appreciate receiving the materials identified on

the attached list, as well as others still outstanding

which pertain to the King case, by Friday, November 7,

1975.

Sincerely,

CDAtE

ins

NuT-Left:

Jonn I. Elliti

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

JTA:a

41115

RECHIVED

NOV 7

19/5

11: 30 p.7.

NIN 550180

DocId- 32989601

Page

95

ÁIT INFORNATION CONTAINED

ENCLOSURE,

MoR-Ib

62 116-395-1195

---

## Page 96

DOCUMENT REQUEST - November 7, 1975

1. All materials contained in the files of William C.

Sullivan which pertain to Martin Luther King,

the SCLC, which have not been previously made available

and/or

to the Committee.

(Except for any portions containing

transcripts or summaries

or tapes of electronic surveil-

lances of King.)

2. All memoranda and any other materials reflecting

conversations between Ir. Evans and (a) Attorney General

Kennedy and/or (b) Assistant Attorney General Marshall,

pertaining to Martin Luther King and/or the Southern

Christian Leadership Conterence.

3. The memorandum dated 11/27/64 which is referred to

in the first paragrash of the second page of the memorandum

from M. A. Jones

to Mr. DeLoach, dated 14/8/64, captioned

"Martin Luther King, Jr., Possible Appearance belore

Baptist World Alliance Congress in June, 1965, Miami Beach,

Florida." • (Serial No. 624)

4. All memoranda and any other materials reflecting pro-

posals, discussions, decisions, or accomplishments

to sources Permitting anyone outside the FBI to "listen

pertaining to Martin Luther King, Jr.

0 .

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 96

---

## Page 97

m..-

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

_Senate Select Committee

OLTR

DELHM Memo Report dated 11/24/75

Captior of Document: U.S. SENATE SELECT COMTE TO STDE

GOVMNT OP W/RESPCT TO INTEL ACTVTS. Ref SSC "let

rats for info re Martin Luther King

, Originating Office:

FBI

Hit men

11/28/75

BSSIO

*=***--

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 97

ENCLOSURE 62-11603515 = 1195

---

## Page 98

...

TO :

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

I. HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term.

If a document was made available

for review

not transmitted, so note..

X DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

I TESTIMONY

OTHER

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

2. DATE PROVIDED

11/24/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term;

add specific names if appropriate)

4.

SSC

"HSC

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data for documents; live name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee,

testifier and subject)

Mezorandun and enclosures

5. Wise spade verbal request

and item

wise

state

request

an ame mitative, suppose come request, other.

initiative,

SSC lotter 11/7/75 items 3 and 4

6. CLASSIFICATION O

INFORMATION (ente

Codeword 7S or

U

7. KEYd order fenterote papropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

Information handling

Intelligence collection

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completiné this item)

Interinls relating to Martin luther King, Jr.

Since initial

subnission of request odditional information has bean located

during a roviow of the personal files of U.C. Bullivan; namely,

• menorandus Fron J.1. Sizoo to lir. Sullivan dated 12/1/64, this

menorandun refers to the De Loach to Mohr memorandum of 11/27/64,

concerning the Interview of Roy Wilkins and to an attached

"infornal menorancun" of SulliVaLT INFORMATON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

62-116395

FMK: Fmk

(4)

MOR-)6

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAI, COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

CLASSIFY AS

APPROPRIATE

379| (6-751

55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 38

---

## Page 99

INSTRUCTIONS

• True or peat early da sink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

ТЫ 55019

DocId: 32989601

Page 99

---

## Page 100

@ TIONA: FORM NO. 10

NOSIE? EDITION

OS: GEI. BEG. 10.27

s910-106

UNITED. STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorindum

Holson

Belmontr

Mohr -

De Loach -

Cosper -

Callahan -

Evans

.., Gale-

•Mr. Mohr

DATE: November 27, 1964

FROM

:C. D. DeLoach

troter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJF r: ROY WILKINS

EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

NATIONAE ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT

OF COLORED PEOPLE (NAACP)

APPOINTMENT 11/27/64

FBI HEADQUARTERS Is document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

ration outside nour Committee.

Roy Wilkins, Executive Secretary,

Advancement of Colored People, called me from New York at 12:55 p.m. today. Fel

stated that he had to fly down to Washington to see me immediately. He asked if I

had any available time: He apologized for attempting to arrange an appointment on what

he tormed a "holiday weekeng,": I told him the "holiday weekend" made no difference

to us and that despite his unwarranted statements concerning the Director and the Fbi,

I would sit down and talk to him.

: Wilkins arrived at 4:00 p.m. He stated that he was greatly concerned.

\ He made reference to the Director's Loyola speech last Tuesday, 11/24/64, in which

the Director had made reference to "sexual degenerates" in pressure groups. Wilkins

stated he personally knew about whom the Director was talking; although many other

Negroes did not know. Wilkins added that he had received at least three newspaper

inquiries during the past two days from individuals inquiring as to whether King was a

Isexual degenerate or not.

Wilkins told me that he personally did not mind seeing King ruined. He

stated the important part of the matter, however, was the fact that if King was ruined =

the entire civil rights movement would be ruined. Wilkins stated that he personally =

knew that King was a 'liar" and that he had little respect for him. He quoted an exampl

of his wife stating last night at a Thanksgiving dinner with friends, upon being asked it

she knew of the terrible things that "Edgar Hoover had said about Reverend King being:

a liar." Mrs. Wilkins replied, "This doesn't surprise me because King is a liar."

Wilkins. continued that while King is no good, his ruination will spell the downfall of the

entire civil rights movement.

62-78270-165

Wilkins told me that despite the truthüness of the sexual degenerate

allegations and communist allegations against King, many of his Negro associates.

GE Botran

- Mis Rosen -

1 - Mr. Jones

NN 55012

(7)

DocId: 32989601

Page 100

Enclosure

CC:

ALL AT CAMATION CONTAINED

• SENT

HEREIN IS UICLASDLEIN

" PADR-14

O DIR. TOLSON

CONTINUED-OVER

---

## Page 101

'DeLoach to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

FBI Headquarter's, Washington, D. C.

would jump to the defensive and defend King. On the other hand, however, many of the

white people who believe in the civil righis movement and who yearly contribute from

$500 to $50, 000 ic this movement will immediately cease their financial support.

Wilkins added that the loss of financial support will be tremendous, however; the loss of

faith in King by millions of Americans would be even vorse. He stated the combination

of the two would, of course, halt any further progress of the civil rights movement.

Wilkins told me that he and a number of the Negro leaders had attempted

several months ago to get King to accept the presidency of a small college. He stated

King had refused to do this because he was accustomed to the hypocrisy of adulation

and to the money that was pouring in to him. He stated that King for some time now has:

received from $500 to a $1, 000 per speech on the lecture circuit. He mentioned that

King receives considerable support from wealthy Negro and white people alike. He

stated that obviously the best thing that the Negro leaders could do now would be to get

King to accept a position as Pastor of a large Negro church and thereby retire forever

as a leader of the Negroes.

Wilkins stressed the fact that he was not seeing me as an emissary. He.

stated he had some influence on King but not much. He added that there were others

within his movement who had greater influence and that perhaps together some pressure

could be brought on King. Wilkins then added that he hoped that the FBI would not

expose King before something could be done.

I interrupted Wilkins at this point. I told him that the Director, of

course, did not have in mind the destruction of the civil rights movement'as a whole.

I told him the Director sympathized with the civil rights movement as exemplified by the

Director's supervision of the FBI's many brilliant accomplishments in this field. I

added, however, that we deeply and bitterly resented the lies and falsehoods told by

King and that if King wanted war we certainly would give it to him. Wilkins shook his

head and stated there was no doubt in his mind as to which side would lose if the FBI

really came out with all of its ammunition against King. I told him the ammunition

was plentiful and that while we were not responsible for the many rumors being initiated

against King, we had heard of these rumors and were certainly in a position to

substantiate them.

I told Wilkins that inasmuch as he was attempting to hold out the feather

of peace he should know a few positive facts of life. He asked what I meant. I toid

him my point was that he was attempting to prevent the FBI from exposing King, yet

certain highly-placed informants of ours had tipped us off to absolutely reliable infor-

mation that King had organized a bitter crusade against the Director and the FBI. I

told Wilkins these long-standing and well placed informants had advised us that King

-2 -

CONTINUED-OVER

NN-13012 Da010: 32989601

Page 101

---

## Page 102

' DeLoach to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

had contacted people in various parts of the United States to get them to send telegrams

to the President, the Attorney General, and the FBI asking for Mr. Hoover's retire-

ment or resignation. I told Wilkins that King had aiso encouraged telegrams to be

sent advising the FBI of laxness in the investigation of civil rights matters.

I asked

Wilkins how in the hell could he expect the FBI to believe his offers of friendship and

request for peace when King was at this time attempting to ruin us. Wilkins merely

hung his head and stated he had no idea that King was carrying on such a campaign.

He

stated that this upset him greatly and made him all the more determined to initiate

action to remove King as soon as possible.

Wilkins stated that he had long noted King's sympathy toward the

| communist movement. He told me this obviously stemmed from Stanley Levinson's

influence on King. Wilkins diverted from the subject of the conversation to spend some

time in explaining that he had also noted communist influence in the civil rights move-

ment in Mississippi.

He stated that the cry of "Down with the Proletariat" was getting

- Lübe the battecry of thi militant Nogroco in Mississippi aud Alabama.. He mentioned

the same thing was true with respect to Negro allegations of laxness on the part of the

FBI. He mentioned that the Negroes have been led by King and Bayard Rustin to

believe that the FBI could do nothing right; consequently, FBI solution of civil rights

cases made little impression upon some Negroes in the civil rights movement.

Wilkins stated he was wrong in his criticism of the Director. He added

I that he was attempting to accomplish, in a mild manner, a division between the battle

of the Director and King and any phases of the battle which would reflect upon the civil

rights movement. He stated he has a hard time controlling his 32-man Board of

Directors, particularly since King is a member of this board. He then added, "We're

hurting, " and something must be done.

Wilkins told me that he will be lecturing in California most all of next

week. He stated that before he leaves for the coast he will attempt to see King, along

with other Negro leaders, and tell King that he can't possibly win in any battle with the

FBI and that the best thing for him to do is to retire from public life. He stated he

may not have any success in this regard, however, that he is convinced that the FBI

can easily ruin King overnight, therefore, for the good of the civil rights cause King

should make definite plans to leave public life and merely be Pastor of a Negro church

in the future. I told Wilkins this, of course, was up to him; however, I wanted to

reiterate once again most strongly, that if King wanted war we were prepared io give

- 3 -

CONTINUED-OVER

NIX

55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 102

---

## Page 103

DeLoach to Mohr Memo, 11/27/64

Re: Roy Wilkins, Appointment 11/27/64

FBI Headquarters, Washington, D. C.

it to him and let the chips fall where they may. Wilkins stated this would be most

disasterous, particularly to the Negro movement and that he hoped this would never

come about.

I told him that the monkey was ot his back and that of the other. Negro

leaders. He stated he realized this. We then shook hands and he left to return to

New York.

ACTION:

It is suggested that the attached letter be sent to the President in

connection with the above conversation.

07.

• .

- 4c

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 103

---

## Page 104

RS: 7.1026-

24r.

JFK Law 10(a)1

enclosures

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Its use is limite? to offüial proceedings by

ALT INFORMATION CONTATVIND

(CONTINUED - OVER)

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 104

---

## Page 105

Memo to Mr. Sullivan

RI: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

basis, information concerning King which would convince. them of

the danger of king to the over-all civil rights movement. Wilkins

is already well aware of this. This group should include such

leadership as would be capable of removing King from the scene

It they, of their own volition, decided this was the thing to do

after such a briefing. The group snould include strong enough men

to control a man like James Farmer and make him see the light of

day.

This night have the effect of increasing the stature of Roy

Wilkins, who is a capable person and is ambitious.

There are refinements which, of course, could be added

to the above which is set forth in outline form for possible

consideratior.

- 2 -

_ NW 55012. DocId: 33989601

Page 105

---

## Page 106

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. J.

dams

: Legal

ounsel a

1

1

1

-

Mr. Mintz

• Mr. Wannall

- Mr. Cregar

1 - Mr. Hotis

DATE: 12/8/75

1 - Mr. Daly

Admin. y

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspecti

Intell.

egal Coi

SENSTUDY. 75

Spec. Inv!-

Training

Telephone Rm. _

Director Soc'y -

On 12/8/75, Paul Wallach, Senate Select Committee

Staff Member, requested that former Special Agent Wallace R.

Knowledge on Cuban groups in se Dallaserved between mid-1963

until the end of 1963.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

(1) That former Special Agent Wallace R. Heitman be

released from any existing employment agreement for purposes of

interview by the Senate Select Comnittee.

(2). That the Intelligence Division determine the

whereabouts. of former Special Agent Heitman and inform him that

he may be contacted by the Senate Select Committee for purposes

of interview.

(3) That the Legal Counsel Division orally advise

the Senate Select Committee of the whereabouts of former Special

Agent Heitman.

EX-115

REC-58

15aprs

pus

62-116310-1194

DEC 16 1975

1 - Personnel File - Wallace R. Heitman

lad :")

ATT, INFORVATION CONTAINED

BRAIN IS UNCUASSIAY

84

D:

112 3 1975

NN 500020DocId: 32989601°

Buy U.s. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Page

---

## Page 107

2 - Mr.

A. Mintz

11

-

• U. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr.

1. Wannall

1 - Mr.

W.

"0. Cregar

1 - Mr. I. E. Burns, JI.

The Atté

Iney General

Director,

FBI

U.S

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

INTELZIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

December 8, 1975

Reference is made to the letter from the SSC

dated November 7, 1975; to prior correspondence regarding

the Joseph Kraft matter, to wit, FBI letters to the Attorney

General, June 20, 1975, September 2, 1975, and October 7, 1975,

enclosing memoranda to

the ssc also dated June 20, 1975,

September 2, 1975, and October 7, 1975, respectively; and tol

letter from the SSC dated July 28, 1975, and appendices theret

requesting documents and certain other information from the

Referenced November 7, 1975, SCC Letter made a

specitic request for certain serials,

with enclosures and

attachments, contained in the krall fila,

nIc-st

1193X

An existing agreement dated May 2, 1975, between

the Attorney General and Mr. Kraft affords special treatment

to portions of the material contained in the Kraft file.

number of the requested serials fall within the purview of

such agreement and have been sealed while others, to with

serials 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, and 21, Of FBI file 65-75629 do not

and may therefore be furnished to the sSC.

7 JAN 22 1976

It is requested that the Attorney General consider

approving FBI access

to the sealed Kraft material' in order

that the November 7, 1975, SSC request may be fully handled.

CLOS

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHED"

The original of a memorandum along with the

Assoc. shir. -

above-enumerated serials are being submitted herewith

Dep. ADAm- for your approval and forwarding to the Committee in

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Wir.:

partial response to the Committee's request in this matter.

Admin. _

A response to the SSC regarding the renainder of the

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs —

requested material is being held in abeyance pending

Files & Com. -

receipt of your decision in this matter.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection.

Intell.

Laboratory

TEB: eme!""

(9)

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. _

Training -

ATI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

Legol Coun. _

FARSE BE CLASSIER

Telephone Rm. -

DATEILI

2200 BYSP2 ALMI

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM C

Sti

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

I SiW4S6AN 206c907f 2989601

Page 107

---

## Page 108

The Attorney General

A copy of this memorandum is being furnished

for your records along with a set of the materials to

be considored for forwarding to the SSC. Also forwarded here-

with for your retention and infornation is an excised copy

of Serial 1 to which the SSC staff will be granted access, i£

they so dosire, at a later date.

Enclosures (3)

62-116395

I ~ The Deputy Attorney General

Attention: Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence

Coordination

NW 55012 DogJdj32989601

_ Page 108

---

## Page 109

2 - Mr.

A. Mintz

11 -

• J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

I - ME. W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. I. E. Burns, JI.

62-116395

December 8, 1975

Your request and is not for dissemi-

Tate in oftnt proccedings by

unauthorized person

may not be disclosed io

of the FBI

"Come"'' is.

express approval

U. S. SENATE SELECI COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELIIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Re: SUPERSEDING REQUEST

FOR FBI MATERIALS

Reference is made to SSC letter to the Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Office of the

Deputy Attorney General, dated July 28, 1975, with

appendices attached thereto, requesting certain documents

and other information from the FBI; to the Attorney General's

letter to the SSC dated July 29, 1975; to memoranda

to the SSC dated June 20, 1975, September 2,

1975, and

October 7, 1975, concerning other responses

in the Joseph

Kraft matter; and to SSC letter to the Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination, Office of the Deputy Attorney

General, dated November 7, 1975.

Pursuant to the request in the referenced SSC

letter dated November 7, 1975, for delivery of specified

serials in the Joseph Kraft file, we are delivering with

this memorandum Xeroxes of

serials 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, and 21,

Of FBI file 65-75629. Serial 1 of such file was also requested;

however, is not being furnished herewith since it neither

mentions Joseph Kraft nor does it have any apparent relation

nation

your Coca

without

to the Kraft matter.

Its inclusion in the Kraft file appears

to have resulted from a clerical error in serialization.

Access to such serial will be afforded for purposes of verifi-

nel

cation should the SSC staff so desire.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

The remaining serials which were requested in

Deg. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

referenced November 7, 1975, SSC letter,

have previously been

Admin..

sealed in accordance

with the May 2, 1975, agreement between

Comp. Syst. _

Joseph Kraft and the Attorney General. Such serials were

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

previously determined to be covered by the agreement insofar

Gen. Inv. _

as they constituted, summarized, or described the contents

Ident..

Inspection =

Intell.

Joseph Kraft.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. _

Training -

TEB: emC DECLASSIETED, BI

(9)

Legal Coun. _

got 112

RODRE INUE DUPE

Telephone Rm. - ORIGINAL

Director Sec'y _

AND

ONE

COPY

_AG

MAIL, ROOM I

TELET COUNTO MOX-lL

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Pad

09

---

## Page 110

Re: U. S. Senate Select Committee to

Study Governmental Operacions with

Respeot to Intelligenco Aotivities (SSC)

Application has been made by the IRI to the

Attorney General requesting that the Attorney Coneral consider

approving IlI access to the sealed iraft material in connection

with the

november 7, 1975, roquost.

of further developnents in this matter.

on in this mattor.

the

SSC vill be advisca

Also forwarded herewith for your ready

reference

is a copy of the May 2, 1975, agreoment between It. Kraft

and the Attoimey General.

I - The Attorney Genocal

NOTE:

The subject of Se Esc inquiry Joseph frafir

is the well-known newspaper columnist.

review of the

Kraft file reveals that the French Security Service, the

DSI, conducted a microphone surveillance on Kraft's

room for approximately one week during a 1969 visit by

Kraft to Paris. Such coverage was effected through the

urging of W. C. Sullivan, former FBI Assistant to the Director,

who traveled to France

at such time, apparently at the direc

tion of deceased FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover.

Details

of the above coverage have appeared in the media apparently

as a result of leaks within the administration of former

President Nixon.

Kraft himself testified in detail 5/10/74,

regarding this matier before the United States Senate Sub-

committee on Administrative Practice and Procedure, the

Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights of the Committee on

the Judiciary, and the Subcommittee on Surveillance of the

to earlier requests of the SSC in the nemoranda of 6/20/75,

9/2/15, and 10/1/75, wherein we advised that no authorization

per se could be located for the 1969 electronic surveillance

of Kraft during a visit to France and provided the SSC with

access to selected serials which provided a summary of the

Kraft material.

PRET

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE 3

-2-

1 NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Past 110

---

## Page 111

=..

Re:

U. S. Senate Select Committee to

Study Governmental Operations with

Respect to Intelligence Activities (SSC)

NOTE - CONTINUED

We previously reviewed the sealed portion of the

Kraft file under authority of the Attorney General, in

connection with our 9/2/75 response to the SSC; however,

the unsealed material was resealed following review.

it may be possible to interpret the previous authority to

open the sealed portion of the file as an implied authority

to reopen it in connection with this request, it is felt

that the more judicious procedure is to secure a new authority

from the AG as requested within. Serial l referred to in the

memorandum to the SSC was a personal note from Legat, Paris,

to Mr. Hoover and concerns reported adulterous behavior on

the part of Nicole Salinger, wife of Pierre Salinger, the

former Press Secretary to President Kennedy.

A copy of

the 11/7/75 SSC request is attached to the file copy of the

enclosed letterhead memorandum.

Exact copies of the materials

being furnished are maintained

in the office of the Senstudy 75

project.

Arrangements have been made for a representative

of the Legal Counsel Division to deliver the attached memo-

randum as well as the materials being provided to the sSC.

This note has

been classified "Secret" in order to protect

the confidentiality of our relationship with the French

Security Service, the disclosure of which could reasonably

be expected to result in serious damage to national security.

out oration nate on martex.

Indefinite.

-3-

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Paggn.111

---

## Page 112

* and

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee: .

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

• Memo

12/8/75

Captiosiof Document:

11/7/75 request - Joseph Kraft

Originating Office:

Delivered by: -

Received by:

59- Stasinos

-Date: - 1/13/76

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

MOR-16

NW 55012

DooId: 32989601

Page

---

## Page 113

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

FROM:

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index.

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1. HOW PROVIDED

for review

But heck ransopriate to note.)

If a document was made available

2' DOCUMENT |

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW |

TESTIMONY|

OTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

12/8/75

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term;

add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptiv

data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee, testifier and subject)

Memorandum and enciscures

5. IN RESPONSE TO

(list date

state verbal

request

an amo, mer alive, suppress formal request, other-

6. CLASSIFICATION OI

INFORMATION (ente:

codeword,

S. TS o

SSC letter 11/7/75

7. KEed unde fine rote paropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

Information handling

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Materials relating to Joseph Kraft.

62-116395

FMK: fink

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL, COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

mOR-14

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRiATE

379 | (6-75)

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 113

---

## Page 114

INSTRUCTIONS

•"."..

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entéred here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee,

etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

NW 550I2 DocId: 32989601

Page 114

---

## Page 115

Re: SSC request November 7, 1975.

For retention with yellow of

letter and LHM dated December 8, 1975,

concerning the Kraft matter.

AZI, IITRORMATION CONTAIITES

HIRELS IS FECLISWED

DATE 1L 20 20006% S02 Am. IME

moR-I4

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 115

---

## Page 116

SECRET

fam

Josegh Kraft

Leak of INfoRmatioN

ESPINaGE

Paris, France

March 13, 1969

/SENSITIVE

Dear Mr. Hoover:

JUNE

'FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE

I thought you might be interested in the following

information regarding Nicole Salinger, the French wife of

SOURCE

Pierre Salinger, the former press secretary to President

Kennedy.

N

.:.

Information has been received from an excellent

nel without

source, Who Is in a position to know, that she is the mistress

of Abdel. Kade? Ben Barka, the brother o1 Mohdi Ben Barka, who?

you may recall, was the victim of a kidnading and assassina-

tion which became a major scandal in France.

Mehal Ben Barka-

was a communist who was the opposition leader against the

Moroccan Sovernment. His kidnaping and assassination were

believed to have been politically inspired.

According to the source, the contacts between Mrs.

Salinger and Ben Barka are not difficult since Salinger has

aparoval of

rather recently formed international finance operation known

as Granco, which has its headquarters in Nassau, Baham.

;,Islands.

Our source advised that Nicole Salinger recently

arranged a rendezvous with Ben Barka, stating that her husband

was leaving that afternoon for London and would be gone for

e and the content may not be disclosed

nation portsi? lour Committee

Its use is

limited to

a couple of days.

This document is prepared in response to your request

Also, during the recent visit of President Nixon,

Barka attempted to learn minutes of

secret conversations

between Nixon and President De Gaulle through Nicole Salinger

who said she would

nore pEE 65-75427-1

The source of the above information is one Joseph

Mansfield.

a former Army Counterintelligence Coros agent, who

a contact of this office for many years.

He is

unauthor zed person-

offin mrocecar.ugs by

and is not for dissemi-

presently retired from the military service, has settled

down

in

the Paris area, and operates a private investijatin 5)

+575985337

NET RECORDED

DECLASSIFY CN: 25X_

moR-It

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

SECRET

5-755

TIL INFORMATIONG UNTAINED

HEREIN IS LNGLASSIFIED EXCEET

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Page 216

---

## Page 117

SECRETI

Lone of his part-time investigators is an agent of

see birection de la surveillance du Territoire French domestic

whose official assignment is to

appears that this individual is the source of the above infor-

mation and that it comes from an official technical surveil-

lance on Ben Baria.](5)

Of course, it is very unlikely that Nicole salinger

would be in a position to obtain any confidential information

regarding conversátions between De Gaulle and Nixon.

Mansfield requested that we be particularly careful

in handling this information and that neither he nor his source

be identified. In view of the delicate nature of the source,

it is being furnished only for your information since I

thought this may be of interest to you.

With kindest personal regards,

sincerely yours:

Norman W. Philcox

Mr. J. Edgar Hoover

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Ce :

Mr. William C. Sullivan

Assistant Director

U. Sral Bureau of Investigation

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Dear Bill -I don't That this canes

le disumnated torbout indryering

The source.

NN 55012 DooId: 32989601

---

## Page 118

CRET

DO

NOT

PILE

Mx. Hoover:

Joseph Kraft

June 30, 1969

JUNE

Instead of taking up your time giving you a vert

report, I will set out briefly the basic facts in this mr

relative to my European trip.

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad -

Mr. Felt -

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes,

Miss Cahdy:

First, I an sure you would want to know how very? very

willing and cooperative this high-ranking official was.

moment I arrived I called for an appointment with him and was

given it inmediately.

It was obvious he had to work me in before

others scheduled to see him because they were in his outer office

SENSITIVE when I went through. He was too gracious, however, to mention it:

TNATONENCE

Second, I presented directly the request

INTELLIGEN It on my reason to believe that this person could be in contact

and predicated

with the soviets and it was necessary to determine one way or

Giving it this predication I thought would make our

position much more valid and secure. He told me they would do

it for us without any hesitation.

Parentheticallys I might add

that such a cover is regarded as illegal: However,

he made no

mention of this and they do it all the time. He pointed out that

if this man is living at a hotel or an apartment where complicated

switchboards are involved,

there would be some technical problems.

I told him that I understood this. He assured me that if it is

technically possible to do it, it would be done and if it required

solving a problem, it would be

solved if at all possible.

Lum

Third, as it was necessary for this official to have

this man located, the situation analyzed, and the equipment put

in use, I decided not to stay for a day or so to get a sampling

of the product. If it could have been put on immediately,

of course, have stayed around a day to

see what it would be like.

fourth, I instructed our legat concerning the sensitivity

of this matter and made arrangements that the product can be so

• handled that the girls in his office will not know about it at all.

I also told him he was not, under any condition, to ever discuss

this with anyone back here at the Seat of Government. He is a

competent professional and can be relied upon in this matter.

DECLASSTETED BYSPALm. Imt

T

P

ECRET I

65-75629-2

N

O FILE

+575585-332

NATIONAL RECURETE ITORATIO NOT RECORDED

JUN 3 197311

Uncutionined Dis losure

JUN 1 3 1973

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 118

---

## Page 119

I OK

S

EXCRET

DO NO

T

FILI

Fifth, the material will be sent directly to me without

any mention of the individual's name. I will arrange securely

for the translation here and then get the material to you

immediately in order that you will be able to handle it directly

with the gentleman, to whom you alluded in our conversation.

Sixth, the high-ranking official with whom I dealt suggested

that we might want to give consideration at the end of this

operation to listening to the tape with one of his translators

to see if they had overlooked anything significant, which he

said could happen because they know nothing about this person's

background, contacts, etc.

he said that if it were possible he

would send the tape over here but this is not possible because

they have an unbreakable rule that the tape can't be taken out of

this clandestine central headquarters where the work is done and

if it were removed, it would cause considerable wonderment and

speculation. However, he said he could safely and securely have

me enter a portion of

this area to listen if I thought it necessary.

I told him this was a decision which could be faced after the

product was examined carefully and that then you would make the

decision.

Respectfully submitted,

*»

William C.

Sullivan

---- - --

DO NOT

PILE

- 2 -

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 119

---

## Page 120

6/30/69

СОЛЕ

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

fom

1-Liaison

TO LEGAT PARIS

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

JUNE

CATO.

PERSON IN QUESTION MAY BE IN CARE

OF WILLIAM STONEMAN, CARE

OF "CHICAGO DAILY NEWS" OFFICE, PARIS. ALSO HIS LOCATION MAY

BE KNOVN TO HAROLD KAPLAN, AMERICAN EMBASSY, PARIS. OF COURSE,

THESE TWO CANNOT BE ASKED ABOUT SUBJECT OF INQUIRY. INDIRECTLN

tine

THIS INFORMATION MAY GIVE LEAD, HANDLE WITH EXTREME CARE. CALE

W. C. SULLIVAN EARLY A.Ñ., JULY ONE NEXT RE THIS HATTER, BUT DO

NOT MENTION ABOVE NAMES.

fum

(4)

VIA TELETYPE

JUNG 0 1969

4.58

• NCIPHEREI

"ation netgin roper Carmittee.

Tin's document is prepared in response to your request and is not for diet ar

Its use is limitro tis

curlson.

e a I the condont may not be risclosed

offimal proceedings by

nel winithout, the express approval of the FBI .

va, undistiorized person

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Contad -

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

AIT IYPORMATION CONTAINED

HARIAN IS IECLASSIFIHD

Tavel -

Trotter.

T'ele. Room -

-JUN 13 1973/m

MOR-Il

Holmes -

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page

TYPE UNIT

120

65-75627-3

6575085333

NOT RECORDED

JUN 1 3. 1973

---

## Page 121

ECRET

DO NOT FILE

July 2, 1969

JANE

Mr. l'olson

Mr. De Loach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room,

Miss Holmos

Dear Mr. Hoover:

Joseph Kraft

I heard from Legat Philcox this morning.

In

regard to the man in Paris

in whom we are interested,

facts are these:

the

1) He registered at the hotel on June 29 and as

previously indicated plans to leave next Monday.

He has

no regular assignment in Paris and comes and goes throughout

Europe.

2) Because of the hotel he is staying in and the

elaborate switchboard, it is not possible to put a telephone

surveillance on his

room

extension.

3) I told Philcox to push the French and see if

we could get a microphone in his room.

This they are trying

take anyone at the hotel into confidence should it be necessary

The question was raised as to whether they should

in order to place the installation.

I said no do not take

anyone into confidence at the hotel.

I am folowing this matter very closely and you

will be kept advised.

Respectfully submitted,

Billion.

u1 liva

NATIONAL SATURITY INFORMATION

Usouthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

on il

6515629-6

6575925-336

NOT RECORDED

JUN 1 3 1973

DO NOT FILE

ECRET

SUN C3.1973/m

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page 121

---

## Page 122

lom

THE SACRET

DO NOT FILE

SECRET

July 3, 1969

JUNE

Dear Mc. Hoover:

Joseph Kraft

This is to advise you that the French

have overcome some very difficult operational

problems and have installed a microphone in this

fellow's room.

As I mentioned yesterday the

elaborate switchboard prevents using a telephone

surveillance.

Just as soon as they get an adequate

product, it will be sent into me immediately and

I will handle the translation under very secure

conditions.

You will kept promptly advised of

developments.

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel .

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

м ставиці

farm

Respectfully submitted,

Bile sullur

W. C. Sullivan

CLASSIFIED BYSPS) A Lm. uMf

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X b

moR-ll

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subjeet to Criminal Sanctions

ICREIN 15 UNCLASSIFICD EXCEP

ILL INFORMATION CONTAINED CECO

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

JUN

13 1973ym

NW 550

12

DocId: 32989601 Page 122

65-756294

6575085337

KOT RECORDED

JUN 1 3 1973

RET

---

## Page 123

I SEREI

DO NOT FILE

MORE

Joseph

Kraft

July 7, 1969

Dear Mi. Hoover:

JUVE

In regard to the sensitive coverage in

Paris, I have followed this throughout the week-

end with our Legat. There is nothing direct we

can say on the telephone, but by double-talking

we can comnunicate. (s

The French were successful in installing

the microphone and they have the product, the Legat

said, extending to the time of this man's departure

from Paris.

He was to leave either last night or

this norning (5)

The tape is on its way to me and should

larrive tomorrow.

I will have it immediately and

very securely translated and the results given you.

The Legat was able to say one thing and that is

that this person has been in touch with the Soviets

in Paris presumably in connection with his coming

Ivisit to Russia.

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach --

Mr. Mohr -

Mr. Bishop-

Mr. Casper -

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad -

Mr. Felt -

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

SENSITIVE

FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE

OPERATION

1am

Respectfully submitted,

elusitivan

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Uneuthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHGWN OTNERWISE.

CLASSIFIED BYSP ALm It

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

moR-ll

JUN 1 3 1973/91

NW

55012

DocId: 32989601

Pagra, 123

I OXP

DO NOT FILE

SE

CRET

65-756297-8

6575095-338

NOT RECORDED

JUN 1 3 1973

---

## Page 124

1-Originat

1-yellow

Mr. Tolson

Mr. De Loach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop -

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt -

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holma,

July 30,

1969

PERSONAL

Hr Jean Rochet

JUNE

SENSITIVE

Director

FOREIGN

INTELLIGENCE DE PariS S, France

Direction de la Surveillance du Hercitoixo

13 que des Saussaies

MUTANNENE AT TEETHER

Joseph Kraft

SOURCE

Dear Me. Rochet:

I wish tó allude to the occasion of the trip,

at my instructions, of Ar. Villiam C. Sullivan in the

nel without ihe

recent past.

Words are inadequate to express my appreciation

for the unprecedented and remarkably efficient assistante

which you rendered this Bureau.

Well do I realize the

obstacles which you had to overcome and the professionalism

and tenacity of purpose that were required in order to be

successiul in this effort.

May I, through you also express my deep appreciatione

to Mr. Desire Parente,

who I understand played a key role

in the effectiveness of this particular mission. It must

your Conmile and the content may not.

nation

This

outsidn, your Committse.

document is prepared in

be most reassuring to you to have such able men

about you.

tHaLFBI

Its use

You may be certain that I am most willing to

reciprocate your valuable assistance at any time in the

future.

with best wishes and kind regards,

Sincerely,

65-1562921

be disclosed is unantliorized

limited to

NOT RECORDED

JUN 1 3 1973

official proceedings by

response to your request and is not for dissemi-

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Boimes -

ILL-ENTORMATIOT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINTEI

DATE LAL200 BYSPOSAM CHE

Nel

WCS: m'ls

| (1-Legat, Paris, under separate cover)u:

JUN L3 1973/

SENT

FOR APPROTAL I

7-30-69

---

## Page 125

Office of thr Attormy General

Washington, I. C. 20530

May 2, 1975

Lloya N. Cutler,

Esquire

Wilmer, Cutier &

Pickering

1666 K Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20006

Dear Mi. Cutler:

Pursuant to our discussions concerning the disposition of

certain records relating to the surveillance activities

directed at your client, Mir. Joseph Kraft, the Department

is making the following

temporary arrangements:

1.

Pending further Departmental action relating

to the policies which will govern recosds of the

type invoivod in is. Krait's casa, all documents,

recordings, or other recoras of

any type in the

¡Department's custody or control which constitute,

summarize, or describe the contents of the over-

hearings obtained as unc result of any electzonic

surveillanse directed against ir. Kraft and men-

¡bers of his family will be placed under seal.

2.

As long as the items described above remain

under seal, no official or employee. of the Depart-

ment will have access to them for any purpose, and

no official or employee of the Depariment vill

allow any person outside of the Depaitment to have

any such access, except as described below.

The

nel vithout the

nation artsile 10'r

and the con "ny man"

Committer.

This document is prepared in response

only material referring to these items will be a

single index card needed to locate the sealad itens

The index card will bear only Mr. Kraft's name and

a file number.

• 3.

Should some future need which we do not now

foresee require any official or employee of the

Department to obtain or permit access to tha

aforesaid items, the decision on such access shall

be made personally by the Attorney General. The

Attorney Concral shall not grant any access without

notifying Mr. Kraft or his counsel in writing at

least ten

days prior thereto, and providing him or

anastiorizeit

officin?

marcerings by

and is not for dissemi-

HARMIT IS

IT FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

waL 2000

UNCE ACEURIED

avcel'a

-NW 55012DocId: 32989601

10777976

---

## Page 126

.:j.

- tre 45?

-=..

2=52:7

==3=

them an opportunity to discuss the matter per-

sonally with the Attorney General before the

grant is made.

The notice shall set forth the

date upon which access will be permitted if it is

granted, and the purpose for which and person by

whom access is sought.

The Attorney General will

personally inform Mr.

Kraft or his

counsel of a

decision to grant access is soon as practicable

äfter it is made, but in any event at least five

business days before access occurs.

4.

Although this arrangement is not intended to

constitute a permanent solution to the questions

you have raised concerning these documents, it

will not be rescinded or modified by the Attorney

General or his successors unless the Attorney Gen-

eral gives it.

Kraft or his counsel ten days'

prior notice and affords him or them an opportun-

ity to aiscuss the matter personally with the

Attorney General before he rescinds or modifies

the agreement.

If the Attorney General then

decides to rescind or modify this agreement he

shall personally inform Mr. Kraft or his counsel.

of that decision at least five business days before

l it is implemented.

As a result of our discussions, I understand that this

temporary arrangement is acceptable to Mr. Kraft, of course

without waiver of any legal rights he may have as a result

of prior surveillances. As I advised you, we are working

now on general policy determinations which, we hope, will

offer a permanent solution to the problem this settles temp-

orarily.

Of course, under the terms of this agreement we

will notify you of any policy determination which would

involve a modification of this agreement.

Until a final policy is determined, this agreement should

assure Mr. Kraft that no person will read or otherwise use

these documents in any manner so long as they remain under

the seal arrangement.

More, ta chenio sto details

Sincerely,

Attorney General

NW 55012%: DocId 5298960A

Page

---

## Page 127

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

Let to AG Dated 4128175 with end loved menandum

tothesse prepared by TEBienc

NOV 1 0 1975

TO :

Mike FROM:

SUBJECT:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

Senate Select Committee Request

Attached is a Senate Select Committee request

seeking additional materials pertaining to Joseph

Kraft.

Please prepare an appropriate response.

This office shail effect transmittal after Mr. Jack

Fuller of the Attorney General's office has reviewed

these additional materials with Mr, Kraft's

attorney;

Mr. Lloyd Cutler.

CC:

Jack Fuller

Paul Daly

ALI, FEI INFOREFANTON CONTATID

fish

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Pagks 127

---

## Page 128

PHANK CHURCH, IDANO, CHAINH

JÓNN O. TOWER: TEXAS, VICE CHALL

HOWARD N. MAKER

4., TENN.

VO"LTCH H. MONDA":, MINN.

MARRY GOLDWATIA, ARIZ.

WALTEN D. HUDDLI STON, KY.

CHAULES MCC.MATHIAS.J0..M0.

•AGUCHT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHAND 3. SCHWEIGER, PA.

GANY MART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STATE DIRECTOR

FREOCHICK A, O, SCHWAIL, JIR.. CHIEF COUS MEL

CURTID R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

• Irited Slates Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNNENTAL ORATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUAIT TO 5. HES, 21, BATH CONGHESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

November 7, 1975

NW 55012

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esq.

Office of Deputy Attorney General

Room 4313

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Mike:

By letter of July 23, 1975, the Senate Select

Committee requested delivery of "naterials pertaining to

the reported investigation of columnist Joseph Kraft in

1969, other than the

'logs' of any surveillance" (Part

III-A) .

On October 22, 1975, the SSC received a portion

of these materials.

Numerous

serials in the IBI file on

surveillance of in. Kraft were not included in the macerials

received, however, apparently because of a difference in

interpretation of

the term

"logs."

Request for delivery

Is speciiically made, therefore,

for the

following serials

(with enclosures and

attachments in FBI

file 65-75629:

Serials #1, 2

19, 20, 28, 22, 22, and 249; 12, 13, 14, I5, 10, 17,13,

Excluded from this request are the 1ogs of any

surveillance, by which the SSC means transcripts of overhears.

A memorandum from A. B. Fulton to !!. R. Wannall, "Subject:

Lloyd N. Cutler, Attorney for Josesh Kraft," dated June 10,

1975, which was

provided to the SSC on October 22, 1975,

notes that

"the only transcripts of the overhears which

located are contained as an enclosure to 65-75629-16."

were/

Our

request, thererore, does not encompass this enclosure.

Summaries oi information obtained from any surve llance of

Mr. Kraft, however, are specifically included in our request.

We are cognizant of the agreement between Mr.

Il Cutler and the Attorney General with regard to materials

Rupertaining to the reported investigation of Joseph Kraft,

and our request is made subject to the conditions of this

Nui agreement

ALI FBI INFORMATTON CONTAINED

IUHREHITIS ULCANNO

25.A1L/21 20012 5Pa Fun lint

moR-)6

DoC!

89601

*Page 128,,

---

## Page 129

Michael E. Shaheen, JI., Esq:

Page Two

November 7, 19÷5

In addition to the materials described above;

the following materials are lso requested for delivery to

the Committee:

1. All materials pertaining to the opening of

mail to or from Gilbert Stuart and Virginia R. Stuart

during the years 1960 and 1961, by FBI agents

in or.

around the cities of New York and frovidence,

Rhode

Island. (This request encompasses materials located

it Fbl Headquarters, the dew lork Field DrInce, anc

the Resident Agency in PIvidence, node IsLand.)

2. All materials pertaining to contacts by FBI

and Department of Justice officials and agents with

Committee members or staff members of the so-called

"Long Committee" (the Subcommittee on Administrative

Practice and Procedure of the Senate Judiciary Com-

mittee) in regard to that Committee's investigation

in 1965 into the use of mail covers and other investi-

gative techniques by federal agencies.

Sincerely,

Sent refl

John I. Elliff

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

...

NW. 55012,-DocId: 32989601 RATE 129

---

## Page 130

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM-NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITIÓN

GIA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W.

R. Wannall U

F. do

Cassid

SENSTUDY 75

I : Mr.

B.

Adams

2 ÷ Mr.

A.

(1 = Mr.

Mintz

J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

DATE: 12/8/75

1 : Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 • Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 ÷ Mr.

R. Lo Shackelford

1 - Mr. F. J. Cassidy

1 : Mr. D. Ryan

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dap. AD Inv. +

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y —

This is to advise of a briefing afforded staff members

the Senate Select Committee (SSC) on 12/1/75 regarding FBI notional

organizations.

Mike Epstein and Barbara Banoff of the SSC staff were

referred to Supervisor David Ryan of the Intelligence Division for

this briefing by the Senstudy Unit. Epstein opened the meeting by

requesting he be provided a detailed summary regarding FBl activi

ties involving proprietary, fictional and notional organizations. ryar

jadvised this was a broad area and requested Epstein be specitic.

Epstein asked that the three types of operations be defined and

examples provided.

Ryan described proprietary organizations as usually of a*

commercial enterprise character that are used to support or cover

covert intelligence activities. Epstein was advised Ryan had no

knowledge of the use of proprietary organizations in connection with

the investigation of domestic subversive or extremist organizations

although it was possible such operations were used in our criminal

and foreign counterintelligence investigations. Epstein was advised

fictional organizational titles had been used intrequently for limited

duration in connection with mailings utilized in the discontinued

Counterintelligence Programs (Cointelpros) Notional organizations

weported ribed as tavolving the use of an organization l title// 3%5=1193

supported by a post office box address and/or operating sources for

RZC-58

EX-115

- DEC L'$ 1975

CONTINUED • OVER

Enclosure

62-116395

(10)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINUD

SERAB IS UNCLASSILE

22

NT 510

PEG? 31975989601

Page 130

---

## Page 131

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

intelligence-gathering purposes. In response to his specific question,

Epstein was advised Ryan was not aware of any current use of a

notional organization targeted against domestic extremists or sut

-

Epstein questioned regarding the use of notional Marxist-

Leninist organizations. Ryan indicated this technique had been used.

in the foreign counterintelligence field in the past with some success,

but that he would not comment regarding the current use of notional

organizations in connection with our foreign counterintelligence

responsibilities. Epstein persisted in seeking this information and.-

he was advised by Ryan if he desired further details, he should sub

mit his request in writing through proper channels. (It is noted we

currently have one notional organization operating with the objective

of uncovering Chinese communist political and intelligence thrusts

against this country

Thereafter, Epstein and Banoff asked a number of

specitic questions relating to the FBI's use of notional or fictitious

titles in connection with its security investigations and responses

were provided as noted in the attached.

Epstein indicated a specific interest in the use of a

notional organization in connection with the investigation of the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP). He asked whether such techniques

were used at the beginning of the interview, during the middle of the

interview, and at the interview's conclusion. In the first two instances,

he was advised Ryan had no knowledge of the use of this technique in

the SWP investigation, and in the instance of the third question Ryan

indicated it was repetitive. Ryan received the impression Epstein

was dissatisfied with the briefing.

ACTION:

None. For information.

wol

i 2€

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601

Page 131

---

## Page 132

FBI NOTIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

The following comments were furnished to Senate Select

Committee staff members Mike Epstein and Barbara Banoff on

12/1/75 regarding specific areas of possible interest as relates to

W. E. B. DuBois Clubs

In July, 1964, the New York Office suggested establishing

a notional chapter of this organization which was in effect at the time

the youth group of the Communist Party, USA. The suggestion of the

New York Office was furnished to other offices, two of which dis

agreed with the proposal. Review of our files has determined this

proposal was never effected.

Socialist Workers Party (SWP)

No information has been located indicating a notional organ

ization with operating informants was ever formed or considered for

use in connection with the investigation of the SWP or other Trotskyite

organizations.

Committee for Expansion of Socialist Thought in America (CESTA)

In 1965 the CESTA operation was approved as an effort to

attack the Southern California District Communist Party for its lack

of democracy and rigid interpretation of Marxism. Leninism utilizing

a Post Office box return address. A number of issues of the CESTA

publication "Socialist Dialogue" was mailed to local Communist Party

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MDR-166

NW 55012 DocId:32989601 Page 132

62-1163%5-1193

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 133

members. By late 1967 the operation had been terminated. Although

it is impossible to completely assess the results of this operation, -

suspicions and dissension was generated within the local Party dis

trict, and in later months widespread defections in the Party were noted.

Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (CKKKK)

In 1967 an influential informant in the United Klans of

America (UKA) became involved in a dispute with the UKA and subse

quently defected from the group, establishing the CKKKK. The field

suggested the CKKKK, through its informant leader, be directed to

cause dissension and defections in the UKA. The field also suggested

a second informant be directed to set up an anti-UKA "Citizens

Council" consisting of defected UKA members. FBIHQ refused to

authorize any monies to be paid to the informant to finance the CKKKK

or to authorize the second informant to establish an anti-UKA "Citizens

Council. " Our informant's activities in the CKKKK, until the organi

zation's demise in 3/70, contributed to the crippling of the UKA although

his efforts were not part of a notional organization directed by the FBI.

Red Star Cadre (RSC)

=

Former FBI informant Joseph Burton was the prime

mover behind the RSC which had for its objective the development of

intelligence relating to CHICOM liaison with and influence of the

domestic Marxist Leninist-Maoist movement. The RSC evolved from

the Red Star Swap Shop, an effort developed by Burton entirely on his

own, and continued generally from late 1972 until the summer of 1974.

Burton was unable to establish contact with significant foreign pro

Maoist communists and he voluntarily ceased his duties in behalf of

the FBI when he was rejected by the Revolutionary Union, the leading

domestic pro: Maoist-Marxist Leninist Organization.

NW 55012

DocId: 32989601 Page 133

---

## Page 134

Red Collective

This title was utilized by two former New Orleans infor

mants, Jill and Gi Schafer, during the approximate period 1972-73 to

support their widespread contacts with subversives and extremists.

No other informants participated and the use of the title was dis

banded at the instructions of FBIHQ.

Antiwar or "Peace" Covers

The use of titles relating to the antiwar or peace effort

was considered in the late 1960's to assist our sources in developing

contacts abroad. One informant's association with the antiwar effort

was of assistance in establishing contact with a hostile foreign

communist government and valuable intelligence resulted. Other

sources utilized their actual or alleged association with antiwar or

peace groups to support their travel abroad to participate in inter-

national conferences under the influence of communist elements or

to contact communist elements abroad. No formal antiwar or peace

group was formed by the FBI as a notional organization for intelli

gence collection.

News Media Covers

An informant who was active with a domestic newspaper

supporting a foreign hostile communist country and a photographer

who had broad association with domestic extremists were considered

in connection with the establishment of possible notional organizations

to be targeted against foreign communist elements. These efforts

never came to fruition.

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601 Page 134

---

## Page 135

National Committee for Domestic Tranquility

In the mid: 1960's, the above title and a Post Office box

was utilized for several anonymous mailings to Ku Klux Klan organi

• zations. The newsletters urged Ktan members to desist from violence

and renounce their affiliation based upon patriotic, religious and moral

motives. No informants were included in the operation.

Miscellaneous

No significant notional organizations targeting domestic

extremist groups were developed in the New Left area, including the

Students for a Democratic Society, or relating to militant black

extremists such as the Black Panther Party.

=4 c

NW 55012 DocId: 32989601

Page

135

---

## Page 136

OPTIONAL PORM NO, 10

MAY 1902 EDITION

5010-108

OSA GEN. RLD. MO. 27

UNITED STA'TES GE

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO .

: MR. ASH

DATE:

11/19/75

FeRoM : E. F. Joingon 17;

SUBJECT:

MARTIN LUTHER KING

FarsTud1

LATENT PRINT EXAMINATION

Aletter beginning "King, in view of your low grade, --

has been examined, but no latent impressions of value for

identification purposes were developed.

The letter is enclosed.

Asroc. Dir. .-

Dap. AD Adm. -

Dap. AD Inv. -

Test. Dir.:

Admin.-

Comp, Sysr.

Ext. Affairs

Filos & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Idont.

Inspection

Intoll.

Laboratory

Logal Coun.

Plon. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.

Training

Tolophone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

ALI INFORMATION CONTATNED

CHEIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

ATE /025/80

55T SP 3. DBdKctous

RECOMMENDATION:

That memo with enclosure be forwarded to Inspector-

Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson.

62-116395-

Enclosure

NOT RECORDED

191 UEC 29 ,175

ETIsÉEE IRagis 1 tTcs

1 - Inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson

1803186161-

FUED IN

100-106

Rrcsts

+1 67-116385

LETrei returait

1 AC 3.019754 1 1

se Sulluan mn bute Roroi nfiphar

1 25-106-6-726

---

