# docid-32310028

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10301-10294

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1257

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/03/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SAM GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310028

278

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(Rov. 4717-63)

• AIRGRAM

DECODEDIGOPY

• CABLEGRAM

RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Belmont

Mohr -

Cosper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

DEFERRED 12-3-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

4:08 AM LJC

030750

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA. AR.

CG 6533-6 ADVISES THAT GIANCANA CONTINUES DAILY MEETINGS

AT ARMORY LOUNGE AND IS OBSERVED IN COMPANY OF CHUCK ENGLISH,

BUTCH BLASI, AND QUEENIE SIMONELLI. U

FROM INFORMATION FURNISHED BY CG 6486-C* AND CG 6576-C*

IT HAS BEEN LEARNED THAT GIANCANA IS LIMITING HIS CONTACTS

AT THIS TIME TO PERSONS KNOWN TO BE TRUSTWORTHY. IT IS

FURTHER FELT AT THIS TIME THAT GIANCANA IS NOT EVEN LETTING

THESE PEOPLE KNOW HIS INTENTIONS FROM RECENT INFORMATION

RECEIVED CONCERNING HIS TRAVELS. AS POINTED OUT IN MY TEL

INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED INDICATING GIANCANA WAS FLYING

"'EAST TO SEE HER" APPROXIMATELY TWO WEEKS AGO. INFORMATION

RECEIVED FROM LOS ANGELES INFORMANT REFLECTS GIANCANA VISTIED

AT HOME OF FRANK SINATRA IN PALM SPRINGS ABOUT TIME OF TRIP

NOTED BY CG 6486-C*. IT APPEARS THAT GIANCANA MAY BE GIVING

OUT FALSE INFORMATION CONCERNING HIS TRAVELS SO THAT ANY

INFORMANTS WILL BE UNABLE TO PASS ON CORRECT DETAILS AND WILL

ALLOW UNHAMPERED TRAVEL. V

IN CONNECTION WITH TRIP TO PALM SPRINGS POSSIBILITY

ARISES THAT GIANCANA VISTING SINATRA TO OBTAIN FUNDS OBTAINED

BY SINATRA IN

RECENT SALE OF LAS VEGAS HOLDING, NOTED THAT

CHICAGO HAS LONG FELT CALINEVA LODGE ACTUALLY OWNED BY

REG- 50

PEC

8

92 per 1

77-1257

1963'

ALL INFORMATISA CONTAINED

VECTO

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310028

Page 2

---

## Page 3

@leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 4=17-63)

DE CODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO XXTELETYPE

"Toleon

Belmont

Mohi -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

PAGE TWO

FROM CHICAGO 030750

GIANCANA AND FRONTED BY SINATRA. IN THIS CONNECTION IT IS

POINTED OUT THAT CG 6656-C-TE HAS ADVISED THAT GIANCANA

ALWAYS PICKS UP HIS OWN FUNDS AND DOES NOT TRUST COURIERS

TO HANDLE THIS CHORE. V

RECEIVED:

5:20 AM

HFL

• i

pare intellite a cott ired in the sure message rap be disseminated out side the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitabl,

DocId: 32310028 Page 3

---

