# docid-32305878

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/6/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10289-10008

92-3267-1038

Released under the John

". Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45945 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: HILL, WAYNE W.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/27/1970

31

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45945

DocId: 32305878

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

SD 106-C-TE advisedon 5/26/70 that Chicago ICN

Capo FRANK LA PORTE flew in via Amorican airlines from

Chicago to San Diego on 5/19/70. He occupied Room 1415

at the Town and Country Hotcl, San Diego, under the

alias FRANK LASCO.

He left San Diego via American

Airlineson 5/21/70, flying bäck to Chicago.

(Hotel

recoras at San Diego reflect that while LA PORTE was

here he made two long distance telephone calls to the

They are (714) 392-3919 and (213) 215-

5878. Bath calls vere nade on 5/18770 Los Angeles is

relephone for the listing on these two numbers for the

Informant advised that upon arrival in San

Diego, LA PORTE told him that he had been sent back

here by Chicago ICN hoodlum leaders PAUL "The Waiter"

RICCA, aka De Lucia, and TONY ACCARDO. They told It.

PURTE that tRicago EcHily icH MEner JOL ROSELLI

(who resides in Beverly Bills, California)J

JEK Law 10(a) 2.

RICCA and ACCARDO told LA PORTE to contact

the informant for a meeting with ROSELLI and to

determine from ROSELLI what questions are being asked

in the Federal Grand Jury and what answers ROSELLI is

giving.

Informant advised that on 5/20/70 he called

ROSELLI'S attorney, JALIS CANTILLON, in LoS Angeles, for

an appointment with ROSELLI in CANTILION's back office.

CANTILION called back and siated the appointment was

made for 1:30 p.m. on 5/20/70.

Thercafter, informant and LA PORTE Elew to

Los ingeles where they waitcd in CANTILLON's office

until 5:40 p.M. and ROSELLI never showed up. CANTILLON

- C-

COVER PAGE

92-3267-1038

NW 45945 DooId: 32305878

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

money as well as skim going to Chicago LCN from MOE

DALITZ' skimming

operations after selling casinos to

HOWARD HUGHES.

Informant believes that ROSELLI was

involved to the extent that he knew who was getting

the money and the amounts.

He believes

that ROSELLI

would have detailed knowledge regarding skimming in the counting

rooms at the Desert Inn, Stardust, and Sands Hotels.

Informant

and Las Vegas areas

for a great deal of money.

Informant stated that the

element has their own

"Jowish maria, major Jewish hoodlum

and that in his

opinion,

complaints from the

regarding ROSELLI

at this time.

Informant explained that if ROSELLI goes

too far in attempting to shake down wealthy Jewish

hoodlums, such as MOE DALITZ, the "Jewish mafia"

will have

to k111 ROSELLI themselves, which would be a great insult

to the Chicago LCN as it would indicate they could not

control their own members.

• Previous

Information furnished by LA 4412-C-TE

concerning ROSELI's

attempt to shake down MOE DALITZ

was set forth in referenced Los Angeles letter.

FRANK LA PORTE is an LCN Capo from the Chicago

family whose name has been mentioned by ROSELLI In Federal

ROSEL the

Grand Jury testimony which was read in open court, and

thereafter appeared in the "Los Angeles Times"

- LA. PORTE was brought to informant's residence

5/20/70, by BOMPENSIERO where they spent one hour in

conversation with informant and informant's wife.

On 5/27/70, Informant and on 6/10/70, both,

Informant and his wife identified photographs of FRANK

LA PORTE as Identical with the above Individual brought to

their home by BOMPENSIERO.

- H

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId: 32305878 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

Previous information furnished by informant conceming

ROSELLI's attempi to shake down ME DALITZ has been set forth

in previous letiers capüioned as above.

FRANK LA PORTE is an LCI "Capo" from Chicago whose

name has been mentioned by ROSELLI in the IGJ and that

testimony was read in open court and therealter appeared in

the "Jos Angeles Tines".

At informant's residence on 7/2/70, BOMPENSIERO told

informant,

"There is no way out for rosELL.

He is in trouble."

He said that LA PORIE is hiding out from a subpoena.

At informant's residence on 7/10/70, BOMPENSIERO

said that he had telephoned LA PORTE where the latter is hiding

out but made no other comment concerning that call.

After BOMPENSIERO's appearance before the FJ at

Jos Angeles on 7/16/70s informant drove him to the airport.

was quite critical of ROSELLI,

to that ha.

He-

stating that he continues to

furnish information to that FGJ, has been granted immunity,

and does not go to jail.

He stated that he must call LA PORTE

to tell him what questions had been asked of him (BOMPENSIERO)

by the FGJ.

He stated that he has been ordered to reappear along

with TONY ACCARDO and PAUL FIOCA on 8/27/70.

Informant was in contact with YALE COHEN at las

Vegas on 7/18/70, at which time COHEN told him that MOE DALITZ

nt act with

is out of the country because he fears there is a subpoena

out for him for the same iG that is questioning ROSELLI.

At informant's residence on 8/1/70, informint gave

BOMPENSIERO a box of cigars which YALE COHEN

had given informant

in Las Vegas the previous day to give to BOMPENSIERO.

BOMPENSIERO

said he had

telophoned COHEN per instructions the latter had given

informant and after telling COHEN the questions the irand Jury

had

asked of him, COHEN flew out the same night to wiere MOE

DALITZ is hiding out to furnish that information to vALITz and

returned Las Vegas immediately.

_J-

COVER PAGE

NW 45945 DooId:32305878 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JEK ACt 6 (4)

LA 92-113

LA 4412-C-TE advised on 10/14/70, that BOMPENSIERO

tola him (10/9-10/70, at Las Vegas) that JOHN ROSELLI, through

his attorney, has been in contact with BOMPENSIERO and

wants to see

nim.

In this regard it is noted that sas ROBERT E.

RUSSELL and NEWTON E: YOST observed ROSELLI and BOMPENSIERC

sitting and talking together in the coffee shop of the Beverly

Hilton. Hotel, Beverly Hills, California, in the early

afternoon of 10/6/70.

BOMPENSIERO told informant that ROSELLI claims

that he has said nothing to hurt anyone in his testimony

before the Federal Grand Jury, namely the people from Chicago,

Detroit, and Las Vegas that were subpoenaed before that Federal.

Grand Jury because of ROSELLI's testimony. • He said that ROSELLI

claims that no one will be indicted from his testimony, although

he, himself, will go to jall.

ROSELLI also wants to

see "PEANUTS" DANOLFO

and DANOLFO 1s making those arrangements at the present time.

LEADS

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: (1) Will continue

to follow and report the activities of ROSELLI.

(2) Will follow the appeals presently pending

by ROSELLI.

INFORMANTS

SOURCE

LA. T-1

IDENTITY

PRI

-I*-

COVER PAGE

HH 45945 DooId: 32305878

Page 5

---

