# docid-32289994

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/18/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10270

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-711

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, BR

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/21/1962

Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/31/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289994

Page 1

43

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIÓNAL, FORM NÓ

→00

UNITED S

ENT

Memoranuurn

TO

Director, FBI

DATE:

12/27/62

FROM

Regat,.

,Bern (92-10) (P)

SUBJECT:

GUS ALEX,

aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

ReBucab 12/19/62.

fac

On 12/18/62 Dr. ALFRED CARRELL, Director

Csntral Police Bureau, Bern, was furnished a copy of undated,

memorandum received by Bureau routing slip dated 12/12/62,

as well as information from Bucab dated 12/17/62.

he was informed of information contained in reBucab.

Dr. CARRELL stated that he would take immediate

steps to notify Swiss Cantonal Police authorities to have

necessary coverage instituted. He pointed out,

however,

that it would be extremely unlikely that Alex would hire a

car and drive from ZUrich to St. Moritz since all routes in

this area go through mountain passes and are almost completely

snowed in at this time of year.

police at St. Moritz might not be able to give coverage as

complete as might be desired, since that town would be

extremely crowded at this time of

year and the police would

be very busy with routine matters.

He stated he would do

his best to impress local authorities with the importance of

this matter, however.

Since Legat, Paris, has covered previous leads in

Switzerland in this case, it

is requested that Legat, Paris,

send Legat, Bern, copies of pertinent serials showing Alex's

background and previous coverage of him in Switzerland.

Bureau

(1 - Liaison)

1

Paris (sent direct)

1 - Bern

HDG : mls

(5)

EX 109

REC- 32

Taile

-2 : 1963

60 JAN 11 1963

F-60 2cc

DocId: 32289994 Page 2

---

