# docid-32298111

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10387

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-64

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, SJ

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES :

SUBJECTS :

01/27/1964

11

JURE, ASSOC, TRA, MEETING, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

Released under the John

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NH 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32298111

Page 1

---

## Page 2

rP=36 (Fir. 12-13-561

CAr

FBI

Date: 1/27/64

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-114543)

REC 3

FROM

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-6242) (P)ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SUBJECT:

JURE

DATE6/38/85 231506 BIAIGAL

IS - CUBA

10-14-94

5P8 MACKOK

and SJrad to Bureau, 1/24/64.

restartel with letterhead memorandum dated 1/17/64 ATF/

Enclosed

for the Bureau are 11 copies of a letterhead

memorandum (LHM) dated and captioned as above at San Juan, Puerto

RiCO,

and an equal number of evaluation memoranda.

Information

copies are designated to New York and Washington Fleld. Four

copies

are designated to Miami.

Local dissemination 1s being made to ONI, INTC,

OSI, US Customs

and INS.

Investigation at Ponce, Puerto Rico, was conducted

by SA JOHN A. NORRIS, JR.

INFORMANTS

ch

Identity

Contacted By

SJ T-1

SJ

461-C

Bureau (Encl.!

[CLOSU

Copy to: CIA/S: 86/219 SEBH

BRENNAN

ONI/CS/ACSICeAS@uand

(RM)

by routing slip for into.

Miami (Encl.

Date 1-30-64 by WHN/St,

I- New York (Encl.

2) (RM) (Info)

J- washington Field (Enel, 2) (RM) (Info)

San Juan

(I- 105-6498) (ARMS FOR PUERTO RICO)

105-114543-14

JLS: pr

(11)

REG- B

1 JAN 30/1964

GOFEB

X980s

Sent

in Charge

774 54464

DooId: 32298111

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SJ 105-6242

SJ T-2

SJ T-3

FERNANDO LOPEZ LLOBET

Owner, Editora Antillas,

• Inco, mentioned in LHM

SA WO GAYDEN WHITE, JR.

JOSE LUIS CRISPIN PEREZ ALONZO, PSI - UD

SA JOHN LO SPURGERS, JR.

Pending receipt of advice from Bureau, as reguested

in resJrad,

2e involved

no attempts to interview individuals indicated to

in alleged infiltration of Cuba, will be made.

LEADS

MIAMI DIVISION

At Miami, Florida

W1l], at INS, Miami, obtain photographs of ALVARO

CADENAS, INS #A12 778 202, and LUIS G. SERRANO, INS #A12 481 941,

so that photographs may be exhibited to CESAR QUESADA in an effort

to determine if they were in group at Caja de Muertos Island

on 1/12/640

SAN JUAN DIVISION

At San Juan,

Puerto Rico

1o Will continue to follow movements of "Venus"

and will determine if she is at Vaello Brothers Shipyard,

at no, deto neo

2. Will review INS, San Juan, files on ANTONIO

BLANCA obtaining background information concerning him.

At Ponce, Puerto Rico

1o Will Interview RAMON E. DAPENA VIDAL concerning

the "venus,"

her crew, her trip to Ponce and her destination.

-2 -

NH 54464 DocId: 32298111 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UN ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

OSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Post Office Box 4312

San Juan, Puerto Rico 00905

January 27, 1964

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

U1SC5

REVIEWED BY EBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

7.23%2 cat

E: RELEASE IN FULL

Re:

Li

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

FRANCISCO M. MELENDEZ, Deputy Collector, Uniteo

States Customs, Ponce, Puerto Rico,

on January 17, 1964, advised

that a week or

so before the "Venus" arrived in Ponce, RAMON Be

DAPENA VIDAL, described by MELENDEZ as an insurance agent in

Ponce,

came to the offices of United States Customs• DAPENA

requested information as to the requirements for becoming or

acting as an agent for a ship coming into Ponce. DAPENAhad no

ship was coming from. Based on the fact that little was known

That to no one Face person us ton, eat, at veel

office about two weeks

before the "Venus" arrived in Ponce and requested information

concerning becoming an agent for a ship. PICO furnished him

with the necessary documents to be completed by DAPENA and gave

him information concerning the obtaining of a bond. PICO

explained that ships entering United States ports, when the

cargo was not known, were placed under bond to insure that no

goods on which there is a duty would be unloaded before checked

by Customs.

According to PICO, It was determined, when the ship

arrived, that she carried no cargo.

on the after deck she

carried

10-15 empty o11 drums.

The ship, on arrival, was yellow

in color and PICO noted that the ship, while in Ponce, had been

repainted and now has a blue hull with a grey superstructure.

SENTED

ON-/

0/29/83

Excluded from automati c

deungrattng and

deetadstitcation

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATED-14-9/815P.S BAC/KSR

(JFK)

NW 54464 DooId: 32298111 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Re: JURE

QUESADA stated that he would know the man he had

talked to, if he saw him again.

on January 24, 1964, MANUEL CASANOVA, United

States Customs Agent, San

"M/V Venus"

was presently at pier 5, San duan, Puerto Rico.

Puerto Rico, advised that the

The ship is scheduled to go to vaello Ship Repair, Catano,

Puerto Rico, on this date or January 25, 1964.

On January 24, 1964, R. D. ARNOTT, Marine Division,

United States Customs, advised his records reveal the following:

The "M/V Venus" is listed as being owned by JULIO

ALONZO residing at 6271 Southwest 21st Street, Miami, Elorida,

Who Is also the master r this vessel.

The crew for this vessel

as of January 19, 1964, was listed as Captain JULIO C.JALONZO,

Engineen ALVARO CADENAS, Steersman LUIS/SERRANO, Steersman

HILARIO GUERRA and Oilman SERGIO SANCHEL.

These individuals

all Listed their residence as being in Miami, Florida, with

SANCHEZ who 1s from Ponce, Puerto Rico.

The "M/V Venus" was built in 1944 and named the

"Explorer." It has a wooden hull, two 550 horsepower General

Motors diesel engines, 112 foot long, 18 foot beam and 10 foot

draft, 118 gross tons

and 76 net tons. The ship is listed as

a Ireight carrier.

The representative for this ship in

Panama City, Panama, IS JOSE EM

CARMAN, no further identifying

data:

Mr. ARNOTT stated that in conversation with the

ship's master ona ed at ALONZO, he was adulsed that the ship

is presently.

Pier 5 in san Juan and scheduled to

undergo minor repairs at Vaello Ship Repair in Catano,

Puerto Rico.

The ship will be taken to Catano on this

date

or on January 25, 1964.

on January 23, 1964, SJ I-2 stated he heard from

EDUARDO MUNOZ, a member of the JURE,

that JURE leader MANOLO

RAY was planning an expedition to cuba to occur sometime

in the immediate future and this expedition would depart from

Ponce, Puerto Rico.

- 6 -

NW 54464 DooId: 32298111 Page 5

---

