# docid-32303188

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10200

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-7TH NR 111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/03/1962

6

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SMO, GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING, RAID, FGJ, RACK AND SUBV,

SUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

HW 45854 DocId: 32303188 Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)(92-2918)

17/3%6201

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

on 12/18/61, PG 615-C advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

as follows:

914-747

In his opinion; the raid at the Mannarino gambling casino -

horse room in New Kensington, Pa., on August 24, 1961, by IRS,

Pittsburgh, was 1l1-advised,

shortsighted and poorly planned.

For two years, Pa 615-C has been attempting to obtain increasinglyi

better intormation about the Mannarinos, their illegal.

activities, their associates and their future plans.

He

compensation, simply because

on all phases of life and

activity in the New Kensington area had to be broken.

In spite of, the obvious dangers to his professional

reputation

and personal safety, he commended a process of infiltration

due to his belief that such things cannot be left to

"somebody eise."

By frequenting gambling establishments, PO 615-C met many

of the MANNARINO employees, and by performing

small favors

for them, professional and

otherwise, he became friendly

with most of them and the confidant of some of them.

They furnished considerable information, some more valuable

than others, but a compendium of their bite of information

was forming a gradually clearing picture of the entire

MANNARINO operation.

Bureau

6-

Pittsburgh

1- 137-941

1- 137-1139

1- 137-1264

1- 137-1017

91-1918-

NOT RECORDED

883 JAN

8 1962

TGH/RIG

(10)

526

SA JAN 22 1962

NW 45854 DocId: 32303188 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PQ 92-236 PG 92-228

On 12/19/61, PG 612-C, who is an experienced numbers writer

in the MANNARINO operationineNew Kensington, was asked about

the dearth of pertinent information being received, and

informant advised:

The town (New Kensington) has been chosed down almost

* completely,

as regards

gambling, since the'

"Federal raid

last summer" and since the commencement of the FGJ inquiry.

Besides the numbers racket, which

is down

in volume by at

least half, there

are only three card games

in the city,

only one of which is operating on any given night.

Horse

bets, sports bets and dice games have been eliminated,

allegedly by orders of the MANNARINOS. Men who have been

for years employed in one phase or another of the MANNARINO

gambling set-ups are now loafing about town, and their

principal topics of discussion concern the FGJ hearings,

their belief that the newly-elected reform administration

1n. New Kensington will not allow resumption of open gambling,

and their "fears" concerning their own futures.

With

regard to the numbers racket, elaborate security measures

have been put into effect, and only those possessing the

Federal Wagering Tax Stamphare permitted to participate.

In view of these facts, pertinent information has been scarce

and unreliable.

Spot surveillances at residences, legitimate business sites

and at known hangouts

during the past four months have been

wholly unproductive and tend to

substantiate the comments of

the above mentioned informants.

Due to the situation created by the IRS raid on August 24,

1961, and the resultant FaJ probe, as it affects receipt

by the Pittsburgh orrice of positive information concerning

the MANNARINOS and their activities, the Pittsburgh office

has found it impossible to comply fully with Bureau instructions

concerning submission of a daily teletype summary of pertinent

developments.

As matters now stand, the only readily discernible method

of collecting

current positive information concerning either

MANNARINO is by establishing highly confidential sources.

4

HW

45854 DocId:32303188 Page 3

---

## Page 4

OTHER 4

PG: 92-230

PG: 92-228

In view of the above, PCI

Leechburg

Pa., GABRIEL MANNARINO'S

was contacted

on 12/18/61,

by SA FORSYTH, and PCI l

was asked why he had

furnished

so little information in recent months. PCI

advised:

Prior to the "Federal raid on the MANNARINO gambling joint

in New Kensington towards the end of summer,

1961, he

observed some activity around GABRIEL MANNARINO' a cottage

near Leechburg.

While there were never any groups of visitors,

except for one

family-type outdoor picnic, occasionally

individuals would visit the cottage.: Also, GABRIEL

has developed what amounts almost to a predictable pattern.

He leaves the

cottage on most days shortly before noon,

always alone, and he returns to stay at about eight o'clock

in the evening. Visitors are extremely rare and never stay

more than a few minutes.

PCI has not been able to obtain

any information of recognizable pertinence and, therefore,

has not. contacted sA FORSYTH.

on 12/18/61, PCI.

Pittsburgh, Pa.,

employed as

Manager of the MANNARINO-owned Ken Iron and

Steel Co., New Kensington, was asked by SA FORSYTH why he

has not been furnishing and pertinent information during

the recent past; and he advised:

Even before the

"Government raid" in New Kensington in

August 1961, he was not taken into the confidence of the

MANNARINOS as regards anything but their scrap metals and

.. gas well businesses.

ventures because of

However, on

occasion he overheard conversations involving

The oucheard

They put him in charge of these two

education and prior experience.

some of

their other interests and observed them meet some

of their associates and/or employees.

Since the raid, he

has not

seen GABRIEL MANNARINO mOre

than three times and

understands that GABRIEL MANNARINO is spending most of his

time

at his cottage near Leechburg, Pa., while SAM MANNARINO

spends the largest portion of each day

at his restaurant,

The Bonfire,

"Iocated a few miles from Leechburg."

From

what he has

been able to observe and learn, SAM MANNARINO

and GABRIEL MANNARINO see very little of each other or of

their erstwhile associates. PCI does not feel that he can

probe for information from either MANNARINO without arousing

their

suspicions,

because it has been his habit to observe

and listen but not to ask questions.

3

HW

45854 DocId: 32303188

Page

---

