# docid-32294152

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10428

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-540

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/09/1963

14

LCN, TP, FL, BKG, LEADERSHIP, LST, RES, TRA,

MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IA

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32294152 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

FEDERA

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA

BUREAU OF INV

STIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

12/9/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/5/63 - 12/6/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

mh

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JAMES P. FLYNN, 7/1/63, at New York.

Bureau airtel to New York, 11/4/63.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum characteriz-

ing informants.

TO NEW YORK

One copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing informants.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is to be noted that in Tampa, Florida, captioned or=

ganization has always been described as the Mafia,

under which

caption numerous communications have been furnished the Bureau

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

(3: - Bureau (92-6054) (Enc, 2)

• - New York (92-2353) (Enc. 1)

3 - Tampa (92-218)

1 - (92-1)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-

540

REC 24

pennedia posticasso

daissasse

1962

COPIES DESTROYED

TO MAN Z6 1005

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 18-76324-1

NW 45839 DocId: 32294152 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-218

relative to alleged members and all past activities.

In 1956

in lampa,

Florida, a local Hillsborough County

Grand Jury investi-

gation of the Mafia resulted in the Grand Jury's concluding that

there is no national or local Mafia in Tampa; however, on

October 15, 1963 in Washington, D. C. before the U. S. Senate

Police NEIL G. BROWN,

Subcommittee Investigatampa, testitied that law enforcement in

Tampa believed the Mafia was identical with La Cosa Nostra as

described by witness JOSEPH VALACHI.

In view of the above, this report is submitted consisting

of alleged members of the old Mafia in Tampa, Florida.

It is to be noted that casesare open in the Tampa Office

on all individuals cited in this report as members of the Mâfia.

The individual cases opened on alleged members as set

forth in this report are to determine their background, current

activities, and establish their prominence and/or association in

La Cosa Nostra so that the Tampa overall investigative responsi-

bility in this captioned organization can be met.

It is further noted for the information of the New York

Division that it is generally understood in law enforcemeht that

the SANTO TRAFFICANTE "family" encompasses all those in the Tampa

area, however, attempts continue to ascertain the existence of

individual "families."

INFORMANTS

TP T-2 is P. JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ who furnished a list of

TP T-3 is former TP 22-C,

recently in Tampa, Florida..

OTHER 4

who died

B*

COVER PAGE

515-1011"!

NW 45839 DocId: 32294152

Page 3

---

