# docid-32295250

## Page 1

Released.under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10215-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, PH

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/10/1958

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

- RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32295250

Page 1

105

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleation Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

1/10/58

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

Director, FBI

FROM: SAC, Philadelphia (33-296-17)

GIIF

CRIMINAL RACKETS ACTIVITIES

PHILADELPHIA AND MIAMI DIVISIONS

Re Philadelphia airtels 11/22; 12/6,9/57, and Miami airtel

12/4/57.

PH 269. 0

advised on 1/9/50 that on evening of 1/3/50 he received

a call from ANGELO BET Top Hoodlum, Philadelphia Division) from Miami,

Fla. BRUNO advised informant that Florida State Senator and attorney NORMAN

F. HAFT, Miami, wanted 20 per cent of profit per year for securing trash

contract. BRUNO asked informant if he should "go ahead with the deal."

Informant instructed BRUNO to telephonically contact him on the evening of

1/4/58.

PH 269-C said on evening of 1/4/58 BRUNO again called him, at

which time he, informant, instructed BRUNO to go ahead with the arrangements

previously discussed, although he considered 20 per cent to be exorbitant

Informant stated that from discussion with BRUNO he had determined

that contract will be secured by the Senator and will be awarded in the

name of BEN GALLUP (Phonetic). Informant states GALLUP operates the juke

box business for the Italian element in Miami.

BRUNO told the informant

- Bureau

- Miami (62-3041)

2 - Philadelphia (33-296-17)

1-137-657

TASTE tO TRENTEE

- 20 JAN

1958

DMH: BME,

(7)

779199

Approved:

Special Ageht in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32295250 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Releásed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote,.

DATEA FleW- 18+2087

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 1/10/58

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

PH 33-296-17

that GALLUP's affiliation with the racket element in the Miami area is

not generally known, and he is considered "clean."

PH 269-C said BRUNO instructed him that contract will probably

be awarded in approximately 45 days, and that he, BRUNO, would not consider

the deal without informant's okay.

Informant stated that BRUNO told him on the evening of 1/4/58

he was going to Havana and would return to Philadelphia on 1/13/58. BRUNO

stated he would contact the informant on that date.

HENNRICH

-2 -

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32295250

Page 3

---

