# docid-32397475

## Page 1

Date: 12/18/98

Page:

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

00-0104-10433-10158

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

NEGOTIATION NOW

03/28/67

1

SUBJECTS :

NEGOTIATIONS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

POSTPONED IN FULL

JFK-RH19:F09 1998.12.18.09:28:22:873128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

53216

DooId: 32397475

Page

---

## Page 2

Nogotiation Now!

pretend ipate con be broken Ord geet pullo

"A cessarion of the boibing of North Vietnam is ca

aarongly noible doughter cod dectreation or

imperatire recessity lo cruste conditions for pecca!

Meirom vor only if one fide or the ciher shers the

filialis.

aar sad ta courage cas the compession for iu-

U Thent. Secretory-General of the United Nations

ee to iche the initiatire on cárst sieri

10ich 28.1957

We support the call by l Thant for new initiatres fo bring about negollations among

ail parties to the condict, leading to a political settlement oí the Vietnam tar.

Se call upon the United Siaies, he mosi pomerful nation in the world, is tale the

first stop and end the bombing of Horth Vietnam now and sihout conditions. We

23k our government io take further intuativas leading to a standstill trace.

We ask Morth Vietnam and the Mational Liberation Front to respond affirmatively

in any new Unted States inidaüves and to join with the U.S: in a standstll cease-

fire.

We asis South Vietnam io respact and join in thesa sieps.

his course of action presenis io the United Sigies a moral alternative io cur stated

alicy of bringing about negotiations by force, or to the devastation of ail-cut war, and

more realistic alternative ihan unilateral withdrawal.

le baliere that such initiatives now can break the impasse and lead to negotations

a a political saitlement prosiding for the removal of ali foreign troops and for

Entirely democratic elections in which all South Vietnamese can participate freely.

1=7a

nitress

City

State

Zip

ЗЕРОСЯТ НЕСОЛАДОЙ ДСК!

—?: 9911=01519

RELEASE

WW-53216 DoeId: 32397475!

Page ?

---

