# docid-32336062

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90131-10030

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR. 105-99200-73

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54046 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 07/29/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

REINALDO PICO

CUBAN PRISONER EXCHANGE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32336062

Page 1

---

## Page 2

--

EDERAL BUREAU. OF INVESTIGATION

Hir Tolson

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr

Belmont

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Mohr

JUL 29 1961

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad.

TELETYPE

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Evans-

Mr. Malone.

CIA HAS NO OR ECTION TO

Mr. Rosen

DECLA

Mr. Sullivan l

RELEASE UF CIA INFORMATION

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KPL1-1M-97

Tele. Room-

Mr. Ingram.

URGENT

17-29-61 4-16 PM EST TD

REG

SED K51

Miss Gandy

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

EN2279

(JFK)

FROM SAC, MIAMI, / 105-40981

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

DOSSMOE

CUBAN PRISONER EXCHANGE, IS DASH EUDA. ON JULY TWENTYEIGHT

AND TWENTYNINE, SIXTYONE, MA FOUR NINE TWO DASH S ADVISED

MIRTO COLLAZO, ONE OF THE TEN REPRESENTATIVES WHO PARTICIPATED

IN THE ILL-FATED INVASION OF

CUBA ON APRIL SEVENTEEN LAST,

PERSONALLY INFORMED HE DID NOT WANT TO RETURN TO CUBA•

COLLAZO INDICATED THE GROUP OF TEN REPRESENTATIVES IN THE

U.S. HAD AGREED TO RETURN TO CUBA ON MON., JULY THIRTYONE

NEXT. COLLAZO, ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT, EXPLAINED THAT

REINALDO PICO RAMON WAS IN ACCORD WITH HIM AND DID NOT

WISH TO RETURN TO CUBA. FURTHER, COLLAZO BELIEVED THAI

TWO ADDITIONAL PRISONER REPRESENTATIVES, JUAN FRUYERO RODRIGUEZ

AND FELIXPIRE 2 KRAMAYO, WILL SIDE WITH COLLAZO AND PICO.

COLLATO EXPLATED THAT SY SULE THIRTYONE NERDA NEXT, MY HOPED ALL TENE

WOULD AGREE NOT TO RETURN TO CUBA.

STATED COLLAZO AND THOSE WHO DID NOT WISH TO RETURN TO CUB

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORM TTON CONTAINED

FIREIN

D13 3/3195

To No 810 16 1 RE6-37

88 AUG 2 1961

00-73

(JFK)

NH 54046

DooId: 32336062

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

PLANNED TO ASK FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM IN THE U.S. COLLAZO,

ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT, STATED THE PRISONER REPRESENTATIVES

HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN THIER ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT

FUNDS FOR THE PURCHASE OF TRACTORS, AND DESIRED TO REMAIN IN

THE U. S. TO BE OF HELP IN OUSTING FIDEL CASTRO FROM CUBA.

INFORMANT INDICATED THAT COLLAZO AGREED TO CONTACT HIM

ON THE MORNING OF JULY THIRTYONE NEXT, TO RELATE THEIR FINAL

DECISION CONCERNING THEIR RETURN TO CUBA, AND THE BUREAU WILL

BE KEPT ADVISED. INS, MIAMI, ADVISED.

END ACK PLSS

5-22 PM OK FBI WA WS R 2

TU DISV

DiSSEMINATION TO: STAte,

CIA + Opti

!)

sa 25-...i.

VEC,O-1316 - 16F NAIL

NW 54046 DooId: 32336062 Page 3

---

## Page 4

0.0

FURSA!

WELCATION •

COM BE CATIONS.

JUL 29 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Vr. Mohr

•Mz, Callahat

MI.

Conradi.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Mr, DeLoach

DECLASS

Mr. Evans

RELEASE

TAZE AND/OR

Ma. Malone.

INPORMATION

Me. Rosen

IN THIS BOCUMENTE AP-

Mr. Sullivan

/ septel

Me. /Totter.

3LD /4522200

12-27 фра(JEK)

URGENT 7-29-61 4-16 PM. EST. TD ALT INFORMATTON CONTATVED

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

123/3/8

Or.K

FROM SAC, MIAMI / 105-4098/

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

silve

CUBAN PRISONER EXCHANGE, IS DASH CUBA. ON JULY TWENTYEIGHT

AND TWENTYNINE, SIXTY@NE, MM. FOUR NINE TWO DASH S ADVISED

MERTO COLLAZO, ONE OF THE TEN REPRESENTATIVES UHO PARTICIPATED

IN THE ILL-FATED INVASION OF CUBA ON APRIL SEVENTEEN LAST,

"PERSONALLY INFORMED HE DID NOT WANT TO RETURN TO CUBA.

COLLAZO INDICATED THE GROUP OF TEN REPRESENTATIVES IN THE

U, So HAD AGREED TO RETURN TO CUBA ON MON•S JULY THIRTYONE

NEXT. COLLAZO, ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT, EXPLAINED THAT

REINALDO PICO RAMON WAS IN ACCORD WITH HIM AND DID NOT

WISH TO RETURN TO CUBA. FURTHER, COLLAZO BELIEVED THAT

TWO ADDITIONAL PRISONER REPRESENTATIVES,, JUAN PERUYERO RODRIGUEZ

AND FELIX PEREZ TAMAVO, WILL SIDE WITH COLLAZO AND PICO.

COLLAZO EXPLAINED THAT BY JULY THIRTYONE NEXIA NEXT, HE HOPED ALL TEN

WOULD AGREE NOT TO RETURN TO CUBA. MM FOUR NINE TWO DASH S

"STATED COLLAZO AND THOSE WHO DID NOT WISH TO RETURNITO CUBA:

END. PAGE ONE

MIA DOE HI MORTON:

B. Colter adront Bug

Ben

entert 6 1009

eastate

л-ccа

104-61.

Setter

PM 729-61

- if confinetin

7-31-61

8-1-61

ritivitar

NW 54046 DooId: 32336062

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE TWO

PLANNED TO ASK FOR POLITICAL ASYLUM IN THE U. SO

COLLA20,

ACCORDING TO THE INFORMANT, STATED THE PRISONER REPRESENTATIVES

HAVE NOT BEEN, SUCCESSFUL IN THIER ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT

FUNDS FOR, THE PURCHASE OF TRACTORS, AND DESIRED TO REMAIN IN

THE U.S. TO BE OF HELP IN OUSTING FIDEL CASTRO FROM CUBA:

INFORMANT INDICATED THAT COLLAZO AGREED TO CONTACT HIM

ON THE MORNING OF JULY THIRTYONE NEXT, TO RELATE THEIR FINAL

DECISION CONCERNING THEIR RETURN TO CUBA,

NAND THE BUREAU WILL

BE KEPT ADVISED.

INS, MIAMI, ADVISED.

END ACKIPLSS

5-22 PM OK FBI WA WS R 2

TU DI SV

K BI

NW 54046 DooId: 32336062 Page 5

---

