# docid-32203799

## Page 1

Date: 07/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10011-10031

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

-=-----------

Released under

the

John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note,.

Case#:NU 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : WALLACH, PAUL (COUNSEL)

TO : SHAHEEN, MICHAEL E.

TITLE :

LETTER REQUESTING ACCESS FOR VARIOUS MATERIALS

DATE : 12/10/75

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

MATERIALS PERTAINING TO KGB'S 13TH DEPARTMENT

ATERIALS PERTAINING TO VALERIY VLADIMIROVICH KOSTIKOV

IATERIALS PERTAINING TO OLEG BRYKEN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 352, R2577

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32203799

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

WANT ClAI

CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOVER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAM

ПАЦІВ л. нАПт, мІс.

НожАлО н. ВАЖКА, І., теля.

WALTER A. MONDALE, MINN.

DANAY COLOMATER, AMIZ.

MALTER O. HUDOLESTOM, KY.

CHARLES MCC.

MATHIAS, IR.. MD.

NOVERT MORDAN, NeS

ПІСНАЛО 8. УСНикіЖА. РА.

Gar натт, сого.

WILLIAM O. MILLET, STATE DIRECTOR

PAKORRICK A. 0. SCHHAAZ, JA.. CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R, SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

SECREI

@nites States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO 5. REB, 21, JITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

143

Boy 35

Record Number 157-10011-10031 -

December 10, 1975

Michael E. Shaheen, JI., Esq.

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

13055:

2/19/11

Office of the

U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike:

The Select Committee requests access on a priority

basis to the following materials on or before Monday,

December 15, 1975:

1. All materials pertaining to Valeriy Vladimirovich

Kostikov (or a known alias) either prepared during

the period January 1: 1962 through December 31, 1965

or relating to activities of Kostikov during said

period including operations involving or targeted

at Kostikov and any contacts made by or on behalf

of the Bureau.

-

2.

3.

4.

All materials pertaining to Oleg Bryken (or a known

alias) either prepared during the period January 1,

1962 through December 31, 1964 or relating to acti-

vities of Bryken during said period, including opéra-

tions involving or targeted at Bryken and any con-

tacts made by or on behalf of the Bureau.

All materials pertaining to the KGB's 13th Depart-

ment prepared during the period January 1, 1962

nich year

through December 31, 1964 which relate to alleged

or known activities of said Department in Cuba,

Mexico or the United States.

All materials pertaining

belten was code named. TUMBLEWEED

are thined involve double agent

and which

contacts with

the individuals mentioned in items

FBI no

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

2/2644 d

RELEASE IN FULL

A SEA ART

FBI

Sincerely,

ALi INFOPMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

NEERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

11-24-93

Seal Whils

FBI INFO

Paul Wallach

Classified by 5/T0-HRSKSR

cc :

William O. Cregar

Counsel

Declassify On: DAD(JFR

SECRET

DECREL

HH

54653

DocId: 32203799

Page

---

