# docid-32309996

## Page 1

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10301-10262

HQ

92-10262-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PETERS, TERRY D.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/01/1971

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

FCA, BKG, ASSOC, RACK ACT, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/17/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Doeld: 32309996

Page 1

---

## Page 2

votel Indesthe John Y. Kennedy Asassination Retords callection Act of 1952 191 USE 210TT

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-253 (Kev.,3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEJTIGATION

PORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

FRANK JOSEPH 'CARACCI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

-4/1/711

REPORT MADE BY

TERRY D. PETERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/9/70 - 3/23/71

TYPED BY

ser

AR

REFERENCES:

New Orleans report of SA TERRY D. PETERS dated

11/23/70.

Oklahoma City letter to New Orleans dated

12/17/70:

New Orleans letter to Bureau dated 1/29/71.

-P-

INFORMANT

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-65 is NO 1075-C

CONTACTED BY

SA I. M. SHEARER, JR.

CONVIC AUTO.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

NONE

FUG.

RECOVERIES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-10262) (RM)

- USA, New Orleans (RM).

2 - Departmentál Attorney,

New

Orleans (RM)

2 - New Orleans (92-837)

42.

LACQUIT.

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XIYES EINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

[YES XINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

10262-21

REC-341

CT APR 'Y 1971

EX 105y

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

CO:

123.

Criminal Diviston,

How Fwd.

Organized

Crie and Hacketeering

By

Section Room

2744

53 AR 1331971

DocId: 32309996 Page 2

Notations

N'& DESLN

---

## Page 3

E Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collétion Act Of 1992 (11 ISC 2107)

DATE: 11-14-2017

• *

NO. 92-837

LEADS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 1) Will verify birth of

FRANK CARACCI on 10/12/29.

.=...

• 2) Will report appellate court decision on CARACCI's

U.S. District Court conviction for bribing an IRS Agent.

•3) Will conduct surveillance of CARACCI to determine

his current activities and to determine if he still maintains

personal contact with CHARLIE PACE of Palace Amusement Company.

4) Will interview NICK KARNO and FRANKIE FORD to

determine their current financial interest in

the 500 Club and

the 500 Backstage Bar.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 12/14/70, NO 1899-PC advised SA TERRY D. PETERS:

that he had seen FRANK CARACCI at the racetracks on 12/12/70

standing at the bar, east end of the grandstand where the

horses come onto the track. Informant stated that CARACCI :

has been seen at the track on an almost daily basis.

On 12/9/70; NO 1075-C advised SA L. M. SHEARER, JR.:

that CHARLIE PACE was quite upset by the FBI raid in November,

1970, but not because stolen property was found. Informant

stated that PACE was upset because of something that will get

him into trouble with his associates for the loss of the

machines and the money.

An employee mentioned that it was

something done behind FRANK'S (CARACCI) back. Informant

believes that PACE fears that FederalAAgents will find out

that he is shylocking, charging as much as 60 per cent interest

on loans and no record is kept once the loan is paid off.

NO 1075-C advised that many banksloans are made to

customers of Palace Amusement which are co-signed by PACE and

CARACCI; however, some of their customers could not get bank

COVER PAGE

301-10989

DocId: 32309996

---

## Page 4

I Released under the iohn

F. Kennedy Assassination Recards Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 T

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO: 92-837

loans and these must pay the high interest if they want

Some of these high interest loans are made through

Rex's Finance Company; however, if inquiry is made concerning

the loan after it is paid, no record can be found and the

company will not acknowledge that such a loan existed.

On 3/18/71, NO 1203-0 advised SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH

that SIDNEY (LNU), who may be identical to SIDNEY LAZARD,

acts as a go-between for FRANK CARACCI and the sport bookee.

CARACCI needs a go-between because he bets on winners so often

that many bookees are afraid to take his action. Informant

stated that SIDNEY takes CARACCI's action, some of which he

books himself, and some of which he lays off to I. J. TILLMAN,

with whom CARACCI cannot get done with.

New Orleans indices reflect that SIDNEY LAZARD is a

prominent New Orleans attorney and is known to be a degenerate

bettor. T. J. TILLMAN is the

subject of New Orleans file

165-1477.

C*

COVER PAGE

38; -105:5

DocId: 32309996

Page

---

