# docid-32286522

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10298

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-12-357

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/09/1962

2

CIP, INTV, CIVELLO, JOSEPH FRANCIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286522

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

JAPTENAL M9IM1P40201.

010-704-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

"Memoranum

:

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

8/9/62

SAC, DALLAS (94-265)

SUBJECT:

INTERVIEW PROGRAM

PROGRAM

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE/MATTERS

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Bureau airtel to Albany, 5/7/62, and Dallas

letter to Bureau, 7/10/62.

On 7/12/62, JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, subject of

Dallas file 92-36 captioned "JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, aka.

AR"', was observed by Bureau Agents at the Egyptian Lounge,

5610 Mockingbird Lane, Dallas. CIVELLO is a known close

associate of the owners of this establishment, JOE and SAM

CAMPISI.

CIVELLO was interviewed at this time by the Agents

and appeared to be most cordial and cooperative.

The recent robbery of SAM CAMPISI was discussed

with CIVELLO,

and CIVELLO was of the opinion that CAMPISI

had been "set up" by someone close to CAMPISI as the bandits

appeared to have thorough knowledge of CAMPISI's movements

and habits.

The Agents intimated to CIVELLO that they had

knowledge

of the person who had set up CAMPISI, as well as

the identity of the bandits. CIVELLO appeared to be aston-

ished and

also appeared most desirous of asking the Agents

for these identities, but it was noted he could not bring

himself around to this.

The

interview was

terminated, but it is believed

that possible further contact with CIVELLO may be productive.

On 6/19/62, GEORGE FUQUA, subject of Dallas file

92-61, was arrested in Kansas and

subsequently interviewed

by Bureau Agent in Kansas.

He appeared to be cooperative

and stated he would assist the Bureau in an attempt to

locate Bureau Top Ten Fugitive JOHN GIBSON DILLON. He

also furnished information concerning his knowledge of

New Or leans hoodlum CARLOS MARCELLO and Tampa hoodlum SANTOS

TRAFFICANTY! IN

3E06480

-

bureal

3 - Dallas

10 30 UM se5

94-465)

•÷1

2 6 92-36)

t93-61)

P08062-9-12-357

N2 AUG IO 1962

EX- 1108

RMB : pm

(5)

• !)

57 AUG 2 0 1962

"DocId: 32286522 Page 2

2-10918

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 147 U5C 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL .94-265

Arrangements were made by the FBI in Kansas

for FUQUA to contact FBI, Dallas, upon his return.

On

8/6/62, FUQUA made such contact and was subsequently

interviewed by Bureau Agents at Dallas on 8/6,8/62.

FUQUA furnished pertinent information concerning

TRAFFICANTI, Dallas gambler AL MEADOWS, and information

concerning the activities of WILLIAM RAY DAVIS, GILBERT

LEE BECKLEY, and WILLIAM MEADOR SMITH, who are subjects

of Dallas file 165-29. He also reiterated information

previously furnished concerning DILLON.

Some of the

information furnished by FUQUA is known to be true

correct based on prior investigation by the Dallas Office.

Attempts to verify the other information are being made.

Contacts with FUQUA will be continued.

The substantive

case file concerning FUQUA (Dallas 92-61) has been closed

and a new PCI file has been opened by Dallas as this is

one of the goals of the criminal intelligence program.

2

•DocId: 32286522

Page 3

---

