# docid-32321599

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/31/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10377-10257

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3303

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HARTINGH

TO: MORRIS

TITLE :

DATE:

10/31/1995

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.: 05/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 46065 DocId: 32321599 Page 1

232

---

## Page 2

....?

Memorandum

TO

Mrs. Morris

Date/es 10/31/95

-

From

Dep./ Dir

hief o

of Gen.

Counsel

Asst. Dir.:

Crim. Inv.

CJIS

Finance.

Info. Res.

Insp.

Lab.

National Sec.

Personnel

Training

Off. of EBOA

Off. of Public

& Cong. Alfs.

Director's Office

Subject :

John A. Hartingh

JFK TASK FORCE

PURPOSE: To advise that on or about 11/6/95, the Assassination

• Review Board (ARRB)

will order release of information in

identities concealed to protect established FBI sources (persons

who were contacted on a regular basis but were not informants);

and to request Criminal Investigative Division (CID) and National

Security Division (NSD) positions on the release as to appeal.

RECOMMENDATION: That CID and NSD addend this memo with their

positions as to appealing the ARRB decision to disclose the nine

persons named herein and so advise the JFK Task Force and Office

of General Counsel

(OGC) by 11/6/95.

*- 62-HQ-1029205

Enclosure

62F-HQ 1029205-3303

1

- Mr. R. Bucknam, Room 7176 (Enclosure)

- Mr.

Kennedy, Room 7142

(Enclosure)

Mr. Shapiro, Room 7427 (Enclosure)

Mr.

P. Kelley, Room 7338)

(Enclosure)

Mr.

Bryant, Room 7110 (Enclosure)

Mr.

D. Evans, Room 4230 (Enclosure) i

Mr. Loturco, Room 4026 (Enclosure)

Mr. Esposito, Room 7116 (Enclosure)

tral

Mr. Divers,

Room 4944 (Enclosure)

- IRD Front Office, Room 5829 (Enclosure)

•- Mrs. Keeley, Room 6712 (Enclosure)

- Ms. Siford, Room 7176

work paperodet

JAH: vld (13)

(CONTINUED - OVER)

TrEAt As ORiGINAL

NW 46065 DocId: 32321599 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum from John A. Hartingh to Mrs. Morris, dated 10/31/95

Re: JFK TASK FORCE

RIF

7.

HQ 62-109060-4NR 1244, NAR 124-10027-10059,

identifies Merle Fainsod, Professor of Government and Director of

the Russian Research Center at Harvard University, as an

established source of the FBI.

Fainsod provided minimal

information regarding Priscillä Johnson, a well-known newspaper

woman

and author who spent time in Russia. Johnson was of

interest to the

FBI in its efforts to interview individuals

possessing knowledge of Lee Harvey Oswald.

RIF

8.

HQ 62-109060-1581, NAR 124-10027-10044, identifies

two Cuban sources of the Chicago Office.

Ebelia Echevarria and

Jesus Martinez were described in this document as sources who

provided information concerning the Cuban community.

IfF

identifies

Tas an informant of the Cincinnati Police OTHER 4

Department who provided information regarding the illegal

sale and

possession of automatic weapons.

stated a fear of being

killed in retaliation by those people with which he associated,

and his identity was protected

at his request.

The FBI provided written justifications arguing the

need to protect the individuals listed above.

However, the ARRB

supports the position that the information at issue is relevant

and significant to the assassination and that it outweighs any

harm that would be caused to the individuals to be disclosed.

As experienced in the prior appeal to the President, we

are experiencing difficulty meeting the statutory burden of

protecting FBI symbol number informants, PSI's and PCI's.

It

would be far more difficult, if not impossible to meet that burden

that these

nine individuals currently require protection, under

the JFK statute as interpreted by this board. We would have tò

determine whether they are alive, locate them and/or their

relatives, interview them for their position on disclosure and

identify specific harms that would result from their disclosure.

If, however, CID and/or NSD recommend appeal, they are requested

to provide their opinion and

reasons to

JFK Task Force and OGC

by 11/6/95, as the FBI only has 7 days to appeal upon receipt of

the letter.

3

HW 46065 DocId:32321599 Page 3

---

