# docid-32304504

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10134

HQ

165-1066-14, 15, 16, 17, 18

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45960 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/23/1966

PAGES:

46

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC A/T, 4 RPT

v9.1

HT 45960

DocId: 32304504

Page 1

---

## Page 2

_FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-65)

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN ELI

STONE aka

FEDERÄL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

3/21/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/1 - 3/20/67

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITWI

TYPED BY

Cc

REFERENCES: Report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 1/30/67 at Dallas.

-C-

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 2/7/67, DL 271-C advised subject left by plane for

around 2/9/67.

at the Denny Restaurant Corporation, as that company has been

CI advised that STONE would probably be in touch with FRITZ

RECHENBERG, from Dallas, while in Los Angeles. RECHENBERG is

known to be at Santa Anita Racetrack for the current running.

ab

Case has been: Pending over one year

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Bureau (165-1066)

USA,

Fort Worth

1 - Dallas (165-116)

Yes

CXNo; Pending prosecution over six months

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

→ Yes CXNO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

165-1066-18

MAR 24 1967

REC- 50 - -

EX-113

Dissemination Record of Attached Report!

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Co, AлO,

Criminal, Division,

Organized

Бікіка

Rusreteering Section

57 APR

41987

Notations

SPAT SECI,

NW 45960

DooId:32304504 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JEK Act 6 (4)

DL 165-116

For the information of the Bureau,

is currently

DL 275-PC, having previously been designated a Top Echelon In-

formant DL 275-C-TE•

By separate letter Bureau has been

furnished with summary of volume of information furnished by

Bor olume

DL 275-PC with request that he be reinstated as Top Echelon

Informant.

been in frequent touch with.

and it has been observed

that on an almost daily basis he is at his place of business

from between 7 to 8 AM until about 2 PM.

He then goes home

and returns to the restaurant around 5 PM and stays until

9 to 10 PM when the night manager comes on duty.

has

previously expressed his view during contacts as informant

that he is afraid to become involved in any extensive book-

making while his appeal is pending and feels that he will

lose the appeal anyway and will have to serve his sentence,

which is 60 days.

DL 275-PC is the most reliable and

knowledgeable source Dallas has on gambling matters and is

the principal source on two ICN members in the Dallas area.

II STOnE should again start making book, it is felt the Dallas

Office will be aware of it through informant contacts with him

and other checks with other informants and police sources, and

the case can be reopened should he again become active.

- Вж -

Cover Page

HH 45960

DocId: 32304504

Page 3

---

## Page 4

1 DL 165-116

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 12/4/66 and 1/4/67

Division,

IRS, Dallas, advised

SA LEE Y. MURPHY. Intelligence

JEK Law

11

The Phoenix Office reported the following confidential

information by communication dated 12/14/66:

On 12/7/66, JACK GRAHAM; Security Office, Mountain

States Telephone Company, advised

that Phoenix number 279-1779

is listed to PATRICIA STONE TAYLOR, 4120 North 28th Street,

Phoenix.

PAUL RIGGS

The Oklahoma City Office advised that on 12/7/66,

, Manager, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,

Vinita, Oklahoma, advised that AL 6-4690 is subscribed to by

the Sacred Heart

Academy, 318 North Scaper, Vinita, Oklahoma.

is also ident the info a 105-pC, he mure a teet subject

Bureau concurrence we are still maintaining contact with subject

as an informant

and he continues to furnish valuable information

and to be one of the best contacts on gambling matters in the

Dallas area.

During contacts with subject as an informant, and

even before instant case was instituted, subject repeatedly stated

he would not obtain line information from out of state and

involve himself in an investigation by the FBI. Subject is

extremely bitter at IRS over the way his case was handled

and him personally, in particular.

While it is possible br

since he has a number of

in the area of San Antonionand at Fort Worth and is known through

toll call checks to be in touch with them. AUSA TIMMINS in

discussing STONE's appeal before the Supreme Court stated he

doubted

that IRS could make a case against STONE on the basis of

REVIEWED BY EEJFK TASK FORCE

ON 6-26-98 do

DO RELEASE IN ULL

RELEASE IN PART

I I TOTAL DENIAL

-B-

Cover Page

119

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (PgW297-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

JOHN ELI

-STONE

aka

E C Stone

John Stone ne

John taward

Stone

J. Ef stone

John El Stone

John *E

L.

"stone

DALLAS

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/19-11/26/66

11/30/66

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITWI

TYPED BY

jlp

Title is marked changed/include additional

aliases of

J. E. Stone, John El Stone, and John E. L. Stone, as shown on

subject's

FBI Identification Record.

REFERENCES:

Dallas report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 10/13/66;

Las Vegas letter to Dallas dated 10/25/66;

Kansas City letter to Dallas dated 10/28/66;

Denver letter to Dallas dated 11/15/66.

LEADS:

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will, through contacts with subject as an informant,

remain alert to his bookmaking activities that might involve

Case has been: Pending over one year

Yes

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

→ No; Pending prosecution over six months

Yes

No

• SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES-BELOW hi

165.

1066=

MCI-36

1

2

- Bureau (165-1066)

USA, Fort Worth

- Dallas (165-116)

REC- 51

IN DEC

5 1966

DINI2I0N

CHECITIMAEZLIC VLINE

SECEIAEO

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

gEC 8 1U 21

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

00, A1G

Criminal Dirbion

scratcoring Section

-66

17181

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 5

---

## Page 6

JFK Act 6 (4)

DL 165-116

a violation of Federal law.

2. Will follow subject's status in regard to

IRs conyictionof subject with AUSA B. H. TIMINS, sealed

through his attorney, had

Dallas vaction ta U. 5. Supreme Court, which matter is

still pending.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Las Vegas advised that a photo of STONE was

displayed to LV 228-C-TE on 10/19/66, by SA LEO A. STEVENS.

Informant advised he had never seen StoNe.

-CI. stated he

would assume that if STONE is in contact with DAIDONE, it

would be in connection with MAURICE DODSON'S activities as

DAIDONE has never been anything but a runner for DODSON and

is not known to have ever handled

any

betting action in his

own behalf.

Las Vegas advised Dallas would be informed if

any contact is established between DIDONE and STONE as result

of informant contacts.

On 11/15/66, SA EARLE HALEY obtained record

information from Mrs. PAT ANDREWS, Supervisor, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Fort Worth, Texas.

As the Bureau is aware, subject is DL 275-C-TE

who was re-activated after he was interviewed on other matters

on 10/20/66, and Bureau was so advised by letter under the

symbol caption. Subject still maintains the

same apartment as reportedin referenced report and he is

undoubtedly carrying on a limited bookmaking operation with

his partner WILLIAM PETRE.

PETRE is a night manager at Denny's

Restaurant, Dallas,

owned by STONE's wife, and one of the two

telephones

previously reported. With

in STONE's apartment is contae

name of PETRE as

contacts in Dallas and Texas,

it is quite possible that he can get his line information from

any number of sources without going out of state.

It was noted

in last toll check that he was in most frequent contact with

JAMES WINNINGHAM in Fort Worth area, who is a known bookie and

under separate investigation.

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 6

---

## Page 7

JEK Act 6 (4)

DL 165-116

A number of offices have outstanding leads in

this matter which are being followed. After same are

completed, Dallas contemplates closing this case anc

continue to contact

as informant with dual purpose

of obtaining as much information as

possible from him on

gambling in the Dallas area and same time this will afford

a better opportunity to keep abreast of his bookmaking

activities.

-C*-

COVER

• PAGE

HH 45960

DocId: 32304504

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DL 165-116

REVIEWED BY FA/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

AT SHERMAN, TEXAS

817, 893-3051

RELEASE

AT TEXARKANA, TEXAS

838-7882.

RELEASE IN PART

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

-181A1

,1.

Will

review

SAYS

disposition of IRs case against

subject and for any

other pertinent

information

that may be helpful to this

investigation:

2.

Will make further efforts

to

mitch'subject discreetly

determine what public telephones be may be using to make calls

to Las Vegas.

3. Will review prior investigation for pertinent

information and possible sources who can 'be contacted re subject's

gambling activities.

4. Will interview subject re this matter and full details

in his possession re the PHILIP S.

• BOSCO bookmaking operation.

Will attempt to develop from subject his las vegas contacts and

setup re bookmaking and furnishing of line information.

Will also develop the identities of subject's

associates involved with him in his

bookmaking activities.

6.: Will contact airlines to determine which ones subject

wing on trips to Las Vegas and will alert Las Vegas as to when

subject goes to Las vegas.

ADMINISTRATIVE

By communication dated 9/12/66, the Las Vegas Office

subaished the following information;

MAURICE.

: 120D0?.

On. 10/30/64, LV 158-C advised SA LEO A. STEVENS that Dr

one TONY was frequenting the Dunes Hotel and answering telephone

pages, for

MAURICE. DANIEl

CI knows DODSON to have been

engaged in illegal bookmaking utilizing the Dunes Hotel switchboard

to operate his book. CI subsequently learned TONY's last name to

be DA IDONE.

-Law 10/aY2.

TON:

DA/DONE

On 9/29/64. as a result of FGJ subpoena directed to

the

the records of this

were made

vailable and disclose

that on

11/16/64 the

AS a

result of'a

advised there were

LASVEGAS, NE CEDA

D

COVER PAGE

subpoena. on

CALI

ALl

1002

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DI. 165-116

On

978/66, Special AUSA MICHAEL DE, EZO,

Las Vegas, made

available a

cody of an "Information Report" from

IRS dated

8/8/66, whick

nade

On 4/3/66, LV 158-C said that DAIDONE,

a close friend

Of DODSON, had commented that he had just returned from a clinic

Santa Barbars, California, where the doctor told him he

must lose thirty pounds.

On 12/10/64, PCI MERRY MARLENE RORABAUGH advised

SA FRANCIS J. SCHMIDT

that she

occasionally observes

• DA TDONE

in the Dunes

Hotel

casino and it was her opinion

that DAIDONE

was working for MAURICE DOdSoN.

On 11/6/65, LV 228C

TE advised SA' STEVENS that DA IDONE

maintained liaison with HENRY ROSEN, a clerk, Derby Sports Book,

who rebresents MaURICe dobson and that DaidonE picks up the results

of thelaction ROSEN books for DODSON and

gets it back to DODSON.

He pointed out that this completely

rEMOVES DODSON from this

bookmaking activity and DODSON feels safe from being known to

have this connection at the derby.

On 2/21/66, this informant

advised that he observed DODSON, DAIDONE, and CHARLIE KATZ in

conversation in the Dunes.

KATZ iS knovnito CI as a highly

regarded basketball handicapper and

been complaining

E

COVER PAGE

ON

6-2698.2o

- ED. RELEASE

O RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504

Page 9

---

## Page 10

DI 165-116

NEVADE

On 8/11/66J LV 143-0

advised.s. LEVIS A. FAIN that he

did not know ANTHONY DAIDONE bY

that name;

however, be knows

one

"TWISTEr" who drives a toronado, frequents the Tower of Pizza,

operated by sports handicapper BOBBY, BERENT

and is frequently

in the company of bookmakers ROBERI MARTIN and MAURICE DODSON.

"TWISTER" is working the telephones for one

of the sports bettors

but informant does not know which one this telephone man was

working for.

Las' Vegas

advised that daIDone isa

DOMing Done tine the Source on michae waiters

at this time.

Las vegas noted there are five, licensed sports

books from which the

line can be readily obtained and

numerous

bandicappers are avallable in Las Vegas through whom lines

can be compared.

Las vegas advised no open inquiry regarding

DA IDONE with regard to STONE can be conducted without alerting

DODSON, MARTIN, and probably STONE:

can be

seen fron foregoing information, DaIDonE is in las vegas,

is known to be working for DODSON; however, proof of the latter

is lacking.

Las vegas advised the only approach on discreet

coverage is through an undercover operation and surveillance:

DODSON and MARTIN are both awaiting:on apper. oi their conviction

in Houston, Texas; on iTwI charges in way, 1966.

conviction

DODSON

stated that he was not going to bet on book

sports action for'a year, and has been employed as a pit' boss

at the Dunes Hotel.

His

biggest activity in

the past has been

during football and DAIDONE's activities will be followed

closely through informants and Agent observation to determine

this combination starts booking football action.

Las vegas advised no request of Bureau to réview

telephone records on DaIDoNE's telephone would be made in view

of previous check and results and fact it is known knowledgeable

bookmakers in las vegas use pay telephones and vary from

to another. Las Vegas also advised that check on DODSON's

calls at Dunes would not be feasible

in view of his known practice

of

Ming

the switchboard telephone,

variety of aliases, and his

poS

oL authority at the Dunes.

Las vegas advised it will keep Dallas informed

of any

possible approach to, this problem of coverage of DAIDONE, et'al:

as result of observations of DAIDONE's

activities.

F

COVER. PAGE

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 10

---

## Page 11

JFK Act 6 (4)

DL 165-116

For information of the Bureau,

* voluninous

investigation was conducted of subject's activities prior to and

subsequent to his arrest by IRs in June, 1963, under the IGA

character and copies of these reports bave boen

furnished to the

SA tWo the The seed on a me at eated 6/23/65,

after which

was opened as a Top Echelon Target and

subsequently was developed into a

top /echelon informant

designated DI. 275-C-TE, and then,

discontinued when this

investigation was instituted.

There is no doubt that

possesses detailed

knowledge of gambling in dallas area and probably could furnish

substantial informition with regard to Las

As Bureau he been previously airsed sepatel ampasts.

previously working as an informant on the premise that the

only information that could be obtained from him was that he

volunteered. While this may be satisfactory in the initial

stage of development, it was hardly conducive to an effective

arrangement over a period of time and could lead to informant

picking and choosing on what information he furnished' as

well as on whom. Bureau is aware that the two Agents who

deveLoped

Jas an informant have been transferred to

other offices..

When the informant was reassigned to reporting

Agent, it was

apparent a different approach would have to evolve

if we were to be effective and his productivity maintained

to justify retention.

is in an excellent position

to -

be a most valuable informant. Recently the reporting Agent

had occasion to be in

place of business seeking

current location of Dallas top hoodlum. At that time

approached the Agent stating that he understood the operation of

PHILIP ST

BOSCO, Dallas bookmaker, was like a "little Las Vegas."

At this point the Agent specifically and emphatically pointed

out to

that if he had any specific information to furnish

we would be

lao to accept it and would

'be furnish such

information.

was told that we wanted specific information

and no generalities.

stated he would discuss the matter

fully at a time agreeablecto

X the Agent:

has not been interviewed as yet and an opportune

tine to do so la being stadted. Further such an intervieg to

be productive must be arranged in private and will involves

séveral hours of detailed inquiry.

by all appearances,

not aware of the current investigation of him and for the time

is

being it would appear.

this is the best course until nore

information is known as to what extent be

currently is involved

G

COVER PAGE

NW 45960 DooId: 32304504 Page 11

---

## Page 12

DL I65-116

In gambling and whether a case can be made against bim.

•It could

well be that if

an ITvI case cannot be made,

what information

we already have will be

suiticient to obtain his cooperation

to

a greater degree than.

before a's

an intormant.

Review

of telephone company records was approved by

Bureau by

airtel dated 8/30/66.

It should be

noted that the numerous calls by subject

telephone number AT 4-7093 are believed to be to JAMeS. I

unchad ganbler at Fort Worth, Texas,

on whom current

investigation is being conducted separately.

H*

COVER PAGE

74 45960

DocId: 32304504

Page 12

---

