# docid-32297193

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kenneiy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10218-10469

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6436-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/21/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

APR, NOONAN, CORNELIUS J., ASSOC, UNK INDIVIDUALS,

TRIAL, ARREST, BAIL, EMP, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297193

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI

Date: 5/21/63

Transmit the following in_

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priorityor Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6436)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-2568)

SUBJECT: CORNELIUS J. NOONAN, aka

AR

(00: NEW YORK)

ReNYaIrtel to Bureau, 5/6 and 8/63.

As indicated in referenced airtel 5/6/63, recontact

was made with NY 3778-C* relative to information furnished

concerning MATTHEW ROBERT ENGLISH, subject of NY 15-26106.

No additional information resulted from this recontact;

however,

the informant has been alerted for any additional

information regarding ENGLISH.

that there was no activity or information of intelligence

In xeferenced 5/8/63 artel, it was indicated l

value obtained from 4/24/63 to 5/6/63, inclusive.

dates are amended to read from 4/24/63 to 5/5/63, Inclusive.

REC- 53

3/- Bureau (92-6436)

1 - Miami 192-

) (EDWARD MC GRATH)

1

Newark (15-

ERAS NORTE 092-6436-13

-

New York 15-25416

1

New

York

9-2247

6 MAY 23 1963

New

York 92-1917

1

1

New

York 92-1948

New

York 92-667

New

York 137-2089

- New

York 92-2568

Md

GPR: je'

(13)

Approved:

Of me ot

Special

Agent in

Charge

Sent

M Per

DocId 32297193 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released-unter the John F. Kennety Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2568

Upon the completion of the telephone call,

two unknown individuals entered NOONAN's office.

The

Informant advised one was BERNIE (LNU) and the other

one, whose name the informant could not furnish, was

described by the informant as an individual living in

Yonkers, NY, who is suffering from high blood pressure

which consequently forced him to seek employment requiring

little exertion and who worked with MICKEY MC LOUGHLIN (ph)

some 12 or 13 years ago on Pier 58.

The two unknown

subjects requested NOONAN's assistance in obtaining a Job

for the unknown subject with high blood pressure.

NOONAN

first- remarked that Local 807 (IBT) is no good and, therefore,

he will try Local 707 (IBT). NOONAN called NICK (LNU) at

Local 707, IBT, and requested NICK's assistance in obtaining

a position for the unknown individual. Upon completion

of

the call, NOONAN advised that NICK 1s going to call back

and that meanwhile the two unknown

Individuals should

remain in NOONAN's office.

BERNIE (LNU) asked NOONAN "how's the big fellow,

EDDIE." NOONAN's answer is inaudible.

It is noted that

NY 1716-C has advised in the past that the term "big

fellow"

is used among NOONAN's associates when referring

BERNIE (LNU) then remarked "MURPHY is

CAMPBELL?"

There follows a general discussion and

conversation between the two unknown subjects and NOONAN

regarding CAMPBELL's arrest and the fact that CAMPBELL is

out on bail.

The unknown individual from Yonkers remarked

thathe saw CAMPBELL's sister, GRACIE, the day before

That they 5/52 at No camed he never thought

would let him out on bail.

NOONAN discussed

CAMPBELL's forthcoming trial and stated the best that

CAMPBELL could hope for is a hung jury. NOONAN remarked

that there are a number of individuals involved in this

matter and some are doing five years, some are doing seven

and a half years, and some are doing 15 years and "you can

bet your life that none of those doing 15 years are

snitching." NOONAN is of the opinion that CAMPBELL 1S

in serious trouble and again reiterated that the best

CAMPBELL can hope for is a disagreement among the jurors.

-4-

DocId: 32297193 Page 3

---

