# docid-32339682

## Page 1

:. JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90150-10178

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

64-42454-17

Released under the John

hosassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note! .

Case#:NM 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/02/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

IH 54462

DocId: 32339682

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in .

Via

FBI

Date:

5/2/61

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

KEC

47

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (26-24802)

ALPHA

IISA

IS - CUBA

ELPIR

CROFIRISI

ALL INFORMATION CONFARTED 3

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE "9/u/85 BY SPLBIANGC

CapResi

Re Miami teletype 5/2/61.

For info of the Bureau, on the morning of 5/2/61,

representative of United Press

Miami informed that the New York Journal American was

at the te

publishing a story to the effect that a source in the

"Unidad Revolucionaria" at Miami had described the individual"

responsible for the highjacking of the National Air Lines

(NAL) plane as an agent of FIDEL CASTRO. Further, this

individual had notified the CASTRO revolutionary

• forces re the

invasion plans concerning the recent invasion of Cuba, 4/17/61,

which became known to anti-CASTRO people in Miami. The story

related that this individual has been in hiding, and used this

means in order to get back to Cuba.

- upa

FLA

cuba

Fla

Cula FLa

ALBERTO FERNANDEZ,

MORENO,

representatives of

HECTOR VEBLES and LUIS VEGA.

"Unidad Revolucionaria!!

lanti-CASTRO organization,

etch advised they had no info re

the allegation mentioned above. Each of these individuals

REC--47/

MCT/ 24/

+ 244-5611

Bureau (AM) .. (RM)

Miami (2 -

26-24305*

JDH: pmi

(7)

MAY 17190

Approved:

flassis

Dates

MAY 196

-Per

G C a Wick

NW 54462 DocId: 32339682

Page 2

SEC:

---

## Page 3

MM 26-24802

further advised they did not have any info, nor did they

know the identity of the highjacker, and had not been in

contact with the newspapers or any representatives of

the press association.

on 5/2/61, AM, MM 492-5, who is known publicly

as a former official of the BATISTA fovernment, jadvised he

received a telephone call from DAN BRITTON, New York Journal

American Newspaperman, NYC, about 1:30 AM,

5/2/61. Informant

explained the journalist made inquiry re the NAL plane

highjacked on 5/1/61. He stated BRITTON was wondering if

the highjacker was a CASTRO Agent, who might have iformed

CASTRO re the plans of the ill-fated invasion of Cuba,

4/17/61. BRITTON, according to the informant, was looking

for a news story.

hMM 492-S advised he told BRITTON he believed it

was possible the NAL plane was highjacked because the man

wanted twgo to Cuba for the Mayday Celebration in Havana,

and had been unsuccessful in getting a commercial flight.

The informant said there were no commercial flights to Cuba

from the Miami area on 5/1/61, and that Cubans needal permission

from INS or the U. S. Dept. of State in order to travel to

Cuba. He explained that authority from RAUL CASTRO OF FIDEL

CASTRO would be required for a plane to land at San Antonio.

de Los Banos, Cuban revolutionary air force base. MM 492-s

also indicated he concurred with BRITTON that the highjacker

could have participated in the invasion, and wanted to return

to Cuba with publicity on 5/1/61.

MM 492-s stated he did not mention "Unidad Revoludonaria" o

He advised he does not know the identity of the highjacker;

however, would attempt to ascertain his identity through

sources available to him in the U. S. and inside Cuba.

20

54462 DocId: 32339682 Page 3

---

