# docid-32289429

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10201-10205

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2363

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEGAT, MX

TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/18/1972

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, TELCAL, SURVEILLANCE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289429

236

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Leased under the John F. Kenedy Assassination Records Collection Aet

of 1992 (11 U5C 211

DATE:

111-14-2011

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

IG SLIP

FBI

7/18/72-

RE

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

ACIION

Via

AIRTEL

C-ETONS TINALIZED

CLAE

_BY DE?

DATI: 10/5/85

• CO

-TUE

(Priority)

3831

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) 1025

REASON-I

DAM

FROM :

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY. (92-13)

., aki

Classtried by / 251

Exempt I r'om GP.

304-I5K

Deteror Dec

SPERIS/Bur

ss1f1catiom

3/31/72.(& N

BYS

TFIED

notize its

C CU

NEX 34J advised 6/7/72

he conducted inquiry

Amsterdam 82,

Mexico City, and determined from the janitor

that a Mr. SAM DE PALMA occupied the

penthouse at that addres

for approximately two years but departed supposedly for the

U. S. about a week ago.

He had a servant named CELSO CARRETO

who reportedly has since immigrated to the U. S. aded by

DE PALMA.

DE PALMA had a black Mercedes and was very friend

with a local architect named MORALES, home telephone 5-35-39-

and 5-14-15-69. 6>

A pretext telephone call

to this architect determined

he occasionally calls MORALES/

hat DE PALMA reportedly was living

Beirut, from where

OPRIATE AGANCI

APP

AND

ADVISED BY

SHIP

On 7/10/72 source advised that he had recontacted

the janitor and determined that DE PALMA had returned to

Mexico City and

was living in a

home he purchased in the

redregal de san

Angel

section.

His chauffeu! CAMILO has

come by for mail.

Foreign 1421805 Pest PReNE

92-3171-23163

1-24-72

(1-Legat,

I-Mexico City

Beirut oN

5aLba9 =u

Pa. ten

RSC :kvw

(7)

Approved; >

62 AUG

DE

SPECIAL

Special Agent in Charge

11972

INFORMATION CONTAIN

LEIN IS UNCIASSIEIED

I U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 971 - 413-735

DocId: 32289429

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Récords Collection Act of 1992 141

USC

DATE: 11-11-2017

I Hotel

MEX 92-13

It is noted that/CS MeX 287) has

had no recent

direct contact with subject.

he reported that subject

has

beat seen at the churubusco Golf club in Mexico City. faul

Confidential contact was established with ULISES

SANTOYO and ANTONIO PRADO, Manager and Assistant Manager,

respectively, of this club (protect).

They advised that

subject is unknown to them and is not a member of that club

However, club records show SAM DE PALMA registered

guest of GUY DANIELS, JORGE DEL

respectively; who are members.

GUY E. DANIELS is listed

in the Anglo American

Directory as a retired American living at the Club Churubusco

LEAD

in inte

-CHICAGO

suth

Gos:

18,7

AT. CHI CÁGO; ILLINOIS.

locate

CELSO CARRETO

through INS

gubject's activities in Mexico.

9 73

Wilted

tempt to identify and

orinterview.yconcerning

BEIRUT (INFORMATION)

Information copy to Legat, Beirut because of infor-

matzon that subject was residing there (e)u

S0:-000923

DocId: 32289429

Page 3

---

