# docid-32312005

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

•Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10320-10322

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-409763-179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/11/1966

21

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32312005

58

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

=v. 4-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

C28

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

MARKULANE

aka

Robert/ Blake

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

MAY 1. 1 1965

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/17/55-5/3/66

REPORT MADE BY

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

kmm

SM - C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

"CEPT WHERE SHOWN

THERWISE.

The title of this report is being marked

"Changed" to reflect the alias,

ROBERT BLAKE, used by

subject in Dallas, Texas, on 3/30/66, during

a filmed

interview with let e. bowers,

jJR., 1923 View

Dallas, Texas.

Classet by sprmacle

Crest,

REFERENCES:

SO3RAS ALL

Declassify

OAC

/ Report of SA BENJAMIN

$2.25

P.

25, 700

NOU THIC

MANUS, dated

12/17/55,

at NY.

JW

Dallas airtels dated 3/30/66, and 3/31/66,

entitled;

"ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.

KENNEDY,

11/22/03,

DALLAS, TEXAS; MISCE OUS -INFORMATION

CONCERNING"

, (Bureau 62-109060; NY: 89-75 and Dallas

89-43)}

Gracitie

236

-P -

Exempr tron

categorye

APPROPRINE: AGENCIES

Date of Declassine

11:71

MAR 8

197/

REASON

FCIM

REVI:

DECLASSIFIdATION

Case has been:

Pending over one year

Yes

_No; Pending prose

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

over six m

Yes INo

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

100.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

409763-1

G-Bureau

(100-409763) (RM)

1-Dallas

100-10401)

4-New York

(Info) (RM)

(100-117844)

(1-105-38431)

Deleted Copy sent te

Emile de Antonio

by Letter

Per FOIA Faquest C

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date fwd

How F

By

56 MAY 2

DocId: 32312005 Page 2

State, SIA, 5.5 (3)

SUBY.

15/2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIPIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISEL

GRET

REC-1

MAY 13 1966

ST:18

PET TO SET

MEO. ROOT

JAN

ANS ELUB ALIL

BY:

Take Lane

---

## Page 3

I Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 210T Hote).

DATE: 11-14-7017

-GREU

NY 100-117844

ADMINISTRATIVE:

An extra copy of this report is being furnished

to the Bureau in the event additional dissemination

is desired.

It

is .

Street,.

noted that the address of 75 Montgomery

which was furnished by the subject on his arrival

In the Us on 2/24/66, is the home of his father, HARRI

A MEANE.

It is believed that this address was given as

matter of convenience and that subject will return to

England in the near future.

Unless additional information

is obtained to indicate that subject intends to remain in

the US on a permanent basis, NY is not submitting .

FD 122A containing the above

residence.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY., T-1

Detective Inspector

File Number Where Located

100-117844-1103

(s)

England, (Via Legat,

London letter to

Bureau dated 1/11/66)(F)

NY I -2

Danish Security Service

(Via Legat, London

fletter to the Bureau, 8)

2/4/66)

100-117844-1108

NY T-3

Mr. NELSON FRANK,

NYC Free Lance

Writer on Labor

Matters (Request)

LEADS :

100-117844-1106

DALLAS (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnished to

COVER PAGE

_SECRE?

890-19579

DocId: 32312005 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

F'D-204 (Res, 3-3-59)

DEN

UN: ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JuSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

BENJAMIN P. MC MANUS

MAY 1 1 1956

100-117844

MARK LANE

Office:

New Yok, New York

Bureau File #:100-409763

DECLASSIPY ON: ZOA

malais

lassined ly sermache

Declare 513,00

SECURITY MATTER - C

APPROPRIATO AGENCIES

AND

570 0.1

SUTP

Synopsis:

on his return to the US, 2/24/66, subjegt

gave his residence as 75 Montgomery Street, NYC.

March, 1900, subject acted as the defense attorney for

DAVID H. MITCHELL III at Hartford, Connecticut

subject's

book,

"Rush To Judgement"

, concerning the assassination

of President JOHN F. KENNEDY,

scheduled for publication

in London, Englana,

being prepared by Viking Press, NYC.'

a source reported that Current

Affairs Documentary Films,

Itd., had been formed in England to make a film based on

"Rush To

agement" with an anticipated budget of

$50,00

March, 1906, subject, using the name ROBERT

reforted to be in

or at'empting to Intervien various

Dallas, Texas, interviewing

assassination of President KENNEDY

Report release i te

DETAILS:

1/28/27 to 5.5.

to Mark Lam are,

SoFiam AUS

Catagen

In deleas

Who won t

in litigatient CONt

Vegas...

TAL

MAR &

1977

white

then clam

11911

atitomatic

6-599418

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REASON FOR EXTENSION

FCIM, II, 1-2.4.2

OrMan are terene see concludes or RATE OF BEVER COR

3611206

s contents are not to be distributed outside YouDEbLASSIFICON:

106-409763-179

DocId: 32312005 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREL

NY 100-117844

I.

BACKGROUND

A.

Residence

On December 31, 1965, NY I-1, a confidential

source abroad, furnished information which reflected that

at that time the subject's residence and/or mailing

address

was

21 Argyll Mansions, Kings Road, London,

England.

On February 24, 1966, Inspector WALTER

AUSMAN, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS),

John F. Kennedy International Airport, Queens, New York,

advised that upon subject's arrival in the United States

that date, he gave his residence as 75 Montgomery Street,

New York City. (u)

B. Employment

The "New York Post" newspaper, issue of March 8,

1966, page 12, reflected that subject had been retainea

as

the defense attorney for DAVID H. MITCHELL III, an objector

to the current Selective Service laws, who was to be trie

connecticut seen is i let (USD) Hartford,

II. INFORMATION RELATIVE TO THE

SCHEDUIED PUBLICATION OF

SUBJECT'S BOOK, "RUSH TO

JUDCE ME NT"

advised that information

On December 31, 1965, NY I-1, previously mentioned,

had come to his attention indicating

that subject's book,

"Rush To Judgement"

, dealing with the

assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY, at Dallas,

Texas on November 23, 1963, had been advertised in England

and was expected to be published there in March, 1966.

According to NY T-1

"Rush To Judgement" would run to

125,000 words.

- 2 -

SECRET

330-00385

DocId: 32312005 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

SECRET

on January 12, 1956, NY T-2,

a confidential

source abroad, turnished a copy of the Danish newspaper

"Lolland-Falsters Folketidende

which in part stated as follows:

' Issue of January 4, 1966,

"Mark Lane has now finished' reading the proofs

of his book dealing with the assassination of President

Kennedy and entitled. 'Rush to Judgement.

"After having spent Christmas and New Year with DENMATS

his parents-in-law, Mr. and Mrs.

F"., Mark Lane and his wife flew to London where the book

to be published by Bodley Head, publishers, London,

in April 1966. Six months after its appearance, the

reprinted in a paper-back edition

twelve countries.

niversity, has written a preface to the book,

that in its evaluation of what happened in Dallas,

stating

history must take into account both the Warren Report

and Mark Lane's book.".?

NY I-2 further advised that subject's book

would possibly appear as a series of articles in the

"Daily Telegraph"

, a newspaper

published in London, England.("

On February 24, 1966, NY I-3 advised that the

American printing of

"Rush To Judgement" was being prepared

by Viking Press, located in New York City.

NY T-3 stated

that in checking the manuscript, Viking Press had discovered

inaccuracies and exaggerations which they demanded the

subject clarily. NY I-3 advised that subsequently the

subject informed Viking Pres:

could change the

manuscript to their satisfaction.

III. INFORMATION RELATING

TO SUBJECT'S

SCHEDUIED PRODUCTION OF A DOCUMENTARY

FILM ENTITIED, "RUSH TO JUDGEMENT"

On December 31, 1965, NY I-1, previously mentioned,

advised that the subject

and one RICHARD LORD STARK

planned to produce a film to be entitled,.

"Rush To Judgement,"

which would be based on the subject's book on the assassination

I PreSident JOIN F. KENUEDY. NY I-1 stateù that a companis (4)

- 3 -

SECREDI

9900 10335

DooId:32312005 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Totej:

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-117844

SECRET,

his years at St. Thomas College, DE

ANTONIO

had attended many Communist Party (CP) meetings

and had taken an active part in attempting

to obtain new members for the CP. (u

On June 28, 1965, the records of the

Motion Picture Association of America,

New York City, reflected that EMITE

DE ANTONIO was the Director and one

of the producers of the picture

"Point of Order"

nearings conducted by ine dal lur the

Senator JOSEPH MC CARTHY. CH

On January 12, 1966, NY I-2, previously mentioned,

furnished information which appeared in the Danish

newspaper,

"Lolland-Falsters Fölketidende"

January 4, 1966, concerning the subject. NY I-2 stated

that an article reflected that a documentary full-length

film, based on the subject's book, will be made in the

near

future.

The article also noted that the film will be

under the direction of EMIIE DE ANTONIO and will incorporate

some films taken during and after the assassination of

President KENNEDY by the American Broadcasting System and

It was pointed out that

in February, 1966, the subject and his associates would

travel to Dallas, Texas, where they intended to interview

witnesses to the

assassination (e).

In part, the above article read led 4)

"This film is also to be shown in the United

States where the massive opposition to Mark Lane's views

of the Kennedy tragedy has declined considerably. The

film may possibly be released by the company 'Allied

Artists'; if not, Mark Lane will hire cinemas in New York'

and Dallas and show the film there,.

distributed to film clubs all over

On March 29, 1966, Mrs. JEAN LOLLIS HILL, 9402 Bluff

Creek, Dallas, Texas,

advised Special Agent (SA) ROBERT

P. GEMBERLING that during the previous week, she had been

telephonically contacted on several occasions by an individual

identifying himself as DE ANTONIO, who indicated that he and

- 7 - SECRET

590-10359

DoeId:32312005 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2TU7"Hötey

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONTIDET

SECRET

AL

NY 100-117844

SECREZI

V. FOREIGN TRAVEL

On December 31, 1965, NY. I-1, previously mentioned,

advised

that on December 12, 1965, the subject departed

Englana en route to Toronto, Canada, in the company of

SCHOENMAN of the Bertrand Russell Peace- Foundation.

NY T-I stated SCHOENMAN returned to England on December 19,

On February 24, 1966, Inspector WALTER AUSMAN,

INS, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Queens, New

York, advised subject arrived in New York that date at

3:30 p.m. as a passenger on Trans-World Airlines, flight

number 703, which originated. in London, England.

Inspector

AUSMAN advised subject travelled under United States

passport number E067352, and gave his United States address

as 75 Montgomery Street, New York City. (4)

SECREIN

15*

SECRET

JAITUBGAIDO CONPIDENFIAL

S30-10339

DoeId: 32312005

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 US. 7107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-11-2017

-PD-323, (Rev. 11-29-61)

it.

UNITED STATES.DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

May 11, 1966

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Bureau 100-409763

New York 100-117844

SECRET?

Title

Mark Lane

Character

Security Matter - C

Reference

is made to report of :

Special Agent Benjamin P. Mc Manus,

dated

and

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

NY I-1 and NY I-2 are [confidential sources

abroad e

NY T-3, who was in a position to furnish

reliable information.

Razer.

SECRETL

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

lle

DocId: 32312005 Page 9

---

