# docid-32297150

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10218-10426

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4474-1ST NR 204

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/10/1965

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, BOMBING MISSION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32297150. Page

1

12

Date:

6/4/2015

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBjECT

ON

7/23/97 0A3/R

CLASS

EXT

REASON-FCIM

DATE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

30:0-107-02

MAY IN: LOITION

LogA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STA GO. NMENT

Memorandur

TOTAL DENIAL

EVERETT DENNIS JACKSON

IS - CUBA

NM

RELEASE IN PART

i..-0803, 751 (105-126660)

DATE:

5-10-65

X SiC, MIAMI

Cons: ent 1a2

(105-8919) (0)..

DECTISSITTED EY SPEEJANIC

(mIcA

AINED

ED

EXCEPT

ON-

9/00/85

ReBulet to Mr. J. WALTER VRAGLEY,

stant Attorney General, dated 4-20-05, in the

acove-captioned matter.

By Form FD 376, dated 4-30-65, a copy of

Lend TiM dated 4-16-65,

was furnished to Secret

Juvice, Miami, specifying subject JACKSON as an

individual falling within category six.

On 5-7-65,

the information selating to

ISFASTESA, who resides at 3253 MCDonala Street,

Miami,

Lorida, relative to his possession or a

caliber weapon

and the possession, as of 4-12-65,

of a home-made bomb, was furnished to officer

GEORGE STRINGER Of the Miami POlice Department and

to IRENE SCHUBOWSKI, secretary in the Intelligence

Division of the Dade County Sheriff's Office, Miami.

On 5-7-65, Cuscoms Agent AL YARBROUGH,

Miami, Florida, advised that since receipt of information

Irom the Miama FBI Offile on 4-15-65, relative to

activities of subject JACKSON, he, YARBROUGH, has been

in regular contact with JACKSON, utilizing him as a

source with the purpose of developing evidence of

violation of the Neutrality Law on the pazi of ORLANDO

BOSCH and members of the latter's organization at Miami.

92-4474-

=- Bureau (RM)

NOT HECORDECAO

1-Miami

133 MAY 19 6

JJO/al

25 MAY 1,2 1965

C WAY 1 91985

HH 54027 DocId:32297150 Page 2

5718/65

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

GINAL

---

## Page 3

MM 105-8919

cops atlal

on 4-27-65, JACKSON reported that he had

contacted ISRAEL MESA

and mage arrangements to meet MESA,

ORLANDO BOSCH, and MARCELINO GARCIA on the night of

4-27-65, at the offices of the MIRR (MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAI

REVOLUCIONARIO DE RECUPERACION), BOSCH's organization.

On

the night of 4-27-05, a surveillance was maintained in the

vicinity of the MIRR office and while it was observed that

JACKSON appeared at that office, no one showed up.

on 5-7รท65, PSI FRANK RODRIGUEZ advised that

EVERETT JACKSON has continued to maintain some contact with

The PSI further advised that ORLANDO BOSCh of the

MIRR has stated that he places no trust in JackSoN.

RODRIGUEZ

said it was not clear whether BOSCH's lack of trust in JACKSON

related to JACKSON's capability for a raid or whether it

antained to a suspicion that JACKSON might have contact with

ar inorities.

In view of the fact U. S. Customs is currently

utilizing -ACKSON in an inormant capacity ana theredy

maintaining some control over his activities, no further

action In this case is contemplated by the Miami Division.

HH 54027

DocId: 32297150

Page

3

---

