# docid-32290067

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10343

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-306

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/08/1962

140

THP, GAMBLING ACT, LEGISLATION, CORRUPTION,

POLIT/POLICE, STATE OF MS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1b-Id, INDEX PAGES I-XX.

v9.1

HH 45760

DocId: 32290067

Page 1

---

## Page 2

33

4

FEA

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

REAU OF

SATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

CRIME CONDITIONS IN

MISSISSIPPI

DATE

3/8/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/7 - 28/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA REGIS L. KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

botT

TYPED BY

10p Hoodlam Program

ANTI-RACKETEERING

BureaU Sur

REFERENCES

airtel to Albany dated 1/30/62.

LEADS

One copy this report designated for Memphis since

northern part of Mississippi covered by that office.

INFORMANTS

NO I-1 is NO 1115-C, Bay St. Louis, Mississippi

NO T-2 is NO 1017-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-3 is PCI

New Orleans, Louisiana

JEK Act 6 (4)

NO T-4 is NO. 1174-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-5 is NO 1002-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

P

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1- des

560₴

25

Bureau

DIAIZIUN

+ 62-19-33+306

REC- 106

Memphis

(Info)bECIVrIMAEZLICULINE

New

Orleans

(2: 924346)50

REC- 44

(1:

92-346-I)

(1:

92-346-J)

(1:

92-346-K)

(1:

92-346-M) PT

1921316

: (1:

92-346-0)

1 2 2,093 15 1

ine

Cc.

AG Oriminal Division

EBI

1 0-6.

DISSEMINATION

MAY

PROPERTY OF FBI.--Th

FRICTED TO JU

96

3 am

on Z5

ICE DEPARTMENT

„Uso! vi

.8.5

74 45760

Doc

067

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-346

NO T-6 is PCI

NO TaT is

Gulfport, Mississippi

gambler and bookmaker at Gulfport,

Mississippi

NO T-8 is NO 1056-C, Marion County, Mississippi

NO T-9

is PCI

Marion County, Mississippi

NO T-10 is NO 1178-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-11 iS JOHN E. MONTGOMERY, Special Agent, Internal

Revenue Service, Intelligence Unit, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-12 is Captain HARRY TRANSUE, Law Enforcement Officer,

Provost Marshal's Office, Keesler AFB, Mississippi

NO T-13 is NO 1024C, Gulfport, Mississippi.

NO T-14 is NO 1131-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

JEK Act 6 (4)

NO T-15 is NO 1190-C, Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-16 is Chief of Police C. E. VANN, Picayune, Mississippi

Police Department, who was

Chief of

Detectives, Harrison

County Sheriff's Office, Gulfport, Mississippi

at the time

information

attributed to him was furnished.

NO T17 is PCI

New Orleans, Louisiana

NO T-18 is

Mr. CLEVE ALLEN, JR., owner of Gulfport Pepsi-Cola

Bottling Company

NO T-19 is

former PCI at Gulfport, Mississippi

NO T-20 is Mrs. ELIZABETH WARREN, Long Beach, Mississippi,

ex-wife of known hoodlum "SNOOKS" WARREN, Jackson, Miss-

issippi

NO T-21 is EARL RILEY, former Special Agent and operator of

Earl Riley Associates, private investigative agency at

Poplarville, Mississippi

B

COVER PAGE

-30b

NW 45760 DooId: 32290067 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-346

NO T-22 is PCI

Picayune, Mississippi

NO T-23 is NO 1139-C, Picayune, Mississippi

NO T-24 is

former PCI at New Orleans,

Louisiana

"JEK Act 6 (4)

NO T-25 is

former New Orleans PCI

at Gulfport,

Mississippi, presently a détective with the

Gulfport Police Department

NO T-26 is ROBERT A. WILSON, Ocean Springs, Mississippi,

former Special Agent

NO T-27 is

New Orleans PCI at Pass Christian,

Mississippi

NO T-28 is MILTON BARNES, Forrest County, Mississippi

NO T-29 is TED WILLIAMS, Agent, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Unit,

Meridian, Mississippi

NO T-30 is Patrolman C. F. CARTER, Mississippi Highway Safety

Patrol, Waynesboro, Mississippi

NO T-31 is NO 983-C, Natchez, Mississippi

NO T-32 is NO 1091-C, Vicksburg, Mississippi

ADMINISTRATIVE

With regard to the information contained in this

report, dissemination has been made to local and federal law

enforcement agencies where appropriate

as' the information was

developed.

However, it is to be noted that with regard to

gambling and illicit liquor operations in many instances

dissemination has not been made to city, county and state

authorities because these authorities are already aware of

these operations and allow these

illegal operations to

exist and flourish within tne

various areas

alluded to in

this report.

C

COVER PAGE

NW 45760 DooId: 32290067 Page 4

---

