# docid-32424013

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: ARMY

RECORD NUMBER :

198-10007-10020

RECORD SERIES: CALIANO PAPERS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the Johr

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

collection act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54214 Date:

09-12-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: STATE

FROM: ROBERT A. HURWITCH

TO: ATTORNEY GENERAL

TITLE: ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS TO PREVENT PIN-PRICK RAIDS AGAINST CUBA

DATE: 04/01/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

EXILE RAIDS ON CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Califano Papers, Box 24, Folder 10. Memo for the Attorney General from Hurwitch re: actions and

recommendations to prevent pin-prick raids against Cuba.

JFK Rever

ebarment of the Army EO 1352

• Deciassi

# Exclude

• Exempt

Authority -

NO STATE OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

-DATE 01/14/16

v9.1

HH 54214

DocId: 32424013 Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

This document consists of

No.

114

• pages

• Copies, Series.

GRCUP 1

autonatio

dougrading and

daciassificacion

April 1, 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Attorney General

SUBJECT:

Actions and Recommendations to Prevent

Pin-Prick Raids against Cuba

At the Miami meeting (March 29-30), the group learned

that ten exile raiding operations were planned for the

immediate future and recommended the following actions:

1. Authorize Coast Cuard to dispatch aircraft to

watch over Norman Key in the

Bahamas, from which

action appeared imminent.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

Aircrati dispatched.

2.

Obtain British cooperation in preventing action

from the Norman Key and other Bahama islands

and seek British permission for Coast Guard to

land men as necessary.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

British Ambassador, informed of U.S.

concern. over raids, was receptive to

suggestion of British cooperation. CIA and

FBI arranged to provide British Intelligence

continuing Information regarding proposed

raids that night involve British territory.

British Embassy action officer undertook

to act immediately on intelligence.

Twenty man Bahamian police force landed

at Norman Key at dawn March 30 and detained

two Americans and one Cuban (names not yet

known) who arrived by airplane while police

were chere.

Still closer arrangements with

British will be pursued. Miami Coordinator

will go to Nassau this week.

3. Authorize INS to impose departure controls over

suspected Cubans and Americans.

Current status:

HH 54214 DocId:32424013 Page 2

ET

---

## Page 3

- 2.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

Llst of 29 highly suspect Cubans agreed

upon by Miami intolligence agencies. INe

served 25 with warnings not to depart U.S.

and, in case of parolees, not to depart Dade

County, Florida. State and Justice legal

staffs agreed upon procedure for controlling

departure of suspect Anericans; policy

officers will consider implications.

4. Authorize Coast Guard and Customs to impound

suspect boats.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

Coast Guard and Customs informed.

5. If personnel involved in contemplated raids are .

parolees, authorize appropriate agencies to warm

and/or detain suspected parolees. (INS can detain

suspected parolees for brief or extended periods

for having violated the condition of their parole).

CurrentSStatus: White House approved warnings

but not detention. INS should be permitted

to detain suspects who ignore warnings.

Decision Equested.

6. Warn all exile suspects that U.S. desires raids

to stop and is prepared to take necessary action.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

Suspects are being informed.

7.

Issue policy statement as soon as possible.

Current Status:

Approved by White House.

Joint State-Justice policy statement issued

March 30.

8.. Initiate intensified surveillance of prime suspects

NH 54214 DocId:32424013 Page 3

---

## Page 4

9.

-3 -

Current Status: Approved by White House.

Intensified surveillance being conducted.

Study question of prosecution of suspectsawho

are generally undesisable.

Current Status: Approved by White House.

The Miami group also recommended the following sustained

actions to dininish the number of raids over the long run,

for whichapproval is required.

*1. Authorize Coast Guard to conduct daily air sur-

veillance of the Bahamas.

**2.

Authorize Coast Cuard to maintain continuous

boat surveillance of the Bahamas.

3. Issue periodical statements to educate the public

on United States policy, as elaborations upon the

March 30 basic statement.

4.

Publicize raiding plans of exiles as they become

known.

5. Authorize INS to detain suspect raiders.

6. Prosecute selected cases.

7. Continue intensified intelligence collection.

8.

* Coast Guard now has 4 Albatross aircraft and would

need 4 to 6 more (possibly from Navy).

Coast Giard

has 3 helicopters and would need 4 more,

Coast Guard

now has two 95-foot patrol boats and would need 6 more.

With additional equipment Coast Guard believes it

would have a 50% chance of detecting raids.

HH 54214 DocId:32424013 Page 4

---

## Page 5

***3.

9.

10.

11.

Request Customs, Coast Guard and INS to intensify

present programs.

War persons who may assist raiders, such as

boat charterers and fund

contributors.

Develop guidance for more fruitful exile activities

Include Puerto Rico in all foregoing programs.

(As the Miami area tightens, many suspects will

shift to Puerto Rico; additional funds, per-

sonnel andequipment would be needed to control

activities there.

Robert A. Hurwitch

Deputy Coordinator of

Cuban Affairs.

* If Customs is to pick up and hold on to suspect boats,

it would need 65 more men in order to cover the 500 mile

coast line.. Coast Guard gave Customs one 30-foot boat

on March 30 and Custons urgently needs one more 35-foot boat

for the Key West area.

HH 54214 DooId:32424013 Page 5

---

