# docid-32316093

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10346-10213

RECORD SERIES:

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-670

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/25/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316093

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection dot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

BU 92-61

On 1/19/63, BU 280-C* reported that STEVE MAGADDINO

was present at the Magaddino Memorial Chapel from 3:03 PM

until 3:16 PM that day.

This information was furnished the Bureau and

New York Office by airtel,

dated 1/22/63 under the caption

"CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,"

It was noted that information

received from NY 3461-C-TE indicated that CHARLES LOCICERO,

SAM PERITORE, SALVATORE BADALAMENTI, ard BENNY D'ALASSANDERO

sometime between

pose of this meeting was to discuss a situation in the

JOE MAGLIOCCO Family

to the

"Commission"

and how much

of this "family"

they control. They would also discuss

also indicated that STEVE MAGADDINO was

their discontent with MAGLIOCCO as boss "chairman" of the

NY 3461-C-TE.

"Commission"

, however he did not indicate whether or not he -

was referring to MAGADDINO as chairman of all members of the

"Commission"

or just the "Magaddino family.

On 1/19/63, BU 280-C* advised that PEIER A.

MAGADDINO instructed his cousin, PETER J. MAGADDIN®, to

accompany ANTONIO MAGADDINO to

Room 308, Equitable Life

Insurance Company, in

• the Manufacturers and Traders Trust

Company Building in Niagara Falls, New York, regarding

their mortgage insurance.

He instructed PETER J. MAGADDINO

that he was supposed to be there at 11:30 AM that day.

Informant stated that he learned from ANTONIO MAGADDINO

that JOE BONGI (JOSEPH BONGIORNO, aka Joseph Bongiovanni)

1S ANTONIO MAGADDINO's nephew.

Shortly after noon that day, informant reported

that "BROOKLYN JOE" MALAKOWSKY appeared at the Magadaino

Memorial Chapel.

As previously reported, STEVE MAGADDINO was

present at the Magaddino Memorial Chapel between 3:03 PM

and

3:16 PM that day with PETER A. MAGADDINO.

BU280-0* advised that CONNIE CICCARELLA (PH) ,

who works

for the telephone company as an operator,

contacted

the Magaddino Memorial Chapel and apparently

talked with PETER A. MAGADDINO.

Informant stated that

PETER A. MAGADDINO

was Interested in identifying CONNIE

-3-

DocId: 32316093 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleotion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61

The above Information concerning MAGADDINO's

overeating and the after effects are set out in view of

the fact that New York informant 3461-C-IE Indicated

there was to be a meeting between January 16 and the end

of the week by members of the

"Commission.

on 1/22/63, BU 280-C* advised that he oeserved

"BROOKLYN JOE"

MALAKOWSKY and STEVE MAGADDINO at the

Magaddino Memorial Chapel between 11:05 and 11:16 AM

that day. He stated that PETER A. MAGADDINO and ANTONIO

MAGADDINO were also present during the day at the funeräl

home.

On 1/23/63, BU 280-C* advised that STEVE MAGADDINO

was present at the Magaddino Memorial Chapel that morning

and made reference to an explosion in his oil furnace which

has caused him to decide to convert his heating system at

his home into gas furnace. Informant stated that around

11:51 AM that morning a man, he thought possibly was a police

officer named JOHNNY LAMARCA, from the Niagara Falls PD,

appeared at the Magaddino Memorial Chapel and discussed

the

health of his family with STEVE MAGADDINO.

Informant stated

that

a great portion of the conversation between JOHNNY

LAMARCA and MAGADDINO was in a Sicilian dialect. He stated,:

however,

that JOHNNY LAMARCA (PH) made reference to someone

known as

"VINNIE"

, who

"crossed a wire some place.

Everything

was all set. I was going to meet him. At Buffalo he screwed

He used to have a llttle tavern on Cayuga Drive.

Informan staked the parently JOHNNY LAMaßed has been

asked to retire by

who is going to be installed as

president of the Pine Avenue Businessmen's Association.

LAMAReA made it a point to explain to MAGADDINO that

"PETE"

(INU) was against him (LAMARCA) •

The informant stated that the conversation between

LAMARCA and MAGADDINO

continued and reference was made to someone

going to see STEVE MAGADDINO and begging that he, meanne the

unidentified man, be made Chief of Police in Niagara Falls,

New York.

On 1/24/63, BU 280-C* advised that PETER A. MAGADDING

discussed with members of the

"Magaddino family" that he

felt that the thing (gourme club dinner) should be postponed

that night because of

the weather conditions

-5-

DocId: 32316093

Page 3

---

