# docid-32302390

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10281-10110

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-12-528

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45960 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/16/1964

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JEST, ASSOC, CIVELLO, JOSEPH FRANCIS, MELVIN,

RICHARD, REL, TRA, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45960

DocId: 32302390

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FP-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

1is084/20101

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mc. 'DeLoach

Mr. Casper

FBI.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conraa L

Mr. Evans

Date:

11/16/64

Mr. Gale_.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr.

Sullivan

Tavel.

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Miss

Gandy.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM :

OS/SAC, DALLAS (91-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

PROGRAm

or de...

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 11/9/64.

Re: JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, aka.

AR (DL 92-36)

DALLAS,TEXA

JOE

On 11/10/64, JOSEPH CIVELLO and his brother-in-

law ROSS MUSSO were observed to leave their residence at

4908 Gulfstream and proceed to the Brook Hollow Country

Club where

JOE CIVELLO was observed to enter the club

and ROSS MUSSO to remain outside the club, standing near

the automobile.

JOE CIVELLO returned to the automobile

approximately four minutes later and they proceeded directly

to the Airway Liquor Store, 3122 Mockingbird Lane.

They remained at the liquor store for approximately

15 minutes, talking with CIVELLO's brother, CHARLES CIVELLO

and then proceeded to the residence of their cousin, CHARLES

J. SANSONE, who is a Dallas police officer assigned to the

Auto Theit

After approximately 3 minutes they

departed the SANSONE residence and drove directly to the

residence on Gulfstream.

3

Bureau

1

- Dallas

(92-36)

∞ Dallas

(137-1387)

1 - Dallas

(162-37)

#I-: Dallas

(162-264)

1 - Dallas

(166-124)

1 = Dallas (94-55A-SUB)"

i. IDL/ 11

(9)

REC-64\

629.12-528

NOt 2419u

70103

C. C. Wick:

Approve

69 DEC 2

196<pecial Agent in Charge

NW 45960 DooId: 32302390 Page 2

Sent

_M

Per

---

## Page 3

1/

DI 94- 55A-SUB

On 11/16/64. It was ascertained from the records of

the Southwestern Bell

Telephone Co. that ROSS MUSSO's new tele-

phone number is

AD 9-8683 for their address at 4908 Gulfstrean.

The above information was furnished to H. M. HART,

Detective, Criminal Intelligence Section, Dallas PD and Special

Agent JAMES GANN, IRS, Dallas, Texas.

Re: RICHARD MELVIN, aka.

ITAR - GAMBLING (DL 166124)

TEXA

Om 11/9/64, MOLVIN's 1963 Chevrolet bearing 1964

Florida license plates lW167732, was observed parked in front

of his residence

at approximately 1:30 pm. This is the first

time that MELVIN's automobile has been observed since his departure

ITO Dallas, Texas on 10/27/64.

At approximately 1:38 pm a white female was observed

to park a red MG convertible bearing 1964 Texas license NH 2078

directly behind MELVIN's automobile and proceed to MELVIN's

apartment.

The Dallas County license bureau records reveal, the

above license plates issued to Mrs. MARY VECTORIA POWELL REMELY,

6214 Woodland Street, Dallas, Texas. Previous investigation

determined that REMELE is a current

friend of MeLVIN's.

On 11/10/64, MELVIN and DI-185-C-TE were observed

near the pay phone booth in the Park Rite Parking Garage,

1907 Commerce Street. Each were observed to be making telephone

calls from the above telephone booth.

DI 185-C-TE subsequently contacted the Dallas Office

of the fBI to advise thet MeLVIN had stated he had returned to

money.

MELVIN advised informant that they returned to Dallas In

an effort to raise money in order to make a teturn trip to las

Vegas attempting to regain their losses.

Informant related that MELVIN had contacted DAVIS frOM

the

pay booth at the parking garage, attempting to make plans

for their return trip to las Vegas.

2

HH 45960 DooId:32302390 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 94-55A- SUB

Subsequent to

that date MELVIN was observed by Bureau

Agents to leave his residence and proceed to & neighborhood

theater and remain there

for the afternoon.

He was not observed

to contact anyone during the time he was in the theater.

On 11/13/64, MELVIN was observed leaving the vicinity

of his apartment house in his 1963 white Chevrolet approximately

10:15 am.

The above information was furnished to H. M. HART,

Detective, Criminal Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD and Special

Agent JAMES GANN, IRS, Dallas, Texas, On

11/13/64.

Re:

JOHN EL

STONE

IGA

DL 16237)

On 11/9,10,13/64, STONE's 1964 Oldsmobile I-85 convertible

was observed parked on a side street near the Tanglewood North

Apartments, 3909 - 39 Inwood Road sometime between the hours

of 10 am and 12

moon. It is noted that his sister, MARY IU

MILLION resides in Apt. 101, 3909 Inwood Road..

'above information was furnished to H. M.

HART,

TEXAS

Detective, Criminal

Intelligence Section, Dallas PD and to

JAMES GANN, Special Agent, IRS, Dallas, On 1l/13/64.

On 11/13/64, JAMES GANN, Special Agent,

Criminal

ntelligence Section, IRS, Dallas,

Texas, advised

ÜEK Law 11(a)

TEXAS

DRS

REVIEWED BY SENTY TASK FORCE

ON 626.98.200

I7 TOTAL DENIAL :

3

HH 45960

DocId: 32302390

Page 4

---

