# docid-32305854

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hofe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

• Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10288-10484

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2333

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 05/24/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, LICATA, NICOLO, LEADERSHIP BOSS, INVESTMENTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32305854

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 USC USC Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev.

5-22-64)

• DI

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date:

5/24/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO :

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1112)

LA

COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

00: NEW YORK

As the Bureau is aware, LA 4448-C-TE is a member

informant of extreme value to the Los Angeles office and the

Bureau concerning information of importance to the Criminal

Intelligence Program and, in particular, concerning the

activities of LCN both on a national and a local basis.

LA 4711-C-TE, while not an Italian 1s extremely

close to LCN leadership in the Los Angeles area and as been

a close confidant of LIN leaders for many Jears. The primar

source of income derived by the LCN in the Los Angeles area

is either made as a result or due to the activities of

LA 4711-C-TE.

LA 4711-C-TE, on 5/24/68, reported the following

information which was learned by him several days prior in

a conversation he had with LCN BOss NICOLO LICATA.

LICATA, in general conversation concerning LCN

investments without any prelude, warned this informant to

stay away from and not have anything to do with LA 4448-C-TE

because this individual, according to LICATA, was an informant

for the FBI. LICATA did not explain nor did he give any

- Bureau

-

Los Angeles

JRB/mjg

(5)

C. C. - Bishop

messy 92-6054-2333

112 MAY 2'7 1968

Zo

Approved:

5JUN (A

Sent

M

Per

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32305854 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released" under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 717 USe 2107-Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 92-1112

indication that any ramifications would result or that there

was any danger to the life of LA 4448-C-TE, but, according

to informant, merely made this known to him as a precaution

so that he would not have confidential conversations.

The exact detailed significance of the above

information is not known to the Los Angeles Division at this

time and, based on the above information, contacts witr

logical informants are being observed closely in an effort

to pick up any information which would bring forth the

significance of the above conversation.

It is noted that the Agent having contact with

LA 4711-C-TE in no way gave any indication when this

information was learned that LA 4448-C-TE was

a source of the

Bureau and in order to protect the identity of this informant,

no detailed specific questions were asked. However, the

informant volunteerod that this was the extent of the

information furnished to him and stated that he had no

additional information in this regard.

The Bureau will be kept closely advised of any

information learned in this regard.

MIAICIOn

BECETAAR

-2-

DocId: 32305854 Page 3

---

