# docid-32346958

## Page 1

Date: 03/26/02

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION

SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10063-10407

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM

DOJ/FBI

TO :

TITLE : MEMO RE THE PEOPLE'S COALITION FOR PEACE AND JUSTICE

(PCPJ) •

DATE : 03/09/72

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : CIVIL DISORDER

PCPJ

POLITICAL ORG

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: JFK10:F6 1993.07.15.15:04:41:310540: INFO RELATED TO A 3

DAY REGIONAL; PER ARRB 10/97, NOT ASSASSINATION RELATED

-DIF CONFERENCE OF THE PCPJ HELD IN SEATTLE WASH. FEB.

19-21, 1972.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DocId: 32346958

Page

1

---

## Page 2

A5.

In Replji Picase Refer 80

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

Seattle, Washington

March

9, 1972

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

PEOPLE'S COALITION FOR

PEACE AND JUSTICE (PCPJ)

The PCPJ was described in a press

release, issued by the organization

on 3/1/71; as being headquartered

at Washington, D. C., and consist-

ing of over, 100 organizations em

ploying nassive civil disobedience

to combat the issues of war, racism

and repression.

Characterizations of many other organizations re~

ferred

to herein are set forth at the end of this communica-

tion.

This memorandum contains a summary of information

relating to a three-day Regional Conference of the PCPJ held

at Seattle, Yashineton, February 19-21, 1972.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Leadership of Conference and of PCPJ.

Page No.

2

This document contains neither

reconmendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside

your agency.

IS COPY,

CONF IDENT IAL

10565

Group I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification.

DBD 32821

100-300-85

HW 50529 DocId: 32346958 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDÈNTIAL

On February 25, 1972, a source reported a three-

day Regional Conference of the

PCPJ was held at the Univer-

sity Christian Church, 4731 15th Avenue N. E., Seattle,

Washington, February 19-21, 1972. Registration of ithe

delegates

was handled by TAIMI HALONEN, a member of the

Communist Party (CP) and of the Seattle Women Act for peace

(SWAP) and by ANCI KOPPEL, head of SWAP. The registration

fee of $5 included several meals served during the conference.

AL KEIST, area chairman, of the Fellowship of Re-

conciliation (FOR)

was the conference chairman. Co-chairmen

of the PCPJ at the time of the conference were JIll BRUNBAUGH

ot the FOR and CP members, MARC BRODINE and TAIMI HALONEN.

Members of the PCPJ Steering committee were haRd BRODING,

LAINI HALONDA aNd THORUN ROBEL Of the CP; JIM BRUMBAUGH, AL

KEIST and MICHAEL BRUNSON Of FOR; ANCI KOPPEL Of SWAP;

MILTON KARR Of Clergy and Laymen Concerned (CALC); and LARRY

NORTHWOOD of the National Association of Social Workers

(NAST) .

ANCI KOPPEL, also known as ANNY

KOPIEL, MrS. CHARLES KOPPEL, HaS

reported in 1945 by a second

source as being a member at that

time of the Professional Group

of the Communist Political Asso

ciation (CPA), also known as the

Rogers Club of the CP.

The CPA has been designated pur-

suant to Executive Order 10450.

LAWRENCE KING NORTEWOOD, alSO

Known as LARRY NORTEWOOD, who is

a Professor of social Work at

University of Washington, Seattle,

was reported by a third source in

January, 1963,.as then being a CP

member.

On February 21, 1972, a fourth source furnished a

list of the registered delegates to the conference, plus in-

formation on the organization each represented (where given)

and the city from which he cane.

This information is tabu-

lated hereafter by Province or Siato, cities therein and the

delegate's names listed alphabetically:

= 2-

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50529

DocId: 32346958 Page

3

---

## Page 4

SPCPJ

ELLINGSON, SHIRLEY

HAGA, MARK

HOWARD, RICHARD

BUFF, LARRY

PARKS III, WILLIAM

THOMAS, CLIFF

WINSCHING, CARL

CASSIDY, EMILIA

CASSIDY, JIM

ELLISON, NAOMI

JACKSON, RUTH

JOANSON, LEON

JOENSON, RUBY

JONES, CHRIS

BARKERZELL, CLAUDE

LINDBERG, ERIC

LINDBERG, KIM

LIVINGSTON, BRIAN

NEW, HARGIE

WOLFE, DENISE

• MISCELLANEOUS:

ALEXANDER, MORTON

ANDREYS GUEST (#1)

ANDREYS GUEST (#2)

BAILEY, ROSELLA

CORLEN, BOB

DICKENSON, COLLEEN

DOYLE, CELESTE

GRANT, DONNA

BAYES, PATRICK

IRISH, JORGIE

ISTAS

KERR; ROBERT

KRAEL, MAIA

KAC KRACKEN, GARY

IC CORMICK, EMMETT

NESS, CAROL

NORTHWOOD, LARRY

NORTHWOOD, OLGA

Spokane

Spokane

Spokane

Spokane

Spokane

Spokane

Spokane

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacoma

Tacona

Tacoma

Tacoma

Vancouver

Vancouver

Vancouver

Portland

Portland

_ 6 -

CONFIDENTIAL

Youth Coalition

COAM

COAM

COAM •

Fairchild AFB

Gonzaga Draft

.Coun.

COAM

Tacoma Women

for peace:

WREN

OKAY Center

OKAY Center

OKAY Center

N.End. Wel Rights

WYDC

CALC

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 50529

DocId: 32346958

Page

4

---

