# docid-32336983

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90136-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-70973-7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HAV

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/30/1958

3

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32336983

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• STAN'JARD FO...

NO. B4

Office Memorandum • UNITED STAT IS GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI (105-70973 COXI

ENTIAL DATE: October 30, 1958

CLASS. &

FROM

Legat, Havana (105-395)

REASON-FCIM IT

DATE OF REVIEW

Lon SUBjECT:

WILLIAM ALEXANDER

MORGAN

IS - CUBA

ReBulet 10/3/58, to Miami with copies to Havana and

Cleveland offices. (u)

Enclosed are four copies of a photograph taken from a

leaflet submitted to this office by Lieutenant Roberto Vila (conceal),

investigating agent for the Cuban Army Military Intelligence Service

According to Lieutenant Vila, this leaflet was published by

the Directorio Revolucionario, which is the insurrectionary group

fighting in the Escambray Mountais in /Cuba. The caption under the

photograph, of which copies are erclosed, indicated that persons in

the photograph were FAURS CHOMON,

Dr. ENRIQUE RODRIGUEZ LOECHER,

ARMANDO PLOTTED LUIS BLANCA, Lucionar 10,

"the North/ American WILLIAM MORGAN.

" This caption did not specifically

indicate which of the persons was MORGAN. (gu

It is suggested that these photographs be made available

to the Miami and Cleveland offices for assistance in their investi

gation in this matter.C

Lieutenant Vila

advised on October 28, 1958, that he has

received no further information corroborating the

report of subject's

death. (DU)

It is noted that a lead was set out for this office in

Miami letter to the Bureau 8/14/58,

suggesting that inquiries be made

at the Sevilla Biltmore Hotel in Havana where subject was reported to

have been a roommate of PETER KORENDA, an American tourist who was

killed in the hotel room during the attack on the Presidential Palace

on March 13, 1957.

Frank

Vidal,

manager of the Sevilla Biltnore Hotel, advised

on September 29, 1958,

that a thorough review of his records failed to

indicate

that

the subject or KORENDA had ever been registered at his

hotel.

DECLASSTRIED

04 10122

pomACIGATE

Enclosures

4

6 - Bureau

1 - Havana

з 21 bH.28 400

JJW: MEG

(7)

105-70973

53 bilL ca

NUENTIAL A 1953

ANOICH

6241(89118

NOTON CORTATI

NCIASSIFLED

SHOWN

AS INFOR

"HEREIN

OTHERW

NH 54462

DocTd: 32336983

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• 0

Havana 105-395

CON

XENTIAL

10-30-58

fine a "at

Records of the Welfare Unit of the U. S. Embassy, Havana,

indicate that PETER KORENDA

was actually a guest at the Regis Hotel

in room 501 in Havana where he was killed on March 13, 1958.

Roberto sanchez, manager of the Regis Hotel, advised on October 2,

1958, that he was thoroughly familiar with the circumstances

surrounding the death of KORENDA and advised he is certain that

the subject was not with KORENDA at that time. He advised that

records of his hotel failed to indicate that subject was ever a

guest there.

Four extra copies of this letter are submitted to the

Bureau for forwarding to the Miami (105-1563) and Cleveland Offices (4)

This office will continue to maintain contact with

Lieutenant Vila and other logical

sources for additional information

on this case. (RU)

(

HH 54462 DooId: 32336983

Page 3

---

