# docid-32287737

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10198-10013

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1108

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ADVICE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287737

Page 1

146

---

## Page 2

76o:1d-14-207

STATES GO

Memorandum

ENT

DIRECTOR, FBI

(92-3171)

DATE

63

FROM

SAC,

CHICAGO: (92-349)

SUBJECT

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Mr. ENJo

ALBRIGHT,

Mlinois,

1204 North State Street, Chicago

telephonically contacted

this oftice on July 17

1963 and said that he Isla businessman Inithe expor t-import

trade, dealing in lood machinery and other items u

He said he

is very disturbed over they recent events

and opinion rendered by Judge RICHARD B. AUSTIN against the

government in connection with the suit brought by GIANCANAy

in Judge AUSTIN's court.

ALBRIGHT is of the opinion that the

entire ith Districtyis the worst in the United States and

he stated he is interested in instigating some action to get

a:

#clean up"

He claimed to be very well acquainted with the

Attorney General and with Senator MC CLELLAN and, other prominents

Congressmen" in Washington.

ALBRIGHT

said he plans. to go

AtO

washington. for three days.in the very near futures to get

completeninvestigation by the senate Judiciary committeerof

Not the entre lth.circuit.i

08:

He said

he is red up withi

the mess!

in the Judiciary

nege and stated that a lot of other c

citizens have similar vievs

He said he just wanted to discuss his views with us and it

possible, obtain our views, and comments even if only loft the

Escord su

but emphatically advised that

or off the record. He said, he understood our position, but.

just vanted us to know how he felt about the entire situation u

ALBRIGHT is a current PCI of this office.

He travels

extensively in the United States and Europe, and is reported to

have a wide acquaintance?bean 1961 he was part-owner of the

Albright Sales Corporation,

14 West DiVision Street

of food processing equipment.

He has furnished information in

Security

orse and consider entonals dable ve

matter.

He 1s:57 years

Directon t

3

-Chicago

LA REC. 9.

1(1- 137

-38481

- 77-120791 INFORMa

AINED

8.50L 50L 23.463

DAT 4 aS P

SOSRP pay

322

Pages:2

---

## Page 3

CG'

92-349

i ti

is also noted that aLBRIGHtwas

the subject

of Buftle 105-96184

Chicago CiTe 105-9602,

in which he

was allegealy in contact with the Soviet Embassy in 1961

regarding travel to usSRi and with the Polish Consulate,

micagon concerning business promotion regarding his products

in Europea

he was also engaged, as an agent to secure then

sellease ofpaintings rom the Polish Governnent in 1963.

In July 19631

war complainuwas received. from the Director

International

Trade Fairs Chicago,&in which ALBRIGHT had

contacted the Director of German exhioits regarding his

desire, to sell"Broasted Chicken Equipment to the bast

Germans: 40X

The aboverinformationis furnished to the Bureau

in view. of PCIS contemplated trip to Washington to contact

prominenth individuals and in view oft

possible luture inquiries

that may be received. ue

---

