# docid-32561697

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Belmont

DATE: May 11, 1962

FROM

C. A. Evans

tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

Callahan _

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

Malone

Rosen.

Sullivan -

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy.

SUBJECT:

ANGELO

• 'BRUNO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

2-1

i cops

A Philadelphia informant who is being

• developed in connection

with the Top Echelon Criminal Informant Program reported that on the

week end of May 5, 1962, he went to New York City with John Cavelli,

a Philadelphia hoodlum, and spent the week-end at the home of

Dan Cherito.

Informant stated that a meeting took place at Cherito's

residence on May 6, 1962, which was attended by ten individuals,

including Phil Testa, who

is Bruno's chief lieutenant, who controls

Bruno's Philadelphia numbers operation.

The informant was not permitted

to enter the room where the meeting took place.

Informant pointed out

that aside from himself, Testa, and Cavelli, the remaining persons

were all from New York

City"with the exception of two from Boston.

Informant was introduced to a Henry Noise,.

and later identified a

photograph of Henry Selvitella as being identical with the individual

introduced to him as Noise. Selvitella is a Boston racketeer.

Informant related that Cavelli did not indicate to him the

purpose of the meeting, but did tell him that he wished him to accompany

him (Cavelli) in the near future on a trip to New York City in order

to deliver a large sum of money.

The informant stated that in his opinion,

the New York

meeting had something to do with Bruno's Philadelphia numbers operation

because of the presence

of Testa and Cavelli.

This information presents a definite opportunity to further

penetrate the operation of Bruno, who is the leader of the Italian

mob in that city.

ACTION

EX-105

REC- 50

72-2717-555

MAY 15 1962

The New York, Philadelphia and Boston Offices are being

instructed

to

investigation and to make every

effort to developia violation fünder. the new antigambling statutes.

maci

fet

Sad bad

NW 45737 DooId:32561697

Page 1

---

