# docid-32287919

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Hecords Collection Act of 1992 744 U5C 2107 Tote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10198-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1966

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/27/1967

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ADVICE, EVID, WHEREABOUTS, NEG

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

12/27/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287919

Page 1

90

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 21

DATE:

11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 1-27-66)

RED

DECODE

сОР У

AIRGRAM

IX* CABLEGRAM

RADIO

Tolson

= De Loach

SENE

RIVERSE

Mohr

Wick

SIDE FOR

Casper

Sonrar

ACTION

Felt

Gale

*Rosen

CONE I!

Sullivo

Tavel

TELETYPE

Trotte!

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

STATE 011

PATTOR 07:

SMar

GYMEHE

BUT.

URGENT 2-27-67

N-ECIM

VALE

OF

REVIE

TO DIRECTOR (92-3171)

9.

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 86

ICS

SÁUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, (AR.) D

AP-SPOTACE

STETTIDG

ALVESED 22 20

TING

SHIP (S) OF

DATE 10

REBUCAB FEBRUARY 16 LAST.(U)

CONTACTS WERE MADE BY AGENT OF THIS OFFICE IN ACAPULCO

WITH RELIABLE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS, POLICE OFFICIALS,

AND

BLISHED HOTEL, RESTAURANT, AIRLINE AND OTHER SOURCES

AND ALL

ADVISED THERE IS NO CLUB NACIONALE AND NO FIFTEEN

ROOM PENTHOUSE IN ACAPULCO.

LONE NEWLY COMPLETED APARTMENT HOUSE HAS PENTHOUSE.

THIS IS OCCUPIED BY THE GILBERT FAMILY FROM TEXAS. SUBJECT

, NOT KNOWN TO OPERATORS OF THE APARTMENT HOUSE. RECAB DID

NOT ADVISE IF POI WAS IN CHICAGO. BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO

HAVE CHICAGO ADVISE LAST KNOWN LOCATION OF SUBJECT.

{(a)

RECEIVED: 9:11 PM FBC

REC 20

FORGE

2-3111-

i: / 96660

AnAD

1967

VTION CONTAINED

CZASSIFILE

SHOWN

AT TIM

5-4

FORE

EXOE

BRD

CC: MR. BRENNAS

5 9MAR 9.

196726

If the intelligence contained in-the above message is to be dis

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic

CRASSIFTED BY

TANET FROM GDS, CA

D'HM OF DECLASSIFTCATION

NDEE INITE IT 78

eminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

ET

DocId: 32287919 Page 2

---

