# docid-32311397

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10314-10000

HQ

100-12632-203

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/18/1964

36

CHARLES SMALL, CHARLES N. SMOLIKOFF, AKA, BERTHE

MAY NEHAM SMOLIKOFF, AKA

DOCUMENT TYPE:, PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32311397

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECREL

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

MEXICO, D.

1.

BUREAU

114/18/64

12/3/63-10/27/64

RE

OF&MADE BY

CHARLES N

USMOLTRONE,

NATEIN DO TORRES

aka

BERTHE MAY NEHAM SMOLIKOFE,

algARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

SECURITY MATTER - C

DECLASSISICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE C. JIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP/114-98

SYNOPSIS:

TYPED BY

jhkr

#: 1 1 49-3-18-65

345

Angel Inn,

CHARLES SMALL continues to operate

= gift and curio shop and BERTHE SMALL is occupied as a house-

MARLOS CONCALALO

wife.

Both subjects continue to be prominent members of ACGM;

ALS UUCSASSIDIED

of which CHARLES SMALL reportedly wants to become leader.

Subjects gave cocktail party fur "National Guardian" tour

22 ROBAD SHOWN

CRARLES SMALL reported as furnishing monoy

tO CEDRIC and MARY BELFRAGE and to LINI DeVRIES to establish

their boarding houses, to BRYNA PRENSKY to open art galleries:

02X27ZT32

and to MAY BROOks to open art gallery: subjects gave party

house open

TOr EARD BARSIY during visit to Mexico

/ CHARLES SMAL

approved procurement of subscriptiong

for "National Guardian"

during 9/64 visit

"Tatlonel Guardian, " lenico of JANES

FRONTON,

Editor 01

He also furnishes communist literature

to friends who visit his store.

CHARLES SMALL reported as

continuing to contribute to PCM projects.

Subjects traveled

3/21/72

CLASSIFIED BY. 5668 SLD/GCL

-COPIES DESTROYED

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X0/6)

APPROVED

COPIES MATAUG 3 0 1973

erKY

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

jee

Cover Page

"B"

100-112632|203521

Bufiles

• 100-12632

100-421747

ST 109

MC files 100-1535

17. NOV 23 1964

100-1534

COPY FILED IN

49/747

UNRECORDED

NI CUTH

100-

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency ICC LUM RAC

stale

Cra

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

11/ 30/64

How Fwd.

-S

11/30/b4

21s

By

Notatiogs

1 all

1.3100

FagapeR

70 DEC3 196430

SEO,

30

DocId: 32311397

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Rove

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 100-1535

MC 100-1534

1.479

The

following information was received from former

MEX-18 and MEX-19, but is being included in the Administrative

section of this report rather than the dissemination section

since it shows close association with the subjects to an

extent which would assist in identifying the informants.

Informants advised on 5/12/64, that on 5/5/64,

NIX-18 had accompanied GERTRUDE SOLTKER (Bufile 100-271396),

who was visiting in Mexico, on a shopping trip, at which time

they went to CHARLES SMALL's store.

When they visited the

store, DAVID DRUCKER was present having a heated argument with

SMALL and complaining loudly about the impositions he had

suffered. SMALL alternately agreed and disagreed with him.

According to source,

the person being discussed noisily as

the source of DRUCKER's troubles was MARGARET LARKIN.

After

DRUCKER's departure, MEX-18 introduced SOLTKER tO SMALL, and

it appeared that each had heard of the other. SOLTKER and

SMAlL discussed the family of MORTON SOBELL, convicted atomio

spy, and SMALl stated that SYDNEY SOBELL, apparently one of

the

sOBElL daughters, would be in Mexico

for the summer.

On 5/12/64, informants advised that during the time

MEX-18 was in CHARLES SMALL'S store on 5/6/64, JEANETTE PEPPER

entered and told SMALL that

"someone" was in town whom SMALL

should "do something about." SWill said that he had already

done it and was seeing that person at his hotel and arranging

a dinner.

SMALL subsequently identified "that person" to

MEX-18 as LINUS PAULING (Bufile 100-353404). During the course

of the conversation between PEPPER and SMALL, however, PEPPER

"that person" was not the one she had in mind but she

was thinking of a

friend of "ERZIE." Informant subsequently

identified "ERZIE" as the widow of JOHN SEKELEY, a writer

who wrote the book, "Temptation," under the penname "JOHN

PEN" and lived in Cuernavaca until approximately seven years

ago when he left Mexico for last Germany. According to the

source,

SEKELEY was reported to have died

or to have been

killed in East Germany approximately five years ago.

On 6/12/64, MEX-13 advised that on 6/12/64,

informant

had visited the art gallery being opened by MAY BROOKS, at

which time DAVID DRUCKER, FREDERICK VANDERBILT FIELD (Bufile

100-2278), MAY BROOKS, and RUTH CONDE (Bufile 100-434224),

as well as informant,

were present. CHARLES SMALL dropped in

COVER PAGE

SECK

DoeId: 32311397 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released, under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Bet of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Rober

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 100-1535

MC 100-1534

Lanet the

and made a very facetious

remark that it looked like a

foreign branch meeting with the foreign agents and underground

agents present.

According to informant, sMALL meant DRUCKOR

and FIELD were

foreign agents and BROOKS, CONDE and informant

were underground agents.

DRUCKER, however, did not consider

the remark humorous and left immediately.

SOURCES:

Identify of Source

File Location

I-1 is NEX-25 and VEX-55

134-13A

I-2 is NEX-42 and MEX-196

134-31A

I-3

is MEX-234 and VEX-235 134-771A

T-4 is former MEX-18 and

MEX-19

134-10A

T-5 is

MEX-46

134-35A

I-S is MEX.

T-7 is

CIA, Mexico

(И)

100-1535-727

CLASSIFICATION:

This report has been classified CONFIDENTIAL in

order to protect the identities of sources of continuing

value, the disclosure of whose identities could be inimical

to the national defense interests.

LEADS:

to SIA,

subjects.

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

At Mexico, D. I., Mexico

follow the activities

of captioned

-X=

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32311397 Page 4

---

