# docid-32331286

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10232

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-97

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TP

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/20/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RADIOGRAM

v9.1

DocId: 32331286

38

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the

DATE: 11-14-2017 C'ohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

xxRadio

APPROPRIATZ AGENCIES

AND FIZLI

IFTICES

ADVISED

ROUTING

SEIP (SA

OFS

Clara

DATE

Teletype

I DECLASSIFIED BY SPEMAC EN

10180096

GreatS here

si dan

URGENT

3=20รท62

Le

TO DIRECTOR AND SACS INDIANAPOLIS, MIAMI AND NEW YORK

125

FROM SAC TAMPA

201825

-CHARLES

TOURINE, AKA. AR. FPC.

Mela de

RENYTEL TO DIRECTOR, AND SACS LOS ANGELES, MIAMI, NEW

ORLEANS, MARCH 15 LAST.

LEGAT, MEXICO (PROTECT), FEBRUARY, 1961, REPORTED JAMES RUSSELL

HAWTHORNE, US PASSPORT NUMBER 1533130, WHO WAS LAST KNOWN RESIDING

CARE OF HIS SISTER, MRS. CHARLES BOWER, COLUMBIA CITY, INDIANA,

THAT HAWTHORNE WAS

IN EUROPE ARRANGING SHIPMENTS OF SLOT MACHINE

INTO EUROPE ACCORDING TO U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE REGULATIONS

SOURCE NOTED SANTO TRAFFICANTE THROUGH SOUTHERN MUSIC COMPANY,

ORLANDO, FLORIDA, WAS SUPPOSEDLY BEHIND HAWTHORNES OPERATION.

ABOVE IS ONLY INDICATION AT TAMPA THAT SLOT MACHINES WERE MOVING

INTO EUROPE AND NO FURTHER INFORMATION DEVELOPED. FOR INFORMATION

NEW YORK, SANTO TRAFFICANTE HAS BEEN RESIDING AT MIAMI, FLORIDA.

FOR INFORMATION INDIANAPOLIS, THE BUREAU ADVISED NEW YORK THAT

NEW SCOTLAND YARD WAS TRYING TO LOCATE SUBJECT AND A PAUL BELLO,

BOTH OF WHOM ARRIVED LONDON MARCH 6, 1962, FROM NEW YORK, AND THAT

THE BUREAU DESIRED INVESTIGATION BE EXPEDITED AND RESULTS SUBMITTED

BY TELETYPE. TOURINE WAS REPORTEDLY TO CONTACT A MAN NAMED KAFTEL,

WHO IS MANAGER OF GAMBLING CASINOS IN LONDON AND FRANCE. THE

PURPOSE OF THE TRIP WAS UNDERWORLD GAMBLING OPERATIONS. NEW YORK

ADVISED THAT SOME AMERICAN HOODLUMS WERE REPORTED BY A SOURCE AS

RELAYED TO NEW YORKREC- 28

1600

APR 1 3 1962 McA*

1061

163-9938

2989-97

& MAR 27 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptograph de disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that is be suitably

DocId: 32331286 Page 2

---

