# docid-32130610

## Page 1

Released under the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Note DATE 411414-2017

MISUNDED TAMIN TOUR

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10039-10329

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-5957

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/22/1967

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: GARRISON, JAMES, INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

10/14/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/18/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

:

DocId: 32130610

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017,

BiTIONAL BURiA NO. 10

At 1662 EDITION

USA FPME (41 OFiO) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI' (137-16785)

DATE: 12/22/67

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SAC,

NEW ORIANS (137-3050) P

CONF. INFT.

NO 1529 - PC

TECIP

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 5/7/93 B4-9803: RANCH

Assassination of prettit

KENNEdY

Re New Orleans

letter to Bureau 9/14/67

PC contacted on 9/29/67, 10/26/67, 11/14/67 and

12/5/67.

,00: 11/14/67, informant advised that he has opened

a new rescuraat in partnership with JIM SENNER, one of the

owners of the Bienville House Motel.

The new restaurant is named Cafe Banquette, 601

Chartres Screet, telephone 523-8407. Informant advised this

veed to be known as Victor's Restaurant, and that VICIOR

SALADINO still owns the premises.

Informant advised that

this restaurant is now being operated by him as a sidewalk

safe, serving only three specialty sandwiches, cheese and

ware.

Informant stated that none of MARCALLO's money is

is this venture and that he is operating it solely with

SINNER®

Informant advised on 12/6/67, that ROY OCCHIPINTI's

ViJE SIDNEY was born and raised in Sioux City, Iowa; both of

her parents were Russian immigrants. SIDNEY was married

previously to an unknown individual and lived in Mexico Charl

ior five years.

Informant

stated that ROY OCCHIPINTI clears about

$30,000 a yeas from

the Creole Candy Comany.

Source further

stated that ROY OCCHIPINTI bought his wife

5.85 carat

diamond for Christmas...

This ring supposedly cost $9,000,

however, OCCHIPINTI was able to purchase it fox $6, 000.

informant

further stated

that ROY OCCHIPINTI'S

eleven year did son

JohN, inho recently was the subjectiof a

CX-113

2. Bureau

2-New Orleans

STREC 36

DEC 28 1967.

PUC/ac

100

}

X.

DocId: 32130610

62

100/0602

45/

NOT RECORDED

199 JAN B 1968

7UAB ABlE angs Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44-USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

да 137-3050

fonture article in life magazine, has been offered a $30,000

advance on his book by a Boston publishing house.

This

pablishing house primarily publishes children's books.

Informant stated that the only econonic connection

still remaining between the OCCHIPINTI brothers and CARLOS

MARCELLO is in Southern Tours, inc. Informant stated that.

Southern Tours is divided up in the following manner: 1/3,

ANTHONY MARCELLO, 1/3 BASIS " BUSTER'" INGRASSIA,

and the

remaining 1/3 divided equally between ROY and FRANK OCCHIPINTI.

ROY and FRANK OCCHEDINTI net about $125 apiece

ves week from this company.

• Recently CARLOS MARCELLO attempted

to buy out the OCCHIPINTI's 1/3 of this business; however,

MARChuLO would not pay $60, 000, which is the value fixed by

the COCHIPINTI'S.

Informant stated that FRANK OCCHIPINTI beads

up a group of investors who are currently building the

Eonaparte Motel, 3900 Tulane Avenue.

Informant stated

that

MARCELLO does not have a piece of this motel.

This motel will

be a 102 unit motel with nightclub,

restaurant, and large

swimming pol.. Informant further stated that RALPH DAVIDSON

will take over as manager of this motel when it is completed.

informant stated DAVIDSON is a former degenerate gambler who

i now the manager of FRANK OCCEIPINTI' Banquette Restaurant,

S01 Chartres Street.

Informant stated that this investment

Of FRANK OCCHIPINTI has been so successful that FRANK is open-

ing three more Banquette's in New Orleans as soon

as he can

locats a desirable site. L!

Informant stated that ROY OCCHIPINTI was attempting

to buy the Reiss Candy Company recently and had arranged to

finance this transaction through the Whitney Bank.

Informant

of the company,

to purchase his business, hence he would not sell.

Informant advised December 6, 1967, that District

Attorney, JWIGARRISON resides at 1600 Owens BouLevard, New

0rzeaps

Informant stated that the house in which GARRISON

resides Was built for GARRISON by FRANK OCCHIPINTI.

OCCHIDINTI resides next door to GARRISON. Informant stated

that

GARRISON has some type of armed guard at his house.

La

La

2

DooId: 32130610 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 |1

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 137-3050

Informant pointed out that FRANK OCCHIPINTI iS

a. Longtime

business partner of CARLOS MARCELLO. MARCELLO 2RO

OCCHIPINTI were associated in numerous business ventures and

are still in business in a company known as Southern Tours,

Inc., 1225 Airline Highway,

\ New

Orleans.

NY

Informant stated that CARRISON-arranged for an

apartment for one MARY LANE and that LANE currently has this

apartment at 833 Dauphine Street, New Orleans. La

It appears that PC is developing well however he

has not yet realized his full potential. It is recommended

that he

be continued/as a PCI.

3

DocId: 32130610

Page 1

---

