# docid-32331231

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10177

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2989-59X3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: RO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

09/25/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32331231

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John_F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The American Embassy

Rome, Italy

ON 11-1-94

Date:

September 25, 1961

To:

Director, FBI

From:

Legat, Rome

(163-28) yo

1663-

993

Subject:

NOSINE GEORGE

MINTRAUB ;

CHARLES TOURINE

aka Charlie

White;

FPC

Re London cable 8/24/62. YENG: FLA:

NY:

On 8/24/61 Dr. Aristide Manopulo,

Central Bureau,

Italian Criminal Police,

Rome, Italy

was contacted and apprised

of subjects'

alleged activities in

italy.

Dr. Manopulo was re-

quested to advise of any indication subjects have been in Italy,

as weLl as to furnish any information fuch has come to his at.

tention concerning

these individuals.

On 8/25/61 Dr. Manopulo advised that no informa-

tion identifiable with the subjects has come to his attention.

He further stated that all checks made in Rome,

Italy,

failed

indicate either Zaintraub or Tourine, aka Charlie White, had been

In Rome, recently. He stated, however, that during 1950 one

Charles Tourine del Monaco,

born May 20, 1927, in Hawawan,

Jersey, wrote to Italian Criminal Police, Rome, Italy,

advising

he was trying to locate his father, Charles Tourine.

At this

time the writer of the letter furnished his address as 120 Central

Park South, New York City. He further related

that his father,

charle

1957. 0₫

Tourine, held U.s: passport No. 275403 issued January

28,

of records

of Tourist Bureau, Italian Police,

Rome,

Italy,

made on 8/25/61,

failed to reveal any informationv

indicating Charles Tourine,

Charlie White,

or Anissin George Zain-

traub had recently resided

in Rome.

Tourist Bureau maintain

records of guests lodging in hotels and

111

10-1

56

Bureau to

advise whether subjects wanted.

taken by Rome Office in this nadder. no further action beine

RUC

2 - Bureau

MCT + 7

163-793

1 - Legat, London (sent direct) &

* SôT L 1951

MG : RAA

(4) 269

idafinita

OCT g 19601

DocId: 32331231

Page 2

---

