# docid-32329913

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90088-10093

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3241-42

Released under the John

Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection

Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NHT 45727 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SU

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/07/1960

PAGES:

37

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

H4T 45727

DocId: 32329913

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

SU 94-253

In addition to these, in past contacts with subject

he has related of being well acquainted with GLEN MC CARTHY

•I houston, Texas; United states Senator LYNDON OHNSON,

who at the present time is the Vice Presidential Candidate

TEXAS

on the Democratic Ticket; CLINY MURCHISON, financier of

Texas and also Owner of Del Mat'Race Track, San Diego,

California; REX/ BELL, Lieutenant Governor Of Nevada; GRANT...

BE See of end ate, ones seman an nevada...

In a letter dated 2/9/60, the Bureau called to

the attention of the Salt Lake City Division the cooperation

that BINION has shown in the past and the information that

he has furnished concerning his own activities as well as the

activities of others, which was of special interest; therefore,

the Bureau instructed that the top hoodlum investigation.

should be closed and that efforts should be made to develop

his cooperation in connection with overall investigations on

criminal intelligence matters.

1900, LESTER BENJAMIN BINION was considered a potential

criminal informant of the Salt Lake City Office and since

activities and also the activities of many other persons in

The

information furnished up to this point has been reliable

and it appears that he will be of value as an informant

on criminal matters in Las Vegas, Nevada, and surrounding

territory.

INFORMANTS

D.C

T-1

T-2

SU 306-C, whose

identity is knowr

to the Bureau.

SU 283-C, (deceased)

whose identity is

known to the Bureau.

Cover Page

HH 45727

DocId: 32329913

Page 2

---

## Page 3

fort

SU 94-253

T- 3

T-4

T-7

SU 353-C, whose identity

is known

to the Bureau.

ROBERT CAUDILL, a

close associate of

BINION.

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI of the Dallas

Office

Cover Page

+008880083

14 4527

DocId: 32329913

Page

---

