# docid-32112985

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY : DUVAL78-67

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10003-10320

RECORD SERIES : ACCESSION 78-67 (UNPROCESSED)

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS, MISC. (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: LANSDALE, EDWARD

TO : RECORD

TITLE: OUTLINE OF COVERT OPERATIONS

DATE: 10/31/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

dct of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel .

Lagef:NI 53244 Date: 06-12-2017

LANSDALE, EDWARD

OPERATION MONGOOSE

CIA

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IA

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/28/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NH 53214

DocId: 32112985

Page 1

60

---

## Page 2

dibütet

• OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

31 October 1962

SENSITIVE

FOR THE RECORD

By Brig. Gen. Lansdaies

Subject: Outline of Covert Operations

178-10004-10217

178-10003-10320

178-10003-10335

My other memorandum on this same subject today describes

the tasking by Deputy Secretary Gilpatric and the handling of this

highly sensitive injormation. The acquisition of the information

is noted in this present memorandun.

After Deputy Secretary Gilpatric gave me the requirement

last night, I talked to Bruce Cheever (who was acting for Bill

Harvey while Harvey was out of town). I sketched in the purpose,

which was to get a fix for Gilpatric as one of the U.S. negotiators

with the Soviets on whether or not all actions (sabotage, etc.)

had come to a stop.. I mentioned that this was a sensitive point

brought up by Adlai Stevenson when he talked with the U.s.

negotiators in New York; he didn't want the U.S. embarrassed

and Gilpatric wanted to be sure of this. Cheever commented that

he hoped my memorandum wasn't going to be shown to Stevenson;

I reassured him that I was Writing it as an "eyes only" for Gilpatric,

but it must be correct.

I asked about covert operational assets both inside Cuba and

outside, if they had stop orders on actions. Bruce said that they

all had such orders, but pointed out that some of the Cuhans were

quite emotional about stopping actions against Castro and he wasn't

certain that everyone would hold to the orders.

I then asked about assets inside Cuba, did they only have the

two action teams there? How about any psychological operations?

Bruce said he believed there were only the two teams and would

check further to be sure: He knew the teams were supposed to be

collecting intelligence. As for psychological operations, all CLA

assets had been turned over to USLA for operational use. I asked

about the balloon operation.

He said that this was not in being yet.

178-10003-10297

i.a

HW 53244 DooId: 32112985

Page 2

WOYI

00I0H

---

## Page 3

vi:.

This morning I talked to Bruce again, checking the points

in my memorandum. He said that there were only the two action

teams, a small one (Central Cuba) and the big one (200-man in

Western Cuba), but they definitely were on intelligence collection.

I asked if all others were under control, no boats going out, etc.

He said yes, but agair pointed out that the Cubans were restive.

I then

asked if any independent groups were in motion.

He said

CIA couldn't guaranice any groups not under CLA control, but that

the word had gotten around to stop actions at this time and none

were known to ClA currently, although maybe there was one not

known to CLA. I commented again that any action would embarrass

the negotiations, which was why I was asking. Bruce said he

understood.

I then checked with Don Wilson, USIA, who confirmed that

all CIA psychological assets had been turned over to USLA for

operational use and were being used as desired by the President.

I checked with Bob Hurwitch, State, to see if he knew of any

actions in preparation or on the way; he said no, everything

appeared to be at a halt. I checked with General Johnson to sèe

if any U.S. military activity might have a Cuban action group.

He said no, there are firm orders holding such actions.

I then wrote the "eyes only" memorandum to show to Mr.

Gilpatric, on "Outline of Covert Operations."

•...-.-

HW 53244

DocId: 32112985

Page

3

PHOTOCOPY FROM THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY

---

