# docid-32310199

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10302-10143

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-172694-12

Released under the John

r. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/25/1968

FS, AKA, RES, TRA, ASSOC, ACA, CONSPR, INVADE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32310199

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 2-192

The LHM is classified Confidential since it

contains information from an informant who continues to be

of value

• to the Miami Office.

Miami will maintain contact with informants in

this matter and attempt to develop additional information

concerning activities of FRANK FIORINI and his group.

the contadcatial source in tho IN is Mi:

1312-C.

2

HH 54462

DocId: 32310199 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 2-192

UN

¿D STATES DEPARTMENT OF I TICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

September 25, 1968

AU. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINIE

CONE DENTAL

SEK)

RE: INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE

(IACB) , Also Known As

Organizacion Ejercito Secreto de la

Brigada Internacional

Anticomunista

(Secret Army Organization of the

International Anti-Communist Brigade)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

It was previously reported that FRANK ANGELOAPIORINI,

also known as FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,

2515 Northwest 122nd

Street, Miami, Florida, has reportedly been engaged in

organizing an expedition which would travel from Miami,

Florida, to Guatemala, where a base would be set up from

which an invasion of Cuba may be launched.

On September 23, 1968, a confidential source who

is acquainted with FIORINI advised that he had been contacted

by FIORINI as to whether he would be interested in joining

his Secret Army Organization on an expedition to Central

America.

FIORINI said the IACB, led by him, plans to rendez-vous

in the near future in the mountains of Mexico and from there

proceed to. a Central American country, indicated by FIORINI

to be Guatemala.

FIORINI claimed the Guatemalan government was to

be assisted by the Secret Army Organization in cleaning out

communist guerrillas from the hills of Guatemala.

When this

is successfully accomplished, the government there has promised

to assist the IACB in a planned "invasion of Cuba."

FIORINI stated he was planning to fly from Miami

to Venezuela within the week

k and from there go to Mexico

CONFIDEYrIAL

DECLASSIF

Grou

ON

82

Excluded

from

AGENCIES

Automatic

gowngrading..opr

And Declassification

AND FILO OFFICES

CLASSIFIED BY 204C

ARIANS DY RODEING LOSE

-YEMPT FROM GOS CATECO

877(9) 014

BASE

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

6/8/77 que

105-172684

12

I ENCLOSURE

HIH

54462 DooId: 32310199 Page 3

---

