# docid-32300072

## Page 1

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Côllection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10352

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-255

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/09/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, B/F INT, EQUIPMENT, EVANSTON CAB CO., FRANCHISE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300072

Page 1

392

---

## Page 2

release wher the boin f. Kennedy assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hôte) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL CUNS DE "CE TOATION

COMMUNICATOR NOON

JUN 9.

TELLOPE

Mr.

* Mr. Belmont

In. J2llahen

Mir. Conned

Mr. Delch

Mir. livans.

Mir. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy

URGENT

8-9-61

10-21 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3171

FROM SAC, CHICAGO / 92-349/. 2P

SAMUEL MO

"GIANCANA, AKA, AR- DAILY SUMMARY.

PERTAINING TO THE EVANSTON CAB CO., EVANSION, ILLO, NAMED BY DEPARTMENTAL

ATTORNEY ROSTHAL AS TARGET OF POSSIBLE ACTION AGAINST GIANCANA AND

FELIX ALDERISIO PAREN SEE DAILY SUMMARY OF JUNE FIVE LAST END PAREN,

O SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED JUNE EIGHT LAST THAT HIS SOURCE

OF INFO RE HOODLUM CONTROL OF EVANSTON CAB CO., IS AS FOLLOWS.. (FELIX

ALDERISIO AND FRANK QUOTE BUTCH END QUOTE LOVERDE CAME INTO THE RE-

STAURANT OF THE INFORMANT APPROXIMATELY NINE OR TEN MONTHS AGO AND

ASKED INFORMANT IF HE KNEW ANY PERSONS WHO WOULD BE INTERESTED IN

DRIVING CABS FOR THE EVANSTON CAB CO., WHICH WAS DESCRIBED BY ALDERISIO

AS QUOTE OUR CO, END QUOTE, INFORMANT STATES THAT THIS CO. HAS IN-

VESTED OVER THE PAST MONTHS APPROXIMATELY ONE MILLION DOLLARS IN NEW

EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING SOME TWO: HUNDRED THOUSAND IN RADIO EQUIPMENT AND<

IN A NEW TWO WAY RADIO SYSTEM. RECRNT-Y2.

THIS CO.

HAS OPENED A, NEW

3171

FRANCHISE IN SKOKIE, ILL., THE SREURE IMMEDIALTELY ADJACENT AND WEST

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTRINED I2 1961

0e: JUi 15196

DocId:32300072 Page 2

---

