# docid-32424924

## Page 1

Date: 08/28/98

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

: 202-10001-10193

FOIA SERIES

: DOC 194

Released

under the Johr

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE SPECIAL GROUP ON MONGOOSE 5

APR 62

DATE: 05/05/62

PAGES 3

SUBJECTS : MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS Reviewed by JCS, OSD, State, CIA.

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

[R]

_ ITEM IS RESTRICTEL

1H7 54214

DocId:32424924 Page 1

---

## Page 2

57974

5 April 1962

359

The Deparment of State nas no objection to-the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

98

Reviewed on

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT:

Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on

Operation Mongoose, Thursday, S April 1962

PRESENT:

General Taylor, Mr. Johnson, MI. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone

and General Parker

1.

Johnson reported that the Italian representative at

the UN

has now been briefed on the proposal to approach the Cubans

wich an o

of food or medicine in exchange for the Playa Giron

pilsoners.

le noted that no specifics had been agreed on, and the

first

would be for the purpose of establishing in principal

che possibility of such an exchange.

Mr. McCone reiterated that all reports of Cuban inter-

in the Hemisphere are proving to have no substance when they

are actually run down.

In answer to General Taylor's question as to

what the U.S. might do if hard evidence of this kind is obtained,

Mr. Johnson pointed out that a subcoumittee of the OAS, on security,

had been auchorized at Punta del Este.

This coumittee was given the

authority to mobilize multi-national action against the Castro regime

in the event that such hard information is obtained. It was agreed

that whatever information becomes available should be given to General

White, who is the U.S. representative on this subcommittee.

3

Ms. McCone said that after studying the possibility of

using

Guwan air crews, CIA had concluded that they would not be

suitable for supply drops at night. On the other hand, trained U.s.

civilian crews could be provided by Civil Air Iransport (CAT) in 30

days. Arrangements could be made to have these pilots ostensibly

employed by Cuban exile groups in the U.S. and, therefore, they would

be non-attributable to che U.S. Government. He said that available

Cubans could then be used for less demanding missions such as leaflet

drops. There appeared to be a general feeling on the part of the

Group members that U.S. civillans of this type would not be essentially

different than "shees

Nipped" personnel in the event that any were

shot down over Cuba.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO'

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

Mr. Mcdone referred to the Weekly Progress Reports which

RELEASE OFTHIS DOGUMEN? re now beins produced by CIA. He said these are required interrally

6/23/98

wichin the Agency, and that to consolidate them with reporting from

ocher responsible departments and agencies would slow things up and

030:

25JON

NH 54214 DocId:32424924 Page 2

DOCT 199, 7 PP

177701

ISS

127)

---

## Page 3

359

5 April 1962

The Depanment of State nas no objecuon to-the

release or declassification of this document in full

inder the provisions of the JFK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Minutes of Meeting of the Special Group (Augmented) on

Operation Mongoose, Thursday, S April 1962

• PRESENT:

General Taylor, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Gilpatric, Mr. McCone

and General Parker

1

the UN

has

wich an

prisoners

first

Johnson reported that the Italian representative at

now been briefed on the proposal to approach the Cubans

of food or medicine in exchange for the Playa Giron

He noted that no specifica had been agreed on, and the

would be for the purpose of establishing in

principal

the possibility of such an exchange.

Mr. McCone reiterated that all reports of Cuban Inter-

vention in the Hemisphere are proving to have no substance when they

are actually run down.

In answer to General Taylor's question as to

what the U.S. might do if hard evidence of this kind is obtained,

Mx. Johnson pointed out that a subcommittee of the OAS, on security,

had been authorized at Punta del Este.

This comittee was given the

authority to mobilize multi-national action against the Castro regime

in the event that such hard information is obtained. It was agreed

chat whatever information becomes available should be given to General

White, who is

the U.S. representative on this subcormittee.

3

MI. McCone said that after studying the possibility of

wan air crews, CIA had concluded that they would not be

suitable for supply drops at night. On the other hand, trained U.s.

civilian crews could be provided by Civil Air Iransport (CAT) in 30

days. Arrangements could be made to have these pilots ostensibly

employed by Cuban exile groups in the U.S. and, therefore, they would

be non-attributable to the U.S. Government. He said that available

Cubans could chen be used for less demanding missions such as leaflet

drops.

CA]

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO'

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR-

4.

Mr. McGone referred to the Weekly Progress Reports which

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENare pos being produced by CIA. He said chese are required internally

wichin the Agency, and that to consolidate them with reporting from

6/23/98

other responsible departments and agencies would slow things up and

6J0:

25 JON

NN 54214

Do01d:32424924 Page 3

POCIt194, 2PP

877704195

(1.77)

---

