# docid-32295315

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10091

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-464

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/07/1967

2

CM, FGJ, ATTEMPTED ASSAULT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32295315

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-(14-U56 2407 Hotel.

DATE: (29V.3-227417

Mr. Tolson

Mr.

Deloach

Mr. Mohr...

MT. Bishop.

Mr. Casper..

Mr. Callahan..

FBI

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr. Folt.

Date: 11/7/67

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Transmit the following in

Mr. Sullivan-

(Type in plaintext or code)

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Via

AIRTEL

Tele. Roem

(Priority)

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy_-

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

SAC, WFO (92-113) (RUC)

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka

AR

• (00: NO)

Former WF 1633-C-TE advised SA RICHARD T. MARQUISE

11/2/67 that he was in recent personal contact with subject

in New Orleans at which time MARCELLO mentioned an indictment

pending against him for attempting to assault an FBI Agent.

MARCELLO claimed that the Agent has testified that MARCELLO

swing at him with his right hand. MARCELLO claimed "friends

at the AP!' (Associated Press) in New Orleans furnished him

with a photo which shows MARCELLO carrying a coat in the arm

which allegedlywas used to strike the Agent. MARCELLO statey

hils lawyer JACK WASSERMAN has the photo?

Former WF 1633-C-TE stated he contacted WASSERMAN

and was exhibited the photo which confirms MARCELLO's claim

above. In addition WASSERMAN claimed he found a serious error

in the impaneling of the FGJ which indicted MARCELLO in this

matter. WASSERMAN claimed as a result of this error, at least

20 otherwise good cases will be nullified. WASSERMAN told

Bureau

2 • WFO

(1-137-3535)

RTM: bas

(7)

/cC

C. C. - Bishop

New Orleans (92-36) (AM) REQ 5%

+d

91-2213-444

11 - 15-6?

RER: AIR

AIRTEL

Ad Approved:

def in. charge

Sent

Per

DocId: 32295315 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: "11-14-2017

WFO 92-113

former WF 1633-C-TE he could have a copy of the photo if

he so desired. The former source stated it was obvious

to him that such evidence seemed very flimsy as a defense

inasmuch as MARCELLO could easily have switched his coat

to the other arm;or the photographic print could have been

contrived by reversing the negative.

WFO is not aware of the facts in the attempted

assault case against MARCELLO; however, it is possible

that MARCELLO and WASSERMAN are claiming the above in the

hope that it might cause the Government to reconsider its

case against MARCELLO.

UACB, WFO will not ask former WF 1633-C-TE to

obtain above-mentioned photo from WASSERMAN.

If the above information is disseminated outside

the Bureau, it should be appropriately paraphrased to

protect source.

= 2-

DocId: 32295315 Page 3

---

