# docid-32328367

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90073-10071

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-38828-6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USe 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 45992 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

07/23/1958

PAGES:

31

SUBJECTS :

DAVE YARAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

774 45992

DocId: 32328367

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

i :*

10a2-14

Offce Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT i wi

DIRECIDE, MBI

DATE 7/23/56

sAC, crIsdo (87-8462)

G

DATE TARAS

ITEP - POP JENEL THIE!

press.

11-1

ipe ment

Ro Mani lottar to Director,

FBI, 3/20/55,

and Maxi jettor to Diractor, 852, 4/20/56.

Roforencod lotte: datod 3/20/55 nots fortb

Laforuetion that on 2/W/5L.

2957 cadsliac, beeriez 1955

111.0010 11602Be 701234

tOgatior vItE ChEL PIORITi.

TE: Husber 3210979,

ROYO CiVETch, PEL Number 1622562, Mad WILLIE

DEXCAVARE, PEI Nuaber 3942004. It vili Do sotad

taRt aboro licAsso DuRbar vas dotoriod to baTo

soon sagaod to A. URsi.

I1110018.

Oscago Gradit bananu and TACOTiA of tOR CLÍCASO

Offico fell tO reRACt aLI INTOTIETIOE IdentIfiabLo

WIth A. URSE.

Frittoo:, 1t nas notoi that A. URSO

1a not l1stod 11 too curr-at licago os Cicago

saburbar talephone diroct ilos and so record could

ba locatod concoraing tbo address 1234 8. beniltos.

CG 6215-C 1 1/159, airlood tibat duriat

to early part t: dune,

2459,

subfact approacbed

BEi EPSADY, MIcagO boolarkor, vita an offor to

Bot up Listill as a bead e: «n offico to be usod

as a contal point for ap -te bocking in the Chicago

de part o! tale do I EPITEIN Would bo rogiired

to intost a considerable lour of boney vich Epstin:

would do abio to do.

Infurani stated that EPStaTi

did not accopt this proposition, but indicatod to

CaRAs tinat ho irtonded to got out of the gambllea

bassess ontiraly and, in

fact, plansod to go inte

•legitimate produco bualbeas aparstad by bis

brotkor-in-law.

CG 6215-Caortioued that ho has board

tiat YARiS Las parchasad a considerablo anount of

"not" joiuliy vitals tho pasi noaths.

Fo stajed

E? - Bureau

BEG 1231

22-55838-6

2 - M1951 (69-8115)

I - Chicago

870₴

FIB/Rab

Ernie che

(5)

66 JUL 31 1622

NW 45992 DooId: 32328367 Page 2

---

## Page 3

co 87-8462

that It nas Indicatod to his that YARAS 18 s0t

lenciag tale jowolry but 1a giaply bujiag jouolr.

and kooping 18 as a possassion.

Information eot so-to below 18 a cou-

probonaive rotion of the rocords of the cbicago

offico concerting captioned subloct. It will bo

notod-that much of too infomation sot forth barola

DonaTer, 1t 18 boing set forth is order thet tho

BELTERU ANd tDO MINIL DITIBIOR DAy bo adTisod of

all intomation contalnod in the rocords of tha

Chicago OffIco concerning captiased subjoet...

Order date ol 4/25/44, a SoloctiTo SOrTIE

sor utilted by the Chicazo Folice Dopartrait sota

fort tha fOlloNing Corer'lE captioned subJect:

DAVID YAFAS

55101.

GladEs AvenUe

Born 11-07-12, Chicago, 11t.

508"

165208.

Kilte raco

Else. eyos

Unitou Statos Cit:Ien

cocupation

- Siot nachine garbler

"Ended..

the children

Registered Vitt, Local Board #136, Chicago

sojectivo Service classification s LP

Investigation in the case entitiod onionou

subjects; Valentine Pederel Savlags and Loan Sadociation,

Cicero.

Illinois,

5-21--59 =eflocts that. SA MARK M.

MO SEURiLY sortected SIT. LibRa iOLET, Cartego

Jots'l, Calesgo Fclico

Departent, who

surrested

teat Dave Tads, Calcaço B of I Number 5-59530,

riget bo a poesible suupect in this caso.

Diot York let

car ta tho D'ractor, detod

57147.

reflocts

trat uNVC 1l5 was shown the pooto-

grept of LivID thias,

-

2

Informant

97-98828-.

NH 45992

DooId: 32328367

Page 3

8

---

## Page 4

" re

ü5 87-8462

to innediatoly Identiflod this pboto-

5/22/06: Dels that of DATE TARAS Os GasCape.

Pitisols.

to TARAS DOYS,

UDO Mas esplojad as as Icemas.

I8 a member of the pIScletta bojo sob.

ATE TARAS de rOputaLly " "bAd DOE TARA

1s particularly trimmily vito both JOSEPE iTIo

SECRET ANd MEYEr SURDOS, but be 18 DOt It at

1ay rolatod to aitsor of tboss. Lu

Baronu lottor to Chicago, detod 8/29/46,

parlocts that the follovins information uns ton

aíshod by fuTi ROLAHO JONES 1I tLe courso of lator

Mous with sources ( anj a (not furticar liantities)

dat ITOE ITOE t250r33 8/3/46.

thie the the southuest anageumat

Compery 1s De1108,

TeXaS SaS ONnOd by SEX TARAS and

Bal's brotber, invi -aras.

SAM YARAS 205: $150,000

In crap ganes.

DAVE YARDS, upOs LoarDig Of ble

brothor's boary 1088=8, 1 mediately callod on him

lor an accouating.

Sal: JAPAS trion approachod BUDO!

SATCHER and offorod SATCEaR one bal letorest so

due to difficultios ulta

infinit

Dallas report, deted 8/5/46, by SA ALPON

M. BRYANT, CAptiOnOd "JAKES WEINBERG, MBB., Eted,"

reflocts the following:

The folloring individuals bave not boen

roported de activo associates of the bEIXBaRo

Eroup, but informants of the Dallas Division In-

dicated that they tave associatod vitt, bEINBERG,

PATiABEICA, AN1 MORTILXOCES 10 Dalles, bot tbo

-3 -

87-38828

! HH 45992 DocId:32328367 Page 4

---

## Page 5

06 87-8462

TARAS 18 MORtiOnOd 10 Iogard to tbo

RABIA KILLIAG.

Polico confidential Stomarts adrised

hat Inoilrios nade by toe

as to tho

Location of

AVE YSEAS Sallad to roToGi ey delin'to salarmetto

as to vicara bo iúgit bo located.

on 322/47, VILIAN E. BIOCE, 36,

cosTiet, Has ArTostad bI EClIcO offIcOrs at 3613

Roosevalt hoad, Cricago, Mals 1s too Location of

• book vtict Nas boing operates by DATE TARAS,

ADOTiZOI ES-COETICE.

VIRGIL PETERSON OL tO ChICAGO CHIO

CoumissIon advlead tat the bendbooks le the z4tb

Liard, atronziOlÓ of JITE ARVEY BOd APE X. EuROD,

The Zith jard 18 1

tbe strongsold os

DIVE YARIS, WILLIAM B. BUJOL ROS LECELO FATEICE,

all of kace bore naned as suspacts in tibe Bllal

abost1t8.

CEscerc. lottor to New York, datod 4/22/47,

railoets the following:

CG 5658 adrise: the Chicago O1 Mee that

MEYER GORDOS rECiTES " LODE LItance tolspaade

call fros LassEs

a: welch time an 1adiridual,

roguested Liasocial

centiped Day as Great to facilitate the

de-

parture of one ROCKIE fIx the Unitos Statos Lato

Canada.

KeiaR waits explaired that ho could not

rander ary

financial astistance to MYRTLE due to

h'e one financial probless.

MYRTis than ropiestod

Information as

Ka seed 1.9ül 1l de be: boes roading

veer adriao: toat she bad not, ho 11-

IcrIod ber tiat DavID dus away or account of sone

scandal bere.

It is before:

•that GORJON WaS ro-

tO

the norspapers pabllcity surrounding tbe

disappearance of

DAVID TAPAS at tho tine the Chicago

÷01100

Innestirating new develop.

reportedit or the capons

Spudicete 1n Chicago.

6

87-38828-

NW 45992 DooId: 32328367

Page 5

---

## Page 6

54.2

red i. .

co 87-8462

Pure: aid 65653681e in 100 1 Pete

In the contact nade vite duStrE kailifE by so un-

Kaon Inciticial 1dos:1t1e1 CalJ As "PAT" as 3/19/47.

On tEla DOSSiCs PUT rade the statonert to barteR,

"Old you soo tise papara - tuat l1ttle

LookiDE for ls your ecasts orer boat afar toes aro

subsoguest

arcitad orer thie particule: contact and apposred

¿o do concerzad about bis oun voilare li too setter.

It 1E tbOrelaTo pOssibio tEt DIVID YAPAS BaJ DO a

Hew york soport deted 5/29/47 by SAd.

GORDCE SEATIN refLoCIA tDE IOLlOWLIS INorcetions:

In accordance with the request froz the

coacero briice,

a paotogrer of anta that-

cricago

via= saLibitad to luc-105 taná b

manately Identitloc thle protograpa no veing

LEE CI DAVI TAPAS Of CLICERO, ILLInOIS.

ÉE bAS

KOON. YAPAS ince be dise e youngster, as they vero

noighbors of t16 in the ricinity of intritt and

UlTItion Streets, ChIcago, Illiacie, LiVID YARAS DaS

a broticer nared shitlea, whe 19 probably in Dallas,

FOXAs.

Ee thinke ta: bot Davla and savori YARAS

are irtorested 1r. Blo: racines, and DAVII 18 supposodly

a seabor of tiLe FISCATI Hot 1r. Cricago.

Ee 18

AlSO IRIODdiT WItH ICCEFE LAVID HOLCHES aNd METEA

CORDON.

The "ChICagO hrericar" dated 10/24/47.

contained di

article captiored "ield as Regas

hItness Iiller."

The article reflected that THOXAS

(Little Bud) SINCalIn,

3535

state Stroet,

to to rocked on a curier charge, polico said, for

FiCE MILLIDE OF JOE: NEITE,

22.

or. t//47.

KEITE

Mas one of tre three men who

IdentIfIed WILLIAM

BLOCK, LEONARE PATPIN:

aL: DAVID YEAS RE BIAJOFE

OF JANTES !. RAGEIi.

• 7.

87-88828-

NW 45992 DooId: 32328367 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 87-8462

olicago report dated 7/29/47, by BA I.

Informis

...*

confidential Informants of the Chicago

office bare ropurtod the: DalE YARAS bas boon

spendinz sono the at libarai jonaiR-a Utaro JOSEI

It bas not beez de torinod

Notca LAFIS 1s Interastod 11 VELCITE oF loOtbOr

Lo DORts J0I FISTEITTi IN the JoNeLors, Milat vorla

ROcodIt lor Dis appoRranCe EborE on sATAral

decording to Contliontial Informant

'C6-5654) DAVE IMPAS spent sore tiro golLE to tbe

LIbera- develere as 6/32/47.

Welle tbore, TARAS

cortactod an Individual know: orly as PITi at the

Doronarine Eoto!.

In tale ContaCt YAPAS roqueRtod

$2,500 tbat be carod.

roasons 10r act paring ils account, but relused to

discuss 1t at that tire.

It shoalà bo sotor DAVE YAPAS haa beon

present 1n the liberal deveiers on several occasione

when JE FiSE210I vas there.

It bae not been do-.

temined wetter

tis woo merely a coincident of

'YARIS 1S aCtualy part cI the FISCHETTI

ALAS ABE SEITE advised that be le per-

sonaliy acquain ed uite individuals uhor are looma

tbe iricago office to be police characters and/or

sold tigi, places 1n the Chicago criminal syndicate.

ha0ng these

1S DAVE TARIS.

SETIZ was interilewed or. 7/23/47 by SAO

SOFT P. GiVImi and dUi?. PAuu end be adrisod

that he first becare erplored for laTER DORDON 1r

the Liberal

Loan Bank at 2l E. haars Street on

3120/43 and was employed et

the the the treesury

Depgradent cloged doors of that store for lacons

tañ riolations on 6/5/46.

87-28828-

NW 45992 DooId: 32328367 Page 7

6

---

## Page 8

CG 87-2462

Civillan Fogistor 1155844 and 118ter borself de

te vito of UNVI INFFAS, bott residing at 4235

ditos Road, Miari LeacE, Fiorida, Mits tho sortboro

TILLNCES,

as tibe

Tak1t1, 23rd and Liberty Avenue, liest

Boach, Florida. I

Too Pahltl bar 10 vall koore to too

Múand OIlico as loirE a langout lor boodlus.

A DoMspaDor articlo 1a too "Chicago

Da11y Sus-91n08° e 3/22/50 refloctod that the

bOdy a EMiLTY LEAPTiS, a lost SIdo CLICAgO gamblIBE

rigiro, kas found: spretiod across a barbod tire

fenco at 3/21/50 a: Ear-ajale Station, Ildlana.

Taiis had a cruthal moord datiag back thonty

a'no Toars,

closely associatod witt lSORAiD

PATRI and DiVE YARoS 1n gasolinE etiTitios de

tico biost sido.

of s/22/5o statos tat polico sourco:

clainod tadt bo va.

"Ins Silost tartser" of livE

YAPAS and LIDNAPO LATELi, MaO aro In abarge of

syndicate garblino cpor.tiong in the three bert

S'je vards.

isiveloved to bavo bean tbo

"Bet1nd the scered oporator and lenons to vory

son pooplo.

chicago jetter to tre Diroctor datod

3/7/57 captioned Tinown Sub'ests; Trort o1

$60. 000.00

dorth od cowtiry,

SaLien 3/2415 ontals

to follouine 1nicrastado:

Informant

in 2/26/57, C6 6132-C, Who tas furt: Shod

rollable informatici

" the past, advised Sa KILLIaM

J. MO coPaICa and St LOy & WASNeR tbat above

captioned rubbery lui been porpetrated by tilLIaM

DiTEDRO, PETER JULIAN ARISTEIN, and DAVE YARAS.

- 15.

87-38828°

HH 45992

DooId: 32328367

Page 8

---

## Page 9

33 27-64,62

Koni lottor to too hijactor decel

Masted uEs a Itorer it furaished to the

too eseusiatod titi too Intionia Basrd o? FiO

LE GERATE PRIDE SI ALONE SO FALLED,

"chiasis plate

de io tao. he 1i22 450

the kaapili? are etin, le

JiVe Wrass

neTe ias: zon mentioned and

It 1ge dee

belierod trut ne bus possis

too

Kon tror Guicago no sow arcaig ba Lore."

• CrIcano DEmo detad 2a'2/53

EARINGROY

inicltagta.Ca

Erco 11/6/53

in 20/53.

Too Introd i kes gainined by

ILE LiMONIRDE DITS tEO ASS STAECO 01 SA ELRETICION.

¿AZE VIMIR: MO CAPTE, dUlEE

buelness

at 5 sotte

tenspirone buriber PE

203972, 18

c! €

Flaint club

ILiz Jani, aco 15 toe operator

1= tani, torica, ard to 1s a

corvact

OIG

Cricago erea.

oi the bigger jodel leuces in tiao

chicato lettar to the Director datod

22/21/53 Pc2Lo0k0

DIOCIONG.

VIRGIL. FEELESON,

the dricago Crane Commission,

79

siest rooose Spreci, aicego,

was interiored and

the folluring indirection

was riported:

21 -

88.98828-

NW 45992 DooId: 32328367 Page 9

---

## Page 10

C0 87-Eixbi

-

OF 5/20155, PCI JOHNEARL WILSON patrised

34 803 P.

GETIME toat FAPPY BROMa, Cuzor CI

Diaci di hOTTI tRiSTOI, ARIUSOTUTOC SqUATE jAI

-. "

ICITE'I BiCI MACHIDe MIBIGILA NCICS arE IDEertOd

1= to piastio balis.

EWLSON

siste: tai: BROkE Lamerly operated

the hrertoon musement compsay, a dealer of zict."

His ferme? in

Hide I 2947.

i:"

or 2171561665809-C'Furrished the PolloR-

es t veil la i flariüh hicage eynil-

Cate

1oodlEr.

The triorar: adt sed that DIVID EbPAs,

ICILET DISTIENCI

• PATE" JI,

15 currently opereting

E LEVErA GAS DOOLIO LO ItS I PICTICE.

C6 5902- C)

C..

3/637, adVISOd SA RAYMOND

8. DEIS 50=5

2=21:5157=

Chicago bosslur nanod

FIFTY CAN CO 1100 to 1ri0rent's

piece

Co buSiaGES ALd EDLTÁ.DeS tO blI taT LE K088

tEEt

Internat be a custity of tr sets takes

2I a

Doceroer buciary of an appliance storo.

ES'¿ LLO IEICARILLSE WIS tENON frOnia

siero bolcagina to a friand of his and La destrad

to be soccepersod in try amount el $5,900. In

roreur 8üstei triat after acce 11112et1on CEROFI

deraniad a roch botton payment of $2200 and CERONE

touched tre: lis pertoer das taintai "sucrEs" diosIo.

In'oreat containod tici as 3/4/57, MIRIAl "SMOLE"

1a520 net with the Intorant and at that time hasSIo

toid intomon: that he isà to par 42200 and rentioned

ELat

nou can't have so tore witi, Joù 24 bours a day

ro prioct yo!:.

Interant acrised that he irtendod

to contact sit

• YEAS COLONIE PARALS In Order

to -00-51n Led: 10 Getting cut of tuss troubio.

-187-088250136

Import.

NW 45992

DooId:32328367 Page 10

---

## Page 11

.CG 57-84,52

DATID "DATE® LAFAS

fx: 5655097.

Kimai Esaci Pr

84-12493

Rasidenco

Iciaphese

Presant car

i."

Hot listad

17-T0S DECIME PLOTICA

li care (rentell; treze

da ragistarai to

San

kafe

desidesco

It-eptiane

DLEGT. BEy Eerbor pELTe,

Soci li.

Ea] FaTüor Isisad,

Un'or 5-21,74 - listed

Son

1s part iber of susco Auto Rertal:

18% Streit,

3.5

"23rd 5 root

collta

Ave de, sonry Islest

Fresident

iS, ¿SCrETAM-ErORSCIAT

XS YARL, Vico Frescent

Kete:

It 18 Inde: 1t00d tuat DAVE YARAS

piChaSod thiS bualDesi IOr i18 ECI.

NSIT "caso

InCEDa: 0100÷16, partICi aPli IrOn CriCago, U80

C66215 -C bar: sed 3A RUZCOM L. BAYEP. 08

6/2:15?

SEE LiTTY PAZ.IT OsTa a building on

Roorovalt acac, Chicago, NelcE was foreriy used

cer. or for estling opora-

TiOrs. PCI

esid tiat tio billair, wis renocelod

1s nos a colorad

POCHIE- DOSSE.

Upon tho dati se ca tita ganbling

eStabl: StadIt, PAPAIO 6D6 D. TE TABLE pürcioasod

the dei house on lors ivers it the vicity of

DacON aNd FiACEd WILLIE ROS:

15 crarge c? tala

place, valca la operatoi as a bati bouse opos to

the pubile, bit wolco bi pli la quartois for gerbling

07-28828-

24-

NW 45992 DocId: 32328367

Page 11

---

## Page 12

C3 87-8452

15.

(6 6215-685010/4159 adt1Bod SE BORGAT 1.

sushiano di a garbier die operates & book 10r sportin

intladaS 20r00.190108 01 LOs ueSI poTIA.

• PCI

1186

eInalned ticat es l guntler; COJOSeRE

25 BOC

LETTI PITRIO.:

¿this money to de pald datly at tos E lad a

LE SAIÒ ENEL G:202225

Cu: có la dallo darciage to oradr peoplo at tiao sovereig

Eotera :

0= 1/8/50.

JOET. E.

IRTIONE

729.

LOTARD PARTICI ONES a RUSSIAN bety house

and DineL, beich ke onnis hitL DiTE

SE LITOTIERE SÉVISSE tERE PAPIS ENd FATRICK

ETE TETY CINEGLI RESO-LETE:, OTES tOOLEN VRAS 18

•DOW & rEEldELt Of PLEI BOICH. TARAS SEd IATRICE

usDd to sini denari togethes jeare ago.

Ghscago.por.irt datod 1/13/5E by SA PRANCIS

W. FUMETS catIonod " 'ARSENUL CIPANO" sota fortb

LIstod dE En aSSOCIatO OI MARSELiA SAIPATO

SAB DAVE YARLS.

7 4

The synopels of This report rollocts that

CATTANO 1s part CoLEr of tLo Predelinia Festeurent.

ass0c1ate8 bitt tup liqures 1n alloged Syndicate

and is alleged loadeI of fie so-calios

"young blopda."

or. 3/12/58 PCI BEN LIPKIN idrisod SA

FANTES A, SITE EOSt ERVE LURE aLS LEONARD

PARPICZ,

Loodlun wan reva ereat power in tice

maiorcrld on

the Weit E':e of ChiCago, baTE Used

tie facilities of thi Advance dudlt Compari,

5 M.

Mabasi, Cuiceco, Illinoia, talorbone Prani:21a 2-1341.

sai.

07-28828-

- 30.

774 45992

DooId:32328367 Page 12

---

