# docid-32331329

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90096-10275

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-239

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/28/1967

7

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/20/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HW 45964

10

DocId: 32331329

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 9-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

CHARLES TOURINE aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DEC 2 8 1089

9129/67-12/19/67

REPORT MADE BY

PAUL G. DURKIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

cag

REFERENCE: Report of SA PAUL

• G. DURKIN, 10/27/67, at NY.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

During the course of contact with NK 2603-C-TE on

9/29/67, informant commented that he was not surprised to hear

that. JOE CASEY and JAMES JULIANO came to a violent end.

Informant said that CASEY was always outspoken and inclined

to create

trouble.

He said that he knewCASEY for 30 to 40

years and recalls a number of instances in CASEY's past,

in particular, he related, involved JOE CASEY's first wife,

RENE.

Informant related

that this took place about 1935

CASEY got word that "LITTLE PUSSY"

RUSSO and"GYP"DE CARLO

were seeking to make time with CASEY's wife. Informant said

that casEY put on two guns and started looking for RUSSO and

DE CARLO and would perhaps have carried out hisestated intention

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED: None

Case has been: Pending over one year [X] Yes # No; Pending prosecution over six months = Yes X No

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

3.

Bureau

(92-2989)

2-

USA, SDNY

92++9 821-23980651

1-

1-

Miami (92-106) (INFO)

Newark (92-421)

(INFO)

1 JAN B. 1968

ST-115,

I- Washington

Field (92-105) (INFO)

3- New York (92-851)

(1-92-658 Sub A)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Organized Crite and Racketeering

By

•Sectton, Hopm 25241"

62 JAN 10 1968

NW 45964 DocId: 32331329 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-851

to kill

them, except for informant's intercession. Informant

commented that he, JOE CASEY and CHARLIE THE BLADE were then

stayingtet he veget tel Beek, New Jersey, on the Lam

Informant said that he

has no particular knowledge

of CASEY's killer but would be alert for any information he

might receive concerning this matter.

feels it would not be logical that RICHIE BOIARDO would have

anything to do with it because if he were so inclined,

ne would have had CASEY killed at the time CASEY leftelim or

the street following an unsucessful effort to kill RICHIE

BOIARDO many years ago.

Periodic spot checks conducted at subject's residence

and know hangouts in the New York City area were conducted

during the investigative period by SAS CHARLES G. DONNELLY,

PAUL G. DURKIN and EUGENE F. FITZPATRICK.

INFORMANTS :

Identity of Source

NY T-1

PCI [

NY T-2

NY 3610-C-TE

NY T-3

Contacted By

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

] (Former) SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA EDMUND J. PISTEY

NY 5642-PC (Former)

NY T-4

Newark Office

NK 2603-C

NY T-5

SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

PH 672-C-TE

OTHER 4

LEADS :

MIAMI, NEWARK, WASHINGION FIELD (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being sent to above

office

because subject periodically visits these divisions..

- B -

(COVER PAGE)

NH 45964 DocId:32331329 Page 3

---

