# docid-32291130

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10406

HQ

92-6054-576

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

FLYNN, JAMES P.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/29/1964

'PAGES:

97

SUBJECTS :

LCN, NUMEROUS SUSP, BKG, RACK AND SUBV, GAMBLING,

B/F INT, CONSPR, FISUR, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1A, 1B, INDEX PAGES I-XIV

v9.1

DocId: 32291130

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 (11 USt 2TUT Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

(Rev. 5-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA aka

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORiGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

1/29/64

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES P. FLYNN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/1/63-12/31/63

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

pos

REFERENCES:

Bureau alrtel to New York, 11/4/63;

Report o. SA JAMES P. FLYNN dated 7/1/63 at

New York.

-P-

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU:

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memorandum reflecting

characterization of informants.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

16

Bureau (92-6054) (Eniet:2)

(COPIES CONTINUED)

6 - New York (92-2300)

= 1 JUN 8, 1972

68 FEB 181964

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

file

1 on

3Fc 1 vot

DocId: 32291130

Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-576 PeCT

D JAN 30 1964

Notations

Te the

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2300

ADMINISIRATIVE:

ALL OFFICES

It still remains quite evident that the best, and in

most instances the onlalLa dosa Nostra

sources in a position to furnish

information concerning

are nembers, either live

or as highly confidential sources.

Those offices: not possessing either category are

dependent on fringe associates of members and

are not truly

in a position to unqualifiedly relate that a

"family" does not

exist in their division, when indications strongly infer one

does.

An analysis of information developed by such

fringe

associates in

sganizations out it anae points to l sandcate"

that is inclusive of individuals that

could not be acceptable as members of the organized Italian

criminal element because of lack of qualification under existing

known rules of "La Cosa Nostra".

; particularly that pertaining to

Italian heritage.

In view of the past and current successes, attained

In those offices realizing accomplished development

of member

sources, both live and highly confidential, it is incumbant on

those offices not possessing such sources to redouble their

efforts to penetrate the

organized Italian criminal element

known as "La Cosa Nostra"

INFORMANTS:

NY T-1

NY T-2

NY

• T-3

NY T-4

NY T-5

NY I-6

LA 4448-C-TE

BS 837-0*

BU 82-C*

NK 2251-C*

DE 919-0*

PH 599-C-TE

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32291130 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2300

INFORMANTS: (cont'a)

NY

1'-1

NY

T - 8

NY

T- 9

NY

T-10

NY

NY

T-11

T-12

NY 1'-13

NY T-14

NY T-15

NY T-16

NY T-17

NY T-13

SL 1233-C*

SI 1249-0*

KC

358-C-TE

KC

353-C-TE

NY

3064-C-TE

NY

3368-C-TE

NK 2319-C-TE

PH 623-0*

CV 554-C-TE

MI 602-C-TE

SE

2354-C-TE

NY 4120-0*

LEADS:

ALBANY

At Albany, NY

Will continue efforts to develop information'

pertaining to "La Cosa Nostra"

membership in this Division,

and its relation to the

"family" of STEFANO MAGADDINO.

BALTIMORE

At Baltimore, Md.

In view of information furnished by. PH I-2 (PH 599-C-

12/13/63,

, will continue efforts to effect identity of members

of group in your area and to establish possible connection

of these members with a

"family" in NY, or elsewhere.

-

D

COVER.

PAGE

DocId: 32291130 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2300

LEADS: (cont'a)

DENVER

At Denver, Colorado

1. Will, through official police records of area,

or other appropriate research source, attempt to determine

whether a PELLIGRINO SCAGIIA and others previously indicated were

murdered in the Pueblo or Southern Colorado area.

For the information of the Denver Office, a VINCENZO

CHIAPETTA is reportedly now residing in st. Louis,

Missouri, per

Kansas City report, under this caption, dated 12/17/63.

In future reporting under this caption, will sat forth

Information under appropriate category to which applicable,

in accordance with Bureau instructions.

2. *Same as Boston #3.

DETROIT

At Detroit, Michigan

1. Same as Boston #1.

2. *Same as Boston i3.

3. Will continue efforts to determine extent of

ZERILLI's activities with regard to

"Commission"

, as well as

with regard to

family" within this Division.

INDIANAPOLIS

At Indianapolis, Indiana

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32291130 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2300

LEADS: (cont'a)

LOS ANGELES

1.

LA 4448-C-TE.

2.

Same as Boston #1.

3. *Same as Boston #3.

At Los Angeles, california

Will continue efforts with development of

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida

of "La Cosa Nostra"e alert for Intormation pertairie to attempts

and their close fringe associates,

to develop shares or interests. in large scale gambling operatios

in West Indies, Jamaica, Dominican Republic and Grand Bahama

Island.

2. Same as Boston il.

MILWAUKEE

At Milwaukee, Wisconsin

1. *Same as Boston #3.

2. Will continue efforts to finalize identiflation of

membership in this Division contingent with existing knowledge

of "La Cosa Nostra" with particular attention to resolving

extent and nature of control of outside

"family"

, if such indeed

exists.

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32291130 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

"....

NY 92-2300

LEADS: (cont'a)

2. Will attempt to develop coverage by highly

confidential technique to determine scope, extent of operation,

and identification of membership of this organization in that

Division, as well as degree of association with membership and

leadership of the organization in other Divisions.

PHILADELPHIA

At Philadelphia, Pa.

1. Same as Boston #1.

2. Will continue coverage and evaluation of activities

of BRUNO as both "Commission

member and "boss"

PHOENIX

At Phoenix, Arizona

1. Will continue efforts to develop information

concerning existence of a

"family"

(borgata-brugad) in this area.

It is significant that information furnished by

LA 4448-C-TE indicates existence of a

in this area

under JOSEPH BONANNO to which CHARLES BATTAGLIA was transferred

from the Los Angeles "brugad"

Will fallow activities of BATTAGLIA in your

Division to develop this connection with other possible members

of a

"family" there under JOSEPH BONANNO.

PITTSBURGH

1.

*Same as Boston #3.

-

K.

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32291130 Page 7

---

