# docid-32293759

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10212-10035

HQ

62-9-12-462

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case# :NU 45760 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/04/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, CONSPR, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

V9.1

HH 45760

24

DocId: 32293759

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

11/4/63

N

Transmit the following in .

Via

AIRMAIL

(Priority or leshod of Melling)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

PAC, DARTIAS (94-55A-SUB)

-CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY

SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 10/28/63.

RE: NORVELL YOUNG STANFIELD, ald.

ITWI

(DL 165-153)

5+4

On 10/28/63, DL-185-C-TE advised that GEORGE FREDERICK

RECHENBERG advised him that they were attempting to locate a new

location for their bookmaking activities and that he should not

call the old numbers to place bets on football games.

Informant

advised that previous numbers vere LAkeside 6-3683

and LA 8-0211.

On 10/28,30/63, area checks of the apartment house where

the above telephone service was located falled to reveal STANFIELD'S

automobile in the immediate area of the apartment.

On 10/31/63, a check of the telephone records indicated

that the above numbers are presently in operation, and there have

been no orders received to disconnect the numbers.

3

Bureau

Dallas

(31-5614)

Dallas

94-50)

Dallas

(102-95)

Dallas

(104-129)

Dallas

162-264)

Dallas

165-116

-

Dallas

165-150

Dallas,

100-153

Dallas

(166-1 02)

DaLlas

(166-124)

1

Dallas

IDL: pm

94-55-503

,83

(14)

a Go Wick

O NOV 1

oyea

Sent -

96 Special Agent in Charge

REG- 45

62-9-12462

NOV

1963

• 51.6

_ M

Per

Hw

45760 DocId: 32293759 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI. 94-55A-SUB

RE:

RUSSELL D. MATTHEWS

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-102)

On 10/28/63, DL-185-C-TE advised that R. D. MATTHEWS 1s

no longer employed at

the Redman's Club, 1606 Young Street, Dallas.

Informant advised that on 10/26/63, he had stopped at the Redman's

Club to pay MATTHEWS some money owatto bim.

At that time the

bartender advised him "that MATTHEWS was working the phones in

Irving, Texas".

Informant observed bartender dial telephone

number BL 4-2584, and advised MATTHEWS that informant was attempt-

ing to pay him a debt.

Records of the Irving telephone office reveal that

above number listed as nonpublished to Mrs. BILL HELTON,

2207 Greenbriar, Irving, Texas.

BILLY JOE HELTON, husband of

Mrs. HELTON, is

presently serving time in a Federal prison..

On 10/29,30/63, a 1963 white over blue Oldsmobile

bearing 1963 Texas

license RA 6568 was observed parked. in the

garage at 2207 Greenbriar.

On 11/4/63, DL- 170-C advised that MATTHEWS recently

purchased the above car and is using tags registered

to Musser

Motors of Terrell, Texas.

It appears that MATTHEWS may be operating a book for

RECHENBIRG inasmuch as RECHENBERG and MATTHEWS are very close

friends..

RE: ALLEN MINTER, aka.,

Richard Melvin

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DI 166-124)

On 10/28/63, DL-185-C-TE advised that he had had breakfast

with RICHARD MELVIN earlier that day at Vick's Restaurant located

on Commerce Street in downtown Dallas. Informant stated that at

exactly 10:30 a.m., MELVIN excused himself and went to the pay

telephone located in the restaurant. Upon returning to their

table, MELVIN advised the informant that he had just received the

line for this week's football games. Informant had previously

advised that MELVIN and WILLIAM RAY

. DAVIS

are furnishing the

money for a bookmaking operation.

-2 -

629-12-4622

'HH 45760 DocId: 32293759 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-554-SUB

RE:

SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka.

IGA

(DL 162-129)

HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka.

IGA

(DI 162-95)

On 10/30/63, LITTLE was observed to leave his residence

located in Irving, Texas, and drive to the Stevens Park Shopping

Center located in Dallas,

Texas.

After parking in a secluded

spot, he was observed to

join WINFREY in WINFREY's automobile

parked at a nearby location.

They

were observed talking and

looking at a paper approximately 8' by 12" 1n size.

After being

together for approximately 30 minutes, they departed the area in

their own automobiles.

On 11/1/63, Lt. JACK REVILL, Criminal Intelligence

Section, Dallas Police Department, advised that he had learned

that LITTLE presently possesses Texas license plates P19816, and

that he is allegedly in the used car business at Grand Prairie,

Texas, under the name of Little and Steele Used Cars.

On 11/2/63, Mrs. MARY WAYNE WALKER COX telephonically

contacted the FBI Office and advised that she is the former wife

Of MARVIN COX, who is employed in the bookmaking business with

a Mr.

LITTLE.

She advised that she has several names of customers

which her former husband contacted and would furnish same to the

FBI. Arrangements were made to contact Mrs. COX on 11/5/63.

RE:

GARLAND POLLARD; ET AL

ITWI

(DI 165-150)

On 10/28/63, DL-185-C-TE advised that he has been

attempting to contact the telephone number given to him by BILLy

RAY DAVIS on a dally basis since 10/23/63, with negative results.

Informant stated that on one occasion, he contacted POLLARD at

his residence and was able to place a

bet with him on a football

game. Daily checks

of the area of the apartment house where the

telephone is located at 4807 Denton Drive were negative concern-

ing known automobiles of POLLARD, DAVIS and MELVIN.

= 3 -

HH 45760 DocId: 32293759 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DIs 94-55A-SUB

REVIEWED BY RENOFA TASK FOACE

1/9/48 dd

TELENOt IN MAL

RELEASE IN PART

RE:

COME STONE BEA

ITWI; ITAR - GAMBLING,

CONSPIRACY

"(DI 165-116)

TOTAL DENIAL

On 11/1/63, JAMES GANN, Special Agent, Intelligence

Section, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), advised that

JFK Law 11(a)

RE:

PROSTITUTION ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION

(DI 31-5614)

On 11/1/63, Lt. JAck REVILL, Dallas POlice Department,

advised that he had received information from a most reliable

informant that a Mr. HOWARD BUITS of the Howard Butts Dredging

Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, had made arrangements for a

date with a girl named TUESDAY, who frequents the Montmartre Club.

Informant

subsequently advised REVILL that her telephone number

was DAVIS 4-4378. REVILL stated this number is listed to a

ROMONA WAGNER Apartment C, 2344, Connecticut Lane, Dallas, with

her telephone reference revealing that she was a former secretary

and had done modeling work in Santa Ana, California.

REVIL related that the telephone service man who

placed the telephone in her apartment advised that he had dis-

covered a tape recorder hidden in the night stand beside the

bed with a microphone running from the recorder and placed under

the pillow.

He also advised that there was an attachment leading

from the recorder, which the telephone man was of the opinion would

be attached to the telephone.

RE:

GIIF

WICHITA FALLS, TEXAS

(DI 94-50)

On 10/29/63, District Attorney STANLEY KIRK, Wichita

falls, texas, advised recently an unknow. caller had summoned.

the fire department, police department, an ambulance, and these

departments had dispatched units to a private residence on Las

Vegas Street in Wichita Falls. It was nighttine and the house

=4 -

62-9

-462

HH 45760 DocId: 32293759 Page 5

---

