# docid-32315139

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10339-10103

RECORD SERIES :

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-5-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO:

BU

TITLE :

DATE: 07/20/1964

PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32315139

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

SAC (92-61) (P)

FROM

: SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

SUBJECT:

STEVE MGADDINO

AR

on 3/2/64, BU 280-C* advised that the subject and

PETER (MACK) had a brief conversation during which MACK

indicated that his sales of beer at the Pine Bowl Inn ran

about 105 cases. He indicated that he had an appointment

wich distributors of five breweries on 3/2/64.

Date: JUL 20 1964

Subsequently the informant observed the subject,

FRED RANDACCIO, JOHN (CAMMILLERI), SAM RANGATORE,

PETER A.

MAGADDINO, and one or two other unidentified men having a

conversation. Several of the more pertinen topics discussed

were inter-related and covered such topics as:

1.

The various political figures in New York

State who are or have been associated with

the subject and his gambling activities

92-501

(PETER MACK) (SA SPLENDORE)

92-448

STEVE GRECO) (C)

92-174

F. RANDACCIO) (SA ANDREWS)

-

92-278

CAMMILLERI) (SA ROSELLI)

92-274

S. RANGATORE) (SA ROSELLI)

-

-80-2009 (BUFFALO POLICE DEPARTMENT) (C)

1

- 92-84 (JOSEPH FALCONE) (C)

- 92-399 (GRAFT AND CORRUPTION, NEW YORK STATE COUNTIES) (C)

- 137-409 (SA EDDY)

- 92-302 ( ANTHONY PERNA) (SA LALIME

- 92-389 (SAM PIERI) (SA

WYNN)

- 92-273 (D. SANSANESE) (SA OBUHANICH,

mant

]

- 92-128 (c:

A. MONTANA) (C)

- 92-53 (J. C. MONTANA) (SA ANDREWS)

- 92-404 1J. FELL (C

]

- 92-513 (MARTIN SIEGEL) (SA ROSELLI

- 92-56. (DOMINICK D'AGOSTINO) (SA JENKINS)

1

- 92-271

(JOSEPH TODARO) (C)

80-

TONAWANDA,

80÷

) = 92-61 (SUB 5) (C)

IAGARA PALIS, N.Y. PD) CO)

92-6/ suk5-30

SEANCHED

_INDEXED

SERIALIZEDF

JUL 2 0 1964

FS/ - BUFFALO

FBJ

t233552

DocId: 32315139 Page 2

---

## Page 3

That one doin T Kenned Assassination RecoRas CollectIon 89 359-10185 107 motes:

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61

2.

Corrupt Police Officers who have taken graft

from MAGADDINO in connection with his numbers

bank

The advisability of picking a Jewish person to

front for the organized Italian criminal element

in the Buffalo area.

4.

Potential locations where the organized criminal

element could meet to discuss their business

affairs with' immunity. from the authorities.

The conversation began with a criticism of some

unidentified person who may be New York State Assemblyman

STEVE GRECO.

GRECO was critized for attempting to avoid

being seen with the subject and or his associates:

remarked that this person found himselr under certain conditions

because of him..

These conditions were not described as: good

or bad, but the impression was that they were good. An allegation

was made that ROCKEFELLER. (New York State Governor NELSON A.

ROCKEFELLER) contributed $50,000.00 to this individual, probably

for a political campaign.

The names mentioned in this portion

of the conversation were:

1:

(ENU) PONISI Or PANESE (PH) (POANESSA.)

2.

IONY PARANA (PH (PERNA

3:

DANNY SANSANESE

4

JACK CARIARIELLO (PH)

5.

(FNU) SABBATINO (ANTHONY SABBATINE, former

Niagara Falls,

N.Y. Councilman?)

'6..

CHARLIE' (INU.) (referred to as "cur CHARLIE,"

probably CHARLES MONTANA)

7.

PEPE (LNU)

O. " TONY (LNU)

9.

JOHN MONTANA

10. FALCONErs son (probably JOSEPH FALCONE's son

of Albany)

11: Governor ROCKEFELLER

12.

(FNU) DE SAPIO (probably CARMINE DE SAPIO,

former New York State Democratic

Chairman)

-2-

DocId: 32315139 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kernety Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 Use 2107 Hote).

SAC (92-61) (P)

• 7/21/64

SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

STEVE MAGADDITO, aka

AR

on 2/20/64,

BU 280-0* advisco that the subject,

JOKE CAMINORI, ROY (INU) and two or threc unidentified

maLes, had a conversation which in substance indicated

that some "girl" is going to be "hit" in all probability

1 ровав у

In Canada.

The person maling the "hit" nay stay as a

queat at the home of "PRANZA's children"

30 that 1f

questioned he can explain his presence in the arca as

Mer on vacation. In conjunotion sua tuls

one of the

speakers (possibly ROY

corment about

cntourI), tella arother that be san (Lu) or JOHN

come back through

Toronto.

Gome back from Canada."

And then someone w11]

ict him

lonow "It's bech lone."

The conversation further rolfected that the

speakers are concerned about some unidentified male person

who may do something wrong:

It 1s ropcated several times

throughout the conversation that if this person does anything

wrong, he would be burking hinself.

At the beginning of the

conversation one of the speakers remaris to the other that

he should be careful or cousin

"LOUIE" (PH) because he

either knows or will know something.

It could not be

determined 1f cousin

"LouT?" might be the person subsaguently

discused as hurting himself if he does something wrong.

Set forth below is a llteral report of the

inforation furnished by the informant in this regard:

1 - 92-278 (J. CAMILLERI) (ROSELLI

- 92:402

UNSUBS; ALBIRT AGUECI-VICZIM) (SA JENKINS'

9522-

- 92-61 (SUB. 5)

92-61 Aub 5-27

DooId: 32315139 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleotion Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Foter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61

ANOTHER

In they come digging around heres

the American

UNKNOIN MALE!

will come and they wontt be able to touch him.

UNKITOWN MATE:

the (inaudible word), It you done something

NO. I or NO. 2 wrong; but you never

done nothing wrong.

UNICORN MALE: No. You leiii one (remainder inaudible).

N0. 1

UNOVOWN MALE:

(Gravel votec), (Tree worde inaudible),

chings of the law.

UINKOTOWN MADE:

A31 nighty I might as wely get home.

110. 1 or 10. 2 nudible comment by soncone)

UNUKIONDY MATE:

He told me hols coming on account of the

others.

When you came from D'AGOSTINO"

or possioly So. Augustine).

And then 12

they done something wrong (interrupted).

STEVE

MACADDI NO:

Mell, it ho done somethine wrong, he dia it

so hinealt and no one elop.

It thore any

questions

to ask him;

1/21

ask hầm the

questions because he docan't understand

American.

Yoah. I sou to

go:

Are you leaving, Compa?

JOHN

CAMILLERT:

SmS:

MAGÁDDINO:

JOEIN

CAMNTLLERIS

Yeah. I got to go home.

The infornation set forth above was furniahed

in suitably paraphraged form to ROVP DY SA JAMES P. MC MAHON

Immediately upon reculpt of the details of the information

from Kansas City.

It appeared that the incormation contained

thoroin nay poseibly polate to lico. Ansare AGueeL,

and was

thererore fuentched to RIP,

to la tuan furnished so to

the Metropolitan Toronto Police Department since it related

to a possibly homielde.

DocId: 32315139 Page 5

---

