# docid-32297573

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10349

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1292

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/17/1964

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32297573

Page 1

214

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO

FROM

OPIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN. KEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Begint

C. A. Evans

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

DATE: September 17, 1964

JUNE

Toisa f

Belmont

Mohr

-

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad _

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen —

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy _

Bruno is the "commission" member of La Cosa Nostra in the

Philadelphia area. He has been utilizing the automobile of our top

echelon informant, PH 614-C-TE, for trips averaging 200 to 300 miles 2-

According to our informant, Bruno is converting his assets into

currency of large denominations and contemplates leaving for Italy,

probably in October of 1964.

The extent of his stay in Italy is not

known.

It is believed that Bruno is also meeting with other "commission"

leaders on the trips he is taking with the informant's automobile.

SAC Jamieson of the Philadelphia Office called on the

morning öf September 17, 1964, and requested permission to install

a CAT transmitter in the informant's automobile, which will enable

the Philadelphia Office to cover Bruno's conversation while in the

informant's car.

According to Jamieson, Philadelphia has-an opportunity

today to make this installation with complete security and without the

knowledge of

will be in the Dominican Republic.

ACTION

..1

SAC Jamieson was informed that unless advised to the contrary

by close of business today he should proceed with the installation.

sound trained personnel of the New York Office, who are knowledgeable

in the technique of making this installation, are available to the

Philadelphia Office.

In view of the importance of Bruno in La Cosa

Nostra and the recent developments which indicate he is meeting with

important members of this organization and converting his assets, it

is recommended that the present opportunity to make this installation

be utilized.

SECCINE

1312717÷292

1- do Der

Donohue

- Mr. Contad

1

Mr. Belmont) On,

Mr o

Evans

1

1

Mr.

Stanley

-

MY.

Mc Andrews

1

- MY o

Kelly

EX-108

ROUTE IN ENVELOPE:

18.

8 1964

DocId: 32297573

Page 2

---

