# docid-32307127

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO .

TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1964

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

SECRETI

On 5/26/59, WF 1133-S* learned that Cuban Economic Attache CS

Gonzalo de la Pezuela and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank, Washington, D. C., for a loan of "several million

dollars" for Cuba. • The

was to be used for the purchase of

unidentified equipment for cuba. According to the source

the

request for this loan

had the approval of several Cuban officials,

including Manuel Ray. (7)

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-60269. 70(4)

02-60269-196/00 V

2)1

On 7/15/60, Angel Sebastian Ros Escala advised that he came

to the US on 5/19/60,

He stated that he had worked for the July 26

With Manolo Ray, an action group leader. #)

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

recruiting and planning to fight against

castro. He related that re aust worked por three or tout months

(dates not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

portion he Resume arrested was succeeded on meane his

•Cienfuegos. 1.

97-4133-20

(21)v

Havana, report dated 11/2/59 revealed that Huber

Matos (105-82086) had decided to remain in Camaguey rather than flee

to the States inasmuch as he might be able to do more in ridding the

Revolutionary Group of communism.

Source stated that Matos' awareness

of the communistic influence in the Government was alerted by Manola

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

NiS

Source further stated that Ray and U

REVIEWED BY EPTUFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON

6-13-97 0A3/2TP

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

SECRET

• TOTAL DENIAL

-4-

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

(continued)

It was noted in this telegram that "Diego", as a leader in

the havana underground during the Batista period, might have beer

close to Ray and might actually be working for him at present.

further, Ja reports to the Embassy on "Diego" could be a move

ostracize him. A (U) DECLASS pER ARmy lET. DTD. 18-22-97

Cuban Mintster of Public works,

was a member of the underground

underground in Cuba] State Department files failed to indicate(

this informant advised that Ray

was head of the

Whether Manolo Ray was identical to Manuel Ray. (e)

105-92195-6 p. B, 1,3

(6)

SI par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

On 10/17/60 WF 116175)

famed several individuals who had

either joined or exhibited interest in joining the anti-Castro

(a)

organization called the Resistencia Civica (97-4481).

Among these

was Raul Chibas, former head of the Cuban Railroads who was believed

by the informant to be currently residing in NYC.

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray. Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the US was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in Cuba and of the continuing unrest of the cuban people DoM

97-4481-1 p. 2

(3) V

Be ray invad a a net to ta trop in thing rain d

se ready to invade Cuba bi

fter US elections on 11/8/60 to avoid the matter becoming an electior

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order that there would be no criticism against the new

President.

C(4)

(continued on next page)

-8_Ü=CRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 3

---

## Page 4

- SECHET

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

received some sort of US aid and sanction in their joint efforts.

It was their plan to contact Ray personally upon their release from

the detention facility at McAllen in an effort to consolidate all

such opposition groups in a united front to combat castro. (45 u)

195-987157 80 8.2464250 102247

Anmy It. of

zations, (protect identity) advised that Hector Garcia Soto had indicated

dentity

around February, 1961, that he was secretly anti-Castro and was working

For Manolo Ray in the

MRP.

Garcia stated that he still believed in

the governmental reforms Castro put into effect and believed in

Castro's system of government but did not agree with communism and

the influence it had in the Cuban Government. (& 71)

105-80787-376

p. 8,10

(22)V

defected from the Castro regime, was closely associated with

Manolo Rey and Raul Chibas of the MRP. *#)

105-97525-1

(45)V

On 2/6/61, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

West, Bradenton, Fla., former President of the Cuban National Bank,

advised that the MRP did not have an organization in the US but that

there were several members of the organization in the US and Puerto

Rico in exile.

Among those he named

was Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

Fla., phone TU 8-0978.,

64-44765-17

(21,45)V

SECRET

-12 -

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

By letter dated 3/16/61 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 S• W.

4th St., Miami, NM 639-S, (134-6356) advised President John F. Kennedy

of the current Cuban situation.

Concerning Manuel Ray, he stated that

during

meetings the previous week in NY and Washington,

Ray actively

participated in the future destiny of Cuba. He also stated that

Ray was an avowed enemy of the US and that

he had

heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans. Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba

honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia, Red China and

their satellites in order to block American

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

(21)

support of American officials and, by inference, of the US Government

Above letter set out!

134-6356-42-

(19)V

Roberto Vale Ares, 530 Southeast First St.

advised that he arrived in the US from Cuba on 3/18/61.

Hialeah, Fla.,

He indicated

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 1961, he began working in the

underground against Castro with the MRP and became acquainted with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel Rey.

He related

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the MRP but

later became a member of Comandos L (105-117222) in Miami.'

105-117222-71 p. 75

(46)V

On 3/30/61, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami, advised

that he fled

from Cuba recently because he was wanted by the Cubar

Government for involvement in counterrevolutionary activities.

He

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

drastically since Ray fled to the US.:".

105-95461-9 p. 2

(11)V

SECRETI

-16-

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

On 3/30/61, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami , Fla.,

advised that he was a member of the committee in exile of the 30th

of November Movement (105-92196)•

He stated that this committee

had been meeting frequently with

Jose Niro Cardona, the president of

the RC which had been formed recently through the union of the FRD of

Manuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray. He

continued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYC for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the RC. :/)

105-92196-2 p. 5

(6)V

Evelio Duque Rodriquez, 627 9th Ave., NYC, advised that

shortly after his arrival in NYC on 3/12/61 from Cuba, he joined the

MRP which was headed by Manuel Ray. He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 3/31/61. He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functions

because he had some misgivings about the political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray ' 411

105-117538-11 p. 1,2

(14)V

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1948 to 1952•

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visit

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 4/17/61. L% (U)

he and his entire Council, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, including Pujol: l> (21)

105-99200-96 p. 4

( 11) V

On 2/7/62, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been a member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

contact and association with Camilo Cienfuegos (105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance.

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-17-

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juan

Adler De La Torre, member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's (8) 41)

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might return to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority was Armando Lora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant

to Ray-(9) U)

64-4461-975 p. 1,3,4,7

(2/32)V

A CIA report dated 4/5/61 indicated that its source had heard

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

, Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US. This

friend, who

was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure

group in

the US and was becoming a head in the US

without a body in Cuba.

97-4524-5

•(3)v

On 4/6/61, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it

was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.'i

It was noted that he was a former business

partner of Manuel

Ray Rivero when the Hotel Havana Hilton was being built (date not given)

He regarded Ray as honest but, if not a communist, at least a very

radical leftist. us

134-9281-7

(19\,37)V

by Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext as

a newspaperman.

A translation from Spanish of the report indicated

that prior to his departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon the country and break with

Castro.

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

exile, Pardo stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

Manuel Ray and other exile leaders but politically, none. Au)

100-420896-12 p. 4

(3)V

SECRED.

-19-

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

An ONI report dated 4/17/61 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry DeBerly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

established Provisional Council.

He declared that Manolo Ray was

inquestionably a communist for he had been too close to Fidel, Raoul

and Che* to be otherwise. He also suspected Miro Cardona.

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

were a "frustrated lot"

who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

currently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. ()(L)

134-10158-3

(29) V.

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

traveled between and there votect identity, busined tat hanuel

Ray should not be included as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy.

had convinced someone in authority that he had a much larger following

one i autor to 14

He stated that Ray obviously

in the underground than he actually had..u

(113-7-210-367 & (

(19)V

Vice President and Director of

advised that he had recently received for publication

in that newspaper

an article from Aureliano Sanchez Arango, who was actively involved in

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro. This article was

highly critical of the RC of which Manuel Ray was

a member. Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned..

64-45716-225 p. 2

(2)V

NESS

REVIEWED BY EJFK TASK FORCE

ON b13-52 dol

A RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

brh

-20-

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 8

---

## Page 9

C

SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised that Rogelio Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the MRP in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information

concerning

Murillo.

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11) V

On 5/2/61, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed Forces of

the Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnished

a report in Spanish which set forth four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel. Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas. All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray,

head of the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

Castro organization by Dr. De Leon.'

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

On 5/4/61, Emilio Guede Fernandez (105-94082), 1220 W. 60tl

Hialeah, Fla.,

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

Ray.

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

Miami and expressed a desire to do something to assist the MRP. He

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-Castro propaganda. Guede went to

Miami on 12/18/60. 41

On 5/9/61, Rigoberto Castellanos, PSI (protect identity), a

Cuban exile who was closely acquainted with Ray and who had knowledge

of the activities of persons associated with him, advised that Guede

joined the MRP after turning against Fidel Castro.

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah.:

Add. info. according to the "Miami News," 3/23/60.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8)V

-22 -

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET:

The State Department advised that on 8/22/61, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras (109-430), former President. of Cuba currently living in

the US, met with a group of exiles, members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists and Businessmen, in Mexico. During the course of the

meeting, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but highly

praised Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray. He stated that the us

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the US over the invasion fiasco.(R/u

109-430-2409

DECLASS PER DOS PER

(28)V

thEIR 1E1. DTD 1-6-48

SCO/RSA

5-3-981 JFK

A Newark report dated 8/22/61 revealed that George R. Damon

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US.

Rey had made Damon

a colonel in the army that was attempting the overthrow of Castro.

Rey was currently in Miami

and had commissioned Damon to purchase

motors for PT boats.

Damon found motors he could obtain for $400. He

intended to charge Rey $750 plus $150 transportation

charges. Damon

stated that he made frequent trips to Cuba from Miami, presumably In

PT boats.

He would smuggle people out of Cuba for a fee but would not

allow them to take anything on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb.

Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear)

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 8/29/61, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

originally allied with him not because Castro failed them but because

they failed Castro.

One such individual was Manolo Ray, who was

currently Coordinator of the MRP in the US. Arazozo stated that Ray

was Minister of Public Works under Castro for a time and that Ray's

brother also had a good position in the Castro regime but was caught

mishandling funds and was either shot or committed suicide.

believed in many things that Castro did, including state ownership oi

principal industries.

Arazoza continued that he, Ray, was organizing

a movement in the US

against Castro and that Dr. Ricardo la Flor and

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga, physicians at the Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

Castro. u

134-10688-1 p. 7

(19/29) V

-27- SECREM

HW

45937 DocId:32307127 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRETI

(continued)

Source continued that reports from Cuba indicated that the

people continued to have faith even though they might have withdrawn

all their support in the national cadres in exile, including Ray'al

105-104188-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Francisco Javier Soler, Cuban political refugee in New

Standas& Section of the i stry be 1, mereen it rott identity),

advised that, to his knowledge, activity among underground groups in

Cuba had ceased considerably.

He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

group headed by Manolo Ray or Tony Varona. "M )

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 1/11/62.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 1/15/62, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1/1/62 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the

DR were due to "Yankee imperialism."

He continued that at

present the US had a government which thought along very liberal and

Leftist lines. Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had beel

sont by the us to assist the reconstruction in the DR. Z)

109-12-211-1263

(16436) L

SECRETI

-30-

NH 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 11

---

## Page 12

'SECRET)

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel Ray, despite

Miro Cardona were the most highly respected Cuban exile leaders

On 7/25/62, Piero Fedel his leftist thinking, and Jose

according to the rebel organizations in Cuba.

105-95461-115 р. В, 4

(11)V

On 8/3/62, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

(105-113450), Miami

advised that he and many other Cubans had a

very poor opinion of several Cuban exile leaders, including Manuel

because they were once with the Castro regime and

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

for them to advance politically and financially. Hernandez classified

Ray as probably the most ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

noty the host ambit

of the exiled leaders.

105-113456-1 p. 7

(34)1

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-116815), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerl;

a member of the anti-Castro CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

probably NM 776-S, 8/10/62)(9821)

105-116815-1 p. 4

(14)V

A CIA report dated 8/22/62 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

MRP leader

was seeking a combined command of all five resistance

groups in Cuba and a pooling of funds

strength to the resistance movement. (w)

the CRC to give greater

CIA INFO (PA) REMAINS

105-95461-125

LASSIFHED PER THEIR

(11)V

12/31/90 LTR

5Р6 ВЗР

Каа (*24,326)

-16/91/

on 8/27/62, Fred W. Stewart, President, International

San Juan, advised that Jose Miguel Alonso Mendez

(105-111831) was in San Juan working in the anti-Castro movement of

Manolo Ray.

105-111831-8 p. 3

(25)V

SI 105-111831-5

(25)V

-36-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

On 10/10/62, Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Miami, which address had been the haqrs. of the

Novaler so Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubano (Cuban Revolutionary

Recovery Movement) (MRRC) (105-108646)• Estiva advised that the

MRRC had been dissolved in mid-September, 1962,

and that most of the

members had been absorbed by the recently formed JURE, which took

over the above hdars.

Source stated that JURE was organized in

Puerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, and

included members from five different anti-Castro groups?::;

105-108646-15

(12)V

OTHER 4

On 10/11/62, PSI

advised that

he had known Gonzalo Dean Suarez

(protect identity)

(105-114953) personally

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a follower of Manolo Ray, a

Cuban exile

residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-114953-2 p. 2

(27)

On 10/16/62, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-112098). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization in

any way, he would have immediately severed his relationship. u

105-112098<68 p. 2

(12425)V

Carmen T. Torres, personnel officer, Corporacion de

405 Ponce de Leon Ave.,

Rio

: (105-114953)

began working there on 11/1/62.

At that time he listed

as an employment

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

105-114953-5 p: 1

(27)V

-37-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

A CIA report dated 1/23/63 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partidó Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party) had been approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

to obtain permission from the PRD to establish JURE

By letter dated 2/15/63 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the

Cuban and Latin American situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned several things he could not under-

stand such as,

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

anti-communist? - I car

mention others' names as Manuel Ray, Justo

carity 0, god Patos at tone al

He also set out references who coulo

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Miami but was dropped when his army record, which showed a discharg

for psychoneurosis

became known.

It was further noted that Hoadles

should be contacted but that he should not be utilized as a source.u

134-9231-8

(19)V

A CIA report dated 2/27/63 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

greater possibilities for overthrowing the Castro regime.

dIA INFO REMAINS CLASSIFIED

NIPS I, APER THEIR 1/3190 LTe.

105-63791-25

SPEBJAGOL/L

12436)791

(3,33)V

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3/9/63 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with Governor Luis

Munoz Marin.

He intended to discuss the Cuban situation, the Dominican

situation,

and hoped to receive some

type of anti-castro support.

and Manuel Ray, heArtime indicated that it was his under-

standing that at present there was a personal rift between Munoz and

Ray and that this was an opportune time to make the trip to Puerto Rico.

105-85440-10

(4)V

-40-

"ECRET

NH 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 14

---

## Page 15

• SECRET

On 5/31/63, PSI

that there had been a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

some kind

rubt on sun the hirst cadet o run anister

Fidel Castro in 1959- (tu)

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6/4/63 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6/4/63, no

agreement had been made.

personally spoken with

advised that on 6/14/63 he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

' National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha 66 (105-112098) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Mano10"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Ray and stated that Ray wanted only to get all anti-Castro organizations

under the control of JURE. @)U)

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-112098-315 p. 1a,3,4

(12,26)

On 6/14/63, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

advised that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

Miami, F12 duba and was currently head of the Movimiento Recuperacion

officer in

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133)•

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against Cuba.

He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. u

97-4133-63 p.-2

(2) V

- 44-

SECRET!

NN 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

in Rio

Peedras, Poerto Racy explained MRP'S

216328. 11,12

purpose., (Juan

Agiular, protect identity,.

1/4/61)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

directing underground there.

MRP

respected by Cuban exiles in US. Rufo

adorn 20 6593 Sanuary, 19655(2)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in

and underground activities.

Gonzalez Lajonchere

(Hugo

underground, 1/6/61 working with FRD

И)

Third in series of articles entitled,

"Countdown for Castro," by Joseph Martin

and Phil Santora discussed anti-Castro

movements and dedicated cold-blooded

opportunists thirsting for power.

Article set out brief biographical sketch

of Ray; his desire for "Fidelism without

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

possible leftist leanings; his acceptance

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

reference to his brother.

Sub A

(18)v

"NY Daily News"

1/10/61

Ray was

head of MRP. • (Investigator

Document enclosed

Nurcashed document entitled "Cuban

Philadelphia,

2693 enc1. p. 3

(16)V

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 1/23/61) 6(4) FINS STaR/456 /6/93

Majority of most important front groups

2748

such as MRP headed by Ray led either by

(45) V

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

Ray,

known communist,

openly declared that only thing wronc

(continued on next page),

-46-

SECRET

HW

45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 16

---

## Page 17

SEÜh.I

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was

a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in Cuba but while Ray was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

Executive Committee member.

(Armando

Lora, Miami, Fla. 3/14/61):

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

currentlv MRP leader:

set forth his

policies for the next Cuban Government.

(Interview of Manuel Ray Rivero, 3/28/61)

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

expected; Miro

President of Cuba, visited anti-Castro

camp in Guatemala

with CIA officials;

Ray ordered underground, in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion force

which might land in Cuba.

Betancourt, MRP member, who reportedly

received intormation from kay,ser

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

in. almost nightly telephonic contact

with Ray prior to April,

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161-S)

(и)

All Cuban exiles for unity

against

Castro but unity being prevented by

leaders of various factions, including

protot identity one net savenource

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2773

(28)v

2960

(28) v

28850

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.,

member

of MRP Executive

Board, 5/31/61) 1:

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

University on 5/3/61 recommending

continuance of revolution against Castr

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass:,

Cuban Consulate)

-4.8-

2847

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 4/17/61

there was much discontent among pilots

2854

(17)

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by US State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Ray must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated in

recent Cuban invasion, 5/5/61) 11

Informant in close contact with Ray.

Prior to 4/17/61 Cuban invasion, Ray

2894

17)V

against bloodshed and violence but

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro.

Ray had practically given

up on US assistance and would seek

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government. Supposed to meet

in Florida during week of 7/9/61

with other Cuban Jeaders. (NY 3248-

PSI, 7/10/61) C

XU)

Meeting at home of Dr.

Guillermo

Alonso Pujol, former Vice President

of Cuba, during weekend of 7/15/61

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. (NY 2865-5(0)U)

Ray denounced FRU and planned

further association with it.

910 po 1,

36)v

(MM 639-S, 5/25/61)

(u)

Claimed US Government forced his ouster

head of MRP; resigned from MRP.

(Miami newspapers (unidentified), mid

July, 1961)

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

zation in Miami refused to accept

Ray's replacement from Cuba and claimed

that organizations in Miami and Cuba

should mutually decide on replacement

rader ta + 095, 728/839 (2)

(continued on next page)

ECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP.

MRP considered largest and most significant

in underground

in Cuba. (No source)

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach, Fla.,

7/28/61) /16

Resigned from MRP.

(Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP torn by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by MRP and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organization

as previously.

(identified)

(Numerous informants

(Date of mail 10/3/61)

'(?)

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission

MRP lost many members due to "socialistic"

(PSI Juan Fernando

(Date of mail 11/24/61)

(pet dentities)

Former head of MRP in Miami,

currently

in Puerto Rico. (No

source, date of mail

1/9/62) ,?

Ray was associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who

stated he backed

Castro because of a need for increased

social benefits for Cuban workers.

(Bureau Agent obtained information on

3/15/62)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

'PAGE NUMBER

2959/P.

(17,3612

2940

2983

(28) v

OTHER 4

047 p. 1.

17)v

3109

117)

(continued on next page)

- 50-

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray employed by US Government in the

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by majority

of Cuban exiles as anything from outright

communist to a "leftist" in his thinking

which resulted in MRP being thought of

as extremely liberal.

not clear, possibly 5/8/62JC(U)

Ray returned to Puerto Rico on 5/17/62

group in Puerto Rico to attack Cuba, help

consisting of war materials and

financial assistance. Other Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

osition to attack Cuba the same time as

ay but not under his leadership.

Exiles

felt this important lest Ray's groups

would be successful and he subsequently

would claim he liberated Cuba.

subject of

Bufile 105-99003)

Dr. Ernesto Aragon Y Godoy, 233 E. 69th

St., NYC, who was secretary to Dr

Miro Cardona, President of CRC, advised

he and Cardona were informed on 5/26/62

by MRP in Havana that they should have

• coordinators instead of one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

individual.

Aragon stated that Nuevo,

Godoy and Valdespino were against Ray:

Aragon saw small chance of Ray bringing

together a following within MRP.

(*Й)

On 5/28/62, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray. Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said, "we'll see" but left

impression that Ray would have no say

in CRC.

{21)

-51-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3183 P. 19,20

(17)v

3179 p. 1,2

(28)V

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

"Miami Herald" (date not given) reported

that ta out he ago tra conne

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

(Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 6/20/62) (4i)

Ray had practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center.

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro. Mariano Roca

PSI, protect identity, 5/6/627 64141)

Ray said that all "Popular" political

factions outside Cuba would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed

almost_ entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 7/24/62)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)

leader and consultant for Puerto Rico

Planning Board, would head group of

underground personnel expected at

gathering of Cuban exiles

in Ponce,

Puerto Rico on September 15 and 16, 1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9/4/62)

9/4/62 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

crisis

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

cuban cat

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

meeting

as they had no confidence in Ray

or his ideas.

974/622108

И

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3275 P: 1,3,1

18)V

328) enc1. p. 1-3.

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

-52- SECRED

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray and

followers would continue efforts to

win exiles by trickery, and false

ropaganda. efforts.

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped out strategy to throw

intr, on 962,5,

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between 9/24/62 and 10/6/62, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime

except Ray's

forces or any former, criminals.

Cardona

concerned over pressure by State

Department to readmit Ray into the

come one can ta tell darin of

Puerto Rico who supported Ray.

From

statements made by State Department,

Cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray who would never be read-

mitted to the Consejo if up

Str; I, do gate ax akx the theb9th

"Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

dated 10/10/62, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

with the MRP, JURE and Alpha 66.

CIA INFO INLAST&

REMAINS

GASSIFIEO

PERTHEIR

M31/90LTR-

86327 C

(9211,326)

OTHER 4

Sub A "The Miami Herald'

29) 9/19/62

3332 p. 2-

18)V

Copy of handbook enclosed

419/82643,38, 5,380

(continued on next page)

-53-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE

in bank.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3414 p. 26,2

.18)v

Ray considered

by Cuban exiles in

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends

but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

it by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department. Com 639-5,

2/1/63700 21)

Around early March

Miro Cardona, President of CRoTose

complained to former Senator Santiago

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

with do expressed disgust support

stated it was

• time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should Us support of Ray become

pronounced. (CIA) * (U)

Jose Ruiz-Williams

'Alfert,

command of heavy artillery during April.

1961 invasion, contacted Ray in Puert

153312

25353713

-54-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

45937 DocId:32307127 Page 23

---

## Page 24

C

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Same information as serial 3575 according to

"The Miami Herald," 5/11/63

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

30th of November and Frente Anti-

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE, headed by Ray, approached group for

admission but decision not reached as

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations.

(Joaquin

Godoy, in charge

of Foreign Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, May 16 and

19, 1963)

As of 5/27/63, Ray had not signed with

he Cuban Committee of Liberation,

nity group of exile organizations

(MM- 639-S)

И)

Ray was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as

head of MRP; currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

5/28/63)

Edwin Martin,

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Affairs,

mentioned, in a speech, 5 exile

organizations, including JURE headed

by Ray, as only organizations with

clandestine assets. JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being pushed by Governor

Luis

(Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of whom had excellent contacts

in Washington. (CIA rpt. 5/30/63) KYU)

CIA INFo IN 'S 45 REMAINS

CLASSIFIED PER

THEIR 1431/90

LTR.

586054/60 924326) 1/1/91

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3570

3585 po-7

(45)1

2681 р. 6

3595

• :

(continued on next page)

-55-

SECRET

NN 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

castrovement out stole now

was not

overt action.

that Fidel Castro realized people's

discontent with Raul Castro and Ernesto

Regarding Cuban Cabinet reorganization

General 5 it, concerned about cay

Cuban Consul (S]

(Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men.

stated that Ray lost Cabine

POSITIOn

DCS

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason). (NY 2494-S#)(S)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

to HAV-4 and/or Octavio Valdes, prominent

head of construction firm in Havana.()

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank"' set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

Technology, an apparent new post.

Ray

reportedly

had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according to

CIA.

«u)

Same

ormation as above according to

CIA

CIAINFO

IN LAST ZIPS

REMAINS

ASSIFIED PER

TMEIR. 12

, uR.

SPUBJA

ahilar

GO

5211,326)

-60-

987

(14)V

OTHER 1B, 1C

Sub A "NY Times" 11/27/59

(15,35)V

892

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)V Tribune" 11/27/59

10553313

989

( 14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "young crowd" considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

to a dynamically

revolutionary situation.

(NY 2494-S*)) (5)

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement. Ray replaced by

• Osmani

Cienfuegos as cabinet member under Castro.

Ray had been attempting to leave Cuba

clandestinely and ask asylum in US.

Ray may have recently taken asylum in

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US.

(Orlando

Alvarez Barquin,

Vice

President, Cubana

Airlines, 7/23/60) ir

Same information as above.

Same information as above according to

State Department. (U)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effectiveness.

Because of prestige

he enjoyed

as revolutionary leader

during Batista period and as competent

administrator while in Ministry of

he could serve as rallying

Cuba. (State Department, September, 1960)(4)(Q)

As of 9/22/60

Ray in Fla. (State Department) (4) (U)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

005 p.

14)1

050 p. 1-3,

15)v

2073

(15)\

022 P.

14)V

311 P.

270

2312

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Government would

permit Ray to be

2891

(15) V

leader of provisional government of

Cuba.

cab very y'enath with Cantro contensy

Minister of Public Works.

Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

Sherlock

hackley, Too earnined to shook

Ray prominent member of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

2937 p. 2

date of mail 4/28/61)

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

Forum, Room 401, Union Station,

3036

(28)

Washington, D.C.

tentatively scheduled

for 6/7/61 or 6/14/61; given privilege

of selecting his own audience. (WF (161-S)(@U)

Ray attended

above meeting on 6/7/61

during which he held question and answer

3088

(28)V

session.

Gave impression to those in

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability.

Cuban military Feld. (HiTS) lu)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

and

3237,85 2,3

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal of attitude of Ray, recently

denounced leader of MRP who had received

considerable adverse publicity.

Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American,

dangerously to the left,

and

unclear

on certain vital matters.

Ray

dropped from MRP\leadership because of

his leaders' dissatisfaction with his

ambiguous statements and fear that

would have "pidelismo sin' Fidel" (TU)

(continued on next page)

.-62-

SECRETI

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1961, Governor Munoz refused to

engineering

position.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received

attractive offer from

someone in US with Latin American

interests.

Ray appeared to be politically

dead as a Cuban leader. (Dr. Agustin

Castellanos Gonzalez,

under development

as a PSI-Cuba, protect identity, 8/6/61)

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US.

He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

Lant tys 178/0213 protect

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advisec

CSNY 2822-S on 2/1/62 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin» regretted recommending

Ray for membership as he lacked leadership

Ray approached by Captain Perez Alamas

(fnu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

and Manuel Toyos, member of the Huber

Matos group in exile, regarding reaction

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govern-

ment release some 2,000 political

prisoners in exchange for a "do-nothing-

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would return 26 of July Movement to power.

(CIA rpt. 1/4/63)/

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3557 p. 1

353533,2

009,

15K35)1

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

-63-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

I'he following references on Manuel Ray, aka. Manolo Ray.

Manolo Ray Rivero, Manuel Ray Rivero,

located in files maintained

in the Special File Room of the Files

and Communications Division,

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

64-330-210-1063

1100

105-86020-788

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1/9/61

-A "Sunday Visitor" 5/14/61

-A "The Worker" 11/14/61

-A "NY World Telegram" 2/23/62

14850)

(5)1

(5)

(5)

(5)

(5)°

(22)V

(5)1

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file. Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

-65-

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId: 32307127 Page 29

---

## Page 30

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 03/27/1964

• PAGES: 68

SUBJECTS :

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

* RESTRICTIONS:

1B; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

NW

v9.1

45937

DocId: 32307127 Page 30

33

---

## Page 31

SECRET

CORRELATION SINARY

Main File No: 97-4546

Date: March 27, 1964

Subject: Manuel Ray®Rivero

Date Searched: 7/24/63

ana lenta yardation were one name and alass to searched, ca

HAVANA,

Manuel Bay -River

FLA.

Manola Ray

N.X.

Manole Ray

D.C.

Mano loCRay

Nanua 1 Ray

Manuel©kay

Manuel Antonio Ray

Manuei R. Ray Rigero

Manuel Antonio Ray Rivero

VEN.

P.R.

Manolo Rey

12013

This summary also includes information on Manuel Ray Rivero found

under the following phrase:

• Manolo Ray Group

PER NAYY LE TIER DID.

6-13-97

ThEIR INTORmATION

SLD/KSR

This is a summary of information obtained from a review- 6-23-97

of all "see" references to the subject in Bureau files under the,

names and aliases listed above. All references under the above

(JFK)

names containing data identical with the subject have been included

except those listed at the end of this summary as not having been

reviewed, or those determined to contain the same information as

the main file.

This summary is designed to furnish a synopsis of the

information set out in each reference. In many cases

serial will contain the information in much more detail.

the original

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN PREFARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF

GOVERNMENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

Analyst

reggy Ann Boss

PAB: ceg: brh

1 - R. A. Mullins

1.

Coordinator

Approved

Theda W.

Norman

MCT.

on 1197-4546-23

Astultz

25 MAR 2 7 1964

.iX

Dactard. pop. 42; 59; ll letter cntered

in 190-16449-331. SobBTAGAT 1012590

yint

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRETI

On 5/26/59, WF 1133-S# learned that Cuban Economic Attache CS

Gonzalo de la Pezuela

and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank,

Washington, D. C.,

dollars" for Cuba. The

inidentified equipment for Cuba. According to the source

request for this loan had the approval of several Cuban officials,

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-60269• (Ф0(4)

[63-60269-195743 V72

On 7/15/60, Angel Sebastian Ros Escala advised that he came

to the US on 5/19/60, He stated that he had worked for the July 26

with Manolo Ray, an action group leader. 4)

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

consisted of organizing, recruiting and planning to fight againsi

castro. He related that he also worked for three or four month.

(dates. not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

Marigo the sane department Ray a succeeded i a man oned has

97-4133-20

(21)V

An

ONI.

Matos (105-82086) had decided to remain in Camaguey rather than fle

to the States inasmuch as he might be able to do more in ridding the

'evolutionary Group of communism.

f the communistic influence in the Government was alerted by Manola

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

REVIEWED BY ERUFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON

6-13-97 073/RTP

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CECRET

• TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45937°

DocId: 32307127 Page 32

-4-

---

## Page 33

(continued)

SECRET

It was noted in this telegram that "Diego"

, as a leader in

the Havana underground during the Batista period, might have beer

close to Ray and might

actually be working for him at present.

ostracize him.

On 10/17/60

Cuban Minister of Public Works,

was a member of the underground

Cuba.

On 12/20/60, _this informant advised that Ray was head of the

inderground in Cuba. State Department files failed to indicate

whether Manolo Ray. Was identical to Nanuel Ray. X42

105-92195-6 p. B,1,3

(6)

SI par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

was Raul Chibas

former head of the Cuban Railroads who was believed

ov the informant to be currently residing in NYC.

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray. Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the US was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in Cuba and of the continuing unrest of the Cuban people&V

97-4481-1 p. 2

(3) 1

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order that there would be no criticism against the new

President.

(continued on next page)

45937

DocId: 32307127

Page

33

-8_ SECRETI

---

## Page 34

• SECRET

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

It was their plan

the detention facility at McAllen in an effort to consolidate all

residing in 3/no ah, have Ana losa Contra Santa an as a tron 34)

zations, (protect identity) advised that Hector Garcia Soto had indicated

around february, 1961,

that he was secretly anti-Castro and was working

¡or Manolo Ray in the

MRP .

the governmental reforms

Castro put into effect and believed in

castro's system of government but did not agree with communism anc

the influence it had in the Cuban Government. 71)

105-80787-376 p. 8,10

(22)V

In 2/2/61, Spencer Meredith, Apt. 17, Vanta Courts, S. W.

L2th Ave. and 20th St., Miami, advised that Rufo Lopez Fresquet

who was the husband of Anita Whitney (105-97525) and who recently

defected from the Castro regime, was closely associated with

Manolo Key and Raul Chibas of the MRP. a)

22302

105-97525-1

(45)V

On 2/6/61, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

"are to ever e are the organ atten in in 48 an errat

Rico in exile.

Among those he named was Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

4-44765-1'

2/45)V

SECREM

AHH 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 34

-12-

---

## Page 35

SECRET

By letter dated

3/16/61 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 S• "•

4th St., Miami, NM 639-S, (134-6356).

advised President John F. Kennedy

of the

current

Cuban situation.

Concerning Manuel Ray, he stated that

during meetings the

DE

Ray was an avowed enemy of the US and that he had heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans. Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American

citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia; Red China and their satellites in order to block Americar

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

or the PRaldency, th

(2)

support of American officials and, by inference, of the US Government

[134-6350-19r set outfie) Uj

134-6356-42

-(19)V

Hiale h, Flated

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 1961, he began working in the

underground against Castro with the MRP and became acquainted with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel Rey.

He related

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the MRP but

later became a member of Comandos L (105-117222) in Miami. ij

105-117222-71 p. 75

(46)V

over none or in vent to our tore lu donary a in the cu hea

Government for involvement in

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

105-95461-9 p. 2

(11)V

SECRET!

. HN 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page

35

-16-

---

## Page 36

SECRET

advised that he was

of November Movement (105-92196) •

He stated that this committee

nad been meeting frequently with Jose Miro Cardona, the president of

the RC which had been formed recently through the union of the FRD of

lanuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray. He

ontinued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYC for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the RC. i/

105-92.196-2 p. 5

(6)V

MRP which was headed by Manuel Ray.

He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 3/31/61. He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functions

because he had some misgivings about the

political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray sti

105-117538-11 p. 1,2

(14)V

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1948 to 1952.

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visit

critical of his trip

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 4/17/61. LU)

Under the caption, "Conference For Good Purpose," Dr. Pujol

mentioned that upon Dr. Miro Cardona's return to NY from the invasion,

he and his entire Council

, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, inequing rujat de (4),

105-99200-96 p. 4

(11)V

On 2/7/62, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been a member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

contact and association with Camilo Cienfuegos (105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance. i

(continued on next page)

SECRET

Aww 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 36

-17-

---

## Page 37

SECRET

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juar

Adler De La Torre,

member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's. (8) (4)

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might return to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority was Armando Lora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant

64-4461-975 p. 1,3,4,7

(2/32)V

A CIA report dated 4/5/61 indicated that its source had heard

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

inside

, Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US.

This

friend, who was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure

the us and was becoming a head in the Us without a body in cuba. elu)

(3)V

On 4/6/61, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.'.

radical leftist. lui

134-9281-7

(19137)V

Jose M. Cabezon, president of the delegation in Spain of

the FRD, furnished a copy of a report dated 4/11/61 concerning Jose

Pardo Liada (100-420896).

y Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext as

a newspaperman.

I translation from Spanish of the report indicate

that prior to his departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon the country and break with

Castro.

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

Manue Pay a other exile leaders but politically, none SU)

Pardo stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

100-420896-12 p. 4

(3) V

SECRET

HW 45937

DocId: 32307127 Page 37

-19-

---

## Page 38

SECRET

An ONI report dated 4/17/61 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry DeBerly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

He declared that Manolo Ray was

and chero to be otherine He a auspected tro Cardon to A our

He also suspected Miro Cardona. According

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

were a "frustrated lot" who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

currently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. (f)(u)

134-10158-3

(29) V

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

traveled between Cuba and the US (protect

etween can and Phero rotect identital, busined that Manuel

Ray should not be included as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy.

He stated that Ray obviously

had convinced someone in authority that he had a much larger following

in the underground than he actually had. u

[13-7-20-3677 64 4)

(19)V

the "Diario" Las Americas," a Miami da

Vice President and Director of

" a Miami daily Spanish language newspaper,

advised that he had recently received for publication in that newspaper

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro. This article was

highly critical of the RC of which Manuel Ray was

a member. Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned. .:

04-45716-225 p. 1

(2)v

REVEWED BY NEIF TASK FORCE

ON 613-52 dol

A RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

brh

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 38

-20-

SECRET

---

## Page 39

SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised that Rogelio Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the MRP in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information concerning

Mur1110. i:

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11) V

On 5/2/61, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed Forces of

the Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnished

a report in Spanish which set forth four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel.

Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas.

All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray,

head of the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

castro organization by Dr. De Leon.'

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

Miami and expressed a desire to do something to assist the MRP. He

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-Castro propaganda.

Guede went to

Miami on 12/18/60. 4:

On 5/9/61, Rigoberto Castellanos,

Cuban exile So was Rosee to casted with Ray and tee had knowledge

of the activities of persons associated with him, advised that Guede

joined the MRP after turning against Fidel Castro.

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah.

Add. info. according to the "Miami News," 3/23/60.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8) V

-22 -

SECRET

NW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 39

---

## Page 40

SECRET

The State Department advised that on 8/22/61, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras (109-430), former President

of Cuba currently living in

the US,

met with a group of exiles, members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists

and Businessmen, in Mexico.

During the course of the

praised, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but highly

Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray. He stated that the US

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the US over the invasion fiasco.(f(u

109-430-2409

DECLASS PER DOS PER

(28)V

thEIR 11. DTD 1-6-48

510/KSR

A Newark report dated 8/22/61 revealed that George R.

5-03-2. (amon)

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US.

Rey had made Damon

Rey was currently in Miami and had commissioned Damon to purchase

motors for PT boats.

intended to charge Rey $750 plus $150 transportation charges. Damon

stated that he made frequent trips to Cuba from Miami, presumably ir

PT boats.

de would smuggle people out of Cuba for a fee but would noi

allow them to take anything on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb.

Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear)

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 8/29/61, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

originally allied with him not because Castro failed them but because

brother also had

a good position in the Castro regime but was caught

nishandling funds and was either shot or committed suicide.

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga,

physicians at the Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

Castro. un:

134-10688-1 p. 7

(19\29)V

-27-

SECRET

_HW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 40

---

## Page 41

SECRET!

(continued)

Source continued that reports from Cuba indicated that the

people continued to have faith even though they might have withdrawn

all their support in the national cadres in exile, including Ray'.l

105-104188-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Orleans, La., who was until June, 1961, Director of the Quality

Standards Section of the Ministry of Commerce in Cuba (protect identity),

advised that, to his knowledge, activity among underground groups ir

He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 1/11/62.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 1/15/62, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of

Azucarera Haina C. por A of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1/1/62 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

on 1/15/62, according to source,

Franco met with Ode Lamborn,

Franco stated

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal

and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the DR were due to "Yankee imperialism."

He continued that at

present the US had a government which thought along very liberal and

leftist lines. Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had bee

sent by the US to assist the reconstruction in the DR. yU)

109-12-211-1263

(16,36)L

SECRET

-30-

WH 45937

DocId: 32307127 Page 41

---

## Page 42

•SECRET

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel

aported that one ano not agat a pete on be a consc

according to the rebel organizations in Cuba.

105-95461-115 p. B,4

(11)V

On 8/3/62, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

we ever dase never the a been gut on got

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

tor them to advance politically and financially. Hernandez classifie

Ray as probably the most ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

of the exiled

leaders.?')

105-113456-1 p. 7

(34)V

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-116815), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerly

a member of the anti-Castro

CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

probably N1 776-5, 8/10/62)(AF21)

105-116815-1 p. 4

(14)

A CIA report dated 8/22/62 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

MRP leader, was seeking a combined command of all five resistance

groups in Cuba and a pooling of funds

strength to the resistance movement. om the cRe to give greater

On 8/27/62, Fred W. Stewart, President, International

Harvester Company,

San Juan, advised that Jose Míguel Alonso Mendez

(105-111831) was in San Juan working in the anti-Castro movement ol

Mano1o Ray.

105-111831-8 p. 3

(25)V

SI 105-111831-5

(25) V

-36-

„HH 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 42

SECRETI

---

## Page 43

SECRET

595. 2, 7-1

Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Flagler st.,

or Miami, which address had been the haars. of the

Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionaria Cubano (Cuban Revolutionary

over the above haqrs.

uerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, anc

included members from five different anti-Castro groups,

105-108646-15

( 12) V

OTHER 4

On 10/11/62, PSI

(protect identity)

advised that he had known Gonzaro Dean Suarez (105-114953) personally

for a number of years, both in Cuba and since his arrival in Puerto

Rico. He,

according to source, favored Fidel Castro at one time but

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a follower of Manolo Ray, a

Cuban exile residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-114953-2 p. 2

(27)U

(4)

On 10/16/62, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-112098). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization in

any way, he would have immediately severed his relationship. i

105-112098-68 p. 2

(12625)V

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

105-114953-5 p. 1

(27)

-37-

, HW 15937

DocId: 32307127

SECRET

Page 43

---

## Page 44

SECRET

A CIA report dated 1/23/63 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partido Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party) had been

approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

to obtain permission from the PRD to

representation in the Dominican Republic. (ol U)

establish JURE

109-12-211\1705

(16436)1

By letter dated 2/15/63 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the Cuban

and Latin American situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned several things he could not under-

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

anti-communist? - I can mention others' names as Manuel Ray, Just

verity by god mental, condition.

He also set out references who could

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Miami but was dropped when his army record, which showed a discharge

It was further noted that Hoadley

should ce contacted but that he should not be utilized as a source...

134-9231-8

( 19) V

A CIA report dated 2/27/63 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

(105-63791), who arrived' in Miami from Cuba on 1/18/63 aboard the Red

Cross flight, named Manuel Ray Rivero,current head of JURe and a very

active leader of the revolution against Castro,

greater possibilities for overthrowing the Castro regime.^

CIA INFO REMAINS CLASSIFIED

AS IS 1, 4 PER THEIR 17/3190 LTR.

105-63791-25

SPUBJAGEL (211326)27141

(3,33)V

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3/9/63 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with Governor Luis

situation, the Dominican

situation,

and hoped to receive

Ray and that this was an opportune time to make the trip to Puerto Rico.

105-85440-10

(4)V

-40-

*SCRET

|4W 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 44

---

## Page 45

•SECRET

On 5/31/63, PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) stated

that there had been

a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

the military leader of the Second National Front of Escambray

some kind of

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6/4/63 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6/4/63, no

agreement had been made.

Gutierrez had no

personally spoken with

the weekend of 6/1/63 but Ray would return to Ny on the weekend of

/8/63 and he, Gutierrez, might meet with him then.au

105-112098-297 p.

3,4

(12426)V

Rafael Valdes, PSI under development (protect identity)

advised that on 6/14/63 he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha 66 (105-112098) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Manolo"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Ray and stated that Ray wanted only to get all anti-Castro organization:

inder the control of JURE. (ClU

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-112098-315 p. 1a,3,4

(12.26)

On 6/14/63, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

advised that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

orancer in cuba and was currently head of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133).

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against Cuba. He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray aná Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. u

97-4133-63 p. -2

(2) V

-44-

SECRET!

H₩ 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 45

---

## Page 46

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

• in Rio

Poo do Antones prora tentatey.

purpose.

1/4/61)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2713 p. 11,12

(16)v

leadership. (NI 639-S, January, 1961) (J(21)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in sabotage

and underground activities.

(Hugo

Gonzalez Lajonchere,

working with FRD

underground, 1/6/61)

И)

Third in series of articles entitled,

"Countdown for Castro," by Joseph Martin

and Phil Santora discussed anti-Castro

novements and dedicated cold-blooded

Sub A

(18)v

Article set out

of Ray, his desire to Padephin l shouth

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

Ray was head of MRP. (Investigator

fitchell Solomon, INs

Kitche11 Solomon, INSt Philadelphia,

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 1/23/61) (6S(W) FAn INS (5TER24S16) /6/83

Majority of most important front groups

such as MRP headed by Ray led either by

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

known communist,

openly declared that only thing wrong

"NY Daily News"

1/10/61

Document enclosed

2693 enc1. p. 3

( 16)v

748

(continued on next page).

1w 45937 DocId:32307127

Page 46

-46-

SECRET

---

## Page 47

SECHL:

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was

a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in Cuba but while Ray was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

Executive Committee member•

(Armando

Lora, Miami, Fla. 3/14/61):

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

currently MRP leader; set forth his

policies for the next Cuban Government.

(Interview of Manuel Ray Rivero, 3/28/61)

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

expectea; Miro Cardona, Provisional

President of Cuba, visited anti-Castro

camp in Guatemala

CIA officials;

Ray ordered underground,

, in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion force

which might land in Cuba.

received it bama on am Ernes 01617s CU

Betancourt, MRP member, who reportedly

received information from Ray) (P)J

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

in, almost nightly telephonic contact

with Ray prior to April

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161-

S )

A11 Cuban exiles for unity

against

including

Ramiro Loys, confidential source

(proteet identity ate not given))

Since failure of invasion on 4/17/61,

Ray planned to leave FRD as MRP blamed

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.

member

of MRP Executive

Board, 5/31/61)

1,:!

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

Jniversity on 5/3/61 recommending

continuance of revolution against Castr

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass.,

Cuban Consulate)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2773

(28)v

2960

(28) v

, 881

17V

2847

-48-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 47

---

## Page 48

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 4/17/61

there was much discontent among pilots

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by US State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Ray must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated in

recent Cuban invasion, 5/5/61) in

Informant in close contact with Ray.

Prior to 4/17/61 Cuban invasion, Ra!

against bloodshed and violence but

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro. Ray had practically given

up on US assistance and would

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in

Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government. Supposed to meet

in Florida during week of 7/9/61

with other Cuban

PSI, 7/10/61) «NU'

eaders. (NY 3248-

Meeting at home of Dr. Guillermo

Alonso Pujol, former Vice President

of Cuba, during weekend of 7/15/61

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. CY 2865-5i() (U)

Ray denounced FRI and planned

further association with it.

(MM 639-S, 5/25/61)

Claimed US

Government forced his ouste

is head of MRP; resigned from MRP

(Miami newspapers (unidentified), mid

July, 1961)

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

Ratio replacement from toa and tlaimed

that organizations in Miami and Cuba

should mutually decide on replacement

rather than the Board naming

individual. (MM 639-S, 7/18

another (u

SECRET

2854

(17)

.894

910 Do 1,

36)V

(continued on next page)

45937 DocId:32307127 Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

(continued) • (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

'PAGE NUMBER

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP.

MRP considered largest

most significant 295%65.

in underground in Cuba.

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach, Fla.,

7/28/61) 1/1

Resigned from MRP.

Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP torn by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by MRP and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organization

as previously.

(Numerous informants

identified

(Date of mail 10/3/61)

il!!

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission.

MRP lost many members due to "socialistic'

policy of Ray. (PSI Juan Fernando

Aguilar Leon and/or PSI (UD)

(protect identities)

(Date of mail 11/24/61)/

Former head of MRP in Miami,

in Puerto Rico. (No source, date of mail

current a11

1/9/62) ..:

Ray was associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who stated he backed

Castro because of a need for increased

social benefits for Cuban workers.

(Bureau Agent obtained information or

3/15/62)

2940

(17)V

19831

3047 p. 1

17)v

3109

(17)

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

-50-

SECRET

j Nw 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 49

---

## Page 50

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

183 p: 19,21

17)V

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by

of Cuban exiles

as anything from outrigh

which resulted in MRP being thought of

as extremely liberal.

-S, date

not clear, possibly 5/8/62Je( U1)

Ray returned to Puerto Rico on 5/17/62

from Washington, D.C., claiming he was

granted permission to form a military

group in Puerto Rico to attack Cuba, help

consisting of war materials and

financial assistance.

Other Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

3279 pr1,2

would claim he liberated ciect of

БИТІЛЕ 105-99003>

Dr. Ernesto Aragon

y Godoy,

233 E. 69th

St., NYC, who was secretary to Dr.

Jose

Miro Cardona, President of CRC, advised

he and Cardona were informed on 5/26/62

by MRP in Havana that they should have

5 coordinators instead of one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

no at a so, tantro,

individual. Aragon

stated that Nuevo,

Godoy and Valdespino were against Ray.

Aragon saw small chance of Ray bringing

together a following within MRP. CU

on 5/28/62, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray.

Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said, "we!l1 see" but left

impression that Ray would have no say

in CRC. (ON 21)

- 51-

NW 45937 DocId:32307127 Page 50

OTHER 4

(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

## Page 51

'SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

"Miami Herald" (date not given) reported

that Ray would replace Miro Cardona as

head of CRC.

On 5/29/62, United Press

International indicated that according

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

(Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 6/20/62) WI

Ray nad practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center.

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro. Mariano Roca

PSI, protect identity, 5/6/627 6121)

Ray said that all "Popular" political

factions outside Cuba would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed almost entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 7/24/62)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)

leader and consultant for Puerto Rico

Planning Board, would head grount of

1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9/4/62)

9/4/62 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

crisis

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

meeting as they had no confidence in Ray

or his ideas.

protect identity, 9/4/62;

J PSI, protect identity,

914/622,.(81 u)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3275 p. 1,3,1

18)/

3284 encl. p. 1-3.

(28) V

OTHER 4

(continued

on next page)

-52- SECRET

H# 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECRET

(continued)

INFORMATION

(105-117222)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray and

followers would continue efforts to

win exiles by trickery

and false

propaganda. efforts.

supra% (U)

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped

strategy to throw

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between 9/24/62 and 10/6/62, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime except Ray's

forces or any former criminals.

Cardona

no lever to gie mately bo

coming from Governor Luis Nunoz Marm of

Puerto Rico who supported Ray.

statements made by State Department.

Cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray who would never be read-

mitted to the Consejo if up to them.

233 E. 69th

"Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

dated 10/10/62, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

with the MRP, JURE and Alpha

1 66.(g (gU)

CIA INFO IN LAST E

REMAINS GASSIFIEL

PERTHEIR

131/90 LIK=

586 32714

9711, 226)

491

- 53-

N₩ 45937

DocId: 32307127 Page 52

OTHER 4

sub A "The Miami Herald

29)/ 9/19/6

3332 p. 2-

(18) V

Copy of handbook enclosed

3387 enc1. p. 1,6,14,19,

14244447,50,55,98

1812871/361

(continued on next page)

CECRET

---

## Page 53

SECRET

(continued) (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE in Puerto Rico; presided over

JURE meeting in Santurce, Puerto Rico,

in early January; claimed JURE had $3,000

in bank.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3414 p. 26,2

18)v

Ray considered by Cuban exiles in

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department.

COM 639-5,

2/1/637|00 21)

Around early March, 1963, Dr. Jose

Miro Cardona, President of CRC,

complained to former Senator Santiago

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

with Ray and even attempt to support

him.

Miro expressed disgust and

stated it was time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should US support of Ray become

pronounced. (CIA)

Jose Ruiz-Williams Alfer

second in

command of heavy artillery during April

L961 invasion, contacted Ray in Puert

Rico in connection with uniting Cuban

exiles. ("The Miami News," 5/10/63)

353%152

257537,3

-54-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32307127

Page 53

---

## Page 54

SECRET

(continued) . (105-117222)

INFORMATION

Same information as serial 3575 according to

"The Miami Herald," 5/11/63

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

66, 30th of November and Frente Anti-

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE, headed by Ray, approached group for

admission but decision not reached as

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations.

(Joaquin

Godoy, in charge of Foreign Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, May 16 and

19, 1963) 4:

As of 5/27/63, Ray had not signed with

or an a to or incation, "

(MM-639-S)

Ray was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as Cuban

head of MRP; currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

5/28/63)

Edwin Martin,

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Affairs,

Destinations, speech see headed

by Ray,

as only organizations with

clandestine assets.

JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being pushed by Governor

Luis (Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of whom had excellent contacts

in Washingto had eXC ne: 5/30/63) (14)

CIA INFO IN AS + 5 REMAINS

CLASSIFIED PER THEIR 1431/90

LTR.

386) 47/91

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3570

3555P07

1601 p. 6

358557 3

(continued on next page)

-55-

SECRET.

HW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 54

---

## Page 55

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

ray aware of widespread discontent witl

conomic and ideological policy of

Castro government but stated that now

was not the time to take any serious

overt action.

Ray and others claimed

that Fidel Castro realized people's

discontent with Raul Castro

and Ernesto

"Che" Guevara and intended to correct

situation before 1/1/60 but this was

doubted.

or to at or sata, as sound n

orior to tall of batista

Regarding Cuban Cabinet reorganization

of 11/20/59, Luis Baralt, Cuban Consul(S

General in NYC, concerned about Ray

Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom

• he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men. Baralt )CS

stated that Ray lost Cabinet position

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason). (NY 2494-S*)(S)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

to HAV-4 and/or Octavio Valdes, prominent

head of construction firm in Havana.

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank"' set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

Technology, an apparent new post.

Ray

reportedly had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according.to

CIA.

в и)

Same intormation as above according to

CIA INFO IN LAST ZIPS

REMAINS CHASSIFIED PER

THEIR 12

SPEBSA GE

2(5211,326)

„NH 15937hl8bcId:32307127

Page 55

-60-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

237, Р.1

987

(14)V

Sub A-"NY, Times" 11/27/59

(15,35)V

892

(45)

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)V Tribune" 11/27/59

105330 3

989

( 14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-=..

---

## Page 56

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

IN FORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "joung crowd" considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

to a dynamicall!

revolutionary situation.

(NY 2494-S#)(5)

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement. Ray replaced by Osmani

Cienfuegos as cabinet member under Castro.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

1005 p. 1

14)V

050 p: 1-3,

15)0

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US.

Alvarez Barquin, Vice President, Cubana

Airlines, 7/23/60)/ iri

Same information as above.

Same information as above according to

State Department. (U)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effectiveness.

Because of prestige

ne enjoved as revolutionary leader

luring Batista period and as competent

ministrator while in Ministry o

he could serve as rallying

20337

1022 p.

14)V

311 p.

27)6

18 or 2/ Rebe Say Cuban Batisted

Ray in Fla. (State Department) (g) (U)

312

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET

, HH 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 56

---

## Page 57

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Government would permit Ray to be

leader of provisional government of

Cuba.

Ray's father was known communist.

Ray

very friendly with Castro while Ray

Minister of Public Works. Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

Sherlock

Hackley, 760 Park Avenue, wyd, 4/17/6270,

Ray prominent member of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

date of mail 4/28/61)

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

Forum, Room 401, Union Station,

Washington, D.C

tentatively scheduled

for 6/7/61

or 6/14/61; given privilege

of selecting his own audience. (WF (I161-S)/K(U)

attended

above meeting on 6/7/61

during which he held question and answer

session.

Gave impression to those in

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability

Cuban military field. (HF([16TJS) @JU)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin

and

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal of attitude of Ray, recently

denounced leader of MRP who had received

considerable adverse publicity.

Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American, dangerously to the left, and

unclear on certain vital matters.

dropped from MRP \leadership because of

his leaders' dissatisfaction with his

ambiguous statements and fear that

would have "Fidelismo sin ridel" (C/(U)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2091

(15)V

1977 p. 2

3036

(28)

$ 088

28)v

237 Po 2,

154

(continued on next page)

-62-

SECRETI

HW 45937

DocId: 32307127

Page 57

---

## Page 58

SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1901, Governor Munoz refused to

help Ray politically but offered

assistance in obtaining him an

engineering

position.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received attractive offer from

someone in US with Latin American

interests.

Ray appeared to be politically

dead as a Cuban leader.

(Dr. Agustin

Castellanos Gonzalez, under development

as a PSl-Cuba, protect identity, 8/6/61)

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US. He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

(PSI Agustin Castel? (2)

Identity, 1/8/6229

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advisec

CSNY 2822-S on 2/1/62 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin* regretted recommending

Ray for membership as he lacked leadership

qualities. (R)U)

Ray approached by Captain Perez Alamas

(fnu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

and Manuel Toyos, member of the Huber

Matos group in exile, regarding reaction

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govern-

ment release some 2,000 political

prisoners in exchange for a "do-nothing-

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would return 26 of July Movement to power.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

С И,

3551 р. 1

35355022

009

15/3521

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

-63-

SECRET

I HH 15937

DocId: 32307127

Page 58

---

## Page 59

SECRET:

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

564-330-210-1063 (S)

1109

105-86020-788

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

187

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1/9/61

-A "Sunday Visitor" 5/14/61

-A "The Worker" 11/14/61

-A "NY World Telegram" 2/23/62

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

14850

(5)V

(5)V

(5)v

(5)5

(5)

(5)4

(22)V

(5)0

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

-65-

SECRET

1 NH 45937

DocId: 32307127

page,

59

---

