# docid-32317741

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10354-10069

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-350-E-145

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/25/1963

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS :

MULTI SUBJECT: SGI, LST, JRO, CM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32317741

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

3/23/63

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

TO:

IBOM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

CHICAGO DIVISION

AR

"JUKE"

AIRTEL SUKKARY

The following represents a conference on 2/18/63

reported by (CG 6486-C*, between SAMUEL M. GIANCANA and

his representative for the Northwest suburbs, POCCO POTENZO.

By way of explanation, the first part of the

conversation relates to an establishment in Miles, Illinois,

known as

the Lone Tree Inn, wherein bookeaking is being carried

on without the sanction of the GIANCANA grOUp.

An example

of the power exerted by the organization is manifested by

POTENZO's

alternative suggestions to either have the place

raided or utilize muscle on the individuals involved, knowing

that the apparently is a favorite hangout of the Mayor of

this suburb.

The reason for POTENZO's being called in by GIANCANA

is thatfrecently GIANCANA's notel, the infamous Thunderbolt,

In Rosemont, Illinois, Las sold to the village President

DONALD L. STEPHENS (CG 6621-PC), and the name was changed to

The restaurant and lounge concession in the

motel is operated by FRANK SARNO, a close associate of POTENZO,

with POTENZO's brother, THOMAS POTENZO, acting as head bartender.

As a result, POTENZO looked upon the notel as his personal

beadquarters, and was observed acting in a managerial capacity

therein by Bureau Agents.

This fact became known to GIANCANA,

who conducted an investigation on his own and spotted POTENZO

in the motel after having instructed hin to stayaay. In this

3 - Bureau (RA)

- Chicago

RRH: ruh:

(4)

22

Searched

Serialized

indexca_

Flied

DocId: 32317741 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

× 201

conversation he is most insistent that POTENZO not be

seen

in the motel, and the import of his instructions was passed

on by CG 6621-PC, who advised that he had been told by

dent dal GIANCANA recentiT that POrtAZO Is not to be seen at the motel.

This informant states that neither POTENZO nor any of his

associates have been seen there since that edict.

The next topic of conversation concerns itself with

POTENZO's prospective plans for gambling enterprises.

It is

operation was at the intersection of River and Higgins Road,

Rosemont, in the basement of a liquor store located one block

north of

the Village Hall.

Apparently the new location is

located now in the Rosemont Industrial District in a small

plastics factory operated by POTENZO as a front.

Pkysical

observation of this site bears out POTENZO's claim that it is

impossible to get in unless driven there.

It is also next

to impossible to conduct a decent surveillance prior to a

contemplated ganbling raid. This is a temporary location to be

utilized until POTENZO can satisfactorily locate elsewbere.

POTENZO:

That SARNo, he come up to me and says, what

the hell, I can't make no money here with you guys

hanging

around......they went up to the Wagon

Wheel and put their own locks on the place.

............they went through the whole joint,

and when they left, they put their own locks

on......... Saturday night we had to bust

the place

In to get in. In the big room.......

they were over on Milwaukee Avenue, and........

..o.somebody over there gave the a guy.....the

& told them this.

The G told them that our

Joint (R&H) was gonna get raided, but what the

hell.

I was closed already...........(no

comment by GIANCANA)......listen, there's a

joint on Milwaukee Avenue, the Lone Tree Inn.

They're booking in there, and the Major of Niles

1s hanging in there. Lone Tree Inn.

They play

cards in there, too.

SUTCH MEYERS has got the

stop.

Remember that bootlegger, BUTCH MEYERS?

You know the guy, grey haired guy.

You want me to

grab the guy, or

you want the joint to get nailed?

I'll nail the layor and all them guys. You know,

Milwaukee and Harlen? About two blocks north of

there.

They're booking there. (can't decipher

GIANCANA's comment)...

- 2 -

DocId: 32317741

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection At of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

(Ca 92-350

stormant

"GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

GIANCANA:

POTENZO:

You know the heat is there, why are you hangin'

out in there? (shouting)

You know why? That BILL MC GUIRE 1s in there.

He hangs in there every night. Who put hin in

there?

THAT'S NONE OF YOUR BUSINESS.

Well, if you're gonna beef about one guy, beef

about the other guy too. He was there every night.

He had two tables there. (at Caravelle Hotel)

He won't listen to what you tell him, he runs

around there like a chicken without a head.

MOE, I got another spot.................-just ll&e,

last week, when they came into the joint....

all ran down into the basement. This guy was

there, that guy was there.

I DON'T WANT THAT JOINT TO BE A HANGOUT.

MOONEY, THERE WON'I BE A HANGOUT THERE. I don't

give a (obs). There won't be no hangout there.

The G is in and out of there all the time.

That night, just before you came in, these

guys are sitting at tables, talking, yelling

bla, bla, bla.

They hurt you, if the G can bear

them.

Then when you walk in, they shut up,

and everybody is like a lamb. They don't respect

nobody, except you. If, these guys come in, you

can't chase them out.

I don'twant these guys hanging around there.

That one night you was there, I was there to see

FRANK. I ate, and I left. The next night you

came, I was vorking in the kitchen, they had

leak in there. I usually stay by the liquo

store.

All day long, the & spots you guys going in there.

Well, one night, It was FRANK SARNO's birthaay.

There was women there and everything. I told

the Mayor (DONALD E. STEPHENS, CG 6621-PC), I

- 3 =

DocId: 32317741

Paye 4

---

