# docid-32322877

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90006-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-121010-NR

Released under the John

= Kennation Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/01/1963

4

PAULINO SIERRA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

19.1

IT 53074

DocId: 32322877

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CON LINTIAL

MM 105-6243

The Information regarding

the activities of

"DE. SIERRA" Was been disseminated

to the Nand

Siles

relating t0 PAULINO SIERRA aS

th18

Information

un beltered

to possibly relate to PAULINO SIERRA. SIERRA

is currently

under investigation by the Miami Office and U.S. Custons,

Miami,

is investigating the activities of organizations

In which SIERRA has been Involved.

Referenced teletype

and airtel set forth the

original inforation furnished by PSI ALFREDO

BORGES

regarding military plans of the SNre.

U.S. Custome,

has advised that they are investigating.

Miami has

alerted SNrE sources to promptly sumish any intornation

relating to the military activities and plana of the

group and such information will be mediately furished

to the U.S. Customs, Miami.

PSI BOrGES advised that his position had been jeopardized

Because of open investigation by Custons following their

receipt of information furished by his on 10 17 63,

Custons

has been requested to use utmost caution and discretion

in any investigation conducted by then with regard to

this infornation. CIA, Miani, has advised that It has

no operational interest in the sctivities of the SNEE

Chicago, Milwaukee and Detroit are requested

to contact appropriate sources for any information

may have or can develop regarding efforts of SNit

they

representatives to purchase arns or uilitary equipment

In their respective areas.

DIECO MEDINA and ARNALDO

vERNDey should not be intervieved in order to protect

84-S.

In the event

that Chicago Interviews

CARDOSO,

care, should be

exercised in order that she

SOURCE

of the information cannot be identified as coming

Fron Miami .

uses

REVIEWED BY FEI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/19/97

A RELEASE IN FULL p.2

O RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

CiA INFo BLACKER

Emanais

FIED FER THEIR

1431190 602

9803rddnge/

811, 326 12/42

CONF

SECRET

74 530741

DocId: 32322877

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SERPEN

MM 105-6243

COME ENTAS

15H042

MAL IMM 847-5.1404

MOM T-2 18 PSI ALFREDO BORGES. (EUI

The enclosed LHM has been classified "confidential"

as 1t contains information from sources of continuing value,

the mauthorized disclosure of wich could adversely effect

AReT

NW 53074 DocId: 32322877 Page 3

---

