# docid-32309286

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10073

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-31889-152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

WALTERS, VERNON G.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/30/1963

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS:

DEB, ASSOC, BKG, B/F INT, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, EMP,

REL, INTV, HORIST, CHARLES A., TOIL, CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32309286

30

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

'DATE63 (P1-4492017

FEDERAL

- BUREAU OF INVL STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DETROIT

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DETROIT

TITLE OF CASE

JAMES RIDDLE OFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka;

ET AL

DATE

• 10/30/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD.

10/8-28/63

REPORT MADE BY

VERNON G. WALTERS

(A)

CHARACTER OF CASE

53

Gra, 9

FRA; ITSP; ME; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION)

TYPED BY

SKF

REFERENCE:

Report of SA(A) VERNON G. WALTERS, Detroit, 10/15/63•=

Detroit airtel to Bureau

10/28/63.

-P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEADS

DETROIT DIVISION

AT DETROIT, MICHIGAN: Upon return of Department

Attorney

WILLIAM FRENCH to Detroit, will discuss this matter

with him to determine what further

investigation or other

action is contemplated.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Department Attorney FRENCH has confidentially advised

that the source of the information set out in the first

paragraph of the details of this report is HERBERT L. GROSBERG,

Detroit accountant, who is believed to have received part of

the information from RICHARD CROWTHER, a Teamsters Business Agent

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

29-

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

31889-152

REC- 53:

Bureau (29-31,889)

1 - Dept. Attorney WILLIAM FRENCH

2 - Detroit (29-1432)

5

No X 1962

EX-103

LE

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOTA /

AGENCY..

1116

Criminal Division

verones

REQUEST RECD./

DATE ANO: 1/4/63 Atten

* HOW FWD.

0-60

Walter J.

Sheridan

Room 2509

MACHIAN

YSA0/T

mained

alin Keek COVANENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

Destroyeel 3-3-25 87K/Reu

DocId: 32309286 Page 2

928-100113

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 29-1432

in Detroit. FRENCH advised that GROSBERG apparently had no

first-hand knowledge of the matter and could not provide more

specific information; and it was believed that CROWTHERS

information was hearsay.

on 10/21/63, DE 643-C, who is Iamillar with loca

pankruptcy matters, advised that CHARLES A. HORIST, former

president of Redford Iron Works, Inc. (RIW), had been

discharged in bankruptcy in U.S. District Court, Detroit; and

among the debts so discharged

was a $240,000.00

guaranty by

HORIST to Public Bank in regard to indebtedness of RIW.

Informant was advised by HORIST that he had lost his stock

in RIW through a "fast shuffle" involving HARRY LEVINE; IRWIN

KASOFF, an attorney characterized as LEVINE's "boy"; and

JOSEPH

VERHELLE, former president of public Bank.

VERHELLE

allegedly had exerted pressure upon HORIST by calling for

payment of loans made by the bank to RIW.

Informant did not

have specific information as to the dealings between the

above-mentioned individuals but believed HORIST might be

willing to discuss the matter.

B*

COVER PAGE

542-10003

DocId: 32309286

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

* DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 29-1432

mich

Department Attorney WILLIAM P. FRENCH, Detroit,

advised that the Department of Justice had received hear-

say information from a confidential source to the effect

that about the time of an FDIC examination of Public Bank (PB)

in 1961 or 1962, a substantial loan from PB to Redford Iron MIC

Works, Inc. (RIW) was in serious difficulty. For the sake

of appearances during the FDIC examination,

JOSEPH E

VERHELLE, President of PB, allegedly caused HARRY LEVINE

of

Ewal Steel Sales and Supply Company (Ewald) to assume

HARRY LEViNE

liability for the above-mentioned loan. It was further

alleged that LEVINE understood he would be relieved of this

Michi

liability after the examination was ended but VERHELLE

failed to do so. MI. FRENCH requested that a preliminary

investigation be made to ascertain whether there was any

basis for the above allegations and

whether there was any

connection indicated wich the matfers under investigation

in this case.

The following information was included in the FDIC

report of examination of PB which began December 26, 1961:

Indebtedness of RIW. to PB at the time of examination

totaled $470,138.47, consisting of direct borrowing

. of

$440,000.00 and overdrafts of $30,138.47. IRWIN J.X KASOFF

HARRY S: LEVINE and CHARLES A HORIST had signed continuing

guaranties for any and

all indebtedness of RIW to PB. HORISI

had been president of RIW prior to the fall of 1961 when

KASOFF reportedly purchased control of RIW and became president.

Borrowing by RIW from PB originated in July, 1960, at $60,000.00

and regularly increased to the total of $440,000.00. RIW

"filed for dissolution" January 11, 1962, but was adjudicated

bankrupt January 15, 1962.

In addition to the above-mentioned

guaranties, PB held

as collateral for its loans to RIW

$68,481.48 in cash; assignment of accounts receivable; 1,375

"shares of capital stock of RIW; an unrecorded chattel mortgage

for $230,000.00 covering inventory; and a real estate mortgage

dated October 6, 1961, for $200,000.00. The FDIC examiner

concluded there was an apparent violation of Section, 74,

-2.

508-10005

DocId: 32309286

Page 4

---

