# docid-32288904

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10200-10180

HQ

97-3602-12TH NR 14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/30/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

AHH, ASSOC, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#: NU 54464 Date:

10-11-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32288904

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Sle

INTER TATES COMMER CA GE

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

Sr: GMB "/29/94

DATE:

April 30, 1962

FROM

WI. SAC, MIAMI (105-60105

SUBJECT

LARRY J.

LA BORDE;

GERALD BATRICK HEMMING;

EDWARD COLLINS;

ANTONIO CUESTA;

IS, r. CUBALION d

5

3

FL 217

TATES

4-1-83

Classie

WN

• Declassif

appeal s: 1158

ReMiamitels 4/25 and 4/26/62.9

(м)

Ong April 24, 1962, MM 639-Sawho has been involved

in Cuban revolutionary activities during the past four years,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised as follows: 4

LARRY J. LA BORDE, an American in Miami who is

sailor by occupation, claimed he contacted MAX (LNU) ,

a CIA agent in Key West, Florida, on April 22, 1962, and

advised him that the ship "SS WILLIAMS," operating out of

Miami, Florida, was running machinery to Cuba.

LA BORDE

requested permission to blow up this ship on its return

to Miami.

According to LA BORDE, MAX gave him permission,

and indicated LA BORDE would receive five thousand dollars

for the job, when completed. XAM)

C

INTER TATES COVERMER A GE

LA BORDE is associated with ANTONIO CUESTA,

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING ANd EDWARD COLLIDE-LING

plan to blow up the ship *&m

NOT RECORDED

198 MAY 17196

Bureau FAMbI RM)

Miami

1NZЛICE

ПРЕБ О 13405 2-174 0-398-3-

RJD: ems

(4)

NEX 1350 4 3T.

реалсс с 82 32261

907

1z. MAY 3 1962

96 33.91

97-3602

Ten

289

MAY:

•10

Y 1962

62 MAY 1&

1962

ASS (DROT

"SI

ACHE

ERSE

FICATION

12-11-8

HH

54464

DocId: 32288904

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM. 105-6010

CUESTA is a Cuban national who has previously

participated in CIA operations against the present govern-

ment of Cuba. HEMMING and COLLINS are American citizens,

mercenaries and revolutionists, who are not members of

any Cuban revolutionary organization, but are in constant

contact with most

Cuban anti-CASTRO organizations in Miami

• S(A)(M)

MM 639-S states that LA BORDE claims to know

the location of a CIA warehouse in Key West, Florida,

where arms are stored, and LA BORDE plans to burglarize

this warehouse later.

Informant advised that on April 21,

1962, LA BORDE, HEMMING and COLLINS went to Key West,

and on their return, claimed to have seen the CIA warehouse

and said it was full of

all types of arms and ammunition,

has only one night watchman, and they think they could

burglarize it without difficulty. However, they plan to

wait until after they blow up the ship.# (S)(M)

The informant advised that on April 24, 1962,

CUESTA visited the Pier 3 area of the Miami Municipal Docks

to familiarize himself with theaarea and devise a plan.

CUESTA has decided to use an aqualung to attach explosives

to the ship.. He claims to be an experienced diver. & CAM)

Informant said that LA BORDE previously worked

on a subchaser owned by ALBERTO FERNANDEZ, which was of

operational interest to CIA,

but has had no action in the

recent past. LA BORDE claimed that MAX might overlook

LA BORDE's burglarization of the CIA warehouse containing

arms, it the destruction of the ship were successful.d(*(M)

On April 24, 1962, informant advised that

LA BORDE and COLLINS on that date visited the Pier 3

area of the Miami Municipal Docks to familiarize them-

selves with the general area. LA BORDE planned to leave

that evening for New Orleans to bring back to Miami a

yacht 75 feet long which he hoped would be donated to*(M)

NH 54464 DooId: 32288904 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-6010

MARUCA agreed, and advised that CIA would notify 1og

law enforcement officials

Prior investigation concerning another matter

reflected that the "SS WILLIAMS" is owned by TEOFILO

cufa

BABOUN, a Cuban millionaire residing in Miami, who is anti-

"Communist and anti-FIDEL CASTRO. The ship is

a time charter to. Inter Island Shipping Company, of which

VICENTE RODRIGUEZ is President and Manager. The ship left

Miami on April 19, 1962 bound for Phillisborough, St. Martin,

Netherlands West Indies, and

expected back in Miami on

approximately May 2, 1962

The ship was described as being 750 tons, 167 feet

long, and Panamanian registry. &$ (eM)

On April 25, 1962, MARUCA said that LA BORDE was

owed the Blue Lagoon nine

sign a complaint and obtain a warrant for LA BORDE's arrest.

MARUCA also advised that CIA were advising the local police

authorities and the Coast Guard Of LA BORDE's plans (S4)

On April 30, 1962, MM 639-S advised that CUESTA

has three aqualungs, and planned to teach HEMMING and

COLLINS how to use

this underwater diving equipment.

HEMMING, on April 27, 1962, talked to ALBERTO FERNANDEZ,

who said that LA BORDE was in Key West, and HEMMING should

discontinue his association with LA BORDE, because of his

being irresponsible.

HEMMING said that he, COLLINS and

CUESTA were practicing with the aqualungs in the ocean at

Key Biscayne, Miami, Florida, on April 27, 1962, when

CUESTA said that they were being watched by a CIA agent

whom CUESTA had previously known.

- 4 =

NH 54464 DooId: 32288904 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105÷6010

Informant advised that HEMMING has a friend

who is a ship surveyor, who was able to ascertain that

the "SS WILLIAMS" would be back to Miami, Florida on

about May 11, 1962. #(X)(1)

The informant stated that CUESTA claims that

during the time he was working for CIA, ALBERTO FERNANDEZ

received a certain quantity of money from CIA, to be used

to buy food for the group operating a boat belonging to

FERNANDEZ.

However, FERNANDEZ kept the money. &(*(M)

Inasmuch as this matter concerning the blowing

up of the "SS WILLIAMS" is not within the jurisdiction

of the Bureau, and LA BORDE and CUESTA have previously

been of operational interest to CIA, and there is apparently

ill feeling between LA BORDE, CUESIA and CIA, the Miami

office anticipates no accave investigation in this matter (aM)

The Miami Office will follow this matter through

contact with MM 639-S?

and liaison with CIA, and keep the

Bureau advised.

M.).

=.5%-

74 54464

DocId: 32288904

Page 5

---

