# docid-32212574

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

---

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: DOS

RECORD NUMBER

: 17:9-40007-10222

RECORDS SERIES :

LOT 85D275: RECORDS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54653 Date:

40-23-2017

-----

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE

..

DATE

PAGES

: 01/23/64

2425

SUBJECTS

GRANT, DONALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

FOLDER: OSWALD CASE-- FBI REPORTS; BOX F11

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

HW 54653 DocId: 32212574 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO:

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH

TRANSMITTAL OF DOCUMENT FOR RETENTION OR DESTRUCTION

DATE

SCA

FEB 7 1964

The attached information is for confidential utilization. It is NOT to be disseminated outside the Department.:

The communication may be RETAINED or DESTROYED; it should NOT be retured to INR. If DESTROYED, se-

curity procedures as outlined in Section 1985, Vol. 5, Foreign Affairs Manual must be followed.

CLASSIFICATION OF ENCLOSED DOCUMENT

SECRET

IF SECRET, THE DOCUMENT:

consists of

23 pages; Number_ I of 2_ copies, Series IN-C

INR/DDC: R. M. ULBRICH

This Transmittal Form Becomes UNCLASSIFIED Upon Removal of Any Classified Enclosures.

FORM

4 - 63 DS-15140

GP 0 943581

HH 54653

DocId: 32212574

Page 2

---

## Page 3

30-204 (307. 2-3-50)

SEORET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ALL INFOSMATION COCTARES

MERLIM

NGLASSIFIED

EXOSPY

A CRE SHOWS

OTHERWISE

Copy to:

12/16/93

Classilico:

14156/gch

Declassify On:

Report of:

Date:.

Field Office File No.:

Title:

WILLIAM J. GROVES.

1/23/64

105-51893

DONALD SMITH GRANT

Office:

New York, New Yorke

Bureau file No.:

105-111647

this document consists of p,- pages.

Series/NO#C

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY -

Copy

ROLAND

Synopsis:

Subject employed as UN Correspondent for the

"St. Loule Post-Dispatch"

; resides

al. 7 8

.88th Street, NY, NY.

subject reponted in contact with members of

She Soviet,

YugosLaV, Polish, and Cuban Missions

to

traveled to Cuba in 1902-and 1903.*

the UN.

Subject

DETAILS

RESIDENCE AND EMPLOYMENI

OLASSIFIED BY 566850/mde

DECLASSIFY O:!: 25X CY)

JFKI 411/98

The 1963 Directory of the Correspondents Associa-

cion united Nations (UN), New Yorle,

New York,

liste DONALD

GRANT,

"St. Louis Post-Dispatch" Office, Room 459, UN,

New York,

New York, home address

7, Bast 88th

Street, New YOrk,

New York:

On August 13, 1963,

Mos: HELENE BARCORI, United

States (US) Mission to the UN,

New Toric, New Yorl, advised

Special Agent (SA) RAYMOND MC ANDREW that DONALD SMITH GRANT,

Who was bon on June 6, 1911,

Minnesota,

aardliod as a dorres ache De for Mom March a3, 1951,

DEPANTMENT DE STATE

2/1/64

CEB S

1964

OFFICE OF SECURITY

MITELUIGENCE PROGESSING SECT.

SEMET

X69516, 911,5117

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agence; it and

its contenta are not to be rubricted outside dost drency:

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

NY 105-61893

to July 23, 1961, as requested by the Editor-in-Chief of

the

"St.

Louis Post-Dispatch"

His address at that cime was

Given as 108 rosi 38ch Street, New York, New York.

He was

again accredited from February l2, 1962,

to February 12, 1963,

and from July S,

1963,

is: rocorded

to July 8,

1964.

His permanent address

as 7 East 88ch Street, New Yorls, New York.

The records of the Commercial Crediü Rating

ABency i

SCa.

Louis, Missouri, as reviered by Investigative Clerk

(IC) R. DOUGLAS KING on January 23, 1959, reflecied that

DONAED GRANT had been employed by the

"St. Louis post-pispatch"

sinco september,, 1949.

le previously resided at 4050 11üh

sunsets los Moliso, Iowa, ma le and woon wrenteus ferrared.

by Contes Publications in Des Molnes, Iowa,

Magazine in Washington, D.C.

These records also reflect

that he had been a war correspondent los two years.

IL.

PASSPORI: RECORDS

Miss BERTY J. VISLEY, Adjudication Branch, Passport

office, United Stated Department of State. Washington, D.C.,

advised on May 15, 1962,

that Cuban travel had been validated

fOr. DONALD SMIDE GRANT during May: 1962.

On May 28, 1962, Mrs.

VENDE CRENSHAN,

Passport

office, Untied States Department of State, made

available the

file on DONALD SMITH GRANT, which chowed that Passport Number

1248216 was issued to him on November? 14, 1958.

The application

for this passpors showed that GRANT

was born June 6, 1911, at

Minneapolis:

Minnesota, that his

permanent residence

• was 430

Bielman Road, St. Louie, Missouri, and his mailing address,

King Iravel Organization, 570 Bergen Avenue, New York City:

was indicated that he intended to depart January 1, 1959;

a three montha trip to Union of Souch Africa and Belgian Congo

in connection with journalish.

His occupation was show as,

is parents were

WILLIS W. GRANT, bom in Iowa,

deceased,

and MAUD SMITH GRANT, born in Minnesota, residing at Fullerton,

California.

Applicant showed his mire

AS JUANITA PORTER GRANT,

who was born in Iowa on April 12, 1999.

On July 24, 1903, Miss BETTY: VICLEY, Adjudication

Branch, Passport Office, United Scates Department of State (USDS),

advised SA DOUGLAS M. BROWN that according to her records

-2-

SECREV

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 105-61893

Passport Number D0627909 was validated for one round trip to

Cube not to extend beyond August: 34, 1953.

this passport was

issued to DONALD SMITH GRANI, who wes bom in Minneapolis,

1911.

Validation

was roquested by letter

from the

Mey 17, 1963, stating that

ORANT had been givon an assignment do travel to Cuba to make

a study of economic conditions

under FIDEL CASTRO and to assess

the degree of communization of the country. and its effect on

the average Cuban.

III. CONTACT WITH MEMBERS OF

THE SOVIET MISSION TO THE UN (SMUN)

on August 7,

1958, NY T=1-

*advised that Mi.

DONALD GRANT, Who indicated

that he was from out of tow and

was currencly staying at a New Yorkc hotel, cr 7-7000, Ext. 2514,

concacted the soviet Delegation to the UN

with regard to

an indefinite Luncheon appointment at the UN that he had

with VLADIVIR BARKOVSKY.

GRANT requested that BARKOVSKY

get in touch with hin concerning 1t.

On September Ii, 1958, TRED SANDY,

Accounting

Department, Barbizon - Plaza Hotel, 105 Central Park South,

Asy Yonk, New York, advised SA JOSEPI F. SPRINGER that-

DONALD GRANT,

Room 2415, registered at the hotel on July 31,

1958, and departed on August 6, 1958. GRAND was employed

as

a reporton on the

"St. Louis Post-Diopatch" and resided

at 430 Dielman Road, St. Louls,

Missouri.

The booklet entitled "Members of Permanent

Miesions to the UN Encitled to Diplonatic

and pubiished by the United States Mission to

UN (USMUN) reflected chat VADIMIR BORISOVICH

the

BARKSOVSKY was employed as counselor of the soviet

Delegation to the UN.

In early 1962,

NY: T-2 identified

VLADIMIR BARKOVSKY

as a member of

• the Soviet KOB

(Committee for

State Security):

On December I, 1958,

NY I'-3 advised that VLADINER

BORISOVICH BARKOVSKY recently: hed a party at his Apartment:

- 3-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

NY 105-61893

13-I, Schwab House, 11 Riverside Drive,

New York, New Fork,

and among those in attendance was DONAZD GRANS, Foreign

Editor of the

"St. Louis Post-Dispatch"

who was covering

the 13th session of the uN cenemi Assembly:

On December 9, 1958, NY I- advised thai DONALD

GRANT attended a party

at the home of

BORIS N. IVANOV, Cambridge House, 333 West

York,

New York.

•on december 6, 1969,g8th Street, New

This source described GRANT as a correspondent

for the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch" and said his wife was also

as this party.

A UN püblication entitled,, "Employees Of Permanent

Missions

and Membero of Permanent Missions to

the UN"

December, 1958, contains the name of

BORIS N. IVANOV as Second Secsetary to the SMUN.

In early 1962, NY I-2 identified BORIS N. IVANOV

as a former chief for a short period of time

in the KGB residency in New York.

On May 22, 1960, NY I-1 advised that DONALD GRANT

of the "St. Louis Post Dispatch"

unsuccessfully attempted to

ConcaCE MIKHAIL POLONIK, Second Secretary for the SMUN.

On January 7, 1963, NY I-5 advised that DONALD CRANI

Firat Secretary and Press Officer

sHuN, and asked POLONIK if he lenew anything about "chis idea

POLONIK told him that today

"he" presented "his"

credentials, and they had informal talks with newspapermen

at the UN.

• POLONIK stated he did not have a chance to discuss

"this" and would not be able to discuss it this week.

It was

the informant e opinion that POLONIK was probably referring to

the new Soviet Ambassador..

GRAND stated that he was in a hurry

for this, and ic it does not go through, he had another form of

1t in mind which would not involve the Soviet Union.

In early 1962, NY I-2 identified MIKHAIL POLONIK

as a member of the KGB.

IV.

CONTACT WITH YUGOSLAV MISSION TO

THE UN (YMUN)

On October 22, 1962, NY I-6 advised that viss

is: 11.

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId:32212574

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

NY 105-61893

ANDJELIA TODOROVIC,. Secretary to the Permanent Representative,:

was in concact wich DONALD GRANT, who accepted

an. in

vitation to a Yugoslav reception for that evening.

V.

CONTACT WITH NEMBERS OF THE POLISH

MISSION TO JEE UN (PMUN)

On November 12, 1963,

NY I-T advised that EUGENIA

SZIETNER Of the PMUN contacted WIESLAW CORNICKI, Correspondent,

Polish Press News Agency, New York, New York, and asled him

1i he could arrange a luncheon on that day for GRANT.

In-

formant stated that GORNICKI said that he could, and she advised

him

to make it for "che Minister" and GRANT at the UN at 1:15 p.m.

CORNICKI informed SZTEINER that he was very grateful for this.

Informant stated that SZIETNER told GORNICKI

that she did not

chink she could make.

an appointment with Minister WINIEWICZ

for the derman journalist as there

was not much time buc to

make the appointment with GRANT.

The USDS advised on August 23, 1963, that

JOSEPH WINTEVICZ, Under-Secretary,

Polish Foreign

Ministry, applied for a visa to visit the United

States

for six months as a Polish delegate to the

UN General Assembly:

Imnigration and Naturalization Service, New Yorit,

Now

York,

advised on Novenber 21, 1953, that

JOSEPH WINIEWICE arrived at New York,.

New York,

on september 15, 1963, and departed on November

16, 1963, {01 London.

VI

ASSOCIARION WITHE MARMMLAGAN

In May, 1961, NY 1-8,

another Goverment agency,

which conducts intelligence or personnel investigations,

ad-

vised that Mes. MARY HAGAN WaS

an Anerican who was formerly

married to an Arab and who until recently worked for a

semi-official Arab News Agency with headquarters in Egypt.

Informant stated that she was nominally accredited as

correspondent for an obecure Indian periodical at the

UN.

Recently, according to thie source,

HAGAN had been seen in

the frequent company of DONALD GRANT Of the

Dispatch"

"Informant stated that GRAND's questions (5)

"St. Louls Post™

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

NY. 105-61893

nt United states press Conferences had been obviousiy tinged

with a rather biased, anti-washington ouciöok.

However,

according to this source, he seemed to avoid letting this

sentimont creep into his

copy. (3)

MY I-S further advlood thet HAGAN appeared to be

oh intimate

terms with most Arab: and Airicen delegates,

She is often asked

Ghanaians, Malians, Indonesians,

and Ceylonese to participate

in private briefings for

Correspondents

UN Correspondents Corps.:

According to this source, HAGAN

13 neported to be seen often in the company of soviet Bloc

Newsmen at the UN, apparently exchanging information avail-

able to her and not easily accessible to uhem.

• She wac

featured in the world news when she was jailed in Israel

several years ago on alleged apy changes on behalf of an

Arab power. (5)

The 1963 Directory: Correspondents Association,

New Yorks

lists MARY FRANCES

HAGAN,

UN, New "Lunk" vagutine, India, and McGraw-

Hill World News.

The

A0211 12,

1195%, isque of "The New York

Daily Narror"

on page 8,

contains an article

entitled

"Spy to be Frec"

This articie states

that MARY

FRANCES HAGAN, of Huntington, West

virginia,

would be free Friday: from an Israeli

jail where she had been serving a one-year

term for spying for Syria.

The article stated

she had picaded innocent at a three-day secret

trial lact October in Jerusalem.

on October 31g

1962, Ny i-g advised that MARy

HAGAN,

who described herself as

the niece of DONALD GRANT,

contacted the Cuban Mission to the UN (CNUN) and informed

that she and GRAND were very good friends of Ambassador and

MES. MARIO GARCIA INCHAUSIEGUI, and since che GARCIAS would

be leaving soon for Cuba, she and

ORANT would like to leave

- 5-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

NY 105-61893

sife for the GARCIAS.

at the Cuban Mission Office.

She was told she could leave the giit

on September 24, 1963, NY: 1-10 advised that DONAD

CRANI is generally accompanied by MARY FRANCISS HAGAN in the

vicinity of the North Delegates

Lounge at the UN building.

Source stated that he was fairly certain that HAGAN and CRANC

were working together on something, and they frequently do not

leave the UN until quite late in the evening and they generally

leave together

On November 20, 1963 NY 1-10 further advised that

GRANT continues to be closely asscolated with MARY FRANCES

ose1y

HAGAN, and they work together very late several nights each

VII.: CONTACT WITH MUN AND TRAVEL IN CUBA

on

May 14, 1952, NY D-Il advised that on that date

the CMUN advised the Cuban Winistry of Foreign Relations,

Havana, Cuba, that a visit had been received from DONALD

SMITH GRANT who desired to visi Cuba for the purpose of

writing articles for the

"St. Louis Post-Dispatch"

on July 14, 1902, NY I-12 advised that on July T,

1952, the CMUN made

available to Dis RAUL ROA GARCIA, Minister

of Foreign Relations, Havana, Cube,

certain information

concerning the newspaper correspondent DONALD GRANT Who 15

a correspondent for the newspaper "Post-Dispaüch"

• Sio Louis,

Missouri. The CMUN advised that GRANT at that vime

SECRET

74 54653

DooId: 32212574

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

NY 105-61893

was in Cuba,

and that he has written a

number of articles

which were published in the

"Post Dispatch"

• 8t. Louls,

Missouri, during the latter part of June, 1962.

These articles were

entitled,

"Shortage of Technical Wonkers

-Scill. Serious;

Cuben Botüleneck"

; and "Pride of Position Instilled In Cubans

by CASIRO Poses Problem for Unlted States Diplomagy:

These

articles point out that young intellectualo remain leaders of

the Cuban Revolution, and that the individual who formerly was

occuples a position of importance and pride, either in

civilian life op in the Militia, and that these individuals are

not villing to give up their positions.

On October 28, 1902, NX T-13 advised that DONALD

GRAND and MARY IACAN, wino mey have been a secretary, met with

Cuban Ambassador MARIO GARCIA INCHAUSDECOI in the CMUN.

According to his source GRAND informed tho Ambassador that

no had boon do one USMUN and bad Cal.od with OLAYTON DRUTCHDY,

According to GRAND, BRITCHOY seid that the present United

States position was the end of the whole United States

Program for Cube.

GRANT said that refugees remain as the only

problem to renewing relations with Cuba,, and

they can be

assimilated ao were the Hungarian refugees.. GRAND stated

thet according to FRITCHRY the United States (US) accepts

Communism in Cuba but not the military:

According to this

source, PRITCHEY feit that trade relations would be resumed

GRANT informed GARCIA that he told. PRINCHBY hat 'che

US had lost byagting unilaterally; and TRITCHEY replied

that. he. knew the US argument was weak, but that it would

argue that the us acted not outaide the scope of the UN.

Inasmuch as it had presented the problen previously to the

FRITCHEY indicated that the US was attempting to get

the problem lack to the UN.

' CRANI chen mentioned his con-

versation vich a Cuban official by the none of RODRIGUEZ (phonetic),

in which it was mentioned that if the US accepto Socialism in

then cube only wants peace.

"crand' rolated that it is

that KENNEDY and the

Us guarantee no aggression by

Me inquired of GARCIN If CASINO WOuld guarantee

the pome.

GARCIA replied thai he is not certain if the US would

keep

these guarantees and thai the worst aggression against

Cuba has been the US econonic aggreesion.

According to the

source, they discussed the presence of Us troops in Cuba and

GRANT and his secretary (MARY HAGAN) both said that Guantanamo

is not militarily important to the us, but oniy politically.

GRANT reminded CARCIA that STEVENSON has been fighting against

invasion.

- 8-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

NY 105-61893

On November 15, 1952, NY I-9:

advised

that

DONALD GRANT of the

"St. Louls Post-Dispatch"

contacted the

MUN in an offort to make an appointment to see Cuban Am-

passador CARLOSTLECHUGA.

GRAND said it concerned

& message

directly from LeCHUGA

rather. than from secondary sources.

Hs

indicated that he would like to get from LECHUGA the correct

version inasmuch as the story was being leaked by the people

who are not particularly friendly to Cuba.

On July 2, 1963, NY I-ll advised that the

Czechosloval Embassy, Washington, D.C.,.

advised the Cuban

Ministry of Foreign Relations that a visa had been requested

by DANTEL GRANT, who was born June 6, 1911, in Minneapolis and

hewsMaperman with the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch"

•70

88th Screet, New York Caty, Passport Number D0027909,

-TE

stated that he had been invited to visit Cuba by GIRALDO MAZOLA

COLBAZO of the Cuban Inscitute for Friendship wich 'Other

Peoples iniorder to attend the July 26 commemorátive

celebration.

on July 9, 1963, NY F-it advised that a Mir. GRANT

informed the CHUN that he was accepting the Cuban Government

invication to attend the July 26ch celebracion in Havans.

He indicated that Eastern Airlines indicated

that they could noü make a reservation for. him on Cubana

Airlines out of Mexico City to Cuba:

Fie nad, however,

indicated that he had checked with Nexican Airlines and

since they were able to make a resenvation fron Mexico City

to Havana via Cubana Airlines, he would probably tale the

Mexican Airlines.

on July 15, 1963,

Mr 1-15. edvised that Cuban

Ambassador CARLOS LECHUCA notified

the Cuban Enbassy in

Mexico City that an American newepaperian,

DONALD GRANT,

was dus to arrive in Mexico Cloy Sunday o: Monday: July

21, 1963;

or July 22, 1963s enroute

to Havana and that facilities

should be extended to him to obtain his

• Visa for Havana in

Mexico City.

LECHUGA explained that

GRANT was one or

of newspapermen who had been invited to attend the July

26

celebration in Havana.

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECRET

NY 105-61893

On July 17,. 1963, NY I-I4 advised that Cuban

Ambassador to the UN CARLOS LSCHUGA informed MARY HAGAN that her

visa was "here" and wished her a good uzip.

He told her she

could pick up her visa au the Cuban: Embassy in Mexico. Accora-

2ng to the sources HAGAN toid LECHUCA that the State

Departmen't

1s still holding

Up DONALD GRANT'S

treasury restriction; that

confidentially the

UN Mission here' has suggested that GRANT

and all those in the same position make a strong protest

chrough editorials, and so forth, and to try this "license

thing"; thai is taking out a license as do importors and ex-

porters enabling them to take currency into Cuba.

HAGAN

comnented that they thought they could get Canadian travelers

checks but now understand that this is againat the law and

they could be prosecuted upon their return. HAGAN continued

that should "they" want us to do it, we will go to the

, dog indo

equivolent of the Federal Reserve Office on Wall Street and fill

out a llconse which would place us on the same basis as,a

sugar trader of any businessman which would permit. us to take

currency to Cuba.

LECHUGA said

that CRANI had informed him about the

currency difficulties and that GRANd abated that he was going

to call the White House.

HAGAN said that is they decide upon maling

; the

big protest and accept the licensing, then they wiil ali go

ahead.

she said that she would keep LLCHUCA informed of

developments.

On Jaly 19, 1963, NY T-14

advised that DONALD

GRANT of the "St. Louis Post-Dispatch" informed Ambassador

CARLOS LECHUGA that he had two luemo. that he wished to discuss

Tith LECHUGA.

The first concerned information he had

received from o very authonitative source, whom he did not

wish to idontify at thai time, that the Prisoners Medicine Ex-

LECHUGA stated that he did

going

to write a story concerning t

like."

"which I think you will

Secondly,

GRANT informed LECHUCA that he, MARY

HAGAN, and CHARLES HOWARD planned on leaving Sunday,

July 21, 1963,

via Eastern Airlines for Mexico City; but as of the present

time, they were not assured of a reservation on Cubana Airlines

for the flight from Mexico City Lo Havana.

CRANT comented

that he had received a promise from Eastern Airlines on an

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

NY 105-61893

unorficial basis that they wouid see what they could do about u

getting him a reservation on Cubana Airlines for Havana.

How-

ever, no promise was made to HAGAN Of HOWARD.

GRANT requested

chat

LacHUcA do him a favor by arranging reservations for hiin-.

Self; HAGAN and HOWARD on Cubana Airlines for Havana.

LECHUGA

infonned him that he would call Mexico City concerning the

reservacions.

NY T-14 advised that on july 19, 1963, the Cuban

•City and requested that reservations be made. for three North

American newspapermen, namely, DONALD GRANI, MARY HAGAN, and

CHARLES MOHARD on Cubana Alrines aight from Mexico City to

Havana, Monday, July 22, 1963.

It was also requested that

Mexico

It was indicated

that the

three newspapermen would stop by the cuban Embassy in

Mexico City on the morning of july 22, 1963, regarding the

visas.

The Cuban Mission advised the Enbassy that the three

nemapapermen were going to Cuba for the purpose of covering

che July 26ch celebration in Havana.

NY I-14 advised on Aügust 5: 1963, hat DONALD

GRANT was in contact with Cuban Ambassador CARLOS LSCHUGA,

and commented to LECHUCA that 'your country. 100ks fine".

but on his trip: this year he found

them very confident and they

impressed him as being very secure people.: GRANT related that

one place.

GRANT stated that. he

would like to have a

personal tall with LECHUGA, to which the latter agreed.

LECHUGA

indicated that he would be busy coday but

suggested that GRANI

contact him tomorrow at which time they

could arrange for

convenient cime.

The 1963 Directory, Correspondents Association UN,

New York, lists. CHARLES P:

• SHOWARD, Afro-Anerican

Newspapers,

Office

Room 306, UN. New York, home

21 West 8oth street, New York, New York.

On October 30, 1953, NY I-16 advised that CHARLES

PRESTON HOWARD, SR.

is 'a

"pro-communist" journalist

who supponts the CASDRo regime and always closely

associates with the Conmunist Bloc at the

UN SECRET

On February 6, 1963, NY I-17 advised that HOWAI

was recentlyin contact with ELIJAH

MUHAMMAD,

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574 Page 13

---

## Page 14

NY 105-61893

SECRET

and

they discussed his

salary for contributing

articles published in

"Muhammad Speaks"

'Muhammad Speaks" is the official publication

of the Nation of Islam (NOI) published bi-monthly

in Chicago.

A characterization of the NOl appears in the

Appendix attached hereto

In July, 1951, NY I-ll duded that HOWARD was

a "concealed Communted"

,. meaningá Communist

Party (CP) memboy ho does not hold himself

out as a Communist and who would deny membership

In the Party. According to this intormant,

HOWARD was puferred to as being sympathetic to

the CP before 1944, and during

; that year, his

name was mentioned as being under communist

discipline.

On August 5,

1963, NY T-15 advised that FRANCISCO

PORDELA Of "Prensa Latina"

contacted Cubon Ambassador LECHUGA

and told him about DONALD GRANT'S articie which would appear

in the finot edition of tomorrows.

"Times"

PORTELA related

that the article is very interesting, that it is & continuation

Of GRANT'S

enticles on Cuba, and the

theme is that Cuba is

confirmed in its resolution to build a socialist revolution

there and that FIDEL CASTRO believes there will be a Comnunist.

regime in Venezuela because

of all the supporters there.

PORTELA went on to relate that the most in-

keresting thing is the subtle changes that have been made

in GRAND's article in these two dirterent nenspapers,

namely the

"St. Louis Post-Dispatch" and the

PORTEDA

pointed out "For example, in one paper i6 says there

is no prob-

lem in Cuba with shoes and with sugar and in the other it says

that there are problems in getcing these items."

PORTELA

comments that these were very slight changes, but some subtle

alterations, and very interestlog.

A characterization of "Prensa Latina" appears

In the Appendix, abrached hereto.

On Augusü 15: 1963. NY 7-14 advised shat DONALD

GRANT Of

"Sü. Louis Post-Dispatch":

was in contact with

112-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

NX 105-61893

Cuban Ambassador CARLOS LECHUCA who informed him that he had

communicated with

che Cuban Consul in Mexico and that the

Consul advised that he will attempt to

solve the

"problem"

According to the source, LECHUCA further stated that the Consul

advisod him that he had made the

"application" however,

signatures have to be obtained "rom auchoritios in the

Ministry

of the Interior and that it vould probably be Monday or

Tuesday. of next week before it could be resolved.

GRANT replied that he had talked to "MARY"

and Hit was simply imperative that she be able to take the

plane tomorrow'

GRANT stated that he had spoken to United

States Ambassador THOMAS MANN in Mexico and also with Assistant

Secretary of State JIM CREENFIELD and both Indicated that they

would trypto expedite the matter.

" GRANT wondered

whether MARY

could noü get on

the plane tomorcow and that any

differonces could be settled in Mexico and that if there was a

u1,000 fine, he, ChANe, would just ae soon pay it himself.

GRANT. commented

that he doubted that MaRy's nervous system

would hold. up if she does not make

the plane tomorrow.

GRANT

explained that the problem, according to Assistant secretary

of State,

GRESNFIELD, was

that Mexico passed a new law while

MARY was in Cuba, and that there is need of time to determine

exceptions to the law.

GRANT requested that LACHUGA contact Havana and

specifically Cubana Alrlines and request that undor any

circumstances they get her on the plane tomorrow.

GRANT stated

that he was, contain MARy would have her visa, however, in

Havana before leaving or "at most. in Mexico City.

phasize his concern for Man, CRANT explained confidentially to

LECHUGA that MARY: had at one time been in prison as a

political prisoner about 6 or 7 years agod

GRANT said that MARY

had ai one time been married. to a Syrian

diplomat and during the

time of the suez crisis had foolish.

arcone to Israel where sho

was jailed as a spy and

was place?,me

prison for about 9

months.

CRANI stated that MARy wets

nope. soy nor has she ever

been.

He stated that the

she spent inprison in Israel

SECRET

14 54653

DocIA: 32212574

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

NY 105-61893

"strong mark"

on her and he

felt certain that if she does

not get out comorrow that she will be ready for the insane

hospital when she doas get back to the United States.

LECHUGA promised GRANI that he would contact

Havana and explain everyching to the covernment and request

Chat they speal to Cubana Airlines to see what could be

done.

LECHUGA added, however, that he could make no promises as to

the ultimate decision.

NY I'-14 advised that on August 16,

; 1963, Cuban

Ambassador CARLOS LECHUGA inquired of his secretary, COCTA

GIRONA 11 the

"Ministry" had answered regarding MARY HAGAN

GIRONA replied that she had received word from the

• "Ministry"

that HAGAN is aware that there ie no plane leaving Cuba for

Mexico until next Monday, August 19, 1903.

GIRONA Statso

that the Ministry wanted to be advisod when HAGAN receives her

VI30.

NY I-14 advised that on Auguat 16, 1953, DONALD

CRANE was in contact with CILTA CIRONA aü the

Cuban

Mission to

the UN and inquired for Ambassador IRCHUGA.

When informed that

LECHUGA was unavailable, GRANT commented that CELIA must be

tired of hearing about the problem of trying to get MARY HACAN

out of Cube: but went on to relate that no had received word

From MARY HACAN'S office here in New. Yoris that they had ro-

ccived a cable from their man, in Mexico City and that the visa

o molate vitor at those te

problem has been solved, that 15 HAGAN now has a Mexicon vIsa,

and is free to sei on the first plane.

GIRONA informed GRANT that she would inform the

Ministry in Havana that HAGAN now has a Mexican vise and will

pe able to leave on the firsi available flight, Monday,

nugust 19, 1963.

NY I-14 advised that subsequont to the above,

CELIA GIRONA informed. Ambassador LECHUCA that DONALD GRANT

had notified chem that MARY HAGAN has a Mexican visa and

thus

will

be able to leave Havana on the first available plane.

SEGRET

NW 54653 DocId: 32212574

Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

NY 105-61893

On september Ic, 1963, NY T-i6 advised that CHARLES

P. HOWARD, Journalist for the Afro-Americ in newspapers to

gether with DONALD CRANI, UN Correspondent for the

"St. Louis

Posi-Dispatch!' and MARY FRANCES HAGAN; UN Correspondent for

"Tink"

magazine of New Delhi, India, and Me, Craw-Hill World

News, left on or about July 21: 1963, aboard an Alr France

flight to. Mexico City.

Airlines flight to Havana, Cuba, arriving there on July 22, 1963.

Source Stated that GRANI returned to the United States in two

weeke after writing a series of newspaper articles.

The

articles written by GRANT also appeared in "The New York

Tines.

These articles were generally favozabie to Cuba, al-

though CRANT admitted that his writings were heavily censored

before. they left Havana.

Source was of the opinion that CRAND

is probably more of an apologiet for the Cubans and Communists.

He reflecus a more "liberal, middle of the road politicai

attiüude."

Source stated that

CRAND iS a man in his 50's,

wearing heavy bifoesi glasses,.

and is a consorvative dresser.

source staied that GRANT Knows bOth WIESLAW GORNICKI and

STANISLAV SOLIYSIAN.

To source is knowledge, no close associa-

tion exists between them.

NY I-16 continued that HOWARD returned

to the

united states about Monday or Tuesday, Sepüenber 9 or 10. When

he returned to the UN. he extended

Slad hand to all of

his

friends.

Source classified him. as. a dangerous individual

because

of his extreme

"left wing and pro-Communist tendencies."

MARY FRANCES HAGAN according to NY T-16,

remained

in Cuba for about two or three weeks.

He stated

that she

cane originally from Kentucky and in her youth somehow arrived

In Isract in 1940 where she reportedly married an Arab.

She

was later jailed by the Israeli government in which country

she wos incarcerated for several yeara.:

HAGAN, according to

sounce,

facial

dea You worn bout to so years see, those

possesses an extrerely trim figure.

Source advised that it is

conmon knowledge that boch GRANt and MARIOROSSI, correspondent

- 15-

SECREZ

NW 54653 DocId: 32212574

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

NY 105-51893

for the Italian News Agency:

Anes of Rome, Italy;

and also for

the

• "Christlan Science Monitor"

Boscon; Massachusects:

have

nad sexual relations with HAGAN on -a, number oi

occacions. Source

etated that ROSSI is an affabie individual who is easy to get

along with and appeare to reclect a definitely pro-American

point of view in his mitings.

Source further described HAGAN

as definitely sympathetic to the Communist cause but in more of

& subtle on concealed fashion.

He advised that although he is

convinced that MARY HAGAN Inows both SOLTYSIAk and GORNICKI,

he knows of no close association existing between them.

The publication entitled,

"Permanent Missions to

the

UN, officers Entitled to Diplomatic Privileges

and Immunities, December, 1963, published

by the USMUN lets SIANISLAW SOLTYSIAK, First

secretary, Poland.

The 1963 Directory, Correspondents Associations,

UN, New York, Lists MARIO ROSSI as a special

correspondent for "the Christian science Monitor")

Room 486 UN.

On October 1l, 1963, NY T-15 advised that FRANCISCO

PORTELA, Chief Corresponderit of

Prensa. Latina inquired of

Cuban Ambassador CARLOS LECHUCA ap to the result of the

"controntation" this afternoon.

LECHUCA replied that they aid

not arrive at any concrete decision and

that

they simply

gathered to exchange ideas. He related that they believe that

they decided to meet again either Monday or fuesday. LECHUGA

stated that in addition one of the group thought it would be a

good. idea to go see that "famous lawren!

whose name LECHUGA

could not recall but whom PORTBIA identified as JAMES DONOVAN

who arranged for the release of certain cuban prisoners.

LECHUGA connented that he did not know who it was who had

sugsested thie

idea.

Accoraing to NY r-15;

PORDELA,

who apparently

Inew of the development,

said that i6 was DONALD GRANT WhO

sugsested the idea.

LECHUGA expressed

surprise to learn that it

wAS GRAND who suggested the idea and added that according to the

information he had received, the group had planned on sceing

DONOVAN either this afternoon or this evening and that the

Committee would then meet monday. or ruesday to discues the re-

sults of the intorvier with Donoval in that.

LECHUGA emphasized

that

"we don't want to get mised up

It is their

-16-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET

NI 105-61893

problom"

LECHUGA sugsested thac PORTELA contact CELIA

GIRONA,

Secretary at the Cuban mission

to: the UN, who was

meeting

ta several persors to lie romed a Com des ful

to whon CELiA is furnishing Infornation they requested.

Concerning the above, de is

noted that NY I-15

providad informacion on october. 12,

1963.

thet-a meating had been

called for the afternoon of ocoober ls

1963, for the purpose

of uniting variove religious and humonitarian groups into one

united group to furnish aid

hurricare in Cuba.

¿to cuba as a result of the recent

On November 22, 1903,

GRANT bad been in concace messes crusat which time ChAr

2900, omar,

SET advIsed that DONALI

asked Ampassador RAUL PRIMELIES/ has

chat the wire service

saying that the man arrested

as-the prime suspect for

having Killed the President was a

man: by the name LEE HARVBY

OSWALD, who they identified as chairman of the Fair Play for

Cube Commitee (FFCC).

PRIMALLES

admitted that they had

heard

this. and

GrANT continued that the political consequences

within this country of this thing were

absolutely enormous.

According to this informant, CRAND stated thas ir

this was

true he was afraid "for all of us

GRAND Wondered 11

PRIVETLES could eotablich any facts in segard to OSWALD and

asKed if PRINELLES had ever heard of him.

PRIMELLES replied

that he had never heard of 03MAUD until just then.

Ny P-14 furcher advised that

ORANy wondered if it

would be possible within a few minutes or less to find out

if OSWALD woo who the police say he was, adding that it does not

prove du fust because the police

say he is, but CRANI thought

could possibly trace OSwALD down somewhore.

GRANT 1n-

quired of PRIMELLES if the IPCC had an office in New York,

and PROVELuES replied thai there was an office in New York

which was headed by a man named Let.

GRANT explained

to

PRINCELes chat what is going to heppen

"I am afraid"

, 'is!

thet

all the right wing groups in

the United states are soig to

jump on this as an excuse for maling all sorts of mischier.

unloss we could establish the facts

as quickly as possible.

-1'7

SECRET

74 54653 DocТd:32212574

Page 19

---

## Page 20

SECRET

NY. 105-61893

According to. NY. I-I4, actor being

assured by

PRIMELISS that the CMUN was

to do nothing;

GRANE indicated

thai his interest in this matter was that

before a scory

lite chis gets toofar, it has got to

be

knocked dorm or the

damage will be done,

and the danage

"in my opinion" can

be.

extraordinary in the United stateo let alone to Cuba be-

cause all sorüs of things can follow from this if the idea

was spread & around that the Cubans were behind

assassina-

tion of the President.

GRANT wondered

if he could call some~

one in Havana no might make a statement,

adding that he

thought it was very important not to. walt too long to breal

this thing.

According to this source, CRANI expressed an

opinion that if FIDEL CASTRO personally

did issue a statment

absolutely disassociating himself.from

"this thing"

; 16 would

be very helpiul, bui to be of value it must be made tonight;

because if you wait until tomorrow, there is a danger that

you will never caich up with it.

A characterization cf the FPOC appears in the

Appendix attached hereto.

VIXI. OREDID AND ARREST

on Augusü 22, 1962s the records of the Retail

Credit Bureau, St. Louis;

Missoul,

as reviewed by SA ROBERT

A. BALI, reflectad a report dated February 5, 1949, which

stated that DONALD S= CRANI was marnied to JUANICA GRANT,

and resided at 3140 Oxrord. Maplowood, Issouri, for chree

weeks, and that he intended to move do 6609 Kingsbury: St. Louis,

Miscouri:

about February 22, 1945; that he-formerly resided

at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis, Missouri, and had come

St. Louis from Des Moines,

Iowa. Ho was identified as a re-

porter and writer for the

"St. Louls Post-Dispatch" newspaper,

Trelath and Olive Streets, Sü.

Missouri; that as of that

date he had been with the Post-Dispatch for approximately two

years and that he was highly regarded by his onployers.

was identified as

& former wan correspondent with the Corles

Magazine for approximately three years, one year of

was spent in washingtons,

D.C., and tro years overseas.

Prior

-18-32

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET

NY 105-61893

to that time be

was identified with the Des Moines Register,

Des Moines, Iowa, for ten years

A report of the Credit Bureau of

St. Louis dated

November 20, 1959, reflecued that DONALD GRANT employed by the

Isc. Louis post-Diepaton" newspaper, se:

"Touls,

Missouri

lor

approximately titueen years

as a news interpreter resided,

at 430 Bielman Road, Ste

suis, Missouri.

The records of the Credit Bureau Of Greater New

sork, as reviered on June 27, 1963, by PAULINE DE FLORE at the

request of IC THOMAS D. MULTARKEY

zeflect that DONALD and

JUANITA GRANT reside at 7 East BSch Street, New York, New

York.

He has been employed as a foreign affairs writer by the

Pulltaer Publishing Company: So. Louis, Missouri, for 17

yeors: and is assigned as a UN correspondent.

He

is married

and has an account with the Chemical Bank, 86th Street,

New York City.

credit is satisfactory.

The records of the

Bureau of Criminal Identifica

tion in the New York Clüy Police Departnont (NYCPD), as re-

viewed by a representative of that department,.

on January 15,

1964

contained no record identiriable. with DONALD SMITH

GRANT.

SECRET

-19-

74 54653

DooId: 32212574 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET

NY 105-61893

APPENDIX

NATION OF ISLAM

In January,

1957, a source advised ELIJAH

MUHAMMAD has described his organization on a

nationwide

basis as the "Nation of Islam" and "Muhammad's Temples

of

Islam'

On July 10, 1953, a second source advised

ELIJAH MUHAMMAD IS the national leader or the Nation of

Islam (NOI); Muhammad's Temple of Islam No. 2,5335

South Greenwood Avenue,

Chicago, Illinois, is the national

headquarters of the NOI; anduin mid-1960,

MUHAMAD and

other NOI Officials, when referring to MuHAMlAD's organization

on a nationwide basis, commenced using either "Mosque"

"Temple" when mentioning one of

• "Muhammad's Temples of

Islam"

The NOI is an all-Negro organization which was

originally organized in 1930 in Detroit, Michigan,

MOHAMMAD

claims to have been selected by Allah,

the Supreme Beings to

lead the so-called Negro race out of slavery in the wilderness

of North America by establishing an independent black nation

in the United States.

Members following MUHAMMAD's teachings

and his interpretation of the "koran" believe there is no

such thing as a Negro; that the so-called Negroes are slaves

of the white race, referred to ás "white devils"

, in the

United States; and that the white race, because of its

exploitation of the so-called Negroes, must and

will be

destroyed in the approaching "war of Armageddon".

In the past, officials and members of the NoI,

-20-

SECRET

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 22

---

## Page 23

2.

APPENDIX

SECRET

NATION OF ISLAM

On May 5, 1953, che firsü source advised MUHAMMAD

had, upon advice of legal counsel, tempered his personal

statements and instrucions to his minisuers concerning

the principles of his organization in order. to avoid

possible prosecution by the United States Government;

however?

he did not indicate any fundamental changes in

the teachings of his organization.

On July 10, 1963, a third source advised MUHAMMAD

had early: in July, 1958, decided to de-emphasize the

religious aspects of the teachings of Islam and to stress

the economic benefits to be derived by those Negroes who

joined the NOI.

This policy change, according to MUHAMMAD,

would help him acquire additional followers and create

more interest in his programs.

SECRET

-20A-.

74 54653

DooId:32212574 Page 23

---

## Page 24

NY 105-61893

•1.

SECRET

APPENDIX

PRENSA LATINA

Prensa Latina (PL) is a Cuban news agency with

headquarters in Havana, Cuba, and branches throughout the

WOrld.

Prensa Latina,

which

was organized in Cuba on

June 16, 1959, follows in its releases an editorial

policy which is anti-United States and pro-soviet Union.

On April 16, 1962, Prensa Latina filed a state-

ment with the United States

Departinent of Justice conceding

that the agency receives the sum of $125,000 (cuban)

monthly from Radio Difusora Nacional, an

agency.of.or

under the supervision of a ministry of the Government

of the Republic of Cuba.

On April. 18, 1952,. Prensa Latina entered a

plea of nolo contendere in Federal District Court,

Washington, D. C., to a charge of railure to comply

with the provisions of the foreign Agents Registration

Act of 1938, as amended, and was fined $2,000.

-21-

SECRET

74 54653

DooId:32212574 Page 24

---

## Page 25

NY 105-61893

1.

- SENTEN

APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA CONMITTEE

The April 6, 1960;

edition of "The New Yorl Times"

newspaper contained a full-page advertisement captionea

"What

Is Really Haopening In Cuba,

placed by the Fair Play for Cuba

Committee. (FPOC).

This advertisement announced the formation,

of the FPCC in New York City and declared the FPCC intended

to promulgate. "the truth about revolutionary Cuba" to

neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New Yoris Times" edition of January 11, 1961,

reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States

Senate Internal Security Subcoumittee on January 1D, 1961, Dr.

CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER

as organizers of the EPCC.

•He also testified he and TABER

obtained funds from the cuban Government which were applied

toward the cost of the afore-mentioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1953,

a source advised that during

the first two years

of the EPOC's existence there was a

struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC

and thereby influence FPCC poliCy.

However: during the

past year this source observed there has been a successful

effort by FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and

other organizations in the FPCC so that today their influence

is negligible.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that the

National Headquarters of the FPCC is located in Room 329 at

799 Braodway, New York City. According to this source, the

position of National Office Director was created in the Fall

of 1962 and was filled by VINCENT "TED" LEE,

lates FPCC policy.

This source observed LEE has followed a

course of entertaining and accepting the cooperation of many

other organizations including the CP and the SWP when he has

felt it would be to his personal benefit as well as the FPCC's.

However,

LEE has indicated to this source he has no intention

of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any other

organization.

LEE feels the FPCC should advocate resumption

of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States

and support the right of cubans to manage their revolution

without interference

from other

nations, but not support

the Cuban sevolution per se.

ethe

CP and the SWP have been designated pursuant

•to Executive Order 10450.

-22%

NW 54653 DooId: 32212574

Page 25

---

## Page 26

FD-323 (Rev: 11-29:61)

SECRET

UNITED STATUS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,

FEDERAL BUREAT OF INVESTIGATION

Iri Reply, Please lifer to

File No.

NY file 105-61893

Bureau file 105-111647

1/23/54

Title

Donald Dinith Grant

Character.

Internal Security- Poland

Reference

is made to the New York report

of special Agent William I. Groves, tres dated and captioned

as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

SECRET

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI: It is the property

of the FBl and is loaned to your ugency; it and its contents.are.not to be distributed outside

your agency.

74 54653

DooId:32212574

Page 26

---

