# docid-32303829

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-294, 295

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 45737 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/28/1961

PAGES:

94

SUBJECTS :

ABR, ASSOC, REL, B/F INT, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC,

ADDRESS BOOK, PEP, TRA, BKG, BANK RECORDS, TOLL

CALLS, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, OTHER NON-TEXTUAL

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC RPT, PHOTOSTAT COPY

v9.1

HH 45737

DocId: 32303829

367

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

with the Royal Bank of Canada as outlined in the Miami lead

set forth above.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

1. Will maintain contacts with logical Informants,

IRS, Philadelphia and Departmental Attorney THOMAS MC BRIDE.

2. Will request such investigation as required in

foreign countries to develop additional data re BRUNO's business

Interest, if any, in Cuba, and Dominican Republic.

Administrative Data

The extended period in this report was necessitated

by delay in reviewing referenced special summary report and to

enable the office of origin to receive pertinent information

for inclusion in this report from auxiliary offices, thereby

eliminating submission of a status report.

Records of the Central Bank and Trust Company,

Miami, Fla., were made available to SA C. GRAHAM HURST On

a confidential basis by RENEE GORISS.

Offices receiving copies of this report should

complete investigation requested in referenced letter, in

addition to the aforementioned leads set out in this report.

Informants

PH T-I, PH 535-0, date indicated

PH I-Z, Havana 31

PH T-3,

pH 269-c

PH T-5,

Philadelphia Police Officer

PETER CARDELLO

(by request)

PH T-6,

RICHARD KING,

Assistant Manager

Atlantic City Office,'

Bell Telephone Company

-D*

COVER PAGE

NW 45737 DocId: 32303829 Page 2

---

