# docid-32296148

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10216-10424

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased NT 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

92-2918-13TH NR 95, 14TH NR 95, ISTH NR 95

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/03/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T

v9.1

HH 45854

17

DooId: 32296148

Page 1

---

## Page 2

00

1. 4

3/9/61

AIR TEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914)(92-2918)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, PITTSBUROH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL MANNANINO, aka. *

MANNARINO, ala++

AR

By airtal, 3/1/61, Nant Office advised that on that date MM 660-C

stated that GADRIEL MANNARINO tras then vacationing at the Mariner

Motel, Bollywood Beach, Fa,

The 3/9/61 toue of the "Pattsburgh Fost-darette," dally newt

paper published in Pittsbungh, T0.

captioned

• 'Burrell Well 18 Reported,

page 37, contains an artiole

artiole set out that

on 3/0/0l, the Ken 01 and Gas benpany reported conpletion or a

second well, called Ken No. 3, which 1a initially produeing a-

the rate of

80 barrels of

crude oil and 600,000 cubie feet of

natural gas per day.

The artiole said the firat well, Ken No. 2,

1s 2,000 teet northeast of Ken No. 3 and la now producing at the

rate

of 15 barrela of crude o1l end 200,000 cuble foot of natural

gas per day.

Both wells are said to be located on the form of

Attorney P. K. Jones in Lover Burrell Townshiy, Wostnozeland

county, For

The artiole concluded that a third weld will be

drilled on this sans tract of land; accoring to A. d. WoL,

President of the company:

It is noted

that it has been reported previoualy from Pa 545-0

| April or

• May, 1960, SAX MANNARINO, with ono JACK WISE,

a 45 year old

geologteal engineer fron Butler, Pa,,

formed the

6 - Bureau

13 - 98-29142

1 - 02-20103

3 * PiCtburgh

1

98-236

92-226

1377-68

142.2816

185. MAR 14 1961

TGP teng

(9)

63 MAR 17 1960 67

HH

45854 DooId: 32296148 Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

24-22914

---

## Page 3

FO 92-230

92-220

JEK Act 6 (4)

on either aide.

and it has no street

or ailey behind it. Custonarily,

the back yard

1a clearly Illuninated at night by several permanent

spot lights.

GABRIEL MANNARINO, hiS WIfe, JEAN, and their tho

teenage

daughters occupy the house.

the Bureau has

• beer

notified previously, GABRIEL MINNARINO' S

cottage on

old Leechburg Road, In Allegheny Township, Hestnoreland

Pa., is a one-story, frame building, which olts back

count boo teet cros tue pond on a 20 core tract shich slopen

fron front to rear.

It has a amall lake in front of it, and

1t la surrounded by mooded area.

It has 3 bedroons, a

kitche, a llving-dining room, and a screened porch.

To the

right rearland about 20 feet fron

the house 1s a wire pen, which

holde three German Shepard dogs.

lives nearby, bayo there are no private telephone lines in

the

area, and it la known that the cottage has no telephone.

From past experience,

10 1s known that GABRIEL MANNARINO almost

never has visitors at his home, espectally those having

any connections with racket activitles, polities, or lau

enforcement.

SAMUEL MANNARINO occastonally has violtors of

the above types, bus the visits are so infrequent and unpredictable,

chat a does not seem teasloe to consider estab ishing a hichly

confidential source.

With regard to the MANNARINO offices at 1263 Third Avenue,

New Kensington,

Pa., it is noted that this 1e a one story,

red brick building.

It 1s located completely inside a ten foot

metal fence which surrounde the serap metal yard, and it sets

back from the sace, which in locked at night, about 50 feet.

The area between the pete.

the serap piles and the office

building is brightly Illuminated by a group of spotlights.

Recently, It has been determined that this office is protected

by the Silent Service System, an electronle burglar alarm system

which is monitored directly by the New Kensington PD.

It would seem that the most Ilkely spot to attempt to establish

a hickly confidentlal source would be at the MANNARINO cottage,

but efforts will have

to be made to resolve some of the

problems,

such as monitoring (the cottage is about 35 miles

fron the

Factoburgh Office), ingress (the doge and a caretaker

shose schedule is irregular and security (location and coverage

of all possible visitors, and possibility that there is a

burgler-alarm installed).

-20

HH

45854

DooId: 32296148

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 3/3/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PITISBURGE (92-236) 192-228)

GABRIEL

AR

MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO. aka.

In connection with

the case captioned "LOUIS COHEN, ETAL:

ITIT - CONSPIRACY" in which it has been previously reporte

that an unidentified IRS informant stated/

JEK Law. 11(a).

it is noted that on 3/1/61,

SA JOHN S. HUGHES and SAC BERNARD C. BROWN traveled to the

area in the vicinity of the airport at Johnstown and

observed that

All three roads giving access to the airport were thoroughly

checked; and it was determined that the diagram was not

accurately drawn.

On 3/3/61, PG 545-C advised as follows:

Although he is not certain they are doing so, he feels the

most likely individuals in New Kensington to be printing.

lottery tickets would be the brothers GEORGE and ROBERT

They reside at RD 2, Logan's Ferry, New Kensington.

GEORGE BUHL is president of the local printers union and

employed by "Valley Daily News,"

a daily newspaper published

In nearby Tarentum, Pa.

ROBERT BUHL may be working in a

new printing shop on Greensburg Road, outside of New

Kensington.

125

921

=2918-

Bureau

2-

Pittsburgh

TGE/JW

(5)

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

NOT RECORDED

ON

7:20-98 Out a MAR

MAR O 1961

57961

LI RELEASE IN

E RELEASE IN PART

Il(a)

LI TOTAL DENIAL

& CHeR 330

MAR 19150

boroved

• Sent .

Per

Special Agent in Charge

1

ORIGINAL PILSE IN

45854 DooId: 32296148

Page 4

---

