# docid-32308851

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10296-10179

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 2-1474-42, 43

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 53932 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINÁTOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DAVIS, GEORGE E. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/10/1958

PAGES :

16

SUBJECTS :

JAN, ASSOC, P/P, FINANCES, INTV, BLECHER, JACQUELINE

AND DANIEL H.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, LHM

V9.1

14 53932

DooId: 32308851

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 2-183

Identity

of Souce

Date of Activity

or Description

of Information

Agent to

Date

Whom

Received Furnished

1/24/58

File Number

Where

Located

T-2 is

PSI MANUEL: TAMARGO,

Tampa, Fla.

н. К.

Instant case

RUTHERFORD, JR.

T-3 is

JOE GRABLE,

Peninsular

Telephone Co.,

Tampa, Fla.

Telephone listings1/30/58

н. K.

Instant case

RUTHERFORD, JR.

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and I-symbols have

been utilized only in those instances where identity

must be concealed.

LEADS

Suc

bearan

58

REQUESTS OF BUREAU:

Reference is made to the expressed opinion of

Mr. JOHN DAVITT, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,

as set forth in Section I, Sub-section C, of this report.

The Bureau is requested to consult Mr. DAVITT as to

whether he desires any further investigation conducted,

in addition to that set forth in this report, as well as

in reports submitted by other offices to date.

NEW YORK:

Will report results of investigation to date.

2.

NW 53932 DooId:32308851 Page 2

---

