# docid-32273737

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/22/201

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER :

181-10002-10125

RECORD SERIES : NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NARA

FROM:

O'NEILL, JAMES E

TO:

SCHWARZ, FREDERICK A O

TITLE :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1991

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54545 Date:

DATE: 07/18/1975

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

SSCSGO ACCESS TO MATERIAL IN PRESIDENTIAL

LIBRARIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Attached letter Schwarz to Rhoads 7/15/75 1p.; letter Schwarz to Rhoads7/14/75 2pp.

v9.1

NW 54545 DooId: 32273737

Page

1

64

---

## Page 2

JUL 1 8 1975

MI. Frederick A.0. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel

Select Committee to Study Governmental

Operations with Respect to Intelligence

United States Senate

Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Schwars:

I have your letters of July 14 and 15 to Dr. Rhoads, who is away this

week and next, and I want to acknowledge böth of them for him.

Since the first letter arrived, Dx. Dandel J. Roed, Asaistant Archiviat

for Preoidential Libraries, has discussed with Mr. Wilderotter the re-

quest it contained and received frou hin instructions for the Kennedy,

Johnson and Elsenhower libraries. Unfortunately there were some

Initial misunderstandings between your staff and Mr. Wilderotter which

I hope have now been worked out to your satisfaction. If there 1s

anything further I, Dr. Rhoads, or Di. Reed can do to assist your

investigation, ploase let us know.

Sincerely,

James E? O' kill

JAMES E. O'NEILL

Acting

Archivist

of the United States

CC:

Hon. James A. Wilderotter

Official file-NLV

Day file-N

NLK, NLJ, NLE

Reading file-NL

DJReed : ach

34545

Doc1d:32273737

Page 2

---

## Page 3

18 JUL 1975

=.

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

.. *JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

GARY HART, COLO.

@nited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TC

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, FITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 15, 1975

Received

NAIN

JUL 17 19751

Dr. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the Unites States

National Archives and Records Services

Eighth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

The Select Committee, in its investigation of the question

of possible U.S. involvement in the assassination of foreign leaders,

also requests access for Messrs. Lawrence Kieves, Daniel Dwyer, anc

Thomas Dawson (all with TS/SI/TK/B) at the Kennedy Library.

in addition to the individuals named in my June 30 and July 2 letters

to you.

Sincerely,

Frederick A. O. Schwarz, Jr.

Chief Counsel

CC:

The Honorable James A. Wilderotter

Associate Counsel to the President

Copy sent to NhK. 1/17

CR

HH 51545

DocId: 32273737

Page 3

---

## Page 4

15 FUL 1975

....

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOF

*REDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSE!

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

Writed States Senate

STUDY GOVEENMENTAL OFERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 84TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

Received NA-N

JUL 1 5 19751

July 14, 1975

NSC

only.

P:

Sater

Liste

DI. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National Archives and Records Service

Eighth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

As the Select Committee proceeds with its investigation of

paramilitary operations--in particular in Laos--it finds that it

needs to review minutes (or memoranda of conversation) from meetings

of National Security Council bodies conducted during the Eisenhower,

Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, as well as notes, memos, studies.)

and other materials on this subject lodged in the Presidential

libraries.

Members of the Committee staff have been in touch with Dr. Reed

of your staff, who indicated that NSC material should fall within

the "section 11" category for White House documents--that is, docu-

ments to which the Archives can grant access on its own authority.

Dr. Reed did indicate that you would, of course, consult with the

White House; that should be no problem given the understanding the

Committee has with the White House about access to documents neces-

sary to our inquiry.. Our contact point at the White House is

Mr. James Wilderotter (406-7094), who should be able to provide the

necessary clearance.

Members of the Committee staff have been or will be contacting

the three libraries notifying them of our need to review these mater-

ials. We understand that an oral assurance from you that the clear-

ance has been obtained will suffice.

nat a sural as

At this time, we are interested in reviewing documents pertaining

to paramilitary operations in general and to Laos in particular for

the period mid-1950's through the 1960's.

Members of the Committee staff who will be reviewing these docu-

ments are (with the security clearances each possesses) :

HH 54545 DocId: 32273737 Page 1

---

## Page 5

-2-

Alan Romberg (IS/SI/TK/B)

William Trueheart (TS/SI/K/B)

Dorothy C. Dillon (TS/SI/K/B)

Due to requirements of preparing background materials as quickly

as possible, it would be helpful if the staff members could review

the NSC materials later this week.

We would appreciate your assisting

in such

expedition.

Sincerely yours,

Frederick A.0. Schwarz, Jr.

copy to The Honorable James A. Wilderotter

Associate Counsel to

the President

54545

DocId: 32273737

Page 5

---

