# docid-32328188

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90070-10006

HQ

CR 105-107224-84

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53074 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

' DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1963

12

CRC

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redäct

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

LHM

v9.1

WH 53074

DocId: 32328188

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITLD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

RE:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ML FORMATION CONTAINED

Miami, Florida.

April 16, 1963

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

CAAB

9-19-94

26

DECIASSIFIED

ON

2/8

ALL

LON CONTAINED

HERE 1

LES

NSTASSIFIZD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOEN

orE The April 9, 1963, issue of the "Miamd News"

carried

an article entitled,

"Exiles Say Miro To Quit"

This article stated that informed exile sources claim

that Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA would resign his post as head

of the Cuban Revolutionary Council.

exile sources gave two possibilitles for his resignation.

One faction believed that MIRO's recent trip to Washington

from which he returned Sunday (April 7) was to pin down the

United States Government to a statement of positive policy

regarding Cuba.

Another school of thought was that the

Council head was retiring from his post in protest of

Government curbing of hit-and-run raids on the Communist

island of Cuba.

The article went on to state that Dr. MIRO's

leadership in the Council, aimed at uniting all Cuban

it aimed

exiles,

has been burdened by problems since his appointment

in March 1961.

On April 10, 1963, MM T-1, a former Cuban

business executive, who 1s

employed

by the Cuban Revolutionary

Council and who 1s

a close personal friend of Dr. MIRO CARDONA,

who has

furnished some reliable information in the past,

advised that an all night session of the Council was held

beginning April 9, and ending at about 6:00 A.M., on

April 10,

during

resignation but the Council refused to accept his resignation

and MIRO CARDONA was persuaded to remain as President of the

MM I-I said that MIRO's resignation consisted of

a 25-page

statement which was in effect an indictment against

the administration of President JOHN F. KENNEDY of the United

States. In rejecting his resignation, the Council backed up

i ra count be on tat

APPR

AND

'ADV

SLIP

DAT

RIATE AGE

CES

STIR

ES

OF

CLASSIFIED AND

(KASON FOR EXTENSIO

F CIM, 18, 1-2.4.2

(2)

DATÉ OF BETTEW FOR

DECHAOSIFICATION. 4/ 46/6 30

(U)

74 53074 DocТd:32328188

Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami,

Florida

RE: CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL. April 16, 1963

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

The April 9, 1963, Issue of the "Miami News"

carried an article entitled, "Exiles Say Miro TO Quit".

This article stated that informed exile sources claim

that Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA would resign his post as head

of the Cuban Revolutionary Council.

The article said

exile sources gave two possibilities for his resignation.

One faction believed that MIRO's recent trip to Washington

from which he returned Sunday (April 7) was to pin down the

United States Government to a statement of positive policy

regarding Cuba.

Another school of thought was that the

Council head was retiring from his post in protest of

Government curbing of hit-and-run raids on the Communist

island of Cuba.

The article went on to state that Dr. MIRO's.

leadership in the Council, aimed at uniting all Cuban

net, aled

exiles, has been burdened by problems since his appointment

in March 1961.

On April 10, 1963, MM I-1, a former Cuban

business executive, who is employed by the Cuban Revolutionary

Council and who is a close personal friend of Dr. MIRO CARDONA,

who has furnished some reliable information in the past,

advised that an all night session of the Council was held

beginning April 9, and ending at about 6:00 A.M., on

April 10, during which time MIRO CARDONA presented his

resignation but the Council refused to accept his resignation

and MIRO CARDONA was persuaded to remain as President of the

Councile us

MM T-1 said that MIRO's resignation consisted of

a 25-page

statement which

was in effect an indictment against

the administration of President JOHN F. KENNEDY of the United

States. In rejecting his resignation, the Council backed up

RATION COATED

144)

(8)

105139

DECLASSIFIED

0m 1/21/84

586 BIA/GEL

211,326.

REASON FUR EXTENS

FCIM, 1I, 1-2.4.2

DATE OF REVIEW FOR

DECLASSIFICATION 4/16/Agage

NW 53074 DooId:32328188 Page 3

---

