# docid-32301191

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-247

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/03/1962

6

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GM, SMO, ASSOC, RAID, GAMBLING ACT, RACK ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45852 DocId: 32301191 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

+)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATE!* -GOVERNMENT

Memorundum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918) DATE:

11//3/623

SUBJECT:

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

AR

on 12/18/61, PG 615-C advised SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

as follows:

In his opinion, the raid at the Mannarino gambling casino -

1918-

horse room in New Kensington, Pa., on August 24, 1901, Dy IRS,

Pittsburgh, was 1ll-advised, shortsighted and poorly planned.

For two years, PG 615-C has been attempting to obtain increasingi

better information about the Mannarinos, their illegal.:

activities,

their associates and their future plans.

has done this without any thought of, or desire for monetary

simply because

of his firm conviction that

on all phases of life and

activity in the New Kensington area had to be broken.

In spite of the obvious dangers to his professional

reputation

and personal safety, he commended a process of infiltration

due to his belief that such things cannot be left to

"somebody else."

By frequenting gambling establishments, Pa 615-C met many

of the MANNARINO employees, and by performing small favors

for them, professional and

otherwise, he became friendly

with most of them and the confidant of some of them.

They furnished considerable information, some more valuable

than others, but a compendium of their bits of information

was forming

a gradually clearing picture of the entire

MANNARINO operation.

DIA 210K

he Bureaucri

- Pittsburgi

1 - 137-941

137-1139

Ex 1g

11/ 13741264

137-1017

REC- Zi

TGF/RIG

(10)

91-1914-247

LO JAN _ 1962

51 JAN 22 1962.

NW 45852 DocId: 32301191 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-236 PG-92-228

Through political and business friends and acquaintances,

PG 615-C was able to meet the MANNARINOS. Being

careful

to make his personal contacts with them

casual and seemingly

innocuous, PG 615-C was slowly accomplishing his plan to

have the

MANNARINOS, after doing their normal

check on

him, accept him into that group of prominent, local business

and professional people with whom they associate on a

social basis.

PG 615-C had

, reached the point where he could

visit SAM MANNARINO's restaurant, the Bonfire, near

Leechburg, Pa., and talk with MANNARINO rather openly about

such things as MANNARINO's use of narcotics.

He had also

reached the point where he had been invited to sit in on

small friendly card games at GABRIEL MANNARINO's

' new'

cottage near Leechburg.

From this so far limited proximity to the MANNARINOS. and.

their employees, it became apparent to PG 615-C that the

obtaining of a complete understanding of their operations

was going to be painfully but necessarily slow.

¡ the August 24, 1961 raid occurred, the result was that

the MANNARINOS ordered a moratorium on all illegal activities

and ordered that their associates and employees should,

insofar as was practicable, leave no contact with them

with each other, until advised to, the contrary;

these pede erren pittsbursnuctions not to "taik" If called

and PG 615-C is convinced none

of them will assist the Federal Government because of fears

De shyes dal and as toprial.

Because of the

and the ensuing instructions from

the MANNARINUS, PG 615-C has temporarily lost many of his

contactew kenneton are, that here to little happening

information that he can obtain and furnish to the Pittsburgh

Office.

PG. 615-C. is certain, in his own mind, that the "big guys"

will once again escape indictment and

that the most that

can be expected is that more "little fish" will be prosecuted

If this happens,

the MANNARINOS will maintain their

self-created, self-serving reputations as being "untouchable"

by prosecutive action,.

and the populace of New Kensington

will sink back into despair.

2

NW 45852 DocId:32301191 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-236 PG 92-228

In view of the above, PcI L

Leechburg

Pa., GABRIEL MANNARINO's neighbor,

was contacted on 12/18/61,

by SA FORSYTH, and PCIl was asked why he had furnished

so little information in recent months. PCI [

advised:

1961, he

observed some activity around GABRIEL MANNARINO's cottage

near Leechburg family-type outdoor picnic, occasionally

While there were never any groups of visitors,

except for one

individuals would visit the cottage.

ALSO, GABRIEL

MANNARINO was observed to leave the house almost daily at

varying hours. Since "the raid," GABRIEL MANNARINO

has developed what amounts almost to a predictable pattern.

He leaves the cottage on most days shortly before noon,

always alone, and he returns to stay at about eight o'clock

in the evening.

Visitors are extremely rare and never stay

more than a few minutes. PCI has not 'been able to obtain

any information of

recognizable pertinence and, therefore,

has not contacted SA FORSYTH.

on 12/18/61, PCI

, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

employed as Manager of the MANNARINO-owned Ken Iron and

Steel Co., New Kensington, was asked by SA FORSYTH why he

has not been furnishing and pertinent information during

the recent past, and he advised:

Even before the "Government raid" in New Kensington in

August 1961, he was not taken into the confidence of the

MANNARINOS as regards anything but their scrap metals and

gas well businesses.

They put him in charge of these two

ventures

because of his education and prior experience:

However, on occasion he overheard conversations involving

some of

their other interests and observed them meet some

of their associates and/or employees.

Since the raid, he

has not seen GABRIEL MANNARINO more than three times and

understands that GABRIEL MANNARINO is spending most of his

time at his cottage near Leechburg, Pa., while SAM MANNARINO

spends the largest portion of each day at his restaurant,

The Bonfire, "located a few miles from Leechburg."

what he has

been able

to observe and learn, SAM MANNARINO

•and GABRIEL MANNARINO see very little of

each other or of

their erstwhile associates.

PCI does not feel that he can

orobe for information from

hein suspicions

and listen but not to ask questions.

3

OTHER 4

HW

45852 DocId:32301191 Page

---

## Page 5

PG 92-236 PG. 92-228

on 12/19/61, PG. 612-C, who is an experienced numbers writer

in the MANNARINO operationin New

Kensington, was asked about

the dearth of pertinent information being received, and

informant advised:

The town

(New Kensington) has been closed down almost

completely,

as regards gambling, since the

• "Federal raid

last summer" and since the commencement of the FGJ inquiry.

Besides the numbers racket, which is down in volume by at

least half, there are only three card games in the city,

only one of which is operating on any given night. Horse

bets, sports bets and dice games have been eliminatea,

allegedly by orders of the MANNARINOS. : Men who have been

for years employed in one phase or another of the MANNARINO

gambling set-ups are now loafing about town, and their

principal topics of discussion concern the

FGJ hearings,

their belief that the newly-elected reform administration

in New Kensington will not allow resumption of open gambling,

and their

"fears" concerning their own futures.

With

regard to the numbers racket, elaborate security measures

have been put into effect, and only those possessing the

Federal Wagering Tax Stampcare permitted to participate.

In view of these facts, pertinent information has been scarce

and unreliable.

Spot surveillances at residences, legitimate business sites

and at known hangouts during the

past four months have been

wholly unproductive and tend to substantiate the comments

of

the

above mentioned informants.

Due to the situation created by the IRS raid on August 24,

1961, and the resultant FGJ probe, as it affects receipt

by the Pittsburgh Office of positive information concerning

the MANNARINOS and their activities, the Pittsburgh office

the Eaten so coming

has found it impossible to comply fully with Bureau instructions

concerning submission of a daily teletype summary of pertinent

developments.

As matters now stand, the only readily discernible method

of collecting current positive information concerning either

MANNARINO is by establishing highly. confidential sources.

4

HW

45852 DocId: 32301191 Page 5

---

