# docid-32397477

## Page 1

Date: 12/06/00

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10433-10160

RECORD SERIES :

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:MM 53216 Date:

ORIGINATOR :

OPEN

FROM :

TO:

TITLE : WESIBERG FOIA REQUEST: OVERT PUBLICATIONS BY U.S.

CONGRESS

DATE : 00/00/

PAGES : 29/

SUBJECTS : WEISBERG, HAROLD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK-RH19:F10 1998.12.18.09:32:06:250120: NBR

(R) - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HIH 53216

DooId: 32397477

Page 1

---

## Page 2

341

1148

53216

DocId:32397477

Page 2

---

## Page 3

* UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

APPEALS REVIEW FORM

SECRET

TOP SECRET

1.

Tab 34/ contains

Overt Documenes

dated

2.

( ) Previously denied in toto under exemption (s)

( ) Segregable portions previously released;

excised portions exempted

under

3.

( ) Located during

the DDO appeals review.

( ) Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification

courter teste quet longe

Diet eongun

4. I RECOMMEND: Releace in Toto

Heerine - con on

зум.

( ) Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption (s)

( ) ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Sustain initial release of sanitized version with excised portions

exempted under

( ADD exemption (s)

( ) DROP exemption (s)

( ) Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

5.

6.

( ) Deny document in toto under exemption(s).

() Release a sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

of

The exemptions cited above are being claimed to protect the following:

Information from a foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship

Information which would/could identify the source

Information pertaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of CIA overseas installation

Location

Name

of unacknowledged domestic installation

of CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file number

i 3 OTHER

Privacy of other individual

COMMENTS and/or SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

During the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

) maintained

classified to

declassified

desensitized

downgraded to

UNGLASSIFIED

11H

0216 / D0010: 39007477 PaLL CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 012170

TOP SECRET

---

## Page 4

MES PRCII]

EX-4866

SUBVERSIVE INVOLVEMENT IN THE

ORIGIN, LEADERSEIP, AND ACTIVITIES OF

THE NEW MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE

TO END THE WAR IN VIETNAM

AND ITS PREDECESSOR ORGANIZATIONS

STAFF STUDY

COMMITTEE ON INTERNAL SECURITY

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

NINETY-FIRST CONGRESS

"SECOND SESSION*

(ENCLUDING INDEX)

4530

Prepared and released by the Committee on Internal Security

US GOTERIESI PRIVILNO OFFICE

#ASTINGTON = 1910

Fastingaa, D.C. 20102- 2i20s $S esats

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date

1 g AUG 1976

346

HH 53216

DocId: 32397477 Paue

---

## Page 5

т 1555, me

Sixca

seno a cariceal cocitino saite

mles dloost entirly the

scdision cl lirs. KIllie Eysk,

biT aso list the follos

ane pelliass, sooaa 3o2,

Saesce Ealllena, Bes111

eachao, SiSaey Feczy ACd Cors $eL$$»

Xesa to 2, Stocdos teccoco Interalioni Ilaisex

10, 230 2.

Mtla Condimancs of tbe stoce-

1204 2

baia c

342

Esotodte 336;

ed so fa dse balesre

2i5s

ZORTOe

Fag.

ely,

SH a'SO 1S C JORDEIS 1 13 E NNTUANC CONEME

22 543T25222ds 7e 3r8s 3-15 (1567),5

«Sstea ds psori ol tbe Sev Yooo's zaa Ide piir to Dba Sorsbeo 1969 derce

239, 35104

nils doccsint ie pact o2-

255-

12,3.7

GGAI

BEO ASO "AT RAXDO NES FED JEE DIRAEU IST,

20 mion to 15s exeette asd steming cooittees ot Sey Hoce Srce

Sinl fux, Aagart 7, 1969-

HW 53216

DooId:32397477

Page

5

---

## Page 6

RIDIS, CIVIL AND

CRIMITAL DISORDERS

HEARINGS

BEFORE THE

PERMANENT

SUBCOMTIVHINGION INVESTIGATIONS

COMMITTEE ON

GOVDRVIFINI OPERAUTONS

UMIND STATES SANAND

NSINETUEETLEE CONGRESS

SECOND SESSIO

PUBSTAN TO SENATE RE ONULION 216, OUTa CONGRESS

TUNG 20 AND 21, 1965

PART 9

Printer los the ose on the Committre on Goyerament Operations

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

19 AUG 1976

. Date

34%

1TH

53216

DooId:32397477 Page 6

---

## Page 7

1SS6

when we speak of strengta within a gang, of fellows who just

tag along and join berause toey hare no choice not to join, they feel

that it would be dangerous it they did not.

Mr. ADLErsLut. There would os a treat deal of fear on the part o

the merchants, on the pare oi the community, on the part of the chil

dren in the commuair.

by the parents. and eren the schools and

schooteachers, principals, and so fortz there was a great deal of

Mr. NIcore. Tas? There sill is

Mr. ADLERIAN. There still is a great deal of fear that has been

exploited by these gangs. They hare used threats. They hare used

killings. They have murdered other children. They hare intimidated

wiresses. Is that correct?

Mr. MooRE. Tea

JIr. ADLEPILLS. We were taling about extortion before, I shows

you some of these cards and act you whether of not you have seen

cards similar to these in the indons of any of the shops during the

rioting?

(The document was handed to the vitness.)

Mr. Joore. This was duriny the Martin Luther King riot situation

when these signs trere put. the April 4 riot situation. Those are the

sions ther had in the neighboroods daring the riots of April and 5.

Ir. toLeput. And they were put up by whom

Vir. Moore. The Jain 21.

Mr. ADLEDEL. Would you read them?

3r. MooRe. This one says, "Do not touch. Signed, Jeff Fort, Jain 21.

Blackstone Rangers?

The CauPoLor. That may be made exhibit 158.

(Document referred to wras marked -Exhibir Jo. 183" for reference

and may be found in the files of the subcommittee.)

JIr. Joore. Jei Fort did rot write this. He can't write.

Jr. ToLEraT. Somebody wrote it for him?

JIr. NIcoRe. Les. I am not trying to be runns, but it is preposterous

to hare somebody as a director-when tre speak of the fourth-grade

achierements of the leaders, when ron throw his achievements in there

with the rest of them, then the leaders achierements are less than the

students within the class. He has no achierements.

Mr. ADEPOrA. Do you believe that & program could work for

gang members it it were properly superrised?

SIr. Moore. Not for gang members. no. I think a program should

be for youth wirkin a community. The minute you specify gang mem-

bers-

Ton encourage others to become pang members. We are fooling

ourselves when we say son can work directly with gangs in this area.

give them something. That about the kids who don't belong to gangs?

Ther get nothing. So ther join so they, too, can get something

Mr. Aprera. Is there any war you can work the program, utiliz-

ing the gang leader's influence over gang members in the community.

with proper superrision?

Mr. Moore Why gang members? Why can't the communities be

come more responsible and hare it like any other program?

Mr. Apterori. In other words, it wonld hate to be open to etery

JIr. Moore. To everTbody.

Mr. AoLForas. And notinvolre the gang members?

HH 53216 DocId:32397477 Page 7

---

## Page 8

1345

The Curat. That is enough, itself?

3E. Rosz. Tes.

The CHaRIs. So you were getting prepared and organized for any

exer mality like that?

JIT. Rose T'es, sir.

JEr. ADLErIL. Do you know abont the meeting in Philadelphia?

Jir RosE Tes, I do.

Vr. Arepas. Hould you tell usabout that meeting?

Mr. Rose I wasn't there.

NIr. ADLEPOLAS, Tell us what you baor aboutit.

Mr. Rose That is there the Retolntionary Action Jovement pea-

ple first came into the picture. Inat was taere.

VIE TOLEILT. Thatis hUl?

MIr. Rose. Tes. That is where they first came into the picture. 1 cou-

plent our members went down there.

Nir. AbLErater. Did they come to see you in Chicago?

JIr. Rosz. Later they came

JIr. ADLERSIN. Go ahead and tell us.

Mr. Rose. They were talking over a list. This is what I was told. I

wasn't there.

Mr. IDLEara. Tho told you this?

Mr. Rose Eugene Haiston, the president, and Lamar Bell.

Nir. Rosz Tes. They had a list oi people who mere to be assassinated

the rest time big riots started. They were all of the civil rights leaders

that ron have, lie the guys irm VA ACP.

lee Caneyar. In other fords, li l understand you right, and I

con& want to put words into your mouth, they wanted to have some

of the nonriolent leaders assassinated?

JIr. Rose Tes, sir. all of them.

The CHAPoLLy. All of them?

Ja. RosE All the big leaders

The CHArusY. So the militanis, refolutionary leaders, wanted to

hare their own people assassinared?

Vr. Posz. Thisis thai I heard. I was not there.

toron?

The Craporis. You were not there, but that is what was reported

Mr. Rose. Tes sir.

MIr. ADLERALIS. Did they tell you the names of the people they

wanted asassinated!

NE- Root. Tes, they did.

ME. ToLERaLLS. Tho were ther ?

Mr. Rosz. Martin Luther King. Jr.

The Caris. He was one of thera they had marked?

ME. Purse: Jes.

The Chiroter. Whoelse ?

de. Rese: dad the people irom the LACP. I can't remember

ni their names, becanse I didat par any attention

The Cases. They wanted to kill the leaders of the NAACP?

Mr. Rose. Tes. The large civil rights groups that are nonviolent,

HH 53216 DooId:32397477 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Negotiation Now!

Re present imposse con be broken and a hat puito

"A cessation of the bombing of North Vietnam is ca

increczingly horrible slaughter and desiraction oi

imperative necessity to create conditions for pecce

Yetdom wor saty if one side or the other shows the

jos and the courage. and ihe compassion for hu-

U Thent, Secretory-General of the United Nations

anity to icre the initiatime on o frst step.

March 28,1957

• We support the call by l Thant for new initiatves to bring about negoliations atrong

all parties to the conilict, leading to a political settlement of the Vietnam war.

• Fe call upon the Uniteg States, the most porerful nation in the world, to take the

first step and end the bombing of Horth Vietnam now and without conditions. We

ask cur government to take further initiatives leading to a standstill truce.

We ask Morth Vietnam and the Mational Liberation Front to respond affirmatively

Éo any new United States initiatives and to join with the U.S: in a standstill cease-

fire.

We ask South Vietnam to respect and join in these steps.

This course of action presents to the United States a moral alternative to our stated

salicy of bringing about negatiations by force, or to the devastation of all-out war, and

a more realistic alternative than unilateral withdrawal.

We believe that such initiatives now can break the impasse and lead to negotiations

at a poltical settlement providing for

the removal of all foreign troops and for

gentinely democratic elections in which ail South Vietnamese can parteipate frealy.

→ END THE WAR

SIGN YOUR NAME

SUPPORT HEGOTIATION NOW!

AFPROIER FOR RELEASE

19 AUG 1976.

WN 53216 DoeId: 32397477 Page 9

---

## Page 10

21 Session

CODITIES PROFI

224- 3535

THE NEW LEFT

MENORANDUM

PREPARZD TOB

THE SUBCOJDITTEE TO INVESTIGATE

THE ADJUNISTRATION OF THE

INTERNAL SECURITY ACT AND OTHER

INTERNAL SECURITY LAWS

OP TEE

COSMUTTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

UNITED STATES SENATE

NINETIETE CONGRESS

SECOND SESSION

OCTOBER 9, 1063

Priated for the use of tee Committee on the Judiciary

FFASHULYGTOLY : 1233

For sale ly the Spuria endost of Dorments, US. Goramant Priatias Ollea

Masan, D.C. 20102 = Rrico $1

Dale

CLOLAUG 4360

, цо

53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 10

---

## Page 11

THE TETY LEFT

27.

osis the black press and the Aúrican press be larited to all fature SYCO press

conferences (ibid, a T5) -

It was this Lind of metamorphosis which transformed SNCC and

CORE from civil rights organizations into rerolutionary forces call-

ing, not for the entrance of Negroes into society, but for the revolu-

It tras this change which provided them with a common basis for

Trich also sought the

the status quo had to be challenged, whether it tras the selective service

sister or the tar.

Perhaps the major fusion of the civil rights movement with the

Yet Leit was found, hotever, in the parson of the late Jartin Inther

The assassination of Dr. King in Ilemphis on April 4 of this year

mas an unspentable tragedy, an afiront to every civilized man. There is

an ancient saying that one should say nothing critical about the dead.

But a discussion of the dereloping relations between the New Left

and civil rights movement is impossible without making note of the

role played by Dr. King in the derelopments in the closing years

of his career.

Martin Luther King, when he first emerged as leader of the civil

righis morement, made a number of positive contributions for which

he has rightly been honored. During this early period, among other

things, he insisted on contiolence and he avoided association with the.

extremists. Before his death, horeyer, he had moved into an increas

bely open alliance with the extremists and he had become increasingly

reckless in his criticism of American foreign policy.

Speaking in stew lork on April 1, 1967, King called on "all who

ônd the American course in Tiatnam & dishonorable and unjust one"

to apply as conscientious objectors to military service. Flo described

Commenting

him with us?

1 challenge came from TYhitney M. Young, executive director of

the Urban League. He said that since Jegroes "have as their first.

priority the immediate problem of surrival in this country *

limited resources and personnel arailable to civil rights agencies tor

work in their behalf should not ba direrted into other channels."

April 15 protest demonstrations in Jew Jork and San Fran-

cisco were organized under the leadership of Rev. James Bevel, chief

weistant to King. At the Yew York meeting, King said that he hoped

to raise $700,000 to finance the work and that:

We flem the Tietnam summer project as a major organized followup to last

wool's massire peace demonstration. It srill offer a constructive channel for all:

those who ask, "That can I do?"

Dr. Ting said the civil rights marement had shown that

Arrogant power can be made to yield to organized courage to the nigut tor.

47220.

52: 602

53216 DoeId: 32397477 Page

---

## Page 12

2

THE TET LEFT

Southern Christian Leadership Conference, announced a

summer drire" against the war and against U.S. interrentions else-

where. He said thai the drive would include antidraft activities

sponsorshio pi peace candidates in local and State elections, and

referendums in municipal elections asking for an end to the war.

"Fe throughont the Nation who oppose the war must reach others

Tho are concerned," Dr. King said. "It is time to move from demon-

strations and university teach-los to a nationwide community teach-

magazine, & pamphlet distributed at the conferencs stated the long-

ranga zim of the oronizing effort is the creation of a rocal, strong

antimar block by 1963. "We aim at more than changing a rote or two in

Congress." the pamphlet said, "We seek to defeat Lyndon Johnson and

his Far!"

A statement issued br Freedom House strongly criticized Martin

Luther Fing for lending his "mantle of respectebility" to an anti-

Tietnam mar coalition that includes well-known Communist allies

and luminanes of the Amencan leit. The paper said that Dr. King

had "emerged as the public spear carrier of a civil disobedience pro-

gram that is demagogic and irresponsible in its attacks on our govern

nent" Joining in this statement was Roy Wilkins, executive director

of the NAACP and a member of the board of directors of Freedom

House (Nem Tor Times, Jay 21, 1967).

In an adrertisement in the Jery York Times a call for "Vietnam

Summer 1957 tres made ander the names of Dr. Jiartin Luther King.

Ur. Benjamin poca, robert scheer. Ur. dohn C. Bennett, Carey ste

Williams, and a number of others. The statement noted that

Fletnara Sammer is a call foz 70,000 volunteers, including 2,000 fall-time

workers, to specd the sartaer la 500 communides

organizing and edacating

against the Far, * * * Tietaam Summer is a project to reach the millions of

• Citizens in commitles across the Jatioa who oppose the mar in Vietnam boé

Those Toices Dare not jet been heard (tae ew Tort Times, Apr. 30, 196T, D.

+B).

The goal of this project mas to crente fa new, independent force in

America which will undertake a broad range of concrete actions to end

tha trar." The group proposed to stimulate antimar feeling among

young people and to encourage them in their refusal to join the A rar

or fight in the war.

The antidrai aspect of the New left has been adopted by many

trithin tha civil rigats morement. On lay 1. 1967, Clereland 1, Sel-

lers, Jr., one of the three major officers of the Student Non-Violent

Coordinating Committes, reftised to be inducted into the Army, The

22-Jear-old Segro called the Vietnamese trar a "racist conflict" and

joined with Stokely Carmichael, then stadent committee chairman, in

aconsing the United States of drafting large numbers of Negroes as

part of a plan to commit "calculated genocide" At the same time.

Carmicheel annonaced that 15 other stadent committee workers hac

reiused indaction within tha previous 3 months as part of the orga-

nization's compaign against the maz in Vietnam (Dow York Times,

3lay 2,1907, p. 11):

HH 53216 / DocId:32397477 Page 12

---

## Page 13

THE JETT LEFT

29

In an intertiew, the Rererend James Berel, assistant to Dr. Martin

Iuther King, and head of the April 15 antiwar march in New Tork

and San Francisco, was asked how he would "implement" antidrait

sympathies. "You don't need a whole lot of complicated plans," Berel

said. "Then 3Ir. Johnson comes around to get jou, you just say: 'I

won't go."" He expressed the vier that-

3[r. Johnson is not going to step, but we won't stop either. We're going to or-

pasize students by the thonsends to go to jail by the thousands.

** Te're gOi

cot of the school and into the screets* Close down Ner Fork City.

pel MIr. Johason plain that he is going to here to stop killing the folks in Tiet-

se (the Washington Post, Apr. 30, ISST, R C-#).

An antidraft orranization was established at predominantly

Negro STorehouse College in Atlanta, Ga. Serents-eight students sioned

• petition which declared "Te cannot conscientiously permit our

selves to be used as objects in mar." Henry Bass, a spokesman for the

Atlanta Committee to End the Tar in Tietnam, said that

the Morehouse guys are pledged to seck legal classification as CO's; that is,

theg-are pledged not metely to opt out by going to Cansda, staring in graduate

school, fatbering children, eic, but acrually to combat the drait (National Guar-

dian, Apr- 22, 1957, D. 3):

a at an a trong it in the i rights movement, there

civil rights and by many legro leaders.

Speaking at Howard Unitersity in Washingion, D.C. Richmond

3L. Elorers Alabama's former attorney general and a racial moderate

charged that Stokely Carmichael had betrayed Jegro interests and

zor George Wallace and suggested that the two men run on the same

Ecket for President and Vice President.

I do see a very close parallel with such a lender detring a draft notice and the

Corernor ot a State stending in a schoolhorse door in deñance of a Federal court

order that admits a qualiñed citisen d thet State to the State tnitersit, and at

tempts to exclude ber for the sole reason tost she is a Negro.

Desance is defance, #hecher Jou are deiring a draft notice or a Eederal court

prder (Tasbington Post, May 3, 195T, 2 A-9).

Floiters noted that "black power, defiance, and black supremacy

are just as immoral and legal as mbite porrer, dehance, and white

sapremacy." Tuming to Dr. King. he said that there is no connection

between the civil rights morement and the war in Vietnam:

• I fear that certain leeders hate takes this attitade in order to keep theseltes

an the ners rather then spending their energies to improte the Jegro's position

in this Vation.

Dr. Palph Bunche a member of the IA1CP's board of directors

and longtime T'egroleader, said that-

In ziy tier, Dr. King sbould positrely and pablicly give up one role or the

otber. The two eforts hare litale in common (New Jork Times, ApE. 10, 1901,

D. 21) -

At the antimar meeting in Jew Tork on April 15, Dr. Eing tound

himself doing what he once said he moald not do. He appeared on the

HH 53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 13

---

## Page 14

THE JETY LEFT

31

said he thought Dr. King was sincare in making the pre-

"But I think it's dangerous *** He said that

"less dis

apline pasons might inerme meh wurings is encouragement

to riot (New York Times, Apr. 21, 1967).

The leader of a group of lest side Negro ministers in Chicago

declared that Dr. Martin Luther King should "get the hell out of here"

because his civil rights marching in Chicago last summer "created

The Reverend Henry Mitchell said that

If he wants to march on the lest Side, let him march with rakes, brooms, and

He noted that the ministers reprecented the sentiments of 50,000

of co sets o eat peace, tore, to ire in the cort ataities

and upgrade them." (Chicago Tribune, Apr. 20, 1967).

Scores of Howard University stadents chanted "Burn, baby, burn"

as an effigy of Selectire Service Director Lewis B. Hershey was set

ahre durig a campus rally on April 19, 1967. The burning was spon-

taneous, following hangings of effigies of Hershey, Unirersity trest-

dent James ML. Nabrit, Jr. and Dean Frank Snowden of Fioward's

College of Liberal Arts. After the hangings and a round of speeches

denouncing Nabrit and Snowden as "Uncle Toms," someone in the

crowd of more than 400 students yelled, "Burn that white muffinhead."

Other students quickly took up the cry, shonting "burn him" and

"Naplam him." (Washington Post Apr. 20, 1901)

Before the hangings most of the crowd jammed into a hallway in

a campus building where a number of stadents were facing disciplinary

charges for forcing General Hershey to cancel a speach at Howard ori

* March 21. Outside the bullding Ronald O. Ross, cochauman of the

troject Awareness student committee that had invited Hershey to

speak, said:

• I'm sorry I Invited him. I don't want bim to speak. He's a white man (ibia).

Referring to university charges that the students "disrupted the

***orderly operation of the school," Poss continued:

With this rope We're going to disrupt it some more We don't intend to be

responsible.

We intend to be black *

** He Dabrit] is reading Homer and

shooting this university to pot. I say we don't hare time for Homer. First let's

get rid of every Uncle Tom around here (ibid.).

A cache of arms, ranging from a slingshot to a samed-of rifle, ras

uncorered by police in a raid on a Harlem theater noted for its pro-

duction of plays with antimhite themes. A police inspector said the

raiding party also found a rifle practice range in the basement of the

Black Arts Repertory Theater. Offcers arrested six men, including

one who was armed and tried to block detectires at the door. Police

said they found a sign inside the theater which read:

All reapous cleaned and sharpened by 6 p.Ia All weapons trill be inspected

by Khan, the Leader.

The theater is the same one founded by bitterly antimhite poet-

plartright LeRoi Jones with partial support from antiporerty funds

(Mashington Post, Mar. 18,1966).

53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 14

---

## Page 15

3-1

THE NETY LEST

against things as they are, regardless of whether the things be detri-

mental or beneficial.

It is for this reason, ico, that violence becomes a tactic which in

the eyes of the Negro Jew Leit, is wholly parmissible. It is, after all,

the established order of doing things to call for rational discourse,

debate, and a democratic and peaceful settlement of disputes. It the

Jer Left-civil rights coalition disputes the establishment in all areas,

it also disputes the establishment with regard to violence.

It is important that the majonty of Americans recognize the fact

that these rerolutionary niems are held by only a small minority of

Jegroes, tet, like the non-legro dew Left, It is 2 miltant, rocal and

actire minority and it makes its presence tele out of all proportion to

its numerical strength. facis in reverse may be an understandable

reaction to many years of discrimination and sutering, but it is the

kind of reaction which will prevent real progress in the very impor-

tant area of race relations

Martin Luther King's briet membership in this coalition, that he

had become willing to appear on the same platform and program with

the black power adrocates he shunned only a short time before, indi-

cates that his own riems had changed significantly. The fact that

J'egro opinion has been sharply dirided ofer the nety afiliation of

portions of the civil rights movement with the antimar morement

tras pointed out in a recent study of the etect of the war in Viet-

Dam upon American hite:

The pecnillar condict In Jegro santiment emerged strikingly, too, in a measure.

ment of current attitades tomazd Yobel laureate Martin Inther King. Flas King'3

outspoken aoti-Yiecaam mar stand, the pollsters asked, damaged the civil rights

noTeDent? Only 37 percent of the Negroes (as compared with the 6t percent or

toe general public) zoswered "Ies"' Jet, signiacants, the poll suggested a

dramatic decline in King's popalarity among Jegroes. Only 15 percent of thero,

in fact, said that they toald mote for him if he ran foz President. The chier

reason for this does not soem to be King's pacifsia. Rather, it apparently is that

bis endtrar actirity has beclouded his previous role as a champion of the Negro

cause per se, "The mar isn't Kioz's problem," says the mothez of a Negro GI

from Chicazo, *bat the Jegro people is, and he ought to stick to it" (Nemsweek,

Jal= 10, 106T, D. 35) -

Despite the eforts of the militants, Negro participation in antimar

protests has been sligat. Slany see a parallel with past efforts oi

the Communist Party to enlist Negro suppori for a separato degro

Republic in the South by identuying themseltes with civil rights

actirities. But for the limited response to the black porter appeal,

it trould appear that the carrent Jew Left attempt to use the Negro

as a catalyst for revolution will fail as dismally as have past efforts to

ploit the American Vegro for rerolutionary purposes

The split which has been growing in the ciril rights movement since

the association of some of its members with the Jew Tett, antimar

motement, has seen conilicting organizations and riempoints arise...

tit-convict Eldridge Cleater, the Black Panthers® ")Linister of In-

forration" and presidential hominee of the Peace and Freedom

Parts: explained his rerolutionary goals to a group of San Francisco

America is up against the mall. This whole apparatus, this capitalistic system

and its institutions and police... all rood to be avigned to the garbage can of

histors and I don't zire a

_* who doesn't like it. It ire can't bare it,

*Sona obscene words used by Ter Lah activats bare Leen onitted trora these artdeles

Alchooga it might be argaed that to quote such lanzoage monid help to deplet the natore of

rolliraats.

sist olensire moris were deleted beesuse they were found to

ejectiooable under congressional stadards.

HIH

53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 15

---

## Page 16

TBE NEW LEFT

37

Stokes noted that

.. Jon must not confuse some of the bear discarbaties around our country

that hare refect reacdon di people to 21 unresponsire cir administration or to a

continnell frustrating entironment. The acis vi te peopie the other night trere

just deliterately contrired lamlesness and deceminates to commit riolence

among this small group. (Mashington Posy July 25, I92S.)

Experts state that the her fgore in the conspiracy was Fred

"Ahmed" Erans, a local black power leader who has been linked to the

pro-Peking retolutionary action moremen. In May 1967, Det. Sgt

John Ungrary, bead of the Clereland police demarment's subresire

squad, said that terrorists under Brans direction mere plotting a

"black rerolution" to coincide with "a war benteen Pied China and the

Trited States." Erans, who mas arrested during the riots, mas charged

with shooting to bill.

"If my. carbine hadn't jammed I trould hare

killed you three," police quoted bim as saying. "Thad you in my sights

then my rifle jammed."

Erans told police that he and IT others had

organized the sniper attacks that resulted in the deaths of three police-

men. Told that three of his snipers had baen slain. Erans said. "They

died for a torthy cause." Phil Hurchings, militant head of the Student

Non-Violent Coordinating Commitse, toid neirsmen that the Cleve

Jand outbreaks were "the first stage of rerolucionary armed riolence."

(Human Events, dug. 3, 1963.)

It is erident that a certain segment of the "ciril rights" morement

has turned to separatism and to riolence. It has joined forces with the

Her Leit in opposing the rers stracture of American society, and in

calling for defeat abroad and rerolution at home

Those who truly seek cinil rights, mho truly sees an American society

in which Negroes and mhites share a common cirizenship, are disturbed

wath this trend among

Jounger, nore militant legro spokesnen. This

concern mas expressed by former Secretary of Health, Education, and

Welfare John Gardner:

* Negro extremists mho adrocate riolence arert that ron-tiolence did not trork

1C Is untrue

The mister rains for the Americia Jero came in response to

¿the son-riolent campaigns of Marin Luder Kine. Jr, and (before it rurned

SYCC. It is the fashion now to belittle those gains, but ther ere

go and sodeniable.

Ther trere regisiered in bistoric dril riches legislation

2od eres more empbaticalls in social practice ... The riolent tactles of the

vast tro rears hate brooght nothing boe dapared boxbior betreca the tro

• races and a storiog doma of progreis in tse secessary deire torrard social

Nor do those mho condone riolence eres speak di the legacy of bitterness ane

dificion that mill be leît tr incrensiogir barsa carbaras of destrucare inter

action, That good will it do to dramatize the problera l. in the procers, hatreds

bors thenselmes so deep that the monds permanents cripple our society

the moderboth Jerro and mbire bare boon all too sileat

(Reader's Digest, June 19%s.)

The joining of forces between the Je Leit acd certain elements

of the civil rights rotement is a dangerous symbol of the extremism

tomard which me are moring. Part of the reason for its suecess, as

Secretary Gardner has said, is that the moderates hare not stemmed

the tide. In many cases, they have encouraged it. fearing to lose their

orn leadership role. If this continues society will face an erer more

so mohien. Tialeme burs violence, me the mins of de outs

in danger. This would le harmful to all Americans.

those who appreciate the gravity of this new coalition can act to defent

its infidence and porter.

53216 DooId:32397477 Page 16

---

## Page 17

10295 975

Manor ac

4591543

THe APPi, 15 JARCH AND PLANS FOR THE FUTURE

April 15, 1967, marked the culmination of one important phase of

the antiver morement and saw large numbers of marchers parading

in New York and San Francisco. The Jew York City Police Depart-

ment's Ofice of Community Relations said that police officials at the

United Nations Plaza estimated the number of demonstrators at be-

tween "100,000 and 125,000." The parade was led by the Referend

more moderate antimar groups (Aew Lork Times, pr. 16, 1961, P. 1) -

About an hour before the parade started a crowd of young men

gathered on a rock in Central Park to burn their draft cards and dem-

onstrators said that "nearly 200" were burned. As each card caught

fire, a throng of several thousand persons, many of whom carried of

tore daffodils, chanted "flower power.""

-In one area of the park, where the demonstrators gathered pror to

the march, the U.S. Committee to Aid the Xational Liberation Front

of South Vietnam built a 40-foot-high torer of black cardboard tub-

ing. They then attached a nurnber of flags of blue and red with a gold

star in the center, the flag of the Tietcong

Most of the marchers carried signs that had been authorized and

printed by the Spring Stobilization Committee. Among the slogans

were "Stop the Bombing," "To Tietnamese Erer Called Me Nigger."

and "Children Are Not Born To Burn." There were also many

authorized" banners and placards. One, a bed sheet carried by three

young men, bore in large black letters the words "Ho Chi Minh Is a

One of the significant things about the march was the fact that it

represented a neir coalition of the so-called hippie left and the more

traditional political leit. One ere-tritness report stresses this fact:

The marchers, variously estimated at irom 100.000 to 300,000 gathered at the

Sbeep Meadors in Central Park, and the first impression the visitor receired was

that of a summer afternoon outing. The Angry Arts Against the Tar Committee

performed several plays, portraying mean and vicioas Americans murderiog inno

cent and noble Vietnamese. Poems were read, and songs tere song, and at obe

point the meeting mas interrupted br en annorcement that one of the andieace

vas needed irmediaielr on "Blippie Slill " where he tras to participate in a roch

*a roll group.

*Hippie Hill" was the point in the part where the adrocates of ISD, muri-

Juana, and other drags most and performed their own private ritual. One sign

there stated that "Tar Is 2 Bad Trip," and a small group continually beat their

improrised drum and ry thrically chanted "LSD, LSD,LSD."

Another part of the Sbeep Jeador tras used for what was politely knoma as

the Radical Contingent. Eligh atop a tome= were the flags of the Tieteong, and

money was being raised to sand to North Tiemara. A leatiet distribated by the

U.S. Committee to did the Vational Llberation Front stated that To be effectire

the peace morement must come out in support of the XLE. The Peace Morement

sould work to shot that the real enemy of Americans is not in Tietnam but in

our orra coantry."

59

82-8928

NH 53216 DooId:32397477 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TEE NET LEFT

61

Te are engazed in a mar that socks to turn toe clock of bistory back and

arpetcate white colonialist. The greatest irony and tragedy of it all is that

ce Nation which initiated so much of the retoladonary spirit in the modera

world, is now cast in the moid ca being an erd entirerolationary (National

Guardian, Apr. 22, 180T, D. 2) -

" Showing the ambivalence of the critics to the nature of the Vietcong,

Prof. Howard Zinn of Bosion Unirersity cold the Jer York rally

.. " This administration has said a eocial refolution is needed in this

doritute and crippled countrs, which we have belped to make destitute and

cippied. Who couid better carry out sech a rerolaton than the National Libera-

Lon Front? « * * it is quite clear "=" toat the National Liberation Front

can do a more eficient, bamane, and democratic job of running South Tietnam

then either Premier Ky or General Mesnoreland or Ellsworth Banker (ibid.).

According to antimar spokesmen, the mobilization represented the

broadest coalition of "peace" groups. One peace group which did

not support the demonstration was the Mational Committee for a Sane

Nuclear Pohcy, but William Price, -Vational Guardian reporter, noted

tbet "throughout the croid, banners appeared identifying participants

with local Sane chapters." One delegation estimated at 350 marched

behind a huge red banner lettered in gold: "Communist Party. Ner

Tork State Area" In the group mas Gas Hall, Communist Party

national chairman. Communist Part public relations head Arnold

Jobnson said frequent applause had come from onlookers and inter-

preted this as"approtal of the open paricipating of the party in the

political life of the country." Such participation, he said, marked the

end of McCarthrism (Sational Guardian, Apr. 22. 1961, P. 1) -

A Jeatiet distriouted at the rally. and pablished by the C.S. Com-

mittee To Aid the National Liberation Eront of South Vietnam (Bor

C, Oid Chelsea Station, New Fork, I.I.). said the following:

•The C.S. Committee to Aid the Natiozal Liberation Front oi South Vietam

vizes you to show foar opposition to the G.S. Goterment's eggression by ef-

pressing your support for the Tiecaamese Deoples feet in

defense of their

Lbertz. The time has come to decide chica side ron are on !!! The USCAYLE-SY

misbes to help gire the Vietnamese XLF a roice in the Coited States and balleres

toat to be etective, the Peace Morement mast come out in sapport of the NLE.

The Peace Movement shonid work to soom that the rezl tenemy" of Americans

Is pot ta Vietam, but here in one oma contes.

Fat the New York rally Stokely Carmichael called Secretary of

Detense Robert S. MIc Tamara fz racist,

Secretary of State Dean

Rosa fa fool," and President Johnson a butcon." Milliam Pepper;

the author of "Children of Tietnam," called for an end to "the reig

of Lyndon Johnson" and proposed a national ticket of Martin Luther

King and Dr. Benjamin Spock. Horard Zian of Bosion Enirersity

Cited for "the mosi magnificent. elegant withdramal" from Tietnam,

with the bands plaring and "Bob Hope cracking jobes" (Washingion

Star, Apr. 16, 1967)-

Times Sqnare area. The folloming report appeared in the Jay-June

1967 issue of Black Mash, a black nationalist publication in New

Tork City:

Weet No! Blacka Pon't Go!" Waiting la Central Park for the Apil 25 mobiliza-

too farce to zet underar, the Harlem continent is spored making their mar

Coma Contral Park West. They Prodid not take the legai parade roate, but monia

HIH

53216 DocId:32397477 Page 18

---

## Page 19

61

THE NEW LEFT

but to "orient it toward* the revolutionary organization mhosa

close associate of Martin Luther King, viewed the April 15 action as

"the beginning of a mass movement against mass murder." He said

that the air of the new morement will be to get Johnson's troops out

of Vietnam br Christmas."

Jack Smith of the National Guardian asked the question: Is it

possible in the United States at this point to develop a mass, broad-

based anti-Tietnam war movement with the potential of seriously af

fecting gorernment decisions? His answer:

1 rear ago the enser moald bave been an immediate unqualided *no." Todas

the answer from some leaders in the antiwar struggle is a cautious, quallied

"perhaps". This response is forthcoming even though there may have been more

antimar action a fear ago, and the movement, on the surface, has been in de:

The next several montha will determine whether this year's more optimistic

prediction has substance. Part of the answer depends on whether there bas been

a qualitative change in the mood of the American people toward the mar. Parts

depends on the existing antiwar movement itself and whother it is able to capi?

talize on any such change (National Guardian, Apr. 4, 108T, D. 13).

I significant change in the approach of organizations such as tha

Students for a Democratic Society is that they no longer seek to ez-

press their disapproval of either the war or the Amorican societ

through mere sporadic protests, or "dropping out," or what they call

the "parliamentary games of liberals.

What they seek to do is develop a political awareness and move

from "nonpolitical protest to political resistanes." In order to do this

it believes that "alienated youths must be brought to understand that

their 'persona?' problems are collective the result of a society in

which man is increasingly distant from the decisionmaking process.

The cause for such distance, the New Left seems to be saying mor

and more, is the entire economic, social, and political structure o

"student power." The long range gonl is "not power so

this particalar class, but the derelopment of this class into a revol

tionary, force toat would work with other oppressed classes &

society" (National Guardian, "SDS Aim: To Bulla Revolutiona

Consciousness, dor. 15.1961

The national secretary of Smadents for a Democratic Society, Co

ory Calrert, said that "Te are working to build a guerrilla force

an urban environment. Te are actively organizing sedition" Em

State That& Wang a 3- T sets of Trees wit Some T

Left activists and sympathizers from

coast to coast.* * *so

sounded much more truculent than members of the Moscow-orient

Communist Party, T.S.d." He reported that Che Guevara's pier

was found on the walis of the ofices of radical newspapers and le

ming groups and that "His name cropped up in talks wheneva

Jer Left's current infatuation with direct action wus mention:

1747

53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 19

---

## Page 20

THE CIRCAGO CONTERENCE CA TET POLITICS

Inst anyone believe that the Ter Left's interest in American

potsics is limital to simply criticizing the retablienment and the

moss and standards of our society, the Jational Conference for New

Paties, waich took place in Chicag during the furat week of Septem-

ber 1957, shona be suficient to establish that criticism plars onir a

mit role in this Ter Loit's attacks

Gicago's Palmer House Hotel

mas the scene of a meeting

whia brought 2,000 delegates from throughout the country together

to seide trat political path the Jer Leit might prostabir take as it

appached the 196S elections. The groun contened on August 31, 1967,

fora meeting which may set the tone for radical activity for some time

to one. It teasy in a sense, the end of one phase of Jer Leit actirity

andhe beginning of another.

Psor to the meeting much discusion took place concerning future

possoilities for action, Writing in the Communist Worker, Carl

Bloke poted that i

linere is any clear consensus as toe conraption sets underray, it toald

be fat irbaterer for the morement takes nothing will be giren up. The

persepasts reject the calls to more 'Trom protest to polides." Elevtoral action,

tbegaaz, sbooid bore no ese oft the streets. If new pollacs is to mean anthing.

it is said, de will Incan more than the ballot bos and/or the picket line. (The

Frozter, Sept 3 IS5T, D. 1.)

"E la a position paper prepared prior to the Chicago meeting, fle

•W: 2 B. DaBois Clubs set forth its own approach. It stated that—

One the Inace of the 3d tichet on the ballet is expared then other work

piyie noierabes, and a peace ticket in the Democratic primary could be the

basisto: leeding e larger number of Demomade Toters to sapport & 3d presi-

dental dicket in Norember 1903, after Johnson is renominated. But if there is

no pade ticket to 1903 the voters against Jobason will bare Do place to go except

the SIP. ("em Politica for a Xerr Americz, 20 Approach to the 198S Elections,"

Te Forker, Aug. 20, 1001, D. 7.)

2 Stano. oi the 2,000 participants wanted to field a third party

Ecka in 1965, beaded perhaps by the Rer. Jarin Lnther King or Dr.

bezama spock. Others, homerer, expressed the riem that the whole

Electon process is a fraud and that ther should nos directir intolre

Themselres in it.

To key note address was giren by Dr. Fang. Re accused President

Johion of betraring people who supported him in 1961. "Tha

promise of a Great Society was shiptrecked of the coast of Asia on the

amsaul peninsula of Vietnam.

" he said. He denounced the war in

Feter and said that if it isn't ended by nesi rear all men of good

will must create a situation in which the 196T-65 elections are made a

referndum on the mar. The American people must hate an opportun-

ity to rote into oblivion those who cinnot detach themsires from

miliarism, those who lead us not to a ner morid bur drag us to the

Drinkot a deod world." (The Trashingion Star, Sept. 1, 1C0r.)

In bis address Dr. Spock said the United Staies should anneunce

69

53216 DooId:32397477 Page 20

---

## Page 21

72

THE TET LEFT

of the John Birch Society." Their rerolution, he said,

"is psycho-

idly anything about what they're for." (Yew York Times, Dept.

Jot all Vegroes found rhemseltes in agreement with the demands of

the militant black porter adrocates Joseph Dawson, son of Rep. Wil

said that "This is not a convention. This is

he Tes plead there it to say the yale he pie ur cing"

Erents, Sept_16, 196г.)

Prior to the Caicago meeting Professor Peretz wrote in the "New

Politics Jerrs" a warning of what might occur:

It is Dossible that Sears bence we shall be able to look back upon this national

contention as haring been a milestone in the maturation of a new American

•polites " = * But this contention tag also prove to be the burial grounds or:

our copes and programs and energies. It may become a footnote to history re-

cording not our triumed bar our missed opportunities. I fear we may look back

upon this contention"*" as being the place where the lefts engaged in mutual

ritaperation and in iratricide, where ideological absolution displaced both theory

and concrete analysis. (Qnoted ia Washington Star, Sept. 11, XOST.)

The plans for a third party ticket for 1968 never reached fruition

as a result of the internal wrangling evident at the conference, Jeffrey

I. Hodes analyzed this erent in thesa terms:

Drained br the Black Caucas, the sponsoring NCWP never was able to pursue

its original cbjectire: acceptance of a bing-Spock ticket for 1968. Support for

De. Bite dissipated River his opening night speech. He not only failed to fire

emotions but the black militants aod irhite radicals wrote him of as passe

Staughton Lynd azd Rennie Daris of SDS stated in a position paper that theyl

-chairocals refuse to condemo the chetto rebellion" and hence could not bach

Dr. King who had joined the moderate ciril rights leadership in condemning riot

nad the who indire or protote them. (The New Leader, Sept. 1I, 196%,)

In this analysis the role of the Students for a Democratic Societ

and other unirersity organizations is discussed:

* * SD3 and other mitersio groups believe radicalization means traz

forming society itselt. The real power, they contend, lies within corporation

media, cairersides, and the military. In addition, they claira elections are mani.

plative and ted to existing talue systems. Toting then, in SDS's lexicon, is

passire act that gires one a choice tetreen options provided by other the heig

of porterlessness SDS prefers to concentrate on local organizing in urban ghette

and carersides, on sarancing counter-communal institutions, on altering co

somers and stadents to the "system" and on radicalizing the poor.

Others in Chicago sharply difered with the SDS approach, Da

Kolodner of Berkeler's Jer Action Politics believes the Presidenc

the focus of American politics. Fle urged the ider that providing

third choice tridens the limits of national debate and threatens

existing order.

Isro clear-cut approaches emerged. The first called for local polte

action, organizing the ghettos and working class communities

opposing the war. the second, supported by New York and Calito.

delegations, proposed an independent national ticket, with candio.

to be selected br a national nominating convention next year.

the compromise which resulted came about in this way:

To aroid splitting the conrention, a premidnight caucus was held in a fe

attempt to iron out a corpromise berteen SDS and the Californians: Ma

Burnstein of Berkeler proposed backing the resolution on local organizis

1H 53216 DocId: 32397477 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SUBYERSIVE INFLUENCES IN RIOTS, LOOTING,

AND BURNING

PART 1

HEARINGS

BETOR3 TER

COMEITITEE ON UN-AMERICAN AOTIVITES

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MINELITE CONGRESS 32400

FIRST SESSION

11772

= OCTOBER 25, 23, 3L and 10Y830328 28, 1557

30431959202222213

Priated for the ase of the

Committze on Canteerican Letirides

TS COVERMONI PRESIDIG DESICE

83427

HH 53216 DocId:32397477 Page 22

For so by to Supposendent at Incas, U3 Coremant Printag Ollo

Fashion, D.C. 3012-213 55 8501

AFPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 10 Bus 1012

341

---

## Page 23

726 SUBTERSIVE INFLUENCES DI RIOTS, LOOTDIG, LTD. BURNING

Jayor Torty was a lembar of Congress in 1950 to 1954 and major

of Los Angeles since 196L

His tenure in the California Legislature in the mid-1930's gate him

an opportunity to study the subject of communism. Since that time,

the witness has maintained an interest in Communist actirities.

In enswer to s questzon concerning his opinion of underlying factors

which caused, the riots in the last few Jears, Mayor Torty replied:

I moald certainly say that one of the factors is the constant repetition of

subtersire propaganda, the agitation, and propagazda conducied by the Com-

munist Pats withia the tamerors of their hiscoric objective to break down

the respect for goverment, certainly for law and order, and to personalize, as

they always do, this objective mainly in the police oScer.

Asked it he beltered these riots hare bean spontaneous or planned,

the mayor said,"T think that there are some of both." He added:

I thint that the propaganda over the fears has been so constant and at times

Tery effectire

thin: there are sore riots where sabressive forces bare actually

planned"* " incidents that ther tonid bope woald spark a riot.

Mator Torty introduced an exhibit into the record, a pamphlet en-

titled "The Big Lie." The pamphlet, produced by the Los Angeles

city goverment, contained a Saort history of the charge of police

brutality over a period of 21 years or sirice 1916, by the Communist

The witness steted that law enforcement has been handicapped "by

the reinterpretation, really the remntig of the Constitution by the

Crited States Supreme Court * * *P He cited examples of the ej-

clusionary rule of evidence, the rules of search and seizure, and the

registration of known criminals

Jayor Yorty recalled that Lenin, in his writings, as early as 1902,

had made reierence to police brutality and noted that he knew of

no period in history where the campaiga against the police has been

The mayor mes asted it police brutality charges were made in bis

blame the police for the rioting,

cit daring the Waits tie rio replied at an his ra to ade it-

pleasant confrontation with Dr. Martin Luther King, who

persisted in arguing that the polica were to blame for the rioting. Then he trent

out and got before the cameras and perspapers and made that same charge.

I felt it nectary to ansier that change and to tell him that it was very unfair

for him to come out to Los Angeles aod try to blame the police for the rioting.

Mayor Torty then stated that be did not "know of any case where

en oficer has had to ba dismissed for brutality."?

The maror noted that there tere many people who made charges of

polica brutality bose motive tras to discredit the police department

and to carry on the so-called Communists struggle campaign to brenk

dorn respect for the larr enforcement officials and *

eventually

** * break down the ability of our Government to operate."

The Los Angeles mayor said taat:

Enfortonatels, the natare oi news is * *s usually negatire. The bizarre makes

more news than the ereryday hard work of lar enforcement

Mayor Torty saw a need for people to understand the Communist

Party and its apparatus He said :

HH 53216 DocId:32397477 Page 23

---

## Page 24

76S SUEYERSIVE INFITENCES A RIOIS, LOOTLIG, AND. BURNING

ness,

inadequate housing and education, poor health, and a mpriad of orber

social ills bared on porera and zacial discrimination to bear their lot in silence.

Their anger at the obrious isjastice of their plight and at the lack of massire

• programs mich would end porerty and racism mast be recogrized. So long as

people feel they bare nothing to lose, appeals to logie and reason will fail

The quesion is not, then, whether rioring is *compatible with the American

system of government, bat mrbetber the draerican syster of gorerament ins

been as flexible and as energetic as it should be in including all American exi

zens in the fraits of our societt. If me mere to take iramediate steps to end the

racial zap which condemns a disproportionate number of Negro citizens to

porerty and inadequate necessies of life, me would not have to rory abou

rioting.

The second question posed by the chairman is: "Whether or not Communise:

sincerely hare the interests of the Jegro at beart and Negroes therefore Can

accept them and work with them in their efforts to achiere fall equality in this

countrT."

In etery counter in maich there exists a poor and downtrodden group in the

population, the Communists hare foand their strength in that group. In etery

country that is, but the United States. The Communist Party has spent much

time and edort in wooing the Jegro population, all to no arail, Il anythine.

its appeal to the Tegro population in the United States has been less than

with any other group of citizens

Negro dazens do not want to change the American tray of life, The whole

history of Yegro efforts to secure equality is an indication that Negro citizars

desire, above all else, inclosion on an equal basis in American society.

There is litte evidence taat Commonists have any significant induence or

the ciril rigots morement. Their record is not one which inspires trast among

Negro citizens, and Negro citizens do not accept them and do not fork mita

them.

The National Urban League ielcomes this opportunity to comply mira a

request for informadon br & committee of the United States Congress. The

National Croan League, Inc, is a professional community serrice organization

committed to securing coual opportonities for Yegroes and other minorities

in all areas of American life. It is nonpartisan and interracial in its leadership

[The joint statement referred to on D. 767 folions :]

From: Poolie Relations Department, National Urban Leagne, 55 East 52nd

Street, Ter Tork: N.I. 10022, (212) 751-0302.

Contact: Goichard Parris.

The following is the text of a statement issued jointly by, Dr. Martin Luther

1 Philip Randolpa, Ror Willins, and Whitner AL. Ioung, Jr, on

Jaly 26, 195t, and released from the headquarters offices of the NAACE: 20

West 40th Street, New Tors Clor =

Derelopments in Newark, Detroit and other strife-torn cities toake it crystal

clear that the primary vicams of the riot are the Negro citizens. That thes

hare grate grierzaces of longstanding, cannot be denied or minimized. That

the riots hare nut contributed in any sabstantial measure to the eradication

of these jost complaints, is by not corions to all.

We are conident that the overrhelming majority of the Negro community

Joins us in opposition to violence in the streets Who is iritaout the necessittes

of life when the neighborhood stores are destrored and looted? Those children

are without milk because delmeries cannot be made? Tiho loses trages because

cê a breakdorn in craasportation or destruction of the place of employment?

Who are the dead, the injured and the imprisoned? It is the Negroes wao pay

and pay and pat, mbether or not they are indiridually intolred in the rioting.

And what for?

Killing, arson and looting are criminal acts and should be dealt with as such

Equally guilty are those mho incite. provoke, and call specifically for such action

There is no injustice which jastifes the present destraction of the Tegro com-

munity and its people.

We who hare fcught so long and so bard to achiere jastice for all Americans

bare consistently opposed tigence as a means of redress. Riots hare proced in

effectire, disruptire and bizhir damazing to the Jezro popalation, to the cirl

rights cause. and to the entire nation. Me call upon Testo citizens throughout

the nation to forezo the temptaxion to disregard the lat. This does not mean

MH 53216 Do0Id:32397477 Page 24

---

## Page 25

811 SUBTERSIVE AFLUENCES IT RIOIS, LOOTLIG, AID BERNIG

and to accentuate racial issues. The riots and disorders of the past 3 years clearly

highlight the zuccess of this Communist smeer cupaiza in popularizing the r

of "police brutality" to the point mbera it bas been accepted by mang indiriduals

baring no sEllation with or sympathy for the Communist morement.

So, we hare a pretty good authonty there. I tould say, certainly the

best in the world, on the effectiveness of this campaign against the

Another statement before the Appropriations Subcormittee, which

I am certain that you all recall, was made by air. Hooter on February

10, 1966. He said :

At a still bigher lerel, the natiocal headquarters of the parta, on August 15.

1965, instructed the soutbern Califorala party district to prepare articles concera-

ing the riots for early publication in The Torker, an east coast Communist news

paper. Special efforts mere to be roade to play up the "police brutality" angle.

Major portions of subsequent isses of The Porker and People's Torld. a rest

coast Communist perspaper, tere deroted to the uprising in Los Angeles and its

aftermath. Each article faithfally followed the line set by party headquarters.

Mr. McT urine Maror Torty, were police brutality charges made in

your city during the Watts riot?

Mayor Torn, Tes An attempt was made, of course, to blame the

police for the rioting. This led to my unpleasant confrontation with

Dr. Martin Luther King. We had almays welcomed him to our city on

previous occasions and tried to work with him in the field of ciril

rights. But, during the aftermath of the rioting, he rushed out to Los

Angeles and in a prirate meeting with some of his aides and our chief

of police, Mr. William Parker, he began to blame the police for the

L pointed out to him that the police department of Los Angeles I

un by a civilian commission; they are actually the head of the depart

ment. I also pointed out to him that three of the fire members were from

minority groups and, also, that one of the persons at the meeting with

Dr. Martin Luther Fing was the father of a member of the police

commission.

But he persisted in arguing that the police were to blame for the

rioting. Then he went out and got before the cameras and newspapers

and made that same charge. I felt it necessary to anser that charge

and to tell him that it was vert unfair for him to come out to Los

Angeles and try to blame the police for the rioting.

Mr. Mclura. Your exhibit, Mayor, and ramous items that we

have read in the Communist press orer the years indicate that many

charges of brutality hare been made against the police in Los Angeles,

as in the case of other cities.

Will you tell the committee whether or not ans police oficers in Los

Angeles, since you hate been mator, hare been dismissed for brutality?

Mayor TorTe. I don't know of any case where an officer has had to

be dismissed for brutality.

We, of course, intestigate etery charge that is made to us of police

brutalty, first within the deparment, and than I hare instructed our

cinzhan polce commission that it people are not satished with the

action of the department that they can ask the commission to hold a

hearing,

[ think the best erample of the big he technique was the case when

one of the newspapers in Los Angeles, not a Communist neispaper

but one that circulates only in the Jegro area, had a picture of tro

HY 53216 DocId:32397477 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SUBVERSIYE IYFLURICES IN RIOTS, LOOTING; AND BURNING 875

as well as to the anti-T.S. straggle of the people of the mrhole

Profia

"The American Jegroes' stragle is by no means isolated. They will for ever

receive bonadista sympathy and resolute support from the 700 million Chinese

people a 21s

PERLIE RADIO BROADCASI, JOLE 23, 1171:

"By its ferocity and its ruthless metaods in suppressing the Negro movement,

tbe Jobson adminiscaton has firen a profound lesson to more and more Afro

Apericana by negative example. Tols bas greatly hastened their awakening. On

the day Johnson made his speech, EL. Bap Brown, a young Negro leader who has

stood out prominendy in the carment stagsle, forceially and pointedly replied to

Johnson's threats when he saye a press conterence azd attended a rass meeting

in Tashingtor. Brown said that the black man has the immutable will to be tree

and bas no recourse but to rebel? He stressed that violence is necessary and

that the black people must get their guns because the white ralers "don't respect

atten trodere i ratin meet rellets the determiation of the

PERING RADIO EDITOZIAL COSOLENT D' ENGLISH ON DETROTT RIOT, JULY 30, 1967:

"The switt and vigorous spread oi the toro imerican people's armed struggle

azainst raciel oppression has thrown the White Elosse into complete confusiod.

Tres pres to the it that the US ming circles who appear to be foridable

are nO more than a paper tiger.

"The roariog flares in Detroit have sorred the US maling circles. * * **

It is the US ruling circles who are afraid of the Afro-American massey o*

ore and more Jer-inericons lare embarked on the road of combatting

counteresolationary riolence with zerolacionary riolence. This is what the US

gangsters lear most. " * * Il the people in the United States unite, the reto

lationary people of the world unite, zad together wage a common struggle, the

handial of reactionardes in the United Staces will be completely isolated and

besieged ring upon ring by the masses of the people thas accelerating the door

01 CS imperialism."

PERING RADIO BROADCAST, ACCEST 1, 197=

"stooges like Martin Lather King Issasd statements pablicly supporting the

Johnson administration's violence against the Afro-mericans, This at once

unmasked these champions of nonriolence for what they really are opponents

of the revolationary violence of the oppressed and supporters of the counter-

terolationary violence of the oppressors.

*Elorever, the level of political amaranese of the Afro-American masses is

dally rising and they bare come to reclize more clearly than ever the need to re

sist violence with riolence.

* * * Neither the US ruling circle's violent suppres

ston nor the humbag of zonviolence preached by Jartin Luther King and his

ilk can prerent the Airo American masses from taking the road of strugste by

riolence and promoting the Atro-American Lovement"

PENINS RADIO BROADCAST, AUGEST 7, 1957=

*Iyadon Johnson =* made a speech on 27 Joly calling for the intensifled

suppression ot the armed strugzle of Airo Americans*** and asked the Afro

prospinto, 10 be larabiding and responsible and to share in America's

*Ent wbat Liad of stuf is merican laz? Eriendrich [sic] Engels pointed ont

long ago that bougeois law is a whip' against the proletariat. * * * To the

iro Americans, such laws mean that they sanst put up with the privation of

mocopoly capitalism***. The broad secdons ol Afro-Americans and working

people in the Crited States must destroy soch lairs and smash the state apparatas

HH 53216 DocId:32397477 Page 26

---

## Page 27

910 SUBFERSIVE ITLUENCES I RIOIS, LODILIG, AND BURNAG

organizers prefents virtually the mbole of Harlen and the other New Tork

cheros from being organized into teneats cocacis right now. Moreover,

block

coracils frair based on bailing conzals motid ouer a natural basis for the

orponization of self-dejense = = ==

SPARTACIST, MAT-JE3B 19N P. 5:

*The illusion of non-violence spread by biaz zad others is a criminal dis-

arming of black people, and is consisent with the role of these leaders' as agents

of the porter structure. The zuotement must scrap these illusions once and for

all and begia to organize the l'egro Irople to defend themselrea from violence.

SPARTACIST, JAT-ILSE 195T, P. SA:

"It is the duty of a rerolacionary organization to interrene ishera possible to

Bire these outbusts [riots] political direction."

HARLED RIOTS, 1954

SPARTACIST, JUARY-VERREARE 195S, PP. 1 5=

*On this basis Spasticist stated eart, la July

the bourgeois state now

prepares to ight openly in the streets throngh its police arm against the resur

gence of the straggie." This prediction was stridlagit confirmed on July 18 and

the days that followed as mate adver mare of armed, specially trained elita

solice the Tactical Patrol ForceSwept tarough dartem indiseriminately beat

og and terrorizing all who crossed their paths, when the mood of the ghett

made it clear that zoe killing of 15-rear-old James Powell by an off-duty police

Discer woald not go unprotested

"James Robertson, SpasTacIsT editor, described the role of the cops in creating

the riots and, in reference to attempts being ade to blame the riots on Commu-

rist, said

that 'onfortunately there aren't rapy Reds in Harlem nor-but

There will be?"

REFOLUIIONARE ACETON JOYEDIENT (RAJI)

2811 TY. Diaraoed Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

Winter 1963

From the Ran Manitesto of 1064: "Pill mas owcially organized * *'* by

Ato Americans who farored Robert E. TIllars and the concept of organized

*** ONE PURPOSE-To tree blach people trom the universal slare

master * ** ONE ALI-To derelop black Deople through struggle to the highest

attainment possible. ONE DESIT I- To follor in the spirit of black revolu-

"and to create a new forld free of colonialism, racism, imperial-

Ista, exploitation, and national oppression."

In hearings beiore the subcommictee of the Committee on Appropriations,

Honse of Representatives, op February 16, 1951, J. Edgar Hoover, Director of

the e3x, ceserioed the Revolutionary Action Movement as "a Negro organiza-

Eon *** dedicated to the overchrom of the capitalist system in the United

States, by violence if necessary, and ibs replacement by

oriented toward the Chinese Communist Interpretation of Mlardsm-Leninisma.**

Less than 50

Precise membership Agnes cancot be stated owing to the clandestine nature

of the organization. Borerer. it sboald be potel that RAVI does not seek mass

rembership. Instead, it operates on the principle of a tight-knit, highly selectire

inner circle of leaders who accomplish thels nims throngh infiltration and sub

Tersion of otber Airo American groups, through tronts, and through use of Negro

teenage gangs schooled in urban guerzilla mariaca

RIN has nits in Philadelphia (bome base), Boston, Cleveland, Chicago,

Detroit, and New Tork City.

There are three levels of membership in the RAJI organization: (1) fel

organizers, (2) actire merobers, and (3) associate members.

N4 50216 DocId 32397477 Page 27

---

## Page 28

TESTIMONY US GERALD WAYNE KIRK

2X-704

HEARINGS

BIORE THE

SUBCOMAITTE TO INVESTIGATE THE

ADNINISTRATION OF THE INTERVAL SECURITY

ACT AND OTHER INTERNAL SECURITY LAWS

COMUTTTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

UNITED STATES SENATE

MOTET*-FIRST CONGRESS

SECONO SESSION

PART 2

MARCEL 10, 1910

Priated for the rise of the Committee on the Judictary

U.S, GOYZRYYPYI PRINTING OFFICE

TASICTETON : 1979

HH 53216 Do0Id:32397477 Page 28

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date win

341

---

## Page 29

152

• couplo of other pooplo there with us, but I can't remembor exnctly

who,

Mr. Nonpal. What was the outcome of that discussion?

Ronnio Davis, for example.

Mr. Norpel. His name came up in the discussion?

Mr. Kirk. Right.

Mr. NoRpoL He did not participto in the discussioni

Mr. Kinx. No; he did not. He had other things to do in othor parts

of the conforence, but le was mentioned as a porson who was vory,

vory close to the position of the Communist Party, U.S.A., on almost

every montter that would come up.

with am Dina, core, Contin Davis Yes involved, yed toply,

Jun's request, Davis asked mo to work for hum, Davis.

So, you can see that Davis, even though his rhetoric may be a bit

what anyone may say, I know for a fact that he, Davis, could not have

traveled to North Vietnam und other places in the Red-bloe coun

tries without having very,

very close contacts with the Communist

Purty, D.S.A. It is not possible to do that unless you do have elose

Mr. Norper. Was this meeting in Black's room to which you ra-

ferred construed as a party meeting, a party caucus?

Mr. KiRK Yes.

Mr. Norpl. In other words, what developed there was an assess-

ment of the party's position and particularly within the black caueus

reinting to the National Conference for New Politics

DIr.

518% 2 es

Mr. Norper, All right, would you continue, please?

Mr. Kinx. Well, I can't remember whether it was that day of the

next one, we were on the floor of the convention mating various notes

and suggestions and the caucus had coalesced by that time. Lt wes, In

our opinion, in very good shape. We had people who had been involved

in SNCC, people who had been involved in KAM, people who hac

seen involved in various things around the country:

Who eventually, I think, beeune members af the Bluck Panther Prety,

becuse there was always a movement of personnel through these vari-

ous organizations. So Ive started to take these ynrious votes and ronl

ized that tho black cancus' position was even better thnn we had

believed at first, and we did eventually in that convention move it to

quite a few of the party's positions wanted on the war and on the

party's definition of racism, and things of that sort. We got just about

everything we wanted, and that is borne out by the fact that the pio-

cations and the statements that came from NCNP, especially on the

decision to have the ticket of Spock and ling which were basic party

53216: DooId:32397477 Page 29

---

## Page 30

153

positions thoro. wore quite i fow peoplo who beloved thoy wore rent

rovolutionarios who din't bellevo it was necessary to have a ticket or

& presidential campaign of Spock and King, but the party believed it

was absolutely necessity because it grew out of the dialeetient position

Mr. Noxeet Aro you saying that Benjamin Spock and Sharth

Iuthor King wero chosen for a presidentit ticket by tho Communist

Party, U.S.A. in fuet?

bit: Mans. Woll, tho Communist Purty, U.S.A, decided thnt those

were the two of the best people that the party position could more

forth outy, ou are,

You ere not implying then that oither Spock of Ming

were or are members of the Communist Party!

Mr. Krus. No.

MIr. Noupet. You are not amplying that 1

Mr. Kurs. 1 doubt thoy would hovo to be.

Mr. Kas. That is true,

Mr. Nourer. That the whites predominnted or hold the injority of

votin: pass ints true.

mr. Ank. Well, ull through the conference or convention there sus

a theme that was promoted by the Communist Party, U.S.A, years

ago, that because of tho institutional racism in America and all those

terns they threw out, & convention like the NCNP had to do some-

thing that would negute the fact that blacks didn't have as many votes

as whites, and so one of the positions of the Communist Party mem-

bers tas to support anyone in the black causus and anyhere else in

the convention who wanted to change that numerical system: I, my-

self, did not get to go to the final meeting at which the black caueus

voted, you know, on the specifics, but I was there when they cume back

to the convention, because they had leit, and there was some arrange

ments made, I am not sure of the specifics or the numbers but there

was some arrangement made where the votes of the black caucus ivere

more than they would have been simply on the basis of numbers, per se.

Mr. Norper. Would you continue on then with what happened at

Mr. Kirk. Well, there were several speeches amply covered by nll

he press. the one speech that struck me was by James forman, whe

had been on informant off the recoru, plense.

Senator TruTaroNs. Off the record.

(Discussion oft the rocord.

Senator LiTuryonD. Back on the record.

NIr. NOrPe. Are you speaking of James Forman?

Mr. Kms. Right. As you kaow he had been involved in SNCC and

HH 53216

DocId: 32397477 Page 30

---

