# docid-32307103

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10243

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4546-2ND NR 11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/29/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

MR, MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO,

REORGANIZATION, LEADERS, ASSOC, POLIT, PR, COSTA

RICA, VENEZUELA, US

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

HW 45937

DocId: 32307103 Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

Rev.

72-15-561

AND FIELI

ARVISED

RI

SLIp

DATE

ENCIES

ICES

OUT:

des

84

Transmit the following

FBI.

Date:

5/29/62

CONFIDENTIAL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

A IRMA IL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-92704)

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-4256)

SUBJECT:

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL FUEBLO

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED IS - CUBA

(Revolutionary Movement of the Feople) (MRP)

HEREIN IS UNCSASSTFTED

& SHOWN

Emie

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of a letterhead

memorandum, together with nine copies of an informant

evaluation memorandum dated and captioned as above.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is being

classified Confidential as it contains highly confidential

Information regarding the organizational operations of an

anti-CASTRO organization operating inside Cuba.

(KU)

SJ T-1 1s PSI

leader of

the Cuban exile anti-CASTRO unity group in Puerto Rico known

as the Comite Coordinador de Organizaciones Democraticas

Cubanas en Puerto Rico (CCODC), which organization is made

up of eighteen

anti¿CASTRO groups in Puerto Rico, Including

the MRP. C

Classhited by

(3-Bureau (Enc

Declassify on: AnRt/30/877

min

NAL FILED

IOWFO (Enc.

5-San Juan

1105-38585

(105-4256)

DECLASSIFICATION

(1-105-5287) (MANOLO RAY)

Anti-FIDEL CASTRO Activities) IN THIS DOCUMENT JM 10-2/-97

{3-134-607A11 (21)

me can 165-107224 tere.

101- 843341 ( camuRsaRi

© 0e bea

97-4646

(2.u)

Copy lo: Cin/Diate/RMO,

DIA; DiA (Deze)

ONI/OSI/ACSI

Dato

NOT RECORDED

PETUN

1g 1952

Approved O JUN a 24962 Charge

Sent

CONFIVENTIAL

10704-

LOTHER 4

HW

45937 DocId: 32307103 Page 2

---

## Page 3

I.

SJ 105-4256

HUMBERTO ESTEVE-ABRIL, mentioned in the attached

letterhead memorandum is the brother of SJ I-l. He is presetly

in India on a private business assignment not connected with

any anti-CASTRO movement.

Local dissemination of this letterhead 1s being

made to ONI, INIC, OSI and INS.

Careful consideration was given to the source

concealed and a I symbol was utilized

only in those instances

where the identity of the source must be concealed.

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45937 DocId:32307103 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONF DE

UNITE

STATES

DEPARTMENT OF JU

ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Post Office Box 4312

san Juan 21, Puerto RICO

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED

May 29, 1962

HEREIN 1

DCLASSITIED

EXCEPT RAERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

DECLISSIFIED BY SP8 MAC/KSR

ON 5-14-94

MOVIM IENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(Revolutionary Movement of the peojle) (MRP)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Glassified by

Declassify on:

NOR 4/28/84

On May 28, 1962, Sj I-1, a Cuban exile leader

In Puerto Rico, advised that during the previous week

highly confidential information was received in Miami from

the underground leaders of the Movimiento Revolucionario del

Pueblo (Revolutionary Movement of the People) (MRP) inside

cuba designating the following individuals as the responsible

coordinators in exile of the MRP:

1. Dr. ANTONIO FERNANDEZ NUEVO, Miami;

2. SAUL DIAZ, Miami; and

3. MANOLO RAY, Puerto RiCo.

Fourassistants were named to assist the afore-

mentioned coordinaors, they are:

1.: MARIA CRISTINA HERRERA, Miami;

•2. EUGENIO CISNEROS, Puerto Rico;

3. FRANCISCO LEON, Miami; and

4. JOAQUIN GODOY, Miami.

{4)

(f21)

SJ T-I stated that as of May 28, 1962, MANOLO

RAY hadnot decided whether to accept his appoin

one of the three leaders of the MRP in exile.

(914)

SJ T-l stated that the MRP

organization

• in exile

has been split amongst its members as to who is the spokesman

d, (2)

CONFI

ITIA

ENCLOSURE

92-45126

NW 45937 DocId: 32307103 Page 4

---

## Page 5

RE MRP

CONF I

NTIAL

(

SJ T-1 stated that he does

not believe that

the information seù forth in the clued Hidani newspaper

artice is correct, buü is 15 is, he,as a leader of the

cuban exiles in Puerto Rico, will not accept MaNCio RAY

as the recognized leader of Cuban exiles.

so In1 further

stated "that 90% of the Cuban exiles in Puerto Rico" do not

agree with the political philosophy of RAy and will neves

work with him.

Ke noted that the exile feeling toward

R4Y in Miami is the same an lo Puerto Rico in this regara.

Is I/conninued That "1s the Unlted States

Goverment has sélected MANORs RAY as the spokesman for

the cuban exile movercot,

then the United States has mde

a big mistäked)sT toiladded that MANOTO RAY 0a0005 be

fonced upon the Cuban axiles

as their leader as the exiles

will not be forced into accepting a person they dislike and

distrust. The source added that if the United states Govern~

ment sincerely feels chat MiNoRo RAY is the man who can unite

one Cuban exile organizations under

one Leaders then the

United States Goverinenü has either been mistorormed about

RAY

che United States Government has

information

regarding Ray which

che cuban exise leaders

ic not have in

their possession.

Ine May 29s

I962 edicion of The San Juan Star,

a local san juen dally Engliah language newspaper, carried

an arcicle scacing chao MaNca (MANCIO) RAY had denied

published reposts that he had been named the leader of the

Cuban exile movements.

RAT savised the newspaper on

May 28, 1962 that a story appearing in the Miami Herald

wes

"as far as I know completely false"

San Juan

Scar articie continued that the

Merald (Miant) story has

bean downed by a

United States Stace. Department spokesmen.

This document contalos neither recommendations

not to be distributed

outside your

agency.

-3-

CONFIDESNIAL

NW 45937 DocId:32307103 Page 5

---

