# docid-32292156

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10432

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1396-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/30/1954

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

EB, ESCAPE, CUSTODY, WHEREABOUTS, PENDING,

INACTIVE STATUS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

- RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/26/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32292156

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.yt

DATE: 11-14-2017

sassination Records Collection det of 1592 tAuSe

2107 Note).

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

August 30, 1954

Director, FBI

2-1396

Legat, Mexico City

97-12

EDWARD BROWDER, JR., Was.

REGISTRATION ACT

-10

Rerep SA ROLE L. LARSON dated at Mexico, D. F.,

6/25/54.

It is advised that subsequent to subject's escape

from the custody of Mexican Immigration authorities on June 16,

1954, no information has come to the attention of this office

concerning his possible whereabouts and activities. Mr. DEMETRIO

FLORES FAGOAGA, Chief of Investigative Section of

the Ministry of

Government, has advised that intensive investigation in an effort

to locate him has been completely without results.

Since it is not known if the Bureau Is interested in

active investigation by this office to locate the subject this

matter is being placed in a pending-inactive status JACB to be

reactivated in the event the several informants of this office

who might obtain information concerning the subject develop any.

information concerning his whereabouts.

In view of its administrative nature no local dissem-

ination is being made of the above.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 10 - 2

(JFK)

-PENDIN

CC Legat, >ep

9-17-54

RECORDED-127

2-1396-12

SEP 3

1954

DocId: 32292156

Page 2

---

