# docid-32989777

## Page 1

File #:

02- NF-1057

Serial Scope:

I thre 6

E

---

## Page 2

NRS74 MA CODE

P? MITEL 5-2-75 MST

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

PER SOMAL.

AI

SEN STUDY

(52-116395)

noc

CAPTIONED MATIER PERTAINS IO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEIS TO SIUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPTRATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH ORK OF THEST COMMITIRES, STAFF MEMPERS MAY SEEK

IO INTERVIS! CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYSES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITIRE (SSO) STAFE HAS

INTERVIDUED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES. AND IT IS ANTIGIPATED

THAT MANY WOPE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACIED..

IYE. FRI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTED

AND VE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT IO IME. FBI. HOWEVER, "E

DO HAVE AN DBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

MEIHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

Kart

INHA

62-10571

•SEARCHED

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED

-FILED:

MAY 2 1975

FBI-NORFOLK

i put get

HW 55195 DocId: 32989777 'Page 2

Aste.

Boggle

---

## Page 3

PAGE, TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION HI TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY'VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, ME SHOULD

3E INSTRICTED TO CONTACI. LEGAL COUNSEL, FEIME, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE., II IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTICTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDÚRE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR 'OFFICE. HOWEVER; CONTACT WITH IME LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

HOLD

HH 55195

DocId: 32989777 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NRO74 WA CODE

PM NITEL 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PER SONAL. ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC

TION "ITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEVED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACIED•

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAI SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

....

- 1:51-1

INDEXED...

MAY 21975

FBI-NORFOLK

Tyle

HH 55195 DocId: 32989777 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED, SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR -

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYSENT, HE SHOULD

PE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE, HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAG.

END

HOLD

HN 55195 DooId:32989777

Page

5

---

## Page 6

NRE36 MA CODE

5: 02PM NITEL 5-20-75 PAW

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, ITS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1979.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACT OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING BACK IO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PURLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHO CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHA MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED.

END

62-1057-2

SEARCHED.

SERIALLED MOM FILED

- INDEXED

MAY 3 0 191

FEI - NORFOLK

AHH 55195

DocId: 32989777 Page 6

---

## Page 7

N9E36 MA CODE

5:909N MITEL 5-29-75 PALI

IO ALL IÇAOS

FROM DIRECTOR, (62-115395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY : .75.

RERUIEL MAY ?, 1975.

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SFLECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACI, YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION. :

IN ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENIATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE TELEPHOMICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

I! A PARIICULAR OFFICE DURING 1974.

IN HANDLIMA SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA TIDIS

OF REPRECENTATIVE BY CHOW OF CREDENTIALS OM PERSONAL CONTACT 03,

IF IELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING: BACK TO COMMITTEE.

INLESS INFOOMATION. IS OF A PURLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OPTAIN FRIMO CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPOLYING

ANY

INFORMATION. FRIHO MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL!

INFORMATION

FURNISHED

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 7

62-1057-2

SEARCHED

SERIALIZE

_INDEXED_

_ FILED.

MAY 2 0 1975

ABI; NORFOLK

- 42

ASte St

---

## Page 8

MR 922 WA CODE

3:35PM NITEL. 6-13-75 VLJ

IO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116464).

PERSONAL ATTENTION

HOUSTUDY T5.

62-1017

REBUTELS MAY 2, 2D, 1975; "SENSTUDY 75."

BUFILE 62-116464 AND CODE NAME "HOUSTUDY

75" DESIGNATED

FOR ALL MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE SELECT COMMIT

TO STUD'Y

GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WIIH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES:

AND BUREAU'S HANDLING OF MATTERS PERTAINING THERETO.

USE

THIS FILE NUMBER AND CAPTION FOR MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE

COMMITTEE AS SEPARATE FROM SENSTUDY 75 FOR MATTERS RELATING

TO SENATE COMMITTEE.

END

62-1057-

‹ SEARCHED

_ INDEXED

SERIALIZED

_ FILED

JUN 131Y/S

FBI - NORFOLK

HN 55195 DocId:32989777. Page 8

ASA PI

---

## Page 9

NR022 WA CODE

3:36PM NITEL 6-13-75 VLJ

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116464)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

HOUSTUDY 75.

REBUTELS MAY 2, 2A, 1975, "SENSTUDY 75."

BUFILE 62-116464 AND CODE NAME "HOUSTUDY 75" DESIGNATED

FOR ALL MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

AND BUREAU'S HANDLING OF MATTERS PERTAINING THERETO. USE

THIS FILE NUMBER AND CAPTION FOR MATTERS RELATING TO HOUSE

COMMITTEE AS SEPARATE FROM SENSTUDY 75 FOR MATTERS RELATING

TO SENATE COMMITTEE.

END

62-1857-3

SERIA:

Juiprises

NW 55195 DocId: 32989777 Page 9

---

## Page 10

AR D01 RA CODE

111SAM IRGENT AUGUST 27, 1975 BU!

IO: DIRFCTOR,

FBI

NOR FOLK

FROM :

BALTIMORE (56-3 127)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

62-1057

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU TEL, AUGUSI ?, 1975, AND BUREAU TEL IO

ALBANY, AUGUST 26, 1975. "

LATTER TELETYPE ADVISED OF FOLLOWING:

INQUIRIES MADE OF BUREAU BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

(SSC) CONCERNING BELOW-LISTED FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES SUGGESIS

THEY MAY BE INTERVIEWED BY SSC STAFF. WHILE SUBJECT OF

INTERVIEWS HAS NOT BEEN DISCUSSED BY SSC, INTERVIEWS WILL

LIKELY PERTAIN TO IHESE -FORMER EMPLOYEES' DUTIES WHILE IN

THE INTERNAL SECURITY AND/OR SUBVERSIVE CONTROL SECTIONS AND

MAY ALSO RELATE IO THE FORMER BUREAU'S INVESIIGATIONS OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., COMMUNIST INFLUENCES IN RACIAL

MATIERS AND RELATED MATTERS. SET OUT BELOW ARE. LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES OF THESE FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TÓ RE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

62-1057-

11.60-11.00

8/27/25 d Corter

step conte

SEARCHED

SERIALIZ: D

AUG 2% 1975

SAc

HH 55195 DoOId:32989777 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE TWO.

STAFF. THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAT IN THE EVENI THEY ARE

INTERVIEWED AND DURING COURSE OF, SAME, QUESTIONS ARE ASKED

WHICH RELATE TO SENSITIVE, BUREA!! OPERATIONS (SOURCES,

METHODS AND TECHNIQUES, ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS, AND THIRD

AGENCY RULE, INCLUDING IDENTITIES OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIFS) , THEY MAY REQUEST AN FRI AGENI BE PRESENI. BUREAU

WILL PROVIDE AGENT ON REQUEST OF INTERVIEWEE. AS A PRELUDE

IO INTERVIEW, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY,, AFTER BEING CONTACTED

BY SSC STAFF, CONTACI. BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL: DIVISION BY

COLLECI CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION IO ASSIST HIM, INCLUDING

ORLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED

FBI EMPLOYEE.

IT IS EMPHASIZED THAI BUREAU'S OFFER. OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK BUT IS DONE AS

COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION. CONTACIS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES. TO' BE

HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENI IHIS NOT

FEASIBLE. FOR JUSI CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULIS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

PUREAU BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE

NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 11

11

---

## Page 12

PAGE THREE

TO OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBI HEADQUARTERS.

RE FORMER FBI EMPLOYEE JAMES FÖ BLOND, 4310 ROSEDALE

AVENUE, BETHESDA, MARYLAND, 20014.

INQUIRY IN VICINITY OF BLAND RESIDENCE AUGUST 26, 1975,

REVEALS JAMES F. BLAND ON VACATION AT WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA,

DATE OF RETURN IO BETHESDA, MARYLAND, NOT. KNOWN. ME. BLAND

CAN RE CONTACTED THROUGH HIS DAUGHTER, MRS. MARY LYNN WILDING,

105 RONDANE PLACE, WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA, TELEPHONE NUMBER

804-564-9477, HER HUSBAND'S TELEPHONE NUMBER BEING 229-0060.

IF NOT AT AROVE, MR. BLAND MAY BE CONTACTED IHROUGH HIS SON,

ATTORNEY ROBERI BLAND, WILLIAMSBURG AREA TELEPHONE NUMBERS

229-6381 OR 229-3770.

LEAD :

NORFOLK

WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA

IMMEDIATELY CONTACT JAMES'F. BLAND PER INSTRUCTIONS

•IN RE PUREAU TEL, AUGUST 26, 1975.

END

JME FBI NE /CLP.

NH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 12

---

## Page 13

AR 001 BA CODE

1113AM URGENT AUGUST ?7, 1975 Bl

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

NOR FOLK

FROM: BALTIMORE (66-3127)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

• RE BUREAU TEL, AUGUST 2, 1975, AND BUREAU TEL TO

ALBANY, ANGUST 26, 1975.

LATTER TELETYPE ADVISED OF FOLLOWING:

INQUIRIES MADE OF BUREAU BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

(SSC) CONCERNING BELOW LISTED FORMER FRI EMPLOYEES SUGGESTS

THEY MAY BE INTERVIEWED BY SSC STAFF. WHILE SUBJECT OF

INTERVIEWS HAS NOT BEEN DISCUSSED BY SSC, INTERVIEUS WILL

LIKELY PERTAIN TO THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES* DUTIES WHILE IN

THE INTERNAL SECURITY AND/OR SUBVERSIVE CONTROL SECTIONS AND

MAY ALSO RELATE TO THE FORMER BUREAU'S INVESTIGATIONS OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., COMMUNIST INFLUENCES IN RACIAL

MATTERS AND RELATED MATTERS. SET OUT BELOW ARE LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES OF THESE FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY

CONTACIED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE

: SSC

62-1057-

FEARED.

HUG:: 1975

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE TWO

STAFF. THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAT IN THE EVENT THEY ARE

INTERVIEVED AND DURING COURSE OF SAME, QUESTIONS ARE ASKED

WHICH RELATE TO SENSITIVE BUREAU OPERATIONS (SOURCES,

METHODS AND TECHNIQUES, ONGOING INVESTIGATIONS, AND THIRD

AGENCY RILE, INCLUDING IDENTITIES OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES), THEY MAY REQUEST AN FBI AGENT BE PRESENT. BUREAU

WILL PROVIDE AGENT ON REQUEST OF INTERVIEWEE. AS A PRELUDE

TO INTERVIEW, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING CONTACIED

BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU*S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM, INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION. ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSO WORK BUT IS DONE AS

COOPERATIVE GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION. CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE

HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS NOT

FEASIBLE FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE

NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD

H# 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 14

---

## Page 15

PAGE THREE

TO OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBI HEADQUARTERS.

RE FORMER FBI EMPLOYEE JAMES F. BLAND, 4316 ROSEDALE

AVENUE, BETHESDA, MARYLAND, 20014•

INQUIRY IN VICINITY OF BLAND RESIDENCE AUGUST 269. 1975,

REVEALS JAMES F. BLAND ON VACATION AI WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA,

DATE OF RETURN TO BETHESDA, MARYLAND, NOT KNOWN.

MR. BL. AND

CAN BE CONTACTED THROUGH HIS DAUGHTER, MRS MARY LYNN WILDING,

165 RONDANE PLACE, WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA, TELEPHONE NUMBER

804-564-9477, HER HUSBAND'S TELEPHONE NUMBER BEING 220-0060.

IF NOT AT AROVE, MR. BLAND MAY RE CONTACIED THROUGH HIS SON,

ATTORNEY ROBERT BLAND, WILLIAMSBURG AREA TELEPHONE NUMBERS

229-6381 OR 229-3770.

LEAD:

NOR FOL K

WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA

IMMEDIATELY CONTACT JAMES F. BLAND. PER INSTRUCTIONS

IN RE BUREAU TEL, AUGUST 26, 1975.

END

JMF FBI NF CLR

TH 55195 DocId: 32989777 Page 15

---

## Page 16

NR MD7 NE CODE,

4:55 PM URGENT AUGUST 27, 1975 LLB

TO DIRECT OR

FROM NORFOLK (62-1057)

SE NSTUDY 75•

RE PALIIMORE TELETYPE TO BUREAU, AUGUST 27, 1975:

ON AUGUST

27, 1975., FORMER FBI EMPLOYEE, JAMES F. BLAND,.

CONTACIED IHROUGH HIS DAUGHTER, WILLIÄMSBURG, VIRGINIA, AND

WAS ADVISED OF CONTENIS OF REFERENCED TELETYPE.

BLAND STATED HE HAS BEEN. IN WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA, FOR

PASI SIX TO FIGHT WEEKS ASSISTING IN BUILDING COTTAGE WHICH IS

FAMILY PROJECT WITH CHILDREN. BLAND STATED THAT WHEN CONTACTED

BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC), HE WILL CONTACT BUREAU'S

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION. HE HAS NOT BEEN CONTACTED TO DATE.

END

OH DXXX HO DE NE DID YOU JUST RECEIVE OUR NP BOT URGENT?

1959-5

LER FBI NR

parched

Sertalized_

Indexed

Filed--

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

43%

F BI

Date:

8/27/75

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

Via

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

URGENT

(Precedence)

TO:

FROM :

DIRECTOR, FBI

LER

SAC, NORFOLK (62-1057)

SENSTUDY 75.

RE BALTIMORE TELETYPE TO BUREAU, AUGUST 27, 1975.

ON AUGUST 27, 1975, FORMER FBI EMPLOYEE, JAMES F. BLAND,

CONTACTED THROUGH HIS DAUGHTER, WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA, AND

WAS ADVISED OF CONTENTS OF REEERENCED TELETYPE.

BLAND STATED HE HAS BEEN IN WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA, FOR

PAST SIX TO EIGHT WEEKS ASSISTING IN BUILDING COTTAGE WHICH IS

FAMILY PROJECT WITH CHILDREN. BLAND STATED THAT WHEN CONTACTED

BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC), HE WILL CONTACT BUREAU'S

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION. HE HAS NOT BEEN CONTACTED TO DATE.

Serialize i

Indexed

Elled

Approved:

10/198

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 17

Sent

455

SAC de

_M Per Lo

---

## Page 18

1R 033 MA CODEI

7:?5PM 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62- 116395)

PF.R SONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBITEL MAY 2, 1975.

PIRPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE IMAI

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES. TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECI TO THE FBI;

AND (2). SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING. TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, IHE BUREAU FREQUENILY LEARNS FROM IHE SSC

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARF BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACI THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

• POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

NH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 18

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

62-1052-6

INDEXED.

ELLED

SEP

4 1975

€EIS NORFE

ASA Goe

---

## Page 19

PAGE INIO

INTERVIE", HE MAY CONTACI THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS IOLD(I)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUI IHAT IHE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) IHAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING IO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN. INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES: AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECI ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEWEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE.

NEARRY, ALTHOUGH, NOT ACTUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS IQ PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS.

THE CONSULIANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 19

---

## Page 20

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER. EMPLOYEES. PROSPECIIVE INTERVIEWEES

SHOULD BE IOLD THAI, IF THEY'

DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACI EITHER PERSONALLY CIF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGION, D. CO) OR RY COLLECT CALL, IME

ASSISTANI DIRECIOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O: CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE

WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

• FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTAIION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM.. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

HOLD PLS

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 20

---

## Page 21

NR033 WA CODE

7:25PM 9/4/75 NITEL AUN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENST UDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE IO (1) REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI:

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE|BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEW BY THE SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

62-1052-6

INDEXED.

SEARCHED_

SERIALIZED _

SEP

4 1975

FEI - NORFOLK

HH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 21

---

## Page 22

PAGE TWO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACI THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD (1)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUT | THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAI THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOT REQUIRED TO ANSWER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEULES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOT ACTUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD

QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS, THS

CONSULTANT DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WIL

NO LONGER PROVIDE

NH 55195 DocId:32989777 Page 22

---

## Page 23

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEVEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAT, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY CIF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGTON, DO CA) OR BY COLLECT CALL, THE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W= Ro

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD, NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING TO CURRENT AND.

FORMER EMPLOYEES•

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENTS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

HOLD PLS

1H 55195 DocId: 32989777 Page 23

---

