# docid-32182962

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10237-10172

RECORD_SERIES: PX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1529-129, 130, 131

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ALBERT, JOHN M.

TO: SAC, PX

TITLE:

DATE: 05/15/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECT:

LHO, INFORMANT, ADVICE, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/18/1994

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

JFk Acts (2)

COMMENTS:

INC 2 MEMO

NW 45170

DocId: 32182962

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

BAO, TRONIR (200-1383)

FROM

aa voce ne dines

SI DATE MANCA

: SUBJECT:

13 n 12103

Edontity of Pote

Agent to

PK 633c8

4/32/36

H3le Where

Fonates

284-023A

So sas dvone intontáce costrinod in shis

maranon is dausaminatod to cutaidy agoneies;

gawe

8hosâd ha

to protect

tho Kentity of nonnor

PRANCESED 1318382A

EMMA 110S

г01G 488023

OTHER 4

100÷9303

3942249

39044270

309-0048

206+383

134-370

200x 0272

20841529

TAlebs

(7)

MALL INFORMATION CONTI INED

HERE IN IS UNOLAS

DATELL

SFANChED

MAY 15 1964

22s rao3uN

NN 45170: DocId: 32182962 Page 2:

105--1529-129

---

## Page 3

PX:100-3353

DETAILS:

PCM

The informant advised that the PCM continues

be very quiet in regard to political matters. He said one

notable event that happened came about because of the cam-

paign that was going on for union positions in the union

elections that took place on April 19, 1964. It seemed

that FRANCISCO MURRIETA, who was the candidate for treasurer

on the non-Communist ticket met one. of

union members

the pro-Communist

FRANCISCO, BOJORQUEZ in a bar and in the ar-.

gument that followed, MURRIETA knocked BOJORQUEz down and

broke his leg.

A few days later AVELINO MORENO SOTO and

LUIS BOJORQUEZ charged that MURRIETA and lis followers had

viciously

assaulted

BOJORQUEZ and sought to make' a political

issue of.

it in order to gain sympathizers for their cause

in the union elections.

The informant advised

that their

propaganda efforts were short-lived however, because LOURISCO

QUEZ

went to the Union Hospital and in order to get the

union to pay his medical expenses he claimed that he broke

his leg falling down in the street. In the union elections,

the non-Communist slate of officers won out over the pro-

Communist slate which was headed by GILDARDO MONGE.... The

informant supplied a complete list of the names of the

non-Communist'and pro-Communist officers by position in the

election and these names are the same as the names supplied

by. PX 633-S.

ARVIZU was seen by him in Cananea only once since the last

contact and on that occasion he visited the house of LUIS

QUIROGA and the barber shop of GERMAN RIOS, both of whom

are old friends of his. He discussed the political situa-

tion with them and was overheard at the barber shop to en-

dorse the endidacy of GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ

-1-

CALL INPORBAT ION COFATED

DARE D/3V2A3 2803 20D

DATE Wh

45170

DocId: 32182962 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PX: 100-3353

FEP/CCI

The informant advised that these parties have been

engaged in carrying on much propaganda 'throughout Mexico ir

order

to win a following but in Cananea everything:is quiet.

He said that all of the people in Cananea appear to be sup-

porting the PRI and it appears as if it will be a very quiet

election as far as Cananea

is concerned.

LOCAL ELECTIONS

The informant went on to advise that in the local

elections the only candidates that are expected to be pro-

posed will be. those belonging to the PRI:

For the position

of Municipal President of Cananea there are two prominent'

Commerce and JUAN MELICOF LOSTAUNAU, former Chief of Police.

MELICOF appears to have the support of the union while

XIVILLE that of comercial interests.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

The informant advised that whereas LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

is now a famous name

thoughout Mexico as the alleged

slayer of President JOHN F. KENNEDY, he had never heard of.

OSWALD prior to the assassination of the American President.

He advised that he is well acquainted with almost every

Anerican that has lived in Cannea within the past 25 years•

and he is positive that LET HARVEY OSWALD hever lived in the

Cananea area nor spent any time here.

OTHER

The informant advised that he

ha never heard of

the name nor known anybody by the name

of

-2-

45170 DocId:32182962 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 19

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAS, PAGER 20042353)

FROM

SA BOSE No MAEST

DATE:: 8/13/64

SUBJECT

Identity of

Source

Bate

Received

4/29/64

Agent to

When Furnished

SA COIN IS. ALCESA

Fils Whore

40024e6

234362A

VACQUEY MORENO

In tho orent intorntion contained in this

memorandon in closeninted to cuscide agoncies, care

should bo sakon to protect the idontity of sousce.

BECO RENDITION:

SUETANA GOES

CBCAR BONERO DIAZ

CARLOS CEOA PRECIADO

ENBIQUE BONBON CASERO

ANTONZO LORETO

8 « 300-3368

3 is 134-3615

ful

106-2523

pod

134378

1052089)

JMA/eb*

(5)

(HOBERTO JITERA):

(UNE EARLY OSWAL))

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

THEREIN IS

LDATE LA

(JFK).

'OTHER 4

•SEARCHED:

CINDEXED S

GERPARIZED C

MẤY 18: 1964

pret

PHOEMIX.

45370

DocId: 32182962 Page 5

105-1529-130

---

## Page 6

PX 100-3353

that it wait be one ANTONIO LORETO,

a merchant in Agua

Priota.

LES HARVEY OSTALA

The informant adviced that he is now well acquainted

with the Bane LES HARVEYVAl tho is the notorious slayer

of former President JO: F. WHINE.

song davg

tiọn of President

KAHEDY at he is positive that such an

individual neves lived or spont any

time in tho Naco on Agua

Pesota area.

Ke said it is possible that OSVALD might have

passed through these toins on his way into the interior of

Mexico but he is suze that ho never spont any tine in Ague

Peleta or Mace.

OTHER

The informant avised that he is not acuuninted with

nay individunl by the name of

NW 45170 DocId:32182962 Page 6

---

## Page 7

OR ON 04-50, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, PHOENIX (105-563)

FROM

SA JOIN M. ALBERT

SUBJECT:

UGOCH - STATE OF SONORA

IS = MEXICO

Identity o2

Source

PSI SANTIAGO

LUIS QUIJADA

HEBID

Date

Received

4/22/64

DATE: 5/18/64

Agent to

Whon Furnished

SA JOIN M. ALBERT

File Where

Locatod

134-2724

In the event information contained in this

monorandum is disseminatod to outside agencies, care

should be taken to protect the identity of source.

RECOLMENDATION: IndeX GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAI

ENRIQUE BORBOR

RANON MORARES

CARLOS OCHOA

GUILLERIO GIM

FRANCISCO "PANCO" GIE

ALL INPORAATION CONTAINED

PHONEDY,

CLASSI

IDATE.

BY

503y

FRyO

105: 563

1

134-2724

• 100-4378

105-1529

1 - 134-378

JMA/ebt

(5)

(JUAN SINNITZ ARVIZU)

(LEE FARVEY OSWARD)

OTHER 4

SEARQMED....

SERIALIZED CLILEO OR

MAY 18 1964

PSI • PMOENIX

9301815529-131

NW 45170 DocId:32182962 Page 7

---

## Page 8

FX 105-563

should he be selected, will be easily managed in office by

this element.

The informant advised that one of the signi-

ficant factors in the economy of Naco at the present time is

the failure of nost

of the night clubs and houses of prosti-

tutionin the past six months.

He said he believes there

are only eight prostitutes now wosking in the town whereas

formerly there were over 20 and this has been brought about

by the recent clamping down of visits by soldiers to Taco,

Sonora, by the Military Authorities at Ft. Huachuca.

He

Said the resultshas beon to crable the decent citizens &

Naco to come to the fore and they now hope to oust the erim

inal and immoral element from political power.

JUAN JIMENEZ ARVIZU

The informant advised that JUAN JIBENEZ ARVIZU

spends most of his time when not vorking, in Cananea and

1s not

seen mich around Cananea,

He said little is krin

of his contacts in the Naco area.

LSE HARVEY OSWALD

The informant advised that he had never heard of

IES HARVEY OSWALD before the assassination of the late

PreSident JOIN F. KENNEDY. He said that he is well acquainted

with all of the American who have iived or spent any amount

of time in Naco, Sonore,

during the past 10 years and he is

sure that Was HARVEY OSHALD never spent any time in this

cown.

OTHER 4

The informant advised that he has never haard

or known anyone by the name of

NN 45170

DocId: 32182962 Page 8

---

