# docid-32295149

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10214-10425

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-48

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/05/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/10/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32295149

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assássination Records Collection Act of 1902 114 USS 2107 Hote).

DATE: (KAT.12-2017

Mr. Tolson -

Mr. Mohr.-

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Belmont

FBI

Mr. Callahan

Date:

2/5/60

Transmit the following in .

(Type in plain text or code)

Via _

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

/ Mr. Malone -

Mr. M. Cuira

Mr. Rosen -

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

"Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1423)

FROM:

SAC, WFO (105-26269)

I. IRVING

DAVIDSON

IS - ISRAEL

EC°D 5-11-60

BUT''I FORW 5-31-60

eep-

11-22-94

m2-5-98

8

Grasite

Devansify

JFK)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/

Enclosed herewith are

eight

head memorandum captioned and dated

as above.

(3) copies of a letter (JAR)

The source of the information is WF 568-5*. (5)

For information of the Bu, information was previously

set out in my letterhead memo dated

12/9/59, concerning

GERHART and an invitation which was to be extended to

GERHART for a visit to Israel The attention of the Bu i:

also directed to the fact tha

DAVIDSON reported that in

the letter to GERHART from SELLINGER Sit was indicated that

SIFIED

TOMaNERats, name was mentioned as being the person

to report

GERHART's inability to make the trip to Israel. SWEBB is

a former SA of the FBI and is now

associated with CLINI

MURCHISON's enterprises in WDO

" The memo is classified "Confidential" since it

Atends to reveal FBl investigative interest in a foreign

-pLomatIC OItIcaL and establishment, and since data s

eported could reasonably result in identification of a

ontidentia, informant of continuing value and compromis

ture offectiveness thereof

ENCLOSURE

3-Bureau.

(Encls. 8)

nor as (e) ta (es) 2-1423-48

DATE FORW. 2-8-60

1-WFO

HOW FORWO -14N;

0-14B

BY -

Caxa

ate

ISFEB 9

1960

MPC: eas

(4)

Bike copu

destines

211700

C - Wick

CC. Datoe

BEG 60

Photo

REQ REC'D$ 9.20-62

Approved:

62 FEB 16

office)

ter Bing /law. SECRE

sofia rile in Charge

DocId: 32295149 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFID

ENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SECRET

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

February 5, 1960

2-5-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SEDIASR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_/, 6.

(JFK)

Davidson,

a well known

N

Davidson

(s) Ambassador to Israel)

attendance.

getting military

Symington."

confirms that this had occurred and that he had previous

knowledge of it

(s) Schwimmers possibly identical withladoohe tiam

whom the intormant believed to be in some way

associated with El Al, official Israeli airlines. s

ot Justice, advisea a special Agent of the Federal Bureal

of Investigation that Adolphe William Schwimmer Sad filed ‹

charge of the Office of the Intercontinent Airway, Incorporated S

which was an agent of the Government of Israel supply missions

11-22-94

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEE

ESCUE SHERE SHOWN

TWEnWISE

SECRET

Declassify on!

CONFI

TIAI

ENCLOSURE

2

1423-48

DocId: 32295149

Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 0f 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFiDENTIAL

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

Davidson also had in his possession a letter which

was belos directed to one terhart (possibly 4ges; ltad

General John Ken Gerkart, listed in the June,

States Department of Defense telephone directory as being

attached to the Air Force and assigned to the Office of

eputy Chief of staff Ior ans and Program): Xthe lette

ad been prepared by Shnuel Sellinger, Director Of the &

Some at that go outa be au, / one 18 49 1.

were possible for him to come.

The letter stated that "we"

nave great interest in Al Bettock (phonetic) AircraftS

becoming a contractor

to the United States Air Force inS

Scurope and the Middle East, and such an arrangement woul

oe beneficial to both countries, The letter requeste

that gerhart instruct his people at Chateau kue or koux<

France Sto conduct such investigations as are customat.

in order that Bettock might become, in time, an approved

United States Air Force facility:J(S)

Davidson also reportedto Yari that he was

on teet to Cort Pae a note o the kind kind t

have a letter from

introduction for Irying Davidson, a Washington representative

of Bettock Aircraft. which was located in lud, Israell@It

was to indicate that Davidson was to assist Bettock in his

efforts to secure contracts arom the United States

[in Europe and the Middle East Sand any assistance extended

to Davidson would be appreciated. The letter should be

signed by John Gerhart:

Davidson planned to take

letter, together with Schwimmer, to Chateau Rue And allow

Schwimmer to do the talking since Davidson is not an aircraft &

expert.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclucions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the Fil and is leaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONESSENTIAL

- 2-

SECRET

DocId: 32295149 Page 4

---

