# docid-32307246

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10386

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-75147-210-67

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

07/20/1955

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS:

NRO, B/F INT, SANS SOUCI NIGHT CLUB, ASSOC, DVC, EC,

GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307246

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey.

ATE: 11-14-2011

-, STANDARD FORMS NO, E

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

FALL INFORMATION CONTAINED? "Y

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (62-3398)

X AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

IN CUBA

PATE: July 20, 1955

DECIASSIF SABY 8269STE/ULTIF

ON 500x2

1123/055868356 1326

đ didi.

- Miami Contidential Intormant MM

(501-C was recon-

1955, at which time he advised that

who used to be a chauffeur

now controls gambling in the Panamanian Hotel,

City, Republic of Panama. M

He advised that among American samblers connected

with Cuban gambling activities at the present time arel

from Detrolt!

Michigan, and according to informant, is

associated with the Montmarte Club, Havana, Cuba.

Informant advised that in addition to DINO and

EDDIEKCELLINI, one PATSYROSE, originally from betrot,

Michigan, is also connected with the Tropicana Club at

Informant stated that MARtINETFOX and RAMON

ADULA now have 75 slot machines in operation'

He believes these machines were shipped in from Chicago,

¡Illinois, but could furnish no specific information. a

He advised that NORMAN ROTHMAN has been "squeezed

RE VIEN

CLASSIFIED

EXTENDE

REASON

FCIM,

DATE

advised that it is his understanding that ROTHMAN is now

trying to promote. a Spanish-American Club in the downtown

section of the

city of Havana, but again he could furnish no

specific details.(u

ARMATION CONTAINED

UNCLASSIFIED

ARE SHOWN

[SE,

In accordance with previous Bureau instructions,

any other data concerning American gambling activities in

HEREIN

EXCEPT

Cuba will

be furnished as learned.

Two additional copies of this letter are being

furnished the Bureau in the event they desire to furnish

copies to the Legat, Havana, Cuba.

RUC. 605M

:

137-437

RECORDED - 21

CJM: azm

(6)

at Hous

DEXED - 21

02-75 14%

- E1:-67

Ice sent to

JUL: 2,2 1955

J JUL A9 1955

146c

DocId: 32307246 Page 2

---

