# docid-32316413

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10347-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2817-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/29/1961

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

JAMES PLUMERI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

. v9.1

HW 45920

DocId: 32316413

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Report Forza

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW YORK

ITTLE OF CASE

Offico of Origin

NEW YORK

THOMAS DIOGUARDI aka

Date

Investigative Period

SEP 2 9 1961

7/10 - 9/15/61

Roport made by

THEODORE F. BRUHL

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

Typed By:

ky.

REFERENCE:

Report of ROBERT M. KENNEDY dated 5/29/61.

- P -

ADMINISTRATIVE:

STANDEY SHERMAN, 1010 East 105th Street, Brooklyn,

is referred to in this report. He was arrested by SA WILLIAM

tenns on a TrIs violation, his file number is 15-24781.

A confidential source having access to records of

the Brokerage House referred to in the body of this report is

DOMINIC DORATA, Legal Department, Bache and Company, 36 Wall

Street, New York City,

This information was set out ir

synopsised form in the body of the report because DORATA

furnished information on the condition that it would not be

made available to anygone gutside the FBI.

COPIES MADE, SPATE O/

(SEE BUFILE Ü2-117290)

3

- Bureau (92-2817)

1

- USA,

4

SDNY

- New

York (92-652

DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED TO JUSTICE DEPARTMENT

Do not write in spaces below

92-2817-22

17

1961

REG 50

EX-10G

1 cc: AAG Criminal Division

Form 0-6

10/9/6/

-

A

-

COVER PAGE

58

5700T10

ade en 154/

Property of FBI — This report is locined to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1986 0 388819

NW 45920 DocId:32316413 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-652

A confidential source having access to the

records at the Commercial Bank of North America, 1400 Broadway,

New York City, is Mr. FRED MICHAELIS.

A confidential source having access to the

records of the Lawrence-Cedarhurst Savings and Loan

Association, Cedarhurst, New York, is M.J. MORRISSEY.

A confidential source having access to the

records of the Peninsula National Bank of Cedarhurst,

Cedarhurst, New York is ROBLEY F. DE MOTT, Vice-President.

I confidential source having access to th

ecords of the Lawrence-Cedarhurst Branch of the Meado

Brook National Bank, 400 Central Avenue, Lawrence, New York,

is Mrs. GRACE RHAME, Assistant Vice-President.

INFORMANTS

Informant

NY T-1

NY 2772-C

NY T-2

PCI

NY T-3

JOHN P. FREY,

Acting Post Master

Atlantic Beach, New York

NY I-4

CSNY-1

Contacted By

SA WILLIAM F. BEANE

SA THEODORE F. BRUHL

SA THEODORE F. BRUHL

OTHER 4

_ D -

COVER PAGE

NW 45920 DocId: 32316113 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-652

Informant

NY T-5

Former NY 2804-C

NY T-6

Postal Inspector in Charge,

New York City who provided

results of mail cover during

August and September, 1961

NY T-7

PCI

NY I-8

NY 2151-C

NY T-9

NY 2512-C

NY T-10

NY/204eC

LEADS

NEW YORK

Contacted By

SA JOSEPH J. MAC FARLANE

OTHER 4

SA THEODORE F. BRUHL

SA WARREN J. DONOVAN

SA JOSEPH GAMBLE

SA JAMES TUBRIDY

At New York, New York,

Will report results of long distance telephone

call toll check.

Will continue investigation of subject's financial

condition.

Will cover leads as furnished by mail cover.

subject's activities.

-E* -

COVER PAGE

871-10035

NW 45920 DocId:32316113 Page 4

---

