# docid-32397424

## Page 1

Page: 12/17/98

Page:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+00104-10433-10107

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N! 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

CHIEF, ST. LOUIS OFFICE

TO : DIRECTOR,

DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE

MEMO: CONDEMNATION OF CIA BY DR. NELS F.S. FERRE, PROMINENT THEOLOGIAN

02/19/69

1

KING

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

OPEN IN FULL POSTPONED IN FULL

• 12/17/98

JFK-RH19:F09 1998.12.17.14:28:24:780128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED.

HH 53216

DocId: 32397424

Page

1

---

## Page 2

(

UNITED STATES COVERNMEN

Memorandurn

Director,

Doinestic Contact Service

Atti:

chief, st, Louis Office.

S1-134-69

DATE: 19 Februay 1952

Condemnation

Of-CIA by. Di. Nels F. S. Feise, Proninent Incologian

1.:

• From 9-12 EcD 69, the Southern Baptist Convention Directors of

State Student Departients from 18-19 states held a regional meeting in

st cours,Missouri. During at address at the conference,

the Rev. Di. Kels

5:5. Ferre,iprominent theologian and publicist of Andover Neuton incological.

-SeMinary,"

now associated with Wooster (Ohio) College, expressed his

concern mich the growing polai of the CIA in the ls.

As an

example,

ha

said that the Agency was "dixectlyiresponsible" for the assassinations of

Martin Luther King and' Senator Robest Kennedy, and had been involved in

Ene. death of President John F. Kennedy.

2.

•As his rationalization for the king assessination, ferre. claimed

that.

the Johnson Adninistration had become concerned that King vould leàd

another massive "march on Washingion"' during an election year, and therefore

hed ordered the Agency to murder king.

In an aside, he said that the

agency was quite chagrined when their

"bother scivice", Scotland Yard, had

SE

arrested their hired assassin;

-James Earl Ray,

after CIA had believed he hadu

been

safely spirited abroad. "Ferre's rationalizations for the other

assassinátions werd not given. "Faire is an ordained Congregational minister

whọ has a PhD fron Harvard

3..

Because of his proninence-the is listed in "Ino's Who"'--, Ferre's

semarks apparently vere not challenged by the baptist student cirectors who

appeared to be quite concernal by the charges.

These

directors are

Isponsible for

the

Southern Baptist

accivities on all niversity and

college campuses in their respective states,

primarily in the coucheen

border

Dato 33 7st 12281

L.

Inis inforation is Forwarded as being of possible interest.

imparantly Ferre's remarts were not reported in the local St. Louis

nel5-

Apers.

255

Fricking of

113

HH. 53216

DocId: 32397424 Page 2

---

