# docid-32327834

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90066-10075

HQ

92-3960-120

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/17/1969

PAGES: 21

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE (CONT.)

An information copy of this report is being

designated for New York file 156-126, captioned, "MID-CITY

DEVELOPMENT CORP.; SALVATORE GRANELLO aKa - FUGITIVE;

WPPDA", since GRANELLO is carried as a subject and a fugitive

in this case.

In view of the fact that GRANELLO is in a fugitive

status in this substantive case, fugitive is carried in the

title of the Anti-Racketeering

report.

Investigatie leads to locate GRANELLO are not

being set out in this report as they are being handled in

the Mid-City Development Corp. case.

The NYO is coordinating

the AR investigation with the WPPDA investigation and there-

fore, the results of other investigation thus far conducted

to locate the fugitive is not being set forth in this report.

NY T-10 advised that GRANELLO was in the Boston

but that his exact whereabouts were unknown.

NY T-10

stated that GRANELLO intends to surrender himself to New

York authorities after the Labor Day weekend because he has

the situation

"bagged" and will make bail immediately.

NY T-10 stated that he last saw GRANELLO at the Surf Dinner

club,

Revere, Mass., on the evening of 8/3/69 when subject

indicated that he was desirous of obtaining a passport for

Venezuela.

NY I-10 is BS 801-C-TE.

INFORMANTS

Identity

NY T-1

Contacting Agent

SA EDWARD MALLON

NY 3446-C

"

11

NY T-2

NY 6436-C-TE

- B ..

COVER PAGE

S00fo

DocId: 32327834

Page 2

---

## Page 3

[Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS (CONT.)

Identity

NY T-3

NY 4461-C

NY T-4

NY 5837-C-TE

NY T-5

NY 5169-PC

NY T-6

NY 3515-C

NY T-7

NY 5042-C-TE

NY T-8

NY 4457-C

NY T-9

NY 4402-C-TE

LEADS

Contacting Agent

PAUL DORKIN

WILLIAM A. VERICKER

NELSON J. CONOVER

WILLIAM A. VERICKER

WILLIAM J. CRUMLEY

FRANK R. GERRITY

WILLIAM A. VERICKER

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK. 1. Will follow this in-

vestigation with Detective PETE KENNEALY, CIB, NYCPD.

Will attempt to follow GRANELLO's activities

at 215 Mott St., NY, NY, and at 10 Ten Eyk Rd., Greenwood

Lake, MY, through Chief of Police, Greenwood Lake PD.

3. Will maintain contact with NYO informants.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32327834 Page 3

---

