# docid-32288369

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10145

HQ

92-3182-191

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/20/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GAL, HEALTH, B/F INT, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32288369

Page 1

152

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mate).

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INGESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

CORMUNICATIONS, SECTION

APR2

TELE

MT. Tolson.

Mri Parsons

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan-

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans_

Mr. Malones

Mr. Rosen_

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter._

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room_

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

mcan

PM CLM

URGENT 4-20-51

11-01

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 3P

GUSTALEX, AKAOS ARO DAILY SUMMARYO

PER EG SIX TWO SEVEN TUO DASH E ADVISED THAT HE HAS KNOWN ALEX TO

FREQUENT THE MAYO CLINIC AT ROCHESTER, MINNESOTA, FOR PHYSICAL

CHECKUPS IN THE PAST. HE STATED THAT IS HIS OPINION THAT ALEX/S

HEALTH HAS BEEN AGGRAVATED BY RECENT INVESTIGATION OF THE ACTIVITIES

OF ALEX. BY THE FBI. HE STATED THAT ALEX HAS A HEART CONDITION AND

IS TROUBLED PERIODICALLY BY ULCERS. CG SIX FOUR FOUR SIX DASH C

ADVISED THAT HE RECENTLY HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH GUS LIEBE AND

THAT IT IS HIS OPINION THAT LIEBE WORKS ON A BONUS ARRANGEMENT AT

THE J AND J PICNIC GROVE, A LARGE GAMBLING OPERATION IN WILL COUNTY ILLO,

JUST OUTSIDE THE SOUTHWEST BOUNDARY OF COOK COUNTY. HE STATED IT WAS

HIS OPINION THAT FINANCIAL CONTROL OF THE J AND J OPERATION WAS

HELD BY •ALEX, FRANCIS CURRY, SAM GIANCANA, FRANK LA PORTE AND

ROCCO FISCHETTI, HE STATED THAT THIS IS CURRENTER ONE TO

GAMBLING OPERATIONS IN THE AREA OF CHICAGO. HE STATED @THAR 38V29RAL

*VEARS AGO THE SAME TYPE OF OPERATION WAS SETUP IN DEERFIELD LO

END PAGE ONE

lake

58 MAY 2 1961

DocId: 32288369 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ReLeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote) .

11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

AND AT THAT TIME LIEBE ARRANGED THE BANKROLLING AND HAD A TEN PER CENT

CUT OF ALL PROFITS. HOWEVER, SHORTLY AFTER THE OPERATION WAS SETUP

THE OUTFIT PLACED SOME OF THEIR MEN AS EMPLOYEES AT THE OPERATION

WITH CROOKED CARDS AND DICE AND CAUSED THE OPERATION TO LOSE MONEY.

BASED ON THIS MANEUVER THE OUTFIT CHASTISED LIEBE FOR LOSING MONEY

AND CUT HIS PERCENTAGE DOWN TO FIVE PER CENT. THEY THEN PULLED OUT

THEIR MEN AND THE OPERATION BEGAN MAKING MONEY AGAIN. IN REGARD TO

METHODS USED BY THE OUTFIT TO SECURE A NUMBER OF LEGALLY OBTAINED

TELEPHONES FOR THE OPERATION OF A BOOK, INFORMANT EXPLAINED ONE

METHOD USED BY THE OUTFIT. HE SAID THE OUTFIT WOULD GO TO A SLUM

AREA AND CONTACT THE OWNER AND A NUMBER OF TENANTS IN THE BUILDING

ARRANGING TO PAY FOR THE TELEPHONE BILLS OF THE PERSON CONTACTED.

THEY WOULD THEN RUN EXTENSIONS OFF OF THESE PHONES TO ONE ROOM IN THE

BUILDING WHICH WOULD BE THE HEADQUARTERS FOR THE BOOK. THE PERSONS

IN WHOSE NAMES THE PHONES WERE LISTED WERE NOT PERMITTED TO USE THEIR

PHONES FROM ABOUT ELEVEN AM TO FIVE PM WHEN THE TRACKS WERE RUNNING.

OG SIX FOUR FOUR SIX DASH C ALSO ADVISED THAT TO FACILITATE QUICK

RESULTS OF RACES FOR BOOKMAKERS THE OUTFIT WOULD HAVE ONE OF THEIR MEN

AND PAGE TWO

DocId: 32288369 Page 3

---

