# docid-32290765

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-539

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/01/1962

1

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32290765

Page 1

311

---

## Page 2

Release

under

the

TP :

281-11-2017

з рї

Y

FERRED

6-1-62

11-08

Records cou

FEDERAL

BUREAU Ur BESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN2

1962

TELETYPE

PM JEG

Mr. Tolson,

Mr. Belmont

Mr.

Mr. Callahan.

MI. Contad

Mr. DeLnagh

Mr. Evans E

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen.

DE

Mr. Sullivan

TO DIRECTOR FBI 92-3182

Mr.

Tavel...

Mr. Trotter.

FROM SAG CHICAGO 92-373

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes?

GUS

ALEX, AKA.J. AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

Miss Gandy..

CE SIX FIVE FOUR THREE DASH C DASH TE ADVISED THAT HELIAD BECEIVED

INFO THAT- THÉRE HAS BEEN A CHANGE IN THE OWNERSHIP®

OF THE CLUB ROUGE,

pr

WHICH CLUB ALEX ALLEGED HE, HAD A FINANCIAL INTEREST. ACCORDING TO INFORM

AND THE CLUB WAS PREVIOUSLY OWNED BY JOE SMITH AND FRANK LA PORTE AND

THAT POSSIBLY CHARLES ZERAVICH, MANAGER OF THE CLUB, REPRESENTED ALEX-S

INTEREST IN THE CLUB•

INFORMANT STATED THAT NOW, LOUIS ARGER, HAS A SEVENTY FIVE PER

CENT INTÉREST IN THE CLUB ROUGE HAVING BOUGHT OUT FRANK LA PORTE-S :

INTEREST. ARGER® IS ALLEGED TO HAVE CHARGE OF VICE AND STRIP JOINTS ON

SOUTH STATE STREET FOR ALEX. JOE SMITH IS SUPPOSED TO HAVE THE REMAIN-

ING TWENTYFIVE PER CENT INTEREST BUT WILL BE PAID ONLY TWO HUNDRED DOL-

LARS PER MONTH UNTIL THE COMPANY STARTS SHOWING A PROFIT. AT THAT TIME

SMITH WILL® RECEIVE TWENTY FIVE PER CENT OF THE PROFIT.

INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED THAT JOE SMITH IS SUPPOSED TO STAY

AWAY FROM THE CLUB ROUGE UNTIL QUOTE THE HEAT FROM THE POLICE DEPT. IS

DOWN ENQUOTE. ACCORDING TO INFORMANT, SMITH ALSON HAS TO QUOTE TAKE ALL

THE BEATS ENQUOTE IN THE OPERATION OF THE CLUB.

an

CHARLES ZERAVICH AND ACE PHILLIPS WILL CONTINUE TO WORK AT THE

CLUB BUT ARE ALLEGED NOT TO HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST. ZERAVICH WILL

CONTINUE MANAGING THE CLUB. "

92-3182-539

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECIO?

12 JUN 5 1962

F26

END AND ACK PIS

1962

12-13 AM.

OK FBI WA HFL

A Green

Note] .

DocId: 32290765 Page 2

---

