# docid-32336957

## Page 1

Released under.

DATE: 11-14-207

aty Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (44 USC (2107 Hote).

PREAD STATES DEPARTMENT OF MICRia SECRET

It Reply, Please Refer to

CLASSIFISATION RETAINED BY

23

EXEMPT FROM COSICAFEGOR

INSATION INDEFINITE.

6/21/78-865

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

January 11, 1961

1115/94 Spy MAY GAT

DATE OF DECLASS

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, aka

Declassify on: DADR 1/30/84

A confidential source abroad furnished the follow

(JEK)

ing information on December 28, 1960,

concerning ELOY GUTTERREZ

MENOYO and GONZALEZ ARTURO MATA-LLEDO: 57

ELOY GUTIERREZ-MENOYO was born at Madrid or at

Cubana on December 8, 1934, 1s a Cuban national, and resides

at Calle Linea-y-F.,

Havana, Cuba. He has been reported to

terrorist organization known

de Liberación

-Aborian Revolutionary Liberation Directorate),

wand to have

been sent to

Belgium for the purpose of organizing the Liege

branch of this organization and setting up a terrorist opera-

tion with the Spaniards in Liège.

The true purpose of his

visit to Belgium was reportedly to find out as much as

possible about "D.R.I.L." and its real value as a movement

capable of overthrowing

the FRANCO government.

GUTIERREZ-MENOYO arrived in Belgium by air from

Madrid on July 21, 1960,

at about 1:00 P.M.

He claimed that

after remaining in Spain for four or five days he

to Belgium.

Since he had entered the country clandestinely,

and since his presence was considered to be dangerous for the

public welfare, ELOY GUTIERREZ-MENOYO was the

object of ar

expulsion order issued August 10, 1960. After having beer

arrested on August 6, 1960, he was released on August 11, 1960,

after having been notified of the expulsion order paris.

on August

12, 1960, he left Belgium at 8:20 P.M. by air for

During his stay in Belgium, GUTIERREZ-MENOYO also

claimed to have founded in Cuba approximately six years ago

a group of resistance against the

BATISTA government called

"Ii Frente Nacional del Escambray", of which he was the loaded)

The confidential source abroad advised that GONZALEZ

ARTURO MATA LO, OF ARTUROJO ON ALES MATTER DARE

куличка

BeLTEr CONZALEZ NATAILEDO, OX, JUAN MATA, alias

, born Apri1312

Frame

ALL INFORMANION CONTAINED

(5)

PHEREIN

5 copus

SLOVEN

1-31-61

gond

OTHERWISE

_ +290392298

SECRET

CON:

(1)

DocId: 32336957

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Raleased under the Fohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992(11.050-2107 Hotel:

SECRET

ГЗЯОЗ₴

27, 1925, a Spanish national, residing at No. 13 Calle

Fernandez de Los Rios, Valencia-Palente, Spain,

arrived in

Belgium by train from

France, on

July 8, 1960.

was arrested on the same day as GUTIERREZ-MENOYO and was

the object of an expulsion order dated August 10, 1960, of

which he was given notification on August 18, 1960.

left Belgium on that same day at 6:20 P.M. Via Neder-Kanne,

on the Belgian-Dutch border.

At the time he was escorted

across the border into Holland, he claimed that he intended

to return to France by way of Germany.

He likewise expressed

his determination to go to Spain in order to pursue actively

the fight against the FRANCo regIme.

He is known to have

served as a liaison agent between the terrorists in Madric

and the

"D.R. I.L. "

organization during the February 1960

bombings.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the MD. It is to property of

the FBi and is i aced to your agency;

it and its contenis are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

AL

DocId: 32336957 Page 2

---

