# docid-32337701

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90137-10467

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89457-9

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:RD 55953 Date: 11-22-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO : LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE:

06/26/1961

PAGES:

1

'SUBJECTS:

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

JORGE BELIARD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 55353

DocId: 32337701

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Konito do

- UNITED STATES GOVEP

JENT

Memorandum

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JEK Act 6

(1) (C)

JEK Act 6 (4)

TO

Mr. L'Allier

FROM

S. J. Papich

SUBJECT:

SECH

Lisa do it

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone -

Hosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

SHIOUN

ENCO

DATE: June 26, 1961

156685491G0

418/95

-JFK)

12/10/43

Classified by 9803k00/sel

IS - CUBA

Declagity on. MADE

341,326

The captioned individual is a station manager of the

cubana Airlines,

New York City.

request concerning Beliard.

the purpose of this request fe aison was requested to determine

on June 23, 1901,.

Llalson Agent that a

cuban source had moment coaste the

Beliard possibly could be of some use to the Agency in

essentially CIA's interest would be to obtain assistance fromp

'OB.

the Liaison Agent requested

CIA not to establish any

word from the Bureau.

contact with Do 4aregnding further

*ACTION: JFK Act 6 (1) (B)

CLASCIEIED BY 5668 SLD/KSe

DECL/SSIFY.ON: 25X

ARE THIS DEMENT RATIO BAreleS

2+3:

SCIA is of the opinion that Beliard through

his contacts in the Cubana Airlines and because of his possibe

association with individuals who travel reqularly between the

two countries. could arrange for CIA

Tonaabove information is being directed de the

attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section for appropriate review.

He can either (1) inform Cla that no contact whatsoever should

made by CIA with Beliard in view of current Bureau operational&

interest, or (2) we can permit ClA to maintain contact with Beliard

for exploration

tark tolbertard &oncerning thef

its interests as described above, or (3) we can

and serve as the intermeular

if Beliard is in a positionte

be of ássistance in this regard

Replies to CIA should be

handled via Liaison.

SJP: ban band

(5) •

Wins 0e

REG- 85

1 - Mr. Donahoe

- Mr.

Dunn

1

-

Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

EX-112

Alt

(705-89457-180)

SECRET

10.I0L

___COPIES MADE,

DATE. 6-6=78 BY/

Re CAercha

FOR REVIEW AT POTAO ANG/OR DELIVERY

SEE BUFILE 62-117299130/61

I ROLA RE REQUEST DATED ICION.Y

NH 55353 DocId:32337701 Page 2

6-14-98

---

