# docid-32307492

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

RECORD NUMBER:

AGER: 134-10292-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-439

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/12/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

SGI, MEETING, ASSOC, SUR, ARMORY LOUNGE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

02/20/1998

INDEFINITE

w9.1

204

45792 DocId: 32307492 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1-48 (Roy, 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

xxx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy -

DEFERRED

10-12-61

2:15 AM RDA

TO DIRECTOR

pose

FROM SAC CHICAGO 120225

SAMUEL M

"GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6486-C: REPORTED

YESTERDAY THAT FELIX ALDERISIO, CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM, CONFERRED C

BRIEFLY WITH DOMINIC BLASI THAT DATE AFTER HAVING ADVISED BLASIA

THAT HE HAD BEEN ATTEMPTING TO CONTACT HIM ALL OF THE PREVIOUS

NIGHT. HE SAID HE HAD RECEIVED A CALL FROM HOFFA RE HAVING A

MEETING IN A CITY BELIEVED TO BE EITHER NEW YORK OR DETROIT.

MENTIONED THAT IT WAS VERY IMPORTANT THAT GIANCANA CALL TELE-

PHONE NUMBER JE 8-7959 AT 10 PM LAST NIGHT. PCI L

ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT DURING THE TIME THE MEETING TOOK PLACE

SHE, OBSERVED GIANCANA, BLASI AND AN UNKNOWN IN THE VICINITY OF

THE. ARMORY LOUNGE, FURNISHED LICENSE NUMBERS WHICH PROVED TO

BE THOSE ÜTILIZED BY GIANCANA AND BLASI. SURVEILLANCE MAIN-

• TANNED LAST NIGHT NEAR ARMORY, AND CLOSE CONTACT KEPT WITH SOURCE,

HOWEVER,. GIANCANA AND GROUP NOT OBSERVED. ONLY ACTIVITY IN

VICINITY OF SOURCE WAS DINNER PARTY HELD BY UNIDENTIFIED GROUP

.. NOT AFFILIATED WITH GIANCANA. DETROIT ADVISED THERE IS NO

:, EXCHANGE THAT DIVISION AS JE, HOWEVER, NEW YORK DOES HAVE A

JE EXCHANGE. ARMED AND DANGEROUS. U

RECEIVED:

3:25 AM

LAM

92-3171-439

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED REC- 75

• OCT 13 1961

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20-84 BYSP5R5&/CoC

OTHER 4

eras

leist sit.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32307492 Page 2

---

