# docid-32304381

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10011

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2918-130, 131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/05/1962

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

SMO, BKG, TRA, TELCAL, AMA, CM, ILLEGAL ACT,

GAMBLING, B/F INT, P/P, GM, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC RPT

v9.1

HW 45854 DocId: 32304381 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

/

FD- 363 (Rev. 3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

Pittsburgh

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

Pittsburgh

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/28/62

11/5-12/18/62

REP AMES B. FANNING

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

SYPED BY

REFERENCE

Report of SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, PIttsburgh, 11/5/62

TO BUREAU (2)

ENCLOSURES

1.

Two copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated 12/28/62,

in which informants used

in this report are characterized.

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will follow and report activities of MANNARINO and his

associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

APPROVED

comes Me Bureau

.4-Bureau (92-2918) (EAt

1-USA,

Pittsburgh

2-Pittsburgh (92-228)

'ECIAL AGE!

I CHAR

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2918-131

REC- 36

FIX 109

4 JAN

COPIES DESTROYED

925 MAY 22 1977 / 531-Jwh

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

1 - Criminal

Dir - Bepartmart 118163

1963

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

BY.

F43

U.S. GOVERNMEMT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

NW 45854 DocId: 32304381 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

ADMINISTRATIVE

During this period a close liaison has been maintained

with Special Agents,.

Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue service (IRS),

Pittsburgh, who are conducting

investigation of

subject.

INFORMANTS

The T symbols utilized in this report will be the

same, where applicable,

as those used in report back to

and including

that of 7/61:

PG, I-4 is PCI

PG T-35 is PCI

OTHER 4

B*

COVER PAGE

HW

45854

DocId: 32304381 Page 3

---

## Page 4

3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

DATE

11/5/62

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/20/62 - 11/1/62

TYPED BY

dir

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

14

REFERENCES

Report of SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh, 9/24/62.

-P-

ENCLOSURES

To the Bureau (2): Two copies of a letterhead memorandum

dated 11/5/62, in which informants used

in this report are characterized.

LEAD

-=;

PITTSBURGH

At Pittsburgh, Pa. (Allegheny County)

Will follow and report activities of MANNARINO and his

associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

922918-

130

4-Bureau (92-2910) (Enclo2

Pittsburgh

2-pittsburgh 192-228)

1- Prept I// 16/0.

COPIES

DESTROYED

15.3

925 MAY LEM IS ON RECORO OF AT,

PACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. _...

HOW FWD. -

BY..

13 NOV 9

1962

NOTATIONS

STAT. SECT.,

REG 39

400

0 232

NW 45854 DocId: 32304381 Page 4

U.s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

---

## Page 5

P.G 92-228

OTHER 4

ADMINISTRATIVE

During the period of this report, close liaison has been

maintained with Special Agents, Intelligence Division, IRS,

Pittsburgh, who are conducting

investigations of subject.

The interview with DANIEL HANNA at the Allenwood Honor Farm,

Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pa., was in connection with

his selection as a

target for development in the Top Echelon

Criminal Informant Program.

The interview with VICTOR

CARLUCCI was attempted in order to provide "cover" for the

interview with HANNA, inasmuch as they are friends and were

convicted and confined together.

INFORMANTS

The T symbols utilized in this report will be the same.

where applicable, as those used in reports back to, and

including, that of July, 1961:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C

PG T-43 1s PG 653-C-TE

NY T-3 is CSNY-1

NY T-4 is Credit

• Bureau of

Greater New York

NY T-5 is PCI

-B*-

COVER

PAGE

NW 45854 DocId:32304381 Page 5

---

## Page 6

UNITÉD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

November 5, 1962

SAMUEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent Thomas G.

Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, September 24, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants used in

referenced report:

PG T-2 is an individual with long association with gambling

prostitution in the New Kensington, Pa., area.

PG I-43 is a long-time numbers racket operator who has a

wide acquaintanceship among gamblers in the Squirrel Hill

section of Pittsburgh, Pa.

NY T-3 is an organization which conducts financial and

credit type investigations.

NY T-4 is an organization which collects and maintains credit

information concerning individuals.

NY I-5 is an individual with extensive knowledge of the

fur business and the persons involved in this business in

the New York City area.

HW 45854 DocId: 32304381 Page 6

---

