# docid-32339971

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90153-10065

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-213721-2774

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

05/29/1975

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

IRONCLAD

NOSENKO, OSWALD AND JFK

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

IC

Redact

10/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT;

..-d

v9.1

DocId: 32339971 Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

-

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

NO::

FROM:

SUBJECT

FBI

Date:

5/29/75

Trype In pläintext or code)

(PriorIty)

5668 540/GCL

1230 JEA

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-213721)

SAC, NEW YORK (134-18963) (INV)

"IRONCIAD

IS - R

SECRET

12/29/97

(ПК)

ReNairtel, 5/27/75.

W

Classified "S

Secret" to protect a sensitive

puqes

source.

IN YTEN OF THE

NY 8048-21,

BAd CAUTION DOST

AIGHLY ABUSTAINE POSITION OF

excusen

Cratite

HANDY TAG 07 207

NO ACTION MARAN WETON CO

FOOLS TOO DO IS SOURCE,:

TOO COOPE

AND

SECUATTY OU THE INFORMINN

AR0CZE THO

COMHUNICATION

IN THE EVENT KGB CODE NAMAS APPEAR IN THIS

TAND NOT 10

IRNCRIITCTCAAT

AND ITS INDISCRETISATE HAD ONWA

DO TAVESALGATTY

THE INFORKANDES BENS TINYLE POS MUON.

RANTED USE COULD ENEÄNGER

by SAS

:8048-0A was interviewed on

In the course of this intervier, the informant furnished

THOU THE MOM, CHETTON 5. AT and EDWARD 5, aLON

the folioning information:

2-Bureav. (RM)

2-Washington Field (105-104779) (RM).

1-New York (Document

580 dX-105

TJM:CDL: EJA: dpr

(8)

Fssmith

SECRET

REC7/05=2137217774

Date of Daciancilicatin

5504121975

Approved:

Special

Sent

Agent

In Charge

Per

U. So Government printing Office: 1972-455-574

84 JUN 2 0 1975

DocId: 32339971

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel?

• DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NX 134-18963

2.

Reference is made to Document 573, dated 5/1/75,0:1

page 6, wherein it is indicated that ALdANoR RYzHUll,

s" officer currently assigned to the Ny KGB

Residensy, had questioned the informant regarding any

"Line X"

possibilities through whom infornation might

be obtained

concerning a syrion who was attending Colunbia

University and living at the International House at Columbia..

When questioned concerning this situation informent stated

chat he had no current information in relation to this

matter.

Informant was questioned as to eny curren

information in his possession conceminglehe BALDSPOT 5)

F, 5ts

additional informa

When questioned, informant could offer no

information concerningline activities or ABDULKHALIK

CADEHIYEY: a

"Ph" ofticer currently assigned to the wy

KOB Residency, in relation to the TRINIT

and RAPAROE subjects.

Totorment

was also questioned concerning the

PADACED macter sind

in response to questions. informant

scated

that he had

no information regardingle trip to the

Boston, Mass, y area by "ka"

Ny Secondly, informant had

no information as to which

"Ka"

NY,

officer, if any, will

nake the Boston, Mass, trip in relation to the PADACEL

matter.

Conments Regarding

MOSENZO/OSWALD

As the Bureau is aware, there has been recent

newspaper and television publicity indicating that soviet

defector YURIX NOSENKO has provided informacion indicating

that LEE HARVEY OSWALD, although not recruited by the KGs,

was a counterintelligence problem to that organization

while oswald was in the soviet union.

-7-

MEY SECRET

DocId: 32339971 Page 3

---

