# docid-32335370

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90123-10036

HQ

100-12262-13

Released under the John

*. kennedy

ussassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

04/14/1944

• PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

ETHEL M. MCCALEB RAIGORODSKY

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

-DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

+.

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32335370

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

4/144/44

7/15,26-2/11,21-

TITLE

3/8,15, 29-4/5/14

ETHEL MI. MCCALEB RAICCRODSKY,

wa.

Rita

Raigorodsky; FAUL MARK RAIGORODSKY

ALL

SA FILE NO. 100-4329

REPORT MADE BY

ARTHUR J. NORSTROM

CHARACTER OF CASE

SECURITY MATTER - C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

À

RITA RAIGORODSKY has continued to participate in the

activities of the City Branch of the CP at Austin

and is alleged to be making monthly contributions

to the State Headquarters to meet the expenses of the

organization. She is a member of the Social Affairs

Committee of the City Branch and a party given at

her home for members and prospective recruits on March

11, 1944.

There has been no indication that her

husband, PAUL RAIGORODSKY, participates in CP acti-

vity in Austin, although her father is asid to be

favorable toward her political beliefs.

REE SEANCE:

DOT:IIS

AIL

Report of Special Agent ARTHUR J. NORSTROM dated

3/7/44 at

San Antonio, Texas.

AL AUSTIN, TEXAS:

ICH CONTAINED

Confidential Informant T-l reported that during the

Christmas holidays lrs. RAIGORODSKY, who is known

to her Party associates as RITA, had been to her ranch

home at Kerrville, Texas and consequently did not pan

ticipate in the activities of the group during the

christmas holidays. However, on January 10, 1944 she

was present at a City group meeting of the Communist

Party held at the home of MAC STRAUSS in Austin.

MOROVED AND

ORWARDED:

COPIE

DESTROYED

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

PECIAL AGE

i Bureau

ONI san Antonio

Dallas

Jan Antonio

COPY IN

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100-12262-13

19 APR 1 9 1944.

RECORDEL

INDiXED

7-2031

1t

HH

54462

AACC

Doerd: 32335370

---

## Page 3

SA

100-4329

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

1-1; Confidential National Defense Informant SA-421.

80193-10033

NW 54462 DooId: 32335370

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT DID ANTONIO, TUX

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

o 1N704049 1011G

1o/340/Lade

TITLE

SA FILENO. 100-4327

PERIOD FOR

REPORT MADE BY

WHICH MADE

3/2516,2312337

ARTHUR J. NOBSTRON

CHARACTER OF CASE

rita

ai orodskys: NUL. LAMA A IDORODRY

SECURITY MATTER - C

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINL

HEREIN IS UMCLASSIFAD

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

WHEATORIA

HEREIN IS

EXCEPT

RISE

KIT: A IQUiODAY hao dontinued to participate la the

activittes of the alty Branch of the ai at Austin

an! is alleged to be making ninthly contributione

to the sunte Hendquarters to meet the expenses of the

CONTAINEDorganisation.

Stie 18 a menber of the Social Affaire

comittes of the iley Branch and a party diven at

= SHOWN

her hone for mabers and prospective recrults on larch

11, 1944.

Thore has been no indication that her

husband, shuL Malcohosky, partloipates in CP act1-

vity in austing although hor fathor 18 sald to be

favorablo tonard her political ballafs.

APENS:

DST ILS:

Report of special Agent ARTHUR J. NORTION dated

1/7/44 8t 3an Antonio, Texas.

i Aside TeXASE

Confidential Informant I-l reportod that during the

Chriatmas holidays Ars. HAIGORODAKY, aho 18 knoen

to her Party associates as RITA, had bean to her ranch

home at karrrillo, Texas and consequently did not par

ticipata in she activities ol the group during sha

Christmas Holidays. Honover, on January 10, 191 B1e

was prasint at a City croup meeting of the communist

Farty held at the hose of MAC STRAUSS in Austin.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPeciAl AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

5 Bureau

I it san intorito

1 1I0 alias

3 sa: intondo

7~2031

1t

NW 54462 DocId: 32335370 Page 4

---

## Page 5

100-4329

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

Tol: Confidential National Defense Informant SA-411.

001913-15030

NW 54462 DooId: 32335370

Page 5

---

