# docid-32307911

## Page 1

"Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10269

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2126

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/09/1967

1

LCN, MEMBERS, MEETINGS, ORGANIZATIONAL

STRUCTURE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32307911

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleôtion Aot Of 1992 744 U5C 2107 Hote).

11-14-2011

J4:T.36 TRev. 5-22-64

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

9/9/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM MIR

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-365) (P)

SUBJECT: A COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re New Orleans report of SA PATRICK J. COLLINS,

JR., 7/11/67; and New York airtel to Bureau, 9/6/67.

None of the sources utilized in rerep are member

sources.

All of the individuals, with the exception of

CARLOS MARCELLO, are still considered suspected members as

none have been identified by a qualified source.

NO 1457-C-TE, who is not a member source but is

and has been intimately acquainted with CARLOS MARCELLO

and

his immediate family, deduced from his knowledge of

meetings held by CARLOS MARCELLO that VINCENZO CAMPO has

acted in the roll of mediator and JOSEPH MARCELLO,

brother of CARLOS, is next to CARLOS in command.

is not familiar with the terms "consiglieri" or

Source

"underboss"

as they apply to the LCN organizational structure.

These

terms were used by contacting agent to equate the termi-

nology used by the source to the accepted terms of LN's

organizational structure to show what source believes to

be the chain of command in the Italian criminal organiza-

tion in Louisiana.

REC 6

92-6054-2126

VeRAS SEP 111967

Bureau (RM)

2

- New York (RM)

2 - Newl Orleans

TLC: emh

(7)

A T. C. • Bishor

6 Appr&Fl: 2 5 1967

895

Special Agent in Charge

ES 10S

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32307911 Page 2

---

