# docid-32303600

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10112

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-30067-22

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SCHON, LEO ANTHONY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/10/1945

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

JOP, DIVORCE, RES, ASSOC, FOX, PAULA, EMP, PEOPLES

WORLD, NEWSPAPER, MEETING, COMMUNIST POLIT

ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32303600

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. I

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SAN FRANCISCO

FILE NO.

100-1465

REPORT MADE AT

SAN FRANCISCO

DATE WHEN MADE

4/10/45

PERIOD FOR

REPORT MADE BY

WHICH 10,17,19/45 LEO ANTHONY SCHON

ath

TITLE

JOHN PITTNAN

CHARACTER OF CAGE

INTERNAL SECURITY → COO

85384

SYNOPSIS OF FACTE

Subject resides 1405 lontgomery Street, San Francisco.

He is Managing Editor of the "PrOPIES VORLD"

Street, San Francisco, and

D, 590 Folson

as such he confers frequently

with state CRA funstionaries for proper interpretation

of current news events.

subject holds positions of

Vice President of Een Francisco County Committee Of CPA,

member of Califorria State Coittee, and member of

Educational Conmittee of Fillmore Club. CPA, He is

approved Party speaker, and frequently addresses

neighborhood clabs of the CPA. Divorce granted to

subject's wife on 3/5,45.

P*-

REFERENCE:

Report of Special Agent EDMARD. E.. NALIA

dated December 19, 1944, at San Francisco.

DETAILS:

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNLA

Sukject is considored a koy figure in the affairs of

the communist Policial Association, San Francisco Field Division,

Incury at 87 Plotsant Streat, inn Francisco, subject's

former residence address, disclosed that his mune is no longer listed

& resident

at this address.

MiSS HALINE IRE EEl, Soorstary to the Postmaster, advised

that on Januery 29, 1045: the

subject

fave notice of change of address

from 67 Pleasant Street to 590 Folsom street, both San Francisco.

It

is noted shat the letter address is the business address of the

news paneL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100- 30067-22

COFIES OF THIS REPORT

INDLAND

5

Bureau

P1

10 NA

RICORD:

ONI, San Francisco

SID,

San

San Francisco 121045

Francisco

10%

37262

G.

..i

D. E, GOVERNNEL

NW 53130 DooId: 32303600 Page 2

---

## Page 3

85389

San Francisco File 100-1465

SOURCES OF INFORMATION

Source

A

Source

B

Source C

Source D

Source

Source F

Source G

Source H

Source I

Confidential Informant SI-1050.

Confidential Informant SF-613•

Confidential Informant SF-631.

Confidential Informant SF-1433.

Confidential Informant SF-1159,

Confidential Informant SF-1425

A highiy confidential source known to Special Agents

of the San Francisco field Division who had temporary

access to records maintáined at PA headquarters,

942 Market Street, San Francisco.

Confidential Informant SF-1333÷

/Confidential Infornant

SF-1370,

The above confidential informants have been assigned

tenporary symbols in order so insure full protection

of their identities:

74 53130

DooId: 32303600

Page 3

---

