# docid-32105760

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

8/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: MATHENY

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10004-10258

RECORD SERIES : SSC SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: DRAFT REPORT--APPROVAL OF QUOTATIONS (2)

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOD

FROM: LANSDALE, EDWARD

TO: POLICY GROUP

TITLE: STATUS OF OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE: 04/11/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/11/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

• COMMENTS: Page 1 only.

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

v9.1

HH 53244

19

DocId: 32105760

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25. D.C.

11 April 1962

Status of Operation Mongoose

Report to Policy Group, 11 April 1962

By Brig. Gen. Lansdale

178-10003-10084

178-10004-10258

We are in the fourth week of the Special Group's revised plan

for Operation Mongoose. There are fifteen more weeks of Phase I,

which is essentially intelligence collection with low U.S. visibility.

Intelligence collection is reaching a point where the U.S. is

starting to get a firmer fix in detail on order of battle, the political

structure, the economy, and internal resistance groups. Our Center

visitors to Cuba, at a number of free world ports, have been estab-

lished. MI. McCone can provide details.

In the more dramatic sector, the infiltration of teams into Cuba,

CIA reports one team in place, a second team on the way, and two

more ready for next week. The pace was adjusted to ensure that

really competent personnel go in. It should be noted that this is

only one sector of the collection effort inside Cuba. Again, I defer

to MI. McCone for details.

CIA has identified seven resistance organizations inside Cuba,

as realistically potential. A hard assessment, up close, is still to

come. Under the revised plan for Operation Mongoose, proposals

for supplying arms and equipment to these groups will be submitted

to the Special Group for decision, ad hoc. No proposals have been

received.

On political activities, State reports that the Cuban government

was made aware that a deal for the prisoners could be made, through

the Italian UN mission. Also, as reported in the press, a refugee

delegation is seeing the Cuban government, to negotiate a deal. State-

ments calling for a fair trial and humanitarian treatment of the pri-

soners were stimulated from 9 Western Hemisphere chiefs of state

or foreign ministers, and in an OAS council resolution.

PHOTO COPY

FROM

GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY

PAGEI

- TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

PHOTO COPY

FROM

NW 53244 DooId: 32105760 Page 2

---

