# docid-32306613

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10290-10253

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-153

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/17/1961

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, BUSS, CAB CO., ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1 ,

DocId: 32306613

Page 1

195

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

No set

FEDERAL BURIAO DA iNGESTIGATI

AV

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 1 2 186

ALL INFORIATION CONTAINED

HEREI. IS UNGLAUSIFIED

ЕТУРЕ

URGENT

DATRS236N BY SET AL

3-17-619

PM JEC

Me. Prison

Mr.

Peradne

Mx.

Mr

Balt

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

IDa

Mr.

Err

Mr.

Mr. Roson

Mr. Taval

Mr. Tirw

Mr. W. Sultan

Tele. Rooin; *

Mr. Ingram

Miss Canow

DIRECTOR FBI

92-3171

MOM SAC PICAGO

: 92-349

3P

wishe

REQ (52

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY, ANTHONY CIROLIAMI, ALDERMAN

CHICAGO TONTACTED THIS DATE AT HIS REQUEST REGARDING EVANSTEN AND TREA

TOP CAN/COMERS. NOTED THAT CG INFORMANT REPORTED PREVIOUSLY OF

TOR CACHRIS. NOTED THAT CE INFORMANT REPORTED PREVOUSLY OF

GIANCANA-S. INTEREST IN THESE FIRMS• GIROLIAMI, FORMER LAW PARTNER AND

ASSOCIATE OF DECEASED ALDERMAN, PATSY PETRONE, CHICAGO, ADVISED CLOSEYELA

ASSOCIATED WITH FREL

BARTOLI AND SAM LEVINE, CURRENT OPERATORS OF BOTH

CAB FIRMS LISTED, GIROLIAMI STATED UNEQUIVOCALLY THAT GIANCANA HAS

ABSOLUTELY NO INTEREST IN EITHER RED TOP OR EVANSTON COMPANIES. HE

STATED THAT BARTOLI WAS FORMER VICE DASH PRESIDENT

FLASH CAB COMPANY

AND LEVINE WAS PRESIDENT OF VETERAN-S CAB COMPANY.

GIROLIAMI STATED

FLASH CAB COMPANY AND EVANSTON CAB COMPANIES HAVE HAD QUOTE RUNNING

FEUD ENQUOTE FOR PAST SEVERAL YEARS AND FLASH COMPANY HAS UTILIZED

CHICAGO POLICE OFFICER TO MONITOR TELEPHONE CALLS MADE

EVANSTON

Ild

CAB COMPANY AND SUBSEQUENTLY HARRASS EVANSTON DRIVERS AN EFFORT TO

DETER BUSINESS FROM EVANSTON COMPANY WHEN ASKED IT JOE GLIMCO HAD INTER+

EST IN FLASH CAB GIROLIAMI REPLIED IN NEGATIVE. GIROLIAMI INVITED INTER-

VIEWING AGENTS TO REVIEW BOOKS OF EVANSTON AND RED TOP CAB COMPANIES E

END PAGE ONE

REG 62.

92-3171-153

88 MAR 21 1961

57 MAR 2 9 1961

EX-108

DocId: 32306613

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

P

A

GE TWO

AT ANY TIME. HE SAID THAT BARTOLI AND LEVINE AFFORDED GIROLIAMI OPPORT-

UNITY TO INVEST IN BOTH CAB" COMPANIES, OPPORTUNITY DECLINED BY GIROLIAMI.

GIROLIAMI UNABLE TO IDENTIFY ONE BUTCH PAREN LNU ENPAREN, STATED BY

CHICAGO INFORMANT TO BE ACTUAL FRONT FOR GIANCANA IN THESE CAB COMPANIES.

ANOTHER CHICAGO INFORMANT, IS PRESIDENT OF FLASH CAB COMPANY, ADVISED

THAT JOE GLIMCO DOES NOT NOW OR HAS NEVER HAD ANY INTEREST IN FLASH

CABS. HE STATED HE HAS NEVER HAD PERSONAL CONVERSATION WITH GIANCANA

REGARDING UNIONIZATION CONCERNING EVANSTON CAL COMPANVE

INFORMANT RELAT-

BATSU

ED THAT BARTOLI AND LEVINE

168E TAS COMP

APPROXIMATELY FOUR YEARS

AGO FROM RUTH

PETRONE, WIDOW OF ALDERMAN PETRONE, MENTIONED ABOVE.

TRANSACTION /HANDLEBY

BERNARD BRODY, AN ATTORNEY AND FORMER LAW

PARTNER OF ALDERMAN PETRONE. THIS INFORMANT SAID THAT BARTOLI AND LEVINE -

HAVE EXPENDED ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS FOR NEW EQUIFMENT FOR EVANSTON

CAB COMPANY AND HE HEARD THAT EVANSTON CAB COMPANY HAS TAKEN IN FIVE NEW

PARTNERS WHO WERE ALLEGED QUOTE HOODLUMS UNQUOTE, IDENTITY UNKNOWN TO

INFORMANT. MIAMI REPORTS THAT RESERVATIONS MANAGER, SASTAVAYS MOTEL,

MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, ADVISED GIANCANA UNKNOWN TO THAT MOTEL UNDER TRUE

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32306613 Page 3

---

