# docid-32333711

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90107-10294

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

WANNALL

SULLIVAN

DATE:

03/28/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMANDOS LIBRES 66

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v91

DocId:32333711

Page 1'

111

---

## Page 2

7704

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassinator Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

i granges

OPTIONAL FORM NO.

UNITED STÄTES GOVERN

Memorandum

-Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

*Casper

Callahan

TO

W. C. Sullivan

FROM : W. R. Wannall Afte

• SUBJECT:

COMMANDOS L-66, alSO known as

1=66

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA.

85:82-0334

app

TED DEETS NEENATIED

MONSTERS (DRC)

CLASS

13N7 R

CONFIDA

DATE:

March

28, 1963

Mr.

Belmont

MT .,

J. P. Mohr

1

-

MI.

DeLoach

1

MT.

Evans

1

- Mr.

Sullivan

1

- Mr.

Wannall

CL.S-77SMTX

-N

Eyans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

¿Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes ----

Gandy

DATE CH

3

The Director has inquired concerning the ownership of Anguilla

Key in the Bahamas which was mentioned in our 3/27/63 memorandum as

being the base for an unsuccessful Alpha 66 expedition

against Cuba

in November, 1962. Anguilla Key is a British possession.

Upon recelot of the data concerningluse of Anguilla Key

by Alpha 66, we sent a memorandum to British Intelligence pointing ou

its use by the anti-Castro group CAt. the time we also advised the

Attorney General and all interested U. S. agencies.

that President Kennedy planned to visit the Bahamas on 1219/62,

sent a memorandum to Mr.

2 at infeet to time we 2150n

After learning

O'Donnell at the White House dated 12/12/62

concerning the matter.

In addition to the all-out investigation ordered concerning

captioned group's raid on Cuba during the night of 3/26-27/63, we are

pressing the investigations concerning the other three anti-Castro

groups involved in raids or contemplated raids against Cuba, which

investigations have been authorized by the Department. Instructions

were issued on 3/20/63 and 3/27/63 to interview all leaders and key

personalities of Alpha 66 who might have knowledge of contemplated raids

against Cuba, and similar interviews were ordered concerning the Second

National Front of Escambray leaders who aligned themselves

with Alpha

On 3/26/63 Miami was instructed to furnish the results of its

linquiries concerning possible raid plans of the Directorio Revolucion-

ario Estudiantil to the Bureau today, 3/28/63.

On 3/27/63 we gave

Miami a deadline of 4/5/63 to report

results of interviews and inques

concerning a recent raid on Cuba reportedly carried

pout by

soldier/of

fortüne Roy, Hargraves and some of his associates.

Last night we reiterated to key field offices previous

instructions issued in October and November, 1962, concerning the

necessity to maintain the best possible sources within the various anti-

Castro groups.

In addition, these offices were put on notice they would

be expected to cultivate members of anti-Castro groups who did not

necessarily qualify as sources and were to direct the activities.of

their

established sources toward the development of advanse cutormation

regarding proposed raids against Cuba.

REC- 48

105-117222

APR

5 1963

SANYAPRIS

(8p963

CONFIDER

DATZ

DocId: 32333711

Page 2

---

