# docid-32297559

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10335

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

: AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-1ST NR 1278

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HEGARTY, EDWARD D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/21/1964

24

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ABR, ASSOC, LCN, RACK ACT, MISUR, TESUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

-DocId: 32297559

Page 1

204

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

92-1027

28L8

In June 1904, PH 701-C* was developed as a possible

source of intoration conversand with

the daily aotivities of

RUSSELE BUPAZINO: To dates

thd.s

soreoe nas fuzadeed yalueble

Intelligence: data concerning SUPALIOts actlyibles.

Ic 1s an-

ticipated that this source will

portually esteblie BuPALINOts

stature In La Cosa Nostra affajra witch bas not baen clarified

to date;

81n0c last report, Pilladelphia has developed Ph 672-

C-Ts indo poures clains to

renter of la Cosa MasTe.

Itim

formatton furnished by him la balaz evaluated

and contamed

through ase

0f Fu 701-6%, A racently developed

Invosttentive

techntque::

P 623-0% 10 no 1o:0er ne Clonely ansoolatod vita

ANGELO BRUNO as ne tas in the pact.

Ao present, bide source is

not active.

It and men the opportuntty arless

te menctivate

thie excellent source; it v111

he done immediately.

Pu 591-Ce continues to furadah dally infomation on

activistes

FELER MAGGIO,

soldato of Philadelpht Family

Who 1e eLOSe tO ANGELO BRUNO and 12 BRUNO e brotarpiraw.

occasion bats source has provuied information cocceratin La

Cosa. Montra od Anestinable

values

Pereons Identifted ad raving been members or le

Cosa Mosbra

but une now deceased

nave been included in trie

report but mill be daleted in subacquent reports.

Information furnishod

: 0o^0rmning nenbore.1p by PR 251-0

(doceaned) ig being listed

in body of this pepoet booznse

or 1n

formontle plose assootation unile Living wita GUISHZED IDA, MARCO

REGINALET, aDd PAT MASSI.

Intonent clatred mile Aiving that

be had been devica to join

"enganization" hE JOSEPA GIRONVEY

but trac

te/bas dented bunittanes

Mom he pointed

out that be had

been a

merber of Carbladeri

1 Colalria, Italy.

Intonzanta

PH 1-1

PR 0-2

FIL 623-0*

Pit 591-C*

COVER PAGE

211-10:0?

DocId: 32297559

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FI 92-1067

Informanta (cont. )

IN 1-3

PD 572-0-25

contacted by SAs J. ROBERT

RSARCE,

JOSEEN A:

VERICA;

BAHAD 11.

IEGARDY,

Pu 1-5

PE 7-6

PR 7-7

PH 2-8

FE 599-0-DE

FI 251-0

(Deceased)

MR: 2251-09

PpI 637-0*

(Tracolve )

Pa 614-0-18

Contactod by SA FORGET A VERICA

PAGE

DocId: 32297559 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Jolm F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PIL 92-1027

TH p-I adriced on July 24, 1962 that AsUsIO

to

the wedding of ANGELO BRUNO'& daughter in

August 1962.

Ac this cing,

1t was decided

that there wuld be two liato of invitationa,

one pould be a mailing tias and the other a

Itos of dovisationa

to be hand caroled.

stated that as observed ANGERO BRUNO

uniting out sovoral listo..

On July 24, 1964

IL C-S obtained several of these liste

of which bore the folloring markings.

PHIL

CAPPELLA

SKIN

NICOLO

A

SCATIDE

SIMONIG

JOHN CAPPELCO

PALEX DE TULLIO

LICTIOLAS PICCOLO

ALBRISDO IEZZI

JOSEETI SCADIDI

PUT MASSI

JONLY SIMONE

It 2a possible the above is a partial or

complete 1iss or the Casodecind of the

Philadelphia Family.

Di T-3 nortued that

PHILIP TESTA ANd JORY CAFFRILO TerO both

made Capodecine by ANTONIO POLLINA during

the betel dented he tieo

"comporary boss"

of the aniladelphia Fantly.

The following alphabetion] Ilat ineluded the nemes

of ell nonbero thus far Identifted as menbons of the Philadel-

phia Dantly of La Cosa Nostrac

• 1i

DocId: 32297559 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection "Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

P: 92-2027

South Fhiladelphle,

hend log

01

edge: of for other numbera

operations; and the operation

oc

"Floating crap pones."

ANGELO BRINg has been in contact with Comminaton

Member,

CARLO CAMBING, according to ry 2-2, dupine pertod of

thôs reports:

PH 1-2 advined that contact ms partinity for

the purposo of alsouasing the autoles of the 0 * ll Realty

Conpony

(GAMETO God PETER MAGeTO) In which company SUE bAtO,

vite of ANCIL, has an interoat.

1-2 advinod on Pebruary

34, 26, 3964 that TENER

NAGGIO, Boldoto of Palladelphia Ventlys

a poobien he was having shich involved doE 60E51 of 3aJ-

cinone,

and threo additionel perions Identitted ne *ALEC,"

Do JOB GORDY

#Priend of oars"

and stated that ho did not

know if the other guy

Involved

#30 a good friend of ours.

ERUNO instructed MAUGIO to. "chect 1t out" and thea

sata that ho would tele it up with

"CARL"

and would explain 16

to hia.

At I-2 stated that he belseves "CARL" referrod to by

BRUNO SO CARL CAREINO.

BRUNO Cola MAGDIO and

PEI T-2 on Jebruary 24, 1964 that

he hod toèn with CARD y

beloved

to be CAMBINO,

severel. days

pnior to February at, 2964 and that he woute ado him again.

during dey éf Tehzary 20,

etopped by the police thide driving.

510-19332

DocId: 32297559

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: y 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITA

STATES DEPARTMENT OF LISTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107

July 21, 1964

LA COSA NOSTRA

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

Reference is made to report of Special Agent

EDWARD D. HEGARTY dated July 21, 1964, captioned as above.

The following are characterizations of informants

utilized in instant report:

PH I-1 Is a person who has been closely associated

with ANGELO BRUNO.

PH T-2

is a person who has been closely associated

with PETER J. MAGGIO.

РН T-3

1s a person of Sicilian - Italian extraction

who has been involved in illegal activities

throughout his life and has been closely

associated with numerous persons of Italian

extraction who have extensive arrest records.

PH I-4 is a person who has been closely associated

with numerous leading South Philadelphia

criminals of Italian extraction throughout

his adult life.

PH T-5 Is deceased but was during his lifetime a

close associate of GUISEPPE IDA, MARCO

REGINELLI, and PAT MASSI.

PH T-6

is a person intimately acquainted with ANGELO

DE CARIO Of Newark, N.J.

COPIES DESTROYED

€ 25 M: 118 1972

DocId: 32297559

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UbTED STATES DEPARTMENT OL, JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Philadeiphias

Pennsylvanta 19107

July 24, 1964

LA COSA NOSTRA

BLADELINA DEVISTON

Referance ta rinde to zapont of Speclal Agent

EDWARD D, INCARTY dated July 21, 1964, eptioned as above.

The following are characterizations of informints

utiz1zed in instant roport:

PH T-1

PH 0-2

PH 1-3

PH 7-6

to a porson who has boen closoly assoctated

ANGELO BRUNO

ts a person who has been closely ansooseted

with

PETER SA MAGOTO*

ls a person of Siciltan - Italtan extzaction

who has boon involved in illegal ecttvicles

throughout his life and has been closcly

oscocleted with numerous persons of Italtan

extraction who heve exCns]v a*zost sods•

to a person tho his been closely associated

with nunerous loading Souch Philadelphta

opininals of Italtan extraction throughout

hts adult 2180.

Is deccaned but was during his lifecine a

closo associate of CUISEPPE IDA, MARCO

RECINELLE, and PAZ MASSI

1a @ person Intimately acqueinted sith ANGELO

DE CARLO of Nevate N.J®

DocId: 32297559

Page 7

---

