# docid-32313351

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10328-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/28/1958

11

JOSEPH SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/19/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32313351

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USt 2107 late).

DATE: .11-14-2017

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

WASHINGTON FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

WASHINGTON FIELD

ISRAELI INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

(8)

Date:

5/28/58

Let 0-10 24-23, 28-30/1-4,

5/1,2,5-9, 12-16,19,20/58

Report made by

Typed By:

Im MALCOLM P. CARR

gar

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALE INDORSATION CONTAINED

HERDIN IS UNCLASSIPTED DXCEPS

LOTINEWISE.

ESPIONAGE - ISRAEL (S

Synopsis:

1-695

Classified by

Luck

DO NOT DISSEMINATE

JFA

RAFARL MEDALS ASSiStant Director of Press.

Israeli Delegation

the U. N.

observed to meet with OMAR DAJANY? employee

of (international Bank for_ Reconstruction and Development (S)

at Washington, D. C., 3/27458.

MEDAN Was observed to

After meeting DAJANY about noon

visited International Bank

Building about 3:00 R

leaving

building with newspaper folded under arm.

MEDAN returned

again to the building later in the evening and proceeded

from there to the airport

74/18/58, MEDAN met DAJANsor departure to New York.

On

They lunched together.

the evening of

4/18/58, MEDAN departed WDC via plane

NY stopping at

; Baltimore, Maryland.

On 5/12/58, MEDAL

again

visited WDC and was in contact with

unidentitied male whe

rented an automobile in the name of

A. ABIRS) Registration

records of automobile rental agency.

disclose original

application by this individual was made in the name of

ASHER ABIR, 1332 Peabody) Street, 1. No, With D.C,/arlver's

Approved

Copies made:

Bureau ((65-58700) 15

Atlanta

(Info)

(RM)

Special Agent

in Charge

Do not write in spaces below

(S)

(65/58700-

2/057

REC- 26

1

1

1

-

(65-4962)} (Info) (RM)IS

New York / (65-15150) (Info)

Washington Field ((65-5284) (S

21 JUN 2 1958

EX. -

123

_COPIES MADE

61.78

Chemor

FOR REVIEW AT FBIHO BY

53 JUN

6

1958

HSCA RE 425-28REQUEST.

SECRE

(SEE BUFILE #62-117290) /

Property of FBI — This report is loaned to you by the. FBI, and neither it nor

its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 O- 385319

DocId: 32313351

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WEO (65-5284) (5)

Permit, Number 5570715

He was said to be employed by

Protocol Records, State Department| disclosec

ASHER ABIR, Assistant Administrative Officer, terminated

presumadly to retur

since 1952. She advised she had indulged in sex acts with

on three or four occasions and described DAJANySas "queer

with women." DAJANyon 4/23/58, possibly visited 2912 North

the, address determined to be the

5/1958, DAJANY was observed in the vicinity-of 31st Street, North

Military Road, Arlington, Virginia, vicinity of SHIMON'S

residence, however, it could not be determined whether BAJANy

visited SHIMON's residence.

In June, 1950, SHIMON reported

he tapped telephone wires at Mayflower Hotel, WDC, during

Senate Investigation of HOWARD HUGHES.

_P -

110

DETAILS: AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Ve .

On March 27, 1958, Special

Agents of the

Federal

Bureau of Investigation (SAs of the FBI) observed RAFAEL MEDANS

Assistant Director of Press, Israeli Delegationsfo the United

Nations as he arrived at Washington National Airport on

Flight 345 of American Airlines at 10:37 a.m. He proceeded

to make a long distance telephone call

collect

to New York Number (uR 7-5980 ana then diparted

airport via taxi and proceeded to the Israeli Embassy.

the

an employee of the lInter-

They lunched together during

At one point DAJANY

which he took from

The three by five card was returned to an envelope type wallet

which MEDAN kept in an inside coat pocket. (

DAJAN! left the hotel approximately 2;25 p.m. but

Building.

At 5:25 p.m.

proceeded by taxi to the airport and departer

American Airlines, Flight 268, at 6:40 poM. (s)

-2 -

CRED

368-1909÷

DocId:32313351 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act of 1992 (44 USC-2107 Hote) .

DATE :

{11-14-2017

WFO (65-5284/9

car parked almost directly in front of 2912 North Stafford

At approximately 8:05 p.m. an individual,

described similarly to DAJANY vas observed sitting iI

front of a window inside of 2912 North Stafford.

At 8:46 p.m.

subject was observed sitting in his car conversing with an

unidentified male

standing beside the car.

Themidentified

nale was described as six feet, slender build, no coat,

Iressed in white shirt, dark hair. Further descriptior

was

nobtainable due to darkness. DAJANY departed from the

above address at 8:46 p.m. alone. ($ 6.

The current address telephone directory for

the

Washington, D. C., area, disclosed that "JOS. W. SHIMON,"

was listed as a residente of 2912 North Stafford Street,

Arlington,

Virginia.

On April 25, 1958, SA ROBERT H. KURTZMAN

determined from the Metropolitan Police

Department that JOSEPH

W. SHIMON, who resides at 2912 North Stafford Street, Arlington,

is a Captain of Detectives and

is in charge of the General

Investigations Squad.(d)Y)

On June 26 and 27, 1950, Lieutenant JOSEPH W. SHIMON,

identical with the Captain of Detectives mentioned before,

was interviewed

by SAS JOHN C. NEELY and CHARLES M. BEALL,

JR.,

in connection with another matter.

SHIMON reported that he

had tapped telephone wires at the

Mayflower Hotel in 1947

during the Senate Investigation of HOWARD HUGHES, Head of

Transworld Airlines. B14)

approximately four minutes. He then visited' the Pakistan Embassy")

residence, 2343 S street, N. W., where he was observed to

enter carrying a

small package and some Ilowas.

Approximately

fifteen minutes later, DAJANYsleft the above address with

two unidentifiedmales, all three

entering a 1956. Cadillac

bearing Diplomatio license Tumber 41/32

a chauffeur driven car.

A check of the District

of Columbia registrations

reflect that the above license

and car is registered to

the Ambassador of Pakistan. (5)

On the same evening DAJANY

was believed -to enter

2204 RJ Street, N. W., where he remained for several minutes.

The sCHOAD HOA, 2204 RStreet Was the mist of

C., area

Employees of Diplomatic Missions"

1958, published s

- 10 -1

DocId: 32313351 Page 4

---

