# docid-32326705

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992 741 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90056-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 183-737-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: DOJ/CRIM

TITLE :

DATE: 06/14/1976

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v91

DocId: 32326705

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Director, FBI

1-2100

SALVATORE AMARENA

AND OTHERS

RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND

CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS

ACTION MEMORANDUM

June 14, 1976

7777-Mr. Mintz

"I - Mr. Theisen

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD AdM...

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen, Iny.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell. we

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Eval..

Rec. Mgnt.

Spec, Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

Our San Francisco office advises that a confidential source is

furnishing them information regarding the current criminal activities

of Salvatore Amarena, Aladena "Jimmy the Weasel" Fratianno, and other

individuals. Amarena and the others are all notorious West Coast

organized crime figures and allegedly they are involved in Interstate

Transportation of Stolen Property, Extortionate Credit Transactions,

and Hobbs Act violations.

This confidential source is present when these individuals have

conversations regarding their criminal activities. The conversations

occur at Amarena's place of business in San Francisco and also the

confidential source"s apartment.

The confidential source has advised that she is willing to

cooperate and will testify in this matter. The confidential source is also

agreeable to the installation of a microphone in her apartment to record

her conversations between Amarena, Fratianno, and others.

Strike Force Attorney John Emerson advised that he feels the

confidential source's conversations with these individuals should be recorded

and he feels no entrapment is involved.

Your authority is requested for our San Francisco office to install

a microphone in the apartment of this confidential source in San Francisco,

California, for a period of 30 days-based on the consent furnished by the

confidential source

See Note Page

: 2

CUlA

PDS rar

(7)

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir..

.:. Dep.'AD Adr

Dep. AD Ini

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv..,,

MAIL ROOM L

5019/65854

Ext. Affairs...

Fin. & Pers..

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell,

2646/15/76

Laboratory...

Legal Coun. 31

Spec. Inv..

Training..

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32326705

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot 1 1992 144 U5C 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

NOTE: On 6/10/76, San Francisco requested emergency authority for use

on 6/10/76 in this matter. After conferring with Robert F. Peterson,

Legal Counsel Division, San Francisco was denied authority to use the

consensual monitoring without Departmental approval on an emergency

basis. Mr. Peterson, after reviewing pertinent Department of Justice

instructions in regard to the granting of emergency authority, stated the

facts presented by San Francisco did not warrant the granting of

emergency authority.

San Francisco is requesting approval for consensual monitoring

in the confidential source's apartment. This confidential source is a female.

San Francisco will be advised if this request is approved that they are not to

monitor listening or recording devices that would overhear or record any

intimacies that would conceivably arise between Amarena, Fratianno, or

others and the confidential source.

- 2=

DocId: 32326705

Page 3

---

