# docid-32308829

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10157

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-2881-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAVILLE, J. LEE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/20/1968

6

FCA, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, PEREZ, CHARLES ANTHONY,

AKA, RES, REL, ARREST RECORD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DoCId: 32308829

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Cuttertlut Aut of 1992

Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

the...

FD-263 (Rev. 3=8 57)

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

CHARLES ANTHONY

PEREZ, aka

Chick,

Chic

11/20/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA J. LEE SAVILLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/25 - 11/8/68

TYPED BY

mah

ITWI

-p-

CONVIC.

AUTO:

LEADS:

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS

if PEREZ is violating Federal Gambling Statute.

LOUISIANA, Will de termine

INFORMANTS:

an old-time bookmaker, had opened a sports and horse book

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX. MONTHS

CoNO

YES [

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

165-28811

2

REC65

EX-101

APPROVED

COPIESMAD

Bureau (165-288791

IAL AGENT

I-USA, New Orleans

2-New Orleans (165-1001)

- It

COPIES MADE,

DATE 20=1928 BY

Caraci

FOR REVIEW AT FBIHQ AND/OR DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE Dissemination Record) Anch

10 - 65-38

Dissemination

Attached Repor

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Organized

10om

How Ewd.

CC,

ANG, Criminal Division,

lucketering Section

39/68

By

59DEC

2-1968

DocId: 32308829

Page 2

FI NOV 22 1968

Notations

NINE

STAT.

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 19670-279-877

---

## Page 3

Released wier

the Jolt F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 111 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE :

11-14-2017

NO 165-1001

out of telephone numbers 949-4248, and 943-9738. He

stated PEREZ was being bankrolled

will take as high as a $1000 bet on a sporting event.

• Informant stated that undoubtedly,

in this type

of operation, will be in contact with Gulf Coast, Mississippi

gamblers as well as Las Vegas gamblers. Informant stated

PEREZ use to have good out of state gambling contacts when

he operated on a large scale.

For background, informant

said PEREZ worked with SAM DI PIAZZA in the early 1950's

but does not feel that PEREZ is affiliated with DI PIAZZA

Informant reiterated that he

felt that undoubtedly

PEREZ would be making interstate calls in his operation.

NO 1677-C-TE advised on

10/2/68, that PEREZ

is accepting wagers on football games and

this is all

that he books.

He advised that in the past PEREZ has

always worked for himself and has never been bankrolled

by anyone

that he knew of.

He advised PEREZ is not a

member of the New Orleans Athletic Club (NOAC) but that

a lot of the members bet with him.

TE did not know.

PEREZ's current bookmaking location but that he would

obtain the phone numbers and furnish them.

He further

advised that several years ago, PEREZ went deeply into

debt gambling and was

"bailed out" by BUCK KREIHS, but

he did not feel that KREIHS would be bankrolling

• PEREZ in

his bookmaking operations.

On 10/10/68, NO 1677-C-TE, advised that on the

weekend of 9/28-29/68, FRANK CARACCI placed his football

bets into CHICK PEREZ and he lost $3000 betting to PEREZ.

at aut to to tear der ta

TE advised that CARACCI informed him that he was betting

into PEREZ on behalf of "TICKEY" and TE believed thiss

On 10/15/68, NO 1677-C-TE, advised that he obsefved

PEREZ in the card room at the NOAC on 10/7/68 and during

a conversation with PEREZ, he determined that PEREZ was

accepting large bets from

had made bets totalling $12,000 for football games

played on the weekend of 10/5-6/68 number WH 9-4248

TE advised that

PEREZ furnished him with telephone

as a number where the TE could contact him and place

bets and obtain line information.

B

1012)

DocId: 32308829

Page

3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 165-1001

On 10/4/68, NO 1390-C-TE advised that he understood

another financial backer of CHICK PEREZ waS SAMMY KATZ, of the

Katz Finance Company of New Orleans:

Informant stated

that SAMMY KATZ used to be the individual who franced

HARRY BENNETT. (now deceased) the New Orleans and Mississippi

Gulf Coast gambler. Informant stated that the PEREZ book

is now operating on a very large scale for a local book

operation. They will take local football actions up to

$2000.

NO 1677-C-TE advised on 10/15/68, änd 10/22/68,

that CHICK PEREZ comes to the NOAC each Monday evening

to settle up with his customers.

He

advised that' FRANK

CARACCI is still betting with PEREZ and PEREZ has several

other customers at the NOAC.

TE advised that he did not

feel that BUCK KREIHS had any connection with PEREZ

other than the fact that he may have loaned him some money.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Arrangements are being made through the USA's Office,

to subpoena

949-4248 and 943-9738 for review and possible further

the toll records of telephone numbers

investigation.

C*

Jp.101?0

DocId: 32308829

Page 4

---

