# docid-32289767

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10043

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-941

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/25/1962

PAGES:

2'

SUBJECTS:

THP, ACT, POSSIBLE MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289767

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 144 U5C

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

FEDERAL BUREAU UF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 2 5 1962

TELETPE

in contains

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahen.

Mr.

Mr. De

Congre

Mr. Evand

Mr. Malone

Mr, Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingrem

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

1-25-52

1-52 PM CST EAH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

One Holier muce

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-350/ 2P

ANTIRACKETEERING

ALLEGED MEETING OF HOODLUMS, CHICAGO, JANUARY TWENTY FIVE, AR.

CHICAGO SOURCES AND INFORMANTS HAVE NOT AS YET BEEN ABLE TO FURNISH

ANY INFORMATION CONCERNING THE PROPOSED MEETING OF HOODLUMS IN

CHICAGO ON OR AFTER THIS DATE WITH THE EXCEPTION OF CHICAGO SIX FOUR

FOUR THREE DASH C WHO ADVISED THAT YESTERDAY ONE ANTHONY ALFERPIC,

§ ALSO KNOWN AS RAMIE DIED OF A BRAIN TUMOR AND IS BEING WAKED TONIGHT •

INFORMANT ADVISED THAT HE IS AWARE THAT RAMIE HAS A MULTITUDE OF

FRIENDS. IN THE GAMBLING ELEMENT THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AND THAT

MANY OF THESE GAMBLERS AND LESSER HOODLUMS WERE TELEPHONICALLY

CONTACTED YESTERDAY AND ADVISED OF THE WAKE AND THE FUNERAL SATURDAY•

NORMANT ADVISED THAT CHICACO TOP HOODLUM LES KRUSE MADE MALE WAS

CALLS AND THAT HE INTENDS TO GO TO THEONAKE

misinis

A JUICE MAN AND GAMBLER WHO FOR MANY YEARS HAS OPERATED

13 JAN AT THE LARGE

QU-1902

GAMBLING CASSINOS IN THE CHICAGO AREA. FOR A LONG PERIOD OF TIME

END

PAGE

ONE

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

9

58 FEB 5

1962

DocId: 32289767 Page 2

---

