# docid-32306856

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10290-10496

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2504

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/24/1969

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, INDUCTION, CEREMONY, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306856

Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I Kennedy Assassinatzon

Records Collection Act of 1992/191

I1-14-2017

FD-36 TRev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

SUBJECT:

FBI

Date:

1/24/69

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, PHILADEIPHIA (92-1027) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR

00: PHILADELPHIA

Re Philadelphia airtel to Director, co Newark,

1/20/69.

The following is information obtained since

referenced airtel in regards to an induction ceremony being

planned by the Philadelphia Family La Cosa Nostra (LCN).

PH 672-C-TE advised SA J. ROBERT PEARCE, 1/21/69,

that ANGELO BRUNO, night of 1/20/69, personally instructed

him to Contact JOSEPH SCAFIDI and request SCAFIDI to meet

BRUNO at Philadelphia night of 1/23/69.

Informant telephonically

furnished BRUNO's request to SCAFIDI but he did not know the

He purpose of the meeting.

IHE FOLLOWING IS HIGHLY SENSITIVE

HANDLE WITH

UTMOST CAUTION TO PROTECT INFORMANI

3-Bureau

(92-6054) (RM)

4-Newark

(RM)

92-6054-2504

2-92-1203

4221

1-92-1809

1-92-2776

JOSEPH SCAFIDI

JOSEPH PERELLA

4 JAN 25 1908

4-Philadelphia

1-92-1027

1-92-7331

*(JOSEPH SCAFIDI

:01-02-2045 (JOSEPH PERELIA

1-137-4049 (PH 672-C-Tр)

JRP: PNJ

(11)

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306856 Page 2

---

## Page 3

14-2017

PH 92-1027

on 1/23/69 PH 672-C-TE advised as follows:

JOSEPH SCAFIDI was driven from Bridgeton, N.J., to

Philadelphia, Pa., by LCN Member VINCENZO TURCO. Informant

Informea ANGELO BRUNO a SCAFIDI's presence, resulting in

PH 672-C-TE.

told SCAFIDI that the delay of induction of new members has

been caused by refusal of JOSEPH RUGNETTA Consulleri, Philadelphia,

JOSEPH SCIGLITANO, Capodecina,

Chester, Pa., and NICHOLAS PICCOLO,

New versey, philadelnia, to attend an Induction ceremony "In

and expressed their desire to hold induction

ceremony in Philadelphia.

SCAFIDI complained that this was not good as the FBI

followed ANGELO BRUNO around. BRUNO said there was some "S.O.B."

BRUNO

believed Vineland, N.J., site, La Rosa Restaurant would have

one from Vineland, undoubtedly JOSEPH PERELLA, Owner, La Rosa

Restaurant, and one from Philadelphia. Source

believes candidate

from Philadelphia will be either Philadelphia subjects, FRANK

SINDONE OF FRANK IANNARELIA, also known as "Snuffy"

• both of whom

work with PHILIP TESTA in TESTA's loansharking and

illegal numbers activities.

BRUNO said he will "see who he has to see" and will

keep SCAFIDI advised. Informant believes BRUNO will contact

member of Commission, ICN.

DENARO said that the reason RUGNETTA, SCIGLITANO and

PICCOLO do not want to go to New Jersey was because they, all

of whom are members of the Calabrian Group, Philadelphia

Family LON, have no candidate for induction.

Informant believes possibilities of induction night

of 1/26/69 are remote but states it is possible depending on

how quickly ANGELO BRUNO contacts the unknown person he made

reference to above.

-2 -

DocId: 32306856 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TE:

P1-14-2017

PH 92-1027

PH 672-C-TE has been Invited and will meet with

JOSEPH SCAFIDI, Sunday, 1/26/69

and will telephonically

advise Philadelphia Office that day 1f induction ceremony is

to be held.

Informant again,

1/24/69, advised he would not be

jeopardized if ceremony raided.

Bureau and Newark will be kept advised.

ANGELO BRUNO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED

AND DANGERO US.

- 3

DocId: 32306856

Page 4

---

