# docid-32152702

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATIONSYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released

under

the

John

Kennedy

assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992

144 USC

2107

Note!.

Case$ : NUT

53130 Date:

06-01-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10098-10125

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-635X, 635X1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:' DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: WATSON, MARVIN

TITLE:

DATE: 11/08/1966

PAGES: 22

SUBJECT:

WC, LANE, MARK, ACT, ASSOC, INTERVIEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/03/1996

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC LHM, MEMO, NEWS ARTICLE

NW 53130 DocId: 32152702

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1,81

GATIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 COITION

OSA GEN. REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

MR. CALLAHAN

FROM : H. N. BASSETTIN

DATE: February 3, 1975

Assor. Dir.

Dep. AB Ad

dm

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Con.

Gen. Inv.

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory

Plan. & Evol.

QUECT: INFORMATION CONCERNING WASHINGTON STAR NEWS

ARTICLE, 1/31/75, REGARDING HALE BOGGS' SON

C) CLAMING POSSESSION OF FILES ON

WARREN COMMISSION CRITICS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED S

_ROT 15 UNGLASSIFIEO

BACKGROUND

164-22-93 BY 9503 800/42

JFK SPECIAL

The Washington Star News, a Washington, D. C., dally newspaper,

Panel."* The article quotes Tom H.YBoggs, Jr., son of the late Representative

Hale Boggs, as claiming that in 1970 his father gave him dossiers which the

FBI compiled on critics of the Warren Commission in an attempt to discredit

them. According to the article, Boggs' son stated "they weren't basically sex

files. They had some of that element but most of the material dealt with left

wing organizations these people belonged to. "

Tom H. Boggs, Jr., declined to identify all 7 of the critical authors

but stated that writer Edward J. Epstein and lawyer Mark Lane were among

the individuals whom he had information regarding. Boggs, Jr., reportedly

stated that the information given him by his father included a photograph of

one of the 7 engaging in an unnatural sex act with two women.

REVIEW OF BUREAU FILES

In a review of Bureau files by the Inspection Staff, no evidence was

found that any information of this nature was ever disseminated directly to

Hale Boggs from the FBI.

However, the Bureau file review indicates that on November 8, 1966,

memoranda were furnished to Marvin Watson, Special Assistant to President

Johnson, at the White House, setting forth pertinent information contained in

Bureau files regarding background on seven individuals who wrote unfavorable

articles concerning the Warren Commission Findin i 62-109080-6357

Enclosure - bent

2/1/25

1- Messrs. Adams, McDermott, Mintz

CONTINUED - OVER

JTK :bhg (5)

HH 53489л Nocod/Q7452702

Page

---

## Page 3

01 M

AEL INPORMARION CONTAINED

HARDIN IS UNCDASSIFIED EXCEP

WORE SHOWN OTHERVISE.

96

CLASSIFIED BY 56681

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

slison

leLoach

ohr

'ick

asper

allahan

'elt

ale

osen

ultivon

cide

cotie:

de. Room A.

andy

SECRET®

November 8, 1966 5170 HOBIKSL

11- 4/93 ПН

INFOFFATION CONTAINED

MASSIFIED

RE SHowgl

4-221-93

"THICSWALD HEFAIR!

000 K/

BY

initial by 9803eDN

LEO SAUV AGE 2

WIS

suremato

JFK

Leo, Sauvage as born on February 23, 1913, at

spaciral

Nancy,..

France.

In 1964 he was reported as a correspondent and

NY

chief of the New York Bureau of "Le Populaire," a French socialist

newspaper. He also has been reported as a correspondent for the

French publication "Le Figaro.

In 1951 it was reported that Sauvage was a member of

a small group of individuals close to Louis Dolivet who was refused

reentry to the United States due to his suspected communist and

Comintern background.

(100-23792-148)

In October, 1953, information was received that Leo

Sauvage, "Le Figaro," 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York fity, re-

spondied to an invitation extended by the Polish Consulate, New York LfX4

City, to attend a showing of the(Folish)ilra, "Peace Wifl Win," to be LATYU/

sisown un November 30, 195i, at the Museum of Modern Art, New York

City. Co

(100-350264-1183)/

According to a statement filed with the Department of

Justice, Foreign Agents Registration Section, the French Press Agency

(FPA) in January, 1954, listed Leo Sauvage, 270 West End Avenue,

New York City,

as an employee of that agency. WIn May, 1954, while

sauvage was still employed by the FPA, it was reported that|the chief LA

of the Washington Bureau of the Soviet Tass News Agency)utilized

personnel of the ERA to secure intelligenee information.

(105-28250-2 and 3)

[In September, 1956, it was alleged that one Leon Seuvage,.

28 rue Marcel Royer, Gennevilliers, France, was one of a number of

individuals employed by the French Communist Party Headquarters, Paris,

France.

It is not known if this individual is identical with captioned author

64-200-231-1559 page 5)

The March,

1964, issue of "Commentary," a monthly

magazine published by the American Jewish Committee, contained an

article by Sauvage entitled "The Oswald Affair." This article attacks the

findings of the Warren Commission concerning the assassination of former

President John F. Kennedy and suggests that Oswald was unjustly, presumed

to be guilty of the assassination due to prejudiced press and television.

coverage.

(105-82555-3531)REVIEWED BY SHUFK TASK FORCE

JHC:jah

A S19 S00

x4250

X RELEASE IN FULL

TELETYPE UNITI

ENGLOSURI IN PART ASE

SECRET

• TOTAL DENIAL

62-107890-635X

HH 53130

DocId: 32152702

Page 3

---

