# docid-32290081

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10357

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-319

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/25/1962

5

CIP, GAMBLING ACT, MS GULF COAST, CM, LEGAL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

MATTER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, OTHER NON-TEXTUAL

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ENV, THERMOFAX

v9.1

DpcId: 32290081

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Tolm F. Kennedy Assassination

Reco

RAL 21345-3877

Simon

F B

Date:

5/25/6201

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

delection not of 197n Tous

USC 2107-Hotel.

Mr. promon

Mr. Mohi-

Mr. Callahen

Mar. Cored

Mr. De

Mr. Eva:

Mr. I a

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Silisand

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trobber.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes -

Miss Gandy.

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50) (P)

RE:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MISSISSIPPI GULF COAST

Informant 1090-C, on 5/21/62 advised that IVAN ORRELS,

aka., Lanky Orrels, was still operating Bob & Joe's Lounge,

Biloxi, but that an Airman from Keesler AFB was badly cut

in a brawl within the past several nights and the informant

believes that Sheriff CURTIS DEDEAUX may close this bar.

The

informant advised that at the present time this bar is being

frequented by two or three local girls.

Investigation is pending to determine if ORRELS or

ELDON JUNIOR LEGAN have violated the ITAR Statute. • LEGAN iS

a twenty one or black jack dealer at Bob & Joe's wounge.

CARLOS MARCELLO

AR

For. the information of the Bureau, there is

enclosed herewith a thermofax copy of the Government's answer

to the application for

a Writ of Coram Nobis filed by

ENCLOSURE

3-Bureau Encle 2)

½ Sealed REC. 23

(2-92-50)

62-9-22-5191

(1-166-35)

(1-92-36)

11 MAY 29 1962

(1-92-346-J)

RLK/1am

(8)

C. C.. Wick

Approved:

JUN 6

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32290081

Page 2

---

