# docid-32304452

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10286-10082

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-1ST NR 131, 2ND NR 131, 3RD NR 131

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEG, PA

DATE: 12/23/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOP, REL, NCK, EMP, CP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 2 MEMO

N9.1

DocId: 32304452

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Colleetion Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

original & 2 san

ancisco

JACKSON

SAC, San Francisco

(200-1665)

(200-40326)

Director, FBI

(100-353702)

100-30069-

X100-40386)

JOAN PITTIN

INTERNAL SECURITY * G

Decenber 30,

2959

DEUNEI

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

10-20-44 588 Macinde

MARGARITE RIPTUAN

INTERMAL SECURITY 0

Declassify On: OADA

7tk)

Reference is made to your leûter dated 12-21-59

Bureau letter dated 12-23-59 to

the Legal Attache

Paris, with coples to you, in the captioned matter.

nany of tie

names contain en i maderer bone or s-

been,

Communist Farty Functionarice.

Thie as to

be expected and it is not belleved that any particular

signijicance could be attached to those entries

view of pitinan's long history of commmiat ectiuities

and associations.

Consequently, in your review, your

primary purpose should be to ascertain whether any of

Pittman's contacte are with individuals concerning whom

there is good reason to suspect that there is some

subversive connection other than their normal communist

ajfiliation.

For crample, is you find a person in o

delicate position included in' the address books concerning

whom there is no know normal reason for Pittnon to

contacty

this matter should be pureued.

NOTE:

Subjects key figures san Francisco Office.

Are

currently residing Moscow, Russia, where John Pittman is

employed as Moscow correspondent for "The Worker,"

communist publication. Irench authorities obtained old

address books of Pittman during his visit in Paris while

en route to Russia.

hundreds of names of individuals, for the most part known

CP members or functionaries, that Pittman has associated

with during his long history of CP activity.

San Francisco

Office is currently analyzing the information contained in

the address books pursuant to bureau instructions (3)

(6)

SECRET

YELLOW

DUPLICATE

DEC 3 0 1959

MAILED

JAN 6 1960

143

DocId: 32304452 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI

(200-33702)

(100 30067)

18/21/59

SAC,

San Francisco (100-1465)

800103

Đn 50 BA

641089 28 tea

JOHN

PITTIAN

IS-C

MARGARETE PITTMAN

IS-C

600:

SF)

ReBulet dated 10/28/58, captioned as above, which enclosed a

gopy of a letter fron the legal

Attache, Paris, dated 10/15/59,

together with gy photographs of material obtained from the effects of

JOIN PITTUAN in Paris by the Direction de la Survelllance du Territoire

(DST) /51

The photographs contain names of hundreds of individuals (S

together with a few addresses,

both donestic and foreign The San

trancisco ottice appreciates the interest of the Bureau in cooperating

with the request of the legal Attache,

" Paris, regarding the nanes of

possible espionage agents among the nanes contained in the lists C5J

maintained by PITTAN and toward this end is searching all names

through the San Francisco indices in an effort to obtain further

Identilying data, Cince in many instances there are no addresses and {S

in all instances

there is no identifying data. The San Francisco Office

has volunes of search slips and is diligently reviewing the references

the results ot wich will be furnished the Bureau and auxiliary oifices

as soon as possible in order that the significance of the appearance ofLS)

the nones in the effects of PITIMAN can be analyzed

and furnished the

Bureau and Interested Legal Attaches.

When further identifying date is

obtained, or possible identifications

are obtained,

the Bureau may then

desire to check the nanes through Bureau indices and have field offices

covering the residences of the individuals furnish information avallable

in their indices.

The San Francisco Office will give this matter contimuous

attention and advise the Bureau as soon as possible.

6. Bureau

AIR HAIL - REG.

(2 - 100-333702)

12 - 100-30067)

(2 - Legat, Paris, 100-1038)

(1 - 100-1465)

NOT RECORDED

78 DEG 24

1959

WHK: 1cm

- 120-3PECKE

, ORIGINAL FILED

DocId: 32304452 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Hf"

Legal Attache,

Parsa (200-1050)

SECREZ

Deconder 23, 1959

Direator, Dar (200-390702; 100-30032)

JORN PITIAD

INTERNAL SBOURITY C

GECHER

ATE: INTORMACION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED REGU

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

MARGANSES A OLSE

INTERDAE

SECURERS

10-2014

Fiacsified by Ste Malance

Declassify on: OADR/5FK

te mode

letter datod Novenber 29,

Colate a amore a tens so tree tomato dess

into llagenoo Baptonage

Jerudoe dated. November 6,

1959, which

tranaleted at she

sureau and The names

Liated chereto cheesed

agoines Buffles.

unso check

oould not be 100% complete because

dordass of

names were illegible

and there tao a lack of

mufflotent identorying date concerning a number of others.

However,

0e a roule of this

soarch and in response

to the

speoifte question

asked by the French

tyso whether any Soufed agende could de identifted

Pron the names

Isased

• in Presman'e address

• booke.

the ensuer is in

the negatives

Ar

You nay desira

to g10e

the french

D

following information.

No was to be capeetoda

o great najorsey of the individuale who could

he edenceptad are linoun to be or to have been comestod ouch sho

Gemminod Party.

OSA, in varying degrees.

Thie Eneludes a consideras20)

numbor of individualo to Anus concributed artioles do communios

Thore gore also mmerous

Rameo of individualo uho were

apparently business contaote of pitiman'o in the publishing ond

Interary fielde.

100.30067

© = Dan Franoteoo (100-1005) (200-40206)

NOT RECORDED

128 DEC 30.1959

YELLOW.

1 - Foreign Liaison Untt (route through for review)

DUPLICATE

DEC 8 3 1959

NOTE ON YELLOW:

MAILED

subjeots, husband and wife,

are key figures of San Francisco.

office,

Both are currently residing in Moscow, Russia, where John

Pittman is the Moscow correspondent for the "Daily Worker."

en route to Moscow during a stopover in paris, Trance, the French Ls)

, FILED

authorities obtained photographs of address books of Pittman's dating

back to the early 1950's. Investigation of Pittman has been conducted

over many years and mas revealed that this subject nas been most

active in the communist Party particularly in the communist

publishing field. His wife has also been associated with communist

publications for years and was editor of the "German American,

a German communist publication in New York City

She is currently

preparing articles for the

publication, while in Moscow.

"peoples world," a west coast communist

I JAVEnGAN (9) 1960 743)

SECRET

DocId: 32304452 Page 4

---

