# docid-32288850

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10200-10126

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1432

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A

TO: BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/22/1963

3

THP, ACT, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32288850 Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Top

1/00

•um

Corea age

"""-

• "'OPTIONAl FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

& ENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Belmont Art

DATE: November 22, 1963

FROM

C. A. Evans

Toison -

Belmont _

Mohr

Casper -

Calahan

Conrad

DeLoacht

Evar

Gale

Rose

Sulliv

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

sandy -

SUBJECT:

A ACTIVITTES OF TOP HOODLUMS

CHICAGO AREA

Decen 5+0 1943

9

This is to inform you of developments

arising from the

murder. of LeolForeman, an alleged enforcer for loan

shark operator

Sam DeStefano of Chicago.

Foreman, an ex-convict, former wrestler

and onetime bondsman, had been missing since November 14, 1963,

when his body was discovered November 18, 1963, in the trunk of his

leased automobile.

He had been stabbed in the

back and in the

chest and had been shot twice.

Chicago Police confirmed that he had visited at DeStefaño's

home on the day he disappeared.

DeStefano told police that Foreman

had talked and played cards with him for about two hours on-the day

he was reported missing.

Chicago Police advised that Foreman was

DeStefano's front man and in their opinion DeStefano was responsible

for his death.

Foreman had been used as an informant by the Chicago

Police Department for Ted past year.

Approximately a month ago a "little black book" belonging

to Foreman fell into the hands of the Chicago Police. This book;

has entries

showing Foreman met Chicago Municipal Judge Cecil. Corbett

Smith at least a half dozen times in the last six months and that he

had contacted various other individuals, including Lieutenant Harry

Smith, and Detectives

Joesph/Tye and George/@'Brien of the Chicago

Police Department;

Ben Stein,

labor racketeer; Kay /Jarrett,

prostitution

madam;.

and Morris Klein.

of the Cook County,

"Illinois,

sherift's office.

Chicago Police made the black book available to

Reporter Sandy Smith of "The Chicago Sun," and he wrote a front page

story November

20, 1963, concerning the contacts listed therein.

CG 6560-PCI on

was told that his "fat friend," Leo Foreman, was dead. The informant

stated that Foreman

killed because he owed DeStefano $7,000 on

"juice" loans (usurious interest loan), which he refused to

pay, and

also that he was an

informant for the FBI in Chicago.

Chicago advises

Foreman was not its informant

and that he was contacted August 22,

1963,

"to the lwnereabouts of Carol Jean Smith, alsc

as Denise Nelson, who had failed'to appear in court last

August

following her earlier'farrêst

a charge of Interstate Transportation

of Stolen Property.

the basis of

Foreman's

Intana ste was sentene, sovereia,, 1963.

1 Th. NCK

DrC181505

11 DEC 13 1963

COPY SENT TO MR. TOLSON

JGL: rap (7)

NW 45760 DocId: 32288850

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

Re:

Activities of Top Hoodlums

Chicago Area

Foreman telephonically contacted a Chicago Agent November 13, 1963,

stating he had heard of an FBI inquiry as to whether Smith was

involved with counterfeit checks and that he desired that he be

contacted if any further information was desired. No arrangements

were made to interview Foreman as a result of this call.

Chicago advised that Municipal Judge Cecil Corbett Smith

was removed from his bench November 21, 1963, by Chief Jutice Bowe.

Bowe took this action following a telephone call from DeStefano,

who, according to Judge Bowe, furnished derogatory information about

Judge Smith.

Donald Sullivan, a representative of "The Chicago American"

newspaper, telephonically contacted the Special Agent in Charge (SAC)

at Memphis late in the evening of November 20, 1963, and requested

the identify of a polygraph operator in the Memphis area, indicating

that he was in the company of a judge in Chicago who was

Whe SAC advised Sullivan that he could make no recommendation and

in van that ho cout

knew of no polygraph operator in Memphis.

Reporter Sullivan also

inquired about a detective agency in Memphis and was advised that

the FBI was not familiar with any such agencies and could make no

comment.

cho can

Memphis advises that Chief of Police J. C. MacDonald received

similar

requests from Sullivan and had refused to make a recommendation.

Memphis received information subsequently that the judge involved

was named Smith and that he was currently mentioned in the murder

matter in Chicago.

Following the contact with our Memphis SAC, "The Chicago

American" newspaper indicated that Chief of Police MacDonald and the

SAC recommended a polygraph operator.

As a result of this, Chief

MacDonald said he was conferring with the City Attorney, as to

possible action against "The Chicago American" for false reporting.

On November 22, 1963, reporter Sullivan telephonically contacted

the Memphis Office and denied having indicated that the SAC or the

Chief of Police had recommended a polygraph operator or a detective

agency.

Chicago received information November 21, 1963, from

who has furnished reliable information in the

past,

to the effect

that

Thad been talking to an

individual known as "pix," an associate

of DeStefano and Foreman.

"Pix" reportedly indicated he was aware

prior to Foreman's death

that he was to be killed and heard about

his death about two hours after the killing and before the body was

found.

"Pix" allegedly said that DeStefano had asked him for Carol

- 2 -

OTHER 4

NW 45760 DocId: 32288850

Page

3

---

