# docid-32404154

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

:104-10331-10024

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:MW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DAVID D. GRIES, D/CSI

TO : DCI, DDCI

TITLE

MEMO: • COMMENTS ON DRAFT DECISION MEMO ON TASK FORCE ON

PROCEDURES FOR THE PUBLIC RELEASE OF INFORMATION UNDER

FOIA, PRIVACY ACT, AND OTHER PROGRAMS

DATE :

01/07/1993

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : RECOMMENDATION

JEK ASSASSINATION.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS •

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

:04/23108

JFK-M-16: F2 2000.02.08.07:45:08: 653054

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10024

HH 53217

DocId: 32404154 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CSI-0005/93

7 January 1993.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

FROM:

David D. Gries

Dirate rigenter for the study of

SUBJECT:

Comments on Draft Decision Memo on Task

Force on Procedures for the Public Release

of Information Under FOIA, Privacy Act, and

Other Programs

1. I strongly endorse your decisions on the task

force's recommendations.

They should provide a potential

basis for strengthening the Agency's release programs.

In

particular, I would strongly support additional resources

for the Do; their lack of

resources has caused recurring

bottlenecks in the Historical Review Program and other

programs for public release of Agency information.

2.

I have one specific recommendation. The section

dealing with the relationship of the C/IRP to the Historical

Review Group (paragraph 2, b on page 2) could be interpreted

as providing C/IRP authority to weaken the Group's release

guidelines (which were established in accordance with your

guidance that the program be "biased toward declassifica-

tion").

I suggest that the following be added at the end of

the paragraph:

"This is not to result in a weakening of the

guidelines for release of historical documents or a

lessening of HRG's authority to release as described in

HR 70-14. "

Davia

DC:

EXEC

F50

NH 53217 DooId:32404154 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'i?

SUBJECT:

Comments on Draft Decision Memo on Task

Force on Procedures for the Public Release

of Information Under FOIA, Privacy Act and

Other Programs

CSI (JBarry /34223/7Jan93)

Distribution:

Orig- Addressee

1 - Exedutive Director

- Executive Registry

1

- D/CSI

1

- C/HRG •

1

- C/HS

1 - CSI Chrono

53217

Do01d:324041J4

Page

---

