# docid-32302334

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10281-10054

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 109-584-4410

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:, FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/15/1966

4

MAB, ACA, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

19.1

DocId: 32302334

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection At

DATE: iV 5122-62017

lote).

FBI.

Date:

7/15/66

Transmit the following in

mind hills: be

'Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTELALI

LOEARYATION

LE SH0N

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM:

SAC, WEO (105-29955) (RUC)

ANTI FIDEL. CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS CUBA

(00:MM)

10-11-97

JFK

141-99

Declassity on OADR 26 BU

721526.

ReBuairtel 6/30/66 and San Juan let and LHM 7/6/66.

Enclosed are nine copies to the Bureau,

two to Miami,

Yand one each for New York and San Juan for info of a LHM and

memo of evaluation dated and captioned

as above.

the second intormant mentioned in the enclosed ta to source

The first informant mentioned in the

1683-S.

information MIGUEL A. CAMPA, who is protected by request.

furnished information to SA DONALD HOETING.

The LHM is classified "Confidential" since the data

reported could reasonably result in the identification of two

confidential informants of continuing value and compromise

pir future effectiveness.

3/17/78. 1S6/PE8

copies madoof LiAR

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO / DIA

ONI/OSI/ACSI

y routing slip for inte

19/6k

2/22/02

Bureau (Enc.

2

1

Miami (Enc.

New York (Enc.

4105-1742)

05277-35253

(Info) (RM)

2

San Juan (Enc.

∞ WFO

00109-44) (IN1O) CRNREC54109-584

X[13455660 Sub A(e)

DH: bmr

(9.)

it St:100

JUL 15 1966

AIRTEL

44/19

Approved:

70 JUL 251966

Special Agent in Charge

Sent -

Per

DocId: 32302334

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (11 Use 2107 Wote).

DATE:

11-

4-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UN, ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF *

• JTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PONFIDENTAL

PeRONG MAL

CONFIDENTIAL

Washington, D.C. 20535

ALL INFORMATION GOTTAINED

HERE NIT

ivan. 20

EXCEED WAR 6 BRUNN

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

HEREIN

«CLASSIMED

-INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JERE SHOWE

OTHERWISE

On July 13, 1966, a confidential

about two weeks ago an individual known as Evilio, strella,

informant advised that

Cuban, whom the informant described as possibly coming originally

from the Cuban Province of Pinar del Rio, appeared at the Pan

American Union (PAU) in Washington, D.C.

Estrella went to the

office of another Cuban, Guillermo-Belt, who never met Estrella.

and asked if Belt could get

secretary of PAU to type a small one

The informant learned from Belt, who is employed in thel

Department of Administrative Affairs of the PAU, that the memoran

dum which was handwritten in the Spanish language and contained

many spelling and grammatical errors,

was of no real substance,

It merely recognized the need for unification among Cubans and the

establishment of a Cuban Government In Exile. The memorandum then

set out a long list of names of various Cubans who were to partici-

pate in the exile government. The informant recalled the following:

President - Carlos Marquez Sterling, former Cuban

Presidential Aspirant in 1958

07-74

United Nations Representative - Emile/Nunez Portuondo,

former Cuban Senator and United Nations

Representative

V.

s. y

ambassador to the United States - Guillermo Belt/Ramirez,

father of the Belt employed at PAU and former-

2, Cly Cuban Ambassador to the United States

Secretary of Mar - Manuel Artime, one of the leäders of

the Bay of Pigs invasion

spompenses of staff o the Army - Quirinouria, formerly held

a post

the Grau administration

#211,326.

Classified by SP8BT2/gel

CONFIDENTIAL

Declassify on: (ADR 3/26/84

GROUP I

Excluded from automatio

downgradisg and

destassification

DEGLASSIFIED BY SAAMACINSP

818-4-94

MONE

CS MENTIAL

ENOLOSURE

109-584-4410

DocId: 32302334 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 210.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

CONF

AL

CONFIDENTIA!

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

OREX ENTA

и)

Ambassador to the Organization of American States -/

cubA

Evilio Estrella.

The informant also learned from Belt at the PAU that & U

the memorandum was originally to be taken by Estrella to the

White House and presented to the President of the United States.

However, after the memorandum was typed and in good form, Estrella

decided

to take it to the United States Department of State (USDS)

and present it to the person in charge of Cuban affairs

in this meetie street messe the concerta

USDS would immediately recognize the group as the first Cuban

Government in Exile opposed to the government of Fidel Castro.

The informant related that Belt considered the entire matter

unimportant and dismissed the idea.

A second confidential informant advised on July 13, 1966)

that he has been a very close friend of Carlos Marquez Sterling

for many years. He recently received a letter from Sterling

which did not mention one word of the scheme of Estrella and

the fact that Estrella "appointed" Sterling as head of the Cuban

Government in Exile.

The informant felt that had this been an

would have learned of it before now.

Both informants considered this just another attempt by

another Cuban exile to establish a government in exile; placed

no importance on the matter and

could furnish no additional

information concerning 1t. (

(и)

Belt's position was verified through the "Telephone

Directory" published by the PAU March, 1966.

This document contains neither

recommendations

nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your ngency;

it and its

contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

GONFIDENFIAL

955 EmA

- 2% -

'AL.

DocId: 32302334 Page 4

---

