# docid-32404520

## Page 1

Date:

03/11/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10332-10007

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-DECLASS STDS

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

ARRB-CIA ISSUES: EMPLOYEE NAMES

DATE

PAGES

: 01/07/1994

:,3435

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

UNIT INDEX

ARRB ISSUES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

SECRET

1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/01/03

COMMENTS

JFK-M-17 : F8

: 2000.02.14.15:12:41:437044 : UNIT

INDEX:

54- PAGES ARE DIFS

45

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10332-10007

HW 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

7 January 1994

file

(DO guidelin.

navues

Cuba)

MEMORANDUM FOR:

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

FROM:

Bryant Rogers

SUBJECT:

MEETING WITH

JEK Act 6

JFK Act 6

(2) (0)

REFERENCE:

On 6 Jan we met with

known Cubans and Cuban Organizations.

from the DO to discuss HP.G concerns with regard to CIA's contacts in the 60's with well

The outcome of this discussion was that the DO agrees that we can release the names of those major players with whom CIA

worked with as long as we stay within the 60-63 time frame, with some overlap into 1964 for continuity, when needed. We then

discussed our relationships with major anti-Castro organizations. It was agreed that we could release the fact that as a funding vehicle

for the US Govt, CIA provided support including funding in general terms. In some cases we may find it necessary to reveal gross ballpark

figures for annual budgets. The DO would prefer that we continue to protect specific funding amounts where possible. They were

specifically concerned about releasing specific amounts paid to individuals or families of Bay of Pigs members where individuals could

claim that one was paid more than another. In supporting these organizations it was acknowledged by the DO that we could release

generic operational activities such as publishing journals or financing goodwill tours by prominent exile Cubans to Latin America The DO

reminded us that in reviewing these relationships with Cubans and organizations, it was important to protect CIA personnel, agents and

assets and any specifics on tradecraft.

When asked about Bay of Pigs training sites, Linda felt that the actual location should still be protected in spite of the fact that

they have been mentioned in open literature.

With regard to DO location numbers (19 for Cuba) she thought this was OK for the 60-63 time frame but would check with LA

Div. She had no problem with the release of the Bell location in cables since it was no longer used.

CC:

J. Barry Harrelson @ DA

Richard D. Kovar-Y- @ DA

John F. Pereira @DA

-CONFIDENTIAL

HH 55157

DooId: 32404520

Page

2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

8 November 1995

...". ".

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Jeremy Gunn,

ARRB Staff

FROM:

Barry Harrelson,

CIS/CSI/HRG

SUBJECT:

Issues re Cryptonyms, Country

Designators, Action Indicators and

Employee True Names (U)

Attached is memorandum from the DO Focal Point

t for the

ARRB addressing the release of cryptonyms, country

designators, action indicators and employee true names. The

memorandum is intended to provide guidance to you and your

staff and complements information provided in previous

discussions.

Ellie and I welcome the opportunity to discuss

these issues with your staff. (U)

JEK

Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

Attachment

Unclassified When Separated

From Attachment.

SECRET

NW 55157 DooId: 32404520

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-SECRET

IF!:

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM:

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT:

Position on Release of Cryptonyms, Country

Designators, Action Indicators and Employee True

Names

During the period since the ARRB last met, the DO has

collection and by stating our position up front we hope to

facilitate the Board's review and to reach an agreement that will

be mutually satisfying to the Board and the Agency.

Cryptonyms - Except for cryptonyms related to

operational assets

or activities involving Mexico or Miami,

the Agency will release the main component of cryptonyms and

withhold only the two-letter digraph. Treating cryptonyms

in this manner will protect the nationalities of individuals

and operations that are not pertinent to Oswald or the JFK

investigation and render an easier reading of the written

material.

Country File Designators - We will delete the first

element of operational activity and operational interest

files in those instances when the credibility of the

narrative is not affected. The first element of the file

number corresponds to the

alphabetical position of the

country name which is easily discernible, whereas the

subsequent two elements relate to type of activity or

interest and specific subject.

Action Indicator (Slug) Lines - Generally, we will

release the entire action indicator line of a document.

Occasionally, however, we will withhold portions when the

JEK Act 6

(1) (A

JEK Act

6M(B)

CL BY

DECL OADR

DRV HUM 4-82

SECRET

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page

4

---

## Page 5

SUBJECT: Position on Cryptonyms, Country Designators, Action

Indicators and Employee True Names

context identifies a source or a relationship with a

specific liaison service.

True Names of Staff Employees - In most instances we

will release names of employees who have retired in an overt

status and were serving in Headquarters when cited in a

document.

We will continue to protect the true names of

employees cited as serving in a field position. References

to field personnel in true name are uncommon, however, since

pseudonyms are normally used in correspondence between

Headquarters and the field.

flor

fredrick. Wickham,

JI.

JEK Act •6

JEK Act 6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

SECRET

NW 55157

Doc1d: 32404520

Page

---

## Page 6

ASSASSINA

TIO

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

REVIEW

November 9, 1995

HAND DELIVERED

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DSCLAS SIMOARON AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFOFMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

Mr. John Pereira, Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D.C., 20505

Re: ARRB requests for evidence

Dear John:

I thought that it might be helpful to you if I were to provide you with our current

assessment of the status of our review of the Agency's assassination records and point

to where we would like to proceed in the future.

I would like to begin by acknowledging the efforts made by the Historical Review

Group to facilitate our review of records. It has been, as you know, a difficult and time-

consuming process both for the Agency and the Review Board. We very much

appreciate the personal cooperation of you and your staff..

We continue to be concerned by the slow progress that has been made. Although we

perceive that the task has been more difficult and time-consuming than Congress

anticipated, we have found that the careful education process in which we have been

involved has helped educate us with respect to your concerns and, we hope, has helped

demonstrate to you the Review Board's concerns.

We must, however, begin to pick up the pace. In many circumstances we are reviewing

and then re-reviewing the same documents over and over again. We are also

frequently put in the position of not being provided with evidence in a timely manner

so that we can make our presentations to the Board. While many of these difficulties

are understandable - and perhaps even inherent to the start-up of the process in which

we are engaged - we must expedite the process. Rather than dealing with dozens of

records at Board meetings, we need to move towards a schedule where hundreds of

records will be reviewed at Board meetings. From our perspective, it seems that it is

essential that the Agency be prepared to allocate significant additional resources to the

process of reviewing the records and making evidence available to the Board.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell

HN 55157

DocId: 32404520 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Mr. John Pereira

November 9, 1995

Page 2

We also believe that the Agency still is not providing the type of evidence that will be

the most convincing to the Board. Where issues exist that the Board has not yet

addressed, and where the Agency would like to see postponements upheld, specific

information must be provided to support a postponement. General statements, while

useful in identifying the underlying issues involved, do not provide the Board with the

complete knowledge and understanding of the issue that is necessary to make an

informed judgment regarding release of the information.

The Board is looking forward to receiving the CIA's evidence in support of the

postponement of true names. As you know, we have planned for some time to devote

the December (12 and 13) meeting to this important issue.

Additionally, you will find enclosed with this letter the next in our series of information

requests, covering boxes 7-9 of the Oswald collection. We are submitting these requests

now in an attempt to give HRG as much advance notice as possible of which records we

will be reviewing for the January 4 meeting. Evidence for records to be reviewed

January 4 should be provided no later than December 13, 1995.

We hope that during HRG's review of the January documents, the standards outlined in

this letter will be kept in mind. If at any point an issue is deemed so sensitive that a

briefing is required, ARRB staff will meet with you at your convenience.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely yours,

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Enclosures

1N 35157 Do01d:32404520

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

11 December 1995

NOTE FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: Briefing of JFK Board Staff: Cover

On 1 December, Barry Gibson, Deputy Chief of the

office of Central Cover,

briefed the Executive Director of

the Assassinations Records Review Board and other Board

staff members.

Also participating from. CIA were

and Eleanor Neiman of IMS;

'OGC; and BarrY

Harrelson and I from HRG.

2. The focus of the briefing was on the need to protect

the names of former Agency employees that appeared

in the

JFK records.

Gibson discussed the risks involved for people

who retired under cover if they were identified in the

public record as former CIA employees.

efforts made by his office to obtain written statements from

NO RE CEA

He discussed the

the more than 100 individuals whose names appear.

Agency was asked in particular to present, in writing,

evidence of risk for each of the names that will be

discussed at the Board's meeting.

John F. Pereira

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (11 (B)

CL BY:-

0185904

CE REASON:

DECL ON:

XI

DiV FRCM:

AHR Tc-9m

SECRET

HH 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page

---

## Page 9

MEMORANDUM

March 20, 1996

To:

Review Board

CC:

David Marwell

CLA Team

From:

T. Jeremy Gunp

Subject:

Board Guidelines on Release of CIA Officer Names

The Staff understands the Review Board to accept the following general guidelines on

the release of true names of CIA officers:

When the true name of a CIA officer (i.e. past or present employee of CIA) appears in a

document, the Board will bring to its review a presumption that the true name will be

released. In order to overcome this presumption of release, CIA must provide evidence

demonstrating that release of the name would be harmful. In order to meet its burden

of proving harm, CIA must tailor the evidence to satisfy one of the three categories

identified in Part I (below). However, when the name of an officer is of such

importance that the public interest would not be served in postponing a name, the

Board may release the true name consistent with the principles identified in Part Il

(below).

Part I. Categories of Officers.

1. Living officers. For living (present or former) officers, CIA must prove that:

(a) the officer is living outside the United States (or reasonably is expected to

reside or travel outside the United States in the foreseeable future); (b) the officer

is either working or is retired under cover; and (c) the officer objects to the

release of his or her true name. If CLA satisfies this burden, the Board

presumptively (see Part II below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the

officer's true name until the year 2010.

2. Where current status of former officer is unknown. Where CIA has been

unable to contact the former officer because his or her location is unknown, CLA

must present a good faith showing that reasonable attempts have been made to

locate the officer. If the Board is convinced that CIA has made a good faith

showing that it was unable to locate the former officer, the Board will postpone

the true name until June 1, 1997. However, the Board may postpone the true

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DEGLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

HH 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 9

---

## Page 10

- 2 -

name beyond June 1, 1997, if CIA provides to the Board, prior to May 1, 1997,

additional evidence that satisfies the criteria of either category 1 (above) of

category 3 (below).

3. Names having effect on current intelligence interests. If CIA believes that

the release of a true name may compromise currently existing intelligence

operations or might otherwise cause an identifiable harm, it must provide

evidence that: (a) the officer currently is engaged in clandestine activities; (b) the

release of the true name would compromise ongoing intelligence operations or

would compromise operations with current intelligence value; (c) the release of

the true name would reasonably be expected to cause significant harm to a living

person (including family members), or (d) the release of the true name would

cause a significant harm to the national security or the foreign relations of the

United States. If CLA satisfies this burden, the Board presumptively (see Part I

below) will release a pseudonym and postpone the true name until 2010 or until

such other date as CIA reasonably shows to be a date on which the release could

be made without causing harm.

Part II. Names of Officers Who Are Important to the Assassination Story.

The Board presumptively will postpone the release.of names consistent with

categories 1-3 of Part I. However, for certain persons whose names appear in a

context that is important to the assassination story, the Board may nevertheless

vote to release the true name. In all such instances, the Board will notify CIA of

the importance of such a person and provide CIA with the opportunity to

provide additional information in support of postponing the release of the

names. These names shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, with due

consideration being given to the importance of the person to the assassination

story and such evidence of harm as CIA may provide.

NH 55157 DooId: 32404520

Page 10

---

## Page 11

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of

NOTE FOR:

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

Barry R. Gibson @ DO

@ DO

JOEL

03/04/96 09:26:53 AM

JFK - Central Cover appeal

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

The General Counsel and I met with the JFK Review Board on Friday and discussed, among other things, how to deal with the potential

public release of the identities of former employees retired under cover. The Board clearly wants to do the right thing here, but they feel :

they are not getting enough information to make that decision.

Jeremy Gunn (JFK Board's General Counsel) will soon provided me with some of the Board's suggestions on how to deal with this which I

will pass on to you (including how to deal with Whitten). I would at the very least like to be able suggest that we attempt contact again

(either through CIA or the Board) with those retirees who have not yet responded to our letter. Of course, any suggestions you have at

this point will be extremely helpful. My sense is that this issue of protecting retirees is something everyone at CIA will want to appeal

just on the principal of it, but that we should do everything possible to avoid an appeal. (Until we work out an agreement with the Board,

you should continue to prepare that appeal you are drafting)

In the meantime, can you please provided me the following figures:

1. The # of people we sent letters to regarding the potential Board releases. (isn't it 150?) and the following breakdown if

available:,

• # living abroad

• # of those retired under cover vs. those whose cover has been rolled back or lifted

• # of those who still work for us in covert/overt capacity

2. The # of responses we received to date.

3. The # of responses to date requesting that we don't release.

4. The # of responses to date saying that they didn't care.

I realize you are all out of the office these days, but I would appreciate getting this as soon as you can. Thanks.

CC:

J. Barry Harrelson

Eleanor E. Neiman @ DO

Frederick Wickham @ DO

ADMINISFRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

HH 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page 11

---

## Page 12

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

8 March 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

J. Barry Harellson

John Pereira

FROM:

DCI/OGC/LD

JFK - March 18 Board Meeting

JFK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

16

(1) (B)

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

ADMINISTRATIVE • INTERNAL USE ONLY

From the Desk of

NOTE FOR:

@ DCI

@ DCI

@ DCI

FROM:

DATE:

SUBJECT:

03/08/96 02:50:39 PM

JFK - March 18 Board Meeting

I have been informed that

go as well.

will be attending the next JFK Board meeting. If this is the case, it would seem that Jeff should

Two issues need to be discussed with the Board: stations and cover employees.

1.

Jeff and the Board agreed in principal to a "window" in which all stations would be opened (1960:64). Of course, if

there are particular stations which need to be exempted from this the Board will consider it upon the presentation of substantive

evidence.

HRG and the Board think this is a good idea that would enable them to avoid raising potential appeals every month

needs to be signed onto this idea.

• Jeff, last month, presented additional information on

Jeff and Dave should be

prepared to answer questions or provide more information so that the Board will agree to protect these stations.

The Board recently released the names of

cover employees. An appeal is being prepared (or so I am told). The

thirty days runs on March 18. We need to finalize with the Board how to handle this issue. At the last meeting the Board agreed that

this was a really important decision, but that they were not getting the information they need to make the right decision. At the last

meeting, the Board intimated that they might be willing to delay this release, if CIA and the Board could come to a mutually agreeable

way to deal with cover employees. I understood from Jeff that this is an issue that CIA will appeal on just the principal. If this is true,

the Board should understand what our ultimate position is on this, but that we are willing to cooperate with them to find a suitable

alternative (using pseudos or generic descriptions like "case officer")

I will be out all next week but Barry Harellson/HRG (30292) and John Pereira/CSI) (30373) will be happy to fill you

in on the details. Barry will be contacting

next week to find out how the March 18 meeting will be handled.

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

HN 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page 12

---

## Page 13

ADMINISIRA

INTERNAL USE ONLY

29 July 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief Historical Review Group

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Do, Focal Point for ARRB

Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

1. Cover mechanisms are an integral part of conducting

clandestine operations.

We are concerned about individuals that

continue to be dependent on particular cover legends and on the

organizations that. cooperatively work with us to provide those

cover legends.

The following proposal is offered to streamline

the process of handling names and minimize the potential damage

an inappropriate release could cause.

A. Incomplete and Unidentifiable names:

a .

We will release the occurrence of a name when a

common last name appears by itself or in conjunction

with a common first name

such that it does not tend

to specifically identify the individual.

b.

We will release the occurrence of a name if it

remains unidentified after a reasonable search is

conducted.

B. Identifiable names for employees that retired

overtly:

In most cases, overt employees' names will be released,

but in some cases overt employees may have a

portion of their employment remain under cover.

Such

cases will require the same review as that of an

employee who remained under cover into retirement.

1N 55157 D0010:32404520

PageMINISTRATIVE-- INTERNAL USE-ONEY

---

## Page 14

ADMINISTR

USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

C.

covertly:

Identifiable names for employees that retired

a.

We will make a reasonable attempt to locate

current address and contact the person.

If the person

objects to the release of his or her name

for reasons

associated with current life style issues, we will

object to the release of the name. If the person does

not have objections based upon personal circumstances we

will review the name for organizational issues:-(See

para.c. c.)

b. It reasonable efforts fail to locate the

current address,

but it can be determined that the

individual is still receiving a pension, insurance or

other benefit based upon cover legend, we will need to

continue to protect the name since source of income or

benefits can not be altered without prior notification

to the individual.

If we fail to

identify a pension or

other active benefit, we will review the name

for

organizational issues. (See para C. c.)

C.

We will make a reasonable attempt to review the

name to 100k for identifiable harm to the person's

safety, family, ongoing operational activities, national

security or foreign relations. Assuming that none of

the previous concerns are identified, we will review the

potential damage to the cover mechanism or cover

provider by the specific occurrence of the name if

released.

2.

Because families of deceased employees could be the

beneficiary of pensions or insurance provided under the employees

cover legend, we must review them the same as we would the

employee.

We also have second and third generation officers

following in the footsteps of their parents that could be

negatively impacted by the revelation..

Our efforts to locate current addresses will include

all

internal record systems maintained by Office of Personnel

Security, Retirement Branch and Insurance Branch. We will

include a checklist reflecting completion of these searches

2

ADMINISTRATIVE

INTERNAL USE ONLY

NN 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 14

---

## Page 15

ADMINISTRATIY

AL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

within the documentation when requesting continued protection of

the name.

4.

We considered options of contacting IRS or OPM during

our attempts to locate current addressing information, but based

upon the fact that these offices would be unwitting of the cover.

arrangement for the individual, it was determined to be an

unreasonable risk to the cover

of these officers.

JFK Act

JEK Act

6 (1) (A)

(1) (B)

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

3

WH 55157 DocId: 32404520

ADMINISTRATIVE

→ INTERNAL USE ONLY

Page

15

---

## Page 16

ADMINISTRATIVEN

INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Proposal for Dealing with Employees' Names

IMS/RPG Ewickham:mjk (29 July 1996)

Distribution:

Orig

& 1'- Addressee

1 - C/OCC

1 - IMS/ESG/ALB

1

- IMS/ESG/IRB

1 - IMS/ESG/HCS

1

- IMS/ESG-OIT/MSG/RDP

1

ESG Chrono

55157 DooId: 32404520

LATEDATE LICE SNIU

---

## Page 17

Dreadedie

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

;

11 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

SUBJECT: Comparison of ARRB and DO Memoranda re

Treatment of CIA Officer Names in JFK

Collection

1. This memorandum is in response to an assignment to

compare a 20 March 1996 ARRB memorandum written by T. Jeremy

Gunn and The Directorate of Operations response dated 20

July 1966, authored by Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Both deal

with the treatment of CIA officer true names which appear in

the JFK collection -- when they will be postponed and when

they will be released.

2. First the ARRB Memorandum Gunn describes in legal

terms the Board's position on the postponement or release of

CIA officers' true names.

He makes a proffer which states

that there is a presumption in favor of release akin to a

legal evidentuary rule which causes a burden to shift to the

other party (CIA) to prove something. In this instance, it

is factual evidence/proof sufficient to shift the burden not

only back to neutral but to the other side of neutral which

permits postponement.

The Gunn memorandum then sets out the criteria

required to meet the burden under several situations.

1N J5151 D0010:32404520 Page 17

---

## Page 18

A.

For officers who are

still alive he states that the

proofs required to postpone release of a name are three in

number and all three must be meti

i. The officer must be living outside of the U.s.

OR,

(Reasonably be expected to travel outside of

the U.S. in the foreseeable future;

AND,

ii. The officer is either working ... (presumably

a current staff officer, contract employee,

or independent contractor)

... or is retired

under cover;

AND,

iii. The officer objects to the release of his or

her true name.

COMMENT: Mr. Gunn's criteria are a little confusing

and reach beyond the Board's authority. First, note again

that the three elements are joined by an & AND$ meahing all

elements must be met to satisfy a postponement. Second, the

first requirement of living or traveling outside of the u.s.

is not tied to & cover.&

Many officers who do not work

under cover all of the time are, in fact, provided cover

for overseas IDY's. Thus; any officer who might

& reasonably' be expected to travel outside of the U.s.

would warrant postponement of his true name. This would

WH 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 18

---

## Page 19

seem to include every CIA employee, contract employee and

independent contractor past and present.

With respect to the third element, Mr. Gunn and the

Board are simply in error. To my knowledge they have no

authority to require that an individual be consulted

concerning his or her wishes to maintain cover, thus having

his or her true name postponed, or to give up his cover,

thus having the name released. This decision does not lie

in the first instance with the individual but is an

institutional decision which lies solely within the

purview

of the Agency and the executive branch of the government.

CIA as an

executive agency charged with the creation,

maintenance, and dissolution of cover mechanisms is the only

entity competent to make such

a decision. It alone knows if

release of an officer's true name will compromise an

existing cover mechanism which will, in turn, expose others

who share or have shared the same cover. It alone knows if

release of an officer's name will expose CIA sponsorship (a

cover entity) of a sensitive activity. It alone knows if

release of an officer's name will violate a promise of

confidentiality to a commercial cover sponsor which could

cause both embarrassment and possibly, financial hardship to

the sponsor and, in turn, substantially hinder the Agency's

ability to secure subsequent commercial cover sponsors.

Turning next to the wishes of a particular officer

(either current or retired) vis a vis staying with his or

her cover, these thoughts come to mina. For current

HH 55157 DecId: 32404520

Page 19

---

## Page 20

employees, the decision is again not entirely theirs. If,

after careful review, the Agency does not have a strong

position on the employee maintaining the cover, the officer

should be permitted to decide. He or she should be

counseled however, that an action to remove cover could have

an adverse impact on future assignments or TDYs. With

respect to retirees, if, after careful review, the Agency

does not object to the removal from cover, the individual

should be permitted to decide. Note, that the responses to

this inquiry will be mixed. As a historical note, the

Agency over the years has been on an ever-swinging pendulum

with respect to& cover into retirement,& # cover for

life,&

etc. There will be officers who petitioned hard

unsuccessfully to have their cover removed when they retired

and will gladly consent to lifting the cover. There will be

those officers who do not want their cover lifted under any

circumstance.

By way of summary, it is CIA not the Board and not the

individual officer who makes the initial decision concerning

the maintenance or lifting of cover.

B. Former officers, status unknown. While the

heading to this section would seem to suggest the CIA does

not know the cover/non-cover status of some of its former

officers, the section does not rally deal with this issue.

Rather, within the section, Mr. Gunn simply recognizes the

fact the CIA may not be able to find all of its former

officers to ask if they want to be opened up or remain under

HH 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 20

---

## Page 21

cover. The test required by Mr. Gunn to satisfy the Board

and thus continue postponement until 1 June of this year is

a # good faith showing that reasonable attempts were made

to locate the officer and failed.

The section contains the additional provision which

advises the Board may continue a postponement beyond 1 June

of this year (i.e., until 2010) if the CIA provides the

board with evidence which satisfies the criteria of either

category 1 or category 3. Such & additional evidenced

must

be provided by 1 May 1977.

The requirements or tests of this section for the

Agency are not onerous but should be set-out as a series of

uniform actions or check-off's taken in the attempt to

locate each & current status unknown officer. The record

of these actions could then be presented to the ARRB in

support of a request for continued to postponement. The DO

Memorandum mentions of the possibility of asking the IRS or

the OPM for assistance in this regard and this should

probably be done. I recall however, that the Service will

assist, through cleared contacts at the National Office, but

only to the extent of determining the whereabouts of the

individual and then contacting him and ask that he be in

touch with his former employer. I have no current knowledge

of cleared contacts at the OPM but they existed in the past

and i assume they continue.

C. Names having effect on current intelligence

interests. The Gunn letter appears to subscribe a higher

1H 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 21

---

## Page 22

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B.)

level of concern to this section and its criteria than the

previous two, not recognizing the plain fact that the

criteria of all three sections are inextricable.

It sets

out four separate criteria which, if CIA satisfies its

burden, i.e. provides sufficient evidence to prove any one

of them, will operate to postpone a true name until the year

2010. Note again, the criteria required are four separate

ones, each separated by a comma and between numbers 3 and 4

and " OR." They are:

i. The officer must be currently engaged in

clandestine activities; OR,

ii.. The release of the officer's name would

compromise ongoing intelligence operations or operations

with current intelligence value

(presumably, the latter

permits a review into the officer's past activities, agent

relationships, and cover positions) ; OR,

ii. The release of the officer's true name would

reasonably be expected to cause significant harm to a living

person (including family members); (read broadly, this

provision would include, the individual, former agents,

anyone who shared the same cover or cover position, i.e. a

OR;

iv.. The release of the officer's name would cause a

significant harm to the national security or the foreign

relations of the U.S. la criteria which is broad enough to

drive the proverbial Mack truck through).

WH 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 22

---

## Page 23

4. In Part II, the Gunn memorandum takes back part of

what it gave in the previous section. It sets up a test of

* importance to the assassination story vs. evidence of

harm. &

Essentially, it advises that the Board will weigh

the CIA's evidence but, if within its view, the true name

being considered for postponement is important to the

assassination story, the Board will release it. This means

for those few individuals who may be viewed as & important

to the story,& truly substantial evidence must be brought

to bear.: Absent such evidence, the Board will release, and

the only recourse left to the Agency would be an appeal to

the President.

5.

The Directorate of Operations Memorandum.

The

basic concern with the steps for handling names as contained

within the memorandum is as follows.. For officers who

retired under cover, the first step will be to contact them

and ask if they want their true name released. Per the

comments on page three supra, this should be the last step

of the review, not the first.

A. Other Comments:

The resources and data bases

which will be researched for each name should be clearly

established and followed in a uniform manner. Deviation

from a set, orderly process will open CIA determinations to

criticism, objections and dismissal, i.e. release of a name

that should be postponed.

B. In addition to the data bases described --

retirement records, annuity pay records, the office of

1W. 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page 23

---

## Page 24

security, insurance lists -- consideration might be given

to the Northwest Federal Credit Union, and overt data bases

such as Phonedec. Like the IRS and OPM, the credit union

might not be able from a legal standpoint to provide an

address.

However, it would probably be prepared to contact

an individual and ask that he be in touch.

C.

A comment must be made about the idea of

universally releasing the true names of overt employees. To

the extent that any current employee, even overt employee,

may be sent overseas on TDY under light cover, the release

of his or her true name via these JFK documents which will

receive widespread review could jeopardize his overseas

mission and possibly, place his life in danger.

6. These thoughts are intended to be talking points as

we commence to sort out the manner in which we will deal

with the true names. Clearly, we need to begin to quickly

identify those names which can be released, those on which

there is some question, and those few on which we really

need to dig in our heals.

6. I would be glad to discuss with you any of the

issues raised herein.

Gary M. Breneman

NW 55157 DooId: 32404520 Page 24

---

## Page 25

::

wakfil

SECRET - WORKING PAPER

...

5 March, 1997

Memorandum For: Chief/HRG

From:

Subject:

Reference:

Barry Harrelson

Name Issue / Status of Review

Meetings with ARRB staff (Marwell & Gunn)

4 March 1997

Name Issue

I met with Gunn and Marwell (separate meetings) to

discuss the reopening of the names issue per my memo to you.

Both Gunn and Marwell reacted positively.

They found the

proposal to be reasonable one and they are willing to work

with us in approaching the Board.

However, both said they

could not predict the Boards reaction.

Per Marwell, one

member of the Board (Anna Nelson)

seems to believe that if a

person worked for the CIA it should be known.

Apparently our timing is excellent. Marwell is

planning to propose to the Board that they change the

process from the focus on individual

postponements to

documents.

Under the new approach his staff would have the

authority to negotiate with the Agency on the release of

documents, and only issues/documents of disagreement would

be placed

before the Board. Marwell is convinced that even

with an additional year they will not finish the project

with the current approach.

He sees our proposal on the

names as an example of how the process would work.

Marwell recommends that we include examples of

documents containing names of little or no connection to the

story.

Bob Skwirot (he was in the meeting with Marwell)

said that there were a number of names that appeared in only

1a the vain, to the

one document and that the number of names had reached 590.

Marwell wants to start immediately on preparing a joint list

of important/releasable individuals.

Action:

Advise DO, OGC, upper management of our proposal to

reopen the name issue (how?). Need to decide what level

would sign the memo to the Board, and who would prepare the

memo. If you agree I can send a

copy of my memo to you to

Linda and Fred for background use.

HRG and DO team will collect examples of documents and

prepare (with ARRB staff) a list of individuals. The DO

should focus on any person on the list that needs protection

and prepare the evidence ASAP li.e. not wait for the issue

to be resolved).

SECRET

NW 55157 DooId: 32404520 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET - WORKING PAPER

New ARRB Review Process

Marwell and I spent some time discussing how a new

process would work. He would like to test the process for

the April meeting. The following is a rough outline with my

comments:

1) HRG reviewers would review the documents the same

as they do now (postponements

would be blue highlighted).

Ino change in our procedures]

2)

document.

ARRB staff would review the blue highlighted

a) If they agree, they would stamp the document

"ARRB approved" and return it to HRG to process

for NARA.

b) If they disagree they would highlight in

yellow (creating green highlighting). If the two

staffs cannot resolve the issue, then the document

would go before the Board.

[Major change: ARRB staff would no longer record all the

proposed postponements, no DO damage review, no detailed

determination letter requiring HRG reviewers to use the

"grid" to determine what happen.]

3)

Non-issue documents would be sent to the ARRB

staff when ready for NARA.

At that time the ARRB staff

would prepare a simplified final determination notice and

letter to the Agencies.

I No action would be required; HRG would file the final

determination notice with the document].

"Green" highlighted documents that go to the Board

would be handled the same as today.

The expectation is that a lot less documents would require

Board action. ]

Comments: With some fine tuning, I think this process could

work, and we would be able to complete the re-review of

documents released in 1993 and 1994 by Oct. 1998.

Completing the entire project will depend on how quickly the

"non-related" material

and the "addition records"

are

reviewed by the ARRB staff.

SECRET

NN 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 26

---

## Page 27

• 1. .

... " *

SECRET - WORKING PAPER

Pending Issues

As part of the change in process, Marwell wants the

Board to focus on outstanding substantive issues as opposed

to micro managing the review. We discussed the following:

1) Nosenko. ARRB staff needs to review the non-related

material and make a recommendation to the Board.

Marwell

leans toward not treating all of Nosenko as assassination

related. Could be a hard sell with some Board members.

Should we request that Nosenko meet with the Board? Marwell

thinks they would react favorably.

2) Personnel Files. Again the first step is to have

his staff confirm that only a part of a file is related and

that those documents are in the released material.

monte are in theate

•3 )

FBI file issue; we need to present case to

the Board

4) LI 9. Continuing to protect will be a hard sell

given that

identity; we need to present

case to the Board.

5) CRC Financial Files. ARRB staff needs to review

JFK Act 6

JEK Act

(1) (A)

6

(1) (B).

Annual Report and Extension

Marwell ask me to draw you attention to the Annual

Report and the request for an extension. He would still

like a letter from the Agency (could be addressed to him)

along these lines:

"reviewed Annual Report"

"note that the Board has ask for extension"

"support the request/feel it is in interest of

Agency and public /or something along these lines"

Other issues (not discussed with Marwell/Gunn)

Linda (OGC) says CI Staff has ask Gunn to rewrite his

notes, and opposes Gunn's suggestion to release pages from

the CI histories he reviewed.

Gunn indicated in his notes

that some of the pages should be released and might be

considered assassination records.

We are going to run into

similar problems with the other histories.

Gunn will be in

He tomorrow to re-do his notes.

She will discuss the "pages

issue" with the goal of having him drop the request to

release.

As to the question of designating the pages as

assassination records, she will inform him that CI will

oppose. If he insist, she will refer back to HRG.

SECRET

NW 55157 DooId:32404520

Page 27

---

## Page 28

04/23/9?

WED 15:53 FAX 202 724 0457

_ ARRB

WUUL

R

FAX

S

To:

Fax #:

Subject:

Date:

Pages:

J. Barry Harrelson

703-613-3063

Segregated Collections

April 23, 1997

7, including this cover sheet.

Today the Board adopted the attached guidelines.

CIA HAS NO OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

From the desk of...

T. Jeremy Gunn

General Counsel

Aseatsination Recorde Revlaw Board

600 E Sireel, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20530

(202) 724-0080

Fax: (202) 724-0457

NW 55157

DooId: 32404520

Page

28

---

## Page 29

04/23/37

--.

WED 15:53 FAX 202 724_0457

WINUL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Assassination Records Review Board

Guidelines for Review of Postponements in the Segregated Collections

Adopted: April 23, 1997

Background

In order to ensure that the Review Board will be able to complete its task of reviewing

all identified assassination records, the Board recently took two significant steps. First,

collections" with regard to information hit is with relieve to revaning "el treate

assassination. Second, in February 1997, the Review Board requested Congress to

extend its tenure for one additional year.

It is the Review Board's judgment that, even with the assumption that our operations

may be extended through Fiscal Year 1998, the Review Board cannot hope to complete

review of postponements in the Segregated Collections under the current method of

review. In particular, a reasonable modification of current postponement standards

would greatly expedite and facilitate the release of additional information and records.

Otherwise, the Review Board might cease operations without having reviewed claimed

postponements in tens of thousands of pages of FBI and CIA records.

Postponement Criteria for the Segregated Collections

In a further effort to enhance the Review Board's work, the Review Board now issues

these revised guidelines for the review of records in the Segregated Collections.'

(These guidelines do not affect the FBI's Core and Related Files or the ClA's 201 file on

Oswald.) The four principal factors that underlie these review guidelines are: first,

continuing, to the greatest reasonable extent, the Review Board's established

guidelines for postponements that have emerged over the past two years; second,

establishing guidelines consistent with the Review Board's decision regarding NBR

records; third, establishing reasonable and workable guidelines that will enable the.

'The regulations adopted by the Board on November 13, 1996, define

"Segregated Collections" as including first, FBI records that were requested by: (a) the

House Select Committee on Assassinations ("HSCA") in conjunction with its

investigation into the Kennedy assassination; (b) the Church Committee in conjunction

with its inquiry into issues related to the Kennedy assassination; and (c) by other bodies

(e.g., Pike Committee, Abzug Committee, etc.) that relate to the Kennedy

assassination; and second, CIA records including (a) the ClA's Sequestered Collection

of 63 boxes as well as one box of microfilm records and the microfilm records (box 64),

and (b) several boxes of CIA staff "working files."

NN 55157 DooId: 32404520

Page 29

---

## Page 30

04/23/97

WED 15:54 FAX 202 724 0457

AKKO

- 2-

Review Board, the ARRB staff, the CIA, and the FBI to complete the significant amount

of work that remains; and finally, to provide reasonably consistent standards for the

review of postponements that would apply equally to CIA and FBI records.

The following are, in summary form, guidelines for reviewing postponements in the

Segregated Collections.

CIA Source and FBI Informant and National Security Asset Postponements

There are, of course, similarities and differences between FBI informants and CIA

sources. Like FBI informants and national security assets, ClA sources may or may not

be paid for the information that they provide and they may or may not be providers of

information over the long-term. When providing information to the Bureau, FBI

informants generally are understood to be cooperating with law enforcement officials for

a legal and legitimate purpose. It is often the case, although not always, that FBI

informants understand that at some point their name might surface in conjunction with a

criminal prosecution and that they may need to testify in court. Foreign ClA sources

and FBI national security assets, however, are not necessarily deemed to be

cooperating with law enforcement officials but may, in fact, be committing the crime of

espionage against their native country by cooperating with US authorities. Furthermore,

unlike FBI informants, CIA sources and FBI national security assets presume that their

names will not be released publicly and they certainly presume (in the ordinary course)

that their identities will not surface in criminal trials. As a practical matter, it is generally

much easier today for the FBI to locate a former informant who resides in the United

States than it is for the CIA and FBI to locate former sources and national security

assets.

Despite these differences - differences which would generally suggest a greater

degree of protection being owed to CIA sources and FBI national security assets -- the

issues in terms of postponements are fundamentally similar.

The existing "NBR" guidelines allow the Review Board to remove from detailed

consideration those records or files that truly have no apparent relevance to the

assassination. Nevertheless, a significant number of files in the Segregated Collections

contain records that shed some light on issues that the HSCA explored as potentially

relevant to the assassination of President Kennedy. The following criteria would apply

to all records in the Segregated Collections, including records containing some NBR

redactions.

NW 55157 DooId: 32404520

Page 30

---

## Page 31

04/23/97

WED 15:54

FAX ZUZ 724. 0451

ANND

- 3-

CIA Sources

The Review Board established guidelines, during its December 1996 meeting, for

handling CIA source issues and applied those guidelines at the January 1997 meeting.

These guidelines directed the protection of names and identifying information of CIA

sources in cases where the identity of the source is of low public interest or is peripheral

to the JFK assassination. The Board's decision was based on two factors: the concern

that since CIA sources generally live outside the United States, they could risk harm it

their identities were revealed. Moreover, many of the sources referenced in CIA

records appear infrequently and are of relatively low public interest. Therefore, in

records where the identity of the source is of importance for understanding the

assassination, the CIA will be required to provide additional evidence to support the

protection of the source's identity.? In cases where the identify of the source is

peripheral to the assassination story, the information will be postponed until 2017.

FBI National Security Assets

FBI national security assets should be treated in the same manner as ClA sources.

FBI Informants

Informant issues represent the largest category of postponements in the FBI's

Segregated Collection, as they do in the "core" FBI assassination files. They also

provide the greatest opportunity for streamlining the review process. Currently, there

are ten members of the Bureau's JFK Task Force who are responsible for researching

individual informants in response to evidence requests from the Review Board." They

retrieve and review the informants' files and attempt, through DMV, Social Security, and

other database searches, to determine if the informant is alive. Under current Review

Board standards for "core" files, this work is necessary to provide evidence to support

redacting the informant's name, regardless of whether the informant provided

information. Removing the requirement of proving whether informants are alive in the

Segregated Collections would free up significant resources that could be deployed to

reviewing unprocessed HSCA subject files.

The new approach to HSCA subjects is to protect informant-identifying information,

3An example would be the case of John Scelso (pseud.). The Board found that

his identity is relevant to the assassination story and ClA offered evidence of a

continuing need to protect the identity. In this case, "Scelso" documents would

continue to be scheduled for release in five years.

*Six work full-time on informant evidence, four devote about half their time to

informant evidence.

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 31

---

## Page 32

- 4 =

without requiring the Bureau to make a showing that the informant is alive. This

protection would extend to individuals characterized as symbol-number informants,

"PSIs," "PCls," "established sources," "panel sources," and the like - designations that

indicate an ongoing relationship with the FBI. It would not extend to individuals who

requested that their identity be protected in an isolated contact with the FBI or to local

and state law enforcement officers.

The "informant-identifying information" to be protected would include the customary

(i:e., informant-specific) portions of informant symbol numbers and file numbers,

informant names, and -- at least potentially - descriptions of, and information received

from, the informant. How much, if any, of the latter type of information should be

redacted would be the principal focus of staff-level discussions with the FBI. The staff's

principal goal in this process, with regard to each informant, would be to release as

much information that is relevant to understanding the assassination as possible. In

discussions with the FBI, the staff would be prepared, if necessary, to concede

redaction of informant-identifying information that is unrelated to the assassination in

order to ensure that more pertinent information is released.s

The presumption will be that an informant's identity will be released if the informant

provides "positive" information about an assassination-related issue. To overcome this

presumption of release for informants with "positive" information, the FBI would need to

make a particularized showing that the identifying information should not be released.

To the extent that an informant's identity is protected, it will be postponed until 2017.

CIA Employee Name Postponements

Over the past year the ClA has addressed the employee name issue and has released

some names that it had previously asked the Board to postpone. But during that time

the list of names has grown to a size that had not been imagined at the time the work

began. To date, the Review Board staff has identified in the JFK Collection over 650

names of CIA employees. These names appear in more than 1000 documents already

reviewed by the Board and numerous additional records that have not yet been

processed. While some of these employee names are important to the assassination

story, many appear only a few times in the entire JFK Collection and seem to add little,

if any, important information.

SIn HSCA subjects, there typically will not be information about Ruby, Oswald or

the assassination itself. However, in a file on, for example, Sam Giancana, there may

be informant reports on Giancana's support of anti-Castro activities, and reports from

the same informant on day-to-day numbers operations in the Chicago area. The staff

would set a higher priority on release of the former reports than on the latter.

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 32

---

## Page 33

04/23/97

WED 15:55 FAX ZUZ 724 U401

ANd.

- 5 -

CIA's argument to protect employee names emphasizes a number of points. First,

since many employees are "under cover," the maintenance of that cover is critical to

gathering intelligence. CIA argues that identification of a name can identify the cover

provider and jeopardize operations. Second, although the majority of names are of

retired CIA employees, CIA has a confidentiality agreement with them and many do not

want their past Agency affiliation released. The argument here is that release may

jeopardize business relationships or personal safety. Such arguments have already

been presented to the Board. Their merit can only be determined on a case-by-case

basis. However, due to the volume of names in the JFK Collection, the individual

review and evaluation of each case would delay significantly the review of documents

and ultimately lead to less total information becoming available to the public.

CIA has proposed, and the Review Board agrees, that CIA employee names be treated

in a manner similar to that applied to Source names: to postpone until 2017 those

employee names that are of low public interest or are of peripheral interest to the

assassination. It will be presumed that employee names will be released if their

identities are important to the assassination story unless the CIA is able to provide

specific information of a potential harm of release. (CIA acknowledges the presumption

of release unless specific evidence is provided to the Review Board that harm to

national security or to personal safety would result from the release of the employee

name.)

FBI "Foreign Counterintelligence" Postponements

It is presumed that the FBI will, at least partially, carry over its post-appeal standards for

disclosing "FCI" activities targeting Communist-bloc nations. To the extent that the

HSCA subjects reflect "FCI" activities against other nations that have not been

addressed by the Review Board in the "core" files, the FBI will be allowed to redact

direct discussion of such activities, unless the information in the proposed redaction

meaningfully contributes to the understanding of the assassination.

FBI and CIA Foreign Llaison Postponements

The criteria for these postponements would not, in the abstract, depart significantly from

the Review Board's current approach of releasing information received through liaison

channels, while protecting direct acknowledgment of the source of the information. In

practice, however, the staff would be more flexible in protecting text that implies,

although may not unambiguously state, that a foreign government is the source of

particular information. Nevertheless, the more significant the information is to any

assassination-related issue, the more information would be released under these

guidelines.

NW 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 33

---

## Page 34

--

CIA Stations and Other Issues

Over the past two years the Review Board has established other guidelines that will

continue to guide the review process, some of which will be outlined here. For CIA

stations, all locations related to the Mexico City story will be released during the period

1960-69. Outside of that window, they will be released on a case-by-case basis should

the identity of the station be critical to understanding the assassination. Other stations,

except for those identified as particularly sensitive, will be released from the beginning

of the Kennedy administration until the publication of the Warren Commission report,

(i.e., January 1, 1961 to October 1, 1964). Outside of these windows, stations will be

postponed. Cable prefixes, dispatch prefixes, and field report prefixes would be

postponed or released according to the same windows as the stations to which they

refer. CIA job titles also are redacted or opened along with the station at which the

officer served.

Crypts would be released along lines similar to other information. All "LI" crypts, except

those considered particularly sensitive would be released through October 1, 1964, as

are "AM" crypts and U.S. govemment crypts. In other areas, only the digraph is

protected. Again, the exception is sensitive crypts, which would be protected in their

entirety. After October 1, 1964, the presumption shifts towards protection of the crypts,

except those that provide meaningful information about the assassination story. (For

example, crypts pertinent to Garrison-era documents would likely carry the same

presumption of release as those generated during the Warren Commission.)

Surveillance methods will be released if the nature of the surveillance has a material

bearing on information related to the assassination unless CIA provides evidence

demonstrating the political or operational sensitivity, in which case the information will

be released in 2017.

e:larrb\regsleview.wpd

AW 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page

34

---

## Page 35

love.

10

Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Strect NW - 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088 fax: (202) 724-0157

December 11,1995

BY FACSIMILE

Mr. Juhn Pereira

Director

Historical Review Group

Center for the Study of Intelligence

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, DC 20505

Dear John:

As Mary and I discussed with Barry late last Friday, ClA's long-awaited response to

ARRB's request for evidence about the true names to be considered at tomorrow's

Board meeting was disappointing and madequate. For several months, the Board has

been encouraged by the ClA to expert a comprehensive presentation of specific

evidence relating, to its desire to protect the true names oi CLA employees. The Board

has delayed action on hundreds of assassination records in anticipation of this evidence

We are frankly concerned not only by the impact the CLA's action will have on our

work, but also by the fact that we feel we have been mislead by the Agency in this

instance.

We urge your full compliance with our request in time for tomorrow's meering.

Sincerely yours,

Lian e

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

BUARD MAHLuS: junnA. Tunneim: Cheer-Honey t Gran• KermieL Hall - WilliomL Jovie • Anna k. Nolsari

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOA. DUVIÚ O

Marvell

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 35

---

## Page 36

SECRET

46)

"""

FBj.

THE UNCLASSIFIED SAE, COORDINATED IN DRAFT WITH

CCS/OSB, IS AS FOLLOUS:

SUMMARY: TRILINGUAL SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE OFFICER

WITH EXTENSIVE EXPERIENCE

WORKING WITH THE U:S. CONGRESS. MORE THAN 16 YEARS WORKING ANO

ELEVEN OF THOSE YEARS WERE IN SUPERVISORY

AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT POSITIONS.

RECEIVED A SENIOR EXECUTIVE

SERVICE AWARD FOR HAVING MADE OUTSTANDING CONTRIBUTIONS TO

OVERALL RELATIONS WITH THE VARIOUS HOUSE COMMITTEES CONCERNED

WITH FOREIGN POLICY TO INCLUDE THE HOUSE ARMED SERVICE,

APPROPRIATIONS, • SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE, SELECT

COMMITTEE ON NARCOTICS, AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS) .

COMPLEMENTED BY INDIVIDUAL LETTERS OF COMMENDATION FROM

MAJORITY. AS WELL AS MINORITY MEMBERS OF THOSE COMMITTEES.

MEXICO, MAINTAINED FRUITFUL CONTACT WITH CABINET MEMBERS

WAS A MAJOR PLAYER IN. THE DIALOGUE AND POLICY GUIDANCE BUILDING

UP TO (INTER ALIA) THE DEBT NEGOTIATIONS AGREEMENT AND ENSUING

COMMERCIAL OPENINGS.

DETAILS:.

-TOP SECRET AND SPECIAL COMPARTMENTED CLEARANCES.

-DRAFTER AND/OR COORDINATOR ON MYRIAD POLICY, POSITION

ELATIONSHIPS APERS CAPACTINGAJOR PLAYER EN ENSURING THAT O

MAJOR PLAYER IN/ ENSURING THAT

'GHEST LEVELS" OF THE USG FULLY UNDERSTOOD THE COMPLEXITLES O

THE EVOLVING POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION INI

-DAILY INTERLOQUTOR WITH _

CABINET OFFICERS

DURING SLIGHTLY LESS THAN FOUR YEARS IN

- IN PREVIOUS WASHINGTON ASSIGNMENT, DEALT EXTENSIVELY

WITH THE FULL RANGE OF FOREIGN POLICY ELEMENTS OF THE USG.

GAVE IN HOUSE AS WELL AS NUMEROUS INTER AGENCY SPEECHES ON A

VARIETY OF MATTERS OF MUTUAL CONCERN.

-IN 1978-1980 PERIOD, WORKED FOR THE OFFICE OF

LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS WITH RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OVERALL RELATIONS

WITH ALL COMMITTEES OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

A SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE AWARO AND EFFUSIVE LETTERS OF

APPRECIATION FROM MEMBERS OF SIX COMMITTEES.

- IN VARIOUS MANAGEMENT POSITIONS, TWICE WAS IN CHARGE

OF UNITS WHICH EXCEEDED TWO HUNDRED PERSONS.

HIRED, FIRED, .

NEGOTIATED, AND PROVIDED ADVICE, GUIDANCE AND DIRECTION AS

APPROPRIATE.

-SECRET

NN 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 36

---

## Page 37

I understand that the Summary of Agency Employment (SAE)

defines the

outer limits of what I may disclose to unauthorized

persons

concerning my employment by the Central Intelligence

Agency.

I further understand that disclosure of information

about my Agency employment which

is

not contained in my SAE may

constitute. a violation of my Secrecy Agreement. I promise that

all statements which I make to unauthorized persons concerning

my Agency employment will be consistent with my SAE and limited

by its content.

110051989

Date

JFK Act

JEK Act

6 (1) (A)

(1) (B)

NH 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page

37

---

## Page 38

APR"15 ' 97 04: 55PM USGOVERNMENT

P. 2/14

SECRET

Central Intelligence Agency

Washtigton D C20505

15 April 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT:

David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

CIA Employees

(We request that thia memorandum be returned to CIA

once the Review

Board has completed its dellberationg on the

issues discusged below.)

1.

(U) Jague. The purpose of this memo 1s to relate

CIA'& concerns to the Review Board regarding the release.of

the true names of CIA employees that appear in the JFK

Collection and to present a proposal on how this problem

might be addressed.

I. Pactual Backaround

2.

(U) To date, approximately 600 true names of CIA

employees have been identified in the JER Collection. Some

of these employees are important to the JFK story, and CIA

will continue to work with the Review Boara to releage as

many of these names as possible.

Many names, however,

appear only a few times in the entire JEK Collection and

appear to add nothing to the historical record.

3. (U) Under guidelines adopted by the Review Board

on or about 20 March 1996, any names of CIA employees are

presumptively released unless CIA provides specific evidence

to the Review Board that harm to the national security or to

the employee would likely result from such release.

Since

these guidelines were adopted,. It has become increasingly

clear that the number of names at issue, and, in most cases,

their tenuous connection to the JFK story, make this

approach unworkable with regard to both CIA's obligation to

JEK Act 6 (1)(A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

CL BY:

CL REASON:

1.5 (c)

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FROM:

HUM 4-82

SECRET

NN 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 38

---

## Page 39

. APR 15 ' 97 84:55PM USGOVERNMENT

P. 3/14

SECRET

subject: CIA Employees

protect national security information and the Review Board's

duty to inform the public about the JFK assassination in a

timely and accurate fashion. The task of locating and

Informing hundreds of former employees scattered all over

the country and the world has been a formidable one. Some

employees have contacted us to report their concerns about a

"suspicious" letter purporting to be fron CIA which they had

received.

It would not be surprising, therefore, if many

former employees ignored the letter for similar reasons,

even though they might have legitimate needs to protect

their identities.

(U) Contacting every named employee and collecting

information on each of them to present to the Review Board

will clearly take more time and effort than any of us had

anticipated. This will have obvious ramifications for how

and when the Review Board releases information to the

public.

More importantly, the decision to publicly

acknowledge employees who may have been living for over 30

years under cover is a critical one that should be made not

by default, but rather by careful planning and

consideration.

(U) Relevant to this discussion is the fact that

the Review Board and CIA have recently agreed upon a policy

for releasing true names of sources of intelligence

information. It was agreed at that time that there would be

a presumption of protecting source names; but in cases where

a source was particularly important to the JEK story and

there was no overriding national security interest, the name

would be released.

was were ding rath

Although the CIA recognizes that there

are some sensitivitles involved with sources that do not

apply to covert employees, there are also many legal and

operational similarities,

which are described herein, that

justify similar treatment by the Review Board. As 15

further detailed in Section IV, CIA, therefore, proposes

that the Review Board adopt a general policy of protecting

employee names that appear in the Collection,. with

exceptions for those individuals whom the Board believes are

important to the JER story.

II. Legal Considerationa

6.

(U) As both covert CIA employees and clandestine

reporting assets are types of "human sourceg" of

intelligence, many of the same laws apply. Although Section

11(a) of the

JFK Act provides that, when

the Act reguires

release of information, it takes precedence over all other

laws that would otherwise prohibit release, there are strong

governmental national security interests in protecting the

true names of

CIA employees.

CIA belleves that it 18

2

SECRET

H# 55157 DocId: 32404520

Page 39

---

## Page 40

APR 15 ' 97. 04:56PM USGOVERNMENT

P.4/14

SECRET

subject: CIA Employees

important for the Review Board to recongider the lawg which

protect classified Information, because they clearly reflect

a larger US Government policy to protect covert CIA

employees from disclosure.

7.

(U) By Executive order and statute, the President

and Congress have made the Director of Central Intelligence

responsible for protecting sources of intelligence.

In hig

Directive of 22 January 1946 that established the Central

Intelligence Group, President Truman made the DCI

responsible for protecting sources.-

with the establishment

of CIA, Congress also gave the DCI this responsibility.

The

National Security Act of 1947, Section 103(d) (3), codified

at 50 USC §403 (3) (c) (5), requires the DCI to protect

intelligence sources from unauthorized disclosure.

In

addition, §403 (3) (d) (2) requires the DCI to ensure that

risks to the United States and thoge involved in the

collection of intelligence through human sources are

minimized.

8. (U) Protecting the identity of individuals working

for CIA, not only covertly but overtly as well, has been of

particular concern to US lawmakers since the establishment

of the Agency.

For example, with Section 6 of the Central

Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, 50 USC §403g, Congress

specifically exempted the CIA from the provisiong of any law

requiring

the publication or disclosure of the organization,

functions, names, titles, salaries, or numbers of personnel

employed by the Agency.

(U) In 1980, Congress passed the Classified

Information Procedures ACt (CIPA) which sets out pretrial,

trial, and appellate procedures for criminal cases involving

or potentially involving classified information.

working

with the Department of Justice and the courte, can nas

successfully protected the names of CIA employees from

public release even in criminal trials where there are

heightened (i.e.,.constitutional) congiderations favoring

disclogure to the defendant of all government information

relevant to the defense.

CIPA allows for in camera ex parte

hearings in which the judge can rule on questiong of

admissibility and relevancy of classified information;

including the Identity of CIA employees who may have

Information pertaining to the defense, before it 18

introduced either to the defendant, defense counsel, or in

open court.

In some cases involving CIA, the judge has

ordered that CIA information be turned over to the defenge,

but only in some unclasalfied form such as in' a summary..

other cases, judges have reviewed the classified information

and ruled that the harm to national security outweighs the

3

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 40

---

## Page 41

APR 15 '97 B4:58PM USGOVERNMENT

P.5/14

SECRET

Subject: CIA Employees

defendant's legal rights to the information.

In still other

cases, the defense was never notified that CIA even had

Information bearing on the case, as the judge ruled that the

mere fact that CIA possessed this information was classified

and outweighed any rights the defendant had..

Moreover,

under CIPA, the Attorney General has the authority to drop a

prosecution in those cases where the risk to national

security 1s too great.

10. (U) In 1982, Congress again acted to protect CIA

employees by passing the Intelligence Identities Protection

Act of 1982, 50 USC §421 that criminalizes the revelation of ..

a covert employee or the identity of a source. This act

subjects anyone who reveals information that identifies a

"covert agent" to prosecution and provides up to 10 years in

prison and $50,000 in fines as punishment. This act

specifically defines a "covert agent" as including

"an

officer or employee of an intelligence agency...."

11. (U) Most recently, President Clinton signed

Executive Order 12958 on classified national security

Information that became effective in October 1995. Although

it requires generally that agencies make greater

declassification efforts than under the prior executive

Executive Order 12958 affords human sources of

intelligence information, which would include employees,

extra protection from the declassification provisions.

E.O. 12958, information that is over 25 years old and

historical value must be declassified within five

years:

However, information revealing the identity of a

human

source may continue to be protected.

12.

(0)

The above federal laws show a long-standing

practice by the Us Government to protect cIA employees from

disclosure to the public.

In carrying out its statutory

obligations, the Review Board should give serious weight to

this polley and afford the protection of CIA employees a

nigh priority.

IIte borational Confiderationa

13.

(U) For current CIA employees whose names may

appear in the JER Collection, the operational considerations

for protecting their identity are similar to those for

sOurces. Many of these employees have worked "under cover"

for CIA. Cover is used to digassociate entire installationg

and offices from open linkage to intelligence activities, to

enable Intelligence personnel to enter and work effectively

in foreign countries, to shield Agency employees and

authorized clandestine activitles from attention by hostile

elements and from media exposure, to facilitate access to

4

SECRET

WH 55157 DooId:32404520 Page

41

---

## Page 42

APR 15 ' 97 04:59PM USGOVERNMENT

P.6/14

SECRET

Subject: CIA Employees

certain individuals of intelligence interest, to prevent

embarrassment to host foreign governments, and to permit

plausible denial of CIA's

countries.

presence and activities in foreign

14. (U) The ability to maintain one's cover is

crucial to gathering intelligence.

In either a "hostile" or

"Irlendly" country, should the local gervice become aware of

who the CIA employees are,

it would increase surveillance

and make unilateral operations difficult if not impossible.

In some countries, the local government tolerates the CIA

presence and agrees to work with us as long as the local

population 18 not aware of the circumstances.

becomes known among the locals that certain US Government

officials are actually CIA, pressure may be placed on the

government to expel those Americans, disrupting liaison and

diplomatic relationships.

More importantly, covert

employees and

their families would face increased riek to

their personal safety.

Even in "friendly" countries, our

employees could face some personal risks as well as risks. to

ongoing operations from extremists who may be living among

an otherwise benign local population.

In any of these

cases,

ghould a covert employee's cover be publicly

compromised, that employee may have to be recalled

from. the

field; and 1t could be difficult to place him elsewhere in

an operationally and physically secure location.

Thus,

maintaining cover is important to a case officer's

effectiveness and to the continuation of a career with CIA.

15. 18) Maintaining the confidentiality of cover is

also important to cover providers.

The Review Board will

recall from prior brlefings by the Agency that covert CIA

employees, both in the United States and overseas, can work

cover

or "non-

_cover. Disclosure of a

covert employee would not only be official acknowledgment of

the specific cover mechanism employed by CIA but would also

negatively affect the governmental or business mission of

the cover provider, especially those who provide non-

Acknowledgment of an employee who had been

under non-official cover in a host country and possibly in

other countries could have a negative impact on the

cast suspicion on that

their families.

That exace and activitien employou and

•It woula als

Furthex, exposure of cover providers could

affect the recruitment and cooperation of such providers by

the Agency and Intelligence Community.

16. (S) Although the majority of names that appear in

the Collection are retired CIA employees, the operational

considerations in revealing their affiliation with CIA are

5

SECRET

JEK Act

JEK Act

6

(1) (A

(1)(B

1N 55157 D0010:32404520 Page 42

---

## Page 43

APR 15 ' 97 05:00PM USGOVERNMENT

SECRET

P.7/14

MAJEK Act

6 (1) (A)

JUEK Act

6

(1) (B)

Subject: CIA Employees

not diminished.. Similar to sources, many former employees

st1ll do not want their past affiliation with Cia revea.ed.

Perhaps their current friends, family, or employers are not

aware of this past affiliation; and revelation of that lact

could negatively affect personal and professional

relationghips.

Some former employees st1ll live overseas

where a revelation of CIA affiliation poses risks to their

personal safety.

Other former employees travel overseas on

business, where a revelation of a past CIA affiliation can

threaten their business Interests and personal

safety

One example of an employee in this category isL

whose name apparently appears only once in the

Collection.

retired under

he currently has a consultant business and Erequently

cover;

travels to

Release of his name would jeopardize not

only his business but perhaps even his safety.

À similar

example 1s

who also retired under

cover.

He is now working In l

and several

countries for a private firm.

He does not want his

name published, because it could be damaging to his current

employer and his professional status.

17.

18y. Even if a former employee agrees to the

revelation of his name in the JFK Collection, this might not

be possible for other reasons.

In some cases, officially

acknowledging a covert employee could threaten ongoing

operations on which that employee worked.

Foreign nationals

recruited by the employee and still providing information to

the US Government would be at risk of exposure. Public

acknowledgment could reveal the location of CIA stations

where. the employee worked throughout his career, including

some not released by the Review Board. Any individuals who

had substantial contact with a former employee overseas and

may have believed they were legitimately providing

information to a US corporate representative would be upset

to learn they were, in fact, alding the US Government.

18. (U) Finally, the identification of cage officers

by their own service would have a chilling effect on

prospective assets.

Prospective assets would be unlikely to

enter into a clandestine relationship with American.

intelligence if they believe that CIA does not protect even

its own staff employees from public disclosure.

IV. ProposaL

19. (U) In 11ght of the foregoing, CIA belleves it is

important to work toward a general policy of protecting CIA

employees identified in the JFK Collection, with exceptions

made for those individuals who are important to the story of

the assassination.

The Agency proposes that in most cases a

6

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 43

---

## Page 44

APR.*15 ' 97 05:01PM USGOVERNMENT

SECRET

Subject: CIA Employees

P. 8/14

AJEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JFK Act 6.

(1) (B)

substitution for the true name be used. If the Review Board

is concerned about tracking particular employees throughout

the records, a particular identifying substitution can be

used for a particular employee.

20. 181 CIA believes that this approach will not

undermine the Review Board'a obligations under the JFK Act.

A review of the JFK Collection reveals that approximately 84

• of the 600 names appear only once in the entire Collection.

In such cases, 1t 1s difficult to see how the individuals'

identity can add anything of significance to the historical

record; yet there may be some security concerng stila

associated with these individuals. For example,

retired under cover and is currently living ir

When the ciA notified him that his name appeared in

the JFK Collection and was subject to public release, he

told CIA that he was opposed to having his name released and

belleved such a release could pose personal and security

problems. Furthermore, he could not understand why his name

even appeared in the Collection, since he had no

recollection of being involved in anything related to the

assassination.

21.

l8) With regard to the approximately 500 names

that

appear more than once in the Collection, the vast

majority of these individuals played almost no role in the

JER story. One example of this is former DO officer

times. in the Collection simply because he signed off on name

trace requests. Mr.

Twas a covert CIA employee and

retired under cover.

The public release of his name would

Information about JFK. _

Tie another example of a

covert CIA employee whose name ane are set collection but

has little or no connection to the JFK story. L

retired under cover, is living in south America, and objecte

co the releage of hig name. mi.

Trecent letter to

CIA is also attached for your convenience.

22. 181 The Agency, of course, recognizes that some

names may be particularly important to the JFK story

regardless of how frequently or infrequently they appear in

the Collection.

One such example is former COS Mexico

he suen tex.

Winston Scott who CIA has acknowledged as a CIA employee.

In such cases, the CIA will continue to work with the Review

Board for an appropriate resolution.

The CIA proposes that

the Review Board and its staff identify those individuals

whom it belleves are important to the JFK story and whose

names should be released to the public. These names would

carry a presumption of release unless specific evidence is

provided to the Review Board that harm wouid likely result

7

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page

44

---

## Page 45

APR 15 ' 97 05:02PM USGOVERNMENT

P. 9/14

SECRET

Subject: CIA Employees

from such release. The CIA will conduct the appropriate

searched to determine whether release would pose national

security concerns for the Us Government or personal safety

concerns for the individual. In this way, clA and the review

Board can concentrate their efforts on individualg who are

significant figures in the JFK story, expediting the review

of the sequestered collection.

23.

(U) It 18 our hope that the CIA and the Review

Board can agree on and work out a mutually acceptable policy

regarding the identity of CIA employees that will not

undermine the important principle of protecting those who

work covertly for the US Government.

My staff and I are

ready to discuss this matter with you at your convenience.

Michael J. O'Neil

Acting General Counsel

Attachment

A.

letter

JEK ACT 6 (1) 1A

JEK Act 6

(1) 1B.

• N₩ 55157

DooId: 32404520

Page

15

---

## Page 46

APR-15 197 05:03PM USGOVERNMENT

• P.10/14

SECRET

subject: CIA Employees

DCI/OGC/LD/LCCipriani

76124

OGC-97-50971

Distribution:

Original • Addressee

1

- GC

1

- uit File - LDG00021

1

- LCC Signer

1

1

- RDC - FYI

-OGC Registry

(10 Apr 97)

• HH 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 46

---

## Page 47

Seeret

26 June 1997

Memorandum to: Jeremy Gunn

ARRB Staff

From:

Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Office

CIA/CSI /HRG

Subject:

Reference:

Employee Names Scheduled for ARRB Review

201 File and "A" Names Lists

(We request that this memorandum and its attachments be

returned to CIA once the Review Board has completed its

deliberations on the names discussed below.)

1. The above reference lists identify the protected CIA

employee names in the Oswald 201 file and on the ARRB

staff's key figures list scheduled for action by the ARRB at

its 9-10 July 1997 meeting. This memorandum is a partial

response to the ARRB's request for evidence and addresses

those individuals on the list currently employed by the

Agency and the changes in status of names.

201 List

Current employees requiring continued protection (see

attached Cover Staff reports) :

Release:

Corrections:

ENU Coplewood

Joan Field

N. Judkins

FNU Patten

Harrison I Scott

Carl Trettin

W. Walker

Remove

incorrectly identified asl

Add Barbara Graham (B. Graham)

incorrectly dropped from latest list

JFK Act

6(1) (A)

JFK Act 6

(1) (B)

CL BY :

CL REASON: 1.5 (c)

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FRM: COV 2-87

SECRET

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 47

---

## Page 48

Secret

Key Figures (A) List

Release:

ENU Connally

FNU Feinglass

Daniel Flores

Lorna McKay

George Misko

David Wilsted

2. For the remaining 38 names on the lists, we will

provide evidence supporting their cover status and the need

for continued protection as

available.

By 7 July you should

have either specific evidence or a status of search

statement for each individual.

Stanful-

Barry Harrelson

Attachments:

Cover history printouts (3) [available in CIA SCIE]

SECRET

NW 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page

48

---

## Page 49

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Filled In)

#197297

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I

understand that upon enter-

ing on duty with the Central Intelligence Agency I am undertaking a posi-

tion of trust in that Agency of the Government responsible to the Presi

dent and the National Security Council for intelligence relating to the

security of the United States of America. I understand that in the

course of my employment I will acquire information about the Agency and

its activities and about intelligence acquired or produced by the Agency.

2. I have read and understand the provisions of the Espionage Act, Title

18, USC, secs. 793 and 794, and I am aware that unauthorized disclosure

of classified information relating to the national defense may subject

me to prosecution for violation of that Act, whether such disclosure be

made while I am an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency or at any

time thereafter.

3. In addition, however, as I am undertaking a position of trust, I have

a responsibility to the Central Intelligence Agency not to disclose any

classified information relating to the Agency without proper authoriza-

tion. I undertake, therefore, not to discuss with or disclose to any

person not authorized to hear

it such information relating to the Central

Intelligence Agency, its activities, or to intelligence material under

the control of the Agency. I further understand that this undertaking

is a condition of my employment with the Central Intelligence Agency,

its violation may subject me to immediate dismissal for cause or other

appropriate disciplinary action, and that this undertaking shall be equally

binding upon me after my employment with the Agency as during it.

4. I understand that the burden is upon me to ascertain whether or not

Information is classified and if so, who is authorized to receive it,

and, therefore, I will obtain the decision of authorized officials of

the Agency on these points prior to disclosing information relating to

the Agency, and failure to obtain such a decision will be grounds for my

dismissal.

5. I understand that my unauthorized action or utterance in the nature

of a publication or which would reasonably be expected to result in pub-

licity on intelligence or intelligence activities would be in violation

of Government and Agency regulations and would be grounds for my dismissal.

FORM

I DEC

NO.

1N J5137 Do010:32404520 Page 49

CONFIDENTIAL

368

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

---

## Page 50

CONFIDENTIAL

(When Fillod In)

6. I understand that for all grievances and complaints there are estab-

lished procedures within the Agency permitting appeal by any employee of

the Agency and to carry any such grievance or complaint outside the Agency

will be considered a violation of the undertaking set. forth above in

paragraph 3.. If the appeal procedures are inadequate in any situation,

I am aware that the Inspector General is at all times available to any

employee with a legitimate criticism, grievance, or complaint.

7. I further understand and agree that my employment by the Central In-

telligence Agency is conditioned upon my understanding of and strict

compliance with CIA Security Regulations, and the appendices thereto.

8. Inasmuch as employment by the Government is a privilege not a right,

•in consideration of my employment by CIA I undertake not to publish or

participate in the publication of any information or material relating to

the Agency, its activities or intelligence activities generally, either

during or after the term of my employment by the Agency without specific

prior approval by the Agency:

9. I agree that all information or intelligence acquired by me in con-

nection with my official duties with the Central Intelligence Agency

remains the property of the United States of America, and I will sur-

render, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Agency or upon

separation from the Agency, any material relating to such information

and intelligence in my possession.

10. I take the obligations

set forth above freely, without any mental

reservations or purpose of

evasion.

12

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this

July

-, 1962

_day of

Seal)

Witness:

JFK Act 6

(1) (A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

JUL 1962

Date

CONFLBENTLAL

NY 55157

DocId:32404520

Page

50

---

## Page 51

• DEC 11 ' 95

11:14AM

P.1

FAX

$

To:

Fax #:

•Subject:

Date:

Pages!

MT. Buery Harvelson

(703) 351-2114

Dectinher mceding

. Docember 11, 1995

3, including this cover store.

COMMENTS:

The types of information that the Bourd needs to know about each of the truc nomey on

the attached list for which CIA seeks continued pratection are llated below:

1. Is the individual a current or former CIA emplyee? If so, In what capacity

did that individual serve, and did he or she serve overtly or covertly? If

currently a retired ClA employee, did the individual retire under cover?

2 linot a ClA ufficer, did the Individual serve ClA a8 an agent or asset or in any

other capacity?

3. Is the individual alive or dead? If alive, where is he or she reviding, and what

1s his or her current activity?

4. What specific and compelling danger would release of this individual's truc

name pose to himn or her at this time?

Of course, you do nt need to do anything other than identify those individuals whose

true names CIA no longer seeks to protect.

- Secret Attachment-

Fram the dock of...

Technical Asststant for Readeron and Anatusk

Assaxenaton Recorde Rontom Board

800 E BARRY, NW, Sa0ond Floa

Wastingion, D.C. 20930

a 0902) 734-0069

: HH 55157

DocId: 32404520 Page

51

---

## Page 52

DEC 11 '95 11:18AM

104-10017-10042

104-10015-10163

RiEfE

104-10016-10006

104-10015-10138

104-10095-10001

Milly Rodrigurss.

104-10095-10001

Jane Roman

104-10015-10163

Tora Ryan

104-10018-10096

104-10017-10042

104-10017-10031

104-10015-10143

Mr. Sweuson

104-10015-10233

10410015-10298

55157

DooId: 32404520

Page 52

P.1

SECKET

Dr. Stanojevic

104-10017-10001

Borla Tarasolt

104-10095-10001

104-10018-10062

104-10015-10386

(Samo es

10410017-100358)

104-10004-10257

Franklin Anthony Whodlock Carcia

104-10015-10192

104-10017-10056

JEK Act

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

SECRET

---

## Page 53

P.2

JEKE

set 6(1)11

0E:6 (11(E

SECRET

NAMKY WHICH CIA CONTINUES TO PROTECTIN DOCUMFAZIS PREPARED FOR

THE DECEMBER 12-13, 1995 ARRB MEETING

Charlotte Along

10410018-10099

104-10095-10001

010501001

Peter Buranowed

10410016-10013

01:1016105

10410017-10052

Leona Coder

104-10018-10099

104-10018-10062

104-10015-10043

107-10018-10062

1016-10015-10305

104-10017-10042

Charile Flick

104-10095-10001

104-10015-10043

10410017-10052

John Harvay

10410015-10158

Willlam Jobnson

104-10015-10396

("Johnsm" released in 104-10015-

10375)

Jin Jung

104-10017-10002

Tom Kocoa

104-10095-10001

104-10015-10160

10410015-10110

104-10015-10339

104-10015-10155

SECRET

HW 55157

DocId: 32404520

Page 53

---

## Page 54

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional Proposed CIA Name: Release

FROM

DC/OCC/OSG

1c et.

6B4403 -OHB

TO Officer

DATEY

RECEVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

37076

Tant ass

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

12

OSG

6B4403

LOHB

684401 OHB

C/OCC

6844012OHE

NO

DATE

7

;Dec

COMMENTS

o whom.

Pire:

for hand

1H7

2 1

aling

Cendo Revier Board

6

DDO

7E2

ADDO/ HRP

7E1740HB

ADDO

7E301OHB

riat

DE

0 7 1995

18

9

10

OCC /OSG:

68440320HB

13

14

-Here

1-79

610 (EF) USERENSUS

EDITIONS:

SECRET

---

## Page 55

SECRET

OCC-95-149

07 DEC 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: JFK Assassination Records Review Board

VIA:

Associate Deputy Director for Operations

Associate Deputy Director for Operations/ Human

Resources and Programs

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Chief, Office of Central Cover

Proposed CIA Name Release

1.

The Agency strongly objects to the release of names of

individuals presently under cover, whether active employees or

separated employees.

As described below, this action would

breach Agency commitments to these individuals who agreed to work

under cover in addition to breaching our obligations to the cover

providers.

2.

Employees

sign a secrecy agreement (Attachment A) upon

entering on duty with the Agency. This agreement pledges the :

employee's secrecy to information which is classified and has not.

been publicly acknowledged by the Agency and requires the

employee to protect such information from unauthorized

disclosure.

This secrecy agreement, as long as it remains in

force by mutual agreement, obliges CIA to protect the identities

of Agency employees, our cover providers and covert activities.

Because this secrecy agreement creates a moral as well

as legal bond between the Agency and the employee, it is Agency

separated under cover.unless the Agency and the employee mutually

agree to remove the cover. Identifying as CIA those employees

who are mandated by the Agency to use a cover story, i.e.,

for their entire

Agency career as well as into their years after separation from

the Agency, jeopardizes:

JEK ACt 6(1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

• the personal safety of former employees;

WARNING NOTICE

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

OR METHODS INVOLVED

CL

CL REASON: 1.5 (c)

DECL ON: X1

DRV FROM: COV 2-87

SEC

NN 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 55

---

## Page 56

AJFK Act

6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

-SECI

SUBJECT: Memo to. JFK Assassination Records Review Board

• the second careers of former employees:

• the cover and identity of other employees who worked

with the covert employee whose name is released as

CIA; and,

the protection of sources and methods (what

individual would agree to a clandestine relationship

with American intelligence knowing the secret

association would become public knowledge?).

4. Examples of how identifying covert employees as CIA will

affect individuals follows:

• Mr.

retired under

cover and is currently working

Revealing his name would damage his relationship

with his current employer, his position with the

Firm and would be awkward at best regarding the host

countries. Attachment B is Mr.

acknowledgement that he was aware he would be denied

as a CIA employee and Attachment C is his signed

secrecy agreement.

• Attachment D is a signed ackowledgement from Mr.

John Whitten who retired under cover in 1970 which

shows that he was aware that he would be denied as

an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency from

the date he entered on duty through the date of his

• departure. Attachment E is a personal letter

received from Mr. Whitten after he was notified that

his name might be released in connection with

declassification of CIA documents. Attachment F is

Mr. Whitten's signed secrecy agreement. It should

be noted that Mr. Whitten resides

altachment is a Summark et Money Employment (SAE)

written by Mr.L

and approved by the

Attachment H is a certification by Mr.

that he will abide by what is contained in

his SAE

and understands disclosure of other

information would be in violation of his secrecy

2

SECRET

NN 55157 DocId:32404520

Page 56

---

## Page 57

AJEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6

(1) (B)

SECRET

SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

agreement. Attachment I is Mr.

signed

secrecy agreement. It should be noted that Mr.

resides

5.

Our relationship with cover providers would be

jeopardized if it became publicly known that they were providing

cover to CIA employees.

The

could very well

raise objections to our future

use of

cover. Of increasing

importance to the Agency at this time is the critical use of

if

we reveal a covert relationship. Identifying covert

relationships with cover providers would paralyze Agency

operations which in turn could severely damage national security.

In addition, in the past it has exposed CIA to legal liabilities

and substantial monetary damages.

6.

Headquarters Regulation (HR) 240-1 is the Agency's

regulation on cover. It states that "cover is required for all

Agency operations, activities and installations abroad, including

personnel in PCS or TDY status."

HR 240-2, the Agency's

regulation on cover after separation, states that "the

determination that an employee will retain all or a part of his

or her cover after separation from the Agency will be based upon

the judgment that separation in an overt status could result in

damage to the national security by compromising intelligence

sources, methods, activities, and/or information, or cause harm

to foreign relations. This determination will be made on a case-

by-case basis."

7.

Release of names of former employees who separated under

cover will make the entire Agency cover program vulnerable and

detract from our continuing efforts to enhance cover and conduct

sometimes dangerous activities necessary to carry out the

Agency's mission..

We can accept the purpose of the JEK

Assassination Records Review Act to declassify documents for

public consumption; however, we submit that the release of true

names of former. Agency employees adds no value to the documents

in addition to risking physical harm to these individuals from

our public detractors.

We propose and emphatically encourage

that pseudonyms, aliases or generic job descriptions such as desk

officer be used in place of true names which would not diminish

the impact of the documents.

3

SECRET

HH 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 57

---

## Page 58

SECRET

SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

8.

After your review and consideration of the above

information, we would appreciate notification of your final

decision prior to taking any action.

Attachments:

As stated above

JFK Act

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

CONCUR :

8 Dec'95

Date

Associate Deputy Director for

Operations/Human Resources

and Programs

8 XI 95.

• Date

Associate Deputy Director for

Operations

SECRET

• HW 55157

DooId: 32404520

Page

58

---

## Page 59

SECRET

SUBJECT: Memo to JFK Assassination Records Review Board

DC/OCC/OSG

lae/37076 (6 Dec 95)

Distribution:

Orig &

1 - JFK Assassination Records Review Board

- IMS/HRS

1 - ADDO

1

- ADDO/HRP

2

- DDO Secretariat

- DO/ IRO

- OGC/LD -

1

]

1

- OCC Chron

OCC/OSG Chron

- OCC/OSG

File 785-120-034

JEK Act

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

5

SECRET

NW 55157 DocId: 32404520

Page

591

---

## Page 60

CONFIDENTTAL

(When Filled In)

SECRECY OATH

John M. Whitten

-, am about to terminate my association

with the Central Intelligence Agency. I' realize that, by virtue of my duties

with that Agency, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which

concerns the present and future security of the United States of America. I am

aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the

Espionage Laws (18 USC secs. 793 and 794), and by the National Security Act of

1947 which specifically requires the protection of intelligence sources and

methods from unauthorized disclosure.

Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR, WITHOUT

MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOL-

LOWS:

1. I will never divulge, publish, or reveal cy writing, word, conduct, or

otherwise, any information relating to the national defense and security and

particularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, meth-

ods and operations, and specifically Central Intelligence Agency operations,

sources, methods, personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, in-

cluding

but not limited to,

any future governmental or private employer, private

citizen; or other Government employee or official without the express written

consent

of the Director of Central Intelligence or his authorized representative.

2. I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims which I

may have against CIA or the United States Government which may in any way neces-

sitate the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that

any such claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however,

that I am not satisfied with the decisions of CIA concerning any present or

faction without prior written notice to CIA, and then only in accordance with

such legal and security advice as CIA will promptly furnish me.

3. I do not have any documents or materials. in my possession, classified

or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of

the Central Intelligence Agency, having come into my possession as a result of

my duties with the Central Intelligence Agency, or otherwise.

4. During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the

Central Intelligence Agency I have been given an opportunity to report all in-

formation about the Agency, its personnel, and its operations which I consider

should receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information,

which it is my duty in the national interest to disclose to the Central Intel-

ligence Agency, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which

I have not officially reported, except as set forth on the reverse side of this

sheet or on other attachments.

-CONFIDE

FORM

4. 62 305

USE PREVIOUS

EDITION.

(12)

1N J5137 D0010:32404520 Page 60

---

## Page 61

-SECRET

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I, JOHN M.WHITTEN; understand that by virtue of my duties in the

Central Intelligence Group, I may be the recipient of information and intelligence

which concerns the present and future security of the United States and which be-

longs to the United States. This information and intelligence, ingether with the

methods of collecting and handling it, are classified according to standards set

in the State, War, and Navy Departments.

I have read and understand the pro-

visions of the Act of Congress of June 15, 1917 (Espionage Act), as amended,

conceming the disclosure of information relating to the National Defense and I

am familiar with the penalties provided for violation thereof.

2. I agree that I do not now, nor shall I ever possess any right, interest,

title or. claim in of to any of the information or intelligence or the methods of

collecting or handling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by

virtue of my connection with the Central Intelligence Group, but shall always

recognize the property right of the United States of America in and to such

mat ters.

3.

I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal either

by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified information, intelligence

or knowledge, except in the performance of my official duties and in accordance

with the laws of the United States, unless specifically authorized in writing in

each case by the Director of Central Intelligence.

a 4a I understand that no change in my assignment or employment will relieve

re of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of this oath will

remain binding upon me even after the termination of my services with the United

Stated. ,

I understand that my employment by the Central Intelligence Group is

conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security

Regulations CIG," and the appenäices thereto.

5. I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose

of evasion.

In witness wheroof I have set my hand and seal this 22ndday of AUGUST 1947.

Seall

sior to basore me this 22nday of Gufuck? 47

SECRET

(711)

My Commission lixpires March 22, 1851

JEK Act

JFK Act 6

(1) 1A,

55157 Do01d0:32404520 Page 61

---

## Page 62

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

NW 55157

DooId: 32404520

Page 62

---

## Page 63

$ 163a

*REFERENCE

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B;

1H 55157

DopId: 32404520

Page

63

---

## Page 64

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

55157

DooId: 32404520

Page 64

---

## Page 65

JFK Act 6

(1) (A)

FK Act 6 (1)(B

55157

DoqId: 32404520

Page 65

---

## Page 66

JEK Act 6

(1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

1H 55157 DocId: 32404520

Page 66

---

## Page 67

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SECRET

NAME (Last, first, middle)

WHITTen

GRADE

STE

G5-16/5

RETIREMENT

RESIGNATION

LWOP

AGENCY JOB TITLE

FORM

DATE(S)

RETIREMENT AND RESIGNATION EXIT COYER BRIEFING

Johne Toss

STAFF OR DIVISION

FlOPS

VOUCHERED FUNDS

AGENCY EOD

ATTACHED

CCS FILE: NO.

UNVOUCHERED FUNDS

3102

SF- 2801

3 /July 1970

LAST WORKING DA

31 July 70

FROM

CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY INCLUDING OVERT PERIODS (include both domestic and overseas assignments)

DATE

AREA OF ASSIGNMENT

FOUNTRY

COVER

VOMINAL | INTEGRATER

PLACE

CIA IS A

MATTER OF RECORD AT (include acknowledgement by OP)

DATE

USED

PLACE.

DATE USED

No

5-10 2554 005015N5 PREYoUS

5-70

SECRET

149-12-21)

NH 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 67

---

## Page 68

FUTURE EMPLOYMENT PLANS

SECRET

0.5..ur

OVERSEAS

GOVERNMENT

NONGOVERNMENT

OTHER (specify)

RETIREMENT

FOREIGN TRAVEL PLANS

Planes to rescale

CIVIL SERVICE

I A

JEK Act 6 (1)(A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

SENSITIVE.

SPECIAL.

OR

COVERT

SITE

ASSIGNMENTS

LIST RELATIVES EMPLOYEO BY CIA

EMPLOYEE HAS NOT BEEN DECLARED OR COMPROMISED

EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN

DECLARED

COMPROMISED

CREDIT BUREAU RECOROS INDICATE

CIA AWARDS

MEDALLION

CERTIFICATE OF DISTINCTION

INTELLIGENCE

MEDAL

OTHER (specify)

LENGTH OF SERVICE CERT.

Ho second in cEs file

AGENCY MONAGENCY

COVER BRIEFING

ACKNOWLEDGE

AGENCY

EMPLOYMENT FOR COMPLETE PERIOD OF ASSIGNMENT

NOT ACKNOWLEDGE AGENCY EMPLOYMENT. USE INSTRUCTIONS AS OUTLINED BELOW

ACKNOHLEDGE PARTIAL AGENCY EMPLOYMENT AS INDICATED BELOW

STE EMPLOTREVE IST US A PER PASTURE ACTUAL ENSE LETION ENT

SERVICE. THE EMPLOYMENT HISTORY BELOW IS THE COVER

DATE

FROM

AREA

OF ASSiGNMENT

TYPE OF

COVEr

COVER ORGANIZATION

JOB TITLE

JFK Act 6

(1)(A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

NH| 55157 DocId: 32404520

Page 68

---

## Page 69

-SECRET

TYPE HEALTH INSURANCE CARD ISSUED

LIFE INSURANCE

WILL NOT CONVERT

FEGLI

GEHA

WAEPA

DEPARTING EMPLOYEES ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

NACS

UBLIC

OTHER (specify)

OTHER (spectly)

I acknowledge that I have been briefed by the Central Cover Staff on the date

Denied

noted below and do understand that I will be -

as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency from the date I entered on duty through

the date of departure in accordance with instructions as outlined above.

i nave been informed as to the employment references applicable in my case.

iSJuly 1970

JFK Act

6

(1) (A)

JEK Act

6 (1) (B)

REMARKS

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

CCS/OCM

_ccs/Ocs.

COORDINATION

cCs/oco

CCS/NC

SIGNATURE OF COVER OFFICER

FINAL APPROVING AUTHORITY

SECRET

- 4

HH 55157 DocId: 32404520

Page

69

---

## Page 70

SECRET

TAX BRIEFING SUMMARY

N.A.

BANKING INSTRUCTIONS

N. A.

FOLLOW-UP ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY COVER OFFICER

BLOCK RECORDS IN OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

YES

NOTIFY OFFICE

FINANCE TO HANDLE THE

CSC COMPUTATION FORMS IN A COVERT

MANNER FOR

BLOCKING RECOROS AT CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION

YES

111

OBTAIN REFUND OF CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT FUNDS IN A COVERT MANNER

YES

IV

RETURN OF CIARD FUNDS

FROM CSC

OVERT

APPLICATION TO PURCHASE CSO CREDITS

OVERT

VI, CREDIT UNION QUERRIED

FORWARDING ADDRESS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION PERTAINING TO DEPARTING EMPLOYEE

NEW EMPLOYMENT ADDRESS

IDENTITY AND ADDRESS

EMERGENCY CONTACT

1 NO

NO

DATE

DATE

DATE

COVERT

COVERT

YES

NO

IF SUBJECT HAS APPLIED FOR NEW EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO CONTAÇTING COS WHAT EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE DID

SUBJECT USE?

HAS

SUBJECT BEE

QUESTIONED TO ASSURE HE OR

SHE

DID NOT USE AGENCY PERSONNEL

FOR REFERENCE

SUBJECT

HAS

•HAS NOT RETURNED ALL COVER DOCUMENTATION

IDENTIFY DOCUMENTS

THAT HAVE

YES

NO

BEEN RETURNED.

IT DACKSTORPING IS NECESSARY GIVE READ Lear Come toentire percial o1 employment

Plans to desid

ANNUITY PAYMENT TO BE CHANNELED BY

GREEN CHECK

BAnK TRANSFER

NOC

CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS

1099 MAILING INSTRUCTIONS

JEK Act

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

SUMMARY OF

AGENCY EMPLOYMENT

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

APPROVED

MEDICAL RECORDS

WILL REOUEST

WILL NOT REQUEST

I SOCIAL SECURITY CREDITS

SHOULD NOTICE OF RESIGNATION BE RESTRTOTED

INHOUSE

YES

SECRET

NO

- 3 -

NW 55157 DooId: 32404520 Page 70

---

## Page 71

70978

SECURITY REMINDER

that, by virtue of my duties with the central Intelligence reminded

Agency, I have been the recipient of classified information and

information concerning intelligence sources and methods,

that my Entrance on Duty Secrecy Agreement requires me

to pro-

tect such data.

Moreover, I have been given an opportunity to

review my Entrance on Duty Secrecy Agreement.

2. I have also been reminded that I am not permitted to

retain any documents or other materials which are the property

of the CIA or the custodial responsibility of CIA, and I affirm

that 1 do not have in my possession, nor am I taking away from

CIA any such documents or materials.

3.

Finally, I am aware of my responsibility to notify the

CIA promptly in the event I am called upon by properly constituted

authorities

to testify or provide information

that I am pledged

not to disclose and I will advise said authority of my secrecy

agreement and request that my obligation to testify be established

before I am required to do so.

JFK Act

E 6 (1) (A)

JEK. ACt 6 (1) (B)

vitebuy 23 6 1980

Witness:

24 Fat. 1980

Date

FORM 305 POINtETE PREVIOUS

1H 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 71

---

## Page 72

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. 1. -

_ (print full name), hereby agree to accept as a prior condition of my

being employed by, or otherwise retained to perform services for, the Central Intelligence Agency, or for staff elements of

the Office of the Director of Central Intelligence (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Central Intelligence Agency"), •

the obligations contained in this agreement.

2. I understand that in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency I may be

given access to information which is classified in accordance with the standards set forth in Executive Order 12065 as

amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive Order, and other information which, if disclosed in an unauthorized

manner, would jeopardize foreign intelligence activities of the United States Government. I accept that by being granted

access to such information I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trust and become obligated to protect the

information from unauthorized disclosure.

3. In consideration for being employed or otherwise retained to provide services to the Central Intelligence Agency, I

hereby agree that I will never disclose in any form or any manner any of the following categories of information or

materials, to any person not authorized by the Central Intelligence Agency to receive them:

a. information which is classified pursuant to Executive Order and which I have obtained during the course of my

employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency;

b. information, or materials which reveal information, classifiable pursuant to Executive Order and obtained by me

in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency but which, because of

operational circumstance or oversight, is not formally marked as classified in accordance with such Executive Order

and which I know or have reason to know has not been publicly acknowledged by the Agency;

c. information obtained by me in the course of my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence

Agency that identifies any person or organization that presently has or formerly has had a relationship with a United

States foreign intelligence organization, which relationship the United States Government has taken affirmative

measures to conceal.:

1. I understand that the burden will be upon me to learn whether information or materials within my control are

considered by the Central-Intelligence Agency to fit the descriptions set forth in paragraph 3, and whom the Agency has

authorized to receive it.

5. As a further condition of the special confidence and trust reposed in me by the Central Intelligence Agency, I

hereby agree to submit for review by the Central Intelligence Agency all information or materials including works of fiction

which contain any mention of intelligence data or activities, or contain data which may be based upon information

classified pursuant to Executive Order, which I contemplate disclosing publicly or which I have actually prepared for public

disclosure, either during my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency or at any time thereafter,

prior to discussing it with or showing it to anyone who is not authorized to have access to it. I further agree that I will not

take any steps toward public disclosure until I have received written permission to do so from the Central Intelligence

6. I understand that the purpose of the review described in paragraph 5 is to give the Central Intelligence Agency an

opportunity to determines whether the information or materials which I contemplate disclosing publicly contain any

information which I have, agreed not to disclose. I further understand that the Agency will act upon the materials I submit

and make a response to me withina reasonable time..

7. I understand that all information or materials which I may, acquire in the course of my employment or other service

with the Central Intelligence Agency which fit the descriptions set out in paragraph 3 of this agreement are and will remain

the property of the United States Government. I agree to surrender all materials reflecting such information which may

have come into my possession or for which I am responsible because of my employment or other service with the Central

Intelligence Agency, upon demand by an appropriate official of the Central Intelligence Agency, or upon the conclusion of

my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency.

8. I agree to notify the Central Intelligence Agency immediately in the event that I am called upon by judicial or

congressional authorities to testify about, or provide, information which I have agreed herein not to disclose.

9. I understand that nothing contained in this agreement prohibits me from reporting intelligence activities which I

consider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight Board established by the President or to any

successor body which the President may establish. I recognize that there are also established procedures for bringing such

matters to the attention of the Agency! Inspector General or to the Director of Central Intelligence. I further understand

that any information which I may report to the Intelligence Oversight Board continues to be subject to this agreement for all

other purposes and that such reporting does not constitute public disclosure or declassification of that information.

FORM 368

0.70

l11Aa

NH 55157 DocId: 32404520 Page 72

---

## Page 73

RESTRICTED

20978

SECRECY AGREEMENT

1.

I

the Central.

understand that by virtue of my duties in

Intelligence Agency, I may be the recipient of information and intel-

ligence which concerns the present and future security of the United States and

which belongs to the United States. This information and intelligence, together

with the methods of collecting and handling it, are classified according to

and I am familiar with the penalties provided for violation thereof.

2. I agree that I do not now, nor shall I ever possess any right, interest,

title or claim in or to any of the information or intelligence or the methods of

collecting or. handling of it which has come or shall come to my attention by

virtue of my connection with the Central Intelligence Agency, but shall always

recognize the property right of the United States of America in and to such

matters.

3. I do solemnly swear that I will never divulge, publish nor reveal either

by word, conduct, or by any other means such classified information, intelligence

or knowledge, except in the performance of my official duties and in accordance

with the laws of the United States, unless specifically authorized in writing in

each case by the Director of Central Intelligence.

4. I understand that no change in my assignment or employment will relieve

me of my obligation under this oath and that the provisions of this oath will

remain binding upon me even after the termination of my services with the United

States.

5. I understand that my employment by the Central Intelligence Agency is

conditioned upon my understanding of and strict compliance with "Security Regula-

tions CIA", and the appendices thereto.

6.

I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or pur-

pose of evasion.

In witness whereof I have set my hand and sed the say or Febavady 19'53

JEK 'Act 6

(1) (B)

Witnessed by me this

16 th

day or 226. 19.53

at

WASHINGTON, D.

( Seal )

FORM NO.

OCT 1950

38-33

RESTRIGTER

NN 55157 DooId:32404520 Page 73

---

## Page 74

JEK Act

JEK. Act

6

(1) (A)

6

(1) (B)

KH

IF (Last, First. Middle)

JEK Act

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

RETIREMENT

ACIA

DeSC

FUTURE EMPLOYMENT PLANS

REIGN TRAVEL PLANS

SECRET

RETIREMENT AND RESIGNATION EXIT COVER BRIEFING.

STAFF

CO:TRACT

OVERT

RESIGNATION

- 2/29/80

MATERNITY LEAVE

J esC

RATE

(F

RETURN

u.s.

OVERSEAS

STAFF OR DIVISION

TAD

1D DU/PES

COVERT

06 .!: 10.

LAST

HOPKING DAY

3/29/50

L.wor

DATE Di

GOVERNAENT

NONGOVERNMENT

..

VSITIVE, SPECIAL. OR COVERT SITE ASSIONMENTS

EMPLOYEE HAS NOT BEEN DECLARED OR COMPROMISED

EMPLOYEE HAS -BEEN

DECLARED

BACKSTOPPING IS NECESSARY CIVE REASON

COMPROMISED (specifr)

COVER BRIEFING

ACKNOWLEDGE AGENCY EMPLOYMENT FOR COMPLETE PERIOD

OF ASSIGNMENT

DO NOT ACKNOWLEDGE AGENCY EMPLOYMENT, FOLLOWN INSTRUCTIONS OUTLINED SELON

ACKNOWLEDGE PARTIAL AGENCY EMPLOYMENT AS INDICATED BELONN

•E EMPLOYMENT HISTORY gELOW IS THE COVER STORY CONTRIVED FOR USE AFTER. SEPARATIDN FROM THE AGENCY.

DATE

FROM

AREA

OF ASSIGNMENT

TYPE OF

COVER

COVER ORGANIZATION

JOR TITLE

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

=

2554

USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

. :

NN 55157

Doc1d:32404520

Page 74

-SECRET WNSISM

E.2, IMPDET CL. BY: 011180

• 14-9-12-211

---

## Page 75

JEK Act

6

(1) (A)

JEK Act

16

(1) (B)

SECRET

FOLLOW-UP

ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY COVER OFFICER

BLOCK RECORDS IN OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

YES

BLUCK CREDIT RECORDS

/YES

BLOCK TELEPHONE LOCATOR RECORDS

/YES

NO

NO

EFFECTIVE DATE

EOD

7eb 53

EFFECTIVE DATE

EOD.

NO

PREPARE

FORM 1551

ISSUE I.D: CARD

#- 2 FORM

TYPE:

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

PERTAINING TO DEPARTING EMPLOYEE

IF

EMPLOYEE HAS APPLIED

FOR NETi EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO CONTACTING COS WHAT EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE WAS USED?

ESI

HOSPITALIZATION INS.CARD

TYPE:

AGE

SUBJECT

HAS

Mis

NOT RETURNED ALL COVER DOCUMENTATION. IDENTIFY DOCUMENTS THAT HAVE NOT BEEN RETURNED.

RELATIVES. EMPLOYED BY CIA (name

and

relationship)

DEPARTING EMPLOYEES ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

I certify that I have been briefed by the Central Cover Staff on this date and I

understand that:

I will be acknowledged as an

employee of the Central Intelligence Agency in

accordance with the instructions set forth in the Cover. Briefing Section above.

X I will not be acknowledged as an employee of the Central Intelligence

Agency.

I have been informed of the employme

-5 titta-

1980

REMARKS

JFK Act

6(1) (A)

JEK Act

6

(1) (B)

SIGNATURE

Retirement adarioo!

JFK Act

6

(1) (A)

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

CCS/ OCB/M

CCS/ OCB/S

NAME AND CLANATURE

CCS/DFB

AF

COVER OFFICER

CCS/CCB

COORDINATION

SECRET

JEK Act 6

JEK Act 6

(1) (A)

(1) (B)

Tccs/co8

COMPONENT

ICCS/KT

CENCO

3-03-50

• CCS/CSB

DATE

2-25-80

NH 55157 DocId:32404520 Page 75

---

## Page 76

• DEC 07 '95

11:54AM

SECRECY AGREEMENT

P. 3/3

1. I,

_ (print full name), hereby agree to accept as a prior condition of my

being employed by, or otherwise retained to perform services for, the Central Intelligence Agency, or for staff elements of the

Director of Central Intelligence (hereinafter collectively referred 10 as the "Central Intelligence Agency"), the obligations

contained in this agreement.

2. I understand that in the course of my employment of other service with the Central Intelligence Agency I may be

given access to information or material that is classified or is in the process of a classification determination in accordance

with the standards set forth in Executive Order 12356 as amended or superseded, or other applicable Executive order, that if

disclosed in an unauthorized manner would jeopardize intelligence activities of the United States Government. I accept that by

being granted access to such information or material I will be placed in a position of special confidence and trust and become

obligated to protect the information and/or material from unauthorized disclosure.

3. In consideration for being employed or ocherise fatained layprovide services so the Central Intelligence Agency. I

hereby agree that I will never disclose in any for or any manner, to any person not authorized by the Central Intelligence

Agency to receive it, any information or material in either of the following categories:

a. information or material received or obtained in the coutse of my employment or other service with the Central

Intelligence Agency that is marked as classified or that i knew is classiled;

b. information or material received or obtained in

course of my employment or other service with the Central

Intelligence Agency that I know is in the process of a classication determination.

4. I understand that it is

responsibility to consule with appropriate management

authorities in the component or

Directorate that employs me or has verained my services, or with the Central Intelligence Agehick's Publications Review Board

if I am no longer epployed byfor associated with the Agency, in order to ensure that I know. ID waether information or material

within my knowledge or control thar

maxe reason to beliove might be in either of the categories ser forth in paragraph 3 is

considered by the Central Intelligenc

yo fit in either of those categoriex

a2 whom the Agency has authorized to

receive such information or material

5. As a further condicion of the special cor

ineme by she Central Intelligence Agency, I here-

ng or pther preparation in any form, including a

might be based upon either of she categories set forth in paragraph 3, chays contemplate disclosung publicly or that I have

actually prepared for public disclesure, ewher during my eraploymend ar other service with ibe Gental Intelligence Agency or

ar any time thereafter, prior to discussing is with or showing ing anyone ho is not aurhorised to have access to the categories

toward public disalogure gntil I have received written

permission to do s

of the Central are higence Agency.

6. I unde

yehe purpose

perfew described in paragrapho is to give the Central Intelligence Agency an

opportunity to

whether the informador or material that l contemplate dischosing publicly ebrains ay information

or marerial that I

agreed nor to disclose I further understand that the Agensy wilhact upon my submission and make a

response to me

-reasonable time. Frunhet understand that if I dispur the agency's initral deterannation on the basis

that the informan

Question denyes from public sources,

• I may be called upon to specuically identify such

sources. My failure gr

Do may byjiself result in denial of permissian ig publish or othe

Consclose the information

or matenal in dispur

7. I understand

employment or other service with

the Central Intelligence A

hat fineither of the palegories geforth in paragraph

Puts agreement are and will remain

the property of the United 'States Govemment unless and ant offerwise determinedo

of a court of law. I agree to surrender anything constituting containing of reflecting such, information or material upon demanc

by an appropriate official of the Central telligence Agency, or upon the conclusion of my employment or other service with

the Central Incelligence Agency.

8. I agree to notify the Central Intelligence Agency immediately in the event that I am called upon by judicial or con-

gressional authorities, or by specially established investigatory bodies of the executive branch, to testify abour, or provide, in-

formation or material that I have agreed herein not to disclose. In any communication with any such authority or body, I shall

observe all applicable rules or procedures for ensuring that such information and/or material is handled in a secure manner.

9. I understand that nothing contained in this agreement prohibits me from reporting intelligence acrivities that 1 con-

sider to be unlawful or improper directly to the Intelligence Oversight Board established by the President, or to any successor

body that the President may establish, or to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives or the Senate.

I recognize that there are also established procedures for bringing such matters to the attention of the Agency's Inspector

General or to the Director of Central Intelligence. In making any report referred to in this paragraph. I will observe all applicable

rules or procedures for ensuring the secure handling of any information or material that may be involved. I understand that

any such information or material continues to be subject to this agreement for all other purposes and that such reporting does

nol constitute public disclosure or declassification of that information or material.

IN 55150r 168d: 32409520

DESOLETE PAEVIOUS

Page 76

---

## Page 77

10. I understand that any breach of this agreement by me may result in the Central Intelligence Agency taking admin-

istrative action against me, which can include temporary loss of pay or termination of my employment or other service with

the Central Intelligence Agency. I also understand that if I violate the terms of this agreement, the United States Government

may institute a civil proceeding to seck compensatory damages or other appropriate relief. Further, I understand that the

disclosure of information that I have agreed herein not to disclose can, in some circumstances, constitute a criminal offense.

11. I understand that the United States Govemment may, prior to any unauthorized disclosure that is threatened by me.

choose to apply to any appropriate court for an order enforcing this agreement. Nothing in this agreement constitutes a waiver

on the part of the United States to institute a civil or criminal proceeding for any breach of this agreement by me. Nothing in

this agreement constitutes a wavier on my part of any possible defenses I may have in connection with either civil or criminal

12. In addition to any other remedy to which the United States Government may become entitled, I hereby assign to the

United States Government all rights, title, and interest in any and all royalties, remunerations, and emoluments that have resulted

or will result or may result from any divulgence, publication or revclation of information or marerial by me that is carried our

in breach of paragraph 5 of this agreement or that involves information or material prohibited from disclosure by the terms of

this agreement.

13. I understand and accept that, unless I am provided a written release from this agreement or any portion of it by the

Director of Central Intelligence or the Director's representative, all the conditions and obligations accepted by me in this agree-

ment apply both during my employment or other service with the Central Intelligence Agency, and at all times thereafter.

14. I understand that the purpose of this agreement is to implement the responsibilities of the Director of Central Intel-

ligence, particularly the responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods, as specified in the National Security Act of

1947, as amended.

15. These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligarions

rights or liabilities creared by Executive Order 12356; seccion 7211 of title S, United States Code (governing disclosures io

Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Acr (governing

disclosure to Congress by members of the Military): section 2302(b)(8) of title S. United States Code, as amended by the

Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safery threats); the

Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (SO U.S.C., 421 er seg.) (governing disclosures that could expose confidential

Govemment agents), and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including

section 641, 793, 794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section. 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950

(50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabilities created by said Executive

Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are.controlling.

16. I understand that nothing in this agreement limits or otherwise affecis any provision of criminal or other law that

may be applicable to the unauthorized disclosure of classified information, including the espionage laws (sections 793, 794 and

798 of Title 18, United States Code) and she Intelligence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (P.L. 97-200: 50 U.S.C.. 421 es

seq.).

17. Each of the numbered paragraphs and lettered subparagraphs of this agreement is severable. If a court should find

any of the paragraphs or subparagraphs of this agreement to be unenforceable. I understand that all remaining provisions will

continue in full force.

18. I make this agreement in good faith, and with no purpose of evasion.

19. This agreement shall be interpreted under and in conformance with the law of the United States.

Signature

Date

The execution of this agreement was witnessed by the undersigned, who accepted it on behalf of the Central Intelligence

Agency as a prior condition of the employment or other service of the person whose signature appears above.

WITNESS AND ACCEPTANCE:

Signature

Printed Name

Date

HH 55157 DocId: 32104520

Page 77

---

