# docid-32330551

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90090-10214

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 115-2494-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1970

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

v9.1

DocId: 32330551 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F

DATE :

11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Reeords Collection Act vI 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

CONFIDE

413/81

-912512a0

BATE

TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH

Gurd

DECLASSIFLES DY

ON 5

94

Ministry of Government

Directorate General of Security

General Headquarters of Social Investigation

Madrid, August 22, 1970

Subject: Cubans, Rolando MASFERRER ROJAS and Jullo CONSTANZO

PALAU

0/ReI.: Brid. Esp. Ext. No. 954 L/52-89

A(4)

Y/Ref.: Communication 11922 of the fourth of this

month

With the communication mentioned in your reference

was enclosed was a photocopy of some information obtained

from the US Embassy in Paris concerning the captioned Cubans,

giving details about their records and activities in the

u.s.

to report:

In rexesence with take matter, he have the lolloring

Cuban

citizen, Rolando Arcadio MASTERRER ROJAS

was born in Holguin (Oriente, Cuba) on January 12, 1918;

is married, a journalist and a lawyer. His physical

description and photograph are accurate. As is known,

in his youth he was attracted by communist ideas and

enlisted in a Cuban volunteer unit (almost all held the

same ideology), which fought with the then Spanish Red

Army. MASFERRER eventually became Political Commissioner

of the 46th Division, part of the Army Corps of the

LamOUs Valentin GONZALEZ GONZALEZ, aka "el COnger no

(the peasant). He fought at the Ebro Front.

In view of these activities during the war in

Spain, it is logical to assume that he does not wish to

return to Madrid, where his behavior is known.

On the

other hand,

his relations with former President General

BATISTA and his followers are not good any longer.

was reported on June 2, there is no indication that he

has entered Spain, at least as a Cuban citizen and under

this name.

Inquiries at various inns and a review of the

aliens files of our Brigade confirmed this.

"The Cubans

of pro-Batista milieux have no knowledge of the former.

Cuban senator's arrival in Spain. Because of his

, TRANSLATED BY:

MADELEINE TORRES: mis wil

September 25, 1970

ENCLOSURE

HEREIN IS UACLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE,

DocId: 32330551 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Rèlease i

DATE Y

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

11-11-2017

04

not

appearance and actions, he will/go unnoticed.&u

It appears that MASFERRER knew that he was in

difficulties with the American authorities.

In order to

elude them, be resigned from the

board of directors of

the "LIBERTAD" weekly, stating that he was leaving the

U.S. territory in order to struggle more actively

against the CASTRO regime.

It is then that the rumor

of his trip to Spain must have started.

However, it is

also said that he may be found in El Salvador, Haiti

or the Dominican Republic, engaged in some political

uprising project, of which he is so fond.

It should be

noted that Senator MASFERRER is not on good terms with

the followers of General BATISTA and that he has planned -

always from places in the U.s.

- future invasions of Cuba

and other operations of

tac nilitary nature. It was

said that for his training and that of his

men be counted

on the

cooperation of

the CIA and of the famous "Green

Berets" of the US Army.

Naturally, it is not known

just how true this information is;

but it does illustrate

the point that many things are said about former sena

MASFERRER, a man of

action and evidently dangerous.

Concerning his supposed companion, JULIO PALAU

ATON CONSTANZO OF JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, We are

inclined to believe that his true name is Julio Anton

CONSTANZO PALAU, also an active individual and a dangerous

gunman.

We have received information to the effect that

he was one of the members of the famous "Gatillo Alegre"

and, whose work in Cuba was the physical extermination

of political enemies; that is to say, an activity very

similar to that of Rolando MASEERRER.

Some people say

that he was a lieutenant in the Rebel Army and that he

participated

in gunfights, wounding the gunman known as

"El Mejicano".

Several violent deaths are attributed to

him, and he is considered to be mentally unbalanced. du)

The information in our Brigade's files does

not reflect the fact that he has entered Spain.

However,

one Pedro Alfonso CONSTANZO PALAU, born on 5/2/39 in

Palma Soriano (Oriente, Cuba) ,

andengineer, entered

Spain through Barajas airport on 12/27/66

and left through

the same airport for the U. S. on 6/20/67.

He resided

in Lacorauna, at #18 Calle Ramon de la Sergra.

Since

then, he has

not entered this country again.

Pedro Alfongo

and Julio Anton CONSTANZO PALAU must be brothers. Au

- 2 -

DocId: 32330551 Page 3

---

