# docid-32286548

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10324

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-11305-23, 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/30/1970

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

GMC, JEWELER, ASSOC, ACT, INTV, DYER, HERSHEL

DAVID, WALDROP, JAMES F

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

v9.1

NW 45865 DocId: 32286548

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FiA- 26,3 (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

JOSEPH ROBERT PROVENZANO (IN) , aka

Joseph Provenzano, Jr.,

Junior Provenzano;

ELDON JUNIOR LEGAN, aka

Eldon Legan;

UNSUB #2;

(TITLE CONTINUED COVER PAGE B)

DATE

4/27/70

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/4/70 - 4/7/70

REPORT MADE BY

SA THOMAS L.

COLARELLI

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED B

nmb

POSSIBLE ITSP

Title marked "CHANGED" to reflect identity of

Unsub #3, who posed as the jeweler, as GEORGE ALBERT MC GANN

as developed through investigation.

7=13

8

- REFERENCE: New Orleans report of SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI, 2/19/70

-P -

INFORMANTS:

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

On 2/13/70 NO 1793-PC advised that he had just

received a call from

TINY BARNES, operator of the Royal

Oaks

Motel, Marrero, La., who told him that three unknown white ras

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

* NONE

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

LACQUIT.

TALS

APPROVES]

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIE TO B

Búreau

(92-11305) (RM)

- Departmental

Atty:, N.O., La.

1

2

1

-

Dallas (Info) (RM)

Jackson (92-248) (RM)

Pittsburgh (Info) (RM)

3 - New Orleans (92-1029)

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES XINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS:

]YES

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW / Mi

92-11305-24

MCT 30

REC-7

MAY 1

1970

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

60MAY 151978 7 149

NW 45865 DocId: 32286548

Page 2

STAT SUCT

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 3

NO 92-1029

CONTINUATION OF

ITLE FROM COVER PAGE A:

GEORGE ALBERT

MC GANN, aka

JoedGoldberg;

DR. SALVATORE-CARUSO, aka

Sal Caruso - VICTIM;

CLYDE VALSIN BOURGEOIS, JR., aka

Clyde Bourgeois - VICTIM;

DR. RUSSELL T. RIBANDO, aka

R. T. Ribando - VICTIM

INFORMANTS (continued):

from out of town had stopped by the motel looking for

JUNIOR, not realizing that he no longer operated same.

They-

told BARNES that they did not want to meet JUNIOR in public,

and wanted to know where he was "sleeping." PC did not know

the significance of this information.

On 1/17/70 former SA WILLIAM F. DUKES, Gulfport,

Miss., attorney, furnished the following information to

SA DAVID P. HURLEY:

On the day that DONALD LESTER JAMES was buried,

he was telephonically contacted by former JN 14-C. During

the conversation, this former source advised that prior to

the date that JAMES was shot, she was visited by a former

acquaintance, INU KRAMER Or CRAEMER. KRAMER informed the

source that JAMES and two other men had pulled a "score"

on MIKE MAROON (phonetic), a Gulfport attorney and

close personal friend of CARLOS-MARCELLO., It appears that

the two men were in the room with MAROON and JAMES was in

an adjoining room.

After MAROON found that he had been taken,

he was able to identify one of the men involved in the

"score," and after this man received a severe beating,

he allegedly identified JAMES as being the third man.

B

COVER PAGE

HW

45865 DocId: 32286548 Page 3

---

## Page 4

: NO 92-1029

DUKES advised that it is the former source's

opinion that possibly this was the motive for the

shooting of JAMES.

It is to be noted that the MIKE MAROON mentioned

above is probably identical with the MIKE MAROON who is an

attorney for CARLOS MARCELLO and who lives and works in

Shreveport, Louisiana. No additional information has been

obtained from other sources regarding the above mentioned

incident.

JN 424-C advised SA BENJAMIN F. CRAVES on

1/15/70, he had no suspects as to who might have shot

DONALD LESTER JAMES on 1/11/70; however, he had heard

that someone had given JAMPS a beating a few weeks prior

to the time that he was shot.

Informant did not have .any

additional information regarding this beating.

PCI

infornation to SA

furnished the following

GRAVES on 1/27/70:

DONALD. LESTER JAMES came into Gus Stevens

Restaurant in Biloxi, Mississippi, about ten days before

he was killed. JAMES

asked the informant to call him a

taxi and then

stated he had left his automobile at

Caesar's Palace, which is located on U.S. Highway 90 in

Biloxi, Mississippi. Informant stated

that JAMES appeared

to have

been walking or running, and he appeared frightened,

and he made the commerit, "i'm going to have to make up my

mind to kill those two S.O.B.'s, or they are going to kill

me."

Informant stated that JAMES

made no explanation

regarding this comment, and he has no additional information

regarding JAMES' action on that night.

He stated he had no

idea as

to who night have killed JAMES.

JN 10-C-TE furnished the following information

to S/, GRAVES on 1/16/70:

A najority of the friends of DONALD. LESTER JAMES

who were at the wake and funeral service are of the opinion

that JAMES was

killed by CALVIN KENDALL MORRIS, also known

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

NW 45865 DocId: 32286548 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-1029

as "Frits" and "Big John Tech" (phonetic), who is an

associate of MORRIS. He stated that the story is on

the street that. JAMES supposedly told MORRIS and TECH

about DIANE WHITEMIRE, an associate of DUEY D'ANGELO,^

who is employed at the Sinbad Club in Biloxi, Miss.,

who had some jewelry at her Southern Ave. residence in

Biloxi. MORRIS and TECH supposedly would burglarize

WHITEMIRE's residence and then JAMES would fence the

items taken.

Supposedly something happened in connection

with this deal'

and the shooting resulted.

On the night of 1/6/70 or the morning of 1/7/70,

DIANE WHITEMIRE's residence was burglarized and she lost

between $8,000 and $9,000 worth of various items.

On 3/17/70 AT 2025-C advised SA ROYAL A. MC GRAW

that he had heard about an associate of GERALD GUTHRIE

being killed at Biloxi, Miss. RONNIE JENKINS, Cairo, Ga.,

is employed as a truck driver and hauls produce out of

South Florida. JENKINS told informant that he was recently

at the service station operated by HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE,

U.S. Hwy. 84 East, Thomasville, Ca. HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE,

aka

"SHORTY," received a telephone call from JIMMY ALBRITTON,

Jackson County, Fla. ALBRITTON told GUTHRIE about someone

getting shot..

GERALD GUTHRIE was present when his father

received the above telephone call. GERALD GUTHRIE immediately

wanted to leave to go to the place where this person had been

shot. His father, HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE, told him that

he could not go.

AT 2025-C had also heard through RONNIE JENKINS

hat someone had taken an automobile belonging t

BRALD GUTHRIE at Fort Walton Beach, Fla.

This automobile

had been wrecked and was subsequently recovered by

GERALD GUTHRIE.

AT 2025-C advised that he recently learned that

GERALD GUTHRIE and HILTON BENNETT PAYNE had been to a

COVER PAGE

NW 45865 DocId: 32286548 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NO 92-1029

poker game operated by THILBERT ROGERS in the vicinity of

Pavo, Ga. "GUTHRIE and PAYNE allegedly had a large number of

$50 bills. Between them, they lost approximately $600 at ..

this poker game. THILBERT ROGERS operates a grocery store

on the Ione Road approximately two miles out of Pavo, Ga.

He occasionally holds poker games in a wooded area in the

vicinity of Pavo.

Prior investigation by the Atlanta. Office has

shown GERALD GUTHRIE to be the son of HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE,

aka "SHORTY" GUTHRIE.

Prior to the fall of 1963,

HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE operated a numbers racket in the

vicinity of Thomasville, Ga.

This numbers racket was

broken up and HOLLIS LAFAYETTE GUTHRIE was subsequently

sent to prison. He now operates a service station on

U.S. Hwy. 84 East, Thomasville, Ga. Prior investigation

has shown his son GERALD GUTHRIE to be a gambler.

GERALD GUTHRIE is primarily a poker player. He has been

an associate of JIMMY ALBRITTON, Jackson County, Fla..

AT 2025-C has previously advised that

GERALD GUTHRIE is a crooked poker player and is not too

clever in concealing his manipulation of the cards. Informant

feels that GERALD GUTHRIE will someday get into serious

trouble because of his crooked card playing.

On 3/17/70 NO 1283-PC advised SA HAROLD V. HUGHES

that he had learned that as of yesterday ELDON LEGAN is

currently living in a trailer somewhere in the West Bank

area of

suburban New Orleans. Although he did not know the

name of the specific trailer park, it was his opinion that

a surveillance of PROVENZANO could readily determine this

information.

LEADS:

DALLAS AND PITTSBURGH (INFORMATION)

Information copies of this report furnished Dallas

E

- COVER PAGE

HW 45865 DocId: 32286548 Page 6

---

