# docid-32305834

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10288-10464

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-1ST NR 2319

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, DE

TITLE :

DATE: 04/30/1968

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, DOMINANT ORGANIZE CRIME GROUP, IDENT,

MEMBERSHIP STRUCTURE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305834

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 - Mr. Kent

• Mx. Emery

4/ 30/68

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SAC, Detroit (237-2856)

Director,

FBI (66-2502-]1- 34)

TOP SOMALON CHEMINAL

INFORMAND PROGRAN,

LA COSA NOSTRA - ANTI-RACKETEERING

It has been previously pointed out that one of our

primary goals in the Crininal Intelligence Progran is the full

identification and subsequent prosecution of the membership of

La Cosa Nostra (LCN), the dominant group in organized crine

in this country. With an ever increasing public awarenoss of

the significance of LCY on a national basis and in consideration

the Bureau's vast responsibilities in the field of organized

crime,

it 1s necessary that complete intelligence be developed

regarding

BEN:

A review of progress reported in the identification

of ICN mombers discloses that a substantial number have been

identified

Your office has reported an increase in the number

of ICN members rosiding in your territory fron 30 to 4l within

the past one-year period.

It is

noted, however, that the

structure of the Detroit

"family" has not been completely

developed.

There currently exists a need for your office to

identily "caporegimas" and the membership assigned to each in

your division:

DE 1059-CIE has been of assistance in identifying LCN

members, but as you know, he has boen relatively inactive in LCN

affairs

in the recent past. To appropriately discharge your

responsibilities, additional nember intornante in ICH are

required.

These

the only sources currently available who can

provide accurate and authentle data regarding LCh

Theảt

importance cannot be overemphasized.

Your Top Echelon Criminal Infornant Program must be

specitically ained at a further penetration of tch.

To this end,

you should maintain an aggressive and continuous Top Echelon

lainal talomant frogra.

- 92-6054

(LCN-AR)

JEK: bjn

YELLON

MAY (?)

ist.

1968

F139

NOT RECORDED

180 MAY

2 1968

DocId: 32305834

Page 2

---

