# docid-32155390

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10108-10101

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-1639-342

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. LA

TO: SAC. DL

TITLE:

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

DATE: 11/27/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

JR, BKG, ASSOC, FAM WITH POL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463 DocId: 32155390

Page 1

---

## Page 2

URGENT

11-27-63

1-05 AM PS I LKW

TO SAC DALLAS

FROM SAC LOS ANGELES 44-895

JACK RUBY, AKA--LEO OSUALD DASH VICTIM DASH DECEASED,

CR 00 DALLAS.

EARL NOBHAN INTERVIEVED AT RESIDENCE, ONE ONE ONE ONE

LARRABEE STREET, LOS ANGELES, FURNISHED NO DEROGATORY

INFORMATION CONCERNING RUBY. FD-THREE ZERO THO-S FOLLOW.

NORMAN STATED ONLY NEWSPAPER MAN SEEN IN RUBY-S CLUB

WAS TONY ZOPPI OF THE DALLAS MORNING NEWS. NORMAN NEVER

SAW DON SAFARIN OF THE DALLAS, TIMES HEROLD IN THE CLUB.

NO SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF UNDERVORLD CONNECTIONS, CHICAGO.

OR DALLAS. NO SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF PARTICULAR DALLAS PD

OFFICERS FRIENDLY WITH RUBY. NO KNOWLEDGE OF RUBY-S

BACKGROUND

IN CHICAGO OR OF ANY SUBVERSIVE CONNECTIONS.

NO KNOYLEDGE OF OSWALD OR VHETHER RUBY KNEY OSHALD.

NORMAN STATED CLOSEST ASSOCIATE OF RUBY WAS RALPH

PAUL, OPERATOR OF DRIVE IN RESTAURANT IN ARLINETON, TEXAS,

WHOM NORMAN BELIEVED HAD AN INTEREST IN RUBY-S NIBHT CLUB.

END PAGE ONE

44-1639-

NODD SEN

34/2

NOV 2 7 1963

FBI - DALLAS

HW 54463 DocId: 32155390 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

A MAN. NAMED GEORGE PAREN LNU UNPAREN, WHO LIVED IN THE

SAME APARTMENT HOUSE AS RUBY, WAS A CLOSE FRIEND OF RUBY

AND WAS OFTEN IN THE CLUB.

FOR INFORMATION OF DALLAS, LA FOUR ONE THREE FIVE

DASH C ADVISED NORMAN HAD CONTACTED INFORMANT TO BOOK

BOTH NORMAN AND WIFE, CLAIRE BARTLETT, INTO THE LARGO NIGHT

CLUB, WHICH INFORMANT DECLINED TO DO. INFORMANT BELIEVED

BARTLETT WORKED FOR RUBY IN DALLAS, AND BELIEVED BARTLETT

WAS IN LOS ANGELES, HOWEVER, NORMAN STATED WIFE AND FAMILY

WERE IN DALLAS AT SIX ZERO ONE THREE RELAN STREET, TELEPHONE

TAYLOR SEVEN EIGHT FOUR TWO FOUR.

END ACK PLS

OTHER OFFICES ADVISED AL LAST TWO

JD 4-10 AM CS I'OK FBI DL FLL

CORRECT MY STARTING TIME TO 2-05 AM OK

HOLDOK

HH 54463 DocId: 32155390

Page 3

---

