# docid-32338809

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10227

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-63

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NIT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO:

HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

2

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

LET

v9.1

… HH 54460

14

DocId: 32338809

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Hederal Bureat

atinatin

Waited Stater Department of Juatire.

Angeles 13,

California

March 30, 1945

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILENO. 100-21198

OR VICTORY!

BUY

• WATER

WAR

ABONDS

STAMINS

PERSONAL AND CONTIOENTTAL

Directors FBI

Re :

1M86

JOHN HOWARD LAWS ON,

alias Jacob

A272

Dear Sir:

10980

Subject

Division.

a Communist key figure in the Los Angeles Field

Authority is hereby requested to install a microphone surveillance

at the residence of subject, 4542 Coldwater Canyon Avenue, North Hollywood,

telephone Sunset 2 8485.

The Bureau has previously authorized the maintenance

of a technical or tolephone surreillance on subject at that address, which is

currently being maintained,

LAWSON is

the real leader of the. Communists in the motion

pioture industry. He was reported Chairman of the Northwest Section, Los

Angeles County Communist Party--U.S.A. (motion picture industry section) until

it became the Communist Political Association in June, 1941. He is currently

& member of the seven-nan Motion Picture. and Radio Commission of the Los

Angeles County CPA which appears to set the policy for the Communists in the

motion picture and radio industry. In addition, LAWSON is a member of the

Executive Board of the Hollywood Democratic Committee, an important front

organization in Hollywood, and is an official of the Hollywood Writers Mobili

zation which, of course, is.

currently writing all the scripts for the Overseas

Film Bureau of 0.W. I.

Hollywood Writers Mobilization, which committee is responsible for the entire

O. our LASt also a member of the Bot be or ta on the

product from the selection of ideas to writer and producer assignments in these

0.W. I. scripts... Subject is also a member of the Executive Board of the People!s

Educational

Center which has replaced the. League of American Writers School for

DUE ANNO

It has been ascertained through Confidential National Defense

Informant IA JO-l and surveillances by Bureau agents that in any matter of

importance

the Communists in the motion picture industry which arises,

HOWARD LAWSON is consulted.. Also, meetings of the Motion Picture and Radio

the Hoilywood Writers Mobilization and other meetin

He also confers with ELIZABET

former Northwest Section Organizer, who appears to act in the same

concerning the

policies of the CPA in, the notion picture lystry and the

radid industry and

BE/ AAR 181945

COMES DESTROXED

2O MAR 25

1963

CONFIDEL

74 54460

DocTd: 32338809

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Director

farch 30, 1915

Re:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, W.a,

INTERNAL SECURITY (C)

19981

allied cultural fields could be obtained through the installation of a micro-

phone surveillance at the LAWSON home.

The Bureau's attention is particularly

invited to the fact that LAWSON has stated that he and his wife, SUlIAWSON,

are going to attend the International Security Council meeting at San Francisco

which begins April 25, 1945. Therefore, if the Bureau deems it advisable to

authorize: this installation it is requested that los Angeles be advised prior

to April 25, 1945, since only in rare instances during the investigation of

LAWSON have both he and his wife been out of Los Angeles together in the past.

very truly yours,

Ritua

R. B.

HOOD

SAC

100-21198

JRV : RV

=2--

NH 54460

DooId: 32338809

Page 3

---

