# docid-32282613

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10067-10273

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-5756

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NIl 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

RYAN, D.

TO:

BASSETT

TITLE:

DATE: 05/09/1978

PAGES: 2

- SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, ASSOC, INTV, BIFFLES, KENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/03/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

06/08/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32282613

Page

---

## Page 2

}

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr Basset pas

FROM : D. Ryan

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET,

DATE: 5/9/78

Assoc. Dir. =0,

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv. _

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

5668500

Dan

Mr.

Bassett

Mr. Cregar

(Attn: Mr. Nolan)

CT! LEE HARVEY

OSWALD SCIDE

(Attn: Mr. Kinsey)

1 - Mr. Mintz

Classified by.

108 51

Chs)

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

1 - Mr. Ryan

ALT TAORMATTON PETRAT NED

Declassify on: OPER

11826

1 - Mr. Foster

BARITA IS THETIC.

12D

PURPOSE NeS 418 RE421518 4578)

EXCUE? WHIBRS SHOWE

OTHERWISE.

To furnish additional information relating to news reporter

Kent Biffle's interest in captioned subject.

DETAILS: Kent Biffle's name was noted, among others, in personal papers

belonging to Lee Harvey Oswald (Bufile 105-82555-2579). Biffle was

interviewed by the FBI on 12/16/63 (Bufile 105-82555-1212).

He advised

that he was formerly employed by the Fort Worth (Texas) Press as a reporter

in the latter part of 1959 and had been assigned to prepare articles on

Oswald's defection.

He mentioned no personal contacts with Oswald, but

stated he utilized public source information on Oswald and had contact

with Oswald's mother and brother for background information. He also

which he actually knew about Oswald KEG-45.

stated that the resultant articles (three) contained "all the information

105-82-555-5756

Recent review of information obtained from a very sensitive

source in 1959 discloses

that BiffleftelephonicallyAtried to contact snu)

Oswald in Russia.

11 fom 11/14/59 to Oswald at the Hotel Metropole

in Moscow was "placed'

Mr. Biffle," although no conversation was

ssle" on 11/16/59 was

recorded binoche cal poor he hect n a " Xo " 5-14825615-1679.

and 1679).

The source of this information has not been utilized

05 RMB

1-12-94

(JFK)

as sin

"disclosure of which would

seriously affect the internal

security of the United States."

11:1 MAY 24 1978

Since source information does

not disclose the results of anym

between Biffle and Oswald while Oswald was at the Hotel Metropole

in Moscow in 1959;isince the FBI did interview Biffle concerning his

interest in Oswald, which he explained; since the new details add nothing

nor change what is known; and since further written dissemination of these

new cetail albi only serve to pontic a tier source on

potential, resultant publicity, it is not felt that written

of the new information is warranted at

300: CLASS

D'JC: mel/(7)

CONTINUED - OVER

CLASSIFIED BY

EXEMPT FROM

OS CATEGORY

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plar

FBUDOJ

7 9 JUN 0 & 19783

NW 53025 DooId: 32282613

Page 2

---

