# docid-32977093

## Page 1

Date :

Page

07/14/98

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

NSC

145-10001-10273

178

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

10-04=2017--------

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : DOD

FROM : BRIG. GEN. LANSDALE

TO

TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE: 10/31/62

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:02/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) SQXS/L

MAR

DATE EXEMPTED:

2016,

JS RE-REVIEW DATE 31 DEC 2437

CLAY TO RELEASE AS REDACTED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54214 DooId: 32977093

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

30 October 1962

SENSITIVE

FOR THE RECORD

By Brig. Gen. Lansdale S

Subject: Operation Mongoose

John McCone asked me to call him on the gray telephone this

morning. I did so. He stated that he didn't know exactly how I was

supposed to get word on this, so he was informing me to help out:

at the Executive Council meeting this morning, the President had

decided to hold back Operation Mongoose for the time being. Also,

during the negotiations re Soviet missile bases in Cuba, there were

to be no Mongoose sabotage or similar militant operations. McCone

said that he had informed General Carter of this, but was letting me

know, as Chief of Operations, to let the operations team know; he .

mentioned that Alpha 66 and the approved sabotage of Cuban shipping

were to be held, specifically.

I commented that I had just received a copy of a memorandum

from him to the Attorney General, the Sec/Def., etc., dated today,

saying that Cla was still awaiting word from me on sending in 20

teams by submarine for intelligence collection, after l'd determined

JCS and State requirements. I said that I had been told by McGeorge

Bundy on Sunday, 28 October, to hold up action on this for 24 hours

and had promptly notified CIA, and that yesterday, upon receipt of a

memorandum from Bruce Cheever on this same subject, I had taken

it up again with Bundy -- and Bundy had told me that he would tell

McCone to have CIA hold everything. I presumed that Bundy had so

informed McCone. Also, Havey had called me Sunday night, asking

my permission to discuss CIA assets with CINCLANT and JUWTF

for contingency planning; I had given Harvey permission to assist

in this planning, if he felt that the U.S. military needed more planning

help from CLA.

After the talk with McCone, I talked with Bruce Cheever who

assured me that he had similar orders from Carter and that all militant

actions under CIA were being held at a stop. I gave similar orders to

General Johnson for Defense /JCS. It-Col Patchell concurrently

informed State and USIA along the same lines.

THE

SECRET

200.10

DOZE

ALLY

16

1178

HH 54214 DoId:32977093 Page 2

---

