# docid-32212567

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER

:179-40007-10215

RECORDS SERIES

LOT 85D275: RECORDS RELATING TO LEE HARVEY OSWALD

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE :

01/31/64

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

NEEDLEMAN, ISIDORE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: U.

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: p

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:/ /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS

FOLDER: OSWALD CASE-- FBI REPORTS; BOX F11

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50529 DooId: 32212567 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

BUREAU OF INTELLIGENCE AND RESEARCH

TRANSMITTAL OF DOCUMENT FOR RETENTION OR DESTRUCTION

DATE

ma. 8hrlich

filo

L - Mr. Meeker

MARCH 13, 1964

The attached information is for confidential utilization. It is NOT to be disseminated outside the Department.

The communication may be RETAINED or DESTROYED; it should NOT be retumed to INR. If DESTROYED, se-

curity procedures as outlined in Section 1985, Vol. S, Foreign Affairs Manual must be followed.

CLASSIFICATION OF ENCLOSED DOCUMENT

CONFIDENTIAL

(Synopsis & pages 11-14)

IF SECRET, THE DOCUMENT:

consists of

pages; Number_

_ of

_ copies, Series -

CC:

RE:

OSWALD, Lee Harvey

INR/DDC: R. M. ULBRICH

This Transmittal Form Becomes UNCLASSIFIED Upon Removal of Any Classified Enclosures.

FORN

1 - 83 DS-15140

GP 0 943581

HH 50529 DocId: 32212567

Page 2

---

## Page 3

0a24051

SECRET

ME: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

Copy to:

ALL USMaROR COSTES

MARES I UNGLASSIFIED

ANGEFT WHERE SHOWB

OTHSONISE

Report of:

Date:

Office:

Field Office File #s

VICTOR A.

1/31/64

LEMAITRE

100-78633

New York, New York

Bureau File #:

100-341652

Title:

ISIDORE GIBBY NEEDLEMAN

4/6/94

Character:

Declassiason.

PE5 1, 14, 10, 12,1314.000/

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY, - R

INTERNAL SECURITY ACT, 1950

~ NEEDLEMAN continues to reside at 444 Central

Park West,

New York City, and to maintain a law office

In Suite 2810, 165 Broadway, New York City.

He was

hospitalized until 11/20/63, following a mild heart attack,

and resumed work on a limited basis in December, 1963.

He continued contacts with KONSTANTIN SEMENOV and other

Amtorg officials, principally In connection with tax

NEEDLEMAN discussed future of sovfoto Agency with

LIUBA SOLOV. Former CP member revealed NEEDLEMAN WAS CP

Educational Director, in NYC, 1935.

NEEDLEMAN was in contac

with MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER Of CCCI, and JAMES ARONSON Of

"National Guardian"

"brier" In LEE HARVEYXOSWATD case.

He opposed publication of MARK LANE's

NEEDLEMAN initially

gloated over shooting of President KENNEDY:

Contacts with

numerous individuals set out.

Bank accounts reviewed for

October and November, 1963.7 Ju>

-

Jus.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sio/mde

CONE IN

TIAL

DECLASOIFY ON: 25X.

Grou

SK: 2/5/98

Excluded from automatic

PES lilA, 1D, 12, 13;14

downgrading and

declassffiçation

MAR 6

1964

OFFICE OF

CURITY.

INTELLIGENCE PROUESSING SECT.

SECRET

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBi and is loaned to

your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 50529 DooId: 32212567 Page 3

---

## Page 4

GuideRi

SECRET

NY 100-78633

TABLE OF CONTENTS

RESIDENCE

EMPLOYMENT

FAMILY MATTERS

HEALTH

3

NEEDLEMAN'S INTEREST IN TRADE WITH

COMMUNIST

COUNTRIES

Amtorg Trading Corporation

Four Continent Book Corporation

Edwin S. Smith

American-russian chamber of conneraão

NEEDLEMAN'S COMMUNIST PARTY ACTIVITY

11

NEEDLEMAN'S ACTIVITIES WITH CP FRONT

ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

11

Citizens Committee for

Constitutional Liberties

Emergency Civil Liberties Committee

"National Guardian"

National Lawyers: Guild

11

11

12

14

MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITIES

NEEDLEMAN's Reaction to Assassination

of President KENNEDY

14

OTHER CONTACTS OF NEEDLEMAN

15

Page

2

2

- 1a

SECRET

74 50529

DooId: 32212567

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

NY 100-78633.;

NEEDLEMAN'S BANK ACCOUNTS

CHARACTERIZATIONS

Indiviâuals

Organizationa and Publications

Page

29

32

32

52

- 10-

SECRET

74 50529

DocId: 32212567

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY: 100-78633

ABT, JOHN

ARIZA, ANGELA

ARONSON, JAMES

BEAL, LEONA

BERKOWITZ, SAM

CHAPMAN, HENRY

CROWN, JOSEPH

DRUCKER, DAVID

DWECK, MORRIS

DYLAN, BOB

FEINSTEIN, JOSEPH

FELMAN, HELEN

FELTENSTEIN, DI. MILTON

E LEID, OLGA

FINK,

IRVINC

FITZGERALD, EDWARD

FREEDMAN, DAVID

FRIEDLANDER, MIRIAM

FRIEDMAN, MILTON

GLASER, EDA

GOLDMAN, DON

HOROWITZ, BESS

HUBLEY,

AAITH

HUBLEY, JOHN

ISSERMAN, • ABRAHAM

ISSERMAN,

JOAN

IVANOV, IGOR

74 50529

DooId: 32212567

Page 6

INDEX

- 10

SECRET

Page

15,32

15,

29,32

:12, 13,32

15,33

15,33

26,

27,33

7,

8

,33

16,33

16,34

12,34

6,7,

3,.

16,

17,18

9,34

16

,34

12,34

16,35

17,35

19,36

15,36

11,36

17,18,

19,37

9,37

22

21,37

20,38

20,38

11,38

11,38

6,27,39

SECRET

---

## Page 7

NY 100-78633

JEROME, FRED

KAPLAN, IRVING

KAUFMAN, SIDNEY

KEENEY,

MARY JANE

COROSTBLEV, ANATOLITES)

LAMONT, CORLISS

LANE, MARK

LEHRER, SUSAN

LISS, ABE

MAGDOFF, BEATRICE

MAGDOFF, HARRY

MAGDOFF, SAM

MAKAROV, BORIS I(>

MENDELL, IRVING

MENDELL, MARTHA

MOORE, STANLEY

NEEDLEMAN, CHARLES

NEEDLEMAN, EDITH

NEIKBUG, MARJORIE

BELSON,

STEVE

OSWALD, LEE HARVEY

PERLMAN, SAM

PERLMAN, SHELLEY

PERRY, EDWARD

RABINOWITZ, VICTOR

ROSS, NAN

ROSS, PAUL

RUBINSTEIN; ANNETTE

RUBINSTEIN, JEAN

RUSSELL, ROSE

74 50529

DooId: 32212567

Page 7

SECRET

Page

17,39

14, 19,30,

39

20

39

4,

40

40

12,

13,

22,

12,17,21,22,24,29,

21,22,24,

22,

22,

22,23,

22,

40

40

4

41

41

41

41

10

42

42

42

2.3,12,20,23,24,29

23,

23,

12, 13

2

21

-Id-

SECRET

---

## Page 8

4c 20.

NY 100-78633

SAROFF, SOPHIE

SEBORER, CELIA

SEBORER,

MAX

SEMENOV, KONSTANTIN

SHAFER, JACK

SMITH, EDWIN S.

SOBELL, HELEN

SOLOV, LIUBA

STANDARD, WILLIAM I.

STECK, ROBERT

TANKEL, LEONID

WALLERSTEIN, EDWARD

WEISS, WALTER

WELLS, HARRY K.

WEETS,, ROSLYN

WILSON, H. H.

WOLFF, MILION

YOUNG, MARTIN

- le..

SECRET

74 50529

DooId: 32212567

Page 8

SECRET

Page

24,25, 46

15,

29,41

15,25,46,47

4,5,6, 7,

8,

9,47

25,47

10,47,48

24, 48

10,48

5,6,7,8,9, 14, 25, 49

24,25,26,49

/26,27,28,49

11,12,28,50

10,50

28,29,50,51

28

, 29,51

29,51

10,51

-14,51

---

## Page 9

1:7 100-78633

SECRET

NEEDLEMAN'S COMMUNIST PARTY ACTIVITY

Early in December, 1953, Ny I-5, a former member

of the Communist Party (CP)

recalled that NEEDLEMAN waS

his flest CP teacher In 1955, wnen a class fee new CD

members was heid in District 24 of the CP in New York City.

According to NY I-À NEEDLEMAN was Eductional Director of

the CP in New York City at that time anc the class was

held at District Headquarters, located on 4th Avenue,

near 28ch Street, Manhattan.

NEEDLEMAN'S ACTIVITIES WITH CP

FRONT ORGANIZATIONS AND OTHER

ORGANIZATIONS

Citizens Committee for

Constitutional Liberties (CCCL)

Early in December, 1963, NY I-I learned that

MIRIAM FRIEDLANDER was looking for someone to handle

fund raising activities for the CCCL, and that JOAN

ISSERMAN had been suggested to her.

NEEDIEMAN ascertained that JOAN ISSERMAN

and her husband, ABRAHAM ISSERMAN, were currently

residing in Park West Village, 382 Central Park West,

New York City.

NEEDLEMAN subsequently attempted to in-

terest JOAN ISSERMAN in the position.

JOAN ISSERMAN

indicated that she would be visiting her family until

after the first of the new year, but that she would

consider the proposition at that time, provided no-

one else had usen obtained for it.

Emergency Civil Liberties

Committee (ECIC)

Towards the middle of December, 1953, NY T-1

advised that, NEEDLEMAN learned from EDWARD WALLERSTEIN

-

11 -

SCUREN

NW 50529 DooId: 32212567

Page 9

---

## Page 10

NI. 200-78633

SECRET

and frOm BEATRICE MAGDOFE, both of whom had attended

the ECLC Dinner on December 13,

1963, that the Tom

Paine Award had been given to a folk singer named

BOB DYLAN.

EDWARD WALIERSTEIN told NEEDLEMAN thai

DYLAN,

either under the influence of alcohol or of

drugs, had made a long, ranbling, Incoherent speech

in the course of which

he had asserted that there

This reference

to the presumed assassin of President KENNEDY brought

about loud bosing and hissing and, according to

WALLERSTEIN, evidently hurt the collection of money.

NEEDLEMAN, indicating that he had liütle

use for the ecLe, expressed considerable pleasu

that such an incident should have happered to this

organization.

"National Guardian"

Towards the end' of November, 1963, NY T-1

reported that EDITH NEEDLEMAN informed her husband

that there had been some

very good speeches and some:

wonderfui people at the "National Guardian" Dinner

on November 26, 1963. She mentioned that Di. MILTON

FELTENSTEIN ana PAUL and NAN ROSS, who were at her

¿able, had made contributions to the "Natlonal Guardian". (wi

The came informant advised that BEATRICE

MAGDOFF subsequently informed NEEDLEMAN that the

•"National Guardian" Dinner had been a tremendous

success. She related that the RABINOWITZes (possibly

VICTOR RABJNOWITZ, had given $1200, while

CORLISS

IAMONT and his wife had donated $2000.

Early in December, 1963, the foregoing

Informant reported that NEEDLEMAN

asked JAMES

ARONSON whether the "National Guardian"

would be

- 12.-

SECRET

NW 50529 DocId: 32212567

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

N7 100-78633

interested in an article by a prominent attorney on

the legal aspects of the assassination of President

KENNEDY, even though it might be stale by the time it

got'into print.

ARONSON said he would still like to

consider it, if it was an interesting article.

1963,

NY I-2 advised that NEEDLEMAN forwarded to the

shortly before the middle of Decembelinational

from one JEAN FORTIER MARTIN of Pasadena, California.

Towards the middle of December, 1963, NY T-2

advised that JAMES ARONSON informed NEEDLEMAN that

MARK LANE was preparing a paper on the case of LEE

HARVEY OSWALD (presumed assassin of President KENNEDY),

which was to be published in the "National Guardian"

Of December 19, 1963.

According to NY I-2, this article was based

on evidence submitted by the Dallas, Texas, Police'

Department and by the local District Attorney.

expanded on the American presumption of innocence and

on the bungling of the case by the Dallas Police. He

quoted from statements by the American

Union and the Philadelphia Bar Association, and concluded

that if character witnesses had been able to appear for

OSWALD,

they would have given compelling testimony.

NEEDLEMAN disputed this conclusion and pointed

out that the Russians had a dossier on OSWALD which in-

uh pointed

dicated that this individual was unbalanced. NEEDLEMAN

"National Guardian" publishing

LANE's article at this

did not approve of the time, before the case had been

reviewed by a tribunal which merited respect. NEEDLEMAN

felt ARONSON would be doing the public a disservice to

print it. He could not convince ARONSON, however, to

hold off until Chief Justice WARREN's committee had given

its report.

= 13.-

SECRET

NW 50529 DocId: 32212567

Page 11

---

## Page 12

NY 100-78633

SECRET

National Lawyers' Guild (NG)

Shortly after the middle of November, 1963,

NY T-1 advised that WILLIAM L, STANDARD infonned

NEEDLEMAN that he had attended a meeting of the Board

of the NIG on Novender 20, 1953 and that no one had

referred to the faci that NEEDLEMAN had resigned from

the organization.

STANDARD said the business of the

meeting had been mainly a report concerning the young

people and the need to attract them to the Guild.

STANDARD urged NEEDLEMAN to withdraw his

resignation but NEEDLEMAN declined, asserting that

he was through with the Guild.

MISCELIANEOUS ACTIVITIES

Reaction to the Assassination

of President KENNEDY

During the latter part of November, 1963,

NY I-1 reported that IRVING KAPLAN advised NEEDLEMAN

that President JOHN F. KENNEDY had been shot in Texas.

NEEDLEMAN is initial reaction (before it was known that

the president was dead, was that he hoped the President

would suffer more than his father.

KAPLAN pointed out

that this event was not good for anybody, but NEEDLEMAN

said it was good for him to think that President KENNEDY

was getting his just desserts.

NY T-I advised that some days later, however,

NEEDIEMAN discussed with MARTINYYOUNG the assassination

of President KENNEDY.

NEEDLEMAN now described it as

horrible and stated

that ne was afraid we now

a

President who was not a heavy weighi mentally.

MARTIN YOUNG was of the opinion that even

If the alleged assassin had perpetrated the murder,

he was not alone and someone else had worked with him.

- 14-

SECRET

NW 50529 DooId: 32212567

Page 12

---

