# docid-32271587

## Page 1

JFK RECORDS

v09-16-96ccr

CrOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD

NUMBER: 180-10142-10283

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 23-25-34

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

tO :

TITLE:

PROTS: 06/13/78

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

SUBJECT(S) : CIA, SOVIET SECTION;

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

CIA, FILES;

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/08/95

COMMENTS: Box 14

Date in: 01/26/96

FF:

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53080 Date:

74 53080

DocId: 32271587

Page 1

---

## Page 2

6/13/18

435-173-4

die, saucet Section - Para station under deplomatie cover

offec under non-officeal cover

Offee in house; lettle would be writtes there -would

It seat to i under core; the provided to this.

hampull worked for lin (H); seat meas to His because

I was in hospital

LeBrared Of Suppet; Researed Braved tollection of lafo.

I was Chef of a Blanch-uatel trasfer to paris

КИТИтР - АСА

Not so.p. to terrew returning defectors for any of Maels:

- noose flued up

- Bureauis juredection

ODACID - State Lept.

Il got most of 3. D. memos; it should have gone to him

"sites if 960- met have teed a mistake.

other satable channels porcibly

LPOVER- cover -probably a ferm

KUDOVE: ADP:

AF AN/3: Negal traveler program; done by them

save:

then obsestional requiemests

Picked this petton up is ope; he west to USSR; fell ia

HH 53080 DocId:32271587 Page 2

---

## Page 3

dove w/sat gude; lance out i was debufed; weat back in s,

maced the tame set ta sume of 1962-mited to de

get we but; CIA persuaded the not to go talk; she came

out 20 Mug. or Sept. 1962

Unnaual forM O. to get out so USSR la that not too mary sor.

wers got out.

REPLANS Wefe cane out; Wra dater named by Moreato as tre of les agents.

KUDESK: seculty or II Staff

Hawey stry: O story; pestably fat a typs.

Deceit remember talking to C. thes.

#: 6111162-011-11 PAris

#: @911162-

Here heard senors to effed that IHD was ageat

intapar:

Casdais A 55-59 at least

4: 51-55 va JApAN

1158-4161, 1 worked in 5R/9 - Specal Ds of SU. - 6 peless

SRIID -

Negal Trav. - US

Se 12,3,4,5 -

serenally sow Who was gong to USSR MoM SRIO; And impasable Do

Is not to know if he had thad wolveren

HH 53080

DocId: 32271587 Page 3

---

