# docid-32303800

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10312

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-265

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/28/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, ASSOC, CIP, ADMIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId:32303800

Page 1

355

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EDENTAL

ANGELO BRUNO

T-9

T-10

1-11

T-12

T' -13

T-14

T-15

T-16

T-17

T-18

T-19

T -20

T-21

Confidential records of federal agency.

A motel operator who associates with a number

of hoodlums in the Miami area.

Numbers operator who is a close associate of

members of the Jewish racket element in

Philadelphia.

Bookmaker, numbers writer, bootlegger, with

numerous

underworld contacts.

Resident of Philadelphia, active in politics,

well

acquainted with Italian hoodlums.

An agent of a federal agency.

Numbers writer with contacts among racketeers,

burglars, thieves, and drug addicts.

A resident of Philadelphia, closely acquainted

with Italian racketeers and their families.

A bartender who has wide association in

criminal element in Miami area.

Formerly a desk clerk at the Carib Hotel,

Miami Beach, Fla., who had contact with the

criminal element

who frequented that hotel.

An individual acquainted with numerous thieves,

racketeers and prostitutes who reside at or

frequent the Beaux Arts Apartments, North Bay

Village, Miami Beach, Fla.

Former police officer, now associated with a

Florida

car rental agency through which he has

contacts with the criminal element.

Owner of a car rental agency who gambles and

does business with a number of members of the

criminal element in the Miami area:

-

2

-

DocId: 32303800

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote.

DATE: 11-14-2017

ANGELO BRUNO

T -22

T-23

T-24

T -25

T' -26

T-27

T -28

T -29

T- 30

T-31

T -32

Of Italian extraction, former State Prison,

(Massachusetts) Inmate, has a very wide

acquaintance with the Boston criminal under-

world, particularly in Italian circles.

An old bookmaker, bartender in spots fre-

quented by the criminal element in Boston

and a thief.

He was well acquainted with

the suspects (convicted) in the BRINKS case.

He has a good general knowledge of all major

criminals in the Boston underworld.

An Individual who possesses a criminal record,

has a wide acquaintance with underworld figures

In the New York City area, and remains in close

contact with many underworld figures.

A representative of a state agency which

conducts criminal type investigations.

A native of Brooklyn, N. Y., who possesses

a criminal record and is acquainted with many

underworld

figures.

A nativeeof Brooklyn, N. Y., who possesses

a criminal record and has a wide acquaintance

cook and

with underworld figures.

Unavailable.

An employee of a federal investigative agency.

A native of Brooklyn, N. Y., who possesses a

criminal record and is personally acquainted

with many criminal figures in Brooklyn. He has

been acquainted with gambling ventures and

gamblers in the past.

An employee of a Philadelphia bank.

Common-law wife from approximately 1950 - 1953

of CHARLES TOURINE.

3

DocId: 32303800

Page 3

---

