# docid-32297527

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10219-10303

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-3267-275

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/02/1962

1

JRO, ASSOC, TELCAL, FRAIRS CLUB, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: • INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297527

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 411-14-2017

Mr. Tolson-

OF INVESTIGATION

Mr. Belmont

MALENT OF JUSTICE

Vir. Mohr

FONS SECTION

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

AUG

3 1962

Mr. DeLoach?

Vir. Evans

TELETYPE

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. T'avel

URGENT

8/2/52

10-47.

PM

AH

Mr. Trotter-

Tele: Room

Miss Holmes.

DIRECTOR, FBI 92-3267

Miss Gandy

FROM

SAC,

JOS ANGELES 92-1130

1P

JOHN

ROSELLI, AKA. AR.

901

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED THAT ON JULY THIRTY ONE

LAST WHEN MAURICE HO FRIEDMAN MADE TELEPHONE CALL TO LOUIS

LEDERER, FROM FRIAR-S CLUB ROSSELLI TOLD FRIEDMAN TO TELL

QUOTE HIM UNQUOTE TO GET OUT HERE AND BRING THAT ATTORNEY.

INFORMANT ADVISED HE SAW ROSSELLI AT FRIAR-S CLUB,

BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA, AT ABOUT FOUR FIFTEEN P.M. ON

AUGUST ONE LAST. AT ABOUT SEVEN FIFTEEN P. M. ROSSELLI REMARKED

HE WAS GOING TO TAKE STEAM BATH AND THEN GO HOME.

WHILE AT FRIAR-S CLUB ON AUGUST ONE LAST ROSSELLI WAS

WITH MAURICE FRIEDMAN AND RALPH MARKS.. MARKS TOLD INFORMANT,

"HE LOST THREE OR FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS.

ROSSELLI TOLD DALE ROBERTSON, TV ACTOR, NOT TO FORGET

THEIR DATE ON AUGUST TWO INSTANT AT SEVEN P. M. AT PERINO-S

RESTAURANT. FRIEDMAN THEN REEMPHASIZED PERINO ENGAGEMENT•

ROBERTSON TOLD INFORMANT HE WAS CURRENTLY IN THE BUSINESS

OF LENDING MONEY.

B6592-3967-275

END AND ACK PLS

1-52 AM OK FBI WA NH

10 AUG 3

1962

TU DISC

281541

AUG 8 19629

DocId: 32297527 Page 2

---

