# docid-32298618

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10394

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-3267-529

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 45945 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

11/02/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/22/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HT 45945

DoçId: 32298618

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FROM:/D

FBI

Date: 11/2/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267) (RM)

SAG, GOS ANGELES (92-1136)

JOHN

ROSELLI, aka

RECH

According to Information received from LA 42680

and IA 4396C*, ROSSELLI has been residing at his Los Angeles

apartment during the past week.

On 10/30/63, LA 42680, between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00

observed ROSSELLI at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills,

California, and described ROSSELLI as being "half drunk. "

WER Law 11(a)

Bette

dated 7/28/98d

*3

for deep iT, no) any 91-3-267-529

2-Las Vegas

1-Los Angeles,

HED/1ma...

IS NOV

4 1983

(6)

TiCK

Approved:

NOV & Spegislagent in Charge

NW 45945 DooId: 32298618 Page 2

Sent .

_M

Per.

---

## Page 3

LA 92-1130

JEK Law 11(a)

Inasmuch as the allegation that the persons found in

CAMPBELL's residence were members of the FBI is completely

the Bureau has been advised in a separate communication

ERas CAMP BELL and CANTILLON will be Interviewed concerning the

allegation.

on 10/31/63, LA 4396-0#, furnished information 1nd1-

cating that ROSSELLI planned to leave Los Angeles on that date

via plane, probably for las Vegas, Nevada.:

On 11/1/63, Information was received from the

Intelligence Division of the Los Angeles Police Department

that ROSSELLI, MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, J. MENDOZA and B. WILLIAMS

departed Los Angeles för Las Vegas on 10/31/63, via TWA flight

196 at 12:25 p.m.

JFK Act 6 (4)

TPCI, advised that on 10/31/63, JOH

ROSSELLI came to the Beverly Crest Hotel in Beverly H11l3,

California,

about 11:30 a.m., and visited with MAURICE

FRIEDMAN, B. BRANK WILLIAMS

and J. MENDOZA, who were staying

ment left the hotel and informant believes they departed in

and WILLIAMS allegedly had a "big deal"

several bankers.

Informant has previously furnished informa-

tion that B. FRANK WILLIAMS is a part owner of the Hotel Last

Frontier Corporation in Las Vegas, as 1s also MAURICE: FRIEDMAN.

Informant advised

that J. MENDOZA

was from Las Vegas and

possibly is an attorney. The current Las Vegas telephone

2 -

92-3267-529

45945 DooId:32298618 Page 3

---

## Page 4

JEK Act 6 (4)

LA 92-113C

directory lists a

JOHN

MENDOZA,

Vegas Boulevard

South,

astvegas, Nevada

an attorney, 130 Las

advised that FRIEDMAN and WILLIAMS

told him that they intended to return to the Beverly Crest

Hotel on the evening of November 1,

He did not know

1f ROSSELLI and/or MENDOZA Intended to return at the same

time.

Informant said that from general conversation overheard

by him between these four men prior to the time they left the

hotel, he received the impression that possibly the Hotel

solved.

In this connection, it 1s known that for sometime

FRIEDMAN and others connected with the Hotel Last Frontier

Corporation have been endeavoring to sell

some of their

Interests in this corporation.

3

HH 45945

DocId: 32298618

Page 4

---

