# docid-32561545

## Page 1

pia Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

JeLe

Evaris

Malohe"

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

Teletype

URGENT

7-11-62

TO DIRECTOR

5:50 PM EDST ERA

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

112055

ANAGERUNO, ANA: ARO RE PHILAFELPELA TELEPHONE CARLITO

BUFFALO JULY 11, 1962; AND PHILADELPHIA AIRTEL JUNE 20, 1962,

DESCRIBING AND FURNISHING BACKGROUND FOR CALOGERO SINATRA,

ITALIAN NATIONAL, PLUS IDENTIFYING INDIVIDUALS BUFFALO

VICINITY KNOWN TO CALOGERO.

PH 614-C-TE THIS AFTERNOON ADVISES SINATRA ACCOMPANIED

BY ANGELO BRUNO AND WIFE, SUE BRUNO, DEPARTING PHILADELPHIA

THIS AFTERNOON FOR BUFFALO, NEW YORK. INFORMATION FROM

PH 623-C% INDICATES STAY POSSIBLY FOUR DAYS DURATION.

PH 623-0% ON JULY 10, 1962 ADVISED THAT ANGELO BRUNO

TOOK SINATRA TO NEW YORK JULY 9, 1962 TO FULFILL COMMISSION

DESIRE TO MEET SINATRA. UNIDENTIFIED COMMISSION MEMBERS IN

NEW YORK INTRODUCED BRUNO TO HIS COUSIN IN SUCH A MANNER AS

TO SHOW SINATRA TO BE AN "AMICO NOSTRO" MEANING SINATRA HAS

CRIMINAL COMMISSION ASSOCIATIONS. INTRODUCTION TO BRUNO

PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH COMMISSION AS "A FRIEND OF OURS."

INQUIRY PHILADELPHIA INDICATES ONLY FLIGHTS AVAILABLE

TO BUFFALO ARE UNITED FLIGHTS 245 AND 485 DEPARTING

PHILADELPHIA 3:40 PM AND 6:25 PM RESPECTIVELY.

REC- 48

92=

624

2717-

I1 JUL 12 196%

58 JUL 1 8 1962

If the intelligence

contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45737 DooId: 32561545 Page 1

---

