# docid-32285761

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2101 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10194-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1490

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/01/1964

2

SGI, FISUR, GAMBLING RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32285761 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 PReT 117-6031

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

I CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO XXXTELETYPE

Toison

al to non.

Casper -

Callahan

conrad

DeL oach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

4836 AM COSTI DÉFERRED 10-1-64 EH

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

010740

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA; AR.

CG 6621-PC ADVISED THAT FOLLOWING

RÉCENT GAMBLING RAID

CONDUCTED IN ROSEMONT, ILLINOIS, BASED ON FBI WARRANT, CONTACT

MADE WITH CHARLES GIANCANA, AKA CHARLES KANE, SAM GIANCANA'S

BROTHER BY MAYOR OF ROSEMONT FOR PURPOSE OF HAVING KANE CONTACT

BROTHER WITH REQUEST TO HAVE GIANCANA ORDER ROCCO POTENZO TO

TAKE HIS VARIOUS OPERATIONS OUT OF ROSEMONT BECAUSE OF PUBLICITY

BEING AFFORDED TOWN. CONTACT MADE WITH KANE BECAUSE OF LARGE

:; FINANCIAL AND REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS IN THAT TOWN AND IT WAS

POINTED OUT THAT THESE WOULD LOSE VALUE IF PUBLICITY CONTINUED. 4

• INFORMANT ADVISED THAT POTENZO CONTACTED ROSEMONT MAYOR

SEPTEMBER 28 LAST AND ADVISED THAT " THE CIGAR" TOLD HIM TO

GET OUT OF ROSEMONT. POTENZO CLAIMED TO MAYOR THAT HE HAD

BEEN OUT OF CHICAGO FOR SIX MONTHS AND WAS NOT AWARE OF THESE

POPERATIONS BUT INDICATED THAT HE WOULD CLEAR OUT IMMEDIATELY. L

55931

RECEIVED! 5:46 AM TRM

OCa

3

6/6/84

Anilla

REC- 56,

ACL: 1

92-3171

85 OCT 5

1964

61 OCT 8

SOFA

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32285761

Page 2

---

