# docid-32309709

## Page 1

(Released under the John T. Kennedy Assasik Asashaosyan Collection dot of 199Bale! USAfer Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10075

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

• PAGES:

09/01/1959

6

SUBJECTS :

NRO, EMP, MM, ASSOC, ACA, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

ADMIN PAGES INDICATE DOC CHANGED TO (SEE TITLE;

19.1

DocId: 32309709 Page_1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXX

The attached document has been transferred

to a different file since the original review by

the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) . *.

Both the 'CHANGE TO' sheet and the actual document

are being provided

under the JFK Act.

Old Number

New Number

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

DocId: 32309709

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

ĐF 1992 144

USC 2107

Note)

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

MARCES DIAz LANZ VOL HOF4

The document listed below was processed

see

reference for the above listed subject.

154-5297-217

CHANGE TO FORM DATER 7/36/86

XXXXXXXX •

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXX

DocId: 32309709

Page

---

## Page 4

Assassination Records Collet

134594

CHANGED. PER 66-04-4244

4.9080

DocId: 32309709

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

D$ DE35 (k$7.112-13056)

LON DENTIAI

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Via

Airtel

Date:

9/1/59

(Type in plain text or code).

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

las Spinace

TO:

_ FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (134-5991)

SAC, MIAMI (134-211)

MM 635-S

merides titan.

•ne Rothre

Re Mand airtel 7/31/59, to the Director. (X(V)

On the evening of 8/27/59, MM 635-S telephonically

advised that he had arrived in Miami that afternoon in company

with DOUGLAS LEFTBRIGHT and had registered at the Ocean View

Hotel, Miant beach, In company with LEFTBRIGHT, a Canadian

citizen who is a member of the Cuban Air Force. On the

following day, MM 635-S furnished'the following information

concerning his status. (AD(U)

Immediately after the defection of Major PEDRO LUIS ..

DIAZ LANZ as Chief of the Cuban Air Force, MM 635-S was arrested

and placed in jail as a prisoner of DIER on suspicion of being

a traitor but no charges were filed against him and he was

released on 7/10/59, upon intervention of JUAN NUIRY, a member

of the Federation of Students Union, who is a personal friend

Ist to

Y20:

/11/59 Approved:

MM 635-S said that he was removed from the Intelli-

gence Section of the. Cuban Air Force (FAR) along with his

immediate chief, GUERRA, but still retained his commission

as a lieutenant in the air force although he is now faced with (4

a reduction in rank.

MM 635-S said that DOUGLAS LEFTBRIGHT wash

/3 - Bureau (AM) (RM)

REC-24:

262-43322-21

2 - Miami

Ex-135

GED: gfg

(5)

,P.I

de cactio

25 SEP. 8

ка начинні

(4)

20

7211332

Crass

Marlastin

Sent

всьоглас

020R331

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32309709

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Beleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2102, Note):

DASE (Ihv112-13056).

Transmit the following in

Via

CONE

NTIAL

FB

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

• (114)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 134-211

largely responsible for effecting his release from

1 jail

having intervened with officials of the air force.

After his release MM 635-S was not given any

specific assignments and he felt that he was under close

observation and scrutiny. Consequently he exercised

considerable caution and refrained from attempting to con-

teterenced airtel on one occasion. (XU)

tact this office except through the manner set forth in

Finally about a week prior to 8/28/59, thröugh PEDRO

LAUDOR, assistant to the Chief of the Cuban National Police,

ALMEJEIRAS, the informant obtained a temporary position as a

special investigator and he was sent to Miami on a special

mission of several dáys as a test of his ability to perform.

He to instructed to investigate BEsTS frequentin ne

Biltmore Terrace Hotel, which is owned by ALBERTO/ARDURA,

former operator of the Tropicana night club in Havana. This

hotel is managed by NORMANXROTHMAN, who is under two separate

Federal indictments' at the presene time.

ARDURA is a close

associate of ROBERTO FERNANDEZ, brother-in-law of BATISTA.

Informant stated he is more of less on probation. CAN(U)

On 8/29/59, informant advised that he was departing

at Midnight for Havana and expected to return to Miami on the:

following Wednesday or Thursday. He expressed the belief that

he would be able to re-establish on a more permanent basis in

the Cuban National Revolutionary Police, and would be able to

-2 .

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Chee NFIDENT!!,

_ M

Per

DocId: 32309709 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 aote).

DA: 536 (1b+112-239167

CON DENTIAL

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(K)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 134-211

make frequent visits to Miami as it appeared he would

probably be given assignments to obtain information in

this area concerning enemies of the CASTRO regime. (NU)

MM 635-S is residing in Havana at 3111 68th

Street, Marianel, with his mother. X(U)

MM 635-S has furnished considerable information

which will be reported to the Bureau in connection with the

substantive cases involved. Appropriate recommendations

wall be subutted relative to continuance prior to 9/25/39 S8XC)

-3 -

(U)

Approved:

_M Рег

Special Agent in ChargE, CHOX

DocId: 32309709 Page 7

---

