# docid-32308223

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10081

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-2ND NR 46, 3RD NR 46

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-22-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DONAHOE, S. B.

TO:

BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/22/1960

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

IID, BURSTEN, LEONARD L., ASSOC, ALLEGED SCHEME, US,

EX-CUBAN DICTATOR BATISTA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32308223

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

FIVEWED BY ROTTS MASK MORON

NIN

116/98

RELAASH IN FULL

ON

seei

.. I

- Parsons

Deli

Ros

Bel

Don

Bratson

- Cotter

Ao fo Belmont

January 22, 1960

RELEASE IN PARI

TOTAL

§. Do Donahoe

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEONARD L. BUNSEEN,

et al.

INTERNAL SUCURITY i CUBA

BRIBERY

HERCIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /1-15-94 BY SP8 MIRC/MSK

(JFK)

FRAUD AGAONST IHE GOVERNINT - CONPLICI OF INTEREST

matter.

reference my memoranäum 1/0/60 setting out highlights of this

in summary, allegation has been received from Miami source

(Alfred Manheim, Miami erns dealer) concerning alleged scheme to secure

entry into U. 5. forex-Cuban: dictator Batista. for sun of $150, 000 to

be split between Congressman Abraham Multer of New York, Leonara Bursten,

Miami Beach attorney, and tuo batlete adherento in Miant, Orlando Piedra

ord: Eduardo Hernandes.

Department has previously advised that this

matter involves possible violatione of vorious bribery statutes.

State Department, which previoualy indicated its intention to discuss

case with White House, advised on 1/6/60 that it will not leaue visa

to Batista in any case. Based on thie aduice, we instructed Miami

on 1/7/60 to interview Bursten, Preara jane Hernandez.

We had previously

been holding active investigation in abeyance pending some taication

scheme was being put into effeot.

By téletype 1/21/60 Miant has furnished following additional

data received from Minheim original source.

On 1/5/60 Búrsten

told Manheim he would be attending coontall party in Washingtong D. Coo

with Congressman Wulter on 1/5 or 6/00, no other details crailable.

On 1/18/00 Hernandez advised source he hao reverved reply from Batista

to effect he appreciated offer but did not desire to testify before

Congress et this time (soheme involved having Batista subpoenaed to

appear before Congressional Committee.

Source learned on 1/16/60

from another source that Hernandes and Piedra are

now seeking

to

eliminate otner intermediartes and obtain connission from Batista

entirely for thenselves.

Manheim noted in this regard that Hernandea

has recently become evasive with him.

Miami teletype 1/21/60 further noted that check of long-distance

toll calls charged to Bursten'e office showshe was in contuct with

onulter on jour occasions in Votober and November, 1959g that he placed

incalls to Davidson,

Parsons

Mashington, D. C., on numerous occasions between

Selmont

alic losure

le Loach"

612995-83419

в 8-7423

(Davidson)

62-70441 (Batisto)

•C. Sullivan -

210 28 1960

indy -

(12)

MAlI ROOM,

TELETYPE UNIT

- 67-65976 (Webb)

- 1 - 134-5296 (Manheim) |2 - 1423--

NOT RACORDED.

176 JAN 27 1960

NW 54027 DooId: 32308223

Page 2

---

## Page 3

uses

KJFK TASA FORCE

REVIBWED B!

Memorandun Donahoe

to

Belmont

Bet

LEONARD L. BUNSFEN,

et alo

105-83419

ON 7/23/97

IX RELEASE IN FOLI

D RELBASE DI PART

D TOTAL DENIAL

11/25 and 12/28/59; and that he placed numerous calls to lom WeDD

of washingtong

Cos from 10/12 to 12/20/59. Davidson is apparently

identreal wich arving Daviason, registered Micaraguan agent who, hos

been mixed up with Latin-amertoon and Cuban notters for some time

and who is troun to be a contact of former Special Agent thomas D. Webb.

Davidson has been interviewed by bureau on e number of occasions and

has volunteerc infernation concerning latin-mericon affairs

In faot,

on 12/16/59 he advised mo that

he has heard tair of plon to get

cariato unto: U. so for a price by arronging for nim to tesciry defore

Congressional Committee. He declined to furnish further details.

is apparently identical wier former special Agent Thomas Daugherty Webb, Jr.,

now vice president of recon Corporation ouned by Clint Murchison,

wealthy and priminent texas oil man.

Webb served as Bureau clerk

from 1935 to 1939 and had two tours of duty as a Spectal agent from

1939 to 2946 and from 1948 to 195% His services were satisfactory and

he left Bureau on very cordial: terms.

Miami has expressed beltef

interviewo of bursten, Piedro and Hernandes now will expose Manheim

and destroy his future volue:

Mion? recommends consideration be given

to interviewing Webt.

0060

PAOLOMIS

Manheim, former informant for V. S. Customs in Miami, hos

occasionally volunteered information to our liant Office concerning

Latin-American matters during recent yeare.

However, he has never

been considered informant or regular confidential source of Bureau and

his

reitability ts considered doubtful.

In view of serious allegations

in this matter involving alleged bribe to a Congressman,

in view of

Department's opinion thet thie matter may involve uiolations of

various bribery statutes and in uten of possible white House interest,

it is belteved we should press to resolve this matter as soon as possible.

It ve not felt we scould derer investigation simply on groundo of

possible: compromising of Manheim, whos not on established source,

and especially since it appears.intervieus. requested by Bureau could

be conducted without jeopardizing Manheim.

In latter connection,

it is pointed out this coheme is hnoum to a nunber of individuals and

could have been reported to Bureau from any one of a dozen different

sources.

In view of Manhetm's comments indtcating Hernandes and Pledra

are secking to eliminate other intermedtaries and inaloating Hernandez

may be withholding information from nim, tt is not likely we would ever

resolve this situation if we were to rely entirely on information whieh

may be received by Wannett

It 1a felt we should immediately have Miami conduet interuiews

of Burstens Pledro and Hernandes, as previously requested, and-that

2

74 54027

DocId: 323

123

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Dos

REVISWED EY 231/S0% TASE FORO

ON 1/6/98 N5N/25A

RALBASE IN DULL

- Fars07s

Deloach

- 2

Rosen

Belmont

- Donahoe

-1 - Liaison

lotter

A. H. Belmont

January 22, 1960

RELEASE IT PART

TOLAI, DEINTAI

D.

D

So Bo Donahoe

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

LEONARD L BURSTEN..

et als

DATE/1-15-94BYSAS 0nAC/1SK

2N2 LVAS

SECURITY - CUBA

JFK)

BRIBERY

FRAUD

AGAINST THE GOVURAMENE - CONNICE OF INTEREST

Be my memorandun 1/6/60 setting out highlights in this case.

Alregation. was reccived.grom Afred wanneins ramb arms acater re

alleged scheme to secure J. s. entry for ex-Cuban diotator Batista for

sun of $150.000 to be split between Congressman Multer of New Fork,

an attorney, and two Batista followers in Miant.

Department

state Department, which planned

to discuss matter with White House, aduised 1/0/60 that Batista would

not be issued visa and on 1/7/60 we instruoted iiami to interview Bursten

and two Batista followers in Miami, Orlando Piedra and Eduardo Hernandes®

Miami has now furnished additional information received from

Monheim indicating Batista has turned down proposition and that

Hernandes and Fisara may be seeking to eliminate others involvea to

obtain commission entirely for themselves. liant inquirtes have revealed

Bursten has been in frequent touch with Irving Davidson, Nicaraguen agent,

and former special Agent (SA) Tom Webb, wno ls connected with Clint

Murchison enterprise at Washington, D.

Co. Miami recommends against

interviewe of Bursten, Hernandes and Ptedra on grounds of possibly

jeopardising Manheim.

Manheim has volunteered information to Mian concerning Cuban

matters

In past but hos never been informent or regular source and his

reliability hos been doubtful.

In view of serlous charges involved,

moseille bribery violations pointed out by Department and possible White

House intereste

it. is felt we should press to resolve matter as soon as

possible. It ls not believed ve would jeoparate Manheim through

interviews of others since this scheme la known to a number of individuals

nd could have been reported by various sources.

A detoiled menorandum setting out faots in this matter is

ront tached.

Helmon

Calp 95 83419

Marine

Mci

- 2-1423

(Davidson

- 62-20441 (Batista)

"Tonin

lrotte

Tell 12.

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

12=142

NOT RACORDED

176 JAN 2 1960

-1 - 67-65976 (Webb)

1 - 134-5296

(Manheim)

TELETYPE UNIT

NH 54027

23

Page 4

---

