# docid-32177298

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

12/6/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10188-10382

RECORD SERIES:

NK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-57235-1 THRU 15

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55509 Date:

12-07-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

0

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/01/1994

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

H# 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NRO7S WA CODE

10:23 PM NITEL 12-9-75 VLN

TO ALL SACS

ARON DERESTOP (1ag196e70) pee attached

MARTIN LUTHER KING

JR., BUDED: DECEIBER 18, 1975.

FOR INFORMATION OF ALL OFFICES, IHE DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE

• HAS INITIATED AN EXCENSIVE REVIEW EFFORT "TO LOOK AT ALL

ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE FBI WITH RESPECI TO MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JP.." IT HAS 'INSTRUCTED BUREAU MAKE AVAILABLE FOR.

DEPARIMENTAL REVIEW ALL MATERIALS CONCERNING KING, HIS FAMILY,

RELATIVES, FRIENDS AND ASSOCIATES, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SOLC) CORGANIZATION WHICH WAS HEADED UP

BY KING), AS WELL. AS THE FILE RELATING TO THE ASSASSINATION OF

KING. ("ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; CIVIL RIGHTS, "

CODE NAME MURKIN, BUREAU FILE 44-33361. MATERIAL TO BE MADE

AVAILABLE TO INCLUDE, BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO, ALL COINTELPRO

PROPOSALS, ACTIONS AND RESULTS OF ACTIONS; AND ALL REQUESTS,

APPROVALS AND RESULTS, INCLUDING TAPES, TRANSCRIPTS AND

LOGS, OF ELECTRONIC SURVETLLANCES, WHETHER WIRETAP, MICROPHONE

OR OTHERWISE.

10005/1225

SERIALIZED.

DECO

1975

Плевен

FBI - NEWARK

AH 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

AS AN EARLY STEP IN THE DEPARIMENTAL REVIEW, IT HAS

ASKED FOR AN INVENTORY OF ALL MATERIALS AVAILBLE BOTH AT

HEADQUARTERS AND IN ALL FIELD OFFICES. THE PURPOSE OF THIS

TELETYPE IS TO SOLICIT THE NECESSARY FIELD INVENTORIES.

PRELIMINARY DISCUSSIONS WITH THE DEPARIMENI HAS NARROWED

THE REQUEST AS TO "FAMILY, RELATIVIS" IO INCLUDE ONLY

IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AS TO "FRIENDS AND ASSOCIATES," DEPARIMENT

HAS ADVISED THAT AS THE REVIEW PROGRESSES, IT WILL DESIGNATE

IHE SPECIFIC INDIVIDUALS IT IS INTERESIED IN FOR REVIEW OF

MATERIALS. THE FIRST SUCH INDIVIDUAL ALREADY DESIGNATED

BY THE DEPARIMENT IS STANLEY DAVID LEVISON, BUFILE 100-392452.

WHILE DEPARTMENT IS APPARENTLY CONSIDERING FILE REVIEWS IN

THE FIELD; ALL THAT IS IMMEDIATELY DESIRED ARE FIELD

INVENTORIES RELATING TO PERTINENT MAIN FILES ONLY..

FOLLOWING ARE INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF INVENTORIES

BY ALL FIELD OFFICES:

•FILES TO BE INCLUDED ARE:

1. MURKIN - BUFILE 44-38361.

20

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - BUFILE 100-106670.

3. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS (EXCLUDING CHILDREN.

WIFE, CORETTA KING.

AH 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE

B. FATHER, MARTIN LUTHER KING, SP.

GO MOTHER, (DECEASED) ALBERIA WILLIAMS KING.

D. BROTHER, (DECEASED) ALFRED DANIEL WILLIAMS KING;

MOST COMMONLY USED NAME A. D. KING.

E. SISTER, CHRISTINE KING FARRIS, AKA MRS. ISAAC FARRIS.

OF INDIVIDUALS LISTED UNDER 2 AND 3 ABOVE, PRINCIPAL BUFILE

NUMBER ONLY FOR KING, JP.., IS LISTED. THERE ARE NUMEROUS OTHER

MAIN FILES ON KING, JR., AND IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS, MANY WITH

THE INDIVIDUAL LISTED AS THE VICTIM RATHER THAN SUBJECT SUCH AS

9- AND 44- CASES. INSURE FIELD INVENTORY INCLUDES ALL MAIN

FILES ON THESE INDIVIDUALS.

L4. COMINFIL OF SCLO - BUFILE 108-438794.

< 5. 'COMMUNISI INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS (CIRM)

BUFILE 100-442529.

: 6 CPUSA-NEGRO QUESTION, - BUFILE 100-3-115.

7. STANLEY DAVID LEVISON - BUFILE 100-392452.

IN PREPARING FIELD OFFICE INVENTORIES

FOR ALL MAIN

FILES. RELATING TO ABOVE, THE FOLLOWING SPECIFIC ITEMS MUST

IN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FOUR

BE INCLUDED: (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER, INCLUDING OFFICE

PREFIX: (B) TITLE AND CHARACTER OF FILE; (C) VERY BRISF

DESCRIPTIONS OF FILE CONTENTS, INCLUDING WHETHER IT, CONTAINS

ANY JAPES, ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS AND/OR TRANSCRIPTS,

PHOTOGRAPHS, BULKY EXHIBITS AND ANY OTHER SIMILAR MATERIAL

WHICH IS IN ADDITION TO ROUTINE CORRESPONDENCE. IF ANY OF

THE ABOVE (TAPES, EIC.) IS NOTED, VERY BRIEFLY DESCRIBE.

INCLUDE, STATEMENT DESCRIBING ALL SUBFILES RELATING TO

THE

MAIN FILE; (D) ACCOUNT. FOR SIZE/SCOPE OF FILE AND RELATED

MATTERS.. FOR EXAMPLE, INDICATE NUMBERS OF SECTIONS AND

SERIALS IN FILE; VOLUME OF LOGS/TRANSCRIPIS AND BULKY EXHIBITS; ETC.

CONFINE INVENTORY AT THIS TIME TO MAIN FILES ONLY AND

DO NOT INCLUDE FILE REFERENCES.

FOLLOW OUTLINE AS ABOVE WITH APPROPRIATE HEADINGS.

PREPARATION OF INVENTORY MUST BE UNDERTAKEN IMMEDIATELY

AND GIVEN HIGHEST PRIORITY. REPLIES TO BE SUBMITTED BY NITEL

NO LATER THAN DECEMBER 12, 1975, USING. CAPTION AS ABOVE

(NO CHARACIER IO BE-USED), ATTENTION: INTD. IMPERATIVE

DEADLINE BE MET

AS ATTORNEY GENERAL, HAS ASSIGNED PROJECT

DEPARIMENT'S HIGHEST PRIORITY:

END

AH 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Indicer Seorch Slip

i ND-160 (Rev. 3-23-71)

TO: CHIEF CLERK

Subject

MURKIN

Allases

Address

Exact Spelling

All References

Main Subversive Case Files Only.

1 Subversive References

Only

File & Serial Number

44-8548

Date

Social Security Account #

Birth Date

Birthplace

Race

Sex

• Male

• Female

Remark s

Main Criminal Case Files Only

Criminal References Only

Main Subversive (If no Main, list all Subversive References)

Main Criminal (If no Main, liat all Criminal References)

File & Serial Number

Restrict to Locallty of

Remarks

Requested by

Searched by

Consolidated by

Reviewed by

Squad

Extension

File No.

Identical

Ni : Not identical

(date)

(date)

(date)

File Review Symbols

Not identifiable

Ủ: Noadelaila reference

#G.P.O. 1972-471-961

AH 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 6

---

## Page 7

KING, MARTIN LUTH (REV.)

Scheduied soosen at Hackensack, a, .

1/14/63

7/52 157-1204.

KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR.

7/64

.....

44-472*

UNSUBS: Martin Luther King, Jr.; ET AL -Victims

KING, MARTIN LUTHER, JR. 4/68

157-2525%

RACIAL DISTURBANCES FOLLOWENG

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTAER

KING, JR.

====

KING, MARTIN LUTHER

4/68

157-2514%

DENONSTRATION RESULTING

FROM ASSAUSINATION OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING

HW 55509 DocId: 32177298 Page 7

---

## Page 8

KING, MARTIN LUTHER

No Ident Daia

Ri.l

8/61

157-603-47

life if

KING, MARTIN LUTHER (JR)

no ident data

4/60-157-0-66

KING, MARTIN LUTHER (JR) (REY)

5/60

157-27-10

ino ident cata

KING, MARTIN LUTHERJR. (DR.) 9167 100-49593-37

Chairman of the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference

H₩ 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 8

---

## Page 9

KING, MARTIN LUTHER .R.

+166 100-47817-29-14

President of SCLC.

DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING CIVIC LEAGUE

7/68

157-2383-8

KING, DR. MARTIN LUTHER COMMUNITY 157-1836-646

CENTER 3/69

no ident data

T.

SING, "ARTIN INTHR

JP.. LABOR CUNTYR

11-73

105-31286

UNST?: Bonhin- of Nartin Luther King, Jr.

Labor Center 310 hest 13rd St. 1V0 7-24-73

HH 55509 DocId: 32177298 Page 9

---

## Page 10

KING, MARTIN LUIHIR,

LABOR CENTER

JR. 9/73

-

174-2030%

Bombing of Martin Luthe King, Jr.,

New York Cityk 7/24/73.

"abor Centers

KING, MARTIN LUTHER REV.

3/56

100-41635-1

11/56

100-42069-35

11/56

100-0R-0493

11/58

62-2500D-29 p3

President of Montgomery Improvement Assn.

One of the leaders of the bus

boycott in Montgomery, Ala. ('56)

HW 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SPEECH SCHED LUTHER

MANEN EUESER REV. 4-63 157-23673

APRIL 26, 1963, CAMDE

KING, MARIIN LUTHER

no identi data

8/63

100-47520*

KING, MARCIN LUTHER

5/54

Plot to assassinate Martin

Luther King, and Jack Greenberg,

Autorney, NAACP,

Mobile, Ala.

5/17/64

157-755

KING,

KATHY LUENT CY 100 5275-1 4510-25

(Rev. )

407 Auburn Avenue

(Pres.

Arent doristian

Leadership Conference)

HW 55509 DocId: 32177298 Page 11

---

## Page 12

KING, MART'IN

74 Spring Streot

Paterson, i?Jo

97-82-1014

2/51

80-0-19988

=19988-0

00:K

KING, MARTIN

272 Fourth St., NY

6/591

65-5076-22

KING, MARTIN

4/62:

80-751-2

no positive ident data

eled,

KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR.

MURK IN

4-08

44-354*

Ach files

scheck your

KING, MARIT LUTHER (JR) (DR) 4/08 44-852-2114-3

HH 55509 DooId: 32177298

Page 12

---

## Page 13

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP 10/63 100-47609*

CONFERENCE

Cominfil

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP 6/72

157-5558-741

CONFERENCE

NO IDENT DATA.

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIY CONFERENCE

4/71

100-53453-1-5

NO IDENT DATA

SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP 4/71 157-5388#

CONFERENCE

Southern Christian Leadership Confernnce

Demonstration, Princeton-Trenton, Bew

Jersey, April

20-21, 1971.

NW 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 13

chete pere come nel thr

---

## Page 14

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

007

FBI

Date: 12/12/75

Transmit the following in

CODE

Via

TELETYPE

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

TO

DIRECIOR, FBI (100-LOSAEOITE KENA TADTO BY

575

FROM NEWARK (100-57235)

REASON FOR EX: REOISA

1 0C28

04Z8 02 MINA 702 22066330510M/21

ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

RE: BUREAU TELETYPE TO NEWARK DATED DECEMBER 9, 1975.

PER BUREAU INSTRUCTION, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS SET

FORTH:

I. MURKIN - BUREAU FILE 44-38861

A. FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER, NEWARK 44-854

B. TITLE AND CHARACTER - MURKIN - CR

C. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK'S INVESTIGATION OPENED APRIL 7, 1968, UPON RECEIPT OF

BUREAU TELETYPE TO INITIATE A CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATION TO

IDENTIFY PERSON OR PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. IN MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, ON APRIL 4, 1968.

FILE CONTAINS ALL LEADS COVERED IN THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY,

INVESTIGATIONS COVERED BY OTHER FIELD DIVISIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS

SETTING FORTH BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS. FILE CONTAINS A SUB A SECTION

CONTAINING FORTY-THREE (43) EXHIBITS, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

JAT/SpI

(1)

199-572351

2

Sent

_ M

Per.

RG

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-419-135

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 14

---

## Page 15

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE TWO NK 100-57235

1. LIST OF CITY DIRECTORIES CHECKED.

2. TWO (2) COPIES OF ANONYMOUS LETTER INDICATING GEORGE

WALLACE, BURLINGTON, NEW JERSEY, RESPONSIBLE FOR KILLING OF KING.

3. PHOTO OF SUSPECT'S CLOTHING AND LAUNDRY TAG.

4. LIST OF LAUNDRY AND CLEANING ESTABLISHMENTS.

5. SPECIAL AGENTS WORK SHETTS AND NOTES REGARDING FINANCIAL

INSTITUTIONS.

6. INDEX CARDS OF LAUNDRY ESTABLISHMENTS.

7. PHOTOS OF T-SHIRTS AND SHORTS.

8. LIST OF LAUNDRIES IN NEW JERSEY, NEW YORK, AND

CONNECTICUT.

9. LOCKSMITHING INSTITUTE RECORDS.

10. COPIES OF ARTIST'S CONCEPTION OF UNKNOWN SUBJECT.

11. XEROX COPIES OF SAVINGS ACCOUNT CARDS AND SERIAL

NUMBERS USED TO OPEN ACCOUNT FIRST NATIONAL BANK, NEWARK.

12. RECORDED FILM FROM BANK OF BLOOMFIELD, BLOOMFIELD, NEW

JERSEY, RETURNED.

13. RECORDED FILM FROM BANK OF BLOOMFIELD, BLOOMFIELD, NEW

JERSEY, RETURNED.

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M Per -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 15

---

## Page 16

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FB1

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE THREE NK 100-57232

14.

SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES REGARDING MURKIN.

15. WANTED FLYER NUMBER 442.

16. PHOTOS OF JAMES EARL RAY.

17. WANTED. FLYER 442-A.

18. PHOTOS OF JAMES EARL RAY AND WALTER T. RIFE.

19. PHOTOS OF ERIC STARVO GALT.

20. COPIES OF UNITED STATES POSTAL MONEY ORDERS SIGNED

BY ERIC GALT.

21. SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES REGARDING CONTACTS

WITH DANCE STUDIOS.

22. COPY OF CANADIAN POSTAL MONEY ORDER, PURCHASER ERICK GALI.

23. COPY OF LETTER DATED APRIL 22, 1968, BY JERRY RAY TO

MARJORIE FETTUR.

24. PHOTOS OF JAMES EARL RAY.

25. PHOTOS OF RAY TAKEN FALL OF 1967.

26. ROLLS OF MICROFILM CONTAIN PHOTOS OF BANK OF AMERICA

MONEY ORDER, RETURNED TO BANK MAY 2, 1968.

27. PHOTOS OF JERRY RAY.

28. SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES.

Approved:

-

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_ M

Per

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

NN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE FOUR NK 100-57232

29. SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES REGARDING CONTACTS WITH

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, CREDIT CHECKS, CRIMINAL CHECKS, AND

SURVEY OF ELECTION BOARDS.

30. SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES REGARDING LAUNDRIES

CONTACTED.

31. SPECIAL AGENT INVESTIGATIVE NOTES REGARDING DANCING

SCHOOLS.

32. ELIMINATION PRINTS OF JOHN D. MARTIN, JR.

33. PHOTO OF JAMES EARL RAY.

34. PHOTO OF JAMES EARL RAY.

35. PHOTOS OF LAUNDRY MARKS.

36. LETTERS FROM JERRY RAY TO MARJORIE FETTERS.

37. LETTER DATED MAY 15, 1968, FROM MARJORIE FETTERS.

38. LETTERS FROM RAY TO MARJORIE FETTERS.

39. FORTY-ONE (41) DOCUMENTS FROM APPLICANT TO LOCKSMITHING

INSTITUTE.

40. SUBSCRIPTION FORM FROM "SELECT MAGAZINE" FILLED OUT BY

JAMES E. RAY.

41. PHOTOS OF UNDERCLOTHES.

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

M Per -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

HN 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 17

---

## Page 18

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE FIVE NK 100-57232

42. SPECIAL DELIVERY ENVELOPE CONTAINING FOUR (4) PAGE

NEWSLETTER HEADED, "THE ROYAL BANK OF CANADA MONTHLY LETTER"

FROM MARJORIE FETTERS.

43. PHOTOSTAT COPIES OF BELL TELEPHONE FORM A-U.

NEWARK INVESTIGATION CLOSED MAY 14, 1969.

D. SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK'S FILE CONSISTED OF SEVEN (7) VOLUMES CONTAINING

524 SERIALS AND HAS A SUB A SECTION CONSISTING OF FORTY-THREE (43)

EXHIBITS IN THREE (3) SECTIONS. FILE CONTAINS NO LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS,

TAPES, OR ELECTRONICAL SURVEILLANCE LOGS.

II. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., BUREAU FILE 100-106670

A. (A)FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 100-47520

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - REVEREND MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR. - SM - C

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK'S INVESTIGATION OPENED AUGUST 14, 1963, UPON RECEIPT OF

NEW YORK DIVISION COMMUNICATION THAT KING MIGHT BE INVOLVED WITH

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA (CUSA). FILE INCLUDED COVERAGE OF KING'S .

TRAVELS, ASSOCIATES, NEWSPAPER ARTICLE, SPEECHES, AND PROTEST

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

-M Per -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298 Page 18

---

## Page 19

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE SIX NK 100-57232

AGAINST KING IN THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY. FILE CONTAINS TWO (2)

EXHIBITS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

1. DUN AND BRADSTREET REPORT OF PHARMACO, INC., KENILWORTH,

NEW JERSEY.

2. XEROX OF A THROWAWAY TITLED, "MARTIN LUTHER KING AT

COMMUNIST TRAINING SCHOOL." CASE HAS FOUR (4) SUB SECTIONS

DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

(1) 100-47520 - SUB ONE CONTAINS COPY OF HANDWRITTEN

LOGS MAINTAINED BY SPECIAL AGENT JOHN J. CONNOLLY AND FORMER

SPECIAL AGENT JOHN PATRICK DEVLIN REGARDING COVERAGE OF

ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE AT ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, DURING

AUGUST, 1964. ORIGINAL FILE SENT IO THE BUREAU JANUARY 26, 1975.

(2) 100-47520 - SUB TWO CONTAINS INFORMATION REGARDING

BUREAU AND. FIELD TELEPHONE CALLS REGARDING ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE

ON KING AT DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION, ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY,

AUGUST, 1964.

(3) 100-47520 - SUB III CONTAINS INFORMATION OF KING'S

ARRIVAL, ACTIVITIES, AND DEPARTURE FROM THE DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION,

ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, AUGUST, 1964.

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

- M Per -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 19

---

## Page 20

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE SEVEN NK 100-57232

(4) 100-47520 - SUB IV CONTAINS INFORMATION BY FORMER

SPECIAL AGENT ALMA A. RICHARDSON REGARDING INQUIRY BY "WASHINGTON

POST" REPORTER RON KESSLER REGARDING ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OF

KING AT ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, 1964.

D. SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF TWO (2) VOLUMES CONTAINING 196 SERIALS,

HAS A SUB 1-A SECTION CONSISTING OF TWO (2) EXHIBITS, AND FOUR (4)

SUB FILES. SUB I HAS TWO (2) SERIALS AND CONTAINS ELECTRONIC

SURVEILLANCE LOGS. SUB II HAS THREE (3) SERIALS. SUB III HAS

TWO (2) SERIALS AND SUB IV HAS ONE (1) SERIAL. FILE HAS NO TAPES.

B. (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 157-1554

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER -

PLOT TO ASSASSINATE MARTIN LUTHER KING AND JACK

GREENBERG, ATTORNEY, NAACP, MOBILE, ALABAMA, MAY 17, 1964; RM

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK FILE OPENED MAY 1, 1964, UPON RECEIPT OF INFORMATION FROM

THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE OF A PLOT TO ASSASSINATE KING AND GREENBERG.

NEWARK DISSEMINATED INFORMATION TO DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY,

ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, WHERE KING HAD RESERVATION AT THE

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M Per

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 20

---

## Page 21

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

• Date:

Transmit the following in

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE EIGHT NK 100-57232

MARLBOROUGH-BLEINHEIM MOTEL, ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY. NO ACTIVE

INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED BY NEWARK DIVISION AND CASE CLOSED

JUNE 6, 1964.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF THIRTEEN (13) SERIALS. FILE CONTAINS NO

TAPES, ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS, TRANSCRIPS, PHOTOS, OR

BULKY EXHIBITS.

C. (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 44-472

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - UNSUB; MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.;

ET AL - VICTIMS; CR

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENTS -

ALL SERIALS DESTROYED PER MANUAL OF RULES AND REGULATIONS,

NOVEMBER, 1974, EXCEPT AN ED-302 SETTING FORTH THE RESULTS OF

AN INTERVIEW WITH VICTOR H. GURCZYNSKI.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF ONE (1) SERIAL. FILE CONTAINS NO

TAPES, ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, PHOTOS, OR

BULKY EXHIBITS.

D. (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 157-1167

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M

Per _

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 21

---

## Page 22

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE NINE NK 100-57232

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - REVEREND MARTIN LUTHER KING,

SPEECH SCHEDULED FOR APRIL 26, 1963, AT CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY; RM

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENTS -

NEWARK CASE OPENED APRIL 25, 1963, UPON RECEIPT OF SOURCE INFOR-

MATION THAT KING WAS TO GIVE A SPEECH AT THE CONVENTION HALL,

CAMDEN, NEW JERSEY. INFORMATION DISSEMINATED TO CAMDEN, NEW

JERSEY POLICE DEPARTMENT. FILE CONTAINS NEWSPAPER ARTICLE AND

SOURCE COVERAGE OF SPEECH GIVEN BY A.D. KING, SUBSTITUTING FOR

HIS BROTHER. FILE HAS ONE EXHIBIT CONTAINING THE PROGRAM OF

SPEAKERS AT CONVENTION HALL. CASE CLOSED JUNE 28, 1963.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF NINE (9) SERIALS WITH A SUB A SECTION

CONTAINING ONE (1) BULKY EXHIBIT AND CONTAINS NO TAPES,

ELECTRONIC

SURVEILLANCE LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, OR PHOTOS.

E. (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 157-1204

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - REVEREND MARTIN LUTHER KING,

SCHEDULED SPEECH AT HACKENSACK, NEW JERSEY, JULY 14, 1963; RACIAL

MATTERS

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENTS -

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M Per _

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H₩ 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 22

---

## Page 23

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in -

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE TEN NK 100-57232

NEWARK CASE OPENED JULY 6, 1963, UPON RECEIPT OF INFORMATION

THAT KING WAS TO ADDRESS A RALLY IN HACKENSACK, NEW JERSEY.

FILE CONTAINS COVERAGE OF RALLY, DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION

KING DID NOT APPEAR. CASE CLOSED JULY 16, 1963.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF FIVE (5) SERIALS AND CONTAINS NO TAPES,

ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, PHOTOS, OR BULKY

EXHIBITS.

III. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS

A. WIFE - CORETTA KING - NO NEWARK FILE.

B. FATHER, MARTIN LUTHER KING, SR. - NO NEWARK FILE

C. MOTHER, ALBERTA WILLIAMS KING - NO NEWARK FILE.

D. BROTHER, ALFRED DANIEL WILLIAMS KING, ALSO KNOWN

AS (AKA), A.D. KING - NO NEWARK FILE

E. SISTER, CHRISTINE KING FARRIS, AKA, MRS. ISAAC

FARRIS - NO NEWARK FILE

IV. COMINFIL OF SCLC - BUREAU FILE 100-438794

A. (A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 100-47609 .

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - COMINFIL; SOUTHERN

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M Per.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 23

---

## Page 24

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE ELEVEN NK 100-57232

CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC); INTERNAL SECURITY - C

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK CASE OPENED OCTOBER 18, 1963, UPON RECEIPT OF A COMMUNICA-

TION FROM THE ATLANTA DIVISION REQUESTING A CHECK FOR SECURITY

INFORMATION REGARDING OFFICERS AND STAFF OF SCLC. FILE

CONTAINS NEWSPAPER CLIPPING, COVERAGE OF MEETINGS, CONFERENCES,

SOURCE AND INFORMANT INFORMATION. POLICE INQUIRIES, COVERAGE

OF ASSOCIATES, APPEARANCES OF SCLC MEMBERS, COVERAGE OF POSSIBLE

DEMONSTRATIONS AND DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION TO OTHER FIELD

DIVISIONS. CASE CLOSED OCTOBER 21, 1972.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF FOUR (4) VOLUMES CONTAINING 176 SERIALS

HAS NO BULKY EXHIBIT LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, TAPES, OR SURVEILLANCE

LOGS.

V. COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS (CIRM) -

BUREAU FILE - 100-442529

(A) FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 100-48052

(B) TITLE AND CHARACTER - COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN

RACIAL MATTERS; INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Approved:

-

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

. M

Per

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

HH 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 24

---

## Page 25

FD-36

(Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE TWELVE NK 100-57232

(C) BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK FILE OPENED AUGUST 31, 1964, UPON RECEIPT OF BUREAU

COMMUNICATION TO DETERMINE COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OR INFLUENCE

IN THE RACIAL MOVEMENT. FILE CONTAINS COVERAGE OF MEETING,

SOURCE AND INFORMANT INFORMATION, SPEECHES, INQUIRIES OF

INDIVIDUALS WITH POLICE DEPARTMENTS, COVERAGE OF DEMONSTRATION,

TRAVEL PLANS OF INDIVIDUALS, DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION TO

BUREAU AND OTHER FIELD DIVISIONS, AND PROGRESS REPORTS OF

INFORMATION GATHERED. CASE CLOSED JULY 18, 1973.

(D) SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF FOUR (4) VOLUMES CONTAINING 400 SERIALS,

HAS NO BULKY EXHIBIT LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, TAPES, OR ELECTRONIC

SURVEILLANCE LOGS.

VI. CPUSA - NEGRO QUESTION - BUREAU FILE 100-3-116

A. FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 100-4284TT

B. TITLE AND CHARACTER - COMMUNIST PARTY, USA, NEGRO

QUESTION, COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL MATTERS; INTERNAL

SECURITY - C

C. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M

Per

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

H# 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 25

---

## Page 26

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

PAGE THIRTEEN NK 100-57232

NEWARK FILE OPENED JULY 19, 1963, UPON RECEIPT OF BUREAU

COMMUNICATION REQUESTING INFORMATION REGARDING THE SUPPORT OF,

AND PARTICIPATION OF COMMUNISTS IN CIVIL RIGHTS MATTERS. FILE

CONTAINS COVERAGE OF CIVIL RIGHTS GROUPS, ALLEGED MEMBERS OF THE

CPUSA, AND FRONT ORGANIZATIONS. FILE WAS MAINTAINED AS A CONTROL

FILE TO MONITOR COMMUNIST INVOLVEMENT WITH THE NEGRO CIVIL RIGHTS

MOVEMENT, LAST COMMUNICATION DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 1964. FILE

CONTAINS ONE (1) EXHIBIT CONTAINING A PHOTO OF

TER ACt 6 13+

D. SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF THREE (3) VOLUMES CONTAINING 221 SERIALS

AND HAS A SUB A SECTION WITH ONE (1) EXHIBIT. FILE CONTAINS

NO LOGS; TRANSCRIPTS, TAPES, OR ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS.

VII. STANLEY DAVID LEVISON - BUREAU FILE 100-392452

CONFIDENTIAL A. FIELD OFFICE FILE NUMBER - NEWARK 100-36987

B. TITLE AND CHARACTER - STANLEY DAVID LEVISON;

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

C. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FILE CONTENT -

NEWARK CASE OPENED AS A DEAD FILE AUGUST 26, 1952, UPON RECEIPT

OF BACKGROUND INFORMATION FROM THE NEW YORK DIVISION. CASE

Approved:

€- Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M

Per

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING gEFICE: 1971-413-135

NN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 26

---

## Page 27

Notification

of Document Classification Action

4-724 (Rev. 2-16-79)

This form is:

Top Secret

Secret

TO: SAC:

Albany

Houston

Albuquerque

Indianapolis

Alexandria

Jack son

Anchorage

Jacksonville

ALlanta

Baltimore

Kansas City

Knoxville

Birmingham

Las Vegas

Boston

Little Rock

Buffalo

Los Angeles

Butte

Louisville

Charlotte

Memphis

Chicago

Miami

Cincinnati

Milwaukee

Cleveland

Minneapolis

Columbia

Dallas

Mobile

Newark

Denver

Detroit

New Traven

New Orleans

J El Paso

New York City

Honolulu

Norfolk

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San

Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

Tamp a

Washington Field

Quantico

SAC, New Rochelle (MRA)

7 SAC, Brooklyn-Queens (MKA)

RE:

noiter Luther Keng, fr.

Confidential X Unclassified

TO LEGAT:

Bern

Bonn

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

London

Manila

Mexico City

Ottawa

Paris

Rome

Tokyo

Counting of Paragraphs:

Reference-counted as first para.; last para. on

page continued to next page counted on first

page only; page beginning with continued para. -

first full para. counted as para, one; para, fol-

lowed by (:)-material thereafter counted as part

of original para, or referred to as "line -

";

info. not in para. form identified as "line

or subject matter.

Bufile 100-166670-4010

Ur file 100-57235

If document has been destroyed or cannot be

located, reply with FBIHQ is unnecessary.

JUN 27 1980

Date

Re:

(Division

(Division

Report of SA

Letter

LHM

= Cover Communication:

Letter [Airtel [ Report cover pages

Airtel

7 Memo

X Teletype

Other

To:

Dated 12-12-25

1 Classification retained (see below)

Declassified by -

* Classified

Upgraded

_on

To:

Top Secret

Secret

X Confidential

Classified and extended by

Reason for extension

FCIM, II, 1-2.4.2. _

6-26-80

To:

] Classification retained (see below)

Declassified by

] Classified

Upgraded

To:

_ Down graded

Classified and extended by

Reason for extension

J 3 FCIM, II, 1-2.4.2.

Date of review

_ Dated

_ on

[ Top Secret

I Secret

• Confidential

o for declassification

12-12-95

The above indicated changes in classification have been made at FBIHQ. You are requested to make the changes indicated on

your referenced communication(s) and all other file copies in your division. Advise local agencies previously receiving copies of

communication(s) of changels). This routing slip can be destroyed after changes have been made.

Page

Paragraph

Line

Classification

i's

1.3

ITS

TS

SEARCHED

ORALIZED

7 S

C

S

INDEXEU

SFILENC

S 1980

FBI-NEWARK

• See reverse side for additional listings.

FBILQ Division 4/ Other

This form is:

Top Secret

Secret

HT 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 27

* DCRU

Other -

Confidential E Unclassified

sat

(Initials)

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 28

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI.

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

PAGE FOURTEEN NK 100-57232

ASSIGNED JUNE 20, 1953, TO CONDUCT INVESTIGATION REGARDING

LEVISON'S COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES.

FILE CONTAINS COVERAGE OF

LEVISON'S BANK ACCOUNTS, EMPLOYMENT, TELEPHONE CHECKS, POLICE

DEPARTMENT CHECKS, ASSOCIATES, AND LEADERSHIP ROLL IN THE CPUSA.

CASE CLOSED MARCH 5, 1963. FILE CONTAINS TWO (2) EXHIBITS, BOTH

OF. WHICH ARE PHOTOS OF STANLEY LEVISON.

D. SIZE AND SCOPE OF FILE -

NEWARK FILE CONSISTS OF THIRTY-FOUR (34) SERIALS AND HAS A

SUB A SECTION CONTAINING TWO (2) EXHIBITS. FILE CONTAINS NO

LOGS, TRANSCRIPTS, TAPES, OR ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LOGS.

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971-413-135

HW 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 28

---

## Page 29

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

(Priority)

PAGE FIFTEEN NK 100-57232

ADMINISTRATIVE

THE BUREAU SHOULD BE AWARE THAT INFORMATION UNDER SECTION 2A,

NEWARK 100-47520, CONTAINS INFORMATION REGARDING SUB SECTIONS

I, II, III, AND IV. THESE SUB FILES ARE CLASSIFIED AS JUNE.

END

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per.

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1971 - 413-

HW 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 29

---

## Page 30

12/15

80-57235*

othere-

NRO61 WA PLAIN

9:0OPM NITEL 12/12/75 MPM.

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR:, DEPARIMENTAL REVIEW, COST DATA:

REBUTEL. DECEMBER 9, 1975. IN ORDER THAT COSTS INCURRED IN

CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER BAY BE COMPILED, YOU ARE REQUESTED

TO FURNISH THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

1. MANPOWER: THE NAME, GRADE AND SALARY STEP, AND

HOURS SPENT BY EACH EMPLOYEE WHO WORKED ON THIS MATTER.

20 UNUSUAL COSTS: ANY UNUSUAL OR OUT-OF-THE-

ORDINARY COSTS. THESE COSTS SHOULD BE ITEMIZED AND THE COST OF

EACH ITEM SHOWN SEPARATELY.

- ALL REPORIS MUST BE SUBMITTED TO THE BUREAU, ATTENTION

BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION. INITIAL

REPORI IS DUE DECEMBER 31, 1975. FUTURE REPORTS ARE DUE BY THE

FIFTH WORKDAY OF EACH MONTH, STARTING WITH FEBRUARY 1976.

END

PLS HOLD FOR THREE MORE •

110-5723513

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED.

L INDEED.

FILED

DEC H 2 1975

FBI - NEWARK

IN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 30

---

## Page 31

1/2/76

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(ATTN:

BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEWARK (200-57235) (RUC)

MARTIN LATHE RENE, BOST DATA

Re Bureau teletype to all SAC's dated 12/12/75.

Per Bureau instructions, the following information

is set forth:

I.

Manpower: the name, grade and step and hours spent

by each employee who worked

on this matter:

A) CHARLES F. CROWLEY, Grade 14, Step 3, hours spent 4.

B) FERNANDO E. MATA, Grade 11, Step 4, hours spent 4.

C) LEWIS L. SMALL, Grade 12, Step 1, Hours Spent 4.

D) DENNY L. KLINE, Grade 12, Step 3, hours spent 4.

E) DONALD W. MANNO, Grade 12, Step 3, hours spent 8.

E) JERRY A. TUCKER, Grade 11, Step 4, hours spent 30.

G)

SUSAN J. LEONE, Grade 4, Step 3, hours spent 3.

H)

JACKIE KOENIGSBERG, Grade 5, Step 5, hours spent Il

2-Bureau

1oNewark

AT/jz

180-57235-4

Destroy 1-10308

55509

DocId: 32177298

Page 31

---

## Page 32

NK 100-57235

I. LUCIA STURTEVANT, Grade 5, Step 4, hours spent 1g.

J. THOMASSINA SHORT, Grade 4, Step 2, Hours spent 1.

II. Unusual Costs:

None.

Delay in submitting the above due to Newark special

"LAGBON"'•

2

HH 55509 DooId: 32177298

Page 32

---

## Page 33

0-9. (Re'= 2e14-74)

Transmit in

Via

FBI

airtel

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Precedence)

-

02/174

Joda

SAC, Albany

Director, FBI

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW

COST DATA

180.57235°

150-475207

ReBunitel 12/12/75. Reports concerning cost data

on captioned matter may be discontinued.

2 - Each Field Office

(This line for LEFT MARGIN.)

(Do not type BEYOND THIS MARGIN.)

"Do not type below this line.)

1093572355

¡SERIALIZED-A-

+ 23191976

FS! - NEWARK

HH 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 33

---

## Page 34

NR9002 WA CODE SENT 4:20AM 7/3D/76 MJW

PM NITEL 07/29/76 MDP

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (1RD-106670)

SEEATTACHES

MARTIN LUTHER KING; JR. BUDED AUGUSI 9, 1976

FOR INFORMATION OF RECIPIENTS THE ATTORNEY GENERAL (AG)

HAS ORDERED A REVIEW OF THE FBI'S INVESTIGATION OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING• ASSIGNED TO CONDUÇT THIS REVIEW IS A TASK FORCE

WORKING UNDER DIRECTION OF THE OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL

RESPONSIBILITY (OPR) OF. THE DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE. THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL HAS INDICATED THE REVIEW IS TO RESOLVE THE

FOLLOWING FOUR QUESTIONS: (1): WAS THE FBI INVESTIGATION OF

KING'S ASSASSINATION THOROUGH AND HONEST?. (2) IS THERE ANY

EVIDENCE THE FBI WAS INVOLVED IN THE ASSASSINATION? (3) IS

THERE ANY NEW EVIDENCE WHICH HAS COME TO THE ATTENTION OF THE

DEPARTMENT CONCERNING THE ASSASSINATION? (4) DOES THE .

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BUREAU AND KING CALL FOR CRIMINAL

PROSECUTIONS, DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS OR OTHER APPROPRIATE

ACTION?

THIS REVIEW IS A CONTINUATION OF A "PARTIAL REVIEW" RECENTLY

100-

SEARGHEDS

SERIALIZED

Couter

5/2235-6

INDEXER

JUL 30 1976

FBI-NEWARK

LieR

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 34

---

## Page 35

PAGE TWO

CONDUCTED BY, THE CIVIL RIGHTS DIVISION OF THE DEPARIMENT UNDER

DIRECTION OF ASSISTANT AG J. STANLEY POTTINGER. ALL PERSONNEL

ON THE TASK FORCE ARE AUTHORIZED TOTAL ACCESS TO OUR FILES

PERTAINING TO KING'S ASSASSINATION, OUR INTELLIGENCE INVESTI-

GATION OF KING AND ANY FILES RELATING TO BASIS FOR THESE

INVESTIGATIONS. THIS WILL INCLUDE COVER PAGES OF COMMUNICATIONS

CONTAINING IDENTITIES OF SOME FBI SOURCES AND INFORMANTS WHO

WERE NOT AFFORDED SYMBOL NUMBERS AT THAT TIME AND INDIVIDUALS

WHO EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED CONFIDENTIALITY.

TO DATE THE TASK FORCE HAS REVIEWED FBIHQ AND WFO FILES

414-8547

CONCERNING THE ASSASSINATION OF KING CAPTIONED "MURKIN,

100-57235*

BUREAÙ FILE 44-33861.. TASK FORCE MEMBERS HAVE TRAVELED TO

MEMPHIS, MILWAUKEE, KANSAS CITY, OMAHA, SAN FRANCISCO AND . .

LOS ANGELES AND REVIEWED MURKIN AND INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION

FILES OF THOSE OFFICES. FUTURE TRAVEL BY THE TASK FORCE IS

PLANNED FOR ATLANTA, BIRMINGHAM, CHARLOTTE, CHICAGO, NEW ORLEANS,

NEW YORK, SPRINGFIELD AND ST. LOUIS.

AFTER ABOVE TRAVEL IS COMPLETED AND KING RELATED SECURITY

FILES AT FBIHQ ARE REVIEWED, THE TASK FORCE WILL HAVE SEEN THE

MAJORITY OF SERIALS IN OUR FILES RELATING TO THE KING INVESTI-

GATIONS. HOWEVER, SINCE IT IS THE GOAL OF THE TASK FORCE TO

REVIEW KING RELATED FILES IN EVERY FIELD OFFICE, IT WILL BE

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 35

---

## Page 36

PAGE THREE:

NECESSARY TO FORWARD XEROX COPIES OF FILES FROM THE REMAINING

OFFICES TO FBIHQ FOR REVIEW.

THEREFORE, ALL RECIPIENTS WITH EXCEPTION OF THOSE OFFICES

NAMED ABOVE, FURNISH FBIHQ ONE XEROX COPY OF EACH SERIAL CON-

TAINED IN YOUR KING ASSASSINATION FILE CAPTIONED "MURKIN®" IT

IS REQUESTED THIS; MATERIAL BE PROCESSED AND MAILED TO REACH FBIHQ

PRIOR TO AUGUST 9, 1976. THIS MATERIAL SHOULD BE SENT BY

REGISTERED MAIL, ATTENTION DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR INGRAM,

INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.

IF MURKIN FILES CONTAIN ANY PHOTOGRAPHS, EXHIBITS OR OTHER

ITEMS WHICH CANNOT BE XEROXED A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EACH ITEM

AND ITS LOCATION SHOULD BE SET FORTH IN YOUR COMMUNICATIONS

TRANSMITTING THE DOCUMENTS TO FBIHQ.

SUBSEQUENT INSTRUCTIONS WILL BE ISSUED CONCERNING SUBMISSION

OF COPIES OF OUR INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATION. OF KING AND RELATED

SECURITY FILES. OFFICES TO BE VISITED IN THE FUTURE BY TASK

FORCE PERSONNEL WILL ALSO BE FURNISHED APPROPRIATE INSTRUCTIONS

BY SEPARATE COMMUNICATION.

END

AA

AH 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 36

---

## Page 37

NRO071 WA CODE

9:05PM NITEL 7-30-76 CMB

• (12115)

100-572357 others

numeroils

+.

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR. (180-186678)

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; BUDED AUGUST 9, 1976.

REBUTEL TO ALL SACS JULY 28, 1976.

FURTHER DISCUSSIONS WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TASK

FORCE HAS RESULTED IN THE FOLLOWING CHANGE REGARDING

REPRODUCTION OF FIELD OFFICE SERIALS IN THE MURKIN INVESTI-

GATION, AS OUTLINED IN REFERENCED TELETYPE.

• IT WILL BE NECESSARY ONLY TO XEROX THE FIRST PAGE OF ANY

DOCUMENT IN YOUR MURKIN FILE IF A COPY OF THAT DOCUMENT HAS

BEEN • SUBMITTED TO FBIHQ. THIS

WILL INCLUDE BOTH DOCUMENTS

ORIGINATING IN YOUR OFFICE AND THOSE RECEIVED FROM OTHER FIELD

DIVISIONS. ANY DOCUMENTS IN YOUR MURKIN FILE, COPIES OF

WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN SUBMITTED TO FBIHQ MUST BE REPRODUCED IN

THEIR ENTIRETY AND FORWARDED TO FBIHQ.

IT IS NOTED THAT THIS FIRST PAGE SHOULD CONTAIN THE FIELD

OFFICE SERIAL NUMBER IN ORDER THAT THE DEPARTMENT CAN .

MAKE A COMPLETE CHRONOLOGICAL ACCOUNTING OF EACH FIELD

OFFICE SERIAL.

END

nitel sea

to Burea

100-57235

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED

ANDEXED

FILED.

JUL 30 1976

FBI-NEWARK

La'k

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 37

---

## Page 38

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

Transmit the following in -

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

8/3/76

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Precedence)

008

TO BUREAU (100-106670)

FROM NEWARK (100-572 35)

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

BUDED AUGUST 9, 1976.

RE: BUREAU NITELS TO ALL SACS 7/30/76.

NEWARK FILE 44-854, BUFILE 44-33861 CAPTIONED "MURKIN-CR"

AND SUB A SECTION DESTROYED AT NEWARK, APRIL 1976, PER. MANUAL

OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.

IT IS NOTED THAT NEWARK TELETYPE TO THE BUREAU DATED 12/12/75

CAPTIONED "MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR." SET FORTH BRIEF DESCRIPTION

OF "MURKIN" FILE CONTENT.

END

100-57235-8

Police See

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298 Page 38

---

## Page 39

NRO9O WA PLAIN

8:24PM NITEL D8-06- 76. SRS

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

80-0-20064 (ita)

100-577354 619/25)

80-0-19988

other?

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; DEPARIMENTAL REVIEW; COST DATA

REBUTEL JULY 29, 1976.

IN ORDER THAT COSTS INCURRED

IN CONNECTION WITH THIS MATTER MAY BE COMPILED, YOU ARE

REQUESTED TO FURNISH THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

1• MANPOWER: THE NAME, GRADE AND SALARY STEP, AND

HOURS

SPENT, BOIM REGULAR AND OVERTIME, BY EACH EMPLOYEE

WHO WORKED ON THIS

MATTER.

2. UNUSUAL COSIS: ANY UNUSUAL OR OUT-OF-IHE-

ORDINARY COSTS. THESE COSTS SHOULD BE ITEMIZED AND THE

COST OF EACH ITEM SHOWN SEPARATELY •

ALL REPORIS MUST BE SUBMITTED. TO THE BUREAU,

ATTENTION BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, FINANCE AND

PERSONNEL DIVISION. THE FIRST REPORI FOR THE PERIOD

THROUGH AUGUST 31, 1976, AND FOR EACH MONTH THEREAFTER

SHOULD REACH THE BUREAU BY THE FIFTH WORKDAY OF EACH

MONTH.

END

100-57233

SEARCHED.

_INDEXED.

SERIALIZED

FILED

€ 1916

FBI -NEWARK /

ThoR

IRS

IN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 39

---

## Page 40

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

Transmit the following in -

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

8/30/76

CLEAR

(Type in plaintext or code)

ROUTINE

(Precedence)

IM NEWARK (100-57235)

TO DIRECTOR (ROUTINE) 2432142= HQ2

CLEAR

ATTN: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, FINANCE AND PERSONNEL

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.; DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW; COST DATA

RE: BUREAU NITEL, 8/6/76.

PER BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION

IS SET FORTH:

1. MANPOWER: THE NAME, GRADE, STEP, AND HOURS SPENT

ON THIS MATTER IN AUGUST.

A. SA JOHN W. ROBINSON, GRADE 13, STEP 10, TWO HOURS.

BT

100-57235-80

LINDERED.

#

JWR/rC

Approved:

6/C9K

Sent

5t0

_M Per

Orc

R6

GPO: 1975 0 - 590-992

H# 55509 DocId: 32177298

Page 40

---

## Page 41

HQ 0 0048 2800050

RR AFD

DE HQ

R 052115Z. OCT 76

FM DIRECTOR (100-106670)

TO ALL SACS ROUTINE

BT

100-57235#

(12-15)

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

BUDED OCTOBER 26, 1976

REFERENCE BUREAU TELETYPES IO ALL OFFICES DATED JULY 28,.

1976 AND JULY 38, 1976 WHICH PROVIDED BACKGROUND MATERIAL

REGARDING REVIEW OF OUR KING INVESTIGATIONS CURRENTLY BEING

CONDUCTED BY THE OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY (OPR)

OF THE DEPARIMENT OF

JUSTICE. TELETYPES ALSO PROVIDED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR CERTAIN FIELD OFICES TO FURNISH TO FBIHQ A

COPY OF ALL SERIALS CONTAINED IN THE KING ASSASSINATION FILE

CAPIIONED, "MURKIN".

PURPOSE OF THIS TELETYPE IS TO INSTRUCI MAJORITY OF FIELD

OFFICES TO REPRODUCE AND SEND TO FBIHQ KING

AND RELATED

SECURITY FILES FOR REVIEW BY THE OPR TASK

FORCE.

100-57235-11

SEARCHED_

SÈRIALIZED.

NDEXE

FILED OX

Seft-ro/s

OCT 5

1976

FBI-NEWARK

LAUZIER

IN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 41

---

## Page 42

PAGE TWO (100-1066701 EFT O

THE TASK FORCE DESIRES TO REVIEW FIELD OFFICE FILES

AND SUBFILES IN THE FOLLOWING INVESTIGATIONS: (1) MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., SM-C; BUFILE 100-106670; (2) COMMUNIST

INFILIRATION OF SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE,

IS-C; BUFILE 100-433794; (3) COMMUNIST INFLUENCE IN RACIAL

MATTERS (CIRM), BUFILE 100-442529; (4) CPUSA - NEGRO

QUESTION, BUFILE 100-3-116; (5) STANLEY DAVID LEVISON, SM-C,

BUFILE 100-392.452.

IT IS NOTED THAT EACH FIELD OFFICE PROVIDED A COMPLETE

INVENTORY OF THE ABOVE FILES IN RESPONSE TO FBIHQ TELETYPE

TO 'ALL OFFICES DATED DECEMBER 9, 1975 CAPTIONED, "MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR"•

THE BELOW INSTRUCTIONS DO NOT. APPLY TO ATLANTA AND

CHICAGO BECAUSE TASK FORCE PERSONNEL HAVE PARTIALLY REVIEWED

FILES OF THESE OFFICES AND PLAN TO RETURN THERE IN THE NEAR

FUTURE TO COMPLETE REVIEW.

THE BELOW INSTRUCTIONS DO NOI APPLY TO NEW YORK AND

BALTIMORE BECAUSE TASK FORCE PERSONNEL PLAN TRAVEL TO THESE

OFFICES IN THE NEAR FUTURE TO REVIEW ALL ABOVE FILES.

AH 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 42

---

## Page 43

PAGE THREE (100- 106670) EFT O

BIRMINGHAM, CHARLOTTE, KANSAS CITY, LOS ANGELES, MEMPHIS,

MILWAUKEE, NEW ORLEANS, OMAHA, ST. LOUIS, SAN FRANCISCO,

SPRINGFIELD AND WASHINGTON FIELD DISREGARD BELOW INSTRUCTIONS SINCE

OPR REVIEW OF YOUR KING RELATED FILES HAS BEEN COMPLETED.

SAN JUAN DISREGARD BELOW INSTRUCTIONS SINCE YOUR FILE

INVENTORY RESPONSE SHOWS YOUR OFFICE HAS NO SECURITY FILES

RELATING TO KING.

ALL OTHER RECIPIENIS FURNISH FBIHQ ONE XEROX COPY OF EACH

, SERIAL CONTAINED IN THE ABOVE SPECIFIED FILES.

IT WILL BE NECESSARY ONLY TO XEROX THE FIRSI PAGE OF

ANY DOCUMENT IN YOUR

FILES IF A COPY. OF THAI DOCUMENT HAS BEEN

SUBMITTED TO FBIHQ. THIS WILL INCLUDE DOCUMENTS ORIGINATING

IN YOUR OFFICE AND THOSE RECEIVED FROM OTHER FIELD DIVISIONS.

IT IS NOTED THAT THIS FIRST PAGE SHOULD CONTAIN THE FIELD OFFICE.

SERIAL IN ORDER THAT THE DEPARIMENT CAN

MAKE A COMPLETE CHRONO-

LOGICAL ACCOUNTING OF EACH FIELD OFFICE SERIAL. ANY DOCUMENTS

IN YOUR FILES, COPIES OF WHICH HAVE NOI BEEN SUBMITTED TO FBIHO,

MUST BE REPRODUCED IN THEIR ENTIRETY AND FORWARDED TO FBIHQ.•

IF ANY FILE CONTAINS PHOTOGRAPHS, EXHIBITS, OR OTHER

AH 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 43

---

## Page 44

PAGE FOUR (100-196670) EF I O

ITEMS WHICH CANNOT BE XEROXED, A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF EACH

ITEM AND LOCATION SHOULD BE SET FORTH IN COMMUNICATIONS

TRANSMITTING DESIRED DOCUMENIS TO FBIHQ.

WITH RESPECI TO FILES CONCERNING CIRM AND CPUSA - NEGRO

QUESTION, THE OPR TASK FORCE HAS AGREED TO A CUTOFF YEAR OF

1960. THEREFORE, NO SERIAL IN THESE FILES DATED PRIOR TO

JANUARY 1960 NEED BE SUBMIITED. THIS CUTOFF DATE. DOES NOT

APPLY TO INVESTIGATIVE FILES CONCERNING KING, SCLO AND

LEVISON.

IT IS REQUESTED THIS MATERIAL DESIRED BY THE TASK FORCE

BE PROCESSED AND MAILED TO REACH

FBIHQ BY OCTOBER 26, 1976.

THE MATERIAL SHOULD SE SENT BY REGISTERED MAIL, ATTENTION

DEPUTY ASSISTANI DIRECIOR JAMES O. INGRAM, GENERAL INVESTI-

GATIVE DIVISION.

•SINCE THE DEPARIMENT TASK FORCE MUST SEE EVERY SERIAL

IN OUR INVESTIGATION OF KING AT FBIHR AND IN THE FIELD, IT

IS ECONOMICALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE GOVERNMENT TO REPRODUCE AND

MAIL THESE DOCUMENTS RATHER THAN HAVING TASK FOPCE PERSONNEL

TRAVEL TO ALL FIELD OFFICES.. ABOVE MENTIONED OFFICES TO BE

VISITED IN THE FUTURE BY THE TASK FORCE WILL BE FURNISHED

TRAVEL INFOPMATION AT A LATER DATE.

BT

IN 55509 DooId:32177298

Page 44

---

## Page 45

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

ATIN: DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR JAMES O. INGRAM

GEHERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION)

SAC, NEWARK (100-57235)

10/19/76

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

(BUDED OCTOBER 26,

1976)

RE: Bureau teletype, October 5, 1976.

Enclosed are the serials requested fron the

following files according to Bureau teletype dated October 5,

1976:

Newark file 100-57235; Bufile 100-106670

Newark file

100-47609; Bufile 100-438749,

Volumes 1, 2,

3

and4

Newark file 100-43052; Bufile 100-442529

Volumes 1; 2, 3

andy

Newark file 100-4284TT; Fufile 100-3-116

Volumes 1, 2 and 3

Newark file 100-36987; Bufile 100-392452

Newark file 100-36988; Bufile 100-332451

It is to be noted that serials from Newark file

100-36988, Bufile 100-392451 are being

sert inasmuch as

the file refers to ROY BENNETT LEVINSON,

brother of

STANLEY LEVINSON, and many serials in this file refer to

both of the brothers.

Newark file 100-36987 contains a photo of

STANLEY DAVID LEVINSON•

Newark file 100-4284TT Volume 1, contains a

photograph of

JFK Act 6 (3)

SEARCHED_

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

100-57235-12

3- Bureau

(1-Fackage copy)

I Newar

AHLAr

f'iolatte

Destry- 10/646

188-1038507

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 45

---

## Page 46

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670) ATTN:

DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR JAMES O. INGRAM,

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE

SAC, NEWARK (200-57235 EVISION

10/26/76

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SM-C

(BUDED. 10/26/76)

Re :

Bureau teletype dated 10/5/76.

telephone call dated 10/22/76, requesting

review of Newark file 100-45720-Bureau file

100-1066%0.

Enclosed are serials requested from file 100-47520.

It is to be noted that the lA Section of file 100-47520

contains a Dun and Bradstreet deport on Pharmaco: Inc., Kenilworth,

The 1A Section also contains a "throwavay" captioned

"MARTIN LUTHER KING AT COMMUNIST TRAINING SCHOOL", reprinted

from "Augusta Courier," 8/8/63.

100-522354

3-Bureau (enc. 1)

2- Newark

(1-Chief Clork)

MEL,/ sah

15) ada

18-10383

AH 55509 DooId: 32177298

Page 46

---

## Page 47

Routing Slip

(Copies to Offices Checked)

0-7 (Rexal -12-16)

TO: SAC:

Albany

Houston

11-5-76

(Date)

TO LEGAT:

→ Oklahoma City

Albuquerque

Indianapolis

Omaha

Alexandria

Jack son

Philadelphia

Anchorage

Jacksonville

Phoenix

Atlanta

Kansas City

Pittsburgh

Baltimore

Knoxville

Portland

Birmingham

Las Vegas

Richmond

Boston

Little Rock

Sacramento

Buffalo

Los Angeles

St. Louis

Butte

Louisville

Salt Lake City

Charlotte

Memphis

San Antonio

Chicago

Miami

San Diego

Cincinnati

Milwaukee

San Francisco

Cleveland

Minneapolis

San Juan

Columbia

Mobile

Savannah

Bonn

• Brasilia

1 Buenos Aires

Caracas

] Hong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

1 Mexico City

→ Ottawa

1 Paris

→ Rome

Tokyo

Dallas

Newark

Seattle

Denver

New Haven

Springfield

Detroit

New Orleans

Tamp a

El Paso

New York City

Washington Field

Honolulu

I Norfolk

Quantico

7 SAC, New Rochelle (MRA)

Y'ASAC, Rapid City (*Mini"

RE:

Barat nutes rever. 80-0.20015

Cost Data

ISEARCHED SAT

NDEXE

SERIALIZED

Retention

For appropriate

_ For information

1 optional

• action

[7 Surep, by .

] The enclosed is for your information. If used in a futite repast,

1976 ceal

sources, paraphrase contents.

- Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

FBI - NEWAIK

dated

Remarks:

100-57235-14

To date this office has not received a tabulation

of time spent by your office re above for the

month of September, 1976.

Enc.

Bufile

Urfile

Budget & Acc. Sect.

Jay A. Brixey .

JAB/CSF

Fal/DOJ

HH 55509 DocId:32177298

Page 47

---

## Page 48

11/9/76

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-106670)

(ATIN: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION,

ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISION)

FROM:

SAC, NEWARK (100-57235) (RUC)

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW,

COST DATA

Re: Bureau Routing Slip, 11/5/76.

1. Manpower: Name, grade and step and hours spent

by each employee who worked on this matter.

A. MAURICE Ii. LAUZIERE, Grade 13, Step 8, 6 hours

B. DENISE ROMAN, Grade 4, Step 4, 5 hours

C. MARGARET KLEPMONT, Grade 3, Step 1, 6 hours

D. KATHY GALLAGHER, Grade 4, Step 4, 6 hours

E. MICHAEL FANNARA, Grade 3, Step 1, 6 hours

2. Unusual Cost

None

3-Bureau

Newark

NHL/ Kap

(4)

Kep

INDEXED

FILED

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

100-57235-15

188-10385

NN 55509 DocId:32177298 Page 48

---

