# docid-32989753

## Page 1

File #:

62/17290

SECTION 10

Serial Scope:

652,653

696 THRU 700

659

661,662

664

668 THRÜ 673

677

679

682X1

684X

6.86

689

Me wacha de a em ay aposentou notõe contestou dos de 1002 134 USe LE

Case:NU 55066 Date: 11-20-2017

55066

DooId: 32989753 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAI

RICH:/SO' PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E: FAUMTROY, D.C.

STESYAHT D. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE DRATHNAITE DURKE. CALIFO

CHAHLES THONE, NEOR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, COSH.

• HAROLD 5. SAWYER, MICH.

J'ANOLO E. FORD, TENN.

RODERT I, LOGAR, FA.

(202) 225-4623

flutter

Rec.ciu

5/9/96

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

April 28, 1978

Co

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

• United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this.Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

seguested that.

Investigation make the following individuals available for

staff interviews:

1) R. E. Long

2) E. J. McDonough

3) W. I. Martindale

RECAG

4) C. I. McGowan

62-19510-700

5) James R. Malley

ST-128,

6) C. D. DeLoach

•1X1W7

7) Courtney Evans

8)

Robert E. Wick

9) Fxed J. Baumgardner

62-117290

10) Joseph A. S1z00

11) Charles D. Brennan

12)

James Bland

1319, Bichara William Corman

HH 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page ' 2

TREATAS

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 3

The Honorable GrI

April 28, 1978

Page 2

In

B. Bell -

14) Paul L. Cox

The Committee expects to commence these interviews on or

about May 15, 1978.

Therefore, it would be greatly appre-

ciated if the Bureau would begin its clearance procedures on

a priority basis.

Your continued cooperation is as always appreciated.

Very truly yours,

M. Robert Blakey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

Sec:

Danny Coulson

3150 64)

---

## Page 4

=

1 - Mr. Long - Enc.

1 - Mr. Foster - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2 - Mr. Coulson - Enc.

May. I,, 1976

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert Keuch

Director, FBIl

HOUSE SELECT CONMITICE O ASSASSINATIONS

ME SOYSESS

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this menoranaun advises that special Agent

David N. Jellison of the diani Field Office was

interviewed on March 29, 1978.

A remorandom setting

forth Mr. Jellison's account of this interview is

enclosed for your information.

Enclosure

• h

Spinagence

MAILED 7

MAY 3 1978

FBI

ST-728

BEGS L 2-112 240 - 692-

i - Personnel file - David N. Jellison - Enclosure

6

MAY 9

1978

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

"'Adm. Serv.

*Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mgnt.

Tech. Servs

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Calde 97/3

(1.91)

MAIL ROOM

FBI/DOJ

HIH

---

## Page 5

ED-$6 GReY. 12-14-14)

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

4/12/78

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Precedence)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATT:

DAN COULSON,

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (62-6603) (C)

RE:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Enclosed for the Bureau are five (5) copies of

an IHM re intervieW oI SA DAVID N. JELLISON by stalI

counsel and investigators of captioned committee on 3/29/78.

Per Bureau request, no property statement is being

placed on enclosed INCLOSURE

Bureau (Enc. 5) (RM)

- Miami

DNJ: S1

REC:46,

(4)

Enclosures detAched

62-1122905

698

& sent with The AssiSTANT $-128

TTORNeL

6 MAY 9 1978

on

memo datod 5/178.

Xunt designAte.

Ticklen copies.

note

Approved MAy s

Agent in Charge

IH 55066 DocId: 32989753

Page 5

Sent

Per

GPO: 1975 0 - 590-992

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

62-6603

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

April 12, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

INTERVIEW OF

SPECIAL AGENT DAVID N. JELLISON

On March 29, 1978, I, David N. Jellison, Special

Agent with the Miami Office of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation, was interviewed by Richard C. Wrose,

wark spelser, and Wendy Collins, investigators, and

Peter G. Beeson, Staff Counsel, for the United States House

• of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations.

This interview took place at the House of Representatives

• Select Committee Office Building, Washington, D.C.

At the outset, I identified myself as a Special

Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and obtained

names and titles of the interviewing officials. I also

furnished my date of birth, Social Security Number, and general

background information relating to my FBI career to date.

specifically furnished the date I commenced my assignment in

the Miami Division as June 1966. Upon arriving in Miami, I was

assigned to the investigation of civil rights and extremist

matters as they existed in the Miami Division at that time.

In this regard, I was assigned to handling the Martin Luther King

murder investigation as leads developed in the Miami Division

in 1968.

I was asked to comment on any contact I had with

William Sommersett, an extremist source in the Miami Division

at the time I was assigned to investigate extremist matters.

To my recollection, regular contact with Somersett had been

discontinued prior to my arrival in Miami due to his unstable

behavior and to avoid possible embarrassment to the Bureau.

I am of the opinion that for some years prior to 1966,

Sommersett had furnished reliable information to the Bureau

relating to both extremist and criminal matters. Any direct

ITI I

L5i580

ENCLOSURE

62-117295698

HH 55066 DocId: 32989753*

Page 6

---

## Page 7

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

INTERVIEW OF SPECIAI AGENT DAVID N. JELLISON

contact I had with Sommersett was initiated by Sommersett,

and any information developed

as a result was accepted at

face value and either verified or discredited, as the case

may have been.

Io my knowledge, Sommersett. was not paid

for any information he furnished to the FBI during my tenure

handling extremist matters.

Whatever contact the Miami Police Department had

with Sommersett is unknown to me with the exception of a

bombing matter which fell under the jurisdiction of the Miami

Police Department and of which Sommersett apparently had

direct knowledge.

I was shown a memorandum by the House of

Representatives interviewing officials which was allegedly

written by an Officer Sap of the Miami Police Department on

April 25, 1968, to Chief of Police Headley, wherein Officer

Sap stated he had developed information from Sommersett on

April 3, 1968 indicating that Martin Luther King would be

killed in Memphis, Tennessee. I never met Officer Sap and

never saw this nemorandum.

I do not recall Sommersett or

any Miami Police Department official relating any of the

information contained in this memorandum to me.

Prior to the conclusion of this interview, I was

asked about several names which were unknown to me and was

interrogated about any knowledge I might have regarding an

FBI "Cointell" (phonetic) Program as it pertained to the Miami

Division. I have no knowledge of this program in the Miami

Division or anywhere else in the Bureau.

At the conclusion of the interview, I was advised

that I would be notified of any further inquiries in this

matter wherein my presence or testimony would be necessary.

2*

NH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 7

---

## Page 8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

:. Assistant Director

Administrative Services Division

: Legal counself

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DATE: 5/3/7,8

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. - :

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. =

Intell. -

Echaratory -

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp.

Ree. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs. -

Training.

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm.

Direcior's Sec'y -

ALL INTO:"

geT M97D

PURPOSE:

Ez1-15 pinacars

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise

that former SA James P. McMahon has. been released from

his employment agreement in order that he may. be inter-

viewed by captioned Committee.

DETAILS :

On 4/21/78, the Director advised that henceforth

the Assistant Director, Legal Counsel Division, will have

the authority to release present and former employees from

their employment agreements so they may be interviewed in

connection with Congressional inquiries.

7.19

By. letter to the Attorney General dated 4/17/78,

the HSCA requested an interview of former SA James P. •

McMahon in connection with the assassination of Martin Luther

King, JI., investigation.

McMahon is retired and resides

in Rochester, New York, home telephone number (716) 223-24/9

and office number (716) 126-86104

Dumb A no on it telephoney area

by the Congressional Inquiry Unit, Records Management Division,

of the interest of the Committee, and prior to the interview,

a Legal Counsel representative will provide Mr. McMahon with

a briefing as to the scope and limitation

of the interview.

RECOMMENDATION:

TO MAY 10 1978

None. For Information

I - Mr. Bassett

• Mr. Foster

1

- Personnel file - SA James P. McMahon

- Mr. Mintz

APPROVED:

- Mr

1-

Director

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Couns

Tech. Servs.-

Training

‹Public Affs. Off.

HH 55066

BU 5. 39500

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId? 32989753 Page 8

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 9

LOUIS S-ÚKES, OHIO, CHAIRM

RISHARDSON PREYER, NC

SAMUEL L

NE. OHIO

JALTER I FAUNTROY, D.C

STEWART DE

WLKINNSY, CONN..

YVONNE BRATHWNTE DURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER S. D000, CONN,

HAROLD E. PARD, TENT.

"FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT VY, EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Rec.clu

4 20/78

C.5. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 14, 1978

FEDERAL GOVERNNENE

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washinaton, D. C.

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

2 - CLOSURE

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

The Subcommittee, which is investigating the circumstances

surrounding the death of DI. Martin Luther King, JX., has

obtained authorization to be furnished any and all information

under the Federal Bureau of Investigation's control concerning

Ronald Ivy and Calvin Taylor.

Submitted herewith are copies of Messrs. 'Ivy's and

Taylor's releases, and in accordance with same, we request

that the FBI make

access available on a priority basis to any

and all files pertaining to these two gentlemen.

As time is of the utmost importance, your prompt attention

to this matter is greatly appreciated.

Sincerely,

(тте)

2. Robut Blocky

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

Enclosures

Vec: Danny Coulson

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

EX-101

this!

REC:56

62-117290

62-117290-

696

22 MAY 10 1978

16351 15-65113

Nir

518 MAY 1 71978

НН 5506

DocId: 32989753 Page 9

---

## Page 10

& LOUIS X»

RICHAMOSON PREYER, N.C.

WALTIR I. FAUNTHOY, D.C.

¡YUNNE BZATHHAITE BURKE, CALIT.

"CHRISTOPHER S, DUDO, COMA.

HAMOLD I. FORD, TENN.

HOYD S, FITHIAN, IND.

MODERT H. EDGAR, FA.

¡S 'ОНІО, СЛІНМ

SAMUER

INE. OHIO

SKINNEY, CONN

слнь- Then drone

HAMOLO S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.E. Ilouse of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

I, the undersigned; hereby authorize the Federal Bureau of Investigation

(FBI) to release any and all information which it has or maintained concerning

me, and/or which it has received or obtained from me, to the Select Committee

on Assassinations of the United States House of Representatives (Committee)

and its staff. By this authorization, I knowingly and voluntarily waive

whatever rights I may have to withnola disclosure. of information in the

possession of the FBI to the Comnittee and its staff.

Date: Agail 6, 1928

Calvin Taylor

096

62-1172,90-

ENCLOSURE

• NH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 10

---

## Page 11

B8AL.T6M F. FAUNIMON, D.E.

CHRITIUFHIN J. CAIDU, CONAL

-MARVING. FUNIS TENN..

MODENT IY. FOGAN, FA.

INÁ, 81410

SIAWANTA

MCMINHLY, CONN.

CHAMLEA THANT, NEAM.

MATOLD 8. BAHTEN, MICH,

(802) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

El.E. House af Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

•5920

I, the undersigned, hereby authorize the Federal Bureau of Investigation

(FBI) to release any and all information which it has or maintained concerning

me, and/or which it has received or obtained from me, to the Select Committee

on Assassinations of the United States House of Representatives (Committee)

and its staff. By this authorization, I knowingly and voluntarily waive

whatever rights I may have to withhold disclosure of information in the

possession of the FBI to the Committee and its staff.

Signed:

Date:_

11/6/78

Ronalde

Ivy

Witnessed ly: JeremyRtbers

2:30PM

4/6/78

62-111290-6696

ENCLOSURE

1Н 55066 DocId:32989753

Page 11

---

## Page 12

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

SAMUEL L. DEVI

STEWART B. MO

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

cOnd.

(202) 225-4624

adorise

Select Committee on Assassinations

TI.D. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

APR 2 7 1978

5/1/75"

TREAT

(AS

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: • Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

The Report of the Department of Justice Task :

Force to Review the F.B.I. Martin Luther King, Jr.,

Security and Assassination Investigations discusses

a series of surreptitious entries designed, among

other purposes, to obtain information about.Dr. King

and the s.C.L.C.

In connection with the investigation by this

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the

death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., staff members

have determined that access to certain additional

information is necessary at this time.

The Committee,

therefore, requests that the F.B.I. review the appropriate

files and

provide the following information:

1. The total number of entries made for

purposes not related to technical

surveillance.

2.

The city in which each entry occurred.

3.

4.

• 5.

A statement of the approvals and authorit

under which each

REC-56

entry was undertaken.

62-112298

The material: or type of material

194

sough

each entry.

A detailed description of the material

MAIT 3

1978

information acquired, copied or photographed,

during each enticy.

6.

s: LIlotemplated that the

62-117298

5M078

DocId:32989753

Page 12

---

## Page 13

-

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Page 2

As time is of the essence, and it is not anticipated

that this request will pose any compliance difficulties,

it is requested that this matter receive priority

attention.

Sincerely;

82. Nobut Bleaky

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

•GRB/wwd

Lec:

Mr. Danny Coulson

IH 55066 DocId: 32989753

Page 13

---

## Page 14

UNITIN' STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm; —

Dep. ADlay. he a

Asst. Dir,:

Adm. Serys.-

Crim. Inv. -

Loreton wil

Rec. s

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

magmie

2/28/94

ПЕК)

VD

DATE: 4-18:-78

D. Ryan

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

1 - Mx. Bassett

1 - Mr. Cregar

1 - Mx. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Steinbeck

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

PURPOSE: To report results of a special briefing held for Mr. G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, on 4-12-78, in the Director's -

Office.

DETAILS: On 3-23-78, Mr. Robert Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Special Counsel to the Attorney General for

matters relating to captioned Committee, advised that the staff of the

HSCA had asked, because of numerous excisions in material received from

Stokes, Chairman of the HSCA; and Samuel L. Devine, Ranking Minority,

I was subsequently decided to brief only No. Blakey, who indicaded

that such might preclude necessity of briefing the two Congressmen.

On 4-12-78, at 11:30 a.m., this briefing was held in the

Director's Office.

Attending were:

the Director; Mr. Adams; Mr. Blakey;

W. O. Cregar and M. J. Steinbeck of the Intelligence Division; D. 0.

Coulson, Legal Counsel Division; and J. I. Aldhizer, Records Management

Division. (U)

SA Aldhizer showed exar. 's of Department and FBI documents

which had been provided the HSCAnd had contained excised information

from our sensitive inf nant operation (Solo) in the King and Stanley David

Levison investigations Purpose was to show information concerning the

investigation of King.

"Solo operation, with special emphasis on the King-Levison associationa

1

-1100-428091 (So10) (C)

REC. 56

EX-124

62-117290-6%

MAY 2 1978

CONFIDENTIAL

stress

Saved bryan 00.9

sampsta

From CDS Cabegosy

Reclassificatiou

prestige

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

55066

DocId:32989753 Page 14

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 15

eod!..

CONFIDENTIAL

Memorandum to Mr. Bassett

House Select Committee on Assassinations

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

Following the briefing, Mr. Blakey proposed several questions

concerning the operation and King. These questions were appropriately

answered. (U)

Mr. Blakey expressed satisfaction with the briefing and with

the Bureau's reasons for excising documents furnished the HSCA. He

stated the early association of King and Levison is crucial to the

HSCA's investigation. He acknowledged that the FBI had a basis to

investigate King and to install telephone surveillance of him. However,

he believed the investigation of King continued for too long a period

and information developed by the FBI concerning King was disseminated

too widely. (U)

Mr. Blakey desired that Congressmen Stokes and Devine be

furnished the same briefing at a future date. (U)

RECOMMENDATION: For information.

MIS

APPROVED:

Director

Adim. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Legal Coun.

Plan, & Insp.

lec. Mgnt

ech. Servs

Training

Public Afts. Off.

!

—-

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2 -

HH 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page 15

---

## Page 16

soo;

• i

FEDERAL GOVERNE

".

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

6

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, (HSCA)

Apr1] 7, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr.

Coulson

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.,

requested certain information from files of FBI Headquarters

and that five named Agents be made available for interview by

the HSCA.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above letter.

It is requested that

You

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures

(2)

62-117290

опасна

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv. _.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv. _

Fin. & Pers. =

Laboratory=

Legal Coun. al

Hiplan. & Inspe

1, Rec. Mgni. -

.Spec.Inv.—

Tech, Servs. -

Training _

Public Affs. Off..

Director's

5506

NOTE: Ey memorandum dated March 9, 1979, Agents mentioned

In referenced request were cleared from employment agreements

and authorized to be interviewed by the ESCA. Arrangements

for interviews are being handled informally by representatives

of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs

Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBI Headquarters.

MATED 12

APR - 7 1978

REC-56

62-112290-

689

120 MAY 3 1978

€4:124

2 are SURE

1 31: 1849

VELVIS:

CONOBЕ22"РУГ

BSC:

819/2

ROOM L

• 32989753

TELETYPE UNIT D

Page 16

ARI

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 17

• !

1 - MY. BaiLey

1 - Mr. Foster

- Legal Counsèl Division

Attn: Mr: Coulson

April 7, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to Attorney General

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King,

requested certain information from'files of FBI Headquarters

(FBIHQ) and that five named Agents be made avallable for

interview by the HSCA.

Referenced letter listed 13 organizations of

Interest to the HSCA.

Material from FBIHQ files regarding

the first 12 organizations listed (Items 1-12) was requested

panacmice

from the following areas:

Birmingham, Alabama, January-une,

1963; St. Augustine, Florida, January-June, 1964; the State

of Mississippi, March-September, 1964; the

State of Alabama,

January-June, 1965; and Chicago,

Illinois, January-March, 1966.

Regarding Item 13, the "Constitution Party," material

from FBIHQ was requested for the years 1967-1968 involving

Birmingham, Alabama; Los Angeles, California; Chicago, Illinois;

Unitin

St. Louls, Missouri; New Orleans, Louisiana; Atlanta, Georgia;

Memphis, Tennessee; and Miami, Florida.

On March 1, 1978,

HSCA staff member Lisa Berlow

advised that information needed

concerning the "Constitution Party" should be corrected

to

encompass the years 1963-1968.

It should be noted that, regarding the above

localities, St. Augustine, Florida, is covered by the

Jacksonville Office of the

FBI.

The State of Mississippi has

been covered by the Jackson Field Office since July, 1964.

Prior to that date, coverage of the state was divided between

the Memphis and New Orleans Field Offices.

The State of

Asp. AlAd. _ Alabama Is covered by the Birmingham and Möbile Field Offices.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. —_

In response to the above request, where information

Crim. Inve

was retrievable, material from files of FBIHQ concerning the

Fin. & Person.

following organizations has been processed and is available

Ident. -

for HSCA access

at FBIHQ:

Intell. _

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. =

(1) United Klans of America lul frets.

4-7-98

Rec Mgnto -

Spee. Into -

subfiles

t the UkA have been

processed

for the

Tech. Servs.-

Birmingham Field Office, January-June, 1963; the State

Public Alls. Or V

Training-

of Missis

Rp1 (Jackson, New Orleans, and Memphis Field

NO QUE SEE TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY APUFRAI,

Director's Sec'y_

55066

DocId: 32989753

Page

17

SFE NOME PAGE 4.

AP. ROBERE I KELVOOS

---

## Page 18

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. 3. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Offices) for March-September, 19643 the State of Alabama

(Birmingham and Mobile Field

Offices) for January-June

1965; and for the Chicago Field Office; January-March,

1966.

No Information was contained in the subfile for

the Jacksonville Fleld Office for the pertinent period

of HSCA interest.

(2) White Citizeng' Council (WCC)

A search of FBIHQ files disclosed no nationwide

organization of the WCO.

Therefore, since no Field

Office subfiles exist, FBIlQ Indices were searched for

and retrievable Intormation concerning the wed for the

period January, 1903, through harch, 1900.

The resulting

information, some of

which was previously provided the

HSCA In response to its request of November 3, 1977,

concerns WCC groups in Ohio during 1965; Montgomery,

Alabama, during 1965-1966; In Chicago during 1963-1965;

and three additional general file references.

(3) Minutemen

Field Office subfiles exist In the FBI's Invéstigation

of the Minutemen organization; however, the subfiles for

offices of interèst to the HSCA contain no Information for

therefore,

the main Investigative file of the Minutemen (105-107261)

for the period January, 1963,

through March, 1966,

(Sections 5-46) has been processed and is available for

HSCA access.

(4) Ilberty Lobby (LI)

The FBI conducted no active Investigation of the Il.

The majority of Information received at FBIlQ concerning

this group was filed in Bureau file 62-106941. A portion

of this file and pertinent references for the period of

ISCA Interest have been made available for HSCA access.

(5) Black Panther Party (BPP)

Since the BPP was not founded until 1966, no Infor-

mation concerning it exists in files

Оf ГВІН

for the

periods and localitles specified in referenced HSCA letter.'

-2-

IN 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 18

---

## Page 19

=.

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

(6) Black, Muslims (Nation of Islam) (NOI)

Subfiles of the NOI have been processed for the

Birmingham Fleld Office, January-June, 1963; the

Jacksonville Field Office, January-June, 1964; the State

of MississippI (New Orleans and Memphis

Field Offices)

from March-September, 1964, the State of Alabama

(Birmingham and Mobile Field Offices) from January-June,

1965.

No NOI subfile exists for the Chicago Fleld Office

since It was office of origin In the NOI investigation.

Therefore, the main NOI file (25-33097]) for the period

January, 1963, through March, 1966 (Sections 161-192) has

seen procéssed and 1s avallable for asca access.

(7) American Naz1 Party (National Socialist White

Peoples' Party)

This investigation was not divided into Fleld Office

subfiles at FBIHQ.

Therefore, the entire main file

105-(03(4) 10n the period January, 1903, through narcn.

1966, (Sections 38-84) has been processed for HSCA access.

(8) The Sword

FIles Of FBIH@ contain no Identifiable Information

concerning this organtzation for the period of HSCA

Interest (January, 1963, through March, 1966).

(9) The Flery Cross

On March 1, 1978, HSCA staff member Lisa BerlOw

modified referenced request by advising that it was not

necessary to provide any information concerning The Fiery

(10) The White Camella

Files of FBIIQ contain no identifiable Information

concerning this organization for the period of AsCA

Interest (January, 1963, through March, 1966).

(1]) The Silver Dollar Group

A11 retrievable information in files of FBIHO con~

cerning this group for the period of HSCA interest has

been processed and is available for review.

=3-

HW

55066

DocId: 32989753 Page 19

---

## Page 20

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

(12) Forever White

FIleS of FBIHQ contain no identifiable Information

concerning this organization.

(13) ConstItution Party (Constitution Party of the U. S.)

A11 retrievable information in the files of FBIHQ

concerning this organization during the pertinent period

of HSCA Interest has been processed and 1s available for

review.

Regarding the above, where Information is not being

furnished, It is either not retrievable or 1s not being

produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

Referenced letter requested the FBI prepare for

delivery all reports pertaining to the special investigation

Into racial bombings in the Birmingham, Alabama, area during

the approximate period of 1963. On March 14, 1978, Michael

Eberhardt, HSCA Staff Attorney,

advised that

this portion of

the request of February 28, 1978, could be disregarded because

the HSCA, by letter dated March 3, 1978, resubmitted 1ts

request for information concerning racial bombings.

This letter is also to confirm that agents named

in referenced request have been released from their employmont

agreements and are available for interview as needed by the

HSCA.

Arrangements

for interview can be made through contact

with representatives of the Legal Liaison and Congressional

Affairs Unit and Congressional Inguiry Unit of FBIHQ.

r7173n0

NOTE:

for nineto MeT; letten to racistant

Attenner renagal

Tivition

ittention.

1079

Palent to trick.

anatinner?

WH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 20

---

## Page 21

06404

че сняч.

06) I5-16

ReClu 2/28/18 10:07c

Eclect Committee on Er

sinatians

8.5s. House of sepreseniallets

DEX HOUTE OMNICE MUTLOTS, ARRESTE

MASHIMOTOM, DE. S0388

FEB 2 8 1978

HAND DELIVERed by

Wendy Callin

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

• Washington, D.C. 20530

attention:

Mi. Robert I. Reuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113 •

Dear Mr: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances and death of DI. Martin Luther King,

Tri, it is requested that the Federal Bureau of Investigation

make available all materials, records and files on the

following groups, as defined by the time periods and areas

Indicated:

1)

2

3

United Klans of Americar

# 4, 8, 10, 11112, 15 sent 55 2u 4:0E

-White Citizens' Council

Minutemen

Liberty Lobby

5

Black Panthers

6

Black Muslims V

7)

American Nazi Party

8)

9}

The Sword

The Fiery Er05s

• 10)

811)

The White Camelia

The Silver Dollar Groug

• 12)

Forever White

113) Constitution Party, ala Coustonrion Aary as the U'S.

Each of the above groups, with the exception of the

Constitutior. Party, (item i13) should be prepared for access

aB SOLIONS:

TTY 55066--DurIt:32969753

Items $1 through 112 • in Birningham, Alabama -

• January - June 1963.

Itens il through 112 = in St.

Jantilry - June

1964.

¿ Augustine, Florida -

Itemp. $1 thiough $12 - in the State of Mississippi -

March - September 1964.

710164

Wise a 119 210 689

21

---

## Page 22

The Honorable Griftin B. Belt

Page TWO

3

preters w/lennie

MUSILE-BH

Items i1 through 312 - in the state of Alabama

January - June 1965.

Items 11 through 112 - in Chicago, Illinois • January":

Hatch 1966.

1663

• Item 413. (1987 through 1968) in:

Birmingham, Alabama

Los Angeles, California

Chicago, Illinois

St. LouiB, Missouri

New Orleans, Louisiana

Atlanta, Georgia

Hemphis, Tennessee

Miami, Florida

Additionally, it is requested that the Bureau prepare

for delivery on a priority basis:

All reports pertaining to the special Investigation

into racial bombing in the Birmingham, Alabama area.

The Investigations were headed by Inspector Roy Moore,

clIca 1963.

Finally, it is requested that the following agents be

nade avallable for

Interviens:

607

Leonard C. Peterson-sit. D.7)-

«l Prancis J. McCarron Creakdown - senile; Reti

John Lee Dawson Fire -alcohola-

James W. Sammon next wis. 13-1?

Vincent T. R. Stacey Resi Giate - Me Carolin

(All of the above were apparently assigned to the

Miami Pield Office In the early 60's).

Your prompt attention to these matters' is appreciated.

very truly yours,

82.

Aber Blakey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and DirectoI

GRB: ghj

Danny O. Coulson

HH 55066

DooId: 32989753

Page

22

---

## Page 23

Cx

Assistant Attorney General

April 6, 1978

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Director, FBI

(Attn: D. O. Coulson)

1 - Mr. W. I.

Eailey

C. J. Foster

ROUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS 1 Ip J. I. Aldhizer

T. S. HOUSE OF REFREEVES (ASCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chier counsel and Director, MuCA, dateo

January 30, 1978, which, in connection with HSCA's investi-

gation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.,

requested access to certain information at FBI Headquarters.

Reference is also made to undated letter to the Attorney General

from Mr. Blakey, which requested delivery of the material in

the letter of January 30, 1978.

• Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

to complete the response to the above request.

It is requested

that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the

HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

JIST: /m (7)

62-117290

NOTE:

The ESCA has been advised that material involving FBI

Legats in the King and Southern Christian Leadership Conference

(SCLC) files is not being delivered and an access folder

containing these

serials is maintained at FBI Feadquarters.

The entire SCLC file for the period specified has

been delivered and this completes the HSCA request of

As. ADAd. _January 30, 1978, and the undated

letter which requeste

Dep. ADIrv._delivery.

Dir.:

REC-56

62-117290

Crim. liv. SM t

Fin. & Pers. -.

22 MAY

8 1978

EX-124

EC,i. Laboratory -

Legal' Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Rec Mgnt. _

Spec. Inv. -

Tech, Sorus. /

Training -

Public Affs. O

Telepipep

Directgr

55066

MAILED

ALL I:

*, 0x7

add die davin

DIl2118154

подкасра.

TELETYPE UNIT G

Dad Id: 32989953 P

Page 23

Counson.

Run 3657

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 24

i..

1 - Legal Counsel

Division (Attn: D. 0. Coulson)

1 - Mr. M. I. Bailey

1

- Mr. 4.

J. Hoster

1 - Mr. J. T. Aldhizer

April 6, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 30, 1978, which, in connection with HSCA's invest1~

gation into the

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.,

requested access to certain information at FBI Headquarters.

Reference is also made to undated letter to the Attorney

to certa

Le detonators.

General from Mr. Blakey, which requests delivery of the

material outlined in the letter of January 30, 1978.

FBI memoranda dated March 6, 1978, and March 11:

1978, confirmed partial response to above requests, a delivery

of a

copy of the entire FBI King security file for

the period

specified and a copy of the Southern Christian Leadership

This letter confirms that on March 31, 1978,

delivery of a copy of the above-mentioned SOLC Sections,

less Section 91, was made at FBIHQ to HSCA representative

Lance Svendsen.

Delivery of Section 91, at FBIHQ to HSCA

was made on April 4, 1978, by HSCA representative Mark Spelser.

With completion of the above request, a copy of

the entire SCLC file for the period specified by HSCA has

been delivered.

This completes the HSCA request of

January 30, 1978, and the undated letter which requested

delivery.

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

PFM

THN: pfm (7)

62-117290

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv. _

Fin. & Perse -

Ident. -

Intell. -

"Laboratory»

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. a

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. _

Tech. Servs.

Training-

HB

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

НН 55066 DooId:32989753

Page 24

dllT'

Мастия

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

NOTE:

see Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Röbert I. Keuch,

dated April 6, 1978, captioned as above.

62-118290

686

TELETYPE UNITO

ENCLOSURE

Co

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 25

ours

наха, слитт.

CANNELL

ПІШАТТ!

CHARLES

0002) 223-6821

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.Eo. House of Representatites

S01 MOUSLOFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 30, 1978

•*.

Comparis

Feb: 1 345PM. 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D: C. 20530

Attention: MI. Robert I. Keuch

• Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of DI. Martin Luther King, Jx., a request was

made by letter dated November 30, 1977, for FBI files relating

to DI. King. These files included the following:

1.

The main security file on Dr. Martin Iuther King,

JI., for the period January 1, 1967 through

•May 1, 1968.

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leader-

ship Conference for the period January 1, 1967

through May 1, 1968.

- Then on to santa toy so le or the

4.

The file on DI. Martin Luther King, JI./POOI

'People's March for the period December 1, 1967

through May l; 1968.

5.

All materials pertaining to Martin Luther king,

JI., and the SCLC in the COINTELPRO file.

We have been advised that all of the above files are

now available for review by the Committee.

It is now requested, however, that the foregoing files,

except for the Memphis Sanitation Strike, be prepared for Com-

mittee review for the following extended dates:

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-686

HN 55066 DooId:32989753

Page 25

---

## Page 26

The Honorable Gri

Januaty 30, 1978

Page 2

B. Bell

The main security file on DI. Martin Luther King,

JI., for the periods:

October 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

D.

May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference for the periods:

b.

October 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

May 1,. 1968 - April I, 1969

3.

The COMINFIL and COINTELPRO files as such relate

to DI. Martin Luther King, JI., for the periods:

October 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

b.

May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

The files on the Poor Peoples' March from May 1,

1968 to the closing date of this file.

Your prompt attention to these matters. will be greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

12. Nobut Blahy

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: med

CC: Danny 0. Coulson

• NH 55066 • DocId: 32989753 • Page 26 -

---

## Page 27

_:C0MS570KES, OHIO, EHA

RICHARDCÓN MMIYIR, NC.

MALTER E: TAUNTARY, DC

TVOSHI STATINATE, FURKE, CALT.

CHTISTORHIAS.DODD. COrA

MAPOLO E. FOMS, TAMM.

FLOTO S. FITHIANY, MO.

NOCZAT M. LOCAR, PA.

SAMUL

IVIMI. OMO

STCHIANIC. MCKINNEY, COPY.

CHAMLIS IHOME, DILER.

MATOLO S, SAMIR, MICH.

2-10-78°

(202) 225-6626

Kieved Offer f

Conquisional difficia

1918.

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.d. House of licpresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICI BUILDING, AAAVEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

Ashiger.

Received undAted

Committee date

of Request

2/7178

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mi. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this

Conmittee into the death of DI. Marlin Luther King, JI.,

it is requested that the FBI deliver to the Committee all

previously requested material in the Southern Christian

Leadership file, the King security file and the COINTELPRO

file as such pertains to Dr. King. (See our prior requests

dated November 30, 1977 and January 30, 1978) .

It is also requested that the Department of Justice

deliver to the Committee those materials referred to as

"some Department (as opposed to FBI) files relating to Dr.

King" on page 3 of the Department's Task Force Report to

• • Review the FBI Martin Luther King, JI. Securily and Assas-

sination Investigations.

Sincerely,

I lobiat Blaky

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: me j

cc: MI. Danny 0. Coulson

62-117290-686

ENCLOSURE.

NW 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 22

---

## Page 28

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

F BI

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

A irtel

PRECEDENCE:

[ Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

O SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

O CLEAR

Date

4/5/78

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.:_

Pep. AD Inv.

Afs*. Dir.:

1aan. Cory.

Crim. Inv.

TO

1LA5-8-0-97999

Leman.

Pian, " they.

339. 11.7t.

Tech. servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

:DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

(ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION)

9,88

FROM

SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-5097) (RUC)

: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

10°

Re Bureau teletype to St. Louis 3/31/78.

St. Louis telcall to Bureau 4/5/78.

A review of the St. Louis Murkin file (SL 44-775)

revealed that all information re financial and/or bank

records pertaining to JERRY RAYNES was forwarded to the

Bureau in St. Louis reports of SA HAROLD R. DOBSON dated

5/10/68 and 6/25/68.

On 4/5/78, SA TRON W. BREKKE, Congressional Inquiry

Unit, Records Management Division, telephonically advised

that since requested information was already at the Bureau

it would not be necessary for St. Louis to forward duplicate

material.

(S 103

tos 62-117290-6841

12

MAY 8Z 1978

Bureau

1 - st. Louis

GPW : mt

(3)

/- CIU In. 8988

ROUTING UNBE

- ERROR LEIBOB SENT

Approved:

5/22178

HW 55066

Doctd: 12989753 Page 28

Doc@AsS. REV.

Артактич

Transmitted -

(Number)

(Time)

Per _

GPO: 1977 0 - 225-539

---

## Page 29

St6088 0822230

"Aoser, pir.

Desce dom.

DE SL

23 MAR MAR7C 22

3,?

RECEIYED

FECERAL BUREAU

OF INVISTIGATION

COMMUNICATIRNS SECTION

=*=-

P 232222Z MAR

: 78

FM SI. LOUIS (62-5897)

CA TO DÍRECIOR (62-117298) PRIORITY

1ran7

BT/

UNCLAS E FIO

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL. INQUIRY UNII, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

REBUTEL CALL TO ST. LOUIS, MARCH 23, 1978; ST. LOUIS TEL. TO

BUREAU, DECEMBER 22, 1975, CAPTIONED "SL

137-42744- 5567-PC; TECIP"; ST. LOUIS

LETTER 7- 42785-43 MARCH 31, 1976; ST. LOUIS LETTER TO BUREAU, JULY

137-42744-4

i .

29, 1976; ST. LUUIS LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 22, 1976.

SL 3567-PC OPENED OCTOBER 3, 1975, AS PCI. ON OCTOBER 30,

1975, INFORMANT PROVIDED INFORMATION ON FOLLOWING CASES:

"UNSUB; IHEFI OF 68 CASES OF CIGARETTES, JUNE 8, 1975; IFIS;

SI. LOUIS FILE 15-13872 COLOSED-TIUNSUE; BURGLARY OF RESIDENCE

OF MRS. KING; ITSP; ST. LOUIS FILE 87-21548 (CLOSED)"; "RICHARD

O'HARA; ITSP; ST. LOUIS FILE 87-23087

00-114290-

COLOSED "PAY CORE

BENJAMIN GOINS; AR - HOBBS ACT; MF;

ST: LOUIS FILE 92-2104

(PENDING) "•

JUL 26 1973

57 AUG 151978;

NH 55066 DocId: 32989753

spinance

Page 29

---

## Page 30

o. a

PAGE TWO SL 62-5097 UNCLAS EF TO

ON DECEMBER 17, 1975, INFORMANT PROVIDED INFORMATION ON

IHE FOLLOWING CASES: "ST. LOUIS AREA CRIME CONDITIONS; ST. LOUIS

FILE 92-702"; "RAY SCHARF; ET AL; RICO; ST. LOUIS FILE 92-2184

(PENDING)"; "JOHNNY TOLIVER; AR - HOBBS ACT; ST. LOUIS FILE

92-2828 (CLOSED)".

ON FEBRUARY 11, 1975, HE PROVIDED INFORMATION ON THE FOLLOWING:

"RAY SCHARF; ET AL; RICO; ST. LOUIS FILE 92-2104 (PENDING)".

ON MARCH 8, 1976, HE PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING: "RAY SCHARF;

ET AL; RICO; ST. LOUIS FILE 92-2104 (PENDING)"; NORMAN OWENS, AKA;

ET AL; IISP - MAJOR THEFT; CONSPIRACY; RICO; ST. LOUIS FILE

87-23091 (PENDING) " •

ON MARCH 26, 1976, AND JUNE 29, 1976, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

PROVIDED REGARDING RAY SCHARF; ET AL; RICO.

INFORMANI CLOSED BY LETTER TO BUREAU, NOVEMBER 22, 1976.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

COPY OF PREVIOUSLY SET FORTH MEMORANDUM DATED MARCH 19, 1974,

IS SHOWN IN INFORMANI FILE VIA CORRELATION MEMO DATED OCTOBER 7,

1975. INFORMANT FILE REVIEWED MARCH 16, 1976, BY INSPECIION STAFF.

BT

NH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 30

---

## Page 31

58

JENNERLE GOPAR

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: D. 0. Coulson)

1 = ME: E: I:

Bailey

- Mr.

Foster

March 17, 1978

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

An,122

to letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director;

dated January 30, 1978, which, in connection with

ESCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther

King, UI., requested access to certain information at FBI

Headquärters.

Reference is also made to undated letter

to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey, which requested

delivery of the material outlined in the letter of

January 30, 1978.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo-

randum in partial response to the above request.

It is

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memo-

randum to the HSCA.

EnCLosures - 2

ALL 1.-.

Hia do banda

DILEJ0S-8u

NOTE

Regarding COINTELPRO files, the Communist Party,

USA (CPUSA), COINTELPRO file was not reviewed for

material pertaining

FBI Headquarters a thorough review of COINTELPRO files.

summarles of all actions were prepared in order to respon

Assoc, Dir.— tO Department and Congressional inquirles about the scope

Dep. AD Ad and depth of the programs:

Dep. AD Inv. -

Therefore, serials in this file

Asst. Dir.:

pertaining to King and SCLC have already been identified.

Adm. Sev. These serials, approximately 15 in number from 1962-68

cim lv. have been processed for the HSCA (100-3-104) 62-117292 -

674

1005-1065 62-1224 - 102!

Intell..

TREC-56

Laboratory -

CONTINUED

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

ZENCLOSURE

PAGE 2

20 MAY

3 1978

Rea Mgnt. -=

Spec. Inv.

Tech. Serv's. _

Training-

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm..

Tolerans Bey R

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT O

FBI/DO

Page 31

---

## Page 32

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

The Black Nationalist-Hate Groups COINTELPRO

against King and the SCLC have been processed for

HSCA access.

The HSCA has been advised that material involving

FBI Legats in the King and SCLC files is not being delivered

and an access, folder containing these serials is maintained

at FBI Headquarters.

Remaining sections in the SCLC file will be

processed and later delivered to HSCA, at which time

response to the request of 1/30/78 will be completed.

ive ed 007

- 2 -

HH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page

32

---

## Page 33

1 - Legal

sounsel Division

(Attn: D. 0..

Coulson)

1 - Mr.

W. L.

Bailey

_ - ME.

G. J.

Foster

March 17, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Referencé is made to letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

ESCA, ane Laguary into The assass in con of Man in Luther

King, JI., requested access to certain information at FBI

Headquarters (FBIHQ). Reference is also, made to undated

letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey, which

requested delivery of the material outlined in

the letter

of January 30, 1978.

FBI memorandum dated March 6, 1978, confirmed,

in partial response to the above requests, a delivery of a

copy of the FBI security file on Martin Luther King, Jx.,

100-106670, Sections 1 and 2 (JUNE), and 100-106670,

Sections 1

through 86, less Sections 63, 64 and 65, which

were being processed.

This letter confirms that on March &, 1978, one

copy of the above-mentioned Sections 63,

64 and 65 of the

King security investigation was delivered at FBIHQ to HSCA

representative Peter Beeson.

Concerning the Ring security file, it is noted

that a number of serials were charged out of this file and,

2

based on the sensitivity involved, were stored in a file

!

cabinet in the office of Joseph G. Deegan, Room 4092 of

the J. Edgar Hoover Building.

Following Mr. Deegan's

retirement and a reorganization at FBIHQ, this cabinet is

now. located in Room 4084 of the j. Edgar

Hoover Building.

One copy of each serial charged out of the King security

file and placed in this cabinet has been processed and

Assoc. Dir. was delivered to HSCA representative Gerald Hamilton on

Dep. AD Ad. March 15, 1978, at EBIHQ:.

These serials are as follows:

Dep. ADIn. 100-106670-414; -517; -522; -529; -1024; -1975; -1980;

Adm, Ser. =3559; unrecorded serial, Las Vegas airtel to the Bureau

Crim. Inv. — dated

May 25, 1964, captioned "CPUSA - Negro Question,

Fin, & Pers Communist Influence in Racial Matters; Martin Luther King,

vel._ Jr., SM - C"; and unrecorded serial, Baumgardner to Sullivan

Legal Coun

Ple I ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAI.,

Spoc. Inv. — CRIMINAL DIVISIONI

Tech. Servs. —

/ ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

Training -

ENCLOSURE

SEE NOTE PAGE 3

Telephone Rm. -+

Director's Sec'y=

(6 )AIL ROOM

HH 55066 DooId:32989753 Page 33

88 at

TELETYPE WANT 62-117-290-4079

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 34

House Select Committce on Assassinations

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

memorandum dated June 1, 1964, captioned "CPUSA - Negro

Question, Communist Influence in Racial Matters - Internal

Security - Communist."

With completion of the above, a copy of the

entire FBI King security file for the period specified by

the HSCA has been delivered.

Among other items, referenced letters Icquested

delivery of the FBI main security file concerning the

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) for the

February 3, 1978, by HSCA staff attorney Michael Eberhardt,

who also requested delivery of the SCLC security file to

include the period January 1, 1961, to April 30, 1900.

Elles covering this latter period werc previously processed

for HSCA access pursuant to letter to the Attorney General

from lix, Blakey dated November 30, 1977.

This letter is also to confiru that on March 14,

partial delivery of a copy of the SCLO file was made

at FBIHQ to ESCA representative Oliver Champion,

A copy

of each of the following sections was delivered:

100-438794, Section 1 (JUNE); and 100-438734; Sections 1

chrough 95,

less Sections 4, 35, 56, 57, 64, 65, 68 through

31, 83, and 87 through 94.

The remaining sections are

being processed, and upon completion will be delivered to

the HSCA.

keterenced Letter oI January 3u, 19/0, requeste

delivery of "COMINFIL and COINTELPRO"'

files relating to

to December 31, 1966,

reference to COMINFIL and to limit COINTELPRO information

to programs involving the CPUSA and Black Nationalist-Hate

Groups.

Hir. Eberhardt also requested delivery of

COINTELPRO information involving King and SCLC for the

period January 1, 1967, to April 30, 1968, which had previ-

ously been prepared for HSCA access

in response to HSCA

letter of Növember 30, 1977.

-2.

HH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 34

---

## Page 35

House Select Committee on Assassinations

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

1962, to April 1, 1969, was delivered at FBIHQ to HSCA

representative Gerald Hamilton.

on february 6, 1910, Mx. Eberhardt advised that

he FBI could disregard the HSCA request in referencei

letter for files concerning the "Poor Peoples' March'

from May 1, 1963, to the closing date

of that file.

NOTE: See letter to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch,

dated

3/17/78, captioned as above.

- 3 -

| HH 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page

35

---

## Page 36

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYEH, N.C.

SAMUELL.

HALTER E. TAUNTROY, D.G

VONNE AR: INSATIC BURKE, CALIF

CHRISTOPHER i. DODD, CONNI,

HAROLD E. FORD, FINN.

FLOYD S. FITHIAN, INO.

ПОЧЕПТ І,халА, ка.

S. DHIO

LINNEY..COMY.

CHARLES THONE, NEOR.

MAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4524

Ricinch. Office

Cecional Aggain.

Reb. 1. 305pm 1978

elchiger

Select Committee on Assassinations

d.S. House of tiepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 30, 1978

Letter 10 Asst AG,

WENC LHM

STA:

CRIM DIV

3-17-78

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice.

Washington, D. C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

• Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113 •

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., a request was

made by letter dated November 30, 1977, for FBI files relating

to Dr. King. These files included the following:

1.

The main security file on DI. Martin Luther King;

JI., for the period January 1, 1967 through

May 1, 1968.

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leader-

ship Conference for the period January 1, 1967

through May 1, 1968.

3. The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968 through May I, 1968.

4.

The file on Dr. Martin Luther King, JI:/POOr

'People's March for the period Décember 1, 1967

through May 1, 1968.

5. All materials pertaining to Martin Luther King,

JI., and the SCLC in the COINTELPRO file.

We have been advised that all of the above files are

now available for review by the Committee.

It is now requested, however, that the foregoing files,

except for the Memphis Sanitation Strike, be prepared for Com-

mittee review for the following extended dates:

62-11:2290-6719

HH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page,

36'

---

## Page 37

The Honorable Gritfin B. Bell

January 30, 1978

Page 2

The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI., for the periods:

October 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969.

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference for the periods:

October 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

b.

MaY 1, 1968

- April I, 1969

3.

The COMINFIL and COINTELPRO files as such relate

to DI. Martin Luther King, JI., for the periods:

a..

D.

october 1, 1962 - December 31, 1966

May 1, 1968 - April 1, 1969

4.

The files on the Poor Peoples' March from May I..

1968 to the closing date of this file.

Your prompt attention to these matters. will be greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

r. Повит Blaby.

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: med

Cc: Danny 0. Coulson.

15066--10011:22

---

## Page 38

s* =

= 8

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via.

Co

FBI

Date:

5/1/78

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Precedence)

L

TO :

FROM:

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN :

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-7841)

COBRA; FREE RIGHT;

& HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) INNUIRY

- 65÷

ReButel to Los Angeles, 4/24/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau is one (1) copy each of

serials from various files which may be identical to captioned

subject.

In addition to enclosed serials, Los Angeles

shows a reference to COBRA as being used as an alias by

NANCY LAURA PITMAN, DOB 1/1/51, FBI 853071G, a member of

the CHARLES MANSON

Family.

??,?

BH10S. E70 62-117290 - 671

• орітнерке

ENCLOSURE

MAY 4 1978

Bureau (EncI's) (AM) (RM)

2-Los Angeles /- C/U

DAB: ism

Kith

detached a

HISCH

elatind in

xcuest file 4.13.18

9453 0 3 ad

4 Payod: € 1070 Special As in Chate

Sent -

_M Per -

5066

DocId: 32989753

Pare 38

---

## Page 39

FD-36 (Revla

127-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

[ Teletype

Facsimile

& Airtel

FBI

ST

NT

Approved:

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

DJ TOP SECRET

I SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

D CLEAR

Date

4/14/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

CATTN :

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION)

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (66-2242)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

BUDED 4/14/78

Re Bureau teletype to Atlanta, 41917599

Enclosed for the Bureau is one xerox copy

each of 19 documents, plus one envelope of latent

prints, which were taken from the Atlanta MURKIN file

as requested by FBIHQ in referenced teletype.

Referenced teletype indicated that the SCA

had requested that the FBI furnish "all original

transparent latent lifts of value and of no value in

the possession of FBIHQ or field offices which were

collected during the course of the MURKIN investigation".

IBine has pulled photographs of all latents of value

submitted by fleld of a fron the FBINO wuRKIN I

The Bureau requested Atlanta

review its

MURKIN file for any latent fingerprint lifts obtained

during the course of the MURKIN investigation and if

feasible, submit photographs of those lifts. If not,

the actual lifts were to be submitted to FBIHQ, which

would be returned to Atlanta after copying by FBIQ.

Atlanta reviewed the 1A Section of Atlanta's MURKIN

file (44-2386) as well as the bulkyexhibit sheets and

noted there were 124 lA exhibits and five bulky

exhibit sheets.

Only four lA envelopes and one bulky

exhibit pertained to latent fingerprints obtained during

the course of the Atlanta MURKIN investigation and all of

these were previously sent to FBIHQ in 1968. Only me

one of these Atlanta a exhibit envelopes currently

Bureau

Atlanta

15 ENCLOSURE I1805.

28 APR 1'7 1978

"ENCLOSURE INTACHED"

(1-44-2386)

EAS: Sr

(4)

(1- 66-2242)

Transmitted

(Time)

Per

DOC.

iSS°

HH 55066

32989753

---

## Page 40

this

AT 66-2242

These lA exhibits and the one bulky exhibit

are set forth below:

1) 44-2386-1A-42

This lA envelope noted that this had

contained latents recovered from the right and left

sent to the Bureau by

were no latent fingerprint lifts in this lA envelope.

A xerox copy of this lA envelope, the

4/10/60, and FBIHQ airtel to

atlantan mi2/68, cean these restate

fingerprint lifts are enclosed for FBIHQ.

2) 44-2386-1A-84

This lA envelope noted that this had contained

12 unidentified latent fingerprints received on 5/1/68,

from the Gwinnett County Police Department, Lawrenceville,

Georgia, and were to be returned to this police department:

These latent fingerprints were sent to FBIHQ on 5/2/68.

There were no latent prints in this lA envelope.

A xerox copy of this lA envelope, an Atlanta

airtel of 5/2/68, transmitting these prints and a Bureau

airtel of 5/8/68, with the

results of the examination

are enclosed for

FBIHQ.

3) 44-2386-1A-90

This lA envelope noted that this had contained

Police Department on 5/3/60

the Identification Division on 5/13/68, by Atlanta. There

were no latent fingerprint lifts in this lA envelope.

A xerox copy of this lA envelope, and the

Atlanta aïrtel of 5/13/68, to the Identification Division

are enclosed.

-2-

HH 55066

DocId: 32989753 Page 40

---

## Page 41

AT 66-2242

4) 44-2386-11-98

This lA envelope noted that it contained

18 lifts and seven negatives of latent fingerprint

impressions from the files of the Rome, Georgia, Police

Department which had been returned by FBIHQ.

These

were the same latants as in item 3 above (44-2386-90), but

were entered in the lA Section as a new item and showed

18 latents rather than 15.

A xerox copy of this lA envelope, a copy of the

FBIHQ airtel to Atlanta, 5/21/78, relative to these

latents, and an envelope containing all these latent

• prints is enclosed for FBIHQ.

5) 44-2386-1B-2

This bulky exhibit sheet dated 4/15/78, listed

10 Items obtained from JIMMY GARNER, 113-14th Street,

were latent 11151.8, and it showed that items 9 and lo

There was a notation on this bulky

exhibit sheet

that these items had been sent to FBIHQ

on 4/15/68.

xerox copy of this bulky exhibit sheet, an

4/16/68,

are enclosed for FBIHQ.

- 3*-

HW 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 41

---

## Page 42

HH 55066

DooId:32989753 Page

62-117290-673

---

## Page 43

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

ENCLOSURES:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

(ATTN :

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY

UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT.

DIVISION)

SAC, ATLANTA (66-2242)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (NSCA)

BUDED 4/14/78

Enclosed for the Bureau

is one xerox copy of

15 documents, plus one

envelope of latent

prints.

15

1S/8l

SPinacynte

ENCLOSURE

+12000 -673

MH 55066 Docid: 32989753_ Page A3

---

## Page 44

FD-340 (REV. 6-24-65)

2386

- 1 A 98

File No.

* Date Received

From

• 5/22/68

BUREAU:

(NAME. OF CONTRIBUTOR)

(ÄDDRESS OF CONTRIBUTOR)

(CITY AND STATE)

By.

(NAME OF SPECIAL AGENT)

To.Be Returned • Yes

Receipt given

• Yes

Description:

18 lifts and seven negatives of

latent si impressions from the files

'of the Rome, Georgia, Police

Department.

Зість рітасткі

HH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 44

---

## Page 45

...st

0-9 (Re

FBI

Date: 5-21-68

Transmit the following in

Via

Airtel

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

To:

From:

MURKIN

SAC'S, Atlanta (44-2386)

- Enc. (29)

Memphis (44-1987)

Director, FBI (44-38861)

Re Atlanta letter 5-13-68, submitting eighteen

lifts and seven negatives of latent impressions from the files

of Rome, Georgia, Police Department for examination.

Latent fingerprints appearing on these lifts and

in the negatives are not identical with the fingerprints of James

Earl Ray, FBI #405942G. No palm prints Identification Division

files for Ray.

The lifts, negatives, and four identifying envelopes

enclosed to Atlanta. No photographic copies of the latent prints

were prepared for Bufiles.

1-15.80

ортасткие

44-230671936

52:.030

said chad

HH 55066

DocId: 32989753 Page 45

---

## Page 46

—Tha

FD-940 (REV. 6-24-65)

File No.

44-2386-1A9D

Date Received

5/3/65

Fallent

Ray fallent pron

Kay. 17

ere

lESs oF coRt

(CITY AND STATE)

NAME OF SPECIAL AGEN'

To Be Returned

o Yes

• No

Receipt given [] Yes

LY NO

Description:

15 lift. Jangeron,

2-i5-80

Spin «emia

ildent

"5T13% led

НН 55066 DooId:32989753

Page 46

---

## Page 47

•is.

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861)

5/13/68

Attn:

IdentifIcation Division

Iatent FIngerprint Section

SAC, ATLANTA (44-2386) (P)

MURKIN

(00: MEMPHIS)

Enclosed for the Latent Fingerprint Section are

15 unidentified latent fingerprint lifts developed bi

the Rome, Georgia, Police Department In their orime scene

Investigations subsequent to the time of JAMES EARL RAY'S

escape from prison.

It is requested that any identifiable latents

contained on the lifts be compared with the available

fingerprints of JAMES EARL RAY, I.O. #4182.

The lifts should be returned to the- Atlanta upon

completion of examination for return to the Rome Police

Department.

2 - Bureau (Enc. 15) (RM)

2

- Memphis

iN: 160

Atlanta

HH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 47

141-2386-1849

---

## Page 48

FD-940(REV,0-24-05)

File No.

44-2386-484

Date Received_

5/1/68

From

twinnett lo. 1. 1

JAME OF CONTRIBUTOI

aurencemile, se

DDRESS OF CONTRIBUTOI

(CITY AND ST

Navin

(NAME OF SPECIAL AGENT)

To Be Returned

Yes

No

Receipt given

• Yes

I NO

Description:

19 Unidentified Latent turger

prints

TO BE RETURNED TO

GWiNNETT CO. P.P.

1- 18184

Дружастке

HN 55066

. DocId: 32989753

Page 48

---

## Page 49

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861)

5/2/68

ATTN:

LATENT FINGERFRINT SECTION

SAC, ATLANTA (44-2386) (P)

MURKIN

(00: MEMPHIS)

Ro Bureau teletype to Atlanta, 4/29/68.

Enclosed for the Latent Fingerprint Section are

19 3 & 5 cards with unidentilied latent Lingerprints. These

cards aro iron the Gwinnert County Police Department

Lavronceville, Georgia, which started such a file just a

few months ago.

The Intent Fingorprint Section is requested to

compare the enclosed prints with those oi subject, tAlES

SARA HAL (1.O. MELON) aRO then LOCULA thO pIlntS tO AtLaNta

so they can

bo returned to the Gwinnett County Polico

Department!

- Bureau (ERc. 19) (RH).

- Atlanta

ON YELLOW COPY ONLY

on 5/1/68, Sheriff HOKE HUSTON, Gwinnett Co. SO, advised he did

not have

an unidentified latent fingerprint file

#pamagan

4-2386<1561

1H 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 49

---

## Page 50

O-j (Rov. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

5/8/68

Transmit the following in

Via

Airtel

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

To: SAC's Atlanta (44-2386) - Enclosures (19)

Memphis (44-1987)

/ From: Director, FBI (44-38861)

MURKIN

Re Atlanta letter 5/2/68, submitting nineteen cards

bearing forty-one transparent lifts of latent impressions from the

files of the Gwinnett County Police Department, Lawrenceville,

Georgia, for examination.

The latent impressions appearing on these lifts

are not identical with the fingerprints of James Earl Ray, FBI

#405942G.

The cards bearing the lifts are enclosed to Atlanta.

These latent prints have not been photographed.

Придти.

44-2386

-1815

JEANONED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

_FILED.

FLATLANTA

ATLANTA

IW 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 50

---

## Page 51

FD-940 (REV. 6-24-85)

file No.

Date Received

44-2386-11142

4-17-68

From.

(NAME OF CONTRIBUTOR

(ADDRESS OF CONTRIBUTOR)

By —

(CITY AND STATE)

impoo

(NAME OF SPECIAL AGENT)

To Be Returned

Yes

Receipt given D Yes

No

No

Description:

Latents recaneral

from rEy left

arm rests of

66 mustan

7,417-687

sent to Bw 4418168 1y

aider, era

55066, DooId: 32989753

Page 51

---

## Page 52

4/18/68

AIRTEL

=.:

...

AIRUAIT,

:""

..:.

"..

:*"

TO:

DIRECIOR, EBI

(44-32361)

• ATIS;

LATENT

FINGERDRINT SECTION

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (14-2336) (P)

SUBJECT; IJURKII

00: Hanрa2я

On 4/17/68 an additional examination was

nado of 1905 Lusinng in this case.

The lord and right aza rosts varo removod

and latonto sero racoverad as 20110-3:

Two latonia 2202 right arm z0st

Il is noted that this vohiola has been

examinod at least threa podor tines and dusted for

Intoni pilote, consequently, latonis socoverod

1/37/03 may not ba significant and could bo of

Buroad poisonnel.

Neverthaless,

it is raquested latents

enclosad be

coupared with previous latonts furnished

Bureau in this caso.

Bureau personnol handling the many oxonibations

of this car aro:

3-Dureau (DRo. 5) (RUl)

C-islanta

J38/sja

(5) 72

Sab

1 44-2388-663

•1-13.80

HM 55066 -DocLd:32989753 Pade 52

---

## Page 53

AT 41-2386

• .

SA ALDEN I, MILLOR, SA JACK T. BEVERSTEIN,

SA RICHARD I. DAVIS, SÀ JACK B. SIPSON,

SA CARL E.

CLAIECRIT, and Autozotive Hochanic DUAND C. PRISTOIT, JE.

i: :

•".?

winnis

...na

..:.

• n=

...

."":

2÷

t::

....

1Н 55066 D00Id:32989753

Page 59

1599579

---

## Page 54

o 9(99-5-22054)

)

FBI

Date: 4-22-68

Transmit the following in

Via

Airtel

(T'ype in plaintexi or code)

(Priority)

To:

J From:

MURKIN

SAC'S, Atlanta (44-2386)

Memphis (44-1987)

Director, FBI (44-38861)

Re Atlanta airtel 4-18-68, submitting five trans-

parent lifts from '66 Mustang.

Latent impressions on these lifts lack sufficient

ridge detail to be of value for identification purposes.

The lifts are being retained temporarily in the

Latent Fingerprint Section.

"D"

-1033

ALL DECTUTTOT COLTIRED

SEARCHED

-INDEXES

SERIALIZED

_FILED...

APR 2 3 1968

FBI-ATLANTA

Sent Vịa

WH 55066, DocId: 32989753

Page 54

_M Per _

---

## Page 55

:

"З..

FD-302 (Re. 1-15-611

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

April 22, 1968

The following items were personally taken via commercial

airline to Washington, D. .C., FBI Laboratory, and turned over to

SAM CLARK, Hair and Fibre Section of this Laboratory, on April 15,

1968, by SA JOHN B. REYNOLDS:

I. Bed linen

2. Three (3) cigarette butts

3. Olty street map of Atlanta, book of paper

matches and lined piece of paper

4.

Newspaper utilized for shelf cover in wardrobe

5. Pink slip of paper with name "JIMMY OWEN"

written thereon

6. Keyhole saw on top of wardrobe

7. Cigarette butt

8.

Section of newspaper dated April 7, 1958

9. Latent lifts numbered one through twelve

10. Latent lifts numbered Al through A3

.1-5588

: Spamacme

On

4/15/68

_at

HW 55066 DocId

332989753

Atlánta, Georgia

_File #

Atlanta 44-2386-/710

12

1170169

---

## Page 56

Bulky Exhibir - Inventory of Propore Acquired as Evidence

FD-192 (Rcv.

10-6-65)

Date'-

- 4/15/13

Title and Character of Case

Musket

Date Property Acquired

Source From Which Property Acquired

4/15/5

Location of Property or Bulky Exhibit

Reason for Retention of Property and Efforts Made to Dispose of Same

Five TeMuzine 4/15

EvIDENCE

Description of Property Or Exhibit and Identity of Agent Submitting Same

1) BED LiviaN

r. Repairs

3) By Siren Perp, March i o Lival Pics a Paper - C7 Mies

5) Pire Step 2 per Litt Man Genera da 7 lusts

go Latsut lists numbered 1-12.

10 -

..

"Dent toe

by Agent

-4115108

SEMANNUAL INVENTORY CERTIFICATIÓN TO JUSTIFY RETENTION OF PROPERTY (initial and Date!

Field Files 4-2351-1821

HH 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 56

---

## Page 57

hi,.

DILLOTOG, FEE

A22X: VLL LABORONT

SAC, ATLANDA (CA-0350) D

3/15/6S

Teanettod under coperato cover for tre. 201

Intoritory is bhe soiloudes cussengs.

This tas rocovered

148 g

Acienta, Car.

2n6 2001,9g

vas Durince, ly merg Join 3. beynolds end aldon Eo tiller.

18-Da Itsen

trea (p) cigezette butto

3

• Cry etroot nap on

atlanto, bool: of papor

retches and lined picco ut leger

terspaper utilized. for guelt cover ta rordrobe:

5.

120g 2149 01/2000t With moee lathay Cheng

undston troteon

6. 250670 bou ga top of tractoba

cachadile kate

debsido on ramponst dated 4/0/05

cored one

trouch toelve

0. Latont indus rumaded At turoigh A3

tue iotoratone to requustod to tate appropriato

craniaction of this cvidenco.

3- Bureau

"1.

sis:

Sacingo

• Loconds (Lico)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HERDIN IS UNCLASSINIED

DATE IS A

navi

HW 55066 DoeId: 32989753. Page: 57

2326-351

---

## Page 58

0-9, (804512.2-64)

*=,"

.:

FBI.

Date:

4/16/68

Transmit the following in

Airtel

Via

(Type in plointex: or code)

(Priority)

To:!'SAC's, Atlanta (44-2386)

Memphis (44-1987)

From: Director, FBI (44-38861)

MURKIN

Re Atlanta letter and teletype 4/15/68, and delivery of

evidence 4/15/68, by SA J. B. Reynolds.

Two latent fingerprints developed on piece of lined paper, Q,168,

and to latent palm prints developed on newspaper from shelf, Q169. These

items from Room 6 at 113 14th Street, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia.

Nine latent palm prints of value found on lifts A-1, A-3, A-5,

A-9, A-10,. A-1I, and A-12. No other latent impressions of value found or

developed.

These latent impressions compared with latent impressions

previously reported in this case, but no identitication efiected.

• Latent prints

not identical with fingerprints of suspect Harold George Anderson, FB1

#4156402. No palm prints here for Anderson.

Lifts A-4 and A-7 are of no value and have been destroyed.

Results of laboratory examination and disposition of all other submitted items

are subjects of separate report.

Dup"D"

441238

6

-54/4

SCARCHED

SERIALIEED

APR17 1968

ATI. I

CAN 1D UNHALED

робітаср

__ M

Per

Sent Via

H# 55066 DocId: 32989753

Page 58

---

## Page 59

0-93

17-79-771

081

PAGE

DATE

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

CLASSIRICATION

4/28/1978

UNCLAS EFT O :

#FENDOO LAUDE HQ NO08Z 11BENOYUDO 201946Z APR 28

PRECECENCS

IMMEDIATE

FM

EM DIRECTOR FBI 662-117290}

TO_TO FBI LOS ANGELES IMMEDIATE

_ВТ

591,592,593,598,605

14 LUNCLAS EFT O

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAS

12

HSCA, BY LETTER DATED MARCH 27, 1978, REQUESTED ALL FILE

_MATERIAL IN HEADQUARTERS AND LOS ANGELES REGARDING FRIENDS OF

10L

RHODESIA AND RONALD G. HEWITSON. MATERIAL REGARDING FRIENDS OF

RHODESIA SHOULD BE LIMITED TO 1967-1968 TIME FRAME• HEWITSON

ALLEGEDLY WAS I96B PRESIDENT OF FRIENDS OF RHODESIA AND RESIDEDI

LAT 9672 IMPERIAL STREET, GARDEN GROVE, CALIFORNIA.

др;

LOS ANGELES IS REQUESTED TO SEARCH INDICES REGARDING ABOVE

_SUBJECTS, DUPLICATE ANY PERTINENT MATERIAL, AND FURNISH A COPY

*_THEREOF TO FBI HEADQUARTERS ATTENTION REC-GONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY

UNIT RECORDS MANAGEMENT I SIN COMMIT. COTT

2

BT

" CATATED

DAREA-IS.

-Sio

20 MAY

1978

LtB2/8827

PEM

B.: PEM_{2}

I - LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

• ATTN: MR. D. O. COULSON

1 - MR: BAILEY

I - MR. FOSTER

4/28/78-

8988/4.

-3653.

CONMOMCATONS SECTOR

2005

ECKH

APR 28 1978

TELETYPE

LILI

1:3

DATIISIBO

9(9199

spinachie

HH

S5066

DocId: 32989753 Page 59

---

## Page 60

HOUSE SELECT CO MITILE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

lone: see &, hobert Blakey, Chier counsel and Director,

HSCA, letter to the Attorney General, dated Harch 27, 1978.

in, 2 min

HH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 60-

---

## Page 61

0-93 :• 17.19-70

092

P.

N755

ahe

0e 7

PL

PAGE

DATE

4/28/78

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLAS EF TO

PrECEDENCE

ROUTINE

#FOSZERR_CO_ME NOUDE HQ N0092 118$NOYEOR202033Z_APR_78_

FM

FM DIRECTOR FBI {62-117290}

TOLTO FBI COLUMBIA ROUTINE

FBI MEMPHIS ROUTINE

14 _FBI. NEW ORLEANS ROUTINE

BT

12 UNCLAS EFT O

HOLSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS INSEAT

10

IN CONNECTION WITH THE ASCA'S INVESTIGATION INTO THE

LASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR., STAFF MEMBERS OF THE

8 HSCA HAVE BEEN GIVEN ACCESS TO NUMEROUS FILES AT FBIHQ INCLUDING

_THOSE RELATING TO THE UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA EUKAZ AND ARTHUR

• HANES, FORMER COUNSEL OF JAMES E. RAY. BY LETTER TO THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL DATED APRIL 12: 19781 THE HSCA FURNISHED

A LIST

ALOF SERIALS CONCERNING CONTACT BETWEEN HANES AND ROBERT SHELTON.

_IMPERIAL WIZZARD OF THE UKA. THIS LETTER REQUESTED THAT FBI

INFORMANTS PROVIDING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE HANES-SHELTON.

RELATIONSHIP BE CONTACIED TO DETERMINE IF THEY WOULD BE

IS NOT TY MISSESE IS REEZE 6 2-117290-6?1

4/28/78

L8988/4553653-

120 MAY 2

1378

SEE NOTE PAGE SIX S

• I - CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

AT.TN.:

MR. M. V. HALE

• 1'- LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

ATTN:

MR. D.

O. COULSON:

I MRUN FOSTERTIGATION

1C2IBTRMINGHAMEGEFOR INFORMATIONI

APR 29 1978

ita!

ALI, INT

FREEN

55066

---

## Page 62

0-93A, (7-19-77)

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

20

18

PAGE 2

CONTINUATION SHEET

PAGEARTWOE DE HQ MDOSE UNCLASEF TO

AGREEABLE TO INTERVIEW BY HSCA STAFF MEMBERS.. THESE INFORMANTS

TALL FORMERE ARE AS FOLLOWS:

{17 .C0.44-R, BUFILE 170-553, COLUMBIA FILE 170-11i

OPERATED FROM. 1965 TO 1972. THIS INFORMANT REPORTED INFORMATION

16

CONCERNING HANES-SHELTON CONTACT, AS SET FORTH IN COLUMBIA

AIRTEL AND LHM TO THE BUREAU DATED AUGUST 4, 1969, CAPTIONED

"IMPERIAL BOARD MEETING, UKA INC., KKKK TUSCALOOSA, ALABAMA,

JULY 271969.

12

62} ME 313-E, BUREAU FILE 170-666 MEMPHIS FILE 170-1547

OPERATED FROM 1.965 TO 1972. INFORMATION FROM THIS INFORMANT

10.

CONCERNING THE HANES-SHELTON RELATIONSHIP WAS REPORTED IN

MEMPHIS AIRTEL TO THE BUREAU ÄUGUST 19, 1968, AND MEMPHIS. AIRTEL

AND LHM TO THE BUREAU DATED AUGUST 29: 1968, BOTH CAPTIONED

"MURKIN".

€33 •BH. 4I8-R (FORMER NO 1289-R}, BUFILE 170-260, BIRMINGHAM

_FILE 170-189, NEW ORLEANS FILE 170-85, OPERATED FROM. 1964 TO

4_1969. THIS. INFORMANT WAS LAST CONTACTED IN LATE 1969 BY

_NEW ORLEANS AFTER RELOCATING FROM BIRMINGHAM. INFORMANT RE-

2 PORTED ON CONTACT BETWEEN HANES AND SHELTON AS SET FORTH IN

_BIRMINGHAM AIRTELS TO THE BUREAU DATED JULY 22, 1966-AND.

DO NOT TYPE MESSAGE BELOW THIS LINE

FBI DOU

HW 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 62

---

## Page 63

: 0-93A. (7-19-77)

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

PAGE

3

CONTINUATION SHEET

PAGERTHREE DE HR NOOSE UNCLAS E FIO

AUGUST 20% 1968: AND BIRMINGHAM AIRTEL AND LHM TO THE BUREAU

DATED SEPTEMBER. 47. 1968, ALL CAPTIONED. "UKA, INC. KKKK". NONE

OF THESE DOCUMENTS WERE SENT TO NEW ORLEANS.

COLUMBIA, MEMPHIS, AND NEW ORLEANS ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

INFORMANTS, RESPECTIVELY, AND ADVISE EACH THAT THE HSCA DESIRES

TO INTERVIEW THEM CONCERNING INFORMATION THEY PROVIDED ABOUT THE :

HANES-SHELTON RELATIONSHIP. THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAT TO THE

FBI'S KNOWLEDGE, THE HSCA IS NOT AWARE OF THEIR RELATIONSHIP

WITH THE FBI OR THEIR IDENTITIES, OTHER THAN THE LATTER IS

LIKELY AVAILABLE TO THE COMMITTEE THROUGH ITS REVIEW OF UKA

FILES. DETERMINE AT THIS POINT ONLY INFORMANTS' INITIAL

REACTION TO BEING INTERVIEWED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE HSCA.

IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS TO INTERVIEW, THE INFORMANT SHOULD BE

TOLD THAT CONFERENCES WITH THE HSCA. AND THE DEPARTMENT .OF

_JUSTICE WILL BE UNDERTAKEN. TO WORK OUT ADDITIONAL DETAILS RE-

_GARDING THE EXTENT OF PROTECTION AND CONFIDENTIALITY THE HSCA

ALIS WILLING TO EXTEND AS WELL AS. THE LOCATION AND SCOPE OF

LINTERVIEW.

2

SUTEL RESULTS TO FBIH& ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL. INQUIRY

LUNIT-_RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

DO NOT TYPE MESSAGE BELOW THIS LINE

DO NOT TYPE PAST THIS LINE

FEl DOS

NW 55066 . DocId: 32989753 Paye 63

---

## Page 64

_0-93A. (7-19-77)

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

PAGE

4

CONTINUATION SHEET

PAGEARFOUR DE HQ MOD92 UNCLAS EFT O

FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OF MEMPHIST THROUGH ITS REVIEW

20L

OF FBIHQ FILE CONCERNING THE INVADERS. THE HSCA HAS DETERMINED

THAT THE MEMPHIS OFFICE HAD FIVE INFORMANTS FURNISHING INFOR-

MATION REGARDING THAT GROUP. THE COMMITTEE IS TRYING TO RESOLVE

THE ISSUE AS TO WHETHER OR NOT THESE INFORMANTS WERE INVOLVED

IN INSTIGATING VIOLENCE WHICH OCCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH THE

SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE IN MEMPHIS DURING 1968. THESE IN-

FORMANTS ARE AS FOLLOWS: ME 262-R, MEMPHIS FILE 170-10193

ME 338-R1 MEMPHIS FILE 170-70; ME 339-R1 MEMPHIS FILE 170-117;

ME 352-R, MEMPHIS FILE 170-1040% AND ME 353-RY MEMPHIS FILE

10 L

_170-1022•

THE HSCA DESIRES TO INTERVIEW THE SPECIAL AGENTEST WHO

HANDLED THESE INFORMANTS. THEREFORE, MEMPHIS INCLUDE IN YOUR

TELETYPE IDENTITIES OF AGENTS HANDLING THE ABOVE FIVE IN- •

6_FORMANTS. SPECIFY TIME PERIODS INVOLVED. IF KNOWN, FURNISH

_THE CURRENT OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT. OR LAST KNOWN ÄDDRESS OF THESE

4 LAGENTS...

INFORMATION COPY TO BIRMINGHAM TO ADVISE OF HSCA'S INTEREST

2_IN BH. 4I8-R1 A FÖRMER HIGH. LEVEL INFORMANT IN THE NATIONAL

OFFICE OF THE UKA. &

DO NOT TYPE MESSAGE BELOW THIS LING

F8I.0OS

IN 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 64

---

## Page 65

0-93A. 17-19-771

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

-..

PAGE

I START HERE

BT

20_1:

18_

CONTINUATION SHEET

16-

DO NOT TYPE PAST THIS LINE

4

2-

DO NOT TYPE MESSAGE BELOW THIS LINE

FBI DOJ

IN 55066 DocId:32989753 Page 65

---

## Page 66

TORST STARE OUTINE ON BASINTO ME

NOTE: The ESCA request of April 12, 1978, Listed five

Serfals which contained information regarding the llanes-

Shelton relationship. All information in these serials

was obtained from the informants named above.

Following receipt of identities of agent(s) handling

informants

providing information of the Invaders, a memorandum

will be prepared recomending these agents be contacted by the

Director releasing them from their enployment agreements in

order to be interviewed by the HISCA.

Investigative Division.

=

H# 55066

DooId: 32989753

Page 66

---

## Page 67

ID-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

[J Facsimile

& Airte!

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

CLEAR

Date

--=

4/20/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (66-2242) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS_ (HSCA)

BUDED

4/21/78

518

Re Bureau teletype to Atlanta, Los Angeles, and

Memphis, 3/29/78; Bureau telephone call

to Atlanta, 3/31/78

and Atlanta letter to FBIHQ, 4/11/78:620

By separate package, Atlanta is sending FBIHQ xeroxeđ

copies of 74 volumes of documents that were in the Atlanta

file on MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., 100-5586 as requested by

FBIHQ.

Referenced Bureau teletype had indicated that in

connection with the investigation into the assassination of

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., the

various field office files, including the entire Atlanta

e Files)

HSCA had requested access to

security file concerning MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., (Atlanta

file 100-5586)• One legible copy of each document in this

Atlanta file was to be furnished to FBIHQ.

ST +14 62-117290-670

2-Burea

-Раскад

REC-79

2-Atlanta

(1 - 66-2242)

EAS/ smb

(1 - 100-5586) RETAINED

9 APR 24 1978

(5)

1-С14

DOCUMENTS

IN RM 8588 JEH.

foster

REX

jeD

Піврі

In baitin

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

GPO: 19770-225-539

NH 55066

DooId:32989753

Page 67

---

## Page 68

•.

AT 66-2242

The Bureau also advised Atlanta in referenced

Bureau telephone call, that the HSCA wanted Atlanta to

first furnish those documents in KING's Atlanta security

file that covered the period 1/1/68 through 4/30/68, and

when these were xeroxed, they were to be sent to FBIHQ right

When this phase was completed, then the remaining

documents in KING's Atlanta file were to be xeroxed and sent

to FBIHQ.

The Atlanta file on MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.,

consisted of 81 volumes and the documents in this file

covering the period 1/1/68 through 4/30/68 were in volumes

14 through 80. Since the KING file only contained 81 volumes,

Itlanta submitted volumes 74 through 81 with referenced Atlanta

letter to FBIHQ, 4/11/78.

One xerox copy of the following volumes of the

Atlanta file on MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., are being sent

to FBIHQ at this time:

1)

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

None

2)

3)

Volume

100-5586

1A exhibits

100-5586

Volume 1

100-5586

Volume 2

Serials in volume

1A-1 through

1A-38

1-100

None

101 - 175

None

4)

100-5586

Volume 3

176 - 255

None

5)

6)

100-5586

Volume 4

100-5586

Volume 5

256 - 334

None

335 - 389

None

- 2-

HH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 68

---

## Page 69

AT 66-2242

Volume

7)

100-5586

Volume 6

8)

100-5586

Volume 7

9)

100-5586

Volume 8

10)

100-5586

Volume 9

1l)

100-5586

Volume 10

12)

100-5586

Volume 11

13)

100-5586

Volume 12

14)

100-5586

Volume 13

15)

100-5586

Volume 14

16)

100-5586

Volume 15

17)

100-5586

Volume 16

18)

100-5586

Volume 17

19)

100-5586

Volume 18

Serials in volume

390 - 447

448 - 524

525 - 578

579 - 640

541 - 710

711 - 760

761 - 819

820 - 874

875 - 930

931 - 1004

1005 - 1070

1071 - 1135

1136 - 1200

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

None

#470, 495, 496 & 514

None

#600

None

#728

#772 & 779

#820 & 846

None

#962, 967 & 1003

#1039

#1083

#1145, 1161, 1184

& 1197

- 3 -

NH 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 69

---

## Page 70

AT 66-2242

20)

21)

22)

23)

24)

25)

26)

27)

28)

29)

30)

31)

32)

Volume

100-5586

Volume 19

100-5586

Volume 20

100-5586

Volume 21

100-5586

Volume 22

100-5586

Volume 23

100-5586

Volume 24

100-5586

Volume 25

100-5586

Volume 26

100-5586

Volume 27

100-5586

Volume 28

100-5586

Volume 29

100-5586

Volume 30

100-5586

Volume 31

Serials in volume

1201 - 1275

1276 - 1335

1336 - 1370

1371 - 1475

1476 - 1593

1594 - 1702

1701 - 1790

1791 - 1866

1867 - 1960

1961 - 2037

2308 - 2348

2349 - 2425

2426 - 2515

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume

#1232

#1296.

None

#1395, 1454

& 1464.

#1505, 1517

& 1536

#2606, 1698, 1639

None

#1851

#1903, 1916 & 1937

#1970, 1988 & 2007

None

#2359 &

2388

#2480 &

2486

- 4-

WW 55066 DocId: 32989753 Paye 70

---

## Page 71

AT 66-2242

33)

34)

35)

36)

37)

38)

Volume

100-5586

Volume 32

100-5586

Volume 33

100-5586

Volume 34

100-5586

Volume 35

100-5586

Volume 36

100-5586

Volume 37

39)

40)

41)

100-5586

Volume 38

100-5586

Volume 39

100-5586

Volume 40

Serials in volume

2516 - 2569

2570 - 2664

2665 - 2760

2761 - 2856

2857 - 2944

2945 - 3125

(this volume

was not serialized

correctly - it went

from serial 3010 tc

3111, a skip of 100

serials.)

3126 - 3225

3226 - 3345

3346 - 3475

42)

100-5586

Volume 41

3476 - 3605

- 5 -

NY 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 71

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

#2525 & 2563

#2578, 2589, 2609,

2613 & 2614

#2774

#2768 & 2826

#2928

#2954, 2962, 2964,

2981 & 3003

#3130, 3155 & 3192

#3239 & 3251

#3366, 3372 - 3374,

3386,

3388, 3395,

3397, 3404, 3406,

3408, 3421, 3430.,

3432, 3434, 3436,

3438, 4663

&3465 -

#3480, 3497, 3527,

3540 & 3553

---

## Page 72

AT 66-2242

43)

44)

45)

46)

47)

48)

49)

50)

51)

52)

53)

54)

55)

56)

Volume

100-5586

Volume 42

100-5586

Volume 43

100-5586

Volume 44

100-5586

Volume 45

100-5586

Volume 46

100-5586

Volume 47

100-5586

Volume 48

100-5586

Volume 49

100-5586

Volume 50

100-5586

Volume 51

100-5586

Volume 52

100-5586

Volume 53

100-5586

Volume 54

100-5586

Volume 55

Serials in volume.

3606 - 3690

3691 - 3800

3801 - 3925

3926 - 4059

4060 - 4200

4201 - 4291

4292 - 4410

4411 - 4515

4516 - 4662

4663 - 4778

4779 - 4873

4874 - 4977

4978 - 5039

5040 - 5157

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

•or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

#3606, 3609, 3615

& 3618

#3721 - 3723, 3731,

3736, 3740, 3745

3772 - 3777 & 3780

#3823, 3829, 3832,

3835, 3881 & 3894

#3933, 3944, 3987,

3989,

3991, 4017

& 4021

#4093

#4214, 4215, 4240,

4241 & 4249

#4371 & 4372

#4450, 4465 - 4470,

& 4476

#4628, 4637, 4638

& 4640

#4711 & 4712

#4781

#4972

None

None

-6 -

WW 55066 DocId: 32989753 Paye 72

---

## Page 73

• ...

AT 66-2242

57)

58)

59)

60)

61)

62)

63)

64)

65)

66)

67)

68)

69)

Volume

100-5586

Volume 56

100-5586

Volume 57

100-5586

Volume 58

100-5586

Volume 59

100-5586

Volume 60

100-5586

Volume 61

100-5586

Volume 62

100-5586

Volume 63

100-5586

Volume 64

100÷5586

Volume 65

100-5586

Volume 66

100-5586

Volume 67

100-5586

Volume 68

Serials in volume

5158 - 5244

5245 - 5367

5368 - 5490

5491 - 5563

5564 - 5607

5608 - 5698

5699 - 5774

5775 - 5861

5862 - 5943

5944 - 6051

(should have

been 5943 - 6051)

6058 - 6143

6144 - 6233

6234 - 6314

-7-

IN 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 73

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

None

None

None

None

None

#5660

#5773

None

None

None

None

None

None

---

## Page 74

-

• ...

AT 66-2242

70)

Volume

100-5586

Volume 69

Serial Numbers

shipped in volume

or serials not

accounted for on list

of serials removed

from that volume.

None

71)

72)

73)

74)

100-5586

Volume 70

100-5586

Volume 71

100-5586

Volume 72

100-5586

Volume 73

Serials in volume

6315 - 6356

(it is noted that

this volume had

serialization from

6315 - 6359 but the

next serial was in-

advertently shown as

6340 with the result of

duplication of serial

numbers.)

6357 - 6446

6447 - 6503

6504 - 6571

6571 - 6680

None

None

None

None

As the Bureau will note in the above list, in a

number of volumes of the KING file, there are many serials

listed that cannot be accounted for. For the information

of the Bureau, back in 1977, Atlanta had a massive project

of retrieving communications containing electronic surveillance

(elsur) information regarding MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., and

the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) per a

court order in the case captioned,

"BERNARD S. LEE V.

CLARENCE M. KELLEY: ET AL (U.S.D.C., D.C.) CIVIL ACTION

NO. 76-1185 AND SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE

(SCLC) V. CLARENCE M. KELLEY; ET AL (U.S. D.C., D.C.) ,

CIVIL ACTION NO: 76-1186". In this project, Atlanta

had to

review hundreds of volumes of Atlanta files and retrieve

thousands of communications containing this elsur information

so these communications could be sent to FBIHQ, for eventual

-8-

HH 55066 Do0Id:32989753 Page 74

---

## Page 75

AT 66-2242

transfer to the National Archives per the court order.

Atlanta In carrying out this project, had to use a large

number of Atlanta personnel, many being unfamiliar with

security type work and communications.

These people had been instructed to list each serial

removed from the file on a form that Atlanta devised for each

vOlume reviewed in project, however, it was felt that in mans

Instances where a cover airtel and LHM were removed from the

files, both these items would be stapled together, resulting

in only the cover airtel serial number being listed on the

form; the LHM serial number would not be noted by the person

removing this

Atlanta feels

communication

and as a result it was not recorded.

this

for serials.

accounts for the bulk of the unaccounted

- 9*-

HW 55066 DocId:32989753

Page

75

---

## Page 76

RD-36-Fpuv. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

0 Facsimile

XI Airtel

ERI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

O TOP SECRET

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

D CLEAR

Date

4/18/78

56

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

CONGRES

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

ERd.

SAC, MEMPHIS (66-2197) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

518

Re Bureau teletypes to Memphis,

Atlanta, and

Los Angeles, dated 3/28/78 and 3/29/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau under separate cover

are Il items containing xerox copies of serials from

files maintained by the Memphis Office regarding Ku Klux

The enclosed items contain information covering

The enclosed serials

Item 1

shelby County, Tennessee IncaVern,

United Klans of America,

(UKA)

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (KKKK)

RM - Klan

Item 2

M\S| SLe

approved: 5

HH 55066

UKA, KKKK

RM - Klan

ropiagare ENCLOSUREME file 157-679

(3. Bureau (Encs. 11) (1-package)

1-Memphis

BFJ :mab

ÉNEL ASTANED, RETAINED

(4)

Rm. 8988 gra

1-CI4

MAY 1 6 1978

Transmitted

(Number)

DooId: 32989753

Page 76

APR 22 1078

Per

(Time)

GO: 1977 0 - 225-539

---

## Page 77

ME 66-2197

Item 3

Item 4

Item. 5

Item 6

Item 7

Item 8

Item 9

Item 10

Original Knights of the Ku Klux Klan,

(Louisiana) (OKKKK), aka

RM - Organization

MEfile 157-24

Bufile 105-71801

Ku Klux Klan; IS - X;

U. S. Klans,

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Inc.

RM

MEfile 105-38

Dixie Klans,

KKKK

RM

MEfile 105-316

Bufile 105-65374

Tipton County, Tennessee, Klavern

UKÀ; KKKK

RM - Klan

MEfile 157-675

Hardeman County, Tennessee, Klavern

UKA; KKKK

RM - Klan

MEfile 157-686

Davidson County, Tennessee, Klavern

UKA; KKKK

RM - Klan

MEfile 157-695

Youth Corps,

JKA; KKKK

RM - Klar

MEfile 157-1095

Bufile 157-8616

Boiling Springs Klavern

UKA; KKKK

RM - Klan

MEfile 157-992

2

NN 55066 DocId: 32989753 Page 77

---

## Page 78

ME 66-2197

Item 11

Haywood County, Tennessee, Klavern

UKA; KKKK

RM - Klan

MEfile 157-673

A review of the indices and files of the Memphis

Office revealed no additional information regarding KKK

organizational activities during the period 9/1/67-6/30/68.

No further action contemplated by the Memphis Office, UACB.

3%

4H. 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page 78

---

## Page 79

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRM

NEMARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL'"

NINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART i. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRETHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEDR.

CHRISTODER LIDD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLO L. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT I. EDGAR, PA

(202) 225-4624

FEDERAL GOVERRIENE

6

Stomac

Select Committec or Assassinations

U.5. House di Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 25, 1978

Rect Cra

4/26/78

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell'

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113.

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In

connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JI., the assistance of the FBI is requested in re-

gard to the. following matters:

Access to all BUFILE, Subfiles and Identification DivI-

sion records for the following individuals for the enumerated.

periods:

1) JOE DANIEL HAWKINS, FBI #496700D. (Period: 1967-

1969)

2) " BURRIS LEE DUNN, JR., DOB: 5-15-29, POB: Jackson,

Mississippi. (Period: 1967 - 1969) .

3.)

JAMES LEWIS HARPER, DOB:

4-10-44, POB:

Braxton,

Mississippi. (Period: 1967 - 1969).

4)

BYRON DE LA BECKWITH, white male, DOB: 11-9-20,

POB:

Sacramento, California, 1968 residence:

101

Dewey Avenue, Greenwood, Mississippi.

(Period:

1967 - 19691

Subject of BUFILE #157-3744.

REG8562-117290-

5)

JACK MEREDITH

HELM, former Grand Dragon, Realm

Louisiana, United Klans of America.

(Period:

1967-

1969) •

62-117790

TREAT AS

I&: APR 28 1978

MASTEn Doe

58066 Md d: 5.187%3

Page 79

---

## Page 80

,=1

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

April 25, 1978

Page 2

". s

6) .

KATHLEEN MADLYN AINSWORTH, associate of Thomas Albert

Tarrants, III. (Period: 1967 - 1969).

7) NOAH JEFFERSON CARDEN, white male, 6'-6'1", 200 lb.,

1964 residence:

Mobile, Alabama.

Prior residence:

Key Biscayne, Florida.

Associate of Sidney Crockett

Barnes.

(Period: 1962 - 1969).

8)

SAMUEL HOLLOWAY BOWERS, Imperial Wizard of the White

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan of Mississippi in 1968.

(Period: 1962 - 1969):

9) • L. E. MATTHEWS, associate of Samuel Holloway Bowers.

(Period: 1962 - 1969). Referenced in BUFILE #157-5804.

10)

TRUMAN WEBBER ROGERS, former member of the White Knights

of the Ku Klux Klan of Mississippi, Jones County, Mis-

sissippi. (Period: 1962 - 1969).

11)

WILLIAM POTTER GALE, California leader of the Christian

Knights of the Invisible Empire, 1963. 1963 address:

1840 West Avenue, Lancaster, California. (Period:.

1962 - 1969).

12)

Rear Admiral JOHN C. CROMMELIN, 1964 residence: 1253

Magnolia Avenue, Montgomery, Alabama. (Period: 1957 -

1969)..

13)

14)

15)

H. RAP BROWN, Chairman, Student Non-Violent Coordinat-

ing Committee. (Period: 1967 - 1969).

STOKELY CARMICHAEL, former Chairman, Student Non-

Violent Coordinating Committee.

(Period: 1967- 1969).

Delivery of the following BUFILE serials:

44-38861-1046

(These serials can be located in the

44-38861-1170

Main MURKIN file.)

44-38861-1172

As time is if the essense, we would appreciate your prompt

attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

S. Nobis Blahg

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

ERB: Iba

ww 5506& Scara:339479bizafe and Danny Coulson

---

## Page 81

3%.

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

DARET GOVERREA

April 14, 1978

I - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. Bailey.

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

eneral from G. Robert Blakey, Chiei Counsel and Director, iSCA,

lated March 3, 1978, which requested, in connection with the

HSCA's Investigation Into the assassination of Martin Luther

King, Jr., access to the Headquarters and Field Office files

regarding four bombing matters occurring in Alabama, as well

as having three FBI Special Agents made available for Interview.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above request.

It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

p.macmia

NOTE: All Headquarters material relating to the four bombings

occurring in Alabama mentioned

In HSCA letter dated March 3, 1978,

has been prepared for access.

The Birmingham and Mobile Divisions

furnished FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) with copies of the files

relating to the bombings in question which occurred within their

respective Divisions.

This material has been processed and is

available for review

at FBIHQ.

By memorandum dated 3/15/78, the current offices of

assignment and/or last known addresses of Agents and former

Agents, listed In HSCA letter dated March 3, 1978, were set

forth and approval was obtained to clear them from their employment.

agreements and to contact them regarding interview by HscA

REC:65 62-119298

Arrangements Foilthese interviews

are handled Informally

by representatives of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs

andethe Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBI Headquarters.

APR 1 4 1978

WIS 11 33 16 1818

11 MAY 3 1978

15975509

FBI

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adr

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.

Telephone imbL

Director's Sée',

5A86

MAIL ROOM E

SocIENGLOSUBE Page B1

DELICE OL

BECEMEN

MR CASSN

Pur 3658

FBI,

---

## Page 82

I - Legal

Attn; Counsel Division

Mr.. Coulson

1 - Mr. Bailey

I - Mr. G. J. Foster

Apr11. 14, 7978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General Irom G. nobert Blakey, Chief counsel and Director,

HSCA, dated March 3, 1978, which requested, in connection

• with

the HSCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther

King, Jx., certain Information in the files of FBI Headquarters

(FBIHQ) .

Specifically, this letter requested all Headquarters

and Fleld Office files

relating to four bombing matters

occurring in Birmingham and Montgomery, Alabama.

Additionally, the Committee requested that Special

Agents Norman Walter Philcox, Moss Lee Innes, and Nathan L.

Ferris, be made avallable for Interview.

This memorandum. is to advise that the Headquarters,

and Mobile and Birmingham Field Office material regarding the

four bombing Inoidents in Alabama has been processed and 1s

avallable for revlew at FBIHQ.

This memorandum is also to confirm that the Agents

and former Agents of the FBI, as listed In the above mentioned

iSCA letter,

have been cleared from their employment agreements

and are avallable for Interview as needed by the HSCA,

Arrangements for Interview can be made through contact with

Where Information 1s not. provided, 1t is because

It 1s not retrievable or it is not being furnished pursuant

to the Memorandum of Understanding.

REM

Assoc. Dir.

- ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL

Dep. AD Adm. —

Dep. AD Inv. -

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

Asst.. Dir.:

Adm. Serrs.-

Crim. Inv..

Ident..

Intell.

April 14, 1978, captioned as above. ¿iT, I.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Seirs.

Training.

HBL

I: 11115/84

62-117290

Public Affs. Off. —

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

MY ISOGE

MAIL ROOM P

DocId: 32989753

Page 82

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 83

LO179 8T0468,0440, CHUANEN

LICA E, VAUNTROY.

o.c.

СМГИВТЕРНІВ 1, ДОЗУ, "Оло.

10 С. ПJR3, 98901

1D 8.0781114.8440.

BTTTAII8

CHAMES

жки

Sclect Committee on Assassinations.

(208) 273-6626

U1.5o. House of fiepresentatibes

Ru. C14 3/1/98 at 18°E

8071 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G, 20515

Hand Odelivered by HSCAstfer March 3, 1978

Tale Opperterg

Bukker

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention:

MI. Robert J.. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Di. Martin

Iuther King, JI., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation make access available, to the following investiga-

tive files:

1) All Headguarters and Field Office files on:

8.

the bombing of the Gaston Motel, May 1963,

Birmingham, Alabama,

the bombing of Reverend A. D. King's house,

May 1963, Birmingham, Alabama,

the bombing of DI. Martin Luther king, Jr.'s

house, January 30, 1956, Montgomery, Alabama,

d.

the attempted bombing of Dr. Martin Luther

King, JI. 's house, January 28, 1957, Mont-

gonery, Alabama.

further,

it would be appreciated if the following Agents

• were made available for interviews:

Norman Walter Philcox - Legat, Paris 1967-69

Moss Ire Innes - Legat, Ottawa 1967-69

Nathan I, Ferris - Legat, Mexico City = 1967-69

110226

.:3

55066

DocId: 32989753

-Page

ENCLOSU

---

## Page 84

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 3, 2978

Раде 2

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

S. Robes Slatey

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

•Cc: Danny Coulson

MH 55066 -DocId: 32989753

Pae 81

---

## Page 85

FADERRE COVEWELL

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

ROUSE SELECT COMMITTER ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

March 31, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

HSCA, dated March 28, 1978, which, in connection with the

HSCA's Investiration Into the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther

King, Jr., requested copies of certain material in the files of

FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are the original and one copy of a memorandum

In response to the above request, and it is requested that you

give a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the FiSCA.

Enclosures (2)

Just

TWB: Dim

(6)

62-117290

NOME: Per the telephonic request of Gerald familton, lSCA, a

copy of the sixteen (16) documents from the Los Angeles and

Headquarters Martin Luther King, Jr.,' assassination file

were turned over to Robin Lindley, ESCA, on March 29; 1978.

ST. 114

REC-65

62-112290-662

11: MAY 3 1978

ALL INECTET POLEOD

I".

рмасрие

MAILED 7

MAR 3 1 1978

FBI

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Acm. =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv.

Crim. Inv..

• Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun. =

Plon. & Insp. a

2-ENCLÖSURE

Spec. Inv. =

Tech. Servs..

Training _

Public Affs. Off._

Tolephond Rm. BIA

Director's Sec'y.

1919973

MAIL, ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

55066

DocId: 32989753

Paue 85

V6 1 2 15 64 1819

W:LH182

C2L% 0:

Colksan 2455 a

---

## Page 86

I - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

March 31, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITICE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ASCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

ISCA, dated March 28, 1978, which, in connection with the

ISCA's investigation Into the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther

King, Jr., requested copies of certain material in the files

of FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, the HSCA requested

thirteen (13) specific serials from the Los Angeles Field Office

file on the assassination of Dr. King and three (3) serials

from the FBIHQ file on that assassination.

Per the request of Mr. Gerald Hamilton of the SCA,

a copy os the above-mentioned documents was delivered to

Mr. Robin Lindley of the Committee on March 29, 1978.

This letter completes response to the HSCA request

dated March 28, 1978.

JuVB : BEm (6)

62-117290

ORIGINAL AND ONF SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, AUTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

March 31, 1978, captioned as above.

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adri.-

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inve

Fin. & Pers.-

ldent._

Intell. _

Laboratory =

Legal Coun

Plan. & Insp. -

Spoc. Inv. =_

Toch, Servs.

Training_

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y

MAIL ROOM

1Н 55066 DocId:32989753

62-117290-462

TELETYPE UNIT ENCLOSURE

Page 86

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 87

MICHINOSON PHEYCH, N.C.

"WALTEN E. FAUNTROY, D.G.

YVONNE DRATINAITE DUNKE, CALF.

CHMISTORNIA I. DODS, CONN.

накого к. 40д0, TINN.

TROTO 1. FITHIAN, IMO.

ONTO, CHATAMAN

SAMUÉL, I, DIVINE, OHIO

БТЕШАНТВО

MINNLY, COMM.

F146

MAROLO

274, MICH.

Rin: 3 29/18

cio

(202) 225-4628

libin findly at !!?.

Select Committec on Assassinations

.El.5. House of Ziepresentatives

S331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX?

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 28, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal: Division, Room 2113

DeaL MI. Attorney General:

In connection with this Committee's investigation into.

the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin Iuther

King, JX., we would appreciate copies of the following serials

as soon as possible:

LA MURKIN

44-1574D-145

LA MURKIN

44-1574D-150

LA •MURKIN

44-1574D-151

Les MURKIN

LA MURKIN

44-1574D-152

44-1574D-174

LA MURKIN 44-1574D-213

LA MURKIN 44-1574D-216

LA MURKIN 44-1574D-380.

LA MURKIN 44-1574D-381

LA MURKIN. 44-1574D-495

LA MURKIN 1574-1629

•LA MURKIN 1574-1763

LA MURKIN: 1574-1897

BUF ILE 44-38861-5539

BUFILE 44-38861-5540

BUFILE. 44-38861-5558

Thank you for your prompt assistance.

Sincerely,

В. Лових Bloly

Robert Blakey

•Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: gha

cc:

Danny Coulson

62=117290-600

ENCLOSURE.:-

NH 55086

DocId: 32989759

Pade BT

---

## Page 88

JEONRAL GOVIRPUANA

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

March 30, 1978

<T

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J.

Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

J. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

58%0,590 648 (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General Irom G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director:

ASCA, dated March 17, 1978, which requested, in connectior

with the HSCA's investigation into the assassination of

Martin Luther King, Jr., that delivery be made of the FBI

Identification Division records on eloht individuals, as

well as all file material on

JEK Act 6 (4)

and an FD-302

9/

reflecting the interview of Charles Joseph Stein.

The

Committee requested that access be given to any material on

Marcelle Mathieu and Lise Robillard.

Additionally,

the HSCA

requested that three Special Agents be made available for

Interview.

Enclosed are an original and one copy with an

1978

attachment in partial response to the above request.

It is

MAILED 7

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum

with attachment to the HSt 11t

Enelosures (3)

REC-65.

62-117290-661

N-117290

3 Him bah

. (6)

22 MAY 3 1978

NOTE:

With respect to the request for files on

JFK Act 6 (4)

the HSCA, on March 17, 1978, delivered a waiver

sipned by JFK Act 6 14

authorizing the Committee to receive his informant file. Subse-

member Surtle Lit onwas released to Tilsa BerloW,

staff

on March 23, 1978. This release was coordinated

Assoc. Dir.-

- MAthithe Criminal Informant Unit, Division Six.

Dep. AD. Adn. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asse. Dir.:

ENELOSURE

Staff member Gerald Hamilton advised that above reauest

Adm. Sorv..

2'should include the Atlanta Field Office informant file for

Crim. Inv. =

By teletype March 28

1978, Atlanta was requested to

n.& Pors— furnish FBI Headquarters (FBIHA) with a copy of JEK Act 6 14

- informant file.

arrison was a Bureau informant from 19h4 t

Laboratory — 1974, and

served at'one time, as'l

JEK Act 6 14

of the SCLC. Upon

Loga cour — receipt at FBIHA, this

Plan. & Insp. -

file will be processed

and turned

Reco Mgnto ===

- to the LSCA.

Spec. Inve—

Tech. Servs.=

Training

Public

1 5 1978

AJ

Direc

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT [

SEF MOTE PACE, 2

MK. CountSoN

Pin 3655

55000

FBI/DOJ

DooId: 32989753

Page 88

---

## Page 89

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

On Harch 29, 1978, per the telephonic request of

Hamilton, a copy of the identification records of the eight

indiviquals was picked up by stall member robin Lindley.

Hamilton also stated that the correct spelling for Marcelle

Mathier Is Marcelle Mathieu

He regretted that the HISCA had

furnished Incorrect information.

By memorandum dated larch 27, 1978, the current

offices of asstenment and/or last known addresses of Agents

and former Agents, Listed in AstA letter dated larch 17, 1973,

were set forth and approval was obtained to clear them fron

their employment apreements and to contact them regarding

interview by HSCA.

Arrangements for these interviews are handled

Informally by representatives of the Legal Liaison and

Congressional Affairs Unit and the Conpressional Inquiry Unit

of FBI Headquarters.

(2)

HH 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page 89

---

## Page 90

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

March 30, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

teneral from t. robert blakey, Chiel counsel and Director.

ASCA, dated March 17, 1978, which requested, In connectior

with

the HSCA's investigation into the assassination of

Martin Luther King, Jr.,

certain information in the files

of FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, the HSCA requested

delivery of the Identification Division records of eight

Individuals; all file material on

JEK Act 6 (4)

and an

Interview of Charles Joseph Stein on rebruary T,

1969.

Additionally, the HSCA requested that all material on

Marcelle Mathieu and Lise Robillard be made avallable for

review, and that three Special Agents of the FBI be made

available for interview.

This memorandum is to advise that the above-requested

Identification Division records have been obtained for the

Individuals in question. A copy of these records was turned

over to Mr. Robin Lindley of the HSCA per the telephonic

request of Mr. Gerald Hamilton, on March 29, 1978. Included

in this material delivered to Mr. Lindley was a copy of serial

D-512 from the Los Angeles Martin Luther King, er, assassination

file (44-1574), as set forth in ltem five of the above-referenced

letter.

All files relating to

JFK Act 6 (4)

with the

exception of certain requested Field Office material, has been

processed and 1s being provided as an attachment.

The Field

Office material will be provided as soon as 1s feasible after

It is reviewed at FBIHQ.

The Headquarters material regarding Marcelle Mathieu

Assoc. Dir. -

and Ilse Robillard has been processed and 1s avallable for

Dep. ADAd. - review at FBIHA.

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adn. Serv. _

This is also to confirm that Agents and former Agents

Crim inv. — of the FBI, Ilsted In the above HSCA letter, have been cleared

Fin. & Pes — from their employment agreements and are available for Interview

Intolla.

as needed by the HSCA.

Arrangements for interview can be made

Laboratory -

- through contact with representatives of the Legal Ilaison and

Legal Coun. -

Plen. & Insp. —

- Congressional Affairs Unit and the Congressional Inguiry Unit

Reco Mgnt. =

of FBIHQ.

Spoc. Inv. =

: pf

'm (6)

OR

Troining -

Public Afts. Off.-

Telephone Rm. =

1311)

Director's See'y =

MAIL ROOM

HIT

55066 DooId: 32989753

INAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

THAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

TELETYPE UNIT O

SEE NOLE PAGE 2

Page

90

ENCLOSURE 62-1172981

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 91

OUSE SELECT COMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONE

1. S. HOUSE OF REPRESELIIAIIVES (HISCA

Where information 1s not provided, It is either

not retrievable or is subject to the Memorandum of Understanding.

53- 117299

March 30, 197?, canticines as

above.

(2)

NH 55066 DocId: 32989753

Page 91

---

## Page 92

'LOUIS STOKES, ONIO, CHAIRI

SAMUEL

VALTES

FAUNTROY, D.C.

EVONVE DHATHVAITE NUAKE, CALIFO

CHRISTOPHER 1. DOOD. CONM

HAROLU C. FOND, TENH

FLOYO S. FITIIIAN, INO.

MODERT W. COÇAS, PR. O

іг. оню

CHATLES THIONE, MENK.

HAROLO S. SAWYER, MICH..

8,

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee oi Assassinations

U.5. House of Bicuresentatiues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

• WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

MAR 51 7 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

.. Attention:

Mx. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jx., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation assist the Select Committee on Assassinations

with respect to the matters outlined below:

1) Make available for interviews, the following

FBI agents:

a) Aurthur Murtaugh

b)

Edward Crim

c) Alden F. Miller

• All of the above were formerly assigned to the Atlanta

Field Office.

2) Provide Identification Division records (i.e. Criminal

Arrest

records) on the following individuals:

a)

b)

c)

d)

e)

James D. York: FBI #283-6207

William K. Livingston FBI #787-311C

Henry Alexander

FBI #429-902C

Wilson Bragg

FBI #752-173B

Raymond C. Britt, Jr. IBIT 404-533C

Gilbert Leroy Cameron - Date of birth: 2/5/33.

aka

Leroy Bleasoe

aka Eugene Straub (e)

ENCLOSURE

62-117290-666

1N 55066 •DooId:32989753

Page 92

---

## Page 93

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

• Page

Two

+ 88

Eugene Hall - w/m/approx. 50.

h)

Chester Sheffield - w/m/approx. 50.

The above individuals, designated (g) and (h), are

alleged to have had involvement in bombing activities in

Birmingham, Alabama in the 1960's.

3) Prepare for access any material on:

a) Marcelle Mathier - 3280 Belair Street

Apartment 210

Montreal, Canada

(1968 age

27)

b) Lise Robillard - 155 St. Alexis Street

Charlemagne District

Montreal, Canada

4)

(1968 age 19)

Prepare for delivery all file material on:

JEK Act 6 (4)

The above individual was

affiliated with the SCLC of

Atlanta, Georgia in 1968.

5)

prepare for delivery LA MURKIN 44-1574 D-512,

interview with Charles Joseph Stein conducted

February 17, 1969.

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

i112. Nober Blesse

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghj

CC:

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

HH 55066• DocId: 32989753 Page 93

---

## Page 94

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

April 11, 1978

1'"*: bailey

SEDERAL VISIT

Tr. Toster

ROUSE SETECT COMTEE ON ASSASSTNATIONS

Leral Counsel Pivision

Attn. Ir. Coulson

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

NETH WE VES ASCA

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 26, 1978, which, in connection with the ESCA's invest1-

gation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI.,

requested certain information from files of FBI Headquarters.

Reference is also made to FBI memorandum dated March 3, 1978,

which contained information in partial response to the

letter

of January 26, 1978.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum-

which completes response to HSCA request of January 26, 1978.

It is requested that you turnish a copy of the enclosed

1.

memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

C2-117290

m, (0)

MOnD: Regarding Item 49, subfiles of the Hew Orleans:

Birminghan: semphis: Chicago: Atlanta flacl Panther Party

Ingeles and Jackson

Offices were processed concerning the

Blacl: Buslims and the Student Honviolent Coordinatine Committee.

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adh. _

Dep. AD Inv. ff

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso

Ident. -

Intoll..

Laboratory

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. -e

Tech. Servs. -

Training -

Public Affs. Off.-

elephga

ENCLOSURE

REC-65

covered was 1966-1964

62-112290

-6659

22 MAY 3 1978

MAILED 7

CAR 7 1 1978 54 1P

Wait i shed te

I':

1018186-

MAIL ROOM

55066 D6cId: 36469753

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 94

NO. (59E5E

Ra 3658

FBITDOJ

---

## Page 95

...

1. Ir. Failey

1.

Fr. Foster

]

Leral Counsel Division

Attn• Mr. Coulson

Apr11 11, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

response to the letter of January 26, 1978.

In response to the above request, (Part. B), Information

regarding the following items has been processed and is

available for HSCA access at FBIHQ. Where information 1s not

provzdea, It is either not retrievable or is not being furnished

pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Personne

Ident..

Intell. _

Laboratory =

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc. Mgni. -

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.-

Training -

Public Affs. Offen

Telephone Rm.

Director's Secy -

НИ 55066

Item 1 - Jack Brown

Item 3 - Hunter Pitts O'Dell

Item 5 - Robert DePugh

Item 11 - Robert Hood Strader

Item 12 - Raymond Starns

Item 13 - Jerome Conforto

Item 20 - Charles Calvin Bookman

Item 28 - Jeri Salkin

Item 34 - Roderic Burns Duff

Item 42 - William K. Shearer

Item 43 - Robert Walters

MAIL ROOM

TBLETYPE UNT O

DooId:32989753

Page 95

Item 47 - Frank Marullo

ORIGINAL AND ONE SEND TO ASCISTANT

ATTORNEY GEUPAI

CRIMINAL DIVISIC!

ATTENTION: MR. ROPERA L. TATOE

SEE MORE PAGE 3

62-117290-459

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 96

HOUSE SELECT COITITITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Item 49 - Listed extronist organizations

'Item 50 - (a) Ilberty Lobby

(c) The Flory Cross

- (e) The Silver Dollar GrouD

Identification Division records, which may or may

not be identical to the above individuals, were located, except

for Items 28, Jer1 Salkin, Item 43, Robert Walters, and Item 47,

Frank Marullo.

Other than references in the FBI's HURKIN

Investigation, no identifiable Information could be located

In FBINQ files, including the Identification Division,

concernine the below individual.

These MURKIN references

are available for HSCA access at FBIHQ.

Item 16 - AIlan O. Thompson

Files of FBIRQ contain no Identifiable information

concerning the following individuals.

A search of FBIHQ files

on these Individuals was based on the limited Identifying

Information provided by the ISCA In 1ts letter of January 26,

1978:

Item 18 - James E. Morrison

Item 25 - Lce Wilkinson

Item 31 - Robert Taylor, aka Bob Taylor

Item 33 - Richard Gonzales

Item 35 - R. J. Weiler

Item 45. = Robert J. Ròe

Concerning the above Individuals, Identification

Division records, which may be identical, were located only for

Item 18, James E. Morrison, and Item 25, Lee Wilkinson.

With respect to Item 3, Hunter Pitts O'Dell, HSCA

Staff Attorney Mark Speiser, agreed on rebruary o, 1918, that

Information in FBINO files

should be processed on

O DeLl Only

for the years 1967-1968.

= 2=

H₩ 55066

DocId: 32989753 Page 96

---

## Page 97

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA).

Regarding Item 5, Robert DePugh, on April 5, 1978,

Mr. Speiser advised that DePugh's main file (100-449975) need

only be processed for the years (1967-1968) and that it was not

necessary to process

a multi-volume bank robbery Investigation

of DePugh (91-28872) conducted during 1967+1968.

Referenced FBI memorandum dated March 3, 1978,

advised that Information concerning Item 9, Thomas Tarrants,

was processed and avallable for ASCA access.

Following receipt

of additional identifying data regarding Tárrants, a recheck

of FBIHQ files produced voluminous Information regarding him.

On March 14, 1978, Mr. Spelser advised that this additional

material concerning Tarrants could be limited to that file

within the period 1967-1968. This material has been processed,

and on March 30, 1978,

HSCA staff member Gerald Hamilton was

telephonically advised that It was available for review.

Mr. Hamilton was also advised on March 30, 1978, that the

voluminous material in response to Item 49, listed extremist

organizations, had been processed and was avallable for

ESCA review at FBIHQ.

This letter completes response to HSCA request

of January, 26, 1978.

See Director, FDI, letter to Assistant Attorney Ceneral:

Criminal Division, Attention:

Hr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

1/11/73, captioned, Eouse

Select Committee on Assassinations,

•U. S. House of Representatives (ESCA).

3

1N 55066 DocId: 32989753

Page 97

---

## Page 98

LEXIIS STOKES, CATTO, CHAINMASE

піснаційоліви, чьЕ.

DiALIUM R. 8499000-95.095.

(11-80008.E4L1P

85172, СЕНН.

phooel: 9604509594160

ротчат ї

88FMANT П. P6E4-IAНН1Y, СОТСЬ.

CHLAPLLS TIMON.

MAMOLAG. LAMY.

+(202) 225-4658

Sclect Commillee on Assis.

-..ations

T.ío. Monse of Licpreseniatives

8338 HOUSE. OFFICE BUILDING, UNNEX 2

'BASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

January 26, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

ittorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

: Attention:

Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney General:

In connection with this Comnittee's investigation of

the circunstances surrounding the assassination of DI. Martin

Luther King, JI., we would approciate your assistance in

oblaining access to any files or records in the possession

of the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau

of Investigation, relating to the individuals and organizations

noted below:

1. With respect to the Dry Inforcement saministration:

1)

Charles Jogaph Stein

Date of Birth:

5/11/29

FBI MURDE

881-534-B

Anthony Chasies DeCarvelho

EOEN: A921

Residence: New Orleans

B. With respect to the federal Bureau of Investigation:

1) Jack BrOwN

Chattanooga, Tennessee

27

Lester lee Cross

Date of Birth:

2/23/15

S.S.N.: 410-78-8096

2165 or 2155 Clarksdala

Memphis, Tennessee

3)

Huntcr Pitts O'Dell

retsizan

62-117290-659

ENCLOSURE

HH

55066 DocTa: 32989755 Tafe: 98

:

---

## Page 99

The Honorable

January 26, 1978

Pagc

ffin B. Bell

Earnest Donnell

Denham Springs, Louisiana

5) Robert Delugh, Norborne, Missouri

Head of the Minutemen organization

Sidney Barnes

• 1378 East Riviera Drive

Mobile, Alabama (1968)

7)

"Maxey Ted"

New Orleans, Louisiana

8)

Eddie Sopcjack

Date of Birth: 8/14/29

FBI Number:

186-485A

9)

10)

11)

• 12)

13)

14)

15)

16)

17)

Thomas Tarrants

Samuel Caccamechi

Meriphis, Tennessee

Robert llood Stradcr

Lexington, Illinois

Raymond Starns

King Davia Apartments, Apt.

2816 David Drive

Metairie, Louisiana (1968).

Jerome

• Confor.to

New Orleans, Louisiana

Joseph Conforto

New Orleans, Louisiana (now deceased)

Leonard Scott DelMonte

1229 North Bronson Street

Los Angelos, California

Allan O. Thompson

Date of Birth: 12/25/13

DI. Russcll C. Hadley

Date of Birth: 8/18/09

96 Moscow Road

Monto Rio, California

HH 55066

DocTd:32989753 Page, 99

---

## Page 100

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Fage 3

18)

James E. Morrison

Los Angeles, California

19)

Dr. Mark. 0. Freeman

Beverly Hills, California

20) Charles Calvin Bookman

Date of Birth:

9/6/13

FBI Number:

892-355

21) Rodney Arvidson

• Date of Birth: 1/19/23

Post Office Box. 2820

Long Beach, California

22)

Tomas Reyes Lau

Date of Birth: 10/5/23

2047 Lemoyne

Los Angeles, California

23)

Roy Emory Hargraves

Ba once, carport presto and hemale repeat /e/s

21) Raymond M. Murphy, aka "Fido"

Los Angeles, California

25) Lee Wilkinson

Los Angeles, California

26) Roman Kohnke

Los Angeles, California

27) Paul Lyon

Los Angeles, California

28) Jeri Salkin

Los Angeles, California

29)

Ronald G. Hewitson

Garden Grove, California

30) Pat Olson.

Date of Birth: 7/21/42

Quantico, Virginia

•

55066

DocId: 32989753

Page

100

---

## Page 101

• The, Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 1

31) Robert Taylor, aka Bob Taylor

Los Angeles, California

32)

Ronald Dennino

aka Ronald Gerald Dennino

Inmate at California State Prison

at San Quentin (1967 - 1968)

33)

Richard Gonzales

Los Angeles, California

34) Roderic Burns Duff

Monrovia, California

1968 President of Los Angeles Chapter

of Citizens Council of America

35) R. J. Weiler

Los Angeles, California

36)

Elizabeth Ann De Rouen

Date

of Birth: 2/17/43

SSN:

JFK Act 6 (3)

Los Angeles, California

37) Debbie Gold

Los Angeles, California

38) David Gregory

Buena

Parl, California

39)

Rev. Xavier Von Koss

Hermora Beach, California

40)

Robert Harold Gray

Los Angeles, California

41)

Robert Kecley

Los Angeles, California

42)

William K. Shearer

ala Bill Shearer

3166 Palm

Iemnon Grove, California

43) • Robert Walters

Los Angeles, California

IN 55066 DogTa:92989753 Page. 101

---

## Page 102

• "Tha lionorablo Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 5

44)

George hanum

Los Angeles, California

-.*

45)

Robert J. Roe

Beverly Hills, California

46)

Pamela Dillon

LoS Angeles, California

47)

Frank Marullo

New Orleans, Louisiana

48)

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

Ku Klux Kian for the cities of Jacksonville

and Miami, Florida for the period 1966.

through 1968.

49)

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

the following organizations for the perioa

1966 through 1968 for the cities of New

Orleans, Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama;

• Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois;

Atlanta, Georgia; Los Angeles, California;

and the State of

Mississippi:

a) Black Panthers

•b) Black Muslims

c)

American Nazi Party

d) Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee

50)

Subfiles and/or investigative reports for

the period 1966 - 1968 for the following

organizations:

: *

a) ' Liberty Lobby

b)

The sword

c) The Fiery Cross

d) The White Camelia

e) The Silver Dollar Group

Your prompt cooperation will be most appreciated:

Very truly yours,

M. Nobet Blabsen

G. Robert Blalicy

Chief Counsel and Dircctor

GRB: msd

•CC :

Danny Coulson

in 5066 DocId: 32989753 Page-102

---

## Page 103

FOBERT WEDA, PR.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMA

SAMUEL L

"NE, ONIO

SHETLES PHONE MENEY, CONN

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

REC.

C1u

4/74/98

FIDERAL GOVARTMENT!

Select Committee on Assassinations

ErS. Ipouse of Hepresentatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515'

April 13, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

• Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jx., the assistance of the FBI is requested in

regard to the following matters:

1) Access to all BUFILE and Subfiles on an individual

named DEVILISH NIK aka DEVOURS NIX.

The above individual is referenced in BUFILE, 157-4416.

2) Access to all BUFILE and Subfiles on the White knights

of the Ku Klux Klan of Mississippi for the period

1967 through 1968.

3)

Access to all BUFILE and Subfiles on the following

individuals for the enumerated periods:

a.

Robert Shelton, Tuscaloosa, Alabama, Imperial

Wizard, United Klans of America (period: 1967-

1969).

b.

Melvin A. Sexton, Tuscaloosa, Alabama, Imperial

Klaliff,

United Klans of America (period:

2672,

1969) •

ST. 114

RE66562-117290-

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

0.11r

37:14411

23 APR 19 1978

HH

35T60 MAY 1 5 1978

DocId: 32989753

Page 103

---

## Page 104

-=.*

and.

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

April• 13, 1978

Page 2

4)

C.

James Venable, Stone Mountain, Georgia, Imperial

Wizard, National Knights of the Ku Klux Klan

(period: 1961 - 1968) .

Delivery of the following BUFILE serials:

44-38861 - 5120

44-38861 -

5121

44-38861 - 5137

44-38861 - 2588

As time is of the essence, we would appreciate your prompt

attention

to this matter.

Sincerèly,

1. Robus. Blalsey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and

Director

GRB: ghd

vec:

J. Aldhizer

Danny Coulson..

NW 55066

DocId: 32989753

Page

104

---

## Page 105

0-93

(7-19.77)

069

PAGE

DATE

OF F

4/24/78

—M-M

A-R

•p-$

' DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATION MESSAGE FORM

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLAS EF TO

-

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

START MERE

SOMM

FM

DIRECTOR FBI C62-117290}

Cjo.

TO FBI LOS ANGELES ROUTINE

BT

14.

UNCLAS E F.T O

LHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAL

12

HSCA, BY LETTER APRIL 13: 1938653

REQUESTED THAT THE

COMMITTEE BE FURNISHED A COPY OF ALL MATERIAL IN THE LOS ANGELES

10 FIELD OFFICE FILES REGARDING "COBRAT AND/OR "FREE RIGHT."

LOS ANGELES IS REQUESTED TO SEARCH INDICES, LOCATE

8 _XEROX ANY IDENTIFIABLE MATERIAL REGARDING ABOVE-MENTIONED

SUBJECTS, AND PROVIDE A COPY OF THIS MATERIAL TO FBIHQ,

_ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT

DIVISION, BY COB. MAY 3, 1978.

LBT

ST. 114

62-117290-652

REC- 13

2

24, APR 28 1978

ABRACE THRESTSE

APPROVED BY

DO NOT TYPE MESSAGE BELOW THIS LINE

APRICTED BIST-CA

DATE

• ЛОВ/РГМ чс}

4/24/78

ROOM

8988/4

TELE EXT.

3653

MR. FOSTER

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

ITL I

APR 2 4 1978

2052702

TELETYPE

DO NOT TYPE

: RAST THIS LINE

рефінаероке

~ MAY 1 6 1978

× 53069

Docid: 32989753 Page 105

FBI DO!

---

## Page 106

5470-000

-

TELETYPE TO FBI LOS ANGELES PAGE THO

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NOTE: By Bucal to Los Angeles April 21, 1978, Los Angeles

advised that indices reflect main file

and numerous references re "Free Right n757-7201) re

"COBRA"

Los Angeles was advised

that written request for this infornation would be forthcoming.

H# 55066

DocId: 32989753 Page

106

---

