# docid-32291514

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10207-10290

RECORD SERIES: HQ.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 166-4355-120

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SULLIVAN, JOHN G.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

'PAGES:

DATE: 01/31/1972

SUBJECTS:

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, FUG, ASSOC,

WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSICATONS: Unclasified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

D&dId: 32291514

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL

UREAU OF INVE: TSATION

RE: CATING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIDIN

BOSTON

BOSTON

TITLE CF CASE

GUIGT

JASVANT

Vies

.,.

0.

#4536

VANCOCHIO,

aka-?li:

FRANK ANTHONY VELDITOLI, ara

REFERENCE:

SATE

1/31/72

11/17/71 - 1125/72

FEFORTMiDE EY

17001

SULA

IVAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

8-11-69

ITAR-GAMZUANG

1 2 14:22

Report Di SA FORN S. SULLIVAN, dated 11/5/71,

at Boston.

Chicazo airtal to Boston, 11/17/71. (I0)

Zoston latter to Baitinore daied 11/23/71. (20)

Baltimore letter to Zoston, 1/18/12. (IC)

Boston teletype to Bureau, 1/21/72.

-?.

2013

C

SONVIC /AUTO.I

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CIAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARTE

COFIESMADEI

3 Bureau

(166-4357)

-USA,

Providence,

R.

I.

1-Departmental Attorney EDMAND I.

HARRINGTON,

JR.,

Boston,

Mass.

I-Departmental Attorney MICHAEL LEVIN,

Providenca,

R. I.

2- Chicago

(166-1572)

2- Bos ton

(166-845)

Di

emination Record of Attrched Resort

"Agency

Reguest Pred.

Däte Frid.

Hon Fud:

CC, AAG,| Cr1minal D1x15100,

anized Crime & Racketeerin

S90t1

3229141

469722 N/22

Page

2

FA NONE

RECOVERIES

LACALS I

CASE HAS BEEY:

ENDINGOVER CHE VELA YES EViO

PENDING PROSECUTICN

OVER SIXIMONIME

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

16614355-120

REC-56

EX-112

7 FEB 3 1072

Notations

SUP,

Nite

CiTe: 1960,20- 793-583

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS. 166-845

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue investigation

in an effort to determine if subject MANOCCHIO is in contact

with MAX INSERRO, 396 Commonwealth Lane, Elmhurst, Ill.

BOSTON

AT BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS. Will continue to

coordinate efforts

to bring about the apprehension of

subject MANOCCHIO.

Will follow and report further prosecutive action

re subject VENDITUOLI.

ADMINISTRATIVE

on 11/1/71, BS 769-PC advised SA DENNIS M. CONDON

that ALBERT HORRIGAN,

Attorney and close associate of

GENNARO J. ANGIULO, has been contacting SANTO DIAPERIO at

Walpole State Prison, Walpole, Mass.

Atty. HORRIGAN

believes that he can

help RAYMOND PATRIARCA beat his murder case in Providence

R. 1. HORRIGAN wantS DIAFERIO to testify that he was with

KELLEY at some other location at the time KELLEY says

he was speaking with RAYMOND PATRIARCA.

not to have to testify, told HORRIGAN that he, DIAFERIO,

was out of state at a

motel at the time they wanted him

to allege he was with KeLLeY.

He told HORRIGAN that the

law would find the notel records and show that he was

committing perjury. HORRIGAN told DIAFERIO not to be

concerned as hotel records would not be in existence, going

back three or four years.

Informant said that DIAFERIO

will not testify for PATRIARCA and has

already told them

that he does not want to go up against JACK KELLEY aS KELLEY

has

"too much on him.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291514

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont.)

By communication dated 11/17/71, the Chicag

nave produces negative resuits re location oi subject

one advise a contact,

Office advised that contact with CG 7190-C and CG 7287-C-TI

MANOCCHIO.

Chicago advised that a recently developed

source on the Cicero, Ill. PD has been contacted on a

nighly confidential basis

alert for the possibility of NANOCCHIO being in the Cicero

BS 769-PC advised SA DENNIS M. CONDON, on 12/14/71,

Informant advised there is no question that MANOCCHIO, who

is reportedly in the New York area, has been in touch with

FRANK SALEMME and STEVE FLEMMI.

BS 1745-PC advised SA ALBERT P. KOEHLER, on

12/6/71, that PETER BARILE is supposed to testify in

court for FRANK VENDITUOLI but the details of his testimony

are unknown at this time. Informant said that BARILE

in informant's opinion,

is not going to testify in this

case as the case is too big.

On 1/3/72, BS 1745-PC advised SA KOEHLER that

VENDITUOLI's attorney. changed his mind about using

BARILE as a witness in the pending trial concerning VENDITUOLI.

On 11/17/71, GENNARINO JOHN DE LUCA (PROTECT EY

REQUEST), 168 Glenwood Avenue, Pawtucket, R. I., advised

that he has not heard any Information concerning the

whereabouts of subject MANOCCHIO, but he is continuing

in his efforts to uncover information re whereabouts of

MANOCCHIO.

Lengthy investigative period noted but this. case

has been kept in a pending status through interoffice

communications.

COVER_ PAGE

DocId: 32291514

Page 1

---

