# docid-32989665

## Page 1

File #:

62-40-116395

Serial Scope:

EBF 875

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA#_N/A

NH 55253

DooId:32989665 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1T4sr9 jean de? alo

• :

9/74/23

..

-

ON MULERIC NOTES (SuC)

*e/20/75

=2

: oR 950 Got CD% Bccocials.

includ

For 1:

in

1.20 15

00104 Zor de coconu

is de ca ne

• f??: Ca.

-r.t..

Froe 16

AZI INPORKATION CONTATNED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEr

DATE12/12/00B SP-2ALM/HG

HM 55253

DooId: 32989665

Page 2

---

## Page 3

sse8/26/318 request

Part I, Item 2, i

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITI

DATE /2/18/00 BY SP-7 HON

1989661 Page 3-

---

## Page 4

SSC 8/26/75 REQUEST

Part I, Item 2, I

Retain Copy

AMDR16

MTTRIPNATION CONTAINED

LISOSPZAMIE

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 4

---

## Page 5

STUNET

Airtel

To:

From:

DOWNGRADED TO

z94n79TI

Dare S/12916

SACs, New York (157-1677)

WEO

Director,

FBI (100-448180)

ROY EMILE ALFREDO

INNIS

RM - CORE

July 19, 1971

1 - Mr. Wannall

-Mr.

Young

1 - Mr. Glass

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Bureau Source 6, has advised that Innis, National

countries including Kenya, Tanzania, and Guinea. The purpose

of the delegation is not known; it will be in Africa 7/29/71.

Information from Bureau Source 6 is classified

"'Top Secret," is not to be dissemtnted, and no inquiry

1s to be conducted which vill indicate that the Bureau

is in possession of this information.

MAILED 3

WFO check passport records regarding Innis and

JUL 1Eadvise

New York and the Bureau of the results.

•FBI

New York be alert for public source material and

alert sources tofurnish any information received regarding

Innis.

If Information from Bureau Source 6, 1s independently

verified and if the activities of this delegation are of interest

to the Bureau with regard to racial matters or any other matter

olson

elt

within our jurisdiction, the information should be submitted

ullivan

uht

ishop -

In form suitable fox dissemination: 140-478/50-

ronnan, C.D.

6283

allatran

aspser

CEG : ekw

MY 2'BEC EC1

onrad

albeg

(8)

inle

monder

EX-109EE EE NOTE PAGATIO_

0301

lavel

othere = 5

-7 00L 22107

19 JUL 19 1971

[olmess..

andy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT_

SECRET

HH 55253

DooId: 32989665

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

Airtel to SACs, New York, WEO

RE: ROY EMILE ALFREDO INNIS

100-448180

NOTE:

CORE is a militant racial group. Because of the

size of the delegation led by Innis, it appears that

publicity will be given the group and New York is being

alerted to report the activity in the event it is of

interest within our jurisdiction.

:

-2 -

J8E SEGRET

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SSC 8/26/75 REQUEST

Part Im Item 2,1

( Retain

• сору)

#ток 16

ATI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 141 600 IN SP-2 AHM-HE

875

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 7

---

## Page 8

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 8

---

## Page 9

July 19, 1971.

Airtel

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Young

1 - Mr. Glass

To:

From:

SACS,

New York (157-1677)

WrO

Director,

FBI (100-448180)

ROY EMILE ALFREDO INNIS

RM - CORE

PERSONAL ATTENTION

INFORMANT

Bureau Source

Sahas advised that Innis, Nacional

Director of the Congress of Racial Equality, 1s leading an

80 member delegation to East Africa where they are to visit

countries including Kenya, Tanzania, and Guinea. The purpose

of the delegation is not known; it wi!l bo in Africa 7/29/71.

informant

Information from Bureau Source Glis classifted

"Top Secret," is not to be dissemited, and no inquiry

is to be conducted which will indicate that the Bureau

is in possession of this information.

MAILED 3

WFO check passport records regarding Innis and

JULIEadVise

New York and the Bureau of the results.

•FBI

New York be alert for public source material and

alert sources tofurnish any information received regarding

gier

Innis.

Tolson.

Felt .

Sullivan

Bishop

Prosnan,

C.D.

• Cellenan

Casper

Conrad.

Dalbe!

Gale

Ponder

Rosen

Tavel

salters -f

Tele. Rooms

He mes

tiands"

informant

If information frombureau source is indaperdently

verified and 1f the activities of this delegation are of interest

to the Bureau with regard to racial natters or any other batter

within our jurisdiction, the information should be submitted.

in form suitable for dissemination. !!: 4/%

REC 17

CEG :ektr

(8)

1214

+ 30L 22107

MAIL ROOMI

TELETYPE UNITL

147 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 9 3m=

EX 109EE NOTE PAGINED ASS

1E JUL 19 1971

w0s1e62518

---

## Page 10

Airtel to SACs, New York, WRO

RE: ROY EMILE ALFREDO INNIS

100-448180

NOTE:

CORE is a militant racial group. Because of the

size of the delegacion ind by Innis, it appears that

publicity will be given th. group and New York is being

alerted to report tha activity in the event it is of

interest within our jurisdiction.

MH 55253

Doold: 32989665

Page

10

---

## Page 11

: ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(ARRIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/18/00BY STAIN

WILLIAM CHARLES AYERS

William Charles Ayers is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

He is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4366.

Ayers, born December 26, 1944, at Oak Park, Illinois,

is a graduate of the University of Michigan where he was

active in the organization Students for a Democratic Society.

Ayers joined the revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and

participated in several violent and destructive Weatherman

demonstrations in Michigan and Illinois.

He went into the

Weatherman underground in approximately February, 1970.

Ayers has used the following aliases:

Bill Ayers

BInd Blair

Bob Jordan

..Daniel. White

Ayers has the following relatives:

Thomas G. Ayers, Sr. (Father)

Mary Andrew Ayers (Mother)

111 East Chestnut Apartment 29D

Chicago, Illinois

60611

Telephone: (312) 337-2374

199 Montclair Avenue

Glen Ellyn, Illinois 60137

Telephone:

(312) 469-1233

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is-the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

55253 DocId:32989665 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Richard James Ayers (Brother)

(Address unknown)

Fugitive deserter, believed

to be in Vancouver, Canada

John Ayers (Brother)

199 Montclair Avenue

Glen Ellyn, Illinois 60137

Telephone: (312) 469-1233

Thomas G. Ayers, Jr.

Also known as Tim Ayers

350- Willard North

San Francisco, California

Telephone:

(415) 752-9372

Catherine Allen (Sister)

28 Donna Road

Chelmsford, Massachusetts

94106

01824

...

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 12

---

## Page 13

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

#mDR16

HERZIN IS UPICLASSIFIES

LAWRENCE DAVID BARBER 7 12/18/00 BYSP-LALM

-Läwrence David Barber is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal Selective Service laws.

Barber, born February 25, 1950, at New York City, attended

Columbia University where he was involved in student dis-

orders in 1968 sponsored by Students for a Democratic Society.

Barber'was active in the violence-prone Weatherman group

in New York City in 1969 and eacly 1970, and participated

in several destrucive demonstrations sponsored by Weatherman.

The whereabouts of Barber has been unknown since April, 1972.

Barber has used the following aliases:

David Barber

David Barbour

Barber has the following relatives:

Alfred Barber (Father)

Tess Barber (Mother)

: 324 East Oliver Street

Long Beach, New York

11561

Telephone:

(516) GE 1-2557

Rebecca « Weiner (Aunt)

324 East Oliver Street

Long beach, New York

11561

Telephone:

(516) 432-1093

Debbie Weiner (Grandmother)

56 7th Avenue

New York, New York 10011

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

TIt

is the property of the fBl and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES.

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SILAS TRIM BISSELL

JUDITH EMILY BISSELL

FMDE16

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

DATELE 18/00 BYSP-JALM

Silas Trim Bissell and Judith Emily Bissell

are

Federal fugitives charged with violating Federal firearms

and conspiracy laws.

The Bissells are the subjects of FBI

Identification Order Number 4401. Silas and Judith Bissell

are a

married couple.

He was born April 27, 1942 at Grand

Rapids, Michigan, and she was born March 6, 1944, at New York

City.

Both attended the University of Michigan and subse-

quently moved to the Seattle, Washington, area where, as

nonstudents, both were active in Students for a Democratic

Society at the University of Washington. As members of

the Seattle Weatherman Collective in late 1969, both were

deeply involved in destructive activities of Weatherman

targeted against

ROTC facilities at the University of

Washington.

Silas Bissell has used the following alias:

Trim Bissell

Judith Bissell has used the following aliases:

Judy Bissell

Juaith

SIfI

The Bissells, have the following relatives:

Benjamin and Eleanor Siff

(Parents of Judith Bissell)

175 West 13th Street

• New York City, New York

Telephone (212) 242-1134

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE•

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 14

---

## Page 15

ài a

Wadsworth and Hillary Bissell

(Parents of Trim Bissell)

Route 3

Yankee Springs Road

Middleville, Michigan

Telephone:

(616) 695-3535

(Currently staying at Boqueron,

Puerto Rico, mail being receivea

c/o General Delivery, Boqueron)

David Siff

(Brother of Judith Bissell)

Leggett Road

Ghent, New York

Daniel Siff.

(Brother of Judith Bissell)

70 West 95th Street

New York City, New York

Telephone:

(212) 749-7008

Brereton Bissell

(Brother of Silas Bissell)

• 101 Carlisle Street

New Haven, Connecticut

Telephone: (203) 624-3090

Torre Bissell

(Brother of Silas Bissell)

Box 277

Monrovia, Liberia

West Africa

Telephone unknown

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 15

---

## Page 16

KATHIE BOUDIN

AbI; INFORMATTON CONTAINED

C UACSASSIFIED

DARE 18100 EX SP 2 AUNT

Kathie Boudin is being sought by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI) as a fugitive in connection with her .

unlawful flight to avoid prosecution for mob action and for

violation of Federal Anti-Riot Laws, the National Firearms

Act and Bombing Matters based on indictments returned by

Federal Grand Juries in the Northern District of Illinois and

•the Eastern District of Michigan.

Boudin was born May 19, 1943, In New York, New York.

Following graduation from high school in New York City she

attended Bryn Mawr College from 1961 to 1965 when she gradu-

ated with BA degree, Magna Cum Laude.

school in 1961 at the University of California and New York

University in the Summer of 1963. She studied in France and

England during the Summer of 1960 and spent her senior year

of college (1964-1965) studying at

Moscow University, Moscow,

USSR.

Boudin is believed to have used the following aliases:

Kay Lavon Kennedy

Janet Patricia Scott

Boudin has the following immediate relatives:

Parents

Brother

Father-Leonard

• Boudin

Mother-Jean Roisman Boudin

12% St. Lukes Place

New York, New York

212-924-3136

Michael Boudin

1548 18th Street, Northwest

Washington, D. C.

202-293-3300-business

This document contains neither recommendation

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed

outside

your agency.

:

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Re:

KATHIE BOUDIN

The following individuals are considered possible

contact points of Boudin:

Constance Warren Brown

280 Riverside Drive

-New York, New York

212-222-4494

Corina Friedel Fales

328 West 12th Street

New York, New York

>12-989-2408

Jennifer Gardner

452 Elizabeth Street

an Francisco, CallIornIa

175-285-87951

. A source, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, advised that during April, 1973, he had observed

in Havana, Cuba, an individual whom he believed to be identical to

Kathie Boudin.

On February 10, 1973, a second reliable source advised

that Leonard Boudin had recently made a statement that Kathie

Boudin was

at that time in Cuba.

It is noted that Leonard Boudin, who has made several.

trips to Cuba, is the registered representative of the Cuban

Government in the United States and is a nationally known civil

rights attorney.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY

AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND

INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

-2-

H# 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 17

---

## Page 18

PETER

WALES CLAPP

EAR 12/90 STEP-2 ALM,

serio

On May 19, 1969, Peter Wales Clapp was arrested

by the Niagara Falls, New York, Police Department and charged

with 22, 19710n of dangerous drugs in the third degree.

an authorized complaint was filed and federal

warrant issued by the United States Magistrate Ednond F.

Maxwell, Western District of New York at Buffalo, New York,

charging Peter Wales Clapp unlawfully fled the State of

New York to avoid prosecution for the crime of criminal

•possession of a dangerous drug, in violation of United States

• Code, Title 18, Section 1073.

Clapp was one of the leaders of the Students for

a Democratic Society (SDS) at Columbia University, New York

City, 1966-1969 and a close associate of Weatherman fugitive

Mark Ruda.

s0tn Clapp

and Rudd were involved in the SDS

inspired disorders at Columbia University during 1968

During the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in Chicago in October,

1969, Clapp was arrested.

Investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation

has not developed any information indicating that Peter Wales

Clapp has utilized any particular alias.

The following is a complete list of the immediate

relatives of Peter Wales Clapp:

Father •

Mother

Edwin J. Clapp

• Jeanne I. Clapp

Bangkok, Thailand

Brother

Nelson T. Clapp

• 3 Bay Tree Lane

Bethesda, Maryland 20016

Telephone number (301) 229-

5944

Brother

John T. Clapp

International Meditation Society

2127 Leroy Place, Northwest

Washington, D. C. 20008

Telephone number (202) 387-

5050

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 18

---

## Page 19

Peter Whales Clapp

Grandmother

Mrs. Phillip Thayer

926 Bloomfield Avenue

Glen Ridge, New Jersey

07028

Telephone number (201) 748-

5423

Uncle

Phillip H. Thayer, JI.

16 Yorke Road

Convent Station, New Jersey 079=

Telephone number (201) 267-

6306

While residing with his parents in Taiwan during

1964-65, Clapp began learning the Chinese language: Also,

while at Columbia University subject majored in Oriental

studies. Clapp may be hiding in a country that has Oriental

culture..

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 19

---

## Page 20

ATE INFORMAXION CONFAINIO

UNGLASSITIN

BERNARDINE RAE DOHRN

Bernardine Rae Dohrn is being sought by

the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as a fugitive

in connection with her unlawful flight to avoid prosecution

for mob action, a felony in the state of Illinois, for

involvement in

a conspiracy to violate the Federal

Anti-Riot laws and for involvement in a conspiracy to

unlawfully possess or receive firearms.

Dohrn is the most prominent of the Weatherman

fugitives.

Her leadership of the Weatherman group has

carried over from the pre-underground period to the present

She has been the author of several Weatherman

communiques from the underground.

Dohrn was born in Chicago, Illinois, and attended

high school in Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, where she graduated

in June, 1959. Thereafter she attended Miami University of

Ohio and then the University of Chicago. She holds three

degrees, a BA, June, 1963; Masters, June, 1964; and J. D.

degree, June, 1967, all from the University of Chicago.

After leaving the University of Chicago in 1967, she was

employed by the National Lawyer's Guild in New York City

where she was student director.

In June, 1968; Dohrn was elected a national officer

of SDS.

In her capacity as National Interorganizational

Secretary of SDS she traveled widely in this country and

abroad.

In the fall of 1968, she and other student leaders

went to Budapest, Hungary, to

meet' with VietCong representatives.

In July, 1969, Dohrn traveled to Cuba with other SDS leaders

and again met

representatives of the Vietcong.

In June, 1969, Dohrn was elected to the National

Interim Committee of SDS, Weatherman faction. It was at this

time that SDS split into factions and Dohrn was a leader of

the Weatherman faction.

During Weatherman disorders in the

• fall

of 1969, Dohrn was arrested and charged with mob action and

assault

on police officers.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the

property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

55253 DooId: 32989665 Page 20

---

## Page 21

:

Her known aliases are Bernadine Dohrn, Bernardine

Rae Ohrnstein, and Lorraine Anne Jellins.

Her immediate relatives are as follows:

Father

Mother

Residence

Telephone

. Sister

• Residence

Bernard Richard Dohrn

Dorothy Rae Dohrn

1507 North Lake Drive

Sun City Center, Florida 33570

813-634-2811

Jennifer Ellen Dohrn

501 Eighth Avenue

Brooklyn, New York 11215

212-768-0565

Telephone

The following are considered to be most likely

contacts of Dohrn:

Friends

Residence

Ralph and Nancy Meyberg

*831 California Street

Santa Cruz, California 95060

• In view of her extensive foreign travel and reposts

received that she has been in Europe and Canada, it is

believed she is abroad.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

- 2

NH 55253 'DocId: 32989665

Page 21

---

## Page 22

= MORI6

ATLE INFORMATTON CONTAINED

TBREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAD

DATE /2/18/

00 BY SPEALM +776

JUDITH ANN FLATLEY, Nee Cohen

Judith Flatley became a Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) activist at the University of Wisconsin and there-

after became a well-known member of the Weatherman. She was

arrested October 9, 1969 during the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in

Chicago; local warrant at Chicago is outstanding for aggravated

battery.

She was arrested on forgery charges at Milwaukee on

October 29, 1970 and a Federal warrant for Unlawful Flight to

Avoid Prosecution-Forgery was issued

in connection therewith

March 6, 1972. Flatley was indicted May 9, 1972 by a Federal

Grand Jury (FGJ) at Milwaukee for the purchase of firearms using

false identification; she is also being sought in connection with

this charge.

Flatley is being sought by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

Her known aliases are Sharon Buck, Judith Cohen,

Judy Cohen, Mrs. David M. Flatley, Judith Flatley, Judy Flatley,

Dale Herrera, Margaret Joyce, Meredith Malmberg.

The following are immediate relatives of the above-

captioned

individual:

Benjamin Cohen

Father

1856 Manor Drive

Apartment B

Union, New Jersey 07083

Telephone Number 201-687-4698

Dora Cohen

1856 Manor Drive

Apartment B

Union, New Jersey

Telephone Number

Mother

201-687-4698

Henry B. Cohen

5859 Hobart Street

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Telephone Number 412-421-4392

Brother

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the ibt. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 22

---

## Page 23

**.

Re:

JUDITH ANN FLATLEY

David Michael Flatley

(whereabouts unknown)

Husband

Other individuals most likely to be contacted

by Flatley:

Michael Mc Dermott

Susan Bennett

51 Buchannon

Apartment 3-A

Bronx, New York 19403

Telephone Number 212-720-0427

Ronald J. Clarke

Residence:

956 W. Dickens Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

60614

Telephone Number 312-929-3703

Business:

110 S. Dearborn Avenue

• Chicago, Illinois

60603

Telephone Number 312-332-3221

Amy Louise Kirkland

1715 North Arlingion Place

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

53202

Telephone Number 414-224-0295

Sources

have advised that Flatley's speech is

extremely deliberate, precise,

slow, with a flat effect. She

seems to always measure her words and seems to be a very sober

and frightened individual in her speech.

Flatley along with a number of weatherman fugitives

is suspected of having residence in Canada or Cuba.

-

- 2 -

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 23

---

## Page 24

ALL INFORMATTON CONTAINED

HEREIN. IS UNATASSITIED

DATE 12/18/00BY SP-2 ALMATTE

RONALD DAVID FLIEGEIMAN

Ronald David Fliegelman is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal bombing

and conspiracy

laws: Fliegelman is the subject of FBI Identification

Order Number 4422.

Fliegelman, born June 27, 1944, at

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is a graduate of

Goddard

College in Vermont where he was active in the organization

Students for a Democratic Society.

Fliegelman joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and functioned as

a Weatherman leader in Michigan and Illinois.

Fliegelman,

who reportedly participated in more than 30 bombings,

went into the Weatherman underground in approximately July,

1970.

Fliegelman has used the following aliases:

Henry Skirball

Frank

Robert

Fliegelman has the following relatives:

Emanuel and Ruth Fliegelman

(Parents)

Residing in Israel

Specific location unknown

Marc Lee Fliegelman (Brother)

4924 Knox Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your

agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 24

---

## Page 25

JOHN ALLEN FUERST

AIL, INTORMATION CONTAINED

"EREEN IS UNCLASSIFIM

DATE 12)18 /00BYSK2ALKLLE

John Allen Fuerst is a Federal fugitive charged

with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution and with violating

Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Fuerst is the subject

of FBI Identification Order Number 4415. Fuerst, born

July, ,15, 1944, at New Rochelle, New York, Is a graduate

of Columbia University where he was active in the organization.

Students for a Democratic Society.

Fuerst joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and

participated in

several violent and destructive Weatherman demonstrations

in Illinois and Ohio.

He went into the Weatherman under-

ground in approximately February, 1970.

Fuerst has the following aliases:

Allan Friedman

Bill Friedman

Wälliam Allen Friedman

Allen Friedman

Jeremy Pikser

Fuerst has the following relatives:

Murray C. Fuerst (Father)

Ruth Fuerst (Mother)

130 Norman Road

New Rochelle, New York

. .

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 Do0Id:32989665 Page 25

---

## Page 26

DAVID JOSEPH GILBERT

#moRiG

AGI INTORMATION CONTAINED

David Joseph Gilbert is a Federal

fugitive charged

with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

Gilbert, born

October 6, 1944, at Cambridge, Massachusetts, is a graduate

of Columbia University where he was active in the organization

•Students for a Democratic Society. Gilbert joined the revo-

lutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and participated in

several violent and destructive Weatherman demonstrations

in New York and Colorado.

He went into the Weatherman under-

ground in approximately February, 1970.

Gilbert has used the following aliases:

Dave Gilbert

thomas Larsen

Gilbert has the following relatives:

Samuel Gilbert (Father)

Beatrice Wexler Gilbert (Mother)

26 Plowgate Road .

Chestnut Hill

Brookline, Massachusetts

02167

Telephone: (617) 469-0661

Brenda Gilbert (Sister)

Ruth Gilbert (Sister)

Location unknown

This document contains heither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) •

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 26

---

## Page 27

DR16

ATI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

DATE 12/18/00 BYSPF AL

LEONARD HANDELSMAN

Leonard Handelsman is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as a fugitive in connection

with his unlawful flight to avoid prosecution for mob action,

aggravated battery, and aiding escape. Handelsman has also

been charged with conspiracy for possession of unregistered

firearms and interstate transportation of explosives and

incendiary devices.

Handelsman was active in the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) at the University of Chicago, 1967-69, and was in

a Chicago Weatherman group the latter half of 1969..

Handelsman

was arrested by the Chicago police two times during August, 1959,

and on one occasion during Septmeber, 1969, in connection with

Weatherman disturbances. After the Weatherman "Days of Rage"

in Chicago during October, 1969, he moved to Cleveland where

he was active in a Weatherman group, until going underground

in the latter part of February, 1970.

Leonard Handelsman is also known as Lennie Handelsman,

Mark. Sarkady, Lenny Williams, and Lenny Wilkins.

His relatives are as follows:

Father

Hyman Handelsman

Mother •

Pauline Handelsman

Residence

Apartment 8H

283 Avenue C

New York, New York

Telephone

+ 212-777-0969

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR

VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its con-

tents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 55253 Do0Id:32989665 Page 27

---

## Page 28

RE :

LEONARD HANDELSMAN

Handelsman's most likely contact points are:

Aaron Marks, cousin, 47 North Fullerton Avenue,

Montclair, New Jersey, telephone 201-744-4911.

Debbie Weiner, Apartment 3K, 56 Seventh Avenue,

New York, New York, telephone 212-0R5-8129.

Handelsman, during the mid 1960's, studied Inter-

national Social Work, in South America, under a Woodrow

Wilson Fellowship, where Handelsman became "radicalized"

according to one of his college professors.

• It appears Handelsman may be outside the U. S.,

possibly in a Latin American country.

NN 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 28

---

## Page 29

#MOR16

ATI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIET

DATE 12/18/00 BUS PaZ. AtMO

JOHN GREGORY JACOBS

John Gregory Jacobs is being sought by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)

as a fugitive

in connection with his involvement in a conspiracy to

violate the Federal Anti-Riot Laws.

- Jacobs was born in New York City and attended

Columbia University there from September, 1965, through

He was very active in the Students for a

Jacobs affiliated with the Weatherman Faction of SDS and

he is one of the authors of the Weatherman statement, "You

don't need a weatherman to know which way the wind blows."

Jacobs was arrested in Chicago during Weatherman disorders

in October, 1969. Although Jacobs has not held national

office in the Weatherman group, he is considered a top leader

organizer and enforcer.

His known aliases are John Jacobson, Robert Carnie

Morgan, and Anthony Frank Rocco, JI.

His immediate relatives are as follows:

Father

Residence

Telephone

Brother

Residence

Douglas Montagu Jacobs

'Redding, Connecticut 06875

203-938-9312

Robert M. Jacobs

Unknown - believed to be

presently in Vancouver,

British Columbia area

The only other individuals considered as likely

contacts of Jacobs are also fugitives and their whereabouts

are unknown.

Jacobs along with a number of the Weatherman

fugitives is suspected of having residence in Canada.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is the property of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

HW 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 29

---

## Page 30

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOW ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 30

2

---

## Page 31

NAOMI ESTHER JAFFE

#MDRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UYATASSIFLED

118/00BXI

Naomi Jaffe is a member of the Weatherman faction

of the Students for Democratic Society (SDS) and attended the

most prominent national and regional conferences of SDS and

the Weatherman faction of SDs in the late 1960's and 1970..

- On or about December 27, 1969, members of the

Weatherman group, met in Flint, Michigan. Jaffe was part of this

group that reportedly planned to transport explosives in interstate

wounderstated

commerce with knowledge and intent that the explosives would be used

to injure persons and damage or destroy buildings, personal

property, and civic objectives.

On July 23, 1970, a Federal Grand Jury at Detroit,

Michigan, indicted Jaffe, and 12 others, for conspiracy, and

a Federal warrant for her arrest was issued on the same date.

This indictment was expanded on December 7, 1972, in that

Jarte and others were charged with conspiring to bomo various

police and military installations in several cities.

Jaffe has been convicted of battery, resisting, and

aggravated battery. She reportedly has been associated with

persons who advocate the use of explosives and may have acquired

firearms. She should be considered dangerous.

Her known aliases are: Nadine Jaffe, Myra

Novogrodsky, Mrs. William Safier, "Leona", Naomi Esther Safier,

Dolores Clementina Donnardio, Dolores Clementina Denardo.

The following is a list of Jaffe's immediate

relatives:

Parents

Abe and Syd Jaffe

Jaffe's Poultry Farm

Glen Wild, New

York

(914) 434-5410

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

WH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Brother

Uncle and Aunt

Uncle

Aunt

Uncle

Uncle and Aunt

Cousins

Father's cousin

Ex-husband

Bernard Jaffe

44 Wolfrey Avenue, Apartment

279

Toronto, Canada

466-4925

David and Ann Jaffe

Jaffe's Poultry farm

Glen Wild, New York

(914) 434-5410

Abe and Sadie Novogrodsky

' 1215 S.W. 15th Street

Miami, Florida

(305) 373-3205

Morris Feintuch

52 Marshall Road,

Yonkers, New York

Ida (Mrs. David) Levine

365 Division Street:

Amsterdam, New York

(518) 842-6783

Saul Schulman

11 Bucler Place

Bergenfield, New Jersey

Samuel and Esther Cutler

112 Roselyn Drive

Pittsfield, Massachusetts

Myra and Charles Novogroasky

33 Major Street

Toronto, Canada

Harola Shaftei

3040 Tremont

Allentown, Pennsylvania

William Irving Safier

Somcrest Stables

370 Som Center Road

Mayfield Village, Ohio

- 2 -

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Ex-father-in-law

Cousin

Seymour Safier

27000 Cedar Road

Beachwood, Ohio

Eugene Novogroäsky

• Montpelier, Vermont

(802) 229-9420

Cousin

Isidore Roy Cohen

Gracemere

Tarrytown, New York

• (914) 631-1263

The following is a list of individuals who are the

most likely contacts of Jaffe:

Lynn Perlman

150 East Seventh Street!

New York, New York

Dianne Donghi

23 Wensley Street, Apartment 2

Roxbury, Massachusetts

Lynn Laredo

145 Second Avenue, Apartment 10

New York, New' York

(212) 228-6567 (1970)

Jonathan, Freedman*

Community Action Training Center

805 Madison Street

Syracuse, New York

Reva and Harry Cohen

Apartment 7A

22 Fairview Avenue

Spring Valley, New York

(914) 356-7571

Robert Burlingham

2436 Prince Street

Berkeley, California

(415) 841-7704

-3 -

HH 55253 Do0Id:32989665 Page 33

---

## Page 34

r..

A ..

Marsha Steinberg

377 Norfolk Street

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Linda Evans

c/o Hopkins

Star Route

Morrilton, Arkansas

Wendy Jane Panken.

169 Bonview

San Francisco, California

Robert Portsche Ward

1614 East Mercer

Seattle, Washington

Linda Josefowicz

Brooklyn,

New York

The following is a description of Naomi Esther

Jaffe:

Date of birth

Place of birth

Height

e

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

Race

Nationality

June 26, 1943

Glen wild, New York

105 pounds

Medium

Dark brown, may be tinted red

Brown

Fair

. White

American

Jaffe's parents reside on a rural farm in New York

State at Glen Wild, New York. Jaffe has a number of relatives

including her brother Bernard, residing in Canada. Her relatives

in this country and Canada have been uncooperative and hostile

when contacted as to Jaffe's whereabouts.

Investigation

indicates that Jaffe has been in Canada or utilizing

Canadian relatives as intermediaries to maintain contact with

her family in New York State.

Thare have been a large number

of telephone toll calls between her relatives in both countries.

Jaffe's father has rented a light plane and traveled to Canada.

« 4.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 34

---

## Page 35

•**.

JEFFREY CARL JONES

7am DR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNASST FAIN

118/00BxS

DATE 13

Jeffrey Carl Jones is wanted by the Feueral

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as a result of a Federal

Grand Jury (FGJ) indictment returned on April 2, 1970,

for violation of Title 18, Sections 371 and 2101, United

States Code (USC.) •

Jones attended Antioch College, Yellow Springs,

Ohio, where he first became active in radical groups.

Jones

became involved in Students for a Democratic Society (SDS)

in 1966.

He went to New York in 1967 and worked there as

office manager of New York Regional SDS. Jones, with others,

traveled to Cambodia in 1967 and attempted to gain entry.

into. North Vietnam but was unsuccessful.

Jones was involved in the disorders incited by SDS

at Columbia University in New York in the Spring vi 1968 and

was arrested during those disorders.

It is noted that Jones

has been arrested on numerous occasions in various parts of

the country in connection with disorderly deironstrations.

In June, 1969, Jones was elected a national officer

of SDS (interorganizational secretary), at the time sos split

into Weatherman and Worker Student Alliance (WSA) factions.

Jones affiliated with the weatherman faction, and along with

Mark Rudd, Bernardine 'Dohrn, and Bill Ayers; Jones is a top

leader in the Weatherman group. Jones was a coauthor of the

Weatherman credo "You don't need a Weatherman to know which

way the wind blows." Jones was arrested several times in

Chicago in 1969 in connection with Weatherman demonstrations •

there, including an arrest during Weatherman "Days of Rage"

in October, 1969, on charges of battery and mob action.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF TREIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWA PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not be distributed

outside your agency.

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 35

---

## Page 36

RE:

JEFFREY CARL JONES

Jones went underground in early 1970 along with

the Weatherman leadership group.

In the underground he is

known 'to have been active in the San Francisco area in 1970

and

• 1971.

Jones has used the aliases of Norman Kenneth

Bailey and Duane Lee Compton.

Jones relatives are:

Father

Mother

...

Albert I. Jones

13949 Tyler Street

Sylmar, California

805-367-3176

•Mrs. Roger F. (Mildred)

O'Donnell

16635 West GazeLey

Saugus, Californai

805-251-0714

Brother

Eric Jones

13959 Tyler Street

sylman, California

An individual considered most likely to be contacted

by Jones is:

Dennis Dickson Cunningham, 2243 North Seminary,

Chicago, Illinois, 312-248-3574.

Jones, along with a number of other Weatherman

fugitives, is suspected of having residence in Canada.

A source reported seeing

an individual resembling Jones

in Cuba during April, 1973.

→..-

2-

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 36

---

## Page 37

ATI INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOLASSISIGD

DATE /2/18/00 BKS@2 ALTARTS

THOMAS MICHAEL JUSTESEN

Thomas Michael Justesen, who is wanted by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation for violation of Title 18,

U.S. Code, Section 371, for conspiracy to unlawfully injuré

proparty of the United States.

A federal warrant was issued

at Seattle, Washington, on April 16, 1970, in connection

with the aforementioned charge.

Justesen was active in Weatherman group in Seattle,

Washington, in 1969 and early 1970. In August, 1969, he was

selected by Mark Rudd, Weatherman fugitive, to represent

an anti-imperialist

conference in Tokyo, Japan, based on the leadership capacity

demonstrated by Justesen within the SDS chapter at the

University of Washington, Seattle, from 1968 to 1969.

• Justesen was arrested several times by local auth-

orities in Seattle in 1969 in connection with his participa-

tion in SDS sponsored disturbances there, most of which were

targeted against ROTC at the University of Washington.

On 2/17/70, Justesen was involved in a violent

Weatherman inspired demonstsation at the Seattle Federal

Building which resulted in personal injuries and extensive

damage to the building:

This demonstration was in protest

of the Antiriot Laws Trial of the "Chicago 8" in Chicago,

Illinois, which was pending at that time.

His known aliases are:.

Mike Justesen

Michael Thomas Justesen

His immediate relative is:

Margaret Justesen

• (Mother)

1310 Washington Avenue

Enumclaw, Washington

• 98022

Telephone 206-TA5-3060

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 37

---

## Page 38

RE:

THOMAS MICHAEL JUSTESEN

-Individuals most likely to be contacted by Justesen:

Elizabeth Skahill (aunt)

Route 3, Box 1397

sumner,

Washington

Telephone 206-UN3-7600

Roger Henry Lippman (friend)

121 - 13th Avenue East

Seattle, Washington

Telephone 206-EA5-5688

As his activities were in close proximity to

Canada, it is believed Justesen may be in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUARS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

Arise

2

HW 55253

DocId:32989665 Page

38

---

## Page 39

+MD216

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATEI2/1800 BYSPaALMTATE

CELESTE MAURINE MC CULLOUGH

Celeste McCullough is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation for her unlawful flight to avoid

prosecution for Mob Action, which offense occurred in

Chicago, Illinois, in October, 1969.

- McCullough became engaged in radical-type activity

at Pennsylvania State University during 1969.

At that time

she joined the Students for

a Democratic Society (SDS) and

became intimate with curcent Weatherman fugitive, Barry Phillip

Stein, who was President of the SDS at Pennsylvania State

University. McCullough was active in the SDS summer work-in

program in Columbus, Ohio, during 1969 where she was arrested on

8/12/69. On 9/20/69 she was arrested and charged with

disorderly conduct/assault on a police officer by the

Cleveland Heights Police Department. On 10/9/69, during

the Weatherman

"Days of Rage" in Chicago, she was arrested

and charged with Aggravated Battery, Resisting Arrest and.

Mob Action. On 12/20/69 she was arrested during a Weatherman

disturbance at the Severance Shopping Center in Cleveland

Heights.

Based on a local indictment charging "mob action"

• for which McCullough failed to appear concerning her arrest

on 10/9/69, an Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution for

Mob Action was filed 3/17/70 ät Chicago.

Her known aliases are Maureen Devlin, Dianne

Herzog (phonetic), and Kelly Green (phonetic) •

Her immediate relatives are:

Father

Mother

Sister

Brothers

John McCullough

Marie McCullough

Cecilia McCullough

Robert McCullough

Bryan McCullough

Keven McCullough

Residence

654 Arthur Street

Hazelton, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

T 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 39

---

## Page 40

The following are considered to be her most likely

contact points:

Nigel Gordan Dickens

414% West Tuscon

Flagstaff, Arizona

Lorraine Consuelo Rosal

45 Houghton Street

Sommerville, Massachusetts

Telephone:

628-4558

It is believed McCullough may be in Canada, as

the Weatherman fugitives have been in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCINDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

2

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 40

---

## Page 41

AAMDRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE / SO SEP ALM-1776

JEFFREY DAVID POWELL

Jeffrey David Powell is a Federal fugitive

charged with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

Powell, born September 23, 1950, at Akron, Ohio, was a

non-student Students for a Democratic Society activist

at Kent State University and subsequently joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group.

He functioned for

Weatherman in Ohio and Illinois and took part in several

violent Weatherman demonstrations in both states.

He

entered the Weatherman underground in approximately

February, 1970.

Powell has used the following aliases:

Jeff Donovan,

Roger William Hill

Powell has the following relatives:

Donald P. Powell (Father)

. 1037 Northeast

Talmadge, Ohio 44278

Telephone: 216-633=3748

Betty Jane Powell

(Mother)

1037 Northeast

Talmadge, Ohio

44278

Telephone:

216-633-3748

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 41

---

## Page 42

RE:

JEFFREY DAVID POWELL

Kevin Powell (Brother)

(same address as parents)

Donald A. Powell (Brother)

3838 Oneida Street

Stow, Ohio 44224

Telephone: 216-668-9645

Christina Powell (Sister)

(same address as parents)

Ann Penelope Powell (Sister)

Belvedere Hotel

319 West 48th Street

New York, New York

10036

2

I₩ 55253 DocId:32989665

Page 42

---

## Page 43

ROBERT HENRY ROTH

# mDe 16

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

OOBYSPL At

DATE/Z/LEY

Robert Henry Roth, white male, born March 3, 1950,

is being sought as a fugitive by the Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) for unlawful flight to avoid prosecution

for the crimes of Mob Action and Aggravated Battery, felonies

in the State of Illinois. A Grand Jury in Cook County,

Illinois, returned indictment number 69-3358 on October 31,

1969, charging Roth with the above violations.

Roth attended Columbia University (CU) and was

involved in the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS)

inspireâ disorders at CU in 1968. Roth was a close friend

of Mark Rudd, Weatherman fugitive, in the SDS chapter at

cu, and later worked with Rudd at the SDS National Office

in Chicago after moving to that city in June, 1969. Roth

was active in the Weatherman group in Chicago, Illinois,

in 1969

and early 197%

On

September 24, 1969, Roth was

arrested by the Chicago Police Department during Weatherman

disturbance at the Chicago Federal Building Plaza and

charged with Mob Action and Aggraved Battery.

Roth is also known as Robbie Roth, and Robby Roth.

Roth's parents are Joseph G. Roth and Martha

Thomas Roth, 5320 Little Neck Parkway, Little Neck, New York,

telephone number 212-225-5111. Roth has one brother, Daniel,

who resides with his parents. No contact points are

known.

It is believed Roth may be in Canada, as other

Weatherman fugitives have been in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACI AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FTREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It is the property of

• the FBI and

lis loaned to your agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 43

---

## Page 44

MARK WILLIAM RUDD

#MDRIG

ALL INFORMÄTION CONTAINED

DATE 12/18/00 Bx S

Mack William Rad is a Federal fugitive charged

with viola-ing Federal combing and conspiracy laws.

Rudd

is the subjuct of FBI Iãc-sification Order Number 4358.

Rudd, boin june 2. 1947.

• levington,. New Jersey, is a

graduate of Colurbia University where

he, in 1968, was the

leader of student iiscram sconsored by Students for a

Democratic Societ: I9DS:.

2ião, following his leadership

became known nationally,

joined the revoltionar. i terman group. Rudd took

part in violent and des:.

wire Weatherman demonstrations

and activities thrcughor.or

country until February, 1970,

when he entered the wea.tc.a

inderground.

Rudd has

used Following aliases:

Frank henry koch,

Marc Rudnitski

• Rudd has the siting relatives:

Parents:

Brother:

Jacob S. and Bertha Rudd

3? Washington Park

*Maglewood, New Jersey 07040

Telephone: 201-763-3834

David Rudd

294 West End Road

South Orange, New Jersey

07079

Telephone: 201-763-7610

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the federi Buleau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the int and is loaned to your agency; it

anã its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within you agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALE INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT. EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOW: ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISTRION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

55253 DocId:32989665 Page 44

---

## Page 45

JOHN RYTIS SKARDIS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCHASSIFIED

SP-2A

1/8/60BY3

DATE 1Z

John Rytis Skardis is a Federal fugitive charged with

Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

Skardis, born November 10,

1950, at Cleveland, Ohio, attended Columbia University in 1968

and

1969 and was involved in student disorders there sponsored

"by Students for a Democratic Society.

Skardis joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and took part in several

violent Weatherman demonstrations in Chicago and Ohio. He

entered the Weatherman underground in early 1970.

Skardis has used the alias, Jonas Rytis Stardis.

Skardis has the following relatives:

Paul (No Middle Name) Skardis (Father)

Ona Zamalis Skardis (Mother)

19320 South Lake Shore Bivd.

Euclia, Ohio 44119

Telephone: 216-481-6978

Sophie Zamalis (Maternal Grandmother)

•19320 South Lake Shore Biva.

Euclid, On1o 44119

Telephone: 216-481-6978

Ina Skardis Kozel (Sister)

(See Below)

Major Eugene Kozel (Brother-in-lan)

Denist with U.S. Army

• Assigned Madigan General Hospital

Dental Clinic Number 1

Fort Lewis, Washington

(Residence address unknown at this time)

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT

EXTREMIST ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSTERED

DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOMN ADVOCACY

AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES. RAPORTED ACQUISITION

DE FIREARS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN

PROPENSTTY FUR VIULENCE,

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 45

---

## Page 46

ROBERTA BRENT SMITH

#mDR16

ALI INFORNATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED-ALIN

DATE I2/18/00 BXSt

Roberta Brent Smith is a Federal fugitive charged

with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Smith

is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4476.

Smith, born November 26, 1944, at Cleveland, Ohio, is a

graduate of Washington University in Missouri, but became

active in Students for a Democratic Society at Case Western

Reserve University in Ohio while doing post graduate work.

She joined the revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and

participated in violent Weatherman demonstrations and other

activities in Illinois and Ohio up until February, 1970,

when she entered the Weatherman underground.

Smith has used the following aliases:

Bobbie Brent

Trudi Marcell Hayes

Bobbi Smith

Chris Smith

Smith has the following relatives:

Leo Ralph Smith (Father)

3581 Chelton Road

Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120

Telephöne: (216) 921-4887

Phillip Smith (Brother)

818½ Forest Avenue

Apartment B2

Evanston, Illinois 60202

Telephone: (312) 866-6510

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated

within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 46

---

## Page 47

N1.

Renee Smith (Sister)

3581 Chelton Road

Shaker Heights, Ohio

44120

Telephone: (216) 921-4887

-

2

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 47

---

## Page 48

#EMORIG

ATI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE LZLODABY SECALM

MICHAEL LOUIS SPIEGEL

Michael Louis Spiegel is being sought by the

FBI for violation of the Federal Antiriot Law and Conspiracy

statutes.

Spiegel, who is from Portland, Oregon, attended

Harvard University from 1964 to 1967 but did not graduate.

At Harvard he was a leader in the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) chapter.

In 1967 Spiegel was elected the

National Secretary of SDS and was employed in that capacity

on a full-time basis until his time expired in June, 1968.

Thereafter, Spiegel moved to Washington, D. C., and worked

•in the Washington Regional SDS office.

He was involved in

SDS demonstrations in Washington, D. C. He was closely

associated in Washington with Weatherman fugitive, Cathy

Wilkerson. In August, 1968, Spiegel was very active in planning

disruptions at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago.

Spiegel married Diane Donghi, who is a former Weatherman fugitive.

•In the. Fall of 1969 Spiegel was associated with

• the Weatherman faction of SDS and

active in Weatherman dis-

orders in Chicago. He was arrested in Chicago on several

occasions between August and November, 1969, for resisting

arrest, aggravated battery, mob action, and disorderly

conduct.

Spiegel has used the following identifications:

Richard Michael Peroni, white male,

date of birth 8/14/46

Steven Alan Reedy, white male,

date of birth 1/16/47

His immediate family includes:

Parents

David Myron and Winifred

Gene Needles Spiegel

1919 S.W. Stephenson Road

Portland, Oregon

(503) 244-4557

This accument contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBi and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NW 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 18

---

## Page 49

Brother

Uncle and Aunt

Aunt

Cousin

Aunt

cousin*

Grandmother

Grandmother

Stephen Walter Spiegel

(address unknown)

Sidney Irwin Spiegel

Eloise D. Spiegel

2807 S.W. Fairview Boulevard

Portland, Oregon

223-4768

Mrs. Peggy Steiner

• 907 Uvalde Street

McAllen, Texas

Laurence Harold Spiegel

ISSTA 169 Ben Yehuda No. 54,

Tel Aviv, Israel

Peggy Cruse

1613 Nolana Street

- McAllen, Texas

Mrs. Thomas E. Lane

3209 Riverside Drive, Apt. 116

Tulsa, Oklahoma

(918)

743-5695

Flora Needles

600 Wichita Street, Apt. 201

McAllen, Texas

682-3984

MIS.

Rose Spiegel

2014 N.W. Glisan Street

Portland, Oregon

723-0240

In the past Spiegel has contacted the Institute

fox Policy Studies, Washington, D. C. while in a fugitive

status and may be considered a likely contact point.

It is believed subject may be abroad, possibly he may

be in Canada where other Weatherman fugitives have known to reside.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND

USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

• 2=

HH 55253 Do0Id:32989665 Page 49

---

## Page 50

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

S UNCLASSIFIED

DARE 2 118/00 BY SP-2ALM)

BARRY PHILIP STEIN

Barry Stein is being sought by the Feäeral

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for his unlawful flight

to avoid prosecution for aggravated battery, which

offense occurred in Chicago, Illinois, in October, 1969.

Stein became active in the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) during Spring. of 1969 while attending Pennsylvania

State University. «During June, 1969, he traveled to Cincinnati,

Ohio, where he became active in a Cincinnati Collective of the

Weatherman Faction of SDS and became involved in the 1969 Summer

ce invoate

Work-In Program of SDS at Columbus, Ohio. He

participated

in

the Chicago riots of the Weatherman known as "Days of Rage" and

was arrested during these activities on 10/11/69 when he was

charged with Mob

the

• Action and Aggravated Battery. He also attended

"War Council" at Flint, Michigan, during Decembei, 1969•

Thereafter, he returned to Cincinnati

to be a loader of

a sub-

collective and subsequently left Cincinnati in February, 1970,

allegedly to establish a bomb school in Madison,

Wisconsin.

Based on a local indictment charging "Mob Accion" for which

Stein failed to appear in connection with charges relating

to his arrest of 10/11/69, at Chicago, an unlawful flight

to avoid prosecution for Mob Action was filed 7/9/71, at

Chicago, and warrant issued.

His only, known alias is Teddy.

•His immediate relatives are:

Father

Marvin Stein

Mother

Cecelia Stein, nee Rubanoff

Sister

Susan Stein

Residence

334 Candlewood Road

• Broomall, Pennsylvania

215-EL6-6177

Sister

Residence

Phyllis Greenberg, nee Stein

347 North Fifth Street

Allentown, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents

and it content te ho to be done.

are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

HY 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 50

---

## Page 51

Brother

Residence

Carl Steven Stein

5 Angus House

Hollywood Park Apartment 2

Liverpool, New York

• 451-1418

In addition to his parents and brother, who

are likely contact points, the following other possible

contacts are noted:

Mary Elizabeth Le Captain

Probably Madison, Wisconsin

Dorothy J. Dube

1152 East Mifflin

Madison, Wisconsin

(November 27, 1972)

Henry Frederick Reichman

•2507 Ellsworth

Berkeley, California

(October 12, 1970)

Joyce Beth Reichman

Cincinnati, Ohio

Doctor Stanley I. Friedman

125 Townhouse Road

Hamden, Connecticut

203-288-4823

Marilynne' Rosen

residing with Carl Stein

Liverpool, New York

During mid 1970, Stein was endeavoring to obtain

false identification to leave the country: A former close

friend of Stein believes Stein may be in Israel.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY

• SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN

ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

-2 =

HH 55253 Do0Id:32989665 Page 51

---

## Page 52

FEMORIS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLCD

LAWRENCE MICHAEL WEISS

Lawrence Weiss is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for his alleged conspiracy

to violate the Federal Anti-Riot Law, and for Unlawful

Flight to Avoid Prosecution for Mob Action, both which

offenses occurred in Chicago, Illinois, in October,

1969.

Weiss was.a

founder of the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) chapter at the University of Detroit, Michigan,

constrations,

in 1968. He was a very active participant in SDS demonstrations,

and after SDS split in June, 1969, subject became affiliated

with the Weatherman faction of SDS. In a Weatherman demonstra-

tion in Chicago on 9/24/69 he was arrested during violent .

disorders, escaped from the police, and was subsequently

rearrested on 9/26/69 and charged with Escape.

on bond and participated in the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in

Chicago in October, 1969.

During the "Days of Rage" he was

identified engaged

in mob action and a local felony warrant

was issued charging him with Mob Action in 10/8/69. On 10/15/69

a local warrant in Cook County, Illinois, charged Weiss with

failure to appear on the Escape charge as

scheduled.

On

10/16/69 a local felony warrant was issued charging

Weiss with

aggravated battery against a Chicago undercover police officer

on 10/10/69 in Evanston, Illinois.

In December, 1969, Weiss

reportealy attended a Weatherman war council meeting in Flint,

Michigan.

His known

aliases are James Kenneth Remsik, Michael

Guy Osborne, and Barrie Christopher Kosloff.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND

USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND

INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is. loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 52

---

## Page 53

His immediate relatives are:

Father

-Address

Lester S. Weiss

15356 Wilbut Court

Apartment 58

Redford, Michigan

Mother

Sarah Weiss

(divorced from Lester Weiss)

Brother

Sister

James Weiss

• Ellie Weiss

16093 East Seven Mile Road

. Detroit, Michigan

His most likely contact points are:

Ann Marie Hathaway

Berkeley, California

Thonas Jerome Lukaszek, currently a

Selective Service Act Fugitive, Canada

Reports have been received that weiss was in Canada

and Sweden.

• e

HH 55253 DooId:32989665

Page 53

---

## Page 54

CATHLYN PLATT WILKERSON

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

DAIS 12/18/00

Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson is a Federal

fugitive

charged with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution and with

violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Wilkerson

is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4363.

Wilkerson,

born january 14, 1945, at Bronxville, New York,

is a graduate of Swarthmore College where she was active

in

the orgonization Students for a Democratic Society.

Wilkerson joired the revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969

and participatad in several violent Weatherman demonstrations

and other actirities in Illinois, District of Columbia, and

New York.

ghe entered the Weatherman underground in early

1970.

Wilkerson has used the following aliases:

Dorothy Colletta

Rebecca DeAnda

Judy Flores

pikerson has the following relatives:

James Platt Wilkerson (Father)

Resides in England

Business Address:

Marstellar, Inc.,

866 Madison Avenue,

New York, New York

Harlan Logan (Stepfather)

Black Forest Farms

Meriden, New Hampshire

Audrey Armour Logan (Mother)

Black Forest Farms

Meriden, New Hampshire •

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALI. INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HY 35253 DocId: 32989665

- Page 54

---

## Page 55

Robin Wilkerson (Sister)

Route 2

Plainfiela, Vermont

Post Office Box 281

Plainfield, Vermont

Ann Armour Olson (Sister)

Francis Leslie Olson (Sister).

RED Bradford, Vermont

Mary Maven Logan (Stepsister)

creenfield Ranch,

ükiah, California

Post Office Box 365

Calvella, California

Telephone: unknown

Penelope Lohbauer (Stepsister)

IODeE= Dean Lohbauer

3 Myrtle Street

Iee, Massachusetts

Telephone:

243-2779

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 55

---

## Page 56

JOANNA ZILSEL

#EMDRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNSIASSIFIED

DATE 12/18/00 BXS P2 ARME

Joanna Zilsel is a federal fugitive charged with

violating Federal firearms laws.

Zilsel, born April 19,

1953, at millimantic, Connecticut, is a Cleveland Heights,

high scheol arorant who was

¿ an active member of the

revolutionary Neachere: group in Cleveland, Ohio, during

late- 1969

and early 1iil.

She

participated in several

Weatherman tombings in Circland in eaxly 1970 and went

underground with other weathemar. in March, 1970.

Tilsel has used i foll wing aliases:

Jennifer lary Paria,

Kind Flots

221541 has to titrira celatives:

Father:

• Mother:

29111 R. Zilsel

J00% Euhrman East

Seattle, Washington 98102

reisphone: 206-323-4912

Dorice Zilsel

Post Office Box 195

Cecelia, Louisiana 70521

telephone: 318-667-6043

Sister:

Carrie Zilsel

Whereabouts unknown

Grandmother:*

Elda lentchoff

11724 Sunset Boulevard

Los angeles, California

Telephone:

213-476-4815

ALL INDIVIDUALS LIVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND RNOWN EROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

nor duplicated within your agency.

HW 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 56

---

## Page 57

8/26/7r 85C Requart

Part I, Item 2, i

Retain copier

ALL INFORUATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665

---

## Page 58

SSC 82, 175 2QUEST

(Retain copy)

#MDRIG

D 2180 0552 Am 16

875

NH 55253 DooId: 32989665

Page

58

---

## Page 59

Beleral

11H 55253

DocId:32989665 Page 59

---

## Page 60

I,

July 19, 1971

Aiztel

1 - Mr. Wannall

1 - Mr. Young

1 - Me. Glass

To:

From:

SACS, New York (157-1677)

I7FO

Director, FBI (100-448180)

ROY EMILE ALFREDO INNIS

RM - CORE

PERSONAL ATTENTION

Bureau Source 6 has advised that Innis, National

Director of the Congress of Racial Equality, is leading an

80 member delegation to last Africa where they are to visit

countries incluüing Kenya, l'anzania, ana Guinea, Ine purpose

of the delegation is not known; it will ba in Africa 7/29/71.

Information fron Bureau Source 6 is classified

•"Top Secrei," is not to be cisseminated, and no inquiry

is to be conducted which will indicate that the Bureau

is ill possession of this information.

MAILED 3

NIO check passport records regarding Innis and

JULI Gadfise New York and the Bureau of the results.

•FBI

New York be alert for public source material and

alert sources tofurnish any information reseived regarding

Innis.

Tolson

Felt

Sullivan

Moha

Bishop

Brennan, C.D.

Callahar

Casper

Conrad

Dalbey

fonder

Rosen

Tavel

walters -E-

Suvars -

Tele. Room

fiolmos

3144.52

If information from Bureau Source 6 is independently

verified and if the activities of this delegation are of interast

to the Bureau with regard to racial matters or any other matter

within our jurisdiction, the information should be submitted

in form suitable for dissemination.

REC 17

CEG : ekw

(8)

EX-ICLE NOTE RAGE TUP RES

A0L 321

19 JUL 19 1971

3 Doc MA4298966

PaLe

61

]

---

## Page 61

Airtel to SACs, New York, WFO

RE: ROY EMILE ALFREDO INNIS

100-448180

NOTE:

CORE is a militant racial group. Because of the

size of the delegation led by Innis, it appears that

publicity will be given the group and New York is being

alerted to report the activity in the event it is of

interest within our jurisdiction.

2

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 61

---

## Page 62

Fmoe16

ALL TYFORMATION CONTAINED

WILLIAM CHARLES AYERS

William Charles Ayers is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

He is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4366:

Ayers, born December 26, 1944, at Oak Park, Illinois,

is a graduate of the University of Michigan where he was

active in the organization Students for a Democratic Society.

Ayers joined the revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and

participated in several violent and destructive Weatherman

demonstrations in Michigan and Illinois.

He went into the

Weatherman underground in approximately February, 1970.

Ayers has used the following aliases:

Bill Ayers

Bill Blair

Bob Jordan

: Daniel white

Ayers has the following relatives:

Thomas G. Ayers, Sr. (Father)

Mary Andrew Ayers (Mother)

I14 East Chestnut Apartment 29D

Chicago, Illinois

60611

Telephone: (312) 337-2374

199 Montclair Avenue

Glen Ellyn, Illinois 60137

Telephone:

(312) 469-1233

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is-the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

H# 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 62

---

## Page 63

Richard James Ayers (Brother)

(Address unknown)

Fugitive deserter, believed

to be in Vancouver, Canada

John Ayers (Brother)

199 Montclair Avenue

Glen Ellyn, Illinois

60137

Telephone:

(312) 469-1233

Thomas G. Ayers, Jr.

Also known as Tim Ayers

350 Willard North

San Francisco, California

Telephone: (415) 752-9372

Catherine Allen (Sister)

28 Donna Road

Chelmsford, Massachusetts

94106

01824

- 2

| HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 63

---

## Page 64

LAWRENCE DAVID BARBER

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCASSIFIED

Lawrence David Barber is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal Selective Service laws.

Barber, born February 25, 1950, at New York City, attended

Columbia University where he was involved in student dis-

orders in 1968 sponsored by Students for a Democratic Society.

Barber-was active in the violence-prone Weatherman group

in New York City in 1969 and early 1970, and participated

in several destrucive demonstrations sponsored by Weatherman.

The whereabouts of Barber has been unknown since April, 1972.

Barber has used the following aliases:

David Barber

David Barbour

Barber has the following relatives:

Algred Barber (Father)

less Barber (Mother)

: 324 East Oliver Street

Long Beach, New York

11561

Telephone: (516) GE 1-2557

Rebecca Weiner (Aunt)

324 East Oliver Street

Long Beach, New York

11561

Telephone:

(516) 432-1093

Debbie Weiner (Grandmother)

06 7th Avenue

New York, New York 10011

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and, is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

AIL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

KH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 64

---

## Page 65

SILAS TRIM BISSELL

JUDITH EMILY BISSELL

#mDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERTY IS UNCLASSIS DELT

DATEIZ 18100

Silas Trim Bissell and Judith Emily Bissell are

Federal fugitives charged with violating Federal firearms

and conspiracy laws.

The Bissells are the subjects of FBI

Identification Order Number 4401. Silas and Judith Bissell

are a married couple. He was born April 27, 1942 at Grand

Rapids, Michigan, and she was born March 6, 1944, at New York

City.

Both attended the University of Michigan and subse-

quently moved to the Seattle, Washington, area where, as

nonstudents, both were active in Students for a Democratic

Society at the University of Washington.

As members of

the Seattle Weatherman Collective in late 1969, both were

deeply involved in destructive activities of Weatherman

targeted against ROTC facilities at the University of

Washington.

Silas Bissell has used the following alias:

Trim Bisseil

Judith Bissell has

used the following aliases:

Judy Bissell

Judith Siff

The Bissells, have the following relatives:

Benjamin and Eleanor Siff

(Parents of Judith Bissell)

175 West 13th Street

• New York City, New York

Telephone (212) 242-1134

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

• agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 65

---

## Page 66

Wadsworth and Hillary Bissell

(Parents of Trim Bissell)

Route 3

Yankee Springs Road

Middleville, Michigan

Telephone:

(616) 695-3535

(Currently staying at Boqueron,

Puerto Rico, mail being received

c/o General Delivery, Boqueron)

David. Siff

•(Brother of Judith Bissell)

Leggett Road

Ghent, New York

Daniel Siff.

(Brother of Judith Bissell)

70 West 95ch Street

NEW YOrk CIty, New YOrK

Telephone:

(212) 749-7008

Brereton Bissell

(Brother of Silas Bissell)

• 101 Carlisle Street

New Haven, Connecticut

Telephone: (203) 624-3090

Torre Bissell

(Brother of Silas Bissell)

BOX 277

MOnrOVia, Liberia

West Africa

Telephone unknown

+ +11

MH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 66

---

## Page 67

IEM DRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

KATHIE BOUDIN

Kathie Boudin is being sought by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI)

as a fugitive in connection with her

unlawful flight to avoid prosecution for mob action and for

violation of Federal Anti-Riot Laws, the National Firearms

Act and Bombing Matters based on indictments returned by

Federal Grand Juries in the Northern District of Illinois and

•the Eastern District of Michigan.

Boudin was born May 19, 1943, In New York, New York.

Following graduation from high school in New York City she

attended Bryn Mawr College from 1961 to 1965 when she gradu-

ated with BA degree, Magna Cum Laude. Boudin attended summer

school in 1961 at the University of California and New York

University in the Summer of 1963. She studied in France and

England during the Summer of 1960 and spent her senior year

of college (1964-1965) studying at Moscow University, Moscow,

USSR.

Boudin is believed to have used the following aliases:

Kay Lavon Kennedy

Janet Patricia Scott

Boudin has the following immediate relatives:

Parents

Brother

Father-Leonard Boudin

Mother-Jean Roisman Boudin

12% St. Lukes Place

New York, New York

212-924-3136

Michael Boudin

1548 18th Street, Northwest

Washington, D. C.

202-293-3300-business

This document contains neither recommendation

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 67

---

## Page 68

Re: KATHIE BOUDIN

The following individuals are considered possible

contact points of Boudin:

Constance Warren Brown

280 Riverside Drive

New York, New York

212-222-4494

Corina Friedel Fales

328 West 12th Street

New York, New York

212-989-2408

Jennifer Gardner

452 Elizabeth Street

san Francisco, CallIornia

475-285-87954

• A source, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, advised that during April, 1973, he had observed

in Havana, Cuba, an individual whom

he believed to be identical to

Kathie Boudin.

On February 10, 1973, a second reliable source advised

that Leonard Boudin had recently made a statement that Kathie

Boudin was at that time in Cuba.

It is noted that Leonard. Boudin, who has made several.

trips to Cuba, is the registered representative of the Cuban

Government in the

United States and is a nationally known civil

rights attorney.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY

AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND

INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE:

- 2 -

HW 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 68

---

## Page 69

PETER WALES CLAPP

#MORIS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCTASSIFLED

DATE 12/18/00 BYS P- 277

—On May 19, 1969, Peter Wales Clapp was arrested

by the Niagara Falls, New

York, Police Department and charged

vane 20, 195ion ot dangerous drugs in the thire degreeed

On

an authorized complaint was filed and federal

warrant issued by the United States Magistrate Edmond E.

Maxwell, Western District of New York at Buffalo, New York,

charging Peter Wales Clapp unlawfully fled the State of

New York to avoid prosecution for the crime of criminal

•possession of a dangerous drug, in violation of United States

Code, Title 18, Section 1073.

Clapp was one of the leaders of the Students for

a Democratic Society (SDS) at Columbia University, New York

City, 1966-1969 and a close associate of Weatherman fugitive

Mark

Rudd.

Both Clapp

and Rudd were involved in the SDS

inspired disorders at Columbia University during 1968.

During the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in Chicago in October,

1969, Clapp was arrested.

Investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation

has not developed any information indicating that Peter Wales.

Clapp has utilized any particular alias.

The following is a complete list of the immediate

relatives of Peter Wales Clapp:

Father •

Mother

Brother

Eawin J. Clapp

• Jeanne I. Clapp

Bangkok, Thailand

Nelson T. Clapp

3 Bay Tree Lane

Bethesda, Maryland 20016

Telephone number (301) 229-

5944

Brother

John T. Clapp

International Meditation Society

2127 Leroy Place, Northwest

Washington, D. C.

20008

Telephone number (202) 387-

5050

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 69

---

## Page 70

Peter Whales Clapp

Grandmother

Mrs. Phillip Thayer

926 Bloomfield Avenue

Glen Ridge, New Jersey

07028

Telephone number (201) 748-

5423

Uncle

Phillip H. Thayer, Jr.

16 Yorke Road

Convent Station, New Jersey 0795

Telephone number (201) 267-

6306

While residing with his parents in Taiwan during

1964-65, Clapp began learning the Chinese language. Also, •

while at Columbia University subject majored in Oriental

studies. Clapp may be hiding in a country that has Oriental

culture..

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

2

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Paye 70

---

## Page 71

BERNARDINE RAE DOHRN

#MORIG

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSTPTED

DATE 12/18/00 BY SP-2 ALM/1

Bernardine Rae Dohrn is being sought by

the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as a fugitive

in connection with her unlawful flight to avoid prosecution

for mob action, a felony in the state of Illinois, for

involvement in a conspiracy to violate the Federal

Anti-Riot laws and for involvement in a conspiracy to

unlawfully possess or receive firearms.

Dohrn is the most prominent of the Weatherman

fugitives.

Her leadership of the

Weatherman group has

carried over from the pre-underground perioa to the present

time.

She has been the author of

several Weatherman

communiques from the underground.

Dohrn was born in Chicago, Illinois, and attended

high school in Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin, where she graduated

in June, 1959. Thereafter she attended Miami University of

Ohio and then the University of Chicago. She holds three

degrees, a BA, June, 1963; Masters, June, 1964; and J. D.

degree, June, 1967, all from the University of Chicago.

After leaving the University of Chicago in 1967, she was

employed by the National Lawyer's Guild in New York City

where she was student director.

of SDS.

In The 29d, Do ta von elected a tital officer

Secretary of SDS she traveled widely in this country and

abroad. In the fall of 1968, she and other student leaders

went to Budapest, Hungary, to

meet' with VietCong representatives.

In July, 1969, Dohrn traveled to Cuba with other SDS leaders

and again met

representatives of the VietCong.

In June, 1969, Dohrn was elected to the National

Interim Committee

of SDS, Weatherman faction. It was at this

time that SDS split into factions and Dohrn was a leader of

the Weatherman faction. During Weatherman disorders in the fall

of 1969, Dohrn was arrested and charged with mob action and

assault on police officers.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the

property of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

55253 DocId:32989665 Page 71

---

## Page 72

Her known aliases are Bernadine Dohrn, Bernardine

Rae Ohrnstein, and Lorraine Anne Jellins.

Her immediate relatives are as foLlows:

Father

Mother

Residence

Telephone

Sister

• Residence

Bernard Richard Dohrn

Dorothy Rae Dohrn

1507 North Lake Drive

Sun City Center, Florida 33570

813-634-2811

Jennifer Ellen Dohrn

501 Eighth Avenue

Brooklyn, New York 11215

212-768-0565

Telephone

contacts of Dohrn:

The following are considered to be most likely

Friends

Residence

Ralph and Nancy Meyberg

* 831 California Street

Santa Cruz, California 95060

In view of her extensive foreign travel and reports

received that she has been in Europe and Canada, it is

believed she is abroad.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

2

NH 55253 DocId: 32989665

Page 72

---

## Page 73

#MOR16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIE KE

DATE 12/18/00BxSP2ALMI1

JUDITH ANN FLATLEY, Nee Cohen

Judith Flatley became a Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) activist at the University of Wisconsin and there-

after became a well-known member of the Weatherman. She was

arrested October 9, 1969 during the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in

Chicago; local warrant at Chicago is outstanding for aggravated

battery.

She was arrested on forgery charges at Milwaukee on

October

29, 1970 and a Federal warrant for Unlawful Flight to

Avoid Prosecution-Forgery was issued in connection therewith

March 6, 1972. Flatley was indicted May 9, 1972 by a Federal

srand Jury tou at Milwaukee for the purchase of firearms using

false identification; she is also being sought in connection witl

this charge.

Flatley is being sought by the Federal Bureau

of Investigation.

Her known aliases are Sharon Buck, Judith Cohen,

Judy Cohen, Mrs. David M. Flatley, Judith Flatley, Judy Flatley,

Dale Herrera, Margaret Joyce, Meredith Malmberg.

The following are immediate relatives of the above-

captioned indiviâual:

Benjamin Cohen

1856 Manor Drive

Father

Apartment B

Union, New Jersey

07083

Telephone Number 201-687-4698

Dora Cohen

1856 Manor Drive

Apartment B

Union, New Jersey

Telephone Number

Mother

201-687-4698

Henry B. Cohen

5859 Hobart Street

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Telephone Number 412-421-4392

Brother

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

WW 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 73

---

## Page 74

Re:

JUDITH ANN FLATLEY

David Michael Flatley

-whereabouts unknown)

Husband

Other individuals most likely to be contacted

by Flatley:

Michael Mc Dermott

Susan Bennett

51 Buchannon

Apartment 3-A

Bronx, New York

19403

Telephone Number

212-720-0427

Ronald J. Clarke

Residence: 956 W. Dickens Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

60614

Telephone Number 312-929-3703

Business:

110 S. Dearborn Avenue

' Chicago, Illinois 60603

Telephone Number 312-332-3221

Any Louise Kirkland

1715 North Arlington Place

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

53202

Telephone Number 414-224-0295

Sources have advised that Flatley's speech is

extremely deliberate, precise,

slow, with a flat effect. She

seems to always measure her words and seems to be a very sober

and frightened individual in her speech.

Flatley along with a number of Weatherman fugitives

is

suspected of having residence in Canada of Cuba.

-2 -

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 74

---

## Page 75

EMPRIG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HFREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

DATE 12/18/00 BYSP-2. ALMI11

RONALD DAVID ELIEGELMAN

Ronald David Fliegelman is a Federal fugitive

charged with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy

laws.

Fliegelman is the subject of FBI Identification

Order Number 4422.

Fliegelman, born June 27, 1944, at

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is a graduate of Goddard

College in Vermont where he was active in the organization

Students for a Democratic Society.

Fliegelman joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and functioned as

a Weatherman leader in Michigan and Illinois. Fliegelman,

who reportedly participated in more than 30 bombings,

went into the Weatherman underground in approximately July,

1970.

Fliegelman has used the following aliases:

Henry Skirball

Exank

Robert

Fliegelman has the following relatives:

Emanuel and Ruth Fliegelman

(Parents)

Residing in Israel

Specific location unknown

Marc Lee Fliegelman (Brother)

4924 Knox Street

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) •

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 75

---

## Page 76

JOHN ALLEN FUERST

ATE INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

DATE 12 18/00 BYSE

John Allen Fuerst is a Federal fugitive charged

with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution and with violating

Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Fuerst is the subject

of FBI Identification Order Number 4415.

July ils, 1944, at New Rochelle, New York, is a graduate

Rochelle, New

Fuerst, born

of Columbia University where he was active in the organization.

Students for a Democratic Society. Fuerst joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and participated in

several violent and destructive Weatherman demonstrations

in Illinois and Ohio.

He went into the Weatherman under-

ground in approximately February, 1970.

Fuerst has the following aliases:

Allan Friedman

Bill Friedman

William Allen Friedman

Allen Friedman

Jeremy Pikser

Fuerst has the following relatives:

Murray C. Fuerst (Father)

Ruth Fuerst (Mother)

130 Norman Road

New Rochelle, New York

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 76

---

## Page 77

DAVID JOSEPH GILBERT

David Joseph Gilbert is a Federal fugitive charged

with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution. Gilbert, born

October 6, 1944, at Cambridge, Massachusetts, Is a graduate

of Columbia University where he was active in the organization

•Students for a Democratic Society. Gilbert joined the revo

lutionary Weatherman group in 1969 and participated in

several violent and destructive Weatherman demonstrations

in New York and Colorado. He went into the Weatherman under-

ground in approximately February, 1970.

Gilbert has used the following aliases:

Dave Gilbert

Thomas Larsen

Gilbert has the following relatives:

Samuel Gilbert (Father)

Beatrice Wexler Gilbert (Mother)

26 Plowgate Road

Chestnut Hill

Brookline, Massachusetts

02167

Telephone:

(617) 469-0661

Brenda Gilbert (Sister)

Ruth Gilbert (Sister)

Location unknown

not is

This document contains heither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 77

---

## Page 78

LEONARD HANDELSMAN

#MORIG

ITE INFORMATION CONTAINED

REIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

P.ZALM/7TG

DATE 12/18/00 BYS

Tres

Leonard Handelsman is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation FBI) as a fugitive in connection

with his unlawful flight to avoid prosecution for mob action,

aggravated battery, and aiding escape. Handelsman has also

been charged with conspiracy for possession of unregistered

firearms and interstate transportation of explosives and

incendiary devices.

Handelsman was active in the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) at the University of Chicago, 1967-69, and was in

a Chicago Weatherman group the latter half of 1969..

Handelsman

was arrested by the Chicago police two times during August, 1959;

•and on one occasion during Septmeber, 1969, in connection with

Weatherman disturbances.

After the Weatherman "Days of Rage"

in Chicago during October, 1969, he moved to Cleveland where

he was active in a Weatherman group, until going underground

in the latter part of February, 1970.

Leonard Handelsman is also known as Lennie Handelsman,

Mark. Sarkady, Lenny Williams, and Lenny Wilkins.

His relatives are as follows:

Father

Hyman Handelsman

Mother

Pauline Handelsman

Residence

Apartment 8H

283 Avenue C

• New York, New York

Telephone

212-777-0969

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR

VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its con-

tents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 78

---

## Page 79

RE :

LEONARD HANDELSMAN

Handelsman's most likely contact points are:

Aaron Marks, cousin, 47 North Fullerton Avenue,

Montclair, New Jersey, telephone 201-744-4911.

-Debbie Weiner, Apartment 3K, 56 Seventh Avenue,

New York,

New York, telephone 212-0R5-8129.

Handelsman, during the mid 1960's, studied Inter-

• national Social Work, in South America, under a Woodrow

Wilson Fellowship, where Handelsman became "radicalized"

according to one of his college professors.

It appears Handelsman may be outside the U. s.,

possibly in a Latin American country.

HH 55253

DooId:32989665

Page 79

---

## Page 80

JOHN GREGORY JACOBS

ALL INTORMAJION CONTAINED

DATE 12/18/00 BXS/

John Gregory Jacobs is being sought by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)

as a fugitive

in connection with his involvement in a conspiracy to

violate the Federal Anti-Riot Laws.

Jacobs was born in New York City and attended

Columbia University there from September, 1965, through

February, 1968. He was very active in the Students for a

Democratic Society (SDS) at Columbia and attended several

national SDS conventions. After SDS split in June, 1969,

Jacobs affiliated with the Weatherman Faction of SDS and

he is one of the authors of the Weatherman statement, "you

don't need a Weatherman to know which way the wind blows."

Jacobs was arrested in Chicago during Weatherman disorders

in October, 1969.

A thousa

Although Jacobs has not held national

office in the weatherman group, he is considered a top leader.

organizer and enforcer.

His known aliases are John Jacobson, Robert Carnie

Morgan, and Anthony Frank Rocco, Jr.

His immediate relatives are as follows:

Father

Residence

Telephone

Brother

Residence

Douglas Montagu Jacobs

'Redding, Connecticut 06875

203-938-9312

Robert M. Jacobs

Unknown - believed to be

presently in Vancouver,

British Columbia area

The only other individuals considered as likely

contacts of Jacobs are also fugitives and their whereabouts

are unknown.

Jacobs along with a number of the Weatherman

fugitives is suspected of having residence in Canada.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

HW 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page- 80

---

## Page 81

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPIOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

NW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 81

---

## Page 82

#MDRN6

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/18/00 BYSP-FALM

11в

NAOMI ESTHER JAFFE

Naomi Jaffe is a member of the Weatherman faction

of the Students for Democratic Society (SDS) and attended the

most prominent national and regional conferences of SDS and

the Weatherman faction of SDS in the late 1960's and 1970..

On or about December 27, 1969, members of the

Weatherman group, met in Flint, Michigan. Jaffe was part of this

group that reportedly planned to transport explosives in interstate

commerce with knowledge and intent that the explosives would be used

to injure persons and damage or destroy buildings, personal

property, and civic objectives.

On July 23, 1970, a Federal Grand Jury at Detroit,

Michigan, indicted Jaffe, and 12 others, for conspiracy, and

a Federal warrant for her arrest was issued on the same date.

this indictment was expanded on December 7, 1972, in that

Jaffe and others were charged with conspiring to bomb various

police and military installations in several cities.

Jaffe has been convicted of battery, resisting, and

aggravated battery.

She reportedly has been

associated with

persons who advocate the use of explosives and may have acquired

firearms. She should be considered dangerous.

Her known aliases are: Nadine Jaffe, Myra

Novogrodsky, Mrs. William Safier, "Leona", Naomi Esther Safier,

Dolores Clementina Donnardio, Dolores Clementina Denardo.

The following is a list of Jaffe's immediate

relatives:

Parents

Abe and Syd Jaffe

Jaffe's Poultry Farm

Glen Wild, New

York

(914) 434-5410

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

..

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 82

---

## Page 83

Brother

Uncle and Aunt

Uncle

Aunt

Uncle

Uncle and Aunt

Cousins

Father's cousin

...

Ex-husband

Bernard Jaffe

44 Wolfrey Avenue, Apartment

279

Toronto, Canada

466-4925

David and Ann Jaffe

Jaffe's Poultry Farm

Glen Wild, New York

(914) 434-5410

Abe and Sadie Novogrodsky

• 1215

S.W. 15th Street

Miami, Florida

(305)

373-3205

Morris Feintuch

52 Marshall Road,

Yonkers, New York

Ida (Mrs. David) Levine

365 Division Street,

Amsterdam, New York

(518) 842-6783

Saul Schulman

11 Bucler Place

Bergenfield, New Jersey

Samuel and Esther Cutler

112 Roselyn Drive

Pittsfield, Massachusetts

Myra and Charles Novogrodsky

33 Major Street

Toronto, Canada

Harola shaftei

3040 Tremont

Allentown, Pennsylvania

William Irving Safier

Somcrest Stables

370 Som Center Road

Mayfield Village, Ohio

~2-

IN 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 83

---

## Page 84

Ex-father-in-law

Cousin

Seymour Safier

27000 Cedar Road

Beachwood, Ohio

Eugene Novogrodsky

• Montpelier, Vermont

(802) 229-9420

Cousin

Isidore Roy Cohen

Gracemere

Tarrytown, New YOrk

* (914) 631-1263

The following is a list of individuals who are the

most likely contacts of Jaffe:

Lynn Perlman

150 East Seventh Street,

New York, New York

Dianne Donghi

23 Wensley Street, Apartment 2

Roxbury, Massachusetts

. Lynn Laredo

145 Second Avenue, Apartment 10

New York, New' York

(212) 228-6567 (1970)

Jonathan, Freedman

Community Action Iraining Center

805 Madison Street

Syracuse, New York

Reva and Harry Cohen

Apartment 7A

22 Fairview Avenue

Spring Valley, New

York

(914) 356-7571

.

Robert Burlingham

2436 Prince Street

Berkeley, California

(415) 841-7704

- 3 -

WH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 84

---

## Page 85

Jaffe:

Marsha Steinberg

377 Norfolk Street

Cambridge, Massachusetts

Linda Evans

c/o Hopkins

Star Route

Morrilton, Arkansas

Wendy Jane Panken.

169 Bonview

San Francisco, California

Robert Portsche Ward

1614 East Mercer

Seattle, Washington

Linda Josefowicz

Brooklyn, New York

The following is a description of Naomi Esther

Date of birth

June 26, 1943

Place of birth

Height

Gien wild, New York

Weight

105 pounds

Build

Medium

Hair

Dark brown, may be tinted red

Eyes

Brown

Complexion

Fair

Race

White

Nationality

American

Jaffe's parents reside on a rural farm in New York

State at Glen Wild, New York. Jaffe has

a number of relatives

including her brother Bernard, residing in Canada. Her relatives

in this country and Canada have been uncooperative and hostile

when contacted as to Jaffe's whereabouts. Investigation

indicates that Jaffe has been in Canada or utilizing

Canadian relatives as intermediaries to maintain contact with

her family in New York State.

There have been a large number

of telephone toll calls between her relatives in both countries.

Jaffe's father has rented a light plane and traveled to Canada.

- 4 .

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 85

---

## Page 86

JEFFREY CARL JONES

Am De

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED

18/00 BxSP-CALM

DATE 12

Jeffrey Carl Jones is wanted by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) as a result of a Federal

Grand Jury (FGJ) indictment returned on April 2, 1970,

for violation of Title 18, Sections 371 and 2101, United

States Code (USC.).

Jones attended Antioch College, Yellow Springs,

Ohio, where he first became active in radical groups.

Jones

became involved in Students for a Democratic Society (SDS)

in 1966.

He went to New York in 1967 and worked there as

office manager of New York Regional SDS. Jones, with others,

traveled to Cambodia in 1967 and attempted to gain entry.

into. North Vietnam but was unsuccessful.

Jones was involved in the disorders incited by SDS

at Columbla University in New York in the Spring or 1968 and

was arrested during those disorders.

It is noted that Jones

has been arrested on numerous occasions in various parts of

the country in connection with disorderly demonstrations.

In June, 1969, Jones was elected a national officer

of SDS (Interorganizational secretary), at the time SDS split

into Weatherman and Worker Student Alliance (WSA) factions.

Jones affiliated with the Weatherman faction, and along with

Mark Rudd, Bernardine 'Dohrn, and Bill Ayers, Jones is a top

• leader in the Weatherman group. Jones was a coauthor of the

Weatherman credo "You don't need a Weatherman to know which

way the wind blows."

Jones was arrested several times in

Chicago in 1969 in connection with Weatherman demonstrations •

there, including an arrest during Weatherman "Days of Rage"

in October, 1969, on charges of battery and mob action.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF PHEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPELSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not be distributed

outside your agency.

то ;

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 86

---

## Page 87

RE:

JEFFREY CARL JONES

Jones went underground in early 1970 along with

the Weatherman leadership group.

In the underground he is

known to have been active in the San Francisco area in 1970

and

1971.

Jones has used the aliases of Norman Kenneth

Bailey and Duane Lee Compton.

Jones relatives are: :

Father

Albert I. Jones

13949 Tyler Streèt

Sylmar,

California

805-367-3176

Mother

.. -

Mrs. Roger F. (Mildred)

O'Donnell

16635 West Gazeley

Saugus, Californai

805-251-0714

Brother

Eric Jones

13959 Tyler Street

Sylman, California

An individual considered most likely to be contacted

by Jones is:

Dennis Dickson Cunningham, 2243 North Seminary,

Chicago, Illinois, 312-248-3574.

Jones, along with a number of other Weatherman

fugitives, is suspected of having residence in Canada.

A source reported seeing an individual resembling Jones

in Cuba during April, 1973.

• 2 .

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 87

---

## Page 88

ATRI INFORMATION CONTAINED

EnDel6

THOMAS MICHAEL JUSTESEN

Thomas Michael Justesen, who is wanted by the

Federal Bureau of Investigation for violation of Title 18,

U.S. Code, Section 371, for conspiracy to unlawfully injure

property of the United States.

A federal warrant was issued

at Seattle, Washington, on April 16, 1970, in connection

with the aforementioned charge.

Justesen was active in weatherman group in Seattle,

Washington, in 1969 and early 1970. In August, 1969, he was

selected by Mark Ruda, Weatherman fugitive, to represent

Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) at an anti-imperialist

conference in Tokyo, Japan, based on the leadership capacity

demonstrated by Justesen within the SDS chapter at the

University of Washington, Seattle, from 1968 to 1969.

Justesen was arrested several times by local auth-

orities in Seattle in 1969 in connection with his participa-

tion in SDS sponsored disturbances there, most of which were

targeted against ROTC at the University of Washington.

On 2/17/70, Justesen was involved in a violent

Weatherman inspired demonstration at the Seattle Federal

Building which resulted in personal injuries and extensive

of the Antiriot Laws Trial of the "Chicago 8" in Chicago,

Illinois, which was pending at that time.

His known aliases are:

Mike Justesen

Michael Thomas Justesen

His immediate relative is:

Margaret Justesen

(Mother)

1310 Washington Avenue

Enumclaw, Washington

98022

Telephone

206-TA5-3060

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 88

---

## Page 89

RE: THOMAS MICHAEL JUSTESEN

Individuals most likely to be contacted by Justesen:

Elizabeth Skahill (aunt)

Route 3, Box 1397

Sumner, Washington

Telephone 206-UN3-7600

Roger Henry Lippman (friend)

121 - 13th Avenue East

Seattle, Washington

Telephone 206-EA5-5688

As his activities were in close proximity to

Canada, it is believed Justesen may be in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

2

-

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 89

---

## Page 90

#MOR16

ATI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

CELESTE MAURINE MC CULLOUGH

Celeste McCullough is being sought by the Federal.

Bureau of Investigation for her unlawful flight to avoid

prosecution for Mob Action, which offense occurred in

Chicago, Illinois, in October, 1969.

McCullough became engaged in radical-type activity

at Pennsylvania State University during 1969. At that time

she joined the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and

became intimate with current Weatherman fugitive, Barry Phillip

Stein, who was President of the SDS at Pennsylvania State

University. McCullough was active in the SDS summer work-in

program in Columbus, Ohio, during 1969 where she was arrested on

8/12/69. On 9/20/69 she was arrested and charged with

disorderly conduct/assault on a police officer by the

Cleveland Heights Police Department. On 10/9/69, during

the Weatherman

"Days of Rage" in Chicago, she was arrested

and charged with Aggravated Battery, Resisting Arrest and

Mob Action. On 12/20/69 she was arrested during a Weatherman

disturbance at the Severance Shopping Center in Cleveland

Heights. Based on a local indictment charging "mob action"

for which McCullough failed to appear concerning her arrest

on 10/9/69, an Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution for

Mob Action was filed 3/17/70 ät Chicago.

Her known aliases are Maureen Devlin, Dianne

Herzog (phonetic), and Kelly Green (phonetic).

Her immediate relatives are:

Father

Mother

Sister

Brothers

John McCullough

Marie McCullough

Cecilia McCullough

Robert McCullough

Bryan McCullough

Keven McCullough

Residence

654 Arthur Street

Hazelton, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 90

---

## Page 91

The following are considered to be her most likely

contact points:

Nigel Gordan Dickens

414% West Tuscon

Flagstaff, Arizona

Lorraine Consuelo Rosal

45 Houghton Street

Sommerville, Massachusetts

Telephone:

628-4558

It is believed McCullough may be in Canada, as

the Weatherman fugitives

have

been in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

2

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 91

---

## Page 92

тосІБ

JIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIS P-2 ALI"

DATE 12/18/00 BXS

JEFFREY DAVID POWELL

Jeffrey David Powell is a Federal fugitive

charged with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

Powell, born September 23, 1950, at Akron, Ohio, was a

non-student Students for a Democratic Society activist

at Kent State University and subsequently joined the

revolutionary Weatherman group. He functioned for

Weatherman in Ohio and Illinois and took part in several

violent Weatherman demonstrations in both states.

entered the Weatherman underground in approximately

February, 1970.

Powell has used the following

aliases:

Jeff Donovan,

Roger William Hill

Powell has the following relatives:

Donald P. Powell (Father)

• 1037 Northeast

Talmadge, Ohio

44278

Telephone:

216-633-3748

Betty Jane Powell (Mother)

1037 Northeast

Talmadge, Ohio

44278

Telephone:

216-633-3748

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

HW 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 92

---

## Page 93

RE: JEFFREY DAVID POWELL

Kevin Powell (Brother)

(same address as parents)

Donald A. Powell (Brother)

3838 Oneida Street

Stow, Ohio 44224

Telephone: 216-668-9645

Christina Powell (Sister)

(same address as

parents)

Ann Penelope Powell (Sister)

Belvedere Hotel

319 West 48th Street

New York, New York

10036

..

2

: MY 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 93

---

## Page 94

AL' INFORMATION CONTAINED

ROBERT HENRY ROTH

Robert Henry Roth, white male, born March 3, 1950,

is being sought as a fugitive by the Federal Bureau of

Investigation (FBI) for unlawful flight to avoid prosecution

for the crimes of Mob Action and Aggravated Battery, felonies

in the State of Illinois. A Grand Jury in Cook County,

Illinois, returned indictment number 69-3358 on October 31,

1969, charging Roth with the above violations.

'Roth attended Columbia University (CU) and was

• involved in the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS)

• inspired disorders at CU in 1968.

Roth was a close friend

of Mark Rudd, Weatherman fugitive, in the SDS chapter at

CU, and later worked with Rudd at the SDS National Office

in Chicago after moving to that city in June, 1969.

Roth

was active in the Weatherman group in Chicago, Illinois,

in 1969

and early 197%.

On September 24, 1969, Roth was

arrested

by the Chicago Police Department during Weatherman

disturbance at the Chicago Federal Building Plaza and

charged with Mob Action and Aggraved Battery.

Roth is also known as Robbie Roth, and Robby Roth.

Roth's

parents are Joseph G. Roth and Martha

Thomas Roth, 5320 Little Neck Parkway, Little Neck, New York,

telephone number 212-225-5111. Roth has one brother, Daniel,

2i2-p25ents.

who resides with his parents. No contact points are known.

It is believed Roth may be in Canada, as other

Weatherman fugitives have been in Canada.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR

KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIRFARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSINY

FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH 55253 DooId:32989665 Page 94

---

## Page 95

MARK WILLIAM RUDD

Mark William Rudd is & Federal fugitive charged

with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Rudd

is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4358.

Rudd, born

June 2, 1947, at Irvirgton, New Jersey, is a

graduate of Columbia University whore

he, in 1968, was the

leader of student disorders spoisored by Sludents for a

Democratic Society (SDS) .

Rudd, iollowing his leadership

years in ss, during which he became known rationally,

joined the revolutionary weathe. wen group.

Ruct took

part in violent and destructive

Featherman concastrations

and activities throughout the counury until ebruary, 1970,

when he entered the Weatherman underground.

Rudd has used the folicving aliases:

Frank Henry Koch,

Marc Rudnitsky

Rudd has the following relatives:

Parents:

Jacob S. and Bertra Rudo

32 Washington Pars

*Maplewood, New Jersey 07040

Telephone:

201-763-3834

Brother:

David Rudd

294 West End Road

South Orange, New Jersey

07079

Telephone: 201-763-7610

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 95

---

## Page 96

JOHN RYTIS SKARDIS

FmOR16

ALI, INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

DATI 12

John Rytis Skardis is a Federal fugitive charged

with

Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution.

by Students for a Democratic Society.

Skardis joined the

revolutionary Heatherman group in 1969 and took part in several

violent Weatherman demonstrations in Chicago and Ohio. HE

entered the Weatherman underground in early 1970.

Skardis has used the alias, Jonas Rytis Skardis.

Skardis has the following relatives:

Paul (No Middle Name) Skardis (Father)

Ona Zamalis Skardis (Mother)

19320 South Lake Shore Blvd.

Euclid, Ohio 44119

Telephone: 216-481-6978

Sophie Zamalis (Maternal Grandmother)

•19320 South Lake Shore Blvd.

Euçlid, Ohio 44119

Telephone: 216-481-6978

Ina Skardis Kozel (Sister)

(See Below)

Major Eugene Kozel (Brother-in-law)

Denist with U.S. Army

• Assigned Madigan General Hospital

Dental Clinic Number 1

Fort lewis, Washington

(Residence

address unknown at this time)

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT

EXTREMIST ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSTDERED

DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY

AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITTON

OF FIREARTS AND TNCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN

PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

WW 55253 Docid: 32989665 Page 96

---

## Page 97

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED:

DATE 1218 ROBY SPOUREM

ROBERTA BRENT SMITH

Roberta Brent Smith is a Federal fugitive charged

with violating Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Smith

is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4476.

Smith, born November 26, 1944, at Cleveland, Ohio, is a

graduate of Washington University in Missouri, but became

active in Students for a Democratic Society at Case Western

Reserve University in Ohio while doing post graduate work.

She joined the revolutionary weatherman group in 1969 and

participated in violent Weatherman demonstrations and other

activities in Illinois and Ohio up until February, 1970,

When she entered the Weatherman underground.

Smith has used the following aliases:

Bobbie Brent

Trudi Marcell Hayes

Bobbi Smith

ghris Smith

Smith has

the following relatives:

Leo Ralph Smith (Father)

3581 Chelton Road

Shaker Heights, Ohio

44120

Telephone: (216) 921-4887

Phillip Smith (Brother)

818% Forest Avenue

Apartment B2

Evanston, Illinois 60202

Telephone: (312) 866-6510

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 97

---

## Page 98

a inãs

Renee Smith (Sister)

3581 Chelton Road

Shaker Heights,

Ohio

44120

Telephone:

(216) 921-4887

-

HH 55253 DocId: 32989665 Page 98

---

## Page 99

BARRY PHILIP STEIN

#MDRIG

tHE INTORNATION CONTAINED

HERE HOSPI

Barry Stein is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for his unlawful flight

to avoid prosecution ir aggravated battery, which

offense occurred in Chicago, Illinois, in October, 1969.

Stein becam: ctive in the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) during using. or 1969 while attending Pennsylvania

State University. Ductig June, 1969, he traveled to Cincinnati,

Ohio, where he bocame autive in a Cincinnati Collective of the

Weatherman Faction cE SDS

and became involved in the 1969 Summer

Work-In Program of SDS ai Columbus, Ohio. He participated in

the Chicago riots of the Weatherman known as "Days of. Rage" and

was arrested during

trase activities on 10/11/69 when he was

charged with Mob Aclich

ard Aggravated Battery. He also attended

"War Council"

at flint, Nichigan, during December, 1969..

Thereafter, he retucned

to Cincinnati

to be a leader of a sub-

collective and

subsequently loft Cincinnati in February, 1970,

allegedly to establish a bomb school

in Madison,

Wisconsin.

Based on a local indiciment charging

"Mob Action" for which

Stein failed to appear in connection with charges relating

to his

arrest of 10/11/59, at Chicago, an unlawful flight

to avoid prosecution for Mob Action was filed 7/9/71, at

Chicago, and warcant issued.

His only known alias is Teddy.

His immediate relatives are:

Father

Marvin Stein

Mother

Cecelia Stein, nee Rubanoff

Sister

Susan Stein

Residence

334 Candlewood Road

• Broomall, Pennsylvania

215-EL6-6177

Sister

Residence

Phyllis Greenberg, nee Stein

347 North Fifth Street

Allentown, Pennsylvania

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665 Page 99

6

-tis

---

## Page 100

Brother

Residence

Carl Steven Stein

5 Angus House

Hollywood Park Apartment 2

Liverpool, New York

• 451-1418

In addition to his parents and brother, who

are likely contact points, the following other possible

contacts are noted:

Mary Elizabeth Le Captain

Probably Madison, Wisconsin

Dorothy J. Dube

1152 East Mifflin

Madison, Wisconsin

(November 27, 1972)

Henry Frederick Reichman

2507 Ellsworth

Berkeley, California

(October

12, 1970)

Joyce Beth Reichman

Cincinnati, Ohio

Doctor Stanley I. Friedman

125 Townhouse Road

Hamden, Connecticut

203-288-4823

Marilynne* Rosen

residing with Carl Stein

Liverpool, New York

During mid 1970, Stein was endeavoring to obtain

false identification to leave the country. A former close

friend of Stein believes Stein may be in Israel.

ALL. INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY

• SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN

ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION

OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY

FOR VIOLENCE.

- 2 -

HN 55253 DocId:32989665 Page 100

---

## Page 101

LAWRENCE MICHAEL WEISS

1MDR16

ATL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12-18-00 BY SPUdINtZTE

Lawrence Weiss is being sought by the Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for his alleged conspiracy

to violate the Federal Anti-Riot Law, and for Unlawful

Flight to Avoid Prosecution for Mob Action, both which

offenses occurred in Chicago, Illinois, in October,

1969.

weiss was.a

founder of the Students for a Democratic

Society (SDS) Chapter at the University of Detroit, Michigan,

in 1968.

and

after SDS split in June, 1969, subject became affiliated

with the Weatherman faction of SDS. In a Weatherman demonstra-

tion in Chicago on 9/24/69 he was arrested during violent .

22128

He was a very active participant in SDS demonstrations,

disorders, escaped from the police, and was subsequently

• rearrested on 9/26/69 and charged with Escape.

He was released

on bond and participated in the Weatherman "Days of Rage" in

Chicago in October, 1969. During the "Days of Rage" he was

identified engaged in mob action and a local felony warrant

was issued charging him with Mob Action in 10/8/69. On 10/15/69

a local warrant in Cook County, Illinois, charged Weiss with

failure to appear on the Escape charge as scheduled.

On

10/16/69 a local felony warrant was issued charging Weiss with

aggravated battery against a Chicago undercover police officer

on 10/10/69 in Evanston, Illinois.

In December, 1969, Weiss

reportedly attended a Weatherman war council meeting in flint,

Michigan.

His known aliases are James Kenneth Remsik, Michael

Guy Osborne, and Barrie Christopher Kosloff.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST ACTIVITY SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND

USE OF EXPLOSIVES, REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND

INCENDIARY DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

• This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is. loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside

your agency.

55253 DocId:32989665 Page 101

---

## Page 102

His immediate relatives are:

Father

Address

Mother

Brother

Sister

Lester S. Weiss

15356 Wilbut Court

Apartment 58

Redford, Michigan

Sarah Weiss

(divorced from Lester Weiss)

James Weiss

• Ellie Weiss

• 16093 East Seven Mile Road

Detroit, Michigan

His most likely contact points are:

Ann Marie Hathaway

Berkeley, California-

Thomas Jerome Lukaszek, currently a

Selective Service Act Fugitive, Canada

Reports have been received that Weiss was in Canada

and Sweden.

2

L HH

55253 DocId:32989665 Page 102

---

## Page 103

#MORIG

CATHLYN PLATT WILKERSON

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFLED

DATE FE

11800 BY SP2 BITTE

Cathlyn Platt Wilkerson is a Federal fugitive

charged with Unlawful Flight to Avoid Prosecution and with

viola-ing Federal bombing and conspiracy laws.

Wilkerson

is the subject of FBI Identification Order Number 4363.

wilkerson,

born January 14, 1945, at Bronxville, New York,

is & sraduate of Swartilore College where she was active

in the organization Strcents for a Democratic Society.

Wilkersor joined the volitionary Weatherman group in 1969

and participated in several violent Weatherman demonstrations

and other activicios in Illinois, District of Columbia, and

New York.

She entered the Weatherman underground in early

1970 г

Wilkerson has used the following aliases:

Ducothy Colletta

Rebecca DeAnda

Judy Flores

Wilkerson

has the following relatives:

James Platt Wilkerson (Father)

Resides in England

Business Address:

Morstellar, Inc.,

866 Madison Avenue,

New York, New York

Harlan Logan (Stepfather)

Black Forest Farms

Meriden, New Hampshire

Audrey Armour Logan (Mother)

Black Forest Farms

Meriden, New Hampshire •

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency,

nos duplicated within your agency.

ALL INDIVIDUAUS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

HH 55253 DocId:32989665Page-103-

---

## Page 104

Robin Wilkerson (Sister)

Route 2

Plainfield, Vermont

Post Office Box 281

Plainfield, Vermont

Ann Armour Olson (Sister)

Francis Leslie Olson (Sister).

RED Bradfora, Vermont

Mary Haven Logan (Stepsister)

Greenfield Ranch,

Ukiah, California

Post Office Box 365

Calpella, California

Telephone:

unknown

Penelope Lohbauer (Stepsister)

• Robert Dean Lohbauer

3 Myrtle Street

Lee, Massachusetts

Telephone:

243-2779

• .

--

HH 55253

DocId: 32989665

Page 104

---

## Page 105

H# 55253

JOANNA ZILSEL

ATI INFORMATION CONTAINED

FEREIN IS UNCLASSITIED

DATE 12/18/00

Joanna Zilsel is a Federal fugitive charged with

violating Federal firearms laws.

Zilsel, born April 19,

1953, at Willimantic, Connecticut, is a Cleveland Heights,

high school dropout who was an active member of the

revolutionary weatherman group in cleveland, ohio, during

late: 1969 and early 1970. She participated

in several

Weatherman bombings in Cleveland in early 1970 and went

underground with other Weatherman in March, 1970.

zilse! has ised the following aliases:

Jennifer Mary Price,

Wilma Kiotz

Zilsa: has she following relatives:

Father:

• Mother:

Paul R. Zilsel

3002 Fuhrman East

Seattle, Washington 98102

Telephone: 206-323-4912

Dorice Zilsel

Post Office Box 195

Cecelia, Louisiana

70521

Telephone: 318-667-6043

Sister:

Carrie Zilsel

Whereabouts unknown

Grandmother:"

Elda Tentchoff

11724 Sunset Boulevard

Los Angeles, California

Telephone:

213-476-4815

ALI INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NEW LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS BECAUSE

OF THEIR KNOWN ADVOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ACQUISITION OF FIREARMS AND INCENDIARY

DEVICES, AND KNOWN PROPENSITY FOR VIOLENCE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). It

is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

nor duplicated within your agency.

DocId: 32989665 Page 105

---

