# docid-32570674

## Page 1

AARE

NK 105-14316

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54464 Date:

10-11-2017

filming scenes in New York City for this motion picture.

Included in this list under "grips" was the name WALTER, ENGELS,

13 De Bow Terrace, Pompton Plains,

New Jersey, telephone

Terhune 5-4494, born 7/28/13 at Fort Lee, New

Newark files contained no further information identi-

fiable with ENGELS.

W.E. Engels

No record was located for ENGELS at the Pompton

Plains, New Jersey, Police Department as checked on 8/15/63

by IC ANTHONY PALMISANO.

Records of the Garden State Credit Bureau

resided at 13 De Bow Terrace, Pompton Plains,-

ENGELS was employed with Local 52, New York City.

New Jersey.

ALEX GOLDBERG

GOLDBERG is on the Security Index of the Newark Office

having been a member of the CP of New Jersey for a number of

years in the past.

He is married to MIRIAM HEILIGMAN (possible

relative of the subject) and this could account for the nineteen

telephone calls made to. HI 2-4467.

- MRAM:

MART

records of the Bureau of Vitals Statistics, Kearny,.

New Jersey, reviewed in 6/43 disclosed ALEX GOLDBERG. married

MIRIAM HEILIGMAN on 5/29/41 at Kearny, New Jersey, According

to these records, lALEX GOLDBERG was born on 7/2/20 at Paterson.-

New Jersey, and MIRIAM GOLDBERG was born on 73112 in Kearny,

New Jersey.

Her father was listed as,

, JACOB HETLIGMAN and

her mother as DORA 'BLOCK.

Birth records reflect MIRIAM HEILIGMAN was born on

Back

7/31/12 at Kearny, New Jersey, and that both her parents were

born in Russia.

aka

the COMMUNIST PARTY of New Jersey during 1943.

in January; 1958, that MIRIAM GOLDBeRG attended

during January, 1958, in Middlesex County, New Jersey.

COMMUNIST 9581958, la Midalesex County,

a CP meeting held

-3-

-CONF

NW 54464 DooId: 32570674 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NK 105-14316

C(us

INY 559-Sufadvised in September, 1959, that at a

State

Board meeting of the New Jersey CP the general attitude

of ALEX GOLDBERG and others was discussed with respect to

their basic policy differences with

the CP line as well as their

basic disagreement with the National and State CP leaders.

Informant stated GOLDBERG had been a member of the CP of New

Jersey for a number of years.

ANY 559-sfadvised in January, 1959, that ALEX GOLDBERG

attended a State Board meeting of the

At this meeting, GOLDBERG attacked fernanal leaders

of the Cp for a drift toward bureaucracy and away from Marxist-

Leninist principles.)

All informants mentioned have furnished reliable

information in the past.

ALEX GOLDBERG is self-employed out of his residence

at 287 Water Street; Perth Amboy, New Jersey, in selling insurance

and mutual funds.

XCOLDBERG AND COMPANY, INCORPORATED.

The latest edition

of the Hackensack, New Jersey,

Directory, (1955-56), reflects SIDNEY No

GOLDBERG aS President

of S: Goldbergand_Company, Inc., Slipper manufacturer.

GOLDBERG resides with his wife, EDNA

as at 290 clinton Place,

Hackensack, New Jersey.

Files of the Newark office contain no

In ormation

identifiable with these individuals.'

J. THE ILIGMAN

#Herlignitios

The 1960 North Arlington,

City Directory

reside at 10. F

Garden Terrace, North Arlington, New, versey.

JACOB is listed

as Assistant Rabbi, Congregational B'nal Israel.

No record was located

fOX JACOBET CHAN at the Garden

State Credit Bureau, Clifton, New Jersey,

checked on 7/30/63

or at the North Arlington, New Jersey, Police Department wher

checked on 7/31/63 by IC MEYER.

-4 -

COME

NW 54464 DooId: 32570674 Page 2

---

