# docid-32309414

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10201

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-339

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/01/1961

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

I NW 45792 Docid: 32309414 Page 1

261

---

## Page 2

1-11(6 16-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad'

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

• Radio

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER Teletype

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6-6.84

URGENT

8-1-61 9:44 PM JFA

TO DIRECTORAAND SACS, CHICAGO AND BALTIMORE

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 012350

in t

SAMUEL'M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. RE MYAIRTEL TO BUREAU JULY 27,

1961. PCI

CHAUFFEUR FOR MC GUIRE SISTERS,

ADVISED PHYLLIS REQUESTED HIM TO DRIVE HER TO OWINGS MILLS,

MARYLAND, ON AUGUST 2, 1961. MO GUIRE WILL STAY IN A MOTEL.

SHE WILL TRAVEL IN HER 1961 WHITE CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE

WITH BLACK TOP, NEVADA LICENSE NUMBER C-63414. PCI DOES NOT

KNOW PURPOSE OF HER TRIP OR LENGTHUOF PROPOSED VISIT BUT OF

OPINION SHE WILL RETURN TO NYC BEFORE SHE TRAVELS TO VALLEY

FORGE, PENNSYLVANIA, ON SUNDAY NEXT. MC GUIRE HAS ONE WEEK

ENGAGEMENT AT A SHAKESPEARE OPEN AIR THEATRE AT VALLEY FORGE.

PCI SAID HE WILL OBTAIN NAME OF MOTEL WHERE SHE WILL STAY

IN OWINGS MILLS. HE EXPECTS TO DEPART NYC ABOUT 5 PM AND

ARRIVE OWINGS MILLS 5 HOURS LATER. NYO DOES NOT PLAN ANY

SURVEILLANCE TO OWINGS MILLS. BALTIMORE REQUESTED TO CONSIDER

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE AT MOTEL WHEN NAME IS OBTAINED.

POI IN DAILY CONTACT WITH ME GUIRE SINCE JULY 24, 1961 BUT HAS

NOT SEEN SUBJECT. DOES NOT THINK SUBJECT IN NYC AT PRESENT.

MC GUIRE ASKED PCI IF HER TRUNK WAS BIG ENOUGH TO TAKE A LOT

OF "THINGS" TO OWINGS MILLS BUT DID NOT SPECIFY. FOR INFO

BALTIMORE MO GUIRE IS GIRL FRIEND OF SUBJECT WHO MAY MEET

MC GUIRE IN OWINGS MILLS.

SUBJECT IS A TOP HOODLUM OF CGO

AND CURRENTLY UNDER INTENSIFIED INVESTIGATION. CHICAGO WILL

ADVISE BALTIMORE IF SUBJECT CURRENTLY IN CHICAGO AND IF HE

DEPARTS AUGUST 2 NEXT. PHILADELPHIA WILL ALSO CONSIDER

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE COVERAGE WHEN NOTIFIED WHERE MC GUIRE

WILL STAY IN VALLEY FORGE.

COPY MAILED TO NEWARK. AND

SUBJECT SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

PHILADELPHIA.

. - 137

TELETYPE

REG 92

92-3171-33

CODING UNIT

58 AUG 8

22, AUG 3

If the intelligence contained in

above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau,

14, 93 is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

OTHER 4

+ NW 45792 DocId: 32309414

Page 2

---

