# docid-32339690

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90150-10186

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 64-42454-25

Released under the John

?. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TỌ: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/04/1961

5

• DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ANTULIO RAMIREZ ORTIZ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32339690

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAL OF INCE TIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF jOSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

REM

Ime

MAY 48

/ 1961

TELETYPE

V

VV6hr

Belmon

Callahan

No faire

Kans

alone.

Trotter

WiC stittvan

Room

Ingram"

so Gandy-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE. 10/1/85 BYSPEBJA/GeL

URGENT

15-4-61 2-08 AM

EST

WGS

TO DIRECTOR FBI AND SAC, NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

TROM SAC, OTANT

INTERNAL SEOURITY-OUSA

INTERSTATE

TRAGE ORTAI

STOLEN ARCRAFT.

EL PIRATA

CORESTS DASH CUBA, REBUTTL 5-3-61. AND MIANT AIRTEL

TO DIRECTOR FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE CAPTIONED QUOTE"

ALPHA CROFIRIST ITSA IS-

CUBA QUOTE, ON THE MORNING OF FIVE TUO SIXTY ONE A REPRESENTATIVE OF UNE

ITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL UPI AT MIAMI INFORMED THAT THE NEW YORK JOURNAL

AMERICAN WAS PUBLISHING A STORY TO THE EFFECT THAT A SOURCE IN THE

DUAL RESPONSIBLE FOR THE HIGHJACKING OF THE NATIONAL AIR LINES (NAL

PLANE AS AN AGENT OF FIDEL CASTRO. FURTHER THIS INDIVIDUAL HAD

NOTIFIED THE CASTRO REVOLUTIONARY FORCES RECARDING THE INVASION PLANS

OF THE RECENT INVASION OF CUBA FOUR SEVENTEEN SIXTY ONE WHICH BECAME

"KNOWN TO ANTI-CASTRO PEOPLE TN MIAMT THE STORY PELATED THAT THIS IND-

IVIDUAL HAS BEEN IN HIDING AND USED THIS MEANS IN ORDER TO GET BACK TO

HAD NO INFORMATION CONCERNING GIE ABOVE ALLECATIONS EACH

OF THESE INDIVIDUALS FURTHER ADVISED THEY DID NOT HAVE A TE

INFORMATION.

MAN L8 N61

linc

74 54462

DooId: 32339690

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BEGIN PAGE TWO

NOR DID THEY KNOW THE IDENTITY OF THE HIGHJACKER AND HAD NOT BEEN

IN CONTACT WITH THE NEWSPAPERS OR ANY REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESS ASSO-

CIATION. UR IS AN ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION IN CUBA WITH ONLY FOUR

MUMMI

REPRESENTATIVES IN THE UNITED STATES: ON FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE AM

FOUR NINE TWO DASH S WHO IS KNOWN PUBLICLY AS A FORMER OFFICIAL OF THE

BASTISTA 'GOVERNMENT ADVISED HE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM DAN BRIT-

TON NEW YORK JOURNAL AMERICAN NEWSPAPERMAN , NEW YORK CITY ABOUT ONE

THIRTY AM FIVE TWO SIXTY ONE. INFORMANT EXPLAINED THE JOURNALIST MADE

INQUIRY CONCERNING THE NAL PLANE HIGHJACKED ON FIVE ONE SIXTY ONE. HE

STATED BRITTON WAS WONDERING IF THE HIGHJACKER WAS A CASTRO AGENT. WHO

MIGHT HAVE INFORMED CASTRO REGARDING THE PLANS OF THE ILL-FATED INVASION

OF CUBA FOUR SEVENTEEN SIXTY ONE. BRITTON ACCORDING THE INFORMANT WAS

LOOKING FOR A NEWS STORY. MM FOUR NINE TWO DASHS ADVISED HE TOLD

BRITTON HE BELIEVED IT WAS POSSIBLE THE NAL PLANE WAS HIGHJACKED BECAUSE

THE MAN WANTED TO GO TO CUBA FOR THE MAY DAY CELEBRATION IN HAVANA AND

ANAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL IN GETTINE A COMMERCIAL FLIGHT. THE INFORMANT

SAID THERE WERE NO COMMERCIAL FLIGHTS TO CUBA

NW 54462 DooId: 32339690 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BEGIN PAGE THREE

FROM THE MIAMI AREA ON FIVE ONE SIXTY ONE AND THAT CUBANS NEEDED PERMISS

ION FROM INS OR THE US DEPARTMENT OF STATE IN ORDER TO TRAVEL TO CUBA•

THE INFORMANT AGREED WITH BRITTON THAT THIS OF COURSE COULD BE A POSS-

IBILITY BUT HAD NO INFORMATION THAT WAS ACTUALLY TRUE. MM FOUR NINE

TWO DASHS STATED HE DID NOT MENTION UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIA. HE ADVISED

#HE DOES NOT KNOW THE IDENTITY OF HIGHJACKER HOWEVER, WOULD ATTEMPT TO

ASCERTAIN HIS IDENTITY THROUGH SOURCES AVAILABLE TO HIM IN THE U. S.

AND INSIDE CUBA. BASED UPON THE ABOVE, IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE QUOTE

I| JOURNAL AMERICAN"QUOTE STORY IS MERE SPECULATION ON THE PART OF SOME

REPORTER PROBABLY BRITTON. TO CONFIRM THIS BELIEF IT IS RECOMMENDED

THE BUREAU AUTHORIZE NEW YORK TO ENDEAVOR THRQUGH ANY CONTACTS IT MIGHT

HAVE WITH THE JOURNAL AMERICAN OR FOR MIAMI TO INTERVIEW BRITTON IF HE

CAN BE LOCATED IN THIS AREA TO DETERMINE THE SOURCE OF THE STORY.

FFOR INFOR NEW YORK SUBJECT PURCHASED FOR CASH ONE WAY TICKET FROM

MIAMI TO KEY WEST FLORIDA MAY ONE LAST UNDER NAME ELPIR COFRESI ATA -

SEVERAL HOURS BEFORE DEPARTURE OF NAL FLIGHT THREE THREE SEVEN.

Being t

hone

De Loach

100D

118l6'

HH 54462 DooId: 32339690 Page 4

---

