# docid-32321756

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10377-10414

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3633

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI.

FROM: OPCA

TO: CID

TITLE :

DATE: 02/12/1998

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

49.1

DocId: 32321756

299

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• (12/31/1995)

376

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

IMMEDIATE

Date: 02/12/1998

To: Criminal Investigative

Attn:

National Security

Attn:

Office General Counsel

Attn:

Mr. Divers, Rm. 4944

Mr. Burt, RM. 4944

Mr. Fernandez, Rm.

4648

Mr. Auerswald, Rm.

4648

Mr. P. Kelley, Rm.

7338

Mr. Campbell, Rm.

7338

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Historical and Executive Review Unit (HERU)

(Formerly JFK Task Force)

Contact:

Carol L. Keeley, Ext. 0671

Drafted By: Keeley Carol

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205

(Pending)

Title: POLICY FOR INFORMANTS/ASSETS

UNDER THE JOHN F. KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION

ACT OF 1992 (THE ACT)

Synopsis:

OPCA requests the Criminal Informant/Sensitive

Information Unit, Criminal Investigative Division (CID), the

Asset Unit, National Security Division (NSD), and the

Administrative Law Unit, Office of the General Counsel (OGC)

review current policy regarding informants and assets and provide

guidance for compliance under the Act.

4h F+491029 205-3633

Details:

In 1992, Congress signed the Act mandating federal

agencies to release all documents concerning the presidential

assassination or information related by conspiracy theory to the

assassination.

The Act narrowly defined the types of information

that agencies could still protect by postponement until the year

The Act also established the Assassination Records Review

Board (the Board)

as a separate entity to oversee the release of

material from federal agencies to the National Archives and

Records Administration (the Archives).

Beyond the Board's

oversight responsibilities,

the Act charged the Board with the

duties of reviewing agencies' proposed postponements presented

with evidence for approval or denial.

the damage to the agency's program compared to the public's need

to know.

In addition, the Board researches new leads for any

relevant information concerning the assassination. Since the

Board's inception, the FBI has been working closely with them to

achieve the public enlightenment of the assassination as defined

in the Act.

DocId: 32321756 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DATE? i1-te-OLe John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Met of 1992 (1a USE 2107 Mote).

To: Criminal Inv

tigative

Congressional Affairs

Re :

62-HQ-1029205, 02/12/1998

From: Office of ublic and

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

ALL RECEIVING OFFICES

Please review and provide response for policy

revisions concerning passing authority to HERU to determine if

deceased or no information available informants in the JFK

material can be released before

Board vote.

CC:

1 - Mr. Bryant, Room 7142

1 - Mr. R. Bucknam, Room 7176

1 - Ms. Siford,

1'- Mr.

Parkinson, Room

1 - Mr. Lewis, Room 7110

от 22 0.

n 12761427

1

- Mr. Gallagher,

Room 7116

1

- OPCA Front Office,

Room 7240

1

- Mrs. Wilkins, Room 11144

1 - Mrs. Keeley, Room 11144

DocId: 32321756

Page

---

