# docid-32318987

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10368-10121

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: BAUGH

TO: BAYSE

TITLE:

DATE : 06/22/1993

' PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

- DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC WORK SHEET, FLOOR PLAN

v9.1

DocId: 32318987

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum

TO

From

Subject

Mr.

BaX

Date

6/22/93

Deo. Dir.

ADD Adm.

ADD InV.

Asst. Dir.

InteiT._

Lab..

Legal Coun.

Tech.

Servs.

& NE

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

INSTALLATION OF THREE ADDITIONAL TELEPHONES

SJFK TASK FORCE

John F KENNEOU

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION IMD

PURPOSE:

To request that three additional telephones be

installed for the JFK Task Force.

DETAILS:

The JFK Task Force has six single line phones.

Since

the creation of the Task Force the group has increased in size

from six people to 60 people. Three additional single line

telephones are now needed in room 6712.

one should be placed on the desk of Carrie Ellen Perry,

the Task Force Secretary.

One should be placed on the desk of

Deborah Beatty. One should be placed on the desk of Margaret

Feightner.

Costs for the above modifications may be applied to

cost code 1581.

Any inquiries regarding these modifications may be

directed to Carrie Ellen Perry, Extension 9260, Room 6712.

RECOMMENDATION: That this memorandum be forwarded to the

Telecommunications Services Unit, Technical Services Division,

for appropriate action.

62A-+Q-1029205-47

APPROVED:

Adm. Saris _

Crim.

Insgaction

On. of EEO Afts..

Directer

Grim, Jus Into.

Intell.

OX. ol Liaison

Laboratery

& Int. Afts.

Pist

Dea, dir.

Lagal Coun

Off, of Public

ABD-Adm.

ADD-IN.

kant

Toch sorvs.

& Cong. Atts..

3 ENCLOSURE

62A-HQ-1029205

1

1

1

1

- Mr. Bayse (Attention:

P. Cibula, Room 6431)

- Mrs. McCrum, Room 4859

Mr.

0 ' Connor

- Mr. Harmon

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(5)

7-1-93

ESTIMATED COST OF

$633.00

FOR INSTALLATONOF

TELEPLANE SERDICE.

DooId:32318987 Page 2

---

