# docid-32341025

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10418

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2824-36

Released under the John

basassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NM 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DRAIN, VINCENT E.

TO : /

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1958

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

JFC, TEST, SPECIAL GRAND JURY, B/F INT, MEETING,

ASSOC, TRA, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45754 DocId: 32341025

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

1. 92-36

S. SCOZZARI

6112 North Muscatel

San Gabriel, California

Room 316-318

ON

FRANK DESIMONE

7838 Adree Street

Downey, California

Room 316-318

REVIEWED BY BENUFA TASK FORCE

7/1198 dat

ELEASE IN FULL

OT ELEASE IN PARI

O TOTAL DENIAL

The Pennsylvania State Police report reflected

that the cost of these rooms and all attending charges

were billed to BUFALINO.

Lieutenant HARVEY W. TOTTEN, Dallas Police

Department, advised SA VINCENT E. DRAIN on Fébruary 9,

1958, that

a Sergeant REYNOLDS of the New York State

Police and JOHN MC KEON of the Westchester County

District Attorney's Office, contacted TOTTEN or

February 9, 1950. They advised TOTTEN

they had

surveilled JOSERH FRANCIS CIVELLO and his wife from

New York to

Dallas, Texas, and that the subject had

just arrived in Dallas via the Texas and Pacific

Railroad.

These individuals stated that CIVELLO

contacted no one enroute from New York to Dallas..

Mr. CHARLES MOORE of the Intelligence Unit

of the Texas Department of Public Safety, advised

on February 11, 1958, that they had learned through a

reliable source that CIVELLO had contacted his brother

CHARLES CIVELLO by telephone on February 11, 1958, and

excitedly told his brother that the Internal Revenue

agents had just left his office and It looked like they

were trying to make.

a case on him.

On February 10, 1958 SA WILLIAM GIBSON, of

the United States Internal Revenue Division of Dallas,

Texas, advised SA VINCENT E. DRAIN that

JER Law 11(a)

Confidential Informant I3, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advised on February 12

1958, that CIVELLO, after his return from New York,

had

contacted HARRY D. KAHN, an oil broker in the

10

92-2824-36

NW 45754 DooId: 32341025 Page 2

---

## Page 3

92-36

INFORMANT PAGE

T] Is CHARLES GALE, Manager, Southwestern Beil

Telephone Company, Altus, Oklahoma.

I2 is a Confidential Informant of the Oklahoma

City Division, 00-336-0, whose Identity is

known to the

Bureau.

T3 Is PCI

of the Dallas Division.

I4 is PCI

of the Dallas

Division.

JEK Act 6 (4)

15

912-2824-36

1H 45754

DooId:32341025 Page 3

---

