# docid-32301239

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10074

HQ

105-86025-2, 2X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/08/1960

PAGES:

14

• SUBJECTS :

LCA, REFUGEE, TRA, NY, NY, MM, FL, ASSOC, PRO-CASTRO

ACT, REL, POLIT ASLYUM, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, NOTE

DocId: 32301239

Page

---

## Page 2

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(JFR)

W. E. ESPARTMENI OF JUSTICE

GOMMOURUGADICAS SEGTION

APRE

1960

TELETYPE

Mr. Tilson

Mr.

Mr. Mohr

DS: Mis Raton

12. Satis hat

AEr.

Mr.

iTr.

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Parin

Mr. T".

Me. W

Tele. Mom

Mir. Ingrama

Miss Gati

RECAPS CITAS NO DICTION TI

VATION

TO

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

5P

LUIS ERNESTO CONTE AGUERO. IS-CUBA. RA, THE APRIL SEVEN, LAST

ISSUE "MIAMI HERALD", BEARS ARTICLE ENTITLED "CASTRO PRO-RED

PRISONER, SAYS EXILED NEWSMAN." THIS ARTICLE REFLECTED THAT

JUIS CONTE AGUERO.

NEWS COMMENTATOR FOR HAVANA STATION CMO,

ARRIVED MIAMI APRIL SIX, AFTER HAVING SOUGHT REFUGES IN ARGENTINE

EMBASSY, HAVANA, PRIOR TO DEPARTURE. AGUERO STATED HE FLEW TO

UoS. TO WRITE, SPEAK, AND TELL THE TRUTH ABOUT CUBA, THAT FIDEL

CASTRO IS NOT A COMMUNIST BUT IS A PRISONER OF PRO-COMMUNISTS,

6100

3ph0g.

THAT DANGER IN CUBA IS NOT THE COMMUNISTS WHO ARE FEW, BUT THE

PRO- COMMUNISTS WHO ARE STRONG.

ACCORDING TO ARTICLE

HE EXPECTS TO

WRITE BOOKS, NEWSPAPER ARTICLES, LECTURE,

105- 86025

AND SPEAK ON RADIO AND

-2 X

TELEVISION ABOUT CUBA. HE SAID ASIATE REGREWO CHILDREN ILLE

FOLLOW HIM INTO EXILE IN U.S. IN ABOUT A WEEK.

HE STARED18.1960

So MAKES MISTAKE BY TOLERATING ILLEGAL FLIGHTS OVER CUBA:

CANE FIELD FIRE BOMBERS AND SHOULD EXERCISE GREATER VIGILANCE.

END PAGE ONE

D3o B92zIo0

4) Y

M1s16OO COPIES

UTO

RELAYED TO

DocId: 32301239

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

HE EXPECTED LIVE IN NOY. AND LEFT FOR MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIR-

PORT TO DEPART. TODAY, MRSE ADDITALK, PROTECT, MIAMI, WHO HAS

FURNISHED BOTH RELIABLE AND UNRELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST,

AND WHO IS ACQUAINTED WITH MANY HIGH OFFICIALS OF FORMER BATISTA

GOVERNMENT, REPORTED THAT YESTERDAY SHE RECEIVED FROM CLOSE

FRIENDS AND FOLLOWERS OF ERNESTO DE LAS

MES FORMER SECRETARO

5:1072244457

OF WORLD ANTI-COMMUNIST LEAGUE, WHO IS PRISONER AT MARD LABOR IN

CUBAL FOLIOVING INFORMATION, LUIS CONTE AGUIRO IS NOT A ROUTIDE

REFUGEE FROM CASTRO GOVERNMENT, HIS PRESENCE IN U.S. IS BY DESIGN

OF FIDEL CASTRO, TO SERVE CASTRO GOVERNMENT, AND WILL MAKE VARIOUS

PUBLIC APPEARANCES AND HOLD VARIOUS CONFERENCES. HIS ACTIVITIES

HAVE BEEN PLANNED BY "THE FIVE. * MRS. FALK STATED THESE FIVE

ARE FIDEL CASTRO, HIS BROTHER RAUL CASTRO, ERNESTO CHE GUEVARA,

ANTONIO

SIMENEZ

NUNEZ, HEAD OF THE AGRARIAN REFORM PROGRAM, AND

JUAN MARIANEL, MOST POWERFUL MAN IN CUBAN CP. FALK DECLINED TO

IDENTIFY BY NAME INDIVIDUALS FROM WHOM SHE RECEIVED, THIS INFORMATION,

BUT INSISTED THAT THEY WERE MOST RELIABLE. TODAY MARIANO

FAGET, PSI, FORMER CHIEF OF BUREAU FOR REPRESSION COMMUNIST

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32301239 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

ACTIVITIES, CUBA, ADVISED HE HAD RECEIVED NO EVIDENCE REFLECTING

LUIS CONTE AGUERO IS AGENT OF CASTRO GOVERNMENT, BUT HE CONSIDERED

CIRCUMSTANCES OF AGUERO-S PRESENCE SUSPICIOUS UPON BASIS NEWS-

PAPER ARTICLE ABOVE• HE POINTED OUT IT IS MOST UNUSUAL FOR

CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO ALLOW ANY RELATIVES OF ENEMIES OR CRITICS

TO DEPART CUBA, THAT HIS FACT IS WELL KNOWN AND CONSEQUENTLY

AGUERO SHOULD HAVE SENT HIS FAMILY TO U.S. PRIOR TO BLASTING

CUBAN GOVERNMENT PUBLICLY. FAGEI STATED LUIS CONTE AGUÈRO IS

HALE FROZER OF ANERS VERSEURO, TONER PRESTIEN FLIC

7/a=

OF CUBA, WHO NOW RESIDES MIAMI IN EXILE. TODAY GILL BARRERAS,

PSI, ADVISED THAT ON APRIL SEVEN, LAST, FERNANDO BUSTO, CUBAN EXILE

IN MIAMI, ACCIDENTALLY MET CONTE AT AIRPORT AND ASKED IF HE

HAD SEEN HIS HALF BROTHERS, ANDRES AND EMILIO. CONTE TOLD BUSTO

HE HAD NOT TALKED WITH THEM BECAUSE HE DID NOT HAVE THEIR

TELEPHONE NUMBERS OR ADDRESSES. UPON BEING SUPPLIED WITH SAME, CONTE

TALKED TO EMILIO-S WIFE.

RIVERO, ORDING PELLAS

Na IS SUSPECTED BY EMILIO

BEING PRO-FIDEL CASTRO, BECAUSE IN

PUBLIC INTERVIEW, CONTE HAD NOT TALKED BADLY ABOUT CASTRO OR

ATTACKED HIM.. EMILIO HIGHLY SUSPECTS CONTEIS A PLANT FOR SOME

UNKNOWN PURPOSE, WHICH MAY BE SIMILAR TO THAT PLAYED BY WILLIAM

ALEXANDER MORGAN

IN THE TRINIDAD INCIDENT, ON BEHALF OF CASTRO.

END PAGE THREE

3)

DocId: 32301239 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-17-2017

Priso

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEG

(JFK)

CERAL SURAN DENSUGAR

U. 5. DEPARIMENT OF FUSTICE

GOMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APRO

1960

TELETYPE

Wing Gundy

URGENT

TO

4-8-60

1-52 PM

SK

DIRECTOR, FBI, AND SACS NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

5P

" LUIS ERNESTO CONTE AGUERO.

RA

IS-CUBA• RA. THE APRIL SEVEN, LAST

ISSUE "MIAMI HERALD", BEARS ARTICLE ENTITLED CASTRO PRO-RED

PRISONER, SAYS EXILED NEWSMAN." THIS ARTICLE REFLECTED THAT

4-10

LUIS CONTE AGUERO, NEWS COMMENTATOR FOR HAVANA STATION CMO,

ARRIVED MIAMI APRIL SIX, AFTER MAVING SOUGHT REFUGES IN ARGENTINE

EMBASSY, HAVANA, PRIOR TO DEPARTURE. AGUERO STATED WE FLEW TO

OU.S. TO WRITE, SPEAK, AND TELL THE TRUTH ABOUT CUBA, THAT FIDEL

SE CASTRO IS NOT A CONMUNIST BUT IS A PRESONE OR PRO COMINOS

* _ THAT DANGER IN CUBA IS NOT THE COMMUNISTS WHO ARE FEW, BUT THE

PRO-COMMUNISTS WHO ARE STRONG ACCORDING TO ARTICLE, HE EXPECTS TO

V LOWRITE BOOKS, NEWSPAPER ARTICLES, LECTURE, AND SPEAK ON RADIO AND

§ TELEVISION ABOUT CUBA. HE SAID HIS NICE AND TWO CHILDREN WILL

FOLLOW HIM INTO EXILE IN U.S. IN ABOUT A WEEKS HE STATED U•

S. MAKES MISTAKE BY TOLERATING ILLEGAL FLIGHTS OVER CUBA, BY

CANE FIELD FIRE BOMBERS AND SHOULD EXERCISE GREATER VIGILANCE

Mich

END PAGE ONE

105-86020 12

TWO COPLES WEO

RELAYED TO

DocId: 32301239

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1952, Cause 270 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

HE EXPECTED LIVE IN N.Y• AND LEFT FOR MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIR-

PORT TO DEPART. TODAY, MRS ADA TALK, PROTECT, MIAMI, WHO HAS:

FURNISHED BOTH RELIABLE AND UNRELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST,

AND WHO IS ACQUAINTED WITH MANY HIGH OFFICIALS OF FORMER BATISTA

GOVERNMENT, REPORTED: THAT YESTERDAY SHE RECEIVED FROM CLOSE

FRIENDS AND FOLLOWERS OF ERNESTO DE LA FE, FORMER SECRETARY

OF WORLD ANTI-COMMUNIST LEAGUE, WHO IS PRISONER AT HARD LABOR IN

CUBA: FOLLOWING INFORMATION. LUIS CONTE AGUERO IS NOT A BONATIDE

REFUGEE FROM CASTRO GOVERNMENT, HIS PRESENCE IN U.S. IS BY DESIGN

OF FIDEL CASTRO, TO SERVE CASTRO GOVERNMENTS

AND WILL MAKE VARIOUS

PUBLIC APPEARANCES AND HOLD VARIOUS CONFERENCES HIS ACTIVITIES

HAVE BEEN PLANNED BY THE FIVE. " MRS. TALK STATED THESE FIVE

ARE FIDEL CASTRO, MIS BROTHER RAUL CASTRO, ERNESTO CHE GUEVARA,

ANTONIO

JIMENEZ NUNEZ, HEAD OF THE AGRARIAN REFORM PROGRAM, AND

MAO/NELLO

JUAN MARTANEL,

MOST POWERFUL MAN IN CUBAN CP. FALK DECLINED TO

IDENTITY BY NAME INDIVIDUALS FROM WHOM SHE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION,

BUT INSISTED THAT THEY WERE MOST RELIABLE: TODAY MARIANO

FAGET, PSI, FORMER CHIEF OF BUREAU FOR REPRESSION COMMUNIST

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32301239 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released

under

the.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1AE10A10001

hotel.

PAGE. THREE

ACTIVITIES, CUBA, ADVISED HE HAD RECEIVED NO. EVIDENCE, REFLECTING

LUIS CONTE AGUERO IS AGENT OF CASTRO GOVERNMENT, BUT HE CONSIDERED

CIRCUMSTANCES OF AGUERO-S PRESENCE SUSPICIOUS UPON BASIS NEWS-

PAPER ARTICLE ABOVE HE POINTED OUT IT IS MOST UNUSUAL FOR*

CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO ALLOW ANY RELATIVES OF ENEMIES OR CRITICS

TO DEPART CUBA, THATTHIS FACT IS WELL KNOWN AND CONSEQUENTLY

AGUERO SHOULD HAVE SENT HIS FAMILY TO US PRIOR TO BLASTING

CUBAN GOVERNMENT PUBLICLY, FAGET STATED LUIS CONTE AGUERO IS

HALE BROTHER OF ANDRES RIVERO AGUERO, FORMER PRESIDENT ELECT

OF CUBA, WHO NOW RESIDES MIAMI IN EXILE. TODAY GILL BARRERAS,

PSI, ADVISED THAT ON APRIL SEVEN, LAST, FERNANDO, BUSTO, CUBAN EXILE

IN MIAMI, ACCIDENTALLY MET CONTE AT AIRPORT AND ASKED IF HE

HAD SEEN HIS HALF BROTHERS, ANDRES AND EMILIO. CONTE TOLD BUSTO

HE HAD NOT TALKED WITH THEM BECAUSE HE DID NOT HAVE THEIR

TELEPHONE NUMBERS OR ADDRESSES. UPON BEING SUPPLIED WITH SAME, CONTE

TALKED TO EMILIO-S WIFE CONTE IS SUSPECTED BY EMULIO

RIVERO, ACCORDING PSI, AS BEING PRO-FIDEL CASTRO, BECAUSE IN

PUBLIC INTERVIEU, CONTE HAD NOT TALKED BADLY ABOUT CASTRO OR

ATTACKED HIM. EMILIO HIGHLY SUSPECTS CONTEIS A PLANT FOR SOME

UNKNOWN PURPOSE, WHICH MAY BE SIMILAR TO THAT PLAYED BY WILLIAM

ALEXANDER MORGAN IN THE TRINIDAD INCIDENT, ON BEHALF OF CASTRO:

END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32301239 Page 7

---

