# docid-32309854

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10120

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1499-3RD NR 111, 4TH NR 111, 5TH NR 111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/03/1963

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION: • Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF USCG

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO USCG, INC TTY, A/T, LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32309854

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 13-19-201?

FOREV

4/10/63

PLAIN TEXT

AIRTEL

REGISTERED - AIR MAIL

Misda

NO OBJECTION TO

I AND/OR.

URMATION

CIA HAS

DECLAS

RELERCE

IN THIS DOCUMENT, K P

TO:

FROM:

SID/KSR

11-89-970

П-К,

61-13-95

Claseifted ty

5408 540 8H

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-102448)

SAC, MIAMI (2-323)

(P)

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

(FRENTE ESCAMERAY)

APROPPINE AGINE NES

(CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST ARMIID EJILD

(ESCAMBRAY FRONT) :

ADVISER 3

IS - CUBA;

SIIPS) OF

RA • CUBA;

DATI

ATT, INFORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFTED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Re Mi teletypes to the Bureau 4/5/63.

Enclosed are nine coples of a LiM, dated and

captioned as above.

INS, Custons and CIA have been Furnished coples

of the Li.

MA I-1 iS MA

639-S, nho received laformation

ectly fron FRANK ANTHONY

STURGIS, alta. Frank Florind.

Nassau, Bahamas ho telephonically contacted the Man 08--

fice on 3/30/65:

• Bureau (Encls, -9) (RM) (AM)

2 - Miami

Classied b/20%10

#rempt frog GDS, Category

Date vi Doclassitication Indefinite

RJD: CK

6/13/18

CLASSIFJED AND

(5)

EXTENDIO

M SORTER CACOS309+1499e

REASCA

FCIM, I!

172-98

NOT RECORDED

DATE 0.

APR 24 1963

DECLASSI

4/30/3-==

ENCLOSORE

Fren

SECRET

5 Б APR 3 ( 1952

DocId: 32309854

Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210

‹ Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

2-323

1a 1oj 10 MI 639-3, tho receired

the information

directly from FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS

MA IOL tO LLeutenant AARON ROGERS, Intelligence Of-

ficer, U. S. Coast Guard, Mlami.

It le noted that MN 639-S Is doubly concealed la

the enclosed Inh. This is because he vas in direct contact

WIth FRANK ARTHONY STURGIS, who 1s suspected by MY 639-s

and U. S. Custons of being

a CIA Informants

For the intormation of the Bureau,

and

dentially advised that it appears to them that cIA had all

the details concerning the "lolyn IlI"; prior to lis depar-

cure did not notily U. S._ Custons;

and,

then arranged fox

the British authoricles to seize the boat.

Thus, CIA withheld

information fron Customs concerning & matter within the latter"

jurisdiction, causing embarrassment to U. S. Custons.

The enclosed IHM Is classified Confidential to pro-

teet an informant of contiming value.

Miani will follow this macter with INS and U. S.

Customs and keep

the Bureau advised.

USES

REVIENED BY ESYUFK TASK FORCE

ON

11-23.97 cat

CON

RELEASE IN FULL

=2=

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HỘ M

DocId: 32309854 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ReTeased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

boarded the "Violyn III."

The two larger boats then

departed for an unknown destination.

returned

to Florida In the sell boac." if and Johnson

MM T-2,

confidential source abroad, on March 30,

1963, advised that

Frank Florini, Bill Johnson,"

and Jose Maria

Gonzalez Hernandez, a Cuban radio operator and technician,

arrived in Nassau on March 29, 1963, and stayed at the Pilot

House Hotel. The following day, March 30, 1963, these three

persons rented a plane and flew

• to Norman

Key.

That same day,

British authorities arrested them, and on the evening of

that day put them on a commercial

alrline for Mami, FloridaS

On April 3, 1963, MM I-3, who has furnished reliable

Information in the past, obtained some information from an

untested source with contacts in the Bahamas, who obtained

information from an unidentified person.

He advised that it

was reported that several hours after Florini was arrested

on Norman Key, British authorities in the Bahamas stopped and

and Jezzy Buchanen who weze aboard. (Usome chliteen Cubans

boarded the "Violyn III" and arrested

On April 4, 1963, MM I-3 advised that the British

authorities released the "Violyn III" and the crew, and 1n-

structed them to proceed to Miami. The other boat which

originally accompanied the "Violyn III," name of this boat

unknown, escaped and was being sought by the British and the

United States Coast Guard.U

- 3-

SECRET

2-499-577MR 111

DocId: 32309854

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

SECRET

RE: EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

On April 4, 1963, Fiorini reportedly claimed that

he had been in radio contact with the above-mentioned uniden-

tified boat, and it was tied up at an island in the Bahamas,

exact location of which was not disclosed. The boat was re-

and heard the U. S. Coast Guard planes

flying above in an effort to locate it. Fiorini claimed he

could supply this unidentified boat with fuel and food, if

requested by this boat, and that he had available an Aero-

Commander airplane in Miami and two fast powerboats located

somewhere north of Miami. It wag not known what manner of

radio communication

was used by Fiorini to contact the un-

identified boat.

-

On April 4, 1963, local newspaper, radio stations

and television stations in Miami, Florida, reported that the

"Violyn III" had departed from Nassau and was enroute to

Miami with a U. S. Coast Guard escort. Miami Attorney Charles

R. Ashmann made press announcements that the crew of the "vio-

lyn III" would not return to the United States.

In the early morning hours of April 5, 1963, MMI-3

advised that Ashmann claimed the "Violyn III" would rendez-

vous with the other

Infiltration mission to Cuba.

unt dent! fled of and would complate its

On April 5, 1963, MM I-4, a representative of another

Government agency, advised

that on

the afternoon of April 4,

1963, the 'Violyn III" left Nassau, Bahamas, on a general course

for the United States, and at that date was at the north tip of

SECRET

-4-

DocId: 32309854

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

INS

REVIEWED BY ESNUFK FASR FORCE

14/98 lab

BELGASE IN FULL

RE:

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA

Andros Island in the Bahamas. Because the "Violyn III"

was in shallow water, the U. S. Coast Guard discontinued

its surveillance of the "Violyn III" by boat, and the sur-

veillance was taken over by U. S. Coast Guard aircraft.

At about 8:20 P.M., the "Violyn III" turned off its running

lights and had not been seen by the Coast Guard since that

time.

MM T-4 reported that there is a Sigma-type Cuban

Sigma boat was possibly the boat that was supposed to rendez-

vous with the "Violynn III" for an infiltration mission in-

to Cuba. There is an airplane landing strip at Williams Key.

which could not be used because someone had placed a great

an a beans

quantity of rocks and driftwood on the runway.

On April 5, 1963, Mr. Chester A. Woish, Chief,

Investigations Branch, Immigration and Naturalization Service,

Miami, advised that the "Violyn III" had just arrived at the:

seawall, Key Biscayne, Miami.

The Cubans aboard were to be

taken by INS authorities to INS detention facility at Opa

Locka, Florida, where interviews were to be conducted, and

any United States citizens on board were to be taken by INS...

authorities to INS Headquarters in Miami, where these indi-

viduals would be interviewed for any possible violations of

Federal law concerning U. S. passport regulations.

Property of FBI - This document is loaned to you by

the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed

RELEASE IN PART

outside

the agency to which loaned.

CONFIDENTIAL,

TOTAL DENIAL

SECREV CA

•5% -

DocId: 32309854

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F.

Kernedy Assassination

Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107

Hiptel.

DATE, 11-14+2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGALIUN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR

$ 1963

TELEMYPE

CLASSIFED AN

EXTENDE

REASON

SPaTER(RH(24) 3/31/39

FCIM, 11,

DATE C

DECLASSIFICAN

ON

URGENT

4-5-63

4/ 5/80

DECIASSIFIED BY 5668GLD/E

00 3-12-95

12-27 PM

EST

HSB

APPROPRIAZE AGENCIES

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr-

Casper

MI.

Mr. Callahan

MT.

Conrad

Mr.

DeLoach

MI-

Evans.

Vir.

Gale.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

ViT.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss

Holmes

Miss Gandy.

DIRECTOR FBI / 105- 102448/

FROM SAG, MIAMI /2-323/

SIIP

DATE

EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA PAREN FRENTE ESCAMBRAY PAREN

PAREN CUBAN ANTI COMMUNIST ARMY PAREN PAREN ESCAMBRAY FRONT PAREN

IS

FASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBA, NM.

FRANK FIORINI

REMYTEL APRIL THREE LAST.

ON APRIL FOUR, SIXTYTHREE, MY SIX THREE NINE DASH S WHO HAS

BEEN ACTIVE IN CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY MATTERS FOR THE PAST FIVE YEARS,

AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST, ADVISED

AS FOLLOWS DI

ON APRIL THREE, SIXTYTHREE, IN THE LATE EVENING HOURS FRANK •

ANTHONY STURGIS, AKA FRANK FIORINI, AMERICAN INVOLVED IN CUBAN REVO

LUTIONARY ACTIVITY, STATED THAT UNTIL RECENTLY THE VIOLIN THIRD

MAD BEEN LOCATED AT NAPLES, FLORIDA, UNDER FIORINI-S CONTROL. AN

INFILTRATION MISSION WAS PLANNED BY FIORINI AND EVELIO DUQUE WHEREIN

DUQUE AND HIS

WE WOULD INFILTRATE INTO CUBA AND FIORINI WOULD

LATER SUPPLY 'TRON

BY FLAME NG THE U. SWA

END PAGE ONE

2-1499=

ROT RECORDED

150 APR 12 1963

1028

ORIGINAL

DocId: 32309854 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F.

Regnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR

SOMEWHERE NORTH OF MIAMI. IT IS NOT KNOWN WHAT METHOD OF RADIO

CONMIMICATION IS USED BY FIORINI TO CONTACT THE MISSING BOAT.

ON THE EVENING OF APRIL FOUR, SIXTYTHREE, LOCAL PRESS AND RADIO

STATIONS STATED THAT THE VIOLIN THIRD HAD DEPARTED NASSAU AND WAS

EN ROUTE TO MIAMI WITH A U. S COAST GUARD ESCORT.

MIAMI ATTORNEY CHARLES R. ASHMANN, WHO IS INVOLVED IN CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY, MADE A PRESS ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE CREW OF

VIOLIN THIRD WOULD NOT RETURN TO THE U. S IN THE EARLY MORNING

HOURS OF APRIL FIVE, SIXTYTHREE, MY SIX THREE NINE DASH S WAS TOLD

BY ASHMANN THAT THE VIOLIN THIRD WOULD RENDEZVOUS WITH THE OTHER

BOAT AND WOULD CONTINUE ITS INFILTRATION MISSION INTO CUBA•

ON APRIL FIVE, SIXTYTHREE U. S: GOAST GUARD ADVISED THAT ON

THE AFTERNOON OF APRIL FOUR, SIXTYTHREE, VIOLIN THIRD LEFT NASSAU ON

A GENERAL COURSE FOR THE U. S. AND THAT DAY WAS NEAR THE NORTH TIP

OF ANDROS ISLAND, BAHAMAS, IN SHALLOW WATER AND COULD NO LONGER BE.

END. PAGE FOUR

DocId: 32309854 Page 8

---

## Page 9

/ Released

under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PACE FIVE

FOLLOWED BY THE COAST CUARD BOAT. THE COAST GUARD THEREAFTER TOOK

UP SURVEILLANCE BY AIR. AFTER DARKNESS SET IN THE SURVEILLANCE WAS

CONTINUING. AT ABOUT EIGHT TIENTY. P.M. THE VIOLIN THIRD TURNED OFF

ITS RUNNING LICHTS AND HAS NOT BEEN SEEN BY. THE COAST GUARD SINCE.

ITS PRESENT WHEREABOUTS ARE UNKNOWN. THE COAST GUARD IS NOW INSTITUTIN

A COMPLETE AIR SEARCH FOR THE VIOLIN THIRD.

THE COAST GUARD SAID THERE IS A SIGNA TYPE CUBAN FISHING BOAT

WHICH WAS SPOTTED NEAR WILLIAMS ISLAND OET THE COAST OF ANDROS ISLAND

ON APRIL FIVE, SIXTYTHREE, WHICH BOAT MAY BE THE MISSING BOAT AND THE ON

SUPPOSED.

^ TO RENDEZVOUS WITH THE VIOLIN THIRD. THERE IS A LANDING STIP AT

WILLIAMS ISLAND WHICH HOWEVER CANNOT BE USED BECAUSE SOMEONE PLACED

A GREAT QUANTITY OF ROCKS AND DRIFTUCOD ON THE RUNWAY. THE COAST

GUARD HAS BEEN UNABLE TO IDENTIFY THIS SIGMA TYPE BOAT IN THE VICINITY

OF WILLIAMS ISLAND.

AT THE PRESENT TIME THE U•S: COAST GUARD DOES NOT KNOW THE

PRESENT UNEREABOUTS OF VIOLIN THIRD AND A LARGE AIR AND SEA SEARCH

END PAGE FIVE.,

DocId: 32309854 Page 9

---

## Page 10

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records

Collegtion Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-3917

PAGE SIX

IS BEING MADE TO LOCATE IT.

ALL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY MM SIX THREE NINE DASH S HAS BEEN

DISSEMINATED TO COAST GUARD, CUSTOMS, INS AND CIA. - CLOSE LIAISÓN

IS BEING MAINTAINED. CONTACT WILL BE CONTINUED WITH MM SIX THREE

NINE DASH S AND THE BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED. ALL AGENCIES TO

WHOM THIS INFORMATION DISSEMINATED HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT FBI SOURCE

OF THE INFORMATION HAS CLOSE CONTACT WITH ASHMANN AND FIORINI AND

INDISCREET INQUIRY WILL COMPROMISE OUR SOURCE. LETTERHEAD MEMO

FOLLOWS.

CORR PAGE FIVE, LINE TEN FIRST WORD SHE BE SUPPOSED TO BEDDED

CORA PACE TIVE, LINE ELIVEN VO LIM TEN VORD QUELVE SUD BE - STRIP.*

DID AND ACK PLS

CORRECTION:

LAST WORD LINE WINE PREE FIVE PL

12-47 PM K

TU DISC

OK FBI WA MET

ORIG: MR. BELMONT FOR DIRECTOR

DocId: 32309854 Page 10

---

