# docid-32170701

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

FBI

124-10172-10020

105-82555-4652

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DIRECTOR, CIA

DATE: 08/14/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

LHO, EVID, INTERVIEW SUSPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

07/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32170701

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

(S) 105-82565

Date:

To:

Beinont

1

- Deloach

I:

= Rosier AS NO OBJECTION TO

..! AND/OR

ADVI

FORMATION,

DATE (-23/M

DATE

IN THUS DUCIEN

August I4, 1964

I o Sullivan

1

• Malley

247C0COr

1

-

Branigan

Contral Intelligence Agency

1

1

-

Liaison

Leo

Attention; Deputy Director,

Plans

Stokes

John Tidger Roover, Director

Fien

LEC HALVEY OSHAED

NUP CiA

MAILED 3

AUG 17-1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

• Rosen

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

COMM-FBI

Subject:

Reference is made to. our letter in this caso

dated July 28, 1064, dealing eith Ostald's possession

of the nano Let or Leo Betyaey, an amouncer at Radio

Hoscow, and his refezence in personal papers to having

participated in a taped intervier broadest by Dadio

2200

to Britiah Socurity Service, IT-S Report Wuber 21

(S)

captioned "Personalities in Radio loscou Known to

Viaduct, " a

copy of which is belleved to be in your

possession*&)further reforence to lev Setynev and his

current mite, Annette (Anita) Setyaove,

hee

Lugold,

is

contesned in you letver in unis case

156, YOw reterence, Gsci-/ 05,900

dared debruary 24

REC 30-

With referencesto the matter

at hape,

there

are enclosed seven protograpis described no follous l

(1) A photograph of six individuals, ho were

reportedly nembers of

the North Anerican

^ Section of Radio

Loscow as of June, 1960. The date of

thas protestann 13

vakzown.

no andividuaas copseted thereas from leat to

right are reportedly identifiable as follous:

sergeyev;

(L) Nikolat

(2) Annette (Anita) Sotyseva,

Zugolf,

formerly known as Annette Goldshtey.

Go

ein)

and (s) (U)

JaS rah pah

- 18

(14)

003 MAD, HIS,

DoG

Peong 0

(2/10/97

TION CONTA

GLASSED

NMOHS ЗУЗНА

OTHERWISE

1273. 4806

1 - Dallas

(100-10461)

I= 65-68331

(Viaduct

+ 9 AUG-28 1964201

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

JI

GHOUP 1

Excluded rom automatic

downgrading and

declassification

(SES NOTS PAGE 4)

Vite

DocId: 32170701 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectien Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Director

SECRETA

Central Intelligence Agency

Annette Menkina

(Khenkina);

Bucar;

(5) Sergei

(3)

Joseph Adanov;

(4) Annabelle

• Rudin; and (6) Lucy

(01ga)

Pravdina (*u)

(2) Head photograph of Annette Setyaeva

BICH (U)

(3) Full length photograph of Annette Setyseve

(4) Photograph of Radio Moscow personnel reportedly

bn December 27,

right are:

(1) Lucy

(3) Serget Rudin, (4) :

Joseph Adanov, and. (5) Nikolat

Sergeyev (sitting). (

(5) Photograph of Radio Moscow personnel reportedly

taken September 9, 1960.

Depleted thereta

fron left to right

are Adanov, Setysova, Bucar and Budin.

(6) Photograph reportedly taken June 1,

1957,

depicting

(1) adult male, one (Piret Nane Unnown) Henkin;

(2) Annette beryasya,

formerly Benitina; and (3) child;

Kostia Hensin

(7) Photograph of wedding party, depicting (1) et

far left,head of Annette Setyaeva;

12% her son Kostia Benkin

(3) unknown lenale; (4) Annette Setyaeva's daughter,

Mox ina,

maiden name untown, but: probably Goldshteyn (Goldstein;

(5) Vashi (Last Name Unknown), husband of Marina; and (6)

four unknown individuals, two

males and two females Flu)

02 the various individuals depicted in the enclosed

photographs,

Joseph Adanov is belleved identical to the person

a same nene we is tererred to paragraph too of fritis

Security Service Report Number

y Tererred to abover and (

Annabelle Bucar is belloved identical to the person eferred

to in paragraph six of the report * Sergei Rudin 1a likely&

identical with the Rudimenneterred to in paragraphs eleven

and 17 of the British report 5)

Annetce Setyaeva is bedoved to be identical with

the Annette Goldstein (Shenkina pterned so in paragraph

or the reporte

This person was born October 13, 2913,

Lake Stevens,

Washingtony

to Willdan K. Zugolf,

2 kussion

national; and tillie Hey

Novards who was born at Northland,

Michagan, to 1902.

Setynova's nother, presentay

known as

Llilie Hey Rahm, resides at Ketchikan, Alasta.

SECRET

DocId: 32170701

Page 3

---

## Page 4

ReTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE :

11-14-2017

SECRETI

Dizoctor

Central Intolligence Ageney

19103?

le would also appreciate any biographical data

including descriptive material that Viaduce may be able to

tunish concerning Lev or Leo Setyaev and we would like to

have Viaduot's views as to hor Setyev!s name: cano to be in

the possession of lee Harvey Oswald. Finally, ve would

Like to know 11 Viaduct can furnish any information concern-

ing the possible participation by Oswald in a

taped interview

broadcast by Radio. Moscow: 1n: late 1959.

Enclosures (7)

NOTE:

previous commnications concerting the matter at hard.

Classifted "Secret as 11-5 and cra hanso elvisdait,

a low-level KGB agent no defected to the British in 9/65) is (S

presently in the U.S. under CIA control.

this bonarzaes

not been established and he is suspected to be a plant.

CIA,

according to Papich, plans to extensively interriow him in an

effort to reach a conclusion as to his benefides.

He was a

miter and was associated with Radio Moscow in the late 1950s an

M-S Beport dumber 24 Sets forth considerable intormation con

cerning

individuals associated with Radio Moscow, some of whom

he suspects to be in the service of the KGB.

From personal papers

of Oswald, it is believed he engaged in a broadcast over Radio

Moscow in late 1959.

He admitted this to his wife who cannot

furnish further details.

Viaduct may be able to fill us in in this

regara

SECRET

- 4 -

DocId: 32170701

Page 4

---

