# docid-32300080

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10226-10360

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-263

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, LV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

06/17/1961

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, TRA, LV, NV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300080

Page 1

395

---

## Page 2

Released unter the John F. Kennetly Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 711 USe 2105

DATE: 11-14-2017•

7:0773on

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGALION

COMMUNICATIONS®

JUN1 7 1961

TELETYP

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrap

Mr. DeLoagh

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

URGENT

6-17-51 2-37

PM

JB

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI AND

SAC-S CHICAGO AND NEW YORK

Tele. Roonl

Mr. Ingram

FROM SAC LAS VEGAS

92-308

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED: Gandy.

HEREIV IS UNCLASSIFIED

NIA WA TO NEW YORK

DATE4-2084 BYSPSBE

RE SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AR OO- CHICAGO. RE NY TEL SIX SIXTEEN INSTANT,

STATING TEETER ADVISED SUBJECT HAD WHITE CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE

DELIVERED TO PHYLLIS MC GUIRE OF MC GUIRE SISTERS. ABOUT JUNE

THIRTEEN LAST FISUR HERE REFLECTED CADILLAC OF THIS DESCRIPTION

BEARING SIXTY ONE NEVADA LICENSE C SIX THREE FOUR ONE FOUR PARKED

AT LAND MARK APARTMENTS LAS VEGAS AFTERNOON SIXTEENTH INSTANT.

REGISTERATION THIS CAR BEING CHECKED BUT LICENSE TOO RECENT TO BE FILED

NOTE JOE PIGNATELLO HAS APARTMENT IN LANDMARK. FISUR OF PHYLLIS M

MC GUIRE PLACED HER WITH THREE SUIT CASES IN THIS CAR WITH UNKNOWN

DRIVER POSSIBLE IDENTICAL WITH CHOP CHOP AT ONE FIVE FIVE A. M. ON

DESERT INN HOTEL PARKING LOT SEVENTEENTH INSTANT. CHOP CHOP, WHO

POSSIBLY DROVE CADILLAC TO LAS VEGAS FROM CHICAGO IS BEING IDENTIFIED

BY CHICAGO. THEY DROVE IN CADILLAC TO LAND MARK APARTMENTS WHERE

MET OTHER MC GUIRE SISTERS. ALL HAD DRINKS AT POOL SIDE.

FORTY A. M. SEVENTEENTH INSTANTEX-107

ENTERED CADILLAC AND DROVE OUT TO DESERT STOPPING AT GREEN GABLES RANCH

5 JUN 22 1961

WHERE MC GUIRE REMAINED. UNKNOWN DROVE CADILLAC BACK TO LAS VEGAS AND

LEFT IT ON STARDUST MOTEL PARKING LOT IN IMMEDIATE CARE OF PARKINGN

•OT ATTRADENTS• DRIVER OF CADILLAC ENTERED STARDUST CASINO. IMPOSSTBLE

TO OBTAIN VIEW OF THIS UNKNOWN MAÑ. LV TEN C REPORTS PHYLLIS MC GUIRE

BAUE 2A5 GAEL TO CHICAGO AFTERNOON FIFTEENTH INSTANT RELIVER FAKINGY

Hote).

DocId: 32300080 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released inter the John F. Kennedy Astassination Records Collection At of 1992 714 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017.

PAGE TWO

USUAL PATTERN OF CALLS TO SUBJECT AND HAS NOT ATTEMPTED TO CALL HIM

SINCE. LV TEN C STATES PHYLLIS MC GUIRE HAD QUOTE DO NOT DISTURB UNQUOTE:

ORDER LEFT AT HOTEL SWITCHBOARD FROM TWO A. M. TO FOUR P. M. INSTANT.

LV PRESENTLY OBTAINING ALL BACKGROUND INFO RE GREEN GABLES AND

POSSIBILITY OF COVERAGE, GREEN GABLES. LOCATED IN ISOLATED DESERT

AREA FIVE MILES SOUTHEAST OF LAS VEGAS. FISUR IMPRACTICAL BECAUSE

OF TERRAIN. NEW YORK CONTACT WITH TEETER AND KEEP CHICAGO AND LAS

VEGAS CURRENTLY ADVISED.

END AND ACK

5-45 PM OK FBI WA WC FOR RELAY

L CORR ADD ARMED AND DANGEROUS TO LAST

CG OK FBI CG EAH

TU DISCOV CG OPR CG OPR

10 2'0Eei o2 Themse

902:10-129

ASHUNGG

DocId: 32300080

Page 3

---

