# docid-32291370

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10207-10146

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-81

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1960

PAGES:

320

SUBJECTS :

GAL, BKG, MED/PERS HIST, ACT, ASSOC, AA, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370

331

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

all the bets which he booked.

It is noted that CG 6272-C has

advised that it is ALEX's command

that all bookmakers operating

in the First Ward must lay off all their bets with BRIATTA.

The conversation overheard by the informant showed very definitely

that TORNABENE was to pay off one per cent of what he obtained

in revenue from juke boxes to 100 North LaSalle.

100 North

LaSalle is the headquarters of Alderman JOHN D'ARCO, Alderman

of the First Ward. BRIATTA complained that TORNABENE, in the

Santa Fe Hotel was in the First Ward and that contrary to

instructions, "He would hold the cream and give him the rotten

stuff.

There were certain parts that he didn't wanna hold, he

turns it over to us." FERRARO then called TORNABENE two obscene

names and BRIATTA commented as follows:

"He double crossed me

(obscene)."

FERRARO asked, "How?", and BRIATTA replied, "Because

GUSSIE (ALEX) told him to go over there and if he says one word,

he says wack him right in the mouth.

I went over there and he

didn't yap at all.

That's why I went over there and I caught

him.

said what: the (obscene) you guys doing. Where's the

business.

So one afternoon MARCI (PAT MARCI, Secretary to

Alderman JOHN D'ARCO) and I as they opened the door we got into

the place.

There were two fellows making $50.00 and $100.00 bets

and I says, 'What the (obscene) are ya doin'.' He says oh I just

started this.". FERRARO then said, "You want to knock him out of

we're gonna take. action if we catch him holding out

anymore.

CG 6343-C* then advised that following this conversation

BRIATTA apparently handed to FERRARO $23, 650.00.

Of this amount

$13,000.00 was returned to BRIATTA and BRIATTA was instructed to

"Take this to John D'Arco". BRIATTA asked,

"Take it to the office

or home?" FERRARO replied, "Wherever he's at.

$1,600.00.

Oh,

here's the extra."

BRIATTA then asked, "Should I give it to

John or Pat? If Johnny is not there give it to Pat and say to

Pat give this to Johnny." FERRARO replied, "Sure". BRIATTA then

said, "Okay, I'll go over there now."

Following this conversation BRIATTA stated, "This

morning, I had a guy from Phelan's Office (Captain KYRAN PHELAN,

Deputy

Chief of the Uniform Police, Chicago Police Department)

over to the house.

Eddie. Well I

got this

guy now from the

COVER PAGE

90J-10148

HH

45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

It would also appear from the conversation that

ALEX

and FERRARO have some jurisdiction over TORNBENE and

ARGER. From CG 6232-C it is known that ALEX and FERRARO

have

sanctioned TORNBENE's and ARGER's activities in the

100p and without their approval ARGER and TORNBENE could

not continue to operate as they do.

This information has

been reported in the past.

CG 6343-C* reported on January 18, 1960, that on

that date sAM GIANCANA and MURRAY HUMPHREYs, Chicago top

hoodlums, had a conversation. HUMPHREYS made the following

comment:

"You know, the older I get, the better I get.

You guys

better not put me on the (obscene)

farm."

GIANCANA laughed at that remark.

HUMPHREYS continued:

"What with GUSSIE saying that they're gonna put

him on the. (obscene) farm, you better keep me

• around."

HUMPHREYS reference to GUSSIE is obviously to GUSSIE

ALEX and it would appear that in view of ALEX's deteriorating

health, ALEX is considering retiring from the Chicago crime

syndicate, at least to some extent.

On the same date, HUMPHREYS had a conversation with

FRANK FERRARO concerning MIKE BROEKIN, well known Chicago

criminal lawyer with offices at 188. West Randolph. In this

regard, FERRARO made the following comment:

"That money hungry MIKE. GUSSIE is the guy who

controls him on the price."

Later on this same date BRODKIN had a conversation

with FERRARO and HUMPHREYS.

HUMPHREYS and FERRARO were angry

with BRODKIN in view of the fact that they felt that he was

charging them too much money for a particular situation which

-P-

COVER PAGE

SON-TOINE

HH 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

WER: 1ac

The reference to STEVE by ALEX midway in the

conversation is probably a reference to STEVE DE KOSTA.

It is noted that DE KOSTA is ostensibly the owner and

manager of the Huckster's Restaurant in Chicago.

According to PCI TURA SATANA, a burlesque dancer, who

is intimately friendly with HENRY SUSK

and also well

acquainted with GUS ALEX, the Huckster's is operated

by DE KOSTA for SUSK and

ALEX,

who are the actual owners.

The reference to CLAIR is apparently a reference to the

owner of three Chicago hotels, the St. Clair, the Croydon,

and the Eastgate, all of which are located on the near

North Side of Chicago. From information furnished by

CG 6343-C* in the past, it is known that CLAIR is very

closely associated with MURRAY HUMPHREYS and other Chicago

hoodlums.

On July 12, 1960, CG 6343-C* furnished the

following information regarding a conversation between

JIMMY CELANO, MURRAY HUMPHREYS, and GUS ALEX, in which

they discussed surveillances and investigations conducted

on themselves by various agencies:

CELANO:

"I have guys come in, buy a couple suits.

They know aboutme.

They tap my home

phone.

They know my kids go to college.

They

know all about me.

HUMPHREYS:

They investigate. They did the same

They start out since you

were a kid.

thing to me. All your family. They even

know whether my wife went to urinate.

Divorce too, Gus and her.

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

So what, I haven't done anything.

In 1958 they started. The comings and

goings.

Gussie and Frankie.

Ross Prio

(obscene) them. They followed me.

CELANO:

HUMPHREYS:

They followed me.

Did they?

- Ul -

COVER PAGE

s0J-01no

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

WER: lac

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

ALEX:

HUMPHREYS:

0...00..........

.. . . . ...

And you weren't touching LEO's money at

all?

No, we.... LEFTY's money, 25% of LEFTY'S

money.

You want me to prove it?

Your word is good enough.

OK...

ALEX:

.....LEFTY died. ........

HUMPHREYS:

•... LEFTY didn't have any money and he

to loan him $30,000?

The reference made to BRAD EBEN relates to A, BRADLEY

EBEN,

an attorney at 134 South La Salle, who represented

Premium Beer Sales, Incorporated, during the fight with

of this office. It should further be noted that EBEN

authorized the records of Premium Beer Sales, Incorporated,

be made available to the FBI.

The reference to "LENNIE" probably pertains to

LENNIE PATRICK, an associate of the Chicago Crime Syndicate

who handles the gambling element in the Rogers Park area

in Chicago.

"DAVEY"' is probably DAVE YARRAS, a lieutenant

fOr LENNIE PATRICK, who reportedly spends most of his time

in Miami.

The reference to "LEO" is believed to be LEO

SCHAFER, a bookie who was arrested in Terre Haute, Indiana,

in connection with the operation of a multi-million dollar

sport's service. SCHAFER was convicted on a tax charge in

connection with

the above in June, 1959, and his case is

on appeal.

CG 6272-C has advised that LEO SCHAFER and LEFTY

SCLAR were boyhood friends and were partners in a gambling

LEFTY died about two years

ago and his wife allegedly died a short time before his

death.

It is believed that the reference to LEFTYmade by

ALEX and HUMPHREYS concerns the same individual identified

by CG 6272-C.

- P2 -

COVER PAGE

ser-torne

NH 45679 DooId: 32291370

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

CG T-1

Local Draft Board #80

Selective Service System

2319 South Wentworth Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

CG T-2

NELS NIELSEN

Postal Carrier

assigned

to Evergreen Park, Illinois,

Post Office

CG T-3

JOE KRUCZEK

Postal Carrier assigned to

Lake View Postal Substation,

Irving Park Road and Southport

Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

CG T-4

CG 5733-C

Date Received

4/14/44, as reviewed by

SA WILLIAM M. KELLY.

3/4/58 and 3/28/58 to

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

This postal carrier has

served ALEX's mailing

address.

3/4/58 to SA ROEMER.

This postal carrier serves

ALEX's residence at 4300

North Marine Drive.

In 1950 to an unknown

Agent. This informant

is not personally acquainted

with ALEX or his associates

and obtained this information

through contact with small-

time hoodlums.

In 1946 to unknown Agents.

CG T-5

Inspectors L. B. MC NALLY

and R. E. SHALLBERG,

Alcobol Tax Unit,

Chicago, Illinois

CG T-6

Internal Revenue Service

Washington, D. C.

Information furnished

through liaison at Seat of

Government as set out in

Bureau letter to Chicago

dated 5/12/59.

- U3 -

COVER PAGE

501-10148

HH 45679 DocId: 32291370

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

doctor" contact was made by SA CARLSON on 9/26/60 with

RAYMOND SCHROEDER, Assistant Security Officer at the Mayo

Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.

It is noted

• that information

has previously been developed that ALEX was a patient at the

clinic on two occasions during the past year.

Mr. SCHROEDER

advised, however, that ALEX was not registered at the clinic.

RUSSELL LANG, Manager of the Kabler Hotel, advised that ALEX

was not registered at the hotel on that date, it being noted

that ALEX stayed at the Kahler Hotel during the occasions of

his visits to the Mayo Clinic.

PCI TURA SATANA advised SA ROEMER on 9/29/60 that she

recently went boating with GUSSIE ALEX, LOUIE ARGER, BUTCH

LADON, JOE PIGNATELLO, and with another girl whom she knew

only as GEORGIA, who appeared to be a good friend of ALEX. It

is noted that ARGER iS a subordinate of ALEX who operates

several arcades and amusement parlors in the Southern portion

of the Loop in Chicago. LADON is ALEX' chauffeur and body

guard. PIGNATELLO is a chauffeur, body guard, and cook for

SAM "Mooney" GIANCANA, Chicago top hoodlum. GEORGIA's identity

is unknown except that information has been developed in the

past that ALEX has a girl friend named GEORGIA.

PCI advised

that the boat excursion was taken by the group

in one of the

boats owned by ARGER which he keeps in Burnham Harbor in

Chicago.

It is noted that PCI SATANA left the Chicago area

shortly after the contact with her on 9/29/60 and at the present

time is touring the burlesque circuit in Las Vegas, Honolulu,

Los Angeles, and other cities in the Western portion of the

United States. For this reason, she has furnished no information

concerning ALEX since that time.

/JFK Act 6 (4)

PCI

advised SASRALPH R. HILL and

ROEMER on 10/25/60 that she has obtained information that GUS

ALEX is the financial interest behind a series of pancake

stores called "Eddie Doucette's Pancake Plantations."

It is

the Chicago area.

cashier at Mike Fish's Restaurant in the Sovereign Hotel at

6200 North Kenmore in Chicago.

She advised that many Chicago

hoodlums frequently have met at Fish's Restaurant in a private

dining room located in the rear of the restaurant.

She stated

that these hoodlums included ALEX, MURRAY HUMPHREYS, EDDIE

VOGEL, and others such as ROCCO DE STAFANO, PAUL DORFMAN,

MANNY SKAR, JOE FUSCO, and PAT MANNO.

- M7 -

COVER PAGE

JAMAINA

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

CG 5973-C advised SA C. LEONARD TREVIRANUS on 4/4/60

that GUS ALEX and SIDNEY KORSHAK

in public places. He identified KORSHAK as being a millionaire

attorney with homes in Chicago and Los Angeles, California,

and with offices in Chicago and Los Angeles. It is noted that

identitied KoRs A quenbeine iiformaire

SIDNEY KORSHAK has been interviewed on three or four occasions

by SA ROEMER and has admitted his association with ALEX.

KORSHAK is presently under investigation as a top hoodlum of

the Los Angeles Office.

CG 5973-C advised SA TREVIRANUS on 10/26/60 that

ALEX and KORSHAK continue to be seen together in public as of

that time.

This informant also advised that ALEX has a

considerable financial interest in an automobile agency or

agencies operated by HENRY SUSK.

It is noted that HENRY SUSK

is a prominent Pontiac dealer in Chicago and that he operates

Henry Susk Pontiac, 1510 N. Clark St., and Peter Epsteen

Pontiac in Skokie,

Illinois. As noted above, PCI TURA

SATANA has advised that SUSK and ALEX are close associates.

CG 5973-C advised on 11/14/60 that GUS ALEX recently

became quite friendly with a prominent New York model, named

SONNY ANDERSON.

It is noted that information has previously

been developed

that ALEX spent last winter in the New York -

New Jersey area recuperating from a nervous ailment. This

informant advised that recently ALEX contacted his wife, MARIANNE

ALEX, from New York and has otherwise conducted himself

indicating to MARIANNE ALEX that he and SONNY ANDERSON are

intimate friends.

Informant stated that MARIANNE ALEX is

very angry with her husband concerning this situation and that

the situation is aggravated due to the fact that SONNY

ANDERSON has been one of MARIANNE ALEX'S closest friends.

It is noted that MARIANNE ALEX is one of Chicago's most

prominent models and that SONNY ANDERSON was a close associate

of hers while in Chicago.

JFK Act 6 (4)

PCI

advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA on

11/16/60 that

he had recently learned that LOUIE TORNABENE

is in serious trouble with the hoodlums in Chicago. He advised

that TORNABENE has been running a horse book in the vicinity

of the Santa fe Hotel, Polk and State Streets, Chicago, for

some time and has withheld approximately $75,000 from the

underworld by not posting all his bets on his books. PCI

stated that he has learned that GUS ALEX, who is in charge

of the district where TORNABENE ran his handbook for the

underworld, will take action in the future after some of this

- N7 -

COVER PAGE

501010148

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

money has been collected and that the word among hoodlums

is that TORNABENE will eventually be disposed of. It is noted

that information has previously been developed concerning

a simila

r situation involving TORNABENE through PCIL

who advised that TORNABENE was in trouble with

ALEX in the early Winter of 1958-59.

JEK Act 6

was contacted on 12/15/60.

the

partner of MARIANNE RYAN ALEX,

Oak Street in Chicago and is also the partner of MARIANNE RYAN

ALEX in another business concern involving modeling.

has been contacted frequently in the past by SA ROEMER

concerning the marital relationship between GUS and MARIANNE

ALEX and concerning his knowledge of the activities and travel

of ALEX. JOHNSON advised SA ROEMER on 12/15/60 that on

12/14/60 MARIANNE ALEX decided to divorce GUS ALEX. He

stated that MARIANNE has been very unhappy with her relationship

with Alux for the past year or so and that finally on 12/14/60

she made a firm decision to divorce ALEX, JOHNSON stated,

however, that he has advised her note to leave ALEX at the

present

time due to the possibility that ALEX could then obtain

the divorce on grounds of desertion and that MARIANNE ALEX

and GUS ALEX will continue to reside at Apartment 1001, Marine

Drive, in Chicago but that they will live in separate rooms

in that apartment. JOHNSON stated that the reason for MARIANNE'S

decision is that she has finally become fed up with ALEX's

way of life as a hoodlum and that she can no longer stand her

existence as the wife of a syndicate hoodlum.

JOHNSON advised that he has been acting as MARIANNE

ALEX's attorney in connection with her business affairsbut

that he is not a divorce attorney and does not expect that he

influence her decision as to her choice of an attorney.

JOHNSON stated that he expects that GUS ALEX will choose

EUGENE BERNSTEIN as his attorney in this regard, it being

noted

that BERNSTEIN has handled ALEX's tax returns for

many years.

JOHNSON advised that he is agreeable to approaching.

MARIANNE ALEX in order to sound her out concerning the

possibility of an interview with SA ROEMER.

He stated

that he

will talk to MARIANNE and explain to her that it would

appear to him to be the better course of action to explain

her relationship with ALEX and her knowledge of ALEX's

activities rather than to have the FBI investigate by talking

to other friends and.

associates of MARIANNE concerning ALEX.

- 07 -

COVER PAGE

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 9

(4)

---

## Page 10

JEK Act 6 (2)

JEK Act 6

(4)

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-7

President, Blatz Brewing Company,

MIlwaukee, Wisconsin

(Upon Request)

CG T-8

Chairman

of the Board,

Blatz Brewing

Company, (Upon

• Request)

CG T-9

Vice-President

and Sales Manager, Foxhead

Brewing Company, Waukesha,

Wisconsin, (formerly in

charge of

Blatz Brewing Company

Distributorship in the Loop

area of Chicago)

(Upon Request)

CG T-10

ERIC EDSTRAND, Manager

and Distributor, Blatz Brewing

Company, Chicago Division,

401 North Hamlin, Chicago,

Illinois, (Upon Request)

CG T-11

Whitehall Club,

Owner-Manager,

(Upon Request)

CG T-12

CG 6272-C

Date Received

On 6/30/58 to Agents of

the Milwaukee Office®

On 6/30/58 to Agents of

the Milwaukee Office®

Information furnished on

7/8/58 to Agents of the

Milwaukee Office.

On

• 7/29/58 to SA ROEMER.

On 10/28/58 to SAS PAUL

B. FRANKFURT and ROEMER.

On 7/1/60, 6/13/59, 11/20/58,

9/1/60, and 12/11/59 to

SA ROEMER.

_ V3 -

COVER PAGE

50J-104P

NH 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-13

CG 5973-C

CG T-11

828 West Cuyler Avenue,

Chicago (Upon Request)

CG T-15

Reporter,

"Chicago

Tribune"

(Deemed Advisable)

CG T-16

JOHN PHILLIP CURRAN

Chief Petty Officer,

United States Navy Induction

Center, Chicago, Illinois

CG T-17

Security

Officer, Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota

(Upon Request)

CE T-18

Security

Officer, Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota

(Upon Request)

Date Received

On 3/14/58 to SAs C.

LEONARD TREVIRANUS and

ROEMER; on 8/13/54 to SA

TREVIRANOS •

This informant

is a friend of ALEX's wife.

On 3/5/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source is a former

employer and

a friend of

ALEX's wife.

On 12/18/57 to SA LENARD A.

6/15/59,

ROEMER.

SMITH is a veteran

crime reporter of the "Chicago

Tribune" and is well acquainted

with hoodlums in the Chicago

area.

In 1944 to SA WILLIAM S.

KELLY.

JFK Act 6 (2)

JFK Act 6 (4)

Information furnished to

SA ROBERT I. CARLSON of

the Minneapolis Office on

6/17/59.

On 11/25/59 to SA ROBERT

L. CARLSON of the Minneapolis

Office.

- W3 -

COVER PAGE

HH 45679 DocId: 32291370

Page 11

---

## Page 12

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-19

105 West Adams

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

/JEK Act 6

JFK Act 6

(2)

(4)

CG T-20

NY 2427-C

Date Received

On 8/2/60, 4/22/59, and

12/17/58 to SA ROEMER.

is the husband of

CAROLE JOHNSON, the DusI

less partner of ALEX's wife

He is a

• very close friend

of ALEX's wife and a friend

of ALEX.

On 5/16/60 to SA EDMUND

FLANNAGAN of the New York

Office.

On 8/5/60 to SA ROBERT L.

CARLSON of the Minneapolis

Office; and 11/25/59 to SA

CARLSON.

On 9/17/58 to SA ROEMER.

CG T-21

Manager,

Kahler Hotel

Rochester,

Minnesota, (Upon Request)

CG T-22

Chief

of Security,

Drake Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-23

Nurse,

Cook County Hospital,

1900 West Polk,

Chicago, (Upon Request)

Information furnished to

SAS EUGENE C. GIES and ROEMER

on 3/25/59, 6/4/59.

Miss

is a first cousin of

MARIANNE RYAN ALEX, the wife

Of GUS ALEX, and formerly

frequently associated with

the ALEXS.

- X3 -

COVER PAGE

NH 45679 DooId:32291370

Page 12

---

## Page 13

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-24

HECTOR (TONY) TONTINI,

Maitre d', Whitehall

Club, 105

East Delaware,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-25

CG 6232-C

JFK Act 6

(2)

JEK Act 6

(4)

CG T-26

Clerk,

Illinois Bell Telephone Company,

Chicago, Illinois

(Upon Request)

Date Received

On 10/20/58 and 7/20/59

to SA ROEMER.

TONTINI

is the maitre d' at the

Whitehall Club where ALEX

and several other Chicago

top hoodlums hold membership.

On 8/7/58, 9/24/58, 10/14/58,

and 11/20/58 to SAs WILLIAM

A. MEINCKE and JOSEPH G.

SHEA.

This informant is

a former bookmaker in

Chicago who operated in the

First Ward of Chicago, which

District is controlledfor

the Chicago Crime Syndicate

by ALEX.

Informant is,

therefore, personally

acquainted with ALEX.

On 1/3/60, 4/8/58, 1/30/58,

and 6/19/58 to IC JOHN E.

WHALEN.

- 73-

COVER PAGE

FOJ-101AP

HH 45679

DooId: 32291370

Page 13

---

## Page 14

%..

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG .T-27

CG 6132-C

JFK Act 6

(2)

JEK Act 6 (4)

Date Received

On 1/3/58 to SA WILLIAM J.

MC CORMICK.

This informant

is a jewel fence in Chicago

but is not closely associated

or acquainted with ALEX.

On 5/5/59 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER.

Informant is not

acquainted with ALEX but

is acquainted with his close

associate FRANK FERRARO.

CG T-28

Southern Shores Yacht

Club, Inner Harborn,

Jackson Park, Chicago,

Illinois

(upon request)

CG T-29

Manager, Drake Travel

Service,

919 North

Michigan, Chicago,

Illinois

(upon reqi est)

CG T-30

Former PCI

RAY LONGTREE

On 4/28/59 to SA WILLIAM F. .

ROEMER.

acquainted with ALEX and

has arranged several European

and other trips for ALEX and

his wife in the past several

years.

On 9/11/58 and 10/7/58 to

SA WILLIAM E. ROEMER. LONGTREE

formerly was

an employee in

the apartment building where

ALEX resides and was in a

position to furnish information

concerning ALEX's comings and

goings from his apartment and

the identity of his visitors

and

associates.

- Z3 -

COVER PAGE

SeJ-10rP

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370

Page 14

---

## Page 15

/JEK Act 6 (2)

JEK Act 6

(4)

CG 92-373

Identity of Source

CG T-31

Receiving clerk,

4200 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

CG T-32

CG 6241-C

CG T-33

Chicago,

Illinois

(Deemed.

Advisable)

CG T-34

Romer PaI

Date Received

On 5/22/59 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER.

is the

receiving, clerk on the

apartment building where

MURRAY HUMPHREYS, Chicago

top hoodlum, resides. . He

knoWS ALEX has been a

visitor

to HUMPHREYS' apartment.

On 3/23/59

and 8/14/59 to

SA JOHN B. HARRINGTON.

This

informant

was a car hiker at

Fritzel's Restaurant in Chicago

and therefore was in a position

to know of deliveries of food

to ALEX during period he hid

out.

On 5/27/59 to SA EDWARD J.

NEAFSEY®

is the

wife of sA neArsey

and is a professional model

in Chicago and therefore

obtains knowledge from time

to time concerning the

activities of MARIANNE RYAN

ALEX, who is married to the

subject and who is also a

professional model.

This PCI was contacted on a

regular basis three or four

times a week from 3/25/58

until 11/58.

He was an

elavator at ALEX's residence

and was able to provide con-

siderable information concerning

ALEX's comings and goings,

visitors and associates.

- A4 -

COVER PAGE

SANTOINE

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370

Page 15

---

## Page 16

CG 92-373

Identity of Source.

CG T-36

Former PCI

CG T-- 37

Former Bookkeeper,

larry Hill Apartments,

4300 North Marine Drive,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

JFK Act 6 (2)

JEK Act 6 (4)

Date Received

On 6/2/58 to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER.

This individual

vs a former elavator operator

on the night shift at ALEX'S

residence and was able to

furnish information concerning

ALEX's comings and goings and

his

associates and

visitors.

In 3/50 to unknown Agents

Chicago Office and 5/19/58

to SAs PAUL B. FRANKFURT and

WILLIAM F. ROEMER.

is a former bookkeeper at the

Murry Hill Apartmentv where

she knew ALEX and Chicago top

hoodlum EDDY VOGEL who

formerly resided there.

On 2/10/59 to SA JACK S. NEWELL

of Butte Office:

CG T-38

PCI

Head Telephone Operator,

Sun Valley Operations,

Sun Valley, Idaho

CG T-39

CSLA 4178-C

On 10/22/59 to SE JAMES L.

MAHN of

the LostAngeles Office.

- B4 -

COVER PAGE

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370

Page 16

---

## Page 17

CG 92-373

WFR/amf

Identity of Source

CG T-40

CG 6521-S

Date Received

1/16/58, 3/31/58 and 6/5/58 to

SA ROBERT L. BAKER.

This

'informant is familiar with

activities of lesser known

hoodlums in Chicago.

CG T-41

Deputy

Superintendent

NA, Bureau of Inspec-

tional

Services, Chicago

Police Department (upon

request)

CG T-42

PCI

Information supplied by blind

memorandum to this office byl

on 7/21/55. Deputy Superintendent

_ is a veteran police officer

in Chicago who is well acquainted

with hoodhm activities.

7/28/58, 9/26/58, 10/20/58 and

3/31/59

to SA ROBERT W. HEDDEN.

7/25/60 to SA ROEMER.

This PCI

is a burlesque dancer who is a

girlfriend of HENRY SUSK, who is

well acquainted with ALEX, who

1s a frequent companion of SUSK.

CG T-43

845

West Lawrence Avenue,

Chicago, Illinois

(upon request)

JFK Act 6

(2)

JEK Act 6

(4)

5/19/58 to SAS PAUL B. FRANKFURT and

ROEMER.

6/10/58 to SAs FRANKFURT

and HOWARD A. CARLSON. Miss

during 1958, was a part-tie

nurse

for the daugler of EDDIE VOGEL,

hoodlum associate of ALEX, and

was able to furnish information

concerning ALEX's visits to

VOGEL's apartment.

- C4 -

COVER PAGE

50J-1016e

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370 Page 17

---

## Page 18

CG: 92-373

WFR/amf

Identity of. Source

• CG T-44

Former PCI

Date Received

5/1/58 to SA FRANKFURT.

This

PCI was formerly a lieutenant

Of EDDIE VOGEL, an associate

of ALEX. He is presently incar-

cerated in the Illinois

State

Penitentiary.

CG T-45

Midlothian Country Club,

Midlothian, Illinois

(upon request)

JEK Act 6 (2)

JEK Act 6 (4)

CG T-46

Former CG 5809-C

5/8/46, 5/12/46, 6/7/46, 7/16/46,

8/30/46 and 9/30/46 to SAs DELBERT

L. WOOD and RALPH J. O'CONNOR.

This source was formerly a book-

maker in the Loop area of Chicago

and an associate of many people.

on the fringe of the Syndicate

in Chicago.

He is no longer active

in the bookmaking business:

3/15/56 to SA FRANCIS J. STEFANAK.

This source was familiar with

hoodlum activities in the Chicago

area but is not believed to have

known ALEX personally.

He is no

longer an informant of this office.

CG T-47

presently assigned to the

North Side. Detective Bureau

of the Chicago Police Depart-

ment (deemed advisable)

3/24/58 to SAS WILLIAM A. MEINCKE and

LENARD A. WOLF.

This source was a

detective in the Chicago Policê

Department for many years and knows

ALEX well by sight and reputation

- D4 -

COVER PAGE

Jot-late

HH 45679

DooId:32291370 Page 18

---

## Page 19

CG 92-373

WFR/amf

Identity of Source

CG T-48

Former PCI

Date Received

CG T-49

CG 6171-C

JEK Act 6 (2)

JFK Act 6 (4)

2/1/56 to SA WALTER E. PETERS.

This former PCI was well acquain-

ted with some Chicago top hoodlums

but is not believed to be acquainted

with ALEX personally.

3/13/58 to SA WOLF. This source

is an associate of certain

subordinates of ALEX.

CG T-50

Chicago Police Department,

Robbery Detail (deemed

advisable)

3/12/58 to SA WOLF. This source

has been an officer of the Chicago

Police Department for many years

and is well acquainted with

hoodlums in the Chicago area.

CG T-51

PCI

12/6/57 to SA JAMES P. BRODERICK

and 1/19/58 to SA JOSEPH G. SHEA.

PCl is acquainted with lesser

Chicago hoodlums but not with

ALEX.

- E4 -

COVER PAGE

300.10100

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370

Page 19

---

## Page 20

CG 92-373

WFR: plb

Identity of Source

CG T 52

CG

5951-C

JEK Act 6

(2)

JEK Act 6 (4)

CG

• T-53_

PCI

CG T-54

CG 6218-C

CG T-55

Immigration and Naturalization

Files as furnished by INS Investi-

gator JOHN J. BURKE

Date Received

12/27/57 to SA ROBERT J.

DENEEN.

This source

does not know ALEX,

but is acquainted with

several lesser hoodlums

in Chicago.

2/26/58 to SA HAROLD D. SELL.

This source is not acquainted

with ALEX but knows several

lesser hoodlums in the

Chicago area.

3/19/58 to SA VINCENT I..

INSERRA.

During the period

when informant furnished

the information concerning

ALEX he was employed in a

handbook operated in ALEX'S

district in the first

Ward of

Chicago.

He was

not acquainted with ALEX

but was acquainted with

several of ALEX's sub-

ordinates.

12/16/57 to Investigative

Clerk FRANCIS G. KAHL

-

F4

COVER PAGE

50219148

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 20

---

## Page 21

CG 92-373

WER: plb

Identity of Source

CG T-56

Sergeant

Former Chief of Police, now

Sergeant, Evergreen Park,

Illinois Police Department

(upon reguest)

CG T-57

/JFK Act 6 (2)

JFK Act 6 (4)

CG T-58

Manager,

Club Continental, 500 North

Rush Street, Chicago

(upon request)

Date Received

3/5/58

4/15/58

5/30/58 to SA ROEMER.

This source grew up near

ALEX on the near south

side of Chicago and now

resides two blocks from

the residence of ALEX's

mother in Evergreen Park,

Illinois. He knows ALEX

well, converses with him

from time to time and

knows other associates of

ALEX.

5/29/58

7/8/59 to SA ROEMER..

'This former

• PCI is a close

associate of MURRAY

HUMPHREYS, Chicago top

hoodlum, and as such became

acquainted with GUS ALEX.

He was closed in December,

1959, when information was

developed indicating that

he furnished information

regarding his contacts with

SA ROEMER tO HUMPHREYS.

9/12/58 to SA WILLIAM A.

MEINCKE.

is the

Manager of a hangout for

the Chicago top hoodlums.

During July, 1960, he was

indicted by a federal Grand

Jury with two Chicago top

boodlums for bribery and

TrIS.

- G4 -

COVER: PAGE

50S-0118

HH 45679

DocId: 32291370 Page 21

---

## Page 22

CG 92-373

WER: plb

Identity of Source

CG. T-59

All Tours and Travel Agency,

11 South LaSalle, Chicago,

Illinois

(Upon Request)

CG T-60

PCI

Head of Accounting Department,

Sun Valley Operations,

Sun Valley, Idaho

JEK Act 6

JEK Act 6

(2)

(4)

Date Received

6/16/58 to SA ROEMER.

formerly was

a travel agent in Chicago

who arranged travel on

occasions for ALEX and his

wife.

2/10/59 to SA JACK S.

NEWEl. of the Butte

Division.

PC1 heads the

Accounting Department of

the Sun Valley Operations

where ALEX has visited on

five occasions.

6/16/58 to SAS ALLEN L.

LAVANGER and ROEMER.

CG T-61

Officer,

American National Bank and

Trust Company, 33 North

LaSalle, Chicago,

(deemed advisablé) Ililnois

COVER PAGE

$ 0j-10140

774 45679

DooId: 32291370

Page

22

---

## Page 23

CG 92 373

azo all operated by LOUIS TOREBINE and his brothers,

and LoUIs AnGEr,

they in turn roport to GUS ALRY, vao

in tura reporte to RICCA and ARCADO:**

On May 22, 1959, CG 7-31 advised SA WILLIAN FO

Rossen,

concorning activitos of WURRAY WUPEES at hie

residonce,

4200 North Marine Drive, Chicago,

Photographe

of CUs and MARIANNE ALKa were ohibited to this informans

and he stated that he belloves that he has soon ALEX and

his wile in the company of HNFIREYS at 4200 North Marine

Dzivo.

SAM. "Gollbar!

The "Chicago Tribune",

in 1te 1esuo ot

January 19, 1950, carrtod an article concernung the

polloy racket in

calcago.

mis artiole stated that

and know as "The

Husde",

and sAM HUNt were

the South Side of Chicago. It is noted that SAH

HUNT 15 now decoased.

member of

on June 6, 1955,

to attond the funoral of "Little

Now Tork"

casion, an at sorts above

ACORSON, 1 KA, Joey

Manager of the lake Shore

Management coupany.

20l-Last Walton Street, advised

on April 25, 1957,

that ALEX mado application foz

rental of an apartment at 1150 Lake Shore Drive.

tho time of his appiication on April 2, 1957, ALEX

JOSEPE JACOBSON, 181 North la

Salle Street, Chicago,

I111n01s; as a

felerence.

Mr,

exhibited to

JEK Act 6 (4)

59

45679

DooId: 32291370 Page 23

---

## Page 24

CG

92373•

Therg 18 to ul exchangon the City of Chiago but 1t id noted

that Hydo Part, HY- 3549, 1s 11sted to IRVING VINS, 5100

bouth Cornel., Chiego, ts sot out above.

In June, 1958, NATHAN "BUTCH" LADON waS Intoryloved

by SAC

Bonus and

RoBERts. At that time ho aduleed ho shares

a x00m at

3100 South Cornoll, Chicago, with IRVING VIVE.

CG T-39, advised that on September 7, 1959, a

colophone call vas nado iron the hone of MARIAN BYAN,

3460

Downing Avenue, Glendale, California to Chicago tolophone

munbes Hyde Ports 3-3544.

It is noted that previous

investigation has dotermined that ALEX wa staying with

his sother is lan, MARIAN RYAN during septenter,

1939.

JALIS

A MAHONEY

The records of

the CCC contain a menorandn

dated Sentenbes 30, 1954,

Suing that GUS ALEX was

that time o notontous South 81de gamblos in Chicago,

a partnor of JALES A. MANOIsY in gambling entor

South Side of Chicago.

1915-1920

co T-25 advised

that ho is an ascociate of Gus

Ater and that in the late fall of 1958 ho had ranson

to

to contact ALlY

in a groat hurry.

He stated that

thorofore he contact. PAT MIRCI who Amediatoly mado

arrangonanto to arrange a mooting placo and tine for the

indorant and for All.

tho infomant stated tht in

consistence with MARCI"s arrangements ALEX and FRANk

FARTARO-thovad up at tho pro arranged neoting place at

tho pro-arranged time in order to conduct the discussion

the informant concerning tambling matters in tho

Fixot Vard. Informont advised that on the occasion o2

this mating ALAX made it vory clons to him that no one

could oporate a handbook or crap cano in the Firet Ward

of tho City of Chicago without tho "Or" of GUS ALEX.

Intormant deceribed PAT MARCI as being a secretary or

Aldernon JORN D'ARCO of the First Hard of the City of Chicago.

15.4

S0Jt1011P

74 45679

DooId:32291370 Page 24

---

## Page 25

CG' 92-373

WEE :plb

Surich, December

23 g

1858

Rome, in 1956

Zurich on January

1963

London on December

22g

1958

Zurich on January

1959

Greece on January 3, 1958

Another stanp indieates that on January 13, 1958,

he was processed by lunigration and Naturalization Bervice

and admitten to this country at betroit, michigan, or

anuary 13, 1950. thore are several other stamps placed

in this passport on the pages marked "Visas" which are

illegible.

Chief InspectOr JOEN PRARCS, Metropolitan Police,

New Scotland Yard, London, England, advised on January 23,

1959, that there was no record of GUS ALEX OF MARIANNE ALEX

in the Central Records O12ice of New Scotland Yard.

There

was a record, however, indicating that GUS and MARIANNI ALEX

leit london Airport on December 28, 1958, for Zurich, Switzer

tand, which indicates these people did visit the United Kingdom.

The Siss Central Police Bureau advised by lotter

dated March 5, 1959, that GUS All appeared at the Hotel

Baur-au-Las, Zurich Switzerland, on Docember 22, 1938, with

a woman alleged to be his wife and loft the following day

for St. Morita, where they remnined at the Palace Hotel until

January

5, 1959,

During thoir stay there, they made no spectal

contacte.

They returned to Zurich, where

they ogain stayed at

the Hotel Baur-au-lac on January 5, 1959, and lot on January 6,

1959, by ats for Vienna, Austria.! The Swiss Polico furnished

coples of the tuo hotel registrations at the Hotel Baur-su-lac,

and It was noted thot GUS ALEX indicatod that his profesaion

was "salesnan".

The following Infermation regarding the subject's

activities in Vienna, Austria,

was furnished under date of

Valen 510500 0 P02co President,

•141

92-3182184

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370

Page 25

---

## Page 26

CG 92-373

GUS ALEX, bora January 4, 1914, la Chicago, American

citizen.

and his wife, MARIANNE RYAN ALl, arrived in Vienna,

Austring

on January 6, 1959, and registered in the Hotel

Imporial

at

carrying United

states passport nunber

800d unt.1

July 12,

permanent address as 9353 South Spaulding Avenue, Evergreen

Park, Illinois, USA. Ills double roon at the hotel had beon

reserved by the Drake Travel Service through the "Cosmos"

Travel Service in Vienna.

Perconnel at the Hotel Imperial were ahown photo.

graphs of GUS and MARIANNE ALEX and were able to roadily

identily these photographs. They, however, could not furniel

any information indicating

any unusual activities on the part

of either GUS or MARIANNE AlI whilo they remined at the

hotel.

The couple appoared to engage in the usual sighi

soelng and shopping activities in Vienna and thoro was no

Information that they had roceived any guests at the hotel.

Both on January 8 and January 9; 1959, CUS ALEX placed

telophone calls to tho lotel "Baux! in Zurich, Switherland.

Gus and MARIANYS ALI departed Vienna On January 9,

1959, for an undiaclosed destination:

CRORGES CLOT Of the Prefecture of Polico, Paris,

trance, advised on lebruary 30, 1959, that Auty and his

vase segistered at the hotel Rita, 253, 15 Place Vendone, Paris,

on January 9, 1950, and departed on January 15, 1959.: They

occupied Roon 110

and used their American pansports for

identification at

the tine of rogistration.

that ALEx was not engaged in any unusual actlvities whilo

in Paris, ond s0 for as could be determined, did not make

any contacts with Paris underworld figures.

142

592-3182-81

45679

DooId: 32291370

Page 26

---

## Page 27

0G 92-373

WER: plb/plf

CG I-19 stated that ALEX planned to go to Canada

ostensibly for fishing during the week of May 7 or 14, 1959,

and that he also gave indications that he was planning a

trip to Winona, Minnesota. The informant stated that he

believes that the ALEXes plan to drive

to canada to visit

SAM ALEX, brother of GUS,

who is residing in Berrien County,

Michigan, near Cassopolis, Michigan, under the name of SAM

TAYLOR.

above, advised that he has learned that

the ALEXes had planned to revisit St. Moritz, Switzerland,

which they visited last December and January, and to take

RITA VOGEL, the 14 year old daughter of top hoodlum EDDY

VOGEL, with them. The informant learned, however,

ANDREA BADRUTT, Owner, Palace Hotel,

st. Moritz,

that due to the inquiry of the swiss Central Police

Switzerland,

concerning ALEX's activities as set out above, he would not

honor the ALEXes reservations at the

Palace Hotel when

they arrived this coming winter.

Rochester, Minnesota

As has been reported above under the caption "Status

of Health"

, information was developed that GUS and MARIANNE

ALEX visited Mayo Clinic and stayed at the Kahler Hotel in

Rochester, Minnesota,

from June 14,

1959, through

i June 18,

1959. They occupied Suite

1066-68.

Cassopolis, Michigan

advised that he knows definitely

that at least on

two occasions during the past summer ALEX

and his wife visited the farm of SAM ALEX, the brother of

GUS ALEX, which is located near Cassopolis, Michigan.

It

is noted that information has been received from CG T-15

Indicating that SAM ALIX is a trigger man for the

Chicago

underworld and

. that he

stays out of the limelight

Chicago by residing in Cassopolis, Michigan,

in

under the

name

Of SAM TAYLOR and comes into Chicago only whenever it 1s

necessary to organize a "hit" for the Chicago hoodlums.

- 149 =

9) -318.

NW 45679 DocId: 32291370 Page 27

---

