# docid-32329283

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90085-10164

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 166-491-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1964

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS:

ALBERT MEADOWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32329283

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 166-84

identity),

was contacted 11/15/63, by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

On 10/31/63, DL-141-C furnished the following to

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING:

Informant advised that AL MEADOWS stopped at Ennis,

Texas, to see informant on 10/30/63. MEADOWS stated he was

en route to Corsicana to collect some money, believed by

informant to be gambling debts.

MEADOWS in his conversation mentioned having been

indicted by the Federal Grand Jury.

He told informant that

the indictment resulted from several events. He described one

of them as follows:

Some fellow,

not identified by MEADOWS, brought

another fellow, also not identified by MEADOWS,

to a crap game.

The fellow brought to the game was said to be okay by the person

thereafter lost his entire winnings. As this "big player" got

behind $5,000.00, MEADOWS would make him give a check and after

the man was finished MEADOWS had several checks from this man

which the man told MEADOWS to hold and that he would be back

the following week to pick up the checks.

The next week this

man returned and gave MEADOWS a cashier's check for $7,000.00

in exchange for the checks being held by MEADOWS. MEADOWS

told informant he thereafter cashed the cashier's check and

split it three or four ways but did not identify with whom

the split was made.

Informant stated MEADOWS mentioned that

another event resulting in his indictment was as follows:

Another man, not further identified by MEADOWS, had

given MEADOWS about $10,000 in checks for gambling and later

came back and gave MEADOWS two $5,000 checks in exchange for the

original checks.

MEADOWS indicated that this man was in the

oil business and was going to Butte, Montana, where he had a

The two $5,000 checks given to MEADOWS turned out to

be bad and during the efforts to collect, this man tried to

get MEADOWS to invest in the oil business or some oil venture.

MEADOWS told informant he sent the two $5,000 checks back to

the man in Butte to invest in some oil stock.

C

Cover Page

DocId: 32329283 Page 2

---

