# docid-32310874

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10308-10088

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-782

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/27/1962

SGI, ASSOC, ARMORY LOUNGE, MEETING PLACE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

336

DocId: 32310874 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the

DÀTE: °91-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DECODED" COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

Evans

Malone WiL

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

Teletype

DEFERRED

6-27-62

10-05 AM

TN

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

262134

SAMUEL MY

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO

DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6533-0 ADVISED INSTANT THAT

GIANCANA MET THIS

MORNING WITH SEVERAL INDIVIDUALS

UNKNOWN TO THE INFORMANT. FURNISHED THE LICENSE NUMBER OF

ONE OF THESE AS 828541, REGISTERED TO MORT EDIDIN OLDSMOBILE,

INC., MAYWOOD, ILLINOIS. INFORMANT STATES SHE CONVERSED

BRIEFLY WITH GIANCANA, WHOM SHE DESCRIBED AS BEING EXTREMELY

WELL DRESSED. STATED SHE COMPLAINED TO GIANCANA CONCERNING

NOISE OCCURING AT NIGHT AT ARMORY LOUNGE, LOCATION OF MEET

DESCRIBED ABOVE. GIANCANA ASSURED INFORMANT HE WOULD SEE

10 IT THAT NOISE WOULD BE ABATED. U.)

REGARDING ARMORY AND GIANCANA'S PRESENCE THEREIN, A

MEETINGS OCCUR IN THE EARLY MORNING HOURS INSTEAD OF LATE

AFTERNOON AS BEFORE. EFFORTS BEING MAINTAINED TO OBTAIN

MEANS OF ACCESS THEREIN FOR REESTABLISHMENT OF CONFIDENTIAL

SOURCE. (U)

E1733

ARMED AND DANGEROUS. (V)

REC 63

92-3171-782

RECEIVED:

1:12 AN E

JUL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED JUN 28 1962

1962REIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4-23-04 BYSeRTECOL

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310874 Page 2

---

