# docid-32286248

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

H525a258

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10024

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1365

-=-

:abe= :27: 4=-22

=÷--6-252

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

- DATE: 03/27/1964

"PAGES:

62

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ALIAS, CORRELATION SUMMARY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792

71

Docid: 32286248

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(continued)

winnings.

Individuals who failed to obey the dictates of the under-

world leaders have been beaten and in some instances,

although never

factually substantiated, killed.

It was reported in 1961 that the

death of Jack Henningan was ordered by Giancana because he had

furnished information to the Cook County States Attorney's Office which

resulted in raids on gambling establishments. J

202,212,216,222-224,

226,227,230

MM-730-PC advised on 1/25/61 that Sam Giancana met John

Formusa (92-3232) in the lobby of the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami

Beach, Fla. V

92-3232-27 p. 8

(23)v

On 2/15/61 Captain Hansel H. Tower, US Naval Air Station,

furnished a copy of a letter received by Admiral

Robert colathwalte, Conmanding Officer of the Pensacola Station which

was signed "Cook USA." According to a pencil notation on the margin,

ONI furnished on 2/20/61 a Photostat of a second letter received by

Admiral Goldthwaite and signed "Cook USA."

This Unknown Subect, Cook,

.U.S. Army (100-434808), wrote

concerning a plague the ce was planning to spread

called Operation

SAW and said Admiral Goldthwaite was one of the officers chosen to

spread the plague.

He stated they had an electronics truck which

would project chemicals plus plague infested insects and flees

that

would cause a terrible lot of deaths in the armed forces and among

civilians also. The writer of these letters stated that approval of

men to man these operations

went all the way back to Chicago to Sam

Giancana and others.

He said the Party paid heavily to Giancana and

the others but that the great Giancana would personally supervise the

right Muggs to carry out the operation.

Some people in Los Angeles,

including children, were to be the first victims and Giancana was to

handle this operation in Los Angeles: 1

(continued on next page)

-15-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(continued)

Above informant advised on 12/19/61 that Giancana, whom

he described as the unquestioned leader of organized crime in the

Chicago area, held a conference with Lederer, gambler from Las Vegas.

They discussed local politics, including the potential candidates for

Giancana was highly displeased

because he believed that the candidates for sheriff could not be

would not play ball with the organization u

92-4999-13 p. 1,3,1

(26/ 57)V

regarding Ben Jaffe's (92-4895) association with Sam Giancana or

other Chicago hoodlums. U

CG-6491-C furnished information on 11/28/61 and 1/10/62

when he stated that Jaffe owned the majority of stock in the Guarantee

Reserve Life Insurance Company of Hammond, Ind. It was noted that

this company once showed a loan in the form of

a mortage

granted for

the construction of the River Road Motel, known later as the Thunderbolt

Motel, in a Chicago suburb, allegedly owned by Giancana. This loan

was believed to be a mere paper loan in order to conceal untaxed money

of Giancana. J

92-4895-13 p. 16,19

(26)V

Bureau memo dated 2/13/62 concerning "Jamaica Gambling

Activities," 162-868, set out the following: As the result of

information developed by highly confidential sources in Las Vegas it

was determined that Nevada gambling personality, John Frank Drew,

The sources indicated

that Drew, who owned

5% of the hoodlum controlled Stardust Hotel in Las Vegas and was

reportedly a front man in Las Vegas for Samuel Giancana and the Chicago

underworld organization, was traveling to Jamaica to develop gambling

casinos in that area. u

162-868-7 p. 1

(39)1

-21-

NW 45792

DocId: 32206248

Page 3

---

## Page 4

The following references

out the activities and close association between

on Frank Bulo, 92-5644' san "Mooney"

1 Eulo and

Giancana, a leader of the Chicago underworld. Eulo, who stated that

he had known Giancana since his boyhood days dating back to the 1920's,

was described as an errand boy for Giancana in the north section of

Cicero, Ill. It was reported

on 2/23/62 that Eulo operated a crap and

game in Cicero for Giancana and the split of the profits was 50

in-law of Giancana.

(protect identity) stated

that Eulo's wife, Rose Eulo, was probably related to Giancana. U

SERIAL NUMBER

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

2 p. 1,7-10

(27/58)4

7 p. 1-4

(27)

. JEK ACt 6 (4)

Sàm De Stefano, 1656 North Sayre, Chicago, advised on

8/24/60 that he was a good friend of Sam Giancana, having grown up

with Giancana on Taylor St. in Chicago. He stated that he had not

been close to Glancana during the past several years but ran into

him from time to time at various wakes and other gatherings. De Stefano

said he called Giancana, "Doc."U

CG-6257-C stated (date not given) that Sammy Louis operated

one of the most vicious

"Juice Rackets" (92-6442) in the City of

Chicago and had been friendly with Giancana for many years. V

CG-6443-C advised on 3/2/61 that during 1961 when Giancana

was in Chicago he frequently visited the Stop Light Lounge located at

the Southeast corner of Roosevelt Road and Cicero Ave. v

On 6/29/61, CG-6443-C advised that the operators of the

Michigan Art Galleries borrowed $50,000 from Giancana through his

representative De Stefano.

The loan was made on "juice" rates at

five per cent per week which meant they had to pay back interest of

$2,500 per week on the $50, 000 loan. J

Above informant advised on 3/19/62 that Rocco Potenza was

then running a large crap game on Milwaukee Ave. near Niles, Il1.

He

operated it for Giancana according to source

who

stated the

game

was

both large and lucrative. U

92-6442-1 P: 13, 16,30, 52, 65

(30/108)1

-22-

NW 45792 DocId: 32206248 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Sergeant Arthur Leonard, Dade County, Florida, Dept. of

Public Safety,

advised (date not given) that a Cadillac

automobile

reportedly used by sam Giancana,

Chicago racket figure,

was observed

James Eichler. V

Eichler advised that he was

• in Miami in the Spring of 1962

but that the name of Giancana was not familiar to him. U

92-3024-58 p. 7,8

(20)V

The "New York Confidential" column by Lee Mortimer, which

that Phyllis McGuire was seen constantly with Sam Gincano.

appeared in the "Hashingtan Post and Times Herald of 4/14/62 centeg

he took all three McGuire sisters nightclubbing in NYC and they were

dripping with furs and diamonds.

talked to them and either didn't know that Gincano was Tony Acardo's

er dian i know

A columnist from another paper

successor or didn't want to talk about it.

94-42546-A "Washington Post and

(714804

Times Herald" 4/14/62

Russo and YK-2?51-er ne met at the Born that sa not garen, Anthony

afternoon and during a conversation Ray stated that he had heard

Mooney was going to live at Palm Beach, Fla.

Ray also told Russo, who

gone to Mooney and asked him,

Palm Beach - would it be all right with you?"

It was noted that Mooney referred to above was Samuel

Giancana. J

92-3096-455 p. 4-6

(37457)4

On 5/15/62, NY-3368-C-TE (137-7461) furnished a list of

members of The Criminal Commission in several large cities. He named

Samuel M. Giancana as a member in Chicago. V

137-7461-12 p. 7

(45)V

-23-

NW 45792

DocId: 32286248

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Norman Glubeck,

Reporter for the "Chicago American" (protect

identity) advised on 5/20/62 that he had interviewed Manny Skar pertaining

to the operation of the Sahara Motel North (92-6140) at Chicago and Skar

stated that he was the sole owner and

operator of that establishment.

Skar denied

that he had ever met Samuel M. Giancana or knew anyone by

that name. U

Giancana

and -Cexevertenetvaty were nevate vested in the Shara torth

mentioned above. V

CG-6443-C advised in May, 1962 that the Sahara Inn North was

an investment of Giancana, William

Daddano and Sam Pattaglia"

CG-6241-C and CG-6443-C have stated that Pattaglia

and Daddano ubre lieutenants in the Giancana hoodlum organization, who

maintained a degree of influence in the western and southwestern

suburbs of Chicago.

Giancana

CG- 6241 also advised on 5/21/62 that Rocco Potenzo was a

lieutenant at chicago. U

92-6740-1 P. 1,3,34,35,63

(38x45)1

*Sometimes spelled Battaglia.

LA-4410-PC advised that in the Spring of 1960 there was

an organization of hoodlums who met at Chicago, headed by Sam Glancana.

whom

source called the "outfit." It included Louie Tom Dragna of Covina,

(fnu) Farrell (phonetic) of Detroit, Phil Alderisio, Al

Frabotta, Irwin Weiner (phonetic), a Chicago bondsman, and a contact

man named Irving Dworett.,

Above informant advised that Dworett was in Los Angeles as

of 6/11/62 and he believed he was there for the purpose of opening up

a cigarette vending machine business in Los Angeles County for the

This would be accomplished by a strong attempt to infiltrate

Pyramid Sales, Inc. and Coast Automatic Vending Corporation.

Source

said he had recently learned that Cole Finder had his business taken

away by the "outfit" earlier this year at Chicago, and he heard that the

"outfit" took control of the cigarette vending business in Pittsburgh,

Pa.

92-5925-18 p. 1,24

(29)V

-24-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248 Page 6

---

## Page 7

On 6/6/62, NM-814-PC stated that when Sam Giancana was in

the Miami Beach area,

he was frequently at the Fontainebleau Hotel.

he pointed out that Glancana appeared to possess "weight" among the

"boys," and was known around the hotel as an admirer of Phyllis

McGuire.

Source had the impression that the "boys" considered it

somewhat of an honor to speak to Giancana. U

MM-730-C advised that on 6/30/62 Giancana was at the above.

hotel with Max Eder (92-4192) and Ben Novack, where they spent

considerable time in Novack's office. Source stated that they left

the hotel about 4:15 p.m. and he understood they went to the airport. y

MM-822-C advised on 7/2/62 he was told that Eder sometimes

used the rooms at the Fontainebleau Hotel that were apparently out

of order or were being painted, absolutely free and he made certain

that others received rooms

under the same conditions including Giancana.

92-4192-24 p. 1,14,18,26

(25) V

CG-6343-C* has advised (date not given) that John D'Arco

and his secretary Pat Marcy were both under the influence of Chicago

hoodlums including Sam Giancana. V

CG-6443-C advised on 7/6/62 that D'Arco was First Ward

Alderman in Chicago.

60-573.9-112 p. 2

(3) 1

Clark County Sheriff, Ralph Lamb, Las Vegas, furnished

information regarding a conversation he had with Sidney Korshak, a

' Chicago attorney, at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas on 7/22/62.

According to Lamb, Lt. Robert Griffin of the Intelligence Unit of

his office wrote a

letter to William J. Duffy, Director of the

Intelligence Division of the Chicago PD, and

made reference to Chicago

hoodlum Samuel M. Giancana and the fact

that the Sheriff's Office

expected Giancana in the Las Vegas area in the near future.

The letter

requested information available regarding Giancana and photographs of

known associates of Giancana in Chicago.

from Duffy which made no reference

to Giancana.

Ashort reply was received

According to

within 15 minutes after Duffy received the letter,

Glancana had a

Photostat of it. and Giancana subsequently showed the Photostat to

told Lamb that he could not trust anyone in the

Chicago PD. J

62-103117-112 p. 1

(43)0

JFK Act 6 (4)

-25-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248 Page 7

---

## Page 8

"JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI

(protect identity) advised on 8/3/62 that

a Chicao hoodlum named Manny Skar operated the Sahara Inn at Chicago

which was believed to have been owned by Chicago hoodlums.

Skar was

known to have been in association with several Chicago hoodlums

including Sam Giancana. U

92-5904=9 p. 4

(29)V

LA-4410-PC advised that he

was approached in about July,

1960 by Irving Dworett who advised him that certain people could

expand his business of vending machines at Chicago for a ten percent

cut of the ownership.

shortly after this there was a meeting held in

the vending machine office with about thirty hoodlums present, which

included Sam Giancana, Louis Tom Dragna of Los Angeles

and Felix

Alderisio (92-3141).

source stated that while he was there, the

hoodlums voted as to whether he would be allowed to operate

his vending

machine business and they all voted to "take him."

After the vote

source said Alderisio punched him around and that he received several

subsequent beatings from this group.

Above informant said

he also

attended a meeting (date not given

held at Giancana's residence in

Melrose Park, Ill. when about sixteen Italians and Sicilians were

present including

Giancana.

Informant was beat up at this meeting.

Dragna mentioned that Mickey Cohen was involved with Coast Vending and

Giancana said that Dragna should walk right over Cohen. U

LA-4410-PC also advised that in 1962 Morris Litberg was

offered a proposition whereby for ten per cent of his company his

vending machine business could be greatly expanded. Shortly after this

he attended a meeting in his vending machine office (address not given)

attended by several Chicago hoodlums including Giancana, Alderisio

and Lou Farrell from Omaha.

• At the conclusion of this meeting, Litberg

was punched around by Alderisio. v

Above source believed in July, 1960 and also in July, 1962

that Dragna had some interest in the operations of Giancana at Chicago.

He was also of the opinion that Alderisio wanted very much to be the

big boss and take over from Giancana. U

CG-6241-C advised that on 8/8/62

a party was held in honor

of Keeley Smith in her room at the Sahara Inn Motel, Chicago.

Participating in this party were Giancana, several other hoodlums, and

numerous prostitutes..u

92-3141-44 p. D,F, G, 5,6

(22 )V

-26-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG-6241-C advised that Keely Smith, night club singer,

was the feature attraction at the Gigi Room of the Sahara Inn North

(92-6140), Chicago, during the two week period ending 8/8/62. About

2:00 p.m.

every day John Matassa picked up Smith in a car and drove

her to an

unknown destination.

Source stated that Matassa was known

as Samuel Giancana's chauffeur and body guard and it was known to

'informant that. Smith was a one time paramour of Giancana. U

Add. info.

92-6140-4 p. B, 1,12

(38)v

Norman Glubock, Reporter for the "Chicago American" news-

paper (protect identity)

furnished information on 5/7/62, 6/6/62 and

8/13/62 which disclosed that Paul Perkins, who operated the O'Hare

Top Cab Co., Inc. (92-6133) • According to source, Perkins was

observed conferring near his office with Romeo Torsiello and Sam

Glancana.

Torsiello was the night manager of the Thunder Bolt Motel

located at 5400 River Road, Chicago, which was operated by Charles

Giancana, brother of Sam.

the White Top enterprise came from Sam Giancana. J

Informant said that the bank rolling for

(date not given) that Torsiello was the owner of the White

Don t Stevens, Village President, Rosemont, Ill top tea

Co. and brother-in-law of Charles Giancana. He also stated that

Jeep Daddano, related to Willy "Potatoes" Daddano, a top ranking

Chicago hoodlum, was supervisor of the taxicab drivers. y

proprietor of the O'Hare Taxi Co. (protect

Identity), advised on

Tony Scherer 8/13/62 that he learned from several other.

individuals subsequent to Perkins' meeting with Giancana above that

Perkins bragged that he was the supervisor for the White Top Cab Co. y

92-6133-2 p. 1-3,8

(45)V

CG-6509-C advised on 8/23/62 that Frank "Sharkey" Eulo had

returned his gambling operations from the area of 49th Ave. and

Roosevelt Road to the Dixie Lounge, 1410 South Cicero Ave., Cicero, Ill.

(continued on next page)

-27-

NW 45792 DocId: 32286248 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(continued)

On 9/28/62, LV-69-C*, advised that Eddie Fisher had been

obtained for the entertainment to open the above club and several

well-known entertainers were to follow him.

Giancana sent a message

one of the stockholders

vegas, or onwards seer or the opening este holders

at Las

CG 6538-C-TE advised on 11/1/62 that the men behind the

Villa Venice, at Chicago were Giancana and Marshall Caifano. U

Add. info.

92-6402-1 p. 1,7-10, 12

(30) V

1962 concerning "Strip Shows" (92-6470) in Chicago.

Aloha Club at 2443 West Madison was owned

a connection with San "looney" Giancana, you Johnnie Marola who had

CG-6443-C furnished information from February, 1961 to

December, 1902 and stated that Butch Loverdi ran the Club 19 which

was a notorious "strip joint" in the Rush Street area of Chicago for

hoodlum interest.

Butch was known to be a front man for "Milwaukee"

Phil Alderisio and Giancana. J

CG-6538-C-TE furnished information from September through

December, 1962 and said the Talk of the Town on North Clark st.,

Chicago,

was operated by Hunk Galiano and that Galiano and Loverdi

were directly connected with Giancana. U

92-6170-1 p. 19,30,33

(30,59)

JEK Act 6 (4)

(protect identity) advised on 12/27/62 that

entertainers Eddie Fisher, Sammy Davis,

Martin had recently appeared at the "New villa Venice"

Frank Sinatra and Dean

(92-6402)

at Chicago. They drew large crowds at the Villa Venice which cut

down considerably on the attendance at the Sahara Inn'to the owners

Manny Skar.

Source said Skar made no mention of this

and operators of the Villa Venice because of the reported connections

of Sam Giancana with the Villa Venice.U

(continued on

next page)

-30-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248

Page 10

---

## Page 11

(continued)

on 1/16/63, Sinatra was at the offices of Essex Productions,

229 Sunset Boulevard, Chicago, and advised that he had no knowledge

of Giancana having anv interest in the Villa Venice and that Glancana

had nothing to do with his appearance at this club nor the appearance

of the other above-named talent.

Sinatra with persons such as Giancana, Sinatra stated that in his

business he met all kinds of people. U

to be the assistant

nad indicated on one occasion that Glancana was the owner of this

club. v

Add. info.

92-6402-2 p. 2-4,6, 12,13

(31)V

CG-6343-C* advised in October, 1960 that James Stavros ran

as Democratic committeeman

of Wheeling Township, Chicago, and after

election, Stavros started "shaking down" the bar owners and evervone

else in Wheeling Township.

He sald that sam Gianciana and othere

decided that John F. Scanlan would talk to Stavros to straighten him

out. U

CG-6576-C* furnished information concerning activities

occuring within the offices of the First Ward Democratic organization

in Chicago. Pat Marcy met with Anthony Tisci, at which time Marcy

Jave a lenathv account of his meeting held on 1/31/63 with Glancana.

The conversation between Marcy and Tisci was set out. J

92-5045-23 p. I,J,3

(26)1

NY-3843-C advised that on 2/10/63 she went to Jilly's

Restaurant,

whom ure hảa met

during the early morning hours and met Sam Giancana

previously at the 500 Club in Atlantic City, NJ.

Informant stated

that in the group with Giancana were Mickey Rabin,

an attorney, Jilly and his wife,

owners of the restaurant,

Add. info.

92-5044-18 p. 2

(26) |

-31-

NW 45792 DocId: 32286248

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Tarquin: Simonelli (92-6816) was known to be in the

occasional company of Sam Giancana and had been used by Giancana on

occasion as an emmissary to other lesser hoodlums in the Chicago

area. V

CG-6512-C-TE advised that he heard Giancana had ordered all

burglars or armed robbers to move out of Cicero, Ill., when a lot of

stolen merchandise had been recovered by States

Attorney's Police in

Cicero. This merchandise was stolen by Guy Mendolia and Giancana was

so angered by the "resulting heat" that only the fact that Mendolia was

his godson prevented Giancana from having Mendolia killed, but he

retaliation. i

indicated that, any further transgressions would bring immediate

Carla Delano (protect identity), former waitress at Maggio's

who frequented this location engaged regularly in card playing. y

on 6/18/63,

Dun and Bradstreet (protect identity) advised

that Simonelli paid visits to the Armory Lounge, 7424 Roosevelt Road,

Forest Park, which was a known meeting place of

Giancana.

92-6816-1 p. 1,8,9,11,12

(3011

CG-6656-PC-TE furnished information on July 1 and 3, 1963

concerning "Interstate Transportation of Stolen Funds from Nevada

Gambling Casinos" (92-6177). Informant advised that Sam Giancana did

not trust any of his subordinates in the affairs of organized crime.

He had considerable financial interests in Las Vegas gambling casinos

and due to. his distrust of his subordinates, Giancana made frequent

trips to Las Vegas where he personally collected the proceeds from the

money which was skimmed off the top of these gambling casinos and

carried it back to Chicago. Source said that on some occasions the

amount of money picked up by Giancana totalled almost a half million

ot 1

dollars. His

rented car to Las Vegas•

practice was to fly to Los Angeles and then drive a

Above source stated that he had learned that Marshall Caifano

could do no wrong in the eyes of Giancana and was one of three "hit

men" considered by Giancana to be the best in the business. y

(continued on next page)

-33-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248

Page 12

---

## Page 13

(continued)

SYNOPSIS

June, 1955 members of the Chicago Crime

syndicate were considering a replacement

for Louis

Campagna, who died on 5/30/55.

position in the crime

syndicate.

On 6/7/55,

Glancana and

other active hoodlums

from Chicago and

NYC,

successor to Campagna.

Left Chicago for Miant to elect the

An article in the "Chicago Tribune"

revealed that Sam (Mooney) Giancana

attended the wake for Anthony (Tough

Tony) Capezio, a top lieutenant in the

crime syndicate, which was held in the

mortuary at 5842 Cermak Road, Cicero,

I11. U

PCI

advised

on

T/29/55 that Sam "Mooney" Giancanna

was a close friend of Chicago Alderman

John D'Arco and Giancanna was supposed

to have put up about $10,000 years ago

through D'Arco to secure

the

promotion

of Louis Caparelli in the Chicago PD.

PCI stated that Caparelli was a close

contact of Giancanna, who was a brother-

in-law of Anthony De Tolve, Illinois

State Representative who was also close

to D'Arco. Additional information in

10/3735, "belo "chicago Daily News"

1012/55

An article entitled

"Mobsters called in

Bomb Quiz" appeared in the "Chicago Daily

News" of 10/3/55 deny" Giancana,

column 1, and

disclosed that Sam

syndicate gambling boss, had been

subpoenaed by the special county grand

jury investigating the wave of

combings in the alicago area, naivat

REFERENCE AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2-75147-9-A "Chicag

(15/54)V

Tribune"

7/9/55

JFK Act 6 (4)

68-75117-9-145 p. 66,87

62-75147-9-A "Chicago Daily

(15/54)V

News" 10/3/55

(continued on next page)

-47-

NW 45792 DocId: 32206248

Page 13

---

## Page 14

The following references in the file captioned "Reactivation

of the Capone Gang" set out information on the activities of Samuel

M. Giancana.

Set out below is a synopsis of information contained in

each reference: U

SYNOPSIS

During the week of 6/21/46 extensive

investigation

was conducted in Chicago

to compile and assemble all information'

relative to the key members of the Capone

Syndicate including Sam Gianciano.

NY letter dated 6/23/46 disclosed that

NYC-91 understood Sam Gianciano was

related to Ferdinand De Luccia who had

been connected with the movie racketeering

gang. De Luccia and Al Capone had been

interested in the Sportsman's Park Race

Track in Illinois.

An individual named

Boccia was apparently a member of the

Capone gang in Chicago and had succeeded

De Luccia as one of the more important

racketeers in Chicago.

James M. Ragen, Sr. was shot on 6/24/46

REFERENCE AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

62-81093-9-49 p. 3

(65) V

62-81093-34-2 p. 3

62-81093-9-224 p. 5

(16) V

by a small truck and he was able to get

good view of the driver and believed

this was the same one who shot him.

Ragen was shown a picture of Sam

Glancana and indicated he was not the

man in the truck.

He said he might

have seen Giancana some place but he

could not recall where

on 6/28/46, the Chicago Office

requested

the criminal report on Sam

Glancana, FBI No. 58437•

A pencil

notation

disclosed that the request

was answered on 7/10/46. U

62-81093-9-84 p. 1

(16) V

(continued on next page)

-49-

NW 45792 DooId: 32206248 Page 14

---

