# docid-32291539

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10207-10315

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4355-152, 153, 154, 155

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HARMON, P. GRANT JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 12/10/1974

' PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, FUG, REL, ASSOC,

WHEREABOUTS, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 3 RPT

Dolta: 32291539

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-26= (Re. 12-19-07)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INY STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

LUIGI GIOVANNI MANOCCHIO, aka -

FUGITIVE

I0 #4336;

ET AL

DATE

2/6/76

REPORT MADE BY

EDWARD M. KAVANAGH

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/15/75 - 1/15/76

ITAR - GAMBLING

008-8-11-64

9-4-75

REFERENCE

Report of SA EDWARD M. KAVANAGH dated 9/4/75 at Boston.

-P-

LEADS

NEW YORK AND NEWARK DIVISIONS (INFORMATION)

Information copies of this report are being designated

for the New York and Newark Divisions in view of the fact that

they ndy have leads in this matter at à latei date.

TYPED BY

gm

CONVIC AUTO.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLÄIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

I NONE

RECOVERIES

APPROVEO

RFB

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

SMADES

Bureau (166-4955)

- USA,

Providence,

R.I.

166-

1

Departmental

Atty.,

Providence,

R.I.

Departmental Atty., Boston, Mass.

- New York

(166-2576) (info)

- Newark

(166-1225)

(info)

2

- Boston

(166-845)

іс Па

Dissemination Re

ord of Atrochod Report

Notations

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING ONES CUTER LTES ENO

OVER SIX MONTHS

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

4355+155

REC-1

ST-I11

8 FEB 17 1976

Agency

Request Recd.

Dale Fwd.

¢C, AAG, Criminat

Bivision Organized Crime

Hon t'wd.

By

Proom -

A Backegan Section.

DA O MAR1 538 1976e 2

ПОУГРОС.

FREE SUP.

GRO: 19690-299-873

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassinatUll Returts toltection Aet of 1992 111 USC 2uCHoteT.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

BOSTON DIVISION

At Providence, R.I.

Will continue contacting relatives of subject

regarding his possible location.

Will maintain contact with logical informants

and sources re subject.

1.

2.

INFORMANTS

On 8/24/75 BS 769-CTE advised LOUIS MANOCCHIO is

still hiding out in New York City and he telephones FRANK

VENDITUOLI from time to time and VENDITUOLI goes to New York

City and visits him.

ime to tone cat

MANOCCHIO is still talking about turning

himself in on the Rhode Island case.

Informant said MANOCCHIO's brother's house was

destroyed in a mysterious explosion in Rhode Island.

On 8/19/75 BS 1274-CTE advised there is bad blood

between subject and his brother, ANDREW MANOCCHIO, inasmuch

as ANDREW has frequently been known to beat up his wife.

Informant has been contacted on a monthly basis

since August, 1975, and has been unable to furnish any pertinent

information regarding subject.

By communication dated 11/12/75 the New York Office

advised that logical informants contacted to date were unable

to furnish any information regarding subject's whereabouts.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

• 817293-(Rev. 1-7-72)

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REFORTINO OFFICE

OFFICE OFORIGIN

BOSTON

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

LUIGI STOVATINI MANOCCHIO, ala-

FUGITIVE,

10 74336

ET AL

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE DERIOD

9/4/75!

4/15/75 - 8/22/33

REPORT MADE BY

EDWARD MI. KAVANAGH

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITAR - GAMBLING

DOP -8-11-69

9-17-15

REFERENCE:

Boston report of SA P. GRANT HARMON, JR.,

dated 4/19/75.

• P

LEADS

An information copy of this report is being

designated for the Newark Division in view of the

fact they may have leads in this matter at a later

date.

da!.

CONVIC.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

APPROV

COPIESM

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

510

•Burkau

• (166-4355)

•1-USA, Providence,

Rhode

• Island

I-Departmental Attorney,

Providence,

Rhode Island

1-Departmental Attorney,

Boston,

Massachusetts

2-New York (156-2576)

I-Newas: (166-12252 (InEg)

A-Roston

2-166-3451

Oissemination Record of Arrached Repárti

Agency

Riguest Rerd.!

Date twd.

How Ewd

Cç, RAG, Criminal

Division Arganized Crime

& pale ana Section;

22йc

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT.

TALS

CASE HAJ BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR [YES CLIVE

PENDING PROJECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DrEs EIN:

DO NOT MRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166-4355-154 REC-37

• SEP & 1975

Notations

BESING

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

i "i

BS 166-845

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

Will contact logical informants and sources

for any positive information re subject residing in the

New York City area.

BOSTON

AT PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND

1) Will continue contacting relatives of

subject regarding his possible iocation.

2) Will maintain contact with logical

informants and sources re subject.

INFORMANTS:

BS 1663-PC has been contacted on a monthly

basis since April

1975 by S& MARTIN P. CONLEY and

informant has advised that he has developed no furthes

positive information regarding the present location

of LOUIS MANOCCHIO.

On 6/6/75, BS 1155-CTE advised SA DENNIS M.

CONDON that LOUIS MANOCCHIO had returned to the Mew

York City area but had no plans to turn himself in.

On 7/13/75, BS 763-CTE advised SA DENNIS M.

CONDON that LUIGI HANOCCHIO is now residirg in lew

York City.

Infonrant stated he is dressing somewhat

like a hippie with long hair ard rearing dingarees.

Subject repoitedly is wailing the streets very freely

and is

now starting to indicate that he nay turn

himself in

WARUCCHIO has also acquired nev

identifica ion since returning to the New York City

area.

B*

COHER PACI

DocId: 32291539

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1903(90, 1:521

FEDERAL JUREAU OF INVE TGATION.

TAR'FICH

"PIGOPRICE

BOSTO!:

BOSTON

PITLE OF CASE

LUICI GIONANT MANOCENTO,

ala • FUGINI!T.

ID NO:: 4336:

ET AL

DATE.

4/18/75

HEPORTIADE EY

P. GRANT W2BN030.22.

CHARACTER OF CASE

Travanenu: 5-e15n

112/21/74 - 3128175

ITAR - CAMBLING

5/5/15

DOP. 811•69

REFERDICE:

Boston

report of SA P. GRANS MACHON, JO., 12/10/74.

- P-

TYpE? "

Information conies are being sent to !!. Y. and Newark

since the subject was

belinved to be residins in one of

those two divisions when he was last in the United States

and it is possible that additional leads might be directed

to those divisions in the future.

"Ho

BOSTON

AT PROVEREICE: 3.

_I.:

will re-intervich

relatives of subicot in the

Providence area concernine his nossible location.

ACCOMPLISHNENTS CLAiNED

NONE

ruG.

FINES

SAYINGS.

RECOVCMIES

ACQUIT.

CASE HAS Prit::

TAL!

PENDISE OVER ONE VENE ES 31S

FENLING FLOSECUTION

OVER.L.ANOI.THS

ITES TING

SPICIAL A SENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (168-4355) 1D+D

USA, Providence,

P.

I.

Dept. Attu., Prov.,

?.

I.

-

Dept.

Attv..

Poston, l'ass

New York: (156-2576) (Into)

Hewark. (166-1225)

‹ Info)

Boston

- 150-945)

12-

• 88-5042)

(2

-

89-5033)

Dinacrrinatior

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166-4355-153

REC-35

EX 104

• APR 24 1975

NAND

Malutions

Di

2. co, MG, Criminal.

Lon, Oreanized Crime.

1 6 6 MAY 06: 1075522

ateering Sochion,

DocIM: 32291579

Page

DATA PROCESSING

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 tote)":

DATE: : 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

Will maintain contact with informant in an

effort to determine the location of the subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

It is pointed out that the most recent

information, which was felt to be reliable, indicated

that MANOCCHTO was probably in France, since he had

been in contact with an informant in that country.

The Bureau has been advised previousiv that the Attorney

General of the State of Phode Island is not earer to

go to trial against MANOCCHIA for Conspiracy to Murder

because the witness

for the state of R. I. is not as

stronp a witness at this time as he was when the other

co-conspirators in this matter were tried and convicted

and the Attornev General rould prefer not to be forced

to extradite MANOCCHIC from a point outside of the U.s.

and would be willing to extradite MANOCCHIO only if he

is located within the Continental u. S.

The Boston

Division is maintaining contact with informants and

will continue to intervier members of the subject's

family in an effort to determine his location.

On 12/21/74, and 3/18/75, BS 2279-PP waS

contacted

concerning the location of the subiect with

negative results.

•.

On 1/27/75, BS 1663 was contacted by SA MARTIN P.

CONLEY and-the informant advised that LOUIS MANOCCHIO

is supposedly living in Italv at present and is afraid

to come back to the U.S. for fear of being murdered.

(It is noted that there have been two gangland

style slavings in the Providence, R. I. area in the

Month of llarch 197.5,

and another rangland slaving

occurred in Cranston, R.

I. in 11/74.)

-B.=

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter

DATE: 11-14-2017

•BS 166-845

On ?/16/75, BS 3242-PCI was contacted concerning

the subject with negative results.

on 2/27/15 and 3/28/75, BS 3261-PC was contactec

and advised that he has not received anv information

which he considers reliable concerning the location of

LUIGI MANOCCHIO.

He advised that he has heard rumors

that MANOCCHIO has been back to the State of R. I. but

he has also heard other rumors that MANOCCHIO has been

killed and will never be heard from again.

This infor-

mant stated that he did not give credence to either of

these theories.

-C*-

COVER _PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Page

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

RLNCHTING OFFICE

BOSTO!:

TITLE OF CASE

BOSTON!

LUICI GIOVANNI MANOCCHTO,

aka • FUGITI!S

ID NC.: 4338:

ET AL

DATE.

4/18/75

HEHORT MADE BY

P. GRANT LARION. JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

'INGESTIGANNE PERIOD

+ 12121474-3128175

ITAP - GAMBLING

!:t

AMAROYES

COPIESMIDE:.

REFERENCE: Boston report of SA P. GRANT MADMON. 72., 12/10/74.

-P-

LIZADS :

Information conies are being sent to !!. Y. and Menark

since the subject was believed

to be residino in one oi

those two divisions wen he was last in the United State:

and it is possible that additional leads night be directed

to those divisions in the future.

BOSTOI

AT PROVIDENCE. 2. A::

Will re-interview relatives of subiect in the

Providence area concernine his possible location.

ACCOMPLISHAENTS CLAIMED

NONE

ACQUI;

Fur.

FINES

CASE HAS PTEN:

SAVINGS

ESCOVEMIES

TAL:

FE:LING THOSECUTION

OVERIIAMONTHS

SPECIAL AGERT

IN CHAHGE

DO NOT KRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau (106-4355)

-

USA, Providence, P. I.

- Dept. Atty., Prov., 2.

1

I.

- Dept. Attv., Boston, l'ass!

New York: (156-2572) (Info)

*evarl: (166-122.5)

(Info)

~ Boston (?

-156-815)

(2-88-501412)

02-89-5038)

Disser-inotion

Recordof apin.

....-

166-4355-153

Nolutioris

licite;

footre 11ars.

:113 - 18011.

Dochel: 32291539

Page :9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 It

DATE: 91-14-2017

BS 166-845

Will maintain contact with informant in an

effort to determine the location of the subject..

ADMINISTRATIVE:

It is pointed out that the most recent

information, which was felt to be reliable, indicated

that MANOCCHIO as probably in France, since he had

been in contact with an informant in that country.

The Bureau has been advised previously that the Attorney

General of the State of Phode Island is not earer to

go to trial against MANOCCHIO for Conspiracy to Murder

because the witness for the State of R. I. is not as

strong a witness at this time as he was when the other

co-conspirators in this matter vere tried and convicted

and the

Attornev General would prefer not to be forced

to extradite MANOCCHIo from a noint outside of the U. s.

and would be willing to extradite MANOCCHIO only if he

is located within the Continental U. S.

The Boston

Division is maintaining contact with informants and

will continue to interview members of the subject's

family ir an effort to determine his location.

On 12/21/74, and 3/18/75, BS 2279-PP was

contacted concerning the location of the subiect with

negative results.

On 1/27/75, BS 1663 was contacted bU-SA MARTIN P.

CONLEY and the informant advised that LOUIS MANOCCHIO

is supposedly living in Italv at present and is afraid.

to come back to the U.S. for fear of being murdered.

(It is noted that there have been two gangland

style slavings in the Providence, R. I. arca in the

Month of liarch 1975, and another

pangland slaving

occurred in Cranston, P. I. in 11/74.)

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291539 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Notey.

-DATE: 91-14-2017

BS 166-845

On 2/16/75, BS 3242-PCI was contacted concerning

the subject with negative results.

On

2/27/75. and 3/28/75, BS 3261-PC was contacted

and advised that he has not received an informatior

which he considers reliable concerning the location of

LUIGI MAMOCCHIO:

He advised that he has heard rumors

that MANOCCHIO has been back: to the State of R. I. but

he has also heard other rumors that MANOCCHIO has been

killed and will never be heard from again.

This infor-

mant stated that he did not give

these

theories.

credence to either of

COVER_PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Page

11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 1M726° (Rev. 1-7-72)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BOSTON

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

TITLE OF CASE

LUIGI GICVANTI

MANOCCHIO,

aka - FUGITIVE LEB

IO NO. 4336:

ET AL

# 0714336

DATE

12/10/74

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

716174 - 12'574

REPORT MADE EY

CHARACTER OF CASE

GRANT LAPYCH JA.

ITAR . GAMBLING

TYPED E

ma.

REFERENCE:

Report of SA P, GRANT HARMON, JR. dateri

7/3/74 at Boston.

(P)

CÖN ViC:

APPROVE

COPIESMA

LEADS

and Newark since the subject was believed to be

Inforration eonies are being sent to terrentaine

in one or those two divisions wile he was in tre U.S.

previously, and it is possible that additional cads

when the subjeet returns to the U.s.

• BOSTON

AT PROVEDENCE, R.I.

Will maintain contact with

relatives of subject

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

• NONE

"FuG:

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

ACOLIT-S CASE MAS BEEM.

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR YES DINO

PENDINO PROSECUTION

OVER 51X MONTHS

EYES DINO

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

Bureau (166-4355) ID+D

USA,

R.I.

Dea menta Attorney;

1

Departmental Attorney

Providence

New. York

(166-2576 (1n10)

Newark

1166-1225) 11n89)

6

Boston

(105-845)

2

3a.

50l2

2.,5720

Dissemination Rocörd of Attached Repört

Notations

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

166-4355-152

RLC-38

5 DEC 12 1974

EX-100

Agency

Request Recd.

Date f'wd.

...

How Fwd.

secrisn

RoCIY 22100 DEQ-20 1974

Go. 12o, C019100204818100)

fine 3 Racketeering

224

---

## Page 13

Gased inder the John F./ Rennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Witey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

MANOCCHIO in the Providence area for information concerning

his possible whereabouts.

Will maintain contact with sources concerning

location of subject:

ADMINISTRATIVE

The lengthy investigative period is noted, however

the case has been

kept in a pending status through

frequent contact with sources concerning location of

the subject.

As the Bureau is aware, most recent substantial

information concerning the location of subject MANOCCHIO

indicated that he was probably in France.

The Bureau

is

also aware of the fact that the Attorney General of the

State of Rhode Island is not eager to go to trial on the

subject MANOCCHIO for conspiracy to murder because the

witness for the State of Rhode Island is not as strong

a witness at this time as he was when the other co-con-

spirators were tried and convicted and the Attorney

General would prefer not to have to try subject MANOCCHIO

unless MANOCCHIO is located within the United States.

The Attorney General

of Rhode Island stated that he did

not desire to extradite MANOCCHIO from France.

The Bureau should note that the Boston Division

is continuing to maintain contact with informants and is

continuing to contact members of the subject's family in

an effort to learn the location of the subject MANOCCHIO.

On 8/19/74, BS I663-PC advised that ROBERT

• FAIRBROTHER, FRANK VENDITUOLI, ANTHONY SCIAVONE, ann

RUDOLPH SCIARRA, recently saw LOUIS MANOCCHIO.

On 9/12/74, JERRY DE LUCA (protect identity)

advised that he had heard that. MANOCCHIO had been buried

alive in Houlton, Maine. : DE LUCA advised that he had

heard that MANOCCHIO had been dead for over a year and

that an individual named MEROLLA and an individual named

BIANCO had been responsible for the death. of MANOCCHIO.

- -B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Page

13

---

## Page 14

eleased under the John F.) Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Motey?

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

It is noted that none of the

above. information

• has ever been received from other reliable sources and

is not being considered reliable

lead

information at

this time by the Boston office.

On 9/25/74., BS 1663-PC advised that RUDOLPH

SCIARRA has a young daughter who has become pregnant

by. STEVE VOTTA who is the son of ANN BUCCI who resides

, telephone 331 7088.

The

daughter is about 14 or 15 years old.

MANOCCHIO'S

brother, who is a doctor, is taking care of the pregnant.

SCIARRA girl.

On 11/11 74, BS 1159-PC advisen that recently

RUDOLPH SCIARRA was talking about his problems

with

RICHARD CALLEI,

to JOHN ROSSI and ROSSI intimated to

SCIARRA that if ri wanted to stop CALLEI, he might

have to do something about RAY PATRIARCA, but the infor-

mant heard no further discussion in this regard.

-C*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291539

Paire

14

---

