# docid-32290638

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10414

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-248

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/21/1961

CM, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ENTRY, US, DEPORTATION,

GUATEMALA, INS, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

"CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45855

DocId: 32290638

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Belmositt

FROM :

'C. A. Evans.

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DATE: November 21, 1961

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

7-am/

RC

a New Orleans informant,

has advised

he received information which he had been unable to substantiate..

that when Carlos Marcello recently illegally entered the United

States from Guatemala he did so by utilizing a shrimp boat. operated

by one Felix

Golina, Patterson, Louisiana, not further identified.

This is the first Information recerved concerning the method' of entry

into the United States by Marcello.

This matter has been the subject

of intense investigation by Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS) since one of the outstanding indictments against the subject.

charges illegal entry into this country after his deportation to

Guatemala. The above has been disseminated to INS.

Marcello, who is a prime target

for Federal prosecution,

was deported to Guatemala in April, 1961, and reportedly illegally

entered the United States thereafter in the Summer of 1961. He is

currently under indictment and has been released on bond for deportation

charges, illegal entry into the United States after deportation to

Guatemala (both of these are INS cases), perjury and conspiracy to

defraud the United States. 'The latter two indictments are a result

of FBI investigation.

It is interesting to note that Marcello is alleged to have

financial interest in a fleet of shrimp boats openting in the Gulf of

Mexico.

Bureau files do not show previously known contacts between

Felix Golina and Marcello.

They do indicate one Felice Golina,

Patterson,

Louisiana, was allegedly involved in black market activities

during World War II in connection with the shrimp industry in Louisiana

ACTION

developments/congerting this.

New Orleans is being advised

and to remairito be alert for further

informant.

Vт X3

close contact with our

REC ,66/2-3.713-245

66 DEC jEep Attached for approval is a letter to

the Attorney

General.

NOV 2% 1961

TLG: asg osq

(6)

OTHER

4

a-To

HW

45855 DocId: 32290638

Page 2

---

