# docid-32557728

## Page 1

FD-302 (Rev: 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division,

U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E. 1st

Avenue, Room 301, Miami, Florida, advised that a Report

on Vessel Caspalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2632), was completed on August 12, 1968, by

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British

Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

a copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

-at Miami, Florida

- File #_ Miami 45-1168

by

SA MICHAEL E. CRANE:ed

_Date dictated -

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

1. 1

NH 45701

DocId: 32557728 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TREASURY DEPARTHENL

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budget Burosu

No: 48-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL STMBOL

INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitied,

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Harine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Post of MATI

1. NAME UF VESSEL

2.

OFFICIAL NUMBER

CAPTORNEY PERURA

5. TYPE OF

VESSEL (FA pasa., (kr., esc)

305/57

6. PROPULSIÓN(Stoem, diogol, oic)

DATE SUBMITTED

12-8-68

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

3.

HOME PORT

MOOL SATA

GROSS TONNAGE

4. NATIONALITY

DRIRTATI

8. REGISTERED

TENGTH OR L.O.A.

9. HULL RATERTAL -E

12. (a) RADAR EQUIPPED

"ITO. YEAR BUILT

I,58

YES

NO

13. 80) CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

AT PORT OF

ATTALIT

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicato which)

RADIO EOUTPNENT

BE TRANSMIT

FE RECEIVE

(D) 1F

YES. RADAR OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

NO DINE.

(D) DATE OF BIRTH

ZIT = 5-19

CH (Key)

(C) LICENSED BY COAST

GUARD

YES

NO

(D) PILOT

SERVING UNDER

AUTHORITY

OF LICENSE ISSUED 8Y

Vascal alongcide.

USCG

STATE

FOREIGY

16. (0) NAME OF

OWNER(S) , OPERATORTS) OR AGENT (Indicaro which)

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S), OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

Owners

ENCHIGE DUTIETIGS, QUAYSIDE,

sin haran salaria Camarie

C190T

india

I1 PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(6) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME

OF CASUALTY(Local or

(e) ZONE DESCRIPTION

zone)

E-3a58

I315

EsSa

(a) TIME OF DAY

E) DAY ONIGHT

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Lailtudo end lonfitude; diaianco and TRUE boaring from chariod objoci; do chi anchorazu; eic.)

Pier No.3.1TAHI.

19. BODY OF MATER (Goographicalnemo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICASLE

| INLAND

INTERNATIONAL

I OTHER (Specily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN RIVERS

21. (a) DID CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

(b) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

NO

(E) IF YES. WHERE BOUNO MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (e) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

QLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

OTHER (Spocity)

(b) VIS181LITY (Miloo, yde.,11., etc.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

FORCE

IN

KNOTS

(o)

GUSTY

Ligat airs.

I/2

YES

NO

23. (E) SEA

CONDITIONS

WHEN (6) SEA WATER

CASUALTY

OCCURRED

TELP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(@ DIRECTION

OF SEA

(0) HEIGHT

OF

SWELL

(If availabio)

(1) AIR

TEMPERATURE

85

(1) DIRECTION OF SHELL

24. (E) NATURE OF CARGO (Spocily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tona)

(C) AMOUNT OF BUIX LIQUID

(Long tone)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long tong)

Io carso onboard

25. 80) DRAFT FORMARD;

(D) DRAFT AFT

I4'00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NOBE

I4'06"

(D) NO. LIVES SAVED

WITH LIFE-

(e) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

[YES

NO (It no, explain in

1iom 34)

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

(Over)

15

Ny 45701- DocId: 32557728 Page 2

---

## Page 3

27.

CREN

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON BOARD

DEAD/MISSING

20

nil

21l

INCAPACITATED (over 3 days)

nil

OTHER (Specily)

nil

nil

223

29.

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Spacity)

28

ESTIMATED LUSS 'DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS/DAMAGE TO

YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE

TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocity whethos vessel, dock, bridge, elc.)

Give pertinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION/ FARE(Other,

GROUNDING

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridges, elc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING WITYOUT SINKING

FLOODING, SWAMPING. ETC.. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

COLLISION MITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other).

CARGO DAMAGE (No vossol damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel atructura)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel'a fuel)

FIRE (Vosgel"s atructure os equipment)

EXPLOSION (Boller and assoclated parts)

propulsion.

auxillaries,

electrical, etc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY. NOT NAMED ABOVE

evaporators, dock machinery

EXPLOSION (Prossure vossols and compressed fas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred.. Attach diagram and additional

sheets, if necessary)

Bons esplosion in lay of loves nain seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo briel genoral description and atate il vessel is a total loca.)

Forsard mid on Lower Main Seawater Injection Seabox blown off and floos plating

turned into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vessels

hull in that vicinity 55"

x 32", with hull plating turned into vessel. Plating

buoiled with fractures into starboard side of hole. A fractura apper 40" = 5"

to the centze of the hole and about 12" afi of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Roon

machinery etc. rossible.

III ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32.

AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR

VESSEL:

YES

NO

3(0) 15515 AN OPEN ON 1 VESSELS (Includo Coast

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Coast Guard gave tolephone nunber from

London Salvage Co.

were assistonce could be obtained.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo axplanation of unsatlalactory litosaving

equipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

MASTER.

NH 45201

DooId: 72557728

Page 3

Lettin

1 6

GPO 952-157

---

## Page 4

30W(Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miamt Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the size and nature of the hole

In the bottom of the "Caribbean Venture."

HOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a varlety of underwater missions

for the U.S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture*,

wOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

Bole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area were two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

e the mean veror a

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

HOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers of grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, or blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire or some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

8/8/68

On

at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS

JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL P. DOOHER JCF:ed

_Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

47

NW 45701 DooId: 32557728

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 45-1168

2

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

toot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the aid of tanks.

He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced

suokestack on the ship andiver by merely locating the

proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside of the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the

seams

Of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron gotting

disoriented

due

to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

he believes that this hold

was made by " "shape charge".

48

74 45701

DocId: 32557728

Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIC

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E.

Ist

Avenue, Room 301, Miami, Florida, advised that a Report

on Vessel Casbalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

-at Mlami, Florida

__File #

Miami 45-1168

SA

• MICHAEL E. CRANE:ed

Date dictated -

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

11

NW 45701 DooId: 32557728 Page 6

---

## Page 7

TREASURY DEPARTHENT

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Fort Approved Budget Buroau

No.£8-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

•INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall he submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blacks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as "NA"

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However; to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

то :

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of MARI

DATE SUBMITTED

12-3-68

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

NAME UF YESSEL

2.

OFFICIAL NUMBER

3. HOME PORT

4. NATIONALITY

MIRI

5. ТУРЕ OF

VESSEL(/ A.,pata,,tkr., orc)

305/57

INe: SOLE

virt

ARTETCH

6. PROPULSION(Stoan, d/edal, 010)7.

GROSS

TONNAGE

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A.

9. HULL MATERTALS

10. YEAR BUILT

1517.49

1. RADIO EQUIPSEN

ZIT 56519.

12. (2) RADAR EQUIPPED

I858

EZJ TRANSMIT

EX RECEIVE

ERVOICE

] cm (Koy)

(D) IF YES, RADAR

OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

YES

NO

13. (a) CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED AT

PORT OF

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicato which)

10 DINE.

(D) DATE OF

BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST GUARD

T5CO NAME OF PILOT MY SA SONGS TRO OF BEERS.

YES

26xT-32

NO

(D) PILOT SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF

LICENSE

ISSUED

8Y

USCG

vessel alongoide

STATE

FOREIGN

16. (2) NAME OF O#NER(S), OPERATORIS) OR AGENT (Indicaro

which

(D) ADDRESS OF

OWNER(S). OPERATOR(ST. OR AGENT

Ormose

EXCELICE SUITOLEGS, QUAYSIDE,

ananase Shipping Canarys

Il PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17. (6) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(C) ZONE DESCRIPTION

Id TIME OF DAY

8-8-68

I3T5

EET DAY NIGHT

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Lalltudo and longitude; dialanco end TRUE boarina from charied objoci; dock; anchoragu; eic.)

Pier No.3 MABI.

19. BODY OF WATER (Goographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INTERNATIONAL.

INLAYD

OTHER (Spocity)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21. (2) 010 CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

O YES

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

NO

(C)IF YES: WHERE SOUNO MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (2) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

(6) VIS18ILITY(Milos, ydo..l.etc.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

FORCE IN KNOTS

Light airs.

23. (2) SEA CONDITIONS

I/2

WHEN

1 (b) SEA

WATER

TEMP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(a) DIRECTION OF SEA

CASUAL TY

OCCURRED

(11 available)

OTHER (Spocify)

(o) GUSTY

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

YES

NO

85

(0) HEIGHT OF SWELL

(D) DIRECTION OF

SWELL

24. (a) NATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long cone)

(C) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID.

(Long tone)

(a) AHOUNT OF

DECK LOAD

(Long t072)

Ilo cargo onboard

25. (e) ORAFT FORWARD,

(D) DRAFT AFT

IA '00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NOIS

PREVICUS EDITIONS

"ARE OBSOLETE

HY 45701

DocId: 32557728

Page 7

(D) NO. LIVES SAVED

I1'06"

WITH LIFE-

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

SAVING

EQUIPMENT

YES

_ No (11 no, explair. in

Item 34)

¡(Over)

15

---

## Page 8

27

CRET

PASSENGERS

OTHER (Specify)

• 28

ESTIMATED LUSS/DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

NUMBER ON BOARD

20

ESTIMATED LOSS/DAMAGÉ TO YOUR CARGO

DEAD/MISSING

nil

221.1

1212

ESTIMATED LOSS'DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

INCAPACITATED (ovor 3 days) m1.2

nil

niz

(Spoelly whother veasel, dock, bridgo, erc.)

29.

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Chock one or more of tho following.

Give portinent details in item 30.)

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Speclly)

EXPLOSION/ FARE. (Other)

'GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING HI TUOUT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No vassal damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel atructure)

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION

MITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridgea, elc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel's fuel)

FIRE (Vosgel's atructure or equipment)

EXPLOSION (Bollor and associated parte)

•propulsion,

eloctrical, otc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

evaporators, dock machinery,

EXPLOSION (Pressuro vessela and compressod gas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances loading to casualty and present when it occurted.. Attach dlagram and additional

sheets, if nocessary)

Bons esplosion in way of loves nain seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo brlel denoral doscription and state ll vossel in a total lo8g.)

Foruord grid on lower Main Seawater Injection Seabox blown off and floor plating

turned into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vesselis

hull in that vicinity 55" = 32", vith hull plating jumed into vessel. Plating

buckled with frotures into sterboard side of hole. A fractura appa.

40" x 5"

to the centre of the hole and about 12" ali of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

machinery eic. rossible.

32. AUTO ALARM TRANSHITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

33(B) ASSISTANCE RENDERED

BY STATIONS

Coast Guard gave telephone munber from

where assistence coald be obtained.

IlI ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

NO

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

London Salvage Co.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS

equipment)

FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo explanation of unaailalactory lifesaving

TITLE

SIGNATURE

MASTER.

HH 45201 DocId:82557728

• Page 8

104đh

GPO 952-157

---

## Page 9

4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODT, U. S, Coast Guard, Miami Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviered concerning the size and nature of the hole

in the bottom of the "Caribbean

Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U. S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture"

MOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was apprOxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

hole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the nain water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four-

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blown into the ship, o blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

MooDY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was

attached to the grill, probably either

by wire of some

type.of toggling device by a swimmer who used afr tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS

3 JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL. P. DOOHER JCF:ed

—Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. If is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

48

NW 45701 DooId:32557728

Page 9

---

## Page 10

MM 45-1168

2

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

foot, he was

unable to ascertain if

any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the

strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the aid of tanks:

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

snokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside

ot the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

Of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

due to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

was made by i "shape charterle belleves that this hold

HY 45701

DocId: 32557728

Page 10

---

## Page 11

FD-302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. F.

ist

Avenue,

301, Miami, Florida, advised that a

• Report

on Vessel Casbalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No

CG 2002), was completed on August 12, 1968, by

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt, SMITH made available

a copy of

this form which 1s attached.

On

8/21/68

_at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

by

SA

MICHAEL E. CRANE:ed

_Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14

NW 45701 DocId: 32557728 Page 11

---

## Page 12

WW. 45701

TREASURY DEPARTHENT

U. S. COAST GUARD

CG-2592 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUAL TY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budgos Bureas

No. 48-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

• INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as "NA''

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a yes-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he nust make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such an offi-

CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Post of

MARTI

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

1. NAME UF YESSEL

2. OFFICIAL NUMBER

3. HOME PORT

500/57

IRONG:SOLE

6. PROPULSION(Stoan, diesel, etc) 7. GROSS

TONNAGE

DATE SUBMITTED

I2-3-68

A. NATIONALITY

PATETCH

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A

TATIATON

9. HULL MATERTALS-

TO. YEAR BUILT

12. (a) RADAR EQUTPPED

I968

YES

NO

13. (a) CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION ISSUED AT

PORT OF

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicelo which)

15O MAME Or OTT STROD CERT

Warael

alonmidea

16. (0) NAME OF O#NER(S), OPERATORiS) OR AGENT (Indicato which)

Ormons

3IT €5-170

EXI TRANSMIT

EX RECEIVE

ERVOICE

Cw (Key)

(D) IF YES. RADAR

OPERATING AT TIME

OF

CASUAL TY

YES

NO

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

NO DAME.

(D) DATE OF

BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY COAST GUARD

26xI7-32

YES

NO

(D) PILOT

SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF LICENSE

ISSUED

BY

USCG

STATE

FOREIGN

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR(S). OR AGENT

ENCRAIGE BUTLOIRES, QUAYSIDE,

1I PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(a) DATE OF CASUALTY

83-68

(O) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(c) ZONE DESCRIPTION

(ON TIME OF DAY

"* DAY!

NIGHT

1315

Tings

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY: (Lalltido end longitudo; dlatance end TRUE boarine from charied objoct; docki enchorado; oic.)

TWILIGHT

Pier No.3 MARI.

19. BODY OF MATER (Geographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INTERNATIONAL

_INLAND

OTHER (Spocily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21.(2) 01D CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERNAY:

(D) IF. YES, LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

• YES

NO

(C)IF YES: WHERE BOUNO WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22: (e) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY.

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

OTHER (Spacity)

(D)VISIBILITY(riloojyds.ifl.,etc.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

(O FORCE IN KNOTS

(a) GUSTY

Light airs.

I/2

,YES

NO

CONDITIONS

WHEN| (D) SEA

OCCURRED

WATER

TEUP

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(a) DIRECTION OF SEA

(o) HEIGHT

OF

SWELL

(If available)

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

85

(1) DIRECTION OF

SHELL

24. (E) NATURE OF. CARGO (Spocily)

(D) AMOUMT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tone)

(e) AMOUNT OF

BULK LIQUID

(Long tona)

(a) AMOUNT OF DECK LOAD

(Long tong)

No cargo onboard

25.(0) DRAFT. FORWARD,

(b) DRAFT AFT

14'00"

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED, IF ANY

NONS

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

DoeId: 32557728

Page 12

I4'05"

(D)NO. LIVES SAVED

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPHENT SATIS.

FACTORY

YES

I NO (Il no, explain in

Itern: 31)

(Over)

1 5

---

## Page 13

27

CREW

I PASSENGERS

OTHER (Specify)

NUMBER ON COARD

DEAD/MISSING

20

ril

nil

nil

nil

INCAPACITATED (ovor 3 days)

nil

nil

29. NATURE OF THE CASUALTY

(Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(S) (Spoclty)

28

ESTINATED LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR

CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS 'DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocify whothe: vossel, dock, bridgo, etc.)

Give portinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION/FIRE-(Other,

GROUNDING

$

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plers, bridges, etc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS

TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel'a fuel)

FIRE (Vegsel'e atructure or equipmont)

EXPLOSION (Boller and assoclated parts)

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING WITHOUT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING, ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

- are wen

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No veagol damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel structure)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Engineering machinery, including main

propulsion,

auxillaries,

boilers,

evaporatore, dock

machinery,

eloctrical, etc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

EXPLOSION (Preasure vossole and compressed das cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION

OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred.. Allach dlagram and additional

sheets, if necessary).

Bonb esplosion in way of lowes main seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo briol genoral description and state ll vossel is a total loea.)

Formand mid on Lower Nain Seawater Injection Seabox blown off and floos plating

sumed into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vessel's

hull in that vicinity 55" x 32", vith hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buckled wiüh frastures into starboard side of hole. A fractura apparo 40" = 5"

to the centra of the hole and about 12" afi of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Room

nachinery eic, rossible.

32.

AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

33(a) ASSISTANCE RENDEREO BY STATIONS

Quard and other atations and versole)

Coast Guard gave telechone mumber from

where assistence could be obtained.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

YES

NO

VESSELS (Includo Coast

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

London Selvage Co.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS. CASUALTY (Includo explanation of undatisfactory Ilfesaving

aquipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

MASTER.

HH 45201

DooId:32557728

Page 13

16

GPO 952-157

---

## Page 14

FD:3

Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

• JOSEPA HOODY, U.S. Coast Guard, Miami Beach,

Florida,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard station,

was interviewed concerning the size and nature of the hole

In the bottom of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a varlety of underwater missions

for the U.S, Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture®,

MOODY stated that although

the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blown in the bottom was approxi-

ately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

hole ws located anidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four-

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and

that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas-

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, o blow into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

at

Miant, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS

• JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL P. DOOHER JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45701 DooId: 32557728 Page 14

---

## Page 15

' MM 45-1168

2

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

foot,

he was

unable

to ascertain if

any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

to the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished

the sid of tanks.

He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

snokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from

the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

from that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside of the ship,

it takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

due to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

he believes that this

hold

was made by a "shape charge".

45701

DocId:32557728

Page

15

---

## Page 16

FD -302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E.

Avenue, Room

301, Miami, Florida, advised that a report

on Vessel Cashalty or Accident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2032), was completed on august 14, 1968, by

Captain C. D. ANDERSON, Master of the British Freighter

"Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968. Lt. SMITH made available

= copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

_at Mams, Florida

__File #

Miami

45-1168

by

SA

MICHAEL E. CRANE:ed

_ Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outaide your agency.

1.4

NW 45701 DocId: 32557728 Page 16

---

## Page 17

TREASURY DEPARTMEN

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.: 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budget Bureau

No. A8-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

MYI -4017

• INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in full; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as "NA"

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated, as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper flarine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such en offi-

(2) Attach separate Form CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of ITAlI

DATE SUBMITTED

I2-8-69

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

1. NAME UF VESSEL

2. OFFICIAL NUMBER

3.

HOME PORT

URE

305/57

5. TYPE OF

6. PROPULSION (Steam, dier

I, etc)7

GROSS

INE: SOLE

• TONNAGE

4. NATIONALITY

BETATCH

8. REGISTERED

LENGTH OR L.O.A.

I,MI

9. HULL FATERTALS

12. (a) RADAR EOUTPPED

10. YEAR BUILT

I968

11. RADIO

EGUIPNENAS

3IT 275-170

EXT TRANSMIT

EE RECEIVE

CEVOICE

I ow (Key)

(D) IF YES. RADAR OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

13. (a) CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED AT

PORT OF

ITAUT

14. (2) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicalo which)

YES

NO

(3) DATE CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION ISSUED

NO DATE.

(D) DATE OF

BIRTH

15(0) NAME OF PiLOTTil on Board al limo or accidants

12222009T

26IT:32

(D) PILOT SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST GUARD

YES

NO

LICENSE

ISSUED

BY

USCG

STATE

vascal alancide.

FOREIGN

16. (e) NAME OF

OANER(S), OPERATORiST OR AGENT (Indicato

which)

(D) ADDRESS OF OWNER(S). OPERATOR(ST. OR AGENT

Orecas

EXCEACE BUTLOLEGS, QUAYSIDE,

anachaining Canas

¡I PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17. (a) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(c) ZONE DESCRIPTION

8-8-68

zOne

(a) TiME OF DAY

EX DAY ONIGHT

I3I5 Firegio

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY (Latitude and longitudo; dialence end TRUE boarina from charted objoci; dock; enchoraju; oic.)

Pier No.3 MAaT.

19. BODY OF MATER (Goojrephical nemo)

20: RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INLAND

INTERMATIONAL

OTHER (Specily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21. (@ DID CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERMAY:

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

NO

(C) IF YES. WHERE BOUND MHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (= WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

L PARTLY CLOUDY.

I OVERCAST

FOG

(D) VISIBILITY (Miloo.yds..f..etc.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

Lignt airs.

23. (0) SEA CONDITIONS WHEN

(D) SEA

WATER

TEMP

(C) HEIGHT OF SEA

CASUALTY

OCCURRED

(ll availabio)

RAIN

SNOY

(ON FORCE IN KNOTS

I/2

(E) DIRECTION OF SEA

OTHER (Spocily)

(o) GUSTY

YES

NO

(O HEIGHT OF SWELL

(1) AIR TENPERATURE

85

..3

(1) DIRECTION OF

SHELL

24. (E) NATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tona)

(c) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID

(Long tona)

(d) AMOUNT OF

DECK LOAD

(LOng tone)

No cargo onboard

25.(@) DRAFT FORWARO,

(b) DRAFT AFT

I4'00*

26. (E) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED.

IF ANY

NOBS

PREVICUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

WH: 45701 DocId:32557728

Page 17

I4'06"

(S) NO TAG

LIVES SAVEO WITH LIFE.

(C) LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

EQUIPMENT

FACTORY

YES.

NO (Il no, explain 1

tom 34

(Over)

15

---

## Page 18

27.

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON BOARD

DEAD/MISSING

20

N217

nil

INCAPACITATED (Over 3 days)

nil

OTHER (Specify)

01)

nil

ni?

29.

NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check one or more of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL(5) (Spocily)

28

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED O8JECTS

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Piers, bridgea, etc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Ochor)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cargo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vossel'e fuel)

FIRE (Vogsei"s atructure or equipment)

EXPLOSION (Bollar and assoclated parts)

ESTIMATED

LUSS'DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS DAMAGE TO YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS'DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Specify whotho: vessel, dock, bridgo, eic.)

Givo portinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION/FIRE-(Other

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING HI TUOUT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC.. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No vessol damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessal atructure)

MATERIAL FAILURE

propulsion,

electrical,

otc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

boilers,

evaporators,: dock

machinery,

EXPLOSION (Pressure vessols and compressed fas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casualty and present when it occurred.: Atlach dlagram end additional

sheets, 11 nocessary)

Bons explosion in way of lowes main seavater injection

31.

DAMAGE (Givo brol donoral doscription end state ll veasal is a total loag.)

Foroard gid on Lower Hain Seanater Injeotion Seabox blown off and floos plating

tumed into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether with hole in vesselle

hull in that vicinity 55" = 32", with hull plating tumed into vessel. Plating

buced with frautures into starboard sida of hole. A fractura appri. 40" x 5"

to the centra of the hole and about 12" afi of the hole.

Engine Roon conpletaly under water and no detailed damage of Engine Roon

machinery etc. rossible.

IlI ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

32. AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTED BY YOUR VESSEL:

YES

NO

33(B) ASSISTANCE RENDEREO BY STATIONS

ASSISTAN ON STATES AND VESSELS (Include Coast

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

Coast Guara gave telerhone nunber from

London Salvage Co.

were assisience could be obtained.

34.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo explanation of uneatlofactory Illesaving

equipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

NASTER.

\WH. 45201 DocId:32357728 Paye 18

GPO 953-157

---

## Page 19

30MiRev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

Florida,

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miamt Beach,

who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the size and nature of the hole

in the bottom of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U.S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the "Caribbean

Venture",

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

mately three feet wide and five feet long.

He stated this

hole was located amidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

(After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer

MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57).

MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

Off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four.

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Coast

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases

his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would

say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blown into the ship, o blown into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire of some

type

of toggling device by a swimmer who used afr tanks.

MOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

ship was large enough for both he and the diver from

On

8/8/68

_at

Miami, Florida

_File #

Miami 45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL. P. DOOHER, JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

NW 45701 DooId:32557728 Page 19

---

## Page 20

MM 45-1168

IN

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

toot, he was

unable to ascertain if any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience, he would say that the explosive was attached

the strainer or grill by an experienced skin diver.

He stated this diver would, of necessity, have had to

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one who could have accomplished such a feat without

the aid of tanks. He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

snokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead

center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to locate anything on the underside

of the ship;

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

die to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

he believes that this hold

was made by " "shape charge".

4 8

HH 45701 DocId: 32557728

Page

20

---

## Page 21

FD-302. (Rev; 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1

August 27, 1968

Date

Lt. JOSEPH J. SMITH, Officer in Charge, Marine

Inspection Division, U. S. Coast Guard, 501 N. E. 1st

Avenue,

Room 301, Miami, Florida, advised that a Report

on Vessel Casbalty or Aceident (U. S. Treasury Department

form No. CG 2092), was completed on August 12, 1968, by-

Captain C. J. ANDERSON, Master of the British Freighter

*Caribbean Venture" with regard to the damage which that

vessel suffered on August 8, 1968.

Lt. SMITH made available

a copy of this form which is attached.

On

8/21/68

-at Miami, Florida

-_File #

Miami 45-1168

by

SA

MICHAEL E. CRANE: ED

-Date dictated

8/27/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

14

NW 45701 DocId: 32557728 Page 21

---

## Page 22

TREASURY DEPARTHER

U.S. COAST GUARD

CG-2692 (Rev.. 4-61)

REPORT OF VESSEL CASUALTY OR ACCIDENT

Form Approved Budget Bureau

No. 18-R114.5

REPORTS CONTROL SYMBOL

• INSTRUCTIONS

1. An original and two copies of this form shall be submitted,

3. This form should be completed in füll; blocks which do not

without delay, to the Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, in

apply to a particular case should be indicated as

whose district the casualty occurred, or in whose district the

Where answers are unknown or none, they should be indi-

vessel first arrived after such casualty.

cated. as such.

All copies should be signed.

2. If the person making the report is a licensed officer on a ves-

NOTE: (1) Report all deaths and injuries, which incapacitate

sel required to be manned by such officer, he must make the

in excess of 72 hours, on CG-924E whether or not

report in writing and in person to the proper Marine Inspector.

there was a vessel casualty.

If because of distance it may be inconvenient for such en offi-

(2) Attach separate Forn CG-924E to this report for

cer to submit the report in person, he may submit the required.

each person killed or injured and incapacitated in

number of copies by mail. However, to avoid delay in investi-

excess of 72 hours as a result of the vessel

gations, it is desired that reports be submitted in person.

casualty reported herein.

TO:

DATE SUBMITTED

12-8-68

1. NAME UF VESSEL

TITOOTH

9. HULL RATERTALS

Spany,

12. (8) RADAR EQUIPPED

Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection, Port of AmANTI

2.

OFFICIAL NUMBER

305/57

6. PROPULSION(Stoam, diesel, ote)

ITESAR,

110. YEAR BUILT

I858

I PARTICULARS OF VESSEL

3: HOME FORT

TN0: gALE

GROSS TONNAGE

A. NATIONALITY.

BE TATCH

8. REGISTERED LENGTH OR L.O.A

4517 445

J. RADIO EQUIPMENT

3IT 565175

FE TRANSMIT

I RECEIVE

7 cw (Key)

(D) IF YES. RADAR

OPERATING AT TIME

OF CASUALTY

YES

NO

13. (a)

CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION ISSUED AT PORT OF

ISTANI

14. (8) NAME OF MASTER OR PERSON IN CHARGE (Indicato shich)

YES

NO

(D) DATE CERTIFICATE OF

INSPECTION ISSUED

F0 DUDE.

(D) DATE OF BIRTH

(C) LICENSED BY

COAST

GUARD

15(0) NAME OF PILOTTY on Board Time or accident

26- II.5?

YES

NO

(D) PILOT

SERVING UNDER AUTHORITY

OF LICENSE

ISSUED

BY

Vascal alonmidea

USCG

STATE

FOREIGY

16. (2) NAME OF O#NER(S), OPERATORTS) OR AGENT (Indicato shiel)

(D) AODRESS OF

OWNER(S), OPERATOR(S), OR AGENT

Cimens

EXCENCE BUTTOLEGS, QUAYSIDE,

winnhasta Salaria Canal

HI PARTICULARS OF CASUALTY

17.(0) DATE OF CASUALTY

(D) TIME OF CASUALTY(Local or

(e) ZONE DESCRIPTION

zono)

8-3m68

(a) TIME OF DAY

BE DAY ONIGHT

I315

FoSs

TWILIGHT

18. LOCATION OF CASUALTY. (Lailtudo and longitude; distance end TRUE bearina from charted objoct; dock; anchoragu; oic.).

Pier No.3 MUNaT.

19. BODY OF MATER (Goographical namo)

20. RULES OF THE ROAD APPLICABLE

INTERMATIONAL

YES

NO

INLAND

OTHER (Spocily)

GREAT LAKES

WESTERN

RIVERS

21. (2)010 CASUALTY OCCUR WHILE UNDERWAY:

(D) IF YES. LAST. PORT OF DEPARTURE

(C)IF YES, WHERE BOUND WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED

22. (e) WEATHER CONDITIONS WHEN CASUALTY OCCURRED:

CLEAR

PARTLY CLOUDY

OVERCAST

FOG

RAIN

SNOW

OTHER (Spocity)

(D) VISIBILITY (Milos, yda., li, oic.)

(C) WIND DIRECTION

FORCE

IN KNOTS

(a) GUSTY

Ligar airs.

I/2

YES

NO

23. (e) SEA

CONDITIONS

WHEN

CASUAL TY

OCCURRED

I(D) SEA

WATER

TEND

(e) HEIGHT OF SEA

(a) DIRECTION

OF SEA

(0) HEIGHT

OF

SWELL

(Il avallablo)

(1) AIR TEMPERATURE

85

(1) DIRECTION OF

SWELL

24. (E) NATURE OF CARGO (Specily)

(D) AMOUNT OF DRY CARGO

(Long tong)

(C) AMOUNT OF

BUlK LIQUID

(Long tone)

(d) AMOUNT OF DECK

LOAD

(Long tone)

1o cargo onboard

25. (a) DRAFT FORWARD,

(b) DRAFT AFT

14'00"

26. (e) TYPES OF LIFESAVING EQUIPMENT USED. IF ANY:

NOITE

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE

OBSOLETE

I4'06"

WITH LIFE.

COLTFESAVING EQUIPMENT SATIS.

FACTORY

YES

I NO (al no, explain in

Item 31)

NH: 45701-DocId: 32557728 Page 22

15

(Over)

---

## Page 23

27

PASSENGERS

NUMBER ON BOARD

20

DEAD/MISSING

nil

2il

nil

INCAPACITATEO (over 3 days)

nil

nil

OTHER (Specily)

ril

nil

ni.?

29. NATURE OF THE CASUALTY (Check ono or moro of the following.

COLLISION WITH OTHER VESSEL (S) (Spoclly)

28

ESTIMATED LESS'DAMAGE TO YOUR VESSEL

ESTIMATED LOSS'DAMAGE TO YOUR CARGO

ESTIMATED LOSS'DAMAGE TO OTHER PROPERTY

(Spocity wholho: vessel, dock, bridge, elc.)

Givo portinent details in item 30.)

EXPLOSION: F+RE-(Other)

GROUNDING

FOUNDER (Sinking)

CAPSIZING WITHHT SINKING

FLOODING. SWAMPING. ETC. WITHOUT SINKING

HEAVY WEATHER DAMAGE

CARGO DAMAGE (No vossel damago)

MATERIAL FAILURE (Vessel structure)

$

$

COLLISION WITH FLOATING OR SUBMERGED OBJECTS

COLLISION WITH FIXED OBJECTS (Plors, bridged, erc.)

COLLISION WITH ICE

COLLISION WITH AIDS TO NAVIGATION

COLLISION (Other)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving cardo)

EXPLOSION/FIRE (Involving vessel's fuel)

FIRE (Vessel's atructure or equipment)

EXPLOSION (Bollor and assoclated parts)

propulsion, auxiliaries,

el octrical,

etc.)

EQUIPMENT FAILURE

CASUALTY NOT NAMED ABOVE

evaporatora,: dock machinery,

EXPLOSION (Pressure vossois and compressed gas cylinders)

30.

DESCRIPTION OF CASUALTY. (Events and circumstances leading to casually and present whon it occurred.. Attach diagram and additional

shoets, (I nocessary)

Bons explosion in way of lover main seawater injection

31. DAMAGE (Givo brol donoral description end state if vessel is a total loaa.)

Forcesd grid on lower Main Seawater Injection Seabox blown off and floos plating

tured into vessel's hull. After grid disappeared altogether wiin hole in vessel's

hull in that vicinity 55" = 32", viti hull plating tured into vessel. Plating

buciled with fractures into starboard side of hole. A fractura appar. 40" x 5".

to the centze of the hole and about 12" afü of the hole.

Engine Roon condletely under water and no detailed damage of Engine Roon

nachinery etc. rossible.

32: AUTO ALARM TRANSMITTEO BY YOUR VESSEL:

33(A) ASSISTANCE RENDERED BY STATIONS

Coast Guara gave telephone nunber from

where assisience coald be obtained.

Ill ASSISTANCE AND RECOMMENDATIONS

NO

(D) OTHER ASSISTANCE RENDERED

London Salvage Co.

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CORRECTIVE SAFETY MEASURES PERTINENT TO THIS CASUALTY (Includo explanation of uneatlalactory Illosavine

equipment)

TITLE

SIGNATURE

MASTER.

HH 45201

DooId:32557728 Page 23

10 / d

GPO 952.157

16

---

## Page 24

4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date

August 14, 1968

JOSEPH MOODY, U. S. Coast Guard, Miami Beach,

Florida, who is a diver attached to this Coast Guard Station,

was interviewed concerning the sire and nature of the hole

In the botton of the "Caribbean Venture."

MOODY has seven

years diving experience and during the course of this

experience has conducted a variety of underwater missions

for the U. S. Coast Guard.

After examining the underside of the Caribbean

Venture",

MOODY stated that although the visibility was very

poor due

to the murky water and location of the ship, he

would estimate that the hole blow in the bottom was approxi-

mately three feet wide and five feet long. He stated this

hole was located anidships slightly to the starboard side,

and appears to have occurred in the area where two strainers

or grills are located over the main water injection intake.

After reviewing a sketch of the ship shown to him by the

Engineer, MOODY stated this would appear to be in the area

of ribs 55, 56, and 57). MOODY stated that the strainers

or grills that are attached to the intakes are attached tỏ

the bottom of the ship with numerous bolts and that to take

off one of these grills or strainers is a three or four=

hour job.

He stated that during the course of his Const

Guard duties, he has, on occasion, removed such a strainer

and that is on what he bases his opinion.

MOODY advised that after observing the hole, he

would say that the explosion was caused by an explosive

which was attached to one of the strainers or grills, inas

much as all metal in that area was blown inward.

He stated

he could not locate either one of the grills which should

be covering the intake, and that he presumes they were

either blow into the ship, o blow into pieces and fell

to the bottom of the harbor.

MOODY stated that in his opinion, the explosive

was attached to the grill, probably either by wire or some

type of toggling device by a swimmer who used air tanks.

NOODY advised that the hole in the botton of the

shiy was large enough for both he and the diver fron

On

8/8/68

at

Miami, Florida

__File #

Miamt 45-1168

SAS JOSEPH C. FRECHETTE and

by

MICHAEL. P. DOOHER JCF:ed

-Date dictated 8/13/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency,

48

NW 45701 DooId:32557728

Page 24

---

## Page 25

MM 45-1168

INº

the Dade County Public Safety Department to enter and

observe the interior.

He stated, however, that due

to the poor visibility, approximately one

unable to ascertain if

Ten Darted®

foot, he was

any parts of the hull, the strainer,

or explosive devices were located inside.

MOODY stated that judging from his own past

experience,

use underwater swimming tanks inasmuch as he knows of

no one. who could have accomplished such a feat without

the did of tanks. He stated that he believes that in this

ship, or any other ship, the injection intakes can be

located by an experienced diver by merely locating the

smokestack on the ship and proceeding across the hull

dead center from the stack.

The intake could then be

located by swimming either 15 or 20 feet fore or aft

that section.

MOODY stated, however, that in

order to

Jocate anything on the underside

of the ship,

It takes a very experienced diver either using the seams

of the ship, or a compass in order to keep fron getting

disoriented

de to the darkness.

MOODY stated that

he believes that this hold

yas made by y "shape charge".

4 8

HH 45701 DocId: 32557728

Page 25

---

