# docid-32113802

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Aot of 1992 199 03c 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIN ADDADSINAL IUN SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10002-10176

RECORD_SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-5843. 5844

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG. MX

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1964

PAGES: 10

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-3596

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/03/2000

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, MEMO

DocId: 32113802 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

identiadj

Director, FBI (105-82555)

Legat, Moxico (105-3702)

(R) ;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aise

IS R - CUBA

April 28, 1964

673/83

Classies or

9803RDD/GCL

Declassify on

DADE FK

DECLASSI

"9/1/9

5628 545/2

ON

ENCLOSURES

TFR

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are twelve (12)

coples of a letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned

as abOve.

REFERENCE

Bureau cable, 4/20/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE

As the Bureau 1s aware, all investigative personnel

of the Mexico City office have participated in various phases

of the investigation in Mexico with respect to captioned case.

In the interest of security of Bureau operations 1n Mexico,

1t has not been deened advisable to list for the Presidential

Commission the identities of all Agents of the Mexico City

office, and for this reason only those Agents who conducted

substantive investigation in which representatives of the

Presidential Commission displayed a definite Interest have

been listed in the enclosed letterhead nemorandum.

For the information of the Bureau, the identities

of all other Agents in the Nexico City office who have

conducted Investigation in connection with this case,

togother with a brief outline of inquiries carried out by

then, are recorded hereinunder.

Llalson section)

€/ Dallas, 100-10461)

1

Mexico City

RIL: jhk

(6)

100-10461-5844

SEARCHED

3,4

1504

FBI - DALLAS

Considential

DocId: 32113802 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennety 4550551161

DATE: 11-14-2017

Confidential

MC 105-3702

SA RICHARD S. CLARK

Conducted

regarding

VICTOR

nquiries at Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico,

LUNA

concerning whom one ErNEsTo Flones

directed a

to Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY.

A MATTENEW D. CRANDORD, ER

ntervieved DE RUARDO BORRELL NAVARRO concernin

Legations by one SALVADOR DIAZ VERSO

01 OSWALD in Mexico CITy WIth BILVIA TIRADO DE DUBAN and

off1clals of the Cuban Enbassy.

SA NATHAN L. FERRIS

(ERU)

Received tron informants lax-18/and

reports concerning reactions and speculation within

anencan communist Group in Meton

_ (ACGM) concerning

assiss nation and OsWArb& Vialt to Mexico. Among AOGM

BERNSTEIN.

ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA and JOSEPH and REVA FRANK

Received several reports from informants (Mr 4676> 4)

with/respoct to the background of PEDRO GUTIERREE: VALENCIA

in Mexico.

and inquiries relating to other aspects of Investigation

SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA

Mandled Liaison with the Moxican Ministry of

Government, recelving copies of documents and data

fron

Acting Minister, and

BARAEL FERNANDEZ OCITOA...

Also handled liaison with the

Mexican Foderal Security Police and arranged for delivery

of a copy of the sighed statement di SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN

by Captain FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS.

- 2

7-10110

contidential)

DocId: 32113802 Page 3

---

