# docid-32337714

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90137-10480

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-98792-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

06/21/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

ENRIQUE LUIS JUAN AIZCORBE CALDWELL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337714 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Д....

WFQ 105-41783

HR : mmf

SERRE!

to WFO by Bureau routing slip dated

letterhead

memorandum reflects that Lt. ENRIQUE AIZCORBE

CALDWELL

evaluated a questionnaire submitted by officers of the Cuban

Armed Forces regarding their affiliations and/or acquaintances

with Americans.

The cover letter for this letterhead memorandum points

out that the source of information for the Cuban Revolutionary

Air Force was the subject at a party given by the Assistant

and that the

investigation concerning

initiated by the Minister of the Armed Forces, RAUL CASTRO,

was based on information furnished by the subject.

The above letterhead memo is classified "Confidential"

as the information contained therein was furnished on a

confidential basis; the Bureau may desire to furnish a copy

of this letterhead memo to the Milwaukee Office.

The following Cuban informants (protect identity

and characterize as having furnished reliable information

in the past) advised they have no knowledge of the subject:

source of information, on 5/19/61,

to SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL.

WF 1161-S on 6/1/61, to SA-DONALD HOETING.

ORLANDO GARCIA IGLESIAS, source of information, on

6/8/61, to SA DONALD HOETING.

In view of the fact that relet dated 6/8/61, requests

information relating to the subject's relationship with CÍA

it is deemed advisable that

the Bureau through Liaison with

CIA obtain this information o

и)

Request of the Bureau

The Bureau is requested to determine if there is any

Polationship between the subject and Cru)

OTHER 4

SERRET

- 3 -

NW 45752 DocId: 32337714

Page 2

---

