# docid-32332588

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90102-10235

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Recoras collectio

ict of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel

Case#:NU 54460 Date: 10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

'PAGES:

PACES: 01/10/194

SUBJECTS :

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

H 54460

DocId: 32332588

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

TO

ALL INTORILATION CONTAINED

1685A

FKI

M

OFEB5

OPTIOMAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1952 EDITION

8010-108-03

GBA GEN. REJ, NO. 9

INITED STATES GO UNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECIOR, FBI (64-21982)

DATE: January 10, 1964

SAC, MIAMI (134-44) 09

OCONE. INET,

MM 492-S

SECURITY INFORMANT - CUBA

Re Miami airtel to

the Bureau dated 10/25/63.

On January 7, 1964, MM 492-s advised he was in

contact with NICHOLAS TO,NONNENMACHER, Administrative

Assistant to DONALD C'X BRUCE, Representative from Indiana.

0.0

On January 6, 1964, informant explained he met NONNENMACHER

•Ila

at the Skyways Motel, Room 328, Miami, after being formally

introduced by JOSEPH MINTON, Deputy District Director,

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), Miami, who

informed MM 492-S to cooperate fully with NONNENMACHER.

Informant stated he believed the purpose of this meeting

was to possibly have MM 492-S act as interpreter when

Representative BRUCE may come to Miami, possibly during

February, 1964, in connection with an investigation of the

Cuban situation.

MM 492-S related NONNENMACHER stated he was

associated with the House Un-American Activities Committee

and had served in the Korean War where he suffered four

years in a hospital from Coummist activity. Informant

explained that NONNENMACHER seemed pleased to learn that

MM 492-S was not a "Batistiano", supporter of FULGENCIO

BATISTA, former President of Cuba. He advised NONNENMACHER

he had

never been employed by the FBI or CIA, but told him

he had been in close contact with the Legal Attache in

Havana during World War II and later had been in contact

with representatives of CIA.

Bureau (RM)

2

- Miami

DO:' !

2.

1981-2%0

12 JAN 14

54460

DocId: 32332588

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 134-44

NONNENMACHt; fade inquiry as to whether or not

MM 492-S had beard of/'"Operation Pluto",

',which NONNENMACHER

described ag/Operation Playa Giron (111-fated invasion of

Cuba on April 17, 1961), to which the informant replied

NONNENMACHER also asked if MM 492-S had any

knowledge of 'Operation Judas"

" of which the informant

indicated he häd no knowledge.

NONNENMACHER then explained

by new Keadership with HUBER? MATOS as the new head. The

new government, according to NONNENMACHER.

as Chief of the Army. NONNENMACHER explained that this

plan would operate in accord with an internal uprising in

Cuba and asked MM 492-S what he thought of such a plan.

Informant indicated that he belleved such a plan would not

be successful and was probably impossible, pointing out

that MATOS was currently in prison in the Isle of Pines

GUTIERREZ MENOYO had been a traitor

too many times, recalling the "Trinidad Affair" involving

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN. He explained that too many

people had been killed involving plans connected with

GUTIERREZ MENOYO. He further stated he did not believe

there were many Cubans who would trust MANUEL RAY. Larly,

he stated because of the strict police state which Cuba

is today, individuals inside Cuba are unable to move from

house to house without having a report prepared on their

movements by the Block Defense Committee.

NONNENMACHER asked MM 492-s if he knew whether

many Cubans were ltdving the United States for Latin America

for preparation of an invasion of Cuba, to which the

informant replied negatively. NONNENMACHER indicated many

Cubans were in Costa Rica, Guatemala and Nicaragua fraining

for a possible future Invasion of Cuba.

- 2

-

NW 54460

DocId: 32332588 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 134-44

NONNENMACHER asked the informant about FULGENCIO

XBATISTA and whether or not he knew if BATISTA had any plans*

AlISta had any plans for the future; although, he coul

lot be certain of this. He described BATISTA as a ghos

In the minds of a few followers and noted that BATISTA had

not undertaken any positive action against Cuba or CASTRO.

Informant described NUNEZ PORTUONDO, GARCIA MONTES and BELT

as pro-American, but did not believe they had any real.

following currently.

Also asked Mv 492-S what he thought

Of MANUEL RAY, ARMANDOKTLEITES, MAX LESNIR, and ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO, to which the informant responded that he agreed with

NONNENMACHER that they were "pinks"

', and could not be trusted.

NONNENMACHER asked the informant if he was familiar with

*"Replica"

The auspen et le en 402-5 aede atte printer unden

but had no knowledge it was published by CIA and also advised

NONNENMACHER he did not know how wuch money had gone into

the publication; or the extent of its distribution.

Concerning "Commandos I", the informant related

he belleves many of 1ts members were performing actions

against the CASTRO regime in good faith and not merely for

the publicity.

MM 492-S advised that he had no objection and

would be willing to confer with and possibly act as an

interpreter for a U. S. Congressional committee if so

requested by the committee officially through INs.

-3-

-

--

--

HH 54460

DocId: 32332588

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 134-44

UACB, MM 492-S may act as interpreter. 1f 80

requested by the committee.

The Bureau will be kept

informed.

The Bureau is requested to advise if they have

above formation concerning "Operation Judas", mentioned

-4-

-..

HH

54460

DocId: 32332588

Page

---

