# docid-32305113

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10287-10243

HQ

92-6054-677

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROBERTS, JOHN W. JR.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/16/1964

'PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS:

LCN, ASSOC, MAFIA, CRIMINAL ACT, ARREST, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305113

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: F1do14-2017-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA COSA NOSTRA,

Aka

CHICAGO DIVISION

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/16/64

12/14/63-7/10/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

•TYPED BY.

JaS

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JI. dated 12/13/63,

at Chicago.

New York airtel to Director dated 6/23/64.

Milwaukee airtel to Director dated 5/27/64.

Milwaukee airtel to Director dated 6/22/64.

Report of SA ALEXANDER P. LE GRAND dated 5/28/64,

at Milwaukee.

ENCIOSURES

TO BUREAU

2 copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants utilized in this report.

TO NEW YORK

2 copies of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants

utilized in this report.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Vv1

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau

| (92-6054)

(Enetsel

2- New

92-6054-677 REC-22

York (92-2311) (Enels.

2)

2-Milwaukee

(92-262)

BoChicago (92-1173)

10 JUL 20 1964

/ COPIES DESTROYED

10 MAN 26 1965

Dissemination Record of Attoched Report

Notationa

Agency

Request Ford.

Date Fwd.

How Fod.

STAT

60 SEP 1 819

DocId: 32305113

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mereased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-1173

LEADS

MILWAUKEE

AT MILWAUKEE

_WISCONSIN. 1. Will continue to

furnish information obtained from Milwaukee sources relative

to the organization and extent of influence of the Chicago

"family."

2. Will continue to keep Chicago apprised of

information concerning the proposed meeting on August 2,

1964, at the farm of SAM BATTAGLIA.

ADMINI STRATIVE

The period of this report reflects a summary of

information obtained during the past 7 months.

Information reflected in this report will have

been furnished by CG 6690-PC.

This source is extremely

knowledgeable concerning many facets of the organized

criminal field in the Chicago, Illinois area.

The accuracy

of the information furnished by the informant has been,

where possible, substantiated.

However, some of the

information, due to several reasons, cannot be corroborated

and must simply be evaluated by that which he has furnished

in the past.

This source

was originally from New York City,

New York having come to Chicago in the late 1920s.

"A-

significant factor in the

background of this informant is

that although he bears a completely Italian name which would

imply that he is of pure Italian extraction, he is by his

own admission actually Jewish.

Despite the Jewish extractior

his appearance is that of an Italian. His appearance and

his name have been accepted by those associates with whom

he has come in contact as Italian and the source has always

protected his identity to give the impression that he is

Italian realizing that should his true ethnic background

be discovered his association with Italian members of

organized crime would diminish appreciably.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32305113 Page 3

---

## Page 4

reles-ew under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CollectionSHot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HOrey

DATE:

11-14-2017

CG 92-1173

Because of this acceptance by members of the

organized criminal element and due to his long tenure in

the Chicago area, this source has supplied much information

-of a historical nature regarding the development and

perpetration of organized crime in Chicago.

It is pointed out that the name La Cosa Nostra

as such is unknown to this source, however, unquestionably

is an organization within the Chicago area which is dedicated

to a legal and illegal operation utilizing people thigat

and situations in anyway in order to make money.

source applies several different names to this organization

using that language which he is best familiar with and

by which he has known the organization.

INFORMANTS

Source

Date Contacted

CG T-1

CG 6690-PC

I1/13, 14/64

Contacting Agent

SA WILLIAM A. MEINCKE

SA JOSEPH G.

SHEA

CG T-2

CG 6486-C*

CG T-3

CG 6729-C

3/26/64°

SA ROBERT J. TOMPKINS, JR.

CG T-4

CG 6498-C-TE

1/9/64

SA WILLIAN F. ROEMER

CG T-5

MI 623-C-TE

5/28/64

SA ALEXANDER P. LE GRAND

C*

COVER PAGE.

DocId: 32305113 Page 4

---

