# docid-32318107

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10356-10284

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-667, 668

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection act of 1992

144 05C 2107 Noter.

Case#:NW 46019 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/09/1978

8

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)1; 10(a)2

Redact

10/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC TT

v9.1

NH 46019 , DooId:32318107 Page 1

94

---

## Page 2

MMO950 2521743

Assoc. Dir

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm, Serv.

Crim. Inve

Gent

PP Ha JK LV

9 SEP 78

17 58z

DE MM

RENATE

P 91743Z SEPT 78

OF INVESTIOATION

COMHUNICATIONS SECTION

FM MIAMI (92-517) P

2382

TO DIRECTOR

727382) PRIORITY

Laboratory

Least Coun

Piani, & Insp.

Res. Ment

Tech. Servs.

Trainine

Public Affs. off.

Teleptone Rm.

Director's Secy

WACKSONVILLE (72-61) PRIORITY

OLAS VEGAS PRIORITY

BT

UNCLAS E F I O

ATTENTION: ORGANIZED CRIME SECTION ED SHARP

ROSKIL,/ 00J (00: MIAMI)

92-2382-662

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO THE BUREAU JULY 31, 1978•

FOR INFORMATION OF LAS VEGAS, INFORMANT, CODE NAME ACHILLES

WHOSE IDENTITY IS KNOWN TO FBIHQ, HAS IDENTIFIED FRANK SCHWETHS,

AND CHICAGO LCN MEMBER VINCENT INSERRO, ASSISTED

BY AT LEAST

CO TWO OTHER UNKNOWN INDIVID LALS AS MURDERERREG

23.82 -

(do%

THIS INFORMANT OCCUPIES A POSITION OF LEADERSHIP WITHIN THE

SEP 12 1978

NATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME HIERARCHY AND DISCLOSURE OF THIS

INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE FBI WOULD SERIOUSLY JEOPARDIZE THE

SAFETY OF THE SOURCE.

62 SEP 26 1978

HH 46019 DocId:32318107 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE FIVE MM 92-517 UNCLAS E F T O

OF ADDRESS EXISTS AT THE U.S. POST OFFICE, HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA.

THE LAS VEGAS DIVISION HAS NOTIFIED THE MIAMI DIVISION

THAT A TITLE III EL SUR SURVEILLANCE ON

HAS REVEALED CONVER SAT IONS BETWEEN L

DAIRS OF CONVERSATIONS AND CONTENT WERE NOT FORWARDED TO MIAMI.

THE MIAMI DIVISION IS CURRENTLY INVOLVED IN A NEW YORK

INVEST IG AT ION CODE NAMED "ABSCAM; ITSP; 00: NEW YORK." NEW

YORK UNDER COVER AGENTS THROUGH NY 6774-C HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT

WITH SOL KAYE, DBA TOBACCO TOWN, HALLANDALE, FLORIDA, IN AN

ATTEMPT TO PURCHASE TWO STOLEN PAINTINGS AS WELL AS OTHER ART

PIECES. DURING UC CONTACTS WITH KAYE, JULIUS GRIECO WAS REVEALED

AS A PRINCIPAL IN THIS OPERATION. ALTHOUGH NO "BUY" WAS MADE,

MIAMI WILL REMAIN ALERT AS TO POSSIBILITY OF USING UC AND

INFORMANT CONTACI WITH GRIECO AS A MEANS OF OBTAINING INFORMATION

REGARDING FRANK SCHWEIHS.

JACKSONVILLE AL TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA, WILL CONTACT FLORIDA

DMV RECORDS AND ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN ANY BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON

ANITA VICTORIA SCHWEIHS, DOB DECEMBER 1, 1941. ALSO ATTEMPT

TO DETERMINE IF ANY VEHICLES REGISTERED IN NAME VICTORIA SCHWEIHS

IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA. IF POSSIBLE OBTAIN CURRENT PHOTO OF

K Law 10(a)1

72-2382-667

HH 46019 DocId:32318107 Page 3

---

