# docid-32989783

## Page 1

File #:

62-0m-3439

Serial Scope:

1 Khau 18

---

## Page 2

NRD45 WA PLAIN

8:42PMNITEL 1D/9/75 GHS

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES BY CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

BY MEMORAND UM TO ALL EMPLOYEES DATED MAY 28, 1975,

CAPTIONED "INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES," ALL EMPLOYEES WERE

ADVISED OF THE NECESSITY OF SECURING FBI HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL

PRIOR TO SUBMITTING TO INTERVIEWS BY REPRESENTATIVES OF CON-

GRESSIONAL COMMITTEES. THE NECESSITY OF SECURING THIS AP-

PROVAL IS. PROMPTED BY THE EMPLOYMENI AGREEMENT ALL EMPLOYEES

HAVE SIGNED.

YOU WERE ADVISED THAT CONGRESSIONAL STAFF MEMBERS

WERE CONDUCTING INTERVIEWS OF FORMER AND/OR CURRENT EMPLOYEES

AND THAT THIS BUREAU HAD PLEDGED ITS COOPERATION WITH CON-

GRESS. OUR COOPERATIVE EFFORTS, OF COURSE, MUST BE CONSISTENT

WITH BUREAU PROCEDURES.

RECENTLY, WE HAVE HAD ATTEMPTS BY CONGRESSIONAL

62-3934-18

COMMITTEE STAFF MEMBERS TO INTERVIEW CURRENT EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

PRIOR CONTACT WITH FBI HEADQUARTERS.

YOU ARE

. ND

AGAIN RESEARCHED.

INDEXED.

en #3 Supr

SERIALIZED JAILED.

#4 Sup som

91075

FBI - OMAHA

MW 55201 DOCId: 3296975512420

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

THAT IF A REPRESENTATIVE OF A CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE SHOULD

CONTACT A BUREAU EMPLOYEE, THAT EMPLOYEE SHOULD DECLINE TO

RESPOND TO QUESTIONS POSED IO HIM AND ADVISE THE CONGRES-

SIONAL STAFF MEMBER OF THE NECESSITY OF RECEIVING FBI

• HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL BEFORE RESPONDING IO QUESTIONS.

END

RECD 2'

FBI OM CLR PF.

WW 55201 Docid: 32989783 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1C

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR 141'

CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: ALL EMPLOYEES

DATE:

10/10/75

SAC EDWARD J. KRUPINSKY

INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES BY

CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

By memorandum to All Employees dated May 28, 1975,

captioned, "Interviews of FBI Employees," all employees were

advised of the necessity of securing FBI Headquarters approval

prior to submitting to interviews by representatives of con-

gressional committees.

is prompted by the Employment Agreement all employees have

signed.

You were advised that Congressional Staff Members

were conducting interviews of former and/or current employees

and that this Bureau had pledged its cooperation with Con-

gress.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent

with

Bureau procedures.

Recently, we have had attempts by Congressional

Committee Staff Members to interview current employees

without prior contact with FBI Headquarters. You are again

reminded that if a representative of a Congressional

Committee should contact a Bureau employee,

that employee

should decline to respond to questions posed to him and advise

the Congressional Staff Member of the necessity of receiving

FBI Headquarters approval before responding to questions.

1 - SAC

1

- ASAC

1

- Supervisor #3

1 - Supervisor

#4

- Each Employee

1) - Omaha (62-3439)

EJK: asn

(108)

Searched

Serialised Stu

Indexed

Filed

5010-110

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 55201

DocId: 32989783

Page 4

62-3439-17

---

## Page 5

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPÈ

FBI

Date:

9/8/75

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priorizy)

001

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

OMAHA (62-3439) (P)

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ALEXANDRIA, ET AL, SEPTEMBER

5, 1975.

UPON RECEIPT OF RE TEL

UPON RECEIPT OF RE TELETYPE, EFFORTS WERE MADE TO

CONTACT JOHN CALLAGHAN, PRESENTLY DIRECTOR OF THE IOWA

LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY, DES MOINES, IOWA, AND FORMER

ASAC OF DETROIT DIVISION. IT WAS DETERMINED THAT MR.

CALLAGHAN HAD LEFT THE STATE FOR THE WEEKEND AND IS NOT

EXPECTED TO RETURN TO DES MOINES, IOWA, UNTIL SEPTEMBER

9, 1975.

MR. CALLAGHAN WILL BE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY UPON

HIS RETURN TO DES MOINES IN ACCORDANCE WITH INSTRUCTIONS

vetel

IN RE TELETYPE AND BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED.

END.

DFM: skh

(1)

62-3439-16

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 5

MAG CARD #3246

Sen 11:16 *

_M

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 6

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

00%

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPÈ

FBI

Date: 9/9/75

CODE.

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

OMAHA (62-3439) (P)

SENSTUDY 75.

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ALEXANDRIA, SEPTEMBER 5, 1975,

AND OMAHA NITEL TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER '8, 1975.

JOHN CALLAGHAN, DIRECTOR, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

DES MOINES, IOWA, CONTACTED SEPTEMBER 9, 1975, AND ALERTED

TO POSSIBILITY OF CONTACT BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

STAFF RE CAPTIONED MATTER. CALLAGHAN WAS RECEPTIVE TO

BUREAU SUGGESTIONS AND IF CONTACTED BY SSC WILL CALL LEGAI

DIVISION FOR FULL INFO RE OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIAL-

ITY OF INFORMATION INQUIRED AS FBI EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO

ANSWERING ANY QUESTIONS. IT WAS EMPHASIZED TO CALLAGHAN

THAT BUREAU SUGGESTIONS WERE NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC

WORK BUT ONLY AS A COOPERAIIVE GESTURE. IO SAFEGUARD

SENSITIVE FBI INFORMATION.

END.

DFM: bor/skh

(1)

mising

MAG CARD #3231

Approved:

EIKWEK

- son 12: 50 Pm

Per

Agent in Charge

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972-455-574

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783

Page 6

---

## Page 7

VIA DISA

MR M3@ WA CODE

6:25 PM NITEL 9/5/75 PEJ

TO ALEXANDRIA

BBALTIMORE

BOSTOV

CHICAGO

DALLAS

JACKSON

EL PASO

JACKSONVILLE

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

NEW YYORK

OKLAHOMA CITY

PHILADELPHIA

PHOENIX

SAN DIEGO

SAN FRANCISCO

• SEATTLE •

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

BIPMINGHAM

-CINCINNATI

INDIAUAPOLIS

LOUISVILLE

MIIAMI

OMAHA

ST. LOUIS

SAVANNAH

REBUTELS MAY 2, 1975, AND SEPTEMBER 4, 1975:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED WHEREABOUTS

OF A NUMBER ÓF FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES INDICATING THEY MAY BE

INTEPVIEVED BY THE SSC STAFF: LISTED BELO!!, BY FIELD OFFICE

TERRITORY, ARE THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES AND THEIR LAST KNOWN

ADDRESSES AS CONTAINED IN BUREAU FILES.

662-3439-14

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

SEP 5

1975

moits-

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE THO

ÜEK..Act 6 (1) (B)

ALL OTHERS IN LISI BELO! WERE EITHER

SAC; ASAC, OR BOTH, DURING PERIOD 1959 - 1966 IN ONE OR MORE

OF THE FOLLOWING OFFICES: BOSTON, DETROII, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI,

NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SEATTLE, AND WASHINGTON FIELD. THEY

PRESUMABLY ARE ALSO KNOWLEDGEAPLE CONCERNING MAIL OPENINGS..

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS IO BE INMEDIATELY

•CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE MIGHI BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW. THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACTED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION TO ASSIST HIM INCLUDING

OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY DE INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF

ASSISTANCE IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK, BUT IS DONE

AS COOPERATIVE, GESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU

INFORMATION.

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE THREE

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED

PERSONALLY BY SAC OR ASAC. IN EVENT THIS

IS NOI FEASIBLE

FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAU BY NITEL IN ABOVE CAPTION, BRIEFLY INCLUDING REACTION

OF FORMER EMPLOYEES CONTACTED. IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER, IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AUWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBIHQ.

ALEXANDRIA:

N. DONALD STEWWARI, CRYSTAL HOUSE I, APARIMENT 202, ARLINGION,

VIRGINIA..

JAMES H. GALE, 3307 ROCKY MOUNT ROAD, FAIRFAX, VIRGINIA

THOMAS E BISHOP, 8820 STARK ROAD, ANNANDALE, VIRGINIA

BALTIMORE:

ANTHONY P. LITRENTO, 2810 SIONYBROOK DRIVE, BOWIE, MARYLAND

PAUL D'ONNELL, JR.,, 2417 STRATION DRIVE, POTOMAC, MARYLAND

DONALD E. RONEY, 131 CAMBRIDGE DRIVEE, WINDSOR HILLS,

WILMINGTON, DELA"ARE

VICTOR TURYN, 2645 TURF VALLEY ROAD, ELLICOTI CITY,

MARYL AND

DONALD W: MORLEY, BOX 2229, NEW MARKET, MARYLAND

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE FOUR

BIRMINGHAM:

JOHN DAVID POPE, JR

•, 321 REMINGTON ROAD, BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA

BOSTON:

LEO L. LAUGHLIM, 9 EVEREIT AVENUE, WINCHESTER, MASSACHUSEITS

EDWARD J. POWERS, 10 COLONIAL DRIVE, BEDFORD, NEW HAMPSHIRE

J.F. DESMOND, 185 FRANKLIN STREET, BOSION, MASSACHUSETIS .

CHICAGO:

• MARLIN W. JOHNSON, CANTEEN CORPORATION, THE MERCHANDISE.

MART, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

HARVEY G. FOSTER, 1012 SOUTH HAMLIN, PARK RIDGE, ILLINOIS

CI : •

PAUL. FIELDS, 2677 CYCLORAMA DRIVE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

HARRY J. MORGAN, 5314 ELMCREST LANE, CINCINNATI, OHIO

DALLAS:

PAUL H. STODDARD, 3014 CHATTERION DRIVE, SAN ANGELO, TEXAS .

KENNETH E. COMMONS, 2458 DOUGLAS DRIVE, SAN ANGELO,, IEXAS

EL. PASO:

KARL W. DISSLY, POSI OFFICE BOX 9762, EL PASO, TEXAS

INDIANAPOLIS:

DILLARD "1. HOWELL, 64,13 CARDINAL LANE, INDIANAPOLIS,

INDIANA

ALLAN GILLIES , 8228 HOOVER LANE, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA

JACKSON:

WILLIAMS W. BURKE, JR., 1847 AZTEC DRIVE, JACKSON,

MISSISSIPPI

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 10

---

## Page 11

PAGE FIVE•

JACKSONVILLE:

FLORIDA

DONALD K. BROWN, 826 BROOKMONT AVENUE, EAST JACKSONVILLE,

WILLIAM M. ALEXANDER, 4857 WATER OAK LANE, JACKSONVILLE,

FLORIDA

LOUISVILLE:

KENTUCKY

LOS ANGELES:

CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA

BERNARD C. BROWN, 2301 NEWMARKET DRIVE, N.E., LOUISVILLE,

WILLIAM G. SIMON, 2075• LOMBARDY ROAD, SAN MARINO,

WESLEY G. GRAPP, 4240 BON HOMME ROAD, WOODLAND HILLS,

ARNOLD C. LARSON, 4232 ABBINGION COURT, WESTLAKE VILLAGE,

• JOSEPH K. PONDER, 3719 CARRIAGE HOUSE COURI, ALEXANDRIA,

VIRGINIA. BUSINESS ADDRESS: 3030 SOUTH RED HILL AVENUE,

SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA

MEMP HIS •

E. HUGO WINTERROD, 155@ NORTH PARKAY, MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

MIAMI:

THOMAS MC ANDREUS, 324 NEAPOLITAN WAY; NAPLES, FLORIDA -

' FREDERICK F. FOX, 11450 W. BISCAYNE CANAL ROAD, MIAMI,

FLORIDA

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 11

---

## Page 12

PAGE SIX

NEV! YORK:

JOSEPH L. SCHMIT, 656 HUNT LAWE, MANHASSET, NEW YORK

HENRY •A. FIIZGIBBON, 76 EASION ROAD, BRONXVILLE, NEW YORK

OKLAHOMA CITY:

JAMES I. MORELAND,

108 FERN DRIVE, POTEAU, OKLAHOMA

LEE O. TEAGUE, 2501 N.W. 12ISI STREET, OKLAHOMA CITY,

OKLAHOMA

JOHN F. CALLAGHAN, IOWA LA! ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

CAMP DODGE, POSI OFFICE BOX 130, JOHNSTON, IOMA

PHILADELPHIA:

RICHARD J. BAKER, 219 JEFFREY LANE, NEWTON SQUARE,

PENNSYLVANIA

JOHN F. MALONE, 25 GARFIELD AVENUE, CARBONDALE, PENNSYLVANIA

PHOENIX:

PALMER M. BAKEN, JR., 3832 EASI YUCCA STREET, PHOENIX,

ARIZONA

ST. LOUIS:

THOMAS

J. GEARTY, 663D CLAYTON ROAD NR. 105, RICHMOND HEIGHTS,

MISSOURI

WESLEY I. WHAEY, 286 GREEN TRAILS DRIVE, CHESTERFIELD,

MISSOURI

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 12

---

## Page 13

PAGE SEVEN

SAN DIEGO:

• FRANK L. PRICE, 2795 TOKALON STREET, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA

SAN FRANCISCO:

CURTIS O. LYNUM,

644 EAST HILLSDALE BOULEVARD, SAN MATEO,

CALIFORNIA

•HAROLD E. WELBORN, 13967 LA VISTA COURT, SARATOGA,

CALIFORNIA

SAVANNAH:

TROY COLEMAN, 36 CROMWELL ROAD, WILMINGTON PARK, SAVANNAH,

GEORGIA

JOSEPH D. PURVIS, 721 DANCY AVENUE, SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

SEATTLE:

• LELAND V. BOARDMAN, ROUTE 3, BOX 268, SEQUIM, "'ASHINGTON

RICHARD D. AUERBACH, P.O. BOX 1768, SEATILE, WASHINGION

JAMES E. MILNES, 4317 - 5MTH AVENUE, N.E., SEATILE,

WASHINGTON

PAUL R. BIBLER, 15134 - 38TH AVENUE, N.E., SEATTLE,.

- WASHINGTON

• END

FBI OM CLR AX AND IKS PF

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 13

---

## Page 14

VIA INCIPERALO TOOTS

AR 033 WA CODE

6:52PM 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PEASONAL AITENTION

SENSTUDY 75

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE, ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAI

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSISI AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERTAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECI IO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSO STAFF

INTERVIEWS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CURRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN IIS TERRITOY INTERVIEWED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAU FRÉQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHERWISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEM BY THE SSC SIAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACI THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIE!!, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THẠI IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

4 1

62-343%13

SAC

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

EXED

ASAC

SAc Advissiso

SEP 4 1975

FBI-OMANA

RumM

NW 55201 DooId: 32989783 Bage 14

---

## Page 15

PAGE TWO

INTERVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: IN THE USUAL CASE,

AS CCIRCUMSTANCES UNFOLD; IHE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD(I)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHT TO LEGAL COUNSEL, BUT THAT THE BUREAU

CANNOT PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAT THE BUREAU HAS WAIVED THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEN WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAI THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

WHICH HE IS NOI REQUIRED IO ANSVER QUESTION. THESE AREAS

ARE RELATING TO INFORMATION WHICH MAY (A) IDENTIFY BUREAU

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHNIQUES; (C) REVEAL

IDENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT. ONGOING BUREAU INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEVEES CONSULTATION

PRIVILEGES WHEREBY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOI ACTUALLY AI INTERVIE!!, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM SHOULD QUESTIONS. ARISE AS TO PARAMETERS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANI DID NOI ACI

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BIREAU WILL NO LONGER PROVIDE

NW 55201 DoeId: 32989783 Page 15

---

## Page 16

PAGE THREE

ON-THE-SCENE PERSONNEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECIIVE INTERVIEVEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAT, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACI EITHER PERSONALLY (IF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.) OR BY COLLECT CALL, THE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. V. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURNISHING. TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

• FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPARTMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL PRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT .

EXPENSE TO THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT. ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

IN THIS REGARD

END

PLEASE HOLD

ANOTHER ALL SAC JUST CAME IN

WW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 16

---

## Page 17

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

6

Omaha World-Herald; Friday, June 20, 1975

• Senate Probe Reaches Gordon

By David Beeder

At one point, 'Borman in-

quired:

day by The World-Herald I

A Gordon, Neb.,

automobile

"You're not going to print

Washington Bureau.

dealer, who spent three years in.

this are you?",

A committee spokesman in

Army

intelligence,

has been

That Borman was questioned.

Washirigton declined to elabo-

questioned by a U.S. Senate

by a Senate investigator appar-

rate except to say the mission

committee investigator, the

had

ently was known only to a few

no connection with they

dealer confirmed Thursday.

persons in Gordon, a town of

American Indian Movement

Jerry Borman, 27, said he is

2,100 in Sheridan County.

takeover at Wounded Knee,

«not at liberty" to discuss what

First report that a Senate in-

S.D., near Gordon, in 1973.

questions he was asked by the

vestigator had been assigned to

No Notification'

representative of the Senate

visit Gordon was made Wednes-

Subsequent inquiries by The

World-Herald brought to light a

committee investigating the

Central Intelligence Agency

report that Borman had been

and other federal intelligence

visited by a Senate in-s

vestigator.

activities.

"It wasn't any big deal,"

The committee investigating

*, Borman said.

"I don't even re-

the federal intelligence estab-

lishment is headed by Demo-

member the name of the man

iwho questioned me. He came to

cratic Sen. Frank Church of

own and left. It was about two

Idaho.

weeks ago."

Church's committee appar-

Borman,

who attended

ently did not notify Sheridan

Creighton University.from 1965

County authorities or federal

officials in Nebraska that it

to 1967, said he enlisted in the.

planned to send an investigator

to Gordon.

Both the FBI office in Omaha

and U.S. Atty. Daniel Wherry

said they had no knowledge of

the visit.

"I know nothing about it,"

Sheridan County Atty. Mike

Smith said Thursday. d,

on he said in a telephonio

le said in a telenhone ir

-___-

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783

Page 17

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

6

OMAHA WORLD-HERALD

Omaha, Nebr.

6/20/75

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

David Beeder

Keith Wilson

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

Omaha

7 Being Investigated

OM 62-3439-122

SEARLHED_

SERIALIZEDE

JUN ZU 1975

FBI- OMAHA

---

## Page 18

FD-350 (Rev. 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Tues. -6/18/15

Senate Committee Sending

Investigator to Gordon, Neb.

WORLD-HERALD BUREAU. On;" a committee spokesman

- An investigator is being.sent

said. To do.so, he said, "could

to Gordon, Neb., by the Senate

dry up sources."

committee that is investigating

Much the same reply came

the Central Intelligence Agency

from an aide ,to Sen. John Tow.

and other government in-

telligence actívities, a source

said,

* A committee spokesman said

is headed by sen.

D-Ida.

that the investigation has noth-

ing to do with the American In-

dian Movement takeover of

Wounded Knee, S. D. He said he

could

not discuss the matter

further.

"We haven't been in the cus-

& tom of identifying different in-

terrogations that are going

Inile the committee's, in

estigation of the Central'In-

telligence Agency has attracted

the most attention, it also is!

looking into the intelligence ac-

tivities of other agencies, such

as the Federal Bureau of In-

vestigation.

st 55201 Docid: 32989783

Page 18

(water, ly and afato.)

Omaha World Herald

Omaha, Nebraska

Date: 6/18/75

Edstion: Afternoon

Editor: Keith Wilson

Title:

Character:

of

Classification:

Submitting Office: OM

Being Investigated

SEARCHER®

62-3439-11

SERIALIZED A NED LE

JUN 2 3 1975

FBI - OMAHA

---

## Page 19

VLA INCEPTED TRAC

AROBT MP COBE

5:43 PM NITEL JUNE 2D, 1975

LSB

TO

DIRECTOR

WFO

OMAHA

(62-3439)

FROM

MINNEAPOLI'S

(66-3610)

ATTENTION: JOHN C. GORDON, ROOM 5078, GENERAL CRIMES UNIT,

•CENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.

SENATOR CHURCH'S COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING CIA ACTIVITIES, SENSTAD •

75, INFORMATION CONCERNING.

RE OMAHA NITEL TO DIRECTOR. JUNE 19, 1975.

INFOGMATION HAS BEEN DEVELOPED THAT THE PURPOYE OF THE

CHURCH COMMITTEE INVESTPGATOR*S TRAVEL TO GORDON,. NEBRASKA, IS

FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONIACTING AND INTERVIEWING A FORMER MEMBER OF

THE MILITARY INTELLIGENCE.. THIS INDIVIDUAL WHO OWNS A BUSINESS

IN GORDON, NEBRASKA, IS BELIEVED TO BE JERRY BORMAN, WHO OPERATES

A CHEVROLET DEALERSHIP IN GOGDON AND PRESLMABLY WAS A MEMBER

OK THE MILITWRY INIZLLIGENCE SERVING OVERSEAS.

GND

IJS

FBI OMAHA FOR TWO TELS •

62-3438-10

SEARCHED_ CHE INDEXED.

SERIALIZED. A

JUN 20 1975 |

FBI - OMAHA

HeRSte

NW: 55201. DocId: 32989783 Page 19.

---

## Page 20

XP-36 (Rey, 5-22-64) i

07

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

TO:

FBI

Date: 6/19/75

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

FROM:

DIRECTOR - 10:20P

MINNEAPOLIS - 9: 3)P

OMAHA (62-3439) (P)

ATTENTION: JOHN C. GORDON, GID.

SENATOR CHURCH'S COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING CIA ACTIVITIES.

SENSTUDY 75. INFORMATION CONCERNING.

*2 ORESFOMAHA TELCALLS TO BUREAU AND MINNEAPOLIS, JUNE 19,

1975.

GDM: 1r1

(2)1R

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

, NW. 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 20

IN THE JUNE 19, 1975 AFTERNOON ISSUE OF THE OMAHA WORLD

HERALD, A DAILY NEWSPAPER, OMAHA, NEBRASKA, APPEARED THE

FOLLOWING ARTICLE CAPTIONED "SENATE COMMITTEE SENDING

INVESTIGATOR TO GORDON, NEBRASKA". THE ARIICLE APPEARED

UNDER A WORLD HERALD WASHINGTON BUREAU DATELINE.

CONTACT WITH OMAHA WORLD HERALD AUTHORITIES AT OMAHA

FAILED TO DEVELOP THE NATURE OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE'S

INVESTIGATION AT GORDON, NEBRASKA. WORLD HERALD AUTHORITIES

Searched

Berlalised Dlu

Indexed

Idersly 376

dur

Sent_

abovesn

Per

GPO: 1970 0 - 402-735

62-3439-9

---

## Page 21

FD:96 PRev. 5-22-64).

Transmit the following in

Via -

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OM 62-NEW

PAGE TWO

EXPLAIN THEY HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO DEVELOP THIS INFORMATION

IN WASHINGTON.

THE ARTICLE REFERRED TO ABOVE IS SET FORTH BELOW VERBATIM:

*"AN INVESTIGATOR IS BEING SENT TO GORDON, NEB., BY THE

SENATE COMMITTEE THAT IS INVESTIGATING THE CENTRAL INTELL

IGENCE AGENCY AND OTHER GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES,

A SOURCE. SAID.

"A COMMITTEE SPOKESMAN SAID THAT THE INVESTIGATION

HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE AMERICAN INDIAN MOVEMENT TAKEOVER

OF WOUNDED KNEE, S.D. HE SAID HE: COULD NOT DISCUSS THE

MATTER FURTHER.

"*WE HAVEN'T BEEN IN THE CUSTOM OF IDENTIFYING DIFFER-

ENT INTERROGATIONS THAT ARE GOING ON, ' A COMMITTEE SPOKES-

MAN SAID. TO DO SO, HE SAID, 'COULD DRY UP SOURCES.'

"MUCH THE SAME REPLY CAME FROM AN AIDE TO SEN. JOHN

TOWER OF TEXAS, THE RANKING REPUBLICAN ON THE COMMITTEE THAT

IS HEADED BY SEN. FRANK CHURCH, D-IDA. "WE HAVEN'T BEEN

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 21

Sent

_M

Per

GPO: 1970 0 - 402-735

---

## Page 22

FD-36 PRev. 5-22-64) a 1

Transmit the following in

Via.

-

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

OM 62-NEW

PAGE THREE

"TALKING AT ALL ABOUT THE COMMITTEE'S ACTIVITIES', HE SAID.

"WHILE THE COMMITTEE'S INVESTIGATION OF THE CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HAS ATTRACTED THE MOST ATTENTION, IT

ALSO IS LOOKING INTO THE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF OTHER

AGENCIES, SUCH AS THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION."

OMAHA UNABLE TO SHED ANY LIGHT ON THE ABOVE INFORMATION.

INASMUCH AS SIX SPECIAL AGENTS OF THE FBI ARE NOW USING

GORDON, NEBRASKA, AS LIVING QUARTERS WHILE HANDLING GIR

INVESTIGATIONS ON PINE RIDGE RESERVATION UNDER DIRECTION

OF MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE, MINNEAPOLIS BEING FURNISH THIS

INFORMATION/

END.

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

-AW 55201 DocId:32989783 - Page 22

- Sent

_ M

Per

GPO: 1970 0 - 402-735

---

## Page 23

-

OPTO NAY FOIMONO. 10

ESA FPMR (41 •CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: SAC, OMAHA (62-3439) - C -

DATE: 6/9/75

FROM : SA L. JOSEPH HERSLEY

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

BUFILE: 62-116395

Captioned matter has been in pending status within the

POSSibiLitY OR LOrMEr SA JOIN J, QUIN, currently guplayed

at the Iowa Law Enforcement Academy (ILEA), Des Moines,

Lowa, being contacted by representative of investigative

Mr. QUINN was recontacted by SA HERSLEY on 6/9/75 and

has had no inquiries or requests that he avail himself for

interview or questioning.

It is, therefore, suggested this matter be closed

within the Omaha division.

It is not felt that correspondence

to the Bureau is mandatory. In the event QUINN is later

contacted by a representative of the committee he will

immediately inform SA HeRSLEy who will, in turn, appropriately

notify the Bureau.

Please close.

1 - Omaha

LJH: 1jh

62-3439-8

JUN I 0 1975

FBI-OMAHA

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-110

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 23

---

## Page 24

OFFICE OF TEE DIRECTOR

1-75

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

May 28, 1975

MEMORANDUM TO ALL EMPLOYEES

-

RE: INTERVIEWS OF FBI EMPLOYEES

All employees are advised that Congress is conducting

an inquiry into activities of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Congressional staff members are conducting interviews of former

and current FBI employees. This Bureau has pledged its cooperation

with the Congress.

You are reminded of the FBI Employment Agreement

(copy attached) with which you agreed to comply during your employment

in the FBI and following termination of such employment.

Also, you are reminded of Title 28, Code of Federal

Regulations, Section 16.22 (copy attached), which reads as follows:

"No employee or former employee of the Department of

Justice shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority,

produce any material contained in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material contained in the files of the Department,

, or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of

the performance of his official duties or because of his official status

without prior approval of the appropriate Department official or the

Attorney General in accordance with Section 16.24."

Also, you are reminded of Department of Justice Order

Number 116-56, dated May 15, 1956, (copy attached) which, among

other things, requires an employee upon the completion of his testimony

to prepare a memorandum outlining his testimony.

Our cooperative efforts, of course, must be consistent

with the above cited authority. Therefore, if you are contacted for

purpose of interview or testimony you are to request approval as

required by the Employment Agreement and await authorization before

furnishing information, testimony, or record material.

62-3439-7

Enclosures (3)

critical modes

Clarence M. Kelley JUAl 6 1975

Director

FBI - OMAHA

1A0u

NW 55209-1978

DocId: 32989783

Page 24

---

## Page 25

FD-291 (Rev. 11-1-73)

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

As consideration for employment in the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), United

States Department of Justice, and as a condition for continued employment, I hereby declare

that I intend to be governed by and I will comply with the following provisions:

(1) That I am hereby advised and I understand that Federal law such as

Title 18, United States Code, Sections 793, 794, and 798; Order of the

President of the United States (Executive Order 11652); and regulations

issued by the Attorney General of the United States (28 Code of Federal

Regulations, Sections 16.21 through 16.26) prohibit loss, misuse, or un-

authorized disclosure or production of national security information, other

classified information and other nonclassified information in the files of

the FBI;

(2) I understand that unauthorized disclosure of information in the files

of the FBI or information I may acquire as an employee of the FBI could

result in impairment of national security, place human life in jeopardy, or

result in the denial of due process to a person or persons, who are subjects

of an FBI investigation, or prevent the FBI from effectively discharging its

responsibilities. I understand the need for this secrecy agreement; there-

fore, as consideration for employment I agree that I will never divulge;

publish, or reveal either'by word or conduct, or by other means disclose to

any unauthorized recipient without official written authorization by the

Director of the FBI or his delegate, any, information from the investigatory

files. of the FBI or any information relating to material contained in the files,

or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as a part of the

performance of my official duties or because of my official status. The burden

is on me to determine, prior to disclosure, whether information may be disclosed

and in this regard I agree to request approval of the Director of the FBI in each

such instánce by presenting the full text of my proposed disclosure in writing to

the Director of the FBI at. least thirty (30) days prior to disclosure. I understand

that this agreement is not intended to apply to information which has been placed

in the public domain or to prevent me from writing or speaking about the FBI but

it is intended to prevent disclosure of information where disclosure would be

contrary to law, regulation or public policy. I agree the Director of the FBI is

in a better position than I to make that determination;

(3) I agree that all information acquired by me in connection with my official

duties with the FBI and all official material to which I have access remains

the property of the United States, of America, and I will' surrender upon demand

by the Director of the FBI or his delegate, or upon separation from the FBI, any

material relating to such information or property in my possession;

(4) That I understand unauthorized disclosure may be a violation of Federal

law and prosecuted as a criminal offense and in addition 'to this agreement may

be enforced by means.of an injunction or other civil remedy.

I accept the above provisions as conditions for my employment and continued employment

in the FBI. I agree to comply with these provisions both during my employment in the FBI and

following termination of such employment.

-

(Signature)

(Type or print name)

Witnessed and accepted in behalf of the Director, FBI, on

NW 55201

Docid: 32989783

, 19

-, by

Page 25

(Signature)

---

## Page 26

Offire of the Attarney General

Washington, A. G. 20530

Tanuary 18, 1973

ORDER NO. 501-73

RULES AND REGULATIONS

Title 28— JUDICIAL

ADMINISTRATION

Chapter I-Department of Justice

(Order 501-73]

PART 16-PRODUCTION OR DISCLO-

SURE OF MATERIAL OR INFORMA-

TION

Subpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

This order delegates to certain De-

partment of Justice officials the author-

ity to approve the production or dis-

closure of materlal or information con-

tained in Department files, or informa-

tion or material acquired by a person

while employed by the Department. It

applies where a subpena, order or other

demand of a court or other authority,

such as an administrative agency, is is-

sued for the production or disclosure of

such information.

By virtue of the authority vested in-me.

by 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, and 5 U.S.C. 301,

Subpart B of Part 16 of Chapter I of

Title 28, Code of Federal Regulations, is

revised, and its provisions renumbered

to read as follows:

Subpart B-Production or Disclosure in Responso

to Subpenas of Demands of Courts or Other

Authorities

Sec.

or disclosure prohibited

unless approved by appropriate De-

16.23 Procedure to tae event of a demand

16.24 prata dia date into beg

the Attorney

to the demand is required.

6.26 Procedure in the event of an adverse

ruling.

:01 *HORITY: 28 U.S.C. 509, 510 and 5 U.S.C.

jubpart B-Production or Disclosure

in Response to Subpenas or De-

mands of Courts or Other Authori-

§ 16.21 Purpose and scope.

(b) For purposes of this subpart, the

term "employee of the Department" in-

cludes all officers and employees of the

United States appointed by, or subject

to the supervision, jurisdiction, or control

of, the Attorney General of the United

States,

including U.S. attorneys, U.S.

marshals, and members of the staffs of

those officials.

§ 16.22

Production or disclosure prohib-

ited unless approved by appropriate

Department oflicial.

No employee or former employee of the

Department of Justice shall, in response

of a court or other au-

thority, produce any material contained

in the files of the Department or disclose

any information relating to material con-

tained in the files of the Department, or

disclose any information or produce any

formance of his official duties or because

of his official status without prior ap-

proval of the appropriate Department of-

ficial or the Attorney General in accord-

ance with § 16.24.

§ 16.23 Procedure in the event of a de-

mand for production or disclosure.

(a) Whenever a demand is made upon

an employee or former employee of the

Department for the production of ma-

terial or the disclosure of information

described in § 16.21(a), he shall im-

mediately notify the U.S. attorney for

the district where the issuing authority

is located. The U.S. attorney shall im-

mediately request instructions from the

appropriate Department official, as desig-

nated in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The Department officials author-

ized to approve production or disclosure

under this subpart are:

(1) In the event that the case or other

matter which gave rise to the demanded

material or information is or, if closed,

was within the cognizance of a division

of the Department,

the Assistant At-

torney General in charge of that divi-

sion. This authority may be redelegated

to Deputy Assistant Attorneys General.

(2) In instances of demands that are

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) of this

section:

NW 55201

DocId: 32989783

Page 26

---

## Page 27

1) The Director of the Federal Bu- § 16.26 Procedure in the crent of an ad

reau of Investigation, if the demand is

verse ruling

one made on an employee or former em-

If the court or other authority declines

ployee of that Bureau for information

to stay the effect of the demand in re-

or if the demand calls for the production

sponse to & request made in accordance

of material from the files of that Bu-

rules that the demand must be com-

plied with Irrespective of Instructions

not to produce the material or disclose

mand calls for the production of ma-

verial from the files of that Bureau.

the information sought, in accordance

(3) In instances of demands that are

with § 16.24, the employee or former em-

not covered by paragraph (b) (1) or (2)

ployee upon whom the demand has been

of this section, the Deputy Attorney

made shall respectfully decline to comply

General.

with the demand. "United States ex rel

(c) Il oral testimony is sought by the

Touhy v. Ragen," 340 U.S. 462.

demand, an afidavit, or, Ii that is not

Dated: January 11, 1973.

feasible, & statement by the party seek-

ing the testimony or his attorney, setting

RICHARD G. KLEINDIENST,

forth a summary of the testimony de-

Attorney General.

sired, must be furnished for submission

(PR Doc.73-1071 Filed 1-17-73;8:15 amJ

by the U.S. attorney to the appropriate

Department offcial.

16.24 Final action by the appropriat

Department official

or the Altornc

Gencral.

(a) If the appropriate Department of-

ficial, as designated in § 16.23(b), ap-

proves a demand for the production of

material or disclosure of information,

he shall so notify the U.S. attorney and

such other persons as circumstances may

warrant.

(b) It the appropriate Department

official,

decides not to approve a demand for the

production of material or disclosure of

information, he shall immediately refer

the demand to the Attorney General for

lecision. Upon such referral, the Attor-

ney General shall make the final decision

and give notice thereof to the U.S. attor-

ney and such other persons as circum-

stances may warrant.

§ 16.25

Procedure where a Department

decision concerning a demand is not

made prior to the time a response to

the demand is required.

If response to the demand is required

before the instructions from the appro-

priate Department official or the Attor-

ney General are received, the U.S. attor-

ney or other Department attorney des-

ignated for the purpose shall appear with

the employee or former employee of the

Department upon whom the demand has

een made, and shall furnish the court

or other authority with

a copy of the

regulations contained in this subpart and

Inform the court or other authority that

the come on be need being tas

case may be, referred for

prompt consideration of the appropriate

Department oficial and shall respect-

ully request the court or authority to

stay the demand pending receipt of the

requested instructions.

NN 55201 DooId:32989783 Page 27

---

## Page 28

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAT

WASHINGION, D. C.

May 15, 1956

ORDER NO. 116-56

It 1s the policy of the Department of Justice to extend the fullest

possible cooperation to congressional committees requesting Information from

departmental files, interviews with department employees, testimony of depart-

sent personnel, or testimony of Federal prisoners. The following procedures

are prescribed in order to effectuate this policy on a basis which will be

mutually satisfactory to the congressional committees and to the Department.

[Ints order supersedes the Deputy Attorney General's Memorandum No. 5, dated

March 23, 1953, and his Memorandum No. 97, dated August 5, 1954. It formal-

Izes the Attorney General's press release of November 5, 1953, establishing

procedures to permit committees of the Congress and their authorized repre-

sentatives to interview and to take sworn testimony from Federal prisoners.

It supplements Order No. 3229 (Revised) dated January 13, 1953, and Order

January 13, 1953), Insofar as said orders have reference to procedures to be

followed in the Department's relations with congressional committees. In

support of this order, reference should be had to the President's letter

dated May 17, 1954, addressed to the Secretary of Defense, and to the Attorney

General's Memorandum which accompanied it.]

A. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FROM DEPARIMENT FILES

the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney General,

who is responsible for the coordination of our liaison with Congress and

congressional committees. The request shall state the specific information

sought as well as the specific objective for which it is sought. The Deputy

Attorney General will forward the request to the appropriate division where a

reply will be prepared and returned for the Deputy Attorney General's signa-

ture and dispatch to the chairman of the committee.

2. If the request concerns a closed case, 1. e., one in which

there is no litigation or administrative action pending or contemplated,

the file may be made available for review in the Department, in the presence

of the official or employee having custody thereof. The following procedure

ete rate rioting once.

shall be followed in such cases:

a. The reply letter will advise the committee that the

file is available for examination and set forth the

name, telephone extension number, and room number of

the person who will have custody of the file to be

reviewed;

• NW 55201 DocId: 32989783

Page 28

---

## Page 29

• 12.

D. Before making the file available to the committee

representative all reports and memoranda from the FBI

as well as investigative reports from any other agency,

will be removed from the file and not be made available

for examination; provided however that if the committee

representative states that it is essential that information

from the FBI reports and memoranda be made available,

he will be advised that the request will be considered

by the department. thereafter a summary of the contents

of the FBI reports and memoranda involved will be

prepared which will not disclose investigative tech-

niques, the identity of confidential Informants, or

opera note of the intent te urize while forwarded

by the division to the FBI with a request for advice as

to whether the FBI has any objection to examination of

such summary by the cormittee representative. The file

will not be physically relinquished from the custody of

the Department.

If the committee representative desires

to examine investigative reports from other government

agencies, contained in the files of the Department, he

will be advised to direct his request to the agency whose

reports are concerned.

3. If the request concerns an open case, 1. e., one which liti-

gation or administrative action is pending or contemplated, the file may

not be made available for ezamination by the committee's representative.

The following procedure shall be folloved:

a. The reply letter should advise the committee that

Its request concerns a case in which litigation or

administrative action is pending or contemplated; and

state that the file cannot be made available until the

case is completed; and

b. Should briefly set forth the status of the case in

as much detail as is practicable and prudent without

jeopardizing the pending contemplated litigation or

administrative action.

B. REQUESTS FOR INTERVIEVS WITH DEPARIMENTAL PERSONNET.

any official matters within the Department should be reduced to writing,

signed by the chairman of the committee, and addressed to the Deputy Attorney

General. When the approval of the Deputy Attorney. General is given, the

employee is expected to discuss such matters freely and cooperatively with

the representative, subject to the limitations prescribed in A respecting

open cases and data in investigative reports;

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783

Page 29

---

## Page 30

-3=

2. Upon the completion of the intervier with the committee repre-

sentative the employee will prepare a summary of it for the file, with a

copy routed to his division head and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney

General.

C. EMPLOYEES TESTIFYING BEFORE CONCRESSIONAL COMMITTEES

}. When an employee is requested to testify before a congressional

committee regarding official matters vithin the Department the Deputy Attorney

When the Deputy Attorney General's approv-

al is given the employee is expected to testify freely subject to limitations

prescribed in A respecting open cases and data in investigative reports;

2. An employee subpoenaed to testify before a congressional committee

on official matters within the Department shall promptly notify the Deputy

Attorney General.

In general he shall be guided in testifying by Order 3229

(Revised) and the President's letter of May 17, 1954, cited at the beginning

of this Order.

3. Upon the completion of his testimony the employee will prepare

a memorandum outlining his testimony with a copy routed to his division head

and a copy routed to the Deputy Attorney General.

D. REQUESTS OF CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES FOR THE TESTIMONY OF FEDERAL PRISONERS

Because of the custodial hazards involved and the extent to which

their public testimony may affect the discipline and well-being of the institu-

tion; it Is the rolicy of the Department not to deliver Federal prisoners out

side

the penal institution in which they are Incarcerated for the purpose of

being intervieved or exemined under oath by congressional committees. However,

when it appears that no pending investigation or legal proceeding vill be

adversely affected thereby and that the public interest will not be otherwise

adversely affected, Federal prisoners may be interviewed or examined under oath

by congressional committees in the institution in which they are incarcerated

under the following procedures, and with the specific advance approval of the

Deputy Attorney General.

1. Arrangements for intervieving and taking of sworn testimony

Irom a federal prisoner by a committee of the Congress or the authorized

representatives of such & committee shall be made in the form of a written

request by the chairman of the committee to the Deputy Attorney General.

2. Such written request shall be made at least ten (10) days

prior to the requested date for the interview and the taking of testimony

and shall be accompanied by written evidence that authorization for the

interview or the taking of sworn testimony was approved by vote of the com-

mittee. Such request shall contain a statement of the purpose and the sub-

jects upon which the prisoner will be interrogated as vell as the names of

all persons other than the representatives of the Department of Justice who

will be present.

3. A member of the interested committee of the Congress shall be

present during the entire time of the interrogation.

NW 55201

DocId: 32989783 Page 30

---

## Page 31

=4=

4. the warden of the penal institution in which the Federal

prisoner is Incarcerated shall, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the

time at which the Interview takes place, advise the Federal prisoner concerned

of the proposed interview or taking of svor testimony; and shall further

advise that he is under the same, but no greater obligation to answer than any

other witness who is not a prisoner.

5. The warden of the penal institution shall have complete

authority in conformity with the requirements of security and the mainte-

nance of discipline to limit the number of persons who will be present at

the interview and taking of testimony.

6. The warden or his authorized representative shall be present

at the intervier and at the taking of testimony and the Department of Justice

shall have the right to have one of its representatives present throughout

the interview and taking of testimony.

T. The conmittee shall arrange to have a stenographic transcript

made of the entire proceedings at committee expense and shall furish a copy

of the transcript to the Department of Justice.

E. OBSERVERS IN ATTENDANCE AT COMMITTEE HEARINGS

In order that the Department may be kept currently advised in

matters within its responsibility, and in order that the Deputy Attorney

jeneral may properly coordinate the Department's liaison with 'Congress ano

its committees, each division that has an observer in attendance at a

congrssional hearing, will have the observer prepare a written summary of

the proceeding which should be sent to the division head and a copy routed

to the Deputy Attorney General.

Is/ Herbert Brownell, Jr.

Attorney General

NW 55201

DocId: 32989783

Page 31

---

## Page 32

!

' FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

5/30/75

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

006

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116396)

FROM: OMAHA (62-3439) (P)

SENSTUDY 75

RE BUREAU NITEL, MAY 28, 1975.

SA ROBERT L. TAGG, WHO IS CURRENTLY ON ACTIVE DUTY

AND CURRENTLY ASSIGNED AS SENIOR RESIDENT AGENT, LINCOLN,

NEBRASKA, RESIDENT AGENCY, ADVISED OF CONTENTS IN RE

TELETYPE. SHOULD SA TAGG BE CONTACTED BY THE SENATE

SELECT COMMITTEE, THE BUREAU WILL BE ADVISED IMMEDIATELY.

END.

lAgg

62-3439-6

Searched

Serialized Diu

Indexed

Filed

DEW

with

CRW; skh

(1)

Approved: _

MAG CARD #3048

NW 55201. DocId: 32989783

ESKINEY

ial/Agent in Charge

Page 32

Sent

5:33 PM

Per

U.S.Government Printing Office: 1972 - 455-574

---

## Page 33

IRESS MA CODE

11:45PM NITEL 5/28/75 PLD

TO ALEXA!DRIA

ATLANTA

BALTIMORE

CHARLOTTE

CHICAGO

KANSAS CITY

LITTLE ROCK

FROM DIPECTOR (62-116395)

721.30722

NEWARK

OMAHA

PHILADELPHIA

PORTLAND

PHOENIX

TAMPA

WASHINGTON FIELD

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

PEBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

INQUIRIES MADE OF BUREAU BY SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

CONCERNING A NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES, IN-

CLUDING

THEIR CURRENT WHEREABOUTS, SUGGESTS THEY MAY BE INTER -

VIEVED BY SSC STAFF, EXACT SUBJECI MATTERS FOP INTERVIEWS LIN-

KNOWN. SET OUT BELOW ARE NAMES AND LAST KNOWN ADDRESSES OF

FORMER BUREAU EMPLOYEES AND OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENI OF INCUMBENIS,

ALL OF WHOM SSO HAS INQUIRED ABOUT.

EACH OF THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY CON- .

ASAC

62-3439-5

SEARCHED .

312A

SERIALIZED 2A

FIEDDEN

MAY 28 1975

FBI - OMAHA.

LA

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 33

---

## Page 34

PAGE TWO

TACTED AND ALERTED THAT HE (SHE) MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE

SC STAFF, SUBJECT MATTER UNKNOWN. THEY SHOULD BE TOLD THAT

IN THE EVENT THEY ARE INTERVIEWED AND DURING THE COURSE OF SAME,

QUESTIONS ARE ASKED WHICH RELATE IO SENSITIVE BUREAU OPERATIONS

(SOURCES, METHODS, TECHNIQUES, THIRD AGENCY RULE, AND ONGOING

INVESTIGATIONS), THEY MAY REQUEST THAT AN FBI AGENT BE PRESENI•

BUREAU WILL PROVIDE AGENT ON REQUEST OF INTERVIEWEE. AS A

PRELUDE TO INTERVIEW, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE MAY, AFTER BEING

CONTACIED BY SSC STAFF, CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

B COLLECI CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION IO ASSIST HIM, INCLUDING •

• OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS

FBI EMPLOYEE. IT IS EMPHASIZED THAT BUREAU'S OFFER OF ASSISIANCE

IS NOT INTENDED TO IMPEDE SSC WORK BUT IS DONE AS COOPERATIVE

CESTURE AND TO SAFEGUARD SENSITIVE BUREAU INFORMATION. CONTACTS

WITH THESE FORMER EMPLOYEES TO BE HANDLED PERSONALLY BY SAC OR

ASAC. IN EVENI THIS NOT FEASIBLE FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED

BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

INCLMBENT EMPLOYEES TO BE ADVISED THAT IF CONTACTED BY SSC

STAFF FOR INTERVIEW, LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION TO BE IMMEDIATELY

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 34

---

## Page 35

FAGE THREE

NOTIFIED IKROUGH SAC.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACI, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED

BUREAL' BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION., IF A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD TO

OTHER OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBI HEADQUARTERS.

ALEXANDRIA: COURTLAND J. JONES, 6607 N. 29TH STREET,

ARLINGION, VA.; ROBERT G. KUNKEL, SAC; BERNARD A. WELLS,

5311 MONIGOMERY STREET, SPRINGFIELD, VA.

ATLANTA: ALDEN F. MILLER

BALTIMORE: ERNEST H. BELTER, 616 EDNOR ROAD, SILVER SPRING,

MARYLAND; STERLING B. DONAHOE, 2813 SPIRAL LANE, BOWIE, MARYLAND;

ROBERT H. HAYNES, 205 NORTHMOOR DRIVE, SILVER SPRING, MARYLAND

CHARLOTTE: JOSEPH A. SIZOO, 84A PINE CRESCENT, WHISPERING PINES,

NORTH CAROL INA

CHICAGO: OLGA CIESA, 10499 S. INDIANA AVENUE, CHICAGO,

LLINOIS

KANSAS CITY: BILL D. WILLIAMS, SAC

LITILE ROCK: JOHN J. CREAMER, JR., ASAC

NEWARK: JOHN J: CONNOLLY; RIJA AGNES AMBROSIO,

1604 JOHN STREET, FORT LEE, NEW JERSEY; RALPH I!. BACHMAN,

NW 55201- DocId: 32989763 Page 35

---

## Page 36

*

PAGE FOUR

61E NORWOOD DRIVE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY; KAPL L. BROUSE,

§BURRINGION GORGE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY.

ОМАНА: ROBERT L. TAGG

PHILADELPHIA: JOHN B. MEADE

PORTLAND: LEO B. APP, JR. EDGAR O. INGALLS

PHOENIX: MILDRED E. RISK, 11830 113TH DPIVE, YOUNGIOWN, .

ARIZONA

TAMPA: MICHAEL J. ROZAMUS, 6599 GULF DRIVE, HOLMES BEACH,..

FLORIDA

"FO: JAMES J. GAFFNEY; ELMEP. L. TODD

COPY TO ROME, WITH ITS EMPLOYEES NAMED, BY MAIL:

END

WA PG ONE PARA ONE LINES 5&6 GARBLED GA .

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 36

---

## Page 37

FOUR

NORWOOD DRIVE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY; KARL L. BROUSE,

5 BURRINGION GORGE, WESTFIELD, NEW JERSEY•

OMAHA: ROBERT L. TAGG

• PHILADELPHIA: JOHN B. MEADE

PORTLAND: LEO B. APP, eR. EDGAR O. INGALLS

PHOENIX: MILDRED E. RISK, 11830 113TH DRIVE, YOUNGTOWN,

ARIZONA

TAMPA: MICHAEL J. ROZAMUS, 6589 GULF DRIVE, HOLMES BEACH,

FLORIDA

WFO: JAMES d. GAFFNEY; ELMER L. TODD.

COPY TO ROME, WITH ITS EMPLOYEES NAMED, BY MAILO.

END

WA PG ONE PARA ONE LINES 586 GARBLED GA

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 3T

---

## Page 38

+ 100900-

NR036 WA CODE

4:53PM NITEL 5-22-75. PAW

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT.

COMMITTEES, ITS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACI YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN ONE RECENI INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECI COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE DURING 1970.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALSION PERSONAL CONTAGI OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACI, BY TELEPHONING BACK IO COMMITTEE.

WLESS INFORMAIION IS OF A, PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION: FBIHQ MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED •

IND

42-5437-41

SEARCHED.

IROXED

SERIALIZED.

MAY 2 0 1975

EBI-OMAHA

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 38

Createsmer

Kayton

---

## Page 39

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via _

TELETYPE

FBI

Date: 5/2/75

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

URGENT

(Priority)

of.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

FROM:

OMAHA (62-NEW) (P)

SENSTUDY 75.

RE BUREAU TELETYPE, MAY 2, 1975.

FORMER SA JOHN J. QUINN WAS CONTACTED BY ME PERSONAULY

AND ADVISED PER INSTRUCTIONS IN RETEL. HE WAS APPRECIATIVE

OF ADVANCED NOTICE RE POSSIBLE INTERVIEW AND STATED THAT

HE WOULD DESIRE AN AGENT BE PRESENT IF SUCH INTERVIEW

OCCURS. STATED HE WOULD PERSONAULY CONTACT ME IF HE IS

CONTACTED BY STAFF MEMBERS.

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

END.

62-3439-3

EJK: pag/skh

(1)

Approved:

Special Agent in

Charge

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 39

Herse

MAG CARD

1#30330

searanod B

00

Seria od

Indexed.

Sent n

Pempa Fant

GPO: 1970 0 - 402-735

---

## Page 40

4.

Ma 50299950 TELETYPE

NR 038 WA CODE

635PM URGENT 5-2-75 WGM

TO ALEXANDRIA

BALTIMORE

NEW HAVEN

NEWARK

OMAHA

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

ENSTUDY 75 .

• CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN

CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY

INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES. THE SENATE SELECT .

COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS ALREADY INTERVIEWED SOME FORMER

EMPLOYEES. NEWARK TELETYPE APRIL 30 LAST "ADMINISTRATIVE

INQUIRY; 1964 DEMOCRATIC PARTY NOMINATING CONVENTION,

ATLANIIC CITY, NEW JERSEY," REPORTED ADVICE FROM FORMER

SPECIAL AGENT JOHN P. DEVLIN THAT HE HAD BEEN INTERVIEWED BY

Sic Advised fr

62-3439-2

SEARCHED_

SERIALIZED C

INDEXED

_ FILED_

MAY 2 - 1975

1940

FERAL BOATA: 30099780-

Page 40

malary

---

## Page 41

• i"

VIA EXCIFHERED TELETYPE

PAGE TWO

MICHAEL I. EPSTEIN, SSC STAFF MEMBER, CONCERNING DEVLIN*S PART

IN FBI'S ACIIVIIIES AT DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION, ATLANTIC CITY,

AUGUST 22-28, 1964.

SET OUT BELOW ARE NAMES AND LÄST KNOWN ADDRESSES OF FORMER

BUREAU AGENTS ASSIGNED TO SPECIAL SQUAD AT ATLANTIC CITY,

AUGUST, 1964. EACH OF THESE FORMER AGENTS IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY, ewete

CONTACTED AND ALERTED THAT THEY MIGHT BE APPROACHED BY THE SSC

select

cormittee

STAFF. THEY ARE NOT, REPEAT NOT, TO BE ADVISED OF THE AREA WHICH

•MAY BE COVERED IN ANY INTERVIEW OF THEM BY THE SSC. THEY SHOULD,

HOWEVER, BE TOLD THAT IN THE EVENT THEY ARE INTERVIEWED AND DURING

THE COURSE OF SAME, QUESTIONS ARE ASKED WHICH RELATE TO SENSITIVE

BUREAU OPERATIONS, THEY CAN REQUEST THAT AN FBI AGENT BE PRESENT.

CONTACTS WITH THESE FORMER AGENTS TO BE HANDLED NALLY BY

SAC OR ASAC. IN THE EVENT THIS NOI FEASIBLE FOR JUSI CAUSE, TO

BE HANDLED BY A SENIOR SUPERVISOR.

IMMEDIATELY AFTER CONTACT, RESULTS SHOULD BE FURNISHED BUREAU

BY TELETYPE IN ABOVE CAPTION. IF A FORMER AGENT NO LONGER IN

YOUR TERRITORY OR TEMPORARILY AWAY, SET OUT LEAD IO OTHER OFFICE

IMMEDIATELY WITH COPY TO FBIHQ.

NEWARK SHOULD INCLUDE RECONTACT WITH DEVLIN FOR PURPOSE

NW 55201 DocId:32989783 Page 41

---

## Page 42

PAGE THREE

INDICATED ABOVE AND ALSO FURNISH BUREAU ANY INFORMATION DEVLIN

MAY HAVE FURNISHED YOUR OFFICE IN ADDITION TO THAT IN YOUR TELETYPE.

•ALEXANDRIA: HAROLD P. LEINBAUGH, 1643 NORTH VAN DORN,

ALEXANDRIA. WILLIAM P. GEORGE, 8338 WAGON WHEEL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA •

BALTIMORE: DONALD G. HANNING, 18 OXFORD STREET, CHEVY CHASE

NEW HAVEN: HOBSON H. ADCOCK, 65 GLENBROOK ROAD, STAM FORD,

CONNECTICUT.

NEWARK: LEO THOMAS CLARK, 1421 ATLANTIC AVENUE,

ATLANTIC CITY. JOHN PATRICK DEVLIN, 39 BENNINGTON ROAD,

LIVINGSTON, NEW JERSEY. HOWARD J. WILSON, 30 CAMPBELL ROAD,

SHORT HILLS, NEW JERSEY.

OMAHA: JOHN J. QUINN, IOWA LAW ENFORCEMENT ACADEMY,

JOHNSTON, IOWA.

• END

IJS FOR THREE TELS

FBI OMAHA CLR

- NW 55201 DocId: 32989783

Page 42

---

## Page 43

VIA ENCIPHERED TELETYPE

1R074 WA CODE

11:00PM NITEL 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERIAINS TO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

PERATIONS WITH RESPECI IO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIEW CURRENT AND 'FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE, SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEWED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED. PULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSIST AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECI TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS. ARE FULLY

104

£-75

ASA

# 4 Supr

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783 Page 43

63-3433%-

SEARCHED.

DEXED/

SEKIALIZEO VE FILED.

MAY 2 - 197.5

FBI-OMAHA

Saraly the

---

## Page 44

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACI LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECI CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

RECD 2

FBI OM CLR AND TKS PF

NW 55201 DocId: 32989783- Page 44

---

