# docid-32580599

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via :

TO:

FROM:

RE :

FBI

Date: 9/14/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - (REGISTERED)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-1130)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

Fisur revealed that ROSSELLI's car was at his

apartment garage on the morning of 9/13/63 for the first

time since 8/28/63 when he left Los Angeles for Las Vegas,

Nevada.

LA 4268-C and LA 4396-C* have furnished no

information that ROSSELLI has been in Los Angeles since

8/28/63.

JOCH WALTERS, PCI, advised that on 9/11/63 MAURICE H.

FRIEDMAN's secretary at

the New Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas

called the Beverly Crest Hotel, Beverly Hills, California,

and made reservations for two rooms for FRIEDMAN and ROSSELLI

ior 9/11/03. ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN came to the hotel or

9/11/63 and ROSSELLI stayed there the night of 9/11/63.

FRIEDMAN told the hotel to hold ROSSELLI's room for the night

0f 9/12/63 and add the charges to FRIEDMAN's bill; however,

the room held for ROSSELLI was not used.

re

The Las Vegas Office advised on 9/12/63 that

ROSSELL, MAURICE FRIEDMAN and IRVING LAFF,

the latter two

eing part owners of the New Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas.

have been observed nearly every afternoon for the past week

at the Desert Inn Country Club in Las Vegas where they were

usually playing gin rummy.

During the three days prior to

9/12/63 a man named LEO KIMBERLY was observed with ROSSELLI

and FRIEDMAN.

No background information presently available

regarding KIMBERLY.::

REQ-49 92-3267-

519

- Bureau (REGISTERED)

HFD/bJe

FOI XE:

2 SEP. 16 1503

Approved: - 14190.0

53 SEP focial Ment in Charge

1963

Sent

_M

NW 45945 DooId:32580599

Page 1

---

