# docid-32180938

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10233-10148

RECORD SERIES :

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-43-286

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: RUDD, ELDON D.

TO: SAC, DL

TITLE :

DATE:

11/23/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, ACT, RUSS TRIP 1963, RUSS SPK ASSCO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased -NT 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

, ww 33244 DocId: 32180938

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-105-03

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, DALLAS (89-43)

FROM :

SA ELDON D. RUDD

seeret

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIOAPTOE

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF RIA INFORMATIONI

IN THIS DOCUMENT. CAB 3

11/23/63

9803 RDD/(SK

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

ASSASS INATION OF PRES

ASSAULTING A FEDERAL OFFICER

KENNEDY

Declassify on DADARE JFK

secured front WINSToNM

View of the highly confidential source

Involved and may not be disseminated outside this Bureau.

Attached are a series of photographs taken on 10/11

63 of an individual believed to be an American and

possibly identical with the person who had previously telephonically

identified himself as

AEA OSWALD leaving the Soviet Embassy in

Mexico City.

CIA has

advised that the photographs are classified

* secret and should be kept in the Bureau's possession at all times

and not turned over to police authorities.

CIA has further

requested that the photographs

and information furnished be

utilized for lead purposes only.

отт,

On 10/1/63, a person calling from the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City, to the Soviet Embassy, and speaking very

• bad Russian,

identified himself as LEE OSWALD and advised

the guard, OBYEDKOV,

at the Soviet Embassy that he had previously visited the Soviet

Embassy on 9/28/63 and had spoken with Consul VALEREX WLADIMINOVICH

KOSTIKOY.

The individual calling asked if anything new had been

received regarding the telegram which was sent to Washington.

guard left the phone and came back shortly and

nothing

had been sent

Shortly following this call an

ihdividual who

appeared

American and who is the

subject of attached photographs

entered

the Soviet Embassy at 12:16 p.m. and departed 12:22.

With regard to the tapesfutilized in recording pertinent

telephone conversations referred

to herein, CIA has advised that

these tapes have been erased and

are not available for reviewe

GRANTONY"

N2

HARDEN

OD2T SHE B

(4)

3- Dallas

1- Mexico City

EDR/Wvm

(105-3702) Delayeree 54

Massifled by

hand)

casis of hate mists str

arguals Retired

To Milfred

WXT. BY 3408

. E' SON

LATE OF REVIDW

11•2543

Secret

89-43-28

(4)

NH 53244

DocId: 32180938

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE BE CIA INFORMATION

ENT:

IN THIS DOCUM

4OK

EXCE

IN

<82100/97

Secret

SAC, DALLAS (89-43)

SA ELDON D. RUDD

11/23/63 JH

9883

05128/3023

5/24193

Classified by

Declar

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

ASSAULTING A FEDERAL OFFICER

ALL INFORMATION CUNTAINEL

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Chief, and HERBERT MANEL

me collowing annoyee, mas

secured from WInsToN.

Mexico city station of CiA

is classified secret in View of the highly confidential sources

involved and may not be disseminated outside this Bureau.

(tached are a series of photographs taken onf10/1/

and{10/4/33 of an individual believed to be an American and

possibly identical warlie person who had previously telephonically

identified himself asclEl SWALD leaving the soviet Embassy in

Mexico City.

CIA has advised that the photographs are classified

secret and should be kept in the Bureau's possession at all times

and not turned over to police authorities. CIA has further

requested that the photographs and information furnished be

utilized for lead purposes only.

On 10/1/63, a person calling from the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City,

to the Soviet Embassy, and speaking very bad Russian;

identified himself as LEE OSWALD and advised the guard, OBYEDKOV,

at the Soviet Embassy that he had previously visited the Soviet

Embassy on 12/28/63 and had spoken with Consul VALEREY WLADIMINOVICH

KOSTIKOV.

The individual calling asked if anything new had been

received regarding the telegram which was sent to Washington.

The guard left the phone and came back shortly and

nothing

had been received yet but the request had been sent

Shortly following this call

appeared

to be an

American and who is the

subject of attached photographs

entered the Soviet Enbassy at 12:16 p.m. and departed 12:22.

With regard to the tapes futilized in recording pertinent

telephone conversations referred

to herein, CIA has advised that

these tapes have been erased and are not available for review.

3- Dallas

(89-43)

1- Mexico City (105-2702) (Delivered by hand)

EDEV wm

(4)

gasified bie / 259

CLASS. & FXT.

BY

390

1-2

4. 22,3

11-23:83

Exempt from CDS, Category.

89-43-3

Date of i

eclassification

Indefinite

5178

COTT,

DATE UN REVIEV

DIRK/es 8/20/80

Secret

NW 53244 DooId: 32180938

Page 3

---

## Page 4

10

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

(K 710/97

IN THAS DOCUMENT.

toR

EXCEPT

IN

SAC, DALLAS (89-43)

Secret.

11/23/63

JFK

aSS3RDD KS/L

8-1793

SA ELDON D. RUDD

5/244/93

Classified Av

Don/

MAN ON MADRAS JEK

LEE HARVEY OSWALLO

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

ASSAULTING A FEDERAL OFFICER

following information was secured from WINSTON M. SCOTT,

HERBERT MANEL, employee, Mexico City Station of CIA,

is classifted secret in view of the highly confidential sources

involved and may not be disseminated outside this Bureau.

(5)

ttached are a series of photographs taken on (10/1,

and 220/4/153

of an individual believed to be an American and

possibly identical with the person who had previously telephonica.

identified himself as alrE SWALD leaving the Soviet Embassy ir

Mexico City.

CIA has advised that the photographs are classified

secret and should be kept in the Bureau's possession at all times

and not turned over to police authorities. CiA has further

requested that the photographs and information furnished be

utilized for lead purposes only.

On 10/1/63, a person calling from the Cuban Embassy,

Mexico City, to the Soviet Embassy, and speaking very

bad Russian,

identified himself as LEE OSWALD and advised the guard, OBYEDROV,

at the Soviet Embassy that he had previously visited the Soviet

Embassy on 4/28/53 and had spoken with Consul VALEREY SLADIMINOVICH

KOSTIKOV.

The individual calling asked if anything new had been

received regarding the telegram which was sent to Washington.

The guard left the phone and came back shortly and

nothing

been received yet but the request had been sent

Shortly following|this call U

Individual.wi

appeared

AIL. INBORMATAOA CUNTAINOD

to be an American and who is

subject

of attached photographs

DERSIN IS ONCLASSIFIED

entered the Soviet Embassy at 12:16 p.m. and departed 12:22.

(8)

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

With regard to the tapesfutilized

in recording pertinent

telephone conversations referred to herein, CIA has advised that

these tapes have been erased and are not available for review.

DUHERWISE

3- Dallas

(89-43)

1- Mexico City (105-2702) (Delivered by hand)

ED&/ wVI

(4)

crassified by

1859

Exempt from CDS

•Sate

tory

89-43-286

CLASS. * EXT.

BY 3908

1. 3OM

- FOIM

• 2_2,3

DATE OF REVIEW

2342

8/20/80

Date of Declassification

50g/m

ndefinite

5/5/28

secret

HH

53244 DocId: 32180938

Page 4

---

