# docid-32291420

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10207-10196

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-405

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/11/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

CIP, GAMBLING, FISUR, WINFREY, HENRY CLINTON, JHD

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32291420 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Transmit the following in

Via

A IRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/11/63

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 3/4/63.

RE: HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, ak&.

IGA

(DL 162-95)

ITWI (DL 165-61)

On 3/5/63 DL-170-C (DL 137-1566) advised that

WINFREY had a new location in Dallas for his bookmaking

activity and was using telephone DA 8-1198. An immediate

check with R. A. BURROW, Chief Special Agent, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas (protect identity) ascertained

this phone was installed 2/26/62 in apartment 102, 1041 Knob

oak street, Dallas; in the name HARRY C. WILSoN.

On 3/6,7,8/63

Bureau Agents observed WINFREY's car parked at this apartment

On the night of 3/7/63 Bureau Agents observed W INFREY

this apartment house at about 6:15 p."., proceed to the

downtown.area of Dallas where he picked up a woman appearing

WINFREY took this woman to

& restaurant in the Tower Courts Motel, had dinner, and then

took her to his apartment on Knob Osk Street.

3-Bureau

1-Dallas

(162-95)

i+Dallas

(137-566)

1-D@118s (162-109)

I-Dallas

(166-84)

1-Dallas

(162-129)

1-Dallas

(162-208).

1-Da 1195: (762-1)

]-Da11as

(137-1306)

1-Dallas - (94-47)

1-Dallas

(92-292) 5: 196

1-Da11ag" (162-223)

REG. 28

.;?!:

1-Dallas (162-142)

1-Dallas

(165-61)

1-Dallas

(94-55A-SUB)

RMB : sah

137/2-2-12<405

EX-2U1

61 MAR 13 1963

Approved:

Sent

Per

& Special Agent in Charge

KL NAP 27.1027

NW 45760 DocId: 32291420

Page 2

Cs

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

house on 8th Street, from memory. COOPER Claiwed that he

had heard COX was a bookwaker working for LITTLE. COOPER

stated he would cooperate with Buresu Agents in any way

possible and would attempt to obtain COX's new bookmaking

phone number as soon as possible.

COOPER stated he was

quite sure

COX had furnished his, COX's, telephone number

to other customers at COOPER's club in order that these

customers could place bets with coX.

By letter of 3/4/63 the Little Rock Office furnished

Dallas the results of an interview with FRED HARPER, Hot

Springs, Arkansas. Previous investigation had ascertained

Dallas. HARPER claimed to Bureau Agents to have known

CoX for many years and that COX would visit Hot Springs

during the horse racing season and would stay at a motel

that HARPER managed. HARPER stated that based on comments

made by COX, HARPER

was of the opinion COX was a bookmaker

and furnished the names of 6 Dallas individuals st&ting that

he, HARPER, was under the impression these individuals

were placing bets with coX.

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL

and Deputy MORGAN on 3/8/63.

RE: GAMBLING ACTIVITLES

DALLAS DIVISION (DL 162-1)

On 3/7/63 PCI L

(DL 137-1306)

advised

• that there has been

a recent trend

at the Redman

Club, 3109 W. Davis, Dallas, under the direction of operator

DON FULTON,

in which the poker games being played there

no longer have & five dollar limit but are being played

on a no limit basis.

PCI stated that the previous week

& no limit game had

been held at this club which lasted two

days and two nights and at which there were times when as

much as five and six thousand dollars were on the table.

Informant stated that several Dallas "pros" are now coming

to the club and identified these &s EDDIE TOM GREEN, JIMMY

VOURHAS, and GEORGE W. OWENS, JR. Informant further stated

OTHER 4

3

NW 45760 DocId: 32291420 Page 3

---

