# docid-32297700

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10476

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-30067-92

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/06/1959

3

JOP, WHEREABOUTS, ASSOC, RES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

HH 53130

14

DocId: 32297700

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

8/6/59

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTER

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

- REGISTERE

(Priority or Method of Mailing.

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-30067)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-45664)

JOHN PIrTMAN,

SECURITY MATTER - C

00:LoB Angeles

Bland

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSWIEY

DATE 10-6-94 BYSp8-mac, rude

Re Los Angeles letter to Director dated

7/30/59, captioned

'JOHN PITTMAN, SM-C;" and San

Francisco airtel to the Director

with dual captions,

"MARGARETE ADLER PITTMAN, IS-C."

on August 3, 1959, LA 3064-S orally

advised SA JAMES W. WOOD that informant had

seen JOHN PITTMAN at the home of WILLIAM TAYLOR

on July 14, 1959 under circumstances that suggested

to Informant that PITTMAN was probably then staying

at the TAYLOR home.

WILLIAM COTTLE TAYLOR resides at 2302

Wellington Road, Los Angeles, California, and 18

a Key Figure of

the Los Angeles Office.

1s employed as a shipping clerk at ChiiarenToR

i done a to starts res Angeles, lle

California.

LA 3420-s orally advised SA WILLIAM R.

WHITE on August 4, 1959, that he had not seen JOHN

3-Bureau (AM REG)

1-San Francisco

(100-1465) (AM REG)

1-New York (100-88368)(AM REG)

1-Chicago (AM REG)

2-Los Angeles

(1 to 100-30439 WILLIAM

RAP: elg

(8)

REG. 33

00-310862-92

•sH: 19348

Agent in Charge

53130

DocId: 32297700

Page 2

EX 109

10 AUG 8 1959

Sent

_ M

SUBY:

---

## Page 3

109

LA 100-45664

PITTMAN for some time, and he did not belleve that PITTMAN

was living at the TAYLOR residence at the present time,

Informant knows TAYLOR-quite well and belleves he-would be-

aware if anyone were staying regularly at the TAYLOR home.

LA 366g-S orally advised SA THOMAS W. DENHAM

that he had known that PITTMAN attended

a "people"S worla" benerit dinner, held on June 28, 1959

at 2001 South Curson Street, Los Angeles, California.

PITTMAN's attendance at this meeting has been corroborated

through other informants.

iphor 1 те 08

LA 360jS stated he believed

he could determine if PITTMAN were Living at the tarLon

residence or it he was in Los Angeles, although it might

take him a little time to do so as he did not want to arouse

suspicion by showing too much interest in PIttMaN.

on August 3, 1959, SA ROY ANDREW PETERS

contacted Mr. NORMAN SCOTT, Typographical Union, Local

174, 1426 South Broadway, Los Angeles, California, Who

advised that they had had no information concerning

PITTMAN since he terminated his employment at Mel

Hedrick Company, 2029 Venice Boulevard, Los Angeles,

California as previously reported. SCOTT Will advise 1f

he receives any information regarding PITTMAN.

On August 3, 1959, SA ROY A. PETERS conducted

a pretext interview at the Childrens'

2858 West Pico Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, where

WILLIAM COTTLE TAYLOR Is employed as a shipping clerk, on

the possibility that PITTMAN might be working there.

The pretext was that of inquiring for a

fictitious company in that locality.

SA ROY ANDREW

PETERS had a chance to observe both

the office and the

Shipping Department at Childrens' Music Center, and

PITTMAN was not seen there.

SA ROY ANDREW PETERS conducted a surveillance

at the TAYLOR residence, 2302 Wellington Road, Los Angeles,

California on August 3, 1959, between the hours of 4:30

p.m. and seven p.m., but PITIMAN was not observed to

return to the TAYLOR residence during those hours, although

both TAYLOR and his wife were observed at their residence.

-2-

HH 53130 DooId:32297700 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 100-45664

lies ois

On August 3, 1959, Mrs. GLORIA STATION, 2301

Wellington Road, Los Angeles, was contacted by-SA ROY

ANDREW PETERS, and she stated that she had not observed

anyone answering the description of PITTMAN at the TAYLOR

residence. She was furnished the description of PIttMAN,

and was recontacted again on August 6, 1959, but she. had

not seen PITTMAN or anyone answering his description at

the TAYLOR residence.

All security Informants in the Los Angeles

area have beenaalerted regarding PITINAN, and 1t 18

belleved that LA 3064-S, LA 3420-S, or LA 3663-S will

be able to determine 1f PITTMAN 18 now In the Los Angeles

area.

Los Angeles will continue efforts to determine

1f PITTMAN 18

• In Los Angeles.

civ

19'1

..?:

HH 53130

DocId: 32297700

Page

4

---

