# docid-32310686

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10306-10095

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-84051-37

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN, A.

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE: 12/22/1965

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

NRO, THEFT, STOCK CERTIFICATES, ASSOC, TELCAL,

PURCHASE, SECURITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC ADMIN PAGE

w9.1

1H 45946

DocId: 32310686 Page 1

---

## Page 2

0 10

UNITED STATES (

:RINMENT

Memorandum

A FROM

SUBJECT

.. Mr. De Loach

A Rogeth

FRANK DIOGUARDI

NORMAM ROTHMAN

THEFT OF $2, 034, 651.25

DATE

December 22,

1965

1 - Mr. DeLoach

- Mr. Wick

Mr. Coll

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Malley

- Mr. Shroder

1 - Mr. Schmidt

OSTOCK CERTIFICATES

GOODBODY AND COMPANY

NEW YORK CITY - VICTIM

NTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

STOLEN PROPERT'! - MAJOR THEFT

ч.!'

file.

a con man, has contacted the New York üffice

and advised that he has been in contact with an individual who states

he is in a position to secure the above securities if

can locate

a buyer.

Two Agents from the New York Office and

were to

ly to Miami, Florida, 12-22-65, and an pttempted buy was to be made

the evening of 12-22-65. The departur of the Agents and was

delayed awaiting further instructions liu. subject Rot'inan, who was

to contact L

at the airport in New York at 7:30 p.m., to perfect

arrangements for a meet.

The iw individuals involved, from whom

* the buy is to be made, are Frankie Dioguardi, also known as Ecankie

•Dig, and Norman Rott, man. I is noted that Dio is the individual arrested

TE-21-65, in conn action with the seizure of 209 pounds of heroin by

rarcotics agents. He was expected to be released on bond 12-22-65.

At 8:10 p. I., 12-22-65, Supervisor Arthur Nehrbass, New York

Office,

telephonically advised a call had been received at 8:0a p.m.,

12-22-85, from in individual who stated that he was calling for Rothman.

The caller advised that Rothman would be tied up and unavailable untij

Star 11n m

12-22-85, after which time, he, Rothman, would call

The caller further advised that the deal was still on

and the bonds were available, but that delivery cannot be made until

alter the holidays. He did not elaborate on hont-y84051- 31

to whether he

meant after Christmas or New Year's Day.

JGH:hw

SU JAI N2 196

(=

-..?0

DID SS6H4 M

paucui et FBIHQ

14/07/11

MCT 235

651

NW 45946

DocId: 32310686

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

RE: FRANK DIOGUARDI

Supervisor Nehrbass advised that Miami had been

apprised of the above facts and they were pulling out their

installation.

supervisor Nehrbass further advised that in the event

the ll p.m., contact between [

and Rothman produced any

material change of the above lacts, he would immprilately make

the information available to the Bureau. Otherw ,e, he anticipates

sending a detailed teletype to the Bureau the morning of 12-23-65.

He advised that he would attempt to resolve the use of the word

holidays in the ll p.m., contact to determine when Rothman can

make delivery of the bonds.

ACTION:

OTHER 4

Nore. For information.

ADDENDUM:

Supervisor Nehrbass advised at 11:50 p.m.,

12-29/85,

had received a telephone call from Nor man Rothman

atter 11 p.m., 12-22-65, in which the conversation on the part of

Rothman was guarded due to the place from which he was calling.

Rothman stated that tie "stuff" was intact and ready to be delivered

I but that "they" did not want to close the deal until Tuesday, December

28th. Rothman made reference to the fact that Monday, December 27th,

was a bank holiday in Miami, Rothman advised that he would

fam a public telephone booth at 8:30 a.m., 12-23-85, in

which he could discuss tils matter in greater detail.

New York will

submit results of contact between

and Rothman by teletype

11 12-23-65.

2

87÷9

1.138

NW:45946

32310686-Page

---

