# docid-32373015

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/8/2017

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10268-10011

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 80T01357A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE: HELMS HEARING DUPLICATE - VOLUME IV, COPY 7 OF HELMS HEARING.

DATE: 01/01/0000

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53216 Date:

06-08-2017

DUPLICATE

VOL IV, COPY 7

UNIT INDEX

HELMS HEARING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

JFK4: F12: 1998.05.13.17:55:33:140031 : DUPLICATE OF VOL IV, COPY 1 OF HELMS

HEARING IN JFK3, F4 WHERE DOCUMENTS WERE INDIVIDUALLY PROCESSED. THIS

COPY WAS UNIT INDEXED.

v9.1

HH 53216

DocId: 32373015

Page

1

---

## Page 2

104-10268-10011

C

S.A.Stern/aw/3-27-64

Bir. Rankin

Mr. Ster

File3+

C/t

XAAZ-36392

Parch 27, 1804

1O

TrOM

Fir. Rankin

S. A. Stern

SULTECT: CIA FLIO OR OStaLi

REPRO UCTION

PROHIBITED

Today, Friday, Narci 27, 195%, I nct at CIA headquarices with

li. Rocca to revier the CIA filo on IcC Harvey Orrala.

Fic file

contains those materials funishca to us proviously by CIA. In

eudition, It contains the folloving watcrials:

Die.

Cable icports fron the CIA station in liesico of lorender

22 pra 23, 1953 relating to photogranho of a porson uno led visitca

the Cuban and Soviet Inbassics in lexico City during Octobici mu

Novenber 1953; and reports on these cables fumished on lovember

23 by CIl to the Sccret Service. These messages are accuricly

pasphrased in the attachncats to tho CIA menorandun of March 24,

1954 (Cormission Document 1674).

B; a

Cable of October 10 fion CIA Mesico City ciation to CIA

kazaguariers

reporting on Osvala contact aù Soviet Embassy, and

October 10, 1963 message fro CIA hoanators to Moxico Civy stalion

i background inioration on osvald..

Feese mossages are accuratcly

reported la the CIA nacoranoum of January 31, 1904.

I did not r'evlew any materials later than Novener 23, 1963.

Hir. Rocca also showed no the "printout" of the references to

Ostrald documents in the CIA electronic data storage syston. Thcre

was no iton linted which we have not been wiven cither in full text

or paraphrased.

then I cvidenced an interest in the CIA oloctronic dats

processing system, lic. Rocca said that he would arrange a detailed

explanation at a future visit.

IP/DI

TSAVEL PROGRAMS

HASTRACT

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

1P/2B

Tron Fals

CKI

RECORD COPY

201-0289248

0003572

PAGE

COPY: NO.

HW 53216 DocId: 32373015 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10268-10011

MACHES

REPRODUCTION

"PROMPTED

MEMORANDUM FOR: AIT. So 100 Bunkta

SUBJEET:

Iatorersation Developed by ClA on tha

Actlutty ai Los FATTOY OSWALD tO

Mexico Cly, September 27 80

0020009 3. 1963

REPRODUCTION

0487 19, d991

p gerry regarding

153.

the perted September 28 18 Orteber

2. The socond paragteph o your letter feises a queatien

sith regard to reparis on current aspocra al inveetigation la

Mexico, or concerning lenican leade 1a the OSWALD case.

specifically, that paragraph perras to sider to speciative

intormantos provided the Vaits House by Jose l LASACA

which criginated with Samadar DIAt VERBON CLA Las

Bothtag to aid to the decalled tarustigation of this soaktes

condested by the Federal Brents of lnestigarlos, We

saunt that the abnatiasion is a roady la possession,

111 be in tho peer futuro, ol she detaddo al lhe dutcoro

that tenantigation

So. GIA lo cooped

so lone to cooters le en clan

CIA densloga ariginal, subitantire

PROBITI

Dongraded per

In ThE 3r00 /201

tea mong

and

MAsocitories

31/08

JUPY 78f8

DONACES AND

81UE DRO/TSCO

0003573

1N 33216

DocId: 32373015 Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10268-10011

AD

METRODS INVOL, 50

REPRODUCTION

to rappEs tus netalla to the torralasion concuersent

2 57178.

ever la mado avallabla to the Gomis PROMIBITED

4. Tes following repiten ara leyed to the numeration ol

your lottor al Febraary 10:

lo Do bro nos la a posttion ta espaly coples al

sologrars asne beimsea the sortes Embasaios ta

•Fashtagsos and Mexico Cay.

Bo.

Iranalationa si tha tma pollos iserrogatlan

TOPUSIS-O! SILViS DURAN Ara being formariad to tha

Conmianion untes separats copar.

Esor all the evidence na hand, tre dedaco that

OSWALD visitad tin Cubas Coasulato la llantea Cisy su

chee' de tho dayo inertioned.

thase possistillies. The warding

RETRATAS Of ELIVÃA DURAN and

ester las initial veit, and that shis lates visit sas dn

tso alternona si a day on watch the Cubas Connal calo

atosed the Serrbet Gunsulate abera OSWALD's visa

probles. This may woll bare been 28 September, bus

we cansot ha certaia a tils conciaston..

Ve do sal buss ubertez Cubas Consulate

dating his Septenster-Otober 1963 tlatla Srais da

BEaternento dá Silvla DURAN, ano colla concluido thet

Atos al that time and which she lonicoi

de Fresident Kennedy.

187908

COPY 70/8

1102000

PAGE

COPY NO.

de ser 2

0003574

HH 53216' DocId: 32373015 Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10268-10011

SUCH

TRIVE SOURCES AND

We do not tini &i moni be di

peractleo, su far as te bRos.

• Wa DOlOVE LA BIViR LURAN 's sestersis ta

WALD IRon no ono la Cuba sezEs literalty thas, al

thts woald mean that as see thare could sponsor lir.

vouch fon biss, or insura thai la woald not secare i

priatte charga. On tua stber hasd, the ramari ef the

Savier atticial moall peers sa lmply that tha Soriois had

NO SETRONA IACONS DI OSTIANO, al lOASI in MeNisA, tE

futured tha sories official mes talling the traib.

REPRODUCTION

•Whas OSWALD Fanart by his

Io meas 80 Alesico whilo he

ARUS LIE

from Ner Orleans to Terat, a0d

D5Ty Texas formarding addrosa

Cales be give first te the Caban Consulate.

thon miataid as largos, and linally recavered from Cibas

Consulato filon po ho conid paos il to the Sartet Consniato.

It could alsa be that ho was talking about dis lerico City

hotal addrosn which ha raight bare momentarily forgottea

whits at che Soviet Consulato.

9. The Gaban Consulata and Cuban Embaasy la

Mexico City ate separato offices located la separate

Gobes afiloias parting let.

comected oatballdinge.

20. We surtalse that the raforences la OSWALD's

1 Morerabor letter la a sana trno had since beeu roplaced

187408

COPY, 76/ 8

0003575

PAGE

COPY NO.

1N 33216

DocId: 32373015 Page 5

---

## Page 6

104-10268-10011

MEPRODUCTION

1963. four dayo before the aasasainasios.

boan in slexied for bighteen years and & was i

PRIT BITE

so sarly a8 September 1969 Piat AZCUS was to be

replaced. He replacement did arstro in senterabes.

AIGUR waN echedaled to leave is October but dil nas

Leave 5x811 19 Novieraber.:

We do nas lew tits migil dave told OSWALD that

AZEUE dI say other caban bad been or ma so bo seplaced.

bus to speculato last SilVia DURAN on some Soviet aficial

sighs have mextioned it il CSWALD corsplained 2b013

AZEUEr altercation with bit.

100

We hare no slattional infarraation on OSWALDis

tulties da ilentes City, Tila pars of the investigation

wal Bureau on Investigation

All 01 DIN BORATOS DATO bEGA

matica but aoso has bees

TIE NOR ANtI-GASTRO PALSONS DE

what ta rogard do tast iniormation.

120

We can only greas why Sibria DURAN deacribed

OSWALD as a blonde. Ferbapa his completion saarmot

Highs to her, compared with thas of moet Latin Arpericans.

When she wan arrested. aha had not sees OSWALD 101

about tus months, but apparently she had noted him as

a blonde la bez Conenlar records.

REPRODUCTION

Richa

Deputy Director fon Plans

Distribution:

Oxiginal & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

1 • C/CI

X-C/CI/R&A

1 - C/WH/3.

COIR&A RGRoccasie/18 Feb

pepared by C/WH/3.)

187908

COPX, 70f8

nary 1964 (Para & based on draft

0003576

PAGE

" COPY NO.

NN 33216

DodId:32373015 Page

---

## Page 7

104-10268-10011

SPATCH

WH Division

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiaf of Station, Mexico City

ZRIAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

REPRODUCTION

"PRORIBITED

Please transmit the attached envelopo to Fletcher M. KNIGHT oaly.

Willard C. CURTIS

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

зівст 63.

Attachment:

Eavelope

REPRODUCTION

PROMBITED

Distribunon:

3 - WHI, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA -22390

CLASSIFICATION

DATE :

25 October

HQS FILE NUMBER

201-

0003577

PAGE

COPY NO.

1N 33216

DoeI4+32373015

Pate-7

---

