# docid-32303300

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10283-10312

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 62-75147-42-122

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SL

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/22/1958

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

BBA, EMP, TEAMSTERS UNION, HG, ASSOC, SUBPOENA, TEST, SENATE

RACKETS INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

' Unclassified

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32303300

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wider the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

-Office Memur

Um • UNITED-STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

8/22/58

FROM

SUBJECT:

/ SAC, SI. LOUIS (92-263)

OG.I.I. F.

INFORMATION CONCERNING LABOR

RACKETEERING NOT WITHIN BUREAU'S

JURISDICTION, CRIMINAL RACKETS ACTIVITIES

On August 22, 1958, SL 1130-0 advised SAA HOWARD D.S:

C. KENNEDY that on August 12, 1958,

Union official, st. Louis in company with JACKpOSEPH, St. Man

Louis hoodlum and one of this Office's Iop Ien Hoodlums,

and an Italian individual, identity not known, at the

Teamsters' Headquarters Building, Oth Floor, 1641 South

that CAMI, from

whom HAROLD JOSEPINGIBBONS reportedly purchased Local

several years ago for the sum of $36,000.00, which

has been described as

"severence pay,!"

has been

subpoenaed

to appear and may have appeared before the Senate Rackets

Investigating Committee,

Washington, D. C.

Local St.

Louis newspaper recently indicated that CAMI intended to

appear before this Committee where he would testify.

The informant was

unable to determine the nature

of the contact between CAMI, JOSEPH. and the unidentillec

Italian individual but he stated they appeared to be ir

intimate conversation.

They were at the time in a smal

office located on the oth floor of the Teamster's Building.

Informant advised that to his knowledge JOSEPH has no

official connection with any Teamsters local although in

the past JOSEPH has appeared

at Teamster's meetings where

apparently a strong arm element was desired.

The informant has advised that he believes

CAMI is scheduled to appear before this Committee on Monday,

August 25, 1958.

sAUL 26-19582

Bureau

- St. Louis (1-92-263)

- 92-176 - JACK JOSEPH ALEXANDER'

ANTI-RACKETEERING) : (1

HCK: ps

(5)

no 122-40-122

155.23

5' AUG

: 261958 .

333

59 SEPT

2. 1958

FLEM

DocId: 32303300 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SL 92-263

SL 1130-C on 8/20/58 advised that AL GIARDANO

on the previous day told him about hearing some conversation

between several persons, possibly union officers, although

he apparently could not recall their identities, withn

the past two months of how ROBERT BERNARD "BARNEY BAKER had NO

once returned to St. Louis in a great rush reaving a of

his luggage in a hotel room at some unknown place where

BAKER had been visiting. GIARDANO indicated to informant

that the tenor of the conversation was that BARNEY BAKER

had been forced to leave this hotel or motel where BAKER

had been staying, possibly to avoid arrest.

GIARDANO further commented that he had heard some

comments about a telegram that had been sent to BAKER at

Teamsters Headquarters presumably referring to this

incident in which the sender had apparently Jokingly

acquired of BAKER whether he had committed a murder.

Informant advised that GIARDANO was rather vague

In talking about this incident, but that BAKER apparently

had through some unknown cause

been forced to leave

clothing in a hotel room or at a motel where he had been

staying.

The informant was of the opinion that this

incident occurred in 1953 or 1954, while the Teamsters

were still occupying headquarters at 1127, Pine Street,

St. Louis, Missouri.

SL 1130-C has also advised AL GIARDANO has

Missouri by PHIL REICHARDT, International teamsters

Union appointed officer of Local 405.. He said that

REICHARDT had, according to GIARDANO, offered GIARDANO

$40.00 to "take care" of the informant. He stated that

GIARDANO said that REICHARDT had offered him $40.00,

indicating that if the informant was badly beaten up,

he possibly would be "taken care of for good" due to

stomach ulcers suffered by the informant.

The informant,

It will be noted, is Président of Local 405, taxi cak

drivers union, St. Louis. GIARDANO refused

to co-operate

with REICHARDT.

close associate of JOSEPH COSTELLO, prime suspect in

GRENAP Investigation, but that CANNELLA had refused.

- 3 -

983-10315

DocId: 32303300 Page 3

---

