# docid-32989680

## Page 1

File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

Sub A-I

HH

155288

DucIđ: 32989680

Pare 1

---

## Page 2

Mr. I. I. Leavitt

S. F. Phillips

1 = Mr. A. J. Decker

Attn: W. L. Bailey/

L. W. Brady

6/30/76

1 - Mr. I. H. Leavitt

2 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

SENSTUDY 75

This memorandum provides for filing of

voluminous newspaper and wire service clippings relating to

the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities (SSC).

Since inception of the SENSTUDY 75 Project, we have

accumulated 9 thick folders containing newspaper and wire service

clippings plus some additional material such as magazine articles!

and other public source data. Material maintained in tickler

folders,

Sub A file was never opened.

Retained material is in

general, but not precise chronological order.

With the end of

the SSC mandate and issuance of its final report, it is

believed we should now provide for the final and

permanent

retention of this material.

This matter was discussed by writer with Messrs.

M. I. Bailey and L. W. Brady of the Records Management Division

on 6/29/76 and it was

agreed that the most practical manner of

handling would be to file this material as a bulky enclosure

behind file and that no indexing would be necessary. Further,

that the

original ot this memorandum be filed in the main

SENSTUDY 75 file, 62-116395, and a copy be filed in Sub A

to 62-116395 which should be opened as a repository of it alone.

The presence of a copy of instant memorandum in the Sub A will

serve as a permanent flag advising where the material is actually

filed.

the writer.

13-1182221

NOT RECORDED

46 JUL 15 1976

-

62-116395

(1) - 62-116395-Sub A

SFP:lek (6)

167SEP 29 1976

DocId: 32989680 Page 2

---

