# docid-32326708

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90056-10015

HQ

183-737-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: SF

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/28/1976

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

y9.1

DocId: 32326708

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy) Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

510

CODE

-TELETYPE

NITEL

TO SAC SAN FRANCISCO (183-114)

I - Mx. Peterson

1 - Mr. Smith

JUNE 28, 1976

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

SALVATORE

AMARENA, AKA, ET AL, RICO.

RE SAN FRANCISCO AIRTEL TO THE BUREAU, JUNE 22, 1976.

CONCERNING THE MICROPHONE INSTALLATION AT SE 8677 PC'S

APARTMENT, SAN FRANCISCO WILL MONITOR ONLY CONVERSATIONS

TO WHICH SF 8677 PC IS A PARTY AND WILL NOT MONITOR CONVER-

SATIONS WHICH SOURCE CAN ONLY OVERHEAR.

THE CONSENT FURNISHED BY SF 8677 PC COVERS ONLY

CONVERSATIONS TO WHICH SOURCE IS A PARTY, AND FURTHER THESE

ARE CHE ONLY CONVERSATIONS TO WHICH THIS INDIVIDUAL CAN

CONSENT TO A MONITORING.

SAN FRANCISCO WILL FURNISH THE BUREAU WITH A SUMMARY

OF CONVERSATIONS MONITORED ON A WEEKLY BASIS.

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval..

Rec. Mgnt..

Spec. Inv..

Training

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

NOTE: SF 8677 PC is associating regularly with LCN figures

in the San Francisco area.

These individuals frequent the

source's apartment in San Francisco and Attorney General

approval has been obtained for a consensual microphone to

be placed in the source's apartment.

San Francisco advised

that they intend to intercept and record any conversations

to which the source

is a party or which she can overhear.

San Francisco being

instructed to monitor only conversations

to which the source

is a party.

Reply coordinated with

Robert F. Peterson,

Legal Counsel Division.

PDS :rdw

RECOR

(4)

HECEIAED

Did US INVESTIGATION S

JUN 30 1976

GVUNICATIONS SECTION

Min BE 13 6% JUN 2 & 1976

TELETYPE

Fxa8

Atladon

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32326708

Page 2

---

