# docid-32977076

## Page 1

Date

Page

:07/08/98

:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

NSC

145-10001-10204

272

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorda

Collection act of 199:

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

10-04-2017------

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE : A. BASIC ACTION PLAN INSIDE CUBA-- PHASE I

DATE: 03/00/62

PAGES : 11

SUBJECTS : OPERATIONS, PURPOSE, CONSIDERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

• RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

REQUIRES CONCURRENCE OF

DATE:

MAR

2016-

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

54214

DooId:32977076

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPERATION IN. CUB A

MARCH

Establish three "'pathfinder" agent

operations in key areas selected

by CIA.

OPERATION IN CUBA

APRIL

Establish up to five more agent.

operations in key areas

selected

by. CIA.

BASIC ACTION PLAN

INSIDE CUBA.

PHASE I

(March, 1962)

PURPOSE

Explore operational conditions and re-

quirements. Report on potential and

active resistance elements and situation

for-exploitation by resistance teams. Lay

groundwork. for bringing in additional

agents and teams as conditions warrant.

PHASE: II.

(April-July 1962)

PURPOSE

Report on resistance potential and lay:

groundwork for additional agent opera -

tions...

TOP SEC

THE

CONSIDERATIONS

Agent operations must stay alive, make :

useful contacts and communicate securely

with CLA. Risk to the personnel is sub-.

stantial due to lack of intelligence, but

mission is essential to planning and

operations.

CONSIDERATIONS

These additional teams should provide cur-

rent reporting on major Cuban areas, so

broad political action program can be

planned., Risk to teams will continue high,'

but mission is essential.

HH

54214

DocId: 32977076

Page

2

---

## Page 3

OPERATION IN CUB A

APRIL (cont.)

'Voice" öf Cuban movement goes

on the air.

MAY

Re-supply agent operations as

necessary.

BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE. II (cont.)

PURPOSE

Establishes vital psychological assur-

ance to people that a movement exists

to overthrow the regime.

Deliver supplies to satisfy needs

developed by agent operations, if

valid.

CONSIDERATIONS

Preferably, the "voice" should be

from mobile transmitter inside Cuba.

Broadcasts can be brief ones at first:

identifying music, slogan, and short

news.

News to include reports on

"resistance"' acts, taking credit for

all sabotage.

As daily broadcasts

are established, "criminals against

people" should be named and promised

swift justice, two names per broadcast.

If operational judgment dictates, trans-

mitter can be aboard submarine for

early broadcasts, as a strictly tempor-

ary measure.

It is vital to take risks

by having it inside Cuba; a second

transmitter and crew should be moved

in if the first is lost.

The agents will have to prove to local

partisans that outside support is a

reality.

Thus, as arms, ammunition,

and equipment,. etc., are needed to

equip resistance groups, we must be

able to respond effectively to these needs.

Maritime and, as feasible, air re-supply

will be used.

This capability will have

to expand as resistance is developed.

Doc 0.54.116

LacE

---

## Page 4

OPERATION IN CUBA

By June establish 12 more agent

operations in key areas selected

by. CIA:

JUNE

20

By: June, introduce three resistance

teams in areas under initial "path-

finder" surveillance, if situation is

favorablo.

the is

Establish bases for guerrilla

operations.

A. BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE II (cont.)

PURPOSE

Mission is the same as for previous

"'pathfinder" operations.

This will test acceptance and use of

the more highly trained teams that

must guide development of the popular

revolution within Cuba. This also

will check emphasis and timing of

program from viewpoint of Cuban

situation.

To have focal points, with some viability

to stockpile for defensive needs and for

future attack operations.

TOP. SECRET

CONSIDERATIONS

These will be the last agent operations

infiltrated into key areas from the out -

side. Further expansion by "pathfinders,

after these teams are in, can be done

from groups inside. It is likely that

some of these last "pathfinders" will be

replacing casualties.

Very minor resistance actions by im-

portant population elements such as

labor must be tried and groundwork

laid for broader anti-regime program

leading toward firm uprising program.

Realism of political platform can be

tested.

These bases are to be selected after on-

the -ground surveys by the teams inside

Cuba. Some may exist already. These

will also be logistical bases, for caches

and stockpiling of arms and equipment

to be used by the resistance. ' The p. a..

teams will need not only supplies for.

active resistance, but also should be

able to provide some welfare aid (such

as to families of resistance members,

families affected by plants shut-down by

sabotage, etc. ).

Page

54214

Docid

---

## Page 5

JUNE (cont)

OPERATION IN CUBA

Establish clandestine leadership

headquarters.with means to com-

municate with all resistance

elements.

Collection and use of psychological

action material.

JULY

By July establish up to 5 more

resistance teams in areas prepared

by "'pathfinder'' operations, as

operationally feasible.

Basic organization of underground

in vicinity of airfields and communi-

cation.centerg.

BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE. II (cont. )

PURPOSE

Organize internal direction and con-

trol of the popular movement.

To provide documentary and photo-

graphic evidence of tyranny of regime

to awaken world opinion and fan fire

of revolt inside Cuba, for use by sup-

port operations and by resistance teams

inside.

Mission is the same as for the first

resistance teams (All e above).

To prepare the means for sabotage

against military aircraft and key

communication links of the regime's

security forces.

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

Cute

CONSIDERATIONS

Leadership will have been emerging and

this is about the earliest date possible

to establish a clandestine headquarters..

it should be of a bare, field type, in the

securest area possible. This can be -

come the meaningful source of political-

psychological actions, to develop Cuban

will to resist and fight.

The resistance teams will use this material

with timeliness inside and get it back out-

side so that it can be exploited fully in Latin

America and elsewhere, building official

and public opinion in support of the inside,

operation..

Experience of first resistance teams must

be considered in preparing these additional

teams for operations.

Security of person-

nel is very important at this point, as the

operation expands.

This requires ground surveys, selection

of sites for caching of sabotage supplies,

and recruitment of local underground, in-

cluding members of military and communi-

cations employees. Popular support must

be prepared by resistance teams.

54214

DocId: 32977076

Page

---

## Page 6

OPERATION IN CUBA

JULY (cont:)

Expand infiltration points along

coasts.

Low-key resistance sabotage, as

a continuing and expanding program.

BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE II (cont.)

PURPOSE

To obtain maximum security for

stepped-up infiltration.

To demonstrate public disaffection

with the regime and give examples

which will prompt similar actions

by many others.

To build attitude

and morale of the Cuban people to

become activists for their cause

against the Communist dictators.

eww.

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE.

CONSIDERATIONS

Original "rat-lines" need to be expanded

into a functioning "underground railway"

to pass more infiltrees into interior.

Means of quick alerts to danger, delaying

defenses, multiple routes, coastal watchers

and receivers need to be organized and

activated.

Actions under resistance team guidance

can include:

"Runs"'on State food and clothing stores

and ransack where possible (prompting

similar acts by those who want to get

enough to eat and wear).

Sugar in gas tanks of public buses and

local official cars and trucks.

Ice-picking tires.

Removing receivers from telephones.

Harassing telephone calls to officials.

Throwing stones with threatening notes

into homes of officials.

Disrupting rail switches and sand in

gear boxes of trains:

Swiping spark plugs and distributors

from vehicles.

Housewives complaints on shortages of

food, medicine,

doctors, etc.

Public contempt campaign against Cubans

in regime's puppet organizations, includ-

ing effigy burning.

Page

---

## Page 7

OPERATION IN CUDA

AUGUST

m. Final check on resistance elements

in Cuba.

AUGUST

п.: Symbolic work slow-down.

or stick

A. BASIC ACTION PLAN

- PHASE M

(1 August 1962)

PURPOSE

To have a final look at the situation

and at the means in place before

giving the signal to initiate actione

leading to full-scale revolt.

PHASE IV

(August - September 1962)

To give workers a feeling of parti-

cipating in the popular movement,

without immediate reprisal.

.TOP

CONSIDERATIONS

This is a last-minute pause, to be cer-

tain that the resistance has a possible

organization in key places which will

act when needed, that the significant

portion of the Cuban people are in

sympathy with the aims of the move -

ment and will join in when given the

chance, and that the movement will be

able to gain an area of Cuba as its own

against the regime's military forces,

as a minimum

12 August is the anniversary of the over-

throw of dictator Machado. The resist-

ance should link the Castro-Communists

with Machado and call on workers to lose

one hour by slow-down methods on 12 Aug:

to commemorate the overthrow of one

dictator. Workers should be asked to

give either one-hour by slow-down of

one act of sabotage.

The "Voice" of the

movement should thank them the next

day for their splendid response (to shame

those who didn't participate by making

them feel alone).

54214

DocId: 32977076

---

## Page 8

TOP SiC

BASIC ACTION PLAN.!

PHASE IV (cont.)

PURPOSE

OPERATION IN CUBA

AUGUST (cont.)

Symbolic signs painted on walls:

"'Machado One''

To commemorate the downfall of

one remembered dictator and give

a symbolic pace to the resistance.

By August, have actions to

penetrate and subvert the regime.

To weaken and frustrate organized

actions against the popular move-

ment.

Cuban paramilitary teams infiltrated

to bases in the hills.

To provide a trained guerrilla cadre

upon which to form guerrilla units."

Guerrilla bands activated in key areas.

To build a military striking force for

the popular movement inside Cuba.

TOP. SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSIDERATIONS

Timed with the symbolic work slow -

down (A IV n above).

Spaced a few

days apart, the signs should have lines

added to them to read:

"Machado One

Batista Two

Castro Three."

These are actions on officials of the

regime, including the military and the

police. Some should be defected in

place. Others should be defected and

helped to escape to the outside world

to tell the inside story of the regime's

tyranny, to evoke world sympathy with

the freedom fighters.

The paramilitary teame must be capable

of initiating minor harassment and reprisal

actions, as well as organizing and training

guerrilla units. Popular support is

essential.

Recruits will be. coming in after the sym-

bolic harassment and reprisal actiong.

They will be screened, organized, and

trained for guerrilla action. The regime's

security forces can be expected to be very

active.

Anti-tank and anti-aircraft tactics

are necessary. Increased popular support

is a must in this phase.

54214

DocId: 32977076

Page

---

## Page 9

OPERATION IN CUBA

SEPTEMBER:

Commence expanding underground

to every locality in Cuba.

Step-up of guerrilla actions.

Activate larger-scale. "black" opera-

tions on bureaucracy, as penetration.

assets permit.

Start entry of volunteer "freedom

fighters! from Latin America and

elsewhere.

TOP SECRET

A. BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE IV (cont.)

PURPOSE

To have a truly revolutionary organi-

zation throughout Cuba.

To season the guerrilla forces with

larger scale raids.

'To overburden the regime's adminis-

trative machinery by false orders,

increase the amount of paper work

by adding new forms, issue regulations

to discredit superiors, and sew sus-

picionand friction between bureaus.

To let the Cuban people know that

they are not alone in their struggle

against tyranny, by the physical

presence of foreign "freedom fighters."

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

CONSIDZRATIONS

The guerrillas are the open arm, but the

popular movement must have mass sup-

port, which requires intelligence collec-

tion and clandestine activists in cities

and towns throughout.

They will surface

when the revolt needs open support.

Actions will be to seize police files, kid-

nap officials as hostages, capture local.

militia arms stores, increase road

ambushes; and destroy fuel supplies and

transport by raid actions.

This will require intensive preparation,

including defection in place of some per-

sonnel, intimate knowledge of current

procedures within bureaus, and means

of producing material which can pass as

official.

A "Marti Battalion'' might be formed for

foreign volunteers. Recruits from Latin

America, from refugee groups (such as

Hungarians, Poles, etc.), and Americans,

need a controlled means of entering the

good fight.. Some veterans of the Huk

campaign could be a gesture and a practical

one.

54214

DocId: 32977076

Page

---

## Page 10

OPERATION IN CUBA

SEPTEMBER (cont.)

w. Attack on the cadre of the regime,

including key leaders.

Operations liberating political

prisoners held by regime, if

possible.

Start blocking assistance from the

Communist Bloc.

HOT DRONE DENSITI

A. BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHAsE lY (cont. )

PURPOSE

To express popular anger against the

regime's tyranny and to give harsh

reality to the listing of criminals

against the people."

= Delete last senteNce oN

6(1)(c)

To liberate prisoners for impact upon

popular support of guerrillas and

general resistance program.

To shut off Bloc assistance to

the island of Cuba by all possible

means from the inside.

CONSIDBRATIONS

Tate should be 2 "apecial target!

herer Gangster elemente might provide

the best see mutent potential for achons

agaton: police-Ce ofacials.

Blog sechr

targete C

considered.

nts should be

This requires a physical survey to obtai

precile inormation on feasibility of bri

ing guarde, breaking way open to release

prisonere. encourage priponeng to harre

hope that tyranny or regime will be over

E rom these hard facte,

dectrong con be made on which prison or

prizone should be targete for liberation

chions.

Bold operations are called loug

the paychological impact will be very high.

While appealing to the free people of the

world to help shut off Communist ship-

ments of arms being used to kill the Cuban

people, the resisting agait act op te liver -

ing Bloe supplies, denying harbors by

mining, sabotaging transport aircraft,

destroying B loc supplies in warehouses,

and acting against Bloc technicians.

16

LAST

SENTENCE

Page

10

54214

---

## Page 11

OPERATION IN CUBA

SEPTEMBER (cont.)

Commence active sabotage. of

military aircraft,

ground trang-

port and communications.

OCTOBER

General strike by the Cuban

workers.

Anti-regime demonstrations:

Declaration of the revolt.

A, BASIC ACTION PLAN

PhASe IV (cont.).

PURPOSE

to hamper. the ability of the regime's

security forces to strike at the resist-

ance movement as it emerges into

more open guerrilla bands.

PHASE V:

-(FIRST TWO WEEKS; OCTOBER 1962)

To make public the popular support of

the militant revolt,- signifying the pass-

ing from underground to open rebellion.

Same purpose as noted above (A V a) for

the general strike.

To initiate the hour of decision by

calling on all Cubans for open support.

TOP SECR

ITIVE

CONSIDERATIONS

More sophisticated sabotage devices;

contaminants, etc., should be in target

area by this time.

Strike must tie-up transportation and

communications. The resistance teams

must have set the readinegs of the workers

for this defiance of the regime.

must be available.

Military cells will

-be activated.

Funds will be needed to

help the workers hold on and to bait

defections of groups.

The resistance teams must have set the

readiness of all population elements (youth;

farmers, Church, etc.) to openly defy

the regime. Arms must be available,

including anti-tank weapons..

Military

cells will be activated..

Since the aims of the liberation will have

been publicized previously, this is the

'"go'' signal.: All Cubans and the world

need to hear it.

HH

54214

Docid

•10TA

Page

---

## Page 12

OPERATION IN CUBA

OCTOBER (cont.)

&. : Open revolt by the Cuban people.

Return of Cuban refugees who are

qualified and want to help liberate

their homeland.

Establish a new Cuban government,

which can be recognized by the U.S.

TOP SECRET SENSITIVE

A. BASIC ACTION PLAN

PHASE V (cont.)

PURPOSE

To overthrow the Communist regime.

To start a more open movement bäck:

to Cuba of those Cuban refugees who

are able and willing to risk their lives

in overthrowing the Communist regime.

PHASE VI

(DURING OCTOBER 1962)

To give legality to the moral right of

the Cuban revolt.

CONSIDERATIONS

This is the combat phase, fighting to

take and hold ground.

Cuban refugee ofganizations will be

tested with a "put up or shut up" pro-

position. Those who have ability to

contribute to the popular movement

inside Cuba should be given a chance

to go home and act. Their screening

and infiltration will have to be con-

trolled. It must be a joining-in, not

a taking-over of the inside movement..

- When the popular movement is holding

meaningful territory in Cuba, it should

form a provisional government.

should permit open Latin American and

U.S. help, if requested and necessary.

A military government situation will

exist for the initial period and we must

insist upon realism in this interim

period preceding reasonable civilian

control.

HH

54214

Do010: 32977076

Page

---

