# docid-32397374

## Page 1

--

Date: 12/17/98

Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY • FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+0 104-10433-10057

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

— — —————————

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Record:

Collection Aet of 1991

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-08-2017

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

MEMO: VIEWS OF SIDNEY LENS ON DOMESTIC RACIAL SITUATION

DATE

10/05/67

PAGES

13

SUBJECTS : LENS, SIDNEY

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN IN FULL POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JFK-RH19: F05 1998.12.17.10:13:38:543129: ORIGINAL PREVIOUSLY SANITIZED

DOCUMENT

• ..

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

1H 53216

DooId: 32397374

Page

---

## Page 2

APPEALS REVIES FORM

305

rab -s contains MEmO.

recommended

segregable portions

(b)(1) (6) (3), (b)(5)

( ) Located during the DDO appeals review.

dated i5 Get: 1967

ATTAchmeNtS

But pet port Tongue top bay

of FOIA

() Referred to DDO for review by

Further description, identification, comments, and/or referrals,

etc.

This siemo denied in toto to sidoey

Leres (575-186)

bely ATT. #I meNtions KinG Briefly ON Pf.3.

i RECOMMEND:

Sustain initial denial in toto under exemption(s)

of

ADD exeiption (s)

(3 DROP exemption (s)

Aộ Sustan initial ache

# sanitized version with excised portions

of F017.

( ) ADD exenption

( ) DROP exemption (s)

() Release additional information with excised portions exempted under

() Deny docunent in loto under exemption (s). -

of

(1 Relcase

sanitized version with excised portions exempted under

The exemptions clted above are being claimed to protect the following:

)

Information from i foreign liaison service

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison

Information which some could identify the source

Information portaining to a source

Information pertaining to intelligence methods

Location

of ClA overscas installation

Location

autone nothods

of unachnowledged domestic installation

Name

OF CIA employee

File number

Pseudonym

Cryptonym

Internal organizational data

Name

of FBI agent

FBI file nunber

Privacy of other individual

OTHER

that,

bein

Juring the DDO classification review, this document which was marked

SELRET

wals:

maintained

classifiod

declassified

desensitired

downgraded to

12 IMPDET

C1. BY 012170

91A1

NW 53216 | DocId: 32397374

Page 2: 202654.

---

## Page 3

5 DCT 1967

SUBA. VIE

Da Docestle Racial Situation!

and tibo Her Fallties Coavention

2°

rata that the Black Crucus/cod too CPUSAied Mirtually icectod the CovtIos,

yot the Comunists had lulled to set the Correation a support for a king-spoci

o= soro otto third ticket in the 1958 preaidential clactions, mate tre

Commista vere very enger to obtin.

3*

AERGOVED FOR TELEASE

Dalc

13 MA1У3

57216 DoETa: 12397378 Tage 3

---

## Page 4

reprinod a strong contrer of De latIn Latbor King, labo ba

Ielt hod made sany alstoles la his Chicago vocrations, but vo navertbel23s

"2s a sincera lender wo salatained his chariona over tha black nas009, despite

the senagogãs beberlar of lihe lenders al tha salier black errentat groups.

la cay cass,

strongly balleved that King

hail be possibility of playlos a tuare rola of treat inporteace in the black

8.

100

In Bureau my pous the above report to copropriata flald offices

for backgroani Use Onia.

5-19

WN 53216 DocIa: 32397374 page ad above

Boot 7

---

## Page 5

5 OCT 1907

SUBJECT: VISHa

0a Darestle Racial SItuation

and the new follules couvenilon

1.

2.

sata that the Bloc's Caucus/and the lISA dad Mitually recited the Convention,

yet tha forumiats had falled to gat the Coareation's support for 3 Kiry-socis

of some sinor thirà ticket in the 195a maidentlal elactions, inica ite

Communista vare vexy enger to obtaia.

3+

40

5°

Precisialy

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date - 1.2 AUG 1976

5-19

.HN 53216

DooId:32397374

Page 5

(4 !

---

## Page 6

6.

resoniad a strong ander a ir. Matin luther Klag, uno ba

zeli bed made nany bistates in his Chicago operations, but ino nevertbelass

ras a sincers lesder who saintained bis crazisus over the black muses, despite

the demagogio benarior ol the lesters di be analler blaci entrenlat groups.

In acy case,

strongly belleved that Kiag

8./

20.

1' Iho Bureau way pass ube above repart to appropriate fiola offices

for Background Use only.

5-19

1H 53216

DooId:32397374

Page 6

• Boct 70

---

## Page 7

5 OCT 1967

Viera of Sutney Long on Teentic Kacial Semten

cad the Her lolities Convenulon

1. Släty tens vos exonely posstalatle about the present political.

situation in the linted Centes. To boileved that the crowing rocial ebitie

tua bringing about tie bozakup of the facclem Ilberal concendus, revealing

te "cynician sd lopocriay" of toe fmerican rover reructure. He fondered

mother liberal reiors to load of a rolent domestic circe ind Inevitable

mprosalon of black militants and lost liberato od rauled, vors even

I0331013.

te believed that come nort oi vist conspiracy on the right righe

be already underry to destroy puerican Amocracy.

anta that lie Duaes Concus/ond tho CPUSA 23d Virtually trocked Ce ConvenüLon,

get the Commists had talled to soi the Convention's cupport foe a King-spock

on cone other third tickot in the 1950 presidentlal clecttons, thich the

Communists vare very eager to oitia.

Iono paid that colaulve tacial poace bod been taintained in Chicago

Mirong the outer by sarasies bums of noney noving into the pocketa of kao-n

buck nacionallat loaders, jouch gun louders end certain locil foliticians.

this onarntiong to lecy Caicago "cool"

', had boen succesatal, init had 210o

paoduced neil emicten orong ordinary black people who vece boginning to

underotond aù lost wat vent co 2nd to foel abuseit by ouch ironinent.

Iris

islieve thet condiniony wore ouch thet black people in Croego could pot tull

to protest milicantly in the suties, ond perhaps not only curing bot weather.

was klus cosunlty, he maintained, chord moss polideries, despite it

Bivlolous.

accorting to Lona, not one ilgro sniper ven cought of denounced

suring the sumer.

Tros said ho ind been sole to zaintain iairly dood contects ith

Isny legoes in tue cettoes end with black intellectuals, id he seemed to

Dave a falry cole-confident ided of vost vag going on within the block

comundey-

§. le maintained tost vite zudicals in general, bolever, had virtually

no influence inside the chertoes and rat the Daly rachine vas more influential

tina we couresalve tood, the DUSA or the cocialiut lockara Party. llo

June nothing alone raids influence, de cay, bub sold that toe center of blick

nationalion sobirity soned et present in the lest Cantlald aces.

5-109

HH 53216 • Do0Id:32397374 Page 7

FULL SEXE COPY -- DU NOT RELEASE

cLas

LICATOR REVIEN

CONDUCIED UN 287860278

: 3 000 001 0605

---

## Page 8

6. Conceiluo my possiole placi cmairacy ca a cation ide scalo,

Ians thought this tus nonsense. 1i0s botreon coups end locdere hod boen

roported to him as loose, with many feuds botreen them, tons cold. He added

Ghat he bud heard of no international contacts by block nubioraliata, except

the tellinon lotos abroad of aiCe leadero.

7. insis: ronaled a obrong audrer of Deo letin Kunbor Kirs,

Pilo lie

felt had made nny mistakes in bis Culceso operailona, but vao neverthelass

Las a vincere lower to mintalei hus churiona over the mack manas, despite

the dosagogic behavior of the lealers i the shelter biack cbrenist croups.

On the other band, tens tolt that lev. Janes Devel a often cabic end even

Iresponsiola in his acclone. In coy cose, beng coroner believed that King

had die possivility of pluging a incure role of greet Imortance in the black

community.

8. tons said ho had hers noting con the organizers of the scockbol

Conference ca Vietnan, wich nn had aubenued, und wondered it my efforts at

all were belne inule by the Continuing Comictee of the Contesence to develop

peace initiatives.

Ho said bhat. de bad never hoard tron to tablo Anericina

who had meeposed in Suckholm that U.s. and Incin deerlesa Drace rilliants

hold & neetins somawhere in the nose fucure. Lens thought they ind dropped

the Idea, which was to have been concroülzed through him, as cherman of the

American Delegation In Stouxhole, but coudd not underaband wey.

9.

Epening of his ascoelates in the pace loreneut, he cott sost

Stausaton Lynd, clinonst e tender of the coltorial bored of Libestion,

never conaulted hun avout unychlag. Parbage, Lone Colt, Pie vaa Decause

Jjnd zoe very lostlle to eny proposals for clectoral bacon, 1219 1009

vias noto

As for Inve Dollinger, Long odd he cio noc naderstaa mac

Dollinger ung up to these days.

Dollinger, he maustained, had escuned eu

"equivocal sititude" to bbe pacidiot princiales he hod colloved in until

the deata of 1.j. Muate, Jons cald be hod never heard Dellinger explain

hansele or nia projects.

10.

Attached 10 o. hundout of a popes entitled "Come Iconeaks on the

NCIe Conterence" altten by lens, und a copy of a preus release containloa

Ions' suatement on his reburn to the States fron the Stockhole Conferance

on Vietnam, 6e) July 1967.

22. The Ducau my page the above seport to eperoriate lola offices

1'or Dacistound Use Chly. It is requested no alrect notion be taken againat

the subject, on the besin of the contents of this revor lour prior

consultation with this Agency. us costriction may be concidered withdrein

one nonta after tonce's departure icon the baited stobes, although the cact

that these statements vere made by Subject oboda contame to be considered

costolated.

5-19

HH 53216 /DOETa7y239937440Pädetgd above

Borin

---

## Page 9

2.

SOX2 22G 02 002U: FOR CCR0E208

Sidnoy Trend

5430 Hyde

Paste ilor.

00019

The Conference

rao a noble aricape to being aborte coccidion or

Live for sonating terica

in a mon mold,

but dacroreed ratha:

strongly on short teen stratcotes for achieving d

ODe 030112

Believing the novoront

was

still ine. ved to rate a drauntie

national action in the alectosal Licle, vanton to concertrate co

niganising commity minupo as a sort of on goáng Victoon Sunnet.

A second moup felt that 1000 offered an excopticant oppocrucity

foi a broasthionon to hundredo of thousands man gose not vot

aligned with the novenant, and suggested thai in addicion to pro-

toot ard resistance & now

woe sc Procidential

concei-

irating loss on votes and more on sinking roots, contd widen tho

movenent's influence appreciably.

A third group, the Black Caucus,

cynpathized with both pirategies but believed that bofoze a boat

ingful coalition pould ba buile, Black Auericons mast firot con-

centrate on creating their own soparate identity and pover base.

Ine young people plagning tha Conference had four alcernatives

before them:: (a) to bring together solely those to bolieved in

connunity organiring as the concoatration point for the ecat year,

and devolon straingy for accelerating that

to bring

tegather shooe who vanded to cophagine electoral acting to plan

strarogy for the Prosadontial yoor and pachepo cabooc i Pics

idential ticket; c

¿o hold three sinulinneous conferences od

the thace constitioncics ai the Conference and arrange a siruc

inte by which the three groups vould live in one bouse, vith

mutenonous leaderchip and sucucture, but with unchanemy for cal~

and nutral aid when thoue vas agrechont to do go;

(a) hold a single conferones but evolve, as ras dong, a leader

ship which is based en two soir of parties, betrech the comantiy

oscanicors and the electoral wings on the one hand, and becoaca

both of those and the Black Caucus on the other.

The confurence plamoro did a laudatory job of acoming dono.

marie ropiesonintion and donocratic

expression, has it seens to

no that the effort ieflocted an inmasure form of participativo

donocency.

Alternatives (a), (D), and (e) above

gave consid

crably nore hope for a nature participatory denocracy than alter.

miivc (d). It vas clear in advance thai no coomon strategy

would be wroughi oui of the divezgont stratogical.

perspactives

icproscited at the Conference,

and it was

a mistale in call peoplo

together on such a basis. The SDS model was follonce, in my

opinion, too schomatically.

SDS is an

denanization composed of a

single stratum

of the population, the students, who find the NSA

and sinilar noderate

institutiong too confining.

on the

other hand is noi,

airl

will not be for some time, anything bat d

realition of groups made

up of menders of nany stratuns.

task

hare is

nuch nose diffioult,

Euniually the coalition mili

blend into an organization, ini iè vas premiure to think i

could be born that way.

Saragnion Lyud and Pennie Davis tair

NN 53216 / DocId: 32397374 Page 9

---

## Page 10

1:?

cout in

thas recrooty court inter they were recroth foot

cile: can point, magderating do the care getting 0i.

lonen's strike for

Roaca ox Crade Maicoists

fox Reage).

The conticine that Cano pui Do the Conference a Ї9a*O€*O∞*

That it did not disintoncate before being bome Coco mcdis to

the sence of dedication

that rooted angot the 39000 pactac

No matter how angzy cach of us borace aron thas eatint

porni (in all thiee caromeo) there was " godda? dod kaaliy

calication that re tad no place cise do go,

had lo be mentinod no mattee coat the rifficulter

Bat Er the

cool ligi of inmarion it could bo wide for the mechal Board to

crocide: the rcalitica do tae citration:

maroly das 4bare 6979

threr distinct wings to

the honod we built.

There to roch nort

nopo of purvival foe an ache which cantd have three antonchots

cotiono, chordinasing their wont end codlescing oniy those cocoa

ment can

be reacher, than under the present foon. & vould

strongly suggcos that the Board consider soiling my chece: sopar

ain bodies rithin MCNP, a commmity argonizing croco, as elecional

politics group, and a Black organising accup,

each mith its own

Ihe Donor night also considar aoling the Matica?

Mobilization to End the Var in Vietnin,

to becond the fonth anto

cnonous body. • Coalition betwech these four groups would bo prec.

ticed through a small governing boned of mis,

nue fron cach of the

non- Bladi groups and thica

Iron the Mlack, to voc et joins

action vete joint action is foasible, and to join in commos pro.

jects such as raising and allncating monica.

The precond board

is an inpiovenoni over tbe previona one in that di nore acematel!

•reflecis the currents in tne novenant,

But it is not the final

forn; a more viable one can be found along the liner ciggested

heir: I think.

It would he wrong

to emagorato the three lestos

that causod

Friction, namoly the 1a pointo, the rosenar notions?

aid. the:

20,000 Black Canous vot.

the fact that there vas no major 2k

out indicates hou strongly the dolegates wese mited philosoph.

ically and how overriding was the dosize to maintain mity.

the long run, if we build a healty NCt, these ¿cocos wii? be

Foxgotion or maber any by boalthinr foome of collaboration.

But procisely becaloe we hope in coalesce mod fruitsully w

must analyes mistakeo.

It vn0 wong for the Black Carcus 10 12.

oast chat the 13 points be accopied vithout changing a comma;

the chice points

that were in dispute could

cac22y have bean

worked nut to evoryone's satisfcction, partientasty if swor

commitices of the Blacks Caucus ond tia Sicoring Connittoe had sai

down and discussed it for a balá hour.

I am acare of the paycho.

logical overtones bohind this issue

and also more of the problons

within the Black Carcus with those who opposed foznation of tho

coalition altogeila.

Nonetheless we nust weigh this againo: the

loss of credibility

suffored by the

vast najority who voted to

enclorse, say, ALl the

resolutions of the Nevant Black Power Con-

without having road any of then.

Foreman's sococh had

the merit that it

relaxed tensiong botreen Black and Vhite agpsa.

ciably, but it.

was a nistake for him-oven jocularty. 10 integr

duce parts of his spooch as resolutions and vote on then without

dincussion. for instance, tile i favor the boycott of Geno!

notors for doing business with South Acrica, " might have per.

Ferred a boycott agina: Standhed Oil as boing mee aadinafi?.

NW 53216 / DocId: 32397374 Page 194

---

## Page 11

Ma?? to ??! 1? ? 11011 10141100 1111016 10111

mada mintain thi

Lecause of thie amhek

of voice noosed til?

cause de vara blos wie,

Dren nore distarentnt tat the donogot

10ed? by gone the Spoke co this 10020a food the floats

2: could

MA.Gpmr0400 1 20 210126641 C60 4010 bothesold Man Wall

00 9: 0000 10 b0 Cold With thio iad Go Gorlamed aud Falsr

theorie.

1ic0 consi21.0nai06

in the Conference,

miganizens and the Blacks appeal do citiccus the dee cocobie io

radica? plans.

the electoral group, on the osbre borde radicat

itsele, nonetheless muot coppal to bany who ace far nose modezate

No Ical effort was nade to balp this goup in that tok

the nass

notion people-in the Macial

nobilication, for inatcuce-have.

solued the problen through the policy of "son crelusica".

April 15th denonstration included the wbole polition inbou

tron retorn denocchis to lott Involutionaries,

bie non-peelrstnn

iod ao a corcolazy a relatiocly noderate platforn.

wise decision, for I think hisicry proves that radical action is

stynica unless it can dear the liboral constitueney in its dix

Even the Russian Revolution (ox the Ancrican) would here

been inbossible if millions of te collovers of Dau, Hereroiy aad

other nodorates vote not drawn along with Lenin (and in the Anes-

ican Revolution hundiede of thousands of noderate moschants,

Peas and tawers voin draun along wich San Adame and hit Song of

Liberty)e We dirt not make it poscable bore t0 pull, along dith mo

the immerable liberals noving io the left who are looking for

ni king-Spock night have achiered this,

radical delegates, with whon I acce politically, ecocd to con

nicer that there visa wozld beyond the Paluor Menog in wich wa

and tiny ninority.

Tens of nillions are against the var in

Victnan and againgt inciom, but they are opponchis of var and

injustice out of liberal motivations, not radical. ones.

We can

noc win them by sporting phrasco, bus by building beidgose ling-

Spook, perhaps Motiosic-Spool, o: Spock-kes. CoT. Vivian, night

have built such bridges.

I unge the new Board in review

this rat-

ter once again.

Shall noosing it wil!

vp with bridge-bulding toznulas that will make our very

radicalisn infiniicly more effective.

MCMP is now a babe in swaddling clothes, soon hopefully-to begin

walling.

I'm impressod by the fact that the deicgatos left for

home sonovat puazled, sonowna: disappointed, but with a cota?

absence of rancor.

This is a hunanistic staid of mind in vaich

a noveroni can be built.

We nusi not lose the opportunity.

gonious mnchanions for participacion nod leadership nuse be

ovolved now so that tons of thousands, perhaps hundreds of tho

sand's,

can be brought into this novenent.

The coalition did not

muite jell at the Palmer Mouor, but it didn't Ily apart either.

It can be buili.

NN 53216 /PocId: 323973742 Pave 11

---

## Page 12

nilon, dared the collouds dearer today do lie tried death thed

Viother and the baloon? Loortion Road Told deedbold Met Tucker

Lonn, reptoratied to band tore Cobetl me te Collecte Of Porer

clintion, sin the chairma ef the Sheen Aoric dotegatra de the date

national conferanco called lo cia vald iide peter povertres;

The nintoren in no follows:

Tho Morth Viatoon apolochon, With Mon I hold pelrado Callo, Callor

120d no to ariãoo tha Aoricon pullie that choro do only one conditios fas

in birding nocatanitona to cad the vermot may conditions co the Aracten

public has boon led to boliara, tho Unicod Stuton mund onle abon cha loca-

ing of Monta Vincen cal ariono an oighu vard abadaaout to card ottout:

Poo have nimppod tha loabing of Horth Viotnan."

told no, in requirole the baltod Sunton dood not have in ver the dont

"unconditiona?" or "pompont,"

"What no no intomata in," to said,

"in the deod-ording of the

bonbing as tha morlos do coon do boabing ondo saod thiage con follo

Ho did not pin don cha tao it could bolo ine collee do login, bud deplood

Anomicun en de coundo this sode ponicion on nocotlationo vec accom

panad by a toughor aud pain confidont attitado towed tho vera. World-farona

oxporta on Viotar, such do Vailappo Devillota, Procedla forchoot cudlorit

on Viotnam,

told no that shot havon hoord the hit or large Vicketon

confidone or no dodominod for quito a fou yeara.

wIn atricialo told no that thoir confidoaco apringa from a nabor ot

Factora, both policiont cut milituro

Politionilos choy doge leago matbore

ni peoplo to voro promiously ancociatod vith tha Veifiod Buddhiot Glarol!

no forlos hope ce cinding ray colution oscope rich the Foot: cad duo conting

ovor to te in vory compidorallo nunhoroo I may oor thee thie occarto las

boon contimod to no ly a complotoly rollablo coiciove center leadors

on Anarican, weo rocontly rgolo alül cha dop Buddhant Lendero du Getre

doctrivo viciorion in tha loot for concho chion hare coccocod caca 41nd

I... MORE W

---

## Page 13

Plea foreone deed to meddle do Clipe de lied illite

the people mad care ot Coull Asidea fuse do conced delecten Moron tri

In bintow." they mid

ly nonociodo on tho aditorind toned of labambion eagerino, Duvid!

More in lanoi via bad Cought no motion Gilye Ther doid lin that to Vode

had mood lg,000 troogn, of they 14,000 had boon "put out of cotton," end

1o0e audiodo of cho, 8g0 inco at thair diapocal, rony of thou to 200

plodel WaGe bonbo wich the Viot Cong bad rotecbionad into nitron, tha

dufoni of Anarican forco: tore, chono goldloro midg indo poosiblo tho

offonnivo nt tho domlatarlood cond cod forcod the Muse to mithra troops

from the lokong Dalta, thora a Uos. compig had boon projoctad. Dollingoi

vas told: "If they couldn't conguor no nt Junction Sits, hoy can't con-

quor mus ni nll."

Tho Ill loodoro pooortod is our Anorican dolegation that tbo MLE son-

troln 8o porcont of the torritory of South Vioton mad 20 million of tho

l million pooplon Whon an Anorican pald that thooo figuran are much

largor chan thoco indicatod by the Vas. govornoni, the official said thai

tho lie hau copion of all ragoldo which puù tho figure ovon highora

Tho forth Victromono to ppole choud nogolintiono aloo nelú t long

mad frant convornation sittu no on strology Both tho forch eod the Mi,

ho anid, focod a major problem of adjucinoni and scorganication up to

tho coint thoro tho U.Sn arioo roachod 250, 000...j gol, tna improccion

ho condicocod thin a diericar periode Nos," he cast, "vo roo rocsy

For muything rogeraloo of how far cha occalation 5000." He laugliad at

tho proopoci of a Unitod Sintos invoion no tho 2106 paraliot, noar Winh,

cho co-calied thin nock of Verth Violoono Ho scald no: go into dotail but

ho stato! Meet tha Inscod Socio muid got tho luder carpelco" se the vas

if 15 undertosle much actions

Ho tag moro ahrionaly concorod about tho

poolbility do Annicon

bombing of tha dylco, bus ho insistod that linoi hao mado plaanêre tool 100.

Tho. North Viotaonone onld that dooptio the hume cacaalden Mixord

from tho bonbing, loch induotry ond agriculouro in 1965 roco coumatiorally

tron the provione yoarn To "valuo of caginoorkng eutrut," ho cord, "tar

incroacod by 29at pergonta" Do rico barvose, ho clairode vo lone of tho

loat" in liliatorre to may do "otrango" to incitoen caro, to dooletod, bur

.. KORE

IN 53216 DocId: 32397374. Page 13

---

## Page 14

by the Pentagon, tho Worth Vote odo my that have clot done 24050.

Thay doppocuted Meprime olnino of cuccose in booking lan cottag anili

no you diate voica dal cough to bar end catcome fire

ln harruck?" thay natoil,

Tho M??

anachan, in androcolag the Aaaricon dolocattend Bad droy nora

diaparning of lad, offortr

voro true," ho enta, "choro vould le nono of ta lotto tus na you nea

vo'ro growing atrongar ovory doy."

Ho callon to Marten polloy one of "burn ril,, Hill 0ll, dogioy

allo: llo accusad tha lose of porpotrailris.

"hundredo of ladicon," Novor

thologo ho said that imon tho Uoso claims is havo inundod no large mumbore

of viot Cong in a villago li is nountly old aon and childam.

So far ad I Imow ovory menbor of our Aarican dologation van groatly

surprisod by the prione nolf-confidunco of the Viotonoco, They lad nos

oxpoctor ilo the Viotaonora noithoi: boastor nor carmodo

In the private sallen i hold l goi tho inproncion thri this solemnsou

enco vau contina, not rovly to taprood the Conforenco. ButT had tra

avon moro

porvanivo fooling that Horsk Vlodron In particuler

fole that tho

initinilon of nogarintion vonld bo coy aimplo if tha loitod Statoo 10a1-

ly vontad lie tho Forth Voinnoso vont out of dotr voy to unto li cloa

that thoro voro not nany conditiona fo talleo bus a since coco. At onc

point a North Viotnamoro spole in no foin half hour more tha difforonà

"road to socialion" hoing follored by lianoi do neinot all othor cordonirt.

countrloo, cud oê tho considorablo ditcoonco botreon in Viotanaco and

Chinoco charactor

"Don't forgot," ho daid, "ou pooplo ano true 2odasaa-

nlinta."

Ihn impliontion mus cloar that Hanoi had no intontion of becoming

anyond lo puppet,

le neo comindod no thai doupido tha cock thou hãs

country. had foughe a longe bittor van with the Froach, colcaion with

Franco, now woro good.

1W. 53216 / DocId: 32397374 • Page 14

---

