# docid-32205159

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

LBJ

177-10002-10022

PAPERS OF SMITH, NSC STANDING GROUP MEETING, JFK, VOL. 1, BOX 24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

WH

BROMLEY SMITH

Released under the Johr

senation Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

DATE: 10/01/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

NEED SUBJECT ASSIGNED

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY RECORD OF NSC STANDING GROUP MEETING

CLASSIFICATION:

Wholassified

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

DOC. #7

v9.1

HH 53244

DocId: 32205159

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Summary Record of NSC Standing Group Meeting No. 14/63

October 1, 1963 --

• 5:00;P.M.

CUBA

Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald of CIA reviewed the situation in Cuba,

emphasizing that a swing of the pendulum was taking pláce. " Because

things were becoming so bad for Castro momentarily, we should not

overreact and conclude that the Cuban problem was on the way to being

solved.

Several items were discussed:

The Defense Department agreed to review the feasibility

of monitoring planes flying out of Cuba suspected of carrying arms

to other Latin American countries.

2. Allied trade with Cuba -- The Central Intelligénce Agency

will prepare a list of critical items which Canada is selling :to Cuba.

Some of these items are of great importance to Cuba because they are

replacements for outworn U.S. machinery. The list will be sent to the

Commerce Department, which will devise ways of preventing such items

moving from Canada to Cuba, passing through the U.S. in transit.

3.

A proposed Presidential statement on Cuba, originally

suggested by USIA but not yet been made, will be looked at again with

a view to recommending to the President that he comment on the future

Cuba in a forthcoming speech.

4. Joint Chiefs of Staff recommended sabotage actions --

General Goodpaster asked whether the Agency had considered the two

covert actions which the Join't Chiefs had suggested, i.e. printing

illegal currency and dropping U.S. arms into Cuba. Mr. Fitzgerald

replied that CIA had never gotten the Joint Chiefs' suggestions.

Attorney General expressed some concern about whether suggested

Cuban actions were being followed up. (It later developed that the

Joint Chiefs! suggestions had been sent to the Defense representative

on the Special Group who had chosen not to recommend these actions

to the Special Group. Further consideration of the Joint Chiefs'

recommendations will be undertaken by the Special Group.)

SECRE

HH

53244 DocId: 32205159 Page. 2

---

## Page 3

SECRE

2

5. Sugar price program -- It was agreed that this exercise

had been completed and that there was nothing further to be done on

this item.

6.

Economic warfare group -- Mr. Fitzgerald urged the

prompt establishment of a proposed economic warfare group which

would coordinate all economic warfare measures taken against Cuba.

BRAZIL

A draft policy paper on Brazil was circulated to the group but not:

discussed. The Latin American Policy Committee is scheduled to

deal with the paper on Thursday.

Bromley Smith

SECRET

NW 53244 DocId: 32205159

Page

---

