# docid-32332680

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90103-10081

RECORD SERIES: PG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-226-2-73

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

06/29/1964

' PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32332680

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SEGREN

JUNE

) DATE:

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile92-2940

6/29/64

FROM

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/Ga

DECLASSICY ON:

: 25X(1(6)

(JFK)

3/19/98

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka.

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Pittsburgh

Symbol Number

PG 622-0*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone) Microphone (MUTT

Installation)

i. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block

Company, 12 McCandless Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.)

•2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered: The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block

Company, I2 MeCandless Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

3. Location of monitoring plant: Pittsburgh FBI Office, 450 Union

Trust Building, Fifth Avenue and Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization: 1/26/61

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

" 5: Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

No other installations.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

There 1s no tesur involved in this installation.

a.

Ts a trunk line utilized?

b.. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Registered Mail

- Bureau

P1ttsburgh

injv

92-206-4402-73

DocId: 32332680 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1.

PG 92-226-Sub 2

CR

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit Is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult Insert pages. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was

10. could woe inter the ve been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relative to the North Star

Cement Block Company•

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No change.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No requests made.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

None: (costs included in office

rental.)

b.

Give total number of other surveillanc

§ monitored at same plant.

Two units of a teour (PG 177-S*

were activatedion 6/6/62.

•One unit of a misur

PG 180-S%

was activated on 8/23/62.

One unit of

a misur

(PG

685-0*

One unit of

a misur (PG

713-0*

was activated on 6/14/63.

one unit of

misur (PG 722-C*)

was

activated on 3/6/63.

was activated on 5/15/64.

-2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32332680 Page 3

---

