# docid-32164088

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10153-10120

RECORD SERIES: SA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-839-6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Notel .

Caset :MW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

00/00/0000

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 100-32965-4

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/12/1994

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130 , DocId: 32164088

Page 1

---

## Page 2

=

UNITED STATES BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT Botan, TexAs

REPORT MADE AT:

DATE WHEN MADE:

san Antonio, Pesca

7/19/42

TITLE:

CA.AKDs

FILE NO 100-830

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE:

6/3,405/41

REPORT MADE BY:

Jo Go FAILOR

CHARACTER OF CASE:

INTERNAL SECURITY - O

Hohenschildt, AnorTe Sa Von Hohrenschtlat

LILIA PADEO VIUDA DE LARI

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:.

Plaza Motol, La

cantact

pass of

as Cox,

at baro

to Han

1941 GL

Ilecase

from to So

natura found

3, 1942,

i Bo Do Gi

NL408

DETAILSI

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGEN

IN CHARGE

¡DO NOT WRITE IN

100-839-6

іСНБОК

COPIES OF THIS REFORT FURNISHED TO:

5

' • Bureau

3-

Kr. BAEL J. COMMELINX, ARma't,

2

- Bouston

2 = New Orleans

san Antont

DI RAN ARNESTIGATION

ROUTED TO:

РиВ

CRIMINT FLINTING OTTICE: 1839

53130

DooId:32164088

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DETAILS:

AT LAREDO, TEXAS.

MOHRENSCHILDT and woman companion registered at.

the Plaza Hotel in Laredo et 6:12 P.M., June 3, 1941, aB

*. VON MOHENSCHILDT, 109 E. 73 Street,

New York lity and

Mrso Lo PARDO LARIN,

Tiper # 6, Mexdco, Do "Foe They were

assigned to rooms 519 and 518 respectively.

On June 4, 1941 it was learned from Informant

A that a telephone call had been made from room 519 to

telephone # 1749, which is the listing of the American

residence of LOUIS NITISHIN,

1814 Rosario Street. It is

believed that the latter number actually called was

# 590, which is the listing of the Mexican Consulate in

Laredo as it was subsequently ascertained that subject

had contacted the Mexican Consul in Laredo. It wee also

learned from Informant A that Mra, LARIN, about 1:00

Pollo, June 4, sent a telegram to ALPHONSO CASTRO, Lex

ington Hotel, New York City advising that her address

was the Plaza Hotel, that she was going to Mexico the

next day, was very happy and requesting him to call her.

on the morning of dune 4,

WOHRENSCHILDT con

tacted Ao Lo AFRENS, U. S. Immigration Inspector, Po bldge,

in Laredo and requested the name of the l. Se Immigration

Inspector in tharge at Corpus Christi. He did not state

why he wanted this name other than to mention that he

wanted to write him a letter. Mr. AFRENS Informed that

he received a letter from ALFRED R. PERKINS, U. S. Trini-

gration Inspector, Corpus Christs, dated june 3, advisine

tant on the orney heard use to Bot Arena, 10 ;

to Investigate MOHRENSCHILDT who had been reported taking

photographs of jetties and the ship channel at that place.

This Investigation was based upon information furnished

by BILL ELLIS, Justice of the Peace at Port Aransas and

also operator of the Tarpon Inn at that aplace.

ELLIS

informed them that MORRENSCHILDT and Mrs. LARIT were

occupying the same room at the Inn as man and wife..

5A: 100-839-6

123-10150

HH 53130 DooId: 32164088 Page 3

---

