# docid-32319650

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10371-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-K10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: DOJ/CRIM

TITLE:

DATE: 04/11/1972

• PAGES:

216

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, MARK LANE VOL IV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 3; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, A/T, INTERVIEW, LHM, NOTE, PROGRAM, NEWS ARTICLE, R/S, LET, TTY, S/S,

FOLDER

19.1

DocId: 32319650

Page 1

80

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lane

3/ 2/ 68

AIRTEL

Tu:

FROM !

NE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, DALEAG

ABOASSINATION ON PREUTDENT

JOHN FITZGARALD BENITELY

DALLAS, TEXAS, 21/28/69

MISCELIANDODS

' INFORMATION CONCETHING

U0 - DALLAS

(suflle

62-108080)

(87911e 88-75)

88-39>

(DL*11e

49-43) (P)

MARK BONE, BRa.

SM 0 €

00 - WAY ORLEANS

(9u5I10 100-403763)

(NX111€ 100117844)

(8011le

10017630)

100-10070) (HUC)

4/86/54, WILLLaM F. ALEXANDER,

Assistaot District

Attorney,

DalLas

Coaty Diatrtot Attorney'g Office.

Ballas,

Tenas, uns contacted on another savestigative matter by &a

CARL I. CURTIS, SR. Durlag the course of thie contaet, AbeLaNDar

ASIDE LA MARE LANE D00

of any interest

tes

the fil.

Be 0as

Burcau

Now

Oxle2rs

2 - Her Tock

2 - Dallas

62109050) (1118)

106409703)

(2 = 10017689) (R&)

(1 → 88-80)

{1

• 89-75) (1376) (84)

• 100-11784) (1a10)

(1

80-13)

(8 - 10010920)

X76 ting

(11)

DocId: 32319650

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

S0A 00543

advised by SA CURTIS that any FDX interest in LANS was unknown

to him.

ALEXANDER then comented that he had known for several

years that a photograph of LANS as the subject of a masochiat

zite ms in existence and that he (ALIXANDER) has acquired this

photograph recently fron an undisclosed source in New York,

ALEXANDER continued that NARK LANS had been eritteal

of Dallas authorities and the FBI and had caused a lot of

trouble for Dallas authorities. lle stated that dE MARK LANS

should return to Dallas he would be confronted with this

photograph.

mude, with his are aped behta hoto reparty a deploy a his

sox organs being tortured.

A photograph of MARK LANS contained in Dallas files

Tas viewed by SA CURTIS who states that 12 the man in the

photograph exhibited by Ar. ALEXANDER is not MARK LANE, such

Individual beara definito sinilarities to him.

CopieS of this communication are furulshed the New Tork

Office for infomstion as thnt office was formerly the office

of origin in the LAX case and may have sone knowledge of the

extetence of a photograph of LANE as described above.

The foregoing Inforuation is furnished for the informa-

tion of the Bureau,and New York and New Orleans and will not be

mitted an as for dissenination, led, as to disperinate such

SOIOZAATION 10 1S 1010 CONCECT VICA ALAXALOSN TOULA DIVE LO 00

made as he indicated he was exhibiting the photograph "confidentially".

To indicate to ALIXANDER that this bureau had an interest in MARK

LANS 19 sot considered advisable, fansnuch as ALEXANDER waS a

Sonewhat controversial figure in

connection with the investization

concerning the leak of infomation to the press concerning OSKALD'a

diary during the course of the assasolnation investigation.

-2=

DocId: 32319650

Page

3

---

## Page 4

released uter

DATE: 11-14-2017

the John

Kennety Assassination Records Collection Act

-Di

1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

Mot koint

Pacher

CONA

NTIAL

DIRICTOR, FBI (100-409763)

SAC ST HE

ORLEANS

(100-17689) (P)

RARE LANCIAL II VOU

(JONDIS)

NEW ORLEANS

2/9/68

SECRETI

Re New York letter

to Bureau dated 1/30/68,

entitled "MARK LANE, Aka. IS -R (JONDIS)", which

furnished letterhead memorandum sotting forth information

received from NY 5812-S*:(S

_ New

York is of the opinion that any interview

with subject in regard to information furnished by above

source would be unproductive in view of prior uncooperative

attitude displayed by subject to Bureau Agents.

Subject since his

arrival in New Orleans

1s

not known to have engaged in any security type activity and

appears to be devoting himself full time to the assassina.

tion investigation currently being conducted by DA JIll

GARRISON, Orleans Parish.

JACB, New Orleans will not conduct any investiga

tion under the JONDIS Program.

• Bureau (RI)

2 - New Orleans

EJC: Jab

(4)

AESROPRIADE AGENCIE

AND 2

1326

Classion Fr

Deckersit

ALI: INZORKACION CONCATT

HER31:31

CLASSEUIDO

EXCE20 12903 SOWN

OTHEAVI SE

DECLASSIFY ON: 258(62

(JFKS

11/00

CONEOZNTIN

SECRET

DocId: 32319650 Page 4

---

## Page 5

reased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 111 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-500/K68R

DECLASSE 05262136.

[SECRET

MiX.

C.D. Deloach

*HT. W.C. Sullivan

M. W. C. Sullivan

November 7, 1967

Mx.

W.A. Branigan

W. A. Branigan

Mr •

A.W.

Nealo

1

Mr. C.G.

Sullivan

MARK LANE

SECURITY MATTER • C

214326

Classier

Declasily en: GADE4/85

Attached is a nenorandum concerning the subject

which includes derogatory bacisground data together with

additional intormation received from Shamrock our sensitive

penetration of soviet intelligence, regarding his relationship

with the soviet Coumlitoe for State Security KGB

delivery to Mrs. Mildred

Stegall at the White House, and

the Attorney General.

BACKGROUND:

Wart Lane, & 40-year-Old attorney, has maintained

lepo offices in New York City since 1953.

He has & long

history of afiillation with Communiet Party Iront groups,

and in 1952 held & position of Administrative Secretary of

the New York Chapter of the National Lawyers Guild which has

been cited by the House Committee on Un-American Activitles.

He is a former member of the New York State Assembly, 1960-62.

On December 30, 1964, Lane married & Danish national

and has been residing abroad since that time.

He received

considerable publicity regarding a personal investigation he

was conducting concerning the assassination of president Kennedy

which resulted in the publication of a book on August 15, 1966,

entitled "Rush to Judgment."

At one point during the Warren

Commission inguiry, ho was retained by Mrs. Marguerite Oswald,

mother of lae Harvey Oswald.

In 1962 the Office of the District

Attorney, Queens County, New York, conducted an Investigation

of him for alleged sodomy furnishing the Bureau with statements

and photographs. concerning perverted sexual acts of a sadistic

and masochistic nature committed by lane.

Enclosure

100-409763

CGS: 11c :eco

(6)

118167.

Seat

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UACIMSSIFJED

PACEFT WEED SA0Z21

OTHERWISE

CONTINUED - OVER

8

(SECRET

DocId: 32319650 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

Menorandon to Mr. N. C. Sullivan

RE:

MARK TAITE

100-409763

During our contaets with Shawrock,

internation tant the Soviet Comittee for Atate Security

established a trusted rolationship" with Mark Lase.

Hie

Soviet contact who was duents zeuswas догоу pionee

by the United Hattons Seeretariat, New York C1t7 on Potails

concerning this contact with Soviet intelligence

in attached memorandu watch should be

mina ted to

the White House and the Attorney General, (R)

ORENDATION:

32 you

d tor

delivery

to

Mrs. Mildred

Stegall of the Valte House

• and the Attoraey General 1s a

senorandun including pertinent derogatory data tezarding

(a) Lane to there ea

additionas data received frenjour

concerning his contacts si! bored

intelligence, 16)

178032

SECRET

DocId: 32319650

Page

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

1

Mr. C.D. Deloach

1

-

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

1

• MI. Branigan

1

- Mr. A. W. Neale

November 7, 1967

Mr. C.G. Sullivan

CLASSIFIEN BY 5668 500/KSR

DECLASSIC

J5K15H6-97

MARK LANS

Mark Jane, born February 26,

1927, Brons, New York,

is an attorney who has maintained legal offices in

New York City since 1052.

He has a long history of

affillation with Cosmuniet Party front groups.

In 3952

ho was Adninistrative Secretary of the New York Chapter

of the National Lavyers Guild which has been cited by

the House Comittee on Un-American Activities.

He is

forner nember of the New York State Assembly, 1960-62.

During the perlod the Warren Commiesion was ta

existence, lane continually took lasue with the Comlaston

concerning evidence developed surrounding the assassination

of President Kennedy. He rocolved conalderable pubiialty

in these matters and regarding his personal invostigation

of the aseassination of President Kennedy.. At one point,

he was retained by Mrs. Marguerite Oswald, nother of

Lee Harvey Oswald. On Decembar 30, 1904, he marrted a

Danish national and has been residing abroad since that

time.

He frequently returns to the United States and on

hugust 10, 1965, he publiabed & book "Bush to Judgment, "

which he doncribos as a critique of the Warren Commission's

inquiry into the assassination of President Kennedy.

te drisce of the bistrict Attorney, queens county.

Now fors, conducted an Investigation of Mark Lane in 1962

for alleged sodony, making avatlable the statements of two

girls, an obseans photograph of lark lane and hand printed

Instructione which lane gave to one of the girls in order"

that they could perfom upon his person perverted sezual

acts of a sadistie and monotose nature.

A confidential source, contact with whon has been

Insulficient to establish his rollability,

has adviaed that

the Soviet Counittee for State Security (KGB) had established

& "rasted reintionhip" pith tart lava. Ho mao idontizled elu

CGS: 11c :eco

(7)

ALI INFORMACION CONTAINED

PENELO IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPE WHERE SHOWN

OTHERNISE

Hon-

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

$214326

Classmen t

PERTA/GEL

Declassify on: OADK

1/9/85

RECREA

DocId: 32319650

Page 7

---

## Page 8

eleased under the John P. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

• lawyer and author of a rocent book erittenl

offleer who had two meetings with Lano.

Thereatter,

howeves:

and after his reture was

not contasted.

With regard to the Boris Orekhoy mentioned shove,

As belloved he is identseal with Dorts Mikhaylovich

& Soviet nations formerly caployed by Cae

United Nations Secretariat, New Tork City.

Oreliaov

served in the United States from February 12, 2961, to

June 17, 19620

Brom August 19, 1965, to

Ap2xl 3, 1966.

Accozding to the above

confidential source.

antomation concerning Lene

had previously boon made

available to the KGU 30

enber, 1903•

This dece

desorbed tan as an attorney.

nonber oi the New York

State Assen 7:

and sharply opposed to polieses of the

Rey Xork Denooza tie

• зетсу..

le vis also deseribod be

sharply opposed to rocial discrimination, having organized

"Erpedon

eiders" which traveled to southern

states shore he was

arrestoLe

sas further described

sistance althongs no se 10c

inclined

COOKIES: 112980•

51K)

NOLE:

See memorandum Branigan to Mr. W.C. Sullivan dated

11/1/67 captioned as above, prepared by CGS: 1lc:eco.

This is being prepared for delivery to the White

House and Attorney General.

Classified "Top Secret" as it dontains information

received from chighly sensitive source, NY 5812-S*/disclosure

of which could result in grave damage to the defdese interests

of the U.S.

CIA concurrence has been received for the dissenination

of the information concerning Lane as set forth in this matter.

T3RO:

(SECRET)

DocId: 32319650 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) »

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

25 October 1967

INFORMAL, NOTE

SHAMROCK/Mark LANE

We refer to your Informal Note, dated 18 October 1967,

subject as above, which requested our concurrence for the

dissemination of certain information to the White House and

the Attorney General, which concurrence you had originally

requested on 22 August 1967.

This is to confirn our dis

cussion with Mr. PAPICH that verbal clearance was granted

for your requested dissemination on 30 August 1967.

Appa-

rently this clearance was lost in channels.

To ensure that

this does not happen again, we have since started to follow-

up such verbal concurrences with confirming notes such as

this*

FRE INfo

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 ScO/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

SECRET

SUFINIAN

DocId: 32319650 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

• LULL

CIA HAS NE OBUGSTION TO

DONE ALEONAON AWDIOT

10 THIS GOCUMENT KPS /20/98

SECRED

Mr o

F.

Mx •

C.

J.

Cassidy

Sullivan

August 22, 1067

BY LIAISON

8G. pl.

10/35/6

CLASSIFIED BY 566Y 500/gel

meno

MARK LANE

BEarance

18

ade to inforuation reces yeL

23, 1007, and August 36, 3007, from the ChantockS)

JFK.

Youre concurrence de dontred for the diesen

iantion of the following information concerning him to the

White House

and the Attorney Coneral.

born February 34, 1937, Bronx,

• Torie

lemal otizees an lew Tork City elace 1900.

Lo bas & 200g history of artiliation with

Comantet Party front groups.

In 2032 he

121326

was dosinistrative Secretary of the New York

Classived b

LP66SAGa

Chaptes of the National Lawyers Guild which

has been cited by the Blouse Comittee on

Declassity on:

OADR /9/35 in-Amertean detivities.

Do 19 a former

member of the New York State Assembly,

3000-62.

Lane received considerable publielty during

the persod the Varren Consission was in

exântence since he continually took desue

Mith the Commission concerning evidence

developed surrounding the asssination of

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN IS LOCKASSIELED

President Kennedy.

At one point,

retained by krg. Marguerite Oswald, nother

or 1e0 harvey Cawald.

On December 30, 2964,

bo married & Innish national and has been

rosiding nirond sinco that time. lie

frequently returns to the United States

and on august 10, 1060, he pubisshed

book *Rush To Judgment,/ which he deseribes

SINO TORBICH DISSE

LINAS TON

30m 1

100-409763

1. 1105-162125

(Shamrock) 5)

1 - 105-169820

(Jondis)

CGS: as

(7)

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

(SECRETI

DocId: 32319650

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CRAT/NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

SECRET

MARK LANE

NOTE:

Agency is

channels.

This memorandum of inquiry to Central Intelligence

prepared for transmittal through Shamrock s

Classified "Top Secret/No Foreign Dissemination"

is It contains internation ceceived to a mighty sensitiv

ource, NY 5812-S disclosure of which would result li

damage

to the delense interest of the United States.

re Law,

/NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

- 3 - SECRET

3J\

012)

DocId: 32319650 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 210? Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rov: 12-13-56)

FBI CONFIDENTIAL

Date:

3/30/66

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via _ATETEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, DALLAS

RE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY, 11/22/63

Dallas, Texas

MISCELLANEOUS -

INFORMATION CONCERNING

00 - DALLAS

Classified by 9803 RDO /EM

Declassify on: DADR

(5PK) 3/14/93

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies, and New York

three copies, of an LIM relating to captioned matter which is

being furnished the Bureau and New York for information, and

the Bureau may desire to make dissemination, if deemed appropriate.

The information contained in the LiM from Mrs. HILL was

obtained by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

The information from Mr.

BOWERS reflected in LHM was received by IC STEVE D. ALBRIGHT.

The information contained in the LHM relating to JONES HARRIS is

reflected in New York airtel to Bureau dated 2/26/65, captioned

"PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

KENNEDY", Bufile 62-109090, Dallas file 62-3588, serial 35.

The information contained in the LHM concerning MARK

LANE is contained in Legat,

London, letter to Bureau dated 2/4/66,

captioned "MARK LANE, SM-C."

J- Bureau (RM)

(er

10-12

(3 = 62109060 - ASSASSINATION file)

(2 = 100409763- MARK LANE)

CARBON COPY

2 - Legat, London (100-3247 - MARK LANE)

3 - New York (RM) (info) (

12 = 100-117844 (MARK LANE)

(1 - 89-75 ASSASSINATION file)

2 • Dallas (1 - 89-43)

(1 - 100-10970 - MARK LANE) (C)

NOT RECORDED

128 APR 1% 1966

RPG: Jeg

(12)

CONFIDENTIAL

Sent

Approved:

DocId: 32319650 Page 12

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-11-2017

DL 89-43

CONFIDENTIAL

DL T-1, confidential source abroad referred to in

LHM 18 the Danish Security Service C)

The enclosed LHM is classified "Confidential" inasmuch

as the information concerning MARK LANE contained in the LHM

was taken from an LHM dated 2/4/66 at Washington, D. C., captioned

"MARK LANE" which was classified "Confidential" inasmuch as it

contained information from the Danish Security Service

which

had been so classified.

Information from WARREN ALLEN REYNOLDS was received by

SA GERALD LEWIS GEARY.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32319650

Page

13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

COr IDEMNAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

Ite No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

March 30, 1966

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY

November 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On the night of March 28, 1966, Mrs. Jean Lollis Hill,

9402 Bluff Creek, Dallas, Texas, telephone number EV 1-2271,

telephonically contacted the Dallas Office of the Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI) and requested that she be contacted by a

Special Agent familiar with the assassination investigation.

On the morning of March 29, 1966, Mrs. Hill advised

that during the past week she has been telephonically contacted

on several occasions by an individual identifying himselt as

De Antonio who indicated he and a Mr. Black were preparing an

educational television documentary concerning the assassination

of President Kennedy and desired to interview her in detail..... she

stated that she had not consented to such an interview but on

the evening of March 28, 1966, two individuals identifying them-

selves as De Antonio and Black, appeared at her residence for the

purpose of interviewing her.

She stated that she questioned them

as to the exact nature of their visit and being a school teacher,

herself, doubted that they were endeavoring to compile data for

any edica timal television documentary relating to the assassination.

Mrs. Hill stated that she had previously talked to an

individual named Jones Harris, who was also desiring to interview

her for purposes of a book he was writing and that Jones Harris

had indicated to her that De Antonio was one of "Mark Lane's men."

Mrs. Hill advised that she specifically asked De Antonio

and Black if they were connected with Mark Lane and De Antonio

admitted that Mark Lane was "one of their backers." She stated

De Antonio mentioned that some of the backing was coming from

England for his project.

Classified by 9803 ROD/EH

Declassify on: VAUK

(272)21N93

CONROEMAL

DocId: 32319650 Page 14

---

## Page 15

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

Re®

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY

November 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas

February, 1965, telephone Pi 5-8310.

On February 25, 1965, Florance Gaffney, operator of Belles

North Limited Answering Service, basement of apartment house located

at 221 East 78th Street, New York, New York, advised that Jones

Harris, at the above-mentioned New York address, was convinced that

Lee Harvey Oswald did not assassinate President Kennedy and that

Harris believed Oswald was one of the persons appearing in a well

published photograph of a group of people appearing in the doorway

of the Texas School Book Depository building on the day of the

assassination.

She indicated that Harris was supported in this

theory by a New York attorney, Arnold Krakower.

Mrs. Gaffney described Harris as a free lance writer, white

male, in his early thirties,

short stocky build, about 5'6" tall,

dark hair, balding, and dark eyes.

On January 12, 1966, DL T-1, a confidential source abroad,

furnished information to the effect that Mark Lane had finished

reading the proofs of his book dealing with the assassination of

President Kennedy, entitled "Rush to Judgment." According to this

an article appeared in the Danish newspaper "Lolland-Falsters

Soirelidende", on January 4, 1966, which related that a documentary

film of full length was expected to be produced dealing with the

assassination and founded on Mark Lane's book.

The film was to be

made by be Antonio, not further identified,

and was to be based on

pictures taken by American Broadcasting System and the Columbia

Broadcasting System.

The article indicated that in February, 1966,

Lane and his assistants were going to Dallas to talk to witnesses

of the assassination (c)

Warren Allen Reynolds, 8707 Mosswood, Dallas, Texas,

advised the Dallas Office of the

FBI on March 30, 1966, that he had

been recently contacted by an Emile de Antonio a producer for

Judgment: Films Corporation, New York City, New York, formerly

associated with BBC-TV, New

York City (not further identified).

Antonio advised Reynolds that his film company was making an educa

tional film regarding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Antonio indicated they were staying at the Arlin Motel, Arlington,

CONDY

NIAL

DocId: 32319650

Page 15

---

