# docid-32305410

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10040

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-680

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NK

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/27/1962

7

ABR, LIST, ASSOC, ADDRESSES, MARINO, ANGELO,

MARTIN, DEAN, FAS, SINGING ENGAGEMENT, RELATED TO

WEDDING, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305410

394

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NK 22-473

SINATRA'S personal airplane landed at the AC

Airport at 1:55 a.m., 3/25/62. Departing from the plane

were six people.:

SAMMY DAVIS, JR. andwhat appeared to be

his manager (a white male) departed from the airport with

an AC police officer in an unmarked police car for the

500 Club. SINATRA'S plane described as a Martin 202.

Three men and a woman departed from the airplane

and left the airport in a car bearing New Jersey License

GWL-239, which is a rental car from the Hertz Rent-A-Car

Company in AC. The people in the rented automobile were :

believed to be pilots and employees oi SINATRA:

' Former, NK 2153-C advised on 3/24/62 that on the

night of 3/23/62 BRUNO and two unsubs plus FREDRIEZZI;

"PAPPY I POLITO; JOE MARINO, aKa.

"EINGERS"; LOUISTBILOTTI,

and several other unknown persons were at the 500 Club,

AC.

Newark sources at the Claridge hotel, AC, advised.

that teleshone callo were being received for a JOSEPH

BONANNO, but that representatives of the SINATRA grOup

refused

to receive the messages on 5/23/62. However, on

/24/62 messages were received by the sinatRa group an

resumably delivered to JOE BONANNO

SAs of the Newark Office observed a person

believed to be JOE BONANNO and three unsubs leaving the

Claridge Hotel at 9:41 a.m.; 3/25/62.

departed in a 1961 Oldsmobile with New Jersey License

CBA-69% registered to ANN IANIERI, 107 South Mississippi

Ave., AC. ANN IANIERI is he wife of VINCENT I. NIERI,

who was a former hotel manager in AC. It is noted that

VINCENT TANIERI WaS a

principal arrested in a gambling

raid in AC in August, 1958:

MAURIO FLORIANO, AC PD Captain, advised in

strictest confidence on 3/24/62 that as 01 4:30 a•M.,

3/24/62, he had seen SAM GIANCANA,

BUDDY GRECO and his

wife, and KELLY SMITM in the private dining room on.

SINATRA'S floor.

GIANCANA reportedly had made a reser-

vation on 8/24/62 for an unknown number of people at the

500 Club under the name of SAM MOONEY.

3

DocId: 32305410 Page 2

---

