# docid-32304701

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10331

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-6054-1ST NR 609

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/30/1964

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

LCN, OC, MEMBER, PINDILLI, GUISEPPE, CRIMINAL ACT,

RETURN TO US, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304701

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey.

IDATE: 1I-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

5010-106-05

MAY 1962 'EDITION

OSA GEN. REG. NO. 21

UNITED STATES GOVURNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

DATE3/30/64

SAC, CIEVELAND (157-127)

SUBJECT:

CAVBOMB

• La Dosa NostRa

Re Bureau letter to Cleveland dated 2/5/64 and

Cleveland letter to Director dated 1/28/64.

On March 19, 1964, SA FRANK G. DOUDS, Youngstown

Resident Agent, Cleveland Division, contacted Supervisory

HARtZELL,

Investigator FRANK P. NUCKLES, rectOr RICHARD W. AHERN,

Investigator VINCENT I.

and Deputy District

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), Cleveland,

INS No. A 5223148

concerning the status of GUISEPPE PINDILL the United States.

and the possibilities of his re-entry into

It was pointed out to the above mentioned officials

of the INS that the subject, PINDILLI, was a member of the

"organization" known as La Cosa Nostra; and although it was

not felt that PINDIIII would furnish any information to any

governmental agency, he has a relative who would more or

less

control PINDILLI If he would return. Through this

relative, it was felt that information would be obtained

possibly leading to the solution of this case and provide

extensive information regarding La Cosa Nostra as well.

It was also pointed out that the relative, an informant

6-Bureau

(1 - 92-6054)

(1 - 137-1826)

(1 - 62-9-11)

11 - 66-2542)

6-Cleve land

(1 - 92-748)

(1 - 137-341)

92-477)

(1 - 137-1130)

FCD/ smd

(12)

192-6054-

NOT DECORDED

46. APR 3 1964

53 APR 2 7 1964

DocId: 32304701 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

"I am sure that your cooperation in this matter

would materially aid both your service and this agency in

a matter of mutual interest.

Very truly yours,

Earl E. Brown

Special Agent in Charge"

NUCKIES following this interview furnished

photographs of two subjects of an INS investigation; namely,

RALPH CANNOVA, aka., and SEBASTIAN VERMIGLIO, FBI # 451960,

both of whom have been deported and have come back illegally

into the United States and are part of an organized plot

which ineludes such individuals as JOHN SCALISH, JOHN

DE MARCO,

the State of Ohio in millions

of dollars of State Cigarette Tax.

The group allegedly

has three tax stamp machines in their possession which they

are using to stamp cigarettes

and thus evade state taxes.

These photos have been furnished CV-344-C, and

he is making inquiry.

NUCKIES also stated they were also interested

In a FRANK MEZZATESTA, 415 Earl Street, Kent, Ohio, who

arranged a marriage for a nephew, ANTHONY MADAFFARI,

who had entered the United States on a visitor's visa and

later married a prostitute, ROSE BRYSON, aka., Youngstown,

ohio, who was paid $400.00 or $500.00 for the marriage,

which would prevent MADAFFARI from

being deported or sent

back to Italy.

This information had been furnished INS

by this division to open this case.

It is noted that in connection with the CABOMB

investigation, It was determined the prime suspect, DOMINIC

MOIO, murdered at Canton, Ohio, September, 1963, often

visited MEZZATESTA and arranged through PAUL HOLOVITICH,

prime suspect in CAVBOMB for this marriage.

_4

DocId: 32304701 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note.

• DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

on March 24, 1964, CV-344-C was contacted by

SA FRANK G. DoUDs and he displayed a letter from GUISEPPI

In this letter, PINDILLI

wrote that he had written to his good friends, JAMES

TRIPODI, Steubenville, Ohio, ANTHONY RIPEPI, Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania, thanking them for the help they had given

his son when he had been in a little trouble. He also

mentioned that he wanted to be remembered to FRANK

DE AUGUSTINO, Cleveland, Ohio, and FRANK VEZZAIESTA

Kent, Ohio, and that he

was grateful for the $100.00

check he had received.

CV-344-0 stated regarding MEZZATESTA he knew

that he had tried to get a nephew into the country on

a quota; and not succeeding, he had him come to this

country on a'visa; and to prevent his going back to

Italy, he had arranged a marriage through DOMINIC MOIO

he was working with the NAPIES brothers and

HOLOVITICH In Youngstown:

He stated that previously,

from his father, he learned that MEZZATESTA had been

greatly respected in the "organization" and a man who

could be trusted.

MEZZAIESTA, he said, is very close

the funeral of

stated he would call on MEZZAIESTA and attempt to

determine MOIO's connection with the CAVBOMB case,

but he pointed out that if he could call on him with

his father, GUISEPPI, he would be assured of all the.

information in the possession of MEZZATESTA including

NOID's part in the CAVALIERO killing, if he was involved

in the fatal bombing of BILLY NAPIES which occurred prior

to that and in which MOIO had to have been involved.

CV-344-C stated he was again writing his father

and will mention CHARLIE CAVALIARO and his murder and

will advise any background of their association which

his father may supply later by letter.

CV-344-C made a photograph of GUISEPPI PINDILLI

available to SA DOUDS, as well as the letter he had

written from ARGENTINA on March 5, 1964, and this is being

a 5-

DocId: 32304701 Page 4

---

