# docid-32287999

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10198-10275

- RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-682

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/08/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LST, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF. LAST REVIEW:

10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32287999

Page 1

---

## Page 2

I Released

under

the John F.

DATE: 151-11-2017

ennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 05C 2100 Hotel:

FBI

Date:

2/8/61

Transmit the following in:

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

Director, FBI (92-2781)

SAC, Atlanta (92-135)

SAC, Miami (92-88)

FROM:

SAC, Tampa (92-1) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00: Tampa)

WEEKLY SUMMARY

Subject has not been reported by sources at Tampa.

KENNETH LEON GUTHRIE, Installer, General Telephone

Co. of Florida,

Interviewed, and claimed he had been a friend

1' Of JAMES CLOG for approximately five years, and has

-done some extra-job electrical work for LONGO and his friends.

He stated a friend of LONGO'S waS SANTO TRAFFICANTE, who had

electrical motors on double garage doors at 2505 Bristol,

Tampa, which are operated from switches in various automobiles,

/and that such were inoperative, and LONGO called him over to

subject's residence shortly after New Year's, 1963 (known fron

FISUR 2505 Bristol Ave., that it was night of 1/2/63) at which

time he saw Mr. and Mrs. SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JAMES/LONGO, and

a man introduced as LOU - LNU. (Known to be LOUIS P. BRADY,

subject of AR case, 00 Chicago). GUTHRIE stated he agreed

with Mcs. TRAFFICANTE that he would install a new motor for

the garage doors.

He claimed he also did electrical work through

the ho, of FRANK CAt, Ta a attorney for the TRAFFICANTES

rainin

TERE:

GUTHRIE claims he never did any telephone company

work for such individuals, and emphatically denied he ever

furnished any information

from telephone records to unauthorized

3 - Bureau

2 - Miami (92-88)

- Atlanta (92-135)

3 - Tampa

92.2781

SJL: em,

REG. 21

(10) V

Approved

110.

Sen

1952

1 FEB 1 spectal Agent in Charge

DocId: 32287999 Page 2

---

