# docid-32271304

## Page 1

v09-16-96ccr

JEK RECORDS

CrOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10000

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 22-09-01

Other Agency Equity:

None

...-

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE

00/00/00

PAGES

:. 7

DOCUMENT TYPE

: REPORT

SUBJECT (S)

CLASSIFICATION

:CUBANA AIRLINES; CIA, FILES;

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/04/95

COMMENTS

: Box 10

Date in: 01/26/96

FE

F

FFFFFFFF

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

53080

DocId: 32271304

Page

---

## Page 2

subject:

CUBANA AirliNeS

Outline Section:

CIR

Read

Approved

Initial

Date

Initial

Date

Author Joys

Cite Checked

Team Leader

Billings

Cornwell

Blakey

11/2

NOTES:

Need to identity the source ar least as to tape,

É eliability) óf the original Story, $

On at name folly th de saint behina

the conchision on

so contident in aui

tre page 5: Why are an

Never occund, $ the

Conchsions thAt the everTs

NoT at hat the sh a bit do mi.

Form_REP-

74 53080

DooId: 32271304

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NOVEMBER 22, 1963 CUBANA FLIGHT

Book V of the Senate Intelligence Committee

Report refers to a reported five-hour delay (6:00PM

EST to 11:00 PM EST) of a Cubana flight from Mexico

to Havana the evening of president Kennedy's assas

sination, November 22, 1963. (Senate Intelligence

Committee Report, April 23, 1976, P. 30) The most

intriguing aspect of the report was that the alleged

delay was to await arrival at 10:30 PM EST Of a pri-

vate twin engined aircraft, which deposited an uni-

dentified passenger who boarded the Cubana aircraft

without customs: clearance and traveled to Havana

in the pilot's cabin. (ibid ps. 60 -61) The Senate

Intelligence Committee wrote that the Central In-

telligence Agency "had no information indicating

that a followup investigation was conducted to deter-i

mine

the identity of the passenger and had no fur-

ther information on the passenger, and no explan-

ation for why a followup investigation was not con-

ducted." (ibid p.61)

The Senate

Intelligence Committee Report

raises four major Questions:

a)Did the Central Intelligence Agency write the

Senate Intelligence Committee that no investigation

of the November 22, 1963 Cubana flight was conducted?

NW 53080 DocId: 32271304

Page

3

---

## Page 4

b) Did the Central Intelligence Agency further inves-

tigate the allegation?

c) What were the results of the Central Intelligence

Agency investigation?

d) -Were the results of the Central Intelligence

Agency investigation forwarded to the Senate Intel-

ligence Committee?

In an attempt to answer the questions raised

by the Senate Intelligence Committee Report, the

House Select Committee on Assassinations has done

the following:

a) Conducted an extensive review of the Central Intel-

ligence Agency files that pertain to the November

22, 1963 Cubana flights:

b) Reviewed Tab B of the 1977 Cia Staff Report which

included a section on the November 22,1963 Cubana

flights.

c) Reviewed the February 4, 1976 Central Intelligence

Agency letter to the Senate Intelligence Committee.

DID THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY WRITE THE

SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE THAT NO INVESTIGATION

OF THE NOVEMBER 22, 1963 CUBANA FLIGHT WAS CONDUCTED?

After a careful review of the February

4, 1976 Central Intelligence Agency letter to the

IT 53080

DocId: 32271304

Pare

---

## Page 5

Senate Intelligence Committee , the House Select

Committee on Assassinations has determined that the

Senate Intelligence's interpretation of the letter

is misleading. The Central Intelligence Agency wrote

the Senate Intelligence Committee that the Mexican

authorities

were asked about the reported flight

delay although there was no recorded response: (CIA

letter to Senate Intelligence Committee; 2/4/76)

DID THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY: FURTHER INVESTIGATE

THE ALLEGATION?

The Central Intelligence Agency conducted

regular surveillance of Cubana flights, filing cable

reports to Headquarters. (1977 CIA Staff Report, Tab B,

P. 11) There was one unilateral CIA surveillance team CLifRE)

that observed arrivals and departures of Cubana

flights, reporting any unusual incidents and providing

copies of flight manifests. (ibid, p.1l) The Mexican

authorities also had a surveillance, team of its own

at the airport which provided the CIA with photo

graphs of passports and copies of passenger lists.

(ibia p.11) Additionally, a telephone tap operation

(LIENVOY) against the Cuban Embassy provided trans-

cripts. of conversations with the Cubana office and

the Mexican Airport Control office.

17 53080 DocId: 32271

---

## Page 6

WHAT WERE THE RESULTS OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY INVESTIGATION?

The LIENVOY transcripts record a

series of

discussions about the status of the November 22, 1963

Cubana flight- when it arrived and when it departed

The transcripts show that the flight arrived at the

airport at 1620 hours (All times used will be mexico

City time to avoid confusion) Mexico City time. (HSCA

Staff Review Of November 22, 1963 LIENVOY transcripts)

Prior to the arrival of the aircraft, one person

stated that the aircraft was due at 1630 hours and

"it will go" at 1730, suggesting a quick turnaround

that would have reduced unloading and loading time,

as well as servicing to a relatively short period.

(bid) However, the key report on the departure of

the aircraft was a statement at 2040 hours that.

the aircraft had departed for Cuba five minutes

earlier, i.e.r 2035 hours. (ibid)

DIFFERENCE SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AND HOUSE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS FINDINGS

The House Select Committee on Assassinations

findings differ from those of the Senate Intelligence

committee in the following manner:

a) The Cubana flight was on the ground in Mexico

City for a total of four hours and about ten minutes.

It was not delayed five hours as reported in Book v.

---

## Page 7

b) The Cubana flight departed at 2035 hours

Mexico City time, 55 minutes ahead of the alleged

arrival at 2130 of a private flight with a secret

passenger:

c) The 2035 departure also contrasts further with the

Senate Intelligence Committee Report that the Cubana

flight departed at 2200.

V

No record of a November 22, 1963 twin-engine

aircraft carrying a lone passenger exists. In addition,

no record exists"of a passenger traveling to Havana

Fettersio

in the pilot's cabin

In view of the surveillance

port by biff the cis.

#Mitican

coverage of the Cubana flight, it is doubtful that

the alleged activity involving the private twin-

engined aircraft and passenger would have gone unno-

ticed or unreported had it occurred

→ reudew of

the LiEna)

TiANiceiPTs and

WERE THE RESULTS OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

AGENCY FORWARDED TO THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE

COMMITTEE

The Central Intelligence Agency gave the

Senate Intelligence Committee only the informant

allegations. The Senate Intelligence Committee

did not review the LIFIRE Or LIENVOY records. Relying

solely on the informant's allegations,

the Senate

Intelligence Committee could not have reported

the

story any differently.

NW 53080 DocId:32271304

Page 7-

---

## Page 8

4. "Cang any deduction about a cuban conspiracy be

made from Azcue's failure to recognize the man

who applied for a visa from a photograph of LHO?

5. Did Lee Harvey Oswald or an imposter visit the

Cuban Consulate? Regardless of the answer is

it significant in terms of a possible Cuban

Conspiracy?

6. HSCA trips to Cuba and Mexico.

F: Cuba's position today--a HSCA interview with Castro

in 1978.

G

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

HH 53080 DocId:32271304 Page 8

---

