# docid-32286565

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-122

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45966 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

FBI

LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/04/1960

'PAGES:

11

. SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, TOLL CALLS, RES, ACT, BKG, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: _02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HY 45966

DocId: 32286565

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-88

Relative to subject maintaning residence In Havana,

Legat, Havana,

advised that regular contact with PCI

ALBERTO SUAREZ ALEMAN; doorman at the apartment building

where subject resides, reflected as of January 27, 1960;

PCI still had no information indicating TRAFFICANTE had

returned to such residence, but on February 9, 1960.

Pc stated he had heard subject had returned to Cuba for

five or six days and had again returned to Florida. Subject

did not come to the apartment building, but continued to

pay rent and

still had the apartment.

Havana - 33 has furnished the information that

insofar as he had been able to ascertain, subject returned

to Cuba about Janury 19, 1960, and was in an apartment in the

Focsa Building, a fforty-story apartment building,

and is

using an apartment three in the name

Of HENRY SAVEDRA.

On March 9 and 11, 1960, MM 688-PC advised SA JOHN

TRAFFICANTE for some

to his knowledge SANTO was in Cuba. He said he had not

seen subject's wife in about six months and since, there had

been no activities at subject's home in Tampa.

He said

he had no new information concerning any possible activities

He said he would maintain contact with the subject when and

II in Tampa and report any unusual activities.

Inasmuch as it had been known to SA STEPHEN J.

LABADIE that subject had to return to Tampa concerning

Internal Revenue Matters, liaison had been maintained with

the Intelligence Unite,

Internal Revenue Service, Tampa,

through SA EDGAR ADAIR

and JOE B. HILL, Agent In Charge.

D.

COVER PAGE

102-10381

HIH

45966

DooId: 32286565

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

After the arrival of subject in Tampa, Florida,

from Havana, Cuba, JOSEPH B. HILL, Agent in Charge,

Intelligence Unit,

Internal Revenue Service, on March 24, 1960,

advised SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE that SANTO TRAFFICANTE

JEK Law 11(a)

Toll call information was furnished SA STEPHEN J.

LABADIE

by Mrs. PHIL G. SCUDDER, Toll section, gth Floor,

General

Telephone Company of Florida, Tampa, Florida.

REVIEWED BY SSA/JFK TASK FORGE

ON

7/22/98 dat

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

IT TOTAL DENIAL

. .;

E*.

COVER PAGE

92278-12211

HH 45966

DocId: 32286565

Page 3

---

