# docid-32323235

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90012-10004

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-303495-65X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : MX

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/05/1976

8

BERNARDO ALVAREZ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MR

v9.1

DocId: 32323235

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

" Released".

under the John Fi

DATE: (11-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination Records collection aot of 1992 711 USc. 2107 Hote).

SECRET

PACE FOUR CHin

ADUISED

REMIAMI

MOTE TO LEGAT MEXICOONG:MIANU ALSO

ROLLOCUS:

ELETYRE TUDUREAU AUGUST 2941976

THE INDIVIDUAL SELECTED IU SERVE AS AN ENVOY TU MEXICOUF THE (5)

C"CURU" URGANIZATIUNS. THE ASSEIJI AGRECAGLEU THE MEXICANE SI

GOVERNMENT WOULD BE QUING TU MEXICON FRIDAY, AUGUST 6, 1976. CST

IT IS BEING REQUESTED OF THE BUREAU IHAI AUTHURIZATION BE

GRAVTED EU MA 48D88-UA TU TRAVEL TU MEXICO CITT)AS THE CURU" (SJ

REPRESENTATIVE, IF IHE MEXICAN GUVERNMENI AGREES IU MEET WITH.

THE "CORU" ENVOY IN MEXICO] SHOULD ASSET TRAVEL IU MEXICO, IT [SJ

IS FELT THAT HIS POSITION WITHIN THE "CORK" AND VARIOUS

ANTI-CASTRO TERRORISI GROUPS WILL BE GREATLY ENHANCED, AND HE

WILL THEN BE ABLE TO PROVIDE EXCELLENT INFORMATION REGARDING

THE ACIIVITIES AND PLANS OF THESE

ERRURISI GROUPS, BUTH WITHÍN

AND OUISIDE THE U.S., NOTING THA

THIS TIME, THESE GROUPS

ARE GENERALLY OPERATING OUT OF MIAMI, FLA. AREA, AND ARE, THERE-

FORE, PROBABLY IN VIOLATION OF THE NEUTRALITY ACT.

BUREAU REQUESTED IU SEND COPY OF THIS TELETYPE TU LEGATY

MEXICO FUR THE INFORMATION, MOLING THATLASGET iS A HIGHLIE CSJ

*HOED SOURCE OF CONT HUINGVALU

_BECAUSE OF ASSET'S PUSITION, SJ

AT THIS TIMS, LEGAT, MEXICU SHUULD NOT DISSEMINATE ABUVE

INFURNARION TU MEXICAN AUTHURITIES, AS SAME COULD WELL CUMPRUMISE

ASSET. (5)

SECRET O

DocId: 32323235 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the-Joha

DATE: 11-14-2017

- Resorte

note).

SECRET

SUREAL QUESTED TU HANDLE HAIIER EXPED LEIUUSLY IN VIEW

OFPUSSTBTLITY THAT

SEES COULD TRAVEL IU MEXICO UN FRIDAY, (S]

AUGUST O, 1576. 9)

THE PERSON SENT UN AUGUST 3,

1976, TO MEET WITH MIGUEL NAZAR IS CARLUS DE TURRES, BRUTHER

OF in 4686-04.](6)

DUREAU WILL DE KEPT-ADVISED OF DEVELUPHENIS.

HOLD

EXS PITAR

SECRET

en. gave

DocId: 32323235

Page 3

---

