# docid-32303674

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

.4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10186

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-126-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, LA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/14/1953

7

JRO, THP, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, B/F

INT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC SUMMARY, ENV

49.1

DocId: 32303674

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotle) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

I. A. 94-250

of violation of Section 402A, Title 18, United States Code. This

was in connection with the extortion of funds from several motion

Other defendants in the case were Louis

sentenced to serve ten years in prison and fined

CAMPAGNA, GIOE, D'ANDREA, ana DE LUCIA were paroled from federal

institutions on August 13, 1947•

Ko 13, 1947:

$10, 000•

ROSELLI,

ROSELLI WaS

arrested July 29, 1930, at Los Angeles

while riding in a car with JACK DRAGNA, JOHN CANZONERI, and

CHARLES FISCHETTI. Police Found several guns in the car and CALeF

JACK DRAGNA claimed they had just delivered some money from the

gambling ship MO AFALCONE tO DRAGNA's home and needed the firearms

for protection while transporting the money.

IA 3095-C advised that the well-known bask robbers chif

EMBIN and HARRY LONDINSKY, were hired by ROSELLI to

murder LES BRUNEMAN, a gambler in Redondo Beach, California. The

killing took place in 1937 at the Red Rooster Cafe in Los Angeles,

although the first attempt to kill BRUNEMAN at Redondo Beach was

not successiul.

ROSELLI was frequently seen in the company of BENJAMIN

(BUGSEY) SIEGEL, now deceased, and. formerly a prominent racketeer.

In a memorandum dated September 16, 1947, forwarded

•by the Bureau to the Los Angeles Office, it was reported that an

unidentified informant, who was a dope smuggler in Mexico, had

stated ROSELLI was a small, independent dealer in narcotics.

Another reliable informant indicated that ROSELLI

was a member of the Mafia, and it was alleged that ROSELLI was

in charge of bodyguards for that organization. He was responsible

for taking old members of the Al Capone gang in Chicago to Los

Angeles to act as gunmen for the International Alliance of

Theatrical

and Stage Employees for the protection.of business

agents and personnel in the Union office.

The memorandum states

that information was

received indicating ROSELLI had been employed

by HARRY COHN, president of Columbia Pictures, to "frame" COHN's

-2 -

DocId: 32303674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the JolrT. Kenneny Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

L. A. 94-250

wife.

Reportedly ROSELLI was successful in compromising Mrs.

COHN at her house in the company of a man not her husband and

the source stated, "They shook her down for $400,000." Reportedly

ROSELLI gained control.of COHN in this manner and subsequently

borrowed

a large amount of money from COHN

to use in a business

venture.

LAOS 3516-0 has advised that the Los Angeles Police

Department has conducted an investigation regarding the activities

Of ROSELLI during recent years and has found it extremely difficult

to gain accurate information regarding him.

Business- Activities

LA 3095-C has advised that ROSELLI has become

extremely wealthy, although he spent four years in a Federal

penitentiary during the 1940's.

Upon his release from federal

custody, he immediately was employed by BRYAN FOY in thé motion

picture

industry

as an associate of FOY. ROSELLI is known to

frequent the various night clubs in Los Angeles,

particularly

Charley Foy's Supper Club, where numerous motion picture peop_€

are also known to frequent.

Associates

Associates of ReSHLI include JACK DRAGNA, IOM CELI

DRAGNA, BRYANTOX CHARLES FOY, HARRY

COHN. ALIEN SMILEY..

Identification Record

ROSELLI has FBI No: 3339986. ROSELLI was first

arrested at

the age of 19 on January 28, 1925, by the Los

Angeles Police Department on suspicion of grand larceny,

released the following day:

on March 26, 1925, he was arrested

by the Los Angeles County

Sheriff's Office and

charged with

violation of the

"Gun Law" and claimed to be a native of New York.

I'his charge was dismissed on June 8, 1925.

On May 4, 1926, he was

again arrested by the los Angeles County Sheriff's Office

on

suspicion of robbery and this charge was

'dismissed. On May 11, 1926,

- 3 -

DocId:32303674 Page 3

---

