# docid-32404090

## Page 1

Date: 03/09/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10330-10105

RECORD

SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

06-22-2017

FROM

TO

: J. BARRY HARRELSON

: T. JEREMY GUNN

TITLE

: MF: CIA-IR-21, MONTHLY OPERATIONAL REPORTS FOR THE DRE

DATE

01/20/1998

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : DRE

REPORTS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION:

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

03/06/03

COMMENTS :

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

JFK-M-15 : F5: 2000.02.07.11:32:56:560035

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10105

HH 53217

DocId: 32404090

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE

IN FULL

2000

C)HRG

Marlay, Howord

20 January 1998

Memorandum For:

T. Jeremy Gunn

Executive Director

Assassination Records Review Board

From:

Subject:

J. Barry Harrelson

Senior Reviewer

JEK Project

CIA-IR-21, Monthly Operational Reports

For the DRE

1.

Reference is made to your request for subject

information as further refined in your 18 December 1997

letter to Chief, Historical Review Group. Specifically, you

asked about missing DRE monthly operational reports and

the

identity of "Howard," the name to which the DRE appears to

have sent correspondence.

2. The Agency has searched appropriate data bases and

files for the "missing" reports.

In addition, the

responsible offices have researched the questions contained

within your request.

Based on these rather extensive

efforts, we can advise you as follows.

3. Missing operational monthly reports. The searches

conducted by the Agency failed to locate any of the reports

that appear to be

"missing" -- December 1962 through April

1964, In general, and those for August and November 1963 in

It should be noted that during the period in

question, major policy differences between the Agency and

This was particularly true of the latter

years of association because the DRE would not take

directions or instructions about a number of operational

matters, insisting on engaging in activities the Agency did

not sanction. These differences caused the Agency to reduce

differences.

the level of funding for the Dre.

It also replaced the

officer designated to deal with the DRE.

Then, about the

same time, the monthly operational reports trailed off.

It

seems probable these events are linked and that reporting in

the form of such monthly reports simply stopped.

The DRE

files we did find are also within the sequestered JFK

collection and they have previously been made available to

ARRB staff member Manuel Legaspi.

4.

The identity of "Howard."

With reference to your

request for information on "Howard," we, like you, have no

clear understanding about the use of this particular name on

1N 33211 Do010:32404090 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DRE messages.

The phrase, "To Howard" was used as

the

addressee of several DRE prepared memoranda. We first

attempted to identify if,

in fact, "Howard"

was an actual

The name was not found to be a pseudonym.

It also

was not found to be a registered alias.

It also is not the

true name of any case officer associated with the DRE

operation at the time the DRE documents were written.

Following review of those data bases, knowledgeable case

officers were queried suggested that the use of "To Howard"

might have been nothing more than a routing indicator to

ensure that the documents got to the correct CIA

office/officer or that the sender was someone known to the

recipient.

5.

If you have any further questions in this regard,

please

advise.

HH

53217

DocId: 32404090

Page

3

---

