# docid-32289741

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10017

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-69

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/19/1959

PAGES:

33

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, REL, BKG, ACT, MED/PER HIST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

204

DocId: 32289741

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

his stay in Rochester, Minnesota, during the middle of June,

1959-

The Minneapolis Division will make appropriate

investigation at the above railroad depot to determine the

reason for ALEX' call to that railroad and specifically to

determine whether or not he purchased a ticket or made

reservations for a trip elsewhere.

THE NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

It is noted that prior investigation at the Diner's

Club, 10 Columbus Cirole, New York City, determined that Alex

is the holder of Diner's Club Card No. 11C6531. In view of

the fact that ALEX has just returned

from an extensive vacation

trip, it is requested that the Diner's Club be recontacted to

determine whether or not ALEX has caused a charge to be made

against his account since the date of the last contact, June 15,

1959.

THE SALT LAKE CITY DIVISION

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

It is noted that as set out

here in the enclosed report,

ALEX returned to Chicago on August 3, 1959, and advised TONY

ACCARDO that he had recently been in

Las Vegas, Nevada, where he

visited the Tropicana and stayed at the Desert

Inn.

The Salt Lake City Division is requested to contact:

SU 370-C and any other appropriate source to verify ALEX' recent

presence in Las Vegas and determine whether he made any toll calls,

who he visited, and the extent of his activities in Las Vegas.

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will continue to conduct investigation regarding the

current activities, etc., of GUS ALEX in conformance with Bureau

letter to New York

dated November 27, 1957, entitled "TOP HOODLUM

PROGRAM, ANTI-RACKETEERING".

COVER PAGE

= A

NW 45679 DocId: 32289741 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

CG T-1

A confidential source

developed on July 26,

1959, by SAS RALPH R. HILL

JI., and WILLIAM F. ROEMER

CG T-2

RAYMOND SCHROEDER

Security Officer

Mayo Clinic,

Rochester, Minnesota

(Upon request)

CG T-3

CG 6343-C*

CG. T-4

EDWARD L. BRAUNE

New York Telephone Company

CG T-5

CG

6272-6

CG T-6

SANDY SMITH

Veteran Crime Reporter

of the "Chicago Tribune"

CG T-7

TONY TONTINI

Maitre D':

Whitehall Club

Delaware and Rush Streets,

Chicago, Illinois

CG. T-8

CG 6021-C

CG T-9

CG 5973-C

Information furnished to SA

ROBERT 1. CARLSON of the

Minneapolis Office on June 17,

1959:

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM F• ROEMER on July 30,

July 31, August 3, August 4, 1959.

Information furnished to SA PAUL

F: ROLANDS of the New York Office

on May 29, 1959.

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER on August 7, 1959.

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER on August 6, 1959.

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER on July 20, 1959.

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM A. MEINCKE.

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER on June 25, 1959.

COVER PAGE

B

NW 45679 DooId: 32289741 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

CG

PCI

CG T-11

STANLEY DAVIS, Manager

Northwestern Bell Telephone

Company, Rochester, Minnesota

JEK ACt 6 (4)

Information furnished to SA

WILLIAM J. ROEMER on July 8,

1959 •

Information furnished on July

13, 1959, to SA ROBERT L. CARLSON.

COVER PAGE

14 4569

DocId: 32289741

Page 4

---

## Page 5

•. FD-204 (Rev: 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Dates

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

August 19, 1959

Fleld Office File #:

Title:

GUS ALEX, Aka.

Ofice: CHICAGO

Bureau File #s

92-3182

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

ALEX continues to reside in Apt. 1001 at 4300 N.

Marine Drive, Chicago, under the name of MIKE RYAN.

ALEX' brother, SAM, is reported to operate the

"enforcement arm" of the Chicago Crime Syndicate and

directs syndicate killings as he, GUS,

and "TOUGH TONY"

CAPEZIO did in former years

ALEX underwent thorough

physical examination at Mayo Clinic in June and was found

to have slight heart

condition

ALEX continues to be

19 associates, including top hoodlums,

underlings, social acquaintances, politicians, his maid

and his girl friend, identified and characterized herein.

ALEX described as

'"mechanical" killer who accomplishes

killings quickly and efficiently as contrasted to WILLIE

DADDANO who tortures before he kills.

ALEX meets almost

daily at Celano's Custom Tailors, 620 N.

Michigan,

Chicago,

where he meets his associates and underlings associated in

gambling activities. ALEX' trip to Switzerland in January

may have been made for the purpose of arranging for negotiation

of stolen Canadian securities®

Further investigation by the

Swiss Central Police Bureau at St. Moritz failed to show that

ALEX was involved in $100,000 jewel robbery there in March.

ALEX continues to control the "Loop" for Chicago Crime

can a reported

Syndicate. ALEX reportedly owns "The Huckster's", a Chicago

restaurant. Chicago Crime Syndicate hoodlums, reportedly

including ALEX, maintain firearms range at Lake Geneva,

Wisconsin, where they frequently practice firearms.

In

addition to trip to Mayo Clinic, ALEX and his wife traveled to

Las vegas during period covered by this report. ALEX holds

Diner's Club card but has not as yet used it.

ALEX SHOULD BE

CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE TO HIS DANGEROUS PROPENSITIES.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DocId: 32289741 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

DETAILS:

1.

BACKGROUND

2.

Residence

On August 6, 1959, A. C. JAWAREK, Manager,

Murray Hill

Apartments,

4300 North Marine Drive, Chicago, Illinois, advised

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER that ALEX continues to maintain Apartment

1001 at 4300 North Marine Drive, under the name of MIKE RYAN.

He stated further that MARIANNE RYAN continues to reside with

ALEX

as his wife.

b. Relatives

SAM ALEX, Brother

JEK Law 11(a)

REVIEWED BY WUFK TASK FORGE

ON

714.98 cal

RELEASE IN FULL

HELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

3

pra

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DocId: 32289741 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

CG T-4, who has furnished reliable information in the

and that both formerly worked together in Chicago as models.

JAMES V. CELANO

CG T-3, above advised that GUS ALEX is an extremely

close friend of JAMES Y CELANO who operates Celaho*s Custom

Tailors, _6

620 North Michasan Chicago Th

This informant stated that ALEX has obviously made an

arrangement with CELANO whereby he uses a private office at

Celano's as his, ALEX', headquarters.

The informant stated that

this private office contains a bar, television, radio, desk,

and couch.

He stated that ALEX can be found almost daily, when

he is in Chicago, at Celano's and that he meets at Celano's with

associates of his who are top hoodlums and with his underlings

who he utilizes as the leaders of Chicago Crime Syndicate

activities in the First Ward of Chicago.

EDMOND M. COHEN

It is noted that when ALEX returned from his European

trip on January 15, 1959, he was searched by the United States

Customs Service and that

among other items in his possession,

was a business card showing the name of EDMOND M. COHEN, Societe

Birtas. IS 7AMBuL TurKEy

1959, where ensement cokee mataly

on July 13,

known and reputable import-export firm in Istanbul.

also

acts as a wholesaler, sales agent, and Government contractor.

COHEN stated that he met GUS ALEX and his wife in St. Moritz,

Switzerland, in January, 1958, where they were vacationing.

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DocId: 32289741 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

COHEN advised that he has

had no business dealings with ALEX

and their only relationship is that of friends who have met at

a vacation spot.

He said he knew that ALEX was of Greek origin

and was engaged in the beer business in Chicago. COHEN said

that he and AlEX met again in the winter of 1959 when both were

again traveling to St. Moritz. COHEN stated that one thing which

struck him about ALEX was his very strong feelings about his

mother whon he used to call regularly in Chicago from Switzerland.

COHEN reported that ALEX was planning to come to Athens with

his mother in May of 1959, but COHEN does not know whether or not

he did come as he has not

heard from ALEX since last winter.

JOHN

1 ARCO

close

Previous information has been reported concerning the

association which exists between JOHN D'ARCO and GUS ALEX.

inch mation

D'ARCO 'is the alderman of the First Ward of the City of Chicago.

JAMES BRUNER, who furnished information concerning the

list of names on the person of SAM GIANCANA when he was searched

by customs agents in Chicago on June 15, 1959, as set out in detail

above under the caption "Relatives", advised that one of the names

on this

list was the name JOHN D'ARCO.

On July 21, 1959, SASJOHN W. ROBERTS JI. and ROENER

contacted J0HN D'ARCO, Alderman, First Ward, City of Chicago. at

his otrice on the 23rd Float on 1od vorteet

D'ARCO waS told that when SAM "MOONEY" GIANCANA returned

from Mexico on June 15, 1959, it was learned that he was carrying

a piece of paper on which was contained the names of approximately

15 of the major hoodlums in this city along with the name of

JOHN D'ARCO and BUDDY JOCOBSON, his secretary. D'ARCO was told

that the Agents had come to him, as a man in a position of public

trust, in order to learn from him the significance of this list.

D'ARCO stated that he had no idea as to the meaning of

this list.. He said this is the first he heard of it. Several

times during the interview he stated that "a lot of people carry

my name around and I can't be responsible for what it means".

REVIEWED

BY

/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

9-11-95 TH/DAB

RELEASE IN FULL

HERELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DocId: 32289741

Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

VIVIANE GREYMOUR

It is noted that when ALEX was searched by the United

States Customs Service on January 15, 1959, at

Idlewild Airport

in New York City upon his return from Europe, a business card

of one VIVIANE GREYMOUR was found in the possession of ALEX and

his wife.

Mr. GEORGE CLOT, Prefecture of Police, Paris, France.

advised on June 30, 1959, that investigation has disclosed that

that since

Miss GREYMOUR is a journalist, it is not considered advisable

to interview her regarding her association with MARIANNE or

GUS ALEX. He suggested that adverse publicity could result from

such an interview.

OREN HUPP

When the ALEXs returned from Europe on January 15, 1959,

an address book maintained at that time by MARIANNE ALEX contained

the following notation:

OREA

HUPP, Box 274, Rural Route 2, Chesterton, Indiana:

On May 26, 1959, Sergeant JOHN MOO, Indiana State Police,

advised SA DONALD H. LOTZ a check of his records failed to locate

a record for one OREN HUPP.

On June 23, 1959, Chief of Police ALVIN HJELM, Chesterton

Police Department, Chesterton, Indiana, EDWARD BUCHANAN,

Sheriff,

Porter County, Sergeant RANDY MANN, Valparaiso Police Department,

and Miss MYRTLE BUNDY, Porter

County Credit Bureau, Valparaiso

Indiana, advised SA LOTZ that a check of their records failed to

reflect a record for one OREN HUPP:

On July 8, 1959, Mr. IRVIN DOLK, Postmaster,

"Chesterton,

Indiana, advised SA LOTZ that he has been acquainted with OREN

HUPP for approximately the past two years. He stated that HUPP

during this time has been employed by the Taylor Forge Company,

Gary, Indiana.

Mr. DOLK stated that he knows nothing derogatory

in regards to HUPP; however, he is

not well acquainted with HUP.

= 12 =

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DooId: 32289741 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 92-373

CG T-9, who has furnished reliable information in the

past, advised SA

ROEMER on June 25, 1959, that he has learned

that GUS ALEX went to Switzerland recently, within the past

five or six months, in order to arrange for the negotiation

of Canadian securities there. He said that the ostensible

purpose of ALEX' visit was for a vacation and skiing trip,

that he was actually there carrying out the request of hoodlums

in Canada who had somehow obtained

these

securities

The

informant stated that he understands that ALEX "botched" the

job and was unable to arrange for disposal of the securities as

was expected.

The hoodlums who were interested, therefore, were

unhappy with ALEX and refused to reimburse him for his trip.

The informant stated that

he was unable to furnish

any more information regarding this. He was unable to advise

as to how the Canadian hoodlums obtained the securities,

the

nature of the securities or how ALEX was endeavoring to dispose

of them.

CG T-9 was asked for the source of his information

regarding this.

He stated that he has many contacts whom he

believes to be involved in hoodlum operations but whom he

does not know by name.

He said that one of these is the source

for the above. He said he believes the information authoritative

but could add nothing more.

On June 18, 1959, DI. ALFRED CARREL, Swiss Central

Police Bureau, Bern, Switzerland, reported that investigation

at sto Moritz, Switzerland, has failed to show that GUS ALEX

was in that locality during

March, 1959. Further, additional

inquiry by the Swiss has revealed that it appears improbable

that subject was involved in the burglary of a jewelry shop at

Moritz, Switzerland, March 4, 1959.

The Swiss now believe

that this burglary was the work of Italian hoodlums.

CG T-5, above,

advised on August 7, 1959, that GUS

ALEX continues to control the First Ward of the City of Chicago

for the Chicago Crime Syndicate. He stated that nothing of

an illegal nature operates on an organized basis in the First

Ward without the approval of GUS ALEX.

He stated further that

- 19 -

92-3182-69

NW 45679 DooId: 32289741

Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG 92-373

The following informants are furnishing current

information regarding ALEX:

CG 6343-C*

CG 6272-C

CG 5973-C

CG 6021-C

The following informants have furnished recent

information concerning ALEX but none during the period covered

by instant report:

CG 6232-C

CG 6308-C

JFK Act 6

(4)

CG 6241-C

CG 6215-C

In addition to the above, PCI

has

furnished current information concerning ALEX.

It; is noted that CG 6343-C* is in a position to

furnish almost daily information concerning the activities of

ALEX.

This

informant is in a position to cover meetings of

ALEX at his

headquarters

at Celano's Custom Tailors, 620 North

Michigan, where ALEX meets with other top hoodlums and subordinates

on an almost daily basis.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 28=

HH 45679

DocId: 32289741

Page

11

---

