# docid-32328550

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90076-10065

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-75110-10

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/19/1959

' PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

MANUEL JOAQUIN DIAZ

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

13

DocId: 32328550

Page 1

---

## Page 2

9-22

ERSA

665520

→ OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES EVERNMENT

Memorandum

-

SECRE

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-75110)

DATE:

November 19, 1959

ALL INSORMATION CONTAINED

FROM

HEREIN IS UNCRASSIFTED EXCEE

SAC, MIAMI (134-368)

WADRE SHONN OTHERNISE.

SUBJECT:

MANUEL JOAQUIN DIATO ARENAS

PSI - CUBA

5668/510/nde

Declassity on and 5FK

Re Bureau letters dated 9/8/59,

and 10/14/59; and

report of SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN, dated 8/6/59, at Miami.

On November 4, 1959, DIAZ advised SA WILLIAM A.

WIGHTMAN that he returned to Havana, Cuba, on September 23,

1959, and tendered his resignation as a Lieutenant in the

Cuban Revolutionary Air Force (FAR), to JUAN ALMEIDA,

Chief of FAR.

DIAZ stated he resigned because he did

not

desire to live in Cuba under the present regime, that he

did not want to be a member of any military unit of the

Cuban Government, and that he is a United States citizen

and prefers to reside in the United States and to do nothing

which would jeopardize his citizenship. DIAZ stated that

during his tenure as a member of FAR, he was assigned to

perform various investigative duties, both in Cuba and the

United States.

While in the United States on behalf of the Cuban

Government, he did not wear a military uniform and he made

little or no attempt to conceal his presence in the United

States. DIAZ said that he is currently employed as the

Assistant Station Manager of Cubana Airlines at the Miami

International Airport, Miami, Florida, which position was

approved by ALONZO HIDALGO,

former Cuban Consul General in

Miami, who is presently the Governmental Supervisor of all

Cubana

HE?

C.

105-75110-10

2'

Bureau (RM)

Miami

(1- 105-1734)

WAW :mbs

(4)

116 NOV 23 1959

EX 104

294,9.

SECRE

Mrs;

6 % DEC 4 - 1959

NW 54460 DooId: 32328550

Page 2

day.

---

## Page 3

MM 134-368

DIAZ said that his original purpose in the United

States on behalf of the FAR was at the direction of JUAN

ORIA, Secretary in charge of the Prime Minister's Office.

ORTA told him to establish contact with the FBI and U. S.

Customs for the purpose of cooperating with those agencies

regarding the activities of BATISTA exiles and anti-CASTRO

elements in the United States.

with the complete approval of both Cuban and United States

authorities and was to be completely overt. #DIAZ stated

a to bệ c

that at one time RAMIRO VALDEZ, Chief of Cuban G-2 anad

discussed the possibility of sending DIER Agents to the

United States, but that this

proposal never went beyond the

discussion stage and to DIAZ's knowledge, no DIER Agents

had been sent to the United States

Cuban

"During the first part of February, 1959, former

Secretary of State ROBERTÖYAGRAMONTE,

informed DIAZ

that he was anticipating contact with the U. S. State

Department to make inquiry regarding the status of U. S:

citizens who were serving in the Cuban Armed Forces.

DId said that this was the first and last mission of this

subject. However, he informed Agents of the FBI of this

intention of AGRAMONTE for the information of the U. S.

Government.

DIAZ has on several different occasions voiced

a concern as to his status in the FAR and has said that

should his position as a Lieutenant in any way possibly

jeopardize his citizenship status, he would immediately

relinquish such position.

During

the time DIAZ was in the

U. S. on behalf of the FAR, he cooperated fully with the

government

Bureau letter dated September 8, 1959, noted

that such a statement is vague and that a succinct summary of

the data DIAZ had furnished was desired.

- 2 .

SEGRET

NW 54460 DooId: 32328550 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 134-368

6-1

VAA

Miami letter dated September 25, 1959, captioned

cuban Revolutionary Alr Force, Foreign Political Matter •

Cuba,

set forth a complete and detailed listing of personnel

assigned to the FAR, including pilots, pilot cadets, air

police, ground transport maintenance and mechanics, operations,

ammunition dump and headquarters and headquarters company,

as well as a complete listing of 77 aircraft which comprised

the active strength of the FAR. This information was believed,

by the Miami Office, to be of major importance to OSI in

providing a factual

evaluation of the FAR.

On August 14, 1959, DIAZ was in a position whereby

was the only source available to the Miami Office who

familiar with the activities of RICARDO/PIMENTED Who

at that time' in charge of all intelligence investigations

in Miami and was operating wichin the cuban Consulatel in

Miami.

DIAZ furnished information

regarding specific?)

details of PIMENTEL's activities

which can be located in the

case

entitled Ricardo Porfiorio Pimentel y Roger

ake, IS

CUBA.

DIAZ also furnished information regarding

RANDOLFO, COSSIO; Cuban Alx Attache, Miami International

Airport, I

Miami, Florida, and ARMANDO LOPEZ,

FAR Sergeant

assigned to the Cuban Air Attache's Office

It is commonly recognized that the FAR has been-ther

center of defection within the Cuban Armed Forces following

the arrival of PEDRO LUIS DIAZ/LANZ, former Chief of the FAR

in the United States on July 1, 1959. DIAZ was in a position

during that critical period to

furnish information regarding

the widespread purge which occurred at the direction of

FIDEL CASTRO and RAUL CASTRO, following the defection of

PEDRO PIAZ and his brother, MARCOS DIAZ, former Inspector

General of the far. dulliteraldfide

On September 17, 1959, DIAZ through a personal

conversation with the Chief of the Cuban National Police

EFIGENIO AMEIJEIRAS provided confirmation of the fact that

= 3 =

NW 54460 DooId: 32328550 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 134-368

FERNANDO COBA had tricked RAFAEL DEL RINO into flying to

Cuba on July 25, 1959, where the Cuban Police were waiting

in ambush for them.

It is pointed out that investigation

concerning the circumstances of this flight was

the subject

of considerable time and effort on the part of the Miami

Office, which investigation can be located in the file

relating to FERNANDO FUENTES/COBA. First-hand information,

Eurosuch as that furnished by DIAZ, resulted in a significant

saving of time and money on the part of the FBi. It is

also pointed out that information furnished by DIAZ in the

past has been furnished with his complete cooperation and,

that at no time has payment either been requested by DIAZ

or mentioned by agents of the Miami Office.

Information

furnished by DIAZ was completely voluntary.

DIAZ has also furnished information concerning

such individuals as JOSE PAULA, ALONSO HIDALGO, RAMIRO

VALDES, BLAS ROCA, JOSE RAMOS, EFRON PICHARDO,

CARLOS PRIO

SOCARRAS, JUAN ALMEIDA, VINCENT HANARD, and numerous

individuals within the Cuban Government.

Concerning DIAZ's association with CARLOS/PRIO.

"SOCARRAS, DIAZ stated he met PRIO in Miami in approximately

1957, and is a close personal friend of PRIO: DIAZ said

that in the latter part of 1957, he purchased three F=1

airplanes in Phoenix, Arizona,.

in the name of the, Golden

States; however, DIAZ refused." Approximately one year later

these planes were destroyed by fire while on the ground at

an airport in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. DIAZ said that he is

still a friend of PRIO since

he feels that PRIO definitely

is anti-Communist; however, he stated that the former Cuban

Government under the direction of PRIO was totally corrupt

and injurious to Cuba.

0J919961

NW 54460 DooId: 32328550

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 134-368

SEGREE

Information furnished by DIAZ is too numerous

to set forth in letter form, however, the above summary

should indicate to the Bureau the importance of the

information which this PSI has furnished.

The Miami Office has kept in mind the possibility

that DIAZ may be a plant or may be cooperating with the

FBI for the purpose of protecting his citizenship.

The

Miami Office also has realized that DIAZ or anyother source

or intormant

in the field of Latin American affairs may

possibly use his association with the FBI to his own advantage

at some future date...

It is further recognized that a

great many individuals who furnish information to the

FBI may

have an ulterior motive in doing so, that they may be

opportunists or mercenaries and that the furnishing of

information might be a self-serving action. Information

furnished by DIAZ, however, has been found to be reliable

and has enabled the Bureau

to keep abreast of the Cuban

situation at those times when DIAZ happened, by virtue of

his position, to be within the focus of attention.

No

promises, payments, or written records were furnished to

this informant in return for his voluntary cooperation.

In view of DIAz's present position with Cubana

Airlines, he has lost a large degree of his former potential

as an informant of Latin American matters and accordingly,

no further action is being taken toward his development

as a PSI; however, UACB, DIAZ will be recontacted from time

to time as a source of information and in regard to specific

matters which may arise, such as request for information set

forth in Bureau teletype dated November 12, 1959, regarding

the influx of several thousand leaflets published by the

Cuban Government regarding the recent leaflet flight by

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, et al. These leaflets allegedly arrived

in the United States

by Cubana Airlines.

- 5

NW 54460 DooId: 32328550 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 134-368

SECRET

UACB, no further investigation will be undertaken

regarding the Registration Act case concerning subject, in

view of his resignation from the FAR.

147 SECRED

• 6 .

NH 54460

DocId: 32328550

Page 7

---

