# docid-32313324

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10327-10060

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 67-171516-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FEENEY

TO: CALLAHAN

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1973

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32313321 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

, MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. Callahan

DATE:

3/15/73

FROM

:T. J. Feeney

SUBJECT: SA W. MARVIN GHEESTING

Supervisor - Desk 5-4

Detroit Office

Veteran

Mr. Felt

Mr. Baker

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Cleveland

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Gebhardt

Mr. Jenkins --

Mr. Marshall

Mr. Miller, E.S. -

Mr. Soyars

Mr. Thompson -

Mr. Walters

Tele. Room

Mr. Kinley

Mr. Armstrong

Mr. Bowers

Mr. Herington -

Ms. Herwig -

Mr. Mintz

Mrs. Neenan

PERMANENT BRIEF

Entered on Duty

Military Leave

Appointed Special Agent

Reported to Field

Present Grade and Salary

Last Salary Change

Age

Place of Birth

Marital Status

Education

Language Ability

Offices of Preference since 6/72

1972 Annual Performance Rating

Firearms Ability

Outstanding Endorsers

Relatives in Bureau

Offices of Assignment:

2/2/51

assigned

12/7/51

reported

10/4/54

reported

8/1/60

reported

11/7/64

reported

3/3/41 - Messenger

12/13/44 to

6/3/46

12/18/50

2/2/51

GS-14,

$28,478

1/7/73 - Basic Increase

52 - Born 2/25/1921

Marina Geogra

- 4 Children

Bachelor of Arts Degree

None

Alexandria, Atlanta

EXCELLENT

Qualified

None

None

Philadelphia

Cleveland

Washington Field

Domestic Intelligence Division

Detroit

CLASSIRIED BYSIC& SLO,Ga

DECLASSIFY ON

N: 25x CHE

3/53/99

LLD/med (1)

DocId: 32313324 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

On 3-31-66 he was rated EXCELLENT and it was stated he continued in

assignment on the S-l Squad handling foreign intelligence, sabotage and

related matters of a security nature. He was among the high producers

in the office, his reports and other

correspondence were accurate, he was

enthusiastic, his cases were administered in a practically flawless

manner and during the rating period he made a number of highly delicate

interviews in an outstanding manner, showing considerable forcefulness

tempered with discretion and good judgment.

He could handle the most

complicated investigative matters and required minimum of supervision.

He had not proposed names of any applicants, but made a number of

interviews and his efforts were considered satisfactory.

On dangerous

assignments he was alett; showed tremendous initiative and was an asset.

He developed I Security Informant and had 2 Potentials under development.

he was interested in, available for and considered completely qualified

at this time for administrative advancement. His qualifications were

considered Outstanding.

His daily average overtime for March, 1966 was 2 hours 33 minutes s

April, 2 hours 6 minutes.

On 4-1-66 his SAC recommended he be designated a Relief Supervisor;:

however, by letter 5-0-06 he was advised SA Gheesling was not approved

in view of the severe administrative action taken against him

in the past.

His daily average overtime for May, 1966, 2. hours 17 minutes; June,

2 hours 4 minutes; July, 2 hours 36 minutes:

On 7-3-66 he received a Basic Salary Increase to $17,198 per annum

in GS-14.

ep tember,

His daily average overtime for August, 1966, 2 hours 24 minutes;

September, 2 hours 5 minutes; October, 2 hours 10 minutes.

By letter dated 10-12-66 he received an INCENTIVE AWARD in the amount

of $150.00 in recognition of his outstanding performance in developing

and handling a confidential source of information of importance to the

Bureau in the security field. (Re: AQUILA), Internal Security - Czech).

His daily average overtime for November,

3 hours 1 minute;

2 hours 25 minutes; March, 2 hours 5 minutes.

On 3-31-67 he was rated EXCELLENT and comments indicated he was assigned

to the S-l squad handling foreign intelligence investigations and

related matters. He would handle the most sensitive and delicate

CECRE

-20-

DocId:32313324 Page 3

---

