# docid-32161733

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Notes DATE: 11-11-2817

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10144-10094

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-5057

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. NY

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/22/1967

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: JFK, REACTION TO ASSA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/14/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

DocId: 32161733 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under

the John F.

Hote gu

DATE:

11-14-2017

-22-64)

D

6- terma.o

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC,210)

FBI

Transmit the following

СНА НіД

AIRTEL

Via

Date:

3/22/67

SECRE

Tole in plaintext or code)

AND/OR,

_INLINIS DOCLUENE.

I T5-18-4900 KS1 6-15-48

(JFK)

MI.

Tolson.~

Mr.

DeLoack.

Mr. Mohr

MI.

Wick

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.-

Mr. Felt..

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Suthvan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

MISS HiTs.

Miss Gandy...

Relian

1 4/1/0/1

Gwwes.coo

as Olatod

U008

FROM:

FBI (62-109060)

RODISR 9-25-93

SAC, NEW YORK (89-75)

INFORMATION

NANCES IS UNCEANST GIED

5X02 PRAERE SHOWN

D1:22KLSL

RID

2175

Let to

zet

Ranti to

SUBJECT: ASHA SINTERAL NEDDENT

DALLAS,

11/22/63

MISC INFORMATION CONCERNING

(00: Dallas)

1803RDD/145K

9-25-43

5/4/93

JFK

Classified by 9803 rdd/gel

Declassify on DADFASTER

1

Braing in to sullian

• Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are

copies and for Dallas two, copies of a LHM, setting

forth information concerning the, assassination

of President JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY and observations

HARVEY OSWALD as furnished.by

29,

NESS and Mr. THOMAS RYAN of the

19678]

Central Intelligence Agency.

(8)(

the confidential informant

TTi.

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

LHM is classified "

wil" since

it reflects information from a highly sensitive

source and the disclosure of such information could

possibly jeopardize the

(3-Bureau (Encls. 10)

2-Dallas (89-43) (Encls. 2) (RM)

1-New York

1/4/6

TDJB : mjb

REC 32

+2-109060-5057

18 MÁR 23 1967

Ar. 17 1967

X 106

62 АР8 211967 031

Approved:

Specigl Agent in Charge

¡ Co end retarif 8'8 pel

DocId: 32161733 Page 2

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC,2107

NY 89-43

SECRET

here should be no dissemination of th

ontents of the enclosed LHM from NY 5812-S* outsid

the Bureau without Bureau authorization.

CAUTION MUST BE EXERCISED IN HANDLING INFORMATION

RECEIVED FROM/NY 5812-S4| AND NO ACTION TAKEN WHICH COULD

[s]

CONCEIVABLY JEOPARDIZE THE SECURITY OF THIS HIGHLY

SENSITIVE INFORMANT.

- 2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32161733

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-'Released

under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992|T4T 195€

Mote) .

•DATE: 11-14-2017

Slitt I

UNTID STATUTE

MENT OF JUS-ICE

2487

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr._

Mr. Wick

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

'EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mr. Felt:

letTo.rk. -Hes Yank

-opo

March-22, 1967

94,1967

Mr. Gale…

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

NATION CONTAINED

SUCENSELF EED

SHONAN

ALT

HEREMIA

itterhend

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

establishi

Assassination of President

John Fitzgerald Kennedy

Dallas, Texas

November 22, 1963

A confidential informant;

to furnish peltebbe inst

mation bet contact with whom has

been insufficient to detorminethufeliability,ofts

with the assassination of President John Fitzgerald

Kennedy, It was concluded by the KGB Headquarters in

Moscow,that he was killed by representatives of a group of ke

monopolists connected with the south and the east of

the United States.

This group of monopolists, koo

characterized as the military-industrial complexy an

felt

Hurt these interest, and therefore i us sino,

Informant advised that this conclusion was

drawn after the KGB had spent between six months and

a year

to study information to determine the cause of the

• assassination.

Source stated that the most reliable

KGB agents in the world were mobilized, in addition to

other official contacts in order to gather, in a wide

scope, informatign

assassination.

concering the reason for the

ROBE

Classi

Decks

A group of officers under tess!

carefully gathered the information and conducted extensive

research and analysis and came to the conclusion that it was

deem it kennedy tal complex who were responsible for

CLASSIFIED BY 5668SLD/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X()/6

(FFIC) 11/13/46

Sourge

-neT

dent

a VaSHT L APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

Chief AND

TAND OFFICES

Information

Section

ADVISED

BY ROUTA

I De part

central SLIPS

Co

the

ComTuna

insons (X) M1

1 OF DATE

it contains neither recommendations

hones to vold dueside our agenes

CONPEDI

ENTA- SEORET

iad br

2040 V

MODE

1161

fille

5/R

83

¿ Date of

ouC

6/29/27

deme

DocId: 32161733

Page 4

---

