# docid-32340402

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90158-10059

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-228-1377

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 12/05/1969

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LUIS POSADA

FORIEGN POLITICAL MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: MEMO

N9.1

14 55271

DocId: 32340402

Page

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION'

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

'SECRET

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-228)

CLASSIFIED BY S66X SLA/ma

JSÁC, MIAMI (105-1729) DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

5FK

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS -- VENEZUELA

INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA

CIA HAS NO, OSJECTION TO

DECLASSIRCATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR

BRACKETS

DATE: KP DEC - 9-%

5 1969

spar

mAC

#211,326

MULTIPS

SOURCE

Classified by 2e

Declassify on: OA82

28

Re Bureau letter

enclosures.

to Miami, 10/2/69 with

AND INFORMATION CONTATNE

STRIED

OTHERWISE

Enclosed for Bureau are 9 copies of an

LHM setting forth results of investigation by Miami

regarding possible recruiting activities of

Venezuelan officials. No local dissemination is

being made.

The LHM is classified "Secret - No

Foreign Dissemination; Controlled Dissemination;

No Dissemination Abroad", since it includes information

from Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) so classified.

The sources are identified as follows

INNCL TIRED

Phate S

CC TO:

REQ. RECID

MAK 11 ,976

ANS.

BY: ABo

BE: ORLANDO GARCIASeventh source-

VAZQUEZ

Second Source - MM

Third Source

Fourth Source

-KVM 1154-SXC)

Fifth source

Sixth source

JEK Act 6 (4)

Key source -

Cuba

JFK Act 6 (4)

518 E. 21st St., Hialeah,

JEK Act 6 (4) of ORLANDO GARCIA

VAZQUEZ (protect by request)

pegg

for ro

ASCA-

The following informants were contacted

negatively with regard to this investigation.

12

Bureau (Enc 9) (RM):

REG 58

1 092-125-13771

(1-64-36297) (ORLANDO GARCIA VAZQUEZ)

2 - Miami

(1-64-12

CORGANDO

_GARCIA

VAZQUEZ)

16 DEC & 1969

JCB/£p

CIA.

: keierence

(5)

(54)(4)

Espy 483

IRen 15/ailtr

GIA/Stato/RAD (ISD

you 70 0 8, 28, 305

9-27-64

MIC

(by diaisor)

/0S1/ASCI /DIA

SERI

1419)

HH 552715000Id:32340402

Page 2

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

IMPRICAN

FLATBRE

REVERSE

SIDIVOR

CLASFIFICATION

ORION

---

## Page 3

SECRETI

MM 105-1729

MM 776-S

contacted October 15, 1969

by SA PETER

J. NERO

Montactes tober 21, 1969

SA WILLIAM W. STEVENS

Contacted November 7, 1969

SA VINCENT J. WARGER

MM 974-S

contacted October 23, 1969

SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR.

AMM 1289-SV (C

contacted

October 7, 1969

SA SAMUEL W. JONES

MM 635-S

contacted October 7, 1969

SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Key source,

JFK Act 6 (4)

contacted

October 7,

1969

SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER

PSI

JEK-Act 6(4)

contacted October 24, 1969

SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING

' A review of the Miami file regarding

ORLANDO GARCIA VAZQUEZ reveäls he was born in Cuba

in 1927 and served in the U.S. Army from 1945 to

1947, during which time he obtained U.S. citizenship.

He thereafter returned to Cuba and attended the

University of Havana under the G.I. Bill and

during this period was reportedly active in an

- 2 -

(SECRET

HH 55271

DocId:32340402

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

MM 105-1729

anti-Communist group. He was a member of the Cuban

Secret Police under former President CARLOS PRIO

(1948-52) and later opposed the BATISTA regime in

Cuba and the TRUJILLO in the Dominican Republic.

He served with FIDEL CASTRO as civil attache at

the Cuban Embassy in Costa Rica until March, 1960

when he was discharged for his admitted "reactionary

attitude" and friendship with former Costa Rican

President JOSE FIGURES. He subsequently moved

to venezuela obtainins Venezuelan eirsenahiforeren

1962 and has since served in the Venezuelan

Ministry and worked with the Venezuelan National

Police (DIGEPOL). He reportedly served as body

guard for former Presidents BETANCOURT and LEONI of

Venezuela as

well as JOSE FIGUERES of Costa Rica.

A 1960 allegation that GARCIA was a

CASTRO agent in Miami was resolved

RAs of

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

1965

and there is no

indication (S)

at this time of a change of this status.

It is apparent from above that GARCIA is

highly placed in the Venezuelan Government and is

anti-Communist in ideology. He has long been

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Miami feels

E]E]

no additional investigation is necessary and is closing

its case on GARCIA.

It is noted the Miami Office is in contact

with LESLIE LLOYD ANDREWS, GARCIA's stepson who is

is under development as a PSI in Venezuelan matters

and may obtain information regarding GARCIA"sifuture

trips to Miami.

- 3 -

SECRETI

NH 55271 DocId: 32340402 Page 4

---

