# docid-32319334

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

UsC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10368-10468

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-146

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

US SENATE

TITLE :

DATE: 06/21/1994

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32319334

Page 1

99

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):'

DATE: 11-14-2017

310

U.S. Department of Justice

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Washington, D. C. 20535

June 21, 1994

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Honorable John Glenn

Chairman

Government Affairs Committee

United States Senate

washington,

D.C: 20510

Dear Mr. Chairman:

GIFK

"JEKARCA of 1992

I am writing on behalf of Director Louis J. Freeh to

inform you of the status of the FBI's response to the "president

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992"

(the Act), and to provide projections regarding completion of the

work that remains to be done pursuant to the Act.

This letter

reiterates much of the information conveyed to Ms. Diane Merritt

of the staff of the Regulation and Government Information

Subcommittee (RGIS) by FBI JFK Task Force Director Terry T.

o'Connor in a meeting on June 16, 1994, and a telephone

conversation on June 20, 1994.

The FBI has been committed to a speedy and full

response to the Act and, to date, has transferred 463,395 pages

of JFK documents to the National Archives and Records

Administration (NARA). This represents almost half of the nearly

one million pages of

assassination-related documents that the

Task Force can now estimate have been in FBI files. The files

that have been transferred include all Lee Harvey Oswald, Jack

Ruby, "related subjects" (e.g. Marina Oswald), and Warren

Commission files, as well

President Kennedy's Assassination that were maintained at FBI

Headquarters and in the FBI's Dallas and New Orleans Field

offices.

6219-143-1024225-146

62А-HQ-1029205

Dep. Dir.

ADD Adm.

1 - Mr. Binney,

Rm. 7142

2 - Mr. Collingwood,

Rm. 7240

ADD Inv._

1

Asst. Dir.:

- Mr. R. Bucknam,

RM.

7176

(1 - Mr. Bas,

Rm. 7240)

Adm. Servs.

- Mr. Shapiro, Rm. 7427

1 - IRD Front Office, Rm.

5829

Crim. Inv.u

CJIS

Mr. J. Bucknam,

Rm.

7176

1 - Mr. O'Connor, RM. 6712

Info. Migmt.

-

Miss Gawley, Rm. 7176

1

- Mr. Gardner, Rm. 6712

Insp.

Intell.

Mr. St. Dennis,

Rm. 7176

1

- Mr. Harmon,

Rm. 6712

Lab.

1

Legal Coun

- Mrs. Siford/Mrs. Leeper,

Rm.

7176

Tech. Servs.

Training

ROVED:

Crim. Inv.

Laboratory.

Oft. of EEO

Off. of EEOA

Off. Liaison

& Int. Affs.

7709x) (26)

Off. of Public

Delored IM

WEB/S MEn

Crim.Jus. Info.

Legal Counsel

Affairs

National Sec.

Off. of Public

Personnel

& Cong. Atis.

& Cong. Affs.

TQM Office

FBI COuTiET

mid. lied.

Training.

Telephone Rm.

6/22194 OPCA

Deputy Director_

Inspection

Director's Office_

MAILROOM O

DocId: 32319334 Page 2

15L

FBI/DOJ

---

