# docid-32305314

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10444

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-1ST NR 329

Released under the John

E. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NU 54027 Date:

08-28-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/29/1967

3

MIRR, CUBAN EXILES, RALLY, OBA, ASSOC, ARRESTED

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

26

DooId: 32305314

Page

1

---

## Page 2

4=3 (Rev. 1-27-661

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

DECODED COPY

O AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

*X TELETYPE

3828 AN EBT URGENT 9-29-67 ATE

TO DIRESTOR

ROM MPASt.

290630

ms lethare

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/20/%.

BYSP BJAGC

BARCO DE LIBERACION DE CUBA JOSE MARTI (JOSE MARTY CUBAN

LIBERATION BANK) INTERNAL SEGURITY-DUBA.

A SOURCE WHO IS A CUBAN EXILE AND WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN THE PAST ON JANUARY 28, 1967 ADVISED AS FOLLONSE

ON JANUARY 28, 5967 AT 8230-PU A RALLY MAS HELD AT THE

MIANS STADIUM, UNAMI FLORIDA,: ABOUT 44,000 GUBAN EXILES

ATTENDED. THE ONLY SPEAKER WAS OR ENRIQUE: HUERTA. ON THE

SPEAKERS PLATFORM WERE REPRESENTATIVES OF COSTA RICA, VENEZUELA,

PERUS AND NIDARABUA.. HUERTAR READ TELEGRAMS FROM THE MAYOR OF

BM AMI.

ROHEAT KING HIGH AND PRESIDENT NO

THERE WERE. NO

CON THE SPEAKER*S PLATFORM, MULETAS BROKE ON UNITY

M EXILES AND ASKED SUPPORT FROM THE 21 LATIN- AMERICAN

REPUBLICS

ICATOBAN EXILS APPEARED

TO UNFUR LEBA

Оска 10100 714: 1/35/55

97-44743

DED

201 FEs 8 1967

ORIGINAT FILID IN

Maplea

D.I FEB 151050

HEMAT EIN

Il the intelligence contained in the above message in to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it in suggeated that it be suitabl.

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

54027 DocId: 32305314

Page

. 2.

---

## Page 3

4-3 (Rev. 1-27-66)

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

D CABLEGRAM • RADIO

PAGE TOO FROM LIAR 290630

*X TELETYPE

Tolson -

DeLoach

Monr

Wick

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy -

THE HEAD OF AN INDEPENDENT ANTI COSTRO ORGANIZATION MOVIENTO

INSURRECTIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA. THEY VERE

ISIFDIATELY APRESTED BY POLICE AND RELOVED FROM THE STADIU!I.

BOSCH CLINED UPON THE SPEAKERS STAND AND TRIED TO MAKE A

SPEECH. HE WAS STOPPED BY HUERTAS• AN ARGUMENT BETWEEN 30SCH

AND HUERTAS FOLLOWED AND THE CROWD IN THE STADIUM STARTED

TO BECOME RESTLESS, ISPATIENT, AND FIGHTS STÁTED.

HUERTAS THEN ALLOWED BOSCH TO MAKE A PRESENTATION TO

DR EDUARDO RITTER AISLAND, PANALFANIAN ABASSADOR TO THE

ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES, AND THE CROWD QUIETED

DO!IN THE RALLY TERETINATED AT ABOUT 10:15 PM WITH NO FURTHER

INCIDENTS.

ADIINISTRATIVE

THE SOURCE L'AS IN 635-S. TELETYPE BEING CLASSIFIED

'CoMMendEl TO PROTECT SOURCE OF CONTINUING VALUE.

SUCOP

CEIVED: 3:49 AM LRA

1 Merelligene cot pred in the sure messype rap be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is subtested that it be suitably

54027 DocId: 32305314

Page

---

