# docid-32302421

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10281-10141

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-1203

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DAVE DONE AME

TITLE:

DATE: 05/06/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

EW, ASSOC, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32302421

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: +11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

SECRET

CON IDLINTIAL

INFORMANTS

Location of Original Information

Identity

MM T-1 is MARIA

SOLEDAD ALBA,

727 East DiLido

Drive, DiLido

Island, Miami Beach,

Fla.

105-2354-35

MM T-2 is

/[MM 709-5*

# (5)

MM T-3 is RUDOLPH

FERNANDEZ aide and

interpreter to FRANCISCO

CAJIGAS and General PEDRAZA,

Atlanta, Ga.

105-2354-41.

MM 1-44

IS MM 639-S

134-238

MM T-5 is AL MANHEIM, Miami,

private Instant report, page_33

investigator and formerly registered agent of Cuba.

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "T" symbols were

utilized only in those instances where identities must

be concealed.

- C* -

COVER PAGE

CANTInE

SECRET

DocId: 32302421 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 late).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

• FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

813194

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICEDTHERWISE

Classified by 05 RMA lECL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Declassify on.'

'OADR. JAIL

1

- INS, Miami

(RM)

1

• US Customs, Miami (RM )

Copy to:

1

• US Border Patrol, Miami

(RM)

DeclassH)

DA

14-85

SEGRET

Report of:

Date:

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Office.

MAY 6

1960

SES

R37DSS3

MIAMI, FLORIDA

Field Office File #:

105-1742

S

CI.A

Bureau File

109-584

ION

Title:

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

TRICES

AND I L

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

TLC

ADVISED S

Crensated by. 2010

W/72

20

Exemot from

on Indor

Character:

Dominican Republic

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Dice, D.C. Florida

nIcaraana

Cuba

Synopsis:

dose

On 2/23/60, Gen. JOSE E PEDRAZA arrived in the U.S.

with

MANUEL PEREZ SOSA of ther

Dominican Republic. (DR)

PEDRAZA visited NYC and Washington, Da far

where he

conferred with FRANCISCO CAJIGAS and

CARLOS MARQUEZ

‹Junta

florida!

(STERLING. PEDRAZA said he has about 100 men in DR and Cubana Un

Cuba

presumes Gen. TRUJILLO feels he has some control over

PEDRAZA's group. PEDRAZA decided on CAJIGAS as

political leader of anti-CASTRO movement and received

Resides

pledges of support from anti-CASTRO organizations.

Leading Cuban political figures in Miami stated PEDRAZA

Demunican,

in constant company of PEREZ SOSA; which was interpreted

as DR control of anti-CASTRO movement. PEDRAZA denied

being under DR influence, and said he was in Miami to

determine strength of movement for future utilization.

Deminisan

Q

nu

On 3/17/60, US Department of Justice intended to solicit

registration of PEDRAZA under Foreign Agents Registration

Act of 1938, as amended. [on 3/21/60, Cuban, Government

planned to request extradition of PEDRAZA > On 3/23/60,

PEDRAZA returned to DR.

Some leading Cuban

figures said

CAJIGAS was not acceptable as political leader of movement.

On 3/17/60, some 20 Cuban leaders reportedly met and

109-584-1205

accepted CAJIGAS as political leader. NUNEZ PORTUONDO

said he wanted no active part and was not for or against

unified movement:

MARQUEZ STERLING said he should be named

Provisional Presídent.

Some political leaders think

MARQUEZ would be promoted by FULGENCIO BATISTA as political

head of movement.

PEDRAZA was to go to Nicaragua on

4/27 or 28/60,

concerning formation of a base in Nicaragua.

ECRET

This document contatns neither recommendations nor comet

vousaoendv.landlts.contents_are.not_tc._he_distrihuted.

MAN BlyzIt Is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

DocId: 32302421

Page 3

---

