# docid-32307216

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10356

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-5327-3876

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/28/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, JHO, LEGAL EXPENSES, LOAN, TEAMSTERS

OFFICIALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT •

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32307216

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

er the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colfection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

ATE: 11-14-2017

-OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

.1.=

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

553,

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-5327)

DATE:

7/28/64

SAC, NEW YORK (62-12235)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

NY 2305-C was contacted on 7/24 and 27/64 and

furnished the following which is being set out for information

of the Bureau:

Re:

EMANUEL

CELLER

N

Informant advised that he spoke to Representative

EMANUEL CELLER last week and asked him if the House Judiciary

Committee was pushing their inquiry into the Justice Department

methods of handling the HOFFA investigations.. CELLER told the

informant that he had no intention of conducting any inquiries

until after ROBERT KENNEDY leaves office as Attorney General.

The informant then said,

"If Kennedy is nominated and becomes

vice president, we probably will never get the hearings"

CELLER indicated that this would probably be true.

Informant also advised he was in Chicago when HOFFA

was discussing CELLER's committee with SIDNEY ZAGRI, legislative

representative of the Teamsters.

ZAGRI was attempting to

convince HOFFA that CELLER's committee would shortly commence

an inquiry into the Justice Department, but HOFFA cut him short

and indicated that this talk makes for publicity, but he knew,

infact,

that CELLER would not conduct any hearings as long

as KENNEDY was in a position to "hit back at Celler"

Re:

JOHN

0 ' ROURKE

Informant advised he has spent considerable time

with O'ROURKE recently and O'ROURKE has reversed many of his

Bureau (63-5327): WiencE REC-64

6353273876

1

New York

1 - New Yondr

137-3504)

(62-12235)

30

WAV: pcs

(4)

AME

bligT-104

1 JUL 29 1964

1964

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32307216

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 62-12235

positions concerning HOFFA and operation of the International

Union.

O'ROURKE has been instrumental in getting all

officials of Teamsters Joint Council 16 to make personal

loans to JAMES HOFFA in amounts varying from five hundred

dollars to one thousand dollars each.

These loans are to

assist HOFFA with his legal expenses.

Ny Informant advised that O'ROURKE has become very

handling PROVENZANO's court appeal. Informant speculated

that O'ROURKE and PROVENZANO have Joined forces with JOHN.:

BACKHUS, an International Vice President of the Teamsters

from Philadelphia, to form an Eastern bloc in the event

there is a struggle for power in the Teamsters International

union.

Re: BERNARD SPINDEL

Iniormant spoke to BERNARD SPINDEL last week and

SPINDEL told him that he has not yet received full payment

from HOFFA and CHUCK O'BRIEN for his work in Nashville and

Chatanooga. He told this source when they spoke that he was

going to Chicago. The informant asked him if he was bringing i ?

any of his sound equipment and SPINDEL replied that he was not.-:

Informant was of the opinion that SPINDEL was going to Chicago

to try to get additional funds from HOFFA.

EXTREME CAUTION MUST BE USED IF ANY OF THE ABOVE

INFORMATION IS TO BE DISSEMINATED.

-2-

DocId: 32307216 Page 3

---

