# docid-32332048

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

Released under the John

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90100-10266

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 52-72398-201

Case#:NU 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

Cv

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/02/1959

33

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32332048

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

CV 52-1918

COPIES

Bureau (52-72398)

G-2, Headquarters,

Second U. S. Army,

Fort George G. Meade, Maryland

Miami (52-3290) (Info.)

-

New York (Info.)

(1 - 52-5814)

(1- 105-26980)

3

!

- Pittsburgh (Info.) (52-1687)

(1 - USA, Fairmont, West Virginia)

(1 - USA, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)

3 - Cleveland

(52-1918)

(1 - 105-2820).

LEADS

Due to the complex nature of this case, all offices

conducting investigation are requested to submit results in

report form so as

to keep the Bureau advised of current

developments.

Copies of this report are being designated for

' Miami, New York and Pittsburgh Offices in view of the ex-

tensive investigation being conducted by those Offices.

CLEVELAND

At Cleveland, Ohio:

*Will advise Detroit, Chicago, Louisville and Wash-

ington Field Offices when stops may be removed concerning

stolen weapons.

ADMINISTRATIVE

On August 14, 1959, SA HARRY S. MILLER displayed a

photograph of SAMUEL MANNARINO to CV-251-C who stated he. does

not know MANNARINo, although he had heard of him.

A

COVER PAGE

NW 54027 DooId:32332048 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 52-1918

Informant stated that he knows SANDY NAPLES quite

well and that to his knowledge, NAPLES has not been in Canton

for approximately ten years.

He stated he occasionally

speäks to NAPLES on the telephone and invites him to come to

Canton, but that NAPLES always claims that he is too busy.

Informant stated he feels certain that NAPLES was

not involved in the actual robbery inasmuch as he believed

he would have heard of it

had he been so involved.

Informant stated that he knows as a fact that

GEORGE MIKE FLOREA of Canton Knows NAPLES.

Informant stated he has never received any infor-

mation as to who was responsible for the actual robbery at

the National Guard Armory and that he never received any

information as to who may have engineered the robbery.

- .

B

-

COVER PAGE

HH 54027

DooId:32332048 Page 3

---

