# docid-32333634

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90107-10217

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/09/1963

PAGES:

13

' SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMANDOS L-66

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : ' INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

y9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333634

Page 1

98

---

## Page 2

FD-263- (Rev. 3-1-55)

REPORTING OFFICE

WASHING'TON

SECRET:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

INVESTIOATNC MOND

3/28 - 4/5/63

FIELD

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAME

DATE

APR :9.1963

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

COMANDOS I 66, INCORPORATO

HAROLD RUBENSTEIN

MAL

TYPED BY

bmh/skh

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIRIGATION AND/OR,

IS - CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

RA - CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT, KP 3-19-98

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Slestone 4-18-95/5774

bassined

ALL

CONTAIN

REFERENCES

Padlaszily oe

ENGI

WFOairtel dated 4/1/63,

captioned as above.

WFOairtels dated 4/2 and 4/3/63, captioned

"OPERATION ALPHA 66,

IS - CUBA,

RA - CUBA,

NEUTRALITY MATTERS"

(Bufile 105112098):

- P -

CLASS.

12-53-80

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

REACON

Referenced WEO airtels dated 4/2/63-Jnd 23/63. cantioned

Overation Alpha 66, set forth the interviews

MOTHER 4

and EMILIO ANTONIO BROUWER y LEGANUA, Mentioned

in referenced WFO airtel dated 4/1/63.

The interviewees: mentioned in all referenced WFO

airtels, were unable to furnish pertinent information

concerning captioned matter.

DECLASSIFIED BY

SPECIAL AGENT

0M 3-27-98

JFk

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

APPROVED

COPIÉS MADE:

A6/qu

9

Bureau (105-117222)

2

- Miami (105-7054) (RM)

1 - New York (105-60079)

(Info) (RM)

2

- San Juan (105-6323) (RM)

2

*Washington Field (105-52201)

105-027

-6st

3 APR JI 1963

KEG Z

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

1849/e0

Copy to;

CIA/State

RAt

ONT/OST ACSI, INS

DIAS

by routing clip for

nfo.

Cisims; Const

Date 4-12 - 63

by KHN/SI

257

67 APR 2 4 1963

Notations

riapter

SECR

LET

NAT. IN

SEC!

CONF

VEN HA

NW 45773 DocId: 32333634

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

WFO 105-52201

HR: bmh/skh

It is noted that CIA letter dated 1/22/63,

captioned,

reveals that this group is referred to "as Command L,

Commando Ponce, and L 66."

The letter further lists

ANTONIO CARASA as a delegate in Wash denied that he has

interview with CARASA on 3/29/63, he

ever accepted any formal nomination as a representative in

the Wash., D.C., area of Operation Alpha 66 or of any

other similar organization of Cuban exiles.

& (1)

Inasmuch as San Juan radiogram dated 3/29/63,

captioned as above reveals that captioned organizations ha:

seen incorporated under the above described name, it 1:

Iikewise being set forth as the true titie in 'instant

report.

WFO source of information,

furnished the document set forth in the report,

explaining

that he was unable to recall where he obtained

this document.

It is noted that the original document (an

electrostatic copy of which has been made and retained in

captioned file) was returned to

and the

translation made by SA MIKE G.

ZINCK.

- 4

INFORMANTS

WF T-] Is

Source of

Information, (protect

by request), instant report pages

2 - 10.

LEADS

SAN JUAN DIVISION

AT HATO REX, PUERTO RICO

Will attempt to identify the person or persons

responsible for the rental of Post Office Box 984.

- B-

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

SECHET

• CANERENTIAL

NW 45773 DocId: 32333634 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEORET

WFO 105-52201

HR: bih/skh

CONSESNTIAL

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

AT WASHINGTON, D. C.

Will maintain contact with source of informatión

for any additional information concerning

captioned matter &

The report is being classified "Confidential" since

the data reported by the source utilized therein,

could

reasonably result/in the identification of a confidential

source of information of continuing value and jeopardize

future effectiveness thereof.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIA!

SECRET

NW 45773 DocId: 32333634 Page 4

---

