# docid-32290340

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10116

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2247

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/20/1969

1

SGI, ASSOC, ACT, FISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32290340

122

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GU, ERNMENT

Memorändum

TO

FROM

I GUNHIUENHAL

HAVE

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) Crested'by -

i 2 DATE: 3-205

DEBY ECR

69458L05

ATION

EGAT, MEXICO (92-13) (P)

CONSEN SAUR BION

Dedicac

3/22/84

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA,

aka

[ARIAN

DECT. ASSI

1618 RTR

'ON_

j. 8 EXT. BY:

A383 VRTIAO

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Remylet 2-28-69.4

SON-FCIM II,

TE OF REVIEW

13. 20030

DATE ENGLASSIFIED

BY ORMBIEN

PCI

advised 3-18-69 that throughout e

(JK) March of 1969

he has been making two and three trips a week

to Cuernavaca conducting surveillances of the house at

Nubes 'No.

2.

has seen no vehicles or any sign of activity

or occupancy

PRIATE AGEN

DFFICES

ADVIe.

On 3-15-69, he engaged a servant from the house in

a conversation on a pretext,

and she informed him that there

was no one currently in residence at the house.

She claimed

that two "viejitos" (old men) had been residing at the house,

but departed some time ago

Source advised that he has been developing contacts

among the Federal Judicial Police stationed in Cuernavaca.

noted that the local Cuernavaca Police have a reputation for

unreliability and, therefore,

he was hoping to develop a

contact among the

Federal Police to aid in this investigation

He will be continuing to make regular trips. to

Cuernavaca in this matter

and the Bureau and Origin will be

advised of developments MY

Mexico City

would like to be advised of results of

inquiry in Spain.

APPRWRINTE OUNCIES

AND FIEN

ERICOS

HENG

S. FLED

SHOWN

Bureau

(1 - Laison

Section)?bECIFIAB

HECEASE

(2 - Chicago,

92-349)

Mexico City

(1

RSC: wr

{137-168A)

(7)

histión

Pa

OTHERWISE

9 APR

110-108-02

REC. 22

з0c.

to medio hug

307

COADS A

STATED BY

EMPT FROM CIS

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on shesPayroll Savings Plan

ON INDIRINIAE

NW

45792 DocId: 32290340

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

