# docid-32327735

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90065-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-189975-144

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE : :1

DATE: 07/18/1970

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ALPHA SIXTY SIX

RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

H# 54462

Docid: 32327735

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Mr. Tolson

NROO1 MM CODE=

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

9: OSPM URGENT 7-18-TWEMWCOMMUNICATIONS SECTION

• TO DIRECTOR

JUL 1 8 1970

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Walters.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop-

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

FROM MIAMI

105-17725

Mr. Felt.

TELETYPE

Mr. Gale.

Kir. Rosen

Air sulliva

COAT

ALPHA

SIXTYSIX, IS - CUBA. NEUTRALITY MATTERS • MENCIE IS UMOLASSIFIED

an avel

Soyars_

Clas

175368 580

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

Fele. Room

Miss Holmes

GOGAWISE

MADRASEL

Miss Gandy

ANTI

CASTRO ORGANIZATION HEADQUARTERED

IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF ANDRES

NAZARIO

SARGEN. IT HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN SEVERAL RAIDS DIRECTED

AGAINST CUBA DURING THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS INCLUDING ONE UNDERE

IHE LEADERSHIP OF RAMON OROSCO

CRESPO, WHICH WAS INTERCEPTED

bX.

JULY SEVEN LASI BY U•S• COAST GUARD OFF THE

OSCOASI OF FLORIDA

NEAR MIAMI•

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

A MIAMI SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMAL GENE:

PAST AND UNO IS ACQUAINTED WITH SOME MEMBERS OF ALPHA SIXTYSIX

PORTED THAI OROSCO DISCLOSED ON JULY SIXTEENTH THAT HE IS

NSA

NOW WORKING ON A PLAN TO LAND A GROUP IN CUBA. ON JULY SIXTEENTH

OROSCO INDICATED SIMILAR INTENTIONS TO A SECOND SOURCE WHO IS REPTABL

B/ISD/USC6}

CATF

• Customs

COPY FILED

CC by RS

UNRECORDED

AND WHO IS ACQUAINIED WITH SOME MEMBERS OF ALPHA SIXTYSIX.

ON THE AFTERNOON OF JULY. EIGHTEEN A THIRD MIAMI SOURCE WHO HAS

TURNED CRANE ALLARE INPORMTION IT RESE UNO SIN E

QUAINTED WITH SOME MEMBERS OF THIS GROUP ADVISED tHAT ON

OF JULY EIGHTEEN OROSCO MET WITH À SMALL GROUP WHICH INCLUDED

• JUL 22 1970

OSTELABONZALEZ, REINO ODRIGUEZ, AND LORETONSANTIAGO, AS VELL AS

OTHER MEMBERS OF ALPHA SIXTYSIX SOROSCO ANNOUNCED THAT THIS GROUP SHOULD!

Ti: 30 PM

dancei

END PAGE ONE WORR

185-169S3TCARZGASPSE

GON

IDERATIAN

105489970

NW 54462 DooId: 32327735

Page 2

---

## Page 3

„PAGE IWO

BE READY TO DEPART AI A MOMENTS NOTICE

TO LAND AN. ALPHA SIXIYSIX

GROUP IN CUBA. HE ADVISED THAI A THIRTYONE FOOT BOAT, NOT

OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED, WOULD BE USED. HE INSTRUCTED ONE MEMBER OF

THIS GROUP TO CONTACI HIM AT EIGHT PM JULY EIGHTEENTH,

AT THE HOME OF OSIEL GONZALEZ. THE THIRD SOURCE RECEIVED THE IM -

PRESSION THAT THIS

OPERATION MIGHT TAKE PLACE SHORTLY AFTER EIGHT PM

JULY EIGHTEENTH OR THAT OROSCO MIGHT ISSUE ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS

AT THAT TIME I(R)(U)

U.S. COAST GUARD AND CUSTOMS AGENCY SERVICE, MIAMI, IMMEDIATELY

ALERTED.

OROSCO IS PRESENTLY OUT ON BOND HAVING BEEN CHARGED BY U.S.

CUSTOMS WITH MUNITIONS CONTROL VIOLATIONS AND BY IMMIGRATION AND

NATURALIZATIONS SERVICE, WITH DEPARTING THE UNITED STATES JULY

SEVEN LAST AFTER HAVING BEEN SERVED WITH "PREVENTION OF DEPARTURE"

NOTICE •

ADMINISTRATIVE -

RE MIAMI TEL TO BUREAU JULY SEVEN LAST.

FIRST MIAMI SOURCE IS MM - ONE THREE THREE SEVEN - S, SECOND

SOURCE RICARDO MOPALES LAVARETIE, KEY SOURCE

CUBAN

THIRD SOURCE IS UK TWO NINE SEVEN EIGHT -

PST, WHO HAS MOVED

TO MIAMI .]C)

MIAMI COORDINATING INVESTIGATION WITH U.S. COAST GUARD AND

CUSTOMS •

END PAGE TWO

CONFIDEMHA

HH 54462 DooId:32327735 Page 3

---

