# docid-32292622

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10398

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-316

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1961

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, TRA, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE, TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32292622 Page 1

330

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: "11-14-2017

_1-41 (ROv. 6-2-61) '

• Radio

Callahan

one consas

DECODED COPY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATEL 6-94

HEREIN IS UNGLAGSIFIED

* Teletype

_BYSPERJE

JUNE

# Malone

Rosen

*Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Ingram -

Gandy -

7-5-61

4-58 PM PDST RHK

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, LAS VEGAS

052315

SAMUEL M.

CHICAGO.

REMYTEL TODAY

AND LAS VEGAS TELEPHONE CALL TO THOMAS MC. ANDREWS, SPECIAL

LAS VEGAS

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION, TODAY. HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE,

LV,

ADVISED JULY 5 INSTANT SEVERAL ARTICLES OF MEN'S CLOTHING,

WHICH APPEAR TO BELONG TO SUBJECT, STILL. IN LARGE HOUSE

OCCUPIED BY SUBJECT AND PHYLISS MC GUIRE. IN VIEW OF THIS, LV

CONSIDERING POSSIBILITY SUBJECT MAY RETURN TO LV. BUREAU

AUTHORITY REQUESTED FOR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE OF SUBJECT'S

RESIDENCE, WHICH WILL BE MONITORED FROM APARTMENT PRESENTLY

UNDER CONTROL OF BUREAU. FULL SECURITY OF OPERATION IS

JASSURED: TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT REQUESTED DIRECT FROM LAB PER.:.

MINSTURCTIONS. VACBS INSTALLATION WILL BE MADE UPON ARRIVAL ÖF

NECESSARY EQUIPMENI.

GIANCANA ARMED AND DANGEROUS. CHICAGO

ADVISED A. M.

UNLESS ADVISED TO CONTRARY BY BUREAU

RECEIVED:

8:06 PM TELETYPE

8:10 PM CODING UNIT

MLL

tiL-LV,CG

766-61

REG

46

• 10

Lette

92-31:71-

-1-191

2O JUL 19 1961

316

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292622 Page 2

---

