# docid-32298574

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10350

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-1ST NR 279

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/13/1967

7

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

• y91

DocId: 32298574 Page 1

62

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

ПАТЕ: 11-14-2017

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/GaL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X, 0)(6)

(5F1) 6/59/98

(SECRET

i, Chicago (100-4185337(5)

(s,

12/19/0"

715.1424%

20, 200r7-

MAILAD A

DEC 1.4

Tolson

DeLoach

Moh:

Bishop

Casper

Colichan

Coured

Fei!

Goe

Sultsen

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Hoires

Condy.

30O Co

X0.25

Wagoner

2D

Thoapsor

100-

332235-3

Ryan

1/29/744

32203

Classieu

# (S)

D3CU0107

on DAOR

Reillairsel

11/15/67 zecommending One Ad Boc Conmittes

througt

Suw

Chorios

longes

estanlich contact with

., who bas been identified

the post with the Progroosive

Dabor

(PED)

lout who

so currontly roported in 100010g2ca1

dicuuta

NAth PLD leader Miltor Roaon.

The purpose of this contact

pound

.?to sock the support and guidance of Frank who has

asus donestic and foreign pro-Chicon contacts and to

bo ong-god in Chicon intelligence activities.

The contact

• vich

Tat Is vosy

Ikely may be the tirse step in the developacad of

3: 210102001

022 3d

32e

relationship beiwesn

the the and the Ats

22d

Chus

intelligonce posential of ints opentions,

The Buzeau concurs with the commonts and recommendation

c2 che Kew Yorks Office.

As noted

in renirtel

establishment of contact wit

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

the

minicant doneside pro-chicon party, does not appear

ca. Crow our intelligence interente and alco comd cause

¿ciore to be direcied

opedicas

cowards the bone sides of this

evarladle intertigence andicates

che Chicons desize

isole organdaations

to sook unity and conmon ideological

Conelotently, foreign pro-Ohicon contacte

domestic

contacts

contact with

the

PLP .

leader or tho

Canadian

rossive

Hockers

Movenent

waich te currentiy

*22 cement wich the 2L0

Line relating

Soviet

910

washerg

his

•nuance

recent letter to Che AndSonatted

Mor ch

the

contact

between

two 0rg2a222d103s 725

ths

the 1L0 and

Scott

203

23

430

contact

of

wa ch

P78

the

line opposing Soviet aid to Vietnam.

073728: 02: -000-354002235)

7 SOS

JAN 32001200011

-(PLP)

SEL

NODE PAGE THREE

SECREW

MAIL ROOM

ETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32298574

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

WI2D2

• 032-53222

Caecelations

thee tho 2.2 was pocailly 02a on Foriot

302200 or 2m21Lszacod have boss prevacusty discussod ard

Ivod as not foctually

Roccas SuenACiOLO 8406 653

Imported Lancoodaily di suadod idoologically by on

"agons arcons to havo originatod with

11D leader

Clayton Vas Agdogras vho obviouely sc

Oooood wach.

Van Rodegrad 10 undoubtedly

o6 aintlas suardedons reich have heez voiced by

22

• 3a0

212 220

118 4 5128

29:738

widol probobly evolvod fron hus

"Date Roson clains thor he bed cotten

2203

ho noecid 16e

Keny

and that ho could got 925,000 whoever

Lost nonba

Machact Icoley, Lender of the Comuonias

adriood a forcign pro-cuicon

maron" lora ceztasa.con od & Dome millionate, shere

# L0s to any WeD nouspapers

* Lashy probably unc rodozzing

Raceter

she

SON ON

'Rousson. m122ona12e

csl2ss

John

Zielding 13203 a

In August,

420324

& 910,000 Bond for Earlen 240 Leader Valzion Upton

Matter

ves indicted uader

no; sneechy o

Nio older brothers

Peaceuce

• by PiD dotector Eniiip Luce as boving suppliod

Mics Ss 1903 to set up the Reoe Indvensity od Now Mole

wV3 peouds aducachonal centor including on ica stade 210

2e2.08 2ozong

Reva Lado, and

Sue Eratio

Faut is

married

2,20

sister of Joha and Alberte

John Lahor, 92og

20..

bod giving his three childron a considorable suir of

cluding socuritios which have advanced

2112

value, and

has

thon as financially independent.

I6 10 AiRely one

or. 202 oR

lahor childron ropiesent the concalled untinowa

*agent" suspocted ty

Van Lydogsas of puboidizing

Rate

As to

Vas Rydegzad's allegation

Cho

waiting ideologient guidance

Gaota

ankaowin

source o

Ch20

10: one ol

e nudiser of

people,

including

Iza

Crui

os other pro-Chicone an

coundry

or abroad.

i..

7338

(5)28

caould

not

felt the

Entelligence

this

delaged

ao2cing

20.

abovance contact

poocáb222sics endeed by die

: Brobot Denguer

bere

acer recolved.

* 3he

angacated by

40x2235

rit?

begin

0224ng end 4s 620

Do / Bao

Yae

Aca ato position discus

Velopaosd of Trunks,

recent

ECR

DocId:32298574 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: '11-14-2017

SECRET

(S)

ccaference prog:

R.20

Tereroe in 2o1d

S0290

dopienblo tor

Zabely the

socing so it

012.22

NeST

Done

1140g

(S)

Pricego 18 Fequeste 1

..sinolion contaot wist

Suo

1020

Coproccata 6202

130610a1 102 60

the. coas

229

(S)

Mxs02

gor 50002

3371:

24200

230 o

recomendatiess for

Brant: Chrough Chezad 10123o

organiaation.

SECREN

DocId: 32298574

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John.F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 usc 2102 Moter.

DATE: 71-11-2017

SSCRET

ALL INOOGAATION CONCATNOO

FBI

LACE: CAMERS SHORN

OTHERWISE

Transmit the following in

Date:

11/13/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

14.2

AIRDOL

Via

(Priority)

70:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (200-44272517651

SAC, NEW YORK ((100-154902)J(5)

(JFK) 4/11/98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sofa

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.(S(6)

SUBJOCI:

AD HOC COMMITTEE FOR A

MARXIST-LENINIST, PARTY.

USA

misd by Stame la

()

-A/

Des

Re Chicago letter, 11/2/67.

Unless there is agreement on what PLe really is, it

will be difficult to

should be toward PLP

agreement of what the And policy

Susan Frank

In referenced letter,. Chicago suggested the

possibility that PLP from early in its history has been

KOB Third Country operation against the Chinese.

Referehced

letter also states that when MILT ROSEN left the CPUSA, there

vas no evidence that he was ideologically motivated toward

the Peking brand of Communism.

Chicago has also used certain

infornation supplied by HOVER

BATES CHASE in judging PLP,

chicago has held that PhP has had an unprinciple as

or position on Marxist leninist theory and practice.

New York believes that PiP has been the pre-eminent

ORIGIN XT.

The theory that the KGB controls the PLP,

or

nas an informant

by infoman on pupplied by big so sannot te supported.

CA 5

Bureau (1100-442715751

1100-154902 and? (RNT 00-4/4 2215-1424

Ten 85241100-15490-31

KRB: gnd

(5)

(7)

* NOV 14 1967

Approved:

SECRED

-M Per

NAN

Special 'Ageht in Charge

DocId: 32298574

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

200-151:902(5)

MILT ROSEN left the CPUSA before the Sino-Soviet

split was as clearly defined as it is now.

When he was

looking for followers for his new organization, he

may have tried to play down Left wing - Right wing differences,

put he has followed what it is believed the Chinese would

consider a consistent line. CoU

New York is enclosing the following material

for review by the Chicago office.

It is felt that this

material will, in part, substantiate the conclusions

arrived at by

New York.

Xerox copy of New York airtel to Director,

dated 12/22/61, captioned, "Progressive Labor; IS-C"

This

sirtel contains a report CUS HALi sent to Moscow in which

he states that the ROSEN group has been distributing Chinese

naterial for a whole year and has campaigned for the immediate

dissolution of the CP.

(NY file 100-147372-2).

This airtel

reports that PLP was contemplating the publication of

articles written by WILLIAM Z. FOSTER,

which defended the

Chinese position with regard to coexistence and the

inevitability of war. (NY file 100-147372-5).

captioned,

Sprogressive Labor

Report by SA CHESTER A. REILLy, dated 2/23/62,

This is the

first New York

report on the ROSEN Group. (NY file 100-147372-84).

4..

captioned,

"Progressive Labor'

is the

report on

this group. (NY 100-147372-180).

until recently,

1ù has been an accepted AHC S)

objective to meet with PLP.

Now Chicago has cited the PLE

Reg biog of soviet ald lo worth wietnam and ine possile

PLP

penetration of PLP as reasons for staying aloof from

- 2-

SECREL

DocId: 32298574 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11÷14-2017

MY 200-154902](5)

New York agrees that these reasons can serve as

a reason

to others for not meeting PiP, but they are not

the best reasons we have for ourselves for not meeting PLP.

Et the AHC were a real organization it would be hard to

colieve so many years could pass wichout any contact between

the two organizations.

Even now, we are constrained to

explain to others why

there has been no contact with PLe,

and the question of PLP comes up at every turn.

The best reason for not neeting PLP or for being

carerul about all meetings, is that none of the AHo

infoznants would ring true as

an Anc leadenisto the cr

nembers who know the informant.

one of them were

aublically identified as (an AHC leaderS this could pose

serious problems (do the AHCIS)

Recommendation

For some time, it has been

an accepted AHC

objective

to neet with SUE FRAnK,

who is thought to be the PLe's link

with

the Chinese.

Recently, CHARLES

LOMAN made an

unsolicitated offer to incroduce SUE FRANK tO AHC representatives.

This comes at a time when New York sources have reported SUE

FRANK has had some dispute with MILT ROSEN over an

ideological matter, possibly the PLe position on soviet

aid

The source of this information cannot be

recontacted. Since this dispute, which took place three or

your months ago, there has been no known contact between SUE

FRANK and MILT

ROSEN, whereas previously they were in almost

daily contact.

New York recommends we encourage LOMAN to arrange

she meeting with FRANK.

If he does not succeed we still

Look better than if we

try to avoid the meeting.

Went we mak they an arents her cente

explain they seek no organizational tie with PLP for reasons

already discussed, but would like support and guidance from

¿he Chinese.

This would be the same line they have used

Ich the Albanians; the Belgius and the Canadiansges,

-3-

SECREL

DocId: 32298574

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DIY

1800-154902 (65>

If there was ever any merit to the idea or meeting

SUE FRANK, and this was an And-bjective for a long

period of time,

then we should do it now, because we have

never had a better opportunity, and if SUE FRANK's split

wich Milt hosaN goes very deep

she may be willing to

assist and work with che Ant. s)

It is recognized

there is more risk in meeting

FRAT than there would be in making other contacts, but the risk is

no greater now than it ever was, and if we turn down the

meeting with FRANK because of the risk involved, how can

justily sending an Aft intomant to China, where the risk

apputes not only to the Ang, but to the informant as vell?

4

Doc1A: 32298574

Page 8

---

