# docid-32297818

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10220-10094

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-393

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/13/1963

4

LCN, SINATRA, CALOGERO, TRA, PH, VISIT, ASSOC, ABR,

CGA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32297818 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2101 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

August 30, 1963

CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

DER AS

NOTER

RELEASE OF GIANAFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. GMB3/14/97

MAILED TO

SEP SA

1953

COMM-FEI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr:

Gasper

Collaban

Contad

Det oachi

Evans 14

Gole:

Rosen:

Sullivon

Tavel

Trotter

Telet

Holt

SEP 2 4 1963 A ROOM L

REC- 45

Director, FBI (92-6054) - 393

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Legat Rome letters August 13 and 19, 1963.

Enclosed are one copy of "Saturday Svening Post" issue

August 10-17, 1963, and one copy of report of SA James P. Flynn

dated July 1, 1963, at New York and captioned as above.

The Bureau is not in possession of specifie detailed

information on connections between La Cosa Nostra in the

United States and Italy which would be of a type appropriate

to be furnished by Italian police to the Italian Parliamentacy

Anti-Mafia Commission.

With regard to infornation in a category for the sole

use of Italian police in connection with their official investiga-

tion of this organization, in line with Doctor Manopulo's request,

it is believed that data developed regarding Italian national,

Calogero Sinatra will be of interest to them. This pertains to

che travel or sinatra, or vallelunge, Caltanisetta, Italy, to the

United States during the Summer of 1962. It 15 noted that you have

had previous correspondence in connection with Sinatra's travel

to visit Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, racket leader, Angelo Bruno.

Investigation by Bureau Agents determined that Sinatra

arrived from Italy by air at New York International Airport on

June 16, 1962. He was net by Angelo Bruno, Pasquale Massi and

Paul Gambino. Bruno is the "boss" of the Philadelphia "family"

of La Cosa Nostra and is that area's representative on the

"conuission," the top zuling body in this organization. Pasquale

Massi is a veteran member of La Cosa Nostra and operates under

Bruno in Cander, New dersey.

Massi in the past has been known

to travel to Italy and on at least one of these trips was in

contact with Salvatore Lucania, aka Charles "Lucky" Luciano.

Paul Cambino, also a member of this organization,

is the brocher

of Carlo Gambino, the Bibear"

Namiliev

"counission."

determined that sinece

was traveling undefatalias piffport number

8709161-

Enclosures (2)

NR

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit. (Rotte through for

review)

DocId: 32297818

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Motel?

DATE: 11-11-2017

Letter to Legal Attache, Rome

Be: La Cosa Nostra

During the next few months Sinatra spent the majority

of his time with Bruno in the Philadelphis area and met with a

number of members of Philadelphia's La Cosa Nostra *family."

A highly confidential source furnished information during that

time that Sinatra was a member of La Cosa Nostra in Italy and

very probably a "boss" of a group within this organization in

Sicily.

It will be permissible for you to furnish Doctor

Manopulo data with regard to Sinatra's travel to the U. S. and

the fact that he was met by leaders of la Cosa Nostra at the

time of his arrival at International Airport, and in the regular

company of Bruno during the next few months. It will also be

permissible for you to advise Doctor Manopulo, exclusively for

his contidentia, information, that we have received intormation

from a confidential source that Sinatra is a member or capesonce

organization in Italy and very probably holds the position of

"boss, " or "representando," heading & group within La Cosa Nostra

in Sicily. It should be made clear to Doctox Manopulo that this

latter information is uncorroborated by any other source; we are

not in a position to substantiate this data with any forn of

testimony, and, therefore, it is not of a type which should be

furnished to the Italian Parliamentaxy Anti-Mafia Commission.

The enclosed copy of "Saturday Evening Post" contains

the article previously referred to in Bureau cablegram to all

Legats on August 8, 1963. For your confidential information and

not to be disseminated to anyone, this article was prepared by

"Saturday Evening Post" on the basis of their review of reports and

other data in the Department of Justice which had been submitted

by this Bureau.

Joseph Valachi, who is identified as the exclusive

source of this Post article, has been a member of La Cosa Nostra

since 1930 and during the past year has been furnishing New. Yorks

Agents with extensive data regarding this organization.

The enclosed report by SA James P. Flynn is being

furnished for your exclusive information and material from

this report is not to be disseminated to Italian police.

will note that a substantial portion of this report deals

with data received indirectly from Nicolo Gentile, expatriate

U. S. racketeer and member of La Cosa Nostra, who retured to

Italy in approximately 1938.

It is noted that this naterial

was developed from a manuscript prepared by Gentile in Inly

and forwarded to a personal friend in New York City, who is a

- 2.

990 = 190 d

DocId: 32297818

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hotel •

DATE: 11-11-2017

Letter to Legal Attache, Rome

Re: La Cosa Nostra

Central Intelligence Agency source.

This material was made

avallable by this source on a confidential basis and we have

been cautioned not to divulge this information outside the

Bureau at this time for the safety of this CIA source and

Gentile.

You should keep the Bureau Inforned of significant

developments in the Italian Government's official probe of

this organization and specifically with regard to legislative

reform reconnended by the Italian Parliamentry Anti-Matta

Connission to more effectively combat this organization.

991-10014

DocId: 32297818

Page

4

---

