# docid-32300026

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10306

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-9844-10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17

Released under the John

P. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NU 45946 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/18/1969

• PAGES: 76

SUBJECTS :

NRO, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, ASSOC, CRIM ACT,

LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 0120/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 7 RPT

"Ed

v9.1

¡ HH 45946

2

DooId: 32300026

Page

1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-1870

Through ITSP investigation, will follow prosecution

in New York.

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-I 18 J. CURTIN, Intelligence Agent, Intelligence

Unit, Dade County Department of Public Safety, Miani, Florida,

(by request).

MM T-2 Is MM 814-C contacted on 8/24/71, by SA ROBERT

A. COOK.

+-

'.?!

B*

- COVER PAGE -

HH 45946

DooId: 32300026

Page

2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-1870

NEWARK

Information copy to Newark since they had

investigative interest.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORI DA

Will continue to cover activities of the subject.

Will attempt to obtain final disposition of

subject's prosecution in Metropolitan Dade County Traffic

Court for charges stemming from November 26, 1970 arrest.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigative perlod of this

report exceeds 90 days; however, it has been maintained in

current condition through interoffice communications.

In the future, reports will be submitted on a more current

basis.

The Agent who observed the subject at his

residence on June 11, 1971 wAs SA WILLIAM W. CRADDOCK. SA

CRADDOCK Interviewed

the subject in connection with ROTHMAN's

reported possible knowledge of the whereabouts of a

UFAP fugitive.

ROTHMAN was receptive; however, he

• declined

to assist until after his trial and sentence in U.S. District

Court,

Southern District of New York, to take place during

June, 1971. ROTMAN "left the door open "for future contact

in the UFAP matter.

On January 5, 1968, MM 869-PC advised that Bolita

operators have been experiencing bad numbers recently

and that over Christmas the Cuban national lottery number

came out early causing local Bolita operators to call in

their business early, reducing the overall play during

that period.

Informant advised that Bolita operators are having

difficulty obtaining bankroll people.

Informant stated that

a couple weeks ago RALPH SENTERFIT, who continues a small

- B-

COVER PAGE

HH 45946 DocId: 32300026

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Fred --

man.

MM 92-1870

Bolita operation, had his banker fail to come up with

$4,000.

Informant believes that RAYMOND MC-CLENDON

(the tire man) was SENTERFIT's banker.

In this regard, MM 869-PC

advised that NORMAN ROTHMAN has been banking the Bolita

operation of ERWIN BRENNAN and possibly others.

informant

does not believe that it is ROThMAN's own money that 1s

involved but that ROTHMAN is a front for the hoolum element.

On April 15, 1971, NK 3106-C TE advised that he

has met on several occasions

during this past month NORMAN

ROTHMAN in the afternoons at "Dino's" in Miami, Floridá.

He added that ROTHMAN has always been with PATSY ERRA.

ROTHMAN and ERRA seemed to meet other people at this location

and possibly gambling associates. He added that he had no

specific information regarding these individuals' gambling

operation and ROTHMAN stated that he is in the cigar business

in the Miami, Florida area.

He added that ROFIMAN and ERRA continue

to frequent Mama Vi Vi's Restaurant with JOIN PELLEGRINO.

He mentioned that he has had dinner with this group but they

have never discussed their gambling operation with him.

He stated that ERRA continues to be very close to New York

top hoodlum ALEXANDER ROSATO, who visited the Miami, Florida

area during September through February this past winter

season.

On May 18, 1971, NK 3106-C-TE advised that he has

not been down in the Miami, Florida area for many weeks

and has not seen ROTHMAN In the New York City area.

He

added he still does not know the business or gambling

arrangements between PATSY ERRA and NORMAN ROTHMAN®

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 and MMT-4 are MM 1401-C TE contacted by

SA THOMAS J. STICINEY.

Multiple T symbols were utilized

in this instance to afford added protection to a sensitive.

highly placed informant.

MM T-2 15 MM 814-C contacted by SA ROBERT F.

FETZNER.

FETZNER.

MM T-3 1S MI 1176-PCI contacted by SA ROBERT F.

-

COVER PAGE

55p-130°

NH 45946 DocId: 32300026

Page 4

---

## Page 5

rin.

MM 92-1870

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida

Will follow and report subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigative period

of this report exceeds 90 days

maintained in current conditio

through interoffice

communications.

ATS

PRA PASQUARE RRA

on May,

1970,

MM

1401-C-TE,

advised that.

PASQUALE MICHAEL ERRA and NORMAN ROTHMAN have been '

seeing attorney MAX LURIA on almost a daily basis.

They have been meeting at Benjy's Restaurant located

next to the Biscayne Building on West Flagler Street,

Miami, Florida.

On July 16, 1970, Special Agent DAVE THOMAS,

Florida Department of Law Enforcement, advised that an

informant of that department had told

him there would

be a meeting at Mama Vivi's Italian Restaurant, 1957

71st Street, Miami Beach, Florida.

The participants

of this meeting were to be JOHN PELLEGRINO, PASQUALE

MICHAEL ERRA, and NORMAN ROTHMAN. Additional parties

would attend but their identities were unknown to the

informant.

Surveillance was instituted across the street

from the front entrance to Mama Vivi's Italian Restau-

rant at 5:30 p.m. on 7/16/70. At 6:15 p.m. JOHN

PELLEGRINO was observed getting from the vehicle parked

in front of the restaurant and entering the front door.

At 6:31 p.m. a white over red Cadillac convertible

arrived.

It bore 1969-70 Florida License 1 E 32332,

and ods registered to Morris Auto Rental, Inc., Post

Office Box 2394, Miami, Florida.

The occupants of

COVER PAGE

95p-10380

HH 45946

DocId: 32300026

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 92-1870

this vehicle were PASQUALE MICHAEL ERRA, NORMAN

ROTHMAN,

EDMUND LOWELL GRAIFER, and ALEXANDER

ROSATO.

A short time later FREDDIE FELICE arrived

and went inside.

These individuals remained at the

restaurant until 9:30 p.m. at which time they left

and proceeded to the Dream

Bar located at the

Johnina Hotel, 71st Street and Collins Avenue, Miami

Beach.

On 7/17/70, MM 814-C advised that NORMAN

ROTHMAN and another couple, whose identity is unknown,

were observed in the lobby of the Fontainebleau Hotel,

en route to one of the hotel bars.

On August 17, 1970, MM 1176-PC advised that

on June 6, 1970, NORMAN ROTHMAN and his alleged Latin .

girl friend had

dinner and saw the show at Harry's

American Bar in the Eden Roc Hotel. ROTHMAN reportedly

acquired a ringside seat for the show. The girl friend

was described as very

beautiful, approximately thirty

years of age, height 5'5"

weight 120 pounds, dark hair,

expensively dressed.

By communication dated 8/31/70, the Newark

Office advised that on 8/18/70, NK 3106-PC advised

that he flew to the Miami area on 7/16/70, Thursday,

and met with ALEXANDER ROSATO, who was then visiting

friends in the Florida area.

Informant added he stayed

at the Deauville Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, with

ROSATO who had

requested his company for a few days of

fun. PC stated that during his stay from 7/16/70 through

7/19/70, he spent every night with ROSATO, who was being

entertained by one PASQUALE MICHAEL ERRA. He mentioned he

accompanied young AL ROSATO, JR. to Miami and PATSY ERRA

at this time entertained them for several days.

He continued that during the night of 7/16/70,

he recalls having dinner at Mama Vi Vi's Restaurant

with ROSATO, ERRA, JOHN PELLEGRINO, the owner of this

restaurant and an

unknown Jewish male.

He added Insi

C

COVER PAGE

558-10308

HH 45946

DocId: 32300026

Page 6

---

## Page 7

ITTL

MM 92-1870

that no business was discussed on this evening and

believed ERRA and PELLEGRINO are originally from NYC,

but are most friendly and respectful to AL ROSATo..

On subsequent days ERRA took them to Forge

Restaurant, Ramondo's Restaurant and to Dino's Night-

club, where

a good time was enjoyed by all, but no

talk of business was conducted by anyone:

ALEXANDER ROSATO is considered one of the

wealthiest loan sharks in the east and a known member

of the VITO GENOVESE group.

ROSATO is highly re-

spected and lives a very quiet life, spending most

of his daytime hours at his social club, 2294 Second

Avenue, New York, New York. PC has no knowledge of

ROSATO's illegal dealings, but is close to him as a

social friend.

New York carries this subject,

caption "ALEXANDER ROSATO, Aka.; ECT; 00 N.Y. (179-4) "

and Newark 179-129.

DUE TO ITS SINGULAR NATURE; THIS INFORMATION

SHOULD NOT BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE THE BUREAU.

The following information was received

from

RICHARD BARRON (protect identity) who is employed at

Dean Martin's Restaurant, 1850 79th Street Causeway,

North Bay Village, Florida.

This individual has fur-

nished information in the past which has been reliable

and unreliable.

r.

On 9/4/70, PASQUALE ERRA was in the res-

taurant between 4:10 and 4:45 p.m. at which time he

left for a short time and returned at 5:45 until 5:55 p.m.

While at the restaurant, he spoke with NORMAN ROTHMAN,

who left at 6:30 p.m. and VINCENT TERIACA, who left at

5:15 p.m.

ROTHMAN

was observed leaving in a vehicle

bearing 1970-71 Florida license lW-51209, which is

registered to CAPPY M. ROTHMAN, 425 Surfside Boulevard,

suriside, Florida.

D.

COVER PAGE

55010500

HH 45946

DocId:32300026 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 92-1870

On 9/6/70, NORMAN ROTHMAN was in the Dean

Martin's Restaurant from 4:40 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. at

which time he made telephone calls from a pay tele-

phone located within the restaurant bearing number

866-9281.

on 9/7/70, PASQUALE ERRA was in the restaurant

between 3:45 and 6 p.m. during which time he met with

NORMAN ROTHMAN, who

was there between 4:40 and 6:45

p.m. and ALFREDO FELICE.

ROTHMAN made some telephone calls

from the pay telephone bearing number 866-9281.

On 9/12/70, NORMAN ROTHMAN arrived at 4:47 p.m.

at the Dean Martin Restaurant and departed at 5:25 p.m.,

after using the telephone bearing number 866-9281.

CHUCKY MORROW arrived at 5:40 p.m. and departed after

having one drink.

On 9/19/70, NORMAN ROTHMAN arrived at Dean

Martin's Restaurant at 4:45 p.m. and departed at 5:55

p.m.

During this time, he was talking with ALFREDO

FELICE who arrived at 4:50 p.m. and departea 5:22 P.m.

ROY THOMAS Who arrived at 4:50 p.m. and PASQUALDEERRAS

arrived at 5:10 p.m. ERRA departed after having only

who..

one drink.

On 10/5/70, MM 81

A-C advised that for about

the past twofor three weels NORMAN ROTHMAN has been in

the Fontainebleau Hotel, card room during the daytime

and almost every night

He is closely associating with

MANNING SHERMAN and some other card cheaters who are

close to MAX EDER. ROTHMAN has also been observed a

great deal with BEN GRADE in the card room. GRADE I'E-

portedly operates a

wholesale liquor company, possibly

the Florida Liquor Company.

Around cocktail time,

ROTHMAN can be seen every day in the Poodle Room of the

Fontainebleau Hotel.

COVER PAGE

550-10.300

HH 45946

DocId:32300026 Page 8

---

## Page 9

ATT

REVELED BY EUNUFK TASK FORCE

ON

MM 92-1870

9/23/97 clos

I RELEASE IN FULL

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

RELEASE IN PART

It is noted that the investigative period dilli dEmArt

exceeds. 90 days, however, it has been kept current through interoffice

communications.

On January 17, 1970, MM 1401-C-TE advised that NORMAN ROTHMAN

is very upset about the possibility of his being convicted in the CHESTER

ZOCHOWSKI, aka, ET AL matter pending in New York, New York file number

87-54676.

He was reported to be drinking heavily and being in a worried

state of mind.

On January 22, 1970, Special Investigators GEORGE NOWICKI and

WAYNE TUCCI, Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearns Division, United States Department

of the Treasury, assigned to the Miami Strike Force, in conjunction with

Special Agent DICK SCULLY, Florida Department of Law Enforcement, conductec

a surveillance of ROTHMAN.

At approximately 10:30 p.II., ROTHMAN's 1968

Pontiac sedan, black,

bearing 1970 Florida license 1W12143,. was observed

parked at Dean Martin's Restaurant.

bearing 1969 New Jersey License RAB 198, registered to WARREN RAYMOND LEHMAN,

427 Kaplan Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey

The second vehicle was a 1970

Cadillac, four door hardtop,

bearing 1969 New Jersey License MTO 817,

registered to EMILIO DELIO, 247 Highland Avenue, Newark, New Jersey.

WARRON RAYMOND LEHMAN, date Of bith September 2+-192l 15

described as a white male, 5-7, 165 pounds, hazel eyes and brown hair.

He was reportedly previously employed by Burdin's Drug Company, 138 Johnson

Street, Hackensack, New Jersey.

The files of the New Jersey State Police

as reviewed by Agent SCULLY reflect no criminal arrest for LEHMAN and no

intelligence information was located.

Burgin's Drug Company is one of the

largest pharmaceutical firms in the State of New Jersey.

EMILIO DELIO, date of birth December 22, 1913e Place of birt

Teora, Italy, is also known as

"The Count" or

"Tony the Wop".

described as a white male, 587" tall, 180 pounds, black hair, brown eyes,

and heavy build. SCULLY advised that DELIO is reportedly a member of the

VITO GENOVESE family operating in the direction of GERARDO CATENA. DELIO

is alleged to be a boss of La Cosa Nostra activities in the Newark, New

Jersey, area, primarily connected with gambling operations. He is also

identified as

being a close

- Newea

At approximately 11:20 p.M., ROTHMAN, accompanied by a female

departed from Dean Martin's Restaurant driving his Pontiac. At the same

time two unknown males and two inknown females departed in the LEHMAN and

DaLlo vehicles.

-B-

COUER PAGE

-

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 9

---

## Page 10

MM 92-1870

Detective GAMBLE advised that after the meeting at Dean Martin's

unidentified group of persons at the Dream lounge, located at the Hohnina

Hotel.

On January 24, 1970, BU 502-C-TE advised that Buffalo La Cosa

Nostra Chief SALVATORE J. PIERI arrived in Miami abord United Airlines

Plight 577 from Buffalo, arriving Miami 5:26 pollo, January 23, 1970.

Upon arrival, PIERI was driven by TONY ROMANO from Daytona Beach,

Florida, from the airport to the Dean Martin Restaurant, Miami Beach, where

a la Cosa Nostra meeting was hold that evening.

According to the informant, ROMANO and PIERI reported that upon

leaving Miami International Airport,

they ascertained that they were being

tailed by several cars. These cars followed then to various side streets

and upon arrival at the Dean Martin's Restaurant, parked in the street

across from the meeting place.

Informant further advised on January 27, 1970 that according to

Miami La Cosa Nostra member PASQUALE ERRA,

"A big, tall bald-headed guy

from the Dade County Sheriff's Office came to ERRA and told him that the

Sheriff's Office was the group who tailed PIERI and ROMANO to the restaurant."-

In regard to the meeting on the night of January 23, 1970,

informant said that the inner meeting itself was held between thirteen

and fourteen individuals in a room located on the righthand side of the

bar as one walks into the restaurant. This meeting involved various

discussions including:

(1) There is concern among the Miami La Cosa Nostra Faction

that they are generally disorganized, which disorganization

could prove disadvantageous in light of the growth of la

Cosa Nostra activities in the area. It is felt that in light

of this growth, without proper organization, fights over lines

of demarcation could arise.

(2) There is concern in regard to large amounts of money being

placed through appropriate fronts by ANGELO BRUNO family fron

Philadelphia.

The general feeling was that in light of these

large investments, comprised mainly of large commercial lines,

that BRUNO is "coming on strong" in Miami and 1s obviously

attempting to greatly expand his influence.

Informant recognized the following individuals as having

attended the above meeting:

(1) SALVATORE J. PIERI, Buffalo La Cosa Nostra Chief.

(2) TO ROTATO, Daytona Beach, Meridao

-p=

Couch

PAGE

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 10

---

## Page 11

MM 92-1870

(3) NORMAN ROTHMAN, Surfside, Florida.

(4) (FNU) TRISCARO, described as a short Italian who was a former

fighter and who comes from cleveland, Ohio.

This individual

was accompanied by another hoodlum who was described as his

"body guard." (The Buffalo Office advised by communication

dated February 5, 1970, that this individual was probably

identical with LOUIS TRISCARO, aka "Babe," president of the

Teamsters Local # 436, Cleveland, Ohio, who has known La

Cosa Nostra connections)

(5) PASQUALE MICHAEL, ERRA, Miami Beach, Florida.

(6) DOMINI

MANTEIn, Miant, ELorida.

(7) FRED GABOURIE, Informant has furnished previous information Fla

concerning GABOURIE, who is known as "FREBDIP" and "GABE."

GABOURIE resides near Toranto, Canada. and has been described

in the past as a connection between Toronto La Cosa Nostra

members and various la Cosa Nostra factions in the United

States.

GABOURIE has also been reported to be close associate

of SAM PIERI and PEANUTS TRONOLONE from Miami.

Informant advised that he did not recall specific names of

other persons in attendance at this meeting, however he did state that

JOSEPH INDELICATO was not at this meeting.

On January 28, 1970, MM 1401-C-TE advised that NORMAN ROTHMAN

can be found almost every Friday night at Dean Martin's Restaurant in North

Bay Village. During the daytime he is usually at home except for the

frequent trips he makes to the Normandy Isle Club where he drinks heavily.

Informant did not know whether ROTHMAN intends to open his movie house and

book store. ROTHMAN told informant that because of his forthcoming

-

prosecution, oh is not looking for any new deals and is staying out of any

new action.

Informant further advised although ROTHMAN is very friendly

with PASQUALE ERRA he is closer to JINMY DOYLE PLUMERI than anyone else.

on March? 1970, MM 1401-C-TE advised that there was a meeting

scheduled that date for 1:00 pell. at the Eden Roc Hotel, Miami Beach.

following were supposed to attend: MEYER LANSKY, NORMAN ROTHMAN, MORRIS

LANSBURGH and FRANKIE FERRARA.

There was also a meeting scheduled for

March 10, 1970, of a larger group.

Apparently, the meetings are to discuse

FERRARA taking over the gambling junkets.

There is also some question

about handling of the Bahamas Casino, probably the Kings Inn.

On March 11, 1970, MM 1176-PC advised that NORMAN ROTHMAN came

Ela

into the Eden Roc Hotel on February 3, 1970, with Job enemis, the comedian,

after having previously spent some time prior to this with LEWIS at the

COUEN PAGE

110900°

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 11

---

## Page 12

MM 92- 1870

Fontainebleau Hotel, Miani Beach. He' was told ROTHMAN, while at the Eden

Roc, happened to meet an acquaintance and was overheard to tell this

individual that if it were not for "the jan" he is in with the Federal

Goverrment, he would go into the building construction business because

that is where the money is being made today.

On March 12, 1970, MM 725-C advised he heard that NORMAN ROTHMAN

has been with PATTY ERRA and allegedly a new comer to the area called SAL

(LNU), an Italian, allegedly of some status in the hoodlum empire, on a

number of occasions the later part of January and early part of February.

at the Johnina Hotel.

NORMAN ROTAN an hiS 90 in 17 Pompany on that RESTORe a to la

alloged girl friend were in the Eden Roc Hotel for the Shecky Green Show

on February 25, 1970.

He was also observed in the Pompoli Room of the Eden

Roc Hotel on March 13, 1970, with MAsHiRIE, his attorney Fla

On March 9, 1970, Detective GARY MINIUM, Dade County Department

of Public Safety, Intelligence Division, advised that ROTHMAN might have

a new apartment on West Drive, North Bay Village, Florida.

A check of the Starlight House Apartments located on West Drive,

North Bay Village, Revealed that there was a ROTHMAN listed on the apartment*-

index.

Subsequent checks with informants indicated that subject did in

*.

fact have an apartment at that location in addition to his normal residence.

TOM ANDERSON, Justice Department Strike Force, Miami, advised

that OLGA CHAVIANO Is associated with ROTHMAN and that she is believed

to be his mistress.

A spot check of her residence at 2950 Southwest 78th

Avenue, Miamid revealed that this was a well kept residence in a upper

middle class aeighborhood.

The house is situated on a corner lot with a

large florida room and inclosed pool.

She drives a 1969 Buick Riveria,

Cream over Brown, bearing 1970 Florida license 1W5275. This is registered

to OLGA CHAVIANO at the above address.

CovEn

fAcE

25240398

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 12

---

## Page 13

-----

MM 92-1870

1. Will furnish prosecutive status of subject.

2. Will advise Miami if any travel restrictions

have been imposed upon subject regarding his indictment of

the CHESTER ZOCHOWSKI, aka; ET AL matter,

New York file

number 87-54676.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will follow and report subject's activities.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

It is noted that the investigative period o:

this report exceeds 90 days, however, it has

been kep

current through interoffice communications.

- INFORMANTS -

MM T-1 is MM 725-C

MM T-2 is LV 121-C-тE

MM T-3 is MM 1176-PC

MM T-4 is MM 1401-PC

MM T-5 is NY 4302-C

MM T-6 is LV 378-C

- B* - .

COVER PAGE

HH 45946

DocId: 32300026

Page 13

---

## Page 14

JEK Act 6 (4)

MM 92-1870

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

I. Will furnish prosecutive status of subject:

2. Will determine from subject's bondsman, who

was responsible for making subject's and DE CRISTOFARO's

bond.

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida

Will follow and report subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report reflects

Investigation conducted prior to submission of Miami report

dated May 12, 1969.

The results of this investigation were

not received

in time to include it in the report of May 12,

1969.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is Mrs. CLARKE HARDWICKE, a neighborhood

source whose identity has been protected at her request.

MM T-2 IS BETTY ROBB, a housekeeper for Mrs. CLARKE

HARDWICKE, whose identity has been protected at her request.

MM T-3 is MM 509-C.

MM I-4 is MM 725-C.

MM T-5 is

PCI.

- COVER PAGE -

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 14

---

## Page 15

MM 92-1870

Will check the Country Squire Motel,

Broadwa y

and Slst Street, to determine whether subject

registered at this motel and,

still

if not,

whether he left

any forwarding address.

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will follow and report subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The investigative period of this report reflects

investigation conducted prior to submission of Miami

report dated January 31, 1969.

The results of this in-

vestigation were not received

in time to include it in the

report of January 31, 1969.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 is MM 725-C.

MM T-2 is NY 4229-C-TE.

MM T-3 is NY 4263-C-TE.

MM T-4 is NY 4008-C-TE.

MM T-5 is NY 6346-C-TE.

MM T-6 is NY 5240-C-TE.

MM T-7 is NY 6031-C-TE.

MM T-8 is NY 5581-C-TE.

MM T-9 is LV 121-C-TE.

- B

COVER PAGE

......

NH 45946 DooId: 32300026

Page 15

---

## Page 16

MM 92-1870

MM T-10 is Mrs. CLARKE HARDWICK,

Surfside Boulevard, a neighborhood

source.

MM T-11 is MM 1357-PC.

501 South

- C*-

COVER PAGE

HH 45946

DocId: 32300026

Page

16

---

## Page 17

FBI WASH DC

т. 0:5971967101:

1..0a

COMICA L

SECTION

MAR 1 8 1969

TELETYPE

Mr. 'Tolson

Mr. DeLosch

Mr. Mobr.

Mr. Bishon

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Roser/

Mr. Sulhvan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trutter

Tele. Room.

Miss Folmes

Mise Gandy

FBI LASVEGAS

2:54 PM URGENT 3/18/69 SFB

TO: DIRECIOR (92-9844) AND MIAMI (92-1870)

FROM: LAS VEGAS (92-2163)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

NORMAN ROTHMAN, AKA. AR. 00: MIAMI.

LV ONE TWO ONE -C- TE ADVISED MARCH SEVENTEEN LAST THAT •

SUBJECI PRESENTLY IN LAS VEGAS AND WAS OBSERVED IN MEETINGS

WITH CAESARS PALACE OWNERS AND KEY EXECUTIVES. INVESTIGATION

REFLECTED ROTHMAN PRESENTLY STAYING IN ROOM SIX EIGHT SIX,

SANDS HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, ARRIVING MARCH FOURTEEN LAST.

FBI, LAS VEGAS, DISSEMINATED INFORMATION TO CLARK COUNTY

SO (CCSO) INTELLIGENCE DETAIL MARCH SEVENTEEN LAST THAT

SUBJECT, A SUSPECTED COURIER AND COLLECTOR OF GAMBLING DEBTS-

FOR LAS VEGAS CASINOS, WAS PRESENTLY IN LAS VEGAS.

FBI, LAS VEGAS, IDENTIFIED ROTHMAN FOR CCSO WHILE ROTHMAN

ATTENDING THE LITTLE - HAYWARD JUNIOR MIDDLEWEIGHT TITLE FIGHT, LAS

VEGAS, MARCH SEVENTEEN LAST. SUBJECT OBSERVED AT FIGHT WITH

END PAGE ONE

REC- 112

15 MAR 20 1969

226

• MAN 2 6 1969

HH 45946 DocId:32300026 Page 17

---

