# docid-32334253

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) ..

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90113-10045

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-2894-152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/21/1966

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

JACK WASSERMAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/18/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32334253

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-11-2017

CG 92-347

ADMINISTRATIVE

This case was placed in a pending status on 8/29/66

and the

Bureau has been kept advised on pertinent activities

of DE LUCIA on a continuing basis. Since the case entitled

"PAUL DE LUCIA, aka; PERJURY" has been placed in a pending

inactive status in the reférenced report of SA SAM T. GALOVICH

dated 8/29/66 at Chicago, all pertinent information will be

furnished in the "PAUL DE LUCIA, aka; AR" case:

Information copies of this

report are being fur-

nished to the New York and Newark offices in view of current

investigation being conducted by those offices in this case.

INFORMANTS

CG T-1 is Officer HARRY D. O'BRIEN, River Forest,

Illinois, PD, who furnished information concerning automo-

bile license registrations at the Golden Bear Pancake House,

West North and Bonnie Brae Avenues, River Forest, Illinois.

CG T-2 is Officer GEORGE REINCKE, Chicago PD;

stationed at O'Hare International Airport, who furnished in-

formation

tO SA SAM T'. GALOVICH on 11/2, 11/16, 11/17, 11/21/66.

CG T-3 is LOU GIZA, U.S. Customs official, O'Hare:

International Airport who furnished information to SA GALOVICH

on 11/16/66.

nished information JASA GALi He toLzoand 10/21/66.

who fur-

CG T-5 is CG 6855-C-TE who furnished information

to SA LENARD A. WOLF on 8/22/66.

CG T-6 is' CG 6913-PC contacted by JOHN W. ROBERTS,

JR. on 11/4/66.

11/4/66.

CG T-T is CG 6443-C-TE contacted by SA ROBERTS on.

REVIEWED BY

JFK TASK FORCE

-C*-

COVER. PAGE

ON 4/10/98 dol

A RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

DocId: 32334253 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John' F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 fRev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

- USA, Chicago

Report of:

Dates

SA SAM T. GALOVICH

12-21 - 66

Field Office File #i

•"92-347

Titles

PAUL DE LUCIA

Offices

Chicago

Bureau File #3

92-2894

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:.

DE LUCIA observed at Mexicana Airlines, O'Hare International

Airport, for several months; however, on 11¼15/66, he was

observed speaking

"to a male crew member of Al Italia Air-

lines flight 666 from New York

to Chicago. MICHELANGELO

ItAL

MACCHIO, brother-in-law of DE LUCIA, visited U.S. in 7/66; USt

however, no information has been developed that CHIACCHIO

was a guest of DE LUCIA. DE LUCIA reportedly petitioning

Rome

tribunal to declare him a non-citizen of Italy?

would preclude his deportation to that

which

country.

"BUTCH"

BLASI Reportedly a courier between DE LUCIA, ANTHONY ACCARDO

LL

and SAM GIANCANA, reputed heads of Chicago syndicated

* JACK

WASSERMAN, attorney for DE LUCIA, met at O'Hare Airport by

GUSE well-known hoodlum, and three unidentified indi-

viduals on, 10/12/66 during deportation hearing in U.S. Court;Chicago.

On 11/17/66, US. Court of Appeals upheld U.S. Board of

Immigration

and Naturalization order for deportation of DE

LUCIA. DE LUCIA observed meeting with numerous individuals

at local restaurant and numeröus"

vehicles noted at the

restaurant and in vicinity öf DE LUCIA's home.

of vehicles set forth.

Subscribers

-P-

92-2894-152

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusiong of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32334253 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennédy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-347

CG T-3 furnished substantially the same informa-

tion concerning DE LUCIA's activities at O'Hare International.

Airport:

On October 10, 1966, a confidential source abroac

advised of the receipt of an

anonymous letter dated Septem-

ber 12, 1966, which alleges that DE LUCIA's brother-in-law,

MICHELANGELO

CHIACCHIO, was recently a guest of DE LUCIA

in New York for about a month.

CHIACCHIO is described as

the Mayor of Grumo Nevano, a

town near Naples, Italy. The

anonymous letter pointed out that CHIACCHIO brought with

him a suitcase which contained items of an unknown nature

and which he was able to get by Italian customs authorities.

Subsequent to his return to Grumo Nevano, CHIACCHIO gifted

persons with cigarette lighters and

various other items.

On November 4g

1966,

CG T-6 advised that no infor-

mation was available that MICHELANGELO CHIACCHIO was a guest

of

DE LUCIA in Chicago.

On November 4,

1966, CG. T-7 advised that no infor-

mation was available that DE LUCIA entertained any

guest

from Italy in his home during July or August, 1966.

On October 28, 1966, the confidential source

abroad advised that DE LUCIA has instituted proceedings

before

the Tribunal of Rome for a judgment stating that he

is not an Italian citizen.

These proceedings are only in

their preliminary phase and it is impossible to say when

a decision will be

made.

that theatre bet deal

that it is unlikely

take any steps what-

soever to expedite the proceedings since

interest to stall natters in order to but bels in his

for as long

as possible a possibly unfavorable decision.

Should DE LUCIA obtain a judgment that he is

not

an Italian citizen, the Government of Italy would then be

precluded from issuing a foglio di via directing him to

- 3-

92-2894-1072

DocId: 32334253 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-347

return to Italy.

Consequently, the foglio di via which was

previously issued and is now suspended pending the outcome

of the present proceedings could not be reinstated nor a

new one issued.

Should the Tribunal of Rome hold, on the

other hand, that DE LUCIA is a citizen of Italy the old

foglio di via would be reinstated once the Tribunal's deci-

sion has become final..

However, it is probable that DE

LUCIA would immediately appeal such a decision to the Court

of Appeals and subsequently, if need be, to the Supreme

Court which would mean that the foglio di via would have to

remain suspended pending the outcome of further proceedings.

On August 22, 1966, CG T-5 advised that "BUTCH"

BLASI acts as a "courier" between ANTHONY ACCARDO, PAUL

RICCA and SAM GIANCANA, reputed heads of the Chicago crime

syndicate.

CG T-4 advised on October 12, 1966, that GUS

ALEX, well-known Chicago hoodlum, along with

thrée uniden-

tified individuals were observed meeting attorney JACK WAS-

SERMAN on the evening of October 11, 1966, on arrival at

O'Hare International Airport, Chicago.

WASSERMAN appeared on October 12, 1966, representing

PAUL DE LUCIA in current deportation proceedings;

U.S. Court of Appeals:

At that time WASSERMAN was accom-

panied by hoodlum attorney JOSEPH BULGER (déceased) and

oral arguments were heard before Judges JOHN HASTINGS, WIN

KNOCH and LUTHER SWYGERT. Assistant U.S. Attorney JOHN

LULINSKI presented the arguments for the U.S. Government.

At that time the Court of Appeals took the matter

under advisement and

expected to render an opinion in about

three weeks from that date.. The source advised that upon

the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals, DE LUCIA's attor-

neys have 15 days in which to petition for a rehearing be-

fore the U.S. Court of Appeals and if a rehearing is denied,

then the last legal recourse is to apply for a Writ of

Certiorari before the U.S. Supreme Court.

92-2894-152

DocId: 32334253 Page 5

---

