# docid-32206626

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-10002-10179

RECORDS SERIES

WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Released under

the

John F

ennedy Assassination

ecords Collection Act of

144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#: NIT 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE :

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DATE

PAGES

: 01/20/64

2

SUBJECTS

LANE, MARK

BRONIAREK,

ZYGMUNT

"TRYBUNA LUDU"

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: C

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT

STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST

REVIEW

: 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Folder: 9

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653 DocId:32206626 Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECKEI

WASHINGTON 25, D.G.

January 20, 1954

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA'

On January 18, 1004, a confidential informant, vio

bas Furnishod reliable information in the past, learned that

interviewed darl Lang in low fork City on January 17≥ 1904. S

According to the informant, friark Lane is an atiorneyhired bys.

Marquerite oswald, the nother of lee Harvey Oswald. The (S

informant learned Zygnunt Broniarcla and liark Lane discussed

sonconc other than Loc liarvey Oswald was responsible for the

coath of President John lennedy.

, 1904, the same informant learned thal

¿yshunt Broniarch coldliarl: Lane that he had just received a S

copy of "'Prybuna Ludu,' which contained a reprint Iron a very.

right-viag Italian newspaper called the "Iwentieth Century."

In this reprinted article it was reported. there hai been a

conspiracy to kill President Kennedy; that police officer J. D.

Tippett vas to assassinato the President; that thercafter

tippett was to hide in the depository and subsequently be able

to leave because he was wearing a uniform of a police officer.

Lygmunt Broniarek stated that according to this reprinted

article, Officer Tippett was promised a very big reward for the

?: SUCHANG CONTAGEN

MAN'NE CE UNCLASSIFIED

EXCERY WHERE SHOWN

SEVERWiSE

SECRET

8-1293

Classified by 5170 A65/kSK

Declassify oN' DASK

CONFDENTIAL

iTric)

GROUP

Excluded from

automatio

downgrading and

declassification

---

## Page 3

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

CONFIDEJITAL

SECRET

assassination of President Kennedy.

Also, after the assassi-

nation, tippeti was to meet Jack Ruby, and unknown to him but

according to plan, Jack Ruby was to kill him. Zygmunt Brontarelo

continued that according to this reprinted article, Jack Ruby

did kill Officer Tippett.

decording to tie informant, Zygmunt Broniarold informed

S/Ciarli Lane that the article did not offer any proof for this

thcory, but he thought Lane might be interested in it. The

norant added thatiarl: Lane expressed interest in the story &

and Zygnunt Broniarely offered to translate the article an

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBl. It is the property of

the FBi and is loaned to your agoncy:

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2

SCUKEN

---

