# docid-32301233

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10068

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-53, 54

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DODGE, HAROLD F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1959

PAGES:

21

SUBJECTS :

JRO, BKG, RES, B/F INT, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/16/1998

• OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32301233

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2047-12-551

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SALT LAKE CITY

JOHN ROSELLI, aka.

DATE

11/30/59

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD F. DODGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/28/59 - 11/23/59

TYPED BY

LFL

SYNWAXX

REFERENCE

Reports of SA JAMES H. THOMPSON at Salt Lake City dated 9/9/59

and 10/14/59.

Salt Lake CIty Radiogram to Los Angeles dated 11/19/59.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

Subject's name will be spelled with two "ss" throughout

this report inasmuch as this is the spelling he himself currently

uses.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

2

2

2

2

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau

(92-3267)

Salt Lake City (94-252)

Washington Field Office

Los Angeles (92-113)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3261-53

18 DEG

ry 1059

REC- 71

PROPERTY OF FBI.- This report is loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

GPO: 19580-454008

DocId: 32301233 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the "John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: {1-14-2017

LA 92-113

On November 18, 1959, LA I-3 made available records

of the Ahmanson Bank and Trust Company, 9145 Wilshire Boulevara,

Los Angeles, which reflect that the Cantillon and Cantillon

trustee account has a current balance of $4.31. There was a

deposit on September 21, 1959, of $43.12.

September 23, 1959,

a check for $107.75 was drawn, and there have been no entries

since that date.

As will be set out later, on October 16, 1959, ROSSELLI

issued a check in the amount of $1,500. payable to JAMES P.

CANTILLON, Trustee, which check was deposited at Bank #16-20,

which is the Main Office of the California Bank in Los Angeles.

Lucey's New Orleans House

5444 Melrose Avenue

Los Angeles, California

On August 13, 1959, LA T-2 furnished information that

MONTE PROSER and MARSHALL EDSON were opening Lucey's Restaurant

in the Hollywood area and that everyone was aware that PROSER

does not have sufficient money of his own to engage in this type

of operation.

Informant said that it was rumored that $200,000.

would be spent getting the business in operation.

informant

offered the opinion that ROSSELLI might be furnishing some of the

money to PROSER; however, informant had no facts upon which to

base

such an opinion. He said that he contacted PROSER, and

PROSER promised

to buy ice making machines from the informant.

On September 17, 1959, LA T-2 advised that ROSSELLI

was In Los Angeles on Monday,

September 14, 1959, and he anâ

ROSSELLI had dinner together at Lucey's Restaurant.

LA T-2

said that through ROSSELLI's friendship with MONTE PROSER

and informant's association with ROSSELLI he, the informant,

able to sell two 400 pound ice making machines to Lucey's

Restaurant. Informant said that in the installation of the

machines he was having some difficulty with MARSHALL EDSON

as to some minor detail of the installation.

The following day

EDSON remarked to informant that ROSSELLI had told EDSON that he,

ROSSELLI,

had told the informant to handle the installation

in a certain manner, and therefore EDSON was not to interfere

with the installation.

This incident indicated to informant

that ROSSELLI might possibly have an interest in Lucey's.

= 3 -

DocId: 32301233 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: - 11-14-2017

LA 92-113

INFORMANTS

LA T-1 - EVERETT STANHOUSE, Assistant Operations

Officer, California Bank, Santa Monica-Highland Branch,

Los Angeles, California.

LA T-2 - LA 4145-C.

LA T-3 - R. H. HILL, Manager, Ahmanson Bank and Trust

Company, 9145 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly Hills,.

California

LA T-4 - SU 370-C.

LA T-5 - CSLA 4178-C.

LA T-6 - LA 4129-C.

LA T-7 - LA 4119-C.

18

DocId: 32301233

Page 4

---

