# docid-32134796

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results Back to Search Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

107 N0Ee10-20a5e#:NW 53932

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10049-10007

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-966

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

: 01/17/1964

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RUBY,

JACK, CUSTODY

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/11/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

:INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REPORI, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGE I.

A-I. INCLUDES ONE ADMIN PAGE.

INDEX ON PAGES

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

112

---

## Page 2

1176

FEDERAL BUPEAU OF INVESTIGATION

2500109:460 109112

OFFICE DO GRIGIN

DALLAS

JACK L.

RUBY, aka;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

(Deceased)

aka - VICTIM

EATE

1/17/64

PUrSTISATiVE PERIOU

48/5/53 - 1/15/64

SEPIT! MADE DY

._.SA. MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

CR

TYRIO EY

LAC

REFERENCES:

Reports Of SA MANNING C. CLENRNGS dated 11/30/63; 12/0/63: 12/11/63;

12/14/63;

12/18/63; 12/19/63; 12/21/63; 12/31/63

and 1/3/64 at Dallas.

Report of SA STUART J, CAMERON dated 12/3/63 at Albuquerque:

-÷-

LEADS:

A11 leads are being sor out by telephone and teletype and

not repeated herein:

ADMINISTRATIVE:

No dissemination will be made outside the Pureau except

Bureau instructions.

Overlap in period with periods of prion reponts is occasioned

by efforts to correlate information properly and completely.

20.1963

AFPRE-PED

COPIES MADE:

(5) Bureau (44-24016)

5 Dallas (44-1639)

53 FEB 2 4 1964

DIBSEMINATION REC

Ice friend lat tirit

RD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

DO NOT WAITE IN SPACES BELOW

44- 24016 = 9661.103

Ã2 JAN 20 1664

REC G

....

AGENCY:

A QUEST RICO..

DATE FWO..

нож FWO.

BY..

Ventrifican

HH 53932: DooId:32134796

Palone)

---

## Page 3

DL 44-1639

HRD: LAC

With reference to the name "JOHN ROGERS, Post Office

Box 10707", with no further identifying data, appearing on a

note pad belonging to JACK RUBY,

Mx. L. ALLEN MADDOX, clerk in

the office of the U. S. Post Office

Inspectors, Room

•500, U.s.

Terminal Building,

207 South Houston Street, Dallas, advised

$A HAROLD R. DOBSON on January 10, 1964, that there is no post

office box numbered 10707 in the Dallas, Texas, Metropolitan

area.. Post office box numbers in that area jump from 10704 to

10715. He

suggested that the Fort Worth, Texas, Post Office

might possibly have a box number 10707.

The information from the records of the Bank of Dallas

pertaining to the joint savings account and safety deposit box

Of EVA GRANT and JACK RUBY was furnished to SA JAMES S. WEIR by

"JACK RUBY WaS

BETTY CALVERT, Assistant Cashier, Bank of Dallas.

On December 26, 1963, LA 4135-C advised SA HOMER E.

YOUNG that "Stripper SIRI" is SIRI PUTNAM, who is presently

engaged at "The Follies Theater", Los Angeles, California.

On January 3, 1964, LEON CORNMAN, PCI, business agent,

American Guild of Variety Artists, New Orleans, Louisiana, was

contacted by SA ALVIN J. ZIMMERMAN in an attempt to determine

the identity of KITTY (last name unknown), who is reported by

Dallas stripper CANDY CANE to have been associated with JACK RUBY.

CORNMAN advised that the only stripper he knew by the name

KITTY who worked in New Orleans was KITTY RAVILLE. He advised

RAVILLE committed suicide in New Orleans in August or. September

1963.

CORNMAN

stated his records indicate one VIVIAN MELLINGER,

known as KITTY DeVILLE, a stripper, paid union dues at New

rleans August 17, 1963, but he

not believe one i Surrentay

vorking in New Orleans and does

not know her present whereabouts.

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO with whom an interview is reported

here-in is subject of a Dallas Anti-Racketeering file. CIVELLO was

in attendance at the Appalachin Meeting.

COVER PAGE

H

NW 53932. DocId: 32134796

Page 3

---

## Page 4

1D-209

ED+902 (Rov, 3-3-59)

FEI

RAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dato -

7/15/64

On January 14, 1964, DL 91-C advised SA ALFRED

D. NEALY that ROY KIMES

(ROY EUGENE KIMES, FBI #228 639,

a well-known Texas and Oklahoma police character, now

deceased) brought JACK RUBY to his home at Farmersville,

Texas.

He stated that KIMES was trying to buy a motel

located north of Durant, Oklahoma, and was trying to

promote

RUBY into financing the purchase of this motel

for him. Informant stated that he accompanied KIMES and

RUBY to Colbert, Oklahoma, where they let him out and on

their return picked him up and returned to Farmersville:

He stated that this was the only contact he had with

JACK RUBY. Informant stated that this incident was from

six to seven months after KIMES had been released from

the Texas State Penitentiary and approximately four

years ago:

HARVEY OSYAl rant advised that he did not know LE

COVER PAGE

on

1X14/64

_ at

by Special Agent _ ALFRED D

Dallas, Texas

NEALY - 8J

File # DL 44-1639.

Dato dictated 1/15/64

---

