# docid-32288949

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10200-10225

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1227

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/05/1967

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, RES, LCN, GAMBLING OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32288949

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

9/5/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

Mr:

Tosen.

каля

7:+

"".:

MIr.

BIT.

BIr. 1'

TI?.

3Ir.

Mir.

Iar.

Mir.

T'el".

(Priority)

Alis

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781) /":.

FROM: SAC, TAMPA (92-1)'

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

00: TP

Re Omaha airtel to Tampa dated 8/25/67 captioned

•La Cosa Nostra, a xerox copy of which is being enclosed for

the Bureau.

For information of Omaha TRAFFICANTE has for the

past several years spent the major portion of his time in -

the Miami, Fla. area and only recently purchased a new home /

at 740 Northeast 155th St., Miami, Fla.

TRAFFICANTE continues to maintain a residence at

2505 Bristol Avenue, Tampa, Florida which he formerly owned

but which he now leases at

$200 month from VINCENT AMATO,

son of AGOSTINO AMATO, after having sold this residence to

AMATO following TRAFFICANTE's being involved in a tax settle-

ment with IRs.

During the summer months TRAFFICANTE spends a por-

tion of his time at his St. Petersburg Beach, Florida resi-

irl dence.

Neither Tampa or Miami have been able to establish

any particular pattern as to when TRAFFICANTE Will be in

W' either of the above three locations.

The telephone in Miami

and Tampa residences are unlisted and when installed in the

St. Petersburg residence are normally listed in the name of

TRAFFICANTE's married daughter,

Mrs. MARY JO PANIELLO.

i a so a 592-2781-1227 Regis

1 - Omaha (92-265A (RM)

I - Miami (92-88) (RM) EX-11g

Jacksonville (92-31) (RM) (92-7)

(92-326)

JAA: ad

(10)

that.

SEP

1967

Approved:

Special

Agent in Charge

Sent

. M

Per.

DooId:32288949 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John,F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21071

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 92-1

TRAFFICANTE prior to going to Cuba in the 1950's

spent all of his time in Tampa and all of his four brothers

and long time associatés continue to reside in the Tampa area

and the allegations persist that TRAFFICANTE receives a cut

from all gambling operations in Tampa and South Florida.

Tampa

does not at this time have a source sufficiently versed in

TRAFFICANTE activities to be able to predict TRAFFICANTE'S

location at any given time.

According to member sources in

addition to TRAFFICANTE there are two other identified LCN

members in the Tampa area identified as ARTURO MISURACA, aka

Art Price and GIOVANNI (JOHN) MISURACA.

To date no informa-

tion has been developed which would indicate any association

between MISURACAS and TRAFFICANTE or TRAFFICANTE's brothers.

Investigation has shown some association between ARTURO

MISURACA and TRAFFICANTE associate TOMMY SCAGLIONE.

In the Miami area TRAFFICANTE has been known to

associate with STEFANO ANTHONY RANDAZZO, an LCN Cleveland

family member; THOMAS ALTAMURA, member of the CARLO GAMBINO

SR., a

member of the Chicago

"family"; JOHN PHILLIP CERON"/Captain" in the GAMBINO "family»

"family"

and AGOSTINO AMATO,

Bureau requested to grant Omaha authority to permit:

OM 148-C-TE to travel to Florida for the express purpose of

making contact with TRAFFICANTE and eliciting such 'information

as possible from such 'contact.

Tampa prefers that such contact be first attempted

in the Tampa area in the view of the following:

1. " TRAFFICANTE's long time residents in the Tampa

area and the assumption that persons who might be members of

his "family" would be his associates residing in the Tampa

area and possibly his brothers:

gambling action and juke box operations in the Tampa area.

However, Tampa is of the opinion that if Bureau grants Omaha

such authority, Omaha should discuss with OM 148-C-TE the

possible approaches to TRAFFICANTE and allow the informant

to suggest whether his approach should be attempted in the

Miami or Tampa area.

2

DocId: 32288949

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 92-1

In addition to the possibility of contacting

TRAFFICANTE in either the Miami or Tampa area informant

has indicated a Close association with CHARLES C. HUTTER,

aka Snooks, JK File 92-31, Bufile 92-3489 who is currently

207 1n

operating a Used Car lot in the Daytona Beach, Florida area

and who is reportedly a representative of NICK CIVELLA.

Therefore possibility exists that the informant could use

the desire to visit HUTTER as his excuse or reason for

traveling to the Florida area.

If the Bureau does authorize such a trip Omaha

is requested to advise Jacksonville, Tampasand Miami as

to the suggested or adopted procedure to be used by the

informant. It is further suggested that if such trip is

authorized informant should meet with SAS JOHN A. AMBLER

of Tampa and WENDELL W. HALL of Miami, both of whom are

assigned to SANTO TRAFFICANTE before his attempted contact

with TRAFFICANTE and it is suggested that such meeting take

place in a locality removed from Tampa and Miami.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS

DocId: 32288-9110

---

## Page 5

Sín F. Kennedy Assassination Recor

11-14-2017

DocId: 32288949 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hoter..

DATE: 11-14-2017

8/25/67

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, TAUPA (92-218)

SAC,

OMAHA (92-265-A) (P)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Temps sirtel 6/29/67.

The following are answers as furnished by OM 148-C-TE

on 8/11/67 to the sevon questions set forth in referenced

airtel:

1.

When

sod under what circunstancec did ho

meet SANTO TRAPPICANTE, JЛ.?

Informant no: TRAZZICANTE

approxian ta22

14 or 15

years ago in Chicago, Illinois. He vis introduced to

TRATTICANTE by DULL. ALDERISIO.

TRAL SECANTS Vas Litroduced

as "cue of us", neaning o norber of

the "outfit".

Informant

expiained that at that time the Governuens ves crying co

deport CARLOS MARCHILE Of NOW Orleans, and PrattlemE vas

acting in MARCSILD's behalf in order to foreatall this.

Through CM 14S-C-TE the services of "JIGOD" DONAHUE

(n0w dead) vero silisted.

Informant explained that Double

had coce been an sificial of the blate Brewing Conpony in

Milweukee but had goua

Hackington, D. C.,

Whore he becane

a very influential public selaticas man.

DONARUE,

according

to informent, or actortoy,

bad many connections and wis able

to "pull. many strings". in Washington.

OL' 110-C-TE advised

that through DOrAKOR they neve succeseful in ICOping MARCELLO

Eron: being doporied.

• Intormant observed it cost

MANCELLO

"a ton on monoy to thie cure c& DONAHUE", bat

that

MARCELLO

milling-y paid this nosey.

Tamy: (REGISTERED MAIL)

92-1 - 4025

2

- Jacksonville (PAGISTERED MAIL)

SEAROHE!.

2

- Miami

(RECI STERED MAIL)

2 - Omaha

•(1 - 137-71)

(1 - 92-265-4) -

714

JRA:Orb

(8)

pres

DocId: 32288949 Page 6

IENCIOSURE 91-2781-1277

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Notel"

DATE: 11-14-2017

011 92-265-A

Informant also explained that he knows TRAFFICANTE

through their nutual contact, MEYER LANSKY.

In this connec-

tion, informant related that in 1944 and 1945 he had been a

partner of LiNSKY in the operation of a dog track in Council

Bluffs, Iowa, which was most lucrative until they were

forced to close same by then Governor LUE of Iowa.

Informant also advised that TRAFFICANTE 1S a clOSe

associate of VITO GENOVESE Of New York and PHIL ALDERISIO

of Chicago.

2

What territory, if any, does TRAFFICANTE

control?

Informart stated, while he is not positive, it is

his understanding that TRAFFICANTE controls ali the juke boxes

and gambling in Tampa, Florida, and has considerable influence

in Daytona Beach, Florida, in concert with NICK CiVELLA and

SNOOKS HUTTER.

3. Who are the individuals who are 'members"

Of TRAFFICANTE'S

"family'? Are any other

individuals in the Tampa area membors of

ICN, either TRAFFICANTE's 'family' or any

'family'?

Informant advised he does not know who the members

Of TRAFFICANTE's "family" are. He advised that no did know

that TRAFFICANTE has connections in Chicago, works closely

with NICK CIVELLA Of Kansas City, and, as mentioned above,

has the backing of VITO GENOVESE and MEYER LANSKY.

4. What business enterprises, legul or other-

wise, does TRAFFICANTE have an interest in?

+----

Informant advised, in Tampa "all the jukes, all

the gambling".

He also advised that until recently a least,

TRAFFICANTE WaS On GEORGE POLERA'= payroll for $25,000.00 a

year and that he works in concert with SNOOKS HUrTER of

Daytona Beach, and that HUTTER has the bolito action cornered

there.

He observed that when any "heavy" work has to be

• done NICK (CIVELLA) and SANTO (TRAFFICANTE) work together.

5. To what extent is source familiar with

TRAFFICANTE's activities and travels and

associates?

2

DooId: 32288949

Page

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Ом 92-265-А

Informant said that he is not familiar with TRAFFI-

CANTE's activities and travels, that he does not know him

that well.

6.

Is source available to travel to Tampa to

contact TRAFFICANTE and develop information

concerning him?

Informant said that he is available and willing to

travel to Tampa if the Bureau so desires and felt that he.

does know TRAFFICANTE well enough that he could elicit per-

7. What business endeavors in the Tampa area are

controlled by LCN?

Informant stated that other than the jukes and

gambling, he cannot name these without making a trip to

Tampa or going to Chicago and gaining this information from

sources there.

Reference is also made to Jacksonvillé letter to

Omaha dated 7/25/67, wherein CHARLES C. HUTTER,

JR.,

"SNOOKS"

, FBI #1940356, and WALTER I. RAINEY, FBI #37063, are

mentioned.

OM 118-C-TS has previously advised that SNOOKS

HUTTER, originally from Onene, Nebraska, and an extremely

rough man, was in the early 1940's put in contact with the

Kansas City "mob" by LIW falkmL of des moines, lowa, ar

LCN member. BUTTER, while not an LCN member, has for years

head of the LCN there, at Daytona Beach. Informant also

advised a shortly after JUres in dayton Poachetery

there, BUTLER and his wife were murdered in their home.

HUTTER thereafter became the "kingpin" of the lottery racket

in Daytona Beach.

reiterated that HUTTER represents NICK CIVELLA in Daytona

rosterated Hi 8/11/G7 ON 118-C-TE

01 8/11/67 OM 148-C-TE, ag he has in the past,

Beach, Florida, controling numbers games.. He advised that

a nunber of years ago one WALi RAINEY also went to Daytona

Beach, arriving there shortly before HUTTER went. According

to this informant, RAINEY. had been associated with the Kansas

3

DocId: 32288949 Page

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107"

Hote]".

DATE: 11-14-2017

OM 92-265-4

City "mob" for many years, having worked with JOHNNY LAZIA

when he headed it; later with TONY GIZZO, CHARLIE BINAGGIO

and CHARLIE GARGARDA, and finally with NICK CIVELLA, who

now heads it.

Informant stated that RAINEY, like HUTTER,

was sent to Daytona Beach by CIVELLA. He stated he has not '

personally been in contact with RAINEY recently, although be

is in contact from time to time with HUTTER.

ABOVE INFORKANT ADVISED AGENT ONE MISTAKE BY HIM

OR THE CONTACTING AGENT FOULD PROBABLY RESULT IN HIS DEATH.

INFORMATION SET OUI ABOVE SHOULD BE HANDLED IN A HOST CIR-

CUMSPECT MANNER AND,

REPORTED

IS USED. INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM THIS INFORMANT IS NOT TO

BE DISCUSSED WITH ANY INDIVIDUAL OUTSIDE THE BUREAU

DocId: 32288949

Page 9

---

