# docid-32310532

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10303-10146

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 15-16161-205

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

PRJ, ASSOC, TREASURY REPRESENTATIVE, RACKETEERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/25/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF TRS

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO TRS

v9.1

DocId: 32310532

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTAL

CLASSRIED BY 5668SI0/6CL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(0)

374198.

11? 2

1043)

Declassity

#Zit

• DECODES OF DOUBLE CODE CABLE

NUMBER 582 FROM. SIS NUMBER 113 DATHA

1946

AT MEXICO CITY, MEXICO.

RECEIVED VIA STATE DEPARTMENT.

WEINBERG,

WITH ALIASES, ET AL; TFIS.

UNITED SIATES TREASURY,

REPRESENTATIVE, MEXICO CITY, HAS CONTACTEDENIS OFFNGE TO OBTAIN

FROM BUREAU CRIMINAL RECORDS OF DANNY ARDIO AND PAU

AND EDWARD

JONES, CHICAGO RACKETEERS PRESENTLY -IN*

• MEXICO..

INFORMATION THIS

OFFICE IS THAT REQUEST IS BASED ON DESIRE OF TREASURY REPRESENTATIVE

TO EFFECT REMOVAL OF NAMED INDIVIDUALS FROM MEXICO UNDER TERMS-OF/

CONFIDÉNTIAL WORKING AGREEMENT WITH CERTAIN MEXICAN POLICE WHEREBY

ESTABLISHMENT OF EXISTENCE OF UNITED STATES CRIMINAL RECORD IS

SUFFICIENT TO WARRANT REMOVAL FROM MEXICO AS UNDESIRABLE ALIENS.

WITH FOREGOING IN MIND, BUREAU REQUESTED TO GIVE CONSIDERATION TO

FORWARDING STATED CRIMINAL RECORDS TO MEXICO CITY.

OF NAMED INDIVIDUALS IN THE UNITED STATES CONTEMPLATED BY TREASURY

•DEPARTMENT BUT ÁCTION FOLLOWS POLICY OF LOCAL TREASURY REPRESENTATIVE

TÒ KEEP UNITED STATES HOODLUMS OUT OF MEXICO, TAKING AFFIRMATIVE

ACTION WHERE NECESSARY•

RECEIVED:

(0) B-27-46: i

8:42 PM

Mw'/5. 76/67-20

UNDERLINEÖ PORTION OMITTED. FROM MESSAGEL

On to me

8/30/46

AWALTING. CORRE

COPTE

41

(JUL 30 1965

ROCA:

(Soe Di

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disséminated

outside the Bureau,

it is suggested that it be suitably

Forder to

Bureau's cryptographic systems..C

CONFLERA

пі!

DocId: 32310532

Page 2

---

