# docid-32989645

## Page 1

File #:

62-410-116395

Serial Scope:

EBF 665

55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 1

---

## Page 2

62-216395-665

SEP•eks 9-9-75

THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

U.S.

* SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE ON

Re is made to the SSC

..

- INTELLIGENCE

August 20, 1975, request ACTIVITIES (SSC)

for FBI materials and

specifically, to Part V, for which delivery was.

requested by September 9, 1975. Enclosed for

ut approval and forwarding to the SSC is the

orig of a memorandum in full response to Part.V.

Also enclosed for ur records is a copy of the

memo prepared for the SSC.

_I 55171 DorId: 32939645 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SSC-REQueST, August 20, 197T

Part I, 1

RetAiN:

UNEXCISED

LLINFORVATION CONTAINED 3

167-10498

HH 55174

DooId: 32989645

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CITICAL FORM NO, 10

MIAY DO? I DITION

for robin (+1 6118) 157-11-0

UNITED STATES

SR.: RENT

morandin-

TO

: SAC, LOS ANGELE3 (100-19949)

DATE:

6/5/72

FROM : 54 . BERE G. BENJAMIN

SUBjECT: "CHANGED"

•10, aka

Della roover

SM-T 204954004401%

00:

Los Angeles

scesed to protect FOl informant

n 5/31/72<CSIA 5595-S Advised DELIA COOVIE i

using

the pseudonym Bella Stumbo,

so this matter has been

markes "changed".

OSLA indicauca COOVER is using the Bella Stumbo

alias in connecsion with her position as a start writer row

the "Ios Angeles Times"

ACTION

ADEX should be changed to include the new alias and

subject's

position a

a staff writer for the Times. Also,

since subject is writing under a still different pseudonym,

for the konterey Park Progress newspapers, it is suggested

that consideration be given to advising the Internal Revenue

Service that she may be receiving payroll checks under these

pseudonyms and not reporting her total income correctly. appro-

priate investigation should be conducted to verify subjectis

use of the additional pseudonym.

UNCON ANED

EREINS UNCLASSIE

ATE LOOD•D BY SPLALMIRU

100-19414

SEARCHED

1

<134-3.71Л

COLA 6506-51

80-420

ANGELES

TIMES

M0l--!0..

Kinder 1

GGB/seb

7a Dod: 52389688s deo dange died Rehanly da no Mesal Sees a

---

## Page 5

11000: W. Zohare Boulevard

Los Angerog, 6a21 Comes

90024

Jular 25, 1972

Distatot Dizecion

Interoot Hovenue Sorrice.

P. O4 7004 397

Los Arcateo, Coditoente 90053

Dear Six:

Dor your Esformation the Los Angelen Ofetce

of phe 092 to donducties an official invesolgation irvolving

Deile Cooter:

boch Sensenber: 1: 1920, Social Becurity

Account Manoer 55

57416-3993

Te hostcóne do bre attention of chattos angeles

otttoo, that Delta Coover Is oscaff offleer for the Loo

Aucettes inos" rerupaber coing pacudo bone of payza Scuebe

and

that she may not

be reporting her eranings iron this

opployment.

Stumbo.

Enclosed 1s a recent article urieton by Beila

Thas intormation to boing brought to your attention

Ior whatever action you deem necessary.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Very truly yours,

WE 18D0 08V mew

WESLEY

fio GRAPP

Speciat

Agent in Chorge

Enclosure 1

100-

HH 55174

- Addressce. (Rit)

des modie: 000-1075012

1Pk, bab

(3)

DocId: 32989645 Page 5

169-

SEARCHED

INDE

SEAIAL:

FILED

---

## Page 6

FD-350-driev.%-10-031

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

3 FULLES VISCRED

"Thoy Said

Be Shou a

Lidle Girl'

(Indicate page, name of

newspaper, eity and state.)

IV=1 Los Angeles Ti

Los Angeles,

Calif

_

1 one Stall Writer

Forly in due curning of duly 2, e d-yeciole gil

nored Jayes Any fioft was shot te donth as the pioyad

in i yond in lecroian ordens. She wos his vida 42

shotgun poller died from a porsing car, Subsequendlya

tae* Chicano woe from the neighbaring Nervo!:

bario woe crored. Being hold on cessicion of murder

in dee killing ore Donle Anteio, 21, Oscer Hernandez,

22, and Michari Romirez,

Donald Anton's mother Beatrice, jo, is a devoul.

C'atioir. She has a makeshit altar fi her bedrooro

hore she prags each night before going to bed.

She bed me fiothod bor rosary the might police

come looking for her son.

"They:

ward four of them at the dook. 'They

turned through the hower searching for Don. I

said he wasn't bonir. bur what did they want him

for And they said. becanse he shot a little girl,

that mo bor killed a chiid."

Geatrico Antelo was sitting at her kitchen table

staring listicely d a cold con of coffee in front of

her, her voice a weary whieper.

"Thes didn't have unitime on. so I thought

maybe they were some of Don's feirnis playing a

bad joke. I told them to stop fooling around about

comothing so aufu!."

Though it was nearly noon now. Beatrice Antelo

will wore her honcernbe and slippers. Her small

kitchen was half Jost in the stagnant, gloom of

drawn shades oe closed mindows

"I said no. it was imonsible. Not my son. He

wad newer te his the do cuch a taile thing."

Tomer closin dropper her hood ino War

More. Ange cited seman the that a hear io

countled gee cared lan nor talk a tarade

i hope the tood. not ot

raid fter clicher die nichest or to me?

he told Truce led is a fed pro They

"gcoays"

IN 55174: DocId)32989645:: Pagel6:, 41

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE S0CASY PALEN

Date: 7/19/72

Edition: Wednesday final

Author:

Editor:

TIlle:Dell: : Coover

Character:

or

Classification: 100-19949

Submitting Office:LOs Angel"

• Being Investlaated

SEARCHEI.

SERIALGED

•FILED

JUL 2410721

.E2:/4220918

A01d0S

---

## Page 7

"He can to me and put his arms around me and

ir!!

Лісн i-

late wee died enough iro

home," "?!

a read a de are Gen

slappine lee to lie cont

along incle yours.

"And he cried

the thee title chant

Then Beatrice datole reary With en coony few

where teeth the meth. took on lychiell,

than more the alter ditorated brandtoo dire

Meien Morandor l and her hated Aalong.

ob, eat side to irie on their couch in a cuties li

mile dimi

ang done more doing cal clinine cords t-

"it to loop would 1 him." 8l:

phies and photographs of their five cood tyco 8.

thirt!

draced deminged could this of lookins for my

ha: happrned to them thi: cuminer

ic can the tried to

liatened politely,

in their experience has carpared them to dont to

they be i mare come protesque mistake

a murder charge against a member of their famil:

She knew her son. Ho was a good bos. He loved least of all against Oscar their quietest cleat,

chitire lie and his cirricad wanted to have a

pin lands when they got maried-waich would

Mas mon ax Don fond d jon it isn't casy to lind

-

a lob they rou don't have a car to look outside tha

barric she had explained.

Meaniser she ported out, Don was a good stu-

Gem. at couriter College. Die studied hard. made

8001 Wadea, "wos determined to make something

out of bimsalf

Bantire Antelo absentmindedly stroked a tiny

broii: dog slooping peacefully in her lap. He is

ber watchdog

strangers approach the

Monoe, he poles his bear through a broken living

room wado pane and barke with comic ferecity.

Don had been in trouble before, of course, she

conunued. an edee of bitterness ererping into her

voice as sho told now ho had hech thrame mut of

Excelsior High School tour vears agn because "he

J09g hair before it was common.

bruches with the police betore. too, she said, withr

out claborating-but. most barrio youths have si-

milar experiences.

'Won't Care About Finine Min'

"You have to live here to know what it's like

Police exerwhere, potent one can't cacapa, rio

' For voice tralled dif ma recianed shru

obe makes less than 88.000 ammalls, so she can'

affond is hire a private automer in defend her son

she said. And

she's certain the coun appointed

public riefender "won't care about saving him."

A cough suddenly seized her. The doctor has

warner her agains! interriers, she explained. She

doesn't answer the iclephone much anymore cith-

er necause ti often turns out to be somebody call-

1ng her the mother of a monster or threatening to

bomb ber house or. worse still. to harm her older

son, 31, a father of to with a job outside Nor-

"I guess it makes pecule feel better to get the

hate off their chests when something as horrible

as this happens

" she sigher. "I just hang up."

But her mind cleari wasn't on herseli--it was

still on that. last. nich!

on the soone that had

awaited her when the dad tie to dficers re-

turner tame.

"Three bout dipole food iken d the Ramirez

H# 55174

Keities

in in Market hot card dear, toward

the maid clare a buce cicaday of the reconsion

Docta!32989645 Page' 7h:

sant.

---

## Page 8

COET

Hale and Antonin der

cha datin letter

CANTA

PhoenT timest

Rich -gador dropouis

Emee thon, they into caj their lamih cand mo toa.

dently lied accorded to

fare. do hepter, to bums.

singie, chociplicated phi

Joseph a namele, proble

moris - minder.

who work hard, dario rican-tume parrote

God, dir ipher the chita

Americane, Pesecially the

Hemar"

business witt note out ar

coroner.

meager. ond it will adronce

and peaccably

aid.

children, de may erra

come progressively richer.

And. until lutr, the iler

nender

formula

seemed & sound the

intouid, & big solid man

dressed in neat polyester

clacks and a criep button.

down shirt, iã a cinder in

a nearby steel foundry. He

has ravel his money and

now almost ovas lie mode

eat litia pink house vinich

bo hartin

comfortable one.

pride in it.

Fishful Woman

she: 'bcame.

wont to serve his country

withost question, Tie was

in the Arnt in a lead tir

til an automobile accident.

carned him both & medical

discharac

and

dimen. on he works in a

Norwalk packing plant.

Likewisee

when

demander was drafted he

too went williondy, serving

as a quor at Da dang Air

Force base in Vicinam in.

ill his discharge with ta

Bronze dark

mer Me bad boon looking

"ITe never really talked

much aloud vietnam. kr

woman with a focal

cept be was alad he didn't

scrubber.

hase do kill anybody:

prone to twisong nervs-

Helen Hemander, her

ly at her wodding rings,

voire she. hesitan.

has always con

single.

"Oscar never liked to box

mindedly

drined in hor

in bich school either. hi

duties as a wife and moth-

cause he didn't like to hit

er. Never has she even

anvbody.

he

played

considered

working out-

bacchall. And track."

side her home, though ihe

She blushed embar

Hernandez family, lie

massed it scamed. lo rie-

most in the bario, has al- four her son's passive na-

ways needer more money live.

than they have had.

Indeed, it soon becomes

Boin reinted Jehoah's'

amply apparent to a stran

Witnesses. the couple

the

Hernandez

have also enforced a rigid

mouschold that making cy.

brand. of religion in their

cuses for Oscar-who is

household. Their sons

accused of driving the car

have been laughi, among

that

carried force Am

The dings, that ride chit hild

samchor undigni-

fied, even unpatrintic, in

solar as it might imply a

fear that the American

sistem of justice is incapa-

ble of discovering truth

madele and rea

sionately on its ow.

HH 55174

DooId: 32989645 Paqe8

---

## Page 9

so grating Con

And do action to that maca

"i've bott

1y91090

macied and two of them

Mates:

prescort

will we do the Hereor

?!!'

antar ind

a bon: in not:

are Mille tridene.

211210

Silis

1:17

vagueri.

filih

Mint linow

Couches

A1!

mineralle

Win will materent tact

som in motio

Ee Fargoiny'

home timet el the time"

virior,

watched tris-

he read a lot di

and moons mor

лілР?.

helped

30C

around

the

house. Every morning wa

made

the his together

and wrathed fine diches."

ana Tanished

into a back

in manly with a bad

ing photograph?

athum.

turned rat in be wat, in

her beat. Kirien Tirman.

dro condore immutable

proof

in-

Moccace in this bizarre

emisode.

The took was Miled willi

piciters Coral had taken

in

— photos

chitriran.

Walls. rohand.

refugees who hung around

with

Oscar

and

Oscar's

friends.

"He loved eniriren." said

Helon Hermandea:

as An-

tonio modded rigorous

agreement. She looked

suddenly

srim. as if che

had realized,

may hic

for

the first ting how serious.

l important. thai point

might eventually hecome.

"I haven't.

visited hiaz

jet," she

said, self-con-

scinusty admitting she was

"afraid

in see that he's

really locked up in jail."

She would probably just

cry, she said

But, she added, she's

gotten past. her initial hy's-

seria wich a dose of tran-

quilizers-and by having

her telephone

num l ci

changed. Like Alis. Ante

Jambo sas getting hale,

calls at a daily rate.

That Mood how the must heat, they sair

un fecling.

found o

her child, too, just as I ciy

for dyl.

grandchiidren-in

bors

and toads for 2 in4

in man;

d people live incried, canoe gerat

it

112711

louso- bied in a shrickied laucti

haid

Prankte%,

iNS

No, a disabled conctruction

howae, chasing a singic ta.

Harle!.

vated dog and, more otten

however, thore die only 10

that

jus

wife itose

is

lage of one d their own.

visiting

an.

citing

hrother

100md pathoge

4-vear-oid

in Mexico and his son Mi-

hop: the red-ofed victim of

chact,

is in jail.

chicken posa

On a decent hot wreckday

morning. cight

famt?y

Sonior Sepunchile:

members

liple senilered.

On a couch, hali covered

about the tiny squalid liv-

by a shoot, Yolanda Rami.

rea, 24, the senior daughter,

ing room, dank with the

inners,

was outshouting a Popere

blaring

the

conting

Loods

indl

1,00

many

bodies packed too

telerision.

Now

seven-

close together without

months premant, for the

third time, she was trying

benefit or even a fan.

There was

manito

to resolse tita guccion of a

himwolf.

jail.

grizzled

missing

Mouse with her

man who sat in his under-

sister

Marina,

21,

six

shirt in a corner chair,

months pregnant, who sat

methodirally

rolling

somchow projecting roc

breakfast beans into toni

solid stability in an other

les, burrito sale, ai the

wise incredibly

sone unfolding be-

cirl of the room.

A near-mese third

-More of his four daughe daughter,

Sylvia, mother

terr-all mothers, all un

of tiro of the rampaging

sad holging out

of her light shorts,

ning hersolf with a purple

which she

had snatched

screaming baby who had

spun it wildly in the air

knock the fire off her ciga-

ret and get smacked for it.

"God, they'll all get the

that'll be," lamented Syl-

•via.

"Well hell they all gotta

get it sometime " obscover

Yolanda

sagely,

demon-

strating that, of the three

women, she is by far the

most philosophic.

none of lis

arr

mal-

rieri,"

lording

downrich mored contic

question,

perated the

as who hunched te m

we all ei her bume or thoy

port families."

HW 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page 9

---

## Page 10

... ...

......

Dupeacon Children tops.

Minali cold:

doser trasons, bari locu

abet cute mitre tid

him althouch to suf.

there back Tarly

100,

he saturd bog hintu!.

fine from no finest thai

wee tari bidon of tax don

er nicht in a har fiate,

some cal of icoti" he

chuckle

relishing

memory of the littie

squabbie."

Put ceriously, he said, lid

wonld lies do toll ihe state

to go shore its welfore.

"I want to work but all I

ever lane was hard labor.

riesk jon:

I can barely

even rerd."

Withone AWDC mid,

he

added.

we'd all probably

starve."

is ji. is. ho's $1.-

000 berrid

in his house

paymants so, sooner nix-

te?,

they! all probably he

out on the street anywar.

Noborly looked very

alarmer.

Nobody looked, cher,

like they even

P0M011-

berad their hinther Mi-

chacl, until Ramires sud-

renty reminded thri,

"I don't even have the

money for gas lo go see

my son," he cait.

changed instantly 10

What concerned every-

hody present, it seemed,

was not so much Alike's

plight, but rather the of-

ject it would have on his

mother when she returns

She has suffered from

serere nervous disoriers

for years, they said. And

shel she finds out whats

• happened to her son-the

HH 55174 Do0Id:32989645 Page 10

her nice the diee."

wait? wish we cold

got hea to atay down there

" lamantr

sylvia, lighung another cir

shc'i!

2010600023

omething's

wrong:

ais ars

jin: realiat.

Miguel: Tronirer.

who

has a cortata jedisputahte

dignity

nor! of uncom.

promising

hari

arown comber in his cor-

2121'

"As you can see, it's

mostly we a

questich of

survival, like in a jungle,

for Mexicans like us. Ve

just live from day to day.

That's why a lot of Cora.

90s hang on to their pride

and acl mad cast-it's all

they got.

Tie

shrugged.

looking

around at his daughters.

wino listened, suddenly at.

lent

Unst of

bi

kids

had

either heen kicked out of

or they had

tis-

guel, be continued.

One son. 22, was in tail

alicaciy,

for

undisclosed

Only his oldest

boy,

is had erer

gotien

our of the Corwalk barrio,

although, Bamirez digress-

ed, he bad hopes for his

rounges son, 1o, ho was

'a good stucent and a hair

One Thing Gure

Meantime. whatever his

kids had done,

said, he knew one thing

never hurt a kid or be pan

a rotten thing like that

He may have been mean

sometime, but he would

not take it out on babies."

But, sighed Ramirez, it's

out of his hands now. And

the whole family expects

"They'll just figure he's

a dirty Dierian capable of

cons call jra joy killine?

Thay'll probaold fest lock

him up for good, reithout

Mania talee shout it,"

---

## Page 11

12000 1522612643

Seudevard

Coltonsta

June

29/3

90024:

1102203

Rayonue Derrice

Tu2ü

Orsice lan 393.

1080106 g

Calidorote 90053:

Miradle Deant soneaver (Piotd Audie #2502)

boar Sirs

Retezianco to nude to our totter of duly 25: 1972,:

palating to an tycotagaston we deze conductine of chab

tisc

Septenber de. 2900% S0ed0l. Socieaty

Acosed unber 9D7-16-3063; cnd

so the eclephone coil betuden

Sp0odal Agent 017m2wt

Go Benjamin of Chas otriod cac Lon

at your ordico locuted at 9150 Bout Floly Drive, BL

Monies Colid inses

947089:02 200d55 a sune 4y

1973.

to sid in your invescigotion in thad boctor, there

are ens108ed to desos duplications ca

articles, which appearsd

in the

Woo Angoles Mee Pross

1970%

bearing tho

byline

O1 Della Rosa,

iscues of Warch 20 ud June 19%

wichis believed to be

another pseudonym utilized by urs.

Cover'

•This Informotion is boing fuentshed for thatever

action may be appropriate.

Very truly yours,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 10-20-00 BY.

JOL D.

MALEGSON

Assiataht Darcotor in Charge

Enclosures 2

100-191490

SEAR

Tire

2 - Addressee (RM)

/1, - Los ingeles (100-19940)

GG1/c11

(3)

AH 55174 DocId: 32989645

Page .11

---

## Page 12

RETAIN:

SSC-REDWEST, August 201975

Part II, 2.

ALLATOR! * NON CONTAINED

;

NH 55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 12

---

## Page 13

" =TANONID FORM NO. ES

Office Men.

JUM . UNITED .

GOVERNMENT

TO

:IR. TOLSON

Vim

DATE: 12/21/49

FROM : J. P. MOHR

SUBJECT: APPLICANT INVESTIGATIONS

ALL INFORE.

A*SA CONTAINED

HERE N/8

DATE

ClOBR_

нт. Curos.

"r. Harbo

Ner.

The Director has inquired concerning the procedure which

bohr

Ponn IngLon

Хг.

quirn

Tane

was followed in the Atomic Energy Act applicant case whereby

Tola.

uT.

HOOM

Nesso.

the flashington Field Office was

not alerted to the fact that

4198 H01=08

MI39 Gandy

Harold Ickes, whose name was given as a reference,

should not be

interviewed.

There is attached a

memorandum dated December 20, 1949 from

as a reference on his pul or application form.

From a reading of the

attached memorandum which was prepared by Section Chief G. C. Callan

of the Applicant section, it is obvious that the supervisors who handle

applicani matters in the Investigative Division do not have any policy

with respect to the interulewing of rejerences, Jormer employers,

associates or others except where the Bureau has specifically indicated

that certain individuals should not be contacted, such as Henry steele

commager, personnel of CBS and the like. As a matter of fact, the

present policy in effect at the seat of Government concerning applicant

investigations is to interview all references and the attached memorandum

indicates that Harold Iches had been interviewed in the past in connec

tion with applicant investigations and has exhibited a cooperative

office for interview in connection with the stomic Energy Act case: ""

mentioned.

As you know, at the executives Conference the Director's wishes

with regard to interviewing persons who have demonstrated hostile .

attitudes toward the Bureau have been considered in the past ano no

instructions have been issued to the supervisors at the seat of Gover

ment or to the field concerning this matter except as to specific in-

dividuals

whose names have been sent to the field in the recent post

in an SAC letter. This matter was called to the attention of the

Executives Conference as recently as December 20, 1949 and the Confer

ence felt it would be undesirable for the Bureau

to embark upon a pro-

gran of aduising the field to not intervie certain individuals in

connection with various types of investigations conducted by the Bureau.

The Executives Conference realized that the hostile attitule toward the

Bureau stèms not from our criminal investigative work but from the

Eureau's investigative activity in the jield of applicant

investigations

the Loyalty program. The Conference feels that the blacklisting

of individuals is fundamentally bod and will ultimately result in ei

treme embarrassment to the Bureau.

COPY DESTROYED

THE 0.

Is also felt it is extremely

7,77

102-12911 -

M60 NOV ÷51801

/197

NW 5St DocId: 32989645 Paye 13

---

## Page 14

lifficult to draft a letter to all SAl's pointing up the problem to

them and expecting them to adhere to any policy which will eliminate

the difficulty which we have encountered heretofore.

I have discussed this matter with dr. Carison in some detail

and he jeels that we may be able to control to some extent the inter

viewing of persons hostile to the iureau at the seat of Government

without furnishing a "black list" or statement of policy to the field.

Ir Carison feels, and I agree with hin, that the major portion of our

difficulty stems from the Loyalty investigations and applicant investi-

gations.

Isr, Carlson and I therefore propose that the following pro-

cedure be instituted immediately at the seat of Government in order to

meet the objectives desired by the director in connection with this

matter:

Io The Crime Records Section shall be responsible for preparing

and maintaining in a current status a list of those individuals known

to be hostile to the bureau. It is felt that' it is imperative that a

list bé prepared. because the judgment of individual supervisors re-

serring cases to the field will differ depending upon the extent of

their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of

various and sundry periodicals.

It would also mean that each superuisor

would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a

faulty memory. Furthermore, an individual may at one time appear to be

hostile to the bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it

may be very desirable to interview him.

2. This list shall be furnished to only those supervisors at the.

seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty

or applicant cases

to the field. This will include superuisors in the

Ioyalty section of the security Division, the Applicant section of the

Investigative Division ard those supervisors in the Administrative

Division handling Bureau applicant cases.

This will mean that not more

than 25 supervisors at most at the seat of Government will have pos

session of such a list. These supervisors shall check all references

and present and former employers against this list bejore

referring

the case to the field for investigation.

It should be realized that the procedure recommended will not

provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or

associates whose names are brought up during the course of the inves-

tigation.

It is felt, however,

that the bulk of the people who are

interviewed in these cases are

set out as references by the applicant

and it would only be on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the

Bureau will be interviewed on a neighborhood investigation or as an

associate of the applicant.

-2-

HH 55174 DocId: 32989615 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ALL INFOR ITION CONTAINED

" TO

THE DERBOTOR DARE 10:2000 SY SPLALARL DATE: 2/4/30

FROM

Tolson

: THE EXECUTIVES CONFERENGE

NEX: 01088.

Clavin

Ladd

Nichols

SUBJECT:

heres

tracy

t!..

Egan

The

•Executives Conference of January 4, 1950, consiste

Gurnes

Harbo

Mire Mohi

¿Fennington

iro of Messrs. Tolson, Glaurecordance with the Director

cana 1

carIson, lease and wohr,

in-.

Room

Nesse

structions, considered the attached memorandum of December

1949, WIth

investigations and particularly the method suggested

respect to the procedures in conducting applicant all

Miss Holnes

Uss Gandy

to avoid intere

views with those individuals having a hostile or critical attitude,

toward the Bureau and its work.

It was pointed out to the conference that apparently the

hostility and criticism of the bureau stem not from our normal day to

day criminal investigative work but to a very slight extent to inves

tigations in the Internal security field and very specifically and

¡definitely to applicant and Loyalty investigations.

It was jet that

is some procedure could be devised to avoid interviews with individuals

in applicant type cases where the individuals have exhibited a hostile

or critical attitude toward the bureau that much could be accomplishe

o eliminate the articulties experienced in the past. Ihe Conference

felt it would be undesirable to prepare a list of any sort which mighi

¡be termed a "blacklist" to be distributed to all of the divisional

offices.

It was proposed that the following procedure be instituted

immediately at the Seat of Government in order to meet the objectives

desired by the Director in connection with this matter:

1. The Crime Hecords Section shall be responsible for preparing

and maintaining in o current status a nist of those individuals, Enown

to be hostile to the Bureau. It is felt that it is imperative that a

list be prepared

because the judgment of individual supervisors re-

ferring cases to the field will difjer depending upon the extent of

their day to day newspaper reading, radio listening and perusal of

various and sundry periodicals.

It would also mean that each supervisor

would have to either prepare his own list or endeavor to depend on a

faulty memory.

Furthermore, on individual may at one time appear to be

hostile to the bureau and subsequently his attitude may change and it

may be very desirable to interview he the sagic of a memo.

Each to tish t he

2. This list shall be furnished to only those supervisors at the

seat of Government who have the responsibility for assigning Loyalty

or applicant cases to the field. This will include supervisors in the

Loyalty section of the security division, the Applicant Section of the

Investigative Division and those supervisors in the Administrative

Division handling sureau applicant cases.

This will mean that not more

than 25 superuisors at most at the seat of Government will have pos

session of such a list. These Supervisors shall check all references

and present and former employers agusorseshis list before referring

the case to the field for investigation.

INDEXED -

$ 1950

LABD

---

## Page 16

It was pointed out that the procedure recommended will not

provide against interviews with neighbors of the applicants or subjècts

under investigation in connection with the Loyalty program nor would it

provide against interuiews of associates whose names are brought up

auring the course of the investigation Likewise it would not provide

against interuiews. with college professors uhose names were not given

by the applicant of the Loyalty subject as references, but who are

contacted, in the course of the ordinary investigation.

It was jelt,

however,

that the bulk of the people uno are interulewed in these

cases are set out as rejerences by the applicant and it would only be

on a rare occasion that a person hostile to the Bureau would be inter

viewed in a neighborhood investigation, as an associate or as a college

professor.

"It was also unanimously recommended by the Conference that in

addition to the preparation of the list recommended and the checking

at the seat of Government by the indicated superuisors, that where a

specific individual has monifested hostility of unjust criticism against

the Bureau that the specific field office or offices which would likely

contact the individual be aduised in writing in the form of a Personal

and Confidential Sal letter. In these letters the SAC will be instructed

that it is his responsibility to aduise all of the Agents in the office

of the undesirability of contacting the individual in question without

prior pureau authority. The field will be instructed that in address-

ing their communications to the Bureau requesting authority to contact

such individuals, the letter or communication should not contain the

phraseology that the interview will be conducted unless advised to the

contrary but specific approval must be obtained from the Bureau before

such a contact is made.

Should the Director agree with the recommendations of the

conference set forth in this memorandum, appropriate steps will be

taken to inaugurate the policy recommended.

Respectfully,

For the

Conference

61k.

Clyde Tolson

CC - Br- Clegg

HH 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page 16

---

## Page 17

insane

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SAC LET'

R 66-78

UNITED STATES DEPARTHENT O' JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ars Keply, Please Rejer to

File No.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535.

December 15, 1966

RE: COURTNEY A EVANS

PERSON NOT TO BE CONTACTED

On December 10, 1966, Senator Robert F. Kennedy released

to the press a copy of a letter to him dated February 17, 1966, from

former Assistier Director Courtney A. Evans. In direct contradiction

to olficial memc. anda prepared by Evans for Bureau files during the

early 1960's, his February 17, 1966, letter to Kennedy stated that

Evans! did not discuss the use of "microphones by the File with Kennedy

during his tenure as Attorney General--nor did Evans "know of any

written material that was sent to you" (Kennedy) "at any time concerning"

microphone surveillances.

In view of Evans" obvious lack of integritv, at legard for

the truth and duplicity toward the FBI, he should not be contacted

without prior Bureau approval.

Very truly yours,

ahoover

hn Edgar Hoover

Director

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED i

DATE 102000015224LAN

HH 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Toluón

Mohr .

UNITED STATES C

i Memora.

' TO

Mr. Belmont

DATE: July 7, 1961

FROM :

C. A. Evans

Evan: -

Malono

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele, Room

Gandy

SUBJECT:

*ORGANIZED CRIME AND

RACKETEERING SECTION...

TOF THE DEPARTVENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREINISSNOU SERRAMIL

ATE 1/200

in line with the Director's approval, the Attorney General was

contacted this morning, July l, 1961, relative to his observation as to the

possibility of utilizing "electronic devices" in organized crime investigations.

It was pointed out to the Attorney General that we had taken action

with regard to the use of microphone surveillances in these cases and while

they represented an expensive investigative step, we were nevertheless utilizing

them in all instances where this was technically feasible and where valuable

information might be expected. The strong objections to the utilization of

telephone taps as contrasted to microphone surveillances was stressed.

Attorney General stated he recognized the reasons why telephone taps should

be restricted to national defense type cases and he was pleased we had been

using microphone surveillances where these objections do not apply wherever

possible in organized crime matters.

The Attorney General noted that he had approved several technical

surveillances in connection with security-type investigations since he took

office, but that he had not kept any record and didn't really know what he had

approved and what surveillances were currently in operation. He said that for

his own information he would like to see a list of the technical surveillances

now in operation. He added that this could be brought over to him personally

and that he would look it over and immediately return it because he realized

the importance of having these records maintained under the special security

conditions which only the FBI had.

If the Director approves, we will have the list of technical

surveilances prevared, delivered personal y to the Attorney General an

then returned to the Bureau's file.

Keving

1 - Mr. Sullivan

I - Mr. J. D. Donohue

3l

1 517÷D

age 18.

---

## Page 19

OPTION. I PORM NG. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERN

Memorandum

TO

Nir. Belmont

DATE:

August 17, 1961

FROM

C. A. Evans

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sulliven

Tavel

Trotter

Tele, Room

Ingram.-

Gandy

SUBJECT:

MICROPHONE SURVELLIANCES

The Attorney General was contacted on the morning of August i7, 1961,

with reference to the situation in New York City concerning the obtaining of

leased lines from the teleyhone 'company for use in connection with microphone

surveillances. This maver was aiscussed with the Attorney General and he

was shown a specimen copy of the proposed letter which would be used. The

Attorney General approved the proposed procedure in this regard and personaily

signed the attached memorandum evidencing such approval.

Enclosure

I - Vir. Rosen

1- Mx. Sullivan

CAE:sp FP

-8-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BRaINS UNCLASSIE

DATE ODO OR BY PACHY

REC- 51

66-51s

an unraid

arartacons

17 AUG-31:1968

- 1032

INCLOSURE

1).D

CEP 141603

HH 55174 DocId:32989645 Page 19

---

## Page 20

TOP SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURIAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Repiy, Please Rejor to

Filo No.

WASHINGION 25. D. C.

August 17, 1961

In connection with the use of microphone

surveillances it is frequendly necessary to lease a special telephone.

line in order to monitor such a surveillance.

These situztions

occur when it is impossible to locate a secure monitoring point

in the irmediate vicinity of the premises covered by the microphone.

who site west,

Even though a special telophone line is utilized, this activity in

no way involves any interception of telephonic communications and

is noi a ielephone tap.

In the New York City area the telephone company

has over the years insisted thai a letter be furnished to the telephone

company on eaci occasion when a special telephone line is leased by

the 231.

It is required that such a lease arrangement be with the

approval of the Attorney General. In the pest we have restricted

the utilization of leased lines in New Yor's City to situations involving

telephone taps, all of which have been approved by tiù ittorney General.

We have not previcusly used leased es in connection

with microphone surveillances because of certain technical carriculties

which exisied in New York City. These technical difficulties have,

however, now been overcome.

ii we are permitted to use leased telephone

lines as an adjunct to our microphone survalances, this type of coverage

can be materially extendeú both in securily and major criminal cases.

Accordingly, your approv?i of our utilizing this leased line arrangement

is requested. A sample oi the letter which it is proposed will be sent

to the telezone company it a leased line is secured in connection wit

microphone surveillances is attached.

M! !!!.

AppIOVed:

Date:

TY SECRET

HN 55174 Docld:32989615 Page 20

---

## Page 21

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

• OPTis

2. 10

5010-100

M.nr

GSA GIN. REG.NO. 27

UNITED STATES C

VERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Bishop

M.

dones

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

DATE:

7-11-72

HEREIN

HERE YD202

Fell.

Bates

+15HI00

/. "Call than

Campbell

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalboy

Jenkins

Marshall

Miller, E.S

Ponder

Soyars

Tele. Room -

Mr. Kinley —

Mr. Armstrong -

Ms. Herwis -

Mrs. Neenan -

Alf Yo

The Not to Contact list is a card index of 332 in-

dividuals whose statements or attitude, generally when contacted

on official business, gave rise to doubts as to the advisability

When a person was placed on the

Not To Contact list, the Field Office covering the residence

or occupation or both was advised that this particular individual

should not be contacted without prior Bureau authority. Thus,

the Not To Contact list did not prohibit future contact, but

specified it could be made only after clearance with the Bureau.

Examples of the type of individuals on this list

are sei ivil jelu.

-DI. Vannevar Bush: DI. Bush was placed on

the Not To Contact list in June, 1964, at

which time he was connected with the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology.. He was so designated

when he made derogatory statements concerning the

•Bureau when contacted on an applicant-type case.

Rex Stout: -Rex Stout is an author who was

designated for this list in 1965 because of his then-

new mystery novel, "The Doorbell Rang."

This novel

presented the My in tos eperations a they delate

to the plot of the book.

Enclosure - Sent 7-13-72

REG30

541

1 - Mr. Felt

1

-

Mr. Bishop

EX 101

1

- Mr. Dalby

- Mr. Jenkins

-

Mr. Bates

1

- Mr. Miller

20 JUL 18 1972

-

Mr. Callahan

- Mr. Ponder

- Mr. Cleveland

- Mr. Soyars

1 - Mr. Conrad

1

- Mr. Walters

ORIME RESCARCEL

1

-M. A. Jones

DGH: đim

(15). Livi

OBSERVATIONS & RECOMMENDATIONS

CONTINUED OVER

...

IN 55174 DocId: 32989645

0 JUL 24,197 age 21

---

## Page 22

M. A. Jones to Mr. Bishop Memo

RE:

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

OBSERVATIONS:

It is not felt that the list continues to serve

a useful purpose, and it is further believed that the

responsibility of restricting contact with a person who is

antagonistic toward the FBI of law enforcement in general

should be that of the Agent in Charge.

RECOMMENDATIONS:

to all offices.

1. That the attached memorandum be forwarded

That if approved, the attached memorandum

be returned to the Crime Records Division for dissemination

to the field.

Waled.

1/14172

1=2. Aggrand.

208

10:56 Pos

2-

HH 55174 DocId:32989645 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SAC, Albany

July 13, 1972

Acting Director, IBI

NOT TO CONTACT LIST

miles:

'nite hood

11

As you know,

in the past fron, time to time,

various individuals have been placed on captioned list.

This action has been taken because of derogatory statements

or alverse action regarding the FBI or lay enforcement agencies

in general by the individuals involved.

This is to advise you that the Hot Io Contact

list is being discontinued, and you should use your

own best judgment if a question arises as to the desirability

of a particular contact in an investigative natter.

ALL RESPENTION CONTAINED

ATE /00-00

1 - All Other Field Offices

9-010

REC 43

542

NOTE:

See M.

A. Jones to Bishop Memo, captioned, "Not to

Contact List," dated 7-11-72.

DGH : đjm

(6)

19 JUL 17 18782-2, 1

Felt

Bates

Bishop

Callahan

Campbel!

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalbey

Jenkins

Marshall

Miller, E.S.

Ponder

Soyars

Walters

Tele, Room -

Nr. Kinley

Mr. Armstrong-

°3. Herwig —

Neenan

55174

MAILED B

JUL 1 4 1972

"FBl

111

DocId: 32989645

PE UNIT [

Page

23

---

## Page 24

SSC-Request, August 20, 1975

PART I(3) foR delivery 9-9-75

UNEXCISED -

ALLI

EREINI

AINED

DATE 102000 120R

HH 55174 DocId: 32989645

Page 24

---

## Page 25

1. Information identifies a peculiarly sensitive

foreign intelligence operation.

2.

Information identifies a peculiarly sensitive

ongoing foreign intelligence operation.

3.

agency.

Information identifies a foreign intelligence

4.

Information identifies another U.S. Government

agency:

HW 55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 25

---

## Page 26

PART I (3) foR delivery 9-9-75.

NH 55171 DocId:32989645 Page 26

---

## Page 27

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAI FORM NO, 10

5010-108

MAY 1961 EDITION

UNITED STATES

VERNMENT

Memorandum

ALL SUPERVISORS - LATIN-ALERICAN,

RESEARCH-SATELLITE, NATIONAL- DATE:

ITIES INTELLIGENCE AND SOVIET SECTIONS

#. R. WANNALL

COPY NO.

CONTROL - REFERENCE FILES

SECRET

(Revised)

August 10, 1967

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conred -

Felt -

Gol

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

=

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLAOSIFIED EXCE

Attached is a document which has been isgued in all

Sections to serve as a ready reference for all supervisors.

It is designed (1) to enable Supervisors to channel

newspaper clippings, publications data, and other material to

spocific files where it can be readily located for use then

needed (quick reierence

to this document will enable you to

dosignate naterial for logical file by file number); (2) to

elininate creation of unnecessary control or reference files

there one

alregay exists; (3) to provida Supervisor with ready

reference titles to utilize when witing naterial of general

nature;

(4). to provide a new Supervisor with a starting point

whereby he can get

familiar with background of york under his

supervision; and (5) to enable Supervisors to have available

a starting point for necessary research.

WHERE

Revisions and

additions are being issued as they are

received,

Each Supervisor should furnish suggested additions

and revisions as they occur go document will be current and

workable.

The cooperation of each supervisor is needed to keep

it conplete and up to date. Send suggested revisions or

additions to #. R. Warnali, Room 614 - 9&D.

10-2700

CLASSIFIED DY SPLALML

DECLASSIFY ON: 20X-

#MDR-16

Chesit C28

exempt isom GDS,

Date i Decassification Indefinitel

SECREL

Control-Reference Files

Page 1 - Revised

August 10, 1967

_MY 55171 DocId:32989615 Bage 27

---

## Page 28

ONTROL FILES SET UP WITHI

TANDARD

EOREIGN SUB-FILE LIST

SECRET

Files listed below are applicable to all countries

siaply by addition of the sub-file number of the particular

country.

(See Standard Sub-File list for Foreign Countries

which follows this listing.)

In many instances

the sub-file

may not have been made up yet because it has not been needed.

However,

in you designate material for such sub-files, in the

sub-file will be made up where presently nonexistent.

event you desire to use one of these files for correspondence

you are not bound by the precise title here.

The titles should

likewise be made applicable to each country by addition of the

country name, for example "Diplomatic List - Hungary."

File

Eile Number

Anagram */

65-62456

Clandestine Shipments of Material

to Russia and Satellite Countries

105-20964

Communist Party

64-200

Current Soviet Espionage and Subversive

Activities

64-211

• Defectors

100-357681

Diplomatic List

62-6404

Diplomatic or International

Organization Visa Holders

105-16424

Economic Matters

110-6

Exchange of Cultural Relations (or

Educational Exchanges)

64-25441

Foreign

Funds Outside the U.S.

112-8

Foreign Miscellaneous

• 64-175

Foreign Political Matters

109-12

Inquiries to the State Department

64-27223

Regarding Relatives, Property and Funds

in Foreign Countries (or Requests for

Information from Foreign Countries)

Intelligence Matters

Labor ConditionSInformants, Sources, MY

Legal Attaches ‹

and Contacts,

Legal Attaches - Accomplishments

Military and Naval Matters

• Intelligence Survey

National Group Coverage

Police Matters

Political Matters

Smuggling Activities

Social Conditions

65-63987

100-341561

64-41233

64-44362

113-7

64-35693

105-97459

64-29833

109-12

64-309

111-1

SECRET

Control - Reference Files

Revised Page 2

December 5,

1962

(S)

HH 55174 DooId:32989645 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Control Files Set Up with Standard

Eoreign Sub-File List

Soviet Diplomatic Activities (SODAC)

United Nations Delegation

United Nations Personnel

Visa Applicants

SECRET

64-211

'62-77787

62-77787

105-7

For more specialized files, see listing for each

country or see special category files which are listed later.

SECRET

Control - Reference Files

Page 2a

December 5, 1962

HW 55174

DooId:32989645

Page 29

---

## Page 30

? m

..

SECRET

COUNTRY

ADEN

AFGHANISTAN

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

395

BRITISH WEST INDIES

321

BULGARIA

BURMA

ALBANIA

ALGERIA

ANDORRA

ANGOLA

ANGUILLA

ARGENTINA

ARMENIA

273

278

281

380

418

201

308

AUSTRALIA

303

AUSTRIA

AZORES

BAHAMA ISLANDS (NASSAU)

BAHRAIN (OR BAHREIN) ISLANDS 410

• BARBADOS

BELGIUM

BERMUDA ISLANDS

BHUTAN

2.52

310

202

417

254

203

371

BOLIVIA

BORNEO

204

293

BOTSWANA

BRAZIL

BRITISH HONDURAS

404

205

206

SUBFILE

324

BURUNDI

BYELORUSSIAN

CAMBODIA

CAMEROUN

CANADA

CANARY ISLANDS

CAPE VERDE ISLANDS

CENTRAFRICAN REPUBLIC

CEYLON

• CHAD

CHILE

CHINA (COMMUNIST)

CHINA (NATIONALIST)

COLOMBIA

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

(KINSHASA)

REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO

(BRAZZAVILLE)

COSTA RICA

CUBA

CURACAO

261

264

407

329

364

369

243

291

292

390

266

388

207

246

274

208

336

391

209

210

298

Control-Reference Files

Page 3

Revised April 25, 1969

---

## Page 31

COUNTRY

CYPRUS

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

DAHOMEY

DANZIG

DENMARK

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ECUADOR

EGYPT

ENGLAND

EQUATORIAL GUINEA

ESTONIA

ETHIOPIA

ERITREA

FAR EAST

FIJI ISLANDS

EINLAND

FRANCE

FRENCH WEST INDIES

FRENCH WEST AFRICA

GABON

GAMBIA

GERMANY (WEST--GENERAL)

HH 55174

DooId: 32989645

Page 31

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SECRET

SUBF ILE

277

263

385

309

256

211

212

259

241

377

283'

313

356

352

402

255

231

341

343

392

401

232

SECREZ

COUNTRY

GERMANY (EAST)

GHANA (GOLD COAST)

GREECE

GREENLAND

GUAM

GUATEMALA

GUIANA (DUTCH)

GUIANA (FRENCH)

GUINEA

GUYANA (FORMERLY BRITISI

GUIANA)

HAITI

HONDURAS

HONG KONG

HUNGARY

ICELAND

INDIA

INDONESIA

IRAN

IRAQ

IRELAND

ISRAEL

ITALY

SUBFILE

397

366

253

360

333

&13

215

216

378

214

217

278

295

*9

314

257

331

251

282

311

345

233

Control-Referenc: Files

Page 4

Revised February 6, 190

---

## Page 32

*.

COUNTRY

IVORY COAST

JAMAICA

JAPAN

JAVA

JORDAN

• KENYA

KOREA

KOREA

KUWAIT

LAOS

LATVIA

LEBANON

LEEWARD ISLANDS

LESOTHO (FORMERLY

BASUTOLAND)

LIBERIA

LIBYA

LITHUANIA

LUXEMBOURG

MACAO

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SECRET

SUBFILE

386

219

234

289

332

325

265

381

367

365

294

287

220

412

297

300

262

280

362

COUNTRY

MACEDONIA

MADAGASCAR

MALAGASY REPUBLIC

MALAWI

MALAYSIA

MALAYA

MALDIVE ISLANDS

MALI

MALTA

MANCHURIA

MARTINIQUE

MAURITANIA

MAURITIUS ISLAND

MEXICO

MIDDLE EAST (ALSO NEAR

EAST)

MONACO

MONGOLIA

MOZAMBIQUE

MOROCCO

SECRET

SUBFILE

346

335

335

326

405

279

414

384

340

275

230

3.98

394

221

350

363

271

276

235

Control-Reference Files

Page 5

Revised April 25, 1969

MY 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page 32

---

## Page 33

COUNTRY

NEAR EAST (ALSO MIDDLE

EAST)

NEPAL

NETHERLANDS

NETHERLANDS EAST INDIES

NEW CALEDONIA

NEW HEBRIDES

NEW ZEALAND

NEW FOUNDLAND

NICARAGUA

NIGER

- NIGERIA

NORTH KOREA

NORWAY

NYASALAND; MALAWI

PAKISTAN

PALESTINE

PANAMA

PAPUA; TERRITORY OF PAPUA

PARAGUAY

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

350

353

258

247

269

400

320

338

222

387

323

265

260

326

342

248

223

PERU

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

POLAND

PORTUGAL

PORTUGUESE GUINEA

QUATAR

RUMANIA

RUSSIA

RYUKYU ISLANDS

RWANDA

SALVADOR

SAMOA

SAN MARINO

SARDINIA

SAUDI ARABIA

SCOTLAND

SENEGAL

SIERRA LEONE

SINGAPORE

SECRET

SUBFILE

225

239

250

236

403

415

244

240

368

408

226

358

299

318

245

285

393

355

316

224

SECRE

Control-Reference Files

Page 5a

Revised April 25, 1969

NH 5$171 DocId: 32989615 Bage 33

---

## Page 34

COUNTRY

SOLOMON ISLANDS (BRITISH)

SOMALI REPUBLIC

SOUTH AFRICA

SOUTH KOREA

SOUTH WEST AFRICA

• SOUTHEAST ASIA

SOUTHERN RHODESIA

SPAIN®

SUDAN

SUMATRA

SURINAM

SWAZILAND

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

SYRIA

TAHITI

TANZANIA

THAILAND

TOGO

STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SECRET

SUBFILE

COUNTRY

SUBFILE

409

349

317

265

382

413

327

237

339

284

215

416

267

268

286

375

373

288

372

TONGA ISLANDS

TRANSYLVANIA

TRANS JORDAN

TRIESTE

TRINIDAD

TRUCIAL STATES

TIBET

TUNISIA

TURKEY

UGANDA

UKRAINE

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

• UPPER VOLTA

URUGUAY

VATICAN CITY

VENEZUELA

VIET MINH-- DEMOCRATIC

REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

VIETNAM!

VIRGIN ISLANDS

374

312

332

337

229

406

344

296

238

322

329

376

390

227

359

228

370

330

315

SECRET.

Control-Reference Files

Page 6

Revised April 25, 1969

IW 55174 DocId: 32989615 Page 31

---

## Page 35

SECRET.

COUNTRY

VOLTAIC REPUBLIC

WALES

WEST IRIAN

YEMEN

YUGOSLAVIA

ZAMBIA

STATELESS

• STANDARD SUBFILE LIST

FOR FOREIGN COUNTRIES

SUBFILE

AREAS

390

328

357

334

272

351

361

ASIA

AFRICA

CENTRAL AMERICA

EUROPE

LATIN AMERICA

MIDDLE EAST

NORTH AMERICA

SOUTH AMERICA

WESTERN HERE RE

SUBFILE

301

302

354

304

307

350

305

306

307

Control-Reference Files

Page 6a

Revised April 25, 1969

HW 55174 DooId: 32989645

Page 35

---

## Page 36

*

In connection with the operation of various control files

there may be set up a complete or partial group of subfiles for each

field office. For ready reference, the standard subfile list is set

out below:

Office

Albany

Albuquerque

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit

El Paso

Honolulu

• Houston

Indianapolis

Jackson

Jacksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Subfile

Office

Memphis

Miami

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

New York

Norfolk

Oklahoma City

Omaha

Philadelphia

Phoenix

Pittsburgh

Portland

Richmond

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San. Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle•

Springfield

Tampa

Washington Field

SECRET

Subfile

28

29

30

43

61

31

32

33

34

56

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

52

64

53

:

Control-Reference Files

Page 6b Revised

January 24, 1966

IN 55174 DocId: 32989645 - Page

36

---

## Page 37

COUNTRY LISTINGS

SECRET

This list has been compiled from available sources and on

basis of data furnished by Supervisors.

It is only as complete as

each Supervisor desires to make it.

Many countries do not appear

simply because

no separate listings were found or warranted.

AFRICA

African Activities in the U. S.

ALBANIA

Albanian Activities in the U. S.

Albanian Funds

Albanian Intelligence Activities Abroad

Albanian Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Albanian Intelligence Service

Americans Residing in Albania

Movement of Albanian Nationals

Repatriation of Emigres to Albania

Soviet - Albania Relations

Visitors to Albania

ARGENTINA

Argentine Activities in the U. S.

Argentine Intelligence Service

Argentine Revolutionary Activities

ARMENIA

Armenian Activities in the U. S.

Armenian Publications in the U. S.

Armenian Revolutionary Federation

Armenian Intelligence Activities

Armenian Repatriation Activities

AUSTRIA

Austrian Activities in the U.S.

Austrian Funds

Movement of Austrian Nationals

Relationship Between Austria and Soviet Russia

AUSTRALIA

105-87964

100-211013

65-33033

100-353164

100-78816

100-353164

105-65671

100-354033

105-39234

65-58213

105-94414

65-46146

65÷57185

105-137559

100-196469

105-12157

61-1364

105-19483

100-341862

100-114854

65-32065

105-49050

65-56877

x* 3

(Australian Security Intelligence Organization (ASIO)

62-74549

SECNEY

Control-Reference Files

Page 7 - Revised

August 10, 1967

HH 55174 DocId:32989645. Page 37

---

## Page 38

SECRET,

BRAZIL

Brazilian

National Security Council

Brazilian Socialist Party

Communist Party of Brazil (CPB--Chinese Faction)

BULGARIA

Americans Residing in Bulgaria

Bulgarian Activities in the United States

Bulgarian Defectors

Bulgarian Diplomatic Activities in the

U. S.

Bulgarian Embassy - Italy

Bulgarian Embassy - Paris

Bulgarian Funds

Bulgarian Intelligence Activities in the U.S.

Bulgarian Intelligence Service

Bulgarian Legation

Bulgarian National Council

Bulgarian

• National Committee

Bulgarian National Front of America, Inc.

Bulgarian Repatriation

Bulgarian Trade Unions

Bulgarian Visitors to Spain

Movement of Bulgarian Nationals

Relationships Between Bulgaria and the U. S.

Visitors to Bulgaria

CANADA

Relations with RCMP * 3

Security of Canadian

and Mexican Borders

Security of Canadian Border

CHINA

Americans in Communist China

China Daily News

Chinese

Aliens Entering the U. S. (Formerly 105-76690

re aliens and 105-86568 re students)

Chinese Communist Activities (Use standard sub-file list

for field offices and foreign countries)

Chinese Communist Activities in the United Nations

Chinese Communist Activities in Racial Matters

Chinese Communist Contacts with Scientists in U.S.

Chinese Communist Couriers

Chinese Communist Intelligence

Biographic Data Album

Chinese Communist Intelligence Operations

in U. S

Chinese Communist Intelligence Operations

in Foreign

Countries

64-35551

109-498

105-143939

100-360958

100-66

100-357681-261

100-347211

62-81474

105-92334

65-34794

100-356259

62-82654

65-38869

105-94207

100-361364

105-82043

105-38885

105-48241

105-73018

100-354032

65-38868

105-94413

62-3571> 16)

62-60366

100-426407

100-362994

100-196148

105-135923

100-40

105-41561

105-158698

105-168542

105-144471

105-147569

65-53286

65-65807

SECRET.

Control-Reference Files

Page 8

Revised April 25, 1969

HH 55174 DocId:32989645 Page 38

---

## Page 39

JEK Act 6 (11(B)

SECRET

CHINA (Continued)

Chinese Entering

the U. S. Claiming U. S. Citizenship

Chinese Embassy, Washington, D. C.

Chinese Employees in United Nations Secretariat (CHISEC)

Chinese Funds

Chinese Nationalist Party (KUOMINTANG)

Chinese Nationalist Intelligence Activities in U.S.

Chinese Seamen Deserters

Chinese Security Investigations (FBI Schools and Training)

Chinese Universities and Graduate Schools

Intelligence Operations

Communist Infiltration of Chinese Nationalist Diplomatic

and Official Establishments in the U.

S.

Communist Infiltration of Chinese Students in the U. S.

counterintelligence Operations Against Chinese Communist *

Intelligence Operations in the U.S.

_ (CHICOIN)

Foreign Assets Control

New China News Agency

Sino-Soviet Relations (Political)

Unauthorized Travel by U. S. Citizens to Communist China

U. S. Residents Traveling to Hong Kong

Visitors to Communist China and Contacts by U. S. Residents

with Chinese Communist Diplomatic Establishments (CABBAGE)

COSTA RICA

Costa Rican Revolutionary Activities

CUBA

American Communists' Participation in. Cuban Activities

Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

Communist Penetration Of Cuban Diplomatic Establishments

Cuban Acts of Violence Against U. S. Citizens

Cuban Activities in Puerto Rico

Cuban Activities in the United States

Cuban Censorship

Cuban Consulate, Tampica, Mexico

Cuban Embassy, Belgium

Cuban Embassy, Canada

Cuban Embassy,

France

Cuban Embassy, Italy

Cuban Embassy, Mexico

•Cuban Embassy, Philippines

Cuban Embassy, Spain

105-12752

62-55263

105-142165

105-159163

100-81019

105-48030

105-129735

1-6830

105-137333

105-60238

105-52794

105-12536

105-13561

105-13771

100-369921

65-52604

105-156647

105-144107

105-144424

109-652

105-88457

109-584

105-89084

64-47305

64-47532

105-83195

64-23200

105-152962

65-67286

105-35674

65-68514

62-108562

105-93893

105-104333

65-55759

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 9

Revised April 25, 1969

WW 55171 DocId: 32989645

Page 39

---

## Page 40

CUBA (Continued)

Cuban Emergency Plans

Cuban Funds

Cuban Government in Exile

Cuban Government's Supression of Religion

Cuban Intelligence Activities in the United states

Cuban Matters - Counterintelligence ProgramX

Cuban Mission to the United Nations

Cuban Prisoner Exchange

Cuban Propaganda Activities in the United States

Cuban Rebel Activities in Cuba

Cuban Refugee Problem in the United States

Cuban Subversion Toward Latin America

•Cuba's Relations with Soviet-bloc Countries

Organization of Solidarity of the Peoples of Africa, Asia,

and Latin America (OSPAALA)

Radio Havana (Maria Montero Triana)

Tri-Continental Conference

SECRET

105-97549

62-105411

105-95357

64-47544

105-80787

105-99938>

62-77787-210

105-99200

64-45716

105-95461

105-93163

109-653

64-47156

105-15543

100-445759

105-146802

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 9a

Revised April 25, 1969

WH 55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 40

---

## Page 41

CUBA (Continued)

Fair Play for Cuba Committee

Fidel Castro

Individuals Offering Services in Cuban Crisis

July 26 Movement

Possible Penetration ef Cuban Intelligence Service

Through Radio Havana

Prensa Latina

Travel Controls - Cuba

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

American Embassy, Prague

Americans Residing in Czechoslovakia

CEDOK (Official Czech Travel Agency)

Czech Activities in the U. S.

Crech

Diplomatic

Activities in New York

Czech Diplomatic Activities in Mexico

Czech Diplomatic Activities in Washington, D. C.

Czech Diplomatic Couriers

Czechoslovakian Embassy, Italy

Czechoslovakian Embassy, Paris

Czech Funas

Czech Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Legation, Ottawa,

Canada

Czech Refugee Activities

Czech security Service

Exiles' Movement for Return to the Homeland (HEPND)

Expose

Information and Cultural Activities of Czech

Embassy, Washington, D. C.

Movement

of Crech Nationais

Relationship Between Czechoslovakia and the

United States

United Nations Personnel • Crechoslovakia

Visitors

to Crechoslovakia

SECRET

97-4196

109-539

105-114340

• 109-551

105-15167)

105-80145

105-7-210

62-81260

105-65672

105-60680

61-10730

105-11768

100-348756

105-14537

105-68715

65-65910

65-58268

65-31621

65-38136

100-350422

105-10686

100-340678

105-36620

65-60545

105-74665

100-354029

65-42908

62-77787-263

105-93942

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 10

Revised October 14, 1966

HH 55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 41

---

## Page 42

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Connunist InTliration of Dominican Exile Groups

Dominican Acilvitias in the u. S.

Doninican Funds

Dominican Intelligence Activities

Dominican Intelligence Agents in the U. S.

Doninican Lobbying Activities in the U. S.

Dominican Revolutionary Activities

Enbassy of the Dominican Republic, Hashington, D. C.

EGYPT

&gyptian Consulate, New York City

Bgyptian Diplomntic Activities in the U. S.

Egyptian Embassy, Washington, D. C.

Egyptian Intelligence Service

Rapprochement Between Russia and the Arab Nations

ESTONIA

Lovement of Estonian Nationals

Organizations of Estonian-Americans in the U. S.

Repatriation of imigres to istonia

FAR BAST

Far East Situation

FINLAND

Finnisn

Activities in the U. S.

Finnish

Embassy, Washington,

Finnish Intelligence Activities in the U.s.

Hovenent of tinnisn NatIOnaLs

FRANCE

Embassy of France, Hashington, D. C.

French Consulate, New York City

Relations viin service de vocumentation Exierieure-et

de Contre-ispionage- (SDECE)

French Activities - General

French Intelligence Activities

GERMARY

Abwehr

Berlin Situation

East German Intelligence Service

East German Activities in Cuba

East German Propaganda

SECRET

105-91529

100-237194

105-105060

105-93789

105-83709

105-95904

105-77731

65-47134

62-101947

105-52622

65-58070

65-58530

105-21904

100-354578

105-11188

105-42034

62-73361

65-1440

65-40289

65-56811

100-354048

65-30150

65-41022

100-189256

65-29441

105-154506

65-37193

105-77297

65-61827

105-84904

105-84034

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page Il - Revised

August 10, 1967

so 551714000747998965-Fate42-.

---

## Page 43

GERMANY (Continued)

German Consulate - Boston

German Consulate - Chicago

German Consulate - Detroit

German Consulate - New Orleans

German Consulate - New York City

German Consulate - San Francisco

German Embassy - Washington, D. C.

German Intelligence Activities in the U. s.:

German Scientists

Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands (KPD)

Ministerium fuer Staatssicherheit (MES)

(Ministry for State Security,

East Germany)

Movement of East German Nationals

Socialist Unity Party (SED) (Sozialistische

Einheitspartel Deutschlands) (East German

Communist Party)

Movement of German Nationals

GHANA

Ghana Activities in the United States

GREAT BRITAIN

Relations with MI-6

Relations

*3

with MI-5 and MI-6

XX3

BrItish Embassy, Washington, D. C. •

GREECE

Gardenia

Greek Activities in the United

States

International Brigade for Greece

GUATEMALA

Guatemalan Revolutionary Activities

GUINEA

Guinea Activities in the United States

GUYANA

Peoples Progressive Party

Progressive Youth Organization

HAITI

Haitian Revolutionary Activities

SECRET

65-26130

65-23926

65-26110

65-14760

65-26112

65-26109

105-24201

65-9180

105-8090

64-200-232

65-61827

105-88769

100-351136

105-125970

105-78601

82-602722

65-5081

(S)

62-41850

105-42448)

61-9587

100-35233

64-43798

105-78602

64-200-214

105-143320

105-95677

SEGRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 12

Revised October 14, 1966

MY 55174 DocId:32989645 Page 13

---

## Page 44

SECRET

HONG KONG

Investigations at Hong Kong

62-99680 and

65-53286-124

• HUNGARY

Americans Residing in Hungary

Dart

Hungarian

Activities in the U.S. (Sub for each

field office)

Hungarian Diplomatic Activities in the United States

Hungarian Embassy - Ottawa, Canada

Hungarian Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Hungarian Emergency Refugee Program

(Control)

Hungarian Emergency Refugee Program (Name Checks)

Hungarian

Funds

Hungarian

Intelligence Activities in

the Unitad

States

Hungarian

Intelligence Abroad

• •

Hungarian

Intelligence

Service

Hungarian Secret Police

• Movement of Hungarian Nationals

Repatriation of Emigres to Hungary

Visitors to Hungary

INDIA

Consulate

General of India

105-65673

05-62394

100-89

105-23044

105-69553

65-39010

105-54509

105-54508

65-32424

100-354194

65-55041

65-57965

105-9847

100-354030

105-38887

105-93959

105-54374

SECRET

i

- -

• .

Control-Reference Files

Page 13

Revised

July 19, 1968

NH 55174 DocId: 32989645

Page 11

---

## Page 45

SECRET

IRAN

Consulate General of Iran, New York City

Embassy of Iran

Iranian Diplonatic Activities in the U. S.

IRAQ

Consulate of Iraq, New York City

Embassy of Iraq

Iraq Diplomatic Activities in the U.S.

IRELAND

Coverage of Irish Activities

Irish Republican Army

ISRAEL

IntelTigence Coverage of Israell Activities - NYC *3

IsraelI Consulate - Chicago

Israeli Consulate - Los Angeles

Israeli Consulate - New York City

Israeli Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Israeli Intelligence Funds

Israeli intelligence Service # 3

ITALY

Italian Embassy

Italian Fascist Activities in the U. S.

JAPAN

Sokagakkha1

JORDAN

Embassy of Jordan

Jordanian Consulate, New York City

KOREA

Embassy of Korea

Korean Activities in the U. S. (Subs for each field office)

North Korean Espionage Activities

North Korean

Intelligence Activities

LATIN AMERICA

Caribbean Political Activitles

Central America - Assessment of Internal Security

Cuban Subversion Toward Latin America

Continental Latin-Anerican Students Organization

Latin-American Confederation of Christian Trade

Unions (CLASC)

62-93147

62-73579.

100-381876

62-96543

65-55156

105-32502

i

105-75895

61-7606

105-72272>

105-18322

105-13545

65-58190

105-10828

105-73606

65-58700>

65-30892

105-18021

64-41658

65-61885

105-55014

65-61877

100-25

65-65631

105-143909

109-581

64-48874

109-653

105-88932

109-666

Control-Reference Files

Page 14

Revised April 25, 1969

HN 55174 DocId: 329896-45

Page 45.

---

## Page 46

SECRET

LATIN AMERICA (Continued)

Latin-American Organization of Solidarity. (LASO)

OrganiZatIOn Oi AucriCan States

Pan American Union

Potential Political Ranifications in Latin America as

a Result of Cuban Revolution

LATVIA

Movement of Latvian Nationals

Repatriation of Emigres to Latvia

LITHUANIA

Repatriation of Emigres to Lithuania

HACEDONIA

Macedonian Activities in the United States

Macedonian Peoples League

Macedonian Political Organization

LEXICO

American Communist

Group in Mexico

Border Coverage X

Circle of Mexican

Studies

Mexican Revoiutionary Activities

Party of Mexican laborers and Farm Horkers

Popular Socialist Party (PPS) of Mexico

People's Revolutionary Army of Mexico

MIDDLE EAST

Arab Intelligence Activities in the United States

Middle East Situation

Translation Hatter - Arabic

MONGOLIA

HongoTian People's Repuölic (General)

National Intelligence Survey - Mongolia

Political Matters - Mongolia

United Nations Personnel - Mongolia

Visa Applicants - Mongolia

Visitors to Mongolia

NICARAGUA

Embassy of Nicaragua

Nicaraguan Revolutionary Activities

PARAGUAY

Paraguayan Exile Activities in the United States

SECRET

105-149973

64-32630

62-20344

109-576

100-354598

105-39949

105-41116

65-2809

100-160007

100-185806

100-422118

100-356015

105-40545

105-75820

100-370053

100-359378

105-132381

105-53464

105-53922

62-1077-247

105-104751

64-35693-271

109-12-271

62-77787-271

105-7-271

105-133625

100-143895

109-845

105-107249

Control-Reference

Files

Page 15 - Revised

August 10, 1967

HW 55174 DocId: 32989615. Page 46

---

## Page 47

POLAND

Americans Residing in Poland

Movement of Polish Nationals

Office of Economic Minister, Polish Enbassy,

Hashington, D. C.

Polish Activities in Brazil

Folish Activities

in the U. S. (Miscellaneous)

"olish Commercial Counselor, New York

Polish Commercial Office, Chicago, Illinois

Polish Consulate: Chicaro

Polish Diplomatic Activities (General)

Polish Diplomatic Couriers

Polish Embassy, Canada

Polish Embassy, Mexico

Polish Embassy, Hashington, D. C.

Polish Funds

Polish Intelligence Activities Abroad

Polish Intelligence Activities in the

Polish Military Intelligence (Z-II)

U.S.

Polish Security Service (UB)

Polish Trade Mission, New York

Relationship Between U. S. and Poland

Repatriation of Emigres to Poland

Visitors to Poland

Who's Who in Poland

PORTUGAL

Anti-Salazar Activities

ROMANIA

American Embassy: Bucharest, Romania

Americans Residing in Romania

Foreign Funds Outside the United States

Free Romanian Movement

Funds Transmitted to Residents of Romania

Jakober Ransom Channel

Monograph (Romania)

Movement of Romanian Nationals

Relationship Between United States and Romania

Repatriation of Emigres to Romania

Romanian Activities in the U.S.

Romanian-American Activities in the U. s.

Romanian Diplomatic Activities

Romanian Embassy - Paris, France

Romanian Embassy - Tokyo, Japan

Romanian Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Romanian Funds

Romanian Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

SECRET

SECRET

105-65675

100-354028

105-62792

105-104003

65-40955

105-79464

105-90343

65-55273

105-12340

105-68808

65-57264

62-77545

62-56597

65-32839

65-38135

100-350264

65-58426

100-344405

105-98402

65-56253

105-39233

105-64753

105-9869

105-95512

62-81259

105-44733

112-8

102-119

100-363308

105-108786>

62-80750-1070

100-354031

65-38867

105-38985

100-46

105-15520

105-25263

105-105768

105-118698

65-38144

100-359722

105-23993

Control-Reference Files

Page 15a

Revised July 19, 1968

HW 55174 DooId:32989645 Page 17

---

## Page 48

SECRET

ROMANIA (Continued)

Romanian Intelligence Service

Romanian Iron Guard

Romanian Legation

Romanian Liberation Movement

Romanian Military Intelligence

Romanian Orthodox Church

Romanul American

United States Citizens Repatriated from Romania

Visitors to Romania

RUSSIA

•Aliens in United States Who Hold Valid Soviet

Passports (Nondiplomatic)

American Embassy, Moscow

Americans Residing in the USSR

Amtorg

• Bank for Foreign Trade of the USSR

Censorship - Russian

Funds Transmitted to Residents of Russia.

Importation and Sale of Soviet Publications

Monitoring of Soviet-Controlled Establishments in

the United States

Movement of Soviet Nationals (Mosnat)

Office of Soviet Military Attache

Office of Soviet Naval Attache

Office or soviet Air Attache.

Pravda

Radio and Technical Equipment Purchased by the Soviets

Red Navy; Soviet Naval Intelligence

Relationship Between the

. United States and Russia

Repatriation and Redefection to USSR

SECREL

100-350268

105-12450

65-57411

105-10412

105-102535

105-15386

100-264688

105-44733

105-94412

62-102232

62-75450

105-37111

61-5381

100-346963

100-344043

100-353496

100-365088

105-25490

100-308748

100-357510

105-12488

100-319451

100-23694

105-36365

100-346132

65-37939

105-61716

Control-Reference Files

'Page 16

Revised October 14, 1966

HH 55174

DocId: 32989645

Page 48

---

## Page 49

SECRET

JEK Act 6 (1)(B)

RUSSIA (Continued)

ROVS (White Russian Intelligence Organization)

Russian Funds

Russian immigrants to the U. S.

Soviet attempts to Convert Looted German Bonds (SOVLOOT)

Soviet Attempts to Defect American

• Personnel

Soviet Bioc Capital Invested in the U. S.

Soviet Commercial Activities

Soviet Defector Operations

Soviet Derelictions

• Soviet Diplomatic Activities (SODAC)

Soviet Diplomatic Couriers

Soviet Earth Satellites

Soviet Embassy Lookouts

Soviet

Foreign Policy

SOViET

Identity Documents

Soviet

Intelligence Activities in Latin America

Soviet

Intelligence

Album

Soviet

Intelligence

Couriers • Airlines • Seamen

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(General)

Soviet

Intelligence

Serwice

(Red Army)

Soviet

Intelligence

Service

(KGB)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Smersch)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Recruitment)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Sabotage)

SOVIET

Intelligence vervice

Ficiniusi

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Security Precautions)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

{Cover Stories)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Travel and Entry)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Method of Communication)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Method of Payment)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Information Sought)

Soviet

Intelligence Service

(Modus Operandi)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Information Obtained)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Diplomatic Assistance)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Communist Party)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Technical Services)

Soviet Intelligence Service (Unsolved

Situations)

Soviet Looting of German Bonds

Soviet Officials Abroad (CIA Check List)

Soviet Personnel Intelligence Activity (SPIA)

Soviet Officials Album

Soviet Propaganda Activities

Soviet Travel Control

Soviet War Plans

100-355888

65-28939

62-102232

105-19581

105-23578

6562958

105-49099

65-63820

65-62958

100-365823

65-30092

61-771

62-104279

105-30046

100-342042

100-348008

100-332412

100-342424

65-63360

65-57884

65-56847

61-3499

100351413

65-57774

65-67761

S5 57009

65-57773

65-57969

65-57971

65-57768

65-57 970

65-057967

65-57772

65-59508

65-57960

65-57972

65-69346

65-57771

105-23578

105-24309

100-354839

100-353113

61-6341

65-61940

100-343044

Control-Reference Files

Page 17 Revised

April 19, 1965

HH 55174 DocId:32989645 Bage 49

---

## Page 50

SECRET

RUSSIA (Continued)

Surmer Resort Facilities of Soviet Personnel

Suaary or soviet Bapionage Activities in U. s.

Tass News Agency

U. S. Defectees to USSR

USSR Nationals Employed at UN Secretariat

Who's Who in Soviet Union

SAUDI ARABIA

Embassy o1 Saudi Arabia

SPAIN

Repatriation of Spanish Prisoners of War from Russia

Spanish Revolutionary Activities

SUDAN

Sudanese Activities in the ü..s.

SYRIA

Embassy of Syria

Syrian Intelligence Service

TUNISIA

Embassy of Tunisia

TURKEY

Embassy

of Turkey

Türkenh

1nt012980a00 Sorries

Turkish Diplomatic Activities in the U. S.

Turkish Consulate, New York City

UKRAINE

Movement of Ukrainian Nationals

Organization for Rebirth of the Ukraine

UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC

Embassy of the United Arab Republic, Washington, D. C.

United Arab Republic Consulate,

New York City

United Arab Republic Diplomatic

Activities in the U. S.

VENEZUELA

Armed Forces of National Liberation (FALN)

Communist Infiltration or Influence Among Venezuelan

Exiles in the U. S.

Movement of the Revolutionary Left (MIR)

National Liberation Front

Venezuelan Revolutionary Activities in the U. S.

105-14175

100-345686

100-183300

105-82754

105-22865

100-304397

65-56926

65-62599

109-587

105-72093

65-59148

65-58397

65-64170

65-59169

65-57080

105-74769

105-73522

105-58701

102-8

105-68165

105-68352

105-52622

105-135158

105-107996

105-143104

105-157726

105-101555

SECRET

Control-Reference

• Files

Page 18 - Revised

August 10, 1967

WW 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page 50

---

## Page 51

SECRET.

YEMEN

Legation of Yenen

YUGOSLAVIA

Demonstrations Against Yugoslav Establishments

Diplomatic Communications- Yugoslavia

Foreign Political Matters - Yugoslavia

Key Personalities - Yugoslavia

Miscellaneous Yugoslav Activities in the U.S.

Movement of Yugoslav Nationals

Office oi Yugoslav Commercial Attache

Office of Yugoslav Military Attache

Savez Komunista Jugoslavijo (League of Communists of

Yugoslavia)

U.S. - Yugoslav Relations

lugoslav Activitles in the b.s.

lugoslav Consulate - New York

Yugoslav Consulate - Chicago

Yugoslav Consulate - Pittsburgh

Yugoslav Consulate - San Francisco

Yugoslav Diplomatic Activities

Yugoslav Embassy - Washington, D. C.

Yugosiav Information Center

Yugoslav Intelligence Activities in the U.

S.

Yugoslav Intelligence Service

Yugoslav - USSR Relations

Yupia

Repatriation of Emigres to Yugoslavia

105-58065

105-119149

55357658

109-12-272

64-35693-274

105-14307

100-354170

100-359904

105-11051

105-37421

109-237

100-32620

65-57367

65-58528

105-13764

65-58966

100-345359

65-40979

97-2977

100-346268

105-8611

65-57240

705-37877

105-39242

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 19 - Revised

August 10, 1967

HH 55174 DocId:32989645

Page 51

---

## Page 52

SECRET

INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION FILES

Acquisition of Unclassified Intelligence Data by Soviet

Bloc Representatives in the U. S.

[acquisition of latent Fingereints of Soviet BloC $2

officials in the US (Lift)

American Citizens Residing Abroad

American Seamen Suspected of Contacting Soviet Agents

Americans Traveling in Iron Curtain Countries

Arab Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Baghdad Pact (Central

Treaty Organization)

Biological Warfare

Briefs on Soviet Bloc Espionage

Burn Memoranda (Intelligence Fabricators)

Caribbean Political Activities

Caribbean Revoluiionary Activities

Central Intelligence Agency Matters* 4

Central Intelligence Bulletin

8x4

Clandestine Radio Communications

Classification of Information

Commission on Government Security

Communications security

Contacts with Soviet, Satellite or Yugoslav Officials

and/or Establishments by Americans While Abroad

Current Espionage Digest

Current Forpion Relations

Defections of Foreign Officials in the U.

Development of Selected Contacis (DESECO) * 2

Development of Sources in Foreign Nationality Groups

Double Agents

Double Agents - Biological Warfare

Double Agents - Income Tax

Double Meaning File > 2

East-West Exchanges

Entrance into the U. S. of Individuals who are a Threat

to Internal Security of the U. S.

Foreign Influence in Black Nationalist Movement

Foreign Language Training

Flying Saucers

Full Utilization of Confidential Informants and Sources

of Information

Guided Missile Research

Immigrants and Repatriates from Soviet Bloc Countries

Immigration and Nationality Act

Immunity Bill

Importation and Sale of Soviet and Satellite Publications

105-27754

65-6581

64-31479

65-57868

100-351585

105-53464

105-42549

100-93216

65-65438

105-19395

109-581

109-581

62-80750>

65-63735

65-58776

66-7225

62-101916

105-128045

105-81776

65-64939

109-631

100-357681

105-71688>

105-30171

65-49443

65-58698

134-7326

80-7420

105-42300

105-9746

157-8141

66-18979

62-83894

66-18772

62-87975

105-78187

100-390629

62-51542

100-365088

SECRET

Control-Reference Files

Page 20

Revised April 25, 1969

HH 55174 DooId:32989645 Page 52

---

## Page 53

SECRET

INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION FILES (Continued)

Infiltration of the United Nations by Subversive American

• Citizens

Infiltration of the United Nations and other Public

International Organizations by Subversive Resident Aliens

INS

Waiver Control File

Intelligence Coverage of Diplomatic Representatives of

Friendly Foreign Nations

Intelligence Techninos

International Organizations, Dangerous Aliens of Nations

Outside the Soviet Bloc

Investigative Jurisdiction - Bureau

Legislation - Security

Loopholes in the Coverage of Internal Security

Mail Drops

ilovenent of Miscallaneous Nationals

Movement of Satellite Nationals

National Security Council

National Intelligence Estimates

NATO Special Committee

Prevention of Departure of Aliens with Scientific or

Technical Training

Project Permanent Xx 4

Psychological Warfare

Public Appearance of Soviet Officials

Refugee Relief Program

Reenneshilitina nf

tha DOT in the Internal Iscurity Dicia

Satellite Cultivation of Foreign Officials of Non-Soviet

bloc Countries

Satellite Intelligence Album

SATPIA (Satellite Personnel Intelligence Activities)

Searches of Diplomatic Shioments $X2

SEATO

Security Informants (Subs for each field office)

Security Schools

Soviet and Satellite Passports

Soviet Bloc Intelligence Activities in the U. S.

Soviet Cultivation of Foreign Officials of Non-Soviet-

Bloc Countries

Soviet Illegal Espionage Activities

Soviet Intelligence Services (Disinformation and

Deception)

Soviet-Satellite Efforts to Penetrate the U. S.

Intelligence Community

Soviet Use of Records of Birth

Special Installations in U.S. Embassies Abroad *2

Speech Privacy

Equipment

"Sputniks"

105-13893

105-26004

100-390629

65-63113

105-102952

105-14879

66-3012

66-18949

100-359391

65-46006

64-5003

100-351139

62-85205

62-93351

62-98719

105-19164

62-96321

65-48086

105-166516

62-100044

C2-500TE

105-128907

65-63778

65-63483

105-18233

62-102032

66-2542-3

1-43

65-43015

65-63478

105-128906

65-63234

65-68951

105-132051

105-69253

105-19581>

62-101410

62-104279

SECRET

• Control-Reference Files

Page 20a - Revised

August 10,

1967

HH 55174 DocId:32989645 Page 53

---

## Page 54

.....

SECRET

INTELLIGANCE AND INFORMATION FILES (Continued)

Studies in intelligence

Submarine áctivities

Supervision - Internal Security (Nationalistic Tendency

Matters)

Supervision - Espionage

Supervision - Neutrality Matters

Supervision - Registration Act

Third Country Operations

Tracing American Money Used in Espionage Operations

United Nations Liaison Matters

United States Evaluation Board & Y

Visitors to Iron Curtain Countries

65-66944

65-39557

105-00

65-00

2-00

97-00

65-66691

65-65405

105-14228

62-96781

100-351585

ATOMIC ENERGY MATTERS

Activities in the Atomic Energy Field in Foreign Countries

Atomic Energy Act - General

Atomic Energy Act (Violations, Supervision, etc.)

Atomic Energy Commission

Atomic Energy Facilities

Cinrad

Control of Atomic Energy

Countermeasures Renuired to Notect and Mofond. Noninet tha

Clandestine Introduction of Atomic Weapons into U. S.

Foreign

Scientists Training Program for Peaceful Use of

Atonic Energy

- Joint Committee on Atomic Energy

Radiation Fall-Out

Security Risk Program

Tripartite Conference on Security of Atomic Energy Infor-

mation Between Canada, U. S. and Great Britain

United Nations Committee

Control of Atomic Energy

110-141

66-00-116

66-00-117

62-82221

117-833

100-190625

100-345079

• 117-268

117-1852

62-83626

62-104057

117-1654

105-15419

100-345471

SECRET

----

Control-Reference Files

Page 21 - Revised

August 10, 1967

HH 55174

DocId: 32989645 Page 54

---

## Page 55

COMMUNIST FILES

SECRET

(Restricted to Listing of those possibly related to work of

Section)

Afro-Asian Peoples_Solidarity Council

105-72281

Alleged Communist Infiltration of the

FBI

100-97391

American Association of Scientific Workers

Arab Communists in the United States

100-203763

105-84464

Cominform

100-353813

Comrao

100-203581

Communist Infiltration of roreign Language Groups

100-47852:

Communist International (All Union Party of Soviet Union)

61-16

Communist farty seamen Couriers

• 100-358614

Interacional Communist Urganizations

105-87393

Interestional Association of Damocratic Lawyers

100-348689

International Federation of Resistance Fighters

100-397080

International Union of Students

100-346144

-Women's International Democratic Federation

100-343636

World Federation of Democratic Youth

100-185087

World Federation of Scientific Workers

100-350410

World Federation of Trade-Unions

100-260007

World

• Peace Council

100-361031

SECRET

Control - Réference Files

Revised Page 22

April 26, 1962

NW 55174 DocId: 32989645 Page. 55

---

