# docid-32292546

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10322-

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-1161X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/26/1966

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, TRA, HEALTH, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292546

Page 1

430

---

## Page 2

Released

DATE:

1-772

FBI WASH DO UN

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot of 1992 744 05C

Hotel.

FBI CHICAGO

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IRVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 G 1966

RELENT

pots

PE

HRF

610 PM CDST

DEFERRED 8-26-66

IO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO (92-375)

017(36) to C6

Coxs/Ber

10/13/46

Mr. Tolson

Mr. De Loach

Mr. Mor

Mr Wick

Mr Casper.

MT.

Callahan!

Mr.

conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale Af

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy.

GUS

ALEX, AKAO ARO 00 CHICAGO.

/

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C DASH TE ADVISED AUG TWENTY SIX HE

CE

LEARNED THAT WHILE ALEX WAS IN EUROPE HE SPENT FIVE WEEKS TOURING GREER

ITALY AND ENGLAND AND WHILE THERE RECEIVED "VIP TREATMENT AT PLAYBOY

CLUB IN LONDON®

INFORMÄNT ADVISED ALEX DISCONTINUED HIS MEMBERSHIP IN POSTL'S

HEALTH CLUB, CHICAGO FEELING HIS PRESENCE THERE HAD BECOME TOO WELL

A KNOWN TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. HE HAS NOW JOINED HEALTH CLUB IN

OUTER DRIVE EAST APARTMENT BUILDING AT FOUR HUNDRED E. RANDOLPH

217

CHICAGO LAKEFRONT. THIS IS BUILDING WHERE FRANK FERRARO, DECEASED,

LIVED AND WHERE JOHN D'ARCO AND DONALD PARRILLO, FIRSI WARD DEMOCRATIC

OFFICIALS, NOW RESIDE.

INFORMANT, CONFIRMING INFO RECENTLY RECEIVED FROM CG SEVEN ZERO ONE

SIX-PC, ADVISED THAT ALEX IS IN ILL HEALTH AT PRESENT CAUSED BY

"HEAT" ENGENDERED BY RECENT PUBLICITY RE HIS INVOLVEMENT IN BRITISH

GAMBLING CASINOS. ON AUG TWENTY FIVE LAST CE SIX ONE ONE IWO-PE,

END

PAGE ONE

9434-1

53

92-

182-1161X

AUG 30 1966

6

QSE

2/40

1966

DocId: 32292546 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: D1-14-2017

THAT.

đn 32

PAGE TWO

Scari

EET

PERHAPS ALEX'S CLOSEST ASSOCIATE, ADVISED ALEX WAS NOT THEN "ON THE STRE

IMPLYING ALEX NOT FEELING WELL, BUT DECLINED TO ELABORATE. CG SIX SIXE

FOUR-C RECENTLY OBSERVED RALPH PIERCE AND LES KRUSE TOGETHER ON THREE

OCCASIONS WHEN THEY WOULD ORDINARILY BE CONFERRING WITH ALEX. HOWEVER,

ON EACH OCCASION ALEX WAS ABSENT.

END

WA

CORRECIIONS NEEDED PAGE TWO-LAST TO WORDSCOF LINE ONE AND TWO

CHICAGO PLEASE-SHORTEN YOUR LINES WHEN YOU TYPE THESE TUP

THEY ARE PILING UP BADLY AT THE END-OF THE LINES

THANK YOU"

GAGAGA

"GO AKEAD WITH CORRECTIONS LINE ONE STREET AND LINE? SHD BE ONE

LAST TWO WDS OF EINE ONE SEDBE THE STREET.

"LAST TWO WDS OF LINE TWO-SHBE SIX ONE

WA... DLH . N AND IKS

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32292546

Page 3

---

