# docid-32306105

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote)."

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10289-10235

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2224

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/28/1967

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MARI, FRANKIE T., PURCHASE WEAPONS, WARFARE,

BONNANNO FACTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306105

Page 1

36

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WA-=-08---

FBI NEW YORK

VIA TELETYPE

6-31 PM URGENT 12-28-67 JVD

TO DIRECTOR

FROM NEW YORK (92-2300)

DEC 28 1967

ENCIPHERED

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. DoTnach

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan.

Mr.

Conrád

Mr.

Mr. Gal

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivar

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trot

Tele. Room.

Miss

Holmes

Miss

Gandy.

OLA COSA NOSTRA, AR-CONSPIRACY.

ONUELVE TWENTYEIGHT, INSIANT, MY fOUR THREE THREE

SIX - C - TE ADVISED THAT FRANKIE "T MARI IS AVIKLY

6

ATTEMPIING TO PURCHASE AUTOMATIC WEAPONS IN VIEW OF

THE IMMINENT POTENTIAL OPEN WARFARE WITH BONNANNO FACIION.

NY FIVE EIGHT THREE SEVEN-C-TE ADVISED ON TWELVE

TWENTYEIGHT INSTANT THAT HANK PERRONE TODAY ASKED HIM

HE COULD GET HIM TWO MACHINE GUNS.

INFORMANT STATED HE WAS UNABLE TO DO SO, BUT COULD

OBTAIN CARBINES AT ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS EACH. PERRONE,

ACCORDING TO NY FIVE EIGHT THREE SEVEN-C-TE, STATED

HE WILL CHECK AND RECONTACT INFORMANT IN REGARD TO THE

R

OBTAINING OF CARBINES.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT PERRONE HAS MAINTAINED HIS

LOYALITY TO THE JOE BONANNO SPLINTER GROUP OF THAT FORMER

"FAMILY" WHILE FRANKIE "T MAS BEEN IDENTIFIED HOLDING

A HIGH POSITION IN THE SCIACCA FACIA

OF THE FORMER

60544-2224

BONANNO "FAMILY" APPROVED BY THE "COMMISSION."

3 JAN 8

1968

END

P

84 JANI Z 18681

FJB

35%

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32306105 Page 2

---

