# docid-32315467

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10185

RECORD SERIES:

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-905

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FITZPATRICK

TO:

DE

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/08/1963

7

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

12/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32315467

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

SAC, DETROIT (137-3242)

: SA ROBERT N. FITZPATRICK / / CI

Date:

7/8/63

//: SI

SUBJECT:

DE 932-PC

Dates of Contact

July 1, 1963

Titles and File Nos. on which contacted

WILLIAM BUFALINO, aka, AR

PETER LICAVOLI, aka,

AR

ANTHONY. "TONY"

GIACALONE, aka,

JOHN "PAPA JOHN PRIZIOLA, aka

ANGELO MELI, aka, AR

ANTHONY "'TONY" CORRADO, aka, AR

JOSEPH "WHIP" TRIGLIA, aka, AR

JAMES "BIFFO" MACCAGNONE, aka

LOUIS LA HOOD SARKIS, aka, AR

ANTHONY "SHRIEKY" THOMAS, aka,

NICK DITTA, aka, AR

CRIME CONDITIONS IN MICHIGAN

ANTHONY "KANGO" IMBRUNONE, aka

DOMINIC "JOEY" ALLEVATO, aka, AR

RONNIE MORELLI, aKa, AR

HANDBOOK CONTROL FILE

NUMBERS CONTROL FILE

JOEY COPPOLA, aka, ITWI

/x/PCI

/ / PSI

92-216 (Moore)

92-217

(Montefiore)

92228) (Lunt)

92-231

(Arnett)

92-540

(Moore)

92-591

(Arnett

92-664

(Montefiore)

92-669

(Transeth)

92-672

(Fitzpatrick)

92-786

(Iseman)

92-833

(Transeth)

92-876

(Montefiore)

92-924

(Shirley)

92-1006 (Montefiore)

92-1011 (Montefiore)

162-18 (Shelburne)

162-19 (Cammarota)

165-88 (Shelburne)

Purpose and results of contact

/ / Negative

/x/ Positive

Rating

VERY GOOD

Personal Data

RNF : BJM

(19)

Coverage

SAME

Searn 228- 015

Serialized gufiled

FBI

Detroit

July 8 - 1963

LUNT

DocId: 32315467 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

Informant advised that several weeks ago NICK DITTA

gave him a "score" on two old guys, brothers, who own a bar in

Harper Woods. Informant stated that the Wildwood Inn, located at

19800 Harper Ave., Harper Woods, Mich, telephone TU 5-9885, is

owned by two brothers, who are of Belgian descent, and that the

City of Harper Woods wants the property on which the wildwood Inn

is situated for a recreation area.

He said that NICK DITTA

told him that PETE LICAVOLI contacted him recently about pur-

chasing the Wildwood Inn.

Informant revealed that LICAVOLI

gave DITTA authority to pay up to $75,000.00 cash for this

property and DITTA went to see one of the owners. He stated

that DITTA told him that he offered the brother $75,000.00 cash

but was turned down as they wanted $100, 000.00, for

their bar and

property. He stated that the brother, in turning down DITTA's

offer, commented "we don't need cash".

Informant advised that

DITTA told him of the apparent hermit-like existence in which

the two brothers live and

that there should be a lot of money

hidden around their home.

said, however, that DITTA was

offering him this "cold score" and

that he and DITTA had made no

further plans as yet to "take off" these two old brothers who own

the Wildwood Inn.

Informant advised that he and NICK DITTA had earlier

planned to "take off" the residence of TONY ALONGI. He stated

that ALONGI works for his brother in the Eastern Market "on the

payroll" for $100.00 a week although ALONGI actually works in

the numbers in the old Murphy House.

Informant stated that ALONGI

lived in a little house off Eight Mile Road, he believed the

street to be Orleans, and that DITTA has claimed that ALONGI

actually keeps $50 to $60,000.00 in cash in hishome.

Informant

advised that ALONGI is

"cheating the house" in the numbers and

also is "booking a few horses" on the side.

Informant advised that he has recently been associating

with PETE LICAVOLI'S SON, TEDDY LICAVOLI.

He stated that the

previous evening they met at Carmen's Pizzeria, 14618. Mack Ave.,

and then went to the East Warren Recreation, 17225 E. Warren.

Informant said that many of the young Italian hoodlums are now

hanging around this bowling alley and bar. He said that RONNIE

MORELLI is a close associate of TONY CORRADO and he sees them

together frequently at the East Warren Recreation.

vised that MORELLI was there last night with JOE FRANCO, who is a

The at TarTeR READ SO FRANCO,

Infomant ad-

union official, and also a kid named RICHARD "DICK' STEFANI.

Informant added that he has also

seen RONNIE MORELLI and TONY

= 2=

DocId: 32315467 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

CORRADO together at the French Leave, a new bar owned by LARRY

SUMMERS which recently opened on East Jefferson across the

street from the Brodhead Navad Armory.

He stated that LArRY

SUMMERS used to own the Roaring Twenties Bar in Detroit.

Informant advised that he and TEDDY LICAVOLI and

FRANK BIOFORE were at the French Leave the previous night. He

said that LOUIE LA HOOD was in there with "SHRIEKY" THOMAS.

Informant advised that both LAHOOD and "SHRIEKY" were "trying

to promote themselves"with a very attractive red head named

JANICE (LNU) who works as a waitress at the French Leave.

Informant

said that "SHRIEKY" wants to set JANICE up in a furnished apart-

ment and also get her a car

"Ilke he did with FRANKIE CARDONI"®

He revealed that JANICE Iives with a roommate named JANET (LNU),

who is also a waltress at the French Leave, in Apt. 206 at the

Shorecrest Apts, 1350 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit.

Informant

stated that he has heard the story that LOUIE LA HOOd went out

several times with JANET (LNU) from the French Leave and that

JANET is now pregnant by LouIE.

Informant advised that he was at PETE LICAVOLI's home

TEDDY,

, LICAVOLI.

He stated that

he saw a number of PETE LICAVOLI's paintings and he thought them

to be extremely well done..

He said that TEDDY LICAVOLI told him

that a number of PETE's paintings, scenerys and the like, are

hanging on display in "Leon's Beauty Shop, an exclusive shop at

17888 Mack Ave •8

Grosse Pointe

Informant advised further that

TEDDY LICAVOLI's aunt, FREDA, is caring for their home while his

parents, PETE and GRACE LICAVOLI, are in Tucson, Ariz.

He stated

that TEDDY LICAVOLI is selling his Cadillac*

to FRANK BIOFORE,

who owns a grocery store on John R. and Edmund Sts., Detroit.

Informant advised that TEDDY LICAVOLI is buying a 1955 Mercedes

Benz 300 St for $4700.00 from the individual who owns the unlimited

racing sail boat Apache.

Informant related that he and TEDDY

LICAVOLI went over to O'LEARY Cadillac on E. Jefferson in Grosse

Pointe last Friday. He said that TEDDY had his entire car gone

over and he didn't

sign a single paper.

has a charge account at O'LEARY Cadillac. Informant advised that

while at O'Leary Cadillac he spoke with TED ANGOTT, one of the

new car salesmen. He stated that ANGOTT asked him if he knew

TONY GIACALONE and they thereafter discussed TONY GIACALONE's recent

arrest.

Informant said that ANGOTT, In mentioning TONY GIACALONE,

said "he (Giacalone) is one of my best customers."

Informant advised that the coffee house on E. Congress

and

St. Aubin is closed and padlocked and that "BIFFO" MACCAGNONE

3 -

DocId: 32315467 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

is presently hanging around in the evenings at JOEY ALLEVATO's

Bar-B-Que Restaurant on Mack and Barham Aves, Detroit.

Informant advised that he has recently been spend

ing a great deal of time with ANGELO BUFALINO, BILL BUFALINO'S

brother. He stated that ANGELO BUFALINO lives on Alter Road

with his two sisters and that BUFALINO is presently working at

Cobo Hall.

He said that ANGELO BUFALINO is driving a red Tempest

which is a "loaner" car.

Informant advised that one of BUFALINO's

sisters has a 30 year old son who is a Professor at Purdue Uni-

versity and during the summer months works at the Bell Telephone

Co. in New Jersey.

Informant advised that, during the course of con-

versation one evening, ANGELO BUFALINO related to him of his

forner friendship with ROY CALABRESSE, who was found murdered in

On ROY CALABRE

gangland fashion and stuffed in his trunk in February, 1962.

Informant stäted that BUFALINO's opinion was that ROY CALABRESSE

died because of his efforts to muscle in on a large crap game run

on St. Jean Ave. by JOE "WHIP" TRIGLIA. He said that ANGELO

BUFALINO told him that when CALABRESSE

failed in putting the

pressure on TRIG to get a "piece" of TRIG's dice game, CALABRESSE

telephoned the police

one night after leaving TRIG's game and within

five minutes the game was raided and shut down.

Informant added

that CALABRESSE's former girl friend, PIXIE IMBRUNONE, who is the

daughter of ANTHONY "KANGO" IMBRUNONE, is now active in using and

pedding narcotics and she is going with a kid named (FNU) GRAMMATICO

who lives somewhere on Wayburn or Maryland Aves.

Informant advised that the bookmaker at the Hotel

Newport (formerly

the Hotel Savarine) is named "MACK' LNU. He

stated that "MAC" is a little old man in his 60's who lives

at the hotel, is on a pension, and works for a weekly pay in

his bookmaking activities..

Informant advised that "MACK" does

about $50.00 a day "action" and that he "turns in" to ar

individual named "One-Arm Frank" (LNU).

Informant advised that he was with JIMMY MICHAELS

1n

the restaurant early this morning.

He stated that MICHAELS

owns a stable of race horses and also a lot of property in Detroit.

He said that MICHAELS owns the whole block of stores on the south

side of E. Jefferson near Coplin across the street from the

Cinderella Theatre.

Informant revealed that JIMMY MICHAELS alsO

owns property at Nine Mile Road

Restaurant used to be located.

Informant stated that JIMMY

MICHAELS was in company with "BULLY" ABRAHAM, the bartender at the

= 4=

DocId: 32315467 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

Gold Cup Room in the Whittier Eptel, DAVE ZAKOOR, and DAVE BRADY,

who owns Brady's Service Station on E. Jefferson.

Informant ad-

vised that all of this outfit were gloating as they had bet a lot

of money and won Saturday at the DRC on the horse named "Go

Yankee", which paid $33.00 to win.

Informant advised additionally

that a bookmaker only pays off 16-1 to win, 8-1 to place, and

3-1 to show.

Informant stated that recently JOEY COPPOLA was tell-

ing him of the existence of "commission horses".

Informant ex-

plained that a "commission horse" is a "sure thing" and that they

are given out of some place in cincinnati once or twice a week.

He stated that COPPOLA gets the identity of "commission horses"

and furnishes them to some of his better customers to keep them

on the string and "in action".

He said too that a "commission

horse" gives a bettor a sure winner but that it doesn't pay off much,

only $5.00 to $6.00.

Intormant stated that a bookmaker must pay

for "commission horse" service and that he believes, in COPPOLA's

case, that COPPOLA occasionally "lays off" to the Cincinnati source

of his "commission horses"®

Informant advised that on sunday, 6/30/63, ANGELO

BUFALINO picked him up at the hotel and they

went over

to ANGELO's

brother, BILL BUFALINO's home on Weber Place in Grosse Pointe.

Informant stated that BILL BUFALINO and his family were not at home

but wore visiting at someone's cottage in Port Huron, Mich.

He

said that ANGELO BUFALINO took photographs of some flowers in the

BUFFALINO gardens and they left.

Informant advised that he

and ANGELO BUFALINO then

drove up to visit ANGELO MELI at MELI's summer home on the St.

Clair River. Informant said that a large group was at MELI's

home consisting mostly of women and children. He stated that

ANGELO MELI was playing cards with his friends, WILLIE TOIA, who

owns the WILLIAM TOIA Hot Rod Shop at 9146 Gratiot, Detroit,

SWEENEY WILLIAMS, who owns a stamping plant in Burbank, California,

and who came with TOIA, and DOMINIC (LNU), a little short guy

who "looks like a mole" and who was raised around the Franklin

Settlement with Informant. Informant said that WILLIE TOIA and

SWEENEY WILLIAMS had driven up to ANGELO MELI's place in TOIA's

new car, a 1963 four-door hardtop Lincoln Continental, light blue

in color.

Informant advised that they all sat around and con-

versed for several hours and ANGELO MELI then personally conducted

Informant, ANGELO BUFALINO,

and LITTLE DOMINIC (LNU) on a tour of

his farm across the highway from his summer home.

Informant stated

∞ -50

DocId: 32315467 Page 6

---

## Page 7

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

that ANGELO MELI seemed particularly pleased when he showed them

the oil rig where he had struck oil on his farm. He said that

ANGELO MELI told him that JOE LOVERDE was doing

the oil drilling

on his farm and that he is drilling a second well now. Informant

advised that ANGELO MELI was also pleased when he showed them a

new silo on his farm which MeLl claimed "cost over 10 G's".

" He

stated too that ANGELO MELI will soon have a completely automatic

feeder installed in his farm and that all the parts are in crates

near the barn now. Informant advised

that MELI mentioned during

the course of the

tour of his farm, that he also owned

an additional

98 acres in the area and in so doing he pointed toward a farm which

was in view and which also had a new silo and said "it is just the

other side of that place."

Informant advised that ANGELO BUFALINO used to work as

a bartender for ANGELO MELI years ago when MELI owned the Stork

Club, a plush bar and restaurant on Warren Avenue, which burned

down

over ten years ago.

Informant stated that BUFALINO had some

conversation with ANGELO MELI concerning a Florida vacation and

later BUFALINO told him

that ANGELO MELI owns a co-operative

apartment house in Florida and that he had once stayed in these

Florida apartments at the invitation of meLI.

Informant said

that ANGELO MELI commented that he sold his home on Devonshire Rd.

in Grosse Pointe and that since living at his summer home he (MELI)

believed that his health has greatly improved. Informant advised

that ANGELO MELI commented to the effectthat, "out here

I can't be

bothered by my old friends and I'll outlive my enemies"

Informant disclosed that at one point in the conver

that ANGELO BUFALINO mentioned his auto accident in April and that

he was waiting for a settlement. He stated that BUFALINO COm

mented that at the time of his accident his brother, BILL BUFALINO,

called in Dr.

ALUTTO

Informant

advised that at the mention

of De. AIUTTO's name

ANGELO MELI got very upset and commented

that "AIUTTO is a real thief''. Informant disclosed that ANGELO

MELI said that he had warned all

his relatives and associates

to stay away from Dr. AIUTTO.

Informant added further that at one

point ANGELO MELI commented about the home, swimming ppol and

property which is located next door to his own place on the st.

Clair River.

He said that ANGELO MELI mentioned thathe had once

owned this home and property too but, quite a while back apparently,

had sold it.

-6.

DocId: 32315467

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-3242

Informant advised that ANGELO BUFALINO spoke at length

about the recent Detroit Police Department arrest of TONY

GIACALONE •

He stated that BUFALINO told him that

t GIACALONE'S

arrest had really "shaken" the Detroit syndicate and on the

very

day of GIACALONE's arrest, "PAPA JOHN" PRIZIOLA left Detroit on

a hurried trip. Informant commented that BUFALINO emphasized

that "PAPA JOHN" rarely ever leaves town and, in this instance,

it was due to a wide spread fear of further police arrests and

pressures.

DocId: 32315467

Page 8

---

