# docid-32291332

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10108

HQ

62-9-29-706

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/26/1963

2

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV, ML

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291332

Page 1

37

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Recorus CoMtectIon ACt 01 1952 111 136

Noteb: 36 gRAT 2-14.3611-2017

FBI

Date:

8/26/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

RE :

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE

E PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

A!

MM 509-C-IE advised JOK

SHERMAN, a gambler at

Miami Beach, and HARRYKBROOKS (MM 92-657) were pallbearers

at the funeral of JACK KERNS, the well known fight promoter

who died at Coral Gables, Fla.

MM 440-C advised that LOU KIESLER, who is setting

up a gambling casino in the Lucayan Beach Hotel, Freeport,

Grand Bahama Islands, is also the principal owner of the

Seven Arts Production Co.

He was told the Seven Arts Pro-

duction Co. invested heavily in CHESLER's Grand Bahamas

developments. He said he was told the actress, BETTE DAVIS'

B. APPROS HYMAN,.. a

daughter, BARBARA SHERRY DAVIS, age 16, will marry JEREMY

29 year old Vice President of Seven Arts Production

14

Co. In December at London, England. He understood

HYMAN is the nephew of ELIOT, HYMAN, who:

ho is a partner of ROY

STARK and LOUIS CHESLER in the Seven Arts Production Co.

-MM 807-C advised that PHIL KOVOLICK,

a very close

friend

of MEYERULANSKY and JACK LANSKY, has a

daughter,

Phybuls KoVoLIck, who is attending the University of Miami

summer school.

This daughter during the regular school

term, attends the University of Southern California. He

stated KOVOLICK has-another daughter, JUDI KOVOLICK, who

is scheduled to marry one JACK P

KESSLER in November,

1963, and a big wedding reception is planned at the Hollywood

Beach Hotel, Hollywgod, Fla. =

(3 - Bureau

REC

2 - Miami

+9 62-4-22-701

RFF

38561

₫ 5)129

Approved:

EX-103

Sent

25 AUG 28 1963

_ M

Special Agent

C C • Wick

narge

DocId: 32291332 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[Released under the Dohn F. Kenneiy Assassination Recorus Collection Aot of 1992 114 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

MM 743-C reported that he heard SERGET

KIRPATOVSKY

(MM 165-13) formerly a wire service operator and currently

reputed to be in the securities, business, was ordered out of

the Philippine Islands the past summer by the Immigration

Bureau.

He was told that when in the Philippines, KIRPATOVSKY

attempted to secure control of the Benquet Consolidated Co.,

an American mining company, but failed.

MM 698-C advised that LEE BROOKS, son of HARRY BROOKS

(MM 92-657), who married MARGOTT JIMENEZ, daughter of MARCOS.

FLA

XPEREZ MeNEZ; is now residing with the JIMENEZ family in their

- palatial residence at Miami Beach and is head of the household,

aS MARCOS PEREL JIMENEZ is in jail.

He said he was also told

that sometime in the future LEE BROOKS and the JIMENEZ family

plan to make their home at Lima, Peru.

-2

DocId: 32291332

Page

---

