# docid-32302248

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10280-10185

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-41245-936

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45946 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KINZER, EDWARD JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

•PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/10/1961

58

NRO, ASSOC, PLEDGING, CANADIAN GOVERNMENT

BONDS, SWITZERLAND, TELCAL, TRA, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1a, INC 2 ADMINPAGES

v9:1

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page

1

---

## Page 2

.

CG 87-11127

Narrative of Offense

The Brockville Trust and Savings Company is

this company was

brought into the bank building through the sidewalk

grating leading to the basement. Entry was then forced

into an office building directly over the bank, and a

hole was cut into the bank ceiling permitting entry into

the bank lobby behind a frosted glass enclosed offic®

thus the burglars were not visible from the street.

large hole was then cut through the vault wall consisting

of about one and a half feet of brick, cement, and steel.

Acetylene torches were used to cut into the two safes

containing bonds, causing some of them to be scorched.

Thirty-four safety deposit boxes were also broken open

and contents taken, the exact amount not being determined.

The total amount of the burglary is unknown but believed

to be $3,500,000 of bearer bonds, $5,000,000 to $10,000,000

of registered bonds, $15,600 cash and $40,000 jewelry.

Shortly after the burglary, RENE MARTIN (not

identical to subject of this case, RENE ROBERT, also known

as RENE MARTIN) was arrested in Montreal, Canada, having

been traced through a bankbook and a car

sales contract

found at the scene of the crime.

MARTIN had a key to a

railroad station locker in Montreal, from which was

recovered practically all of the registered bonds.

MARTIN

had been sentenced to twelve years in the penitentiary but

had co-operated only to the extent of stating that four

ther men were involved in the burglary.

lave been made for the burglary, and the Brockville Polic

Department advised that the burglary must have taken

approximately four to five hours and was done by professionals.

A number of people have

been arrested in the

₴

87-41245-936

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 87-11127

and DOLLYE TOMLINSON, a woman friend of RABIN, flew to

New xork City where RABIN cashed a $20,000 cashier'e

check he had previously received from the Central National

Bank as part of the proceeds of his bond pledging. While

in New York City for two or three days, he met GEORGE

ERIC ROSDEN at the airport and gave him $3,500 worth of

Canadian Government bonds which were later

determined to

be legitimate bonds issued in September, 1958.

RABIN and DOLLYE TOMLINSON then flew to Europe

on 'combination pleasure and business trip where he

later met GEORGE ERIC ROSDEN. During the middle of

October, 1958, RABIN and ROSDEN sold $15, 000 worth of

Canadian Government bonds to a banking firm, Leu and

Company, Zurich, Switzerland. These bonds were later

determined to be legitimate.

They thereafter entered

into negotiations to pledge

$166,000 worth of Canadian

bonds with Leu and Company. When Leu and Company insisted

on checking the serial numbers of the securities, RABIN

and ROSDEN withdrew them and stopped negotiations.

They

thereafter entered into negotiations with the Fides Trust

Association, Basel, Switzerland, to pledge the bonds but

were referred to the Swiss Credit Bank at Basel.

Here on

October 24, 1958, they pledged $140,500 worth of Canadian

Government

bonds

stolen in this burglary for a loan. The

proceeds of this loan were credited to the Central Trust

Corporation Limited, Vaduz, Liechtenstein. This company

had been previously

formed

bY RABIN and ROSDEN specifically

for this purpose.

On the same day they withdrew nearly

all of this amount.

On November 1, 1958, the Swiss Credit Bank

this burglary.

GEORGE ROSDEN was contacted on November 1, 1958,

Dy the Swiss Credit Bank, and be thereafter contacted

RABIN to advise of the fact that the bonds were stolen.

Both RABIN and ROSDEN entered into discussions with the

Swiss Credit Bank by phone, letter, and in person in an

+=

87-41245-936

NH 45946 DocId: 32302248 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 87-11127

effort to convince the bank that they were in good faith.

RABIN repaid $20,000 of the loan in two $10,000 installments,

one in December, 1958, and one in January, 1959.

Accompanying RABIN on part of his European

trip was one KENT TOMLINSON, a friend of RABIN, and

husband of DOLLYE TOMLINSON. He has been interviewed on

several occasions

10(a)2

NORMAN ROTHMAN, Surfside, Florida; GIUSEPPE COTRONI,

Montreal, Quebec; and these people were aided by RENE

ROBERT, Montreal, Quebec, and GEORGE ERIC ROSDEN, Washington,

D. C.

TOMLINSON did not

know if ROSDEN had

any guilty

knowledge in this case at the time the bonds were pledged

in Switzerland.

According to TOMLINSON and corroborated

by other investigation, RABIN made several trips to Canada

during September, 1958, and again in November and December,

1958, and January, 1959.

last week of December, 1958, RABIN and TOMLINSON flew to

зоранвет, 295 958,

On one of these trips in the

Montreal, where they met COTRONI and ROBERT, and all three

flew to Miami, Florida, where they met with MANNARINO

and ROTHMAN at the Sea Gull Hotel.

The purpose of this

meeting,

according to TOMLINSON, was given by RABIN as

the getting together of all the principals in this case to

decide finally what should be done about the bonds pledged

in Switzerland.

MANNARINO, ROTHMAN, and COTRONI all

accepted responsibility and pledged

their support to RABIN.

On January 29, 1959, RABIN redeemed $9,000 worth

of bonds from

those he had pledged at the Central Nationai

He subsequently concealed these bonds in a desk

drawer where he maintained office space on South Michigan

Boulevard, Chicago. These bonds were located through the

assistance of RABIN and with his consent and are presently

being held as evidence in this case.

The following timetable of events concerning

RABIN's activities is supported by investigation and set

87-41245-936

580-19182

4

NW 45946 DooId: 32302248 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 87-11127

forth in condensed forI.

It is noted that while RABIN

was living at the North

Park Hotel at Chicago, his

terephone calls were recorded by the hotel switchboard.

In order to show RABIN's whereabouts, it was noted that

calls were made from his room on every day except those

dates which are underlined below. It is further noted

that according to KENT TOMLINSON, RABIN made many calls

On TOMLINSON s credit card.

These calls are noted below

as "credit calls."

The specific number called in these

Instances is not known and is not available.

September, 1958

1

10

II

12

13

14

15

16

17

19

20

21

22

23

24

RABIN and TOMLINSON returned to Chicago

RABIN pledged bonds at Central National Bank of

Chicago for $10,000 loan

RABIN 1n Washington, D. C. obtaining passports

for Mr. and MrS. KENT TOMLINSON and himself

RABIN at Queen Elizabeth Hotel, Montreal, 10:37 p.m.

ntil 11:04 a.m

redit call fl to Boi

September 21, 1958

Credit call New York to Chicago; RABIN left

Montreal hotel

87-41245-436

WH 45946 DocId: 32302248 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 87-11127

25

26

27

28

29

30

1

3

Credit call Chicago to Montreal; RABIN flew on

Irans Canada Airlines to Montreal, which fligh

stops in Toronto; Credit call Toronto t

Montreal; RABIN stayed at Queen Elizabeth Hotel,

Montreal, 10:36 p.». until 10:51 &.I.,

September 27, 1958

Credit call New York to Washington, D. C. '

RABIN pledged bonds at Central National Bank

for $11,000 10an; Credit call Lansing, Illinois,

to Montreal; RABIN and KENT TOMLINSON flew to

Montreal from Lansing, Illinois, in TOMLINSON's

private plane

Credit call Montreal to Chicago three times;

RABIN arrived New York City from Montreal;

credit call New York to Chicago and New York

to Hashington, D. C.

October, 1958

Credit call New York to Chicago four times;

credit call New York to Liv (possibly Livingston

Manor, New York where TOMLINSON had business

interests); RABIN pledged bonds at Central

National Bank for $5, 000 10an

Credit call Chicago to Montreal twice; RABIN

pledged bonds at Central National Bank for

$70,875 loan

Credit call Chicago to Washington, D. C.; RABIN

and DOLLYS TOMLINSON arrived in New York City and

stayed at the Barkley Hotel until October 6, 195€

RABIN called ROSDEN from New York City hotel

three times

RABIN cashed cashier's check for $20,000 at the

Chase Manhattan Bank, New York City; RABIN

and DOLLYE TOMLINSON left for European trip;

RABIN, prior to leaving, met ROSDEN at Nev

York City airport and gave him $3,500 worth 01

Canadian Government bonds (legitimate)

18

87-41245-936

580-80187.

WH 45916 DocId: 32302248 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 87-11127

RABIN and DOLLYE TOMLINSON arrived Frankfurt,

8

10

11

12

13

DOLLYE registered Grand Hotel Dolder, Zurich,

where he rented a safety deposit box at the

hotel into which he placed fifteen to twenty

packages which he had in a briefcase and whick

he told the hotel employee contained thousan

dollar bank notes of a total value of $4,000,000

to $5,000,000; RABIN telephoned Doctor ROSDEN

at Hotel George V, Paris, France

RaBIN and bohhis left the hotel but reserved

three rooms for October 12, 1958; RABIN and

DolLiE went to Paris, France, where they met

KENT TOMLINSON;

These three

persons then made

a pleasure trip to Nice, France, and Monaco

idill and ur. and ars. TOMLINSON arrived Rome,

Italy, and stayed at the Hotel Metropole until

October 10, 1958

RABIN and MIS. TOMLINSON left Rome by plane for

Venice, but due to weather conditions landed

at milan, Italy, where they stayed overnight

RABIN and MIS. TOMLINSON took a train to venice,

ruity, where they stayed for two or three days

prior

to their return to Milan where they flew

back to zurich, Switzerland

At venice, Italy

RABIN returned to Hotel Dolder, Zurich, where

he removed valuables from hotel safe and

chereafter registered himself, along with

ROSDEN and DOLLYE TOMLINSON at the Hotel Baur

Au Lac, zurich,

until October 16, 1958

Switzerland, where they stayed

RABIN, possibly accompanied by ROSDEN, gave

Leu and Company, Zurich, $15,000 worth of

legitimate bonds which were sold and credited

to RABIN's account

RABIN and ROSDEN negotiated with Leu and Company

for future bond pledge; RABIN, ROSDEN, and

DOLLY TOMLINSON left Hotel Baur Au Lac; RABIN,

ROSDEN, and DOLLYE TOMLINSON arrived Munich,

Germany, where they stayed at the Four Seasons

Hotel until October 17, 1958

87-41245-936

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 87-11127

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

29

RABIN, ROSDEN, and MS. TOMLINSON left Munich

hotel for unknown destination

KENT TOMLINSON called RABIN from Chicago at

Paris, France

RABIN, ROSDEN, and Mrs. TOMLINSON registered

Hotel Baur Au Lac, Zurich

RABIN and ROSDEN deposited $166,000 worth of

bonds at Leu and Company

ROSDEN and RABIN had conference at Leu and

Company

and were told that bonds should be

checked; RABIN, ROSDEN, and Mrs. TOMLINSON

checked out of

the Hotel Baur Au Lac

ROSDEN stopped negotiations with Leu and Company

and picked up bonds previously left there

ROSDEN and RABIN pledged $140,500 worth of bonds

at the Swiss Credit Bank, Basel, Switzerland

and withdrew nearly all of the proceeds of this

Loan from their account; RABIN returned to

Chicago

Credit call Chicago to New Kensington, Pennsylvania

Credit call Chicago to Cleveland

Credit call Chicago to Montreal; RABIN from hotel

room called American, Trans World Airlines,

Capital, and United Air Lines

RABIN and ROSDEN received and cashed a check

for $29,734.50 at New York City in exchange

for Swiss francs

1

November, 1958

Swiss Credit Bank learned that bonds pledged

by RABIN and ROSDEN were stolen; Swiss Bank

notified ROSDEN of stolen nature of bonds;

10

87-41245-936

580-10182

10

HH 45946

DooId: 32302248

Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 87-11127

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

ROSDEN telephonically contacted RABIN at Chicago

concerning stolen bonds; Three credit calls tr

Montreal; Credit call to Washington; Credi

call to st. Petersburg, Florida

Credit call to Washington

Credit call Toronto to Washington, D. C.

Credit call Montreal to Chicago; Credit call

lashington, D. C. to Chicago

Credit call Mashington, D. C. to Chicago

Credit call New York to Washington; Credit call

New York to Chicago

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Washington, D. C. and

Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

RABIN called United Air Lines and Baltimore and

Ohio Railroad; Credit call Louisville to

Credit can Beth: to chicago

Credit call Chicego to Washington

Credit call Chicago to Montreal

Credit call Chicago to Washington; RABIN signed

guarantee Swiss Credit Bank

Credit calls to Montreal and Washington, D. C.

RABIN called Conrad Hilton Hotel;

Credit call Chicago to Montreal; RABIN flew

Trans Canada Alrlines Iron chicago to Montreal;

RABIN stayed at Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal,

from November 25, 1958, until 10:33 a.m. on

November 28, 1958

87-41245-936

1 1

NH 45946 DocId:32302248 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 87-11127

18

19

20

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

Three credit calls from Chicago to New Kensington

Two credit calls from Chicago to New Kensington

Five credit calls Chicago to New Kensington;

One credit call Chicago to Washington, D. C.;

ROSDEN at New York City called RABIN at Chicago:

SAM MANNARINO registered into Room 326, Sea Gull

Hotel under name SAM BOITI of Pennsylvania

Credit call Chicago to New Kensington; RABIN's

loan at Central National Bank of Chicago came

due; RABIN called Capital Airlines

Credit call Chicago to Montreal; Credit call

New York to Chicago

RABIN called Trans Canada Airlines for reservation

but later cancelled; RABIN renewed his

loan at

Central National Bank

RABIN and KENT TOMLINSON

| flew to Canada in

TOMLINSON's private plane; registered Mount Royal

Hotel, Montreal with KENT TOMLINSON; Credit call

Montreal to Washington, D. C.

RABIN, TOMLINSON, GIUSEPPE COTRONI, and RENE

ROBERT left Montreal in TOHLINSON's private plane

and arrived at Buffalo, New York for customs

COTRONI, and ROBERT flew commercial flight to

Miami, Florida

30

31

connection with the pledging of bonds in Switzerland

Records Pan American World Airways, reflect a

NORMAN ROTHMAN, residence Edificio

Focsa, Havana,

departed Miami on Flight 434

GARYARINO, RABIN, TOMLINSON, COTRONI, aRd ROBERT

all checked out of_the Sea Gull Hotel; RABIN

called Capital Airlines from his Chicago residence

-87-41245-836

13

HH 45946 DocId: 32302248

Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG 87-11127

2

January, 1959

Mr. and Mrs. RABIN registered at Warwick Hotel,

New York City and stayed until January 4, 1959.

(The Mrs. RABIN registered belleved to be DOLLYE

TOMLINSON)

Credit call Chicago to New York City

6

7

8

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

Six credit calls Chicago to Montreal

Three credit calls Chicago to Montreal; Credit

call Chicago to New York City; Four credit calls

Chicago to Miani Beach

Two credit calls to New York City

According to U. S. Customs, RABIN bought gas

at Dorvall Airport, Montreal; KENT TOMLINSON in

300m 1634 at New York City, telephone CI 6-5000

ccording to phone call records; RABIN, MANNARINO

and TOMLINSON checked into the Mount Royal Hotel,

Montreal, and stayed until January 14, 1959

4=

according to U. S. Customs records, RABIN, TOMLINSON,

and MANNARINO arrived Buffalo, New York, fron

Dorvall Airport

RABIN called ROSDEN at Pan American Airways Lounge,

New York City

RABIN had reservation for two on Capital Airlines:

Irom Chicago to New York City via Newark, however;

records reflect only one passenger left

RABIN and MANNARINO flew to Montreal via Trane

Canada Airlines

87-41245-936

58: 1018

WH 45916 DocId: 32302248 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CG 87-11127

21

22

23

-

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

RABIN and MANNARINO stayed at Mount Royal Hotel,

Montreal, January 20 - 22, 1959

CHARLOTTE ZUCKER sold bonds to New York City bank

RABIN sent $10,000 via Western Union to Munich,

Germany

'RABIN received a collect call from Miami

MANNARINO at Pittsburgh served with subpoena to

appear before Federal Rackets Committee hearing;

RABIN called Trans World Airlines

Credit call from KENT TOMLINSON tO RABIN at New

York City, telephone PL 5-5800

RABIN redeemed $9,000 worth of bonds he had

previously pledged at the Central National Bank

of Chicago; Swiss Central Police, Bern, Switzerland,

notified FBI of facts concerning

RABIN

and ROSDEN

pledging bonds in Switzerland which started

investigation in this phase of the case

RABIN called Eastern Airlines and made a reservation

for two to Miami

February, 1959

JFK Law 10(a)2

10

12

13

14

15

ROSDEN furnished a statement to FBI at Washington,

D. C.

United States Attorney, Chicago, authorized

arrest of RABIN at washington,

D. C.

and filing

of complaint on following day; RABIN arreste

Washington, D. C. and furnished statement to

FBI at Washington, D. C.

Complaint filed before United States Commissioner

at Chicago, charging RABIN with violation Section

2315,

Title 18, United States Code; RABIN released

on $5,000 bond

RABINfurnished statement to FBI, New York City

3.5

87-41245-936

580-10182

HH

45946

DooId: 32302248

Page 12

---

## Page 13

CG 87-11127

SuricantA

RENE

ROBERT

former Montready quebec

resident and chauffeur

violation, presently serving long sentence in Canadian

penitentiary.

prosecutive Action

on february 13, 1959, Assistant United States

Attorney JAMES B. PARSONS authorized the arrest of WILLIA!

W. RABIN and the

filing of a complaint against RABIN on

the following day.

On February 14, 1959, a complaint was filed before

the United States Commissioner at Chicago charging RABIN

with violation of Section 2315, Title 18, United States

Code. He was arrested at Washington, D. C. on February 13,

1959, and released on bond the following day.

On June 30, 1959, the Federal Grand Jury at

Chicago returned an indictment against GIUSEPPE COTRONI,

section 2315, United States Code and three counts of

violation Title 18, Section 1343, United States Code.

COTRONI and ROBERT

were charged with aiding and abetting

on all the above charges.

MANNARINO and ROTHMAN were

charged with aiding and abetting on one count of violation

Title 18, Section 2315, United States Code, and all counts.

of Title 18,

Section 1343, United States Code. As a

result of this indictment, subjects ROTHMAN and RABIN

were arrested at Miami, Florida, on July 2, 1959, and

Kensington, Pennsylvania, on July z, 1959, and released on

$5,000 bond.

On July 8, 1959, the Royal Canadian Mounted

Police at Montreal,

Quebec, Canada, arrested RENE ROBERT,

and GIUSEPPE COTRONI in connection with their violation

of the Narcotics Law.

On July 13, 1960, the Federal Grand Jury at

87-41 845-936

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 13

---

## Page 14

CG 87-11127

EK: aaa

as co-conspirators, but not as defendants.

All subjects have appeared at Chicago and have

een released on bond. No date has yet been set fo:

trial of this case.

Evidence Available

to Prove the Theft

GORDON C. MC DONGLL, Manager, Estates and

Trusts Department, Brockville Trust and Savings Company,

srockville, Ontario, Canada (As of December 1, 1959,

Chis company has been known as the Montreal Trust Company

can testify as to the following:

1)

That he was present when an inspection of

the vault was made subsequent to the robbery on May 4,

1958.

2) That he personally supervised the preparation

of a list compiled from the original security cards maintained

by the company, said list reflecting a full description

and amounts of

clients.

3) All entries effecting the bond and stock

ledger cards were made in the original course of the business.

of the bank by employees immediately upon the withdrawal

out of or the transferring into the vault of any security.

securities other than those which were the property of

the safety deposit box customers, oither transferred into

or withdrawn from the vault, were subject to a physical

Inspection by at least two employees A posting vouchei

as prepared immediately to reflect such movement of

securities and was posted to the applicable bond or ledger

card.

+=

88

87-41245-936

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 14

---

## Page 15

CG 87-11127

EK: aaa

Corporal A. J. WART, Ontario Provincial Police,

Perth, Ontario, Canada, under

the direction of Detective

Sergeant M. L. STERRITT of the Brockville Police Department,

took twenty photographs of the interior and exterior of

the Brockville Trust and savings Company on May 4, 1958.

Detective Sergeant M. L. STERRITT also conducted the

investigation concerning this burglary and was present

with Inspector LishIE HOBBs oi the Montreal Police

Department when RENE MARTIN was arrested on May 5, 1958,

for this burglary, and a large amount of registered bonds

were recovered.

Detective Sergeant STERRITT has previously

testified in connection with this case at the trial of

EDWARD BROWDER at Miami, Florida.

Evidence Available

Against Each Defendant

WILLIAM W. RABIN

When RABIN was arrested by the fBl at Washington,

D.C. on february 13, 1959, he was interviewed and furnished

a signed statement to SAs GEORGE E. BANJAMIN and JAMES J.

RYAN.

He related considerable background information

and details concerning his receiving $2,500,000.00 in

Canadian Government bonds IrOn One ALFREDO GARCIA, a

representative of cuban rebels, which bonds were to be

taken to Europe by RABIN. In Europe RABIN would deliver

these bonds in three separate packages to secret agents who

would identify themselves by the number 26. One package

was to be delivered in Zurich, Switzerland, one in Rome,

Italy,

and one in Venice, Italy.

For this RABIN received

$5,000.00 in cash and $266,000.00 in Canadian Government

bonds. RABIN likewise related details concerning his

pledging of these bonds in Switzerland in October, 1958,

and pledging bonds in Chicago just prior to his departure

for Europe in October, 1958.

returned $28,000.00 worth of Canadian municipal bonds to

GARCIA In Chicago during late October, 1958.

In reviewing RABIN's statements made at this

time, the following inconsistencies were noted:

RABIN claimed to have

met GARCIA around

87-41245-936

D86.1960

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 15

---

## Page 16

CG 87-11127

EK: aaa

The trip to Canada can be verified by records

of the Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal, which reflect that

RABIN and TOMLINSON registered there on December 27,

1958, and left on December 28, 1958. Customs records

at Buffalo, New York will verify the arrival there of

KENT TOMLINSON's plane on December 28, 1958, with the

passengers RABIN, COTRONI, and ROBERI

aboard. Records

of Flushing Airport, Flushing, New York, reflect the

arrival of TOMLINSON's plane on December 28, 1958, with

three passengers aboard. Records of the Sea Gull Hotel,

Miami, Florida, which were made available by JOHN KEINAN,

reflect the following regis-

trations of persons arriving at 4:00 AM on December 29,

1958, according

• to their registration cards:

WM. W. RABIN

¿ Cupted rosa le Street, Chicago

G. PETRONE

2210 North Clark Street

Chicago, Illinois

(Occupied room 611)

RENE ROBERTS

2210 North Clark Street

Chicago, Illinois

(Occupied room 612)

KENT TOMLINSON

sss west fortram,

Chicago

(Occupied room 612)

Sea Gull Hotel records also reflect one SAw

BOTTI of Pennsylvania checked into this hotel on December

22, 1958, and was assigned room 326.

The records further

how that all five of the above guests checked out ol

December 31, 1958.

A check of telephone calls from roor

326 reflects that a call was placed to SAM MANNARINO's

residence at New Kensington, Pennsylvania on December

New ka call cat

23, 1958, and two calls to a telephone in New Kensington,

:

31

87-41145-936

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page

16

---

## Page 17

CG 87-11127

EK: aaa

The second form reflected this airplane

arriving from Montreal, Quebec on January 14, 1959,

and listed the following occupants:

KENT TOMLINSON

835 Wolfram

United States citizen

Chicago

SAM MANNARINO, United States citizen

WM. W. RABIN, United States citizen

MYRON M. LIDDELL, Inspector of Customs,

Buffalo, New York, can testify that he recalled receiving

the above aircraft on December 28, 1958. He recognized

JOSEPH COTRONI as one of the occupants, and therefore

proceeded to take oral declarations from each occupant.

Sergeant GERARD HOULE, Royal Canadian Mounted

Police, Montreal, Quebec, advised that he is personally

COTRONI, who resides at 345

Emery Street, Montreal, and operates a restaurant at

2005 De Bullion Street, Montreal.

COTRONI also rented

apartment 104 at 3615 Ridgewood, Montreal, under the

name of PAUL MANN, which had been occupied by one PETER

STEPANOFF, who had been arrested previously in connection

with the handling of bonds stolen from the Brockville

Trust and Savings Company.

At this latter address, in

the basement locker, was located $175,000.00 worth of

stolen Canadian bonds taken in this burglary.

Sergeant

HOULE made available information taken from the files of

the Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal, Canada, which reflected

registrations there by RABIN, TOMLINSON, and MANNARINO.

These records also reflect a

number of phone calls made

to points in the United States. Among these calls were

calls to MANNARINO's residence

and to NORMAN ROTHMAN'S

residence at Miami, Florida.

Sergeant HOULE made available

information identifying the subscribers to telephone

numbers called by RABIN from the Hotel Edison at New York City

in December, 1958.

These listings were previously set forth

87-41245-936

34

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page

17

---

## Page 18

CG 87-11127

EK: aaa

in this report.

Sergeant HOULE likewise advised that

a check on toll calls emanating from the telephones in

Montreal called by RABIN reflected the following calls:

VI 4-9498, to New York City, Edison Motel,

ROOm 925,

one call on December 4, 1958,

three calls on December 5, 1958,

and one call

on December 7, 1958.

This telephone is described

as COTRONI's business phone. Room 925 of the

Edison Hotel is where RABIN was staying at the

time.

LA 6-8622, to New York City, Edison Motel,

Room 925,

three calls on December 5, 1958,

and three calls on December 6, 1958.

Sergeant HOULE likewise directed Constable.

A.M. ANDERSON of the RCMP to conduct investigation at

Montreal Airport.

This investigation reflected

that KENT TOMLINSON made three visits to Montreal in

his airplane, these visits being made on September 29,

1958, December 27, 1958, and January 11, 1959. These

records did not reflect

the names of other passengers in

this airplane.

It was noted, however, that on the January

14, 1959 trip a gasoline purchase invoice was signed by

W.W. RABIN:

+.

35

87-41245-936

580-10182

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page

18

---

## Page 19

CG 87-11127

EK: blg

Lieutenant LESLIE HOBBS, Montreal Police

occurred in Canada over the past several years. He

stated that as a result of the investigation by members

of his department it has become generally known that

GIUSEPPE COTRONI, a Montreal resident and restaurant

operator, has been controlling the majority of bonds

taken in

these burglaries.

He referred to RENE ROBERT as

COrRoNtsE runner and chauffeur and the person who

assists COTRONI in the disposing of these stolen bonds.

He stated that while this opinion exists in his department

concerning these individuals,

there is little factual

information to support this.

He indicated, however,

that the following information may be of some assistance:

KENE ROBERT On August 28, 1958, went to the

Canadian Bank O1 Commerce, 1371 St. Catherine, West

Montreal, Quebec, and attempted tocash eight Dominion of

Canada Vestry.

Bonds valued at $800 which were identified as

stolen from the Brockville Trust and Savings Company.

The bank after determing tht the bonds were stolen advised

the Montreal Police Department, and ROBERT was arrested.

ROBERT was subsequently tried

for possessing stolen

property and at his trial indicated he had receved these

bonds as payment of a gambling debt.

On March 20, 1959,

ROBIRT was acquitted after a jury trial.

Lieutenant HOBBS likewise stated that one LUIGI

MARIANI, 6950 Outremont Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, is

fearful

of his ldfe should he testify in any trial charging

COTRONI with handling stolen bonds.

Should he be used as

a witness it would have to be cleared with him, and MARIANI

should be given some type of protection. MARIANI could

testify that in July, 1958, he was given $8, 300 wath of

Canadian Government Bonds by COTRONI assisted by RENE ROBERT

which he subsequently negotiated at the Canadian National

Bank, 1001 St. Catherine Street, West Montreal, Quebec.

These bonds were identified as having been stolen from the

Brockville Trust and Savings Company. On July 9, 1959, ROBERT and

COTRONt mi arrested by members of the Royal Canadian Mounted

Police in connection with their Illegal trafficing in narcotics.

36

87-41245-936

HH 45946 DooId: 32302248

Page 19

---

## Page 20

CG 87-11127

EK: b1g

On July 14, 1959, COTRONI was charged with the illegal

possession of bonds se the value of $10, 000 which were

stolen from the Brockville Trust and Savings Company.

At a preliminary hearing in this case MARIANI testified

gainst COTRONI concerning his receiving the above-

mentioned stolen Brockville bonds.

Since that time COTRONI

stolen bonds.

J. NORBERT L'ABBE, Security Officer, Queen

Elizabeth Hotel; Montreal, Quebec, has made available

photostat copies of hotel records reflecting registration:

at that hotel for wILLIAM w. RABIN on the following datesi

September 19, 1958, to September 21, 1958

September 25,

1958,

to September 27, 1958

September 29, 1958, to September 30, 1958

Records of this hotel also reflect that on

September 20, 26, and 27, 1958, calls were made from

RABIN'S rOOM

to the residence of GEORGE ERIC ROSDEN at

Washington, D.C.

JOHN MC GORUM,

Supervisor of Canadian Airlines,

Winnepeg, Manitoba, Canada, made available records reflecting

trips to Montreal, Canada,

as follows:

November 25, 1958, Chicago, to Montreal, Flight

Number 310 by WILLIAM W. RABIN and return on November 28,

1958,

Flight Number 307

September 25, 1958, on Flight 310 from Chicago, to

Montreal, by WILLIAM W. RABIN

January 19, 1959, on Flight 314 from Chicago, to

Montreal, by WILLIAN W. RABIN and a person named MANNARINO

R. W. SMITH, Auditing Department, Shell Oil

Company,

624, South Michigan Boulevard, made available

records which reflect that KENT TOMLINSON purchased gasoline

38

87-41245-936

HH 45946 DocId: 32302248

Page 20

---

## Page 21

CG 87-11127

EK: big

Fotel employees whose names are not known

available to testify that upon RABIN's arrival at this

safe which he described as four

to five million dollars in bank notes.

He later renoved

these from the safe upon his checking out of thebotel on

October 13, 1958. The hotel records reflect that

WILLIAM W.

chicago, and

DOLLYE TOMLINSON, 835 Wolfram,

RABIN, 33 North LaS Chiengo, Tilinols, registered

in this hotel on October 7, 1958, into

separate rooms

and leit the hotel on October 8, 1958, for an unknown

destination.

Before leaving RABIN reseived three rooms

for October

12, 1958, however, he did not reappear until

October 13, 1958, when he paid for the rooms but did not

stay.

On the evening of October 7, 1958, RABIN telephoned

the Hotel George Vat Paris,

france, after which he talked

to DI. ROSDEN.

On October 8, 1958,

MrS. TOMLINSON made two

telephone calls to the Hotel De Paris at Paris, France.

Hotel employees whose names are not known at the

Hotel Baur au Lac,

can testify that

indicating the other two persons accompanying him.

other persons were identified further as Mrs. TOMLINSON

and Dr. ROSDEN.

While here on October 14, 1958, RABIN

telephoned ROSDEN's residence at Washington, D.C.

The

three persons registered at this hotel left

on October 16,

1958, for an unknown destination and returned on October

19, 1958, where they stayed until October 22, 1958.

Upon

their departure RABIN and ROSDEN reserved rooms at this .

hotel for November 6, 1958, but they did not return.

LEO VOGELSANG, Nueschelsrstrasse 24, Zurich,

director of Leu and Company; DI. WALTER VON STOCKAR, 8

In Der sommerau, Zurich, Switzerland, a director of Leu

attorney for Leu and Company, can all testify concerning

ROSDEN's and RABIN'S attempting to pledge $166,000 worth of

Canadian Government Bonds at this bank in Zurich, Switzerland

87-41245-938

3':

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 21

---

## Page 22

CG 87-11127

EK: blg

around October 20, to 22, 1958.

They could also testify

concerning $15,000 worth of legitimate Canadian bonds

sold by RABIN to the bank on October 14, 1958. They

could also testijy that statements were made by RABIN and

ROSDEN that RABIN was a weathy. American businessman who

had accumulated large profits during the war and wanted to

invest these profits which he had in Canadian Government

bonds.

They could further testify during the middle of

October, 1958, after the bank officers suggested that these

bonds which had been entrusted to then should be checked de to

their authenticity through sources in Canada when RABIN and

ROSDEN withdrew from negotiations with this bank. During

conversations ROSDEN indicated that it was not proper to

check these bonds and in fact did not want this done giving

as a reason that RABIN had apparently not paid income tax

on the profits he had accumulated and thus an inquiry might

start the tax machinery in motion.

DI. CHARLES KEMPF, 77 Elizabethenstrasse, Basel,

Switzerland, a director of

the Swiss Credit Bank, and

ARTHUR. MERZ, 50 Bruderholzrain, Binningen, Switzerland, a

director of

the Swiss Credit Bank, can testify concerning

RABIN's and ROSDEN's being referred to them from the Fibes

Trust Company, Basel, Switzerland, in connection with their

subsequent pledging of $140,500 worth of bonds on October

They can testify that RABIN and ROSDEN indicated

to then that RABIN had bought these bonds in small quantities

in Canada and kept them there in a safe.

DI. KEMPF Can

also testify concerning subsequent negotiations through the

remainder of 1958, with RABIN and ROSDEN in order to settle

the amount owing the Swiss Credit Bank.

DI. HANS STREICHENBERG, 24 Kapellenstrasse, Basel,

Switzerland, & former director of the Fides Trust Company,

and DI. ERNEST KIEFER, 10 Peter Merianstrasse, Basel,

Switzerland, vice-director of the Fides Trust Company, can

both testify concerning negotiations with RABIN and ROSDEN

on October 23, and 24, 1958, to pledge bonds at the Swiss

Credit Bank.

DI. STREICHENBERG can also testify that

RABIN indicated he was expecting to return to Europe on

November 7, 1958, with other bonds for additional business

dealings.

He can also testify that he was told by ROSDEN

and RABIN that the bonds forged there had been in safes in

87-41245-936

HH 45946 DooId: 32302248

Page 22

---

## Page 23

CG 87-11127

EK: blg

Canada for about ten years.

He likewise could testify

concerning two payments of $10,000 each which were

forwarded to them by ROSDEN as partial repayment of the

loan made to then on the Stolen Canadian Government bonds.

and 10, 1958.

+.

87-41245-836

45946

DooId: 32302248

Page

23

---

## Page 24

CG 87-11127

EK: gaa

number MOhawk 4-3200, Room 622.

It is noted that thie

telephone number is listed to the North Park Hotel, where

RABIN occupied Room Number 622 under the name of R.

EMERSON.

W.

PETER WELCH, Chief Special Agent, Western Union

Telegraph Company, La

Salle and Congress Streets, Chicago,

advised that upon

issuance of a subpoena duces tecum the

above telegram could be produced in court. He stated

that he has learned that the above telegram was sent from

Duesseldorf, Germany, on May 1, 1959, and read as follows:

"New available institution too large with four

million dollar capital.

New York. Signed, 'Eric'."

Stop. Suggest known firm owner

The Federal Police at Duesseldorf, Germany,

advised that GEORGE ERIC ROSDEN stayed at the Breidenbacher

Hof Hotel, Duesseldorf, Germany, from April 29 - May 1,

1959.

They further advised that a handwritten copy of

the above cable 1s available for evidence if necessary. (R) G-I

Concerning ROSDEN's financial status in the fall

of 1958, it is noted that ROSDEN Indicated when first

interviewed in February, 1959, that he was badly in need

of funds when RABIN approached him in September, 1958.

Municipal Court records, Washington, D. C. show numerous

suits filed against ROSDEN between December 30, 1955, and

October 6, 1958, for money alleged to be owed by ROSDEN

Three of these suits filed in September and

Arrest Records for Defendants

The following is the Identification Record of

SAM MANNARINO, FBI Number 115840 as of July 2, 1959:

5B

87-41245936

Crania?

HH 45946

DocId: 32302248

Page 24

---

