# docid-32306586

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10226

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/24/1961

2

SGI, ASSOC, ARMORY LOUNGE, FISUR, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

"DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306586

Page 1

413

---

## Page 2

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

C. 3. C EARTHRAT OF SHOE

COMMUNICATIONS 5507103

FEB 20

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED ELETYPE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE5-24- BYSPSese les

Taper

11. 1. Sul

Tili

1:.259.-

Mr. Matan

Miss mandy

URGENT

2:24-61

10-11 PM JEG

TO DIRECTOR FBI

92-3171

FROM SAC CHICAGO 92-349 2-P

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. PCI ADVISED GIANCANA OB-

SERVED AT ARMORY LOUNGE DURING EVENING OF FEB. TWENTY THREE LAST, DRIV-

ING AN UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLE BEARING SIXTY ONE ILL. LICENSE GE ONE ONE

SEVEN ZERO. THIS NUMBER NOT YET ON FILE WITH STATE OF ILL. CHICAGO :

INFORMANT STATES JOE PIGNATELLO, DRIVER AND CHAUFFEUR FOR GIANCANA.

AND OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS, HAS PURCHASED A NIGHT CLUB IN CHICAGO, AND

IS POSSIBLY REPLACING MARSHALL CAIFANO IN INFLUENCE IN CHICAGO NEAR

NORTH SIDE CLUBS. HE DRIVES A SIXTY CADILLAC, SIXTY ONE ILL. LICENSE

FOUR SEVEN ZERO ZERO FOUR THREE. THIS AUTO OBSERVED AT ARMORY LOUNGE

DURING FISUR CONDUCTED FEB. TWENTY LAST. LICENSE REGISTERED TO U.'S.

AUTO LEASING CO•, CHICAGO. U. S. AUTO LEASING ADVISES ABOVE AUTO LEASED

TO JOSEPH PIGNATELLO, SIX NINE ONE RECES SO PAULINA, CHINES

IT TWO

HUNDRED SIXTY DOLLARS PER MONTH. LEASE EXPIRES MARCH EIGHTEEN NEXT, AND

PIGNATELLO HAS ADVISED DOES NOT DESIRE TO UTAME SERVICES OF THIS

COMPANY DURING COMING YEAR. ABOVE CAR FORMERLY LEASED TO DELUXE

CIGARETTE SERVICE, CHICAGO, WHICH IS OPERATED BY EDDIE VOGEL, CHICAGO

MO@DEUM. PITTSBURGH ADVISED R. V. LUONGO, RCA, CANONSBURG, PA,

END

ONE

DocId: 32306586

AGE ONE

12.64

NTEL

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter:

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

RECONTACTED AND STATED THAT EQUIPMENT DESCRIBED AS NOW IN POSSESSION

OF DAV THROUGH HAROLD MC CLINTOCK WERE SURPLUS MERCHANDISE AND WAS

OUTRIGHT GIFT TO DAV TO BE USED IN HOSPITALS, CONVALESCENI HOMES TO BE

DISTIRBUTED TO THESE INSTITUTIONS. THIS GIFT IS TO BE WRITTEN OFF BY

RCA AS: DEDUCTIBLE ITEM. LUONGO STATES HE HANDLED ENTIRE TRANSACTION AND

NO INVESTIGATION WAS CONDUCTED ON MC CLINTOCK, WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF

AS CHAIRMAN, RECLAMATION AND REDEMPTION COMMITTEE, DAV. CHICAGO SIX

FOUR THREE FIVE DASH C ADVISED THIS DATE GIANCANA, WILLIAM DADDANO AND

ONE GEORGE DIX HAVE RECENTLY TAKEN OVER GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN ROBBINS,

INFORMANT

ILLO, CHICAGO SUBURB POPULATED MAINLY BY NEGROES $284930SS STATES HE

HAS OPPORTUNITY TO BE EMPLOYED IN THE BIG GAME IN ROBBINS. SPOT

CHECKS AT ARMORY LOUNGE, AMBER LITE LOUNGE, GIANCANA-S RESIDENCE AND

OTHER KNOWN HANGOUTS CONDUCTED THIS DATE DID NOT REVEAL PRESENCE OF

GIANCANA. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. ARMED AND DANGEROUS. Y

END AND ACK PLS AND HOLD

DocId: 32306586 Page 3

---

