# docid-32290103

## Page 1

1. sen

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10202-10379

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-33-341

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/14/1962

2

CIP, CM, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760

DocId: 32290103

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. (12-13-56)

F'BE

10?.

Transmit the following in

Date:

9/14/62

PLAIN TEXT

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad C

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans...

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss_Gandy-

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

211 e

CARLOS ARCELLO

714"

4.5

I PCI, Miami, advised that in recent

conversation with MARCELLO, MARCELLO has advised that he

expects to receive a favorable ruling on the writ of coram

nobis hearing and if MARCELLO wins this legal suit he hopes

to open the Beverly Club as a plush gambling casino.

Jadvised that the property is now owned by

Houston millionaire who took it over atter

advised that arrange-

be made for him to purchase this property and

that MARCELLO would obtain an ok from the Governor. to xe-

open this club.

advised that this plan is contingent

"on the coram nobis hearing.

The operation plan would be for

he operators of the chesterfield Club to move ear equip

ent and personnel to the Beverly Club..

that MARCELLO's interest would be concealed.

advised

MARCELLO has an interest in the Chesterfield Club and

that his front man is SAY BOHEMIA. Ville

Accomplishments of the New Orleans Office are as

follows:

REC- 16

621-33-341

3-Bureau

5 SEP. 1'7 1962

4-New Orleans

(2-92-50)

(1-92-36)

(1-137-1044)

80T-X3

RLK/CjO

(7)

C. C. Wick

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

39x

57 SEP 201962

NW 45760 DocId: 32290103

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

