# docid-32340973

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10366

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 363

144 USC

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: YEAGLEY, J. WALTER

TITLE:

• PAGES:

PACES: 1/10/1967

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, OBA, ASSOC, BOMBING RAID, CUBA, FINANCES,

INDICTMENT, US GOVERNMENT WITNESS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

HH 54027 DocId: 32340973

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

S

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

October 10, 1967

Wannall

1 - Mr. Nasca

ORLANDO BOSCH X AVILA

BARBARO BALAN Y GARCIA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

MUNITIONS CONTROL ACT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED * 24,326

DATE 6/23/83

91195

Neterence is nace to your communacation care

September 22, 1967, in which you requested advice as to

whether Arthur Andrew Girtett of Miant, Florida, had

furnished any statements to this Bureau.

Attached for your information is a copy of forn

TD-302 dated March 29, 1967, setting forth infornation

furnished by Girteit.

This information can be furnished

to the defense counsel if this becomes necessary. If the

information is furnished, it is recommended that the file

nunber appearing on the lower right-hand corner be excised.

For your additional information, on February 1,

1967, Vallaco Shanley, Assistant U.S• Custons Agent in

Charge, Miami, Florids, advised that Cirteit was a Custons

source but that Girtelt was interested in being a tull-time

paid informant for the U.S, Goverment, Shanley introduced

Girtoit to Special Agent (SA) Robert J. Dwyer of our Miami

Office. Girteit briefly mentioned general infornation

concerning his past activities and offered to cooperate

with the FBI as a salaried informant.

6FK) -

ORIGINAL FILED IN

and furnished additional

past activities and offered to work as an informnt on a

salaried basis.

On March 29, 1967, Girteit contacted

SA Dwyor for the express purpose of offering to serve as

an informant for a fixed salary.

Girteit was told that the FBI would accept any

infornation he furnished, but would not pay him for it.

no sea out enocarped to recontact our Mart offled.

Miami

97-4474 CHIRR)

05-13683)

REVIEWED BY &SWJFK TASK FORCE

ON 7-23.92 dal

97-4474-

VHN: seq (7)

I RELEASEINNOTE

• PAGE TWO

NOT RECORDED

OUPLICATE YELLOM

580C1 7 1967

I RELEASE IN PART

176 OCT 12 1967

• TOTAL DENIAL

571-103079

HH 54027 . DooId:32340973

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

This Bureau interposes no objection to the intor-

mation concerning the contacts between Girteit and SA Dwyer

being furnished the defense counsel ll this becomes necessary.

For your confidential information, Mr. Shanley

and a source who has furnished zeliable information in the

past have previously advised that they did not trust Girteit

and indicated that he was dishonest and unreliable.

Enclosure

NOLSE

Subjects, Cuban exiles, are curntly under indictment

in Custons case charged with attempting to export arms in viola-

tion of statutes over which Custons has primary jurisdiction.

The U.S. Attorney intends to use Girteit as Government

witness.

The Internal Security Division anticipates demands

will be made by defendants for production of any pretrial state-

ments furnished by Girtelt to Government. Accordingly, Internal

Security Division requested advice as to whether Girteit had

furnished any statements to the Bureau either orally or in

writing, it so, it requested it be furnished copies of any such

statements together with our views as to whether they could be

turnished to defense counsel and our recommendations regarding

any excisions which should be made prior to furnishing such

statements to defense counsel.

The PD-302 sets forth interview of SA Dwyer with

Girteit, 3/29/67-

Girteit furnished details concerning his

meeting with subject Bosch regarding forthcoming bombing

mission over Cuba, Bosch discussed the amount of money which

would be used to finance the raid, the number of persons who

would participate, and the number of bombs to be used.

Miani

recommended that the file number appearing on the FD-302 be

excised:

• 20.

951-10388

HH 54027 : Do0Id:32340973

Page 3

---

