# docid-32334725

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90118-10084

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2897-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/13/1958

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 45922

3

DocId: 32334725

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memo: andum • UNITED STALES GOVERNMENT

TO

; DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: • 1/13/58

Alie, ONes 0232)

SUBJECT:

HARRY RAY TORO ONE COVERAGE - TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Dallas File 92-34

00 - DL

The

following informants and potential criminal informants of

the Dallas Division are in position to furnish informatior

concerning subject HARRY RAYMOND POPE:

8-1

(I)

Was., PCI (Dallas file 137-536)

is the ex-wife of, but still lives with, Dallas police

character JIM ERASTMUS REED, FBI No. 4121536.

REED is a very

close associate of POPE in caminal activities, as is DREXEL

LLOYD ALLEN, FBI No. 4638760.

is well acquainted also

with ALLEN.

It has been determined that on several occasions,

POPE, ALIEN and REED have discussed their past activities and

future plans in the presence of l

On other occasions REED

has advised

of the activities of POPE in confidence.

(2) DL-83-C, CI (Dallas file 137-387)

CI is very close associate of RAMONA LAVON PARKER, Dallas prosti

tute and wife of JACK ANDREW PARKER, FBI No. 3569302.

PARKER

is POPE's cousin, and POPE has resided and associated with PARKER

on numerous occasions, in Dallas in the past. It should also

be noted that because of POPE's interest in prostitution

activities, CI is able to furnish any such information that comes

to her attention in view of her wide acquaintanceship in the

prostitution business in the Dallas area.

(3)

Was., PCI (Dallas file 137-514)

PCI 1s a ball bondsman In Dallas, and as such has become personally

acquainted with POPE and all of POPE's known Dallas associate.

both male and female.

This PCI knows of, or hears through other

police characters,

the activities of POPE and his associates.

1i1 700 da

- Bureau

• REGISTERED

2827-11

2

- Dallas

(92-34)

(1 DL 94-55A)

MAIL)

SORDED -

3

JAN 1/ 1958

RMB/asb

60 JAN 241930

OTHER 4

HW 45922 DocId: 32334725 Page 2

---

