# docid-32319372

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-W8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: ROSEN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/09/1964

334

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME X

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/03/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC FOLDER, MEMO, LET, INSERT, A/T, CABLEGRAMS, TTY, RADIOGRAMS, LIST,

TRANSLATION, NEWS ARTICLES

v9.1

DocId: 32319372

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 - Mohr

1 - DeLoach

W. C. Sullivan

W. A. Branigan i

10-2-64

1 ~ Callahan

- Sullivan

1 « Rosen

I - Malley

Branigan

stokes

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INTERNAL SECURITE - RUSSIA - CUBA

State Department advises that Commission request to declassily

Legal Attache Mexico City's 5-18 "Secret" summary memorandum 1s not

Inkely to cause harmiu repercussions between mexico and u.s. and

it has no objection to declassification.

This reconnends that we

prepare a sanitized unclassified version of the summary for delivery

to the Connission, a procedure which the Commission now states will

meet its needs.

The Connission on 9-22 asked us to declassify the "Secret"

181-page 5-18-61 summary prepared by Legal Attache Mexico City.

The principal reason for classification of the sunnary was to avoid

disclosure of active investigation in Mexico by Bureau personnel, a

factor the Mexicans strongly opposed and to protect highly sensitive

security informants (Mex 18 and 19) who provided some of the data

in the document.

Because of possible international repercussions

between Mexico and U.S. if the sunmary was made public, we on 9-23

sought the views of the State Department.

State!s 9-29 written reply

expresses view that declassification is not likely to cause harmful

repercussions between lexico and U. S. and, accordingly, it interposes

no objection to declassification.

Legal Attache, Mexico City, is opposed to declassification

of the document in its present form and suggests that, if possible,

a sanitized version be prepared by deleting

three nonsubstantive 1tems

which are not referred to in the Commission's report and by deleting

references to sources of information through which reader may distinguish

between Mexican sources and Bureau Agents.

On 10-1 Miss Hennigan, secretary to W. David Slawson,

staff member of the Connission,

Bureau, a redraft of same deleting or changing the material which may

be harmful to Bureau's operations would fully i1t the Commission's

needs providing the rewrite covers all of the Mexican aspects of this

Investigation touched upon by the Commission report.

105-82555

JCS: polo

(10)

DocId: 32319372 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mir. Sulliyan

Re:

LEE HARVEY. OSWALD

105-82555

The sumnary can readily be amended to suit the Comnission's

needs and at the same time to protoct Mex 18 and 19 and to avold

disclosure of the extent of our investigation in Mexico.

This can

be accomplished by deleting reference to three itens which are not

touched upon in the Connission's report and by rewriting an introduction

paragraph on page one deleting a spec111c reference to a confidential

source abroad (legat).

The Connission's report on page 304 records

that". • • the Government of Mexico initiated a thorough investigation

to uncover as much information as possible on Oswald's trip.

Representatives of U. S, agencies worked in close liaison with

Mexican law enforcenent authorities."

A slight revision of

introductory paragraph on page one will accurately fit the above

statemont of the Commission.

RECOMHENDATION

It is recommended that to properly protect our operations

in lexico, the 5-18 summary be written in unclassifled form as

We

propose to amend principally by deletior five to six pages and to

reproduce the document by Keros and to renumber the pages.

2

" M?

DocId: 32319372

Page 3

---

