# docid-32327973

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10214

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/18/1963

3

SALVATORE GRANELLO

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT, INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32327973

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE36 (k+142 2010)

FBI

Date: 4/18/63

11.7

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

A. ROSEN)

REG teleuel:

SAI

NEW YORK (137-9495)

• CONF. INFT

NY 3936-0

the ice

CRIMINAL INFORMANT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE -27-93 BY 508 MUAC ISE

RENYairtel, 4/15/63.

JFKL)

are

Enclosed/five copies of 14 letterhead memoranda

prepared in connection with information furnished by this

informant on 4/11/63, as previously set forth in reairtel.

It is anticipated that source will be recontacted on

4/17/63.

INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE ENCLOSED LETTERHEAD

MEMORANDA MUST NOT BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE

THE

BUREAU

IN ITS

PRESENT FORM.

UTMOST CARE SHOULD BE USED

ILL DISSEMINATION OF

ANY MATERIAL FURNISHED BY THIS INFORMANT.

SATIRO COPY AND COPY ON ENCE FILED DY

100: 339

• 6 MAY 3 - 1963

Aporoved

WAV: pcs

(5)

mens fole

Bureau (Encl. dU)

New York (13479495)21

111 seat

ENCLOSI

15c€

retarict

14/B4163

Sir.

Thon to Chin

i in l +37-8862-544

4 %%

MAn: Win

87 APR 30.1963

APR 3E 1963 08

Sent -

. M

Per

serial

in Charge

DocId: 32327973

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-1

017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

April 17, 1963

Re:

*

Salvatore Granello

It has been alkged that an individual named De Joie,

the former Prime Minister of Haiti, is leading a revoluntionary

group from the Dominican Republic in an attempt to overthrow

the government of Haiti.

Salvatore Granello, a member of the New York criminal

element, has indicated a desire to establish gambling casinos

in Haiti. It has been alleged that when De Joie requested

$20,000 in cash immediately to purchase arms and food, Granello

and James Plumeri, who is also interested in establishing

gambling in Haiti, backed off temporarily since they did not

want to lay out this amount of cash.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO

This document contains neither recommendation

nox conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

7

#005008580

DocId: 32327973

Page 3

---

