# docid-32129237

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Search

Exit JFK

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Released under the John

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-14-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10074

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-731

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : OFLAHERTY, JOHN JAMES

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

[No Titlel

DATE

: 12/13/1963

PAGES

: 40

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, POST-RP, POLIT AND SUBV ACT,

REL, ASSOC, CONSPR

THEORY, CUBA, CHINESE COMMUNISTS

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

HH

1/2

---

## Page 2

D-263 193Y, 5-1-59)

REPORTING REWE YORK

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE BAINS

LEE HARVEY OSWALD aka

DAT 2/13/63

REPOOANADFANES O'FLAHERTY

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - R

REFERENCE

at NY.

Repert of SA JOHN JAMES O 'FLAHERTY, dated 12/11/63

134.3

Let tol

10/23/6119

eprrire.n.

_P-

\ ADMINISTRATIE

Information copy being furnished to New

or leant m

(Mossace in view cf their interest in Investisation re lubject.

This report contains results of investigation con-

gaucted prior to rarep but not received in time for inclusion

"In rerep.

ROYED

APROVE PO

It 1s to be noted that Nytel to Bureau and SAC,

Dallas, 11/27/63, contained Information re subject from

files of NYC Department of Welfare which Indicated that

subject was processed by that Department in June, 1962,

mand subsequently departed NY for Texas:

Instant report

contains additional information as reflected in Welfare

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105.

87055-

73/

Buredu (105-82555) (RM)

2 - Dallas (RM)

• New

• Orleans

(Into)

- New York (205-38431 (RN)

5

DEG

• 18 1963

Dissemination Record of Kitached Report

Fris, Emse

Notations

SOVIT

AUR CNSORGATION CONRATW

83

3/93

E015

39

REG 115

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

1/13/64

RELIN

JAN

3 2 190€

Copies Noted an

TH 53932 DocId: 32129237 Page

3 red 78, 2/16/26

9802202sl

---

## Page 3

NY 105-38431

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D.

file concerning subject's association with and assistance

received from the above-mentioned Department.

It is to be noted that in connection with inquiry

Econducted at Bankers Trust Company, NYC, as reflected herein,

It a review of the NYO Indices failed

to reflect any information

@remans 10118164

identifiable with RAMON B. CORTES, (FNU) FERNANDEZ FEITO or

3 (FNU) SAVEDRA.

It would also appear that the two SAAVEDRA

individuals, which names appeared in the records of the above

bank, are not identical with (FNU) SAAVEDRA as set forth in

Miami tel to Director, 12/9/63.

reman

NYO will continue to conduct investigation re

subject on the basis of teletypes received from

Bureau,

office of origin - Dallas, and other offices.

INFORMANTS

copus

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 111-S

NY T-2

CIA

File Number Where Located

134-69

instant file

.macle.com

a declared.

Confidential source, referred to herein, is ROBERT

A.

WEBBER, Auditing Department, 16 Wall Street, NYC, NY

(protect by request).

CLASSIFICATION

This report being classified "Secret"

'inasmuch as

Information reported herein as received from CIA, which

information is also set forth in Miami tel to Director and

SACS, Dallas and NY, 12/9/63, was similarly classified by

CIA.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

Ser dit to Fartini

10/83/64 me Chrongs

WW 53932 DocId: 32729254-page 5 as coques

---

