# docid-32298756

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10224-10036

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-589-28

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NI 45960 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GEMBERLING, ROBERT P.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/18/1962

PAGES:

96

SUBJECTS :

JEST, AKA, ASSOC, REL, RES, TELCAL, BOOKMAKING ACT,

• B/F INT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES iii, INDEX PAGES 73-80

v9.1

HH 45960

DocId: 32298756

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 162-39

DL 162-95

DL 162-96

DL 162-179

The information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Mcallen, Texas, was made available to

SA HAROLD H. CROSSETT on 4/20/62, by DAVID SHAW, Manager.

The information from: the records of the Southwest

Bell Telephone Company, San Antonio, Texas, was furnished

by ROY MOORE, Supervisor.

Mr. MOORE advised that the IBM

telephone number DI 2-2182, San Antonio do

not for the most

part carry the telephone numbers involved a He advised the

original operator table which bears the telephone numbers

is sent to the IBM punch operator who only records the date,

place of

call, area from which called, the minutes, the

amount and the type, which in this case is credit card.

The telephone numbers are not put on the IBM cards. The

original telephone operator table is then sent to a storage

file where

they are filed by exchanges without regard for

sequence of numbers or alphabetical listing of customers.

While these tables might be found, it would be a mayor

undertaking to check these tables

for the listed telephone

numbers.

This is not being done at this time by the San

Antonio Division.

Information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas, was made available Io

SA. ROBERT P. GEMBERLING on 5/7/62 and

5/31/62, by Mr. R. A.

BURROW, Chief Special Agent.

The information from the records of the Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Yazoo City, Mississippi

(Jackson, Mississippi) was made available to SA SAMUEL N.

JENNINGS

on 4/16/62 by Mr. H. CECIL STUBBS, Chief Security

Officer.

The information from the records of the Citizens

Bank of Joplin, Missouri, was made available to SA ARTHUR

N. THOMPSON on 5/7/62, by RONALD APFEL, Assistant Cashier.

The information from the records of the Pacific

Telephone Company, Los Angeles, California, was made available

to SE EARL F.

DUDLEY on 5/14/62, by CS LA 4178-S.

- 1-

Cover Page

45960 DooId: 32298756 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 162-39

DL 162-95

DL 162-96

DL 162 179

JEK Act 6 (4)

Date

4/19/62

4/19/62

4/19/62

Financial

Institution

Name of

Official

Bank of Services

and Trusts

CS J.

BENTON

LINQUIST

First Citizens Bank CS JAMES WEST

Fair Park National CS PAUL R. JESTER,

Bank

Agent

SA ALFRED D.

ELLINGTON

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-1 is H. B. SMITHERMAN, Investigator, Internal

Resenue Service, U.S.

Treasury, Federal Building, Shreveport,

Louisiana, who furnished information to Agent of the New

Orleans Office on 4/11/62.

DL. T-2 is EDNA DONALDSON, Postmaster, Diamond,

Missouri,

who furnished information to SA ARTHUR N. THOMPSON

on 5/4/62.

DL T-3 is PCI WILLIAM GROVER RAWLS, MCAllen, Texas,

who furnished

information to SA HAROLD H. CROSSETT on 4/6/62.

DL T-4 is PCI|

McAllen, Texas,

who furnished information to SA HAROLD H. CROSSETT on 2/19/62.

REVIEWED BY TEMJEK TASK FORCE

626/98 dal

RELEA

RELEASE IN FANT

07

TOTAL DENIAL

74 45960

DooId: 32298756

Page 3

---

