# docid-32336014

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90130-10081

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-535

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/02/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32336014

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ReeDE! 1-Le-20h9 Join 15 Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (Ad USE 2107 MotE).

STANPARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memo Andum • UNITED SEES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

ALL INFORMA JUANBCONTALLY, 2/59

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM

ROTE SAC, MIAMI (105-1742)

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTEN

SUBJECT:

218-48

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES int

256685401

(a4-428/95-57)

Classified

GLASSIACO BY 5768 SID 1A58

Bedlassity/

lon.

OACH

4/24/56

DECLASSIRY ON: ESX

ReBulet 10/15/59, to Miami.

ReBulet contalned an enclosure of intormation obtained

from the confidential source abroad!

This enclosure was classilled

"secret.

Confidential source abroad

indicated the following:

Miami défice interviewed General JOSEPEDRAZAlS

The Miami Office has not interviewed General JOSE

in go 49

APPROPRIATE

AND

ADUTE

ST

PEDRAZA.

2)

That General PEDRAZA was in Miami on 8/28/59, for a

unity meeting of anti-CASTRO organizations. GS>

Miami Office has had no indication that PEDRAZA was

in the United States of that any unity meeting was held. Miami

sources continue to state. that there is still no unity among

the anti-CASTRO organizations.

That PEDRAZA was elected head of the joint anti-CASTRO

organization and future provisional president of Cuba.(S)

The majority of anti-CASTRO leäders in Miami advise

that PEDRAZA is the military leader of the anti-CASTRO movement

and that EMILIO NUNEZXPERTUONDO the political leader of the

movement and is considered the future provisional president

of Cuba.

1 22446

That FRANCISCO RODRIGUE

COUCETRO had the support!

of U.

, senators are that historganization is unwilling

work with

ORLANDO PIEDRALE ESTEBAY INTORA, SALES CANIZARES

and

ROLANDO

MASFERRER. (S)

NOA 15

Classified by

Excempt from

3 2

Bureau (RM)

A MECEIAED

Date of g

2

Miami

(51

EX 104,

109-384,533

• NOV 4 1959

RJD: gfg

(4)

11/48/59

SECRET

NAT INTESEC.

DocId: 32336014

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

CREN

RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO has advised the Miami Office

in the past that he had contacted U. S. Government officials

in Washington, D. C. for support but nothing had been promised

to him. He also said that his organization would not unite

with other anti-CASTRO organizations and more specifically not

with PIEDRA, VENTURA and MASFERRER. (U)

( 5)

That COUCEIRO said they have some Staghound armored

cars and 15 Mustang airplanes.

FRANCISCO RODRIGUE TAMAYO, tomer member dE CRAC

Executive Board, has

advised Miami Office that CRAC needed

$15,000.00 to purchase arms and disseminate propagandal)

RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO had advised the Miami Office that

CRAC had purchased machinegunss from Israel and that they were

stored in a bonded warehouse in New York City. (U)

MM 639-S, who is in contact with RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO,

stated that it was very doubtful that RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO had

any planes or armored cars in or outside of the United States

inasmuch as CRAC is seriously lacking in financial backing BA)

16)

That a meeting was

held on 9/1/59, at a house

13th Avenue, Miami, Floriday®RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO and RODRIGUEZ

TAMAYO reside at 1325 Southwest 13th Avenue, Miami.

$71)

That an anti-CASTRO organization owns a 120 foot

patrol torpedo boat based in Miami and transmits anti-CASTRO

broadcasts to Cuba every night.

60R6Isi

CARLOS ZAYAS/CASTRO arrived in Miami on 1/1/59,

with ROLANDO MASFERRER aboard ZAYAS' yacht, "O1o Kun II,"

a 63 foot

converted air-sea rescue boat. (U)

ZAYAS later sold the boat to JOSE PUJOL Of CRAC, who

renamed the boat "Aladino."

CRAC tried to broadcast propaganda

- 2-

109-584-535

DocId:32336014 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

DATE: 11-14-2017

under the Woln F. Kennedy ASSaSSinAtION Records CollectIon Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

MM 105-1742

CREN

Ato Cuba with radio equipment on this boat

hat made

technical

difficulty, the broadcasts were unsuccessful a

and further

efforts were discontinued. MM 639-S is completely familiar

with this unsuccessful operation.

RODRIGUEZ COUCEIRO has

advised that plans to broadcast propaganda to Cuba from this

boat had been abandoned

JOSE PUJOL has since defected from CRAC, operates

a gas station in Miami and the "Aladino" at the present time

is moored at the City Docks, Pier 5, Miami.(U)

СОИ

-

3

BACHEL

DocId: 32336014

Page 4

---

