# docid-32404434

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10305.

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

F. Kennedy

FROM

: JOHN F. PEREIRA

Assassination Records

TO

DCI, DDCI

Collection Act of 1992

TITLE

MEMO: STATUS REPORT- -DECLASSIFIOi44 USC 2107 Note) .

ASSASSINATION RECORDS

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

DATE:

11/15/1993

PAGES

3

06-24-2017

SUBJECTS :

TESTIMONY

MICROFILM

JEK ASSASSINATION

DATE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

OF LAST REVIEW

04/30/03

COMMENTS

: JFK-M-16 : F2 : 2000.02.11.08:08:48: 187054

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10305

HH 53217

DocId: 32404434

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

/2000

CSI-0340/93

15 November 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director of Central

Intelligence

Executive Director

Director, Center for the

Study of Intelligence

John F. Pereira

Chief,

Historical Review Group

Status Report--Declassification of

Kennedy Assassination Records

1. This memorandum is for your information.

It

provides an update on the Agency's efforts to declassify

records related to the assassination of President Kennedy.

2.

During your testimony before HPSCI on 28 September,

you mentioned that we expected to release within the next

month 80-90 percent of the 10,000 pages of JFK documents

initially denied in full. In

fact, the pace has proceeded

more slowly than expected, partly due to the complexity of

these documents, which include many lengthy forms.

We have

completed about sixty percent of the review. On 12 November

we transferred approximately 1,700 pages--comprising the

remaining Oswald materials--to the National Archives.

(Only

a handful of previously withheld documents in this batch

remain denied.)

Our target date for completion is late

December, but additional batches will reach the Archives

before then.

3. Regarding the 150,000 pages of microfilm material,

which you also discussed during the hearing, we have

completed review of nearly 30 percent of these records.

We

expect to complete review of the microfilm in January 1994,

but will still need to coordinate and redact before

releasing the records to the National Archives.

This could

take up to six weeks.

In order to speed up the declassi-

fication of the microfilm, we have added 11 contract

personnel and have obtained additional office space.

Our

ability to accelerate the pace has been hampered by the poor

quality of the microfilm printouts, caused by unclear camera

focus.

It has also taken considerable time to train new

also Caken cone arable

employees and to acquire additional equipment.

FOR OFFICIAT USE ONLY

NW 53217 DooId:32404434 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONEX

SUBJECT:

Status Report--Declassification

of Kennedy Assassination

Records

We have also been requested to divert personnel to

review JFK documents containing CIA-originated information

in several substantial sets of records outside the Agency.

these include the holdings of the SSCI, the House Assassi-

nations Committee, the National Archives, and three

Presidential Libraries.

will have an impact on the

pace of our internal review.

5.

We have been advised that on 17 November

Congressman Conyers' Subcommittee on Legislation and

National Security will hold an open hearing on the

processing of JFK assassination records.

Archives

is the only Executive Branch agency to be invited

to testify. To our knowledge, CIA has not been asked to

provide anything for the hearing.

The President has yet to appoint the Review Board,

which will have full authority on questions of release and

withholding of JFK assassination records.

The absence of a

Review Board is forcing us to use resources to review

material that the Board may well allow us to withhold.

The

FBI has yet to release its records on the assassination.

CIA is the only federal agency with large JFK holdings that

complied with the original 22 August deadline and is

continuing to send additional material to the National

Archives.

John F. Pereira

FOR DIFICIAL USE ONLY

HH 53217

DocId: 32404434

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO DEITEINE USE ONEY

SUBJECT:

Status Report--Declassification

of Kennedy Assassination Records

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/30335

Distribution:

original

-

DCI

1

DDCI

1

ExDir

1

-

ER

1

- D/CSI

1

- C/HRG

1

.- HRG files

(15 NOV 93)

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONEY

HH

53217

DooId: 32404434

Page 4

---

