# docid-32331253

## Page 1

Released under the John 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10199

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2989-74

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: LO

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: CABLEGRAM

v9.1

DocId: 32331253

20

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

GABLE TO LEGAT cOIDON

INSPECTON TRIDERICK V. HATHS, JEW YORK COUNT DISTRIOT

ATTORNEY'S OFFICE, PAREN PROTROT PAREN, ADVISED SUBTICI, BELLO, AND

MARTY KLEIN OF LOS ANGELES, CALITORITA, LET? NEY FORK TOGETI ON

MARCE FITE, LAST, ON THA FLICKY SETEN HUIRED FOR LOMON, AOTOR

GEORGE RATT AND RATTIS MANAGER KIOWN ONLY AS SAM MAT HAVE BEEN WITE

PREM, RAFT SCHEDULED TO STAT AT DIPLOMAT HOTEL, LONDON.

HATAS SAID SUBJECTS INTIRST IN DUROPE IS UNDARORID GAMBLING

OPERATIONS, SUDICT TO CONTACH MAN NAMED THU KATTEL, MANAGIR OF

GAMBLING CASTIOS IN LONDON AND FRANCE. PATTEL POSSIBLY IDENTICAL

WITH ALLEN EASTEL,

BROTHER OF HEY ORLEANS HOODEN PUILIP RASTEL. I

BAINS TUNISHLD INTORMATION CONPIDENIALLT AND DOES NOT DESIRE

HIS OTTICE BE DISCLOSED AS SOIRCE.

HE REQUESTED IT BE FURNISHED

INTORLATION OW WICH AND HOW TOURINE IS RITURNTIG TO NEW YORK AND

AMOUNT OF MONET IN POSSESSION OF TOURINE AND BELLO.

SE AISO ASKED

FOR BESTS OF ANY LAVESIIOATTON CONDUCTED AY SCOTLAT YARD. HU

MIANT POINTS OUT POSSIBLE PIRPOSE ON TRIP IS TOR SUBJICT TO

MAKE GAMIZING COMICOTION IN JAMAICA OR OTHER BRITISE POSSESSIONS

92-7989-74

DocId: 32331253

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CABLE TO LEGAT LONDON

IF GAMBLING BECOMES LEGAL THERE.

IT IS ENOVN TOTRINE DESIRES TO

MARE SUCH A CONNECTION. U

LONDON NOTE LATTEL, MMED ABOTE, MAT BE IDLITICAL WITH FRANK

KATTEL, OPERATOR OF TNTERMATTONAL FINANCIAL ADVISORT SERTICE IN

LUXBOTRG, AND WILL CHOWN TO PARIS OTTICE AS FUGITITE TROM NEW TORI

FEDERAL BENCH FARRANT DASCO ON MATI TRAUD, FRAUD BE WIRE, LID

TIOLATIONS VITALI JIRISDICTION OF SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSTO

IUVASVICATION CONTINUING AND YOUR OFFICE WILL BE TURNISHED

PERTIWENT RESULUS $I CABLE.

NOTE:.

Tourine is well-known hoodlum who visited England in

summer of 1961, and Legat received summary of available information.

on him then.

Tourine returned to England with Bello on 3/6/62, anc

Scotland Yard has requested information on Bello's background and

purpose of this trip.

•is subject of FPC matter in which USA

at "NI has asked. Bureau, to aduise his office of any plans by Koftel

to return to U,s, where warrant can be serued.

He is not a Bureau

fugitive.

New Jork

Miami, Cincinnati,

and WrO furnished aboue

information

NR.

841

ENC.

CK.

APPROVED BY

TYPED BY

92-2989-74

DocId: 32331253

Page 3

---

