# docid-32353344

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10088-10052

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : ACTING CHIEF, SR DIVISION

TO : ASSISTANT DEPUTY DIRECTOR,

: CONTACT OF LEE OSWALD WITH

ASSASSINATION DEPARIMENT

Released under

the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199

Pate: 06-12-2017

A MEMBER OF SOVIET KGB

SUBJECTS

: KGB

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

RESTRICTIONS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

ASSASSINATION DEPARTMENT

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

: 08/11/93

:JEK28 : F1: 1993.08.11.19:09:10:340031 : LABELED PAGE

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10088-10052

NW 53199

DocId: 32353344

Page 1

---

## Page 2

35,4 3-5958

23 November 1963

£X-25550

PINORANDUM FOR: Assistant Deputy Director, Plans

FROM:

SUBJECT:

O Contact of lee

1. According to an Intercepted phone call in Mexico City, Lee OSWAID

was at the Soviet Embassy there on 28 September 1963 and spoke with the

consul, Valerly Vladimirovich KOSTIKOY. This was learned when OSWALD called

the Soviet Embassy on 1 October, Identifying himself by name and speaking

broken Russian, stating the above and asking the guard who answered the phone

whether there was "anything new concerning the telegram to Washington."

The guard checked and then told OSWALD that a request had been sent, but

nothing had as yet been received. (MEXT 6453, 9 October 1953)

The FBI llaison

officer, Mr. Pappich, told me on 23 November that the Bureau has reason to

believe that OSWALD's visit was to get Soviet support for a U.s. passport or

visa natter Lperhaps the new passport mentioned in the press articles.

2.

KOSTKOV de an entaned KGB afficer. He was a case officer in an

operation Waich is evidently sponsored by the KCB'E 13th Department (responsible

for sabotage and assasstratIon) - rais operation, which is controlled by the

FBI under the cryptonym TUMBLEWEED, involved a German-national resident of

Orlahona who was recruited in Eurage, and met this year with KÖStIXOV in Mexico

City and shortly thereafterwith a kn

in New York. The instructions gave

objectives for sabotage addre

Lumina mathe two officers, (pinpointing

left no dout that both of then vere vor in lot the same ke carponent, the

danwir invalvement in the case,

FROHIBITED

3.

have such overt contact with a Soviet Embassy. However, we have top secret

Soviet intelligence documents, describing Military Intelligence doctrine, which

show that very impartant agents can be met in official installations using as

cover for their presence there some sort of open business:

Vice Admiral

Document Number

for FOlA Review on

RECORD COPY

1-538

APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ONI 6 APR 1976

ER IMPDET CL BY _CU.2201

237702-63

201-289248

0002735

183

PAGE

COPY NO.

186

of

HW 53199 DocId:32353344

Page 2

•*:•

---

## Page 3

- 2 -

I.. BEKRINEY, in a top secret lecture to a Soviet Military Intelligence course

at Military-Diplomatic Academy, 1960, sald,

"Case officers who uselas

such non-clandestine meetings within a legal residency should be

restricted to a minimum both as to place and time. Meetings of

this type should be carried out only in exceptional cases with

tested and rellable agents in order to avaid provocation by the

local counterintelligence service against the Soviet installation

being used as corer.

Such meetings are held as a rule in the work

offices of the case officer or of the agent during working hours.

It is necessary that such meetings be conducted naturally, that

they do not attract the attention of outsiders, and that the receipt

and transmittal of intelligence matters, properly camouflaged, be

carried out discreetly. In setting up such meetings, measures gainst

tapping must be taken. One must bear in mind that a meeting with

persons outside official premises and during non-working hours usually

signifies a relationship between the two parties that is above and

beyond official mattersDEPRODICTION

Also,

such contact in official

used by the azents ows

carelessness.

Again Admiral BEKRaNEV

"Some agents, because of

violation of the rules of security througa pecullar personal

rashness, approached our case orricers at places not stipulated

as operational meeting sites,

his Soviet Installation" and discussed personal contact arrangements,

while others still showed up personally at the Soviet Installation In

order to contact the case officer.

4. I called the above connections to the attention of Mr. Pappich by.

phone to his FBI office at 1030 hours on 23 November.

0002786

184

PAGE

COPY NO.

186

WW 53199

DOcId: 32352311

Page 3_

÷20.3

---

## Page 4

BIET

SUBJBCI:

Yalesiy Shudiniorich SostItoy (201-305052)

153030039,

on 15 Gaptezber 1961.

A Fluent Spanish

tinas. Detorg this vernaaa

646dnoa:: 202a0721

viCh TIBUSECHSVis party to the Unitod Statos na an crilcial ot

the dorlat 4in1s5ry Di FOrDiga MIlalro, but se bava Do eccord

ce alo harlag cosa to this countir et that tizo.

serrad di do Intorpiotar at intornational contorences at ladila

=& BarcalOna 1E 1058 and 1959.

In Iato 1959 and Bazzy 1960

Paritinela,

that 0f a 50V10T CaSA OfILCeT HO JORIYT A TOnE a5D BaE In

121100 8 F3I-C0NTIJ13& 201>1+ 22011

This coublo agent'a

Soslot case officar la the buited States haa boen CleE DirlIa

vIch BElkls of the birtoenti Departaont, 5G3 First Chier

Directorato, eccuszlas the ovari position of transistor treinco,

Loño Secrctarlat, Beu Yor% City.

BRYKIN WAS StatIOnE& 1n dow

fron Dacenber 1060 30 JulJ 0f this JeDI.

SANCA ArIIViDE In HOSiCO, KOSCIROY Is Lhorn tO bave travalled

three tinos outside the capitals In March 1953 and agaia for 4bs

11sst two woaka of Soptosber no Monù to 51juada, Ensenado, and

Mericall, ostonaibly lor che purpoas of parchasins cotton.

U.s. Dagartzont of Stato, hovevai, bas soported Chat Suriae

=haS TIIIE KOSTIXOY Ot LOcDi regIesenSatives of Movimento

nidition, according to

tha Jeptoabar trip by

consact vitt

Cubah

a FabrIaTT 1062 visIt to Quito.

0002787

PAGE

COPY NO.

185 0₽

186

NH 53199

DocId: 32353344

Page 1

---

