# docid-32304241

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10285-10253

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-180256-106

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1969

27

MR, INTV, PEDROSO, EMILIO ECHARTE, ASSOC,

INCARCERATION, CUBA, TRAINING, INTEL ACT, ASSA

PLOT, TRA, US, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HW 45937

DocId:32304241 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CL68S10 GO

3/4/98-14

61154780B 5768 520pul

SONG AS SHE YAIN EX

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

2/14/69

9=10

STEP I

DATE

15-15-84

CLASSIFIED DECISIONS ELIA

BY DEPARTMENT REVIEN CONSI

CLASSICITO PIYE: NOV 9

1988

1565Sb

SONTRIOTC

DECLASSIF

Priority)

ADVISS

PRAT 82-1344 Rode SABR-

TO: 450/BIRECTOR; FBI 205188025627

DATE

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK 105-956857789141

ED OFFICES

BEROUTING,

suit

→ SUBi

'T :

CHANGED

ILIO ECHARTE PEDROSO

aka

Luis Marrero,

Luis Velez,

Luis Alberto Marrero Velez

ose:Perez.

AIT.

WHERE

TAINED

IT TEN EXCEPT

ERWISE

IS-CUBA

Class.

FALSELY T

IMING CITIZENSHIP

Reason-

By

MII,

(00: NY)

Date y

Rev

131) C

Title has been changed to include

"PoCHO lathe

lame

dode

assigned to the subject by Cuban Intelligence

beieves

aka Pocho;

(Bu 105-132914

ith:

Bureau (Enca

- Legate

*- 1105-92239) (MIGUEL

Mexico City (Decke

ROCHE. MONROY

105-132914) (RAMON

RODRIGUEZ,

aka Pocho)

5. Miami (105-15880) (Encls.5)(RM)

682

: 2

(3 105-17437) (JOSE LUIS

ZAYAS)

1105-11814

CARLOS FERRET

EDDIE SUAREZ

- New. Haven

SREC-50

(Enc1. 1) (Info) (RM)

3

San Juan

(Encls.3)

10865-180259

07070

16 4105-7247) (RAMON

- RODRIGUEZ

aka Pocho

5

Washington Field (105-00719) (Encis 5) (RM)

-

105-550Q7) (JOSE

LAYAS )

-

134-8195

ADM )

TER FEB IS 1969

1

2

1

-.

New York

New

York

yew York

EDDIE

REZ)

36220

39-395) EMILIO ECHARTE)

65-23342) (RAMON RÓDRIGUEL 2) DU. ILarE

Pocho)

KURAGEE

Lees AIRTEL. 2CCof LHT

Sent

SUD

HW

45937

DocId: 32304241

Page 2

---

## Page 3

05-956854

SECRET

ReNYairtel to Bureau, 1/27/69.

Enclosed

for the Bureau are eight copies of an LHM

dated and captioned

setting forth results of interview

The attached

LHM has been classified "Secret"

nasmuch as it contains admissions of a Cuban Intelligence agent,

liscloses a Cuban Intelligence operatio in the US

view

I thedfuture double agent potential of subject.

It is suggested that the Bureau consider

very limited

distribution of attached LHM at this time until it is more clearly

l how subject's admissions

and his potential as a double

may best be utilized

Is being made by NYo to either INs or secret'

this reason, no dissemination

Service, locally C

Subject was interviewed on 2/5 and 7/69, after

signing rights waiver form on both dates at the Federal

Correctional Instituion, Danbury, Conn., by SAS JOSEPH T.

CORRIGAN and FRANCIS I. LUNDQUIST. Conditions were very

unsatisfactory for interview.

The interviewing agents were

afforded the use of three rooms for the interviews, all of which

were utilized.

However, all rooms had glass panes

on the doors

and, therefore,

the subject and interviewing agents were visible

The interviews were disrupted on 30 to 40 occasions

by different inmates who were curious as to what was happening

and who peered through the glass panes, apparently in an effort:

to identify the subject whom they probably regarded as a "stool

Moreover, fragments of the interviews unquestionably

could be heard by inmates standing and loitering outside the

doors of the interview rooms. This made the subject highly

nervous and interferred with his concentration. (8)(4)

On 2/5/69, the subject was openly hostile and

maintained that he' had already repeated the whole true story

several times to INS, CREC and the FBI. In the interview

conducted 2/5/69, the interviewing agents stressed the small

'discrepancies in subject's previously related accounts in an

SEC

HW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NX 105-95685](4)

SECRET

NYO is of the opinion that information the subject

furnished

on 2/7/69, is essentially true regarding his affiliation

with Cuban G-2 beginning in 1959, his code name,

his assignments to assassinate MANOLO RAY and FELIPE RIVERO:

Unquestionably further details surrounding subject's story have

yet. to be obtained and it may be that he has not yet told the

complete story concerning his intelligence activities in the Uffa

Ifathe original source

Is telling the OTHER 1b, 10, 4

truth, then of course the

not been involved in Cuban G-2 activities since he returned

from Mexico in the Spring of 1967. NYO is inclined to believe

this is the case but found this position extremely difficult to

during the interview and at the same time protect the sources,

and the RCMP.

Of course

there is a possibility, although very remote,

that the subject told the whole truth and now Cuban G-2 is trying

to retallate against the subject for his failure to carry out

ither of the two assassination assignments given to him

1C.

would then mean

been instructed

US Governmen

*hat

It OTHER 1b,

Is now working for Cuban G-2 he has&

expose the subject as a Cuban agent to the

4

REQUESTS OF THE BUREAU

1.

Although the subject was unable to recall the

precise dates he visited the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in the

spring of 1907, lit is noted that the subject terminated his

employment at the Washington Gaurthet it is noted that he was

WDe, on 5/0/67, wher

he failed to report to work.

6/3/67. The Bureau is therefore requested to have Legat Mexico

City ascertain whether or not CIA has photographs of any

unidentified Negroes entering the Cuban Embassy at Mexico City

between 5/8/67 and 6/3/67.

If any are available,

have Legat Mexico

City forward same to NYO for examination

(u)

HW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NYX105-9568

u)

Int sita

I APPROX 1952-1932

Also have Legat Mexico City determine whether or not

NRIQUE (INU), aka/Mickey Whom subject described as a white

age 39

dark comple

subject believes is Vice Consult the Cuban casseto exte

City) answers the

description of ENRIQUE MIGUEL, CICARD LABRADA,

3rd Secretary - Consul at

the Cuban Embassy Mexico City:

If

SO, CICARD LABRADA should be included in the Cuban Intelligence

Album.s If a photograph of CICARD LABRADA is available, it should/

be forwarded

to NYO

3. NYO is well aware of the Bureau's position with

regard to polygraph testing and appreciates the Bureau's

reluctance to rely upon its use in the average case. However,

the subject of this case became affiliated with Cuban G-2 soon

after it was formed in 1959, he was afforded extensive training

and he entered the US under

carrying $4,000 given to him by Cuban G-2 to carry out the

assassination of MANOLO RAY, an anti-Castro leader in Puerto Rico.

Subject has also admitted travelling to Mexico City in 1967 and

then receiving from Cuban G-2 the assignment to assassinate

FELIPE RIVERO, another anti-Castro leader. Obviously this is a

very unusual case with numerous ramifications, and NYO feels

every ayailable tool should be employed to resolve the Securit

Ispects Of this case which may very well involve other Cubar

Intelligence agents whose identities are still unknown.

other Cuban agents are not involved then this should be determined

with certainty

Althoägh subject has disclosed considerable information

concerning his own affilialtion with Cuban G-2 he professes not

to know other Cuban agents currently involved in activities in

the US for the Cuban Government.

However, there is a strong

indication that the subject, if!not ringleader, may well be a

member of a Cuban Intelligençe apparatus that

finances itself

through the sale of narcotics plen

$

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241 Page 5

---

## Page 6

12(05-9568510814)

SECRET

Therefore, NYO requests the Bureau to authorize a

polygraph test for subject and asks that the most serious

consideration be given this request. If approved, NYO would

attempt to obtain more favorable circumstances for the

polygraph test.

This might result in subject's disclosure of

additional vital and valuable information concerning current

Cuban Intelligence activities in the US and the insidious

distribution

narcotics in the US by agents of the Cuban

Governmente

he polygraph test supports subject's dentalthat

he has been involved in intelligence

activities in the US since

his return from Mexico City in 1967,Xthen it will indicate

las furnished false

Information and may in fact

still be jan agent öf Cuban G-2 (S

4. The Bureau is also requested to weigh the

propaganda value that would result in

public disclosure of subject's

being specially trained by Cuban G-2 and being dispatched to

this country as an assassin., Even the Mexican Government might

regard the Castrò Government in a different light if it were

disclosed in the press that the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City

Involved in Illegal cuban Intelligence activities: (MARI

5. A check of Bureau indices on the following is

requested:

A. "POCHO," subject'sacode name in Cuban Intelligence

OLGA/ PEREZ, VALLE, Campanario #22

Cuba, who was subject's/mistressfand mail drop. 5 1902

Havana,

C. & DANILO CORON CANALEJO, subject's friend in Cuba

a Cuban G-2 agent in either US or Puerto Riço.

the Barber" who subject indicated may Utts)

The Bureau's

attention 'is invited to "Tito"

mentioned

NYairtel to the

. Bureau

COSP-

CUBA" (Bureau 65-67951)

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241 Page 6

---

## Page 7

NY 105-95685/443(4)

LEADS:

MIAMI

BECRET

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

photographsdof other refugegs

• Determine whether or not identification/and

who; arrived aboard the

"Leda"

at Miami, fia.,

on 2/26/64 with the subject can be obtaine

through CREC records.

It so, -forward same to

arabited to re subject for future intervie to es SM

of Cuban G-2 agent

Check "Tito the Barber"

indices and sources for

' possible identification

Attention is invited to

the Bureau

Miami, 1/31/66, captioned|

subject's associate EDDIE SUAREZ

Is a barben

Check indices,

subject's code name "POCHO"

OLGA PEREZ VALLE, Campanario #22,

subject's friend, DANILO CORON CANALEJO!

Havana

suba, anc

4. Attention is invited to "

mentioned

Mairtel to Bureau, 2/Nai, captioned "FOXTROT

ESP-CUBA. "

throughout

Consider possibility

may be identical with

wife of JOSE

(DES

NEW HAVEN

One information copy is designated for the NH office

inasmuch as subject is incarcerated at FCI, Danbury, Conn. (S)(4)

SAN JUAN

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

For the information of SJ, this case has been under

investigation since April, 1968, when a CIA source disclosed he l

been approached by the subject

to work for Cuban Intelligence,

"Subject was arrested by Buagents at NY, NY, on 9/12/68, and charged

with falsely claiming citizenship. He is presently serving a term

(u)

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 7

---

## Page 8

N7105-95685₴

(S(4)

SEGRET

of 18 months at the FCI, Danbury, Conn:

He has also been

convicted on a narcotics charge in connection with an arrest

made by the NYCPD on 6/3/67, and has been sentenced on this

charge to serve 2 - 4 years

which will have to berserved after

completion of his

federal sentence.

The subject was born

160, lbs.,

1. Determine whether or not it is feasible to check

registration cards of Holiday Inn Motel and the San Geronimo Hotel,

both located at San Juan, for confirmation of subject's statement

that he and his wife stayed at both places

the Summer of

1967, although specific dates are unknown.

Advise the NYO whether or not any information

was received from sources during the period 2/64 - 7/64, regarding

an assassination plot against MANOLO RAY and which information

and employed in that period so that NYO will be able to question

M) :

Also check indices on all

names utilized by subject in his activities & (aVM)

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

1. Ascertain whether or not CIA tested

3)

originall

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

outside US, inasmuch as additiona

Information may be obtained from

subject when again interviewed.

Ta van

It will be noted

that subject stated on 2/7/09, that

concerning his knowledge of the subject* WFO is requested to

advise NYO specifically how they prefer this to be handled during

next interview of subject. & Lo

CRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NX5405-95685765(4)

SECRET

Check: Central INS for record on FILIPO (or FELIPE)

GARCIA described by subject as a white Cuban male,

about age 35,

5'6" -5'7"

, 160 lbs., with curly hair, receding at the temples.

According to subject GARCIA must have entered the US subsequent

to 1962.

Note that subject claims GARCIA is an old acquaintance

from Cuba whom he encountered at NY, NY, on 6/3/67, the day subject

was arrested by NYCPD on a narcotics charge.

4.

Determine whether or not telephone toll charges are

check for confirmation of telephone

RODRIGUEZ

SEAN 5, preparation for

his trip to Mexico Ci

5.

Subject states

• he was

accompanied on his trip to

Mexico City by one EDDIE YURI (ph) (subject states he never knew

how

to spell the surname)who in early 1967 resided at 1823 Lamont

Sto, Woe.

Attempt to identify YURI and trace present whereabouts

SO

'that he can be interviewed conc

erning his knowledge of subject's

trip to Mexico City

Check

for information ayailable on subject's

code name

"POCHO," on subject's mistress and mail drop, OLGA PEREZES

VALLE, Campanario #22, Apt. 17, Havana, Cuba,

sub

associatéon in Cuba, DANILO CORON CANALEJO.

Check WFO indiceston the name "POCHO" as well as

checking indices and Cuban sources for identification of Cuban G-2

"Tito the Barber.

Determine whether

ever been known by

the nickname

"Tito."6

pot EDDIE SUAREZ

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

1.

Will reinterview subject after Bureau and WFO respond

to requests made herein. In next interview of subject detail.

will be developed regarding the code and radio instruction subjects

received Wfurther details regarding' under what name and where:

subject lived in Puerto Rico when he had MANOLO RAY under

surveillance; further details regarding subject's border crossing

into Mexico and where he lived in Mexico,

and further details

regarding subject's trip to Canadge

55) ) 05741

ECRET

HW

45937 DocId: 32304241 Page 9

---

## Page 10

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

SECRET

UNTTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREA SECRET

INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

February 14, 1969

0-8-87

CLASSIFLED BY aRIANA

DECLASSIF

DR

Appen

(subj

# 21h3L

Classified by

Emilio Echarte Pedroso

Declassity ant 02017. 5/0134

toternal Security - Cuba (ful

Falsely Claiming Citizenship

10/11 994 ок

It is to be noted that on September 12, 1968, the

subject was confronted by Special Agents (SAS) ofthe Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) upon his arrival at Kennedy

International Airport on a flight from Canada.

The subject,

under questioning by the SAS of the FBI, claimed he was a

4 16-89

citizen of the United States (US). Subject was then arrested

-T99/0158925

CLASSIFIED DECISIONS PINALIZED

15650РK4

1988

BY DEPARTHENT REVIEW COMMITTEE (DRO)

for violation of Title 18,

in that he falsely

a Cuban national.

- me us on hop hen, an ace, he not o

On November 15, 1968, Assistant United States

Attorney (AUSA) Frank Natoli,

Eastern District of New York

(EDNY, advised that the subject waived indictment and pleaded

775-8995 189

guilty to a one count

nformation on October 24, 1968, before

Judge George Rosling.

On January 16, 1969, AUSA Frank Natoli advised that the

DATENDY 9

subject was sentenced that date by

Judge Leo F. Rayfield, to

18 months under Section 4208 (a) (2), Title 18, USC. (SYLL

Records at Federal Detention Headquarters, New York,

to the Federal Correctional

Connecticut, on January 29, 1969.0

The subject was personally contacted at ECI, Danbury,

Connecticut, by SAS Francis I. Lundquist and Joseph T. Corrigan

on February 5 and 7,

1969,

which occasions the following

information was developed.

Copy tolNSA (P- 2) atin lemon hang (s)

136701

AC ALL INFORMATION CONTAFNED

ND slip for

"HITTN TS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

action

Info

ate_

4/4/3

Die of Neviey

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

contatas

rascavendations

conclusions

the property

FBI and,1,5

loured to your

APPROPRXATE ACENCTEgIOY:

and 10s

contents are

AND FIELD OFFICES +01

to be distributed outalas

ADVISED BY

SLIP(S) OF

DATE

05-

1802560

ENCLOSUN SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDES FROM

AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING/

AND

DECLASSIFICATION/

4)

106

Class. & Ext! By

Reason-FCIH

te of Revie:

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241

Page 10

---

## Page 11

_50.302 (Rov: 1-15-61)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG/TION

SECRET

Date

2/12/69

On February 7, 1969, EMILIO ECHIRTE PEDROSO read and

signed

a rights aiver

form printed in Spish. He was then

interviewed in English by SAS FRANCIS I. SUNDQUIST and JOSEPT T.

CORRIGAN who identified themselves to him as Special Agents of

the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), On that occasion he

furnished the following infornation:

Hun about July, 1955, ECHARTE joined the July 26th

Movement in Cuba,

For about two years he was active in printing

and distributing ro-Castro propaganda 25) M)

participating in street

aisturbances conducted by the Movement

In about 1957, ECHARTE was

trained in the use of

incendiaries ly the

July 26th Movement and was involved in acts of

sabotage in Cuba stone of

ECHARTE's associates in the Movement

NaS SEGUNDO PERE'

nei hborhood as

who had lived ang been raisegain the same

eld a positior

of Leadership in the upper echelon of

the july 26th Movenent and

later on became

prominent

referred

suben Intelligence (hereinafters)

in the new goverment but vi,

was somewhat questionable.

/

(S)

formation of about 25 groups ofaabout 10 men

were to function directly under

SIGUNDO PEREZ.

ECHART

recommended

SEGUNDO PEREZ, and RODRIGUIZ

nen being forme

one of his associates me

referred to as RODRIGUEZ

ecame leader

one of the 25

RODRIGUIE?

is still in Cuban

*СИВАУ

41

0n. 2/7/69

afF CI, Danbury, Conn

SA FRANCIS I. LUNDQUIST

and

bY SA JOSEPH T. CORRIGAN/jec

This document contoins neither recommendations nor conclusions

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

Fil. # NXXI05-9558571

(un

Dale dictaled.

2/12/69

FBl. It is the property of the FBl and is looned to your agency:

- 3-

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241 Page 11

---

## Page 12

17705-9568541

"SECRET

Land is now

assistant.

"Red Beard.

SO EUNUES PIMIR LOSANS

commonly known

ECHARTE was assigned to the Cuban "White House Police"

Then one day in

about August, 1959, ECHARTE encountered some friends in Manolo's

lailor shop locaced at Gloria and Angeles, Havana, Cuba. In the

course of conversation several comments

were made

about the pistol

which ECHARTE was carrying.

As a result, ECHARTE withdrew his

pistol which he believed to be unloaded, pointed it at CONSUELO

(INU) who was present, and pulled the trigger. However, there

was a bullet in the chamber, the gun fires and CONSUELO

mortally wounded...

superior, SANTIAL CHARTE ran from the sop and confronted

sor the accident In a recent be felt, was

irectly responsibl

CHARTE had loaned

his pistol to FRAYLE because FRAYLE was reluctant to carry a

machine gun, and FRAYLE had failed to completely unload the

weapon when he returned it to EChARte although he had indicated

tO ECHARTE that he had done sor

At this point ECHARTE explained that SEGUNDO PEREZ

was not completey emotionally stable and at periods of time

became mentally unbalanced.

It was about this time SEGUNDO PEREZ

was suffering

one of these periods and FRAYLE was

replacing him.

Nevertheless, ECHARTE was found guilty on a charge of

culpable homicid and was sentenced to sir years imprisonment.

He was incarceraled at Principe Prison in Havana, Cubas Where

he became acquairited with PEDRO SANTIESTESAN, a policical prisoner.

SANTIESTEBAN repeatedly discussed politics with ECHARTE at Princice

and ECHARTE realized that there was

CHART St Principe

opposition to the Castro regime. DiACS tO SANTIDSTIAN'S

released

After CHARTE had served 15 months of his term, he was

brother of SECUNNO

in early 1961 through the personal efforts of RAMON PEREZ,

PEDRO SANTIESTEBAN had been released

prior to this.CK

-4_

SECRET!

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 12

---

## Page 13

3:

NY 205-95685% 45(4)

• SECRET

shad greatly increased

ECHARTE was relessed, RODE IGUEZ

whose authorityl

pproachec

then spent about one or two months making money

one efused ECHARI:

the streets

any way he could.

Then in about March, 1901,

or soon thereafter,

ECHARTE waS given employment as

swlichboard operators in the office

of the Commandante at the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Commerce, locted

at Infante #23, Havana, Cuba.

RAMIRO VAIDES was

responsible

assigning ECHARTE to this position and he did so upon request

from SEGUNDO PERIZE, ECHARTE had no intelligence responsibilities

in this position.

After a year

or slightly more in this position, ECHARTE

was caught dealing in money exchange on the black market and was

again arrested.

His employment at the Cuban Ministry of Foreign

Commerce

terninated.

ECHARTE posted $500 bond and after he

everal weeks, he personally contacted

ECHARTE

[SCRODRICURZ

stated he had observed that since 1959

had besome

„sophisticatea, aressed better, reflecter

confidence andkhad become very secretive. about nis

duties*

ECHARTE concluded

more

authorityi

^ Cuban Gi

and the pentate hit onions)

and

Sand that possibly he had

travelied

abroad

tha

aut

Concerned

Cuban C-2 activities broad

de controntec

RODRIGUE

Ich these

observations and although

STRODRICU

avoided discussing his area of responsibility in

Cuban G

he nevertheless

qwledged is duties involved

cuban

G

activityabroad

(3) RoDRIGunZ in turn observed that ECHARTE had been

involved

in two incidents while

employed by the government

that

incidents such as these created

a poor imagisht the government

in the eyes of the Cuban people.

RODRIGUENA

warned ECHARTE thatl

if he continued his ways, he would have more and more trouble

with the Cuban Government and

suggested that

JenARio conside,

leaving Cuba.

ECHARTE agreed with RODRIGUIZ 2nd indicated

ne woula be willing

oco perform any service abroad needed by

the

Cuban Government:

RODRIGUEZ conceded thet ECHARTE could be

SE

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 13

---

## Page 14

4.

SECRET

NY 7105-95685*

A

statement was drawn and RODRIGU

Thad ECHARTE sign

Essentially it constituted as

to the effect that

ECHARTE agreed

never to disclose information about the training

he was to then se afforded and never to

sclose any official

assignment he received from Cuban G-2

ECHARTE was then instructed

give the appearance of being unemployed and to appear as

then instructed foot

that he was to continue to

he were making his living by his wits or the street dealing in

jewelry and any other way possible. Horever, his training was to

commence immediately.: He was cold to report alone to a certain

address, now unrecalled, which wasthear the zooßen Havana.

When

he arrived there, he was shown

to

where he encountered a Chinese Cuban

then pasement of the building,

his

name, but merely said he was to

• be NCHANTE's instructor

This

approximately

Cinese Cuban Instructor was about age

31

518"

tall, about t

pounds, muscularly built anc

had a slightly deformed

Shich caused him ta

a limpos he irstructor indicate

that his left leg had been injured

by a severe bicw in the hin area

nerves and muscles of the lega

'(she manently damaged the

ECHANTE was instructed

this individual in the art cf

fighting and defending hinself with his hands and

feet, the use

of a knife in hand to hand combat, and she use of the garrote.

ECHARTE

was afforded this training three to four hours daily for

a period of about two months.

Purposely ECHARTE was to be seen

on the streets at various hours during the day to create the

conducted at a house located

Avenue & Mirama:, Havana, Cuba.

by a pro-castro

Cuban who hau been repatr late)

the United

States, but never learned the owner's name.

ECHARTE ascertained that Cuba, G-? Trequently changed

the location where instruction was

conducted.

Whenever an

additional loention or a change of beation was required, a Cubar:

G-2 agent wouli scout for a suitable nouse, approach

owner

and simply inform him that the facilities were needed temporariry.

The owner was obliged to comply and make the basement or

other place available even though the owner had no. connection

whatsoever with'

Cuban G-2 or the Cuban Government. The owner

simply tol

that certain individuals, never identified by

name, would use the facilities ai certain hours.

The trainee

instructor never identified themselves to

the household

personnel

of their Intelligence personne

Cuban d-artook this precaution to prevent identification

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241

Page 14

---

## Page 15

5.

705-95685 44(4)

" SECRET

ECHARTE

Upon

completion of the aforemertioned training,

¿ to a house located in the vicinity

told to Irs venue,] Miramar, Havana, Cuba, which

Here ECHARTE was afforded

documents, developing film, technicali

I photography, codes; the preparation.

chamfering,

age 21, who was a college student,

very slightly built

and

weighed about 125 pounds.

Here again

the training was

furnished only two to four hours daily, not necessarily on

consecutive days, and the specific hours varied from day to day:

There was no set

schedule followed every week.

When ECHARTE's

instruction

was completed for the day,

he woud then be told

what day he

should next report and the

hour to be there.

ECHARTE

said this was done intentionally so that ECHARTE's daily

did not fall into a set pattern that couto be trace

1/50

ECHARJE was told to prepare his secret ink by

mixing

lemon juice and water, or salt and water

i any other acid

with water,

and

te his message with the prepared solutior

5) He was instructed thatkafter.

completec

Hi over

the message he vas to completely rub the paper smoot

in the vertical direction as well

of the paper.

designated drop i ven to h

-7-

SECRET:

Sa

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 15

---

## Page 16

NX$105-9568

SECRET

ECHAITE's third and

slarge hacienda

I last phase of training was

assembly and

and how ti

Here again

CHARTE never learned the name-of chis inst

nly location where ECHARTY Coserved otherg indergoing the same

This was the

ECHARTExobserved four to six others, (52

whogappeared to be Cubans, each being trained by a separate

instructor.

The trainees

never came in contact or very close

view of each other and ECHARTE

others who were being trained

Cre the identity of the

ECHARTE believesothers were probably trained at the l

of his training: but they

at later or earlier hours than he reported

kept the trainees from learning the idensity of each other

One day in the course of this training ECHARTE visited

RODRIGUEZ at his office..

ECHARTE entered RODRIGUEZ Spere was another man present.

turned to the other individual and

"Here's one of the men

IWant you to neet."

and introduced ECHARTE

by name to the other individual who was introduced as MARCOS

BRAVoS) on looking back ECHARTE feels quite certain that he wag,

being craned to be a Guerrilla fighterlin Latin Americak

ECHARTE had been in crairing about six

months,

Leader of

an anti-Castro organization, headquartered in

causing the Government of Cuba (GOC) too much troubte

and trat

FIDEL CASTRO had

ordered Cuban G-2 to

and give him the

assignment of assassinating MANOLO RAY.

select the best man available

said he considered CHARTE the best man and was giving

this assignment to him

SEE

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 16

---

## Page 17

7.

NY$105-95685

SECRET

to locate

[RODRIU instructed SCHARTE to purchase a boat and

24 people who wanted to escape from Cuba and to

plan an

escape with these individuals. ECHARTE was to create

ne impression

that it

s a legitimate attempt to escape from

cuba although RODRIGUEZ Sromised ECHARTE that Cuban G-2 woul

make the necessary arrangements wiüh coastal patrols, at the

selected

départure point, so that no unfavorade incident would

occur.

The money to purchase the boat was furnished to ECHARTE

by Cuban G-2 and ECHARTE waS

assigned the code name "POCHO

was

_individuals ECHARTE

approached

"escape

Cus

with him.

courageous

individual and

he expressed

However, [coRone not a very (4J

fears as

consequenges in the

the escape was thwarted.

order_to

convince CORON

sihat he shoud go along,

that the escape

had the blessing

of Cuban G-2 and

coastal guards would be removed

from the point of

departure

at the appropriate hour of escape

and that safety was assured

ECHAR E andAtoRonten

set out to find and purchase

<u]

a suitable crafi.

They were not immediately able to locate

such a boat and

after several

searching,

irritated.

just the boat we need

At this point CoRonAtated "Iomorrow there vali be (4]

The following dey CORonayertised in the newspaper.

You'll see.

came running to ECHARTE waving

the (4]

newspaper saying,

told you.

ere 1s Jus

the boat.

felt that possibly CORON

Sudden t-2 and that he knew beforehand that that particular

las also working for (4J

advertisement would appear in the paper.

ECHARTE and CORoNwent Cu]

to see the fisherman who advertised the boat and again ECHARTE

had the feeling that the fisherman who was offering the boat for

sale was also either verda for on tekie ine (8)

Cuban G-2.

The boat, "Leda"

com

was then purchased.

ECHARIE aNd CORON

began selecting their companions

for an escape by sea.

Some of the individuals approached were

personal friends and others were referred by friends.

To. give

the escape plan a legitimate aura,

all individuals approached

to participate in the escape were

told that they would have to pa

Ku)

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SE

8

SECRET

NY 8105-956851

their proportionate expenses for the trip to cover the cost

At that time ECHARTE was acquainted with one JOSE

ARRANGACIA who had recently escaped from prison. ECHARTE

Included ARRANGACIA in the planned escape begeuse

helped

give a legitimate appearance to the escape

RODRIGUEZ

In one of ECHARTE's last conversations wif

before the departure took place RODRIGUEZ Sssured

ECHARTE that in the event he needed

to

message to one of his agents

such as "Tito the barber" to assist

ECHARTE in

every way possible.

The implication was that "Tito

the barber" was a Cuban G-2 agent located in either the United

States or Puerto Rico.

ECHARTH

Les knowledge of the full

identity of "Tito the barbet?

RoDRIGUn Sersonally

furnished ECHARTE $4,000 in

United States currency, just prior

to ECHARTE's departure from

Cuba, to cover ECHARIE's services

and

expenses on this assignment

ECHARTE said he arrived in the United Stetes wiüh $5,000

Staies currency of which $1,000 was his cun money. 18

When the day of depar

cleared of guards A DANILO CORONE

departure by insisting upon driving into the countryside to pick

• up a Chinese millionaire who, according locoRONWhad a million cu

dollars banked in the United

States and was willing to pay

heavily upon safe arrival in the United

•fitates.

When CORON 8) [U)

returned to the departure point, it was rark and his car lights

were apparently spotted by a peasant.

by the peasant and they captured CORON and others on the beach CU

and fired their guns at the boat.

ECHARE fled in the boat with

about 10 others.

ECHARTE does not know for certain whether other

individuals

boat were Cuban G-2 agents but thinks it

possible.

At that particular time ORLANDO PANTOJA was Chief of

the Coastal Defenses.

ECHARTE feared that if PANTOJA or one of

he would balieva

guns at ECHARTE's craft or send boats

out; to capture it.

Consequently, ECHARTE took a diversionary course out to sea

(v)

-10-

SECRET

SI

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 18

---

## Page 19

SE

9.'

SECRET:

NX9105-956854(4)

ECHARTE arrived

at Miami, Florica, with the assistance

of the United States Coast Guard (USCG) in late February,

1964,

exact date unrecalled.

He said that his preparations for the

escape, including purchase of the boat and organizing the escape

group,

had taken about six or eight weeks time after he completed

his training.

Upon arrival at Miani, ECHARTE telephoned

RODRIGUEZ Sand told him of his safe arrival. ECHARTE then

proceeded alone to Puerto Rico and located the residence of

MANOLO RAY.

He placed RAY under surveillance in order to

He identified her as OLGA PEREZ VALLE and said she resided at

Campanario #22,

apartment 17, Havana, Cuba. ECHARTE had

RODRIGUEZ'S EC

Cion and that everything was progressing satisiactorily.

ECHARTE

stated he soon learned after his arrival in the United States.

therefore,

he

felt Becret inks] end use of the code were

ECHARTE

estimated that he had remained in Puerto Rico

approximately 25 days and

that this involved a lapse of period

of about three - four months from the time he had received the

assignment to assassinate RAY.

ECHARTE said he concluded that

circumstances hao changed and

that RAY was no longer a serious

threat to the Cuban Government, and that to murder hin would be an

He said that

added that even prior to the time berore he left Cuba, he contemplat-

ed not fulfilling this mission but merely accepting the assignment

as a means of getting. out of Cuba.

He also stated that after he

observed RAY with his two children he felt that assassinating him

would be absolutely brutal and that his heart softened for

RA

-11-

GORET

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 19

---

## Page 20

10.

112205-9568719041

SECRET

ECHARE said that he had no contact whatsoever with

Cuban G-2 for ahout two years thereafter.

concerned

that his mother,

own failure to carry out this mission. Therefore, in about the

summer or fall of 1966 he informed his mother, wh

over the

telephone with her, to alert RODRICUEZato expect :

elepnonergalt Irom nui

Soon thereafter ECHARTE contacted

RODRIGUEZ by telephone and went into considerable explanatio

as to why he felt the assassination of MANOLO RAY had been

cho he go to and rene 100

G-2 agent "JACOBO" in Mexico City. RODRIGUEZ<*old ECHAKTE to make

the necêssary arrangements to proceed to Mexico City and to let

him know when he found it possible to mase the trip.

ECHARTE said

that a period of six months elapsed before he found it possible

to travel to Mesico but that in this period he maintained contact

telephone calls

with on telephone on telephone vaca

He said that he made these

over his own telephone wich was installed at

1661 Park Road, Washington, D.C.

ECHARTE said that he recalled

"JACOBO"

as being a Cuban G-2 agent but he was unable to furnisr

the full name oi

"JACÓBO," "He described "JACOBO" as a whi.

male,

about age 34, 5:9", 170 pounds, with

straight black hair

ECHARTE arrived in Mexico City in about the Spring

of 1967 and went directly to the Cuban Enbassy there.

He was

told that "JACOBO" had been there but had left. ECHARTE was then

"Vice Consul" at the Cuban

"MICKEY" ased to be-

a bodyguara to MANGELN INETRO LOSADA A 150

known as Red Beara. ()He described

about age 30-32: 5'5",

les pounds, dark gomplexion

MICKIE SE

said he had instructions

from G-2

headparters to give ECHARTE

the assignment of assassineting FELIPE

RIVERO, Leader o Che

Cuban Nationalisü Movement, an

anti-Castro organization.

ENCARTE stated that he travelled

to Mexico City in his own

accompanied by his wife, FIDELIN

his daughter,

neighbor named

He said that YURI used

at 1823 Lamont street, Washington, D.C.:

since moved

to Virginia and he no longer knows

address.

He added unat

YURI waS

a United States citizen,

was hever involved in Cuban

political matte

and only accompan:

himlas a friend to

Mexico City

XMEXICO

VECHARTE,

AS (4)

(4)

1200)

-12-

SECRET

NW 45937 DocId: 32304241

Page 20

---

## Page 21

7.4

SE

NX 105-956853

SECRET

Fidentify himself to the Canadian polic

chortles

Due

to this confrontation

Malcided that h

should try to make his way to Spain through Mexico.

result he booked passage for his wife, child and himself, on

the same day, to New York from Montreal, with the intention

of then proceeding to New Orleans, Louisiona. He believed

would be

able to

secure a car in New Orleans

across the United States border to Mexico..

plane landed at New York, New York, he wai confronted by agents

of the FBI.

He identified himself

to then as LUIS MARRERO,

a Puerto Rican,

and claimed he was a citiven of the

United

States.. He was then arrested by the FBI agents.

ECHARTE was questioned concerning his relationship

with CARLOS FERRET:

He said that he knows FERRET

as a good

719

friend from coube.:

but that FERRET now sells cars in Miami and

he sees him only infrequently.

He asserted

that to the best

of his knowledge FERRET has never been affiliated with Cuban

G

RECHARD: was

asked if he knew anyone presently in

the United Staten who had ever been affinitca with Cuban G-?

and he responied that the only individue?

gnown to him in that

category was

S) He said

Is a, white Cuban,

about age 34,

married and

resides in

He said that wen he was acquainte

was then a Lieutenant in Cuban G?

was acon a shanti

the arca

that

1852, 150 a

.C.

friend of SEGUNDU.

PEREZ and MANUEL RODRIGUEL

'SLOANE SHe said he

doubted that,

ould know him (ECHARte as a member oi

Cuban G-2. S) ECHIRTE was again questioned as to whether or not

he knew anyone who had fled Cuba with him in the boat "leda"

He repeated that he would have no way

of knowing for certain but that it was quite possible Cuban G-2

might have attempted to infiltrate other agents into the United

States in the sane planned escape.

He said that the individual

he would most likely suspect as

Cuban G-2 agent jamong those

a Negro male

who arrived with him in the United stateither one of whom he

who was accompanied by a white

was personally acquainted with

OTHER 1B,1C

- 16:-

SECRET

HW 45937 DocId:32304241 Page 21

---

