# docid-32298592

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10368

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-291

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/21/1968

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SHF, RES, EMPLOYMENT, RCF, ARREST, EPSTEIN, ISRAEL,

TRA, ABROAD, FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS, TESUR, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32298592

Page 1

• 76

---

## Page 2

Released inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1082 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 109-11.8

UNITED STATES GO INMENT

Memorandum

SECRED

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235)

DATE: 6/21/68

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479)

SUBJECT:

SUSAN HEILIGMAN

FRANK

IS-CH

(00 :NEW YORK)

11/a3/9o

Classis

bedlassify on:

PEACEC

20 DAY PROGRESS LETTER

E1G)

CLASSIFIED BY 56685

ON: 25X

IFY

DECLASSI

JFK) 6/59/98

Re report of SA

DANIEL A. FLYNN, 3/1/68; NYlet,

6/12/68.

Residence and Employment

The subject continues to reside at Apartment 30, 110

Christopher Street

NY, with her husband RICHARD C. FRANA.

she continues to

free-lance writer peratsigfrom her re-

sidence.

AII. INFORMAZION CONTATNET

ENGE IN TS LEDIASSIFIED

EXCOU'I THINE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Activitios in the Last 90 Days

NY 4047-S* has advised that the subject continues

her close

association with JAMES and ANN LEE of the "China

Daily News"

and with IRA GOLLOBIN.

A physical surveillance of the subject on 3/15/60,

revealed thatxthe subject spent a little less than two hours

in the office of the Romanian Embagsy,

Attache, 95 Madison Avenue, NY, NYM

Ruffice of the commercial

and

NY 4047-54 advised that the sinlect, InA GOrLOBIN,

JAMES and ANN LEt are quite upset over the reports that

ISRAELYEPSTEIN and his wfe were arrested by the Chinese and

charged with espionage.

She is also quite

concerned about

newspaper reports stating that SIDNEY RITTENBERG had been

purged from a position with Radio Peking.

3392355

291

-Bureau (RM)

-New York

DEG- 60

DAF :mep

(3)

25 JUN 25 1968

SEC

57 JUL 2 1968

SECRET

148

-O1-108

Buy U:S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32298592

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released mder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREU

NY 100-42479

ISRAEL EPSTEIN is reported to be closely associated

with TANG Ming-chao the founder of the

"China Daily News"

and

also a contact of the subject. TANG has been reported to be a

head of political intelligence in English speaking countries

for the Chinese Communists.

The subject, in discussing the arrest of EPSTEIN

and the purging of RITTENBERG, has stated that she tends to

discredit the stories but she

has also tended to take the

Chinese Communists position by stating that some people have

trouble keeping the right line.

This is another indication

of the subject's dedication and loyalty to the Chinese

Communists.

It would appear that the subject's impending

trip

to London is not a vacation trip because she

is traveling a-

long. It is to be noted that in all the subject's trips

abroad she has always stopped in London.

It would appear from the above that if the subject

has

any communication with the Chinese Communists this com-

munication is through London,

England.

Proposed Future Investigation

Because of the connection between

the subject and

person or persons unknown in London, England, it is felt that

coverage should be given to her activities while in London.

The NYO by relet of 6/12/68, has requested the Bureau

to seek the cooperation of the British Security Service in

giving coverage to the subject's activities in London. (3)

The NYO is remaining alert for information furnished

by NY 4047-S* which would reveal the identity of contacts

of the subject who could be developed as informants in this

matter.

As the subject becomes more active in the SDS it

is felt that informants, active in this organization, can be

targeted against her.

-3 -

SECRET

}

DocId: 32298592 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 late).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

a person who also" has been'

identified as a contact of TANG

Iing-chao. It is hoped that in establishing a relationshi

etween HUBERMAI

and PENNAN

PENMAMmay be able to penetrate

the HUBERMAN-FRANK group. (s)

stan the romanian ten one been at erted

All significant information hase been

furnished to

the Bureau and non-significant information has been furnished

to the SAC aby memo.

-4 -

SECRET

595-038

DocId: 32298592

Page 4

---

