# docid-32357889

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10106-10724

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# : NW

53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

TO : MEMORANDUM NO. 9

: MEMORANDUM NO. 9 - SUBJECT: GARRISON AND THE KENNEDY

DATE: 06/05/1968

PAGES

7

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

BELLI M

BECKHAM T

WOOD W

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/22/04

COMMENTS

JFK42: F11: 20040112-1033589

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10106-10724

NH 53294

DocId: 32357889

Page

1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

510490

MEMORANDUA NO. 9

SUBJECT: Gairlochand the Kennedy Assaseination

• 1. SUMMARY

Talo monorandu provides belormation Aboat twere jersong

who have not voen liated provously la this Barlos, who are farolred

ln iDo Cierrison case, and mho bare or have clalied to lavo a conceciles

alen the Central Inielligence Agency, Ora, William Clarens WOOD,

is a former Atall employee.

I. PERSONNEL

1. Thongs Edward BECKHAM fake Mari EVANS)

A. GARALON ENDPODaed BECISHAM 30 iCESIDes 1168

and an Oriaha, Nebrasta, judge ardered bin to rolars to

Lontatana 30 JaGuary 1966, BECKHAM dayo he belosd Serglo

ARCAURA Galth saloo lunda for Cuban revoluttonary jorced da

WAr Drease In 19S2. BECRHAY iS es entertainer-svengellat

who 1s0s the sisge name ol Mark EvAls.

?. Oh 3 JanuarY 1965 BECKMAN allegedly Bold David

LENIS of Now Orleano Rathe, BECKMAN, And & JIa LNU

"¡Tom Grata" ape agente di the cia.

.. RID IZO DO SeCURE AÍ BECRNAM.

.c.

=. BEllIwad a delense alsorney lor Joes aubY.

1. Ji: GARRISON Ras a sechend guces o! BEthl wban

CARRISON selled daa Fraacioco la Octobes 196%.

-SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from anematic

donagraulng and

declasstilcatten

MH 53291 DocId: 323578891

Pat

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

BELiI cao reportedly dovolred la illicit drag

TAllE CHIS MOTILE ELOWITZ M 1753. ELOWITZ DIO&

SUBJECTEÉ COROEI O LICEY LUCLANO.

1. 5. Losald Dean BOHNING (291-813769)

1. BONNING ls the Latla American Editor os the

Via il lierald. He sas granted a PCSA On 21 Aagass 1907

and a CSA on 11 November 1967. He du AMCARBON-3.

a. BOANINO OperIEd de was contacted on 23 March 1968

ny a Kinston SMITH who cleimod la be Abrestigating Rolando

MASTERRER IDE JIA GARRISON.

N$. COLOnElL. RODErE CASTORR

COl. CASTORR allogedy mer with Jack MUAy,

Boisert !'ERMIN, Obd othera la Dallas la 1962 89 plan a Cuban

mangaling operation. CASTORR de aleo allegedly an zanuctate

ol General Edela A. WALKER. Jeschim JOESTEN and etbers

hare broadly hinted Rat CASTORR la andociated with ClA.

1. Tuste do no record a agency associalloa titi

CASTORR. An z5l seport ed 13 Warch 1709 seported that

CASIORA had lunch tith Viktor Irasorich MIRONOY (201-7319÷9).

a KGB pillos? at le forler Erabassy In Washington.

3. LLOydI. COBB É

=. Aa "geridont of the Mer Crleana Irade Conter.

COBS wae, according lo 2lot or Pelluce, the "boBe" of Clay SHAW.

3. COBB PaS jianied a CSC on 9 October 1959 for ise

eu a prirare artoracye panel doe the DGC. COBB ses granted a

Pen un l? june 1958 do porno contact and esbeed.nant la conrection

p:ita hio nas on a clearad amorneyo panal lor tue dOC.

**. :lichael übaries CONLEY

a. idichard Charles CONLEY le au apparent US Gareramant

onario di Robert Keeret B2D4K.

is. A bir. lchael &. CONLET apalled ior Aguety

ericyont la 1984. Idaniity with a, abore, has aut beco

rataillaire.

CHARE

Doct

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

1. Allen it. DULLES

a. GARRISON asbroecaed 11i. DULLES Un

16 FrUrEary 1969 d0 & LaBIOSA WIReSS.

b. On 7 March !968 Judga laatthes BRANLEF dosuod

a second Buapocra for Me. DULLes.

6. Da 22 MAT 1968 GARRISON'e ofico accuced lo

Justice Lepartirons of reluslag lo cooperato in the subpoenalog

É ALI. LULLES BO E MIRESO.

B. Eleslam GORNICKI (201-193323)

a. GORNICKIlo a Pollob jouraallos tho mas the auteor

os a long article on le GARRISON lavesligalles la "Palliyra"

No. 1 (566), Year Mul Warses, 6 Jamary 1969.

a. GORMICKI unE te eubjecs of an cabucceBBiul

recraliment alterpo la 1965 ubllo ho maa a correspondent at

the uN.

1 %. Maroball Wilson HOUTS (201-933140)

A. KOUTS, a losmos EDi agual, Lo the aulhor of an

article in Medieal Ecoanärice & March 1968 abich colucired

le autoray of Precident lieanedy.

6. HOUTS served alth 095 ta Bara daring Worlé

War Il and rao lavedred da the alsappropriatios of goyorement

aroperly. HOUTE andascenelully apolled dos Agency employnent

ka i331.

10. Guy Persas JOHNSON (291-207973)

a. JOHN50% was an carly defense coundel for

Clay SHAT.

D. A POA mae sequested la hlay l9i4 for SOlINgON

1O DE VOCE On GUAM aS A COntrACE AgORA lOr OUKODIAN (eratatag

vase on talian). The regueet lor lhe POA mao later cancollod.

11. WIlla.AR. KLEIN S

a, Accardlag to ples or Politico KLEIN Das as

---

## Page 5

-SEGRET

Incorporator ol Friends ol Democratic Cuba, along will

Gy BANISTER, Willian DALlELL, and Grady C. DORHAi,.

KiENd dered COStaCE WiCh DURHAM, BANITER, and Erleade

•i Democrade Cuba. He admitted association Ella DALLIL to

set s the dree volce of latin America, KELIN Bueno so bo

# jersonal islend of Jim GARRiSON.

5. KLEIN applied for agency employment le 19ts

Dul accartoá a jub sita the US Nary General Counsel'o Cllico.

i2. Robert Sreasen LiE /

LEE was Ba Addistan! District Alsorney dox Jon

GARRISON irow: 1 January 1967 so 1 Jesuary 1855.

3. LEE epilled fos agoney employmens on 5 January 1969.

13. Hilllam AlchaId AARTIN (201-283516)

a. MARTIN MAO Da AbOlatas DietricE Allorney los

Jim GARRISON until Deceraber 1967.

a. MARTIN #ao a DCS contact and cource de 1961 sad

19o5 then he was biroctor of Intersetloeal Relations and Forld

Irade o! Isterestlenal Fouga in Raw Orlease.

SiS. RElinES MORIN (201-109129)

3. MORIN is tha asthor of Assassinattos, a into-liarren

5, 110RIN provided infor-nalion lo OSS oa his intera mess

in Indo Chiss during the early part of Wezid War Il.

c. 110NIN Bad considered lur dis jes of President of the

Cominittee for a free Acto in 1951 end the job of Dacolaces ol

OTE ILLAR (Asla Faundailon) 1s 1953.

15. Dr. Alton CCISNER (201-934497)

e. No Ful contidentlal informent reported on la April 1953

test Jie GARAISON belleves De. OCHSNER was a principal

injolved in the consalracy to asnacsinate President Kennedy.

SECRET

litt

53

DocIdka

---

## Page 6

SEGRET

Farmer 1992.1

of the

Sacre?,

i. D:. OCHSNER do Director of the Ochener

Eupriation, head of the Oebones Clinic, and Presidost of the

Infurinallon Council el America. Buds a world-lameds durgeon.

De. OCHSNER was of contact interest la Deraber

1957 and NOVemOSs !94B. Ho has boon a elegiod source since

13 may 1955, Tho lost offietal contact with De. OCHSNER

poreonally occurred en & January 1952 aad with the Ochone:

Cinie on 3 November 1963.

*iG. RODErE PERRIN

a. Robert PERRIN allegedly met with Jaes RoDY.

Col. L. RObaTe CASTORE, and elors la Dallas la 1942

to plas a Cuben arugaling operades. FERRIN has becs accused

of beins a Cli gus-runner la Spala and ta Caba.

1. A LA: (18) MODEr POllOS PERRIN illed a personal

blatory statemert with 08S la Jensary 184%. Ilere la no

Indestion ho over carved with OSS or mes letes connected tilb

lào Agency.

17. BenjenIs EONNENBERG

a. 310rE LANE said on the achaortedgoner page o

Hunn To Judgement: Ian deeply indebted to Donjanil

SONNENBING, JI. Those nunerose and tavaluable esgaestions

hare found tater way hate tria volame. "

o. Benjamin SONNENBERG WAS ETONION A COA ON

27 June 1959 los use aados Froject SKENCHANT. The CSA.

was revalidated lor continued 33a on 26 July 1985.

c. An Apell 1959 Duna ad Bradotroce rayare listed

SONNENBERG as a direcior of the pabliating flers et Heary

Hods and Company lac., 393 Medieos Are.. New Yori City.

Rusa To Judsonent eas pabllahed by folt, Risebart and Willoo

309 Madison Are., estancibly the earse cornzany.

do An October 1954 FEl soport said that la 1938 Allied

K. STEEN earmarked $3030 to a band accouns lo garanise a

hand loan ede la SONNENGERO.

SECRET

53294

---

## Page 7

SECRET

c. These do no ladication that SONNENDERG eves

need the torn "junlor" and li 1a nos knoza yes li ha has a eon

18. Mr. and Mis. Edgar Sloom STERN (Re 1e 201-170541)

=.

Jach ROGERS, the committes counsel for tae jolut

legislallre Committae on Va-American Activitles los the State

of Louisiana, reported to the DOS on 1 June 1967, tat

GAKRISON had been receiving contributors and moralary

support fIon Mrs. Edgar B. STERN.

s. Mr0. Edgar B. ETERN is the lormer adith

ROSENWALD ass the formes aleter-in-lar of Alfred K. STERN.

c. Clay SHAW atiended a party sivea by "en sid

Irlead. Edita STERN, apparently la Ocloser 1997.

Edgar B. STERN was gracted a covert clogrance

le january 1953 for use 8e a donor la Frojecs LECOIN. Thia

clearance was cancelled in Esplomber 1956.

PELLO LAUTICO STERN, Dos of the abore rentlorod

conca, sas granted a latoon clearance in March 1961 when ho

was the Lopoly Adolelani Secretary of Stela for Public Allelrs.

PHIL, ETERN vas elRe naed so one of a "board ef advisors"

to Tubert HUMPINES da 1961.

11.

stonroe SULLIVAN

a. SULLIVAN claimed to bo rich Clay SHA% la.

Las Exanciaca all day 22 November 1963.

1. SUbLIVAN Dã0 graaled a ClA on l0 December

196280 permit tilliaatos nade: Preject CKENCHANT.

20. Millan Clasoss WOOD (201-534232)

a. A 2Ill WOOD, using the name Bill BOXLEY, 19

Lovestigalog GLA and lis eperationa for I9m GARRISON.

b. Bill WOWD la bellered to be Saentical with Willlam

Clarene WOOD, a formes stall employee of lie Aquacy.

-SECRET

---

## Page 8

SEGRET

¡llam Clarena WOOD, born iT August 1920,

was approved in OSS dusy la December 1942, but dae aut

millace. On 13 December 1950 BOCD MaO gracted a CaC for

UliatOn AL A Clal AgEa! EllA PrOjeCI TETOCUS. Ha sullered

A nervous breakdown da Masch 1952. He mas aesigned to OTE

as an feitructor (08-11) la day 1952. He recigaed 27 Jamasy

1953, afses his realgnation had been roquested, because of

alcoholions. Khile under the indurace as sodian pentathol darlos

A ruedical oneralica la Jaly 1953 WOOD mada atatemenis shoriag

issroine antagorion toward the Ageacy. The Fag reported is

ArIll 1957 that FOOD bad silored aealerance to the Natloralist

Chinese Inselligence Sorideo. DOS requested clearance to une

WOOD la rebriary 1967 bad dropped the request alter te EBl

reported that he mes Ariaitag heavily agala.

SEGRET

---

