# docid-32289661

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10437

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-106633-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, SJ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/27/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

FCH, TEAMSTER UNION, TRA, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

D&dId: 32289661

Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John

F

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

nedy

Assassination Records

Colter

*ion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

ANT THrOMATION CONTAINED

F. Kieffer

1 - Little

MERE IM IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SAC, San Juan (105-5369) CONFIDENTI/4/27/62

REC-10

Director, FBI (105-106633)-10

FRANK CHAVEZ, aKa.

IS - DOMINICAN REFUBLIC

7.0%

17:179 4y598: Machide

Declassily on: BANK/JAK

Reurlet of

2/20/62.

A confidential source abroad has furnished the

following information regarding subject's activities in the

Bahamas in late 1961 classified "Confidential":

Chovez checked in at the Nassau Beach Hotel on 10/2i/61

in company with two men, one being Jaime Amador, 800 Figueroa,

santurce, Fuerto Rico, with whom he shared a suite until their

departure on 10/24/61.

On checking out of the hotel, Chavez

paid the hotel bill with a Teamsters Union check drawn on the

Banco de Puerto Rico, Stop 17 Branch, Santurce, Fuerto Rico.

Besides paying the hotel bill Chavez cashed two checks for

himself but these have since been returned by the bank in

Puerto Rico for insufficient funds.

The hotel manager has uritton

Chavez at the address furnished by him, namely, 30 Calle Doncello,

Santurce, Puerto Rico, but to date has not received a reply

Ine Bahama authorities in Nassau did not request

Chavez and his wife to depart upon the arrival of "powerful

Trujillistos" in Nassau.

Our source added that Chavez departed from

the Bahamas on 10/24/61 and he was not in the Bahamas at the

time of the arrival of Arismendi Irujillo on 11/1/61-(C,

The source further aduised that it was rumored that

on 10/22/61 Arturo Ispaillat spent the afternoon drinking with

"foreigners" in a room at the Nassau Beach Hotel.

further stated that

Chavez may have been present but that has

not been confirmed.

1 - Ottawa

- Foreign Liaison Unit

1 = 105-52902 (Arturo Espatllat)

HWL: pa

MAILED 4

(7)

APR2 @ 1962

COMM-FBI

1o?

148

sist

gen

MAIL ROOMAL TELETYPE UNIT

MAY 10 1062

DooId: 32289661 Page 2

SEE NOTE PAGE THO

CONCUENTAO

Tra

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-441 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK HATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

available for disclosure. All references relate'to

Section 6 of the "president John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992." "

[] Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity).

In Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

la subsection 1c (other matter relating. to military

defense, intelligence operations.or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[] subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

Subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government..currently.reguiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected lo be utilized)

I1 Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[ ]

For your information:

If the following number is to be used for reference

regarding

this page (these pages);

Hg 105-1066 33-10 (INComing)

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

DocId: 32289661

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John

Hotel.

DATE:

11-14-2017

de CollectionAct

of 1992 (41 USC 2107

"X"

CONFIDENTIAL

S/2665

AND INFORRATTON CONTAINED

WESLIN IS UNCLASSIVLED EAGERT

WHOREC SHORN OTHERNISES

Frank CHAVEZ:

19th April, 1962.

12-12-94

- 18 - Mo

Declassity on: OADP/SP.F

Please refer to your 13764 dated 7th March, 1962, in which

mention was made of CHAVEZ' connection with the Teamsters Union

in Puerto Rico and of his visit to the Bahamas with his wife.

Enquiries have disclosed that Frank CHAVEZ booked in at

the Nassau Beach Hotel on 2lst October, 1961, in company with two

Puerto Rico, with whom

On leaving CHAVEZ

paid the bill with a Teamsters Union cheque on the Banco de Puerto

Rico - Stop 17 Branch - Santurce - Puerto Rico. Apart from the hotel

bill he cashed two cheques for himself but these have since been

returned by the Puerto Rico bank endorsed 'Insufficient Funds'.

The hotel manager has written to him at the address given, which was

30 Calle Doncella, Santurce, Fuerto Rico, but has received no reply.

According to your source, when the Bahamas authorities learned

of the arrival of "powerful Trujillistas" in Nassau, they requested

CHAVEZ and hiS wife to leave the island.

We understand that this

So far as is known CHAVEZ left on 24th October

and, again so. far as is known, he was not in the Bahamas at the time

that And smend ARUJILL arrived on Ist Novemberuno

eat vate port tot era ontobe at the asa tea after.

; Which might have referred to CHAVEZ and his companions, but

this is certainly not firm REC-10

EX 1OI

HE 0E5/2218533-

FROM STOTI

APR 1 9 1962

XEROXUE TalICE

16S5!

128 blai

COPY FILED IN /15-

SA-

185-166633

5/12

DooId: 32289661

Page 4

---

