# docid-32129231

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-14-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10035-10068

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-663

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: THOMPSON, RICHARD C.

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

:[No Title]

DATE

:.12/05/1963

PAGES

: 18

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN

PERIOD, SIGHTING, DALLAS, TX

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/06/199.6

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history fox this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

ARPORTINO OFFICE

MILWAUKEE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALIAS

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

DATE

12/5/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOO

12/2 - 4/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA RICHARD C. THOMPSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - R

TYPED BY

1mp

REFERENCES

• Milwaukee tel to Bureau and Dallas 12/3/63.

New Orleans tei to Bureau, Dallas, Milwaukee and San Antonio 12/3/6:

Dallas tel to Milwaukee 12/3/63.

Milwaukee tel to Bureau, Dallas and New Orleans 12/4/63.

Milwaukee tel to Bureau

and Dallas 12/4/63.

Milwaukee airtel to Dallas 12/4/63.

NED

-P-

4/26/93

MILWAUKEE DIVISION

9803 RDDSAT

"(JFK

LEADS

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

At Milwaukee, Wisconsin:

Will continue to handle all future Investigation Immediately,

submitting results by teletype and following with investigative

report within three days.

SPEL CHARGENT

(COPIES DECENTED

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-825515-663 REC53

I0 - Bureau (62-189060) (AM,RM)

ArBIati, 5 - Dallas (89-43) (AM)

2 - Milwaukee (62-1178)

KELLE

A'LA

DIs

IMINATION RECORD O

ATTACHEO REPONT

ADENCY...

REQUEST RECD..

DATI AND.....

HOw тwD...

aY....

Pendent mossin.

1/13/19

Faster

Ra/itf

1963

101i

NOTATIONS

SOVIET

- A -

COVER PAGE

W.8. 00VERNMENT PRINTING ORPIGE

18-78386-1

NH 53932 DocId: 32129231 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MI 62-1178

INFORMANTS

The following additional informants were contacted in this

matter as

Indicated below:

MI 613-C on 11/29/63 by SA RICHARD C. THOMPSON;

GEORGE MEHOVES,

PCI, on 11/25/63 by SA WILLIAM J. HIGGINS;

DAVID KOHLER, PCI, on 11/29/63 by SA M. W. MEEKINS.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Relative to the interviews of Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD V. LE CLAIR

set out in details of report, a lead was set out for Dallas

in Milwaukee tel to Bureau and Dallas dated 12/3/63 to identify

the funeral home employee and investigate circumstances.

Relative to the interview of MARGARET BUDREAU as set out in

details of this report, Dallas and the Bureau were advised

by teletype dated 12/4/63 and Dallas was given additional

detailed information by airtel the same date and was requested

to consider the information in the light of facts known

concerning subject's whereabouts in July, 1963.

Concerning the interviews of NORMAN FREDERIKSEN and his wife,

ELKE FREDERIKSEN as requested by reference Dallas teletype

spoke.

NORMAN FREDERIKSEN also stated

that he became suspicious

Of OSWALD principally because he managed to get his Russian

born wife out of Russia and he also recalls that a friend of

his said that OSWALD,

upon his return from Russia to the

United States, wouldn't take a job unless it was in a photo

graphic lab.

When asked the source of this he said he felt

this friend

might possibly have been ILYA MAMANDOR, an employee

of the Socony Company of Dallas, who apparently 1s Russian borr

but now a citizen of the United

states.

He further stated

that ILYA MAMANDOR wouldn't have come to the GLOVER party.

If he had been invited because ILYA wouldn't go to any place

- B=

COVER PAGE

HH 53932 DocId:32129231 Page

3

---

