# docid-32323102

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90010-10106

RECORD SERIES:

DL.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-9734-742

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

BROWN

DL

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/22/1961

3

Released under the John

F. kenned:

Issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:BT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32323102

Page 1

62

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUN

TO : SAC, DALLAS (134-4A-377A).

FROM:

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

DATE:

6/22/61

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT:

DL-7-5

DATE 2-15-47815668 SID/HSR

On 5/31/61,

SAW. HARLAN BROWN, in person,

ceived

from

DI-eSa

typewritten report dated 5/26/61, which

report

has been serialized as 134-4A-377

That report reflected

a regular CP meeting was

held at the home ot

JOE LANDIN on Friday,

5/26/61 ...

Those

present at the meeting were

JOE LANDIN, BALL LOWERY and

AUGUSTIN ESTRADA.

this neeting

ESTRADA explained that JOHN

STANFORD had been

in Dallas recently and he

(AUGUSTIN) had

1 • 134-4A-377A

1 • 100-8001

(J.

Landin)

• 100-7929 (B. Lowery)

100-7995(A.

Estrada)

100-8749 J

Stanford)

100-671-1 (Funds)

1

100-671-21

(PEP)

-100-671-5 (Organization)

1

• 100-8242

(N. Ross)

100-8171 (E. Ross)

65-450 (D.

Freed)

100-9734

(G.I.

100-5257

Forum)

(NAACP)

d 100-671-8 (POl. Act.)

1 • 100-8160

(J: Lawrence)

100-9974 D.

Lawrence)

100-8254

Fretwei 1)

100-671-19 (Security

Measures)

1'-

San Antonio

(RM) (John Stanford,

(San Antonio

IS-C

#100-7232)

WEB : HM

100-9734.742

EXCO

KREMLIZED , FILED

JUMZ SMI

FOX - DALLAS

74 54463

DooId:32323102 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 134-4A-377

paid dues for the LANDINS

the LOwERYs up to february

1961.

AUGUSTIN explained that

STANFORD was on his way to

York and could not

him for he was

pressed

for time.

that reason,

(AUGUSTIN) had paid

their dues.

JOE LANDIN @wed him $6.00;

BILL LOVERY $7.00.

ESTRADA had with

of literature that

gotten from JoMy, STANFOrD

about

month ago.

LOWERY

and for LINDIN locked through it and bought

BILL LOWERY explained

that he

almost sure he could sell

what he purchased to the

ROSSEs and to

DAVE FREED.

LANDIN

suggested

that some of

the literature should be

mailed out

people that belonged to the Forumor to the

NAACP, that is,

to people who have shown some interest in

pOlItICS.

The idea was to let as many people

as possible

read some of the literature.

He also remarked that most ex-

Party members

what was happening locally and nationally

ESTRADA thought the

was a good one and he suggested

that two good persons that should receive some of the

literature were Reverend RIFIT JAMES and IDA MORENO.

LOwErY said that in the very near future they would do just

would sperd a meeting mniling literature to

influental figures.

He suggested that PAULIA WEAVER be

He reported' that the LAWRENCES (JOE LAWRENCE

and his wite) were

so preoccupied making money that they ne

longer cared

to talk to hin about politics.

They have a

schedule of their daily social activitios always ahead ®f

time and it does not include politics.

NATALIE ROSS,

according to BILL LOVERY, had described the LAWRENCES as

two unhappy companions,

that JOE LAWRENCE had admitted

married his wife for her money.

Informant's report reflected that BILL LOWERY

seemed concerned

about the newspaper articles that dwelt

with communists in Texas. He remembered that one of them

had named AUGUSTIN ESTRADA, another had given

JOHN STANFORD'g

name and his official position.

None of the three, present,

he said, knew what position JOIN STANFORD

Or AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA

neld. then,

the number of Dallas members had been

siver, the number had been six, while actually there are

only five, according to

LOWERY.

He said he was

sure. that

JOE LANDIN waS

innocent,

but that he suspected the tw

other fellows (besides JOHN STANFORD) that made up the State

Committee:

JOE LANDIN

said he was under the impression

that only BILL LOVERY,

AUGUSTIN ESTRADA and

recruit

MC KINNEY were aware that the membership had increased by

one. LANDIN raised the question

"Didn't BILL recruit

MC KINNEY

an asked hin to neet with the Dallas group?"

54463

DooId: 32323102

---

## Page 4

DI 134-4A-377

BILL LOWERY said that

he

had

not and that they (the State

Committee

had instructed him to recruit MC KINNEY and have

him meet with the Dallas group. (MC KINNEY, aCcording to

informant

Is a CP Negro member

who lives in Fort Worth.

LOWErY said he suspected the members: of the State Committee

for the above reason.

He urged

AUGUSTIN ESTRADA to set&

trap for them by

giving them, at the coming State Committee

meeting, some false information and then

wait

to see what

happens.

AUGUSTIN ESTRADA

was not too enthusiastic about

this and said that they might do it sometime in the future.

JOE LANDIN said that

he suspected MC KINNEY as being the one

giving out information.

He remembered that BIlL LowERY had

recently told hin how strange and

suspicious MCKINNEY had

acted once when BIll and AUGUSTIN were

JOE

LANDIN said he also

not know that he was not marrying a Negro wenan. He seemed,

JOE LANDIN added,

by his setions to be dishonest.

BILL LOWERY said that in spite of the fact that MC KINNEY had

acted mysterious, he still believed that one of the two

State Committee members was the

agent.

According to informant, BILL LOWERY and AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA are to meet

sometime this week to finish up their

report on the

Mexican-American

Question

Texas.

ESTRADA

assigned JOE LANDIN to write

a report on the Cuban situation.

Informant had

no additional information.

1-3.

NH 54463

DooId: 32323102

Page 4

---

