# docid-32174953

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Fortr

Agency Information

vuLe.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10181-10049

RECORD SERIES: LO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-358-96,97

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, LO

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1970

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFK, INTV, BKG, HOSKINGS, KEITH

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32174953

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

HEREIN

DATE , 31/94

April 28, 1070

JFK)

MR KEENE

HOSKINGS

on April

20, 1970,

a check of records of Now

Sootland Tard,

London,

England, cellected that KEITH

HOSKINGS was born detober 5,

1928, 1o St. Kitts, British

Rost Indies.

He arrived in

the Undted Kingúon in 1958

and reaides with his nother at 16, Cap Rosd,

Wimbledon,

London.

3.W,

In 1900 he was arrested and convicted

for thoft and as of April 27,

1970 me about to be ar

rested again by Metropositan

Police, Londen, fer larceny

of nonoy fron

his enployer.

On April

24, 1970, Detective Sergeant EASY

PARISH,

Now Scotland Fard, London, intervieved BOSSINGS

at his

residence.

lie described HOSKINCS as a white anle

wich West Indian accent.

Ho iss persisted in anyag to

the polleo that he mas not well cuough to stand trial

for his present offence of larceny fron his employer and

1t In bolloved that the lotters he ban

written to tho

I.S.I. At Washington and

Dallas, as vell as letters to

American Tabassy,

Londos, U.8. Al. Force Headquarters,

England, and New Scotland Yard, London,

have all been an

attempt

his part to say that he has

boen coogerating

with New Scotland Tard and the I.B.l. An solving nejon

crines, which he

• hoped

would not in mitigation for his

current oftense

of larceny from his employer.

Thon

intoryieved by set.

PARISH, he professed

intinate knowledge of all the current sajor crinos la Londer,

including a kidnaping and nurder case

and

na saplonage dase

currently being tried.

He also clained to have been & member

o1 tha

Ma21a sent to

Eaglend

Sergent PARISE ie of the opinion chat bocause of

subjoct's mental lostability

tas

thought

he nigit: be

• Immeda-

ately brought to the U.s. to

assist U.S. authorities,

thus

saving himself fron being arrosted and sentenced in Loadon.

Searched_-

This document

cantains

neither

Indexed

5 - Burea u

Serialized

1 - Liaison

the rat.

Filed

I Lon 62-358

London 94-338

the fet and is lied to your agency;

it nod it contate are not to be

- ACM: vw

discributed ontario your agency.

(8)

62-358-96

DocId: 32174953

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

4/28/70

AINTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, IBI

FROM :

LEGAT, LONDON

(94-338)

MR. KEITH BOSKINGS

16, GAP ROAD

WIMBLEDON, SOUTHWEST 19

LONDON,

ENGLAND

RESEARCE MATTER (CORRESPONDENCE AND TOURS)

ReBuairtel, captioned as above, dated 4/7/70 and

Bulet 4/15/70 captioned "ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOFN

FITZGERALD KENNEDY, DALRAS, TEXAS, 11/22/65, MISC- INFO.

CONCERNING"

0o 4/27/70 Detective Sergeant FLED PARISH,

Criminal Intelligence Squad, New Scotland Vard, London,

advised he has identified subject and has in fact inter

viewed him in connection with

captioned matter.

Results

DI PARISE's investigation and interview are contained in

the lini, & copies of which are enclosed.

From this contact with PARISH and further check

ing of Special Branch records, New Scotland Fard, it would

appenr subject

1s an

inveterate letterwriter with

some

mental instability.

ALE SORTER

N: W07H80

3

• Bureau (Eac.

1

5)

- Liaison (Anc.

Lon 94-332

1)

Lon 02-353

ACH: vw

/(6)

DATE S194 619883 AGAT

(JFK)

Searched

Indexed

Filed

Serialized e

af

62-358-97

DocId: 32174953 Page 3

---

