# docid-32302170

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10280-10107

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 113-7-210-3742

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/25/1965

PAGES:

'11

SUBJECTS :

CC, ASSOC, REBELLION, NUEVITAS, CAMAGUEY, CUBA,

ACA, MIL ACT, POLIT ACT, CP ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAI. OF INS

COMMENTS: INC LHM, REFERRED TO INS

v9.1

DocId: 32302170

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jolrf.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL GORM NO. 10i

CiNE MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. GEG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES:

HERE MENT

Memorandum

ECREIC

TO

DIRECTOR, FbI

(113-7-210)

FRON

SAC, MIAMI

(105-2878) (P)

SUBJEGT

DATE:

MAY 2 5 1965

GAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

PECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

INDORMATZON CONTAINED

Classit

MIBL

Decfassity on: OAR TR

Mie.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/GeL

61(6)

750197

N: 25X,

FRI

DECLASSIFY

11 3226

Classified byw

Declassity

ten:

ONDR /

ReBulct, 5-3-65.

dated and

Transmitted hercwith are nine copics of a IHM,

captioned as above.

as follows:

Sources concealed by I symbols are identifica

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

10 ELVIE OL HE LACONCH HE MY MODIC

-SICH EDWICHERELEASE-OF CIA IMFOFEMATION

NTEG:

DOCHWE 2 6036024ED 10 220 BE 6ШЙ

THIS DOCUMENT

DET

Bulet enclosed

DVIE

IM.:

CIA roport classified

6-18-97

FIDEL CASTRO in Nuevitas,

"Scoret"

WVDE LILLAMONTES

camaguey, matter and one of a2s

this same

Cuba&4 VM 015-S independently reported concerning

sourcefawas ELIESER

LHT LNSESHEAEN13 13522126419

ostientified at IDS

GONZALEZ

The incident referred to undoubtedly occurred

but experienced observers do not rogard the-small port

town of Nuevitas

open rebellion

adoffering any more opportunity'f

against CASTRO than

others wherc

=Burcau (Ex

9) (RM)

-San Juan

fenc.

2) (RM)

2-Miami

D-105-2878

REC g

-SEE REVERSE SIDE

FOR

&SEMINATION.

110-504 Economic Matters

EES/al

ba)

BA

VHE

-3742

UNI/OSI/ACST

by

Date

routing slip for into.

2 - 65 by.

JUNS

06

126

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly the Payroll Savings Plan

REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

DocId: 32302170

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEN900 85 NS

280-10107109

VOR X09

COrRel: TC701O4

193

pà tongod eno for fuge

*ССT0: NACC

11-13.69

NOV. 28 1563

ANS.

BY: JAK

SI RECO

DOM DATELEDIV ECONOUTC

-702-5918)

1SC60

TS

milian

S-ROU 109U MIC 5)

( 370)

5-205,000 (RUERA) (BOT)

OO6U TOPOTTTON

SASTNOC

FONU OT UNG ICCA SO OrIOLINE

NOTATIONS HEREIN ACCOUNT FOR ACCESS AND OR DELIVERY OF THIS DOCUMENT TO SENATE ATTI

SELECE COMMUTE ISSCIAN ER HOUSE SELECI CON BITTÉEHSE) ON INTELLIGENCE ACTINES

LAST ARE TO NICH NOTES AND OF DELVERY WAS MADE MAY DE, DIFFERENT ST

THAN A9 REPREGENTED BY THIS STORMENT THAT GE AN ELOSIONS MY HAVE REEN SCOOT

MADL. F99 109E88Y DENVERY FOR IBE -1C57 6211639s 36. 63lanad45cksa ETTEa

LITO DOUG SETERE SONS/CAS

(sweenea

TUGGOOSE OURIA ESDOLPEC COUCCLUTUG

CONCELUTUZ

FORCECT EDIT CVANDATE IN HOEATEST

120G6Gf,

TO ESTATE OF KING THROUGH THE DEPT AS I PICATED SELOR T

DOCUMENTS FURNISHED TO SSO RE MARTIN LTH STEE WERE ALSO SIRENED DOT

A'STANT DOCUMENT DATE

ENOTING DELIVERY TO DEPT. SEE BUILE 100106670 FRE FORM IN WHICH FURNISHER

MEDES IVAC

99 TOTTOMA*

OSCEO SUO OSOCTONEG

sa spond:

TT.SHEUTEESO DEIONIEU SLE UTUE GODTOO OES THNA

VI!

OXON: 103

NITIONGA VID KVAVE NAILERE - COEY

EVC® HIVNI

(J02-5913)

(5)

DISECTOR LET (II3-I-SIO)

VIENNON GUO SING

WEMI

WILHIZ DOCOMRAL A

P60r728.C2431

MV0NO6

ON HVC VD-91222/0640

DocId: 32302170 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNIT. : ITES DEPARTMENT OF JUS CE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

105-2878

Miami, Florida

MAY 2 5 1365

Fidai

Classifieda

Pectas

ATTENTI

PHTANTAINDD

RE: MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

Cuban Merchant Marine

MM T-1, widely acquainted with pro and anti-CASTRO

activities and who maintains contact with numerous Cuban news

Cuban magazine

, dated at Havana, Cuba,

March 12,

1965.

The article was in effect a eulogy of the

Cuban

Merchant Marine, pointing out that the tonnage had more

than doubled within the last five years.

The crews of the Cuban ships increased from

584 men in 1959 to 1107 in September 1964.

The article

noted that in 1959 Cuban ships called mainly at the ports

of New Orleans, Tampa, Pensacola, Philadelphia, New York,

Guayquil, Ecuador.

In 1965, the ports most

frequently visited by Cuban ships are Montreal and St

John, Canada, Rotterdam, Holland, Antwerp, Belgium, London,

England, Barcelona,

Spain, Algiers and Stettin. It was

stated that at the present time Cuban ships were in almost

all important Spanish ports, Including Alicante, GiJon,

Cadiz, Palma de Mallorca,

and Tenerife. It was also noted

that the Cuban flag flies In Naples, Le Havre, and Georgetown,

British Gulana.

Merchant Marine cadets are trained at the Naval

Academy at Mariel as well as the Pilots and Machinists School

CLOSURE

113-7210-3742

DocId: 32302170

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Réleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RE:

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

SONFIDENTIAL

of the Merchant Marine.

"Bohemia" stated ten 13,000 ton ships are under

construction for Cuba

and two special refrigerator ships

are being built with a

capacity of 60,000 cubic feet.

Two

725 ton ferries with capacity of 500 passengers each are

allegedly under construction to handle the maritime traffic

between Cuba and the Isle of Pines.

Difficulties Between Cube and the Isle of Pines

MM 1-2, de

source with many years experience

as both a

private and police

Investigator,

who maintains

contact with some sources still in Cubak advised on

April 26, 1965, that maritime communication between

Nueva

Gerona s

Isle of pines,

and Batabano,

southern

port in the Province of Havana,is being handled at

present time by five ships but

with considerable irregularity.

Three of these

ships,

"Isla del Tesoro"

"Willlam J. Mills"

"pinero"

and the

are ferries

and carry passengers and

vehicles.

Two ships,

"Bongos Uno" and "Bongos Dos"

transport cargo only:

All of these vessels are in very poor condition

and are continually having to be towed to port from the

middle of their crossing because of serious break-downs

In their machinery. Repairs needed are urgent but it

1s

Impossible to effect them Immediately because of the

lack of replacement parts.

The one most

experiencing break-downs

Is the largest,

t frequentl Tesoro"

which is used by

the government to transport troops between

Nueva

Gerona and Batabano

This

ferry can carry 900 to

1000

passengers

and up to

30 vehicles

depending on

their

size.

There are

also

two

and

planes

assigned to handle cargo

passengers between

the airports of Nueva Gerona

and/or Siguanea.

The airport of Siguanes Is approximately

SONFIDENTIAR

DocId: 32302170 Page 5

---

