# docid-32295890

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10216-10166

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-68

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Casef:NO 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BOGGAN, FURMAN G.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/10/1960

PAGES:

56

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45855

3

DocId: 32295890

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Repart

FD-263 (5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW ORLEANS

Office of Origin

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CARLOS

MARCELLO, Aka.

Calegero Minacore; Carlos Junior

Marcello, Carlos Marcella,

Cabreo Minacore, Carlos M.

Minacori, "The Little Man"

Date

9/10/60

Investigative Period

9/6-9/60

Report made by

FURMAN G. BOGGAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

•ANTI-RACKETEER ING

Synopsist

REFERENCES:

Bureau airtel to Albany, 8/25/60.

Report of SA REGIS L. KENNEDY, New Orleans, 6/30/60.

LEADS:

No leads are being set out in this report in view of in-

structions contained in reBuairtel to Albany dated 8/25/60.

INFORMANTS:

= T=1 -

LAI

former New Orleans PCI, a close

personal acquaintance of subject.

LA:

T-2 - Former PCI JEK Act 6 (4)

a New Orleans hoodlum of

unknown reliability, believed at ones time

MARCELLO'S.

to be an associate of

Approved

Copies made:

Special Agent

In Charge

- Bureau (92-2713)

Do not write in spaces below

92-2713-68

tracert

2 - New Orleans (92-36)

Typed By:

wib/

dfs

REC- 56

RS

2E6 13

3 35 112 mo

IEC 4710

Kra)

43%

IRAS8: 10*

::$=

BEC COVER

57 SEP

PAGE

2 3 1960

Property of FBI

-. This report is loaned

to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

I U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0-344750

HIH

45855 DooId: 32295890

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36/dfs

T=3

PCI

JEK Act 6 (4)

Jefferson

Parish, La.

and a brother

of

a handbook operator in

Capt. EARL ROLLING,

Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office.

T-4

Federal Income Tax Returns of CARLOS MARCELLO,

supplied to the New Orleans Office by the Bureau, 4/7/58.

Former CI [

a professional

gambler who operated in Jefferson Parish, La. at the time he

furnished information to this office.

T-6

- RICHARD "PAT" GILLEN, Jefferson Parish handbook

operator and barroom operator.

- CHESTER A. USRY, District Director, Internal

Revenue Service, U. S. Treasury Dept., New Orleans.

T-8

- Miss CAROL HUBER, who when contacted in

November, 1948, was an employee of

the Beverly Country Club.

T-9 - PCI

JFK Act 6 (4)

for PHILIP FRANK KASTEL, presently the operator of the Beverly.

Country Club.

T-10 - PHILIP FRANK KASTEL, connected with the

management and operation of the Beverly Country Club, throughout

its history.

T-11 - Mrs. HAYDEE BROWNING,

Secretary, Chief,

Occupational License Division, Department of Revenue, Baton

Rouge, La.

T-12 - AARON KOHN, Managing Director, Metropolitan

Crime Commission of New Orleans, Inc., and a former agent of

the FBI.

T-13 -

PCI, Shreveport, La.,

bartender.

T-14 -

book operator:

iN 7-15 -

JEK Act 6 (4)

|, PCI, Shreveport, La., a hand-

RICHARD C.

BALDWIN, Attorney for the LeBaron

Romer Assistant U. S. Attorney, who requested

be

revealed.

his identity

not

ON

1/20/90 am

RELEAGE IN HULL

RELEASE IN PART

I7 TOTAL DENIAL

B

COVER PAGE

45855 DocId: 32295890

Page 3

---

