# docid-32303582

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10094

HQ

100-30067-2

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorde

COllection act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, SF

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/10/1941

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOP, ADMIN, CUSTODIAL DETENTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

2

DocId: 32303582

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Beneral Bureau of Iuestigation

Uniten States Department of Justice

San Francisco, California

June 10, 1941

PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAI

Hisanitad

Director,

Federal Bureau of Investigation,

Washington, D. C.

ON

9-23-94

(EAK)

RES JOHN PITTMAN

INTERNAL SECURITY (E)

Dear Sir:

-..

Attached is a custodial detention memorandum

prepared on the above named subject.

Very truly yours,

M. A.1. Pieper

N. J. Lo PIEPER YU

Special Agent in Charge

OAE: GC

100-1465

Enco

BECORDED

100-30067-2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

7

JUN 23

.941g

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

2 ENCI

21

114

74 53130

DooId:32303582 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CUSTODIAL DETENTION MEMORANDUM

JOHN PITTMAN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIMIED

1667 Hyde Street

San Francisco, California

DATE 9-23-94 BYSpS Mai Mal

(J42)

COMMUNIST

U. So Citizen

S: F. file 100-1465

The name of the above individual is being submitted to the

Bureau for consideration for custodial detention in the event of a

national emergency.

The following information is summarized from the

San Francisco file:

Name, address, and nationalistic tendency are given above.

JOHN PITTMAN, colored, is employed as Foreign Editor of

the PEOPLES WORLD, West Coast Communist newspaper, 583 Market Street,

San Francisco. He is probably a U.S. citizen, reportedly born in

Georgia. Investigation on this point is being conducted.

of the Communist Party from September 1936 to February 1937, he had

occasion to view the records of the Newspaper Guild Fraction of the

Communist Party, and among the names listed was the name of the subject,

who is identified as holding a position at the PEOPLES WORLD newspaper,

a Communist organ. According to this informant, subject attended

Communist Party meetings of the Newspaper Guild Fraction during the

time from

September 1936 to February 1937 while this informant was a

member of the Party• Confidential Informant SF-296 further advises that

subject's wife, MERLE PITIMAN, is believed to be white, and quit her

position at the clo to accept a position at the state headquarters of

the Communist Party, 121 Haight Street, San Francisco.

Confidential Informant SF-2 advises that subject asso-

ciates with BILL SCHNEIDERNANN, secretary of the 13th District of the

communist Party for the state of California, and that he met with JAMeS

W. FORD, Vice-Presidential candidate for the Communist Party in Los

Angèles, California in October 1940.

The San Francisco Police Department under date of March 7,

1941 reports that subject spoke at a mass meeting held in the Mission

Turnvere Hall in May 1935, and under date of October 4, 1937 the

WESTERN WORKER carried an article stating he was elected as a member

of the Executive Board of the San Francisco County Council Committee

of the Communist Party. This report reflects he is a member of the

Northern California Newspaper Guild, and active in organizing negroes

in trade unions; also that he was registered as a Communist from San

Francisco in 1938. Subject writes a daily column in the PEOPLES WORLD,

and it is to be noted that he is outspoken in his opinion in upholding

Russia.

COPIES DESTROYED 7-23-58

108-3066

NW 53130 DocId:32303582 Ple

---

