# docid-32327948

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10189

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-62

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/30/1963

PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS:

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45799

10

DocId: 32327948

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ENCLOSURES (2)

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of a letterhead memo, setting forth the

characterization of the informants utilized in instant report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The information furnished by the Pacific Telephone

company, as reflected in instant report, was furnished by CSL

4178-S, an employee of the Pacific Telephone Company.

In view of the fact that PCI

is the only

female employee at A Corner of Hawaii Bar and Restaurant, the

masculine gender has been utilized relative to ali information

furnished by her so as not

to compromise her identity.

telephone CL 1-9469,

HINDES and advised that the Bureau wished to discuss a matter

with him at his convenience. Without any endeavor to ascertain

the purpose of the interview, GARBER immediately proceeded to

proffer numerous excuses to avoid any interview.

However, he

finally agreed to appear at the NYO during the afternoon of

5/27/63. GARBER did not appear at the NYO and failed to call to

offer any reason for his non-appearance.

It may be noted that several attempts were made to con-

tact GARBER at his residence during the month of May, 1963.

each occasion, GARBER was absent from his residence and his wife

was unable to furnish any information concerning his whereabouts

or 1tinerary.

Since ABRAHAM ZOSLOVSKY and AARON KLEIMAN have been

Interviewed relative to the subject's interest in A Corner of

Hawail, the interview with GARBER is temporarily being held in

abeyance in an endeavor to develop additional information concern-

ing his association with the subject.

COVER PAGE

- B -

OTHER 4

NW 45799

Docid: 32327948

Page

2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont 'a

During May and June, 1963, the following information

was furnished on a periodic basis to SA JAMES. I. MC SHANE by

NY 3661-C:

NY 3661-C advised that he had determined that telephone

YUkon 1-9699 was utilized by SAL GRANELLO's bookmaking operation.

The informant stated that this telephone is located somewhere in

, and is operated by two unidentified clerks.

The informant

advised that this operation is under the direct

control of one BUDDYXCAPPOLA, although GRANELLO heads the operati

According to the informant, the code utilized by him, the

informant, is the name FISHERand then a number which

designates

the bettor. NY 3661-C stated that another telephone utilized by

to determine if a change has been made relative to the Yukon

number. The code for the Murray Hill number is the name WATTERS.

NY 3661-C advised that the telephone on Staten Island

is operated between the hours of 11:00 AM to 4:00 PM and 6:00 PM

to 8:30 PM and that this number handles all bookmaking, sports,

and trotting wagers.

The informant further advised that BUDDY CAPPOLA has

an office at 16 Delancy Street in a Greek social club called the

"Amanecer and Borincan

• Social Club, telephone OR 5-972% The

informant added that all the work handled during the day must

be brought to this location sometime during the day by the

clerks, so that a tabulation may be made on the receipts.

The

informant was not cognizant of the time that the work is brought

to this club, but indicated that it would probably be in the late

afternoon.

He stated that CAPPOLA usually arrives at this clut

at 3:00 PM and departs at approximately 7:00 PM in a pet shop

the informant stated that CAPPOLA also operates

located at 10 Delancy Street, New York City, telephone OR 4-3373.

The informant advised that the operation on Staten

Island probably consists of a cheese box and that the technician

handling the equipment probably comes from New Jersey. He stated

COVER. PAGE

-C -

ORE

NW 45799

DocId: 32327948

Page

3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont 'a

that the cheese box is likely to be connected to the door and

windows of the room so that any entrance to the room by an un-

authorized individual would break the circuit.

Subsequently, the informant advised that he had developed

a contact which indicated a willingness to sell a radio type

cheese box to him, the informant, for the sum of $1500.00.

informant stated that this source indicated that the particular

type cheese box in question is being utilized on Staten Island, NY,

but was not cognizant of the name of the bookmaker. The informant

expressed an interest in purchasing this particular cheese box,

not for himself, but for a second party, but indicated to the

source that he must be assured that this would operate satis-

factorily and would not be

he source stated that he deplect to a number of breakdowns

che informant in contact with th

technicians, who repaired the existing transmitter on Staten

Island and he, the informant, could discuss the technical aspects

of this equipment.

It is to be noted that investigation, concerning the

present transmitter on Staten Island, reflected that it was not

in service on 6/10/63, and the informant was requested to

contact the Murray Hill number for additional information.

On 6/11/63, the informant contacted the Murray Hill

number and requested

the new number that would take the place of

the Yukon number.

The informant was advised by the person

answering the telephone, that the Yukon number was still in

service, but he would accept a bet from the informant.

The in-

formant advised that he recognized the voice of this individual

and beltered that it was identical to a want tablet namen

"Big Sam Cheroff" (phonetic).

a former numbexs man and clerk for a bookmaker named Eror

NY 3661-C stated that when the Yukon number is called

and the code is given, the control at Staten Island does not

know the name of the bettor.

The bettor is only known to the

COVER PAGE

-D÷

\ NW 45799

DocId: 32327948

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont 'a

the assistance of the "syndicate", and that theyhad milked the

money from this apartment project although all papers are in his

name.

The subject advised the legat that he departed Miami,

Inasmuch as he felt he could not cause these "syndicate" members

to desist in this milking process, and he realized that he was the

Legally responsible individual. &(M)

MOSS stated that it 1s his opinion that if he attempts

to sell this story in court, he would not "last until the end

of the week"

members. (n weaning that he would be killed by the "syndicate"

MoSS would not elaborate his story, any details or

names, and at one point inquired whether the

Bureau had an

Interest in receiving information about the "syndicate" in Miami,

Florida.

In this connection, he indicated that he wald desire

to be interviewed at a place

somewhere outside of Florida, and

Indicated that he would expect to remain a free man. an(M)

MOSS inquired concerning the Federal charges against

him and was advised that the warrants were outstanding for his

arrest under the UFAP - Grand Larceny Statute. M)

MOSs inquired whether the UFAP warrant was based on

the situation in Florida and he was advised that the Federal

charges emanated from the charges made by the state of Florida. (Mi

on 6/4/63, the following information was furnished

by PCI HOWARD KREITSEK tO SA EUGENE J. HINDES:

The Pel advised that he had occasion to contact ROCKY

GRAZIANO on Friday, 5/31/63.

At that time, GRAZIANO stated that

subject wished to have a meeting with the PCI.

The PCI stated that he met GRAZIANO In Suite 4070,

Time and Life Building, New York City, the office of BOB

SHEPARD, a theatrical agent.

SHEPARD, GRAZIANO and GRANELLO

were present in the office.

Upon the arrival of the PCI, GRANELLO

COVER PAGE

-F-

I NW 45799 DocId:32327948 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont 'd

displayed a friendly attitude and invited the PCI to step into

another office, where they could have

a private conversation.

the conversation, GRANELLO apologized

for the conduct of GEORGE

LEVINE, in the latter's relationship

He stated that LEVINE was

with the PCI several years at that time, and described LEVINE

corrected for his actions,

as

"crazy".

GRANELLO then proceeded to advise the PCI that he and

LEVINE were both in trouble with the Federal Government.

He

added that he was not concerned relative to his own problems,

since they only involved money and if worse came to worse, he

would simply have to pay a fine, but not go to jail. He further

stated that the people behind him would not let him go to jail.

However, he stated that LEVINE's situation presented a different

problem. He commented that LEVINE is under a sentence of 222 years

but he,

GRANELLO, does not intend to see LEVINE serve any time.

At this point, he asked the PCI if the latter would be willing

felt obligated to furnish $7500.00 for LEVINE's appeal. The PCI

stated that he does not have the money and did not feel any moral

obligation to furnish such money.

GRANELLO proceeded to Inquire relative to the current

status of JOHN

KEILLY, who was associated with GRANELLO, LEVINE

and the PCI in the past.

The PCI told GRANELLO that he

has not

had any contact with KEILLY and is not cognizant of his present

financial status.

The subject asked the PCI if the latter would

be willing to check into KEILLY's current status and see if he

would have any money available for LEVINE's appeal.

He stated

the PCI that GRAZIANO could furnish the PCI with KEILLY's

current business card and suggested that the PCI get in touch with

KEILLY.

The PCI stated that GRANELLO did not make any direct

threats such as he received from LEVINE in the past. However,

he stated that there were a couple of veiled threats made by

GRANELLO. In one instance, GRANELLO stated that the only way his

people are separated from money is by death. The PCI explained

that this meant either GRANELLO or his associates would resort

to murder as a means to acquire money, or that they would have to

be killed to prevent them from such actions.

The PCI also stated

COVER PAGE

=G-

NW 45799

Docid: 32327948

Page

6

---

## Page 7

SSE

ET

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont.'a

He added that FRANKIE (LNU) arranges dates for a number of girls

that frequent the establishments.

GRAZIANO further told the PCI that one, HARVEY GREEN,

a cookie distributor, had recently run into difficulty with the

Teamsters Union.

GRAZIANO, GREEN has not had any problems since

'that time.

The aforementioned information was withheld from the

details of instant report, since the PCI has indicated on

1 several

occasions that GRANELLO and his associates are suspect of the PCI's

activities.

Since most of this information was furnished directly

to the PCI by GRANELLO, it is felt that the unnecessary disclosure.

of this information may tend to compromise this informant.

During My and June, 1963, NY 3936-C furnished the

following information to SA WILLIAM A, VERICKER:

The informant advised that SAL GRANELLO also known as

NY

BUFALINO and JIMMY DOYLE.

residing in Brazil and skipped with $175,000.00 of GRANELLO'S uSAt.

money, although he, GRANELLO, Claims that he presently sends BIRELL

$300.00 per month for living expenses.

GRANELLO further stated

that he owns A Corner of Hawall Bar and Restaurant at lith St. and

SALLY BURNS claims an interest in the Marlborough House

project in Miami, Florida, and that he put $100,000.00 into this

operation with SIDNEY MOSS and LARRY HOLLANDER.

SALLY BURNS has related that PRAIMC GUIRE, former coach;

of the Philadelphia Warriors, 1s a close friend, but they do not my

discuss basketball as they are afraid that someone will be

suspicious of their activities. However, FRANK MC GUIRE, along with

COVER PAGE

- I -

NW 45799 DocId: 32327948

Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRE

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE Cont 'd

hat the subject was introduced to him as the owner or A corne.

f Hawaii

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

Contacting Agent

NY T-1

NY 3461-C

SA J. L. MARTIN

NY T-2

SA JAMES P. FLYNN

NY T-3

PCI

SAS EUGENE J. HINDES and

EDWIN C. TAYLOR

IY T-

Y 204-

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

NY T-5

NY 3969-PC

NY T-6

Internal Revenue Service,

Washington, DC

SA JOHN D. SWIFT

Headquarters of the FBI,

Washington, DC

NY I-7

SA JOSEPH FERRISE,

IRS, 245 West Houston St., NYC

NY I-8

Detective VINCENT MALAVARCO,

NYS Police, 270 Broadway, NYC

NY I-9

PCI HOWARD KREITSEK

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

- L-

SEE

NW 45799 DocId: 32327948 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS Cont'a

Identity of Source

NY T-10

NK 2145-C

NY I-11

CSCI 309-0

LEADS:

MIAMI

Contacting Agent

At Miami, Florida

An information copy of this report is being furnished

to the Miami Division, in viewof the current investigation being

conducted in that area.

NEWARK:

At Newark, NJ

Will determine the registrants of the following license

numbers

and conduct appropriate agency checks:

ENF761

CXG841

FSI204

NEW YORK

At NY, NY

1. Will conduct additional investigation reltive to

the subject's activity at the Roosevelt Motor Inn, East Meadow,

LI, NY.

COVER PAGE

-M.-

NW 45799 DocId: 32327948 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NY 92-1108

MICHAEL MYERSON, a close associate of the subject

in the Phoenix,

Arizona area, was known in 1949

to have attempted to pass counterfeit bonds.

On June 24, 1963, Mr. GEORGE SANDERS, Manager; Mrs:

HELEN SANDERS,

Room, Roosevelt Motor Inn, 1650 Hempstead Turnpike,

J. HINDES that they could not identify photographs of SALVATORE

GRANELLO and LINDA BILELIA as clientele of the above concern.

VI. PENDING PROSECUTION

A. Income Tax Violations

During May, 1963, NY T-6 advised that there is no

indication that SALVATORE GRANELLO has filed a Federal Income

Tax Return since 1955.

On June 12, 1963, NY I-T advised that the subject's

trial for Income Tax Evasion 1s scheduled for July 22, 1963.

B. Statutory Rape

On June 11, 1963, Justice of the Peace WILLIAM ARMSTRONG,

Freewood Lake, New York

JANIE WILLIAMS, age 15, Greewood Lake, New York, charging that

WILLIAMS had been raped by the subject on June 10, 1963.

on June 11, 1963, Investigator GERARD STROMMER,

New York State Police, Monroe, New York, advised SA MC MANUS that

the subject has been acquainted with the WILLIAMS girl for

approximately five years, since she has resided across the street

Irom the subject's summer residence on Ten Eyck Avenue, Greenwood

Lake, New York, and is an associate of the subject's children.

suffers

According to Investigator STROMMER, WILLIAMS

from a nerve injury in her back and has been receiving

medical treatment.

GRANELLO had proposed an examination by

a New York City specialist to WILLIAMS and her mother. In

- 15 -

NW 45799

DocId: 32327948

Page

10

---

## Page 11

NY 92-1108

addition, he discussed with WILLIAMS, who is very attractive,

the arrangements for an interview with a model agency in New York

City.

On June 10, 1963, GRANELLO called WILLIAMS and invited

her to his residence to discuss appointments with the specialist

and model agency.

When WILLIAMS arrived at the subject's residence:

attired in a bathing suit, she found GRANELLO was alone. GRANELLO

photographed her in

the bathing suit and in the nude with WILLIAMS

su ta shes

camera.

Thereafter, he removed the film and retained it in his

possession.

He then proceeded to have sexual relations with her.

Following the incident,

GRANELLO advised WILLIAMS that he would

take her to New York City on June 11, 1963, to consult the specia-

list. However, in the event his chauffeur was unable to pick

her up, he furnished her with $20.00 for bus fare to the city.

Subsequently, WILLIAMS advised the New York State Police

that she was too frightened to protest and did not make any

outcry until June ii, 1963, when she told her boyfriend, THOMAS

ZANDER.

At his suggestion, she advised her mother, who contacted

the authorities.

On the evening of June 11, 1963, WILLIAMS was examined

by Dr. (first name unknown) ROBBINS, Greenwood Lake, New York,

who acknowledged that WILLIAMS had intercourse, but he was unable

to determine the time of the occurence or the state of chastity

prior to the incident.

Investigator STROMMER stated that he was taking a

detailed statement from the girl and anticipated filing an

information against GRANELLO charging him with Statutory Rape.

He added that he had hoped to locate GRANELIO at his residence

in Greenwood Lake, New York, where he could conduct a search for

the film or other physical evidence of the crime.

On June 12, 1963, NY T-8 advised that the subject was

arrested by the New York State Police in New York City, during

the afternoon of June 12, 1963.

GRANELLO was charged with

statutory Rape 2nd and was scheduled to appear before the Justic

of the Peace, Greenwood Lake, New York, on the

evening of June 12,

1963..

- 16 -

NW 45799

DocId: 32327948

Page 11

---

