# docid-32326427

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90055-10019

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Casef:NT 55355 Date:

11-27-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

FROM:

NSA

TO:

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/21/1961

2

ANTONIO DE VARONA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

174 55355

DocId: 32326427

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

TOL SECRET DIN*

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED

***NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS**

The information contain in this docu-

ment will not be disclosed to foreign

nationals or their representatives

without express approval of the DIREC

TOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

Approval shall refer specially to this

document or to specific information

contained therein)

TO BE GIVEN SERIES X (LIMITED) DISTRIBUTION

(/ (English] (TS) WS y2x50606

3/0/X/T54-61

P

CUBAN UNDERGROUND ACTIVITIES REVEALED TO CASTRO

FR

TO

El Paso, Texas:

JAQUIN

Havana:

Prime Minister,

FIDEL CASTRO

21 (Aug] 61 1625

ITS

CLASSIETED BY S668-54D/ds

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

GFK

Investigate Captain MIGUELITXMOENCK and (his] father MIGUEL

ANGEL MOENCK. Captain MIGUELITO MOENCK feared for [thel lives t

his children and just sent them to the home of their uncle, MIGUEL

DECAMPA, in Washington, D.C. •

[Thel underground master plot con-

ceived Joy MIGUEL MOENCK and Ihis son along with ANTONIO,VARONA

MANUEL

RAY and MIGUEL DE CAMPA has

Penl in operation tor two years.

JEK Act

: 6 (1) (B)

P4

MS

GR

FQ

SS

FR

TQ

CN

ITS]

TI

IS

19 Sep 61

025250/44/

3/0/x/T54-61

"YATHIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS 1 PAGE

****NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS*******

*****

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED

(5) 64-330-210- 1109)

NOT RECORDED

INDEXER

TOP SECRET DINAR

NOV 1

1961

NW 55355 DooId: 32326427

Page 2

---

## Page 3

IT P SECRET DJAR

3/0/8/154-61

"JAQUIN"

21 /Aug761

Not identified.

of this

signature.

No

other occurrences in published traffic

SPECIAL HANDLING REQUIRED

NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

The information contained in this document will not

be disclosed to foreign nationals or their representa-

tives without express aperoval of the DIRECTOR,

NATIONAL SECURITY ACENCY. Approval

shall refer specifically to this document or to specific

information contained therein.

1i65-179

TOP SECRET DINAR

HH 55355 DocId:32326427 Page 3

---

