# docid-32338718

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10136

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/01/1941

' PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

: HH 54460

DocId: 32338718

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONSADENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

TITLE

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

DATE WHEN MADE

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

1201-41

11/15-89/41

FILE NO. 100-6769

REPORT MADE BY

THOMAS E. MYERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

HERHERT BIBERHAN;

JOHN HOWARD-LAWSON.

ARE IXPORMATIOK CONTAINE:

hERETyS UNCLASSIFIID

INTERNAL SECURITY • R

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

STRICTLY CONDENTAL

121-

Dally association of Bureau agent with subjest BIBER-

MAN continuing, with resultant signifioant disclosures:

(a)

That aubjoot 1s known to Intimates as "Anti-fazi

BIBERMAN;" (b). That he lived in Moseow and studied

drana there during 1928; (o) That he enjoyed special

privileges from Soviet Government and was well acquain-

tod with Sovlot officials; (d) That he 18 Iatessely

partisan in behalf of Russian people and advocates all

possiblo United States aid to them, including was;

(e)

That he joined the Callfornia Stato Guard recently

to give expresaion to his convictions. subject deso

cribed by agent as extremely intolligent and cautious

1o conversation, but definitaly friendly to agent.

Date of Benefit Concort for Russian War Relief for

mally proclaimed "Hodical Ald to Russla Day" by LOS

Angeles Mayor, FLETCHER BORON; BIBERMAN adrised by

JANK MEADE that said proolamation rosulted fIOn DIMITRI

TIOMKIN'S efforts.

TIONKIN advised BIBERHAN cOncert a

sellout, o1ting celebrities who w1ll nake briof speoches

supporting Russian Ald and indicating diffloulties being

experienced with BORIS INGSTER. Production plans for

Russian propaganda motion picture desoribed; BIBERMAN

in directive consultation with GEORGE EFFINs on this sub-

joot. Sponsorabip of additional Russian Ald projects by

Payment of $465.87 by BIBERVAN to

6/To/87 26 baltey + 2594440

APPRovoclassity.on:

14-11-86

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

594166

100-2707500

5 - Bureau

2 - New York

2 - Los Angeles

OOASSNDENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId:32338718 Page 2

FiNG

---

## Page 3

sponsorship.

The "people's World," Connunist Party dally newspaper,

1s replete with advertisementa daily of small parties at homes and

small halla stagod for the advertised purpose of benefiting Russian

war relief. In particular, it hes been noted that some of these small

parties are aseribed to the sponsorship of the "I.W.O. Russian War

Rollef,."

It has been further reported by Confidential National De-

fense Informant Ios Angeles No. 100 that

subject BIBERMAN has been the

recipient of various requests to participate in programs for the benefit

of Russian war relief, all of which he has uniformly declined. The

eited informant advises that one Mr, WILINES direoted an unknown woman

to connunicate with Sabject BIBERHAN

to advise that a large group was

Elving a banquet at the Park Manor, 2200 West Seventh Street, Sunday,

December 14, 1941 to raise funds for Russia., Informant states that

the caller requested BIBERMAN to act as master of ceremonies for the

grOUD, advising that it was another medical ald to Russia group which

has sprung up." The caller further commented that BIBERMAN was "such

= good appeal artist that he has been missed in town, and people have

been asking about him."

с и)

It will, be noted that this letter statement

refers to the pattern of withdrawal from public appearances on the

part of BIBERMAN which has been observed throughout this investiga

The informant advises that BIBERMAN declined to

act

as masteI Of ceremonies as requested, directing the caller to make an

appeal for a speaker to the Russian Way Relief Association, desoribing

that organization as "offiolal it

An additional request was made along these lines

to BIBERMAN'S WifO, CALE SONDERGAARD, according to Confidential National

Defense Informant Los Angeles No. 100, who reporte that one MARY BRAN

contacted subject's wife, requesting her to appear on a benefit pro-

gram for Russian War relief. BRAN stated in conversation with GALE

SONDERGAARD that she was well acquainted with Miss SUNDERGAARD'S mothere

in-law (Mrs. JOSEPH BIBERVAN, subject's mother) and further said that

she was

doing a big job to ald russia. She stated that the group of

which she is a member was giving a big show at the wilshire Ebeil

Theater on November 29, 1941 and that it was desired that GALE SONDIR"

CAARD contribute her talent on the program, together with ABBOTY and

COSTELLO, ADOLPE MENTOU, and other stars.

on the occasion of this re

quest; SONDERGAARD doclined to commit herself but it was later ascertained

by Confidential National Defense Informant No. 150 that sho will appear

on the programo

It her also door asertain det the progan ta guestion ele

-11+

LAL

d0113-10?0

NW 54460 DooId: 32338718 Page 3

---

