# docid-32304162

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10174

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-73107-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, KX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/24/1970

2

IM, REL, EDUCATION, EMP, MIL, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/05/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304162 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

LAY 1962 EDITION

ESA IPMR (i CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (65-73107)

DATE: 3-24-70

SAc.

KNOXVILLE (134-300) (P)

ATT: INDORMICION CORTATNED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIUZOD EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SUBJECT:

DR. GLEB MAMANTOV, aka

Glebs Mamontovs,

LATECON

-(S)

ESP - R

(00: KX)

KX

tot

Re Knoxville letter (FD 379) to Búreau 12-15-69.

Bureau letter to Knoxville 12-29-69. WFO Letter to Bureau

2-4-70.

On 2-12-70, Dr.

DAVID R. SHIRLEY, Professor and"

Head of the Chemistry, University of Tennessee (UT),

Knoxville, Tennessee, advised SA HOWARD A. McKAMEY that

subject obtained his

PhD degree from Louisiana State University

and did post-doctoral work at the University of wisconsin,

Madison, Wisconsin.

He stated he is an associate professor

at UT in the Chemistry Department and has been so employed

for approximately ten years and is also a consultant with the

Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), Oak Ridge, Tennessee..

believed to be connected with the Atomic Energy Commission

(AEC) .

He stated that subject came to this country as a

displaced person with his parents just after World War II

and. that the majority of his relatives resided in the North-

eastern part of the United States.

He stated

subject is a

white Russian and his parents were both medical doctors;

however, they did not practice after they arrived in this

country. He said that

the father of the subject is deceased.

He advised that subject does research work with

graduate and post-doctoral students in both organic and

analytical chemistry; however, he is not connected with

research in the chemical warfare field.

He stated that subject

served in the United States Air Force and that he believes

he has a security clearance in connection with his work

at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tenn.

He advised

subie-t is & person Se good character.

reputation and associates and that he has never heard ans

derogatory information concerning him since he has been

connected with UT

EX. - 106

2/21|91

Bureau (RMissed ySp& MACGAT

Knoxville Dectsssity on:

DADR JFK

MA MAR 26.1970

HAM: g sh

(4)

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

SEGRET

5010-108

DocId: 32304162

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREC

KX 134-300

on 3-6-70,. SA HENRY A. QUINN reviewed the Security

Files of the AEC, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and it was ascertained

that GLEB MAMANTOV was granted a l clearance by the AEC on

9-17-62 in connection with a research participant program with

the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studiés. This cléarance

was terminated on 9-24-64 and reinstituted on the same day in

connection with a consultant's,

contract with the ORN.

and 8-9-67 indicates

Wife

Father

Mother

Sister

CHARMAINE

vill

(BIENVENU) MAMANTOV

MAL

ALEXANDER MAMANTOV (deceased)

HELEN MAMANTOV

FOREIGN

Box 6,3.3

Landing, No J.

HELEN MISNIEWSKA

BoX. 633%

Sister

Brother

Brother

Father-in-law

Mother-in-law

25-39 44th St.

Lang. Island City; New York

ILYA/AMANTOV

6911 Mokingbird Lane

-Dallas,

Texas

1962

2444

Fairway Circle

Richardson. TeXas.

41967

IGOR MAMANTOV

67 Park Terrace

New York 37, New York

MAY MRSZERBEN H. RIENVENU

109 Chúrch-St.--

St. Martinville, La.

ZOE H. BIENVENU, same address

The Bureau is requested to check above names. through

Bureau indices.

If name check favorable, Bureau authorization

is requested

for knoxville to conduct a "sounding out" interview

under the LATECON Program. (S

- 2-

SECRET

DocId: 32304162 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 T41 USC 2107 Hote].*

DATE: 11-14-2017

BORIS PETROVICH MIROUNOV

DE 1/26. - 30/73

Laboratory Chief, Institute of Thermophy SECRET

of Siberian Section of USSR Academy of

Sciences, no known intelligence affiliations)

MIROUNOV arrived at Dallas, Texas, on 1/26/73,

and during his stay at Dallas, Texas, was

furnished hospitality by the Dallas Committee

for Foreign Visitors as well as DI. ROY SIMPSON,

Southern Methodist University (SMU), Dallas,

Texas. MIROUNOV On 1/30/73, departed Dallas

American Airlines Flight #58 for Chicago,

Illinois. Coverage by established sources dic

-- Quet-

DocId: 32304162

Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

285-10118 INFORMATTON CONTATNED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTFERWISE.

REASON: 1.5 (c,d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X. ()(6)

SECRET

9/29/95

5/0/18

AS LUSTNOV

any lad did!

+05-237846-2475)

MIONA

SECRET

DocId: 32304162

Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11÷14-2017

NO CHANGE ON

ENVELOPE

6855

153/678

3107105

27(5)

DocId: 32304162. Page 6

---

