# docid-32398413

## Page 1

Date: 01/25/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10106-10155

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

• Kennedy

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

WITHHELD

06/04/1973

2

SUBJECTS : WATERGATE HUNT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS # RELEASED IN PART EUBLIC - RELEASED WITH

DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/20/93

COMMENTS : JFK38 : F29: 1993.07.20.18:34:35:250590

IRI - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10106-10155

174 53294

DocId: 32398413

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: MHSAVVY/l's Knowledge Of Those Connected With

The Watergate Affair

1. Attached is an additional report from MHSAVUX/1

explaining his contacts with those involved in the

Watergate affair.

2. The individuals numbered in the report are:

Identity 1: Gonzales

Identity 2:

Hunt

Identity 3:

McCord

Identity 4:

Identity 5:

Barker

Martinez

Identity 6:

Sturgis

Cedric D. BARTILUCCI (P)

OCC, MAMUTUAI.

Attachment:

a/s

OGC/MHMUTUAL/CDB: maf

Distribution:

Orig - MHMUTUAL

1 - General Counsel

1 - C/WH/COG

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007073

WARNING NOTICE

SERGIRIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

NW 53294 DooId:32398413 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Adding more information to what Mario gave in his Mero to A. Friday

25th, and correcting cetain things of which Mario was not fully aware,

I wish to say the following:

Individual 1: I met him for the first time 5 or 6 years ago, when

I needed some lock work to be done in my Jewelry Store.

I called the M. Lo Key Shop over the telephone, and he was the individual

who was sent over to do the worke

In several other opportunities that I

have needed lock work, I have called the same place over the telephone

and he has always been the individual sent over to do the wörk, Right

after we moved the office to the new location I called the key shop again

to have two locks installed, and he was again sent over to install them.

At that time I did not see him because when he came to do the work Gladys

was the only one in the office and she received. him. The last time I saw

him was about three years ago when he did the last work in my jewelry store.

I am pretty confident that he is not aware of my present connections and

he surely believes that I am hundred per cent involved in the jewelry busi

It is also my belief that prior to the recent operation he was

neither connected with the

same people we have been.

Individual 2:

This individual was my first "contact" in 1960, introduced

to me by Bender in New York.. He was at that time in charge

of what we used to call the "civilian part"

of the operation. He left after

the failure of the invasion

ton, which I don't remenbe, And gave me a Post Office Box number in Washing-

now. I wrote to hin two or three friendly let-

The last time the letter was returned by the Post Office (I think che

Box did not belong to him anymore). The last time I saw him was July 5, 1961,

at the Hilton Hotel in Washington, when I was called to inforn about how the

rate of payments to the dependents of the brigaders had been established.

Individual 3:

I never met this individual.

Individual 4:

I met this individual at la Moderne Hotel in Miami around

May or June 1960, being present in that meeting the members

of the Cuban Democratic Revolutionary Front (Turned into C.RoCo afterwärds).

This individual was the interpreter between Bender and the members of C.D.R..o

After that meeting I saw him in two of three opportunities, but accidentally.

When Joa Birley took charge as my "contact", this individual started to act

as interpreter between Joe and I, but I was not pleased with the way he con.

ducted himself as an interpreter and I asked Joe to substitute him. Mario

started to act as interpreter ever since..

The last time I saw him was in

the last meeting he acted

as interpreter

between Joe and

Individual 5:

This individual was a

classmate of mine in the Havana High

School around 1939, with whom I had nothing more than an

acquaintance rather than a friendship. I have had no contact with him what-

soever eversince,

and I thirk I saw him the last tine having lunch in a res

taurant in Miami, in which opportunity I just saw him but did not even say

hello to him or:: spoke with him.

Individual 6: '

I have never met or seen this individual.

JUAN

NW 53294 DooId:32398413 Page 3

---

