# docid-32306180

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10310

HQ

2-1499-2ND NR 67

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/19/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

FS, ASSOC, ACA, MIRR, MILITARY ACT, SABOTAGING

CUBAN INSTALLATIONS, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32306180

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Assistant. Attorney General

J. Walter Yeagley

Frank Sturgis, mentioned above, is identical

with Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as Frank Fiorini,

who is mentioned in the enclosed report as having entered

into negotiations with Captain Diogo to obtain cransportation

of his men fron Miami to Cuba where Fiorini's non vould

stake out an area of operations for themselves. Sturgia

is the subject of my letter to you dated December 16, 1960,

at which time you were requested to advise whether the

activities of Sturgis developed to date indicated a possible

violation of neutrality statutes within the investigative

jurisdiction os the FBI warranting additional investigation.

O2 January 19, 1961, an informant, who has

furnished reliable information in the past, reported he

had visited the camp maintalned by Sturgis near Ponpano Beach,

Florida, and had learned that Captain Diego has a group

leaving "this weekend"

for Cuba and was to take along

several of Sturgis® men as a separate unit under the

leadership of one Max Vila, Jr.

This same informant

reported that he had learned that Bosch, Diego and Sturgis

were on January 19, 1901, reportedly in

Tampa, Florida,

allegodly to obtain possession of a boat

which had been

undergoing repairs. Additional details of this trip

the identity of the boat involved

are not known.

The United States Customs Service and

the United

States Border Patrol have been furnished all pertinent

developments in this matter in view of the possibility of

additional gunrunning activities on the part of the persons

involved with the captioned organization.

A representative of the Central Intelligence Agency

• (CIA) In Miami has advised our Miami Office that although

Clar

CIA has no operational interest in Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila

and his organization at the present time, sono consideration

is being afforded this matter by CIA and

it is possible that

CIA may acquire an operational interest

in this organization

CIA INASTY

anshied And upgended

at sometime in the near future su

per their

90

3/25|92

CONAIDENTINI

:2

HH

54462

DooId: 32306180

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECKET

PAGE TWO

MM.

126-3

MM SEVEN TWO SIX DASH S ADVISED THAT VICTOR PANEQUE. !

AKA

CAPTAIN DIEGO, WHO IS MILITARY DELEGATE OF MIRR IN MIAMI,

WAS GOING TO BE 'PLACED IN CUBA THROUGH GUANTANAMO BAY

SOMETIME SOON BY QUOTE THE AMERICANS UNQUOTE, NOT FURTHER

IDENTIFIED, ACCORDING TO BOSCH. ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST,

SAME INFORMANT LEARNED FROM BOSCH: THAT QUOTE JOLLY ROGER UNQUOTE

WAS GOING TO, TRANSPORT SOME GUNS FROM GREEN CAY, BAHAMAS, TO

MIAMI WHERE THESE GUNS WOULD BE TAKEN BY GROUP DEPARTING MIAMI

BY PLANE FOR CUBA, TODAY, UPON BASIS INFORMATION FURNISHED BY

BROWARD COUNTY, FLA., SHERIFF-S OFFICE, MIAMI INTERVIEWED

THREE

MEN WHO IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS U• S• CITIZENS LOCATED

ON ISOLATED PROPERTY NORTHWEST OF POMPANO BEACH, FLA. THESE

MEN WERE ROBERT EDWARD ROSTALLON, JAMES PETER HENRI, AND

AUGUST JOSEPH ANDREW BACHOT, JRO, WHO STATED THEY BELONGED TO

AN UNNAMED ORGANIZATION CONSISTING OF TWELVE TO THIRTEEN

AMERICANS UNDER LEADERSHIP OF FRANK STURGIS, TWO EIGHT NAUGHT

S. Wo SIXTIETH. COURT, MIAMI, AND THAT THEIR CAMP WAS A STAGING

AREA USED BY A GROUP PRIOR TO ITS TRANSPORTATION, DATE UNKNOWN,

EY PLANE OR BOAT, TO CUBA. THEY WERE OBSERVED TO BE IN

END PAGE/ TWO

Q (4)

NW 54462 DooId: 32306180

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE

SECRET

POSSESSION OF ONE WEBLEY MARK SIX REVOLVER•

THEY STATED

THAT STURGIS SAID THEIR PRESENCE IN CUBA WOULD ENCOURAGE

CUBANS TO DEFECT AGAINST CASTRO, AND THAT IF REVOLUTION SUC-

CESSFUL AGAINST CASTRO, THEY WOULD BE REWARDED WITH POLITICAL

POSITIONS OR BUSINESSES UNDER THE NEW REGIME AND BE ALLOWED

REMAIN IN CUBA. FRANK STURGIS IS IDENTICAL TO FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,

AKA FRANK FIORINI, WHO WAS MENTIONED IN REFERENCED REPORT AS HAVING

ENTERED INTO NEGOTIATIONS WITH CAPTAIN DIEGO TO OBATIN TRANSPOR-

TATION OF HIS MEN FROM MIAMI TO CUBA, WHERE FIORINI-S MEN

WOULD STAKE OUT AREA OF OPERATIONS FOR THEMSELVES •

M.M..

409-5

ALSO

TODAY, MM THREE SIX NINE DASH S REPORTED HE VISITED FIORINI-S

CAMP: NEAR POMPANO BEACH YESTERDAY AND LEARNED THAT CAPTAIN

DIEGO HAS GROUP LEAVING THIS WEEKEND FOR CUBA AND WILL TAKE ALONG

FOUR OR FIVE OF FIORINI-S MEN AS SEPARATE UNIT UNDER LEADERSHIP

OF MAX VILA, JR. SAME INFORMANT ALSO LEARNED THAT TODAY BOSCH,

DIEGO AND FIORINI ARE REPORTEDLY IN TAMPA, FLA., TO APPARENTLY

OBTAIN FOSSESSION OF A BOAT WHICH HAS BEEN UNDERGO.

SOREPAIRS:

IDENTITY OF BOAT AND FURTHER DETATIS NOT KNOUMS

AMI: HAS BEEN

IN LIAISON WITH CIA LOCALLY CONCERNING DEVELOPMENTS INSTANTE

END PAGE THREE

CIA INFO LAST SAT Be CUT

ON FE 4) CLASSIFIED PER S25TOL

LTR. 090-16449-25-1

SPEBTA GAL F

21.326/26/96

(u)

- SECRET

74 54462

DocId: 32306180

Page 4

---

