# docid-32331272

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10218

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

• TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/04/1962

1

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32331272 Page 1

• 31

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Miami (92-106)

Director,

FBI (22-2989)

404-62

CHARLES

AR

TOURINE, aka

Rerep of SA Willian A. Hanilton, 3-26-62, at

Mianie

Information recently developed on Tourine's activities,

including his trip to London,

England, should be fully developed.

Miami, as office of origin,

insure that all offices handling

investigative leads on Tourine complete their investigation with.

out delay.

Recent Information indicates Tourine is now in the

New Tork City area.

Therefore, the New York Office must institute

@ detailed and thorough investigation

to ascertain his current

activities in the New York City area.

Consideration should be given to employing the use

of a highly confidential source or technique to accurately

determine Tourine's current activities, associates, and business

connections. Outstanding investigation should be closely followed

by the Miami Office and an investigative report submitted by the

New York and Miani Offices to reach the Bureau no later than

May I, 1962.

1 - New York (92-851)

NOTE: Tourine is a well-known hoodlum figure who has numerous

contacts with hoodlum factions throughout the country. He has

resided in the Miami area since severing connections in Cuba and

also spends considerable time in the NYC area. He recently went.

to London, England, and was the subject of inquiry

by Scotland/

Last summer,

he visited England, France and Italy and

reportedly swindkedd substantial amounts of money from an unknown

English businessman.

Miami and New York are being instructed to

complete all outstanding investigation and submit a report by

5-1-62 and to consider using highly

follow Tourine's current

activities.

TOO,

REC- 6

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

PRS: pew

-5-0

MAILED 8

427 4 - 1962

COMM-FBI

92 - 2984-88

1259

APR 5 1952

Cx0.101

1074

DocId: 32331272

Page 2

---

