# docid-32298355

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10131

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-1ST NR 102

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-29-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/21/1964

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MRR, ACA, MIL EXERCISES, CUBAN INDEPENDENCE DAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027 DocId: 32298355

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

+-4-3 (R- 4-17-63)

Toisor.

Bolmont

Nohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLouch .

Evens

Gale

DECODED COPY

O AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

DECLASSIFIED-BY blOtOX SUD.IKSR

ON

-m 25-98.

ONFH

3:41

AM EST URGENT 5-21-64 PFC \

TQ DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 210520

RADIO IN TELETYPE

Paeye 2

_copies madeCIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATNON

AND/OR

for revierrat FRTHQ bYRELEASE OF CHUNFORMATION

ASCA 3•14 • 787A THIS DOCUMENT.

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES. IS-CUBA.

KP 2-3-48

MAY 20 IS CELEBRATED AS INDEPENDENCE DAY BY CUBANS...

LOCAL PRESS AND RADIO REPORT CUBAN EXILES ARE EXPEÇTING

MILITARY ATTACKS, GUERILLA ACTIVITY AND INFILTRATION AGAINST

CUBA. CUBAN GO ERNMENT REPORTEDLY HAS. THEIR ARMED FORCES ON

THE ALERT FOR SUCH ATTACKS.

ON MAY 20, 1964, MM 492-5, WHO NAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION REGARDING PRO-AND ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CUBA AND THE W.S.S ADVISED CUBAN GOVERNMENT CONTROLLED RADIO

STATION CMQ.., HAVANA, AT 6:30 A.M. ANNOUNCED THAT MILITARY

EXERCISES WOULD TAKE PLACE IN THE HAVANA AND PINAR DEL RIO

PROVINCES TODAY. THE BROADCAST RELATEO CUBAN AIR FORCE

SUPERSONIC AIRPLANES: NCULO CAUSE EXPLOSIONS OVER HAVANA ALL .

DAY AND GETWEEN SA.M. AND 2 P.M. ARTILLERY EXERCISES WOULD .

TAKE PLACE IN PINAR DEL RIO, CONCENTRATING IN THE AREA OF THE

CLASS. &

REASON-FOIM 1

DATE OF RUVIEW

SAN PEDRO BEACH, PINAR DEL RIO, CUBA. THE BROADCAST EXPLAINED

ORIGINAL FILED IN

THIS ANNOCWGEMENT HAD BEEN MADE TO INFORM THE PUBLIC SO THEY

WOULD NOT PANIC.

THE INFORMANT STATED BROADCASTS OF THIS

NATURE, REPORTING MILITARY EXERCISES TO TAKE PLACE, HAVE BEEN

MADE FREQUENTLY LATELY. OU

191-4133-

MANUEL RAY, HEAD OF JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANOT BERDEDED

ALL INFOR

TON T

METATED

25 1964

HEREIN IS

CLASSIFIED EXCEPT no: 005-014543 (TURE

WHERE SHAN OTHERWISE

97-41335N1RAL

SEK)

4 MAY

1964

2 Grassified by

Declasshy on

Pc Bia/al 05-1/029865 NEE MAY

1964

in the

OADR 7/3/84

dbove message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the bureau's cryptographic systems.

NH 54027

DooId: 32298355

Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-3 (Ray. 4-17-63)

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoren -

Burns

Gole

Nosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Troiter

Tele. Room

rinimes

Gundy/

D AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

O CABLEGRAM S

ADIO

XX TELETYPE

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI 210520

-15-84

HAS PUBLICLY PROMISED TO BE IN

CUBA MAY 20, 1964..

ZOCAL

FEDERAL AGENCIES INCLUDING CIA

"DOOT KNOW THE PRESENT

WHEREABOUTS OF RAY OR THE EXISTENCE OF ANY PRESENT MILITARY

ACTION IN CUBA BY JURE, PA) (D percia ta. "/18/ae

INS ISRAY ADVISED MALIVELI ARTIME BUESA, HEAD OF MOVIMENTO

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO MRR) BELIEVED TO BE IN VICARAGUA.

FEDERAL AGENCIES AND INFORMANTS KNOW OF NO PRESENT MILITARY

ACTIVITY BY MAR IN CUBA. LELA SAID THE MAY 15, 1964 ATTACK AT

PILON, ORIENTE, CUBA BY MAR WAS EXAGGERATED BY MAR PRESS

RELEASE. THERE WAS NO GUERILLA ACTION IN THIS RAID. MAR GAVE

PRESS RELEASE IN MIAMI ON MAY 19, 1964 THAT MRR THAT DAY HAD

SABOTAGED SIX BRIDGES IN CUBA.

CIA SAID THIS PRESS RELEASE

IS FALSE PARA

er Cla

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, HEAD OF SECOND NATIONAL FRONT

ESCOMBRAY (SAFE) IS BELIEVED BY MIAMI INS TO STILL BE IN

MIAMI. FEEDERAL AGENCIES AND INFORMANTS KNOW OF NO PRESENT

MILITARS ACTION IN CUBA BY SNEEZEL)

ABOUT 10 OF THE LEADING ANTI CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS HAVE

COOPERAZCO IN COLLECTING FLOWERS AND HAVE RENTED AN AIRPLANE.

AT ABOUT 1:30 P.M. TODAY

THE PLANE LEFT MIAMI AND WILL DROP

FLOWERS IN THE SEA BETWEEN KEY WEST AND CUBA IN CELEBRATION

OF CUBAN INDEPENDENCE DAY. *F

DRESS REPRESENTATIVES AND MM 639-5

TO DEPARTURE.!

•3E ABOARD THE SAME, *HICH NAS INFECTED BY US CUSTOMS PRIC!

5-11097

VIAL

§the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated öutside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system.

NW 54027 DooId: 32298355 Page 3

---

