# docid-32332691

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90103-10092

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-4426-171

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

AL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1958

'PAGES:

191

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45836• DocId: 32332691

Page 1

Date:

5/12/201

eleased andes =re

===.

F. Kerreda

aaaaatrazier Redezda

144

FES 220-

===: -

==-=--2=.

---

## Page 2

AL, 62-1152

DETAILS:

AVH: PAC

A. MUTUAL INTERESTS OF HOODLUMS AT MEETING

I. Origin

On April 18, 1958, Albany Confidential Informant

has been insufficient to determine reliability.

and who is an Italian businessman at Apalachin, New York, advised

Special Agents PATRICK A. MUNLEY and JAMES C. MEE that he was

are hoodlums who attended instant

BARBARA, SKu's estate on November 14, 1957, as

being members oflthe Sicilian Group in the Pittston area.

"-aa colated that shilTonoupE o piteston, Peorsylvanta.

is the head of all the Sicilians on che Eastern Coast

and that he is

probably the individual who gave the orders for the meeting which

was held at BARBARA's.

I-2o said that BaRBara, from his observations

i of the sicilians, would rank about either number three or four in

the Sicilian Group:

The informant

said that the group that met at BARBARA's

was made up of mostly "muscle men"

and apparently few of the real

leaders of the Sicilians.

He said that from his knowledge of the

Sicilians he would say that the meeting was for the purpose of

instructing those that were there concerning the new "bosses"

that they would return

SO

to their own areas and pass the word to other

Sicilians in the group.

T-28 stated that the Sicilians for years have been

running the "rackets" in the Pittston, Pennsylvania area, and that

he has observed the activities of the

individuals

mentioned above

who were at the meeting and others in the Pittston area, and knows

that they have always been involved in some kind of illegal activity.

On April 25,

1958, T-23 advised SA MUNLEY that he had

talked to SALVATORE (SAM) ALECCIA, with alias BLACKIE ALECCIA, an

associate of top hoodlum ANTHONY F. GUARNIERI on April 22, 1958.

le said that ALECCIA told him that ALECCIA and LOUIS CORDI, another

associate of GUARNIERI, were supposed to have attended the meeting

at JOSEPH BARBARA's on November 14, 1957,

but did not make it because

i having to work during the day.

Informant said he did not ask

whether they had intended to be at the meeting in the evening ALECCIA

1 e

45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 2

---

## Page 3

AL 52-1152

allegedly said that the meeting was for the purpose of naming the

bosses and that the meeting was strictly a Sicilian Group. Informant

said ALECCIA believes the

informant to be a Sicilian.

On May 7, 1953, I-28 informed SA MUNLEY that

SALVATORE ALECCIA had appeared at informant's place of business

on' Tuesday night, May 6, 1957, and he had tried to get ALECCIA

talking, but was

unable

to have him make any conversation.

In respect to the above information, it is noted

that the investigations of the individual top hooglums who

atums noted

attended instant meeting have reflected that they are ali of

Italian origin and a

major portion of them were born abroad, and

became naturalized citizens of the United States.

By letter dated

May 2, 1958, the New York Office

forwarded to the Buréau and to Albany copies of the report of

New York State Acting Commissioner of Investigation ARTHUR L. REUTER

on the activities and associations of persons identified as

present at the residence of JOSEPH BARBARA, Sr. at Apalachin,

New York; on November 14, 1957, and the reasons for their presence.

This report bears date of April 23, 1958.

* The

report is a sunmary of the investigation conducted

by REUTER's office into captioned meeting upon instructions of

the Governor of the State of New York issued November 15, 1957.

The New York Office received the report May 1, 1958,

from Chief Investigator HYMAN ROSENBLADT of the office of Commissioner

REUTER.

It should be noted that the office of Commissioner of

Investigation is no

longer existent, having been supplanted by the

New York State Crime Commission, set up by. legislative enactment

in 1958.

The New York Office has forwarded summaries of

information on individual hoodlums mentioned in the REUTER report

to interested offices for their files on the particular individual

hoodlums.

Additional details from this report will be set out

hereinafter.

2

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AL 62-1152

In the instance above. related

from Commissioner

REUTER's report of JOSEPH BARBARA, SR.

being stopped and

found in possession of a gun in New York City in 1931,

investigation has determined that he was accompanied by NATALE

EVOLE.

This was approximately 27 years ago. Also with them

was VINCENZO COPPOLA.

report concerning BArBaRA's arrest for murder have previously

been reported.

It is noted that these incidents also occurred

was allegedly due to a dispute between the victim and SANIC

VOLPE, SAM VOLPE and CHARLES DURALINO.

In the second murder it is noted that SANIO VOLPE

and ANGELO POLIZZI were allegedly involved and that during

te

investigation calls were traced from BARBARA's home to

Street, Utica, New York.

were, of course, attendees at

instant meeting at BARBARA's home.

It is noted that ANGELO POLIZZI was a Detroit hoodlum

who visited JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. at palachin, New York, not

long before POLIZZI's death in September 1957.

Since the above-mentioned murders occurred nearly

30 years ago, it is seen that the period of friendship covered

is extensive.

In connection with the relationship between BARBARA

and SANTO VOLPE, Albany Confidential Informant T-29, who has

furnished reliable information in the past,

on February 10.

1958, made available to SA PATRICK A, MUNLEY

EK Law 11(a)

released in part

per IRS 1/2/98 00

17

63-4456-171

NW 45836

DocId: 32332691 Page 4

---

## Page 5

AL. 62-1152

JEK Law 11(a)

Also furnished by I-29

18

63-4426-171

# NW 45836 DogId: 32332691 Page 5

---

## Page 6

AL 62-1152

By memorandum to the Director May 9, 1958,

in instant case, the Pittsburgh Division forwarded copies of

a memorandum detailing comments made by an attorney in

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Confidential Informant Albany I-32,

in respect to instant meeting.

1-32 was interviewed after he had

indicated a desire to discuss

the meeting with a Bureau

representative. Pittsburgh commented that T-32 is a politically

prominent figure and a somewhat congroversial one since

unconfirmed rumors have linked

him with racket figures over

a considerable number of years.

The rumors have never been

Pittsburgh noted

that I-32 was

Pittsburgh who is a likely successor to the governorship of

Pennsylvania in the next election.

It should be nded that T-32 gave the impression.

to interviewing agents that he felt there might be some

possibility JOSEPH FILARDO could be infuenced to talk about

instant meeting as

of CIVELIA and his position on citizenship more tenuous. I-32

stated that he feels that FILARDO may have attended as a victim

of the group rather than a member of it.

It is believed an

Italian speaking agent would fare better in attempting to:

interview FILARDO.

Both FILARDO and CIVEULA are mentioned

specifically below by I-32.

T-32. was interviewed on May 6, 1958, by Special

Agents DAMON W. PITCHER and JOHN S.

PORTELLA. He said that

after the

meeting of the noodlums at Apalachin, New York,

he was telephonically contacted by NICK CIVELLA and an

elderly Italian who

owns a bake shop in kansas City (believed

to be JOSEPH FILARDO, :

They requested him to represent them

before, the Federal Grand Jury and State Grand Jury in New

York City.

T-32 said he told the hoodlums he was unable

to represent

them directly, but would look out for their

interests and would arrange for them to obtain counsel

in New York, which he äid.

I-32 did not identify the counsel

he obtained for CIVELLA and FILARDo.

T-32 met the two hoodlums in New York City the night

before their hearing before the Federal Grand Jury and, although

he had an eight o'clock apointment, they kept him waiting

until 12:15 A.M. When they appeared they refused to say anything

to the attorneys. whom T-32 had arranged to represent them.

They

said. that they had conferred with some unnamed persons while en

route to New York City and had been told to say nothing, and that

24

• NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

'Page 6

---

## Page 7

AL 62-1152

they did not require the services of an attorney; however,

they did decide to retain the counsel selected by I'.32 for

their appearances the following day.

The informant related that the elderly baker (FILARDO)

was haturalized about 13 years ago and was extremely airaid

of losing his citizenship and of being deported.

He had no

recora, according to T-32,

and had never even been interrogated

by police before.

I-32 said he was unable to speak Engish

very well and wa's scared to death.

T÷32 said that FILARDO

gave the impression he would

have talked to the attorneys except that CIVEILO counseled

him frequently against saying anything. CIVILLO told

T-32.

that he would not and could not admit to him that he had

been present at the captioned meeting and his story was that

he had been in the area to visit a girl friend who was married

and whom he did not care to involve.

CIVELiC said that he

would be unable. to adnit to the Grand Jury that it was raining

outside even if it was at the

time he appeared before them.

T-32 said that the two hocalums and the attorneys

conferred. for about an hour and a half before the hoodlums

appeared before the Grand Jury and the attorneys briefed

the hoodlums on what questions they could refuse to

answer

and invoke the Fifth Amendment.

A series of possible questions

which they might be asked were

reviewed with them and CIVELLO.

would frequently state, with respect to those directed to the

baker,

"he can't answer that.". T-32 stated the review was

conducted in a reception room outside the room where the Grand

Jury was sitting.

I.-32 said that numerous witnesses who had been

subpoenaed to appear and who had been in attendance at the.

captioned meeting were present and absolutely refused to

talk to one another and acted like strangers.

- I-32: related that he had no knowledge of the

subject matter discussed at instant meeting at Apalachin,

but related that from his experience and various contacts

he was of the opinion that

in the late 20's or early 30's a

national organization was. formed. for the purpose of controlling

illegal activities.

This organization had a national council

and local

"overlord who would communicate with each other

by courier not trusting mail or telephone contacts.

He stated

he believed that JOE BIANCO was a courier in the Pittsburgh

district. (It is noted that BIANCO was convicted in about 1951

for Interstate Transportation of Lottery Tickets.

He was

arrested at that time after getting off an airplane with a

25

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691, Page 7

---

## Page 8

FL 62-1152

I-32 said that after talking to both CIVELLO and

FILARDO and observing CIVELLO's attitude toward answering

any questions about the Apalachin meeting he had formulated

the opinion that the meeting was for an illegal purpose

and that those who attended have been warned that they are

not to discuss its purpose with anyone under any circumstances.

T-32 stated that he feels that the reorganization which he

believed to be the purpose of the meeting was not effected

because of the investigative attention the local, state and

federal agencies have been giving the meeting.

By airtel May 13, 1958, Philadelphia advised that

Confidential Informant T-33, who is widely acquainted in

the Italian underworld in Philadelphia and is probably one

of the best persons

in that area to develop infornation

concerning captioned meeting had been contacted on April 15,

29 and on May 7, 1958, but was unable to furnish any additional

information concerning any other neeting.

Philadelphia reported that at the time I-33 was

reactivated and contactea on January 20, 1955, he pornoed

out that the doubes of many concerning the existence. of

a mafia should now be settled in view

of the publicity

concerning the meeting of hoodlums

at Apalachin on November 14,

1957. T-33 said that he felt that the proof of the meeting,

together with the identity of the persons there and the amount

of ready cash on their person should be a concrete example

of the power held by the maria.

The informant advised that

from his contacts in South Philadelphia, he had learned that

this was a meeting of the bosses and under-bosses, but he

did not know the purpose of the meeting other than that

there was some indication of discussion of business which

concerned ALBERT ANASTASIA.

I-33 has referred to the mafia as the "organization"

and he insists that the

"organization". is the present day

mafia. In his description of the organization, its membership

and activities, according to Philadelphia, ne

has always

stated that to be a member one must be an

Italian, either from

the Old Country or a direct decendent thereor and must be

sponsored by a member of the organization.

He has pointed out

that by far

the majority of the members of the organization

originate either from sicily or from the Province of Coabrie

near the too of the boot in Italy.

Informant is from Calabria,

and is an alien.

He said there are a few individuals who are

believed by him

to be active with the organization whom he

believes originated from Napoli, Italy.

27

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 8

---

## Page 9

AL 62-1152

PAM: PAC

The following investigation was conducted by Special

Agents PATRICK A.

MUNLEY and JAMES C. MEE. on 4/28 and 5/1,2/58:

Confidential Informant Albany I- 34 whose reliability

is unknown at the present time due to the fact that there have

been only a few contacts

made with him, advised that he has

associated with JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. since March of 1955, and has

had access to the estate and home of JOSEPH BARBARA since that

He advised when he first became acquainted with Mr.

BARBARA

it was the usual routine for BARBARA to leave his

home about. 5 AM, in the morning to go to the Canada Dry Bottling

Company plant at Endicott, New York, and that he would return

home around 3 PM for his

meal and.

then would return to the plant

and return nome later in the evening.

He usually drove himself

to and from the plant and on his business trips around the .

Binghamton, New York area.

He stated that the home of JOSEPH BARBARA was always

well supplied with food and drink.

He related that in the

basement of the home canned goods, soup, soft drink, ice cream,

fish and other items are maintained in ice cream coolers, and that

also in a separate section of the basement are foods such as

oranges, grapefruit and other fruits.

He stated there was nothing

about the basement, no vaults or safes or any. locked rooms

maintained there.

He related that in the garage BARBARA maintains

a walk-in meat cooler, an ice cream freezer and a shelf-type

freezer wherein

meats

and vegetables are stored.

He stated that there is only one phone line into the

home of BARBARA, but there are connections from BARBARA's home

to the summer house and also to the two other homes that are

maintained on the BARBARA estatie. He related the phone connections

between the main home and the summer house and the two houses on

the estate are strictly house to house phones and not connected

with the main telephone line.

the years 1955-1956.:

He believed LUCILLE was

a nurse and

worked in a furniture store in Endiçott, New York.

He said he

also noticed that EMANUEL ZICARI visited BARBARA regularly. He

said that. from.what he observed ZICARI and BARBARA were old friends

frequently ZICARI brought his wife with him.

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691

---

## Page 10

AL 62-1152

He also advised that RUSSELL BUFALINO was a frequent

visitor at BARBARA's home.

He stated that from his reallection since 1955 there

have been

three what he would call big parties held at the home

Of JOSEPH BARBARA.

He stated that in the fall of 1955 a large

group of men was

at BARBARA's home.

He related that this group

numbered about 35 men; that in the Summer of 1957 there was

another large group of people, both men and women and this party

was considered an engagement party for BARBARA's daughter

ANGELA. The next large group that he recalls was on November 14,

1957.

• He related when each of

these groups was

BARBARA's home they appeared to be regular barbeques

where people were walking around the estate and steaks were

being

cooked and other food was being served to the guests.

At no other time he said that he noticed any large

gathering in BARBARA's home or on the estate.

He said that on

numerous occasions BARBARA had visitors at his home during the

day at which time they would have lunch and visit and then leave

the estate.

three of four individuals.

nervie uncheone never

He said these luncheons never included more than

In connection with the November 14, 1957, group he

related he had no advance notice that such a large group was

going to be at BARBARAS.

He said that on November 13, 1957, -

Mr• BARBARA to1d him in the early morning hours that

there was

an order of meat at Armour and Company

in Binghamton, New York,

to be picked up and

that he could pick it up anytime during that

day.: He said that this was the usual thing for him because he

has been doing the same thing since 1955, and had picked up

vegetables and fruit.at the Green Lantern, groceries from MoTighe

Groceries and other items at different stores at Endicott and

Binghamton, New York.

He

said that it was his job to see that the fireplaces

at the summer house always had charcoal and wood and it was his

recollection

that Mr. BARBARA asked him on the thirteenth whether

or not there was enough charcoal and wood at the fireplaces but

he is not sure of that.

32

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691 Page 10

---

## Page 11

AL 62-1152

He relates that he recalls' no activity at the

BARBARA home on the night of the thirteenth of November, but

that in the morning of November 14 around 9:30 to 10:00 AM

estate.

He said all of the visitors were men and there were no

•woren

visitors on that particular day:

He stated on the morning of November 14 the only

strange car that was on the estate was

a black Cadillac Sedan,

but that he did not know the license plate as to whether

it was from New York State or any other state.

He said that he did not pay any particular attention

to the people that were there on that date and did not know that

the New York State Police were checking the guests at BARBARA'S

house until about 7 or 7:30 PM in the evening when he went to the

Canada Dry Bottling Company to secure some parts to fix a pump

He said he went to the

Canada Dry Bottling Company and could not locate JOSEPH BARBARA,

JR. and then went to O'Brien's Heating and Plumbing at Endicott

to obtain a part there, and on his return to the estate was

stopped by the New York State Police at which time they asked

him. to identify himselr.and asked him what business he had at

BARBARA's estate.

He stated that during the day of November 14 he

did not notice any unusual activities such as any of the guests

going into the woods or leaving the estate.

On the morning of November 15, 1957, he said that he

saw a pink Lincoln and a dark colored sedan in BARBARA's, garage,

but he did not observe. any strangers at the house that day.

related that he was; not in BARBARA's home until November 17;

at which time he did not notice any strangers at the home.

i he stated that he has gathered no ideas from anyone

an the BARBARA family or anyone at BARBARA's home as to the reason

for the gathering there November 14, 1957.

stated that he observed that ANTHONY FRANK GUARNIERI

was at the BARBARA home early in the morning of November 14, 1957;

and he believes that he observed JOSEPH CAPALACES at one of the:

fireplaces that morning. He said he is

not sure of this

identification..

33

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 11

---

## Page 12

AL 62-1152

He related that Mr. BARBARA, SR. did not leave

the estate that morning, but

that JOSEPH BARBARA, JR. left

the estate with the BARBARA Cadillac., and came back with it

about 9 or 9:30 AM and then drove away again in one of the other

BARBARA cars.

return with

He related he did not see JOSEPH BARBARA,

the car and did

not know whether anyone was

it, but did see him driving away with one of the other cars.

He was shown a group of photographs of individuals

believed to be at BARBARA's on November 14, 1957, but stated

that he was unable to identify any others other than the ones

he mentioned above, because he did not pay particular attention

to the individuals.

and had spent most of his time that day working

on a pump that was out of order at the home that heresides in

on the estate.

He advised that during the year 1957 Mr. BARBARA

11l and did not follow his usual routine of going to

work daily.

He stated that in the Summer of 1957 he periodically

went to the Canada Dry Bottling plant for a few hours a day and

spent most of his time on the estate.

He said that during the

year he had gone to New York City, Buffalo and New Jersey for

several days

at a time, but generally he was accompanied by his

Since November 14, 1957, he related that BARBARA, SR.

has not left the estate and

have been very few callers

at BARBARA's home.

He related that EMANUEL ZICARI is a regular

caller and has generally been

coming to see the BARBARAs. on

Friday evenings around 5 or 6 PM, usually staying for one hour

and then leaving.

he related that during the past few months

there have been, several luncheons held at the BARBARA home at

which lawyers from the Endicott and Binghamton area have been

in attendance. He related that he believes that during the year

1957 Mr. BARBARA had more individual callers visiting at his

home than in the years 1955 and 1956.

He stated that he sees BARBARA generally daily and

that at the present time BARBARA does not 100k good to him and

has

indicated. to him that he does not feel too good.

'He stated

that Doctor BORELLI generally visits Mr. BARBARA every Sunday.

34

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691 Page 12

---

## Page 13

AL 62-1152

The report of New York State Commissioner ARTHUR L.

REUTER mentioned previously in this report, reflects that the

above meat was ordered on

November 5, 1957: Confidential

Informant I-34, mentioned

previously herein, advised that

he personally picked

up the order and delivered it to BARBARAS

on November 13, 1957.

Sr. LOUIS BORELLI, 106 Murray Street, Binghamton, New

York, advised. SA MUNLEY confidentially on March 6, 1958, that he

BARBARA, SR., as

a patient for the past year and during that time. he has seen

him many times at his home and at the Charles S. Wilson Memorial

Hospital, Johnson City, New York.

He related that BARBARA, SR., has a very bad heart

condition and that he believes that an operation performed

him, in early part of 1957 has been

responsible for his living

the year.

He said that he is very

bad right now and

excitement

would cause him grave trouble and may even kill him.

He said

that he has

under orders not to work and

engage, in any activity at all for the past year, but that he has

not been following these orders as strictly as he would like him

to do?

He said that in all his trips to BARBARA, SR. 's home,

he never noticed anything that would indicate that

BARBARA, SR.,

wa's

engaged in any illegal activity. During the summer, about

home especially to see

he was suffering

from a bad heart and gallstones. BORELLI stated

he told him he better return to his home and his own doctor

because he was in bad shape and could not survive an operation

which would be necessary because of the gallstone condition

he had at the time:

Hé stated that on another occasion he went to

BARBARA's home. to see a son of DAVE OSTICCO from Pittson,

Pennsylvania, who was also visiting BARBARA, and

this boy had

been

turned down by the Army because of a poor heart, but that

he examined him and found that he was in good health and certified

that the boy was in good health so thät he could enlist in the

Army.

- 51 -

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 13

---

## Page 14

AI, 62-1152

He stated that suites 1505, 1506, and 1507 were

especially used by these -ndividuals

and

"WAS

known that

DUNSELE BUFALINO, FRANKIE

CARRand JIMMy DOYLE utilized

the?

N4.

Suites.

hoods

CARBO and DOYLE, alias of JAMES PLUMERI, are top

of the New York Office:

BUFALINO is a Philadelphia top hoodlum.

Confidential Informant T-38, who resides at the

Forrest Hotel, advised in 1953, that the D & H TV Company

had offices on the second floor of the Forrest Hotel and was

freguented by EDDIE COCO and other well dressed Italian-looking

gangsters including ANTHONY CORRALLO, with alias TONY DUCKS,

and FRANKIE CARBO.

He added names M. GENOVESE and BILLIE BROWN appeared

on the D S # door.

CORRALLO iS

a top hood of the New York Office.

BROWN is a matchmaker for Madison Square Garden, New York City,

and EDDIE COCO is now

serving a life sentence in Florida State

Prison for murder.

On January 29, 1958, and February 14, 1958, I-38

advised SA EDWARD F. DE

ROSA that

the D& H IV is out of

business.

He stated he knows of no meetings having been held

at the Forrest Hotel by any'hoodlums. He also stated he knows

of no hoodlums who presently used the hotel as a hangout.

He

advised that the last couple of years

he has noticed no

individuals who "appear to be hoodlums" hanging around the

hotel and added that the hotel is now under new management.

on March 12, 1950, MABEL DOWNEY, Switchboard Operator,

forrest Hotel, advised SA VICTOR CARRELLI that the management

of that hotel has changed completely in March,: 1957, and

she

is

the only employee remaining. She stated

that many publicized

racketeers formerly frequented

that hotel, but no longer do

since the management policy changed and no longer caters to

the hoodlums.

She stated

she knows of no meetings having been

held at that hotel

by hoodlums in the past:

- 84 -

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 14

---

## Page 15

AL 62-1152

Attending

HOOC r?

LOMPARDOZZI

(Continued) :

ANTONIO

MACADDINO

(Buffalo)

STEVE

MAGADDINO

(Buffalo)

JOSEPH

MACLIOCCO

(New York)

En Route

Via

Companions

Companions

En Route

Return Via

Returning

2. REUTER's report reflects that

when stopped by State Police road-

block, LOMB4RDOZZI was in automo-

bile with EVOLA, RICCOBONO and

FRANK CUCCHIARA

of Bosion,

3. REVIER's report suggests

LOMBARDOZZ? possibly came by air

as he was an dost when questioned

by state Police,

this inconsistency

is not mane clear by the report. It

is noted EVOLA informed that he,

RICCOSONO, and LOMBARDOZZ] drove up

from New York City and this would

appear to be the best evidence

available.

4. REUTER's report reflects that at

the Del Motel on 11/13/57 were

CHARLES S.

CHERI and JOSEPH RICCO-

BONO.

EVOLA was at the Carlton

Hotel as set out above.

Automobile

of JOHN

MONTANA

JOHN

MONTANA

Automobile

JOHN MONTANA

1. As indicated in Buffalo letter

to Albany 4/11/58:

FK Law 10(a\2

Automobile (?) JAMES

and it is assumed they

returned in the same fashion in

maich they arrived,

It is not known

whether MONTANA returned direcoly to

Burfalo or note

Unknown

Unknown

LA DUCA (?)

1. See Above under JAMES V. LA DUCA

for supporting data.

Automobile

JOSEPH

PROFACI

Automobile JOSEPH PROFACI

105

63-4436-171

NW 45836

DocId: 32332691

Page 15

---

## Page 16

AL 62-1152

what was the purpose of the meeting at JOSEPH BARBARA'S Apalachin

estate.

He said the only thing he obtained in his conversations

was that the

"Big Men"

were meeting.

The informant added that by

"Big Men"

was probably meant JOSEPH BARBARA, SROS COHN CO MONLANA,

and others.

The informant said he could not find out exactly why

they had been at BARBARA'S.

Confidential Informant Albany I-28, mentioned previously

herein, advised SA'S MUNLEY and JAMES C. MEE On April 18, 1958,

that JOSEPH BARBARA, Shoa from his observations of the sicillans

whom he alleged composed the group meeting, would be about number

3 on number 4 man in the group leadership.

The informant said

that the group which had met at BARBARA's was made up of mostly

"muscle men"

and apparently few

of the real leaders of the Sicilians.

The informant

said he believed that WILLIAM MEDICO of Pittston,

Pennsylvania, should have been at the meeting because he belleved

that MEDICO was directly under SANTO VOLPE and was considered a

big man in the Sicilian group. The informant said he thought that

"SWIMNEY" DI BELIA of Pittston

whom he identified as "sLuGGer" Pennsylvania, and another individual

of Pittston, were probably at the

meeting and that "SLUGGER' had been a chauffeur for SANTO VOLPE and

had driven him many times to New York City. .

The informant said that from his observations in the

Binghamton-Endicott, New York area JOSEPH BARBARA, SR, does not

have any one individual who would be known as his

righthand man."

He said that BARBARA is looked upon in the area by the Sicilians

there as a

"king" and may be the head of the sicilian group there.

from his. own knowledge and

follow orders to kill someone,

such as ALBERT ANASTASIA, It was

the informant's opinion that ALBERT ANASTASIA waS murdered by the:

Sicilian 'group because he was

endeavoring to take control of It.

Confidential Informant Albany I-36, previously mentioned

herein, advised SA PATRICK A. MUNLEY on April 21, 1958, that he

had obtained information concerning instant meeting from conversa-

tiors with ANTHONY FRANK GUARNIERI, hoodlum who attended instant

meeüing.

the meeting, he ascertained that the

The informant said that on ques mening GrAnNIoRI about

at the meeting were

JOHN MONTANA (Buffalo); SAVERIO and PASQUALE MONACHINO (Aubura, NoY)

RUSSELL BUFALINO (Pittston, Pa.), representing SANTO VOLPE of

PREEStONS JOSEPH aNd SALVITORO FALCONE (ULICA, NIO) VITO GENOVASE

(Newark); and a few others whose names he could not recall,

said the

rest of the individuals at the meeting were chauffeurs and

bodyguards.

118

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 16

---

## Page 17

AL 62-1152

previously mentioned herein, succinctly characterizes captioned

meeting as follows:

"Ihe convergence of these men, many

from considerablo distances, at Apalachin on November 13 and

14, clearly indicates a planned meeting.

Their accommodations

were reserved in advance by the BARBARAS, their food was

ordered in advance.

The fact that several traveled by airline

under false names indicates that their purposes were secret."

contacted on a number of occasions in

Confidential Informant Aloany I-46 has been

respect to instant

meeting and he said that he has talked to aMANUEL ZICARI,

PASQUATE TURRIGIANO and BARTOLO GUCCIA, all of whom attended

the captioned meeting and in his conversations with these

individuals, I-46 said, he has been unable to develop, any

information indicating

the reasons why the group met:

He said

that in his conversations with them the best information he

could obtain from them was the fact that BARBARA,

i SR. had been

a very sick man for the past year and that these

individuals

were all old friends of BARBARA and wore visiting him because

of that reason.

The informant said that he is now making

efforts. to locate a mutal friend of the mentioned hoodlums

who attended the meeting who might be able to furnish him with

information obtained from them.

Confidential Informant Albany I-8 has been interviewed

on a number of occasions and ne advised that he has been in

conversation with JOSEPH MARCONI (brother of LOUIS MARCONI,

associate of some Apalachin höodlums particularly INTHONY F.

GUARNIERI) on several occasions but has been unable to develop

any Information from MARCONI regarding the reason for the

meeting. : The informant said he has more or less steered

the conversation to this: particular affair but has been unable

to get any response from MARCONI other than that a group of

Italian friends met to have a big affair; meaning, eating,

drinking and gambling.

The informant will continue his efforts

to ascertain the reason for the meeting.

Confidential Informant Albany I-52 advised that

over 20 or 25 years ago the subject, JOSEPH BARBARA, SR., was:

known to have been an associate: of SANTO VOLIE, West Pittston,

Pennsylvania. I-52 related that VOLPE and others in the

Pittston area were associated in coal mining activities. He

stated that all the Italians who are known today as hoodlums,

engaged in gambling and other activities, mostly originate

from

the

Pittston, Pennsylvania area and

that SANTO VOLPE was

considered the boss of all the Italians in the area.

-131-

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 17

---

## Page 18

AI 62-1152

By airtel May 8, 1958, the Newark Office Informed the Bureau that

Lieutenant JOHN HUNT (NA) of the New Jersey State Police had told SA's MARTIN J.

GASS and OLIN E. JESSUP on May 8; 1958, that a source had informed him that

ANGELO BRUNO Of Philadelphia, Penrsylvania, then residing in Miami, Florida,

was in the process of selling all his holdings in Philadelphia and allegedly is

getting ready to move in on the gambling in Cuba.

The same source also stated, according to Lieutenant HUNT, that the

Apalachin meeting had been called for the purpose of each member contributing

$10,000 to a fund which was to be used in backing FIDEL CASTRO (Cuban Rebel

Leader) in his attempt to take over the control of Cuba. In return for this

support, they would obtain the concession forgambling in Cuba.

In addition

some of the money was allegedly to be used in Caracas, Venezuela, to set up

gambling establishments. Lieutenant HUNT pointed out

further that Attorney

ANGELO MALANDRA of Camden, New Jersey, who represents "the mob" and who was also

the Deputy Mayor öf Camden until recently, had taken a trip to south America

about a year ago and was alleged to have gone there to see about obtaining

concessions for gambling:

Confidential Informant I-36, previously mentioned, informed on

April 21, 1958, that ANTHONY F. GUARNIERI, hoodlum who attended instant meeting,

during conversations has told him that captioned meeting included as one of

the matters discussed "Havana

gambling" since LOUIS SANTOS from Cuba was

there

for only a short time and was in BARBARA'S home talking-to the "big men."

The

inforant said that he did not get any information on the "big men" because

GUARNIERI said he did not know who was. in there and there were so many around

the place that everybody was moving around in and out of the house and he did

not know whom SANTOS was actually talking to at the time he

was there.

6. Ot'er Gambling

I...36 also said that on another occasion when he talked to GUARNIERI,

GUARNIERI told him that the money men in the group at Apalachin had been

connected with gambling (horse rooms, bookmaking, dice games, etc.) where they

have put their money into small operations of other individuals and built up the

operations with their connections. He said they would take a

and

give him financial backing and then "throw their business" to him from

other sections of the country. He saia GUARNIERI told him that if the small

bookie did not cooperate, then the money men would cut out his facilities for

getting results and blacklist bim with the group, or, according to GUARNIERI,

if they were in a gambling room operation and did not cooperate with the money

men when the money men became interested in them, they would make it miserable

for the gambling room operation so that it would be forced out of business by

frequent arrests or lack of business.

The informant commented that GUARNIERI has been a lottery ticket

operator in the past but has not been in this racket since 1948 and that

GUARNIERI is a small-time gambler and could not do any big-time gambling because

he does not have anything.

The informant said he has been trying to make a

living at the dress manufacturing business but has not been too successful at

= 148 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 18

---

## Page 19

AL 62-1152

that operation either. (The informant. meant GUARNIERI had been trying to make

a living at the dress manufacturing business.)

In connection with the lottery, attention is directed to the

interview of AMEDEO BERSANI of Syracuse, New York, previously set out in this

report:

BERSANI advised the agent that he thought the Apalachin meeting had

been held in regard to lotteries.

BERSANI also stated that VITO GENOVESE, who

was in attendance, was the outstanding lottery organizer and operator in the

United States today and the Apalachin group needed him because of his know-how.

and ability to make connections,.

although he is not a Sicilian.

By airtel February 26, 1958, Dallas advised the Bureau that

Confidential Informant T-59 had informed that he has known the CIVELLO family

all of his life and went to school with CHARIES CIVELLO, brother of JOSEPH

FRANCIS CIVELLO, who attended instant meeting.

The informant said that he was

aware of the "setup" in regard to

JOSEPH CIVELLO'S visit to Apalachin, New York. He said that CIVELLO was invited

to attend but was reluctant to furnish details of the invitation.

The informant indicated that "they" wanted to know from CIVELLO

the present political setup in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and whether Dallas

would be good for certain organized. activity at this time such as gambling

devices, headquarters for a narcotics route to the east or other interests..

CIVELLO stated, according to informant, that Dallas had never had.

an organized syndicate and never would have one:

According to the informant,

CIVELT further pointed out to the group that there weresnall-time gaublers

and other hoodlums on individual bases who had operated in the past but they

never had any national connection. By letter dated May 5, 1958, Dallas advised

that this informant has been unable to furrish any further information

concerning this matter:

On May 12, 1958, Confidential Informant I-60 advised SA PATRICK A.,

MUNLEY that he was in Buffalo, New York, when the Apalachin meeting took place

on November 14; 1957, and when the information appeared in the newspapers, all

the hoodlums in Buffalo discussed it to some extent at the various bars there.

The informant said that from all the conversation he heard, no one had

information concerning the reason for the meeting.

The presumption by all was

that it had to do with the rackets, gambling, narcotics and illegal alcohol.

that another group of people who knew the individuals

had attended the meeting was surprised that these

individuals were associated with the group

at Apalachin because the Buffalo

individuals had such good reputations and were in legitimate businesses at Buffalo

and vicinity.

He said one of the individuals was closing his bar and restaurant

because of the publicity of the Apälachin meeting.

The informant said he did

not know the name of this individual but thought it was CARLISI. (ROY CARLISI

of Buffalo is a bar owner.)

- 149 = :

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 19

---

## Page 20

AL 62-1152

8. Raising Bunds to Influence Officials

On April 22, 7958, Confidential Informant I-62, considered in the

past-a major hoodlum with particular connections with bootlessing and gambling

and now "legitimate," advised in connection with captione meeting that he haà

no personal information about why it was held and had not received any

information from anyone who attended it. He said, however,

that it was certain

the purpose of the meeting was financial.

The informant said. that this was the

only possible explanation based on his years of experience with hoodlums. of this

type. He said that the only explanation of the wide attendance including

peopls from the West Coast, Texas, etc. was that-the meeting had a fund-raising

purpose or, in the informant's words, that they were "settin together a

jackpot" to influence legislation of fgr investments.

It is noted that SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. was at the meeting and it would

appear logical that a prime investment considered was the Havana gambling

enterprise mentioned previously in instant report.

In this connection, Confidential Informant I-63\advised SA EDMUND I.

MC NAMARA of Boston (as previously reported, page 13, report of SA ARTHUR V."

March 5, 1958, Albany) that on the evening of February 9, 1958, SAM

Apalachin meeting had caused a lot of trouble. ROSENCRANZ. allegedly said he

understood that the purpose of the meeting was (1) to discuss the murder of

ALBERT ANASTASIA and (2) to see if the group could get together with certain

law enforcement officials and make a deal whereby they would stop the importation

of narcotics from Europe and in return would be allowed to run gambling

enterprises in their various locations without hindrance from law enforcement

officials.

9. ALBERT ANASTASIA Operations

As previously set forth in the report of SA ARTHUR V. HART dated

March 5, 1958, at Albany, a number of sources has advised that

the Apalachin

meeting was called for the purpose of discussing what was to be done about

ALBERT ANASTASIA'S operations.

By airtel May 6, 1958, New York acuised that a review reflected that

ALBERI ANASTASIA had the following alleged interests:

Date in respect to ANASTASIA'S apparent attempt to obtain the

gambling concession at the Havane Hilton Hotel in Cuba have previously been

set forth.

ANASTASIA was a powerful boss of the New Jersey-New York

waterfront, according to the New York City Anti-Crime Committee.

ANASTASIA

hat strong

control over the East River piers and the Brooklyn piers with control

of shylocking,numbers, bookmaking and narcotics on these piers.

- 1522-

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691

Page 20

---

## Page 21

ÁI, 62-1152

at the meeting were interested in.

The informant said that he was not personally acquainted with JOSEPH

FRANCIS CIVILLO of Dallas, Texas, who attended the meeting, but was acquainted

with I-67 fron Dallas who he thought would be acquainted with CIVELLO and

would certainly be in a position to know individuals in Dailas who would know

CIVELLO and who could, in his opinion, obtain from CIVELLO the reason ne

attended the Apalachin meeting.

Confidential Informant I-36 advised on May 9, 1958, that he had had

one coltact with ANTHONY F. GUARNIERI since last interviewed.

He said he asked

GUARNIRI what was going on at the meeting and GUARNIERI told him that the

"money men" were "figuring things out."

had given him similor infornation in the past. He said that GUARNIERI then

a caved chan sent 1e

The informant said that GUARNIERI

explained that frow the conference of the "noncy men" some one or two of the

group are told that they are going to be set up in some business someplace

where it is thought that the business involved would be a good business. The

informant asserted that GUARNIERI said it might be a legitimate business or a

horse room, lottery or other specialty like. that.

The informant said he asked

GUARNIERI if anything was decided on the day of the meeting and GUARNIERI told

him that he did not know but thought it broke up too fast for any decision to

be made.

Confidential Informant I-28 advised SA PATRICK A. MUNIEY and SA

JAMES C. MEE on May 1, 1958, that SALVATORE ALECCIA, friend of ANTHONY E.

GUARNIERI, who attended instant meeting, told him on the night of April 29, 1958,.

that the meeting was for the purpose of introducing the younger men to the older

men in the group and for dividing and assigning territory. The informant said

that he could not get any other infornation.

12• Illegal Alcohol

• It is noted that a major portion of the hoodlums in attendance at

captioned meeting heve prohibition violations and bootlegging experience in

their bockgrounds.

It appears logical that they are currently involved in some

instances in illicit alcohol operations.

Confidential Informant I-63, previously mentioned, for example has

advised that: SAM ROSENCRANZ, FRANK CUCCHIARA'S "Front man, told him on

January 10, 1958, that he had an illicit still apparently operating in Rhode

Island and, without specifically stating, indicated that FRANK CUCCHIARA was

financial backer in this still.

By letter dated February 6, 1958, the Buffalo Office advised that

JOHN FOY, NA, New York State Safety Commission, who conducted an investigation

relating to the: Apalachin meeting for Governor AVERELL HARRIMAN Of New York,

told. SAC WESLEY G. GRAPP that his investigation indicated a principal reason

for the meeting was arrangements for obtaining sugar to manufacture illegal

' alcohol without it being traced. FOY was reinterviewed by Buffalo and on

- 155 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 21

---

## Page 22

AL 62-1152

Inforant said, he heard. NICK ALAIMO (DCMINICK ALAIMO who attended instant

meeting) and SAMMY DI BELLA, associates of RUSSELL BUFALINO (who attended

instant meeting) discussing the puryose of the meeting and they in their

conversations said that this was

the purpose of the meeting.

The informant related that the only one who told him directly the

purpose of the meeting was LEONARD BLANDINA but added that on three other

occasions he overheard conversations indicating this was the purpose of the

meeting.

He said BLANDINA did not institute or commence these conversations

but they were conversations by ALAIMO and DI BELIA.

The informant said the instant meeting was to include jobbers,

manufacturers, truckers and others who would have only a financial interest

and the meeting was for the purpose of deciding what proportion or what interest

or what phase of the operation each would have when they took conürol of the

industry. The informant

sain they intended eventually to put pressure on

buyers to force them to buy garments from their group.

The informant stated that SCIANDRA and his

associates in the Pittston

area intended to completely dominate the area from Binghamton, New York, to

Buffalo, New York, as they had assurance that they would have garment trucking

rates. from that area to New York City guaranteed to them. It was their

intention

to use the plant of SCIANDRA for cutting and distribution and any garment...

manufacturer in Northern New York would be forced to operate through SCIANDRA'S

plan, according to informant.

15. Control of Vending Machine Business

As previously set out in the report of SA ARTHUR V. HARI dated

March 5, 1958, at Albany, page 21, Confidential Informant I-22 advised that

THOMAS ALOYSIUS MARINO, was., a New York top hoodlum, said that the

\palachin meetine was for the purpose of orcanizing the vendine machine business

throughout the United States.

The informant said he got the inpression from

MARINO that this would include slot machines as well as jule boxes and cigarette

machines. MARINO mentioned, that he and JOHNNY ROBILOTTO controlled this

organizational drive in Brooklyn, New York.

I. MEETING BROKEN UP BEFORE COMPLETION OF AGENDA

As previously set forth in Albany airtel to Bureau May 12, 1958,

the New York State Police surveillance of instant meeting was set up on the

early afternoon of November 14, 1957, and was detected by persons at BARBARA'S

residence shortly thereafter. As has

previously been reported in several

instances, persons fled through the woods to escape the roundup and were located

by the police.

It is indicated that the meeting was rather rudely and abruptly

terminated when the police activity was detected and it would thus appear that

the meeting had not gone to its contemplated conclusion.:

- 157 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 22

---

## Page 23

AL 62-1152

JEK Act 6 (4)

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS

T-3

PCI

Buffalo Division.

T-4

New York Confidential Informant NY 169-0.

T-6

Albany PCI

a salesman for

Canada Dry

tering Company of Endicott, Inc., over

10 year period.

Albany POI

Private Detective,.

Binghanton,

New York.

T-16 Buffalo Confidential Informant BU 14-C.

T-19

Detroit Confidential Informant DE 370-C, an individual

on the secondary leadership level of the LICAVOLI-

BOMMARITO-RUBINO Group in Deuroit,

according to Detroit

Letter to the Director dated May 16, 1958.

T-22 New York Confidential Informant. NY 2151-C.

T-25

T- 28

Pittsburgh Confidential Informant PG 514-C.

Albany PCI

Apalachin, New York,

operator of Tony's Inn, Route 17.

T - 29

EDWARD VITKUS, Intelligence Unit, U.S. Treasury Department,

Binghamton, New York.

T- 30

SAMUEL A. KLUGER, Cashier, First National Bank of Wyoming,

Wyoming;

Pennsylvania

T-31

Miami Informant MM 647 PC,

as related in Miami airtel to

Albany dated April 17, 1958.

T-52

Pittsburgh attorney, who is very close

to

Mayor LAWRENCE of Pittsburgh and whom rumor links to

racket figures..

He is assistant solicitor of the City of

Pittsburgh and acts in a liaison capacity between Mayor

LAWRENCE and the Governor, through contact with Senator

head of the Democratic Party in Pennsylvania.

Toffice is 400 Bakewell Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.

-167-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 23

---

## Page 24

JFK Act 6 (4)

AL 62-1152

T-33

Philadelphia Confidential Informant PH 251-0, as

In Philadelphis airtel dated May 13, 1958.

set out

T-34

Albany PCI|

an employee on the estate

i TO HOOdIE JOSEPH BARBARA, SR. Employed since March,

1955.

T-35

of all local telephone calls from the home of JOSEPH

BARBARA, SR., for a period of a year.

I - 36

Albany PC.

Binghamton, New York.

T-37

FRED LUSSEN, Inspector, Manhattan West Detectives, New

York

City Police Department,

T- 38

New

York PCI

a resident of the Forrest Hotel,

New. York City,

as quoted In New York airtel to the

Director dated March 13, 1958.

T- 39

Buffalo Division, as set out on Page 3,

Buffalo letter to Albany dated April 11, 1958.

I-40

Deputy Inspector GREEN, Manhattan West Detective

Division,

New York City Police Department.

I-41 Detective JOHN J. O'FLAHERTY, New York City Police Department.

T-42 Kansas City PCI

T-44

Albany dated April: 2, 1958.

ROBERT MC GUINESS, New York State Joint Legislative.

Committee on Government Operations (Watchdog Committee),

217 Broadway, New York City, who furnished information to

SA WILLIAM DAVID KANE, March

10, 1958, as In New York airtel

to Albany dated May 14, 1958.

-168-

NN 45836 DocId: 32332691

Page 24

---

## Page 25

AL 62-1152

I-45: Lieutenant JOSEPH SUAREZ, 25th Precinct, Detective Squad,

New York City Police Department, who furnished

information to SA HUGH G. FORD, February, 15, 1958.

T-46 Albany PCI

Binghamton, New York.

I-47 Albany Confidential Informant AL 2937-C.

I-48 Albany PCI

I-49 Albany PCI

I-50 Albany PCI

T-51 Albany PCI

T-52

MARTIN HOLLERAN, Coal Dealer, Binghamton, New York, who

has furnished reliable information in the past.

T-53

Unidentified source in Potter Bánk and Trust Company,

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,

as set sut in Pittsburgh

airtel to Albany dated. April 16, 1958.

T-54

FBI representative (Legat, Havan:)

JFK Act 6 (4)

T-55

Miami Confidential; Informant MM 416-C,

as set out in

report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE dated February 20, 1958,

Miami, entitled

"SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AR."

I-56 JULIO HERNANDEZ, Sales Manager, Hotel Nacional, Havana,

Cuba, as quoted in report of sA LAbadIE, above.

T-57 PCIl

Racing Director, Oriental Park

Race

Track, Havana,

cuba, as in the above report of

SA LABADIE.

I-58

Former SA GEORGE MC SWAIN,

as in Bureau letter to Legat,

Havana.

dated March 5, 1958,

captioned "AMERICAN

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA.

T-59

Dallas PCI

as in Dallas airtel

February 26,

1958.

-169-

NW 45836 DooId: 32332691 Page 25

---

## Page 26

AL 62-1152

T-60

JOHN FORMATO, formerly pimp, gambler and racket operator

in Binghamton, New York area, who has been working

legitimately near Buffalo, New York, for the past five

years.

I-61

Boston PCI

as set out in report of SA

EDMUND L. MC

NAMARA, May 5, 1958., Boston.

T-62

Albany Confidential Informant AL 2990-C, a leading

gambling operator in Saratoga Springs, New York, and

former well known bootlegger and owner at one time or

another of three of the most prominent gambling

casinos in Saratoga Springs when Saratoga Springs was

"open"

and considered in the past to be a major hoodlum

although now "legitimate.

T-63 Boston Confidential Informant BOS 692-C.

JFK Act 6 (4)

T-64 Albany Confidential Informant AL 2841-C.

T-65 Kansas City Confidential Informant KC 254-C.

T-66

ANTHONY FERTITTA, as described in Houston airtel to

Director dated May 29, 1958, captioned "DOP HOODLUM

PROGRAM - WEEKLY SUMMARY.

I- 67

Philadelphia PCI

Philadelphta pinter to the Director daved has no

as set out in

captioned " TOP HOODLUM- PROGRAM, WEEKLY SUMMARY."

28, 1958,

-170-

NO 45936

DocId: 32332691 Page 26

---

