# docid-32310179

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10302-10123

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-1ST NR 137, 2ND NR 137

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

CIT

FROM: DAVIDSON, I. IRVING

TO: GRAY, L. PATRICK

TITLE :

DATE: 07/25/1972

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

IID, REQ, MEETING, ASSOC, ZEIRA, ELIE MAJOR GENERAL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : . INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR, R/S

v9.1

DocId: 32310179

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

44

AT.=

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

2-7-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/SP

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

MOHR

MR. ROSEN

i*MR. BATES

MR. BISHOP

MR. CALLAHAN

MR. CAMPBELL

MR. CASPER -

1-11-95

Classified by 5p & mAc/KSe

Declassify e:

MR. CLEVELAND

MR. CONRAD -

•MR. DALBEY -

MR. 10 Es.

MR. PONDER -

MR. SOYARS

MR. WAIKART

FOR THE OFFICiAL RECONNA MARTEN

TELE, ROOM

MR. KINLEY .

MR. ARMSTRONG-

Pre Du inden ten tea

a half dozen tries but no more.

Had lunch with heim ones. Epchange

Chustres cards taed year. Hid

Not see hen egain niched hust recei

cia local restaurant, ith hame

Jowei a Trade lee's. Laid hello

I thint was it. Daris not see ZerRd(Ul)

undres su on intereat to do so E

FILES 4:10 Pon

+ 05-11635-249

114

AUG

1972

149 AUG M

ROT RECORSET

221423-

ALL

INFORMATION

toa

NEMEN

IS UNCLASSIFIED

WHERE SHOWA

OTHERWISE

SECRET

SMAUGS 1972

DocId: 32310179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records 'Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

2-1423-

1

MI. Bishop

-.

Mr. Bates

1

MI.

E. S. Miller

- Mr.

Decker

1. - Mr. T. H. George

July 28, 1972

1-11-95

classified hy 5pi8. mAC/KSR

Declassily on:

DADA (JFK)

Mr. I. Irving Davidson

Suite 806 City Building

1612 K Street, N.

W.

Washington D. C.

20006

Dear Mr. Davidson:

I have received your letter of July 25, 1972, and

• regret that my commitments are such that I cannot arrange a

meeting such as you request.

sincerely yours,!

Io Patrick Gray III

TAG: 11m

(7)

1522

I.. Patrick Gray, III

Acting Director

ALL INFORMATION CONTADEA

NEXEI IS DAGLASSIFIED

EXSCOT WHERE SHOWS

OZIERWISE

NOD8 :

$ 1972

JUL?!

TEB

#Attached memorandum A. J. Decker to Mr. E. S. Miller,

1/20/12, States Davidson, currently under indictment for vio

ration of the National Bankruptcy Act, Suggested to Major Genera

allahu

Zeira, Defense

Chat he.

* Armed Forces Attache, Embassy of Israel,

Zeira, should meet with Acting Director Gray prior to

effasleaving his present post.

Davidson indicated he was willing

to make the necessary arrangements.

Felt

Bates

Bishop

Callahan

Campbeli

Cleveland

Conrad

Dalhey

Jenkins

Marshall

Miller, E.S

Ponder

Soyars

Walters

Tele. Room-

Mr. Kinley -

Mr. Armatrong.

Ms. Herwis

Mrs!

AUMERONT

Attached fetter fron Davidson indicates General zeira

suggested to Davidson that he

would like to meet with Acting

Director Gray and requests such a meeting to be arranged.

E BI

EM

COENA

TELETYPE UNIT L

SECRET

Vati

DocId: 32310179 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

1Y8T74T USC 2107 Note):

Bfr. Folt

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Balca

Mr.

Mr.

'Cal nora

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

SUITE 806 CITY BUILDING

1612 K STREET, N. W.

WASHINGTON 6, D. G.

DISTRICT 7-3-400

Mr. Carabell

Mr. Cleveland

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Dolbey

Mr. Jenkins

Mr. Marshall

Mr. MINer, E.S.

Mr. Ponder

Mr. Soyars

Mr. Walterg

Tele Rest

25 July, 1972

Mr. Kinley

Mr. Armstrong

Ms. Herwig —

Mis. Neenan -

Mr. L. Patrick Gray

Acting Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Pennsylvania Avenue at 9th Street, N.W.

Washington, D.C.

Dear Pat:

1-11-95

Graffic By Sp& MAC/KSR

Declassify on.

GAD (JFK)

10828-2498/0

Over the past years, I have enjoyed a close, personal

friendship with Major General Elie Zeira, Defense Attache of the

Israel Embassy. General Zeira is leaving his position in Washington

and returning to Israel, where he will replace General Aaron Yariv,

Director of Military Intelligence for the Government of Israel.

(General Yariv was Military Attache in Washington in 1959, and I am

also privileged to have his close friendship.)

-DAVIDSON

1/58122

IM

THE

Both these gentlemen have long been great admirers of

the F.B.l., and General Zeira suggested to me that he would like to

meet with you informally, if your schedule will permit, before he leaves

his post in early August. If such a meeting is possible, arrangements can

be made through me, or by calling General Zeira at 483-5910.

: 04% 2

Very truly yours,

A fring Dandson

1. Irving Davidson

PRO

JULES 1972

I1D/1h

14 AUG

1972

+114

Copy mado for told. Ru.

1/25/22

unic

SECRET

183. AUG T

1972

DocId: 32310179

Page 4

---

