# docid-32334556

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10262

• RECORD SERIES: . MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-4921-50

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PARSON

• TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE: 09/24/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DooId: 32334556

Page

1

12

---

## Page 2

i a.

Ft. Pierce,

Florida

September 24, 1964

MEMO, SAC (105-4921)

RE: "MINUTEMEN"

INFORMATION CONCERNING

Re letter from Kansas City to Director dated 9/4/64.

The following investigation was conducted in regard

to DANNY DE WITT who was listed in Chicago airtel to Bureau

7/22/64 as residing at 5706 Citrus Avenue, Ft. Pierce, Fla.

9/17/61 NES. JEAN ROGERS, Credit Bureau of Ft. Pierce

advised that the records of that office reflect DANNY dE WITt,

2810 Delaware Ave•

Ft. Pierce, as Program Director and Disc

Jockey for Radio Station WAXE, Vero Beach, Florida.

file reflects he was divorced

from Elizabeth De Witt on 6/15/64;

He is reflected as being slow in payment of obligations.

On 9/17/64 Sgt. JAMES BRITCHER, Ft. Pierce PD and

Deputy JOHN HARRISON, Ft. Pierce SO both stated that the

records of their respective departments failed to reflect

any record of arrest for DANNY DE WITT.

C. R. STEVERSON, 2810 Delaware Ave., Ft. Pierce, advised

that DE WITT had not resided at that address for some time

and

was elieved to have moved to Vero Beach, Fla.

On 9/17/64 Mrs. KITH ELI, Credit Bureau of Vero Beach,

vero Beach, Fla. advised that her records reflect DANNY DE WITT

3

as Program

Director of Radio Station WAXE, Vero Beach.

file revealed no derogatory information and reflected

DE WITT resided at 1003 20th St., Vero Beach. His wife was

reflected as BEVERLY.

Detective CARL PEASE, Vero Beach PD advised the files

of that office fail to reveal any record of arrest for

DANNY DE WITT.

Viet tie:'

6416

On 9/17/04 V.A. SLINGERLAND, 1003 20th Sto advised that

his brother-in-law GEORGE PrARk, (Narathon, Fla. formerly re-

sided at that address when DANNY DENITT was a roomer.

Several

weeks ago DE "ITT left without notice after being several weeks

behind in his rent. He has no knowledge as to DE WITT's where-

abouts.

STARCINED

UL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SERIALIZED A FUT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SEP 2 5 1964

DATE 12/29/85 BYSP&BT. Q

211.0766

101 - 492

- 30

HH 53074 DocId: 32334556

Page 2

---

## Page 3

=.

On 9/17/64 JAMES SHARPE, Radio Station WAXE, Vero Beach,

Fla. advised that DE WITT was

a Disc Jockey of western and

folk music for a short period of time by that station.

not been in their employ for several weeks and was last be-

lieved to be in construction work (operating a drag line)in the

Ft. Pierce, Fla. area.

Mrs. BEVERLY DE WITT

A & P Store,

Sunrise Shop-

she is the ex-wife of

DANNY DE WITT.

by her to be residing with a Mrs. CHURCH at 3707 Okeechobee

Road, Ft. Pierce.

on 9/23/64 Mrs. T.C. CHURCH, 3707 Okeechobee Rd., Ft.

Pierce advised that DANNY

DE WITT married her neice and re-

sided at her address rent free for several weeks.

She said

they have had considerable finäncial difficulty and sidness

with their seven month old baby that was born prematurely.

She said that DE WITT was working with Dickerson Construction

Co. but was laid off a few weeks ago.

She said that on

9/15/64 DE WITT and his wife left saying he was looking for

work.

He would not say where he was going as several "bill

collectors" were looking for him and he did not want her to

have to lie for him.

She said she had talked to her sister

that morning who is

the mother of DE WITT's wife and she has

no idea as to their whereabouts.

on 9/17/64 HOWARD MASTERS, Racial Informant (Prob) and

on 9/23/64 JAMES HAMBLIN, Confidential Source (Racial) were

contacted in this matter:

Both stated they did dot know

DANNY DE WITT except as possibly having heard him on the radio.

Each saad

they had no knowledge of a group known as the

"Minutemen" and doubted that there was a unit of this organ-

ization in the Ft. Pierce-Vero Beach, Fla. area.

On 9/21/64 MM 842-R advised that captioned organization

and DANNY DE WITT are unknown to him.

HAROLD K. PARSON

SA

HH 53074

DocId: 32334556

Page 3

---

