# docid-32307996

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10293-10354

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 87-57043-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/20/1960

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

NRO, BUSS, REL, ASSOC, MONEY ORDERS THEFT, WA

FEDERAL SAVINGS AND LOAN CO., MM BEACH, FL, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32307996

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD 8(701 12-13-50)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

DEC 21) 1960

(Type in plair lexe or code)

AIRMAILL

(Priorisy or Method of Mailing)

TO;

DIRECTOR, FRI

FROM:

SAC, MIANT

(87-NEW)

9

SURTECT:

NORMAN ROTHMAN;,

MAURICE STANLEY STRET

Theft of Money Orders

Pfrom

Washington Federal Savings

and Loan

Fla.

- Miami Beach,

IT'S?; FRA

7

coplos mada"?

448/28 U56/24

ESCA 5918/2/72 mcguesto

(Sco Dutile 90s-117290)

on December 8,

1960, MM 722-C advised SA PRUE

C. CLINKSCALES, he had learned NORMAN ROTHMAN, WhO nOW

operates lounge at Belaire Hotel, 6515 Collins Avenue,

Miami Beach,

Fla, had access to what ROTHMAN referred

"personal money orders" which were being

"lifted"

by an unidentified employee of an unknown Federal

Savings & Loan Association in the Miami Beach' or Miami

ROTHMAN claimed this employee was filling 1ni:

varying amounts on the money orders with check protector

at the institution, amounts ranging up to $1900.00,

leaving space blank for name of payee. Informant

understood money orders are in quadruplicate, and when

sold the purchase. obtains original

and one copy, third

copy kept by Issuing Savings & Loan Association, and

fourth copy mailed to unknown branch of Hanover Bank

in New York City on which bank these

money orders are

drawn. Informant understood name of selling institution

4. Bureau

(AM)

MCT - 2

(1)

(137-6257)

2 . New York city

24) LAM)

REC. 43

3 - Miam

{1) (137-2065)

B" DEC 22 1860

PCC/gty

( 11)

88-57043

57 F 4 8 1960

Special AgendabAL

Sent

Per

shara

137.6257-

ii

DocId: 32307996 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM :87-New

aLT"ars on money order and no signature of bank official 1s

required.

Cr. 29/10,50, MM 722 Advised unsdentifled employee

of Washlopton Federal

Savinge & Loan Association reportedly

deiivered a number of such money orders to ROTHMAN on

Ibs., dark or black hair, wears horn rim glasses, Jewish

extrection, abcut 22-25 yrs of age.

This Individual reported

close asseclate of SANTI ROTHMAN, SOn Of NORMAN ROTHMAN and

strident at Unirersity of M18w1.

Informart learned that ROTHMAN kad furnished a

nümber it

such money erders te one MORRIS or MAURICE (INU),

part owner of Ericklre M. B.

Iounge, Miami Beach

rigntelut, 2000 Fack svenue, Miami Beach. Informant learned

this Individugl was taking these money orders to Puerto Rico

weekend of 12/10/50, for cashing.

MORRIS or MAURICE (INU)

since Identified as

MAURICE STANLEY STREN, FBI #146278D, who

with ils riother WILLTAM STEEN formerly operated cheap bar

in downtewn Miarl, tut row are past wers of Rocking M.

Inunge, Mland Bench.

informant

on 12/13/50, advised unidentified savings

and Loan Association erpioyee drives 1955 Buick bearing 1960

_On 12/24/60, this 1955 Buick

Century P-dour Hardtsp;

F19. License lu-154017, park. dray with cream on lower

fender's and doors and Flack Tor located parked In front

of Washington Federal Savings and Loan Assoclation, 1113

Normandy Drive, Mistl Beach.

Above license issued to

ABRAHAM HOFFMAN, 480. Northwest 122nd Street, North Miam,

F14.

On 12/15/60, Informant advised he had been unable

to learn whether MAURICE or BILL STEEN actually went to

ruerto Rice, is whether any of these money ordprs actually

cashed as yet, locally or elsewhere.

Due to tanner in which Informant obtained above info,

source fren which obtained and very liaited number of persons

having knowledge of this alleged operation, Investigative

action withheld so as to protect Informant's identity and

statias.

Any investigation at Washington Federal Savings &

89-57043

• • 1

-2 -

DocId: 32307996

Page 3

isse

---

