# docid-32315030

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10338-10140

RECORD SERIES :

WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 08/29/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MULTI SUBJECT: LARRY MEYERS, IRVING DAVIDSON

(ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315030

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (IC USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D.C.

AUgust 29,1902

Wednesday

8/29/62 (DON) SUMMARY (WE -984-5*] (5]

9: 05AM PREDESVINDA SANTANA to UNIDENT FEMALE at National Airlines

space on a later flight

GEORGE\ CHRISTOPHER to ANDRES

FREITES| requested) (S]

(says he got word last night from GALVADOR ORTIZ to the (5]

100,000 LS.

ons according to ofler elust

urther cabled that the Di

is in the position of being able toCS.

assign 20% of the product of such sales to buy US agricultural

is not necessary. IRiTlEs says he apparently does not understands.

that the money has to be left here. (FREITES says he ORTIZ)also CS.

• CHRISTOPHER will(S]

2: 22AM

UNIDENT FEMALE from General Electric, Boston to ANDRES FREITES](5]

UNIDENT wants to verify employment of (CESAR SAIZ LN splas/Consul

(General at Boston at salary of $1200 per month FREITES verifies (5]

above employment but is not aware of salary.

(English) RAB/rab

ascertained that Consul Generare

and is named JOSE RAFAEL SAIZ

(sp) <5]

9:55 AM FREDESVINDA SANTANA to UNIDENT

at American Airlines (5]

(estarenal a kes reserration.

fly to NYC on 9/3/62 at 6:30PM.

For MRS and MR ANDRES PEITBE+O(S)

(English) RAB/rab

AIL INVORMATION CANIATANTE

(45-3731 Sebut -2140)

RECUTTA I URCLASSOSIED PXCEP

SEARCHED

MAARS SHORN OCHERTISE.

SERALD LISTE CR

5698

CASED BY 5668 SiDne

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

(JER

AUG 3 0 1962

Coon 7325J<5]

FBI - WASH. F. O.,

SECRET

WiL

1 0338-001408

DocId: 32315030

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Keleased under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D.C.

August

29,1962

Wednesday

8/29/62 (DOM SUMMARY (WF-984-S*]] (Continued) [SJ

11:25AM

12-TC LS

GEORGE CHRISTOPHER tO ANDRES FREITES] (SJ

CHRISTOPHER

says he just talked with @RII? and he says the amount(s,

is $5,000,000/tc

CHRISTOPHER says they are disturbed down there by placing this

overnment fully realizes the balance of trade proble

I/they of the DR. FREITES will do. LS.

(English)

RAB rab

(ANDRES FREITES]tO LARRY MEYERS at USDA [SJ

DRyplans to spend

problem depositing this anount in a bank now and immobilizing this large

amount MYERS saysthat the decision is based on three things;

amount of sugar available,

shipping dates

to be spent on agricultural products of the us on die is

but does not want

to deposit all this money and immobilize it.

MEYERS points out that a percentage of this amount may be deposit-

ed. MEYERS points out that the countries which offer the best

amounts, times and

percentages will get the allotment.

(English) RAB/ran

11:40AM

(ANDRES FREITES tO GEORGE CHRISTOPHER ES]

12-0G LS FREITES details his talk with MEYES and is surprised that MEYERSLS

new already that the Drwas going to offer 10% CHRISTOPHER iS CS

_11:54AM

Slike a specific cable from ORTIZwith the specific terms.

so long before

matter last week.

PHIL MAGUIRE to ANDRES FREITES (5]

They agree to get together tomorrow. FREITES mentions that he is (S]

tied up with the bid

7327) {5]

DocId: 32315030 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44-USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEGRET

Washington, D.C.

August

29,1962

Wednesday

8/29/62 (DOM) SUMMARY, (Continued) (WF-984-5*J (S]

11:54 AM

Continued

talked with LARRY MYERS the day before yesterday and MYERS said he

just had a call from RAMON IMBERT and that they talked about the EST

matter. MAGUIRE says that USDA thinks they are following the wish-

es of congress on the matter of reallocation of short fall on the

basis of purchases of surplus agricultural prodicts MAGUIRE says

thinks that UsdA will adher to this policy.

hey then agree to

talk later this afternoon. lEnglish RAB/rab

GEORGE CHRISTOPHER and ANDRES FREITES to (SALVADOR ORTIZ] in(DRKS]

amounts by the month, totalling about 100, 000 tons.

FREITES then talks and says be talked to LARRY MYERS and (FREITES CS

explains the UsdA policy to ORTIZ specifically that money to bels

ORTIZ(S]

says he has been trying to locate DONAlD RElabott thiS. CRETeSCS

propose dRIIZ swill check and

must be in by

5:30PM. spanish,

2:31PM

GEORGE CHRISTOPHER to MR. SWARTZ (ph) USDA, Sugar Division.

124-537(53

11-OG

CHRISTOPHER introduces himself as the bouth Puerto met and wished to

explains that there is no reason for

seE epide allocations a lone a the country, the A 5 makina sCs)

specific proposal. SWARTZ says if the governments proposal is

accepted therewcould still be additional negotiation to substantiate

the proposal. SWARTZ suggests that the companies therefor submit

companies proposals, a least by tomorrow morning.

CHRISTOPHER then says he is putting another hat on his head and asks

if SWARTZ received the EMIROP(PH) which he sent over as ART CAKANINI

(ph) asked him( CHRISTOPHER) to bring it over. SWARTZ says he receiv-

ed both

, the pne he sent and the ones by your representatives.

This may refer to another.

sugar interest on the part of Surrgy).

(English

RAB/rab

Don 1328JC53 SECRS-1910

DocId: 32315030

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Wednesday

8/29/62 ((WF-984-S*) (Continued) C5

although the deadline for the bid is at 5:30PM (ORTIZ has notEs™

yet called back. They discuss submitting the bid without the

offer to deposit any amount in a bank here to cover argricult.

1721 0117cnases

in case they do not receive word from the DR.](S~

CHRISTOPHER will be over. (English, RAB/rak

to say that they are willing to deposit 20%, equivalent to

stanists.

fo

DECKEI

SECRET

COM-7327 53 0 338-13110

DocId: 32315030

Page 5

---

