# docid-32295238

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10014

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 45-10801-4

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CRANE. MICHAEL E.

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/16/1968

PAGES: 59

SUBJECT: GRANWOOD, EXPLOSION, PRELIM EXAMINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/06/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

COMMENTS:

REFERRED TO USCG

DocId: 32295238

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ED =302 (Rev. 4-15-64)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date 6/12/68

Lieutenant Commander

WILLIAMS, IS

Acting Commander of the U. S. Coast Guard Base on McArthur

Causeway, Miami Beach, Florida and as such has the addi-

tional title of Acting Captain of the port.

Commander WILLIAMS advised that in connection

with his current capacity as acting captain of the port

he is charged with discharging the U, S. Coast Guards,

a responsibility concerning the security of all port

facilities in the Miami area including the facilities at

Dodge

Island.

Commander WILLIAMS advised that as a result

of the fact that three foreign ships have experienced explo

sions after having been in the port facilities at Dodge

Island,

Miami, Florida, he has instituted a complete

tightening of

all Coast Guard security in and about the

Dodge Island facilities.

Conmander WILLIAMS advised that he has alerted

all crews to completely investigate information concerning

any possible suspicious individuals or boats in or about

the freighters that are utilizing the port facilities and

he stated that in the event a Cost Guard vessel is desired

at the facilities or elsewhere, at any time in connection

with any investigation by this

office a telephone call

should be placed to telephone number 538-4731 and the

caller should ask to speak with the officer of the day.

He stated this telephone is manned on a 24 hour basis.

Commander WILLIAMS advised that he has been in

contact with the Intelligence Section of the U. S. Coast

the the haa been

Guard as well as other elements of the Coast Guard but

that as a result of these contacts no information has

come to his attention which would suggest any suspects

in connection with the explosions

that occurred on the

"Asaka Maru"

""Mikagesan Maru" and the "Granwood".

On

6/3/68

_at®

Miami, Florida

SAS JOHN R. ACKERLY and

MICHAEL E. CRANE MEC/rg1

-File #

Miami 45-1158

6/7/68

-by

_Date dictated

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

10

45-10801-4

DocId: 32295238

Page 2

---

## Page 3

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"".".

MM 45-1156

MEC: ggE

By communication dated May 21, 1968, the Mobile Office

advised that It. Commander D. F. SMITH,

U. S. Coast Guard, Mobile,

Alabama, advised that the "Granwood" had arrived at Mobile,

Alabama, and

was placed in drydock on May 20, 1968. At that

time an

examination of the vessel indicated that an explosion

had occurred outside the ship through a grate through which

water was being pumped to cool the engines.

The force of the

explosion raised the deck of the engine room approximately four

inches.

The U. S. Coast Guard report prepared at Mobile, Ala-

bama, indicates

that an examination of the "Granwood" shows that

the hole in the hull

of this vessel occurred between frames 31

and 32 from alt, just under the water tank top, and the plates

of the hull were

curled back into the ship by an explosive force.

By communication dated June 19, 1968, the Mobile Office

advised that the British freighter "Granwood" had departed from

Mobile, Alabama, under tow for repairs which were to be undertaken

at a British shipyard.

14

45-10801-4

----

DocId: 32295238

Page

---

