# docid-32175314

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Is Masalan System

Identification Form

Walt:

J/LJILU1

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10182-10047

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SA

89-67-633

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

65

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-3930

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/28/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32175314

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-808 (DeT. J1-(0)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UPONTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ASSASSINATION: OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

DATE

INVESTIQATIVE

12/10/64

9/24/64 - 12/7/64

RIPORT MADE DY

ROPERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED MY

Str

MISCELL - ORNATION

CONCER ING

REFERENCES:

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLINO, dated 10/21/64,

at Dallas, Texas.

-P-

LEADS:

All leads in this case have been set forth by teletype

or airtel and are not being restated herein.

By Bureau airtel to all SACS and all Legats dated 10/6/64,

all offices were instructed to forward inserts and/or FD-302s te

Dallas In the future in order that Dallas could subalt the reports

1n captioned case.

ECIAL AGEI

CHARt

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

10 - Bureau (62-109060)

- New Orleans

- 8aл

Antonio:

(89-69)

89-67

Dallas (89-43)

(Into

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES DELON

89.

67

633

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

DEC1 11964

DISSEMINATION RECORD 0I

REPORT

AGINCY....

ADQUENT RECO.

DATE TWO..

How mir.

Classified by

NOTATIONExempt frim. GNS. Chiegory

Date or More

indefinite.

Date of C stain Gagan

Date Classification Affixed aT CAMUE

DocId: 32175314

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 89=43

SA 89-67

On October 16, 1964, HERBERTO SPIDOLA, Secretary

to the Mexican Consul,

San Antonio, Texas, advised the

San Antonio office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation

that an unknown French male, listing his home as Morocco,

ad been tryine lor some time do make an appointmen

with thể

o speak with the consul (Sol

On the morning of October 16, 1964, this individual

came to the Consulate

and spoke with the librarian, who made

an appointment for this man to speak with the Consul at

11:00 am on that date

This man, according to the librarian,

said he had some information concerning LEE HARVEY OSWALD that

he wanted to pass on to the Mexican Consul General. Su)

According to the librarian, this man was dressed

in a uniform, but she did not know

what sort of uniform it

was.

The man had left his name written on a small note pad

but his writing was iblegible, and no one had been able to

determine his identity are

The following

investigation was conducted by Special

Agent JOHN V. KNUDSON:

«(e)

AT SAN ANTONIO I TEXAS:

On October 17, 1964, JOSE INES CANO, Consul General,

Mexican Consulate, 127

Navarro Street, advised that MOHAMED

LAKHMIRI was presently in his office and stated he wanted

political asylum in Mexico because he feared to state

of his political views here in the

• United States (u)

MI. CANO advised that he felt

LAK MIRI was mentally

ill and needed psychiatric attention.

Mr. CANO further advised that on two previous occasions

he had received letters from LAKHMIRI written in the French.

43

5A89-67-633

DocId: 32175314 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2

DL. 89-43.

SA 89-67

language.

In the first letter, LAKHMIRI mentioned the name

of OSWALD in a very

second letter

LAKHMIRI again mentioned that he was destined to play a role

like the OSWALD role.

Mr. CANO further advised that both

letters

were rambling and made very little sense.

While

LAKHMIRI was at the Mexican Consulate, CANO suggested to

him that he talk to a representative of the United States

.. Governmento

According to Mr. CANO, LAKHMIRI refused to

talk to any represesentative of the United States Government

because he feels that everyone in the United States and

everyone at backland Air Force Base it against him. 8(l)

On October 17, 19640

ME, BILLY H. CUNNINGHAM,

Special Agent, Office of Special Investigations, Lackland

Air Force Base, advised that records at Lackland Air Force

Base reflect that MOHAMED LAKHMIRI is an aviation cadet with the

Moroccan Air Force, Number 4070 MOR, on Special Orders 152

at Lackland Air Force Base, dated August 31, 1964, to train for

fifteen weeks in language training and fifty-five

flight training

Mr. CUNNINGHAM furnished the following

description which was obtained from the records at Lackland

Air Force Base:

Date of birth:

Place of birth:

Height:

Weight:

Hair:

Eyes:

1939, no day or month shown

Not indicated

5 fto 8 in.

154 pounds

Brown

Browno

Medical records at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas®

according to Mr.

CUNNINGHAM, reflected on September

29, 1964,

LAKHMIRI went to Wilford Hall Hospital, complaining of

sleeping habits, pain in his throat,

and difficulty in

breathing:

A note on these records

indicates the patient

himself said he would like to stay in the hospital a few days

"because I don't sleep very well."

5489-67-133

DocId: 32175314 Page 4

---

