# docid-32286177

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10453

RECORD SERIES :

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1256

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

10: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/26/1963

5

THP, JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TESUR,

MISUR, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V0:1

DocId: 32286177 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of'1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11=14-2017

-FD-143 (12-28-601

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

CONFIDEAIAO

(Bufile.

SECRET

JUNE

DATE: 4/26/63

FROM

I SUBJECT:

ANT IRFORMATTON CORAINED

CHICAGO (92-350 Sub D)

HEREIN IS UNCLASS " ED EXCEPA

WHERE-SHOWN OTHERWISE,

ICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

Remy FD-143 dated 3/1/63.

RE:

Title

TOP. HOODLUM 'PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

Classified

a/23/98 udecharacter of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Declassif an ORCOF

Field Office

CHI CAGO

Symbol Number

CG 6343-C*

CLÁSSELO BY 500S SUDIESR Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone:

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.7/L

CONF. INFT.

1.

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Celano's Tailor Shop,

meeting place for Chicago top hoodlums

2.

Address where installation made., Also give exact room number or area

620 North

Michigan: Avenue, second f1001

Chicago,

Illinois, private office of JIMMY CELANO, Owner

3. Location of monitoring plant:

(Central Tesur Plant,

Chicago Office

36 South (lanStreet S

hicag0.

4

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

5.

Authorized

7/14/59

Installed 7/29/59

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

Regular Democratic Organization, First Ward,

100 North La Salle, 10/62

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

I Not applicabLe

a. 'Is a trunk line utilized?

REE 52

62-99-125

3/10

765 16.

8, APR 8031963

c.

Is the surveillancé on a public coin operated teléphone?

Bureau (RM)

Chicago,

WER: cmb

Poge

RET

DocId: 32286177

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of_1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONSIDEI

do Is surveillance on a private, line of a party lines SEGRET

e. If a party line, how many parties? ,

7.

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One "mouse" microphone unit installed

behind radiator, which

is enclosed in a permanent wood panel housing in CELANO'S

8.

pf the Installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9.

Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved:

(Add insert pages)

10.

See attached.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

'ii. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:,

None for same coverage.

12. Has

security factor' changed since installation?

NO

13.

Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency ):

NO

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

Bontal costa in plant pranies) raid elant located In Chicago ousteel

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

25

GONADIX

SECREL

DocId: 32286177 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-11-2017

K, L

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

SECRET

15.

Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees (SEs)

$44,045 per annum

• 1 Special Agent (SA)

$12,975 per annum (CP only)

3 Special Agents

$29,985 per annum (Polish only))

b.

Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

(5)

5 SEs 200 hours or 100% of total work week

1 SA

30 hours or 75% of total work week (CP only)

3 SAs 120 hours or 75% of total work week (Polish only)

c.

If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6343-C* 23 hours per week or 11% of total work week

of SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list.

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6343-C*

$4,319.15-

17. Remarks (By SAC):

It is recommended that this surveillance be maintained for an

additional period of ninety days and such will be done UACB.

Obviously the quality and quantity of information received from

this source has decreased from its peak three years ago, however,

as is set out in number 9 it can be seen that information of

interest to the investigations

of this office continues to be

obtained through this source.

In addition, it is pointed out that

there is no expense involved

in monitoring

this source for the

reason that the same employees who monitor other surveillances

on the same subject easily and with a minimum of effort monitor

this source. It is further pointed out that there does not appear

to be any risk involving the security of this source, except that

risk which would hecessarily be attained in any operation

involving an entry to retrieve the microphone.

•=3-

SECRET

DocId: 32286177 Page 4

---

