# docid-32294801

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10214-10077

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 124-198-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MAXSON, PETER F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

06/15/1948

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

EHH, ASSOC, BKG INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45816 DocId: 32294801 Page 1'

---

## Page 2

C

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FOIS ASE ORIGINATED AT PULAU

REPORT MADE AT

ALBANI, NO YORK

TITLE

FILE NO.

124-10

MD

DATE WHEN MADE

6/15/48

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

6/1-3,15/48

REPORT MADE BY

PETER F. LAYSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

E. HOARD HUNT, JR.

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

HUNT family has favorable reputation in Albany. Appli-

cant's father is Counsel and Secretary of Insurance Fed-

eration of leir York State and Insurance Conpany lobby:

Applicant iimself has spent little time in Albany since

1941, but neignbors describe hin as a fine, clear-living

individual and reporiedly a successful author. No deroga-

tory incornation developed. Credit record satisfactory.

lic criminal record, Albany Police Department.

-::UC-

RU.2.802:

DDRA7IS :

Surosu louter to Albany cated 5, 26/48

12 ALPARS, LET ZOLE:

Die Albary City Diroctory Listo Applicant's father as Secretary

and Counsel of the Insurance Federation of New Yor:: State, 11

North Pearl Streeto

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

Confidential Iniorant I-l, of knon reliability, advised that

this Federation is an Association of Casualty Agents in the State,

and that ire WIL, Sio, is a paid lew York State Lobbyist and

representative of this association, and that he also works in a

similar capacity for the life insurance Presidents! association

on a national basis.

This Informant advised that he had known lic. HUNT

25 years;

that he is a highly respectable and outstanding man who has never

given any evidence of disloyalty or UnAmerican sentiment

ITS • CLADICE Lo TRAVER, neighbor of the HUMS at 08 Oilett

A. Comelius, "

2. LyCHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE

124-

198-10

CORDED: 40

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau (A 3D)

Aloany

ween polit

EX -33

2

i .:

TREATING CrFICE

7--2034

14244

NW 45816. DocId: 32294801 Page 2

---

## Page 3

A1. 124-10

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANI

• Confidential Infornant I-I is

Agent, Aetna Life Insurance Company, 112 State Street, who requested

that his identity be kept confidential.

OTHER 4

NW 45816 DocId: 32294801 Page 3'

---

## Page 4

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

ALBANY, NENT YORK

TITLE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

BUREAU

DATE WHEN MADE

6/15/48

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

6/1-3,15/48

FILE NO.

124-10

REPORT MADE BY

PETER F. MAXSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

E. HOWARD HUNT, JR.

EUROPEAN RECOVERY PROGRAM

KND

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

REFERENCE:

DETAILS:

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

HUNT family has favorable reputation In Albany. Applia

cant's father is Counsel and Secretary of Insurance Fed

eration of New York State and Insurance Company Lobby.

Applicant himself has spent I1ttle time In Albany since

1941, but neighbors describe him as a fine, olean-living

individual and reportedly a successful author. No deroga-

tory information developedo Credit record satisfactory.

No criminal record, Albany Police Department.

-RUC-

Bureau letter to Albany dated 5/26/48

AT ALBANY, NEW YORKS

The Albany City Directory Lists Applicant's father as Secretary

and Counsel of the Insurance Federation of New Lork State, 1l

North Pearl Street.

Confidential Informant I-l, of knom reliability, advised that

this Federation is an Association al Casualty Agents In the State,

and that Ic. HUNT, SR., is & paid New York State Lobbyist and

representative of this association, and that he also works in

similar capacity for the life insurance Presidents associates

This Informant advised that he had know le. HINT for 25 yeares

that he is a highly respectable and outstending man who has never

Even any evidence of disloyalty or Undericon sentiments.

MrS • CLARENCE A TRAVER, neighbor of the HIS at 23 mllett

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES:

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3. Bureau (ANSD)

Albany

E. E NOTARNHIN! IRISTINE OFFICE

7—2034

OIM

NW 45816 DocId: 32294801 Page 4

---

## Page 5

A1. 724-10

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT

Confidential Informant T-1 is

Agent, Aetna Life

Insurance Company, 112 State Street, who requested

that his identity be kept confidential.

OTHER 4

NW 45816 DocId: 32294801 Page 5'

---

