# docid-32338283

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-90141-10079

HQ

105-92413-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/06/1961

2

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT .

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

19.1

DocId: 32338283

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Releaseir

DATE -

11-14-2017

kennery Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 4d uSC

2107 Hotel.

Mr. Tolson.

Mr.

Mohr..

Mr. PRisona

-Mr. Belmont V

Mr. Callahan:

Mr. Deloach.

Mr. Malone..-

Mr. McGuire..

Mr. Rosen:

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr: W.C.Sullivan

AIRTEL

SECRED

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-3244)

FROM:

SAC, NFO (97-992)

JULY 26TH MOVEMENT

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

IS - CUBA

1/6/61

66-14-9/4 (FFK)

sp8 mAc/use

Classified by SP6BOA/GCL

Declassify on: OADE 05 /ISR

Enclosed are nine copies for the Bureau

one copy each for the below listed offices of

a letterhead

97

Hesp

342

SUD

memorandum, dated and captioned as above, containing infor-

mation from WE 1133-s*: 1(5)

JFK

It was noted by Special Agents receiving data

from the above informant that TAPANES did not state that

he planned to organize or to participate in the organi-

zation of an espionage ring in the United States for

ALL ENFORMATIEN ON THIS

Cuba, however, the manner in which he spoke clearly

PARE IS CLASHED

indicated that this was the purpose of the meeting

BY

CLASSINED

DECLASS.FY.ON

mentioned in the enclosure. It was further emphasized Sid

Mist

that the official contact in the United States for this

operation would be the Cuban Alternate Representative

to the Organization of American States, Ambassador

QUINTIN PINO MACHADO.

Recipient offices should be alert and should

contact sources for information relative to individuals

who plan

to attend this meeting and should thereafter

notify the Bureau and Philadelphia.

105-924135

Philadelphia should arrange for informant

coverage, if possible, of this meeting and i deemed

feasible, should arrange for a physical and photograßRec

surveillance of the meeting.

- Bureau (Encle. 9) ENCLOSURE 9

1 - Chicago (Encl.. 1) (RM)

• - Miami (Encl. 1) (RM)

1

1

- Newark (Encl. 1) (RM)

- New York (Encl. 1) (RM)

2 - NFO

(1 - 105-23168)

HJM: blb

N(10)

Copy tp: CIA / State/RAB

ENCLOSU

ONI/OSI/G2

AIRTEL

by routing shp for into.

Ye stras-

(MACHADO)

62J4N61 2v1k61

Date 1-4-41

L WY ERH: De.

SECRED

6th No 36

RIGINAL FILED

JAN 1'0 1961

TRAI. INT SEC.

DocId: 32338283

Page 2

---

