# docid-32334507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10213

RECORD SERIES : MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-1

Released under the

John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note! .

Case#: NW 53074 Date:

65-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: AL

TITLE:

DATE: 11/06/1961

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMEN

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

KH 53074 DocId:32334507

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

¡ivruniviATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 12/19/83 BY SPSBT.

211,396

SAC, Albany

Lorector, 8B1 662-1072625

"MINUTENEN 627752

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

November 6 , 1961

roses: 1454-1932

REUGIC.TICA

MINuTE MEN AMERICA

48-44517

"Minutemen" was organized in June, 1960, with

headquarters at 613 East Alton

or displued By this

exposure of the spread of communist influence within

the United States and

the formation of an underground

organization to combat the troops of foreign powers which

night occupy this country. According to a source

organization appears to be legitimate and has 3,000 member.

in 35 cities in the United States.

Los Angeles Office advised that a member of

"Minutemen" made the statement that the organization is

ready to take up active revolution against the United States

Government "should this country be sold down the river

through the United Nations."

(It appears that this member

may not be referring to an active revolution against the

present Government of the United States but is referring

to the communist form of government which would be ruling

the United States "if the United Nations sells us down

the river."). It is incumbent on the Bureau to be aware

of the plans, aims and purposes of "Minutemen" to determine

whether it becomes necessary to actively investigate it.

after receipt of this letter,

to be obtained from public source data and all logical

informants and sources of information; however, no active

investigation should be conducted.

Identity and location of

105-4921-1

all units of

"Minutemen"

data concerning each.

2 - All Continental Offices-

SEARCHES R

SERIALIZED .....

d. FILEON

1961

1/0/6,P

Kc 0/0

nite

DIL

53074

DocId: 32334507 Page 2

---

