# docid-32198351

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10270-10192

RECORD SERIES:

LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-75-214

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

HARRISON. G. D.

DATE: 11/28/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSP, UNK, EVID, RIFLE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45188 DocId: 32198351 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Complaint Form

*D-71 (10-20-55)

Note: Hand print names legibly; handwriting satisfactory for remainder.

Subject's name and aliases

Unsub; Assination of

President kennedy 11/22/63

- Informant)

Address of subject

Complainant

Complainant's address and

5946 DeraISt. N.H.

Popular 5-7058

Race

Se›

Height

Hair

Build

Male

Age

Weight

Eyes

Complexion

Female

Scars, marks or other data

Character of case

89-75

Complaint received

[Personal [XX] Telephonic

Date 11/28/63 ime 7:15 P.M.

Birth date and Birthplace

OTHER 4

Subject's

Description

Facts of complaint Co stated he is employed in Quality. Assurance Dept. of

Hydraulic Research Co., 3540 Naomi St., Burbank, which is under Air

Force Jurisdiction.

About le to 2 weeks ago one of the engineers in the same

building with complainant was noticed to have a rifle at work which,

according to

complainant, was similar to the rifle used by LEE OSWALD

to kill President Kennedy.

Complainant states that this engineer

was working on the rear sight and the bolt lever of the rifle during

his lunch hour. C. has seen this engineer previously with another

rifle and has heard several of the employees discussing rifles.

talk about target shooting.

same could probably be ascertained from a Mr. Pace, who is head of

the

Quality Assurance Dept.

C. described the Engineer as a male,

caue., about 27-30 yrs.,

dark complex., dark hair, 5'10 or 11",

and of foreigh extraction.

c' felt that he should furnish this info. to FBI if same

was of interest.

Action Recommended

none

G. D.

HARRISON

(Agent)

89-15-214

SEARCHED......

ERIALIZED...(.O FILED...

NEXES. CE

NOV & D 1963

FBI - LOS ANGELES

NW 45188 DocId: 32198351 Page 2

---

