# docid-32294134

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10410

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-1ST NR 525

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/01/1963

2

LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, SUSP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32294134 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-

FBI

Date: 11/1/63

Transmit the following in .

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

SAR CLEVELAND (157-127)

CAVBOMB

aka., AR - CONSPIRACY"

On page 28 of referenced report under the caption

of "Pittsburgh", NY I-2 furnished information regarding CHARLES

CAVALLARO (from

former

Agrigento, Sicily) and one NICOLO GENTILE,

• "Consiglieri" of the Pittsburgh "Borgata"

to New York, possibly in 1932, and attended a meeting with

CAPIZZI, AMATO, GENOVESE, ANASTASIA, BIONDO, MANGANO and others.

At this time, ANASTASIA had GENTILE and CAVALIARO transferred to

MANGANO's "Borgata" with the approval of MANGANO and BIONDO.

From a review of records of INS, victim CHARLES CAVALLARO

was born 2/2/02 at Agrigento, Italy. Further, according to the

Bureau

41 - 92-6054)

2: - New York (Info)

1 - 157-789

1 - 92-2300

2 - Pittsburgh (Info)

I: • 157-154'

(1 - 92-599)

192-6054

NOT RECORDED

78 NOV 6 1963

4 - Cleveland

CARBON COPY

(1 - 92-748)

(1 ÷ 92-021)

RLJ/Ing

(12)

Approved:

60 NOV 13 196 pecial Agent in Charge

Sent

M Per

iNW 45839 DocId: 32294134 Page 2

15727 49

---

## Page 3

CV 157-127

FBI Identification Division, CAVALLARO was arrested on

6/28/34, Dy ATU, NYC, aS CHARLES DI FRANCESCO; on 8/12/36,

by NYC PD as JOSEPH TROPICANO on a charge of 1897 petit larceny

(blackjack); and at ATU, Buffalo, 8/29/36, on inquiry.

ABRAM D. ARMSTEAD, graduate, Howard University

Medical School, Washington,

whose license to practice

medicine was suspended as a

previously the Naples brothers brought him on

Desult of abortion, advised that

-he average

two abortion patients per weel and, at the present time, he

•is averaging about two abortions a month.

ARMSTEAD stated that of late he has been almost

wholly oscupied with the job of handicapping and betting

horses

and prior to the

bombing-murder of VINCENT J. DE NIRO

(7/17/61), he placed his bets through DE NIRO and always was

paid when

he won, After the death of DE NIRO, CAVALLARO moved

into DE NIRO's operation, and he won about $2,000 or $3,000

on horse bets and could not collect.

Some time after this

ne was held up by one JOE (LNU), a pickup man for CAVALLARO,

who, With another individual, took about $200 or $300 from him.

ARMSTEAD stated he definitely knew that CAVALLARO

moved into DE NIRO's operation and, for this reason, believed

that CAVALLARO was at least partially responsible for the death

of DE NIRO.

PCI

advised that about two or three weeks

before DOMINICK MOIO was

found, murdered at Canton, Ohio (9/3/63),

she saw and talked with MOIO at the Center Sandwich Shop,

Youngstown, Ohio, operated by the NAPLES brothers, where

he

was talking with

• JOSEPH and JIMMIE NAPLES. She recognized

MOIO from his pictures being in the newspapers.

While she

did not know his name before, she recalled that in 1961 anc

1902 she saw MOIO in the company of BILLY NAPLES (bombing-murder

victim, 7/1/62). PCI thought it odd that MOIO was with the

NAPLES brothers, inasmuch as there has been much talk that

MOIO was responsible for the death of BILLY NAPLES.

PCI heard

at the time of MOIO's death that JOSEPH NAPLES had gone out of

town to meet MOIO and now believes that the NAPLES brothers

were pretending to be friendly with MOIO by not blaming him

for the death of BILLY NAPLES, so they could maneuver him into

a position to kill him.

OTHER 4

- 2

-

NW 45839 DocId: 32294134 Page 3

---

