# docid-32297479

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10255

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-319

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/05/1964

9

GM, SMO, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, BUSS, RACK,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297479

23

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-236

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report has been delayed due to the pre-

occupation of the preparing Special Agent with other

pressing matters in connection with the Criminal Intelligence

Program.

From March 6, 1964, to July 22, 1964, PG 713-C*

was in a position to furnish

information

Of SAMUEL MANNARINO, 1263 3rd Avenue, New Kensington,

8, 8 ken the on

from the office

pertinent incormation regarding thia aublect.

but during this period, the informant furnished

no

The

informant was discontinued on the latter date due to the

eminent razing of the MANNARINO office headquarters.

During the period of this report, close liaison

has been maintained with Intelligence Division, IRS, Pittsburgh,

Pa., which is currently conducting an

investigation

regarding this subject.

INFORMANTS

T symbols utilized in this report will be the

same, where applicable, 128/d0se used in reports back to,

and including, that of

PG T-38 1S PCI JAMES W. BURGART, who furnished

information to SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III.

PG T-39 is PG 657-CTE.

PG T-54 1s PG 620-C.

PG T-56 is PG 707-C.

PG T-58 is PG 722-PC.

PG T-59 is PG 694-PC.

-B*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32297479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

LiTED STATES DEPARTMENT JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

August 5, 1964

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special

Agent Thomas G. Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, dated August 5,

1964.

There follows a brief characterization of

informants used in referenced report:

PG I-38 is an individual who has been connected

with gambling activities in the New Kensington, Pa., area

for almost 15 years.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., gambler and club

operator:

PG T-56 is a businessman whose activities bring

him into occasional contact with members of the racketeering

element in New Kensington, Pa.

PG T-58 is an individual who has been a trusted

member of the East Liberty-Homewood section, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

numbers operation for many years.

PG T-59 is an individual who has been engaged

in almost every type of criminal activity for over 25 years.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI

and is loaned to vour agency; it and its contents

are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32297479 Page 3

---

