# docid-32291441

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10217

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

62-9-12-428

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/27/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, INVEST, JHD, RDM, AME

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

- RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45760

29

DocId: 32291441

Page 1

Date:

4/28/201

Released under the dohn

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NU 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

---

## Page 2

FD-16 (Roy-12-13-56%

FBI

Date:

5/27/63

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

N SAC, DALLAS. (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL- INTELLIGENCE PROGRAN

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 5/20/63.

RE: JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aka.

(DL 92-292)

On 5/21/63, information was received from DL-34-C

(DL 137-22) that DOLAN has a "large score" set up for him in

the New Orleans area by "CARLOS" (LNU) (possibly CARLOS MARCELLO)

to take place probably during week leginning 5/26/63.

According

to informant, DOLAN would be

BUGENE RUBEN

MC CROSKEY, both Joined by CARL ANCELO DE LUNA and

well known Kansas City hoodlums.

DOLAN at the time was attempting to obtain an automobile in

Dallas through Dallas hoodlum NICK CASCIO (DL 92-35) •

Descrip-

tions and cars available to MC CROSKEY and DE LUNA had

previously been furnished to the New Orleans Office by Dallas

3 - Bureau

• Dallas

1 - Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

- Dallas

Dallas

- Dallas

- Dallas

- Dallas

- Dallas

1

- Dallas

(94-55A-SUB) '

(92-292)

(165-104)

(166-102)

(137-1110)

(137-1375)

46%95)

(166-81)

(162-97)

(162-1)

(165-73)

(162-227)

(166-84)

WHA

(137-22)

(92- 357)

1316

REC- 87

62-2:1242

g MAY 28 1963

RMB: rib

(18)

150

Approved:

Sent -

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

45760 DocId:32291441 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TASK FORCE.

•Di 94- 55A-SUB

and the above information was made known to New Orleans by

separate Dallas communication.

Above information was orally furnished to Lt. JACK

REVILL, Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, and Sheriff BILL DECKER,

Dallas

County So, on 5/23/63.

RE: CHARLES CLARENCE HILL; et al

IGA; ITWI

(DL 165-104)

On 5/21/63, HILl was arrested by officers of the Dallas

PD Vice Squad In a continuation of the PD crackdown on bookmakers

and gamblers in the Dallas area.

At the time HILL had $1467 in

his pocket and he claimed he had just returned from a poker game

near & lake in Rockwall County, Texas, where he had won $1,000.

A lien was placed against this money by IRS, Dallas.

RE:

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, aka.

JFK Act 6 (4)

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166 102)

FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED 5/20/63 ON A

CONFIDENTIAL BASIS FROM LT.

JACK REVILL,

INTELLIGENCE SECTION,

DALLAS PD, WHICH INFORMATION HAD BEEN ORIGINALLY RECTIVED BY HIM

FROM A HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL AND RELIABLE SOURCE. THIS INFORMATION

IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE THE BUREAU AND MUST BE HANDLED

MOST DISCREETLY IN ORDER TO PROTECT LT. REVILL'S SOURCE.

Lt. REVILL's source advised that recently MATTHEWS

had had a discussion withi

(DL 137-1110) and according to the source. Dallas gambler

(DL 137-1375) owes

$1500 in

gambling. debts and had not made any effort to make any payment

on this debt.

According tol

claimed he had

recently had his car stolen.

MATTHEWS expressed a great hatred

MATTHEWS.

that he (MATTHEWS)

was going to give

a Known close associate of

as a birthday present, meaning he would either

work over!

or kill him.

19/98 des

iN

RE: HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka.

IGA

(DI 162-95)

On 5/20/63. IRS Agent JAMES GANN advised that

JEK Law 11

a)

= 2

629-12-428

HN 45760 DocId:32291441

Page 3

---

## Page 4

• DI 94-55A-SUB

JFK Law 11(a)

RE: FRED D. MERRILL

ITAR - GAMBLING

(DL 166-81)

On 5/21/63, while conducting a review of credit

bureau records concerning MERRILL, a newspaper clipping dated

7/10/46 was observed which carries a story about MERRILL winning

$188,500 in a dice game at the Frontier Club, Reno, Nevada,

which game lasted 12z hours. MERRILL's winnings were paid by

one of the operators of the

club,

F. L. "DUB" MC CLANAHAN,

Dallas resident and oil man. MERRILL, according to the clipping,

netted $83,000 after taxes.

RE: MILTON DEE MALLARD, aka.; et al

AR; IGA

(DL 162-97)

On 5/24/63, DL 141-C advised that DICK IVY, an old-

time bookmaker who formerly operated at ft. Worth, Texas, told

him last week that he (IVY) had been to Bryan, Texas, recently

to see MALLARD, who is a close friend of IVY, and that MALLARD's

club (believed

to be known as the Cross Swords Club) was now.

closed.

IVY told informant that Federal officers had learned

that MALLARD was connected with this club and that there was

gambling there.

MALLARD was warned that if this continued, his

probation (believed by informant to be Federal probation imposed

4.:

approximately a year or so ago) would be revoked.

Informant stated it was his belief that IVY had con-

tacted MALLARD in an effort to get some money from him in order

that IVY could settle his present difficulties with IRS.

Informant advised that he had talked with IVY last

week at which time IVY indicated he was trying to settle his

current difficulties with IRS for $1,600 and if he was able to

do so, he was then going to obtain a current Wagering Tax Stamp

and start bookmaking in September, 1963.

Above information furnished to San Antonio Office by

separate communication as San Antonio is origin in case involving

MALLARD.

- 3-

629-12-428

"HH 45760 DocId: 32291441 Page 4

---

## Page 5

+ 15

Dis 94-55A-SUB

RE: R. O. WARE

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES -

DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-1)

On 5/24/63, DL 141-C advised that approximately one

week ago R. O. WARE, a gambler from Texarkana, Texas, was in

Ennis, Texas, at which time he told informant that bookmaking

at Texarkana

was very slow. WARE cautioned informant about

taking any bets from anyone at Texarkana by telephone, stating

that such individuals might be calling from the Arkansas side

dual none

and get informant in trouble.

Informant stated WARE said he

knew of no one in Texarkana who was getting horse race results

by wire facilities.

RE:

JACK MASSEY;

K. S. MASSEY

ITWI

(DL 165-73)

On 5/24/63, DL 141-C advised that an individual using

the name JACK MASSEY is presently carrying on bookmaking activ-

ities through telephone number JE 6-5886 or ED 6-5886, Ft.

Worth, Texas. He advised that JACK MASSEY is supposedly employed

by the J. B. Williams Company and that J. B. WILLIAMS is report-

edly a big bond and stock broker from somewhere in North or

South Carolina.

Informant stated tha on 6/1/63, JACK MASSEX 1s

supposedly going to Montgomery, Alabama, to sell stocks and

bonds for the J. B. Williams Company.

Informant expressed the

opinion that there is a possibility J. B. WILLIAMS is affiliated

with the bookmaking activities of MASSEY and the business of

selling securities is being used as a front for obtaining

be in connection with his bookmaking activities.

MELVIN RALPH MARSHALL; et al

IGA

(DI 162-227)

Previous investigation by Dallas had ascertained that

numerous telephone calls were made from MARSHALL's place of

residence and bookmaking operation to Wilmington, Delaware,

telephone OL 6-2501.

It is also noted that when

MARSHALL waS

interviewed by Bureau Agents following his arrest at Dallas by

-4-

NH 45760 DocId:32291441 Page 5

---

