# docid-32311996

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10313

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-175

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/04/1966

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

V9.1

DocId: 32311996

55

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John-T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05e 2107 Hotel.

DATE:

11-14-2017

• LONAL TOr

ANY 1002 90E+*-

110M:

5010-166-03-

- GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum ANDEN

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-409763)

TE: 2/4/66

FROI

LEGAT, LONDON (100-3247) (P).

SUBJECT:

MARK LANE

SM

:C

AIL IXFORMACION CONTAINEN

IS UNCSASSIFIED

EXCEPT MIEZA SHOWN

ORKERWISE

00:

NEW., YORK

(5668540/gel-9/8/99-55K)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SCO/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (6)

(JFK) 4/22/97

By letter dated

12/66, classified Confidential,

the Danish Security Service which is T-1 in the enclosure,

furnished the information

set forth therein.

3(W)

British Security "Service,

is being requested

for information concerning LANE's. book and UACB,

when it is

publishedea copy will be obtained and

transmitted to the

Bureau®

ocTa

Et

CC TO: V

SIA

REQ. REC'D

JAN

1371

BY: BAWP A

2

- Bureau (Encs.

Liaison (sent direct) (Enc. 1)

1 Mark Lane

1

- London

(4)

1209- 903°

IT

safer

up ther

Miss BAla

Raguel lette,

al

(Budiacion) / ENCLOSURE

5.55,

canting

Shot, thAn

REG- 83,

100-409763-173

FEB 10 1966

1966

SUBV

TROI

DoeId: 32311996

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 744 USC TUT Hotep.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

February 4, 1966

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

ADE IRFORMATION CONDAINIT

MARD :9 0000066817380

EXC 472 DILATE SHOWN

001:ERX SE

MARK LANE

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GC

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(6)

(FF) 4/22/97

[on January 12, 1961, I-1 la confidential source

abroad, furnished information which appeared in the Danish

newspaper,

"Lolland-Falsters Folketidende" on January 4, 1966,

as fOllOwS:(e)

"Mark Lane has now finished reading the proofs

of his book dealing with the assassination of President

Kennedy and entitled/'Rush to Judgement'

(c)

"After having spent Christmas and New Year with

his parents-in-law,

Mr. and Mrs. Dabelsteen, NykObing

F., Mark Lane and his wife flew

to London where the: book

is to be published by Bodley Head, publishers London, /

in April 1966. Six months after its appearance?

the

book is to be

reprinted in a paper-back edition

in

twelve countries..

Professor Trevor Roper, Oxford

University, has written a preface to the book,

offered

=!!.

that in its evaluation of what happened in Dallas,

Stating

history must take into account both the Warren Report

and Mark Lane's book." (C)

Additionally, according to I-1, the article relates

that a documentary film of full length is expected to be produced

dealing with the assassination and founded on MARK LANE's book,

whose title it will carry.

The film is to be made by de ANTONIO

and will be based on pictures taken by the American Broadcasting

System and the Columbia Broadcasting System. The article also

states that in February 1966, LANE and his assistants are

going

to Dallas to talk to witnesses of the assassination.(C)

The article concludes: (C)

"This film is also to be shown in the United

States where the massive opposition to Mark Lane's views

of the Kennedy tragedy has declined considerably.

The

film may possibly be released by the company 'Allied

Artists'; if not, Mark Lane will hire cinemas in New York

and Dallas and show the film there, and it will also

distributed to film clubs all over

tho unitod states. "e)

100-409763-115

This document contains neither

ENCLOSURE

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

CONFIDENTIAL

the Flatone to your ano

distributed outside your arenco.

DocId: 32311996 Page 3

---

