# docid-32323117

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90010-10121

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-9734-757

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

BROWN

DL

DATE: 11/14/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

t. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caset: NH 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

V9.1

HH 54463

68

DocId: 32323117

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010104-01

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

:. " SAC, DALLAS (134-4A-403A)

FROM

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

DI-7S

DATE: 11/14/61

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

PEREIN IS UNCLASSITIE

SUBJECT: :

DATE 2-15-97 BY 5668 SUDKK

(JFK)

On 11/13/61, DL-7-S, in person, furnished a type-

written report to SA W. HARLAN BROWN, which report is dated

11/13/61, and has been serialized as 134-4A-403.

That report reflected that a regular CP meeting

was held at the home of AUGUSTIN ESTRADA on 11/6/61.

Those

present were AUGUSTIN ESTRADA, BILL LOWERY and JOE LANDIN.

According to the report, ESTRADA had received

letter from

JOHN STANFORD of San Antonio,

which was signed

"J.". The letter informed that MAUDERUSSELL is available as a

speaker;

that MAUDE RUSSELL has spent several

months in Red

China and is thoroughly acquainted with the

true living con-

ditions there.

Her talk would be on China.

The letter further

indicated that MISS RUSSELL charges, for expenses, $25. for a

group of 30 people and $5. extra for each additional persons:

MAUDE RUSSELL, the letter continued, was going to be in San

Antonio area

soon and it was suggested that if the Dallas group

wanted to arrange a meeting with her, that she could be reached

at this address: "MAUDERUSSELL, Palo Alto, California." If

MISS. RUSSELL was to appear in Dallas, it was suggested a place

be found for her to stay.

1 - Dallas (134-4A-403A)

1 - Dallas (100-7995 (A. Estrada)

1 = Dallas

(100-7929 (B Lowery)

1 = Dallas

8100-8001 (J. Landin)

1 - Dallas

100-8749 (J. Stanford)

1 Dallas

8100-671-1 (Funds):

1 = 100-8160 (J. Lawrence)

1 ∞ 100-9974 (D. Lawrence)

1 • 100-8242 (N. Ross)

1 100-8171 (E. Ross)

1 - 100-671-5 (Organization)

100-9734-

SEARCHED

25

WANDEXED

SERIALIZED..

NOV 1 61961

FEL-- DALLAS

1) ~ 100-9734 (G.I. Forum)

• 100-671-34 (Mass Organizations)

1: ∞ 100-New (Maude Russell)

1 = San Antonio (RY) (John Stanford,

IS-C,: SA: #100-7232)

1 • San Francisco (RM) (Maude Russell, SM-C)

WHB: HM

(16)

NW 54463 DooId: 32323117 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 134- 4A-403A

Informant's

report further reflect

that AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA remarked that he

had

spoken to tro persons regarding

MAUDE RUSSELL, and that as a

result, he

had

obtained $10.

Therefore, he said, the fee to have

MISS RUSSELL as a speaker

presented

no problem.

He added;

that while they could raise

the

funds, they (he especially) could

not sponsor MISS. RUSSELL.

The logical personto do. it vr JoE LAweNce and his wife.

ESTRADA and LOWERY

had aiso suggested NAtALIL ROSS as sponsor.

ing MISS RUSSELL.

The ROSSES,

they remembered, have been having

family trouble and she mas a selling job that keeps her away

from

home.

BILL allegedly said that if the LAWRENCES could

not do it, he vould ask NATALIE if she could spare her house

(for the meeting), even il she could not attend. BILL LOWERY

gave instructions

* AUGUSTIN on how to contact JOE LAWRENCE.

First,

BILL WOUld tAlK tO LAWRENCE, after that AUGUSTIN would

CalL LAVRENCE at his place of business.

time tell AUGUSTIN he would neet him at "No. I in 15 minutes."

That meant that AUGUSTIN Should Call JOE LAWRENCE at "No. 1."

"No. 1" meant a public telephore number. BILl LOWERY supplied

that number to AUGUSTIN®

BILL LOWERY ASked ESTRADA that if

MISS RUSSELL was sponsored by NATALIE Of LAWRENCE, would it

or would it not be a Ce

affair

He said he'had to know because

they (NATALIE and LAWRENCE) bad, in the past, asked him that

about other affairs.

ESTRADA's reply was that it would not be

a Party affair.

AUGUSTIN, who seemed to have been drinking, got into

& lengthy,

senseless

discussion

with BILL LOWERY about fallout

and the

outlawing of the CP.

ESTRADA contended that while the

Supreme Court's decision to outlay the Party was a severe blow

to the party, the Party would go on.

After all, the CP's

headquarters

have been just & front

for years.

Besides,

1f

LOWERY was

over arrested his friends in the American G.I.

Forun and in

the Dads"

Club would help him.

They would

identify him

as

an

honest,

conscientious

wOrker.

These people

surely would consider the

fact that their organizations could

be noxt in being outlawed.

He and LOWERY recalled that the

Boy Scouts bad been called as 'belonging to a communist organi-

nation.

According to informant, JOE LANDIN disagreed with

saying he doubted seriously if anybody in the mentioned

organizations would come to the aid of an arrested CP member.

They would, he added, most probably would

isolate him or her.

•2 g

74 54463

DooId: 32323117

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 134-4A-403A

JOE LANDIN allegedly remarked

that it was not probable that

PTA'S, Dads' Clubs and the Boy Scouts would or ve outlawed.

Besides it could not be proved that these organization were

communists

Me urged them to

talk seriously and make con

structive suggestions. BILl said that working in different

organizations;

knowing people was the only defense they could

develop for themsolves. Their co workers in these organizations

had to come to their rescue.

He cited JOE LAWRENCE's interest

in the outlawing of the CP and assured him that there were

others like hin. JOE LANDIN saId he understood what he meant.

Informant had no additional iuformation.

14 54463

Doc1d: 32323117

Page 4

---

