# docid-32287055

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10331

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1098

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/05/1962

9

THP, MISUR, ACT, GAL, ASSOC, MARCI, PAT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287055

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

AVARELLi

The foregoing conversation is of interest from two

respective sides,

BUG " who is top one being the mention of the name "JOHNNY the

VARELLI, a well-known syndicate strong-arman

man who is reported to be involved in, among other, things, the

gangland shooting of a former FBI informant, JOHN HENNIGAN,

in which shooting VARELLI was reported? involved with FlORE

"De probably a reference to

PETE MC GUIRE, presently an investigator for the State's

Attorney General's Office and a Republican candidate for one of

the posts of Trustee of the Chicago Sanitary District.

MC GUIRE

has been reported in the past by CG 6343-C* to be close to

several of Chicago's top hoodlums and to have been contacted

by them in the past for favors.

MARCI then continues in a conversation with VIC (LNU) -

concerning the police raid on the Showboat Lounge, a Loop.

strip joint referred to earlier by this informant in which MARCI

evidently is one of the controlling influences in the operation

of this club.

Investigation to date has failed to indicate who

ROMEY might be but it is felt probable that this is someone

connected with the Chicago Police Department who has the responsibility

of advising MARCI of impending raids on "the outfit's" locations.

Their conversation was as follows:

MARCI:

VIC come on in. Listen tell ROMEY, get ahold of

him right now.

Tell him they knocked off the

Showboat last night.

went in and nailed

it last night and we didn't bave no tip off of

nothing that they were coming in there and it's

a (obs) pinch. They just made the pinch.

VIC:

They nailed the joint? It was knocked off last.

night? I'11 have him call you, if I can get him.

MARCI:

Tell him the guy with that other joint is JOHNNY.

VIC:

The Chez. He said that.

MARCI:

There was no reason for it.. And they didn't let me

know.

Have him call me VIC.

VIC:

I'11 be in touch. (leaves)

- 2 -

DocId: 32287055 Page 2

---

