# docid-32308876

## Page 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10297-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2522

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

02/10/1969

'PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

LCN, OC, ASSOC A/O MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT,

GAMBLING, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32308876

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14÷2017

Date:

2/10/69

Transmit the following in

Airtel

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

Airnall

(Priority)

TO:

Director, FBI

PROM :

SAC, San Francisco (92-1661) (P)

- SUBJECTS

La Cose Nostra (LCN)

AR - Conspiraoy

00: New York

Re San Francisco «irtel 1/28/69 and teletype 2/10/69.

La Cosa Nostra Activities

New York Division

On 1/30/69, SP 3208-PC advised SA's KENT Q. BRISBY

and RICHARD T. BRETZING that he recalled one BUDDY BELLAGIORTA

(phonetic), who used to hang out at the source's pizza parlor

During the twenty years when the source has

known BUDDY, that Individual has engaged in bootlegging,

cotics, hi-jacking, numbers, and bookmaking. He used to run

around with CHARLIE "BULLETS," whom the source said died from

natural causes six or seven years ago. As recently as a couple

of years ago, BUDDY was operating in the Bronx and Manhattan

The source sald he

was never introduced to BUDDY as a member of the LCN and thers-

fore couldn't definitoly say that he was a member; however, he-

is constantly associating with known members in New York.

whom he described

The source mentioned one NICK TARANTINO (phonetic),

as a member of the Luchese Family of the

LON in New York. TARANTINO runs poker games and books horses

sporting events out of a club located on Williamabridge

Bureau (Registered)

(2 - 137- SP 3208-PC)

-

to - Ango-S (Registered) REC-28 PA

• New Xork (Registered)

(2 - 92-5360)

3- San Francisco

(2 - 137-5207)

92-60542520

RLBIZCO

(24)

Approved

Sent

- M

56 MAR Speciage

got in Charge

PeT FEB 27-1909

THREE COPY TILAD

DocId: 32308876

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

RIBarcb

operation. The source said this CARMINE was arrested with tho

source two or three years ago in a gambling raid. (It is belleved

the source is referring to CARMINE SONEARATO) The source advised

that CARMINE 1s fully acquainted with TARANTINO'a entire operation

and is the type who would "break" under pressure. CARMINE is not

mown to the source as a member of the LON.

The source mentioned one VINCENT GENEROSO (phonetic),

who is bookmaking out of the Belvedere Bar on 2nd Avenue

between 105th and 106th Streota in Manhattan.

Across the street

from this bar is a liquor store, where many "old timers" in the

CCN congrogate in a back room and play cards. The source said

GENEROSO is frequently there also and is woll known to many

of the LCN members.

However, the source added that GENEROSO

has never been introduced or

pointed out to him as an LCN member.

The source mentioned ANTHONY FARANO (phonetic) as a

numbers operator and bookmaker on 128th Street in Manbattan.

Tho source did not think PARANO was a member, but advised that

he is used by the LON as an official in the meat union in New

York City. PARANO also has hidden ownership in a small bar

located in one of the towns just outside of Bronx. The source

advised that he has been to this bar, but does not now recall

The source identified AL MINIACCI (phonetio) as one

Of BENNY DE MARTINO's men in New York. AL operates the

Paramount Vending Machine Company, Bronx, New York, which the

source believed was located on Brookner Boulevard.

The source

does not know AL as an LCN member, but advised that he works

under the direction of DE MARTINO, who is a sapo decine in

the Genevese Family.

The source advised that Al placed cigarette

machines and vending juke boxes in the source's pizza parlor.

in New York and subsequently extended a loan to the source on

this equipment.

After the business fell through, AL removed

the vending equipment without prior consultation

with the source,

claiming all the money in them and demanding that the source pay

up on the outstanding balance of the loan.

The source said he

servicing the vending machines and does not feel obligated to

repay this loan until all of this other debts have been cleared.

- 2 -

DocId: 32308876

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 92-1661

RuBirto

The source was quizzed about the incident which he

had previously described involving PAUL VARIO and an explosion

involving lye. The source repeated the same details as before,

and stated that VARIO was particularly burned on his left hand

where his wedding ring was located and his left wrist where he

wore his watch.

A couple of small burns occurred on his face,

but the source did not know whether or not they were third-degree

burns. He said that the doctor's office where they rushed VARIO

was located about a block away from TADDO MARINO's bar, where

the accident happened. He reiterated that this doctor was

introduced as an IN member, but he did not know which family

he belonged to. He said that ho faintly remembered that the

doctor lived in the same building where his office was located.

The source said the name DR. MARIO TAGLIAGAMBI did not mean

anything to him.

On this occasion, the source told of the details which

resulted in 1958 with his own membership in the Luchese Family

of the LCN. He advised that he had beon a "recruit" under the

sponsorship of PAUL VARIO and that he met all of the qualifica-

tions for membership by the early summer of 1958.

He declined

to specify these qualifications. He said that PAUL VARIO took

him in VARIO's car to an out-of-the-way bakery in Brooklyn,

located on a side street where little traffic was present.

The source said he does not know Brooklyn very well and does

not know exactly where this bakery is, but he felt that he

might have a better chance pinpointing it with a street map

of Brooklyn. He advised that VARIO appeared tense while

driving him to this bakery, indicating that "the old man"

wanted to see the source and talk to him. VARIO explained that

"the old man" was his capo decine but that few people know about

him.

When they arrived at the bakery, VARIO introduced

the source to an old baker, the apparent owner of the shop.

The source said the baker was dressed very shabbily with long

sleoves on his shirt rolled up. He was about sixty years of

age at that time, was stooped over, about 5'7", 145 lbs.,

medium build, greyish hair. The source said one thing he

remembered most about the meeting was the agitation on the

part of the baker and his apparent desire to hurry up and get

them out of his bakery.

The baker quizzed the source on his parentage and

his association with VARIO and other ICN members.

Then he

dismiased both of them and VARIO brought the source back to

Manhattan.

- 5 -

DocId: 32308876

Page

.4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 92-1661

RIB:rtb

The source recalled that there was no other shopping

areas or visible stores in the neighborhood of this bakery.

according to the sourco, prior to his meeting "the

old man," PAUL VARIO had to get an

"okay" from PAULIE HAMM,

a sapo decine in the Luchese Family at that time in charge of

the ares where the source was from.

HAMM has since died of

natural causes.

The source said this is normal, when a

"recruit" is being made from a different area than the one

handled by the capo into whose regime he was being placed.

In this case, PAUL VARIO handled part of Brooklyn for the

Duchese Family and the source was from Manhattan.

A few days after this initial meeting with "the old

man," the source met in the union hall next door to the

Fontainbleau Flower Shop, Brooklyn, with PAUL VARIO, PETE (LNU),

whon the source described as the

"cumpard" of PAUL VARIO, BABE

VARIO, and CIRO (LNU), a cripple who runs a lunchenette in

Brooklyn and a member of the Luchese Family in VARIO's regime.

He said that PAUL VARIO had been given

to make the sourco an LCN member.

drank a toast and then turned their glasses up-side-down,

thus signifying that all of the procodings that went on

this meeting would remain sealed up as if insido the up-side-

down glasses.

The source was explained the codes of the LCN

and of the Luchese Family, all of the do's and dont's, and was

then taken by PAUL VARIO around to each of the others present

and shook hands with them, with PAUL sealing their handshake

with his right hand, repeating the words, "Le stessa cohe,

which mean in literal translation,

"The same thing.

source said this meant that he was the same as the ones with

whom he had shaken hands. At this point, the source said he .

was then a member of la bosa Nostra.

He added that shortly

thereafter the books were "closed" and no other members were

was visiting PAULIE

HAMM at a club on 112th between lst and 2nd Avenues.

at that time was the Capo over CARMINE TRAMUNTI and when HAMM

one taken around 1958.

- 6 -

DocId: 32308876 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

NuBirtb

The source elaborated on some of the instructions

he had received from PAUL VARIO during his initiation ceremony.

He was instructed to discontinue all activities with narcotics,

counterfeiting, smuggling, gun running, or any other activity

which fell within the primary jurisdiction of the foderal

government. Fights within the family would not be tolerated,

according to VARIO, and all differences should be brought to

the attention of the capo decine of the participants in the

disagreement. VARIO counseled the source to stop carefully

when he was entering new territory, so as to avoid stepping

on the toes of other families or other members of the Luchese

Fanily. He stressed that they wanted no wars. The source

was instructed to report to his capo decina before leaving

the New York area, as the capo might have someone he wanted

the source to visit or a message he wanted carried. VARIO

also told the source he must always have access to a gun or

The source was instructed to refrain from talking

about his membership in the LON, even to other members. It

emphasized that the source was never to contact "the old

man" without first receiving permission from VARIO. VARIO

stated that "the old man" would not stand for members to

drop in on him.

freited tho old mangource added that BABE VARIO has never

at the bakery to his knowledge. He has

seen him away from the bakery on a number of

a "score" was made, VARIO always took the "old man" his out.

The source was questioned about the possibility of

CHARLES GIAMPAOLO, also known as Charlie the Baker, being

identidal with "the old man."

The source said the name

meant nothing to him; he would have to see a photograph.

was told that GIAMPAOLO was allegedly affiliated with Ciro's .

club in New lork, and the source replied that the only ciro

he knows is Ciro's Bar on 4öth Street between Oth and Broadway•

He said this bar is sometimes called Duffy's Bar. However, he

said he has never heard of the "old man" being affiliated with

this bar.

The source said another member of PAUL VARIO's rogime

1s one BLACKIE (LNU), who is running a labor union for the

LCN in Harlem.

The source advised that one way of identifying TADDO

DE MARCO, who he had mentioned above, would be to check the

baptism records of JOEY DE MARCO, who was killed in 1958-59.

The source recalled that TADDO DE MARCO had mentioned that he

was not only JOEY's IN godfather, but his Church godfather as

well.

DocId: 32308876 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

RIB:rtb

The source advised that PEPI, who he had mentioned

above, had a brother-in-law named MORRIS (LNU), who had

served time in Atlanta with the source. He had arrived at

Atlanta in about 1955°

The source thought the full name

might be MORRIS CIACOI (phonetic sound like Chacoy). Ho said

PEEL was under PETE DELSI and TADDO DEL.

DELSI's brotner,

RALPH DELSI, 1s the boss of a labor union dealing with tar

and waterproofing, in addition to owning the Crow's Nest.

The source said that he nearly got into bad relations

with PAUL VARIO a couplo of years after he was made a member.

He was arrested by narcotics officers for conspiracy

1n

narCOcIOS WICe One CHARLIE LNU), who was the cousin of FRANK

FANI (phonetic), a member of the GAMBINO family.

The source

said that CHARLIE was a runner of his in his numbers operation

and was arrested one day in the act of paying the source for

his collection. CHARLIE was also dealing in narcoties and

had just come from a narcotica sale. He was under surveillance

at this time and the narcotics agents thought the source was

involved in the sale of those narcotics and arrested him along

with CHARLIE, The source advised that the LCN "sat back and

waited" to see how the disposition would turn out.

When tho

bookmaking, poker games, numbers, and peddling hot jewelry

and clothing.

At this time, the source admitted for the first time

that his present relations with PAUL VARIO were not good. Re

said VARIO got upset with him when he learned that the source

had obtained several shylock loans outside of the family with-

out clearing with him first. He said VARIO had already gone

out on a limb for the source with BENNY DE MARTINO of the Genevese

Family, sitting down with BENNY and arranging & schedule when

the source would pay back the loans already outstanding•

Then

the source obtained some more loans on top of this and, when

his business fell through, left New York without contacting

VARIO.

The sarce sald that he knows of at least one occasion

When PAUL VARIO has attempted to reach him through his brother,

who deals in Las Vegas.

This occurred a couple of months ago,

and VARIO's message was that he would like to sit down with the

source and straighten everything out, so that the source could

return to New York.

The source said he declined this offer,

suspecting that it was an attempt to get him out in the opon

- 8 -

DocId: 32308876 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 92-1661

RIB:rtb

where he could be "hit." He added, however, that he felt once

he got his shylock debts cleared up, he could probably renew

his relationship with VARIO and the LCN.

do indicated that

this would be a delicate undertaking and he stressed the need

to be oxtremely careful and to move slowly, for he folt the

possibility of his being killed was very real.

The source, at this point, began to discuss hi-jacking

in Now York, which he said was a specialty of the LCN. He advised

that a large lot existed in Brooklyn where the ICN took hot

trucks and transferred the stolen goods into trucks that were

not stolen.

He said he might be able to identify the where-

abouts of this lot if he had a street map of Brooklyn.

The source said the LCN also has numerous garages in

Queens

that are used as

"drops" for stolen merchandise. Other

"drops"

are located in the outskirts of the New York burroughs.

The source said JOHNNY ANGELO, whose nickname is JOHNNY ANG,

has several dropa.

He said ANGELO 1s a-member of the Gambino

Family and is one of the few persons to whom PAUL VARIO intro-

duced the source as a member of the ICN. This introduction

occurred as a result of the source contacting ANGELO and picking

up some stolen merchandise for VARIO. The source recalled one

of ANGELO 's drops was in a wastepaper shop (junk shop) in the

Bronx, near a club on Morris Park Avenue. Again, the source

said a map might help him pinpoint this location.

The source said PAUL VARIO never goes along on a

hi-jacking and most of the time, LCN members do not even go

along. Instead, they control the handling of the stolen

merchandise once the li-jacking has occurred.

The source explained that much of the hi-jacking is

handled with the complicity of the truck drivers, who are slipped

some money and give their trucks up without reporting the theft

for four or five hours.

Then they allow themselves to be tied

up and claim they were

hi-jacked, frequently blaming it on to

Nogroes.

This allows the hi-jackers to get rid of the stolen

goods without worrying about being spotted in the hot truck.

The source continued that many warehousemen and watchmen are

also paid off to allow thefts to occur either from the parking

lots or warehouses.

Most of these thefts occur on a weokend

and the theft is not reported by the watchmen until the hi-

Jackers have had sufficient time to unload the stolen goods.

- 9 .

DocId: 32308876 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2103 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

SE 92-1661

RIB:rtb

On 2/10/69, SF 3208-PC advised that it was rumored

among some of the members of the ICN that there were four or

five priests of the Roman Catholle Church in the New York

area who were members of the LN.

The source stated that he

has never personally met any priests who were known to him as

members of the LN. However, he said he found this idea to

be not entirely impossible, particularly in view of a recent

discovery by Italian police that some priests in Sicily were

members of the Mafia and were using a monastary to conceal

property stolen by the Maria.

Miscellaneous Information

The source advised that he met BILL BONANNO about

three or four years ago in New York City, through one JOE

NATARO, a close friend of the BONANNOs and the owner of a

trucking service in Brooklyn. The source advised that

BONANNO was hanging real close to NATARO because his father,

JOE BONANNO, had just been kidnaped. The source said he knew

Anastasia Family, before

that family was taken over by GAMBINO. According to SF 3208-PC,

NATARO has since died. He added that he has heard that BILL

BONANNO has moved to San Jose, California, recently and may

be getting some kind of an operation going

The source advised that he has met and been associating

recently with two burglars, ROBERT JOHN BARTHEL and WILLIAM MASON,

known on the streets as "Bob" and "Tim" respectively.

They

operate mainly in Los Angeles and San Francisco and maintain a

residence in the Los Angeles area, telephone number DU 4-9623.

According to the source, both of these individuals have recently

been involved in a "shakedown" of two unknown victims who are

evidently partners in a business.

Through BARTHEL and MASON

she spurse wap finteoduced to an Italien nicknaned bogustn

This individual was deseribed by the source as being about 46

to 48 years of ago, 519"

, 180 pounds, brown hair with receding

hairline, and a noticeably large flat nose.

He is allegedly

from Brooklyn,

New lork, and is sometimes called "Brooklyn.

He is apparently involved in this shakedown and is representing

someone in Los Angeles by the name of (FNU) SICA. (It would

appear that this person in Los Angeles could be identical to

either JOE, FRANK, or FRED SICA, three hoodlum brothers known

to tho Los

Angeles Division.)

According to the source, over

$5000.00 has been paid by the victims already and allegedly

taken to (FNU) SICA by "The Whip."

The source indicated that

he would remain alert to any further information concerning

this mattor.

- 10 -

DocId: 32308876 Page 9

---

