# docid-32291950

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10208-10226

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-66742-228

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

FARRINGTON, EDWARD F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/28/1963

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

PAL, ASSOC, REL, ACT, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291950

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• F7.963 (Rex. 3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MILWAUKEE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY;

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, aka;

ET AL

DATE

12/28/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/27 - 12/20/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA EDWARD F. FARRINGTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

kaj

ITSP; MF; ITAR - EXTORTION

REFERENCE

Miami

airtel to Bureau, 11/21/63.

LEADS

THE CHICAGO DIVISION

At Chicago, Illinois

Will, if not already done, refer to its file

entitled "STERLING-HARRIS FORD, INC. >

El AL, NBA, 00: Chicago*

CG file 49-2290) for complete review to determine nature and

extent of activities of FELIX ALDERISIO in that matter which

might be of interest to the Department.

COVER PAGE

A

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau

(87-66742)

3 - Miami

687-16480}

2 - Chicago (87-19740)

ALE INFORIMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

GENCY

1À G

Criminal Division

er 64 Attention: Mr. Walter J. Sherien

6 6г

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

87-66742-228 REC-21

-1535

NOTATIOI

700410

18-76324-1

DocId: 32291950

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the

Tohn E

.. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aêt of 1992 (11 USt ZUY Rote)?

- DATE: I1-14-2017

MI 87-6273

THE MILWAUKEE DIVISION

At Wausau, Wisconsin

Will locate EDWARD BEMBINSTER, last address,

909 South 22nd Street, and interview him as

requested in

referenced airtel.

ADMINISTRATIVE

For purpose of reporting, this matter is being handled in

keeping with the provisions of the ITAR classification with

three copies being designated for the Bureau to permit

dissemination.

One copy is being designated for the USA Office :

at Miami, and in the event no copy should go to that office

since the case is being handled directly by a Departmental

Attorney, Miami may so direct.

MI 602-C-TE, who is familiar with hoodlum matters in the

MiLwaukee area, on 11/27/03 advised SA JOHN H. GASSAWAY that he

knows and has been acquainted with FELIX ALDERISIO for some

time.

ALDERISIO ever-used any names similar to GOODKIND,

He does not know that while in the Milwaukee "GOODIE",

area that

GOODY or "Mr. GOODIE" or any close variation. Informant advised.-

further that

FELIX ALDERISIO himself did not operate the

"Hickory

, a barbecue spot on North 5th Street in Milwaukee but

that FELIX's wife operated it for a period of time but the

ALDERISIOs have been out of there for a number of years.

Informant stated a ROBERT BUNDE worked at the Hickory Way at

time but he does not know whether BUNDE was merely an

employee or had a financial interest. Informant advised he

knew nothing of BUNDE or where he is currently located.

COVER

• PAGE

B*

SOX- 10550

DooId: 32291950

Page 3

---

