# docid-32351234

## Page 1

Date: 01/03/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10076-10042

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

Released

under the Johr

Kennedy

Masassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) •

Cased:NU 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JMWAVE

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : JMWAVE CABLE RE REPORT IN MIAMI HERALD OF CUBAN WATER

SHORTAGE HAS PROMPTED CASTRO TO SEND SECRET ENVOY TO

US TO BUY SPARE PARTS FOR TWO DIESEL PLANTS.

DATE :

12/04/1963

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : CASTRO, FIDEL

JMWAVE CABLE

DIESEL PLANTS

SECRET ENVOY

WATER SHORTAGE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/25/95

COMMENTS: JFK17: F7: 1995.07.25.17:20:29:810028

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10076-10042

HH 53199 DocId: 32351234 Page 1

---

## Page 2

124 SECRET

ROUTINE

NO

FROM •

ASTONE

INFO 1

, DIRECTOR -

UPWAVE

DOr,

VR

C/SAS 3 (SAS COPY SLOTTED AT 2135, 4 DEC DO)

SEC REE 0500062

4 Dec 63 IN 7 37 22

DIR CITE MAVE

8509

IMMEDIATE ACTION

RYBAT TYPIC YOBITE

SITREP 4 DECEMBER 1963

I. INTELLIGENCE WIGHLI GHTS

A. KUJUMP INTEL. NOTHING TO REPORI.

B. WAVE INTEL. NOTHING TO REPORT.

C. KOLA AND KUTUBE/D. NOTHING TO REPORT.

# D. PRESS AND ADIO

1. MIAMI HERALD A DEC REPORTED:

AL CUBAN VATER SHORTAGE HAS PROMPTED SASTRO SEND SECRET

ENVOY TO US BY WAY MEXICO TO BUY 130,000 DOLLARS VORTH

SPARE PARTS FOR TVO DIESEL PLANTS SUPPLYING CJENCA SUR AQUEDUCT.

FRENTE DE JUVENTURES CRISTIANAS (FJC) REPORT SAID ENVOY HAS

ALREADY CONE TO MEXICO TAKING CASH WITH MIM, AND US AUTHORITIES

HAVE BEEN ALERTED TO FACT ME WILL COME MERE. LUIS SUAO, SECSER

JC, SAID PARTS VILL BE SHIPPEO TO CUBA VIA MEXICO.

B) FORMER COC TREASURY OFFICIAL JOSE ILLAN STATED IN

MIAMI THAT DRAFT LAW 1S DESPERATION MOVE SHORE UP CRUMBLING CUBAN

ECONONY. ALP RELEASE SAID CUBANS VILL FOLLON CHICON LEAD AND

SECRET

It 53199 DocIa: 32351234 Page 2

11099

---

## Page 3

CLASSIPIÇO MESSAGE

IN 73722

•PAGE 2

ATTENPT MAKE UP FOR LACK MACHINES BY USING SLAVE LABOR.

2. JOSE LUIS MASSO, WHIE & DEC COMPLÄINED THAT ME IS

COMPELLED TAPE RECORD HIS PROGRAM IN ADVANCE AND THIS HURTS CAUSE

CUBAN LIBERATION.

3. DIARIO LAS AMERICAS 4 DEC CARRIED PAID AD BY UNIDADES

CUBANAS MILITARES CUCM) COMMENDING VENEZUELAN PEOPLE FOR THE IR

MILITANT REJECTION CASTRO-COMMUNISM, AND SUGGESTING THAT THE

4,000 UCM MEMBERS TRAINED BY US ARMY SHOULD BE VANGUARD OF ANY

HEMISPHERIC MOVE TO LIBERATE CUBA. MIAMI NEWS SAID UCM HAS 450

HEMBERS AND NAS PRESENTED LETTER TO VENEZUELAN CONSUL MIAMI

ASKING PERMISSION TO FIGHT IN SUCH A VANGUARD•

4. DIARIO ALSO CARRIED INTERVIEW NEWLY-ARRIVED REFUGEE

CRISPIN GONZALEZ WHO SAID GOC REPRESSION HAS INCREASED IN ESCAM-

BRAY MTS, AND THAT 17 MILITIAMEN AND 6 REBELS VERE KILLED IN

RECENT CLASH THERE.

IL. OPERATIONAL DEVELOPHENTS

1. VT MESSAGE RECEIVED TROM AMVEE-I REPORTED HAD CACHED

MONEY RESUPPLY VHICH INTENDED TROM AMCOVE- 1 AND PEADY CACHE

ANWARK-1 VT SET.

2. VI NSO SENT ANWARM-I PROVIDING MIN VITH EXTRA SCHEDULES

NEXT THREE DAYS TO ENABLE WIN RETRIEVE VT SET AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.

3. SY MS&S RECEIVED FROM AMGAELIC-I, AMFOX-1 AND AMLAME-S.

TVO SV ISES RECEIVED FROM ARVARA-1• TIREE SU MSOS RECEIVED

FROM ANCOVE-1.

4. ARTAIP-IO DEPARISE VAVE FOR TOACRE A DEC 63.

NW 35199 DocId: 32351234 Page 3

---

## Page 4

: "CUSSED MESSAGE

IN_

73722

_ PAGE 3.

• -OWVL MSG SENT AMVEE-I•

6. HENRY J SLOMAN DEPARTED VAVE FOR MADRID TO DEBRIEF AND

TRAIN AMCROAK-I•

7. VAVE PLANNING INITIATE OUVL BROADCASIS CIRCA 7

DECEMBER USING DUMMY MSGS IN RUSSIAN, CZECH AND PERHAPS CHINESE

TO MARRASS AND CONFUSE OPPOSITION FORCES IN CUBA. (SEE UF&A

12789) •

B. CI

SEE VAVE 8455 RE RECENT AMKNOB- 1 MSG.

C. PV. NOTHING TO REPORT.

D. PM

AMBUM-I DEPARTED VAVE AREA FOR QUATEMALA CITY MORNING 4

DEC AFTER UNDERGOIN BRIEFING AND DEBRIEFING. A-I ALSO ASSISTED

BY STA IN PROCURING UPDATED DOCUMENTS TO ASSIST KIN 1N

TRAVELINE CENTRAL AMERICA WHEN ON MISSIONS.

E. 1S

PRESENTED IYEL BRIEFINES YOR OPS ANERACH ANO CLROPATRA.

ILL. LIAISON DEVELOPWEWTS

HOT NING TO REPORT

Iv.

ADRIN AND. SUPPORT

A• TRAINING

ARADDER TEAM RECLIVED RETRISHER RAINING IN LIVE TIRE

VRAPONS INSTRUCTION A DECERBER 63.

HIH

53199 DodId:22311034 Pare 4

---

