# docid-32305861

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10288-10491

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-6054-1ST NR 2337

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/06/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, CERRITO, JOSEPH, SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS, LIBEL

SUIT, TIME, INC.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305861

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

RECOrdS COMeCtIOn 400 Or 1592 144 05c 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 iFier. 5-22-641

FBI

Date:

6/6/68

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3434) 892-6054)

Attention: Assistant Director JAMES H. GALE

FROM: SAC, SAN FRANCISCO: (92-124) (92-593) (P)

JOSEPH CERRITO, aka.

00:, San Francisco

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

00: New York

Re San Francisco

airtel to the Bureau, 6/3/68.

For the information of the Buffalo, Dallas, Newark, Philadelphia,

Miami and Tampa Offices, a libel suit in the amount of seven

million dollars was filed by JOSEPH CERRITO, boss of the San

Jose family, LCN, against Time, Inc., publishers of "Life"

magazine.

The complaint filed pointed out that CERRITO has never

been and is not now a member of any criminal organization, as

inferred

in the "Life" magazine issues dated 9/14/67 and 9/25/67.

2

2

2

2

2

2

2

3

Bureau

83-92-3434)

- 92-6054)

Buffalo

Dallas

Newark

-

New York (92-2300)

- Philadelphia

Miami

Tampa

San Francisco (2-92-593)

(1 - 92-124).

92-6054-

NOT RECORDED

165 JUN 12 1968

CARDON CODY

ALL COPIES - REGISTERED AIR MAIL

HKM: jab

(23)

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

34.34-

ORIGINAL FILMD

Special Agent in Chaige

DocId: 32305861

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF-92-124

SF-92-593

HKM: jab

On

3/15/68 the issue of "Life" magazine published the third article

concerning. "The Mob" with emphasis placed on the activities of

JOSEPH CERRITO and members of his LCN family, as well as naming

JAMES JOSEPH LANZA, boss of the San Francisco LCN family.

Since the last article was released, the attorneys for "Life"

have filed in the Federal Court a motion directing that a deposi-

tion be taken from JOSEPH CERRITO on 6/25/68 at San Jose, California.

On 5/22/68 Mr. JOHN SUTRO, JR., of the San Francisco law firm of

Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro, advised that in connection with the

libel suit, subpoenas had been issued for the taking of depositions

from JAMES JOSEPH LANZA, ANGELO ANTHONY MARINO, EMANUEL JOSEPH

FIGLIA, DOMINICK ANZALONE, PHILIP MORECI, STEVE J. ZOCCOLI, ALEX

CAMARATA and PETER MISURACA, all of whom have been identifled as

members of the San Jose LCN

family.

On 6/5/68 SAM ALVID, a former security informant of the San

Francisco Division,

who has furnished reliable information

in

the past, but who is known to cooperate with various other

enforcement agencies, voluntarily advised that he had been in con-

tact with JOHN ARDIZZONE, of the law firm of Salciccia and Ardizzone,

on the afternoon of 6/5/68, at which time ARDIZZONE advised that in

the civil action involving JOSEPH CERRITO and "Life" magazine, at-

torneys for "Life" have subpoenaed numerous individuals throughout

the nation for the purpose of taking depositions.

It is noted that in addition to the eight individuals in the San

Francisco Division already known to have been subpoenaed, the fol-

lowing have also been subpoenaed:

JOSEPH CIVELLO, Dallas, Texas,

Date of hearing: Not known;

CARLOS GAMBINO, Brooklyn, New York,

Date of hearing:

6/4/68 รท

JOSEPH COLUMBO, New York,

New York,

Date of hearing:

6/4/68;

RUSSELL BUFFALINO, Scranton, Pa.,

Date of hearing:

6/5/68

-

2

DocId: 32305861 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Releasen

under the dohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF-92-124

SF-92-593

HKM: jab

STEVE MAGADDINO, Niagara

Falls, New York,

Date of hearing: 6/7/68;

GERARDO CATENA, Boca Raton,

Florida,

Date of hearing: 6/11/68;

JOHN MISURACA, St. Petersburg, Florida,

Date of hearing:

Belleved to

bE 6/11/68.

ALVID advised that according to ARDIZZONE, the only individual

currently being considered for deposition, insofar as his case is

concerned, will be the deposition of the author, SANDY SMITH, to

be taken

at San Jose on 6/26/68.

It is noted that on 6/5/68 Santa Clara County SO served subpoena

on ANGELO MARINO at his residence, 50 North Washington Street,

Apt. 12, Santa Clara, California.

The Bureau and all interested offices will continue to be advised

of activities taking place in this libel suit.

3

DocId: 32305861

Page 4

---

