# docid-32187736

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10246-10446

RECORD_SERIES:

NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-69-4186A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HARRIGAN. KEVIN J.

TO: SAC. NO

TITLE:

DATE: 10/10/1968

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSP, SANCHEZ, RIGOBERTO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/21/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45175 DocId: 32187736 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (105-0)

.10/10/68

SA KEVIN J. HARRIGAN

RIGOBERTO SANCHEZ

IS - CUBA

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

On 10/7/68, PCI

information concerning captioned subject:

furnished the following

PCI who presently works at a bar frequented mostly

by Cuban and Spanish speaking seamen, advised that subject

has been known to her for approximately one year.

He usually

works as a draftsman or seaman and is from Texas. PCI läste

observed him approximately six months age at some unrecalled

bar on Decatur St. PCI stated that the last time she saw

SANCHEZ he had been drinking quite heavily and was speaking

concerning Cuba.

However, PCI stated she did not knowawhether

he was pro or anti Castro,

but indicated he was dissatisfied

with the present situation in Cuba.

In addition, PCI recalled that SANCHEZ claimed to

have figured in the Kennedy Assassination investigation being

handled by District Attorney GARRISON. PCILTeCalled SANCHEZ

claiming that he allegedly furnished some type of map to the

Times Picayune newspaper, but he did not elaborate further

on this.

PCI advised that at the time SANCHEZ was discussing

Cuba and the Kennedy Assassination investigation he was under

the influence of liquor and had been drinking quite heavily.

Consequently, she advised that she did not pay much attention

to what he had to say and feels he might have been talking

only because of his heavyldrinking. However, she advised she

was making known to the FBI the identity of this person in the

event they had any futuneeinterest in him. PCI furhished

the following descriptive data and information concerning

SANCHEZ:

Sex

Race

Age

White

32 to

89-69-41869

SEARCHED _

—_ INDEXED

SERIALIZED....

__FILED

OCT 1 0 1968

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

Jilf

1

- 105-0

89-69

1

--

137-3331

KJH: cmp

(3) Спор

Tintite

HW

45175 DocId: 32187736

Page 2

3388.

OTHER 4

---

