# docid-32300687

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: STICKLE, WILLIAM W.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/03/1958

10

GM, BKG, ASSOC, REL, EMP, B/F INT, LEGAL ACTION, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45854 DocId: 32300687 Page 1

---

## Page 2

port Forni

- 78•(5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

• REPORTING OFFICT

CHICA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

GABRIEL MANNARINO, WaS.;

SAMUEL®MANNARINO,

Was.

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

19-3-58 2/13,14,25-27;3/13/58

REPORT MADE B

WILLIAM W. STICKLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

ess

Chicago,

RIHOR, Po. SCHWAR companies set forth herein'a

Interviewed and provided information

GREGORY GELDERMAN

splayed blank corporation record; he also provided some back-

round information concerning MILTON G. HAMMERGRAN.

forts to locate and interview BERTRAM B. DAVIDSON, SR., Who Cal

was described as an officer of National Filben Company.

Neither

SCHWARTZ nor GELDERMAN were aware of

any MANNARINO or further

Pittsburgh interests in United Dryer Companies.

SAMUEL MANNARINO

ARRESTED 1931 AS SUSPICIOUS PERSON AND FOR CARRYING CONCEALED

WEAPON.

GABRIEL MANNARINO IS SAID TO CARRY SMALL CALIBER. GUN

WHILE MAKING NUME COLLECTION.

CONSEQUENTLY BOTH MANNARINOS

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- P-

DETAILS:

CRET COST MEAD

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

On February 14, 1958, Pittsburgh was advised that PCI

was considered too close to "ZEKE WOLF, who

OTHER 4

was contacted by MANNARINO in January, 1958, to permit further

inquiry of

in regard to the purpose of MANNARINO's visit

SO SPECCHARGEN

N CHARGI

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9872918-

27

2: 720236

FDarnt CG, BS, SI

5-20-58

2-Buston

2-Springfieldl

4-Chicago

2

2-303

2 = 72-384

destroyed.

9/29/58 $$-13

.APR...8_1958

REC- 51

EX-126

• PROPE

-Khisfèport is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned

45854 DocId:32300687 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG

92-383

to Chicago.

However. g

said that MANNARINO did not make

any purchase from WOLF during

that trip.

On February 27, 1958, a further inquiry concerning

the officers and directors of

the presumably defunct United

Dryer Corporation was made at Springfield by Chicago, which

has not received an answer to this inquiry as yet.

OTHER 4

Dearborn, Chicago. SCHWARTZ is a partner of the

Silverman, Blumenthal and Schwartz.

Re United Dryer Company and

United Dryer Sales and Service Company

Chicago, Illinois

On February 25, 1958, ARTHUR F. SCHWARTZ advised

that he had a former client by

the name of OSCAR SCHULTZ,

whom he represented in the incorporation of a company called

United Dryer Sales and Service, Incorporated.

SCHWARTZ

advised that he was an incorporator of this company and also

had been.

Statutory Agent for it.

SCHWARTZ said that he had

represented OSCAR SCHULTZ, a man who owned a car wash and who

had also been in the coin operated machine business for

some time before SCHULTZ wanted to incorporate in order to

handle the manufacture and sale of a small, hot air, drying

machine for use in washrooms, etc.

SCHWARTZ advised that he thought that ScHULTZ had

hold of a good idea and that he would be producing a good

and saleable product in the 1952-1953 period.

SCHWARTZ said

he even got his partner, SILVERSTEIN, to agree to take their

fees in the form of stock in the corporation, but SCHULtz

would not agree to this SCHWARTZ advised it developed that

the product was not so good; in fact, the dryer would not work.

However, SCHWARTZ said that he had applied for and

obtained an Illinois Charter for the United Dryer Corporation

and all he and his partner could manage to collect out of it

was that they got their corporation costs from scHuLtz, but

he refused to pay them their fee. SCHWARTZ pointed out that

NW 45854 DocId:32300687 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-383

by Pittsburgh airtel, dated February 19, 1958.

3. Will recontact PCI

in regard

-to further visits of the MANNARINO brothers or FLORIAN ZOGG

to Chicago.

4. Will maintain contact with the Bismarck Hotel

to learn

of further visits of MANNARINO to Chicago.

5o Will report result of Intervion with ABE GOODMAN,

1255 North State

Sto, Chicago.

OTHER

4

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

• 9 .

NW 45854 DocId:32300687 Page 4

---

## Page 5

port Formo

-79 (5-12-25)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

PITTSBURGH

ILE OF CASE

moder

GABRIEL MANNARIN®

Was.;

SAMUEL MANNARIÑO, WaS.

DATE

4-3-58

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/13,14,25-27:3/13/58

REPORT MADE

WILLIAM W. STICKLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

ess

YNOPSIS:

ARTHUR F. SCHWARTZ, Chicago, interviewed and provided information

about United Dryer

Companies set forth herein. GREGORY GELDERMAN

furnished further information concerning United Dryer and

displayed blank corporation record; he also provided some back-

ground information concerning MILTON G. HAMMERGRAN.

Continuing

efforts to locate and interview BERTRAM B. DAVIDSON, SR., who

was described as an officer of National Filben Company.

Neither

SCHWARTZ nor GELDERMAN were aware of any MANNARINO or further

Pittsburgh interests in United Dryer Companies.

SAMUEL MANNARINO

ARRESTED 1931 AS SUSPICIOUS PERSON AND FOR CARRYING CONCEALED

WEAPON.

GABRTEL MANNARINO IS SAID TO CARRY SMALL CALIBER GUN

WHILE MAKING NUMBES COLLECTION.

CONSEQUENTLY BOTH MANNARINOS

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

. P.

DETAILS:

On February 14, 1958, Pittsburgh was advised that PCI

was considered too close to "ZEKE" WOLF, who

was contacted by MANNARINO in January, 1958, to permit

further

inquiry of

in regard to the

purpose of MANNARINO's visit

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

Q-Bureau

92

12918

122

4tt buz

2: 72-236

2-Buston

2-Springfield

tonicago

2 =

2-383

2 =

72-384

OTHER 4

PROPERTY OF FBI.—This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

NW 45854 DocId:32300687 Page 5

---

