# docid-32340186

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI.

124-90155-10001

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 65-68530-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

WMFO

HQ

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/24/1964

7

NOSENKO 1964 REPORTINGS

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32340186

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 1+D138(201710-29-63)

AIT TIMORUITTON CONTATHED "

FBI

FERDIR IS LOICTASSTETED EXCEPT

Date:

Transmit the following WhERE nom CheLse.

2/24/64

lain text

or code)

Classified

Via

221e3T

AIRTEL

150 2107-10t

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

3Ir.

Mohr

Mr.

Carper

Mr.

Cal shan

Mr.

Conrad:

Del oach

Mr.

Evar

Mr.

Gal-

Mr.

Roser

Mr.

Sulliv

NIr.

Tavel

MraT

Tele,

Reom

Miss

Holmes

Miss Gandy-

HERE

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SACK WEO (134-5437

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

(00: WFO)

MER

and MAURICE A. TAYLOR of this office with Assistant Director

INFORMATION a ne

WILLIAM C. SULLIVAN and MI. DONALD E. MOORE of the

Bureau

concerning interview with captioned subject. A

NOSENKO was interviewed on 2/24/64 at CIA safe

tAS

house"' in nearby Fairfax, Virginia, by SAs WALTER, TAYLOR anda

ALEKSO POPTANICH. The interview lasted from approximately

10:15 a:m. to 4:00

RELEASE OT CIA

THIS DOCUMENT!

less some 30 minutes for lunch at

the "safe house."

AGENCIES

APPROPE INTE

AND FIELD DAFICES

ADVISEG 3I R

SLIP(S) CH

The above

interview was tape recorded and detailed

notes were taken by interviewing Agents.

NOSENKO displayed

fair working knowledge of the English language but in the

interest of accuracy and clarity preferred to resorteto his

mative Russian very frequently and SA POPTANICH performed

the role of interpreter throughout.

NOSENKO 15 a voluble

and apparently somewhat high strung individual.

He indicated

genuine interest in assisting FBI

and assured Agents he

had every intention of cooperating to the fullest extent

with FBI.

He stated he did not desire publicity of any kind

Hin connection with information furnished by him and indicated

that he did not desire to have his revelations publicized

"or spread around in other organizations.

would not testify concerning

the

Bureau - 1 kuld vAB

information he fug

1568330

Newark (65-5460) CAROREAN

NEW

• York

• 5

MAR" 9 1964

- NFO

MAT: rIc

EXTERN

REASCI

c. a wick

17-11

CLASPRONE BY 56108

DECLASSIFY C

A DATE GÉ

DECLASS NO

194/844

SECRET

1259

10 30/20

DocId: 32340186 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NFO 134-5437.

u)

Confidential

contacted KEYZERS at the airport in Moscow and attempted

to get him to make a last-minute defection to the USSR but

failed. NOSENKO said KEYZERS became frightened when he

was approached at the airport and ran back to his military

escort.

It is observed this is in complete agreement with

information furnished by JAMES KEYZERS to the FBI when inter-

viewed by LA Agents in 1963. NOSENKO said KEYZERS was not

recruited by the KGB and furnished them no information. He

added in addition that no attempt had been made to contact

KEYZERS in Helsenki as he was en route to the U. s• kl

NOSENKO identified photographs of the individuals

listed hereafter as officers of KGB: 5)(U)

BAGRICHEV, NIKOLAI GRIGORIEVICH

IVANOV, VALENTIN M.

GOUK, YURI IVANOVICH

KOVCHUK, VLADISLAV MIKHAILOVICH

¡KURILENKO, IVAN YAKOVLEVICH

TITOV, VIKTOR

NOSENKO also identified positively several

individuals as Soviet Intelligence officers:

These are

listed hereafter®

It is noted he stated KISLOV was an

agent of KGB and not an employee of this organization

during the time KISLOV was in Washington, D. C.:/5,

BORODIN, NORMAN MIKHAILOVICH, above (KGB)

KISLOV,: ALEKSANDR K.

(KGB)

(u)

VIS CHUNOV, SERGEI (GRU)

NOSENKO advised that to his knowledge KGB has

not been

successful in penetrating FBI,

With regard to

KGB activities against the American Embassy the discussion

on this date was concerned mostly with penetrations into

the code services.

He stated he was familiar with the

ANDREY Case above

and had heard of the recruitment of [JOSEPH

ELI WHITAKER also a maintenance repairman, for A crypto-(5)

graphic equipment. NOSENKO stated however that in recent

years he did not believe that KGB had recruited any code

clerks

at the American Embassy including military code

clerks.

SECRET

Conf/dential

DocId:32340186 Page 3

---

