# docid-32184520

## Page 1

Released under the John f

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

VANNAN A UNEDICI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

1992 (44 USC 2107

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10240-10230

RECORD_SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

105-38431-1379

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/15/1968

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-5600

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

09/03/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32184520

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of. 1992 (41 U5c 2107

Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

1/15/68

SUCCINED

AIRIEL

NICH

(58K) 3/22196

CLASSIFIED BY 56685L0/GCe

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X(0)(6)

TO:"

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (205-38431)

(09/8193

LYR0 HBE

Classlied b

GAT

SUBJRCT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R

3/28/93

Encloned for the Bureau are ten copies of an

LAM reflecting the invitation by MARINA OSWALD PORTER

for her fathor to visit the United Statoo.

There is

also enclosed two copies of thie LuM for the Delles

(s).

The source of instant information ls x 51g*

a highly confidential and seneitive source.

In view of the highly sensitive source in the

IMM, the IM is being classifled "secret No Foreign

Discomination"

INFORMSTI

ON FROM THIS HIGHLY SENSITIVE SOURCE

MUST BE MOST CAREFULLY DAHAPARASED TO PROTECT THE BOURGE:

AND ANY INFORANTION DISSENTNATED OVISIDE THE BUREAU

SHOULD BE OLASSTETEL

"SECRET

NO FORTICA DISSTMINANION."

3 - Bureau

tanes.

10)

. (RM)

(100-10461) (Enes. 2) (RM)

Not honk

LOK:g

ICK

Castia 30020

Exempt

Category,

Tinite

Date baclessi.

CTASSIFICATION BY 12 5 Gon

778.

EXEMFT

1 MAY

DATE OF DECLASSIPICATION IDENTIA

6316

SPECT

105..

$x43413%1

DocId: 32184520

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-38431

(S)

(S)

on 1/14/68,

and seneitive source,

Efiniched rellable Infor

mation in the past, advised that on that date a

* Mrs.

MARINA PORTER, Dallas, Texas, was In contaet with hex

father, ALEKSANDR IVANOVICH MEDVEDEV, Apartment 43%

Obvodney Kanal B0, Leningrad, USSR.

Mrs.. PORIER Iden

tifled herself as Mrs. KENETH FORTER and is apparently

the widow of LEE HARVEY OSWALD. DEGRE

In addition to being in contact with her father,

MYE. PORTER was in contact with her sister TANYA and

brother PAIR.

Nee. PORTER indicated that she has thres

ahe has forgotten much of her

Russian and that ehe will be 27 yeara of age on 7/17/68.

She advloed that hor husband, KENNEl PORTER, 1a 29.

Inquired if her relatives in

the USSR received a package

that she had sent two yeare ago.

They advised that such

a package had been received.

She indicated that hor

husband and children do not

speak Russian. est

Nra. PORTER Invited her father to visit her in

che

United States, as her guest and that she will pay for

his transportation.

She suggested that if he wanted to come

to the United stated, he should write to the U.S. Embasoy.

MIE. PORTER WAG

advised that her father had recently

married. They all expressed their mutual well being and

affection for one another genes

happy.

Mre. PORTER stated that she le healthy and very

She Indicated that the loves her husband and he

very

loves

hor.

She described him as call.

black hair and

beautiful

eyes.

She stated that she has a very nice home

consisting of three bodrooms, two batha, & kitchen, dining-

room and a large garden.

- 2m

BISCRES,

DocId: 32184520

Page

---

