# docid-32315407

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI-

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10125

RECORD SERIES : DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-802-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CV

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/1964

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY GIACALONE, ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v01

DocId: 32315407

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 92-1075

on 6/24/64, Cleveland requested Las Vegas to furnish a

photograph of LEVINSON and background information regarding LEVINSON's

Miami was requested to furnish a photograph of SIGELBAUM

and other Miami hoodlums who might attend this reception.

By teletype dated 6/24/64, Las Vegas requested Los Angeles

to furnish Cleveland background information on LEVINSON's wife, the

former BETTY SALLY STEINBERG and Identity of her relatives in

Cleveland®

By teletype dated 6/24/64, Los Angeles advised that

IEVINSON had

married BETTY SALLY STEINBERG, nee soss, at Los Angeles,

on 5/31/64.

Her parents were DANIEL SOSS and ANNA KAUFMAN SOSS.

on 6/25/64, CV 616-C advised SA JOHN J. BARRETT that

he had received the following information from MORTON SOSS, brother

BETTY S. LEVINSON, regarding EDWARD LEVINSON's proposed

trip

to Cleveland.

It is noted that MORTON SOSS is self-employed as a

CPA with offices in the Hippodrome Building, Cleveland.

soss stated that EDWARD LEVINSON, owner of the Fremont

Hotel, Las Vegas, had married his sister BETTY STEINBERG, the widow

Of DAVID STEINBERG, on 5/31/64, In Los Angeles, and that a family

get together was being planned

in Cleveland so

that the SOSS family

could meet LEVINSON for the first time.

He further advised that

BETTY LEVINSON, with her two children SHELLEY STEINBERG, age 10

and MATTHEW STEINBERG,

age l1, were presently in Cleveland and were

staying at the home of her sister, MrS. WILLIAM WILKOFF, nee Jean

Soss, at 17551 Shaker Boulevard, Shaker Heights, Ohio. According

to SOSS, EDWARD LEVINSON, upon his arrival In Cleveland, would be

a house guest of the WILKOFFs during his stay in Cleveland. SOSS

further advised that LEVINSON was expected to arrive In Cleveland

6/25/64, accompanied by his son, RICHARD,

and his wife,

and also

MICHAEL LEVINSON, brother of EDWARD.

stated that these individuals

would be staying at the Shaker House Motel, Shaker Heights, Ohio,

as would other out-of-town guest who were to arrive later.

Soss stated that the following activitles were planned

for the LEVINSONs during their stay in Cleveland:

During the evening of 6/25/64, a cookout was to be held

at the residence of Mrs. ROBERT SILL, 24144 Duffield Road, Shaker

-2 -

DocId: 32315407

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 92-1075

Heights, Oh10. Mrs. SILL 1s the daughter of Mrs. JEAN WILKOFF.

During the evening of 6/26/64, a cocktail party and

dinner for the family and out-of-town guests was to be held

at the WILKOFF residence.

On Saturday evening, 6/27/64, a cocktail party and

dinner dance was to be held at the Hotel Cleveland Sheraton,

honoring the LEVINSONs and approximately 150 individuals were

expected to attend this affair. According to sOSS, LEVINSON was

paying for this affair.

On Sunday, 6/28/64, MORTON SOSS and his brother, BERNIE

SoSs of Youngstown,

Ohio, were to hold a brunch at the Executive

club, woodmere Village, Ohio, for the family and out-of-town guests.

SOSS

stated LEVINSON was expected to leave Cleveland on 6/30/64.

soss also advised that SAM GARFIELD, President of Mammouth

011 Company, Clare, Michigan, was expected to attend the reception

and discuss with LEVINSON his o1l interests in Morrow County, Ohio.

Soss stated that there was no indication that. MEYER LANSKY waS

expected in Cleveland for this affair.

Bureau Agents observed the arrival of EDWARD LEVINSON,

his brother MICHAEL, and his son and daughter-in-law at the Cleveland

airport on the afternoon of 6/25/64.

During the evening of 6/27/64, SAS JAMES F. KELLY and

JOHN W. TOULAN, JR., observed SAM GARFIELD and BENJAMIN SIGELBAUM

entering the reception in honor of LEVINSON at the Hotel Cleveland

Sheraton.

SAM GIANCANA nor MEYER LANSKY were observed. It is

an ones

to be noted that the Miami Office had reported that MEYER LANSKY

was observed at Hallandale, Florida, on 6/27/64.

On 6/29/64, CV 617-C advised that BENJAMIN SIGELBAUM

had left Cleveland by plane for Miami at 10:00 AM on 6/28/64.

This source advised that SAM GARFIELD left by automobile for

Detroit during the afternoon of 6/28/64.

Source also advised that LEVINSON and his wife departed

for Las Vegas on 7/1/64, and their arrival was verified by the las

Vegas Office on 7/1/64.

It is to be noted that in connection with captioned case,

the Las Vegas Office had advised Cleveland on 6/23/64, that EDWARD

.- 3-

DocId: 32315407 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 92-1075

TORRES, Owner of the Fremont Hotel, Las Vegas, and a suspected

courier of skimmea funds, accompanied by MARVIN COLE, alsO Of

Las

Vegas, had left Las Vegas

on 6/23/64, at 1:30 AM and were to

arrive at Marion, Ohio, at approximately 10:30 AM on the same

Investigation by the Cleveland Office at Marion, Ohio,

on

with MEYER LANSKY at the Holiday Inn, Marion,

Ohio, and after

visiting the oil fields with GARFIELD returned to Las Vegas by

plane athat evening, arriving in the early morning hours of 6/24/64.

Later in the day, on 0/24/04,

LEVINSON was observed by Las Vegas

Agents in conference with TORRES, BRYANT BURTON, Attorney for the

Fremont Hotel, at the Las Vegas

airport.

In view of the above incident and the fact that LEVINSON

had left for Cleveland during the evening of 6/24/64, Cleveland

was alerted to ascertain any possible meeting between LEVINSON and

NEVER LANSKY, It was later determined that LANSKY had left Marion,

Ohio, on the

alternoon of 6/24/64, destination unknown; however.

as noted above he was observed at Hallandale, Florida, on 6/27/64.

on 6/30/64, cv 616-c advised that he had no information

regarding any discussion between LEVINSON and SAM GARFIELD regarding

01] interests, but added that he understood they had been friends

for many, many years.

DocId: 32315407

Page 4

---

