# docid-32289713

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10489

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-1690-85

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LUND, DOUGLAS RAY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/20/1967

PAGES:

28

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF RCMP

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO RCMP

HH

v9.1

45855

DocId: 32289713

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

LA 166-445

By communication dated 11/7/67, the New York

Office set forth information relative to the receipt of tel

ephone toll tickets for calls made from the warwick hotel,

New York, New York, from a room listed to RUBY LAZARUS. FD

302's concerning these telephone receipts are contained in

the details of this report.

By communication dated 11/3/67, the Miami

Office advised that on 10/30/67, inquiry was made with an

official of the Southern Bell Telephone Company, Miami,

Florida, as to the availability of certain telephone records.

It was

ascertained that the records for telephone numbers

531-1547 and 531-5611, subscribed to by RUBY LAZARUS, had

been destroyed in the normal course of operating procedures.

On 10/26/67, MM 886-C advised SA's NORMAN E.

BLISS and WARREN R. WELSH that RUBY LAZARUS owed him approx.

mately.$1,200 for gambling debts and LAZARUS also owed approx.

imately $25,000 to MICKEY ZION for gambling debts.

Source

added that LAZARUS was also heavily indebted to the bookmaking

office of JOHN PROKOS.

MM 886-C related that he would not testify in

any judicial proceeding regarding these gambling debts.

On 10/27/67, MM 1250-PC (former employee of

the PROKOS bookmaking office) related that LAZARUS did and

still owes a considerable amount of money to the PROKOS Office

which is now inioerative.

Source corroborated information gain-

ed from a review of the PROKOS bookmaking records to the effect

that LAZARUS, as of 11/28/65 had account No. 45 and that as of

that date, LAZARUS owed $1,155 to the bookmaking office.

is noted that records seized at the PROKOS bookmaking office

contain the home telephone number of LAZARUS and telephone num-

ber of the Seville Hotel, Miami, Florida.

On 10/30/67, MM 1250-PC advised that he had

contacted the PROKOS brothers in regard to their testifying

before a FGJ in Los Angeles concerning the indebtedness of

• LAZARUS to them.

According to source, the PROKOS brothers

would have no qualms about testifying

against LAZARUS, however,

they would

not testify in any case because of the "moustaches"

behind the interest that LAZARUS formerly represented. Source

related there was no question that LAZARUS was an active book-

maker in the Miami, Florida area.

-D=

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DooId: 32289713 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Los Angeles (Attn: AUSA GERALD F. UELMEN)

Report of:

Date:

DOUGLAS RAY LUND

11/20/67

Field Office File #:. 166-445

Title:

VINCENT ALO;

ET AL

Ofice:

Los Angeles

166-1690

Bureau File #:

Characier:

Synopsis:

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION IN AID OF. RACKETEERING -

GAMBLING; CONTEMPT OF COURT JEK LaW 10(a)2

appeared before FGJ, at Los

8/31/67. Immigration and

ed Police data regarding citizenship and results

of passport status inquiry of GERTRUDE ZAROWITZ.

set forth.

Interview of ALVIN WEISBERG, former

employee of FRANK "LEFTY" ROSENTHAL'S bookmaking

concerning

OfFICE, MIANI, FLOridA, SEE LOFARUS. POJ Fa-

bookraking activity.of

convened

at Los Angeles.

a true bill charging LAZARUS with

11/16/67, and returned

a seven count

perjury indictment.

Federal bench warrant issued

11/16/67 and bail

set at $10,000. AUSA, LOS

Angeles, made arrangements, through attorney of

RUBY LAZARUS, fOL LAZARUS

to surrender to USM,

New York, New York.

-

P-

INS

REVIEWED BY EBI/JFK TASK FORCE

aN: 9/4/92 Cal

DA RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

FOREIGN.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It Is the property of the FBI and is loaned lo

your agency: It and its contents.are. not to be distributed outside your agency.

45855

DooId: 32289713 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA: 166-445

At time of appearance before the FGJ convened in

produced

JFK Law 10(a)2

Also produced

The records of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,

Passport Office, Ottawa, Canada, revealed that one GERTRUDE

ZAROWITZ, nee APPLETON,

born March 20, 1911, at Toronto,

and residing at 2998 Prairie Avenue, Miami Beach, Florida,

was issued Canadian passport No. 4-953559 on December 29,

1959.

This passport was

renewed on March. 9, 1965, at which time she

was residing at 180 Tropicana Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada.

According to the passport records,

GERTRUDE ZAROWITZ claimed

she was visiting her daughter in New Orleans who attended

Sophie Newcombe College.

6

FOREIGN,

45855

DocId: 32289713

Page 4

---

