# docid-32313404

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/22/20

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10330-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-107261-1452

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

02/11/1966

PAGES:

41

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 52333 DocId: 32313404 Page 1

---

## Page 2

rD-263 (Rev. s-Ä-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LOS ANGELES

TITLE OF CASE

"MINUTEMEN"

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

DATE

2/11/66

REPORT MADE BY

C.

ROBERT STRANGER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7127/65-2/2/66

w.L120ge-14993s

10-13-92

321.960

9803RDD/.CSL

INFORMATION CONCERNING (IS)

REFERENCES:

Los Angeles report of SALLOYD O. BOGSTAD

dated 7/16/65.

Newark report of SA GERHARD P. HUNDT datec

7/26/65.

San Diego report oi SA WILLIAM S. OVITT

dated 9/28/65.

Chicago report of SA JOHN P. O'BRIEN dated

10/20/65.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

Copies of this report are being disseminated

locally to ATTD, Secret Service, and local military

intelligence agencies.

One' copy each of this report is designated for

Las Vegas and Phoenix for information.

SPECCALARGEN

I TYPED BY

jmb

COPIES MADE: UF

See Cover Page B

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

62+107261-1452

REC- 50

EX 105

18 FEB 16 1966

Agency

Request-Feed.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

212

DUIE

782-46

Notations

Bia:750020)

ENtiRE

copies made

FilE

for reviev at FBINQ by

HSCA Request 2lar/18

1086

HW 52333 DocId: 32313404

Page 2

---

## Page 3

. C

LA 62-5101::

Copies made:

7 - Bureau (62-107261) (RM)

- ATTD, Los Angeles

(RM)

(RM)

- Secret Service, Los Angeles (RM)

1

Interviews have been conducted with those indi-

viduals associated with the Minutemen organization who

would most likely have had knowledge concerning the

whereabouts of KEITH GILBERt,

FUGITIVE -

BAIL JUMPER.

in Canada and CAREY is still a Federal Fugitive.

On 9/24/65 RALPH RUSSELL BLANCO, voluntarily

appeared

at the office of the FBI Resident Agency, Santa

Ana, California, and was interviewed by SAs PHILIP P.

HANLON and JEROME E. MEINERT.

During interviews of reported Minutemen,

(LA 4730-C) and DON B. O'HIGGINS (former PSI)

were developed as sources of information concerning the

activities of the organization.

recently furnished

information resulting in the apprehension of GILBERT and

O'HIGGINS has been closed as a PSI due to his extensive

criminal background.

This reportis classified confidentratas it

contains information furnished kyLA*T-2, LA T-3, LA T-6,

and LA T-7,

which could reasonably result in the

disclosure of confidential informants of

continuing value

and compromise the future effectiveness thereof.

OTHER 4

-B -

COVER PAGE

HW 52333 DocId:32313404 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• is

LA 62-5101

INFORMANTS

SOURCE

LA T-1

PSI, Kansas CIty

Office

LA I-2

CSLA 3971-S

LA T-3

NK 2545-S

LA T-4

LOCATION

62-5101-719

OTHER

62-5101-672

679

134-2635-A

Not used

LA I-5

Former PSI

DON B. O'HIGGINS

(conceal per request)

LA T-6

A 4485-R

62-5101-587

588

638

62-5101-576

623

689•

LA T-7

LA 4730-0

' 62-5101-615

618

691

Orally to SA O. JAMES HOLBROOK

on 1/24/66

LA I-8

62-5101-620

HOMER MINER

Assistant Postmaster,

U. S. Post Office,

Buena Park, California

(conceal per request)

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 52333 DocId: 32313404 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 62-5101

SOURCE

LA T-9

Mr. W. ANDREWS,

Postal Carrier,

U. S. Post Office,

Buena Park,

California

(conceal per request)

LOCATION

62-5101-620

LA T-10

62-5101-621

Former PSI

THOMAS SKEELS

(conceal per request)

LA T-11

62-5101-649

JOEL M. TAYLOR,

Special Agent,

California Bureau

of Criminal Identification

and Investigation,

san Diego, Caliiornia

(conceal per request)

- D*

-

COVER PAGE

HW 52333 DocId: 32313404 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMFDENMAL

1

- ATTD, Los Angeles (RM)

Copy to:

] - Region II, Pasadena (RM)

- Secret Service,

Los Angeles (RM)

Report of: C. ROBERT STRANGER

Date:

diss Angeles, California

2/11/66

Field Office File 52-5101

Title:

"MINUTEMEN"

Bureau Fi62=107261

9803RDD CL

J 10-13.92

321.960

Character: INFORMATION CONCERNING (INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopsis: JAMES J. HIGGINS, also known as Jim Hart, reported

as Coordinator for the Minutemen in area

of Los

Angeles County North of Long Beach, California.

HIGGINS receiving bulk subscriptions of Minutemen

organization as leader Los Angeles area. LLOYD

in Long Beach area of Southern California. PULLEN

recently indicated Long Beach

group of Minutemen

discontinuing affiliation with National Minutemen

Organization.

As of December, 1965, 28 individuals

in the Los Angeles area reported receiving literature

from National Headquarters.

Meetings were held in

Los Angeles in June and July, 1965, however, were

discontinued upon arrest of National Minutemen

Coordinator,

ROBERT DE PUGH, on local kidnapping

charges in Missouri. Minutemen groups in Long

Beach and Santa Ana areas of Southern California

continue

to hold meetings at residences of members

at irregular intervals.

Sources advised no head-

quarters or office maintained in Los Angeles area.

Finances, stated objectives and activities set forth.

COMIN

TAL

arminer prom antonetic

downgrating and

reciass rication

declan fral/$/9175

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the in ceN

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

'H₩ 52333

DocId: 32313404 Page 6

---

## Page 7

LA 62-5101

Above records reveal that DENNIS PATRICK MOWER,

13136 Vanowen Street, North Hollywood, California, was

arrested by the Vice

Detail, Los Angeles Police Department,

on August 6, 1965, for lewd

conduct.

LA I-6 (7/27/65)

on above. date the source advised that he was

recently contacted by NORMAN TALLAKSEN, who source

stated resided with Dr. WESLEY SWIFT in Lancaster,

California. An application for the Minutemen was filled

out in TALLAKSEN's presence and $5 was collected as an

application fee.

A copy of the application was not

allowed to be retained by the applicant.

TALLAKSEN

advised that he had recrutted seven other persons for the

Minutemen in the Lancaster area recently.

LA I-6 (4/11/65)

aba. De. Westa

Reverend WESLEY A SWIFT, as of above date,

was Pastor of the Church of Jesus Christ -

Christian in Los Angeles. During 1963, SWIFT's

residence, 44616 North Flg Street, Lancaster, CaLif

served as

headquarters for an organization

called the Christian Knights of the Invisible

Empire and he was a leader of a group called the

California Rangers in 1963.

on July 20, 7965.

an automobile bearing California

tags was obserked at a meeting of the Minutemen which was

held in Las Vegas, Nevada,

Records,

Department of Motor

vehicles,

Califomla (8/25/65)

Records of the above agency indicated that the

cribed in drivers

" driver Meetel de, as coma.

1941, 200 pounds, blond hair and blue eyes.

Meradar

- 15 -

III,

HW 52333 DocId: 32313404 Page 7

---

