# docid-32578775

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM-NO. TO

UNITED+ STATES

Memoran

'SECRET"

Tolson -

Mohr -

Persons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINET

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERE

TO

:Mr. L'Allier

DATE: November 22, 1960

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

FROM : S. J. Papich

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SUBJECT:

QUOVINENTO DEMOCRATICO HEIST TAN AS SANTA RAT

(CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT)

(MDC )

RA - CUBA

Reference is made to letter dated November 2, 1960,

from Miami captioned as above.

S) On November 17, 1960, the Liaison Agent contacted Clark

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and inquired if CIA

was supporting the captioned organization or the reported training

(Simmon' SEattention

"Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD), an organization receiving

CIA support.

The Liaison Agent further commented that individuals

Gassitied by SPUBJA

#mentioned in connection with the MDC activities such as General

Martin Elena and Doctor Jose Ignacio Rasco have been key figures in

E the PRD operations• (50005

on November 21, 1960, Simmons Bavised that MDC is not

being supported by CIA but the Agency will have occasion to contact

Declassity

individual members and will use such individuals in FRD activity

sif it is believed to be worthwhile. Simmons Stated that CIA definitely

&is not involved in the reported training activity taking place in

Florida.

Checks with FRD leaders failed to disclose any information

Sto substantiate such a report.

In this connection Rasco advised a

cIA representative that he knew nothing about such trairing operases?

Simmons ad

advised that CIA has no objection to any investiga-l

tion which might be conducted by the Bureau. (ST)N

ACTION:

The above information is being directed

to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

SJP: bas pas

(5)

REG 22

97-4110-23

1

1

1

Mr.

Donahoe

Mr.

Nasca

- Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

1.24

• DEC 2 1960€

5 ODEC7

fet to A At

Yeagle

DINARS

105)

1960

11-29-60

ADS/pu SECRETI

MAT LANA

SER FEVERST

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION:

NW 45872

DocId: 32578775 Page 1

---

