# docid-32310619

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10306-10028

HQ

CR 97-3652-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/18/1959

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

JAN, INTV, HELLER, DONALD J., POLIT ACT, ACA.

AIRPLANE, ARMS SHIPMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310619

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Refeased under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4T U5C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 97-256

SECRET

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

This report is being classified "SECRET"

inasmuch as intormation furnished byay I-cla con-

fidential source abroad, so elasaliladeles

- INFORMANTS -

IDENTITY

I-2 - (IA I(U)

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL

INFORMATION

Bulet to Miami dated

1/9/59 entitled:

"CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES - IS - CUBA"

T-2 - (confidential

source abroad](s)

Information from

Sconildential source

abroad to Bureau or

2/16/59.

Copy of

information furnished

to Miami as enclosure

to reBulet 2/24/59.

T-3 - MM 639-S

134-238 Sub A, serials

147, 161 and

154

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and they were concealed

only in those instances where identities must be con-

cealed.

A.

- COVER PAGE -

SECRET

300 - 10078

97-3652-4

DocId:32310619

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

un tries i

51201 (807.9-2348)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy tor

ALt INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

Ropiar of:

File Numbers

THies

& Boricten

1

INS, M1am1

- U.S. Customs,

Miami

ROBERT JAMES DWYERHAS NO OBJECTIOIOMEN

MAR 1 8 1959

MIAMI

DECLASSICA -TUR AND/OR

(MM: 97-256)

RELEASE OF UNA INFORMATION

DONALD J. HELLER

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 10-9-97

LD KSR 11-14-99 26180

Classified by

75 RUC

Declassify on: OADR

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

(PEMA GOL

211,326

7118/44

YM T-1, on December 26, 1958

advised

that

N-2215-G was being used by Cuban rebels.

Cessna airpLane

• FAA records l'

reflected this airplane belonged to subject from September 25,

1958 to November 16, 1958.

1959,

Subject interviewed February 24,

advised he flew this plane to Havana, Cuba in November,

1958 to demonstrate plane to a client.

Subject said he flew

plane to Nassau on another occasion but plane never used

in connection with Cuban rebel activity. MM T-2, on

February 16, I959, advised that subject

said planes belong-

ing to his company were used to fly aims to cuba.

Subject

reported assisting in conversion of Cuban pesos and attempt-

ing to assist in evacuation from Cuba of families of BATISTA

supporters.

Subject reported to have commented about arms

shipment from Europe to Dominican Republic.

Subject pre-

dieted overthrow of Haitian government and revolution in'

Colombia SYM T-3 in November and December, 1958 saia sub-

„ject was friendly with Cuban rebels, talked about running

guns to Cuba and leased airplane to ENRIQUE, DE CURSO, who

flew to Cuba and erashed in ocean off Key West, Florida.

"BUZ" MILLER, salesman for Liberty Aviation, was in contact

wIth JOSE ALEMAN, head of "Cuba Rebelde" A Subject in

aviation business in

Miami for less than one year.

reportedly came from New York, 1s a pilot and head of

Subject

Liberty Aviation

Company.

at subject's company.

Cubans in Miami have been seen

1000-010

-2

-P-t

DETAILS:

16c

40SZ, Custons, Tirig

3-30-59

hocuber sitial

L:

This investigation is predicated on Information

received from MN T-1, anothefegayernment agency which (sU.

97-3652-

a document costalus neither recondiendallons nor soclusions di any kind. It is the property of the Fll and lo loon totdor epancre

it and/or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32310619 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NiC 97-256

1150114

SECRET

Mr

HELLER stated that in early November, 1958,

he was attempting to

sell this airplane to a client,

and

in order to demonstrate the plane to him, he flew this

client to Havana and spent the day. su

Mr. HELLER

stated that on another occasion

he personally flew the airplane to Nassau, British West

Indies, and

returned the following day.

Mr. HELLER

said that other than these two flights made by him

personally with this airplane,

the plane had never been

out of the United States during the time he owned it.

He advised that to the best of his knowledge while the

plane was in the United states' it was never used in conneot-

Ion with any Cuban rebel

activitt, although it

NaB possible

that some student pilot of cuban nationality might have

flown It:

another matter.

his Intorvis ra conducted iu centection with

N T-2, & confidential source abroad, on

February 16, 1959, advised that according to a reliable

source in Nassau,

Britiah West Indies, DON HELLER,

President of Ilberty Aviation, 10700 Coral Way, Tamiami

Airport,

Miami, Florida, had stated that some

unidentified

planes,

the property of Liberty Aviation, had been used

to

fly arms to cuban rebel leader FIDEL CASTRO in Cuba.S)

VM T-2 stated that he believed that HELLER and

IRWINK

KARDEN

a Last Dildo Drive, DeLido Island, Miami,

were engaged

In supplying arms to different revolutionar

-organizations

in different places in Central America and

the Caribbean.

MM T-2 said that HELLER and KArDEN were reported

to be helping in the conversion of a large number of

Cuban pesos into other currends and that the pesos had

been brought into Miami by persons who fled Cuba after

IN T-2 said that HELLER

and KARDEN were also trying to facilitate transportation

out of Cuba for some of the families

of the supporters

of former president BATISTA. (5)

IM T-2 continued that HELLER and KARDEN

reportedly stated

that in about January, 1959, a

shipment of small arms left an unknown European seaport,

destined for the Dominican Republe: (S)

=4 -

97-3652-4

DocId: 32310619 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 97-256

-2 advised that kette and KARmeN aportedIoCRET

stated that as

soon as things became more stable in

Cuba,

"the Cubans would make an attempt to overthrow

the government of RAFAEL TRUJILLO in the Dominican

Republic and later anattempt would be made against

the government of Haiti.

They explained that the

attempt to overthrow the Haitian government would be

Led by an argence cavanet, whose name Boundedo

Something like

HELLER and KARDEN

reportedly stated that later, a revolution would

take place in Colombia, South America,

and it was

T-2's opinion that possibly HELLER and

KARDEN would

assist in that revolution.

15A5

MM 13, on November

10, 1950,

advised

that DONALD J. HELLER, President

or Liberty

' Aviation

Company,

Tamian Airport, Miami, Florida, and Mr.

(TILER, & salesman

employed by fitter were

friendly with Cuban nationali, rebels and

exiles who frequented the flying fac1litles of

Liberty Aviation.

Reportedly they used a tape

recorder to record all conversations

taking

place in their office, and all telephone calls

received. T-3 also stated that HILLER and MILLER

have frequently mentioned possibilities concerning

flying guns

to cuban insurrectional forces in Cuba.

MM T-3 also stated that there is a young

man working at Liberty Aviation, name unknown, who

claims to have made several trips with CHARLES

<

MILLIAM HORMEL, whom T-3 described as a "soldier of

fortune,

, gun runner, participant in Cubar revolution-

ary activities, and

Me),

MY T-3, on December 3, 1958, advised that

(ENU) MILLER

stated he was in contact with JoSE

ALEMAN, whom

MM T-3 described as a Cuban national,

owner of the

Trade Winds Hotel, Pine Tree Drive,

Miami Beach, and leader of "Cuba Rebelde"

, a Cuban

revolutionary organization in Miami devoted to

helping in the overthrow of the BATISTA government

of Cuba.

MM T-3 stated that there were two young

Cuban men who had been contacting Ilberty Aviation

SECRET 97-36524

DocId: 32310619 Page 5

---

