# docid-32336085

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90131-10053

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-307-57

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 08/17/1961

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

REINALDO PICO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

WW 54046 DocId: 32336085

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTICINAL FORM FO. 10

5010-101-01

UNITED STATES * RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

8/17/61

SAC, MIAMI (105-4031)

SUBJECT:

LATIN AMERICAN SITUATION

IS - CUBA

PaRITICAL mATTeRs

Re Miami Letter to Bureau, 6/30/61 LATIN MeneRsE d

On August 14, 1961, MM 492-S, who is exceptionally

well informed concerning former inside operations of the

Cuban Government and who is well acquainted with leading

personalities of "Prensa Libre"

published in Havana, advised as

' a newspaper formerly

follows:

SERGIC,CARBO, former owner of "Prensa Libre"

made a trip to Russia, many years ago. Upon his return' to

Cuba he wrote à series of articles very favorable to Russia.

CARBO likes a good living, even at the expense of

greater values. He received money from the BATISTA Government

and from preceding governments for supporting these regimes.

He accepted graft and this fact was well known to MM 492-s.

After FIDEL CASTRO came to power, CARBO supported

CASTRO until CASTRO withdrew financial benefits from "Prensa

Libre".

mis son, ULYSSES CARBO,

was captured and imprisoned

by CASTRO during the April 17, 1961 invasion attempt. CARBO

inspired other people to write letters accusing the United

States of planning the invasion and then abandoning the Cuban

invaders.

an

CARBO's son is still a prisoner.

He was a member

of the Cuban Prisoners Exchange Committee of ten prisoners

sent here by CASTRO to negotiate an exchange of prisoners for

tractors.

DOr tUMPOsUATION CONTAINED

HEBCID IS UNGIASSIFIED

DATE 3/10/75 Bx 56680a GATPEG 38

тe 53.

- Bureau

- Miami

GED: mgw

(4)

Dad

109-12-329-54

8 AUG 18 1961

SEV.

32 AUG 8 8 1960.

NAS.

NW 54046 DooId: 32336085

Page 2

---

