# docid-32332986

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10284

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-124

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/14/1961

9

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332986

34

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-148

STANDARD FORM NO. €A

(4-4-50)

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI (92-2940)

DATE: 4/14/61

SUBJECT:

SAC, Pittsburgh (92-226-Sub 2) JUNE

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

- To

RE: Title SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA; aka

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Pittsburgh

Symbol Number PG 622-C#

CONF. INFY.

• Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone (MUTT

installation)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Co.,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.)

2. Address where installation made.

Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block

Co., 12 McCandless Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh FBI Office, 450 Union

Trust Building, Fifth Ave., and Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization:

1/26/61

Installation:

1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

5. Previous and other installations

on the same subject (with dates and places):

No other installations

PG

4-18161

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions: M

(There is no tesur involved in this installation)

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

BEG 6 - 5942349

2 APR J8 1968

1-Bureau (RM)

a. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated

telephone?

165 1!

1-Pittsburgh

RAV: mz (2)

DocId: 32332986 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

•. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If

a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit 1s installed and concealed

in the floor space between subject's business office and

lavatory.

8.. Is the installation part of a tel-mike?. If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

10.

cohere perinormation have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relating to the North

Star Cement Block Co.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No change

Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No requests made

14. Costs of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None, (costs included in office

rental)

b.

Give total

number of other surveillances monitored at same. plant.

One misur (PG 148-S*, installed on 4/16/57)

DocId: 32332986

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

on 3/23/61, the informant advised that LA ROCCA had just

returned from Florida and had entered his office at the North

Star Cement Block Co. at approximately 2:15 PM.

Informant

advised that LA ROCCA appeared to be extremely tanned and

physically fit and indicated that he would be in the Pittsburgh

area for an undetermined period. Indications were that he

would seek some information on the automation of his plant on

or about 3/27/61.

On 3/24/61, the informant advised that SAM TEDESCO visited

North Star but did not indicate whether or not he came to

SEe LA ROCCA. TEDESCO 1s known to the Pittsburgh Office as

a burglar and expert safeman who is extremely active in

the Southern Ohio area.

His prior connection with LA ROCCA

has not fully been determined but his activities are being

fully covered by a live Informant, PG 575-c.

on 3/27/61, LA ROCCA was in his office and was advised,

according to this informant, that JOHN CONTI and ROY VEY,

who were operating the company in his

absence, have "deactivated"

AIMO PRUNER as Vice President of the "association," although

he still holds this position in what is ostensibly a cement

block organization.

LA ROCCA asked if it were true that this

"association" 1s

"cutting"

prices and was advised by CONTI and

VEY that the "association" is doing a lot more than this and

that they do not feel that North Star should become involved

in view of the position of LA roccA.

LA ROCCA did not comment

upon this.

The informant advised that it appeared that LA ROCCA

was attending to some personal affairs and would put in regularly

scheduled appearances at his office as soon as he straightens

up some details to which he did not attend while he was vacation-

ing in Florida.

morning hours of 3/27/61, and inquired whether the FBI had

been there looking for him or asking any questions relative

to the operation of several businesses to whom he is renting

at that location.

The informant stated that LA ROCCA is anxious

to sell the entire building at the aforementioned address but

will not name his price and must be called personally by anyone

desiring to buy or inspect.

He stated that this sale will not

include the carwash which adjoins 500 North Craig St.

-6-

DocId: 32332986 Page 4

---

