# docid-32301053

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10388

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-9, 10, 11

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection

act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DAVIS, GEORGE E. JR.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/18/1961

• PAGES: 50

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ACA, FIGHTING, ESCAMBRAY, REGISTRATION, INS

RECORDS, INTV, OBA, ASSOC, FINANCE, VESSEL, JOLLY

ROGER, TRANSPORT, GUNS, CUBA, FS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 MEMO, TTY, RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9 1

74 54027

10

DocTd: 32301053

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRE

Repört Form

FD-263 (Rev, 5-12-55)

CONF

NTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DAJE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

JAN 1 8 1968

8/6/60 - 1/3/61

REPORT MADE BY

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA,

aka, MIRR

(Insurrectional Movement of

Revolutionary

Recdve Ly)OBJECTION TO

SYNOPSIS:

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

MENENUMUNGLASSIFIED

EXCEP

560WN

GED

TYPED BY

jlt

S=A

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. MKA

REFERENCES:

11/20/60.

REQUIREOD

1 MAY 1-41964

ANS

BY..

LEADS

WASHINGTON FIELD:

54e deit

AT WASHINGTON, D. C

5104/85 Seedep

Grassed

# 23870

Will check with Registration Section, United

States Department of Justice,

for information concerning

alleged registration of instant organization by DI. ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA,

0-17= miAmi

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

9

Bureau

(RM)

Miami (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW NEGE

197-4474-10

NACT - 25

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

DVIX

Miami (RM)

Washington Field (RM)

Pr New

York

Mea, X° 75- 105-2855)

RM) (Info)

0ve 27 2A4 19 1961

NEGA

CLAINVOR

+(1 =-105-2856 -

BOSCH)

71-105-3037

- PANEQUE) -

1J 15 22 2

Copy-to: CI

/Sander

Stifo

DECLASSIFIED BY 566854

ONI/OSI/G2

by routing ship for info

ON 2-18-98.

Date 2

by WAIN/St

FEB 14

99811V

SECRETI

'ROPERTY OF

- This report is loaned to wow.by the EiT

100. 4474

INSALE

CON

CONTAL

*...

NH 54027

DocId: 32301053

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECÉD

MM 105-2855

CANERENTAI

Translations of material set forth in this

report were done by ELEANORE M. SCHOENBERGER, Translator,

Miami Office.

IDENTITY

- INFORMANTS -

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL

INFORMATION

134-307 Sub A

116

/MM T-1 is

MM 726-S

MM T-2 is

ALEX RORKE, NBC

Correspondent,

30 Rockefeller Plaza,

New York City, who

states he 1s a former

clerk of the New York Office,

and is known to Agents of that

Office.

Instant Report, Page

MM T-3

is

MM 369-S

639

134-211 Sub

A

Careful consideration has been given to

each source concealed in this report and "T"' symbols

were utilized only in those instances where identities

must be concealed.

9

80(4)

C*

- COVER, PAGE -

CONFIXENTIAL

SECRE

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 3

---

## Page 4

+FD-204 (Rov, 3-3-591

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONUATIAL

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

1 - U. S. Customs,

Miami (RM)

GEORGE.E. DAVIS, JR.

JAN 1 8 1961

105-2855

Office: Miami, Florida

Bureau File #:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

Character:

Synopsis:

ВпрА. 038440

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; REGISTRATION ACT -

CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS

CONTAINZO

ASSIFIEO

SHOWN

4.7

t*

XC

Newspaper publicity, 8/60, Miami, reflected DI. ORLANDO

BOSCH AVILA, Cuban medical doctor, had been named a

delegate in Miami of the MIRR, which allegedly has men

fighting against FIDEL CASTRO

in the Escambray Mountains

of Cuba.

VICTOR PANEQUE, aka, Captain DIEGO, now in

Miami, named military coordinator; SINESIO WALSH,

Commander in Chief in Cuba,'was reportedly captured and

executed by CASTRO regime recently.

QUINO MEMBRIBE is

reported to be one of the principal leaders of MIRR now

in Cuba. [In November, 1960, an informant reported plans

of BOSCH and PANEQUE to send an expedition to Cuba

for the purpose of taking equipment

means of a boat, the "Jolly Roger"

Miami on or about 11/25/60. BOSCH reportedly executed

registration forms in Miami relative to Foreign Agents

Registration Act. In 1/61, BOSCH voluntarily furnished

information to effect he joined July 26 Revolutionary

Movement in 1957, and became chief of this movement in

Las Villas Province shortly after BATISTA regime collapsed.

Within a short time, he realized CASTRO government

was rapidly becoming a Communist government and he

DUBJANGCL

OADR 9/10/85

[u]

Classified

Declassify

SONFIENTAL

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed_outside_your_aaenc.y...

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-2855

HINY

HANNAL

against the BATISTA government. Subject formerly joined

FIDEL CASTRO on November 22, 1957, received a commission

as Major in the Rebel forces, and was named.

Section Chief of the 26th of July forces in Las Villas

Province.

On October 2, 1958, he was appointed acting

Chief of Matanzas, Pinar del Rio, and Havana Provinces

by FIDEL CASTRO.

On January 1, 1959,

he was connissioned a Major

in the regular Cuban Army and

named Chief of Rural Police

until dissolved

in April, 1959. From April until July,

1959, he attended officers training school at Bahia

Hondo, Pinar del Rio.

In July, 1959, he was appointed

Chief of Public Order, G-3 of the Cuban Army, and served

as such until his departure from Cuba September 1, 1960.

On November 9, 1959, he was named government intervener

of La Compania Inter-Americana de Transportes (Inter-

American Transport Company), until September 1, 1960, when

the company was incorporated into an organization known as

Talleres Nacional, which is the government agency respon-

sible for all motorized equipment in the Republic.. He

was named General Administrator of Talleres Nacional by

FIDEL CASTRO, and certified as such on August 29, 1960.

[c

Reports Concerning Plans of Expedition

On November 1, 1960, MM I-1, who is well acquainted

with BOSCH and some members of his group, advised that

DI. ORLANDO BOSCH had possession of a forty-foot luxury

yacht, described as the "Trudy Lou" (subsequently identified

by MM I-1 as the "Jolly Roger"), bearing registration

number FL-6705, then docked at Just Island, Miami River,

Miami. This boat was in the process of being equipped

with two short-wave radios.

The boat, according to MM T-1,

was scheduled to make a clandestine trip to Cuba for

the

purpose of taking equipment to the MIRR in the Escambray

Mountains of Cuba.

-8-

CONFIERTAC

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-2855

CONASENTIAL

On. November 2, 1960, MM I-1 said the equipment

would include a two-way

portable radio, and he suspected

that small arms would also be transported.

About four

men were scheduled to make trips on this boat.

It was

scheduled

to depart in the immediate future upon completion

of radio installation.

MM T-1 received the information

indicating that VICTOR PANEQUE would be in command of the

boat. MM I-1 also learned that BOSCH had acquired a

radio transmitter and receiver which operate on 4895

kilocycles at his residence, 4138 Southwest 18th Terrace.

On November 3, 1960, MM T-1 learned that approxi-

mately ten persons planned to make a trip aboard the above

described vessel on November 3 to deliver equipment to the

MIRR in the Escambray Mountains.

The boat was scheduled

to take some arms which were believed to have been acquired

by PANEQUE on

recent trip to the northempart of the

United States.

On November 19, 1960, MM T-2,

who is well

acquainted with BOSCH and some members of his organization,

advised that 15 Cubans were scheduled to depart on board

a 45-foot boat having two Chrysler engines, under the

command of VICTOR PANEQUE, within 48 hours, exact time of

departure being unknown.

This expedition was being spon-

sored by the MIRR under the civilian leadership of ORLANDO

BOSCH.

The boat was scheduled to transport a supply of

weapons, consisting of garands, carbines, revolvers and

one. 20 millimeter cannon and some short wave radio equip-

, ment.

The purpose of the expedition was to set up a post

in the interior of Cuba in order to organize and establish

a provisional government to operate a short wave radio

station, and to request United States aid following

establishment of the base. MM T-2 expressed great

confidence in the aims and purposes of BOSCH and PANEQUE,

both of whom he believed to be sincerely anti-communist

and anti-CASTRO. MM I-2 said that he had heard a rumor

CONT

NTIAL

CAD

-9 -

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 105-2855

USCS

REVIEWED BY EDMUFK TASK FORCE

ON, 7/23/97 DAB/RTF

IX RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CONFRENTIAC

to the effect that PANEQUE is suspected of being a CASTRO

agent.

He discounted this rumor, explaining that PANEQUE

had taken a trip to Washington, D. C. and New York with

LUIS CONTE AGUERO,

but had later split with CONTE AGUERO

after CONTE AGUERO had attempted to deceive PANEQUE, whereupon

CONTE AGUERO started a rumor that, PANEQUE is a CASTRO

agent, as a means of retaliation against him. MMI-2

said that in his opinion PANEQUE is one of the most

solid, substantial and reliable Cubans he has ever met.

The Miami offices of the United States Customs

Service and United States Border Patrol were notified

concerning above plans, and on September 20, 1960, the

United States Border Patrol, Miami, advised

that it had just

stopped the "Jolly Roger"

, as it was in the process of

departing Miami.

Eight individuals, including two women,

were on board,

all of whom claimed they were on a fishing

trip. There was fishing gear on board.

Inspection of

the boat by U. S. Border Patrol and U. S. Customs disclosed

only one .45 caliber revolver, but no other weapons or

ammunition nor any other radio equipment except the ship-to-

shore boat radio. The following individuals were on board:

VICTOR MANUEL PANEQUE Y BATISTA

Captain AUGUSTIN TORRES, Skipper of the boat

DANIEL. WORENO

PEDRO MANUEL VERANDA

LUIS LICOR SOSA

MORINA/SANCHEZ, SOSA

All of the above are Cubans.

Also on boardnf.Y.mfs

were AMOS

SHA%

ATKINS and his wife, JOAN, both U. S. citizens.

@wat Kins

COMFIZENTIAC

Elise

- 10 .

HIH

54027 DooId:32301053 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 105-2855

MANT ENTIAL

"Jolly Ragze

The owner of the boat was allegedly ARTHUR J. AUGUST, who

was not on board. It was noted that the boat had four

extra 150-gallon fuel tanks which were not hooked up

into the boat's system.

There were no substantial food

supplies on board.

The U. S. Border Patrol advised that

as there was no evidence of any Federal violation, the

boat was released, and it returned up the Miami River

later in the same

afternoon.

Ton Morember 21, 1960, MM advia nd the

trip of the "Jolly Roger" on November 20, 1960, had been

a test trip for the purpose of determining what, if any,

action would be taken upon departure of the boat. He

said there

was no intention to leave Miami on that day.

On November 25, 1960, MM T-1 advised that the

"Jolly Roger" had departed Miami and that its present

whereabouts

was unknown.d

•Xus.

On December 29, 1960, MM T-3 reported that he

had received information

from Cuban exiles acquainted

with Captain DIEGO that DIEGO was just then in the

process of returning to Miami from a trip to Cuba

following which he had encountered boat trouble in the

Bahamas while en route back to Miami

UISA:

MM T-3 said that FRANK FIORINI, an American

adventurer who was deprived of his United States

citizenship as a result of his participation in the FIDEL

CASTRO regime shortly after January 1, 1959, but who

subsequently defected, is attempting to negotiate an agreement

with Captain DIEGO's group to obtain transportation of some offe

•11-

CONFIENTIAL

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 105-2855

CONTENTAC

FIORINI's men from Miami to Cuba where FIORINI's men

expect to operate in an area staked out for themselves.

FIORINI told MM T-3 that DIEGO had succeeded in taking

some men and equipment into Cuba

several weeks previously.

He claimed that moving picture photographs and still

pictures of the entire operation have been

made by an

American known to FIORINI only as ALEX.

D., Registration

On December 30, 1960, MI. ALEXANDER NEWBERGER, asso-

ciated with the law firm of Mr. DAVID WALTERS, Ainsley

Building, Miami, advised that about lk months previously

Dr. ORLANDO BOSCH had come to his office for advice as to

whether or not he should become registered under the

Foreign Agents' Registration Act on behalf of an organi-

zation represented by him. Mr. NEWBERGER said that he

assisted DI. BOSCH in executing the appropriate registra

tion forms in his office, and upon completion of same,

gave the registration form enclosed in an envelope

addressed to the United States Department of Justice,

Washington, D. C., with the expectation that this form

would be promptly mailed to Washington, D. C.

Mr. NEWBERGER said that he was impressed by the

sincerity of Dr. BOSCH, who appeared to be a professional

man and who desired to abide by the laws of the United

States.

E. Inmigration and Naturalization Service Records

On November 2, 1960, Mr.

EMMETT PHILLIPS,

Imigration and Naturalization Service (INS), Miami,

made available for examination the INS file All 881 810,

on ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, medical doctor.

This confirmed

- 12 -

COME KENTIAL

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CLASSIEIED

AND

EXTENDED

REASON FON

FCIM.

peter detona stones,

REC- 95

991974-

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Simpson

9

0A413

MOVIKIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

NEUTRALITY KATTERS

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 10-6-97

APPR

AND T

AD'*

1/34

There is enclosed one copy of the report of

*Special Agent George E. Davis, Jr., dated January 18, 1961,

at Haml, florlda, concerning captioned organization.

Furnished re fable Information a the past, tag hod that

Victor Paneque, also known as Captain Diega, who 18 the

military delegate of the loviniento Insurrecional de

by "the Americans," sot further identified. on Ianuary 16,

3961, this same informant learned iron Dx. Orlando Bosch

*tila, the Miant cirtlian delegato l the Moviniento

SE:*

nsurrecional de Recuperacion Revoluslonaria,, that the

SII

vessel "Jolly Roger" was going to transport sone guas

CIV

fron Green Cay, Bahana Islands, to Hiaul, and these gungAl!

vould subsequently be taken by a group by plane from lian.

PUR

FFIC

MAILED

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingrain -

Gandy

citizens who had been located on isolated property, poxthwest

of pompano Beach, Florida. Those sen were Robert Edward

Rostallon, James Peter -Henri and August Joseph Andrew

Bachot, Jr.,

who stated they belonged to an unnaned organi-

zation of 12 to 13 Anericans under the leadership of Frank

Sturgis and that their camp was a staging area which had

been used by a group prior to 1ts departure on an unknovo

date for Cube.

These three individuals vere observed to be

in possession of one revolver.

They alleged that Sturgis

had stated their presence in Cuba would encourage Cubans

to defect against Castro, and that if the revolution vas

successful against Castro, they ould be rewarded with

political positions or businesses under the new Cuban regine.

- MiamDEO MIFIED 5668

151=97.

VI SEE NOTE ON VELLOW, PAGE THREE

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

XiT

CONF

DENTIAL

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SE

ET

CONFDENTIAC

Mons

Assistant Attorney General

J. Walter Yeagley

Frank Sturgis, mentioned above, is identical

with Frank Anthony Sturgis, also known as Frank Fiorini,

who is mentioned in the enclosed report as having entered

into negotiations with Captain Diego to obtain transportation

of his men from Miami to Cuba where Fiorini's men would

stake out an area of operations for themselves. Sturgis

is the subject of my letter to you dated December 16, 1960,

at which time you were requested to advise whether the

activities of Sturgis developed to date indicated a possible

violation of neutrality statutes within the investigative

jurisdiction of the FBI warranting additional investigation.

On January 19, 1961, an informant, who has

furnished reliable information in the past, reported he

had visited the camp maintained by Sturgis near Pompano Beach,

Florida,

and had learned that Captain Diego has a group

leaving

"this weekend" for Cuba and was to take along

several of Sturgis men as a separate unit under the

leadership of one Max Vila, Jr.

This same informant

reported that he had learned that Bosch, Diego and Sturgis

were on January 19, 1961, reportedly in

Tampa, Florida,

allegedly to obtain possession of a boat which had been

undergoing repairs.

the identity of the boat involved

Additional details of this trip and

are not known.

The United States Customs Service and the United

States Border Patrol have been furnished all pertinent

developments in this matter in view of the possibility of

additional

gunrunning activities on the part of the persons

involved with the captioned organization.

A representative of the Central Intelligence Agency

petro

(CIA) in Miami has advised our Miami Office that although

per

CIA has no operational interest in Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila

and his organization at the present time, some consideration

is being afforded this matter by CIA and

it is possible that

CIA may acquire an operational interest in this organization

at sometime in the near future.

cị)

CIA INTORE

I QUASSIFIED

AND UPGRADEO HER THEIR

1212719117145

9803 rodige 9244, 326325/42

CONFID

- 2.

SECR

CONTO LENITAL

NW 54027 DooId: 32301053

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SE

CHET

FEDERAL BUREAL OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COM MUNICATIONS SECTION

JAN 19 1991

Tolson

Mohr

My

Parsona.

Mr.

Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Malone

Mr. MeGuire

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Uz. Ingram

Miss Gandy

21895 SO MOCIONT (JFK

Classified by Zul

Declassify on: OAPR 9

10/85

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUME DATAR

LHG ENT

1-12-61

7-44

PM EST RHR

10

TRECTOR, FBI, AND SAC, TAMPA

FROM

SAC, MIAMI

1105-2855/

4P

11-1-9700

LAVEMENTO INSUBRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARLA, AKA

PAREN MIRR,

INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT OF REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY

PAREN, IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBA, NM.

REREP SA GEORGE

E. DAVIS, JR., JANUARY EIGHTEEN, LAST•

FOR INFO BUREAU,

INFO DEVELOPED REFERENCED REP REFLECTS DR. ORLANDO/BOSCH,

FLA

MIAMI CIVILIAN DELEGATE OF MIRR, VOLUNTARILY ADMITTED ON

DECEMBER NINETEEN AND JANUARY THREE, LAST, THAT MIRR HAD

ALREADY SENT THREE SEPARATE ANTI CASTRO MISSIONS TO CUBA,

TUO BEING ABOARD THE QUOTEOLLY ROGER UNQUOTE, NOVEMBER

AND DECEMBER, LAST.

BOSCH EXPRESSED DESIRE TO COOPERATE

WITH U. S. GOVERNWENTE ACT

VENST CASTRO REGIML •

DUD. PAGE: ONE

ADVISED

Tourass M

ON JANUARY THIRO LASTEA

STIE

DANI

оже в лАє ула

4474- 16

1-24-61

ufene. 1s JAN 26 19818

2--

J.1-

come

Rps/pu.

SLENEORLATTON CONTATICO

XEROX

REASON FOR EXT

FCIM, II, 1-2

D H7 34027

DocId: 32301053

JAN 27 1861

Paye 12

SECRET

SIDI

TOR

CL

SSLICAZOS

RECORDED

OPI FILED IN 2_1490_

---

## Page 13

SECRED

PAGE TWO

IM SEVEN TWO SIX DASH S ADVISED THAT VICTORY ANEQUE, AKA

CAPTALLADIEGO, WHO IS MILITARY DELEGATE OF MIRR IN MIAMI, ELA

WAS GOING TO BE PLACED IN CUBA THROUGH GUANTANAMO BAY

SOMETIME SOON BY QUOTE THE AMERICANS UNQUOTE, NOT FURTHER

IDENTIFIED, ACCORDING TO BOSCH. ON JANUARY SIXTEEN LAST,

SAME INFORMANT LEARNED FROM BOSCH THAT QUOTE JOLLY ROGER UNQUOTE

WAS GOING TO TRANSPORT SOME GUNS FROM GREEN CAY, BAHAMAS, TO

MIAMI WHERE THESE GUNS WOULD BE TAKEN BY GROUP DEPARTING MIAMI

BY PLANE FOR CUBA. TODAY, UPON BASIS INFORMATION FURNISHED BY

BROWARD COUNTY, FLAO, SHERIFF-S OFFICE, MIAMI INTERVIEWED

THREE MEN WHO IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES AS U. S. CITIZENS LOCATED

ON ISOLATED PROPERTY NORTHWEST OF POMPANO BEACH, FLA. THESE

MEN WERE ROBERT EDWARDXROSTALLON, JAMES PETERAMENRI, AND

AUGUST JOSEPH ANDREWABACHOT, JR., WHO STATED THEY BELONGED TOI

AN UNNAMED ORGANIZATION CONSISTING OF TWELVE TO THIRTEEN

AMERICANS UNDER LEADERSHIP OF FRANK STURGIS, TWO EIGHT NAUGHT

So W. SIXTIETH COURT, MIAMI, AND THAT THEIR CAMP WAS A STAGING

AREA USED BY A GROUP PRIOR TO ITS -TRANSPORTATION, DATE UNKNOWN,

BY PLANE OR BOAT, TO CUBA. THEY WERE. OBSERVED TO BE IN XU)

END PAGE TWO

ICONE

MENTAL

SECRET

NH 54027 DooId: 32301053 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE THREE

POSSESSION OF ONE WEBLEY MARK SIX REVOLVER. THEY STATED

THAT STURGIS SAID THEIR PRESENCE IN CUBA WOULD ENCOURAGE

CUBANS TO DEFECT AGAINSI CASTRO, AND THAT IF REVOLUTION SUC-

CESSFUL AGAINST CASTRO, THEY WOULD BE REWARDED WITH POLITICAL

POSITIONS OR BUSINESSES UNDER THE NEW REGIME AND BE ALLOWED

REMAIN IN CUBA. FRANK STURGIS IS IDENTICAL TO FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,

AKA FRANK FIORINI, WHO WAS MENTIONED IN REFERENCED REPORT AS HAVING

ENTERED INTO NEGOTIATIONS WITH CAPTAIN DIEGO TO OBATIN TRANSPOR-

TATION OF HIS MEN FROM MIAMI TO CUBA, WHERE FIORINI-S MEN

WOULD STAKE OUT AREA OF OPERATIONS FOR THEMSELVES. [ALSO

TODAY, MM THREE SIX NINE DASH S REPORTED HE VISITED FIORINI-S

CAMP NEAR POMPANO BEACH YESTERDAY AND LEARNED THAT CAPTAIN

DIEGO HAS GROUP LEAVING THIS WEEKEND FOR CUBA AND WILL TAKE ALONG

FOUR OR FIVE OF FIORINI-S MEN AS SEPARATE UNIT UNDER LEADERSHIP

OF MAX VILA, JR. SAME INFORMANT ALSO LEARNED THAT TODAY BOSCH,

DIEGO AND FIORINI ARE REPORTEDLY IN TAMPA, FLA., TO APPARENTLY

OBTAIN POSSESSION OF A BOAT WHICH HAS BEEN UNDERGOING REPAIRS.

IDENTETY OF BOAT AND FURTHEN DETAILS NES ANOWN JAME E

HAS BEEN

IN LIAISON WITH CIA LOCALLY CONCERNING. DEVELOPMENTS INSTANT] &*

END PAGE THREE

CIA INFOLLAST SET BR. CONT. ON

PE-41) CLASSIFIED PER8125/864K

490-16449-1571

SPUBJA/Ge

-811,326-1126/90

'Aeso 12/27147

De.

q863rddlad 1 211326-325192

LASTER DEZLASSIFIED

CONE SONIAT

SECRET

NW 54027 DooId:32301053 Page 14

---

