# docid-32363454

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

104-10123-10216

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

:

TERMINATIONAL SECURITY OATH -- JAMES P. O'CONNELL.

DATE

06/15/1965

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : CONTROL SYSTEM

WITHHELD

WITHHELD

O'CONNELL

TERMINATED OATH

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

04/07/94

COMMENTS

: JERAA

: 1994.04.07.15:24:07:750005

[R]

_ ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10123-10216

14 53294

DocId: 32363454

Page 1

---

## Page 2

BEGRET

OXCART

TER NATIONAL SUCRECY CATS - XXXXXX CLEARANCE

IN THE BYEMAN SECURITY AND CONTROL SYSTOM

I,:

James P. O'Connell

duties within the BYPMAN Seeurity and Control System, I have been the

recipient of information and intelligence nich concerns the present and

future security of the United States of Amertea. I am aware that then,

unauthorized disclosure of such information is punishable under the

Espionage Laws - Title 18, U. S. Code, Sections 792 - 797 and tie Inter-

nal Security Aet of 1950, Seetion 19, P. Lo 831, (8lst Congrest. Accora-

ingly, I solemaly swear without mental reservation or purpose of evesion,

and in the absence of duress, as follows!

1. I will never divulge, publish, of reveal by uriting, word

conduct, or othervise, my information relating to aXMAN active

ties, without the express written consent of the EXIMAN Officer or

his authorized representative.

I do not have any documents or materials in my possession,

classified or unclassified, which are the property of or in custodia?

responsibility of, or relating to BYEMAN.

3. I have been advised that in the event I am called upon by

the properly constituted authorities to testily or provide taforma

tion which I am pleaged hereby not to disclose, I will notify the

BYEMAN Officer of the command from which I received my akk OXCART

ExX clearance. I vill also advise said authorities of my secrecy

connitments to the United States Government and vill request that

my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do

80°

DATE

0.0' Coupeel

Conne

15 June. 1965

SEGRET

HW 57291

---

