# docid-32301227

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10062

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-40, 41

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

WILKISON, ROBERT J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/17/1958

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

JRO, BKG, RES, B/F INT, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

V9.1

DocId: 32301227

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SU 94-252

INFORMANTS

T-I is JACK BROOKS, with aliases JACK BROOKSTEIN,

JACOB BROOKSTEIN, whose identity is concealed at his request

due to his close

association with the gambling industry.

T-2 is ROBERT CANNON, Manager, Tropicana Hotel,

Las Vegas, Nevada, whose identity is concealed at his

request due to his close association with the gambling

industry.

T-3 is SU 370- C, whose identity is known to

the Bureau, contacted by SA BRYON. C. WHEELER.

T-4 is DONALD

BORAX, Chief Security Officer,

Desert Inn Hotel, Las vegas,

Nevada, whose identity is

concealed at his

request due to his

close association with

ROSELLI and the gambling industry.

T-5 is WILLIAM GALLAGHER, Member, State of

Nevada Gaming Control Board, Las Vegas, Nevada, whose

identity is concealed at his request.

T-6 is HOWARD CAPPS, Professional Golfer in Charge,

Desert Inn Hotel Country Club,

Las Vegas, who requested his

identity be concealed due to his close association with ROSELLI

and the gambling industry.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 12 -

DocId: 32301227

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Att of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SU 94-252

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

SU 370-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau,

will be utilized concerning the investigation of ROSELLI

at the Desert Inn Hotel.

It is believed this informant

is in an excellent

position to furnish pertinent information

concerning ROSELLI's activities

at the Desert Inn Hotel.

Mr. ROBERT CANNON, Manager, 'Tropicana Hotel,

has furnished reliable information in the past concerning

ROSELLI.

CANNON has also furnished reliable information

concerning other investigations at the Tropicana Hotel.

CANNON is in an excellent position to furnish pertinent

information concerning ROSELLI's connections with MONTE

PROSER and the Tropicana Hotel. CANNON is well acquainted

with ROSELLI.

Contact will be maintained with CANNON

concerning the activities of ROSELLI.

JACK BROOKS, who occupies the position of Doorman

at Tropicana Hotel, is well acquainted with ROSELLI and has

furnished reliable information in the past concerning

ROSELLI's activities.

BROOKS is in a good position to

furnish pertinent information concerning ROSELLI, since

BROOKS has contact with many persons who are acquainted with

ROSELLI.

HOWARD CAPPS, Professional Golfer in Charge oi

Desert Inn Hotel Country Club, Las Vegas, of which ROSELLI

is a member,

'has been contacted in the past concerning

ROSELLI.

CAPPS is well acquainted with ROSELLI and is in an

excellent position to report information concerning ROSELLI's

activities at the Desert Inn Hotel and Desert Inn Hotel Country

Club. Contact will be maintained with CAPPS.

DONALD BORAX, Chief Security Officer, Desert

Inn Hotel, Las Vegas, is well acquainted with ROSELLI and

is in an excellent position to report information concerning

ROSELLI's activities at Desert Inn Hotel. Contact will be

maintained with BORAX.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

- 13 -

DocId: 32301227 Page 3

---

