# docid-32295552

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10328

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-80291-IST NR 53

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/07/1960

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1C; 4

Redact

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32295552

Page 1

---

## Page 2

arjer. 12-13--9!

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

SECRET Date:

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

12/7/60

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERRIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP

FOERE SHONE OOHERWISE.

TO

FROM

GUIDO D'ALESSANDRO

IS - DR

(Bufile 105-86130)

(MM file 105-2489)

(00: NEWARK)

006301-30-95

Classified

by SPEMACE

Declassily on:

MAX GARCIA, aka

IS - DR; RA - DR

(Bufile 97-4345)

(MM file 97-387)

(00: TAMPA)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GaL

DECLASSIFY CN: 25X 0J(6)

(JFK) 4/30/98

Re Miami airtel, 11/17/60.

On 12/5/60, PCI EDWARD PIATKOWSKI advised CARCIA told

him during mid-afternoon he was leaving for Tampa, Fla., to pick

- Bureau (RM)

- Tampa (Info) (RM)

2

- Newark (Info) (RM)

- New York (Info) (RM)

1

- Cleveland (Info) (BARTONE) (RM)

8 - Miami

{2cc

105-2489-D' ALESSANDRO;

2cc

97-387-GARCIA;

1cc

87-8756-BROWDER;

1cc

icc

105-2006-BARTONE

Ice

L05-1924-FONDEURAE 0>- 80271-

134-510-PIATKOWSKI)

NOT RECORDED

174 DES 15 1960

SECRET

Sent

_M Per

RBK: mfm

(21)

Foul C 211960

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45712 DocId: 32295552

Page 2

ORIGINAT, FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 105-2489

MM 97- 387

SECRET

up some "stuff" and then going to NYC, adding, "It's

all set.

I'm kidnaping D'ALESSANDRO." When PIATKOWSKI

York and asked PIATKOWSKI to see if he

could get the "contact number" In NYC as he had lost it,

PIAIKOWSKI said GARCIA apparently falsely assumed

had

been given a "contact number" in NYC by FONDEUR. S

Later that evening PIATKOWSKI said GARCIA had

not yet left Miami but voiced intention to do so that

nignt.

On 12/6/60 PIATKOWSKI said GARCIA still in Miami,

but still Indicating intent to leave for NiC.

PLATKOWSKY.

said he inquired of FRANCISCO MALDONADO IGLESIAS *persoa

who originally put him in contact with FONDEUFS)about a

' In NYC and MALDONADO said he did not know

name or number of contact, but contact supposed to be at

Hotel Rossof

OTHER 1C

at consulate, and

although he did not plan to do so until (I2/211760.

On 12/6/60, U. S. Customs Agent EDWARD FICKIE

advised he had talked with GARCIA and was considering

use of GARCIA as informant. He said GARCIA admitted being

USCS

REVIEWED BY FA/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

7.23-97dat

2

-

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET

NW 45712 DocId: 32295552 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-2489

MM 97 - 387

SECRET

In Miami to set up sale of arms for DOMINICK BARTONE,

Cleveland, Ohio, who was previously convicted in Customs

case in matter involving illegal shipment of arms to DR.

GARCIA vOLuntariLy told FIKIE he had beenxto DR at

expense of DR wieL FONDEUR and while there was offered

$100,000.00 to deliver D'ALESSANDRO to DR. He said idea

was discussed that D'ALESSANDRO might be lured to DR

by getting him to lead an expedition against DR which

would be trapped by DR in which event reward might go as

high as $150,000.00, GARCIA said he did not like idea

and had backed out of it but volunteered to do anything

he could to help U. S. When asked by FICKIE if he could

get back "In" with persons behind plan, GARCIA indicated

he probably could.

FICKIE believed GARCIA intended to

get back "in" through FONDEUR.

It would appear that since GARCIA has discussed

this matter with FICKIE he is not likely to

engage in any

kidnaping plot of D'ALESSANDRO, but is possibly now talk-

ing as he is intaffort to regain the confidence of

Dominicans

In effort to assist FICKIE. FICKIE indicated

he felt it would interfere with his operation if CARCIA

is interviewed by FbI.

He indicated he hoped that through

GARCIA he could uncover the operations of BARTONE and

BARTONE's associate In Miami, EDWARD BROWDER, who has been

previously Involved in matters of interest to Customs.

FICKIE said he would keep Miani advised of any information

concerning matter of D'ALESSANDRO.

In view of above, Miami does not contemplate

Interview of GARCIA at this tine, and will maintain

contact with PIATKOWSKI in this matter.

-

3

-

SECRET

NW 45712 DocId: 32295552

Page 4

---

