# docid-32291493

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10269

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-4355-100

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 45840 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

REPPUCCI, CHARLES A.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/30/1970

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, VENDITUOLI, FRANK

ANTHONY, WHEREABOUTS, LCN, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45840

DocId: 32291493 Page 1

---

## Page 2

BS 166-845

BOSTON

1.

AT KENNEBUNK OR KENNEBUNKPORT, MAINE.

Will

onduct inquiries there to determine if there is anyon

named VENDITUOLI residing or teaching school there.

If located, will conduct appropriate investigation to locate

and apprehend subject.

2. ' N111 exhibit IO photos of subjects VENDITUOLI and

MANOCCHIO to local and State authorities for any information

they may have concerning subjects being in this area.

Will conduct appropriate investigation to locate and

apprehend subjects.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Regular contacts were made with CIs, PCIs, aro

C-TEs of the Boston Office concerning subjects MANOCCHIO •

and VENDITUOLI with negative results.

BS 1159-C-TE was regularly contacted by

SA DENNIS M.

CONDON, and informant, to date, has not been

able to furnish an exact location fer subject MANOCCHIO,

except he is in the Brooklyn, N. X., Jared.

:

On 10/8/70, the New Haven Division advised logical

informants and sources in the New Haven Division have been

alerted concerning the subjects.

In the event any positive

information is received from these sources, the Boston Office

will be immediately advised.

on 10/16/70, the New York Office furnished the

following information to the Bureau and Boston:

COVER PAGE

HH

45840

DocId:32291493 Page 2

---

## Page 3

C

BS 166-815

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont.)

on 10/15-16/70, the general activities and

associaies.of NICHOLAS I. BIANCO were discussed with

Departmental Attorney DENNIS DILION, Organized Crime Unit,

"Capo" in the JOE COLUMBO

Eastern District of New YoTtfamily" of

N. Y.

BIANCO is a

Brooklyn La Cosa Nostra (ICN) •

the general immunity provisions of the

DILLON stated that it is his opinion

be subpoenaed before a rGJ and questioned about

land his knowledge of

for

the rollowing reasons:

MANOCCHIO is under FiJ indictment at Boston, Mass.,

for violation of ITAR-GAMBLING, and 1s presently in fugitive

status.

2.

Reliable informants of the FBI in Providence, R. I.

MANOCCHIO are close friends and have mutual contacts in the

England. Additionally, MANOCCHIO has reportedly iled

to New York, particularly, the Brooklyn area.

BIANCO, when Interviewed by Bureau Agents of the

NYO, on 10/8/69, at his residence, 483 Ocean Parkway, .

Brooklyn, N. Y., denied knowing MANOCCHIO. BIANCO was shown

a photograph of MANOCCHIO during the interview.

Additionally;

BIANCO refused to be interviewed by Bufgents on 12/30/69, and

his conduct subsequently has been one of hostility towards the

no 011t

FBI and its Agents, which conduct has precluded interview of

BIANCO

re MANOCCHIO.

It ls seen as necessary to

" FOJ'in

i safe on the marted

and question

im ca

as set forth above. Jfl

and FBI Investigation shows they do know

each other, DILLON will seek & perjury indictment; if|

refused.

to have

to answer questions before the PG, DILLON will seeK

receive general immunity; it ammunity granted,

and

continues to refuse

to talk, DILLOit will seeis to

have

held In contenpo.

JFK Law 10(a) 2

C

COVER PAGE

45840

DocId: 32291493

Page 3

---

## Page 4

BS 166-845

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont.)

On 10/21, 23/70, Capt. JAMES MULLEN, Detective

Division.

advised he checked all

• Checked at sta sandie gost tuate for I.,

his standur

varlous people who were rounded up together and was unable

to find any photos of MANOCCHIO and BIANCO being together.

He checked his intelligence files and was unable to locate

any record or notation that MANOCCHIO Or BIANCO were ever

seen together.

ne stated BlANCo leit Providence, R. I.:

for New York several years ago and, for that reason, they

do not have any information showing these two people together.

On: 10/21, 23/70, Capt. VINCENT O'CONNELL, Detective

Division, Providence, R. I. PD, advised he is checking his

Intelligence reports and checking with his detectives to

determine if they can put MANOCCHIO and BIANCO together.

This informaion when received, will be immediately

forwarded to the NYo..

Review of NANOCCHIO and BIANCO files at Boston

failed

to show them together.

on 10/23/70, BS 1131-PC, advised SA MARTIN P. CONLEY

that he hao received information from a relative of subject

VENDITUOLI,

that VendITUOLI may be hiding out with a son

who is a teacher in the Kennebunk or Kennebunkport, Me., area.

Intormant said it was reported that subject VENDITUOLI uses

this area as a base of operation.

The name of VENDITUOLI's son 18' not knain but

allegedly he is a teacher there. Informant also said VENDITUOLI

has a stepmother living in Maine and he may be close to her.

Subject's stepmother's name is presumably VENDITUOLI.

The above information was telephonically furnished

the Agents covering the Maine area.

For the intormation of the Bureau, this is a

Fugitive investigative report and does not include any prosecutive

action. .All prosecutive action against subjects has beer

reported to the Bureau in a prosecutive type report.

For the

above reason, no dissemination to USAs or Departmental Attorney

buing made.

D*

COVER PAGE

HH 45840 DocId:32291493 Page 4

---

