# docid-32361850

## Page 1

Inat in case

Date: 11/07/99

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

CIA

104-10119-10419

JFK

80T01357A

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

JERRY G. BROWN

TITLE

ID:

REECORD SHEET WITH MEMO: HEMMING: GERALI

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

PATRICK.

04/08/77

3

:

:

HEMMING,

GERALD

DOCUMENT TYPE

:

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS:

PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

08/06/97

JFK43: F4

1997.08.06.17:18:45:966102:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53294

DooId: 32361850

Page

1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

TERNAL

•E ONLY

COI

ENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

HEMMING, Gerald Patrick

FROM:

EXTENSION

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

4400

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

C/ SAG

8 aul /230

Reardon

NO

DATE

8 April 1977

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Drow a line across column after each comment.)

This was prompted by

-sayarate discussion

wit

water

2.

3.

4.

5:

7.

8.

9.

10.

11.

DOISAG

Нинт.

tul77

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USE PTIONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

HN 53294

---

## Page 3

8 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM

: Jerry G. Brown

SUBJECT

: HEMMING,

Gerald Patrick

OS#429 229

AFIR

1. Reference is made to the attachment which is a

copy of a memorandum contained in Subject file dated

7 November 1960 from

Chief/Contact Division/00 to Chief/

Personnel Security Division/Office of Security.captioned

Ex-US Marine who served in Cuban

, a copy of which was

sent to WH Division and CI Staff.

It is apparent that

the HENNING referred to therein

is identical with Gerald

Patrick HEMMING.

2.

. Of pertinence for the porposes of instant memo-

randum is that information contained in paragraphs four

and five of the reference and related by HEMMING voluntarily

to the Contact Division/Los Angeles Office between 11 and

21 October 1960, to wit:

"Henning returned to California in October

1958.... He left for Cuba by air via Miami on

or about 18 February 1959

arriving in Havana

on 19 February 1959."

"He claimed to have contacted officials

in the Cuban Consul's office in Los Angeles

prior to his departure.

3. In substance relative to the above, the HEMMING

file reflects that he served in the U. S. Marine Corps from

19 April 1954 to 17 October 1958. (The 201 file concerning

HEMMING reflects that he served in Japan with a U. S. Marine

Air Wing.) He then returned to the Los Angeles area for

discharge and then left for Cuba circa 18 February 1959 and

joined Castro's forces.

E2 IMPDET

CL BY 007472

Page 3-

---

## Page 4

SECHE

4. The pertinence of the foregoing is that Lee Harvey

OSWALD served with a U. S. Marine Air Wing in Japan, and

when OSWALD returned to

the United States, he was assigned

to santa Anna, Calitornia (Los Angeles area).

Extensive

testimony contained in the Warren Commission hearings by

OSWALD's fellow Marines at Santa

Anna contain the theme

that OSWALD was interested in going to Cuba to join Castro

(upon his discharge) in early 1959

and that in early 1959

OSWALD allegedly made some contact with the Cuban Consul's

Office in Los Angeles.

5. The above as

well as the Office of Security file

concerning HEMMING which is replete with information

possibly linking HEMMING and his cohorts to OSWALD was

brought to the attention of Mr. John Leader ranc

Mr. Scott

BrecKinridge), Inspector General, on 6 April 1977.

Mr. Leader

advised he would pursue the matter.

Sis dien

Security Analysis

Group

Attachment

cc: IG/ John Leader

screece

33294

Do01d:32361850

Page 4

---

