# docid-32291564

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10207-10340

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 45-10854-20

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/01/1968

PAGES: 9

• SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, ACA, ASSOC, SUSP, BOMBING, POLISH VESSEL "POLANICA

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

02/25/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32291564

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE: * 11-14-2017

assination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

MM

(4501175)

PAGE FIVE

Fittit

"..;

MEADOWS SUGGESTED THAT ONE OF THE REASONS FOR WAITING UNTIL.

WEDNESDAY FOR PRESENTATION OF THIS MATTER TO GRAND JURY WOULD

BE TO AFFORD: MORALES AN OPPORTUNITY TO RECORD ADDITIONAL

INCRIMINATING CONVERSATIONS WITH BOSCH AND OTHER CO-CONSPIRATORS

BETWEEN NOW AND THE TIME OF THE GRAND JURY HEARING.

IN ADDITION, TESTIMONY BEFORE THE GRAND JURY WOULD BE TAKEN

FROM LOURDES CUESTA

WHO OVERHEARD A CONVERSATION IN A RESTUARANT

IN WHICH BOSCH ADMITTED BEING INVOLVED IN THE SHELLING OF INSTANT

VESSEL, AND THAT HIS GROUP WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR A SHIP BOMBING

IN SAN JUAN, P.R. IT IS NOTED THAI THE SPANISH FREIGHTER. QUOTE:

CROMOTO UNQUOTE HAD BEEN BOMBED AT P• R: SEVERAL DAYS PRIOR TO THIS

CONVERSATION. (P)

TESTIMONY WILL ALSO BE TAKEN FROM BUAGENTS. CONCERNING SUR-

VEILLANCES ON: CO-CONSPIRATORS, AS WELL AS TESTIMONY CONCERNING

THE OBTAINING OF PHYSICAL EVIDENCE SUCH AS THE BOMB WHICH HAD BEEN

ATTACHED TO THE QUOTE LANCASTRIAN PRINCE UNQUOTE, AND THE RECOILESS.

RIFLE AND OTHER EVIDENCE OBTAINED IN INSTANT MATTER •

END PAGE FIVE:

DocId: 32291564 Page 2

---

