# docid-32301380

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10215

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-364, 365, 366, 367

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, NY

TITLE :

DATE:

08/19/1970

PAGES: •

8

SUBJECTS :

SHF, TRA, FRANCE, ENGLAND, EMP, POLIT ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T, MEMO, LHM

49.1

DocId: 32301380

150

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Note).

DATE: 11 UNITELY STATES GI VERNMENT

Memorardlum

TO

Trians

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235) 5.

LEGAT, PARIS (100-2020) (RUC)

SUBJEC

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

DATE: 10-20-70

ReBuairtel 8-19-70.

On 8-25-70 we alerted sources of this office to the

possibility that subject might be traveling to France and to th

fact that we were interested in any information which they

might be able to develop concerning her, if she did so.(s)

In the absence of any indication that such travel

actually was performed, this case is being placed in an

RUC status.

• 4 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Desk)

(1

-New York, 100-42479)

1 - Paris

REP: jmw

(5)

AIT INTOTMATION CONTAINED

CICLLSSITIED

11/30/94

Classified bor SPsmApach

Declassi or MADRIfte

ALRE SHOWN

OTHEKWISE

by routing slip for

I into,

560E68H

BRID

59NOV3

1970

EX.102

DOW INLETE DIA

BECID

1828339235-367

2

ACTRE 1970

RECREN

DocId: 32301380

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: "11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

WILLIAM H. MILLER, confidential source, on 9/4/70,

advised subject and husband were still in NYC and he had no

information concerning any planned travel on their part.

Observation conducted by SAS MICHAEL E. DENNEHY

and EDWIN YEE at Pan American Airways terminal JFK International

Airport, NY, 9/7/70.

boarding PAA flight #100 departing for London 10:00 a.m. that

deter thod departune co,

Neither subject nor husband were observed

date. It was determined the party of two surnamed FRANK, holding

reservations for the aforementioned flight were not identical to

subject and husband.

Information copies being furnished Legats, Paris and

London as they had

been requested to alert authorities and request

thereto. (S subject's activities in the event they travelled

NYO will remain alert for any overseas travel on the

part of either subject and/or her husband and advise the Bureau.

- 2-

CRET.

DocId: 32301380

Page

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

0.0

NY 100-42479

On 8/20/70, JIM FAYEK, Supervisor, Olympic Airways,

NYC, advised their records reflect no reservation in the name

of subject on

any Paris

flight for the period 8/21 - 9/5/70,

inclusive.

On the

same date L. KELLY, Supervisor, Pan American

worla Airways, NYC, advised their records reflect no reservation

in the name of subject on anv laris flight for the period

8/27 - 9/5/70, inclusive.

A. CHAPMAN, Supervisor, Trans World Airways, NIC,

on 0/21/70, made available for examination reservations for all

flights to London and Paris for the period 8/21 - 9/30/70; they

reflected no reservation in the name of subject.

On 8/21/70, WILLIAM H. MILLER, confidential source,

advised he was not aware of any planned travel on the part of

subject and would immediately advise the NYO should he become

aware of such plans.

On the same date Miss S. WEINER, United Travel

advised their records failed to

disclose any reservations in the name of subject.

DIANA KELLAN, Air India, and E. TZIYON, El Al Israel

Airlines, both of NYC, on 8/24/70,

advised their records reflect

no reservation in the

name of subject on any Paris or London

flight for the period 8/27 - 9/17/70, inclusive.

On 8/24/70, Mr. MOTITO, Supervisor, Pan American

World Airways, advised their records reflect no reservation

in the name of subject on any Paris flight for the period

9/6 - 9/15/70, inclusive.

On 8/26/70, Miss N. GONZALEZ, Supervisor, BOAC, NYC,

advised their records

reflect no reservation in the name of

subject for

the period 8/27 - 9/9/70, on any London flight.

sNy 6489-3 on 8/21/70,

advised SA BLAINE K. KATZ

Secret - No Foreign

1 Dissemination), information available to

sassinesse

Enq

_. NY

=?-

DocId: 32301380 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSassinatión Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-42479

No information is presently available at the Consulate Genera

f France at NY concerning either subject or her husband

Source indicated additional inquiries will be conducted through

appropriate sources at ParisSand in the event positive

Information is developed concerning subjects and their travel

it will promptly be made available to the FBI.

on 8/2570, ration Visa DEfice, NYc, advisea

SA THOMAS E, CONNELLY their pecoras reflect no visa application

for subject or her husband.

Bureau is requested to have Legat, London, alert

appropriate authorities concerning subject's

possible travel

and request coverage of activities.

Legat, London, is in possession of prior communications

setting forth background data re subject and husband.

"Info copy being furrished Legat, Paris, as it had

been requested to alert authorities concerning subject's

planned travel and request all possible coverage (S)

New York will intensify investigation of subject

and attempt to ascertain activities and will also cover

departure Pan American World Airways flight 100, 9/7/70, to

determine whether FRANKs are identical to subject and husband.

- 3-

SECRET

DocId: 32301380

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F, Kennery Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210% Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

.1 - Mr. Pence

819-70

CORDAY ADM

MAILED Di

AUGI 8 1970

COMM-FBE

Tolson _

Sullivan -

Mohr _

Bishop

Brennan, C.D. -

Callahan -

Casper

Comrad

Felt

Gale -

Rosen

Tavel

Waltered

Soyars,

Tele. Room'

Holmes

Gandy

Airtel

TO:

SAC, New York (100-42479)

Legat, Paris (100-2020)

Fron: Director, FBI (100-339235)

SUSAN HEILIGAN

FRANK

IS - CH

11/30/946

Passport Ottice, Department of State, advised 8-18-70

subject planning travel france, scheduled departure 9-1-70.

subject indicates stay of approximately one month.

New York immediately intensify

investigation subject

and ascertain activities including detailed itinerary. Follow

and verify departure.

submit results investigation in LH

with airtel cover for transmittal

trench authorities throug

Legat, Paris. Advise Bureau separately by most expeditious

means details re travel plans of immediate interest Bureau and

foreign agencies.

д

Paris alert authorities subject's planned travel

France and request all possible coverage (s)

1 - Foreign Liaison Desk (route through for

RLP: 1jW

(7)

REC 25

EX-105

19

-324

NOTE:

AUG 19 1970

Subject is free-lance writer

and well-doeumented

pro-Chicom sympathizer.

She is

Category I SI subject and

NYO maintains intensive interest.

Has been described by

Gus Hall,

Genera. secretary,

CPUSA, as "Chinese Communist

paymaster" in U.S.

Frequently travels abroad, especially

London and Paris and Paris well aware pertinent background.

In past, foreign agencies have given subject intensive coverage. (S)

anana te travel furnished telephonically to SA Graham Day.

Inglehart,

Passport Office.

SECRET

Ay

MAIL ROOM!

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32301380

Page 6

---

