# docid-32305332

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10462

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-IST NR 342

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/06/1967

"PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, CUBAN NATIONALIST MOVEMENT, PLANS,

TERRORIST ACT, CANADA, CUBAN GOVERNMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DoCId: 32305332

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-(44-USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

t tir. 11.1.11.111

"FN1

NE!! YORK

-6-

258PM URGENT 6-6-67

RPD

TO DIRECTOR 97-4194

FROM NEW YORK 195-39412 2P

.

1.1,.

"SECRET

ine Civil?

Си підй

ir. Prit..

Gitu

INFORMATION CONTAINED

EXC

#CLASSIFIED

WH

SHOWN

THERWISE

Classified t

Declassity a

311/95

walimin

Alies Candy

----

CUBNAT; INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA; REGISIRATION ACT-CUBA; NEUTRALITY

MATTERS- CUBA.

place +'97-4174 miRR

FETT

WILLIAM SAMPOL, WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMAIION IN THE

PASI, CLASSIFY SECRET, ADVISED SIX SIX, INSTANI, THAT HE WAS IN

CONTACI WITH BOTH IGNACIO NOVO, SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE MOVIMIENT

NACIONALISTA CUBANA (CUBAN NATIONALISI MOVEMENT) (ONM), AND GUILLEREIO

MOVO ON INSTANT DATE AND NEITHER OF IME NOVOS INDICATED ANY CURRENTE

ACTIVITY OR URGENT PLANS BEING FORMULATED BY THE CNM AT THE PRESENT

TINE. ($XU)

SAMPOL ADVISED THAT WITH REGARD TO PLANS OF DOCTOR ORLANDO

BOSCH OF MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR

MENTIONED IN NY TELETYPE SIX FIVE, LAST, GUILLERMO NOVO SIATED ON

SIX SIX, INSTANI, THAT NOTHING WOULD BE DONE UNTIL ANOTHER MEETING

WOULD BE HELD AT AN UNSPECIFIED DATE WITH EITHER BOSCH OR HỲS

REPRESENTATIVE. NOVO INFORMED SAMPOL THAT WHATEVER PROPOSALS WERE MADE

BY BOSCH AND HIS GROUP RELATIVE TO CARRYING OUT PROPOSED TERRORIST

END PAGE ONE /X U

047-44.

C TOT RECORDESE

1967

WAI SUN 24957

(5FК)

SECRET

NiLALEN IU

111

DocId: 32305332

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

'SEC

...

PAGE TWO

ACTIONS AGAINST THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN CANADA IN CONNECTION WITH

CNM PLANS, THESE PROPOSALS OF BOSCH WOULD HAVE TO BE APPROVED BY CNM

OFFICIALS IN MIAMI PRIOR TO ANY JOINI VENTURE IN. CANADA BY THE CNM AND.

THE MIRR. AYU

SAMPOL STATED THAT HE ANTICIPATED ASSISTING IGNACIO NOVO IN SETTINI

UP THE NEW STORE BEING OPERATED BY THE NOVO BROTHERS IN JERSEY CITY.

SAMPOL SAID THAI HE WOULD GO TO JERSEY CITY EITHER ON THE NIGHT OF

SIX SIX, INSTANT, OR THE NIGHT OF SIX SEVEN, NEXI, AT WHICH TIME HE

HOPES TO DEVELOPE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONCERNING ANY PLANS, ACTIONS OI

THE CNM AND THE NOVO BROTHERS. SAMPOL HAS BEEN INSTRUCIED TO MAIN-

TAIN CLOSE CONTACI WITH THE CNM AND TO IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE NEW

YORK OFFICE OF ANY DEVELOPMENTS. (7U

THE BUREAU AND INTERESTED OFFICES WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF ANY

FURTHER INFORMATION OR DEVELOPMENTS

ON AN EXPEDITIOUS BASIS.

MAIL COPY IO ALBANY, MIAMI AND NEWARK.

END

MKW FBI WASH DC

-

DocId: 32305332

Page 3

---

