# docid-32301486

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 210T Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10321

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-755

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MI

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/18/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, GALLO, JASPER, BUSS, RES, TRA, ZITTO, TONY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301486

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

F B.I

Date:

9/18/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAG, MILWAUKEE (92-262)

P

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Milwaukee airtel to Bureau 8/12/64 and WFO

airtel to Bureau 8/24/64, both concerning JASPER GALLO whO

allegedly visited this country from Italy on or about

August 1, 1964.

On 8/26; 9/8 and 15/64 MI 623-C-TE advised that

he had been unable to obtain any additional information con-

cerning the movements of GALLO in this country.

He suggested

however, that, in the absence of records on JASPER GALLO, 1t

might be possible to trace GALLO through the Italian equivalent

of his first name, 1.e., GASPERO GALLO.

Informant stated that

GALLO and JOSEPH ZITTO of Rockford, Illinois formerly were

co-owners of the Pinehurst Dairy in Rockford, Illinois at which

time JASPER GALLO waS boss of the Rockford family.

said that GALLO was married to the sister of JOSEPH ZITTO.

Informant

After he sold out in Rockford, he returned to Italy to live.

Informant did not know whether GALLO was an American 'or an

Italian citizen, but he stated that GAlLo served a sentence

at Leavenworth Penitentiary for bootlegging perhaps 25 years

Description of GALLO previously set out.

Informant also advised on

8/10/64, and Springfield

was informed by teletype, that GALLO at

be vis1ting TONY ZITTO.

that time was said to

REG 17

3 - Bureau (92-6054) (AM) (RM)

2 = New York (92-2330): (AM) (RM)

- Chicago' (92-1173) (RM)

22-6954-755

- Springfield. (02-461) (AM)(pmX 109

- WEO (AM) (RM)

NG SEP 21 1964

2

= Milwaukee (92-262) (137-1318)

not Imp

413)

Approved!

T2

5001Đ

Specief Agent in Chorge

Sent

-M : Per

DocId: 32301486 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. "70-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priorizy)

MI 92-262

None of the Information furnished by MI 623-C-TE

pertinent to the movement of GALLO should be set out in details

of a report but should be confined to Administrative rages for

the security of this informant.

In view of the fact that all checks to date have

produced only negative results,

the following additional leads

are being set out to identify GALLO and to determine whether he

recently Visited this country.

LEADS

CHICAGO DIVISION

At Chicago and Rockford, Illinois:

l.'

Will contact appropriate INS Office and determine whether

GASPERO Or JASPER GALLO was registered as an alien at

any time or whether there is a naturalization file pertaining

to him..

Will check with pertinent Clerk of U.S. District Court to

determine whether GASPERO OF JASPER GALLO was naturalized

while in Rockford.

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

1..

Will check passport records at the Department of State

for information on GASPERO GALLO.

2.

W1ll check Central Office of INS, Non-Immigrant Control

Of GASPERO GALLO OF JASPER GALLO.

Approved:

2

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId:32301486 Page 3

---

