# docid-32189519

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

HDENTFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10250-10229

RECORD SERIES: CG

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-6115-900

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. CG

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 05/03/1967

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 62-109060-5186

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6(4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32189519

Page 1

---

## Page 2

9803-Rdd/GAT..

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

5/3/67

SAC, CHICAGO (62-6115) (C)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

11/22/63

COMPIDENTAL

DALLAS, TEXAS

Re Bureau letter to Chicago, 4/17/67.

Enclosed herewith is one photograph of HARRY DEAN

belleved to be taken in 1960 and luraished to the indianapoli

Office by Captain EDWARD GRABOYAC, Detective Bureau, Whiting &

Indiana Police Department on March 6, 1961.

AND FIELD

DEAN first called the Chicago Office in August, 1960,

that he had been elected Recording secretary, Chicago

*Chapter, Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC).

he did

divulge his name and address at this time.

Later in the same

Chonth he called this office, stating his name and advising he

was residing at 1540 Central

Avenue, Whiting, Indians, and

that he owned his own business, the Whiting Plastering

Company:

He told of his connections with the FPCC, furnished

information concerning the leadership of this organization,

and sald that he would be amenable to an interview with an

agent of the FBI.

The Indianapolis Office conducted an inquiry in

Whiting, Indiana, in September, 1960.

Detective Captain

EDWARD GRABOVAC,

Whitirz, Indiana, Police Department, advised

that DEAN, whose real name he believed to be DORDON HUNT and

who had used the name GEORGE R. BAKER, had skipped town and

the Whiting Police Department had a warrant for his arrest on bad

check charges.

GRABOVAC said DEAN was a sell-employed plasterer.

The waiting, loalana Police vepartment procured an identifieation

record from the Detrolt, Michigan, Police Department under FBI

#4657880.

This record revealed that DEAN had been committed as

a mental

patient in Canada in 1948 and as sontenced at Chatan,

Ontario, for breaking and entering to "one year indeftnite."

AGENCIES

FICES

OUTING

SLIP (S) BY

DATE

BUreaU

Chicago

DWS: MHO

Clara

MENHALETIO

CLASS. & EVT.

REASON-FCIM II.

DATE OF REVIEN S

.4.2 2

019

Pires Live

HH 53025 DooId:32189519

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 62-6115

COMMAN

At this time DEAN had one arrest by the Detroit Police

'Department

for disturbing a religious meeting and two arrests for using

indecent and obscene language.

He was

also AWOL from Fort

Knox, Kentucky, in 1949.

In December, 1960, DEAN again called this office to

report that he had been residing in Detroit for the past two

months.

At that time he said he was living in Chicago but he

refused to divulge his local address.

He continued to

telephonically contact this office on several occasions until

June, 1961.

He furnished information concerning Cuban nationals

connected with the 26th of July Movement and on local persons

connected with the EPCC.

He was last contacted by two agents

of the Chicago

Office on June 7, 1961,

at which time he was told that this

office did not desire his assistance.

Former CG 6403-S advised in August, 1960, that DEAN

was a white male, age about 25 (in 1960), stocky build, and

black hair.

While DEAN voluntarily furnished information to the

Chicago Office over a period of nearly a year, he was never

considered a PSI or

informant by this office.

On December 7, 1960, HARRY DEAN telephonically contacted

this office. He advised that

he had been in contact with a

ED SWABECK, 1716 St. Michaels, Chicago, Illinois, telephone

number Wh 4-6445. He stated that he had originally met SWABECK

in Cuba

this past summer. He said that SWABECk invited him to

a meeting in his home on the evening of December 7, 1960 at

7.p.m.

DEAN stated that

that this

this is a meeting of a Fair Play For

- Play Tor

Cuba Committee (FFCC) group and that he intended to attend.

He said that from they SWABECK talked it is his belief that

this group is trying to out due other groups re the FPCC and

thus cause a split in the group.

He also said that SWABECK

made mention of a letter that he received from TABER which

stated that EDDIE SHAW of Detroit had been moved into a position

similar to that of a regional director of the FPFCC.

- 2÷

CON DENTAL

IN 53025 , DocId: 32189519 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 62-6115

CON

ENTIAL

On December 20, 1960 CG 6403-S

advised SA RAYMOND

E. MOONEY Of

a meeting of

a group of persons interested in

forming a North Side Branch of the Chicago Chapter of the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee which meeting

was held on

December 7, 1960 at the home of EDWARD SWABECK, 1716 St.

Michaèl's Street, Chicago®

This group decided

that an

organizational meeting

should be held

on January 6, 1961, at the hone of MIMI HArRIs.

BARNETT was selected to be in charge of the program,.

SWABICK was assigned the duty to have the announcements printed

by DICK CRILEY and mailed, and HARRY DEAN was to call ANGUS

SUMNER and JORN ROSSEN to

obtain reading material that can

either be sold or passed out free of charge.

Temporary

Branch Officers, 1.e., Chairman, Secretary and Educational

Director are to be elected

and

MARCIA STARR will collect dues

from new members..

During this meeting, HARRY DEAN was overheard to

state that just before he left whiting, Indiana, he had been

his window and he was

given a "hard time" by the townspeople. 'He said that

he

is presently a sheet metal worker in Chicago. DEAN alSO

stated that he was in Cuba in June, 1960, and while en route

met:ID SWABECK on the plane. He and SWABECK were in Cuba

at the same time and were together in Cuba at least part of

the time. DEAN said his first contact with the Cubans was

when he donated money to the Cuban cause on two occasions when

they held parades on, state street in 1958.

At that time, he

mentioned that

he was working for the Curtis Publishing.

Company. DEAN Said he then went to the Cuban Consulate,

Chicago, and net Dr. FERRIER, & Consulate official.

DEAN

expressed his sympathies toward the CASTRo revolution to.

DI.

FERRIER.

He said that Dr. FERRIER knew of and worked

with the 26th of July Movement

In Chicago, and he also knew

of the formation of the FPCC.

According to DEAN, Dr. Furain

CON

INDENTIAL

IN 53025 DocId: 32189519 Page '1

---

