# docid-32287850

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act of 1992 (11 USt 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10198-10126

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1900

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/05/1966

3

SGI, ASSOC, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287850

162

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-7017

ivi

WA -3=

4:40 PM CDT EH

190t

Mr. Tokson

Mr. DeLrach

Mr. Mishr_

Mr.

fick

rarper.

¡cliahan-

ir.

conrad

DEFERRED

DO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

18/5/66

DCM

3P

Mr. T'e

M1:

Tele. Room

Miss I! inu3

Miss. Gardg

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AXA. AR. 00 CHICAGO.

AS BUREAU AWARE, GIANCANA HAS FAILED TO TAKE AN ACTIVE

ROLE IN LEADERSHIP OF ORGANIZED CRIME HERE SINCE TIME HE C

COMMENCED HIS ONE YEAR INCARCERATION, JUNE, SIXTY FIVE. AT

PRESENT TIME, CHICAGO SOURCES GENERALLY REPORI THAT GIANCANA

APPARENTLY HAS NOW RETURNED TO CHICAGO AREA. HOWEVER,

GIANCANA HAS NOT BEEN OBSERVED AT ANY OF HIS KNOWN HANGOUTS

AND APPARENTLY IS MAXING NO EFFORI THIS TIME TO RESUME STRONG

LEADERSHIP ROLE. (U)

BECAUSE OF GIANCANA'S INCARCERATION AND HIS SUBSEQUENT

ABSENCE THERE HAS BEEN NO STRONG LEADERSHIP OF THE CHICAGO

CRIMINAL GROUP• THIS HAS CAUSED FACTIONAL DISPUTES AND

DISSATISFACTION AMONG VARIOUS HOODLUM GROUPS MOST NOTABLE

OF WHICH IS OBVIOUS WIDENING RIFT BETWEEN FIORE BUCCIERI GROUP

AND FRANK LA PORIE GROUP. (U)

END PAGE ONE

EX114

REC- 67

92-3171-1901

4/24/84

OCT 6 1960

77001 1 / 1966

DocId: 32287850 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coilection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote):

• DATE: 11-14-2017

......

PAGE TWO

CHICAGO HAS RECEIVED INFORMATION DURING PAST TWO YEARS

THAT MEMBERS OF BUCCIERI ORGANIZATION WERE MOVING IN ON TERRITORY

OF FRANK LA PORTE IN SOUTH COOK COUNTY. CG SIX NINE NINE ZERO

• C - TE ADVISED THAT FIORE BUCCIERI HAS BEEN FEUDING WITH LA PORTE

FOR LAST EIGHTEEN MONTHS, U)

CG SIX EIGHT FIVE FIVE • C • TE ADVISED THAT JAMES

TORELLO, BODYGUARD FOR BUCCIERI, HAD INTEREST IN EAGLES-A-GO-GO

CLUB OWNED BY LA PORTE BUT OPERATED BY BOB AND JOE DAVID BOTH

OF WHOM ARE CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH TORELLO AND BUCCIERI. (U)

ON MARCH ONE LAST, CLARENCE FORRESI, BARTENDER AT ABOVE

CLUB, WAS FORCIBLY REMOVED FROM CLUB AND SHOT AND KILLED.

FORREST WAS REPORTEDLY KILLED FOR SPYING ON LA PORTE AND HIS

ASSOCIATES FOR BUCCIERI GROUP. (U)

CG SIX SEVEN ZERO ZERO • C RECENTLY ADVISED THAT FORREST

WAS KILLED BY LOUIS PRATICO, FORMER CHICAGO HEIGHIS POLICEMAN

AND BODYGUARD FOR LA PORTE, AND MARVIN O'LENA, SGI. BLUE ISLAND

POLICE DEPT. LAST AUGUST PRATICO'S BODY FOUND DEAD IN DITCH IN

CHICAO HEIGHTS• CG SIX SEVEN ZERO ZERO - C ALSO ADVISED THAT CLOSE

ASSOCIATE OF JAMES CATUARA TOLD HIM THAT HE HAD BEEN GIVEN

JOB OF OBTAINING TWO STOLEN CARS FOR CATUARA, WHICH ARE

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32287850 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 latey:

- DATE: 11-14-2017

• "PAGE THREE

BE UTILIZED FOR TWO ADDIIIONAL MURDERS. CG SIX SEVEN ZERO ZERO

•• C ADVISED THAT CATUARA HAD "CONTRACT" FOR PRATICO MURDER AND

CATUARA IS KNOWN TO BE CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH BUCCIERI GROUP. (V)

DURING LATE EVENING OCT FOUR LAST, BUAGENTS OBSERVED •

VEHICLES BELONGING TO DOMINICK BLASI, JOSEPH AIUPPA, AND JAMES

TORELLO PARKED AT TOWNE HOTEL

IN CICERO OWNED BY AIUPPA. JAMES

TORELLO AND FIORE BUCCIERI WERE OBSERVED LEAVING FROM BACK DOOR:

OF HOTEL AND DEPARTED IN TORELLO'S CAR. AT SAME TIME BLASI

LEFT VIA FRONT DOOR OF HOTEL. (U)

ABOVE HOODLUMS NOT USUALLY KNOWN TO MEET AT THIS HOTEL

AND POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT MEETING WAS FOR PURPOSE OF

DISCUSSING FUED BETWEEN BUCCIERI AND LA PORTE GROUPS. THIS

SITUATION BEING CLOSELY FOLLOWED FOR FULL EXPLOITATION AND

DISRUPTION OF CHICAGO HOODLUM ORGANIZATION. (U)

KASVE .

OSZF

C

RAK

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32287850 Page 4

---

