# docid-32397417

## Page 1

Date: 12/17/98

Page: 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+0+104-10433-10100

JFK

RUSS HOLMES

WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

b6-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

ATTORNEY GENERAL RAMSEY CLARK ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT ERIC STARVO GALT

00/00/68

KING

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS

OPEN

POSTPONED IN FuLL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.17.13:48:07:293128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53216

DocId: 32397417

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Attorney General Ramsey Clark announced today that

Eric Starvo Galt is being sought by the FBlas a fugitive on a Federal

charge arising from the fatal shooting of the Reverend Dr: Martin Luther

King, JI., in Memphis, Tennessce, on April 4, 1968.

Director J. Edgar Hoover stated that a Federal complaint

was filed by the FBI in Birmingham, Alabama, today charging Galt with-

conspiring to violate the civil rights of Dr. King in violation of Title 18,

Section 241, of the United States Code.

The FBI complaint charges that "On or about March 29,

1968, at Birmingham, Alabama, ..•Eric Starvo Galt and an individual

whom he alleged. to be his brother, entered into a conspiracy which

continued until on or about April 5, 1968, to injure, oppress, threaten,

or intimidate Martin Luther King, Ji., •

..in the free exercise or enjoy-

ment of a right secured to him by the Constitution or laws of the United

States; nameiy, the right to freely travel front state to siate. In

furtherance of this conspiracy, Eric Starvo Galt did, on or about diarch 30,

1968, purchase a rifle at Birmingham, Alabana.

Feel 7zuw(68

{3, )

227-23307

_ APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Daie 2, 24 narL 1978

244

U

53216

DocId:32397417 Page 2

---

## Page 3

According to Mi. Hoover, a 30.06 rille equipped with

a telescopic sight was found near a rooming house on South Main

Street in Memphis immediately after the fatal shooting of Di. King

occurred. The rooming house overlocks the Lorrzine Hotel and Motel

where DI. King was staying.

• Mr. Hoover said that FBI Agents deiermined that the

30. 06 rifle had been purchased from a gun dealer in Birmingham,

Alabama, on March 30, 1968. The telescopic sight also was

purchased from this dealer.

The FBI Director said that Galt, wno has used the

names of John Willard and Harvey Lowmyer in the past, is the owner

of a 1966 white Mustang bearing Alabama license plates which was

located abandoned in Atlanta, Georgia, on April II, 1968. Investigation

disclosed that Galt purchased this car from a privzie citizen in

Birmingham on August 30, 1967. The Mustang's odometer showed that

it had been driven more than 19, 000 mües between late August, 1967,

and early April, 1963.

2

1W 53216 DocId: 32397417 Pagé 3

---

## Page 4

According to Mr. Hoover, Galt's travels in the

Mustang included trips to Los Angeles, California; New Orleans,

Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama; and Mexico, as well as to

Memphis, Tennessee, and Atlanta, Georgia. Galt was reported to

have been in Memphis On Apfil 3 and 1, 1968, and to have deparied

from there for Atlanta.

Intensive investigation by the FBI has disclosed that

Galt has claimed to have been employed as a cook on Mississippi

River vessels and as a merchant seaman. He is said to be an avid

dancer and took dancing lessons in New Orleans in 1964 and 1965; in

Birmingham during September and October, 1967; and in Long Beach,

California, from December, 1967, to February, 1968.

Galt left Los Angeles on December 15, 1967, and drove

his white Musiang to New Orleans, where he claimed he contacted

either an engineering or a contracting firm. He left New Orleans on

• December. 19th and arrived back in Los Angeles On December 21, 1967

While in the Los Angeles area early this year, Galt

took a course at a school of bariending and was graduated on March 2,

1968.

The fugitive is described as a white male.

Heis approxi-

mately 5 jeet & inches to 5 lect 11 inches tall and waighs between 160:

and 175 pounds. He is said io be a neat dressci and has a mediur build

'=3

NH 53216

DocId: 32397417 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Galt has brown hair, which he wears in a "brush" cut.

He reportedly has blue cycs; his nose is straight and narrow; his teeth

are straight and clean; and he has given his date of birth as July 20, 1931

The fugitive is said to have a nervous habit of occasionally

pulling at an ear lose with his hand. His left ear protrudes farther from

his head than his right ear.

According to Mir. Hoover, persons who have mei Calt

describe him as a "loner" and state his language and diction have a

"rural" quality and suggest that he probably does not have a high degree

of education. He is said to drink alcoholic beverages and has a preference

for vodka and beer. He is a fan of western and country music.

-Darenalis

provides a marimum necal ones years imprisumnant ana/oa. So, un

Galt should be considered armed and cangerous. any

information concerning him should be furnished immediately to the

nearest FBI Office.

- 4

241-459273

NW 53216 DocId: 32397417 Page 5

---

