# docid-32334661

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90118-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-122-3086

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ROSEN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/05/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

TEN MOST WANTED BUREAU FUGITIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HW 45922

DocId: 32334661

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Office Mem Andam. UNHE ST DES CONTENDENT

TO

: The Director

DATE: August 5, 1959

Tolson -

FROM : A. Rosen

Board man

Belmont .

Mohr

Nease -

Pars ons

SUBJECT:

TEN MOST WANTED BUREAU FUGITIVES

- Rosent

ALL INFORMATICA

CONTAIN

ED

SYNOPSIS:

current developments relating to the Bureau's den lost li

Wanted fugitives are set forth.

DETAILS:

This will supplement previous memoranda submitted concerning

the Ten Most

wanted fugitives.

HARRY RAYHOND POPE

Pope has been

approved as replacement for Dominick Scialo, who

surrendered July 27;

1959.

The release date for Pope to the press will be

Tuesday P.M., August 11, 1959.

ANGELO LUIGI/RERO

Morris "Noishe" Biolansky and Sidney Seewald, former associates

of Pero, were interviewed subsequent to Scialo's surrender and both

denied

any knowledge of Pero's whereabouts.

However, they both expressed

the opinion that Pero will surrender himself in the near future in view

of Scialo's surrender. Mary Pero has been interviewed subsequent to

Scialo's surrender and denied hearing anything regarding her husband.

She was aware of Scialo's surrender from newspaper publicity and expressed

the hope that Pero is well and would likewise surrender. Various clubs,

bars and hoodlum hangouts which Pero is known to have frequented are

being checked by Agents of the New York Office in an effort to ascertain

information concerning Pero.

EDWIN SANFORD

O CARRISON

Forest Ford, former prison associate of Garrison, described

subject as a lone wolf individual who was too smart to talk of

for the future.

any plans

Ford said Garrison told him while in prison that if he

ever escaped again, he would not make the same mistake resulting in

capture.

United

The mistake Garrison spoke of was that he had stayed in the

states.

for this reason, Ford expressed the opinion that he does

not believe Garrison is now in the United States.

Nornan Eugene Price,

former associate of Garrison, has expressed the opinion that he feels

Garrison might have gone to Cuba.

The Legal Attache, Havana is conduct-

ing t vestigation in chat count effort to determing theyes, oF ng subject

might possibly be in that country

JPH: rec

89 AUG 12 1959

(5)

severa

NW 45922 DocId: 32334661

Page 2

PRIME REC

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to The Director

Re: TEN MOST WANTED BUREAU FUGITIVES

tracks.

San Diego is canvassing both of these race tracks at this

time in an effort to locate the above-described individuals and/or

automobile.

EUGENE FRANCIS NEWMAN

OTHER 4

lew ork City

the New York Office.

Francis pledged his full cooperation should he develop informa-

tion of value.

is being sent to Norfolk, Virginia, irmediately after his car information

in an accident, is repaired,

in an effort to develop further

A former girl friend of Newman reported meeting him in Norfolk

on or about June 30, 1959.

FREDERICK GRANT

DUNN

Kansas, indicated he might travel to Canada and stay with an old buddy of

while incarcerated in the U. S. Penitentiary, Leavenworth,

Extensive investigation both in the United States

Canada was conducted to locate O'Malley. The Royal Canadian Mounted

Police has recently indicated that O'Malley was located at the Saskatchewan

Penitentiary where he is presently serving a four-year sentence. Initial

interview of

D'Malley by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police was limited.

However, additional interviews are contemplated by the Royal Canadian

Mounted

Police at an early date and it is anticipated information of

alue may be elicited from him regarding Dunn's whereabouts.

DAVID DAN AN KROGAN

4.SB

Unsupported allegations are being received from time to time

that Keegan had been killed by one or both of his accomplices in the

robbery-murder for which he is being sought. In addition to other

exhaustive investigative efforts, careful investigation is being con-

ducted to pinpoint information

s death.

com

- 3 -

HW 45922

DocId: 32334661

Page

3

---

