# docid-32202015

## Page 1

Date: 06/27/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10004-10126

RECORDS SERIES :

REPORT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

JRIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DREW, WILLIAM MAYO

TO :

TITLE :

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

DATE : 07/15/63

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS :

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

ALPHA 66

CUBA

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54653 DocId:32202015 Page 1

---

## Page 2

8.501-59)

SSCI BOX #

377-

FEDERAL SUREAU OF I LESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

- ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

DATE

SUL 15 1963

INVESTICATIVE PERIOD

6/17-7/8/63

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM MAYO DREW, Jr.

CHARACTER OF CASE

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

TYPED:

hmt

CIA HAS NT OFLECTION TO

DECLASSE

: F:10/0R,

RELEASE

Le AdrOnMATION

PITHS DJLJNENT.G19324/9u

(9803 R00/8el 0/8/94 5FK)

SAN JUAN

- REFERENCE -

LAVE WE 3/ FEAR MAN MORGE

Report of SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JF.;

2/18/94 dudE -

ON

L

RELEASE IN FULTEADS -

RELEASE IN PART

PUERTO RIC

erganization this document is promena in response

Will continue to monitor bank account of subject

to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation a'si

"e do lin:

be dieclosue to wit

ü.

i person-

MIAMI

nel witliout ine express approval of the FBI.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

I Will maintain contact with logical sources and

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-112098-321

- Bureau (105-112098)

San Juan (105-6133)

(RM)

(RM

- CIA, Miami

(RM

.

INS, Miami

RM

U.S.

Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

- U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

(Additional copies Cover Page B)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

17 JUL 17 1963

REG 5

ST-1:

Notations

Reque

Dato Fi

How Fwd.

Copy lot

ONILOSVECSILE

1115

by couting slip ter spie

2h-b....

NAN ENT.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UACLASSIFILE

DATE 2/5/54 BY 9803 RADel

124

54653

DooId:32202015 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SSCI BOX #

377-

MM 105-6243

Copies - Continued:

1 - Office of Coordinator, Dept. of State, Miami (RM)

1

- ONI, Miami (RM)

- OSI, 6th District, Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)

1

- G-2, Headquarters

3ra Army.

Ft. McPherson,

Ga. (RM)

- U.S. Border Patrol,

Mami (RM)

7

- Miami

(2 = 105-5243)

- 97-406)

105-3107)

97-327)

1

- 105-1360)

Informants regarding activitles of the subjèct organization.

2. Will Interview RAMON QUESADA to determine whether

he will furnish any information regarding raid against

Tarara, Cuba, 5/19/63.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

Regarding Bureau teletype 6/14/63 setting out

information from CIA alleging raia on Cojimar, Havana, 1t

18 noted that no data which would tend to substantiate this

Information has been developed and it was, therefore, not

Included in this report.

This report has been classifled "Secret" because

1t containa Information from CIA memoranda so classified.

Regarding Lead #3 in referenced report, investigation

has determined that RENE CRUZ PEREZ 18 presently regiding

Room 214, Barlington Hotel, 1350 N.W. 2nd Street, Miam, but

to date efforts to contact him there have been negative.

Referenced report lead #2 to Interview ERNESTO

DIAZ, 552 N.W. 31st Street, 1s outstanding. As two SNFE

- COVER PAGE -

.B.

125

HH 54653 DocId:32202015 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SSCI BOX #

377-

Нм 105-6243

Somei

Some

boats are maintained to the rear of the DIAZ residence

and are presently being spot checked on a dally basis,

further efforts to interview DIAZ at this time would

regarding Lead #4, Inquiry in the vicinity of

the Standard 011 Station at

4420 N.W. Tth Avenue reflects

this station 1s operated by Cubans and that almost all business

18 with Cuban exiles.

In an effort to obtain some coverage

on this station on the possibility that the SNrE 1s obtainir:

sasoline there, Fast

we, has been contacted as a source in t...

regard.

1s most cooperative, anti-Cuban, and stated

he will Immediately contact the office when he observes

large amounts of gasoline being purchased from this station.

Mail said that on several occasions in the past he had

observed as many as six 55-gallon drums being loaded and

transported from the station during the course 'of one day by

individuals whom he considered to be Cubans. No direct

contact will be made with the proprietor of the Standard

Station at this time.

Regarding the Information furnished by CIA concernirg

alleged surveillance by FBI, 1t 18 to be noted that the only

surveillance conducted by Miami has been the spot check of

SNFE boats.

Mention by RAMON QUESADA of the bank account o!

SNFE Indicates thatt

hat the Boulevard

Bank, advised SNFE of our inquiry. It la noted

18

a Cuban friend of VECIANA.

dentit;

MY TOT Tas

- INPORMANTS -

Location

105-6243-612,627.632

105-6243-636

MM T-3 18

• COVER PACE -

HH 54653

DocId: 32202015 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-6243

Identity

MM T-4 1s

MM T-5 13*

MM T-6 1s

HH 54653

DocId: 32202015

Page

5

SSCI BOX #

37%-

Location

Instant report

Page 7

Instant report

Page 8

Instant report

Pages 12-15

• COVER PAGE -

1,27

---

