# docid-32315546

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10342-10264

RECORD SERIES: DE

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-823

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FITZPATRICK

TO:

DE

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1963

5

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

" RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

12/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315546

Page 1

35

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jol Fi

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNVENT

MEMORANDUM

TO:

FROM:

SAC , DETROIT (137-2879) Dated 4/16/63

SA ROBERT N. FITZPATRICK Is/ CI / / SI

SUBJECT:

DE 878-C- TE

/ / PCI / / PSI

Dates of contact:

4/11, 13/63

Titles and File Nos. on which contacted:

EUGENE ELLSWORTH AYOTTE, aka,

et al

NBA; MAIL FRAUD - CONSPIRACY

HYMAN "LINDY" NISKAR, aka, ITSP

ANTHONY "TONY" GIACALONE, aka, AR

MATHEW "MIKE" RUBINO, aka, AR

VITO "BILLY" GIACALONE, aka, AR

WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO, aka, AR

POLICE CORRUPTION FILE

SAMUEL JOSEPH GIORDANO, aka, AR

DAVE EDWARDS, aka, AR

JOSEPH LAUDICINI,

aka, AR

NICK DITTA, aka, AR

FRANK MUDARO, aka, AR

PETE CILLUFFO, aka, AR

FRANK PAGOTO, aka, AR

DANNY COSENTINO, aka, AR

HANDBOOK CONTROL FILE

NUMBERS CONTROL FILE

CAVALIER CLUB

SALVATORE "MOPS" LICAVOLI, aka, et al

ITWI

SAMUEL PAYNE, aka, ITWI

ROBERT YOUNTS, aka, ITWI

PERRY WILLIAM

WHITE, aka, ITWI

TOMMY MARINO, aka, ITWI

GUS CHEVIS, aka, ITWI

GEORGE HOFFMAN, aka, ITW

49-1253 (Keehan)

87-8561 (R. O'Neill)

92-228, (Lunt)

92-229

92-438

(Montefiore)

(Shelburne)

92-490

(Shirley)

92-647

(Heystek)

92-660 (Fitzpatrick)

92-755

(Fitzpatrick)

92-764 ([seman)

92-833 (Transeth)

92-834 (Shirley)

92-858 (Fitzpatrick)

92-888 (Churchill)

92-1053 (Heystek)

162-18 (Shelburne)

162-19 (Cammarota)

162-69 (Iseman)

165-3 (Shelburne)

162-138 (Lunt)

165-170 (Lunt)

165-171 (Brink)

165-174 (Cammarota

165-180 (Churchill)

168-59

(Lunt)

Rating

Personal Data

EXCELLENT

Coverage

SAME

see 22 8-2112

Serialized

Indexed Amo Filed

FBI - Detroit fu

4/16/63

RNF : BJM

(26)

LUNT

DocId: 32315546 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: .11-14-2017.

DE 137-2879

Informant advised that he was recently in company

with PHIL CRACCIOLA at MALOOF's Snack Bar on Kercheval Ave.

He stated that CRACCIOLA recently purchased this restaurant

from FREDDIE MALOOF. Informant advised that CRACCIOLA had

rented several rooms upstairs over a store across the street

from MALOOF's Snack Bar and that he was setting the place up

to open a card game and

crap game. He stated that he had

already hired JOHN "HAFI" ELIAS and PETE LEONARDO to "work"

his game, however, BILLY GIACALONE came to CRACCIOLA's restaruant

and warned him not to open. Informant stated that CRACCIOLA

"got the message" and he has given up hisplans to open a

gambling room.

Informant said that PETE LEONARDO went back to

his old job as a "stick-man" at the Macomb Social Club, a syn-

dicate gampling joint run by FRANK MUDARO and BUSTER LUCIDO

In commenting about PHILLIP CRACCIOLA,

Informant ad-

vised that CRACCIOLA is

"built like a fire hydrant" and is a

"real rough" little guy. He said that CRACCIOLA was a judo and

karate expert.. Informant recalled that several years ago he

and SAMIY GIORDANO were in Maloof's Snack Bar and somehow

GIORDANO got "mouthing off" at CRACCIOLA.

He said that GIORDANO

didn't know CRACCIOLA and their argument

"spilled outside"

Informant revealed that GIORDANO thought he was going to "eat

CRACCIOLA alive" and, after GIORDANO missed the first punch,

CRACCIOLA threw GIORDANO Over the hood of a car into the middle

of Kercheval Avenue.

Informant claimed that GIORDANO didn't

get up and he had a

hard time in dissuading CRACCIOLA from "really

stomping" SAMMY G.

He added that he helped SAMMY to his car and

took him to his apartment in the Chatezu-Frontenac where GIORDANO

"holed up" for

several days.

Informant

advised on 4/13/63, that he had received a

telephone call at houe from a stripper named SHAWNA, who is

appearing at the Book Bar on Michigan Ave., Detroit. He stated

He revealed that

Grand Rapids, Mich.

Informant disclosed that SHAWNA told him

that CANDY has asked her to call him and request that they

both come to see him Sunday, 4/14/63, in Grand Rapids as CANDY

had "something important" for Informant. He added that he has

no idea what CANDY might have lined up for him in Grand Rapids

but that he did intend to visit CANDY BAVIDSON.

Informant advised that he was in company with JOE

LAUDICINI

the

previous evening at the Wolverine Hotel.. Informant

= 2=

DocId: 32315546 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: «11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

revealed that LAUDICINI ran a very successful horse handbook

"in partners" with

an italian guy

_ named PETE (LNU)

from out

of his flower shop in the Hotel

Informant stated that LAUDICINI

told him that he had to close down recently as PETE (INU) "ran

away" with $70,000,00 out of the business.

He said that

LAUDICINI believed

that PETE fled to New

York City.

Informant

added that LAUDICINI was complaining that the worst thing in

the handbook business is that "protection money has gone way up."

Informant advised that LAUDICINI confided in him that he has

"The Inspector downtown" on his payroll. He added that LAUDICINI

did not name this police Inspector, although LAUdICINI operated

his "book joint" in the First Precinct.

Informant advised that he has been with NICK DITTA for

only a short time on a couple of occasions recently. He said

that DITTA had

a guy in from New York the past few days who

stayed at DITTA's home.

Informant claimed that he did not meet

this individual, an Italian guy, and DITTA seemed to want to

"hide" him. He added that this

friend of DITTA's was to return

to New York City that same day, 4/11/63.

Informant advised that TONY MOCERI ownS the AAA Store

Fixtures on Gratiot Ave. and Medbury St., Detroit.

He described

MOCERI as being about 60 years old and stated that MOCERI used

to operate a moonshine still years ago in Detroit and had been

engaged in whiskey smuggling. Informant advised that NICK

DI FATTA is said to have been missing for some time and, from

the word that he receives, DI FATTA has not been seen around town

in at least 1½ months.

Informant advised that BILL VICARY is in

business again.

that VICARY now owns and operates his

own tool and die shop around Hoover and Nine Mile Rds.

Informant

advised that AUGIE DI ORIO is real tight with his

money. He

commented that his brother, ERNIE DI ORIO, "doesn't have a dime".

numbers action of MIKE POLIZZI's

numbers operation is taken over the phone at DI ORIO'S A & C

Vernor Highway, Detroit.

Informant advised that he was with FREDDIE KRUSE,

"house bondsman" for MIKE RUBINO's numbers house, recently.

He said that KRUSE commented on the recent Detroit Police Dept.

raid on DANNY COSENTINO's horse handbook and that KRUSE told

him that COSENTINO's operation belonged to: TONY GIACALONE.

Informant advised that KRUSE also expressed hif belief that he

doesn't think that MIKE RUBINO is going to jail on the Palm

Furniture bankruptcy case, but that "JOHNNY AYOTTE is going to

ride the beef". He disclosed that FREDDIE KRUSE is also of the

DocId: 32315546

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 1372879

opinion that SAMMY GIORDANO will do a little

AYOTTE on this case.

time 1n jail with

Informant advised that he knows two of the three

Chevis brothers in Detroit.

He said that GUS CHEVIS is a gambler

who is married but who hangs around most of the time with Negro

girls.

He revealed that SAMMY CHEVIS is an ex-fighter who he

recalled was arrested with JAKE GIORDANO in the 40's for their

part in handling counterfeit OPA gas ration stamps.

added that SANMY CHEVIS was a suspect with CANDY DAVIDSON and

HARRY FLEISHER in the State Senator WARREN HOOPER murder and

did time with them for the later stickup of a Pontiac, Mich.

gambling club.

Informant advised that TOMMY MARINO used to be in the

numbers with PETE CILLUFFO.

I said that he had heard that

MARINO is now in "horse action"

', as is CILLUFFO,

and that

MARINO's new interest in the horses may stem from his brother's

activity in racing a stable of horses around the country.

Informant commented that MARINO's brother owns a horse named

LESLIE 1. which will race at local detroit tracks.

Informant advised that he was recently in company

with FRANK PAGOTO at Pagoto's East End TV Sales Co. at 13940

Kercheval:

Informant stated that in conversation PAGOTO told

him that he was looking for SAMY GIORDAND's brother, TONY

GIORDANO, who owes him (PAGOTO) $1500.00, frOm & numbers

swindle GIORDANO pulled on him.

Informant advised that he has been spending some

time around the Master Realty Co., 1333L Mack Ave. recently. He

said that LOUIE PETERS owns Master

He stated that

DAVE

EDWARDS, who is of syrian nationality, is PETER's brother-in-law

and also works at Master Realty.

Informant added that HYMAN

"LINDY" NISKAR

hangs around the real estate office all the time

with EDWARDS. Others who work at Master Realty, according to

Informant, are SALVATORE "MOPS" LICAVOLI, WOE CEDAR and WILLIAM

SONDERCROFT.

Informant advised of the identity of & card game

which is played widely at the Cavalier Club and in various card

rooms around Detroit.

He said the game is call variously

"Klabyash" or "Dabby". Informant said that it is a Russian

card

game but it is played mostly by Jewish gamblers. He added

that ABIE SHERMAN is

probably the foremost exponent of Klabyash

DocId: 32315546 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

in Detroit. Informant referred to Klabyash as a bidding game

where six cards are dealt and one card is turned over:

said that it is like euchre.

intermant stated, that the Jac

s highest and if vou take the last trick you take 14 points

He related that Jewish terminology is used in Klabyash, i.e,

the Jack is called "yash"

, the nine is called "menal", and

the last trick is called

"shtalk".

Informant advised that there is some talk around

that Polo's Drive In Restaurant will re-open.

He stated that

Polo's was owned by PETER PALAZZOLO, who sometimes uses the name

PETER POLO, and that PALAZZOLO is awaiting tral on an arson charge

stemming from the fire which demolished his drive in last year.

Informant advised that actually PALAZZOLO's mother owns the

southeast corner on Connors and

Mack Aves.,

Detroit, and that

she has it up for sale and is asking $30, 000.00 for

• the whole

corner lot.

Informant advised that he does not know SAMUEL PAYNE,

ROBERT YOUNTS, Or GEORGE HOFFMAN. A photograph of PERRY WILLIAM

WHITE, under Detroit PD NO. 111049, was displayed to Informant

and, though he stated that WHITE was vaguely familiar to him

as

an individual he thought to be active in the Negro numbers in

Detroit, he did not know WHITE personally.

Informant advised that he had recently heard of a book

or article written by former U.S. Narcotics Conmissioner HARRY

ANSLINGER who reportedly mentions of deceased Dr. BERNARD WEISS

of Detroit who allegedly buried

two million dollars obtained

through illegal narcotics sales. Informant advised that he was

recently talking to an individual he knows, whom he described

as a "legitimate kid", and this individual

mentioned to him that

his own doctor had spoken about the two million dollars buried

by Dr. WEISS.

Informant stated

that this individual told him

that his doctor had

remarked that when Ir. WEISS ever "got any

grief"

he always called "BLACK BILL" TOCCO in Grosse Pointe.

Informant advised that he could only guess as to Dr'. WEISS'

relationship with"BLACK BILL" TOCCO.

DocId: 32315546 Page 6

---

