# docid-32287108

## Page 1

• JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10384

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-50-273

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/16/1966

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

FLC, ACT, ASSOC, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RESPONSE MEMO

v9.1

NW 45761 DocId: 32287108

Page 1

---

## Page 2

720

TO

SUBJE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

UNCLASSIFIED* 21, 326

DATE

8/29/85

BYSPEBTA/GEL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (AT CPR) 701-11.8

UNITED STATES

'ERNMENT

Memorandum

DEC 2? 111

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/16/66

SAC, SEATTLE (62-0)

ProgrAn?

THOMAS EDWARD

YBECKHAM,

Aka

Dr. T. Edward Beckham;

FRED LEE CRISMAN; Aka

Dr. F. LeeXCrisman;

dba NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF

CRIMINOLOGY, INC., and

/ASSOCIATED AMBULANCE AND TOW-CAR

OPERATORS, INC.

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

PCI

has advised SA CHARLES E.

ROBINSON that he is acquainted with captioned individuals,

having become acquainted with them while endeavoring to

secure approval of the Washington State Patrol as an

ambulance service operator at Olympia.

The more he has

become involved with BECKHAM and CRISMAN the more he is

suspicious of their operations. They have established

a lobbying group known as the Associated Ambulance and

Tow-Car Operators, Inc. and the National Institute of

Criminology, Inc.

Both corporations were formed by CRISMAN

and BECKHAM as Washington corporations.

Captain CHET BREUER of the Olympia Police Depart-

ment has obtained copies of material prepared for the

National Institute of Criminology, Inc., wherein there is

advertised a course of study promising a "PHD" for about

$400.00.

It appears that the firm is very likely a

confidence game aimed at those with little educational

background.

advises that in August, 1966, he over-

heard

a conversation between BECKHAM and

CRISMAN wherein

CRISMAN said that he was taking $100,000.00 in "cold cash"

from the Democratic Central Committee to Caliornia.

About

ten days later CRISMAN appeared at

place of

business at which time he commented that he had delivered

2/- Bureau

1 - Seattle

JEM/vtp

(3)

EX-104

REG: 8Z

OTHER 4

1-12-67

15 CC 22 100

67-9-50-273

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

4010=103

NW 45761 DocId: 32287108 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SE 62-0

$90,000.00 to someone in a hotel lobby in California, the

money coming from the Washington State Central Democratic

Committee for use of the Democratic Party in California.

However, he was short $10,000.00 and made a side trip to

Las Vegas, Nevada to obtain the additional $10,000.00.

advises that CRISMAN claims to be a

Doctor of Psychology working with various higher level

state employees who have psychiatric problems.

has claimed to have given $500.00 to

BECKHAM and CRISMAN to assist in starting the captioned

corporations and in response to their claims as lobbyists

and a pretense that they will assist him in getting his

ambulance business approved by the Washington State Patrol,

they in turn wanting ten

percent of the profit in addition

to a $25.00 monthly retainer.

Captain BREUER has advised that he has made

inquiry at the Texas Department of Safety, Austin, Texas;

the Oregon State Police at Salem, Oregon, and the King

negative results. The Seattle Police Department records

show that a FRED LEE CRISMAN, born 7/22/19, formerly

resided at 1048 South Thistle, Seattle, as of 9/28/66.

Captain BREUER has further advised that CRISMAN

and BECKHAM

as co-owners of the Professional Research

Bureau received a business license from the City of

Olympia on 9/14/66, stating their purpose was public re-

lations, research psychology and criminology.

I suspect that BECKHAM and CRISMAN are con men.

The Bureau is requested to advise if it has any

information inits files which can be identified with

BECKHAM and CRISMAN.

OTHER 4

-2-

1pv01rd

NW 45761

DocId: 32287108 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SE. 62-0

JOHN O'CONNELL,

Attorney General, State of

ment are aware the oldent and ativ Police Depart -

ment are aware of the .

in tation any state taw.

are making inquiry to determine if they are

The reliability of

is unknown.

OTHER 4

NW 45761 DocId: 32287108

Page 4

---

