# docid-32316343

## Page 1

Released under the Jolr F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aöt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10346-10463

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

ELSUR 92-61-967

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

WYNN

BU

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/15/1963

5

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316343

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

,United States Government

MEMORANDUM

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC

(92-61)

SA B. HARRY WYNN

STEVE MAGADDINO

AR

Date:

11/15/63

On 10/8/63 BU 297-C-TE advised that he was in

attendance at a stag party

honoring CHARLES A. MONTANA's

Informant stated he arrived at approximately 1:30 p.m.

and noted that the tables were arranged in such a way

that

they converged or were distributed around one table of

prominence at

which STEVE MAGADDINO and his party were seated.

The nocupants of the tables closest to STEVE MACADDINO

were made up of those closest

to STEVE MAGADDINO and each

table was presided over by one of STEVE's close associates

or members of his blood family.

Irformant stated that there were six people seated at

the tables in the main

diningroom and

STEVE MAGADDINO's

table were seated the following individuals:.

1 - 137-954

137-100A

1

- 92-58 (La Cosa

Nostra)

1

- 92-5% (ANTONIO MAGADDINO.)

-92-197 (VINCENT SCRO)

1

- 92-58 (JAMES D.

LA DUCA)

92-128 (CHARLES A. MONTANA)

92-288

1

(PETE. MAGADDINO)

92-407 (PETE MAGADDINO)

-

92-174 (FRED RANDACCIO)

1

92-296 (PAT NATARELLI)

/ 92-53 (JOHN C. MONTANA)

92-278

1

1

1

-

92-428

(JOEN AMHER JACOBI)

(FRANK "WHITEY"

-

92-298

•(STEVE CANNAROZZO)

92-277 (SAM BONITO)

92-281

(FRED MOGAVERO)

92-61-

9:67

, Searched.... Indexed.:.

Serialized. be. Tied.

NOV 1 5 1963

FBI BUFFALO

weit

DocId: 32316343 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Hotey:

DATE: 11-14-2017

10346-16463

BU 92-61

STEVE MAGADDINO

PAT NATARELLI

FRED RANDACCIO:

A guy from Rochester sat on STEVE's left and the

informant has met this fellow on a prior occasion.

A guy from Philadelphia sat on STEVE's right. The

informant has never seen this individual before.

A guy seated two seats from STEVE's left was also

from Rochester and

the informant has never seen him before.

Seating at VINCENT SCRO's table were the following

individuals:

AL PACINI, an attorney.

SAM PANGATORE

PETE MAGADDINO (son)

ANTONIO MAGADDINO

À cousin of CHARLES A. MONTANA from Niagara Falls.

CHARLES A. MONTANA's table consisted of the groom,

grooms father-in-law and individuals unknown to the informant

whom he believes to be friends of the groom.

JAMES LA DUCA's table consisted of five individuals

whom the informant had never observed before.

In addition to the above, the following individuals

were observed by the informant in

attendance at the party:

SNOWBALL PANARO's son-in-law

GEORGE RAFT (SALVATORE BONITO) :

MICKEY LEONE (SEBASTIAN MISURACCO)

- 2-

DocId: 32316343 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BIT 92-61

JOHN CAMILLERI

(FNU) LANZA

WHITEY JACOBI

JOE JACOBI (brother of WHITEY)

NICK the Gambler (NICHOLAS S: GAETA, aka Nick the Greek)

JOEY D.

JOE the Bear

STUMBLES

PATSY POLITANO

FRED MOGAVERO

CHARLES MONTANA's son-in-law (ALEX BASIA)

SAM RANGATORE

A guy from Löckport

STEVE CANNAROZZO

Little PETE

, MAGADDINO (SOn Of ANTONIO)

PAT SPALLINO

A guy who owns Como's Restaurant, Niagara Falls.

A guy who

Falls (PETEY MACK)

owns Pine Bowl, Niagara Falls Blva., Niagara

Informant stated that everyone was well behaved, that

the food was excullent and thet the drinks were plentiful. Informant

continued that when he entered he was met by JAMES IA DUCA and

introduced to the people at LA DUCA's table who were elderly

men of Italian extraction whose identities were unknown to the

-3-

DocId: 32316343 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 0346-10463

BU 92-61

informant.

Informant

paid his respects to SIEVE and was

introduced to the men at SIEVEls table but could not recall

their names.: The

informant then proceeded to VINCENT SCRO's

and CHARLES MONTANA'S tables and

subsequently to his own.

Informant stated that

there were no speeches and the purpose

of the stag was to raise money for the prospective son-in-law..

CHARLES MONTANA advised the informant that 500 tickets had been

sold at $5 each and approximately 260 people were in attendance

at the party.

•At approximately 10:15 p.m. the informant decided to

leave and approached VINCENT SCRO's table in order to express

his regrets at having to leave his party.

At this time VINCENT

SCRO determined from the informant that it was 10:15 p.m. and

VINCENT glanced toward STEVE.

STEVE stood up at which time all

thosein attenüance

ceased their activities and preparation began

fOr STEVE MAGADDINO's departure.

According to the informant

two groups of men left the cafe one group going north and the

other south and each group examined the block prior to MAGADDINO's

departure.

shortly thereafter two rare groups len left anc

took positions.on both sides of the door and ön*

the cur'ing which

separated the street traffic from the door of the café.

this point PAT NATARELLI and JAMES LA DUCA left the cafe walked

west and

I took positions near the parking lot.

SAM RANGATORE.

the chauffeau for STEVE and another young

Italian man had left

the cafe and walked toward the parking loc.

RANGATORE ordered

the younger man to start the car and bring it to the edge of

the parking lot. It is the informant's opinion that this was

done in that

the automobile had a bomb in it the

man was more

younger

expendable than RANGATORE Or MAGADDINO.

subsequently

MAGADDINO came out of the door supported by FRED RANDACCIO who

was holding his left arm and VINCENT SCRO who was on his right.

According to the informant it is apparent that SCRO and RANDACCIO

said he

would see him this week.

Informant will attempt to secure names of individuals

sitting at the

head tables.

As previously reported, informant purchased three tickets

to this affair.. Informant made available one of the tickets which

his being retained in the lA Section of 92-337 La Cosa Nostra.

=+-.

DocId: 32316343 Page 5

---

