# docid-32331191

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10137

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-177

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/02/1963

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

/

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32331191

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

MM 92-106

Attempt to determine any connection

subject may have with GEORGE LANGLEY, who allegedly

recently moved to Mlami from Washington,

D. C.

4.

Interview JACK B. HELLER and ROBERT

of subject at the time of his

MUNCEY, whose business cards were in the possession

arrest In Las

regarding their association with subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted the investigative period for

Instant report overlaps the period for previous reports

in order to include Information furnished by Legat,

London, This information received by Miami via Bureau

routing silp dated February 14, 1963.

(4)

A confidential source abroad referred to in

Instant report is information furnished by New Scotland

Yard,

through Legat, London.

This information furnished

to Miami via Bureau

1963.

routing slip dated February 14,

The Bureau agents who were participating in

a surveillance of ANGELO BRUNO on March 1, 1963,

and observed the subject at the pläyboy Barber Shore

Bay Harbor Islands,

are SA JACK LOUIS MARSHALL,

SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH and SA FRANK FOREE, JR.

Mr. SHELDON KRANTZ, Assistant Departmental

Attorney, advised SA JACK LOUIS MARSHALL on February 27,

1963, that subpoenas for the hearing to determine the

subject's assets were

scheduled for February 20, 1963. Mr. KRANTZ said

that in a preliminary conversation with FRANK STEINBERG,

attorney for the subject, STEINBERG suggested a partial

settlement of the IRS Judgement in 1944 against TOURINE

for the amount of $2800. STEINBERG said the govern-

ment was attempting to embarrass TOURINE by holding

this hearing and that TOURINE did not have the $2800

at this

time.

Mr. KRANTZ said the government rejected

C

- COVER PAGE -

(4)

92-2989-177

DocId: 32331191

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-11-2017

MM 92-106

STEINBERG's offer and made plans to go ahead with

the hearing.

On February 18, 1963, STEINBERG came Into

the Departmental Attorney's office in Miami and paid

the $2800 commenting that "CHARLIE has good friends."

The proceedings were then dismissed and the subpoenas

were canceled.

The following Information 1s not being reported

outside the Bureau by request of the Richmond Office:

RH 95-C telephonically advised SA HOWARD B. RICHARDSON

on March 21, 1903, that during the first part of this

week he was

talking with FRANK NALIS of the Nalls-Carter

Gambling Operation (RH file 168-24): NALIS stated

that he had on Monday or Tuesday night been at the

Jefferson Corporation located at the Arlington Towers

Shopping Center,

Arlington, Virginia, where he met

and had a long discussion with JOE NESLINE and CHARLIE

WHITE (CHARLIE, the Blade, TOURINE) .

NESLINE and WHITE advised NALIS that they

now have a

"big crap game" going in Maryland, which

1s located in an old hunting lodge betwen Waldorf

and LaPlata, Maryland.

They stated that many of their 4

customers are coming from Richmond and other Virginia

points as well as from the District of Columbla.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 1s MM 829-PC contacted by SA C. GRAHAM

HURST and SA DON W. WALTERS.

MM T-2 1s MM 665-C contacted by SA ROBERT F.

FETZNER.

MM T-3 1s MM 509-C contacted by SA ROBERT F.

FETZNER®

MM T-4 1s PH 623-C*.

MM T-5 Is MM 848-C contacted by SA C. GRAHAM

HURST.

-D=

- COVER PAGE -

CONZETAL

DocId: 32331191 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-106

MM T-6 1s JAMES CARIOTA, PCI, contacted

by SA CHARLES V.

POWELL.

MM T-7. 1s NK 2344-0.

CONTACTA

- COVER PAGE -

DocId: 32331191

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1D-204 (Rov- 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:

Dotes

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

GUN GENIAL

1 - United States Attorney, Miami,

Florida

Attention:

WILLIAM KENNEY)

JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

MAY 2

1963

Offices

Miami, Florida

Fiold Office File #:

92-106

Bureau Fllo #s 92-2989

Title:

CHARLES TOURINE

NG

AND

OFFI

ADVIS.

characters

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Informant advised subject has a penthouse apartment in Hampshire

Towers Apartments, Subjet not seen around his apartment for two

Miami Beach, and also,

a second apartment in

the same building.

to three weeks.

Informant advised

subject notin Miami area on

3/13/63,

• Informant advised subject present at a large dice game

in Miami area on 2/15/63. JOSEPH NESLINE advised he has known

subject approximately 30 years and has been associated with him

in gambling enterprises.

ARMAND CERAMI advised subject has invested

no money In Tony!s Fish Market Restaurant or Tony Sweet's

Restaurant in Miami Beach.

Subject observed conversing with

ANGELO BRUNO and CHARLES COSTELLO In Bay Harbor Islands, Miami

Beach, on 3/1/03• confidential source abroad advised subject

frequents Friar's Club when in London, England, and allegedly

arrested In Las vegas, Nevada,

vagrancy and failure to register as an ex-felon.

<*(U)

155.

P

ETAILS:

ASIATED E

1239

CATEGORY

-RATION INDEFINITE BER

RESIDENCE

TE OF DEC

3/29/18

MM T-l advised on February 20, 1963,

that MARVIN

SCHULMAN, a Miami contractor, built the Beaux Arts Apartments

North

Bay Village and more recently completed construction/

f

the Hampshire

SCHULMAN

SL

92-2989-477

acument contains noither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property, of the FBI and is loaned to

your adancy: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32331191

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM: 92-106

On March I, 1963, subject was observed by

Bureau agents on the

sidewalk in front of the Playboy

Barber Shop, 9565 Bay Harbor Terrace, Bay Harbor Islands,

Miami Beach,

and an unknown male:

conversing with ANGELO BRUNO, CHARLES COSTELLO,

"After conversing for approximately

thirty-five minutes, subject departed the barber shop with

the unknown male and another unknown male in a 1963

plates and proceeded to

Avenue, Bal Harbour, Florida.

In ormation developed by MM T-4 establishes that

ANGELO BRUNO 1s the

"Representando Officiale" meaning

"Boss" of the Philadelphia family of "LaCausa Nostra,

which is the designation for the National Organization

comprising the Italian underworld.

CHARLES I. COSTELLO, 2468 North Bayshore Drive,

North Miami, Florida, advised

he has been Intimately

acquainted with ANGELO BRUNO all his life and that they

are cousins.

COSTELLO said ANGELO BRUNO 1s a frequent

guest at his home in North Miami and that he has given

BRUNO permission to use his home when BRUNO 1s in

M1am1.

Mr. JAMES J. ANDREWS, Manager, Red Top Sedan

Service, Inc., 1000 LeJeune Road, Miami

advised on

March 5, 1963, that subject rented a 1963 Chevrolet

from this agency on February 13, 1963. He said the rental

rates for this car is $155 per month including 1500 free

miles.

Mr. ANDREWS also stated the subject rented this

car through JERRY BROOKS.

JERRY BROOKS Is known to be an

associate of

the subject and presently operates Wolfié's Restaurant

on 163rd Street in North Miami Beach.

1963, the

A confidential source abroad advised on March 11,

subject, when in London, England, frequents

the Friar's Club, reportedly owned and managed by JOSEPH

GAVENTA, also known as "CHUMMY" and it has been alleged

4

*(4)

- 7-

92-2989-177

DocId: 32331191 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-106

that GAVENTA gave a "share" in the club to the

subject.

(U)

GAVENTA resides at 33 Devonshire Close,

London,

England,

W.I:

On July 19, 1940, he was sentenced

to eighteen months

imprisonment for recelving stolen cloth.

He has also been suspected in the past of doping race

horses.

(и)

This

same confidential source abroad also advised

the subject,

, when he is in London, Is a very close associate

of and is frequently seen with THEODORE LEWIN.

When the

subject

and LEWIN are together, money is no object with

them and they frequently flash

large sums of money in the

gambling clubs around London.

As previously reported,

the

subject was in

Switzerland during August, 1962,

and was in

the company »

of one GEORGE LANGLEY born July 1l, 1914.

(u)

The following 1s the arrest record and physical

description for GEORGE LEE LANGLEY, FBI Number 5052621:

Contributor of

Name and

Fingerprint's

Arrested

Number

or Rec'd Charge

Disposition

PD Wash DC

GEORGE

LEE

LANGLEY,

#107758

7/22/47

USM, Wash

D. C.

setting up

gaming table

and poss.

Number

s11ps

1501-2 Sec. 22

DCC

USM, Wash

D. C.

USM Wash DC

GEORGE I. 2/16/48-

LANGLEY

#USC-9560

GEORGE

9/15/54

LEE

LANGLEY

#USCL 8837

GEORGE L.

9/24/54

LANGLEY

#979-54

704 T22-Dcc

704-22DCC 371

T18 USC

4

-8-

92-2989-1771

DocId: 32331191 Page 7

---

