# docid-32165528

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE

11-14-2017

3/20/2014

JFK PUI KESUIlS

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10158-10053

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3229

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

:04/01/1964

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, TRA MEXICO, CP, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Do c tttp//Y.895399/cgippinfstarfyrder/8542/fksnew.bt

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Agte.

DATE: 11-14-2017

INTIONAL i AM NU. 1U

5010-108-U3

MAY 1952 ELATION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

• UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

COMPIDENTTAL

TO

Director, FBI (105-82555)

FROM

MUlegat, Mexico City (105-3702) (P)

#/1/04

980310/22 6/1313 TAK

5/27/93

Classified bo

Declassify on: CARRrEIFK

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS --R - CUBA

ReBulet 3/25/64.

V

AND FIELD

AFICES

ADVISED

SLIP (SA

ROUTIN

DAIS 8/ 1722

Classification

(u]

line

17/19/88.

'stion

180-16449-1448

Referenced letter set forth that MEX-18 and

MEX-19 should attempt to resolve some of the questions

set forth in referenced letter and which have arisen with

regard to Mexico City letter and

• letterhead memorandum

dated*3/16/64g

It is noted that MEX-18 and MEX-19 har

SCLu

been trying to resolve the questions which have evgived angl

these informants have been anticipating and hoping that they

will be able to learn more from ELIZABETH CATIEN

Bufile 100-395934; MC'file 100-939)

as soon as

they are

able to do so. gee?

0(4)

mexico

With regard

to the questions set forth in refere

letter, the following has been determined:

STORALIA

ASSIFIED

LOWN

ALL INFORIA?

HERDIN

TX C

No confirmation has been received from any other

sources in Mexico that the Communist Party of Mexico was

interested in obtaining all information regarding subject's

Mexico trip.

There has been no indication to date from

other persons that the Communist Party of Mexico has taken

any steps to obtain this information or that

the Communist

Party of Mexico was interested in obtaining information as

to how much

-merican authorities know

about subject's trip

to Mexico.

4)

UNGECONDAD COPY FAIN LN

-HM DeC

mem

410/64

доб

In connection

XEROs referring to OSWALD'S activities before he went

with the question as to whether MORA

before he went theiruin

to Russia

Mexico, MEX-18

and MEX-19

emphatic

Bureau

(1 - Liaison

EX-108

20C4

[ú]

Section)

"(1 - Dallas,

1 - Mexico City

100310461)

4/0 485-82555 32291

FER: jhElassified by

12

(5)

2116/64

APR $ 1964

Exempt fron

GDS Category.

1cc - Date /da Declassification/ Indefinate

RS -4/1/64

71371040

TNG/i+f

CONT

(DENTIRE X

DocId: 32165528

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released unter the

Tonni

DATE: 11-14-2017

'F".

Kennety

assassination

Recoris

"Collection Aet or 1992 111 Use 2107 Moter.

BONEMENTIAD

MC 105-3702

that MORA stated OSWALD's activities before he went to Russia

and not his activities before he went to MexicoSu)

Concerning the statement which MORA made to MEX-18

and MEX-1Q that OSWALD was well known in Russia among the

Americans who were there at the same time as he was and that

he was "not that much of a nut," meaning that he could not

save undertaken singly to assassinate President Kennedy,

MEX-18 and MEX-19 consider that it was MORA's thought that

President Kennedy aloned(u)

have undertaken the assassination of

As was noted in paragraph 3, page 2, of Mexico City

letterhead memorandum dated 3/16/64, MORA did not divulge her

source of her information regarding

the impression of oswall

gained by Americans in the Soviet Union.

Since MEX-18 an

MEX-19 have heard MORA make the statement previously

that

she has corresponded with MARY LOUIS PATTERSON, who has been

residing in the Soviet Union, it is these informants? belief

that PATTERSON is the source

in Russia who advised that oswall

was well known among Americans there.?

UNY USSIE

MEX-18 and MEX-19 have advised that they hope to

determine from MORA furthe

details regarding her previous

statements about OSWALD.(.u)

587814

{ul

From information which MEX-18 and MEX-19/ have

learned about MORA becoming a Mexican citizen, it is considered

that if MORA were interviewed, she would be antagonistic

ecause she as strongly aware of her rights as a mexican (4)

itizen and MEX-18 and MEX-19 have advised previously tha

if any Mexican police attempt to at any time interview her,

they are going to run into "a tiger."

If she were to be

interviewed by the Mexican police or by any representative

of the United States Government, there are no grounds to

believe that she would be cooperative in any manner and the

[u]

probability exists that she would be

astute enough to determine

that she has told only MEX-18 and MEX-19 the information and

EMITA

this would expose these informants.

-2 -

ISEGRE

CON DENTIAT

DocId: 32165528 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Heleased wder the John F:

DATE: 11-14-2017

assassination Recoris

CoTtention Aut Dr 1992 791 USC 2107 Hotel.

CONFLY

ENVIRL

MC 105-3702

(4) <43

It is noted that NEX-18

and MEX-19 have advised

that they are unable to ascertain information from MORA

through direct questions.

Whenever a question is made to

MORA, she ceases talking, and the only manner in which these

informants are able to ascertain data from MORA is to needle

her, then sit

back

and with a sympathetic ear listen to what

she

has to say,

(E)(e) (C)

MEX-18. and MEX-19 intend to learn from MORA addi-

tional details in order to answer the pertinent questions

which have arisen, and they intend to pursue vigorously the

objective set forth for them concerning any information MORA

has in her possession concerning OSWALD. To date these

informants have not been able to meet with MORA for a two

or three day period because of her illness and her other

preoccupations.

Present plans are for them to take MORA

On a two or three day

"vacation" in the first half of April!"

As soon as these informants

have met with MORA, this will

e reported immediately, and recommendations will be made

as to any additional investigative steps to be taken &&yu,

The reason for Mexico City letterhead memorandum

dated 3/16/64, being classified "SECRET" is being detailed

fully as follows:

The letterhead memorandum was classified "SECRET"

to protect (MEX-18 and MEX-19 who are informants in Mexico (U]

furnishing highly sensitive information involving espionage

and information vital to the internal security.

States.

It is essential that the identities of these informants

be fully protected, especially since they are the only source.

which received the

information and MORA is not known to have

discussed the information in the letterhead memorandum with

anyone else. Under the circumstances, the protection of these

informants is of paramount interest to the continued operations

of the Bureau in Mexico, and for this reason the letterhead

memorandum was classified STORET.

(a his office will continue to direct EX-18 and

MEX-19 to vigorously pursue their proposed contact with MORA

and

the results will be promptly reported to the Bureau.

_3 -

SECRET

CONF

ENTIAR

DocId: 32165528

Page 4

---

