# docid-32287331

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10107

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-432

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/15/1962

2

SGI, CONTRACTED, CERONE, JACK, TO KILL, ESPOSITO,

FRANK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287331

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kenneiy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-41

_(REV. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmat

Mohr -

Callahan

Evans

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

URGENT

2-15-62

11:58 AM

EST

PS

JO DIRECTOR AND SAC CHICAGO

FROM SAC MIAMI

151511

ANTIRAO

EFRISERGMEETING OFLHOODLUNE, MIAÑI FLORIDA, FEBRUARY, 1962,

794-C ADVISED THE FOLLOWING IDENTIFICATIONS. THUS

FAR HAVE BEEN MADE CONCERNING GROUP OF INDIVIDUALS BLANNING

KILL FRANK ESPOSITE:

JACKE CERONE, WHO WAS GIVEN CONTRACT

BY GIANCANA;

DAVE Ma-ARAS,

MIAMI HOODLUM, FORMERLY OF CHICAGO;

FRANK "SKIPPY UNCERONE.

COUSIN OF JACK CERONE;

JAMES, "TURK"

ORELLO, OF CHICAGOS MEMBER OF SO CALLED NORTH AVENUE. STEÄK

HOUSE GANG, CHICAGO, WELL KNOWN CHICAGO THIEF AND HOODLUM;

PETE (INE), WHO HAS BEEN IN CONVERSATION WITH CG 6486-0*

THE PAST AND IS BELIEVED TO BE PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE FOR

CARRYING OUT OF GANGLAND SLAYINGS UNDER CONTRACT. HE IS

THE INDIVIDUAL WHO APPEARED BEFORE GIANCANA RECENTLY AND

COLLECTED SEVERAL THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR JOBS DONE IN PAST

SEVERAL MONTHS. MENTIONED AT THE TIME HE UTILIZED JOHN

"THE BUG" SCHIVARELLI IN SOME OF HIS JOBS NOW BELIEVED

POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT PETE (LNU) MAY BE AMERICO. "PETE"

VELPLETO, LEADER OF THE NORTH AVENUE STEAK. HOUSE GANG, WHOSE

GANG, WHO NOW OPERATES THE GUEST HOUSE LOUNGE, NEAR FRANKLIN

PARK, ILLINOIS. CHICAGO ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN PRESENT

WHEREABOUTS OF DIPIETO.

SUGGEST CONTACT WITH CG 6457-PC,

WHO IS USUALLY IN CONTACT WITH ROCKY INFELICE AT. THE GUEST

WHO CONTACT WITH OR GEFORE, REE NOTO SEARCA

SIGNIFICANCE

#* LAST NAME UNGNOWN!

62-

2. 2

ittin- u2-lilen

MR. BELLONT FOR TUE DIRECTOR

125 FED

23

?

432

LAR 1

1962'J

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32287331 Page 2

---

