# docid-32287522

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10197-10298

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-1290

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/12/1968

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, TRAVELED TO NY, APPEAR BEFORE UNSPECIFIED

HEARING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32287522

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Hote).

one want t. peniety Assassinatron

. DATE: 11-14-2017

nk

VIA TELETYPE

JUN1 2 1968

ENCIPHERED

colLection Act of 1992 144 USC 2102

Mr.

Tolson.

Mr. DeLauch

Mr. Mohr...

Mr. Bishop

Mr. CaSper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrag

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Mr.

Roser

Mr.

Sull (gan

Mr.

Tavel.

Mr.

Trotter

Tele, Room

Miss Holmes

10

Miss Gandy.

R-34

URGENT 6-12-68

TO DIREGIOR AND NEW YORK 2-2781

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM TAMPA

4-

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA, AR •

• ONE NINE IWO EIGHT - PC ADVISED TRAFFICANTE HAS BEEN IN NEW

YORK

CITY SINCE MAY TWENTYFIVE LAST AND WAS IN THAT LOCALITY AS LATE AS

JUNE TEN LAST • TRAFFICANTE APPARENTLY IN NYC TO APPEAR BEFORE AN

UNSPECIFIED HEARING, AND PLANS TO REMAIN FOR ANOTHER TWO WEEKS. FLORRA

STATE SENATE SUB COMMITTEE PROBING CRIME AND RACKETEERING CURRENTLY

HOLDING HEARINGS MIAMI FLORIDA AND TRAFFICANTE ONE OF INDIVIDUALS FOR

WHOM SUBPOENA ISSUED, BUT NOT SERVED • SOURCE STATES TRAFFICANTE REMAINING

IN NYC TO AVOID SERVICE OF SUBPOENA BUT UNABLE TO FURNISH COMPLETE

DETAILS AS TO WHERE TRAFFICANTE STAYING IN NYC •

TRAFFICANTE'S AITORNEY FRANK RAGANO WAS SERVED WITH SUBPOENA

AND APPEARED BEFORE COMMITTEE DURING LAST WEEK •

REd 15

9212781-1290

TELET POU

TU

HA JUN 14 1968

F93

DocId: 32287522

SJUN Z 1 1968

Page

---

