# docid-32320704

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection A6t of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note.

• DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10375-10362

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62C-HQ-1029205-795

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BAUGH

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

, DATE: 03/29/1995

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32320704

Page 1

155

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE,: +11-14-2017

371

3/29/95

Director:

The purpose of this note is to update you with respect

to the status of the latest transfer of FBI JFK assassination

documents to the National Archives and Records Administration

(NARA) and to inform you that Assassination Records Review Board

ARRB) Chairman John R. Tunnheim has been recommended for a

federal district court judgeship in Minnesota.

As you know, the latest transfer of JFK documents

consists of 10,228 pages of files on organized crime figures Sam

Giancana and Gus Alex that were reviewed by the House Select

Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) in the late 1970s. Those

documents were transferred to NARA last Thursday and

were

accompanied by 149 pages of documents from various FBI "core"

assassination files (e.g., that on Lee Harvey Oswald)

previously postponed information from the SOLO operation is being

disclosed for public release by NARA. The FBI's press release

(copy attached) regarding the transfer of these documents will be

issued tomorrow.

It is anticipated that there will be media interest in

both the soLo and the HSCA documents. The Press Office is

coordinating media matters relating to the documents with NARA

which plans to make all of the material available to the public

tomorrow.

In addition, following the issuance of our release,

the

ARRB will issue a press release (copy of a draft attached)

praising the FBI's disclosure of the SOLO information pursuant to

the JFK Records Act.

62C-+0-1029205-795

In another matter relating to the ARRB, we

learned this

week that Chairman John Tunnheim, whom you will recall meeting

along with other Board members in January of this year, has been

recommended by U.S. Senator Paul Wellstone for the above-

mentioned federal judgeship.

The ARRB is seeking to determine

what effect Mr. Tunnheim's confirmation for judgeship would have

on his position on the Board. As I have indicated previously,

Enclosures

1. - Mr. R. Bucknam, Room 7176

2 - Mr. Shapiro, Room 7427

(1 - Ms. Healy)

1 - Mr. J. Bucknam, Room 7176

1

- Miss Gawley, Room 7176

- 1 - Ms. Siford/Mrs. Leeper,

Room 717

1 - Mr. Bryant, Room 7110

1 - Mr. Esposito, Room 7116

2 - Mr. Collingwood, Room 7240

(1 - Mr. Carter)

1 - Mr. Baugh, Room 5829

1 - Mr. O'Connor, Room 6712

TTO: 1ag

DocId: 32320704 Page 2

---

