# docid-32323828

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90021-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-5704-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/24/1969

14

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

JOE CAMPISI

JOSEPH CAMPISI

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/17/1997

INDEFINITE

RPT

Docil: 32323828

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(44 USC 2107)

C

DL 92-339

... ...

called from the subject's telephone.

Will continue in an effort to identify J. DALE

EDWARDS, 6540 Westlake Road.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company,

Midland, Texas, was furnished by

CHARLES SUTTON, Business Manager.

Information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Houston, Texas, was furnished by

Information from the records of the South Central

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, New Orleans, Louisiana,

was furnished by Mrs. BARBARA BINGHAM, Secretary to the State

Security Manager.

It is noted that the investigative period of this

report overlaps that of the previous report and is due to

the fact that results of investigation by auxiliary offices

was not received in time to be included in that report.

The following investigation was conducted by the

Phoenix office:

PX. CS 804-C advised on 7/14/69 that telephone

number 948-2156 is not a working number and no information

concerning this number could be located.

T-1 1s PXC$ 804-C. : ;

T-2 is DL 135-C-TE contacted by SA WILLIAM B.

HOLLOMAN.

T-3 Is DL 369 - C contacted by SA C. JAMES FLEMING.

T-4 is ER583-C contacted by El Paso: Office on

7/15/69.,

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32323828

Page 2

---

