# docid-32290254

## Page 1

Released under the John F.. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD•NUMBER: 124-10205-10030

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-271

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/25/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, REL, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

y9.1

DocId: 32290254

273

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (4170SC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INvESTiGATION

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

OMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 2 5 1961

TE

SIMP

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoachC

Mr. Evans.

Mi. Malone

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

725-61

7-28 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/

GUS ALEX, AKAO, AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

EG FIVE NINE SEVEN THREE DASH E ADVISED THAT THE FORMER WIFE OF SUBJECI,

MARIANN RYAN, RECEIVED A VERY POOR FINANCIAL SETTLEMENT IN CONNECTION

WITH HER RECENT DIVORCE FROM THE SUBJECT AND THAT RECENTLY SHE WAS

QUOTE SOUNDING OFF UNQUOTE, ABOUT IT AND IN THIS INFORMANT/S OPINION;

SHE WILL SOON BE READY TO MAKE SOME STATEMENTS OF INTEREST CONCERNING

THE SUBJECT/S PAST ACTIVITIES. INFORMANT STATED THAT THE SUBJECT/S

FORMER WIFE IS NOW DATING DANNY MC MANN WHO IS CONNECTED WITH THE

ENTREE DASH NOUS SHOP. MC MANN IS NOT A LADY/S MAN BUT RYAN FEELS

SAFE WITH HIM. CG SIX FOUR FOUR FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT A SMALL AMOUNT

OF MONEY HAD BEEN RECEIVED FROM ALEX. AND FURNISHED TO MARIANN RYAN.

IT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH THE DIVORCE PROCEEDINGS AND WAS MERELY A CASH

SETTLEMENT BETWEEN THE TWO OF THEM. INFORMANT STATED THAT DANNY

MC MANN IS NOT A BOYFRIEND OF RYAN/S BUT IS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IS EMPLOYED

BY BRAMSON, INC., AS AN AGENT FOR OBTAINING MODELS FOR THEIR CLOTHES.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE, CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK FOR FIVE AND HOLD FOR TWO.

92-3182-271

8-32 PM OK FBI WA RAM RECD 5"."

REC- 98

22505

HOLDING

300

2116

• JUL 26 1966

58 JUL 281961

DocId: 32290254 Page 2

---

