# docid-32989751

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290-

SECTION &

Serial Scope:

HIW

492. THe 494 496, 497, 499 501, 502,503, 508,50,

509X1,510, 510X

5/0X2

5/2

514,515

524,524X1

528

531,532

534

5.3.6

539,540

5471547X

558

THRU

565

55063

DocId: 32989751

Page

572

ander she wear E. Kennedy baaagazrabber Rescada

=easter

=1-7:

-20-252-

---

## Page 2

d,

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMA

MICHARDSON PREYER, I. CA

SAMUEL L

VE, OHIO

YALTER 'E. FAINTION, DIC

STEWART B. MOKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE DHATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

MAHOLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT WY. EOGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

JINDARIE GOVARAHENNX

Souse

Select Committee on Assassimations

_EI.5. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 23, 1978

Roc. cou

3/29/18

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances

surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, ux., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation provide this Committee with the following docu-

ments relating to latent fingerprint examination:

1.

Copies pal anna a centives de laden

fingerprints examined during the course of the

MURKIN investigation.

2. All original transparent latent lifts, of value and

of no value, in the possession of FBI

Headquarters

or Field Offices, which were collected during the

course of the MURKIN investigation.

3.

Copies of all laboratory work sheets relating to

the above latent fingerprints.

4. A complete set of fingerprints and palm prints, if

available, for the

following individuals:

1)

James Wilbours

•Ashmore

DOB 3/28/28%.Témple, Texas

Ft.9602-111213-522

FBI #4869 529

2)

11 MAR 28 1978

3)

Anthony Charles DeCarvelho

Richard Dodd Wis fd

DOB 3/1/46

FBI #89 942E

".8?

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

= 1978

NW 55063

d: 32989751 Page 2

.!

---

## Page 3

=.

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 23, 1978

Page 2

4)

5)

Raul Esquivel

DOB 11/17/26, Belize, British Honduras

John P. Joyce

w/m deceased

Last known address:

730 North Parkway

Los Angeles, California

6)

Joel M. Levy

w/m

Year of Birth: 1936

7) Frank J. Liberto

.w/m

Memphis, Tennessee

8) Howard Limrick

DOB 10/10/24

• 9)

Marie Martin

JOB 10/7/32, Louisiana

IBI =110 913C

10)

Gus Joseph Prosch, Jr.

DOB 11/17/30

11).

James Earl Ray

DOB 3/10/28

12)

13)

Jerry William Ray

DOB 6/16/35

John Larry Ray

DOB• 2/14/31

• 14)

15)

16)

Randolph Erwin Rosenson

DOB 3/20/34, Louisiana

William A. Somersett

Year of Birth:

1903

Charles Joseph Stein

DOB 5/11/29, Louisiana

FBI #881 534 B

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 3

---

## Page 4

".

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

March 23, 1978

Page 3

17)

Rita Stein

DOB 3/4/38, Louisiana

FBI #881 534 B

18)

Jesse Benjamin Stoner

DOB 4/18/24

19)

Jerome Wallis Vernon

DOB 12/13/45 Texas

Your assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated.

Respectfully,

%. Robert Beälsey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

• GRB: sgd

/ cc:

Danny Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 4

---

## Page 5

3/29/78

1 - MI. Foster

MAILED 18

To:

SAC, Atlanta (170-290)

From: Director, FBI (62-117290)

OHOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ONL

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

MAR % y 1978

Assoc. Dira -

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. —

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp. =

Spec. Inv. _

Toch, Servs.=

Training-

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y=

WW 55061

Enclosed for Atlanta is one copy of waiver given by

JEK Act 6 (4)

to HSCA dated 3/13/78.

Per HSCA letter dated 3/13/78, request was made for

all files relating to [

the SCLC in Atlanta.

enclosed waiver from Harrison for his informant file.

In 3/23/78, the Committee was provided a cODY

Butile 134-11126, relating t

This release was coordinated with the Criminal Informant Unit,

Criminal Investigative Division.

The Committee has requested that the Atlanta

Field Office informant file also be provided.

Atlanta is requested to expeditiously provide FBI

Headquarters with a copy of informant file(s) for

JEK Act 6 (4)

JEK Act 6 (4)

Jand AT 134-389) to the attention of Congressional

Inguiry Unit, Records Management Division.

EX-10L

Enclosure

2 RECAD

62-117270-565

11 MAR 30 1978

1 - 134-11126

UNRECORDED COPYFILED IN

NOTE: HSCA ascertained that Harrison was Bureau informant and

obtained waiver from him for his informant file.

Gerald

Hamilton, HSCA, advised that the Committee also wanted a

copy of the Atlanta Field Office informant file for Harrison.

SA Jeff Jamar, Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal

Investigative Division

coordinated release of Bureau informant

file of

JJEK Act 6 (4)

Upon receipt of Atlanta informant file for Harrison,

it will be processed

under current guidelines and released to

the Committee.

i don or catas

TELETYPE UNIT D 1. 1-10-86

MAIL ROONS

DocId: 32889751

" Page 5

panaepice.

FBI/DOS

---

## Page 6

125

P

MAA

sil

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

UNCLAS

FM DIRECTOR {62-2272907

TO ATLANTA ROUTINE

LOS ANGELES ROUTINE

MEMPHIS ROUTINE

MARCH 29, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. Foster

I.:

UNCLAS

•HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAI; BUDED: APRIL 22+ 1978.

IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., THE HSCA HAS REQUESTED ACCESS TO FIELD

OFFICE FILES IN THE FOLLOWING INVESTIGATIONS: I ATLANTA-ENTIRE

SECURITY FILE CONCERNING MARTIN LUTHER KING JR., EAT FILE 100-55863.

2. MEMPHIS-ENTIRE SECURITY FILE CONCERNING KING 6700-47057, AND THE

ENTIRE SECURITY. FILE CONCERNING COMINFIL, SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP

CONFERENCE ESCLC] E157-1667. 3. LOS ANGELES-KING SECURITY FILE.

6700-572297, AND COMINFIL, SCLE £100-652417 BUT ONLY FOR THE PERIOD

JANUARY I I967, THROUGH JUNE 30, 196.

RECIPIENTS SHOULD FURNISH EETHQUANE oFFERFOGOPY OF DOCUMENTS IN

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Acm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Дай то ко

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _=

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso-

Ident. =

Intell..

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. _..

Plan. & Insp. -

MAR E! 19/

i.

DES 04072

3/29/18

TELETYPE 62-112290 - 564

EX 106

_REC:42

2 MAR 30 1978

Spec. Invent

Toch. Servi d

Training.

Public Affs. Off.=

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y=

55061

ArK 101978

MAIL ROOM I

DogId: 32989751 Page 6

TELETYPE UNIT La

FBI/DOS

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO UNCLAS

THE ABOVE FILES. IT WILL ONLY BE NECESSARY TO FURNISH A COPY OF THE FIRST

PAGE OF ANY SERIAL PREVIOUSLY SENT TO FBIHQ. ALL OTHER SERIALS IN THESE

FILES WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED TO FBIHQ SHOULD BE

REPRODUCED IN THEIR ENTIRETY. ITEMS WHICH CANNOT BE READILY PHOTOCOPIED.

SUCH AS PHOTOGRAPHS, MAGAZINES, OR OTHER BULKY ITEMS, SHOULD BE DESCRIBED

IN THE COVER AIRTEL SUBMITTING THE MATERIAL TO FBIHQ-

ALL MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ ATTENTION

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, BY APRIL 227

1978-

379

NOTE: By request dated 3-15-78, the HSCA, among other items, asked for

access to the Field Office files of Atlanta, Los Angeles, Memphis, and

Southern Christian Leadership Conference

On 3-28-78, HSCA Staff Member Michael

According to figures available at FBIHQ, the volume of

material involved in Atlanta is 80 Sections, 8,321 serials, and in

Memphis, 18 Sections, 516 serials. Figures for Los Angeles are not

available because only a portion of the files are being requested.

The entire King and SCLC files in Los Angeles consist of approximately

18 Sections, 1,750 serials.

Deadline is necessary since HSCA has requested expeditious

handling of all its requests.

NNNN

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 7

---

## Page 8

AI0877 08 12235Z

• RR HQ:

DE AT

R 222235Z MAR 78

FM ATLANTA (66-22°2) (RUC)

TO DIRECTÓR (62- 117298) ROUTINE

BT

CUNCLAiS

DIVISION

22 Не 78 гJ 793

RECEIYED

FEDERAL BUREAL

OF INVESTICATION

COHMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv._

Crim. Inv._

Ident.

Intell.

Plan. & risp.

Recavignt. HEr

Tech. servs.

Training

ATTENT ION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEME phonE RO

Director's Sec'y

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA); BUDED

MARCH 24, 1978

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA, BIRMINGHAM, CHICAGO,

LOS ANGELES, MEMPHIS, AND NEW ORLEANS, MARCH 21, 1978Sy0

REFERENCED TELETYPE ADVISED THAT IN CONNECTION WITH

CAPTIONED MATTER, THAT RECIPIENTS FURNISH THE IDENTITIES

OF CASE AGENT(S) IN THE UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA (UKA)

INVEST IGAT ION FOR THE PERIOD OF JANUARY, 1967 THROUGH

DECEMBER 31, 1968; ALSO IO FURNISH THE CURRENT STATUS

OF THE AGENT OR AGENTS AND THEIR LOCATION, IF KNOWN.

ATLANTA REVIEWED ITS FILE FOR THE UKA (157-193) AND

ALPHERCL

5825208174231

EX-101

RECAR: 62-112290-563

₴

AW: 20 1978

=У.

110-84

sa ==

58 AR 1 0 1978

WW 55061 DocId:32989751 Page 8

Spinacmake

''reten

---

## Page 9

Fr

PAGE-TWO

AT (66-2242

UNCLAS

NOTED THE FOLLOWING RELATIVE TO THE CASE AGENTS) IN

THE UKA INVESTIGATION DURING. THE PERIOD JANUARY, 1967 -

DECEMBER 31, 1968:

AS OF JANUARY 1, 1967, IO JULY 2D, 196.7 - FORMER

• SPECIAL AGENT RICHARD HAMILTON - RETIRED - CURRENTLY

RESIDES AT 5820 KAYRON DRIVE, NORTHEASI, ATLANTA, GEORGIA,

TELEPHONE NUMBER 404-255-2353.

JULY 2D, 1967., TO MARCH 8, 1968 - SPECIAL AGENT

JAMES J. ROSE, CURRENTLY ASSIGNED TO THE NEW YORK FBI

OFFICE.

MARCH 8, 1968, TO DECEMBER 9, 1968 - FORMER SPECIAL

AGENT RICHARD HAMILTON.

DECEMBER 9, 1968, IO DECEMBER 31, 1968 - FORMER

SPECIAL AGENT CARL E. CLAIBORNE, RETIRED, LAST KNOWN TO

BE RESIDING AT 7840 CEDAR CREST ROAD, KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE

379810

BT

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 9

---

## Page 10

LAO 341 08392357

RR HQ

DELA

R 240235Z MAR 78

FM LOS ANGELES (62-784 1)

C TO DIRECTOR (62-117299)

24 MAR78 08. 38Z

RECOYEL

(6) FEDAL 3UF.EAL

UF

Re

COMMUNIC, TIONS SECTION

ROUTINE

BT

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm._

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident,

Intol.

Lakers'ory

BEACON

Tech. Servs,

Training,

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

UNCLAS

AT TN: CONGRESSIDNAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENI DIVISION.

GOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) , BUDED MARCH

24, 1978.

540

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO ATLANTA DATED MARCH 21, 1978.

SA JOHN C. O'NEILL WAS ASSIGNED TO THE UNITED KLANS

OF AMERICA (UKA) MATTER IN LOS ANGELES IN JANUARY 1967.

THE MATTER WAS REASSIGNED TO SA ALBERT N. CARLBLOM IN JULY

4-1

1968. BOTH AGENTS HAVE SINCE RETIRED FROM THE BUREAU AND

" RESIDE IN THE GREATER LOS ANGELES AREA.

BT

Ritzee

EX.106

RECAZ

62-111 290-562

PS MAñ $0 1978

and i done bart in.

Spinacpake

8Y APR 1 01978

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751 Page 10

CC

---

## Page 11

н.

029

A-LNG

P

gle

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

EM DIRECTOR (62-117290)

MARCH 17, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: D. 0. Coulson

1 - Mr. Foster

TO ATLANTA

BT

ROUTINE

CLEAR

OHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA).

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE ASSASSINATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., STAFF MEMBERS OF THE ESCA HAVE REQUESTED

TO INTERVIEW SPECIAL, AGENT RICHARD D. RACKLEFE OF THE ATLANTA OFFICE.

THE COMMITTEE HAS ADVISED THAT AN ESTIMATED TIME FOR THE INTERVIEW

IS 30 MINUTES AND DESIRES INTERVIEW TAKE PLACE ON MONDAY, MARCH 20,

1978, IN ATLANTA. TWO HSCA INVESTICATORS, FLOYD REEVES AND ROBERT

WALKER, WILI, CONTACT RACKIEFE AT THE ATLANTA OFFICE ON MARCH 20, 1978,

TO ARRANGE FINAL, INTERVIEW DETAILS.

RACKLEFF HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND IS

AUZHORZED TO PARTICER ELY ESCA INTERNETO

WAS CONDUCTED TELEPHONICALLY ON MARCH 16, 1978.

FOREOWING INTERVIEW,

RA MAR 21 1978 ,

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.-

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers..

Ident. -

Intella.

Laboratory

Legal Cour. _

Plan. & Insp.-

Roc, Mgne.—

Spoc. Invo.

Toch, Servs, -

71978

Director's Secir t

NW 55061

TELETYPE UNIT E

DocId: 32989751 Page 11

SEE NOTE, PAGE. TWO&

120 1978

17552771°

I. 131-10-86

Do masce.

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 12

.

=

PAGE TWO (62-117290)

CLEAR

RACKLEFE SHOULD SUBMIT LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM CONTAINING BRIEF SUMMARY

OF INTERVIEW. FORWARD TO FBIHQ BY COVER AIRTEL, ATTENTION CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

BT

361357

NOTE: By letter dated 12-20-77, the HSCA requested interview of Rackleff:

Representatives of Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit and

Congressional Inquiry Unit have no objection to interview being conducted

in Atlanta, although all previous HSCA interviews of current employees

have been conducted at HSCA offices in Washington, D. C. SA D. 0.

Coulson of Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs Unit conducted.

briefing of Rackleff.

Teletype confirms telephone conversation

with Rackieff on 3-16-78, following clearance with ASAC Edmund J.:

Pistey on 3-15-78.

#.

SW 55061

DooId: 32989751

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Assistant Attorney General EEDERAL GOVERNMENK

Criminal DivisIon

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel

Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey,

Jr., requested copies of certain material in the files of

FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are the original and one copy of a

memorandum in response to the above request, and it is

reguested you give a copy of the enclosed memorandum to

HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

ATL TIT

add to bind.

D.121-10-8L

NOTE: ISCA representative to whom the material was delivered

Is. Gale Oppenberg.

i spinaspire

DE

....

2

ENCLOSURE

pc

EX-113

REC92 62-117290-560

2. MAR 20 1978

INTA

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

MAILED 14

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident.

MAR 3 - 1978

EBL

Intell.,

Laboratory -

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mgnt -

ife

Spec. Inv.

Tech.

Servs,-

Training -

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

59. 0R5

Director, s. Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

1978 BLETYPE UNIT E

55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 13

FLt7.52

me Courten

Rm 3658

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 14

1 - Mr. Foster

1

- Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ASCA)

Reference Is made to letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

asta, dated February 21, 1978, which, in connection with

ASGA'& Investigation into the

• the assassination of

requested copies of certain

the ASCA requested dellvery of information pertaining

to a speech by j. B. Stoner and copies of the "Thunderbolt,"

the monthly publication of the National States Rights Partys

for the months April through October, 1968.

This letter 1s to confirm that the above-mentioned

naterial pertaining to a speech by J. B- Stoner (FBI Head~

quarters file 157-97-122) was delivered to a representative

of the HSCA

on March 1, 1978.

Copies of the "thunderbolt,"

as mentioned above, were provided to a representative of

the HSCA on March 3, 1978.

This letter completes response to HSCA request

dated February 27, 1978.

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

3/3/78, captioned,

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

S. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

Assoc. Dire

Dep. AD Adha.

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.!

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv. →=

Fin. & Perso =

Ident. _

Intell.

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. _

Plon. & Insp. -

Reco Mgnt._

Spoc. Inv. -e

Toch. Servs. _

Training.

Public Affs. Off_

Teleghone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

WW 55061

•!"

AL TA TAM TED

binette proces pass

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989751

+62-117270-560

TELETYPE UNT ENGLOSURE

FBI/DOS

Page 14

---

## Page 15

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER. N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

WALTER I. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART 8. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE DRATHWAITE BUHKE, CALIFO

CHRISTOPHER S. DODO, CONY.

CHAIY

HARE

SCONE, NEDR.

SAWYER, MICH.

MAROLO E-FOEE, TENS

FLOTO J. FITHIAN, IND.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on sosassinations

U.5. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

FE8 & 7 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

washington, D.C.

20430

Dear Mr: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committèe

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI:, it is requested

that the FBI provide the Committee with a copy of the follow-

ing materials on an expedite basis:

1. Serial 122, Section 4, References on J. B. Stoner

2. Copies of the Thunderbolt monthly magazine for

April, May, June, July and October 1968.

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

8. Pobus Blahe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

C

CC:

Danny 0. Coulson

- GRB :mek

67-117-470-560

1N7"5503T Docta: 32989751 Page" 15"

---

## Page 16

Assistant Attorney General FEDERAT GOVERNAENY

Criminal Division

Attention: Mir. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

March 8, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

I - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel

Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

444

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

March 7, 1978, which, In connection with HSCA's Investigation

into the assassination of Hartin Luther King, Jr., requested

that certain documents

from FBI Headquarters files concerning

William Hugh Morris be delivered to the HSCA.

Enclosed äre original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above request.

It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA-

Enclosures

(2) 3u7a

Z

NOTE:

By letter dated 1/9/78, HSCA requested access to all

material in FBIH@ files concerning Morris, a former leader

of the Federated Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in Alabama.

By letter and memorandum dated 2/17/78, the HSCA was advised

that material concerning Morris was available for access at

FBIHQ.

on 3/7/78, the HSCA requested expeditious delivery of

the items listed in its request of 3/7/78.

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Adm. ==

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv. mu

Fin. & Pers. -

dent. _

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. =

Plan. & Insp. -

• Rec Mgnt. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.-

Training?

Publid

Telepho

Director's Sec'y-

NW

55061

R8636 2-22120-559

EX-110

!

RAS. MAR 21 1978

MAILED 1

MAR 8 - 1978

FBI

ALL INCITA! PAmATHED

Fi..

Di121-10.-84

Bian cit P

2 19 6h. 1218

CONCUE: MURYS

;.

"HAT ROOM

DoOId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT E

Page 16

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 17

7.

dad'

1 - Mr. Bailey

- Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 8, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey,

investigation into the assassination of martin luther

King, Jr., requested delivery of certain material from

FBI Headquarters

(FBIHQ) files concerning William Hugh Morris.

By letter from Mr. Blakey dated January 9, 1978, the

ISCA requested access to all information concerning Morris

in files of FBIHQ.

This materlal was prepared and, by

memorandum dated

February 17, 1978, the HSCA was advised.

This letter is to confirm that material requested

In the above HSCA letter of March 7, 1978, was delivered

to HSCA representative Gale Oppenberg on March 7, 1978,

at FBIHQ.

This letter completes response to referenced

HSCA request.

Quer me 7p

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

Criminal Division House Select Committee on Assassinations,

3/8/78, captioned

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA).

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adh.-

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inva -

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. =

Intoll..

Laboratory.

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.=

Roc Mgni. _

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

Diroctor's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

NIX

55061

DooId: 32989751

I.

Desn3l=10-816

29h 62-11290-559

TELETYPE UNIT D

ENCLOSURE

Page 17

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 18

RICHARD ON POET: N, N.C.

МОМ МАТОК КС слиї

CUMISTONHIN S. LIGH", CONN

MAROLO E. PORD, PEPilO

FLOYDJ.BITHIA8, 1475).

HODIRT H. SUGAH, TA.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO. CRIMPHDIS

in de, use. 1.1

"ri MAsT

CANIST

•'cries?!

•місті.

.$/?/18

(202) 223-4624

Steit Committee on Assassinations

Z.E. Mouse of Licuresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE DUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

• March 7, 1978

The Honorable Griffin 3. Bell

Attorney General. of the

United States

Department of Justice

washington, D. C.

20530

Attention:

lir. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, RooM 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Committee

into the death of Ds. Martin Luther King, JI., it is requested

that the FBI deliver to the Committee the following documents

•from the files already prepared for review by the Committee

pertaining to Hillian Hugh liorris:

1. HUA Hearings References: Activities of KKK,

.89th Congzess

2nd Session Part 4

a. p. 3398 - 10 page letter detailing MLK assassi-

nation offer for $25,000, planned attempt at

Antioch College pages 5397-3410

b. p. 3411 - Stephens

sigstimony Fis letter

c. P. 3433 - Reference to Morris involvement

with obtaining äynamite pagea 3431-3436

2: References - 187-168-106 CPripages, 1,2,5,6, 19,40

3.

BuFile 57-165-39: Office File 165-149

Reporting Office:

Atlanta

Title:

Federated

KKK Inc.

2/20/62 Report of

SA Carl Claiborne

(remark: by norris regarding ki ling of MLK)

4.

157-4390 (unrecord serial)dictate 157-4340-5@secinefices

Memo fIJm E. J. Baumgaraner to

consent +8219802

w. C. Sullivan, 2/10/66

on Mau. 71479 at 1 by his

AR. dializes 559

NW 55061 DooId: 32989751 Page 18

---

## Page 19

. "5.

157-3815-6 8/26/65 report from Cincinnati

(materials mentioning.occon to kill MLK)

CP+ pages E, F, 12,19, 25,31

It is requested that the foregoing materials be prepared

on an expedite basis.

It is further requested that the FBI provide the HSCA

a copy of any arrest record for william Hugh Morris as

as possible.

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly appre-

ciated.

Very truly yours:

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : mea

WW 55061

Doold: 32989751

Page 19

---

## Page 20

FEDERAL GOVERNENT

The Deputy Attorney General

- Mr. Long - Enc.

- Mr. Foster - Enc.

- Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2 - Mr. Coulson - Enc.

Karch 14, 1973

Director, FlI

HOUSD SELECE COLITTLE 02 ASSASSINNTICUE

In accordancd with Attornay General Orãer

116-56, this monorantum advices that Spocial Agont

Thomas j, Filson of the Cleveland Fiold CIsice was

Interviered on Fobiuary 24, 1978. A rarorandur setting

forth lit. Wilson's account of this intorvich is cnclosed

for your inforation.

Enclosure

913

-1:10084

ipamagance

1 - nosistant attorney General - Enclosure

Crininal Division

Atth: lohert Reuch

1 - Personnel file - Thomas J. Wilson - Enclosure

EX-ILA

MAILED 3

MAR 1 6 1978

FBI

62-117290

- 550

iN MAR

2 1973

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adma. Servs.

Crim. Inv..

Ident. =

Intell. =

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec. Mgnt. --

- DOC: 1dr

Tech. Servs. =

Training =

(10,))

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm

Treet?

Directors See Ea

MATE-ROOM

WW 550611 DocIa: 129421

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep..ADInv...m

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Ident,

Ihtell.

Laboratory

Logâl Cour

Plan. & Ingp

Rec Mgns

Tech. Servs.

Training

FBI/DOJ

Page

20

---

## Page 21

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Reuch

Director, FBI

MATTES GOVERNINE

2-13-78

1 - Mr.. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn:

Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference Is made to the letter to the Attorney Geperal from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Coutsel and Director,,

ESCA, dated 1-17-78,

which requested; in connection with the HSCA'S investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther King, JI.; access to certain information

in the files of FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum in

response to the above request.. It Is requested that you furnish a copy

of the enclosed memorandum to the ESCA.

Enclosures (2)

2 - ENCLÖSURE

ATI INFOTIATION! CONTAINED

LE IN IS UNCLAINTED

REG4562-112290-54118

14. MAR 2'8 1978 M

Dep. AD Adh.

Dep. AD Inv. _LITA: amo

Asst. Dir.:

(5)

Adm. Serv. m

Crim. Invo _

Fin, & Perso _

ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory _

Legal Coun. -

Plon. & insp. =

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv..

FEB

1973

SEE NOTE, PAGE THO

MR.

Rim 3658

NW

Telephone

Director's

55061

APR 12.1970

DocId: 32989751

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 22

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Item 2 of referenced HSCA letter was not interpreted as a request

for Field Office files from all our offices in California, but rather

for information reported to FBI Headquarters in the security investigation

of King. The HSCA's amended request of 1-30-78, covers the full period

of time desired in its request of 1-17-78.

- 2 =

NIN

55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 22

---

## Page 23

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

ALL IT"

PILD

. Аріпасті

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON LSSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF. REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

February 13, 1978

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney General from

Go. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated January 17,

1978, which requested, in connection with the SCA's Investigation into

the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI., access to certain Information

in the files of FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, this letter

requested material and information concerning the John Birch Society,

the American Independent Party, the George Wallace Campaign, and the

activities of Martin Luther King, Jr., in California during the period

1967 to 1968.

This nenorandum is to advise that material in response to Item

I of referenced letter regarding the John Birch Society and the American

Independent Party has been processed and is available for uscs review at

FBIHQ Where information is not available, it is either not retrievable

or is not being furnished pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

FBIHQ files contain no identifiable information concerning the George

Wallace Campaign.

With regard to Item 2, you were previously advised by FBI

memorandum dated January 18; 1978, that FBIHQ files pertaining to the

security investigation of Martin luther King, Jr, for the period

January: 1, 1967, to May I, 1968; were available for HSCA access at

These files also include results of the FBl's Investigation. of

King's activities in the State of California. By request dated January 30;.

1978, the HSCA expanded its earlier request for king security material

to include the periods October 1, 1962, to December 31, 1966, and from

May 1, 1968, to April 1, 1969:

This naterial. Is currently being processed

and upon completion the ISCA will be. advised.

This letter completes response to referenced ESCA letter.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Ach. -

Dep. AD Inv. —

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

Crim. Inv. -

ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Fin. & Pers.

Fats to HAdeD 813-1

Ident. -

Intell..

. NOTE:.

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Laboratory —

Division, Attention:

Legal Coun

Mr. Robert, In Keuch, dated 2-13-78, captioned

Plan. & Insp.

"House Select Committee on Assassinations, U: iS.' House of Representatives

Rec. Mgnt.-

(HSCA) . "

Spec. Iny.

Toch. Servs. —

Training

VIA: amo ami

Publie Affs. Off._

(5)

Telephono Rm. =3

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

TELETAPE UNIT O

62-117-290-5401X

ENCLOSURE

PWW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 23

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 24

LEIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIMMAN

RICHAMOSON PRETER, N.C.

SAMUEL L. E

WALTER I. FAUNTROY, D.G.

YVONNE DRATHWAITE DURKI, CALIP.

CHMISTOPHER 3. DOOD, CONN.

HAROLO E. FORO, TENN.

• 0H10

INNEY. CONN.

ONE. NEOR.

AWYER, MICH.

ROBERT W. LOGAR, FA.

(202) 225-4626

Select Committee on Essassinations

U.E. House of Ziepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

January 14, 1978

GRB: mkd

CC:

NW. 55061 DocId: 32989751

The Honorable Griffin B

Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

•Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House

Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr., it would be appreciated if you could

make available to the Committee staff access to the following:

1. All files, materials and information including,

but not limited to, intelligence and security

materials relating

to the following organiza-

tions active in California for 1967-1969:

a) John Birch Society

American Independent Party

George Wallace Campaign

2.

but nite i'mater

All files, materials and information, including,

out not limited to, intelligence, surveillance

and security materials for 1967-1968 pertainin

to DI: Martin Luther King, Jr: and his activi-

ties in California.

Your prompt attention to the request will be greatly

appreciated.

Danny 0. Coulson

Respectfully,

Mi Robut Slakey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-11/290-

ENCLOSURG

547X

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

FEDERAL GOVERNON?

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: D. O. Coulson)

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

February 13, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

(HSCA)

10317°

Reference is. made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 24, 1978, which requested information and copies of certain

material from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA's

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

with an attachment in partial response to the above request. It is

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum and

its attachment to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 4

62-117290

ITA GIT

(5)

62-117290-547

NOTE:

The HSCA requested

expeditious response concerning

sections 86 and 87 of the MURKIN file. Information con-

cerning Item 3 of referenced HSCA letter is being processed and

upon completion will be delivered to HSCA.

CNP

EB. MAR 28 1978

ENCLOSURI

1978

AM SIRA

Dep. AD Admi. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. →

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Pers. A

Ident.

Intell..

Laboratory =

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inve-

ech. S

raining APR L8 1979

Public Affs. Off

Telephone Rm.=

Director's See'y-

MAIL ROOM

W 55061 DOCTa: 2585151

-ITT, TY

Rm 365°

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 25

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 26

ATL. I'

did barbellattle

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: D. O. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

February 13, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (SCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

January 24, 1978, which requested information and copies of certain

material from FBI Headquarters files in connection with the HSCA*s

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.

In response to Item 1 of the above request, it is noted

that a copy of the composite drawing of "Ralph" was furnished to

HSCA staff member Robin Lindley on January 25, 1978. This com-

posite drawing appears in section 86, serial 6112, of the FBI's King

assassination investigation (MURKIN), rather than section 86,

serial 6068; as stated in referenced letter,

Enclosed is an attachment which contains one copy each

of sections 86 and 87 of FBI Headquarters file in the MURKIN inves-

tigation.

This is in response to Item 2 of referenced letter. Where

if quaters not oated, it is ither not retreatene withe

Memorandum of Understanding.

Regarding Item 3, information concerning Percy Foreman

is being processed and will be delivered to the HSCA upon completion.

With respect to Item 4, the following Agents were assigned

to Legal Attache Offices during the period 1967 - 1969: John Thomas

Assoc. Dir. = =

Minnich (deceased), London; Norman Walter Philcox, Paris; Moss Lee

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dép. AD Inv. -

Innes, Ottawa; Nathan L Ferris, Mexico City.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv. =-

Regarding Item 5, a review of pertinent records at FBI

Fin. & Perso _-

Headquarters disclosed no record that Frank Raval Legis, Martin

Ident. ==-

Bishop and Lee Leland are serving or have ever served as Special

Intell. —

L'aboratory ===

Agents of the FBI.

Legal Cour. --

Ento let Ale CD 9-13->8

Plan. & Insp. =

62-117290

Rec Mgnto m

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT

Tech. Servs.—=1

ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVI-

Training =

(5)

SION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I.

Public Affs. Off.=

KEUCH

Telephone Rm.

Director's Secy -

MAIL ROOM

GOLETYPE UNIT O

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

ENCLOSURE;

55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 26

2-117290-5457

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 27

House Select Committee on Assassinations

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)

For additional information of the Department of Justice

and the HSCA, in response to HSCA letter dated December 15,

1977, which requested dates of FBI electronic surveillance of

Martin Luther King, Jr., and the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference (SCIC), FBI memorandum dated January 26, 1978, was

submitted. This memorandum, page 3, disclosed that telephone

surveillance of the SCIC office in Atlanta was conducted from

November 8, 1963, to June 21, 1965. The correct dates of this

surveillance should be November 8, 1963, to June 21, 1966.

Enclosures - 2

NOTE:

See letter to the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L, Keuch, dated

2/13/78, captioned as above.

- 2 -

TE 4000000.

T0A5A:90989751

Page 27

---

## Page 28

€ 26

P-

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

FM DIRECTOR (62-117290)

TO ATLANTA

BIRMINGHAM

CHICAGO

LOS ANGELES

MEMPHIS

NEW ORLEANS

MARCH 21, 1978

1

-Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. D. O. COulsO*

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

(

BT

CLEAR

HOUSE. SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA).

.?

• =*

•...

• *I

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adh.=

Dep. AD Inv. --

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. inv..

Fin. & Perso.

Ident. =

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. =

Plan. & Insp. ==

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. —=:

Tech. Servs.-=

Training-

Publis Affs. Ofte

BUDED MARCH 24, [978.

IN CONNECTION WITH ITS INVESTIGATION INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE HSCA DESIRES TO

IDENTIFY AND POSSIBLY LATER INTERVIEW CASE AGENT(S) WHO

HANDLED INVESTIGATION OF THE UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA (UKA)

DURING 1967-1968 IN THE ABOVE OFFICES.

IN RESTONE

JIn THIS HSCA REQUEST,

RECIPIENTS FURNISH

REC-70

IDENTITIES OF CASE AGENT(S) IN UKA INVESTIGATION FOR PERIOD

2FIl

JTA :pfm

(6) SEE NOTE PAGE 3

Slli. d1

23. MAR 22 1978

=1250

EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATTOA

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 2 1978

FELETYPE

55061

1978

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32989751

Page 28

TELETYPE UNIT O

AlL INT

File du birdshi

DAI21-10-86

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 29

PAGE TIO CLEAR

JANUARY 1, 1967, THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 1968. INCLUDI

APPROXINATE TIE PERIODS IF HONE THAN ONE AGENT WAS

ASSICITED UKA CASE AHD CURRENT STATUS AID LOCATION OF

AGENT IF KNOWN .

SUBMIT RESULTS BY TELETYPE TO IBIHO ATTENTIONI:

CONGRESSIOAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MAITAGEMENT DIVISION,

BY MARCH 24, 1978.

2E

UNW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 29

---

## Page 30

PAGE THREE CLEAR

NOTE: HSCA Staff Attorney Peter Beeson Made above request

on March 20, 1978.

HSCA anticipates interviewing selected

Agents and;

following receipt of fleld responses, will

Identify in a written request those to be interviewed.

NM 55061. DocId: 32989751 Page 30

---

## Page 31

MAILED 17A

1..

EDERAL COVDRUNEXS

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 17, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn:

Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J.

Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ASCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General.

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, MSCA, dated

February 23, 1978, which requested, in connection

with the

HSCA's investigation into the assassination of Martin Iuther

King, JI., access to all information regarding James Hubert Posey,

Edward Redditt and Buford Posey®

In addition, the SCA requested

delivery of certain correspondence to J. Edgar Hoover; FD-302's

of Charles Joseph Stein, Rita Stein, and Marie Martin; and that

three FBI Special Agents be made available for interview.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above request.

It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2) / - ENCLOSURE

(5)

1:

62-117290

/

197

MAR 20

By memorandum dated March 9, 1978, the current offices

of assignment and/or last known addresses of Agents and former

Agents, listed in HSCA letter dated February 22, 1978, were

Set forth and approval was obtained to clear them from their

employment agreements

and

by

HSCA.

1I94

contact them regarding interview

REC16 62-117290-539

Arrangements for these interviews are handled

Assoc. Dir informally by representatives of the Legal Liasion and

Bp Congressional Affairs Unit and the congressional Inquiry it

AssiDi.: of FBI Headquarters.

11 MAR 21 1978

Additionally, all retrievable information requested in

in this asha tter was turned over to staff member Jim conzelian

Legal Coun. ==

Plan. & Insp. in

This letter and memorandum completes our response to

SeeM this request of the HSCA.

Spec. Inv. -

Tech, Servs. -=

ve

Training-==

Public Affs. Off.=

Tolephone Rm. _-

197L ROOM

DocId: 32989751

age

31

рапастке

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 32

38.

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Aten: Mr. Coulson

1 - Mr. G. J.

Foster

ATT TIT

PAT COMITED

March 17, 1978

DNIE 1-10-86.

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference Is made to the letter to the Attorney

General Irom G. Hobert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

ESCA, dated February 23, 1978, which requested, in connection

with

the HSCA's investigation Into the assassination of

Martin Luther King, Jr.

certain information In the files of

FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ). Specifically, this letter requested

access to all information on James Hubert Posey

Edward Redditt and Buford Posey.

In addition, the Committee requested delivery of

correspondence from Joel P. Keene to J. Edgar Hoover regarding

Martin Luther King, and all FD-302's In the Martin Luther King

assassination flle of Charles Joseph Stein, Rita Stein and

Marie Martin.

Lastly, the Committee requested that Special Agents

Earl E. Brown, Albert Rushing, and Howard C. Kennedy be made

available for interview.

This memorandum 1s to advise that the requested

Information on Edward Redditt was delivered to Mr. Jim Conzelman

of the HSCA on March 9, 1978.

A search revealed "no record"

for information on James Hubert Posey and Buford Posey.

As requested, contained in the documents delivered

to rir. Conzelman were four (4) Western Union telegrams addressed

This memorandum is also to confirm that the Agents

and former Agents. of the FBI, as listed In the above-mentioned

ASCA Letter,

have been cleared from their employment agreements

Assoc. Dir.-and are available for interview as needed by the HSCA.

Dep. ADAd Arrangements for Interview can be made through contact with rep-

Dep. ADy resentatives of the Legal Ilasion and Congressional Affairs

Adm, ser. Unit and the Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

Fin. & Perso -=

Where information is not provided, It is because it 18

unt. not retrievable or is not being furnished pursuant to the

Laboratory. - Memorandum of Understanding,

Legol Coun._

Plan. & Insp. 52-117290

Spec. Invo.

E3: PFp(5)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

Pubini. nORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

Director's Secy -

DIVISTON

WETTENTTON: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NIN

55061 DocId: 32989751

ENCLOSURE 6,2-117290-530

---

## Page 33

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. 'S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

NOTE:

see Director, FBI,.

letter to Assistant Attorney general,

Criminal Division, Attention:

Air. Robert I. Keuch, dated

March 17, 1978, captioned as above.

(2)

INEV

Ine 32989751

Page 33

---

## Page 34

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

March 3s 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey dated January 26, 1978, which, in

connection with the HSCA's investigation into the assassination

OF marie at teadquart requested certain information

Enclosed ate an original and one copy of a memorandum

In partial response to the above request. It is requested that

you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

NOTE: Regarding Item 48, subfiles for the Jacksonville and

Miami Offices on the United Klans of America are being made

available to HSCA.

Also provided are files concerning the

United Knights. of the Ku Klux Klan, United Florida Ku Klux Klan,

and the Militant Knights of the Ku

Klux Klan, all of which were

active in Florida during the pertinent period requested by

the HSCA.

ZENCLOSURE

REG 46

EX-114.

62-117290-536

2 MAR 20 1978

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

AD Inv. =

dn. ServesT,

rim. Inv. _

• Fin. & Pers. -

Laboratory.

Legal Cour.

Plan. & Insp. _

Rec. Mgnt. _

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs

Training -

Public Affs

Telephone Rm

MAILED 14

35061

DocId: 32989751

MAR 3

2 - 1978,

ATL TVE:

1. 10-8.e

Spimacmake

W3P 32H010

CONCU:

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 34

outers

---

## Page 35

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 3, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMUITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

the assassination of Martin Luther King, Ji. (Murkit),

requested certain information Irom files of fBI. Headquarters

(BIHa• Specifically under fart 8, this letter listed

50 items concerning organizations and individuals of

interest to the HSCA.

regarding the following items has been processed and ls

available for HSCA access at FBIHQ. Where information 1s

furnished pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

Item 2 - Lester Lee, CrOss

Item 6 - Sidney Barnes.

ATIT"

Item 9 - Thomas Iarrants

Item 14 - Joseph Conforto

MATHIN

Dormagaze

Item 23 - Roy Emory Hargraves

Item 48 - Klan organizations of Jacksonville

and Mami, Florida, for the period

1966 through 1968

Other than references in the FBI's MURKIN

• investigation, no identiflable Information could be located

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Act. -

In FBIHQ files, Including the Identification Division,

¡Dep. AD Inv. -

concerning the below Individuals. These NURKIN references

Asst. Dir.:

•Adm. Serv. -

are avallable for MSCA access at FBIHQ.

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & Pers. -

Item 17 - Dr- Russell C. Hadley

Ident. -

Insoll. -

Laboratory -

Item 19 - Dr. Mark 0. Freeman

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp.-

ORIGINAL AND TWO SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Rec Mgnt. _=

Spec. Inv. -

DIVISION

ATTENTION:

MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Tech. Servse_

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.=

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

Telephöne Rm. -

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UN ENGLOSURE 62-117290-536.

55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 35

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 36

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal DlvisIon

Attention: fir. Robert I. Keuch

Iton 37 - Debbie Gold

Iter: 39 - Roverend Xavier Von Koss

Central files of FBIlla contain no identifiable

information concerning the following Individual.

Howeyer,

a record concerning this Individual was located in files

of the Identification Division of the FBI and this record

is avalablo for HSCA access at FBIHQ.

Iten 8 - Eddie Sopejack

Central files of FBIlIQ contain no identiflable

Information concerning the below listed Individuals. However,

records, which may be identical with these individuals, were

located

In the ICENtILICatIOn DIVISiON Of the DBI aNd are

avallable for HSCA access at FBIFQ.

Item 4 - Earnost Donnell

Item 21 - Roanay Artidson

Iten 22 - Tomas Reyes Lau

Item 24 - Raynond Ii. Murphy, also Inown as "Fido"

Iten 27 - Paul Ivon

Iter 30 - Pat Olson

Item 46 - Pamela DilIon

Illes of FBIll, Including records of the Identification

Division, contain no Identifiable Infornation concerning

the following Individuals.

Item T - "laxey Ted"

Item 10 - Samuel Caccanechi

Item 15 - Leonard Seott Delfonte

Item 26 - Roman Kohnke

-2-

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 36

---

## Page 37

Assistant Attorney Generel

Grininal Division

Attention: Hir. Robert I. Keuch

Item 29 - Fonald &. Hewitson

Iton, 32 = Ronald Donnino

Iten 36 - Illzabeth Ann De Rouen

Item 40 - Robert Harold Gray

Iton 41 - Robert Keeley

Iten 44 - Goorge lanum

Files of FBIHQ contain no identifiable Information

concerning the following Individual ond,

due to the lack of

Identifying data,

i soarch of records of the Identification

Division could not be conducted.

Itcn 38 - David GrOPOLY

With respeat to Item 50(b), The Sword, and Iten 50(d),

tho unito carella, no identifiable intormation within the poriod

of Esch Interest could bo located in files of FBIld.

The procossing of Information concernine the remaining

Items In the HSCA letter of Jenuary 26, 1978, is continuing

and the BecA will be advised upon Its completion.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

3/3/70, captioned

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

J. S. House of Representatives

(HSCA)."

-3-

MW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 37

---

## Page 38

to that se

ViALTEM L. BO9'PO"06,10.6.

ACNNE: S10X8.9, 81010, CHASHIRRI

SAMUEL I..

•. Oslo

89114t18

CIAOLLS TIRE

-. 818 1111.

1810109.54Y41, ACH.

16A00888. POHES 78918.

10rD 8. 110991,1:9.

+0089888.80510.89.

(203) 235-6558

Eclect Committee on Assassinations

Cla. House of Zicpresentaliues

S331 HOUSI: OFFICE DUILDING. GNNIX 2

WASHINGION, 12.C. 20515

January 26, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washingion, D. C. 20530

: Attention: Roberi: i. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal. Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with this Comnittee's investigation of

the circumstances surrounding the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther king, It., we would appreciate your assistance in

obtaining access to any files or records in the possession

of the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Federal Bureau

of investigation: relating to the individuals and organizations

noted below:

A. With respect to the Duty Enforcement Administration:

1)

Charles Jodoph stein

Date of Birth:

5/11/29

FBi Number:

881-534-B

B.

Born:

Residencc: New Orleans

With respect to the federal Bureau of Investigation:

3.)

rack Brown

Chattanooga, Tennessee

27

3)

Lester lee Cross

Date of Birth: 2/23/45

.S.N.:

JFK Act

6 (3)

2165 or 2155 Clarksdals

Memphis, Tennessee

Tuntcr Pitts O'Dell

Fooleans, Louisina

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 38

62-117290-336

---

## Page 39

+ Thc Honorabl

January 26,

lagò ?

Tiffin B. Bell

8

5)

Earnest Donnell.

Denham Springs, Louisiana

Robert Delugh, Noborne, Missouri

Head of the Minutemen organization

G)

Sidney Barnes

1378 East Riviera Drive

Mobile, Alabana (1968)

7)

Maxey Ted"

New Orleans, Louisiana

8)

Eddie Sopcjack'

Date of Birth: 8/14/29

FBI Number: 186-485A

9) Thomas Tarrants

10) Samuel Caccamechi

Menphis, 'rennessee

11)

Robert llood Strader

Lexington, Illinois

12)

Raynond Starns

King David Apartments, Apt. 1

2816 David Drive

Metalie, Louisiana (1968).

13)

Jerome Conforto

We Orleans, Louisiana

14)

joseph Conforto

New Orleans, Louisiana (now deceased)

15) Leonard Scott DelMonte

1229 North Bronson Street

Los Angeles, California

16) Allan 0. 'Phompson

Date of Birth:

12/25/13

17).

Dr. Russell C. Hadley

Date of Birth: 8/18/09

96 Moscow Road

Monto Rio, California

-..

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page. 39

---

## Page 40

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Fage

18)

James E. Morrison

Los Angeles, California

19) DE. Mark O. Freeman

Beverly Hills, California

20)

Charles Calvin Bookman

Date of Birth:

9/6/13

FBI Number: 892-355

21) Rodney Arviason

Date. of Birth:

1/19/23°

Post Office Box 2820

Long Beach, California

22)

23)

21)

• 25)

26)

27)

28)

Tomas Reyes Lau

Date of Birth: 10/5/23

2017 Lemoyne

Jos Angeles, California

ROY EmOrY Hargraves

til Mosite, california pause later, see leas

Raymond M. Murphy, aka "Fido"

Los Angeles, California

Lee Wilkinson

Los Angeles, California

Roman Kohnke

Los Angeles, California

Paul Lyon

Los Angeles, California

Jerj. Salkin

Los Angeles, California

29)

Ronald G. Hewitson

Garden Grove, California

• 30) Pat Olson•

Dite of Birth: 7/21/42

Quantico, Virginia

NW 55061 DocId:32989751

Page 40

---

## Page 41

w.i"Fiee

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 4

31)

32)

Robert Taylor, aka Bob Taylor.

Los Angeles, California

Ronald Dennino

aka Ronala Gerald Dennino

Inmate at California State Prison

at San Quentin

(1967 - 1968)

33)

34)

Richard Gonzales

Los Angeles, California

Roderic Burns Duff

Monrovia, California

1968 President of Los Angeles Chapter

of Citizens Council of America

35) R. J. Weiler

Jos Angeles, California

36)

Elizabeth Ann De Rouen

Date of Birth:

2/17/43

SSN:

JFK Act 6 (3)

Los Angeles, California

37)

Debbie Gold

Los Angeles, California

38)

39)

.10)

David Gregory

Buena Park, California

Rev. Xavier Von Koss

Hermora Beach, California

Robert Harold Gray

Los Angeles, California

11)

Robert: Keeley

Los Angeles, California

12)

William K. Shearer

ala Bill Sicarer

33.66 Palm

Lemmon Grove, Californic

43) • Robert Wallers

I's Angeles, California

NW 55061 , DocId: 32989751 Page -41

---

## Page 42

The lionorable Griffin B. Bell

January 26, 1978

Page 5

44)

15)

4G)

17)

48)

49)

50)

George Manum

Los Angeles, California

Robert J. Roe

Beverly Hills; California

Pamela Dillon

Los Angeles, California.

Frank Macullo

New Orleans, Louisiana

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

Ku Klux Klan for the cities of Jacksonville

and Miami, Florida for the period 1966.

through 1968.

Subfiles and/or investigative reports on

the following organizations for the period

1966 chrough 1968 for the cities of New

Orleans, Louisiana; Birmingham, Alabama;

• Memphis, Tennessee; Chicago, Illinois;

Atlanta, Geoigia; Los Angeles, California;

and the State of Mississippi:

a) Black Panthers

•b) Black Muslims

c.) American Nazi Party•

d) Student Nonviolent Coordinating Carmittee

Subfiles and/or investigative reports for

the period 1906 - 1968 for the following

organizations:

a) Liberty lobby.

b)

The sword

C)

The Fiery Cross

The White Camelia

e) The silver Dollar Group

Your prompt cooperation will be most appreciated.

Very truly yours,

Si Nobert Blabsen

c. Robert Blalicy

Chief Counsel and

Diractor

GRB3: msd

NW 55061 CĐöcId?3238875112ãg₴42

---

## Page 43

MEDERAL GOVERNIENT

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 1, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

nice so at a ton to the easing on otion

Martin Luther King, Jr., delivery of any financiai and/or

bank rècords related to the Ray family and their businesses

(Pepper Printing Company and Pepper Stationery Company).

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum,

with one attachment, in response to the above request. It is

requested that you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum

to the HSCA.

Enclosures (3)

200 T

sat

ENCLOSURE

2-

Assoc, Dir. -

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir::

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. -

Intell. _

Laboratory.

Legal Coun...

TWB: me lw

(5)

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec.Mgnt. c

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs. -

Training -

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

fairield

І комастка

MAILED 14

MAR 1 - 1978

FBI.

RECA 62-117290-6734

12 MAR 20 1978

SEE NOTE, PAGE, TVO

the

TELETYPE. UNIT

989751 "Pade ,43

Rom 365%6

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 44

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: The Committee reduested Information related to the

financial affairs of the Pay family contained in the BURKI

The Committee has previously been given access to

the Teadauarters MURKIN file, has been delivered the entire

emphis Field Office file, and has been fiven access

to all information rerarding Jerry and John L. Ray.

The Committee indicated that St. Louis conducted

an investigation into the Ray family's bank records. In

an effort to comply with their reauest, St. Louis reports

(Serials 3333 and 4760) were reviewed and pertinent information

extracted lor delivery to the committee.

This included all

information rerardino Carol and Albert Pepper..

A search for

information regardin? Pepper Printing Company

and Pender

Stationery Company revealed no recora.

It is not feasible to review the entire MURKIN

file or previous information already furnished the Committee.

They are being given only that information which was

reasonably segrerable.

-2=

MW 55061

DocId: 32909751

Page 44

---

## Page 45

-

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

March 1, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSÇA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

a the Futes Fa featvery of certain, ta letter

requested copies of any financial and/or bank records obtained

during the period 1967-1968 for the following:

1. James Earl Ray

2. Jerry Ray

3: dar

I. Ray

1TT, 5"9

readed

14/1-10.81

Carol Pepper

5. Albert Pepper

6. Pepper Printing Company

7. Pepper Stationery Company

In an effort to comply with the above: request of

the HSCA, a search was conducted on subjects four through

seven, listed above.

Thereafter, references were located

only on Carol and Albert Pepper.

With respect to the financial records of James Earl

Ray, as the Committee Is aware, the FBI conducted an extensive

Investigation in this area, and, as such, it 1s not possible

to segregate the requested Information without a review of

the King assassination file (MURKIN), which 1s not feasible

at this time.

The Committee has been given access to the

MURKIN file and has been delivered the Memphis Field Office

file, either of which would contain all of the requested

Information regarding Ray.

Assoc. Dir.-

Dep. AD Ach.-

Dep. AD Inv. _

With respect to request for information regarding

Asst. Dir.:

the financial records of Jerry Ray and John L. Ray, it shoula

Adn. Sor.— be noted that in response to HSCA request of March

Crim. Inv. -

9, 1977, the

Fin. & Pers. =

Committee was given access by our letter of June 30, 1977,

Intell. _

to all retrievable information, including financial records

Laboratory -

regarding the two Ray brothers.

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp.=

Rec. Mgnt. =

Spec. Inv. c=

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION

MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Tech. Servis._

Training -

Publie Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

TWB: meli (6)

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

NN 55061 DocId: 32989751

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

Page

TELETYPE UNIT DO ENGLOSURE (2-17298-534

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 46

HOUSE SPLECT COMITTILE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U,s. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

The ISCA letter of February 6, 1978, made reference

to the st. Louis Flold Office investigation regarding bank

records of the fay family. Two st. Louls reports dated

May 10, 1968,

and June 25, 1968 (Eurcau files 44-38861-3333

and 44-30361-4760), Nerc located and reviewed.

These two

roports contained all the information referred to above

regarding the Peppers and some of the iniormation regardine

verry and John l. nay. the pertinent pages of these two

reports have been processed and are attached. Included

in this attachrent is Information reparding

Ray's fathor,

Jorry Raynes, due

to the obvious interconnection of the

financial affairs of Raynes and Carol Pepper.

Where information

Is not provided, it 1s, as stated above, because the information

has already been furnished, is not retrlevable, or 13 not

being furnished

purguent to the llenorandun of Understanding,

Enclosure

or minal divist, Attention Robert an eutor da General,

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

3/1/72, captioned

"House Select Committee on Assassinations,

U. S. House of Representatives (HSCA)."

-200

• AW 55061

DocId: 32989751 Page 46

---

## Page 47

LOUIS STOKES,

RICHAROSON ORFYER, N.C.

WALTER EURNVIIAOY, D.C.

YVLANE PHATHIVAITE LURKE, CALF.

CHRISTONHER J. DODE, CONN.

MAÑOLD E. FODD, TENN.

• "*FASYD S. FITHIAN, IND

ROGERT N. EDGAR, PA.

DE

D. MC.

CHARLES TIONE, NESS.

HAROLE S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

T.E. Douse of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUS DING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

February 6, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United

States

Department of Justice

Washington, D..C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of DI. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been

learned that the St. Louis Fiela Otfice engaged in an effort

to secure bank records of the Ray family.

It is therefore

requested that the fBI provide this Committee with copies of

any financial and/or bank records obtained in the investiga-

tion of the following during the period 1967-1968:

1)

2)

James Earl Ray

Jerry Ray (brother)

3:)

4)

John I. Ray (brother)

Carol Pepper (sister)

5)

Albert Pepper (brother-in-law)

Pepper Printing Company

7) Pepper Stationery Company

respect to the Bureau's indexing system and compliance with

this request as stated (1.e. financial and/or bank records).

However, we solicit your earnest attempts in compliance with

this request.

sincerely,

A Rent Olsteg

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghđ

CC:

Danny Coulson

62-117290-534

ENCLOSURE

R 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 47

---

## Page 48

PAGE DI

ACTION ARA-14

MEXICO D3999

1U MAR 76 J1

LIMITED OFFICIAL

ust 4 z

RECEIVED IC

•COGNAL BUREAI

OF INYESTIGATION

COMHUNICATICYS SECTION

091648Z

FBB4 69

Assoc. Dir.

Asst. Dir.:

rim.

dent

Intell/

Laborator!

Legal Coin.

Plan, & lasp.

Rec. Mant.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

INFO

OCT - 01

ISO-DD

H-D1 INR.- 1D

FBIE- DO

1026 W

- 035427 1007417 / 14

R 091636Z MAR 78

FM AMEMBASSY MEXICO

TO SECSTATE WASHD C 8824

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE MEXICO @3999

House Cormitter in

EO 11652: N/ A

TAGS: OREP, MX

SUBJECT: CONGRESSIONAL TRAVEL

TEC1762-11222÷-532

2 MAR 15 1978

REF: (1) STATE 854921; (2) MEXICO $2955; AND PREVIOUS

1a I TOOK UP PERSONALLY WITH ATTORNEY GENERAL FLORES ON

MARCH 8 THE INTEREST OF REPRESENTATIVE STOKES AND CHIEF

COUNSEL BLA KE X

IN MEETING WITH MEXICAN AUTHORITIES IN

MAY 2012, 19780M

5

SMAR LIOTSE CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION INIO THE

NW CIRCUMSTANCES SURROUND ING TIE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN

---

## Page 49

: LUTHER KING, JR. THE ATTORNEY

GENERAL SAID THAT HE PER-

, SONALEY WOULD DEAL WITH THE QUESTION OF HIS SECRETARIAI'S

COOPERATION, INCLUDING CONTACTING THE MEXICAN

CITIZENS WHOM THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE GROUP WOULD WISH

TO INTERVIEW. HE ASKED THAT I SEND HIM THE NAMES OF

THESE PERSONS, TOGETHER WITH AS MUCH INFORMATION AS POSS-

IBLE ON WHAT OTHER LINES THE COMMITTEE REPRESENTATIVES

WOULD WISH TO PURSUE, IN ADVANCE OF THE ARRIVAL OF THE

INVESTIGATORS, POINTING OUT THAT THIS COURSE COULD SAVE

THE CODEL REPRESENTATIVES VALUABLE I IME.

2. AS SOON AS IHE COMMITTEE STAFF CAN PROVIDE IHIS IN-

FORMATION, I WILL SEND IT IO THE ATTORNEY GENERAL, WHO

I EXPECT WILL FOLLOW HIS USUAL PRACTICE OF PROMPT AND

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

LIMITED OFFICIAL

USE

PAGE D2

MEXICO 03999 0916487

HIGHLY COOPERATIVE RESPONSE.

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 49

LUCEY

---

## Page 50

MAILED. TE

FEDERAL GOVARUNS

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

March 17, 1978

1 - Mr. Bailey

1

- G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

I. S. HOUSE OF REPAIRA VES RECAS

199

Reference is made to the letters to the Attorney

an action to the Hate set dion to Sto coquested,

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., all files, material

and information relating to William Hugh Morris. On March 15,

1978, HSCA staff member Mark Spelser advised in an Atlanta

newspaper article dated February 7, 1978, WIlllam Hugh Morris

stated he was an FBI Informant at one time: Speiser requested

the FBI review the informant file for Morris and provide the

Committee with pertinent information.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

In response to the above request. It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

MAR 2 Ô 1978

62-117290

1

1: 1:10-849..

pinaspace

NOTE: On March 15, 1978, HSCA staff member Mark Speiser

orally advised William Hugh Morris had stated in an Atlanta

informant for the FBI.

steve made put the te austen ate be savor ent

for pertinent information.

Bufile 134-7461 was located and

reviewed.

Serial one (Mobile airtel to Bureau dated October 8,

1958), revealed Morris voluntarily appeared at Montgomery RA

and furnished information regarding J. B. Stoner; however,

hirtel reflects that it appeared to be a ploy by Morris to get

noney from the Bureau and that it was unlikely that Morris could

urnish information of value.

A notation appearing on the

Irtel reflects that the Bureau telephonically advise m

Mobile Office not to Initiate contact with Morris a 53

ENCLOSURE)

REC-56 62-1122

EX-114

E MAR 21 1978 .

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

'".

89751

Lage

50

---

## Page 51

• "HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

On March 15, 1978, Mobile telephonically advised that

their Informant file on Morris (134-187) contains four serials.

Only the Mobile airtel mentioned above contains any substantive

information furnished by Morris and the file was closed by

communication dated October 14, 1958, with the statement that

no consideration was being given to opening Morris as an

informant.

sased on the above review, serial 134-7461-1 was

¡eLiverea to the HSCA March 15, 1978.

Special Agent Marty V. Hale, Criminal Intormant Unit,

General Investigative Division, advised that release of serial

could be made.

---

1

RN 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 51

---

## Page 52

it on on

I - Mr. Bailey

1 - HI. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mi. Coulson

March 17, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Per HSCA requests dated January 9, 1978, and

March T, 1978, the HSCA requested access to all information

pertaining to William Hugh Morris. Pursuant to the Memorandum

of Understanding, this information was made available for the

HSCA by Director letters to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated February 17,

1978, and March 8, 1978.

Subsequent to making the releasable material regarding

Morris avallable, HSCA staff member Mark Spelser advised that

in an article in

the Atlanta Constitution dated February T,

1978, William Hugh Morris stated that he had been an intormant

for the FBI.

Mr. Spelser orally requested that the Informant

Iile of Morris be made available.

An Informant file relating to William Hugh Morris

located and reviewed.

A communication from the Mobile

Office of the FBI to FBI Headquarters dated October 8, 1958,

reflected Morris volunteered information to the FBI on one

ocassion but the possibility of him furnishing valuable Infor

mation was considered unlikely. A notation on this communication

reflected that the Bureau telephonically advised the Mobile

Office that contact with Morris should not be initiated.

Additionally, the Mobile Fleld Office informant file reflected

that, by communication dated October 14, 1958, no consideration

was being given to opening Morris as an informant.

Fir. Spelser

was advised of the above information and

he requested a copy of that communication.

On March 15, 1978,

a copy. of that communication was furnished to the HSCA.

Assoc. Dir. - 62-117290

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

•Asst. Dir.:

m (5)

Adm. Serv.

братарак.

Crim. Invo

Fin. & Pers. ORIGINAL, AND ONE SENI TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAI

deal. CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

Laboratory

Legal Cour. - NOTE:

See Director letter to ASsistant Attorney General

Plan. &Is Criminal DivisIon, Attention:

Rec Mgni. -

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

Spee. Inv. -

March 17, 1978, captioned as above.

Tech. Servs.-

Training -

+2-1172800531

, Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. —

fAS

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

ENCLOSURET

WW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page

52

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 53

: 1=

FEDERAT GOVERNHENI

Assistầnt Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Reuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

February 9, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

Reference is made to the letter, to the Attorney General fron

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ESCA, dated December 30,

1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's Investigation Into the assassina-

tion of Martin Luther King, JI., requested delivery of a copy of several

letters of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters-

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum with an

enclosure which contains material in response to the above request.

is requested that you furnish a copy of this memorandum and. its enclosure

to thé ESCA.

Enclosures (3)

ENCLOSURE

EX-111

i Amanie

RECES 62-117 290-528

18 MAR 15 1978

MAILED.5

FEB 9 1978

FBI

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Ach. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sery..

Crim. Inv..-

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. —

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc. Mgnt. =

Spac Inv. —

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm.

(5)

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

TELETYPE UNITE

Page 53

FAR

MR. CObISON

Ra 3658

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 54

..r

..

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Copies of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters were

apparently not sent to FBIHo during course of MURKIN investigation. The

#SCA based its request on review of Chicago Field Office files, copies

of which are at FBIHQ. The Chicago Office furnished by airtel datec

2-1-78, copies of all correspondence received by Fetters from Ray.

Fetters, of Newark, New Jersey, was corresponding with Ray, brother of

James Earl Ray,

during the MURKIN investigation.

- 2 -

ITw

55061

DocId:32989751

Page 54

---

## Page 55

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

February 9, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference 1s made to the letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated December 30,

1977, which, in connection with the ESCA's investigation into the

it one on with tho

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jt., requested delivery of a copy

of several letters of correspondence from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters.

A review of pertinent serials in the FBI's Investigation into

the assassination of Martin Luther Kings JI., (MURKIN) disclosed letters

were written from Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters on the following dates:

April 14, 1968 (seven pages); April 22, 1968 (four pages);

April 23, 1968 (one page); Apxil 28, 1968 (five pages);

May 10, 1968 (five pages); May 15, 1968. (two pages); and

May 18, 1968 (four pages).

SENSE

In response to the ábove HSCA request, enclosed is an attach-

ment.containing-one. copy of.each of the above-nine letters.

It should also be noted that Fetters received two other

letters from Ray. One letter was dated May 24, 1968, and the othex,

date not recorded in FBI files, was received by Fetters on June 3, 1968.

Appropriate files contain no indication that either of these letters was

furnished to the FBI.

Enclosute

_Вратасті"

Assoc. Dir. - ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

Dep. ADI. _ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv. =

NOTE: See Director, FBI

letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Fin. & Pers.

Division, Attention: Mb Robert 1: Keuch, dated 2-9-78, captioned

Ident. =

"House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Representatives

Intell. -

Laboratory -

(HSCA) . "

Legal Coun. -

"d""

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv.-

(5)

Tech. Servs.-

HB

62-117298-528

Training.

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNT ENCLOSUREl

NW 55061 DocId 32989751

Page 55

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 56

LOUIS STONES, OHiO, CHAIMIN

RICHARDSON FREYER, NG. " 11 MINUELL, DEVI!

HO

MALTER I. FAUNTAOY, D,C.

STEWART D.MO

YVONNE DRATHWAITE DURKE. CALIF.

CHARLES THONE

CHRISTOPHERS. DODD, CONY.

HAROLO Ei TORO.

TENN.

HAROLO S. SANYON, MICH.

OLOTO S. FITHIANTNO.

RODIRT W, EOGAN, PA.

P. CONN.

Aldilogis

/j.

23

JUSTICE

Reak

PROM

(302) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.5. House of liepresentatives

93J1 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 30 1977•

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attentión:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

Ah: 4073

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it has been

determined from a review of the Chicago fiela

office file

(No..44-1114) of the MURKIN investigation that the FBI is

in possession of several letters of correspondence from

Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters:

(See, for example, serials

office file.)

277, 3351145, 5t is equested that 7he than thield:

Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerry Ray

to Marjdrie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

very truly yours,

Cc: Danny 0. Coulson

12. Nobut Blakes

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and-PirectouSLE AFFAIRS

DEPERY EN PEN TESTICE

R

10

JAN $ 1978

GRB: mek

62-117290-5281

F2EZ71

•FEDERAL BU. OF INV!

NW 55061 DOSId; 3293975 Rage 565

---

## Page 57

COURS STOKES, OHIO, EMAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYEA, MC.

BAMUEL L. DIVINE, OHIO

HALTER I, HAUNTAOY, D.E.

ЗЕНАНТ О.МСКІ

BEY, CONA.

"VONNE BRATHWAITI BURKE, CALITI

KARLES THONE

¡HRISTOPHEM S, DODD, CONTE

ALATOLO S. BAWY

LAMOLO E. VORO, TENN.

Z0Y0 d. TITHIAN, INO.

IOBIRT W. LOGAMITA?

(202) 223-4824

3011SA

HOOY

stry

41

Sorlect Committze on Assassinations

• 8.5. Louse of Ziepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 3 0 1977

ALCANT

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. •20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

• Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney. General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Lather King, Jr., it has been

determined from a review of the Chicago fielá office file

(No.. 44-1114) of the MURKIN investigation that the FBI is

in possession of several letters of correspondence from

• Jerry Ray to Marjorie Fetters.

(See, for example, serials

271, 335, 496, 560, 574, 621, and. 637 in the Chicago field.

It is requested that the FBI furnish this

Committee with copies of all correspondence from Jerty Ray

to Marjörie Fetters.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

. Very truly yours,

CC:

GRB: mek

Danny 0. Coulson

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and. PirectUSLATiVE AFFNES

FEDERAL BUS OF INY

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

10

JAN & 1978

O.R.0.M..

9F

62-117290

=52.8

ENCLOSUREL

FEDERAL BU. OF INV

NW- 55061~DogId:32989751-Dage-57-

+44 54 4acaststiate 43455 565355589

"and conley and

---

## Page 58

JUDARAL GOVERNIER.

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 30, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

Rose and Dennis Nix:

Pose and Pen it on arah there depart, To peace tog

By letter to the Attorney General dated January 16, 1978,

Mr. Blakey requested that, since the Committee had delivered to the

FBI the written consent of Geppert to view all materials relating to

his informant relationship with the FBI, it was intended that the

request of December 30, 1977, include field office files concerning

Geppert.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above requests.

It is requested that you furnish a

copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA:

62-117290-524X1

Enclosures - 2.

3 i

a +2-117390-532

62-117290

1 - 170-5569

"EASLOSURE ATTACHED"

IT.X: MAR I5 1978

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.=

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers.

Idens.-

Intell. -

Laboratory ==

Legol Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. —

Rec. Mgnt. =

Spec. Inv. —=

Tech. Servs.=

Training;

(6)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

MAILED 10

FEB 2

AN INFORMATION TANGED.

HERFIN IS UNCLASSIFIED, COff

*DATE SWOR BYSPIESKIeSL

14 2248, 852 Song 1-10.706

3658

TELETYPE UNIT

MAY NEO

51 'Page 58

---

## Page 59

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE:

Attached to the yellow copy is a waiver from Geppert

authorizing HSCA access to files regarding his informant

relationship with the FBI. This waiver was delivered to the FBI by

the HSCA on 1/10/78.

According to Bureau file 170-5569, Geppert was opened as

a racial informant during 7/71 by the Springfield Office. He primarily

furnished a limited amount of information concerning White Hate

activities. He was closed in 9/71 after it was learned that he told

other members of the National States Rights Party that he had talked

to FBI Agents. A request by Springfield to reopen Geppert in 3/72

was refused by FBIHQ.

By teletype dated 1/19/78, Geppert's files in Springfield

were requested and by airtel dated 1/23/78 Springfield enclosed

pertinent files and references concerning Geppert.

In view of the nonsensitivity of information furnished by

Geppert, the short period of time he was operated as an informant,

and in view of the above-mentioned written authorization furnished

by him, it is believed that information in his field and Headquarters

informant files should be made available to the Committee. This.:

matter has been coordinated with SA M. V. Hale, Top Echelon and

Criminal Informant Unit, Criminal Investigation Division.

- 2 -

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 59

---

## Page 60

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General from

G.. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 30, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

information in FBI files concerning Richard Geppert, Terrence Lee

Rose and Dennis Nix.

By letter to the Attorney General dated January 16, 1978,

Mr. Blakey requested that, since the Committee had delivered to the

FBl the written consent of Geppert to view all materials relating to

his informant relationship with the FBI, it was intended that the

request of December 30, 1977, include field office files concerning

Geppert.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above requests has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at FBI Headquarters. Where information is not provided, it

is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or is not being

produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding.

14245882

62-117290

1 - 170-5569

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 8|1/ B2 BYSP.) GSK/RSK

225984

ORIGINAL, AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

2/2/78, captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S.

House of Representatives ' (HSCA)."

Assoc Disas

Dep. AD Adh.

Dep. AD Inv.=-

Assi. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. ==

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perse =

Ident. =

Intell.:

Laboratory

Legal Coun. =

Plan. & Insp. -

Speco Invo---

Tech. Servs. =

Training =

Publie Affs. Offen

Telephone Rm. =

Director's See'y-

MAIL ROOM |

55061 DooId: 32989751 Page 60

TELETYPE UNIT D

62-117290-524X1

ENGLOSURE 65-117290557

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 61

LOIS STOXES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, M.C.

SAMUEL L. DIVINÉ, ONIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.G.

STEWART B, MCKINNEY, CONN.

• YVONNE APATHIVAITE BURXE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE. NEGR

GHRISTOPHER 1, DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYEI, MICH.

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

TLOYD J, FITHIAN, IND.

RODERT IV. LOGAR. PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Biepresentatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 3 0 1977

CRIAl ISIV

LetteR TO ANG,

2/2/78

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

• United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI., It is

requested

that the Federal Bureau of Investigation provide the com-

mittee with any and all files, documents and/or other materials

on the following persons:

..

1. Richard Geppert®

DOB:

July 31, 1941

Address:

1340 Niedringhaus Avenue

Granite City, Illinois

• 2.

3.

Terrence Lee Rose

Address:

4641 Old Collinsville Road

Belleville, Illinois

Dennis Nix

wim

50: 40

Address:

st. Louis, Missouri whist

hie:

-

appreciat prompt attention to this matter will-be greatly

very truly yours;

NO 55061

GRB: sjk

CHocId Bansty 50. Pegalson

i2. Robert 32eb4

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

211757033

ENGLOSUR 62 - 117290-524 X1

---

## Page 62

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

•...

Page 62

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-52431

---

## Page 63

AUTHORIZATION

I hereby authorize the House Select Committee

on Assassinations to request and review any

and all reports, files, documents and vouchers

in the possession of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation which have been prepared and

maintained by the FBI as a result offconfi-

dential relationship with Special Agents of

the FBI. I have voluntarily revealed to

staff members of the Select Committee the ex-

tent and nature of my informant relationship

with the FBI.

12-28-71

Date

• Witness:

Michael The tardt

Michael Eberhardt

amas

Conrad Baetz

Stati Investigator

RECEIVEO

AFFAIR:

LIAISON+.

UN.

D.O-COULSON,

1n00 005

51

Page

63

---

## Page 64

%.

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch:

FEDERAL, COVERNAZA

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS®

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

334,356

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 13, 19%%, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., requested

access to all material or files at FBI Headquarters concerning the

Minutemen organization for the period 1966-1968 in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana and all'files concerning Reynard J.

Rochon.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above request. It is requested that you lurnish a

copy of the enclosed memórandum to the HsCA.

Enclosures - 2

62-117290

ENOLOSURE

*EC-65

62-117290-524

EX-1,10

41 MAR 15 1973

NOTE:

In response to this request, references and subfiles covet-

ing the states of Mississippi and Louisiana were processed

for the Committee. The main Minutemen file (62-107261), from

Section 44 to 98, was reviewed for investigative reports covering the

period 1966-1968. All reports of the office of origin, Kansas City,

Assoc. Dir.

reports originating in New Orleans and Jackson offices, and any

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv. -=

other report, a copy of which was sent to these offices, were

Asst: Dir.:

Adm. Sorr. -

processed for HSCA access.

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. _

Ident. _

Intell..

Laboratory _

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp. a

Rec Mgnt. _we

MAILED 17

1978

03

Вортасти:

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs._

FEB

Training-

14 B

Public Affs. Oif.-

MR. Coults!

Rm 3658

Died MAR 20M970

TELETYPE UNIT O

WW 5506€-DocId: 32982751

Page 64

4128,5

Mer

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 65

ZIT

1 - Mr. G. J. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Coulson)

February 2, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 13, 1977, which, in connection with the HSCA's investiga-

tion into the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI., requested

access to all material or files at FBI Headquarters concerning the

Minutemen organization for the period 1966-1968 in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana and all files concerning Reynard J.

Rochon.

On January 16, 1978, HSCA staff attorney Mark Speiser

agreed to limit review of the Minutemen file at FBI Headquarters to

subfiles of the offices covering the states of Louisiana and Mississippi,

and in the main file on the Minutemen, process only investigative

reports covering the period 1966 through 1968.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above request and its modification has been processed and is

available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters. Where information

is not provided, it is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters

files or is not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of

Understanding®

62-117290

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep. AD Acm. -

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso.

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory =

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp. =

Rec Mgnt.

Spec. Inv.

Tech. Servs.=

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.=

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM D

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, dated 2/2/78, captioned as above.

1ic-80

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 65

spinagnos

62-117290-5344

ENCLOSURE,

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 66

FOUNTROr. U.C.

LISTENINS.

DODO, COrN.

..OLO E, FOMS, TENN.

'SA"UEL L. DI

24110

1?Y. CONN.

CHARLES THON:,

rizur.

HANOLD 5. 5APYEN, MiCHt.

Select Committee in Aesassinations

(202) 225-6524

U.ã. Mouse ci Zepresentatues

3331 HOUSE OFFICE EUILDING. ANNEY. 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

VALLET

fliver

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney. General of the United States

Department of Justice

DROM

MAIL ROUN

washington, D. C.

20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I: Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room. 2113

DEC 14 11:29 AM

aired

Caven

See 16 u0n

Dear MI. Attorney, General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JỊ., it would be appreciated if our staff could

have access to the following files:

a) Any and all materials or files pertaining to

the organization known as the MINUTEMÈN for

the period 1966-1968 active in the states of

Mississippi and Louisiana.

c). Any records and files, excluding DA. records

requested in our letter of

November 8, 1977 on

DER

LETTER

aNdy

Reynard. J. Rochon

(1967 address)

2200 Oriole Street

7018 Dreux Street

•New Orleans, Louisiana

New Orleans, Louisiana

Your cooperation and prompt attention to this matter is

greatly appreciated.

sincerely,

G.

Robert Blakey

chief counsetyarnin

-FARS

. :

GRB.: ghe

CC: Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 66

62-117290-524

ENCLOSURE;

---

## Page 67

019--47-R87

p--i

TELETYPE

ROUTINE

CLEAR

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn! (

D. 0. Coulson)

1 - Mr. G.

J. Foster

3/14/78

FM DIRECTOR

TO JACKSON (ROUTINE)

BT

CLEAR

1st enemis

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., STAFF MEMBERS OF THE

HSCA HAVE REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW JAMES W. SAMMON OF THE JACKSON-

OFFICE, CURRENTLY UNDER TRANSTER IO JACKSONVILLE, SAMMON IS.

SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 1978, AT 2 RM.

AT THE COMMITTEE'S OFFICES IN WASHINGTON, D. C

SAMMON HAS BEEN RELEASED FROM HIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND

IS AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN HSCA INTERVIEW. HE SHOULD RE-

PORT TO FBIHQ ON THE DAY PRIOR TO SCHEDULED INTERVIEW. REPORT

TO ROOM 3658 OR 8988 FOR INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING INTERVIEW.

BT

REC-5 62-117222-515

EX-105

MAR 16 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident.-

Intell..

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp._

Rec. Mgni. _

Spec. Inv. =

Tech. Servs, -

Training -

Telephone Rm..

Director's See'y -

NW 55061

1 - Jacksonville

TA: 1fjlF

(5)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

• MAR 1 4 1978

Of 2309

TELETYPE

11H-3 14205

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

8 TAR 27 1978

MALL ROON L

Do 14432589761

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 67

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 68

i.

, are is

PAGE TWO CLEAR

NOTE:

By letter dated 2/28/78, _the HSCA requested inter-

view of Sammon. By Legal Counsel memorandum to the

Director dated 3/9/78,

approval was obtained for release

from employment agreement.

Jacksonville is being advised

since Sammon is under transfer to that office.

This tele-

type confirms telephone conversation with Sammon on 3/13/78

advising him of information concerning HSCA interview.

lan 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page

68

---

## Page 69

= **

ja.d

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L.. Keuch

Director, FBI

REDERAT COVERHA

February 9, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference te are an etter te he Atone desera from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA; dated January 4,

1978, which, in connection with the ASCA's investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther King. JI., requested access to information

in FBI Headquarters (FBIHQ) files concerning Gerold Frank.

4o fuse

Reference is also made. to the letter to the Attorney General

from Mr.. Blakey dated January 20, 1978, which requested delivery of

certain materials in the FBI's Investigation into the assassination of

Martin Luther King, JI., including the above information concerning

Frank.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum, with.

five enclosures, which contáin material from FBIHQ files in response to

the above requests. It is requested that you furnish a copy of the

enclosed memorandum/and its enclosures to the ESCA.

Enclosures (7) 3-ENCLOSURE

ST-130

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv.

LITA: amo

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

(5)

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers.

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. _

Spec. Inv. =

Tech. Servs.

Post hi tai AR 27 1978

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL-ROOM

NW 55061 DocIa: 82989751

MAILED 5

FEB 9 1978

FBI

DA 71-13-86 скрапаета

REG-4562-117 290-514

ITT MAR 15 1978

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 69

Mi. Outs!

31/55

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 70

.:?.

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

NOTE: Following review of information concerning Frank, the HSCA

requested delivery of that material and the other items named in the

letter of 1-20-78.

Discussions with Mr. Keuch, Department of Justice, representatives

of the Congressional Inquiry Unit, the Legal Liaison and Congressional

Affairs Unit, and the Intelligence Division concluded that, due to the

sensitivity involved; material involving the Legats should be restricted

to access only and, therefore, no delivery is being made.

'-2-

NN 55061 DOOIA 32989751

Page 70

---

## Page 71

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Coulson

February 9, 1978

HOUSE SELBOT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENIATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney General from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Directoy, HSCA, dated January 4,

1278, which, in connection with the ISCAs Investigation Inco the.

assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. requested access to Informa-

tion in FBI Heauquarters (FBIHQ) files concerning Gerold Frank.

Roférence is also nade to the letter to the Attorney General

from Mr. Blakey dated. January 20, 1978, which requested delivery of the

above-mentioned material concerning Frank; Serials 5653 through 5655 of

the Ring assassination file (MIRKIN); Seriale 5942 through 5946 of the

MURKIN file, tickler files of the Legal Attache Offices In London,

Ottava, Merdco City, and Paris; and Information, pertaining to William Bradford

Hule for the period 1968 to the present:

3 of the letter of January 20, 1913s attached are documents retrieved

from Files: of TSTEQ. Where Information has not been provided; it is not

retrievable fron FBIQ files of 1s not being furnished pursuant to the

Menorandun of Understanding.

Regarding Item 3, tickler files of the Legal Attache Office in

London, Ottawa, Mexico City, and Paris are not being delivered. 'However,

these files are available for asca access at Ibrio.

Enclosures (5)

3131-13.266

(блим дастх

Assoc. Dire -

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION,

Dep. AD Ad. _ ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. 'Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -=

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General, Criminal

Crim. Inv.

Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 2/9/78, captioned

Fin. & Pers..

"House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House of Répresentatives

Ident. -

Intell..

(HSCA). "

Laboratory =

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv..

Tech. Servs.=

Training.

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. -

Diréctor's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM D

TELETYPE UNIT O

NIN

55661V DocId: 32989751 Page 71

62-117290-514

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 72

MICHARDSON HALYER, NG.

"MALTA E. FAUNTROY, DE.

YVONNE SHATYWAITE, BURXE, 64L19

+798.9249.958

-

: 5174/A0,150.

SINUEL L. DEVINE, OHIO

STEWART 3. MCKINNEY, CONM

CHAMLES THONE.

fiCH.

(202) 225-48241

Meguin fry in ain

Gui to 12 topm

1918

HAND DELIVER

Seleci committee on

ascinations

1.5. House of Representatioes. :

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX-?

WASHINGTON: D.C. 20515

January 4, 1978

-The Honorable Griffin B.. Bell

Attorney:.general .of

F the united states

Department of Justice

Washington,. D. C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney. General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., it is re-

quested that the F.B.I. make available

to the Committee

access' to all F.B.I. materials, files, memoranda, airtels, and

miscellaneous items, including but not limited to any

con-

tained in the MURKIN File (44-38861), on or referring to the

following individual:

Gerold Frank - author

d.0.b. •8/2/1907

current address:

930 5th Avenue

New York, New York 10021'

It is requested that access to these materials be pro-

vided on a priority basis so that our initial review can be

• completed by January 16, 1978..

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

abus Slabe

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

CC:

Danny Coulson

62-1172905

514

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 72

ENCLOSURS]

---

## Page 73

"HARDION PREYER, 18.1

SAMUEL L. DIVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTHOY, D.C.

STIWART D. MC

YVONIE PRATAWAITE DUHKE, CATF--

CHAPLES THON

CHTISTOPHER 1, DOOS, SSHY.

HAMOLO S. 5

HAROLO E. FOND, TEMN.

FLOYOJ. FITH Y.IND.

ROD.RIW.LOGAR.FA.

CONt.

(202) 225-45244

wed. yue

24 %2:

e defaur

Select Committee on Asa Sshlations

U.D. House BE Ziepresertatiues

$331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

JAN 2 0 1978

HAND

DELIVER

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention:

Mr. • Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

• Dear Mr. Attorney General:

By letter dated January 4, 1977, this Committee

requested access to materials, files, memoranda and

miscellaneous items pertaining to Gerold Frank in

connection with the investigation into the death of Dr.

Martin Luther King, JX.

These materials (94-63917) have

been reviewed by the staff, and it would be appreciated,

if the materials could be prepared for delivery, along

with copies of the following additional items:

1)

Section 78

44-38861 - 5655

5654

5653

CLU

2:15p.m

1/25/15

2) Section 84

44-38861 - 5942

5943

5944

5945

5946

3)

The MURKIN-Legat tickler files for

a) London

b) Ottawa

c)

Mexico City

₫)

Paris

62-112280

ENCLOSURE

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

•Page 73

---

## Page 74

Page Tro

9H2 D.1978

Additionally, it is requested that the Bureau begin

to prepare for delivery all files, memoranda and miscellaneous.

items on William Bradford Huie for the years 1968 to the

present.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghi

CC:

Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061' DocId: 32989751. Page 74

---

## Page 75

OFFICIAL USE

PAGE B1

ORIGIN ARA- 14

STATE. 054921

QINFO OCI-Á1

ISO-DD. H-01

FEDERAT GOVERNMENT

3HAR78 18 23z

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU.

INEr-IN@ESTIBBI@t DD

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

/ 026 R

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv._

Lahra ory

Lena conn.

Plan, 2 Insp.

Rec. Mant.

Tech. Servs,

Trainin?

Public Afis. off.

Te'ephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

DRAFTED BY ARA/MEX: K. R. MCKUNE :MRG

APPROVED BY ARA/MEX :D. E. SIMCOX

H: A. SCHNEE

ARA/MEX:R. DUNN

INR/DDC/ OIL :W. KRUG

DESIRED DISTRIBUTION

FBI JOE LEO

-106249

D318167 / 43

P 031758Z MAR 78

FM SECSTATE WASHDC

TO AMEMBASSY MEXICO PRIORITY

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE STATE 254921

REC-T:

E. 0. 11652:

N/ A

62-112290-5122

11 MAR 14 1978

TAGS: OREP, MX

СОИСКЕСТІСИУГ

SUBJECI: CONGRESSIONAL TRAVEL

DELICE GE

BECE ON

REFS MEXICO 2319 AND PREVIOUS

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 75

---

## Page 76

•CONGRESSMAN STOKES HAS SENT THE DEPARIMENT A LETTER

I SHARPLY CRITICAL OF IIS EFFORTS IN RESPONSE TO REQUESTS

FOR ASSISTANCE BY THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINA-

TIONS. (COPY BEING POUCHED BY ARA/MEX).

2. AMBASSADOR LUCEY MET WITH MEMBERS OF THE SELECT

COMMITTEE DURING HIS STAY HERE, AND WILL FOLLOW UP ON HIS

RETURN TO MEXICO.

CHR I ST OPHER

LIMITED

OFFICIAL

USE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE D2

STATE

054921

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 76

---

## Page 77

MEDERAL OOVDRAHERI

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal DivisiOn

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

January 24, 1978

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMITIEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 5, 1977, which, In connection with the HSCA's

investigation into the assassination of Martin Luther King,

Jr., requested information concerning 17 listed Individuals

510,5 10x, 51081

520,571

By FBI letter and memorandum dated January 19, 1978,

you were advised that material in response to the above

request

was avallable for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters. Following

a review of this material on January 20, 1978, HSCA staff

дре

member Robin Lindley requested delivery of the material.

1s noted that the HSCA letter of December 5, 1977, requested

Immediate access and later delivery of the material.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum,

with seven enclosures, which contain material requested by the

HSCA in referenced letter.

It is requested that you furnish

a copy of the enclosed memorandum and its enclosures to the

HSCA.

Enclosures - 9

STAB REC45 62-117290-

50X2

1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

2

MAR 15 1978

JIA: 5a5 A

(5)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

A 550c. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. _

Ident..

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Spec. Inv. -

Toch. Servs-

Training

Publie Affs. Off._

Telephore Rm.

"Director'

55984

2 - ENCLOSURE

58 MAR 27

MAIL ROOM

а 32989751

Page

MALD TI

JAN 24

1978

,p'5

pRe

RZ0Y

TELETYPE UNIT D

ALL INFCRMATION CONTAINED

AEROIN IS UNCLASSIILD

DATEA - 13. РИ ВЕртастка

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 78

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: HSCA letter of 12/5/77. asked for immediate access and

later delivery.

The request concerns 17 individuals,

primarily in California, which were connected with our

investigation into the

king assassination,

Most of the material

concerns James W. Ashmore who was subject of Bureau files

26-142040, 95-36487, 76-18132 ạnd 87-60208..

73

---

## Page 79

-

1 - Mr. Foster

January 24, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMIITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

assassination of Martin Luther King,

Jr., requested information concerning 17 listed individuals:

BY FBI letter and memorandum dated January 19, 1978,

you were advised that material in response to the above request

was available for HSCA access at FBI Headquarters.

Following

a review of this material on January 20, 1978, HSCA staff

member Robin Iindley requested delivery of the material. It

Is noted that the HSCA letter of December 5, 1977, requested

immediate access and later delivery of the material.

In response to the above request, attached are seven

enclosures containing information retrieved from the files of

FBI Headquarters. Where Information 1s not provided, 1t 18

either not retrievable from Headquarters files or is

not being

produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

Enclosures 7

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Assoc. Dir. -

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney GeneraL,

Dep. ADAn. Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/24/78,

Asst. Dir.:

Dep. ADly. -captioned,

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

an. so._ Of Representatives (HSCA)."

Crim. Inv. —

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. -

Intell. -

Laboratory.

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec. Mgnt._

DATE1-13-86 ВКопастка.

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs.-

Troining -

Publie Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM D

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

62-117 290-51042

FBI/DOS

NW 55061 DooId:32969751 Page 79

---

## Page 80

"ALLS STOKES, ANIO, CHNIANA

SIMUiL

STEVIART

•DONNE D' THANITE DURNE, CALIF.

маного татоно, талм.

10:1. 51Ні,119.

: KINNEY, CONN.

HAROLD 5. SAWYEM, MICH.

(292) 225-4624

Affairs.

ONE. 7 2:30 pM 1979

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.&. House of dicpresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

• DEC 5 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

*20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert Li. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113•

Dear MI: Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther king, Jr., we would appreciate: (1) the complete

FBI Identification Division Criminal Records and (2) any

DOJ file references concerning the individuals mentioned

below.

We would appreciate immediate®

access to this infor-

mation and later delivery.

The information following each

name may be helpful in locating relevant files:

• Flikeia, Thomas M., aka Tom Flikeia,

• aka

T.M. Flikeid; male; white; FBI. # 5340 39D;

SSN 475-32-9225; 1968 address:

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood, California;

or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywood, California;

employed by: Hollywood Carpets,

2952 West

Pico Blva., Los Angeles, California (1967) .:.

Flikeld, Susan, aka susan Lee

Harris, aka Sue

Harris; female; white; dob: 4/12/42; 1968

IN tOAAGIOD

112y1o& (Enc-2)

1-OLA Ena)

address:

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood,

California, .or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywoo&,

California; arrested in Hollyrood, California

.. Or 4/27/67 and 5/15/67, FBI # 525 505 G.

Dennis, Dyrell, aka Darrell Dennis, aka "Jeri";

female; white; 1968 address: 435 W. Michigan.

Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; prior to that

address, she lived in Los Angeles, California.

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-510X2

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 80•

---

## Page 81

-2.

.. Bonelli, John R.; aka John R. Beffel, JX.i

male; white; dob: 5/12/32; 1968 address:.

175 North Orange Drive, Hollywood, Califor-

nia; 1967 address: 603

North New Hampshire

Avenue, Los Angeles, California; arrested.

In Los

• Angeles, California on 5/15/67.

(See our letter of November 3, 1977, $20)

Katzwinkel, Anita Louise; female; white; dob:

. 6/27/47; pob: Mendota, Illinois; 1968

addresses:

1727 North Garfield Place, Los

Angeles, California and 1831 North Gramercy,

Hollywood, California, or 1831 Gramercy. Place

Hollywood, California; 1967 address: 1535

North Serrano, Los Angeles, California."

Day, Ginger, aka Ginger Nance;

aka Ginger

Cunningham; female; white; 1967 address:

1535 North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Heller, David; male, white; 1968 work address:

Vegas Club, 5510 Hollywood Boulevard, LOS

Angeles, California.

3/28/28 TEMPLE, TEX (MAN 87)

Ashmore, James Wilbourne, aka J. C. Hardin;

FBI

#4869529.

Harrison, Anthony; male, blacki 1968 address:

2134

West View Street, Los Angeles, California.

Bennett, Louise Emily, aka Lou Tomeny; female;

white; 1968 address:

175 North Orange Drive,

Hollywood, California; arrested on 5/15/67. in

Los Angeles, California.

Stoddara, Allan Lee, aka "Oklahoma"

, aka

"Oklahombe"; male; white; 1968 work address:

5510 Hollywood Boulevard,, Los Angeles, Califor-

nia; originally from Enid, Oklahoma.

(see. our letter of November 3: 1977, 32)

IBIT

-727146G

• Vernon, Jerome Wallis, aka Jay Wallis Vernon;

male; white; dob:

12/14/35; 1968 adaress:

•-1246. Woodbury Court, Los Angeles, California,

and 14 New York Street, La Crescenta, California.

558N 553-46-5896

Fh1 #1H3, 22615.

• Stein, Charles Joseph, aka Charles Stein, aka

Charlie Stein; male; white; dob: 5/11/19;

FBI # 881 534

B.

(see our letter of November 3, 1977, '÷10)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page. 81

---

## Page 82

-3 -

Stein, Rita, aka Rita Denenno, aka Rita Rode,

aka, Rita Rosas; female; white; 1968 address:

5666 Franklin Avenue, Hollywood, California;

1977 address: 1104 Mary Poppins Street,

Gretna, Louisiana..

Martin, Marie, aka Myrial Tomaso, aka Marie

Deninno, aka Marie Martinello, aka Myralla

romaso,

aka Myrial Hayden, aka Mimi Thomaso,

aka Mimi Hayden, aka Mimi Tomaso, aka Myrial

C. Hayden Gretna, aka Marie Martin DeGrasse,

aka Marie DeGrasse, aka Marie Latimer; aka

• Mimi Latimer, aka-Myrial Latimer, aka Marie

Calloway, aka Marie Callaway; female; white.

dob: 10/7/32; arrested numerous times in

New Orleans and also. in Los Angeles, California.

Lee, Marie; female, white; 1968 address: 1429.

Burgundy, New Orleans, Louisiana, 2001 Clair

Ave., Gretna, Louisiana.

Loudenback, Donald; male, white; approximately

60 years old; 1968 address:

1755 Wilcox Street,

Los Angeles, California.

Your prompt attention to this request will be most

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Bhut Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny O. Couison

GRB: mkk

MW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 82

---

## Page 83

!

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Mr. Robert L.. Keuch

FEDERAL OOVEIRNABATA

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (#SCA)

January 19, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

Tom G. Robert Brakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 5, 1917, which, in connection with the HSCA's

Investigation Into the assassination of Mertin Luther King,

Jr., requested information concerning 17 listed individuals.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a menorandum

In response to the above request. It 1s requested you furnish

a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the ESCA.

Enclosures - 2

1. Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

JTA : sas

DES

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

REG45 62-117290-510*

2A MAR 16 1978

2 ENCIOSURY!

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. -

Roc Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. -

Tech, Servs. -

ster

Training -

Publie Affs. Off._

R507

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y

58 MARQ A 978 LETYPE UNIT O

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Pags

83

ATL INTOT INTO CONTAINED

DATELYON

1/20/78

3654 10 1.

delivery t

1..r

stRe

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 84

Assistant Attorney General

.Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

made of this

material at the present time. After review, the

donaldea can determine Me elvery sa necessary."

RAW SaDOR.

Do morada passereNe.

THE RA-

---

## Page 85

1 - Mr. Foster

January 19, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

• Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

December 5, 1977, Which, in connection with the HSCA's

Investigation Into the assassination of hartin Luther King,

Ir.; requested Information concerning 17 listed Individuals.

This letter 1s to advise that, in response to the

above request, all retrievable information in FBI Headquarters

files, Including Identification Division Criminal Records where

located, has been prepared for HSCA access at FBI Headguarters.

Where Information is not provided, it 1s either not retrievable

from Headquarters files or is not being produced pursuant to

the Memorandum of Understanding.

(5)

DEVISION, APTENETOR. ROSTA E. TUCH AGE ERA SENT ME OFFICE

OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/19/70,

captioned,

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

AssociDir.

of Representatives (HSCA)."

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD Invo i

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. =

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. =

Laboratory.

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp. =

Ina-

= 032

Six 1.

I. 21-13.906

NW

Spee. Inv. =-

Tech. Servs.==-

Training

Publie Affs. Offa=

Telephone Rm. —

Director's See'y-

55061

62-117290-510x

MAIL ROOM N

DocId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT. O

ENCLOSURE;

FBI/DOJ

Page 85

---

## Page 86

#*=-

LOUIS STOKES, ONIO, CHAIRS

RICHARDSO! MECYET, TEL:

SAMUFI

VINE. OHIO

HALTIN E, FRUATAOY, D.G.

STEVIAH

P'CKINNEY. CONN.

YVONNE DHATHWAITE DURKE, CALIF.

•CHAFILLS THO:E, MCEH.

CHHISTOPHER J. DOOD. COYY.

HARSLO I SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLO E. FOHO, TRIN.

FLOYD S. TITHIAL, INNO.

MODERT W. EDJAN, PA.

(202) 225-4524

Ultinger

Sclest Committee on Assassinations

TTS. Mouss of Lepresentatives

3338 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

DEC 5

1977

passional fifais

Xlea. 7 2:30 pM 197)

INW

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JX., we would appreciate: (1) the complete

FBI Identification Division Criminal Records and (2) any

. DOJ file references concerning the individuals mentioned

below.

We would appreciate immediate access to this infor

mation and later delivery.

.45.24

The information following eạch

name may be helpful in locating relevant files:

Flikeia, Thomas M., aka Tom Flikeid, aka

T.M. Flikeid; male; white; FBI # 5340 39D;

1831

Gramercy Place, Hollywood, California;

or L83l North Gramercy, Hollywood, California;

employed by: Hollywood 'Carpets, 2952 West

Piço Blva., Los Angeles, California (1967) ..

Flikeia, Susan, aka Susan Lée Harris, aka Sue

Harris; female; white; dob: 4/12/42; 1968

address: 1831 Gramercy Place, Hollywood,

California,.or 1831 North Gramercy, Hollywood,

extritolet

California; arrested in Hollyvood, California

0iz 4/27/67 and 5/15/67, FBI # 525 505 G.

LOLA CiNe)

Dennis, Dyell, aka Darrell Dennis, aka "Jeri",

remale; white; 1968 address: 435 W. Michigan

Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin; prior to that

iddress, she lived in Los Angeles, California.

+ 62-111290-5107

55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 86

---

## Page 87

= ?

-

Bonelli, John R.., aka John R. Beffel, Jr.;

male; white; dob: 5/12/32; 1968 address:

175 North Orange Drive, Hollywood, Califor-

nia; 1967 address: 603 North New Hampshire

Avenue, Los Angeles, California, arrested

to

in Los Angeles, California on 5/15/67.

(see our letter of November 3, 1977, $20)

Katzwinkel, Anita Louise; female; white; dob:

- 6/27/47; pọb: Mendota, Illinois; 1968

addresses:

1727 North Garfield Place, Los

Angeles, California and 1831 North Gramercy,

Hollywood, California, or 1831 Gramercy Pläce

Hollywood, California; 1967 address. 1535

North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Day, Ginger, aka Ginger Nance, aka Ginger

Cunningham; female; white; 1967 address:

1535 North Serrano, Los Angeles, California.

Heller, David; male, white; 1968 work address:

" Angeles, California.

3/28/28 TEMPLE, TEX. (MAIN87)

Ashmore; James Wilbourne, aka J. C. Hardin;

FBI # 4869529:

Harrison, Anthony; male, black; 1968 address:.

2134

West View Street, Los Angeles, California.

Bennett, Louise Emily, aka Lou Tomeny; female;

white; 1968 address: 175 North Orange Drive,.

HOLLywOOd, Calitornia, arrestea On 5/15/67 in

LoS Angeles, California.

Stoddara, Allan Lee, aka "Oklahoma"

: aka

"Oklahombe"; male; white; 1968 work address.:

5510 Hollywood Boulevard,: Los Angeles, Califor-

nia; originally from Enid, Oklahoma.

(See. our letter of November 3, 1977, $32)

M/M SSAN 441-44-7080

ÄBI # 727 146G

• Vernon, Jerome Wallis, aka Jay Wallis Vernon;

mile; white; dob:

12/14/35; 1968 adaress:

•-1246 Woodbury Court, Los Angeles, California,

and 14 New York Street, La Crescenta, Calitornia.

w/m-SSAN. 553-46-5406 FBI #743 226B

Stein, Charles Joseph, aka Charles Stein, aka

Charlie Stein; male; white; dob: 5/11/19;

FBI # 881 534 B.

• (See oux letter of November 3, 1977; #10)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 37

---

## Page 88

-3-

Stein, Rita, aka Rita Denenno, aka Rita Rode,

aka. Rita Rosas;: female; white; 1968 address:.

5666 Franklin Avenue, Hollywood,. California;

1917 address:

1104 Mary Poppins Street,

Gretna, Louisiana.

Martin, Marie, aka Myrial Tomaso, aka Marie

Deninno, aka Marie Martinéllo, aka Myralla

Tomaso,

aka Myrial Hayden, aka Mimi Thomaso,

aka Mimi Hayden, aka Mimi Tomaso, aka Myrial

C. Hayden Gretna, aka Marie Martin DeGrasse

aka Marie DeGrasse, aka Marie Latimer, 'aka.

Mimi Latimer, aka Myrial Latimer, aka Marie.

Calloway, aka Marie Callaway; female; white

dob: 20/7732;

10/7/32; arrested numerous times in'

New Orleans and also, in Los Angeles, California.

lee, Marie; female, white; 1968 address:

1429.

Burgundy, New Orleans, Louisiana, 2001 Clair

Ave., Gretna, Louisiana.

Loudenback, Donald; male, white; approximately

60. years. old; 1968 address: 1755 Wilcox Street,

Los Angeles, California.

Your prompt attention to this request will be most

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Bout Bleshy

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

cc: Danny 0. Coulson

• GRB: mkk

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 88

---

## Page 89

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

TORAL GOVAREN. January 19, 1978

1 - Mr. Foster

Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSNATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. (ESCA)

Reference As made to lotter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

NOVember 30, 1977, Which requested Information from fBI

Headquarters. files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

advising that material concerning Items 1 and 3 of the above

reguest has been processed and is available for HSCA access at

FBI headquarters. It is requested that you furnish a copy of

the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures - 2

різаі

1 - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

A STA, WaS

(5) 1f05

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

REC-56

ST-131

62-117290-578

2 MAR 15 1978

ATL I

DATE1-13.86

(IND

-EX

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _i

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers. -

2- ENCLOSURE

Laboratory =

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp. _E

Rec Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv. —

Tech. Servs._

Training -

Public Affs. Offen

Telephone, im..

Directo Secty -

IMAR TAB ROOST

I NW 55061

Docid: 32989757

XN

TELETYPE UNIT E

Fate 89

міликс

fowait te ih Couleen.

365Y for

delevery-

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 90

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Based on the time period of interest to the HSCA, only

Sections 63 through 83 of the King Security File have been

prepared for HSCA access.

All five sections of the Sanitation

Workers Strike file fall within the time period of interest to

the HSCA.

To date,

Congressional Inquiry Unit procedure has been

to remove classified information from material being prepared

for HSCA access and to make the classified material available

upon request only to HSCA stail members with appropriate security

clearance. Since most staff members now have their clearances

and the volume of classified serials Invoived in this request is

considerable, all classified information 1s being left in the

material processed for the HSCA.

will insure that only HSCA staff members with security clearances

will be granted access to these files.

*=

-.2 -

• NW 55061

Docid: 32989751 Page 90

---

## Page 91

January 19, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested information from FBI

Headquarters files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

assassination.

Among other Items, this letter specifically

requested the following:

(1) The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI., for the period January 1, 1967, through May 1, 1968.

(3) The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968, through May 1, 1968.

This memorandum 1s to advise that material in response

to the above items has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at FBI Headquarters.

man see procee

Where Information is not provided,

1t is either not retrievable from FBI Headquarters files or 1s

not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

By FBI memorandum dated November 1l, 1977, you were

advised that material in response to Items 2 and 5 of the request

of November 30, 1977, were completed. Processing of Item 4 is

being conducted and you will be advised upon its completion.

It should be noted that in preparing the above-mentioned

material,

because numerous documents involved are classified, no

removal

of classified documents was made.

Therefore, HSCA reVIeW

of this material should be restricted only to HSCA staff members

Assoc. Dir..

possessing security clearances.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep, AD Inv. JTA:rfw: sa's)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _i

Crim. Iny. -

Fin. & Perso -

Intell ORIGINAL

Intell..

AND

ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Laboratory DIVISION,

ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Lian. CouF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Rec Mgnto ei

Spec. Iny. -

...L. I

Tech. Servs ==

62-117290-510

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y-

55061 DocId 32989751

I: 1132-9840

эласрака

MAIL ROOM•M

TELETYPE UNIT

ENCLOSURE

Page 91

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 92

House Select Committee on Assassinations

NOTE: See Director,

• FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated 1/19/78,

captioned, "House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

of Representatives (HSCA.)."

= 2=

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 92•

---

## Page 93

LOUIS STONES, ONO SUNHUNT

SAUUELL..

1:.N1TF UURNE, CALIF.

•GiVIY, C04.%.

(011784E5 701345,16504.

MIRILOS.

E78,11151%.

02ЕНТ14. 80бАД.НА.

(202) 225-4523

Galect Committee vi

issinations

C1. E. House dê diepresentatioco

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEXZ

WASHINGTON, D.C. 23515

MON SO 1977

FOREIGED

.: Ais

Dẹc 1 4 06 FF 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the united States

Department of Justice

Washington, D..C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert I..Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI., it 'is requestea

that the FBI provide the Committee with following materials:

1. The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther King,

JI. for the period January 1, 1967 through May i,

1968.

2.

The main file on the Southern Christian. Leadership

Conference fox the period January 1, 1967 through

Mày 1, 1968.

3. The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968 through way 1, 1968.

4.

The file on Dr. Martin Luther King, JI./POOr People's

March for the period December 1, 1967 through Nay 1,

1968.

5.

all materials pertaining to tartin Luther King, JI.

and the SCiC in the COINIELPRO file.

,Inis lecter supercedes the earlier requests relative to

these files found in the Committee letters of November 3, 1977

and November 8, 1977.

Ii to AAGIOD

111917E (Ene-2)

JAirfu:sas

1- OLA (ENE

-NW-55061-DocId: 32989251 Page 93

62-117290-510

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 94

-2-

" Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

very truly yours,

82520651365

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director.

GRB = mea

CC

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 94

---

## Page 95

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Director, FBI

January 12, 1978

I - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

257

D: 131-13.86 BAlmem

Reference is made to the letter to ir. Robert Keuch,

Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, fron

Robert Blakey Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

This letter requested addresses of thirty

two FBI agents which the HSCA plans to interview in çon-

nection with its investigation concerning the assassination

of fartin luther King, JEro

By letter to the Attorney General from fir: Blakey,

dated November 8, 1977, the HSCA requested, among other 1tens,

that five FBI agents, two of whom were named in the letter of

October 7, 1977, be notified and made available for interview

by the SCA.

By letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey,

dated Novenber 9, 1977, the HSCA requested, among other Items,

that twelve FBI agents, ten of whom were named in the request

o1 october i, 1911, be made avallable for interview by the

risth on a priority

basis.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

in response to the above requests. It is noted that responses

to all other items in ISCA letters of November &, 1977, and

November 9, 1977, have been previously submitted. It is

requested you furnish a, copy of the enclosed memorandum to the

HSGA.

9T13U

Enclosures - 2

REC-4562-117290-50941

Assoc. Dir. I Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

Dep. AD Adh. -

Dep. AD Inv. JFA: SaS

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perse.

(6)

ENCLOSURE

Ident. -

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp. -

Spec. Inv. -

livered

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

delivered.

Ф

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

the

Public Affs. Off_

2 MAR 15 1978

55061

DocId: 329852T

IS 7 TELETYPE UNIT L

-Page 95

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 96

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

NOTE: Upon agreement with HSCA, the specific addresses requested

In the letter of 10/7/77, are not being provided.

Instead; we

are making these agents, all of whom have been released irom

their employment agreement

, available for interview as needed by

the Committee.

Arrangements are handled informally by

representatives of the Legal Liaison and Congressional Affairs

Unit and the Congressional Inquiry Unit of FBIHQ.

has worked satisfactorily ana to date fourteen of those agents

named, in these three requests have been Interviewed by the

Committee. Others are expected to follow in the near future.

This letter will complete our responses to the HSCA

letters

of 10/7/77, 11/8/77, and 11/9/77.

2

NW 55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 96

---

## Page 97

-

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

January 12, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to the letter to Mr. Robert Keuch,

Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, from

G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, ASCA, dated

October T, 1977.

This letter requested addresses of thirty-

two FBI agents which the HSCA plans to Interview in con-

nection with its investigation concerning the assassination

of Martin Luther King, Jr.

By letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey,

dated November 8, 1977, the HSCA requested, among other items,.

chat five ist agents, two of whom were named in the letter of

october To 1977, be notitled and made available for interview

by the ASCA.

By letter to the Attorney General from Mr. Blakey,

dated November 9, 1977, the ISCA requested, among other items,

that twelve FBI

agents, ten of whom were named in the request

of october T, 1911, be made available for interview by the

HSCA on a priority basis.

This memorandum is to confirm that to date all agents

named in the above letters have been located, have been cleared

fron their employment agreement, and can be made available for

Interview as needed by the HSCA. It should be noted that,

Assoc. Dir.

gUrA: sasgel(6)

Dep. AD AdORIGINAL

AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

•Dep. AD Inv.DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH, & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Asse, Dirs OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Adm. Serv..

Crim. Inv. NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

In a Pors. Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated 1/12/78,

In_captioned, "House Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

Laborary-Of Representatives (HSCA)."

Legal Cour. -

Plan. & Insp. =

Roc-Mgni_

Spec. Inv. -

Tech. Servs. =

Training -

the

вкуритасрии

Public Alls. Off.

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y =

MAIL ROOM

NW 55061 DooId: 32989751

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 97

mined adie

dr a per".

--13184.

ENCLOSURE

62-117290-50941

F$I/DOJ

---

## Page 98

House feloct Cormittee on Assassinations

additional agents named in the above letters, arrangerents can

be made through contact with representatives of the legal Ilalson

and Congressional Affairs Unft and the Congressional Inquiry Unit

of FBI Headquarters,

-------

=2-

• NW 55061 Docid: 32989751 Page 98

---

## Page 99

191641

p.9r.85N, 88.C.

a YVONNE

AIMINAIIE, LUNKE, CALIF.

(HN55004919-84330.COrN.

•ECOND STORES, ONIO, CHAINM

JAMUELI

•BERWANTL

•COLANLIST

HATOLOS.GA.

ALAMOLO I. POND, TUMM.

PLOYS J. FITNIAN,ID.

ROSINT H. IUDAR,FA.

110. 0I110

"SPINLY, CONH.

(202) 225-4621

Sortect Committee on Assassinations

E.o. House ci licpresentatives.

S331 MOUSEOYFICEHUILDING.ANNEX2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

October I, 1977

ilis:

Mi.

Robert, heuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. : 20530

Dear Mr.

Keuch:

Pursuant to our investigation into the assassination

• Luther king, Jo., it is the intention of this

Committee and

its staif to interview the following special

Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation:

Last Known Office

Name

Birmingham, Alabama

New Orleans, Louisiana,

1l1a178 End-a)

Chicago, Illinois

siton; Illinois

INCLOSURE

NW 55061

St.

Ionis,

Missouri

Doc

d: 32989751

Page 99

. Henry. A. Snow

• Stephen M. Callenãar

Thomas E. Duhadway

Pierce D. Fournier.

Hilliam F. Kusch.

Paul C. Hensel

James D. Hill

Thomas I. Colarelli

Patrick J. Collins, Jr

Phillip O. King

I. G. Shearer, Jr.

Robert Louis Wertman

Edward J. Carney

Rene Dumain

Ramon W. Stratton

Ray. Wickman

Robert Haines.

Joseph Benson

62-17290-50971

Harold Dobson

---

## Page 100

~ 2a

Last Known Office

Louisville, Kentucky

Name

Robert E. Peters

William R: Duncan

Bernard. C. Brown

Springfield, Illinois

William' Roberts, III

Atlanta,

Georgia

• Robert I. Kaas

• John E. Ogden

Alan G. Sentinella

Memphis, Ténnessee

Robert Jensen

Joe C. Hester

George J. Bonebrake

Washington, D.C.

Robert Frazier

Los Angeles, California

Leroy W. Sheets

Theodore j. A'Hearn

It is requested that the federal Bureau of Investigation :

provide the Conmittee with current addresses fox the above

listed individuals.

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

Sri lobed Blsbey

G.

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

MCE : GRB: ek

CC:

fir..

Danny 0. Coulson

NW 55061- DocId: 32989751

Page 100

---

## Page 101

NOV 8. 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Deil

Sttorney General of the United States.

Depariment of Justico

- q.

Washington, D. C.

20530.

Attention: Hit. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant. Attorney General.

CaRinal DiViSiOn. Room 2113.

to ti.on.

Dear Mi. Attorney Gencral:.:.

In connection with the invostigation of the Select

Commistee on Assassinatione into the death.of or. Martin

Inther king, jr., a conference was held on Hovember 7, 1977

batween employces of the FBi and members of the Cormittse

staff to discuss the Comnittee's Novenber 3, 1977 letter.

of request for FBI materials on thirty-five individuals or.

organizations. As a result of this necting, the folloring..

Brit

(a) The FBi would process the following numered.

requests as thoy were originally stated in the novender 3id.....

leiter:

2, 4, 5: 7x: 2-126-13-24, 26, 23-33.and:35.

(b) The committee voula provide dates of births on the.

DoNE individuals in roquosts ros. Lu azd 27 before the rei would

procoss these names.

the dob on Roberts. forers, (request

110. 12) 15 8/5/24.

The aob on Roverend jesse Jacison. (request

• 10.

27) IS 10/8/41.

' . ...

-."-

(c)

Besides prodiding the complete file on request no. 3

IT. 111Jesse B. Stonell, the fBi would also male availaule the nost

appropraate case archts in iho office of origin assigned t

sioner. for the period 1908 thoough 1963.

natoriale in its fiied at headquarters fo: 4967 d

as wall as make available the apecontiate cure aacnt(r) ir wa

prico ui mirin ior ilie

sane

Cordon.

" ENCLOSURE

62-117-290-50941

NW 55061• DocId: 32989751 Page 101 •

...

---

## Page 102

DUNE

(a) With sospect to somast 10. 6, the Committce rould

holi in abeyance such & icqueat until the FBI provides &

list of the most appropriate case agont(s) in the offices

of origán for the several. Klan organirations in existence.

In 2967 and 1958.

(while

such was noc part of the under

standing reached at the tine of the mecring with fbI officials.

che commatec wouldiscousce

corover that all natorials relaced.

to the unitea alan of Americals

Aror the perzod 1965 and 1266

be made roady foi inapection by lovenber 20; 1977.).

avise the contess so to lie identity of other altion me eute

(f) With cespect to request no. 8, the fBI woula sirst ares was

porting o2 the rhite Citizens Council beiore a determinntion hl:

oc made as to the final content of this request. @gato 1426658

(g) With respoot to request no. 25, the Committce vill

the most appropriaie case agent(s) for. the period in questio..

(h)

Wath respeci to Icquast no. 34, the Comnitice

Dort requosts that only the thirteen "death threat" filos on De:

King be processed

it this. tine, while a reguost for all other

materials is held in abeyance until the fBi makes available.

the most appropriate case. agents): : ...

'...:...

In addition, the Commitiee would aiso request that the

, following agents be notified and mace availabic by the FaI:

(1)

Special Agant Milliame. Kusch - New Orieans

special lyont thomas El Duhadray New Orleans

(2)

Special Aacht Jack B. Simpson - Hemphis Artarin (acrive)

Specal Agent Richard 1. Davis - Mamhis Arlirt GreGo)

Special Agon Jack 1. Reversioin SHemphis ATLAy DATES

4049-698-8889

As a priority iten,

15.al50 requesied that the FRI.

Did,

provide the Commitice with the work or personnel records of the

folloring. three Louisville fis agents for the month of soptenber

1965:

(1) Robert Peters!

• (2) Pilldam Duncan

….r-?

(3) Bernard Bron

Me are primrily jibrangted da chose recordo sefinstina ti

• mad? 0 00 00j .00

Would ilso ask that ail three of the above-rentioned Jonioviir

agenic be made arailable fos intosvion by the sanc date.

WW 55061• DocId: 32989751 Page 102

---

## Page 103

Your prompt attention to

those matters will ba

greatLy appreciaica.

.... .......

Very truly yours,

Go Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : mea

CC

Ni.

Danny O. Coulson.

NW 55061 •DocId:32989751

Rage

103

---

## Page 104

1. 06.

nos. coms.

+60438.9159195.10.

посыт те. восям, аа.

CHANL

MANCLO

(802) 225-4888

Foclect Committee on Assassinationg

€.8. Mouse of Brepresentatives

2391 HOUSE: OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEXI

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20515

NOV 9

1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

".."

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Deax Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Select

Committee on Assassinations into the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, JI., it is requested that the FBI provide the

following materials by November 20, 1977:

Ao.

LET 11/17

1.

The sub-files of investigative reports from Louisville,

Kentucky on the United Klan of America for the years 1965

and 2966.

All docunents and investigative reports on the Louis-

Drill ville-based Independent Klan for the years 1965 and 1966.

DONE B.

In addition it is requested that the following materials

be prepared (but are not needed by November 20, 1977):

12114

OSIVE

1. Sub-files or investigative reports on the United

Klan of America for the period 1967 and 1968 for the

following cities:

a) v Birmingham, Alabama 4

¿'Atlanta, Georgia

Memphis, Tennessee

28

13l't

a)

e)

f)

st. Louis, Missouri

Ner Orleans, Louisiana 33

iLos Angeles, California 26

Louisville,

Kentucky

2?

DONE

•LET 11/17.

:: 62417290-50941

MW 55063

DocId:32989751

Page 104

---

## Page 105

mal tisan

- 2..

Dorie

Dort

All documents and investigative reports for any other

Klan organization with offices in any of the cities listed

ii paragraph (B) (1) above for the period 1967 and 1968.

(the acquests

formulated in Paragraphs d'and B above

modify and replace request

lettor of November 3, 1977). •

no. §fin the Committee's

and (2) 118177

In addition, based on further discussions between the

Committee staff and members of the FBI and a review of an

FBI inventory of files pertaining to Dr. King, request no:

34 in the same Conmittee letter of November '3, 1977 is

nodified to the foilowing extent:

l. It is requested that the FBI not prepare the main

security file on Dr. king for inspection by the Com-

mittce until the Committee first has the opportunity

to speak with the most appropriate case

agent (s) in the

office of origin for the period 1967 and 1968.

It is

requested that any such agent be made available by

November 30, 1977.

2. Of the remaining volumes on dr. king, it is requested

that the FBI prepare for

inspection by the Comnittee

those twenty-seven files indicated by stafí Counsel

Michael Eberhardi in his conference with the FBI

017

November 8, 1977. (In addition, it is requested

"that

the FBI. Check the nature of the

six volumes appearing

on the inventory which are on microfilm.)

With respect to

the Committee letter of October 1, 1977

reguesting interviews with vasious FBI agents, the folloving

list of agents represented those who should be made avaii-

able by the FBi on a priority basis:

I. Thomas Duhadway

2. William Kusch

3:

Thomas Colarelli

4.

Patrick J. Collins, Ji. 1

5.

Rene Dumain

6.

kamon Stratton

7.

Robert Haines

8.

Joe C.

hester

Georre

i. Roncbraker

3.0.

Robott Frazier

4y185

LN: 55061

6: 39989751

Page 105

---

## Page 106

- 3-

The Committee is ready to intorview these agents on

an immediate basis:

In addition to the ten priority agents listod above,

the following two agents, not previously: requested, should

also be included on'a priority basas:

I..

2.

Robert F. Boyle - Nemphis

Harvey E. Glyfe - Memphis

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Doteit Blocking

G. Robert Blakey

Chief. Counsel. and Director

,CC:

Mi. Danny O. Coulson

GRB : mek

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 106

---

## Page 107

..

start

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: It. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

MOCKLE COVERNEAT.

January 11, 1978

In Mr, Bassett

I Mr Pyarr

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

1= Legal Counsel

HOUSE SELECI COIMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. FOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

33?

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney deneral

Iron &. Robert Blakey, thiet counsel and Director, AsCA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested Information from FBI

Headquarters files in the investigation of Martin Iuther King's

assassination.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandum

advising that material concerning Items 2 and 5 of the above

request has been processed and 1s avatlable for liSCA access atl

FBI Headquarters. It is requested that you furnish a copy of

the enclosed memorandum to the ESCA.

Enclosures - 2

I - Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

(9) 200

ALTH

L. 1-115-05e

lad did dirtain.

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adh. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst.. Dir.:,

Adm. Serv. —

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Perso -

Ident. —

Intell..

Laboratory _

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. =

Rec Mgni. =

Spec. Inv. _m

Tech. Servs..

Training -

Public Affs. Off.-

" clophgne/Re

gp

ENCLOSURE

NIW

55061

DocId: 62589751

12D

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

REC-56

62-117290-509

57:131

VISHIN

2 MAR 15 1978

relied

for delwery

prober

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 107

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 108

Assistant Attorney General

criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

VOIE: Based on the time period of interest to the HSCA, only

Sections 68 through 80 of the Southern Christian Leadershir

Conference (SCLC) file have been prepared for HSCA access.

The Black Nationalist-Hate Groups Counterintelligence

Program (COINTELPRO) file (100-448006) was reviewed for the

period of interest to the HSCA, January 1, 1967, to May 1, 1968.

From this file approximately 25 serials relating to actions or

considered

actions against King and SCLC have been processed for

Committee access.

The Communist Party U. S. A. (CPUSA) COINTELPRO file

(100-3-104) was

not reviewed for material pertaining to king or

SCLC.

There was previously conducted at FBIHQ a thorough review

of COINTELPRO files.

Summaries of all actions were prepared in

order to respond to Department and Congressional inquiries about

the scope and depth of the programs.

Therefore, serials in

this file pertaining to King and SCLC have already been identified.

These serials, approximately 15 in number from 1962 to 1968,

It should be noted that the majority of counterintelligence-.

type activities against King and SCLC were carried out in their

substantive investigations and not under any COINTELPRO.

To date, Congressional Inquiry Unit procedure has been

to remove classified information from material being prepared for

HSCA access and to make the classified material available upon

request only to HSCA staff member with appropriate security

clearance.

Since most staff members now have their clearances

and the volume of classilled serials Involved in this request is

considerable, all classified information is being left in the

material processed for the HSCA. The Congressional Inquiry Unit

will insure that only HSCA staff members with security clearances

will be granted access to these files.

Other items in the HSCA request of 11/30/77, are being

prepared and upon completion a response will be submitted.

-2-

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 108

---

## Page 109

AL ТО НЕТО ГАРТ.

"Ii lu ton

Salmachmi?

HOUSE SELECT CONMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

January 11, 1978

1 - Mr.

Foster

1 - Mr. Aldhizer

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

November 30, 1977, which requested Information from FBI

Headquarters files in the investigation of Martin Luther King's

assassination.

Among other Items, this letter specifically

requested the following:

(2) The main file on the Southern Christián Leadership

Conference (SCLC) for the period January 1, 1967, through

May 1, 1968.

(5) A1l materials pertaining to Martin Luther King,

Jr., and the SCLO in the Counterintelligence Program (COINTELPRO)

file.

This memorandum is to advise that material in response

to the above items has been processed and is available for HSCA

access at. FBI Headquarters.

Where information 1s not provided;

It 1s either not retrievable fron FBI Headquarters files or 1s

not being produced pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding-

Regarding Item 5, HSCA Staff Attorney Nike Eberhardt

advised on December 15's 1971, that only the FBI COINTELPRO

Involving the Communist

Party, U, S..A. (CPUSA) and Black

Nationalist-Hate Groups be reviewed for relevant Information

concerning King and SCLC. On December 27, 1977, Staff Attorney

JTA : sas

(9)

Assoc. Dir. -

DoO

Dep AD In ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL

Asst. Dies DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH & ONE SENT TO OFFICE

Adm. Sew. OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Crim. Inv..

Fin. & PersUQTE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Letter t

Ident Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/11/78,

" captioned, "House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

Logol Coun Of Representatives (HSCA)."

Plan. & Insp. -

Spoc. Inv. am

Tech, Servs.-

Training -

62-117290-509

Publie Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. =

Director's Sec'y=

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

NN 55061 DooId: 32989751

Page 109

---

## Page 110

Kousc Seloct Committee on Assassinations

lark spelser advised that the perlod of ISCA Interest in tho

Black Nationalist-iato GroupE COLMTCLPRO f1le could be Iinited

cron January 1, 1907, to lay 1, 190c, to ce consisient with the

tine poriod sraoilied in ocher

Items of the Roverber 30, 1977,

request.

It should be noted that in proparing the above -

rontioned caterial, because nutcrous docusents involved are

classified, no roroval of classified documento was rado.

Therefore,

NSCA roview of this ratorial should be restrictod

only to HiCA staff nonbors possessing sacurity clearances.

= 2=

NW 55061 Dold: 32989751

Page 110

---

## Page 111

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIHMI

RICHIROSON PREYCIR, MS.

WALTEN E. FAUNTROY, D.C

SAMUELL.

STEVART:

YVONNE DRATHSYAITE DURKE, CALIF.

CHAHLES TI

iNNEY, CONN.

NEDR.

CHRISTOPHER i. DODD, CONN.

MAROLO S. SANYER, MAIC).

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

RODERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4628

Select Committee on Assassinations

4.D. House de lepresentatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

NOV 3 0 1977

UPFICE OF

-CONSONAL

DEe ! 406 PH 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Luther King, JI.; it is requested

that the FBI provide the Committee with following materials:

1.. The main security file on Dr. Martin Luther Ring,

JI. for the period January 1, 1967 through May 1,

1968.

2.

3.

4.

The main file on the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference for the period January 1, 1967 through

May I, 1968.

The file on the Memphis Sanitation Strike for the

period January 1, 1968 through May 1, 1968.

The file on DI. Martin Luther King, JI./POOr People's

March for the period December 1, 1967 through May I,.

1968.

5. All materials pertaining to Martin Luther King, JI.

and the SCLC in the COINTELPRO file.

This letter supercedes the earlier requests relative to

these files found in the Committee letters of November 3, 1977

and November 8, 1977.

1/1178

tHates (Exc-2)

1-OLA(ENC)

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 111

62-117290-509

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 112

-2-

Your prompt attention to these matters will be greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: mea

cc

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

WW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 112

---

## Page 113

= =

FEDERAL GOVERNENT

Assistart Attorney General

Grininal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Reuch

Director, FBI

January 27, 1978

1 - Mr roster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn :

Mr. Coulson)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REFRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

IrOn &. RODert BLaKey, thiel Counsel and Director, tisca, dated

Hovember 9, 1977, requesting Information in connection with the

USCA's Investigation Into the assassination of Martin Luther

King, JI. This lettér requested delivery of "Appendix C+

well as a list of any other appendices to the report of. the

Department of Justice Task Forcé Which conducted a previous

revier of the FBI's security and assassination Investigations

of King-

Inclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandan YE

which confirns delivery on January 25, 1978, of a copy of each

of the Appendix O volumes (12) in possession of the FBI.

These Department documents are presently stored at FBI Head-

quarters, per previous request of the oilice of Frolessional

Responsibility, Department of Justice, On January 25, 1978,

Mr. Robert I. Keuch, Deputy Assistant Attorney General,

authorized direct delivery of these documents to the HSCA and

stated that the Departnent of Justice would handle all other

aspects of the HSCA's request regarding Appendir &.

te tee is that you furnish a coRes, the enclosed memorandum

to the HiSCA.

Enclosures - 2

ST-131

62-117290-508

1 - Dffice of Legislative Affaira

(Enclosure)

1 - Office of Frofessional Responsibillty (Enclosure).

'Assoc. Dir.=

JIA: sas

AD Adil - (7) Do

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. =

Crim. Iny. -

Fin. & Perso _

Ident. =

Intell. -

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. -

Specilnv. -

Tech. Servs. -

Training -

Publie Affs. Off.=

Telep

Rm.

MW

55061

"NCLOSURE

8 19 79n

*ROOM

DocId: 32

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

2 MAR 15 1978

MAILED 5

JAN 2 7 1978

HRe

FBI

HB

and when is t

113-860

MR CAULSON

'Rom 3655

батасрахя

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 113

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 114

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

VOTE: From December, 1975, to February, 1971, a Task Force of

the Office of Professional

Responsibility (OPR), Department oI

Justice, conducted a review of our security and

assassination

investigations of King•

Following release of its report,

Michael E. Shaheen, Counsel, OPR, requested the FBI assume

temporary custody of the 12

volumes of Appendix C of the OPR

report..

This was done in order that the documents could be

reviewed for classification purposes and for excisions if the

He the one ate tre ta rehan nto the knotime.

assassination.

-.-

!

- — -

2

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 114

---

## Page 115

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn:

Mr. Soulson)

January 27, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (USCA)

Feference is made to letter to the Attorney General

from C. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

November 9, 1977, requesting Information in connection with the

ISCA's Investigation Into the ascassination of Martin Luther

King, Ir. This letter requested delivery of "Appendix Of as

as a list of any other appendices to the report of the

Department of Justice Task Force which conducted a previous

review of the FBI's security and assassination Investigations

oj King.

By previous request of the Departnent of Justice, 12

volumes of Appendly o arE being temporarily stored at IbI

Headguarters.

these volumes consist of notes by the department

sask force, based upon review of ib king relaced tiles

copy of each of the below listed volumes has been processed and

was delivered to representatives of the HSCA, Lance Svendsen and

Oliver Champion, on January 25, 1978:

Volume I - (top Secret)

Volume II - (top Secret)

Volume III - (Secret)

Assoc. Dir. =

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.:

Crim. Inv.

Volume IV - (Secret)

Volune V. (Secret)

Volume VI ~ (Iop Secret)

Volume VII - (Iop Secret)

(7)

... i)

Ess pincente

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Fin. & Pers.

Tel. ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CREDINAL

Laboratory

• DIVISION, ATTENTION:

MR. ROBERI L. REUCH AND ONE SENT TO OFFICE

- Legal Çour. QF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS.

Plan. & Inspe

Rec Mgnt. _

Spec. Inv. _

Tech. Servs.-

Training-

Public Alfs. Olf.

Telephone Rm. -

Director's See'y -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT O

62-118290-508

CLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 115

---

## Page 116

Touce Eclect Cormittee on Assassinations

Volure VIII - (Iop Jecret)

Volune IX - (Secret)

Tolume X - (Sccret)

Volume XI - (L'op Secret)

Volume XXI - (Unclassified)

Per roquest of the Dopartrent of Justico, the original

of thera 12 volures, plus a copy showing excisions made prior to

delivery to tho Cormittee, 1s being rotained at FbI leadquarters.

on January 25, 1978, Ir. Robert I. Feuch, Deputy

Assistant Attorney General, Crininal Division, Departuent of

Justice, authorized dellvery of copion of these docurents

directly to the ESCA.

Ir. Reuch advised that the lepartront of

Juctieo rould handle the romaining portions of the NSCA roquest

pertaining to Appendix C.

NOTE: See Director, FBl, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Criminal Division, Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated 1/27/78,

captioned,

"House

Select Committee on Assassinations, U. S. House

of Representatives (HSCA)."

NN 55061 DOOId: 32989751

Page 116

-...

---

## Page 117

LOILS STONIS, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDION PREYIA, N.C.

SAMUEL L. DEVINE. O)

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, I GOOd'

• BTEWART B.

YVONNE DRATIYATE NURXE, CALIF.

CHARLESTI

CHRISTOPHIAS.DODO. COMM.

HAROLO S.

HAROLD E. FORO, TENN,

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

"HOSINT HY.KOGAY, TRI

(202) 225-4628

Select Committee on Assassinations

Er.5. Transe of giepresentatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING. ANNEX'2

WASHINGTON. D.C. 20515

NOY & 1977

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: MI. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation of the House

Select Committee on Assassinations into the death of

DI. Martin Luther King, JI., it has been learned that

Force Report of the Depart-

ment of Justice had previously been compiled.

believed that "Appendix C" collectively refers to at

least one volume of indices/summaries currently in the

possession of the FBI and approximately some fourteen

other volumes of similar or related materials in the

possession of the Department of Justice. It is requested

that this Committee be furnished with a copy of "Appendix

C" as well as a list of any other appendices to the Task,

Force Report.

Your prompt attention to this matter will be greatly.

appreciated.

very truly yours,

12. Notes Bolz

•"C. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB; mea

CC

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

MITORAGKO

1/2717f ne-a

ITA:SAS

I-OLACENE)

1- OPIR CENC)

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 117

62-117290-588

*CLOSURE

---

## Page 118

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAI: "

RICHARDSON-"REYER, N.E.

SAMU:

WAITER E. FAUNTROY D.C.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE CURKE, CALIF.

STEW:

CHAF•

_CHRiSTOPHETES, DODD. CONN.

HARG

• HAROLO E. FORS, TENN.

FLOYD S. FISHIAN, IND,

ROBERT VI. LOGAR, SA.

(232) 225-4524

FEDERAL COVERNUANS

CONN.

Louse

Select Committce Di-

ations,

U.S. House of Representatives

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MAR 7 1970

Rec; 210

3/5/28:

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

Attention: • Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

'Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

While reviewing FBI files previously requested in con-

nection with our investigation of the assassination of DI.

Martin Luther King, Jr., staff members of this Committee have

determined that access to certain additional information is

necessary at this time. The Committee therefore requests tha

the FBI make available for review the following files and

materials:

1. The Birmingham Field Office files on the United

Klans of America.

TREAT As

ORIGINAL

2.

All retrievable information on William Augustus

Somersett contained within the Miami Field Office

files.

+62-117290-503

3. A numerical break&ffn, nationally and by state,

(limited,.of course, to those states for which

files of the organization's activities have been

previously requested) of the Bureau's informant

coverage of the organizations set forth below..

The positions of the informants (i.e. rank and file

member vs. officer) within these groups should also

be specified. Any reports prepared by the Inspection

Division of the FBI on the quality as well as the

quantity of informant coverage of the organizations

is also desired.

viously identified in our letters dated January 26,

1978 and February 28, 1978, are as follows:

62-117290 MAR 13 1978

a. United Klans of America

b. White Citizens' Council

c. Minutemen

d. Liberty Lobby

MW 55061 DocId: 32989751

18

---

## Page 119

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page Two,

e.

Black Panthers

Black Muslims

g. American Nazi

h.

i.

j.

k.

1.

m.

Party

Forever White

The Sword

The Fiery Cross

The White Camelia

The Silver Dollar Group

Constitution Party

The informant information we request for these organi-

zations pertain to the period of January 1, 1967 through

December 31, 1968. The locations we are primarily concerned

with include:

New Orleans, Louisiana

Birmingham, Alabama

Memphis, Tennessee

Chicago, Illinois

Atlanta, Georgia

Los Angeles, California

State of

Mississippi

In addition to the aforementioned locations, with

"respect to item (m) we would appreciate your making available

"the"same information in St. Louis, Missouri and Miami, Florida.

With respect to items (a) through (1) above, the information

requested should be prepared for the following locations during

the periods enumerated:

Birmingham, Alabama - January-June, 1963.

St. Augustine,.

Florida - January-June, 1964

Staté of Mississippi - March-September, 1964

State of Alabama - January-June, 1965.

Additionally, it is necessary that we obtain access to

"wany files or records in the possession of the Bureau relating

...to.the individuals noted below:

1. Robert J. Reynolds - 3400 3/4 Walnut Grove Ave.,

Rosemead, California. Former address: . 1712 Santa

'Anita Avenue, Arcadia, California.

2.

Rev. Earl Anglin James aka E. A. Jones - Date of

birth: 4/23/01.

James is alluded to in the following

FBI files:

44-1574-1645

New Orleans 157-10673-1125

Los Angeles 44-38861-4461

New Orleans 44-38861-4464•

NW. 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 119

---

## Page 120

. "

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page Three

4.

Mrs. Sun Loo - 962 Dundas Street, Toronto,

Canada.

5. Charles H. Sapp - 540 Grand Canal Drive, Miami,

Florida.

6.

Everett Kay - 8760 S.W. 4lst Terrace, Miami,

Florida.

Telephone: 305-221-5921.

7. Donald Lee Mitchell - Date of birth: 3/27/42.

P.O.B. Pochontos, Arkansas.

FBI #432652-D (X00 312)

8. Link Rodney - Whitehaven, Tennessee.

• 9. George R. Brachett - Work address:

330 W. 9th

Street, Hialeach, Florida. Home address: 10430

N.W. 36th Street, Miami, Florida.

10: Lauren E. "Skip" Hall - Kanville, California.

11. Henry Shand Tillman - Memphis, Tennessee

Your prompt attention to this matter will be sincerely

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

S. Nobut Bleshey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ms j

Vcc:

Mr. Danny O. Coulson

...

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 120

---

## Page 121

. "

it' i to

SI0008 0622231

RR HQ

3 MAR 78 22

37z

DE SI

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

R D322231Z MAR 78

COMMUNICATIC YS SECTION

FM SPRING FIELD/ (62-2567)

TO DIRECTOR

/(62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

Asso6, Dir.

Đep, AD Ađm.

Đep. AD Inv.

Asst, Bir.!

Adm, Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Laharatory

Leftal Coun

pian. & insp.

Red. Mgnt.

Trech. Servs

Traiting

Telephone Rm.

Directors SecA

SOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

I RE SPRINGFIELD LETTER IO BUREAU (BUFILE 157-26213), AUGUST 13,

1975.

FOR INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU, RICHARD EUGENE GEPPERT OPENED

AS A SOURCE OCTOBER 3D, 197D, AND DISCONIINUED SEPTEMBER 1971, RE-

OPENED MARCH 1972 AND DISCONTINUED MAY 1972.

(DE)

ON MARCH 2, 1978, (FNU) SNYDER, REPORTER, GRANITE CITY PRESS

RECORD, GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED THE ALION

RESIDENT AGENCY AND INQUIRED IF THE FBI HAD SUBPOENAED RICHARD

GEPPIRI TO APPEAR BEFORE THE, ERNEBESSIONAL COMMITTEE INVESIIGATING

THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MART IN LUTHER

KING,

RE 50₴

CEIVED INFORMATION IHAT GEPPERI, AN INDIVIDUAL FROM ST. LOUIS NO I7R

MISSOURI, AND A THIRD INDIVIDUAL FROM BLACKJACK, MISSOURI, TO

62-117290

4

/ Carlo

-1978

NW 55061 DocId: 32589481

1-13.86

Page 121

Артастке

---

## Page 122

PAGE TWO SI 62-2567 CLEAR

' APPEAR BEFORE THE COMMITTEE. SNYDER HAD TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED

RICHARD GEPPERT OF GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS TO DETERMINE IF HE HAD

BEEN SUBPOENAED AND GEPPERT HAD REFUSED TO COMMENT. SNYDER WAS

ATTEMPIING TO DETERMINE IF THE FBI HAD SUBPOENAED GEPPERI AND IF SO,

IF GEPPERT OF GRANITE CITY, ILLINOIS WAS IDENTICAL WITH THE GEPPERT

SUBPOENAED. SNYDER WAS INFORMED THAT THE FBI HAD NOT SUBPOENAED.

GEPPERT AND COULD NOT FURNISH ANY INFORMATION REGARDING THE CON-

GRESSIONAL COMMITTEE INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION AS THE COMMITTEE

HAD THEIR OWN INVESTIGATORS.

SPRINGFIELD DOES NOT PLAN TO CONTACI RICHARD EUGENE GEPPERT AND

NO FURTHER ACTION IS BEING TAKEN, UACB.

BI

NW 55061

DocId:32989751

Page 122

---

## Page 123

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

Facsimile

[X] Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE: :

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

O CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

• CLEAR

Date 2/28/78

Cd

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

ECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM.

MUSAC, CINCINNATI (62-3518) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE-SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Buded 3/3/78

45'

Re Bureau airtel to AT 2/16/78.

Search of Cincinnati indices and appropriate

administrative and case files identified the below listed

enclosures:

By Cincinnati airtel to Bureau, captioned "FREEDOM-

OF INFORMATION - PRIVACY ACTS (FOIPA) , REQUEST OF JESSE B.

STONER, Aka., J. B. Stoner", identified information from

CI 389-C (RAC) * contained in Cincinnati file 137-1739-1B1

and advising location of original tapes.

Cincinnati file destruction list indicates file

137-1739 was destroyed in November, 1977, together with

tapes referred to in Cincinnati airtel identified-as-

137-1739-1B1.

Bureau instructions were received 1/30/78, under

destruction of field files and records indicating files on

J. B. STONER should not be destroyed.

One copy each of the following listed serials are

being forwarded per captioned request:

62-117290501

2Bureau (Enc.

REG- 1311

2-Cincinnati de tem

Fael Fin A905

RGW: mw

8188

(4)

дт

Approved! 2: 1278

Nw

55061

DooId: 32989751

Page 123

MAR 6. 1978

602779

Jabine

Бараки Баріпасрока род

CLASS. REVA

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

21-49701

---

## Page 124

CI 62-3518

1. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 2/29/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY:

RACIAL MATTERS".

2. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 2/29/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

3. Bureau airtel to Cincinnati 3/7/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

4. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 3/9/60,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS"• .

5. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 3/10/60,

captioned "NATIONAL, STATES RIGHTS PARTY.

RACIAL, MATTERS".

6. Bureau teletype to Cincinnati, captioned

as above, received 3/11/60, not dated.

7. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau 3/20/60, •

captioned as above.

8. Cincinnati memo of SAC E. D. MASON 3/21/60,

captioned as above.

9. Bureau letter to Cincinnati 3/28/60₽

captioned às above....

10. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 3/29/60,

captioned as above.

11. FD-221a dated 4/27/60₽

12. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 10/7/66:

captioned "MICROPHONE AND TELEPHONE

SURVEILLANCE"

13. Cincinnati airtel to Bureau 10/17/66 (date

changed from 10/14/66), captioned as

enclosure 12.

14.

Bureau teletype to All SACS, except offices

listed, 10/5/66, captioned as enclosure 12.

- 2 -

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 124

---

## Page 125

CI 62-3518

15. Louisville airtel to Bureau 11/19/59,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY:

FORMERLY KNOWN AS UNITED WHITE PARTY:

RACIAL MATTERS".

16. Bureau airtel to Cincinnati 11/19/59,

captioned "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY.

RACIAL MATTERS" •

17. Bureau airtel to Louisville 12/24/59.

captioned as enclosure 16.

18. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau 3/16/60,

captioned as enclosure 16.

19. Cincinnati teletype to Bureau and Louisville.

3/20/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

20. Cincinnati memo of Supervisor RALPH J.

RAMPTON 3/21/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

21. Cincinnati radiogram to Bureau 3/24/60,

captioned as enclosure 16.

22. Cincinnati report of SA ALFRED E. GARDNER, JR.:

4/11/60, captioned as enclosure 16.

23. Cincinnati letter to Bureau 4/15/60,

captioned as enclosure 16.

Due to the type of investigation, Cineinnati-

classification officer recommending no specific classifi-

cation but leaving final decision to FBI Headquarters.

- 3 -

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 125

---

## Page 126

LOUSSSTO|59.110, CHAIRM

RICHANDSON PREYER I.C.

WALTER I. FAUNIHOY, D.C.

STEWA

YVONNE UNITAWAITE BURKE, CALIF

CHAHLE.

NONE. NEDI

CHAISTOPHER 3. DODO, CONH.

MANOLU 5. SAHYER, MICH.

TROYOS. FITHUR, IND.

@MODIRT YI. EDDAN, TA.

Rec. 610

Qouce

Select Conmittee on Assassinations

(202) 275-4624

Ti.5. House of Ricpresentatives

3/0178

Hand delevered lug

3338 HOUSE OFFICE DUILDING, ANNEX 2

10 %

HSCA staffer Tale Gerberg

WASHINGTON. D. G. 20515

NUDERAL GOVERNANI

March 7, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attocney General

Criminal Division,

Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by the Committee

into the death of Dr. Martin Iuther King, Jr., it is requested

that the FBI deliver to the Committee the following documents

• from the files already prepared for review by the Committee

pertaining to William Hugh Morris:

I. HUA Hearings References: Activities of KKK,

89th Congress 2nd Session Part 4

a. p. 3398 - 10 page letter detailing MLK assassi-

nation offer for $25,000, planned attempt at

Antioch College

b. p. 3411 - Stephens testimony re: letter.

C: P. 3433 - Reference to Morris involvement

with obtaining dynamite

2.

References - 189-168-106

3.

Bufile 57-166-33: Office File 105-149

Reporting Office: Atlanta

Title:

Federated KKK Inc.

2/20/6? Report of SA Carl Claiborne

(remak by Morris regarding ki. ling of MiK)

4.

157-4390 (unrecord serialREC- 131

62-117290

Memo from F. I. Baumgardner to 62-117290-

w. C. Sullivan, 2/10,66

499

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

MAR g 1578

54MAR 2119784

NW 55061* Dosid: 32999751

Page 126

---

## Page 127

= 2=

5.

157-3815-6 8/26/65 report from Cincinnati

(materials mentioning offer to kill MLK)

It is requested that the foregoing materials be prepared

on an expedite basis.

It is further requested that the FBI provide the HSCA

with a copy of any arrest record for William Hugh Morris as

soon as possible.

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly appre-

ciated.

Very truly yours,

1. Notut Blakes

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: mea

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751.

Page, 127

---

## Page 128

LOUIS SINK SI, ONIO, CHAIRMAN

•i RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL U

SHIO

SALTER E FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART

YVONTE BRATHIVAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES

M-INEY, CONN.

SE, NEOR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD SOLNIYER, MICH.

¿ HARULO I, FORD, TEBIN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

HODZAT W. LOGAR, PA.

Stouse

(202) 225-4624

sand delivered by ASCA

stype Tale Gapesberg

MEDERAL DOVARIUEATE

Select Committee on Assassinations

-T.5. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

March 3, 1978

3/1/25

10%%

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room

• 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of DI. Martin

Luther King, Jr., it is requested that the Federal Bureau of.

tive i gation make assess avalable to the rozoring anvesto g

tive files:

1) All Headquarters and Field Office files on:

a. the bombing of the Gaston Motel, May 1963,

Birmingham, Alabama,

b. the bombing of Reverend A. D. King's house,

May 1963, Birmingham, Alabama,

c. the bombing of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s

house, January 30, 1956, Montgomery, Alabama,

d.

the attempted bombing of Dr. Martin Luther

King, Jr.'s house, January 28, 1957, Mont-

gomery, Alabama.

162-117-290-491

Further, it would be applifilled if the following Agents

were made available for interviews:

Norman Walter Philcox - Legat, Paris 1967-69

MAR g 1978,

Moss Lee Innes

• Legat, Ottawa 1967-69

Nathan I. 'Ferris - Legat, Mexico City' - 1967-69*

62-117290

TREAT AS

ORIGINAL

54MAR 21 1978

NW 55061/ DocId: 32989751

Page 128

---

## Page 129

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell.

March 3, 1978

Page 2

Your prompt attention to these matters is greatly

appreciated.

Respectfully,

2. Robes Slaby

G. RObert BlaKey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghd

Sec: Danny Coulson

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 129

---

## Page 130

2 MAR78 03 532

RECEIVED

LIMITED OF REGISTSON

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

LONDON 03364 0117597

FBB885

BAGE DI

ACTION EUR - 12

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Alim.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

ten the

Ident

In'e'l

Plan a 1nr7.

Rer. M-n°

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Secy

INFO

ОСТ -Д1

L- D3

ISO- 0D

1 D28 W

H-D 1

MCT - D1 JUSE-DD

FBIE-OD

-- B77870

D203437 / 64

Begante

R D11752Z MAR 78

FM AMEMBASSY LONDON

TO SECSTATE WASHDO 3684

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE LONDON 03364

FOR H (ASST SEC BENNET) AND EUR/ NE

EX-110

14-25

DE-65

E. O. 11652: N/A

TAGS: P.INP

UK

SUBJECT:

4

REC-13 62-117290-77942

MAR 9 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

•RET:

Z MAR 2.41978

R287

LONDON

1641

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 130

---

## Page 131

THE:

•EMBASSY HAS RECEI

A LETTER DATED FEB 27

T HE

HOME OFFICE APOLOGIZING FOR THE DELAY OCCASIONED BY THE

NECESSITY TO CONSULI WITH THE COMMISSIONER OF THE

(LONDON) METROPOLITAN POLICE AND RESPONDING TO THE

SELECI COMMITTEE'S REQUEST FOR ACCESS TO BRITISH POLICE

RECORDS AND KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSONS CONCERNED WITH THE

ARREST OF JAMES EARLARAY AS FOLLOWS:

QUOTE I SHOULD PERHAPS BEGIN BY EXPLAINING THAT THERE A

LIMITATIONS ON CHIEF OFFICERS OF POLICE MAKING AVAILABLE

INFORMATION OBTAINED BY THEIR OFFICERS IN THE COURSE OF

CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS. CERTAIN INFORMATION WOULD, OF

COURSE, BECOME PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE IN THE COURSE OF CRIMINAL

OR, IN THIS CASE, EXTRADITION PROCEEDINGS BEFORE A COURT,

BUT THERE IS NO RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION HELD BY

THE POLICE EVEN FOR MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT IN THIS COUNTRY.

THERE ARE ALSO PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. THE ARREST

OF RAY TOOK PLACE ALMOST TEN YEARS AGO AND MOST OF THE

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751 Page 131

---

## Page 132

it...

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

PAGE D2

LONDON 03364 D1175 9Z

OFFICERS CONCERNED WITH THE CASE HAVE SINCE RETIRED

FROM THE FORCE. INDEED, THE POLICE OFFICER PRINCIPALLY

CONCERNED, CHIEF SUPERINIENDENT BUTLER, IS NOW DEAD.

ANY OFFICERS STILL SERVING, WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE

CASE, WERE OF RELATIVELY JUNIOR RANK AT THE TIME AND MAY

NOT BE IN A POSITION TO GIVE THE SELECT COMMITTEE THE

TYPE OF INFORMATION IT MAY REQUIRE.

REALISING THE PUBLIC IMPORIANCE OF THE MURDERS WITH

WHICH THE SENATE COMMITTEE IS CONCERNED, THE BRITISH

AUTHORITIES WISH TO CO-OPERATE AS FAR AS THEY CAN, AND

ARE PREPARED TO SEE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE COMMITTEE, IF

THEY COME TO THIS COUNTRY, AND IO FACILITATE IHE PRO-

VISION OF INFORMATION BY THE POLICE AS APPROPRIATE. WE

SHOULD, HOWEVER, BE IN A MUCH BETTER POSITION IO HELP

IF THE COMMITTEE COULD PROVIDE IN ADVANCE THE INFORMA-

TION REQUESTED AS TO THE PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF THE

INQUIRY AND THE USE THAT WOULD BE MADE OF ANY EVIDENCE

OBTAINED. I SHOULD EMPHASISE, HOWEVER, THAT THERE

CANNOT BE ANY PROSPECT OF THE COMMITTEE BEING GRANTED

DIRECT ACCESS TO POLICE FILES. END QUOTE.

BREWSTER '

NW 55061

DocId: 32989751

Page 132

---

## Page 133

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

AT A irtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

I TOP SECRET

I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

O CLEAR

Date

3/1/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (66-2280) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta and other offices

2/16/78.251

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy each of Birmingham

FD 142 dated 10/25/63, Birmingham airtel to the Bureau,

dated 10/28/63, Birmingham FD 143, dated 11/15/73, and

Birmingham airtei

to the Bureau dated 11/26/73.

Also enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a

set of handwritten logs and Birmingham memos pertaining

to Birmingham 292C during October and November of 1963.

The above represents all information availalle

to Birmingham with regard to the request made of Birmingham

by the Bureau and referenced Bureau airtel.

- Bureau (Enc. SJENGLOSURDREC-36

EX 1208,

PRR: dsc

R: Parmingham

(3)

detor:

had Retained

62-117290-494

Rm 8988

EAS MAR

Sc - 1978

дта

ATL TE

FIC CARA TO DO

Transmitted

Per -

(Number)

(Time)

GPO: 1977 0 - 225-539

Page 133

---

## Page 134

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Ca Teletype

Facsimile

[y Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

SECRET

7 CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

O CLEAR

Date

2/28/78

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (62-7385)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT

CATTN: CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS

MANAGEMENT

DIVISION)

COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA)

(BUDED 3/1/78)

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta dated 2/16/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau is a copy of the

following documents:

1) Chicago letter to Bureau dated 7/13/62,

captioned,.

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS".

2)

CATER A STAT CO OLe 1120)

MATTERS".

in this LHM is CG 6556-s*.

Information

furnished by this source is set forth

on pages two through ten.

Chicago airtel to Bureau dated 6/8/62,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka. RACIAL MATTERS"

Bureau (Enc. 16), ENCLOSURE

Chicago detor

batchin

JPM/dcb

Km ga88

(3)

11 MAR F

1973

"Approved:

# 55061 1a014452989751

Page 134

Transmitted

(Number)

Per

(Time)

GPO: 19770-225-539

---

## Page 135

CG 62-7385

4)

Bureau radiogram to Chicago dated 6/13/62,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka.", authorizing misur survey.

5)

Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 6/16/62;

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS", indicating misur installed

at La Salle Hotel.

6) Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 6/17/62,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS", indicating misur

installation discontinued and equipment

removed.

7)

Bureau radiogram dated 5/2/59, captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY, aka.

RACIAL MATTERS", granting authority to

conduct survey.

8.)

Bureau radiogram dated 5/5/59, captioned,

NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS",

granting authority to install misur at

Atlantic Hotel.

9)

Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/6/69,

captioned,

"NATIONAL, STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur installed

at Atlantic Hotel.

10). Chicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/1/59,

captioned

• "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

aka., RACIAL MATTERS" requesting authority

to conduct survey for technical coverage at

Atlantic Hotel, Chicago.

* 11)

to install misur at the Atlantic Hotel,

Chicago.

• "2.

RIM 55761

DocId: 32989751

Page 135

---

## Page 136

CG 62-7385

12)

13)

14)

15)

16)

unicago teletype to Bureau dated 5/1/09,

captioned,

"NATIONAL STATES RIGHT'S PARTY

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur discontinued.

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 5/15/59,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL. MATTERS" regarding symbol number

for misur..

Bureau airtel to Chicago dated 5/7/59,

captioned; "NATIONAL STATES RIGHTS PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" pertaining to misur at

Atlantic Hotel, Chicago.

Chicago airtel to Bureau dated 5/21/59,

captioned, "NATIONAL STATES RIGHT'S PARTY,

RACIAL MATTERS" indicating misur equipment

removed.

FD-306 dated 5/6/59, setting forth informa-

tion obtained from misur at Atlantic Hotel,

Chicago, on 5/6/59.

NW

10n mr bot

BIOTER

---

## Page 137

FD-36 (Pev. 7-27-7

TRANSMIT VIA:

Ú Teletype

• Facsimile

XX Airtel

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

O TOP SECRET

I SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

D CLEAR

Date

2/27/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, LOUISVILLE (66-2612)

SUBJECT :

HOUSE SELECI COMMITURE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Y8852

Is I

113-810

imagine

BUDED: 3/1/78

451

Re Bureau airtel to Atlanta, dated 2/16/78.

Pursuant to referenced communication, a thorough

review of pertinent indices and investigative files was

conducted on 2/27/78 by SA EDMUND V. ARMENTO, specifically

concerning a microphone surveillance of Dr. EDWARD FIELDS,

2/28/64 - 3/1/64, at the Sheraton Hotel, Louisville, Ky•,

IS 337-RAC*, during National States Rights Party (NSRP)

convention.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is one (1) copy-

each of all material pertaining to the authorization,

installation and removal of IS 337-RAC* and all communications,

logs and transcripts containing surveillance results, as

described below:

Enclosurely Serial Description

1

Louisville airtel to Bureau,

Location

IS 66-914-215

captioned "NSRP,". dated

2/12/64

Louisville teletype to Bureau

IS 66-914-216

and Birmingham, captioned

2-Bureau

2-Iouisville (1-66-2612)

(1-92-281B)

EVA/mIa

(4)

TE BAR & 1978

BENG

Approved:

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

Pears

COP0: 19770-225-539

NW 55061 DocId: 32989751

Page 137

---

## Page 138

++• 15 66-2612

Enclosure

3

Serial Description

Louisville airtel to Bureau,

Location

IS 66-914-217

captioned "NSRP," dated

3/2/64

4

Louisville teletype to Bureau,

IS 170-3-2

captioned "NSRP," dated 2/28/64

5

Bureau teletype to Birmingham

IS 105-271-2201

and Louisville, captioned "NSRP,"

dated 2/17/64

6

Birmingham

teletype to Bureau

IS 105-271-2206

and Louisville, captioned "NSRP,"

dated 2/25/64

7

Bureau teletype to Louisville,

IS 105-271-2209

captioned "NSRP," dated 2/17/64

8

Louisville report of SA WARREN I. LS 105-271-2260

WALSH, captioned "NSRP," dated

6/15/64 (cover pages only)

9

MISUR 10g Sheraton Hotel,

IS 105-271-1

Louisville, Ky., 2/28/64 -

2/29/64

10

Notes - Monitoring of

IS 105-271-1

Conversation, Room 532,

Sheraton Hotel, Louisville, Ky.,

2/29/64

Originals of all the above serials being maintainer

for House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) future

review.

2*

LIM

.Decid: 32989751

Page 138

---

