# docid-32570103

## Page 1

TO

FROM

SUBJE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

* MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI [61-205177(5)

SAC, TAMPA [105-2314)] (RUC) (5)

ROMULO

IS - v

BETANCOURT

TO0: PX)

DATE:

4/17/64

Enclosed for

the

in

Bureau are nine copies of a LHM

captioned matter. (R)

U)

The source of information referred to herein is

PSI MARIO RUIZ, who furnished the information to

The LHM is being classified "Confidential" since

it tends to reveal the Bureau's

investigative interest in

foreign diplomatic officials. (*'(U

COPY FILED IN / 05-1145713

Other sources of the Tampa Office have been alerted

CS/concerning [BETANCOURT'S travel and stay in the United States

but none o

these other sources had any pertinent information

to repor EN

ALL IRFORMATION CORTAIRES

2 - Bureau (Encls.

NEREI% IS UNCLASSIFIES

UNRECORDED

2 - Phoenix. (Encls. 2)

(RM)

EXCEPY WHEKE SHOCK

- Miami (Encls. 2) (RM)

OTHEAWISE

1 - WFO (Encls. 1) (RM)

1 - Tampa.

HKR: Cj

(8).

Icekelained

for destructio

# 3(64-20517-5637

10 APR 201964 05 RA /ISR

8-3-95 VEL

Copy to: CIA/State/RAO-ISD

ONI/OSI/ACSI/DIA

17211336

by routing slip for into.

Date...

4- 20-64 br GCm/da

CLASSIFFED BY 5668-30/ude

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SFA

SECRETI

3 APR 29 1964

364

NW 45825 DooId: 32570103 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNIT

SECRET

STATES DEPARTMENT OF ISTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Florida

ApriL 17, 1964

ROMULO BETANCOURT

INTERRAL SOCURTAN - VENEZUBLA (S)

a contidential source at Tampa, Florida, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advised March 31, 1964, that a

Cuban exile group opposed to the regime of FIDEL CASTRO is planning

a public ratly to be held in Miami, Florida, May 20, 1964, at

which time it is expected a public announcement will be made that

Phting has been in Cuba to overthrow the thine araluctonarta

of the participating groups in this rally

Cubana (JURE;(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

The source further advised

that ROMULO BETANCOURT, ex-

president of Venezuela,

is expected to be in Miami for this meeting

on May 20, 1964•

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents

outside your agency. (

are not to be distributed

И)

NFFDENTIAL-

ALL ISFORMATION CONTAINED

NEREID IS UNGLASSIFTER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWK

OTHERSISE

Excrude

"ton rutonati

gasting and teetassiffeation.

4/1/97

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

8-2/94

Classified by 05 AmP/Kse

Declasudy 31:

OADR

(JFK)

APR 28 1964

SECRET

HH 45825 DooId:32570103 Page 2

---

