# docid-32325775

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90037-10057

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-380792-48

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/27/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : . MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32325775

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Diss o..

CONFIDENTIAL

NY 100-105045

Doctor BERNHARD NEUMANN.

Legat, London, by letters, 0/30/61

NYO to make additional efforts to determine GREENDLINGER's present

whereabouts. In view of the Bureau's request it is believed that

•a mail cover on GREENDLINGER's, parentiwould be productive as-to

the present whereabouts of MARTIN GREENDLINGER with a minimum

possibility of embarrassment to Bureau?

An additional thirty day period is being requested

as the previous thirty day period has not been productive of the

desired information.

On 10/24/61, the US Post Office Inspectors advised that

Mr. and Mrs.,

D. GREENDLINGER received

a Ist class foreign letter

dated 10/16/61, on which the sender's

name, return address, and postmark

were reported as illegible.

In view of fact

that MARTIN GREENDLINGEF

could have been the sender of this letter the USPO is now being requested

to forward mail tracings on illegible mail.

-

ЗА ИЗОНИ CONFIDEUTAL®

DocId: 32325775

Page 2

---

