# docid-32332189

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90100-10407

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

52-72398-9

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Case#:NH 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

Cv

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

10/20/1958

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

THEFT OF 318 WEAPON, 16 BLANKETS, 1 CARBINE RACK,

FROM OHIO

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 54027

2

DocId: 32332189

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36

Transmit the föllowing in

Via AIRTEL

FB1

Date: 10/20/58

PLAIN TEXT •

AIR MAIL

TO:

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, CLEVELAND (52-1918)

UNSUBS; Theft of 318. Weapons,

16 Blankets One-Carbine-Rack.

from Ohio"National Guard Armory,

Canton. 0h10 10/14/58.

TGP; NEUTRALITY MATTERS

(00: CV)

Re Cleveland teletype to Bureau 10/14/58 and Cleveland airtels

to Bureau 10/15/58 and 10/17/58.

VIOLA BESSIE KRAJCIK, wa Sally, (whose identity must be pro-

tecteal, 1515 Lincoln Way West, Wooster, Ohio, advised 10/16/58 she

is employed by Wooster Rubber Co., in the production control dept.,

She served in the WAC from 1952 to 1955, and was in Military

Intelligence in Germany for 22 months.

She Is a former girlfriend of LOUIS MARTINEZ, having broken

up wIth him in September, 1958, after going with him for three years.

3 Bureau

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

2-Miami

HERBIN IS

ASSIFIED

2-Milwaukee •

2-Newark

DATE

5/129

3-New York

2-San Juan

1-Washington Field Office

REC 57

3-Cleveland

521-72

15-9

HEW/mrf

(183)

14 OCT 22 1958

11 Approved:

Special Agent

in Charge -

OCT 29

1958 -

Sent

M Per

NW 54027 DooId: 32332189 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 52-1918

She has known for some time that MARTINEZ has been working on behalf

of the Cuban Rebel forces to obtain arms and equipment for them.

MARTINEZ, who is an attorney has told informant that he is legally

engaged in this activity and assists the rebels in obtaining

export

11censes for equipment.

One associate of MARTINEZ iS MARTIN RUTHFORD, 535 W.11lth,

New York City, who la an industrial enfineer for ame enterprise

company. RUTHFORD's telephone number is ACademy 2-0872, and informant

has determined MARTINEZ's whereabouts on previous occasions by calling

RUTHFORD.

RUTHFORD is a demolition expert, having served in this

capacity in the Armed Forces and was to do a demolition job for Cuban

rebels on ammunition supply of Battista Government. RUTHFORD was to

receive $375,000 for this job, half of which was to go to MARTINEZ.

RUTHFORD 18 described as male, white, 6'2", blonde hair,

fair complexion, 36, wears black patch over right eye, has even white

teeth, medium build.

Informant advised that MARTINEZ's activities on behalf of

the Cuban rebels has only come to her attention since March or April

of this year.

Another associate of MARTINEZ IS PETER LEBLOVICH, Montclair,

New Jersey.

Several months ago LEBLOVICH was supposed to have given

MARTINEZ $30,000 to obtain weapons, which was lost.

Informant stated

that MARTINEZ has blamed hor for the loss because he was coming to

Ohio to see her after receiving this money so he gave 1t to another

fellow who was to complete the transaction for the weapons.

Either

the money was stolen by this individual or lost in some manner because

MARTINEZ has been held responsible by the Cuban Rebels for 1ts loss,

and they have apparently been pressing him for the money or the arms.

or August, 1958, MARTINEZ. was in

Informant said that in June, July $30, 000 for the man who had it had

British Honduras checking on the

disappeared either from New York or Washington, D. C. Informant said

on one occasion MARTINEZ showed her a check for $27,000 which

LEBLOVICH was supposed to have given him.

She said MARTINEZ was

prone to boast when he was doing well but if things were going badly

for him he was not talkative.

Informant continued that in either July or August, 1958,

MARTINEZ was in Toronto, Candan, negotiating the purchase of 10

surplus righter planes.

MARTINEZ had invited her to meet him in

Toronto, which she did. She said she saw these planes which were

-2-

NW 54027 DooId:32332189 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CV 52-1918

silver in color at the Municipal Airport In Toronto. MARTINEZ had

engaged 4 Panamanian pilots to fly the planes from Canada; but

although they were permitted to travel to the United States, the

Canadian Authorities would not allow them to enter Canada to pilot

Informant stated that it is her understand-

ing that the planes are now in New Jersey, possibly around LEBLOVICH's

home, but she was unable to furnish information as to how they were

piloted there.

While In Toronto, two men from Milwaukee were there with

MARTINEZ.

One whom she knew as "VIC" had his wife with him.

"VIC"

was 5'3"

, 60 years of age, thin build.

The other she knew as MERLIN.

She gathered from their conversation that both were American Indug-

She said that

one time, formerly served in the Canadian Air Force, and had an

expensive home now in Milwaukee.

Informant stated that in the three years that she dated

MARTINEZ she frequently went to New York for a weekend and usually

stayed at the Edison Hotel. In May, 1958, she went to New York and

presumed she would stay at the Edison Hotel; however, MARTINEZ

obtained a room for her at the Manhatten Hotel.

She stated that. the

reason for this was that MARTINEZ was meeting with a group of men

whom she assumed to be Cuban Rebels at the Edison Hotel, and for this

reason he had her stay at the Manhatten so as not

to Involve her in

his affairs.

She stated that one of the men meeting with MARTINEZ

had also brought his wife and she, too, stayed at the Manhatten Hotel.

She did not recall the name of this woman, nor did she know the names

of any of the men meeting with MARTINEZ.

Informant stated that whenever she was with MARTINEZ she

was

passed off to others in the group as MARTINEZ's secretary from his law

office in Canton, Ohio. She said that often the people who were with

MARTINEZ spoke Spanish and she, not being able to understand Spanish,

did not know what they were discussing.

Informant said MARTINEZ told her that a girl named "BLANCA,"

which in Spanish is supposed to mean the "fair one

was hauling guns

from New York to Miami in her suitcases and was supposed to make these

trips frequently. She said "BLANCA" and JOSE

MORALES were in

Canton, Ohio, in April or May, 1958, and stayed at the Ambassador

Motel.

She

stated MORALES is

also working for the Cuban Rebels cause.

MORALES and MARTINEZ left the motel while she and "BIANCA" stayed at

-3-

NW 54027 DooId: 32332189 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CV 52-1918

the motel.

Another friend and close associate of MARTINEZ is NICK

TRIkILls, who is the owner of the Air and Air Corp., Wooster, Ohio.

She said

that TRIKILIS is also interested in the Cuban Rebels cause.

Informant states that MARTINEZ spends much of his time in

Miami, Florida, and usually stays at the Ponce DeLeon Hotel or the

Dupont Plaza.

He has told her that Castro's Cuban Rebels are paying

for his expenses.

Informant stated that FRANCISCO BARONA ALONSO, Who 1s

supposed to be the next president of Cuba when CASTRO 1s victorious,

was also in Canton, Ohio, at the same time that MORALES was there.

ALONSO stayed at the home of PAUL CALVO, who lives on the northwest

corner of Rice and Third Street, NE.

On the day after ALONSO was

there she drove MARTINEZ to CALVO's home and he entered the house and

returned with a small package which MARTINEZ carried to his parent's

home about 3 houses away. She later drove MARTINEZ to Cleveland to

Sometime after he had made the trip he

told informant that the package he obtained from CALVO contained a

bomb which he had taken in his suitcase on the plane for Miami.

Informant stated that MARTINEZ usually took Eastern Airlines Flight

736 from Cleveland Hopkins Airport to Miami and took a plane from

Canton-Akron, 0h10, Airport if he was flying to New York.

duss

САД

Informant stated MARTINEZ frequently visited the Spanish

Center in Canton, Ohio, when he was in Canton and once during the

1o-vus

Rett

past summer when the Spanish Fiesta was held, MARTINEZ was accompanied

by a young boy who made a speech in an effort to solicit funds for

what he termed a Cuban Educational Fund for students. The collection

was not fruitful and MARTINEZ later made a comment to her that those

in attendance were not interested in helping their own kind.

Informant advised that a man she knew as MIKE DUGAN or

- DUNCAN waS also in Toronto with MARTINEZ and his group when they

purchased the surplus planes. She stated this man was from White

Plains, New York, Telephone number, WH 8-9430. Informant said

MARTINEZ had given MIKE her telephone number at one time so that he

could contact her for MARTINEZ if necessary. She added that MIKE was

supposed to buy a surplus army "Duck" which he was going to convert

for his personal use.

Informant said she had seen scraps of paper belonging to

MARTINEZ in which notations appeared thereon concerning purchase of .

B.A.R. surplus rifles.

mention that he was making contacts somewhere in Brooklyn, NY for the

purchase of B.A.R. rifles for the Cuban Rebels.

-4-

NW 54027 DooId:32332189 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CV 52-1918

Informant indicated that MARTINEZ had mentioned

that he intended getting medicinal supplies in New York for

MORALES and was going to pass MORALES off as a medical student.

Informant said she presumed from the conversation that this was

to involve a large shipment of supplies to be destined for the

Cuban Rebels.

Intormant stated that MARTINEZ was promoting the

building of a Pan American Building

in Cleveland, Ohio but that

Cleveland officials were not interested and he later tried to

get such a building erected in Miami, Florida. MARTINEZ advised

such a structure would promote better harmony

among the American

countries.

The backing for such a building was to come from

Insurance Companies in South America or the United States.

MARTINEZ made frequent trips to Caracas, Venezuela, and in

July or August 1958 he called from Miami

and said he was going

to go "across the water which she took to mean Cuba.. She said

MARTINEZ has stated that he met with CASTRO, the head of the

Cuban Rebels, in the past.

Informant said that although she had no definite in-

formation she would presume that any arms which were transported

to Miami from New York would end up at the Trade Winds Hotel,

Miami, which is where FRANCISCO BARONA ALONSO stays while he

is

in Miami.

It 1s informant's opinion that ALONSO spends most of

his time in Florida.

Informant said MARTINEZ has an

associate in West-

chester, New York by the name of TOATER (Ph).

Informant stated MARTINEZ owes her $340 which she

has loaned him over a period of time and

she has been seeking

repayment of this debt since she broke up with MARTINEZ.

She said MARTINEZ called on September 9, 1958, and

said that he was going to up-state New York and

then to Miami

and would be in Canton, Ohio on Monday or Tuesday, October 13

or 14 and he didn't want her to tell anyone where he was going

to be.

Informant stated

that MARTINEZ was explicit in telling

her that he was going to be in up-state New York and then Miami,

then Canton, and she did not know why he made such a point of

- 5 -

NW 54027 DooId: 32332189 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CV 52-1918

making this clear to her. At this time MARTINEZ also asked

her to obtain $20 which a friend owed him and send it by

Money Order to him at the main office of Western Union, New

York, which she did.

He promised to send informant the $340

he owed her on October 11, 1958 but to date 1t has not been re-

ceived.

Informant said that she had no definite information that

MARTINEZ was responsible for the theft of instant weapons at

the Canton Armory but when she read it in the newspaper she

immediately thought that he would be the logical person to

dispose of such a quantity of arms and that he possibly had done

so to make up for the weapons he failed to get when he lost the

$30,000 given him by the Cuban Rebels for this purpose.

Informant stated MARTINEZ flew everywhere he went,

does not own a car but on September 11, 1958 whenhe visited

her in Canton he was driving a 1957 two-tone green Cadillac,

bearing Ohio license N-224-T which he had borrowed from a friend

in Canton.

Informant said that in early September, 1958 she re

ceived a telephone call from two individuals identifying them-

selves as THOMPSON and MARDIGO and they were interested in learn-

ing of MARTINEZ' whereabouts.

She refused to give them any

information.

On September 15, 1958, while driving to her home

she was forced from the road by two

men in a black Packard

bearing Ohio license, number unobserved, who again asked her

about MARTINEZ' whereabouts and she refused to give them any

information.

She said she was offered $5,000 for this in-

formation and the men stated they had seen her in MARTINEZ'

company the weekend before in New York, which informant statéd

was true.

When she refused to tell them anything they slapped

her around before letting her go. When she later told

MARTINEZ of this he asked her why she didn't report it to the

police, to which she replied if she had done so she would have

had to

tell them all she knew about him.

Informant said MARTINEZ has access to a private

plane because he flew from Miami to New York on the occasion

that he went to Toronto. While In Toronto they stayed at the

Conroy Hotel registered under the names of SALLY KRAJCIK, and:

LOUIS MARTINEZ. She stated MARTINEZ has always used his own

- 6 -

NW 54027 DooId:32332189 Page 7

---

## Page 8

CV 52-1918

name in registering at any hotel and she has always called him

at various hotels under his own name.

Informant said that on the weckend of July 25, 1958

a conference was held in Room 1313 of the Manhattan Hotel, New

York, with MARTINEZ and Cuban Rebels in attendance and it

was

shortly after this that RUTHFORD was to go to cuba to pull a

Low any on of president BATISTA'E dramunition. she da not

those in attendance at the meetingsince she was not

there.

Informant said she once tried to reach MARTINEZ at

the Ponce de Leon Hotel in Miami and was given the number

Franklin 32988 where he could be reached in Miami and when she

called this number MARTINEZ answered.

On another occasion when

she called this number the person answering said it was the

Bel Air Corp. and MARTINEZ was unknown there.

FRED L. BAILEY advised on October 16, 1958,

that on

October 13, 1958 on Flight 737 from Cleveland to Miami and Flight

145 from Miami to San Juan, MARTINEZ and BONIFACIO were

passengers on this flight.

On October 16, 1958, on Flight 749

from Cleveland to Miami, and Flight 145 from Miami to San Juan,

MARTINEZ and RUFINO were passengers on this flight to arrive

In San Juan at 1:00 PM On October 16, 1958.

MARTINEZ. is known to Canton PD as former attorney who

frequently passed worthless checks and it is reported that his

parents have paid off $20,000 in worthless checks which

MARTINEZ has passed throughout the country.

MARTINEZ is described as

crippled left arm.

LEADS

MAIMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

Will make discreet inquiry at Trade Winds Hotel

and ascertain if FRANCISCO BARONA ALONSO is staying there!

-7

HH

54027 DocId: 32332189 Page 8

---

