# docid-32291860

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10136

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2079

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MEX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/22/1967

4

SGI, ASSOC, CLARK, BERGIT, SUR, RES, CUERNAVACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32291860

Page 1

145

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recoris

CoTection Aot

050*

Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CLASSTFIER DESTITANS FINALIZED

E: DET

12:82

•CONNETIES (DRC)

DATE: 8/20/85

SEVIET

SIDE REVERSE

9-112 AIRTEL

4/1143

Ben 153-2% A59A

Declassic

EXEMPT FROM G

He Men Delan (99-2-312-25 PATE DA:

•CATIO

192-3171

8/22/1

PROM: NY

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13) P

GLASS

ION

CIES "

ON

RE:

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, aka

5668 suo/Ga

IEW

SEFRUPNLATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD CRTIERS

ADVESTO TY

ON 1000. 90....

Re Mexico City letter dated 8/17/67.

EXCEr!

OTHEST

8/21/

MEX 42 and MEX 196, Mexico City surveillance

informants who have furnished reliable information in the past,

advised they had conducted extensive surveillances in the

Cuernavaca area over the past weekend in an effort to locate

subject or BERGIT CLARK.

Efforts were concentrated at the

Rancho Tetela subdivision and the golf club but have been

unproductive

te, date.

he following information was received on 8/18/67

VEX 170* who has furnished reliable information in the past:

Source confirmed by pretext interview that telephone

number 2-61-75 is located in the residence at Netzahualcoyotl

in Cuernavaca.

The current Cuernavaca telephone directory listd33

the number in

the name of DAWSON BRAY at this address.

The

¿individual for the State of Morelos.

in racet or the state a 168, i if daco as it ide

Pretext inquiry at the house determined that it is

currently vacant and under repair.

It is near the cathedral

in the center of town,

part of a block of reconstructed colonial

DATE

houses in town house fashion.

By Cuernavaca standards it would

be moderate in price.

Workmen advised that Mr. BRAY returned

to the United States

and that the present owner 1s a Mrs. ALLENN

who is also currently in

the United States, address unknown.

6 - Bureau

2 - Mexico City

(1 - 137-50A)

RSC : gmh

(8)

icodod

EX 106

[.:

3A6 AUG 28-1967

18.98

Bishop

acoCs.

829167

EXEMP1

1957)

DocId: 32291860

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Dr T992 711 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

1:3117

MEX 92-13

distance from this house,

in most cases five or six blocks.

In lact,

there is no residence in the

any sort of view of this property. @

Eginity which commands

In back of this property is a deep canyon, and across

windows of the house at Nubes 2 with optical aid. Because

Eaten pile, tReme ie no way to deerve the enminds or

Datsun sedan with Morelos license RJ 267 was observed

parked in front of Nubes 2.1

It was determined that this license is registered to

MARIO COLOSSIA GARCIA, Morelos 904-9 Interior, Cuernavaca.

appears that this may be a tradesman or repairman, and attempts

will be made to determine his background with an eye toward

posalble approach to him. @ (W)

It is noted that

Chicago airtel 8/8/67 refers to source

in GIANCANA household.

It should be pointed out that Mexico City

has no source in the GIANCANA household. Further, it 1s believed

that any attempt to directly develop such a source would be

counterproductive and contrary to instructions concerning

extreme discretion and no open inquiries and that the Bureau'

interest An ENDolE Location alula be in no nay revealed C

The information from the housekeeper was given to

apparents vas are, anne do constrate on set received ou

apparently was lase

The MEXICO CITY DAILY BULLETIN, a local throw-away

publication, for 8/12/67 contained a column,

"Cut and Print It,"

by HELEN GOULD, datelined Las Vegas and referring to the purchas.

of the Desert Inn by HOWARD HUGHES. She reports as follows:

Phylis McGuire 1s booked into the DI with the

McGuire Sisters act (probably a booking made before

the HH regime) and boyfriend Sam Giancanno

right along. It's rumored he even bought "His"

"Her" houses for them, so it looks l1ke

they'll be around Vegas, and Sam - who was the

3

508-10139

DocId: 32291860

Page 3

---

