# docid-32556718

## Page 1

3/16/66

Airtel

MAILED 10

MAR 1 7 1966

COMM-FBI

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

*Felt

Gale

•Rosen

Sullivar

T'avel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes *-

Gandy -

To: LEGATS, London

Bonn

ROMBEC. 48

From: Director, FBI

Paris

Bern

92-31820-1133

GUS ALEX, aka

ANTI-RACKETEERING

The subject, a top hoodlum of the Chicago Office,

submitted a request on March 11, 1966, to the Passport Agency,

Chicago, for permission to travel abroad next June.

Alex indicated he would depart from either New York

or Chicago via Trans World Airlines and indicated the trip

was for pleasure purposes. The countries to be visited were

listed as France, Germany, Italy, England and Greece.

The

subject indicated he planned to visit for two months

and

Iisted the person to be contacted in case of emergency as

Eugene Bernstein, a well-known Chicago hoodlum tax attorney.

Chicago has indicated possibility that Alex will

be accompanied by his paramour Suzanne Fieger although no

information presently available concerning her possible

travel with Alex.

Legats requested to alert appropriate contacts

and the Bureau will furnish further details on proposed

trävel when received from Chicago.

1 - Chicago

(info) 1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

Cleared with M. Gregorio and

sorrect: route througeview

Alex, a top hoodlum of the CGO, regularly visits Europe

on vaction trips and is suspected of handling financial transactions

in Europe, especially Switzerland, for Chicago hoodlum group.

Alex is currently under a travel ban imposed by the Swiss authoritie

which prohibits his re-entry into that country. Legats being

advised in order that they can alert their contacts in anticipation

of proposed travel by Alex.

All Legats previously furnished with

background and descriptive data on Alex and Fueger.

JGL: bsn

MAILYROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

53

M. GREGORIO CONTIO

NW 45679 DooId: 32556718 Page 1

---

