# docid-32325223

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-90035-10120

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 122-2424-135

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 45703 Date:

11-16-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 01/12/1960

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

06/04/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

COMMENTS:

AT, REFERRED TO DOJ

HH 45703 DocId: 32325223

Page 1

---

## Page 2

§ (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

1/12/60

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

• Mr.

Tolson.--

Mr.

Mohr.

Mr. Parsons.

1 Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. DoLoach

Mr. Malone.

Mr.

McGr

Mr.

Rose

Mr.

Tamn

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gan

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (122-2424)

FROM:

SAC, WEO

1(122-464)

ROBERT BERNARD

BAKER,

aka: ET AL

IMRA, 1947 (IM), PERJURY

(00: PG)

Re reps DAMON W. PITCHER, 12/21/59, Pittsburgh, and

EDWARD W. PENNYPACKER, 12/30/59, WFO.

Documents requested in leads in referenced Pittsburgh

report located in possession of PLATO CACHERIS, Department of

Justice Attorney, who will hold them for trial to be produced

by N. C. MC DERMOTT, Postmaster, U.S.

Post Office, Mckees

Rocks, Pennsylvania, and F. M. LACEY®

While discussing matter, CACHERIS and ABRAHAM PORETZ,

Department of Justice Attorney, stated desire to have all

ESCO checks for 1957 examined for direct and possible indirect

payments to WIINHEIMER during that year,

in order to preclude

possible defense assertion that WEINHEIMER had received checks

by registered mail during critical periods.

In order to have pertinent records of asco reviewed

Pittsburgh is requested to immediately contact ESCO, obtain

and forward to WFO:

(1) All ESCO industrial and salary checks for 1957

that have not previously been turned over to the Department;

(2). All payroll records including W-2 Form with

regard to WEINHEIMER's salary or compensation:

Should difficulty

no encountered in obtainino these records. cutel Bureau and

WFO by 1/14/60 in order that CACHERIS may

issue

a subpoena for

ESCO to produce the records before FGJ, WDC, on

1/20/60.

3-Bureau

2-Pittsburgh (122-97)

9-1-PGEWFO

C - Wick

EX 109!

22-

3.5

6RDNN 20

papie Charge

Sent

_M

Per

NW 45703 DooId: 32325223

Page 2

---

