# docid-32289651

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10427

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-106633-X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/16/1962

23

FCH, TEAMSTERS UNION, ASSOC, TRA, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, LTR, LHM

DOLId: 32289651

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

DATE: 11-14-2017

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

..- of..

Domestic Intelligence Division.

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date -

1/19/62

The attached data was received by

us from the Police of Puerto Rico who in

turn received it from a paid source in

the local of the Teamsters Union

there.

The data alleges that Chavez, acting for

James Hoffa,

has been involved in schemes

to restore followers of the dead dictator,

Trujillo, to power in Dominican Republic

and to overthrow Castro regime in Cuba

with idea of later facilitating the

organizing efforts of the Teamsters Union

in those countries.

Letters being

prepared transmitting attached memorandum

to Attorney General, Secretary of State

and O'Donnell "atolhite House.

GCM: ams

YECEINED-QILE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

U: DATO 24-94 BIPS Maud

(SFK).

DocId: 32289651

Page

---

## Page 3

Releaset.ander.cthe.dohn

Hotere

RT 1511-7a4211

Kenu

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-494 USC

2101

FIB I

1/16/62

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

Date:

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DATE 072419448 5P8-MA

10:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

SACO

SAN JUAN (105-New)

FRANK, CHAVEZ aka MEran

INTERNALI SECURITY-DOMINICAN REPUB ZIC

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA.

Enc losed herewith are nine coples of a. letterhead

memorandum and nine coptes

oftan Informant

evaluation memorandun

dated and captioned as above at san Juan, fuerto Rico.

letterhead memorandum haver been forwarded

Extra coptes of this airtel and the enclosed

for inclusion in

Bureau 511e 92-5361-Criminal Influence in International Teamsters

Union Loca1, 901, San Juan,

Puerto Rico-Anti Racketeering

Bureau 105-3 1139S 02V52 and 105-53901 PARTURO ESPALAT

The source 18

eleutenant RAFARI ALVARILO TELC

Operations Divlston Police of puerto Rico (POPR).

Dy SAUS, JOSEPH F

This information was obtained on January 16, 1962

CUNNINGHAM, JR, and RICHARD S, BETER

during

6-Bureau (RM)

ic airbl tremo rettined by

cepa

New York

FC.

(105-New)2

(1-92-65)

1-159-12)

JAINE: AMADOR)

CATE A Influenca in Internati 105 106633 X

1-159-17) (FRANK CHAVEZ)

LET

JAN: 2hc

(13) 2

10 AG

DAG

PAGI

Emiler

LESTATO

AAG.

21/62

URIE

Gơm

aт5,n con

NUAN 18 1962

b. EM

Approved:

fC. C a Wick

Sent

Special

DooId: 32289651 Page 3

REQ REC:

---

## Page 4

Note):

DATE :

11-14-2017

201-10427

JAN 18

5 40 PM '62

RECID

DOM INTELL DIY.

13!

Spen

184

296 Hd 09$

JAN 25

G3A/202804

SPECIAL INVESTIDATIVE

Somers

DRA:

Cre COPIES MADE

1/71

NiE 60A5

S/OR DELIr

chur

10743

VITO WARE

GaST WATED

ATer 20000-5 62107290).

7218

DOMIST

.1*4

11506624

: 33m

iii.

U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE

1. 32289651 Page 1

TIaT

HIE.

JAM 29

'.i;

VA 250.

1 57 29 40701

JẠN 26

Kremles ins

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Note) : • DATE:' 11-14-2017

• SJ 105-New

the course of investigation being conducted in the case entitled

"Criminal Influence in International Teamsters Union, Local

901, San Juan, Puerto Rico, ANTI-RACKETEERING" mentioned above.

Lieutenant ALVAREZ advised that the information

a curate the Ve PeR on To e Relations

Informant of the Police Department and operating under the

cover name of 'ACE"•

Lieutenant ALVAREZ advised that "ACE" could

furnish no other information other than that set out and was

unable to furnish any additional details regarding this Informa-

Because of the informantis position with the

Teamsters Union, the POPR is concerned about protecting his

identity and believes that if the informant's identity were

known, It would be difficult to obtain information of the nature

this informant can furnish.

The letterhead memorandum is being marked "Confi-

dential" in that it contains information furnished by "ACE"

a confidential informant of the POPR, who is a highly placed

Teamsters official and should his identity become known, it

will destroy his future effectiveness and may endanger his

life.

No local dissemination 1s being made In that

such local dissemination couldreasonably result in the identi-

fication of the aforementioned source:

Careful consideration has been given to the source

concealed and his identity was concealed only in those instances

where necessary.

San 'Juan Office continuing contacts with Lieutenant

ALVAREZ and information obtained from him will be reported in

pertinent individual cases:

-2-

DocId: 32289651

Page 5

---

