# docid-32294826

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10214-10102

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-149

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased-NT 45737 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

PEARCE, J. ROBERT

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/20/1961

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ABR, GAMBLING ACT, ASSOC, BANK RECORDS, BKG

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 11(a)

Redact

10/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

y9.1

HH 45737

DocId: 32294826

Page 1

74

---

## Page 2

PH 92-444

*1.

Should

fully review and evaluate papers

relating to the purchase and sale of Cigarette Distributors,

Inc., Northwest 54th Street, by ANGELO BRUNO, SUE BRUNO

and others. In this regard,

the will of IRVING CAREY,

if probated, should establish the value of his interest

in Cigarette Distributors, Inc.

*2. Will locate and interview the widow of

IRVING CAREY

to ascertain details of the sale of her

husband's interest in this company to SUE BRUNO.

It

should be noted that ANGELO BRUNO has in the past been

associated with IRVING CAREY in the Aluminum Products

Sales Corporation, Hialeah, Fla.

*3. Miami, through contact with the Internal

Revenue Service and other sources, establish if ANGELO BRUNO

was an owner of record of any of the shares of the

Aluminum Products Sales Corporation for the last five

vears. considering that BRUNO

and that he owned two shares and

MICHAEL BRUNO, his son, owned 48 shares of the corporation's

stock which was established in prior investigation.

#4. Will, if feasible, establish a trash cover

on the residence of CHARLES I. COSTELLO.

*5. Will fully report all contacts made by

BRUNO in the Miami Division.

*6. Will identify subscriber to Miami, Fla.,

telephone Plaza 7-2624, which was called from BRUNO's

residence.

JFK Law 11(a)

7.

Will note that the residence of CHARLES I.

COSTELLO, during the summer of 1960 was vacant and utilize

this information to continue efforts to establish a

confidential source of information in regard to ANGELO

BRUNO.

COVER PAGE

ARS

REVIEWED BY WIFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/24/98 dad

REL SE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL CEMAL

92-2717-149

HW 45737 DocId:32294826 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-41,4

T-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

T -5

INFORMANTS

MARY THOMAS, Bell Telephone Company

of Pennsylvania, on dates as indicated

.ens..ue

.... :

PH 269-C, as indicated to SA DALE

M. HIESTAND

PH 591-C*

PH 523-0 to SA J. ROBERT PEARCE

NY 3223-0*

T-6

I-7

T-8

T-9

T-10

I-Ii

CS NY-1 to IC THOMAS I. MC GUINNES

EDWARD L, BRAUNE, Agent, New York

l'elephone Company, to SA EDWARD V.

SCHNEIDER, 3/23/61

37336-C, to SA ROBERT W. HOMES,

Income tax returns of BRUNO received

by Bureau letter 4/3/61

MM 727-C, on 3/8/61

PSI [

JFK Act 6 (4)

COVER PAGE

HH 45737

DocId: 32294826

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

Bureau letter 3/23/61 requested Philadelphia

Division to set out in report form information previously

reported in the Administrative section of report of

SA J. ROBERI PEARCE 3/6/61, in

regara to the

"commission."

PH 514-C advised that PH 514-C's brother,

MARSHAL VENEZIALE, was murdered in Philadelphia in 12/54.

This informant has always believed that BRUNO was

responsible for this murder.

Bureau letter 3/10/61 advised that fingerprints

Of CARL IPPOLITO, MICHAEL TRAMANTANA and FRANK POLLASTRELLI

were not identical to latents of value

on file in the

Identification Division.

Of PHILIP TESTA.

a 1960 Oldsmobile with 27,482 miles thereon, inspection

sticker #1430, has ignition key #9161 and trunk key

#8012.

It is serviced at the llth Street Esso Service

Station, Philadelphia.

It is registered in the name'of

MARIE TESTA, 918 South 10th Street.

The contents of

this car, according to SA JOHN F. PHELAN, 3/23/61,

provided no additional information.

The interview of ANGELO BRUNO by the Philadelphia

Police Department was recorded. The verbatim transcript

waS

furnished this division by Deputy Commissioner

DAVID MALONE 4/4/61.

This is being incorporated into

Philadelphia file and the pertinent portions thereof

have been

set forth in this report.

Q* -

COVER PAGE

HH 45737

DocId: 32294826 Page 1

---

## Page 5

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

J. ROBERT PEARCE.

APR L' 1901

92-444

ANGELO BRUNO •

Office:

Bureau File #:

Philadelphia, Pennsylva'"

92-2717

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

ANGELO BRUNO, upon return to Philadelphia from Miami, Fla.,

3/22/61, questioned by Philadelphia PD and results are set

forth.

BRUNO apparently, according to business papers

on person,

has interest in Maquinas de Diversiones, C. Para, Dominican

Republic, which one informant relates controls all slot machines

in operation in the Dominican Republic under direct supervision

Of VIRGILLO ALVAREZ PENNA, uncle of Dominican Republic's

connected with this company in Dominican Republic and known to

BRUNO. FROMKIN may be connection for BRUNO in this regard. Bank

records checked and results set forth regarding BRUNO and family

According to another source of information BRUNOl

JEK Law 11(a)

Another informant relates BRUNO's interest in gambling in New

Jersey area and his authority to set policy in this operation.

This source discloses close relationship between PETER MAGGIO,

Numerous associates or contacts of

BRUNO developed and set forth.

One informant

BRUNO 1s "a representative of

the commission, " Inal is thentified

by an additional informant as being a group controlling racket

activity. throughout the United States and Canada.

BECAUSE BRUNO

IS ATLECED IO HAVE COMMITTED GANGIAND EXECUTIONS. IN THE PAST, HE

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

922717149

-P-

ALL INFORMADOR CONTAINED

TAILS :

At Philadelphia, Pa.

HERE IS UNGLAGSIIEO

DATE 11/23/81

#211, 326

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside your agency.

HH

45737 DooId: 32294826 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-444

T-3 stated that from information he had

learned, It was definite that BRUNO could direct the

activities of SAILOR and tell SAILOR whomhe should turn

his numbers into.

He said that he was told that SAILOR

did not want to associate with CHARLES, apparently

CHARLES COSTELLO, as this would take 50 per cent of

SAILOR's profits and that SAILOR did not like COSTELLO

because COSTELLO had a mean temper. T-3. said it was

31so. indicated that SAILOR did not want to have a

"time

clock" in his office, which T-3 believed was a machine

to receive race horse results. SAILOR did not want this

activity because there was no escape in the event of a

police raid as the machines would be evidence, whereas

in the numbers operation,

he could hide the papers.

I-3 said also that SAILOR believed that he was not in

the good graces of BRUNO because he had promised BRUNO

during a recent meeting thathe would reaffiliate with

CHARLES, with whom SAILOR had severed relations approxi-

mately three years ago in December. I-3 said that

BRUNO told SAILOR's son got out of line.

E. LEGITIMATE BUSINESS

Philadelphia Confidential Informant T-9 advised

that

JFK

Law 11(a)

T-2 has previously indicated that BRUNO had an

interest in a vending machine business and

music machine

business, which was a combined operation with offices in

Miami Beach, Fla.

Previous investigation has reported an

interview of HARRY ZIMAND, owner of the Acme Music ano

Vending Company, 1504 Alton Road, Miami Beach, Fla., who,

on March 8, 1961, advised that he did not know BRUNO by

-38-

92-2717-149

NW 45737 DooId: 32294826 Paqe 6

---

