# docid-32300998

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/22/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10277-10333

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-80291-76

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DONAHOE, S. B

TO:

. SULLIVAN, W. C

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/29/1961

6

DEB, BKG, ASSOC, LT, CRIMINAL ACT, BRIBERY,

SMUGGLING ARMS, ACA, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RAPSHEET

v9.1

DocId: 32300998

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"ORSONAL FORT, NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVEY

RENT

Memorandùm

TO

Me do sulliva

Tolson

Belmont =

Mohr

Callahan-

Conrad

Deloach -

vans

USES

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

FROM

: So Bo Donahoe

SECRET

DATE: JUne 29?

12696

- Belmont CLASSIFIED BY 5668-SED TE

Evans

Rosen

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Wo Co Sullivan

- Donahoe

- Nasca

7. 2'3:9 sclash

SUBJECT: DOMINICK EDWARD. BARTONE

IS - CUBA

REGISTRALION ACT - CUBA

SE IN PART

Are bine

Cleveland Office has advised that departmental Attorney

Etant Jo

Kiernan

has expressed desire to discuss with SA Michael H.

„Tarren subject's possible criminal activities. Cleveland plans to

ON

Enold such discussions 6-29-61 without reference to reports or

Lother communications unless advised to contrary by Bureal.

Kiernan

is attorney in Criminal Division and purpose of inquiry not known.

However, Department has reports in security case which kiernan nas

possibly seen.

We are advising Cleveland that contents of reports

can be discussed but otherwise to find out what kiernan wants and

advise Bureau.

subject was born 8-8-13, New York City, and is Cleveland

businessman.

In view of his involvement in Latin-American matters

we have been closely following his activities to determine if they

sity

are such as to require his registration under Registration Act.

subject was arrested 5-22-59, by customs, Miami, along

with others,

in connection with attempted bribery of Customs

officials nd departure of munitions-laden plane for Dominican

Republic.

"Arms involved were to be used to equip anti-Castro

exiles there.

«Investigation disclosed subject enjoyedestose

relationship with Dominican Consul General, Miami, and was reportedlyr

Friendly with Williom Alexander Morgan, expatriated American soldier

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEFZ

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

of fortune,

executed by Castro, March,

1901. subject plead guilty

to charge of smuggling arms and on 12-30-59 was placed: on three

years probation and fined $10,000.

Subject, in April, 1960,

Dominican secretary of state without portfolidein Miami.

duised this officialsthat for $300, 000 he was prepared to stage

bombing attack against castralfor Dominican Republic S Subjec

laimed he had necessary planes and pilots for use in

such attack

nich would be lounched from outside U.S. Dominican official refusee

subject's proposal?

In December,

19od-boustoms,

Miami, advised" it learned

Max Garcia, Tampa, Florida,

had gone

Enclosures

105-80291

VHN: ss: bef

HERE T

to alter at emanze funde

105-80291

56 JUL'11 1968

DocId: 32300998

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(ReTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RET

Memo Donahoe to Sullivan

Re:

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

105 - 80291

under orders of subject to locate buyer for arms.

Garcia was to

look for legitimate proposition and then turn matter over to subject.

Garcia did not know where subject intended to get the arms but

surmised they would come from Europe. It is noted Garcia naü been in

touch with the Dominicans S

Investigation has also disclosed that subject is official

of Servicios Internacionales, S. do, a Panamanian Corporation.

Edward Browder, Jr.,

is also affiliated with this corporation.

Browder was convicted of violation of Neutrality Act in late 1940's

and was convicted in June, 1959,

and April, 1960, in connection with

the receiving of over $136,000 in stolen canadian bonas.

Browder is

presently out on bond pending appeals of these convictions.

on 6-30-59 subject appeared before Senate Select Committee

on Improper Management in the Labor and Management Field. Subject's

attorney requested Committee to dismiss subject as witness since

subject was then under indictment for conspiring to smuggle arms.

Committee granted request.

subject has also been allegedly associated with various

enterprises in Cleveland and Toledo,

Ohio, with hoodlums and racket

figures.

Included among these is Louis "Babe" Iriscaro, noted

Cleveland labor racketeer and William Joseph Conrad. Conrad was

sentenced in 1959, to 18 mönths in Federal Penitentiary for selling

$50, 000 of worthless uranium stocks to Toledo residents. Subject

President of uranium company.

One source in February, 1960,

advised subject claimed to have been bondsman for Frank Costello

and other such racketeers. Source commented he did not believe

anyone who so acted would ever talk about it, and in his opinion

whatever subject said could be discounted about 99 per cent.

subject's identification record, FBI Number 440 734 0

copy attached) shows arrest in 1956 for issuing checks with

insufficient funds as well as arrest for arms smuggling.

We have

furnished copies of reports concerning subject to Department,

Customs, as well as to other interested agencies.

Discussion of subject's possible criminal activities with

Departmental Attorney will not affect our inquiries and there is no

objection to such discussion.

SECRET

= 2 -

DocId: 32300998 Page 3

---

