# docid-32304717

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10347

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-621

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

SAC, SD

FROM: DARECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/23/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ASSOC, MEMBERS, IDENT, PHOTO, RACK ACT, B/F

INT, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32304717 Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE:

4/23/64

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229) (P)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00: New York)

Re San Diego letter to the Bureau, 12/6/63 and

2/24/64, captioned as above.

INFORMATION SET FORTH IN THIS LETTER SHOULD NOT BE

DISSEMINATED TO ANYONE OUTSIDE THE BUREAU, AND SHOULD NOT BE

INCLUDED IN THE DETAILS OF ANY REPORT.

Under date of 12/13/63, the Los Angeles Division

advised that LA 4448-C-TE had advised that the following

well known San Diego figures are not members of the San

Diego "Regina"::

JOSEPH E. MATRANGA, CII No. 984601

FRANCISCO ISADORE MATRANGA, FBI No. 412019B

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA

SALVATORE BOMPENSIERO, FBI No. 337538.

This information was based on informant viewing

photographs of the above individuals furnished Los Angeles

by the San Diego Division.

At the request of the San Diego Division, the San

Francisco Division contacted

former. SD 923-C

- Bureau (AM - REGISTERED.)

EX-105

- New York (92-2300) (AM. =

• REGISTERED)

- Los Angeles (92-1112). (REGISTERED)

3

- San Diego

E Jan Boo 06(2 , (on ratess 95-6054-621

(1

OTHER 4

THC : vr

(11)

1 APR 30 1964

REC: 104

C

244

MAY 22196A

NW 45839 DocId: 32304717 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SD 92-229

who is now in Folsom Penitentiary,

exhibiting to him

photographs of the following which were furnished san

Francisco by San Diego letter dated 1/22/64:

MARCO LIMANDRI

FRANK BOMPENS IERO

JOSEPH J. LIMANDRI

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA

JOHN PRIZIOLA, Detroit Hoodlum, Father-in-law

of JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA.

CALE

on 3/24/64, advised he knew FRANK

BOMPENS IERO

very well.

He stated that BOMPENSIERO "bucked" TONY MIRABILE

(now deceased) for control of the rackets in San Diego following

MATRANGAS.

stated that it was his recollection that

MIRABILE and BOMPENSIERO made an agreement whereby BOMPENSIERO

operated North of Broadway in San Diego and MIRABILE operated

South of Broadway.

This was prior to the time BOMPENSIERO

was sent to prison on a bribery conviction in 1955.

did not recognize the photograph of MARCO

LIMANDRI,

but stated that he first. met JOSEPH JALIMANDRI

in San Bernardino through one RALPH SPEZZANO (phonetic)e MALF

a bail bondsman. LIMANDRI was then said to be active in

narcotics and prostitution.

LIMANDRI later came to San Diego.

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA was believed by

-to

be the head of the young Italian hoodlum element in San Diego,

and his brother, GASPARE MATRANGA, was once thought to be the

enforcer and strong man of this group.

PRIZIOLA was not: known to

was asked to identify "ARNATO" or "ARNOTO"

(Said by

LA

Diego group).

44

48-C-TE to be the "Capo Regime"

of the San

stated that this name was familiar

OTHER 4

=2 -

NW 45839 DocId: 32304717 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SD 92÷229

to him in some way, but he could not definitely state. why.

He, suggested that many times Italians use the maiden names

of their

mothers as nicknames and that this might be true in

this case.. He could not connect this name with any known

individual.

Informants

of the San Diego Office contacted to

date have been unable.to identify

"ARNATO" or "ARNOTO"

SD 1080-PC, who is of Italian descent was. of the opinion that

"ARNATO" in, Sicilian meant "Another", but could identify no

one this name called to mina.

Concerning information relating to JOSEPH ERNESTO CALME

MATRANGA and. his brothers, ROBERT NEWSOME, Sergeant, San Diego

County Sheriff's Office, has advised that GASPARE MATRANGA. is

suffering from arteriosclerosis, is crippled and"is considered

emotionally unstable. He is no longer on friendly, relations

with his brothers:

Although LA 4448-C-TE has stated definitely that;

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA is not a

"Regina" , SD 1080-PC, has advised as follows:

In early 1963; MIKE AIELLO, bartender and errand

boy for the MATRANGAS, told AIELLO!S

wife that AIELLO and

JOSEPH ERNESTO. MATRANGA had gone to Los Angeles to pick up

some money- in a suitcase in a hotel room there. ¡ MATRANGA

met with a group of unidentified men who apparently made it

rough for him, and indicated they did not trust him.: They

wanted to know who else knew he was meeting with them.

'MATRANGA told them no one else but AIELLO, who was then waiting

outside the room. MATRANGA then brought AIELLO into the

room, identified him and vouched for him

AJELLO told 'his

"wife that he had now been identified to the group and was

"caught in the webb" whereby he was required to take many

risks without extra. compensation from MATRANGA:

Somewhat similar information was öbtained

from

ANN MARCELLO, niece of Mrs. AIELLO, 'and an employee

of the

Pacific Telephone Company at San Diego; who furnished this

-

.3. -

NW 45839 DocId: 32304717

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SD 92-229

information to a Telephone Company Special Agent.

JOSEPH ERNESTO MATRANGA and FRANCISCO ISADORE.

VATRANGA are married to daughters of Detroit hoodlum JOHN CALIf

PRIZIOLA, and it may be that the MATRANGAS have a group of

hoodlums

over which they exercise some control without being

actual members of the La Cosa

Nostra.

An attempt was made to develop MIKE AIELLO as

an informant, and although at first he appeared to be

cooperative, he refused to furnish any information concerning

his own activities or the activities of the MATRANGAS.

By letter, dated 3/24/64, the San

advised that ANGELO,PARINO, reported "CAPO"Francisco Division

2 Of the la Cosa

Nostra, San Jose. California, had been in San Diego sometime

in January,

1964, and contacted SALVATORE and FRANK

BOMPENS IERO. The purpose of this contact is not known;

however, of

recent date SALVATORE/ BOMPENS IERO, who had

Iicenses for The Corsair and The Spot, bars in downtown San

Diego, taken away from him by the California Alcoholic

Beverage Control Commission, is said to be

buying control

of local bars in the San Diego, California, area using

other persons as owners of record, since he cannot personally

own a liquor license.

In this regard PCI JACK OWENS GOSS advised that

SAIVATORE BOMPENS IERO was purchasing "The Carousel", a bar

and cafe in El Cajon, California, and pointed out that

BOMPENS IERO was there every day redecorating the bar and

getting the place ready to reopen it. However, a check of

Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission records at San Diego

revealed that this bar was licensed in the name of ARCHIE

AVAKINA, 2016 Anaheim Street, Long Beach, Ca

California, on

3/4/64, and BOMPENSTERO* name-does not appear in the record

at all.

the activities of JASPERE JOEY MATRANGA

Informants in Tijuana, B. C., Mexico, been identified

by LA 4448-C-TE.

His activities

have not

- _4

NW 45839 DocId: 32304717 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SD 92-229

Arrangements have been made with the

"Los Angeles

Division' whereby LA 4448-C-TE will come to San Diego to renew

acquaintances with persons known to him in

current information concerning the "Regina" an effort to obtain

„at San Diego and

the identity of "ARNATO"

NW 45839

DocId: 32304717 Page 6

---

