# docid-32332884

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10182

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-27

Releaned ander the dear

Kerred:

heapezrasier Reocade

144290 2050 Meter.

Ceeg=17 45836 Sabe:

-=--252-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

PG

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/15/1958

'PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF EOUSA, IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45836

Doold: 32332884

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG: 92-226

married PRECIOUS R. MARINO, also lives at San Jose, California,

and runs a cheese factory with his father. He recalied that

at the wedding of ANGELO and PRECIOUS, JOHN LA ROCCA, MIKE

GENOVESE and KELLY MANNARINO were inattendance

SCARDINA advised that the cheese factory at San Jose,

California,

was actually, purchased by SALVATORE MARINO,

who gave it to ANGELO. He advised that as far as he can

determine, neither of the MARINOs are in illegitimate

businesses of any kind in the California area..

orderes

It was previously determined that

telephone calls were made

from the LA ROCCA residence at Ingomar, Pa., to telephone

Johnstown, Pa. 7-1182. This has been

subsequently determined

to be the number subscribed to by SAM FAShioN, Willway

Cafe, 118 Walnut Street, Johnstown, Pa. He allegedly operates

this care for JOSEPH REGINA, a close associate of LA ROCCA

and LA ROCCAts younger brother. JOHN JILA ROCCA, IIVES

upstairs over the cafe,

The New York Office advised on April 1l, 1958, that additional

Information received from the Bureau of Motor Vehloles at

New York City, reflects that HENRY TURCOTT, who has been

contacted from the LA ROCCA residence at Pittsburgh on

numerous occasions, was born June 17, 1906, 18 516" tally

weight - 148 pounds, has brown hair and blue eyes and has

been assigned operator!s license 59407. He had a

chevrolet station wagon, green in color, bearing 1957

New York license Surburban 4939, which vehicle bears

Motor Number 0371886T55X and Serial Nimber: H255B019138.

He does not have a chauffeur's license

D: CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

Interview of VINCENT CASEY, Attorney For MIKE GENOVESE, and

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

The New York Office advised on April 11;

1958, that SA JOHN J.

RYAN had confidentially learned from WILLIAM LYNCH, Assistant

United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York,

had been subpoenaed for appearance before the Federal Grand

Jury for the Southern District of New York on Thursday.

- 17 -

REVIEWED BY BEWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/24197 Ach

SE RELEASE IN FUL:

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

JEK Law 10(a)2

92-2940-27

NW 45836 DocId: 32332084

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PO 92-226

"April 17, 1958

His appearance was belloved to be directly

connected with

Grand Jury as

orcered.".

non appearanoe before the Federal

On Apr1] 18, 1958, ALBERT DI MEOLO, United States Marshal

for the Western District of Pennsylvania at Pittsburgh,

advised that on Saturday, April I2, 11958, he served a

subpoena to VINCENT CASEY,

the attorney

for SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCOA, for his appearance before the Federal Grand Jury

for the Southern District of New York on April 17, 1958. JHe

stated that he die this after receiving telephonic instructions

from STEPHEN E, KAUFMAN, Assistant United States Attorney in

New York City,

and that KAUFMAN later called him and told

him that CASEY's appearance would not be necessary.

DI MEOLO said that KAUFMAN told him

confidentially. that he

might have the Federal Bureau of Investigation interview

CASEY to make sure he realized that LA ROCCAs appearance

i was

"very sought after" and in order to show CASEY that

the "pressure had not been let up"

as far as his responsibility

to produce LA ROCCA was concerned.

He said KAUFMAN told

him he was very reluctant to subpeena a lawyer but was

willing to try almest anything to insure LA ROCCAts lappearance.

VINCENT CASEY, attorney for several of Pittsburgh's tep

hoodlums, Ineluding MIKE GENOVESE and SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA,

was contacted on April 18, 1958, by SAS RICHARD O. DOUCE and

ROBERT A. VEGat his'office in the Grant Bullding, In

conneetion with another matter, He advised that his subpoena

had been canceled and that he did not antioipate another.

He said he considered the appearances of Individnals before

that particular Federal Grand Jury a complete waste of time

and money.

He stated that

contacted hin telephonically

after being served with a subpoena and requested CASEY to

accompany bim to New York for legal advice.

He said that he

together ye the barn a alone tree appete:

groups of hoodluns for one entire day without

being called.

He resalled that

on the second day,

was asked a great many "generalized personal and irrelevant

questions" by members of the Grand Jury andithat he advised

to answer these. as he: saw

rity but to ntilice the

Fifth Amendment it He did not. wish to discuss the purpose

and ramifications of the

• Mr.

USM

10181=

REVIEWED BY FUJEX TASK FORCE

ON

10/1/9780

I RELOAD NAULL

D

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

JFK Law 10(al2

92-2940-27

45836

DocId: 32332884

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PO 92 226

CASEY advised that he was in Indo China at the time or the

Apalachin meeting and was extremely surprised upont his return

to learn that the Federal Cras fun "unduly persecuted"

In New York was interested

in

whom he feels has been

throughout his lifetime CASEY was

advised by his Interviewers

that

at the time of the

and that thererore, It was natural for him to receive

• subpoena

also. He stated that he never aiscussed the

with

since he felt it was none of his busmess and that

concerning

pr the same token: never volunteered any information

JEK

Law 10(a)2

CASEY advised that he knows nothing of LA ROCA's present

whereabouts and wishes he did since he has a local civil tax

matter to diseuss with him. He said he has represented

LA ROCCA on his tax matters for quite some time and that the

entire situation came about as a result of a net worth statement

submitted by LA ROCCA In 1948: He said he understood that the

sister'of JOHN CONTI, a cousin to LA ROCCA, had died and that

IA ROCOA could not. be contacted regarding this death, which

occurred recently. He sald he is at a loss to explain the

disappearance of IA ROCCA and thinks LA ROCCA should get the

New York appearance "over with."

He said he would advise

LATROCCA to invoke the Fifth Ammendment and thus satisfy his

obligation.

CASEY was questioned specifically concerning his presence at

Hot Springs, Arkansas during March, 1957, at which time he

was in the company of GABRIEL MANNARINO,

pittsburgh top

hoodlum who attended the Apalachin meeting;

PLi

and LA ROCCA.

He appeared initially surprised at this line of questioning

and remarked that,

"the FBI knows more about LA ROCCA than

I do." He advised that he visited Hot Springs for the specific

purpose of conferring with'IA ROCCA about a legal matter and

took papers with him for LA ROCCA to examine. He stated'that

the other individuals"just happened to be there" and that

he understood that most of them had vacationed at this?

location for twenty years or more.

On Apr11 16, 1958, Assistant United States Attorney STEPHEN

KAUFMAN of the Southern District of New York, advised

Bureau agents at New York City that he had been in oscasional

5. 1:94

{OUSA

REVIEWED BY RBUJFK TASK FORCE

= 19 -

ON

9/29151 Do

HELCASE IN FULL

IF RELEASE IN PART

• TUTAL DENIAL

93-2940-27

NW

45836

DocId: 32332884

Page 4

---

## Page 5

P0 92-226

JEK' Law 10(a)2

contact with

that he could produce

who hac. interred

for questioning.

He sald that.

upon the continued failure of the united States Marshat at

Pittsburgh to effect serving

with

the subpoena. he

had lasued a subpoena for the

appearance

of

on

April 17, 1958. He stated that

had commnicated with

him by telephone on the morning

or April 16, 1958, and hae

Informed him that he did not know of

whereabouts

and that therefore, he had excused

from the scheduled

appearance on April 17, 1958.

General Criminal Information Relating To IA ROCCA and His Associates

who has furnished rellable information In the past, advised

the Red Eagle Club

For are wonto me chat ver too that see rando

of the GENOVESE brothers have frequented the club.

Informant

stated that ARCHIE NELSON, Pittsburgh tor hoodlum, still eat.

there regularly,

but that

FRANK' VALENTI, another Pittsburgh

top hoodlum, has hot been in the vicinity for months.

Informant observed JOE ROSA and his son,

known as,

at the Cocktail Lounge on many occasions,

"LITYTE JOE,"

" but explained that

"LITTLE JOE" was never allowed into conterences held by the

top level hoodlums since his father wished to keep him clean.

Informant advised that EVELYN "PEPPER" CAPPELIANO StIll dates

PHIL GENOVESE regularly and has to take days off from her

Job frequently because her face 1s bruised from bestings.

administered by her paramour. Informant was unable to

pinpoint the exact location of SEBASTIAN JOHN. LA ROCCA but

stated that there is an excellent possibility thee he is

in the Pittsburgh vicinity and is simply ataying hidden to

avoid the serving of a subpoens on him.

On March 17, 1958, cHucKers,

aclose associate or the subject

and of other top hoodlums, wo is a top hoodlum of the Pittsburgh

Office himself, was contacted in his suite of rooms at the

Carlton House Hotel In Pittsburgh by SAS CENE F. STUDEBAKER and

JOHNS. PORTELLA, and advised that he was well aware that

the. FBI was making certain Inquiries concerning him and

people with whom he had associated, but felt that he had

nothing to worry about because he knew he had not violatee

any law that came within Federal jerisdletion

20-

1 98-2940-271

NW 45836 DocId: 32332084

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

"One reason given for IA ROCCA!s 'disappearance'1s

that he may fear revival of deportation charges

which were dropped last year when he won an

acquittal on a perjury charge.".

Interest of the Internal Revenue Service In the Subject

ROBERT GANLEY, Special Agents Intelligence Division, Internal

Revenue Service, 521 New Federal Building,

Pittsburgh,

advised on April 15, 1958, that the Internal Revenue

Service

/JEK •Law 11(a)

Other Matters of A Miscellaneous Nature

The Buffalo Office: advised on April 2, 1958, that Miss VIRGINIA

KOLZMINSKI, Clerk, Irmigration and Naturalization Service,

Buffalo, New York, had advised that her indices reflects

that

a request was made by 'Immigration and Naturalization Service

in Pittsburgh, under file 0700-19145,

for an investigation

concerning the subject. These: results were furnished to

Pittsburgh and there is no further information in the

Buffalo ffles..:

T-5, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

advised that limited records of the Prudential Insurance

Company at Newark, New.Jersey, reflect only that

Prudential foreclosed on the

LA ROCCA preperty at

321 South Main Street, Jamestown, New York, on April 21,

1934. The company held it as. company property until 'it

sold on May 1, 1945

The original loan of $8,000

was carried under Mortgage Lean No. 286109, but there was

no further data with respect to the manner of transaction

for the loan between the Prudential Insurance Company and

LA ROCCA.

==29 -

93-2940-27

NW 45836 DooId: 32332884

Page 6

---

## Page 7

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

Tº1. 18 WILLIAN MEREDIN, Special Agent, Bell, relephene

company of Pennsylvania.

STEVENS on April 15, 1958, and

who was contacted by SA HArOLD L.

who has requested that his

identity be concealed.

T-2 18H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, United States Post

who was contacted by SA ROBERT

and who requested that his identity be concealed.

T-3 1s

a potential criminal informant

Tutsburgh orfice,

298, 7 SA RUNER AT VO.

who was contacted on April 23,

T-4 18

of the

Prttsburgh Orrice

who

a potential criminal Informant

contacted by SA VOEGE,

on April 8 and 28, 1958.

T-5 1s NK-8, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

JFK Act 6

- 31

N 45836

DocId: 32332084

Page 7

---

