# docid-32293065

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-192

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

EVANS, C. A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

06/27/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CM, INFT, INS, BRIBERY, DELAY, DEPORTATION, ILLEGAL

ENTRY TO US

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

9.1

HW 45855

24

DocId: 32293065

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"OFFONAL FORM NO. 10

JJNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

TO

Nr. Belmont

DATE:

6/27/61

FROM

C.

A. Evans

Tolson g

Belmont

Mohr

...Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoache

Evans

Malone -

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -_

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

8871

13

SUBjECT:

CARLOS

MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Fla

a potential criminal informant of the

auvised that he heard Carlos Marcello

through his political connections intends to approach the

Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) rèpresentative who

will preside at the INS deportation hearing July 10, 1961, at

New Orleans, Louisiana. They intend to offer him a substantial

sum of money if he

will delay Marcello's deportation from this

country.

This source could not furnish further details concerning

the method to be used by Marcello in handling this matter.

advised Marcello believes that if he can delay his

deportation long

enough, his political connections and associates.

in the State of Louisiana, which allegedly include Governor James

Davis and Senator Russell B. Long, U.S. Senator (both Democrats)

may be able to have some influence in choosing the successor of

General Swing, Commissioner, INS, who is expected to retire in the

near future.

He feels a new Commissioner would be more sympathetic

toward him than General Swing has been in the past and he may: be

successful in having the Government charges dropped against him,

thus avoiding deportation from this country..

source for this information is William E

Abraham,

Baton Rouge, Louisiana, contractor. Our New Orleans Office

advises

Abraham Is possibly identical with the former manager of

the Rendezvous Night Club, Alexandria, Louisiana, where gambling

was known to have taken place.

Between September, 1946, and October

1948, he was arrested seven times for violation of "Sunday" laws and

gambling."

EX-116

REC 5292-2713-190

By way of background, Marcello, who was deported on

April 4, 1961, to Guatemala, is presently free on two bonds of $10,000

One bond was provided on deportation charges for which a hearing

is scheduled July 10, 1961, at New Orleans.

The second bond is for

the subject's release

on Federal criminal charges of illegal entry

into the United States from Guatemala alter deportation to that country.

Our New Orleans Office advises that INS, headayarters,

Washington, D. C.,'will designate a special infuiry officer to

conduct the deportation hearings on July 10, and also desigate an

examining officer: to act as prosecutor at that hearing.

known whether or

not these officers have been designated by

and no public release has been made as to their identities!

Enclosurepant

1 - Mr.

Rosen

F6-27%

1 - Mr.

L'Allier

TLG: Swb (7)

( pis: specomments pg.2)

HW

45855 DocId: 32293065

Page 2

OTHER

4

---

## Page 3

10:y.62

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE:

CARLOS MARCELLO

All Offices involved in this matter have been instructed

or ay a ca on at tition no tart done cottons goes aced

We are maintaining contact with

are alert to secure Bureau interest in the event a Bribery violation

is committed.

ACTION:

It is recommended the attached letter, if approved, be

forwarded to the Attorney General.

It is also recommended our

Liaison Agent disseminate this information to INS insuring that

our source is appropriately protected.

OTHER 4

Liaison advised

"OK #" 6/28/4)

1.6.

Messa

16.

Carl Burrows a Red Harren, IT NS

furnished pertinent into above, soeve

6/29/4

Ears

-

2 -

NW 45855 DocId:32293065 Page 3

---

