# docid-32317929

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10356-10106

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-519

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SE

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/05/1977

' PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317929

Page 1

82

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 U5c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (P 3v. 2-14-74)

Date: 1/5/77

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Precedence)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (72-2382)

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC SEATTLE (72-54) (RUC)

ROSKILL

OBTRUCTION OF JUSTICE

00: MIAMI

Re Seattle airtel to the Bureau, dated 12/6/76.

Contact has been maintained with former SE 2434-PC.

During all contacts but one, source indicated he had no further

information of value concerning this matter.

On 1/4/77, source advised that as a result of his

recent arrest by the Internal Revenue Service, he provided

the information concerning ROSELLI to the IRs,

which he had

previously provided to the FBI.

The source indicated that

apparently IRS was very interested in the whereabouts of

the maps of the Dominican Republic that the source had, but

the source did not provide the maps to the IRs.

additionally indicated that apparently the IRS had leaked

this information to the Seattle press, inasmuch as a Seattle

Times reporter contacted the source and wished to know where

the maps of the Dominican Republic where.

The source said

he did not provide the maps to the reporter.

For the

information of the Bureau and Miami, the

Seattle Division is not in a position to prove the veracity

of the source's statements concerning his activities in the

Dominican Republic and captioned matter.

Therefore, the

above information recently provided by the source is being

provided to the Bureau and Miami inasmuch as there is a

possibility that this information will be published in

a

Seattle newspaper. It should be noted

that the source was

REC-49

7.1282-519

(2) - Bureau (72-2382)

2 - Miami

1 - Seattle (72-54)

JTG/jcb

(5)

=-=-

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Agent in Charge

55 JAN 3 1 1977

GPO: 1975 0 - 590-992

DocId: 32317929 Page 2

---

