# docid-32337208

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90136-10251

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-76940-38

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

• TITLE:

DATE: 02/01/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32337208

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 105-35980

SERRET

NY I-I iS MIGUEL ANTONIO SANCHEZ RAMOS, who

was

interviewed on 1/27/61, by SAS EDWARD J. DEVINS and

STEVE D. EVANS in Room

Roger Willlams Hotel, 28

East 31st St., NYC.

This memorandum is being classified "Secret"

because the unauthorized disclosure of the information

contaned herein may result in the identification of the

source who represents good double agent potential and

could very possibly compromise his future effectiveness.

$ (u)

SANCHEZ was personally present in ABBES' home. and

actually saw the radio set in operation on many occasions.

SANCHEZ stated that he, himself, has no technical ability or

knowledge in connection with radio equipment and that he

could not furnish any technical information concerning the

He was personally present on occasions when messages

which apparently made no sense were coming in from

Guatemala.

ABBES personally told him that he sends and

receives coded messages on this set.

observed the set in the home of ABBES' father, GEORGE

ABBES-GARCIA. He never saw the set in the home-of Colonel

SALADIN, but was told about it

does not know what type of an operation ABBES has in Guatemala,

Mexico, Venezuela, or other South and Central American

countries in connection with the operation of these sets.

SANCHEZ has personally observed boxes containing radio

equipment addressed to ABBES from NYC.

Ru)

- 3-

54462

DooId: 32337208

Page 2

---

