# docid-32176328

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-11-2017

MINTPIUDANULVAI NITRIDI

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI.

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10184-10323

RECORD_SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 97-74-100, 101, 102, 103

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: RCMP

FROM:

HIGGITT, W. L.

TO:

INNES, MOSS LEE

TITLE:

DATE: 11/04/1965

PAGES: 18

SUBJECT: FPCC, CONTACTS, USA, CANADA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC 3 FBI LTR

DocId: 32176328 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BY HAND

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

"BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWAT, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ÊTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWAT, CANADA

YOUR NO:

VOTRE N°

OUR NO.

NOTRE N°

D: 66-945-2E-1

HEADQUARTERS- DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

November 4, 1965

SECRET

Dear Mr.. Innes:

A reliable and delicate source supplied the

following names and addresses of indivicuals residing

in the United States who recently corresponded vith

the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (Trotskyist) office

in Toronto, Ontario requesting literature from this

organization.

(1) Sylvia MOLLICK,

284 Foxhurst Road,

Oceanside, New York.

(2)

Ted

BAKER

156 West 106th St.,

New York 25, New York.

(3)

David HOWATT,

RFD 2, Coopersburg,

Pennsylvania.

(4) David H. DEWEESE,

20 Throwbridge St. No. 7

cambridge 38, Massachusetts.

15 11939 Sapota Drive,

Lakeside, California.

(6)

Harold MAINS,

Bryce Lodge,

NATION TO TE INBryce Canyon, Utan.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY. IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M.P. HEADQUARTERS, OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C. M. POLICE IS NOT TO

HE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o United States Embassy,

100 Wellington St.,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

157766

47.74-100

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED T

ILED ST

1933

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

...2

DocId: 32176328 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

D 66-945-2E-1

-2-

(7) Dirk HUBERS,

Art Department,

Newcomb, Tulane University,

New Orleans, Louisiana.

(8)

David C. LORENZ,

346 Secona sto,

Manistee, Michigan.

19) A.B. PIRATT,

530 Hill St., No. 3,

Ann Arbor, Michigan.

(20)T.A. BLOSSOM,

30x 113,

Pleasant Hill, Tennessee.

2.

It was also reported by our source that the

following individuals and organizations in the United

States are described as "contacts" of the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee in Toronto. The exact meaning of "contacts"

is not known.

(1) Afro-American Student Movement,

8.0. Box 1097,

berkeley, California.

Illlien ALLEN

11030 Sabota Drive

Lakeside, California•

(3) C.G. ABRAMSON,

4026 Dupont Ave. North,

Minneapolis 12, Minnesota.

(4)

Sue ALLEN;

317 E. Cedar St.

Bellingham, Washington.

(5) Ted BAKER

156 west lofth ew forke

New York 25,

.. 3

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

AF NAMED AS THE SOURCE

DocId: 32176328 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-3-

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

(6) David BARSMAINA,

19 Capp St.,

San Francisco 3, California.

(7) DI and Mrs. F.A. BLOSSON, 38578.

Pleasant Hill, Tennessee,

(8) Harry BLUME,

New Bedford, Massachusetts.

(9) Beatrice BOYER,

01-38 150 St.

Flushing 67, Queens, New York.

(10) Robert R. BROUER,

761 9th Ave. North,

St. Petersburg, Florida, 33701

(11) David D. BUrks,

Department of History,

Indiana University,

Bloomington, Indiana.

(12) A .G. CANTO

273 West 70th St.,

New York, New York.

(13) Richard W. CARSON,

• 1526 Vermont, Apt. 5,

Lawrence, Kansas.

(14)J.F. CHAMBERS,

615 Davis St.,

Evanston, itiinois..

(15)H.W• COLER,

Box 931, Blair Station,

Silver Spring, Maryland.

(16) Committee for Freedom Now,

1705 West 3rd St.,

Chester, Pennsylvania.

•HE FOREGUING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R. C. H. POLICE IS NOT TO

HE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

•4

DocId: 32176328 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREI

D 66-945-2E-1

- 4 -

(17) Committee for Peace and Freedom,

c/o Aileen cOX,

(18) Richard CROWDER,

416 Boyte St.,

Monroe, North Carolina.

(19) Claude T. CULVER,

499933r@ sto,

Detroit 10, Michigan®

(20) ROger GREEt LE"

940 Sutter

San Francisco 2, California.

(21) C14 St. 05at

Ave.,

Northfield, Minnesota.

(22) Elizabeth DANZEL,

101 5th Ave.,

North Felham, New York.

(23) Dave DELLINGER,

Box "A",

Glen Gardner,

New Jersey•

(24) David H. DEWEESE,

Lamoranbe de sadnestis.

(25) Mr. & Mrs. H. DIEHL,

Route 2,

Box 1900,

Eacondido, California.

(26) Irwin EDELMAN,

GPO Box 463,

New York, New York.

(27) William ESKELI

R.R•H3, Box 372,

Chehalis, Washington.

I ME FUNEGUING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOH.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY. IT 15 NOT TO

BE DISSEMIÑATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R. C. M. POLICE IS NOT TO

AE NAMED'AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 5

.. 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

-5 -

(28) Sally FAIRBANKS,

1714 Lanier Place,N.Wa,

Washington, D.C.

(29) Mr. B.L. FALANA,

740B N.W. 101st St.,

Miami, Florida.

(30 William FINKELSTEIN,

Flat

.no.1d-f, 1539 Sterling Place,

Brooklyn, New York.

(31) Ralph 1I. FRANKENBERG,

184 East 3rd St.,

Apt. 1A;

New York, New York.

(32) Sarah FULTON,

309 Park Avenue,

Lindale, Georgia:

(33) Cordas GENEVA,

388 La Veta Ave.,

Eucinitas, California.

(34) Joan GLADSTONE,

21-51 35 Ave.,

Long Island City,

New York.

(35) Stephen GOLIN,

30 Irving St.,

Cambridge, Massachusetts.

(36) Allen GOLDBERG,

59 Finderne St.,

Summerville, New Jersey•

(37) Berta GREEN,

482 Fort Washington Ave.,

Apt. 2E,

New York, New York.

(38) 166e ashington it.

Middletown, Connecticut.

"HE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOH.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY. IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M, POLICE IS NOT TO

AE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 6

• 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

- 6 -

(39) Jasper HAALAND

Hendrum, Minnesota.

•(40)Albert HAGEN,

R•R•#2,

Mondovi; Wisconsin•

(41) Mrs. HAMMERSTROM,

RD2, Coopersberg, Pennsylvania.

(42) Richard T. HARDESTY,

809 E. 10th St.,

Bloomington, Indiana.

(43) Ronald HILL,

Upper State

Road,

FFD1, North Wales, Pennsylvania.

(44) Edmund HIRST,

+3 Beetle St.,

New Bedford, Massachusetts•

(45) Sara HORN,

34 West 15th

New fork It, lew yorke

(46)william HOWATT,

801 Devon St.,

Kerny, New Jersey.

(47) David HOWATT,

RFD2, Coopersberg, Pennsylvania.

(48)The Institute for Social Thought,

P.0. Box 16022,

San Francisco 16, California.

(49) Paul JOHNSON,

Atlantic Union College,

S. Lancaster, Massachusetts.

(50) Ralph JORDAN,

R.R.H2, Feteskey, Michigan.

IME FOREGUING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY. IT IS NOT YO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT, THE R.C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

AF, NAMED AS THE SOURCE...

DocId: 32176328 Page 7

.•.7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

-7.

(51)C.W. JOYCE,

61 Depew Ave.,

Buffalo 14, New York.

(52) Miss Hope KAVMiRER,

7450 s.W. 60 St.,.

South Miami, Florida.

(53) Gerald KNIG.T,

450 High St.,

Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin.

(54) Emil KOPAC,

Oshkosh, Nebraska.

(55) George KOSKI,

69-46 79th St.

Middle Village 79, New York.

(56)Maria F. KREEGER,

3523 Merrick,

Dearborn, Michigan.

(57) Larry N. LANDRUM,

533. E. State St.,

Huntington, Indiana.

(58) Robert LONGBOTHAM,

1740 E. Francis Ave.,

La Habra, California.

(59) David C. LORENE,

346

• Second St.,

Manistee, Michigan •

(60) Florence LUSCOMB,

10 Kirkland Road,

Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.

(61) Kenneth MacDOUGALI,

38 Britton St.,

Madison, New Jersey.

(62) Harold MAINS,

Bryce Lodge,

Bryce Canyon, Utah.

THE FUNEGUING IS

PASSED FOR THE INFOM.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BÉ DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 8

• •8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot or

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 (41 USC

SECRE

• I

D 66-945-2E-1

-8-

(63)Ed 86 Jeanette MERRILL,

202 Niagara St.

Buffalo 1, New York.

(64) Fritz MISHI 31,

Route ?, Box

Willamina, Oregon.

(65) Militant

116 University Place,

New York 3, New York.

(66) Modern Book Snop,

1702 Last 4th st,

Los Angeles 33, California.

(67) Sylvia MOLLICK,

284 Foxhurst Road

Oceanside, New York.

(68) Aurelio Garcia MORALES,

(69) Joe MORGAN,

3731. reyton St.

Shreveport, Louisiana.

(70) Elmer G. MOYER,

1875 Black River Trail,

R2, Chiboygan, Michigan®

(71) Truman NELSON,

19 Beckworth,

Salem, Massachusetts:

(72) Robert PERkIND'st."

323 West 121st

Los Angeles, California.

(73) Ralpa PETERSON,

2.0. Box 3481

St. Paul, Minnesota.

AHE

FOREGUING IS PASSED FOR THE INFON.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS, OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

RE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

0009

DocId: 32176328 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

- 9.

(74) Asa PIERATT,

530. Hill St., No. 3,

Ann Arbor, Michigan.

(75)Dr. Paul FRIMELLAS,

Cuban Mission to the U.N.,

155 Last 44th Sü.

New York 17, New York.

(76) Robert E. QUIRK,

nuiana University,

Bloomington, Indiana.

(77) Arthur ROBERTS,

16228 121 S.E.,

Renton, washington.

(78) ROy ROGERSON,

415 Sycamore

St.,

New Bedford,

Massachusetts.

(79) Goldina ROJAS,

1139 W. Winona,

Chicago, Illinois.

(80) Carlos ROMINEZ,

429 Vine St.

San Jose, California.

(81) Anna ROSENBLOOM,

243 Meridian Ave.

Miami Beach, Florida.

(82) 12205 Bo Portland,

Spokane 6, Washington.

(83) The Savile Book Shop Inc.,

3230 P St. N.W.,

washington, 0.u.

....10

IME FURLINE IS PASSIO TUN THE INFUN.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

17 IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS.

OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C. M. POLICE IS NOT TO

BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SERREI

D 66-945-2E-1

- 10 -

(84) Rev. Allen F. SAWYER,

P.O. Box 243,

Brightwood Station,

Springfield 7, Massachusetts.

(85)H.0. SCHAD

Okmulgee, Oklahoma.

(86) Professor Samuel SHAPIRO,

History Department,

University of Notre Dame,

South Bend, Indiana.

(87)Mr. Frederick SHELL,

665 Madrid,

San Francisco, California.

(88) Laurence SHUMM,

1930B Blake,

Berkeley, California.

(89) Charles SMITH,

1515 7th St.,

Bremerton, Washington.

(90)Shirley Nella SMITH,

35035 77th St. East,

2-0. Box 20%california.

Littlerock,

(91 )Willard F. SMITH,

437 Community wane,

Woodland, California.

(92) Richard SNOWSTEIN,

102 Seminary Place,

Schenectady, New York.

(93)Margaret SOKEL,

2234 Fort Fark,

Lincoln Park,

Michigan

'¡THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS, OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

AE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the Dom F. Kennedy 4550551101

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

- 11 -

(94)

Max STANFORD,

237 Ashland Place

Apt. 1,

Brooklyn 17, New York.

(95) Frank STOLLE,

8672 Trenton

Road

Forestville, California.

(96) I.F. STONE,

5618 Nebraska Ave. N.W.,

washington, D.C.

(97) S. N.0.0.,

6. Raymond St. N.W.,

Atlanta 4, Georgia.

(98) Angus and Ruth SUMiNER,

1057 Moreno Ave.,

Palo Alto, California.

(99) George R. TAYLOR,

6801 Oak Crescent Drive E.,

Fort Worth, 19;

Texas.

(100) Jas. TENNEY

856

• State St.,

New Haven, Connecticut.

(101) The University of Michigan,

Ann Arbor, Michigan.

(102) Robert W. TERRY,

1833 Sulphur Springs Ave.,

St. Helena, California.

(103) Cementina VEIGA,

50-09 190ün St.,

Fresh Meadows 05, New York.

(104) Isadore WARWICK,

1203 so Blackstone,

shicago 15, Illinois.

IHE

FUREGUING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY.

IT 15 NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R. C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA. IN

WHICH EVENT THE R. C.M. POLICE IS NOT TO

BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

DocId: 32176328 Page 12

..12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hd

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D 66-945-2E-1

-12 -

(105) Jas P. WILKIE,

11401 Jacalene Lane,

Garden Grove, California.

(106) Miss Jane WITTMAN,

Antioch Union,

Yellow Springs, Ohio:

(107)EC WOLSENTS station G,

Р.О. Box 901, York.

Buffalo,

3.

Your attention is directed to the delicate nature

of the information contained in paragraphs l and 2 and it

would be appreciated if no action were taken which might

jeopardize our source.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFON.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY ONLY, IT IS NOT TO

BE DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR AUTHORITY

FROM R.C.M. P. HEADQUARTERS. OTTAWA, IN

WHICH EVENT THE R.C. M. POLICE IS NOT TO

BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

C/Supt.,

(W.L. Higgitt)

Ior birector.

security and Intelligence.

DocId: 32176328

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 U5c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5-92 (HOV.4029-57)

SECRET

Date:

11/11/65

To:

Director, FBI

(Bufile: 97-4196

Attention

From: Legal Attache, Ottawa

8.97-8

Title

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITIZE

Character

IS-SWP; IS-CUBA; RA- CUBA

Reference

My P/S, 10/29/65.

Enclosed are the following communications received

from the RCMP:

Original and two copies RCMP letter of 11/4/65.l

Remarks:

The Bureau is requested to reproduce

the enclosure and

forward same to interested offices.

(57K) 3/22/99

1-14-94

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Suo/gel

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (6)

S03 PODD ISR

CLASSIFIND AND

Decles

EXTENDED BY 5P-5 REGAR 4/22/B0

REASON FORN

XTENSION

FCIM, 11,: 1-2.

DATE OF FR

FOR

1/95

Dissemination

DECLASSIFIVALION

May be made.as received

May be made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance/with RCMP

ALL INFORMATION dONMINED

HERZIN IS UNOTASSTEIBE

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWH

OTHERWISE.

Status with this office:

, * SECRET

Do not wilte in space below

RUC

9%

174-

10/

Pending

INDEXED.

2

- Bureau (Encs, -3)

MLI : j1

DEC 1 11965

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

(2)

DocId: 32176328

Page 14

---

## Page 15

reteasert

cuter the

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

1-14-94

By 9803 RDD//SR

SAC, Albany

12010-83

ATION CONTAMED

CLASSIFIED

WMOHS:

DIroctor, FBI (97-4198)

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY SPS RJURIt

REASON FOR

EXTENSION

PAID PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

IS - CUBA

FCIM, W, 1"-

4.2..

DATE Of Mar

DECLASSIFICATIN-.

2W0/85

Enclosed for each office except Ottawa are two

copies

oach of Ottawa letter 11-1l-65 and its enclosure

1 rom Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) dated 11-4-65. S)

No extensive inquirles are desired in this

matter.

However, where an individual can be positively

1dentifled with an existing subject, a copy of the material

should be channelized to the appropriato individual file.

No communication to the Bureau regarding such individuals u

18 desired.

Where no positive Identification can bo mado from

avallable data, sufficient discreet inquirles of established

sources are to be conducted to identily them. Advise Bureau u

In the event it appoars that menoranda or other

communications suitable for dissemination should be prepared

as an outgrowth of the data herein, appropriate advice should

be furnished the Bureau under individual case captions and

the matter will ba explored further with RCHP/through Legato.

Ottawa.

In each instance, apocific reference should be made

to this Bureau lotter.

Enclosures -4.

1 • Ottawa

Baltimore (Enclosures-4)

2

Boston (Enclosures-4)

• Buffalo (Enclosures-4)

-

Charlotte (Enclosures-4)

-

Chicago (Enclosures-4)

- Cincinnati (Enclosureg -4)

2

Dallas (Enclosures -4)

Dotroit (Enclosures 4)

; 2

2

Indianapolia (Enclosures-4)

Kansas City (Enclosures-4)

Los Angeles (Enclogureg-4)

₴

Memphis (Enclosureg-4)

• MIan1 (ENCIONUTES LARCHED...

2

INDEXED.....

SERIALIZED D-

AFILED 00.24m

Minneapolia (Enclosures-4)

Newark (Enclosures-4)

New Haven (Enclosures-4)

Ney Orleans (Enclosures-4)

New York (Enclosures-4)

Oklahoma City (Enclosures-4)

Omaha (Enclosures-4)

Philadelphia (Enclosures-4)

Portland (Enclosureg-4)

Salt Lake City (Enclosures 4)

San Diego (Enclosures-4)

San Francisco (Encloaures-4)

Seattle (Enclosureg-4)

Tampa (Enclosures-4)

WTO (Enclosures-4)

1.Cc

157-

nobe

DEC 1 119M

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

90-74-102

DocId: 32176328

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote).

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI. (97-4196)

1/31/66

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (97-74) (RUC)

FAIR PLAY FOE CUBA COLMITTEE

IS • CUBA

1-14-94

Masted by

9803 ROD NSR

NOSE ON GER JFK

Re. Bureau letter 12/10/65.

Re letter enclosed for recipient offices two copies

of Ottawa letter dated 11/11/65 and an enclosure.

Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) deted 11/4/63- (S1"Fon 207a1

identified

communicationas being Identical with subject of New Orleans

Ille 15l-166 and accordingly has designated a coby of reference:

conmunications for that file.

Department

set north below are data concerning DIn BUDdaS

BS+ Art

Newomb College, Tulane University,

, New

orleans,

Louisiana This nane was contained on page 2 of re ROuP comiuni-

cations and/the indices of the New Orleans Office vere negative

regarding him):

TOLOSSOR MAUS (Protect Identity, Chairman

of the Departuent of French,

Newconb College, Tulane Univeraity,

and an established source/of the New Orleans

Office advised on

1/24/66 that DIRK HUBERS is a professor in the Art School of

newcone College and that he is & Dutch National who probably

will become or may already be a United states citizen.

WOODS knows nothing of a derogatory nature concerning DiR

HUBERS. He does understand that HuaRS recently bought a place

in Guanajuato, Mexico.

on 1/25/66, the records of INS Office in New Orleans

contained the following information concerning DIRK HUBERS:

- Bureau (RI)

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINID

HEXINy IS LNCTASSITIED

- New Orleans

EXCEFT WHARS SHOWN

WCD: mnw

Ried

OTHERWISE.

(3)

anna

RÉVIEWED BY FAUJA TASASSORCE

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED

BY.J9-5

122/80

REASON

TOR EXTENSION

ON

Spralized.

FCIM, I1,

4.2

DATE OF

NEIS FOR

DECLASSIFICANEN

3 86

DI RELEASE IN FUL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Filed

617-74-103

DocId: 32176328 Page 16

---

