# docid-32286496

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10195-10272

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-334

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/21/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING ACT, BOOKMAKING ACT, TELEPHONE

CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286496

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hote). DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

CONOVER stopped this car and advised MEADOWS that he did not

want him or GRIMES in Grand Prairie at any time.

On 5/17/62, Bureau Agent observed the automobile

Of GRIMES' mother, Mrs. BEULAH GRIMES, parked behind GRIMES'

residence on South Lancaster, Dallas.

This was a 1954 Buick,

white and blue,

with 1962 license NW 4937.

This is another

car to which GRIMES and MEADOWS have access in their book

making activities.

The above information was made available to Lt. REVILL

and Deputy MORGAN on 5/18/62.

On 5/14/62, DL 95-C advised that LITTLE was meeting

with Grand Prairie gambler WAYNE

MARKS and other unknown

gamblers in Grand Prairie every morning between 10 and 11 AM

at the Kip's Restaurant in Grand Prairie.

On 5/15/62, license number of MARKS' automobile was

obtained at Grand Prairie, being MU 1967 on a-1954 white and

blue Oldsmobile.

RE: GARY DEAN BARRON, aka.

AR (DL 92-291)

On 5/15/62, Lt. REVILL advised that BARRON had been

arrested on the night of 5/14/62, along with his girl friend

prostitute MARGARET LASSITER.

He was arrested in possession of

property taken from coin machines and from the burglary of two

Dallas apartment houses.

Both BARRON

and LASSITER were charged

on 5/16/62, with burglary and breaking and entering.

RE: VIRGIL JOHN ETCHISON, aka.

AR DL 92-249

On 5/15/62, Lt. JACK REVILL furnished the license

numbers and identities of persons who attended the funeral of

Dallas police character JOHN ARTHUR REESE.

He stated among

those persons were Dallas police characters.

FORREST. W

REYNOLDS and FRANK RANCE PARKER. Lt. REVILL further stated

he had been unable to develop any information as to who actually

killed REESE.

DocId: 32286496 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hote). DATE: 11-14-2017

a...

DL 94 - 55A-SUB

On 5/15/62, Deputy MORGAN advised that his investi

gation had determined that Dallas prostitutes BETTY LOU

BROGDON, had been closely associating with Rebs? just prior

to his murder.

He stated BROGDON was presently "holed up"

in Apartment 29 at 4640 Cole Avenue, Dallas.

He further stated

he had rece WeNDEll ODello from an informant that Dallas

ex-convict,

STEPHENS, who was released about fil

three or four months ago from the state penitentiary, had had

a fight with an unknown person in the penitentiary.

Following

bion on so

his release, STEPHENS and REESE, according to the SO informant,

planned to take care of this person and the only information

known to the SO about this person is that he drives a gray

Cadillac.

On 5/17/62, DL 95-C advised that he-had heard under

world rumors that MAURICE DEXTER MC EWEN, a Dallas ex-convict

and close associate of REESE and former pimp-husband of BETTY

LOU BROGDON, has some knowledge concerning the murder.

Informant stated further that MC EWEN was presently closely

associated with a Grand Prairie ex-convict named DOUGLASY KESSLER.

KESSLER, according to informant, was attempting to evade

and other contacts since the murder, and was described by

informant as "real shook up".

The above information was made available to Sheriff

BILL DECKER and Deputy MORGAN on 5/17/62.

RE: BOBBY JOE CHAPMAN, aka.

IGA (DL. 162-107)

On 5/17/62, the Dallas Office received an anonymous

telephone call advising that TOMMY wELCH, known associate oi

CHAPMAN, was now handling CHAPMAN'S bookmaking activities, was

driving a 1962 white and green Ford convertible, registered to

CHAPMAN, and was operating over a northeast Dallas telephone

number on the Davis 7 exchange:

Caller stated further that

WELCH was receiving a line on baseball games from

source in Bossier City, La.

Caller further stated WELCH was

dabbling in narcotics and planned

to meet that afternoon with

Houston, at the Taylor

stated

narcotics are kept in the room above this motor company and that

the meeting was for narcotics purposes.

-4=

DocId: 32286496 Page 3

---

