# docid-32297155

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10218-10431

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-208

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

06/16/1965

1

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, OBA, ARREST, ASSOC, DEMONSTRATION, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

15

DooId: 32297155

page

1

---

## Page 2

r.

L BUREAU OF INVESTIGAYIOE

DEPARTMENT

MUMICATIONS

JUSTICE

SECTION

JUN 1 0 10

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr--

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Casper..

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. Cale_-

Mr. Rosen_

WYSMr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.-

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy-

SENT BY CODED TELETYPE

I DEFERRED

16-47 /

TO DIRECTOR

(10)

FROM SAN JUAN

1P

6-16-65 TBD

AND MIAMI: MIAMI VIA WASHINGTON ENCODED:

@MOV IMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR,) IS-CUBA,

NM .

ON JUNE FIFTEEN INSTANT SJ FOUR NINE TWO - S ADVISED THAT DR.

ORLANDO BOSCH, LEADER OF THE MIRR HAD BEEN ARRESTED INFLORIDA WITH A

NUMBER OF AERIAL BOMBS. SOURCE ADVISED THAT EUGENIO LAFITTE,

PUERTO

RICO REPRESENTATIVE OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION HAD REQUESTED MEETING

TO PLAN SOME TYPE OF DEMONSTRATION IN PUERTO RICO TO PROTESI THE

ARREST OF THIS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE LEADER.

OI, POPR ADVISED ~

SOURCE WILL IMMEDIATELY CONTACT BE SAN JUAN A DOLLERAL PLANS 2 0 8

DEVELOPED. AIRIEL AND LAN FOLLOW EG-35 TE MUN I 1965

DIG 161215

END AND ACK PLS

RPP

5 OFBUNASHA 1965

46

EX 109

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED/

SPOBJALCL

GFK)

STAYED TOMM

90-4474

HH 54027 DocId: 32297155 Page 2

---

