# docid-32306391

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2030

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

06/02/1967

4

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, TRA, MONTREAL, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: '4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/06/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32306391

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIEL

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

6/2/67

10:

I AMDIRECTOR, FBI

BROM :

SAC, NEW YORK

SUBJECL:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(92-6054)

(92-2300)

special tils Goon

- 30-07

Re Bureau airtel to NY, 4/25/67; Legat, Ottawa

airtel to Bureau, 5/10/67, captioned as above; and NY

seletype to bureau captioned,

4/28 through 10/28/67, HOODLUM INFLUENCE, AR"

1 INFLUENT, ON, Anted 4/5/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 6 copies of an LHM

for transmittal to Legat, Ottawa. Enclosed for Albany are

2 copies of IHM for assistance in conducting investigation

requested.

Referenced NY TT to Bureau apprised the Bureau of

the visit to the NYO of Lt. ROBERT J. LE BLANC and Detective

NICK GUERRA of the Montreal, Canada PD on 4/4/67 (NY 92-4679) •

LE BLANC and GUERRA advised that they had been

referred to the NO by USA ROBERt M. MORGANIAU, SDN, -whom

they had visited on the previous day. Details of that visits.

have been set forth on the enclosed LHM.

For the information of Albany, re legat airtel

related in part that

a result of a series offarticles

4

Bureau

(Enc 15,

6)

(RM)

EX-113

1- Legat,

92-62)

Albany

(924535)

1

(Enels.

2) (RM)

New York

8561292-6054 - 2038

TVD : vmc

(8)

to Legát, Oltawa ly o-7

и 30 20

IKE JUN 8

1967

62 JUN26

Approved:

987

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306391

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JSTICE

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

June 2, 1967

In Reply, Please Refer to

Vile No.

Bureau 92-6054

New York 92-2300

La Cosa Nostra

Anti-Racketeering - Conspiracy

On April 4, 1967, Lieutenant Detective Robert J.

Le Blane and Detective Nick Guerra, Surete Montreal, Montreal

Police, Canada, visited the New York, New York Office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)•.

They stated that they

had been referred to this office by United States Attorney

Robert. M. Morgenthau, Southern District of New York, whom they

had visited the previous day.

Lieutenant Detective Le Blanc stated that the Montreal

Police have territorial jurisdiction over "Expo 167".

Lleutenant

Detective Le Blanc requested that the Montreal Police be directly

advised by the FBI when any information is received Indicating that

American hoodlums are to travel to Montreal during the course of

"Expo '67".

Ileutenant Detective Le Blanc also stated that he is in

charge of a new and permanent criminal intelligence program being

set up by the Montreal Police.

be furnished pertinent intelligence information on La Cosa Nostra

members living or operating in the Montreal area on a continuing

int in he пользо аго

He requested that his Department

basis.

Lleutenant Detective Le Blanc advised that he was aware

that information concerning American hoodlums visiting or who are

active in Canada is furnished to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police•

Lieutenant Detective Le Blane stated that his Department 1s

experiencing undue delay in receiving such information from the

Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and requested that such Information

be furnished directly to his Department.

The New York, New York Office of the FBI made no

commitments during this meeting with Lleutenant Detective Le Blanc

and Detective Guerra.

COPIES DESTROYED

JUN 8 1972

31

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loned to your

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside

your aseney. 6054

- 3030

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32306391 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Now York, New York

June 2, 1967

In Reply, Please Refer to

Vile IVo.

Duroau 92-6054

New Yorke Seres00

La Cosa Nostra

Anti-Racketeering - Conspiracy

On April 4, 1967, Leutenant Detective Robert J.

Le Blane and Detective Nick Querra,

Surete Montreal; Montreal

Polted, Canada, Visited the New York, New Yorl Orizoe of the

Pedoral, Bureau of Investigation (FBI).

They, stated that they

had been referred to thie office by United States Attorney

Robort M. Morgenthau, Southern District of New York, whom they

had visited the previous day.

Lieutenant Detective Le Blane stated that the Montreal

Pollee have torritorial

Juriediction over

"Expo 167"

Iloutenant

Detoctive te Blane requested that the Montreal Police be directly

advised by the was when any intomation is Feceived Andloating that

Amerioan hoodiuns are to travel to Montreal during the course of

"Екро *67"

Ileutenant Detective Le Blanc also stated that he le in

charge of a new and permanent eriminal intelligence progzai being

set up by the Montreal Police.

He requested that his Department

be furtshed pertinent intelligence Information on La Coan Nostra

members living or operating in the Montreal area on a continuing

baste.

Loutenant Detective Le Elanc advised that he vas arre

that Information concerning American hoodlums visiting of who are

active in Canada 1s Tumished to the Royal Canadian Mounted Pollee.

Leutenant Detective Le Blane stated that his Department 1e

experiencing undue colay in receiving such inforuation fron the

Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and requested that such intormation

be rumtaned carectly to his Lapartuent

The New York, New York Offlee of the V3I nade no

counttments during

this meeting with Leutenant Detective Le Blane

and Detectivo Cuerra.

Chis document contains neither

recommendations: nor conclusions

of the FSL. It is the property

of the FBE and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside

your agency.

92-6054-2030

20-19.037

DocId: 32306391

Page

---

