# docid-32321950

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10378-10108

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3436

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CG

TITLE:

DATE:

05/05/1997

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321950

390

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

: (12/31/1995)

#40

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE

05/27/1997

Date:

05/05/1997

To: Chicago

Atth: Anne P. Trecek

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JEK Task Force,

Rm. 6362

Contact:

Brian J. Fields,

Ext. 9535

Approved By: Keeley Carol I CLK/B8t

Drafted By: Fields Brian J

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection

Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the governments' production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in the documents sent by each agency to the

National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides

what postponements the Act allows or opens the document in full:

The ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1997.

With

this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material

Details:

On March 10, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

incago ghost let F 461029705.3436

listed items.

If Chicago is aware of any administrative records

may have maintained outside the normal index system, they

should include those areas in the search.

If any documents

related to the matter is found, please forward the documents to

the JFK Task Force.

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

form.

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If Chicago believes their

office needs a copy, they should copy the document or material

DocId: 32321950 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

:. *

To: Chicago

From:

Re:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 05/05/1997

before sending to the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for any

files and references

Iot Luis Kutner, informant number CG 5973-C, informant file

number CG 137-647 and forward all records to FBIHQ, JFK Task

Force,

Attention Brian J. Fields, Room 6362.

at 1202) 324-9595 have any questions,

If you have any questions, please call Brian J. Fields

should not be listed

like this

2

DocId:32321950

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To:

Re :

Chicago

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 05/05/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

DAI

chicago

Conduct a search of your office for any records

pertinent to Luis Kutner, informant number CG 5973-C, informant

file number CG 137-647. Forward any material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Brian J. Fields,

Room 6362.

The results should be received at FBIHQ no later

than

C.0.B. 05/27/1997.

1

- Carol L. Keeley, Room

1

- LuAnn

Wilkins,

Room 6362

1

- Brian

J. Fields, Room

6362

6362

3

DocId: 32321950

Page 4

---

