# docid-32161130

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-201

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10142-10442

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-2064-278

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/16/1963

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-737

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

05/07/1.996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32161130

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

AIRTEL

12/16/63

ALL INFOR RIOT CONFAINSO

FUEL CHONG ORNICE.

50s

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-21016)

PRONE SAC, NFO (44-530) (5)

lasshen

+ 10 H82/

Declassify

JACK LEON REGI, BRO$

LEE HARVEY OSTAGO - VICTIN (DECROREd) 2/26/96

CIVIL RIGHTS

CLASSIFIED BY51668- S4s/ride

(DORDL)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

toe of the

kaRma tO WILLIANS as a

GIBBONS, a National ta

in the troup and nes very

tomo tators repe

DORA tO RUBBISTBIN.

farades into comoralor enta pocatallity to tha ror.

to subjent.

3 - lureas

2-Dalles (44-1638) (8215) (AM)

D- Her Orloans (44-2064) (I=80) (BA)

- How York (InfO) (RM)

3 - 4PO

(1-105-524) 140192

(9)

AIRTEE

a nde 44-2064-278

SEARCHED...

INDEXED...

SERIALIZED

_FILED.

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

Smer

CLASSIFIED BY

5040

EXEMPI FROM GDS CATEGORY 2,3

DATE CE/DECLASSIE

-WED INDEFDITE

DocId: 32161130 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released undet

the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records

DATE: 11-14-2017

Collection Act of 1992 (14

2107

Hote) .

• STO 944-920

SECRET

On 12/13/63, C7' 568-S* nevined that on sore date [S

Isbosing of Larzol,

Washington;

D. C., contocted AT ELAL (Fonctio) of the starte

Taraeli Sebor

origondaation,

an her fork 41t3 vad diacusae

sch bt Metadrut aponsored trip to Icrael sa EM0RART 0RART LS

stated ke had tailod to JANE CLINION (Phonetic), not further

identified,

en: unmoned person! (contost cloorly indicated

reterence te JACK MBX) to may havo male this trip to Jorael

18.et.

and attached biaself to MANOLD CreDoS.

cLamos inascated

ho had reoently contacted in. FINIAlS, National

Director:

AFL-610, Bontalane,

obout this possibility

During

another disovasion on 12/13/63 with an widen

tstied perses DolarT

dacctosed

DADASE (Phonatio), not[5]

further Adantarted,

had indicated the nap in quotion tho

note the trip to

Largot

went by the nano of late or NAT STEIN:

(Phonetio) ,

= pubite relations man

tran Los Angeles.

witdentifiod porson comented that

te there wes eny poontailaty

SISIX wes

dentical with "tho fut

Tessa (context agnin

Indicates petesence to RUST),

BANDAII

probably would have

heard from tho PlE beccuse MILLAS

had told the FBL about

cove poostbility

(UBT banding

160a

o crip' to tamal da 1955).

intenant

further selated ELai)lates disclosod(S

(5) to NonArs ho had talked to BARDAKE

knows: NAID STED:

DASTAKI Scated 52611 1a not identical with

#that son* (A08X)

whos BARBAlL had soon on IV

BARDAEL

stated Stutt is a close

Criond of JAMS ROFIA, Tesstor offleial

and Zeador.

was on trial about ods nonths ago and HDFPA cand

to tour on as most to at eLs

defense.

that thoro ma no basis shatevovor

for rumor that this person who

took the trio to Israol in

1935 de identical wich RUBY.

(5X mars) also contaste

ZACK (Phonctic) not further

identified, to sasure his that there

mes no basdo for the

abovo rumor.

apparatly roferring to

fur intervier of

VILLIAS, remarted that. "the man" told the FOl about tuo

sooks ago, adding

DId nobody: hos beard fron it in buo woote

it do obvtouate not ge."

SECRET

DocId: 32161130

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel.

BRO 44-520

SECREP

Above is being furnished for the

of the

Buzens and recipient offices and for whatever eralstance it

my bo to Nen Ortoms celetive to the Intervior of E. l*

MELLIANS A

In the event any of

above into is set out in fora

suitabte for dissemination,

the idontity of the informat

must be protected and infornation appropriately paraphrased.

The infomation should be classifted

*Confidential» since

It reflecto an fBI investigative a foreign diplomatie (5)

occab Siment, and since infouation tron the informnt cont

reasonably wilt in the identification of a contidesta

Infornant of conttnuing

value and couprontse the future

of Coctivencsa

08 .

326224

DocId: 32161130

Page 4

---

