# docid-32304303

## Page 1

Released under, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK. Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10315

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-6054-1772

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/31/1966

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

-11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

09.1

DocId: 32304303

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F.BI

Date: 10/31/66

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-365)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

LENO 1457 - PC advised SA PATRICK J. COLLINS,

JR.

JRe at his Tampa, Florida, home per

his invitation.

PC stated that during this period CARLOS

MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE had several lengthy private

conversations.

PC. does not know what took place at

these conferences.

TRAFFICANTE and MARCELLO did not

settle whatever their problem was during this visit.

Over the July 4 weekend, SANTO TRAFFICANTE

Vand two of his close associates, names unknown, visited

CARLOS MARCELLO at his Churchill Farms estate.

During

the weekend MARCELLO had a small private dinner party

At this dinner party were

JOSEPH MARCELLO,

In hOnor of TRATITO ANARCELLO, PASQUALI RCELLO,

JOSEPH "ZIP* CHIEMENTI,

Chief Investigator from the

Jefferson Parish District Attorney'S Office, JOSEPH

BORETTO, JIMMY CAMPO, and several others, names unrecalled.

During this holiday weekend several lengthy private

conferences occurred between CARLOS. MARCELLO and SANTO

TRAFFICANTE. PC stated that from MARCELLO's attitude

PC could tell that nothing was settled at these conferençes..

- Bureau om

New York

(92-2300 sub 0) OP M

1"2

Tampa

3

- New Orleans

(2 - 92-365)

PJC: med

(10) 01

EX-104

(1 - 137-2847)

REG 53

92-6054

f15150k

11 NOV 2 1966

Approved:

Sent .

Special

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32304303 Page 2

---

## Page 3

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-365

PC stated that the secret nature of these

conferences was impressed upon the PC because at Churchill

Farms MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE walked out into the middle

of the fields behind the main house and sat for many

hours.

Likewise, at TRAFFICANTE's home in Tampa, MARCELLO

and TRAFFICANTE

sat alone in the back yard..

During the past several weeks CARLOS MARCELLO

has stated to the PC that the luncheon at which he was

arrested in New York City was just that and that he

would not have been in attendance if JOSEPH MARCELLO

had not been so slow in packing at their hotel. If

they had left fifteen minutes earlier than they did

they would not have received the invitation to the

Luncheon •

MARCELLO stated that the really serious

meeting in New York took plae during the early evening

hours the day prior to his arrest and that the New York

Police would have "seen some real power" if they had

found the meeting the day before the arrest.

PC stated that MARCELLO is worried over

TRAFFICANTE and got into trouble with the New York people

over TRAFFICANTE's actions.

PC stated that TRAFFICANTE

wants to come into Louisiana. PC does not know how

TRAFFICANTE wishes to come into Louisiana; however,

CARLOS MARCELLO is opposed to this as CARLOS feels

that

once TRAFFICANTE gets a foothold in Louisiana it is the

beginning of the end of CARLOS MARCELLO. CARLOS MARCELLO

the State; however, MARCELLO feels that this will be

the end of MARCELLO's control of Jefferson and Orleans

Parishes.

CARLOS MARCELLO told PC that TRAFFICANTE

presented several problems occurring in this part of

the country to "important people" in New York and

elsewhere and created the impression that CARLOS MARCELLO

was to blame for these problems.

PC stated that the

- 2

--

DocId: 32304303 Page 3

---

