# docid-32306420

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10060

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-9927-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

05/17/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ENB, CRIMINAL ACT, FINANCES, ASSOC, CM, LHM, JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45713

DocId: 32306420

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev: 5-22-64)

8

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

6/5/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson...

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr.

Mohr

Mr.

Nir.

Par.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad/

Mr. Felt.

No. Fol

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mir. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss_Holmes.,

Miss Gandy.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-9927)

ATT: CRIME RECORDS

FROM: SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-2675) (C)

RE:

EDWARD NICHOLAS

BECKER

AR

00: LOS ANGELES

Re Los Angeles airtel 5/17/67.

LA 4367-C-TE, a friend of ED REID,Vauthor of the

soon to be published book,

" contacted REID

telephonically on 5/26/57, and explained to him that SIDNEY

KORSHAK had reported that ED BECKER was trying to shake

down some of KORSHAK's friends for money to keep their names

out of the book.

The purpose of source was to discredit BECKER to

REID in order that the CARLOS MARCELLO incident would be

deleted from the book by REID. BECKER is obviously REID's

informant concerning reportedly informing Bureau Agents in

September, 1963,

, that CARLOS MARCELLO was planning on killing

President KENNEDY.

REID did not commit himself as to deleting or

changing any passage of the book.

On 5/31/67 800CCu

source and SA GEORGE E. BLAND contacted

EBI

Bureau

?

- Los Angeles

(1 - 137-2528)3 8

GEB/mjg

(5)

dIry

REC AS Wick meno

22-9922-2

#3 LUN

Jones

1967

EX-104

I Approved: UMM

55 JUN 2 - {000fl Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

NW 45713 DocId: 32306420

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-2675

Mr. and Mrs. ED REID at their residence, 5000 San Vicente

Boulevard, Los Angeles.

Source again related KORSHAK's

statements concerning BECKER.

again pointed out

REID that BECKER had been interviewed by Bureau Agents

in November, 1962 concerning the BILLIE SOL ESTES case, but

ad not mentioned the reputed conversation or statements

allegedly made by MARCELLO on 9/11/63, (almost a year later)

at Churchill Farms, New Orleans.

REID stated he would never publish anything to

discredit the Bureau or cause embarrassment to the Bureau.

Mrs. NANCY REID and then ED REID agreed that

that portion

of the manuscript concerning the Bureau would be deleted.

LA 4367-C-TE was most helpful in effecting the

desired objective.

- 80-10000

NW 45713 DocId: 32306420

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-3f, (Rev. 5-22964)

gD:08

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/17/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

ATTN: (

CRIME RECORDS

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-

-NEW)

EDWARD NICHOLAS BECKER

AR

v.st

Re Los Angeles airtel captioned,

"ED,

REID; INFORMATION

CONCERNING,

" dated 5/11/6VA

Referenced airtel furnished information that REID,

co-author of the book "The Green Felt Jungle,

has now written

a book entitled

the near future Jungle, U.S.A."

which is to be published in

In this book, REID devotes one chapter to

2?

CARLOS MARCELLO, LCN member in New Orleans.

REID incladed

information and

statements supposedly made by CARLOS MARCELLO

on 9/11/63, concerning the pending assassination of President mayBe*

KENNEDY.

REID attributed this information to an informant who

claimed he was interviewed by FBI Agents in Los Angeles and LAceSANah

gave this same information to them in September, 1963. Based

on the information furnished by REID, it was concluded that

his informant probably is EDWARD NICHOLAS BECKER.

REID waS

confronted with this but would not identify his informant.

on 5/16/67, from

on 5/17/67, LA 4367-C-TE advised he received a call

OTHER 4

inquired as to who

ED BECKER was and

advised that BECKER was

trying to shakedown

some of

friends for money by claiming he is the

Bureau (RM)

Los Angeles

1 - 62- 21

) (ED REID)

92-742)

< - 13772328) (LA 4367-C-T/5)

LVL/MAL

(9)

1 copy removed.

in Crime Récordsli

GWG

REC-15°

N92-

NCI-37

6 MAY 2? 1967

9927°

Sent

_ M

Per

approved:

57 MA 13 5 Specialy Agent. in Charge

NW 45713 DocId: 32306420

Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-NEW

collaborator with REID and that for money he could keep the

names of these people out of the book.

It is noted that source

had requested

name be deleted, and it was.

Source called for REID and spoke to his wife on 5/17/67.

Mrs. NANCY REID was the personal secretary for source in Las Vegas

for many years.

Mrs. REID stated that BECKER was not connected

with REID as the collaborator on his new book nor was anyone else.

Jon 5/17/67, and related

that BECKER was a

no good

The Bureau will be

advised of developments.

OTHER 4

2

580-190830

NW 45713 DocId: 32306420

Page 5

---

