# docid-32286747

## Page 1

Released under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10196-10023

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-975

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/21/1963

1

SGI, TESUR, GAMBLING, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32286747

Page 1

45

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kenned

DATE: 11-14-2017

A-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

ssination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DECODED COPY

fire

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

2-21-63

212122

SAMUEL. MO GIANCANA, AKAO, ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

CG' 6486-0* ADVISED THAT GIANCANA WAS IN CONFERENCE

WITH ROCCO POTENZO, CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM AND CONTROLLER

FOR GIANCANA OF NORTHWEST SUBURBS, CONCERNING GAMBLING

OPERATIONS IN NORTHWEST. POTENZO STATED THE BIG GAME,

FORMERLY AT RIVER AND HIGGINS ROAD, ROSEMONT, ILLINOIS,

CLOSED AND HAS MOVED TO FACTORY LEASED BY POTENZO AS LEGIT

BUSINESS, TO BE USED FOR TWO WEEKS ON TRIAL BASIS AS AREA'S

LARGEST CRAP, ROULETTE AND POKER OPERATION. LOCATION

FULLY DESCRIBED BY POTENZO. (V)

GIANCANA ORDER POTENZO AND HIS CRONIES TO STAY AWAY

FROM THUNDERBOLT MOTEL, RECENTLY SOLD BY GIANCANA TO CG

6621-PC, NOW KNOWN AS CARAVELLE. RESTAURANTE AND LOUNGE

IS UNDER CONTROL OF POTENZO. POTENZO ARGUED HE HAD A RIGHT

TO BE THERE, HOWEVER, GIANCANA NAS INSISTENT (V)

RECEIVED:

6:51 PM

MGR

92 = 3121-995

REC- 58

€ FEB 26 1963

C. L-Eucem

51 MAR A 1963 DATE 4/23184 SP5R53/BuzzE

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabli

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286747 Page 2

---

