# docid-32309255

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10042

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2824-SEE COMMENTS

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#: NW 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: NEWSOM, MILTON L.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/18/1962

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS :

JFC, INTV, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, TELCAL, EMP, FISUR,

TOLL CALLS, LCN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

92-2824-97,98,99,100,101,102, INC 5 RPT

v9.1

HH 45754 DocId: 32309255

Page 1

---

## Page 2

j-1-591

9'

• FÉDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

TITLE OF CASE

JOSEPA PRANCIS CIVELIO,

aka

7/28/64

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/30 - 7/27/64

TYPED BY

jt

AR

REFERENCE: Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, Dallas, 1/31/64.

- р* -

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following list of informants who are acquainted

with CIVELLO or know of his activities were contacted:

advised that they have no information to indicate tha CIVELLO

is active with the criminal element in the Dallas area:

DL 181-C-TE - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 185-C-TE - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 140-C - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 170-€ - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

Bureau (92-2824)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2824-102

REC-42

I - USA, Ft. Worth

019. 21*

2 - Dallas (92-36) =bEC/VE iAt

WERE.

3 AUG 3

'1964

EX 105

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY_-

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD, .

HOW FWD.

/-Dept 816/64

BY

6 gAUG 11 1964

NW 45754 DocId: 32309255

Page 2

NOTATIONS

AlrE

1.6

Ni

привест,

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

D08-1915

---

## Page 3

DL 92-36

JEK Act 6 (4)

DL 197-C - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DL 199-PC - contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT ME BARRETT;

DI 208-PC = contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE and

ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI MICHAEL LES'CHEISKO - contacted by SAS IVAN

D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI

I contacted by SA IVAN D. InE.

In addition to the above contacts,

an All Agents

Memo dated 6/30/64, requested that Agents of the Dallas

Division contact logical informants and sources to attempt

to ascertain if CIVELLO is known to be active

within the

criminal element.. No information was developed through

these contacts to indicate that CIVELLO was presently

active with

the criminal element.

UACB, this matter is being placed in a pending

inactive status for a period of six months.

This case

will be reactivated on 11/28/64, for the submission of

a report to the Bureau concerning CIVELLO by 12/28/64.

B*

COVER PAGE

774 45754

DocTd: 32309255

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 92-36

JEK Act 6 (4)

None of the informants listed below could not

furnish any information which would indicate CIVELLO

is active in the criminal element in the Dallas area

or in other cities:

DI 181-C, contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE

and ROBERT M: BARRETT;

DL 185-C-TE, contacted by SAS IVAN D. LEE;

and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

DI 170-C, contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT;

PCI

contacted by SAS IVAN D.

LEE

and ROBERT M.

BARRETT;

PCI MICHAEL LETCHESKO, contacted by SAS IVAN

D. LEE and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE, contacted

by SAS

IVAN D. LEF and ROBERT M. BARRETT;

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

'Section, IRS, contacted by SA IVAN D. LEE.

The Los Angeles informant mentioned in the

details of this report is LA 4148-C-TE.

On 1/14/63, CIVELLO was contacted by SAS

IVAN D. LEE and JOHN

T. MC MURRER concerning his

possible acquaintance with JACK RUBY, subject in Dallas

major case file 44-1639. CIVELLO advised at that time

he was not well acquainted with RUBY and knew nothing

of his background or his activities inthe Dallas area

during the recent years.

UACB, this investigation is being placed in a

pending-inactive status for a period of six months .

This case will be reactivated on July 30, 1964.

B*.

COVER. PAGE

9618-10019

NW 45754 DooId: 32309255 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-263 (Rev 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV-STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

JOSEPH FRANCIS

CIVELLO, aka

DATE

7/3/63

REPORT MADE BY

IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/3-28/63

AR

TYPED BY

s1

REFERENCE:

Dallas report of SA MILTON L. NEWSOM, 1/28/63.

C .

ADMINISTRATIVE:

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following is a list of informants utilized in

the following of the activities of CIVELLO and his associates

in the Dallas Division:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

DL-182-PC and DL-185-PC, contacted by SAS ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE.

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE contacted by

SAS ROBERT M. BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE.

Confidential source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit, IRS, contacted by SA IVAN D. LEE.

ON CHARENT

- Bureau (92-2824)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2824

100

REC- 26

1 - USA, Fort Worth

1 - Dallas (92-36)

• JUL 8 1963

BhECiVr

ДИЛЕ

VEGEI.

ДЕРДЛЕ

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY--

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. --

1i813

HOW FWD.

BY

3 30 NOTATIONS

far thori

18 CHE

tB1

6 O JUL 2 2 1963

U.S. GOVERNMENT.PRINTING OFFICE

10-76324-1

gridi ivoria

HH 45754 DocId:32309255 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 92-36

r...

The following is a list of informants being utilized

in the following of the activities of CIVELLO and his asso-

ciates in the Dallas division:

DL-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON

contacted by

JEK Act 6 (4)

L. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

DL-140-d contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCI

ontacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

PCI

contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN

GRIFFIN.

PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI conacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential

Source

contacted by SA MILTON L.

NEWSOM.

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE contacted by SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special Agent,

IRS, contacted bÿ SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence Unit,

IRS, contacted by SAS MILTON L. NEWSOM and ROBERT M. BARRETT.

UACB, this investigation is being placed in a pending

inactive status for a period of six months. The case will be

reactivated on 6/1/63 and report submitted thereafter.

B*

Cover Page

318-1019

HH 45754

DocId: 32309255

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 92-36

LEADS

EL PASO, HOUSTON, AND OKLAHOMA CITY DIVISIONS

Report results of investigation requested in rerep.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will maintain contact with sources relative to

current activities of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO.

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following is a list of informants being

utilized in following the activities of CIVELLO and his.

associates in the Dallas Division:

JEK Act 6 (4)

DI-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-105-C contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DI-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

DI 140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCT.

contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM:

PCI

Jeontacted by SA WILL HAYDEN GRIFFIN.

PCI

JOSEPH N. FERRARI contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source

]contacted by SA MILTON L.

NEWSOM

Confidential Source JEROME J. CRANE Contacted by SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special

Agent, IRS, contacted by

SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit,

IRs, contacted by SA's MILTON I. NEWSOM

and

ROBERT M. BARRETT.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DI T-1 iS DL-105.C, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL.

T-2 1s DL-80-C, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

T-3 1s PCI

contacted by SA

MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL T-4 is DL- 129-C, contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

COVER PAGE

NW 45754 DooId: 32309255 Page 7

---

## Page 8

DL 92-36-

ADMINISTRATIVE

Informant Coverage

The following is a list of impormants being

utilized in following the activities

Of CIVELLO and his

associates in the Dallas Division:

AJFK Act 6 (4)

DL-95-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DI-105- contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DL-122-C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

DL-129-C contacted by SA JAMES W. BOOKHOUT.

DL-140-C contacted by SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING.

PCI

contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

PC I

contacted by SA WILL HAYDEN

GRIFE IN ®

PCI

JOSEPH N. FERRARI contacted by SA ROBERT M.

BARRETT.

Confidential Source

contacted by SA

MILTON I. NEWSON.

Confidential Source JEROME I. CRANE contacted by

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT:

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special

Agent,

IRs, contacted by SA MILTON L. NEWSON.

Confidential Source KENNETH SLANE, Intelligence

Unit, IRS, contacted by SAs MILTON L. NEWSO

and

ROBERT M. BARRETT

Identity of Informants

Dallas, Texas COn-

tacted

by SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

DI T-3

is

DI T'=4

is

DL-80-C contacted by SA MILTON I. NEWSOM.

PCI

contacted by sA

ROBERT

M.

BARRETT.

DI

T-5

is

DI

DL

T-6 is pCI

C contacted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

contacted by

SA MILTON L. NEWSOM.

REVIEWED BY

EBUJFK TASK FORGE

ON

7.1-98 lat

*". SAGE IN FULL

_EASE IN PART

I /VIAL DEMIAL

D

Cover

Page

-97

NW 45754 DooId: 32309255 Page 8

---

## Page 9

DI 92-36

JFK Act 6 (4)

DL T-T IS ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN,

IRS, Intelligence

Unit, Dallas, Texas who requested his identity

be kept copidential.

DL T-8 is PCI

Dallas, Texas contacted

by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

This investigation was placed in a pending

inactive status on 3/23/62 and was reactivated on 9/1/62.

Regular contacts were maintained with informants and

sources concerning CIVELLO's activities during that time.

In all gambling investigations conducted by the dallas

Office, Agents have remained alert for any indication of

CIVELLO being involved in gambling activities or other

illegal activities.: All Agents have been alerted to the

Bureau's interest in CIVELLO®

Leads set forth above are for the purpose of

again alerting informants and sources in the Dallas Division,

as well as those in surrounding areas, of the Bureau's continu

ing interest in CIVELLO, and to obtain any pertinent infor -

mation concerning him.

Offices receiving this report are requested to

thoroughly pursue all information developed

concerning

CIVELLO, during requested investigation, and set out

apropriate leads upon receipt of same.

MT. JACOB TANZER, who identified himself as a

Justice Department Attorney, personally contacted the Dallas

Office on May 16, 1962 and made arrangements to discuss

the CIVELLO case with SA MILTON L. NEWSON ON MaY 17, 1962.

The Bureau was requested to advise concerning. TANZER'S

status with the Department and furnish specific instructions

concerning the contact by TANZER.

The Bureau advised on May 16, 1962 that TANZER'S

position with the Department had been verified.

It was

pointed out that it is usually the custom of the Department

to inform the Bureau of the presence of a Departmental

Attorney in a field division.

In this instance the

Department had not advised the Bureau. The Bureau stated

E

Cover Page

45754 DocId: 32309255 Page 9

---

