# docid-32286561

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10337

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

12/16/1959

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, ARREST, SUSP, SHOOTING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286561 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

2=

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI

DATB: December 16, 1959

FROM

Legat, Havana (92-1)

-1

SUBJECT:

SALVATORE G. SCALIA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

, Was., ANTI-RACKETEERING

(Bureau file 92-2781, Havana 92-1): . In the

information submitted

there are frequent references to the captioned individual.

A letter has been received by the Embassy in Havana

from the State Beverage Department of Florida, 4768-70 N. W.

7th Avenue, Miami, advising that the captioned individual, whose

name was followed

by the "Twenty Two Club," had made application

for a State Beverage License. His arrest

none assigned, Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba,

as a suspect 10/24/58. No charge or

to cargo or dispod ton

was noted as "FBI #:

Arrested or received

disposition." Mr.

D. E. Yund,

District Supervisor requested information as to the final dis-

position of the aforementioned charge and whether or not the

conviction was a felony or misdemeanor:

HAV-32, who is well acquainted with the background

data concerning SALVATORE G. SCALIA, recalled the above arrest

and release of the subject.

It was

at a time when all gamblers

operating in the Havana area were fingerprinted and photographed

in order to have a record of those individuals.

This information

may be furnished by the Miami office to Mr. YUND but the source

should be protected.

In addition, for the information of the Bureau and the

Miami office, HAV-32 stated that SCALIA, whose full name is listed

as SALVATORE G. SCALIA RUGIERES, was involved in a shooting in

Havana but the girl he shot who was maintaining intimate relations

with him did not die and upon recovery stated she had accidently

shot herself. This shooting occurred on November 13, 1958. Due

to influence which the subject, through SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

was

able to exercise on the BATISTA

police regime, no official

record

was made of this incident FX-139 RE 11 21.

118

Both BAY 32 and RAY 33 are moli aégalated fit ScALIA

and stated that under the influence of SANTOYTRAFFICANTE, he came n

to think of himself as a "big shot and gangster" and actually became

a nuisance to TRAFFICANTE so that he was glad that SCALIA left

Havana. It was the! opinion of both of these sources that if SCALIA

6 - Bureau (2-Miami) peut

1' - Havana

25 DEC 18 1959

ELS: MEG

(7)

379

80 DEC 3 0 1959

DocId: 32286561 Page 2

---

