# docid-32304112

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10124

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 7-6920-6885

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. SL

DIRECTOR. FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 04/07/1958

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

BBA, ASSOC, BUSS, FIRE, RANSOM MONEY, CLARIDGE HOTEL, CHARGE

ACCOUNTS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45703 DocId: 32304112 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SL 7-429

JSB: cah

On March

.?, 1958, 2:30 P. M.

PCI,

was contacted

by SA HOWARD C. KENNEDY

at his home,

at which time he advised he is currently working a split shift

as radio dispatcher Ace Cab Company,

relleving other operators,

and is now working

there each Saturday, 8:00 A. M. to

4:00 P. M., on Sundays from 4:00 P. M.

to 12:00 Midnight,

Tuesdays from 12:00 Midnight to 8:00 A. M. and on Thursday

from 4:00 P.M.

to 12:00 Midnight.

1s

still off whiskey

and still under treatment by Dr. WEBBR, Wellston, Missouri,

for chronic alcoholism.

with zeference to several new charge accounts

or charges opened recently,

for several residents at Claridge

Hotel these charges were

said that he had heard at Ace Cab Company,

that

"for some offleials" who were staying

at the Clariage,

but he did not know their identities.

He said the possibility

exists that BARNEYyBAKER. International

Union Organizer, may be in St. Louis,

but had not heard

definitely that he is in the city.

mo

With reference to COSTELLO,

advised that

recently DUNCAN

DAVIS has been driving COSTELLO around at

night and he has

heard that DAVIS has been taking COSTELLO

to Attorney MORRIS A. SHENKER'S office.

He did not know

any specific dates, but said that he had heard that DAVIS

had driven COSTELLO around on several occasions at night

recently.

He stated that on the previous day, March 6, 1958,

he had observed JOE COSTELLO in his office downstairs at

3:45 P. M. at which time COSTELLO was making a telephone

call.

He said that at that time he observed COSTELLO's

Cadillac parked just off Lucas Street in front of COSTELLO's

office.

He said

that he

again observed COSTEILO (who

apparently had left the office, time not known) at 7:45

P. M., when COSTELLO again pulled up on the lot in back of

his office in his Cadillac.

He said COSTELLO a couple of minutes later called up-

stairs to him in the radio tower to inquire where DUNCAN DAVIS

was

at that time.

said he informed COSTELLO he

OTHER 4

1'8

NW 45703 DocId: 32304112 Page 2

---

