# docid-32332524

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90102-10171

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-89680-37

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: MM

TITLE :

DATE: 09/17/1974

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: AT, INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332524

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAILED &

SEP

1974

"RET

Alstel

SECRET/BENSITIVE, HARKING NOTICE,

BANSITIVA INTELLICKICE SOURCES

AND MEXICOS INVOLVED

9/17/74

EX-105

1 - Mr. W. A. Branigan

REC-89

1

~ Foreign Liaison Unit

1

Tas

Milanat

- Hr. R. J. Ivey

1:5-

1 - Mr. A HAS MASCA ATION TO

FrOS!

• D/OR.

FOSLAVEL TO FLORIDA OF AN AGINY POR

XEARIN INDE

i URIMATION

THE: SOVIETS IN BOGOTAL 5Y

'ENT. EXCEpt

CUZAN EXILE ACTIVITIBS

FoR BRACKETS K 12-15-90

5L0/KSR 3-6-98 (JFK)

Clanstfied "secret/Bonsitive, Varning Notice,

Bensitive Intelligence Sources and Nethods Involved" because

1e contana laPoration no clasaltied by CIA. @(U)

sebatal to CIA 7/11/74.

Attached for each office 1s copy of CIA letter

datad 919174 1a the captioned mtter.

In vler of the

MIALIEN placed on the CIA INFOTUREION, 1t CAnnOt De

(55K) 811197

CLASSIER BY 5468 SLO/GUL

1 - CArRERA (EnSlOBUTE)

1 - Now Tort

(ENSIONUIO)

ALT

ODE INVOLVED

*ONN

165

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affoirs -

Files & Com. _

VHN: emj

(9)

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. _

Inspection

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Lagal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

So: 5 40C:

Traint

DocId: 32332524'^FafgOy L

: '7;

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

SECRETI

TELETYPE UNIT E

COATIGN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

T29

(r) prose (15)

4894

- 15421

DocId: 32332524

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETI

SECRETIVE STEVE GENEE SOURCESCE.

SENSITIVE INCELUIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

Airtel to Miami

Travel to Florida of

the Soviets in Bogota

on Cuban Exile Activities

sent to

So Repor

(5x)(7)

NOTE:

CIA previously advised that a Cuban journalist

residing in Colombia Would travel to Miami to attend

meeting of anti-Castro group.

This Journalist was

described as/an informant of the Soviets in Colombia Who

had been instructed to give thema detailed report on the S

aforementioned anti-Castro group

and to compile a complete

study of all anti-Castro organizations in Miami and the ir

activittes.

CLA also advised that one or its represensatives

planned to meet the Cuban journalistland debriet him on the

information he had acquired and intended to furnish the

Soviets in ColombiaS CIA requested our concurrence In this

activity which was granted and since the Journalist

actavn information concerning Cuban exiles and thei as to

activities, we asked CIA to give us a summary of the

information he acquired. CIA has now done this. (

SECRE SENSTEIVE,

WARNING NOTICE,

SENSITIVE

INIGLLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

LIDNUSECRET

• 3 -

DocId: 32332524

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

18/94

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

JECRET

FBI INFo owly

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

SENSITIVE

5668.800/GCL

CO. * WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

8 853

TO

ATTENTION :

SUBJECT

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

REC89

Intelligence Division

Travel to Florida of an agent for the Soviets

in Bogota to report on Cuban Exile Activities

ExCEpt FoR

thE BRACKETS

k12-15-97

place cen

93/650

1.

Reference is made to our CIR-316/00990-74 dated 17

April 1974 and to your reply of 11 July 1974.

(TEK)

/ 2. [Carlos Miguel KASSEL (aISo

• known as LACEL) Castro](s)

was in Miami, Florida from 11 August to 29 August 1974.

3(S(KASSEL's natural cover for his stay in Miami and

contacts with Cuban exiles was that of "Asistente Internacional"

to the Union de Trabajadores de Colombia (UTC) and "Jefe de

Redaccion" of "Justicia Social" published by the UTC in

Since the

UTC is sympathetic to and supports some

Cuban exile groups, KASSEL feels his visit to and expenses

in Miami can be fully justified within the context of his

functions as a UTC official.

4.

Miami area:

The following were KASSEL'S

main contacts in the

A.

Ignacio LEDON Iglesias, former Miami

area

• committee Secretary for Propaganda of the Partido Revolu-

• cionario del Pueblo (PRP), left-winger, friend of Mario

RIVADULLA (see belgri

REC-83

B. Mario RIVADULLA,

PRP

official and radio percer

ality in Santo Domingo, Dominican

Republic.

RIVADULLA

arrived in Miami from Santo Domingo on 14 August.

17344)

SEP X8 197

CIRA-0500-74

Classified by 061393.

Exempt from General Declassification

Schedule of .EO. 11652 Exemption Category 5B(2). Impossible

to determine date of automatic declassification.

UNRECO

WT02/1115

XEROX

SEGRET

SENSTIVE

S..

20 1974

DocId: 32332524 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017, •

SECRET

SENSITIVE

2

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

C.

Ramiro de LA FE, brother of Ernesto de LA FE

who had been

recently released from jail in Cuba.

D. Rolando MASFERRER, Editor of "Libertad."

E. Alberto DIAz Masvidal, Editor Of "Miami Extra."

F.

Max)LESNIK, Editor of "Replica."

G. VicenteRUBIERA, leader of Telephone Workers

Trade Union in Miami.ri

H. Santiago REY Pernas, former Cuban Minister of !

Interior.

in the Cuban Army.

I. Alberto del RIO Chaviano, former Brig. General

5.

Following are highlights of KASSElf? report for

our representative who met him in Miami:

The Partido Revolucionario del Pueblo (PRP)

has ceased

to exist for all practical purposes.

According

to Ignacio LEDON, responsibility for the disintegration of the

PRP falls on its

as a "farsante."

leader Antonio SANTIAGO, whom KASSEl egscribes

B.

Mario RIVADULLA, a member of the PRP Executive

Committee who now lives in Santo Domingo, told KAsSE clie

it is impossible to organize a political movement in

which would be capable of

influencing in any way the develop-

ment of events in Cuba.

RIVADULLA now believes that there

is no alternative but to await a spontaneous change of

events in Cuba and a possible overthrow or assassination of

Castro by the military.

c. [KASSELSttended a meeting of about 15 persons

on 16 August presided over by Rolando MASFERRER, Director

of the weekly "Libertad." MASFERRER told the participants

that they should begin

firing practice on a Florida farm to

prepare themselves

for

action against Cuba before November,

because he (MASFERRER) is sure that Castro will be overthrown

by that time. MASFERRER pointed out that U.S. Security and

CINC

SENSITIVE

DocId: 32332524 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SENSITIVE

3

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

Intelligence Services are aware of his plans and that he has

no difficulty in their implementation.

Participants at

the meeting were then asked to contribute funds for the

purchase of weapons; the total cash raised exceeded $1,000.00.

(SKASSEL commented that it is his impression that the funds

raised were intended for MASFERRER'S personal use rather

than the purchase of weapons.

possibility of founding a conspiratorial and secret political

movemen't to create a mechanism of penetrating Cuba for the

purpose of contributing to conditions which would result in

a military coup against Castro.

The movement would be

headed "in absentia" by Ernesto de LA FE, who had been

released from prison in Cuba two months ago.

The decision

to launch this movement was made on 25 August in the apart-

ment of Ramiro de LA FE.

in addition

_CAVEDAS and Miguel A. ZERQUEIRA (Cubans) and Juan LOPEZ

(naturalized American). The new movement was named Movimiento

| Independente Radical de Cuba (MIRC) and Ramiro de LA FE

i: .

was named its temporary leader until such time as Ernesto

de LA FE can leave Cuba. The MIRC will seek contact with

Cuban armed forces to launch a coup against Castro

and it

will also seek contact with anti-Communist groups in Brazil

and with the government of Chile.

already to have contact with Patricia BERDUGO, a Chilean

supposedly working for the Chilean Intelligence Service in

Miami.

During the meeting, Armando MEDINA said that he

had once worked for CIA and that he participated in an

attack on a Spanish merchant vessel which was mistaken

the Sierra Maestra of the Cuban Merchant Fleet. (KASSEL](S)

was

named the bditor of the MIRC Manitesto

published In the Latin

American press on laden will be

E. (KASSEL met with Alberto

DIAZ Masvidal, Editor-

in-Chief of 'Miami Extra," and offered his services as

unpaid contributor of articles from Bogota.

The offer

was accepted.

COPRET

SOSINE

3

DocId: 32332524 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SENSTIN

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

6. [KASSEL's draft report to his Soviet contact in

Bogota is a single-spaced nine-page paper entitled "Composicion

Politica de la Emigracion Cubana en Miami, Florida." It

covers those groups with which KASSEL has

become most

familiar:

the

PRe, the MIRC, Alta 66, and several other

minor groups.

Following are

highlights of that report (5)

A. LIn response to a specific requirement from

KASSEL's Soviet contact to determine if U.S. Government

agencies, including specifically the CIA, support any of

hese groups, KASSEL makes emphatically clear in his report

that none of

the exile groups have the support of the U.s.

Government, although some groups falsely claim to have such

support.

He points out that the U.S. Government not only

ignores

the political exiles, but places high priority on

its relations with the USSR

and is "disposed" to lift the

blockade of Cuba and reestablish relations with Havana.

In connection with the latter point, KASSEL reports on his

interview

with Dr. Alberto DIAZ Masvidal, Director of the

spanish edition of Miami Herald, who told

KASSEL that

reestablishment of U.S. - Cuban relations is now imminent (S)

Regarding on-island operations of Cuban exile

groups, KASSEL Concludes that none of them have any operational

contacts in Cuba.

DI. Orlando BoscH,

Regarding terrorism, KASSELS

reports that

a fugitive from the U.S. who now lives

in Venezuela under

an assumed identity, and Antonio VEGIANA,

a founding member of the PRP who is now in prison, have a

plan of attack

against Cuban

embassies and consulates and

against Soviet Bloc missions in Latin America, to be

merica her unidentified

into effect when Venezuelations with Cuba.

He also singles

out Jose de Jesus QINQAUMA, a Cuban political gangster who

last year planned an attack against a Soviet family in

Venezuela,

of a terrorist campaign

against Cuban and Soviet Bloc

diplomatic installations

in the entire Western Hemisphere.

SECRET

SENSITIVE

4

DocId: 32332524 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2IUT Hoter:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SENSTIVE

5

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

If you wish, we will forward to you copies of

(S) KASSEL'S

reports to our representative (paragraph 5 above)

and to his Soviet contact in Bogota (paragraph 6 above).

We shall advise you if [KASSELyVisits Miami again

a mission for his Soviet contact in Bogota]SIf

and when

he does, we shall request that a Miami representative of

participate in our representative's meetings

with (KASSEl as the subject matter ofCASSals reporting

is of direct interest to the Bureau.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

vid A. Phillios

SEBRET

SENSTILE

DocId: 32332524

Page

---

