# docid-32316506

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/25/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10348-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-5215-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NK

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/28/1963

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS:

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, INC MEMO

v9.1

NH 45927

DocId: 32316506 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (Rev: 5-12-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

CRIMINAL INFLUENCE IN

INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF

TEAMSTERS,.

LOCAL 560, UNION

CITY,

NEW JERSEY

DATE

2/28/63

REPORT MADE BY

FRANK H. DONNELLY

CHARACTER: OF CASE

• INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/27/62 - 2/26/63

AR

TYPED!

IZ

dol.

SYNOPSIS:

REFERENCES:

Report of FRANK H: DONNELLY dated 12/26/62

at Newark.

Boston letter to Newark 1/22/63.

Bulet 2/12/63.

Newark letter to Boston 2/26/63.

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU

Original and one copy of a letterhead meno characterizing

informants, dated and captioned as above.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

+2

On 11/8/62, NK 2181-C advised that ANTHONY PROVENZANO,

President, Local 560, IBT, has a close association with ARMAND

SPECIAL AGEN

APPROVED

OPIES, MADI

Bar Bureau (92-5215

2 - USA, Newark

- Boston. (92-656)

?,New Haven (92-234)

- Detrolt' (INFO)

- Newark

(92-937)

pos 1 1105 UN.83

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

9275315-130

• MAR

3*4. 1963

2

PEG AB

EX-101

Organized, Crime

Room -

252"

1535

14-63

158s Rea

PROPERTY OF FBI. - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loa

NW 45927

DocId: 32316506

---

## Page 3

NK 92-937

ADMINISTRATIVE (CON'T):

FAUGNO dating from the time that FAUGNO Was Involved In

union activities in the International Longshoremen's

Association.

Informant believes that sone of the money

that FAUGNO invests in shylocking and other enterprises

comes from PROVENZANO and Local 560 funds. FAUGNO, according

to the informant, is presently engaged in shylocking,

numbers and fetcing stolen goods.

- .

On 12/27/62, NK 2181-C advised. that. HAROLD KONIGSBERG:

became involved in a brawl at a crap game in the Marion section

of Jersey City during the weekend of 12/15 - 16/62, and

KONIGSBERG stabbed one FRANK ROMEO who was running the

As a result of all this, FAUGNO

went looking for KONIGSBERG and after several days, located

him and shot him with a shot gun.

this

shooting: a meeting was held to straighten the affair out.

ANTHONYX PROVENZANO along with JOSEPH ARTHUR CICARELLI and

ANGELO DE CARLO, both of whom are well-known hoodlums in the

On 1/17/63, 'PCI

stated that while he

was & member of Local 560, IBT, ANTHONY "Three Fingerg"

CASTELLITO, an officer of that Local, was reported missing.

stated that of all the reasons

expressed for the

disappearance of CASTELLITO the one that was popularly accepted

was the one that CASTELLITO and PROVENZANO were in violent

disagreement over PROVENZANO's insistence that welfare money

he used for shylocking and other illegal activities. CASTELLITO

as Secretary-Treasurer of Local 560 maintained the posithod that

PROVENZANO should seek other sources of revenue for his

investments and when it became apparent that CASTELLITO was

going to maintäin this position, PROVENZANO had him killed.

INFORMANTS:

NK T-1

NK. 2282-C

OTHER 4

B

COVER PAGE

HH 45927 DocId: 32316506

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-937

INFORMANTS (CON'T):

NK T-2

PCI WALLACE O'REILLY

NK T-3

PCI

LEADS:

BOSTON

AT MANCHESTER,

concerning his initial contacts with officials of Local 560;

Ibt, Union City, N. &. and Local 86z, IBT; Newark, In regard

to their leasing of cars from "Bridgeport United Delivery.

NEW HAVEN

AT BRIDGEPORT, CONNECTICUT:

Will at the State National

Bank and City Trust Company review and report information

concerning the financing of Bridgeport United Delivery, DANIEL A.

WAHLBERG, President.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK,

NEW JERSEY:

Will upon receipt of the

above information rediscuss the facts concerning Bridgeport

United Delivery with the USA.

DETROIT (INFORMATION) :

One copy of this report being furnished Detroitifor

information.

OTHER 4

• 211t

C*

COVER. PAGE

NW 45927

DocId: 32316506

Page

---

