# docid-32575055

## Page 1

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2918) (92-2914)

SAE, PITPSBUROH (92-228) 192-236)

SAMUEL MAMMARINO, 148. 1

JABRTRI MANNARIIC, HaS.

00s

Pittaburgh

8/12/58

Enclosed 18 report of dA RICHAND GONDON DOUCE, Fitiaburgh,

dated

8/12/58.

RESEARICE

Report of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCh, Pittaburgh, 7/8/58.

ADSINTSTRATIVS

RECORDS OF THE

SITTSELNAE

ДЕРАТИЬ

HANTATINO MARESTED DI 1931

SUSPICIOUS

CARHYTIG A CONCEALED TRAP

SHAA, CAARA GUA

10 WA

CARRYING

35 CALLER RE

BE

CONSIGNED

ARTED AND W

10. 2011

Infornation inoluded in enclosed report under the heading

Criminal Astivities as to the Identitied of Nu Ben Movelty.

Company enployees was disseninated to the Internal. Revenue

service,

Pittsbungh, by letter dated Juty 22, 1950.

same inforation was prepared in letterhead manoreneun

form and transmitted to the bureau for diaseniration te

the Internal Revenue Service, Vashington, D. C., by letter

daved July 22, 1958.

It will be noted that under the heading of Assoclates that

Information was raceived regarding check pasalog autitity

on the part of CARE IRVIIG NOLE,

FBI No. 968588, In New

Kendington.

Fa., during June, 1958.

Previous laveatitation

I that NOli, shoe true name is apparently

CARL racontRE, 1s known in new orleans, lowdlama, and wen

Kensington, Pa., 23 CARL NOLL, Since the serles of checke

#: - Bureau (Encl. 4)

1 - 2ittsburgh

(2 - 92-220)

12 - 92-236)

92-2418

COORDED

18 1958

RGD: b8/vmn

SHOULT

45854 DooId: 32575055 Page 1

tars

CRICINAL

---

## Page 2

PO

92-228

P0 92-236

passed in Me Kensington were signed CARD NOES no ITSE

investigation tes instituted as the cheete would not cone

within the purrion of the Tuse Statuse in accordance

with existing departmental poldey with respect to true

name chocks

SADE

(tentnoreland County)

w111 maintain regular contact with confidentie

sources y

VOXE- DERVOS,

MAZIER

SEARSEX, PO 545-C, and PG 564-0

for information pegardine subjecta! legitimate enterprises,

orintnal actirities, and assodlates *

Mill recontact

fir and Mra, MARSTALl HOUD, neighborhood

* gaurees;

at 536 Charles Avenue,

and Mr.

and Mrs. JANsS C.

nedghborhood sources, at 216 Highland Avenue,

03.

Swift and Company,

(souzce ofanformation) to determino nether SAMUEL, MANNARING

and has assoctates have

boon ablo to intereot any local

drive-ta theaters in

their proposed food

end rofreshment

concésole business.

will interview ARCITE MILER,

so-ouner of ArCITE MILLER'E

Monte Cloching Store, for the purpose of confiming the

allegation that Al 2310, ala Al Rosa, reputed MANNARDIO

triesen men,

leased the canbling casino on Fames

Street

TrOn NITSER.

will antervier AL ZETD, DOX No. 574163, tho le said

to reside at 2640 Page Strect

(telephone number Edison 5+0367),

to determine when and whore he applled for VeS, eithzenship

and the name he used in connection with such anolication,

Will also interview ZEXD with respect to the nunerous

arcosts listed on his identifloation record in order that

& lesterhend memorandun may be Alasentrated to the Imnigration

and Naturalisation Service 18 10 1c discovered that he has sio

ectually applied for citizenship on falled to rosteter as an

allen:

HH

45854

DooId: 32575055

Page 2

---

## Page 3

012,

will report resulte of lavestigation being conducted by

-Mashington Fiela Offtoe to Identity subsertber to telephone

CO: 576414

alled fron the tiu len Novelty Company on 12/16/57

ond 2/ 28/56€

#13. 0112 report investigation being conducted by Legat hone

concoming the report that GABRIEL. MANNARIO may be living in

Rome,: Italys

+11,

v11l report additional information reported by the tegat

«Havena cancerning subjeetal activatico in Cuba.

will report investigatten betng conduoted by Legnt

Grand entitied by the ration Board of re to Fostes

as being out of torn contacts for the wANtARINd brothers,

1212 report investigation being conducted by Oleveland

Warrens

onio, to debermine whether CHARLES MURATE alleged

"Maria" monter has provided a hide-out for SEBASTIAN JOKI

LA BOCCA and GABRIEL MANNARITO sineo their disappearance from

the Lacesourse eased

17, Will follow and report prosecution e9 20% DANNAS,

wad as the leing Company Office, North 316e, Pasteburghs

the repore thay one of her neenboro, ens accus 16

hiding cui en Liaison wanted by the New Kensington Follec

Deperiment who nay be identseal with GABREES WANNARIO,

19• Wais pecontact WILLAH BRAZN, Detectavo, Allegheny

County Detectire Bureau, regarding the repose thaw the

ANTANINO brothers are backing bingo pancs operating in

Nokcesports Pa.

$20, N113 recontat FOL ALURED CHARIES ZAFPA condeming

-the report that: the HANNANINO brothers have & mabors

operation et loa's Minited, 1920 lunay Arenuer involving

DAVID LAHRICE, P6L No: 1S300e1e and 50000 8h0 34

probably identical with SONNY cinsurvi, hylook for the

MANHARINO organsation in. Now Kensington.

NW 45854 DooId: 32575055

Page 3

---

## Page 4

92-220

20

02-036

421.

wal moansain concast with intosmance concoring the

undue pressure to bear upon opesators of bars and after hours

clubs So New Kendington

to purchase Stonoy Been instead

of folling Rook: Beow on misk lesing pinball machines in

their ostiblishments;

CEDITAT

MANY COVERAGE

T0 545-e

P0 56440

WALTER J, SHANKEY, confidential source

MIRE ZORVOS, confidenitel source

As a matter of

intomstion WAItER d.

SITAROSY: was forced to

rotire from the Now Kenaington Poltoe Depártment in 1956

because of a heart absacka

Is uns recently rovermined

by hãe docton end pronomesa physically fit to return to

duty and 1g now wallcing & beat

in downtom New Kensington,

In vien of SHARIaTio reinatatement on the Newt Kensington

Poleo Porse he no longer qualified as an infomant and his

ICT file was closed eininistretively.

In the future

DARKEY will be contacted as a confidential source.

Jester dated July 35, 1958, the Burenu man savised of

the olose bequaintance of forner POL MIXE: ZERVOS with

Asatatant Attorney Coneral D, MALCOLM-ANDERSON, V, S, Department

of dustice;

3720938

HH 45854 DocId: 32575055 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG

92-228

PO

92-236

T-16 LS JOSEPEL KERNAN, POT of Miami Office, contaeted by

3A ROBERT X. LEWIS,

0-17 10 WALDER J.

SHARKEX,

confidential source,

contacted

by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE,

3-18 18 WILLIAM BRAIN, Detective, Allegheny County Deteotive

Bureau,

Pittsburgh, contacted by SA GENE IL. STUDESAKER:

T-19 10 KM 644-0 contacted by SA WILLIAM L. EDDY.

The Miani

Office on July 1, 1958, advised that extreme caution should

be given to information furnished by Mt 644-0 and no dissentnation

should be made which would in any way compronice his identity.

I-20 1s PO 509-0 contacted by SA JOHN $, PORTELLA,

T-21 la an anonynous informant who contacted Assistant Attorney

General D. MALCOLM ANDERSON, U. S. Department of Justice, by

letter dated June 16, 1958, offering to furnish information

regarding the activittes of several Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

The anonymous Informant in his letter of June 16, 1958,

suggested that an ad be: inserted in the personal column

of the "Pittsburgh Press" addressed to "Tiger" and furnishing

an address where he could write to Mr. ANDERSON personally:

A post office box has been rented by the Pittsburgh office

and several letters regarding the activitles of Pittaburgh

Ma: 109.4:

HH 45854

DooId:32575055 Page 5

---

