# docid-32305828

## Page 1

Released under the Jont.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10458

HQ

92-6054-2317

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, LA

DATE:

04/24/1968

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

LCN, GENTILE, NICOLO, PROSECUTION, OC, ACT, TRA,

ITALY, MAFIA VIOLENCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305828

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAILEO 21

APR 2 4 1968

SAC, Los Angeles

April 24, 1968

Director, FBI

1 - Mro

Kelly

1

• Mr.

Rutland

1 - Mr.

Enery

LA GOSA NOSTRA

ANTI- RACKETEERING • CONSPERACY

Enclosed is a copy of a translated manuscript prepared

by Nicolo Gentile, who, until his flight to italy in the latter

1930's to avoid a narcotics prosecution, operated in the upper

levels of the United States Malla In valous cities.

Though the substance of this documont has previously

been

included in a la Cosa Nostra national summary report, this

manuseript should be revieved, particularly by Agents handling

LA 4446-C-16,

for the purpose of further developing our knowledge

o1 earLy 14 1052

• Nostra history, nuch of which has had & bearing

on later events, pover structures, leadership trends, etc.

It is noted for exauple that LA 4448-C-Tg states thut

former los Angeles "boss" Joe Ardizonne was murderod in 1931 by

the; Jack Dragna faction which took control of In Cosa Nostra in

los Angeles, California, apparently fron about that time t1ll

Dragna's death in 1956.

You will also note that Gentile, in

discussing the events leading up to the murder of salvatore

Maranzono

on 9/10/31, and

the subsequent fornation of the "Comnission"

shortly thereafter, recounts that with the word of inranzano's

murder, a purging operation was undertaken in which many of

those aligned with Maranzano were murdered.

Gentile refers to

this operation as the "Sicilian vespers," as have certain otber

sources in comenting on this purge, which vas reported to have

aled victims in various parte of me l dO'APA E5 "6a

You should explore with LA 441-C-TE his recollection

of the above situation and determine if he knew whether Ardizonies

death cane about as part of

purge of Maranzano"s sympathizers.

You should continue to make full use of this source,

and any other los Angeles source thus qualified,

to assist in

the full development of key events in la Cosa Nostra's history

in this country..n.

Advise the Bureau of results.

al son

¿Loach

Chop

sper

lahan

trad

(6)

Room -

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32305828

Page 2

---

