# docid-32322052

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10378-10210

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3802

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: OGC

TO : OPCA

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/29/1998

2

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322052 Page 1

133

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

(01/26/1998)

SEGRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

43°

Precedence:

PRIORITY

To: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs Attn:

Date: 05/29/1998

Ms. Wilkins

Ms.

Keeley

Ms. Lamey

From: Office of the General Counsel

Administrative Law Unit/ Rm. 7338

Contact:

Williams Jeff/ Ext. 3602

Approved By: Kelley Patrick w pwk

Drafted By: Williams Jeffs

Case ID #s 66F-HQ-1201415-1 - 5€

62-H0-1029205 - 3802

Title:

(0)

JOHN F. KENNEDY RECORDS

COLLECTION ACT OF 1992

Task Force, that each Headquarters Division or Office conduct a

search of their offices,

documents or information related President John v. Kenned or any

assassination, report the results of that search, and forward all

responsive material to the JFK Task Force.

(4) N)

Derived From:

Various Sources

Reason:

1.5 (c)

Declassif

On: x3

Enclosures:

(U) (1) Civil Discovery Unit file identified as "JFK

Task Force." Point of contact: Ms. Lisa Browning, Ext. 3028.

(U)S) (2) National Security Law Unit file identified as

"JFK Task Force."

Point of contact: Ms. Anne Buckleitner,

Ext. 3812.

(W(5) (3) National Security Law Unit file identified as

"House Committee on Assassinations."

Point of contact:

Ms. Anne Buckleitner, Ext. 3812.

SECRET

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED FROM ENCLOSURES 2, 3 AND 4.

DocId: 32322052 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

•' DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs From: Office of

the General Counsel

Re :

:66F-HQ-1201415-I 62-HQ-1029205

(U) (4) Investigative Law Unit document identified as

"Addendum Legal Counsel Division DOC: 1dr 4/27/77" with attachment

titled "Memorandum of Understanding Concerning Background

Investigations for the House Select Committee on Assassinations."

Point of contact: SSA Elaine N. Lammert, Ext. 5540

Details: (U) The enclosures are forwarded in response to OPCA's

request that OGC conduct a search for material related to the

assassination of President Kennedy, report the results of that

search, and forward any such material to the JFK Task Force.

(U). For the sake of completeness, we also note that

the Administrative Law Unit and the Civil Litigation Unit (I)

hold duplicate copies of various records related to President

Kennedy's assassination. These records were provided to those

units by the JFK Task Force in connection with Task Force

requests for legal guidance and assistance.

If desired, we will

return those records to the Task Force for

retention.

CC:

1 - Mr. Parkinson, Rm. 7427

1

- Mr. T. Kelley, Rm. 7427

1

- Ms. Thornton, Rm. 7159

1

- Mr.

Bowman, Rm. 7975

1

- MI.

Evans,

Rm. 7975

TOMANT

- Mr. Cignoli, Rm.

5448

Ms.

Buckles, Rm. 7927

- Ms. Lammert, Rm. 7326

- Ms. Buckleitner,

Rm. 7975

- Mr. Schwartz, Rm. 7927

- Mr. Williams, Rm. 7338

1

- ALU Library

(InfP/JKF Records)

1 - ALU Tickler

SECRET

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

UNCLASSIFIED

• UPON REMOVAL OF ENCLOSURES 2, 3, AND 4.

2

DocId: 32322052

Page 3

---

