# docid-32306171

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/3/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10301

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1499-60

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: KELLOGG, RICHARD B.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

• TITLE :

DATE: 10/27/1960

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

FS, PDL, ACA, REOPEN, TEST, EXPATRIATION CASE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32306171

Page 1

---

## Page 2

sport..om

+D-263 15:25503

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

MIAMI

Date

Comt raentiar

10/27/60 :

Report made by

RICHARD B.

KELLOGG

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

9/14/60 - 10/25/60

Typed By:

Meg

FRANK ANTHONY

STURGIS, aka

Frank Fiorini

DECLASSIFISD BY BARMACIEN

ON 2-19-95

VER)

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Synopsis:

REFERENCES:

Report of SA RICHARD B. KELLOGG dated 8/18/60,

at Miami.

Report of SA LEMUEL W. KERR dated 9/28/60,

at Norfolk.

CLASSIFIED AMI

CC TO:

Vets

Gomen.

EXTENT ARTER LENION Asba

REQ. REC'D...

70/

-C-

REASON

FOIM, M,

a....

OCT 1 6 1963

ADMINISTRATIVE

DATE O

AB

EU FOR

ANS.

BY:

DECLASSIFICANON... 1o/a1/s0

Information copy to Norfolk due to interest

of that office in subject.

MM 639-S interviewed by SA RICHARD B. KELLOGG

MM 492-S interviewed by SA JAMES D. HAYES.

Special Agent

in Charge

Approved®

Copies made:

20,

Bureau (2-1499) (RM)

INS, Miami (RM)

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

- U. S. CUSTOMS, Miami (RM)

1

- Norfolk (97-13) (RM) (Dufo)

2 - Miami (2-192)

(1-105-1598 PEDRO DIAZ LANZ), S6O

(CRE HIS DS, CLA, ANG-150, ONI

Custom's

DATE FORW. 1L-14-6

HOW FORW.

BY UHN/SP

Do not write in spaces below

2-1499-60

APPROFRIATE ACENCIES

1c-2ad

or Yang 51 1930

BY RINGS

10

SLIP V

DAER

7/00111

NAT. TA

• loconed. to

31 NOV 1 01960

you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency. to which loaned

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: OFFICE: 0 385318

NW 54462 DooId:32306171

Page 2

REG. 4

---

## Page 3

MM 2-192

Contential

Technicalities on which subject's expatriation case.

ordered reopened deal with fact that subject repeatedly took -

Sth Amendment to questions asked of him at previous hearing

and PEDRO DIAZ LANZ did not testify on subject's behalf"

although he was supposed to have done so.

Case

was ordered

reopened to hear testimony of those two persons which,

according to the INS official handling matter, is very

unusual and not according to precedent. It is noted that

when SA KELLOGG saw subject at home of PEDRO DIAZ LANZ,

subject was casually questioned about the status of his

expatriation and without being specific he said he was rather

confident that it would be taken care of and indicated it

was being taken care of "in Washington."

Instant case is being closed in view of apparent

inactivity on part of subject individually and in view of

fact his only anti-CASTRO activity is apparently in conjunction

with DIAZ LANZ whose activities are presently being reported

in the case on DIAZ LANZ,

#organization, the CCC (Cuban

Constitutional Crusade), and case on the unity group which

includes his organization, the Liberation Alliance.

Coverage

of activities of PEDRO DIAZ LANZ and his organization will

be followed in future inoone or more of those cases so long

as the situation calls for such coverage and it is believed

such coverage

so dictates, The ill adequately cover subject..

If situation

separate case on subject will be reopened.

INFORMANTS

Identity of

Informant

Location of

Original Information

MM T-1 is MM. 639-S

MM T-2

is MM 492-S

Instant report, page

Instant report, page 2 4 7

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

concealed and I symbols were used only where necessary to

prefectentbe sources.

JFK TASK FORCE

OM

15/0dk

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

"STAL DENIAL

-B*-

COVER PAGE

J8d-10501

74 54462

DooId:32306171 Page 3

---

