# docid-32125691

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotela

DATE 0511-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10027-10028

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-1167

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. CG

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JFK, FPCC ALLEGED MEETINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/16/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32125691

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL SUREN UP TICS

TUATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT

OF JUSTIC

COMMUNICATIONS S

NOV 3 0 186

TELETYPE

Mir. Tolann

Tir.

Eniron

fer, Wour.

Nie. Саврет..

1. callinn

Carrad

URGENT

11-30-63

3-27

AM PEO

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, DALLAS

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 62-6115

2P DECLASSIFIED BY. 9803 ALKO

Pa2, tua

se Kolnes

ON 80152..

10: JEK.

1139

Gaody

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY, NOVEMBER TWENTYTWO!

LAST. DALLAS, TEXAS.(4)

RE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE ALLEGATION 4)

ON NOV. TWENTYEIGHT LAST, COL. JACKAREILLY, DIRECTOR OF

SPECIAL EVENTS, OFFICE OF MAYOR, CITY OF CHICAGO, ADVISED SA

HUBERT M. HART THAT AFTER HIS RETURN FROM PRESIDENT KENNEDY/S

FUNERAL HE HAD RECEIVED INFO FROM TONYXPEREZ, WHO IS

A RELIABLE,

WELL INFORMED, ANTI CASTRO CUBAN, WHO HAD IN PAST ASSISTED MAYOR

DALEY/S OFFICE RE CUBAN MATTERS. REILLY ADVISED PEREZ TOLD HIM

JOHN/ROSSEN HAD BEEN MEETING WITH SPCC. IN ROSSEN/S THEATER IN

PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT AND THAT

THESE MEETINGS MAD LASTED UNTIL THREE OR FOUR IN MORNING. REILLY

DESIRED FBI DIRECTLY INTERVIEW PEREZ BECAUSE OF NATURE OF INTO.(4)

PEREZ INTERVIEWED ELEVEN TWENTYNINE SIXTYTHREE BY SAS HERBERT K.

STALLINGS AND ROBERT R. GLENDON. PEREZ ADVISED HE DID NOT HAVE:

FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE OF ALLEGED FPCC MEETINGS WITH ROSSEN. HOWEVER

CHICAGE

HAD LEARNED THESE MEETINGS HAD TAKEN PLACE AT/SENATE. THEATER, MADISON

END PAGE ONE

REC- 12

62-109060-1

CLASS. & EXT. BY LOT6/ AMS abalan

16

REASON TOT

DANA DE DANIE

11-30

1104

25 DE0

5 4032 10 50

ATE AGENCIES AND FIE

OFFICES ADVISE

ĐIC POUTING SI

CONT

0 ..

DooId: 32125691 Page 2

---

## Page 3

" Released under the John F. 'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

RANCISE

PAGE TWO

AND KEDZIE, CHICAGO• PEREZ ADVISED THAT ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO HE

HAD DEBATED ROSSEN AT NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY AND THAT HE, PEREZ,

REPRESENTED CHICAGO COUNCIL FOR A DEMOCRATIC CUBA WHICH HAS

OPPOSED FPCC LINE AS APOLOGISTS FOR CASTRO. PEREZ HAD NO

SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS RE ASSASSINATION BUT ADVISED HE HAD APPRISED

REILLY OF FPCC MEETINGS BECAUSE OF ITS POSSIBLE NATIONAL IMPORTANCE!U

PEREZ WAS MOST COOPERATIVE BUT UNABLE TO PROVIDE SOURCES OF

INFO ON ROSSEN/S ACTIVITIES WITH EXCEPTION THAT HE GAVE NAME OF

A PERSON IDENTICAL WITH CG SIX FIVE TWO NINE DASH C AS PERSON WHO

WOULD BEST KNOW ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN. ' CG SIX FIVE TWO NINE DASH

S HAS BEEN INTERVIEWED PREVIOUSLY RE ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN AND

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS THIS REGAPD.

THIS INFORMANT HAS FURNISHED INFO ON ROSSEN, HIS THEATER BUSINESS

IN CHICAGO AND MIS ACTIVITIES AS CHAIRMAN OF FPCC IN CHICAGO. (U)

NO FURTHER INQUIRY WILL BE CONDUCTED AT THIS TIME RE ALLEGA-

TION AS REPORTED BY REILLY.(U)

ENDV ACK AND HOLD

WA 4-36 AM OK FBI WA JS

DL

3-34 AM CST OK FBI DL HOLDING

H.8.0 16

CONFIDENTIA

DocId: 32125691 Page 3

---

