# docid-32572452

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVE

JiNT

Memorandum

TO

C. A. Evans

DATE:

8/14/61

FROM

T. J. McAndrews

Tolson -

-Belmont _

Mohr -

Callahai

•Conrad

DeLoach !

Evans

Malone _

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel —

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

GABRIEL

MANNARINO

SAMUEL MANNARINO

AR

titt

The above individuals are targets

for early prosecu-

tion under the crash program.

hoodlums from the Pittsburgh area.

Departmental attorneys in Miami have requested that the

Bureau interview Joseph R. Merola, a top jewel thiefe and hoodlum

currently residing in Mam asta source of information concerning

the Mannarinos.

attorneys have indicated there is

a possibility that Merola is willing to tell what he knows con-

cerning the Mannarinos.

We have

• talked to Merola on several

occasions in the past.

While he has not been cooperative, the

Bureau has long recognized that if he were willing he could give

voluminous information not only on the Mannarinos

but on many

other criminal matters.

SAs Forsyth and Portella

of the Pittsburgh Division

have in the past interviewed Merola, who has indicated that he

has confidence in these Agents. Both these Agents are thoroughly

familiar with all the ramifications of the Mannarino cases as

well as other matters about which Merola could be expected to

furnish information.

In order to fully develop this potential,

SAS Forsyth and Portella of Pittsburgh have been instructed to

interview Merola in Miami and develop all information in his

possession.

This interview will not require these Agents to

be

away from Pittsburgh more than two days.

ACTION

2416

UNRECORDIT

COPY FILED

For information and filing.

McA: rap

(5)

copies made

126-18 J56/914

Goes Mers

for review at FBIHQ by

HSCArd Zu: 28 request.

0E-112

XEROX

AUG 17 1961

66 AUG 221981

-2914-1977

• AUG 1'7 1961

NW 45852 DocId: 32572452 Page 1

---

