# docid-32423605

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7/7/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

SSCIA

157-10014-10217

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 07-M-122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SSCIA

ROSELLI, JOHN

Released under the John

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CASTRO, FIDEL, ASSASSINATION

ROSELLI, JOHN

FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION: Declassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/31/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: CC Box 257

v9.1

HH 54653

DooId: 32423605

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date :

Page

08/08/95

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 157-10014-10217

RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS

RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 07-M-122

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM

TO

ROSELLI, JOHN

TITLE

DATE

:00/00/00

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS : ROSELLI, JOHN

FBI

CASTRO, FIDEL, ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/20/99

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS : CC Box 257

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54653 DooId:32423605 Page 2

---

## Page 3

9/124/ 25

ROSSELE DON CORE DES

257-23

1N 54653

Doc1d: 32423605

Page

---

## Page 4

DATE-TIME

TOP SECRET -

56

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

54653

with two or three strangers, he may have asked questions. I

2

didn't want to be asked any questions. That is why I wanted --

Mr. Madigan. With regard to the thousand dollars that you

arranged to be picked up for the bail money, did Mr. Maheu pay

that back to you out of his operating expenses?

Mr. Roselli. No.

Mr. Madigan. That was your own money, and you never got

it back.

Mr. Roselli. I never got it back.

Mr. Madigan. I have no further questions.

The Chairman. If that concludes your questions, Mr.

Madigan, we will turn to the Committee.

First of all, to Senator Hart of Michigan.

Senator Hart of Michigan. Just one question, Mr. Roselli.

Except for the man named O'Connell and the man named

Harvey, did you have conversations or contact with anyone else

representing themselves as government or CIA?

MI. Roselli. No, sir, I didn't. I have seen people, but

I never had conversations with them.

Mr. Wadden. Would you indulge me, Senator?

Senator Hart of Michigan. Yes.

(The witness conferred with Mr. Wadden.)

Mr. Roselli. There were other people at times. There was

a meeting, but nothing discussed, nor was I introduced to them

as government people or -

PocId: 32423605

Page

---

## Page 5

DATE-TIME

TOP SECRET

1009-8

1

2

57

Mr. Wadden. This is a September meeting, Senator, I was

referring

to, where he met O'Connell through Maheu and there

were three other people present, I think.

Senator Hart of Michigan. I am sorry, I did not hear

3

4

5

you.

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

MI. Wadden. This was a meeting on September 18, I believe,

in 1960, in which there were three other people present with

Big Jim O'Connell, but he didn't discuss anything with them,

but, nevertheless --

Mr. Roselli. I didn't know who they were.

The Chairman. That was the meeting that took place at the

Plaza?

Mr. Roselli. The old Plaza.

Senator Hart of Michigan. That is all.

The Chairman. Senator Mondale?

Senator Mondale. When you were asked to help arrange

for the

assassination of Mr. Castro, what was your understanding

of who in the United States government wanted you to do this?

Mr. Roselli. Well, anybody in the United States govern-

ment.

My point was if I am recruited in the Army, and I was in

the Second World War, it is like being recruited in the Army,

and if it comes through from higher authority I don't ask: any

quastions how high it was as long as there were government

DorId: 748399. Paywas satisfied that

Twae doing a date fan

==-

---

