# docid-32297140

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10416

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

97-4474-196, 197

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection

Act

of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

26-13-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/06/1965

4

MIRR, OBA, PLAN, BOMB, CUBAN SUGAR REFINERY,

FUNDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS: Release

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

N9.1

HW 53244

DocId: 32297140

Page

1

---

## Page 2

INFORMATION

REPORT

INFORMATION

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

REPORT

This material contains Information afrecting the National defense of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonage Laws, Title

18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission of revelation of which In any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLID DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

1.

REPORT NO.

CSDB-312/00527-65

Alleged Participation of

SUBJECT

Evelio Alpizar Perez in the

DATE DISTR.

3 March

• 1965

MIRR Air Strike over Cuba on

17 January 1965

NO. PAGES

2

2.

Alleged Plan to Assassinate

FidelYCastro Ruz

REFERENCES

DATE OF

17 January 1965

INFO.

PLACE &

United States,

Miami

DATE ACQ (5 February 1965)

FIELD REPORT NO.

100580940:

UFG-6729

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE, DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

COPY

FILED IN

I.

40

5

4

3

2

1

of information collection.

The group has provided useful reports

Since 1961.

DEL ASSIFIED RY 5668 SL06K

7-31-98

Miami, phone 635-6028,

a former

Cuban Air Force pilot during Fulgencio Batista's régime,

claims that he piloted the plane which made the air

strike over

he Niagara sugar mill in northern Pinar del Rio Province o

17 January 1965.1

The raid was sponsored by the Movimient

Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

Movemen't for Revolutionary

Titir, Cinsurrectional

Recovery, a Cuban exile organization

led by Orlando Bosch Avila.

Alpizar said that Castro spoke the truth when he said that a bomb

had fallen on the house of some peasants in the area.

According

to Alpizar, no bomb fell on the sugar mill itself, but there was

success in setting. fire to some sugar-cane fields in the area.

Erlinda/puig Nuñez,

LATE OF SODIECT ORGAURTIT

wife of Marceling Garcia Mimenez, chief of th

MIRR directorate,

has alleged that there were five young men in

the aircraft during the raid, and that the pilot was a Cuban exile

who had received training in the United States Army.

She claimed

that the other four crew members, all young men who

had recently

joined the MIRR, had also received training at various American

encampments.

One of the crew, who is only 19 years old, injured

is hand while removing the cap from one of the clorox bottles

containing the live phosphorus

used in the raid.

Puig also said that a group of 11 MIRR commandos had infiltrated

into Cuba in preparation for the aly strike but that none of them

had been captured

as was reported.

CONFTDENTIAL

CONTROLLAD DISSEM

Excluded

CEO PI

automatic

STATE

# DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

I&NS #

‹Note: Field distribution indicated by "#"*)

NSA

CUSTOMS # COAST GUARD #

BORDER PATROL #

INFORMATION

REPORT

Autt to Mm

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

3-18-55

OSMACIGAT.

ПАК)

INFORMATION REPORT

payr

5

3

HH 53214

DocId: 32297140

Page 2

---

## Page 3

218-10415

CIA HAS NO ORGECTION TO

REG 41

3 32 рн

• 21 MAR 19 1965

не 16

KP 7-7-

CONFID

INTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM

-2-

LIAISON SEGLION, FBI

CSDB-312/00527-65

According to Marcelino Garcia Jimenez, as of about mid-January

the MIRR was preparing a plan to assassinate Castro.

The person

responsible for accomplishing this plan is a Cuban who is

suffering from a heart disease and whose life expectancy has

therefore been shortened.

Hold Comments

1.

TDCSDB-315/00379-65,

dated 3 February 1965, reported that Jack

Wright, an American,

was the pilot of the aircraft which made

the raid on the Niagara sugar mill on 17 January.

Wright was

subsequently killed on 2 February when he attempted to land his

twin-engine Beechcraft at Freeport, Grand Bahamas Island, while.

on the first leg of another air

strike attempt by the MIRR.

The 8 January 1965 edition of the Miami Herald reported that

four anti-Castro commandos were captured while attempting to

infiltrate into Cuba's north coast.

Seven others escaped and

were being pursued by government forces in

the Varadero and

Cardenas zones of Matanzas Province.

CONFID

ENTIAL.

CONTROLLEID

DISSEM

HH 53244

DocId: 32297140 Page 3

---

