# docid-32290808

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

•Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10084

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-496

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/18/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290808

Page 1

322

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 19 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

4-18-62

11-12PM

RAM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731

2P

GUS ALEX,. AKA. gAR. DAILY SUMMARY .

CG SIX. ONE EIGHT SEVEN DASH C ADVISED THAT GUS ALEX CONTROLS THE

LOOP AREA OF CHICAGO AND AS FAR SOUTH AS TWENTY-SECOND STREET IN REGARD

TO GAMBLING ACTIVITIES. HE STATED THAT WORK FOR ALEX IN THIS DIS-

TRICT IS DONE BY LOUIS BRIATTA, WHO OPERATES ALEX-S QUOTE MAIN OFFICE

UNQUOTE, WHERE ALL THE WAGERS ARE CALLED IN. THE INFORMANT SAID THAT

WORKING UNDER BRIATTA FOR ALEX IS AN INDIVIDUAL WHO FREQUENTS THE

CROSSROADS RESTAURANT AND WHOM HE KNOWS ONLY AS QUOTE MOUSEY UNQUOTE.

INVESTIGATION HAS DISCLOSED THAT THE TRUE IDENTITY OF QUOTE MOUSEY

INQUOTE IS NICHOLAS GARAMONEL-SOR RECT: 91-3182-496

WILLIAM FISHMAN, CROSSROADS RESTAURANT, ADVISED THAT HE IS ACQ-

UAINTED WITH GUS ALEX AND RALPH PIERCE BUT KNOWS NOTHING CONCERNING

THEIR ACTIVITIES. HE STATED THAT QUOTE MOUSEY UNQUOTE SURELY FREQUENTS

END PAGE ONE

APR

126

251962

DocId: 32290808 Page 2

---

