# docid-32126982

## Page 1

Released under the John Fm Kennedy Assassination Becards Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

HOLCAN RACE 4119-2012

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10029-10319

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 105-3702-297

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 02/19/1964

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-2278

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/17/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32126982

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

inder the 'John't.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

CONG

ENTIAL

DECLASSIFIGATION AND/OR,

F

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION 25193

IN THIS DOCUMENT.JBH 3

Date:

2/19/64

SEC

9803 226/1580 429193

e in plain text of toted by_

-20.

Exempt fron GDS, Categor?

IRVI

212-7.

Via

CABLE

PRIORITY

810.08 1

NO.: 384

BY:

Priority or Method of Massin ficatto:

390

BUFILE ONE ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TWO FIVE FIVE FIVE. CLASSIFIED

IDEGLASSIFY ONG

QADR

LBE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASE R DASH CUBA.

56.95

REBUCAB FEBRUARY ONE EIGHT LAST AND MYCAB SAME DATE. U

FOLLOWING IS DAILY SUMMARY:

eelasgih

RE ALLEGATIONS OF PEDRO GUTIERREZ VALENCIA. CIA HERE TODAY

DVISED REVIEWED RESULTS PHOTO SURVEILLANCE AT CUBAN EMBASSY FOR

PERIOD SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER LAST WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON DATES

SEPTEMBER THREE ZERO TO OCTOBER FOUR, COMPARING PHOFOGRAPH OF

GUTIERREZ WITH PHOTOS OF PERSONS VISITING CUBAN ENRASSY DERING

PERIOD DESCRIBED. CIA UNABLE TO IDENTIFY GUTIERREZ AS VISITING

CUBAN EMBASSY DURING THAT PERIOD AND CIA OFFICIAL. YOICED BELIEF

THAT GUTIERREZ WOULD HAVE CERTAINLY BEEN PHOTOGRAPEXD IP HE HAD IN

TED

96

FACT EXITED CUBAN EMBASSY ON OCTOBER ONE LAST BATES CO

CIA ALSO TODAY MADE AVAILABLE THREE PHOTOGRAPHS OF UNSDAN CATA

POSSIBLE AMERICAN FLOWN TO DALLAS ON NOVEMBER TWO THREE LAST EX

SA ELDON D. RUDD AS WELL AS THO ZERO PHOTOS OF POSSERLE ANERICANS

PHOTOGRAPHED AT CUBAN EMBASSY ERRE DURING SEE NEED TEN DOTE

LAST FOR EXHIBIT TO GUTIERREZ.

105-20858

CIA INFORMED PERSONNEL ON PLANT AT CUBAN EMBASSY BRAX

TO IDENTIFY DINA RENAULT AUTOMOBILE WHICH ACCORDING TO CUTTE

105-3702

*389-

915

CDA: plb

Special Agent in Charge

ECRET 1020PAM

Per

COM

TAL

DocId: 32126982 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note P6 (ReDATE 3-Sf1-14-2017

CONTRENTIAL

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

Via

-—

Ptiority or Method of Mailing)

PAGE

FOUR

_(105-3702

TODAY HE EXPECTS TO COMPLETE OBTAINING OF MEXICAN TOURIST CARDS ON

WHICH FM DASH ONE ONE BASED NO LATER THAN TOMORROW. LETTERHEAD

MEMO INCORPORATING INFORMATION CONTAINED IN TOURIST CARDS WILL BE

SUBMITTED IMMEDIATELY THEREAFTER AND APPROPRIATE LEADS WILL BE SET

FORTH FOR DOMESTIC OFFICES. &

RE PHOTOGRAPHS OF SILVER COLORED. BRACELET FURNISHED WITH

BUAIRTEL FEBRUARY ONE THREE LAST

EX DASH ONE BICITY AND NEX DASHE

NINE RELIABLE, ADVISED TODAY THAT COMPLETE CHECK OF

MERCHANDISE IN: TOURIST DASH TYPE STORE OF CHARLES SMALL HERE UNDER

APPROPRIATE PRETEXT FAILED TO REVEAL THAT HE SELLS ANY TYPE OF

JAPANESE MERCHANDISE, INCLUDING BRACELET: IN PHOTOGRAPHS. SOURCES

ALSO RECONFIRM THAT SMALL DOES NOT SELL POST CARDS IN HIS STORE C

SOURCES ALSO CHECKED OUT. FOUR PRINCIPAL OUTLETS HANDLING

QUALITY JAPANESE JEWELRY AND FOUND NONE SELL BRACELETS LIKE ONE IN

PHOTOS. THEY POINT OUT THAT IF THIS IS JUNK TYPE JEWELRY IT MIGHT

BE PURCHASED IN ANY ONE OF. NUMEROUS STORES IN MEXICO CITY OR BORDER

AREA AT NUEVO LAREDO. *

SINCE IT APPEARS THAT BRACELET AND POST CARDS WERE NOT

PURCHASED AT SMALL'S

STORE, NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION. BEING CONDUCTED

ALONG THIS LINE

Approved:

SECRET

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

_M

Per CONSTANTIAL:

DocId: 32126982

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote#6 (ReDAPEl$-91-14-2017

CONTIO

EN MAL

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

yot Method of Mailing)

--

_PAGE_FIVE _ (205-3702)

MEX DASH ONE EIGHT AND MEX DASH ONE NINE ARE. CONCENTRATING (E

ON OBTAINING ALL AVAILABLE INFORMATION FROM MEMBERS OF AMERICAN

COMMUNIST GROUP IN MEXICO WHICH WOULD TEND TO INDICATE OSWALD

VISKTED SMALL'S STORE. (4 > (U)

ANOTHER SUMMARY WILL BE SUBMITTED TOMORROW.

SENTE

Approved:

- Sent _

Special Agent in Charge

_ Per FOR ENTIA:

DocId: 32126982

Page 4

---

