# docid-32301064

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10399

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-164

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-28-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/18/1965

•PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, ALLEGED, BOMBING RAID, INFILTRATION,

CUBA, SUGAR MILLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32301064

Page

1

---

## Page 2

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTiGA LES

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTIO!

JAN 18 1965

SECRET

FBI MIAMI

500 PM EST URGENT 1-18-65 SHR

TO DIRECTOR 97-4474

FROM MIAMI 105-2855 /P/ 3P

leisurces

Classified by

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

Declassity en

DECLASO CATION AND/OR,

K774

FELLAS

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

. BiATION

2.2997

RE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA RAREN MIRR

SARNEY, INTERNAL SECURITY DUEN CUBA NSTRALTTY SATE SOAKSE

он ..

519-97

2 (JEK).:

RE MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DATED JAN.,

FOURTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY

FIVE.

ALK INTONERALULUATE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT MIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

ON JAN., EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, THE QUEFE MIAMI HERALD

UNONGEE CARRIED AN ASSOCIATED PRESS RELEASE CONTAINING THE FOLLOWING/

INFORMATION:

MIRR CLAIMED TO HAVE CONDUCTED A BOMBING RAID AGAINST CUBA ON

JAN., SEVENTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY. FIVE, MIRR CLAIMED THAI SUGAR CANE

FIELDS, INCLUDING THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL IN PINAR DEL RIO PROVIENCE

WERE BOMBED. HE ALSO CLAIMED THAT BETWEEN JAN., THREE AND FIVE, NINE-

TEEN SIXTY FIVE THE MIRR BOAT TOOK INFILTRATORS TO CUBA AND WAS

INTENTIONALLY SUNK ON JAN. SIX, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE TO PREVENT CAPTURE

BY CASTRO FORCES.

END PAGE ONE

PEST

97-4474=164

14 JAN 26 1965

31

FEB 2

1965

SEX! REVERSE

SIDE

CLAS SIRICATION

ACTION

54027

DocId: 32301064 Page

co: dullum

SECRET

---

## Page 3

REVIEWED

FASK FORCE

'SEORET

ON 1/23/97 dal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

PASБ

TWO

TOTAL DENIAL

AMM SIX THREE NINE BASH S WHO IS IN CONTACT WITHTORLANDO BOSCH

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR, ADVISED THAT IT IS HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAI A BOMBING

RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION SUCH AS THIS WAS CARRIED OUT BY MIRR

INFORMANT SUSPECTS THIS PRESS RELEASE WAS TO STIMULATE MONEY CONTRIBU-

TIONS TO MIRR.

MM FOUR NINE TWO

• DASH S ON JAN. EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE

ADVISED THAI MARCELINO GARCIA, A MIRR OFFICIAL, ON JAN. SEVENTEEN,

NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, GAVE THE ABOVE PRESS RELEASE TO MIAMI RADIO STATION

WMET • GARCIA CLAIMED THE RAIDING PLANE RETURNED TO ITS BASE IN

THE CARRIBEAN. GARCIA INVITED STATION WMET TO ATTEND A PRESS CONFEREN&

ON THIS MATTER SCHEDULED IN MIAMI FOR FOUR PM. TODAY. INFORMANT

STATED IT IS HIGHLY UNLIELY ANY RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION SUCH AS

THIS TOOK PLACE AND THE PRESS RELEASE IS A GUISE TO COLLECT MONEY.

U.S. CUSTOMS ON JAN. EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXIY FIVE, STATED MIRR

HAS NO INFILTRATION POTENTIAL, HAS NO BOATS, AND IS NOT TRUTHFULLY

INTERESTED IN INFILTRATION•

_CIA, STATE DEPT., AND INS, MIAMI, ADVISED THAT THERE IS NO

CONIFRMING INFORMATION THAT SUCH A RAID TOOK PLACE OR ANY INFILTRATION

MISSION WAS ATTEMPTED

RADIO HAVANA, AS YET HAS NOT CONFIRMED OR

DENIED THE ALLEGED RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION.

END PAGE TWO

CIA MUFO/ (BR MA) REMARIS

FiR 12/20/906972.

q803 regel Ass: 326/9126692

SECRET

(a)

HH 54027 DocId:32301064 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PEL WASH DO

FBI MIAMI

500 PM EST URGENT 1-18-65 SHR

• TO DIRECTOR 97-4474

FROM MIAMI 105-2855 P/ 3P

RELE:

Declassi

ос їй

RE NOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA PAREN MIRR

END PAREN, INTERNAL SECURITY DASH CUBA; NEUTRALITY MATTERS

DECLASSIFIED BY 5468 SeRKSR

RE MIAMI AIRTEL TO BUREAU DATED JANS, 19URTZEN, CENTREN SETTY

FIVE.

ON JAN., EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, THE QUOTE MIAMI HERALD

UNQUOTE CARRIED AN ASSOCIATED PRESS RELEASE CONTAINING THE FOLLOWING

INFORMATIONE

MIRR CLAIMED TO HAVE CONDUCTED A BOMBING RAID AGAINST CUBA ON

JANA, SEVENTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, MIRR CLAIMED THAI SUGAR CANE

FIELDS, INGLUDING THE NIAGARA SUGAR MILL IN PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE

WERE BOBBED. HE ALSO CLAIMED THAI BETWEEN JANO, THREE AND FIVE, NINE-

TEEN SIXTY FIVE THE MIRR BOAT TOOK INFILIRATORS TO CUBA AND WAS

INTENTIONALLY SUNK ON JAN. SIX, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE IO PREVENT CAPTURE

BY CASTRO FORCES.

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATTON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEFT WHERD

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

HH

54027

DocId: 32301064

Page 4

ois

SE

•Bal

IFICATION

---

## Page 5

SECRE

uses

REVIEWED. BY EGUFK TASK FORCE

ON

7/23/97 dad

LE RELEASE IN FULL

[

PAGE TWO

RELEASE IN PART

CUMM SIX THREE NINE DASH S WHO IS IN CONTACT GITH ORLANDO BOSCH

TOTAL DENIAL

AVILA, HEAD OF MIRR,] ADVISED THAI IT IS HIGHLY UNLIKELY THAI A BONBING

RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION SUCH AS THIS WAS CARRIED OUT BY MIRR

INFORMANT SUSPECTS THIS PRESS RELEASE WAS TO STIMULATE MONEY CONTRIBU-

TIONS TO MIRR.

MM FOUR NINE TWO DASHS ON JAN. EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE

ADVISED THAI MARCELINO GARCIA, A MIRR OFFICIAL, ON JAN. SEVENTEEN,

NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, GAVE THE ABOVE PRESS RELEASE TO MIAMI RADIO STATION

WMET. GARCIA CLAIMED THE RAIDING PLANE RETURNED TO ITS BASE IN

THE CARRIBEAN• GARCIA INVITED STATION WMET TO ATTEND A PRESS CONFEREN&

ON THIS MATTER SCHEDULED IN MIAMI FOR FOUR PM. TODAY. INFORMANT

STATED IT IS HIGHLY UNLIELY ANY RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION SUCH AS

THIS TOOK PLAGE AND THE PRESS RELEASE IS A GUISE TO COLLECT MONEY.

U.So CUSTOMS ON JAN, EIGHTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY FIVE, STATED MIRR

HAS NO INFILTRATION POTENTIAL, HAS NO BOATS, AND IS NOT TRUTHFULLY

INTERESTED IN INFILTRATION.

[CIA, STATE DEPT., AND INS, MIAMI, ADVISED THAT THERE IS NO

CONIFRMING INFORMATION THAT SUCH A RAID TOOK PLACE OR ANY INFILTRATION

MISSION WAS ATTEMPTED.

RADIO HAVANA, AS YET MAS NOT CONFIRMED OR E 11

DENIED THE ALLEGED RAID OR INFILTRATION MISSION®

END PAGE TWO •

:5-1971

HH 54027 DocId: 32301064 Page 5

---

