# docid-32332608

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21U7 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90103-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER.:

92-2940-390

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1962

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332608

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatioh Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 1674-7948-601

¿ OPTIONAL'TORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVEKNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (BufIle 92-2940 )

JUNE

DATE:: 12/31/62

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

AMOKS

EXCEPT WASRE

RE: Title SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, aka

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Passi

Declassify on:

DAD

Field Office

86

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Microphone) Microphone (MUTT

installation)

1. "Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Com

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.)

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Company

I2 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa:

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh FBI Office, 450 Union Trust Building, Fifth

* Avenue and Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4.

Dates of Initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization: 1/26/61

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

No other installations

CLASSIFIED BY 5668. 500/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. (UX6)

07K\ 3110/98

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

(There is no tesur involved in this installation.)

a. Is a trunk line utilizedi ou mence EX 104

b., Is the surveillance on a switchboard REd 67

93= 2942=

39.0

Is the surveillance onia fublic coi

-operated telephoner i

1963

Bureau

ARENED.

Pittsburgh'

RAV/Pjw

(2)

gistere

1a.1]

1.6

1963

SECRET

DocId: 32332608 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hover.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-226-Sub 2

SECRED

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8. Is the installation part of'

a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

where pertinent.

10.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relative to the North

Star Cement BLock Company.

12.

Has security factor changed since installation!

No change.

13. 1ã5 to guest lor the durrellence ly dutside agendy leave nama, tatia and

No requests made.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

None (costs included in office rental)

were activated on 6/6/62%

6 180-5* was activated on 8/23/62.

-2-

SECRET

DocId: 32332608 Page 3

---

