# docid-32578797

## Page 1

SECRET

Airtel

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

I ONCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Nasca

3/19/64

CIA LAS NO PRUTION TO

:: AND/OR,

RELE

IN THIS LUUUMENTAS SANITIZEL

GMBZ2897 FK

Classified by SPR BrA/GCL

Declassify on: OADR */2/85

5p6 me mide 572-84

TO:

SAC, New Yorks (105-41643)

From:

I HO SEX 0004180)

DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDO)

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

93

ReBuairtel to Miami 3/11/64, copy of which was

furnished

New York.

Attached is copy of Miami teletype 3/17/64.

MAILED 30

MAR $ 9 1964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

• Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

COMM-FBI

Office on 3/23/64 where he would be made available for

interview by New York Office Agents. " New Yor. interview

reBualrtelK Be certain to pin hin down to spectics.

Suairtel with letterhead memorandum attached unless urgency

of situation demands more expeditious handling.

Enclosure

• Miami (97-328)

koog

(N: 813

REVERSE

IDI

NOR

CLASS VICATION

ACTION

NOTE:

MDC is anti-Castro organization in Miami. XCIA furnished

information indicating MDC in first week in March was reportedly

making final preparationS to sink merchant vessel in Cuban port.

Mission allegedly scheduled to take place in approximately three

weeks.

Reportedly two small boats sailing from North Coast

of Jamaica are to be used.

ReBuairtel to Miami instructed

Miami; to determine from CIA locally identity and availability

of its

source,

CIA,

Miami, advised matter did not originate 3)

4)

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TWO

MAR?

MAIL, ROOM

1964

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

HH

45872

DooId: 32578797

Page 1

---

## Page 2

HERE

EXCEPT

INFORMATION CONTAZNED

MRIED

WN

1157

CIA HAS

NO

OBJECTION

TO

DECLASSITK

ATION AND/OR

RELEASE 0

TAUH

ORMATI

IN THIS DOCUM

GMB/28/9;

AIRGRAM

4-17-631

DECODED

COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

I CABLEGRAM®

• RADIO

xX TELETYPE

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

824,5 PM URGENT 3-17-64 RW

DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 172145

5112-94

Clas

Classheu by

Declassify on DADR $/2/83

NestRALitY

MIAMI

FILE 97-398 bettissily on: CAl

Internal Security

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO (MDC) ,) AS CUBA, At.

REBUAIRTEL MARCH 11, 1964, CONCERNINGÉCIA MEMO DATED

MARCH 4, 1964 CAPTIONED "PLANS OF THE MDC TO SINK MERCHANT

VESSEL LOADING OR UNLOADING OIL IN A CUBAN PORT. " SANCAO(U)

ON MARCH 13, 1964, CIA U. S. CUSTOMS, U. So COAST GUARD

AND

INS CONTACTED. CIA HAS NO INTEREST IN THIS ALLEGED

OPERATION & CUSTOMS AND INS NEITHER PLAN NOR HAVE TAKEN ANY E

ACTION.

COAST GUARD WILL ALERT THEIR PATROLS TO ANY, BOATS

ASSOCIATED WITH LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA.

*ON MARCH 17, 1964, CIA ADVISED THE INFO REPORTED BY CIA

IN THIS MATTER DID NOT ORIGINATE WITH MIAMI STATION OF CIA STARLI

BUREAU REQUESTED TO CHECK WITH CIA HEADQUARTERS, WASHINGTON,

Do Co FOR IDENTITY AND AVAILABILITY OF CIA SOURCE FOR

INTERVIEW.

*EMM 635-S AND MM 639-SXPOSSÉSS NO INFO RE INSTANT MATTER.

MIAMI ATTEMPTING LOCATE AND INTERVIEW LAUREANO BATISTA

FALLA, PURSUANT BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS.

RECEIVED: 9:04 PM HL

Immigration and Naturalization Service

REC- 105

C20

ON

197

0: 000)

1-/MA

3/15831:1

97-41093

MAI 20.04

SENTERSEA

SIDED DR?

CLASEAFICAXIONI

AT PONY

VIAL

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45872 DocId: 32578797 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

_ AIRGRAM

JAIVES

DECODED COPY

CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

xx TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Lans

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

8645 PM URGENT 3-17=64 RW

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 172145

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IFIED

HEROXI

EXCEPT

OTHE

MIAMI FILE 97-328.

NOVIMIENTO DENOGRATA CRISTIANO (MDG), IS = CUBA, MM.

REBUAIRTEL MARCH 11g 1964, CONCERNINGLCIA MEMO DATED

MARCH 40 1964 CAPTIONED "PLANS OF THE MDC TO SINK MERCHANT

VESSEL LOADING OR UNLOADING OIL IN A CUBAN PORT, "345)CE)

ON MARCH 13, 1964, CIÁ U. S. CUSTOMS, U. S. COAST GUARD

AND INS CONTACTED. &CIA HAS NO INTEREST IN THIS ALLEGED

OPERATION CUSTOMS AND INS NEITHER PLAN NOR HAVE TAKEN ANY

SAIL

ACTION.

COAST GUARD WILL ALERT THEIR PATROLS TO ANY BOATS

ASSOCIATED WITH LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA.

SON MARCH 17O 1964, CIA ADVISED THE INFO REPORTED BY CLA

IN THIS MATTER DID NOT ORIGINATE WITH MIAMI STATION OF CIA

BUREAU REQUESTED TO CHECK WITH CIA HEADQUARTERS WASHINGTON,

Do C FOR IDENTITY AND AVAILABILITY OF CIA SOURCE FOR

INTERVIEW:

EMN 635S AND MN 639-S

SSESS NO INFO RE INSTANT MATTER

MIAMI ATTEMPTING LOCATE AND INTERVIEW LAUREANO BATISTA

FALLA PURSUANT BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS. *

RECEIVED: 9:04 PM: HL

,94

Classife

Declassi

0SC

FIEO

820/14)

Multint Sources BrAGC

Declassity on:

0/2/35 NADA

БОТЛА + 211326

APPEAT,

CIVI

E.0.#

DATE

(5-1) CH

BEE 11

INITIAISGCL

VCECIA HAO NO ORLECTION TO

DECLASS

•CE ON AND/OR,

¿F CA INFORMATI

A 2EN THIS DOCUMENT, GAS 4/2

anness

aFk!

BECIO

+ 601

ANTAL

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to'be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems:

NW 45872 DocId: 32578797 Page 3

---

