# docid-32297691

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10467

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-82, 83

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/20/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOP, EMP, RES, DESCR, WHEREABOUTS, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

DooId: 32297691

Page

1

12

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-30067)

DATB:

2/18/59

gon

SUBJECT:

doll

SAC, PORTLAND (100-9724)

JOHN

PITTMAN

SM - C

00: San Francisco

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN 1S UNCLASSIFIt

ATE 10-6-04 3458 Mac Mac

Re San Francisco letter dated 1/20/59.

R. C. HENAIRE, business agent, Local number 58,

Typographical Union, 110 Loyalty Building, advised SA

FRANCIS J. SMITH, 1/2959, that all linotype operators in

the city of Portland and

surrounding areas who are union

members are members of Local 50. He advised that subject's

name

was not included in his file as a union member and

further that he had never heard of subject. He advised

that there are a large number of one or two men operating

private shops that are not unionized. He advised that to

his knowledge there are only a limited number of negroes

engaged in the linotype business in Portland and that he

could not recall di any negro who was a member of the

union.

PD 426-S, colored, who is well acquainted with

the negro element in Portland advised on 1/28/59, that

subject was unknown to them.

The records. of the Portland Retail Credit

Bureau, the Portland Police Department and the Multnomah

County Sheriff's Office were checked on 2/6/59, with

negative results.

RUC •

Bureau

1

San Francisco (100-1465)

Portland

FJS: emig Se 15 52 6W.29

(4)

IBAEBZIAE CONLEC.

BEC D - EBT

REC- 15

100-30062-83

3 FEB 24 1959

EX-102

SUB CONVIROL

HH 53130-DoeId: 32297691

Pate -2

---

## Page 3

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Mer mandum • UNITED

PATES GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-30067)

DATE:

1/20/59

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (100-1465)

SUBJECT:

JOHN PITTMAN

SM - C

00:

San Francisco

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIMIE

DATE 10-6-74 BYS P8-Macede

Rerep SA WILBERT H. KEHE dated 11/26/58 at San Francisco,

copy to Los Angeles.

Subject, an SI subject in the San Francisco Office, was em-

ployed as a writer at the "People's World". (W), a West

Communist newspaper, until September, 1950, at which time his

wife stated that he quit to learn the linotype business "dowr

South. "

SF 1159-S on 1/6/59 advised that he had learned from sub-

ject's wife, MARGE PITTMAN, that subject presently 1s in Portland,

Oregon, where he is learning to be a linotype operator and is

attempting to obtain a union card.

MARGE PITTMAN stated that she

had previously advised informant that subject. was

"down South,"

but inasmuch as she knew informant was beyond

. suspicion she felt

she could reveal to him that JOHN PITTMAN actually is in Portland

and not in the Los Angeles area. MARGE PITTMAN stated

that when

PITTMAN obtains his union card, which will require a year, he

plans to return to San Francisco and obtain employment as a lino-

type operator.

MARGE PITTMAN cautioned informant that PITTMAN's whereabouts

1s a big secret, because they did not want the FBI to investigate

him and prevent him from obtaining union membership.

A description of subject JOHN PITTMAN is as follows:

male; Race, Negro; Age, 53 (born Atlanta, Ga., 9/17/05); 5' 8"

150 lb.; build medium;

hair reddish brown; eyes hazel; complex

light brown.

The Los Angeles Office is requested to discontinue its efforts

to locate subject in the Los Angeles area pending results from the

Investigation in tho portlie

creetly to ascertain subject's employment and residence through

The Portland Orfice, at Portland, Oregdn- 3001782

1, will attempt

reliable sources and notify the Bureau and San Francisco. As

noted above, great care must be exercised in ascertaining subjeet

present employment and residence, inasmuch as it is not known

whether subject's wife has revealed his whereabouts to any other

than informant.

13 JAN 26 1959

2 - Portland (REG)

3 - San Francisco

7H 53130 DocIl: 32297691

Page 3

WHK: hko #8 (9)

!

---

