# docid-32346743

## Page 1

• Date: 12/08/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

104-10063-10191

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

: FBI,

: WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

: CABLE RE DEMONSTRATION PROTESTING U.S. INTERVENTION IN

VIETNAM

DATE

: 07/30/1968

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS : VIETNAM

ANTI-WAR DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CONFIDENTIAL

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : 07/13: E2: 1993.07.13.14:21:09:120520 : FBI DENIED

IN FULL - 2/16/94; ARRB

DENIED IN FULL 3/14/97.

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

1104-10063-10191

HH 50529

DooId: 32346743

Page

1

---

## Page 2

ANSECOM

SCU

I88U60

SLOTTIO

CONFIDENTIAL a 15

When Fillod inj 2

MELASALAMCATITA

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIDITED

INDENS

ELABRITY TO PILE PrON

PEA

Sop :136

C/CI-3 [ua com

X'ЧЕЕ ТО НЬЙ 4О оні!

FILE RID DRET, TO :

INTO

fiber

GRANGH

Espo s/SecuR -4,

2:5 0PM

17-30-68

MSE

PRIORITY

TO THE WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

002

ATTENTION: MRS. MILDRED STEGALL

ATTENTION: SECRET SERVICE, PID

TO DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO DEPARIMENT OF THE STATE 0D4

TO DEPARTMENT. OF THE ARMY

002

TO DEPARIMENI OF THE AIR FORCE

D02

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

002

002

SDOT SECUR

1925

(CONFIDENTIAL)

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES INTERVENTION

IN VIETNAM.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTICH TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

30. JuL 68 N606733

ANTIWAR AND ANTIDRAFT AGITATION IS CONTINUING • THERE

IS SET OUT BELOW THE HIGHLIGHTS OF CURRENT AND PLANNED

ACTIVITY®

781 chroni

Dem, Nail Com

TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS REPRESENTING VETERANS FOR PEACE, A

CONFIDENTIAL:

7136

WH: 50529 DocId:32316743

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LASSIFISO MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

IN_ 100173 PAGE 2

GROUP WHICH HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN PROTESTING THE WAR IN VIETNAM,

DEMONSTRATED IN THE VICINITY OF THE BILIMORE HOTEL,

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, ON JULY IWENT YENINE LAST DURING

VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY'S APPEARANCE AT THE HOTEL. THE

TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED AMERICAN FLAGS AND PLACARDS

PROTESTING THE WAR.

THE PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY, WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO

SUPPORT "PEACE" CANDIDATES, PLANS TO DEMONSTRATE AGAINST THE

VICE PRESIDENI AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, TODAY. THE

DEMONSTRATORS HAVE AGREED THAT THEY WILL NOT ENTER THE

COMMONWEALTK CLUB WHERE THE VICE PRESIDENT WILL SPEAK. A

SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP ESTIMATED THAT THERE WILL BE TWO

THOUSAND TO FIVE THOUSAND DEMONSTRATORS AND THAT PROBABLY

SOME MEMBERS OF THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY, A MILITANT BLACK

NATIONALIST GROUP, WILL TAKE PART IN THE DEMONSTRATION.

THE REVEREND MATTHEW AUDIBERT, CHAPLAIN, ST. FRANCIS

COLLEGE, BIDDEFORD, MAINE, LED NINE INDIVIDUALS IN A DEMON

STRATION AT THE ARMED FORCES EXAMINING AND ENTRANCE SIATION,

PORTLAND, MAINE, ON JULY TWENTY#NINE LAST. THE DEMONSTRATORS

DISTRIBUTED ANTIDRAFT LITERATURE AND ONE MEMBER SOLD COPIES

OF THE "MANUAL FOR DRAFT AGE IMMIGRANTS TO CANADA:

THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, A CIVIL

RIGHTS GROUP, PLANS DEMONSTRATIONS AT THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL

CONVENTION, MIAMI, FLORIDA. REPORTEDLY, A GROUP KNOWN AS THE

CONEDENTIAL

50.729

_Dold: 3234

---

## Page 4

LED MESSAGE

I Cr NFIDENTIAL IN LOb'- PAGE 3

PAGE TREE CONFIDENTIAL

"RANGERS," NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED, HAS BEEN GIVEN IWELVE

THOUSAND DOLLARS BY THE CONFERENCE TO ACT AS SECURITY

GUARDS FOR THE REVEREND RALPH D. ABERNATHY, THE PRESIDENI

OF THE CONFERENCE, AT MIAMI,

DURING A RECENT SPEECH AT WASHINGION, D.CO= ROBERT GREENBLATT,

AN OFFICIAL OF THE NATIONAL MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE IO END

THE WAR IN VIETNAM; THE MEMBERSHIP OF WHICH INCLUDES MEMBERS

OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY, STATED THAT IHERE WILL BE DEMONG

STRATIONS AT THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC CONVENI ION AT CHICAGO

ILLINOIS, AND THAT THERE WILL BE DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITY. HE

SAID THAT THE CAMPAIGN EFFORTS OF VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY

MUST BE REPELLED.

GP- i

CONFIDENTIAL

14 50529

DocId: 32346713 Page 4.

---

## Page 5

Date: 12/08/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

--—→

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

104-10063-10191

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: FBI,

DIRECTOR

TO : WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

TITLE : CABLE RE DEMONSTRATION

PROTESTING U.S. INTERVENTION IN

VIETNAM

DATE: 07/30/1968

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : VIETNAM

ANTI-WAR DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

CROSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST RMES: 074109F2: 1993.07.13.14:24:09:120520 : FBI DENIED

IN FULL - 2/16/94; ARRB DENIED IN FULL 3/14/97.

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

:104-10063-10191

74 50529

DooId: 32346743

Page 5

---

## Page 6

ANGECORA

ISSURO

iSEM &Y

Tion

ATta

PER

200 :1360

C/C= -3 Inacam

SLOTTEO

CO VEIDENTIAL

GHOUPI

When Fillod inj

MCLISRNITCATIM

REPRODUCTION OF FHIS COPY PROHIDITED

INDEXI DO VES I NOi

X-ЧЕР ТО ЧЬЕ АО..

PILS RID DRET, TO

GRANCHE

10

DESTAOY D SIC

2:5 0PM

17-38-68

MSE

PRIORITY

TO THE WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM

002

ATTENTION:

MRS. MILDRED STEGALL

ATTENTION: SECRET SERVICE, PID

TO DIRECIOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

TO DEPARTMENT: OF THE STATE 004

IO DEPARTMENT.OF THE ARMY

0 02

TO DEPARTMENI OF THE AIR FORCE

D 02

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

0D2

0 02

SOOT SECUR

1925

(CONFIDENTIAL)

DEMONSTRATIONS PROTESTING UNITED STATES INTERVENTION

IN VIETNAM.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

30 JU 68 IN 60673

ANTIWAR AND ANTIDRAFT AGITATION IS CONTINUING.

THERE

IS SET OUT BELOW THE HIGHLIGHIS OF CURRENT AND PLANNED

ACTIVITY®

781 chioi

anti

Dim. Nore Cons

TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS REPRESENTING VETERANS FOR PEACE, A

CONFIDENTIAL

1136

NH 50529 DocId: 32346743 Page 6

---

## Page 7

LASSIFISO MESSAGE CONFIDENTIAL

IN-

10l073

_PAGE_

GROUP WHICH HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN PROTESTING THE WAR IN VIETNAM,

DEMONSTRATED IN THE VICINITY OF THE BILIMORE HOTEL,

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, ON JULY TWENT YENINE LAST DURING

VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY'S APPEARANCE AT THE HOTEL® THE

TWENTY DEMONSTRATORS CARRIED AMERICAN FLAGS AND PLACARDS

PROTESTING THE WAR.

THE PEACE AND FREEDOM PARTY, WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO

SUPPORI "PEACE" CANDIDATES, PLANS TO DEMONSTRATE AGAINST THE

VICE PRESIDENI AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, TODAY. THE

DEMONSIRATORS HAVE AGREED THAT THEY WILL' NOT ENTER THE

COMMONWEALTH CLUB WHERE THE VICE PRESIDENT WILL SPEAK. A

SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP ESTIMATED THAT THERE WILL BE TWO

THOUSAND TO FIVE THOUSAND DEMONSTRATORS AND THAT PROBABLY

SOME MEMBERS OF THE BLACK PANTHER PARTY, A MILITANI BLACK

NATIONALIST GROUP, WILL TAKE PART IN THE DEMONSTRATION.

THE REVEREND MATTHEW AUDIBERT, CHAPLAIN, ST. FRANCIS

COLLEGE, BIDDEFORD, MAINE, LED NINE INDIVIDUALS IN A DEMON

STRATION AT THE ARMED FORCES EXAMINING AND ENTRANCE STATION,

PORTLAND, MAINE, ON JULY TWENTY#NINE LAST. THE DEMONSIRAIORS

DISTRIBUTED ANTIDRAFT LITERATURE AND ONE MEMBER SOLD COPIES

OF THE "MANUAL FOR DRAFT AGE IMMIGRANIS TO CANADA.""

THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, A CIVIL

RIGHTS GROUP, PLANS DEMONSTRATIONS AT THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL

CONVENTION, MIAMI, FLORIDA. REPORTEDLY,

A GROUP KNOWN AS THE

CONFIDENTIAL

NH 50529 DocId: 32346743 Page 7

---

## Page 8

150-MESSAGE

Cr VFIDENTIAL

IN 606-7

PAGE THREE CONFIDENTIAL

"RANGERS," NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED, HAS BEEN GIVEN TWELVE

THOUSAND DOLLARS BY THE CONFERENCE TO ACI AS SECURITY

GUARDS FOR THE REVEREND RALPH D• ABERNATHY; THE PRESIDENI

OF THE CONFERENCE, AT MIAMI.

DURING A RECENT SPEECH AT WASHINGION, D.C., ROBERT GREENBLATTY

AN OFFICIAL OF THE NATIONAL MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE TO END

THE WAR IN VIEINAM, THE MEMBERSHIP OF WHICH INCLUDES MEMBERS

OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY, STATED THAI THERE WILL BE DEMON&

STRATIONS AT THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC CONVENIION AT CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS, AND THAI THERE WILL BE DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITY.

HE

SAID THAT THE CAMPAIGN EFFORIS OF VICE PRESIDENT HUMPHREY

MUST BE REPELLED.

GP- 1

CONFIDENHAL

HH 50529

DocId: 32346743 Page 8

---

