# docid-32335976

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90130-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-78976-34

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/23/1963

14

FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ TAMAYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HW 45962 DocId: 32335976

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

MM 105-1891

SECKED

MONTESINO and other persons, in order that the interview

with the subject could be more thorough and detailed. The

subject is an unscrupulous and immoral individual, who

undoubtedly would lie if it benefited him. For this reason,

it is believed Polygraph examination of the subject would

be revealing and worthwhile, and for this reason, the Bureau

will be requested for authorization to Polygraph subject

after FAJARDO is located and interviewed.

RAMIRO SANCHEZ MONTESINO, shortly after SANCHEZ' .

incarceration in Cuba in December, 1962, said he encountered

subject in a supermarket in Miami. At this time, the sub-

ject indicated he was working for CIA. Mr. JOSEPH VIDAL,

CIA, covert, Miami (protect), advised on July 22, 1963,

subject is not working for that agency, and that agency has

no operational interest in him.

* 4)

INFORMANTS

LOCATION

IDENTITY

MM I-I Es CIA, as reflected

in CIA letter to Director

March 22,

1963, classified

Secret. (U

MM T-2 is PSI

OTHER 4

105-1891-111

134-878-Sub A-1.

-C*

-

- COVER PAGE

- SECHET

gi:!

...

NN 45962 DocId: 32335976 Page 2

---

