# docid-32404019

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10330-10031

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

3107 Note) • Case#:NU 53217 Date:

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JOHN F. PEREIRA. CSI

: DAVID G. MARWELL. EXEC. DIR. ARRB

LETTER: ATTACHED IS A MEMORANDUM TO CHAIRMAN TUNHEIM

11/08/1995

SUBJECTS :

STATIONS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/12/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-15: F2:

2000.02.03.11:00:43:327054

--------------

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10031

NH 53217 DocId: 32104019

Page 1

---

## Page 2

.::

CENTER for she STUDY of INTELLIGENCE

8 November 1995

Mr. David G. Marwell

Executive Director

Assassination Records

Review Board

600 E Street, NW

Washington, DC

20530

Dear David:

Attached is a memorandum to Chairman Tunheim from the

Deputy Director for operations, regarding the need to

protect the locations of

specific stations. The memorandum

responas to your suggestion that a statement from a senior

Agency official would be helpful to the ARRB in its review

of documents.

The memorandum distinguishes between stations that the

Agency is willing to acknowledge for specific dates, and

others that

are considered too sensitive to divulge for even

a brief period. As soon as we obtain information on other

stations, this will also be forwarded to you for the Board's

consideration. (U)

The memorandum is intended to complement information

provided to the Board in earlier discussions on the subject

of the sensitivity of station locations.

We welcome the

opportunity to discuss this and other issues with the Board

and your staff. (U)

sincerely,

John Percia

John F. Pereira

Attachment

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENT

Central Inselligence Agency - Washingion, D.C. 20505• (703) 351-2698 Fax (703) 243-8343

HH 53217 DocId: 32404019 Page 2

STERET

---

