# docid-32287394

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10197-10170

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-29-495

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/20/1962

2

CIP, INFORMANTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

V9.1

DocId: 32287394

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act- oF 1992 114 USC-21

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

3/21/62

AIRTEL

DiB

TO: SAC, Mlaw1

(92-515)

tron: director, fat

REC: #9 (6807-90) - 495

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

Re your teletype 3/20/62 relative to information

Parmished by ru 806-PC concerning payofts to local authoritios

•I Dade County, State Attorney's Orfico, Miani Police Deportment,

"state

authorities" and Broward County.

By return airtel, lunish conplete dotails of this

Information.

Also prepare and forward to Buroan letterhead

menorandum suitable for dissemination.

T'olson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans

Malone.

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes

Gandy

CLG: mac

(4)

181

OMAR 291962

MAILED A

MAR 2 1 1962

COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32287394 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 210

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

intr

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

Callahan

JeLoac

Evans

Malone Y

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

L Teletype

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

3-20-62

2-00 PM

EST

SFG

FROM SAC MIAMI

201701

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, MIAMI DIVISION, AR.

ON 19 LAST MM 606-PC ADVISED ELI QUAIN, MIAMI BEACH,

WHO IS REPORTED COLLECTOR OF PAYOFFS FOR LOCAL AUTHORITIES,

ADVISED THERE WAS "NO MORE DEAL." INFORMANT STATES THERE

IS NO MORE PAYOFF BEING COLLECTED FOR SHERIFF THOMAS KELLY,

DADE COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY, OR RICHARD GERSTEIN,

STATE ATTORNEYS OFFICE, MIAMI, FLA., FOR PROTECTION OF BOLITA

AND BOOKMAKING. INFORMANT STATES BILL DORN, WHO HAS COLLECTED

FOR STATE AUTHORITIES, HAS ALSO ADVISED HE CANNOT ACCEPT ANY

MORE MONEY. INFORMANT STATES MAIMI PD MONEY IS STILL BEING

COLLECTED BY TILLMAN "RED" RAINWATER. BOLITA IS STILL BEING

IS ON BEEN METER TO BROMA BURT MEIE ANGE DREATE CREATION

HAS NOW BEEN MOVED TO BROWARD COUNTY WHERE ALL OPERATORS ARE

PAYING $350 A MONTH FOR COUNTY AND STATE PROTECTION. INFORMANT

STATES ABOVE ACTION REPORTEDLY TAKEN IN WIEW OF FEDERAL

GOVERNMENTS PRESSURE ON GAMBLING AND BOOKMAKING IN THIS AREA.

RECEIVED: 2:22 PM

MEL

REC- 39

68-9-29-

495

110 MAR 43 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32287394 Page 3

---

