# docid-32294127

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10403

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-519

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1963

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

PocId: 32294127

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO.. 10

de UNITED, STATES GOY

INMENT

Memoranaum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: October 28, 1963

FROM

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

SUBJECT:

O LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

0, 241

SF: 2550-C-TE advised on October 25, 1963, that

at about 10:45 A.M., October 22, 1963, he was in the office

Of ANGELO MARINO at the California Cheese Company in San

Jose, California.

Present at this time were ANGELO,

SALVATORE and JOE MARINO.

ANGELO said he was very happy

to see Informant because he was just going to send his

brother JOE MARINO to Martinez to give them a

very impor-

tant message.

He stated he had received a tip, the source

of which he did not identify, that the "Feds"

were

going to

search the houses of members

of the organization.

He

recommended that Informant remove any guns he might have

from his house and any other contraband articles

that he

might have stored.

He suggested Informant immediately

return to Martinez and give this information to ALEX

CAMARATA.

ANGELO MARINO also stated that they all had

to be very careful as they were all being followed.

From Informant's conversation with the MARINOS,

he gathered that they were

"all shook up" because of the

publicity and inquiries being made by the F.B.I. and other

Federal

agencies regarding La Cosa Nostra.

Informant thereafter traveled to Martinez,

W

California, where he attempted to contact ALEX CAMARATA.

CAMARATA was not at home at the time so Informant contacted

MRS. ALEX CAMARATA at her cleaning

and tailor shop.

he related that the "Feds" were going to search their homes

she went into a panic and stated in Sicilian that they hac

CCS

REG- 32

.1

Bureau (AM - REG.)

- New York (INFO) (AM - REG.)

6 - San

Francisco

(1

6:92-593)

(1- 137-2571)

.(1

92-508)

92-41)

(1

-

92-179)

•(1 - 92-180)

BCW : PP

(9)

5.

3 NOV 4

EX-117

92-6054-519

3 OCT 30 1963

tell

1963

DocId: 32294127 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hobey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

, p.

SF 92-593

BCW: PP

to hurry and "get it out of my house." She had Informant

drive her to her house, whereupon they found that ALEX had

just arrived, in company with one of his workers, an uniden-

tified colored man.

ALEX and this colored man were in the

house at the time and it appeared that ALEX had just paid

the colored man.'

MRS. CAMARATA immediately shouted to

ALEX in Sicilian that they were going to have their houses

searched and that he should get the "stuff" out of the

house:

ALEX ran

to a back room of the house and brought

out some items which he stuffed into a lunch pail. Infor-

mant identified certain of these items as being at least

two. 38 caliber revolvers and an ammunition-type belt.

These ALEX put into a lunch pail and ran out of the house.

Informant offered

to take these items and throw them off

the bridge, thinking that he could bring them to the San

Francisco Office for examination.

However, ALEX declined,

stating that he was

going to take them to his uncle's place,

JOSEPH VENTIMIGLIA, who

is'an old Italian residing in

Martinez, California.

Informant has been unable to learn the entire

contents of this lunch pail or the ammunition-type belt

but indicated that it might contain ammunition or money.

ALEX CAMARATA, who is the son-in-law of JOHN

MISURACA of New Jersey, previously advised Informant on or

about October 18, 1963, that he, CAMARATA, had been in

contact with the MARINOs of San Jose, California, who told

got san Jose.

him that at some future date they might be called upon to

hide out members of the organization

who were being sought

by the law.

The MARINOs indicated that ALEX and Informant

would be kept advised if their services were needed at any

time in this regard.

- 2%

DocId: 32294127 Page 3

---

