# docid-32296414

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10190

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-875

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/17/1964

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MISUR, 902 SOUTH 8TH STREET, PH, PA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32296414

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017 OPTIONAL FORM NO. "10

MAY 1962 EDITION

3010-100

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATE

*#GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FR

SUBY

Director, FBI

(92-6054)

DATE:

12/17/64

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027 Sub F) (P).

LA COSA NOSTRA

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

JUNE

ReBulet 12/11/64.

As the Bureau is aware, the Philadelphia Divisior

has been keenly alert in an attempt to penetrate the activi-

ties of La Cosa Nostra by obtaining technical coverage at

• 902 South 8th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

the first

At this address there is located a barber shop on

floor, operated by ALFONSE MAIORIELLO.

Immediate-

ly behind the barber shop is located a room which MAIORIELLO

uses as a kitchen.

MAIORIELLO, his wife and daughter reside

on the second floor of this row house type building.

Our investigation of the Philadelphia Family of

La Cosa Nostra reflects that ANGELO BRUNO and the various

leaders of the Philadelphia Family of La Cosa Nostra con-

it the philadel

stantly use this barber shop and rear room as a meeting

place.

Hardly a day goes by that BRUNO does not preside

in the rear room of this barber shop. At this location he

meets with his capodecinas, various La Cosa Nostra members,

and this also serves as a meeting spot with other individuals

in both his legitimate and illegitimate enterprises.

35

Due to the nature and type of neighborhood in-

volved (the barber shop is located in the heart of the

Sicilian section of the Italian neighborhood in South

Philadelphia), the Philadelphia Division has been unable

to gain secure access to this target location.

In the past

JUrEaU - REGISTED NATURE: 3992-6054-875 Enti

.1 - Phila.

JRP: ERG .

(3)

1-6-65%

DooId:32296414 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027 Sub F

consideration was given to obtaining the premises of either

side of the barber shop, which have a common wall with the

barber shop; however, this approach was not successful.

Entry into 902 South 8th Street cannot be made

with complete security.

It is felt, however, by the following described

manner, that misur coverage at this location is feasible at

this time:

The Philadelphia Division, after evaluating all

the àvailable facts and circumstances concerning this matter,

desires to give very serious consideration to an RFMT in-

stallation with respect to this target.

Approximately 300 ft. from this target location

there is located a Roman Catholic convent, grammar school,

church and rectory. This Division enjoys excellent rela-

tionships with the

is granted, contact would be had with him rather than with

the Individual Pastor or Mother at the above-described loca-

tions.

If approved, the Philadelphia Division, complying

with required Bureau specifications concerning the installa-

tion of an RFMT unit would make the necessary survey so as

to locate the RFMT unit in a locked, secure location within

the building occupied by the Roman Catholic nuns teaching

at the adjacent grammar school.

This unit would be secured

in a cabinet and locked and by prior arrangement, no one

would have access to this cabinet. Modifications would be

made for the RFMT unit to serve as a "misur" and not as a

"tisur"

and the coverage would be relayed from the RFMT unit

to the central monitoring plant in the Philadelphia Office

eliminating the need for Special Agents to enter this location

on a regular basis.

If authority is obtained the RFMT unit would be well

within the 1,000 wire feet from the target instrument.

•Previously authorized Bureau surveys in regards

-2 -

DocId:32296414 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027 Sub F

to development of a source at 902 South 8th Street has

developed that ALFONSE MAIORIELLO's telephone in the

rear room of the first floor of 902 South 8th Street is

a 300 series which is needed for a successful RFMT in-

stallation.

The Philadelphia Division enjoys excellent re-

Lations with the telephone company.

As previously ex-

Plained, there are two "multiples

of the telephone of

ALFONSE MAIORIELLO, one such multiple being in a box at

904 South 8th Street Immediately next door to the target

The second multiple is at 801 Washington Avenue,

approximately two blocks from the target area. It is

felt that the Philadelphia Division could have the multiple

from 904 South 8th Street moved to the above-described

parochial institution and also have the multiple on Wash-

or block diagrams of cables in the target area. This will

not be done unless specifically requested to do so by the

Bureau.

•It is pointed out that the request for survey on

the above-described situation is for the development of

intelligence information re La Cosa Nostra.

It is not

felt that any information developed from this source would

jeopardize any future prosecution.

There will be complete

security obtained and there will be no need to trespass if

the RFMT installation is authorized and ultimately installed.

It is

requested that the Bureau grant authority

to pursue a survey and to determine:

1.

If a location can be obtained to install an

RFMT unit in the parochial institution mentioned by contact

with

the Archbishop.

2.

Instruct Philadelphia as to what additional

data would be required of a technical nature to enable the

Laboratory to determine if an RFMT unit can be utilized in

the situation as

explained in this communique.

-3 -

DocId: 32296414 Page 4

---

