# docid-32184175

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10239-10385

RECORD SERIES: DI,

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-43-3924

eleased under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-14-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. LA

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/23/1964

PAGES: 4

_ SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

SEE FBI 62-109060-2981

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/29/1996

, Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932

DooId: 32184175

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 89-75

It is pointed out that CATERINE BLAINE BOND waS

not incerytewed, as her present unereabouts is unknotn.

However, the facts developed thus far reflect that there 1s no

apparent basis for the allegations in Mrs. TRACK's letter,

when interviewed, Mrs.

TRACY attributed el1 derogatory and

violent remarks mode concerning former President Kuwvoy to

CHARLOTTE REGAN and, therefore, no additional investigation

Is being conducted to locate and interview CATHERINE BLAINE

BOND, VACE.

The source who requested her identity not be

divuiged and who fumished information regarding CHArLOTTE

RANDALE, MC ETFRESH, reflected in the attached enclosures,

•Is tA 3436-S, Bufile 200-374664.

It should be noted that

3436-s 1s the daughter of ChARLOTTE RANDAl MC ELFRESH.

?"";

2

5092:

DocId: 32184175

pave 21

---

## Page 3

4/23/64

ADATET

AIR MAIL

TOs

FROMS

ABs

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

S26, I08 ANARLES (89-75)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JORA FIXZAFRAID FRAMEDY

NOVANNER 22, 1963

TEXAS

1AZALLAMOUE - INPORMATION CONCILI

Res BUreau aIrtal to Los Angeles, 4/16/64.

RANDALL KC SINKASE.

a n, captioned AS A CHARLOTTE

Inclased for Dallas are 25 copies or an ingerta

capeloned

"GERTRUDE TRACY, CHARLOTTE RANDALI, MC ELFRESH.

For the Information of the Bureau, GERTRUDE TRAGS

could not turnian any additional specifle information

regarding the allegations usde by her in her letter, When

quent она as о врес ісь.

she sas extremaly vague and evasive

and displayed & hostile attitude. She expressed a strong

dIsLIkS SOT CHARLOTTE REGAN.

It 10 a1s0 noted that MAVIN KAPLAN stated that

GERTRUDE TRACY had expreaned & dislike fOr CHARLOTTE REGAN

to him. He stated thet in his opinion, CHARLOTTS REDAN

1s enotionally and mentally instable.

5o Fureau

6• Lang

1 • 108

(OT SOMALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREN IS UNCLASSIFIED

93 BY2803 ADD GAT

(JFK)

89:13.3924

SEARCHED

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED

APR 2 7 1964

FBI - DALLAS

HW 53932

Do01d:32184175

Page 3

---

## Page 4

IA 89-75

It is pointed out that CATHERINE BLAINE BOND waS

not interviewed,

as her present whereabouts is unknow,

the facts developed thus far reflect that there is no

apparent bassy for the allegations in les, more looter

Kes, TRACY attributed all derogatory and

violent renarks made concerning former President KENEDY to

CHARLOTTE RECAN and, therezore,

no additional investigation

is being conducted to locate and Interview GATHERINS BLAIM

The source who requested her identity not be

divalged and who furnished inforation regarding CHARLOTTE

RANDALE ME SHISH, reflected in the attached enclosures.

1A 3436-S, Burize 100-374064.

I shoute be noted that

3430-S Is the daughter of CHARLOTTE RANDALE VC BEFRESH.

2

IT 53932

DocId: 32184175 Page 4

---

