# docid-32289867

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

'Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10143

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-582

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

07/23/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

- RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, INFT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289867

Page 1

211

---

## Page 2

Reledsed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act or

DATE: 11-14-2017

TУУ2 111-050

tote).

FEDÉRAL BUREAU QI

D: VESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL2 3 1962

MELETY

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad A

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans*

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Rosm

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

7-23=62

• 8-30

PM'

RAM

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/

GUSCALEX, AKAS ARO DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI JOHN MO TRINKA RECENTLY ADVISED HE HAS BEEN UNABLE TO LOCATE

ANY: RECORD OF A BOAT BELONGING TO LOUIS ARGER, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF ALEX,

MOORED IN ANY OF THE CHICAGO HARBORS THIS SEASON EITHER UNDER HIS OWN

NAME OR THE NATIONAL MAINTENANCE CORPORATION AS HE HAD REGISTERED

HI'S BOAT IN PREVIOUS YEARS. PCI SAID ALTHOUGH ALEX AND ARGER WERE

FREQUENTLY TOGETHER IN THE BURNHAM HARBOR AREA IN PREVIOUS YEARS HE HAS

SEEN NEITHER OF THEM THIS YEAR. HE SAID IT IS POSSIBLE THAT ARGER MAY

HAVE OBTAINED MOORING SPACE UNDER ANOTHER NAME OR THAT ERWIN QUOTE RED

UNQUOTE WEINER OF THE CHICAGO PARK DISTRICT MAY HAVE MADE MOORING SPACE

AVAILABLE TO ARGER WITHOUT MAKING ANY RECORD OF SAME. IT IS NOTED THAT

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C HAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED WEINER IS FRIEND-

LY WITH VARIOUS CHICAGO HOODLUMS INCLUDING ALEX AND ARGER. ALEX ARMED

AND

DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

BEC 492-3182-5622

END AND' ACK AND HOLD PLS

JUL 24 1962

• 9-34 PM. OK

FBI WA LVS

320

58 JUL 26 1962|

DocId: 32289867 Page 2

---

