# docid-32305294

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

Released under the John F.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10424

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-312

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

144 USC

Document Information

•PAGES:

PAGES: 101061966

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, ASSOC, TEST, OBA, ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE, LHM

IN 54027 DocId: 32305294

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rav, 5-22-84)

CONPRDENTIAL

FBI

Date: 10/6/66

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

goth

Wants

шка

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

"MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS - CUBA; NM

(00: MIAMI)

Classifed by She BrA/see

Declassity one PADR /50/85

Re Miami airtel 4/22/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are ll copies of a

letterheam memorandum, dated and captioned as above.

ЕХСЕРТ

OTHER

INFORWA

AON CONTAINTA

AOBTSSTFIEU

ARE SHCHN

SE

all Miami; Y. S. Customs, Fly West, NISO, charleston, $-Co,

G2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.,

Ojus, Florida; and

BOSCH's statement to newspapermen after the trial

were overheard by SA ERNEST HARRISON, JR.

It is to be recalled that MM 639-S furnished to

this office the information on which the Sheriff's Office

of Collier County, in cooperation with U. S. Customs,

Miami, was able to effect the

companions in this case.

(x)("rest at BOSCH and his

two

On 10/6/66 MI. STANLEY

SCHACHTER, U. S. Customs,

advised he testified during the trial after Sheriff HENDRY

SCHACHTER of U.

had testified he had received his information from Mr.

Customs.

MI. SCHACHTER said that when

DECLASSIFIED BYS eaTA

ON 31146

LACe? 4479317

(1 - 9- 1700) (BOSCH);

(1 - 134-25&opy to:

GED/dk

(6)

CHA/ StAte/RADIA Customa

hy routing slip

RICAN,

Approved:

SenUNF

NIAM

Per —

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54027 DocId: 32305294

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CON DENTIAL O

MM 105-2855

he testified and was cross examined concerning his source

by the defense counsel, he declined to answer on the

grounds that it was privileged intormation. MY. SCHACHTER

said that Judge SMITH upheld him, and he was not required

to state that he had received this information from the

Mr. SCHACHTER does not know the identity of

It appears that til o39-s has been adequately

protected in this natter. C›U

,...

2

CONFIDANTIAI

HH 54027 DocId: 32305294

Page

---

