# docid-32578782

## Page 1

OPTIONAL -ORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GE

ARNMENT

Memorandum

DATE:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NUT 54027 Date:

08-31-2017

June 20, IV0z

TO

OBJECTION TO

AND/OR,

INFORMATION

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4110)

SAC, MIAMI (97-328) (P)

CIA HAS NO

DECLASSIFICATION

CIA

WENT,

SUBJECT:

MOV IMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO DE CUBA

(Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba - MDC)

IS - CUBA

9.94 5pg

ту оп:

RELEASE

THIS

ReBulet to Miami 6/25/62 re information furnished

IN

by MM 795-S concerning a proposed expedition.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of a letter-

DECLAIMED BY 5468 SU0 ACE

NORMATION

(4) (4)

U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Customs, andyCIAkhave

béen advised locally concerning information contained in

enclosed letterhead memorandum. *CIA advised that agency

does not have an operational interest in RUBEN CENAL

Inasmuch as this proposed expedition did not

appear to be imminent, the Miami Office intended to

include this information in the next investigative

report concerning the MDC, rather than submit th

information by a special communication.

SIDE FOR

CLASSHFICAZTON

ACTION

IMM 795-26 rami will continue to maintain contact with

concerning this matter and will keep the Bureau

advised.

DENC

N

Bureau (EncEUB;

9) (RM)

2.

- Miami ENC

Classified by

Declassify ofy.

DADR 7/31/85

soroV RJD:emst

(47)

DOR ILENT DIA

REC 4897-4110-36

Copy to: CTA/3taie/RAO, 10/41

ONE/OSI/ACISI

ky touting slip for info.

Date....

713-k.X07.

34446289

i 3 JUL 16 1962

72 611,05

# JUN 28154

4139032

Jost NATI

NH 54027

DocId: 32578782

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TED STATES DEPARTMENT G JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

97-328

Miami, Florida

June

26, 1962

Re: MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO DE CUBA

(Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba - MDC)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

MM T-1, a Cuban national who was formerly an

attorney in Cuba, is a member of the Movimiento Democrata

Cristiano de Cuba (Christian Democratic Movement of Cuba -

MDC), a Cuban anti-Commnist revolutionary organization

with membership both in the United States and Cuba.

MM T-1, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, advised that the MDC in the United States is

separated into two groups, one faction under the leader-

ship of Jose Fernandez Badue, and the other faction headed

by Laureno Batista Falla.

1749 Northwest 16th Terrace, Miami

hon May 29, 1962, MM T-1 advised that Ruben/Cenal,

1 Florida. is a member of

the Batista Falla faction of the MDC. Cenal, according to

MM T-1, stated he was preparing to go to Cuba by boat with

about five or six other individuals.

MENDER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

MM T-1 said that Jose

Armas, a MDC member In

Miami, recently said that Cenal

was trying to rent a small

boat from some unidentified American for the purpose of

going to Cuba. Armas said Cenal intended to carry food

and medicine to Cuba, as well as a few other men, who

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/34/85

RY SPLBTA

SPSMAC

mac 59.941271

97-4110-36

ENCLOSURE

NW 54027 DooId: 32578782 Page 2

---

## Page 3

6/25/62

SAC,

. Miomt (97-328)

Director, FBI (97-4110)'

MOY INTENTO DEMOCRATA, CRISTIANO DE CUBA (MDC)

IS - CUBA

Re Miami Let 6/15162 captioned "wu 795-50"

On page three of relet information is set forth

indicoting that soveral individuals,

apparently connected

with captioned orgonizations were moking. plans for o

small expedition to Cube. f

detaila of one 9 But 29 t

Review of Bufiles in this matter foils to indicate

Promptly advise Bureau:

VHN: gci

(5)

1 • 134-107471 (144:295-5)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UN. ESIFIED

DATE 1/31/85

BYSP6BJAIGCL

Sp& Mac/Mide 5-9-94 (5FK

MAILED 30

JUN 2 2 1962

COMM-FBI

Whet fin

WERECORDED COPY FILED IN

134-1191

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

28

Tavel

T'rotter

Tele. Room

Ô JUN 29

196

Ingram.

MAIL ROOM

Gandy

NH 54027

DocId: 32578782

Page 3

91-4110-35

19 JUN 25 1962

REC- 92

man pro

TELETYPE UNIT

---

