# docid-32288872

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10200-10148

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1267

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: , FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/09/1963

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, INTV, ACT, TELCAL, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32288872 Page 1

94

---

## Page 2

12/11/63

AIRTEL

TO: SIEG

FROM :

92-3171-1267

SACS,

Chicago

New York

Director,

FBI

SAKUSE M. GIANCANA, aka.

•Bo your adrial 13/9/63. (U)

Inasnuch as Phyllis Iccuire has proved uncooperative in

previous attenpts at interview, and since Pel

has been able to furnish considerable personal

information.

concerning Phyllis and others, it is suggested that

be

contacted prior to interview with

• MeGuire to ascertain the

likellhood of her cooperativeneas.. U

New York should attempt such a contact and aduise the

Bureau and Chicago of the results, following which Chicago should

submit & further recommendation concerning the interview. (V)

OTHER 4

NOTE: Chicago advises there appears to be a rift between Phyllis

McGuire and Giancana and requests permission to interview McGuire

to determine her degree of cooperativeness in furnishing

• Information as to the activities of Giancana. (U)

MAILED 10

DEC 1 1 1963

COMM-FBE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

- DeLoach

Evans

*/Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel .

Trotter

Holme's

Gandy

AT L INFORMATION CONTAINED

REIN

"96:

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45792 DocId: 32288872 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FBsy (Rov. 12-13-56)

5..

• co

FBI

Date:

12/9/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA,

aka

"JUNE"

Review of information available in the Chicago files

indicates that the situation between SAM GIANCANA and PHYLLIS

MC GUIRE is at a point where MC GUIRE might readily discuss

her past relationship with GIANCANA with Bureau Agents. U

From information received from PCIL—

and

PCI|

it is evident that MC GUIREh for the

last several months,

discontinue seeing GIANCANA. (U request of her sisters to

telephonic conversation with PHYLLIS MC GUIRE, was highly

berated and insulted by MC GUIRE on that occasion. This

source has furnished other information recently to the effect

that this phone call was not an isolated incident and in factfu

MC GUIRE, has on several recent occasions, told off GIANCANA

Bureau permission is requested to have Agents of the

familiar with GIANCANA's activities, interview

MC GUIRE to determine her degree of cooperativeness in learning

activities of

which she is aware concerning GIANCANA.U

REE 30

Bureau (Rm)

1

- New York (92-793) (Info)

- Chicago

92-3171-1267

MER: dz

(5)

tel to

12-11-63

25 DEC -

ALL INSORIANTIOE

- 5.95

Approved:

Special Agent

in Charge

C CE WICK

NW 45792 DocId: 32288872 Page 3

Sent -

Per

OTHER 4

---

