# docid-32341875

## Page 1

‹ : .... ..

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

/... . .....--....--

.....

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10017-10021

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

: 201-289248

Released under the John

F. Kenned:

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

26-06-2017

March 26, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 13

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Release Date: 01/2006

Board Review Completed: 01/31/96

WW 53199 DocId:32341875 Page 1

---

## Page 2

simmate

Date: 03/19/96

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

---------__---=

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10017-10021

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

..

TO :

TITLE

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

JMWAVE

CABLE RE BAR OWNER GODINEZ'S COMMENTS ABOUT OVERHEARING FORMER CUBAN

JOURNALISTS RECEIVING LTR INDICATING THAT JEK WOULD BE ASSASSINATED ON

22 NOV.

12/03/63

1

AMWORLD

BAQUERO, GASTON

GODINEZ

CUBA JOURNALIST

HERNANDEZ, R.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/09/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : OSW2: V1 1993.12.09.09:57:30:310005:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId:32341875

'Page 2

---

## Page 3

106T0

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

;TO

RECORDS DEFICER STAMP

The followin

ROUTING

authorized:

actionis

DE HENSITIZE

• DIRECTOR.

signed:

FROM A UMWAVE

ACTIONS CAH 4*

INFO & DCI, D/DCI; DDP, C/CI,

Unit

Note:

<I/RXA

VR

If destruction, cite

reasons and coordinate

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

11 appropriatai

SECRET 052328Z

CONDUCTED ON& 4 MAY 1976

_IMPDET GL BY 0/2208

MADR INFO DIR CITE WAVE 844

3 DEC 63 IN 7 28 32

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO

MASAT TYPIG YOBITE ANWORLD

RYBAT GPFLOOR CABLES.

1. 27 NOV 63 WARREN KO, GUERTLER RECD FOLL INFO FROM AMYUM/19

ON MORNING 22 MOV AUFAN

CODINEZ), OWNER OF BAR "MARQUESA DE

SUBA" I MADRID OVERHEARD FORMER CUBAN JOURNALIST

ASTON BAQUERO

TELL ONE CANTO (BELIEVED TO BEXROSENDO (CANTO) HERNANDEZ,

EDITOR OF ACCION CUBANAD THAT HE HAD RECD LIR STATING GPIDEAL WOULD

BE KILLED THAT DAY.

2.. A- IS RECD INFO 26 NOV FRONG

ARIA MANUELA DE (CANAL)

WHOSE ADDRESS IS PLAZA DEL NINO JESUS NO. 6, ZND FLOOR, APT D,

MADRID. CANAL CLOSE FRIEND GODINEZ. AY19 EN ROUTE WAVE AREA

for FOlA Review

FROM MADRID AND UNABLE LEARN FURTHER DETAILS OF ALLEGED CONVER-

on

SATION.

3.

SINCE AMWORLD PROGRAM REQUIRES THAT ANY CONTACT BETWEEN

A/19 AND ODYKE NOT BE REVEALED IN ANY FOLLOW UP ON THIS INFO

MADR STA MAY WISH CENTER INQUIRIES ON BAQUERO VIA LIAISON WITH

CS. COPY

LOCAL SVG.

291-289248

DIN:

HAVE NOT PASSED ABOVE TO OOF AM

MIAMI.

SECRET

"SECRET

D- 20REPBODICTION BY OTHER-THAN-TRÉ ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBRED

"Copy No.

Document Number

277-105

7912-1$

IN 53199DD00Q:3241875 Page 3

---

