# docid-32327863

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10104

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3960-98

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/08/1965

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SALVATORE GRANELLO

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327863

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 note).

13191%

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 10/8/65

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

ARC, MET YORK (92-320611

SUBJECT: SALVATORE GRANELLO aka

4

AR

Enclosed for

the Bureau is one extra

copy for information purposes concerning JAMES

RIDDLE HOFFA.

NY 4103-C-TE advised SA WILLIAM DAVID KANE

on 9/8/65 that he is currently engaged in a dredging

operation in Key West, Florida, which operation is

being conducted in connection with the building of

a marina.

During the previous, two weeks, the

informant discovered that the coin Meter

Miami, Florida, had quietly purchased 38 acres of

prime beach front propertynowned by the City of

Key West, for the purpose of building a marina.

This property was leased to the company under a 99

Ware

The Vil

sent.

- Bureau

2

- Chicago

- Miami

1

- New York

WDK : 1js

(10)

o-Hmm@AT

41/26/65

To 961392-3960: 9x

I FR

SNOW 1

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32327863

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

wad?

NY 92-1108

year lease and the agreement was to pay the City a

IIve percent rate of the yearly net income.

Informant

ILL

advised that one JERRY CONLEY, President of coin

FLH

Meter Company, which company services juke boxes

and automatic

laundry machines, is an ex-convict

jail and that his partner in the

Illinois recently released from

company is SALVATORE

AGRANELLO aka Sally Burns.

In discussion with CONLEY, informant

was told to contact GRANELLO in NY to complete

negotiations for the dredging of the proposed

marina site. Informant learned that CONLEY hac

bribed a highly placed key West City official to

lease the above-mentioned property.

on 10/8/65, Informant advised that he

had been in telephonic contact with CONLEY who

told him that he visited JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

approximately 10 days ago in Las Vegas and that

HOFFA agreed to try to arrange for the Teamsters

Union to loan the Coin Meter Company one million

dollars.

Informant advised that Coin Meter

advised that he had withdrawn himself from

Coin Meter Company so that no ex-convicts would be

listed as officers and that he was attempting to have

the Walter Heller Company withdraw the suit until

the Teamster loan comes through.

LEADS

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA.

Will attenpt to develop

background information re JERRY CONLEY and the Coin

Mter Company.

-2-

DocId: 32327863 Page 3

---

