# docid-32336100

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90132-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-29-827

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

11/24/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JACK RUBENSTEIN

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM MIAMI DIVISION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HW 45948

DocId: 32336100 Page 1

---

## Page 2

F'D-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

-..?

FBI.

Date:

11/24/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

wW.a

WEEKLY SUMMARY

On 11/20/64, BOB HOPE, the movie actor, arrived in

Miami, Fla., on Northeast Airlines Flight 53 from New York

City.

He was accompanied by a young dark-haired woman.

MORRIS KLEINMAN (MM" 92-665) met HOPE at Miami International

Airport and drove HOPE, the young woman and another unidenti-

fied man to the Americana Hotel, Bal Harbour, Fla.

former PCI, advised that JOSEPH

FALCONE,

son of SALVATORE FALCONE (MM 92-98) recently acquired

the Casa Mia Restaurant, 2024 N. W. 95th St., Miami, Fla.

So A conner to operate and wark at sale gro

Falcone's Italian Grocery in Miami and

manager of the Casa Mia Restaurant.

He also advised that "SONNY" CAPONE,

son of AL

CAPONE, the well-known Chicago hoodlum, and his wife have

settled their differences and are now back together in the

Miami area.

in the office of Eastern Airlines in Miami.

MM 743-C reported that TONX SWEET, a gambler, and

ARMAND \CERAMI (MM 92-945) sold their Tony's

Fish Market

Restaurant at Ft.

Lauderdale, Fla., and bought a 400 seat

--

restaurant at Key West, Fla.

MM 752-C advised that JOE CAMPERLENGO, a Broward

•. Co., Fla, night cluboperator, recently leased the Peppermint

Lounge,

N. Bay Village, Fla.;

for five years from JOHN BIELE

(MM 92-479) and DICK/CAMI, son-in-law of BIELE.

He reported

ier

63-7-77

Bureau

• Miami

RFF: mgw.?/

edt)

REC-64

Z1 NOV 27 1964

Appr

C C • Wick

Sent

_ M

Per

71

Special,

39e0

chille

Charge

13434

NW 45948 DocId: 32336100 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

that FRANK DIOGUARDI (MM 92-405), JOE INDELICATO (MM 92-404)

and JOF MILSTEIN (MM 92-1360) have been seen hanging around

there.

MM 509-C-TE advised a new gambling club called

the Collins Hungarian Civic Group Club, opened at 618

Collins Ave., Miami Beach.

The principal card games are

The operators are

HARRYAPAPIER, alleged to be a fence and part owner of the

Just

taken in as

one of the operators of the club as he was able to secure

the "OK" and is able to handte the "fix" with the local law

enforcement agencies. AL STERN, a gambler and dealer who Neufi

recently arrived from Las Vegas,

is the manager and the

dealers are HERSHIE (INU); STANLEY WILLIAMS and STANLEY

STANN, to date.

He also advised ABE/SCHLETSKY, a gambler, left

for Las Vegas, Nevada. SCHETSKY just invested some money

and became a partner of ALFIEART (MM 162-14) in the Derby

Horse Room and LOUIS BLACKER,

a gambler and Miami Beach

FLIT

laundry operators, acquired

a piece of SCHLETSKY's financial

interest.

MM 962-PC reported that SOL EDER (MM 165-208)

accompanied by his brother, CORNELIUS EDER, a resident

Ngf

of New York City, visited at the office of the National

Plastering lo.,

and JACK RUBIN.

Siami Beach, operated by MAX EDER (MM 92-467))

- 2 -

HW 45948 DocId: 32336100 Page 3

---

