# docid-32302491

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-106

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

04/03/1961

2

SUBJECTS :

GM, SMO, TELCAL, ASSOC, RACK ACT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

WH 45852 DocId: 32302491 Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

16 (Ror. 12-13-561

Transmit the following in

Via AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

4/3/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PIYTSBURGH (92-228)

(92-236)

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

on 4/1/61

Ave., New Kensington,

Pa., telephonically requested SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III to

meet with him at Kings Motel, Monroeville, Pa., and at the

time of the meeting BOMBIK advised as follows:

He and others in New Kensington, Pa., have formed the Committee

for Good Government.

Their purpose,

as a factionalist group

in the Democratic Party, is to defeat incumbent New Kensington

city officials in the election primaries.

They feel that most

of the present office holders are, in varying degrees, corrupt

"rubber stamps" for the MANNARINOS. If they are successful,

they will start by trying to suppress

racket activities with

a view towards ultimate elimination of such activities.

He

is on the Publicity Committee of the group and it is theiry

task to locate, develop and utilize information concerning

the opposition slate members.

FBI cannot furnish any information to his group or assist

it in any way but he will be alert for the development of any

information concerning activities of the MANNARINOs and their

associates which might be of interest to the FBI or other

Federal agencies.

REG 47 92-2914-106

desires that

his identity be protected and does not

want to speak with representatives of other agencies.

Bureau

Pittsburgh

8

A.2R

6

1.961

TGF/gb

(8)

14

C C = Wick

60 APR 1 Eatal Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

•Per

45852 DocId: 32302491 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

0 00

PG 92-228

92-236

3y airtel 3/31/61 Miami advised that MM 660-C stated that

is of 3/26/61 GABRIEL MANNARINO was believed to be stayin

at the residence of LOU VOLPE, 12050 Maple Rd., Keystone

Point, North Miami, Fla., and would be there about one more

week.

It is noted that LOUIS VOLPE is

former Pittsburgh top

hoodlum.

BOTH SUBJECTS ARE CONSIDERED ARMED & DANGEROUS.

2

NW 45852 DocId: 32302491 Page 3

---

