# docid-32170606

## Page 1

8/29/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

collection act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10171-10425

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-109060-1ST

NR 5767

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, NK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Titlel

DATE

: 09/01/1967

PAGES

: 7

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JFK, ASSA, REACTION

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INCLUDES LHM

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

1/2

---

## Page 2

FD/36: (9oy. 5-22-64).

APPROPR

AND F

ADVISE

TE AGENCIES

OFFICES

BY ROUTING

DATE

lao

riccition

9/1/67

foghsmif the following in

DExcept a 9 paneence

(Type in plaintext of code)

Via

AIRTEL

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

assassinatine

President

93

SAC, NEWARK

(105-

980341

F Kennecterns

sal:

505 KAMB/EM

POLITICAL MATTERS IN YUGOSLAVIA

(11574-72)

IS -10

dated and

(see ence pg 4

Sme

Enclosed for

the Bureau are livè copies of LuM

captioned as

CLASSIFIED BY 5668.5L0

France, prior to proceeding on to Yugoslavia.

He

said

that

on his day of arrival in Belgrade, Yugoslavia,

7/21/62 he reported his

at the American Embassy

presence in that country to officialec

62105060

rugoslavia, particularly by the varioy sece go pepit inn

overnnent officials

he had met,

as mentioned in attached.

It will be recalled

that RADA GLUSAC, IVO VEOCIC, and ISMET REDZIC were all

definate

Horner Yugoslav principals of NK 2221-S when they were

assigned in the U.Sh(s)Informant had said that these individuali

assigned to UDBa and that they are presently in the

Forei

In

ligence Section of the Secretary of Foreign

cation

Affair

LS UNCLASSIFIED EX

UROSEVIC,

5)n 2231-5

said that while contersing

with RADOMIES

aSIM

asked to

extend best regards from UROSEVIC

шожу.

following

persons

IC(22

SHOWY OTH

3

-

Bureau

(RM)

(Encis.

"5)

10012-272

3 - Newark

(134-1172A AGEN

WK: jan

KEQ.

RE

5

19521

waxI

(6)

DATE

HOW

ORW

1/35102

BY

404

Approved

15,50 DeTa

196 Special Agent in Charge

Sen

M

RESEARCH

: P

170606

page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 105-

Late Ad pres

NEN OF NAN THOMAS.

900 East Front Street

Plainfield, N.v.

telephone Pr 6=1231(&y(s)

UROSEVIC described above as a wealthy Negress with

whom he dined a number of years ago at her home in Plainfield.

Newark indices negative concerning tils individual (C(S)

MES. MX MURTA

Meridian House

1630-Crescent Place

North, Vashington, D. C.

GAILYSILVER

2165

Strafford Street

Oak Park. Michigan

DI. JACK C

XFISHER

Resources or cho-future

1755

Massachusetts Avenue North

Washington Le

.C.

(or possibly Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.)

DRAGI IVKOVIC

2614 South Homan Avenue

Chicago

23,.

Illinois

friends and made concrete relationship with other persons

in the Yugoslav Government.

He said that he was asked o

many of these friends to return to Yugoslavia next year da)

The enclosed is classified confidential to protect

source of continuing value.

2:

HH 53025 DocId

22120506 Page 9

---

## Page 4

•In Reply, Please Rejer to

File Na

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

September

2982

•BENT IDEN

10/8/93

Clacs

Declass

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GaL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X ()L6

POLITICAL MATTERS IN YÚGOSLAVIA

SLAV 241/97 4 dresses

INTERNAL SECURITY - YUGOSLAVIA

A source of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI),

who has furnished reliable information in the past, recently

returned from/a visit to Yugoslayia.

Yugoslavs Including family members and observations of his

of the thinking of the Yugoslay people he encountered during

this visit, with some emphasis on their political views

This source advised that shortly after his arrival

in Belgrade, Yugolsavia, he visited with a friend since boyhood,

Radomir/Urosevic, presently a supreme court Justice 0x

Serbia, and formerly a Deputy in UDBa after World War II, under

the recently deposed 'Yugoslav Vice-President Aleksandar Rankoxic.

agree with her husband's political philosophy. She is a medical

doctor?@(s)

Moncilo Dragoic, who reportedly

with the SecretarI

Foreign Affairs, and a friend of

Urosevic, appeared

Dragoic, who had just

returned

from Moscow, USSR, brought gifts and vodka to

Urosevic.

introduced to him by Urosevic as "a friend of ours.

62-109060

3/04

LANCLOSURIA

SECOR

Iw: 53025 DocTa:32170606.

TIAL

GIC

101

Excladed fr

s downgrading

and

automatis

declassification

---

## Page 5

CONT IDENTTAS

POLITICAL MATTERS IN YUGOSLAVIA

In reply to the question

as to current conditions

in Moscow,

Dragoic

made some genéral statements.

that the Muscovites were greatly aroused by the Mid-East

crisis, however; added that the Soviet Union definitely does

not want a war.

He said he heard that when the American fleet

within the area were many Soviet submarines who were present

to challenge any undesireable, steps taken by the United States.

Dragoic said it was the leeling that all action in

the Mid-East was under the direction of the Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA) •:

He related there is suspicion that all of the

Jewish businessmen who travel the world, businesswise, are

contacts of the CIA and report their impressions to that agency.

Dragoic said that alter the visit of the Soviet

Minister to Egypt, the Soviets dispatched many military

instructors to Egypt.

He

aid that the Mid-Fast problem will

evolve as another Vietnam

yote

Koca popovic, former

Yugoslay Vice-President and

presently a ranking Yugoslav official, traveled to Egypt

to conier with Egyptian president Nasser.

It was the concensus

that the Arabs were surprised that the war terminaied as

quickly as it did; however, when the Egyptians recuperate,

they will again become active:

Concerning the question as to whether the Israeli

victory was a set back for the Soviets, it was felt that

because of this crisis and Soviet commitment to the Arabs,

they now have a green light to openly support the Arab nations.

Further, the Soviets are in a better position to display some

control

over the Mediterranean Sea and the Suez Canal Area

since when the American fieet departed the area, the Soviet

fleet moved into a better position. U

Source questicned as to why Yugoslavia

supported the Arab nations when Yugoslavia continually refers

to itself as a honaligned nation and one who desires peace.U

HM: 53025

DocId: 321706061

Page

75

---

## Page 6

BECKE

100.

IF TDENTIAL

POLITICAL METTERS IN YUGOSLAVIA

Dragoic replied that they did not take any positive action,

but reflected support to the Arabs because they felt that

the Arabs were victims of an aggressive Israel, which is

a branch of Wall Street; and secondly that they did not want

victimet an

Arab wo denly relationship Yugoslayla enjoys with the

Dragoic condemod Israel for being impatient and not

allowing the United Nations to find the solution to this

Mid-East problem.

He said that the action taken by Nasser

was primarly to protect all of the Egyptian interests.

said that Israel is altempting to enslave the Arabs and that

if Israel does not return territory confiscated during this

conflict, there waxy

exist a constant war between the Arabs

and the Israelis

Dragoic said the Israelis were fortunate to have

conquered the Arabs with such rapidity since crack-armed

Algerian forces were on their way to lend support to the

Arabs. He said the Syrians were considered to be poor soldiers

Dragoic repea-ed that the CIA worked for the Israelis:

since the Israeli forcesknew all of the positions of Arab

troops and equipment at the

time the conflict commenced is Si

Dragoic said the Soviets leel that their greatest

enemy is Red China.

He said the Soviets are prepared for

any conflict with China although they are taking all measures

of precaution so as not to initiate any aggression.

He said

it is ielt that the Chinese woulg

not fight, but would merely

surround the USSR with manpower.

Dragoic asked source thy President Johnsen and

(6)

interpret the Vietnam situation, but indicated that most of

the people of the United States support this cause,

this,

he said, being especially noticeable when he has witnesse

long lines near United States Army Recruitment Centers

HH 53025- DocTd:32170606 Page 6

3

---

## Page 7

ENTIAL

POLITICAL MATTERS IN YUGOSLAVIA

It was conceded that among the Yugoslav officials,

President Johnson is not very popular, mainly because of the

Vietnam situation.

The source was, surprised to learn that

a number of Yugoslavs

questiond as to whether President Johnson

was behind the assassination of the late President John f

Kennedy. According to source, Kennedy was "extremely popular

with the Yugoslavs and that many Yugoslavs were in tears at

*He news of his assassination. L

This source said that he subsequently was in contact

with RadaGIusac and ivo Veocic, both with the o-iice oi the

Secretary of Foreign Affairs.

This source, who knew these

individuals in the United States, said they discussed the

combings of the lugoslav establishments in the United states

and Canada during January, 1967, /and appeared to nave all oi

the

repoits on these bombings.

He said Veocic related 1t

was' their impression that the American authorities responded

very quickly when these bombings occurred. Veocic mentioned

-OF.

the names of a few Yugoslav

immigrants in

the United States,

known also to source, who.

in these bombings.

excellent cooperation with American police authorities, particularly

when President Tito visited the United States in the past.

This source said he

again met with these individuals

on the following day for a luncheon engagenent.

He said

as they drove in Belgrade, they pointed out the "famous UDBa

building", which is near

the Secretary of Foreign Affirs

building.

Source said they had a genéral conversation, with

emphasis placed on Yugoslav imnigrants in the United States A

Source said on

the following day, he traveled to

his place of birth, Negotin, Yugoslavia, where he visited with

Source said on the first day, he was obligated

to report to the Chier ni UDsa in Negotin, since it is a ru

that all visitors must so report. Source said no problems

arose from this visit (S)

Source advised that it was his opicion, from talking

MONE

DENAT

4

53025

DocId: 32170606

Paget

---

