# docid-32341088

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

124-10221-10481

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-31889-121, 122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, DE

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/25/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS:

DEB, ASSOC, PASSPORT, TRA, MED, SUBPOENA, FGJ, TOLL

CALLS RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/06/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ, INC A/T

V9.1

DocId: 32341088

Page 1

72

---

## Page 2

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

•DATE? 11-14-2017

DE 29-1432

for his health, to Italy, Spain, France, Sweden and Norway.

was to leave New York

City by TWA Airline on 7/23/63,

and arrangements were made by the Department with RAY

FARRELL schake him downt

Commissioner, INS, Washington, D.C., to have

Customs

In connection with the recently reported slaying of MERVIN

GOLD in the Cleveland area, Department Attorney WILLIAM

FRENCH has requested that the Cleveland Office advise

whether the material reportedly left by GOLD for the FBI

made any reference to TRISCARO or was otherwise pertinent

to this case.

On 7/25/63, FRENCH advised that he expects to have a

subpoena issued for JOSEPH F. VERHELLE to appear before a

FGJ at Detroit on 8/13/63, and will also consider having

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE appear before the same EGJ.

FRENCH

requested no other investigation at this time, except to

determine the identity of subscribers to the following

telephone numbers, which appear on statements of calls

charged to the local telephones of JOSEPH F. VERHELLE and

ROBERT E. MC CARTHY, JR.

LEADS:

The below listed offices will determine the name and address

of the subscriber to each of the numbers in their respective

erritories, as of the indicated period.

It is noted that

the statements of calls also included other numbers, the

subscribers to which have been ascertained through other

investigations. In order that this information may be

furnished to FRENCH as part of a complete summary of calls,

also showing identity of subscribers, it is requested that the

below-listed offices furnish the requested information

in reach Detroit

for dissemination by the Bureau to the Department and by

Detroit to FRENCH:

OFFICE

CITY & STATE

Buffalo Buffalo, N.Y.

TELEPHONE NO.

TL 4-5954

PERIOD OF CALLS

Chicago Chicago, Ill.

822-4770

10/17/62

10/3 - 12/27/62

-2-

DocId:32341088 Page 2

---

