# docid-32122376

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

_DATE:, 11-14-2017

JrK Assassination system

Identification Form

valt.

4/14I<U1

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10020-10213

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-2386

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: USSS

FROM:

GRUBE, ROBERT F.

TO:

USSS

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/22/1964

4

JFK, SUSPECT, CHURCH OF THE FIRST BORN OF THE

FULLNESS OF TIME

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3.

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/25/1993

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32122376

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

_DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE

TREASURY DEPARTMENT

1,3 6b wa

Research

city,

DE BY

10 lobers Fo Grabe

OFFICE

STATUS

Closed

2-16-17-61

salt lake 01ty

PERIOD COVERED

FRENO. 00-2-34,398

TITLE OR CAPTION

Porson Identitied.

home

Addresa:

Ralph Rigbes

576 Ceater 5t500t

Salt Laba C1t5, Urah

2NO PS IS

Informtion obtainod relative to the

Church of

utch

of top govermont officia's and or top of f1oials

of the Church of Sonus Uhr1at of Latter-day saints.

Ralph Higbao denled he made any a tatement indi-

cation that thase vero part of the pollolas of tha

Church of the first born of the Pallneas o' Tina.

(A)

IN TROIUOTIONS

Bolerando 11 Made dO sy preTIOUs renorandus report dated in she Sall

Lako C18y 019100 on January 3.

(B)

SENTRAL INQUIRIT 88

At the offices el the Church of Tenua Garlet as Latter dy Sulate LaUtAl

PYr Jora of to Valinett of Ples, uhloh 18 an apos toa group el the ID8 Churet.

MT. Kimball arised that the IDS Church coneldary the Church of tho

pirat dorn of the Fullands of tira do bo a "eult organsation," and that any

unders bron sat to thats attentlon are exormloated Pron the IDs Churah.

contioned that ons el the doetrims of the Charah of the Pirat Born of the sall-

soon of Mus lo plupal marringo unloh vas formerly nanotioned by the IDE Chural.

So axplained that altar 1090 dha prophos al the Gharad alonad the door on plural

MarTia gos oven la 2008114108 share 18 vas not prenibitod by lan.

Pe, luball aratod ha ostinates there aro approadmately 500 8o 1,000

ATION

21Д

[POPIES DESTROYED

-109060-1

DATE

386

123)

4 DEt 27

APPROVED

DATE 1'"

ork.

Grabe

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel. DATE: 11-14-2017

C 8024, 892

locatod in tha nertare action of Salt Lal

ma tary lamillar uhen the prior cotiation or tha lobaron fally aa mantionad

In prior eor respontanes preold fron the fadoral barons of Imestigation, and

gelated that so grou oilll practicas plural narriages in tha comunity la

1ax200.

ME. Kinall adulaed 1i haa naver bean brought so hia attention or 1nd1

sated in any manner that the Church of the Firat Born of the Fullnass of Time ino

aluded in their doctrina or polieles the ananasination of top governant olficialo

or sifiedada of the Lns Church.

Approsinately one meer ago the doors of the IDs Temple 1n Salt Lako

61t7 wore baukad.

This reanlead in sona daname in the hoavy manoiva doors aa

all as the ford of the blaut being deflasted imerd and cauring ninor danago

inside the Iompla. Althongh thin has nevor been proven or established, 1t 10

sho thought of sona orpieera of the Salt Lake lity Pollee Department that mem-

bara of the churen of the First Born o8 the Fullness of TimA Here rasmonsibla

for the hombing.

1S KALEN DORAN

Hit BEet

On January 17 at the aroltor for ne kennant Papper Corporaron

at Magna,

parsonal pile on PalaD. Higaos and It indieated he wan originally employed

by hennecest Coppar Corporation in September, 1900 through Fabruary, 1902.

During that pariod of tim there vere several mossione when r. highe wag

zou employed by the coppar connary me to raruezions in sorce, ate.

Tho P120

further indiester that Ralph Higher has been asaignan Soon Seourity Nabe liGhE

588044-8578.

Mis wife to Crace-lund, and ho had tun dependents, hargaret

Born August 26

1959 and Julia rechelle, born Detober 1r 196%

Higore's prior employment consisted of working for the l. S. Foreat

8e 19on, son of the above joba tara only, per tina employsant.

The per connal s1ld farther Indicated that Ralpa i goes var boss ra

Panguiton. Utah on Januast Ad93. Re formarly resided at lil2 Californio

Avere in salt lake Citys and shen boed to hia present addraas, 576 Centor

Street in Salt tale CETo UtAl

see RALPH DERAN

Mr. Hardeos arnedad there la nothing in sho file to indicato daat

Ralph Hipbea breake Involved in any diffleully while employed by the compony,

and fron the inioration avaih bla ho would ba considren for sahipisso

0010:32122376 Page 3

---

