# docid-32308354

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10294-10212

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-165503-41

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/06/1967

3

FS, ASSOC, ACA, SHIP, MEXICO, EXPLOSIVES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32308354

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 911-14-2017

DOS

RÉVIEWED BY SONJFK TASK FORCE,

ON

12/2972 men/dat

AT RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DIT

WAL stant Aer rey leeneral

Director, FBI

SECRET

Classi

-24

Declassily on: GAL

October 18, 1967

1

1

-

Mr.

Wannall

- Mr.

Nasca

!,

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, and others

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

IN LEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED PYSPSTELRHEA 21629

REASON

FCIM.

DATE

F Ranco

DECLASSIFICATION

10/18192019

Reference is made to my letter dated August 14,

1967, with enclosure which indicated that an official of

the Office of Munitions Control advised that additional

ClassinGi

descriptive data or chemical analysis was necessary in

order to make a determination as to whother the explosives

in this case are on the lunitions Control List. (gU)

On September 26, 1967, a confidential

SourCe

abroad advised that the explosives recovered by the

MAILED 3

OCT 18 1967

Mexican Federal Security Police and the Mexican Army in

the State of Tanaulipas were still in the possession of

COMM-EBI

the Mexican Army at the Department of Military Industry®

The source advised that the Mexican Army has the capability

of conducting an analysis to determine the chemical com-

position of the recovered explosives, but the source

himself pointed out that he did not have such intornation.

The source indicated that the results of any

chemical analysis desired could be obtained upon the

presentation of a formal request through ossical dinio- l

matic channels by the Government of the united states

directly to the Government of Mexico C

alysis bo made throusk the appopriste diplonti only

OFFICES

You may desire to request

that a chenical

channels.

In the event that

that this Bureau be advised..

this is done, it is requestedd

K448 105-165503 - 41

CLAGGIRED 5Y 5668 S0/622

Tolson

DECLASSERON: 25

230/87

DeLoach -

Mohr

1

-

Miami (105-12890) (Enclosure) (cc MEXlet 10/6/67)

Bishop

Casper

Mexico City

(105-6046)

Callahan

Conrad

Felt.

]

WEO (105-82005) (Enclosure) (ccMEXlet 10/6/67)

- Foreign Liaison Unit

Cale

Rosen

Sullivan

VHN: seq (9) se

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

HolmesKe

Candy a

TELETYP SECRET in

SIGONTAINND

1021561PFD

(

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

HERE SHOWN

ALIE ORMATION CONTAINES

HERE ES UNCLASSIFIED!

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

DocId: 32308354

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Recorts

-O-ONALLY

5010-107-02

MAY 1962 EDITION

"GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVER TMENT

T3903₴

Memorandum

Agte).

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

APPROPRIATE AGENC

FICHS

AND PITED

ADVITFE SY

STEP 15}

yeagley cen

I-MM.

I-MEX

1-cuFo (Encl

AAG

Letter to

VHNISE

10-18-6

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-165503)

PANT, METEO ELIY (105-6045

_ Confidential

DATE:

October 6, 1967

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, aka; ET AL

Reported Plans to Blow Up

• Cuban Ship

In Mexican Port, Possibly Veracruz

IS - CUBA

NM - CUBA

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTEROSO BY SOS TEK/RHICA P42A

REASO

FCIM, IN

DATE OF REVIEW

It8....

DECLASSIFISATION

To tols)

Re Mexico CIty letter 8/31/67, and Mami Letter 9/14/57.

On September 26, 1967, FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS,

3°

Director,

Mexican Federal Security Police (DFS), who should

be

protected as a confidential source abroad, advised that the

explosives recovered by the DFS and the Mexican Army in the

State of Tamaulipas are still in the possession of the Mexicar

Army at the Department of Military Industry•

He advised that

the Mexican Army has the capability to conduct an analysis to

determine the chemical composition of the recovered explosives

but that he himself does not have such information.

GUTIERREZ BARRIOS again Indicated that the results

of the chemical analysis desired may be obtained upon presentatio

of a formal request through official diplomatic channels by

the government of the United States directly to the government

Of Mexico. (B

Mexico CIty 1s placing this case in a pending-inactlye

status.

4-13-94

Classified My

sP8-may/nede

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU:

Declassify On: DARR JFK

R

The Bureau 1s requested to initlate necessary actior

for the request of the desire

chemical analysis through

diplomatic channels.

Classified by

inato

pout compe

6 - Bureau

1 - Liaison

sec tem of Declasp

Exempt from

6+0-17 105-15503

2 - Miami, 105-12890)

OCT

1967

-

1

Washington

Fleld, 105-82005, Info)

- Mexico City

1C1 1 1

RJG : gmh

N51 6M ,01

255-2311

(7)

RICAN

Classified

Declassify on:

LATIN-I

DR 4/4

18300

lord

32

/T.%

..*LON CONTAIN

JLASSIFIED

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Saving Stal SHows

Confidential SECRET

DocId: 32308354

Page 3

---

