# docid-32271364

## Page 1

ras,

v09-16-96ccr

JEK RECORDS

CIOss Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER : 180-10142-10060

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 22-23-02

Other

Agency Equity: None

-=-=

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

HSCA

CIA

TO

TITLE

DATE

00/00/00

PAGES

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTES

SUBJECT(S) : ; CIA, FILES;

HELMS, RICHARD; WC;

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN PART

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

08/07/95

COMMENTS

:BOX 11

Date in: 01/26/96

T T

F

FF F F

F F

FF

FF

F

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection bet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

14 53080

DocId: 32271364

Page

---

## Page 2

Tel Yaps and Photo Surveillance

the critul stags as nistigaton,

q the epistene

q telephonce and

Sort coloso

cotified:

the room for the seracturts

Ita telephone tops and our -

it was snortis from the Agency,

standpoint, but the telepahme

tapo see menn thine

worth the Motion

I Helds Esee session dear 9, pp51-52,.

regarding Mextió involvemen see ]

Nartels, the Cit had pieser

formation to the FBI regardin

the Metics City bla, operation

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 2

---

## Page 3

disag the post-poster

Onandition, as of Noem de 28,1963

wa was that the cas had tate hone

taps in operation against the Cutr

and that thing the tape

Oswalds

ins the randy atons o the instiga -

tion.

Donath a timore. and

nine the substance.

formatin E le parties Frate

Comran. Ise Scelsadeg; J,This

process right well have hamped

the Commissin' abelts to percess

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364 Page 3

---

## Page 4

snight

196C

it is tet, so the whet

1890% L0C0A

prade the wane Commo

with a mend t chine

he Hang Davald Metico Cis visit

mention of the fact that Dawalls

vani anoon

ran worth to

cho sea terpes and ra as

Buntine

manent stameste

yet an andeas damate

heter at mba emple

Say Sylvin in and Boret

Ffics at the saves embran

Amoulate an a motion prade

she coveractio betto Calo

preet sate and Cute

Cit has as tapped and honecter.

ennegand

HN 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3%. Anere

the letter dat the wane

Contin engines

to the Felico

10,1969 vete Doin' dra

communication to done

Cass

to apport the enchan, frwas

Roo recollation that betwee

peats dad voted the CIA"

headquarters in Fan, Digar

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 5

---

## Page 6

and had be shot won

Fancy nutting fem th

Hawers, Mr. Porca did No pera-

all she dim availate

the waran Como deman

contone

The agenc

dus mus this dote tone

phones the to Series Carette anna

an about ve at the Chault.

auguandes

g. by on

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364 Page 6

---

## Page 7

an, saved se won deane

Ware Conscabin tensole ye

and acces to the productim miterd

A reve these recrands tend

to suppot the Comittes belly

that Warren Crocobin, through

Mas Sta, Coleran and i leo

Led not obtain docod to leteptine

9, 1964. At that time, Calesman,

And Will met worth Wan Seatt,

the CiA's Chef? Statin in Merico

travocript and translatin, descoe

one to that dal

tappen indiful that had been gue

paces to the refere remain

had at least be me awand that

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 7

---

## Page 8

the CIA did maintain teleghne

sulate. Lalawson nemorandum,

21146%,

reveal that the Wane Commen

had learned that ClA Lad Cait

versations,

rogatim by the Inglian 7 ederal Police,

that dat

ate Icite?]

Helme spided to the Commson.

eques at ances, indicatig thatte

nt to arrange fact

Warren Cancooin repro

March 12,

It one he noted that the recros

revrewed do not reveal the manne

in whet the Crimen Dearned

the Datin- Armas intercept, Aa

'detailer absve

e, bath the FBI any white

House (Through Me Denge Durdy wre

awore, the CIA's telephic snarit

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Icites Onen

lana activitis in Mecio Cig. Che

procals

cortattes

anderatin through the cIA's

initiative.

anothe

Slawon

remandin, dates arc 25, 1964

Sennet to tip to nio.

tentati clin later

Downed neciotup, that he had randa

who denied tian

CIA memorandas

What the Metican police learnes

when thes intessogated Mrs. Silver

Duran, a employee q the Cuban

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Choulate in Mepico Cits, andis

police.

andicate

that

slawon

limited Mean firs

nathan ep

the Meplan police dumman

no indication that Slawson

Lad been

provided Rio.

ANANANA

ite suran

anton tue

telephone intercept timacp to

I The Cimmettes belle itat

cemeter.

25 Mad bee

19604L Cite 7

inclitin that Drewald Lad victed

the Cuban Enlary in the occasion

The conclusion de crete a baold

Silicaduat

when

andace

have reflectedt

is fat a the verow citte o

zuscosoba-

sten a criticam a the teac

police seeming repert.

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 10

---

## Page 11

dennis of sey, therend

warren Commisen,

oratio City

sorring

itera q the comes pat Want

Oad

Commissin stiff membe decemberg ity

win stated in the fit cable to att

retend to

Duran and a crite t of Soviet

coula fuele citin Saves

+701A 420-75571

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364 Page 11

---

## Page 12

OTta + 1964 5941

Стівня со ча на атил

espon detra, Sela Duran tasti-

memorandi, Marhd, 1164,

ti 57. Medico.

suscillari

pertin, Date di indicata

that his navoniing

acco tutte silipe

ar, atto da stampo a Septela

stati the an Anted Waget

casin itis deferitare

til 0 111592141

Entrano, inas lest iro recano.

HH 53080 DocId: 32271364 Page 12

---

## Page 13

conda tre

The rend ouppat te Cromites

aporil2, 1964t7

stag

and siena?"

i famale fra it, no, 2

•sAmbassado

1215d

, tregia that Oriet

intendento settle don in

2) We vinces lede to de equis

per allon

Whe the trent Nesto the

dietro anelataloger;

HH 53080. DocId:32271364 Page 13

---

## Page 14

3) We would seid leath

at Gian Embason is desert.

The quation initially prostin the

some no reced teren me pit

tant to 1560, Cipstiss.+740294915)

The Clem: Slan reline-

pras

releas That Medal is

tacosun, at the sey

This al

torean it at the bad it be

Sea than tanget matties.

alas listing coe that ot

SAN tHe 9A01

hoe pivides to the Comics. The

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 14

---

## Page 15

Or Apie + 1964) 5693 d.

repris City Fragi

The mit ist la fananes

ette antie nie in. a

a anchisin tothe went thre

Sush nie triste une

voted

posible cmopriacis, lave lea

sort the defil quotisbat

The ameich and merita

reports, af te tonalatim i

neon, and in come cons lalking

The fang ne detail

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Atti Clean and Sanatier

Lated a a with conch to the commiss

to the Commit this stigate,.

to a limited and peone, eng

at itin dratig

repentatio the State Daq Inde

Procleno Denned assor nation.

Andan indicated to

that the Cite Main as ten

compens, or Enocent 25/enson

s the wore a sa la

Freenen

Class T

Repentino, Clari sting the S70%

HH 53080

DocId:32271364 Page 16

---

## Page 17

entra

M. Seat stated at the bro

Jenning od manatie

intendan to make a complet

6, need

all threy was had been cleres

In TOPSECRET and Ethateral

I at wet hi to in

I Slauson Menio, Apral 22, 1968, pard

M.St 280401to tale

sum repentatios the crA's canal.

his sta.

was hat had one contact

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 17

---

## Page 18

all knon Cuba and Pesan intellagee

Eurs ménia

immeliatel tirereton

ore triestetteonie

Che distorti and imition te

art all the crucial prno

Kake aca

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 18

---

## Page 19

seasons meand a Apular, 1944

telephonis the palate.

tam and Could enveston.

the acere

so miltons, it thee tied the?

telephones sure lane intrepi,

ment that a i apie ie1,1964,

iteration,

The commit freet

retrace ith factual ly asse

it had structue dould petites

land, paluy

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 19

---

## Page 20

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364

Page

20

---

## Page 21

3

H2ta thi thi iide,

Bnlu stel de ec til nTli fkilsgezh

juha cnfosation de abacliße,

Oruthãi paone dr

lett t 109 70 C8 Pintin

rodmitiaia le

urote that the Cirn masa Lad dea-

inorma liih enin Je ntiee shä

theCIn tad dirdi isated aeiied

Aioça de da tio dta Ehe de a no Saedico

Dand ine

eeenin eel od

wattadanai rumbedinanit

adiea Gias tiho Coot-m90em ainng

lsunathta dison pated sto Cf

ees5eee1ia Tarente

weco@ledo.rngeteon (81885)77) 049

tsthe 11es dem eondeet

Ta1 00a06 SalsaeeT

Doha Eceloo deslife01.0

je.a d8.o.g

sen.dand.@nric.e.e go l8%

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Derrilol

ston flet

MMM

On Naveml928, 105

Ooust Ca 14-2 shs

A pha tigragoto

Tt ti seas nacane

Chad beensupplet sorfél

on Natem le ae,

ise io Gines"Fafee

Cizsaatiné

Una shie seiie

ram (eate tinorc aai lageo Migatt

o thtoder soleal,

the Soriet and Parta Enla is.w.

Dowalll

13GLTROCMONOCOR

StaTeE

Rerpat Neli o e dunp

adrsn 60 10 0a cemontate

Tite vele dt paoensa a

bel clite d 00-06941146

Ragio Cot n d ataten 4e 1001

it itkat. thae to oowald.

100557 elsung1°, 1964 Manguenite

OAuner tatil eca

circamtares ennde cRan dhecda)

ef i the pro Cripa Ohle d0einll

Voltees txat aRe lichieeAsA

a phelafia zene 12192 i9

Het dootint etiste

encumo tanes gte do latre gitts.

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Commit minin t

erstait engera (2).

¿atla alane Commence

mik a unan deezerin

The, 2s the sand porter

Time at lpen the Waren Contoues

Plate"

fa Recone to literhine Duele

Cast deines nach tl in the freilis

seitio(18619117e

10116.1

TEES: 210512594

Hier conte en do entrad

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 23

---

## Page 24

menantin to Racked Didnt

desent to ropes mail

Is Rankins regist, telen

23,1964. Rocco thematite:

Commiss

by paragraph a Ce abne-spread

Februay 1a liter & t come.

The mated

waite tha pros the to the

07 I the items are qnew substan

two into Welive eithe

parole.

the materie in substar "

to the Common in spon ete

enlis leven the don, not?

§Racismen SMarch 64, 761A 579-2501

On Man 13,1964 tea belli

9 the Wane Command it e

HH 53080

DocId:32271364 Page 24

---

## Page 25

mfads.ne

ned rentz te teesuaron sar

Senes et wnyely t lzena

The rend entecats tt t Commiso

Weir asthe Mach is maetls preiet

Inacno to lie Serist Seretace

brateras. Prttin.i ToNeln)

dandiz nitis cee A aomaro piee

The crimiacin coith 0 p0-12p

Lad spot Scmannei r

allintectin you opaleaeo

ammcnicatins

singod iat i ennere no ilei s

will abes affrnd menbe go

stf wnke

eppertamits toreon te aetreat iin

ta the pirsip

walia complate. "

(Rankin letteret Mare 16196448)

Ponkin finther indicats that ta

same procedu n to le Kollrie,

regandrig aing matlendo tti thi pod-

ooin , the Cit pren to Twvembe

22, 1963 which Law not yet bee

puniates becaued dt n os

dencatie onie ard netho de,

ERankin Ketter df Mark i6, 1 3]

Pelm nopondes to pantein

MANATASEDDPY

1554,6D631* DDP4SSS,EREN

tww.sepa.atecommeinceacom.

CB631 pivedes the Coiniooi,

HH 53080. DocId:32271364 Page 25

---

## Page 26

with acopy the 0806910,1203

' dements to Slate State opt

Sauda bideo a the pre

finthe dealed the m B5a0923, 1964,

Dowrald they checking the pot resig

23, 1963.

22, 1963 unrelie follo, the

Sort Embass dig Octobe

Nivenes 1963. Parptin130

cable, not weing senatie arnes

and meth wee attact EDi.

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 26

---

## Page 27

меза закат цара і

paste

71k3e3 dementein

teene#91 4556-5219606n

vole baas

Begin 1/ 606900 unap 5/26

also findent, t.

this naslvestel.

saliti lanet

comel colation

contestoop

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364

Page

27

---

## Page 28

On Manch 26, Welleon Coltmo.en

wnttetna.rpondseraoo...cnd

TMCIAdeTol.an.on

CCAElECEEN

Toliner Radiscn mioe

fnc the dl oie rie n tinn , te

S lenegic thteite ng Dourad.

ca me

ingiiens

16,1964 and Shope trat ite

cmplettanzir will guie us

the asditimal isfirsatin de e-

cilen ta itent miti sitisa

ao you knonw, we ae sill

guaite Dourll teon

afte the asorocnntin, d

CIA is M ttanourchente

CIA intentoto zede cgaiato

the urgerg'

wene ifemnese, and agena, hapur

centatios, Siamull Stan gor

Kendanemtt

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 28

---

## Page 29

in Pangly, reignita.

he need Dison fell ite

That One did contren Theat

materias faint fren to

Is the

to be ter HaiDas ald and the

SOCIA.

St noted that the menage

peder the wan Concorn.

March 24,1961,

2) St as rewed the 0Et1o

1968 cable form cA's TRea

He soneded the Ost,0, 1965

se abs prayan idea.

HH 53080 DocId:32271364 Page 29

---

## Page 30

negotia, ?

Datable if c tup?

ten mite that Presi piral

databa sugare Due deat

Thes, be

the materia, phs to graph

review CD's 6314674 to determine

exactlywhatcontent.of cables

was

HH 53080

DocId: 32271364

Page

30

---

