# docid-32335382

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90123-10048

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-12262-23

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/16/1951

• PAGES:

14.

SUBJECTS :

ETHEL MARGARITE BAKER

PAUL M. RAIGORODSKY

- DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

t.

v9.1

HW 54462 DocId:32335382 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-X3

(1-10-49)1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

THIS CASE ORICINATED AT SAN ANTONIO

SA

FILE NO. 100-4329

wJ

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WEEN 1/6/38, 59% y/20 MADE

SAN ANTONIO, TEAS

M/161131

REPORT MADE BY

CHAISTOPHER C. ISBELL

3/6;4/25;5/10,12,

TITLE

Mrs. ETHUL MARGARITE

Вікші,

22/51

CHARACTER OF CASE

Was: Mrs. Allen R. Baker, Ethel Margarite.

SECURITY MATTER - C

McCaleb, Mrs. Ethal Margarite faigorodsky, Mrs

Pavl wark Rai görodsky,

Rita-

ALL

INFORMATION CONTAINED

NOPSIS OF FACTS:

HEREIN AS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2-4-95 BY 572

Informants advise Subject was member of and active in city

branch of Conmunist Party in Austin, Texas; associated with

known comunists and donated to State Headquarters fund of.

Communist Party during the jeriod 1943-45. Subsequently a

j.a.

marty of Texas.

member of PiPA of Texas, a front organization for Cormunist

Subject presently resides RFD, Kerrville,

Texas, and acquaintance believes Subject may be presently

913

writing for Communist magazine under assumed name,

Results

of Subject's recent correspondence and leads set forth,

10

Several acquaintances advise Subject a neurotic and possibly

insane...

One acquaintaice stated Subject is armed, and

believed to be dangerous..

Description included.

-P-

NEERSACION CONTAT NED

(L0)

DETAILS:

EXC

At Kerrville, Texas:

ERWISE

Confidential Infornant Sa I-1, of known reliability, advised as

FunVeil Bukuti, a former Texas state official at Austin,

Texas, now jeceased, in year 1944 or 1945 showed Informant T-l a list of

-persons who had attended a Communist Party meeting in Houston, Texas.

Among the list was the name of RITA RAIGORODSKY and the make and license

number of her car was set forth in the data secured by BAKER.

Mrs. BaKuR informed I-l that she was going with a liberal

Newspaperman in Dallas, Texas, but that this individual was definitely.

not a member of the Communist

Party. Mirs. BANbR told T-l that (she was in

love with this individual,

and was therefore giving up her peculiar ideas

ind was not soing to associate further with the

PPROVED. ANC

FORWARDER

tat.

110

VEGETARGE

AGENT

COPIES DESTROYED 5/20/59/257/0

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES RECORDED-4

INDEXED-4

Bureau (100 12262)

- Nor York

THIS REPORT

2

2

Oklahoma City

- Boston

JAIL 24

1951

Os,

SE 25

EX-130

2

- Norfolk

3 - San Antonio

PROPERTY OF FBI.-

This confidential report and its contents are loaned to you by the FBI and are no

U. S. GOVERNMENT FRI

to be distributed outside of agency to which loaned.

NW 54462 DooId: 32335382

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SAI

#100-4329

Will likewise determine the identity of GENOBENA BARBOZA who

received a letter postmarked February 20, 1951, which she received in care of

the Subject at Kerrville, Texas; and nich letter carried the return address

Rta. Calle Manuel Acuna Pte. 39, Piedras Negras, Coah,, Mexico, Ma del R. Mo

de BAKBOZA, and ascertain if this person has been engaged in any subversive

activities.

Will report results of credit and criminal check on BARBOZAO

AT KERRVILLEn TEXAS

will re-contact Dr. and Mrs: DWIGHT KNAPP for any additional

information they may have secured concerning Subjecte

AT SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS

Will determine the purpose of the letter sent to the Subject by

J: S. Imnigration and Naturalization Service, San Antonio, Texas; in a letter

postmarked March 9, 1951.

CONFIDENTINL INFORMANTS,

The confidential informants mentioned in the report of SA CHRISTo

PHUR C: ISBiLL dated July 11, 1951, at San Antonio, Texas, are identified

as follows:

SA T-1 IS SCOTT SCHREINER, Oner of Bluebonnet Hotel, Kerrille,

Texas, who requested that his identity be kept confidential.

SA T-2 is CNDI SA 411, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

SA T-3 is Dallas Informant 634, whose identity is known to the

Bureau, and relates to infornation set forth in the report of SA JOHN Fo HAY

dated June 29, 1944, at Dallas, entitied "RUTH ADELLA KOSNIG, INTERNAL SECURITY

SA T-4 13 Houston informant 188, whose identity is known to the

Bureau and relates to data set forth in the report of SA ARDIS Ce HOPPER,

dated October 8, 1946, at Houston, entitied "RUn ADELLA KOENIG, INTERNAL SECUR

ITY - Ci

SA I-5 is GOBER GIBSON, Postmaster, Kerrville, Texas, whose

identity is being kept confidential at his request.

SA T=6 1s Ho To PAUL, Superintendent of Mails, Post Office,

Kerrville, Texas, being maintained confidential at his request.

SA T-7 is a microphone surveillance of the PEPA meeting held at

che home of MAX StrAuss in Austin, Texas, Nov mber 13, 1944, as set forth in

the report of SA BENNETT ko HIRSH dated January 30, 1945, entitled "РЕРА

of Texas, INTERVAL, SECUITY = C", at San Antonio.

= 10 =

74 54462

DooId: 32335382

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SẢ #100-4329:

SA T-8 is CNDI 472 whose identity is known to the Bureau,

and SA I-9 is a letter from the District Intelligence Office of the 8th

Naval District, San Diego, California, to the FBI,, San Antonio, dated

April 12; 1945, as contained in SA File 100-4329.

REFERONCE:

Report of SA RICHARD I. JOHNSON dated May 6, 1945, at San Antonio:

Bureau letter to San Antonio dated 6/23/45.

..

NH 54462

DooId: 32335382

Page 4

---

