# docid-32320647

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10375-10305

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-1003

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SEE TITLE

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/19/1995

1

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32320647

150

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

-DATE: "11-14-2017

Unadian Embassa

Ambassade du Canada

The Canadian Security Intelligence Service)

Liaison Office

501 Pennsylvania Avenue NW

Washington DC

CONFIDENTIAL

October 19, 1995

Ref No 1304-95

TO : :

The Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: 'Brian C. RUMIG)

First Secretary

RE:

VISIT OF [CSIS PERSONNEL, TO FBI HO

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION / PRIVACY ACT SECTION

The following is further to previous discussions between myself and

Mr HARTINGH and MS KEELEY concerning the visit to your He by isIs?

personnel responsible for our Access

to Information requests.

On October 23, 1995, the following CSIS personnel will be present

in Washington for discussions focused on the JFK Task Force:

Mr wayne CARVER, Chief, Access to Information and Privacy Acts

Ms Barbara MERCIER, CSIS Legal Services

As discussed with Mr HARTINGH, I will accompany Mr CARVER and Ms

MERCIER to the FBI HQ for 1300 hours.

We are interested in discussing your ongoing program for dealing

with the requests for release of classified information pertaing to

the JFK assassination investigation.

As you are aware, some of the

information presently under review originated with our predecessor,

the RCMP Security Service, and we continue to maintain control over

its release.

+22+4-102 9205-1003

Please do not hesitate to contact me at (202) 682-7729 should you

require clarification or further information concerning

this

request. Thank you very much for your co-operation in this matter.

THIS DOCUMENT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE (CANADIAN SECURITY INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE., IT IS LOANED TO YOUR AGENCY IN CONFIDENCE FOR INTERNAL USE

ONLY. IF YOU ARE SUBJECT TO PUBLIC ACCESS TO INFORMATION LAWS WHICH

DO NOT ALLOW YOU TO PROTECT THIS INFORMATION FROM DISCLOSURE,

NOTIFY CSIS IMMEDIATELY AND RETURN THE DOCUMENT.

DocId: 32320647 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992 749 050

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONKHENT INFORKATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following.

explain this deletion (these deletions, there indicated,

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination"

Records Collection Act of 1992."

(1. Subsection lA (intelligence agent's identity)

[1 subsection

1B (intelligence source or method)

[] subsection 1c

(other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

subsection?

(living person who provided

confidential information)

11 subsection: lüvarranted invasion of privacy)

subsectiori

(cooperating individual or foreign

government,

currently requiring

protection;

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

( )

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination

investigation.

(] For your information:

The following number is to be used

for reference

regarding this page (these. pages) :

62C-4Q-1029205-1003

XXXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXXX

xxXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXXX

DocId: 32320647 Page 3

---

