# docid-32303613

## Page 1

Released under the Joln F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10284-10125

HQ

100-30067-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

CIMPERMAN, J. A.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

04/28/1947

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOP, TRA, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

• --

v9.1

DocId: 32303613

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

ALL INFORWATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIPIED LICEN

MASORE SHOWN OTHER ISE:

surada

kay 16, 1947

Date

EX-50 ' L

50007-38

1105+

Ifri

arlet Aput] 20, 1917. for your loronation lai

sopies of the

Callordes

4452s

E CA

callsoms

138 - 0.9

Security -C."

Tap an a i An on not sit Tan Phot 6, 103 mi

soansty - 0."

11 Intere

Her.

Tolson

15.

A.

Clogg.

Tamm

Nr. Clarin

Ladd

NicholS

1T.

tracy

Car gon

IT- Gurnea

Harbo

дяг .

Pennington

let. Quinn Tamm

4L6+

Rocu

Nease

M

AXILEDA

MAY 1 ° 1947m/0

трит

•FEDERAR BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

58 MN, 14

1APENT OF JUSTICE

DocId: 32303613

Page 2

1a!"

SECRET

дн.

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Report of SA Ice li. Fallai, dated Fobruary 26, 1946, at

san Francisco, Califoris, entitled "John Pittnan; Internal

securlty - c.'

Report of sa Wilhort Lerbort Kohe, dated September 30, 1946,

at San Francisco, Californda, entitled "John Filtran; Intarnal

Socurity - C."

Roport of 3d Wilbert l. Joho, dated Decenber 13, 1946, at

San Francisco, Califomia, ontitled "John Fittnan; Intornal

Security - C."

With reicrence to your inquiry as to the longth of Mtan's stay on

the Continent, you are advisod that the Bureau is taling steps us this tine to

ascertain this infomation and when it is obtainca jou will bo advised.

Enclosures Ba

DocId: 32303613

Page

3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

tie madau

United States Department of Justire

Heneral Bureau of Inuestigation

American Imbassy

London, England

April

28, 1947

годустокУ

WAR

ON BONDS

1 STAMPS

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILE NO.

ATTENCION: SIS EUROPEAN DESK

AIL INFOR MOTON CONTATITU

Director, FBI

Lashington, D. C. SON OilaWISE.

Re:

VIA AIR POUCH

9-2394

Massie:

Podlassify ou: 00%3

JOEN PITMAN

SECURITY MATTER = C

Dear Sir:

Mir. G.?. Wethered of MI-5 has asked that I obtain from

the Bureau any information they may have on an American journalist

named JOHN PITAN who is believed to be a correspondent of the

New York "Daily "orker," and who has recently been touring

Turope in that capacity: According to r. "ethered, he is said to

be a member of the American Communist Party and is

certainly in

touch with Communists in the United States. It is believed

he is editor of a Party paper in san Francisco.

He recently re-

turned to England from Poland and is believed to have been in

London during larch of this yoar (S)

Ir. "ethered also stated PITAN was said to be manifesting

considerable interest in the doings of an American official named

DALLAS. DALLAS is said to be a high executive on the economic

side in the American zone of fermany (S)

I would appreciate receiving

at the earliest possible

date any information the Bureau may have on subject PITAi and

his present work, and if known the length of his stay on the

Continent.

very truly yours,

J. A.

Cimperman,

Legal Attache.

JAC: MB

; i

DocId: 32303613

Page 4

---

