# docid-32404209

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10079

RECORD SERIES

: JEK'

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

• DATE

PAGES

MEDIA ADVISORY: NATIONAL ARCHIVES ANNOUNCES OPENING OF

MATERIALS FROM THE

08/17/1993

JEK ASSASSINATION RECORDS COLLECTION

SUBJECTS :

PRESS RELEASE

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

....

PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/30/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-16: F2: 2000.02.08.13:12:40:280054

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED •

104-10331-10079

NW 53217 DooId:32404209

Page 1

---

## Page 2

нi...

HUG 12 ' 55

TO :

CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICE

OF PUBLIC AND AGENCY

INFORMATION

FAX COVER PAGE

NAME: John Pereira

PHONE:

FAX NUMBER:

FROM:

DAVID CHRISTIAN,

MEDIA RELATIONS SPOKESMAN

37>57

FAX: 703/482-6790

PHONE: 703/482-7677

NUMBER OF PAGES: -

(INCLUDE COVER SHEET)

REMARKS: John,

Here is the Archives'

proposed press release.

They have sent it here for coordination and arked

That we not make any release of our own before

17 Ang. Look of to you? If we do issue a

press releare, we will share it with them before hard.

Regards,

MN 53217 DooId:32404209 Page 2

---

## Page 3

- -

r.1

8111/93

DRAFT

Revised as

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Auguet 17, 1983

MEDIA ADVISORY

Natienal Archives Announces Opening of Matedals from the

Eresident John E. Kennedy Assasaination, Recards Collection

On Monday, August 29, 1983, at 8:45 A.M., the National Archives will make available to the public additional

Pennsylvania Avenue, between 7th and gth Streets NW, Washington, D.C. Research cards are required for

viewing the maberials, application forns will be avallable beginning at 8:30 a.m. at Pennsylvania Avenue

Lobby.

This opening resutts from the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1832 (PL

102-526). The statute requires all Executive agencies, sovemment officas and other originating badies to

transmit records relatad to the assassination of President Kennedy to the National Archlves.

The recorda which will be made avallable were transterred to the National Archives pursuant to Sections

5(c)(1) and 5 (e)(1) of the statute which established a pariod of 300 days for Federal agencies to review

assassination reoords and provide for the transier of records released in full. Materlal from the tollowing

agencies will be avallable for research on August 23, 1993.

# Warren Commission records, previousy opened and newly released

* House Select Committas on Assassinations (approximately 800 boxes)

Central Intelligence Agensy, previousty opened and newly released

# Kennedy, Johnson and Ford Presidantial libraries, previously Copened and

nawty released, Including records from the Rocksteller Commission

« Rosards of other agencies

National Archives clean-search room rules do not allow personal proporty, la, notebooks, brietcases, purses

or fountain pans, in the research roams. Dabli cards can be purchased for the photocopying machines.

ELECTRONIC MEDIA AND PHOTOGRAPHERS: Fllming will be allowed in the research room until 12 p.m

NO ARTIFICIAL LIGHT. NO INTERVIEWS ALLOWED IN THE RESEARCH ROOM.

******

For additional PRESS information, contact the Publle Affairs Stuff at (202) 501-5525.

HK 53217 • DocId: 32404209

Page 3

---

