# docid-32281659

## Page 1

=

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Date: 11/01/95

Page:

9

AGENCY : DOS

RECORD NUMBER

: 1191000310059

RECORDS SERIES :

DS

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53244 Date:

06-09-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 39-141-046

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DDP

TO : CHIEF, USSS

TITLE :

MEMORANDUM

PAATE : 04/12/66

SUBJECIS:

KENNEDY, JACQUELINE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

LASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/05/94

OPENING CRITERIA:

CIA REVIEW

COMMENTS:

CIA DOCUMENTS release with redactions

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZEN

кр '5р

exemptie

[R] - ITEM RESTRICTED

The Departmani of Suite releases this document

in partand postpones pelease of portion(s) off

inder the provisions of the JFK Assassinatior

Records Collection Acrot 1992 (PL 102-526)

Reviewed of 3/5/94

Portion(s) Postponed Under

HH 53244 DocId: 32281659

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

12 APR 1966

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT

Chief

United Stetes Secret Service

Deputy Director for Plans

Political Situation in Madrid and Seville as it

my affect the visit of Mrs. John I. Kennedy and

Children

Our field representatives in coordination with Ambassador Duke

have forarded the following comments apropos of your query of

28 Narch.

"There is no foreseeable feature in the current

political situation in either Medrid or Seville wich

could prove to be a physical threat to Mes. Kennedy.

She is probably the most popular living Americen in the

eyes of the Spanish public.

The Spanish government will

be most anxious to surround her visit with favorable

publicity.

She will in all probability encounter very

favorable but perhays overenthusiastic publie receptions

and police protections.

"Despite its unofficial nature, this visit may be

interpreted by those in opposition to the Spanish regime

as & measure of tacit support to the regime and their

corments to this effect to foreign newsmen may result in

unfavorable wire service dispatches. There is a remote

possibility that student or crackpot elements way attent

to use the presence of Mrs. Kennedy to generate anti-American

attitudes on Vietnam or on the subject of the lost H-Bono.

Efforts of this type would not be expected to receive mass

support.*

CSCI-316/01769-66

ce:

Department of State

Chitt. WakeKille

Bew tin

4114/6

APR 2 2 1968

RESEARCH & FIE

STORON

DUNNIDEN

174 53244

DooId:32281659

Page 2

---

