# docid-32172043

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10174-10362

RECORD_SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 105-15823-367A

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

NORTH. SAMUEL W. JR.

SAC. LA

DATE: 04/09/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

LANE, MARK, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

09/24/1996

STATUS

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

• UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025 DocId: 32172043

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TIONAL FORMAN

010-104-01

UNITED STATES GOV

Memorandum

MENT:

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

DATE

SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-65476)

SA SAMUEL W. NORTE, OR

MARK LANE

SM-C

4/9/64

SOURCE

SIDNEY

SMITH

WATTS, panel

SOUrCO

who has

furnished

reliable

Information

in the past

and whose

Identity

should be

concealed

ACTIVITY

neic

at the

Embassy, Aud:

LA under auspices

of the Citizens

Committee of

Inquiry

RECEIVED

4/1/64

AGENT LOCATION

Writer 134-2436A-3

(WR)

Informantis letter set out verbatim is as follows:

*2371 Knoville Ave.

Long Beach California

March 30g/1964

"Dear Mr. NORTH:

NH 53025

the main speaker:

Meeting held under the auspices of

Citizens Committee of Inquiry.

"Tokets were sold ($1: 50) In front lobby of auditorium.

The enclosed piece of literature was given to me on sidewalk. at:

entrance of auditoriun (ilterature by ALLEN NOONAN)

MR. NOONAN

was connected with the Long Beach Peace Information Center and

an aware of some of his local activities

134-2436A-34

105-15823

SWN/mte

(3)

185 15823 23610

(SA MATES)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED SEARCHED:

SERIAL ED mCFILED A

OSWALD

HEREIN IS

NGLASSIFIED

LOS ANGELES

Read by:

• DocId:32172043

. Page. 2

---

## Page 3

LA 100-65476

The meeting didnt break up till around eleven o'clock

and I'm in a hurry to get a few hours sleep before going to

work so please excuse the slopynesst- you gave me the impression

you were anxious to hear from me as soon as possible.

"The best of luck to and hope what 11ttle I have

contributed here will be of some heip.

"sincerely,

"S. SWATTS"

ACTION:

The plece of iiterature mentioned by Swimt is of ho

value and

does not warrant channelizing, therefore, it lo being

destroyed.

All necessary action in connection with this memo has

been taken by the

writer

TINDEX,

"CINTZENS CONTINE OF INQUIRY"

ALLEN NOONAN

LONG BEACH PEACE INFORVATION CENTER

DICK WEST, Negro

RAVEIL KATERSBURG

RAVEL KATERSBURG

RAVEIL KATESBURG,

RAVEL, KATESBURG

JACK AXEN

DAVE AXEL

314

Doo

2043.

---

