# docid-32325387

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-90035-10284

'RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

122-2424-31

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 12/24/1958

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/26/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

RPT

DocId: 32325387

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Report Forio

FD-263 (5-12-557

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW YORK

Offico of Origin

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

ROBERT BENJAMIN BAKER; ET AL

BEC 2 4 1958

Investigative Period

12/15/58

Report made by

ALLAN R. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS

ACT, 1947 (IM)

Typed By:

rem

REFERENCE

ADMINISTRATIVE

Pittsburgh airtel to New York, 12/9/58 (Interoffice).

New York airtel to Bureau and Pittsburgh, 12/11/58.

-RUC-

It may be noted that HUGH SHERIDAN iS a PCI of

the New York Office.

Approved

Copies made:/

2

- Bureau (122-2424)

3 - Pittsburgh (122-97

(1-USA, Pittsburgh

1 - New York (122-684)

T061

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

12211/84=31

• DEC. 811958

REC. 93

11Ns 0W.20

VINE DIA

BI

1/5759

206

60 JAN 6

1959

Property of FBI. - This report is loaned to you

by the FBI, and

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 o344750

solo l 20e l contente are lo do storin 3 ° it a road.

DocId: 32325387

Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John E. Kennedy ASSasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-201 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Title:

SA ALLAN R. O'BRIEN

DEC 2 A 1958

NY 122-684; Buffle 122-2424

ROBERT BENJAMIN BAKER; ET AL

Office:

NEW YORK

Character:

Synopsis:

LABOR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS ACT, 1947 (IM)

HUGH SHERIDAN, Chairman, New York City Trucking Authority,

advised he has known EDWARD WEINHEIMER for approximately

30 years.

He said WEINHEIMER was a "gypsy

, one

who forced truck drivers entering the city to hire him for

a day's pay and who disappeared when paid after the first

stop.

WEINHEIMER represented self to SHERIDAN as labor

manager for Exhibitors Service Company and asked SHERIDAN's

help in labor difficulty between GEORGE CALLAHAN, JR. and

IBT locals in McKees Rocks, Pa. Sheridan advised

WEINHEIMER was considered a trouble maker by truck

operators and, because of his background, SHERIDAN did nothing

in his behalf although saying he would see what he could

do for CALLAHAN.

SHERIDAN said WEINHEIMER, in his opinion,

was a labor racketeer, acting on his own who might obtain

favorable settlements through payoffs to union officials,

and did not have sufficient background in labor-management

relations to deal on a legitimate basis.

SHERIDAN could

not substantiate his opinion by citing actual ineidents.

- RUC -

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It is the property of the FBl, and is a loan to your agency;

it and /or its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency. 003210975

DocId: 32325387

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2TU7 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

,FD-302 (Rey, 12-20-57)

-FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATON

INTERVIEW REPORT

12/22/58

Date

HUGH SHERIDAN, Chairman of the New York City Trucking

Authority (Authority), 141 Broadway, New York City, residence

72-48 June Street,.

Forest Hills, New York, stated that the

New York City Trucking Authority is an organization which was

voluntarily formed by truck operators and unions in the truck-

ing field located in the New York Metropolitan area.

The

funetion of the Authority Is to straighten out difficulties

open the the

and one-third by the unions.

He added that the principal union

In the Authority is Local 807, International Brotherhood of

Teamsters (IBT).

SHERIDAN advised he has known EDWARD WEINHEIVER for

approximately 30 years.

He said WEINHEIMER was a member, but

never an officer; of Local 807, IBT.

SHERIDAN stated that

prior to his becoming chairman of the Authority, and when he

was operating his own trucking business, WEINHEIMER first came

attention as a

"gypsy chaser."

SHERIDAN said a "gypsy

chaser" is a term used in trucking circles to describe a union

loader: (unloader) or driver who jumps up on a rig entering

the city and tells the driver that he will be his helper for the

day for a day's pay. The driver is told at the time that he

will not be able to unload unless he has a union man aboard.

SHERIDAN stated that it was the practice of the "gypsy

chasers" to demand their pay before allowing the drivers to

unload and then to disappear after the driver!s first unloading

stop.:

They then returned to the outskirts of the city and

repeated the operation with other drivers. In the case of

WEINHEIMER, he would do this three and sometimes four times in

outa co tha

a day.

Interview with

HUGH SHERIDAN

File #

122-684

12/15/58

_ at -

141 Broadway, NYC

_ Date dictated

12/16/58

by Special Agent ALLAN R. O' BRIEN:RCM

Prepery FCh ons repore is loaned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the

.= 2 -

d0032-10584

DocId: 32325387 Page 1

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (1T USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 122-684

According to SHERIDAN, WEINHEIMER was a ringleader

of a group of

"gypsy chasers,

whose activities were

temporarily stopped when they were indicted on federal anti-

trust and anti-racketeering charges and were found guilty in

District Court.

He said the conviction was reversed by the

Court of Appeals and the reversal

was upheld by the Supreme

Court.

SHERIDAN advised that WEINHEIMER was considered a

trouble maker by truck owners and an individual who was always

looking to make a "soft buck" in any way he could.

SHERIDAN

described WEINHEIMER as one who worked as an individual, as

opposed to one who was part of a group.

He said that in'his

opinion WEINHEIMER could be described as an individual labor

racketeer who would readily make payoffs to union officials

In order to gain benefits for a company which engaged his

services.

SHERIDAN said he could not cite any instances

which would involve WEINHEIVER in labor racketeering matters

but his connection with Exhibitors Service Company and

GEORGE. CALLAHAN, JR., appeared

to him to fall within that.

category because of

WEINHEIMER's background.

SHERIDAN advised that on May 10, 1957, WEINHEIMER

Introauced CALLAHAN to him in the offices of the Authority.

According to SHERIDAN, both WEINHEIMER and CALLAHAN Indicated

to him, by their statements and actions, that WEINHEIMER was

representing. Exhibitors Service Company as a labor manager or

consultant.

SHERIDAN said that WEINHEIMER told him that CALLAHAN

was having certain difficulties with IBT locals covering his

area in McKees Rocks, Pennsylvania, and asked SHERIDAN if he

would help to straighten out the matter. According to SHERIDAN,

WEINHEIMER and CALLAHAN told him that Exhibitors Service

Company was primarily engaged in transporting film and had a

labor contract with one IBT local covering this operation.

However, CALLAHAN said he could not load general freight on

his trucks, using the union personnel who loaded film,

but

was being required to engage loaders fromanother IBT Local

üo handle the general freight. WEINHEIMER and CALLAHAN

-3-

0d0032-10584

DocId: 32325387

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

DATE : 11-14-2017

NY 122-684

said it was unprofitable to have to engage separate loaders

to handle film and general freight and asked SHERIDAN 1f he

could help them with the unions.

SHERIDAN said he told WEINHEIVER and CALLAHAN he

would see what he could do for them, but he said he had no

use for WEINHEIMER and he therefore had no intention of doing

anything for CALLAHAN and he did nothing wha soever in their

behalf.

SHERIDAN said he believed that WEINHEIVER brought

CALLAHAN to see him to impress CALLAHAN and he believed that

WEINHEIMER had sold himself to CALLAHAN on the basis of his

connections in the labor union field.

According to SHERIDAN,

WEINHEINER had never contacted him before this meeting with

CALLAHAN and he has not done so since.

SHERIDAN said he has no information concerning the

activities of WEINHEIMER over the past several years and he

was surprised to see WEINHEIMER cast in the roll of a labor

manager or consultant.

WEINHEIMER did not have a sufficient background in the

labor-management relations field to qualify himself for his

alleged position with CALLAHANIor to deal with labor matters on

a legitimate basis.

He added that it was also his opinion

that any benefits or favorable settlements WEINHEIMER

effected for CALLAHAN, would in most instances be gained

through the medium of

payoffs to union officials but he could

not substantiate this opinion by citing actual incidents:

- RUC -

d0082-10581

DocId: 32325387

Page 6

---

