# docid-32301211

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10046

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-267

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/18/1962

12

GM, SMO, BKG, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ACT, BUSS, MEETING,.

TRA, MM, FL, LV GAMBLING CASINOS, ARRESTED

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 45852 DocId: 32301211 Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

PG 92-236

INFORMANTS

The I-symbols utilized in this report will be the same,

where applicable,

as those used in reports back to,

and including, that of 7/28/61:

PG I-1 is former PG 545-0

PG T-2 is PG 612-C

PG T-3 1s PG 615-C

PG I-31 is PCI

I, who furnished information

to SA FRANK E.

ALLISON

PG T-35 is PCI

who furnished

information to

SAS DONALD G. FISCHER and FRANK E. ALLISON.

PG I-39 is PG 657-C-TE

OTHER 4

Pittsburgh,

PG T-43 is PG 653-C-TE.

- B

-

COVER PAGE

HW

45852 DocId: 32301211 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-236

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

May 18, 1962

GABRIEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent

Thomas G. Forsyth, III, Pittsburgh, May 18, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants

used in referenced report:

PG T-I 1s a Westmoreland County, Pa., real estate

speculator who has been consulted by the

MANNARINOS in the past.

PG T-2 is a New Kensington, Pa:, numbers writer,

formerly connected with prostitution activities.

PG T-3 1s a physician, whose professional services have,

on occasion, been used by members of the

MANNARINO organization and who frequents

MANNARINO-controlled gambling and after-hours

establishments.

PG T-31 is a resident of the Turtle Creek Valley section

of Allegheny County, Pa., who is acquainted with

numerous gamblers.

G T-35 is an individual who has worked in number:

acket set-ups in Westmoreland County an

Allegheny County, both Pennsylvania.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa,, gambler and club operator.

NW 45852 DocId: 32301211 Page 3

---

