# docid-32294419

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10213-10195

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1318

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP •

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/30/1968

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, LCN MEMBER, SUR, NUMEROUS ARRESTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294419

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

HOLEs-36 (ReV.

eV. 1-22-641-11-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

10/30/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM: SAC,

TAMPA (92-1)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,_

JR., AKA;

(00: MM)

Appro

DocId: 32294419

REC

Re Bureau letter to Tampa 10/28/68.

JOHN WILLIAM

STALEY A JOHN STALY, is a white male, bornnoctober

impersonation of police officer, forgery and display

of deadly weapon.

STALEY according to a long-time

associate, he is an

alcoholic, extremely emotionally

unstable and is believed to be mentally incompetent.

During March of 1963, STALEY was interviewed by

Bureau agents concerning his possible association withh

FRANK DIECIDUE, LN member, associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

and now missing LoU BraDY.

unable to furnish any pertinent information and again

during January of 1965 STALEY was recontacted at

his request and on this occasion claimed he had not

seen SANTO in two years and wouldn't know him if he

saw him. STALEY did claim an association with SANTOS

brother, FANO through frequenting the Dream Bar

in Tampa at which establishment FANO is employed

-as a bartender.

EX 106:

3010247181-1318

In July of 1965,

STA

LEy furn

lished Tampa

Office and OSI, MacDill with unfounded and uncorroborated

information concerning an individual allegedly using

STALEY'S Air Force Base pass. In addition, according

to OSI, StALeY furnished unfounded intormation concerning

gold smuggling which on investigation by secret service

Bureund to have no veracity.

37.1771

3-79 32-263)

p1-M1am1 (92-88)

= NOV I

1950

1-137

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 644 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 92-1

Since this time STALEY has on several

occasions telephonically contacted SAC in the

SAC'S residence and on most occasions has been

in an intoxicated condition at the time and in August

of 1968 telephonically contacted the Bureau and at

this time admitted was drunk,at the time of contact.

For the above reasons, Tampa does not

recommend any contact with STALEY however wire be

alert for any overture made by STALEY towards

setting up a potential meeting with TRAFFICANTE

It is noted that Tampa is not

in receipt

of Miami's airtel dated October 25,

1968

Where in

OAKLEY GRANT SMITH, JR.

apparently makes some

overture toward a possible meeting between TRAFFICANTE

and the fBi.

As Miami is aware TRAFFICANTE waS

Tampa, Florida on October

10, 1968, at which time

while at the Columbia Restaurant Coffee Shop was

approached by JIMMY LONGo and that LonGo advised

TRAFFICANTE

Of SA AMBLER'S presence in another

portion of the coffee shop at which time TRAFFICANTE

remarked to the effect that he almost wished sA

AMBLER would join him at his table.

Miami

may wish to furnish Tampa with a copy of Miami

airtel 10/25/68 as Tampa,

continueS e0/26h9ae Ta tremendous into 1st en TRATFICANTE

and his associates, some of whom have been identified

as being LCN members, in the Tampa area and as the

Burea has pointed out,

Tampa has a continuing

substantial responsibility in the TRAFFICANTE investigation

and is most desirous of taking advantage of any

opportunity which would permit a meeting between TRAFICANTE

and the FBI.

On October 30

1968

records of Most Holy Names

Roman Catholic Church, 2316 East 7th Avenue, Tampa

reflect that SANTO TRAFFICANTE, born November 15, 1914

was baptized February 21,

1926 with Sponsors shown, as

DOMENICO ARCURI and FELICIA LONGO.

=20

DOOId: 32291419

Page"

3

---

