# docid-32332497

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90102-10144

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-217821-80

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/08/1973

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS:

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

TATE, TETUAL DOCUMENT

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, FD 376

v9.1

14 54460

DocId: 32332497

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

RAY'MAL EDITION

ARA'FPMA (41 CFR) 801-11.8

UNITED STAT: & VERNMENT

Memorandum

•TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-217821)

DATE: 11/8/73

dO JC, ITAMI (205-20203) (8)

SUBJECT.

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO

(REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORY)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(DR)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED #211326

IS - CUBA

DATE "/26/84

To was lotter it oolone dated brass is

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies of LHM dated and

captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to the following

Federal Agencies:

U.S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida

NISO, Charleston, south Carolina

109th MI Group, Miami, Florida

CIA, Miami, Florida

U.S. Coast Guard, Miami, Florida

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISICATOR AND/OR,

RELEAS

ARMATION

U.S. Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

U.S. Customs, Miami, Florida

KP11-19-97

INS, Miami, Florida

OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

SLD/KER

(JFK

117-98

INFORMANTS

TA T-I L8 AN 1337+853 105-217821-8

XO

MM T-2 18 MM 2960-C: / ST-112

7 NOV 13 1973

MM T-3 is MM 1550-KS.

LEAD

MIAMI

3

Bureau (Enc.

9)

(RH

(1 - Foreign Liaison Desk)

1 - Miami

RJD/jky

So Nur

by routing sip for

date 11/00/13

, O setton

Bey U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payrol Saving! Flan

5010-108-03

HH 54460 DooId:32332497 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF DUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAL DE IAVESTIGATIOS

due Reply, Please Refer 86

Pile No.

105-20202

Miami, Florida

November 8, 1973

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO

(REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORY)

(DR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Incident Involving Explosion

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

At Hotel Oasis, Avrainville, France, HERtly witunicolED witunisolrED*21326

August 2, 1973

- DATE"/26/84. BYSPBA/Ga

5-21-94

Sp 8 mAc/ISR

The Di 15 a Cuban exile, anti-CASTRO organization JFK

formed in Miami, Florida,

in about August, 1971.

It had abou

30 members and

JOSE ANTONIO CALATAYUD RIVERA is the Secretary-

General of the DR.

MM T-1, who is closely associated with the leadership

on September 21, 1973, advised that that day JOSE

ANTONIO, COLMENARES IZQUIERDO, formerly a member of the Military

said that RAMONKFONT was the person who

gave JUAN FELIPE DE-LAYCruZ the explosive which CRUZ took

to Spaly and later to/france *der to sabotage the Cuban

Embassy in paris:

/ COLMENARES said that FONT works directly with

ORLAND BOSCH AVILA and that plans for the sabotage gi the

Cuban Imbassy were worked out in the offices of MAX/LESNIK,

ELA

Director of "Replica", a Spanish language newspaper published

in Miami, Florida. COLMENARES further said that LESNIK donated

$4,000 to the DR for the expenses of this mission and that the

act of sabotage was planned without the knowledge of the

military leaders of the DR.

COLMENARES said that meetings were held by ANTONIO

VECTANA

ORLANDO BOSCH, ANTONIO CALATAYUD and MAX LESNIK prior

to this

attempt of, sabotage and these persons formulated the

plans for the sabotage.

COLMENARES said that because the Military Section

of the DR was not consulted he, COLMENARES, and other leading

members of the other organization resigned from the DR in protest.

2 4a1 a malta resid

• request

** 6013

DAS/M01

105-217821-80

KOLESURE

HH 54460 DocId:32332497 Page 3

---

