# docid-32330414

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90090-10077

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-84265-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO : DOJ/CRIM

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/02/1960

3

. JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32330414

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records' Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11711-2017

CONFID

IA L

RES

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ, EY AL.

ROLANDO MASTEREER ROJAS • VIOTIM

SEXIET

For ecample, during November, 1959, Ars, laaffe aduised

this Bureau that the

anti-Castro underground movement plonned to

k112 United States: Ambassador to Cube Bonsal and bonb the United

States

Embasay in Cuba.

She further couised that anti-castro elements

planned to undertake on invasion of Cuba from San Salvador Island in

the Bahamas on about November 15, 1059, under the leadershtp of a

british officer,

She cloined to have recetued the information con

cerning the assassination of Bonsal and the bombing of our Embassu

from on anti-Costro leader in Miami:

upon interuiew, this anti-

Costro leader denied any knowledge of such plans and ura:

• Taoffe

subsequently aunitted that she knew of no specific piot to kill Bonsal

or bomb the Enbassy and that this allegation was based entirely on her

own speculation. Concerning the alleged attack on Cuba from

san Salvador Island, Enquiries by British

there was no substance to such charged.

Suthorities tidicated

Lors. Taoffe has also been

contact with a number of ottee

Inited States

agencies, including the nepartment of state,

Central Intelligence Agenoy, the Inmigration and Naturalization

the pured or curan and the sudelines wranch a tie dir resenten

on occaston, she has tried to greate the impression that ahe to con

neoted with certuin United Statee agencies or is acting in thair behaly

and she is known to

have dracorted and miarepresented her contacts with

mited states officials.

for instance, urs. Taaffe told a Mank

businessman that she worked for the central Intelligence Agency and

had been on o middle Bast asoignment for that. Agency banceneraz

Intezligence Agency representative adaised that urs. Too fe wro not

connected with that Agency and choractertaed her as a "Mata Hart" ono

was making o general nuisance of herself and who was "going to run out

of agencies to contact:

on another occasion urs. raaffe claimed to

have been adulaed bu a state Deportment official concerning certain

phases of untted States policy towarda Cuba.

This official subsequently

donted he furntshed any such information to her

Bracke

149 L0

Mrs,

raaffels motives in volunteering

information

• Co

the

mI and other United States agencies has not. been clear.

she claims

to be concerned about the

in Cuba and throughout

the coribbean area and to

solely out of patriotic reasona.

However,

Mrs. Toaffe is known to

have mining interests in Cube which are threatened by the Castro

regime and she appears to be an individual who revels in intrique and

who

seele to tdentify horself with prominent individuals and clandestine

intelligence

operattons

C.ON II

I A L

DocId: 32330414

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Bebeased under, the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Df 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

I A t

JUAN FERNANDEZ BE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ, EZ AL.

ROLANDO MASPERRER ROJAS - VICTIM

SCU

During recent monthe information hos been received prom

several sources pointing to the possibility that urs. Toffe moy be

se ruing

as on agent of the Coatro government.

In November, 1959, &

wicni source who has been closely associated with rooffe aduled that

he had learned that ahe had recelued $5,000 from o representative of

the cuban Government for information concerning the anti-castro

actiulties of a prominent Cuban bueinecanon. Another Government

agen ey in November, 1959, furnished information grom a source conc

eidered raltable to the

effeot that Mrs. Toaffe's hotel bille in

Havone were paid for by the ouban Government and thet she was sug-

pécted of acting ocoastonally or regularly as on agent for that

Government. Moreover, during December, 2959, a former offsetal ofV

the cuban National Police advised that during his easignment with:

the Cubon National Poltee he learned thet Mra. Toaffe wos serving as

an informant for the castro regime, hed provided information to cuban

offiotale concerning the dctivitiea of Rolando Maaferrer (prominent

anti-Castro leader in Miant), and had been pald a sum in excess of

$2,000 for this information.

The information from this source should

be treated in strict confidence aince is disclosure

the moreto the surenes miles mete been

representat sueen Havond, and PSI Romulo Rene Del Rey Sori - 65-59364

serials 22 posed on the information aummarined in the foregoing

poragraph, this bureau ho inttiated on inventigation of Mra.

to determine if she has aoted in the mited states on behalf of the

Cuban Government and is therefore subjeet to the proutions of the

Foreign Agents Regiatration Act of 1938, as amended.

NOTE ON YELLOW:

Classified "Confidetial" since data from state Department

in next-to-last paragraph was so classified.

Also, disclosure

data in same paragraph from PSI Sori could result in compromising

source who is furnishing continuing information relative to the

national defense.

Tany?

- 9

CO#PIDIAI

STORET

DocId: 32330414 Page 3

---

