# docid-32290238

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10014

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-257

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/10/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32290238

Page 1

264

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVES

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL1 0 1961 M

TELETYPE

Mr.

Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. ConradA

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

URGENT

7-10-61

8-41 PM CLM

Mr. Sullivan

Mx. Tavel

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 2P

Miss Gandy-

/GUS ALEX, AKA., AR, DAILY SUMMARY. CG. SIX FOUR FOUR

THREE DASH

RECENTLY ADVISED THAT DR: ROSS MILLER, IN CHARGE OF NORTHWESTERN

UNIVERSITY AT EVANSTON, ILLO, IS A VERY GOOD FRIEND. OF THE SUBJECT

AND ROÇCO FISCHETTI, CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM. HE STATED THAT FISCHETTI

OWNS A PARCEL OF PROPERTY LOCATED ON THE NORTHWEST SIDE OF CHICAGO

AND THAT SEVERAL YEARS AGO FISCHETTI SOLD OUT TO NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY

AT THE PRICE HE PAID FOR THE PROPERTY YEARS BEFORE. THIS PROPERTY

WAS SOLD AT THE LOW PRICE IN ORDER TO DO A FAVOR FOR DR. MILLER AND

THE UNIVERSITY. INFORMANT STATED THAT FISCHETTI OWNS MUCH OF THE

PROPERTY WHICH IS LOCATED NEAR THE NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY CAMPUS

AND MAY HAVE SOLD THE PROPERTY TO THE UNIVERSITY IN THE MAIDEN NAME

OF HIS WIFE. HE STATED THAT THE PROPERTY AT THAT TIME WAS VACANT AND

THE SALE TOOK PALCE THREE OR FOUR YEARS AGO. INFORMANT STATED THAT.

THIS INFORMATION CAME FROM LESTER KRUSE, A CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF •

SUBJECT ALEX, AND ALEX TOLD HIM THAI FISCHETTI IS, A VERY WEALTHY MAN

BECAUSE OF THE VALUABLE PROPERTY HE OUNS NEAR NOGTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY.

DR. MILLER,: PRESIDENT OF NORTHWESTERN UNIV., ADVISED BUREAU AGENTS

THAT HE WAS NOT ACQUAINTED PERSONALLY WITH

THE SUBJECT OR FISCHETTI.

HE STATED ITHAN APPROXIMATELY THREE YEARS AGO

-FRATERNITY ATTEMPTED

TO BUY PROPERTY IN

WHICH FISCHETTI

END PAGE ONE

:,n:

113,

50JUL 1 3 1968 >5

BESIDENAL LAFTER A SIX THOUSAND

19.61

DocId: 32290238 Page 2

---

