# docid-32326715

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleotion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90056-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-9

Document Information :

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SF

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/16/1976

3

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

T'T

y9.1

DocId: 32326715

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ween terri

AssoC.

Dir.

FEULKAL BUNEAU UF ANVESIIGASION

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.-

COMERA CATIONS SECTION

Dep.-A.D.-Iny. -

SF NR 345

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. ---

NR D17 SF CODE

JUL 1G 17C

Dxt. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

6:05 PM NITEL JULY 16,

1976,

MaLE

Ident.

ELYPE

Inspection

Intell.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

Laboratory

Legal Coun

FROM:

SAC,

SAN

FRANCISCO (183-114) (P)

Plan. & Eval

Rec. Mamt.

SALVATORE

AMARENA, AKASET AL, RICO, 0U: SF

Spec. Inv. V

Training

RE SAN FRANCISCO NITEL TO BUREAU, JULY 8, 1976.

mil

Telephone Rm

Director Sec'y

ON THE EVENING OF JULY 13, 1976, JIMMY FRAIIANNO, VISITED

1-1,20

AT SF 8677-PC'S APARIMENT AND STAYED UNTIL 10:45 A.M. ON JULY

14, 1976. ELECIRONIC SURVEILLANCE WAS INSTITUTED DURING THIS

VISIT AND THE HIGHLIGHIS OF INFORMATION OBTAINED ARE LISTED

BELOW:

FRATIANNO ADVISED PO THAT MIKE RIZZATELLI HAD FLOWN TO

SAN FRANCISCO THAT DAY ARRIVING ON IHE 6:30 P.M. FLIGHT.

RIZZATELLI WAS CURRENTLY WITH PHIL MAITA AT MAITA'S SAN MATEO

NIGHTCLUB, EASY STREEI, AND WAS PLANNING TO TAKE THE MIDNIGHT

FLIGHT TO LOS ANGELES.

EX-101

REC 68

183-737-4

FRATIANNO FURNISHED PC FINANCIAL INFORMATION REGARDING

EASY STREET AND STATED THAI LAST THURSDAY NIGHT MAITA TOOK

21 JUL 19 1976

IN $1,490 ON CHAMPAGNE ALONE. FRATIANNO STATED THAI MAITA

MADE $30Ö ON ADMISSION CHARGES TO EASY STREET AND ANOTHER

$200 FROM HIS PORNO BOOKSTORE NEXT TO EASY STREET.

FRATIANNO

ADVISED THAT MAITA AVERAGES $6,000 PER WEEK AT THE CLUB.

HE

PASECT

7-325

57 AUGZ 1976

fitt

DocId: 32326715 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 183-114

PAGE THREE

SPACE FOR MEDICAL AND DENTIST OFFICES WHICH WOULD SERVICE

UNION MEMBERS. HE STATES THAT RUDY THAM WOULD LEASE A

DISCOUNT STORE IN THE SAME BUILDING FOR UNION. MEMBERS.

FRATIANNO OFFERS PC A JOB AS THE MANAGER OF THE UNION DISCOUNT

DEPARTMENT STORE AND ADVISED THIS DEAL SHOULD BE CLOSED IN

9IO DAYS FRATIANNO ALSO STATES HE COULD OBTAIN CHEAP

CLOTHING FROM NEW YORK TO STOCK UNION DISCOUNT STORES.

FRATIANNO TALKED TO MIKE RIZZATELLI ON PHONE AND

TALKED ABOUT DEALING WITH AN UNSUB THAT OWNS FOUR MILLION

DOLLARS IN LOTS.

PC MENTIONED FORMER SAN FRANCISCO MAYOR ALIOTO: AND

FRATIANNO STATED THAT ALIOTO WOULD NOT TALK TO, HIM AND IS

"SCARED TO DEATH". PC ASKED IF IT WAS "BECAUSE OF THAT DEAL"

AND FRATIANNO ACKNOWLEDGED.

FRATIANNO ALSO TALKS ABOUT A BARBRA STREISAND PORNO-

GRAPHIC MOVIE WHICH STREISAND ALLEGEDLY MADE PRIOR TO BE-

COMING A STAR. FRATIANNO STATED THAT MAITA OBIAINED 100

COPIES OF THE MOVIE.

SAN FRANCISCO WILL CONTINUE TO MONITOR ACTIVITIES OF

FRATIANNO AND ASSOCIATES.

END

DocId: 32326715

Page 3

---

