# docid-32305938

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10289-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4225-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

JFC, THP, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified'

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45754 DocId: 32305938

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

7/8/59

Transmit the following in

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

ATRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-632)

TOSEYH

SUBJECT:

U.S. vs-BONANNO; ET AL;

Southern District of New York

Criminal 159-35

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

ReBuairtel to NY, 7/6/59, and Buairtel to Nk and NY,

7/6/59, both captioned as above.

Enclosed herewith are five copies of letterhead memoranda

reflecting interviews conducted at Mohawk Airlines, NYC.

Regarding the dissemination of interviews received under.

conditions of confidence, the following is noted:

On 7/7/59, Lt. JOHN. THOMPSON, Central Intelligence Squad,

NYCPD, advised that the information he made available regarding the

interview ofl

by members of the 64th Det. Squad could

be disseminated to the Department only protecting his identity and

the identity,

of the Central Intelligence Squad as having made the

information available, and THOMPSON continued the identities of the

detectives conducting the interview should be concealed. It is noted

that the NYO does not possess the names of the interviewing detectives.

ROBERT F. MC GUINNESS, 63 Prospect Sto, White Plains, NY,

• Business Address Gramatan National Bank, Kraft Ave., Bronxville, NY,

advised on 7/8/59 that he had only been an employee of the NY Joint

Legislative Comm. on Government Operations, with no policy making

position. He said he made available results of hearings and checks

all un annes

- Bureau (Enclso 5)

dia chat 4910

- Now York (ON SURE

16C, 23-1225-34

AJAraja

JUL 9 1959

OTHER 4

EX-136

Sent

Approved:

6 8 JUL 27 1959

Per

gent in Charge

NW 45754 DocId: 32305938

Page 2

---

