# docid-32307226

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10291-10366

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

43-16409-3, 4, 5, 6, 1ST NR 6.

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act

of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:M 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CE

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/24/1968

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

WHI, ASSOC, SUSP, FORGERY, MIL PASS, THEFT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, 3 MEMO, 4 LTR, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HH 53074

2

DocId: 32307226

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

SUBJECT:

, OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR, -11.6 c

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (43-16409)

SAC, CHARLOTTE (43-814) (C)

LESLIE

ATKINSON, aka; ETAL

MISCELLANEOUS - FALSELY MAKING

OR FORGING NAVAL, MILITARY, OR

OFFICIAL PASS

• DATE:

8/30/68

Re Bureau letter to Charlotte 7/18/68 enclosing a

CID investigative report.

The CID report was reviewed and, based on the infor-

mation contained therein, it is apparent the information

provided by CE 2243-C was valuable to CID in their investigation.

The CID investigation is closed with one conviction, a fine, and

a recovery of $27,578.35. The amount stolen from the U.S.

Government could

not be determined.

Since the information furnished by the FBI from the

informant is not reflected in detail in the report, its value

cannot be

precisely determined; however, it can be assumed that

informant's information was extremely valuable since it was both

timely and accurate and identified at least two of the subjects

and the base of operation of the illegal activity.

On 8/12/68, CE 2243-C was recontacted concerning this

matter, and he advised he could not provide any additional

pertinent information concerning it.

In view of the fact this illegal activity took place

outside the U.S. and the matter has been resolved by CID, this

case is being placed in a closed status as no additional

infor-

mation can be obtained.

1941

UNRECORDED

COPY FILED IN

_ Bureau

1 - Charlotte

MKG / jb

(3)

REG 2843-16409-

1968

Illes

SÉP 18

FROS

1968

2 SEP

SEP 1 8196871H

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NI'

NW 53074 DocId: 32307226

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

IT 19 FBITION

ÇSA FPME(41 CFR) 121-11.8

UNITED STATES

MOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (43-16409)

SAC, CHARLOTTE (43-814) (P)

DATE: 4/24/68

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE CA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, * 9-30-97

LESLIE ATKINSON, AKA

ET AL

MISCELLANEOUS - FALSELY MAKING OR

FORGING NAVAL, MILITARY OR OFFICIAL PASS

Re Charlotte airtels to Bureau dated 9/12/67 and

10/30/67, each with LHMs attached, and Bureau letter to

Charlotte dated 11/9/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies of an LHM

captioned as above.

Source in LHM is CE 2243-C who furnished information

to SA MARK K: GASS, JR: On 4/17/68.

The Bureau is requested to again contact the

Provost Marshal General inquiring as to the progress being

made in investigation concerning this matter or if

investigation is complete.

It is noted that informant is

of the opinion the United States Army in Vietnam has

concluded its investigation several months ago and that

the information provided by him was the basis for arrests

made. Future contacts with the informant would be more

profitable if this matter could be resolved and the informant

compensated for his services.

LEADS:

ALL INFORIATION CONTAINED

413-16409-3

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSILS-

CHARLOTTE:

49N53-21-9845668-50152

JFK)

10 APR 26 1968

AT GOLDSBORO

Will conduct credit and identification checks

concerning LESLIE ATKINSON.

Bureau (43-16409) (Enc 6)

4 - Charlotte (3 - 43-814)

(43-16409) ENCENT 10O,

ENCLOSURE

111!

(1 - 137-3261)

14 e

MKG : jW

(6)

CE

Germand Bein, OTent.

5/1/65091

15 FOR

AU3. DISOLANATION.

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010 - 108-01

NW 53074 DooId: 32307226

Page 3

---

## Page 4

--

----•

CE 43-814

AT HERTFORD, No C.

Will maintain contact with CE 2243-C concerning

this matter.

Na DE6L 0E 1021ICE

C S 10 1 08

1MAE210P.Г

HEREIAFN

2

04-19309

HH 53074

DocId: 32307226

Page 4

---

## Page 5

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Charlotte, North Carolina

April

24, 1968

LESLIE ATKINSON,

ALSO KNOWN AS IKE ATKINSON;

HERMAN JACKSON,

ALSO KNOWN AS JACK JACKSON;

UNKNOWN SUBJECT

ALSO KNOWN AS SMITTY;

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

ALSO KNOWN AS RED

MISCELLANEOUS - FALSELY MAKING OR

FORGING NAVAL, MILITARY OR OFFICIAL PASS

ALL INFORISATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UM

DATS 31-98915-68 540/151

(JFK)

Reference is made to memorandum at Charlotte, North

Carolina, dated October 30, 1967, captioned as above.

A confidential source, who has furnished reliable

information in the past and does not desire identity

that LESLIE ATKINSON

Source said that

ATKINSON has remained at Goldsboro, North

since he returned from Bangkok, Thailand, in

Carolin* 1967. ATKINSON does not intend to return to

Thailand since be believes he will be arrested by authorities

in that country.

Source advised he was informed by ATKINSON

that the club which was the front for the illegal activities

is still in operation but its management is no longer making

or using military identification cards for the purpose of

obtaining money orders.

Source advised that several arrests were made in

Thailand and that this information was highly publicized in

the United States Army newspaper in that country.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS NEITHER

RECOMMENDATIONS NOR CONCLUSIONS OF

THE FBI. IT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE

FBI AND IS LOANED TO YOUR AGENCY;

IT AND ITS CONTENTS ARE NOT TO BE

DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE YOUR AGENCY.

43-16407

ENCLOSURE

NW 53074 DooId: 32307226 Page 5

---

## Page 6

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Charlotte: 24, 1968

North Carolina

April

LESLIE ATKINSON,

ALSO KNOWN AS IKE ATKINSON;

HERMAN JACKSON,

ALSO KNOWN AS JACK JACKSON ALL INFOR:

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

ALSO KNOWN AS SMITTY;

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

ALSO KNOWN AS RED

CONTAINED

DATE 3-21-98 BY 5068 SUD /ASR

(JFK)

MISCELLANEOUS FALSELY MAKING OR

FORGING AVAL, MILITARY OR OLICIAL PASS

Reference is made to memorandum at Charlotte, North

Carolina, dated October 30, 1967, captioned as above.

A confidential source, who has furnished reliable

information in the past and does not desire identity

divulged; advised on April 17; 1968, that LESLIE ATKINSON

was in Goldsboro, North Carolina, during the previous week.

Source said that

Thailand since he believes he will be arrested by authorities

in that country.

Source advised he was informed by ATKINSON

that the club which was the front for the illegal activities

is still in operation but its management is no longer making

or using military

identification cards for the purpose of

obtaining money orders:

Source advised that several arrests were made in

Thailand and that this information was highly publicized in

the United States Ármy newspaper in that country.

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS NEITHER

RECOMMENDATIONS NOR CONCLUSIONS OF

THE FBI.

IT IS THE PROPERTY OF THE

FBI AND IS LOANED TO YOUR AGENCY;

IT AND ITS CONTENTS ARE NOT TO BE

DISTRIBUTED OUTSIDE YOUR AGENCY.

i??

3

HH

53074

DooId: 32307226

Page 6

---

