# docid-32298485

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10222-10261

HQ

9-37631-6TH NR 7, 7TH NR 7, 8TH NR 7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/21/1974

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

MAB, ASSOC, ACA, CUBAN EXILE LEADER, TORRIENTE,

JOSE ELIAS, THREATS, SUBV ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

COMMENTS :

INC 2 A/T

v9.1

14 54463

DocId: 32298485

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-22094

On 5/15/74, LESNICK advised that last

Sunday, 5/12/74, he received a threatening telephone

call from Spanish speaking male who said "This is the

Sertet. Army".

On 5/15/74, he received a zero letter

which followed another zero letter received a week

previously addressed to LESNICK and JULIO FERREIRO

MORA. LESNICK agreed to furnish both letters to

Miani. LESNICK named LUIS TORNES as a possible

suspect along with others. LESNICK volunteered that

he regaras ORLANDO BOSCH as a close friend. One

•% BOSCH'g co-defendants in a bombing case, JORGE

CUTIERREZ, Is employed by LESNICK.

4

On 5/16/74, MM 1550-KS, Who ig well

acquainted with LUIS TORNES and many Cuban activists

18 Miant area, advised that shortly after TORRIENTE's

assassination, TORNEs remarked that the atmosphere

was sipe for putting fear into a

"bunch of SoBs"

TORNES was publisher of "Impacto" newspaper, Miani,

which engaged in a feud with "Replica".

" Irapacco"

recently ceased publication when advertising was

withdrawn by an agency friendly to LESNICK.

TORNES,

according to MY 1550-Ks, is hostile to FUSTE, REYES,

ARTIME, HUERTAS, LESNICK, FERREIRO, and RAY.

His

attitude toward MORALES, VERGARA, and ESTEVEZ i&

unknown to KS•

TORNES' attitude varies toward PErUXERO

and PRIO, TORNES has a close contact, identity unknown,

In San Juan, Puerto Rico, who distributed Impacto.

MM 1550-KS said that TORNES has been involved in past

bombings and letters.

(u)

Provious investigation reflects that BOSCH!

has been involved in bombings and extortion.

Is alleged head "Accion Cubana" whichhas claimed

credit for package bombs this year. Accion Cubana

submerged from view 3/5/74, "Zero" surfaced 4/12/74.

6

NW 54463 DooId: 32298485 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-22094

Both have utilized techniques previously employed by

BOSCH prior to his December, 1968, conviction for ship

bombings, conspiracy, and extortion. TORRIENTE and

BOSCH have publicly denounced each other in the past.

MM 1550-KS has advised that ATON CONSTANZO

PALAU is rather illiterate and not Ilkely respongible

for written threats, although capable of oral threats

and violence. la (P)(u)

It appears unlikely that CONSTANZO would

place his owa name as the author of a threatening

letter.

Previous investigation of TORNES in 1970

reflects that JULIO ATON CONSTANZO alleged in November,

1969, that TORNES was responsible for placing two

small bombs at Station WOBA on 10/19/69 Information

was also received that TORNES alleged that a friend

of CONSTANC's was responsible for that bonbing.

In early December, 1969, CONSTANZO disappeared from

the Miami scene when he became a fugitive charged with

murder of ROBERTO GONZALEZ.

He returned several months

ago, as mentioned above and is free in Miami. l

Above information reflects the existence of

bad fealing between TORNES and CONSTANZO. It.

therefore,

appears logical that TORNsS, if he prepared

the

, "zero" letter, might place the name of CONSTANZO

as the author for reasons of revange.

Miami file reflected that TORMES was formerly

head of the Ejardito Secreto Anti C munista (ESA)

(Anti-Communist Secret Army) wich was allegedly

involved in bombings and other acts of terrorisn

several years ago.

NW 54463 DooId: 32298485 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-22094

CONFiOR

NTIA

Furnish Miami with xerox copies of "zero"

letters and envelopes for investigative purposes.

4

Identify, if possible, individual who was

in charge of distribution of "Impacto" for TORNES

1n Puerto Rico, XMM 1550-KS has advised that TORNES

diatributed abouc 15,000 copies of each issue in Puerto

angles on, ones la unsub. this case he may have

zero envelope and letter to a San Juai

contact for depositing in mails at San Juan.)

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

WiII. conduct appropriate investigation to

identify author of "zero" letters and will attempt to

obtain typewriting specimens of typewriters owned by

or available to logical suspects.

Wil]. furnish San Juan photos of ATON CONSTANZO

PALAU, LUIS HORNES, and ORLANDO BOSCH AUILA.

GONFOEATUAR

14 54463

DocId: 32298485

Page 4

---

