# docid-32324906

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90033-10050

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-75147-31-85

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NK

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/15/1948

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOHN MARTINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

9

DocId: 32324906

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NK 94-282

HOW: BE

Since Senator FARLEY is reported to have stock in the Atlantic

City Race Track, according to MY 1724, the conclusion reached by Centain

FARLal, his brother, may have some credence.. The anonymous caller told

Cantain InbY that & JON HARIINO was working for MIlITE and that VINCENI

and MICHLE MARTINO, John's cousins, did not want to be associated with

According to a news article in the Atlentic City Daily World of

February 24, 1948

and according to Nk 1724, IOUIS MILIIE was in Senator

FARLEY'S company at a party given by MIke MIoaI, vice president of the

Atlantic City Race Track Association.

In connection with VIND IRaTNO mentioned above, 1724 advised

that VIICE was an attorney for a health clinic in Weshington, D.C. from

about 1942 to 1945 but hod to le vo that city due to an investigation of

vice conditions conducted by the Bureau, he returned to atlantic City,

and it is noted that a new hoalin clinic has been started by one'AGNeS

STalY, a former notorious madon and a Dr. NATHAN DURGAN at 127 North

Arkansas Avenue, Atlantic City, New Jersey.

This was the address of

AGNES STaIN'S notorious house of prostitution in the 1930's.

VINCANT MARDINO may have some connection with this establishment

according to 1724.

In connection with another investigation, the Resident

Agent of itlantic City had occasion to talk with Dr. LARGN at his place

of business at 127 North Arkansas Avenue; and observation disclosed that

women between the ages of 20 to 30. No male patients were observed in

view.

C. FOLINICA TIE UPS WITH ORGAIZID CRIME

This situation, according to NK 1724 and 1725, has not changed

in the last three years.

Senator FRANK FARLY is still the Republican

leader of Atlantic County. His car is observed regularly by the Atlantic

City Resident Agent at the Cosmopolitan Club, the oner of which is HaRdi

(STUPY) ORMAN.

ORAlY and BAtPH GOLD, both close associates of FRANK FARLEY,

are the liaison for the politiciens and atlantic City racketeers.

Both CI 1724 and 1725 have been attenting to force police action

against organized crime through newspapers and radio talks.

The Atlantic

City Press, a daily publication has always given space to 1724 and 1725 and

has been indegendent and fearless in reporting the news.

-84-

NW 53074 DooId: 32324906 Page 2

---

