# docid-32324235

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90025-10078

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-607-7

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45878 Date: 11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

07/18/1962

95

ISADORE MAX MILLER

ISADORE MILLER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

RPT

NY 45878 DocId: 32324235

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• DL 162-38

DL 162-95

DL 162-96

DL 162-179

The Information from the records of the Southwesteri

Bell Telephone Company, McAllen, Texas,

wag made avallable to

SA HAROLD H. CROSSETT on 4/20/82, by DAVID SHAH, Manager.

The information Jrom..therecorus of the southwest

cards showing the calls

telephone

number DI 2-2182, San Antonão, do not for the most

part carry the telephone numbers involved. He advised the

original operator table which bears the telephone numbere

15 sent to the IBM punch operator who only records the date,

place of call, area from which called, the minutes, the

amount and the type, which in this case is credit card.

Thestelephone numbers are not put on the IBM cards.

original telephone operator table is then sent to a storage

file where they are filed by exchanges without regard for

sequence of numbers or alphabetical listing of customers.

While these tables might be found, it would be a major

undertaking to check these tables

for the listed telephone

numbers.

This is not being done at this time by the san

Antonio

Division.

Information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas, was made avallable to

"SA. ROBERT P. GEMBERLING on 5/7/82 and 5/31/62, by Mr. R. A.

BURROW, Chief Special Agent.

The information frow the records of the Southern

JENNINGS on 4/16/62 by Mr. H. CECIL STUBBS, Chief Security

Officer.

The information from the records of the Citizens

N. THOMPSON on

The infornation from the records of the Pacific

Telephone

¿Company, Los Angeles, California, was made available

to SE EARL F. DUDLEY on 5/14/62, by CS LA 4178-S.

- H -

Cover Page

HH 45878 DocId:32324235 Page 2

---

## Page 3

... .

JEK Act 6 (4)

DI 162-39

DI 162-95

DI. 162-96

DL: 762÷178

Date

:8/19/62

4/19/82

4/19/82

Financial

Name of

Institution

0ff1c1al

Bank of Services

CS J. BENTON

and Trusts

LINAQUIST

First Citizens Bank CS JAMES WEST

FaIr:Park National

CB PAUL R. JESTER,

Bank

Agent

SA ALFRED D.

ELLINGTON

IDENTITY OF INFORKANTS

DL T-1 1s H. B. SHITHERMAN, Investigator, Internal

Revenue Service, U.S. Treasury, Federal Building, Shreveport,

Diana to out coation to Agent of the New

ол 5/4/62.

DL, T-3 18 PCI WILLIAN GROVER RAWLS

DI, T-4 18 PCI |

McAllen,

Who furnished In oratIOn to SA HAROLD I. CROSSEAT On 2718/62.

REVIEWED BY -EM/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 6/26/98 dal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

HH 45878

DocId:32324235 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 162-37

DL 162-96

DL 162-95

DL 162-179

On April 10, 1862, Major HOMER BRYANT, Ji., Caddo

Parish Sheriff's Offico, advised an Agent of the New Orleane

• at 5 Al.

the Sher1l1's Olice has heard nothing concerning any

gambling being carried on over there.

On April 11, 1962. DL I-l advised that!

JFK Law 11(a)

H. AT BOSSIER CITY, LOUISIANA

On May 7, 1962, Detective Sergeant J. D. PLUHMER;

jossier City Police Department, advised an Agent of the Nev

Orleans Office that to his knowledge there has been no

gambling activity around the Spot Billiard Club since EDDIE

Then on have i hate on or the a taco. Boss 0°

I. AT BENTON, LOUISIANA

On May 7, 1962, Deputy Sheriff A. L. BUNDi, Bossier

Parish Sheriff's Offce, advised an Agent of the New Orleans"

Office that his office had developed no information indicating

there has been gambling at the Spot Billiard Club since EDDIE

ALIAS died..

J. AT JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI

- 12 -,

162-607-7

NN 45878

• DocId: 32324235

Page 4

---

