# docid-32309798

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10064

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-3RD NR 87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: AG

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/15/1963

2

IID, ASSOC, POLIT CONTRIBUTIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/20/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309798

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIBENTIAL

- Belmont

1

- Evans

- Rosen

1

• Sullivan

~ Wannall

The Attorney Generabt CREV

DATE:

February 15, 1963

FROM

Director, IBI

1 - Meier

1278-94

566

CLASSIFIED D

CONTRO

ClasaiTed by S

EMPASSY OF NICARAGUA

INTERNAL SECURITY - NICARAGUA

Declassify on:

DADR

(EAK)

A source who has furnished reliable information in

past has reported that on February 11, 1963, I. Irving Davidson,

registered agent for Nicaragua,Kwas in contact with (General

Morales, Military and Air Attache of the Nicaraguan

25:28 Bour soirce said their conversation as couched in very

circumssect toriale

"ithout identifying the individual to whom he referred,

Dividson said that "he" should stay there awhile because they were

Sitting on the

"grand jury" and they vant to ask him about those

checks.

Davidson conjectured that probably "Frank" merely

got his regular check for $1, 000 and "Flood" endorsed it and

cashed it for "Frank" at the

bank in the Capitol. Davidson

adv ser forales to get word to Nicaragua. He said that although

slose to "Drew," he could do noththg; he had even tried

"pluta" (Spanish for silver).

Davidson continued by relating that about a vear ago

SHOWN

he had told "Frank" and the

"General" that "Frank should not have

done that" because, whether it was right or wrong, Drew Pearson

would put it in the paper and it could cause embarrassment.

HERE

Davidson thought the matter was probably being brought up at this

cime because of the "foreign agents investigation."

WIS

As possibly connected with the above, it is noted that.

"Drew Pearsin's column in the february 13, 1963, issue of the

Forc

:"Washington Post and Times Herald" reported that Senate probers

we had unearthed two political contributions from the brothers

Luis and Anastasio Somoza,

President and Secretary Of Defense,

respectively, of Nicaragua.

One of the contributions was a

$10,000 payment to the 1960 campaign of President Kennedy, who

Knew nothing concerning it.

The other was a payment of $1,500

to the clection campaign of Representative Daniel J. Flood,

Peansylvania.

According to Pearson, these contributions were

i ade through Trank Berry, a registered Nicaraguan agent.

200-14389515

7770?17

2-1423

wIIving

Davidson)

CONFIDEN

ITIAL

ACM: ams

• (16)1

Excluded from automatio

downgrading and

declassifibatto

FEB 1.9 1963

1 = 58-5205 (Conbribe)

1-97-3485 (Frank M. Barry)

1 - 62-98942 (Senate Foreign

Relations Committee)

SECRET Pago 2

DocId: 32309798

Page 2

---

## Page 3

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CUNCILLA

AL

The Attorney General

SECHEA

it is noted the files of the Registration Section of

the Department reveal Frank Barry, 1025 Connecticut Avenue,

Norchwest, Washington, D. C., is a registered agent of the

nicaraguan Government.

source reported on January 31, 1963,

that Barry would be in Nicaragua subsequent to February 7, 1963.

No inquiries will be made by this Bureau into the matter

outlined above in the

absence of a specific request.

I - The Deputy Attorney General

i - Mr. Herbert J. Miller, Jx.

Assistant Attorney General

1 - Mr. . Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE:

Classified "Confidential" because information was

received from NF 970-s*,a source of continuing value, and 6

unauthorized disclosure

could adversely affect his future

productiveness to the detriment of the national defense.

See cover memorandum Wannall to Sullivan, same

caption, dated 2/14/63, prepared by ACM: ams.

SECRET

-2-

COMES ENTIAL

DocId: 32309798

Page

---

