# docid-32290728

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10004

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-576

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 07/18/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32290728

Page 1

299

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 18 1962

TELETYPO

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Evans.-

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

=

DEFERRED

7-18-62

10-17

PM

JLS

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

192-3731 2P

GUS PALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI

ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT MIKE FISH-S

RESTAURANT FORMERLY

FREQUENTED BY ALEX AND OTHER CHICAGO HOODLUMS

HAS BEEN OUT OF BUSINESS FOR LITTLE OVER A MONTH. HE SAID HE RECENTLY

LEARNED THAT MIKE FISH IS NOW IN BUSINESS WITH HIS BROTHER PETE

FISH IN PETE FISH•S RESTAURANT LOCATED IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD

ABOUT TWO BLOCKS FROM MIKE FISH"S OLD LOCATION. PCI ALSO ADVISED HE

HAS LEARNED THAT ALEX AND HIS ASSOCIATES

NOW FREQUENT PETE FISH-S

RESTAURANT AND HAVE BEEN DOING SO SINCE MIKE FISH HAS BEEN THERE.

NOTED THAT MIKE FISH IN INTERVIEW HAS ADMITTED CLOSE FRIENDSHIP

WITH ALEX BUT DENIED KNOWLEDGE OF HIS ACTIVITIES. PGE FURIER

ADVISED THAT IN REGARD TO MIKE FISHOS OLD LOCATION TUM INDEVIDUAL

BELIEVED TO BE BROTHERS OF GREEK EXTRACTION, HAVE BEEN LOOKING ATI

THIS RESTAURANT AND IT IS RUMORED THAT THEY INTEND TOM BUY TH ANO

END PAGE ONE

REC-&

42-3182-

516

EX ICO

25 JUL 19 1962

OTHER 4

55 JUL 2 4 1962

NW 45679 DocId: 32290728 Page 2

---

