# docid-32286413

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10195-10189

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1819

Eleeeed andes Bre

====

=.

aaaaairazier

===£∞====

BB2

14€

===:.

=0=

1==

225-

Saa== :112:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/23/1966

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS, REL, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32286413 Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

36 (Ra 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

5/23/66

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-793)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA aka

AR

(00: CHICAGO)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIBED

DATE 4-24-84

D/S5RSE

RES

ReNYtel, 5/20/66; Chicago teletypes 5/20 and 21/66

ana Chicago telephone call, 5/21/66. 1

Enclosed herewith for the Chicago Office are 9 copies

each of two FD-302s reflecting interviews with OSKAR G

DANIELSON, New York Telephone Company and

West 12th Street, NYC V7

I NAOME XE LANNERY, 171

on 5/19/66, PCI|

advised SA'S PAUL G. DURKIN

CHARLES G. DONNELLY that NAOMI FLANNERY had been a secretary

for the McGuire Sisters.

He advised that she married an individual

named FLANNERY, who worked as Program Director for the Columbia

Broadcasting System in NYC.

They used to live at the schwab

House, NYC, but had moved to somewhere in the Greenwich Village

area of NYC.U

on 5/19/66, former PCI

Superintendent,

525. Park Avenue, NYC,

advised SAS DURKIN and DONNELLY that

PHYTLISAMC CUIRE was last seen here the previous Monday (5/16/66) .

He advised he would attempt to determine her present

whereabouts. U

JEK Act 6 (4)

2

1.

- Bureau (AMSD)

- Chicago (92-349) (Encl. 10) (AMSD)

- Philadelphia (92-20% Info

- New York

-- REC 37

92-3171-1819

5

MAY 24 1966.

CGD: pes

(8)

ALL INFOFMATION CONTAINED

HIREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Sent

5

Approved:

MUM

'Afm

1 Spore Agent In Charge

_ M Рег

NW 45792 DooId: 32206413

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-793

Nil

Theatrical Agentfor the

advised SA ANTHONY R.

VILLANO that NAOMI FLANNERY was formerly the secretary for the

McGuire Sisters. He pointed out she was not PHYLLIS MC GUIRE IS

personal secretary, but was shared between the three sisters,

He said at the present time, ANNA

DONALD has this position.

He advised that PHYLLIS MC GUIRE iS

presently on a vacation and is expected to return in about one

week to NYC, at which time the sisters will rehearse for a few

weeks. V.

on 5/19/66, FRANK PLANNERY,

Columbia Broadcasting

System. was telephonically contactea"by SA DONNELLY and advisec

that his wife is NAOMI FLANNERY, who used to work for PHYLLIS

MC GUIRE.

He was advised the agents wished to interview her

and desired his home address. He refused to furnish his home

address and stated he will contact his wife and at his convenience

will telephonically recontact the agent and advise if he will

make his wife available for interview. U

JEK Act 6 (4)

Shortly thereafter, PCI

telephonically

contacted SA DURKIN and advised the FLANNERY are presently

residing at 171 West 12th Street, NYC. V

SAS VILLANO and DONNELLY contacted an individual at

Apartment 4C, 171 West 12th Street, NYC, who stated she was

FRANK FLANNERY's sister, but refused to

furnish her name. She

stated NAOMI FLANNERY was presently at work and not home. She

telephonically contacted NAOMI FLANNERY and advised the agents

that NAOMI told her she was going to make an appointment with

the agents. V.

Later on 5/19/66, FRANK FLANNERY telephonically

contacted SA DONNELLY and advised that he had been in touch with

an attorney and he would make his wife, NAOMI, available for

interview if the agent could assure him that this one interview

would be the end of this

"annoyance"

could give no such assurance

to go through the courts". ,)

and he thon stated, "You'll have

-2.

NW 45792 DooId: 32206413 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-793

On 5/20/66, FRANK FLANNERY contacted SA DONNELLY

telephonically and advised 'he would make his wife available

ior Interview. that evening

He suggested that the agents

meet him and his wife at 12 vanderbilt Avenue, NIC. V

The results of this interview are set forth in

enclosed FD-302. U

in accordance with instructions from the Chicago

JEK Law 10(a)2

NW 45792 DooId: 32206413

Page 4

---

