# docid-32349695

## Page 1

Date: 12/22/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10072-10149

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

PAGES

FIELD INFO REPORT: CUBAN ASSISTANCE AND INTERVENTION

IN THE GUATEMALAN POLITICAL SITUATION.

05/01/1982

3

SUBJECTS : CUBA

GUATEMALA

INTERVENTION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/02/93

COMMENTS

: JFK15 : 59 : 1993.08.02. 18:29:43:120033 : INCLUDES

REPORT COVER

SHEET.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10072-10149

HH 53199

DocId: 32349695

Page

---

## Page 2

BEFORT COVER SNEET

HM Go 012

ONO HERE.

BertrA Li SPARESUS,

Colland Or CURTIS

SINO DATA AGO COLLAPDI

38.

00p008. 40.

CONTINUED CONTION

DATO OF AGPORT

-2 Man 2902

по но.

200-1=3332

close

B'CE CI.

LINLICK

no atrached vas taken fron a roport submitted by LINLUCK uho me

arconaliy with Fernandos on the dated indioated

RIC BLEASE INDEX AS INDICATED AND FORWARD TO THIS STATION FOR IT'S

FILES.

GOT EONAL:

ESTONES BELOU MICO MOT ON

INTRA-AGRACY

3. Coadquartare

Latonale

4 71100 .

DUPLICATIO

STRIBUTION

ACCOLPANYINO ACPOGY

ВПРАД ДОСАСУ

1-EM3,

PAO, Moo

1OLA

40:

NOM

SACCO.

DADA

0os.

8,0067

000

cond one

G00000d.

POEM

---

## Page 3

EVALLATION OF SOURCE:

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

satsty rallela ' Ba Uaualty reliabto

APPRAIAL OF COATINT,

in Conust bo fudged.

2 Costine by it i order C relate ours, 2 Probably is di Possibly tre el Doritai

Bi: Probatty

SEORET/NOBORN

CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTEY

SUBJECT

Cuba/Quatemala/ Maxioo

Cuben Assistance and Intervention in

the Guatonalan Political Situation

REPORT NO. 194-6343

DATE OF REPORT 1 May 1962

NO. OF PAGES

2

REFERENCES

DAT Of

No.

9 to 13 April 1962

PLACE &

DATE ACO. Mexico, Moxioo City (9 to 13 April 1962)

SOURCE EVALUATONS ARE DENTIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE PORICOINO EXPLANATIO

Pérsons (B) with olose connections in the PGI li Maxico Gity.

Appretsal of Contents

2

nombera if the Partido Guatomaltoco del Trabajo PSI - Guatemalan

Coumunist Party), and gald that the aBalatance balue sinen by Guba

20

smallest anount, to remain under its control? Fernandos una tola

that there were son reservations on the part of certain membere of

the PGI, however, they realised that Cuba's ald to the 13 Novamber

group would have

important politioal effeote alnoe the 13 November

military mon reallaed that the aid being givon by Fidel Gantrg Rus,

Prime Minister of Cuba, was not limited to nero worde, but was basked

up by action. Fernandos folt that perhapa the PGT underostimated the

guertilla group organised in Maxion and for that roason was reluntant

to support 1t.

However, he was told that it was not that the for

underestimated the group, but rather felt that the Cuband laoled &

complete underatanding of the Guatemlan political and militasy

situation.

Aug-07u02

fernandes said that thormoney to aid in tha 13 Nomanbar exonp 3n

Mard so una gaven ta Alfondolara, a lender as the 13 lovences pesota

because it was Prera uno exprosecd un interoe. In sooedyi

1to

Fernandes said that he fisst mat with Rogallo einian Loperat

hird secrotary of tha guban Embracy in Madled, and with other trussa

montore of tha Cuban Ambassy and explained the dotoraination o8 too:

13 November group in Msdoo to ald the Custamlan sovolutions Desosling

to Fernandos, Habans was consulted and Castro gave intrusions that, d

assistance be given lumodiately to 13 Novanbar group and that encourage.

mant should bo given to the guerilla fightered Parmandos cold shet

in looping with the Sacond Habana Declaration,

anodotanso should to

given to bussing imperialien. Permandes said,

Rit don't & itter. o

sanding around with Arab fatalien and aunit for evante to take place

vith the asslotance al our indifferences on the contrasy, la almila

SECRET/NOPORN

CONF INUND CONTROL

contest t

1062

MONTON

DocId: 32349695

Page 3

Ticke

---

## Page 4

Intorvone orriotently o a to précipitate the death of imperialism

Bocause of this to are ready to help anyone uno may decide to struggle

-against Imperialian anywhere." Fernandes then began to critico Prera;

saying, that he is an unsorupulous individual who is very fond of money

and continues to do everything possible to get more and more money

for himself without stopping to realize the important purpose for which

the cuban money is destined.

Fernandez feols that if Prera does not

continue to receive personal financial ald from the Cubana, he w11l.

reveil all the dotalls of Cuba's Intervention In this natterf by Cler Cuts

3.

On 13 April Fernandez again met with mombers of the PCT and said that

1t was inportant to continue to support larco unconicson sosa,.

a the 13 Noverber guerrilla exoup in Gustomala, Fernandez said that

Yon's 'group has demonstrated a desire to fight and a great military

He snid that the POT lavorad Carlos Lea Tejada, head ef the

PartIdo de Unidad Revolucionario, Lili- Unitod Revolutionary Party,

extrema leftist party), over Yon because Paz lu more roceptivo to communist

Ideas, and felt that thie was not an Intplligent attition cou 196s

40

Fernandez said that Cuba was concerned over the negative attitude of

Magobo Asperiz Guzman, former Prosident of Guatemala who 1s now in

Cuba, toward the Guatenalan situation.

Fernandez said' that the Cubans

'have been trying to encournge Arbenz to taise a more active rolo in the

Guatamalan atriegle.

However, unfortunately Jose Manuel Fortuny, C'T Furtive

prominent Guatemalan Communist and advisor to Arbenz, continues to

exert a very bad Influenge on Arbenso.

The Cubans would prefer that

Fortuny handle press or radio matters and not try to handle military

matters.

He sald that the Cubans were working very had in order that

Arbens could return to Guatemala and start a popular struggle, but have

become discouraged and now realize/ that while Fortuny continues to

Influence Arbenz,

they will not succeed. Fernandes said that the Cubans

are seriously concorned that Fortiny is awarded so much importance by

the PGT.

ch

Field Commenta:

I. It was reported previously that an unidentified young and trusted

member of the Partido Socialista Popular (PSP - Cuban Communist

Party) arrived in Mexico as an emissary of the Cuban Government, and

gave $10,000 (U.S.) to the 13 November group In Mexico to be used

to ald the guerrilla fighting in Guatemala.

This courrier, who

referred to himself as "Osvaldo" has now bean definitely Identified

Fernandes returned to llabana on 20 April 1962.

(CF. HM-6246, IMM 6250)

2. It was reported previously that the Mexican 13 Novenber, group loft

Mexico on 18 larch 1962. (OF. HM 6284)

• 3. It ras been roported previously the members of the PGT in Merico

were upset when the Cuban Government contacted the 13 November group

In Mexico instead of the PGT. (CF. HMM 6246)

4o Castro gave official instructiong to turn the money over to Prere

because he had received favorable information of each member of the

13 November Group in Maxico and their willingness to return to Guatemalão

(CT. HMM 6250).

DocId: 32349695 Page 4

RODUCTIONS

---

