# docid-32322679

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10379-10470

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62C-HQ-1029205-4324

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:,

HQ

TO:

DL

TITLE :

DATE: 04/20/1999

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/23/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322679

477

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• (01/26/1998)

• CONFIDEXTIAL

75

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: ROUTINE

Date: 04/20/1999

To: Dallas

Attn: Shawna Kay Maynard

From: Director's Office

JFK Task Force,

Room 11144

Contact: Latricia D. Grace, Ext. 0593

Approved By: Reeley Carol I arkay

Drafted By: Grace Latricia Dl

Case ID #: 62C-HQ-1029205

Title: ASSASSINATION MATERIAL DISCLOSURE ACT

Synopsis: JFK Task Force returning file(s) to Dallas.

Details: Enclosed

for Dallas are the following file(s) :

DI 100-8264 Vol. 2

The originals removed from these files and replaced

with duplicate copies of the original were accessioned to the

National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) pursuant to

the JFK Records Collection Act of 1992.

Provision of the JFK Act

allowed for certain information to be postponed from public

release until the year 2017; therefore, the pages have NOT

necessarily been released for public review in their entirety.

assassination zerora is open cuments

assassination records must be accessioned to NARA regardless of

whether the material is open in full or released with information

postponed.

Therefore, any documents or pages from FBI files

accessioned to NARA pursuant to the JFK Act are no longer

considered the possession of the FBI. The duplicate pages have

been inserted strictly for research purposes.

The copies contained within the previously mentioned

file(s) do not necessarily show the most up-to-date

classification.

cc 1- JFK Field Office File Folder, Room 11144

62F 491029205-4324

THIS COMMUNICATION IS UNCLASSIFIED

UPON THE REMOVAL OF CLASSIFIED ENCLOSURES

CONFINENTIAL

DocId: 32322679 Page 2

DECLASSIFED BY 5668 SIR/KSE

00 - 5-12-99

(JFK)

---

