# docid-32337906

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90139-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-3373

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NK

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/14/1962

1

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337906

Page 1

21°

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

(Ixpe in plain text or code)

Registered

11/14/62

SELVE

ransmit the following in

AIRTEL

lia

CONTACHED

STRIND EXCRE?

Fusessic

DADA

TURNAC

1O.

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, NEWARK

(105-7006)

SUBJECT:

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

Declassify

ALL TA

HEREIN

IS - CUBA

00: Miami

On 11/14/62 EDUARDO RAMOS, M.D., St. James

Hospital, Newark, N. J., (protect by request) a Cuban

refugee doctor of medicine, the reliability of whose

information has not been establthed, advised as follows:

During the week in October, 1962 when President

KENNEDY announced the quarantine of Cuba, he, RAMOS,

was told by RAUL TORRES who is in charge

of the office

of the Revolutionary Council in New York City, that all

anti-CASTRO groups have now been given "the green light"

by CIA.

Further, all groups, as long as they accept the

direction

and guidance of CIA, will be free to

recruit

and train for an eventual expedition to Cuba.

e) (И)

Dr. RAMOS advised that he understood that this

was an unofficial agreement with the anti-CASTRO groups

Dr. RAMOS explained that by this he meant that the agree-

ment was an oral one and could not have official sanction.

He could furnish no further details.

Since the current relationship between CIA and

the anti-CASTRO groups is not known at Newark, it is being

left to the discretion and the office of origin whether

TORRES or CIA through liajson should be contacted regarding

the above information.

No letterhead

memo is being submitted as the

if 'above information concerns administrative policies of CIA Ut

and perhaps other highly placed individuals in the governmen

3-Bureau

I-Miami (105-1742)

в 107-584-332 ка

1-New York (105-35253)

2-Newark (1-134-2372)

RDL: raC

• No to gue

/USR

(7)

12-13-97-(JF1L)

sproved:

pers

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

NW 45752 DocId: 32337906

Page 2

---

