# docid-32285981

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10194-10257

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-813

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

GAL, JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TESUR,

MISUR, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/22/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32285981

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 46-74-2222-60)

SYOPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bur1e 92-3182

JUNE

DATE: 7/26/63

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB L)

"JUNE"

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

FE: Title

GUS

ALEX,

aka

character of Case

ild rice

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

AR

Chicago

CG 6502-C*

II1

or

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

GUS ALEX, Apartment IOC, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago,

Illinois.

• 2. Address where Installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Chicago Office Consolidated Plant

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial

authorization by Bureau on 12/14/61.

Installation established 1/4/62.

5.

None.

92-3182-

REC-908

• 5 1903

6.

If instaliation is a technical surveillance, answer follow questions;

Not applicable.

¿. Is a trunk line utilized?

b.

Is the, surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on

public coin-operated telephone?

Bureau (RM)

Chicago

RAC : b1g

"E AUG

F! ROW

SEE Page"

(Registered Mail

DocId: 32285981 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

a. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many pa-ties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One, Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side :

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Day-to-day information on activities, travels and associates of

ALEX.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

I3. agony lost for the surveillance to outsido agames felve rama, title and

No.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

Rental costs for plant premises: None (Plant located in Chicago

Office.)

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

19

2

DocId: 32285981 Page 3

---

