# docid-32325399

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-90035-10296

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 122-2424-40

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM: DOJ

TO: EOUSA

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/01/1998

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

LET, REFERRED TO DOJ

DocId: 32325399

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collec

DATE: 11-14-2017

T07

"Hote).

156-64-28

22-2424

Kep

Fubert I. Teltelbaum, Esquire

United States Attorney

Pittsburgh 19, Fennsylvania

Edward I.

@Weinheimer; George Trancis

Robert Benjamin Baker, Its Callahan, Jr.

Labor Management Relations Act

(Pittsburgh FBI File 122-97)

Dear Mr. Teitelbaun:

2-1

111

the attached memorandun, dated April 15, 1959, outlines

our proposed course of action in the captioned

However,

ve invite any suggestions and comments you mey care to make.

It is anticipated that a Grand Jury having the pover to

investigate the Interstate Commerce Act (29 U.S,c. 301 et seq.)

will be impaneled in the District of Columbia for the purpose

of implementing the recormondations in the attached nemorandum.

The District of Columbia venue is predicated upon the theory

that the Exhibitors Service Company (Esco) filed false reports

with the Interstate Cormerce Cormission in Washington.

Il evidence develops in this brand Jury indicating a

violation of either the Hobbs Act (18 U.s.C. 1951) or Taft-

Hartley (29 U.S.C. 186), jurisdiction in such event will be

Pittsburgh and this case will be referred to you for appro

priate action.

EX 109

REC. 32

22 - 242740

In aid of this investigation it would be appreciated

MAY 6

you could secure the cooperation of John J. Sweeney, a forme

steward in Local 249 of the leansters Union, about whom you

talked with Mr. Henry E. Petersen during your visit here on

April 8, 1959.

In particular, it is requested that you have

3 Photo

>- T

MACKED

Fickl

62 MAY 8 1959

d0032-10580

DocId: 32325399

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the your F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

' DATE: 11-14-2017/

- 2รท

the FBI Field Offico in Pitteburgh develop that information

Sweeney may have about the folloving mattore pertinent to this

Investigation:

Any knowledge Sweeney may have concerning the

jurisdictional dispute between Teansters Locale

249 and 213 over the Echibitoro Servico Company.

Inquire of sweeney whether he knows how the dis-

pute was debtled.

2. Any knowledge Streeney may have concerning the

payment of $3,200 by George I. Callahan, Jr., to

Teodore Conna, president of Local 21l at an

unspecifled date in 1957.

3. Any knowledze Sweeney may have concerning

"Barney" Baker, and in particular whether Sreeney

knows what; if any, part Baker played in the juris-

dictional dispute involving Esco, Inquire of

Svechey whether he knows if Baker received

aby

"payoftal: from Callahan or Weinheimer.

Develop what Sweeney knows about Eduard I.

Hoinhetner, Including his past employment and

what part weinhelner played in the isco labor

dispute.

Ask Steoney if he kows of any past os

present connection between Weinheimor and Baker.

Please advise us of the results of the interview with

Sweeney as this Information nay be useful in the Grand Jury pro-

coodingo to be held in Washington.

Sincerely,

MALCOLM R. WILKEY

Assistent Attorney General.

Criminal Division

By:

WILLIAM G. HUNDLEY

Chief, Organized Erine and

Racketeering Section

Enclosure

00032.105808

DocId: 32325399

Page 3

---

