# docid-32290230

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

- Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10205-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/26/1961

2

GAL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290230

260

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICAIIUN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN2 61961

TELETYPE

alta

Mr. Tolson.-

Mr. Belmont

Mr.

MohI-

Mr. Callahan-

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Uvans

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 6-26-61

8-16 PCLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

ditr

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ 2P

GUS ALEX, AKAO, ARE, DALLE SUMMARYO

REMYTEL JUNE TWENTYTHREE LAST STATING NO RUSSELL ARRINGTON, EVANSTON,

ILLO, IS A SUBSTANTIAL OWNER OF STOCK IN THE ALBERTO DASH CULVER

CO. ILLO STATE SENATOR ARTHUR RO GOTTSCHALK WAS CONTACTED UNDER A

SUITABLE PRETEXT AND ADVISED THAT SENATOR ARRINGTON IS AN ASTUTE

POLITICIAN WHO ENJOYS CONSIDERABLE POWER AND INFLUENCE WITHIN

HIS OWN DISTRICT OF ILLO HOWEVER, HE HAS MADE NUMEROUS POLITICAL

ENEMIES IN THE ILLO STATE LEGISLATURE BECAUSE OF HIS EGOTISTICAL AND

UNCOMPROMISING POLITICAL PRINCIPLES. GOTTSCHALK STATED THAT IN HIS

OPINION SENATOR ARRINGTON IS COMPLETELY HONEST AND RELIABLE AS FAR

AS HIS INTERESTS ARE CONCERNED. HE WOULD NEVER BECOME A TOOL

OF ANY TYPE OF UNDERWORLD OR ORGANIZED CRIME UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.

HE STATED THAT ARRINGTON IS NOT GENERALLY CONSIDERED TO BE AN EXTREMELY

WEALTHY INDIVIDUAL BUT IS KNOWN TO HAVE A LUCRATIVE LAW PRACTICE IN

A RESPEGTED FARM.SHCG SIX FOUR FOU

"THREE

DASH C IS BEING RECONTACTED

TO DETERMINE, LEOADDITIONAL INFORMATION

REA-NOBE OBTAINED AS TO THE SOURCE

FOR -HES

STATEMENT INDICATING THE SUBJECT

AND OTHET

HOODLOMS

DID PAGE ONE 1961.

JUN 30 1961

DocId: 32290230 Page 2

---

