# docid-32310190

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10302-10134

HQ

105-172694-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEG, MX

DATE: 09/23/1968

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FS, BKG, ASSOC, CONSPR, INVADE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32310190

Page 1

Date:

4/6/2015

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

---

## Page 2

Confidential

CODE

9/23/68

1081

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

TO LEGAT MEXICO CITY

21495-71395 sosa mote

Gastrau

- Mr Wannall

Declassi

- Mr. Harrel

FROM

DIRECTOR FBI

INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST. BRIGADE (LACE) ,

AKA ORGANIZACION

EJERCITO SECRETO DE LA BRIGADA

INTERNACIONAL ANTICOMUNISTA

A SECRET

ARMY ORGANIZATION OF THE INTERNATIONAT ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE) NM.

BY TELETYPE SEPTEMBER TWENTYTHREE, NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT, THE

MIAMI OFFICE FURNISHED FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

MM ONE THREE ONE TWO ~ C STATED HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY FRANK

FIORINI (YOUR FILE ONE ZERO FIVE - SIX ZERO FOUR SIX), AND

INFORMANT WAS ASKED IF HE HAS INTEREST IN JOINING THE SECRET ARMY

ORGANIZATION ON AN EXPEDITION TO CENTRAL AMERICA. ACCORDING TO

FIORINI, THE IACE UNDER HIS LEADERSHIP PLANS TO RENDEZVOUS IN NEAR

FUTURE IN THE MOUNTAINS OF MEXICO AND PROCEED FROM THERE TO A

CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRY, INDICATED BY FIORINI TO BE GUATEMALA.

FIORINI STATED THE GUATEMALAN COVERNVENT IS TO BE ASSISTED BY TH

SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION IN CLEANING OUT COMVUNIST GUSRRILLAS FROM

THE HILLS OF GUATEMALA, AND WHEN THIS IS ACCOMPLISHED SUCCESSFULLY,

THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNANT HAS END FOSSIST ACB IN A'PLANNED

"INVASION OF CUBA."

REG-34

105-170lc

MACT 8

Tolson

ACCORDING TO SOURCE,

FIORINI

PLANNING TO FLY FROM

1968

DeLoach _

Mohi

Bishop -

TO VENEZUELA

WINT MIREWIEREAND

FROM THERE PROCEED TO MEXICO

WHERE

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt

1'

Gale

- Foreign

Liaison batt

(detached)

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel .

T'rotter

JEM:ChS (S)K

NCIPHEREE

NOTE PAGE TWO XTENDEMIE

ele. Room

FCIM, I 1

OCT 3

TELETYPE UNIT

DATE OF

DECLASSIFICATION

9/3.3/85

NW 54462 DooId: 32310190

Page 2

---

