# docid-32271039

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2/5/2016

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10141-10235

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

13-13-05

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/09/1978

24

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

• Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NW 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO

CIA, FILES

• DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/01/1995

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 5

HW 53080 DocId: 32271039

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

3/9/78

SummARy: PrE-ASSASSINAtioN; MEXiCO

Russian Embary Fanscripts

1. The name of the Embassy appears

t the top of the first port

ach transcript.

the coverage. The nest line

gives the tape lammi

this is followed by the

time percoal. (hours) covered

by the transcript. On most

of the transcripts the cite

to where the conversation!

is on the reel ajppears on

the left hand columm opposit

the referenced conversa-

tier beverally, the ting,

and a notation as to.

whether.it.isar.incoming.

at the lege to flans

al the.

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

2

conversation.

than literal transcriptions.

This is more tre of the

spanish than the English

transcripts. Some of th

conversations in spanish.

and most of the English

(Russian ones, appear to

= Is liteal transcriptiplan,

in spanish. In these trans.

crists there are references

to those places on the tape.

where a conversation

appears in Russian. These

comersation dopean later,

4. In the English transcripts

Ruse and enget t

phrase

culed aten ply that

ite to thi tape footage mumber.

these conversations are not.

in the transcrists we

SEGRET

IN 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

-3-

exaimined.ed.andd.did.a

careful cross-heferencin

find those conversations

denatedas" previously trans=

cribed" Our check failed

of thass

about this Russ Holmes said

that he know nothin

g. abort

a Me suggestes taking to

5. Marginal Comments are.not

infrequent. in the English

transcripts. The comments

seem to be of two types,

bath of which are setoff

from the text. by slash

marks. He first type seams.

when the trandlator/trang,.

generally

aquestion marker sonation

SECRET

NH 53080

DocId:32271039 Page 4

---

## Page 5

<, SECRET

the second type is longer

omments on the conversa.

tion and cover a more

general ares. These are usually.

prefaced with the word

'Comment". Some examples

a notation ofalarm inas.

participants voice;

• comments on the marita

elationship of a Russian

Embassy official. (basedon

the observation that the

official.always.speaks.ina

condescending tone to

his wife);..

c.identifyinga.calleras

the same asa man.in

2. transcribing the anglinst

notes of background.

conversations;

* lility to get patie

SEBRET

HH 53080

DocId:32271039 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

5

" Est noted that he paring

7. I transcripts for September.

15 * 1e, if there are am

not on the microfilm ne

examined. When asked about

this Russ Holmes said it

II Information from the trans..

Aleptember 27, 1963.

1 A man calls the soviet

habitan attache lasting

attache lookin

is refered to the Consulate.

Heasks how to get to the

Embassy and isgiven

directions.

" This conversation

is in the spanish transcripts

and appears to be a parachras

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

This conversation occured.

betueen 10:30 and 10:50 A.M

sorret Consulate and aski

to the Come Me in told

The man outside says that

stionecessar

getas visa to d for him to

essor. The

person in the embassi

asks him to call backal

11:30. This is in the Spanish

transcripto.

3. at 1:25 a man calls the

Consulate and asks for the

Conoul. He is told that he

(the Consul) is not in The

manoutside arks, "when.

tomorrora? "The Condulate

official tells him between

400 5 on Mondays and

Fridays. This is in Spanish

4 At approximatel

Sylera Duran cal to the

thent embassy the te

she tell

amere

American citizen urbans

SEGRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SECRET

the one who wanto a visa

to Cuba in transit to Russia.

there saying that if he got a

sorret isa that he could

thenget a Cubanone and

seeking the visas wants to

know who he spake to at

the toret lembassy because

he was assured that there

puts anather man ow the

than the lyin i

im. He tells her to

leave her name and phone

is in spanish

5. At 4:26 an unidentified Sorriet

Consulate Official calls

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEGRET

Sylvia man le daist

hev if the American had been.

and that he wants to go to

the USSR where he plans

to stay fova long time

with his wife who is

Russian. The 50 says that he

has not recieved ananswer.

to this man's problem

from Mashington and it

traditionallyta bes four to

e 5.0. say

that unles the lage permis

sadie a visa without getting

permission from Mashington

durever, the 50 says, the

man has a letter showing that

hessa memberofanorganigation

that favors Cuba, but the

Cubans cant gie hima visa

without him firstgettingo

SECRET

MH 53080. DocId: 32271039 Page 9

---

## Page 10

9

sorret isa and the so

doesn't know what todo.

with him now because

they should wait foran

mower from Mashingtos

ilisa. agrees. and say

that it is doubtful that

the Cubans will give him

a visa because he doesn't

that man in caland

in Cuba while his Sorret

wisa was being processed and

he knew that would take

quiteawhile The S0. says

that his wife could geta visa

auber But negotia

the visas or permission

soon Silvia says it is

clean that they can't give

rim a litter because they

don't know if the ise will

be approved. The 3 D. says

that

they only give visad

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

1D

The SO says that they can't

B. september 28, Aaturday) Saturday:

silvia Duran Calls the Sorret

Consulate at 11:51 A.M. She says

that there is a North American

there who had been at the

before dhe SC

sisten sat one minute

preceedin

in English in Spanish, folong,

"/Please see the spanish trans-

in the background: He said

takes the phone and says in

broken Russian/Swas in

SEChES

HH. 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 11

---

## Page 12

SEGREI

your Embassy and spoke to

your consul. fusto.minut

mI takes the phone.and

asks NO inenglish what

does he want.

no: Lin Russian/ Please speak

Russian.

Ms: What else do you want?

mo And yet no that you

myaddress.

MI: Iknow that

no: speaks terrible, hardly

rosable ian vend.

the Cuban Embassy to ack

them for my addhess, because

The spanich transcript

indicates that the MOlirst

spoke Russian, the MI responder

nenglish and then they

SEGRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

12

both spoke in English. The

transist in Oscalala.

C. October 1,1963

1. At 10:31 A.m. as man calls the borret

Military Attacher:

"No to MI, in boroken Russion.

ask you if there was any

thing

nI: d'd like to ask you to call

another phone number.

no: floate Please.

mI: Please write it down; 15-60-55

and ask fora consul

mo: Thank you.

MI: Please

(English transcript)

2. A man calls the consul later

SECREY

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

•13

this.call at 10:45 Am. The

eswald Mexican file has

a heroxed copyaf the

English tran

scripts:

"In at Xiao (?) (sic) mo/ the same

yes pretti ass at your

and

poke to a consul, and

they said that theyd send o

telegram to Mashington, so

of that consul

OBy: Kostikor. He is dark/hair

ouskin?/

LIZ: Yes. My name is Qwald.

OBY: fust a minute I'll find

hit. They no that thything

LEs: Have they done anything?

OBY: Yes, they say that a request:

SECRET

HH: 53080 DoId:32271039 Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET

14

has been sentout, but

nothing has been recieved

prior conversations are

designated "previously

ransacibea

DOn October October a man calls the

soviet military. attache and

speaks in token banish and

vida for Russia and is asked

torcall the Consulate at 15-60-65:

tranocript)

III. Info from!

Oswalds Mexico file:

A 9/27;

Lenox copy

B. 9/27;

C 9/27;

SECTER

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

15

NAME OF

CIA OFFICER

9/27/

carbon copy taped to another

page

1 portions Meterline in

2

to identify?

Jurites: "Ds it possibili

3. routed to

стрі042

LAS

"O" at

TOP

4

file.

Has trusti on

5. filed E

1

-P- date of

filing indictions on

notations not

indicated

2. 9/27;10

i parto unded carbon coppy

CIA employees.

routed tort

3. file instructions tole

I nor dates indicated.

F. 9/28;

1 parts underle carbon cages.

ClA officers

SEGRET

HH. 53080

DocId:32271039 Page 16

---

## Page 17

SECRET

16

fite austruction.

4. bile intruat

5 no date

G 810/1;

H. 10/1;

I.

1013j

J. I i

wowe

Xerox

requested

Ties

from Barbararind am

no camue

if the CARBoNs

THEY PROBABLY DORE FOEXIS THE MEXICAN

City, Gold mexican file, and

Band WX-7241:

A ON 10/1/63 Mer 6344 to HQ

reporto that!

isow TDY in Hashington, 0. C

B. Mexi 6384, dated 10/3/43, subject

C. DIR 72527, dated 10/4/63, says in

CIA officer

file

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

17

Mexi will arrive; Oct

Tin Miamit for two de

consultation WAVE... Ja

Maxi: Mo. Re hillips sTA

Mexi 9 Oct...

October 1+4,1963.

1. Gawaldo Mexican file

antainsan envelope

prints of photos of the mnn

use envelope so. photo.

"Diges of

"In blue printin

In red script it says. "Phates

літня

desigation.

2

IN 36017

CIA office

appearently prepared

1967, also places the date.

of these photos or i+4 October

as does post-assassination

cable traffic andi

which refers to asan

unidentified man entering

the Embassy on one October.

3

recently

informed me that the correct

dates. are 2and 4 October

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 18

---

## Page 19

in 36017

CIA offica

contact wick

SEGRET

18-

E. On 8 October 1963,

5-1- A)

es

nt to H. Q. It originated with

Id he Authenticati

Officer. (A.0)/wwar

nd the Keleasem

Officer

t(R.O.)

was

he cable reports

Orwald's

Obyedkor

aw Get ; Orwald's statement

that he had been there on the

28th; and the ing

asth and the in inanany

Lhe and.

beAmerico

IN 36014

CIA office.

ent age 35,

1, circatfee

Rage ding hairline, balding

shirt. "There is nato routing

slipon this cable

F. HQ responded to

with

DIR 14830(7-2) on 10 Octaver 1963.

This cable originated with

) A.O. was

and the R. O. was

cable providesasammany.of

SECRET

HH 53080 DocId: 72271039 Page 19

---

## Page 20

IN 36017

SECRET

19

bio info on Quald including

then is date delete , decrig

his marriage. Ot says that the

stay in the USSR "clearly had a

"effect on Oswald."

It aported chat the lasting

recierred by H. Q was a Mau

Glad memo that reported that

it had been determined that LO.

was stilla 1.5. citizen and

that he and his family had

tess as to return too

to paso Oshvalds. DPOB, fact

of defection, and description to

the FBI, Mary, I+ NS. and th

Embassy locally AQsaid

that it was passing the

info int

and the

The raiting clipin the

Mexican files indicate that

this cable rentte

CIA officero

ated:

SEGRET

HH 53080. DocId:32271039 Page 20

---

## Page 21

CIA office

SECRET

20

"He should ark HQ for photo: No?".

noted that the

local disemination requested

was done om 15 October

requested that

file be

opened on hee Henry Oswald

and put all data we have

into it, Photos?"

G.On 9 Ostober 1963

informed HQ that Mere urgently

needed nei

dara off, Floryan Randolph

rified

Marty and an e call nipante

that the machines used by

these people were constantly

down and that

ClA officers:

internal dig.

NoTE: The

'and'"

INFO WAS

MADLAVALLABI

TO INS.

I' The cable was sent to the

and the Fbi. Pha plead Man

graph of the cable says: On. Got

SECRET

MH 53080 • DocId:32271039 Page 21

---

## Page 22

1963

SECRET

21

reported that an Amer-

ican male, who identified

been sent to Mashington. The

American wao described as

approximately 35 years old, with

an athletic build, about six feet

The with a sade by that.

it is believed that the man is

identical to hee Hemy Oswald

analgives bio info on his

(DIR 74673, dated 10/10/63)

IN 40357

J. On 10/15/631

was dated

CIA officeis

Crig. + A.06

R.0:

refo: DiR 74830.

Ot said Ple pouch photo a

swald.".

one this cable taffic.

chrono or Oswald's Meric

CiA of ficci

file. Shave asked

SEGRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 22

---

## Page 23

showed

"uncicco unitable"

DiR 77978

SECRET

22

to engine the displeas

the dates of 10/15 and ip/364

said that this might not get

all the pouched materials

because Hld melint t

pouch" This cable does not

haare an RS attatched

k. Cable originating with

on 23 Oct 1963.21

wassenton the 2+th

A.0:

R.0

REf: 0IR74673.

Pot is guested that your on

1o possible to copies o

grap

the hee Gwald in Mesico City

und subject are the same

individuals."

1. On 16 October 1963,

wrote a memo to the Ambassa

dor

SEGRET

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SECRET

23

Idt reported that the infor-

mation was from a ve

" that a man I D'in

imself asks @swald had

contasted the lovemb ow

October; that he had

previoudly.contacted athen

on 28 kept.; that he had

talked to Kostikor-aboute.

rita his resent, 10s

promice to pass any

(9-5 FOiA) The memo says, in

part:

This office determined that

Orald had been at the

recieved a reply fron

Melit he have to s

HH 53080 DocId:32271039 Page 24

---

## Page 25

SECRET

2Y

tomatist reggital

if this memo went to

The Ambassador

The Minister.

Corinselos for Political Affair.

Regional Security Offices

capres to:

hegat

Naval Attach

I+ NS.

Orwald "p"

50-2-4-1 (writtEN OVER 1)

Lialson with LegAt

NAvAl AttAchE.

fInfo from

production

no logs;0

Stello me he ro

documents.luut will mat

saving toulo locating there

themarpilable if and when

SEGRET

H 53080: DocId: 32271039 Page 25

---

