# docid-32305055

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

Released under the John F.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10185

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 94-57090-26, 28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SULLIVAN, W. C.

TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE:

DATE:

12/04/1963

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

CC, CP, ASSOC, TRA, FINANCES, PRO-CASTRO, FPCC, JHO,

ARREST, ASSA, JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS : INC ADMIN PAGE, MEMO

M7° 55355 DocId: 32305055

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECREZ,

TABLE OF CONTENTS

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIGN TO

Page

DECLASSIFIOATION AND/OR,

Recent TEX High Lights

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. MKH 7-29-98

Communist Party, USA

Communian and the Negro Movement

1

Prosocutive Action Under the Intornal Security

2

Act of 1950

[Rootration of sovlombloe intollgono servicon efe

3

The Fodora Case

3

The Tophat Case

Tra 18 kmail caes

ATL INTORMATION CONTRINED

HORE TH 19 UNCOASSIP 12D NICEF?

WERE SEONE OTHENNISE..

(Ister) Cano)

The rame Case sI

The (Candy case 5)

6'28

Declassily on. paDR (Jek)

4

4

5

5

5

Penetration of Sovlet Illogal Oporatione (u),

Sciontific Counterattack

Cuban latters

CLASCIFIED SÝ 56o854D/ade

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XA

6

6

7

7

Major Criminal Investigations

Hoffa Case

Baker Case

Antitrust Investigation of Steel Industry

SECRET

"CLOSURE

9457090-28

NW 55355

DocId: 32305055 Page 2

---

## Page 3

penotration of Soviet-bloc Intelligonce SorvicoaCHY

DRONET

The Soviet bloc countries are conducting a massive,

well-coordinated espionago attack against this country.

November 20, 1955,

there vor 28 town or highly aurase is

Govlet-bloc

intellizence officers in the United states assigned

to the various establishmento of the Soviet bloc in this country. 5t

To thuart their efforte ve have conducted an all-out

offongive to penotrate their organization, defect their personnel

and develop those defectors in the very heart of thoir intelli-

gence apparatus.

We have been unusually successful in developing

such detectors.

(W)

Tho Fodora Case #)U)

For enample, one Soviet officer (code name Fedora)

began cooperating in May, 1992.

He is an officer of the KGB

(Conmittee of State Security of the USSR) assigned to the Soviet

Mission to the United Nations.

He has furniohed informtion

regarding approsinately 60 agents being operated by KGB officers

in various countrles of the vorid.

six of those are actually

FBI double agents operating against the KGB. (A) (U

This officer also furnishes inoide infornation fron

KGB headquarters.

For example, Joha Butenko, an Anerican

enginoer, and igor ivanov, & kos antorg engloyee, vere arrested

ou espionage chargea October 29, 1963,

Three other its orticors

attached to the Soviet Mlesion to the

United Nations vere expolled

from the United States for their complicity in the conspiracy.

Our defector was able to tell us of the estreno consternation

at KGB headquartere.

One third of the KGE scientific espionage

officers in New York had been lost at one stroke. (a) (u)

(The Tophat Case ](AU

Jack Edward Dunlap was an Army sergeant ascigned to

the National Becurity Agoney (NSA) who cormitted suicide the

His widow, on Auguot 20, 1953, fur-

nished Arny investigators twelve classified Governmont documents

she clained she found in her attle after his death.

Alter the

IBI ontered the case August 22,

1963, additionsi elecaiiied

documents were found and Dunlap's widow admitted Dunlay hau

admitted to her before his suicide that he was selling informi

tion to the soviots. (DU)

We received verification of this from an encollent

source.

In 1961 we had devolopod a Sovlot intelligenco officer

(code nane Tophat) vho had furnished valuabie data to us until

his reture to the Sovlet Union. Prior to hid return he agreed

to fill a drop in lloscow on apecified dates in June, July or

August, 1963, and place a specified sigual.

CIA agreed to

clear the drop wich Stato Department approval. Our source

made no signal on any of the agreed dates.

CRA was willing(*.(U)

-3-

SECRET

55355

DocId: 32305055

Page 3

---

## Page 4

(to clear the drop in July, but State declined to perilt 1t.

State approval CIA clearod the drop in August and found a very

important message which said, in port: "Most important agent

Jack Diverd Dunlop, & Ginre Sireet, Glen Burne, Baryland, at Skik

he came to kostyus himself lay,

1961,"

(Mikhail Kostyut was

Soviet Air Attache,

sauter ancassy,

Washington, D. C., from duly,

1958, to hugust, 1962.202 1

Annlyste of the complete message and the manner in

which it was ploced in the drop indicates it was probably placod

in the drop in Juno, 1983.

the state Department pernitted

CIA to clear the drop in early July, appropriate mensures could

have been taken against Dunlap prior to his suicide flu)

In March 1963, (we successfully defected and operated CS

in place another employee of the Boviet Micsion to the United

Nations (code name Nicknack)

He has furnished us documents of (S

mitary sign ricance including Soviet evaluations of the defenso S

Installationa (in the New York and Boston areas. The United StatesC

Alr. Foreg has

advised that these Bovlet documents are complete and

accurate revorte of equipment and capabilitiestos the North Amer- (SI

icon fir Dofense las of the time they wore written.

The information

on our installations was obtainedyby the Loviets through reconnais

nance and through the use of mobile electronic devices.s)'

This source is now in the Soviet Union,

Ingenious

nethod le recently conmunicated with us

rough saLs

and furnished C5

information of significant military intelligence.

Line I ter Casel

United lotions Secrotariat. We expect that he will be able tox

furnish informtion o1 arpolstical neture, (which he has agreed to

55355

Borly in 1963 we developodlas a defector in place the CS

Clerk at the Polish

United Nations Dolegation in New Yorl

(code name (Prime).

Through

information furnished us by thisCs

ource, the United States Government on a daily basis io able to

JFK Äct 6 (1) 7B)

resentative In Now York.

has evaluated this source noting that

his data could not bo bought

for collars and "could very well prov

commun catiOn, 18f8lligence superheull of this centusy X (S

ON

10/29/14 das

12 sarcast is FeL

Id NELSASE IN PART

SECRET

I TOIAL DENIAL

DocId: 32305055

Page 4

20, (5)

(S)

---

## Page 5

(5)

voluninous information concerning Czechoslovalion Intelligence (s7

operations and targets in the United Statea. this particular

defector in place has returned to Czechoalovakia and has agreed CS

to furnish information fron there.S,

Tho Candy| CaseYS)

our informant entered the United Stated lad a Hungorian (S

relugee

In February, 1951, under cover of the Hungarian Refugee

Program.

Following recruitment (in Hungary) as an illegal agent (S

and disyatch to the United States with high-level intolligence

assignments, he has successfully carried out an extromely valu

able double agent role under our direction for ever pis and one- (S]

half yearo. His nost significant assignmente are toDinpoint (S]

location of

the United Statess

long-range balliotic miquiles) in several

areas of

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Penetration os the Yugoslav Intelligenco Soxiled (8)

In July

1962, we devoloned the Firet Secretary of the

Yugoslav

Embrasy

Through his

wo have obtainedo penetrating picure of Yugoslav intolligence

operationa in the United States,

as woll as policy planetor the Ce

yugoslav Government in dealing with important political'

situa

tions.

As a rosult of inforuation furnished by this source,

action has been inflated fo neutralize six Government enployees

know to havo been

valued Yugoslav Intelligence sources (S

Penetration of Soviet 1110g31 Operations My

Important in the Soviet-bloc intelligence systen 1s

the undercover or illegal agent sent to this country who has

no diplomatic or official

status. He is the sophisticate of

espionage to uses trancent documents, elaborate codes, necret

inks, microfilm and covert tinancial support to avole detoction.

Networks of illegal agents serve to bolstor the espionage activ

ities of Soviet-bloc officials and are prepared to tale over ali

espionage operations in the event of war of

other energency which

resulte in a breals of diplomatic relations #CL

To neutralize the threat posed by this illegal appara

tus we have resorted to highly unconventional and inaginativo

tochniques which have resultod in our penotration of a number

of these operations,

One of these operation livolven the ino

Sovlot 1llogal agonte using the identitles of Robert K. Beltch

and Joy Ann Baltch who vere arrested by us in Washington, D. C..

this suros and are prosonily awaltims trial, she sincipar pul

- 5 - SECRET

55355

DocId: 32305055

Page 5

---

## Page 6

(5]

Government withes in this prosecution will be a Soviet illegal

agent who was successfully doubled by us over four years ago

and has been operating against the Soviets ever since.

• Soviet Military Intelligence Officer (code name Karot) sho

He was uncovered by us two months after his entry.

Scientific Counterattack

SECRET

One of our most valuable contributzone in the secur

field has been the procurement of

materials

In the United States for use

These opore-

Zions have involved the opening of intricate locsing mechanisms (5)

•n 5A108.

the penetration and subsequent restoration of thei

contents. As of today, the value 01

natorial&s

our Goverment.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

Guban Mattors

Our investigations in the Cuban area have been most

intense since Castro ascended to pover January 1, 1959. We have

concentrated not only on pro-Castro individuals but on such

groups as the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, organized in New Hork

City in April, 1960, to serve as a propaganda organ for Castro.

(Lee Harvey Oswald,

accused assassinator of President Kennedy,

claimed to head a chapter of this group in New Orleans.)

We have specialized coverage of(three high-level Cuban(5)

intelligence agente vhose artivities are being directed from Cuba

through clandestine

Twelve Cuban aliens sent to the United statos

the cuban doverment under the guise of refugees to carry out

intelligence activities against this country are cooperating with

the FBI and their potivities are not being directed against the

Cuban Government . C

In late October, 1963, (one of our sources, who has thols

confidenco of Cuban Foreign Minister Baul Roa Garcia and the

Foreign Minister's son, Cuban Ambassador to Brazil Raul Roa Lourt,

(5 Yvoo sent to Brazil to visit with Raul Boa lour.

Vital information

concerning the extent of Castro's influence in South America and

future plans of the Cuban Government was obtained. &

Coverage of (Non-Soviet-Bloc attore(S)

(S)

Ne maintain coverage of certain(non-Soviet-blod countries

in order to produce intelligence information of value to the various

United States Government agencies. One of the principal means of

acconplishing this is by maintaining technical surveillances on

coreign diplomatic establishments in this country.

As of today

have 47 Jsuch surveillances on 27 aifferent countries.

SECRET

55355

DocId: 32305055

Page 6

---

## Page 7

....

Frequently we institute special coverage to establish

the activities and contacts of various internationally known

ileures who visit thie country such nondane Ngo Dinh Thu of 65.

South Viotnam, Choddi Jagan, Marzist Prime Minister of Brition Col

Guiana, and Cathal Goulding, Chief of Staff of the Irich Repub-

lican Army]who was here last month to obtain United States support

for his organization.

He have just completed special covorage of

this nature on Juan Bosch, deposed President of the Doninican

Republic.

This was done

at the specific request of the Honorablo

Ralph A. Dungan, ot the white Houso Staft, and resultod in pro-

ducing intormation showing that Bosch in conducting an active

campaign urging that the Dominican people overthrow the army. (A

As a result of our coverage of Cheddi Jagan, we have

searned that nie united states reprosentative is considering

asking the Cubans and Bussians to prepare a plan for guerrilla

warfare 1n( British Gulanzo He have also come up with atrong (S

indications the Soviets are financially supporting (Jagan throughS]

communist contacts in the United States. (X)

Major

Criminal Investigationg

The two principal cases in which James Riddle Hoffa,

President di the Teamsters Union, is now under indictment include

an indiotment of loita and six others at Nashville on lay 9, 1903,

on charges of Obstruction of Justice and the indictment of Hoffa

and seven others in chicago on June 4, 1963, for mall fraud, fraud

by viro and conepiracy.

Irlal date in the Nashville case set for

January 6, 1964, and tentative trial date on the Chicago case set

for February 3, 1904.

Baker Case

We have received thirty-oight requests from the Depart-

ment for inquirios regarding possible conflict of interest.or

fraud

againet the Government on the part of Robort G. Baker,

former Senate Majority Secretary.

Antitrust

Investigation of Steel Industry

On October 21, 1563,

the Antitrust Division requested

we locate witnesses and

roviev hotel rogistration records to

determine whether representatives of steel compantes were in

Now Voris City and Cincinneti, Ohio, for metings on the same

dates fron 1955 to date. This 1s to assist a grand jury inquiry

authorized by the Attorney Goneral and former President Kennedy

100king into pricing activities of steel companies on lour major

steel products.

This grand jury in effect 10 a continuation of

the 1962 grand jury inquiry relative to the increase of steel

prices on April 10, 1962.

The investigation requested of the

Bureau by the Antitrust Division has been completed.

Case Involving Bonbing of Canadian Freighter

We are investigating the bombing on September 6, 1963,

at Chicago of the Canadian freighter, "Howard L. Shaw," which

appeare to be a direct result of a jurisdictional dispute between

÷7-

SECRET

55355

DocId: 32305055

Page 7

---

