# docid-32341383

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10015-10030

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

March 26, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 18

Reason for Board Action: The Réview Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):*-

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 2 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

HW 53199 DocId: 32341383

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 4 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section. 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 5 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 6 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Crypt

Release Date: 01/2006

Board Review Completed: 01/31/96

HH 53199 DocId: 32341383

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date:

Page:

02/29/96

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

CIA

104-10015-10030

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

BERN

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE

: CABLE CONCERNING EUGENE DINKIN

DATE

11/07/63

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS :

DINKIN, E.

BOWERS, M.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/02/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW1:V2 1993.12.02.14:52:16:530028:

[R] = ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341383

Page 3

---

## Page 4

mut mess

OR SECRET

ROUTING

5

70

/DIASCIOR

FROM 8 BERN

ACTION. EE 6

3

• (EE CO NOTIFIED

NO

TEMPO COPY TUBED AT 8615, 7 NOV OM)

SE CHE 8 011880

1723M5 6631

FRICITY DIR FRAN ERLN PARI INFO GNVA CITE BERN 2399

IMK 00 13EX

1O FOLL FYIO SOURCE INFO ARVATI DERA, ODENUY BERN,

PRESS CONTACTS GNVA DASE @IR-MOST INFO FRON INTARZAN I)

20

SUBJ IS PEG EUGENE B. DINKIN, RA 76710222, CIRCA 24 YEARS

AGED ANOL FROM HOS COMPANY, VOS. ARMY GENERAL DEPOT, METZ,

SINCE CIRCA & NOVEMBER SUBJ SCHEDULED FOR PSYCHIATPIC EXAM 4

NOVEMBER. APPARENTLY HE ENTERED SUISSE USING INVALID ID CARD

AND FORGED E OUT OF DRIE ORDERS. WENT TO GNA HERE 6 AND 7

NOVEMBER CONTACTED, HUPBER NEWSPEN AT UNITED NATIONS PRESS ROOM,

CAVE STORY HE BEINO PERSECUTED, ALSO WISHED ALERT VORLD TO

OD YOKE PROPABARDA CAMPAIGN. IN SOME CONTACTS. HE STATED HE

FORMERLY INVOLVEO IN MONITORING CODED TRAFFIC AND HAD BEEN

TRAINESE IN CYPTOGAPHIC WORM.

CARMATT SAFES NO EVIDENCE THIS TRUE),

ALL WITH WYOM SUSJ

TALKED. ASSESSEO HIM A'S CRACKPOT. F 3714

3:0

ARMATY ALERTED ODENVY BEAN REP AND VARIOUS PEOPEE INEGNU

ING, USIS OFFICE ODENVY THRU CONTACT TO SUISS FODERAL AND

OZINAL POLICE IS SAYING CHECK FUNTER RE SURY LOCATION AN

EL IMPDET CL BY 0/2208:

CONDUCTED ON 1 6 4.6

POSSIBIL IT BES HIS ARPREHENSION AND RETURN TO DER ARMY COSTCOY.

Document: Numbs 530

for FOIA Review on APR: 1976

SEGRET

HH

53199 Dacid: 32341383/ parenT

164 63

FIN 204109148

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

---

## Page 5

56638

CLASHFIO MARNOT

= PAGR

ALL ALOVE AST SON PALIN BEFORE ARMAST GAVE STORY TO STATION LATTEP

ACTION ALMOST SIHULPANOUS HIN GAVA HASE REPORTS RE SUBJ CAPERS

8N GUVAO

4.o

USSS GNVA OFFICER INFORMED ARMATS CHUA BASE ALSO

cOY

SAME STORY IHRU SATARZAN D ENAS E NOVEMBER HE APPROACHED BY

PERSON UNO DENTIFIED SELF AS MICHAEL NO BOHERS OF 188N SOU

AND SNORED NE JOS POSSIBILITIES.

WHEN USIS OfFICER QUERIED BY

ARMATT? NOVEMBER ME SPECULATEO BOUERS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WIIN SUBJE

CHECK VITH ABUSHEN RE PHSYICAL DESCRIPTION SHONED THIS POSSIBLE

BUT NOT MINARILY SO THUS POSSIELE SQUERS D8O MANE LEGITINATE

QUERY UNILE GIUD ON LEAVE

DIRO ANONG PERSONS WHO PALRED TO SUBJ VERE ALTA DES

FONTAINES NO INSULIND, UNO APPARENLY THEN PRIED CONTACT ARMATT

BEAN 8O REPOT MASTER TO NIPOS

INFO DE INSULIN J ROLE FROM

88 ARZAN. DO

4 BLN REQUES CHICH WHETKER BOYERS ACTUALLY ASSIGNED USASA

BERLIN ARD ULETHER FESCH SUSSSE ON LEAVE.

7 DIRO QUISE ANY ACTION DESIRED. VILL CONTINUE MONITOR

DEVELOPMENTS USA ARMATT, COENUY, BAVA CONTACTS BUT NOI BECOME

INVOLVED VISAVIS INANIT SON UNLESS

SECRET.

I 53199 DocId: 32341383

Page 5

---

