# docid-32132521

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10043-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-4865

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DI

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITT.E:

DATE: 03/24/1967

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: KENNEDY, JOHN, SUSPECTS, UNKNOWN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

-

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 46101 DocId: 32132521 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-3g (Rev{5-22-04)

C

C

-

FBI

Date:

3/24/67

Transmit the following in -

6

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr.

Mahr

Mr. Wick.

Mir. Ca•por.

Mr. Caishan.

Mr.

Conrad,

Mr. Filt

Mr. G.'3

Mr.

Rotr

Nir.

Sti'

Mr.

Mr.

Tr

'er.

Tele. Room.

Miss_ Heimss

Miss Gandy.

TO:

+

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

SAC, DALLAS (89-43) (P)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

11/22/63

DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION CONCERNING

RES SA

ince.

702 2,3,5, 6

00: DALLAS

Re San Francisco airtel and teletype to Bureau dated

2/24/67.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 10 copies of an LHM

regarding interviews of ROBERT LARGEN and HERBERT DURELL

MC CORD and resulting negative investigation to locate GLENN

DAVID ROACH.

Investigation at Fort Worth, Texas, and Dallas,

Texas, was conducted by SA GERALD LEWIS GEARY.

Investigation

at Sacramento, California, was conducted by SA PETER T.

SEXTON.

Inquiries regarding MC CORD with knowledgeable

police investigators indicate he is an associate of the major

criminal element in the Dallas metropolitan area and is

completely uncooperative with any police agency. It would

appear that MC CORD purposely furnished false information

regarding D. G. ROACH, aka "Tex" Roach, believed identical to

GLENN DAVID ROACH, aS

he was unavailable for interview in the

Dallas area.

{Đi-103

Dallas Office indicesereflect HERBERT D.

MC CORD was

contacted as a PCI (Dallas file 137-88) from 9/2/52 to 12/8/52

when he was closed as information he fREighed had provea to

unreliable or of no value. c"toU.5S5+A76'5 62-109060

Bureau (Enc.

1Q

Dallas

3-27-67

Kmkidesa.MAR.sR,1967

GLG: jah

(5)

MAppy 87 Special Agent in Charge

WINCLOSET

Sent

_M

Per

NA 46101

DocId: 32132521 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 89-43

As MC CORD has indicated his unwillingness to cooperate

in this matter,

it is recommended that no further action be

taken to locate G. D. ROACH Dr recontact MC CORD, UACB.

Confidential sources, who furnished information

regarding HERBERT D. MC CORD, mentioned on Page 7 of the

enclosed LHM, are identified

as follows:

First source is

Dallas, Texas;

Second source is

P. W. HUFF INES

Third source is

2639 Ivandale,

former DL 248-C;

13216 East Illinois,

Dallas, Texas.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

2

NW 46101

Docid: 32132521

Page 3

---

