# docid-32322427

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10379-10218

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-444

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NK

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/10/1998

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/20/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32322427

330

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

#DATE: 11-14-2017

(01/26/1998)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: ROUTINE

To:

Office of Public and

Congressional Affairs

Date:

06/10/1998

Attn:

HERU

JFK Task Force

Ms. Catherine Lamey,

Room 11144

From:

Newark

Squad C-7

Contact:

SSA Rita C. Yonker, (973) 456-9330

Approved By: Megary William WEM/RUJ

Drafted By: Yonker Rita C:tr

Case IN #: 62-40-1029205-444

Title: JOHN F. KENNEDY RECORDS COLLECTION

ACT OF 1992 (THE ACT)

Synopsis: NK indices negative re additional records to provide.

Administrative:

This communication is also in reference to

Newark telcals of SSA Rita C. Yonker to Debbie Beatty on 6/8/98

and to Ms. Keeley, 6/10/98.

Enclosures: Enclosed for HERU are the following:

10 original search slips reflecting indices record

searches conducted at Newark and one copy of xerox copy of index

cards of unknown origin.

Details: The following were located:

, Regarding JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION -

62-0-20346

A review of that serial reflected that

it was

a complaint filed by one

FRANCESCO DIFANTE, Mt.

Laurel, New Jersey, who was under

doctor's care, generally complainec

about lawyer's and judges, and had no

bearing on or reference to captioned

matter.

Regarding LEE HARVEY OSWALD -

DocId: 32322427 Page 2

work cify detached

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

PDATE: 11-14-2017

To: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205-418, 06/10/1998

From: Newark

190-0-serials 1543 was identified. It had been

previously permanently charged out to "Record

Disposition

and Archival Unit" (No copy maintained by

NK) in 1990.

80 - 648

is a control file for Liaison with

United States Secret Service (USSS.) There are three

volumes of same and a review determined that nothing

had been indexed regarding LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

index cards located in General Indices reflected a

stamp which referred to 80-648, a Secret Service

liaison file.

These are printed cards of unknown

origin, and reflected the use of aka LEE HARVEY OSWALD

by EDWARD JOSEPH PATTERSON, DOB - 2/8/48, POB, Camden,

New Jersey, Social Security Number - 148-40-6255.

file can be located in Newark re this.

Records

Supervisor Phyllis Ricks advised she had no knowledge

of origin of and further advised there was no

additional indexing to 80-648.

She surmised that they

had been sent to FBI, NK by USSS.

Proud witoret

Regarding LEE HARVEY OSWALD and MARINA OSWALD -

related: files

File 105-15291, Volumes I and II, constituting entire

verified Imw.

file, were also sent to "RECORD DISPOSITION AND

7|25198

ARCHIVAL UNIT," no date reflected, no copy maintained

by NK.

NK has therefore, previously provided all information regarding

captioned matter.

All leads covered at Newark.

DOCId:32322427

Page

3

---

