# docid-32309641

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10300-10007

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-144885-4

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/12/1973

7

MR, ASSOC, BKG, ACA, SNFE, REVOLUTIONARY

CONGRESS, JAMAICA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

IW 54046 DocId: 32309641

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO. 10•

PMR (41 CFR) 101-11:8

HATED STATUSC

RNMENT

Memorandum

GO

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI ChEk

DATE: 1/12/73

FROM :

SUBJECT:

N.

SAC, MIAMI (105-10519) (P)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICA

FAND/OR

LUCIANO RIEVES

RELEASE OF

NFORMATION C

MESTRE

IN THIS DOCUMENT. < 84-927

IS - CUBA

500/154

Re Miami letter with enclosures, 12/16/65.

8-21-97

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of an LHM dated

and captioned as above.

Copies are being disseminated locally to the

following

Federal agencies:

U.S. Secret Service, Miami, Florida

NISO, Charleston, South Carolina

75211,326

Luna qu

APPROPRI

ND FIELD

-VISED RY

SLIP(S) OF

PATE S

TE

AGENCIES

ICES

UTING

4759

111th M.I. Group, Miami, Florida

Classified h

CIA, Miami, Florida

Declassity on: DADA

U.s.

Coast Guard, Miami, Florida

u.s.

Border Patrol, Miami, Florida

U.S.

INS,

Customs, Miami, Florida

Miami, Florida

OSI, Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

MM T-] is MM 974-S.

6(4)

2CE IHM TORAO

ICE IUM TO STATE, EN,

Copy t.

MM T-2 is MM 492-S.

by routing slip for

ALL.INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXOBET WEERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Et into

actiona

MM I-3 is MM 1549-KS. A(U

7/1/22

MM T. * is MM

-S.18)

(5)y

CLASSIRED BY 5668 SLAGCL

MM T-5 is

MM

1338-S

DECLASSIFY, ON: 25X CX6

JFK) 11/20/9-

Miami wiil continue

• to follow

this matter closely

and keep

the Bureau advised.

105=

144885-4

- Bureau

Miami

RJD: bja

(3)

RECE

SECRET

18 JAN 18 1973

(EnC

LOSURE®S

(RM)

copies made of SERiAL 4

2118756 AN READS.

for review at FBIHQ by,

ISCA

NASCA

RS: 12/16/17 REQUEST

FEB 2

1973

' Buy Ü.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108-02

NW 54046 DooId: 32309641

Page 2

---

## Page 3

RE: LUCIANO NIEVES MESTRE

*MM T-3 said that NIEVES claims he is opposed to

the Castro Regime in Cuba but that Castro is correct in

many things.:

NIEVES did not explain the nature of these

many things.

MM T-5, a Cuban exile who works(as a reporter 5)

lami,eon l&

Mim hellas going to holda congress in Jamaica and invited

members of the Spanish speaking press in Miami to attend*(a)

MM T-5 said NIEVES is completely discredited in the Cuban

exile community and he knows of no members of the Spanish

speaking press in Miami who plan to attend the proposed

congress.

"The Miami News", a daily newspaper published in

Miami, Florida, on January 10, 1973, contained an artical

stating that a Miami group of Cuban

exiles. planned to hold

a revolutionary congress in Jamaica to discuss a peaceful

political settlement with the Prime Minister of Cuba instead

Congress was scheduled to be held

from January 25 through 29, 1973 at Montego Bay, Jamaica.

The artical continued that the congress coordinator;

LUCIANO NIEVES, said that a delegation from Cuba would

participate and has been authorized to attend.

NIEVES said Cuban exiles must use a different

tactic with CASTRO and start from the basis that the exiles

have lost the military war.

NIEVES' group called themselves

the

"Group of the Political Opening Thesis" and delegates

were expected to represent groups in Puerto Rico, New York,

Chicago, California, Atlanta, Venezuela, Dominican Republic,

and Colombia. The Miami coordinator was listed as IVAN

GARCIA.

NIEVES said there were 50 or 60 active members

in his political opening group and that they had been

quietly obtaining support among the other Cuban exiles

for the past four years.

CO

NW 54046 DooId: 32309641 Page 3

---

