# docid-32184507

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification For'".

war.

SILVILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10240-10217

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-38431-1361

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/11/1966

21

JFK, INQUIRY, INTVS, LANE, MARK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DodId: 32184507

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: Fr1-14-2017

REPORTING OFFICE

831 Onl

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

I OFFICE OF ORIGIN

# COM

DATE

MA!:

÷ 1956

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2-113/10

:: MUS

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED I

robers tit

Go deflect the alit.

cant 10

ocing arted

ORRY BIAO,

during

252720 7058

12/lis 5. no 106.

Tallas airtels devo

8/30/04,

2nd 4/31/004

" 0S SSIN/TIO OF PISICIENT JOLIE.

11/22/3, D/LLS, TEX/S;

CONCEDTINO", Courea:

12-10020; H6 89-75

and Gallas 49-13).

9803Rdd/Jl

5pK

Case has beer: Fending cver one year

Yes → No; Pending prosecution over six months EYes @No

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

1-1allas ( 00-101u1) (Info) (17)

i-Net yor: (:00-11704)

01-105-3131)

Searched

Serialized.

Indexed.

Filed

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

105-38431-1361

-0122U

DocId: 32184507 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECR

NY 100-117844

ADMINISTRATIVE:

An extra copy of this report in being furnished

to the Bureau in the event additional dissemination

1s desired.

It is noted that the address of 75 Montgomery

Streat, which was furnished by the subject on his arrival

In the US on 2/24/65, is the home of his father, HARRY

A. INNE. It is believed that this address was given as

a matter of convenience and that aubject will return to

England in the near future.

Undess additional information

is obtained to Indicate that subject intende to remain in

the US on a permanent basis, NY le not submitting

FD 122A containing the above renidence.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

File Number Where Located

NY T-1

Detective Inspector

100-117844-1103

CHORLEY, Special Branch,

New Scotland Yard,

London,

(5)

England Tvia Legat,

London

sector to

Bureau datod 1/11/66)

NY I-2

100-117844-1108

Danich security Service](a)

(Via Logat, London

letter to the Bureau,

2/4/65)

NY T-3

100-117844-1105

ME. NELSON FRANK,

NYC Froe Lance

Welter on Labor

Matters (Request)

LEADS:

.

DALLAS (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being furnishod to

SECRET

COVER PACE

- B-

DocId: 32184507 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

Hotel.

under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44, USC 2107

FD-204 (Rev: 3-3-59)

CONEIDEA

NTIAI

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of;

Date:

Field Office File, #:

Title:

Office:

Hen Zom

MAY 1.1

N966

Bureau File *:

Character:

Synopsis:

98 3

Sb6000e

defense.

Lan

concouts

pring the cau

eduted Cor

Dio Cul

JA 130

Shout ton

Maces SuR

usts she see fair

interatess

6/297

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SECCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(6) 6F0

(her Kuor Meleone 100101763 356 dilly MII.

ENTIAI

automatic

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBi.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its' contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32184507 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-5

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

S600E0

NY 100-217041

Saaldener

on Deconber 32, 1900, NY I-1, & contidentlal

abroad, furnished

Information nhich reclooted that

ac chat vice the subjectlo scostonce and/or untling

England (S)

27 Argall panasona, Ringe Road, London,

On Fobruary 24, 1903,

Inspector WALSON

Austin, Immigration and taturalization Servieo (IND),

don t seanody tavernationa. Arport, Cucero, Now York,

novices care upon subject"s arcival in the Daltod otaton

thet date,

New Borla City.

he save nio soaldence as 75 Montgorary Streot,

B. Raptoreant

*New York Fost" cavopeper,

Janue of Narch 5,

1966, pAge 12, roflected thae dubjoat had boon rotained as

the Cofonzo dotorney foe DIVID K. ANCHILE 2252

en objector

to the currant Selective Servata 2005, mao se

to be tried

In tha United Statos Distzlou

donnochious, on March 15, 1935.

fourt (usro), forecord,

IE. INPORMARIOU ISLARIVE TO NIC

SCHEDULED FUDLICATION OR

SUBURGE'S B542S,

"RUSH TO

On Recember 97, 1995, ITY I-1, prevacuoly contioned,

edvlocd that infornation tad cora to hio

s6e0-son indicating

that cubjoet's

"muan to tudenont", desting with the

anobatnation of Prosident J014 D. HEND, DU 104300,

Tezoo on November 23, 1963, hcO

bach advorbloed in Enciand

and tos onpected to ba publionad

ahore in hard: 1902.

Foondang to 1X g-1,

"Hunh To dudgement"

world sun to

125,000 cardo. ($)(u)

ric

SECRET

DocId: 32184507 Page

---

## Page 6

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- .

MY 103-117844

da January 32, 2000, 3X 7-2,

a conaasontão2

pource abroad, furnishce o coye or the lanion neropagar,

"Lolland-Polotoro Poliret idento

15aue 01 dEGALy 4, 1960,

which tis part statod sa follors: (L)

*work Lane has nou randahed zeadine tao proote

as nad book deading tith too assaosinatioa

of Fresidont

Bonnedy and entitlod "Runb to Judgeront." (C)

having spent Chriatmas and tub Year with

peronts-In-zow, ur. dad tro, Dabolotoca, Ryling

Marit Lane

and his wass flew to Londou titore tho

to bo pubilened by Bodloy Head, Dublicharu, London,

In -Apral 1965.

air contka ofter ito epirazanoe, the

book i0 to bo

reprintod 13 2 paper-bade edition in

Coolve ecuntries.

Protozcor Trovor noot, uon

Volvorosty,

tELECOn & Drafaco to tha

39oe, acating

that in ita

evaluation of chot happenod in callos,

and Mark Lano '3

KY 8-2 furthor cdviood that subject°s bool:

rould posalbly eppear ad a period of artseled in tho

"Dally Delarrash""

, & notpopor published in fandon, England. (C)

On Fobruney 24, 1920, 17 1-3 advined Sbat Cho

Faericar

printing of

"Ruch to dragement" noo

boing propared

by Valieg Prost;

located in lot York City, Ix ©"3 atated

that da chocking

inecausoles and

the nomoceless Viting Proco bed discovered

exassorations thich they ¿crandod tho

subjood olerify.

NY 1-y covioaJ that subsecuostly the

subfoot Informed Viling Froos that he could cutco

tho

ranuceript to thats natsofactaco.

IdI.

ENFOANAEISU FOINTING TO 300J303*g

SCHEDULUD PACIUNLION OP A DOLISEAS

On Recember 33, 10%d WY Tol, providigly contiened,

advised that the subject

and 022 RICIARD LAND JRARE

planad to produce a filo to lo ontitlod,

"TooD Do Jedgement,"

hide mould to bosod on the susicela book on tho assassination

of Fronident JOHN E, IEMODY+

173 0-1 stated that & company

7(4)

DocId: 32184507

Page 6

---

## Page 7

^ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107™

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY. 109-117044

tu1 o

goare at co, thomas college, a ameri

had attended cony corantos Party 1Ger tootinge

and had taion on potato part in atscapiing

to obtain new combors for the ee.

On Juno 2B, 1995, the pocords of the

Notion Picture Accooletion of Anarton»

New Yort City, Foflected that EMIl

RE ANTONIO MaD the Dizactor and osa

of the producers of the ploture,

"Polat of Ordion"

• Inch desit nith tho

nearinge conaucted by the 1s6e

SODOLOR JOSEZU, NO CARIESY,

On January 12, 1905, DY 7-2, previolaly mentioned,

furntoasd inforcation which appoored in the Eoninh

notabegos,

"Lolland-Palators Folkatidende", Scoug of

January 4, 1906, concoming tha subject.

chat on arilale soflected that a docucontary fell-length

falne boacd on the subject's book, will bo eace in the

near futuro.

The article sled noted that tho 21lm will be

under the diraction of brute to moNto and ya11 incorporate

8 one

falas talen during and aftos the anconoiration or

Presidont IBMSDY by the inorican Drondeacties Oyston and

the Calumbia Broadesoting SyosC2,

It was posiod out chat

In Jobruary, 1966, the dubject and his asooedatoo coula

travol to Dallas, Tosas, thoro they Intendod la Locorview

mitnaseo to tha ansaonina610, (C)

In part, the above satiate reade (f, 4)

"phis film de nioo to so shoun

1n tie Vaitod

Oboten chore the manaive opponition to lift barole vieva

08 cho Iannedy tragody too doolined consadorably.

Tho

882m any poasibly ba roloaced by tha congany/ 1lled

trolato, if not, fort lore tali hire canccas in Noty

Yorke

ond callao and show tin falo there, and 20 0111 2100

alotributed to file elubo all ovez

• cho busted Stated, Cesul

On Moron 29, 1906, EES, JIN LOLLIO WILL, SHOE DIURE

Creols, Dallas, Texas,

ady3aod 000c10l Agont (24) R0I3R2

P. MaILING that during the provious weeit, obe hed been

telephoniently

contactod on covoral ducalong by an individual

identifying hlasole as DE ANTCODO, who indleated that he and

SECRET

DocId: 32184507

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

SASHAMORONE ENTAL

NY 100-117214

SECRETI

Y BORE 3OE TRANEL

On Docomber 31, 19.0s IT I-l, preploraly contioned,

advicod that on Decembar 12, 1oad, the cubjoot Copartod

England on route to Toronto, Corada, in tho carpony of

NY To1 ataved SCHNAl peburnad to kinglene en toconser 19.

1935,

Lub no intornation concesales the reture of che

aubjeot at that timo van

on Yobruary 24, 1950g Inapoetor WARDO CUDDLE,

Yor, divisch subjoot arraved in wew York tune daco ou

3:30 p.n, a8 a passenger on teand-torle vIrilnoo; 121ght

numbor 703, which eriginatod in London, Bagland.

Zappector

MGMAD advised oubject trovelled under

United Utotca

pacopast numbor 2037352, and Cavo hia United Diated oddress

75 Montgonery Street,

• Toot City.

SECRETI

LAIT

CON

FAL

DocId: 32184507

Page

---

## Page 9

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 T

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

F.D: 323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Buscos 100-009703

Not Work 100-117ehe

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New Dorita Dot York

Eng® 18y 1958

10777

Title

Dors Lane

Character

Oscurity Motter + 0

Reference

se mado to rogurt of

apootal ipont banjanin P, le Hanus, detod end

captionas as abovo.

are concealed in ree need an ate have cente edentitee

information in the past.

17y 2u3 and My t-e aro ponsidential burces

abroad. (c)

rellaule informatica.

SECRET

be distributed outside

-No.

DocId: 32184507

Page 9

---

