# docid-32310141

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10302-10085

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1423-1ST NR 127

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/10/1967

3

IID, TRA, ASSOC, MED, SUMMIT, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32310141

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

411,6 2/14564

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107

Note).

PATE : 01-311-2917

jatr. Dabando

FBI

Date:

4/10/67

Mr. Galadar

Coarse

Mr. Rais

Mr. Cala

Transmit the following in .

Via

AIRTEL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-217)

FROM:

SAC, WEO (109-73) (P)

FOREIGN POLITIÇAL

MATTERS - HAITI

IS - HAITI CLASSIFIED BY 5768 500/1500

(00: Bu)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XL.35

SECRET Col

"(Priority)

1244

DIA HAS MT ODECTION TO -

Mr.

2:3:a

Hala.

EXiso

51:225.

Faster-

DEO! ASGACTION ANDIOR

JA FORMATION

A AS COG

Sl: IM 9-15-9324

1-13-95

SLD RSIC

Classifi

10-1-97

SUKMACKSR

(JFK)

Boclassify on

- 2178-0

Enclosed are nine

as above containing information from We

copies of a Lim dated and captioned

1442-S*

It is noted that Mr.

A public relations

agent, 1612 K Street, N.W., Washington,

D.C., telephonically

furnished substantially the same information to SA HAROLD

RUBENSTEIN on 4/10/67 as set forth in the enclosures (attributed

tO DREW PEARSON) .

DAVIDSON added that his concerning in this

matter is that various business interests he represents through

several individuals in Haiti will suffer as a result of the

Schaos if Haitian President FRANCOIS DUVALIER dies suddenly.

It

is further noted that DAVIDSON in the past has expressed his

CNI/OSI/ACSI

close relationship with PEARSON and has indicated furnishing

HEARSON with information similar to that contained in the

prenclosure. It would, therefore, appear that the "good friend"

blin

wmentioned by PEARSON

in the enclosure is DAYIDSON. 2-1423

The enclosure is classified "Secret - No Foreign

Dissemination'Ysince it reveals our investigative interest

in

representative of a foreign government, a foreign diplomati

official, a foreign diplomatic establishment and since. data

therein could jeopardize the identity of the informant.

Bureau. (Enc.

(1 - 105-26678)

20:2-1423 DAVIDSON

NOT RECORDE

10400

APR 14 1967(21

CAL INFORMATION COUTA

-HEREIR IS UNCLASSIAIBI

APR 11 1967

KAGOT WHENE SHOWI

ONIGINAL FILED IN

51 APR24196

Approved:

SECRET

- 9969ul Agent in Charge

Sente

RO/D/09

Per LATIN-A

Ch

DocId: 32310141

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

April 10, 1967

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI

INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

On April 10, 1967, an informant, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advised that he learned

rrom unriqua lejera-Paris, Ambassador at the Embassy of

late with brew Pearson, newspaper columnist.

Washington, D.C. Nof a conversation he had on that

During the above conversation Pearson advised (lejera](5)

that he received information from a "good friend" of his just

returned from Haiti, who is also a good friend of Haitian

President Francois Duvalier.

This information was to the

effect that Duvalier is very ill, suffering from diabetes and

heart trouble, weighing only 100

pounds and is expected to

die within the next six months. Pearson further advised

S Tejera that his friend advised that Duvalier is bitter and (

-will đo nothing; after hisdeath, certain factions of Haitians

will be fighting each other with chaotic results.

Pearson stated that he suggested to President Johnson

that this be a matter to be discussed at the summit conference

to be held at Punta del Este, Uruguay. ejera commented that

this suggestion was "all right but not with too many there."](5)

Tejera, during the above conversation was critical

of the comming summit conference, described it as an "instant

conference, pre-cooked, everyone knowing already what they are

going to say, a meeting of 21 chiefs of state with no dramatics."

ALL IRFORMATION COSTANOI

SECRET

HERBALIS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWS

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

OTHERWISE

1-13-95

Classified by Sp& mArkse

Declassify on:

DAD

2-7-98

GROUP

1

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUME RIS

from automatio

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

declacalridation

(JFK)

2-1423

ENCLOSURE

109-12-717-

INCT ATTA

DocId: 32310141 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2103 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI

The February

7, Issue of the EDiplomatic List, iJ8(4)

Dublished bylthe United States Department of State, VeriFias

Rejera"S/title, above * 2F

This dueument containe neither

recommendallons

nor.sonclusions of

the t'BI, It is the properte of

the FBI and is loaned to your agenci,

it and its contente are not to be

distributed outaide yout agency.

SECRET

2*.=

DocId: 32310141

Page

---

