# docid-32301394

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 711 U5c 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10229

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-322

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

, DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, BA

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1963

4

LCN, EXISTENCE, MEMBERSHIP, CRIMINAL ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId:32301394

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1

SAC, BaLtimore

Director, FBI (02-0054)

LLl CADBA NOSTRA

AE - CONEPIRACT

7/3/63

MAILED 6

JUL 3 - 1963

Tolson

Belmont

Mohar

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes.

Gandy

nd Baltimore dirtel 8/23/63, captioned "Jal:

aka., AB; IGA - Numbere Lottery."

In reviewing referenced report, it is noted that

you indicate that there is no evidenoe of the existense of

captioned organimation, on any othes Italten criminal

organisation, to the Baltimore Division. Your report

indicaten that you have contacted a number of law enferse

ment officials in Baltimore and anted then 12 shay had any

knowlodge of the existence of captioned organtention basel

on their experience in criminal mattera in Baltinaro.

such source contacted reportedly had no newledge of

In Cause Nostra:

Unless an unusual eituatico existe to wish a law

enforcement official contacts your office to volunteer

intoration about the existence, nature, secavition am

membership in La Cauna Nontra, you should not approach guch

outalde officials and enter into any discussion about their

posalble knowledge of this organisation, Experience in thie

Investigation has show that infomation of value rereived.

concering captioned group has come almont enclusively aom

well-placed live informants and highly confidential sources.

COMM-FBI

The Bureau is not aware of any instance in this country where

e have received any authentic, or detailed, asts rE

his group from any law enforcenent official. Altitionall

the original inatructions regarding the nethod of condusting

this investigation cautioned you not to discurs our knowledge

•I In Causa Nontra with any outaldo groups, and that an

Informant contacte regarding this untter were to be handle

in such a way that ve rould be in a position of receiving.

and not giving, infornation concerning the entatence and

activitles of this Italian criminal organisation.

-2 : New York

- Philadelphia

REG 2

TJE: rap

(8)

92-6054-322

22 JUL 5 A1963

MAIL. ROOMI

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32301394

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(14 USe 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lettes to Baltimore

Re:: La Causa Nostre

98-6055

Considerable detail has been rocolved, both in the

Baltinore and flew York Offices, regarding the attempts of two

New York hoodlums, Pasquale Zimpols and Sal Romano, to shake

dow Julius Balsbury and other Baltimore gambling figures tos

percentages of their gambling operations, and for various

cash anounts. You have previously been alerted to fully

explore the significance of these shakedown attempts wich

regard to captioned investigation.

reserenced baitinore airtal, under the Julzus

sarsbury caption, sets torch intormation received ston

"sent down to tell frank Corbs and the rect of the guye

that they are not to bother Salsbury any nore." It is noted

that Frank Corbi is a Baltimore top hoodlum, and is recognized

by many sources as the Leading Itallan racketeer in Baltimore.

It is quite possible that the Joe Gallo mentioned is the

Joseph Callo identified by X7 3864-C-TT as a highly pleced

menber of the Carlo Cambino "fantly" in La Causa Nostra.

As you aro avaro, Cambino succeoded Albert Anastasia, on the

"commission," heads one of New York's five "families" in this

organization, and has been named by a number of sourees, in

New York, has recently zeceived intornation from

the above-nentloned low York top echolon informant that

Joseph Gallo 1s acting for Charles Dongarza, a "caporegima"

in tho Canbino "family" during the Summer of 1063. Dongarte

in a key leader in the Gambino group in that he is one of

three. Cambino "eaporeginas" who serve as a soreening board

for untters presented to Gambino.

In vior of this situation, and in reflection of

considerable previous data concerning Salabury's attempted

intervention with New Tort wacket leaders through Gerald

Nostra in New sors, au 2e o1 importance that Baltimore

appreciates the siguificance of information regarding Joe

Gallo contacting Frank Coybi and giving him orders. It 15

suggented that Baltimoro thoroughly review original Bureau

instructions in this invostigation, and that Agent personnel

handling this matter in Baltimore also review summary-type

reports prepared by the New York Office oovering this

organination on a pationwide basis.

510-10591

DocId: 32301394

Page

3

---

## Page 4

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Baltimore

Re:

La Cause Nostre

92-6054

Because of the importance of establishing the

true picture of this organization's activities in our

langor petropolitan areas, it will also be necesary that

any logical underworld source be contacted concerning the

possible notivity of this organisation in Baltimoze.

Inasmuch as our most complete and detailed date on this group

has been received fron member-sources, it will, theretore,

be both neceasary and appropriate to contact such sources

who may logically be in a position to furnish date concerning

this organization's aotivitas in the Baltinore Division.

Philadelphia, upon your next contact with PH 599-C-TT,

is to deternine the extent of this informant's knowledge

concerning the notivities of La Causa Noatra, of which he se

a veteran member, in the Baltimore and Delavare areas. It se

appreciated that in your necessarily limited contacts with

this informant you have atteupted to bring him along

gradually by discussing actavities in Philadelphia with

which ho would logically be most famillas. However, because

of his long-standing menbership in captioned organization,

and in vsew of the immediate importance of extending our

Inowledge of this organization's significance in the Baltimore

Division, you should bring this tople up with this source

upon your next contact.

York in your noxt contact with NX 3864-C-TS

is to attempt to determine first of all if the Joe Gallo

mentioned by the Baltinore souroe would logically be the

Joseph Gallo who is an associate of NY 3864-C-TT, and,

thereaftes, attenpt to develop the information received

from the Baltimoze source regarding the contacs with Frank

Corbs in Baltimore, While this New York informant may not

have any general knowledge of possible make-up of this

organination in Baltimore, he should be in a posicion to

possibly develop certain data through his contact with Gallo,

who, Anoidentally, would appeas to be informant's acting

"caporegina" during these sumer months. This is to be

dono, of course, only 11 it can be handled in such a way

that informant would not draw any suspicion to himsels

because of knowledge he would have concerning this Baltimore

matter •

The informant may have the opportunity to broach

this subject with Gallo without causing undue concert, or

during association with Gallo, the possibility extets that

Gallo might bring up the subjoot binself.

9952

DocId: 32301394

Page

---

