# docid-32323836

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90021-10034

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-5704-32

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/24/1970

9

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

JOE CAMPISI

JOSEPH CAMPISI

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/17/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

Dolid: 32323836

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

Releaset under the John F

Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy. Atsassination Records colleution Act of 1992114 USe 2107

DL 92-339

It is noted that investigative period of this

report predates that of references. report inasmuch as

results of investiation was not received at time referenced

report was prepared.

DL 135-C-TE was contacted on August 24, 1970,

by SA WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN and furnished the following

information:

During a conversation with JOE CAMPISI on 8/23/70,

he commented concerning the appointment of a Sheriff for

CLARENCE JONES, DECKER's assistant, and the one chosen to

replace DECKER.

CAMPISI also discussed the possibility

of an appointment of Assistant Chief FISHER,

Dallas PD,

and indicated that he did not like FISHER and was opposed

to his appointment.

From conversation with CAMPISI

appears

that CAMPSI has a feeling that is CLARENCRyONEs TExAS

is appointed Sheriff, CAMPISI and other bookmakers associates

with him will be able to operate in Dallas County with no

problems and for this reason is strongly in favor of Jones.

DL T-1 is 135-C-TE, contacted by SA WILLIAM B.

HOLLOMAN.

• B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32323836

Page 2

---

