# docid-32313203

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

=

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10326-10131

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/19/1964

3

JOHN ABT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32313203 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mötey

PATE: 72244,2017

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

SECRET

• 7:15:

AM

IC

James A.

Lee

W 3750-4945

Call placed to John Abit at CO 7-4611 from man named

"Winnie" Karpov in Moscow. Winnie told Abit that he will

be able, to come to the U.S. and will arrive on Feb 29.

Abit told him to make sure to go to the embassey and

turn in his passport for a certificate so that there will

be no violation of the Mc Carron act.

Winnie said that

he would make sure that he did this.

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IN UNCDAGSIFIRD EXCEP

VILERE SHORU OTHERWISE.

/10/9.

MASSFIED BY 5668-540 rude

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

Do E5199a0. 1

Dated

Date ?-19-64

Employee's Name

gu SECREL

Kic

165- 14825-131-19765)

Date Stamp.

SEARCHED...

INDEXED

SERIALIZED..

.....FILED.

• FEB 2 0 1984

FBI -NEW YORK

УрМ.

DocId: 32313203 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44-USC 2107 Hurer

*D-297

D-297 112185578-211

Time

7:45

/ Initial

am

IC

OG

1c

8:23

am

ic

Activity Recorded

Julynnn

W2134-57(5] Russ 1ar

Unfem from Fravada in Moscow to Strelnikov. She asked him

if It was possible to send something on ithe OSWALD press

conference for our

Noviet correspondents. No one it seems

has sent any telegräms. Strel said he will give them

something. de only understands something he sees. OK

Then Mr. Satukov in Moscow got on..

Strelnikov asked him

what press conference or meeting he was talking about?

The meeting. Oh, I was there,

radio"

was there, Trud was

there, Tass was there. I understand. Now Strel 1s beginning

to transfer his notes, and will send for a stenographer.

I just finished the end of the notes. Sat understands.

What did

you see? Strel said much, ok. then strol mentioned

that last nite in a NY hall Mrs. Margarita Uswald'g

attorney, Mark Lane, stated that in the FBI report to the

Warren Commission there was certain Information which

Lane

1s following and which will show that ner son did not

kill the President. One of these things is that 2 shorts.

shots were heard in the presidential cortege. Then strel

said not 2 but more

than 3 snots were neard.

Three shots

were reported by the police. The rest fe of

the conversation

was about the number of shots and the direction they came

from.

JJL

W213-525J

Kussian

Subotin in Moscow to Kuznetsov. loday is the 19th. It 1s

proposal of U

talking).

That the Atlantic bloc nations are the aggressors

against Cyprus. Ine NATO forces want to go into Cyprus.

The Cyprus delegation 1s not satisfiod with a guaranteè of

the sovereignity of the country but want to prevent lurkey

from taking part of the country. Undersecretary of

sitate

Ball was in NY and may have a new plan. Then Dean of

Great Britain spoke and urged the parties to have restraint

Kuz then said that Ball's plan

was the one rejected by

the Cypriot government.

Page

Wed

'Day...

... Date 2/19/64

Employee's Name

JJ.

L

Date Stamp

SECRET.

DocId: 32313203 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Morey.

P4T5; (12814-2017

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

SEGRET

None

(x 1519-57657

"Day Wed a PMDate 2-19-64

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

SEGRET

DocId: 32313203 Page 4

---

