# docid-32288303

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10199-10079

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/23/1961

4

GAL, PROPERTY, FINANCES, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32288303

126

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-44-U5C-2107

PATE:.11-14-2017

Hotel.

FEDERAL BURZAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 306 Y

TE

ETYPE

URGENT

2-23-61

TO DIRECTOR FBI

92-3182

18-08 PM JEG

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Mhr_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrid

Mt. DeLhe

Mr. Evans

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavell_

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room._

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

58

FROM SAC CHICAGO 92-373 4P

EX•113

stage a

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY, CHECK OF RECORDS AT COOK COUNTY

RECORDER OF DEEDS OFFICE, CHICAGO, DISCLOSED THAT WARRANTEE DEED, DATED

MAY FIVE NINETEEN FORTYEIGHT, REFLECTED THAT PROPERTY AT NINE THREE

FIVE THREE AND NINE THREE FIVE FIVE SOUTH SPAULDING WAS GRANTED TO

CHRISTINA ALEX BY ELEANOR M. BUEHR, FOR TEN DOLLARS PLUS OTHER VAL

UABLES QHICH WERE NOT NOTED. THE VALUE OF THE PROPERTY AND SALE PRICE

NOTED BY TAX STAMPS WAS THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS. THE DEED WAS TO BE

MAILED TO MRS. NO ALEX, TWO SIX ZERO FOUR WENTWORTH AVENUE, CHICAGO.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT NINE THREE FIVE FIVE SOUTH SPAULDING IS RESID-..•

ENCE OF ALEX-S BROTHER, GEORGE

LEX. INVESTIGATION CONTINUING. CHICAGO

INFORMANT SIX TWO FOUR ONE DASH C ADVISED THAT HE OBSERVED ALEX IN

COMPANY OF HENRY SUSK AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED FEMALES IN AGOSTINO-S RESTA-

URANI, SEVEN EAST DELAWARE ON EVENING OF FEBRUARY TWENTYONE

LAST. ALEX WAS NOT KNOWN BY INFORMANT TO FREQUENT THIS ESTABLISHMENT

REC- 58

IN PAST. INFORMANT OBSERVED ALEX,

ER AND 3182

3036728

THEIR COMPANIONS LEAVE ACOSTINO-S IN NINETEEN SIXTY GREEN OLDS-

MOBILE NINETEEN SIXTYONE ILLINOIS LICENSE FIVE THREE THREE ONE TWO ONE.

CORRECTION PINE 6 WORD 2 SLD BE WHICH

END PAGE

DO MARLE

196L

ce. Staffel a

DocId: 32288303 Page 2

---

