# docid-32350052

## Page 1

Date: 12/23/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10073-10178

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 59199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: C/WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

TO

: ACTING C/CONTACT DIVISION

TITLE : CASE 39300 - LITTLE KNOWN ESCAPE ROUTE FROM CUBA AND

PERSONALITIES PARTICIPATING THEREIN.

DATE: 03/24/1964

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS : CUBA

CUBAN REFUGEES

BALTIMORE SUN

ESCAPE ROUTE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/15/93

COMMENTS : JFK16 : F25 : 1993.07.15.17:11:14:710340 : PRESS

CLIPPING ATTACHED

AS THIRD PAGE.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10073-10178

HH 53199

DooId: 32350052

Page

1

---

## Page 2

aPran

Pugs 8

8 2 thanh

caarovo poa

• SuhiC

53199 DocId: 32350052 Page 2

---

## Page 3

COSIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

FROM

: 10z2ng 00308, Canecat D1r20800

Astation:

Support Brunes (8amt)

:Calos, Mabington 110rA 011480

B21EOS0 BOOLE ANNe

PartIal Non 5205010

00453, 296,664

Balk 21901

DATE: 24 Masaa 290%

Doue of tors satortion s0 Mr.

Borast B. 80055 0 B202503

20

eireurranoco.

0 aw bun ma a trat.

T00S S6 Tast

escant.

road do coarca

30

Ma gua buch nonno mea tony da tirca la sobrensy

nei on dras dura.

•& MARCO 10 MIME E

tes day baseso.

Maron lo sored on to

SECRET

CI8-183

09631

STARAT

W67-830

53199 DocId?32350052 Page 3

---

## Page 4

THE SON, BALTIMORE WONDAY MORNING MARCH 88, 1864.

PAGE A

20 DIE AT SEA,

REPORT SAYSI

Bose wish fleeing Cubans

Maches Up On Shore

For Baueachle. M10.,

March

88 VA Wicconsin tadustrlalis

nald today

he

told

that

Cubons

tao

who

ned

oralan died of starvation

their

expocuro esfore their frail crall'

cached

casoro on Grand

cay.

saan island easty sisterday.

Caly

on?

man

among

the

group

which

left

CommuniAt

Cubs eightcan days corter suf.

vited, ha said.

Ed T. Arpin. nho coid ho in o

comt-retired

industrialist

from

Nanch, Wis., returnsd here yes.

iceday will his wife, Janet, from

a 10 day rination trip to the tiny

Carlbbean Island about am iniles

couth of cabo.

Appia Tello Blory

Arpin

said

his

information

come fran the constable at Bod.

dentown, un Grond Cayman

1A-

lond, an also serves do justice

of .the

coroner.

He

could not scall the constable's

name.

Arpin sali he happened on the

Btory while ru roule trum Geurge.;

porn, prinsad city on the island.

beord a

song for

Mimi.

8'lo. He 1ail they came upon a

crack and the cunasablo ces of

the orene.

The coastoble knew the driver

af thai: cor.

wine also owns the

Portuna G.lsh, Arpin coid.

DOES DO FRORCEECTENI

"I arcas you heard about the

Arpin quored the con-

dabie oo boyng

Trag had net. he caded, and

drov to Boddentown. a shur dis-

where ho prote

wrosted

battered

23.1001

aont, lylag on its sies on chore

Aspin said is was cold the

Boat surrich 81 man end wemea.

and cry 1 man mao cive when

that 10.0p

washed actoro shortis

afto: at knight. Tro mess wile

wos asung those who dird.

Did Nos See bodies

He did not

Dee bories of the

victims and did not now if shiy

hed

• buried

0r

take: to

@corgotown. 8 miles away. Ar-

pis reported.

Arpin

described the boat Dr

noving a bleat sail rig and a i

or s-loot beam, open, and with

no protection from the eiements.

Fuse o rit club sisten days)

The constable estiniarant

earlier.

a royase that nor.

mally toked two or three days. He

opssulated that the wind changed

ced kept the frail crait at sea.

Bosth oi Cabo

Grand Cayman do 85 miles long

ne has a population of obnut i

mn. ie to 200 miles south of Ma

anacs province in Cuba and 810

mallo wost of Jamalca.

Arpin said he did not ses the

lena curvivor.

but

the constable

Bold him he sco taten in a modi.

cal plation in

dcorgetown for

treatmont.

Thoro is no lelephone carvice

do the tsland. British West Indies

Airways lies

there (rom Miami

and sab.

urday. The airline

afermation un the Cuban

coolvos reporto In sade on cl

male conditieno khare, but only

centast sia ta isinge

by eabb or and.

attackment:

+83(5) 5-296,664

Bali -21901

09631

SHH 53199

DocId: 32350052

Page :4

---

