# docid-32340658

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/26/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10051

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-92196-66

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/15/1963

3

REH, NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT, ASSOC,

ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32340658

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETI

CONF

ENTIAL

[FOR

STOTT |45)

Coples made

for review at FBIHQ by

HSCA

3•14-78

1•

HEREIN IS UNAL ARRI

WHERE SHOWN OTHERIVISE,

CLASS, & EXI.

Br 9912 Pmot

TONNAL.

11-2.4.

DISE DO

Aleslai

REVIEN

ROLA

WLAD

April 15, 1963

Nandled

#1423YN

GRAVES

BRER ROJAS

BAHAMA FILANeS

N

1963.

Reference is made te

ny communteation dated April 2,

on April 3, 1963, two officials of the 30th of Novenbes

Revolutionary

Hovenent, an anti-Castro or

the following infornation in this matter: C4))

anisation, furnished

1963, the "Wasp," a boat belonging

3Uch of loverser keve telonary nove

left Miami,

hamas.

Florida,

The following individuals vere

aboard this boat:

oopsos made

Cecilio Argelio Hurtines

Ch

UNRECORDEIO

£- 25-28 556/914

Jorge Santana

С казним

Sergio Sanches

Jesus Fernandez Hernendez

REC-50/05 - 97196-66

Eleno Ovlede Alvarez

ISCATd=2L-28pom0st• Bunelio Viera Mollineda EX

19 APR 17 1963

(See Buttle 183-117290)

Juan Reyes Morales

77211,326

Tolson

Classified by SP6BJAlGCL

78/85

The "lasp" arrived near ulnow hey on february 1u,

1263.

an to cistance to boats ware seen but it wns not know washer

these boats vere fron Miani or fron Cuba but they appeared to be

Signe-type fishing vessels.

No contact was had

botween time

"Wasp"

SMAC

these boats.

miso engountered was a larre comercial

vessel identified as the

This

boat was in the area fishing and when approached the crew identified

themselves as being fron lani and suban exties.

Senetine laser

Declassi

sange suerican comercial fishing vessels with American crews

arrived and loaned

"Second

thal

White Star of Calbarten* sone

asoline.

two, Anerican boats, departed. The "Wasp"

Balron in

Casper,

their being

ad made, no previous

there wes

Incidentall to the

being at Elber Key

Callahan

Comrad

DeLagch

-55 APR 23 1963

• London

Ben:

105-92196

Room

Liaison Unit

(lasferrer)

-VIN: s 1j

(9)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYRE UNIT

MAILED FROM DIVISION FIVE

APR16 1963

RAm/w

SECRET

TIAL

DocId: 32340658

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETI

CONF

NTIAL

[FOR STOTE ]ES)

The "Wasp» then put ashore on Elbow Key, Oviedo Alvarez,

Yiera HolLineda

and Reyes Morales, along with arus and equipent.

These, free individuals wore to guard the ars which had been burked

and hidden there until the "lasp

could go to want and return vice

another swall launch,

The launch that the "Nass" oripinally brought

was to be used to infiltrate these three individuals into Cobe.

the Launch was damaged and sunk off ilbow Ley and the plan

to use 1c vas abandoned. With the exception of the three inaividuals

1e58 On BLOOD 143

vessel to Miant. (C)

te entire erew of the "Wasp" returned aboard that

captured by the Cuban Govertent.

individunls that were left on the island, the 30th of November

Revolusionsry Nevenent believus that the other five persons captured

were fisherson and had no knowledge or anything to do with the

infiltration plan. (C)

On February 35, 1963, several ne

bers of the 30th of

Novenber Revolusionary lovegent rented a plane and visited Blbow Key

They steera, no that all oo be are had end to oh previous embers.

buried there were sta there except for three pistols, a rifle,

a portable radio receiver and sons pots and pans. (LL)

After the news of the capture of the eight individuals

an American adventurer and mercenary

and Close friend of Uviedo Alvares, cane to the office of the

30th of Novenber Revolutionary Moverent and souglit details of

the capture along with pietures of the individuals and other

evidence so that he could engender publisity which would facilitate

the collection of money to be used to free those captured. The

30th of Novenber Revolutionary lovesent declined Hargreyes offer

and put him out of the office. Neither Haryrayes por his associates,

soldier of fortune and mercenary Gerald Patrick lieuning, or Miant

attorney Charles R. Astmann, had ay previous knowledge of the

it to lo plan, ate toe Bette pationed be field, a connetion

with i5. According to the shove-mentioned officials,

ouncements to tie press and television are completely untrue.

SECRET:

2

CONBAENTIALI

105-92196-66

DocId: 32340658 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CONTKENTIAL

S)

On April 3,

42680

prain of a fishing vessel

MEGA 1S 60 SASCEE SAID 01 21

"Second White Star of Calbarien"

Ile advised he personally knew each menber of

the crew of the

five of then whose pictures appeared in the Cuban prese mong

the eight captured es crew members of this vessel. Ile did not

lenow the gther, three nesbers reported captured by the Cubans

who were identified Buove

nenbers of the 30th of Noverber

Revolutionary Movement. A(u)

139032

SECRET

(BAITINOS CONEENTIALI

105-92196-66

DocId: 32340658 Page 4

---

