# docid-32168164

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144

uSe

107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54027

late: 08-29-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10164-10141

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-8158

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1980

PAGES: 13

SUBJECT: JFK, ASSA, INQUIRY, REFUSAL, TO RETURN, CIA, CODE LIST

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/30/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC FBI LHM AND LIST

NW 54027 DocId:32168164 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

[ TOP SECRET

J SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

• UNCLAS EF TO

→ UNCLAS

Date 2/27/80

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

BH 29194 As bracketes

980S ROO, GAT 2/27/94 JFK

M?.2

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, WFO (89-75) (RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF. PRESIDENT

"JOHN FITZGERALDEKENNEDY,

DALLAS, TEXAS, NOVEMBER

22, 1963;

INFORMATION CONCERNING (A)

(00: DALLAS)

Re Sacramento Airtel to Bureau dated 12/31/79.

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and

five copies of a self explanatory lettherhead memorandum

(LHM), regarding the interview of Richard N. Billings,

conducted on 2/11/80.

Also enclosed is a typewritten

sheet containing the

code list that Billings obtained.

• Enclosed for Dallas are two copies of the same

above memtioned LHM.

For Bureau information, on 2/11/80, Richard N.

Billings was interviewed regarding the requested informatior

in department memorandum to Director dated 11/21/79, under

Roman Numeral Number II.

In essence,

Billings advised

to the best of his recollection he does not recall

refusing to return a handwritten code list back to

Sergeant Garland Dale Fore, Madera County Sheriff's Office

Chowchilla, California,

that he received

from him in the

early part

of January

or February of 1979.

Additionally,

he does not recall making any statements that the codes

were classified

government codes and listed

as top security

He then advised

statements on page

not accurate.

ALY INFORMATION CONTAINED

Bureau (Enc.

Dallas (Enc.

1 - WFO

RIO O4 DATEZE

ASSEE RS)

SAT

UFK)

8158

FES 29 1980

GNF : vas

(5)

Approved:

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

MH 50027 DocId: 32168164

Page 2

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 3

United States

Department of State

Department of Defense

Navy

FBI

CIA

Clandestine services

FI Staff

CI Staff

"Cas" operations

'OD - YOKE

OD-ACID

OD - EARL

OD-OATH

OD-ENVY

KU-BURK

(U)

CLA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/QR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

N THIS DOCUMENTAS bracketer

18. 2901

980З MOD GAT 2214Y M

XCEPT GRACILETS

ALL' INFORMATION CONTAINED

5K/K55- 3-30-98 (JFK)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

AE

BE

DI

DN

SM

DN

Soviet Union

Poland

Czechoslovakia

Yugoslavia

United Kingdom

South

Korea

AE-Ladle

AM-B100 d

AE -

Jammer.

Cuba

(8)

Broom are for operations against the Soviets

2.271

Wassilie

N: 9903 RUNSAT

i Deriasaty. 0f.

DADA

(FK

HH 54027 DocId: 32168164 Page 3

62-109060-8158

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

---

