# docid-32299893

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10226-10173

HQ

92-6054-2361

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/11/1968

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEETING, HOUSE OF CHAN RESTAURANT, NY,

RACKET LEADERS, ABR, CGA, JAC, ARRESTED, LOITERING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32299893

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

Released uner the JOhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Môte).

DATE:

12749-2027

VIA TELETYPE

JUL 1 1 1968

ENCIPHERED

Tolsort

De Loath

Mr.

Mohr.

Mr.

Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahar

Mr. Conra

Mr. Felt y

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

WA

PH

OFBI. NEW YORK

7:15 PM URGENT: 7-11-68 AWS

TO DIRECTOR AND PHILADELPHIA (CODE)

FROM NEW YORK 92-2300

D

Lá Cosa Nostra Anti-racketeering

LON-AR.

Grate

9.178

AT APPROXIMATELY TWO THIRTY PHONY FIVE

FIVE NINE THREE-C-TE ADVISED A MEETING WAS TO TAKE

PLACE AT THE HOUSE OF CHAN RESTAURANT, FIFTY SECOND

STREET AND SEVENTH AVENUE, NEW YORK CITY, BETWEEN THREE-

THREE THIRTY PM. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT PRESENT AMONG

OTHERS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE ANGELO BRUNO, JOSEPH COLOMBO

AND CARLO GAMBINO. IMMEDIATE SURVEILLANCE BY THE NEW EX-103'

YORK OFFICE WAS INSTITUTED AND NEW YORK FAMEY HEADS 92-6054-2361

COLOMBO AND GAMBINO AND PHILADELPHIA HEAD BRUNO

AS WELL AS GENOVESE CAPOREGIMA VINCENT ALO,

AND

# JUL L8 1968

COLOMBO SOLDIER JOHN SCIMONE AND GAMBINO SOLDIER

END PAGE ONE

58 JUIF241868

DocId: 32299893 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 *

PAGE TWO

THOMAS MASOTTO WERE IDENTIFIED SEATED

IN

THE RESTAURANT.

THIS INFORMATION WAS DISSEMINATED TO INSPECTOR ROBERT

New york dote

Central tutellige DictaN THE AFOREMENTIONED

Bolice Repartment

MC GOWAN, CIB, NYCPD, WHO HAD

ARRESTED AND CHARGED WITH VIOLATION SECTION TWO FOUR

ZERO, NEW YORK PENAL LAW, (LOITERING) •

MC GOWAN ADVISED

THEY

WERE BOOKED AT THE EIGHTEENTH PRECINCT AND IT WAS

NOTED THEY HAD LARGE AMOUNTS OF CASH ON THEM WHEN

ARRESTED. NEW YORK WILL ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE REASON

FOR MEETING IF FEASIBLE THROUGH NEW YORK FIVE FIVE

NINE THREE-C- TE. NEW YORK CLOSELY FOLLOWING. BUREAU

WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

END

WA••:oLRC

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32299893

Page 3

---

