# docid-32145682

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10077-10059

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-207

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: SAC, SJ

TO

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 11/26/1963

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: JR, AFFIL, LABOR

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/02/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

vans

Sulliv

Tave

Trotter

DECODED COPY

J AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO

URGENT

11-26-63

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC DALLAS

FROM SAC SAN JUAN 270027

11,2

JACK LEON RUBY, AKA; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA - VICTIM -

DECEASED. CIVIL RIGHTS. 00: DALLAS.

RESJRAD NOVEMBER 26

INSTANT.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE. AT SU, PRO_SARANC

TORRES

PERAL TAS

PCI, AN ATTORNEY FOR LOCAL 610, HOTHE

RESTAURANT WORKERS

UNION (HRWU), SU, ADVISED SA ROYAL L. BLASSINGAME ON SaN JUaN,

NOVEMBER 26 INSTANT: ANA MARIA: DEL VALLE, SECRETARY

TREASURER, HRWU

• WAS APPROACHED BY MIGUEL CRUZ, ORGANIZER

FOR LOCAL 201 TEAMSTERS UNION (TU) WHO MADE A STATEMENT,

"NOW" THAT WEIVE TAKEN CARE

OF PRESIDENT RENEDT, WE'LL

HAVE NO TROÜBLE IN TAKING OVER THINGS."

PERALTA ALSO FURNISHED ABOVE INFO TO THOMAS A. KENNELLY,

DEPARTMENTAL ATTORNEY, US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, WASHINGTON.

DETAILS: AT SU, PRO POSSIBLE CONNECTION BETWEEN JACK

LEON RUBY AND TEAMSTERS UNION (TU) • THE FOLLOWING INVESTI-

GATION WAS CONDUCTED BY SAS LA VERNE J. MOORE AND ROYAL L.

BLASSINGAME.

SEN JuAN

P.R.

ANA MARIA DEL VALLE, SECRETARY - TREASURER. LOCAL 010,

HOTEL AND RESTAURANT WORKERS UNION

(HRWU) ADVISED ON

NOVEMBER 26, THAT THAT SHE IS WI WITH MIGUELACRUZ

AS AN ORGANIZER EAR LOCAL 901 TEAMSTERS UNION (TU), SU. SaN JuGa, PR.

ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1963, AT ABOUT 5 PM, MIGUEL CRUZ

MADE THIS STATEMENT TO HER:

"THEY KILLED KENNEDY AND THE

SECOND WILL BE RAMOS DUCOS."

LEOPOLDO* RAMOS DUCOS IS PRESIDENT OF LOCAL 610, HRWU•

Hotel ind Restaurant workers Inian

BEULEITAHATUATONIEAINA

SEN JuAN, P.R.

REC- 38•

44-24016-207

22 DEG 2. 71963

59982 intRoigante 32lx5682 treageuRnessage is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

) paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

---

