# docid-32211066

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATLON Released under the John

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

179-40004-10070

RECORDS SERIES

08: NUMBERED COMMISSION DOCUMENTS

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

..

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: 03/09/64

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD, LEE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

: COMMENTS :

P. 1-3; 3. COPIES; BOX F02

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32211066

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Commission No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

664

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

BONFEA

March 9, 1964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DECLASSIFIED BY

9803 RDD/KSA

09 3-17-93.

On January 4, 1964, a confidential source, who has

furnished reliable information in the past, advised

that a

check was made on this date at Teiegrafos

Nacionales, a

Mexican Government-owned telegraph system, which handles

traffic with Western Union Telegram and other United States

cable companies to determine whether LEE HARVEY OSWALD sent

or received any money during the time he was in Mexico from

September 26, 1963, to October 3, 1963.

received money in Mexico.

on January 13, 1964, ALFONSO FRIAS, Assistant Chief

of the Bank of Mexico Police at Mexico, D. F., Mexico, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, advised that

a check of the records of Telegrafos Nacionales had failed to

disclose any record of money sent or received by LEE HARVEY

OSWALD during the time he was in Mexico through use of communi-

cation channels handled by this Mexican Government-owned

telegraph system.

CONEIDENTIAI

ExcLuded An Automatic

Downgrading and

Declassification

HH 54653 DocId:32211066 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDE

N

IAL

FRIAS advised also that a complete check of three

banks, Banco del Pais, S. A., Banco de Comercio, S. A., and

Banco

de Londres y Montreal

in Mexico, failed to disclose any

recora of money sent or received by LEE HARVEY OSWALD to these

banks.

FRIAS advised also on January 13, 1964, that a check

of records of all other banks in Mexico was continuing.

On January 17, 1964, FRIAS advised that a check of

records of all banks in

Mexico, D. F., Mexico, had been completed

and no information was found that OSWALD had sent or received

money during

the time he was in Mexico.

On March 6, 1964, FRIAS advised that all banks in

Mexico, including all branch banks, were checked officially

fOr LEE HARVEY OSWALD and no information was available that

OSWALD had received and

sent any money through these banks

during the period in which he was in Mexico.

FRIAS advised that these banks included not only the

three listed above but also

the following additional banks:

Banco Nacional de Mexico

Banco Mexicano, S. A.

Banco Comercial Mexicano, S. A.

Banco de Londres y. Mexico, S. A.

First National City Bank, Sucursal en Mexico

Banco de America.

FRIAS advised also that the above check made of all

records of Telegrafos Nacionales and of all banks in Mexico

CONFIDENE

IAL

-2 -

NH 54653 DocId: 32211066 Page 3

---

## Page 4

i..

could not include any possibility of money sent or received in

Mexico if OSWALD had used any name

other than that of LEE

HARVEY OSWALD or his aliases which include

the names of

0. H. LEE and ALEK JAMES HIDELL.

enerosers

=3.

HH 54653 DocId: 32211066

Page 4

---

