# docid-32304832

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10462

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-4312

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54463 Date: 10-12-2017

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/15/1965

14

CC, ACA, ASSOC, FINANCES, MEMBERS, JURE, CONSPR,

ASSA, CUBAN EXILES, INTV, PENA, FELIX RAFAEL PELAEZ,

CHELALA, JOSE SALVADOR PRINCE, DESCR, BKG, REL,

EMP, AKA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

14 54463 DocId: 32304832 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

MM 105-10278

they believe the best and most expeditious means of ridding

Cuba of Communism is to overthrow FIDEL CASTRO.

In this

regard, they have stated the assassination of FIDEL CASTRO

and his brother, RAUL CASTRO, would probably be the most

expeditious way

to overthrow

the Government of Cuba,

especially since ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA, former top

official of the Government of Cuba, is

no longer connected

They further stated that both FIDEL

and RAUL CASTRO are heavily guarded, and believe the

assassination of these men would be extremely difficult,

if not impossible, unless given the support and assistance

of another government, not necessarily the U. S. Government.

It is also noted this investigation was opened

by the Chicago Office in 6/65 when the complainant

Subsequent

however, after obtaining authorization to interview CONTE

AGUERO, he stated the alleged plot was merely talk or

confidence game.

CIA furnished Lu)

additional information, but indicated they desired the COU

principals reportedly invo]

red. should not be interviewed

by the FBI at that time. e

As noted

in the enclosed LHM, interview of PRINCE

and PELAEZ, two principals in this alleged plot, reflect

the

matter

is merely talk and wishful thinking on their

part.

Investigation of associates and informants tends

to confirm the alleged plot was merely idle conversation.

It is also noted CIA has declined to divulge their source,

or the names of any others who might be involved in the

Paa. 1.

CIATE

"dried up" the source, and the

alleged plot had been

either discarded, or the principals knew where the

"leak of information"

anymore about it.

Op, and were not telling ClA

source.

Confidelitial informants contacted negatively

for any information regarding any alleged plans to

MM

192-S, by SA JANES D. HAYES: 4)

CONFE

2.

YET

Suicis

54463

DocId: 32304832

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-10278

NTIBENTIAE

MM 815Js Xby SA EDWIN L. SWEET;

MM 635-S, by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, Jr.;

MM 639-S, by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, Jr.;

MM 776-S, by SA PETER J. NERO.

EESECRET

=..

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

HW 51463 DocId: 32304832

Page 3

---

