# docid-32170712

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10172-10031

HQ

105-82555-3686

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, BN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/08/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

LHO, GENERAL WALKER, TELEPHONE INTV, SMOYAZIN, WERNER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

12/30/1998

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32170712

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colbegtion Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

* GEN. REG. NO. 21

VITED STATESES

EOVERNMENT

Nemorandum

TO

: Director, FBI (105-82555)

DATE:

5-8-64

Mangon: Legat, Bonn (63-36)

ALL IBFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

(Р)

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SUBJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

IS - R - CUBA

BRACKETS CLASSIFICO

PER BONN EC

8-22-48

Re Bonnlet 4-21-64.

JOMEDCLASSIFED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

2.28 48 DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_6

On 4-30-64, Mr. [Verner Smoydzin, Assistant Chief (JFK).

Right-Radicalism Division of the Bundesamt fuer Verfassungs-

XBfV - West German

Federal Agency for the Protection

f the Constitution), furnished the following information byC

elephone as an interim report regarding the status of th

BfV efforts to locate the source of the information in the

"Deutsche National-Zeitung

FeAS

5/15/65

an ok: 7 or unre

that it had been determined

was still in

Dallas, Texas

Edwin a

the reporter who had written

located and interviewed.

According to his preliminary

information,

statement in the article to the effect that

Oswald had been

the one who had shot at Walker was based onc

an assumption made from information obtained from Walker

during the course of the telephonic interview.

said that Oswald had shot at him, but had

to the fact that he had been shot at.

The reporter

reached his own conclusion that Oswald had been responsible

for this shooting:

The second portion of the article which

refers to the Attorney General's

having: stopped the investigation

was added, according

the reporter, by the editors of the

newspaper.

510/93

Classified b

•CAT

Declassify an: DADA JFK

5 - Bureau

DON IME OR Liaison)

PFC Bonn

171131202

REC- 33

Classified by

ation Iridefinite

105-82555

3686

1 ДоЇ

COMFIDENTIAL

4'5: 9 MAY 19.1964 8e

JM51200

• MAY Z8 1964:

SOVIET SECTION

JJ

DocId: 32170712

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the "John. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC (2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Bonn

62-36

CONFIDENTIAL

Mr.

Smoydzin

Said that he hoped to have the

full results of

the article in question was based on assumptions of the

reporter

and the editors and was not based

on

information obtained in the United States

any

factual

CONFIDENTIAL

-

DocId: 32170712 Page 3

---

