# docid-32201997

## Page 1

Date: 06/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10108

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

-------=

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

¢44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, MIAMI

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

DATE : 05/25/65

PAGES : 8

SUBJECTS :

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

CUBA

CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

WH 54653 DocId:32201997 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SSCI BOX i

377.=

RE: MILITARY AND NAVAL MATAERS - CUBA

of the Merchant Marine.

"Bohemia" stated

ten 13,000 fon ships are under

construction for cuba and two special refrigerator ships

are being built with a capacity of 60,000 cubic feet. Two

725 ton ferries with capacity of 500 passengers each are

allegedly under construction to handle the maritime traffic

between Cuba and the Isle of Pines.

Difficulties Between Cuba and the Isle of Pines

MM T-2, & source with many years. experience

2

as both a-private h. police invest cuter who. mutas

contact with some sources st111 in Cuba,

advised on

April 26, 1365, that maritime communication between the

nonts of wueva carond. 15lo of. Dines and Batabaro, southeri

port in the Province of Havana, 1s being handled at the

present time by five ships but with considerable irregularity.

Three of these ships, "Isla del Tesoro"

"pinero", and the

"W11l1am J. Mills"

, are ferries and carry passengers and

vehicles.

Two ships,

"Borgos Uno"

and "Bongos Dos"

transport cargo only.

All of these vessels are in very poor condition

and are continually having to be towed to port from the

middle of their crossing bocause of serious break-downs

in their machinery.

Repairs needed are urgent but it

is impossible to effect

them Immediately because of the

lack of replacement parts.

The ohe most frequently

experiencing break-downs 13 the largest,

"Isla del Tesoro"

which 1s used by the government to transport troops between

Nueva Gerona and Batabano.

This ferry can carry 900 to

1000 passengers and up to

30 vehicles depending on their

size: There are also two planes assigned to handle cargo

and passengers between the airports of Nueva Gerona

and/or Siguanea.

The airport of Siguanea 1s approximately

RECEIVED FROM

?.

MAY :: 1978

HH 54653 DocId:32201997 Page 2

---

