# docid-32292486

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10209-10262

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1012

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/09/1964

5

GAL, RES, GIRL FRIEND, TRA, ASSOC, ACT, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292486

Page 1

418

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350. Sub-I

The following verbatim conversation then was

carried on by ALEX, LADON and SUSK concerning an apparent

attempt by two individuals to either gain access to ALEX'

apartment or photograph the lock on his door.

It is pointed

out that subsequent contact with the building manager of

ALEX' apartment indicates that the two unknown individuals

were very possibly Chicago police officers who either at

this time or some future time desired to gain entrance to

ALEX' apartment:

GUS: The door man says I'll know them anytime,

he said I got a good 100k at them.

HENRY: That's just what I was going to ask you,

when they got downstairs, what did they do downstairs?

GUS: They were up here, they got past the door

man and the desk people how they got up the elevator I

don't know.

BUTCH; Were they in the basement?

GUS: No, they headed towards the door that leads

to the basement but a guy said "Where are you going?"

HENRY: They didn't know the door to get out.

So they said we're looking for downstairs.

So they're

laying

for them now.

The building manager wants to see

me.

I'd cause a lot of trouble by giving their names..

Cause this guy can identify them, the guy that saw them.

He said I knew they were phonys so I followed them.

said they stood at the crossing see, and made out like

they were going to another building, then they walked to

the corner. He said I knew they were up to something.

EDDIE: I'm trying to understand it.

HENRY: They must have had a new.....

GUS: They wanted to bug this apartment, I think

to bug that particular apartment to find out what you talk

about.

HENRY: Oh hell yes they got to. But they don't

have to go through the door to bug it.

look up stairs, they

may have a guy up stairs, so all right what have they got

after that?

-3-

DocId: 32292486 Page 2

---

