# docid-32293070

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10346

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-197

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/30/1961

7

CM, SOURCE, BUSS ACT, INTERNATIONAL TIME INC.,

MORRISON, DELESSEPS, B/F INT, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, A/T

v9.1

NW 45855

26

DocId: 32293070

Page 1

---

## Page 2

8/10/61

AIRTEL

TO: SAC, New York (92-812)

FROM: Director CPe: 82-2713) - 197

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka.

(00 - NO)

JUL 1 0 10

• Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

COMM-FBI

Re New York airtel 6/30/61 enclosing letterhead memorandum

regarding Delesseps Morrison.

New York should maintain close contact with PCIL

for further developments involving Morrison and Albert Emke in

International Time, Inc., and possible involvement with this organization

by Carlos Marcello. You should also attempt to further identify (FNU) Diaz,

a Venezuelan national, des cribed in your airtel. Particular emphasis

should be placed on whether or not the underworld is investing money in

this organization.

New York should further identify Emke through

for

the benefit of New Orleans and the Bureau to determine if he is identical

with Albert Joseph Emke, former president of the Hibernia Homestead

and Savings Association (HHSA), New Orleans, Louisiana. Emke of the

BHSA of New Orleans has been the subject of a Federal Reserve Act case

by the Bureau, and according to latest correspondence from New Orleans

in this case, trial of Emke and associates for embezzlement of funds'

from the HHSA is scheduled for July 18, 1961, at New Orleans.

New Orleans should insure that the Bureau is appropriately

informed of any further developments concerning International Time, Inc.,

and possible involvement in this organization by Carlos Marcello.

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

2 - New Orleans (92-36)

-1-29-28098 20898

TLG:Swb

(7)

siub

21

1-304

MAIL ROOM

'; 5

TELETYPE UNIT

A1

HW

45855 DocId: 32293070

Page 2

OTHER 4

ITNDECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

NOTE

Allegations previously received but not substantiated that

organization. ITI reportedly involved ininternational oil scheme to

purchase Venezuela oil at reduced price and sell same to European

countries. Oil to be shipped directly from Venezuela to Europe and

ITI only handling finances and deals regarding legal transactions.

PCI

advises the scheme being formulated through the intervention

of Delesseps Morrison who was recently appointed by President Kennedy as

Ambassador to the Organization of American States. By virtue of Morrison's

appointment and through his contacts in Venezuela, he allegedly is to have

a law passed by the Venezuelan Government enabling this oil to be sold

for $161 a barrel, whereas the current posted price is $2.50. The oil is

to be purchased by ITI and resold at approximately $1. 66 a barrel.

OTHER

4

RET C: 1821005

W2!:

190178? 2AV02

HW

45855

DocId: 32293070 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ED-36 (Rev: 12-13-56):

FBI

Date:

6/30/61

REX 4

endl

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or, code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR; FBI (92-2773)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (92-812)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CARLOS

MARCELLO aka

AR

(00: NO)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2, 251D BYAL

226,

Rereport SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN, NO, dated

5/5/61.

Enclosed for the Bu are the original and

four copies of a letterhead memo, captioned "DELESSEPS MORRISON"

dated 6/30/61, at NY.

Enclosed for NO are 2 copies of the letterhead

memo.

The source mentioned in the enclosed letterhead

memo is PCI

who further advised that on

6/29/60, that he accompanied ALBERMEWKE to the office of

Attorney JAMES

CALLY, 150 Broadway

NYC, and that CALLY

was retainea by

MikE to go to Venezuela and set up the

deal mentioned in the letterhead memo.

CALLY was to be

accompanied by (FNU) DIAZ, a Venezuelan national, who was

to make the contact with the Ministry ardrocarbon.

3-Bureau (92-2713) (Encls. 5)

2-New Orleans (Encls. 2)1

77.

1-New York (92-812)

at Paran.one

2713-194

DO JUL # 1961

2. ale

lite

2Ce

TUG

MDM: JM

(7)

REC- 4

b ENCLOSURE

EX-111

lE C E Wick

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per •

daf

•OTHER 4

Spe

cial Agent in Charge

HW

45855 DocId: 32293070

Page 4

---

## Page 5

• :.

.?.

NY 92-812

CALLY and DIAZ were to fly to Venezuela from NY.don the

evening of.7/2/61.

further advised that even though he is a

personal friend of ALBERT EMKE,

that he has never entered into

a business deal with him that has been comsumated and that

he has no way of being assured that this deal will go through.

He stated that he will inform the NYO of any pertinent

developments in the matter.

He stated that EMKE plans to

return to New Orleans by plane on 6/30/61.

advised that the name of CARLOS MARCELLO

was not brought up in connection with this matter.

NYO indices are negative re Attorney JAMES

CALLY.

OTHER 4

=?

•!.

-

2

NW 45855 DocId: 32293070 Page 5

---

## Page 6

...*

• ..

10.At ..

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNTIED STATES DEPARTMENT OL-JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

June 30, 1961

Re: Delesseps Morrison

A confidential source,

who has supplied reliable

information in the past, furnished the following information

concerning captioned individual:

On June 29, 1961, the source was contacted by Albert

Emke of New Orleans, Louisiana,

a social acquaintance of his,

and was informed by Emke that he wished to have the source enter

ca, a company incorporated under

the Laws of New York State,

à vehicle by which a large

amount of Venezuela oil could be bought at reduced prices

and sold for a profit to European countries.

Emke told the source that the reason that this oil

could be secured cheaply was that Delesseps Morrison, former .

Mayor of New Orleans and recently appointed as Ambassador to

the Organization of American States,

was able, through virture

of his

appointment, secure this oil.

This source stated that Emke told him that the

supply of oil was owned by the Venezuelan Government and

administered by the Bureau of Hydrocarbon, which secured the

oil as payment of royalties.

Emke outlined the deal to the source as follows:

COPIES DESPROYAN

BHE MaY 17

92-2113-191

ENCLOSUR

NW 45855 DocId: 32293070 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Through the intervention of captioned

individual, a law would be passed by the Venezuelan

Government

sold for $1.61 a

barrel.

The posted price for a barrel of oil is

currently $2.50.

The oil would be purchased by

InternatioralTime Incorporated (ITI) and resold to

foreign countries at approximately. $1.66 a barrel.

The oil

would remain in Southe America until sold

to foreign governments who would then transport it

to Europe for refining.

The oil would never be brought

to the United States,

ITI would handle the financing,

and the profits would be deposited

under a number

The sale of the oil would

Morrison, who possibly would be compromised if his

participation in the transaction were discovered.

Morrison was to receive half the profits made in the

transaction.

The source said that all the above

information was told to him by Emke, whom he knows

to be a close friend and associate

of Morrison.

2

-

910310101

NW 45855 DocId: 32293070 Page 7

---

## Page 8

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UN. ED STATES DEPARTMENT OL, USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

June 30, 1961

Re: Delesseps Morrison

A confidential source, who has supplied reliable

information in the past, furnished the following information

concerning captioned individual:

and was informed by Emke that he wished to have the source enter

the source was to use

International Time Incorporated, a company incorporated under

the Laws of New York State, as a vehicle by which a large

amount of Venezuela oil could be bought at reduced prices

and sold for a profit to European countries.

Emke told the source that the reason that this oil

could be secured cheaply was that Delesseps Morrison, former

Mayor of New Orleans and recently appointed as Ambassador to

the Organization of American States, was able, through virture

of his appointment, secure this oil..

This source stated that Emke told him that the

supply of oil was owned by the Venezuelan Government and

administered by the Bureau of Hydrocarbon, which secured the

oil as payment of royalties.

Emke outlined the deal to the source as follows:

HW 45855 DocId: 32293070

Page 8

---

