# docid-32306844

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10290-10484

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2494

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 01/20/1969

"PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, INDUCTION, CEREMONY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306811

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 No

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI.

Date:

1/20/69

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-1027) (P)

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR •

Re Philadelphia letters captioned, "JOSEPH SCAFIDI,

it

12/11/68 and 1/7/69, and Philadelphia letter captioned,

"JOSEPH J. PERELLA,

aka, AR," 1/10/69, and- Philadelphia phone

call to Newark 1/17/69.

Referenced communications have kept Newark Division

advised of a possible induction ceremony Philadelphia Family

ICN according to information received from PH 672-C-TE, a

member source, by SA J. ROBERT PEARCE.

Source, who is in the

regime of JOSEPH SCAFIDI, believes that he personally will be

invited by SCAFIDI to attend this induction ceremony. Source

has no objections and does not feel his relationship with the

Bureau will be jeopardized nor will he be placed in danger

if he is arrested at attendance of such a meeting. In con-

tacts with JOSEPH SCAFIDI informant has learned that JOSEPH

Bureau (92-6054) (RM)

4 - Newark (RM)

2 - 92-1203

1-92-1809

1

- 92-2776

(JOSEPH SCAFIDI

(JOSEPH PERELIA

4 - Philadelphia

1 - 92-1027

1

- 92-1331

(JOSEPH SCAFIDI)

92-2045 (JOSEPH PERELLA

1-

137-4049. (PH 672-C-TE)

92-6054-2494

2A JAN 2 1 1969

JRP: kma

(11)

-

Approved: Bisho

56 JAN 27 1969

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306844 Page 2

Sent

_M

Pe

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(11 USC 210

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027

SCAFIDI has no alternative but to attend the meeting; that the

meeting will be on a Sunday and will be held at the La Rosa

Restaurant, Vineland, N.J., owned by JOSEPH PERELLA (subject

01 Bufile

for induction at the forthcoming induction meecing.)

On Saturday, 7/18/69, informant contacted IGNATIUS

DENARO, Underboss Philadelphia Family of ICN, for messages

to be delivered to JOSEPH SCAFIDI who source

intended to see

in person Bridgeton, N.J., 1/19/69. DENARO told source te

tell SCAPIDI,

It we do not meet this weekend I might send

something up

to him." Informant explained DENARO's comnents.

DENARO meant that if he meets with JOSEPH SCAFIDI in person

the forthcoming weekend, 1/25-26/69, then DENARO personally

will turnover to SCAFIDI SCAFIDI's proportionate share of

the profits of illegal gambling activity in which DENARO,

ANGELO BRUNO, SCAFIDI and others operate

as a partnership.

If this meeting does not take place the "something"

meaning

money and possibly records, will be delivered to JOSEPH

SCAFIDI by the source.

informant said that he would accordingly

contact IGNATIUS DENARO on Saturday morning, 1/25/69. If

DENARO gives him money or accounting of profits of numbers

activity to deliver to JOSEPH SCAFIDI then the induotion

ceremony probably will not take place weekend of 1/25-26/69.

Ir on the other hand, DENARO indicates he will see JOSEPH

SCAFIDI in person the ceremony will probably be held Sunday,

1/26/69.

Source on night of 1/18/69, telephonically contacted

JOSEPH SCAFIDI and advised him of the above and did not see

SCAFIDI in person 1/19/69.

The above is to alert Newark Division of the possibility

of this induction ceremony.

Philadelphia at the present time

cannot obtain any more exact information as to time but is

following this matter closely and will keep the Newark Division

informed of developments.

- 2 -

DocId: 32306844 Page 3

---

