# docid-32303403

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10283-10415

HQ

92-2717-911

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1963

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

ABR, TRA, ITALY, ASSOC, LCN, B/F INT, RACK ACT, TESUR,

MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

04/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303403

Page 1

322

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

val bein

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEI

FBI

Date:

4/16/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)

SAC, PHITADEIPHIA (92-1444)

ANGELO BRUNO, aka.

(00: PHILADELPHIA)

ANGELO BRUNO's prolonged absence from Philadelphia,

presently visiting

Palermo, Italy, confirms for sources

PH 591-C* and PH 614-C-TE that PETER MAGGIO handling BRUNO's

legal business interests while PHILIP TESTA is handling BRUNO's

illegal interests.

MAGGIO, during the current week at BRUNO's

request pressured RAYMOND

MARTORANO and today collected $8,000

from MARIORANO for payment due BRUNO from sale Penn Jersey

venaing, Inc., service contract.

LEstA apparently acting as

number two man in Philadelphia settling "Family"

disputes in

behalf of BRUNO. However, interest to note that ANTONIO POLLINA,

BRUNO'S

predecessor,

Family "La Causa

"Representando Officiale"

, Philadelphia

Nostra,

has conferred during past week and

did confer 4/15/63 with

MARIO MAGGIO and PETER MAGGIO first

in effort to raise funds to buy out a partner in Medallion

Provisions Company;

failing to do so, obtained their counsel

for POLLINA to sell his interests. POLLINA is the only person

known to sources who seeks assistance outside of BRUNO's or

TESTA's sphere of influence.

AMED AND DARENEUS. REC-2197 22 -JV1

11 APR I'7 1963

cx.102

3 - Bureau (92-2717)

1 - Philadelphia (92-444)

MIN

(4)

Wooved:

8.17

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32303403 Page 2

---

