# docid-32287808

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10198-10084

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-533

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/14/1962

3

CIP, ADVICE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287808

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act or

NoteJP-36 TPArTE?-11(011-2017

-2107

FBI

Date:

May 14, 1962

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Thet

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

EROM: SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

MIAMI DIVISION

Re Miami teletype to Director and Las Vegas

dated 3/9/62; Butel 5/10/62; Miami radiogràm 5/11/62:

Philadelphia teletype 5/11/62; New York teletype 5/11/62.

PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN advised today the following:

HEGEMAN met CARLOS MARCELLO Friday, 5/4/62, at

Town and Country Motel, New Orleans, for about 30 minutes.

This motel owned by MARCELLO.

HEGEMAN and CARLOS MARCELLO

only ones present when MARCELLO advised top attorneys of.

racket people would meet in Reno, Nevada, 5/12/62, to map

out future plans to combat ROBERT KENNEDY, Attorney General.

MARCELLO mentioned attorneys listed in Miami

teletype 5/9/62. On 5/14/62, HEGEMAN said he believed

MARCELLO also mentioned Attorney BENNETT WILLIAMS of

Bureau (AM)

- Las Vegas (info)

1 - Los Angeles (info)

1 - New York (92-632 Sub E-27) (info)

1

1

- Philadelphia (92-453) (info)

- New Orleans (info)

- Miami

(1 = 92-605) (CARLOS MARCELLO;

AR)

(1 - 137-2164) (PCI JOSEPH HEGEMAN).

VKA/ neb

62-9-29-533

(11)

REC

Non de

is dr half

8 MAY 16 1962

ApprOv

Sent

- M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

"DocId: 32287808 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act oI 1992 711 USC 2107-

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

Today HEGEMAN

previous a torney ended be to hone to) accinta,

Ad BENE

3. years ago in an income tax case. BINYOU reportedly had

owned the Horseshoe in Las Vegas.

HEGEMAN today said only

racket people mentioned. by MARCELLO 5/4/62 were MOE DALITZ

and MORRIS KLEINMAN of Las Vegas, and that he, HEGEMAN,

was not certain if MARCELLO said

they would or would not

be at meeting.

HEGEMAN today said he generally is with MARCELLO

for only short periods. and that he cannot always remember

all the names,

backgrounds, and places mentioned but that

he does his best to remember the most pertinent information

in an effort to be of help.

to see JERRY

WALD of 20th Century Fox Studios about a movie.

on Thursday,

worth

some money to him as he might get the public relations

program in connection with the efforts of the attorneys.

In this regard, HEGEMAN said today he has excellent contacts

through GEORGE

HEALY

"Times-Picayune," New Orleans, and

the "New York Times."

HEGEMAN. agreed

to stop in Reno on his

return from California.

On night of Friday, 5/4/62, and Saturday, 5/5/62,

HEGEMAN said he stayed at Holiday rmed Ne Miami Sunday,

which

is owned 50% by MARCELLO.

5/6/62, via National Airlines Flight 206.

On Tuesday night, 5/8/62, HEGEMAN departed Miami

for New Orleans via National Airlines Flight 31 and went to

Holiday Inn upon arrival New Orleans.

Remained overnight.

at Town and

HEGEMAN said LYNCH is a multi-

millionaire, reputable, no hoodlum connections, with offices

on Spring Street; Los Angeles, California, and

to learn what property latter owned and would sell in downtown

New Orleans.

HEGÊMAN said MARCELLO states he is worth 50

million dollars, but he needs to sell real estate to secure

needed cash. HEGEMAN said MARCELLO contacts him because he

2.

DocId: 32287808 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992.744 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

knows HEGEMAN can contact people with money who might be

prospective purchasers. HEGEMAN is presently employed by

MACDONALD LYNCH and he said LYNCH is not to be associated

with MARCELLO or the racket people. On 5/9/62, MARCELLO

LoLa HEGEMAN, NORMAN BILTZ would contact him on his arrival

in Reno at the Holiday Hotel.

MARCELLO gave HEGEMAN

$6,700.00 in cash to deliver

ment for attorney fees.

to BILiZ as part of his pay-

m Wednesday:

5/9/62, LYNCH and HEGEMAN departed

New Orleans on National Airlines Flight 31 for Los Angeles,

arriving there at 11:30 p.m. on the same date.

went to Beverly Hills Hotel, Beverly Hills, California,

remained there until Thursday,

5/10/62, when he left for

Reno at 4:30 p.m. via TWA Airlines Flight 69. PIlOr to

leaving Los Angeles, HEGEMAN called and spoke with JERRY WALD

at 20th Century Fox

Studios regarding his business mission

and had lunch with WALD's assistant, CURTIS HARRINGTON, at

the Beverly Hills Hotel.

On 5/10/62, HEGEMAN arrived in Reno about 9:00 p.m.

went to the holiday Hotel. On elevator, third floor,

he

was contacted by a-NORMAN BILTZ representative,, name unknown

and was told the attorneys meeting was off because of a

leak in the plans and that HEGEMAN should give him the

package. HEGENAN gave him the $6, 700.00 and then went to

his room.

NEYADA

Pily, 11/62,

at 11:00 a.m., HEGEMAN phoned

NORMAN BILTZ, since

he has office in Holiday Hotel, Keno,

told him the meeting was called off

also told HEGEMAN that the District Attorney in Reno,

had called it off.

* he rooting,

linking National Airlines Flight 266 for Miami.

HEGEMAN plans to be in New Orleans at Holiday

on wednesday, 5/16/62. He expects that plans will be made

again in the

future for meeting of attorneys.

Miami will

maintain contact with HEGEMAN and advise results.

Under no

circumstances is identity of PCI or information he has supplied

De disclosed outside the Bureau by any field division.

3.

i-100851

'DocId: 32287808 Page 4

---

