# docid-32282012

## Page 1

Date: 10/05/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER: 157-10002-10172

RECORDS SERIES :

TRANSCRIPT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

-ROM :

TITLE :

EXECUTIVE SESSION OF CHURCH COMMITTEE

DATE : 07/25/75

PAGES : 40

SUBJECTS :

CHURCH COMMITTEE

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

CUBA

CASTRO

AMLASH

MAHEU, ROBERT

RUBY, JACK

LANSDALE, EDWARD

OPERATION MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 321

Folder 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 53244 DocId:32282012 Page 1

---

## Page 2

3

Phone (Area 202) 544-6000

1

2

4

5

6

was put in charge of the task force on Track II.

Senator Schweiker. Has he really resigned?

Mr. Schwarz.

He is doing that. I don't know.

A man called Wimpert who was in the Army and became in

effect one of the AGency's principal agents in Chile -- they

referred to him as Co-op 2.

Karamessines, who was either the head of the Deputy

Director for Plans or very high up in the operation section,

and who really was the principal Washington action officer on

it.

410 First Street, S.E., Washington, D.C. 20003

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

And then Mr. Kissinger, running in a schedule that would

get that whole group done by the fifth, and we can have Mr.

Kissinger in on the fifth.

Haig, a possibility, not as clear. And Haig and

General Bennett from DIA, and the head of the Joint Chiefs

of

Staff, people who may be involved, and in the case of

General Bennett and the case of the head of the Joint Chiefs

of Staff, they think we ought to depose them, and we may

get a small piece of information.

In the case of Cuba there is one Agency person that I

think we need for short testimony on the Cubella or AMLASH pe

period. He is a man named Nesto Anchest a Spanish-speaking

agent, a mani who met with AMLASH in Paris at the end of

October and on November 22, 1963.

We have Mr. Maheu down for Tuesday morning.

NH 53244 DocId:32282012 Page 2

---

