# docid-32331270

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10216

HQ

92-2989-86

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/29/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32331270

29

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nobe)

DATE: • 11-14-2017

NY 92-851

ARMAN$ CERAMI,

a close associate of subject

and owner of Tony Sweet's Restaurant in Miami, supposealy

opened another restaurant in Miami recently.

The name

of this restaurant is not yet known. (

On 3/12/62, NY 99-C advised SA ARTHUR P.

DUFFY that ANTHONY"PUSSY" RUSSO and CHARLES TOURINE have

had the gambling concessiondring the current winter

season at the Harbor Spa, 79th St. Causeway, Miami Beach,

Fla., and at the Harbor Spa or Mayflower Hotel, Palm

Beach, Fla.

In this last connection, the informant was

unable to advise whether the Mayflower Hotel is now known

as the Harbor Spa

or the Harbor Spa referred to the health

facilities within the Mayflower Hotel in Palm Beach, Fla.

The gambling concession is operated out of the cigar stands

in each of the above named places.

Within the three week

period prior to 3/12/62; JIMMY (LNU), operating the cigar

stand at

the Harbor Spa, Miami Beach, Fla, had roped in

a "sucker"

who was an out of town businessman.

The "sucker"

had been

staying at the Harbor Spa and

was roped into a

"tip game" and lost somewhere between thirty and thirty

five thousand dollars.

After being clipped for this

amount,

the victim had to go out of town, allegedly to his

home to pick up sufficient cash to cover

the loss.

The informant was not aware of the identities

of the individuals who actually clipped the victim, but

expressed the opinion that it could have been RUSSO and

TOURINE or others working for them.

LARRY PASKOW is the apparent owner of the Harbor

Spa, Miami Beach, Fla., Harbor Spa, Palm Beach, Fla.,

and

the Harbor Spa in West End, NJ.

It has been rumored

that RUSSO and TOURINE purchased the Harbor Spa in West

End, NJ, frOM PASKOW and then leased it back to him.

This

would have been done by TOURINE and RUSSO using someone

or some corporation as a front and their names would not

The basis for the operation

of the gambling concession in the Harbor Spa, Miami Beach,

and Harbor Spa,

Palm Beach, by RUSSO and TOURINE is

unknown, but the possibility exists that they operate

in return for financial consideration extended to PASKOW.

-2.

DocId: 32331270 Page 2

---

