# docid-32292675

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10209-10451

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-443

Released under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45855 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/04/1967

PAGES:

53

SUBJECTS:

CM, IDENT RECORD, BKG, REL, RES, TRA, B/F INT, ASSOC,

LST, JM, NP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45855

DocId: 32292675

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

ADMINISTRATIVE

On January 17,

1967, NO 1457-C-TE advised that for

the past six days CARLOS

MARCELLO has been sick at home.

Informant pointed out that MARCELLO's wife came out of the

hospital on January 12, 1967,

and is not yet ambulatory.

NO 145T-C-TE has spent the past six days at the MARCELLO hone

caring for CARLOS and JACKIE MARCELLO.

Informant stated that

MARCELLO has advised his family that he is ill with a bad back

and that an arthritic condition is also bothering bim..

Infor

mant stated that MARCELLO is taking various medicines

and

1s

very morose. Informant pointed out that MARCELLO is always

an early riser and always clothed in a suit, white shirt, and

tie. During the past six days,

he has stayed in pajamas and

robe and has looked

very unkept.

NO 1457_C-TE pointed out that JOSEPH MARCELLO has

spent a lot of time at the MARCELLO home in the last six days,

and

numerous other well-known New Orleans hoodlums have paid

calls on MARCELLO.

Informant pointed out that on January 13 and 14,

1967, there

was a lot of telephone activity between SANTO

TRAFFICANTE,

unknown individuals in New York City, and

JOSEPH MARCELLO, aCting for CARLOS MARCELLO. Informant stated

that informant managed

to listen to several

incoming calls over

a telephone extension.

This, coupled with an argument between,

the informant and JOSEPI and CARLOS MARCELLO relative to one

of these calls,

has lead the informant to believe that the

following method is the system of telephonic contact used for

ICN business:

An incoming call comes to the MARCELLO. home

from a prominent hoodlum and he conducts a

brief innocuous conversation.

This individual

will then indicate that he is busy and will call

beckin 15 minutes, one-hall hour, or an hour.

At time this individual indicates that be will

call MARCELLO at "Girl

friend #1; girl friend

#2, or girl friend #3."

In the past, CARLOS

MARCELLO would then proceed to a group of pay

B

ce:

(COVER PAGE)

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36

telephones

somewhere in the shopping center

near the MARCELLO residence. However, in

the

past six days, JOE MARCELLO would proceed to

this group ot

telephones.

JOSEPH MARCELIN

will occupy a public telephone booth and at

the appropriate time will receive the business

call from out of state.

Informant stated

that

CARLOS and JOSEPH MARCELLO have stated to the

informant that this is the method of communication

and the use of the term "girl friend" will throw

off anyone

listering on the telephones.

Infor

mant stated that this process is inverted when

MARCELLO initiates a contact with any ICN figure

out of state.

Informant stated that JOSEPH

and CARLOS MARCELLO have in their possession

a list of "girl friends" out of state; however,

they change the

nunbers around in a manner only

they know.

NO 1457-C-TE

advised that SANTO TRAFFICANTE arrived

in New Orleans sometime during morning of February 12,

1967.

на асвіо 2 л

and flew on to New York.

TRAFFICANTE ANd JOSEPH MARCELL

departed New Orleans sonetime after 11:30 AM, February 13,

1967, for New York. NO 1457-C-TE not aware of where these

individuals will be staying in New York.

On February

22, 1967, at 3:00 PM, NO 1457-C-T

advised telephonically

that SANTO was in New Orleans.

could not advise his tine of arrival or where SANTO waS

staying.

He stated

that SANTO bad at times on trips before

been known to stay at the Fontainebleau Hotel.

On February 15, 1967, NO 1457-C-TE advised that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE had recently been back in New Orleans

to

see CARLOS MARCELLO.

Informant not aware of where TRAFFICANTE

stayed; however, informant knows TRAFFICANTE was here for

three days and spent considerable time with CARLOS MARCELLO.

(COVER

PA GE

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 3

---

## Page 4

C

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGION

Date

2/16/67

1

MrS. MURDOCH MAVO,

accompanied by her husband,

Mr • RUFUS NAVO, was interviewed at the Office of Reverend

HUGH MC KEE, St. Martins Episcopal Church, Jefferson

Parish, Loudsiana.

Mrs. NAVO furnished the following data relative

to the murder of THOMAS SIRACUSA in 1943:

The evening prior to the disappearance of SIRACUSA,

Mrs. NAVO, FRANK SPANO, and WHIT BLACKHELL arrived at the

Willswood Tavern, Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, at about

7:00 P.M.

When

they entered the tavern the only other

party in

there consisted of one table which was obviously

having a large dinner.. This table consisted of the

The a to

foltowing individuals:

VITO LONGO

LEAH LONGO (VITO's wife)

JEANNE (LEAH's sister)

JOSEPH CHIMENTI

CARLOS MARCELLO

NICK CHRISTINA

- Unknown Individual (This person was

a white male,

about forty, very dark skin, heavy set, black

hair.)

Mrs. NAVO and

party sat at the bar and drank

coca-colas.

VITO LONGO'S mother

was

in the kitchen cooking

and was waiting on all present.

About fifteen minutes after Mrs. NAVO's arrival,

(COVER PAGE)

• On _

2/9/67

_at New Orleans, Louisiana

_ File #-

NO 92-36

by SA PATRICK J. COLLINS: kbg

_ Date dictated

2/10/68

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

HIH

45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO

2

92-36/kbg/med

THOMAS SIRACUSA arrived. SIRACUSA appeared surprised and then

afraid

at finding the dinner party going on.

SIRACUSA walked

around

the bar

and back into the kitchen.

Immediately after

LONGO, CHRISTINA, MARCELLO, and CHIMENTI walked into the

kitchen.

Mrs. NAVO and party heard loud shouting in Italian,

pots and pans falling in

the kitchen, and bodies

bouncing around.

орелей ва

was silence for a brief period.

VITO. LONGO'S

mother

opened the kitchen door and Mrs. NAVO observed SIRACUSA sitting

in a metal chair. CHIMENTI was holding a

snub-nose revolver

which was pressed against SIRACUSA's temple.

CARLOS MARCELLO

was slapping SIRACUSA.

SIRACUSA appeared afraid for his life

and

was shouting in

Italian.

Mr's. /NAVO asked FRANK SPANO what they were saying

and SPANO appeared terrified.

SPANO suggested immediate

departure and they did.

MrS. NAVO observed that the only ca

parked in the lot was an old

black touring car which belonged

to SIRACUSA.

She believed the other cars were parked behind

the restaurant.

One or two days later, Mrs. NAVO observed that

a11

the

newspapers were carrying front page stories about the

disappearance of SIRACUSA. :

She believes it was the morning

after she witnessed this incident that the police discovered

SIRACUSA's abandoned. car.

NAVO notified the New Orleans Police Department

of what she had

witnessed.

Captain HARRY GREGSON and WILLIAM

GROSCH, Chief of Detectives, came to her then residence at 101

Central Avenue, and brought

photographs.

She identified the

photograph of SIRACUSA. FRANK SPANO separately identified the

photograph oi SIRAcuSA.

Both identified the photographs of

CARLOS MARCELLO. The police officers told her nothing..

(COVER PAGE)

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 5

---

## Page 6

C

C

NO 92-36

3

She then went to see Sheriff CLANCY, Jefferson

Parish Sheriff's Office, and told him what she

had seen and

that she was scared. Sheriff CLANCY told her that if she

kept her mouth shut she would not get hurt.

She later went

to see Captain GREGSON at his home per his request and he

told her to keep her mouth shut about what she had told him

as they would kill her.

Several weeks later Deputy CY DI LIBERTO of the

Jefferson

Parish Sheriff's Office,

talked to Mrs. NAVO and

also told her to keep her mouth shut. He told her that he

knew that CHIMENTI held the gun on SIRACUSA while CARLOS.

MARCELLO worked him over.

DI LIBERTO stated that it was

over a $10, 000 fraud that SIRACUSA was killed.

Mrs. NAVO stated that she once asked District

Attorney LANDRIDGE why

he had CHIMENTI as his Chief Investigator,

and he replied to her "When someone begs you for a job, what

do you do?"

Among People Mrs. NAVO knew during the early forties

as hoodlums in the New Orleans area was Mr. TROMBATORE, who

was in bootlegging; Mr. CENTANNI, who owns

and operates the

Gold Seal Creamery; SALVATORE VALENTI, bootlegging; FRANK

PALMISANO and his son "BIB JOE" PALMISANO; and MI. PATERNOSTRO.

She stated that PATERNOSTRO disappeared years ago and his son

used to come to park at the dead end of the street where he

disappeared. PATERNOSTRO's car was burned at this street,

but

the body was never found.

She stated that one VIOLET GUILLARD, Negress, who

lives on Welston Street,

bas: a long-time boyfriend

bas

worked for many years for CARLOS MARCELLO, aS MARCELLO'S

cook.

This cook killed a woman in New Orleans about ten

years ago and CARLOS fixed the case.

G

(COVER PAGE)

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 6

---

## Page 7

C

C

4

NO 92-36

Mrs. NAVO stated

that under no circumstances

would she

testify relative

to her knowledge of the

SIRACUSA murder.

lists

(COVER

PAGE)

74 45855

DooId: 32292675

Page 7

---

## Page 8

C

TEK Act 6 (4)

NO 92-36

Several T symbols utilized in this report are

NO 1457-C-TE to protect this informant's identity.

gon

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1 is

PCI

NO. T-2 is NO 1457-C-TE

NO T-3 is NO 1433-C

NO T-4 is

FORMER PCI

NO T-5 is NO 1457-C-TE

NO T-6 is

PCI

NO T-T is

PCI

NO T-8 iS NO 1435C TE

NO T-9 is NO 1252C

NO T-10 is NO 1291 = C

CONTACTING AGENT

SA MAURICE A. KELLIHER

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS,

JR.

and SA REED

W. JENSEN

SA ROGER E. MAXWELL

SA REED W. JENSEN.

SA REED W. JENSEN and

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS,

JR.

SA DELBERT W. - HAHN

SA LARRY L. GUGGISBERG

SA JACK EVANS MEHL

SA REED W. JENSEN

SA JOSEPH G. PEGGS

NO T-11 is JOSEPH LABAT, IRS

SA ROGER E. MAXWELI

REVIEWED BY PEWSK TA

ON

1120198

MULATE IN PANT

107R1

(COVER

PAGE)

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 8

---

## Page 9

, NO

92-36

JEK Act 6 (4)

NO T-12 is

• NO 1456 - PC

NO T-13 is

PCI

NO T-14 is JN 180-C

NO T-15 is TP 120-C

NO T,-16 is BOBBY G. GWINN

NO T-17 is MO 182-C

SA ROGER E. MAXWELL

SA WILLIAM F. DUKES

SA WILLIAM F. DUKES

SA JOHN AMBLER

SA L. M. SHEARER, JR.

SA MYRON G. TURNER

• LEADS

HOUSTON DIVISION

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS

Interview oilman FRANK WATERS re any

association

with CARLOS MARCELLO.

EL PASO DIVISION

AT EL PASO, TEXAS

Conduct credit, criminal,

and indices check re

MAURICE

BELL.

Determine how he financed his motel and

then consider interviewing him regarding the MARCELLOS.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Conduct credit, criminal, and indices check re

CHARLES SALADINO and Son, Inc.

(COVER PAGE)

45855

DocId: 32292675 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NO 92-36

NEW ORLEANS. DIVISION

AT COVINGTON, LA.

Interview CLARA RISPONE re her association with

CARLOS. MARCELLO and any knowledge of ICN.

AT NEW ORLEANS, LA.

Identify registrants of vehicles parked at MARCELLO'S

residence and business office.

Spot

check activities of subject.

Will report results of numerous checks of out-of-state

license plates parked at MARCELLO's business office.

Maintain close contact with NO 1457-C-TE 're MARCELLO'S

travel and activities.

K'*

(COVER PAGE)

774 45855

DocId: 32292675 Page 10

---

## Page 11

20-201 (Rov. 8-8-88)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, New Orleans

Report of: SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

APRIL 4, 1967

Field Office File No.:

NO 92-36

Titl

CARLOS MARCELLO

Office: NEW ORLEANS

Bureau File No.:

92-2713

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

NO T-I believes MARCELLO is in the punchboard business

in Columbia and Venezuela.

NO T-2 believes MARCELLO will

give fifty acres of Churchill Farms, Inc. for the erection

of the new dome stadium in New Orleans.

NO T-3 belleves

MARCELLO "owns" District Attorney FRANK LANDRIDGE, Jefferson

Parish, La.

NO To4 believes MARCELLO has a twenty per cent

Interest in the dome stadium. NO I-5. advised that MARCELLO'S

wire was patient in Baptist Hospital, New Orleansy week

of. January 9, 1967, for surgery.

NO T-5 advised MARCELLO

moved to residence

NO T-5 advised that he believes SANTO TRAFFICANTE has

at 3908 Clifford Drye, Metairies LA

visited CARLOS MARCELLO In La. several times in the

recent past. NO T-2 advised that MARCELLO has one JOHN

LA BRUZZO acting as his chauffeur. 'NO T-5 believes

MARCELLO Sold land next to Holiday Motel, Jefferson

Parish, La. NO I-2 believes SAM RECILE is a friend of

CARLOS MARCELLO.

NO T-16 believes

that

several years

ago

, MARCELLO

had NEMO NOLTI kill

DONALD MELANCON OVEr a

$200,000 debt.

Ident record set

forth.

JFK Law 11(a)

DETAILS:

93-1713-443

This document contains

neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

NW 45855 DooId: 32292675

Page 11

---

## Page 12

C

C

NO 92-36

ACTIVITIES

NO T-2 advised on January 5, 1967, that he had

heard that CARLOS MARCELLO intended

in the immediate future

to offer fifty acres of land of his Churchill Farms Estate

free to the City of New Orleans as the site of the new dome

stadium. NO T-2 stated that MARCELLO was willing to give the

choicest section of this estate free and clear to the city.

NO T-4 advised on January 5, 1967, that MARCELLO

stated recently that he has a twenty per cent

interest in the

new dome stadium deal. NO I-4 stated that recently MARCELLO

had been in contact with FRANK WATERS, Houston, Texas, oil

man, who reputedly has some interest in the dome stadium deal.

On January 20,

1967, NO T-5 advised that he believed

that about one year ago CARLOS, JOSEPH, aNd SAMMY MARCELLO

made numerous trips to the Mississippi Gulf Coast:

The reason

for these trips was that a

small group of businessmen desired

to have the MARCELLO brothers control gambling on a small

island off the coast as they were in the process of developing

the island.

CARLOS MARCELLO did not enter this deal as this

business group did not sell him somereal estate on the island.

Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol (MHSP) investi-

gator JOE PRICE (NA), Gullport, Mississippi, advised

January 9, 1967,

that he has received no information to the

effect that the MARCELIOS have any business interest in the

Mississippi Gulf Coast area

or that they have been frequenting

the ared in recent months.

on January 20, 1967,

was in contact with

SAM DI PIAZZA, who owns and operates pizza

houses in New Orleans and who is a close associate of CARLOS

MARCELLO. Informant advised that in a conversation with 'SAM

DI PIAZZA, DI PIAZZA said he had been on the Mississippi Gulf

Coast several times recently attempting to locate some property

around "the strip" near Biloxi, Mississippi, to purchase and

put up some pizza

houses.

DI PIAZZA did not tell informant

that he was doing this at the specific request of CARLOS

MARCELLO, but informant assumed that in view of the known

association between DI PIAZZA and MARCELLO, some of the racket

money in New Orleans would probably be used to help finance

this business

venture in Biloxi, Mississippi, if it takes

place.

15

HItT

45855 DooId: 32292675 Page 12

---

## Page 13

C

NO 92-36

NO T-13 advised she would again be traveling to

New Orleans in the near future and while there would

attempt

to contact DI PIAZZA in an effrt to obtain further details

about these pizza houses and any other information as to^

possible financial interest in which CARLOS MARCELLO may be

involvéd in the Mississippi Gulf Coast area.

No I-14 advised on rebruary 8, 196%, that CAROLYN

SIMMONS continues to reside at New Orleans, Louisiana, Where

she is employed by Delta Airlines. Informant advised that on

two occasions on recent weekends,

CAROLYN SIMMONS has returned

to the Mississippi Gulf Coast accompanied by JOE MARCELLO,

son of CARLOS MARCELLO. Informant was unable to advise the

nature and identity of

contacts made by CAROLYN and JOE-

MARCELLO but stated that she would attempt to do so on the

next occasion of their coming to the coast.

NO T-5 advised on January 20, 1967, that CARLOS

MARCELLO and his brothers recently sold a large amount of

land next to the Holiday Motel, Jefferson Parish, Louisiana.

NO T-8 advised on January 26, 1967, that he

heard that CARLOS MARCELLO and NOFIO PECORA have recently been

meeting in Covington,

Louisiana, at the residence of CLARA

RISPONE. On January

19, 1967, NO T-10 advised that CARLOS

MARCELLO was recently in Shreveport, Louisiana, and held a

meeting at the Town and Country Motel, Bossier

This meeting was attended by the majority stockholders in the

Sawyer Downs Race Track which is presently being constructed

at Sbreveport, Louisiana, MARCELLO advised that he had no

financial interest in the race track but was merely attempting

to help the stockkolders out of a difficult

situation,

NO T-10 stated there had recently been some

mismanagement on the part of the present manager of Sawyertto

Downs Race Track at Shreveport, Louisiana.

MARCELLO waS

attempting to resolve this difficulty.

NW 45855 DocId: 32292675 Page 13

---

## Page 14

NO 92-36

PJC: jas

Characterization:

Sources who have identified

MARCELLO as a member of

LCN are PH 591-C*

and Bs 837-C*. The latter**

source in March, 1963,

reported MARCELLO to be the

"representando" in New Orleans.

NO 1457-C-TE identified MARCELLO

as the "boss" in Louisiana.

On 9/23/66, MARCELLO stated to

two Agents in New Orleans, "I'm

the boss here."

4*

HH 45855

DocId: 32292675

Page 14

---

