# docid-32290721

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10497

HQ

105-106995-26

Released under the John

48sass1nation Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 07/22/1963

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, ACA, RCK, LICENSE,

INVASION, RAIDS, CUBA, INTV, NOBREGAS, GEORGE,

SABOTAGE ACT, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32290721

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Roy. 12-13-56).

CONTR

THATIAI

Date:

7/22/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

(105-106995)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIHICATION AND/OR,

PELCASE DA CIA INFORMATION

IN INS DECUMENT JM 915-97

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

SAC, NEW YORK

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-4719) (P)

SUBJECT:

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, aka.

nontecristi GrOup,

10N9/28/63

jupites

Montecristi Movement

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA; NM

00: Miami

Classited

Declassify on:

OA

Re Miami letter to Bureau, 4/5/63, with enclosed

letterhead memorandum.

(OFK)

ALL INCURBANION CONTAINLI

ONCIASSIFIED

SHOWN

HEREIN

ISR

WIS.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as abové.

Iwo copies of this

letterhead memorandum are enclosed for New York and one each

for San Juan, Savannah and Tampa and WrO.

Information copies of this letterhead memorandum

are being furnished to Tampa and San Juan for background

information concerning this organization.

Information copy

of this Lim being furnished to Savannah in view of pending

investigation in that division. Information copy of this LHM

being furnished to WFO inasmuch as they may be called on to

conduct investigation 'in this matter at a subsequent date.

.. (FF-K)

10-9-97

ON

6647946)

KriN: 10L0

STAFFORD On 1/18/633 04(43-5 ao as costate

ONI/OSI/ACSI

- Bureau (Enc. 12) (RM) (AM)

by routing slip for info.

New York (Enc.

2) (RM) (AM)

San Juan (Enc..

1) (Info) (RM)

Coast Burn

6

Tampa (Enc.

1) (Info) (RM)

WFO (Enc. 1) (Info) (RM)

Miami

(1 - 105-1742) (Anti Castro Activities) (1-97-437) (FORDC)

(1 - 97-405) (UR)

(1 - 105-1360) (DRE)

(15)

"Approved.

40 Sent De

Per

20

1L 203

WeRfecial Agent. in Charge

NH 53025

DocId: 32290721

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MM 105-4719

Copies of this letterhead memorandum are being

furnished to Office of the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs,

ONI, Border Patrol, U. S. Customs, U. S. Coast Guard, CIA,

OSI, G-2 and OSI.

New York is requested to make a copy of this

letterhead memorandum available to U. S. Customs, New

York City.

This letterhead memorandum is being classified

Confidential inasmuch as it contains information extracted

from a CIA communication which was so classified.

For the information of Savannah, relet reflects

that a check was to be made concerning identity of registrant

for 1963 Fla. License 1D-49526. A check of the Dade Co. Auto

Tag Agency reflects that license was issued for a 1961 Falcon

to KERIBERTO M. SANCHEZ, 225 S. W. 15th Road, Miami, Florida.

No identifiable information in Miami indices

concerning this

individual and only possibility reflects no derogatory infor-

It does not appear that the identity of this person

is of any significance at this time in view of the fact that

invasion of Cuba, as alleged and reported by the Savannah

Office, involving members of the AM has not taken place.

is believed that no further investigation should be conducted

concerning this particular activity.

Miami will continue to follow the activities of

the Al through its sources, particularly through lin 873-5. 755(4)

Miami will contact CIA for

any intornation, reflecting

operational interest in this organization in view of infor-

mation furnished by MM 873-S that the anti-CASTRO organization,

UR, has approached the AM and offered them aid in an infiltra-

tion program in Cuba, Jes

The identities of the Tampa sources who had no

information to indicate activity on the part of this

organization in that area have been set forth in Tampa

letter to Miami dated 5/29/63.

Investigation concerning the arms transaction

involving the FORDC as set forth on page 1 of letterhead

memorandum is being reported under caption of the FORDC. (K)(a) (U)

CIA INFO (RIS INCLASSIFIED)

-2-

(R 5LINES34

CLASSIFIED PER

THEIR 1231/96 CTR,

9803rddlgel + 23192-11,326

NW 53025 DooId:32290721

Page 3

---

