# docid-32332603

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

$/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90103-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-385

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/26/1962

' PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

V9.1

DocId: 32332603

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

' Released under dherJodh-F Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI

Date:

11/26/62.

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940)

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226) (P)

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

(00: PITTSBURGH)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

LA ROCCA remains in the Pittsburgh, Pa., Vicinity according

to neighbors at Ingomar, Pa., and informants who advise that

his adopted son is now attending Point Park Junior College

in Pittsburgh and has moved into a new residence at 511'

Guenevere Drive, North Hills section of Pittsburgh.

Educational-

and living expenses are ostensibly being handled by LA ROCCA.

A Pittsburgh informant has observed LA ROCCA driving a 1961

Oldsmobile bearing Pennsylvania license Y59317 in the vicinity

of the residence of JOSEPH SICA, known Pittsburgh racketeer

who resides at 1003 Lincoln Highway, East McKeesport, Pa.

This automobile was also observed parked at that residence

by the aforementioned informant.

The vehicle is registered

to MARY S. LA ROCCA, 900 West Ingomar Street, Pittsburgh 37,

Another informant has advised that during August, 1962, JOHN

FONTANA, lieutenant, MANNARINO organization, New Kensington,

Pa., opened a jewelry store and discount house on Frankstown

Avenue in the

East Liberty

section of Pittsburgh.

This informant

Bureau

Pittsburgh

RAV/ pjw

(4)

B5: 2-2940-385

125

NOV 217 1962

59

6 NOV 29 108- Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32332603 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-226

was approached by MIKE GENOVESE, protege of LA ROCCA, to

extend credit to FONTANA and assist him in getting started.

The informant knows that about $7,000 worth of merchandise

has been sold to FONTANA already but does not know whether

the LA ROCCA-GENOVESE organization is financially interested

in this legitimate business enterprise or not.

CTE of the Pittsburgh Division has advised that the MANNARINO

organization is in serious financial trouble and is trying

to raise money to hire a top attorney to represent the

organization in the trial involving the Internal Revenue

Service

,at Pittsburgh.

Attempts to hire BENNETT WILLIAMS

have been unsuccessful because of lack of ready money and

this informant has advised that MANNARINO requested the

assistance of LA ROCCA in this matter.

LA ROCCA allegedly

told MANNARINO that he should take care of his own house.

SUBJECT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

2

No 103-100014

DocId: 32332603

Page 3

---

