# docid-32305279

## Page 1

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 744 Ust 2107 nurey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10287-10409

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-297, 298

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/22/1966

' PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, A/T, ADMIN PAGE, LHM

DoCId: 32305279

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released undet the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DA456T76V 3222977

CON DENTAL

RE

Date:

4-22-66

(Type in plaintext or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIRTEL

RMATION CONTAINED

ENCLASSIFIED

SHOWN

TO:

ARWISE

FROM:

SUBJECT:

n.

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SAC, MIAMI

(105-2855) (P)

MOVIMIENIO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA. (MIRR)

IS - CUBA

Classified / SP66TH/Gar

(00: Miami)

Declassify/og: OADR?/30/85

Re Miami teletypes to Bureau, 4/21 and 22/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are ll copies of a

IHM dated and. captioned as above.

The LHM Is classified Confidential to protect

MM T-1, an informant of continuing value.

cops zervice/Storerusin-Coondivator

are being furnished locally to

760 /DIA FRAI =

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami

Dopt.

Copy to: CLA/State/R2x)

ON/OSt/acs/customs

1

U.

S. Customs; Miami

U. S. Customs, Region II, Miami

by routing slip for info.

U. S. Customs, Key West

Date 71/6br

INS, Miami

NISO, 6th ND, Charleston, s.c.

a at wick

G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

ENCLOSURE

OSI,

Robins AFB, Ga.

CIA,

Miami

Coast Guard, Miami

1

- Office of Coordinator of Cuban Affairs,

DEGLASS!

0M 3/0

Dept. of State, Miami

JEK

1 - USA FAD,

Ojus

(3-Bureau (Enc.11) (RM)

2-Miam1

52: 97-4474-

(1-105-2855)

2134-238-Sub-AY841(u)

•APR 2:7 1966

(5)

216

Saggin in charge COANDENTIAL M SAT M

DocId: 32305279

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note) .

DATE: I1-11-2017

CONARDENTIAL

MM 105-2855

1 - FAA, Miami

• - Secret Service, Miami

titi

the following is furnished:

Eng the contaned 1al formation of the Bureau,

On 4-17-66,

M wised that on 4-16-66,

he aggompanied ORLANDO

BOSCH/and GUAJIRO (JOSE ANTONIO

MULETAGONZALEZ_ to Naples

¿ to survey the area of the

B: 12-3/20

airport? BOSCH decided to use Naples as the departure

point for his planned air raid, and a specific plan was

laid out as to where the plane

should be parked for loading

with bombs by BOSCH and his confederates after MM'639-S,

the pilot, parked the plane and went into ta yes: 201 Mw.

On April 21, 1966, MM 639-S advised that at

35V DUE, NiARi!

9:30 A.M., that date, he met with BOSCH who decided that

71H. 1

the raid against Nuevitas, Cuba, should be made on the

night of April 21. BOSCH then drove MM 639-s to the

Bacardi Building,

Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, where

BOSCH picked up GUAJIRO.

National Bank where GUAJIRO wrote out a check.for BOSCH

in the amount of $500.00.

This check was cashed by BOSCH

and the $500.00 was handed by BOSCH to MM 639-S for the

rental of a plane.

It was decided by BOSCH, after discussion

with MM 639-S, that the plane was to be flown to Miami

International

Airport on the afternoon or early evening of

April 21, 1966; that a co-pilot, to be chosen by BOSCH,

would meet MM 639-S at Miami International Airport and

would fly with him to Naples where they would park the

BOSCH stated that, upon signal from

MM 639-S, the bombs would be transported from Miami to

Naples.

BOSCH said that he and his companions would

be waiting for a telephonic message from MM 639-S at

telephone FRanklin 3-1859.

It was agreed that the plane

would depart some time during the evening of 4-21-66, for

Naples and that the bombing raid would be made shortly

after midnight. (A)(U)

The above information was immedately furnished

tO Mr. WALLACE SHANLEY and Mr. STAN SCHACHES OR U.S. CHEN)

REVIEWED BY FEWUFK TASK FORCE

ON 7-23-97 cal

J. RELEASE IN FULL

CONFIOENTIAL EI TOTA DINGHT

• TOTAL DENIAL

58201049

DocId: 32305279

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John't. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note):

DATE: .11-14-2017

MM 105-2855

CONTENTIAL

Customs who had already been briefed on previous

developments.

Mr. SHANLEY and Mr. SCHACHTER had already

worked out a plan of action in agreement with this office

and the Colller County Sheriff's Office with the thought

At 9:40 P.M., 4-21-66, MM 639-S advised that

was ready to depart Miami International Airport and had

just notified BOSCH, who said he would immediately bring

the co-pilot to the airport.

MM 639-S had rented at Florida

Lauderdale International Alrport,

Airmotive Sales, Inc 310-I, Registration 8137M, with wing tip

a twin-engine Cessna

tanks. (7) (4)

Before his departure, MM 639-S was alerted by this

office of the fact that he would be interrogated by a Collier

County deputy at the airport as a possible suspect. but that

At 1:30 A.M., Mr. SHANLEY telephonically notified

this office that BOSCH and two companions had, just been

arrested by the Collier County Sheriff's Office In possession

of six bombs 15 miles east of Naples.

Subsequently Mr. SHANLEY and Mr. SCHACHTER furnished

the following details which are of interest to the Bureau.

In cooperation with Customs, Sheriff HENDRY set up

a road block 15 miles east of Naples.

This road block was

manned by two deputies and one Customs agent dressed as a

block from a

point 5 miles east.

When the two cars came to

the road block,

the deputies simulated a search for two

escaped convicts from a Collier County prison camp. One

deputy, dressed as a convict and wearing handcuffs, was

brought from the adjoining field to an official car along

with a bloodhound to simulate the capture of one of the

two convicts.

The sheriff, within hearing of BOSCH and his

companions,

made appropriate. radio calls and instructed a

'я(и)

- 3.

CONFIDENTIAL

585-10400

DocId: 32305279

Page 1

---

## Page 5

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21U) Hoter.

DATE • 11-14-2017

CONTDENTIAL

MM 105-2855

deputy to proceed to the Naples airport as a precautiony

the event the other convict had made his way

there. (%)(U)

At the appropriate time, after MM 639-S and

his Cuban co-pilot returned to the airport at Naples,

they were approached by a Collier County deputy who

questioned them concerning an escaped convict.

MM 639-S advised that this was done in a most realistic

fashion.

The Cuban co-pilot, who was not arrested,

has been identified by the Collier County Sheriff's

Office as JUAN FRANCISCO, FANTONY, 320 S. W. 2nd street,

Miami,

born 6-16-43. (

• After waiting impatiently for an appropriate

period of time, MM 639-S and his co-pilot mutually

concluded that something had gone awry since the plane

had not been

I with bombs and BOSCH was not in

MARCELINO CARCIA, Feturned to Miami where they encountered

the number two man in BOSCH's organization.

GARCIA expiained that BOSCH had just been picked up while

enroute to Naples and that he was going to Naples to assist

BOSCH.

LubA

MM 639-S has expressed the opinion that so far

he does not appear to be under any suspicion for his

part in this matter. (n(U)

U. S. Customs has decided not to appear as having

been involved in any way in the apprehension of BOSCH anc

his companions in order to afford further protection to

ми 639-3 . (X0(4)

LEADS

!

MIAMI

Bureau.

BOSCH.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1) Will report any further developments to the

2)

Will follow and report State prosecution of

CONFIDENTIA!

58J-1081

DocId: 32305279

Page 5

---

## Page 6

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colvection Act Of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5-1130(19 29565)

CON DENTIAL

Domestic Intelligence Division

IN FORMATIVE NOTE

Date April 22, 1966

Movimiento Insurreccional De

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) 1s

militant Miami/eaded by

organizatrevious information indicated

MIRR was planning air attack on Cuba in

and Bosch had propositioned

ALL INFORMATE UN CONTAINEI

one of our informants to act as pilot.

ANCLASSIFIED

We have followed this matter closely and

concurrance, whereby bombs would be seized

a protect our intonatel the raid

HEREIN

БКСЕРТ

8.m. Bosch, Mulet (referred to in the

attached) and one other Cuban national

were arrested for being in possession of

explosives and six bombs were confiscated.

We have previously advised White

House and the Attorney General of this

situation and we are furnishing them

current pertinent developments.

WLS : cwb

Classified My 505 PoTA Gee

Declassity on:

an: 90R 9/20/85

DocId: 32305279

Page 6

---

## Page 7

. Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-201-713, 109-29451

.

, CONF

DENTIAL

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Dato April 22, 1966

doviniento Insurreccional De

Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) is

nilitant miami, Florida, anti-Castr

or geniza gion

hoaded by Orlando Bosci

ivila. Previous Information indicate

MIRR was planning air attack on Cuba in

near fusure, and Bosch had propositioned

one of our informants to act as pilot.

We have followed this matter closely and

developed plans, with the Department's

concurrance, whereby bombs would be seized

by Customs.

This would thwart the raid

and protect our informanty*>U

Attached sets forth

I details of

last nignts activity and plans of U.S.

have since been advised that early

Cusioms and Collier County Sheriff his

a.m. Bosch, Mulei (referred to in the

attached) and one other Cuban national

were arrested for being in possession of

explosives and six bombs were confiscated.

We have previously avised White

House and the Attorney Gei.ci

this

situation and we are furiis.:

cc cem

current pertineni

WIS: CWb

0x 3/10/95

Classified

CONFIENTIAT

DocId: 32305279 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (55. 5--1-27-661

• AIRGRAM

CONEIDENTIAL 8

DECODEDICOPY

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XXX TELETYPE

Our bolto

ĐLO

Callahan

Contad

Felt -

Gale —

Rosen -

Sulliva

Tavelt

Trotter.

Tele. Roon

Holmes.

Gandy -

2:43 AM EST URGENT 4-22-66 LVA

JO DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI

220440

Classified

SOSBEANECL

Declassity on: OADRY/20/95

O MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR),

INTERNAL SECURITKI

F3-CUBA," NU. NEUTRALITY MATTERS

TAINED

SSIFIED

OWN

Reference my teletype

BEMY ENCAPRIL 15, 1.966.

Mtamta

MAM/639-53 WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE

PAST, ON APRA 21, 1966 FURAISHED EOLLOWING INFORMATION:

HER

EXCEP

INFORMANT AND ORLANDO BOSCHMET CLANDESTINELY TODAY TO

FINALIZÉ PLANS FOR BOMBING RAID FROM FLORIDA AGAINST SUGAR

REFINERY IN CUBA. BOSCH INSTRUCTED INFORMANT IO GO, TO

FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, AND RENT A PLANE FOR MISSION.

AFTER PLANE IS RENTED INFORMANT WAS TO FLY IT TO MIAMI, LANO

AT MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AND PICK UP A COPILO

THEN

THEY-ARE, TO FLY ON TO NAPLES, FLORIDA,

REC 40

AIRPORT AND LEAVE PLANE UNATTENDED FOR

A COUPLE. HOURS.

but 49424-2917

INFORMANT AND CO-PILOT RETURN PLANE WILL HAVE AERIAL BOMBS

APR

ABOARD AND WILL BE READY FOR RAID AGAINST CUBA.

DECLASSIF:

• Bx 56680ld GAT

• ON

CONFSENTINSS

i reine let are in the do eat a to be diseminated outside the Bureau, i use not is

DocId: 32305279 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11+14-2017

1-3 (Ror.: 1:27÷665

COM

WENTIAL

• AIRGRAM

PAGE TWO

DECODED COPY

I CABLEGRAM

i RADIO XXX TELETYPE

FROM MIAMI 220440

Tolson -

DeLoach.

Mohr.

Wick

Casper.

Callahan

Consad .

Felt -

Gole -

Rosen -

Sullivon,

Tovel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes _

Gandy

(V.

BOSCH INDICATED HE MIGHT ACCOMPANY VEHICLE CARRYING BOMBS

TO NAPLES. THIS TRIP TAKES ABOUT ONE AND A HALF HOURS BY AUTOMOBILE!

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS MIAMI HAS BEEN NOTIFIED AND THAT

AGENCY WITH COOPERATION OF COLLIER COUNTY SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT

AT NAPLES, WILL SET UP ROADBLOCK NEAR NAPLES AIRPORT TO

INTERCEPT VEHICLE CARRYING BOMBS. CUSTOMS WILL FURTHER BACK

UP SHERIFF'S ROADBLOCK WITH OTHER CHECKPOINTS TO MAKE CERTAIN

BOMBS DO NOT REACH AIRPLANE. (RU)

BOSCH GAVE INFORMANT $500 TO BE USED TO RENT AIRPLANE.

INFORMANT RENTED CESSNA 3100 1, REGISTRATION 8137M, TWIN

ENGINE, COLOR WHITE OVER BLUE. (@)U)

CUSTOMS EXPRESSED GREAT INTEREST IN AND APPRECIATION

FOR OPPORTUNITY TO SEIZE BOMBS. BELONGING TO BOSCH WHO

THEY CONSIDER A CONSTANT THREAT IN TRYING TO CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

INCIDENTS BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND CUBA. (X)(M

AT 9:40 PM APRIL 21 INSTANT INFORMANT LANDED CESSNA AIRPLANE

IN MIAMI. BOSCH AT THAT TUME WAS ON HIS WAY TO MIAMI

INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT WITH JOSE ANTONIOLET GONZALEZ ARA a180

(u)

(x)

FLA,

CONFIDENTIA!.

pache intellie of eat prod in the urue me crape i pie steminated outside the Bureau, it is suffested that is. be auitably

DocId: 32305279

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-3017

4-3 (Rov. 1-27-669

COMfIDENTiAL

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

U RADIO XX TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohs -

Wick

Casper

Callchan

Contod

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivon.

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

PAGE THREE

FROM MIAMI 220440

GUAJIRO WHO WHLL FLY AS CO-PILOT. INFORMANT UNDER IMPRESSION

GERVELIO GUTIERREZ CONCEPCION AND BOBBY (LNES, NOTH

пате ипкпогт)

CUBAN NATIONALS, WILL PARTICIPATE IN DELIVERY OF BOMBS TO

NAPLES: FLA. (7XU)

MIAMI IS MAINTAINING TELEPHONE AND RADIO CONTACT WITH

CUSTOMS AND SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

RECEIVED: 2A58 AM RPT

CONFIDENTIN.

he irellie ore cola prose in the dua me ore in to be diseminated outside the Bureau, it is augested that it be suitably

DocId: 32305279

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

, DATE: 11-19-2017

4-3 (Rev. 1-27-66) -

§S CONTDENTIAI

Tolson -

DeLoach

Wick -

Casper .

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt ..

DECODED COPY

Gale —

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

• AIRGRAM

I CABLEGRAM

Trotter

O RADIO

*xTELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

2:43 AM EST URGENT 4-22-66 LVA

DEMoose

ISPORMATZON CONTAINED

TO DIRECTOR

VO

SUNCLASSIFIED

FROM MIAMI

Classified by

220440

TRE SHOWN

Declassify of?

DADR Q/20185

MOVIMIENTO INSURREGIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR),

HEREIN

EXCFPP

OTHERWISE

IS-CUBA, NU.

REMYTEL APRIL 15, 1966.

MM 639-S, WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE

PAST, ON APRIL 21, 1966 FURNISHED FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

INFORMANT AND ORLANDO BOSCH MET CLANDESTINELY TODAY TO

FINALIZE PLANS FOR BOMBING RAID FROM FLORIDA AGAINST SUGAR

REFINERY IN CUBA. BOSCH INSTRUCTED INFORMANT TO GO TO

FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, AND RENT A PLANE FOR MISSION.

AFTER PLANE IS RENTED INFORMANT WAS TO FLY IT TO MIAMI, LAND

AT MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AND PICK UP A CO-PILOT. THEN

THEY ARE TO FLY ON TO NAPLES, FLORIDA, LAND PLANE AT LOCAL

AIRPORT AND LEAVE PLANE UNATTENDED FOR A COUPLE HOURS. WHEN

INFORMANT AND CO-PILOT RETURN PLANE WILL FÁVE AERIAL BOMES

ABOARD AND WILL BE READY FOR RAID

AGAINE IS CUBA. CRYA

030/40-5680467)

24.23

CONFSENTIA

If the intelligence contained ir the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabls

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305279

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Cullection Aet

DATE: 20V-11=2017

(Rev. 1-27-66)

CONDADENTIAL

DECODED COPY

D AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO XXX TELETYPE

PAGE TWO

FROM MIAMI 220440

0E-1992-(11 USC-2107-Notey.

Toison

DeLoach

Mohr -

Wick -

Casper

Collahan

Conrad

Felt _

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

BOSCH INDICATED HE MIGHT ACCOMPANY VEHICLE CARRYING. BOMBS

TO NAPLES. THIS TRIP TAKES ABOUT ONE AND A HALF HOURS BY AUTOMOBILE (%)

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS MIAMI HAS BEEN NOTIFIED AND THAT

AGENCY WITH COOPERATION OF COLLIER COUNTY SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT

AT NAPLES, WILL SET UP ROADBLOCK NEAR NAPLES AIRPORT TO

INTERCEPT VEHICLE CARRYING BOMBS. CUSTOMS WILL FURTHER BACK

UP SHERIFF'S ROADBLOCK WITH OTHER CHECKPOINTS TO MAKE CERTAIN

BOMBS DO NOT REACH AIRPLANE. (RU)

BOSCH GAVE INFORMANT $500 TO BE USED TO RENT AIRPLANE.

INFORMANT RENTED CESSNA 3100 i, REGISTRATION: 8137M, TWIN

ENGINE, COLOR WHITE OVER BLUE. (DU)

CUSTOMS EXPRESSED GREAT INTEREST IN AND APPRECIATION

FOR OPPORTUNITY TO SEIZE BOMBS BELONGING TO BOSCH WHO"

THEY CONSIDER A CONSTANT THREAT IN TRYING TO CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

ING IDENTS BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND CUBA. (A)(V)

AT 9:40 PM APRIL 21 INSTANT INFORMANT LANDED CESSNA AIRPLANE

IN MIAMI. BOSCH AT THAT TIME WAS ON HIS WAY TO MIAMI

INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT WITH LOSE ANTONI MULET CONZALEZ AKA (AL)

CONFIDENTIAL.

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that' it be suiably

paraphrased in order ta protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305279

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Releasedander the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

(Hutey:

H1: 11-14-201.

-3 (Rev. 1-27:61

DECODED COPY

: AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM • RADIO

*X TELETYPE

Tolson

DeLasch

Moht,-

Wick -

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan.

Tavel -

Trotterr.

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

PAGE THREE

FROM MIAMI 220440

GUAJIRO WHO WILL FLY AS CO-PILOT. INFORMANT UNDER IMPRESSION

GERVELIO GUTIERREZ CONCEPCION AND BOBBY (LNU), BOTH

CUBAN NATIONALS, WILL PARTICIPATE IN DELIVERY OF BOMBS TO

NAPLES. (A)U)

MIAMI IS MAINTAINING TELEPHONE AND RADIO CONTACT WITH

CUSTOMS AND SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

RECEIVED: 2A58 AM RPT

JAITAXON:

CONFDENTIA!:

DocId: 32305279 Page 13

---

