# docid-32329634

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90087-10017

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-7893-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/15/1962

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

IR WIN SIDNEY WEINER

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS:

RPT, REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32329634

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSaSSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UN: ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J-STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

SA HAROLD B. ROSS

11/15/62

Office:

Chicago

62-6006

Bureau File No.:

63-7893

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

CHARLES W. BRAY;

CENTRAL CASUALTY COMPANY;

HOVER

BRAY SERVICES, INC.

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

Department requested investigation be instituted

the money that went from Teamster Locals

for bonding premiums for bonding requirements madè'

mandatory by the Landrum-Griffin Bill in 9459 to

determine whether.or not the premiums may have

been diverted to Chicago racketeers or Teamsters

officials.

Also requested investigation to deter-

mine the

recipients of the profits of the bail

bond business since this is alleged to be in the

control of the racketeers. Background concerning

the Teamster bonding program set forth.

- p-

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TATE 1/29/86 BY SPYELL C

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it anc

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency

c...

DocId: 32329634 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

This investigation is predicated upon a memorandum

dated October 15, 1962, IrOM HERBERT J. MILLER, JR., Assistant

Attorney General, Criminal Division to the Director, Federal

Bureau of Investigation. This memorandum stated in part as

follows:

"Allegations have been received that Paul and Allen

that Allen Dorfman has supplied subject Hoffa with large

sums of money. One of the areas in which misapplication of

moneys has been alleged is the Teamster Bonding Program.

"After passage of the Landrum-Griffin Bill in

September, 1959, the Teamsters began to set up a program to

handle the bonding requirements made mandatory by the Act.

The Summit Fidelity and Surety Company of Akron, Ohio, a

subsidiary of the Illinois Reserve

Insurance Company, was

chosen to write the bonds.

The United Benefit Fire

Insurance

Company of Omaha and the Styvesant Insurance Company were to

reinsuring companies. An Illinois agency of Summit

was set up by Sol c*Schwartze a close associate of Allen ALL

Dorfman, and Irwin veiner, a business associate of Chicago

racketeers Obbiev rabotta,

Marshally/Caifano and 'Phil Alderisio.

(Subjects of lnvestigation in the Organized Crime Program

When the McClellan Committee released a letter publicizing

the Dorfman and mob control of the Teamster bond commissions,

the Illinois Reserve Insurance Company withdrew its subsidiary,

Summit, from the program.

CANE

"The Teamsters then searched for another vehicle

for their bonding program.

Francisco criminal lawyer

expert and alleged swindler, was contacted. Hopps, a

Stewart Hopps torinsurance

been under indictment in

reputation of rainine controlN

of companies to siphon off good securities while replacing

1d. for

= 2-

d008510015

DocId: 32329634 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John T. "Kennedy"AsSassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

them with worthless ones. Hopps contacted several companies

but was unable himself to put the deal together. He did

introduce a young insurance man, Charles W. Bray, to Schwartz,

Weiner and Dorfman; Bray in the

latter part of 1959 succeeded

in establishing a program.

"Bray, who inherited an insurance business from

his father, had a small company in Illinois called Central

Casualty Company, the former LaSalle Insurance Company.

He also had an agency, Homer Bray Services, Inc. Central

Casualty was unable to be the prime underwriter because it

lacked the Treasury list certification required by the Act.

Bray arranged for United Benefit Fire Insurance Company of

Omaha to be the underwriter.

Bray's contact in United

Benefit was a man named Earl Fo

ceiry, a vice-president and

a director of the company.

144

"Bray then arranged for reinsurance up to the first

$100,000 with the following companies:

Tri-State Insurance

of Tulsa, Oklahoma (30%); United Bonding of Indianapolis,

Indiana

(10%); and Houston Fire and Casualty, Fort Worth,.

Texas (15%) •

United Benefit was to keep 25% and Central

Casualty, Bray's company, was to take 20% The excess over

$100,000

up to $500,000 was to be reinsured with Lloyds of

London. "dy"

"Bray's agency, Homer Bray Services, Inc., was

designated the general agency for the bonding. Bray also

set up

a local agency, Oxford Agency, Inc., incorporated in

Illinois in December,

1959, and Homer Bray Services (Canada),

Ltd.

Schwartz and Weiner gave Bray the applications that

Summit had received before it pulled out.

These applications

reportedly represented approximately 80% of the Teamster

locals throughout the country and an estimated

$1,000,000

in commissions over a three year period.

"Bray arranged a reinsurance treaty for Central

Parama (later of Nassau,

Company, with unknown assets.

-3-

-OpE: 1001.1

DocId: 32329634 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC "2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"There have been conflicting reports as to the

percentage shares of the participants but apparently Schwartz

and Weiner were to receive 20% of business they brought.

Bray was to get 25% as general agent out of which he would

pay his sub agents, and United Benefit was to get 374% from

the other companies for the reinsurice.

which Central was also assuming along with the Teamster

bonding business. It has been alleged that this was done

in order to give

Weiner's agency, the American Bail Bond

Company, nationwide coverage through Central Casualty and

United Benefit.

"The business which should have been a highly

profitable one crashed in approximately two

reasons have been assigaed for the tailure - (1) that Bray,

relying on Dorfman's promises to send Central Teamster

A & H & Health & Welfare business, as well as various types

of insurance

related to loans from the Teamsters Pension

Fund, overextended himself in anticipation of the added

business which never came; (2) that, although the Teamster

and bail bonds were highly profitable, Central wrote high

risk auto and taxicab insurance which

resulted in heavy

losses; (3) that money was diverted from the company to

Schwartz, Weiner and Dorfman.

"In November, 1960, Oxford which had been in Bray's

name, was taken over by Schwartz and Weiner and a special

account opened at the Exchange Bank in Chicago - with which

bank Dorfman and the racketeers have frequently dealt.

"In 1961, United Benefit was denied a license in

the District of Columbia reportedly because of a false filing•

United Benefit was

shaky and the decision was made to replace

it as primary carrier.

"Bray contacted Resolute Insurance Company

Providence, Rhode Island,

whose president is

Lewis Morganstern.

-4.

RHODE

DocId: 32329634 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John t. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

Resolute agreed to become the underwriter. In

September,

1961, Central Casualty and United Bonding were

canceled

as

reinsuring companies retroactive to July 15, and in November,

Houston Fire and Casualty was canceled and Resolute became

the only carrier of the first $10099000.

"The

agency for the insurance was changed also

from Oxford to Titan Management Corporation - an Irwin

Weiner Company:

ILL

"In December, the state insurance director, Joseph

Gerber (of whom there have been reports of collusion with

Dorfman and Hopps) investigated Bray's firm, Central Casualty.

In January, 1962, Gerber announced that the

firm was short

one and one-half

million dollars and

shortly thereafter the

firm was liquidated.

"According to an anonymous letter to the Department

in early 1962, Bray was summoned to the offices of Bieber

and Brodkin, attorneys who frequently represent racketeers,

alid was confronted by Phil Alderisio who told Bray that he,

Alderisio, was interested in seeing Bray pay his debts and

that Alderisio did not go to court to enforce them Alderisio

told Bray that he expected Bray to pay off debts to the

Weiner group, the R. O. R. agency (partners are Don Roth

and Cozie Rothfield) and

the Guaranty Bank (the old Southmoor

bank) in that order. James Egan of Denver, Colorado, an

associate of Bray's who is now in business

with Sam Kaye

of Miami, was also visited, three days later, in Miami by

Santos Traficante who had a similar message for him.

"Toll call studies have revealed that the Dorfmans

played a prominent role in the Bonding Program though nominally

not officers of the companies.

"It is requested that Charles Bray and James Eagan

be interviewed and an investigation be instituted to trace

a requested that.

the money that went from the Teamster Locals for bonding

-5 =

j008113013

-= -

DocId: 32329634

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

premiums through the various companies in order to determine

whether or not the funds may have been diverted to Chicago

racketeers or Teamsters officials. This investigation

should include a determination of the amount of commissions

received by Weiner, Schwartz and Bray - and the identity

of the bonding agents.

"The investigation should also determine the

recipients of the profits of the bail bond business since

this is alleged to be in the control of the racketeers. In

that connection, it should be noted that the Cosmopolitan

Company of Chicago took over Central's bail bond business in

early 1962 and has Since acquired control of United Benefit

• Fire of Omaha.

Cosmopolitan officers and directors

include the names of Volin and Bergman. Determination

should be made if the volin is the same person who was in

the Weiner-Volin agency and if the Bergman is related to

the Bergman-Lefkow agency frequently used by

Dorfman.

"Perhaps significant is the fact that Irving

Benjamin, the Illinois state insurance investigator in charge

of the Central Casualty review, has since taken a position

with Cosmopolitan.

"Potential violation include s 13 (c) of the

Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act, violation of 18

U.S.C. 1001

in connection with filings required by Treasury

and

Interstate Commerce Commission, and other Government

agencies, tax evasions, mail fraud and interstate transporta-

tion of stolen property."

Enclosed with this memorandum was a copy of an

anonymous letter to the Department which was postmarked

at Chicago, Illinois at 2:00 p.m. on April 30, 1962.

This

letter stated as follows:

"The Irwin Weiner-American Bonding Agency,

Teamsters Bond-Guaranty Bank-Bray-Central

Casualty-Crime Syndicate tieups

- 6'-

10088-150121

DocId: 32329634

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of T992 (44 USC '210T Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"In 1959 the Bond required of the Teamsters Union officials

and employees under the terms of the Magnum-Griffin act

was

written by the Summitt Insurance Company.

"The broker of record was the American Bonding Agency of

Chicago which is headed by Irwin Weiner.

"The Chicago Tribune and other papers claimed that Weiner

was a well known partner and associate of

gangsters and

insinuated that Allen Dorfman, Hoffa's favorite broker,

and perhaps Hoffa himself were sharing in commissions estimated

at close to $1,000, 000..

"The 'heat' on the Summitt Insurance Company was too great

for that company's owners to stand. (The Allen Blank-Reserve

Insurance

Company group).They cancelled the Teamsters

bond and cancelled the

'General Agency' authority which

Weiner-American Bonding Agency held for the writing of

bail bonds nationwide.

"Weiner and his associates were desperate for a market.

"Charles W. Bray, President of Central Casualty Company

of Illinois, President of Homer Bray Service Inc. (a General

Agency) and

President of Oxford Agency, Inc. (a local agency)

developed a market via the United Benefit Fire Insurance

Company of Omaha, Nebraska.

"Bray's company, the Central, took heavy reinsurance but

it could not 'front' the Teamsters Bond because it was not

on the U. S. Treasury Approved List.

"The deal that Weiner and his associates made with Bray

was that Bray's Oxford Agency would get the entire commission

on the Teamsters Bond but that Bray would secure for Weiner-

American Bonding Agency a nationwide Bail Bond General Agency

for both United Benefit and Central Casualty at extraordinarily

high commissions (60% on the published basic 2% rate and the

- 7-

490810011

DocId: 32329634

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John'F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

right to keep 100% of anything above the published rate that

they could gouge out of customers).

'Bray to have no interest in the Bail Bond General Agency.

"Things went as planned and Bray, quite truthfully, testified

before Examiners of the McClellan Committee that he and his

family were the sole owners of Oxford Agency and that Oxford

Agency was the sole broker on the Teamsters Bond.

"The loss record on the Teamsters Bond was excellent and

the loss record on the Bail Bond business was even better.

"United Benefit, Central Casualty, Oxford Agency,

American

Bonding Agency, Bray and Weiner were all doing well and 1960

saw a great intimacy growing up between the Bray and Weiner

groups and insurance activities between them expanded to

Taxicabs, Financial Guarantee Bonds, Mortgage Guarantees,

Contractors Completion Bonds, etc.

"Central Casualty

and the Bray interests needed more capital

to handle these lines and so did United Benefit, whose then

President, Earl Cefry, was an intimate friend of Bray.

"Weiner arranged for a $200,000 loan to the Bray group from

the Exchange National Bank of Chicago secured by a Guaranty

Bond of United Benefit and than later for a $150,000 loan

from the Southmoor Bank (now Guaranty Bank) of Chicago

secured by the pledge of Central Casualty stock®

"Bray's Vice President Jim Egan also negotiated a $150,000

loan from the Pan American Bank of Miami, which loan was also

secured by Guaranty Bond of United Benefit.

"The capital of both Central Casualty and United Benefit

was increased, Central's largely by indirect subscriptions

from those who did the borrowing

and United's in part from

this method.

- 8 -

DocId: 32329634

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"In 1961 things begạn to go bad. The Teamsters Bond and

the Bail Bond business remained very profitable from an under-

writing standpoint but the orthodox agents of both Central

and United Benefit began drawing away from these carriers

because of the 'gangster types' with whom they were forced

to deal:

"The loss record on the taxicab business was horrible and

the claims under financial guarantee and contractors bonds,

tremendous.

"The Chicago Tribune and other papers started a campaign

against Irwin Weiner as being the front for Crime Syndicate

ownership of a Chicago Lard Processing firm 'Twin Foods of

Illinois.*

"Court action over the licensing of Twin Foods ensued and

the courts held that 'unsavory ownership and affiliations'

had been proved.

"The Company's license was refused and the papers shrieked

about Weiner and his Crime Syndicate pals--Sam (Tootsie)

Bataglia, Milwaukee Phil Alderesio, Joey Acaro, etc.

They

tied in the American Bonding Agency and rehasbed the Teamsters

Bond situation.

"This was

too much for the British controlling stockholders

of United Benefit.

In May 1961 they fired the company's

President, Earl Cefry, and cancelled all contracts with

the Bray,

Central Casualty, Oxford Agency, American Bonding

Agency group.

"Bray was able to replace the Teamsters Bond with the Resolute

Insurance Company of Rhode Island, through that Company's

President (Morganstern of Hartford) and to once again get

heavy reinsurance back for Central Casualty Insurance Company•

- 9 -

DocId: 32329634 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"The United Benefit gave an extension of six months for the

Bray-Weiner group to get a new market on bail bonds and

meanwhile Bray's Central Casualty Insurance Company granted

100% to United Benefit®

"All other classes were cancelled by United Benefit.

"Without United Benefit's help the Bray group simply did not

have enough resources to weather the storm caused by loss of

agency plant, terrific losses on taxicab fleets, financial

guarantee bonds, contractors bonds, etc. and they rapidly

approached insolvency.

"Weiner and his associates saw

'the handwriting on the wall'

and began to make moves to protect

themselves.

"Charles Bray was ordered to appear at a meeting which was

Chairmaned by Milwaukee Phil Alderesio, flanked by several

sinister

'guards' (sic!)

"At this meeting Bray was instructed to sign his Oxford

Agency stock in blank and turn same over to Irwin Weiner.

"There was a considerable display of 48's and a very blood

curdling discussion as to what would happen to Bray and his

family if he did not obey.

"Bray signed and at a later meeting held in the offices of Harris

& Burman, control of the Oxford Agency was turned over to

Weiner and his associates (i.e. control and ownership of the

commissions on the Teamsters

Bonds) .

"A little later Bray was instructed to appear at another

meeting and this time he was ordered to have the Central

Casualty Company cancel its very profitable reinsurance of

the Resolute on the Teamsters Bond.

(This so that Weiner-

Oxford et al would get more commission by replacing the

reinsurance elsewhere).

- 10 -

DocId: 32329634 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination RecordS Collection Act of 1992 Y44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"Bray, frightened to death, obeyed.

"Thus,

Weiner andhis associates became the sole owners of the

Oxford Agency and the huge commissions on the Teamsters Bond.

"Later, fearing an investigation of Oxford, Weiner arranged for

Morganstern of the Resolute to transfer the brokerage to a new

corporation owned by Weiner et al--The Titan Agency.

"In December 1961 the Illinois Insurance Department took protective

custody of Central Casualty Insurance Company.

In February 1962

Central Casualty Company was put into liquidation.

"Bray and his various companies literally 'owed everybody' and his

biggest source of income, the Teamsters Bond, had been taken away

at gun point.

"Again Weiner called Bray to a conference. Again Milwaukee Phil

Alderisio was the spokesman.

"(Bray states that at the meeting there were also present four

elder statesmen of the Crime Syndicate, but he will only divulge

the names to those from whom he feels he may get protection.)

"At this meeting Bray was told that Weiner was "stuck' for the

return premiums and outstanding losses on the taxicab lines

placed with the defunct Central Casualty Company as well as for

the return premium on the Teamsters Bond reinsurance (which had

not been paid by the time the Illinois Department stepped in);

"Bray protested that the Teamsters Bond commission he had assigned

to Weiner far exceeded the sums under discussion but Alderisio

remained adamant and Bray was told that they didn't dare where or

how he raised the money. The Weiner group must get theirs first--

and soon--or else!!:

- 11 -

donatio:

DocId: 32329634

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSaSSination Records" Cöllection Aöt of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"They then added that the R.O.R. Agency of Chicago was also stuck

for return premiums and losses and that the same agent's partners,

Don Roth and Cozie Rothfield (of the Kansas City Mob), were behind

the Guaranty Bank. (old Southmoor Bank of Chicago).

"Bray was told that R.O.R. and Guaranty Bank must be number 2 and

number 3 on the payments list, any laws of receivership to the

contrary.

"About a week later, former Vice President Jim Egan of Central

Casualty, who was in Miami, (where he has a local agency) got

a call from Milwaukee Phil

Alderesio.

"Alderesio called on Egan and told him that he knew that Egan,

Bray and a man named Sam Kay owned a firm speculating in foreign

currency:

"He repeated the instructions given to Bray by 'the Mob' and told

Egan

that if he wanted to live, all money must go first to Weiner

et al, then R.O.R. and the Guaranty Bank.

To Hell with what was

due to the Pan American Bank or anyone else.

"Later the reputed big time mobster, Santos Traficante called on

Egan and repeated the warning.

"Both Bray and Egan are terrified but they will not rush in and

volunteer information as they are afraid of being tailed; in

fact Bray

was very cautious and not at all helpful when the

F.B.I. interviewed him.

Now, however, he realizes that his only

safety lies with the U. S. Government and it proper government

authorities call they will give all possible help.

"Bray's home address is 820 North Glenayre Road, Glenview, Illinois.

Egan's home is in Denver but he is staying in Miami at the Wautilus

Hotel and works out of Sam Kay's office, Miami, Jeiferson 1-0408.

"As to the Teamsters Bond. Two different companies have offered

to write same at a saving of over $200, 000 but it remains with

the Resolute because

commission to Weiner's Titan Agency and Titan has informed

Morganstern of the Resolute that they are in a position to see

that no losses will be reported to his company.

- 12 -

10081-10011

DocId: 32329634 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John"T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44/ USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"WEINER-AMERICAN BONDING-ET AL

"With further reference to the American Bonding Agency-Irwin

Weiner United

States-wide bail bond operations:

"Pretty generally all state insurance department officials and

United States

Governmental department officials with whom I

have talked are thoroughly aware of the fact that the control

of Bail Bond facilities is an absolute essential to the rackets

and to organized crime.

"(An idea of how important this is may be gained from the facts

which show that to get bail bond facilities Weiner, et al

originally gave up the huge commission on the Teamsters Magnum

Griffin Act Bond.)

"From what Weiner

and others have stated it seems that the

Treasury Department and the F.B.I. have both extensively inves-

tigated his organization without being able to discover the facts.

"The reason for this probably lies in the very nature of the bail

bond business which is quite unlike any other form of insurance

activity.

"On bail bonds the published

tariff rate differs by state but is

on average $2.00 per $100 of bond granted.

"Commissions paid to a bail bond agent vary from 25% to 60% of

this basic tariff premium (depending upon volume, past loss

record, etc.).

"Generally speaking the books of both the insurance company and

the bail bond agent clearly reflect these figures, and taxes are

properly

paid on same.

"As different from any other form of insurance coverage, the bail

bond business is , however, allowed to charge a policy fee or

service fee and this fee

runs anywhere from $8.00 to as high as

$20.00 per hundred of bail bond coverage.

"In

some states,

such as California, it is mandatory that this

service fee show on the face of the

policy but the

majority of

states are pretty liberal in allowing the 'fee' to be a personal

transaction between a bail bond agent and his client.

- 13 -

DocId: 32329634 Page 14

---

## Page 15

("Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 62-6006

"Since the insurance company gets no part of this fee,

it

isn't very curious and is not interested in the bookkeeping.

"In many instances the fee or a portion of same is paid in

cash and for a big agency, such

as Weiner's, the cash trans-

actions are in very large figures indeed.

"In addition to the premium and the policy fee most clients

have to put up collateral and here again is a field where

the bail bond agent has many possibilities of making money.

"Frequently, for a hard pressed client, the bail bond agent

will demand

an interest

in the man's business,

a share in

the ownership of his real property, etc.; or else let him

go to jail.

"The biggest volume of bail bond business is, however,

definitely directed by those who control organized crime.

When organized crime guarantees one of its minions - no

he splits his policy fee with the organization directing

business to him.

"Generally speaking, each major segment of organized crime

has its own major bail bond connection and these are usually

rather loose partnerships which are very difficult to trace

because what is due from one partner to another is often

settled through some apparentlyunrelated business transaction.

"(For example, Weiner has boasted, and those who were in the

know in Cuba have confirmed, that for his services to phil

Alderisio--Santos Traficante, etc. he was given a substantial

interest in the Deauville Gambling Casino and the Capri

Gambling Casino in Havana.

When Weiner last talked about this

he was crying about his loss of a vast fortune occasioned by

Castro.)

- 14 -

10020.001

DocId: 32329634

Page 15

---

