# docid-32289291

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10067

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-218

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 05C 2107 Notel.

Case#:NHT 45679 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/22/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, INTV, COOPER, R. MRS., REL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

HT 45679

DocId: 32289291

Page 1

191

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIOE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY 21,

1961

LETYPE

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahar

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoad

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Roses

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

- 22-61

PP 10-25 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAGg CHICAGO 192-3731 2P

GUS ALEX, ARA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C PREVIOUSLY ADVISED THAT MRS. R. COOPER,

JR. WAS FORMERLY MARRIED TO LOUIS ARGER, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF ALEX,

AND WHO RUNS STRIP JOINTS AND AMUSEMENT CASINOS ON SOUTH STATE STREET,

• FROM WHICH ESTABLISHMENTS ARGER IS ALLEGED TO DERIVE INCOME• MRS.

R. PAREN HELEN END PAREN COOPER, JR. INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED THAT SHE

MET ARGER AS A RESULT OF WORKING AS A CASHIER FOR UNCLE OF ARGER,

NAMELY JAMES SAVOLOS, ABOUT TWENTY FIVE YEARS AGO, WHO AT THAT

TIME WAS OPERATING SEVERAL RESTAURANT SUPPLY STORES IN CHICAGO. ARGER

WAS ALSO EMPLOYED BY SAVOLOS AT THAT TIME AND AFTER A SHORT

ACQUAINTANCE WITH ARGER. SHE MARRIED HIM• SHE SAID THAT DUE TO A

CLASH IN PERSONALITIES SHE DIVORCED ARGER AFTER LIVING WITH HIM FOR

ONLY A SHORT TIME• SHE SAID SHE HAS HAD NO CONTACT WITH ARGER SINCE

THEIR DIVORCE AND KNOWS NOTHING OF HIS PRESENT ACTIVITIES OR ASSOCIATES..

SHE STATED THAT SHE NEVER KNEW ARGER TO BE INVOLVED IN ANY ILLEGAL

OPERATIONS• SHE STATED THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW ALEX, HUMPHREYS,

GIANCANA OR FERRARO. SHE STATED SHE MET SIDNEY KORSHAK ONCE A FEW

YEARS AGO AND HE WAS INTRODUCED TO HER AS A FAMOUS HOLLYWOOD MOVIE

STAR ATTORNEY.

IT

IS TO BE NOTED THAT SIDNEY KORSHAK IS AN ASSOCIATE

62 MAY 26 1961

REG

92-5782-218

8 MAY 22 1061

END PAGE ONE

NW 45679 DocId: 32289291 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

OF ALEX AND REPRESENTS MANY OF THE HOODLUMS IN THE CHICAGO AREA.

DURING THE INTERVIEW, MRS• COOPER WAS VERY EVASIVE ANSWERING ANY

DETAILED QUESTIONS CONCERNING ARGER AND STATED THAT SHE DID NOT WANT

TO DISCUSS HIM, AS VERY FEW PEOPLE KNEW SHE WAS EVER MARRIED TO

ARGER, INCLUDING HER STEPSON, DOUGLAS COOPER, WHO RUNS R. COOPER,

JR., INC. IN CHICAGO, ONE OF THE LARGEST GENERAL ELECTRIC

DISTRIBUTOR-

SHIPS IN THE MIDWEST• SHE STATED SHE MARRIED R. COOPER, JR. IN

NINETEEN FORTY TWO AND THAT SHE HAS BEEN A WIDOW SINCE NINETEEN

FIFTY TWO, WHEN HE DIED. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED

THAT CHESTER MICHAELS, BROTHER OF MRS. R. COOPER, JRO, WHOSE INTERVIEW

HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY REPORTED, OWNS THE BUILDING HOUSING THE CROSSROADS

RESTAURANT AND RECEIVES THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS PER MONTH RENTAL FROM

BILL FISHMAN, OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT. INFORMANT STATED THAT THE

CROSSROADS RESTAURANT EMPLOYS SEVEN GIRLS AT ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE

DOLLARS PER WEEK, AND THAT THESE GIRLS RECEIVE TWENTY FIVE CENTS

COMMISSION ON EACH DRINK SOLICITED AND THREE DOLLARS COMMISSION ON

EACH BOTTLE OF CHAMPAGNE SOLICITED FROM A CUSTOMER. INFORMANT STATED

THAT FISHMAN HAD INFORMED HIM THAT THE CROSSROADS RESTAURANT NETS

ABOUT TWELVE THOUSAND DOLLARS PER MONTH, AND THAT THE QUOTE OUTFIT

UNQUOTE GETS HALF OF THIS OR SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS. AS PREVIOULSY

REPORTED BY CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C, ALEX ALLEGEDLY DERIVES

INCOME FROM THE OPERATION

HOAT GROSSROADS RESTAURANT. ALEX

ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH

SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END

WA 11-35 PM OK FBI WA HFL

NW 45679 DooId: 32289291 Page 3

---

