# docid-32289650

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10426

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 166-1672-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/02/1966

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289650

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jolr f. Kennedy AssaSSination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAD OF

INVESTICATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 24

1955

FBI CHICAGO

TELE

ТУРЕ

852PMCST DEFERRED 2-2-56 HRF

TO DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM CHICAGO 192-415\

Vame B

Nr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mi. Mohr

Mr. Wick

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callaha

Mr.

Conra

Mr. Felt.

Mr

Gale

Mr. Ros

Mr. Suilivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

FELIX ALDERISIO, AKAY AR.

91

REMYTEL FEBRUARY TWO INSTANT.

PC ADVISED TODAY HE CONFERRED TELEPHONICALLY WITH ERNIE TERRELL EN

WHO INFORMED HIM THAT HE RECENTLY MET WITH HERBERT MUHAMMAD. HERBERT

TOLD TERRELL THAT ALTHOUGH HE AND CLAY WENT TO NEW YORK ON EVENING

JANUARY TWENTY SEVEN LAST HE FELT SURE THEY WOULD NOT SIGN FOR TERRELL

-CLAY FIGHT SINCE TEDXBERNNER INFORMED HERBERT THAT NY ATHLETIC

COMMISSION WOULD NOT ALLOW BRENNER TO GIVE THEATER RIGHTS TO MAIN BOUT,

INC., WHICH IS OWNED BY MUSLINS. HERBERT ADVISED TERRELL THAT CLAY

WOULD NOT SIGN CONTRACT TO FIGHT IN NY UNLESS MAIN BOUT GIVEN THEATER

RIGHTS: PC FEELS BRENNER MAY HAVE PREVAILED UPON COMMISSION TO DENY

TERRELLIS APPLICATION IN ORDER TO GET RID OF PC. PC STATED AS FURTHER

EVIDENCE OF DOUBLE DEALING OF BRENNER, OBVIOUSLY ACTING UNDER INSTRUCTION

OF HOODLUMS, BRENNER PICKED TERRELL UP AT AIRPORT JANUARY TWENTY EIGHT

AND TOOK HIM TO COMMISSION OFFICES WHILE ASSURING TERRELL FIGHT WAS ON

WOULD BE APPROVED.

END PAGE ONE

5

FEB

RELAYED TO

5 5 FEB 11 1966

DocId: 32289650 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

ILL, PC HAS SUBMITTED TO INTERVIEW DICKA HACKENBERG, SPORTS COLUMNIST,

CHICAGO SUN TIMES. BESIDES COLUMN FAVORABLE TO PC, HACKENBERG AGREED TO

ACCEPT LENGTHY STATEMENT BEING PREPARED BY PC OUTLINING HIS FORMER

ASSOCIATION WITH TERRELL AND WITH HIS PRESENT DISASSOCIATION WITH

TERRELL. STATEMENT SAYS NOTHING ABOUT INVOLVEMENI OF HOODLUMS OR

ANTHING HAVING TO DO WITH THIS INVESTIGATION.

CG SIX

NINE THREE SIX DASH PC ADVISED TODAY HE ACTED AS CUT MAN

GLASER WHEN GLASER MANAGED FIGHTERS IN CHICAGO IN NINETEEN

TWENTIES. ADVISED GLASER BECAME INVOLVED SOCIALLY WITH CHICAGO HOODLUMS

WHEN AL CAPONE FREQUENTED SUNSET NIGHT CLUB OWNED IN TWENTIES BY

GLASER. ACCORDING TO THIS PC, GLASER ARRESTED IN LATE TWENTIES IN

CHICAGO FOR RAPE OF THIRTEÉN YEAR OLD GIRL AND ACQUITED. OPERATES

TALENT AGENCY KNOWN

PSNASSOCIATED BOOKING, INC. WITH HEADQUARTERS IN

NY. AND OFFICES ALL OVER WORLD. IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED SIDNEYAKORSHAK,

ACCORDING TO PC, SINCE KORSHAK REPRESENTS ENTERTAINERS AS THEIR

N.Y:

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32289650

Page 3

---

