# docid-32313054

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10325-10303

RECORD SERIES: SJ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO :

HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 04/19/1977

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32313054 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

'Released unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

x

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MEREIN IS UNCLACSIIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

TO :

DIRECTOR (105-152711)

(INTD; ATIN: SA JAMES FREEMAN)

FROM:

SAC, SAN IN ERS 813)

SUBJECT: (OCHLORI(S)

IS-CUBA

00: SJ

4/19/77

826198-57665540

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SIO/GEL

REASON: 1.5 (c,d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X 4) (6)

inclosed for the bureau are five pictures which,

according to sJ 1849-ON were taken at

an Alpha 66 meeting,

which was held in Dallas, Texas,

& short time betore the

assassination of President Joa

FLTAGERALD AUNNEDY. DJ

1849-0A Edvised that in photos number 1 and 2 there is a

individual who resembles LEE HARVEY OSWALS.

This individual

is a white male who is wearing a brown jacket, dark brown

pants, white socks and sunglasses and is situated in the

front

row of the audience.

In photos number 3 and 4, ANTONIO

VECIANA, an Alpha 66 organizer, is shown.

In photo number 4

he is standing before a microphone; in photo number 3 VECIANA is

seated between two other men at a table.

The enclosed photos, according to (source are

the property of VECIANA

ind that the source must soo

return these to VECIANA)These photos have not been marke

in any way in order to preserve their original appearance.

The Bureau is requested to observe the enclosed

photos and take whatever

step deened warranted to prove or

disprove that the look-alike to LEE HARVEY OSWALD is, in fact

OSWALD. It is also requested that this matter be given immediate

attention so that this matter can be resolved and the photos

promptly returned to the source and then to ANTONIO VECIANA S)

GLASSI FLU BY 2072.

Bureau

(Encls. 5)

San Juan

(1- 1345950426)

PMR:

(5)

idio 05-514-83

Sanalized

SECREPECIE

Rush A

DooId:32313054 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

I SECRET

ВЕСЬЕВ

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINCO

HEREIN IS UN*:

EXCEPT WHEG:

OTHERWISE

TO:

DIRECTOR (105-152711)

(INTD; ATTN: SA JAMES FREEMAN)

FROM:

SAC, SAN JUAN (G5-514J%)P)

SUBJECT:

OCELOTs)

13- COBA

00: 3J

4/19/77

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SHO/GER

REASON: 1.5 (c,al)

DECLASSIFY ON: X.(2 (6)

Enclosed for the

according to sa ste 0a, vera eaten five nictures which,

which was hold in Dallas,

an Alpha 66 meeting,

Texas, a short time before the

SassinaLion 01 President JOH

FITZGERALD KENNEDY. [SJ

849-0A/Advised that in photos number 1 and 2 there 15 a

individual who resembles LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

This individual

is a white male who is weering a brown jacket, dark brown

pants, white socks and sunglasses and is situated in the

front

row of the audience.

In photos number z and 4, ANTONIO

VECIANA, an Alpha 60 organizer, is shown.

In photo number 4

he is standing before a microphone; in photo number 3 VECIANA is

seated between two other men at & table.

The enclosed photos, according to fourcel e

the property of VICIANA, and that the source must

return these to VECIANA](s)These photos have not been marked

in any way in order to preserve their original appearance.

The Bureau is requested to observe the enclosed

photos and take whatover step deemed warranted to prove or

disprove that the look-alike to LEE HARVEY OSWALD is, in fact

OSWALD. It is also requested that this matter be given immediate

attention so that this matter can be resolved and the photos

promptly returned(to the source and then to ANTONIO VECIAN (S)

CLASSTFTED BY. 2072, 3009

Bureau (Encls. 5)

San Juan

put man

(= 134-050AJ(5)

ten 65-514-83

(5)

SECREEBEL

DoeId: 32313054 Page 3

---

