# docid-32297079

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10355

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SIZOO, J. A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1959

'PAGES: 17

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 9 PRESS RELEASES, 5 NEWS ARTIC

N9.1

DocId: 32297079

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot of

1992 714 05C•

21U Hote).

DATE AND 1 20121

Office Memorandum

Couns

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: MR. BELMONT OWE

DATE: 7/14/59

By Tolson

Belmont

(FROM : J. A, Sizoo

DeLoach

McGuire

Mohr -

SUBJECT:

[CUBAN INTELLIGENCE MATTERS] A

(UL) CLASSIFIED BY 5668SCO/GCL Tomm

Parsons .

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DECLASSITY ON: 25X)(6/

57K) 1/27/98

-oW.C. Sullivan -

Tele. Room

Holloman

supervisor Morgan ot the Washington rield Office called,

this morning to advise that according to WF 1134-S*,

Lieutenant

Madon

MilitaryAttacher/called Doris

Saavedra, wife of the Cuban Military Attache land told her not t

attend the subcommittee meeting on the Hill today, where Pedro Diaz

ing because it would be too dangerous J

Pedro Diaz Lenz is the former head of the Cuban Air Force, who

security Subcommittee.

It is not clear from the comment whether the term "too dangerous"

was intended to indicate that there might be some type of physical

violence, or whether it was felt that from a propaganda and publicity

point of

view it would be dangerous to have persons present who could

be identified as representatives of the present Cuban government *JU

On the basis

of other information, it-appears that the latter

is probably the case.

The Washington Field Office, however, was

Instructed to pase a to a rollable contact at the capital police 2a

force the substance of the above information, in general terms to

protect the source. State has also been telephonically advised.

JAS: CST

(4)

co Mr.

Belmont

Mr.

DeLoach

Mr. Donahoe

JEK

7010

REG- 84 105 7263037

EX. - 137

125 JUL 30 1959

15-

UNCLOS

5 0 A6GM

1490

fate salit

ALL MORATON CORAN A

OTHERWISE

105-92630

DocId: 32297079 Page 2

---

