# docid-32304960

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10287-10090

HQ

105-124049-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES: 47

SUBJECTS :

JGCE, ASSOC, RES, DESCR, TRA, INTV, PHOTO, MIL

OPERATIONS, POLIT, B/F INT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notei.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

2

DocId: 32304960

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NO. 1C

UNITED

STATES GO

ENMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-124049)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION

ANO/OR,

RELEASE OF CHA

IN

RIS DOCUWAEAT.J

APATIONAG, MIAMI (105-8013) (R)LC

SUBIEST 18-47

JUNLA DEL GOBIERNO DE

CUBA EN EL EXILIO

(JGCE) (JUNTA OF

THE

GOVERNMENT

OF CUBA IN EXILE)

IS - CUBA; RA. - CUBA; NM

DATE: 11/216/63

CONFIDENTIAL

(sire)

105-12/010

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERETN ISONCLASSIFIED

Proclane:

RE SHOWN

)Re sierra

EXCEFT W

"TATE ASTHEREES

ANL

00 - Miami

ANTI.

SITE

TEN

BALE

11186

REVIEW

ReBulet to Miami 10/11/63.U

6152A/S

13) 6-274

1 (JER)

.. 035

EWDED

st.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a LHM, dated

captioned as above. u

Copies are being disseminated locally to INS,

U.S.

G-2,

customs, U.S.. Coast Guard, ONs

U/so

Border Patrol

OS1, CIA, and State Department

зака

A Declassity

MARR

MM. T-

is CIA teletype 6/10/63,'titled

TU.S.

617-3

FINANCIAL AID FOR

titled "ALLEGED SUPPORT OF CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES BY

CUBAN EXILES"; CIA teletype 7/3/63,4211-326

AMERICAN FIRMS"; CIA letter 10/14/63, titled "PREPARATIONS

OF PAULINO A. SIERRA'S GROUP TO DESTROY THE ASSO REFINERY

IN HAVA NA''

These CIA communications are all classified

"SECRET'' 7

MM T-2 IS ARTUKO

Moviiento Revolucionario

"FRANK PAIS", Miami, (by request)

i made is 78

MM T-3 1S MM- 639-S, 134-23&

REVIEW

CLASS!

REASO

DATE

Bureau (RM) (EDg

Seview at baron

Miami

38013) / Wh

(1

(1

RJD : plm

905-180, 6 46, 45-12 гро ра

15-/ 11500 Bufile #52-7/290)

(6)

CO

Copy to: CIA/State/RAC

Ke NOV 27 1363

PeRinmiNs- CoorditAtal Q38 LaN APPA:1s Stake Dept.

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for info.

Sprintiele

Date.. lt-/ -43 brUH

Les frie

Chicatio

NW 54464 DooId: 32304960

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECK

CON

RE:

JUNTA DEL GOBIERNO DE CUBA EN EL EXILIO

to him. He would only say that he received some "help

backing in a monetary sense from a number of other sourc

from honest American sources, and clalmed he could sebtitl

if he could get the green light from the United States

Government. Ul

Early in the interview, SIERRA tried to give

the impression he

was in contact with high government

officials, and he had the moral support of the United

States Government.

When pressed for the identities of

the officials he had contacted, he said he had talked to some-

body in the State Department; had received no authorization

from anyone to do anything, but merely had friends

who had

friends in the government.

SIERRA went to great

lengths to assure the interviewing agents of his great

honesty, sincerity, patriotism and religious convictions

SIERRA finally admitted he did make a sizeable

contribution to TONY CUESIA of Comandos L. He claimed the

money was not given to Comandos L to purchase arms. u

On Septenber 23, 1963, MIGUEL DOTRES, an officer

in the organization of ALDO VERA SERAFIN, advised VERA's

anti-CASTRO group has an 83-foot ex-Coast Guard cutter, the

"Soresma"

• DOTRES said $5,000.00 is needed to replace

the boat's gasoline engines with diesel engines, and it was

planned this boat would be used to transport Cuban exiles

from Miami to Nicaragua for future military action in

Cuba.

On September 26, 1963, ALDO VERA SERAFIN, 1382

Northwest 34th Street,

Miami, advised he has an anti-CA STRO

FEZA

SECRET

35.

SECKET

FLA

NW 54464 DooId: 32304960 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

RE :

JUNTA DEL GOBIERNO DE CUBA EN EL EXILIO

group of about twenty individuals, and his group is In

the process of making repairs on the "Soresma"

stated that so far, PAULINO SIERRA's group has donated

about $900.00 for repairs to the boat, and it is expected

a considerably large amount of money will be received from

SIERRA in the

future. (u)

WILLIAM BROWDER

J. W

VAN GORKOM, President, and WILLIAM B AERONER,

General Counsel, Union Tank Car Conpany, 1ll West Jackson,

Chicago,

• Tilinois, advised on October 1, 1963, PAULINO SIERRA

was employed by that company's Legal Department when he

arrived in Chicago as part of a group of Cuban exiles being

resettled in the Chicago area.

He gained confidence of the

company, because of his excellent work in both foreign and

domestic legal assignments, and his apparently sincere desire

to free Cuba from communist domination. Company officials

encouraged SIERRA in all efforts to unite Cuban exile

groups, by continuing to pay his salary, although not now

engaged in company business, even though the company has no

past or future Interest In Cubaand the company is not acting

for any business or government interests.(u

In early. June of 1963, SIERRA brought FELIPE RIVERO

DIAZ, CARLOS RODRIGUEZ QUESADA, DI. MANUEL LOZANO PINO,

ALBERTO GARRIDO, JUAN MEDINA VEGA and GILBERTO RODRIGUEZ,

described as Cuban exile leaders, to Chicago, showed them

through the well-appointed company offices, and introduced

them to company officlals.

The company denied it entertained

the group, or assisted with their expenses, but admitted it

has provided SIERRA with a letter of introduction to the

Government of Colombiasu

SECRET

36

CONFIDENT

NW 54464 DooId: 32304960 Page 4

---

