# docid-32319378

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10369-10012

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-Z8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: JONES

TO: WICK

TITLE :

DATE: 02/23/1967

• PAGES:

147

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

DICTATION VOLUME 13

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, BLIND MEMO, TTY, LET, S/S, NEWS RELEASE, NOTES

V9.1

DocId: 32319378

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Titler

3-24-67

fur hor

M. A. Jones

WILLARD ROBERTSON

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISTANA

INFORMATION CONCERNING

RETURR

9- RM: 4204

Pursuit to Mr. Tolson's re

guest, the following la est

forth from Dultles regarding captioned individual, millionaire Volkswagen

distributor roportedly financially backing Distriel Attorney James

Carriagn in New Orleans:

By commaniention dated 10-18-63, the New Orleana Office

related that an informant, one Trani liegeman, a public relations man

with a notorioas reputation for passing bad checks and associating with

Tarlous gambling figures, was contacted on 8-16-63. Daring thia

interview, he stated that Willand Robertsos, a prominent and wealthy

New Orleans businasaman, was ourrently supporting John Mci either,

a Lostsians guberastorial canikiate in the state Demoeratic primary.

Robertson reportedly had been extremely active in local New Orleans

pollties and had raised large sums of mosey for previous political

campaigns, particularly that of Mayor Vietor Schiro. Bogeman

attribnted these politieal activities to Robertaon'e destre for a good

Gove rument.

Negeman further stated that Robertson had recontly learned

that MicKelthen was being actively backed by Carlos Marcello, a Jefferson

Parish racketoer, who was attempting to raise campaign funds by

promising contributors influence in vartous state appolntments. I was

carrently fell in polltieal circles that If Robertson were to withdraw hia

support, Mekelthen would stand little chance of election. Among thoes

reportedly Interested in removing Robertson as the backer of Meltelthen

was Valted Stetes Senator

Hassell Long, who supposedly was upset over

Marcello'a support of Mekalthen rather than that of candidate Speedy Long,

favored by Senator Long. Speedy Long was regarded as the Democratie

admindst ratton candidate and was considered the choice of the nattonsl

Democratie Party.

Flegenan advised that ll MeKelthen were elocted Govert

of the State of Louislana, il was commonly felt in political eireles that the

state world beeose wide open insofar as gambling and other rac

influences were concerted.

Louisiana In 1964.

1 - Mr. Wick

1 • Ma. Delosch

* * Mr. Tolson

1 = Me. Rosen

1 - Me. Ballivan

ONTINUED)

DocId: 32319378

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. F, C. Sullivan

- MP. Teleon

• Mr. DeLoncia

- Mr. J.P. Mohr

2-23-07

Mr. Wick

Mr. W. A. Branigan

Mr. Boson

Nr. Sullivan

Branigan

ASSASSINATICN OF PRESIDEN

Jl. Malley

J0KK FIIEGERALD KENNNOY

Nie.

Lentian

NOVIDIBER 33, 1963

Mr. CoG. Sallivan

DALLAS, TEXAS

i accordsace with ir, Tolaon'e instructions, there

set out herein intoraation obtained fros Bureau files identi

fiable with Jases C. Garrison, Diatriet Attorney, Orleans Parish,

New Orleans, Louisiana.

BACKGROUND:

DocId: 32319378

Page

Louislana State Bar la June, 1910..

Le nerved An 389 U. B: A

fros January:

1943, to March, 1916, both an an enlisted man

and officer:

He was honorably dischersed. He worved as a

Special Asent of the FBT Eros March 5, 1951, restgning en

July 34,

305l, te mater sittery sunse

His services pere

considered metiniactory.

Garrison vas elected District Attorney of the Parish

o% Orleans, Ker Orleans, Loutniana, taking office in May, 1062.

He mediately becane suvolved in a dispute with the Kee Orleans

Police Departnent over his profomed desire to clean up the

90-c8110d

#ainor vice* in Ber Orloans.

On Bovember 1 aod 3,

1963,

the New Orleans "Timea-Picayune" carried statesonte by

Garrison Charging

that the parish-crininal court judges were

clogging

city

Jails and delaying justice by taking

eXCESSITE YOeREIOn

periods.

Following such charges, the judges

involvod tentatuted

a defamation sult agalent Carrigos. The

trial received

aride publieity and Garrison was found

gailty on

the charges and fined $1,000.

Cutleet

appenled his conviction and on 11-24-64 the U. S. Supreme Court

revorsed this convictios.

The Suprene Court hold that the

olomont of deliberate salice vas lacking in the stateneats

attributed to

Caer1so8.

DEROGATORY DATA:

Bureau

• Isles disclose we have unoubstantiated allo

Eatlons against

Garrison

the olflee of the Distriet Attorsey

62-109060

(11)

CONTINUED - OVER

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Monorandur Dranigan to Bullivar

ABOARSENATION

PRESIDENT

of Orients Parish. They are set out ne follons:

ов 3-20-63 Датоп N. Kola,

anaging Director, Metro-

polsten Crise Comission, Now Orlenes,

adviaod there vas no

Indication that Carpioon, a

Pletract

Attersey,

involves

38-65 Rohn sat he bad

ervale, Chief Investigator

of the Dew Orleans Distriet Attorney's Office.

ORS Involved An

a bribery astuasies.

Gorvals uns a controversial appolatrent

of Carrison's as he hed been dianissed fron the New Orcam

Police Departmont in 1980 for conduct

STERNE

Soth are close personal triends bes

en Sorld Dur

f1 military

(08-9-33-3813 63-8-33-530)

No 1237-C-TE advised he had

2965,

been arreated in Yebruary.

charged with pandering.

poquen:17, 08 3728-60 De Vas

contactod by a representetive of the Now Orleans Blatriet

Attorney's offsee and told that for $3,000 the cano againat

would be dropped.

This source bad previously advised a

Louisiana State Legislater had been Interceding for a vell-la

Deo 0r can nadas and he learned from this naden that Lon

$10,000 the lew Orleans Distriet Attorneyks office would not

prosecute hor or her prostitutes.

(66-6359-3874)

On 7-37-66 BO 1438-C adyined District Attorney Garrison

allegedly had purchased a bar in lew Orlenns and set up one

Jacilo Leo as manager.

Lee, secording te the source, Je a

Source ales said that Curzieen is known to have

ciated vita prostitutes in New Orlesas, (62-9-33-617)

NO 1380-PC advised on 10-31-00 he hnd learned that

Carlos Marcelle on at least one occasion in the past had paid

found-trip air tranportation for

lotel and his bilte are paid by th

Marcelle is & Blew Orleane fanbler and La Cona Meetra

hoodius,

Do recently attended a menting vita trelve other

hoodluss in New Tori City 0-22-00, which recolved wide-spread

publicity in the New Tork City area.

On 0-30-66 he assaulted

• Spoojal Agent of the VSI and le avaiting Pederal trial on

thie Charge.

80 1300-C hes told the New Orleann Office that

Grazison

politienlly asbitious and plass to run for Lieuten

Coverter

In Louisiana during the Pall of 1967.

(037-14333-5;

83-3713-437)

ACTION:

For information.

39810019

DocId: 32319378

Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

onwald Folder

Me. V, C. Bullivan

tr. F. A. Brantgan

WARREN CONISSION

tir- Dolonch

Me. Wick

12 - Довод

2-1-07

- Ne. Sullivan

Mr. Brandgan

Ne- Lendhan

the Contral Intelligence

Agency (CIA) Inforned the Du

that it had received a report

from one of its sources that

New Tock Timeo* Le vorking

on a apocial, project involving a

full-seale exposo of the

Warren Bogart.

According to CIAte source,

the project will

18 ve inble never net bellene originn findings vere not

No source in thie mutter ta Bichard Thoms Cibson,

posedly received the data tron Peter Dies, a triond,

Harren Donna don project, reporter worklag on the mpecial

Based on pro-Cuban activity, he was

No has ta nasavory reputation

rose intormas solely tor the seney

Savolved and shon rejected he offered his serylees to CIA.

CIA is in contact vith his.

Gibaos left the Ualted States

prior to 1000 and has lived ta Airsea aad aurope.

Do sas last

reported reading la Zaglaod.

x 31268 disclose That Peter Frederies Kiass Das Uen

porter for "The Now Tork Times" for a ambor of yoars.

Que

vo Rave been a

moose 0%

this Bureau.

Included are:

of the Rew Tork Sta

20e Co

W1111an Albertse

100, moshes of

det Party) and

Poliah

official to the

10S2098

Tata-Suc

Dad ted

i States.

ACCLONE

lone. This te for infortion,

62×200000

HELscle (T)

3P2-19017,

DocId: 32319378

Page

5

---

