# docid-32312656

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/22/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10324-10405

NY

105-45672-66, 67

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE:

05/12/1961

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN THE US

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 53244 DocId: 32312656

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ATE INFORVITION CONTAINEO

TORSIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

New.

York, New York

May 12, 1961

SECRET

Re: Cuban Situation

T1198

CLASSINED BY 566S-300/nl

DECLASSIFY

QX. 25X.

(JFK)

Dan Brigham;

where he had

place on April 17, 1961.

Brigham advised that he had contacted

a cross section of the

• Cuban exiles in the Miami area in

addition to sources of his own and he desired to furnish the

opinions of Cuban exiles and his own personal opinions

regarding the recent events which took place in Cuba on

April 17, 1961.

Brigham advised that from the Cuban exiles in the

Miami area he ascertained that as a result of the unsuccessf

Invasion of Cuba, which began on April 17, 1961, at the

K818-98

SIDESR J229

(JFK)

as the entire underground and the invasion itself was

Cuban exiles in the Miami area, that CIA was wholly

responsible for the unfortunate events of April 17, 1961.

ascertained that the following individuals were alleged to

be agents of CIA, who were responsible for the planning

and carrying out of the Cuban invasion:

Bernard Barke

David Morales, (First Name Unknown) Williamson] (FirstS

Name manoe caldwell rst Name Coonen In the tadteal

(First Name Unknown) Avignon, and a colonel

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

Searched

Seria zed

Indered

SECRETI

Filed

105-45672-66

NW 53244 DooId: 32312656 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

Cuban Situation

States Air Force, who formerly had been assigned as Air

Attache to the United States Embassy in Ciudad Trujillo,

Dominican Republic.

Brigham also stated that another CIA

agent, who was alleged to have a great responsibility

in the counterrevolutionary plans for CiA, was one Frank

Bender. (X)u)

Brighan stated that at a meeting held in Miami,

during March, 1961, (First Name Unknown) Caldwell/hads)

Informed those present at the meeting that Dr. Jose Miro

cardona was to be chosen as president of the Revolutionary

couno11. Carisham stated that from his sources he ascertaise

that CIA agent Caldwellwas a very Influential individual!

in the planning of the

abortive Cuban invasion of April,

1961}

Brigham further stated

that he also ascertained

that another individual responsible for the failure of the

cuban invasion was one William Wyler, who had previously

used the name of Guillermo Montenegra.

Brigham stated that

he had learned from exiles in Miami that Wyler had been

involved in the recent Cuban invasion to the extent

ransmitting the cIA invasion plans, but he did not kno

o whom wyler had transmitted these plans. u

concerning the william Wyler, mentioned above,

1t is possible that Brigham 1s making reference to William A.

Wieland of the United States Department of State,

Washington,

D.C.,

who formerly was in charge of Caribbean affairs in the

United States Department of State and who recently had been

transferred to Switzerland. (4)

Brigham also advised that from Cuban exiles in the

Miami area he learned that Dan Taylor, who owns and operates

the ferry running between Tampa,

Florida, and Havana, Cuba,

was suspect because of the fact that he travels frequently

to Cuba and while in Havana appears to be ailowed to roam

freely and has not encountered any difficulty while in

Havana with the Cuban Government authorities. Brigham

not an arter no

stated that he had asked Taylor, prior to the Invasion, 1f

arrangeseans euld be scaled out with hin, taylor, to take daly)

SECRET

- 2-

774 53244

DocId: 32312656 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Cuban Situation

him into Cuba to cover the fighting. Brigham stated that

laylor aid nou immediacely answers

but,

after a trip to

Havanas

Cuba, Taylor. contacted Brighan in Miami, Florida,

and said that he could make arrangements for Brigham to

go into Cuba, which offer Brigham said he declined because

he was sheptical of Taylor, because he did not,

at first

contact, agree to take Brigham,

and he felt that Taylor

may have made arrangements

up' when be landad la tube avana do have Erlenen puliet

Brigham also advised that from Cuban sources in

Miami he ascertained that on the weekend of April 9, 1961

the alleged CIA agents, Caldwell and Carranza allegedly

left for Guatemala by plane either lave on the night of

April 7, 1961 or early in the morning of April 8, 1961.

plans had been disclosed by (Caldwell and Carranzals)

Brigham stated that he had two personal sources

in Miami, Florida, whom he contacted, and identified them

as Ex-Colonel Mariano Faget of the Bureau for the Repression

of Communist Activities (BRAC and Enrique Parajon, who

formerly was

the head of the Secret Police in Cuba, under

ex-President Fulgencio Batista, and who is now closely

associated with Mariano Faget.

Brigham stated that he contacted

Faget regarding these allegations and CIA's involvement

and Faget confirmed the names of the CIA personnel in the

Miami area, previously set forth, as being responsible

Response, in the

for the

invasion plans and the carrying

out of these planed

Brigham advised that the conclusions that he

came

to regarding CIA's involvement in the recent Cuban

invasion

were based on the opinion of Cubans now in exile

in the Miami area.

Brigham stated that the Cuban exiles

believed that this recent invasion of Cuba by counterrevolutionaries

may have been designed to fail from the very beginning and

the reason given is that the invasion forces and the

opposition inside the country were all picked up and the

(u)

SECRET

-3-

14 53244

DooId: 32312656 Page 4

---

