# docid-32329053

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90084-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-163193-4

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

10/20/1967

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

COORDINACION DE FUERZAS (CF) (COORDINATION OF

FORCES)

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:. 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32329053

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Re:

COORDINACION DE FUERZAS

CONFID

MM T-2

that Mas now

says he can no longer

operate out of the United

states

against Cuba

because of

pressure put

ment agencies up an united

States federal enforce-

Mas said

he

has suspended military activities

until such time as

establish a military base outside

the United States.(U)

MM T-3, & Cuban exile and & leading figure in

RECE, on October

6;

1967,

advised

that RECE has abandoned

all military activities

and is now going to concentrate on

political activities.

RECE plans to promote political and

propaganda campaigns to influence the United States govern

ment

and the Organization of American States

to take stronger

economic and political steps against the government of Cuba.

MM T-3

said that for no longer exists and groups

previously belonging to this unity group now

are again

operating on their

On October 13,

1967, Laureand

Batista Fall&, 545-

Cadagua, Miami, advised

continues

be an officer.

o1 the Christian Democratic Movement (NDC), an anti-

Castro organization which previousiy belonged to the Coordina

tion of Forces.

Batista said the MDC left the CF in

January, 1966,

knowing it would never succeed.

Batista

advised

the cr no longer exists

groups previously belong-

ing to it are again operating independently.

Batista

claimed that RECE is now concentrating on

the political unification of

the anti-Castro movement having

failed to unify the anti-Castro movement on a military

basis.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI:

It is

the property of the FBI

and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not

to be distributed outside your agency.

CONT

HH 54027 DocId: 32329053 Pagé 2

---

