# docid-32295223

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10214-10499

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

2-1917-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE :

DATE: 09/30/1965

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, RECRUITMENT, CUBAN EXILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

V9:1

DocId: 32295223

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Mian: (2-387)

9•30-65

• OCTRAINET!

MIDIED

Director, #81 (2-1917)- 111

REC- 127 80X-X3

JULIO ATON CORBTANZO PALAU;

GERALD PATEICK HENNING; et al.

NEUTRALITY MATTER

IS - DOMINICAN DEPUDLIC

SECRET

1 - Mr. Patterson

2R

226A1S8

oc.

8/6/95

Close

J60as3h 00

spanak/fee

Enclosed for the Miand and Washington Field Offices is

one copy each of & letter fron Thongs L.

U.S. Departmont

of State, to the Director dated 9 16-65.

The tetcer indicates

hat 1. rving Davidson and Calllemo Bold taniros aro not notine bicasy.

any espacaty for the bepartment of scote in the alleged secruit dos

ment of Cuban exiles for service ta the Dominican Bepublie.

(4) 916-97

Washington Zield Office is authorized to interview

holt Banirez as requestad in Washington

Culllerno

and orcar polo tore

Who has been previously intervieved concerning this natter The

interview should be conducted in accordance with Bureau instructions

regarding intervies of subjects inasmuch as he has been in contact

with subjects of this investigation.

The intorview should dotermino

his complete knovledge of the alleged recruitment of the Cubans to

sorve in the Dominican Republic which would include identities of

persons involved, leaders of the recruitment move, source of the

financing for the project, and any plans that have been made for the

future.

The interview, of course, should not be linited to the above,

but should clarity this matter thoroughly.

loscitied Ey.

44

Enclosure

Exempt from Got Category.

Date of declassification

2 - Vashingtos Field (2:304) • Enclosure

PA Richard M At

→ Date JAN 2

1377

WCP : pel

(6)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLouch

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivon

Tavel

Trotter E

Tele, Room

Holmes *

OCT

Gandy

MAIL ROOM!

MAILED 10

SEP 3 0 1965

COMM-FBI

(See NOTE next page)

9/25/97

CLASSIED BY SUL SAD

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Я

SECRET

TELETYPE UNIT

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

ASSIRICATION AND/OR,

SE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

KP1-15-98

(JEK) 51O1HSA 2-42-98

DocId: 32295223

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE : . 11-14-2017

Letter to SAC, Miami (2-387)

Be:

JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU;

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING; et al.

SECRET

NOTE

ICA on June 9, 1965, furnished data indicating subjects were

forming à commando force in Miami to be used by Dominican General

Antonio Imbert.

They were reportedly recruiting Cuban refugees and

American adventurers to make up this force.

We also received

information fron CIA that Guillermo Belt Ramirez, former Cuban

Ambassador to the United

States, and I. Irving Davidson, Washington,

D. C., public relations man and registered agent of various Latin-

American Governments, may be involved. Subjects indicated contact

with one or both of these individuals who supposedly represented

the United States Government and/or the Organization of American

States (OAS) in recruitment of Cuban exiles to serve in the Dominican

epublic" the son of Belt Ramirez is an informant of the washingtons

ield Office and has furnished information that to his knowledge his

father is not involved with the recruiting of any cubans, but he

had presented a suggestion to the OAS that Cuban technical people

in the United States could be voluntarily formed and placed in the

Dominican Republic as part of the existing Inter-American Peace

Force JA Miami source close to the subject, Hemming, has described

the entire story as a figment of Henning's imagination.,

Interview

with Belt Ramirez should furnish accurate

information concerning this entire matter.

It has been determined

that Belt Ramirez and Davidson are not employed in any capacity by

CIA or the State Department.

- 2 -

SECRET,

DocId: 32295223

Page 3

---

