# docid-32394141

## Page 1

Date:

03/09/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10422-10351

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

RUSS HOLMES wORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : OTTAWA

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE : CABLE: REACTION OF CUBAN AMBASSADOR CRUZ AND HIS STAFF

TO ASSASSINATION

DATE

PAGES

:

11/27/1963

2

SUBJECTS :

CRUZ

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

:

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:

07/09/04

COMMENTS

: JFK-RH11 : F207 : 20040324-1064672

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10422-10351

HH 53320

DocId: 32394141

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE I

544

SECRET

ROUTING

14!

TO

: DIRECTOR

21

3

OTTAWA

FROM :

ACTION:

CAVE Z (WE/BC AND WH/3 NETLIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1759-27 NOV 63)

NFO

:

DEl, D/DC1, DDP, ADDP,

C/C1, /C/SAS 2, VR: i S

RECORDS OFFICER

STAMP

Fire follewingsation

authoris: DE SENSITIZe

SECRET 272LAÁT

27NG 63 IN 6 923

PRIORITY DIE CITE OTTA 1277stero2: 1.

SYDAT KEYWAY JASMINE

R.0. 4l - frit

CI/R-A

CONDUCTED ON-21 MAY 197

REF DIR 85133, PARA 3*

Note: Il Coctaus

_UMPDET CL BY Q122

ressons

1. REVIEW CURRENT JASIME INDIGATESUINIZEAL REACTION OF CUBAN

AMBASSADOR CRUZ AND HIS STAFF TO REPORT OF ASSASSINATION PRESIDENT

WAS

ONE OF HAPPY DELIGHT. AFTER FURTHER INFO WAS RECEIVED

INDICATING THAT OSWALD HAD CONNECTIONS WITH FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

COMMITTEE THERE WAS SOME APPREHENSION CONCERNING POSSIBLE U.S.

REACTION.

1976

2. SPEECH OF CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO UN INDICATED TO AMBASSADOR CRUZ

APR

THAT HE AND HIS STAFF MIGHT BE EXPECTED ADOPT MORE SOMBER ATTITUDE

document under =

IN PUBLIC. SOME TIME LATER AMBASSADOR CRUZ RECEIVED CABLE, APPARENTI

for FOIA Review on

SIGHED"ROA", WHICH ORDERED AMBASSADOR AND HIS STAFF TO GOVERN THEIR

ACTIONS BY OFFICIAL ATTITUDE OF GOVT TO WHICH THEY ACCREDITED.

CRUZ THEREUPON ISSUED INSTRUCTIONS TO HIS STAFF AND TO CUBAN

CONSULATES AND TRADE OFFICE TORONTO AND MONTREAL TO "CEASE LOOKING

HAPPY IN PUBLIC".

101-289248

3. WHEN IT WAS ANNOUNCED IN CANADA THAT AN OFFICIAL REQUIEM HIGH

MASS WOULD BE HELD, CRUZ, DECIDED THAT ON BASIS HIS INSTRUCTIONS

FROM HAVANA HE WOULD HAVE TO ATTEND ALTHOUGH HE MADE IT CLEAR THAT HE

D: 248-5-41

SECRET

2112763

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.

HH 53320

DocId:32394141

Page 2

---

## Page 3

dumber:

Fur sterilo copy on this couma

CLASSIFED MESSAGE

iN É 22 3 PAGE 2

WOULD NOTDO SO IF HE HAD ANY PERSONAL CHOICE IN THE MATTER. CRUZ

ORDERED OFER MEMBERS HIS START NOT TO TAKE PART IN OFFICIAL MASS

OF ANY PRIVATE CEREMONIES OF MOURNING.

4.

THIS INFO RCUD ORALLY TROM SNACQUIRE ON BASIS QUICK REVIEW

JASMINE AND BELIEVED ESSENTIALLY ACCURATI. SMALOVES WILL PROVIDE

WRITTEN REPORT IN DUE COURSE.

5. STATION HAS CONFIRMED THAT AMBASSADOR CRUZ DID ATTEND REQUIEM

MASS AS OFFICIAL REP OF HIS GOVT.

SEGRET

C/S COMMENT: *Because of obvious significance any scrap of information

which bears on President's assassination, desire stations screen carefully all

audio tapes since 22 November 1963 for comments and cable any significant

information so obtained.

SEChE

HH 53320 DocId: 32394141 Page 3

---

