# docid-32165006

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Node*2014 DATE: 11-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10157-10031

RECORDS. SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82555-5445

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : (No Title]

DATE

: 08/20/1965

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: LHO, POST-RE,

ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

• .

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

Re

Hớt

sed under the John F.fKennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

MÃT iNÓz EDiTiON

USA GaN.

REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES

ENT

Memoranaum

alis

TO

Director, FBI (105-82555)

DATE:

8/20/65

CONFIDENTIAL

Legat, Mexico

(105-3702) (P) EXe s

8191/4/27

12070.

SUBJECT: 6-10-93

LEE HARVEY

OSWALD

Date of Declass

Cates no

LE 1503 RAD

1152

R - CUBA

cation indorindig.

JFKL

Rebulet dated 4/26/65.

HEREIR IS CLASSIFIED

BBUTD

8/12/43

Classified by 9803rde/scl

DADR IFK

On:

Declassity

5668 S0/GCi-112/95-JFr

•At Monterey; Nuevo Leon, Mexicoul

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

MEX-27 who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised' that the identification

records maintained at the Monterrey Police Department and at

the Nuevo Leon State Police Department,

contained

no references

whatsoever, to

the name of MIGUEL FONSECA RIVAS:

• on 6/11/65

MEx 32 who. has furnished reltable

Information in

the past,

neighborhood inquiries

and

ascertained that FONSECA 1s a young man, reportedly employed

as a walter,

who resides with his mother at Tecate 120, colonia

Las Mitras:

He said neighbors appeared to know very little

Mind about FonsecA,

contending that he was antisocial and had very

little contact with anyone in the neighbornood.

He stated the

bneighbors advised him FONSECA was employed as a waiter, but

no one could

furnish the name of the establishment where he

worked.

PONSECA was considered in the neighborhood

to be somewhat

odd

st,

6OXiS

7/96

3/3-

ASSIFIED RYS

CLASSIFY ON:

as a member of the warters!

and he was nop

known to administrative officers of the union

on 7/31/65, MEX-26%

who has furnished reliable, infor-

mation in the past, reported that FONSECA and his mother live

alone at Tecate 120, Colonia Las Mitras, and that neither of

them has much contact with neighbors.

He said it was the

general consensus in the neighborhood that FONSECA was not well

adjusted mentally,

-andithe neighbors avoided his company in

the same manne

that FONSECA appeared to detach himself from

- them.

wald that while it was generally belleved in

the neighborhood that FONSECA was employed as a walter,

he had&

encountered no one who cäuld identify the establishment in

Bureau

05-82555-5445

1

•(1 Liaison

Section)

REG 67X-10

9

Mexico City

mms

CONFIDENTIAN

2.

AUG 30 1965

age 19095US. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payrel Sayings Plan

[18I.

SOVIET

CTI

---

