# docid-32201995

## Page 1

Date: 06/26/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10106

RECORDS SERIES :

AIRTEL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NHT 54653 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, MIAMI

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DATE : 04/29/66

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CUBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 2, 4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/27/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

box 377

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32201995

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4

Transmit the following in .

Date:

4R 20106

SSCI BOY #

(Type in plaintert or codel

377-

Via

AIRTEL

,TO:

FROM:

RE:

(Priority)

--- - BENEWED BY FBNUFK TASK

FORCE

DIRECTOR, FBI (455979357

SAC, MIAMI (105-S250) (P)

ON

3194 dat--

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

REPRESENTACICN CUBANA DE EXILTO

TOTAL DENIAL

CUBAN NUPHESENTATION IN CALLE

(RECE)

IS. - CUBA

NM

pel without the

express

zonal of

your Commillce ond the content mainat i

mation outrirls

Whis

document

?on?

Committee.

is prepared

le posse

gesp0nse

losed io unauthonzed

persan

machues by

your request and is not for dissemi-

Reference Miami letter, dated 3/4/66 to Bureau.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of LIN, dated and

captioned as above.

Copies of the Lill are being furnished locally to

INS, CIA, G-2,

State Department Cuban Affairs, Coast Guard,

Customs,

Border Patrol, ONI, OSI and USArAD.

NM T-1 is

Surces L INFORMATION CONTAINED

SURGIN IS UNCLASSIFIM

MM T-2 is

DATE

115/94.3x 3x9803 RANIER

Specific

information furnished by

concerni n:

the receipt or 8500.00 by ORIA DO, BOSCH ATON JOSE ASYCHLO

MULET GONZALE

been furnished the Bureau by airtel

dated 4/22/66,

Screet

in the case entitled "wIRR,

IS - CUBA,

N31"

Bureau file 97-4474.

It is to be noted that

was.

present when this money was paid by lUlT, who signed a chec

gave it to ORLANDO BOSCH

furnished the exact

'ENCIOST:

3

"]

- Bureau (Enc. -

12)

(RM)

/ San Juan (Enc. - }) (Ril)

2-102

105-42603982

- Miami

G."D: jkj

(5)

...br 122

PECi

129.

F55

Appi: V: JUN 13 1566

Special Agent in Charge

Sent -

is:

NAT. INA SEC,

Li,

Per/

-....

--Tr

HH 54653 DocId:32201995 Page 2

---

