# docid-32318857

## Page 1

FReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10367-10020

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

134-10900-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NASA

TITLE:

DATE: 11/28/1962

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

ERNESTO ARAGON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NASA

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO NASA

v9.1

DpcId: 32318857

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 - Nasca

Dates

To:

89704388

subjecte

November 28, 1902

aro sloye to Blankenbalar

Director of steurtty (B4)

National Aeroncuties and space

Administration

40u maryland buenue.

southarast

washingion 25a Do Co

Join tigar Hoover, Dirtetor

ELECTRONIC EQUIFLENT ALLEGEDLY

BELVE DISTALLED IN CUBA

INTERVAL ASCURITY - CUBA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIIC

RATE 1028198 BY 5665-59 sade

(OF!)

Reference is made to my connunteation dated

October 2, 1962, your rejeTence BU/BAFERJI.

ins the captloned

matter.

Dr. Ernesto Aragon y Godoy, 233 East Staty ninth

street,

Revolut tonam Council' (CRC)e AerredatA Deo Lose dire

camona, neat of the wic, relative to she information

castro regime to detect ord interfere with lourchings from

On November A, 1962, Dr. Aragon furnished a dcounsnt

distributed by the cic dobes soptenber 5. 1902, et atent,

12051&00

InsE CoCument Was prEpAYed Dy the URG DOBER ON

information ubich the Che redeived fron driluiduale uno had

recently come out of cube an estles and from information

recelved by the Che through letters which were sent fram Cuba.

iro Aragon also jumianed e copy of an affidault

talen from one of the pruividuals interolowed by members af

the che chion sets forth information this indiuidual had

personally obserued or inen fron firsthand sources.

Translations of the abova mentioned documents are

atteched for your information.

11912

110W

++105-04334116070070)

NOT RECORDED

1-134-10900 (Aragon)

78 NOV 29 1962

128

54 DE003619982121

SHE NOLE PAGE THO

DocId: 32318857 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(41 USC 2107 Hotel-

DATE: 11-14-2017

10% Lloyd lI. Blankenbaser

tro Arigon Jurther aufeed that this was the

only infomasim he had been able to obtain in case nabeer-

Le poinsed oud shat infornasion which the ChC receives fron

та воіив слав сита іл палу іласалова саллс де

perifial.

ind tuiduale within the CRo relative to the type or electronto

egutpens which might have been inatalled or posetbly would

be installed in Cubo, and he hat been informed that they hot

no specifto detatle concerning these alleged Inetallations.

Ine 2 osures 2

National Aeronautles and Space laminietration (NASA)

called attention to item appearing in press indicating that

Cardono, heod of CRO, in discussing ams shipments being

sent to Cuba by the Soulet Union,

Indicated that chese arms

would inderfere with U. S. missile launchings. NASA reguested

any data which would have bearing on valialty of this information.

Since we have been in close contact with Aragon, we inatruated

New Yoris Office to contect him concerning this.

Aragon made

available the attached docents in Spanieh which haue been

translated and the English versions are being trunanitted to

NASA.

383-100910

DocId: 32318857 Page 3

---

