# docid-32989764

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290

SECTION-I

Serial Scope:

X, 1, 3X, 1011730,38

NW 55155

DocId: 32989764

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FROM

SPRAGUE, Richard Counsel & Director

Select Com on Assassi

Edwarâ H. Levi

Attorney General

DESCRIPTION

Access to FBI info on Dr. King

re Revolutionary Action Movement,

Freedom Democratic Party and

Invaders

• *REMARKS

Prepare response for Attorney

General's signature and retur

to OLA, Room 1603 for cover ltr.

NW 03155-DocId: 32959764 PacAAL CONTROL

DÄTE OF DOCUMENT SUSPENSE DATE

12/30/76

DATE RECEIVED

1/4/77

REFERRED TO

FBI

CC: AG

CONTROL NO.

C#2036

DATE

1/6

Shaheen

PREPARE REPLY FOR SIGNATURE OF

Edward H. Levi

REPLACES AD-820

WHÍCH MAY: BE, USED:

DJ-295.

7-5-73:

---

## Page 3

C2036

THOMAS N. DOWNING, VA., CH

HENRY B. CONVALEZ, MEX.

SAMUELLA SEONETONIO

RICHANDSON PREYER, N.C.

BURT 4. TALCOTT, CALIF.

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO

STEWART B. MCKINNY, CONN.

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE ZURKE, CALIF.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

E.D. House of Representatives

3341 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

December 30, 1976

OROM

MAIL ROOM

RECEIVEDE

JAN 4

10

37 ПМ °77

RECEIVED 2

The Honorable Edward H. Levi

Department of Justice

10th & Constitution Avenue, N.W.

JAN 0 4 1978

Washington, D.C.

20530

Dear Mr. Levi:

O.LA.

Pursuant to the House Select Committee on Assassinations'

investigation into the circumstances surrounding the assas-

sination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.r

we hereby request ser

access to all information in the possession of the Depart- 144, 72661

ment of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

which pertain to the following:

1) The Revolutionary Action Movement (RAM) ,

146116212977

"for the period of January 1, 1967, to present;

2)

The Freedom Democratic Party,

reportedly based

In Missiopi, for thREEd of January 1,

1967, to present;

62-117290-38

3)

The Invaderspyreportedly a black power group

based in 1968 In Memphis, Tennessee, for the 46-1 72,101

period of January 1, 1967, to present.

nine files relating to these three organizations, as well

as a large number of other files in which there is some

reference to them.

files, and to each document within the adaitional Illes

where such reference is made.

2203

I will appreciate your prompt assistandeEPAR MoNIan!STICE R

the Select Committee with access to this material, and I

shall look orward to hearing trom you in regardo tg1s1977

matter.

R

O.R.O.M.

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AFFAIRS

84 JAN 1 7 1977

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764

Page 3

cto

1/13/27

D. A. Kal

FED. BU. OF INV.

---

## Page 4

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

OFFICIAL BUSINESS

USE ZIP

• JAN 3I

CODE

Mama lousing

The Honorable Edward H. Levi.

Department of Justice

10th & Constitution, N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20530

= 1?

'a3%

-NW-55455-Doefd+32989764Dage-4-

---

## Page 5

_ 2 -

With best wishes and kind regards, I am

Sincerely,

Tah, A. Spage

Richard A. Sprague

Chief Counsel and Director

CONGRESSPGODAL LIAISON UNIt,

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION MOVISED

5/5/77 thAT No RESpaNSE to

fais REQUEST IS NECESSARY i

REQUEST IS NOT CONSIDELED OFFICiAL

SINCE If WAS SUBMITTEO UNDER SigNATURE

ON COUNSEL SPRAGUE ANO NOT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN.

COMPLETED PORTIONS OF REQUEST - ENURDERS AND MEDP-

WiLL BE RETANEO In CONgRESSIOnA iNQUeRy WAIt.

RAM WILL MOT BE PROLESSED withour.

FURTHER

HSCA ACTION.

Jia 515/17

oW 55155

DOCId: 32989764

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Assistant Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Adams - Enc.

1 - Mr. Gallagher - Enc.

1 - Mr. Leavitt - Enc.

November 18, 197*

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2 - Mr. Daly - Enc.

FEDERAT GOVERAMENI

HOUSE SELECT CO MITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NZSH8-1912

Reference is made to Chairman Thonas N. Downing's

request contained in his letter of November 2, 1976, addressed

to the Attorney General, requesting certain infornation con-

cerning the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy and

DI. Martin Luther Ring, Jx.

You referred the aforementioned reguest to the FBI

for comments concerning access to FBI files.

In this regard,

I believe that this Committee should be granted the same

degree of access for appropriately cleared personnel as was

granted to the House Select Committee on Intelligence

Activities (HSC) and the Senate Select Committee on

Intelligence Activities (SSC) •

I am taking the liberty of

enclosing a copy of the agreement between the Attorney General

and Chairman Frank Church of the SSC concerning access to FBI

files.

I wish to advise you in connection with the FBI's

investigation into the assassination of DI. King that the

news media has reported James Earl Ray who was convicted in

that matter has petitioned the Supreme Court to review his

case.

As to the other information requested in Chairman

Downing's letter, the FBI does not have summaries of its

investigations into these two matters nor does it have an

itemization of material contained in IBI files pertaining

these investigations which might not have been

disseminated

to "any other individual

62-117

Assoc. Dir..

1977

DESN'T

Dop. AD Adm.-

It would.ar

ear advantageous to meet fitiArepre-

Dop. Aviv-sentatives of the Committee so that they might generat

Asst. Diro:

Adm. Sorv.-

informed as to the FBI's filing system and in a general

fashion,

Exi. Alfois-corterning the FBI's investigations into the two assassinations

Fin& Pes identified in their letter 'so that the Committee might better

Ident. -

understand what information is in the possession of the

Inspection

Intoll. -

Laboratory

-ENCLOSURE

IN BE HAND DELED BY

Loboo Enclosure

OFFICE OF CONGRESCIGNAL AFFÃIS

(LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION)

SEE NOTE PAGE

2

Roc. Mgnt._

(9)

AD

Training _

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Telophone Rm. -

Disector Soc'y _ If MAIL ROOM,I

TELETYPE UNHEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

55155

Dod 1a 821

8280-164-

2197 4 37 RATE

2884 BY SPOR

Cin

FBI/DOJ

21130

---

## Page 7

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

442415852

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2

84 BYS

84

NW 55139-10°Dd

OPTIONAL FOL

. 10

MAY 1962 EDM

GSA IPMR F

7FR) 101-11.8

STATES,G

ERNMENT

:: Memorandum

: Mr. Gallaghe

Dong.

DATE:

11/8/76

J.

Pée Iman

]

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS

1

- Mr. Gallagher

• Mx. Ingram

Mr. Peelman

-

Mx. Helterhoesn

Mr. Cooke

- Mr. Burton

- MI. Deegan

- 1D dm dm

Dep. AD Inv. -

* Asst. Dira:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Per

Gen. Inv.

Ident..

Inspection

Intoll..

Laboratory.

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval._

Rec. Mgnt.-

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Telophone Rm.

PURPOSE:

To furnish comments by the Civil Rights Section,

General Investigative Division (GID), as to Committee

access to the Civil Rights investigation into the assassination

of Dr. Martin Luther Kingr. JI. (Bufile 44-38861) •

SYNOPSIS: /House Select Committee on Assassinations. has

requested. access to FBI files and Department of

Justice files concerning the assassinations of President

John

F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, JI. (copy of

Committee letter attached) • Legal Counsel Division has

requested comments from GID re Committee access.

(Copy of

Legal Counsel memorandum attached.)

Dr. King was assassinated

on 4/4/68 and the FBI conducted an immediate Civil Rights

investigation per the request of the Department.

Our

investigative results

were furnished to the Department and

based upon the authority from the Department, certain pertinent

investigative results were furnished to the

State of Tennessee

authorities. James Earl Ray pled guilty on 3/10/69 to the

murder of Dr. King before a state

• court in Tennessee and

presently is in local confinement.

Attorney General directed Assistant Attorneys General Pottinger

and Thornburghto review the

relating to Martin Luther

King and make a recommendation as to whether the assassination

case should be reopened.

In April, 1976, the Attorney General

requested the Department's Office of Professional Responsibility

(OPR) to complete the review of all records re Dr. King.

The Department's OPR still has this King matter under review.

Any decision relative to Committee access to the Civil Rights

assassination investigation of DI. King rests within the

province of the Department.

The Department should also be

advised

I that in making

its decision it should also consider:

Enclosures

HNH: bam

F44-38861

(3)

181ba0m

ENCLOSURE

REC2 62-117/290-17

ST-113

CONTINUED - OVERE DEC & 1976

DEC

LEGAL COUNSEL ADDENDUM PAGE SEVEN

5, 7976

1976

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

đ. 32989764

Page

7

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 8

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE: HOUSE-SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(1) What authority the Committee has to request access;

(2) What effect access would have on the local prosecution

and the rights of Ray who has his case under appeal to the

U. S. Supreme Court.

("Washington Post" article re his

appeal attached); (3) What effect Committee access would

have on privacy of those individuals who furnished information

in a criminal case; (4) If Department grants access, it should

oppose disclösing identity of informants or persons who

furnished information on a confidential basis and (5) What

action it intends

to take to obtain third-agency clearance

including foreign Governments; (6) The decision to furnish an

itemization of material turned over to another agency remains

within the province of the Department; (7)

The FBI has not

prepared any summary of the King assassination investigative

results other than that contained on the summary (synopsis)

Of

each report and a reports containing a prosecutive

with

The Civil Rights Section recommends no meeting

staff members until Department makes its decision.

RECOMMENDATION: That these comments of the Civil Rights

Section be furnished to the Criminal Section of

the GID (attention Mr. Len S. Burton), which section is

coordinating the overall GID response to this matter.

APPROVED:

Adm, Serv....

Legal Coun...

Ext. Affairs...

Plan. & Insp..

Director

Fin. & Pers...

Rec. Migr.....

thing

Gen. Inv......

S. & T. Serv...

-....

Dep. AD Admi.....

Ident..

Spec. Inv

Dep. AD Inv....

Intell.

Training.

DETAILS: The House Select Committee on Assassinations has

requested access to FBI files and Department of

Justice files concerning the assassinations of President John F.

Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. (Committee letter

attached) •

The Legal Counsel Division has requested

comments

of the GID as to the Committee's access to these

files.

(copy of Legal Counsel memorandum attached) .

The Civil Rights assassination investigation of Dr.

King is

located in Bufile 44-38861.

2

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Memorandum to. Mr. Gallagher

RE :

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

DI. King was shot to death by an assassin's bullet

while standing on a balcony of a motel in Memphis, Tennessee,

on 4/4/68. The U. S. Department of Justice requested the

FBI to conduct an

immediate Civil Rights investigation into

catate cavil

this assassination which was confirmed in writing by a letter

from Stephen J. Pollak, Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights

Division, to the Director of the FBI, which reguested a full

investigation into a possible violation of Title 18, U.S.

Code, Section 241, (possible conspiracy to violate the Civil

Rights of DI. King, namely, the right to travel interstate.)

The FBI conducted an extensive, exhaustive investigation

into this assassination and James Earl Ray was

identified

as the

assassin.

Our investigative results were furnished to the

Civil Rights Division, U. S. Department of Justice, and based

upon the authority of the Department, certain pertinent investigative

results were furnished to the appropriate local authorities in

the State of Tennessee. On 3/10/69,

in state court, Memphis,

Tennessee, Ray entered

a plea of guilty to charges of the

murder of

King and received a 99-year sentence. Ray is presently

in local confinement.

By letter dated 12/4/75, the Attorney General of the

United States advised that on 11/24/75, he directed Assistant

Attorneys General J. Stanley Pottinger

and Richard L. Thornburgh

to review the files relating to Martin Luther King at once in

the light of recent testimony, and make a recommendation as to

whether the assassination case should be reopened.

The

Department had complete access to the Civil Rights assassination

investigative file during its review.

On 4/29/76, the Attorney General of the United States

issued the following

news release:

"I have directed the Office of Professional Responsibility,

in the Department of Justice concerning the Reverend Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr.

The Civil Rights Division, under the

personal direction

of Assistant Attorney General J. Stanley

Pottinger, completed on April 9 a five-month preliminary review

3

NN 55155 DooId: 32989764

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Memorandum to. Mr. Gallagher

RE: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

oI files at FBI headquarters. As a result of this

preliminary

review, the Civil Rights Division has

recommended that the review be carried forward to completion

with an additional examination of records at FBI

headquarters and field offices.

It is believed that more

than 200,000 documents may be involved.

On the basis of this preliminary review, Assistant

Attorney General Pottinger stated that his tentative

conclusions were (1) there was no basis to believe that

the FBI in any way caused the death of Dr. King, (2) no

evidence was discovered that the FBI investigation of

the

assassination of Di. King was not thorough and honest,

and (3) instances were found indicating that the FBI under-

took a systematic program of harassment of Dr.. King in

order to discredit him and harm both him and the movement

he led.

In ordering on April 26 the complete review by

Mr. Shaheen, I directed that the investigation be completed

forthwith and that answers to four specific questions be

furnished to me

and FBI Director Clarance M. Kelley on the

basis of the review of all documents:

-- Whether the FBI investigation of Dr. King's

assassination was thorough and honest;

-- Whether there is any evidence that the FBI was

involved in the assassination of DI. King;

- Whether, in light of the first two matters, there

is any new evidence which has come to the attention of the

Department concerning the assassination of Dr. King;

- Whether the nature of the relationship between the

Bureau and Dr. King calls for criminal prosecutions, disciplinary

proceedings, or other appropriate action.

Mr. Pottinger pointed out that the Civil Rights

Division has been continuously investigating allegations

concerning the assassination of Dr. King as these allegations

come to the attention

Of the Department."

4

NW 55155 DocId 32989764 Page 10

---

## Page 11

......

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

The Department's OPR still has this matter under

review and has had complete access to the Civil Rights

assassination investigative files both at FBIHQ and in all

of our field offices.

The decision as to what access, if any, the Committee

has to the FBI file on the Civil Rights assassination of

Dr. King, therefore, rests entirely within the province of the

Department of Justice.

The Department should also be advised that in

making its decision relative to Committee access, it should also

consider the following:

(1) The Department should determine what authority

the Committee has to request access to the Civil Rights assassination

investigation of DI. King.

For example, is it requesting such

access for a specific legislative interest?

If not, such access

by the Committee could be construed by some as an effort by

a legislative body to act as a "grand jury" even though James

Earl Ray has already been processed through the court system;

(2)

The Department should determine what effect

any such Committee access to our investigative results in the

Civil Rights assassination investigation of Dr. King

(including

the physical evidence, FBI Laboratory and Identification reports,

etc.) would have on the local prosecution of James Earl Ray

and

upon the rights of Mr. Ray, who has recently appealed his

conviction to the U. S. Supreme Court. ("Washington Post"

article re appeal attached). If necessary! the Department

should resolve this with the State of Tennessee authorities

and with Mr. Ray's counsel;

(3) The Department should determine what effect

any such access would have on the privacy of those individual.

who furnished information to the FBI in a criminal case the

a O 1, 8.

FBI was investigating (Title 18i,U. S: Code, Section 241);

(4) If the Department grants access to the Committee,

it should oppose disclosing the identity of any' informants

or persons who furnished information on an expressed confidential

basis;

5

NW 55155

Docid: 32989764 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE :

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(5) If the Department grants Committee access,

the Department should advise what

action it intends to take

to obtain third-agency clearance including obtaining authority

from those foreign Governments which furnished investigative

a passport) and London (where Mr. Ray was

captured) ;

(6) The decision to furnish an itemization of

any material which has

been turned over to any other individual

or agency remains within the province of the Department.

instance, certain material was turned over to the State of

Tennessee

authorities based upon the authority of the

Department and the Department would have to make a decision

as to whether this itemization could be made available to the

Committee.

Other material from our files has also been made

available pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act;

(7)

The FBI has not prepared any summary of the Civil

Rights investigation of the assassination of Dr. King. Neither

the Civil Rights Division nor the OPR requested such a summary

during its review.

Each investigative report contains a summary

(synopsis) page and a prosecutive simmary report and a non-prosecutive

summary report were also previously prepared. There is, of course,

extensive public source information available concerning this

matter;

(8)

Inasmuch as any Committee access to the Civil

Rights investigation of the assassination of Dr. King remains

within the province of the Department, the Civil Rights Section

of the GID recommends that no meeting be held re the Civil Rights

investigation with staff members of the Committee until the Department

These comments of the Civil Rights Section of the

GID are in no way intended to be obstructive but it is felt

the Department must resolve these issues before it can make a

determination as to whether or not it will grant Committee

access to the Civil Rights investigative file on the

assassination of Dr. King.

6

NW 55155 DooId: 32989764 Page 12

---

## Page 13

J.

S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher Memo

Re:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

ADDENDUM: LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION PVD:mCz 11/12/76

As to the questions raised by the General Investigative

Division in this memorandum, Legal Counsel Division makes the

following observations:

The authority of a committee of Congress to make a

request for information is derived from the authority to seek

information to fulfill a legislative function, and in this

instance this particular committee is acting pursuant to a

resolution of the House of Representatives.

The more critical

question rather. than the authority for the request is the kind

of information the committee will receive, and it is for this

reason that the standards set forth in the agreement between

the Attorney General"

and the Chairman of the Senate Select

Committee on Intelligence, Frank Church, are being used to

govern this question.

The possibility, of course, could be raised that

the Select Committee on Assassinations is not a properly

constituted Committee in that it has been created to serve

a legislative function, but it is not believed advisable nor •

desirable to raise this particular issue since there would

appear to be little hope of obtaining support in the Department

or elsewhere in such a challenge.

Concerning the invasion of privacy "of those indivi-

duals who furnished information in a criminal case."

It should

be noted the Privacy Act does not preclude or

prohibit respond-

ing to a legitimate request of a committee of Congress. The

question of protecting identity of informants, persons

furnished information on a confidential basis, raised in this

memorandum is addressed in the aforementioned

agreement between

Senator Church and the Attorney General which is

governing the

furnishing of information to this committee and provides for

the protection of the identities of such people.

The third

agency rule providing for clearance prior to the furnishing

of information to the Committee will also be followed.

CONTINUED - OVER

WW 55155

DocId: 32989764

Page

13

---

## Page 14

J. S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher Memo

Re:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

The problem presented by the fact James Earl Ray

was convicted of the assassination .of Martin Luther King, JI.,

may be currently appealing his conviction is known to the

department, and Larry Callaghan, Deputy Assistant Attornes

General,. Office of Legislative Affairs, has indicated thi.

factor will not preclude committee access to the information

involved.

RECOMMENDATION:

...

prd

APPROVED:

- Adm. Serv..

Ext. Affalrs...

rector...

Fin. & Pers

Gen. Inv. C

Dep. AD Adm...

Ident..

Intell.

Legal Coun: a

Plan. & Insp....

Rec. Mgt....--sadd

S. & T. Serv.

'Spec. Inv....

Training...

NW 55155

Docid: 32989764

Page 14

---

## Page 15

ME00D7 3222218Z

RR HQ

DE ME

R 172218Z NOV 76

FM

MENP HIS

TO

DIRECTOR

CREMRECATIONS SEHION

NOV - 7*976

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm

Dep.., AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

(66-2197)

(ROUTINE)

Intell.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp._

Roc. Mgt.....

S. & T. Serv.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone

RM. in

Director's Sec'y-

EF TO

r.;:

ROUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.)

RE BUTEL SEPTEMBER 28, 1976!

RECENT ARTICLES APPEARING IN LOCAL PRESS INDICATE THAT THIS

COMMITTEE WILL SOON BE PREPARING TO HOLD MEETINGS AND THEREAFTER

WILL CONDUCI PUBLIC SESSIONS.

AN ARTICLE APPEARING IN THE NOVEMBER 17, 1

, ISSUE OF

THE "COMMERCIAL APPEAL," A DAILY NEWSPAPER AT MEMPHIS, STATES

THAI LAWYERS FOR THE HOUSE CÖMMITTEE INVESTIGATING THE MURDER

OF DR. KING CHARGED THAT DOCUMENIS IN EXHE CASE HAD BEEN

DESTROYED SINCE THE COMMITTEE WAS FORMERE 62-417290-10

MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES IN MEMPHIS CONTACTED THE STATE

ATTORNEY GENERAL, THE MAYOR'S OFFICE, THE CITY POLICE CHIEF§T Ti

# 245852

12/5115

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED.

DATE 2/8/84 BY 5088BT Ch

770526

Quitel to SAC, Meritio

HNH'

1124016

5 5 DEC

6 1976

-Tinto 729R9761

---

## Page 16

PAGE TWO

ME 66-2L97

OTHER POLICE OFFICIALS, AS WELL AS THIS OFFICE. DENIALS WERE

RECEIVED FROM ALL INDIVIDUALS CONTACTED THAT ANY DOCUMENTS

INVOLVING THE INVESTIGATION OF THE MURDER OF DR. KING HAD BEEN

DESTROYED.

IN VIEW OF THE FACT THAT THE KING ASSASSINATION OCCURRED

IN MEMPHIS, IT CAN REASONABLY BE ANTICIPATED THAI THE BULK OF .

• THE WORK BY THE HOUSE COMMITTEE STAFF MEMBERS WILL BE CONDUCTED

IN THIS LOCALE. FBIHQ IS REQUESTED TO ADVISE MEMPHIS WHETHER

THERE HAS BEEN ANY INDICATION THUS F R AS TO THE EXTENT TO WHICH

THE COMMITTEE WILL BE SEEKING TO QUESTION FBI PERSONNEL WHO

WERE ASSOCIATED WITH THE INVESTIGATION. SINCE THE BULK OF THE

INVESTIGATIVE WORK ON THIS CASE WAS DONE BY THE MEMPHIS FBI

OFFICE, IT IS APPARENT THAT WE WILL BE ASKED BY THE COMMITTEE

TO ADVISE THEM OF THE INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED AND POSSIBLY TO

TURN OVER PERTINENT FILES.

AS THE BUREAU IS AWARE, THE KING ASSASSINATION AND RELATED

FILES IN MEMPHIS TOTAL APPROXIMATELY 140 VOLUMES AND OVER

10, D0D SERIAL. ALL OF THE INDIVIDUALS WHO PLAYED A SIGNIFICANI

ROLEBIN THE FBI INVESTIGATION AT MEMPHIS HAVE SINCE RETIRED

Page 1E

---

## Page 17

PAGE THREE ME 66-2197

WITH THE EXCEPTION OF SA JOE C. HESTER WHO IS CURRENTLY

ASSIGNED TO MEMPHIS AS A FIELD SUPERVISOR AND WHO WAS THE CASE

AGENT ON THE ASSASSINATION INVESTIGATION.

IT IS SUGGESTED THAT CONSIDERATION BE GIVEN AT THIS TIME

TO THE LIKELIHOOD THAT THE HOUSE COMMITTEE IISELF OR ITS STAFF

MEMBERS WILL WANI TO BE GIVEN A THOROUGH BRIEFING OF THE SCOPE

OF THE FBI INVESTIGATION. IN VIEW OF THE MASSIVE NUMBER OF

SERIALS INVOLVED AND THE LENGTH OF TIME (EIGHT AND ONE- HALF YEARS)

SINCE THE INVESTIGATION WAS INITIATED, SA HESTER ADVISED THAI HE

WILL NEED APPROXIMATELY 3B DAYS FULL TIME TO REVIEW THIS MATTER IN

ORDER TO HAVE A CURRENT OVERALL KNOWLEDGE OF THE FBI INVESTI-

GATION. IF FBIHQ AGREES THAT WE SHOULD BEGIN PREPARING FOR

THIS EVENTUALITY, IT IS RECOMMENDED THAT SA HESTER BE RELIEVED

OF HIS SUPERVISORY RESPONSIBILITIES AND DEVOTE FULL TIME TO

INITIATING

• A THOROUGH REVIEW OF THIS INVESTIGATION SO THAT HE

CAN INTELLIGENILY RESPOND TO QUESTIONS FROM THE COMMITTEE.

BT.

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764 Page 17

---

## Page 18

TO

OFTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAX (41 CFR) 101-11.6

•.. UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Gallagherde

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Ext. Affairs _

DATE:

9/22/76

Fin. 1 C7

Ident.

Inspection

FROM

: J. S. Peelmant

1 - Mr. Held

- Mr. Adams

Intell. -

Laboratory =

§ SUBJECT:

MURKIN

HHH

- Mr. Gallagher

Legal Coun..

Mr. O'Connell

Plon. & Eval. —

Mr. Peelman

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spoc. Inv. ==

Mr. Helterhoff

Training =

Mr. Ingram

Telophone Rm. -

- Mr. Mintz

OHorse select CoMmittee oN AscARDiNAlIoNs

Director Secy.

- Mr. Aldhizer

tests

ball

PURPOSE: To advise that the Task Force Leader of the Office

of Professional Responsibility, U. S. Department of

Justice (USDJ), which office is presently reviewing the FBI

investigation of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., was advised on

9/22/76, of the location of information in Bufile 44-38861,

relative to the reported basis for a new House investigation

of the assassination of Dr. King.

The Civil Rights Division

(CRD), USDJ, was also advised on 9/22/76 of our previous

investigative results.

62-117290-31

SYNOPSIS: This case pertains to the assassination of

DI. Martin Luther King, JI., on 4/4/68.

James Earl

Ray pled guilty to this murder and presently is in local

confinement.

As set forth in a J. iS, Peelman to Mr. Gallagher

memorandum, dated 9/21/76, the I. S. House Of Representatives

has created a select committee to investigate the assassinations

committee do i:

of President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, "JE

Reported basis for House investigation of Dr. King deals with

the ordered removal of Edward Redditt, Memphis Police Officer,

from King security on day of his death due to the reported

attributed to Memphis Fire and Police Director Frank. Holloman

(retired Special Agent of FBI).

Reported basis also deals

with "sudden transfer" of two black firemen, including Floyd

Newsum, from fire house across the street from motel where

King was shot.

These allegations re removal of Redditt and

the firemen previously investigated by FBI in 1968 and

1969 and the pertinent results were furnished to the USDJ

On 9/22/76, Mr. Fred G. Folsom, JI., Task

Force Leader of the

44-38861

ST 106

# D4.5,852

REC 12

#4-58867-6134

• CONTINUED - OVER

E3 SEP 29 1976

84

25

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 55155-DocId: 32

989

Page

18

FBiXbOJ

---

## Page 19

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE :

MURKIN

Office of Professional Responsibility, USDJ, which office is

presently reviewing the FBI investigation of DI. King, was

advised of the location of this information in Bufile

44-38861. Mr. Folsom advised the Task Force was already

aware of these allegations and had already looked into

this matter.

The CRD, USDJ, was also advised on 9/22/76 of

our previous investigative results.

RECOMMENDATION: For information.

APPROVED:

Ext. Affairs..

Assoc. Dir..

Fin. & Pers...

Dep. AD Adm

DeD. AD Invi

iper Ident...

Asst. Dir.:

Inspection

Adm. Serv...

Intel..

Laboratory..

Legal Coun...

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt.

Spec. Inv..

Training

DETAILS: This case pertains to the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., on 4/4/68. James Earl Ray pled

guilty to this murder and presently is in local confinement.

As set forth in a J. S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher

memorandum, dated 9/21/76, an article in the "Washington Post,"

9/18/76, reported that the U. S. House of Representatives has

created a select committee to investigate the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

reported basis for the House investigation of Dr. King deals

with the ordered removal of Edward Redditt, a Memphis Police

Officer, from the King security on the day of his death due to

a reported attempt on the life of the Redditt family.

The order for his removal was attributed to the Memphis Fire

and Police Director, Frank Holloman (retired Special Agent of

the FBI).

The reported basis also deals with the "sudden

transfer" of two black firemen, including Floyd Newsum, from a

fire house across the street from the motel where King was shot.

The allegations re the removal of Redditt and the

firemen were previously investigated by the FBI in 1968 and

1969 and the pertinent results were furnished to the Department.

2

DETAILS - OVER

NW 55155

DocId: 32989764 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

MURKIN

You were advised in the J. S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher

memorandum dated 9/21/76, that the CRD would be advised

of our previous investigative results and that the Task

Force Leader of the Office of Professional Responsibility,

USDJ, which is presently reviewing

the FBI investigation

of DI. King, would be advised

I of the location of this

information in Bufile 44-38861, the FBI civil rights

assassination file.

The Task Force has complete access

to 44-38861 in connection with its review.

On 9/22/76, Mr. Fred G. Folsom,

Task Force

Leader, was referred to serials 5197, 5387, 5531,. 5533,

and 5557, of 44-38861, which reflect the information and

our investigative results re the Redditt - firemen

allegations.

Mr. Folsom advised the Task Force was already

aware of these allegations and had already looked into

this matter.

The CRD, USDJ, was also advised on 9/22/76,

of our previous investigative results.

3

NA 55155

DocId: 32989764

Page 20

---

## Page 21

CLEAR

FM DIRECTOR

TO MEMPHIS

TELETYPE

1 - Mr.

G. Deegan -

1 - MI.

J. S. Peelman

ROUTINE

1 - Mr. P. V. Daly

9/27/76

I - Mr. J. D. Maurice

ST 106.

CLEARL

67=

117290

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.)

itt,

REURTEL 9/22/16, ABÓVE CAPTION.

NO CONTACT HAS AS YET BEEN MADE WITH FBIHQ BY THE

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE LOOKING INTO THE KING ASSASSINATION. -

ANY REQUESTS OR PERTINENT INFORMATION RECEIVED BY FBIQ

INVOLVING THE MEMPHIS OFFICE, WILL BE PROMPTLY FURNISHED TO

YOU.

82 trotones

Assoc. Dir..

Dop. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Ext. Affoirs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv..

Ident. -

Inspection

Intoll. _

Laboratory

Logal Coun

Plan. & Eval. _

Rec. Mgnt. -e

Spec. Inv.

Director Soc'y -

SHOULD ANY REQUESTS BE RECEIVED BY MEMPHIS FROM CAPTIONED

COMMITTEE, SUCH REQUESTS SHOULD BE RESPONDED TO BY INFORMINE

THE COMMITTEE TO CONTACT THE OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAI APFAIRS,

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION, FBIHQ. YOU SHOULD ALSO PROMPTLY

NOTIFY FBIHQ OF ANY SUCH REQUESTS.

BT

UNRECORDED COP:

JDM: lek IcK

(6)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

1214185

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

for mines

911326

TEL

31"

IrA

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT I

wW

55155

DocId: 32989764

Page 21

FBI/DOS

---

## Page 22

PAGE TWO

NOTE:

Memphis teletype 9/22/76 advised of news media.

stories indicating the recently created House Select

Committee to investigate the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther King, jr. intends to hold hearings immediately

after the forthcoming presidential election.

Memphis

anticipates hearings will be held by the committee in

• Memphis and committee staff members will contact the

lemphis office. Memphis requested to be turnished specifi

nstructions as to what action should be taken in the even

FBI personnel are subpoenaed, attempts aré made to review

FBI files or efforts are made to interview FBI personnel.

Above response coordinated with Unit Chief Paul V. Daly,

Office of Congressional Affairs.

APPROVED:

Ascoc. Dir..

Da3. 1D lav..

fissi. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv.

Ext. Affalis.

Fis a For

later.

Laboratory...p

Legal G^un..

Plea. si Eval...

rigot.

Sir, lais.n

TrainE...

lxi,55155 DocId:32989764 Page 22

---

## Page 23

FEDERAL BULLAS OF AGES MANION

IRS SCHTEN

SEP 8 & 1276

TELETYPE

Assoc.

Dir:"

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-InV

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Astrira

FiA. & Pers.

Gen. mat

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

Rec. Mgmt..

Spec. Inv. -

Training --

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

TOMIICK

W

ME 0201 268 1152 .

RR H&

DE ME

R 222115Z SEP 76

FM MEMPHIS (66-2197) (P)

TO DIRECI OR ROUTINE

BT

CLEAR

XIN: CIVIL

RI CATS DIVISION

HOUSE

SELECT

COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS /DR. NARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.)

THE BUREAU WILL NOTE THAT MEMPHIS HAS OPENED A NEW CASE,

CAPTIONED AS ABOVE, IN WHICH TO HANDLE ALL CORRESPONDENCE

REGARDING THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

STORIES APPEARING IN THE NEWS MEDIA INDICATE THIS

•COMMITTEE INTENDS IO HOLD HEARINGS IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE

PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION IN NOVEMBER, 1,976. IT IS ANTICIPATED

HEARINGS WILL BE HELD BY THE CO

FITTEE AT MEMPHIS. SINCE IT

WILL

BE EXPECTED THAT STAFF

MEUBER.

CONTACT THE MEMPHIS OFICE

REC-27

ECT THEN QUITE 17790-

FOR INFO RE

OUR INVESTIGAT I ON FA

THE KING MURDER,

IT IS REQUESTED, THÄT THE BUREAU FURNISH SEP 29 €

7245852

donachira 124188

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/884 BY SP8 BTO/CL

2/1066

6-950

UNRECORDED CORX ELLED

R1D-76t1,21

' besting contin. 21738

NW 55155

Docid: 32989764

Page

23

---

## Page 24

PAGE TWO

ME 66-2197

MEMPHIS OFFICE WITH SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS AS TO WHAT ACTION

TO BE TAKEN IN THE EVENT FBI PERSONNEL ARE SUBPOENAED, IN THE

EVENT ATTEMPTS ARE MADE TO REVIEW FBI FILES, IN THE EVENI

EFFORTS ARE MADE TO INTERVIEW FBI PERSONNEL, OR OTHERWISE

ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN INFO AVAILABLE IO THE MEMPHIS OFFICE,

THIS CASE WAS DIRECIED DURING THE FIRST FEW DAYS BY NOW

RETIRED INSPECTOR JOE SULLIVAN. ON THE DAY RAY'S CAR WAS LO

CATED AT ATLANTA, INSPECI OR SULLIVAN LEFT MEMPHIS AND WENT

TO THE ATLANTA OFFICE WHERE HE REMAINED UNTIL HE WAS GIVEN

A NEW ASSIGNMENT, THE SAC AT MEMPHIS, ROBERT JENSEN, NOW

RETIRED BUT STILL RESIDING IN MEMPHIS, TOOK CHARGE OF THE

INVESTIGATION AT MEMPHIS. THE CASE AGENT, SA JOE C. HESTER, .

IS STILL IN THE MEMPHIS OFFICE, AND MAY WELL BE CONSIDERED BY

THE COMMITTEE FOR A SUPBOENA.

DUE TO THE PASSAGE OF EIGHT YEARS SINCE THE KING MURDER

AND DUE TO IHE MANY DIFFERENT PHASES OF THE INVESTIGATION

IT WOULD BE NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE FOR ANY ONE INDIVIDUAL TO

TESTIFY KNOWLEDGEABLY RE THIS INVESTIGATION. IN THE EVENT

THE DEPARIMENI INSTRUCTS THAT FBI PERSONNEL ARE TO SUBMIT

RIM

walt bald

TonguE: 24

---

## Page 25

.".?

PAGE THREE

ME 66-2197

TO INTERVIEWS BY MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE STAFF, IT IS

SUGGESTED THAT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL SHOULD REQUIRE THE

SUBMISSION OF WRITTEN QUESTIONS WELL ENOUGH IN ADVANCE TO

ALLOW IIME FOR RESEARCH BEFORE ANY ATTEMPT IS MADE TO ANSWER

QUEST I ONS.

IN THE EVENT THE MEMPHIS OFFICE IS CONTACTED BY MEMBERS

OF THE COMMITTEE OR BY STAFF MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE, NO

INFO WELL SE FURNISHED TO THEM WITHOUT THE SPECIFIO PERMISSIGEN

OF THE BUREAU AND THE CONTACIING INDIVIDUAL WILL BE SO

ADVISED.

BT

N7 07030

100 00400a4

---

## Page 26

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

MAY 1962 KOTION

OSA EPME 111 CER 101-11.6

• UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

MI •

Gallagher

DATE:

9/21/7.6

Assoc. Dir.

Jep. AD

sst. Dir

dm. Serv

Ext. Affairs,

Fin. & Per

- Mr. Held

J.

s. Peelmany

1

- Mr. Adams

#245852

- Mr. Gallagher

MURKIN

- Mr. O'Connell

- Mr. Peelman

ake] - Mr. Helterhoff

Ofouse select committee en

- Mr. Ingram

1

- Mr. Mintz

Inspection.

Intell. -

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval. -

Rec. Mgnt.-

Spec. Inv. _

Training.

Telophono Rm. -

Diractor Soc'y -

ASSASSINAFIONS

Alahizer

PURPOSE:

the assassinations: of President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin

To advise that the is. House of Representatives liland

has created a select committee to investigate

Luther King, Jr:

"The reported basis for the House

investigation re Dr. King was previously investigated by the

FBI in 1968 and 1969 and the, results were furnished to the

U. S. Department of Justice.

SYNOPSIS: This case pertains to the assassination of Dr.

Martin Luther King, Jr., on 4/4/68.

James Earl

Ray pled guilty to this murder and presently is in local

confinement.

As set forth in a J. S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher

memorandum dated 2/18/76, in February, 1976, "Newsday," a

Long Island, New York, newspaper reported that Ed Redditt,

the

Memphis, Tennessee, City Detective guarding King was pulled from

his post hours before King was assassinated and told the U. S.

Secret Service had learned

of a

"contract" on his life. Redditt

who protested his removal, reportedly had a "contingency plan"

to apprehend any King assassin.

on 2/17/76, this article

furnished to the Civil Rights Division (CRD), U. S. Department

of Justice (USDJ), which, at that time, had the FBI investigation

of Dr. King under

review, stating FBI was conducting no

investigation re this article unless specifically requested by the

CRD. Article in "Washington Post," 9/18/76 (copy attached)

reported U.S.

House of Representatives created a select

committee to investigate assassinations of President Kennedy

and DI. King. Reported basis for House investigation re

to Memphis Fire

No dice Director Tilt HoLloman

Enclosure

62-117-290-

23 SEP 29 1976

HNH: bam (10)

CONTINUED - OVER

44-38861

SHE-ST TIG

8*

1976

TSY9X

N 35 8 1 1S Saving Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 27

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

MURKIN

Special Agent of FBI). Reported basis also deals with

"sudden transfer" of two black fireman, including Floyd Newsum,

from firehouse across the street from motel where King was

The FBI civil rights assassination investigative file

(Bufile 44-38861) reflects the CRD furnished a memorandum dated

9/23/68 containing results of interviews which J. Harold Flannery,

Deputy Section Chief, Central Section, CRD, had

with William

Sartor, a contract writer for Time, Inc., who as a reporter hac

been inquiring into possible conspiracy to assassinate Dr. King:

Sartor furnished various information, including the "Cosa Nostra"

• "Mafia" could be involved, Redditt was moved from

assignment t fire station, and two Negro firemen were moved

from the station a day or two before the shooting.

CRD requested

FBI to "follow out" all of Sartor's indicated leads. FBI

investigation in 1968 reflects that upon instructions from

an

Inspector of the Memphis Police Department (PD), Detective

Redditt removed from guard duty due to information received from

Senator McClellan's Senate. Investigating Committee that a Negro

detective was to be killed.

Inspector believed this another threat

against Redditt, who had been previously threatened, and removed

Redditt for own protection.

Memphis PD determined Negro fireman

Floyd E. Newsum active in demonstrations by striking sanitation

workers and closely associated with black militants.

transferred to insure safety for Officers Redditt and

another officer

and to insure no information leaked to black militants.

Änother

Negro fireman routinely reassigned due to manpower shortage.

(LHM) dated 11/21/68, disseminated to CRD 11/27/68, and by request

, also furnished to Office of Professional Reponsibility Task Force,

reviewing the FBI investigation of DI. King.

Bufile 44-38861 also reflects on 1/30/69 Rev.

Ralph

Abernathy, President of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference,

advised that Rev. James Lawson told him two Negro firemen, assigned

to fire station across from King motel, were moved leaving. fire

station unmanned, and a Negro policeman was moved from beat of

King's motel. (IHM reporting this furnished CRD 2/3/69) • FBI

investigation at Memphis PD reflected it had no officers

assigned

to "walking beat" on day King killed.

Rev. Lawson interviewed by

FBI on 2/11/69 and stated Floyd E. Newsum and another Negro

2

CONTINUED - OVER

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764

• 4.

Page 27

---

## Page 28

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

MURKIN

fireman were transferred, and Detective Redditt was

removed from fire station, and these occurrences may

have some significance.

This new select House Committee,

to date,

has made no requests of the FBI.

RECOMMENDATION: For information. The CRD is being advised,

and the Task Force Leader of the Office of

Professional Responsibility, U. S. Department of Justice,

presently reviewing the FBI investigation of Dr. King will

be advised of the location of this information in Bufile

44-38861.

Issoc. Dir..

Ext. Affalrs….

Laboratory...

Fin. & Pers.

Glen. here/s an 6 Eva....

Ident..

Rec. Mgmt.

Inspection.

Spec. Inv.

Intêl.:

Training..

DETAILS:

This case pertains to the assassination of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., on 4/4/68.

James Earl Ray pled guilty

to this murder and presently' is in local confinement in

Tennessee.

As set forth in a J. S. Peelman to Mr. Gallagher

memorandum dated: 2/18/76, a United Press International Wire

Service article dated 2/14/76, stated the following:

"Garden City, N.Y. (UPI) -- The top law enforcement

official in Memphis, Tennessee, removed a detective

assigned to protect Martin Luther King hours before

the Civil Rights leader was assassinated in 1968,

Newsday reported Saturday:

In a copyrighted story in its Sunday edition,

the Long Island newspaper said Ed, Redditt, the city

detective guarding King, was pulled from his post

and told there was a plot to kill him.

The Memphis Public Safety Director did not

replace Redditt after taking, him off the assignment

and allowed the detective to return to work three

days after King was shot to death at the Lorraine

Motel Newsday säid.

It also said

Redditt 'had prepared a contingency

plan to enable the pölice department to apprehend

an

assassin should an attempt be made on King's life.'

'After Redditt was removed from duty, he was

told

at a meeting in police headquarters that the u.s.

3

DETAILS - OVER

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

MURKIN

Secret Service had learned of a 'contract' on his life,"

Newsday said.

'Redditt protested, saying he wanted to return

to his post, but the city's then Public Safety

Director, Frank Holloman, insisted on the officer':

removal,

'Enroute home with his police guard, Redditt

heard

over the radio that king had been shot by ar

assassin,' the story said.

'Three days later, the round-the-clock guard

watching Redditt was removed and he was allowed

to return to work.

The police department never

offered any further explanation of the 'contract'

on his life,' Newsday said.

The story also said Holloman acknowledged

the report of a threat on Redditt's life, but refused

to say who had made the threat.

"Redditt's assassination contingency plan,

according to sources, called for the entire

four-block area around King's Hotel to be

sealed off by patrol cars,' the article said."

On 2/17/76, this article was furnished to the CRD

USDJ, which at that time had the FBI investigation of Dr. King

under review, stating the FBI was conducting no investigation re

this article unless specifically requested by the CRD.

On 9/8/76, an article appeared in the "Washington Post,"

(copy attached), reporting that the U. S. House of Representatives

created a select committee to investigate the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

The reported basis for the House investigation re Dr. King

deals with the ordered removal of Edward Redditt from King's

security on the day of his death due to a reported attempt on

the life of Redditt's family.

The order for his removal was

attributed to Memphis Fire and Police Director Frank Holloman

(retired Special Agent of the FBI).

The reported basis also

deals with the "sudden transfer" of two black firemen, including

Floyd Newsum, from the fire house across the street from the

motel where

King

• was shot.

4

DETAILS - OVER

55155 DocId: 32989764 Page

: 29

---

## Page 30

..

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE :

MURKIN

The FBI civil rights assassination investigative

file (Bufile: 44-38861) reflects the CRD furnished a

memorandum dated 9/23/68 (serial 5197) containing results

of interviews which J. Harold Flannery, Deputy Section

Chief, Central Section, CRD, had with William Sartor, a

contract writer for Time, Inc., who as a reporter had been

inquiring into a possible conspiracy to assassinate Dr. King.

Sartor furnished various information, including that the

"Cosa Nostra" or "Mafia" could be involved. Departmental

Attorney Flannery also reported that Sartor furnished him with

the following two allegations:

"An unidentified Negro policeman was moved

from his assignment at the Fire Station (and Police

Tactical Unit Station) at about 5:00 p.m. on the day

of the assassination.

According

• to Sartor, the

Dispatcher told the policeman to move two or three times

during the afternoon, but he did not do so until

explicitly advised to that effect by a superior. In

August., Sartor identified the policeman as E. E.

Redditt and said that Redditt had broken off

an inter-

view with sartor after starting, to discuss his move

from the station."

2.

"Two Negro firemen were moved from the .

station a day or two before the shooting.

One of them

has reportedly told friends that, two or three days

before Dr. King was shot, a telescope or binoculars

were set up on a tripod in the fire station and focused on

the Lorraine Motel balcony. In August, Sartor said

that one firemen left the Department or was suspended

shortly after the shooting, and that he has been unable

to locate either of them.

one yant have

The CRD requested the FBI to "follow out" all of Sartor's

indicated leads.

BY LHM, the Memphis Office of the FBI reported the

results of the investigation re the above two items as

set forth below (serial 5387) :

5

CONTINUED - OVER

NW. 55155.

DocId: 32989764 Page 30

---

## Page 31

...

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

MURKIN

"In this regard, Inspector G. P. Tines, Intelligence

Unit, Memphis Police Department, advised on 11/18/68, that

on 4/3/68 he assigned Detective E. E. Redditt and Patrolman

W. B. Richmond, Negro officers, both of whom are assigned to

the Inspection Division of the

Memphis Police Department, to

a security detail at the Memphis Fire Station, Engine House #2,

located at Butler and Main Streets.

one block from the Lorraine Motel.

assignment was to observe the activities of the "Invaders,"

oberve the activ.:

This location is approximately

The purpose of this

local Black Power group at Memphis. A number of the "Invaders"

were rooming at the Lorraine Motel

at this time. These two

officers were equipped with binoculars and were stationed in a

room at the rear of the fire station with a view that included

the room later occupied by the Reverend Martin Luther King, JI.

In connection with this assignment, and prior to

the time Officers Redditt and Richmond physically proceeded

to this assigned location, it was determined by the Intelligence

Unit of the Memphis Police Department that a Negro fireman

stationed at the Fire Station and named Floyd E. Newsum had

taken an active part in demonstrations by the striking sanita-

tion workers in February and March, 1968, and had been closely

associated with black militants connected with the strike.

order to insure security for Officers Redditt and Richmond,

and to insure that no information regarding the Memphis Police

Department Intelligence Unit's efforts to keep abreast of the

activities of the "Invaders" was leaked to the black militants

in Memphis, the Chief of the Memphis Fire Department was

requested to temporarily transfer Fireman Newsum to another

fire station. This was done on 4/3/68.

In addition, on 4/4/68, Negro Fireman Norvell E. Wallace

was routinely assigned from Fire Station #2 to Fire Station #31,

due to a manpower shortage at Fire station #31:

on 11/18/68, Fire Chief Hamilton advised that by

letter dated 5/18/68, Fireman Newsum resigned from the Memphis

Fire Department after thirteen years of service, giving as

his reason for leaving "Personal Reasons." Chief Hamilton

advised it is his understanding that Newsum has become an

active worker with the NAACP at Memphis subsequent to his

resignation from the Memphis Fire Department.

6

DETAILS - OVER

NW 55155 DocId: 32989764 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Memorandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE: MURKIN

At approximately 4:15 p.m. on 4/4/68, Lt. E. H. Arkin

of the Intelligence Unit of the Memphis Police Department, on

instructions from Inspector Tines, proceeded to Fire Engine

House #2 and removed Detective Redditt from this station,

leaving Officer Richmond at this post.

The reason for the

removal of Officer Redditt was due to

the receipt of a telephone

call on the morning of 4/4/68 by Philip Manuel, Chief Investi-

gator for Senator McClellan's Senate Investigating Committee,

Washington, D. C., to the effect that information had been

received by the Committee that a Negro detective on the

Memphis Police Department was to be killed.

Due to Detective E. E. Redditt's activities in

attending meetings of the striking sanitation workers in

February and

March, 1968, Redditt had been threatened on

several occasions.

Inspector Tines therefore believed the

another threat directed against Redditt. He therefore

ordered Redditt removed from his lookout post at Engine

House #2 for Redditt's own protection.

A police guard of

two officers was assigned to Redditt and his family as a

result of this threat.

A review of the tapes of the Memphis Police

Department radio transmissions for April 4, 1968, failed to

reflect

any transmissions from Police Dispatcher ordering Redditt

to move from his observation post and, in fact, it has been

ascertained that no radio equipment was maintained by the

police officers

at this observation post with which to receive

radio transmissions."

This Memphis LHM also disseminated to the CRD on

11/27/68 and by request was also furnished to the Office of

Professional Responsibility Task Force, USDJ, on 6/4/76, which

office is presently reviewing the FBI

investigation of

DI. King.

An LHM from the Atlanta Office of the FBI dated 1/31/69 (serial

5531) reflected that Rev. Ralph Abernathy, President of the Southern

Christian Leadership Conference, was interviewed by the FBI on

1/30/69 and he advised that several months previously, Rev. James

Lawson told him the day before the assassination of Dr. King that

two Negro firemen, who had been assigned to the fire station

across the street

from the motel where Dr. King was killed, were

moved to another fire station.

7

DETAILS - OVER

NW 55155 DOOId 32989764 Bage 32

---

## Page 33

• Memörandum to Mr. Gallagher

RE:

'MURKIN

According to Rev. Lawson that move left the fire

station unmanned and they were moved to a station which was

already fully manned and equipped.

Also according to Rev.

Lawson, a Negro policeman, who worked the beat which included the

motel where Di. King was killed, was moved off of that beat the

day Dr. King was killed, April 4, 1968, but prior to the

killing. This Atlanta LHM was furnished to the CRD on

2/3/69.

An airtel from the Memphis Office of the FBI,

dated 1/31/69 (serial 5533) reflects information from the

Memphis PD that it had no officers assigned to a

• "walking beat"

in Memphis on the day Dr. King was killed.

An airtel from our Memphis Office dated 2/11/69

(serial 5557) reflects that Rev. Lawson was interviewed by

the FBI on 2/11/69 and he advised he feels that certain

occurrences may have some significance.

Rev. Lawson said that on about April 2 or April 3,

1968, a Negro fireman, Floyd E. Newsum, was transferred from

the firestation near the Lorraine Motel to another station

that was already fully manned:

He also said that another

Negro fireman, name unknown, was transferred from that same

station to another station on either Tuesday or Wednesday night

before King was murdered on Thursday afternoon.

He said this

second fireman was transferred in the middle of his shift and

was transferred. "out of rotation."

Rev. Lawson explained "out of rotation" as follows:

When a fireman is assigned to a piece of equipment

he remains in that assignment until all the men already assigned

to it have been transferred.

In other

words, the last man

assigned is the last man transferred.

Rev: Lawson stated also that a Negro police officer,

Detective E.

E: Redditt, who had been assigned to the same

fire station to provide protection for Dr. King, had been

removed from the station sometime prior to the murder.

Rev. Lawson stated he has made no attempt to verify

any of this information except for his interview with Floyd

Newsum.

This new select House Committee, to date, has made

no request of the FBI.

8

L. NW 55155 DocId: 32989764 Page 33

---

