# docid-32199895

## Page 1

Released under the John Fo Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 US€ 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10274-10130

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1653

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO: AG

TITLE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/28/1961

PAGES:

102

SUBJECT:

CC, REQ, ANTI-CASTRO ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

10/30/1998

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGES, 5 LHM, 6 MEMO, RPT

DocId: 32199895

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under

DATE: 1-1

the John F

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

UN

'ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-2878

1690

MASTON CONTAINED

ARREIN LEUROLABEISTED 2ACEFS

WHERE SHOYN OTHERWISE

CLASSIFIED BY

Stadt suspici

DECLASSIRY ON; 25X.

Miam2, Florida

November 4, 1961

Re:

MILITARY AND NAVAL MATTERS - CUBA

3-31-04

05 emb /noe

Declassity on: DADA/

This document

is prepared in response

nation outside

your Committee.

Its use

yOUr

request

and is not for dissemi-

is limited to offral proceedings by

your Commiltze and the

content may not

be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the

express.

approval of

the

EBl o

The following information was reported by Md I-l on

october 30211901. This source in a former Cuban investigator C

asociated with the Cuban National Police from 1934, who has S

furnished reliable information in the past. He arrived very

recantly from Favana, Cuba

THE GUBAN REVOLUTIONARY NAVY

IM T-I stated this branch of the aumed forces of Cuba

bas

never enjoyed the full confidence of ELDEL CASTRO,

Source

pointed out that many of his officers began to defect in 1959,

and in the eacly Spring of 1960, a series of defections hegon to

occur amongst his Naval officers who represented Cuba as Naval

Accaches or Assistant Naval Attaches in foreigo countries.

Notable amongst there more the Naval Astaches of Cube assigoed

to. Venezuela, Mexico and the United States.

in Iod further recalled that many of the officens and

men of the Revolutionary Navy had defected within Cuba and 1a- sono

cases complete

Noval units, including boch man and officers,

had defected and fled to the United States.

The principal work perfomed by the Revolutionary

Navy at this time io that of extending a thin and inedtective

patrol sunveillance off of the North coast of Cuba, with the

COMQUENTIAY

113-7-911-681

SECRET

DocId: 32199895

Page 2

---

## Page 3

eleased under the John F. Kennedy

DATE: .11-14-2017

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

JNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICI

In Reply, l'lease Refer 6o

File Nc.

MM 110-5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTFIMD BASERS

THORE SHONN DIRENE SES

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

3/17/48

CLASSED BY 5668 SUnd

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

EFK)

3. 20-941

05 Kmuds

Miami, Florida

OCT 26 1961

Declassy on o

BFK

FOREIGN ECONOMIC MATTERS • CUBA

This document is prepared in response

your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

limitel to official proceedings by

your Committee and the

content may

not:

be disclosed to unautliorized person-

nel without the express

approval

FBI •

The following inforcation was furnished by (S]

M1 K-1 on Detober 16, 1961& MM To1 isla forcer Cuban

investigator who arrived very recently fron havana, tuba

This source has furnished reliable informacion in the past:

The majority of this report deals with the

scarcity and penner of distribucion of foodacuste, 8g

well as other articles of prime necessity in Cuba.

For

convensionce it is

subdivided under the headings of the

principal food items.

COOKING OILS AND GREASE

The itens which comprise the principal ones.

on the Cubas daily diet

are scarce

and rationed.

Fart

of the difficulty in securing proper food in Cuba is due

not only to

the scarcity, but to the lack of organization

in itS

dietribation.

• The distribucion systen breas

and the articles do not arrive in the hands of the

corsoners wich any consistent regularity.

A rationing system has been established for

all cooking oils and grease.

"Tattoning cards are issuer

to the people through the cómites de Defense de la

Revolucion (CUR

Committees of lefense of the Revolution).

SECRET

110-6-210-418

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32199895

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Ker

DATE: 11-14-2017

ly Assassination Records Colleg

n Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

SECRED

FOREIGN ECONOMIC MATTERS • CUBA

dictated a great number of controls and regulations, but

has not brought into being any solution of the critical

situation.

Ne:D

Refrigerators, television sets and all types of

najor and small electricsl appliances have disappeared

from the Cuban market.

"The ones" being

,sold to the public

axe

"reconstructed"

There has even been a planned and

vigorous program to pick up all old appliances which

were at one time considered beyond repair, and pieces

have been conbined in order to present at least a semblance

of availability of such appliances to the Cuban public.

Snal1 quantities of electric 1rons,

fans, unsatistactory

record players and

other snall appliances have acrived

tacars.pr.

from East Germanys

Caechoslovakde and other Soviet

Satellite

a.muskrtcaster."

countrles.

The general public regards scarcity of

practically all products for the home as alarming.

Tnere is a lack of dentifrice

products,

doodoranss, talctm, coonetico in generat, 8oap, bY819010

producte, rezor blades, and even such items as tovels,

bed

and table linen have becote excremely scacce in Cuba.

(4)g

ROZANDO DE LAXCRUZ CASTANENA TZQUIERDO a former

Lieutenant

of the Cuban Re

Revolutionary Polzce,

19423

, Io Havana,

Cuba, arcived at Key West asVa refugee

bosn Miay 3y- MOUTH

PPDAY

boat on LOetobes 13y 1961

No previous contact has

MONTH-DAY

been had with him,

but he manifested to special Agencs

(4)03)

of the FBL as the Opa-locka Inmigration Facility on October 171

1967Y

inforation

Similar in all cespects,

,but not so

detsilled as the above.

He confirmed the scarcity of all

the producta i

nentioned, that the local vendors had dis-

eppoazed in the present coimunist repine in Cubas and

indicated that the INkA, as wall as the Cuban G-2

, and

Cuben Informers, have absolute control of the residento

of every house and every block through the above descrtbed

system of ration cards.

This source noted that evcn the

traditional Cuban habit of visiting with neighbors and

having big, family dinners together has disappeared fxom

the Cubon life because of the imposhibility of securing

food without the proper ration cards.

SECRET -13-

DocId: 32199895

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

"CINAL

I00 422039

CONHPENTAL

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

November 8, 1901

LATIN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

1 - Plastiplate

I Yellow file copy

1. Section tickler

ALT: INFORMACION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIRD RXCEPE

PRORE SHOWN OTHERSISS.

4-4-94

Declassily om/

3/17/9

CLASSIFIED BIS

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

1961(

MAILEO. 2

NOV 8

Vicious Circle

Information received from two former Cuban investigators no have

recently arrived in the United States indicates that the economic siduacion in

Cuba-«lespite assistance from various Sovict-bloc netions--Jeaves much to bo

desired.

According to these two sources, increasing Government control over

the means of production and distribution has resulted in a sbortage of food and

consumer goods, which in turn has brought on more controle and the vicious

eirete of an even greater shortage of items available to the general public. The

reaction ou the people, the sources say, le a combination of black-inarket buying,

acts of sabotage,

MAV-35, and Rolando De La Cruz Castaneda Izquierdo,

ando Deer con castaneda i querdo, toner militenart of tre

Cuban Revolutionary Police; Mil airtel 10/

Defenze Comintees Haise S2d0nRg 26/61, re "Foreign Economic Watters-

left list

Cuba"')

Recording to the first of thee sources, the items which comprise the

basis of the Cuban daily diet are both scarce and rationed. Part of the difficulty

in cecuring proper food in Cuba, the source reported, is its scarcity. The rest

is the lock of organization in its distribution, In an attempt to combat the food

shortages, the Cuban Government has instituted a zationing system.

The ration

cardo are issued to the public through the Committees of Defense of the Revolution

Generally, there is one such committee for each block, and diferent cards arc

used for difterent types of items. (Diaz, MM airtel 10/26/61, re "Foreign CCa

Economic Matters - Cuba") / left blank

CONAA

lolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Calluhan.

Conrad

Del oach

Frans

Mulone

Rosen

Sutlivan

Retrol

Trotter -

Ingrain -

Inferior Imports

The poor organization in the distatoution of food--causing shortages

in some markets and surpluses in otherd has given rise to a situation popularly

known In Cuba as Venta por la libre. This means the sale of a product without

Government control, or the black market. One of the answers of the Castro

regime to both the shortages and the resulting black market, the source said,

the importation of supplies from Soviet-bloe nations. The inferior quality oi

many of the imported items;

however, has allegedly caused growing discontent

- among the people of Cuba.

100-42028

(3)

CONFID

NOT RECORDEE

$. 1961

CONFI

MAIL ROOM

N8 NOV 9

96

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

L

DocId: 32199895

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released

under theatohn 5. Kennedy Apsassination Records Collection Apt-et 1992 (44 USe 2107 Wote)

DATE:

11-14-20173

MILD STATES DEPARTME

JUSTICE

FEDERAL. BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Pluse Role This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dietent

File No.

nation nitside "Our Committee.

your Comm::'e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized persor

nel without the express

Its use is limited to official proceederos on

MM 105-1742

approval of the fBl.

Miami, Ftorida

OCT 1

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ORGANIZATIONS

REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

LASCENCION LEYTE VIDAL, Secretary tO) JOSE MIRO

CARDONA,.

Baed of the Revolutionary Council, In September

1961, advised the Council still continues to extar

nembers are in touch with each other and confer

LEYTE/ Identified the members as JOSE

MANUEL, ANTONIO DE VARONA, CARLOS, HEVIA, JUSTO CARRILLO

and ANTONIO MACEO.

memd

The Revolutionary Council is considered the

coordinating coittee of the different Cuben revolutto

organizations, and during the April 17, 1961 invastonor

Cuba, acted as the responsible organization for ti

invasion.

It issued news releases, infomation, sba

acte

as the headguarters for this operation.

expects the september 25, 1u62. Doeold ant te

new organization will be fermed to take its place

new organization will probably be headed by CARDONA

VARONA, with CARDONA as the head.

M september 26, 1961, JUSTO CARRILLO advisca

that he wis considering resigning from the Revolutionary

Council and being a

an the int? ca1k0 argentent to work independently

2959

ANCOSUNS

all

DocId: 32199895 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Re: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

to obtain arms and transportation for a military venture

in Cuba, but DIAz is unable to obtain such equipment.

1301%

DIAZ is generally considered to have a large

87222-7:10

following in the Orience and Camaguey Provinces of Cuba and

figures he could count on 5,000 to 6,000 people in Cuba to

follow him if he could obtain the necessary transportation

and equipment to open a

front in Cuba.

Floris

Do July 23 1961, ENOPOLDO FINNTES ROCA 21S2MT,

said he'was formerly

a member of the MR in Holgula, Cuba,:

and had personally known

"FRANCISCO"

, who is dead, and who

was formerly ly charge of the clandestine organization of the

MRR in Cuba. ROCA]said the second in command under

"FRANCISCO" WaS OSCAR SALAS MARRERO, who is presently in

Miami, and who is the official head of the URR group in Miand

[FUENTES

said there is considerable factionalism in

the organization, and the MR lacks transportation, arms, and

financial backing.

On September 25, 1961, ANTONIO VARONA, member of

the Revolutionary Council, advised that the Revolutionary

Council considers SALAS as the official head of the MRR 1n

Miams, and membership figures for this organization are

unknown.

JUNTA RAVOLUCIONARIA DE LIBERACION NACIONA. (JUNTA)

MM To?, who has been involved in Cubas revolutionary

activities during the past three years, and who is in

frequent contact wich the Junta,

and who has furnished reliable

inforation in the past, advised in September, 1961, that the

Source

7

DocId: 32199895 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-441-USC-2107-Hotet

DATE: 11-14+2017. •

]

Farsons

ills

- Belmont

- ivans

- Donahoc

- Cotter

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORNATIONSECKET

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

April 28, 1961

LAG A SEE CABARO ACDLADICE TAL TURE NEEDED STATES

1...

Lach coal of lus Coreraus

ATT INFOFLATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCIPE

SIERE SHOWN OTHEPWISE.

Costs noticeat

bricity

a poure in solare donorest coneciring the

visited

it's

1950, Whon Fidel Castio

j'ai

in::

Stutes os ea orconizing aad furt

11000

accelt: di

Is nonly orceniced Judg 20 Moronest

overeirovens the Batista

wd his followers cocablishes

0) .

1...

40e Miend, New Yor: and

C

20 the

Marea: initiated

¿ ectivities

?!

of these groups

aotected to interestco fedcre!

Notice, the first od

fellow 2a

wrong Castro aud

piece lostriess

the interas?

runclecoe taut Caotre

aries nikk

die Attorney

Tatin: reg

howe

states

Reconsor 30,

X0Y0"

3-29-94 0бtk

Classified by

Declassify on: DADR

hee witt's

te returncd

forcos for the invasion of. Cube

waS

Miscoly to rosilt in the

35u9%e

sorever,

con alecr Castro's

evicles no concluded

His folloors

to accord clood

in the

Ges Castro Selled pousr,

c2cỈco a

As aparticee

nein, do tus july 26 novencot,

on Controls trid over and the

and antin

12.20d

JATOS IC

2100.21

scot esive stforts in this

princet 7y

3/11/98

4124/96 56o8-sWade 1:9-12-210-2990

JFK

SECRET

DocId: 32199895 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11714-2017

SECRET

CONFI

SENTIAL •

COVERAGE OF CASERO ACTIVITIES IN THE UNITED STATES

at determining it the activities of the Castro novenent in

this country were in violation of the Foreign Agents

Registration Act of the various neutrality statutes under our

jurisdiction or othervise posed a

threat to our internal

security:

Beginning in January,

1959,

we pointed our efforts

Line

torard

the develoument of general intelligence data regarding

source

Specifically Ave instituted special

Iscoverage oncuban diplomatic establishments in the United State

wo made a concerted eftore to develop confidential informants

and sources anong both pros and anti-Castro, elements in this

country, we conducted intervievs with nunerous Cuban defectors,

refugees and other Inowledgeable sources in a positton to

provide firsthand information regarding condicious in that

colasty; and ve ceperally insensified all investigative matters

relating to the Cuban situation.

During the nast two and a half years, our increased

emphasis on Cuban matters, particulorly vich regard to pro-

Castro activities,

has been sccadily accelerated.

At the

present time,

has nearly 1,

000 ponding matters in

this field representing a siguilicane pari of our over-ali

security

works load:

we have acroloped more

shan 300 separate

We are naint01ax02 6200c

Ci Che operations C&/u)

of

the various Cabar establishment

as well as. the activities

al1

pro-basino orgonazations and

their loaders in the

United States:! and we are dissoninating on a dadiy basis to

interested agencies and otficials a vole of information

developed os an outgrowth oi our coverage.

There follows a sumary of the extent and progress

the Boreau's

coverage of various phoses of Cuban activity

Air

this couatry,

together with our plans for future coverage

this field.

/ /..?..

It s

July 26 borenent

Follorizz Castro's

take over in Cuba,

there vas a

tonporary decline in the activities of the July 26 Moverent as

an afternoth of the Batista

soverument's downfall.

Howeyer:

beginning

the Spring

o8: 1959

, with the rapid deterioration

1o United States-Coben relations,

July 26 branches wer

reactivated and became a toçal point for pro-castro propoganda

COND

SECRET

DocId: 32199895 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records.

Collection Act of 1992°

444 U50

DATE:: 11-14-2017

2107

Hote).

SECRET

COVERAGE OF CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN TUE UNITED STATES

IV.

Inmediately following Castro's

assumption of power,

the Bureau took steps

to institute coverage of

key Chiban

alpionatic establishments in this country.

concurrence of the Department of State,!

coverage (5J

was developed at the Cuban Embassy

Cuban' Del Cgat10n

Senate

te the United Nations,

and at. the

Cuban Consulates

New York City and Miami.

We also undertook

Sowce er

develop informants and sources

persomes.

At this time ve are maintalning sensitive

Governs da but renaling chees rotstishenis le destrol

country (nancly,

to the United Nations

and the Organization of

can States) as well as. 0f

sclected Cuban officials

During the past two years we have conducted

individual

inquiries concerning the activities of numerous

Cuban officials assigned

to the United States whose activicles

were of incerest.

Unring June,

tro Castro representatives vere declared persone non prata

by

the Deparonent of State based on data developed by the Burca

Following the break in relations wite Cuba an

January,

the Bureau under took

to systenatically interview Sensit

all Cuban officials assignee

remain in the Unised States.

Mare

who indicated

a desire to

total of 23 such representatives en

vere Interviened; all were cooperative; and considerable:

intelalrence data was secared,

in some

instances, including the

accial

Tiles and records of the various establishents inveived

We are continuing to keep abreast of the renaining

Cuban officinis and

escablishments in this country

wherever possible we are

socking

to develop informacion

which

might

serve

as the basis

for persoite non grada action or which

could he utilized to the advantage of the Unlted Stotes

Vo Cuban Intelligence Activides

Fron corty x959 Costro incolligence areats hore been

active in the Unitco

States, porticularly in che Miani

New York City arces.

These agents,

in many cases supported by

CONF

ENTIAL

SECRET

DocId: 32199895 Page 10

---

## Page 11

"Released under

DATE: 11-14-2614.V.997- Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote):

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REFORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

AUSTE 1901

5/1/61 - 7/25/61

REPORT MADE BY

FORTET JADS DWYER.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED EM

RJD: cms/bu

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

INTERIAL SECURITY - CURA

REFERENCE:

Regort

4/26/61: 35

Of SA ROSCISS GAMES DYER dated

vient.

- LEAT *

MIA:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

013 23 4948483- RASCA

(571)

AN ELANE, FLO

FLORIDA

Vill contiaue sumniscios of sumary report

regaiding copilound subisc? castor every two months.

• AUALNESTRATIVE -

All Olices recciTine copies of this repart

should contarse to sand kisad cories of all comunicatious

i to ten relate

containica irfomation relating to auti-FIDEl CASTHO

activities:

AFFOYED

COLEMAN

SPECIAL AGEIT

IN CHARGE

9 і ВаРели (100,624) CE9.

(Sue Coror Page "2" For Copier)

3 - Mini 18 = 10011481

(1 - 100 1717;

DiGrocerton Record or Arcades Report

AgAnCy

Fingern! Rus

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELGVI

+ 1/0

REG- 67

Learn

Notations

Hour comm

nel withuut tie express approvai of the EBl.

DocId: 32199895 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released

under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 91-11-2017

MM 105-0742

Identity

MM T-3

is OScAr

• DIAZ,

Miami,

Florida

(by request)

MM T-4 IS TEM 639-57

AM T-5 iS MURRAY SHORAGO,

Miami, Florida (by request)

MM I-6 iS CARMEN SONATONTE,

ISIO

MM T-7 IS LANUEL

DE

JESUS

ESPINOSA ALVEREZ

Location

Instant Report,

page.

134-238 Sub-A

Instant Report,

page 6

Instant Report;

Page 12

MEY 131-646

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and 'n" symbols

been vilized

odly in those instances where identitios

must be concealed.

• COVER PAGE -

DocId: 32199895

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released wyler the John F. Kennedy Assas

DATE:

ination Records Collection Act

1.:64(R00.3-3-58)

1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

Copy to:

Repori of:

Dales

Flold Office File £:

Tille:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

1 - OSI, Robbins AFB, C2. (RY)

- ONI, 6th ND, Charleston, S.C. (RM)

- G-2, Fl. McPherson, Ga.

(P.M)

U.S. Border patrol, Miani (RY)

1

INS, Miand (RM)

1 - U.S. Custons, Miami (RK)

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Ofice:

kiani, Florida

AUG 1 (: 1961

105-1742

Buroou Fllo 1: 109-584

ANTI-FIDEL, CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DocId: 32199895

Charterer:

Synupils:

This document ir menarcil in resprase

nation

nutside:

long

your Commit

ncl without

the express approval

110191.7

request and is not for diserni

is toilet to efficiet

preter

disclosed to matioride persor-

Page 13

AND INFORMAT LOS CONTAINEO

INTERNAL SECURITE - CURA 224 TV BY TAS-PANGAL

(JFK

ANTONTO DE VARONA organized Rescate to juctify his position

of leadership in FRD.

Rescate is a political organization

avaltzue the

time wheu it can obrair politiral control in

Cuba. YPR is reportedly without leaderchip, severc fictio

alish exists, and its fudure existence is questioned.

IGNACIO RASCO LaS

been re-clected as head of Mic.

leading Mo menbors reportedly considarinE discontinuing

cooperation with U.S. governnert.

Agrupacion Monticristi

organization of JUSTO CAPRIIIO has no menbership or activity

as such.

IN? Clains it vas left out of important decisions

and positions by Revolutionary Council (RO) and MRP divided

on issue pe withdrawing fron RC.

BAPTIST. RAY, head Of MRP,

decided or withdrawing.

RAY in 7/61, clained U.S. govern-

ment forced his ouster fron if leadershin.

ROSELTO CISNEROS

is acting bead of IRP and vill try to establish unity-in

organization.

Miani section of MRE has some menhers wbo

refuse to

EscOpE rAT's deplacement.

RC has issued few press

releases since 4/17/61, irvasion failure. ERD continues to

be cavily griticined for acorosing former Cornists and

FIDEISTAS, SquanderiLg money, and refusing acceptance to

dorme! employees of Enlisra regime. Mu f-4 said Cuban

exiles have abandornd hops to overthrow Cubas government

without outside holo. There is activity to form a Cubar

governont

exile.

Sone sourcos say CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS

is coercing

as a leading figure in the aLti-CASIPO movenent.

SANCOES ARANCO, 1024 DE A0 211100CC OI 9541-CASTRO organi-

2$1$019,

QUEEN IS IEON,

Scinice

1omar Condo laleder di Arteend in organicine former

Coll

military me.

American ti

Ponturere cordimus to conc

is lie:

1e doi anti-CASaid ordications.

Me to preparty of lo dal du la soonod to

---

## Page 14

leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-1742

RUD: cms

DETAILS:

I .

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD)

(Democratic Revolutionary Front) Miami

In June, 1960, the FRD was formed as an alliance

01 several anti-Conmunist Cuban revolutionary organizations.

Although the FRD has accepted into membershig many other

organizations, the following organizations are considered

the most important,

receive the most publicity, and exert

the most

influence

The

Authentic party headed by Manues

ANTONIO DE

ARONA

LOREDO.

MM T-I, who was an official in the Freate until

June,

1061, advised on July 5, 1961, That VARONA had

organined a political organization known as Rescate for

the purpose of justifying his position as coordinator

of the PRD.

MM I-1 explained that Rescate consists of some

members of the Authentic organization, & Cuban political

party, and maintains headquarters at 24th Street and

Biscayne Boule vard, Miani, Florida.

Rescate was organized

by VARONA as a political organization to back him as che

political leader of the anti-CASTRO movement among political

exiles outside of Cuba and to give VARONA the nucleus of

an established organization for future political power 1

Cuba.

MM T-1 advised that VARONA uses this organization

as the basis for his position of leadership in the FRD.

When VARONA was originally campaigning for this position,

he claimed he represented the Authentic organization, but

this was denied by many of

the leading politicians in the

DocId: 32199895 Page 14

---

## Page 15

7Released

under the John F. Kerredy Assassination Records Collect

con Act of 1992 714. USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14,2017

MM

105-1742

and had subsequenily defected fron the Cubar government

and

arrived in Miami about

January, 1961.

CUTIERREZ iS

regarded with suspicion and distrust by many Cuban

exiles; who state they doubt his ambitions sincerity;

and anti-Communist feelings:

M T4y who

•has heen

active in Cuban revolutionary

activities for the past four years, adrised on July 17,

CUTIERRE CLaims he is being threatened with

deportation and detention by the United States government

and if these

threats continue,

he and about

100 of his

mentin

leave the united states and go to Cuba

to engage in

mlitary action against the present Cuban

government. I T said it was extremely doubtful that

CUrIERREZ haS &BY

nilitary equipment, money, or trans

it is possibie ke could

recruit 100

incividuals in Miami to accompany him on such a venture.

2 :

Moviniento Racuperacion Resp

INCiONAriO (MRR)

Mien, was

under the

leadership of

MANUNSXARDIME and has

suitered considerable factionalism since

it was origically

founded.

On dune 2, 1951,

ALICIA

SUAREZ

PERZZ,

Florida, advised she had just returned trou

Miami,

the

vuder-

ground movement in Cubay

she belonged to the wa

and had engaged in sabotage activities.

explained thet

the underground leader of

the MAR in Cuba was

"PRANCISCO," but tlat he is now dead.,

The leader of the

was captured and is presently in jail in Cuba.

1961, Invasion of Cuba som

(SUAREZ

explained that with

the MR leadership gode,

there is

considerable

confusion in the organization and severe

factionalise is contioning to develop in the United states.

The organization has about 75

members in Revang

and

about

DocId: 32199895

Page 15

---

