# docid-32136659

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

TDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under

the

John F.

kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

144 USC

2107 Notel .

Case# :NW 54046

Date: 08-23-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10054-10176

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-5388

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRITTON. HENRY B. III

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/01/1967

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSPECTS, SOTO, HENRY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

08/18/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE: 01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 54046 DocId:32136659 Page 1

---

## Page 2

F86a HOn9-17065)

" FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION,

REPORTING OFFICE

NEVY ORITANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

UNSUB

HENRY

SOTO - VICTIM

DATE

6/1/67

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/16/67 - 6/1/67

REPORT MADE BY

SA HENRY B.

BRITTON, IlI

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED ay

/pd

UPUC

mas 10

AssAssINatIoN oA

REFERENCE:

President JohN f Kennedy i

New Orleans airtel to Bureau,

dated 5/16/67

ALL INFO? TION CONTAINED

-C-

HEREIN lu

i

ADMINISTRATIVE:

DATE 847-93 BY 802100KSEn

indices search and file review reflect throwins

information regarding HENRY SOTO.

SOTO has been assigned FBI

number

586-073-B and subject in New

• Orleans file 31-6267.

File number 31-6268, dated October 24, 195%, titled:

na

"HENRY LAVRENCE SOTO, was., 'Black"

'Fats'; VICTOR EMANUEL

SOTO, üE.;

LUIS SALVADORE

SOTO, wa., Luis s. Sot; RONALD A.

BURKE,

'Breeze'; JOHN A. BURKE, wa., Abbie; UNENOWN VICTOS;

VSTA,"

This case was predicated upon receipt of confidential

information received from NO 1075-C that aforementioned subjects,

were transporting prostitutes interstate from New Orleans-to

Case has beer: Pending over ong yêgr

_ Yes

J. No: Pending prosecution over six months

DAPPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

REC- 19

Bureau

b2-1090605388577

-

New

O21e225

(139-147)

Yes

ORIGINAL FILED

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

REC 26

EX-113

NOT

RECORDED

199 JUN 14 1967

JUN

5

1967

Dissomination Record of Attached Report

Khim. dien

Agency

Reques: Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Pwd.

DON

T907

694(H)

By

Zumleard

6ZJUN 2 31967 125

HH 54046

DocId: 32136659 Page 2

Notations

SEGI

LElY

---

## Page 3

NO 139-147

HBB/pa

Mobile, Alabama,

Informant advised that subjects may be

involved in narcotics traffic.. Informant contact in Mobile

negative regarding alleged activity.

Subjects BURKE were

nephews of a well-known and influential New Orleans politician.

Case was administratively closed February 24, 1958, inasmuch

as investigation had failed to identify any of the

subjects'

alleged victins, and since it had failed to substantiate the

remarks of the complainant.

On October 9, 1959, NO 1075-C advised that HENRY

soTo was involved in working as a pimp in the New Orleans

French Quarter.

on dune s, 1955, ELIZABETH I. MC CANN, was., PCI,

advised that HENRY

SOTO was one of several individuals

involved in prostitution activity in New Orleans.

On Novenber 25, 1966, NO 1439 advised that FENRY

SOTO was possibly subject involved in theft of $4, 000 worth

of jewelry and other valuables

stolen from home of a New

Orleans resident.

in airtel to Bureau, dated November 13, 1958,

entitled, "CRINDEL - CRS," New Orleans file number 94-336,

intornation received from New Orleans Police Department

related that HENRY LAWRENCE SOTO had allegedly beaten e

bar in the New Orleans French Quaster.

Police

infornants identify SOTO as a narcotics pusher in the New

Orleans area.

New Orleans file 91-3032, entitled, "BANK BURCLARY

SUSPECTS" CarrieS HENRY I. SOTO aS

an individual to be

tioned in a bank robbery case..

ser121 27 carries S0I0, ques-

name wih listed FBI number 586-073-B, New Orleans Police

Department number 62309, and Identification Record citing

SOTo on numerous cases involving narcotics, aggravated

assault, simple armed robbery, and possession of burglary

tools.

His record indicates violations in the following

states:

Louisiana, California, Kansas, Pennsylvania,

Tennessee, Illinois, and Missouri.

(COVER

PAGE)

54046

DocId: 32136659

Page 3

---

