# docid-32296137

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10216-10413

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-95-

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 05C 2107 Notel.

Lasef:N0 45054 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/14/1961

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, CONSPR, IRS LAWS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v.9.1

HH 45854

11

DocId: 32296137

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-228

named in other counts of the Western Pennsylvania indictment

with various violations of the Federal and National Firearms

Acts, interstate transportation of stolen property, receiving

stolen property and Mutual Security Act - Munitions Control.

Dr. LOUIS C. PESSOLANO was named an unindicted co-conspirator

the Western Pennsylvania indictment.

VICTOR CARLUCCI of 201 Highland Ave., New Kensington, is

the son-in-law of SAMUEL MANNARINO. .

The indictments returned by the Federal Grand Jury in West

Virginia and Western Pennsylvania were consolidated and

trial convened in the U. S. District Court,

, Western District

of Pennsylvania, Pittsburgh, on 1/11/60, before visiting

U. S. District Judge ROGER T. FOLEY of Las Vegas, Nevada.

on 2/4/60, the jury found the defendants guilty on all

counts of the indictments.

Judge FOLEY sentenced SUTOR, ROTHMAN, MEROLA, CARLUCCI anc

HANNA each to five years imprisonment and $10,000 committe

fines while GIORDANO was sentenced to three years imprisonment

but was not fined.

On 2/24/60, the defendants appealed their convictions to

the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, Philadelphia, Pa. No

ruling has been handed down to date.

Recently; Intelligence Division, IRS, Pittsburgh, transmitted

Information from one of Its informants to the effect that

JEK Law 11(a)

PG 615-C has advised that the

Empire Treasury lottery ticket can be purchased in New

Kensington and in Youngstown, Ohio.

A new case has been

opened and is being vigorously investigated by the Pittsburgh

Division.

REVIEWED BY

JEX TASK FORGE

1-20-98 cunh

O NELSAGE IN FULL

X RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL:

92-2918-95

NW 45854 DooId: 32296137 Page 2

---

