# docid-32326167

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90044-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-6666-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/06/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

FRANK MATULA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HH 45864

DocId:32326167 Page 1

7

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

REC 20 so cares

FBI.

Date:

9/6/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

WEEFROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-6666)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5008)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

S. GEORGE BURRIS;

FIRST BERKELEY CORPORATION

OF NEW. YORK

MISCELLANECUS # INFORMATION

CONCERNING

_(ACCOUNTING. AND

FRAUD SECTION

Re Los Angeles airtel to the Bureau dated 9/1/61.

Information on attached pages should not be

disseminated outside the Bureau at this time.

he,

saia

what

hung up.

said he did not know the significance.of.or

the reason why

LENTINE made such a call.

described LENTINE as an employee of 'ANTHONY

DORIA and HOFFA.

LENTINE 1s. Business Agent for a Local of

the Allied Industrial Workers Union.

Bureau, (63-6666): (Encls.

• 15) (AIR MAIL)

Dallas

2)

(AIR MAIL)

New York (Info.)

. (Encis.

. (62-12556) (AIR MAIE)

1

3

-

WFO (Info.) (Encls.

4) (AIR

MAIL)

Los Angeles (62-5008)

q/u1/41

EX: 105

AAH: LFL

(9)

ser each

REG 207

63-6bbb

54736

DED

Neck

*tt

2Eb

PERENT 2

BEC: 40D

Sent

OTHER 4

3)

26.1961

Approved;

Special Agent in Charge

Can wich

HW

45864 DocId: 32326167

Page 2

CON

ATION

---

## Page 3

LA. 62-5008

Each office receiving copies of the enclosed pages

should review their indices and furnish the Bureau and Los

Angeles with all available information on the individual and/or

incidents discussed on the enclosed pages. No investigation

or outside inquiries should be made until specifically requested

by Los Angeles.

Much of the information furnished by

is of such

a nature that it could be readily traced to

at this time,

and if so, life of

would be in critical danger.

In accordance with Bureau instructions, separate

ages have been prepared on each individual and/or situatio

entioned by !

I and copies of these pages are being furnished

to interested offices.

TOPIC

PAGE NO.

GENERAL INFORMATION ON JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

FRANK J. MATULA, JR.

MRS.. FRANK CARBO: (VIOLA)

JOHN FILLIPOFF

TROUSDALE. ESTATES

ENCLOSURES:

TO BUREAU: Three copies each of Pages 1 through 5.

TO DALLAS: One copy each of pages 1 and 5.

TO NEW YORK:. One copy each of pages 1 and 3.

TO WFO:

One copy each of pages 1, 2, 4, and 5.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

-2 -

Hw

45864 DocId: 32326167 Page 3

---

