# docid-32292944

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10220

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2839-1ST NR 249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MACFARLANE, JOSEPH J.

MALONE, JONN F.

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/12/1964

3

RAB, BGK, ORDERED DEPORTED, ASSOC, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC FBI LTR

09.1

DocId: 32792944

Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

Released utter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SANTO VOLPE, JR. sons of SANTO, SR. (deceased)

mentioned above, is married to daughter of WILLIAM

MEDICO,

described as

member of LON and is subject of

AR case

in Philadelphia.

ANGELO MEDICO and PHILIP MEDICO, brothers,

both reside in

Pittston,

Pas

They are two of

the

four

brothers who own the Medico Induotries, Indy Pittston,

Pa., manufacturer of heavy equipment for induetry.

They are brothers to WILLIAM MEDICo, reported member

of ICN, and subject of AR case in Philadelphia. ANGELO -

was reported to be a member oi LCh in 1956€

PHILIP,

according to a reliable source, is currently a member

Of LCN.

JOSEPH KURCHOCK, residence- Hazeltown,

Pa.g

current active Philadelphia informant (PH 655-01;

associate of area top hoods including those mentioned

above, and those mentioned below.

FRANK SILVA, resident of Pictston, Foi, associate

Of WILLIAM MEDICO, previously mentioned; employment -

radio announcer for WPTS; publicity director for Monticello

Raceway, Monticello, NY.

ANGELO SON, resident of Pitiston, Pi, brother-

in-law to WILLIAM MEDICO, mentioned above; employed by

Medico Industries.

DR. RALPH DEL PRIORE, dentist, resides in, and

has his practice in northem New Jersey.

is the son-in-

LaW OI. WILLIAM MEDICO, previously mentioned

DU: DEL PRIORE

presently resides at 277 Knickerbocker Road, Pennaflys, New

Jersey and formerly resided in Paramas, New Jersey. Newark

files contain no derogatory information regarding DR. DEL

PRIORE other than the fact that

ene Docton's wife is a

daughter of WILLIAM MEDICO.

Photograph of RUSSELL ALFRED BUFALINO is attached.

Photos of other individuals attending not available.

2

DocId: 32292944 Page 2

---

