# docid-32138795

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 75 054

DATES

talk 2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10058-10311

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 89-43-1301

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. CG

DIRECTOR. FBI

DATE: 11/30/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-1167

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/22/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32138795

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

URGENT 11-30=63-

3-27

AM

PEO

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, DALLAS

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 62-6115

2P

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FO KENNEDY, NOVENDER TUENTYTUO

LAST. DALLAS, TEXAS.

RE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA CONMITTEE ALLEGATIONA

ON NOV. TUENTYLICT LAST, COLO JACK REILLY, DIRECTOR OF

SPECIAL EVENTS, OFFICE OF MAYOR, CITY OF CHICAGO, ADVISED SA

HUBERT M. MART THAT AFTER HIS RETURN FROM PRESIDENT KENNEDY/S

FUNEZAL HE HAD RECEIVED INFO FROM TONY PEREZ, UIO IS A RELIABLE,

WELL INFORMED, ANTI CASTRO CUBAN, WHO HAD IN PAST ASSISTED MAYOR:

DALEY/S OFFICE RE CUBAN MATTERS. REILLY ADVISED PEREZ TOLD HIM

JOHN ROSSEN HAD BEEN MEETING WITH FPCC IN ROSSEN/S THEATER IN

PERIOD IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT AND THAT

THESE MEETINGS HAD LASTED UNTIL TIREE OR FOUR IN MORNINGO REILLY

DESIRED FBI DIRECTLY INTERVIEU PEREZ BECAUSE OF NATURE OF INTO.

PEREZ INTERVIEUED ELEVEL: TUENTYNINE SIXTYTIREE BY SAS HERDERT K.

STALLINGS AND ROBERT P. GLENDON. PEREZ ADVISED HE DID NOT HAVE

FIRSTLAND KOULEDGE OF ALLEGED FPCC MEETINGS WITH ROSSEMO, HOWEVER

HAD LEARNED THESE MEETINGS UND TAKEN PLACE AT SENATE TILATER, MADISON

END PAGE ONE

89-43-1301

SERIALIZED A FILED S

NOV 3 0 1963

у іжім та

DocId: 32138795 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Redeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USt 2107 futes.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

AND REDZIE, CHICAGO, PEREZ ADVISED THAT ABOUT TUO YEARS AGO HE

MAD DEBATED ROSSEN AT NORTHVESTERN UNIVERSITY AND THAT HE, PEREZ,

REPRESENTED CHICAGO COUNCIL FOR A DEMOCRATIC CUBA WHICH MAS

OPPOSED EPCÓ LINE AS APOLOGISIS FOR CASTRO, PEREZ HAD NO

SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS

RE ASSASSINATION BUT ADVISED HE MAD APPRISED

REILLY OF FPCC MEETINGS DECAUSE OF ITS POSSIBLE NATIONAL IMPORTANCE

PEREZ WAS MOST COOPERATIVE BUT UNADLE TO PROVIDE SOURCES OF

INTO ON ROSSEN/S ACTIVITIES WITH EXCEPTION THAT HE GAVE NAME OF

A PERSON IDENTICAL WITH CG SIX FIVE TWO NINE DASI! C AS PERSON UNIO

WOULD BEST KNOW ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN. CG SIX FIVE TVO NINE DASH!

S HAS BEEN INTERVIEVED PREVIOUSLY RE ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN AND

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT WITH NEGATIVE RESULIS THIS REGARD.

THIS INFORMANT HAS FURNISHED INFO ON ROSSEN, HIS THEATER BUSINESS

IN CHICAGO AND HIS ACTIVITIES AS CHAIRMAN OF FPCC IN CHICAGO.

NO-FURTHER INQUIRY WILL BE CONDUCTED. AT THIS TIME RE ALLEGA-

TION AS REPORTED BY REILLY®

ENDV. ACK AND HOLD

WA

4-36 AM OK FBI WA JS

DL.

3-34 AM CST OK FBI DL HOLDING

DocId: 32138795 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"URGENT

:11-30-63

3-27

AM. PEO

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, DALLAS

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 62-6115

2P

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F• KENNEDY, NOVEMBER TWENTYTWO

LAST. DALLAS, TEXAS.

RE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE ALLEGATION.

ON NOV• TWENTYEIGHT LAST, COL. JACK REILLY, DIRECTOR OF

I SPECIAL EVENTS; OFFICE OF MAYOR, CITY OF CHICAGO, ADVISED SA

HUBERT M. HART THAT AFTER HIS RETURN FROM PRESIDENT KENNEDY/S

V FUNERAL HE HAD RECEIVED INFO FROM TONY PEREZ, WHO IS A RELIABLE,

WELL INFORMED, ANTI CASTRO CUBAN, WHO HAD IN PAST ASSISTED MAYOR

DALEY/S OFFICE RE CUBAN MATTERS. REILLY ADVISED PEREZ TOLD HIM

JOHN POSSEN HAD BEEN MEETING WITH FPCC IN ROSSEN/S THEATER IN

PERIOD INMEDIATELY PRIOR TO ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT AND THAT

THESE MEETINGS HAD LASTED UNTIL THREE OR FOUR IN MORNING REILLY

DESIRED FBI DIRECTLY INTERVIEW PEREZ BECAUSE OF NATURE OF INTO.

PEREZ INTERVIEWED ELEVEN TWENTYNINE SIXTYTHREE BY SAS HERBERT Ko

STALLINGS AND ROBERT R. GLENDON. PEREZ ADVISED HE DID NOT HAVE

FIRSTHAND KHOWLEDGE OF ALLEGED. FPCC MEETINGS WITH ROSSEN., HOWEVER

HAD LEARNED THESE MEETINGS HAD TAKEN PLACE AT SENATE THEATER, MADISON

END PAGE ONE

P1,

89-43-130

SERIALIZED JANE FILED SANT

NOV ® 0 1963

FEI - DALLAS

DocId: 32138795 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Reteased inder the John E. Kennedy Assassination Reekds Coldeotion Aet of 1992/dUSe2102 Hote).

DATE:

=11-17-3017

PAGE TWO

AND KEDZIE, CHICAGO. PEREZ ADVISED THAI ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO HE

HAD DEBATED ROSSEN AT NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY AND THAT HE, PEREZ,

REPRESENTED CHICAGO COUNCIL FOR A DEMOCRATIC CUBA WHICH HAS

OPPOSED FPCC LINE AS APOLOGISTS, FOR CASTRO: " PEREZ. HAD NO

SPECIFIC ALLEGATIONS RE ASSASSINATION BUT ADVISED HE HAD APPRISED

REILLY OF FPCC MEETINGS BECAUSE OF ITS POSSIBLE NATIONAL IMPORTANCE®

PEREZ WAS MOST COOPERATIVE BUT UNABLE TO PROVIDE SOURCES OF

INFO. ON ROSSEN/S ACTIVITIES WITH EXCEPTION THAT' HE GAVE NAME OF

A PERSON IDENTICAL WITH CG SIX FIVE TWO NINE DASH C AS. PERSON WHO

WOULD BEST KNOW ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN. CG SIX FIVE TWO NINE DASH

$ HAS BEEN INTERVIEVED PREVIOUSLY RE ACTIVITIES OF ROSSEN AND

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS THIS REGARD.

THIS INFORMANT HAS FURNISHED INFO ON ROSSEN, MIS THEATER BUSINESS

IN CHICAGO AND MIS ACTIVITIES AS

CHAIRMAN OF FPCC IN CHICAGO.

NO FURTHER INQUIRY WILL BE CONDUCTED AT THIS TIME RE ALLEGA-

TION AS REPORTED BY REILLY.

ENDV ACK AND HOLD

WA 4-36 AM. OK FBI WA JS

DI 3-34 AM CST OK FBI DI HOLDING

DooId:32138795 Page 5

---

