# docid-32330261

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90089-10296

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-344127-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/21/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

19.1

HH 54460

15

DocId: 32330261

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADAHO FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

LOTS

SUBJECT:

DATE:

MAY 2 1 1959

IFIED BYS

194

DECLA

DIREYFOR, FR

SAL, MiAMI (109-45)

CARIBBEAN POLIIZCAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA

Foreign Political Matter - Cuba

ROLANDO MASFERRER

Enclosed herewith are eleven copies of

a letterhead memorandum entitled:

"Caribbean

Political and Revolutionary Activities Involving

Cuba, Panama, Tominican Republic, Nicaragua"

Th18 memorandum 1s being classified "SECRET"

In order to further protect the identity of Mu 635-s,

who furnished Informatior set fort in this memorandum.

MM 1-1 18

JOSEPH MEROLA

•ontacted by SA

LEMAN L, STAPFORI,

on May 9,11

and 16, 1959.

It should be noted h

MEROLA 1e allegei to have been

a jewel thief 1n

He clain. io

be completely

loyal to the Under StAg

he has

furnished a con

siderable amount of va able informasion

Cuban and Panamanian aylutionary matters, some of

which has been verified by other sources.

Therefore,

1t 1s believed the intimation he has furnished in

the past has been rollable

MEROLA 19 presently

under Indictment in Fitsburgh. Pennsylvania in con-

nection. with the robber.

of a quantity of guns and

other materials from National Guard Armory at

conton, Ohio, October it.

MEROLA haS been pA)

Bureau

(Enei

New York (Enci

washington Fiel!

1

chicago (Encl

Denver (Encl.

]

1

San Diego (Fo:]

- Los Angeles (Enol

15 - M1ami

LLS: ems

(23)

HI- ENCLOSURE

AGENCY

P: "

5/21

:RMi

109-5-710-535

En

1: IRM!

IRMI

1 hM

(RM )

' (RM) REG 18

109-12-210-535

MA! 25

1959

8/20181

EXT.

REASG

UF REVIEW

8120 91

NH 54460

DooId: 32330261

Page

---

## Page 3

Mes

109.45

cont..'

"hi? office on

evaluan:

rindent al

identity should be fully pri

MA * -2 1S RICHARD JAFRE, 666 Noztheast

125tr

Street, North Miami, Blorida,

contacted

MaY 11,

1959 by

SA GEOFGE E

DAVIS,

JR. (by

request.

2(2)

MM. 2-3 18 MN 635-5,

contacted May 12, 1959

Dy SA JEORGE

DAVIS.

JR.

Origina1

intoriation 15

10catel in Mian

file

134-211-Sub-A.

siples for Information purposes are being

destgrated for New York and Washington Field Offices,

In view of their interest in the Caribbean political

situation. Information copies are being designated

to Panamanian revolt ionary matters.

It should 1=::4% that JOSEPH MEROLA 15

the individual tw

ROLANTO MASPERRER has furnished

& message to be

felivered to CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

MEROLA alã0 Informs?

that he was present during the

conversation Petreen #18 %ONEY OAKES and NICO YPERIFANOS.

MEROLA= hat he would attempt to obtain

additional information

as It comes to him regarding

the possible arms purchase by Sir SIDNEY OAKES frOM

YPERIFANOS.

He informed that he would also be alert

to rsport other matters

as they came to him regarding

the caribbean political

situation,

copies of this memorandur have been disseminated

on a local level to. Immigration and Naturalization Service,

Miami; United States Customs, Miami; Office of Naval In-

telligence, District Intelligence Office, 5th Naval

District, United States Naval Base, Charleston, South

Carolina; A-d Headquarters, Third Arny, Fort McPherson,

Georgia; and 7th Mistrict Office of Special Investigations, :

MacDill Air Force Pass, Tampa, Florida.

Translation of MASFERRER letter to PRIO was

made by SOPHIE SALIBA, Translator, Miami Office.

NW 54460 DooId: 32330261 Page 3

---

