# docid-32301553

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10388

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-69

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 12/29/1963

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

MIRR, MEMBERS, ASSOC, BOAT, FINANCES, RAID, MIL ACT,

AIRPLANE, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

Nit 45881 DocId: 32301553 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1 - Wannal!

1 - Nasca

January 3, 1964

MI. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

Director, FBI

JFK

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIO (MIRR

NTERNAL SECURITY - CUB/

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Reference is made to our previous communications in

to bomb Cuba and to Information furnished on January 2, 1964,

indicating that the Bureau of Custons in Miami, Florida, had

Rinselzed two boats and the five Cubans who were aboard, thus

ix,

thwarting the plans of the MIRR.

1822

INFORMA

During the night of December 28-29, 1963, Orlando Bosch

Avila, head of the MIRR; William Johnson, an American; and the

@five Cubans mentioned above were interviewed by representatives

of our Miami Office.

AL

HEKLIN IS

BATt

Bosch orally admitted full responsibility for the

operation. He stated that he had financed it by soliciting

voluntary contributions fron Cubans and that he had borrowed

the small boat fron Armando Martinez, a friend, whom he

claimed knew nothing about the raid.

Bosch selected the

MAiLED personnel scheduled to participate in the raid but denied

JA -3

That Captain Francieco Hernandez Fernandez and the "3bb Tide

Involved. Bosch claimed that the bombs were to be delivered

coMM-Faby the small boat to a place which he declined to identify;

that they would be picked up by an airplane; and that they

would be dropped on the oil tanks at Nuevitas, Cuba. He

claimed that the airplane was owned by a Cuban pilot and

that it was not based in the United States: He refusedito

Tolson,

Belmont

Identify theipliot and denied that the pilot wes Evello Alpizar

Perez.

Mohr i :

He stated that the 'failure of this raid was a severe

Casper

Callahan

blow and that it had cost him about $5,000.

Bosch declined to

Conrad

DeLoach.

REfurnish a signed statement.

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

97-447469

1i /

Trotter.

1:- Mtan's (105-2855)

THN :klv (6)

Tele. Room '

Holmes

landy

SEE NOTE PAGE 3

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45881

DocId:32301553

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE:

OTHER 4

Our informant in this matter was

who was among those picked up by Customs. Alpizar was most cooperative

with our Miami Office and it was on basis of his information that

raid was thwarted. There is no need to advise the Department that

was our informant at this time. If the Department indicates

willingness to prosecute we can consider advising Department of

identity of

:

- 3 =.

IH 45881 DocId:32301553 Page 3

---

