# docid-32301107

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10277-10442

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-127

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WANNALL, W. R.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE :

DATE: 06/22/1964

•PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ASSOC, OBA, LOPEL, LUIS DIAZ, ACA, BOMB, SUGAR

MILL, CESSNA, SHOT DOWN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32301107

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Horey.

DATE : 11-14-2017

Reg.?" * EPTiONAL FORM NO. iO

MAY 1962 EDITION

OSA GEN. REO, NO.. 27

35010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

•Tolson

•Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan .

Memorandum

Mr: W. C. sultans

1 - Belmont

1

• Mohr

1 - Deloach

DATE: 6/22/64

culivan.

frid

FROM

• Tavel.

Mr. W. R.. Wannall

1 - Sullivan

Trotter

Tele. Room:

1

- Wannall

DR

Holmes

- LiaisoriEVIEWED BY #WJFK Y

ASK FORCE

1 - Nasca

SUBJECT: MOVIMIENEO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

114/1 no

-RELEASE

WOLL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

The captioned organization 1s a militant Miami, Florida,

carrying out attacks, on Cuba.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

85

DAIE 913

We recently received information concerning plan of

MIRR to bomb Cuban sugar mill using base in Bahamas.

disseminated this data

to State; Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) ;

Army, Navy; Air Force; Defènse Intelligence Agency (DIA) ;

Voy. So

Immigration and Naturalization Service; Federal Aviation Agency;

Coast Guard;

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department of

State,

British;

and Customs.

Customs in Miami had been conducting

actif investigation of previous MIRR plan to attack Cuban ship.

Customs advised it was taking steps to prevent attack on sugar

mill By letter dated 6/16/64 we furnished data to Assistant

Attorney General J. Walter Yeagley and advised him that in view

action being taken by Customs no investigation was being

onducted by Bureau.

Miami Office on 6/20/64 advised that press quoted

Havana Radio as stating that "pirate" plane which had bombed

sugar mill in Cuba had been shot down. Press reported that

Orlando Bosch, head of MIRR, stated he was afraid that this

plane was theirs.

On 6/20/64 Customs; Miami, which is conducting active

investigation of this matter

advised it was checking activities

ot oneltuls biaz who had recently rented single engine Cessna

aircraft from American Aviation in Miami and that Diaz was

supposed to have igone to West Palm Beach, Florida, but had

not yet returned the aircraft.

(It is noted that State

Department on 6/20/64 with reference to plane shot down in

Cuba advised its occupants, Luis Diaz Lopez; Luis Veraga;

and ines maragon had beet captured but that Diaz had died.)

REVIEVED SEY

OK TASK FORCE

97-4474

VHN: gC

(813

64 JUL 9 1964

ON 7.23.97

REG. 17

& REBECESO DISECLOS

92-4474127

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

€ JUL 1 1964

DocId: 32301107

Page 2

---

