# docid-32308506

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10364

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

2-1693-92

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NT 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/21/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, FS, MORINO, MIKE, ARMS, GPH, ASSOC, CRIM

ACT, ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

HH 53074

17

DocId: 32308506

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-3f. (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date

June 21, 1963

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1693)

SAC, MIAMI (2-312) (P)

RE:

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION FORCES

enclo.

(INTERPEN)

CC

TO

1.60..

NEUTRALITY MATTER

REQ

NECD. 59-69.

MAY 2 2 1967

erasified by SR6BJA

Declassify on! UADi38

1009/30/03

ANS

BY:.

AND CE CIA INFORMATION

ReMiamitels 6/19 and 6/20/63.

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP

10-16-90

SID KR

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a letterhead

155-17

memorandum, dated and captioned

as above.

(JFK)

Copies of attached letterhead memorandum are

being disseminated locally to U.S. Border Patrol, U.S.

Customs, INS, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax Unit, U.S. Coast

Guard, G-2, OSI, ONI, State Department and CIA.

Miami will follow and report prosecutive action

in this matter.

2163

mimTs infrem 639-37184112)

3

Bureau (Encl. -

3 (RM - AM) ON 5/11/94

DECLASSIFIED BYSPS MAC/GEL

... (ГК)..

2 - Miami

RJD: ems

REC-64

21693-42

(5)

ICCATTUNA

liarsed 1r 6/26/63

Copy so: Caroline in sit

12 JUN B0$9963

by routing

slip for into.

42778

Approved:

9063

Special Agent in Charge

ISen

NW 53074 DocId: 32308506

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

2-312

Miami, Florida

June 21, 1963

Re:

Intercontinental Penetration Forces

(Interpen)

Neutrality Matter

MM Who has been tovolved the a reie

revolutionary activities for the past four years,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past,

on June 18, 1963, advised that Mike,Morino, 5130 Northwest

113th Terrace, Hialeah, Florida, appears to be an Anerican

citizen who previously has sold arms to Cuban exiles 1n

Miami, Florida. Morino reportedly is a friend of Frank

Anthony Sturgis, who introduced him to members of the

*"Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil," an anti-

E12

Communist Cuban revolutionary organization. AbiLoc

NH 53074

revolutionary activities, and is considered untrustworthy.

The "Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil"

bought some weapons from Morino, then complained he charges

ten times the value of these guns. (4)M)

MM I-I said that Gerald Patriok reming, head

F/2

of the Intercontinental Penetration Forces (Interpen),

found out about Morino and that Morino maintains a

quantity of weapons at his residence. Hemming is considering (in

Classified by

SPGBJALGAL

1RS /3/85

Declassign

por 180-4510-36

DECLAS TED BY SPEAK SE

ON. 5/4/94

DocId: 32308506

Page

---

## Page 4

Re:

Intercontinental Penetration Forces

a plan to steal these guns from Morino, and at the

present time is working out the details. Hemming

made several calls to Morino's house, and was trying

to arrange an appointment to meet Morino at the Trio

Diner, 3632 Southwest 8th Street, on June 19, 1963, at

9:00 a.m. Hemming contacted Joe Garman, Steve, Wilson,

Roy Hargraves, and Richard Watley, members of his

Hemming's buying

arms from Morino. Morino took Watley

out to his car and showed him some samples which Morino

had in the trunk of his automobile. Morino then took

Watley to a private residence at 2954 Southwest 16th.

Terrace, and showed him a 50 caliber machine gun which

thereafter, Morino's wife and children returned home

inexpectedly, so Hemming postponed the robbery of Morinc

intil a later time* (& \M)

Hemming

arranged to meet Morino the following

morning, June 20, 1963, at the Trio Diner. (AM)

MM T-1 explained that Hemming was planning to

met Morino the following morning at the Trio Diner, then

go to the residence at 2954 Southwest 16th Terrace with

Morino, and forcibly take the arms Morino had at that

residence. While Hemming's men detained Morino, Hemming

would go to Morino's house and steal the remainder of the

arms at that location.* m)

- 2.

NW 53074 DooId: 32308506 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Re: Intercontinental Penetration Forces

MM T-1, on June 20, 1963, advised that

Roy Hargraves borrowed a station wagon, and Hemming

arranged for a Cuban national in Miami, name unknown,

to stand by and be available to drive this car to

Morino's house to take away the weapons to be stolen

by Hemming. Hemming also arranged for Anselmo Aliegro,

JI. to drive Hemming around in Aliegro's car. &>u)

a Russian not his ached Toboney o mache

ming planned to se

MIAmI F/a..

On June 19, 1963, Hargraves, Steve Wilson,

Richard Watley and Joe Gárman met Morino at the Trio

Diner at about 8:15 p.m

Watley and Morino departed

from there in Morino's automobile and went to 2954

Southwest 16th Terrace/, the residence of Carlos Zarraga.

"Hargraves,

Wilson and Garman followed a short distance

away in a

station wagon. They all arrived at Zarraga's

residence at about the same time. Hemming and Aliegro

arrived later, in Aliegro's car, and waited outside

until Garman, from inside the house, gave the signal

that all was clear.

Then, Hemming entered the house and found

that Watley, Wilson, Hargraves and Garman had drawn

their guns on Morino, Zarraga, two other unidentified

Cubans, and Zarraga's wife and children. Zarraga's

first impression was that Herming and his associates were

policemen. @> (M)

Thereafter, Hemming and Watley brought Zarraga

and Morino into the garage and severely threatened them,

while the other members of Herming's group raided the

house and took out uniforms, ammunition magazines, guns

of miscellaneous types, and one complete .50 caliber

machine gun. (* )(1)

3 .

Fla

NW 53074 DooId: 32308506 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Re:

Intercontinental Penetration Forces

Herming got in a discussion with Zartaga andy

the two other Cubans, and Zarraga claimed he was selling!

the guns for Morino and had nothing to do with Morino

personally. Hemming then had a change of heart, decidedr

to give all the guns and equipment back to Zarraga,

and

then ordered his men to unload the station wagon and

123.97 dat

bring all the materiel back into the house.

Hemming's

men then left with Morino, to go to Morino's house and

steal the weapons there.

During this entire time, Morino

was under the guns of Hemming's men, who threatened to

shoot him if he tried to escape or obtain help.

Hemming

stayed at Zarraga's house for about another half hour,

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL.

/

MEMBER OF SUBIECT ORGANIZATION

and Allegro went back to Zarraga's house, and ascertained

that Hemming's men had not returned there.

They then

went to Hargrave's house, and then to Hemming's residence,

following which they returned to Morino's place. When

they were still about four blocks from Morino's house,

they were stopped by United States Customs Agents, searched,

and then released. (%)MI

Hemming and Aliegro then returned to Zarraga's

house again, and found the house was being processed by

Miami police officers and United States Customs Agents.

Zarraga explained to Herming that he had removed the .50

caliber machine gun before the police had arrived, but

that the police had confiscated the small Russian machine

gun given to him by Herming.

Hemming then found out that

states customs agents. an)

had been arrested by United

Information, as it was received from MM T-1,

was furnished to Mr. Wallace Shanley, Chief, Customs Port

Investigators, Miami, Florida.

minor E13

On June 20, 1963, Mr. Shanley advised that Roy

Hargraves, 4170 Southwest 8th

- Street, Joseph Garman,

128 Southwest 8th Street, Justin)Wilson and James Lewis,

"no"known address,

NW 53074 DooId: 32308506

Page 6

---

