# docid-32333131

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90104-10429

HQ

92-2940-287

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/07/1961

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

V9.1

DocId: 32333131 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

ĐATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM N3'10 .

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2940)

DATE: 11/7/61

FROM

-SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226.

. Sub 2)

JUNE

SUBJECT:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00 - Pittsburgh)

rebuairtel to Pittsburgh, 10/31/01, stressing the necessity

Cor developing additional highly confidential sources to

penetrate LA ROCCA's activities in line with LA ROCCA having

been designated the "Big Boss" while national top hoodlum,

VITO GENOVESE, is in jail.

At the present time this office has Mutt coverage on LA ROCCA's

private office at the North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, but due to the infrequency

of his visits to his office it is believed that additional

technical coverage of his residence might be more productive.

Sources and informants agree that LA ROCCA has no other

established offices or meeting places and it is possible

that his residence may be the scene of decisions affecting

major criminal activities.

In connection with the survey of LA ROCCA's residence for the

purpose of effecting technical coverage, the following was

ascertained:

Subject owns and occupies a stone mansion situated in a wooded

tract of land at 900 Ingomar Road, Ingomar, Pa., a suburb

of Pittsburgh, which is located at the corner of Ingomar Road

and Brant Avenue.

The house faces on Ingomar Road and is

set back from this road at an approximate distance of 275 feet

while the driveway enters off Brant Avenue and runs for an

approximate distance of 125 feet from inie arenue te the houd.

At the present time these premises are occupied by LA ROCCA,

his wife, and a maid and yardman who are employed full time

and are loval to the subject.

- Bureau (RM)

Pittsburgh

HLW/vmm

(5)

SII-X3

92-2940-287

22 NO 31 1961

det.

11-15.

DocId: 32333131 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: •11-14-2017

PG 92-226 Sub 2

Subject has private residence service, telephone number

Forest 4-5296. This service consists

of one main telephone

instrument, one wall phone extension, and one portable

(phone-jack) extension, all instruments being of the 500

series and serviced by a single twist-pair drop line.

The instruments are serviced by Aerial Cable 6, Pair 198,

which is lead sheathed and egressed from the Forest Central

Office Exchange into the immediate neighborhood.

The working

appearance of Pair 198 appears in an outside terminal box

_ attached to pole 6/3 which is located on Brant Avenue and

directly across the street from subject's driveway.

working appearance Pair 198 is fitted into a two inch pipe

which goes underground and into subject's residence.

this connection subject's power lines also appear on the

at a distance of 2,212 wire-feet from pole 6/3. This is

the

only multiple of this Pair.

All known ways and means of establishing technical coverage

have been carefully considered.

In consideration of all

aspects of technical coverage involving the technical

problems, security consideration and investigative advantages,

the following conclusions have been reached:

1.

Although no information has been developed to indicate

that subject is actually using his residence for activities

relating to personal contacts, it would appear that he

considers his residence to be secure and might conduct other

activities

there, particularly in regards to telephone

contacts.

2. Inasmuch as the power and phone lines servicing his

residence are engressed into his residence through

underground

conduits from pole 6/3, which is an estimated distance of 125

feet from his residence, it would be a major problem to

install additional underground wires for conventional microphone

coverage..

3.

The use of the RFMT unit is not feasible since the lead

aerial cable cannot be broken between the working appearance

and the multiple and the multiple is located 2,212 wires

feet from the working appearance.

2

DocId: 32333131 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ĐATE: "11-14-2017

PG 92-226 Sub 2

4. The

use of the SPMT unit, although feasible, necessitates

looping Pair 198 through a monitoring plant which must be

located between subject's instrument and the Central Office.

Such an arrangement would require a local monitoring plant

and additional monietoring personnel.

Due to the nature of the steel and cut-stone construction

of subject's residence and the distance between his residence

and a point considered to be secure for installing

• the Vega

receiver, it is believed that the Mutt's range would be

reduced to the extent that the signal would be lost.

In view of the above factors the following proposals are

being made:

1.

A tesur be initiated immediately with the bridge being

made at the multiple on pole 5/6.

appear to be secure due to the distance away from subject's

residence, it can be initiated immediately and monitoring

would be done at the Pittsburgh Office control plant. It

is suggested that this tesur be maintained for a period of

several weeks during which interim an evaluation could be

made as to whether the

subject utilizes his residence in the

operation of his activities and thereby justifying the need

for additional technical coverage at his residence.

2.

During this interim arrangements would be made to effect

SPMT or mictel coverage if it is ascertained that additional

technical coverage of subject's residence would be warranted.

In regards to the use of

would be necessary to obtain moniotiring facilities in

proximity of pole 6/3 or pole 5/6 in order to 100p Pair 198

wires into subject's residence by way of his phone conduit.

In connection with the latter the local telephone company's

cooperation would be solicited and through the local

exchange's test center trouble would be thrown on subject's

line and maintained until the subject would make a formal

complaint to the company who would in turn so notify the

sound trained agents

The sound trained agents, using the

company's truck, would proceed to the subject's

residence

3

DooId:32333131 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

I under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: -11-14-2017

PG 92-226 Sub ?

and, under a pretext of trouble-shooting, would survey subject's

telephone facilities.

At a predetermined time the test

center would then remove the trouble to indicate that the

surveying agents had located the trouble. Several days later

the test center would again throw trouble on the subject's

line and

the agents would then make it known that the old

twist pair drop line would have to be replaced.

Thereafter,

this line would

be replaced with a four conductor line to

be installed by the agents in conjunction with telephone

company personnel who would be selected by the Special

Agent's office.

While this line change was being made a

modified 500 series instrument that had been previously

modified would be substituted for mictel coverage..

Inasmuch

as the subject is security conscious it is believed that this

method of penetrating his residence could be accomplished.

Bureau authority is requested to immediately initiate tesur

, coverage.

SUBJECT HAS BEEN ARRESTED FOR CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS;

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

DocId: 32333131

Page

---

