# docid-32424975

## Page 1

Date : 07/14/98

Page : 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

JCS

RECORD NUMBER: 202-10001-10244

RECORDS SERIES : JEK LIBRARY SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: DOC 245

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017-11

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : JCS

FROM : MAXWELL TAYLOR

TO : THE PRESIDENT

TITLE

: JCSM-910-62 STATUS OF READINESS FOR THE CUBA OPERATION

DATE : 11/16/62

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS : CUBA OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

EXEMPT PER E:0, 13526

SEC 3.3(b) 5Qx5

MAR

2016

DATE EXEMPTED:

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 31GEC2037

OKAY TO RELEASE AS REDACTED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214 DocId: 32424975 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DOD

Weir

/VL K-93-76

THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF

WASHINGION 28D.0

-The Depariment of State has no objection to the

release or declassification of this document in full

under the provisions of the JEK Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (PL102-526)

Reviewed oh

419/96 гр

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

•IDP SECRET

- 75-98

JCSM-910-62

Rouenha, 6, 1962

GIAHAS NO OBJECTION T

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR.

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMEND

czyas can

Subject: Status of Readiness for the Cuban Operation (C)

1. The Joint Chiefs of Staff ate glad to report that our Armed Forces

are in an optimum posture to execute CINCLANT OPLANS 312-62. (Air

Attack in Cuba) and 316-62 (Invasion of Cuba). We are not only ready to

take any action you may order in Cuba, we are also in an excellent.

condition world-wide to counter any Soviet military response to such action.

Our status of readiness includes:

a. SAC is maintaining 1/8 airborne alert and has implemented

its force dispersal plan. An increased SIOP generation rate- - 1, 456

aircraft and 355 missiles, including 80 POLARIS missiles--is being

maintained.

6X0)

ГА:

b. Continental Air Defense Command interceptor forces have

occupied their wartime dispersal bases and are partially deployed at

increased alert (about 1/3). Special defensive measures have been

taken to protect the Southeast, with particular attention to Florida.

C. Air forces involved in CINCLANT OPLAN 312-62 in daylight

hours can respond for selective attack in graduated increments from

two to twelve hours, according to the application of force desired.

d. Amphibious and assault forces are at a high state of readiness,

providing a seven-day reaction capability for CINCLANT OPLAN

316-62 following the air strike (CINCLANT OPLAN 312-62), with

accelerated introduction of follow-on forces.

e. All naval units are in a high state of readiness.

2. In response to your request, we have studied the need for augmenta-

tion of forces for CINCLANT OPLAN 316-62 and have concluded that while

the forces originally included in the plan are probably adequate, it would

be prudent te carmark additional forces as a ready reserve for the

Copy

ofe

9 Copies each

OLDI

2 pages series _ *A"

Reproduction of this, document in whole

or in part is proticited except with

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

REGRADING: DOD DTR 5200.10

DOES NOTIAPPLY

permission of the issuing office.

00cau5

1701214 3D0011:92121973 87248-2

---

