# docid-32129443

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ДДT50411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results:

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10035-10277

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3318

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TO : LEG, MX

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 04/21/1964

PAGES

2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, POST-RE, TRA, TRIP TO MX 9/26/63, ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:06/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK.

1/1

---

## Page 2

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot 01 1992 719°

11-71-2017

ALE INCORNA

TION CONTAINED

MEXICAS

EXCEPT HAS

WASSIFIED

Lu Strume

OTHERWIS

CIA HAS NO DEJECTION TO

*90/OR,

1 - Belmont

I fail foc

!.*!

Sullivan

Branigan

Lenihan

IFK.

- Goble

Legal

Attache,

(105-3702)

Mexico City

4/21/64

Director, Fat

(105-82555)

Nairtel

CONFDONNE

-HARVEY

OSWALO

• R - CUBA

5/1/73

Classifed

4.9803 120/82

Declassify

DADR 35:5FK

Reurlets 3/16/64 and 4/1/54, Bulet 3/25/64 and

4/2/64.

Enclosed are two coples of a letterhead memorandum

classified "Secret" dated 4/10/64, concerning captioned

no

individuale

Soclassification

One copy of this memorandum is enclosed for Dallas

and one copy is enclosed for New York.

The enclosed memorandun is the same as the one

submitted by you with your letter of 3/16/52.

It was amended

to include the information furnished by you in your letter of

4/1/64 and also to include the Information In referenced

Exem-t

New York airtel. for your information, this memorandun has

Đạt

already been disseminated to the President's Conmission and

to Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

As you know, the information received from

1964

and 1-19

concerning the comments and speculations of

HEX 180 (4)

Elizabeth Catlett Wora,

in itself, raises pertinent

Stions•

.."

There is a need to obtain further details fron Mora.

APR 2

Mora has commented that the Communist Party (CP) os

Mexico was

interested in obtaining all avallable information cu

Oswald's trip to Mexico and concerning how nuch Amerlean

authorities knew about this. Although you have advised that

no confirmation of this information has been received from any

other sources, you are advised to restate this in your next

lotterhead memorandun concerning Mora and set forth specificalli

the number of sources who have been contacted and appropriate:

comments concerning then, not only as to their reliability, but

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

about the CP oi Merico.

Casper.

Callahan -

31-105

Conrad

Enclosures

CU

19

DeLoach -

APR 2211964-

Evans _

1 • Dallas

1100510401)

Gale

(enclosure)

Rosen

_I - New fork

10538431) (Enclosure

Hicken

Sullivan.

Tavel -

• Trotter

f11 • Foreign

saison Unit (Route through for review)

Tele. Room

Holmes _4

Gandy

Docta: 321294451 ge

TELETYPE UNIT

Der 080:

'SEE NOTE PAGE TIO

---

## Page 3

Rel

Hot

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

11-14-2017

Better to Mexico City

Re:- LED HARVEY OSWALD

105-82555

lora has also advised that tary lousse canacho, nee

latterson, knew oswald while he was in Russia, a creater detest

from More

on this point is extremely pertinent

have Canacho questioned in Bussia about what she knows of

Oswald and his activities while theres

и)

Fiaslly, Hora has furnished some information on

oswald's visit to

the Cuban Embassy in Venico City We

should determine all lora knows

about this visit

and where

she obteined her information.

This matter must be pursued in depth until we have

fully explored and exhausted all of Mora's information.

questions, which, the origins. intormation received trom mora

hase raised, cannot be left unanswered and Mik-18 and MIX-191 * /4

should be made fully aware of this.

of course, in receiving

further infornation from Mora, care must be taken to distinguish

that information which 19 speculation and belief on Mora's part

that which 1s factual.

(0(4)

Advise immediately whether 1c-18 and vIx 19 have.

recontacted Mora for the two or three day period as plannedd

11 so, promptly furnish letterhead menorendum sultate for

dissemiastion.

NOTE:

The original letterhead memorandum was amended to

include additional data received from Mexico City and New York

in response to rebuiet The information fron More comes to

us via 1X-18 and MEX-19 Mora has been 111 and these sources

have been unable to contact her to obtain further details.

They anticipated

spending a few days with her in the first

half of April; 1964d

COANDENTIAL

DocId: 32129443 Page 3

---

