# docid-32195660

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10264-10153

RECORD SERIES: MO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 89-25-17

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-15-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DRAUT. WOODSON E.

TO:

SAC. MO

TITLE:

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES: 15

SUBJECT:

JFK, SUSP, INDIVIDUALS WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/25/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HW 53932

DooId:32195660

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

'OPTIONALDORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION.

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

NMENT

Memorandum

SAC, MOBILE (89-25)

SA WOODSON E. DRAUT

ALL INFORMATICA BON 71/26/63

HEnzi.

MCLASSITED

D6: 11-2-93 3N 9803 R00/iSR

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

AKFA

The following investigation was conducted at

Montgomery, Ala

on 11/22/63:

Potential Bombing Suspects:

Investigation during the mid-afternoon 11/22/63,

ascertained that JAMES D. YORK, GEORGE W. SEXTON, JAMES M.

HALL, CHARLES J.

WILKINSON, J.B. JURIS, and LEROY L. DUCKER

were all in Montgomery, Ala. or vicinity at that time,

working on their respective jobs

This was ascertained

through contacts with supervisory personnel of their

respective employers who had personal cognizance of the

presence of those men on the jobs on that day.

WILLIAM KYLE LIVINGSTON, JR. was personally

observed at his residence at 317 Broadway, Chisholm,

Montgomery, Ala, at 4:02 p.m.

An unidentified secretary at National Services,

Inc.; Montgomery, Ala., a public relations, advertising:

and printing firm, advised that ASA EARL CARTER left

Montgomery on 11/21/63 to go to Birmingham,

Ala. to work

there for the 2 days of 11/21-22/03 and would probably

go from there to his residence near Anniston, Ala. This

Hotel in Birmingham.

furnished to the Birmingham Office on the morning of

11/23/63:

Members of UKA, Inc., KKKK

MO 107-C(RAC) advised late on 11/22/63 thatha

total of 20 persons attended the meeting of LAWRENCE Lodge

6I0, UKA; Inc., KKKK at Montgomery, Ala.

this meetine continued to approxim tely gile advised that

Informant

did not have the identities of all of those present, but

indicated that the only notable absences, that 1e persons

25-11

SEARCHED

VDEXER

WED/1fC

SERIALIZED

FLED PON

(3)

NOV

FBI - MOBILE

- 1W 52932 DocId: 32195660 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MO 89-25

considered to have any significant potential for violence,

were HENRY ALEXANDER and ROBERT L. BELL, JR.

MO 107-C (RAC.)

and MO 108-C(RAC) have been given the assignment of ascertaining

the whereabouts of those two individuals, and it is expected

that the results of their inquiries will

be avalable shortly

MO 104-C(RAC) advised that approximately 25 persons

attended a meeting of Confederate Den 11, UKA, Inc.

KKKK'

at prättville, Ala., also on the night of 11/21/63.

Infor-

mant stated that this meeting lasted until approximately

9:30 p.m.This informant also had difficulty recalling

the identities of all persons present,

but stated that

among those known to him to have some possible potential

for violence who were absent, included LEROY LE DUCKER,

HOWARD HUDSON, JOHN A. KELLEY,

and ROBERT MOSELEY.

This

informant also stated that RALPH ROTON, who is technically

a member of Den l1, was absent. He said it was remarked

that he was in the city of Montgomery, however, contacting

police personnel in connection with the theft of clothing

from his

automobile,

Ihis informant stated that it was remarked at the

meeting that ROBERT M. SHELTON has been attempting to visit

Montgomery and that it was previously hoped that he woula

be able to make the meeting on 11/21/63, but that he could

the do trial via (SitioN) has been out of tom on

business this week.

MO 104-C(RẮC) and MO 79-C(RẠC) were given the

assignment of attempting to ascertain the whereabouts of

KELLEY, HUDSON and MOSELEY. It is noted that DUCKER was

eliminated in the first section of this memo!

Racial Extremists

MO 104 C(RAC) personally observed JOHN CROMMELIN

Retired U.S. Navy. Admiral,

at his Harrogate Springs estate

on the afternoon of 11/22/63.

The Informant said he also

observed from a distance,

a man he believed to be

"PETER

XAVIER:

He said that he could not be positive about the

identirication of XAVIER but is fairly sure, that the person

he saw was XAVIER

2

MW 53932 DocId:32195660 Page: 3

---

## Page 4

MO: 89-25

In any matter of this type it should be noted that:

RALPH R. ROTON

possibly ROTEN 1424 Carol Circle,

Fairfield,

Ala.

member of Den 11, UKA, Is a pilot and maybe the owner

of a private aircraft:

Racial Informant Contacts

MO 104-C(RAC) and MO 107-C(RAC) were contacted e

on: 11/22/63.

MO 79-0 (RAC), MO 108-0 (RAC), MO 23-C (RAC), MO 87-PCI(RAC)

and MO 96-PCI(RAC) were all contacted on 11/23/63.

had any info of an affirmative nature pertaining to the

assassination of Pres. KENNEDY

Normal contacts with informants will be maintained

With respect to hate group members and own racial extremists

Any affirmative leads or any affirmative data developed will

be given Immediate handling.

NH. 50932 DecI

60

Page, 44

:5

---

## Page 5

TO

FROM*

SUBJECT:

@- OPTIONAL-FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAT 1802 BOLTON

GSA GEN. 'REG - NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SAC, MOBILE (89-25)

033 70140/06/63

ICO

SA WOODSON E. DRAUT

111-2-93 3 9803.200/152

ASSASSIMILTON OF PRESIDENT JOHN P. KENNEDY (OFI)

The following Investigation was conducted at

Montgonery, Ala. on 11/22/63:

Potential: Bombing Suspects:

Investigation during the mid-afternoon 11/22/63,

ascertained that JAMES D. YORK, GEORGE W. SEXTON, JAMES M.

WerE, CHARLES J, WILKINSON, J.B. JURIS, ond LEROY L, DUCKER

all in Montgomery, Ala, or vicinity at that time,

working on their respective joke

This was ascertained

through contaets with supervisory personnel of their

respective employers who had personal cognizance of the

presence of those men on the jobs on that day

WILLIAN KYLE LIVINGSTON, JR, was personally

observed at his residence at 317 Broadway, Chisholm,

Montgomery, Ala. at 4:02 p.m.

An unidentified secretary at National Services,

Ine., Montgomery, Ala., a public relations, advertising

and printing firm, advised that ASA EARL CARTER left

Montgomery on 11/21/63 to go to Birminghem, Ala. to work

there for the 2 days of 11/21-22/63 and would probably

go from there to his residence near Anniston, Ala. This

person advised that CARTER normally stays at the Bankhead

Hotel in Birmingham

This information was telephonically

furnished to the Birmingham Office on the morning of

11/23/63.

Nembers. of UKA, Inc., KKKK

25-

*MO 107-C(RAC) advised late on

11/22/63 thatha

total of 20 persons attended the meeting of LAWRENCE Lodge

610, UKA, Ine, KKKK at Montgomery, Ala. He advised that

meeting continued to agproximately 9:40p.m.

Informant

did not have the identities of all of those present, but

indicated that the only notable absences,

that is, persons

SEARCHED ......

INDEXED

WED

Afc

SERIALIZED

-NOW 2

, 19

FBI - MOBILE

HH 53932

'DogId: 32195660

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MO.89-25

considered to have any significant potential, ror violence,

were HENRY AZEXANDER and ROBERT, L. BELL, JR. NO 107-C(RAC)

and MO: 108-C (RAC)Phave beën given the assignment of ascertalning

the whereabouts of chose two individuals, and it 1s expected:

that the results of thelr inquiries will be avalable shortly

MO 104-C(RAC) aavised that approximately 25 persons

attended a meeting of Confederate Den 11, UKA,

Inc. kkKk

at Prattviile, Ala, also on the night of 11/21/63. Infor-

mant stated that this meeting lasted until approximately

9:30 p.m..

the identitred onaomant nao pradeat ouu ee ted tl 1n

among those known to him to have some possible potential

for violence who were absent, included LEROY L. DUCKER,

HOWARD HUDSON, JOHN A. KELLEY, and ROBERT MOSELEY. This

informant aiso stated that RALPH ROTON, who 1s, technically

that he ves ien the cuer of lohesome yaaever rentaeas

police personnel in connection with the theft of clothing

"from his automobile.

This informant stated that it was remarked at the

meeting that ROBERT M. SHELTON has been attempting to visit

Montgomery and that it was previously hoped that he would

be able to make the meeting on 11/21/63, but that he couza.

nọt do this.

The remark was made by J.B. JURLS that

the Imperlai wizard (SHELTON) has been out of town on

business this week.

MO 104-C(RAC) and MO 79-C(RAC) were given the

assignment of attempting to ascertain the whereabouts of

KELLEY, HUDSON and MOSELEY.

eliminated In the first section of this memo.

It is noted that DUCKER waS

Racial Extrenists

MO 104-C(RAC) personally observed JOHN CROMMELIN,

Retired U.S. Navy Admiral, at his Harrogate Springs estate:

on the afternoon of 11/22/63. The Informant said he also

observed from a distance, a man he belleved to be PETER

XAVIER®

He said that he could not be positive about the

identirication of XAVIER but is fairly sure that the person

he

saw was XAVIER

:2

IN 53930. DocId:32195660,

Paqe: 6

---

## Page 7

MO: 89-25

In any matter of this type it should be noted that

RALPH R.

ROTON,

(possibly ROTEN)s

1424 Carol Circle, Fairfield;

Ala., member of Den 11, UKA, 15

a pilot. and maybe the owner

of a private aircraft.

Racial Informant Contacts

on 11/22/30 104-C(nAC) and NO 107-C(RAC) vere contacted

MO 79-C(RAC), MO 108-C(RAC), MO 23-0 (RAC). MO 87-PCI (RAC)

and MO 96-PCI(RAC) were all contacted

on 11/23/63

None."

had any info of an affirmative nature pertaining to the

assassination of Pres. KENNEDY

Normal contacts with informants will be maintained,

with respect to hate group members andown racial extremists.

Any affirmative leads or any affirmative data developed will

be given immediate handling

HTH 53932

DocEd: 32195660 Page

---

## Page 8

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SAC, MOBILE: (89-25)

DATE

TOM CONY AI35/63

HCLASSIFIED

SA WOODSON E. DRAUT

b4-11-2-93 BX 9503 pOD/KSl

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

AKFA "

The following investigation was conducted at

Montgomery, Ala. on 11/22/63:

Potential Bombing Suspects:

Investigation during the mid-afternoon 11/22/63,

ascertained that JAMES D. YORK, GEORGE W. SEXTON, JAMES M.

HALL, CHARLES J. WILKINSON, J.B. JURLS, and LEROY L. DUCKER

were all In Montgonery, Ala, or vicinity at that time,

working on their respective jots. This was ascertained

through contacts with supervisory personnel of their

respective employers who had personal cognizance of the

presence of those men on the jobs on that day.

WILLIAM KYLE LIVINGSTON, JR. was personally

observed at his residence at 317 Broadway:, Chisholm,

Montgomery, Ala. at 4:02 p.m.

An unidentified secretary at National Services:

Inc., Montgomery,

Ala., a public relations, advertising

and printing firm, advised that ASA EARL CARTER left

Montgomery on 11/21/63 to go to Birmingham, Ala.

to work

there for the 2 days of 11/21-22/63 and would probably

Hotel in Birmingham.

This information was telephonically

furnished to the Birmingham Office on the

morning: of

11/23/63.

Nembers of UKA, Inc., KKKK

- 25-11

MO 107-C(RAC) advised late on 11/22/63 thatha

total of 20 persons attended the meeting of LAWRENCE Lodge

610g

UKA, Ing., KKKK at Montgomery, Ala. He advised that

this meeting continued to approximately 9:40 p.n.

Informant

did not have the identities of all of those present, but

indicated that the only notable absences,

• that 1s, persons

SEARCHED

....INDEXED

WED/1

SERIALIZED

NOV 2

FBI - MOBILE

WH 53932 DocId: 32195660

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NO 89-25

considered to have any significant potential for violence,

were HENRY ALEXANDER and ROBERT L. BELL, JR. MO 107-C (RAC)

and MO' 108-C (RAC) have been given the assignment of ascertaining

the.:

whereabouts or those two individuals, and 101s

expected

that the results of their inquiries will be avalable shortly

NO 104-C(RAC) advised that approximately 25 persons

mant stated that this meeting lasted until approximately

9:30 p.m. unds informant also had difficulty recalling

the identities of all persons presents but stated that

among those Iown to him to have some possible potentiai

for violence who were absent, Included LEROY L. DUCKER,

HOWARD HUDSON, JOHN A, KELERY, and ROBERT MOSELY. This

informant also stated that RALPH ROTON who is technically

a member of Den 11,

was absent.

He said it was remarked

that he was in the city of Montgomery, however,

contacting

police personnel in connection with the theft of clothing

from his automobile:

This informant stated that it

was remarked at the

meeting that ROBERTM. SHELTON has been attempting to visit

not do this.

The remark was made by J.B. JURLS that

the Imperial wizard (SHELTON) has been out of town on

business this week:

MO 104-C (RAC) and MO 79-C(RAC) were given the

assigment of attempting to ascertain the whereabouts of

KELLEY,

HUDSON and MOSELEY.

It is noted that DUCKeR was

eliminated in the first section of this memo

Racial Extremists

MO 104-C(RAC) personally observed JOHN CROMMELIN

Retired U.S. Navy Admiral, at his Harrogate Springs estate

on the afternoon of 11/22/63. The Informant said he also

observed from a distance, a man he belleved to be PETER.

KAVLER.

He said that he could not be positive about the

identification of XAVIER buc is fairly sure that the person

he saw was XAVIER:

2

IN 53932г DocId:921956605

Page

---

## Page 10

MO 89-25

In any matter of this type it should be noted that

RALPH R.

ROTON,

(possibly ROTEN), 1424 Carol Circle, Fairfield,

A1a.8

member of Den 11, UKA, is a pilot and maybe the owner

of a private aircraft.

Racial Informant Contacts

on 1/22/630 10%-C(RAC) and M0: 107-C (RAC) were contacted

MO. 79-C (RAC),

MO 108-C(RAC), NO 23-C (RAC) MO 87-PCI (RAC)

and MO 96-PCI(RÁC) were ail contacted on 11/23/63.

had any info of an affirmative nature pertaining to the

assassination off Pres. KENNEDY

Normal contacts with Informants will be maintained

with respect to hate group members andinown racial extremists

Any affirmative leads or any affirmative data developed will

be given immediate handling.

539

60

Pane

---

