# docid-32304192

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10285-10204

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-212749-2

Released under the John

F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/29/1971

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: EIA, ASSOC, PLOT, INVASION, HAITI, ARRESTS, MED/PERS HIST

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Confidential

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/06/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NH 53025 DocId:32304192 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

Fore MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR 141 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOV

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

SUBJECT:

DATE:

4/29/71

SAC, MIAMI (105-1597) (P)

11-19-94.

Classified hy Sp8 mAC /ISR

ALLEGED

PLOT TO INVADE HAITI

Declassify on:

OADR

IS - HAITI

(JFK)

Re Tampa letter and lAN i/ll and Bureau letter

Ц

3/24/71.

Sources of the Miami Office knowlédgeable in

Haitian and Cuban revolutionary matters have furnished

no information regarding any current activity on the part

of EDWARD I

ARTHUR Or CLEMENT BENOIT in the Miami area.

Blunde

FLA

ARTHUR was previously subject of Mianil closed

file 134-1569, 00: ATLANTA.

Miami airtel to Atlanta

dated 11/4/68 captioned "EDWARD IVANWARTHUR",

PSI"

reflected that ARTHUR was interviewed in connection with

the so-called plot to overthrow the Haitian Government

It was noted that he has a long arrest record

which indicates charges of armed robbery, extortion,

assault and battery, burglary, and blackmail, most of

which were dismissed or have suspended sentences.

The

. Columbus, Ohio Police Department record had comments

regarding ARTHUR some of which are as follows:

LA.

NERSIN

ExCE

OTHEAMI

"Good looking lad, attracts women easily,

spent time at Lima State Hospital for the Insane, has split

personality.• • his speciality is 'rolling queers'

he lives with known queers".

Bureau (RM)

2

- San Juan (RM)

2

- Tampa (RM)

3

- Miami (1 - 105-1597)

(1- 134-1569)

(1 - 105-7513)

JPM:rag

(9)

REC 16

105-212749

_copies made

TBIHQ bY

1120178

NO MAY 3

1971

5465

41>

L 4191

MAY 17 1970

5010-108-01

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NAT. IN

NH 53025

DooId: 32304192

Page 2

UNRECORDRO CURE

FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1597

CLEMENTNBENOIT is subject of Miami Closed Ille

105-7513. He was last known to be in the Miami area in

1964 and in 1964 moved to Santurce, Puerto Rico where he

was last known to be residing.

A review of referenced LHM reflects that most

of the material relates to events that are several years

old. Much of it is set out in the newspaper articles

published by MIKE WALES and these, of course, are a matter

of public record.

HAITI

The only pertinent information which appears

to be current is that relating to an alleged plan to invade

Haiti directed by CLEMENT BENOIT with the help of EDWARD

ARTHUR. No information has been received by the Miami

Office which would verify in any way that such a plan is

taking place in this area.

with Haitian exiles in the Miami area, advised that he knew

of no current activity on the part of EDWARD ARTHUR. He

further stated that as far as he knows CLEMENT BENOIT was

living in either Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or

Mexico, and might be teaching school in any of these places.

"The source was alerted to furnish any information which

might come to his

attention regarding the activities of

BENOIT Or ARTHUR.

In view of the above, Miami recommends the

following:

1. Referenced Tampa letter and LEM dated 3/11/71

not be disseminated.

2. Miami should contact INS, Miami to determine

any information in their possession regarding the present

-2-

HH 53025

DooId: 32304192

Page 3

---

