# docid-32324459

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90026-10193

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 166-529-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/04/1963

34

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

HARRY HALL

THEODORE LIPSON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32321459

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 166-65

2

Based primarily upon information from HARRY HALL.

and resultant investigation by police officers and District

attorney investigators, Officer MURPHY On December 20, 1902,

submitted an affidavit

to the Municipal Court of Los Angeles.

Judicial District in support of and in petition for a search

warrant..

In his affidavit MURPHY

alleged that there was

reasonable cause to believe that "SUGAR" BROWN, also known

as I. Todd Brown and others, in certain premises located within

Los Angeles County, or on the persons of BROWN and the others

named in the affidavit possessed certain personal property, to

wit:

"Bookmaking paraphernalia including "markers', 'owe

sheets',

"top sheets', recordations of bettors,

betting

tabulations, telephone numbers and addresses

of agents, runners, clerks, bettors, informants;

telephone numbers and addresses of back-rooms and

betting parlors, tabulating machines, bookkeeping

machines, Iine sheets, betting line records, devices

for recording wagers.

Subsequently, MURPHY has learned that the true name

of "SUGAR" BROWN IS THEODORE LIPSON.

To support the issuance

of a search warrant, MURPHY alleged

in his affidavit that he

had received information from a reliable confidentail infor-

mant that a large Eastern bookmaking syndicate had started

bookmaking operations in the Los Angeles area during the

previous several months and that this operation employed

of the United States. According to his confidential information,

MURPHY alleged that these persons were brought to Los Angeles

for the specific purpose of organizing a nation-wide gambling

operation involving large amounts of money, possibly in excess

of $250,000.00 per week.

He alleged that the gambling operation

included, but was not limited to, the transmitting of excessive

wagers from this locality to lay-off spots in other states of

this country, in addition to handling local wagers.

MURPHY's affidavit said that the confidential infor-

mant named T. TODD BROWN as a nationally known bookmaking

operator, sent to Los Angeles by unknown parties to head the

-4-

DocId: 32324459 Page 2

---

