# docid-32556685

## Page 1

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

6/24/65

Transmit the following in -

Vi

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-350 SUB L)

GUS

AR

SLEX, aka

"JUNE"

The following information was obtained from

CG 6502-C on the indicated dates. It is noted that information

from this source is monitored and reviewed on a daily

basis and pertinent information is expeditiously handled.

It is noted that since the departure of ALEX's

paramour, SUZANNE FUEGER, for the trip to visit her mother

in Germany, there has been a minimum of activity in the

apartment.

In the past when ALEX has been in the apartment

alone for any length of time he has had frequent visitors,

however,

on this occasion

it seems that the visitors are

at a minimum and conversation as well.

appear before the Federal Grand Jury in Chicago apparently

has led a considerable effect on ALEX and he has been reported

to be very upset, moody and possibly on the verge of a

nervous breakdown, because of this and the fact that his

mother has been extremely ill and apparently is not expectéd

to live.

LADON

On the morning of May 18, 1965, NATHAN "BUTCH"

is in to visit ALEX and they

which

discussed a card game

took place on the previous night which was ALEX's

usual

Monday night card

game.

GUS said that he had never

seen EDDIE VOGEL as mad as he was over the game.

VOGEL lost a large sum of money.

Apparently

92-3182

Area.

109A

- Bureau (RM)Es:

1

Chicago

EWA : mav

(4)

2: TICUCREG 28

JUN 215 1965

÷ 3!

WheR

Approved:

6

vy

Special Agent in Charge

1965

NW 45679 DooId: 32556685

Page 1

Sent

- M.

Ler -

---

