# docid-32403481

## Page 1

Date: 03/07/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10320-10095

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CIA-OGC FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

f. kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: OSBORN, HOWARD J. DIR. OF SECURITY

THE RECORD

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

MEMO: MAHEU, ROBERT A.

06/24/1966

6

SUBJECTS : MAHEU, ROBERT

CASTRO

OP.

ROSELLI, JOHNNY

GIANCANA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/26/99

COMMENTS

:JFK-M-12 : F2

1999.03.26.15:09:09:106120 : DUPLICATE

= 104-10057-10355 AND 104-10122-10218.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10320-10095

HW 53320

DooId: 32403481

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ConFIDENTIAL

24 June 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR: imputy Director of Central Intelligence

SUBJECT

1N 53320

1. This memorandum is for information only.

2. In August 1960, Mi. Richard M. Bissell approached

Colonel Sheffield Edwards to determine if the Office of Security

had assets that may assist in a sensitive mission requiring

gangster-type action. The mission target waslthe liquidation cr

Fidel Castro.

3. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group

was rade privy to the project. The DCI'was briefed and gave his

approval. Colonel J. C. King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed,

but all details were deliberately concealed from any of the

IMWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Commo personnel partici-

pated in the initial planning stages, but were not witting of the

purpose of the mission.

4. Robert A. Maheu was contacted, briéfed generally on

the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an en-

tree into the gangster elements as the first step toward accom-

plishing the desired goal.

5. Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli

on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. He only knew

him casually through clients, but was given to understand that

he was a high-ranking member of the "syndicate" and controlled

all of the ice-making machines on the Strip. Maheu reasoned

that, if Rosellf was in fact a member of the clan, he undoubtedly

had connections leading into the Cuban gambling interests.

CLASSIFIED BY

8633881999472

EXEMPT FROV

CANTEEL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE DE

!.

TAROS CATEGORY:

§ 5B11). 3)

(ais-lo one or soro)

S 0MH

unquise to consedenteal

contero impossible, insert cale or

real)

039-9n

CONFIDENTIA

Doc1d:32403481

Page 2

---

## Page 3

огрАі

GOMFIBENTIAL

1N 33320

5. Mahou wis asked to approsch Roselli, who knew Maheu

as i porsonal relaticas exccutive handling domestic and foreign

accounts, and till him thit he hid recently been ratained by a

client who represented several international business firms

which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result

of Castro's iction. Thay were convincad that Castro's removal

was the answer to their problem and were willing to pay a price

o1 $150,000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made

clear to Roselli that the U.S. Government was not, and should not,

bacome ware of this oparation.

7. The pitch vas made to Rosalli on 14 Septembor 1950 at

the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City.

His initial reaction wag

to. void getting involved but, through Maheu's persuasion, he

agreed to introduce him to a friend, Sam Gold, who knew the

"Cuban crowd. " Roselli made it clear he did not want any money

or his purt and balieved Sim would feel the same way. Neithe

of these individuals westever paid out of Agency funds

8. During the weck of 25 September, Miheu was introduced

to Sam iho was staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.

Is initial imprission o! San was that of a hird, uncouth indi-

vidusl who looked and acted like cornion run-of-the-mill hopd..

lum. However, his living accommodations at the hotel belied-

this i did the tact that Male leaver we was were perioding

with Sam avane and Miami.

with Sam and Joe, who was identified to him as a courier operating

between Hivana and Miami, that he saw photographs of both of

these individuals in the Sunday supplemental "Parade." They

vere identified as Momo Salvatore Giancina and Santos Trafficant,

respectively. Both were on the list of the Attorney General's

ten most-wanied men. The former was described as the Chicago

chieftain of the Cosa Nostra and successor to Al Capone, and the

latter, the Cosa Nostra boss of Cuban operations. Maheu called

this office immediately upon ascertaining

this information.

9. In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing

this mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms but.

if he could be furnished with some type of potent pill, that could

CLASSIFIEC BX O6 3348-

12120YZE

ExEMPt Fi

SCHEDULE GE

WIL DECLASSIFICATION

IT GON CATEGORY:

§ 5811).

AUivi

'! (rondo one or moro)

•LEY LECLASEIFICA ON

davirquaded to con Erlantra

Doc1d:32403481 Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

25070

---

## Page 4

HIH

53320

TO THEY

NFIDENTI

be placed in Castro's food or drin!:, it would be a much more

effective operation. Sam indicated that he had a prospective

nominee in the persor?of Juan Orta, a Cuban official who had

been receiving kickbick payments from the gambling interests,

who still had access to Castro and was in a financial bind.

10. Cornelius Roosevelt, thief, TSD, was consulted and

assigned Dr. Raymond Triechler: develop a pill that had the

elements of rapid solubility, high lsthal content, and little or

no traceability. Six of these items were produced and, after

being checked out ior their effectiveness by Dr. Edward M.

Gunn, three pills were ultimately turned qver to Sam for the

mission. Neither ISD nor Dr. Gunn wet briefed on the ultimate

use of the pills.

11. Joe delivered the pills to Orta. After several weeks

of reported attempts, Orta apparently got cold feet and asked out

of the assignment. He suggested another candidate who made

several attempts without success.

i2. Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the

principal officers in the Cuban Exile Junta, had become dis-

affected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and

was willing to handle the mission through his own resources.

13. DI. Verona was approached and jumped at the oppor-

tunity of getting lavolved in an independent operation. He was

told that the private interests-backing the project did not want

the U. S. Government and, particularly the CIA,

to know of their

involvement. (So far as thie Cffice knows, he has never divulged.

his participation in the project to the Agency.)

14. He asked, as a prerequisite to the deal, that he be given

$10, 000 for organizational expenses and requested $1, 000 worth

of communications equipment.

15. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully exploited, as

the project was canceled shortly after the Bay of Pigs episode.

Verona was advised that the offer was withdrawn, and the pills

were retrieved.

CLASSIFIFE BY 0633444029126

EXFMPT FROY CENTE DECLASSIFICATION

3

SCHEDULE S

ALTIPTION CATEGORY:

§Sae

: (a) (circle one or moro)

•-ALLY LECLASSIFIED ON

sowsquadad to confidential

CONEIENTIAL

(unless impossibie, insert dale or ereut)

DooId: 32403481 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

16. Of significant interast was an incident which involved

a request levied by Sim upon Maheu and now shapes up as a

potential flap.J

At the height of the project negotiations, Sam

expressed concarn about his girlfriend, Phyllis

McGuire, who he learned was getting much atten-

tion from Dan Rowan while both were booked at a

HH 53320

Martin coast-to-coast. TV show.) Sam asked Maheu

to put a bug in Rowan's'room to determine the ex-

tent of his intimacy with Miss McGuire. Maheu

tott Sam he didn't have the facilities. whereupon

Sam threatened to leave-Miami to go to Vegas and

take care of the matter himself. In order to pre-

vent this. Maheu contacted Edward Dubois, a

Florida investigator, and asked him to handle the

job.]

Iristead of installing a bug in the room, the

technician placed.a tap.on the phone, which ob-

viously did not serve Sam's purpose.

: I The techni-

cian involved in the assignment was discovered in

the process, arrested, and taken to the Sheriff's

office for questioning. After haleited to reach

Dubois by telephone,! he called Maheu at the -

Kenilworth Hotel,

'Miami, and informed him that

he had been detained by the police. This call was

made in the presence of the Sheriff's personnel.

Subsequently, the Department of Justice an-

nounced its intention to prosecute Maheu along

ivith the technician. On 7 February 1962, the

Director of Security briefed the Attorney Gencral,

Robert Ilennedy, on the circumstances leading up

to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap. At our re-

quest, prosecution was dropped.

CLASSIFIFE BY O6 BBES ISMAITE

EXT.:?T f..

SCHEDUI: !:

DICHISSIFICATION

§ skiine

"GION CATEGORY:

..l (irole one or more)

DocId: 32403481

Page 5

ADITITHAI

---

## Page 6

GURTIDENTIAL

Ereo

HH 53320

Two artiches appeared in th. Chicago press,

one on 16 August 1953, and one on 20 August 1963.

that suggested Sam was working with the Agency.

The first article appeared in the Chicago Sun-Times

written by staif writer, Sandy Smith, and had is its

headline: CIA Sought Giancana Help for Cuba Spying.

It rol:tes that the Agency reportedly was in touch

with Sam in 1959 and requested that he assist them

in obtaining intelligence out of Cuba. It also men-

tioned th. Las Vegas wiretap, which the article

claimed was handled by a "Florida investigative

organization. " It further went on to state that,

upon inguiry of this organization, they stated the

tap was placed at the request of the Central Intelli-

gence Agency. The other article appearad in the

Chicago Daily News, authored by Columnist Tony

Weitrel, and commented that during March 1962,

Sam confronted an FBI Agent who was shadoving

him and said, "Why don't you fellows leave me

alone? I'm one of you!" Sam allegedly stated that,

after Castro's risa in Cuba, a CIA operative con-

tacted him and wanted to know if Sam could do.any-

thing for the Government on the turbulent little island.

Sim said he had friends on both sides, but no clout.

That was it.

17. Roselli was introduced to James P.'O'Connell, of this

Office, who was identified to him as an employea of Robert A.

Maheu, Associates. Over the several months of close contact be-

tween these two individuals, Roselli began to spaculate as to

O'Connell's trus employer and, at one point, stated that he was

convinced he was employed by the CIA, and that the project was

sponsored by th. Agency. He hastened to state that he was not

forcing the issue, nor would he want confirmation of this and,

further, he would not mention this to anyone else, including Sam.

Sam was never introduced to any Agency personnel and, while CIA

was never mintioned to him, it is Mahcu's belicf he eventually sus-

pected the Agency was the power behind the operation.

CLASSIFIED BY 0633S4 1790Y7E

EXEMPT TROVC

*TAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E. I

•"NIMOTION CATEGORY:

§ 58111. 0

5

,.) (eirale one or mora)

CONFIDENTIAL

AUTUMLI:

•eLl LECLASSIFIED ON

daungrated foconfedentallizo crick

DocId:32403481 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FD

CONFIDENTIAL

18. In May 1952, because of Mr. O'Connell's assignment

to an overseas post, it was decided to turn Roselli over to

MI. William Harvey, who was at that time Chief, Task Force W.

Harvey was introduced as William Walker. It is noi known whether

Roselli ever became aware of Harvey's true name:

And loban

Director' of

HW 53320

CLASSIFIED BY 2633544 07ARZE

EXEARI FRO:: ENERAL DECLASSIFICATION

SCHEDULE OF E.

-KiSINTION CATEGORY:

§ 5B(1), 12.

• icirele one or moret

AUTO::..

..Li MCCLAGIFIED ON

érnended to confidenteal

funles: imbossible, irsert date or erent)

DocId: 32403481 Page 7

---

