# docid-32211584

## Page 1

Date: 08/20/93

Page: 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : WC

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

09:

DEMOHRENSCHILDT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

179-40005-10135

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 03/03/64

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS :

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : / /

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

FROM K.P. DEMOHRENSCHILDT, MRS. (JEANNE); BOX F03; 2 COPIES

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 50529 DocId: 32211584

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Plcase Rofer so

File No.

Commission No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENI UE JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGION 25, D. Co

Marci 3, 1954

5.40

GEORGE

DE MOHRENSCHILDT

JEANNE

DE MORKENSCHILDT

Other Individuals and Organizations

Involved or Interviewed

DECLASS 0 0T 9503 PDB/B3R

+ JER.).

On February 28, 1554, T-1, wio has furnisied

reliable information in the past, stated that a check of

the Mexican Immigration records maintained by the Mexican

Ministry of tre Interior

(Governacion), Mexico, D. 1.,

CIsclosed file 4/351.0'50"/29224 concerning GEORGE DE

MOHRENSCHILDT and his wife, JEANNE DE MOMRENSCHILDT, bOth

United staïes citizens.

According to this file, GEORGE

DE MO RENSCHILDI, a

petroleun geologist and engineer,

iod directed a communication Irom 139-40 Republic National

Dallas, Texas,

on June ô, 1950, to the

jecretary of Governacion, asising for permission for he

and is wize, JEANNE, to enter Mexico for a period oi

eleven nonths in order to do research in the fields of

art,

archaeology and geology while traveling through mexico

irom the United Staies border to Central Anerica and Panana.

According to this file, the MOnRENSCHILDIs planned

to do most of their work in the State of Chiapas, Mexico.

MOSRENSCHILDT indicated that his work would be published

in "Life Magazine" and the "National Geographic Magazine".

and indicated that he was a friend of ANTONIO GARCIA ROJAS,

Director oi Mexican Petroleum Exploration.

The Secretary of Gobernacion referred this matter

tO EUSEBIO DAVALOS HURTADO, Director of the Mexican Institute

CONFIDE

N

IA L

GROUP

Excluded from

utomatic

Downgrading and Deci

lassification

NH 50529 DocId:32211584 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TIAL

of Anthro, logy and History, who informed Gobernacion that

MOHRENSCHILDT had not been

given permission by that

Institute to do archaeological research in Mexico.

quently, the jecretary of Gobernacion informed

that he would have to first obtain permission from the

Mexican Institute of Anthropology and History of the

Ministry of Public Education, Mexico, D. F., prior to

soliciting the permission of Gobernacion to enter the

country for the afore-mentioned purposes.

The files of Gobernacion contained no information

concerning the

MOSRENSCHILDTS since August 27, 1960, no

indication that the MOHRENSCHILDTs had corresponded

robernavion since that tine, and no indication as to whether

or not they subsequently entered Mexico.

On February

29, 1964, Colonel CARLOS ESPINOSA

FELIX, Chief, Identification Section, Metropolitan Police,

Mexico, D. I., stated that the records of that office

contained

no identifiable information concerning the subjects.

Colonel ESPINOSA FELIX advised that the records

of that office disclosed no derogatory information concerning

LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN but indicated that she was finger-

printed for the issuance of driver's licenses on July 9,

1935, and March 25, 1942.

In 1942, she gave an address of

9, Fraccionamiento Acacias, Colonia Mixcoac, Mexico,

He further stated that she had obtained Certificates

of Good Conduct from that office for passport purposes on

the following dates, at which time she gave the following

addresses:

April 18, 1951 -- Calle Yosemite No. 59, Colonia

Napoles, Mexico, D. &.; May 4, 1950 -- Calle Miami No. 20,

MeXiCo, D. F.; August 19, 1960, Apartment

No, 5, Tabasco No. 157, Mexico, D. F.

On March 3, 1964, SERGIO GARRIDO, Chief, Identi-

fication Section, Federal Judicial Police of Mexico, Mexico,

Identification Section,

Judicial Police of the Federal District and Territories,

Mexico, D. I., advised that the records of their respoctive

offices contained no identifiable information concerning the

subjects or LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN.

CONFIDE

NIIA

-2-

CRITO

50529

DocId:32211584

Page 3

---

