# docid-32334609

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10315

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-97

eleased under the John F

ennedy Assassination Record

ACE OI

1992

144

2107 Notel.

Case# : NUT

53074 Date: 05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KELLOGG

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 02/04/1965

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

IT 53074 DocId: 32334609 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Miami, Florida

February 4, 1965

MEMO, SAC

RB:

VALJEAN MATTHEW HALEY

PSI - MINUTRHEN

Rememo to SAC, 12/22/64, concerning "HINUTEMEN;

INFO CONCENNING" in which it was pointed out that captloned

individual, a Palm Beach County, Plorida, detective sergeant,

and deputy sheriff, had recelved a letter from an unknown

source containing Minutenen literature.

On February 4, 1965 HALLY advised that he had

received an ansyer.

/:=:

"Sod Class" which was postmarked in Independence, Mo. with

no date 1n the postmark.

Inside that envelope was a second

envolope which was a "Business Beply Envelope" indicating

no postage necessary 1f mailed in the United States. This

envelope was addressed to "Blolas corporation, Norborne.

Missour1". Insice that envelope was a pamphlet entitled

"Principles of Guerrilla Warfare" which indicated on its face

that it was published by "Hinutenes, P.O. Box 68, Norborne,

Hissour1".

Also enclosed was a Membership Application Forn

for Minutonen; a slip of paper on which was printed a

"caution" that checks are nicrofflmed by banks and records

kept for years, so avold use of checks in dealing with the

organization and send cash; and a mineographed lotter on

Minutenen letterhead addrossod to "Dear Fellow American" and

signod "ROBERT D. DePUGH", volcing appreciation for the ad-

wIll make that porson a provisional membor and ontitlo him to

receive certain correspondence training.

L: 10-96441

1090

- 134-304

1;-

105-4921 (Minutemen)

RBR: egh

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(2)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

ATE 1/3/84 BY SP80TAC

211.32

105-4921-97

HH 53074 DocId: 32334609 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 134-

HALEY said he intended to submit an application to

Minutemen

In an effort to ascertain if there 1s a group 1n

the west Palm Beach area, of exactly what the situation might

be, and that he would make all information developed avallable

to the FBI.

It 18 requested a PSI case be opened. Airtel

Intiating PSI Investigation will be submitted. The above

oten recolved by RAllY will be transmitted to the lilami

RICHARD B. KELLOGG

Special Agent

-==.

• ...

- 2

10888-10312

MH 53074

DocId: 32334609

Page

---

