# docid-32286485

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10261

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-323

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case# :NU 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/16/1962

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLER, ACT, ASSOC, ARMED ROBBERY,

PROSTITUTION ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

N9.1

HH 45760

2

DocId: 32286485

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Date:

4/16/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

FROM

SÁC, DALLAS, (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 4/9/62.

Re: DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT

GIIF - DALLAS

(DL 94-47, 80-226)

On 4/3/62, DL-95-C advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

that based on the below information he was' of the opinion

that Vice Squad Detèctive BILL GEE is on the payroll or

take from Dallas gamblers and possibly the person who is

furnishing gamblers information concerning police activities

in this field.

CI

stated that on 3/31/62 he had observed GEE

and GEE's wife at a private club which has recently been

opened at the Belmont Motel. This club is an after hours

drinking place and is partly owned by Dallas gambler BOBBY

JOE CHAPMAN.

It is also partly owned by FRANK CRAMER of

the City Linen Co. On 3/31/62, while in conversation with

CRAMER, CI was advised by CRAMER that

"GEE is my boy".

On

3 - Bureau

3- Atlanta

(1 - 87-8534)

1 - Dallas

(94-54)

1

- DalLas

194-47)

'(92-39)

- Dallas (88-3931)

1

- Dallas

(88-8365)

1

(92-214)

1 = Danas,

(94-55A-SUB)

RMB/ 11

(17)

2-9

RÉG 12

100

18 APR 19/1962

0M 1a5

1(34-5014)

÷.153

1

Dallas

(92-249)

1 1 Dullas: (5+9%

1-

Da 16a37 (162-8)

do it

LBI

147%4 ate

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

-3

HH 45760 DocId:32286485

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

3/31/62, GEE was moving some chairs

for CRAMER to the above

club from

the 123 Club in Dallas. During his conversation

with CRAMER and while they were awaiting the arrival of GEE

at the club, CRAMER said "he better show up - I take care of.

him - I'm his bread and butter".

CI also stated that he also had been talking to

the former porter at the Redmen Club, 3109 West Davis, Dallas

(DL 162-129) known to CI only as "FULLER".

CI he had recently been interviewed by Dallas Vice Squad

officers concerning BOBBY CHAPMAN's numerous visits to the

Redmen Club. FULLER stated he thereafter learned that GEE or

his partner named "STUDEBAKER" had told CHAPMAN that FULLER

had been questioned about CHAPMAN.

Re: CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCH PROGRAM

DALLAS DIVISION (DL 94-55A)

On 4/10/62, LT. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section,

Dallas PD furnished the

following information on a confidential

basis. LT. REVILL has always been most cooperative with the

Bureau and

he was furnishing the following with the understanding

that his source, whom he identified, not be contacted by

Bureau personnel.

LT. REVILL has been

developing as a source of

information, former St. Louis hoodlum and gambler NATHAN

PlAnt who is presently residing in the Dallas

area. PLATT

aavised REVILL that hoodlum or syndicate money in the

United States is being invested in large amounts in businesses

iSntAfied DON DePATMA; a resident of Tampa, Fla. and An

is PLATT's "boss" as being one of the persons so investing

this hoodlum money. He stated DePALMA owns the Crown

Aluminum Co. in Tampa, Fla. and the Gulf Coast or Gulf

States Aluminum Co. in Dallas which is a subsidiary of

Crown Aluminum. PLATT described DePALMA as a "big time

gambler" who has "syndicate" connections.

PLATT also

stated that he had learned through DePALMA that the Division

of Alcoa Co. Manufacturing aluminum siding is controlied' by

hoodlum money.

PLATT also stated that DePALMA had recently instructed

PLATT to stay out of the University Club in Dallas (which is

owned

and operated by GEORGE W. OWENS, as this club was under

•HH 45760 DocId:32286485 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A-SUB

surveillance by a law enforcement agency because of the

"funny money" being pushed there.

PLATT did not elaborate

further on "funny money" and its

significance is unknown to

the Dallas Office or to LT. REVILL.:

It is suspected that

he is possibly referring to counterfeit money. The It,?

Re: GIIF, Texarkana, Texas

(DL 94-54)

Following is a summary

by SA JAMES V. LAUGHLIN from PCI

at intormation received

On 2/13/62,

advised that Yellow Cab drivers,

MILTON DUNCAN, ADAIR and CHESTER (LNU) selling whiskey illegally

after hours and on Sundays for $3 a half-pint plus cab fare.

Information furnished to RAYMOND McVAY, Texas Alcohol Control

Agent, who put drivers under surveillance.. McVAY advised that

DUNCAN has been arrested for the same type of alcohol violation

in the past.

On 2/26/62,

was in open operation at 419 Whitaker St., operated by DOROTHY

HULSE.

One girl at this house is PATRICIA VICKIE CASH whó

is also utilized as a call girl by cab driver MILTON DUNCAN.

This information was furnished to Chief of Police JACK O'BRIEN.

PCI also advised that house at 420 Oak Street still is in

operation.

Surveillance by Agent verified information. Chief

O'BRIEN has been advised.

On 3/5/62,

advised that two prostitutes are

living in Room 226 of the Holman Hotel; one of them is a

young girl, in her teens, who is actively soliciting in the

hallways:

She advised that one of the girls had been working

also advised that

very little will be done about the call girl operations she

has been exposing because Assistant Chief of Police HOMER

GOFF is being paid off and "otherwise" being taken care of by

two madams in Texarkana, ODELL GILL who owns the house at

420 Oak Street, and GLADYS MITCHELL, who operates the house

at 125 West Broad Street.

She said

that GLADYS MITCHELL has

a daughter, HELEN, who "takes care of" GOFF.

(It is noted

that MITCHELL and GILL operate call girl rackets in Texarkana

in cooperation with the cab drivers and bell hops.

This

information was reported in previous contact

reports with

3

JFK Act 6 (4)

NH 45760 DocId:32286485 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL. 94- 55A-SUB

and whereas the above mentioned houses operate very dis-

creetly, there is little doubt that call girl operations in

Texarkana are extensive and the dates are usually filled in

hotels and motels.

Only two arrests have been made since

began furnishing information on prostitution.)

On 3/9/62,

advised that the name of the woman

in Room 226, Holman

Hotel, is LILLIAN YATES, wife of cab driver

HARRY YATES, who is currently awaiting murder trial in Texarkana,

Ark.. She said that YATES is charging $20 per date.

This

information was orally given SA PAUL L. SCOTT, Texarkana, Ark.

RA, who verified fact that YATES is a prostitute.

Information

that YATES was working in Room 226 was given to Chief O'BRIEN.

On 3/10/62,

Jadvised that she received the

following information

from JUANITA THOMAS, Holman Hotel, Desk

Clerk, *HOMER GOFF, Assistant Chief, Texarkana, Texas PD sent

Patrolman LESTER CARTER over to tell her (THOMAS) that the

police were going to raid

the hotel that day. THOMAS passed the

word around the hotel and "everybody" left the hotel (except

who resides in Room 302).

LILLIAN YATES who was prostituting

in Room 226 got out and checked in at the Avenue Hotel on State

ulne Bivd. in Texarkana, Arkansas.

Texarkana, Ark. Agent checked

with Avenue Hotel and verified that YATES had checked in at the

hotel on 3/10/62.

Re: GIIF, Dallas, Texas

(DL: 94-47) ;

GIIF .

Atlanta

The following is a summary of information recently

developed by the Dallas and Atlanta Offices concerning

activities of a group of known safe burglars and hijackers

who associate continuously with known prostitutes and who

appear to be traveling throughout the southern and

southwestern

United States.

In Dallas file 87-10,049, AT 87-8534, informa-

tion has been developed that MARION ROBERT RAIF, FBI

#265028B

(DL 92-39), in association with JOHN OSCAR LUCK, FBI #37767A and

JOHN B. NOBLE, FBI #1407414, had been traveling between Atlanta,

Ga., Dallas, Texas, Pine Bluff and Little Rock, Ark.

Purpose of

these trips according to information received from informants,

is believed to be for

the commission of burglaries.

Information

was recently received from DL-34-C on 4/12/62 that this group

had "made" an unknown department store where they obtained loot.

totaling approximately $4200.

While this group was in Pine

Bluff, Ark. they were in contact with former Dallas ex-convict

4

JEK Act 6 (4)

NH 45760 DocId:32286485 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL. 94-55A-SUB

Houston hustling under the name CONNIE BARKER..

One of NEWSOM's

closest associates, and believed involved in this venture is

Dallas - Fort Worth pimp JERRY LAKE.

Re: MARTIN BUSTER LOICANO, aka.

IGA (DL 162-8)

JIMMY H. ANDERSON, Euless, Texas, contacted SA JOSEPH M.

MYERS at Fort Worth, Texas on 4/10/62 and stated he had informa-

tion regarding LOICANO and GARNETT FAIN, former bell captain

at Western Hills Inn, concerning these two evading income taxes.

ANDERSON was introduced to SA LARRY SCOTT, IRS, Intelligence

Agent on same date.

Re: IRS, Special Squad

Ft.

Worth, Texas (DL 5-0)

JAMES DE PRATO, Special Agent, IRS, Fort Worth advised

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS on 4/12/62 that:

FK Law 11(a)

Re: JAMES BENNETT WAAGE, aka. et al

POSSIBLE UFAP - ARMED ROBBERY,

FFA

Highland Motel, Dallas,

a registration card for a ROBERT LEWIS, 3610 Gunther, Dallas,

lexas, who was registered on 4/8/62 and assigned Room 21.

He told the porter, EMERSON SWIFT that he was a friend of

JAMES BENNETT WAAGE, who at that time was in Room 22. LEWIS

stayed there one night.

There was no indication on the card

that he was driving a car.

iAS

Re :.

THOMAS THEODORE POMEROY;

DOROTHY DARLENE MILLER;

WANDA SUE BARKER, aka. -

VICTIMS

WSTA (DL 31-8365)

119/95mm

TREAT MRIA

I RELEASE I PART

TOTAL CELL

6

62-912-323

•NH 45760 DocId:32286485 Page 6

---

