# docid-32198709

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10271-10050

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1007X

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 55355 Date:

11-24-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HO

'TO: DOJ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/23/1975

PAGES: 11

SUBJECT: CC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

• PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/05/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

NH 55355 DocId:32198709 Page 1

---

## Page 2

EXCS:

ORRARI SE

JFK,

4/219/98

11/4/98 milk

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SLO

REASON:

DECLASSIFY ON:

2 - Mr.

Mintz

(1 -

Mr J. B. Hotis)

1 - MI.

W. R.

Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. R. H. Ross

The Attorney General

October 23, 1975

NSA

Director, FBI

REVIEWED BY SWUFK TASTI

ON

10/29/58 dol

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RELEAOC IN ROLL

HELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENAL

Reference is made to a letter from the SSC dated

Blach her

May 14, 1975, with attached appendices A through D, requesting

certain documents and other information from the FBI.

Enclosed for your approval is the original of a memo-

randum responsive to the request of the Committee for access to a

list identifying all warrantless telephone and microphone surveillances

conducted by the FBI since 1960.

JEK- Act 6 (1) (B)

A brieting for Senator Church has been provided cover-

fing warrantless electronic surveillances, surreptitious entry for

recovery of cryptographic material teletype coverage requested by

the National Security Agency and

requested by the National Security Agencya

" The (S

White House asked that agencies of the intelligence community not

terered to stenen Blach,

respond to any requests from the SSC covering these matters until the

nat detered +55890082111

briefing had been given. The goal of the briefing was to confine knowl-

edge of these matters to Senators Church and Tower and avoid prolif-

eration of this information throughout the SSC Staff. In view of this, it

is recommended that the enclosed material not be made available to the

SSC Staff until it is discussed with the White House. I further urge that

it be made clear to the White House that, if this material is to be made

available to the SSC, access to the enelosed material be limited to

Senators Church, Tower, and SSC Stail Director William Miller only.

A copy of this memorandum with its enclosures is

being furnished for your records.

Enclosures (6)

REC. 112

09007X

62-116395

- The Deputy Attorney General

Attention: Michael E. Shaheen,

Special Counsel for

Assac. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD lnv..o

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

intell.

Laboratory-

Spec. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

SJM/RHR: 1j/f

An (9)

Telephone Rm.

ctor Sec'y

•84 ГЕВ 2 3176

MAIL, ROOM

NW 55355 DocId: 32198709

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

TELETYPE UNIT

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

Page 2

---

## Page 3

62-116395

2 - Mr. J. A, Mintz

(1 = Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr. R. H, Ross

October 23, 1975

UNITED STATES SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS

WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

RE: REQUEST PERTAINING TO IDENTITY

OF ALL WARRANTLESS ELECTRONIC

SURVEILLANCES CONDUCTED BY THE

FBI SINCE 1960

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IchtiN

ATE 4/29/98 BY.

5268 suo/ra

JFK)

Reference is made to the letter, with attached appen-

dices, dated May 14, 1975, to the Attorney General from the

Chairman of captioned Committee, requesting certain documents and

other. information from the FBL

Appendix D, Item 3, of referenced appendices requested

this Bureau to provide Committee Stall access to a list df all warrant-

less electronic surveillances, identified by subject and target, which

were instituted or operated by, for, on behalf of, or at the request of

the FBI, from January 1, 1960, to present.

Two lists are enclosed showing the number and type of

subject or target of all warrantless electronie surveillances conducted

by the FBI from 1960 to July, 1975, the date of compilation, Data

contained in these lists are responsive to the SSC request; however,

due to privacy considerations and sensitive ongoing investigations,

the revelation of which could adversely affect the foreign relations of

the United States, the lists de not contain the identities of the individ-

wals, organizations; or establishments upon which the electronic

surveillances were conducted.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Enclosures (2)

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. --

Inspection ...

1 - The Attorney General

HWP/RHR:1hb/lj/5

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.:.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun

Telephone Rm...

Director Sed'y _.

MAIL ROOM

SECRET MATERIAL ATTACHED

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

101 51

TELETYPE UNT ENCLOSURD

130109

774 55355

DooId: 32198709

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

TELEPHONE SURVEILLANCES

5

FOREIGN DIPLOMAT

ESTABLISHiLENTS

144

FOREIGN CONNERCIAL

2

ESTABLISHMENTS

FOREGN CIPLENATIC

5

OFFICIALS

FOREIGN INTELLI-

3

GENCE AGENTS

FOREIEN INTELLI

11

GENCE CONTACTS-

COMMUNIST PARTY.

FUNCTIONAPIES:

COMMUNIST DARTY

27

2

PROPAGANDA OUTLEI

COMMUNIST PARTY

FRONT GROUP

CONNUNIST PARTY

MEMPER

PUERTO RICAN

INDEPENDENCE

GPOUP

HEADQUARTERS,

BASIC REVOLUTION

2

ARY GROUP

BLACKSEPAPATIST

GROUP FUNCTIONARY

DOMINICAN

EXILE GROUP .

FOREIGN INTELLI

GENCE

CONTACT SUSPECT

COMMUNIST PARTY

INFLUENCED GROUP

PRO-CASTRO

ORGANIZATION

PRO-CASTRO

MOVEMENT LEADER

MARXIST-LENNIST

GROLD AFFILIATE

INTERNAL SECURITY

6

66666666777777

1•2

34567890/2345

64

79

87

93

80 64 39:38

43

37 34: 48 54 35(5)

T

3

3

3

3

3

4

4

3

2

3

• 9

15

:2S)

32(5)

14

5

13

28

37

31

36

9

9

5

27

31.40

36

25

23

31

15

6

18

3

•5

16

24

8

11

12

4

3

2

21

5

41

8

6/S)

9

4.

:9

4

2

2

24

3

2

2

CONRA

ASSLFIED

10M

SHIONN

2

3

2

3

2

2

2

2

3

6

2

REPUÖLIC

COVERAGE

OF

CLASSIFIED INFORT

MATION LEAK

3

12

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 ScO/GC

RE

C,

DECLAS

FY UN

(ПК).

(6)

H29/98

SECRET

S 2 16395-1007X

elimite

NH 55355

DocТd: 32198709

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

6

666666

66

6

1,2, 3,4, 5,6,7,8,9

7

7.7

1,2,3,4

/

si :

COMMUNIST PARTY

INFILTRATED GROUP

FOREIGN MILITANT

GROUP OFFICIAL

PRO.-CASTPO

GROUP FLACIONARY

PUERTO RICAN

INDEPENDÊNCE

GROUP LEADER

COMMUNIST PARTY

AFFILIATE

COMMUN'ST PARTY

PUBLICATION

FOREION MINTANT

GROUP CONTACT

FOREIGN. INTELLI

GENCE AGENTS

SUSPECT

LEADER OF

RACIST ORGANIZATICA

CNIL RIGHTS

FUNCTIONARY

MARXIST - LENINIST

GROUP LEADER

COVERAGE REGLESTED

BY PRESIDENT'S COR

MISSION TO INVESTI-

GATE THE ASSASSI -

NATION OF J.F.K.

RACIAL EXIPEMIST

GROUP MEILBEP

ASSOCIATE OF

SOUTHERN CHRISTIANA

LEADERSHIP CONFER.

ENCE FUNCTIONARIES

PUERTO PICAN

INDEPENDENCE

GROUP LEMBER

BLACK EXTREMIST

LEADER

MILIIANT BLICK

EXTREMIST CASAN.

FOREIGN DIPLOABATRO

OFFICIALS

CONIACI

3

3

4

3

3

2

5

3

+

13

2

3

SECRET

- 2-

NH 55355 DooId: 32198709 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET.

56,6,6

6

6:

6

12, 3,4,5,6

6

7

6

1 7 7 7 77?

9,0

12, 3,4

5

(s)

(s)

($)

MARXIST - LENINIST

GROUP FUNCTIONAPY

NEW LEFT

ORIENTED

CAMPUS GROUP

FOREGN MILITANT

GROUP

FOREIGN REVOLITON

ARY GROUP

PRO - ARAB

GROUP

ARAB TERRORIST

AFFILIATE

PRO-PALESTINE

GROUP

LEADEP. OF REVO-

LUTIONARY SPOUP

ANTI-VIETNAM

WAR GROUP

MILITANT PRO -

CHICOM GROUP

ARAB TERPOPIST

ACTIVIST

RACIAL EXTREMIST

GROUP

BLACK EXTREMIST

GROUP AFFILIATE

PROPAGANDAOUILET

LEAGUE OF

ARAB STATES

PRO-ISRAELI

MILITANT GROUP

NEW LEFT

ORIENTED: CAMPUS

GROUP FACTION

NEW LEFT

ORIENTED CAMPUS

GROUP CONTACI

PUBUCATION OF

CLANDESTINE INDERI

GROUND. GROUP

DEDICAIED TO

STRATEGIC SABOTAGE

NEW LEFI

ACILVISI

16

19

19

SECRET

- 3 -

NW 55355 DocId: 32198709 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECRET

6

6

6

12.34

6.

6

6

7777

0,

1,2, 3

77

4,5

12.5

•(S)

(S)

(s)

INVESTIGATION

Or

CLANDESTINE UNDER-

GROUND GROUP

DEDICATED TO

STRATEGIC SAROTICE

BLACK EXTPEMIST

MILITANT BLACK

EXTREMIST GROUP

MEMBEP

MILITANT

BLACK

EXTREMIST GROUP

FUNCTIONARLES

VIOLENCE PRONE

FACTION, DOMESTIC

PROTEST GROUP

DOMESTIC PROTEST

GROUP

COVERAGE OF

MEETING OF

MILITANT GROUP

WEATHERMAN CRI-

INTEO PUBLICATION

MILITANT

PRO-ISRAELI

GROUP MEMBER.

FOREIGN INTELLI

GENCE AGENTS

BUSINESS OFFICE

WEST COAST

FUNDRAISiNG FOR

ARAB TERPORIST

GROUPS

PRO-CHICOM

PROPAGANDA

OUTLET

6 6

67

2

2

SECRET

-4-

55355 DooId:32198709 Page 7

---

## Page 8

GONIVINDO NOZIURAO.

CALL LED

NMORIC

SE

10 en

EXCE

OTHERWI

SECRET

MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCES

6

6

FOREION DIPLOMATE

ESTABLISHENIS

FOREIGN CONNEROAL

ESTABLIST MENTS

FOREIGN DIPLOMMATIC

OFFICIALS

FOREIGN INTELLI-

GENCE AGENTS

FOREIGN iNTELLI

GENCE CONTACTS

COMMUNIST PARTY

FUNCHONARES

FOREIGN INTELLI-

GENCE AGENTS

SUSPECTS

BASIC REVQUTCNIALY

GROUP FOUNDER

CO-CONSERATORS

IN PLOT TO KIDNAP

A PROMINENT ANT-

CASTRO CUBAN

EXILE

COMMUNIST PARTY

FRONT GROUPS

COMMUNIST PAPTY

PROPAGANDA CUTLET$

COMMUNIST.. PARTY

FRONT. GROUPS

ORGANIZER

COMMUNIST PARTY

FUNCTION

MARYIST CRIENTED

YOUTH GROUP

DOMINCAL ACTIVISI

BLACK SEPARATIST

GROUP

COMMUNIST PARTY

PUBLICATIONS

CONMUNIST PAPTY

MEMBERS

WIFE OF

FOREIGN INTELLI-

GENCE CONTACI

TROTSKYITE

ORGANLATION

4

7

5

6

16

2.

2

/

* CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 SLO/GGL

DECLASSFY ON: X_(6)

JFK) 4/29/48.

NW 55355 DooId:32198709

Page 8

666666677777

,3 4, 5, 6, 7

90

2

3

8

12

, 3,

15

21

40

27 3224

7

10

14

7

7

2

3

3

3

2

184

17

5

2

15

13

tit

7

5

-

2

2

+

3

2

2

2

2

+

6

5

3

2

12

2

2

3

• 5

6

2

4

3

4

8

12

2

3

4

2

2

SECRET

ENCLOSURE 12-76 395=/007X

7

5

10

3

(S)

7I51

---

## Page 9

SECRET

5666666666773?

7

7

1,2

6

2 3

4

5

COVERAGE OF

FOREIGN DIPLOMATC

OFFICIALS

COVERAGE OF

COMMUNIST PARTY

MEETING

HEADQUAP.TERS

BASC REVOLUTIONARY

GROUP

ORGANIZER

BASIC REVOLUTIONARIY

GROUP

CONTACT OF

PUERTO RICAN

NATIONALIST PARTY

COMMUNIST PARTY

YOUTH ACTIVIST

COMMUNIST PAPTY

LABOR GROUP

PRO - CASTRO

ORGANZATIONS

BLACK SEPAPATIST

GROUP FUNCTIONARY

MARXIST-LENINIST

GROUPS

COMMUNIST PARTY

YOUTH GROUPS

RELATIVE OF

FOREIGN INTELU-

GENCE AGENT

SUSPECT

RACIST ORGANIZATIONIS

BASC REVOLUTIONARI

FRONT GROUP

COMMUNIST PARTY

AFFILIATE

OFFICIAL OF

FOREIGN MILITANT

GROUP

PUERTO RICAN

INDEPENDENCE

GROUP OFFICIAL

BASE REVOLUTIONARI

GROUP

FUNCTIONERY

/

2

+

1.

2

3

2

SECRET

-2 -

NW 55355 DooId: 32198709 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECREF

6

6

6

6

1.2

,3, 4

6

6

5

6

6

78

6

777

7

1,2,3,

4, 5

PUERTO RICAN

REVOLUTIONARY

FOREIGN INTELLI

GENCE AGENTS

CONTACT

FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC

OFFICIALS CONTACT

COVERAGE OF

TROTSKYITE ORGANIT

ZATION MEETING

MARXIST-LENINIST

FRONT GP.OUA

COVERAGE OF.

COMMUNIST PARTY

CONFERENCE

PRO -CHICOM

GROUP

PRO-PUERTO RICAN

INDEPENDENCE

GROJP ACTIVISTS

CIVIL RIGHTS

EUVOTIONARY

COVERAGE AT

REQUEST OF

PRESIDENTS COMM.

IO INVESTIGATE THE

ASSASSINATOM OF JEK

COMMUNIST PARTY

APOLeGISI

HAITIAN

EXILE GROUP

ASSOCIATES OF

CIVIL RIGHTS

FUNCTIONARY

MARXIST ORIENTED

RACIAL

ORGAMIZATION

NEW LEFT

ORIENTED

CAMPUS GROVP

PRO-CUSA AMERICAN!

GROUP NHO TRAVELEO

10 CURA

BLACK EXTREWIST

ORGANIZATIO

2

2

+17

3

SEERET

3

-

NW 55355 DooId:32198709 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

6

1,2,3

6

6

7

7

.7

123,4

5

(5)

(S)

BLACK EXTREMIST

GAOUP FUNCTIONARY

PRO-PALESTINE

GROUP

WEATHER UNDER -

GROUND SUPPORT

APPARAIUS

ARAB TERRORIST

ACTIVIST

PROPAGANDA OUTLET

FOR LEAGUE OF

ARAB STATES

WEST COAST

FUND RAISING

FRONT FOR

ARAB TEPRORIST

ACTIVIST GROUPS

FOREIGN INTELLI-

GENCE AGENTS

BUSINESS OFFICE

ARAB TERRORIST

ACTIVIST

AFFILIATE_

COVERAGE OF

FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC

OFFICIALS

COVERAGE OF

ARAB TERRORIST.

ACTIVIST

MEETING

3

3

SECRET

= 4-

74 55355

DooId: 32198709 Page 11

---

