# docid-32197439

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10268-10280

RECORD SERIES: PG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-2931-63

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HOPKINS. EMILE.

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/08/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 100-10461-2438

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/18/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HN 53025 DooId:32197439

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Cover Siget for Informant Report of

Marerial

FD-306 (3-21-58)

Date received

Received from (name or symbol number)

12/16/63

CI 104-S

Alethod of delivery (check appropriate blocks)

CHin person

_ by telephone

by mail

Received by

SA EMIL E. HOPKINS

orally

recording device

Ox written by Informant

It orally furnished and reduced to writing by Agent:

Date

Date of Report

Dictated

12/8/63

to

Datels) of activity

Transcribed

Authenticated

by Informant

12/8/63

Brief description of activity or material

Report of CI 104-S re Communist Party meeting

held 12/8/63, at home of GENNE KUHN,

: 6105

File where original is located if not attached"

Front St., Wheeling, West Virginia:

134-8A-557

Remarks:

Utmost care should be taken that any information taken from

this report is paraphrased to protect informt, since only

seven individuals attended the meeting.

11 - Cleveland (RM)

100-17257 (CP. Org.)

100-

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

62-

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

86440

(JACK LEON RUBY, Aka.)

105-

(LEE HARVY OSWALD'

ALL INFOSS ION CONTAINEU

65-721

(ANTHONY KRCHMAREK)

100-17255

(Membership)

HEREATO NRCLASSIFIED

100-16463 (Political Activities)*

DATE 5-25-93BY 9803 ROD/KSR

100-17797 (Factionalism)

(JFK)

100-23484 (Mass Organizations)

100-17947 (Strategy in Industry)

62-2931-63

3 • Dallas (RM)

SEARCHED

INDEXED

62-

(Assassination of President KENNOY) SERIALIZED FILED

(JACK LEON RUBY)

AN 1 1 1964

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

FRI - PITTSBURGH

6 - New York (RM)

100-

(CP Org.)

62-

(Assassination of Pres. KENNEDY)

46f0

(JACK LEON RUBY)

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD):

SEARCHED

-INDEXED

89 ALIZED

JAN 2

2964

FAL: OM

100-16021 (ARNOLD JOHNSON):

ww 5S6E5/B6c13215P5T-Page 2 2931 (Assassin. Pro, Kennedy,

---

## Page 3

1348A-557

(Copies Continued)

100-145835 (CP, USA, Public Appearances of Party Leaders - 414)

13- Pittsburgh (RM)

100-8571

(CP, State of West Virginia)

100-8572

(CP, Ohio Valley Section)

100-8664

(CP, Membership)

100-

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

62-

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

6440

(JACK LEON RUBY).

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-8549

(GENNE: KUHN)

100-

(Factionalism)

100-

157-

(Political Affairs)

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100.

(Mass Organizations)

100014821 (HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, JI. )

24. Cincinnati

100-3500 (CP Organization)

134•8A

62-2758 (Assassination of President KENNEDY)

44-456 (JACK. LEON RUBY) :

105-2505 (LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-7964 (CP Membership)

100-8227 (Political Activities)

100-8481 (Factionalism.

100-12701 (Cominfil, Mass Organizations)

100-8359

(Strategy In Industry)

100-12483 (CHARLES PALMER)

100-12408 (RANDALL GORBY)

10099142:

(FLOYD WELLS)

100:7006

(GENNE: KÜHN)

100.12474

(JOHN FABRY):

100-12475

(SHIRLEY FABRY)

100-6386

(FRED WALCILI"

100-1910

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

100-1083

( ANTHONY KRCHMAREK)

157-195

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100-14096

(HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, JR.)

100-8402 (Youth Matters)

134142

(ADOLPH PACIFICO).

100-12707 (Cominfit, Labor Unions)

HH 53025

...Doeld

092192439 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CI. 134-8A-557

Informant's report set forth below:

"Steubenville, Ohio.

December 8, 1963

"On the above date a group from Steubenville, Met at

610 S. Front St. Wnseling, W. Va. the home of a Genne

(Crockard) Kuhn This was a Communist. Party Meeting.

The persons who were in attendance who were recognized

were:

I Floyd Wells: • A Carpenter and treasurer of his

local Union from Steubenville.

2 • CHARLES PALMER: - A steel worker and former grievance

Committeman from the Wheeling Steel Corpn, and Member

of Local Union #1190 U.S.W.A. C.I.O. A.F:L.

3 - Randal Gorby: from the Wheeling Steel Corpa and a

former shop stewart is a Member of Local Union #1190

U.S.W.A. C.I.O.: A.EoL

4 - Arnold Jolinson:

A former state chairman of the

Communist Party of Ohio and who now is a sort of public

relations man for the Commist party working out of

New York City, New York. He secures

speakers for

any engagements such as Colleges and Campus lectures

5.. John Fabrey a Miner from Smithfield. He 1s know

as the smiling Slovak.

6. Mrs. John Fabrey his Wife

7 - Genne (Crockard) Kihn the hostess 1s a long time C.

party worker former wife of Hugh Crockard Now deceased

and she

since Married Emil Kuhn who now resides at her

home.

Genre has three children two to her first

husband and the other to the latter. She has a son

about 19 yrs old who is being schooled and worked

over by the C. party In New York:

Genne. Kuhn Continued:: The C party wanted to take her son

Gill Crockard out of her Influence

so he could be taught

• 3 =

HH 53025 DooId:32197439 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CI 134-8A-557

something Constructive. This Gill recently, a few years

or less ago Made a trip to the Soviet Union etc on the

Youth Conference Know as

the

'World Youth Conference.'

He will probably energe from the New York thing as a

full time organiser In sore special field such as youth.

At the start of the Meeting Genne brought out

her brief case full of clippings (Newspaper) ete she

also had a lot of penciled notes which she was

undoubtedly going to use to show what she was doing

and to give others hell for not co-operating with her.

But the first discussion by A. Johnson centered around

the late Pres. Kennedy.

Arnold explained that since Oswald was Considered a

Commmist then a wave of hysteria was about to explode

against the C. party of America but by the time the

reactionaries were getting started it was announced

that it had been disclosed that it seemed like the

extreme

sight had been active. This was bore out

by the declaration of Russia that it was not the

C. party that had done it because Kennedy was a

friend of the working class but the work of the extreme

right or almost a fascist act. This seemed to sober

the masses that it was the same caliber of people who

had Insulted Stevenson only Weeks before in Dallas,

Texas.

Arnold stated he was

asked by C.B.S. News about this

Oswald as to a letter he had written to the party, he

told them he gets lors of letters of enquiry about the

C. party and he probably answered it as he does hundreds

of others and even sent him Ilterature if he requested

it. They (C.B.S.) wanted him to go on the air with a

statement but be

stated. to them he would have to dig the

letter out and be sure before he Made any statement.

Randal Gorby asked Arnold Johnson if when he got back to

New York to look in the files it he had a letter from a

Wa Pokas, formerly from Bellaire, Ohio, and also an

inmate of Cambridge Asylum for a period of time, Gorby

• 4 .

NH 53025 DocId: 32197439 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CT 13408A-557

asked Johnson to compare the

letter of pokey's with

Oswald's to see if they didn't have a lot in Common.

Palmer stated that he thought the statement by the

Methodist Minister

covered the

situation very good

wher he stated that the fact that the Murder of Bill

Moore, M Edgar Evers and others In the south going

by without punishment had set the stage for the

Assassination of Pres. Kennedy. Everyone readily

agreed.

Arnold Johnson further stated that no real Marxist

Could do such a thing. There 1s not Much doubt that

since the soviet Union had expelled him by not

giving him a Citirenship in the Soviet Union because

they thought him to be an Agent of Fascist. Gene

Meanwhile was Chomping at the bit trying to get her

story told about the N.A.A.C.P. and CORE.

She finally got her Chance

to unload.

she stated that about the time of the Civil Rights

March on Washington a

few days before she had been

working with CORE and NAACP the reporter from the

Aneeling paper Intelligencer had Called and wanted

to talk about her.

She gave him answers on the

phone and finally hung up on hin.

from the time

this phone corversation was completed She had been

guoted in the newspaper and exposed as a Commnist

party Member, which brought about her expulsion from

the N.A.A.C.P., but since has been restored to

Membership.

head of

Then lately a Man (Negro) by name of Johnson

bus

the local core group was indicted for robbing a

driver in Steubenville,

Ond®.:

Gene had got in

touch with R. Gorby as she

thought Johnson was being

framed.

Gorby found out and told her at this Meeting

that he had did the robbing and was Not being framed.

The best

thing to do stated Gorby was to give him

help but do not put CORE and the NAACP out on a 1imb

by doing it.

= 5 €

HH 53025 DoOId:32197439 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CI 134-8A-558

"Palmer

stated that it was

News to him as the only thing

he. Knew about it was the

articles

In the paper and the

first one looked as If Genne had stayed on the phone

too long should have hung up quick. He also stated that

In 1948 when he had this trouble everyone Knew about

It and then he got more help and was successful in

defeating the reactionaries.

You have to always work

together on these Matters If you will be successful.

The hour was drawing Near ten d'clock P.M. and the

Steuberville delegation had to work that Nite.

Lunch was furnished by each and everyone with the

exception of A Johnson and

he put away plenty.

Johnson stated that he had been down this way about one

week ago and had Contacted some of his old friends

by

phone,

one In particular was Adolph Pacifico, he

wanted to talk to him on a so called Applachian Coal project

which has been going on for some time. Adoiph wanted to

meet

with him if he could find time later Was umable to

see him at this time.

Everyone present asked A. Johnson When he was coming

back but he would not state exactly only he would notify

the Next time he could make it.

No Literature

No Collections

During the time Cerne Kuhn was belly aching about not

getting help from the valley group it was pointed out

by A johnson that some years back when the wheeling group

was a part of w. Virginia group that difficulties existed

and now with the wheeling group in with Ohio valley the

trouble still exists. He also pointed out that distance

has a lot to do with it too. Gemne stated that Fred

Walchli was supposed to show up with the Beer.. She

was urged to call him against her wishes but she got

no answer on the phone"

6

HN 53025 DooId:32197439 Page 7

---

