# docid-32290968

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10244

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-83564-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NEWSPAPERS

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

JFK, NRA A/O AOKRI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 3 NEWS ARTIC DTD 6/13/76 THRU 6/15/76, DATE MIDDLE RIGHT SIDE, INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32290968

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

*OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY, 1962 EDITION

•OSA" EPMR 141 CFR) 101-18.6

UNITED. STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

• CONS

SECRET

: Mr. T. W. Leavit

FROM

:S. S. Mignosa

- Mr.

R. J.

Gallagher

- Mr.

D. W. Moore

1 - Mr.

F. C. Fehl

DATE:

1

- Mr.

1

- Mr.

1

- Mr.

-

Mr •

-

Mr.

A.

Mintz

T.

Leavitt

J.

W.

Redfield

So So

Mignosa

Hampton

6/16/76

SUBJECT: ILONA MARITA LORENZ, AKA

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.:

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident. _

insec ion

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm.

Deci

Ha

PURPOSE:

Bassify en: GAD

398A/6CL 217/95-3

The purpose of this memorandum is

to advise vou

information in FBI files concerning the subject, who according

publicly

assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro. The newspaper articles

indicated that she was interviewed during that period by the FBI.

SYNOPSIS:

The subject, according to recent newspaper accounts,

was alleged to have been involved in a 1960 CIA plot to

assassinate Cuban Premier Fidel Castro. According to the 3

newspaper

accounts she was in contact with Alex Rorke allegedly

a CIA

and FBI employee and a Frank Fiorini allegedly a CIA

employee.

During contact with the New York Office in 1959 and

1960, the subject admitted being the lover of Castro and having

abortion as a resulty

She never advised the FBI of alleged:

involvement in the above plot nor was she ever directed to

perform any tasks on behalf of the FBI.

REASON: 1,5

2

The subject's husband is a New York informative asset

OL

in the Soviet bloc fieldS The subject, who is separated

from

informant

Enclosures - 3

ENCLOSURE

ALL INPORMAIION CONTAI

EX-115

HEREIN 13 UNCLAS

RDH: jmr

EXCEPT WHERE SHOW

105-83564-8

P.

hots

(9)

Q TUERWISE

CONTINUED - OVER

enel'

CC TO:S.

BENDEAL

REQ. RECI

17 JUN 22 1976

-S

NS.

NOV 30 1979

Classif

ded by 5182

Exempt

om GDS, Category

Date

of

Declassification Indefinite

ir: LSt

Lina

Varta Foren

SECREP 12

JUL

L014=1D.

1978

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32290968

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECHEU

Memorandum to Mr. T. W. Leavitt

Re: Ilona Marita Lorenz

The attached newspaper stories alleged that "Alex

Rorke, a wealthy adventurer who worked for both CIA and the

FBI" was involved with Frank Fiorini, a "CIA Agent,' who recruited

the subject in an assassination plot

against Castro.

Alexander I. Rorke is a former FBI clerical employee who, during

the time of the alleged plot in 1960, was a free lance

photographer.

He had been temporarily detained by the Cuban

Government in 1959 and for many years was active in anti-Castro

activities in the Florida area.

From time to time he contacted

the FBI and was dealt with at arms length because of his

adventurer; personality and self-serving motives.

He disappeared

on a plane flight in 1963 to Central America.

Frank Fiorini

also known as Frank Anthony Sturgis was well known to the FBI

for his anti-Castro activities in the U.S. following his=

defection from Cuba in 1958. He was also one of the Watergate

break-in subjects.u

Additional information in FBI files indicates that the

subject also furnished information concerning the July 26th

Movement in the U.S. This group was the original political

and

military organization which Castro used to overthrow the Batista

Regime in Cuba. The subject was also interviewed in 1962 in

Florida regarding tae White Slavery Traffic Act (WSTA) case and

admitted being the mistress of Marcos Perez Jimenez, former

President of Venezuela, who fathered her daughter.

Investigation

failed to establish the subject was a victim in the above mentioned

WSTA case. *The subject is the present wife of NY 7511-IA who

furnishes information on Soviet and Soviet-bloc matters.

is aware of her husbands cooperation with the New Yoisk

She

office! and (5)

nas, on occasion, volunteered information of values

The subject

is presently separated from her husband and in April,

1976, the

New York Office opened a potential criminal informant file on her

because of her contacts with

a New York area crime figure.

ruIseppe raggiano, and a race

horse trainer. She furnishec

information regarding gambling, shylocking

and bank robbery matters.

However, because of the recent

publicity set out in the attached

newspaper clippings, the fact that she is planning to write a book

concerning her Cuban experiences and the fact that she terminated

her contact with

criminal elements,her case was closed by the

New York Office.

CONFFDENTIAT

→3-

SECRET

DocId: 32290968 Page 3

---

