# docid-32331265

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10211

HQ

92-2989-83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/20/1962

PAGES:

6.

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: CABLEGRAM

V9.1

DocId: 32331265

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC

2101, Note)

• DATE

11-14-2111

1-3 (Rev. 3-5-62

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Callahd

Conrad

Set goi

ivanst

Malone

Metal ne

Sullivan

25/ Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Airgram

* Cablegram

URGENT

3-20-62

V.

ECLASSEPIED EY SEEMAC/E?

N.10-8-94

(TER)

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LEGAT,

NDON

• NO. 533

ALSO KNOWN AS, FOREIGN POLICE COUPERATIONS

CHARLES TOURINE

AKA, FPe. REBUCAB MARCH 15 LAST. TOURINE

AS CHARLES WHITE CHECKED INTO DORCHESTER HOTEL MARCH 6 LAST

AND; STAYED IN SAME SUITE WITH GEORGE RAFT, MOVIE ACTOR AND

SAIVUEL SOKOL, 534 WEST 30TH STREET, MIAMI, UNITED STATES

PASSPORT NUMBER B 415650.

$(4)

UNKNOWN.

TOURINE CHECKED OUT MARCH 13 LAST AND WHEREABOUTS®

SLAPSY MAXIE ROSENBLOOM, FORMER BOXER WHO GAVE HIS

OCCUPATION AS "ASSOCIATED WITH GEORGE RAFT" WAS PART OF

ENTOURAGE BUT DID NOT STAY AT DORCHESTER.

#(u)

& MERRILL HO KLEIN, 1217 SOUTH SHERBOURNE, LOS ANGELES

AND PAUL BELLO ALSO IN PARTY STAYED AT DIFFERENT HOTEL AND

CHECKED OUT MARCH 18 LAST. WHEREABOUTS ROSENBLOOM, KLEIN.

AND BELLO UNKNOWN. C

NEW SCOTLAND' YARD HAS RECEIVED RUMORS GROUP IS INTEREST-

DEDEN ELYINO RES SADELINE CLUE AND TIRT THEY REY dE SOL

BEHALE OF OR IN CONCERT WITH ACTOR FRANK SINATRA.

SCOTLAND YARD DESIRES FBI IDENT RECORDS OF ALL CON-

CERNED (IDENT RECORDS OF TOURINE AND BELLO DISSEMINATED TO

NEW SCOTLAND YARD PLUS PASSPORT INFORMATION AND PUBLIC

SOURCE DATA PERTAINING TO CRIMINAL BACKGROUNDS.

INFORMATION

iNC

92-2989-83

REC- 37% 51

18 MAR 28 1962

НЕСКіЛЕЛО

C104

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

& DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

• Airgram

x Cablegram

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT LONDON NO. 533

WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO BRITISH HOME OFFICE FOR CONSIDERAT-

ION OF AN EXCLUSION ORDER AGAINST ALL Y

BUREAU REQUESTED SUCAB ANY CRIMINAL BACKGROUND RE RAFT,

ROSENBLOOM, SOKOL, KLEIN AND OTHER

IN FORM SUITABLE FOR

DISSEMINATION TO NEW SCOTLAND YARD

CHARLES W. BATES

RECEIVED:

5:36 PM

REM

i ad

IS 90M

SAD CC: MR. BRENNAN Salivan

92-2989-83

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

• Assassination Records Collection Aot o1 1992 (14 05c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE. NOTE

Date -

3/20/62

Tourine is well--Knomn hoodlun who

appeared in London with one Paul Bello.

Scotland Yard asked FBI aid in deter-

mining purpose of visit and identitying

Bello.

Several officos have furnished

Infornation which was summarized in

cables to London on 3/15,20/62, Subject

arregodly representing lorida

group in

solling gambring equipment to legar

gambling clubs in London and has now

roturned to U.S. (U) V

DECLASSIFIED BY

ON /0-6-94

JJF

92-2989-83

Asia o: Declassilication

DocId: 32331265

Page

---

## Page 5

Beleased wnder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE

ATF/RoV1-16,2017

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad:

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter SEiTiMeL

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

• Airgram

ex Cablegram

URGENT

3-20-62

TO/DIRECTOR

DECLASSIFIED SARMACIA

N 10-8-94

(VER)

Сандок -

aD's

Do

FROM LEGAT, LONDON

NO. 533

3'or end

CHARLES TOURINE, AKA, EPC.

REBUCAB

MARCH

15 LAST.

TOURINE

AS CHARLES WHITE CHECKED INTO DORCHESTER HOTEL MARCH 6 LAST

FBI -107-990-c

ANO STAYED IN SAME SUITE WITH GEORGE RAFT, MOVIE ACTOR AND

SAMUEL SOKOL, 534 WEST 30TH STREET,

MIAMI, UNITED STATES

PASSPORT NUMBER B

415650.

463-225-6

TOURINE CHECKED OUT MARCH 13 LAST AND WHEREABOUTS

118-382-E → SLAPSY MAXIE ROSENBLOOM,

SLAPSY MAXIE ROSENBLOOM, FORMER BOXER WHO GAVE SIS

OCCUPATION AS MASSOCTATED WITH GEORCE RAFT" WAS PART OF

ENTOURAGE BUT DID NOT

STAY AT DORCHESTER:

=3m

munill Verbert Kei

- WEBRIEL H. KLEIN, 1417 SOUTH SHERBOURNE, LOS ANGEtES

CHECKED OUT MARCH 18 LASTS

WHEREABOUTS ROSENBLOOM, KLETN

NEW SCOTLAND

YARD HAS RECEIVED RUMORS GROUP IS INTEREST=

"ED IN

BUYING INTOYCAMBLING CLUB AND THAT THEY MAY BE ACTING

ON BEHALF

OR

CONCERT WITH ACTOR

FRANK SINATRA. 4X

SCOTLAND YARD DESIRES FBI IDENT: RECORDS OF ALL CON-

CERNED (IDENT RECORDS OF TOURINE AND BELLÓ DISSEMINATED TO

NEW SCOTLAND YARD) PLUS PASSPORT INFORMATION AND PUBLIC

SOURCE DATA PERTAINING TO CRIMINAL. BACKGROUNDS.

INFORMATION

To London +CC large

FBI# 463225C; 10498018

1183825 #we

were Merrell

Herbest klin

A0.0

3/26/62

i to release and i a bou means te a direminated outside i burga rie red a i be ejadis

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (ReV: 3-5-62) •

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans.

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Airgram

Cablegram

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT LONDON NO. 533

WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO BRITISH HOME OFFICE FOR CONSIDERAT-

ION OF AN EXCLUSION ORDER AGAINST ALL. (UL

BUREAU

REQUESTED SUCAB ANY CRIMINAL BACKGROUND RE RAFT;

ROSENBLOOM g

SOKOL, KLEIN AND: OTHER

DATÀ IN FORM SUITABLE FOR

DISSEMINATION- TO NEW SCOTLAND YARD

CHARLES

W. BATES

RECEIVED:

5:36 PM

REM

8:126: 05

S8-4-4

199

Que mr Sulliwan,

43RD CC: NIR. BRENNAN

I Faciate

114! 53

8

so thes

My 19240 1ti

-92-2989-83

H2:;

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE? 11-14-2017

MR/

841 RB

Note).

DECODED

COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

125

seisa?

Airgram

Cablegram

URGENT

3-20-62

TO DIRECTOR

DOCLASSIFTE

oN 10-9-94

• BY

• OPEMACC

7770)

FROM LEGAT, LONDON NO: 533

CHARLES TOURINE, AKA, FPC.

REBUCAB MARCH 15 LAST. TOURINE

AS CHARLES WHITE CHECKED INTO DOACHESTER HOTEL MARCH & LAST

AND STAYED

• IN SAME SUITE WITH GEORDE RAFT, MOVIE ACTOR AND

PASSPORT NUMBER 5 LEET, MIAMI, UNITE STATES

TOURINE CHECKED OUT MARCH 13 LAST AND WHEREABOUTS

UNKNOWN.

SLAPSY MAXIE ROSENBLOOM, FORMER BOXER WHO GAVE HIS

OCCUPATION

AS. "ASSOGTATED WITH GEORGE RAFTY

WAS PART OF

ENTOURAGE BUT DID NOT STAY AT DORCHESTER.

MERRILL H. KLEIN, 1417 SOUTH SHERBOURNE, LOS ANGELES

AND PAQL DECLO ALSO TN

PARTY STAYED AT DIFFERENT HOTEL ANG

CHECKED

• OUT MARCH

AND

BEELO UNKNOWN.

_AST.

WHEREABOUTS ROSENBLOOM, KLEIN

NỀW

SCOTLAND

YARD

• HAS RECEIVED RUMORS GROUP •

INTEREST-

ON BEMALF OF OR IN CONCERT WITH ACTOR FRANK SINATRA•

SCOTLAND YARD DESIRES FBI IDENT RECORDS

ON ALL CON-

CERNED (IDENT RECORDS OF TOURINE AND BELLO DISSEMINATED TO

SOOTLANPOYAROY PLUS PASSPORT INFORMATION AND PUBLIC

SOURCE DATE PERTAINING TO CRIMINAL BACKGROUNZE. D INFORMATION (L

Condor

NYWE CHECH RECION

3/16/6v

• 05 HN,E5

92-

ERI

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rgy: 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

Airgram

Cablegram

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT LONDON NO. 553

WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO BRITISH HOME OFFICE FOR CONSIDERAT

BUREAU REQUESTED SUCAB ANY CRIMINAL BACKGROUND RE RAFT

ROSENBLOOM, SOKOL, KLEIN AND OTHER

TA IN FORM SUITABLE FOR

DISSEMINATION TO NEW SCOTLAND YARD: (

BATES

RECEIVED:

5:36 PM

REM

СОННІЗЕНИ

Bilment

ins

92-2989-83

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32331265 Page 8

---

