# docid-32292428

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10204

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-954

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/18/1964

GAL, ASSOC, ATTORNEY, SGI, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32292428

Page 1

404

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

0 11-3

5734-17763)

DECODEDICOPY

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

7)

AIRGRAM®

2:32 AM DST DEFERRED 6-18-64 EH

VO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 172054

XX TELETYPE

Toison -

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy =

GUS ALEX, AKA., AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6502-C* ADVISED ALEX AND PARAMOUR SUZANNE FUEGER,

RECENTLY DISCUSSED LAVISH RECEPTION HELD FOR ANTHONY

ACCARDO, JR., AT VILLA VENICE EVENING BEFORE WEDDING.

ALEX APPARENTLY ENGAGED IN ARGUMENT WITH WIFE OF MIKE

LNU AT RECEPTION AND WOMAN WAS OBVIOUSLY DRUNK. ALEX

REFERRED TO MIKE AS HAVING A "BIG FAT MOUTH ANYWAY WITHOUT

DRINKING." FUEGER INDICATED THIS WOMAN INTERJECTED

HERSELF INTO A CONVERSATION MIKE AND GUS WERE HAVING.

CG 6758-C* SUBSEQUENTLY ADVISED ALEX VISITED OFFICE OF

HOODLUM ATTORNEY MIKE BRODKIN TO APOLOGIZE FOR THE AFORE -

MENTIONED ARGUMENT HE HAD WITH BRODKIN'S WIFE. ALEX ALSO

TOLD BRODKIN TO WARN HIS WIFE NEVER TO TALK TO HIM LIKE

THAT AGAIN AND BRODKIN APOLOGIZED FOR HIS WIFE'S ACTIONS.

ALEX INDICATED HE HAD OBTAINED A CASE OF CHOICE WINE FOR

THIS OCCASION AND BRODKIN FAILED TO GET ANY BECAUSE THEIR

ASSOCIATES HAD TAKEN ALL OF IT WITHOUT ASKING, INCLUDING

SAM GIANCANA WHO TOOK THREE BOTTLES.

4)

RECEIVED: 3:56 AM EFH

92-3/82-954

REC 30

GN HE TUN 18 1091

JUN

2 4: 1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292428 Page 2

---

