# docid-32319445

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10370-10010

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-J6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: DOJ/CRIM

TITLE :

DATE: 05/05/1977

PAGES:

305

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, ASSASSINATION

MATTERS VOLUME IX

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, MEMO, A/T, LHM, TTY, NOTES, NEWS ARTICLES, LET, NEWSLETTER,

INSERT, FD-302, R/S, S/S, INTERVIEW, STATEMENT

v9.1

DocId: 32319445

42

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

4/11/77

Criminal Division

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

11/22/63

DALLAS, TEXAS

4/6/77

Index: Robent Murray Vanderslice

batta xxxxXxxxxxx an LHM

556:16

G -

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

+62-109060-89

310-10019

DocId: 32319445 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOSE: A review of Jack Ruby's testimony before the Warren

Commission on 6/7/64, Indicates that Ruby testified that he

was at the "Dallas Morning News" building at the time of

Kennedy's assassination on 11/22/63. Ruby advised he went

to the News building at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the

morning of 11/22/63,

to arrange for advertising space for

his night club.

Ruby's testimony was corroborated in part

by the testimony of John William Newnam an Advertising

Department employee of the "Dallas Morning News." Newnam

testifled before the Warren Commission on 6/26/64. No

further attempts being made by our Dallas Division to interview

Robert Murray Vanderslice at this time.

2

350110018

DocId: 32319445

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

4/6/77

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

TROM :

SAC, DALIAS (89-43) (P)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN PITZGERALD KENNEDY,

11/22/63,

DALLAS, 18XAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

00: DALLAS

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original

and four copies of an LIM, dated and captioned as above.

For the information of the Bureau, ROBERT MURRAY

VANDERSLICE (DL 2198-C) was designated a PCT of the Dallas

Office (Dallas File 137-4958), from 7/23/76 until 2/18/11:

He is described as a white male, date or birth 2/20/27, at

Sulphur Springs, Texas, FBI Number 4022042, residing at

502 Monte Vista, Dallas, Texas. VANDERSLICE was last

contacted on 1/24/77. On his previous contacts, he furnished

124/nFormation

general criminal information primarily on Dallas, Texas,

area booknakers.

7/28/76, for services, and $2.89 on 7/28/76 for expenses.

On 3/2/77, SA LAWRENCE H. SANDRI, Dallas, to whom

DI 2198-C was assigned, advised that VANDERSLICE never gave

him any indication that he knew JACK RUBY or anything about

the assassination of President KENNEDY.

On 4/5/77, SA ARGEN I. FUTILENDORE, IRS InteLLigence

Division, Fort Worth, Texas, advised that since VANDERSLICE

gave his consent to have his identity as an IRS source

Bureau (encs - 5)

- Dallas

(5)

DocId: 32319445 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 89-43

revealed to the FBI, that he had no objection to having the

information he is furnishing disseminated to the U. S.

Department of Justice or the House Select Committee on

Assassinations, if that should become necessary. FUHLENDORE

advised that he will continue to make efforts to contact

VANDERSTICE, and advise him to contact the Dallas Office

of the PBI.

Due to the fact that VANDERSTICE appears to be

avoiding being interviewed by the FBI, and Special Agent

ARLEN FUHLENDORE, IRS, since 3/4/77, no further efforts will

be made to contact VANDERSLICE at this time, UACB.

DocId: 32319445

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas, Texas

April 6, 1977

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOLLI EITZCERALD KENNEDY,.

NOVERBER 22, 1963,

DALIAS, TEYAS

On March 2, 1977, Robert 1. Potrykus, Chief,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Dallas,

rexas, hand-delivered a lettar to Ted I. Gunderson,

Special Agent in Charge, the Dallas FBI office.

The

letter is on Internal Revenue Service stationery, and

states as follows:

"Dear Mr, Gunderson:

"Recently, Arlen Fuhlendorf, a Group Manager in

the Dallas Intelligence Division, received information fron

a confidential informant that might be helpful in the

investigation of the Kennedy assassination.

"The informant stated that on the morning of

the assassination,. Ruby contacted him and

asked if he

would

Like

to watch

the flreworks.'

He was with Jacl

Ruby and standing at

the corner of the l'ostal Annex

Building facing the texas School Dook Depository Building

at the tine of the shooting.

Inmediately after the

shooting, Ruby left and headed

toward the

area of the

Dallas Morning

News Building.

"If you desire, Group tanager Arlen Fuhlendorf

can be available to disouss this matter with your agency.

Group Manager FuhlendorE can be contacted at 743-1301.

"Sincerely yours,

"/s/ Robert j, Potrykus

Chiof Intellinence Diviaion"

This document containe

neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the 2BI.

it is the property

or the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

ita contents are not to be Astributed outside

your agency.

1776-1978

THINNSY

DocId: 32319445 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZCERALD. KENNEDY

On the afternoon of March 2, 1977, Special Agent

Udo H. Specht, Dallas FBI Office, attempted

to telephone

Group Manager Fuhlendorf, but he had already gone home for

the day.

on the morning of March 3, 1977, Special Agent

Udo H. Specht, Dallas FBI oftice, telephonically contacted

Supervisor Arlen Fuhlendort, Internal Revenue Service,

Intelligence Division, Dallas, Texas, concerning the

information in the above letter.

Fuhlendorf advised that

it is a policy of the Internal Revenue Service that before

the Internal Revenue Service can release the identity of

an informant, that it has to obtain the consent of the

informant. He will attempt to contact his informant and

obtain this consent.

He will contact Special Agent Specht

as soon as he has contacted his informant. Once the consent

is obtained, he will introduce Special Agent Specht to the

informant, in order that the FBI can interview him.

This

Informant

• has been out of town guite a bic, and it might

take a few days to contact him.

advised

During the afternoon of March & 1977, Mx. Fuhléndorf

that his informant is Bob Vanderslice,

and that he

is in his office now.

ne is

sending Vanderslice to the

FBI office to be interviewed, and that Vanderslice will be

at the Dallas FBI offico at 2:30

PM, March 4, 1977.

At 2:25 PM; March 4, 1977, Bob Vanderslice, who

furnished his address as 502 Monte Vista, Dallas, Texas,

Telephone Number 327-7656, telephonically contacted Special

Agent Ude H. Specht and stated that on the way to the FBI

office, he bumped his lip, and that it is bleeding severly.

He said he found out a few days ago that he has cancer of

the 11g, and also has a herpes sore in the area where his

1ip is bleeding.

He stated that he will be at the far

office at 8:00 AM on March 7, 1977, to furnish the

information.

Bob Vanderslice did not personally appear at the

Dallas FBI office on March 7, 1977, nor did he telephonically

contact the office in an effort to

make other interview

arrangements.

2

310-10086

DocId: 32319445 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASSASSINATIOX OP PRESIDENT

JOHN DITZEBRALD KENNEDY

At 3:00 PM, March 7, 1977, Special Agent Specht

telephonically contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence.

A

wonan, who identified herself as Urs. Vanderslice, alviaod

that her husband was not at home, and that she would give

him the message

to contact ME: Specht*

On the afternoon of March 7, 1977, efforts were

made

to contact Group Manager Arlen Fuhlendorf, Internal

Revenue Service, Dallas, Texas, but his secretary advisod

that he is at a

meeting all week long. A message vas left

to have Mr. Puhlendorf contact Special Agent Specht,

On March 14, 1977, Arlen I. Fuhlendore, Group

Manager, Internal Revenue Sorvice, Intelligence,

Dallas,

Texas, telephonically contacted Special Agent Specht, FBI,

Dallas, Pexas, and advised that he was at a school all last

weok, and therefore, could not get in contact with Special

Agent Specht-

He was advised that Bob Vanderslice to date

has not made himself available to be interviewed by the Dallas

office of the FBI.

Fuhlendorf advised that Vanderslice has

been furnishing information to Internal Revenue Service in

connection with a special enforcement program that Internal

Revenue Service Intelligence has concerning the criminal

elenent.

Vanderslice has furnishod Information to Intomal

Revenue Service on local Dallas bookmakers.

Tuhlendort

advised that as far as he knows, that the information that

Vanderslice furnished has boen zellable. Fuhlendor! advised

that when he last talked to Vanderslice on March 4, 1977,

that Vandersiloe asked him that if he talked to the FBI, What

use would be made of the information.

Fuhlandorf told

Vanderslice that he might get a free trip to Washington to

tentify before a Congzessional Cormittee concerning his

Infomation,

Fuhlendorf stated that Vandersiloe might have

had second thoughts after he told hin that,

Fuhlendorf advised that several weeks ago,

specifio date unrecalled, he met Vandersiice at the restaurant

located on the tventy titth floor or the nanor house,

Commerce Street, Dallas, texas.

Fuhlendorf stated that

Vanderslice talked to him about Candy Bary, a former stripper

in one of Jack Ruby's nightclabs.

This conversation led to

3

35701999

DocId: 32319445

Page

8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOIN FIESGERALD

KENNEDY

Vanderalice discussing his knowledge of Ruby.

Vanderalleo

told him that on the morning of the assassination, Jack

Ruby called him on the telephone and asked him if he would

liko to go to the Presidential Parade with him, and it he

would

"Like to watch the fireworks,"

Vanderslice said

that

he was with Jack Ruby and standing at the corner of the

Postal Annex Building facing the Texas School Book Depository

Building, at the tine of the shooting.

Imnediatoly after

the shooting, Ruby left and headed toward the area of the

Dallas Norning News Bullding, without saying anything to

him-

Vandorslae also told him that after Jack Ruby

vas arrested for killing Lee Harvey Osvald, that he was

also arrested on an unzelated criminal charge, and incarcerated

at the Dallas County Jall. Vanderalice got to Know Ruby

better in the County Jail, since he was a trustee at the jail,

and as Ruby's mind began to deteriorate, he would perform

services for him, like bring him his food and reading

material, because Ruby became very suspleious and felt

that someone was trying to poison his food and do him harm.

Office to be dissentnated to Congressman Downing's Connittee.

The National Office returned the memorandum to Dallas, Texas,

and told Internal Ravenue Service to disseminate the

information to the FBI in Dallas.

Mr. Fuhlendorf advised that he has not seen

the memorandum since Robert J. Potrykus, Chief, Intelligence

Division, Internal Revenue Service, Dallas, Texas, had it

prior to delivering the letter to

• the FBI in Dallas.

to the FBI, but he did not respond to that reguest, and

stated that he did not know where the memorandun was

Fuhlendori will attempt to call Vanderslice to deterine why

he has not made hinself available for interview.

4

5190190

DocId: 32319445

Page

9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASSASSINAVION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN

FITEGERALD KENNEDY

Me. Fuhlendorf is being transferred to Port

Worth, Texas, as of March 15, 1977, and can be reached

at 817-334-3381.

Speedal Agent Udo F. Specht, FBI, Dallas, Texas,

texophonically contacted Mr. Vanderslice's residence

during the morning, afternoon, and evening hours on

March 11; March 14; March 15,1 March 21, March 22; March 24,

Apxil 4, and April 5, 1977, but no one respanded.

On March 22, 1977, Special Agent Udo HI. Specht,

FE4, Dallas, Texas, personally went to Mr. Vanderslices

residence, 502 Monte Vista, Dallas, texas, but no one couto

be located at the residence.

A message was left at the

zesidence for Mr. Vanderslice to contact Mr. Specht,

On March 29, 1977, Spectal Agent Specht telephonically

contacted Mr. Vanderslico's residence, and his wife

answered the telephone. She stated that she gave him the

message to contact it.

Specht, and that she also received

the note that Nr. Specht left in the mailbox.

She advised

that her husband

has been out of town, and should be

home sonetime this week.

She advisod

that she will give

him the message to contact Mr. Specht.

On April 5, 1977, Arlen I. Fuhlendorf, Special

Internal Revenue Service, Intelligence Diviaion,

Port Worth, Texas, telephonically advised that he has

utilized Bob Vanderslice as an informant since March 4,

1976, and another Internal Revenue Service Agent had contact

him boginning sonatime In December, 1975-

Fahlendorf

advieed that Internal Revenue Service has been using him

in their special enforcement program concerning illegal

criminal activities.

As a result of infornation furnished

by Vanderslice, Internal Revenue Service has opened up

approximatoly fifteen tax investigations, and thirty audit

oxaninations -

No advised that in the past he has considered

Vanderslice rellable, but that he does not know whether or

not Vanderslice was truthful concerning the information

ho

furnished about Jack Ruby +

He advised that he has

not

personally talked to Vanderslice since March 4, 1977, and that

Vandersilee has not returned his telephone calls.

Fuhlendort

advised that he has talked to Vandersiloe's wife twice since

5

DocId: 32319445

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOIN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

March 4, 1977, and left. a message with her for Vanderslice

to call

him.

The last time he talked to her was last

Wednesday or Thursday, and she told hin that Vanderslice

was in the wichita Falls, Texas, areas trying to "male

a buck here and there."

Fuhlendorf stated that on March 4, 1977,

Vanderslice gave hin every indication that he was going

to keep his appointment with the. FBI, and tole him that

he Inew where the office was located.

he advised that

the possibility exists that Vanderslice might have been

untruthful, or he could have gotten cold feet because of

all the publicity surrounding the reinvestigation of the

President Kennedy assassination.

DocId: 32319445

Page 11

---

