# docid-32337086

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

_Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90136-10129

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-70973-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

09/16/1959

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : LHM, INC AT

v9.1

DocId: 32337086

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

DATE: 11-14201/ ohn F. Kennedy Assassination Recondar

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

FBI.

Date:

9/16/59

Transmit the following in -

Via

AIR TEL

'LAIN TEXT

(lype in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(109-480)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (64-86)

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY MATTERS

IS -CUBA

mone soon breadtfa.

Transmitted herewith are eleven coples of a

letterhead memo captioned CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY MATTERS.

One copy of the enclosed memo is being furnished to Miami

Division for Information In view of the interest of that

office In Cuban Revolutionary Matters. (4)

The Information set forth therein was furnished

on 9/11/59 by EMERSON LUKE MAYEAUX, Fordoche, La., to st

JULIAN A. MARTIN.

MAYEAUX has furnished Information in

CLÄSSIFIED BY 5668 S00/GCL

25X CINGL

7/23/48 nick

DECLASS

In contact.

The Identity of MAYEAUX should be protected

at his request.

The enclosed letterhead memo 1s being classified

"confidential"

as It reflects Bureau

• Interestin a diplo-

matIc offIcIal of a foreign government (9)lu)

This Information 1s being furnishe. üo the Bureau

for Intelligence purposes only in a form suitable for dis-

semination and no Investigation 1g being conduoted by the

New Orleans Division pertaining to matters set forth in the

aforementioned letterhead memo. LE

72173

vitate

ENCLOSURE

159 SEP 22 1959

BACHMAN

11) (ALR

1)

AMR) (105-1360)

2

3 550.19 105

21T52

MEGA CRA

DATE FORM I/MAM

OW. FORW.

• SHOWN

1204

90

Approved:

7 SEP

28

DATH OF REVEN

Special Agent in Charge

18-290

12 0 10-8

DocId: 32337086

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BURIAD OIOMINCATION

New Orleans, Louisiana

September 16, 1959

SECRET

Re: CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY MATTERS

On September i1, 1959, Information was furnished

have source can reton one on un of a an eig

United States on September 2, 1959, that there are Russian

Intelligence agents in Cuba;

that FIDEL CASTRO has bought

weapons from Czechoslovakia and that one of BATISTA's former

generals, (FNU) LOPEZ, paid

one Captain MORGAN approximately

$00,000.00 In cash some months ago for aiding the Dominican

Republic; that it was the same MOrGAN who was highly pubit

cized in

the newspapers for delivering men and materials to

CASTRO's men in Cuba under such conditions that the men were

captured as Dominican Repubile agents.

This same source ad-

vised that the Dominican official also expressed the opinionS

that Dominican Republic officials believed MORGAN was stiLl

working for that country not withstanding his actions.

This memorandum is loaned to you by the FBa, and

neither 1t nor its contents

are to be distributed outside

the agency to which loaned.

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON-FCIM

II,

• DATE OF REVIEW

10124/979

classied his

b9 mac

Declassin or

MORAR

ONF

HEREAVES OICLAGSSNFLED EXCEPT

WARE SHORE SAGERVISE.

GRRESWISEO,

ENTIAL

7/23/98

GLASGIFED BY 5668-5c0/Mt

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

OFK)

105-70973-

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

DocId: 32337086

Page 3

---

