# docid-32303540

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10284-10052

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2918-163

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, OT

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/18/1966

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/16/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32303540

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released uter the Joln F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Coltectio Aut of 1992 141 USe 2107 Hoted.

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL CORRESPOTDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED;

THE COMMISSIÖNER-

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

TOUTE COF RESPONDANCE DOIT

ÊIRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE

ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

YOUR

NO.

VOTRE N° 92-10

OUR NO.

NOTRE N°

HQ-330-Q-1 (Supp. 10)

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE :

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

March 16, 1966.

Mr. Moss Lee Innes

c/o United States Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Re: Ilando CAPOLINO - Brooklyn, N.Y•;

Guido CAPOLINO - Brooklyn, N.Y.;

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED Samuel (Sam) MANNARINO -

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE 87241376

New Kensington, Pa.

DATE 8/36/86

BYGIRJAIGEL

In our correspondence dated November 23,

1965 on the CAPOLINOs et al, it was mentioned that the

Oznade

good reputation with the Provincial Game Department and

operates the Beaver Ranch

Outfitters, P.O. Box 88, Cheywynd,

B.C.

recently, PRUCKI complained to our Detach-

ment at Prince Georgé, B.C.

that he is being subjected to a

malicious campaign by the CAPOLINOs to discredit his reputation

as a big game guide and outfitter. According to Mr. PRUCKL,'

New York 11432, is writing letters to various persons nathe

United states trying to bring discredit to PRUCKI's reputation.

-PRUCKI advised our members that, in the Fall of 1964,

he was a

guide for Robert AGNELLO and that AGNELLO had left B.C. after

his hunting expedition very satisfied with the treatment given

to him by Mr. PRUCKI. However, since the CAPOLINOs returned

New York from their hunting expedition with PRUCKL in September

1965, apparently,

there is some indication that the CAPOLINOs

now asked Robert AGNELLO to support their disapproval of

PRUCKL.

According to PRUCKI, there is some suggestion that the

CAPOLINOS, by some unknown means,

are pressuring AGNELLO into

supporting their attack against PRUCKL.

From investigation and information received

to date, it appears that PRUCKL's accusations are factual and

2918-16

INNOTOSURE

...

DOEIA: 32303540 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-2-

it appears that the CAPOLINOs and Robert AGNELLO

could have more than one motive in mind in their

present vindictiveness against Mr. PRUCKL.

che circumstances, we would appreciate any backgroune

information on Robert AGNELLO.

. Jones,

Asst.

Orficer

in Charge,

Criminal Investigation Branch.

912-2918-163

foreign

DocId: 32303540

Page 3

---

