# docid-32289797

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-9-974

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

-TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/28/1962

9

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

THP, TESUR, FERRARO, FRANK, GAL, PIERCE, RALPH,

ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/17/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

DocId: 32289797

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017, *

CG 9% 350

HANNEBERG or whether HANNEBERG is to sponsor these two workers

for jobs on another payroll of the City of Chicago through his

patronage quota as a Republican Ward Conmitteenan; but the

tormer is the more likely.

The reference to d'ARCo 1e

obviously a celerence to JOHN D'ARCO, the Alderman and Democratic

Ward Comnitteenan of the First Ward of the City of Chicago who

1o gonerally recognized as the leader of the "West Side bloc."

Tho

reference by PORCARO and BLASI to "MOl" and to 'MOONEY"

820

• references to GIANCANA• !

JIMMY ADDUCCI is a former member of the "wost Side

bioe" who was a Democratic Ward Committeeman and a member of the

Illinois Legislature,

who was known approximately a dozen

years ago as one of the stronger leaders of the "West Side bloe."

He also had powerful hoodlum connections and controled handbooks.

in his area on the west Side of Chicago.

The reference to GIROLAMI is obylously a roferenco to

CG 6498vPC, who is generally considered to be a leader of the

"West side bloo", but who has advised that he is making every

attempt to combat the influence of GIANCANA and his associates

in Chicago politics without making an open issue of it. From

the above conversation it would appear that GIROLAMI recently

refused GIANCANA's suggestion that he make Jobs wailable to

PORCARO.

It is noted that CG 6498-PC has more patronage Jobs

avallable to him than practically any other Chicago polltician

due to the fact that he not only has 275 Jobs under his command

as Democratic Ward Committeeman of the 28th Ward but also has

71 jobs under his command as Clork of the Probate Court.

He also

is influential in öbtaining jobs due to the fact that he is a

member of the Cook County Central Committee which 1s responsible

for slating individuals for Democratic nominations in Cook

County.

PORCARO's reference to the Sheriff would apparently

indicate that GIANCANA ordered GRANATA to contact Sheriff FRANK

SAIN concerning the two jobs desired for PORCARO but that GRANATA

preferred to contact HANNEBERG.

The above is indicative of the control GIANCANA

exercises over the leaders of the "West Side bloc."

GALE

- 9

DocId: 32289797

Page 2

---

