# docid-32301354

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10189

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-338

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

04/08/1969

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SHF, CHAPMAN, ABE, CHAPMAN, ISABELLE, TRA, POLIT

ACT, RCF, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

Beleased under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection ict. of 19g2

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32301354

Page 1

137

---

## Page 2

NY 100-42479

During conversation with TANG, CHAPMAN, learned

that PERRY's office was headquarters not only for PERRY's

operations, but also for the London operations of TANG and

EPSTEIN.

DicK

48-

TANG and EPSTEIN were supposealy in close touch sufla

with the American scene through RICHARD COLERANK, husband of

travelled to iondon

It 1s noted RICHARD C. FRANK returned from London

on 10/5/63, and it is believed he met TANG at that time. subject

nad also planned travel to London at the same time, but was

nable to

obtan e eat apore e also noted on 5/2/59 his

"China Daily News"

On 8/20/63, NY 4112-S* advised subject had in her

possession a letter from TANG dated April 17, 1963, addressed to

we would be very happy indeed.. You know the working

conditions and you know the kind of people we need. It would

be most welcome if you can recommend, some people for us.

you know the procedure.

All they have to. do is bring a

letter

of reimaust, of course. "11 take care of them. Expenses will

Subject and husband had travelled to China around

1959.

Information from CIA dated March 3, 1969, captioned

"Role of the Informational Liaison Department in a chinese china

Mission Abroad"

able to. identify, among other individuals,

an ILD officer probably concerned with the United States.

LIAO also Identified TANG as a personal acquaintance.

pro-Peking groups in the

US, Including, but not limited to the

FRANKS and JAMES LEE, as well as his knowledge of pro-Chinese

Communist publications in the US, noting TANG had been Editor

of the "China Daily News"

, NYC.

- 2 -

NW 54464 DooId: 32301354 Page 2

---

