# docid-32302895

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10407

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-401762-5TH NR 179

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/21/1973

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

RCF, ASSOC, TELEPHONE TOLL CALLS, EMP, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32302895

127

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the dohn

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 111 USe 210%Phote).

IT 10066241

SECRET

NY T-2 10

06

8 a0 reported in aferanced

: Bos bon

Letter.

IX 1-2 1e a confidentiss souzac

zeferenced Boston

letter.

1I% T-3 te SS 3272-9 as reportod in rofèrenced

Doston letter.

letter

MINTON

TY DIA LOXEN 6202/

las reported in Phitade phie

Bureau dated l/

00,

emptioned "WILLIAN N.

N7 1-€ Le CSTY 12516-0 emtacted by SA GERALD A.

MY 9-Y taXIs 3029-543nd

Sr 7-8 10 a source in a

position

to know as sported

In referenced Newarts lettera

anted 8/23/72 and 22/3/72-

NY 149 1oy 11990-87(044)

My 2-10 1e

• 1070-3

reportod in roterenced

Ment letter.

MARTIN.

Investigation in Lult conduced at levart,

Boston,

ond Philodelphie vero firat reported on the apozopriate

referenced letters.

Now Tark tolephone records were checked by BA

TRÀNK J. DUYERS; Credit records by SC JOA WILD; American

Dipress records by SA DAVID JENKINS; MYCED secords by SA

AUGUSO JA WICKs end Boond os llectione recorde by 3C

CHARGES A SCLARINE.

closed: Miesle 100-113248 (Burize 100-408215)

roters to a HARRY GRABIPELD.

BoNever,

1c 10 not yet known

SECRET

DocId: 32302895

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FReleased/under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Cöllection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

KY 200-42479

SIX 100-107383

SECRET

whether this individual le identical to the one mentsoned

in the LN

RICHARD FRANK has

been knot te have consorted with

cold girls in the pest.

It do presumed that the ChagA

SBAGMAN In WIN 40 cimilarly employed although she has no

prostitution record under that

subject's

negative.

It 18 noted that MY

durins this

reporting Mies note that to as one tone any

contacte or suoyecte ta the nonut contact wach m

We me won does here be mate oned se

gain cocepe to subjects.

It 16 noted, however;

that the Chinero wing of the VeCErA has left the organizatton,

and han

rotumod to how Yort Osty Iron his overcoan

roteins

alert to actretos of the USOPPA and the FRA

Roterenced, Bureau letter requested How

York

• Office

to revier subjeco sides in en entore to pimoint specifie

inabancon of foreign ceptonaga activity on.

thoir part.

Investigation

concerning: the subjects encompassea nearly

30 volures ot

the New York Office and dates fzom the

early 39400.

A complete zovion of the above hos been

concuered wi chout uncovering ony peelzte inatances of esptonage

detivities

their part ta the clasaical sense, othor than

Inferences

that may

bexamun from information previouely

ratnashod: in referenced Not Tor Metter of 9/14/12.

noted that

the Bureau, dotermined this infornation to be

insufftelent to tatelligonse respecto

to mazront recontact

with try h2l7es in light of the

"Keith Decision.

Consequently,

SECRET

DocId: 32302895

Page 3

---

