# docid-32296964

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RÉCORD NUMBER: 124-10218-10240

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-1487, 1488

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SAC, PH

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/25/1965

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ABR, TESUR, INSTAL, OFF

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32296964

Page 1

157

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

6. Type of case involved:

7. Connection or status of subject in the case:

775. South 8th Street is property owned by ANGEIO Bruno.

He

periodically meets with his criminal associates, including all

of the hierarchy of ICN in Philadelphia in rear office, 775

South 8th Street.

8. Specific information being.sought:

Information being sought 1s illegal activities of ANGELO BRUNO,

text of conversations BRUNO has with ICN associates, and to

develop information that could possibly be utilized

prosecution of BRUNO or his associates.

9. Reasons for believing the specific information will be obtained by the

technical surveillance:

See ff? and fo. PH 614-C-TE has advised that BRUNO continues

periodically to meet criminal associates, rear office 775 South

8th Street.

These meetings usually pertain to situations where

BRUNO shrouds the meetings in secrecy.

10. Importance of case and subject:

Former PH 623-C* has indicated that it is extremely important

to cover activity of ANGELO BRUNO.

-2 -

DocId: 32296964 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

11. Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

be obtained by any other means.

12. Risks of detection involved:

Risk of detection involved appears to be remote. A specially

constructed minimite was used.

This minimite, fabricated by

the Bureau, was made to fit into an old telephone cable no

longer in use. It was installed and wrapped with the same

tape that was

used during the original installation of this

is not believed that the minamite could be located.

There are no telephone facilities in this room and it

13. Probable length of technical surveillance:

90 day trial period.

14.

Request made for technical surveillance by

• any outside agency

(name specific official, title and agency) :

None

- 3 -

DocId: 32296964 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI

(92-2717)

DATE:

3/25/65

SAC, Philadelphia (92-444 Sub J) (P)

JUNE

SUBJECT:

ANGELO BRUNO, aka

00: Phila.

Xcong.

ReBuLot 1/27/6Pa

subjects urice,

Symbol number PH 752-C* has been assigned.

For the information of the Bureau, a special

minimite unit was utilized.

This special unit was

fabricated by the FBI Laboratory to meet the demands

of this specific coverage and the installation was

made by sound trained Agents, J. ROBERT PEARCE and

ALBERT L. PIERCE.

Appropriate FD 142 fOllows.

FE. 2692-2217-1489

12 MAR 30: 1965

- Bureau - RM

I Phila.

Roky

DWB: ERG

"(3)

131 15 33 66000 .

6

APR 12 1965

DocId: 32296961 Page 1

---

