# docid-32356972

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10103-10107

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

¡44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WH 53294 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DAVIES, ALBERT C.

TO: MEMO FOR THE RECORD

• FOR THE RECORD RE MEETING ON 6 FEBRUARY 1963.

: 02/07/1963

SUBJECTS : CUBA

ANTI-CASTRO

WITHHELD

LEONARDO PLAN

GEORGE VOLSKY

SZULC, TAD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEF

CLASSIFICATION : SECR

RESTRICTIONS :

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

MIAMI; INCLUDES COVERING TAB SEPARATOR

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10103-10107

NH 53294

DocId: 32356972

Page

---

## Page 2

Paul the

7 February

4963

RUNK

MENIORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUINCT: Meeting with AMCAPE-1, & February 1963

TAD SZULC

1, The undersigned not with AlcAps liat his residence

Tuesday evening, 6 February 1965.

The main purpose of the contact was to discuss au

anti-Castze plan to "split the regime"

surfaced by AMCAPE -1/

to the PBRUMEN Coordinating Committee thru My. HURWITCH of

STATE

IQDACID (sce Attachment A) •

L BQUISOd :AMCALE-1

- 1/ that I had

read the plan and we were interested in

n fully exploring its

possibilitles. AMCAPE-I stated that he discussed the plan

Monday evoning with Mesars. COTTREll and HURWITCH and felt

sure that we would got the plan for comment although he

did not expect such fast action. His first thought was to

bring the plan to GPIDEALas he has had a etanding invitation

for direct contact on PBRUMEN matters with/G'IDEAL since

res

RENNEDY

November 1961 to contact either/GPIDEAL, GIFOCUS,, Or Mr.

McGeorge BUNDY.

He decided against this ayproach and that

the normal channel to the Coordinating Group would be more

proper.

Initially, AMCAPI-]

was reluctant to reveal who

RubT.

KENNEDY

originated the LEONARDO PLAir but did say that. Dr. Nestor

MORING wrote a good portion.of 1t. We stated that in

order to decide on a course. of action we would need more

detail. It was pointed out that the plan was not clear na

to who would crew the ships, run communications, conduct

necessary training, and that it would be most desirable to

talk to those responsible for the plan. (AMCAPE-1, agreed

and stated he was going

• to "level"

with me although he

realized that revealing his contact would compromise his

source of information.

He said he would rely on our dis-

cretion to safeguard

his source

and treat it as secret and,

In his judgment, the importance of the LEONARDO PLAN

warranted such

disclosure. He then contacted his source by

telephone in my presence.

страст

---

## Page 3

3.

'AMCAPE-l identified the person he was calling as

"George"

and said that he had taken his plan up with bis

frlende here in Washington, and that 1t was AMCAPE-1%9

suggestion that "George' and whoever he thought he should

bring along should come up to Washington for consultation.

He asked if a trip this weekend would be convenient and

"George" apparently agreed. When questioned as to who else

"George' should bring along, he sald that outside of Di:

MOREND the other 3 closely involved would be out of their

elonent dealing with Washington representatives. \AMCAPE-]

then revealed that "George", nicknamed "Chico", was, li

fact, George VOLSKY; I Iriend of his for the past 3 years.

He stated that he considered VOLSKY one of the most

informed exiles on Cuban internal affairs and that be was,

In fact, his contact for most of his important information

emanating from inside Cuba.

He referred to him as to "our

man in Havana' even though he is residing in Mlant, Florida.

related a short biographical sketch of VOLskY.

George VOLSKY (apparently true name) is a 36-year old

male,

born in Poland. He was in the Polish air force, was clptured

by the fussians and interned in a Russian piison camp.

later, he Joined the Royal Air Force and, while in England;

met a

Cuban girl who is the daughter of the RON ROVERO

(phoenetic) famlly whom he subsequently married, went to

Cuba where he acquired Cuban citizenship. His wife's

Lamily sot up VOLSKY in a sign business (neon signs, Coca

Cola sign painting contracts and the like) in which

he

prospered." By the nature of his' business, ho traveled

extensively throughout the provinces. of Cuba and made many

friends.

Like others, VOLSKY became disenchanted with the

castro regime when they intervened both his wife's family

and his own business enterprises, and be spont the latter

part of 1959 and most of 1960 actively supporting the

"underground" activities. AMCAPE-1, of his own knowledge,

knew of inatances of VOLSKY transporting explosives and

hand and shoulder weapons in VOLSKY's private car. Durin

the May 1961 G-2 roundup, VOLSKY was imprisoned in Cabana

prison and when a quantity of these prisoners were released,

VOLSKY luckily was ablo to leave Cuba with his wife by

virtue of having a valid United States visa in his passport.

/ANCAPE-L, through Paul BETHEL, then USIA field station chief

"In Miami, procured a Job for VOLSKY as a contract employee

of USIA in their Miani office. VOLSKY has kept his internal

,Cuban contacts and passes on the information to /AMCAPI-1.

VOLSKY's sister-in-law 1s and has been a lifelong friend of

JuAnita CASTRoand furnishes, what AMCAPE-1] considers vital

intormation, by means

of this friendship to VOLSKY.

ANCAPE- 1

- 2 -

SECRET

7.8 in 260 bland

4H 53294-DocId: 32356972 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

AGI

revealed that Major PINIELO

(red beard) No. 2 man in the

Ministry of the Interior was in contact with VOLSKY when

ho, PINIERO, telephoned to Miami during the October crisia

and stated, in effect, that'ridel. CASTRO was mad as he

felt the Russians had sold the Cubans down the river."

ContInuing On WItA VOLSKY, ANCAPE-Listated that VOLSKY 1s

masterninding the LEONARDO PLAN and is mainly assisted by

DI.

MORENO.

DI. MORENO was once a 20th of July Movemeut

hember and was also part of Faure Chomon's Second Front of

the Escambrey Group.

estated i atly, that the

Tata nostale purs tasters

LEONARDO PLAN was not sponsored by any one group. It owed

no allegience nor did it want contact with Miro CARDONA

755144445739

and that 1t did no

the Florida

area.

want to dent with KUBARkers!

4. /ANCAPE-I said that he would explain to VOLSKY and

DI. MORENO that the operational professionalism needed in

support of their plan would, of necessity, be furnished by

KUBARK. He did not anticipate any difficulty in this

regard. It was then agreed that KUBARK representatives

would meet with ANCAPE and the two LEONARDO PLANers this

coming weekend here in Hashington to further explore the

fessibllity of their plan.

AMCAPE- 1

returned to the subject of Juanite CASTRU

and stated that she was presently in mexico but mould return

to Havana this coming Saturday. He said, of his own

knowledge, he knew that Juanita CASTRO had beon sympathetic

to anti-regime forces and had lent discreet help to them

mainly by keeping her eyes and ears open.

le related an

incident which occurred about June of 1960 when two ODENVY

FRE DERMAN

agents (accredited as attaches to the U. S. Embassy)

PRETTYHAN and SWEET were picked up by the G-2. (AMCAP5-]'*

first knowledge of this came fron Juanita CASTRO directly

to ANCAPE-1 and stated as a varning that 1f any of his

friends vere engaged in anti-goverment activitles, he should

warn then.

6. AMCAРЕ-1

asked 11 I had seen last Sunday's

(3 February) "New York Times" article under hig by-line

about castro's island fort.

I stated that I had not received

it as yet so he let me read his only copy.

I complimented

him on his article and he stated it was very helpful that

he was able to chock out with us most of the salient points.

- 3 -

49491

Page 1

---

## Page 5

SECRET

7.

ARCAPE-l is of the firm belief that the concept

envisaged by the LEONARDO PLAN 1s the one sure way of

splitting the regime and that the time 1a NOW. He stated

he is at a loss to understand why there is not a huge

psychological warfare effort presently being conducted

against TRUMEN. He further feels that it is self-evident

that the Castro regime is engaged in such an effort against

the United States as evidenced by some, of the planted

misinfornation emanating from PBRUMEN.

8.

The meeting lasted approximately 2 hours and

ended at 1940 hours.

Attachment:

As stated

ALBERT C. DAVIES

LIT. Col. on miliTARy DETAIL To WaH l

(CUBA)

SEGRET,

HH 53294

DocId:32756972

Page 5

---

## Page 6

OPERATION "'LEONARDO"

OBJECTIVES:

To establish contact with elements

within the Government, Rebel Arny and Militia, In order to

panalize into action their present anti-communist feeling

and induce those who maintain a passive attitude but who

are potentially suscoptible to turn against the Regime,

to act now.. The future plan of action and the size and de-

velopment of the present operation would be determined af

ter first contacts are made and information thus gathered,

Is evaluated, However, "Leonardo" should be considered as

merely a first step towards coordination of anti-Castro.

elements within the Cuban Government, for producing an in-

ternal upheaval.

It is the opinion of people with con-

tacts In Cuba, that the moment to act is now, because the

conditions for action are ripening steadily. Reliable 1n-

formation from the Island points out to the gradual inter

nal softening of the Castro Regime, to tonsions existing

among its members, and to the effect President Kennedy's

words had in the highest governmental Cuban circles who

are said to have acknowledged with sympatby his phrase

that "I am confident that all over the island of Cuba, in

the Government Itself, in the Army, in the Militias, there

are many who. have viewed with dismay the destruction

of Ireedom faith and who are determined to restore that

HH 53294 DocId:32356972 Page 6

---

## Page 7

treedon so that Cuban people may once more govern themselves".

Thie phrase is the leit-notif of "Leonardo".

2:

MODUS OPERANDI:

ÄMTRUNK-21

LEONARDO 1: Two men, Enrique Cayade Elvera 24,

and Antonio Garcia Perez 29, would disembari near Funta

Jijira, between Boca de Jaruco and Santa Crus del Norte.

At thie very place (Punta J1f1ra) & small fain, property of

Antonio Garcia Perez 18 located, where his father and a local

laborer are llving. Carcia Inther's car is always on the

premises and would ve used to take the two men to lavana.

Enrique Cayado's fanily 1s In Havana and one of his friends,

Ilsa Maria Negrin, secretary of Jose Rebellon, leader of

University Students Federation (PEU), can be counted to

serve also as his cover and guide. In order to determine the

present attitude of military and civilian officialg who have

possibillties to organize or speed up the internal upheaval,

the following contacts would be used: (A) Ur. Jorge Vels;

(B) Comandaute Jose Duarto; (C) Miss JuanitA Castro Huz.

Jorge Vals and Jose Duarte have widespread

contacts within the Governent and it 1s known that Juanita

Castro, Fidel Castro's sister, is also helping the under-

ground. She is currently in Mexico.

Enrique Cayado and Antonio Garcle would return

to the U.S. after two or three weeks, with messages,

opinions and suggestions fron their contacts in Cubs.

- 2 -

OrAT

---

## Page 8

SEGRETI

LEONARDO II: Three disembarcation potts

are planned for this operation: a) the outer keys off Santa

Clara Bay (Mataizas province), b) keys off Calbarten, c)

keys off Corraltllo area (Las Villas province).

Santa Clara

Bay keys are thought most advisable as they are inhabited

by fishermen and charconl workers only and military patrols

visit them very infrequently, because of extremely difficult

living conditions there. Two men employed in this mission:

De. Nestor Moreno 41, and Isquel Diaz y' Seleue 23, would

use one of the fishermen (who are known to be willing to

work against Castro and had

worked with them before), to go

to the

mainland and proceed to Cardenas with the message to

arrange a meeting with Conandante Ramon Guin or a person he

designates. The round trip to Cardenas might take two or

three days.

If conditions are favorable and

a meeting can :

be arranged at once, the two men would go inland. However,

if the rendezvous with. Cuban contacts cannot take place

immediately, they would have to return to Key Sal or any

other base and go back on the date or dates previously fixed

by the message. -

Through Comandante Guin, who Yorks in INRA

and travels around the country, and through anti-Castro army

and civilian elements already active in Cardenas and Marti,

the following army officers would be contacted initially:

Comandante Guerra, Comandante Parra, Conandante Jose Pinares,

Capitan Manuel Avila, Capitan Lawton.

Fron there on the

contacts would be enlarged.

060022

21 13291 DocId: 32306972 Page 3

---

## Page 9

SECRET

The above mentioned officers were ap-

proached before Pig's Bay and agreed to participate in Re-

bel Army uprising in Las Villas province as a part of ti

ternal-external anti-Castro plan. After Play Giron, which

upset that plan, they remained in the Government and

said

to be disposed to do it again.

3.- EUQIPMENT:

A 25 or 27 speed boat which can navigate

in shallow waters and can cruise at 40 knots. Identifica

tion documents, Cuban money and small amount of arms.

Data about Cuban sea patrols in Havana and Matanzas provinces,

equipment for communtcations,

once contacts are established.

4. - GENERAL OBSERVATIONS:

It is considered that although the major-

ity.of officials whom the participants of the missions plan

to

talk to have no political ambitions and will act against

Castro for purely Ideological reasons, minimum of assurances

and promises have to be offered. It is also a

concensus of

optaton, that once initial steps are successfully accomplished

an additional number of persons should be uned for the devel

opment of "Leonardo", working always in operational coordin

ation. Each of them are known to have frituds within the

Cuban Government and their personal and representative

NW 53291 DecId: 32356972 Page 9

---

## Page 10

-SEGRET

Intervention could help swaying.

many men of the Regime who

would trust more the seriougness of the enterprise. The

following non are suggested for participation in the next

stages of "Leonardo";

(1) Pr. laul Chibas, ex-Rebel Army Major.

(2) Raul Enrandels, ex-Rebel Army Captain,

Hubert Hatos group.

(3)

Aldo Vera, ex-Rebel Army Major, ASSASS'iN'ATE)

(4) Enrique Barroso Dorta,

@X-Robel Army Lloutenant.

(5)

Jullo Cesar Alonso,

eX-Cuban Navy Captain.

(6)

Marlo Fontela, ex-CTC leader, has contacts with

Rebel Army and agrarian leaders in the provinces.

(7) Reinaldo Cruz (Simon), ex-Cuban Alr Force capt.

(8) Francisco Illas, ex-MilItia Captain.

(9)

Dr. Antonio de la Carrera, ex-secretary of

former president Manuel Urrutia.

(10) Humberto Armada, ex-captain Cuban Army and

AlI Force.

(11) Antonio Perez, ex-Cuban Marine officer.

(12) Alvaro Romero, ex-lebel Army captain.

(13) Pablo Campos, ex-Rebel Army captain.

(14) Gutierrez Menoyo, ex-Rebel Army Major.

(15) Berta ferrer, ex-nember of anti-Batista underground,

knowg a large number of Rebel Army officers having

beet in Sierra Maestra.

(16) Jose Lopez Castillo, ex-Rebel Army captain.

• (17) Alberto Padilla, ex-INRA functlonary.

(18) Dr. Hiram Sanchez, ex-Rebel Army captain.

(19) Dr. Manuel Morinas, a negro anti-Batista leader,

has great prestige anong Bavana fomer underground.

An additional 115h can be furnished upon request.

NW 53294 DocId:32356972 Page 10, DElhi

1976

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

"All of the above are former menbers of 26 of

July Ror., Students' Directorate (DRE) and XI Escambray

Tront, land have frlends in Havans and in the provinces.

The details of this operation have been

discussed only with Dr. Nestor Moreno and Enrique Cayado.

Miam1, Februnry 3, 1963

6

SEGRET

FiTF-59294r20874:72356972

---

