# docid-32302078

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10280-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-3-76-1638

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO: JENKINS, WALTER W.

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/03/1963

2

CC, PROGRESSIVE YOUTH ORGANIZING COMMITTEE, CP,

CAMPAIGN, JFK, CIVIL RIGHTS BILL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

ussassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54463 Date: 10-12-2017

149 15 4463

DocId: 32302078

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONPIENTIAL

SERRET

ATNOD

1 - Belmont

1 - Bland

1 - Evans

1 - Liaison

1

- Sullivan

1.- Kleinkauf

1 - Baumgardner 1 - Denz

CONFIDENTIAE

December 3, 1963 d

BY LIAISON

ALL INEORMATION CONTANER.

TATE ASSEIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

OTHER

Clas

Dee

olson

elmont

100-3-76

shr .

asper

illahan -

inrad*"

CGFC 1 0 1963

•Loach

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

'ene

le

sen

livan

yel

itter

RCD: km3/p

(10)

e. Room

mas

dy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

54463

DocId: 32302078

Page 2

DECLIESIEED E5268 Su/CE

ON 4/26/97.

Honorable falter W. Jenkins

Special Assistant to the Preaident

The Thite House

Washington, D. C.

Dear ir. Jenkins:

yourh

Matters

furnished

A confidentlal source of this Bureau who has

rollable information in the past recently; advised

that the Progresaive Youth Organising Connittee (PYOC) 1a

New York, New York, la sponsorIng a petition to President:

Lyndon. B. Jahnson.:

The petition states that Prosident

Johnson: can pay a llving tributo to the late President

John F. Kennedy by insuring the pascago of the clull rights

oilt before vanuary i

1984,

and continuing efforte: for

peace through negotiation.

P(U)

On November 23, 1963, Dandel Rubis, Comuntat

Party, USA (CPUSA), National Youth Director,

commented that

a campaign was being launched Immediately to gain signature.

on thia petition. di)ll

Another confidontial source of thie Bureau who

has furnished rellable information in the past has advleed

that the ProC was establiahod at a national socialiat

oriented youth conference held December 30, 1980, through

JanUary 1, 1961.

of a mandate issued by the CPUSA.

This conference was hold as the rosyle

Sincerely gours,

to

at 10AM, "

IS FabRASS

NTIAL

00-3

seruded Trau automatte? 6-

SECRET

39 DEC 4 1963

Reis

neve

CONFIDENTIAE

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

Honorable Walter W. Jenkins

NOTE:

information utilized concerning the petition to President

Johnson was furnished by]CG 6474-S#*Unauthorized dis- (*u)

closure of this information could tend to reveal the

identity of the source, thereby resulting in serious damage

to the Nation. Information was received in Chicago airtel

and letterhead memorandum 11/26/63.

See memorandum Baumgardner

to Sullivan dated 12/2/63 captioned "Communist Party, USA,

Youth Matters, Internal Security - Communist," RCD:knj.

---

- 2 -

CONF POINTIAL

(SEYRET

NW 54463 DocId: 32302078

Page 3

---

