# docid-32334460

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90116-10166

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-128

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

li44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NIT 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/16/1965

32

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.l

HH 53074

DocId: 32334460

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rov. 501-j9)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/36/65

11/12/64-3/12/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN P. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

"MINUTEMEN"

INFORMATION CONCERNING

IS

TYPEDI

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JOHN P. O'BRIEN, 10/30/64, at Chicago.

Kansas City letter to Bureau, 12/18/64.

Bureau letter to Chicago, 2/12/65.

- P- ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LEADS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

CHICAGO

DATE 1/4/60 BY ST

ILLINOIS

1. Will review the

CORNELL at the Niles Branch of the Circuit Court, Niles, Illinois.

(It is noted that CORNELL and others are to appear for trial on

March 2, 1965, charged with unlwful use of weapons, of carrying

concealed weapons, and disorderly conduct.

2. Will consider interviewing CORNELL regarding

his association with the 'Minutemen" organization.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

See 11 page for copies

JPO: d11

118)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

165t 492/128

Agoney

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Dissomination Rocord of Attached Report

to 159e 0)

Noratlons

-SEARCHED_

SERIALIZED,

MARZ n 1965

FILED Sp

FBI - MIAMI (

Downing 1o

NH 53074 DooId:32334460 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 105-11643

A CHICAGO,

ILLINOIS

1. Will maintain contact

with CG 6557R in an effort to determine

II ROBERT WILLIAM

HILLES is currently active In nintenen" and will comsider

interviewing MILLES

concerning his "Minutenen"

association.

20

and informants in an effort toddtermine if there are active "units"

1.11

will maintain contact with other logical sources

of "Minutemen' operating in the Chicago, Illinois area.

ADM IN ISTRAT IVE

Investigation in the Chicago, Illinois

area

has

Iailed to determine information to the effect that there are

active "units" of "Minutemen" in the Chicago, Illinois area.

The Chicago Division will continue to contact informants and

other logical sources of information and will notily the Bureau

if information is developed that the "minutenen" are openting

in the Chicago area.

one copy of this report is being designated for G-2,

ONI, OSI, and Secret Service, all Chicago, In accordance with

existing Bureau instructions.

Investigation by the chicago Division to date

has falled to reflect my Information that individuals identified

as members or former members of "Minutenen! are purchasing

arms and ammunition for use in carrying out the stated objectives

of the organization, thereby posing a threat to the life

of the president and other public officials.

There is no indication from Information obtained

by the chicago Division that the activities of "Minutemen" and/or

Its members are in violation of any lederal statutes

over which

the Bureau has investigative jurisdiction.

COVER PAGE

HH 53074 DocId: 32334460 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 105-11643

enjoyed publicity and one who mouldn't kup confidential any

interview conducted by the FBI.

It waS SA MC QUEEN'S opinion

that BUrNs would possibly use

Lophis ow poLitical gain.

Because of BUrNS' political

position in the past and his possible return to polities

In the future, plus the fact that BURNS appears to possess

no iniornet potential, it was concluded by SA MC QUEEN

that no Interview of BURNS should be made at this time.

In view of the above, BURNs is not being

considered for interview by the

Chicago Division.

For the information of the bureau, Lee corNs,

7325 Elmira Avenue, Des Plaines, IllInOIS 18

identical with

RICHARD LEE CORNELL, BUreaU file 105-134162, Chicago LILe

105-1773&, Captioned "RICHARD LEE CORNELL IS-CUBA."

Pertinent

background information concerning CORNELL set fOrth in

report has been previously furnished to the buregu and

secret servIce, CaLcago!

by letter and letterhead memorandum

to the Bureau dated September 25, 1964, and to secret servic

along with letterhead

memorandum dated September

we are sober 6s, a palete sid letterked

memorandum to the bureau and to secret service, chicago,

dated January 26, 1965.

INFORMANTS

Source

CG T-1

CG

69355R

Location

10511643-1A24

@rally to SA ROBERT J. DOLAN,

1 2 64 /20 6 23/659

2/15,23/650

•E•

COVER PAGE

fir:

HH 53074 DocId: 32334460

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 105-11643

bOUr Ce

CG T-2

MT. FORREST THOMPSON

(Postmaster,

Richnond, Missouri)

(protect identity)

CG T-3

Mr. DE. BORGIASZ,

Assistant Superintendent,

Logan Square POSt OIIICE,

2339 North Calliornia Avenue

Chicago, Illinois

(protect identity)

CG T=4

CG 6557-R

105-11643-130

105-11643-146

A) 170-1-64

Oxally to SA JOHN W.

TOEDT,

Instant report,

page 20

contacted on L1/30/643 12/7,22/64;

1/14,21,27/65; 2/10/65; 3/3/65.

170-35-IA1

CG T-5

Officer WILLIAM HAYES,

Security Section,

Intelligence Division,

Chicago police Department

chicago, ILlinois

(protect identity -

deemed advisable)

CG T-6

CG 6650-R

CG T-7

Lieutenant FRANK HEIMOSKI,

Security Section,

Intelligence Division,

Chicago Police Department,

Illinois

Chicago, identity-

(protect

....

deemed advisable)

Orally, to SA JOHN W. TOEDT,

page 2o

contacted p0r11/12/643 12/10,23/643

1/4,8,21/65; 2/10/65; 3/1/65.

Orally to SA JOHN P. O'BRIEN,

Instant report, page

contacted on

2/5,8,23/655 3/218564: 1/22025,297655

- Fse

COVER PAGE

HH 53074 DocId: 32334460

Page 5

---

