# docid-32310499

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10303-10113

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY. FILE NUMBER : CR 92-3088-1269

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/05/1965

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS :

ISW, BONDSMAN, WIT, ASSOC, CONVERSATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310499

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

CG 92-350 sub 11

ALDERISIO feels that WEINER makes an excellent witness

because he is "an (obs) actor."

BIEBER questioned whether

they might be using WEINER as a witness too often, and

mentioned that he had just been used again in the

DORFMAN

case in San Francisco.

He indicated, however, that if

WILLIAMS felt that be

wanted to use

WINeR, that this,

perhaps, should be done.

BIEBER then Inormed ALDENSIO concerning his

relationship with Loui

head of the Criminal

Division Or the

Cook

County State's Attorney"s Office

BILBER indicated.

"He's a good kid, hes wy

friend.

He's

my friend. You know his lather"

ALDERISIO indicated that

the Lather of 10MIS dArierO

chicago,

who "comes

1ยบ & former alderman In

time he needs anything, don't

say nothing to nobody, now,

It is noted that CG 6498-C-TE

advised on 2/2/65 that the elder CARIPPO WiLl again be

slated for alderman of the 36tt Ward of Chicago, following

a secret ballot of precinct captains, which took place

on the evening of 2/1/65.

The 36th Ward is a ward in which

the influence of the

hoodlum organization in Chicago is

very great.

BIEBER then

indicated that he was with GARIPPO

on the morning of 1/29/65, and

that

CARIPPO is "trying to

help the GRIECO hoys."

It is noted that JOSEPH and

DONALD GRIFCO have

been indieted for intimidating one of

their "juice" victims.

ALDERI SIO questioned whether

GARIPPO knows the GHIECO brothers, and was informed, "Knows

them? He went to the wodding." When ALDERISIO then

asked whether GARIPPO can

help to the GRIECO

brothers, BIEBER stated,

"We could

been through with

it already, but that (obs) fINi was

on it.

I told

GARIPPO tO

get the (obs) old of

the

0980 .

He's a dirty

(obs), that FLYNN 1S."

the reference to FINN is to

Assistant Cook County. Suto% Antorney

JAMES FLYNN,

who is

one

of the most conscientious prosecutor

the cook County

State's Attorney?

Office,

BIEBER thou inforned

some help for

the

too.

ALDEN

SIQ g

"We

may

need

I mean, maybe you'll have to

Ill!

DocId: 32310499

Page 2

---

