# docid-32423487

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

SSCIA

157-10014-10099

MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

07-M-05

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

SSCIA

MILLER, WILLIAM

[Restricted]

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 53244 Date:

DATE: 07/09/1975

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ASSASSINATIONS

SSCSGO

SPECIAL GROUP

CIA, COVERT OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/2000

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: CCBOX 443

v9.1

HH 53244

DocId: 32423487

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date :

08/06/95

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 157-10014-10099

• RECORDS SERIES : MISCELLANEOUS RECORDS OF THE CHURCH COMMITTTEE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 07-M-05

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : MILLER, WILLIAM

TO :

TITLE : PRELIMINARY STAFF PAPER ON ASSASSINATION [ R ]

DATE

: 07/09/75

PAGES

÷ 6.

SUBJECTS

:SSCSGO

CIA, COVERT OPERATIONS

SPECIAL GROUP

ASSASSINATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/05/99

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : CCBOX 443

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

1H 53244 DocId: 32423487

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Box 443

CLERK CHRON JULY

1975

---

## Page 4

TO.

sach

, DESIGNEE

YOUR SENATOR'S COPY OF THIS STAFF PAPER IS IN THE "A" SAFE, PLEASE ASK DUGGEE.

TO GIVE IT TO YOU WHEN YOU CAN TAKE IT TO YOUR SENATOR FOR HIM TO READ.

July 9, 1975

TO

: Members of the Select Committee

SUBJECT: Preliminary Staff Paper on Assassination

Attached you will find

tion: Authority and Control „reliminary staff paper entitled "Assassina-

This paper has been prepared by a member

of the Command and Control Task Force and is directed toward the key is-

sues of authority, Initiation, and control.

The purpose of the paper is

to assist you in preparing for the senior level witnesses that are ap-

pearing before the Committee this week. The paper contains a number of

findings which, although the views of the author, should be helpful in

sorting out the various issues and themes regarding assassination that

have been developed by the Select Committee to date.

This paper has been

prepared relying on the testimony of the wit-

nesses who have appeared before the Select Committee (through the

Harvey testimony of June 25), documents introduced as evidence during

the hearings, and materials already received by the Committee re-

lating to the CIA's legal

authority in the field of covert action opera-

tions and Special Group procedures.

Documents received from the CIA,

the State Department, the White House and the Presidential libraries have

not been incorporated into this paper. Therefore, the findings of this

paper must be considered preliminary, awaiting either confirmation or

revision in light of new evidence developed by the Committee through its

future hearings and its review of documents recently received from the

Rockefeller Commission, the National Security Council and

the Presiden-

tial libraries.

The paper is divided into three sections. The first contains back-

ground information on the CIA's authority for covert action operations

during the period under investigation, the role of the Special Group

during this period, and the concept and practice of "plausible deniability"

and how it relates

to assassination.

The second

section summarizes what

the Committee has learned through executive session testimony on the

Castro, Irujillo, Lumumba, and Diem assassinations or assassination at-

tempts, as well as the ZRRIFLE project.

The third, and final, section

summarizes and highlights the important findings of the Committee to

date as well as the key issues developed by the Committee up to

this

time.

Attachment

WH 53244

Docid: 32123487:

Page 4

---

## Page 5

16 Jely 755

TO

lach

, DESIGNEE

YOUR SENATOR'S COPY OF THIS STAFF PAPER IS IN THE "A"' SAFE, PLEASE ASK DUGGEE

TO GIVE IT TO YOU WHEN YOU CAN TAKE IT TO YOUR SENATOR FOR HIM TO READ.

July 9, 1975

TO

: Members of the Select Committee

FROM : WILLIan MIAM

SUBJECT: Preliminary Staff Paper on Assassination

Attached you will find a preliminary staff paper entitled "Assassina-

tion: Authority and Control."

This paper has been prepared by a member

of the Command and Control Task Force and is directed toward the key is-

sues of authority, initiation, and control. The purpose of the paper is

to assist you in preparing for the senior level witnesses that are ap-

pearing before the Committee this week.

The paper contains a number of

findings which, although the views of the author, should be helpful in

sorting out the various

issues and themes regarding assassination that

have been developed by the Select Committee to date.

This paper has been prepared relying on the testimony of the wit-

nesses who have appeared

before the Select Committee (through the

Harvey testimony of June 25), documents introduced as evidence during

the hearings, and materials already received by the Committee re-

lating to the CIA's legal authority in the field of covert action opera-

tions and Special Group procedures. Documents received from the ClA,

the State Department, the White House and

the Presidential libraries have

not been

incorporated into this paper. Therefore, the findings of this

paper must be considered preliminary, awaiting either confirmation or

revision in light of new

evidence developed by the Committee through its

future hearings and its review of documents recently received from the

Rockefeller Commission, the National Security Council and the Presiden-

tial libraries.

The paper is divided

into three sections. The first contains back-

ground information on the CIA's authority for covert action operations

during the period under investigation, the role of the Special Group

during this period, and

the concept and practice of "plausible deniability"

and how it relates

to assassination. The second section summarizes what

the Committee has learned through executive session testimony on the

Castro, Trujillo, Lumumba, and Diem assassinations or assassination at-

tempts, as well as the ZRRIFLE project.

The third, and final, section

summarizes and highlights the important findings of the Committee to

date as well as the key issues developed by the Committee up to this

time.

Attachment

HH 53244

DocId:32423487 Page

---

## Page 6

MENORANDUM

TO:

Bill Miller

FROM:

Dan Dwyer

DATE:

July 24, 1975

SUBJECT: Inventory of Materials Relating to Assassinations

CC Schwarz

Smothers

Hatry

Kieves

Security Director

Registry Clerk

Files

During the Committee's assassination inquiry we have worked with the

following kinds of materials: materials that the Conmittee already had received

from the Agencies before the Rockefeller materials; materials given to the

Conmittee by the Rockefeller Commission; three shipments of materials from the

White House received after the Rockefeller Commission materials; materials that

our staff acquired from Presidential libraries; and materials developed from

SSC Intelligence work

which include testimony, interview sunmaries, chronologies,

and notes relating to assassinations. These materials are enumerated below.

An asterisk in the left margin indicates that we have an itemized index of

these materials: This memo, and the appropriate indexes will be filed in

IX-C-1-S2, and with the Registry Clerk.

Most of the materials in this inventory were digested. An index card

file of these digests is in the Research Center. These cards (approximately

8000) are filed chronologically by each assassination case study (e.g. Diem,

Lumumba, etc.) and also by names of persons (approximately 300) related to

the case studies (e.g. Bundy, Bissell, Harvey, etc.).

I.

Materials received from the CIA and the Department of Justice prior to

arrangement with the white House

A. CIA

1.

1967 IG Report

2.

Materials relating to the Schneider assassination.

3. 3 pages of material on Sam Giancana received 6/2/75.

4. 60 pages of documents concerning Bissell testimony on Trujillo.

5. 27 pages of Conein exhibits.

N# 53244 DooId: 32423487

B. DOJ

1. CIA Justice file received 6/3/75.

2. Material relating to Giancana, Castro, Balletti, Roselli, Maheu,

et. al..

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Inventory of Materials Relating to Assassinations - 2.

*II. Transcripts of Executive Sessions of the Rockefeller Commission. The SSC

Intelligence received on 6/16/75 transcripts of testimony of 56 witnesses

who appeared before the Rockefeller Commission in Executive Session. Only

portions of these transcripts relate to assassinations.

1l1.

Materials received from the White House under special arrangement.

*A. Materials received from the White House on 6/27/75 including miscel-

laneous White House, Detense, and CiA memoranda regarding assassinations,

the largest bulk of these documents dated between 1960 and 1963,

totalling approximately 1800 pages. Included with these materials

were assassination materials also gathered by the Rockefeller Commission,

which totaled approximately 1400 pages. Also included in this shipment

were State Department cables and memoranda of which 174 pages related

to Diem and 217 pages to Trujillo.

*B. Materials received from the White House on 7/6/75 which include 175

pages of miscellaneous Defense Department memoranda regarding assassin-

ations and 65 pages relating to "Operation Balloon."

*C..

Materials received from the White House on 7/17/75 including 38 pages

of State Department documents regarding Lumumba and 51 pages of docu-

ments regarding Castro.

IV. Materials received from Presidential libraries.

A. JFK Library.

* 1. 154 pages of materials regarding assassination (mostly Castro)

received on 7/7/75.

* 2. 153 pages of materials regarding assassinations (mostly Castro)

received on 7/5/75.

* 3. 70 pages of materials regarding assassination received on 7/7/75.

* 4. 83 pages of selected documents, notes, memoranda and logs relating

assassinations received on 7/20/75.

5. The Maxwell Taylor Report (750 pages) re the Bay of Pigs received

on 7/7/75.

B. Eisenhower Library.

* 1.

40 pages of materials regarding various assassinations received

7/8/75.

C. Johnson Library.

1.. Materials regarding assassinations received 7/21/75.

*Indexes available.

NW 53244 DocId: 32423487

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Inventory of Materials Reltaing to Assassinations - 3.

V. Staff work.

* A. 47 Executive Session transcripts given before the SSC Intelligence

regarding assassinations through 7/20/75.

* B. 16 Staff interviews regarding assassinations through 7/20/75.

* C. 500 pages of Staff chronologies and memoranda relating to

assassinations.

D. Chronological index card file of digested material by subject and.

persons.

*Indexes available.

HH 53244

DocId: 32423487 Page

---

