# docid-32328636

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90076-10151

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-584-42

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

/

TITLE :

FBI

HQ

DOS

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1959

4

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MM

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32328636

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

392779

Nasca

Carson

-CONFIDENTIAL

109-584

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE DE CA INFORMATION

IN THIS DUG MENT. K 10-2-97

SED INSP

18-11-97

(851)

REC- 105

Date:

To:

07 2/25

B6222270xS8MAE/KFA

JER

ONO

Date of Decli

Exempt fron

Classified by

Nicat vor

Cates

2040

Indofinite

273

Tols on

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

Pürs ons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

ele. Roomf

tolloman

Gandy

Mail

Room

From:,

Subject:

April 16,

1959

Mr. il. Comlin Batley

Director

office

of security

Department of State

515 22nd Street,

Washington 25, D. C.

John Edgar Hoover, Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

ANTI-TIDEL CASTRO ACTIVIYIES

INTERNAL: SECURITY - CUBA

Classined

Partassily on: MADR 3-6-85

AFPROEATATE ACINOrRS

AND FTELDOENICES

ADVISED BAPOUrING

SLIP (S) OF,

DATE 8

This

10211

confirm information orally furnished

to Mr.

Valter Jessop of the Department of state by

Mr.

V. Cleveland of this Bureau on April 15, 1959. (U)

An informant who has furnished reliable information

in the past on April 14, 1959, aduised that Fidel Castro,

Prime Minister of Cuba, hos instruoted that no one in his

party carry firearms during the visit to the united states.

The informant stated that several individuals will

undoubtedly carry firearms for personal protection as they

believe that anti-Costro elements under Bajael del Pino and

Rolando Masferrer will couse demonstrations and might attempt

reprisals.

The informant had

sonomina any such ate do soone sortion

The informant stated

that anticonnunist and

pro-United States leaders in the Castro Gouernment are

exerting pressure on Castro to put aside his another roul

and Ernesto

"Che" Guevara who arendodused of being communists.

3 4)

Fedro Luis Diaz Lonz,

Castro, but Castro does

CONFIDENTIAL

know or this as yet

EY COURIER DUCA

3 4 APR1%

ccording

- 3)

• Havana

A90

hy y

Watson Unat

3 TELETYPE UNITAG

Cal same date.

NH 54460

DocId: 32328636

Page 2

---

