# docid-32286179

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10194-10455

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1258

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/03/1963

4

THP, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

99.1

DocId: 32286179 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

PATEIR4111432917

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTAL

FBI

Date:

5/3/63

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

JUNE

FROM : SAÇ, CHICAGO (92-350)

SUBJECT:

ACTIVITIES OF

IN CHICAGO AREA

TOP HOODLUMS COVERGE CCOU

The purpose of this

airtel is tobring up to date

the situation involving Alderman MICHAEL FIORITO. I t

Contact was made with CG 4498-PC prior to contact

of Alderman FIORITO on the early morning of 5/1/63. PCI

advised that he had been in contact with FIORITO until

2:30 AM that morning and that FIORITO was feeling very

"blue" and depressed. PCI advised that FIORITO did not

relish the investigation of him by the FBI or the

resolution introduced in the Chicago City Council by

Alderman JOHN HOELLEN. 1-

the agents arrived at FIORITO's law office,

30 North La Salle Street, for purposes of interview, Alderman

FIORITO immediately advised that he was making a decision to

resign his position as Alderman of the First Ward and

advised the agents concerning his family problems and lack

of enthusiasm for making a fight.

FIORITO was asked about his association with

GIANCANA

and he advised that not only has he never met

GIANCANA he has no information which would tend to indicate

to him that allegations received by the FBI that GIANCANA

asserts influence in the affairs of the First Ward are

true.

REG 52

62-99-1258

Bureau (RM)

Chicago

(1 - 137-3236)g 021119

MWJ : HDS/MJT

вор.

(5)

11 MAY 8 1963

matratabil

Approved:

Sent

Per

in Charge

DocId: 32286179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

At 1:00 AM on 5/2/63 CG 6498-PC advised that he

was at that time with Alderman FIORITO in the Gaslight Club

PCI advised that

FIORITO had learned from WARD that the investigation which

was commenced by WARD approximately one month ago was now

complete and that there would be no further investigation

or prosecution of FIORITO. WARD advised FIORITO, however,

that he could speak for no other agency and that

he indicated to

FIORITO that FIORITO could expect investigations by other law

enforcement agencies and legislative bodies for the next four

years in the event he continued to hold office.

PCI advised that

for this reason FIORITO continued in his intention to resign

as Alderman of the First Ward.

PCI also advised that he and Il

FIORITO would contact PAT MARCY, JOHNAD' ARCO, and TONY TISCI

late on the morning of 8/2/63 and make known

to resign within the next two or three days.

CG 6576-C* advised that during the early afternoon

of 5/2/63 PCI and FIORITO appeared in the offices of the First

Ward Regular Democratic Organization but that PCI was not

present in the immediate office when FIORITO discussed with

TISCI and MARCY the facts of his resignation. This source

advised that MARCY and TISCI listened patiently for approximately

half an hour while FIORITO outlined his personal reasons for

not desiring to continue as Alderman of the First Ward. At the

conclusion of FIORITO's presentation MARCY then asked FIORITO

whether he would be interested in running again for election

as Alderman of the First Ward next year after all requirements

-of residence are properly and legally met.

was the einst

It appeared to the

source that this was the first time that FIORITO was questioned

by MARCY and TISCI concerning this possibility and that it was

the first consideration he had given to this possibility.

When

FIORITO indicated to MARCY that he would give consideration to

it, MARCY told him that that would not be good enough, that they

wanted to know right now what FIORITO would do. FIORITO advised

that he would like to think about it but MARCY pressed for an

immediate answer. Finally, FIORITO advised MARCY and TISCI

that they could count on him for being a candidate for Alderman

of the First Ward if they could get a commitment from Mayor DALEY

on 5/3/63 that there would be no election to fill the vacancy

which would then exist in the First Ward following the resignation

of FIORITO until February of 1964. In this regard attention is

drawn to the fact that in February of 1964 in the event that

FIORITO continues to reside in the City

of Chicago he will be

- 2 -

DocId: 32286179 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350

legally and properly qualified as a resident of the City of

Chicago to run for Alderman of the First Ward.

It is noted

that at the present time FIORITO has been residing in the.

Conrad Hilton Hotel in the First Ward since 1/29/63.

FIORITO and MARCY then made arrangements to

request an

immediate appointment with Mayor DALEY on the

morning of

from the Mayor that the vacancy in the First Ward will continue

to exist until February, 1964.

Late on the afternoon of 5/2/63 Alderman FIORITO

telephonically contacted SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER Of this office

and advised that he would probably communicate his resignation,

which he had now made definite, to Mayor DALEY on the morning

of 5/3/63 and request permission of the Mayor to hold this

resignation in confidence while he prepared a statement over

the weekend of 5/4-5/63.

He advised that he then desired

to sit down with SAs ROEMER and MARSHALL E. RUTLAND on the

morning of 5/6/63 and give them a copy of his resignation

statement.

He then intends to release this statement to

the press either on the afternoon of 5/6/63 or on the

on be a noted that

morning of 5/7/63 it being noted that the Rules Committee

of the City Council meets concerning his qualifications

on the morning of 5/7/63. In answer to a question as to

whether there is anything "new" in regard to his situation,

FIORITO answered negatively:

CG 6498-PC telephonically contacted SA ROEMER on

the late evening of 5/2/63 from South Bend, Indiana, to

inform him that Alderman FIORITO just contacted the

PCI

in 'South Bend to advise of his appointment with the Mayor

for 5/3/63.

PCI advised that FIORITO intends at that

time to inform the Mayor that he intends at that time

to inform

the mayor that he intends to resign. However.

PCI did not inform concerning any possibility that FIORITO

will be a candidate for re-election next year.

As a result of these interviews, it is apparent

that the "heat" of the investigations on the First Ward

-

-

DocId: 32286179 Page 4

---

