# docid-32303618

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination Sÿstem

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10130

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-44

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WALTERS, JOSEPH V.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/09/1948

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

JOP, EMP, DAILY WORKER, TRA, B/F INT, CP ACT,

SPEAKING TOUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w9.1

DocId: 32303618

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

<. DATE: 11-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT SAN FRANOISCO

REPORT MADE AT

NEW YORK--

CONFID

ENT

-NY-FILE NO. 100-88368_ SMS.

DATE WHEN MADE

2/9/48

PERIOD FOR

11/5, 01, 23

REPORT MADE BY

JOSEPH V. WATERS

26-29/48

CHARACTER OF CASE

TITLE

JOHN PITTMAN

choreoman

SO N5

VeGASSLUTE

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

a.29

Classified by

Declassify on: PROSE

JOHN PITTMAN is presently employed by

the DAILY WORKER at NYC as a writer and

he resides at 370 Manhattan Ave., NYC.

PITTMAN has written a, serios of articles

on his 1946-47 European tour. These

articles appeared in the DAILY WORKER and

PEOPLES VOICE in the first part of 1947.

In April and May, 1947 PITTNAN made a

speaking tour of Indiana and Chicago on

behalf of the Educational-Organizational

Dept. of the CPUSA.

DECIASSIFIED BY S6685L0nde

11/10/97

REFERENCE:

ON

Report of SA Cecil James Fleming, San Francisco,

11/17/47

DETAILS:

In a report dated July 11, 1946fcontidontial

Informant ND-183 advised that JOHN PITTMAN was going overseas shortly as

a correspondent for the DAILY WORKER, and on September 13, 1946 he advised

that PITTMAN was going to travel to Africa via Moscow. In further report

dated November 14, 1946, this informant advised that PITTMAN was then in

Paris, France and had requested money of the DAILY WORKER in order to go

to Romania to report on the elections in that country.

COPIES DESTROYED

22700

APPROVED ANDES

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

O COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

San Francisco (100÷1465)

New York

act

DR

620 14 201

37

4-28-

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100130067-144

35 FER 41 194940

-K--7-11-47-800M-4825

j-22-54

RECORDED

DocId: 32303618

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel -

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONF

OCMIAL

NY 10088368:

disorimination against Jews and other minorities in those countries. The

general tenor of his articles was to the effect that these "new demooracies"

had been quite successful in eliminating that evil.

In his article in the PEOPLES VOICE of June 21, 1947 on Page 11,

PITTMAN relates his interview with VASILE LUCA, a Romanian loader. Accord-

ing to LUCA, American military and press 'representatives in Roumania tried

to create hostility between Romanians and Hungarians in order that

Transilvania would not be kept by Romania. PITTMAN reportod that LUCA

said there was a tendency of nationalities to form alliances among them-

selves and suggested that idea as a possible solution for minorities in

the United States.

Confidential Informant ND-183 in a report dated April 24, 1947

advised that JOHN PITTMAN fron the Pacific Coast had returned from Europe

with his wife, the former PAUL FOX, and according to this informant PITTMAN

was to replace ROBERT MINOR on a mid-west speaking tour and following this

would return to the Pacific Coast.

Confidential Informant I-l on November 10, 1947 supplied SA Everett

Ko Deane with a signed copy of JOHN PITTMAN'S report to the Educational-

Organizational Department of the Communist Party U.S.h, regarding his speak-

ing tour in Indiana and Chicago made by him between April 27th and May 7,

He reported on his attendance at Communist meetings in Indianapolis,

Evansville, Fort Wayne, South Bend, Gary, and Chicago, giving a few details

on each meeting.

In a paragraph entitled "OVERALL OBSERVATIONS" he said that

his impression was that the Comrades in Indiana are still hampered by

left sectarianism and that they lack bold approach to any persons but the

working olass and failod to attempt to popularize the Communist Party

Regarding Chicago he said that he had heard from Negro comrades

there that white chauvinism is rampant there and that Negro organizationa

are loft to shift for themselves.

He concluded his report with

an expression

of gratitude to the Ed-Org Commission for the opportunity to meet Party and

non-Party people in that senter of industrial America and he desoribed it

as a re-orienting experience necessary to get him back quickly into the

CONFIDENTIND

DocId:32303618 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-88368

sense of things.

PITTMAN's financial account, which was part of this

report, reflooted that he spent a total of $110 on the tour in additior

to the price of an airplane tioket to Indianapolis.

On July 18, 1947 Confidential Informant I-l furnished sA Herbert

P. Larson with a nemorandum dated July 15, 1947 submitted by JOHN PITTMAN

and HOWARD BOLDT to the Editorial Board of the DAILY WORKER. This memo-

randum outlined their proposals to increase the circulation of the SUNDAY

WORKER. They suggested mass subscription drives in trade unions plus mass

organizations, and other groups, and a program in which Communist Party

loaders would implement this drive with the DAILY WORKER printing stories

of their efforts. There was also suggested a number of journalistio

improvements, such as an increase in features and human interest stories

On July 18, 1947 T-l furnished SE J. O'Shaughnessy with a pay

enveLope of CREEDOM OF THE PRESS, INCo, which publishes the DAILY WORKER.

This envelope was made out to PATTERSON, presumably the subject, indicating

a weekly salary of $70 with a not payment to him of $59.10.

From information

previously furnished by this informant it may be assumed that this was the

weekly salary of JOHN PITTMAN.

Confidential Informant ND*183 on August 7, 1947 reported that

JOHN PITTMAN was then working for the DAILY WORKER with BOWARD BOLDT •

On November 2, 1947 ND-183 advised that JOHN PITTMAN was residing

at 370 Manhattan Avenue, New York City, apartment 5G, telephone Monument 2-

0oso, and that PAULA PITTMAN was residing at 66 West 69th Street, New York

City, telephone Trafalgar 7-1700.

according to the Telephone Directory Monument 2-8643 is listed

for S. 0. RUTHERFORD who, according to the election records, is more fully

identified as SEPTIMUS- RUTHERFORD.

SEPT IMUS RUTHERFORD was mentioned in copies of the PILOI dated

March 21, 1946 and December 3, 1946 which described him as a candidate

for the general elections being held by the National Maritime Union in that

year. .

According to Confidential Informant ND-399 RUFHERFORD ran for Field

Patrolman and was defeated. ND-399 has stated that RUTHERFORD was a member

of the Comunist Party until about 1942, when he dropped out.

CONPDENTIAN

= 7=

DocId: 32303618 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 100-88368

The DAILY WORKER of January 1, 1948, page 11, Section, features

a review of the Book "Russia's Europe" by HAL "LEHRMAN.

This review,

written by JOHN PITTMAN, denounces LEHRVAN's book as "more grist for the

warmongers' mill" and PITTVAN declares that LEHRMAN'S book is filled with

misstatements.

PITTMAN ends his review with the statement of regret that

"a LEHRAN rather than a HENRY WALLACE, is typical of what has come to be

known as an American Liberal".

Confidential Informant ND-183 advised that on January 26, 1948

JOEN PITTMAN dispatched a telegrem to CLAIRE GRAHAM, apartment 63, 244

Kearney Street, San Francisco, California, reading as follows:

"YOUR DECISION WISE. YOU WILL PULL THROUGH EVEN IF NEXT

SHORT PERIOD IS TOUGH. WRITING SPECIAL DELIVERY TONIGHT.

TAKE IT EASY TIL GET OKAY FROM ME.

/s/- JOHN

Inasmuch as the nature and extent of JOHN PITTMAN's activitios

in connection with the Communist Party have been determined, and his

employment and residence address established, no further investigation

is being conduoted at this time.

- REFERRED UPON COMPLETION TO THE OFFICE OF ORIGIN =

CONFAGENTIAN

* 9

DocId: 32303618

Page 5

---

## Page 6

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CON-ENING

NY 100-88368

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS

Confidential Informant I-l mentioned in the report of SA Joseph

Vo Watery dated February 9, 1948 at New 101 Cell

Confidential Informant ND 426who Is being designated by

à temporary symbol to further protect his identity.

CONFMENIIAL

10

DocId: 32303618

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT GAN PRANCISCO

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

AND YORX

2/0/30

TITLE

JOUR PIRTUAD

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

1/5.8.28

20-60/40

By FILE NO. 200-83860

REPORT MADE BY

CHARACTER OF CASE

TRIBEDAL BBOURTZY • 6

Dac

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

JOHN PITTUA La presently anployed by

ENO DAILY WORKER at UTO ao a writor and

ho realtea at 870 Manhatton Avo., MTC.

PIRItAN hao writton a nories of artioles

on hio 1000-47 Europoan tour.

These

aritalos appsarod ta the DAILY WORKSE and

PROFLES VOICE La the firat part of 1007.

In Agril and My, 1007 PITTMAN nado a

opoaking tour of Indians and Chicago on

bohalf of the Educational Orgontrational

Cept. of the aPUlA.

• 800 •

ASFBR3NC8:

Report of 3A Co01] Jamas Mening, San Franciaoo,

11/17/47

DEZAILS:

to a roport dated July l2, 1040 Confidential

Informant

ED-108 advisod that JONY PITIAM mas golag evorceas shortly ae

• correspondent for she DAILY WORKER, and on Septosbor 10, 1000 he adviced

that PITTIAl me going to travol to Afrioa vie losser.

In curthor roport

dated lovender 1e, 1916, this inforant adviood thet PITCHAN was thon 1a

Pario, France and had roquested money of the DAILY WORrIE in order do go

to Foumanta to report on the alootions in that country.

ALL INFORDIATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNGLASSII

DAJE 9-29•94 BYSP8 Mue sude

JFK

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3

Burona

San Francisco (200-1466)

How York

+F1-LN-7-91-47--90044525

DocId: 32303618 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1810141

CLASSINED BY 5668 SID mile

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

6253

25г

127

Pro (Cor (s)

SECRET

9-180.

PROPLE TOPS DISA

0 0M503 20103 1501

I BIVIAL CONVERTES; OF STOPE

10/1/35 72

John Pittan, correspondent of the "Peoplete

Morld", cave a roport at a special Cornunist farty meting in San Pranoisco

on his trip to turope.

John Pitcaan, a legro, was born at Atlanta, deorgia, on Septenber

17, 1905• Prior to going to turope, John 91ttman served as Executiva faitor

of the "people's Torla", West Coast Connunist dominatod nerspaper.

John Pittnan told the Communist Party 'unctlonaries in San Uranoisco

that he had violed i lingland, France, Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Crecho-

plovakia and lungary on his recent trip to turope.

Pittman Indloated that he was going to write a boole and regardless

of whether or not the book brings a profit from the sale, it would bo worth

putting out. Ile stated that the great interest of progressive Amerieana in

the coning months would tend nose and more to creato a market for thie book

and the soseipts fron sans pay be oulticient to cancal the debts brought about

by hia trip.

Pittan givioed that nile in ingland he was able to-talk to larry

Pol1Stt, R. Palno butt, and tatia of the 1.P. Pttan stated that walllen

Collecher was avay at the time.

In irenee Mittman was able to see Jacques nielos and kaurtoe thores,

the oditors of Lumanito" and other larty nenbers engaged in other setivitles.

ALL INPORMATION GONGINED

HERETE IS UNOLASSIFIED

THIRS SHONA OTHERWISE.

no said that he would have seon event Coctualo

except, that he was

122 at the time and had zone away tron the esty on a

vacation. Pittman said that he talled to the peoplo of te turi Praylo" (pa)

and osher comrades in the Intornation Ministry and other places.

In Foland Ittmn stated that he was able to talk to jainb bernan

and other trade union Leadors who lore in the Part

and to many conrados in the various aspecto of the Policy right.

lolson

INDEXERSO

R006

By A lam

In lumenta Bitton stated he sar Vasile Luca, wio Tool

a nevar, the the too tire don teleo, the pete too arres

Foreign Service Desk

Nel simpernan

нов те 12.

C.IR. D

(SECRET

DocId: 32303618

Page 8

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 9

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORMATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions) •

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3

DI Subsection 4

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[]

Subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[]

For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

100-30067-41p7

xxxxxxXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXxxxxXXXX

xxXxxxxxxxX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxXX

DocId: 32303618 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

This

In London. (5)

Infomation

SECRET

Le botos made available to your headquarteze

bir.

Mr.

20150 Taria,

E:

Mr.

clavin

Nichols

Mr.

Rosen

Mer

BRan

curres

liardo

Mohr

Mr.

Pennington

quirin Ter

Tole.

hoUs

hat.

Masse

Miss Gand

•70

PRET

DocId: 32303618

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleetion Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107, Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

6253

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

25%

on gro (s)

SECRET

ON, 0O MESPONDENT ON, TEL

IN SUVAHAL COUNDRIES OF BUROPE

MEIT

1 PSOPLO IS

1008541

112/95(577)

1947,

John Fitiman, correspondent of the "People g

World", gove a report at a special Communist farty neeting in ban Francisco

on hio trip to burope.

Jotin Pittuan, a Negro, was born at Atlantas Georgia, on September:

John Fittman served as Executive Iditor

John Pittman told the Cormuniat Party functionaries in San Franoiaco

that ho had violted in England, France, Poland, Fmania, Bulgaria, Caecho

slovakia and Hungary on his recont trip to twrope,

Pittman indicated that he nas going to mrite a book and, regardless

of whether or not the book bringo a profit from the sale, it mould be worth

putting out. He stated that the great intorost of progressive Americana in

the coning months would tend more and more to create a market for this book

and the receipts from

same may be oufflcient to cancel the dobts brought about

by bie trip.

Flotman advised

while in Ingland he mas able to tell to inn

rollitt, R. Falmo butt, and

Altatin of the koP.

Pittan stated that Willian

callagher was away at the tine.

see Pittmen was able to aeo Jacques ucles and Maurich Thore%,

the editors of

L Humanito" and other Party members engaged in other activities.

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINEL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED E

WHERE SHOWY OTHERWISE.

nanely.

•In Gechoslovakia Pittnan sald he sow the head of the party there,

he aadd that he would here seon tenen cottrald

that no wes ill at the time and had gone away fron

vacation.

Pittman said that he talked to the people oi

do Buni taylo" (sh)

and other comrades in the Information Ministry and other Places. (C

In Poland Fittman stated that he was able to talk to dalubberman

and other trado union leaders who were in

the warty

to the resident of the Ropublie who 1s a

the Party one raspere,

• offlolally,"

and to many comrades in the various aspects of the Folish right.

2,7.

sir.

Mr.

Toison

Tale:

M158 0a

Nichol

three Secretaries of the Party.

Rosen

Transylvania, the whole Exccuure Commutee

5G8n

head of the trade union novement ands gonerally, many other comrades.

- colr. Ladd

Foreign Servico Desk

/Cimperman

A. 1: R. d

Tarty

(SECRET

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32303618

Page 11

---

