# docid-32290801

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10077

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-503

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/26/1962

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32290801 Page 1

320

---

## Page 2

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

O'S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 2 6 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callehan

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr, DeLoaci

Mr. Evans!

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

DEF

RRED

4-26-62 8-20 PM CST EAH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3182/

FROMASAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 1P

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR, DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI

ADVISED THAT NATHAN BUTCHLADON, CHAUFFEUR

FOR ALEX, IS NOW DRIVING A NINETEEN SIXTYTWO BLACK FOUR DOOR PONTIAC,

BONNEVILLE WITH ILLINOIS REGISTRATION KT FOUR NINE FIVE SIX•

STATED THAT LADON KEEPS THIS AUTO AT HIS RESIDENCE AT ONE FIVE FIVE

ZERO NORTH LAKE SHORE DRIVE. LADON INFORMED

THAT THE PONTIAC

WAS A LEASE CAR FROM HENRY SUSK AND THAT HE COULD GET A SIMILAR CAR

FOR

AT DEALER-S COST IF HE WANTED ONE.

INVEXTIGATION DISCLOSED THA ABOVE DESCRIBED PONTIAC IS

REGISTERED TO GRAND AUTO LEASING COMPANY, FIVE TWO ZERO NORTH WABASH,

CHICAGO. THIS IS THE ADDRESS OF HENRY SUSK PONTIAC AND THE GRAND AUTO

LEASING COMPANY IS A NEW SERVICE RECENTLY STARTED BY SUSKO

SUSK IS A VERY CLOSE ASSOICATE OF ALEX.

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS

WA AND HOLD

EX-114

REC.

53

9-25 PM M OK FBI WA MLL

91-3189-503

#34TAPR 27 1962

OTHER 4

60 MAY 8

1962

NW 45679 DocId: 32290801 Page 2

---

