# docid-32318967

## Page 1

Released under'the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/07/1992

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DoCId:32318967

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

'August 7, 1992

Honorable 300 MC

House of Represer

Latives

Washington, D.C. 20515

Dear Congressman McEwen:

3811

This is in further response to your July 9th inquiry on

behalf of Ms. Carolyn Sollar Ms. Sollar

As you are aware, legislation was recently introduced

in both the senate and

the House regarding the release of all

Government files pertaining to the assassination of President

John F. Kennedy.

In an effort to be of possible assistance in

responding to your constituent's concern, I am enclosing a copy

of the Director's remarks before the Committee on Governmental

Affairs on May 12th regarding the Assassination Materials

Disclosure Act, Senate Joint Resolution 282. You will note in

readina that Director Sessions supports the maximum disclosure

under the law of information pertaining to President Kennedy's

assassination.

You will also note his assurance that the FBI

will work cooperatively through the Department of Justice with

both the Senate and the House to develop a comprehensive approach

to these important issues.

I hope this information will assist you in responding

to Ms. Sollar.

Sincerely yours,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UMSLASSITIED

DATE 2/13/95 BYS608-S Copeda

(OFE

John E. Collingwood

Inspector in Charge

Office of Public and

Congressional Services

sep. Dir.

1DD Admi.

1DD inv.

Issk. Dir.:

Adm. Servs. -

Crim. Inv. m

Ident.

Into. Migne.

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun

Tech. Servs.

Training

Song. Alls.011..

Jit. Liaison &

Int. Alls.

211. 01 Public Alts...

DocTA:52318967

"Page

Enclosure

1 - Cincinnati - Enclosures (2)

1

- Mr. Boutwell (Room 6975) - Enclosures (2)

• Attention:

Mrs. McKissic

1 - Media Services Unit - Enclosures (2)

1 - Research Unit - Enclosures (2)

Attention:

Dr. Rosenfeld

1 - Congressional Affairs Office

62A-H3-10-092: 30

NOTE:

Congressman McEwen writes on behalf of CAROLYN SOLLAR, who

requests the Congressman's support for the legislation that would

jaddressthe release of all the Kennedy assassination papers. A

copy of the Director's Summary Statement before the Committee on

Governmental Affairs, U.S. Senate, 5-12-92, on the Assassination

Materials Disclosure Act, Senate Joint Resolution 282, was sent

to the Congressman for his information. Response was discussed

with SSA Carl Chandler, CAO.

An interim response was prepared by

CAO on 7-16-92..

JMM: cap

(8)

fused tee

frison, Seive

Crum

Inv

it oilt.

..V.

.11464.06

-..-Oif. Ol LEO

Oll. of

• Public airs a

---

