# docid-32319269

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10403

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-85

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OCONNOR

TO:

BAUGH

TITLE :

DATE: 12/15/1993

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC WORKSHEET, ENV, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32319269

Page

60

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: f11-14-2017

Memorandum

To

:

Mr.V

Date

321

12/15/93

From

Terry I. opends

Subject

:

Dep. Dir..

ADD Achi..

ADD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm.Servs.

Crim.Inv.

Ident.

Info.Mgnt.

Insp.

IntelT._

Lab.

Legal Coun

Tech.

Servs.

Training.

Cong. Affs. Off.

off.

of EEO

Off. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

Off.

of Public Affs..

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

TELEPHONE MODIFICATIONS

OJFK TASK FORCE

INFORMATION RESOURCES DIVISION (IRD)

Reference is made to memorandum from William E. Baugh,

JI., to Ms. Pasenelli dated 11/15/93, captioned "Telephone Outlet

Modifications, JFK Task Force, Information Management Division

PURPOSE: To request that twenty-four telephones be installed in

Room 6712 to be utilized by the JFK Task Force

DETAILS: Due to an addition of personnel to the JFK Task force,

24 telephones need to be installed in Room 6712 at the locations

indicated on the

attached

designs as soon as possible.

Costs for the above modifications may be applied to

cost code 1581.

Any inquiries regarding these modifications may be

directed to Carrie Ellen Perry, Extension 9238, Room 6712.

RECOMMENDATION: That this memorandum be forwarded to the

Telecommunications Services Unit for appropriate action.

APPROVED:

Diracior.

Des. Di:..

ADD-Asm.

ADD-1T%.

Inspaction -

crim. in.-

hiell. com

Crim. Jus. Info.

Laboratory.

sans.—

Lose ecun. -

Tach. sorus..

Into. ASeme 1126h70l Traning -

_. CH. of FED Alis.-

Ofi. al 1lsi304

M. Di Fuele

@ cong. Atts.

ENCLOSURE

62A-HQ-1029205

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DAE 5, 5/45 sissione

(JAD

6RA-+p-1029205-855

1 - Ms. Cibula, Room 6431

1 - Mrs. McCrum, Room 4859

"1. - JFK Task Force, Room 6712

12-21

93

cep (4)

ESTIMATEd COST OF

$2,360.00

FOR INSTALLATION OF

TELEPHONE SERUICE.

DocId: 32319269 Page 2

P/M.b/Pac/fe

---

## Page 3

Released under the taba kennedy

Assessination. Regards Solestion 091.9199-144-4562297 Motel

DATTY 11-14,2017

ALL TNFORMATION CONTAMED

DocId: 32319269* Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum

TO

:

From

:

Ms. Pasenelli

(Attention: Gary Mobley)

William E. Baugh, JI.

TELEPHONE OUTLET MODIFICATIONS

JFK TASK FORCE

INFORMATION MANAGEMENT DIVISION (IMD)

Date

11/15/93

Dep. D1r.

ADD

Aan.

ADD InN.

Asst. Dir.

Adm. Servs.

Crim.Inv.

Ident.

Info.Mgnt.

Insp.

Intelt

Lab.

Legal coun.

Tech. Servs.

Training.

Cong. Affs. Off..

Off. of EEO

off. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

Off. of Public Afts.

Telephone RM.

Director's Office

Subject

PURPOSE: That adequate telephone outlets be installed to

accommodate twenty-four telephones to be installed in Room 6712.

DETAILS: Due to an addition of personnel to the JFK Task Force,

telephone outlets to accommodate 24 telephones need to be

installed in Room 6712 at the locations indicated on the attached

designs as soon as possible.

Also, the telephone outlet

indicated with an asterisk on the attached floor plan needs to be

removed.

Costs for the above modifications may be applied to

cost code 1581.

Any inquiries regarding these modifications may be

directed to Carrie Ellen Perry, Extension 9238, Room 6712.

RECOMMENDATION: That this memorandum be forwarded to the

Facilities Management and Security Section, FD, for appropriate

action.

62А-HQ-1029205

1 - Mr. O'Hanlon (Attention: Gary Mobely, Room 1B303)

1 - Mrs. McCrum, Room 4859

1 - JFK Task Force, Room

1. 6712

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CEP (4)

DocId: 32319269 Page ENCOSURE 62-HQ-1029205-85

---

