# docid-32291412

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10207-10188

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-12-395

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/23/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291412 Page

13

---

## Page 2

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 (14, USC 2107

Note fP-36

Bate! -11-14-2017

FBI

Date:

1/23/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12) AND

SAC; SAN

ANTONIO

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re San Antonio airtel to Bureau, 1/5/63.

Referenced San Antonio airtel incorrectly quotes

(on page three, paragraph one),

from a prior Dallas airtel

submitted to the Bureau, 12/10/52, information received by

the Dallas Division from an informant.

The San Antonio airtel

states

"An informant of the Dallas Office...

and also refers

to this source in reairtel

"unidentified"'

In actuality,

the source is fully identified on page three of the Dallas

airtel, by symbol number and Dallas file number. In order to

further identify the informant's source of the information

result that this source was tentatively identified, as set out

in detail, also on page three of the Dallas airtel.

The Dallas informant is a qualified

who has furnished reliable,

occasions in the past, or else he would not be a symbol informant,

nor would contacts be continued by the Dallas Division with

bit co that the

this informant. It is further pointed out to the San Antonio

Office that the information received was of criminal intelligence

in nature and that the informant stated, as dearly set out on

Bureau

louston (GIIF) (InIO

. - El Paso (GIIF) (Info

REC-10

62-9-12-395

2

- San Antonio (GIIF)

2 - Dallas (1 - 137-566)

RMB: cjr

• JAN 25 1963

(9) 64

54 FED 1

1963

pproved:

Sent .

M

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32291412 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hote)., "

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI.94-55A-SUB

on page four, that he, the informant, could not "vouch"

for the information.

The information was evaluated by the

thereafter disseminated to the Bureau and

other EBI Offices in Texas, as a matter of cooperation,

for intelligence purposes.

The motive for DL-170-C furnishing

the information is believed to be that he is an informant, and

as such is furnishing all information received by him to the

FBI, which is as it should be.

The accuracy or inaccuracy of the

information could not possibly be known by the Dallas Office, or

any other office, at this time-only the possibility of such

could be known.

It has always been the policyy of the Dallas

Division, in connection

captioned program, to furnish the

Bureau and any offices having an interest, all

criminal intelli-

gence information received

based on the premise that intelligence

type information is only of value when received, recorded and

disseminated expeditiously.

LYNUM

-2-

DocId: 32291412

Page 3

---

