# docid-32570089

## Page 1

Die PTIONAL TOMONO

MAY SON. COIT ON

N. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVN

Memorandum

5010-106

MENT

SECRET

:

Mr. D. J. Brennan,

DATE:

5/24/65

FROM

Mr • S. J, Papich

& LAFORMATION CONTATNED

Tolson

Belmont -

Mohr .

De Loach .

CIA HAS NO OBJEOTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMERO -

GMB 402,2-94

Wall

SUBJECT:

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

MADER: WAR

& SHOWN

OTHERW, 83

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

CIA, advised the Liaison Agent on 5/21/65, that •

his

Agency has been giving attention to actions which possibly might be

taken by the U. S. Government to disrupt relations between Cuba and Russia.

One of

the ideas which is under consideration is an operation designed to

"secret deal" concerning Cuba.

of a blind memorandum describing a fabricated story which could fit into

this plan. Hornexplained that the objective would be to pass such

story through available channels such as double agents.

Horn wanted to make it clear that CIA very definitely was not s

this story through its sources and would not take any action

unless the plan was clearly approved by State Department. CIA intends

to have further discussions within the Agency and will then consult

with State. In the meantime, CIA would be interested in receiving our

observations on the enclosure. In this connection; it

should be noted that" if the plan is approved, CIA hopes that through

one of our double agents the fabricated story possibly could be passed

to some Cuban official at the United Nations The Liaison Agent in-

(и)

formed Horn that it should be clearly understood that the Bureau, at

cipation 5716

ACTION:

• not cootine to any parts-

1 9803 nod ges

19326418/92

The above information and enclosure are being

directed to the

attention of the Nationalities Intelligencel Section:

Any comments or

observations to CIA should be transmitted via Liaison.

(5-1) (4)

Enclosure

REC®

37

109-584-4238

12 JUN 9

1965

- Mr. Wannall

- Mr • Mullins

- Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

SJP :chs

ENCLOSURE

Sl(4)

Chie

ON SpS mAC/KSR

77211,326

6-20-94

Classified by SPE BIANCL

JFK,

Declassify on: OADR6/25 /85

INV

SECRETI

SERIES Tu

SIDE FOR

CLASSAFICATION

ACTION

m1U18 1965)

45825 DooId: 32570089

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3АR-1O135

19802S

RECEIVED-DIRECTOR

F. B. 1

JUN

.8:

08 AM

'65

FOI/FAV

211,326

APPRAI

E. 0. 7

2356

31236/25/05

JUN?

421 PM 965

REC-D

BELMONT

F3

WUS TIGE

INITIALS GOL

SENSTURY I

NOTATIONS, HEREIN ACCOUNT FOR ACCESS A LAPOR DEL VERY OF THIS DOCUMENT TO SENATE

"SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) ANDOR HOUSE SELES COMMIAGE ASS) ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES"

IN WHICH AGNES AND POIN BETTERY WAS MAGE MAY BE DIFFERENT

THAN AS REPRESENTED BY THIS JOSU MENT IN INDI, CES ANEXOLIONS MAY HAVE BEEN:

MADE. FOR AUCESS- DELIVERY FORM, SEE BUTLE :)-62116546 NSSC) 62 116464 (HSC).

ssc 67-1163415

MISE DOCUVENTS FURNACE IE SOOTE

•TO ESTATE OF KING THROUGH CUTOR OWN

"TOUCIUR WERE ALSO FATNISHED

AND BELOW FOR INSTANT. DÖCUMENT. DATE

DENOTING DELIVERY TO DEPT DE BUPLE 109206670 FOR FORM INWHICA FURNISHED

> TO DEPT. SI

121•

*.i7

tu!'

15.

OBO3S

• NH 45825 DooId: 32570089 Page 2

---

## Page 3

par

, stern

i/es

8,15%

ON ANG RO 0285U00 SO

FANS RONTON ARCIER.

FEL ASE OF CIA INFORMATION

N THE COURT,

EXCEPT BRACKETS

mixinds

GmB 4-22-94

6-20-94

PER CA

It is suggestod that the lollovind fabricatod 580rY

passed

person vith high-levol contacts in Havano:

do vory mich disturbed

by un entry

Into the Dominican probles, unich sets an soverse

procodont in the Latin Anorican ares, heretofore

considered

tho

sacrOssnc! province of tho DAS.

The USSk has been jolted by the resolute

and rapid action taken by the USA in tho

nican Rapubile with

the announced objectiro of

stensing the tide of Castrolan,

For the first

time since the micsile crisin,

the USSR has

seon tangible indications that the lon

to savading a Carlbbean Island.

I viow of those preoccupations of both the

UnA and

tho USSe, & incit doal has como about:

(a). On 185 part

USA agross that

"gocial lan be

alloved to

oxist in Cuba,

but vithout fidel Castro,

Raul Castro and

Guevard;

the usa vould be villing to

accopt any othor Cubans nor in govorment

positions; the UsA la pilling to nake

concondions (undotorninod) alcohore in

the vorid.

SECRET

GROT

doyngrode 300

xi-423%

174 4 5925

---

