# docid-32286338

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10114

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1739

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/23/1965

1

SGI, ASSOC, OPINION, BATTAGLIA, SAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32286338

Page 1

89

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DALE: 11-14-2011

-3 (Rev. 12-14-64)

DECODED COPY

I CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO

Tolson -

Belmont

Moht -

De Loach

Casper L

Callahd

Conradi

Cale e

Rosen

Sullivan

Tave

Trotter -

Tele. Rg

Holmes/

Gandy

J AIRGRAM

• TELETYPE

R=16

DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

8-23-65

12:02 PM

231433

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUNMARY ..

Ill.

066756-0 ADVISED RECENTLY VISITED FARM OF SAM BATTAGLIA

AT WHICH TIME HE LEARNED THAT BATTAGLIA, WHILE ACTING HEAD

OF CHICAGO SYNDICATE WHILE GIANCANA. IN JAIL, HAS NO DESIRE

TO MAINTAIN THIS POSITION. INFORMANT STATES BATTAGLIA MERELY

DESIRES TO CONTINUE RECEIVING HIS CUT OF SYNDICATE PROCEEDS

AND: WANTS NOTHING TO DO WATH GIVING ORDERS OR SETTLING PROBLEMS,

FEELING THAT TO TAKE THIS UPON HIMSELF WILL MERELY CREATE

MORE PRESSURE FROM FEDERAL AUTHORITIES. BATTAGLIA FEELS

HE HAS SUFFICIENT FUNDS SO HE DOES NOT NEED TO PUSH FOR

FURTHER AUTHORITY TO INCREASE HIS WEALTH AND FEELS ADDITIONAL

PRESSURE DEFINITELY NOT WORTH TROUBLE. U

INFORMANT CLAIMS BECAUSE OF FOREGOING AND FROM INFORMATION

RECEIVED FROM OTHER SOURCES FAMILIAR WITH CHICAGO CRIME

GROUP THAT JACK CERONE NOW PROBABLY NUMBER ONE MAN AS FAR

AS ISSUING DIRECTIVES AND SETTLING DISPUTES. AS BUREAU AWARE

CERONE HAS INDICATED IN PAST HE FEELS HE SHOULD BE NUMBER

ONE MAN AND OBVIOUSLY MOULE PELISH OPPORTUNITY TO ASSUME

THIS POSITION.V

INPORILATION CONTAINE.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

RECEIVED: 12:31 PM DFD

DATE 4-24-84 BY SP5R5€/

CAl

REC-

• 15

EX 105

-3171-1159

14

• AUG 25 1965

5010

RET

EXCEPT

-TION CONTAINED

1965

1. *

UNCLASSIFIED

ERE SHOWN

oTHERWISE

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286338 Page 2

---

