# docid-32323822

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90021-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-5704-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/11/1968

60

JOE CAMPISI

JOSEPH CAMPISI

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

DölId: 32323822

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

C

r..

_contes mado po 468 cover pos

5-2-78

meadows

2293

"3CA204-20-78.2024e5t.

(See DutiZo #52-127690)

DocId: 32323822

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note). - DATE: 11-14-2017

Figurine

DL 92-339

The New Orleans Office also referred to New York

airtel to Dallas dated 6/4/68, entitled, "PETER PELLEGRINO",

New York file 92-1462, which reflects that New Orleans

telephone number 897-2612 was also called in the PELLEGRIN

investigation.

AL MEADOWS, who according to information set forth

in this report was telephoned at 214-147-2379 at a trailer home

at West Tawakond, Texas, is a known gambler and bookmaker and

is the subject of a case now in a closed status at Dallas,

entitled,

"ALBERT MEADOWS aka; ITWI", Bufile 165-1740, Dallas

file 165-199.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-I is C. HERBERT ROUSE, Security Supervisor,

(Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland,

Baltimore, Maryland, who

furnished information to SA MARION N.

WRIGHT.

DL T-2 1s ROGER ALLRED, Security Officer, Southern

Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, Charlotte, North Carolina,

who furnished information to SA LEON F. ANDREWS, JR.

DL T-3 iS CS DE 931-C who furnished information to

Agents of the Detroit Office.

DL T-4 is Ep 583-C and DL T-5 is EP 582-C who furnished

informatton to SA JOHN J. GORMAN.

DL T-6 is Mrs. DOROTHY PRICE, Business Office

Supervisor, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Midland,

Texas, who furnished information to SA JOHN J. GORMAN.

DL T-T is CS LA 4193-S who was contacted by

SE LLOYD H. DUDLEY.

DL T-8 is CS NH 408-5 who furnished information to

IC JOSEPH L. SHERIDAN, JR.

DI T-9 is ROBERT WILLIAMS, Security Supervisor,

South Central Bell Telephone Company, New Orleans, who

furnished information to SA JOHN E. DECKER.

- C-

Cover, Page

7

DocId: 32323822 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John

I F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note) :•

DATE: 11-14-2017

-

DL 92-339

DL T-10 is NK 2791-C who furnished information to

SA JOHN P. MC GRAIL.

DL T-11 1s WILLIAM R. ENNIS, Security Supervisor,

New York Telephone Company, who furnished information to

the New York Office.

DL T-12 is CS PX 804-C who furnished information

to SA J. RICHARD BUTTS.

DL T-13 is CS PX 734-C (Dun and Bradstreet) who

furnished information to SA DAVID OLIN HALE.

DL T-14 15 CAROL SCHULIZE, Security Office,

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, St. Louis, Missouri.

DL T-15. 15 KENNETH E. COMMONS, Diector of Security,

General Telephone Company of the Southwest, San Angelo, Texas.

DL T-16 1s DON ADAMS, Manager, General, Telephone

Company, Canton, Texas, who furnished information to SA KENNETH

R. ALBERT.

.. :

DL T-17 1S BILL WRAY, Security Supervisor, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Fort Worth, who furnished information to

SA EARLE HALEY.

DL T-18 is JERRY SHEPHERD, Area Security Supervisor,

Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Houston, Texas, who

furnished information to SA RICHARD w. SUTER.

- Di -

Cover Page

DocId: 32323822

Page

---

