# docid-32294466

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10213-10242

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

88-30913-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ANDERTON, JAMES W.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/29/1964

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

JCGR, ASSOC AND REL, INTV, RES, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294466

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Hote)

DATE: /11m14x2817)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

JOHN CESAR

"GROSSI aka - FUGITIVE

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/29/64

REPORT MADE BY

JAMES W.

ANDERTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

9/30 - 12/15/64

TYPEO SY

cah

UFAP - THEFT BY FALSE

PRETENSE

1-2-65

REFERENCES:

Report of SA JAMES W. ANDERTON, 10/22/64, at Dallas.

New York letter to Dallas, 10/23/64.

Chicago letter to Dallas,

10/27/64.

Report of SA KENNETH C. WALKER, 11/30/64, at Los Angeles.

Legat Ottawa letter to Bureau and Dallas,

11/25/64.

New York letter to Dallas and Boston, 12/2/64

→P-

ENCLOSURES

TO NEW ORLEANS: One (1) photograph of subject and one

copy of referenced Dallas report dated 10/22/64.

LEADS:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

- Bureau (88-30913)

2 - Dallas (88-6358)

SEE COPIES COVER PAGE B

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

88+30913

-=10

hat 2i

18

JAN

# 1965

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONE

SUng

REQUEST RECO.

DATE AWD. ...

HOM FAD.

UY.

P4 JAN 12

1985

DocId: 32294466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hqte)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 88-6358

BOSTON, CHICAGO AND LOS ANGELES - INFORMATION

Information copies being furnished above offices in

viey of past and possible future investigations these Divisions.

ALBANY DIVISION

AT KINGSTON, ONTARIO, CANADA.

1. Will, through ap-

propriate arrangements with the Xingston PD, arrange for check

of toll calls listed to the telephone of subject's wife, Mrs.

PATRICIA GERVAN BOWEN GROSSI, 36 Ellerbeck Street, telephone

546-7716.

Will consider setting forth leads for the Legat

ottawa, Canada, in the event above lead reflects calls nade from

other points in Canada.

AT ALBANY, NEW YORK. 1. Will consider alerting ap-

propriate law enforcement agencies to the fact that subject is

believed still traveling in a 1963 red Cadillac' convertible,

bearing Washington state license plates CEB 966:

2.

Will conduct any other logical investigation in an

effort to locate subject in the Albany area.. (It is to be noted

New York teletype to Albany and Dallas 11/12/64, reflected that

subject telephonically contacted EUGENE SCIUTTO, Hudson, New York,

on 11/6 and 7/64, stating he was calling from Albany, New York.)

ATLANTA DIVISION

AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA. 1. Will ascertain present placa

of confinement for FRANk CLAUDE RUMNEY, Atlanta Federal Peniten-

tary Inmate #78960A,

, noting that in Atlanta letter to Bureau asd

all continental offices dated 4/20/61, RUMNEY furnished information

concerning GROSSI and may have current information as to his

whereabouts.

Will set out lead to have RUNEY interviewed retarding

whereabouts of JOHN CESAR GROSSI.

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

- C

Cover Page

58-30913-10

DocId: 32294466

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 88-6358

The confidential source abroad referred to in the

details of this report is the Royal Canadian Hounted Price (ECHP),

Ottawa, Canada.

On 11/16/64, DL 217-C, and Du. 195-C, were contacted and

furnished photograph of subject and background by SA JAMES W.

ANDERTON.

As 01 12/15/64, these informants had been unable to

they would continue to be

-

Cover Page

88-30913-10

1=....

DocId: 32294466

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 88-6358

10/23/63 - New York City Club

10/31/63 - New Orleans Club

11/11/63 - Gift Shop Charge

New York City Club

12/9/63 - New York City Club

He further advised that their records also reflact the

subject furnished the address 3301 Hood Street, Dallas,

Toxas.

He concluded by stating that he would personally have his

secrotary write a letter to all Playboy Clubs advising them to

be on the lookout for this individuml or anyone using the key

club nerborship, whereupon the company would be notiflad.

Els

requested that

he be advised 11 the subjaet has been apprehended

or whethor subject is no longer wanted.

On October 13, 1964, records of the Chicago Credit

Bureau, Isc., as reviewed by IC RONALD W. DIBBERN contained I0

infornation identifiable with the subject.

On October 14, 1964, records dI tha Chicago Police

Department, Bureau of Records

and Carmurications, is reviewed

by IC A. P. PALBICKE, JR, contained no information idantifiabla

with the subject.

AT HAMILTON, ONTARIO, CANADA

A confidential source abrosd on Octobor 21, 1964,

advised that Dr. DERMAN L. TRACY Tan intA-viewed it the Mcastar

stated that on August 29,

talk with CROSSI'S viio, now PATRICIA ANN BOWEN, TO 11V6S 1

36 Ellerback Stroet in Kiugstos, Outar1'. Dr. TRICE 5t5ts1

durieg his conversation with Mrs. BONEN,

ha Isarred that scuaza33

during the surs of 1964, GROSSI bad stayad at the Bruca laut ald

bad loft without psying his bill.

IRACY stated that he has not heard iron cRossi aince GaosSi mas

rolsasod from the Rineston, Ontario Penitontlary in 1950,

stato that an inmate of Dorchestor Penitautiary, locuted

at Dorchester, New Brunswick, lson by the lie of RAPy C. PARIS,

had corresponded with GRossI

following his release but he did o

know the present whersabouts of ParkI.

This confidential source tbrosd also advised that 1usa1

SQUICeS DI infOrmatiCa 12 Hamilton, Ostarin, including the Credit

Bureau, Police Departreat and employcent agerciss,

some charlest pach

ragative results.

5

88-30913-10

DocId: 32294466 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 88-6358

AT LONDON, ONTARIO, CANAD!

A confidential source abroad furniskad the following

information on October 15, 1964:

M. VERN S. READY,

, Assistant Dous for the Collega of a

Education at tho University of Westera Dstar10, London, Catarto,

was contacted and Interviewed this dats with respect to crossI.

Hr. READY informed that ho knew CROSSI but alsn that he knew bim

est indoned that to

under the name of JACK BOWEN.

READY CaRe.to

be acquainted with

GROSSI after tho parriage between GRosSI sad GROSSI's wife,

PATRICIA.

PATRICIA GROSSI had beez & nonDer of READY'S torchiag

staff at

the bingston Collegiate and

vocational institute, toe

Frontense Street,

Ricgstos, Ontario.

READY a% this

Cine was the

Principal of the

above noted inatitutica and residad at Rural

Routa #1,

Kingston, Ontario.

PATRICIA waS & very Close frieud

of the family and

often stayed with

than at the above address.

FElT furthar advised that GROSSI had boen introduced

to hin as JACK BOWEN and whenever they net this is ths naze

that was used.

On July 1, 1964,

crossI visited READY at their

home 1n Kingston, GROSSI was alone at this tima and was driving

a Pontiac

Grand Prix. This car hsd

a U.S.d. license but READY

could not

rscall

fron where it was issusd

or the number.

GROSSE

trying to obtain information rogurdico his aife, pATRICIa,

and

going to

aad get things settled batwash

then.

GROSN7

kier that PATRICIA always went to the RADY faully for belovasa

she needed 1t.

READY nOver SaY CHOSSI alsor this visit sad Shorty

aftemands ou

July 20, 1964, READY morad fron Aligatoa to Lendoc,

On tar 10,

and 1s presently residing at 42 Long Boy Road, Londer,

Ontario.

It was

also learned during this intervior that GROSSI

bad visited with the READY family back in Octobar.

1963.

1e thle

time be was with bis nite and was also driviar the pontiac Cruns

Pris.

READY received a phone call fren PATRICIA CROSSI Lsre 25

London on the evening of october 4,

PATRICIA was just lonely and wanted 11 eposk with the family.

inforced si this

tins that GROSSI hid act beon 1a contact vira

her and that sas had no idos o1 his prosent whereabouts.

READY Informed that GROSSI äld Ict Knon his ci2x393

London but wis quite sure that ho kosw of his nove toroados

6

88-30913-10

DocId: 32294466 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC.2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 88-6358

and would have ao trouble locatin bin.

FENDY 15 quits willing

to asaist

the polico 1n locating GROSSI o01 should he be visitel

by GBCSSI 18 Londos, he will socity this offica canazataly.

On Cotober 14, 1964,

CECIL CHEMICK, 32 Misdale Crensees

Street, was intervluwed at his place sh

Abe's :Mans.

Markot, 3195 Bathurst Strest. CHERNICK adetsed be

net GROSSI.

and has seen pRoSsI en about

two occasins sincarhia parise vica the pritantiary in 10b.

CHERWICK

sinittod that he received

a chock fron GRoSSI s wite

sad forwarded it to GRossI in care of funeral Delivery, Daytous

Bosch, Floridanout did not furnishhe date that he bad forwarded

this check. CHERNICK also Claimod thet CROSSI wasnia Toronto,

Canada approximatoly two months provious aud that hones baldovid

to be driving a 1963 maroon coiored Ponting Crasd Prix,

a bear103

an unknown Texas license plate.

CHERNE CAStatod GROSSI allegedlv

told hin be was going to visit bis rita de vocara,

Canada, dad

he has not seon or heard from

Since that tine. CHERNIOT.

was seted is he would aurise de be ladle or terent co

gardin- GROSSI's whereabouts but CHERNICK declina Sta ag be woul

not inforn on anyone but stated

that ho definitaly did 1

n0t 623n

GEOSSI's preseut location.

- This

confidential source abroad also advised a check u

tha usual sources in the toronto arna wars nacasive and that sua

Ontario Provisclor Police:have circulasized descriptters 9f outs

the Pontino and the Cadillac which subject bus usad in the paad

AT KINGSTON, ONTARIO, CANADA

MrS. PATRICIA BOWSN GROSSI, 35

was recontacted by sA WIlLIal

birthday card for her son, JOIN, waose birthday was on September

14, 1964, and that it bore s message fron the subjoct but did

not in any may indicate his whereabouts.

She stated sto was unable

to locate the card at the present timo but recallad it bore the

postairi of Toronto, Ontario, Canade, and Speculatsd trut 15 vis

nailed for the subjoct by his friard, CECIL CHERNICK, 32 Wasdale

Crescene, Toronto,

Canada.

she statod that the rogson for her

spaculation to this effect was the reason that this was the caly

7

88-30913-10

DocId: 32294466

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Agt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 88-6358

AT BOSTON MASSACHUSETTS

On October 27, 1964, Sergeant JOHN BELLIVIEW, Massachusetts

State Police, advised SA DONALD A, THIEL that he had received

teletype regarding JOHN CESAR GROSSI end his possible travel ca

the Massachusetts Turnpike but had developed so positive lafor

mation relative to him. He said he would advisa the FBI if this

individual was picked up.

On October 28, 1964, Miss MARY REMBLE, Hotel Protective

association, who circularizes all of the major hotels

and notels

in the Boston area, was alerted to the possible presence of subject

at the hotels and motels in the Bostor area. She stated that she

would innediately submit to all of the hotels and motels covere.

by her association a letter describing subject and request that

if they obtain any information to contact her office or the FBi:

On November 4, 1964, Miss KEMBLE advised that all of the

hotels and motels had been notified but that she had received no

reply fron then.

AT DORCHESTER, NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA

Cn November 24, 1964, a confidential source abroad advised

FLAT RALPE CAVEBELL PARKS, an inmate of the Dorchester Penitaaaaay

as InTerViewed O-tober 21, 1954;

aad stated the last time be re-

ceived & latter frou GROSSI and GRosSi's wife was durtos the.

Christmas season of 1965 and that this latter ves postaaca

ReDiret, Onsario, Carada.

PARKS aIse stated that about st

forwarded

a letter to GROSSI at sone wimber baween.

1815 Stevens Forest Drive, Dallas,

Texas.

se stated thaa

I reply to this letter and bes unt heard

bj36

AT HUDSON, NEW YORK

On November 12, 1964, EUGENE SCITTIO, 6081 Warren Steset,

advised he had received a phone call fron the subject about 8:00 pu,

Novesber 6, 1964, from Albany, New york.

subject stated be badeduse

returned fron Boston; was calling fron Albany, sad wold visit solute

that night.

subject phoned SCIUTTO again at

about 1:00

7, 1954, stating be had met some irisads and therefore planned

visit the next day. To date subject his not visited sclurto.

88 30913-10

DocId: 32294466 Page 8

---

