# docid-32248420

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/14/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10078-10478

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

009427

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NH 54756 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: FBI

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 06/22/1978

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

FBI

CIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

173-4. Box 173..

v9.1

1Ы 54756

DooId: 32248420

Page

1

---

## Page 2

KENNEDY

009427

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 6/22/78

TIME

Identifying Information:

Name FBI

Address

Telephone

Type of Contact:

Telephone

Person

II.

Summary of Contact:

On May 18, 19 and June 1, I reviewed the files of Orlando

Bosch Avila and the Cuban organization which he headed;

Movimento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

(MIRR) •

It should be noted that on pages 8 and 9 of the MIRR

review, items 3, 4, and 5 contain information about

Frank Fiorini which is of interest to this committee.

III.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

Ww 54756: DooTdignature Pay Bitey Falmer

FOrM

#5

---

## Page 3

Flle Review

May 18,

1978

Betsy Palmer

Orlando Bosch Avila

Misc.

References

Access only

many

deletions

1.)

Cable from Buenos Aires to Director - 14 Aug. '77.

AUSA Propper going to Venezuela to interview Bosch

re captioned

assassination.. (CHILBOM: PFO MURDER;

EID; OJJ; 00: 219) (pp. 6 Venezuela denied Propper

direct access to Bosch

but Bosch has been allowed

to be interviewed by reporters.

Bosch has been

mentioned constantly in captioned matter, too often

for him not to be directly or indirectly involved

(in sender's opinion) .)

pp. 182

Propper should request documents given by DINA

to Bolando Otero Hernandez with regard to assassination

of Luis Andres Pascual Allende in Costa Rica.

AlSO,

Propper should get info on June 1976 CORU meeting in

Dominican Republic.

One of possible motives for Letelier assassination

was

revenge against Chilean government by Cuban exiles

for delivery to FBI of Otero, which was viewed by Cuban

exiles as betrayal of their cause.

Letelier's assassination may have been conceived

at June 1976 meeting.

Joel Dionisio Suarez Esquivel

proposed there that each group be represented in a

military coordination group and first meeting should

be in Florida on 6/27/76 at a location selected by

Armando Lopez Estrada of 2506 Brigade. Dr. Juan Pulido

proposed that Morales be assassinated but Legat B.A.

doesn't believe it was

because of his betrayal of Bosch

10 years ago--rather his betrayal of Otero.

2. Cable from B.A. to Dir.

23 Sept. 177.

Suarez

arrived in Chile one day after Bosch and

Guillermo Novo and Dr. Orlando Fernandez and he departed

with Guillermo Novo en route to Columbia.

Ejercito Secreto De Cuba (ESC) believed to be anti-

Castro Cuban exile group affiliated with URO (United

Revolutionary Organization). URO formed of 5 terrorist

groups in June 1976 D.R. meeting and under leadership of

NN 54756 DocId: 32248420 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Orlando Bosch Avila

2

0.B. (Royal Canadian Mounted Police memo atd. 10/6/76.)

Ejercito

Secreto

De Cuba

< Symbol

3.).

Attack on U.S. Embassy in Ottawa in 66/67 and Cuban

Commercial Office in Montreal carried out by Joven

Cuba - group of young fascists who had formerly

been

allied to Carlos Prio and a group of Ramiro de

la Fe; a Bay of Pigs invador.

(Allegation made in

press conference of Carlos Rivero Collado over Radio

Havana Cuba, circa Jan. 1975.

Cuban Secret Government is a terrorist gang of

former 1968 Cuban Power and ARA-MIRR members.

In NOV.

1973, they planned to assassinate U.N. Ambassador .

Ricardo Alarcon Quesada.

Among these terrorist groups, there are coordinators,

cell chiefs and cell members.

Cuban Nationalist

Movement and Zero Group

Cuban Secret Gov't.

, Cuban: Action

Cuban National

Liberation Front

-- Felipe Reviro Diaz

--- Guillermo Novo Sampol

Hector A. Fabian

Francisco Hernandez

Guillermo Miguel

-- Orlando Bosch Avila

Antonio Calatayud

... "

Ramon Orozco Crespo

Angel J. Ferrer

Frank Castro

Humberto Lopez

Alfredo Sayuz

Gustavo Marin

• Duarte

Former Bay of Pigs Cell Chiefs

---

Luis Acevedo

Edwin Gonzalez

Guido Sanz Y Perez

de Villa

Reviro Collado claims Manuel Artime was an active partici-

pant in Watergate break-in.

Also involved Mike Suarez

NY 54756 DocId: 32248420 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Orlando Bosch Avila

3

4.)

Fernandez. Claims Cuban Liberation Front participated

inWatergate Conspiracy. Also Bebe Rebozo and Edgardo

Buttari.

Memo - first page missing - informant info.

RE: Jrank Castro & FLNC.

Castro says FLNC should

concentrate on plans to bomb Cuban embassies. Castro

has passes to military bases in D.R. Castro says Raul

Cabrera has all FLNC equipment and only he (Cabrera)

knows where it is hidden.

Says he can easily transport

explosives due to his excellent contacts in Dominican

Air Force.

5.) Cable from B.A. to Dir. dtd. Jan. 28, 1977.

Bosch, utilizing Pedro Antonio Pena identify,

entered Chile from Peru 12/3/74.

Female source says he left Dec.

28, 1975--was using

Pena identity.

CIA advised ....

.... (about 4 lines)

Obviously Delgado would have valuable information

concerning Cuban exile contacts who visited Bosch in

Santiago during year he was there. Legat B.A. will show

photos to Delgado.

Bosch resided at San Barja Towers and this apartment

building has been identified as one of DINA locations.

(More CIA deletion

2 lines)

6.) Cable from Caracas to Dir.

2417002 Sept. '76.

Bosch confides to intimales that Novo brothers

planned Letelier murder for DINA.

Frank Castro, CORU leader, failed to travel to

Caracus and join Bosch 9/19/76 as planned. Left

Managua, Nicaragua for Miami 9/12/76.

Returned to D.R.

and proceeded to San Juan P.R. on 9/17/76, back to D.R.

on 9/20.

To proceed to Caracas on 9/24.

CORU planning to kidnap a Mexican diplomat to force

release of jailed CORU members Oresta Ruiz Hernandez

and Jaspar

Eugenio Jimenez.

(source information)

HH 54756 DocId: 32248420 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Orlando Bosch Avila

4

7.)

Cable from Caracas

9/17/76

rec'd.

Bosch arrived Caracas 9/12 from Nicaragua, using

passport issued to Carlos Luis Paniagua Mendez.

Also has Chilian passport--Hector Emilio D'Avanzo

Cintolecci.

8.)

Report from San Juan dtd. March 21, 1977

Brigade 2506 is one of 5 original groups that

make up CORO.

Informant said Roberto Carballo, Pres.

of Brigade, issued press release condemning terrorist

acts

of CORO and "El Condor."

Criticism could stem

from need to publicly disclaim association. Carballo

hinted he may withdraw from group but Armando Lastra,

2506 leader in Puerto Rico, unaware of any such plans.

An informant said Miami people connected with

Pragmatistas

recently in P.R. attempting to identify

informants with in CORU. Pragmatistas connected with

numerous political Rellingo in Miami.

9.) Cable from Caracas to Director - 22 Sept. '76.

Bosch feeding misinformation to Oscar Angulo because

Angulo is known as an informer to law enforcement

authorities.

Bosch said Angulo was the "Mister X" who

furnished info on Bosch during his trial in Miami.

Informant said Frank Castro could give him name

of other CORU member suspected of being an informant.

10.) Cable from Caracas to Director - 4 Oct. '76.

Frank Castro in Caracas. Says Angulo only CORU

informant. Denied CORU plans to kill informants.

DE RUE A 11: A #39443162356

11.)

Cable from CIA to FBI dtd. 11 Nov. 1976. Cite CIA 941916

Sub: Travel of Eulalio Francisco (Frank) Castro Paz

Official Dominican Service reported Castro, affiliated

with CORU, arria Santa Dominto from Madrid

on 11/7/76,

Iberia #979.

Noted Cubana airlines office in Madrid bombed on

7 Nov. '76 at 0200 hours and Iberia #979 for S.D. deported

Madrid at 0155 hrs. same day. Have no info. Castro involved.

Info concerns a U.S. person who reportedly is involved

in international

terriorist activities abroad.

HH 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Orlando Bosch Avila

5

DE RUEAIM 5879 363 2056

12.) CIA Cable to FBI. 28 Dec. '76. Cite CIA 963642

Info. from Frank Castro re: Activities of CORU.

(a) According to official Costa Rican service, Castro

in C.R. Dec. 13-18, 197

-, said he was Chief of operations

of CORU but not in

C.R. to undertake terrorist acts.

CORU had a pack with Pres. Carlos Andres Perez of

Venezuela not to undertake terrorist acts in C.R.,

Nicaragua, Guatemala or Venezuela in return for

safe

passage for 0. Bosch in March 1976.

Bombs in San Jose, C.R. on 24 Aug. '76 were placed

by CORU Command Unit - lack

of CORU coordination resulted

in this error.

Parama not included in agreement because it has

become transfer point for Castro-Cuban subversives.

13.) FBI report dtd. Dec. 14, 1976. Re: Ignacio Roberto

Novo Sampol

Interviewed on 10/21/76 re:

Letelier

Murder on 9/21/76.

Novo says Frank Castro invited CNM reps (Cuban Nationalist

Movement) to meeting in Santo Domingo but CNM did not

trust CAstro.

Some of their members attended independently,

Novo thinks Morales and Bosch both Castro agents.

14.) Feb. 13, 1976 Cable from USSS says extremely reliable

confidential informant of Dade Cty. Publ. Safety Dept.

just returned from So. America. reported info of alleged

attempt to be made on life of Henry Kissinger. Informant

reportedly very close to Orlando Bosch.

15.) Correlation Summary dtd 9/21/67.

#105-141949-4

Subject:

Orlando Bosch Avila

Bosch

and Varona met in NYC on 6/3-4/67 with Novo

brothers to discuss future plans of anti-Casto Cubans

and plans centered in Canada.

16. )

Report from Miami dtd. May 8, 1975

Subject: Dunney Pio Perez Alamo

Formerly with Cuban Revolutionary Army, associated with

Hubert Matos. Collecting money for Bosch in 1975.

HW 54756 DooId: 32248420

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Orlando Bosch Avila

6

17.)

Memo titled:. Anto-Castro Activities by SA Robert James

Divyer, dtd. 8/12/75.

I Bombings and Terrorism

on 8/6/75, stick of dynamite went off in parking

lot of offices of "Revista" Magazine.

Little damage

and authorities speculate Max Lesnik himself exploded

dynamite for publicity purposes.

18.)

Report dtd: Apri. 28, 1967

Frank Angelo Fiorini

Orlando Bosch Avila

etc.

Info. that Fiorini going to Mexico to blow up a Cuban

ship, possibly in Veraeruz, Mexico.

Accompanied by

his son, Ronald Edward Thompson and Donald Francis Roche.

Thompson supplied following information:

Fiorini planned bombing with 0. Bosch head of MIRR.

Bombs were inside panels

of rear doors of Fiorinis

While in Mexico, Fiorini wired for and received

$200 from Bosch. Buried explosives between Cuidad Mante

and Cuidad Victoria.

Thompson and Fiorini and Bosch

net at Golden Fontain restaurant about 3 times durinc

first week of April, 1967.

Cs

HH

54756

DocId: 32248420

Page

8

---

## Page 9

Miscellaneous References :

1.)

Report dtd. 11/29/76 from Miami

Re:

Roberto Carballo Diaz

"States 2506 Brigade is part of CORU. Action was

taken

in concurrence with Directorate of Brigade 2500,

of which Armando Lopez Estrada is a part--Lopez Estrada

is military director.

Carbello says he is aware of fact that Ruiz and

Jimenez arrested in Mexico and charged with attempt to

kidnap Cuba's Counsul in Merida, Yucatan, Mexico in

July '76. Denied any prior knowledge of

this act.

Would

not say who was supporting Ruiz/Jimenez. A Cuban national

was killed in kidnapping attempt.

Says he knows of an organization called FLNC but

would not comment as to its members.

Informant (2506 member) says Carballo and Armando

Lopez Estrada have aligned themselves with CORU and

other. Brigade members opposed to this cooperation with

a terrorist group and were considering challenging Carballos'

leadership.

2.) Report from Miami: 8/25/76.

Teofilo Babun advised FBI he was close friend of

Admiral Cesar Dewint of D.R.

When Babun came to Miami

as exile in 1962, he contacted Dewint and obtained

franchise to operate cargo vessels between U.S. & D.R.

Babun is a D.R. citizen.

Said Frank Castro married

Deivent's daughter and lives in D.R.

Babun's nephew

in business with Castro in D.R. Castro and Babun travel

to D.R. together in Babuns' Lockheed Lodestar.

Castro advised FBI on 10/8/75 he leader of FLNC,

closely associated with Dominican Air Force, teachs::

parachuting. States he was

not involved in bombing

of Dominican Consulate in Miami in Oct. 1975.

Ships owned by Babun have been used to carry supplies

for raiding parties and to transport Cuban exiles going

to D.R. for clandestine purposes..

Also, his ships have

been

used by terrorist inflitration teams : which have

!. entered.Cuba.

HH 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Miscellaneous References

2

Humberto Lopez Nunez, FLNC terrorist, is fugitive

of U.S. and lived with Castro in D.R.

On 9/27/75, two bombings in Bogato, Columbia for

which FLNC claimed credit.

Castro told FBI he had been

in Bogata and

spoke knowledgeably of bombings.

3 .)

Report from Miami,. 9/14/76. Re: CORU.

Frank Castro has formed a satellite organization to

carry out terrorist activities in U.S. In Miami the

Calandestine cell will be called Youth of the Star and

in N.y.. called F-14.

Castro pointed out that terrorist

activity in U.S. beneficial to CORU must be claimed by

these secret cells, but CORU must publicly condemn these

actions.

(informant info).

4.) Cable from Buenos Aires to Dir. Jan. 13, 1977. CIA

secured info that after Letelier murder, Directorate

General of Investigations (DGI) started investigation

into activities of Orlando Bosch during his 1975 stay

in Santiago.

CIA reported that Director of DINA was

instrumental in stopping the DGI investigation and

prohibiting Chilean officials from discussing case with

any Americans.

Jamie Vasquez Alcaino, Director of Interpol

Section of Chilean Investigations

(I.C.) reflected that

motion rector migionnections with

DINA director might well have briefed the President

Pinochet Bosch's

Intelligence Services and that Chilean gov't. might

easily be indicted by inference with Letelier assassination.

no goody stone it to ter rese resaesnation.-

Pages and Pages. of CIA deletions--also St. Dept. 1977.

5.)

Report from Miami 3/24/77 Re: Accion Cubana (AC)

Informant says Gaspar Jimenez made two attempts

to sabotage and blow up Cubana Airline planes in

summer of 1976 in Panama and Kingston, Jamaica.

Cs

HH 51756 DocId: 32248420

Page 10

---

## Page 11

5/19/78

B. Palmer

FBI File

Review - MIRR

#97-4474

- Sections 1-7 plus miscellaneous references

Miscellaneous References

Index of anti-Castro organizations dated 12/8/60

#109-584 526(?)

p.37 - MIRR - Movimento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

Formed in early August 1960 when four army officers and

100 men deserted and left for Las Villas mountains under Capt.

Quino Membribe. Claim 30 more officers and 300 men ready to

join them. In August, Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila, ex-chief of

26th of July Movement in Las Cillas and MIRR delegate in exile,

issued a call for Rebel Army men to desert. Victor Manuel

Paneque allegedly has assumed military leadership of this group,

which is now part of the AL (Alianza de Liberacion).

August 21, 1964 - Report from Miami re: Commandos I

Commandos I has military agreement with MIRR. Both

organizations have temporarily suspended all pending military

operations against Cuba, while Commandos L negotiates for a base

in the Dominican Republic.

HH 54756

DocId: 32248420

Page

11

---

## Page 12

5/19/78

Palmer

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 2

MIRR

#97-4474 - Section 1 of 7

Serials 1-60

1960-63

1. Cable to Director from Miami dated 11/2/60

Bosch says objectives of MIRR are:

I. defection of army officers and men

sabotage throughout Cuba

3.

isolation of Cuba by all countries of the Americas

4. intense propaganda abroad.

Bob Hopkins, CIA-Miami, says they have no operational

or other interest in Bosch. Unverified reports they have

received indicate Paneque is a Castro agent.

(Notation

says ONI informed FBI they have no operational interest

in Paneque, but he was in for an interview.)

2. November 20, 1960 - Cable to Director from Miami

Alexander I. Rorke,

aka Alex Rourk, is informant

FBI -- having been previously employed by them for six

months in NYC as a clerk. Rorke scheduled to depart with

Paneque on boat -- mission sponsored by MIRR.

weapons and radio equipment into Cuba.

Transporting

Boat probably was

Jolly Roger III. Customs and Border Patrol alerted.

3. Report from Miami dated January 23, 1961

#62-3583

Informant states Frank Fiorini presently cooperating

associating with Paneque and Bosch and that MIRR is

establishing training camp in Florida and anticipates

military expedition in Cuba in near future.

4. January 19, 1961 - Cable to Director from Miami

Bosch tells authorities he wishes to cooperate with

U.s. government.

Informant advised that Paneque was going

to be placed in Cuba through Guantanamo Bay sometime soon

by "the Americans" ::-- not further identified.

CIA advises FBI "that it has absolutely no operational

interest in MIRR or Frank Anthony Sturgis, aka Fiorini."

HH 54756 DocId: 32248420

Page 12

---

## Page 13

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 4

#97-4474 - Section 1 of 7 (Cont'd)

Serials 1-60

1960-63

Bosch estimates strength of MIRR in Cuba as 700 - 1,000

fighting against Castro.

Has a total of 2-4,000 men --

some in each province but greatest strength in Santa Clara

Province. Members consist of civilians, professional and

military men. Only 10-12 members in Miami.

Program of MIRR

1. Immediate removal of all Communists

2.

Revision of all laws passed since January 1, 1959

3. Agrarian reform

4. Encouragement of tourist trade

5. Abolition of death penalty

6. Elimination division and class hatred

7. Amnesty for political prisoners

8. Revision of

all sentences passed by revolutionary

tribunals

9. Revision and study of international policies

10. Revise and reconsider all treaties

11. Protection of private capital, Cuban and foreign

12. Attempt to nationalize foreign industries w/proper

payment

13. Abolition of militias, juvenile patrols, etc.

14.

Immediate repression of secret police

15.

Removal of Communists from the judiciary

16.

Reestablishment of freedom of the press

17.

Return of property to rightfül owners

18.

Build up foreign exchange

19.

Free elections as soon as possible

20. Respect and protect worker as well as property owner

21. Reparation of injustices committed by Communist regime.

Slogans are "Democracy or death" and "We Give Our

Lives to Fight Communism."

6. March 29, 1961 - Memo to Office of Security, Dept. of State

From:

John Edgar Hoover

Subject: MIRR

Bosch interviewed by Miami FBI on 3/27/61 and admitted

he sent small expedition aboard Jolly Roger on 3/17/61 for

purpose. of opening

another front in Los Organos Hills of

Pinar del Rio Province in Cuba.

Five men went ashore,

including an American, Angus McNair, Jr.

Cuban government

reported all five were arrested on 3/20/61. Bosch claims

his contacts indicate only one Cuban arrested - Gilberto

Betancourt.

NH 54756 DooId:32248420. Page 13

---

## Page 14

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 3

#97-4474 - Section 1 of 7 (Cont'd)

Serials 1-60

1960-63

5.

January 18, 1961 - Report from Miami by George E. Davis, JI.

Subject: MIRR - 33 pages

Victor Manuel Paneque y Batista, aka "Commandante

Diego," arrived U.S. September 3, 1960 after stealing a

fishing boat and picked up by U.s. Coast Guard.

Said

purpose of trip was to solicit aid for MIRR.

Paneque

joined 26th of July Movement in early. 1956 in Cuba and

engaged in underground activity against Batista government.

Joined Fidel Castro on November 22, 1957 and received

commission as Major in Rebel forces.

On 1/1/59 commissioned Major in regular Cuban Army

and named Chief of Rural Police until dissolved in April

1959. In July he became Chief of Public Order and served

as such until his departure September 1, 1960.

Bosch seeks legal

counsel in December 1960 to become

registered under Foreign Agents' Registration Act. Bosch

DPOB: August 18, 1926, Las Villas, Cuba

Arrived Miami, July 31, 1958 as a tourist,

suffering bleeding peptic ulcers

Wife:

DI. Myriam Ares Fernandes

Bosch INS

• #A11 881 810

Pediatrician by profession.

Graduated University of

Havana Medical School 1953; interned at Toledo

Hospital, Toledo, Ohio in

1953-54 and served

as resident at St. Joseph's Hospital,

Memphis, Tennessee from 1954-1955.

Named Chief of 26th of July Movement in Las Villas

Province on January 1, 1959 when Batista regime collapsed.

Resigned three months later when known communist, Calixto

Morales,

was appointed Military Governor of Las Villas

Province.

When he realized Castro government was becoming

communistic, he

formed MIRR with Joaquin Membribe and

Victor Paneque.

Came to U.S. July 30, 1960 as a tourist to serve as

Civilian Coordinator of MIRR. Also was his purpose to secure

arms and supplies for MIRR in Cuba.

N4 54756 DocId:32248420 Page 14

---

## Page 15

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 5

#97-4474 - Section 1 of 7 (Cont'd)

Serials 1-60

1960-63

7. June 9, 1961 - Report from Miami - George E. Davis, Jr.

Subject: MIRR

Informant advises Bosch has shut down radio transmitting

equipment in his home and inactive at present time.

Hopeful U.S. government will take action against Cuba.

8. June 9, 1961 - Report from Miami contains statement of Bosch de-

nouncing U.S. government for its failure in Bay of Pigs op-

„eration and asserts Cubans must help themselves.

States that he and Paneque still friends but Paneque

no longer a member of MIRR.

9. January 22, 1962 - Report from Miami

Bosch reports MIRR presently dormant.

10. August 16, 1963 - Cable to Director from Miami

MIRR claims responsibility for bombing of Bolivar

Sugar Mill in Camaguey Province.

Miami Cubans doubtful

as MIRR is not an active group.

11. September 13, 1963

MIRR claims responsibility for bombing Cunagua sugar

mill August 15, 1963.

On 9/10/63 Bosch advised two planes

bombed Jaronu

sugar mill from a Central American base

on 9/8/63.

Said all crew were Cubans -- no American

citizens.

12. December 13, 1963 - Report from Miami

Subject: MIRR

U.S. Customs claims Cessna-310 aircraft, N4822B, used

on bombing raids over sugar mills in August/September 1963.

Plane rented by Jack Benson Griffin of Miami (DOB -

Jack anne a

12/4/22)• Griffin is a well qualified pilot. Griffin said

Bill Johnson instructed him to fly plane to Bimini.

Prior to the August 14 flight, Griffin and Johnson met

with Orlando Bosch.

Griffin left plane on airstrip at

Bimini with full tank of fuel.

Picked it up next day with

nearly empty fuel tank.

Repeated this operation August 31,

1963 and September 7, 1963.

Bosch in Chicago circa Sept. 1963 on fund-raising

activities.

When they get $20,000 they will move their

operation out of the U.S.

1N 54756 D0010.32246420 Page 15

---

## Page 16

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 6

#97-4474 - Section 1 of 7 (Cont'd)

Serials 1-60

1960-63

13. December 12, 1963 memo to J. Walter Yeagley from Director

states

has advised MIRR is not a CIA operation.

14.

Information Report from CIA - September 11, 1963

Source:

Trained observer with access to wide variety of

Cuban

exiles.

Source is

known to most of his contacts as

a channel to U.S. Intelligence from Bill Johnson.

Field Comment: Previously reported Cuban exiles may be planning

air strike against MIG base in Cuba. Strike to involve

2 rocket-armed aircraft which were to stage from airfield

in Georgia used by agriculture fumigation aircraft.

Two aircraft being sold for total sum of $16,000 to Bill

Johnson by Aero Enterprises, Inc. of La Porte, Indiana.

Have no equipment and not armed. Johnson has

napalm loaded

drop tanks which he will attach in La Porte.

15. Information Report from CIA dated 7 and 8 September 1963.

Re:

Details on 9/7/63 bombing mission and leaflet drop

in Camaguey Province by MIRR.

Bill Johnson, an American, has full control over

all MIRR operations. Orlando Bosch supplies

the money

which he obtains from Chiri Mendoza. Neither Bosch nor

Mendoza knows the exact nature of the mission until it

has been completed and until they are advised by Johnson.

MIRR has gained confidence over last three raids,

but Johnson is a little worried about his next plan because

the target is of a military nature and could cause inter-

national repercussions and/or bring them under prosecution

on the Neutrality Act.

16.

Information Report - CIA - September 10, 1963

source:

Cuban exile trained in techniques of information

gathering - unidentified member: of MIRR.

Says initial funds for first raid on Camaguey were

qiven to Bosch by Paulino A. Sierra Irom tunds which

Sierra has received from U.S. gambling interests in

Chicago.

(Note: Bosch was in Chicago for fund-raising

in September 1963 -- see item 12 of these notes.)

Frank Nelson of Miami area gave Bosch down payment for

September

7 raid at a meeting in a Hollywood, Florida motel.

HN 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 16

---

## Page 17

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 7

#97-4474

- Section 1 of 7 (Cont'd)

Serials 1-60

1960-63

17. Domestic Intelligence Division - Informative Note

November 13, 1963

President will be in Cape Canaveral 11/16/63 fOr

speech and will spend weekend 11/16-17/63 in Palm Beach

and speak in Tampa 11/18/63. Bosch is leading anti-

castro Cuban who has conducted raids against Cuba. We

have previously received intormation anti-Castro

Cubans considering picketing President in Florida. We ...v

advised Secret Service and White House detail.

54756

DooId: 32248420

Page 17

---

## Page 18

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 8

5/19/78

Palmer

#97-4474 Section 2 of 7

Serials 61-116

Domestic Intelligence Note - 12/28/63 and cable of same

date detail planned bombing raid against Cuba by MIRR in

boat Ebb Tide.

Person in charge of

operation, named Evelio Alpizar

Perez, in fact was FBI informant. Bill Johnson involved

in this raid.

A Piper Aztec plane also involved in plan

and U.S. Customs plan to seize it on. afternoon of

December 29, 1963. FAA also alerted.

2. Report dated 12/18/63 - details plans for raid over Cuba.

Johnson obtained plane. Alpizar flew it in test

flight December 16-17. Bombs to be transported by boat

to Bimini.

Bombing expert is Orlando Ramirez.

Further info in this file on subject raid as follows:

William Johnson - DPOB: February 11, 1931, New York, N.Y.

White male, 6'1", 250 lbs., married,

3 children

Supplied information to CIA in 1963 re MIRR.

3.

Information Report - CIA - dated 30 October 1963 - Re: Bill

Johnson's proposed use of pilot Harry Manning in Future

Independent Air Strikes over Cuba. Report #CS DB-3/658, 401

Date Distr.: 11 December 1963

Field Report No. UFG-4183

Place and Date Acq.:

United States, Miami; 14 November 1963

Source:

Trained observer with access to a wide variety

of Cuban exiles, source is known to most of his

contacts

as a channel to U.S. Intelligence.

This information was obtained from Frank Fiorini.

On 30:October 1963 Jack Griffin told Frank Fiorini,

an American pilot who has been involved in the planning

of air strikes over Cuba, that Bill Johnson has decided

to use Harry Manning in

any future independent raids over

Cuba instead of Griffin. Griffin remarked that he has been

"burned out" by Johnson who wants to use someone less

known

• than

• Griffin.

H# 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 18

---

## Page 19

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 9

#97-4474 - Section 2 of 7

Serials 61-116

4. CIA. Intelligence Information Cable - 17-19 January 1964

TDCS DB 3/659,217

Distr.:

26 January 1964

Re:

Possible Air Strike Against Cuba by the MIRR to

Originate in British Honduras

Source: (Same as #3 above -- Frank Fiorini.)

Since Bosch's raid against Cuba blocked by Customs

agents on 31 December '63, Bosch against organizing a

new effort.

However, on 1/19/64 Bosch raising money for

new project. Project to originate from British Honduras.

CIA Intelligence Info Cable

23 January 1964

TDCS DB 3/659, 208

Distr.: 25 January 1964

Place:

U.S., Miami (24 January '64)

Source: Same as 3 and 4 - Fiorini

Bill Johnson tells Fiorini he wanted to be seen with

him over weekend January 25-26 because there would be

an air strike over Cuba and Johnson wanted a witness

that he was not in the plane. Johnson said pilot would be

a Cuban.

6.

FBI did mail check on the following in March 1964 to

obtain

information about their source of funds. Thirty-day

check.

MIRR

Laredo Gonzalo Rodriguez

Dr. Orlando Bosch Avila

7. March 26, 1964 - Airtel to Director from SAC, Miami

Outlines reliability of their informant (deleted)

in the past and

states that Bosch has confidence in him --

a 4-page memo asking headquarters to reconsider "and

approve Alpizar for development as a PSI."

Wash. denies

request on 3/30/64 because he has history of past mental

instability and propensity to become involved in anti-

Castro matters would make him difficult to control.

8.

Report from Miami - March 28, 1964

Subject:

MIRR

Informant states MIRR now cooperating with Commandos L

which is under leadership of Antonio Cuesta and Ramon Font.

Says Bosch interested in long-range plan of establishing

base of operations in Dominican Republic.

HH 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 19

---

## Page 20

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 10

#97-4474 - Section 2 of 7

Serials 61-116

9.

April 3, 1964 - Memo from J. Walter Yeagley to Director-FBI

says CIA informed him on March 30, 1964 that neither MIRR nor

Commandos L was. CIA operation.

10. Teletype dated 5/11/64 to Director from Miami

Bosch plans joint sea and air attack raid to sink "Las

Villas," a Cuban

freighter recently departed from France

with load of heavy equipment. Attack planned of coast of

South Florida.

Jerry Fuller, brother of Bobby Fuller who

was executed by Fidel Castro, is involved.

11.

May 21, 1964 report on MIRR states U.S. Customs seized a

homemade torpedo from car of Orlando Bosch on May 12.

Source says a floating explosive mine had been transported

to Palm Beach to be used against Las Villas.

HH 54756

DocId: 32248420

Page

20

---

## Page 21

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 11

#97-4474 - Section 3 of 7

Serials 117-165

5/19/78

Palmer

1. Report from Miami 5/27/64

Las Villas changed its course and did not approach

South Coast of Florida -- Bosch calls off planned mission.

2. June 24, 1964 report on MIRR

Informant says Bosch has $3,000 for another air

attack which he hopes to carry out June 27-28, 1964 --

using airstrip in Bahamas.

Target is sugar mill near

city of Punta Alegre, Camaguey Province.

3. UPI press story reports Ministry of Armed Forces, Cuba

announced they had shot down a "pirate" plane which had

dropped bombs on a sugar mill. Bosch said he feared it

was an MIRR plane.

4. Teletype to Director from Miami - 6/24/64

Informant says plane shot down was sponsored by

MIRR and there were no survivors. (Other reports say

two crew members hospitalized.)

5. June 30, 1964 - Airtel to Director from Miami

Says Customs placing 24-hour surveillance on Bosch

and other leading MIRR personalities anticipating another

raid over Cuba might be attempted June 27 or 28.

6. 11/22/64 - Washington Post and Times Herald, Washington, D.C.

papers, carried story in which MIRR claimed responsibility

of air attack over Cuban baseball stadium in assassination

plot against Castro. Castro had not arrived at stadium at

time of attack.

7. 1/14/65 - Report from Miami

Informant says Bosch continues as head of MIRR but

not operating out of his residence. Planning a bombing

raid against Cuba sometime after January 3, 1965.

Bosch said MIRR sympathizers in Puerto Rico were

contributing to the organization.

8.

January 19, 1965 Report from Miami

Subject: MIRR

Miami Herald, on 1/18/65 contained MIR press release in

which MIRR claimed a bombing raid against all cane fields

from Niagara sugar mill to westernmost regions of island on

1/17/65. Informant doubts press release is true.

NH 54756 DoOId:32246420 Page 21

---

## Page 22

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 12

#97-4474 - Section 4 of 7

Serials 166-224

5/19/78

Palmer

1. Intelligence Information Cable - Feb. 2, 1965

TDCS DB 315/00379-65

Alleged Abortive Air Raid over Cuba by MIRR

Source: Bill Johnson

Jack Wright on first leg of air strike over Cuba

when plane crashed and he was killed -- on landing

attempt at Freeport, Grand Bahamas Island, February 2,

1965.

Wright had flown this plane on January 17, 1965

when MIRR bombed Niagara sugar mill in Pinar del

Province.

2. Intelligence Info Cable - 20 February 1965

TDCS DB 315/00652-65

Re: MIRR. Intention to Bomb Havana

Source:

Bill Johnson

Johnson says Bosch still planning to bomb Havana

against Johnson's advice.

Johnson admitted his motivation

purely mercenary. Says MIRR planes leaving from U.S. --

close to Tampa.

Says when he gets plane and

pilot, they

are contracted

for three missions -- are American pilots,

since Cuban pilots "don't have the guts."

Although Cuba

has not acknowledged it, MIRR did raid Bahia Honda on

February 13.

3. March 2, 1965 teletype to Washington from Miami

Bosch suspected of sending extortion letter to Julio

Cesar Iglesias.

He desperately needs money for MIRR.

4. CIA Intelligence Info Cable - 29-30 March 1965

TDCS DB 315/01108-65

Source:

Member of Cuban emigree group who provide useful

reports

As of 29 March 1965, MIRR had collected $22,000 in

Puerto Rico and planned

to bomb a

sugar refinery in

Cuba. After rald, MIRR

will hold press conference and

announce formation of a government in arms, possibly

represented by Bosch. Such government to be recognized by

Dominican Republic.

1N 54756 D0010:32246420 Page 22

---

## Page 23

FBI File Review - MIRR... page 13

#97-4474 - Section 4 of 7

Serials 166-224

5.

June 15, 1965 - Radiogram to Director from

Miami

Bosch holds press conference and announces he found

concealed microphone in his office.

Says it was such an

elaborate device it must have been placed

by agency of u.s.

government but did not specify.

Also claimed MIRR responsible for running Cuban vessel

"Aracelio Iglesias" aground on June 11 near Panama canal.

6. July 29, 1965 - Report from Tampa, SA William C. Hay

Jury in Tampa meeting on June 23, 1965

indicted Bosch, Jose Diaz. Morejon, Marcos Rodriguez Ramos

and Gerulio Guiterrez on charges of conspiracy to illegally

export war munitions. Charges against William J. Johnson

and Frank Rafferty were dismissed.

All were arrested by

Customs on June 10, 1965 near Orlando, Florida while

allegedly planning air attack on Cuba.

HH 54756

DocId:32248420

Page 23

---

## Page 24

FBI File Review

June. 1, 1978

PAGE

14

MIRR - continued.

SECTION 5 - #97-4474 - Serials 225-283

1.

Information note dated 8/17/65

Bosch awaiting trial on Customs charge of conspiring to

illegally export arms

following his indictment on 6/23/65.

2.

Miami report 8/20/65 #MM 105-2855

Subject:

MIRR

On July 30, 1965, a Cuban exile reported that some MIRR

members said RECE and MIRR had been meeting to discuss a

cooperative pact.

Participants included Orlando Bosch,

Freyre and Jorge

Mas Canosa.

3. Report to Attorney General from Director, FBI, dated 10/18/65

Orlando Bosch claims MIRR frogmen responsible, for bomb

damage to Spanish vessell "Satrustegui" in San Juan, Puerto

Rico on 10/9/65. Stated MIRR will attack, sabotage, destroy

and sink ships of England and Spain because of their trade

with Cuba.

4. Airtel to SAC, Miami and San Juan from Director, dtd 1/24/65

Indicates that CIA has furnished information that Commandos L

and MIRR are planning raids against Cuba.

5. #97-4474-258 Report from Miami dated 12/17/65

Subject: MIRR

Bosch and Marcelino Garcia Jimenez arrested by FBI on

11/25/65 and charged with extortion and conspiracy to commit

extortion against some fellow Cuban exiles.

Bosch out on

bond and Garcia released on his own recognizance. Informant

information that Bosch planning to sabatoge oil tanker,

"World Sincerity" while the tanker is in Puerto Rico.

SECTION 6 - #97-4474 - Serials 284-354

1. Airtel to Director from SAC, Miami dated 2/28/66

Subject: MIRR (Serial 284)

Informant says Bosch asked him to pilot a plane on a planned

bombing

raid

• over Cuba -- target to be Nuevitas, a sugar

exporting town.

Bosch said he had a wealthy backer.

SAC Miami

1N 54756 10010.32246420 Page 24

---

## Page 25

MIRR - June 1, 1978

Page # 15

suggests it is Jose "Pepin" Bosch because a close confident of

his, Jose Antonio Mulet, had money to pay informant for piloting

services.

(Note: attack did take place and MIRR took credit on

9/29/66).

2. Airgram to Director from Miami, dated 4/22/66

On 4/22/66, U.S. Customs advised Bosch, Jose Antonio Mulet

Gonzalez and another Cuban national arrested by Collier

County Florida Sherrif for possession of bombs and ex-

plosives. (An informant, who was to be the pilot, had kept

FBI informed of a planned

attack on Cuba. FBI worked with

Customs to thwart raid and protect informant.)

3. Memo to J. Walter Yeagley from Director, dated 6/22/66

Subject:

MIRR

Informant says Bosch has 20 men located in various ports in

the United States

under orders to place ezplosives on

vessels trading with Cuba. Also says MIRR planning to

attack a vessel on the high seas.

4. Report from Miami, dated 11/22/66

Subject: MIRR

Bosch claims MIRR responsible for bombing raid of a Cuban

nitroglycerine plant at Matanzas, Cuba.

5. Airgram to Director from Miami, dated 11/29/67

Bosch disrupts Miami rally conducted by Dr. Enrique Huerta

gains entrance to platform and demands to speak and make a

presentation of a plaque to Panamanian Ambassador to OAS.

6. Report from Miami dated 3/22/67

Subject: MIRR - SUMMARY OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA'S

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

March 17, 1961

Bosch

sent boat, "Jolly Roger" on an expedition to Cuba.

When it landed at Pinar del Rio, Cuba, five men went

ashore

and were arrested.

August 15, 1963

Bosch claims it was an MIRR plane which flew over Nico

Lopez oil refinery, dropped two bombs

and returned to base

in Central America.

HH 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 25

---

## Page 26

MIRR File Review

June 1, 1978

Page #16

September 7, 1963

Radio Havana

announced plane bombed Sta. Clara, Cuba;

one person killed, three injured. Bosch claimed credit --

said 6 bombs dropped on sugar mill.

Customs and U.S. Coast Guard sieze two boats

carrying bombs, to be taken to Bimini,

Bahamas for delivery.

Customs sieze plane to be used in bombings two days later.

Bosch said it was to be used in

attack on oil storage tanks

at Nuevitas, Cuba.

July 29, 1964

Customs sieze motor launch near Key West -- returning

from aborted infiltration and supply mission to Cuba.

Bosch

said boat belonged to MIRR.

May 1964

MIRR planned to torpedo Cuban merchant ship. Raid

thwarted by Customs by siezing torpedo.

June 19, 1964

Radio Havana said plane bombed sugar mill at Caibarien,

Cuba and plane shot down. Mission flown for MIRR.

June 19, 1964

Customs sieze plane at Lantana, Florida when Bosch seen

transporting 4 bombs from car to plane.

November 22, 1964

MIRR claimed unsuccessful raid made against stadium in

Cuba where Castro was speaking. U.S. authorities doubt

such a raid occurred.

February 3, 1965

Miami radio station says MIRR bombed a sugar mill in

Cuba.

u.S. says no

evidence

of such a raid.

June 10, 1965

Bosch arrested by Customs in possession of 18 bombs.

on hunger strike.

Acquitted June

2,. 1966.

June 11, 1965

Cuban and Norwegian ship collided near Panama Canal.

Bosch claimed credit.

Informed

sources say claim completely

untrue.

October 9, 1965

Explosion near Spanish ship, Satrustegui in San Juan.

Bosch claimed credit.

HH 54756 DocId: 32248420

Page 26

---

## Page 27

MIRR File Review

June 1, 1978

Page $17

November 25, 1965

Bosch indicted and arrested by FBI on charges of

extortion.. Tried in U.s

• District Court, Miami, in fall

of 1966 and found

not quilty.

March 8, 1966

Bosch and others picketed arrival of British Prince

Phillip when he visited Miami.

April 21, 1966

Bosch

arrested in Naples, Florida for possessing and

transporting explosives.

On November 17, 1966, judge set

aside guilty verdict and ordered a new trial.

September 29, 1966

Radio Havana announced air raid against

Nuevitas, Cuba. Bosch claimed credit.

sugar mill in

November 14, 1966

Radio Havana announced bombing of nitro plant at

Matanzas, Cuba. Bosch claimed credit.

January 15, 1967

Customs arrested

three with airpläne with bombs at

Tamiami Airpot, Miami. Three were working for MIRR.

April 14, 1967

Customs arrest Arthur Gerteite and Barbero Bolan

Garcia at airport in Tifton, Georgia where they were

attempting to fly bombing mission against Cuba. Bombs

confiscated. Bolan arrested, Gerteite considered a co-

conspirator

but not arrested.

7.

Memo to Director from Tampa, dated 5/25/67

MIRR officer in Tampa - Enrique Someillan, Coordinator.

the here cute race on Par

(In memo # 3 of Section 6, it is stated that one of

the MIRR informants for FBI is head of MIRR in Tampa.)

8. Teletype to Director from New York, dated July 6, 1967.

Source says Guillermo Novo of CNM (Cuban Nationalist

Movement) planning an attempt on Castro's life if he appears

at Expo 67 in Canada.

If he does not appear, CNM in union

with Bosch of MIRR will attempt to kidnap Cuban Ambassador

to Canada and hold him in ransom for remaining nine Bay of

Pigs prisoners.

Also forming plans to kidnap Jose Llanusa,

August 8, 1967.

of ports to bene in wehlete, parties atin 21".

1N 54756 DooId:32248420 Page 27

---

## Page 28

FBI File Review - MIRR

June 1, 1978

Page $18

SECTION 7 - #97-4474 - Serials 355-395

Information deals with MIRR/Bosch activities from July 1967

to June 1968 during which time Bosch was involved with the

"Cuban Power Movement"

and sending out messages under the

signature of "Ernesto". His association with the Novo

brothers is also documented. This material is not pertinent

to this investigation, and redundant to the material read in

the Orlando Bosch name file at the FBI, previously reviewed.

1H 54756

DocId: 32248420

Page 28

---

