# docid-32290939

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10215

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-612

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/28/1962

3

LST, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NNW 45966 DocId: 32290939

Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

9/28/62

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1).

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00 : TP)

WEEKLY SUMMARY AIRTEL

On 9/18/62,

PCI (Protect), advised

subject was in the Columbia Restaurant,

Tampa, at 4:55 P.M.

Source advised two unknown white males had been in the

restaurant and upon leaving, one of the men spoke to subject.

Source said that two men got into a 1961 or 1961 bluish

Cadillac bearing 1962 Florida license 6WW-1903.

On 9/20/62, the same source advised subject's

close

associate, JAMES LONGO, had been in the Columbia

Restaurant on day of September 20, alone.

On 9/24/62, Bureau agents observed LONGO arrive

at Columbia Restaurant in the afternoon of 9/24/62, and

and left alone by 2:45 P.M.

On 9/24/62, PCI

as above, advised subject

was observed at 5:05 P.M.,

Columbia Restaurant and

in the company of JAMES LONGO and CASIMIRO B. HERNANDEZ, aka

"Casey"

On 9/25/62, agents of the Tampa Office observed

JAMES C. LONGO alone

in the Columbia Restaurant and on the:

afternoon of same date observed him on a front porch of,

and in contact with, SALVATORE SCAGLIONE, 2301 10th Avenue,

Tampa.

3

Bureau

(EM)

2

' • Houston

REC-60 92-2781-612

2 - Miami

(92-88)

1.3

1

- Tampa

18 OCT 1 1962

SJL:jod

(8)

AIRTEL?

10

Approved:

Sent

er

Special Agent in Charge

C. C: a Wick!

NW 45966 DocId: 32290939 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

Efforts to locate subject in Tampa on 9/25/62

and 9/26/62, through sources and contacts, negative.

On 9/27/62, pretext call made to subject's residence,

and usual answer obtained, that residents would have to be

contacted after 7:00 P.M.

On the same date subject's wife, JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE,

driving white Crysler,

observed to leave residence alone' Impala still in garage,

the same time white Chevrolet

and '1962 Ford usually driven by son-in-law, AUGUST PANTaLLO,

still at residence.

PCI, (Protect), maid at

subject's residence, advised subject not presently at his

residence.

On 9/27/62, ELMIRA HERNANDEZ, Part-owner, Columbia

Restaurant, advised subject has not been around Columbia

and LONGO has been alone for several days

when at Columbia.

On 9/27/62, JACK de la LLANA, Intelligence Unit,

Tampa PD, advised he

had received information in the past,

to which

he had not attached any significance, and he

did not know if there was any significance to

was to the effect that the Chief Criminal Deputy Sheriff,

LLOYD FRAZIER, at Houston, Texas, had been making inquiries

nut to c

same, but it

of Tampa PD as to the subject, and de la LLANA stated

that subject had been reportedly seen or connected with

was making general

subject's activities. De la LLANA stated he forwarded

photograph and background concerning subject to the Sheriff's

Office, at Houston, Texas.

On 9/27/62, the Miami Office advised subject had

been located in Miami.

OTHER 4

-2 -

NN 45966 DocId: 32290939 Page 3

---

