# docid-32319993

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10372-10325

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-302

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: ALL OFFICES

TITLE:

DATE :

06/19/1997

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LETTER

V9.1

DocId: 32319993

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act/of 1992 (44 USC Y2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE 07/10/1997

Date: 06/19/1997

To:

All Field Offices

All Legats

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 6362

Contact: Yvonne Brewer, Ext. 9238

Approved By: Keeley Carol All

Drafted By: Keeley Carol

Case ID #: 62-H0-102920-302

(Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The JFK Task Force (JFKTF) requests all offices and

legats to search for records and forward records to the JEKTF.

Enclosures:

Copy of the letter received from the Assassination

Records Review Board (the Board).

Details: In 1992, Congress signed the Act mandating federal

agencies to release all documents concerning the presidential

assassination or information related by conspiracy theory to the

assassination.

The Act narrowly defined the types of information

that agencies could still protect by postponement until the year

2017. The Act also established the Board as a separate

entity to

oversee the release of material from the federal agencies to the

National Archives and Records Administration (NARA).

Beyond the

Board's oversight responsibilities, the Act charged the Board

with the duties of reviewing agencies' proposed postponements

with the agencies' evidence for approval or denial and

researching additional areas of information for new material

related to the assassination. I The FBI has been working with the

Board since its inception to meet the requirements of the Act.

On November 29, 1996, the Board wrote a letter to the

FBI setting forth a formal compliance program.

requested

the FBI's cooperation with the Board "in discharging its

responsibility of assuring Congress and the American people that

the goals of the JFK Act will be accomplished to the greatest

reasonable extent."

The compliance program is the Board's answer

to demonstrating "to the American public that a thorough, good-

faith, and diligent effort have been made to locate and release

all remaining assassination-related records within the control of

the United States Government (and that the Government is not

hiding any such materials from public disclosure)." With this

philosophy in mind, the Board has forwarded letters to the FBI

requesting additional information for their review and possible

DocId: 32319993 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

To: All Field Office

From: Office of Public

Congressional

Affairs

Re:

62-HQ-1029205, 06/19/1997

inclusion in the JFK collection.

On June 18, 1997, the JEKTF received a letter from the

Board requesting all files

and documents for Judith Campbell

DExner, a.k.a. Judith Immoor, Judith Campbell, Judith Eileer Vor

Immoor, Judy Campbell, and Judy Exner.

Ms. Campbell was born in

the state of New York with a possible birth year of 1934.

Each

office and legat should search all their systems (general

indices, confidential indices, ELSURS, etc.) for all information

(main files, see references, ELSUR logs, etc.) related to

Ms. Campbell. The original documents should be transferred to the

JEKTE at FBIHQ by JuLy 10, 1997.

The original documents are necessary to meet the

requirements of the Act.

Should the Board determine the

documents to be assassination records the originals will

eventually be transferred to NARA.

Therefore, any responsive

documents should be copied before

forwarding to the JFKTE.

If

the Board decides that the documents do not fall within the realm

of the Act, the documents will be returned to your office, but

not until the Board completes this project.

All offices and legats should respond even if the

search is negative.

The response is important for the FBI's

compliance with the Act. If you have any questions, please

contact Yvonne Brewer at extension 9238 or Carol Keeley on

extension 9494.

2

DocId: 32319993

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

'To: All Field Office

From: Office of Public

Affairs

Re :

62-HQ-1029205, 06/19/1997

Congressional

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

ALL RECEIVING OFFICES

Each office and legat 1s, requested, to searcha

indices lie. general indices, confidentia indices

lichein

ELSUR, etc.)

or all files and references to Judith Campbell Ener. The

original documents should be forwarded to the JFKTE, FBIHQ, Attn.

Yvonne Brewer, Room 6362 by 7/10/1997.

1 - OPCA Front Office, Rm. 7240

1 - Ms. Brewer, Rm. 6362

1 - Ms. Wilkins, Rm. 6362

1 - Ms.

Keeley,

RM.

6362

3

DocId: 32319993

Page

---

