# docid-32336969

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90136-10012

RECORD SERIES: - HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-70973-1

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: HAV

TITLE:

DATE: 07/02/1958

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32336969 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONSINTIAN

Legal Attache, Havana (105-395)

10k

Director, FBI

REC: 17205-709731-1

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN

IS - CUBA

"July 22

1958

Re

COMMEEB!

LEGAT

Tolson

Boardman

Belmont

Mohr

Nease

'Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

clayton

rele Room JUL 1 0-1058

•Holloman,

Gandy Lit

I. 'MAIL ROOM

Reurlet 6-20-58,

copies of which were

furnished Miomi.

Inclosed for your information

are two copies of an artiole that appeared in the

4-3-58 issue of "The New York Times."

One copy

of this article is enclosed for Miami. (ens

Havana is authorized to furnish one

copy of this article to Lieutenant Vile as a matter

of cooperation.

Enclosures 2

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON-FCIM II

4. 2

1 = Altant (Enclosure)

DATE OF REVIEWA

Dett

- 80

=1 = Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

19615

NOTE:

On: 6-17-58 Lieutenant tila of cuban Army Military

Intelligence Service advised he read

an article

in a Miami,

Florida, Spanish-länguage newspaper, 6-15-58 edition, stating

that the subject, an American, was a member of the

insurrectionary forces of Fidel Castro and fighting against the

Batista Government. It. Vila stated that the Cuban military

authorities were interested in obtaining any background data

available and stated he would appreciate any assistance the

Havana suggested

that Miami be requested to make inquiry concerning the subject's

The attached article contains

information concerning one William A. Morgan, who appears to be

identical with the subject.

There appears to be no objection

to furnishing

this

public source data to. the Cuban milttary

authorities.

DECLASSIFIED ASP&MACI

08 10/22

174 54462

DocId

•32

69

Page 2

---

