# docid-32333136

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USG 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90104-10434

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-355

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 03/22/1962

'PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

- COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32333136

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Nöte).

¿DATE:. 17-143 72-27

(12-28-60)

LOPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECREL

Beber

JUNE

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-2940" )

DATE:

3/22/62

(IFK) 3/12/98

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226 Sub 2)

CLASSIRIED BY 5668 SLO/GL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X C(6)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

0

RE: Title

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka.

46311326

Classifier

vegassily ens BADR,

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Pittsburgh

Symbol Number

PG 622-C*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

MicrophoneY Microphone (MUTT

CONF. INFT.

installation)

1.

Name

SEBASTIAN ON organization on whom surveillance placed:

JOHN LA

ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.)

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The

Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

tion of monitoring plant

• Pittsburgh FBI O-fice

450 Union Trust Building, Fifth

Avenue and Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization:

1/26/61

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places);

No other installations

*ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

ST-108 HERETH IS DOLISTRIED

EXCE: ALSRE SHOWN

OTHELWISE

6.

If installation is a

technical surveillance,

answer following questions:

(There talato teur involved In this installation) 13=2940-355

a. Is a trunk, line utilized?

REE 48

Do Is the surrelilance on a suitshtr

13 MAR 27 1962

10660:

c. Is theysurveillance lor

public coin operated teleptions

Bureau

1- Pittsburgh

5 9/

ROC

SECRED

(2)

DocId: 32333136 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 210) note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-226 Sub 2

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

10. Whafe abert teenation have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relating to the North

12.

secure act a vince installation!

Has security factor

No change.

13. agency feet for the surveillance by outside agency laire samo, titio and

No requests made.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None costs included in

office rental)

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

One misur (PG 148-S*, installed on 4/16/57) anditwo

units of another misur (PG 177-S*)

-s,

installed on 1/8/62)47

-2 -

SECRET

DocId: 32333136 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: .11-14-2017

PG 92-226 Sub 2

SECRET

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

Not applicable

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

$9.31

16.

Personnel Costs:

Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

Employee is able to perform regular duties as applicant correlator.

Total number of man hours per week spent at plant? (See supplemental

page 3a)

81 hours

c. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

61 hours or approximately seventy-five per cent of total

time spent monitoring both units.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

GS -9:

Approximately $5,569

GS-12: Approximately $7,106

17.

A great deal of potential has been demonstrated by this informant

and information received on a

daily basis is being utilized

continually by those Agents assigned to the Criminal Intelligence

Program in the Pittsburgh Office. Financial developments relating

to the North Star Cement Block Company assume prime importance

when it is realized that LA ROCCA has been designated as the prime

target subject of an intensification program looking toward early

prosecution on any Federal violation. LA ROCCA and the supervisory

employees of North Star have spoken freely enough for this informant

to ascertain their reactions to investigations being conducted by

both the Internal Revenue Service and the FBI at Pittsburgh. (See

supplemental page 3a)

- 3-

SECRET

DocId: 32333136 Page 4

---

