# docid-32338946

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/13/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90143-10364

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-370750-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

03/04/1942

' PAGES:

29

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

DocId: 32338916

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CONFIDEN UA

FEDERAL BUREAU

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

LOS ANGULLES CALIFOANIA

HERE SOFICA INON

6 UNCLASSIFIN

EXCEPTIHERE SHOWS

OTHERHIS

FILE NO. 100-6769

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANG WIE, O/LIFORNIA

TITLE

JOHN HOWARDY

LARSON

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

2.23

Declassi

DATE WHEN MADE

3/1/42

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

+ 27-2/26/162

REPORT MADE BY

So Be VICARS

CHARACTER OF CASE

45 50c0o

INTERNAL SICURITY - R

Declassity en: Y

4-14-3

SPLOTLY CONTUAL 259416

JUNA VAlu, former connist Party functlonery, Los

Angoles, identified KATHRYN BURNS as fornor novie

Present whereabaut unknown.

VALE unble

to turica current information on subleats

DISHONE OF LANCON.

MABERAK'S actititlas on

[u]

boheld of hussian Vice-sonous arranging reception

described

Rocoption finally postponeds

BIBRAXtE noquaintance with Califoria reprocontative

ME DINAUISTA rocoverode BIBSLIN attenptod to

rocrult mambers California state lard and wa ths

driding foroo bahind fusatan lar Roller effort to

persuade MAXDI LITVINDY to nopons at nasa rally in

Los Angeles 800n.

Subject lAnsoN pronontly angaged

in writing story.

Hos acrised Intonuont he is not

angaged at presant in ury clulian dorense uetivity

but 1e anniona to partlotpato.

Nootings at LAmONg

house noted and Identities thodo in actendance

regaribode

OLE EJNORACARD, hosteca at fuselan

31l, Los Angelos, and very antive Homonte

Abulanca Darinae

Corpse

VR

Le 1991

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SFECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

370750 tae

CONDITI

5 Sureau

2 New Yorks

2 Los Angeles

100-

Or. THIS REPORT

# rio: 40548625

-OT LECORDED

22

AUG 2 1950.

CARO

ESTERINCE:

Roport of Spacial Agent J. R. Vicaro, January 21,

1942,

Loo

Angeles

ORIGINAL

U. 8. GOY IRNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

7--2034

DocId: 32338946

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:' 11-14-2017

since broken relations with the Ruosion Nar Melief Aacoolation.

BRAD further advinod BIBElAt thot aho hnd had a vary Litercoting

necting laot right and that the Commander of the Anorioon Logion,

whos the doperibed as "Ily old pol" wanted to have lunch with her us

soon do sho got ovor her 1lnaas; MBROIN expressed great

anthusinon about this and stated that ho me vory soclaced that

ovarything wo going fine and added thas the most inportant thing

to de

as present was to push forth with the nesting @(V)

()(C)

Enis notine, khich la deseribed in this con-

15 a mass feeting which the lofel. le contospiating as

the clinar to lte drive for fundo, according to Teaporary

Confidonthat Matlonal Dolence Intorant li. A. A5g

Because of tho

Limitation on crowdo set by Cenarud DeRinT of the Fourth Intor

captor domand, 1t an not arabable that a lorge mons rolly will ba

hold, accoming to to thomant

Cronde procently art latted

to fivo thousnnd poreons.

This Intorant advised that arrangonento

were prosently under wey to secure DoRotHy THOMPcON; noted columint

as the main oposkos at this rally, and further it hag boen

propocod that instead of one large mas rally that a corion of

millios bo hold at different places on the sane evoning with

THOMPSON and othars not you desided upon,

to be transportod from

meeting so nueting for brief apporancos.

In thie way tho

Lunloation upon croado would be solvede

spot checka

too Hussian Consulabe during the evening of

Wednesdry, January 28, 1942 bat failed to discover ony raception In

progreas there.

Furtheraore, Confidantlal National Dalenge

Intormat t*, #ody chocked the various projoction reone of the

mocion ploture conpantes, more the consuiate had previously hale

primto

shorings of tilas, with nogative zarulto.

fact that Jars NEXD'advinod Bonbant that ohe wan 111 with tho

monelos on the date planned for the reception snd the foot that the

1"ho Carl Fron Leningrad" was determined by BIBSIMAN and MEN

to be one wilch

would be dotrinanton to the causo roricot that thia

recoption epperectly mus not hald

However, Fesporary Sonfidentsal

Matlonal Lefonoo Inforoant File

adviscd that he persenally hud

bour present in shore we any reception, bis that homould

astonpt to socertoin any lotoraction available concoring 1t. o

On January 30, 1348, KADELINE LAVaN, whoat

activilios havo been described in praviou, roporto as a antimate

nasociato of DIsroAt mado an' appointmnt with BIBSIAN for 2:45 P,.

INTIAL

DocId: 32338946

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

• DATE: 11-14-2017

LUnk

BRENTAL

Guard:

HERBERT advised OFYNER Shed he was alno going to try and

roomit Chance suuke (phonede).

Attendin 1s invited to the fact

that rooruitine poone into the Any or nation detence undos

prosently one of the prina objectiven of the Comunist Party.

Confidential Macional Defence Informant I A•

#1356 has adviaed

that tuning a rosent anction mootlag of the

Communist Party hold In bon Angeles, a etrong and poromaive talk was

made by JING VALLAOS, Los Angoles County Socretary of tho Connist

Party, encouroging all me could to entist in the United Statoe Amy

i actor dies cat nees 510 200-1763)

von isential National Detonse Intorant

LA. $78, the bank account of Subjeat BIBERMAN at the California: Bank,

fiollywood and Vine Dranch, was checkod.

Interesting liens which

my be of value in futuro investigativo nobivity la thie ome aro

baảng sat ou

Choaks drawn m

Jonuary 12,

1942

(Endorsed by CHAMES

Januany 23, 1942

€6.00

SCHLOIN)

VIC SHAPIRO and Staff

(detorst Agent)

134-27

Jenuary 29,

1942

PANG TRIVERS

(Doposited California Bank, Hollyucon md Vino)

January 23, 1942

Ddled Tritora! Fund

(Anadgeted Bars, Hew York)

Februory 2, 7942

Pooples* Horld

(Dank of Adoriea, Son Franoiaso)

February 13, 1942

• Monon'& Anbid ance and Defense

Corpo

300.00

10,00

6.00

344009

Depo its -

Docesber

20,

1941

Dos osiber

29, 1941

(90-122)

from Paranount Studios)

Balanco - January 25, 1942

626,03

372.93

2,934049

SE

-2 5-

90000 4

CONFADENTIAL

in d0143- 10384

DocId: 32338946 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released inter the foun

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination

Recorty

Collection dot of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

4.0

PREL

Texporary

• Confidential. National Defenso Informant

Lo A 13 10 WALTER TErEN, shoe Idontity has predoudly been made

Bureaul.

Dexporszy Confidont In National Dofense Informant

15 1u ROBINT HI. BOILA, Acelatant Vice rondent, Union Baras

ond trust Compary:

Los Angeles, end Tronouror of the Ansion

Holof Association of Southern Cilifornin, Inborporate

Confidential Motionnl Defense Infornat

01356 1o ALBERt

RAts Bloat, whose idontity in boin

: 1010rт

by separate sal confidentiad memorindun to the Bureau.

All other confidentáat Mational Dofersa

Into I006

designated by lotter Instoad of nuneral. in this ronort, are

SATIAL

TR:F

-29-

ding-saus

DocId: 32338946

Page 5

---

