# docid-32290637

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10413

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-247

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, NO

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/21/1961

1

CM, ASSOC, ILLEGAL ENTRY, US, DEPORTATION,

GUATEMALA, INS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45855 DocId: 32290637 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

11-21-61

Airtel

son

lahan

rad

joach

van

°Room

TO: SAC, New Orleans

From: Director, FBI

CARLOS MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

of.?

Re your airtel 11/17/61 captioned "Criminal Intelligence

Program, New Orleans Division, Weekly Surmarv." In referenced

airtel you advised that PCI

has received

information in the form of an unconfirmed rumor that Marcello

returned to the United States after deportation to Guatemala

in a shrimp boat operated by Felix Golina, Patterson, Louisiana.

You should maintain close contact with your informant

in an effort to develop further information concerning this.

By return airtel advise the Bureau the results of

the file review in your office for Felix Golina, Patterson,

Louisiana, and state whether or not there is any indication

he has had

previous contacts or been in association with

Marcello.

You should insure that if additional information is

developed INS is informed locally since this data is of

extreme interest to that agency.

Bureau informed of further developments.

In addition, keep the

dni

NOTE: Above information

furnished to the Bureau by New Orleans.

has been the subject of memorandum for the Director and a

letter to the Attorney General.

This airtel is submitted to

insure New Orleans remains alert for additional developments.

TLG: asg

(4)

REC- 4

92-

2713-

247

MAILED 19

NOV 21 1961

COMM-FIBI

16

STIC

AS NOV 22 1961

MAIL ROOM E

51 NOV 2 9 1961

45855 DocId: 32290637 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

