# docid-32305791

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10421

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2410, 2411, 2412

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

FBI

BENDER, ROBERT L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 45839 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

DATE: 08/26/1968

'PAGES:

67

SUBJECTS :

LCN, LEADERSHIP, PROSECUTIVE ACT, LCN MEMBERS

AND ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, CONSPIRATORIAL ASPECTS,

BKG, PERTINENT ACT SUSPECTED MEMBERS, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INC 2 RPT

N9.1

HH 45839

DocId: 32305791

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-1173

INFONIANTS

Source

CG T-1

OM 148 - CTE

(deceased)

CG T-2

CG 6968-CTE

Dates Contacted

9/25-27/67

CG T-3

CG

6690-CTL

CG T-4

CG

7211-P0

Various dates

from

9/25/67-8/19/68

10/20/67

Various dates

12/1/67-8/6/58

from

CG I-5

CG

6933-CTE

Various dates

from

9/25/67-8/19768

CG T-6

CG

6588-CTE

CG

I-7

CG 7045-PC

CG

7-8

CG 6241-C

CG T-9

CG 7089-PC

CG T-10

CG 6884-CTB

CG T-11

KC. 586-CTE

(deceased)

CG I-12

SD 1046-CTE

Various dates iron

9/25/67-8/17169

5/29/68

8/9/68

8/6/68

Various

dates from

9/25/67-1/4/68

Various dates from

11/24/67-12/23/67

Various

dates

10/12/67-4/15/68

from

C

-

74 45839 DocТd:32305791

Page 2

Agent Contacting

SA JOHN R. ANDERSON

SA MERLE B. HAMRE

SA LENARD A. WOLF

SA MAX R. FRITSCHEL

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS

SA MERLE B. HAMRE

SA JOIN W. ROBERTS

SA JAMES D. DEMEIRST

SA JAMES D. DENHIRST

SA JAMES D. DEWHIRST

SA WALTER E. PETERS

SA ROY I. TUSSEY

---

## Page 3

CG 92-1173

INFORMANES

Source

CG T-13

MI

623-CTE

Dates Contacted

Various dates from

11/17/67-7/9/68

Agent Contacting

SA DANIEL E. BRANDT

SA CARLYLE N. REED

CG T-14

CG 6443-C*

- D%

COVER-PAGE

74 45839

DocId: 32305791

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FX.26

"Tev. 6+17-65)

₫.339 Br

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

ST. LOUIS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

8/26/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/12/67 - 8/21/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA ROBERT L. BENDER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

pjh

LA COSA NOSTRA

ST LOUIS DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCE:

Buairtel to NY,

7/24/68,

and

Report of SA ROBERT L.

BENDER, 9/12/670

STATUS:

LEADS:

- RUC -

THE CHICAGO, KANSAS CITY and LAS VEGAS DIVISIONS:

Information copies are being sent to the above

offices because of the association between members of the

ICN in SLMO and members of "Families" in those divisions.

INFORMANTS:

Case has been:

Pending over or

year

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SL I-1 is former SL 1249-C*.

SL T-2 is KC 586-C-TE.

CACCOMPLISHMENT - NONE

03K1

Yes

I No; Pending prosecution over sixtmonths → Yes

PEN CALARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-24410 IREC21

1

-

-

-

Bureau (92-6054)

Chicago. (92-1173)

(Info)

Kansas City (92-883) (Info)

Las Vegas (Info)

New York (92-2300)

Springfield (Info)

2e:

0i+

St. Louis (92-774)

17 AUG 29 1968

EX-100

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

/co

Urgani

Magrite

Division,

Notations

NONE

Legit

STAY! SECT,

SEPTI 1968

NW 45839 DocId: 32305791

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SL

92-774 I5

SL T-3 is SL 1239-C-TE.

SL T-4 is SL 1278-C-TE.

SL T-5 is SD 1064-C-TE.

SL T-6 is former DE 1176-PC.

SL T-T is SL 1344-C-Te.

SL I-8 is SL 1216-C-TE.

SL T-9 is SL 1393-PC.

SL T-10 is former LV 203-C-TE.

SL. T-11 is former OM 148-C-TE.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

.. :

The investigative period reflected in this report

covers the period from the date of the submission of the last

report in this matter.

- Вы .

COVER PAGE

NH 45839

DooId: 32305791

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PD-263 #R

133-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFiCE

NEW HAVEN

A TITLE OF CASE

OLA COSA NOSTRA

OFFICE.OF ORIGIN

NEW. HAVEN

DATE

8/28/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/25/68 - 8/26/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM F. GLOSSA

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED, BY

jmf

REFERENCES:

Report of SA WILLIAM F. GLOSSA dated 9/12/67, at New

Haven;

Bureau airtel to New York, copy to New Haven; 7/24/68.

-p-

INFORMANTS :

NH

NH

N

H

N

NH

T-1

T ÷2

1-3

T-4

T-5

T-6

is NK 2461-C*.

is

• NY. 3461-C-TE

is

NY 3864-C-TE

is

NY 3864-C-TE

is NY5042

-C-TE.

is NY 5526-C-TE.

CON VIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

CASE H'AS BEEN:.

RECOVERIES

APPROVED

SPECIAL

AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES-MADE:

3

2

Bureau (92-6054)

New York

(92-2300)

2 - New Haven (92-282)

ACQUIT-

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

EX YES DINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-24123E48

17 SEP 3 1968

Dissemination Record of Attachéd Report

"pi.

Agency

Request Recd.

/cr.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

So ion, Room,

B 51 00T- 1(1968

NW 45839

DooId: 32305791

Craniat Diviion

inchcluerlug

ve

Page 6

Notations

NISE

STAC

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 19670-273-877

---

## Page 7

FD-204 (Rev:, 3-3-59)

UNI

_D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JL

_ ПСЕ

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

SA WILLIAM F. GLOSSA

August 28, 1968

NH 92-282

LA COSA NOSTRA

Ofice:

NEW HAVEN

Bureau File #: 92-6054

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

Synopsis:

Nine individuals residing in Conn., have been

identified as La Cosa Nostra (LCN)

members.

Seven

individuals are listed as probable or suspected

ICN members.

The New Jersey DE CAVALCANTE "Family"

has the greatest representation in Connecticut,

with three known

members of which one is characterized

as a "Caporegima" and another as "Underboss." There

are also two suspected members in this "family." The

New York GAMBINO "Family" is next with three known

members. The remaining

known members belong to the

New York GENOVESE or COLUMBO "families" with the

"family" relationship of some suspected members not

established. The existence of a "Connecticut

'Family'" has not been verified and appears unlikely.

RALPH TROPIANO, COLUMBO "Family"

, indicted by

Federal Grand Jury, New Haven, in March, 1968,

connection with refuse removal business in conn.

ICN members

along with other hoodlum gamblers in the Hartford,

Conn., area, subpoenaed during June, 1968, before

a Federal Grand Jury, Hartford,

in gambling and

shylocking probe.

USA, Hartford, plans continuance

of these Grand Jury hearings.

JEK Law 10(a)2

-₽-

DETAILS:

92-6054-2412

This document contans

neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1 967-0-273-878

NW 45839 DooId: 32305791 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NH 92-282

Also suspected of being an ICN member of the

GENOVESE "Family" is VITO SABIA, also known as 'BILLY WEST"

of Stamford, Connecticut.

"Family" association of the other

suspected ICN members has not been established.

PROSECUTIVE ACTIVITY CONCERNING ICN

MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES

In March of 1968, RALPH TROPIANO of the COLUMBO

"Family" was indicted by a

Federal. Grand Jury in New Haver

Connecticut, for violation of Title 18, United States Code,

Section 1951. TROPIANO has been released on $100,000 bond,

and is awaiting trial which is

scheduled to commence in

the fall, 1968, term of court.

TROPIANO is charged with

extortion in connection with his activities in the refuse

removal business in Connecticut.

TROPIANO and a close

associate, WILLIAM GRASSO, had established a refuse removal

business,

and in connection therewith, were in competition

with other refuse removal dealers.

They

are specifically.

charged with threatening other refuse dealers for taking

"stops" away from

them.

JEK Law 10(a)2

In June of 1968, United States Attorney JON O.

NEWMAN, Hartford, Connecticut, presented testimony to a

Federal Grand Jury in Hartford, relative to gambling and

loan-shark operations. Subpoenaed for this Grand Jury were

and

also known as

from

Also subpoenaed for this Grand Jury

were a number of known gamblers, in the Hartford, area.

The "Hartford Times" a daily newspaper having

wide circulation in Connecticut, on June 25,

1968, reportec

the following information concerning the Grand Jury probe.

"Gaming Probers Hear 'Big Nose'

"Salvatore L. Cufari, otherwise known as

'Big Nose Sam' and reputed Mafia overseer

of a huge New

England crime syndicate,

testified before a federal grand jury today

in Hartford.

...*

"U. S. Attorney Jon O. Newman called the

jurors into session Monday to delve into inter-

state gambling and loan sharking, although he

remained mum about the whole proceeding.

92-6054-2412

-5-

HH

45839 DooId:32305791 Page 8

---

## Page 9

NH 92-282

JOSEPH

GUERR IERO

GUERRIERO, better known as "PIPPY" is suspected

of being a member of the DE CAVALCANTE "Family" in New

This suspicion is founded on his close association

with FRANK CARBONE, a known member of this "family" and

the fact that GUERRIERO's car has been observed at meetings

of the DE CAVALCANTE "Family" in

New Jersey.

GUERRIERO has been reliably reported as an

equal partner in a policy operation, with DANNY TEDESCO,

previously described as a protection man for CARBONE.

The policy operation is centered in Hartford and New

Britain, Connecticut, which is a suburb of Hartford.

GUERRIERO is known to have the exclusive Negro

numbers action in New Britain. JEK Law 10(a)2

was subpoenaed before the Federal Grand

Jury in June of 1968, and invoked the Fifth Amendment

relative to his gambling activities.

ANTHONYILA SELVA

ANTHONY LA SELVA, a brother of JOSEPH who is a

known member and "Underboss" Of the DE CAVALCANTE Family",

operates the General Automatic Transmission Company in

Waterbury with JOSEPH.

Because of his close association

with his brother, JOSEPH, he is suspected as being a member

car being observed

at a meeting of the DE CAVALCANTE "Family" in New Jersey.

DAVID TACOVETTI

IACOVETTI, identified by NH T-3 as a member

of the CARLO GAMBINO "Family" in New Jersey, resides in

Trumbull, Connecticut.

IACOVETTI operates

several

drive in type restaurants in Connecticut, and is believed

to be part owner of several night-club type restaurants

in New

York City.

has in the

past traveled to Haiti, the Dominican Republic,

Ner to say a bas pet seat.

PR - ELa- Pa

-12-

92-6054-2412

HH

45839 DooId:32305791

Page 9

---

## Page 10

NH 92-282

GIROLOMOT SANTUCC IO

SANTUCCIO was identified by JOSEPH VALACHI

in testimony before a Senate Investigating Committee as

a member of the GENOVESE "Family" of New York City.

he currently resides in Hartford, Connecticut

although originally from New York.

He has arrest record

dating back to 1916, which Includes arrests from felonious

assault to homicide

with a shotgun.

he ceased his trips

to New York City in 1962, after VALACHI's testimony that

he had killed a number of hoodlums in New York City

during the Prohibition Era.

His past known associates include TONY BENDER,

VITO GENOVESE, THOMAS EBOLI, CHARLES "LUCKEY" LUCIANO,

CARLO GAMB INQ

and JOSEPH VALACHI.

to appear before a Hederal Grand Jury

probing

IGNAZIO CARL MARCHES,

JEK Law 10(a)2

NH T-6 reported that MARCHESE, known as "O K BENNY"

Is a member of either GENOVESE or the COLUMBO "Family pe

Born in Italy,

he came to the United States where he was

naturalized in 1944.

He has no gainful employment but is

known to travel frequently to New York City from his

home in Ansonia Connecticut:

Reliable

sources have reported that he purchases

cheap merchandise in New York City, and sells these items

from his car in the Ansonia, Connecticut, area. He is also

known to pick up pornographic film in New York, which he

sells

and rents in the New Haven area.

He is reported to have been a member of the old

"IODINE" gang in New

York City, which gang was active in

hijacking, and he has as known associates suspected ICN

members PAUL AGRESTA of Bridgeport, and NICK PATTI of

Ansonia, Connecticut.

-16 -

92-6054-2412

i-1ada8

HH

45839 DooId:32305791 Page 10

---

