# docid-32327785

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90066-10026

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-35376-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE :

DATE: 02/06/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

STEWART OGILVIE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327785

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Ngs..ri.s. 38/9/2

AIRTEL TO SACS, NY, WEO

RE: . STUART S. OGILVIE, ET AL.

29-35376

If the bank examining agency has no record of

irregularity, WO terminate its inquiry and incorporate results

of all inquiry, including that conducted by New York, into a

LHM suitable for dissemination and furnish to Bureau

with

information copy designated for New York.

In preparing this Ikl

insure the contents are paraphrased sufficiently to conceal

identity of the source and onit any mention of Rockhill Lodge

and Resort Corporation, inasmuch as to do so would compromise

the source.

New York insure results of its inquiry in this matter

are immediately furnished to WFO so that Lil, if required, will

be all inclusive.

This matter is to be afforded preferred attention and

the Bureau is to be kept currently advised of all significant

developments.

NOTE:

NY 3936-C has furnished information to the effect that John

Gleason, son of Teddy Gleason, President,

International Longshoremen's

Assoriation (ILA) controls a large percentage of ILA welfare fund premiums

through GBM Brokerage Corporation, New York City, and that substantial

amounts of these premiums are deposited in First

Washington, D. C.

Source alleges that Stuart Ogilvie, Senior Vice=

President,

First Natdona] Bank, is a contact of John Gleason and by having

these ILA

welfare fund premiums on deposit Gleason obtained loans from

First National Bank through Ogilvie and Ogilvie allegedly received a

commission on each loan he approved. Source cited as an example a $500,000

loan allegedly obtained by Rockhill Lodge and Resort Corporation through

Ogilvie and alleged that Ogilvie received a fee for this loan. It was

source's understanding that bank examiners recently reviewed loans of First

National Bank and found that loans issued by Ogilvie were not in accordance

with good practice and as a result of this examination the officials of

Rockhill were pressed for payment of this loan.

Source is not involved

in the payoff by Rockhill to Ogilvie, but learned of the Rockhill loan

when he was asked to assist in obtaining money from another source to

repay the loan at First National Bank. It is believed that contact can

be made with appropriate bank examining agency covering First National

Bank to determine if recent bank examination disclosed irregularities at

this bank and, if so, open investigation can proceed without compromising

the source.

• 2 i

DocId: 32327785 Page 2

---

