# docid-32244522

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HSCA

180-10071-10080

NUMBERED FILES

005119

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

DALZELL, WILLIAM

DATE: 01/26/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ARCADIA SMITH, SERGIO

MARCUSO, JACK

CHILTENDON, ALFRED

DALZELL, WILLIAM, INTERVIEW

BANISTER, GUY

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/16/1996

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS: Box 107.

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32244522

Page 1

Date:

9/30/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

05-30-2017

---

## Page 2

Routing slip 005119

NO.

096111

DATE 2/7/18

Document 1.D. Investigators Interview Schedule

interes

INDEX

COPY TO

Robert Blake

Lalneel, Um

ary Cornwel

Kenneth Klein

70C

Charlie Mathews

Jim Wolf

Binnister;

Donovan Gay

Jackie Hess

littendon Alted Cliff Benton

Tith circadia Team #2

Special Instructions:

Team #4

Team#5

Form #2

53080

DooId: 32244522

Page 2

---

## Page 3

095110

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

Name Willian MAlzell

Address 628 St Charlisi Une

city/state ken orleans, Ja

Date of Birth 12- 4 - 26

social security 433-3406-52

Date 1-26-78

Place Notel Laddy

Telephone 525-3372/3/8

MOI S

ilis

Spouse.

Children

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic GIoup

Color Eyes_

Hair

Socian (lines)

Special Characteristics •

Many onli

3.

4.

Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Laterette Notil

Address

628 St Chares Cre, Mio, La

relephone 525-3372

b. Criminal Record

I. Arrests

2. Convictions

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

Address_

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investisator iliams Drun

Date /-26-78

HH 53080 DocId:32244522 Page 3

---

## Page 4

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME William Dalzell

Address_ 628 St. Charles Avenue

New Orleans, Louisiana

Date 1/26/78

Time

Place His place of residence and

employment

Interview:

Mr. Dalzell has previously been interviewed by y.J.

Delsa and Bob Buras:

However, I reinterviewed him again briefly. He

states that before the Bay of Pigs he was employed as a private

investigator for a firm under the name. of Jack Martin, Neubrugh

and Dalzell. They did a lot of routine private investigator

work such as divorce cases and things of that nature.

He further states that he started an organization called

the FDC (Friends of Democratic Cuba) and

that Guy Banister

was asked. to be on their Board of Directors along with an .

Alfred, the last name is spelled, Chittendon, and the reason

for this was that he wanted to make sure that any monies col-

lected were put to their proper use. He said he used to visit

a restaurant, Jack Mancuso, and a bar and grill known as the

Katzenjammer, along with Guy Banister.

He also stated that Mr. K, who had an office in the

Masonic building and who identified himself as a CIA agent,

asked him to furnish information relative to any Cuban com-

munication systems that he was able to uncover.

He said that

on occasion the end building,

(Signature)

William Brown, Staff Investigator

(Name)

Date Transcribed

•-2/2/78:

bymcp

(Ini

HW 53080

DocId: 32214522 Page

---

## Page 5

William Dalzell Interview

Page 2.

couldn't remember the office, but he felt that it was above

the offices of the FBI and he did give this Mr. K certain in-

formation that he obtained.

He said that he left New Orleans some time in 1962

or 1963 before the assassination. He also stated that there

was considerable activity in the area around the Balter Building

and 544 Camp Street but he couldn't identify any offices-office

that was the center of this activity.

He knew Arcacha Smith as his office was over the FDC

office at the Walther Building. He was shown photographs and he

identified the following photographs by numbers: 5, 7, 13, 16,

23, 26, (24 was a possible), 8, states he has seen him in the

area

but doesn't know him.

With regard to Carlos Bringuier, he said Carlos helped

them to obtain blood and clothing. For further information, the

memo submitted by Delsa and Buras should be reviewed.

53080

DooId:32244522

Page

5

---

