# docid-32145219

## Page 1

8/25/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Back to Brief Results Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10076-10049

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 44-24016-1063

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM :

SAC, SF

TO :

DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: (No Title]

DATE

: 01/30/1964

PAGES

: 4

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

JR, BROMBERG, WALTER DR.,

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/12/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

:INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

: ATT IS LHM

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

Exit JFK

1/2

---

## Page 2

HW 53932

17.12-13-55).

FBI.

Date:

1/30/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Мт.

Conrad

Мг.

DeLoach

Mr.

Evans

Sir.

Gals.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan

Air.

Tavel

Mr.

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holms

Miss Gandy.

-

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (44-24016)

FROM : SAC SAN ERANCISCO (44-494)

SUBJECT:

JACK L.

RUBY, aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM (DECEASED)

CR

(00: Dallas)

DEFENSE ASSOCIATE FOR THE RUBY TRIAL

• 3/1193

9803 RANGAT

Enclosed herewith is a LHM setting out the information

contained in San Francisco file 100-33976, Bufile 100-379424,

concerning BROMBERG.

Investigation has never placed BROMBERG in Communist

Party membership.

U. S. Attorney CECIL F. POOLE, San Francisco, advised

SAC CURTIS 0. LYNUM on 1/29/64 that a Dr. WALTER BROMBERG had

been listed in the newspapers as one of the psychiatrists who

have been used by the defense in connection with the hearings

in the RUBY case at Dallas, texas.

USA POOLE advised that he

did not have the specific information concerning BROMBERG but

that he recalled BROMBERG had a questionable background and that

he, POOLE, had conveyed this nonspecific information to Mr. RItE

a Departmental assistant.

He had been unable to give Mr. RILEY any specifia

details other than that he recalled that there was some scandal

in connection with Dr. BROMBERG leaving Sacramento and that it

was rumored that BROMbERG went to New York to be with a mistress.

< INCLACIEtreau (Encls.

5)

-Dallas (44-1639)

(Encl. 1)

EX, ü1I7 ;

-1063

2

- San Francisco (44-494)

(1- 100-33976)

7/4,25

REG 3/14. 24016

in FEB 964

GUN: ab

(6)

1.

live!

SC. T. Wick

C :

id.-e

• Approved:

79 FEB FLB 1964 Agent in Charge

Sent

_ М

Per

DocId: 32145219

Page

2

IINRECORDED COPY

FILED

---

## Page 3

SE 44-494

GJN : ab

Sacramento Resident Agents, through established

sources and without making any inquiry, determined that Dr.

BROMBERG and his wife, ESTHER, have been in Sacramento, Calif.,

since September, 1948. : In 1956 he was. self-employed as

physician at 2720 Capitol Ave. and reported

a salary of $15,000.

His. wife reported a salary of

$415 per month as a social worker

for the State of California. He formerly resided in Reno, Nev.

BROMBERG left Sacramento in about January, 1963, for New York

City, to obtain further schooling.

Several years ago, a nurse (identity unknown) from

Napa, Calif., made a complaint that Dr. BROMBERG conducted

"sex parties" in which he struck women companions with

a whip.

The first sourcementioned in the LHM is the City

Civil Service records; Sacramento, Calif.

The second

, source

•is SF 1950-S.

The above and the enclosed LHM is for the information

•of the Bureau and Dallas in the event that the Bureau desires

•to instruct the SAC,

Dallas, to convey this information to the

prosecuting attorney in Dallas County.

53932

Docid: 32145219 Page

3

---

