# docid-32290740

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

,AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-564

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/03/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290740

Page 1

304

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

251

Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hi. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREND OF ESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION.

JUL 3 1962

TELEN

PE

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohai

"r. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

ír. DeLoach

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Malone

• Mr. Rosen.

DEFERRED 7-3-52

EATXXXXX 3-52

AM LJC

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Salian

MIr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

TO DIRECTOR , FBI 192-3182/

Miss Holmes

Miss

Gandy.

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/-

GUS

ALEX. AKA, AR. DAILY

SUMMARY.

EDWARD GANS, RESERVATIONS MANAGER, CONRAD HILTON

HOTEL, IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR OF SUZANNE FUEGER AND WHO IS I

AN ESTABLISHED SOURCE, ADVISED THAT FUEGER HAD REQUESTED THAT

SHE BE GIVEN THE FIRST TWO WEEKS OF OCTOBER OFF FOR HER VACATION.*

SHE DESIRED THESE SPECIFIC WEEKS, ACCORDING

TO GANS, BECAUSE HER MOTHER WAS PLANNING ON VISITING

THE UNITED STATES ABOUT THAT TIME.. GANS STATED THAT HER

MOTHER RESIDES IN MUNICH, GERMANY, AND DOES NOT SPEAK A°

WORD OF ENGLISH. GANS SAID SUZANNE TOLD HIM THAT SHE WOULD

HAVE TO BE BY HER SIDE CONSTANTLY IN SHOWING HER AROUND

SINCE SHE COULD NOT SPEAK ENGLISH:

GANS FURTHER ADVISED THAT ON THE WEEK END OF JUNE

TWENTYTHREE DASH TWENTY FOUR LAST SUZANNE MENTIONED THAT SHE .

HAD BEEN WATER SKIING AND HAD INJURED HER RIGHT WRIST.

ALEX AND SUZANNE ARE BELIEVED TO BE VISITING THE FARM OF

AND PA BROTHER AT CASSAPOLIS, MICHIGAN, ON WEEK ENDS BURTO 564

END PAGE ONE

374

EX 100

5 JUL 3 1962

CHUL101962

DocId: 32290740 Page 2

---

