# docid-32201945

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10056

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : HOOVER, J. EDGAR

TO : HANES, JOHN W./STATE

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE : 09/19/60

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

TRAVEL TO GENEVE, SWITZERLAND

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653 DocId: 32201945

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AtT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEDDIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

105-77667

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

SECRETO

, REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 3/31/94 dak

D. RELEASE IN FULL

1 - Liaison

- 1 - Mullins

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

CMB 16:2-94

A RELEASE IN PART

BY LIAISON

I TOTAL DENIAL

September 19, 1960

Mr. John W. Hanes

Administrator

Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs

Department of State

Washington 25, D. C.

John Edgar Hoover, Director

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

3/2/94

Classifed by 05 RmB/GaL

Declassify on: DAD$ (JFK)

1959

and July 9

Reference is made to our memoranda dated April 6,

1959, concerning the subject.

Reference

is also made to elegrar Number 746 from the United States

Havana, Caba, to the Secretary of State dated

August 15

1960.

of the Cuban Federation of University Students 1960. The

The telegram indicatea that Cubela, President

nad devarted

9-70-60

Elli

IC

Tolson

sohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

Rosen

Tamm

RAM: jWn ^

Trotter

w.C. Sullivan --

(5)

be expected to criticize the United States during their trip.

Enclosed is a copy of a menorandum dated august 2y

Nimbassy of Cuba, Hashington, Do Cors

which indicates Cubela was in

Lew Yor': City on August 14

and plans to contact

ose Vasquez Blanco, Consular Attache at the curan Consuiate,

Now York Cicy? at a later date wile in the United States

en route back

Cuba from Switzerland.

Prior date, has been

unished your lepartent indicating Vasquez Bianen conducts

activities on bebalf. of the Cuban Governentas

In view of Cubela's background, we are interested

in knowing if he was in the United States legally and if

- his re-entry into the United States upon the completion of his

visit to Switzerland will be permitted: 105-77667-7

Enclosure eu la

REG. 4

-50:

SEP 21 b6ờ

(BEL NOTE PACE P)

"'E

TELETYPE UNIT O

SECRET

HH 54653 DocId:32201945 Page 2

---

