# docid-32323039

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90010-10043

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-9734-680

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BROWN

DL

Released under the John

askernation Records

Collection det of 19gz

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased:WH 54463 Date:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/21/1960

1

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

CP, USA VETERANS MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32323039

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (100-671-9)

7/21/60

SA F. HARLAN BROWN

CP, USA

VETERANS MATTERS

IS -C

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS BY 5W8 SUO/USP

DATE 2-13-47 BY-

(TEK)

written report to SA

serialized no 133-4-930, and la dated 415/68.

That report stated that on Tuesday, 7/5/60, BILL

LOWERY telephoned JOE LANDIN at his home.

LOWERY had re-

ceived a letter witten in Spanish from G. I. Forum founder,

DR. HECTOR P. GARCIA.

LOVERY wanted help

in translating the

letter into

• English and asked JOE to help him.

It was stated in the report that the letter related

and a latter cat state tao-ere shot

The Latin-Anerican had

refused to sign a speeding violation ticket. The killing

occurred in the victim's yard, a lew feet from his front door,

and in the presence of his wife, his mother, and 15-year old

brother.

The victim, VICENTE TREVINO, 1s survived by his wife

and five children under six years old, and urs. TREVINO 19

expecting another child.

The report further reflects that DR. GARCIA heads

a statewide VINCENTE TREVINO MEMORIAL COMMITTEE and urges the

Chairman of the Dallas Forun to contact other organizations and

form a VINCENTE TREVINO MEMORIAL COMMITTEE.

He suggested that

such a conmittee should be formed in every Texas town. GARCIA

outlined some things the committee should do.

the letter, BILl, LOWERY said he would take the letter to the

ater recy

After receiving JOE LANDIN's assistance in translating

Forum meeting that night.

Informant had no additional information.

is: 100-671-9

• 131-4-330A (Repts. DI-7-S)

• 100-7929 (B. Lowery)

• 100-8001 (J. Landin)

= 100-9734 (G.I. Forum)

WHB: HM

(5) 4

100-9734-680

SEARCHED......

ED....

SERIALIZED

• JUL 21 1960

FBI -- DALLAS

NW 54463 DooId: 32323039

Page 2

---

