# docid-32301171

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10006

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-227

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/23/1961

GM, SMO, ASSOC, TELCAL, MONITOR, RAID, GAMBLING

ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301171 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

ReLease

under the John I. Remedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREA 0- WE T'SAUN

U.S. DEPARAME di JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT2, 3 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans_

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

10-23-51

7-01 PM EDST

DLH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2914

1192-2918

FROM

SAC, PITTSBURGH 92-236 92-228

GABRIELL MANNARINO, AKA•, ARO

• SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA•, ARO FOR

SEVERAL YEARS,

INFORMANTS HAVE ADVISED THAT MANNARINO

ORGANIZATION HAS HAD TELEPHONE OPERATORS IN THE NEW KENSINGTON,

PAO, AREA MONITOR CALLS TO ANY FEDERAL AGENCY IN PITTSBURGH

ON OCTOBER TWENTYTHREE, INSTANT, PE SIX ONE TWO C ADVISED THAT

ONE SUCH OPERATOR IS THE WIFE OF PAREN TUCKER END PAREN GALLION.

IT IS NOTED THAT GALLION WAS ARRESTED BY IRS AGENTS ON AUGUST

TWENTYFOUR LAST DURING RAID ON MANNARINO GAMBLING CASINO-

HORSE ROOM IN NEW KENSINGTON AND HE IS NOMINALLY PRESIDENT OF

THE MANNARINO AFTER-HOURS JOINT IN THAT CITY KNOWN AS THE BACHLOR-ES

CLUB. EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO ESTABLISH VALIDITY OF THIS INFO-

RMATION AND ASCERTAIN IF VIOLATION EXISTS. BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD

BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

CORR LINE 10 LAST WORD-SH BE " BACHLOR-ST

CORR LINE ELEVEN L WD ONE- SHD BE - CLUB*

END AND ACK PLS

REC 83,

7-06 PM OK FBJXXX FBI

WA JA OCL 53

92294-22%10

TU DISC

1212

I OCT 24 1961

viS

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 92-29

DocId:32301171 Page 2

---

