# docid-32330025

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90089-10060

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1622-38

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/17/1960

PAGES:

177

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330025

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONEIDENTIAL

SECRET

MM 2-156

(INFORMANTS CONTINUED)

IDENTITY

MM I-2 18 MM 492-5 j

4(71)

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

Instant report, page f

MM ISIS

"Information furn-

ished in memos dated

PeR ArmY LetteR

August 14, 17 and 19,

10/25/82.

9145 C8/Dms

1960, from R. D. ALBRO,

(541(4)]

Colonel; General Staff,

Department of the Army,

Washington, D. C., to

the Director, FBI

105-2917-1,2,3

MM T-4 is THOMAS J.

McCRORY, 718

Malaga Avenue,

Coral Gables,

engaged in the marine

business in the Miami

area. (Identity

protected by request)

MA T-S 18 FA 724-5188 21)

MM T-6 is MM 639-S

Instant report, page_ll

Instant report, page_ 15

du)Instant report, page 17

MM I-7 is ROBERT HOPKINS

CIA representative,

Miami →

Instant report, page 12

class, Fiod

9145 clArs

CA IN FiREMANUS CLASSIFIED

• COVER PAGE •

for THEir

9803 red/ ge

*211,326

9/24192

CONFIDEN

NAD

2-1622-38

DocId: 32330025 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kemedy Assassination Recoris

Collection- Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:. 11-14-2017

CONFIDA

ITIAL

SECRET

MM 2-156

(INFORMANTS CONTINUED)

IDENTITY

AN T-2 18(MM 492-S JA (21)

И)

Is intormation

• furn-

Peo ARMy

August 14, 17 and 19,

LotteR 10125/82

1960, From R. D. ALBRO,

9645 alons

Colonel, General Staff,

Department of the Army,

Washington, D. C., to

the Director, FBI

MM T-4 is THOMAS J.

McCRORY, 718

Malaga Avenue,

Coral Gables,

engaged in the marine

business in the Miami

area.

(Identity

protected by request)

NAN T-5 18(14 724-57512)

MM I-6 is MM 639-S

MM T-7 is ROBERT HOPKINS.

CIA representative,

Miami

Classifier

LCIA/Lette 71191851

9145&1 Ams

а познадня

clearified

per. their

9803 20250

#74.3568/24192)

send 1

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

Instant report, page 4f

105-2917-1,2,3

Instant report, page_ll

Instant report, page_15

u Instant report, page_17

Instant report, page 22

-G_

•. COVER PAGE -

SURRECRET

CONTDENTIAT

2-1622-38

DocId: 32330025 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFDENTIAL/OO

SECRET

MM 2-156

(INFORMANTS CONTINUED)

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

MM T-8 is report

dated October 20,

1960,.

received from

British Intelligence (5)

Instant report, page 80

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and "T symbols have been

utilized only in those instances where identity must be

concealed.

- COVER PAGE -

CONFIDENT

ALIA

SECRET

ZECUEL

2-1622÷38

DocId: 32330025

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released yer the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: °11-14-2017

8400

CONFASENTIAL

MM 2-156

(INFORMANTS CONTINUED)

IDENTITY

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

MM T-8 is(report

dated October 20,

1960, received from

British Intelligence](s)

Instant report, page 80

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and "T" symbols have been

utilized only in those instances where identity must be

concealed.

• COVER PAGE -

CONFIDANTIAL"

RECKS:

21622-38

DocId: 32330025

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(SECRET

MM 2-156

JDH/ neb

On November 3,

11960, MM I-8, a Confidential

Source abroad, advised that the following information

had been obtained concerning the twenty-seven man expedi

tion which invaded Cuba during the first part of October,

1960, reported backed by ROLANDO MASFERRER. (S)

On or about September 24, 1960, FRANK WILLIAMS,

117 North Flagler Avenue, Homestead, Florida, fisherman

and owner of the "Sunsport," was approached in Marathon,

Florida Keys, by a man called "JULIO" (LNU), who asked

him to take a load of petrol to refuel another boat at

sea.

WILLIAMS is the owner of the diesel-engined converted

L. G. V. P., the "Sunsport," registered in Florida with

License No. FL45285A. WILLIAMS was offered $100.00 a

day for this job which he accepted. He subsequently

loaded the "Sunsport" in Miami with twenty drums of high

test gasoline amounting to 1, 100 gallons. (S)

On. September 26, 1960, the "Sunsport," with

WILLIAMS as captain, and accompanied by PAUL HUGHES,

425 Harold Avenue, N. E., Atlanta, (also 524 Teckwood

Drive, N. W., Atlanta,) left Biscayne Bay near Miami to

keep a rendezvous with a fast P. I. boat, the "Aladino,"

at Mira por vos Cays about fifteen miles

southwest of

Castle Island lighthouse: (Castle Island is immediately

south of Acklins Island in the Bahamas.) (S)

The "Aladino" Is believed to belong to ROLANDO

MASTERRER, a supporter of the ex-BATISTA government in

Cuba. This vessel, with twenty-seven anti-CASTRO

revolutionaries on board, had left Miami at about the

same time as the "Sunsport." The captain was a Cuban

called GONZALEZ-PADRON and the engineer another Cuban,

MARRERO-ORTEGA.

HORATIO GONZALEZ PADRON (possibly

Identical with HORACIO CANIZARES PADRON), resides in

care of Coinmar Lines, 2974 N. W. North River DrIve,

Miami, I

Florida, and is a boat captain.

ABELARDO MARRERO-

ORTEGA (possibly identical with ABELARDO MORRERO ORTEGA) ,

operates a filling station at the corner of S. W. 6th (S\

80.

[SECRET

2-1622-38

DocId: 32330025 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Releaset under the John-F-Kennedy Assassination.Records Colleotion Aot of 1992(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

MM 2-156

JDH/ neb

Street and sth Avenue, Miani, and is a merchant shipping

mechanic.

The original intention was

that the "Aladino"

should go straight to Cuba and then return to the Castle

Island rendezvous, where she would be refueled from the

"Sumagort," aims to lecompetent navigation. r

aground several times on her outward journey

Banamas waters and ran out of fuel. By the time "Aladino"

reached Castle Island lighthouse on about the first of

October, her engines were in poor condition and it was

not safe for her to proceed any further.

The Invasion

party of twenty-seven men was transferred to the

"Sunsport" and

on about the fourth of October were

landed at a point one-and-a-half miles southeast of

Baracoa light in Oriente Province, Cuba, where accord-

ing to WILLIAMS they were given a

hearty welcome by the

villagers. (S

The "Sunsport" then returned to Castle Island

and found that the "Aladino" had gone aground near the

lighthouse,

the anchor having broken.

She is likely

to become & total wreck. After a

day's delay, GONZALEZ.

and MARRERO were taken aboard the "Sunsport"

with five

carbines, one rifle and twenty-two rounds of assorted

.30, 38 and .45 ammunition, which did not fit the guns.

According to HUGHES, these weapons were withdrawn from

the invasion party (who were armed with carbines, rifles

and revolvers), because of their doubtful serviceability. (s)

The "Sunsport" then set course for Nassau, but

as shewas running out of fuel, put in to Georgetown, Great

Exuma, where she arrived on October 7. By this time, the

Bahamas police had become suspicious

that something was

going on and the four men were taken into custody. WILLIAMS

and HUGHES were subsequently allowed to return to the

U.S. on about October 8, 1960. It is not clear where

the two Cubans are at the moment. (5)

81

SECRET

5-1622-38

DocId: 32330025 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 2-156

JDH/ neb

HUGHES claims that he was the organizer of

the invasion and that he was working with ROLANDO

MASFERRER.

He said he was anxious to return to Miami

in order to make arrangements for further supplies to

He said

he had the promise of 800 sten guns from some sympathizers

boat about the size of the "Aladino," but which was more

economical in fuel. HUGHES alleged that the U. S.

authorities boarded the "Aladino" after

she left Miami,

but asked no questions about the large number of men on

board, declined to search for arms,

and wished them good

luck and

allowed them to proceed. (S)

While the "Sunsport" was at Castle Island

either on its outward journey or on its return from

Cuba, (it is not clear which), it was contacted by

an airplane piloted, so WILLIAMS, believes, by JULIO

(LNU.) Messages were dropped asking if they were in

trouble and if the men had been put ashore in Cuba.(S)

On October 11, 1960, WILLIAMS returned to

Nassau to claim the "Sunsport." Among the documents

found on the "Sunsport" was a letter addressed to

Senor SANTIAGO ALVAREZ, 701 S. W. 8th Street, Miami.(S)

According to subsequent press reports, fifteen

at least of the twenty-seven men put ashore in Cuba have

been captured and executed. Three of these were Americans,

ANTHONY ZARBA, DALE THOMPSON, and ROBERT O. FULLER. Press

reports also say that HUGHES himself has been arrested,

so he must have.

returned to Cuba after leaving Nassau

on October 8(5)"

In January, 1960, HUGHES, together with a man

called MATTHEW DUKE, used the airstrip at Great Exuma

as a jumping off point for a fire-raising raid on some

Cuban sugar fields. In May, 1960, DUKE was killed in Cuba

while trying to exfiltrate someone from that country.(sl

82,

2-1622-38

DocId: 32330025 Page 8

---

