# docid-32338831

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10249

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-85

Released under the John

F. kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :WI 54460

Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/28/1945

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

19.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338831

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONMDENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

Forma No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

REPORT MADE AT

DATE WHEN MADE

LOS ANGELES

12-28-45

FILE NO. 100-21198

PERIOD FOR

IN 26102-3,8

2,11,19,20-45

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT W. HOLLMAN

TITLE

CHARACTER OF CASE

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, with aliaseeI INPARMATION CONTA INTERNAL SECURITY - C

HEREIN IS LNCLASSLFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Although LAWSON has moved further from Los

Angeles and announced that he intends to

spend a year rèwriting an historical text,

sources recently disclosed he is negotiating

with former movie actor LEW AYRES and may

write a screen play based on an original

story by ERNEST VEMINGWAY. Subject continues

his leadership in the Communist movement in

the motion picture industry and identified in

Communist front organizations.

Subject active

in raising funds and reorganizing staff of

Communist controlled Feople's Educational

Center and will arrange "New Masses" dinner in

January.

Subject appeared on A.Y.D. program

and participated in Anerican-Russian cultural

progran.

subject identified at Communist meet-

ing on December l and at County Board meeting

December 6 and arranged and attended day-long

Communist meeting on December 9. Analysis of

bank account reflects continued payments

alleged communist front organizations.

MAssilet

=F-

eclassify on: CAs

1- 1ko-8

MIDL

Reference:

Report of Special

Agent JOHN R. VICARS,

October 31, 1945, at Los Angeles.

Details:

Declassily Ga: 0A08

Recently Source, A has advised that the subject will move from his

APPROVED AND

home to 9354 Burnet Street, San Fernando, California, which is several miles

FORWARDED:

_ IN CHAR

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

- Bureau

- New York (Info.)

3 - Los Angolege don.

COPIES DESTROYED

25 WAR 23

1963

1100-310750-85

RECORDED

INDEXED

80 4

19

JAN

1965

COPY LN

110 - I9

NTIAL B

7-2034

NW 54460 DooId:32338831 Page 2

---

## Page 3

D

LoA. F.D. 100-21198

CONFIDENT IAL

Source

Source

Agent McGAUGHEY •

Source

CONF. INFT.

SSC-4, who made this information aveilable to Special

CINDI LA-2900:

Source E

i CNDI. LA-2800.

CORE ARENTIAL

1H 54460

DooId: 32338831

Page 3

---

