# docid-32201991

## Page 1

Date: 06/08/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY. : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 157-10004-10102

RECORDS SERIES :

REPORT

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

.TO :

TITLE :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DATE : 10/20/76

PAGES : 6

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CUBA

ASSASSINATION PLOTS

DOCUMENT "DENIED IN

FULL"

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 50529

DocId: 32201991

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• UNI:." STATES DEPINTMENT OF J: CICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Los Angeles,

California

October 20, 1957

In Reply, Picase Erfer lo

File No.

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

128/94 cal

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Cubans

(LAPD)

mons

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITISS

Information set out herein pertains to

fine three

n

who were arrested by the los Anueles

Polace Depareront

Septemuer 3, 1957, for possessic of

a nacrine san.

On

Septenter 20, 196?,

Ge

P-

eatt, Investigator,

please

18l James M. Leahy fri:

Inmigration

and

Naturalization

Seri

), Los Angeles,

advised that there was no record

concering one of

atin-

arrestees,

Arerica:

the arrest trade bis,

5

address report caris fo:

no recora could ce

Investigator

ne brierly interuleno.

Vigo-Villa and

LuiS

be Anthony. M.

Veic::

a::0

A1C0::01

and Tocases

Tas:

ment, ai the North loil:

ther deternined that

three

at

the

time of

There was no indication

the part of the

been a member of Brigad

cossful irvaszon of Cuc

is being condueted by

Investigator

nis dossession a recoup

which described it a

Durellen, i.

J.

"_- Seria

for the

surl,

it was pli

Nort:: H0l1.w00d,

Calito

Fra

Septe

Surplus, 5202 Lankers:

were

two

boxes or air

J:1

$132.21:

Vigo told Invest.s.us

Preact

and

that

trey

re goin

Ei.e

$11

in jail,

Vigo

•elephoned

Cs

Perca,

The

i23

Knowil.

SAUt

1S6:

to

5713

195

ine,

receipt

Elmer

£20:?

18.3

Cluded

ps,

for

total

nat

Rose

is

3

Chori,

0'1

hin.

100.00e

smile

mimics

DEPARTRENT OF TESTE

recipe

MÀY 7 1976

DOJ

270

NOV

1967

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINES UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/28/F4-BY ISU3 Rpose

56K)

NH. 50529

DooId: 32201991 Page 2

INdianentury in

---

## Page 3

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

File No. A12-547-351, for Angel. Alfredo Vigo-Villa,

was reviewed at INs, los Angeles, on segtember 20, 1901.

This

in Camaguer,

1951, at idani,

Florida,

immigrant, had Cuban Passport do. 62227 issued oy the Ministry

ворі ди 2 6 ла 7. 134 ео на 20, 200, 024,

In his application for Immicrant Visa and Foreign

Registration dated garch 24, 1901, filed with

the U.S. Consulate,

Kingsion, Jamaica, Vigo gave his address as 70 Hanover

Street,

and his

occupation as a student.

Me was described as:

Race

Sex

Marital

Status

Height

Hair

Eyes

Destination

Yale

Single

5'5

Brown-

Brown

LOUIS GATES

4132 Northeast 33th Street

Miami, Florida

Relatives

Father:

ANGEL VIGO-JOVE

Independencia #113

Canaguey, Cuba

Mother:

EMILIA VILLA-MORILLA

Incepenciencia

#113

Canaguey, Cuba

Sister:

ANGELA VIGA

Incependencia $133

Camaguey, Cuba

In Vigo's file is a 115t

of current status

of known

Cuban burglars and

robbers, supplement to the Sheriff's Da:!

Builetin, published on February 13, 1955 by the Dade Coune:

Sherirf's Office, Criminal Intelligence section.

According to

this,

Angel Vigo

was in Dace County Jail, charged with one count

of robbery.

Following is Vigo's FBI Identification Record,

contaned

1n

the file:

MAY 7 1976

D0J

-2-

NH 50529 DocId: 32201991 Page 3

---

## Page 4

The following EBI record, NUMBER 31S 220 E

CONTRINUTOR OR

FINGERPRIITS

NAME AND NUMUER

PD Fort liyers Fla

lAngel Mifredo

1180 10991

PD Miami Fla

Angel Alfredo

VIso 100470.

Arny

Angel Alfredo

Vigo-Villa

#UC 50 302

107

meinheroid

Vigo NOttO

Ente!

.0

pienaren

liturere.

, is furnishod FOR OFFiCI CapONa:

RECLIVER

CHANCE

0:5:05,7101

11-23-51

excasalve gased

cariet

fillty

30 ÷

135 c=

10-19-62/a65

tanen

c701.0n

L/ES

10-29-03

10-25-62

Coral

Cables

FIa

6-21-6

So Miami, Fla

D'alani Fla

D Miani Fla

D Ulani }'la

Angel Alfredo

Vigo

786273

anger adiredo

Vigo

79947

Angel A

#80470

1150

Angel

ViSO

lfracio

S0470

O Miani Fla

langel

Y1g0

1508.13

RECEVO

MAY

TROM

Information sảo

1976

contiibunn:

trata cronicy

D' 0J

dictatichio inclientici

1O'F 66.÷1

aereid

220g0i

aggente cult

SAR

•26-65

stoler prep

2-

- 53

pagrinag

2-.

- 05

burg Pa!!

3-1-

5-12-

2a

la lo no! chown o: !:!F.

(?..

stoirh70n

r31.

Con Contes

7/1/15

--

.. сот.:

50529 DocId: 32201991 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

In the file was

a copy of the Sheriff's Daily Bulletin,

Dade County Sheriff's

Orrace, datca July 13, 1905

the following remarks under the caption,

Information":

Name

Race

Nationality

B1rtn Data

Height

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Peculiarity

Last known

Address

A. A. VIGO

White

Cuban

April 29, 1949

5'61"

120

Brown

Modus Operandi

Characteristics

Brace

01?

right leg

142 Nomüheast 56th Street

M121

Florida

Burglar, Rocoer

VIGO frequenes

race tracks

jai Alai Frontons

AMANDO DEE RIO aNd AERIA FUJELLO

Associates

Dade County

'Sheriff's Office

Number

In an application

sara.

Form I-151, on July

as 565 Northeast

This application was approved.

35273

an Alien Registration Receips

95?, Vigo showed his residerce

North Miami Beach, Florida.

A review of ti

Oliver#onzalez, Alien

ship.

(Liberian) through refused

0?

at Wilmington, Norer faro!

1=1e

I Luis Alverto De La Caricad

sistrat

don Municer 11-375-721, aù

sowed that Olivere

He entered the United States

epruary 1, 1900, by Jung-

Ship,

the

permit on arri::?

Newark, New

A notation 1::..

indicated

•deserted the ship oi

2r.d

Jorget,

was deprenen loan

returned to

cemuer 1959. не пас слія?

MAY

7 1976

DOJ

-3

NH 50529 DocId: 32201991 Page 5

---

## Page 6

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

As of October 26, 1961, Olivera's address vas shon

as 476 Southwest Fourt:

Street,

miami, Florica,

He was described

(as of February 10, 1950)

as white, male; five

feet, seven

inches; 150 pounds; brown nair; green eres.

A memorencum dated December 29, 1859, by Robert J.

This concerns

the desertion of olivera on December 23, 9959, from

the

"SS Sula G"

written

• in inks.

Mrs.

Nievis vas

and said she sa: Clivera

the

friendly with Teresa G

Jersey.

He was

locates

She telepaoned der nuso

Olivera would be killed

returned to Cuba.

Olive

elected councilman in his

the

"Suia G"

15 days befor

had paid $200 for a Cuban

51

latter

ananass, with Teresa Guzman.

who reburned

to the nouse.

A]1 5210

0011

tacal activitzes if he were

eea a leicer alleging ne wes

He said he rad joired

anta Lucia, Cuba, ano that o

port and exit permit from ine

Cuban Revolutionary Poliec

Olivera was inter

Investigator, IS, on

Feor

last entered the U.s. on

"e'o

Carolina, by jumping a si

captain knew he previous

Jersey, about December

was put back on the sn

did noi want to return

He claimed he was president of

ewed under oath by Rocert f. Irisr,

10, 1950, at Miami.

He saidi.e

uary 1, 1960, at Charleston, Saitr

ing the Liberian flag.

le

the ship at Carteret, Me:

1959

He said he was picked no aid

but

amped ship at Charleston as e

Cuca

or fear re would de prosecutes.

Anti-Conmunist Youth Fo:o-

ment in Cuba,

and said

Cuba

for fighting

• Con

days each time.

He

two or tires

Luis Olivera was cead

that his mother, na.

¡a Gorizalez,

No. 1.23, Guaria.,a,,

ida.

ic said hè

was s.hole and that ie

coula not return to Cuca

because or oolitical reasons.

As of fegruary 10, 1950, Olivera lived at 421 H0:::-

west Fifteenth Avenue, Miami, florida

• Aù 2.n90

ring on April 4, 1900

at INS, Miant, Flooria,

REutras released

antin at Ins, Maama.

On April 19, 1950, 191"9

orre Men deteria ta Cusa, pursiant to section 243, Intera..:

and

-4-

HH 50529

DocId: 32201991 Page 6

---

## Page 7

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

On April 25, 1950, the Caribbean Sea Corporation,

c/o Marinus, Incorporate,

was advised of the deportation orcion againsü Olivera.

of this was sent to Palmero Shagging Company, Fost Office

Box. 342, Charlestons

• Souen Carolina.

By letter

april 2u, 1900, to lis, Harimus,

Incorporater,

requested INs to arn

re transportation for Clivera's Ceboria-

tion and said Marinus

sticuld

be billed

for the charges.

3y memorancium daved June 21, 1900m Olivera was or

i five Cubans lisica es having reen granted permission (=

accordance with a memogardum dated Agrild2,

1950, of the

Assistant Conmisszo.erg

Examinations, Coqural Office, I'S.

regarding Cuban Nationals!

to change

domicile

fron Miami

to Garden Grove, Califo

•i=,

to

NOl:

for the quboer consonade?

of California, Post DIf

4C C

Bo: 273, Garden Grove, Calitornia.

An order of Re

Lease

Recognizance for livene c

August 17: 1960, stated

should

sou travel outside clorica

without written permissi

from

On August 23,

1960,

was advised he was release?

on conditional parole.

Olivera's departu

was verified by Joseph E.

from the U. S. on August 23, 1050;

¿, Chief, Deportation Sectio:?,

INS, Washington, D. C.

As of October 12

DE1, Olivera's address was 475 Sout:-

west fourth, Miami, Flor:

His previous adoress was 3625 corü:-

west Eleventh, Miami.

Ast of June 30, 19.10.

he lived at ladies

address and showed a pis

LOUS

address of. 1504 West Flagler

Street, Miami.

The Warrant

Deport

ation, Cated April 13, 1260, 13

Olivera's file shows

notation on tie reverso

side:

departure fron the Uds.,

August 23, 1900, verified br G.r. or

Central Office. Port

of departure and destinailor unchown.

Mary F. Baily, Dep.

voc.:où Cler'.

not Identification Record pertainins

file:

-

MAY

? 1976

DOJ

HH 50529 DocId:32201991 Page 7

---

## Page 8

W. Ott

ds.u.e.

The folloiriog FBI record, NUMBER

COMTRIDUTOR

show 210,

Directr.

, is furnished FOR OFFICIAL USE DYIT.

CHARGE

DISPOSITIO!!

USIas Miami Fla

PD Miami Fla

So Miami Fla

USu Miani Fia

821 021 D

• MAME ANO NU!PER

ARRESTED OR

RECEIYED

Luis Alberto

Olivara-Gonzale:

A11875 721 MIA

3-24-60

LUIS AlDErLO

Olivera

• #75782

5-11-61

Luis Alberto

Olivera

#102039

1-3-67

Iuis 21berio

Olivera

#5093-4769

1-2-67

dep

worthless chacks

8-23-50

• --

deported

5-11-611=

hold for usi

munitzons oi

n/o lic

RECEIVED

MAY

ROM

HH 50529

DocId: 32201991 Page 8

---

## Page 9

..."

ANTI-FIDEI, CASTRO ACTTVITIES

The files, of the Los Angeles Office of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation contain no other information identi

fiable with Angel Alfredo Vico-Villa, Luis Alberto De La

Caricad Olivera- Gonzalez or Jose Migucl. Gonez-Morell.

This document contains neitier recommendations ror

conclusions of the BI. It is the propert; of the isI and

is loaned to your agency

; It and lts contonts are not to bo

distriouted outside cous agency.

-

6*

iny ? 1976

DOJ

Aw 50529 DocId: 32201991 Page 9

---

