# docid-32326982

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90058-10244

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

91-18345-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/29/1964

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JOSEPH D'ARGENTO

RICHARD CAIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO; SUBSTANTIVE WRITE-UP CHICAGO INSPECTION

v9.1

DocId: 32326982

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

In connection with this matter,

Chicago informant

CG 5913-C, who had identified LA JOY as one of the participants

in the bank robbery, was contacted relative to this film and

could not furnish any information concerning it. This informant

was very close to LA JoY during

this period.

It was my intention, at such time as the motion to

to submit the films

return the film was handled by the court whatever assistance

to the FBI Laboratory for réview and for

the Laboratory could give me in connection with the ITOM investi-

gation.

I now realize that I should have advised the Bureau

that the films were not being forwarded to the

FBI Laboratory

because of motions by defense counsel,

and that the Bureau would

then have been aware of the action being taken regarding these

films.

The Bureau will be advised of our

retention of the film

and the proposed action to be taken when

the motions are

adjudicated.

ASAC W. B. WELTE:

U(10/5/64)

WBW: wmn

I recognize the fact that the Bureau should

have been advised that the film has been

retained by this office and was not being

submitted to the FBI Laboratory for examination

inasmuch as the film was subject to a motion by the defense

counsel for its immediate return to LA JOY.

The judge has not

rendered a decision and it has been continually postponed.

I

think that the Chicago Office was justified under the circumstances

in retaining the film because it could have been ordered returned

at any time and we would have had to produce it. I am also aware

of the possible ITOM violation and recognize the fact that it

could not possibly have been made unless the FBI Laboratory were

to positively identify the source of the film as being out of

state. This would give us a lead, but on the meager information

furnished by LA JOY, it would still leave much investigation to

be conducted. At this point, I feel that the Bureau should have

been advised that we were retaining the film and informed of the

contemplated action by the Chicago Office.

This matter will be

followed closely and the Bureau will be advised of our possession

of this film and

the pending action.

SAC M. W.

(10/5/64)

MWJ : wmn

JOHNSON.

I will closely follow to see that the Bureau

is advised and that as soon as the motion is

decided and if favorable, the film will be

immediately submitted to

the FBI. Laboratory for

its possible assistance in the ITOM investigation. The Bureau

should have been advised that we were retaining the film pending

decision on motion for its immediate return by defense counsel.

175

DocId: 32326982 Page 2

---

