# docid-32584815

## Page 1

Date : 01/09/98

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

FBI

: 124-10223-10485

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-X, X1, X2, X3, X4, X5, X6, X7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

DATE: 03/16/54

PAGES : 12

SUBJECTS : SGI, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, GAMBLING, BUSS, REL, TRA,

SUBPOENA, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/08/98

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC 7 MEMO

HH, 45792

DocId: 32584815

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, B4

Office Mirandum • UNITED

ES GOVERNMENT

DATE: September 28, 1956

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

SAC, Chicago (94-519; Sub. 11)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL, GIANCANNA, WaS

GIIF (TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE)

Re SAC letter 53-50 dated August 25, 1953,

and chicago letter dated March 30, 1956.

On June 4,

1956,

POI WILLIAM O. BATES

advised SA DENNIS W.

SHANAHAN that the Forest Lounge

Illinois, reputedly the headquarters of

& LANCANNA, IS now known

as the, Armory lap and Is

operated by one CARMIE FINELLI (phonetic) for

GIANCANNA.

It is noted that FINELLI is supposedly

identical with CARMIN BINELLA who Is

a known

associate of NICKXMONTOS

Bureau

Chicago

FWM: jmb

(3)

DI: 4/20/84 S85N9/Buy

REUJ..020 - 10

IDED - 10

1001

FININ 2:

EX. 108

92 = 3172-X6

2735-

Re OCT

1956°

OCT

1956

MAR 20 1967

45792

DooId: 32584815 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NDARD FORM NO.

Office Memoranduin • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE: March 30, 1956

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

IRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CHICAGO (94-519 sub 11)

SAMUEL GIANÇANNA, WaS.

GITF

(TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE)

Re SAC letter 53-50 dated August 25, 1953-and.

Chicago letter dated September 27, 1955

In October, 1955, SANDY SMITH,

a reporter for the

"Chicago Tribune"

, whose name should not be disclosed under

any circumstances, advised that SAMUEL GIANCANNA and TONY

ACCARDO are

the actual owners of the Utility Engineering

Company, 5142 West Roosevelt Road and 6201 West Roosevelt

Road, howevers

the owner listedion the licences of these

two places is listed as ANTHONYNDE PRADO who lives at 1824

North 78th Avenue and who has an office at 6728 west Cermak

Road.

The "Chicagò Daily News" of October 3, 1955, listed

SAMUELAGIANCANNA, Whock is described as a syndicate gambling.

boss, as one of six top mob figures who had been subpoenaed

by the Special County Grand Jury which was investigating

the wave of unanswered bombings.

On November 15, 1955, DOMINICK ABATTA - PCI who

has given

advised SA WALTER

E. PETERS that GIANCANNA and SAM, PATTAGLIA have come to

positions of power within the alleged syndicate and were

definitely replacements for or officers of LOUIE CAMPAGNA

(deceased) and PAUL DE/LUCIA. ABATTA stated that he had

learned this through his attempts to regain control of

Local 777 of the Taxi Cab Drivers Union.

- Bureau

Chicago

FWM: JMH

(3)

TiBl

БЕР

IMAEZLICVIIAE

DIA

L I SECORDED

idl

INDEXED-88

1257

APR

1956

it -12

4

AL!

3X-108

AINED

MR 20 1967

HH

45792

DocId: 32584815

Page 3

---

## Page 4

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Men.

dum • UNITED ST

OVERNMENT

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC; CHICAGO (94-519-Sub 11)

DATE: March 31, 1955

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, WaS.

GIIF (TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE)

4

Re SAC letter #53-58 dated August 25, 1953

and Chicago letter dated September 28, 1954.

DOMINICK: ANTHONY SCALZITTO, PCI,

has advised

that GIANCANA frequents Philip's Restaurant and Candy

Store at 22nd and Cicero.

on January 18, 1955, CG 5841-0 advised that

he was contacted by one

1331 Indiana Avenue, a seven apartment

building, mortgage desired $35,000;

2111 South Homan Avenue,

a two flat

building, mortgage desired $12,000;

1620-22 South Harding, a thirteen apart-

ment building, mortgage desired $45,000;

1145-51 Catalpa Avenue, a twelve apartment

building, mortgage desired $43,500.

He stated that he subsequently discussed

this matter with PASSARO in the presence of one (FNU)

CHAMPAIGN (ph), an attorney FOR SAMUEL GIANCANA.

It

is the informant's theory that the syndicate owns

these properties although the records show that the

trustee is the Pioneer Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.

On February 18, 1955, CG 5841-0 advised

that GIANCANA recently remodeled the building at 4810-

12 West 22nd Street in Cicero, Illinois and converted

it into a plush gambling place with roulette wheels,

a horse parlor,

private rooms for card games and refresh-

ment facilitiés.

92-3171-X3

FWM: imr

TROL INFOR STION CONTAINED

63-735030

SIRED

RISTORDED .

DATEY 2084

BY S05R12

21

APR

1959

$I APR * 1955

EX 103

file

MAR 20 1967

6

NW 45792 DooId: 32584815

Page 4

---

## Page 5

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Men

dum • UNITED ST

G. I. R. -

GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : SAC CHICAGO (94-519 - Sub 11)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

GIANCANA,

was.

GIIF

(TOP HOODLUM COVERAGE)

DATB: September 28, 1954

1841

Re SAC letter #53-58 dated August 25, 1953 and

Chicago letter dated March 30, 1954.

The reputed owners are NICK)P'AMICO and JAMESXPAVIES:

a third and principle owner or the

Wagon Wheel is SAM GIANCANA.: The cost of this gambling

establishment and its furnishings is reputed to be approxi-

CG 5951-0 has stated,

that it is general knowledge

among the hoodlums that the top setup of the alleged syndicate

insolar as the operation of taverns, handbooks, and minor gangs,

Is concerned is first IONY CARDO, then TONy CAPEZIO, followed

by SAM GIANCANA.

According to the informant GIANCANA

controlst

Cicero and the central west and

southwest suburbs; ROCKY

-POTENZA, allegedly a protege of SAM GIANCANA, controls the

north and northwest section of Chicago along with the north-

west. suburbs.

FWM/njb

INED

4120184

spSRig/Buy

RECORDED-891

INDEXED-89

92 - 3171-22

4135-

70-6

195%

385144

ir,

EX-125 -

55

MAR 20 1967

64 DCT 131954

71781

HH

45792

DooId:32584815 Page 5

---

## Page 6

на, ВА

Office Memorandum • UNITED S-mIES GOVERNMENT

TO

AFKO.

: DIRECTOR, FBI

.: SAC, CHICAGO (94-519 - Sub 11)

DATE: March

SUBJECT:

CONFIDENTIAL

Gianaco,

MI.

Boardman

Mr. Nichols.

MI. Belmont

Mr. Glavin

Mr. Harbo

MI.

Rosen

MI. Taran:

Mr. Tracy

Mr. Lichr

Mr. Winterroya

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

"Mooney".

San Gincana,

ooney

GIIF (TOP HODLUM COVERAGE)

Ne SAC Letter No. 53-58 dated Algust 25, 1953.

A summary of the information in Chicago files, con-:

cernine GIANCANA was submitted to the Bureau by letter Hated:.

Way 31, 1950, captioned "Survey Concerning Prominent Underworld

'igures being ade by lo s Attorneys.

Crime Survey."

copies of his photograch

were furnished at that time.

There

follows a resume of pertinent information gathered in Chicago

files since that time.

An article in the

an association of politicians of Italian extraction who are be-

lieved to be associated closely with

gambiing and hoodlum ele-

ments), as a former partner of

SA GIANCANA in the Windy City

Sports

Enterprises.

In an article in the "Chicago Daily News" dated Feb-

ruary 2,

1951, ADDUCI is revorted to have scoffed at the idea

that GIANCANA

was recognized as the leader of the Mafia in Chi

cago.

GIANCANA's name was listed in an article appearing

in the "Chicago Tribune" of June 9, 1951, as one of the hoodlun

gamblers, and politicians whose income tax returns were to be

investigated by a Special Fraud Squad of the Internal Revenuen

Bureau.

On November 8,

12-3/7-

1951,

the

"Chicago Daily

News" related

that the then State's Attorney JOHN S. BOYLE had assigned a

squad of State's Attorney Police to find GIANCANA after a capias

had been issued

onREcornt

lure to appear for arraignment in

INDEXED

APFROPRIATE AGENCIES

FWM: mcv

45: 755-

AND PINCE CITICES

SE 401

ADVIEND BY AOU

1954

P (S; 07.

35

MAR 20 1967.

6 JAFO] 1954

#. 104

MAR

§SITIE BY

0: 420184

NW 45792 DocId: 32584815 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DIRECTOR, FBI

Re: SAMUEL GIANCANA, waS.

to disclose.- This informant told NESTOR that his information

was that TONY ACCÁRDO and SAM GIANCANA were active in the mob's

attempts to muscle in on the shrimp industry.

Lieutenant NESTOR

Iurnished this information as a rumor, and contacts with WALTER

Chief Investigator of the

Chicago Crime Commission,

Deflected thai that Commission's intornation came trom ileutenant

NESTOR and that the Commission had been unable to verify the

rumor.

In February, 1953, CG 5841-C advised that SAM GIANCANA,

whom he described as a lieutenant of TONY ACCARDO, appears at

the hay one sat west he to ed mart, at that time

every Monday evening.

GIANCANA holds

court in which he settles all disputes amongst

members of the

hoodlum element, makes his underworld contacts,

and is available to any hoodlum who may need money or advice.

ment room of the Imperial. House, a swanky after theater supper

club at 50 East Walton Place as

a meeting place.

This restaurant

is operated by an Italian using the name BENySCOTT through whom

allegedly GIANCANA receives

his orders.

ILL

PCI ARTHUR/SEIDLER

who is an associate of GIANCANA,

has advised that RALPH CAIFANO,

Restaurant at 652 Chicago Avenue.

frequents the Copa Lounge and

zIL

5109

2, 3

- 3-

74 45792 DocId:

---

