# docid-32399259

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10112-10086

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

Released

under the John

• Kennedy

assasa ination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#: NT

53294 Date:

16-14-2017

TITLE

ANALYSIS UNIT FILE REVIEW

07/02/1958

DATE

SUBJECTS : WITHHELD

WITHHELD

WITHHELD

WITHHELD

BIO INFO

• DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS:

07/22/93

JEK41

: F4: 1993.07.22.18:39:32:750380

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10112-10086

HH 53294

DocId: 32399259

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ANALYSIS UNIT - FILE REVIEN

FILE # 112569

Reviewed by RUR

Date

_2 Jul 58

BOAN, Angel

SSD 128595 (BOAN, Angel Marcelo AKA: ACOSTA, Angel Marcelo BOAN) - In Jan. '56

#128595 was of interest for use as a contract agent in Cube. NAC'e were.

conducted at C2, State, FBI and CIC-CF with negative results and an DA was

granted for his use in Aug. '56. Cancellation of the OA was subsequently.

effected per the division memo dated 2 Mar 57. There is no indication that

he was actually used.

Biographically he is described as a native Cuban (DOB:

9 Apr 27 & Camaguey,

Cuba) who was a political writer for "Semanario de

Actualidad" a weekly news magazine until it coased publication in March 1955.

At the time of the request he was said to be a writer of "ads" for ALEX, S. A.,

C1a., PUBLICITARIA, Edificio Banço del Caribe, esq. Prado and Refugio Habanaz

to be an editor of a Banco del Caribe trade publication; and, to be a night

student at the Escuela de Periodisno, Calle G y Linea, Vedado, five nights

a week. There is no derog in file as regards Communist sympathies or activities

on his part, however, "SIM" files (not further indentified) describe him as

strongly anti-Batista and as one who was arrested in '52 on charges of plotting

against the Gov't.

CROZIER, Mrs. Le E.

*HUA Rpt - Appendix IX, p. 1763 liste one Lo1s CROZIER, Christian Youth

counc1 of Los Angeles, as an observer at t word to to dd truth, ke the

held at Vassar College

in August 1938.

American Youth Congress, was described as being completely under the control

of Communists. Lois CROZIER was not further identified.

MARCHANI. Cole John Ce

*CF 1-200 - Col. John C. MARCHANT, USAF, has been of contiming interest

since '56 re llaison contact and attendance at Agency orientations as pertains

Project USEFUL No. 4. Bio data describes him as a native of Boston,

Mass., (DOB

21 Feb 09) and a member of the Joint Middle East Planning Committee (under

Joint Chiefs of Staff). He has received IS clearance and no derog appears in

file. (NOTE: D.C. telephone directory lists but one Gol. John C. MARCHANT In

this area.

According to the listing,

the telephone numbers coincide but the

address in the diredory 18 given as 3012 16th S Arlington. If the address listed

in the notebook is nore recent of the two, there is the possibility that

#112569 has been in contact with MARCHANT

since the date of publication of

the directory in August 1957.)

Approved for Filing

NW 53294 DooId: 32399259

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ANALYS IS UNNE

- FILE REVIEW

FILE #

112569

Reviewed by RJR

•Date 2 Jul 58

SCHLICKER, Frank

SSD 67201 (SCHLICKER, Frank Lawrence) - Initial covert interest was shown

1n. #67201 in late '51 for his use as an Agent in Latin America. NAC's and

BI In 51 and 52 were favorable and use was apparently made of him. The most

recent activity in his file evinces procurement of Social Security card in '57

which was mailed to him in care of leo Calerco, 28W 12th St., NY with the

addressor being "Depärtment of Health, Education and Welfare" in NY.

Bio data describes him as having been born in Munich, Germany (1l Jan 1918)

of Gernan parents and later naturalized (1944) at San Juan, Puerto Rico after

entry into US in 1931 at NYC.

After attendance at schools in the US (HY) he,

served in the US Army In Puerto Rico and married a Puerto Rican girl. His

father, who was a baker in NY, died In '47 and his mother reportedly re-narried

and has been living In Germany since 1949. His occupation was given as that

at an accountant.

There is no derogatory info in file.

Approved for Filing

74 53294

DocId: 32399259 Page 3

---

