# docid-32371083

## Page 1

Date: 10/13/99

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10160-10086

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

CIA

Released under the John

usassination Records

601 eSt 2107e0 0e 1992

case#:NW 53294 Date:

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

MEMORANDUM - SUBJECT: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PAWLEY - #78435

10/14/59

2

: PAWLEY, WILLIAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

:

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/26/96

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JFK2: F1 1996.08.26.18:46:50:700100: PORTIONS OF THIS

DOCUMENT

(BLOCKED OUT IN WHITE) WERE REDACTED PRIOR

TO THE JEK EXERCISE.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53294

DocId: 32371083

Page

1

---

## Page 2

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1997

GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

Headquart

¡DRACUT FORET Spacial Agent in Charge

Headquarters Field Office

192k2ra.

cIa rods will contira rosbal assignent of this matter:

to jour affice on 8 Octoser 1959: HEADQUARTERS FISTD OFFICE

was designatad Driles of Orizine

2292838265860302086-29

tour as Us S, Anbassador to Pera and suseguently: to Bossil.

1l soro recynt yrars,.22 has engazed in potrole and miring:

aciltitlas. in the Dosinica Beguolio and bes sarrod aa aira

consultate to the Damnicar Cavarnout. la has cooperatod sita

COLLITy an uneroas ocasaiang and it a personal irlord or the

Pirector of COTTA A A

2A1254

3O KUDQUARTERS FIN OF IG3 In requested to dispatcase!

an agent to land, Floridi so as to andra during the altarco

os early traing of/t october for tha jurpoas of installing a

recarding darice 1a too Offica al the Subject for the 13e 05 302

tiao Subject la certain nattors of Interest to GOLiCH. Upon

tho arrival of your agent at klara, no should contact LonE

la furt employas of contita vico sharea

155:ã5

10=5435

C30üe8

Litt

==?

ise. Ze:

=:3.2r.

.!3.

init

will nal all tha necesjay arrangements for four reprosectatira

to gain excess to ta Subject's offica over the usel eat aire

16, 17 and 18 October It shoald be noted that ids la being

doca sita the fall consore and oprofanor the subject mas

necessary equipment to ba used in this assigment aili ta nis

aTailabla to your ropresantatio

D029°

HH. 53294

DocId: 32371083 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lo 1 representatire of Headquarters will call on mos.

priar to: the departure of your reprosentative. to nore iuliy.

orial you concering this sattar and to master aay partizari

Your witton report islatita to this naiter scould ba

subaitted to isacquaatars as 300n ay possible.

a tracionsent

Control. Car

39

HH 53294 DocId:32371083 Page 3

---

