# docid-32290326

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2232

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, LV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

"PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/11/1968

3

SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290326

262

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John.E:, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 10/11/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-317])

FROM:

SAC, LAS VEGAS (92-308)

(RUC)

715-94

BY SP5RS0.02

SPIMACE

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

REC-31

(00: Chicago)

Re Philadelphia airtel to the Bureau 9/23/68.U

For information of offices which have not previously

$170,000.

Mr. WILLIAl G. COULTHARD, Attorney at Law and

former Special Agent of the FBI

advised SA M. B. PARKER on

/ce sold to DAve: Coulla stated at that tine that

his opinion that PHYLLISMC GUIRE was to be shown ashl

the owner of the residence.

the same time an adjoining

residence was purchased to be used as a guest house by

MC GUIRE for a purchase price of $65,000.

COULTHARD stated

that according to the announced plans, the two houses would

be joined by a high fence, and that a

new olympic size

and other features would be

hat checks

6/9/67 with the checks being drawn on th

which is owned by DAVIS. U

The information fürnished by COULTHARD is to be

Lose vot entiRe and dot lot diseminated tie be beaa35

= Denver (92-170) (Info.)

2 - Chicago (92-349)

1 - New York (92-793) (Info.)

1 - Philadelphia

(92-907) (Info.):

1

MBP: 1fj

C. C. • Bishop

(9N0 OCT 1Y 1968

Approved:

1100

Sent

Per

Specidi Agant in

RT NNV A 1968

PERS. RBO.

32290326

---

## Page 3

Leased

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Corlection hot of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE:

11-14-2017

IV 92-308

On 9/15/67, an effort was made to interview

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE by SAM. B. PARKER and SA JAMES E. DOYLE

at the new MC GUIRE residence.

The maid informed that

MC GUIRE had just awaken and was not dressed. The maid

was instructed to contact MC GUIRE to see when she would

be available for an interview.

The maid returned and

stated MC GUIRE had told her to take the names of the agents

and she would contact the office to set up an interview.

the agents returned directly to the office, and MC GUIRE

telephonically contacted the Las Vegas Office within thirty

minutes.

Following a telephone conversation with SA PARKER,

she dec ined to be interviewed in person and the conversatio

vas terminated.

IV 241-C-TE is extremely close to DAVIS and

MC GUIRE and has occasions to visit her residence frequently.

Informant has advised that he has never seen subject in

MC GUIRE's residence, and in informant's opinion, it is

extremely doubtful that he would ever come to las Vegas.U.

PHYLLIS MC GUIRE is currently playing as a single

at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas. LV 361-PC advised on

9/25/68 that MIKE DAVIS was in town and was residing with

MC GUIRE at her home.. Informant further stated that DAVIS

had bought MC GUIRE a

$35,000 custom-made Rolls Royce

automobile which he had delivered to MC GUIRE on that date. U

Periodic checks are made of MC GUIRE's residence

by the Las Vegas Division.

it appears MC GUIRE is utilizing the services of a maid

named BESSIE MC NEAL, whom MC GUIRE has utilized for a number

of years when she would be appearing in Las Vegas prior to

interviewed and while she was not belligerent, she was

definitely not cooperative.

She gave the impression during

the interview that she was

completely loyal to MC GUIRE in

every respect. U

-? -

10d.10005

DocId: 32290326

Page 3

---

