# docid-32302834

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10282-10346

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-339235-1ST NR 220

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

09/30/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v91

HT 54464

179

DocId: 32302834

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

=5010-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

CLASSIFIED BY 5668560.

25X 0(6)

7/9R 426/90

TO

FROM

ASSIFY ON:

SUBJECT:

DEa

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-442715)(5)

SAC, CHICAGO 100-41353) 73)

-AD HOC COMMITTEE. FOR A

DATE: 9/30/65

INFORMATION CONTAINET

MARGARI:

IS

ATL

HEREIN

INCDET

OTHERUISE

Classified

Re Chicago airtel dated 7/23/65.

INFORATION SET FORTH HEREINKPERTAINING TO THE

AD HOC COMMITTEE MAY NOT BE SET FORTH IN ANY COMMUNICATION

WHICH MAY BE DISSEMINATED OUTSIDE THE BUREAU. IF NECESSARY,

PERTINENT INFORMATION MAY BE SET FORTH ON ADMINISTRATIVE

PAGES OF REPORTS.

Referenced airtel set forth the results offa

on July

20%%)

On September 23];

by these informants

again contacted

at which time a reguest was made for

that *LOMAN

to contribute

first contacted.

Pinpoially to lihe lad Hoc Committee when

LOMANT

this meeting, furnished $5.00 to the

informants

and

stated

that he was sorry that he was unable

to do more for them at this time since his finances were

short; however, he hoped

that he would be better able to

help them in the future.

Part oftle discussion during this meeting

concerned LOMAN' S

be better

outsidexthe Party

stated that he fly just received the most recent Hammer and

Steel" Bulletin

noted that HOMER BATES CHASE

fighting these

SISTE

dangers from a base outside Me

Communist

USAT

33$235-

NOT RECORDED

OCT 25 1965

12 0CT/22 1965.

4

- Chicago

(CHARLES LOMAN

A X134-1800 )S)

AX934-(310)S)

70 OCreS 9965

100-33

traints

NW 54464 DocId

32302834

Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

CG (100-41353 ](5)

It was explained to him by the informants

he Ad Hoc Committee Works from within the CP, USARSthaf

past history has shown that splinter groups have generally

raded from the scene; further,

that in order to make

the Ad Hoc Committee hust capture the heritage

land traditions of the CP, USAlut was explained that should

at some time in the future the Ad Hoc _Committee hembers

become expelled fromithe regular Partyruthat at that time,

even though the membership is small,

they would be willing

and able to undertake the principled fight against United

States imperialism

They noted th

Aứt that"

the Ad Hoc Committeel has differences

the Executive Committee of

the Ad Hoc Committee feels that they are making a contribution

to the fight for a Marxist-leninist Partyin this country.

valuable contribution on this question.

that no one has all the answers on the veero question aged

that we are not making any milateral claims to the solution

of this problem but rather are presentingthe thoughts of the

Ad Hoc Committee members in the Bulletin

order to invoke

comments and criticisms from our readers.

814)

XLOMAN noted that the recent activities of the

Progressive Labor Party (PLP) have left him with the

impression that this group was tending to be "too Trotskyite":

He stated that he was very concerned with this organization.

informants' only comments here were to the effect that

the Ad Hoc Committee

Thas no relationship with the PhP.

The contact between LOMAN and the informants was

extremely cordial and he invited them to return to his

home on any occasion so desired by them. He stated that he

would like to have them see his films on China, which he

felt they would enjoy..

He again stated that he had no

contacts in the Chicago area and was very pleased that

they would stop to see him. (a)l)

-2-

NW 54464 DooId:32302834 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 100-41353] (5)

It is apparent from the reception given to the

informants by LOMAN that

in the Ad Hoc Commttte he continues to be interested

as trusted Marxist-LennistaG further, there has form nts

indication since first contacted in July that LOMAN has

violated the security of our informants.(M)

In view of the fact that LOMAN has been in

contact of PLP, it is felt his remark concerning this organization

I that it is tending to become "too Trotskyite" is significant

VACB, infrequent contacts will be made with oMar

not only to promote finances for the Ad Hoc Committee but to

gain his trust and confidence to the extent that we will

be in a position to determine more information about his

relationship with the PLP and SUE FRANKC

*As his comment concerning the PLP is an indication

that FRANK may be disenchanted with this_ organization also,

at would be well for the Ad Hoc Commithesto continue to

requested to advise if there has

develop the confidence of LOMAN en any apparent change 1a

respect, New York 1s

SUE FRANK's association with the PLP.

Further, if available,

New York is requested to advise if FRANK continues to maintain

contacts with the same individuals as she had prior to July,

1965.

Chicago also requests any information relating to

FRANK's overseas travels, which had been contemplated during.

the July, 1965 period.

3

SECRE

- 1

NW 54464 DooId: 32302834

Page 4

---

