# docid-32140750

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot 01 1292 (1 USE 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORIV

AGENCY INFORMATION

•.. AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10062-10337

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 105-82555-2ND NR 5608

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: RCMP

FROM:

HIGGITT, W. L.

TO:

INNES, MOSS LEE

TITLE:

DATE: 09/12/1968

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LHO, BKG, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/02/1999

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

DocId: 32140750

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of' 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALL CORRESPONDENCE TO

BE ADDRESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ÊTRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA.

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

YOUR NO.

VOTRE

N°

OUR NO.

NOTRE N°

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

939-1-42-233

September 12, 1968

SECRET

Mr.

Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

The attachment is for your informetion end refers

to your letter dated May 31, 1968

concerning Ethelke

SURANYI.

Yours very truly,

THE FÖREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY. IT MAY BE DISSEMI-

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.

(Wol. Higgitt)

Assistant Commissioner,

Directors

Security and Intelligence.

ALL classifée lecret

kaless merted asherwise

ENCLOSURE

(105-825-555-7141

DocId: 32140750.

Page 2=

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

14214÷2017

on 27 hug 53, the rile subject was intervioved at her ione,

Apto 1, 191 Henderson Avenueg Ottawas

The intervier was conmenced

with a request that the file subjet, provide details of her bacleground.

to chis requesi, she supplied the rolloutne information:

Full lame:

Ethella SURAALL

Date of Birth:

13 Oct 1923

Place of Birth:

Zsarajon, hungary

20

Subject also provided the following background information:

a) 13-10-114:

Married Ist husband

Lajos VAJI. Soparated

from hin in Sep 1016.

No children born during

marriage with VAJI.

b)

had a boyfriend named (RNU)

PucT leavlag figst humband? (prosent age 19) was soon

son, Inre MOLlAR

through this relationship,

Imme MOLAR is presently in

his Ith year of study as a chemist. filo subject

communicates with him by mail

c) 1949-1951:

Resided with nonbers of her family at

Zsarajong Hungary

d) 1951-1956:

Resided in a rooning hougo in Budapest.

Employed at a Stote Brevery in Endapest.

e) Nov 1956:

Esceped from Budapest to Vienna in the compery

of &

Hungarian family fron Budapest.

(Unable

to recall names of those who escaped vith hor.)

Spent two weoks in a refugee camp in Vienna

where she not William MICSKO (

a Hungarian refugees)

Became pregnant during

Ilalson with MICSKO while at Vionna

Were takes

froi Vienna to Pasis,

Pay 17, 1957: Arrived at Edronton,

Alborta by air (polar

route)

from Pariso: Accompaniod by Willian MICSKO,

A fow montbs after arrivas in Canada

Joseph SURANYI GICSKO present ace 11

was

born. (Joseph presently residing with file

subjecto) File cubioct left MICSNO shortly

after arriving at Minonton when she learned

SECRET

that

MIOSKO already had

two wives in Budapesta

0006002

ENCLOSURE

ENCLOCURE

(05- 8255574)

DocId: 32140750 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the oohnor Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992(44 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE?" 11-14-2017

&) After leaving Micsko,

tho fild subject livod for a time

• Sandor, OZUPAK O

) a fricad of

NICKO* 50

CUTAN is che lathos of tho dila subjecta

daughter Susan (present ago epproza 9 feets)e

The 1110

subject clains that MIGRO and CaDiAl were in trouble

vich the authorities in Damondon Curing Aug 1957 whea

they organised a demonotzation agatastruhe Depactnent

ot innigration at Edmonton.

h)

Dec 1959:

Left OZUlAK abd proccodod to sackatoon whero

sho was undor the care of the Woldare Departments

Met Carl VARCA !:

) in Oot 1960 and

Lived with him entll Aps 1961a

VARGA

as the

father of sho fate subject's daughter trila

(born 1n 1962)=

1) Apr 1961:

Subject and her children loct Carl VARCA behind

at Saskatoon and moved to lilocabung, Oncario,

where they stayed with a relative,

Charles

TUKACS (

) 79 Vermont

avenue,

SECRET

Tillsonburge

#dow months later, VARGA found

out where bho subjdot vas and he

rejoined hors

They thon lived together at cos M, Cone 5, Itre

Middletony

30

the file subject was wien asked coreciate her story wien

4203.

She said that while obe

regara pass to yese tay 1957), che vao divon a sovere heating

Paris

by Williar: MICS10s She cloins chet Chroelochor zetugees withessed

this beating.

These witnessos tons Lacate SB0RDT (

Laszlo DCURGYORVICS (

and another man that

the: SoUrCe

clains

was Lee Farvey OSWALDe Sho clains thet che did not know

OSWALD'g Ilontity at the tine and that be wont by tro aickoanes

"call Lajos" and

"Red Lajos to

Chlo descrabed this non ao sauce pas

with a redlish complexion end chogt hair's According to tho filo

subject,

this nan vas aldo a derugod dron lungery and

he spoke

Hungarian.

The rile subject clajas, chat sacecor

DGOREVORVICS and

OstAlD flew Iron Paris to Domonton on ure some Light as hers on May

179 1957.

The file subject cining

shot che Saco sarr OSWALD et the

Welfare Office in Saskatoon, Sackey in. 1960 on 1961 and that he bod

on welfare at thot time. gho clotte that veile she vas

in Sastrotoon,

she heand that the

"big bos" was fri found

"She learned a shoot tima

Labor that the

"big boss" was Robert

The file subject seld that tho next bino sha. sau OSwALD

was at fillsonburgs

Ontario, 00cs 21, 1963e/ At that timog

OSWARD

stayed with Carl VARGA at Tiliconburse

Cor Done days

Acconding to

0080 03

DocId: 32140750 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 17-11-2017

the aile

VARGA and OStiALD purchased sone winter-clothing

6bo claims

that

OSALO and VARGA returned to Pillsonburg threo days after the

assassination of John 1e KEnors

SECRET

DocId: 32140750 Page 5

---

