# docid-32281884

## Page 1

Date: 08/15/92

Page: 1

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10044

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

D6-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : INDERFURTH, RICK

TO : THE RECORD

TITLE :

RE: INTERVIEW WITH THOMAS PARROTT

DATE : 05/23/75

PAGES : 7

SUBJECTS :

PARROTT, THOMAS

CIA

EISENHOWER

GRAY, GORDON

DULLES, ALLEN

THE KENNEDY PERIOD

BUNDY, MCGEORGE

BOWLES, CHESTER

BAY OF PIGS

TAYLOR, MAXWELL

OPERATION MONGOOSE

ASSASSINATION

CASTRO

HOOVER, J. EDGAR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/29/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 97

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 53244 DooId: 32281884

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SENSITIVE

INTERVIEW AND MEETING SUMMARY

page 1 of

Interview with Thomas Parrott

FILE:

Date:

Friday, May:'23, 1975

Time: 3:30 to 5:45

Place:

Carroll Arms

Participants: Thomas Parrott

INVENTORIED:

ON.

5/18/27

BY

Subject:

Sel Com: Rick Inderfurth, William Trueheart, and Daniel

O'Flaherty

NSC/CIA relations

Notes submitted by Rick Inderfurth

CAHAS NO OBJECT/ONTO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE DE THIS DOCUMENT

"AS SANITIZEN

19-4744

23.-2.988

Thomas Parrott/background.

Parrott joined the CIA in 1949 and was first assigned to the

Office of Policy Coordination (OPC). His entire service in the

Agency has been in the Clandestine Services. During the period

1950 through 1951, he was the CIA staff officer responsible to the

"designated representatives," the group that had been set up under

NCS-10/2 to review covert operations. He was Chief of Base in

Frankfurt, Germany unt11 late summer of 1957. At that time, he

was brought back to Washington to serve as a CIA staff officer on

duty to the Operations Coordinating Board. In this assignment, he

dealt primarily with covert operations. When the Special Group be-

gan its weekly meetings in January, 1959, Parrott was assigned to

be the full-time staff member for the Special Group. He was, how-

ever, still primarily an assistant to Allen Dulles. He remained in

this position until 1963, when he left to join the intelligence

community staff where he stayed until 1972. He is now retired and

living in Washington.

NW 53244 DooId: 32281884

Page 2

Zololer 97-9,

1X-E-2-1а-W

(Parrott)

---

