# docid-32292057

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10208-10333

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-98177-32

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DOJ

[Restricted]

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/05/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/17/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ, INC LTR

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32292057

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES GOVEENMENT

Memoranaam

*EPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

TO

: Director,

Federal

Bureau of

Investigation

J. Walter Yeagley

DATE:

New Yoek with August s 1967

routine slip for

a XeRox ces eNeL.

Internal Security Division

LOUIS HENRY JONES

SUBJECT: LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES

UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL TO CUBA

PFiS:ega

SECRET

Upon removal of en-

closure this memorandm

becomes unclassifien

08105-98176-

There is enclosed for the Bureau's information a copy

of correspondence we have recently transmitted to the Department

of State relative to the captioned matter.

AUG 1910KA66

REC- 97, 105-98177-35

10598177-

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

98176

• AUG

@ 1964

10

/ - ENCLOSURE

NAT.

SEC.

RECORDE

HH 54046

DocId: 32292057

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

August 5 1964

Be- Abbe P. Scinanta

Aandoletrator, Bureau of Beeurity

and Consular ARtadre

Departnost of State

reachington 25, D. C.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

MATE/S 94 55/8 MAde

Dear Mr. Schartzi

feterraco ta made to Trinced f. Intelt'a letter of Jonuary 21,

1969 reterzing for our concideration nimaries of intomstion coseerning

Loute Henry Jeho and Lenna Schupiter Joons tho traveled to Cube during

the Siring of 1961 in arparent violandon of 8 U.8.0. 1a8s(b).

Intoration witch hes been müe available to this Dirtston

indicates the Joregos departed the Undted States at Lavedo, Texas April 1,

1S62; and Sley from Mesico City to levons Mey 1, 396l. It ts our opinton

that da order to ansure @ cuechosful prosecution under the degarture vro-

visions of 3 U,8.6. 1185(b) the Goverment should introduce evlience inter

alta of the stendants inowledge at the tine he departed the Valted. States

of regulations veguiring be bear a valte passpict in Jeztoring bie conten-

plated travel, No direct evidence that the Joneses vere aware of existing

regulations When they departed the lotted States te 1961 has boon mrosented

do this case:

the United Stateo by way co Mexico and Canada.. After & ciry of a few weeke she

roturned to Cuba, apparently by the sone route. llo evsdence has been presented,

however, of the prected times and ploses of her re-intry or second departure.

In light of the above, to 10 our conclusten that prosecutton or the

Jongees le not warranted st this time.

The information made avattable falls

to replect the mubjecte have ritumed to the United States, Lookout notiees

SECRET

+0598177e

32

ENCLOSURE

NW 54046 DooId: 32292057 Page 3

---

## Page 4

_SECRET

= 2

are being zeguested

03 tho denigration ent Naturalization Service and in

the event the: Joneses chould retura they w1J1 te interviewed comerning

their travel to Cuba without outhorisotton. At that time we will re-eatne

these cocos to deterdne thnt further action should be taken relative to

prent violattons of Section 1185(b)-

Sinceraly.

J. VALUAR TRACTAY

Assistant Abbomey Ceneral

Internal Security Divaten

JOT H. DAVITT, Chief

Cratnal Section

SECRET

308-10213

NW 54046 DooId: 32292057

Page 4

---

