# docid-32289876

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10202-10152

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-591

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/02/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, ACT, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9 1

DocIA: 32289876

Page 1

215

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot

DATE: 11-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 1962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans ‹

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED

8+282 3544

PM

JLS

TO DIRECTOR, T91 192-31836

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192=373/

2P

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR DAILY SUMMARY.

FORMER CG SIX TWO SEVEN TWO DASH C ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT HE

RECENTLY MET WITH ALEX WHO EXERCISES SOME CONTROL OVER INFORMANT

SINCE THE INFORMANT IS A SPORTS HANDICAPPER OPERATING IN ALEX•S

DISTRICT, THE LOOP. ALEX AND INFORMANT HAVE BEEN KNOWN TO EACH OTHER

SINCE ALEX FIRST BECAME ASSOCIATED IN THE AFFAIRS OF ORGANIZED CRIME

MANY YEARS AGO.

ALEX QUESTIONED INFORMANT AS TO WHETHER HE WAS STILL BEING

INVESTIGATED BY SA WILLIAM ROEMER OF THIS OFFICE. WHEN INFORMANT

INDICATED AFFIRMATIVELY, ALEX CAUTIONED INFORMANT TO BE EXTREMELY

WARY OF SA ROEMER SINCE ROEMER IS QUOTE A NUMBER ONE CON ARTIST

FEELINGS AGAINST SA HORMON ANE LOOKIEN ANORANT THE SA TEE

UNQUOTE. HE ALSO INDICATED, ACCORDING TO. THE INFORMANT, PERSONAL

END PAGE ONE

81-108

HE6592-3183=5

10 AUG 3 1962

N-421

5 8 AUG 8

1962

DocId: 32289876 Page 2

---

