# docid-32309870

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10301-10136

HQ

2-1499-102

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54462 Date:

Document Information

10-04-2017

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1962

PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

FS, BKG, ASSOC, TRA, ACA, BOMBING, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

.4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32309870

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ED. 38 1F97: 12-13-58,1

10

GIA MAC MY MONOTIC

FBI

(i4 ler"*

KP

Transmit the following in

11-13-9

midt

Vid

7/16/1

sri

I- NY

Packers-nee

47 Carde

AIRTEL

LAIN TEXT

Date: 7/5/62

(Type in plain text or code);

REGISTERED MAIL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1499)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI

(2-192) 8P>

SUBJECT:

FRANK ANTHONY STÚRGIS,

aka. Frank Fiorint

RECK 65.

CC TO:.

REQ. REC'D

...

OCT 1 6 1963

Ortmis

NEUTRALITY MATTERS 121996

00: Miami

Classified by

Declassify of:

121144 5p8 mACISR

6-11-44 (JFK

Re Miami airtel to Bureau,

6/15/62; Miami teletype

Bureau, 6/20/62, and Miami teletype to Bureau, 7/3/62.

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies of letterhead

memorandum dated and captioned as

above.

Copies are being

/furnished to Jacksonville, Tampa, WFO and New York Offices

for information purposes.

BEC SEEIN 5648 SID /ISL

J. S. Customs, U.

s. Border Pat-9)

(JFIL)

CNA,

INS, and

FAA, Miami, have been furnished copies of this memprandum.

This memorandum 1s

classified "Confidential" to

protect the identity of MM T-1

and MM T-2, both of whom are

Informants of continuing value.

to: CIA/Side/15, D/4; D14 (Meyer,

ONT/OSI/ACSI Customs, IN'S

routing slip toy inio

COASt GUARd, FAA

Bureau (Enc.

9) (RM) (AM)

1

• New York (Enc.

1) (RM) (AM)

Jacksonville

(Enc.

1) (RM) (AM)

1

1

Tampa (Enc." 1) (RM) (AM)

- WFO (Enc. 1) (RM) (AM)

7 - Miami

11'0

[134-238A)] & (U)

REG- 65

97-302) (FAYCA)

(1

105-1598) (DIAZ

LANZ).

(1

105-3620) (DIAZ LANZ)

(1 = 92-404) (JOSEPH INDELICATO)

LLS: mgw

(13)

Sorose l

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

Confide

2-149

-100

APPROFRTOLE AT

ANCIES

A NO 19

ADVISEAL

Casse

DATE

SEC.

CLASSIFIED

EXTENCED

REASERT

FCIM, 11,

DATE QIM.: Per -

10 DECLASSIFICATION..

. д

NW 54462 DooId: 32309870

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-192

Confide

n1a1

CORNFNOEPTIAR

MM T-1 Is MM 819-C*.

STAFFORD, JI. 1

A T=2 18fm 639-S contacted by SA LIMAN I. A (Ul)

Miani is maintaining close liaison with other

federal agencies in following subject's activities in

the revolutionary field.

ME. JACK NEELY, Covert CIA

representative, Miami, Florida, and a former Bureau

interest in subject, is not sponsoring him In any way

and Mr. NEELY said he felt certain that if subject was

being sponsored by New York or any of their other

offices he would have been informed at Miami.

NEELY

did not rule out the possibility that subject's activi-

ties might be sponsored

In some way by either the U. S.

Navy or U. S. Army.

REQUEST OF BUREAU

Bureau is requested to contact the Department

of Defense through

appropriate liaison and attempt to

determine if subject is being sponsored by any of the

military organizations. This action is requested only

if Bureau's inquiry of CIA, Washington, D. C., should

prove unproductive, it being noted that New York in its

airtel dated 6/22/62 had requested the Bureau contact

that agency and attempt to determine the full extent of

CIA/ utilization of subject's group,as alleged by ALEXANDER

I,KORKE, JT., Intervlawed by New York On 6/22/62.7 CLu)

Miami at Miami, Florida, will through informants

and other appropriate investigation obtain further infor-

mation concerning subject's plans and activities and will

keep the Bureau promptly advised of pertinent details.

The leaflets set out in enclosed memorandum

were translated from the Spanish language by Translator

SOPHIE Y. SALIBA, Miami, Florida.

Confid

ntial

HH

54462 DooId: 32309870 Page 3

---

