# docid-32301314

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10149

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-309

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/23/1968

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/08/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, S/S, TRANS FROM FRENCH

y9.1

DocId: 32301314

108

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MÃy 1902

SA FAR. 14

-.=11.6

UNITED STATES "OVERNMENT

Memorendum

TO

SECRED

#490381

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235)

LEGAT, PARIS

(100-2020) (RUC)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

(00 - NY)

DATE:

9/23/68

AT.T, INFORVATTON CONTATNEr

IACSIFIED

SUBJECT

OTHERWISE

4/25/94

Classified iy SpEmarka

Declassiv en DAD: Ji)

Remylet 9/12/68.

On 9/20/68 the Service de Documentation

Exterieure et de Contre-Espionnage (SDECE) furnished

a two-page report in the French language concerning

subject's activities while in Paris.

In addition,

the

SDECE furnished a photo copy of the contents of subject's

address book for a very brief period and that due to the

delicate circumstances involved, some,

Of the pages photo-

graphed had not come out too well.

Bureau requested to have the report translated

and the results of the translation,

together with the

photo copy of the address book furnished New York.

copy of the translation should also

A

be furnished to Legats

London and Paris for information.

In the event any additional information is re-

ceived from our sources

Bureau and interested offices will

be advised.

3010-108-1

XL SC

4

Bureau

ENCLOSURE

2)

(1 - Llaison Section)

EX-103

i Legat, Hondoney

(1 - New York, 100-42479, Info.)

(Info.) (sent direct)

-†Paris

VVK: VW

QC1

REC-35 GO TEN VIA

WECEIED

COPY-AND-SPECT ENS RETAINED IN LAB VILEX

FOR LAB. ACTION AND REPORT

OCT 818 1968

BEC

CRED

195g sings Bands Results on the Parall Savings Plan,

00

309

DocId: 32301314

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatiqn Records COllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 1E-14-2017

..1=

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235)

LEGAT, PARIS

(100-2020)

(RUC)

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

(00 - NY)

9/23/68

AT.L, INTORMATION CONTAINED

FERDIN" D UROLESSITTED

EXCEPT NOCKE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Remylet 9/12/68.

On 9/20/68 the Service de Documentation

Exterieure et de Contre-Espionnage (SDECE) furnished

a two-page report in the French language concerning

subject's activities while in Paris.

In addition, the

SDECE furnished

a photo copy of the contents of subject's

address book for a very brief period and that due to.

delicate circumstances involved, some of the pages photo-

graphed had not come out too well. G)

Bureau requested to have the report translated

and the results of the translation,

together with

the

photo copy of the address book furnished New York.

copy of the translation should also be furnished to Legats

London and Paris for information. S)

ceived from our sources

be advised.

Bureau and interested offices

LETTER TO

NEW YORKWI

EnclosurEs (6)

(TRNSIS-AFLM

/ RElET

4 - Bureau (Enc. 2)

(1 - Liaison Section)

I - New York, 100-42479, Info.)

Legat, London

(Info.) (sent direct)

1 - Paris

VVK: vw

(6)

4/25/81

Classified by SPamse/ace

SCREU

DocId: 32301314 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-1447942V-2-18-631

SECRET

1

CHER

be cobet

• 4, 1906

ATT.

* INT

ELVISE

SAC, Now York (100(2479)

Director, FBI (100-339835) - 309

SUSAN ANILICHAN FRAUS

REGISTERED MAGI

"/25/94

Spamarpa

1968

OCT4 -

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivat

T'avel

Trotter -

T'ele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

COMM-FBI

10239

Attached is the translation which

requested by letter

dated

0/33/60, copy herewith.

The contents thereof, where pertinent, must be reported

under appropriate captions and

afforded whatever investigative

attention is necessary.

Disposition of the foreign language material submitted in

this connection is set forth below:

Forwarded

horowith. Also being towarded i0 photocopy

addrese

book.

1

* London - Enclosure

Parts

(100-3020) #

Anclosure

1 = Mr.

Sullivan (Attn:

Nationalities Intelligence Section), sent

direct with enclosure.

- Foreign Liaison Unit,

sent direct without enclosure.

Enc.

MLM:cjs.e

(7)

DocId: 32301314

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

DATE: 11-11-2017

under the MohirT. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2100 Hote).

CONFIDENTIAL

(Translator's Note:

TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH

DEFENSE

This indication appears, stamped in large

letters, on the top and at the bottom of

each page of the original text.

September 20, 1968

No. 178

(S)

MEMORANDUY

Subject:

Susan Heiligman Frank

Reference: Your V • 4647 dated August 7, 1968

- ALFIED

M& SHOWN

Your request and the interest that your service has

in this matter have been given our full attention (S)

The facts that Susan Heilignan Frank was in France

and that the S. N. (sic - Securite Nationale /?/ - National

Security) was

alerted

on this same subject (since it is under

the jurisdiction of the S. N.) have limited our possibilities

of action.

Nevertheless, we

are happy to be able to forward

to you the following information which we have gathered:

i Susan Heiligman, Frank, called Susan Warren,

seems

to be a propagator of

People's (Red) China;

i she

receives the

information bulletingoalled "Hsin

Hua" ("New China") which is published by the agency

ORALANI SE

bearing the same

name in London;

- she is a journalist specialized in questions

concerning the far

East;

124-3

3/x55.309

, TRANSLATED BY:

MAX L. MIUSHKOVICH: CiSiCK

ENCLOSURD

H/as/gen

Graceteen to

SPBMAL/GEL

FORF

DocId: 32301314 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection

DATE: 11-14-2017

F0D619

She lived on the mainland of China from 1960 to 1962;

as Professor of the Free University of New York,

she

made many public lectures concerning the Chinese

Cultural Revolution and the Red Guards;

- she is in contact with uttam Howard Hinton, who

resides at fleetwood Pennsylvania, and

who was

the subject of your letter V 4549 dated April 23,

1968;

among the persons whom Susan Warren intended to visit

in Paris were the following individuals:

Helene Marchisie, member of the Franco-Chinese

Association of Friendship (Association des Amities

Franco-Chinoises), domiciliated at 32 rue (Street)

Maurice Ripoche,

Parts.

14; IRRACE

Bolden, living at the Hotel de Suede, 15 Qual

Saint-Michel, Paris, 5; FRANCE

erdita Huston Champey, American citizen, spouse of

French student of medicine, domiciliated at 3 rue

d'Alleray

Parise 15;

and

FRANCE

Dieffouli Naceur, living at 52 rue Gay-Lyssac, Paris,

FRANCE

Susan warren stayed at the dotel lutetia le garde

•from

Bugust? to August 8, 1965, uken she lott for kondon.

In London,

she was supposed to visit

an

Ixagul, who lives at 40 Peckarmans Wood, Crescent Wood Road,

ondon SA = 26.

ENGLAND

In addition, we are forwarding herewith the copy of

a photo of the address booklet of Susan Warren which we had in

hands for a very brief period of time. We apologize for this (s)

- 2 - CREM

DocId: 32301314 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Refeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ОДТЕ: 11-14-2017

bad photo whose poor quality is due to the delicate circumstances

under which it was taken. (S)

Translator's Note:

_The above-mentioned address booklet is written

English.)()

SECRET

- 3 -

DocId: 32301314 Page 7

---

