# docid-32292227

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-320

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/26/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, B/F INT, GAMBLING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32292227

344

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992: 44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

_ Mr. Belmont.

I'Mr. Mohr-

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Callahan

StP 2V61961

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoache

Mr. Evans.

Mir. Malone.l

Mr. Rosen

DEFERRED

9-26-61

9-14

PM

an. Sullivan.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram.

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731

Miss Gandy.

GUS ALEX, AKAOS AR. DAILY SUMMARY, SANDY SMITH, CRIME REPORTER TOR

THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE, HAS ADVISED THAT GUS ALEX IS ONE OF THE CHICAGO

AREA HOODLUMS WHO INVESTED SEVERAL THOUSAND DOLLARS DAILY IN THE BANK-

ROLL OF THE J AND J PICNIC GROVE, A GAMBLING JOINT IN WILL COUNTY,

ILLINOIS, WHICH IS THE LOCATION OF THE BIG GAME IN THE CHICAGO AREA,

HE SAID ALEX RECEIVES A CUT FROM THE DAILY TAKE OF THIS OPERATION. .

THIS TENDS TO CONFIRM INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM CG SIX FOUR FOUR .

THREE DASH C THAT THE J AND J PICNIC GROVE IS THE LOCATION OF THE BIG

GAME FOR THE CHICAGO AREA AND IS

OPERATED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF

LESLIE KRUSE BY GUS LEIBE. INFORMANT ALSO HAS ADVISED THAT ALEX HAS

A PIECE OF THE OPERATION AT THE J AND S PICNIC GROVE. ALEX ARMED END

DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END AND ACK PLS

1086 PM OK FBI WA WS

92-3182

REC- 4

6 SEP 28 1961

::to ended':

JGLITew

DocId: 32292227

Page 2

---

