# docid-32307124

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10264

~ RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4546-1ST NR 21

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/24/1963

2

MR, BKG, EMP, AFFIL, JURE, EXECUTIVE BOARD, ASSOC,

LEADERS, AV, ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32307124

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-109

MAY IOGZ EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

ARNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4133)

SECRET

TO

DATE:

12/24/63

FROM

SUBJECT:

APPROPRI

AND FOFID

ADVISED

STIP (S)

4ГЕ

105- 14543054MES

MOVIMIENIO RECUPERACION REVOLUGIONARIO 97-4546 (RAG

(MRR)

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Classified by S/8 BTF/cl

CAS

HIG

Beclassity on: BADR 4/26/84

Re Minneapolis letter to the Bureau dated 11/21/63.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

=18

On 12/13/63,.

Miami, Florida, advised that he

CARLOS ZARRAGA, 2954 Southwest 16th Terrace

is the

head of military action forM

MV THIS DOCUMENT.

the anti-CASTRO organization known as JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA ro:

(JURE) •

This organization is governed by an Executive Board,

consisting of five members.

Three of the members are in Puerto

Rico and two are in the United States. One of the members on

this Board is MANUEL

RAY.

ZARRAGA advised that after the overthrow of the BATISTA

Government on 1/1/59, RAY was appointed Minister of Public

Works in Cuba. He started conspiring against the FIDEL CASTRO

Government in Cuba, became an underground leader, and was

the

last important underground leader to leave Cuba.

This was in

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS

EXCZET

OTHE

about 1960.

When RAY arrived in the United States he was one of

the leading factors in the MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(MRP). RAY became a highly controversial figure and is generally

considered a leftist or a communist by the majority of Cuban

exiles in Miami. RAY was expelled from the MRP. RAY continues

to xeside in San Juan, Puerto Rico, is a Civil Engineer, and is

employed by the Puerto Rican Government. He started a new

political organization, JURE, and this organization is rapidly

fising in significance and importance.

Cuban exiles claim that

RAY has a strong support of Governor MUNOS MARIN of Puerto Rico

and is favorably considered by the State Department. RAY has always

received a considerable amount of favorable publicity out of

codetto ta the importance of his group in the cuban gele

Bureau (RM)

• Minneapolis

(2-26) (RM)

TREG- 50

NOT RECORDED

98

JAN 6 1864DEC 26 1963

- RJD: bam

(6)

SERRET

CONFIDYNTIAL

NATMINT. SEC!

ORIGINAL FILED

NH 54046 DocId: 32307124

Page 2

---

