# docid-32246421

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/1/201

Released under the John

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10074-10479

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 009916

¢44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

GRIFFIN, WILL HAYDEN

DATE: 03/14/1978

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES

FBI; METHODOLOGY

GRIFFIN, WILL HAYDEN; INTERVIEW

OSWALD, MARINA; STATEMENTS; INTERVIEWS

JENKINS, WALTER

OSWAL, LEE HARVEY; POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD; POLTICAL

AND ....

JENKINS, BILL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/20/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 183.

v9.1

HH, 34756

DocId: 32246421

Page 1

---

## Page 2

009916

KENNEDY

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1. Identifying Information:

Name Will Hayden Griffin

Address 3744 Cripple Creek Dr.

City/State Dallas, Texas 75224

Date of Birth 3/19/14

Social Security 439-12-4667

Date 3/14/78

Place Mercantile Blag.

Telephone: 214-337-7440

MOr S

Spouse

Children

Rm. 1835

2. Physical Description:

Height

Weight

Ethnic Group

Color Eyes

Hair

Special Characteristics

3. Personal History:

a.

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

b. Criminal Record

1. Arrests

2.

Convictions

4.

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name.

Address

b. Area frequented:

c. Remarks:

Investigator

HH 54756 DocId:32246421 Pareate

Narald Whe ak

35=>8

Form #4-B

---

## Page 3

KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Will Hayden Griffin

Address 3744 Cripple Greek Dr.

Date_

3/14/78

Time 10 A.M

Place

Mercantile Bldg.

Dallas, texas 75224

Interview:

On 3/14/78 Staff Investigator Harold D: Leạp

interviewed Will Hayden Griffin, former FBI Special

Agent stationed in Dallas, Texas from 1958 to Dec: 30,

1977 relative to the SCA investigation of the JFK

assassination.

Griffin advised that he had never met or saw LHO,

however he had interviewed Marina Oswald on several

occasions after the assassination.

Leap asked Griffinifhe was aware that he was

alleged to have stated that Oswald was an FBI informant.

Griffin stated that he was aware of the allegation and

had been

questioned by the Bureau concerning the accusations

of

Walter Jenkins. Griffin said there was no truth to

the accusations and did not know where Walter Jenkins got

the information. He said he knew the information did not

come from Walter Jenkins' brother Bill, who is a FBI agent

in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Leap asked Griffin if he was censored as a result

of the Bureau investigation of the allegations. Griffin

Interviewer

Narald N

hiat

(Signature)

Harold D. Leap

(Name)

Date Transcribed

•4/25-178

by

CS

(Ini

54756 DocId:32246421 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Interview: W.H. Griffin

2

advised that he was not censored. He went on

to

explain that he had been censored on several occasions

however none were related to the Oswald investigation.

54756

DooId: 32246421

Page

---

