# docid-32404179

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

104-10331-10049

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

THE RECORD

MEMO: CARLOS

12/09/1994

2

TEPEDINO

SUBJECTS

:

JEK ASSASSINATION

JFK DOCUMENT

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Recorda

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

• 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

04/23/03

JEK-M-16 : F3: 2000.02.08.09:54:43: 250035°

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10049

HH 53217 DocId: 32404179 Page 1

---

## Page 2

HRG

INTERNAL USE ONLY

9 December 1994

Memo for the Record

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

Subject: Carlos Tepedino

RELEASE IN FULL

/ 2000

1. The confusion over release of Tepedino name and

relationship with Agency resulted from a failure to update

guidelines after the release of his name in the IG report.

The guidelines developed during the re-review of the Denied

in Full documents (release Tepedino when linked to Cubela;

protect in other situations) were not incorporated into the

written guidelines.

As a result the reviewers who came on

board in the Fall 93 to review the Microfilm continued to

deleted his name in all cases.

Background:

• Tepedino's name and relationship with Cubela and the

Agency appeared in a 1966 Washington Star Article

(attached) .

• In response to an HSCA request, his Security File was

made available to HSCA staffers and became part of the

JFK collection.

• In August 1993, documents from his Security File were

sanitized and released to NARA.

This release reflected

the guidelines agreed on by HRG, DO and OS for reviewing

OS files:

Existence of an Agency file does not confirm an

official relationship with the Agency; if the

individual

was of logical interest to the Agency

(Tepedino is Cuban and had contacts in the Castro

governments) and was involved in the assassination

story, documents showing agency interest could be

sanitized and released as long as they did not

officially confirm agency relationship.

• In October 1993, the 1967 IG Report on Anti-Castro

activities was released to NARA.

Tepedino's name was

inadvertently released in the section dealing with

Cubela's first contact with the Agency (page attached) .

The IG report in effect confirmed the 1966 newspaper

article and that the released OS documents reflected a

"relationship" with the CIA in the same time frame

addressed by the IG report.i

INTERNAL USE ONLY

NW 53217 DocId:32404179 Page 2

---

## Page 3

HRG

INTERNAL USE ONLY

• During the review of the Denied in Full documents in

January 1994, Five documents on Tepedino were re-

reviewed. Given what had been previously released,

these documents were no longer fully protectable under

the JFK Act

All were within the JFK relevant time

frame and four deal specifically with his relationship

with the Agency at the time of the "Cubela operation".

NOTE:

The OS file is poorly sanitized, and clearly releases

more than intended by the guidelines:

Tepedino's name

and alais appear on the iden aid; operational

approval/use as an agent is acknowledged; references to

contact outside the time frame are released; forms aren

not redacted according to guidelines.

Bany

INTERNAL USE ONLY,

33217

Doc1d: 32404179

Page 3

---

