# docid-32330715

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10146

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-2770-4

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45863 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DI

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/18/1969

PAGES:

42

SUBJECTS:

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

RUSSELL MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 45863

24

DooId: 32330715

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICEOF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

EARL MILTON ALKEK,

EDWARD WILLIAM

"ALKEK ;

DATE

4/18/69

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/3 - 4/18/69

WILLIAM NOBLE BATES;

SAM BENSON aka/

James Earl West;

RICHARD CARL BIGGS aka

ITWI - CONSPIRACY;

ITAR - GAMBLING

(Continued on Cover Page B)

СРА, В, С, А

REFERENCE:

allas letter to Bureau dated 12/24/68,

"BOOKMAKERS - TEXAS, ITWI - CONSPIRACY".

"p.

TYPED BY

pw

LEADS

EL PASO - INFORMATION

Copy furnished El Paso for its information and also with

regard to El Paso informant EP 583-C. El Paso should consider res

evaluation of its position with regard to this informant noting

that he is in contact with a number of the subjects in this case

and consider whether he should be investigated as a' member of this

group or more desirable the need to develop him fully as an infor

mant on this group. In contact with this informant, do not discuss

the overall conspiracy approach of this case.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

[X NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

FINES

SAVINGS

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSÉ CU TION

OVER SIX MONTHS

I NO

MEE LINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW-

3

1

3

2

Bureau (165-2770)

USA, Fort Worth

- El Paso (Info)

-

Houston (1 - USA)

New Orleans (Info)

Oklahoma City

(Info)

San Antonio (1 - USA)

-

Dallas

(165-346)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

COPIES FOR CA 5 + 2770-4

2/23/78

МCT-29

REC 27-1

ErE APR 21 1969

Вам

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

36 APR 2 8 1969

CC, AAG, Criminal

Division,

Organized

Room

Crime & Racketeering Section

COVER PAGE

NW 45863 DooId: 32330715

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 166 - 102

HJE: pw

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS aka;

JOSEPH SOPHIE GEBRON aka

It should be noted that substantial informant

information has been provided by a number of Dallas Office

informants as to MATTHEWS and GEBRON, and in view of the

lengthy details of same it is not being set out here. The

following information relating to interstate violation as

furnished by Oklahoma City informant is being set out as

follows:

OC 549-PC furnished the following information to

SA HOWARD CECIL:

Informant explained that he, a bookmaker, was

engaged during the past football season, 1967, and

part of

the basketball season following, with GEORGE EDWARD BARNES

at the Penn Club in Logan County, Oklahoma, just outside

the city limits of Oklahoma City.

FRANCIS LEROY WILLS aka

"Nip" was employed for a while by BARNES as a collector but

was fired by BARNES when WILLS showed up drunk for work,

BARNES is & known acquaintance of R. D. MATTHEWS.

On 1/19/68,

informant advised SA CECIL he and

Wills formerly called R. D. MATTHEWS in Garland, Texas,

every other day for line information; however,

informant

has not contacted MATTHEWS since MATTHEWS® book was raided :

in October, 1967, (9/29/67).

On 2/15/68, informant advised SA CECIL that

MATTHEWS reportedly gets his line information from Las

Vegas, Nevada, for $250 per week.

MATTHEWS once told

informant he was angry because he had been furnished

"upside down" line by the Las Vegas source

and lost money

because

the odds were wrong.

On 4/5/68,

informant advised SA CECIL that

"NIP" WILLS (FRANCIS LEROY WILLS) and JOE ELLIS VAN SCOY

were both engaged in the bookie operation of GEORGE

EDWARD BARNES during the 1967 football season.

. BARNES

furnished both with a telephone number in Texas where

they were to call MATTHEWS for the latest line.

Thereafter, either WILLS or VAN SCOY called MATTHEWS,

2c22"

COVER PAGE

NW 45863 DooId: 32330715 Page 3

---

