# docid-32345417

## Page 1

Date:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

11/30/04

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10059-10041

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released

under the John

Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-07-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

BROWN, JERRY, CIA/SAG

TO

: CIA/CHIEF,

TITLE

: MEMO RE AN ARTICLE IN THE NEW YORK TIMES OF A BAHAMA

GAMBLING GROUP THAT LINK RESORTS INTERNATIONAL,

DATE

PAGES

08/18/1976

2

SUBJECTS

: NEW YORK TIMES

BAHAMAS

GAMBLING

MEDIA REPORT

RESORTS

INTERNA

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

07/08/93

COMMENTS

: JFK8: F1: 1993.07.08.16:14:01:460520

DELETIONS

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10059-10041

HH 53199

DocId: 32315417 Page

---

## Page 2

18 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT

:

Resorts

• #591 722

International, Inc.

1. Attached to instant memorandum is an article from

the 15 August 1976 edition of the New York Times captioned.

"Bahama Gambling Group Considers Las Vegas-Type Casinos in

Atlantic City."

The article states that the corporation

behind this venture is Resorts International, Inc.

article also reflects that Resorts International, Inc., was

formerly the Mary Carter Paint Company.

Also attached to this memorandum is an extract from

the 1969 book,

"The Grim Reapers" which links the Mary Carter

Paint Company

to the gambling activities of the organized

crime boss Meyer LANSKY.

The extract also links Meyer LANSKY

to Santo TRAFFICANTE..

Additional information in the book,

not attached,

reflects that Santo TRAFFICANTE waS Meyer

LANSKY'S

gambling czar in pre-Castro Cuba.

Resorts International,

Inc., is the Subject of os

file #591 722.

This file reflects

that Resorts International,

Inc., was of interest to Cover and Commercial Staff, DDO, In.

1972 and 1973. No other details are available.

The Wallace GROVES,

mentioned in the attachments as

connected with Meyer LANSKY and the Mary Carter Paint

Co./Resorts International, Inc.,

is identical with the Wallace

GROVES who is the Subject

of OS file. #473 865.

This file re-

flects that from April 1966 to April 1972, GROVES was,

of in-

terest to the Office of the General Counsel for the utiliza-

tion of GROVES as an advisor or possible officer of one of

the Project WUMUTUAL entities.: Additional information in this

file would suggest that GROVES was connected with Meyer LANSKY.

The file also reflects that in March 1975, Cover and Commercial

Staff was somehow involved with two individuals connected with

a corporation owned by GROVES,

the Grand Bahama Development

Corporation, Albert WHISNANT (#633 974) and John P. ROULETT

| (#639 997).

for file

SUva GiANCAMA

May monfront.

GORFIDENTIAL

EZIMPDET

CL BY 063994

03642

13199

---

## Page 3

5.

The Robert D. PELOQUIN mentioned in the news article

as being the head of a Resorts International subisidiary,

identical with Robert D. PELOQUIN (#624 168).: However,

is

the

file reflects that in 1970, PELOQUIN was a Vice President of

Resorts International, Inc. The file further shows that

PELOQUIN was formerly

as such

engaged by the Hughes Tool Company to conduct a sweeping invest-

igation into the affairs and past activities of Robert A.

MAHEU. MAHEU, as you are aware figures for assassination

introduction

was used by this Agency for

to organized crime

planning directed at Fidel CASTRO in the early 1960's.: Also.

as you are aware, the MAHEU/organized crime contact eventual]v

led

to the above mentioned Santo TRAFFICANTE.

As you are aware,

the Senate Select Committee

the deliberation of that body into the activities

of this

during

evidenced interest in the Mary Carter Paint Co.

Robert D. PELOQUIN, INTERTEL, Santo TRAFFICANTE and Robert A

MAHEU.

7.

as the attachments, be brought to the attention of

the one to sea tention ot to beneral

Counsel and the Cover and Commercial Staff.

Jerry G. Brown

Deputy Chief

Security Analysis Group

Atts:

JGB :hjd

As stated (Original only)

CONFIBENTIAL

NH 53199 DoLd: 32345417 Page 3

---

