# docid-32298491

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 9-57631-1ST NR 9, 2ND NR 9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/1974

PAGES :

7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

SUBJECTS :

MAB, INTV, MARQUEZ, GUILLERMO MARTINEZ, ASSA, REL,

THREATS, TELCAL, LTR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW : 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY

y9.1

14 54463

DocId: 32298191

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AssoC.

Kir.

FEDERAR BUREAU DE INVESTICKTISIO

COMMUNICATIONS SECHION

Dep.-A.J.-Adia

Dep.-A.D.-In7.9

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

MAY 231974

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Aftairs

NRBQ1 MM CODE

Files & Com.

95PAM URGÉNT MAY 23, 1974 CLS

TELEYPS

Gon. Inv.--

CLASS.

Insgection

TO DIRECTOR 105-261797

REASON-FCIN

ATTN: FBI LABORATORY; INTERNAL SECURITY DIVISION;

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

SAN JUAN 9-990 "VIA WASHINGTON

FROM MIAMI 185-22094 MR

3P

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm

Director Sac'y

APPROPRIA

AND FIEnD e

ADVISED BY

AGENC

ING

DATE

CONFIDE

ZERO AN ORGANIZATION), IS - CUBA; EXTORTION +105+761791

UNSUB; AKA "ZERO"; JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU; TOMAS GARCIA

FUSTE; ET AL - VICTIMS, EXTORTION.

19-57631

place in or if 3751

Chain" pret Genesi

120105-26187

19057431

RE MIAMI AIRTELS (2), MAY

21,

1574. U

ON MAY 21, 1974, MM 155D-KS, WHO IS PERSONALLY ACQUAINTEE

AND IN FREQUENT CONTACT WITH LUIS NORBERTO TORNES GARCIA, AKA,

LUIS TORNES, FBI NO. 107 171E, PUBLISHER OF "IMPACTO", WHICH

CEASED PUBLICATION 2 OR 3 MONTHS AGO MIAMI, REPORTED THAT LAS

FRIDAY TORNES ADMITTED TO HIM THAT HE HAD SENT

"ZERO"

51631-

THREATENING LETTERS TO A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS, INCLUDING

GARCIA FUSTE AND MAX LESNICK•

(u)

NOT RECORDED

END PAGE ONE

183 JUL

1974

ORIG

TOM

IPPROPRIATE

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BY ROUT

STIRS FO

DATE

137

ALL INFORMATIONI CONTAINED

ASSIFIED R

129 30-94

DS MEE ISL

TELETPED

Exemp§from GDS,

Date of Declassification

DECLASSIFIED BY

ON

3/28/84

6-1-92

NH 54463

Doc1d: 32298491

Page 2

9803

ROD/ISRE CiN 334,957 -

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO (105-22094) #ONEIDE

TAL

TORNES ALSO DISCLOSED THAT FERNANDO CARRANDI, WHO OPERATES

THE AIP PRINTING SHOP, BEACOM BLVD., MIAMI, COLLABORATED WITH

TORNES IN THE PREPARATION OF THESE "ZERO" LETTERS.

(4)

BECAUSE OF COMMENTS MADE BY TORNES, MM 1550-KS RECEIVED

THE IMPRESSION THAT TURNES WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THE MAY: 13, 1974

BOMBING OF LESNICK'S CIFICE AT REPLICA PUBLISHING CO.

d(41

TORNES ALSO STATEL THAT IT IS NECESSARY FOR HIM TO CONTINUE

WITH THE CAMPAIGN OF SENDING OUT THREATENING LETTERS, BUT HE

DID NOT DISCLOSE THE IDENTITIES OF ANY ADDITIONAL VICTIMS.

&41

MM 155D-KS SAID TAI CARRANDI, ACCORDING TO TORNES, HATES

LESNICK.

MIAMI FILES REFLECT THAT FERNANDO JESUS CARRANDI VALDEZ,

AKA, FERNANDO CARRANDI, WAS BORN MAY 18, 1925 AT SANTA CLARA,

LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, CUBA, ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A 12 410 957,

HAVING ARRIVED IN U.S, IN 1961. HE HAS BEEN EMPLOYED BY A

NUMBER OF PUBLICATICNS DURING THE PERIOD FROM 1962 IO 1978.

INFORMATION IN RE AIRTELS REFLECTS THAT TORNES HAD A

CONTACT IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO WHO DISTRIBUTED COPIES OF

"IMPACTO" FOR TORNES.

WITH RESPECT TO THE EXTORTION LETTER RECEIVED BY "EL MUNDO"

END PAGE TWO

NH 54463 DocId: 32298491

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE (105-22094> 00N

TAL

SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO, POSTMARKED APRIL 30, 1974, SAN JUAN,

MM 1550-KS SUSPECTS THAT TORNES MAY HAVE ENCLOSED THIS LETTER

IN AN ENVELOPE ADDRESSED TO HIS SAN JUAN DISTRIBUTOR FOR

REMAILING IN SAN JUAN.

(4)

SAN JUAN IS REQUESTED IO EXEPDITE INVESTIGATION REQUESTED

IN MIAMI AIRTELS, MAY 21, 1974, WITH SPECIFIC EMPHASIS ON

ASCERTAINING IDENTITY OF THE "IMPACTO" NEWSPAPER DISTRIBUTOR TO

WHOM TORNES SENT AS MANY AS 15,000 COPIES ON ENCH OCCASION FOR

DISTRIBUTION. IF THIS INDIVIDUAL'S IDENTITY IS ESTABLISHED,

OBTAIN NECESSARY IDENTIFYING DATA AND REQUEST TBI LABORATORY

TO COMPARE HIS FINGERPRINTS WITH ANY LATENTS DEVELOPED ON

"ZERO" LETIERS SUEMITTED TO THE LABORATORY BY SON JUAN AND MIAMI. /LI)

SAN JUAN ALSO REQUESTED TO SEND MIAMI AS SOON AS POSSIBLE

XEROX COPY OF "ZERO" LETTER AND ENVELOPE RECEIVID BY "EL MUNDO"

FOR INVESTIGATIVE PURPOSES MIAMI.

FBI LABORATORY IS REQUESTED TO COMPARE FINGERPRINTS. OF

FERNANDO JESUS CARRANDI VALDEZ, BORN MAY 10, 1925, CUBA, WITH

ANY LATENTS DEVELOPED ON "ZERO" LETTERS SUBMITTED BY SAN JUAN AND MIAMI.

INVESTIGATION CONTINUING •

CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL TO PROTECT MA 1558 X8 (88)(4)

END

AMW FBIHQ

R RELAY

00-6,1

NW 54463 DooId: 32298491 Page 4

---

