# docid-32317813

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10355-10016

RECORD SERIES : PH

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-441-A-36

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PH

TỌ: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/27/1964

2

RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

, RESTRICTIONS:

.4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317813

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-19-2011

"*..

8/27/64

AIR T

'E L

REGISTERED MAIL

TO:

Director, FBI

(92-2839)

FROM: SAC, Philadelphia (92-441 Sub A)

RUSSELE A. BUFALINO, aka

JUNE

ReBuairtel 8/25/64 requesting Phila, to advise

the Bureau by return communication precautions taken to

insure that PH 701-c* is not compromised.

As the Bureau is aware,

FH 701-C* was installed

utiligingan altered

telephone instrument.

Ihis instrument

affords the best security available in this type of 1n-

stallation:

BUFALINO as is known fron previous information

furnished by PH 623-0* 1s suspicious of any telephone

instrument.

For example, he has advised PH 665-0-TE to

be extremely cautioue in using the telephone and not

necessarily the telephone involved with PH 701-C*.

does, however,

even after cautioning PH 665-0-TE, talk

freely with this informant.

BUFALINO made the comment that he thought his

telephone was tapped during a telephone conversation.

It

appears, therefore, that BUFALINO 1s not suspicious of

coverage being afforded by PH 701-C* but is suspicious

of telephones being

"tapped."

Resident Agents in Wilkes-Barre have previously

been advised and were again reminded on 8/26/64 to be

alert for any information that might develop which would

indicate that this source had been compromised

Enployees

handling the

Central Plant in regard to PH 701-g* were

again on 8/26/64 reminded to be alert for this type of

information.

This is standard procedure but has been re-

Bureau - RM

479225

92-441-1at9-36

Phila,

JRP: ERG

rahed

lized

ad

(4)

DocId: 32317813 Page 2

---

