# docid-32139865

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 144 USC 2197 Mate)

DATE: 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10060-10381

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-4877, 4878

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OT

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/11/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-3125

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Unclassified

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

02/26/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LTR

DocId: 32139865

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Legat, Ottava (163-364)

1-1-68

Director, FBI (105-82555)

LEE HARVET OSWALD

1S - 8 - CUBA

Reurlet 3-1l-64, a copy of which is attached for

information of Dallas.

Attached for your assistance are two copies of a Dallas

report dated 3-11-64 re subject.

The copy of the report not

baving the cover pages should be furnished the RCMP for its

interest.

Attached report constitutes a sunmary o1 investigaton

concerning a ben esterue, also know as don? oware owed on

page 16 of this report, data is set out concerning

cerning Canadian

passport 1408736t issued to Albert Osborne 1n dune,

ad cindian, passport 15-605.18 lasued to Osborne on 10-10-63

as well as a

roference to Osborne 3 alleged former service in the

Canadian Armed Forces.

In transmitting the attached report, you should point

out the foregoing data appearing on page 16 to RCIl. Also advise

RCIE for its information that Osberne's dual identity has been

brought to the attention of our INS and, in particular, that

Osborne has been in the U.S. since. 1914 except for the years

1916 through 1919 which he spent in Canada and has never become

a U.S. naturalized citizen.

During the last twonty years, Osberne

has spent the greater part of his time in Mexico where he operates

a Baptist Mission.

He le moze or less a self-ordained Baptist

minister.

RCMP tay also be interested to learn we have advised

the U.S. Chief Postal Inspector that Osborne/Bowen has been

zoceiving contributions for his mission in lexico at a

Laredo,

Texas, address,

and thereafter these contributions aro forwarded

to Osborne/Bowen in Mexico.

The above: date should be of interest to the RCH as

the possibility exiats that INS

may ejeot Osborne/Bowen fron

U.S. and bar hin from further entry•

There is also a possibility

he may be asked to leave Mexico.

Therefore,

he may have to return

to Canada where he claims to

anturalized citizen

Enclosurce

Dallas

(Enclosure

10010461-4878

- Mezico (Enclosure

SENIS RED HER NDEXEL

SOFILED ,..

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

CLASSI

DATE /02193

319843

P.lj

APRI 1964

FBI - DALLAS

Estoston

Sido 1: 381

DocId: 32139865

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 d44 USC 2107 Hdte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI (105-82555)

March 11, 1964

Legat, Ottawa (163-364) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R

Re Ottawa routing slip dated 2/11/64, enclosing RCMP

letter dated 2/10/64.

On March 10, 1964, Inspector Parent, Directorate of

Security and Intelligence, RCMP Headquarters, said no additional

information has been developed as to ALBelts anand it

appeared that all avenues had been explored in the absence of

additional information as to his possible identity.

It is requested the Bureau furnish this office for

referral to the RCMP any

pertinent information developed

through other sources which might assist. in this matter.

Extra copies of this letter are enclosed for

the Dallas and New Orleans offices.

5 - Bureau (1 - Dallas

-New orleans

1 - Liaison direct)

1. - Ottawa

MLI: MEG

(6)

AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I

DATELO.

1193

B19403 RADIGAT

(FK)

100-10461-4877

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED PALFILED:

APRI 1964

FBI - DALLAS

DocId: 32139865

Page 3

---

