# docid-32296406

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10217-10182

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-869

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 12/04/1964

"PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

SCAFIDI, ROCCO, MISUR, CONTIN, APARTMENT, 1531

SOUTH BROAD STREET, PH, PA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32296406

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Philadelphia (92-3027 Sub D)

REC-9

Director, FBI (92-6054) 869 Y

LA COSA NOSTRA

JUNE

18/10/64

J. D. Donohue

Me. Flynn

1

- Mr, Kelly

Re your FD-143 dated 12/4/64.

Since PIl 705-Cs has produced only a very limited

amount of intormation during the past 90-day period, your

request to continue at tor an aadicional go-day period is not

approved.

The Bureau recognizes this source has a potential

to furnish significant criminal intelligence infornation and

you are, therefore, authorized to maintain it for an

At PL 705-C does not furnish sufficient

intermation to justity its continuance dozing the next 60

days, you should recommend that it be discontinued.

NOIE:

This misur is located in the Philadelphia apartment of

PH 672-C-TE.

This top level

informant is an admitted member of

La Cosa Nostra.

Source was installed on 8/7/64 when the PHO had

the unique opportunity to make installation without CI's knowledge.

One of the primary purposes for making installation was that

information was developed that meetings might take place at the

informant's residence,

present.

possibly at times that he would not be

has not reported of any such meetings to

date.

It is of assistance in following the activities of the

informant. However, it is felt that it has not been sufficiently

productive to warrant Philadelphia's request to continue it for

a 90-day period.

JEK: ral

(6)

MAILED 4

DEC 161964

COMM-FBI

@ DELL DE TARUCE

Tolson

Bolmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Evons

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes-

Gandy

DEE 10

Day

- ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

TELETYPE UNIT

967

DocId: 32296406

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Ho

ДТЕ: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

3010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Director, FBI

(Bufile 92-6054

JUNE

) DATE:

12/4/64

SAC, Philadelphia

(92-1027-Sub D)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

LA COSA NOSTRA

Character of Case

Field Office

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

AR

Philadelphia

PH 705-C*

Technical-er

Microphone)

XCONr. IN T.

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

ROCCO/SEAFIDI

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Dining room, first floor apartment, 1531 South Broad Street,

Philadelphia, Pa..

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

Central plant.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

5:

• Activated 11:02 a.M., 8/7/64.

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) ;

None

6.

'If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following

questions:

Not applicable.

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

92-6054

869

b.

c.

Registered Mail

LREC-9

Is the survellancé on a switchboard?

6

DEC

Is the sureshagg en

a public coin-operated telephone?

"Or

7

1964

Phila®

JLA: ERG

(2)

1210-6% 1

DocId: 32296406 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

, DATE: .11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

•7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone,

llving room,

IIrst floor apartment,

1531 South Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9.

Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received'.

State what use was made of each item Involved: (Add insert pages)

(See Page 2A)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

PH 614-C-TE, slightly

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No - security st1ll maintained.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

NO

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

$2,407.86

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

" microphone surveillance

1 technical surveillance

13 lines (14 microphones)

line

-2 -

DocId: 32296406 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027-Sub D

9.

Continued®

As reported in weekly airtel summaries, Philadelphia

on a day to day basis receives information regarding informant's

personal activities and efforts by him to maintain his con-.

tacts with his associates.

this source 1s primarily to check

the movements and accuracy of informantis information and to

afford coverage of meetings informant has with other La Cosa

Nostra members.

Ihis Informant's potential cannot be measured

by specific examples of information furnished.

"This informant serves to check on PH 672-C-TE and

it is felt this source will in the future be able to furnish

specific examples of value.

-2A-

DocId: 32296406

Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

•PATE: 11-14-2017

c .

If any others,

set out the proportionate cost of instant

surveillance:

$17.52 per month for regular leased lines to CP.

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

There is no bill for leased line utilized in this

Installation.

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 SES @

$9,475

$47,375.00

2 clerks:

1®

$6,575 & 1 @ $5,795

12,370.00

20% Of 1 SA

@ $15,100

3,020.00

$62,765.00

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

2 clerks and 5 SEs

280 hours

SA

8 hours

288 hours

c. If other installations

monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

2.88 man hours

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

$627.65

17. Remarks (By SAC) :

As previously explained, the purpose of this in-

stallation is to have technical coverage on possible meetings

between PH 672-C-TE and some of his associates who it is

hoped will eventually

appear at his apartment.. It 1s, there-

fore, recommended that this source be continued because

It has not had any breach of security to date and is being

operated at no added cost to the division.

UACB this source

will be continued for a period of 90 days.

- 3-

DocId: 32296406 Page 6

---

