# docid-32178041

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/21/20

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10227-10251

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-3702-668

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO : FILE

TITLE :

Released under the

John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act. of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1964

2

LIAISON WITH EMBASSY IN MX, SOVIET CONSUL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

WH 53211 DocId: 32178041

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM. NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EUITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSKSTATION ANCTOR,

RELEASE

NFORMATION

(K41849

TO

FILE (105-3702)

DATE: 4/16/64

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO

SUBJECT:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, AKA

IS - R - CUBA

TESSER IN 3042PWT/46

DECLASSIFY OAT

5-9-890

CLASSIFI

DECL

In connection with the request of the representatives

of the Presidential Commission who were in Mexico concerning

operations of the Cuban and Soviet Consulates, the writer

of the CIA office

The following is a summary of the

information supplied

by them:

The hours of the Cuban Embassy and Consulate are

9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, for employees

and 10:00 a.m. to

2:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, for the

public. They are not officially open on Saturday.

The Soviet Embassy and Consulate during the period

September-October, 1963, had office hours of 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.

These hours were changed in recent weeks to 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

There was some difference of opinion concerning Saturday hours

for the soviet installation. Mr. WHITES

dvised that neither

the. ambassy nor the: Consulate is open on

Saturday, but HERBERT

ater corrected him, stating that the Embassy

on Saturday and a person with some knowledge of Russian

could probably gain entrance to the Embassy on Saturday.

ROBERT

SHaw advised that the entrance to the main

Cuban

Embassy building is through a gate or door located at

Francisco Marquez 160,

corner of Tacubaya.: The entrance to

the Cuban Consulate is located at the corner of Francisco Marquez

and Zamora, öne block from the main Cuban Embassy entrance.

He painted out that it is possible ta enter the tabassy Consulate

grounds by one entrance and to leave by another. * SHAW also

mentioned that during the period when OSWALD was in Mexico

photographic coverage was maintained only on the entrance at

Francisco Marquez 160 and not on the Consulate entrance at the

corner of Francisco Marquez and Zamora)

CDA: PI

(1)1

GRASS ENT SeRENeAR SezTEKleN/AR+67 05-3702-668

REASON-FCIM II,

SEARCHED

.. INDEXED

LL.StRAWdeRmON

CiA 74R7-15-83

SEN INECRIATTON COMPATRES

SERIALIZED.

FAILED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

AAR A 6 1964

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

LEGAL ATTACHE • MEXICO

OSHERWISE A

SECRET.

10929

NW 53244 DooId: 32178041 Page 2

---

## Page 3

131032

SECRET.

MC 105-3702

HERBERT MANELL stated

that there is only one entrance

for both

the Soviet Embassy and the Soviet Consulate, this

being located at Tacubaya 204.

This appears to be an

entrance to

the Soviet Embassy compound and gives access to both the

building where the Soviet Embassy is located and the building

housing the Soviet Consulate.&

Concerning procedures exercised by the Cuban Embassy

and Consulate jp Mexico governing and controlling travel from

case an application lofted it is his impression that in every

a Cuban visa, no matter what kind of

visa, has to be cleared with the Foreign Office in Havana.

He said that the visa applicant who desires to visit or live

in Cuba is required to furnish the name of a person in Cuba

who knows the applicant.

More recently, Mexican applicants

for Cuban visas have been required to give politically acceptable

references in Mexico

sHaw id

not have readily available information

concerning the exact period of time within which a transit

visa for Cuba must be utilized or the period which the transit

visa authorizes the traveler to remain in Cuba once he has

arrived there..

He thinks he can obtain this information and

will furnish it

Васне

deletio

• StRAw

(ri

739022

- 2-

JISECRET

HH 53244 DocId:32178041 Page 3

---

