# docid-32306098

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10289-10228

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2218

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/28/1967

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LCN, PANCI, ANTHONY, AKA, FALSE CITIZENSHIP,

MURDER, SICILY, IDENT, REL, DEPORTATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 3 MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32306098

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10-

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

ri ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FRO

SUBJEC

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/28/67

INS

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-365) (P)

ON 4/18/97 gM1/DAb/MiC/B

LA

R

COSA NOSTRA

RELCASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

Enclosed for the Bureau are xerox copies of two

memos which are self-explanatory.

TROY ADAMS, District Director, and PATRICK DUVALL,

law adviled that they wile prepare a deportation

Immigration and Naturalization service, New OrLeans,

case aganist

ANTONIO PANI, aka, TONYAPANGI.

INS officials advised that

PAN&I iS illegally

in the United States and that his true name

IS ANTHONY MESSINA. INS advised that MESSINA committed a

murder many years ago in Sicily and subsequently fled to

France where he committed a double murder, According to

information developed by INS, MESSINA is a Mafia "hit man."

INS located the real TONY PANGI in Sicily and

determined that years ago he was a neighbor and friend of

MESSINA.

INS primary difficulty is in proving that PANZI

1s MESSINA. During World War II fingerprint records in

France concerning MESSINA were déstroyed.

INS officials requested any information and Bureau

files which would tend to identify PANGI as MESSINA.

Icedar

For the information of the Bureau, PANYI is .

NO 1284-PC, Bureau file 137-13261.

No 92 case has been yet

opened on PANdI until final determination as to whether or

not he will convert to a TE.

A review of

New Orleans files reflect two memos,

copies of which are enclosed, which could be construed as

evidentiary matter by INS.

Bureau is requested to review

whether or not New Orleah he 4/PC Pile anddetermine

these two memos together

S10440 make available to INS

copies of these two memos.

30

92-6854-2218

New Orleans

92-365) 2101

• (1

* ST-116

12-26-67

- 137-2457) 8I

AQy 30-7067

PJC: cmp

(5)

OSU

SINGL

12-22-4?

TUE: disa

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

DocId: 32306098

Page 2

---

