# docid-32294271

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10213-10047

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-375

Released under the John

7. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45966 Date:

11-20-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/17/1961

' PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, TELCAL, BKG, RES, GENERAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/16/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32294271

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

AT MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA

Will conduct investigation

and Collins Ave. concerning

subject's residing there

otherwise the Hotel would not have any

Ave. Special Reservation Request card; and further noting that it

is known that this is the general vicinity of where TP 41-C has.

previously noted that subject allegedly resided.

Will report investigation outstanding so that all of the

investigation conducted by Miami may be incorporated in report form.

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

Will report results of inquiry made by Legat, Madrid con-

cerning possible interviews in Madrid of JOSE GONZALEZ FERNANDEZ and

GUSTAVO LOPEZ Y. MUNOZ. (Lead sent to Bureau by airtel dated 11/8/61).

Will report results of inquiry made by Legat, Mexico CIty

concerning a possible contact of subject, whom it is at least known

has had one piece of correspondence with

subject residence Tampa

Will report results of interview with EUGENE F. KEANE by

the Albany Office concerning any association or interests of subject

with KEANE or WILLIAM BUCKNER (deceased) .

Will continue efforts to establish further confidential.

coverage of subject's residence, or that of his close associates,

with use of confidential Bureau techniques.

Willimaintain läision with Intelligence Unit, IRS, Tampa

concerning their inquiries of subject, noting they parallel

and may

be reporting late information obtained by other IRs offices.

Will maintain contact with informants and continue to

explore further development of quality informant coverage.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

Information from the records of the Central Bank of Tampa

was

made available by ROBERT TINNARO, Vice President.

Mr. TINNARO

was exhibited by SA ROBERT C. SMITH a photograph. of SARAH ANN TRAF-

FICANTE, daughter of SANTO TRAFFICANTE, and after Mr. TINNARO ex-

- B.-

DRS

REVIEWED BY BAJFK TASK' FORGE

ON 7-22.98 das

C.. RELEASE IN FULL

EL RELEASE IN PART

L TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45966 DooId: 32294271 Page 2

---

## Page 3

JEK ACt 6 (4)

TP 92-1

hibited this photograph to employees receiving payments on the

mortgage and they advised this is not the young

female who made

one payment on the AMATO note. TINNARO further advised that all

other payments, excluding the one payment made by a young female,

were made by a young unknown male.

Legat, Madrid advised by communication dated October 26,

1961 that continued contact with available Cuban sources failed to

result in finding anyone able to get to FREDESVINDO BOSQUE CUETO

to question him concerning the subject. Legat advised RUBEN

BATISTA, son of ex-President FULGENCIO BATISTA,, has continued to

be out of Madrid and it has not been possible to make inquiry

through him of ARSENIO LABRADA LEON regarding subject.

INFORMANTS

TP T 1

is ORVILLE K. COOKE, Division Manager, General Telephone Co.

of Florida, St. Petersburg, Florida.

TP T 2 is TP 41-C, whose identity is known to Bureau.

TP T 3

is EDGAR ADAIR. Agent. IRS. Tampa Intelligencs Unit

JEK Law 11(a)

TP I 4 is TP 50-PCI, whose identity is known to the

Bureau.

TP T 5 is CS TP 51-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

TP T 6

is

PCI, who has known subject all

his Tife.

TP T 7 is

E.

Garcia's Instant Service Station, 22nd St. and

Broadway, PCI, Tampa.

.C*

Cover Page

92-2781-375

HH 45966

DocId: 32294271

Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

.D. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

TP T 2 advised SAS O'BRIEN and LABADIE on October 27, 1961

that SANTO TRAFFICANTE was definitely not in Tampa and that there wase

no indication that subject was to return to Tampa from Miami. Source

mate close daciate,

understood from nis close associate, AUGUST C. PANIELLO, subject's

son-in-law, that subject will continue to reside in Miami.

SAS O'BRIEN and LABADIE observed the activities of AUGUST

C. PANIELLO and JAMES C. LONGO on November 2, 1961 at the Columbia.

Restaurant, however, no information concerning subject's location was.

determined.

TP T 3 advised SA O'BRIEN on November 6. 1961 that/

JEK Law 11

IP I 4 advised on night of Nonember 6, 1961 that his close

associates JAMES LONGO, JIMMY BRUNO, NICK SCAGLIONE and SAM TRAFFICANTE

all believe subject is

still in Miami.

Source said it was impossible

to directly ascertain an address for subject in Miami.

CASIMIRO HERNANDEZ, JR. advised SA LIONEL E. BELANGER on

November T, 1961 that subject was residing in Miami but that he did

not know where subject was residing there.

He added that subject

did not devulge his address or business.

TP I 2 advised SAs O'BRIEN and LABADIE on November 8, 1961

that JACK PARRINO, AUGUST C. PANIELLO and JOHN RIVERA, aka.

"Scarface",

had

been observed

together at RIVERA's 22nd St. Bar, that it was

overheard RIVERA had to see SANTO TRAFFICANTE, and that PANIELLO re-

lated the information that the possibility existed that SANTO TRAF-

FICANTE may make a visit to Tampa.

Source advised he would maintain

close liaison with these persons

to learn of the exact possible plans

of subject and should any information develop, the FBI would be

immediately

advised.

WINFIELD V. ELROD, in charge of the Collection Unit, Internal

Revenue Service, Tampa advised SA O'BRIEN on November 9, 1961 that the

-10

-

92-2784375

NW 45966 DooId: 32294271 Page 4

---

