# docid-32309072

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10297-10199

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-379

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/18/1961

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, LTR, DEATH, ACTION JACKSON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32309072 Page 1

488

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

• Radio

DECODED COPY

*x Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan .

Conrad

D Loach.

Evgnst

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

Tuat

5-27 AM TAIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Shore

DATES: E GLASSES

DEFERRED 8-18-61

TO OrRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

180646

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. LETTER RECEIVED

CHICAGO OFFICE AUGUST 15 LAST FROM ANOMYMOUS SOURCE ATTRIBUTES

RECENT GANGLAND STYLE DEATH OF

FORMER

POI OF CHICAGO OFFICE, AND KNOWN. COLLECTOR FOR HOODLUM

"JUICE"

MEN, TO SUBJECT AND ASSOCIATES SAM BATTAGLIA, "MILWAUKEE PHILI"

ALDERISIO, WILLIE "POTATOES" DADDANO AND JON MATTASSA, BODY

GUARD FOR

SUBJECT. LETTER FURNISHED NAME AND ADORESS OF

RENEE CONWAY, DESCRIBED AS GIRL FIREND OF NICKY VALLO, CHICAGO

HOODLUM, WHO WOULD "TALK" IF INTERVIEWED AND UNDER IMPRESSION

SHE WAS

IN A "TIGHT SPOT." CONWAY DESCRIBED AS LIVING LIFE

OF LUXURY UNDER SPONSORSHIP OF VALLO, AND HAVING NO OTHER

VISIBLE MEANS OF SUPPORT. LETTER STATES THAT IF JOHN MATTASSA

AND NICKY VALLO INTERVIEWED AND FORCED TO TALK THEY COULD

FURNISHES THE ANSWERS INVOLVING THE DEATH OF "ACTION" JACKSON.

CHICAGO WILL INTERVIEW CONWAY AND MATTASSA IN VIEW OF ABOVE

INFO. SUBJECT OBSERVED ENTERING ARMORY LOUNGE, CHICAGO, TODAY.

ACTIVITIES OBTAINED FROM CG 6486-0* RELATIVE TO SUBJECTS VISITS

AND CONTACTS AT ARMORY LOUNGE BEING FOLLOWED CLOSELY, AND

RESULTS TO BE

SUBMITTED TO BUREAU.

GIANCANA ARMED AND

DANGEROUS.

4

REC- 7

RECEIVED:

6:38 AM TELETYPE

92-3171-379

..

6:39

D: Ce 142162

Lazine

AM CODING UNIT!

BMP

is borer

125

AUG 21 1961

111060: 50 T9902

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

OTHER 4

NW 45792 DocId: 32309072 Page 2

---

