# docid-32299710

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10225-10490

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-339235-249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/18/1966

2

SHF, RCF, RES, POLIT, ASSOC, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HW 54464

94

DocId: 32299710

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

-

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 7/18/66

SAC, NEW YORK

NORMATION CO

SUBJECT:, SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

(00: NY)

(Bufile

100-339235)

(NY 100-42479)

HERDIN

TERE

RWISE

FIED

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

IS- CH

(00 : NY)

11/16/94

Classified

Datasily on MADE SARD

Bufile 100-401762)

(NY: 100-107383)

DECLAS

ON 2219%

Rerep SA DANIEL A. FLYNN dated 3/29/66, at NY.

on 6/9/66, NY 5225-S* dined with the subjects at

their residence 110 Christopher Street, New York,

"NY.

During

the evening, the conversation covered

general topics and at

one point SUSAN FRANK stated,

"We are the same as we were.

NY 5225-s* seizing on this statement as

an opportunity to express

himself favorably toward Communist China stated, "I am sure

you are but I am not.

After much soul searching I came to the

conclusion that China has taken the correct course in many ways."

NY 5225-S* stated that this opened up a general discussion of

the situation in Vietnam. During this conversation NY 5225-5*

took a position favoring the actions taken by the Vietcong.

RICHARD FRANK did most of the talking but spoke only general

terms.

RICHARD FRANK, in speaking, was extremely pro-Chinese.

He indicated that the Buddhist leaders behind the scenes commanded

a great following but that the war is forming a polarization

of thought and this is causing the Buddhists to lose their power,

forcing them to make their present moves.

He stated there is

American support.

nothine revolutionary out them and they are now

seeking

Bureau

(RM)

- New York

REC-15

100-339235-249

DAF: 1jg

(6)

EX-708

15 JUL. 20 1966

TUNREC COPY FILED

217

56 AUG 1 1966

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NAT. INR SIC.

lasses

488 perio

NW 54464 DooId: 32299710 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFI

NY 100-42479

NY: 100-107383

In passing SUSAN FRANK had mentioned that she had

been in Algeria and appeared friendly toward NY 5225-s*.

She

in speaking on Vietnam, stated that the Russians, according

to an article published in

"Pravda" were gloating over the

failure of China in Indonesia.

She stated

that the

in

"Pravda" referred to the Indonesians as

"Rebels. particle

She stated

that the actions taken by the Indonesians were definitely anti-

revolution.

NY 5225-s* appeared receptive to this line of

conversation u

During the evening, both the subjects were friendly

and receptive to NY 5225-s*. The informant stated that he is

of the opinion that SUSAN FRANK warmed up to him politically

and that she indirectly tried to explain to him her political

feelings.f

NY 5225-s* described the subjects as tight-lipped

and cautlous.u

met

the subject in chine. lee resldent of china and had

informant is relationhip with the subsets cetu

and exploit the

NY 4047-s* had advised that the subjects continue

their close relationship with MILTON K-AROSEN and the

Progressive Labor Movement and with JAMES and AN LEE of the hY

"China Daily News.

Xee.

CONFIMENTIAE

952-1040

NW 54464 DooId: 32299710

Page 3

---

