# docid-32177305

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

12/6/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10188-10389

RECORD SERIES: NK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-57235-22

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

li44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 55509 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

0

NAR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/01/1994

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 55509 DocId: 32177305

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Spoce Below)

SAC

C 2

i=3

C 6

FBI ordered to seal

5-1

King files in archives

S- 2

S-3_.

Night

By TIMOTHY ROBINSON

Washington Post Wire Service

WASHINGTON - A federal judge

yesterday told the FBI to file with the

National Archives all of its tapes and

documents growing out of buggings and

wiretaps of slain civil rights leader Dr.

Martin Luther King Jr.

The materiais cannot be made pub

lic for at least 50 years. except by court

order, according to the ruling.

U.S,

District Judge John Lewis

Smith J. issued the order on dismissing

two civil suits filed against the FBI by

Bernard Lee, a former assistant to Dr

King, and the Southern Christian Lead-

ership Conference, which Dr. King head-

ed until his assassination in April 1968.

The suits asked money damages SA ---

from the FBI for the buggings. They

alleged the FBI secretly recorded King's

conversations in a motel room here in

1963 and sent a copy of the tape to his

wife, Corretta Scott King. as well as

bugging other conversations.

In addition, the suits claimed copies

of those recordings and

others were

played for members of the news media

as part of an attempt to discredit King

Judge Smith dismissed the suits.

however. because they were not filed

before the three-year statute of limita-

tions for such action had run cut.

The FBI must provide the judge an

inventory of the materials within 90 days

and provide the material to the National

Archives in that same time period

(Ipdicate page,-name of --

newspaper, city and state.-

St

Pervisor

PAGE- 5-

THE STAR LEDGER

NEWARK, NJ

2/1/77

Date:

FINAL

Edition:

Author: MORT PUF

Editor:

Title:

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Offfei/"FK,

NJ

• Being Investigated

708-52235-22

SHED

NDEXED

,RIALIZED.

FE!

= 1943

Budd

24779

НЫ 55509

DocId: 32177305

Page 2

---

