# docid-32336145

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90132-10049

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE : 07/08/1969

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JACK RUBIN

JACK RUBENSTEIN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32336145

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

11

017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

137-2983

UNI D STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miam,

Florida

July 8, 1969

'TICE

Re: JACK RUBIN

On April 10, 1964, a confidential source advised the

FBI that JACK RUBIN and MAX EDER were cO-owners of the

National Plastering Company, 1911 W. Avenue, Blami Beach,

Florida for the past one and a halt years.

Investigation

in the past has disclosed that MAX EDER is a hoodlum and

racketeer in the Miami, Florida area. He has been based

in the fontainebleau Hotel, largest and best known hotel in

the Miami area to protect the hoodlum and racketeer interest

therein.

Business dealings at the National Plastering

Company have also brought RUBIN into contact with other

hoodlun friends of EDER.

On April 21, 1964, a confidential source advised

the FBI that JACK RUBIN owns one share in the National

Plastering Company and draws a weekly salary of $250. plus

quarterly bonuses. RUBIN is considered excellent plastering

man who knows the plastering business very well and actually

handles all of the National Plastering Company's operatins

pertaining to plastering work.

Accörding to the Florida Corporation Charter

dated July 27, 1961,

the following officers for the National

Plastering Company were listed:

President - TERRY RUBIN

(wife of JACK RUBIN, listed for

corporate purposes only);

Secretary-Treasurer - JACK RUBIN;

Vice President - MAX EDER

As of June 6, 1958, JACK RUBIN was under a U.S.

Government tax lien in

the amount of $30,195. This lien

WaS

entered against the Rubin Brothers Plastering Company of

which firm JACK RUBIN was a co-owner at the time, by the

Director of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

137-105-55-24

ALL INFORMIATION CONTAINED

MERCIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

1AIE5/2/955: 5.668520/GCL

(JFK)

ENCLOSURE

S0028-108878

DocId: 32336145 Page 2

---

