# docid-32303201

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10283-10213

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-117

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/16/1962

PAGES :

13

SUBJECTS :

SMO, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, TRA, ASSOC, NRO, B/F INT,

GAMBLING, RACK ACT, TRIAL, ACQUITTAL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

w9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32303201

Page 1

47

---

## Page 2

JEK Act 6 (4)

PG 92-228

INFORMANTS

Except in one instance, the I symbols utilized in this

report will be the same, where applicable, as those used

in previous reports back to; and including, that of 7/28/61.

l who has been PG T-25

in prior reports, recent conversations with Departmental

Attorneys WILLIAM KEHOE and JOHN MULLANEY have caused

SA FORSYTH to believe that they have guessed his identity,

and for this reason, the precaution of giving a new

I symbol to him will be taken.

PG T-1 is Former PG 545-0

PG I-2 is PG 612-C

PG T-30 is CLIFFORD HUTCHISON, Owner, Pines Motel, Leechburg,

Pa. (protect per request)

PG T-32 is PG 640-TE-C

PG T-35 IS GENE HOWARD MC CUTCHEON, JR., Vandergrift, Pa.

(protect per request)

PG T-39 1s PCI

Pittsburgh

- C*=

COVER PAGE

74 45854

DooId: 32303201 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNTIED STATE DAPHNESS ON TUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

March 16, 1902.

SAMUEL MANNARINO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III, Pittsburgh, March 16, 1962.

There follows a brief characterization of informants used

in referenced report:

G II is a Westmoreland Counconsultant by the

businessman,

who has been used as

MANNARINOs in some of their legitimate

enterprises.

PG T-2 is a New Kensington, Pa., numbers writer,

formerly connected with prostitution activities.

PG I-30 is a businessman in Allegheny Township,

Westmoreland County, Pa., whose business

orings him into contact with many of the

area inhabitants and leaders.

PG I-32 is a former racketeer from Mercer County, Pa.

PG I-35 is a student who has worked with racketeers

and gamblers in Vandergrift and Oakmont, both

Pennsylvania.

PG T-39 is a Pittsburgh, Pa., gambler and club

operator.

HH 45854 DocId: 32303201 Page 3

---

