# docid-32262125

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

10/1/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10107-10194

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

002386

Released under the John

=. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54756 Date:

10-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

U.S. COAST GUARD

HALL, LORAN EUGENE, AKA LORENZO PASCILLO; ALLEGED CUBAN INVASION

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/05/1963

4

ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS

HALL, LORAN, INTERVIEW

CUBA

BAY OF PIGS

DOCUMENT TYPE : MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/31/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Includes HSCA cover letter. Box 58.

v9.1

14 54756

DocId: 32262125

Page

---

## Page 2

002386

MEMORANDUM

Date:

To the File

From:

Re:

September 26, 1977

Johanna Smith

Document Handling Request

The Coast Guard requested that the Select Committee

handle the attached document as sensitive and return it to

them

at the end of the Committee's existence. The address

it is to be returned to is as

follows;

Commandant, United States Coast Guard

Room 10405

400 7th Street, S.W.

Washington, D.C.

20590

Attention:

John Gaughan

4756

DocId: 32262125

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TREASURDAFPARTSENT

COAST CUARD

CG-2947 (8-47)

CLASSIFICATION CANCELLED 26 SEP 77

IAM PROV EO 11652 PER ANTH. SEC. MGR

USCE HODS.

SMITT

SUBJECT

"HALL, Loran Eugene, aka Lorenzo PASCILLO; alleged

Cuban invasion; information concerning

OR TA CAMPBELL

REPORT OF INVESTIGATION, Initial & Closing

3-1-92, 11CG-9-63

REPORTING UNIT

1lth Coast Guard District

Intelligence & Law

Enforcement Branch

Long Beach, Califomia

ORIGIN OF CASE

Information received on 4 September 1963

DATE

5 September 1963

DISTRIBUTION

COMDT (OIN) - 2

File - 1

INVESTIGATORS

.M. R. RILEY

1G-00519-1

SYNOPSIS

On 4 September 1963, information was received from a source that had administered

a polygraph examination

•to an individual who claimed he was an Anti-Castro Cuban

and that he was to take part in an

pose of which was to counteract a „invasion of Cuba on 12 September 1963, the pur-

pseudo" Anti-Castro invasion which was actually

led by three Cuban Communists and is scheduled to commence on 18 September 1963.

The results of the polygraph examination were reviewed and, although the test

could have been more detailed and accurate, the opinion is that the subject of

the examination was being truthful in relating his intentions as to his activities

in the invasion of 12 September 1963. The following information was developed,

and was relayed to the Los Angeles, California, office of the Central Intelligence

Agency on 4 September 1963.

DETAILS

1. Predication

This investigation was authorized by LCDR F.-J. LESSING, USCG, Chief, Intelligence

and Law Enforcement Branch, 1lth Coast Guard District, pursuant to information

received by an investigator on 4 September 1963.

2. On 4 September 1963, the undersigned investigator became engaged in a conversa-

tion with Mr. Robeft BARRICK, Director, and Mr. Bert BOVAY, Polygraph Examiner,

of the West Coast Lie Detection Center, 842 Redondo Avenue, Long Beach, California.

BARRICK' and BOVAY related the following: On 30 August 1963, BARRICK administered

a polygraph examination to Loran Eugene

HalL who is presently using the alias of

Lorenzo PASCILLO. The polygraph examination was requested by one Bill IEUNNISON

who identified himself as a member of the John Birch Society. TENNISON requested

the examination be given to HALl to verify the facts that HALL had told TEUNNISON

regarding his (HALL's) activities in an invasion of Cuban planned for 12 September

1963. HALL was scheduled to give a talk before a local chapter of the John Birch

Society. The purpose of this talk was to raise funds for an invasion group in which

HALL is to take part. During the

course of the examination, the following was

INTRATE NOT LUNOMADIGATLY

WH 54756 DocId:32262125mRaues1UD, DOD DIR 5200 10

CONFIN

---

## Page 4

HALL, Loran Eugene, aka Lorenzo PASCILLO

Page 2 of 13 pages

developed: HALL stated that he took part in the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba...

HALL is presently on a fund-raising campaign in the United States to raise money

for an invasion which is allegedly scheduled

to take part in Cuba on 12 September

1963. HALL stated that the purpose of this invasion of Cuba is to counteract a

"pseudo" invasion of Cuba which is soeduled

to take place on 18 September 1963.

The invasion of 18 September 1963 is slated to be headed by three groups, one of

which is to depart from Guatemala, one from Nicaragua, and the third group's

point of departure is unknown.

HALL related that each of the three groups is led

by a known Cuban Communist.

HALl stated the CIA is aware of the invasion of 18

September but has been led to

believe that these three group leaders are former

Cuban Communists who are now "anti-Castro"

• Actually, Hall stated, these group

leaders are still active Communists.

The invasion of 18 September 1963 has been

designed to oust Castro from Cuba but still retain a Communist regime thereby

allowing the present U. S. administration to play down the Cuban issue for politi-

cal purposes. HALl stated the new regime in Cuba will give the appearance of

over-throwing CASTRO and the establishment of a democratic government but in effect

will still be a Communist stronghold and Soviet controlled. HALL alleges that

the present administration is fully aware of the outcome of the invasion planned

for 18 September 1963. HALL stated that the administration is "for" that invasion

so that the Cuban situation will not be an issue in the forthcoming election. HALL

stated that the next election for president will probably be between KENNEDY and

GOLDWATER and that GOLDWATER is presently "riding high" politically on the Cuban

situation. HALL stated the purpose of his invasion scheduled for 12 September 1963/

His to destroy refineries, powerplants, etc., and to fight against the forces

invading on 18 September.

HALL stated he also plans to take motión pictures of

the action and return to the United States for further fund-raising speeches.

The polygraph examiner, BARRICK, stated that HALL agreed not to accept money from

the John Birch Society until his retum to the U. S. after the invasion. BARRICK

related that HALL appears to be Cuban in that he is dark and wears a beard but

has no Cuban accent.

BARRICK further related that HALL is apparently vehemently

anti-Semitic in that HALl claims that of the one hundred forty top advisers in

the present administration, one hundred four of them are "atheistic Jews"

• Each

time the subject of Jews came up in their conversation, BARRICK related, HALL

nearly "went through the roof" berating them.

BARRICK stated that the individual

Communism and

the man directly under J. EDGAR HOOVER in the structure of the FBI is slated to

take HOOVER's job in the event of his death or retirement. This individual, whose

name BARRICK could not recall, supposedly was deported from this country for

his activities in the Communist Party many years ago and returndin the early 1950's

to take his present job. TEUNNISON stated that the planned invasion of 18 September

is just a part of the "international conspiracy" designed to take over this and

other democratic countries.

3.

HALL was given a polygraph examination as to his intentions regarding his

activities in the planned invasion of 12 September 1963. The results of the

examination were reviewed by the undersigned.

Al though

the results were some-what

slight and difficult to determine, the results indicated weak truthfulness and

no deception was indicated.

It is the opinion that the test

was not properly

constructed in thetthe relevant questions were not of significant strength.

SOMEGRADE AT TO TEAR

25: 101 2010776A TY

HN 54756 DocId:32262125

Page

EyEs: 1050906000-10

---

## Page 5

HALL, Loran Eugene, aka Lorenzo PASCILLO

page 3 of 3 pages

A more definite determination could have been reached if the overall test was

more properly constructed. However, based on

the results of the test given,

HALL was apparently being truthfull

as to his intentions.

4. The following information on HALL was surreptiously obtained from the files

of the West Coast Lie Detection Center:

Date and place of birth:

4 January 1928, Newton, Kansas

Fresent address: 1191 College View Drive, Monterey Park, Califomia

Marital Status:

Married, four children

Arrest Record:

Indicated as being arrested for "Checks" (Felony). No date

or place of arrest was indicated.

The files also indicated SUBJECT (HALL) is a veteran having served in the U.S.

Army (no dates indicated).

5. No information on Bill IEUNNISON could be obtained regarding his personal data.

AGENT's NOTE: The information contained in this report was developed through

an informal conversation between the undersigned, BARRICK, and BOVAY. BARRICK and

BOVAY are both retired Long Beach Police Officers

and highly ethical polygraph

examiners. The three aforementioned persons were in a general conversation dealing

with polygraphy when the topic of this report arose. The information was discreetly

obtained and the files were surreptiously reviewed to obtain as much information

as possible. It is therefore requested that the source of this information be

closely guarded

and not be revealed.

6. All of the information contained in this report was furnished to Mr. LIEBACKER

Central Intelligence Agency, Los Angeles, California, on 4 September 1963.

EXHIBITS AND WIINESSES_

None

UNDEVELOPED LEADS

None

SUBMITTED:

APPROVED:

M. R. RILEY, Investigator

Intelligence and Law Enforcement Branch

Eleventh Coast Guard District

Intelligence and Law Enforcement Branch

Eleventh Coast Guard District

10:

Э0:29R43340 20 TRAD

INVAS US USES-CALLY

Dus bis 5s00 10

COMEST

HH 54756 DocId:32262125

Page 5

---

## Page 6

LEIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHAHDSOM PREYER, MC.

SAMUEL LOLVIME, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

JOHN B. ANDERSOM, ILL

YVONNE BRATHWAITE RURAE, CALIP.

STEWART B. MCKINNEY, CONA.

CHRISTOPHER J. LADD, CONN.

CHARLES THONE, NEBA,

MAHOLO E. TOMO, TINA.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EUSAN, PA.

(202) 225-4524

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.5. House of Representatibes

3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 19, 1977

Commandant, United States Coast Guard

Room 10405

400 7th. Street, S.W.

Washington, D.C.

20590

Attention: John Gaughan

Dear Sir:

The Select Committee on Assassinations, U.S. House of

Representatives, requests you provide any information available

on Loran Eugene Hall, aka Lorenzo Pascillo, "Skip" Hall,

Lawrance Holt, SSAN: 515-20-3802, DPOB: January 4, 1930, Newton,

Kansas.

Specifically, you are requested to provide the Committee a

copy of the following:

U.S. Coast Guard, Report of Investigation

1lth Coast Guard

District, Intelligence and

Law Enforcement Branch, Long Beach, California

September 5, 1964

Subject:

Hall, Loran Eugene, aka Lorenzo Pascillo;

alleged Cuban Invasion, information

concerning (3 pages)

Thak you for your prompt cooperation in this matter.

very truly yours

di Nott Categ

am

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

HH 54756 DooId: 32262125

Page

---

