# docid-32335474

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/04/1975

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ALADDIN M AL TAYYAR

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32335474

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITES STATES DEPARTMENT OF JULICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York

New York,

May 4, 1975

SECRET

Aladdin M. Al-Tayyar

(5)

A confidential source advised that Aladdin Al-Tayyar

(5)

First Secretary to the Iraq Mission

to the United Nations, CS

New York, New

lork, has, since July, 1974, been engage

in numerous inquiries and negotiations for the purchase

of sophisticated weaponry, including automatic weapons

with silencers. Among others he has dealt with are

Military Armameht Corporation of Marietta, Georgia,

Defense

Systems, of Powder Springs, Georgia, and

American International

Corporation, of Salt Lake City, Utah. The latter company

manufactures

the Model 180 long rifle which is equipped with

a laser sight mechanism.

A factory and warehouse for American

International Corporation is located in Austria under the name,

Voere Ges MBH

and Company.

1776-1976

21 AveRue du Jour

Ferney-Voltaire. rance, contacted Al-Tayyar trom the CS-

weapons! dealers.

United States

companies.

arranged for Charles Goff, Chairman of the

Board

of American International Corporation.

Baghdad

in connection rich the sale of neapons feared j(s)

Another

government agency, that conducts criminal

and security investigations,

advised that a shipment. of

weapons, including sub-machineguns with sound suppressors,

SECRET

This document contains

neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

Classified

4339

Exempt from

ODS,

Category 1,

2 & 3

Date of Declassification

Indefinite

It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents

are not

to be distributed

outside your agency.

Sources mentioned herein

have furnished reliable

information in the past

unless otherwise indicated.

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668 510/GCL

1.5

DCOL

(E6) 105-263921-4910)

(FIR) 10/6107 3/2495 Mude ENGLOSURE

DocId: 32335474 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

LEAS

(1)

Will attempt to identify and furnish background

information concerning

the individuals contacted by

(Aladdin Al-Tayyar ](5)

(2) Will attempt to

ascertain whether any of these.

individuals are

known

to have

affiliation with

arms' dealers

or known

terrorist groups.

SECRET

- 3*-

DocId: 32335474

Page 3

---

## Page 4

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-(11 USt 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Spain

Aladdin M. A1-Tayyar (S)

vere sent from Military Armament Corporation in Marietta,

Georgia, to Edgar. MaLemmens kn

(s)

source abroad advised that Edgard Lemmens

supplier of arms to the Irish Republican Army and to

XEuzkadita Azkatasunat, a Basque terrorISTOun

government agency also advised that MitchellWerbell, III and

Mitchely Werbell. IVe who operate Defense Systems, have been

previasly arrested by the United States Government for illegal

arms ' deals.

that(Al-Tayyar

A second confidential source advised on April 16, 1975,

made telephonic contact

with the following

individuals in Lebanon

Date

Number Called

July 16, 1974

691+230095

July 23, 1974.

691 + 230095

August 11, 1974

040+159310

(5)

Individual Called

Read (phonetic)

Ryh ab

(phonetic)

Davis Lewis

35 Dancing Road

1.5.8

SECRET

- 2-

DocId: 32335474

Page

---

