# docid-32163394

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kernety Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

wus.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10150-10473

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-10171

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-7740

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/03/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32163394

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

DATE:27774452977

assassination

Records correction Act -of 1992 (11 Use 2107 Hote).

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date of transcription_

418/322

State Judicial: Police Agent RENTS CRANADOS accompanied

Speelal Agents ROBERZ I.

ROGDES and HUNKS D. TENORIO to the Municipal

Jail in Insenada, Baja

California, Mexico, whereby RICHARD SIDNEY

WATSON

was nade available for intervies.

HANSON was brought to the Director*s Office at the jatl and

there he was nade avare of the identities of the interviewing Agents,

Special Agents ROGERS and IIHORIO.

Prior to any questioning, FATSON

was advised of his rights and furnished an interview for entitled,

*Interrogation, Advice of Rights" which he stated he understood and

signes -

Ale

then furished the following infornation.

te advised

that the infornation concerning suBy and OSwALd

pertaining to an allegod hotel receipt was inforation that he had

read fron the National Enquirer magazine.

he stated that as far as

he

coalé rocall the article.

OSWALD and Busy nupposedly net in a motel

outside Now Orleans, Lonisiana, but he could not recall the date of

the issue of the magazine.

1o stated

that while in jail in Ensenada, ho had soes a f1lm

olip of a 35mm print.

The print was subsequently burned, but later a

fellow prisoner shoved, hin a photograph of this filn aldo,

The photo™

graph shoved tow individuals, OstiaLs,

CEE GUEVARSI a SYLYIA PENAL

(ulte P-a 103 Agent VALERA ROSTANOE, phonetie), and another

individual who appeared to him to be PHILIP ACET, formor ClAAgont.

He stated that this photograph appeared to have boon taken at.

the

Beelenda Campence :

Cuidad de Caren,

Vocatan Pentosula, Honice.

MAsSON aldo stated that he had furnished all of this

infomation to Aaniral TURMER STANEORD, Director, CLA.

Restern Honig

thore, who is a personal friend of his father and that he had also

made this infornation avallable to Assistant Director in Charge

RICHARD GEBHARDE, LOS Angeles FBI, Los Angeles, California.

He said

that he had contacted CUBARDY on Nevenber 3, 1976, under the Freeden

of Information and Privacy Act, regarding Intormation that the Fel

night have in their files concerning his.

However, he stated he had

not received any mail and felt

as though his mail was being inter-

cooted at the Ensenada jail.

NAISON also adviced

chat ké had made all of this inforation

available to GEORGE GRAT, Staff Writer,

'Santa

Registor, Alsai

Vojo, California.

Tell

Interviewed on

_File #

4/6/77

Ensenada,

B.C.r

Maxico

by

SA

• ROBERT 1.

HOGERS and

_Date dictated

SA

RONIX D

TENORTO/owf sogh

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl.

it and its. contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

62-1329

4/3/77

DocId: 32163394

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.. Kennedy

DA TA 301 KEV AT2970!

Assassination Records

cutlection

Act-01-1992 114 U5C

2107 Hote).

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dote of transcription.

4L/7Z

stato Judicial Folice Agent BUNS CRABADeS accompanied

Special Agonts BORDRE F+ ROCSIG and WIRE

D, TENORIo to the Muricipa)

in Ensenada, Baja Califoria, Mexico, wherely RICEAND SIDNEY

wArsON was nade avallahle for intervieu,

HASSOR was

brought to the Director'a

Otties at the

there ho was nade avare of the identitins of the interviering Agents,

Special Agents DOGras and TENORIO-

Prior to any questioning, RAISON

was adviaed of his righto

and furnishod an intervion fom entitled,

"Interzogations Pavice of

Rights" which he stated he undorstood and

nigned.

He then fumished the folloving Internation:

He advised that the infortion conceming 20lZ and OSSAGE

pertaining to an alleged hotel tocolot was intomatios that ho has

read fron the National Inquirer magazine.

ho stated that as for as

could recall the arciale,

OSMALD and RUBY supposedly met in & notel

outside New Orloans, Loulsians,

coule not recall

the date of

the anaue of the magazine.

to stated

that shile in Jall in Ensaneda, he had coen a 211m

clip of a 35mm printe

The print vas subsequently barned,

bat later g

fellow prisoner showed

• photograpi of

this fils clip.

The photor

graph showed four individuals.

a GILVIA PENAL

(viro 91 a X09 Agent

ROSTAJOr, phonetic) , and

- anotaer

individnal who appeared

so him to bo

PAILIP ACES, fornor CMAgonte

Xe statsd

photogragh

have been takes

Hacienda Compones:

Culdad de

Fusatan Poninsula, Mories.

MALES AlaC

stated

furnished

infernation: to

Admired

STANFORE,

Direotor;

festern

phase, who is a personal friend of bis

Sather and that ho had also

made the intonation available

Assistant Dissator.

Chargo

RICHARD CRABARDS,

Los Angeles FBI, Los Angeles, Callfornia.

that he hau

contaesad GSBEARDS en

Rovenbor 3, 1976; under the Freedon

ot Information

Privacy Act.

regarding

intoration taat

the fet

sight have in

their

" Allen concornias

However,

he ateted ho had

not receivod any nail

felt 2s

Ensenada

though his nat. was being intey

FATSON

also advised

avallable to GECREE GRAT, Szale

Viero, Glitoria

had made

-toss intosmation

Santa 3ng

no later

-Weston

Interviewed on.

4/0/TT

_File #

72

Esseuaday

D'

by.

ROBERS F. ROGERS and

Brake D+

3E498a0/ ONESE

_Date dictated

This document contains neither recommendations nor-conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBl and is loaned to your jagency

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency:...

DocId: 32163394

Page 3

---

