# docid-32293212

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10488

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-368

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/16/1963

7

CM, MISUR, INSTAL, TOWN HOUSE MOTEL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32293212

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reléased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleution Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

REC- 41

SAC ,

New Orleans

82713-368

Director, FBI

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka

1/2/64

JUNE

1 - Nr. Devic

Re your FD-14

dated 12/16/63.

Provided fill security assured, authority granted to

install nisur in the room occupied by the subject at the

Town House motel, batayette, Louls ana, when Warcello again

irequents this estabiishuent:

Promptly advise Bureau when

source activated and symbol number assigned.

Furnish Bureau

veckly airtel summary of information furnished by this misur.

NOTE: Carlos Marcello is one of the leading racket figures in the

New Orleans Office has ascertained that every five to

eight weeks he travels to Lafayette, Louisiana, and stays at the

Town House Motel. Investigation

has revealed that while there he

is visited by a large number of unidentified individuals. Bulet

12/10/63 authorized New Orleans Office to conduct a survey to

determine

feasibility of misur coverage. New Orleans Office

requests authority to install misur, pointing out that they have

submitted to the Laboratory table lamps made available by the

Town House management which are available for the Bureau's

exclusive use for as long as their use is needed.

The Laboratory,

upon receipt of lamps, is going to determine if Mutt radio microphones

can be installed in table lamps.

Mp u can not be effected, two wasp plugs will be placed in Narcello's

New Orleans notes if such coverage

room to transmit to another room'at the Town House Motel which will

be used by the New Orleans Office to monitor

misurs. In view of

the very definite need to penetrate Marcello's activity, it is

recommended New Orleans Office be authorized to effect this coverage

since it might produce information not available from any other source.

1

- J. D. Donohue

- M. F. Row

. - Laboratory

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. d

Hones a

Division (Electronics Section)

JEK: erw

MAILED) 10

-JAN - 2 1964

COMM-FBI

JAN INE ROCH

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32293212

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-142 (Rev.

5-8-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-2713

JUNE

)DẠTE:

December 16, 1963

FROM : SAC, NEW ORLEANS (66-1230)

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title CARLOS MARCELLO, AKA.

Character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office NEW ORLEANS

Symbol Number

Type of survei lance (Deshindeal as Macrophon

1.

Name and address of subject:

Carlos Marcello

577 Woodvine Street

MetairIE

Louisiana

.. Location of technical operation:

Town House Motel

Lafayette, Louisiana

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None

REC- 41

92-2713.

7-13-64

8 DEC 18-1963

D.

8L]

36

4. Cost and manpower involved:

There will be no cost for leasing of telephone lines

Monitoring of misur will be in another room of Town Houses

Motel for periods of one to two days at intervals of

every

four to six weeks when MARCELLO visits Lafayette,

Louisiana, and stays, at the; Town House Motel. Only monetary

cost will

be renting of room in motel to monitor misur.

In view of fact misur will be monitored

away from. Head-

quarters City, it is anticipated agents not working on

5.

augs tan tive

sectrestigations concerning MARCELLO will have

to monitor misur.

Excellent. Another room in the Town House Motel will be

utilized to monitor misur.

Misur will consist of Mutt

(contínued page lA)

- Bureau

1

NeW

Orleans

Registered Mail

FGB: sab (2)

Let No

11/9/44

DocId:32293212 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

5. Adequacy of security: (continued)

Radio Microphones installed in table lamps made available

by Town House management, which are available for Bureau's

exclusive use for as long as

their use is needed.

If

Laboratory is unable to install Mutt Microphones in table

lamps, then misur will be effected with two Wasp

Plugs.

1A

DocId: 32293212

Page 4

---

## Page 5

'Released' under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

11.

Possibilities of obtaining desired information by other means

(Explain in detail) :

Attempts to develop information concerning MARCELLO'S

activities and existence of La Cosa Nostra through inter-

views with hoodlum subordinates of MARCELLO have to date

been unsuccessful.

While we have a number of potential

Pop Echelon Criminal Informants under development, none

have identified existence of la Cosa Nostra and CARLOS

MARCELLO's leadership of this organization.

12. Risks of detection involved:

As noted above, the Town House management has furnished

to this office

for our exclusive use table lamps which

are the same as those used in all rooms and suites in

the Town House Motel.

a those used,

It is anticipated that Mutt

Microphones will be installed in these lamps by the

Laboratory for use on this misur.

If the installation

of these microphones in the lamps in not feasible, it

is anticipated that this misur will be effected by use

of two Wasp Plugs.

It is felt that the risks of detection

are negligible using this type of equipment.

13.

Probable length of technical surveillance:

90 days.

However, misur will last only one to two days

at intervals of once every

four to

six weeks.

14. Request made for technical surveillance by any outside agency

(name specific official,

title and agency:

None

- 3 -

DocId: 32293212

Page 5

---

