# docid-32328560

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90076-10075

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-167375-10 -

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE: 07/26/1967

• PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

CACHE OF EXPLOSIVES BURIED IN JULY 19, 1964 ON

ISLAND IN ST.

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

DocId: 32328560

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eLeasett

under the dohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE:, 11-14-2017

REVIEWED BY FEI/JFK TASK FORCH

ON 18/22/97

La RELEASE IN FULL FI, 2

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

7/26/67

Alrtel

ST-106

1 - Mr. V. H. Nasca

:::2

To:

SAC, Miami (105-13632)

REC 53

From:

Director, FB1 (105-167375) E / 0

UNSUBS; Cache of Explosives Buried in July 19, 1964,

on Island in St. Lawrence River

" IS - CU

NM - CU

Rellairtel 7/21/67, copy of which is attached for

Ottawa•

It is not clear whether the Army source in this matter

is Sergio Diaz Brul.

If he is the source and if his address and

employnent in Spain

can be furnished RCMP, be certain that you

have Army clearance to reveal his identity and whereabouts to

RCMP®

1 - Logat, Ottawa (105-3096) (Enclosure)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIFIE!

MAILED 6

JUL

1967

COMM-FBI

NOTE:

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr -

Wick

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

Gate:

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

'ele. Roo

Tole FiVE iUl 1156

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

Army, in May, 1967, advised Miami Office it had source

Source stated he was in Montreal,

explosives on an island.

Source believed material was still there

and furnished maps showing their location. We passed data to RCMP

which has already recovered limpet mine.

.i..

RCMP is endeavoring to locate other explosives and in

this connection has advised that it is preparing to dig up the

island.

RCMP has requested the

source be recontacted for specific

information concerning the location of the other explosives.

We

have determined that the source is in Spain and we have asked

Miami Office to determine from Army whether it is willing to dis-

close identity and specific whereabouts of its source so we can

advise RCMP in the event it desires to have him contacted there.

NOTE CONTINUED OVER AUN

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32328560

Page 2

---

