# docid-32307972

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (11 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/19/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10330

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2ND NR 2094, 3RD NR 2094

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/21/1967

3

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, ELECTRONIC EXPERTS,

AMERICAN DETECTIVE AGENCY, BUGGING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32307972 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

August 24, 1967

Airtel

To:

Tron:

NY 4336-C-1%

TECIP

SAC, New York (137-5031)

Director, FBI (137-10113)

92-

6054-

Reurairtel, 8/21/67.

The admission of NY 4336-C-TE that he 1s a meuber

of La Cosa Nostra (LCN) is a most encouraging developnent

in your TECIP.

i Tx

As soon as 1t is feasible to do so, he should

be questioned in detail with respect to his knowledge of

ION activity.

Advise if his mambership had been verified by

other sources who are in a position to furnish accurate

data regarding ICN membership as being a member of LCN.

NY 4857-C-TE should be contacted in an effort

to verify the membership of NY 4336-C-TE.

ORIGINAL TILED IN 137-10113-95

MALLED 12

AUG 2 4 1967

COMM-FBI

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conrad.

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

To DOSEP 7

Gandy

•MAIL RO

ELETYPE UNIT. L

DocId: 32307972

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records: Collection Act of 1992(11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

8/21 /67

1O:

(137-10113)

92-6054)

(92-2390)

SAC, Ma

10 Me

NY. 4935-0-T3

DON YORK DEVISION

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - COTEDTRACY

on 6/17/67, Informant adeitted being a

nasher of Let for approxinately, the past aight or nine

years and belonging to the BOVANO "fantly"

surrounding

Inferent no querled concernins detaile

He pointed out

and it de to be noted that he has in the past rumished

intomation concerning initlation rites of LOl. Informant»

on the crounds of anered honor"

• declined to rumich

specifie details in regara to his "docina" at thie tie

Cne t-00. 10

for tany yeare. Despita nie elecavences

In the post on the subleet of hin webernig in LeT

has always been felt and elcarly denonstrable that he le

indeed a noser.

áu: (137-10313)

G

292-0054

1 - 92-

(PICABILLL (4010)

NOS HOS

152-03-1

02-774)

Tor.

32-2300)

(237-5032)

92-6054

NOT RECORDED

203 AUG 31 1967

ORIGINAL FILED IN

131-10113-75

(23)

DocId: 32307972

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

IT 237-5032

OX 92-2300

Int orant

tale occasion advised that

nur Leadere of LOU exploy elsctronic experte to

debug"

thele own horos and places of business, but in addition

hones and places of buniness

BARUCES

thetr

•"fantlien" and/or "decine".

Intomant produced on this occeaten & bue nece

card fron the Amunicon patective Ageney, 5914 Borgentine

Avenue, Nest llow York, Now Jersey, which card deseribed

the agency as licensed and bonded investigators and also

providing guard service and privete surveillance.

It 3teced

as 160 directar PIUR J. POLICASTRO. He stated that the

above agency to his om personal knowledge was uillized by

JOB FAYONNE (RICARILLI) to "debug" periodically his residence

and place of businece, as well na to "bug" associates vinor

ho suspects nicht be infamants.

The abore-noted PITAl J. POLICASIRO le well known

Co the Bureau ns a forer Sergeant of the weet New Tort.

now dersoy: Police Departent, who with the chief of Police

of that department was Involved in the offering of a bribe

to state Police Officials in an eftort to reck Leniency for

CARICAS CALANS.

Intorant on this occasion strted that he hinself

hes full acooss, to all modern types of electronie devices tor

Bin120z operations.

In view of the ebove infomation concorning the

"bussing" activities on the part of Ich membors, the Bureau

Is requested to give consideration to cautioning all fiole

officea or at least those with known LCW webers to be alert

In order to protect

che Hurond's intomant penetration into that organitation.

Intoration coples of this comunication are being

tarnished the dorark ifflee in view of the intomation coneerning

activitles of individuals in their division.

DocId: 32307972

Page 4

---

