# docid-32157609

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10125-10043

RECORD_SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-1639-4114.4115

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. LA

SAC. DL

DATE: 01/24/1964

• PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: JR, BKG, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

07/26/1996

STATUS

Redact

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC APPENDIX

HH 54463 DocId:32157609 Page 1

---

## Page 2

APPENDIX

JEWISH FRATERNAL CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEE

formerly known as Jewish Information.

Service (Los Angeles Jewish Cultural and

Fraternal Clubs; Fraternal Medical Plan

of the California Fraternal Service Association

On May I, 1963, a source reported that it was

announced at a meeting of the Westside Jewish Cultural Club.

In Los Angeles on February 3, 1961, that the Jewish

Information Service was to be known henceforth as the Jewish

Fraternal Co-Ordinating Committee.

This source had previously advised on May 2, 1960,

that the Jewish Information Service was formed about January,.

1954, in Los Angeles for the purpose of continuing the activity

of the defunct International Workers Order.

prior to

March 4, 1956, the los Angeles Jewish Cultural and Fraternal

Clubs were Identified as the. Los Angeles Jewish Cultural Clubs,

this group being formerly known as Lodges of the Jewish people's

Fraternal Order.

Fraternal Clubs are currently active in the Los Angeles area.

The Fraternal Medical Plan of the California

Fraternal Service Association was formed about January, 1954,

for the purpose of continuing the activity of the Jewish

People's Fraternal Order Medical Plan.

Since that date the

functioning of the Fraternal Order Medical Plan of the

California Fraternal Service Association has been integrated into

the operation of the Los

Angeles Jewish Cultural and Fraternal

clubs,

inasmuch as the service provided by the Fraternal Medical

Plan of the California Fraternal Service Association is made

avallable most exclusively to members of the Los Angeles Jewish

Cultural and Fraternal Clubs; further, effort is made to have

members of the Los Angeles Jewish Cultural and Fraternal

Clubs also become members of the Fraternal Medical Plan of

the California Fraternal Service Association.

The Fraternal Medical Plan of the California

Fraternal Service Association 1s

currently active in the Los

Angeles area.

The International Workers Order and the Jewish

People's Fraternal Order have been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order

10450.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

441639-4114

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE l0•9-93 BY 9802-Rde-

APPENDIX

I SEARCHED...

... INDEXEDIA.

JFA

SERIALIZER FILED MAR

Source is LA 3448-S

JAN 2 7 1964

FBI - DALLAS

WH 54463 DocId: 32157609 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1

APPENDIX

JEWISH FRATERNAL CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEE

Iormerly known as Jewish Information

of the California Fraternal Service Association

On May 1, 1963,

a source reported that it was

announced at a meeting of the Westside Jewish Cultural Club

in Los Angeles on February 3, 1961, that the Jewish

Information Service was to be known henceforth as the Jewish

Fraternal Co-Ordinating Committee.

This source had previously advised on May 2, 1960,

that the Jewish Information Service was formed about January.

1954, in Los Angeles for the purpose of continuing the activity

of the defunct International Workers Order:

Prior to

March 4, 1956, the Los Angeles Jewish Cultural

and Fraternal

Clubs were identified as the Los Angeles Jewish Cultural, Clubs,

this group being formerly known as Lodges of the Jewish People's

Fraternal Order.

The Los Angeles Jewish Cultural and

Fraternal Clubs are currently active in the Los Angeles area.

The Fraternal Medical

Plan of the California

Fraternal Service Association was formed about January, 1954;

for the purpose.of

continuing the activity of the Jewish

People's Fraternal Order Medical Plan.

Since that date the

functioning of the Fraternal Order Medical Plan of the

California Fraternal Service Association has been

integrated into

the operation of the Los Angeles Jewish Cultural

and Fraternal

clubs, inasmuch as the service provided by the Fraternal Medical

of the California Fraternal Service Association 1s made

available most exclusively to members of the Los Angeles Jewish

the California Fraternal Service Association.

The Fraternal Medical Plan of the Californi

Fraternal Service Association is currently active in the Los:

Angeles area.

The "International Workers Order and the Jewish

People's Fraternal Order have been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order

10450•

N: 1639-4114

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HRETN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 10-9-93

_Bx 9503 Rdd

JFK)

Source

is LA 3448-5

APPENDIX

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED L FILED.A

JAN 2 4 1964

FBI - DALLAS

1W 54463 DocId: 32157609 Page 3

---

