# docid-32153805

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10102-10077

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-1639-476

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. AO

DIRECTOR. FBI

Released under the John

*. kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-323

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/11/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/23/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HY 54463 DocId: 32153805

Page 1

---

## Page 2

11/26/63

AIRMAIL

30 g

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM s

RE E

SAC, ALBUQUERQUE (44-391) (P)

JACK XEON BUSY. aka. 8

LEE HARVEY OSWALO, aka. - VICTIM.

Deceased

CIVIL RIGHTS

(00 g DL)

Rebute! to all SACE, 11/25/63.

Albuquerque teletype to Dallas.

date.

BOORIM COLRCHTON

Enclosed herewith for; the Dallas Diviston are 32

copies

oach of three page insert to be inserted in the Administrative

section of report submitted to the bureau mentioned in referenced

Bureau teletype dacod 13/25/63

vox the information of the bureau, the sane inforation

ts furnished in referenced albuguerque teletyre to Dallas.

11/25/63, and contains results of negative contacto with informants

faniliar with gambling and hoodlun activitios at Albuquerqua,

Roswall, Grants and Clovis, M.B. Alge {0r

the information of tho

Bureau, contact with AD 206-C revebled that this informant once

not rusy in an unknown hotal in Dallas, Texas, many yours ago,

but was unable to secall any events whatsoever concerning this

contact.

AR 195-FC furnished positive information concerning

RUBY by stating be nat him at the Carousal Club in Dallas, Texas,

on a

visit approxinately cleven months ago.

"Informant advised

RUBY vas à good silend of lou tEsty, Albuquargue resident and

•3 - Bureau

@ - Dallas (BelD -96)

2. Albuquerque

441639-476

SJC/ger

SEARCHED

SERIALIZFO

(7)

..FILED

NOV 2 9 1963

FBI - DALLAS.

NH 54463 • DooId: 32153805 Page

: *2

---

## Page 3

4403921

minor gamblei

Informant learned through JACK HARDES, JR.

the latter presently being a fugitive, (Bufiles 86-21156).

that' Ruby had a "good in" with the Dallas Folice Dapt.. wnich

could be borse out from his observation that rusy had a Bogirl

operation where drinks vera pushed heavily with no interference

from the police department.

AO 195-PC had a briet conversation

with RUBY.

On 11/25/63, LOU LUBBY,

:722 Sundows Place, SE,

Albuquerque, M.M.. who requested his nans be kept confidential,

18 a previously adnitted fosner bookmaker in chicago, Ill

grew up in chicago in the same general area as JACK RUBY. Inown

to him as SPARKY RUBeNSTEIN. States as a child was not closely

acquainted with rusy, but know RUBy's father as the neighborhood

drunk. LEBBY described RUBY.as emotional, unstable and a parson

who made his living prinarily fron "scalping" tickets to sports

events in Chicago and at one tim traveled throughout the

country selling punch boards prior to the senator ReFAUVer

investigations.

LEBBY described RUBY as an extremely stubborn person

and a publicity hound. due to ruby's emotional instability.

LEBBY did not think it unusual unes RuBY was reportedly more ug

set over the death

of the President than the death of his ow

father®

LEBBY said he was surprised when ruby actually killed

OswALD, adding that he would think it nore propar that rUBy

would

shoot him in the leg with a 22 caliber weapon in order

to got publicity.

LEBsY saw RUby approximately la years ago at Dallas,

Tesas.:

for the first time in more than 20 years.

He knew of

RUbY's presence there and visited hit at the Carousel Clus

where they talked briesly of old times.

INabY Know of no

specific connections of RusY at

chicago, Illinois, or with the

Dallas Police Dapt., and Stated that RUlY had no contact with

organized criminal, hoodlum or subversive element.

Ho did not

KhOe OSWALD and knew of no connection botwen the tro.

-210

HH 54463: DocId: 32153805

Page .3

---

## Page 4

• 11/26/63

AIRTER

AIRMALL

70:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

•SAC, ALBUQUERQUE (44-391) (P)

RE:

JACK LEON RUDY. ala.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD; aka. - VICTIM,

Daceased

CIVIL RIGHES

(00% DI)

ReButel to all SACS, 11/25/63.

Albuquerque teletypa to Dallas.

same date.

HOODLUM CONNECRION

Enclosed herewith for the Dallas Division ara 32 copies

each of three page insort to be inserted in the Adminiotrative

section of report submitted to the Bureau mentioned in roferenced

Bureau: teletype datod 11/25/63.

For the information of the bureau, the same information

to furnished in saferenced Albuguerque teletype to Dallas.

11/25/63, and contains results of nogative contacte with informanta

familiar with gambling and hoodlun activities at Albuquerque.

Roswall, Grants and Clovis. ill.

Also fox the information of the

Bureau, contact with AQ 304-C revealed that this informant once

nat ruBy in an unknown hotel in Dallas. Tenas, many years ago..

but was unable to recall any eventa whatsoever concerning this

contact.

AQ 195-P furnished positive information concerning:

ausy by stating he mat him at the Carousol club in Dallas, Texas.

on a visit approximately eleven nonths ago. Informant advised

nuay was a good friend of lou lessy. albuquerque residont and

3. - Bureau

C- ballas (50039 96) 44-1639-476

2 • Albuquerque

SEARCHED

SJC/gep

INDEXED

SERIALITTE

A FILED

(7)

.....

NOV 2 9 1963

FBI - DALLAS

HH 54463 DooId: 32153805 Page 4

---

## Page 5

AQ

-44-391

minor ganbler Informant learned through JACK HARDEE, JR..

the latter presently being a fugitive, (suftle: 88-21156).

that RUBy had a

"good In" with

the Dallas Police Dapt., which

would be borne out from his observation that rusy had a Bigfri

operation where drinks were pushed heavily with no interference

from the police department.

AQ 195-PC had a brief conversation

wịth RUBY

On 11/25/63, LOU LEBBY, 722 Sundorn Place, SE,

Albuquerque, IM, uno reguested his name be kepe confidential.

is a previously admitted former bookmaker in Chicago. Ill.

grey up in Chicago in the sane general area as JACK RUBy, known

to him as SPARKY rUBENSTEIN.

states as a child vas not closely

acquainted with RUbY.

but knew RUsY's father as the neighborhood

drunk. IaBBY described rusy as enocional, unstable and a person

who made his living primarily fron

"scalping" tickets to sports

events

In Chicago and at one time traveled throughout the

country selling punch boards prior to the senator KEFAUVER

investigations.

LEsBY described RuBY as an extremely stubborn person

and

a publicity hound due to RUby's

enotional instability.

LEBBY did not think it unusual when RusY was reportedly more up

set over the death of the President than the death of his own

father®

LEBBY said he was surprised then ruBY actually killed

OSWALD, adding that he would think it more proper that ruBy

would shoot him in the leg with

a:22 callber weapon in order

to get publicity.

LEBBY SaW RUbY approximately la years ago at Dallas.

Texas, for the

first time in more than

20 years.. He knew.of

RUBY's presence there and visited him at the carousel Club

where they talked bylefly of old times.

LEBBY knew of no

specific connections of RUBY at Chicago, Illinois. or with the

Dallas police bept. and stated that RUbY had no contact with

organized criminal. hoodlum or subversive element. He

did not

know OSWALD and knew of no connection between the two.

Nw 54463 DocId:32153805 Page 5

1-25

---

