# docid-32204567

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

ROCKCOM

178-10003-10048

RECORD SERIES: ASSASSINATION FILE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ASSASSINATION MATERIALS-MISC. ROCK/CIA (11)

Document Information

eleased under

the John

F.

enned:

issassination Records

Collection

ACt

SE 1992

144

2107 Notel.

Cased : NU

55355 Date: 11-24-2017

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CARTER, MARSHALL S.

10: RECORD

TITLE: MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/08/1962

2

KENNEDY, JOHN F.

CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS

CIA

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

IB

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

re Cuban operations

v9.1

HH 55355

DocId: 32204567

Page 1

79

---

## Page 2

178-10003-10048

XS C7V

8 September 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

F0?0

I met with Mr. Bundy this afternoon at the White House

and accomplished the following:

?..

I informed him that we would fly our next U-2 mission

over Cuba as soon as the weather was right, probably around

Monday. I told him that this was our last approved one and

I would be hitting him early next week for further approvals.

We discussed the air defense dangers and I mentioned casually

the possibility of running two planes concurrently to assist in

confusing the air defenses.. He felt this would require Special

Group consideration and I agreed.

b. Ileft him the original of Attachment #l to BYE: 3722-62.

He found it entirely adequate and said he would show it to the

President on Monday. (This has to do with instructions

; to pilots

overflying Cuba, and other related subjects.)

c. I showed him Joe Charyk's memorandum on responses

developed in connection with the recent U-2 episode over

Sakhalin.

He was interested and said he would get the original

from General Taylor's office.

d. I reported Senator Holland's activities in Florida and

told him we were playing it in extremely low key. He agreed

and said that there was nothing to be concerned about, that we

would always have this type of activity by Senator Holland, and

that he was not operating under any Presidential instructions

but there was no point in making anything of it.

e. Itold Mr. Bundy that I had tried to put in writing the

President's concern about internal uprisings in Cuba and had

found it most difficult; accordingly I had passed the word orally

and was sure that our people understood what was wanted. He

agreed that we should not attempt to put anything in writing.

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE GERALD

FORD LIBPARY

R}-EM-3125-62

Gapy t0t.

t..

HH 55355

DooId:32204567 Page 2

---

## Page 3

- 2 -

f. I left with him the original of the memorandum on British

Guiana. (I also left the first page of the carbon.) He said he

would inform the President.

2. In addition to all the foregoing, I informed him of the recent

TACKLE flight, of the drop zones, and of our plans for Taiwan Straits

tonight.

I also told him that we had cranked Cuba into the next "C"

shot and that we were now holding for weather. I also told him of the

newly acquired Medium Range Ballistic Missile near Anadyr.

3. In connection with the recent clamp on NPIC output, I told

him that as far as the general Intelligence Community was aware, this

clamp had been directed by me as Acting DCI and not by any higher

authority, that there were only a very limited number of people at the

top echelon who knew that higher authority had in fact directed this.

He seemed reassured and was happy that it had been handled in this way:

We will continue this very closely held "need-to-know" activity until

further notice insofar as it deals with an aggressive capability from

Cuba.

4. I consider the meeting most successful and plan to do this

several times a week. Mr. Knoche, please bear this in mind so that

you can keep feeding me similar items of information and action for

these meetings.

LIB

070839

PHOTOCOPY

FROM

THE GERALD R.

FORD LIBPARY.

Marshall S

Carter

Lieutenant General, USA

Acting Director

MSC:biP

Distribution:

Gopy 1 - DDCI

Copy 2-EA/DCI w/baur ground memorand i

ARTY

Capy _ at

88 C.I

HH 55355 DocId: 32204567 Page 3

---

