# docid-32335341

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90123-10007

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-138350-239

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LS

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/25/1950

* PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS :

PAUL M. RAIGORODSK Y

NEONILA SHEVKO MAGIDOFF

-DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; IC

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

1.....

v9.1

DocId: 32335341

Page

1

---

## Page 2

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARE FO..

10. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: Director, FBI

SECREL

DATE: 1-25-50

JUROM : SAC, LOUiSVille

.. SUBJECT:

NEONILA SHEVKO NAGIDOFF, waS ;

ROBERT. LAGIDOFF;

ESPIONAGE - R

(Bufile 100-138350)

C

AET ENECPYATICN CONTAINES

O2FTEEED

Rebulet 1-12-50 suggesting that this investigation be brought

to an early and logical conclusion, and the report of SA GEORGE

W. HUTCHISON, dated 1-25-50 at Louisville, transmitted herewith.

=

All outstanding undeveloped leads have been covered at the present le

time and it would appear tò be a logical point to consider the ad-

•visability of taking further action or closing the case.

A

large part of the investigation conducted since Louisville was

made office of origin has been designed to run down some of the

allegations made concerning the subjects early in the investiga-

tion which, becguse of the unavailibility of original sources,

5

was not possible earlier in the investigation.

A thorough review of this file had been made. Hereinafter will

be summarized briefly what appears to be the most derogatory in-

formation and allegations developed.

3

Some of the ellegations, it will be noted when traced to their.

original sources, lost their original significance. Much of thet

information concerning contacts between the subjects of this case

and subjects of other Pureau cases cannot be traced further and

the significance of most of these contacts cannot be fully ap-

praised by this office because of lack of complete information

corcerning the other subjects.

zackground of this case is set out in numerous letters, memos

and reports.

It will not be repeated except as necessary in

connection with the purpose of this conmunication.

Utia

Mass

Declassifi

ALLEGED C.P. WELBERSHIP OF ROBERT NAGIDOFF

The report of SA EDWARD F. MILES, 12-27-48, New York City, reflecto

an interview with hir. LISTON I. OAK, INew Leader", Y East 15th Street,

New York, New York,

in which OAK is reported as furnishing information

CE CARRIANE

Ls #100-3130

enclosure-l

lee: New York

14 53 19503

K1/6

RECORDED

160-135

CONFI

SENTIAL

FiLES

PERS

1962

DocId: 32335341

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)?'

BATE: 11-14-2017

Ls #100-3130

VASSILI AFZUBELIN (COMMINTERN APPARATUS)

The report of SA EDWARD F. MILES, 7-26-45, New York City, (page 3) re-

WiPE VASSILISE, 1911, WAGIDOFF (NILA) attempted to contact the

•ZUBELIN, USSR diplomat, talking to LuBiLly at the

Russian Embassy, Washington, D.C.

ZUBELIN was identified as "a promi-

nent

subject"

in the

case entitled "Comintern Apparatus", Internal

Security - R".

PAUL MARK RAIGORODSKY

flects that RAIGORODSKY is an oil operator of soms wealth; his ex-wife

was reported to have been active in the Communist Party in 'San Antonio

in 1941 but that there was no indication of such activity on the part

Of RAIGORODSKY. RAIGORODSKY waS born in Russia. (1C0-/3855O1/5

-GEORGE PRIVINSKY; AMERICAN SLAV CONGRESS

The report of SA EDWARD F. MILES, 1-28-46, New York City, page 3, re-

flects that GEORGE PRIVINSKY, Executive Secretary of the American Slav

ETHRIDGE WaS NILA MAGIDOFF'S

+.

boss

and if so how to got in touch with her to see if she could in-

fluence ETHRIDGE's report on the Balkans.

Prior to subject's departure

for the USSR, she had a conversation with PRIVINSKY in which she stated

she would do all she could for the congress -- presumably the American

Slav Congress -- while she was in Moscow.

On page 4 of this report it

is indicated that PRIVINSKY was present at a cocktail party in honor of

NILA LAGIPOPE ON JUly 9, 1945, at the Plaza lotel, (100-138250-11')

The report of SA THEODORE G. KIRSHNER, 11-24-44, New York City, stated

that the Daily Worker of March 19, 1944, reported that Mrs. MAGIDOFF

gave a talk at the American Soviet Congress of Michigan at

a hotel in

Detroit, Michigan. It is suggested that this organization is possibly

the American-slav Congress rather than American-Soviet Congress•

CONTACTS WITH CANADIAN COMMUNIST PARTY FIGURES

250-7

The report of SA EDWARD F. MILES, 1-28-46, New York City, reflects that

on March 21, 1945, NILA MAGIDOFF

received a letter from 3638 Lorne Cres-

cent, Montreal and it was recalled that 3670 Lorne Crescent, Montreal was

the addrass of RAYMOND BOYER, a figure in Canadian Soviet Espionage circles.

-7.

(102-138550-111)

DocId:32335341 Page 3

---

