# docid-32306068

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10289-10198

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2190

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/22/1967

"PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, DANGELO BROTHERS, MURDER, FUNERAL,

GANGLAND WARFARE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306068

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

RATE (V-3923977

FBI

Date:

11/22/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, MIAMI (92-853) (P)

RE :

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(00: NEW YORK)

Re Miami airtel, 11/14/67.

On 11/21/67, MM 676-C advised that JAMES PALACINO,

uncle of TOMMY D'ANGELO, has returned to Miami have attended

the funeral of the D'ANGELO brothers in New York City.

MM 676-C advised that PALACINO related the following

info:

TOMMY D'ANGELO, whom PALACINO refers to as "Smitty"

was killed with his brother in a bar type cafe and nine •45

caliber plugs hit "Smitty".

The assassin came out of

the kitchen wearing a small hat and sunglasses and pulled a

machine gun out from his coat, firing at the D'ANGELOs and

a third person.

According to PALACINO, a third D'ANGELO

brother had left the table where the others were sitting and

was in a phone booth at the time of the shooting.

This brother

witnessed the killer and his identity is known to "their side".

PALACINO said the killer was a bodyguard for JOHNNY (LNU)

and that JOHNNY had been

a partner of "Smitty" in numbers,,

shylocking, etc. JOHNNY's bodyguard supposedly was paid &

$30,000.00 for this hit.

REC-22,

916854621901

Bishop

EX 101

& NOV 24 1967

- Bureau

- New York (92-2300)

92-853

137-1690

92-1095

- 92-404

WFH/bab

SPIC

(9)

Approved:

L200

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306068

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-853

MM 676-C advised that "Smitty" broke with

the Bonnano Family during the period of JOE BONNANO's

absence and that his partner, JOHNNY, remained with the

Bonnano Family•

"Smitty" had

been warned about the individual

who shot him.

PALACINO related to MM 676-C that nine individuals

including JOE BONNANO, were scheduled for hits over this

situation and that one of them had already been killed in

New Brunswick, New Jersey.

PALACINO advised MM 676-C that he anticipated

extensive gangland warfare between the two factions.

PALACINO also related that he had been interviewed

while in New York by authorities concerning the D'ANGELO

murder but did not state the identity of these authorities.

Miami is considering the interview of PALACINO

and if he has been interviewed by New York if is requested

that the Miami Office be

advised.

DocId: 32306068

Page 3

---

