# docid-32305077

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10287-10207

HQ

92-6054-2ND NR 649

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/05/1964

' PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

LCN, ASSOC, NUMBERS GAME, GAMBLING, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32305077

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-53)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F BI

Date:

6/5/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority)

426

JU

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

FROM: SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127)

RE:

CAVBOMB

LA COSA NOSTRA

Re Cleveland airtel to Bureau dated 5/28/64, and

Bureau airtel to Cleveland dated 6/1/64.

Re: "CALABRESE ORGANIZATION"

CV-278-C-TE was recontacted on 6/4/64 and he advised

that DOMINICK MALLAMO exhibited the photos of SAs STANLEY E.

PETERSON and FRANK G. DOUDS to him so there would be no doubt

that he would know them and be able to recognize them and to

have nothing to do with them at any time.

He stated that

following his viewing of the photos, MALLAMO told him that he

wanted him to work as a lookout at the C.M.A.S. Club, and he

stated that it is his impression that that was

the reason

MALLAMO wanted the Informant to know the Agents, so that he

could readily recognize and identify them should they come

to the Club that evening for any reason.

Informant further

stated that when MALLAMO showed him the photos, he took them

from his wallet; however, he is not certain as

to whether or

not he carries them in his wallet at all times.

Informant

Bureau (RM)

(2-62-9-11) (2-92-6054)

6054

8 - Cleveland

NOT RECORDED

(1 - 92-621)

- 92-718

1

92-473)

183 JUN 17 1984

1 - 92-808)

- 137-29. SA)

SEP / jmo

CARBON COPY,

(15)

Approved:

Sent

M Per

Special

Ag

Charge

191964

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32305077 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CV 157-127

was questioned as to the origin of the photos, and he advised

that he asked MALLAMO where he obtained chem,

and MALLAMO.

told him they were copied from a newspaper photo. Informant

stated, however, that he could not be sure that the photos

were copies from a newspaper, in that they were clear and

were not full length photos, and only were from the waist up.

Regarding

the possibility of MALLAMO being questioned

at any time by local authorities,

Locating these photos, this would seem rather doubtful at this

the se

time.

In view of MALLAMO's association and influence with

officers, of the Youngstown PD, It is rather improbable that

he will be picked up and questioned by local authorities.

It is further to be noted that CV-278-C-IE stated he has

heard that MALLAMO committed a murder in Youngstown in the

except that he left Youngstown for a period of time. Further,

during the early 1940's following a State rackets investigation,

and no record of same is maintained in the Identification

Division of the Youngstown PD.

This office will remain alert, however, to MALLAMO's

being questioned at any time by local authorities, and if the

occasion arises, an attempt will be made to locate these photos.

Re:

PROSECUTION IN LOCAL MAHONING COUNTY

COURT OF COMMON PLEAS. YOUNGSTOWN

Regarding ANTHONY "BOOZE" GIANFRANCESCO, previOuslY

convicted for promotion of a numbers game and who did not

appear as ordered by the court, it is to be noted that

Mahoning County Prosecutor CLYDE W. OSBORNE advised that on

5/22/64 the U. S. Supreme Court ordered that GIANFRANCESCO be

admitted to bail pending fiiing and disposition of a petition

for writ of certiorari.

The stay was conditioned upon his

posting of a $5,000 bail bond with the Seventh District Court

of Appeals of Ohio.

Mahoning County Frosecutor OSBORNE advised that

tentative

arrangements have been made for DAVID COMAN,

previously indicted by the Manoning County GJ, to come into

Common Pleas Courü before Judge SIDNEY RIGELHAUPT with his

-2-

DocId: 32305077 Page 3

---

