# docid-32303159

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10283-10171

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-21ST NR 102

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

10/02/1961

PAGES :

1

SUBJECTS :

SMO, MED, GM, ASSOC, GAMBLING, RAID

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32303159

Page 1

26

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44. USe 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-1423017

ite!

Mr.

Mr.

Bett

Mr: Mohasi

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IN EST'CHNIUN

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OC12

1961

TELETYPE

Mr: Callahan.

Mr, Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mt. Evans.

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

URGENT

10-2-61

Mr. Trotter

6-09 PM EDST

DLH

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2914

92-2918

Miss Gandy

ANd FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH

92-236

92-228

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA•S AR

SAMUEL

ANNARING AKA • AR.

ON OCTOBER TWO, INSTANT, PE SIX ONE TWO DASH C ADVISED THAT

WILLIE SAMS, IN CHARGE OF MANNARINO WAGERING AGTIVITIES AND

OTHERS ARRESTED IN THE IRS RAID OF AUGUST TWENTYFOUR, LAST,

ARE QUOTE PLENTY WORRIED. UNQUOTE, SAMS RECENTLY HAD LABELS

REMOVED FROM ALL HIS CLOTHES, REASON NOT KNOWN. INSTEAD

OF FORMER SYSTEM OF PICKING UP NUMBERS SLIPS ONCE EACH DAY,

THEY ARE NOW PICKED UP THREE TIMES DAILY SO THAT ANY

FOLLOW-UP RAID WILL NOT GET ENTIRE DAY-S TAKE. PICK-UP

MEN ARE CHANGED ALMOST DAILY TO MAKE SURVEILLANCES MORE

DIFFICULT AND BECAUSE PICK-UP MEN DO NOT HAVE TO HAVE

FEDERAL WAGERING TAX STAMP. ON SEPT. TWENTYFIVE; LAST,

SAM MANNARINO HAD WHAT WAS BELIEVED TO BE A MILD

STROKE AND WAS CARRIED FROM HIS BONFIRE RESTAURANT NEAR

LEECHBURG, PA., BUT HE WAS BACK WORKING THRE ON 92-2918-

SEPT TWENTYNINE LAST. INFORMATION DISSEMINATED LOCALLY

• IRS: BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS

798 OCT 3

- 2914

, FILED IN

ORIGINAL

END AND ACK PLS

6-14 PM OK FBI WA JA

n11:.

TU DISC

56 ост 6

1961

DocId: 32303159 Page 2

---

