# docid-32303169

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10283-10181

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-105

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NT 45654 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/26/1961

PAGES :

27

SUBJECTS :

SMO, MED/PERS HISTORY, BKG, RES, TRA, ASSOC, NRO, B/F

INT, OC, GAMBLING, POLIT, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 45854

31

DocId: 32303169

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TASK FORCE

IRS

BY. PSIJFK

PG 92-228

this report has been delaved due to the preoccupa RELEASE N PART

ADMINISTRATIVE

RELEASE IN FULL

preparing Special Agent with important investiga

aspects

of this and related cases.

Information in this report of possible value to the Internal

Revenue Service has been furnished orally to Special Agent

JACK SCHWARTZ, Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service,

Pittsburgh,

ÜFK Law 11(a)

on 7/28/61,

SA FORSYTH contacted PG 612-C concerning this matter

and on 7/31/61 PG 612-C advised that the girl is CHRISTINE "CHRI

SUPRANO, 010-2nd Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.

on 7/31/61, the above name was furnished to Agent SCHWARTZ, and

8/1/61 SCHWARTZ advised that NOLL affirmed that CHRIS SUPRANO

the girl to whom he had referred.

on 8/1/61

with tastimony of about 29 other witnesses before thel

would probably result in IRS indictments against SAM

and KELLY MANNARINO plUS WILLIE SAMS, as proprietors of Nuken

Novelty Company, and against JENNIE MORENO, RAY CALGAGNO and TON

WARDOCLIP, as employees. JEK Law 10(a)2

-B-

92-2918-105

COVER PAGE

ll(a)

10(1(2)

HH

45854 DooId:32303169 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

INFORMANTS

The I symbols utilized in this report will be the same, where

applicable, as those used in the special summary report of

7/24/61:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C.

PG. I-3 is PG 615-C.

PG T-10 is PCI!

PG T-15 is PCIL

JEK ACE

Pittsburgh, Pa. - to Be delefed

New Kensington, Pa. - To Be delefed

Pa I-2I is JOSEPH R. MEROLA, Miami Beach, Florida, who furnishea.

information on 8/14-15/61 at Miami, Florida, to Pittsburgh Special

Agents THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III and JOHN S. PORTELLA.

JFK Act 6 (4)

formerly MM 722-C, requested his identity be protected, and

JFK Act 6 (4)is now incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution

at Tallahassee, Florida.

_C*-

COVER PAGE

HH

45854

DocId: 32303169

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-228

Prostitution and Narcotics

In August, 1961, PG I-21 advised:

Neither KELLY nor SAMUEL MANNARINO has ever been known to traffic

in narcotics or to operate prostitution.

E. POLICE PROTECTION AND POLITICAL TIES

In August, 1961, PG T-21 advised:

New Kensington; Pa., Mayor RAYMOND GARDLOCK and the majority of his

city councilmen have been "owned"

by the MANNARINOs since their

election approximately eight years ago. "wired" the New Kensington

At one time, JOSEPH MEROLA,

at the instructions of KELLY MANNARINO,

City Council. Chambers so that tape recordings of the proceedings

could be made.

Chief JOHN BORDINARO, New Kensington, Pa., Police Department, is

the personal selection for that job of KELLY MANNARINO.

It is noted that Mayor RAYMOND GARDLOCK Of New Kensington was

defeated in the primary elections of May, 1961, and will not be

a candidate for re-election in the general elections of November,

1961.

F. PENDING PROSECUTIVE ACTION

It is noted that it has been reported previously that SAMUEL

MANNARINO has been under indictment in the United States District

Court, Chicago, Illinois, since 1959 on a charge of aiding and

abetting in the use of a

wire or radio communication in a scheme

to defraud a Swiss bank, in connection with the pledging of some

of the Canadian Government bonds which had been

stolen from a

bank in Brockville, Ontario, Canada, in October, 1958.

On October 17, 1961, SAMUEL MANNARINO appeared before the United

States District Court, Chicago, Illinois, in order that trial date

on the above charge might be set. However, the Unitea states

District Court ruled that they would take no action as regards

setting of trial date until other defendants, including NORMAN

ROTHMAN, currently incarcerated at the Federal Penitentiary in

Atlanta, Georgia, could be brought before the court personally.

Appearance of the defendants was rescheduled for October 31, 1961,

at which time the United States District Court would set trial date.

21

NW 45854 DooId: 32303169 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-228

H. CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

PG T-2

is a New Kensington, Pa., numbers writer

formerly connected with prostitution activities.

PG .T-3

is a physician, whose professional services have

, on occasion, been used by members of the MANNARINO

organization and who frequents MANNARINO controlled

gambling and after-hours establishments.

PG T-21 is an individual whose experience has included

used cars, prostitution, smuggling, burglary

and robbery.

He has been friends with the

MANNARINOs for about fifteen years and undoubtedly.

will continue his association with them in the

future.

20C1641

23*

174 45854

DocId: 32303169

Page 5

---

