# docid-32303165

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10283-10177

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-2ND NR 103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/19/1961

2

SMO, TRA, CANADA, ASSOC, NRO, GM, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32303165

Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Notey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

U.S. DONARTMENT OF JUSTICA

COMMUNICATIONS

SaC

OCT. 1 9 1961

TELETYPE

matinda

Mir. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohi

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

11. Debone

Tr. EvansA

Mr. Malone

Mr.' Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trottori

Teles Mone

Mr. Ingram

Mins Gandy.

URGENT 10-19-61

4-00 PM DCY

VO, DIRECTOR, FBI

Slaves

FROM, SAG, PITTSBURGH

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR, SAMUEL MANNARINO AKA, AR• :

ON

OCT • NINETEEN INSTANT, PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISED AS

FOLLOWS. IN THE NEAR FUTURE SAM MANNARINO IS LEAVING FOR A

HUNTING TRIP TO PROVINCE OF NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA, MEANS NOT

KNOWN, KELLY MANNARINO

IS AVOIDING ALL CONTACT WITH HIS EMPLOYEES

AND GAMBLING ASSOCIATES, DUE TO THE QUOTE HEAT UNQUOTE FROM

VARIOUS: LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES, BUT OCCASIONALLY STILL VISITS

JOSEPH AND LOUIS VOLPE, WHO CONTROL GAMBLING IN TURTLE CREEK

VALLEY SECTION OF ALLEGHENY COUNTRY, PA•, FOR SOCIAL CARD GAMES,

AND A PROSTITUTE WHO IS VISITED BY SOME MEMBERS OF THE

MANNARINO GROUP SAID SHE HEARD DIRECTLY THAT KELLY MANNARINO IS

GETTING READY TO MOVE HIS WHOLE OPERATION FROM NEW KENSINGTON,

PA., INTO SOMEPLACE IN ALLEGHENY COUNTY. NOTE THAT BUREAU HAS

BEEN ADVISED PREVIOUSLY THAT INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED THAT

THE MANNARINO GROUP WAS NEGOTIATING A MOVE INTO VERONA, ALLEGHENY

END PACE ONE

92-

92 - 9918

KH 0CT22 1961

25-32191

198 OCT 24 1961

THD

26

57 0CT 26

DocId: 32303165 Page 2

---

