# docid-32288552

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10328

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1412

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/27/1964

5

SGI, ACT, ASSOC, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

1B

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/10/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288552 Page 1

196

---

## Page 2

Released undér the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

Optional Form No. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

JUNE

MEMORANDUM

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-3171)

DATE:- 5/27/64

SUBJECT:

: SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-Sub E)

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF

TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

Title SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UNCLASUIMED

DATE 4-23-34 BYSP5RJ6/

Character of Case

Field office CHICAGo?

Symbol Number

CG 6486-C*

Type of Surveillance:

(rochnicat

I71.

or Microphone)

I. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SAMUEL GIANCANA and associates

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room numbér or

area covered:

Armory Lounge

7424 West Roosevelt Road

Forest Park,

Illinois - Private office of owner

3. Locatian of monitoring plant:

Central Tesur Plant

Chicago Office - 536 South Clark Street

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

8/8/61

8/16/62 and 8/6/63

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates

and places): Originally installed 8/8/61

Temporarily discontinued 4/19/62

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following

questions:

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Bureau

-

Chicago.,

MER: dkz

REC. 46

42-3171-1412

(2).

Registered Mail

I Xerox copy

made ani touch pt

80T. Section for M

anch: file

62₴

6/8/68

& JUN & 1964

6% JUN

DocId: 32288552

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 OSC 2107 Hote) •

/ DATE:. 11-14-2017

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?:

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state

number of microphones

actually used and location of each: 1 "mite" unit recessed

behind wood paneling at mid-section of restaurant and

second "mite" unit recessed in baseboard in front section of

8. Is

staupastallation part of a tel-mike? lI so, give symbol of

other side of the combination:

NO

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous

report with indication of specific value of each item and the date

information received. State what use was made of each item

involved: (Add insert pages)

NA See attached

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and

by other means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage

12. Has security

factor changed since installation?

NO

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name,

title and agency):

NO

11. Cost of Plant Premises: None

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored

at

same plant.

- 2

DocId: 32288552 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Hote)

DATE:, 11-14-2017

c. If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special

Agents working at plant and total salary costs.

5 SE'S

$44,045.00

1. SA

1 SA

$12,975.00

$10, 700.00

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

200 hrs. or 100% of week

c. Il Sther installations moitorea it done Bfaweek

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance: CG 6486-C* - 18 hours

per week or 15% of total work week of SE's:

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6486-C*

$3, 533:85

17. Remarks (by SAC):

It is noted that this source has not been overly

productive during the last 90 day period; however, the Chicago

Division made re-entry within that period and relocated a second

"mite" unit in the front portion of the Armory Lounge which it is

felt will

be more productive in the future.

of sufficient time and/'security purposes;

tin the future he

However, due to lack.

the completion of this

installation was not accomplished..

It is felt that this location

is still the number one location for GIANCANA's headquarters and

the Chicago Division is doing its utmost to complete relocation of

source.

In view of above, it is recommended that this source

be continued for an additional 90 days VACB. (U)

-3.

DocId: 32288552 Page 4

---

