# docid-32159192

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10130-10198

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-32965-22

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: NIS

FROM:

NIS

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/16/1942

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: DEMOH, BKG, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/22/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32159192

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4C31:29 01.

5668 SL0/GCL

0:1!/22/97

April 16, 1942

PERSONAL, AND

Re: SEÑORA LILIA PARDONDE LARIN

GEORG VONCUOHRENSCHILDT

1942,

Reference is had to Bureau letter of March 13,

Nazi

which reflects that GEORG VON MOHRENSCHILDI, a

sympathizer and possibly a German agent, has spent

much time in

Mexico City

• in the company of Señora LILIA

PARDO DE LARIN, widow of the chocolate magnate, who has

access to the best social, government, and diplomatic

circles in Mexico.

Investigation in Mexico City discloses that

MOHRENSCHILDT entered Mexico through Laredo, Texas,

during February, 1941 and had Mexican Tourist Card #543,125

good for a period of six months.

At the end of the six

months period MOHRENSCHILDI secured a five-months ex-

tension, allowable by the law,

for his tourist card.

While in Mexico City VON MOHRENSCHILDT resided at Paseo

de la Reforma 237; Apartment 11A.

It has been ascertained

from Mrs. LARIN that subject departed Mexico City for

New York

City about one month ago.

A check at the Leischman

Bank in Mexico City discloses that VON MOHRENSCHILDI had a

small stock trading account with that bank which he opened

on

August 30, 1941, with a deposit of $100.

Subject closed

this account on February 37: 1942, and at that time: was

trading on 1000

and

20 shares of, Humble O1l and Refining..

umb are sun a ming chockn

Informant #14

states that MOHRENSCHILDI is thirty"

years of age and singas,

'and that in his dossier in the

Government through the Mexican

are he be so Coveragent aroger to sease int

took

100-

SmAaAril 150a% Cotaulete General 1n Mexico

SEñora LILIA PARDORDERIARIN INVESTISATION

appeared

at the

city,

seeking a visit

до

A® this Pt ime

342

15 30 bH

U.S. Uerandati?

ULiSTICE

---

