# docid-32305788

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10418

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2407

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: EDGERTON, HAROLD J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/26/1968

'PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

LCN, BOSS, JFC, DL, TX, EXISTENCE, ORGANIZATION AND

LEADERSHIP, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT,

CONSPIRATORIAL ASPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32305788

Page 1

---

## Page 2

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-268 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TILE OF CASE

NEW YORK

DATE

8/26/68

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/18/68 - 8/15/68

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

CHA: ACTER OF CASE

LA COSA NOSTRA

jws

REFERENCES:

AR - CONSPIRACY

Report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 9/11/67 at Dallas.

Report of SA ROBERT G. O'NEIL dated 10/20/67 at New York.

Buairtel to New York dated 7/24/68.

LEADS:

HOUSTON, KANSAS CITY, LOS ANGELES, NEW ORLEANS - INFORMATION:

One copy each of this report to above offices for information

as each office has

some interest in the Dallas LCN family due to prior

contacts with known figures in those areas.

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK.

Two. copies forwarded to New York

for praparation of the overall summary in line with Bureau instructions.

PENDING PROSECUTI

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED: NONE; PENDING OVER ONE YEAR: NO; OVER SIX MONTHS:

SPECIAL AGEA

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

-Bureau (92-6054) (RM)

I-Hous ton (92-298) (RM) (INFO)

1-Kansas City (92-883) (RM) (INFO)

1-Los Angeles

(92-1112) (RM) (INFO)

1-New Orleans

(82-365) (RM) (INFO)

2-New York (92-2300) (RM)

2-Dallas (92-383)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-

240 VEX-100

REC 43

15 AUG 29 1968

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AXG

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. _..

HOW FWD.

Orse

54 SEP27 1968

SIA

watring

DocId: 32305788

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Same T symbols were used in this report, same as for the

prior report, where appropriate and DL T=15 has been added.

DI T1

is DL 105-C,

DL T-3

is

DL

DI. 299-PC,

T:4

is

NY 3123-C*,

DL

T -5

is

DL

T- 6

is

LA 4448-C-TE,

NY 4857-C-TE,

DL

T -7

is NO 1490-C,

T - 9

is DL 99-C,

DL

T=10 is DI L35-C-TE,

T-ll is

• LA 4448-C-TE,

DL T-12 is LA 4448-C-TE,

DL. T-14 is DL 324-PC.

Multiple T symbols were used for LA 4448-C-TE to further

protect his

identity.

-B*=

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32305788

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 92-383

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

A. EXISTENCE

There has been no change in the established existence

of the La Cosa Nostra

"group" in Dallas, Texas, since Last

reported. this is briety restated as follows.

on March 31, 1959, DL T-l advised that during the 1920's

there had been an Italian organization in the Dallas, Texas area,

at that time under the control of CARLO T. PIRANIO.

Following the

death of PIRANIO on February 20, 1930, his brother and business part-

ner JOSEPH T. PIRANIO continued as head

of the organization until his

death by suicide on Ocrober 27, 1956.

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO upon

the death of JOSEPH T. PIRANIO succeeded JOSEPH T. PIRANIO as head

man of the organization in Dallas, Texas. DI T-l on the above

occasion described CIVELLO as the

had man in Dallas and is the Dallas

representative of the

nationwide Italian criminal organization.

As to the makeup of the Italian organization in Dallas, as

described by DL T=1 above, DL T-3, reported the following on May 31,

1966, which information is alleged to have been furnished to DL I-3

directly by a very close associate of CIVELLO who indicated that he

had obtained the information directly from CIVELLO.

DL T-3 had

obtained the information from his

mation is summarized as follows:

source on May 28, 1966. This infor-

During the

had has their

1920's a "group" of Italians in Dallas, Texas,

"'bOSS" CARLOW PIRANIO and the "under boss" was

CARLO'S

brother, JOSEPH PIRANIO.

JOSEPH PIRANIO took over as "boss" upon the

death of his brother in 1930.

Members of that group in addition

to the PIRANIO brothers were JOSEPH CIVELLO, ROSS MUSSO, FRANK IANNI,

RALPH PATRONO, PHILIP CIVELLO, CARLOS CAMPISI, PETER DUCA (PETER MICHAEL

LUCA, and ROSS INTERRANTE. This group engaged in some narcotics,

gambling and fencing, but never on a large scale as all of the rackets

in Dallas were then controlled by non- Italian hoodlums.

Through the

PIRANIO brothers the group had connections with an Italian group in the

Houston • Galveston, Texas areas, but the PIRANIO brothers were the

bosses for both

groups. CIVELLO had

bragged that under

the PIRANIO

brothers that at that time the group was smally

but well organized, and

through the PIRANIOs the group also

had connections "up East" and

CIVELLO had identified one

'of these contacts as ROCCO PELLEGRINO (01

White Plains, New York, identified member of the La Cosa Nostra).

20

DocId: 32305788

Page 4

---

