# docid-32332624

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90103-10025

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2940-406

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/28/1963

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332624

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 16-743-72-28-601

• • OPTIONAL PORM NO. 1°

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SICKEN

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-2940

JUNE

DATE: 6/28/63

WAA PARON

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA

ROCCA, aka.

29/94

Classifted

Declassity on: OAD

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

PITTSBURGH

Symbol Number

PG, 622-C*

PA.

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone) Microphone (MUTT

Confing

(installation)

1.

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTÍAN. JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.)

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Company

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh FBI Office,

450 Union Trust Building, Fifth

Avenue and Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization:

1/26/61

INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIFIED

SHICWN:

WHENE

AL.I.

HEREIN

ACEPT

OTHERWICE

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

5.

Previous"and other installations on the same subject (with dates and place E

No other installations

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sco/Ge

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X CJ6)

(JFK) 3/10/98

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

(There is no tesur involved in this installation.)

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

200z

PRECH 691

4i 2

2970 - 6010

0:1a:

Is the surveillance on a switchboardX-102

11

2 JUL

7 1963

Is the surveillance on a public, coin operated telephone?

poureau

-Pittsburgh

RAVEMO 621063

O Resistered Mail

SECRET

SPEC

DocId: 32332624 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

•DATE: 11-14-2017

SECKEU

PG 92-226-sub 2

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

state what use was made of each item involved:

(Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages. All information was utilized

for

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

where pertinent.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live informants

furnishing information relative to the North Star Cement Block

• Company.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No change.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

No requests made.

14. Cost of

Plant Premises:

a.

Rental costs for plant premises:

None (costs included in office rental)

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

(S)

wo units of a tesur (PG 177-S*) were activated on 6/6/0225

One unit of a misur (PG 180-g*

was activated on 8/23/62

One unit of a misur (PG 685-C*) was activated on 6/14/63.:

SECRET

-2-

DocId: 32332624 Page 3

---

