# docid-32297089

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10218-10365

HQ

105-72630-31

Document Information,

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: WIGHTMAN, WILLIAM A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

40-03-2017

DATE: 09/23/1959

'PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

PDL, MIL, CUBA, REL, ASSOC, DEFECTION, US, TEST, SEN,

ACA, RES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32297089

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Rer. Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU Of INVESTIGATION

Reporting Ofice

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origia

MIAMI

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ

LANZ

Dato

9/23/59

Investigative Period

4/1-9/21/59

Report made by

WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

Typed By:

ush

CIA HAS NO OBECTION TENTERNAL SECURITY - CUB.

JECLASSISCATCE AND/OR

RELEASE UP CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

× 7-29-97

-C-

. In

NEXEI

PRATION CRETEN

UAGLASSIIED

BIE SHOWN

ADMINISTRATIVE

Reference Is made to my letter dated July 8,

1959, cap-

tioned as above, with enclosed letterhead memorandum setting forth

detailed results of interview with subject immediately after his

arrival in the United States, having defected as chief of the Cuban

Revolutionary Air Force.

No steps are being taken by the Miami Office at this

time to develop DIAZ as a regular Informant of this office, since

the information presently at his disposal did not justify such

measures.

However, DIAZ has been contacted on several occasions

by the Miami Office on matters concerning which he may have past:

knowledge and during such contacts DIAZ has been most

co-operative.

sincere and

ipproved

lopies made:

(11) - Bureau (105-72630) (RM)

1

INS,

3

Miami

(RM)

- Miami (105-1598)

0123 74

CLASSIFI

DECLASS

BY SERICIA DECLASSIFIED BY 576128 SLOPESE

JFK) 0N 5-15-47

17. (JEK)

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

1051-72630-31

REC- 5

EX 109

4 SEP 25 1959

9 19/8

late, C1A, RAB, E 34 (infor

so 2N11, 05120157

TORY.

128

NICE - MYS

BECO

14K

'y of FBI - This report is looned to you by the FBl, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1958 0 844750

74 54460

DooId: 32297089

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1598

CIA representative, Miami, is in occasional contact with

DIAZ and believes him to be fully co-operative; however, his in-

activity at present does not make such contact

significantly

productived

(u)

One copy of this report is being disseminated to

Immigration and Naturalization Service locally due to the interest

of that office in subject.

This report 1s being classified confidential inasmuch

as it contains information, the disclosure of which might reveal

the identity of confidential informants of continuing value and

compromise future effectiveness thereof.

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-I is MM 635-S

MM T-2 1s MANUEL J.

DIAZ, PSI.

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

134-211 Sub A

134-368 Sub Al and 2.

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and I symbols were utilized only in

those instances where identities must be concealed.

-B,* -

COVER PAGE

518-18366

NH 54460

DooId: 32297089

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Repor* Porm

FD-263 (5-12-55)

SECA

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Offco of Origin

MIAMI

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

Date

9/23/59

Investigative Period

4/1-9/21/59

Report made by

WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO. OBJECTION TO

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR.

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, K- 7-29?

ADMINISTRATIVE

Reference is made to my letter dated July 8, 1959, cap-

tioned as above, with enclosed letterhead memorandum setting forth

detailed results of interview with subject immediately after his

arrival in the United States, having defected as chiet of the Cuban

Revolutionary Air Forced

No steps are being taken by the Miami office at this

the information presently at his disposal did not justicy such

by the Miami Office on matters concerning which he may have dest

knowledge and during such contacts DIAZ has been mostesincere and

co-operative.

Typed By:

ush

Approved

Copies made:

Special Agent

. In Chargé

Bureau (105-72630) (R)

INS, Miamt (RM)

Miami (105-1598)

et наки

SECKET

Property of FBI _ This report is looned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are. to be, distributed outside

* U. S. COVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICET.105B%

0344750

74 54460

DoöId:32297089

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-1598

CIA representative, Miami, is in occasional contact with

DIAZ and believes him to be fully cooperative; however, his in

activity at

present does not make such contact significantly

productive.

One

copy of this report is being disseminated to

Immigration and Naturalization Service

locally due to the interest

of that office in subject.

This report is being classified confidential inasmuch

as it contains information, the disclosure of which might reveal

the identity of confidential informants of continuing value and

compromise future effectiveness thereof.

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is MM 635-S

MM T-2 1s MANUEL J.

DIAZ, PSI.

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

134-211 Sub A

134-368 Sub Al and 2.

Careful consideration has been given to each source

concealed in this report and T symbols were utilized only in

those instances where identities must be concealed.

103P2

- B*

COVER PAGE

HH 54460

DooId: 32297089

Page 5

---

