# docid-32319265

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10399

RECORD SERIES :

• HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BAUGH

TO:

POTTS

TITLE:

DATE: 12/06/1993

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

v9.1

DooId: 32319265

Page

1

58

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

. DATE: 11-11-2017

• Memorandum

TO

From

Mr. Potts

Date

321

12/6/93

Dep. Dir.

ADD Acm._

ADD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adn.Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Info.Mgnt.

Insp.

Intelt.

Lab.

Legal Coun.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Cong. Affs. Off._

of EEO

Off. Liaison &

Int. Atts.

Off.

of Public Affs

Telephone Rm.

Director's Office

Subject

INFORMANT/CONFIDENTIALITY MATTERS

JOHN F: KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS

JFKARCA OF 1992

PURPOSE:

To discuss the manner in which FBI postponement policy

relating to informant/confidentiality matters is being applied

with respect to symbol: numbers of criminal informants and

counterintelligence/security assets or informants that appear in

captioned records.

RECOMMENDATION: None, for information.

APPROVED:

DrAster

Dog. ir. a

Adm. Serva

ст. tus. Int.

8aт4...

Oft. of LEO Alfs.

Intell.

OH. of Liaison

Laboratory

& Int. Alts..

ADD-Adm..

gal coun

Off. of Publie

MEANS

& Cong. Añs.

ADD-Inv.

Training

TOM Off.

DETAILS: The memorandum dated 6/17/93 and captioned as above

established policy with respect to informant/confidentiality

postponements taken in FBI documents being processed pursuant to

the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(the Act) •

A copy of this memorandum is attached.

one policy

established was that informant symbol numbers would be released

unless the combination of the release of highly singular

information and the release of the symbol number could contribute

to the identification of an informant.

The likelihood of

identification would occur most frequently where a particular

symbol informant provided positive information on more than one

occasion and by linking such reports of positive information

attributed to the same symbol informant one might be able to

identify the informant.

Enclosure (1) ENCICSURE

62А-HQ-1029205

GOA 49-1029805083

1 - Mr. Clarke

DALI

3 - Mr. Potts (1 - Attention: Mr.

(1 - Attention Mr. Tosti)

2 - Mr. Bryant (1 - Attention: Mr. Klein)

1

- IRD Front Office

1 - Mr. O'Connor

1 - Mr. Hartingh

1 - Mr. Harmon

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DocId: 32319265 Page 2

---

