# docid-32327437

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90064-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-20258-51

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

IP

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/22/1953

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

EUGENE FISHER LONDOS

VICTOR PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32327437

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

IP 87-2270

Letter to Director

Do Locket containing picture of victim HEMBROFF's deceased husband,

possibly bearing latent prints, of Unknown Subject; was. ARTHUR.

GRANT, et al.

Miami Airtel dated May 14, 1953 reflects Confidential Informant

MM 438.C C advised a Special Agent of the Miami Office that subject

"PEARSON" might be identical with conman (FNU) MASON who visited

Confidential Informant March, 1953, and drove a 1950-51 Mercury

with Arkansas License, and who resides in Pine Bluff, Arkansas.

Confederate of MASON,

vizo, JAMES MCDOUGAL, wa. Scotty, FBI

Number 477142; according to Confidential Informant, has fix

with county Attorney and Sheriff's Office, Springfiela, Illinois.

Confidential Informant states MCDOUGAL's description is

similar

to that of Unknown Subject; was. ARTHUR GRANT, et al. (Note

fact that Evidence Item B. was

signed by Unknown Subject; was.

JOHN PEARSON, et al, on

second "date" with victim OLTZ back in

Unknown Subject; was. JOHN PEARSON,

et al, was driving a 1950-51 dark blue Mercury.)

Miami Airtel

dated May 18, 1953 indicates Conman VICTOR PERIERA

may be identical with JOHN A. TABOR or MI. BUTLER and that

C. C. LUNDEGAARD, wa. Doc woods, may be identical with Unknown

Subjeot; was. JOHN PEARSON, et al.

In view of the above, the FBI Laboratory is requested to conduct

the following examinations:

1. Will; from Items C. and Do, attempt to develop latent

Will compare any

latents developed on these

items together with any possible developed on the 29

United States Savings Bonds previously submitted in

Indianapolis letter dated May 6, 1953 with EUGENE FISHER

LONDOS, FBI Number 4133415; JAMES MCDOUGAL, wa. Scotty. ' IMM

FBI Number 477142; C.C. LUNDEGAARD, wa. Doc woods; and

VICTOR PERIERA.

2. Will appropriately cause the handwriting specimens submitted

to be searched through the Fingerprint Cards of similar

name or description or alias and the National Fradulent

-2-

NW 54462 DooId: 32327437 Page 2

---

