# docid-32333786

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90107-10369

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/03/1966

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

COMMANDOS L.

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

N9.1

WH 54464

DocId: 32333786

Page 1

135

---

## Page 2

TELETYPE UNIT

JUN 3

1966

NR

5-0B PM EST

U

R

GE. N T 6-5-66

ENCODED MESSAGE

DIRECTOR (105-92196) AND SAN JUAN

SAN JUAN VIA WASHINGTON--•

CONFID

FROM MIAMI

(97-406) (P)

MF: Telson.

MF: Deboach

Mr:

Mehr--

Mr.

Mr:

Wiek--

Casper.

Mp Callahen

Mr.

Conrad

ME. Gale...

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter..

Tele, Room.

Mies Holme..

Miss Candy.

LASSIF

SECRET

915.83

211,328285

30 OF NOVEMBER REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

(NO VIMIENTO

REVOLUCIONARIO 30 DE NOVIEMBRES CARIN), IS - CUBA, RA - CUBA •

ORIGIN MIAMI.

REMYTEL MAY THIRTY ONE LAST ENTITLED COMANDOS L, IS =

CUBA, BUFILE 105-117222.

MM SIX THREE FIVE - $ (RELIABLE) ON JUNE TWO LAST

FURNISHED FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

tass

ANGEL LEIRO, MEMBER OF ACTION GROUP OF MRIN,

STATED

355/3102

UNITY AGREEMENT HAD BEEN REACHED BETWEEN

MRT N

COMMANDOS L L6, INC.

(C-L), REPRESENTACION CUBANO DEL EXILIO (RECE), AND

SEVERAL

OTHER CUBAN EXILE GROUPS • PURPOSE OF MAY TWENTYNINE

SIN IS UNGLAORIFIED

MISSION TO CUBA WAS TO CONTACI CERTAIN UNDERGROUND LEADERS ERE SHONA

1D2121

IN CUBA AND TO MAKE PLANS FOR UPRISING. THE ASSASSINATION

105-117222

OF FIDELOAASIRO RUZ, PRIME MINISTER OF CUBA, WAS NOT

'REAL PURPOSE

OF MISSION.

(v)

NOT RECORDED

189 JUN 14 1966

_EIRO

SAID THAT SANDALIO HERMINIO DIAZ GARCIA WAS IN

dange

STIL ALLNUUGH A C BOAT WAS USED AND ANTONIO

CUESIA DEL VALLE WAS ALONG, ME DID NOT KNOW PURPOSE OF MISSION

NOR THEIR EXACT DESTINATION UNTIL AFTER THERE WERE AT

SECRET

CLASS

12-16-80

ETr

SPA

- REASO

ENS BASEN *Y 3 1966

DATE

UIV

U

2/76

ORIGINAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32333786

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

IT IS NOT BELIEVED THAT THERE WAS A SECURITY

LEAN CENTRA

MISSION ARRIVED IN CUBA DURING TIME OF MILITARY ALERT AND

DIAZ'S TIMING WAS BAD DOW

R51

MM SIX THREE FIVE

- § POINIED OUT THAT MRIN MAD PUBLISHED.

LARGE AMOUNT OF PAMPHLETS ON "TECHNIQUE OF AN UPRISING,"

DEALING WITH SABOTAGE TECHNIQUES TO BE USED IN CUBA. IHESE

WERE ALSO TAKEN ON MISSION•

"GRANMA," DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHED IN MAVANA AND OFFICIALORGAN

OF CENTRAL COMMITTE OF COMMUNICSI PARTY OF CUBA, ON MAY THIRTYONE LAST

CARRIED PHOTOGRAPHS OF QUANTITY OF THESE BOOKLETS ENTITLED "TECHNIQUE

OF AN UPRISING, " WHICH WERE CAPTURED FROM MAY TWENTYNINE

SSION OF DIAZ.

MM SIX THREE FIVE -S SAID THAT RECE DID NOT GIVE MISSION

PUBLICITY, PLAYED. IT DOWN, AND IS TRYING TO PROTECT CUBAN

UNDERGROUND LEADERS BY GOING ALONG WITH CUESTA'S STORY THAT

PLAN WAS TO ASSASSINATE

EMM ONE ONE ONE FIVE DASH 3

# JUNE

TWO LAST ADVISED THAT

UNITY MEETING HALD IN MIAMI ON MAY IHIRTYONE LAST WAS FOR PURPOSE

OF EXPLOITINS DEATH OF DIAZ BARCIA ANE IO ESTABLISH MILITARY UNITIO

END PAGE TWO

SONH

HH 54464 DocId:32333786

Page 3

---

