# docid-32576086

## Page 1

FROM

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Belmon

Evans

DATE: July 31, 1964

Tolson +

Belmont

Mohr -

oach

Evans -

Gale.

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy _

3

SUBJECT:

LA

COSA NOSTRA

ANT IRACKETEERING

9=

Milwaukee top echelon informant 623-C-TE' has

furnished infor-

mation that a meeting of La Cosa Nostra members might be held August 2,

1964, at the farm of Sam (Teets) Battaglia,

located at Route 1, Pingree

Grove, Illinois.

Battaglia is an important lieutenant of Samuel Giancana,

underworld Leader of Chicago.

His farm is known as the Free Meadows Stock

Farm and is a very spacious layout situated approximately 55 miles north-

west of Chicago.

The farm is used for training horses and in addition to

spacious barns,

three residences, and a swimming pool, also has a track

for training race horses.

The informant has not been able to furnish the identity of all

of the individuals who supposedly will attend this meeting, but has

advised that Frank Balistrieri, Milwaukee hoodlum, is one of those who

will reportedly be present. Kansas City has advised that one of its

top hoodlums, Thomas Simone, will be in Chicago during the pertinent

period.

Chicago and other interested offices have been alerted to this

meeting and the Chicago Office has established coverage,

which will

tarmit of both photographic and physical surveillance of the Battaglia

This surveillance will be designed to identify any individuals

who appear at the Battaglia farm in the event a meeting is held.

open posing inferent difficulties in coverage;

however, every effort

is being made to, cover the setup adequately without disclosure of the

Bureau's

attendancer activities may become widespread and cover a considerable.

territory.

this happens Chicago will consider the advisability, in

connection with its efforts to cover this thing, of alerting feliable

local law enforcement officerse

ACTION:

EX 110

HE SH: 92-60545-715

Chicago has been instructed to follow through on appropriate

coverage of any meeting to be held and to keep the Bureau and interested

offices

fully ady ised

fold

1

-Mr.

Belmont

- Mr.

Evans

1

- Mr.

Mra McAndrews

Mr.

Leggett

sternes

AUG 11 196

JGL: din

(6)

D'AUG 1

SENT DIRECTOR

17064

1-31 6 4

ants

HH

45839

DooId: 32576086

Page 1

---

