# docid-32332813

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90104-10111

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-245

. Kerred:

Heeapezrabber Reocade

14รท120

2aer rebel.

Caeg=: 7 45256 Case:

--=--252-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/19/1961

'PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/05/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

NW 45836

32

Doold: 32332813

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-226

JEK Act 6 (4)

PG T-2 is

a potential criminal informant of

the Pittsburgh Office who was contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING

on 7/10/61.

PG T-3 IS PG 631-C who was contacted by SA JAMES O. PONDER

on 6/26/61.

PG I-4 is (SID JEANNETTE, Manager, Southern Bell Telephone

and Telegraph Company, Pompano Beach, Florida, who was con-

tacted on 7/24/61 by SA JAMES J. KEARNEY of the Miami

Office and

who has requested that his identity be concealed.

-

B*

COVER PAGE

Nief

46836

DocId: 32332813

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

FRANK/BAGNATO

2101 North 55th Terrace

Hollywood, Florida

Belease in part

per IRS

VINCENT/BOVE

1174 Garfield

Hollywood, Florida,

M (250%

,917

a white male, age 44, painter,

former operator of the Bove

Decorating Company at New Haven,

Connecticut for 20 years before

arrival in Hollywood.

C.

ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

PG I-I has advised that ROY VEY, the plant manager at the

North Star Cement Block Company, 12 McCandless Avenue,

Pittsburgh, Pa., is extremely worried that his mother

the Intelligence Unit of the Internal

Revenue Service (IRS) at Pittsburgh and will attempt to

help him by lying to Federal Investigators.

SA ROBERT MADDEN, Intelligence Unit, IRS, advised that

Law 11(a)

D. LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

North star Cement Block Company, Pittsburgh,

Pa. (SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, President)

By Tem atine ort statue ent Blo, tom any experienced

a failure and

that a hurried call to the Newark, New Jersey,

- 13 -

92-2940-245

46836

Docid: 32332813

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-226

manufacturer would probably bring a representative to

Pittsburgh to service the system which he

understands

originally cost $30,000.

The

afore-mentioned informant advised that the North Star

Cement Block Company has recently considered constructing

a bomb shelter at the LA ROCCA residence as a sales pro-

motion stunt and experiment.

He said that if it is well

received, the construction of bomb

shelters for Pittsburgh

residents will be advertised in Pittsburgh newspapers

so that business may ultimately be increased at North Star.

Possible Transaction Involving LA ROCCA--

GENOVESE Organization and Howard Johnson

Restaurant Chain

ARTHUR D. NELSON, aka, ARCHIE, who fronts the Phoenix and

Toll Gate Motels at Monroeville, Pa., for the LA ROCCA -

GENOVESE organization, has advised that he hopes to close a

deal with the Howard Johnson Restaurant Chain which will

build him a motor lodge at the location of his Toll Gate

Motel in Monroeville within the next year.

He advised that

this means a great deal to him inasmuch as a Howard Johnson

franchise is difficult to obtain and means clear sailing

financialy for many years.

SA ROBERT MADDEN,

Intelligence Unit, IRS, Pittsburgh, Pa

has advised that

JFK Law 11(a)

LOWERY BELL, Chief Architect for the Howard Johnson Restaurant

Chain whose offices are located in Miami, Florida, visited

Pittsburgh on August 3, 1961, and

advised SA ROBERT A. VOEGE

that a motor lodge at the Toll Gate Motel site in Monroeville

is definitely in the planning stage and that an investigation

Of ARTHUR D. NELSON, aka, ARCHIE,

is presently being con-

ducted. He stated

that investigators have found nothing

thus far to indicate that NEISON has any criminal associations

but that if this became known he believes the franchise

would definitely be withdrawn and that no further considera-

tion would be given to this project.

- 14 -

90-3940-2451

NW 45836 DooId: 32332013 Page 4

---

