# docid-32298910

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10224-10190

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

[Restricted]

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/09/1962

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32298910 Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"amade In

ullivan

Wasca

FOR

SEPT AN

November 9, 1962

TH140887(5)

OAOR

0194. 58MA2149

2/2194

ON:

CASSIFIED

GLASSIFY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan®

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

RE •

PEDRO LUIS DIAL LANE

An informant uno has furnished reliable information

past.

on the

morning of October 27, 1962, advised that

Maroos Dias Jana and Carlos Gorela, Cuban exiles who are

associated with the subject, diselosed that a group under

the subject's leadership planned to leave Miant, Floride»

on the evening of Detober 27, 1962, in two boats for

day Sol, & Britlsh Bahama Island located aboud forty miles

norch of Cube.

The boats were described as en 83-feot

vessel named "qusA" and a speedboat naned "nopple."

subject is the former inter of the Cuben Air Force under

Castro, who broke with Castro in 1959 and uno has been cotive

in anti-Castro endeavors. Mareos Dies Lana is his brother.

The above-mentioned group was to include Marcos

Diaz Lane. Carlos Carolo, Fernando Cabezas, and other

untdentified Cuban exiles, as well es Frank Anthony Sturgis,

a United States citizen who has been invalved in numerous

Cuban revoluttonary adventures. Sturgis is more commonly

knoun as Frank Fiorinio

The group planned to corry automatie

rifles and machine guns.

After arriving at Cay Sal, a small contingent from

the group reportedly would leave on the "Moppte" for o

destination and objective in cuba unknoun to the injorment.

REC-32 /05 2130=

and subsequantly aduleed on Desober 27s

1962, that the

foregoing plane were delayed because

• of the

failure of Caberas

to deliver money needed for electrical

repairs aboard the

"QUSA."

Maroos-Dias Indicated that the

proup rus still intend on outing throtion

soon as possible.

on 1uno effect as

105-72630

MAILED FROM DIVISION

1 = London

NOV13 1962

1 - Foreign Liaison taito is Ui liar

VHN: bplep

(8)

2019621

3 Од

(SES HOME PACE TO T

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32298910 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-Leased under the, John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11=14-2017

NOTE:

Memorandun sullivan to Belmont, 10-29-62, indicated

the Attorney General did not want any: "crackpot" individuals

of organizations going to cuba at this time. We have already

jurnished the foregoing information to the appropriate

U. so agencies and it is felt that stott could take action

against these individuals should they actually arrive in

British Territory. fs)

152 =

10572630583

DocId: 32298910

Page 3

---

