# docid-32560478

## Page 1

PH 92-444

T-1

I-2

I -3

I-4

T-5

T-6

T-7

OTHER 4

T-8

I-9

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION

Informants

Captain WILLIAM MC GOWAN,

Philacolphia Police Department,

Ito SA, JOHN. L.

•ADAMS, 10/8/58.

(name protected at his roquost.)

Results of trash cover residence

Of VICTOR CALANARO, 1736 Ritner

Street, obtained by SE ALBERT E.

CUICK, 9/26/58.

MiSS THERESA DOUGHERTY, Bell

Telophone Company, Philadelphia,

to SE E. DAVIS PORTER, 9/10/58.

Unidentified Confidential Source,

Bell Telephone Company, Becford,

Mass., on undisclosed date.

BS 616-C, to undisclosed Agent

on unmentioned date.

BS 758-0, to undisclosed Agont

in Novembor 1957.

JOHN VERICA, Sr., next door

neighbor to VICTOR CALAMATO,

tO SA JOSEPH A. VERICA,

on

9/18/58 (name protected duc

to

relationship).

PCIl

to

SA MAHLON J. PRICA,

9/18/58.

PH 418-C

• to SA J. ROBERT PEARCE,

9/15/58.

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION

. - 16 -

NW 45737 DocId: 32560478 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PE 92-444

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

T-10

T-11

T-12

to SA J. ROBERT

PEARCE, 9/15: 10/4/58.

Philadelphia Police Officer

LECHARD RUTIGLIANO,

to

SA J.

ROBERT TEANCE, 10/20/58.

(name protected at his request).

PH 514-0, to SA J. ROBERT

PEACE, 9/15/58.

OTHER 4

1.

PH 251-C

PH 269-C

PH 467-0

Criminal Informant Coverage

Informant for many years closely associated

and acquainted with most of the Philadolphia

Top Hoodlums.

furnished reliable infor-

mation over ten year period on a monthly

basis..

Presont valuo limited due to infor-

mant's poor health. Has identified BRUNO'S

associates and illogal

activities.

Informant closely associated with subject.

Journeyed

to Miami, Fla., with BRUNC and

scheduled to act as DRUNC's advisor in con-

tomplated trash collection contract, Dade

County, Fla

Has furnished information on

location BRUNC's numbers banks, BRUNC's

racket employees and associatos, as woll as

criminal activity. Furnishes information

on a weekly basis.

A numbers writer and pickup man in South

Philadelphia.

Knows BRUNe and other Top

Hoodlums. Frequents some of their known

Has furnished information n

BRUNO's method of operation in numbers and

gambling, and recent criminal activities.

Contacted on a monthly basis.

ADMINISIRATIVE SECTION (CONT .)

- 17 -

NW 45737 DocId: 32560478 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2II 92-444

PH 514-C

PH 517-C

PH 518-0

PH 439-C

PH 30-0

PH 515-0

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONT.)

A tipstaff Philadelphie County Courts,

member of a well-known family connected

with illicit alcohol.

Informant's brother,

CHATLES, currontly partner of Philadolphia

Top Hoodlum FELIX DE TULLIO in still

operation. Informant believes BAUNO

responsiblo for murder of another brother,

MARSHALL, and is willing to furnish infor-

Identified BRUNC's associates and

criminal activities and movements on a

daily basis.

numbers writer formerly associated with

DOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia Top Hoodlum,

in illicit alcohol. Close friend of numbers

runner employed by pHILIP TEStA, BRuNo's

Lieutenant.

Furnishes information on a

weekly basis regarding BRUNO's movements,

associates, and activities.

Local prostitute with extensive arrest

record. Arrested with Philadelphia Top

Hood lum PETER CASELLA December 1957.

Deceased husband was actively engaged in

numbors activity.

Knows identity of

individuals in numbers racket connected with

BRUNO.

Has furnished extensive information

persons involved in narcotics traffickingand

those engaging in illicit alochol. Contact

almost on a daily basis.

Numbers writer and bootlegger with many local

connections.

Has furnished information on

subject's activities and associates. Contacted

on a weekly basis.

Can furnish daily information regarding

movements, associates, and activities of

Philadelphia Top Hoodlums WEISBERG ane HOFFMAN.

ADMINISTRATIVE SECTION (CONI.)

- 18 -

NW 45737 DocId: 32560478 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ADMINISIRATIVE SECTION (COUT.)

PH 92-444

PH 30-C

2H 515-0

(Cont.)

PCI

Believed currently interestod in operation

of horso books for

subject's South Phila-

dolphia arca

OTHER 4

PCI|

Engaged in racket activity

in ihilace lphia.

Connocted wi.th

Philadelphia Top Hoodlums WILLIE

WETSBERG and CAPPY HORFMAN.

Acquainted with most of racket

element in Philadelphia.

old-time bootlegger and gambler

Acguainted with most of the

Philadelphia Top Hondlums. Knows

subject.

PCI

PCI|

PCI

Formorly inactive informant,

reopened since he porsonally knows

subject and has previously furnished

information on him.

Formerly employed as waitress by

DOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia.

Personally acquainted with FELIX

DE TULLIO, Philadelphia.

Brother

Of ANTHONY PETIONE, local boot-

legger. Has known

BrUNo and

BRUNO's family all her life.

• friend JOHN FUSCO local

numbers banker.

Through this

association well acquainted with

local racket element

Personally

acquainted with SANTONE brothers,

one of whom (JAMES) arrested with

PETER CASELLA, Philadelphia; lives

close to and knows BRUNO.

BECAUSE BRUNO IS ALLEGED IC HAVE COMMITTED GANGLAND

EXECUTIONS IN THE PAST, HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

- 19 -

ADMINISTR TIVE SECTION (CONT.)

NW 45737 DocId: 32560478 Page 4

---

