# docid-32307617

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assasstnation Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

6/17/201

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10320

HQ

64-29479-2ND NR 10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

LEG, OT

TITLE :

DATE: 10/06/1966

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LTR

8

Docid: 32307617

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassihation Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-3017

Logat, Octava (105-2287)

• It:. Tselida

10- C66

SECRET

Director,

b: 29407921

CANADIAN CONJITION SUPPORIING

SALLODEL BRAINAZION ZOR 2200

PROPIAS OF LATIN AMARICA

iS - C

11-15-97

CLASCIFIEO BY

5668 SUD/ISR

DECLASCIFY ON: 25X/,6

(JFK)

ALL'INFORNATION CONTAINED

HOREIN IS UNCIASSIFIED EXCEPS

WISRE SHOWN OTHERWISE-

Zaclosed

are cogies of z0103

Regarding:

1)

26. 2, daun'

Reference Logat, Ottawa, lotter, 9-19-55.

* recipionle excapt legat,

gich attached lotter Kron

RouD (s)

2-1645

assfried

Declassify on: DADE 5.FK

1547.25

Thia individual

is probakly idoatical with Michael

Paul

Lans, Buzile 100445505, San Francisco 21le 100:553764

5ea franzero

prepaze briel descriptive intorantion segarding

• Kon ên fox

suitable for

dissemanation.

this subject

• has beon

in contect with tholAd Joe

this contact should not

be roferred to in your al.

S

It is noted that

Cho- ROMe

200:03

to ba rocipionts of lettors

Lottox

indicated sons of the

Iron captionod commattee were

siven

in members of the Progresaive Wozkons Movement by Calness

officials wien the WM group

visited Chann in carly 1006.

not indicato if Lom

2ON2

one of those natos.

Legat,

attempt to detemine 11 Louis nano was in that liat claco io

would be very signations in our amrostlantion of Lann

ORIGINAL FILED

Declosures

(2)

Senttle

(Enc 2)

1. = Toredan Liaison Unit. Coute througt

I ei

Buffalo

Chicago

(Unc, 2)

100-445S96 oucheel Paul Lens)

i tries gial for fro

-. Now Vost: (Duc. 2)

300-39020S

(Ed Menc113)

Sad Francises

(Enc. 2)

*. 300m284715 (Jose Autonio

MayobRO)

San Juan (Doc. 2)

KiTt

300381339 Pablo 09

SECEDS

DuStOs

Aires

(Gno, 3)

64-29479

ores

Progaze)

+ Legat,

Negats

Mexico City

(ine. 2)

206: 43313 00

(Jonzo 290z1 0a)

Rão de Janeiro (Enc. 2)

Sanso

Domingo (Ons. 22

SAE J02X PACE: 371336

1J12: m

700CT 2620%

COPLICATE CELLOW

SECRET

DocId:32307617 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releasedunder the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Letter to Lega

Ottawa

RS:

CANADIAN CÓMITIRE

SUPPORTING SELF-DOTERMINATION

FOR THE PEOPLES ON LATIN AMERICA

SECRET

(2) Ed Merrill

Merrill is the subject of Bufile 100-390295,

Builalo file 100-11222.

Enclosed for Ottawa are two

copies of

report of sa Jack ". Sunderland dated 5-16.66 at Buffalo,

New dork. Ottawa nay furnish a copy to Rep.VS

Bureau is also interested in determining if Merrill'S

nane was

one of those furnished to Mill by the Chinese communists.

(3) Jose Antonio Mayobre

Mayobre is the subjeci of Buttle 100-334715. Bureau

will prepare an lil regarding mayoore

and

furnish copies to

Octama for dissemination to ROHr.(S)

(4) Carlos Revas

Butiles contain no identifiable information zegarding

Revas.

Legat, Mexico, identify hin and report information in

form suitable

for dissemination.

(5) Mr. and Mrs. Pablo O'Higgins

Pablo O'Higgins is the subject of Bufile 100-381839,

Legat,

Mexico,

file 100-750. Legat, Mexico, prepare brief

descriptive inforuation regarding Mr. and Wrs. O'Miggins in

forn suitable for dissemination.

(6) Teresa Proenza.

Proenza is subject of Bufile 64-29479. Legat, Mexico,

prepare brios descriptive data regarding her in for suitabs

for dissemination.

(7) Dr. Alonzo Aguilar

Aguilar is probably identicai with subject of

Bufile 105-43313. Legal, Mexico, prepare bries descriptave

dute regarding him in for cuitable for dissemination.

San duan and Legat, Rio de venezro, Buenos Aires,

Mexico and Santo Domingo be

alert for information concernang

captioned committee and any indicatione of contact with pro

Chinose communist grougs in their

respective areas.

1N001710159

note stipulation in

paragraph two

o1 Rout lecter

ein.

2 m

SECRET

DocId: 32307617 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Rennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Wetter to Legat, Octawe

RE:

CANADIAN COLMITTLE

SUPORTING SELF-DETERMINATION

TOB THE PEOPLES OF LATIN AMORICA

SECRET

NOTE:

Logat furnished information tron none that

captioned committee is a pro- Caicon tront in vancouver,

Canada,

ROMP furnished names of the above individuals

available by a source from a mailing list of che

committee. (5)

3

SECRET

DocId: 32307617 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BURBAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

I Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

( ]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

I Subsection IC (other matter relating to militar)

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[ ]

Subsection? (living person who provided

confidential information)

[] subsection 3 (unwarranted invasion of privacy)

In subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

[ ]

Subsection 5, security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

[]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

Assassination investigation.

[ ]

For your information:_

Mr the following number is to be used

regarding this page (these pages) :

for reference

64-29479-NR after secial 10 dated 9-19-66

xXxxxxXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxX::

xXX0xxxXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxXXX

DocId: 32307617

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of I9S2 (1T Use 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OrT-d IRON: 12-22-651

Date:

9-19-66

To:

Direcior, FBI

(Butile:

Attention

*...

in, Fron:

egai Attache, Ottawa

1 104 - 2097

)

Title

Character

IS - CH

CANADIAN COMMITTES SOPPORTING

SELT-DETERMINATION FOR TEE

2202226 02 LATEN AMERICA

Reference

Inclipage 2

NO preOr cortespOndence.

Enclosed are the following communications Faceived from the RCvP:

one copy of ROMp letter dated 9-13-66.

original ancie

Remarks:

Note request in paragraph three of the enclosure and advise.

ALE TASORLAFION CODZAINED

HEREIN 13 UNOLASSIVIBD SXCEPT

BEDSE SHOWN OTARENISE.

classified by So Mee

Declassity on: CABRSFR

/ ENCLOSURE

Dissemination

May be mode as received

64-29479

Micy be made as inciocted by stamp on enclosure

May not be made without further clearance with RCMP

NOT RECORDER

- ti

Foilowing offices woud be interesied in receiving

copies of enclosures:

• Francisco; Buffalo; New York;

Legal,

Mexico

Status with this office:

105

Do not write in opece below

157775-1

RUC

Pending

Sureau

(1 00

aboved(Enc. 2)

EX-10€

indicated

HENCE

(5)

SECRET

DocId 32307617 Page 6

105.15

ORIGINAL FILED IN

MOT-S

REC- 62

151

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INPORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

_Page (s)

withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One

Or

more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

IT Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale

indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure. All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

•[]

subsection lA (intelligence agent's identity)

[] Subsection 1B (intelligence source or iethod)

If Subsection IC (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

subsection?

living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

subsection

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

(]

subsection 5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized;

[ ]

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the Jfi

Assassination

investigation.

[]

For your information:.

It the

following

number is to be used

regarding

this

for reference

page (these pages).

64-29479-M1 after serial 10

dated 9-13-66

XXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxXXX::

xXXxxxxxXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxXXXX

DocId: 32307617

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Reteased under the John F. Kenedy Assassination Records Coltection Aet or 1992 149 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

ALLIOPRESIONDENCE TO

EE AbORESSED:

THE COMMISSIONER

OYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTANA 7, CANADA

TOUTE CORRESPONDANCE DOIT

ETRE ADRESSÉE COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWAY, CANADA

HEADQUARTERS - DIRECTION GÉNÉRALE

OUR NO.

OTRE NO

UR NO.

STRE N°

D 944-333-J-2

SECRET

OTTAWA 7, CANADA

September 15, 1966.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIR 1S UNGLASSIMCI

Doar Sir:

DATE 2:1675 BY

JFK)

A source of unknown reliability stated that

The Canadian Committee Supporting Self Determination for

tho Peoples of Latin Anerica le pro-Chinese communist

front) Vancouver, B.C., sent out letters, each containing

a pamphlet which outlined the aims and the objectives of

the organization, to the following individuals.

According

to the source, some of the names for the letters were

"Iven to members of the Processive Worker's Movomoni

P.W.M.) (pro-Chinese communist, or Chinese officials

when

the former visited China in April and May, 1966.

The

source seported

that

Jorry LOBOURDAIS (a former lesding

member of the

P.W.M.) stated that the Chinese officials

indicated that these persons naned were pro-Chinese In

their political viaws and

could be used as contacts.

U. SoA. and MEXICO

Mr. MoP. LAMA

(previously referred to

In our correspondence

dated March 16, 1956 con

corning U.s, subscribers

to the

"Progressivo

• Worker")

605 Putnam Hall,

2650 Durant Avers

Berkley,

California, 94704.

U.S.A.

Mr. Jose Antonio MAYOBRE,

Executive Director of ECLA,

United Nations Buildings.

New York, M.Y., U.S.A.

Carlos REVAS,

Sociedad Sinaloense de

Anistad con China Popular

Boulevard Madaro,

#540 pta,

Culiacan Sinaloas

Mexico.

Mr, Ed MERRILLS

202 Niagara

Stes

Buffalo, N.X., U.S.A.

Mr.

Ec Mrs. Pablo O'HIGGINS:

348943, Xochicaltitia #52,

TVE FOREGOING IS FOR THE INFORMATION OF

Coyoacan,

MONE

ACENCY

..G6,oAn2

ANO, DISSEMINATION

TO

Mexico D.F.

...ONLY.

SOOITIONAL DISSEMINATION MUST NOT TAKE

FLACE WITHOUT THE AUTHORITY OF R.C.M.F.

HEADQUARTERS. OTTASIA.

THE R.C.M. POLiCF

MUST NOT BE NAMED AS THE SOGACE

Mr. Nose Ice Innes,

ENCLOSUNE

64-29479

c/o U.S. Embassy,

300 Wellington St.,

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Ferredy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 944-333-5-2

2

SECRET

Teresa PROENZAS

Alabama 56-5

Mexico 18, D.F.

Dr. Alonzo Aguilor,

Profeasor, School of Economies,

National. University of Mexico,

Mexico.

2.

The foregoing Information may be passed to your

friendly links, however, as this source 1s in a rather deli

cate position,

1t is requested no action be taken which might

jeopardize our source.

The R.C.M.P. must not be named as the

source.

3.

Should tho Bureau be able to identify any of the

persons mentioned above, we would appreciate being advised.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS FOR THE INFORMATION OF

YOUR

AGENCY

AND

DISSEMINATION

TO

See para 2.

....ONLY.

ADDITIONAL DISSEMINATION

MUST NOT TAKE

PLACE WITHGUT THE AUTHORITY OF R.C.M.P.

HEADQUARTERS, OTTAWA.

THE R.C.M. POLICE

PAST NOT BE NAMED SO THE SOMBRE

(W.I. Kelly)

Assistant CommissiOner

Director

Security and Intelligence.

DocId:32307617. Page 9

---

