# docid-32335539

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Released under the John

i. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased:N 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO : HQ

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/31/1966

3

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId: 32335539

Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

52-36 (Rey 523

Transmit the following in

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr.--

Mr. Wick

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt_-

8/31/66

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosem

(Type in plaintext or codelA HAS NO OBJECTIONITO

Mr. Sulliv

Mr. Tavel

REGISTERED MAIL

DECLARSISCATIC AND/OR, M2.

Trotterl

MATION: Room

(Priority)

IN THIS DOGRAM KP

558312.444

Diss Gard

3011175974

a

3S11

19/416

tots052

99/4/6

AIRTEL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (134-15266)

ARE!

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (134-1292) $)

CLASSISED BY

8/2796 3/26/15 ndc

05X 01(6)=,

OFTE

RE:

IS - CUBA

Word okie

Re Miami airtel to Bureau 8/22/66 and Bureau

airtel to Miami 8/26/66.

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and

•e lurile

9 copies of a letterhead memorandum setting forth specific

HSCA 2'0/2-161

data. which we

by informant;

to

instructions previously issued by the Bureau under

-(S)

for review at FBIHQ by

Michel.

5 - 18

ISCL

copies made

double agent program,

. the LiM has hotnbeen captioned.

SU

-д.-

this double agent operation. 5)

Enclosed LHM has been classified secret to protect

regarding informant's recent trip to the]LS

Dominican Republic (DR), complete detailsof this trip (sl

have been submitted by

Miami letter to Bureau 8/23/66.

In order to clarity certain information in this communication

regarding informant's connections with MITCHELL WER BELLS

and Dr. LAWRENCE MITCHELL,

the following is set forth:

planned to travel to the DR in connection with efforts of

various anti-castro groups to organize a military base in

DR. He specifically indicated that 3, anti-Castro organizations,

the I3th of November, RICE and Comardos-I, were attempting

establish a base in the DR and to form a military alliane

4-150665

New York (134-12842)

1 - Miami

(RM)REC.

• 96

JCB: me

centrin 4957310

(5)

GO s Wick

H7. SEP 9 19665

WH..

Approved:

Sent

"Per

Special Agent in Charge

62 SEP 1 6 1966.

NW 54462 DooId: 32335539

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM [34-1292}

there of these 3 organizations for action against FIDeL

CASTRO. LUIS POSADA, who is (personally acquainted withs.

the informantl angkin'

whom CIA has an operational interest, jU

was approached to accept the position as military head of

this alliance. POSADA formerly held a commission in the

U. S. Army and allegedly was in a Ranger Battalion. Accord-

ing to informant, POSADA was selected to head this group

because of this. MPOSADA indicated an interest lin having

informant assist him in the DR inasmuch as informant had

spent considerabletime aboard the "Venus", a boat which

operated by another anti-Castro group, JURE, and was familiar

Subsequent to above conversation, on 7/25/66

informant advised that he was personally acquainted &

wIth MITCHELL L. WER BEL, III, aka ALEX WILSON

and had

spent considerable time with WER BEL in the DROWER BEL

resides at 140 Santander St. Apt, Coral Gables, Fla...

and holds the Latin American franchise for the newly

developed Hand Weapon known as Gyro Jet Rocket, manufactur-

ed by MBA Associates, San Ramon, Calif. WER BEL is employed

by Point-O-Sale, Inc., Powder Spring, Ga.

Copies of the brochure describing this weapon

were made available to the Miami Office by informant.

According to informant, WER BEL planned to travel

to the DR in an attempt to interest the Dominican military

in purchasing this firearm.

Also traveling with WER BEL

would be Dr. LAWRENCE MITCHELL, a veterinarian from Atlanta,

Ga., who would attempt to sell

some chemical chicken feed

the Döminican government.

In connection with this trip,

informant to trayel with him to the DRIto act as his ES

interpreter and (to introduce him to)key military officersC

whom he might interest in his weapon.

WER BEL was aware

of informant's friendship with Commodore RAMON EMILIO-JIMENEZ. N

2.

NW 54462 DooId: 32335539

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM [34-1292 ($

Informant traveled te the DRivia chA thighton 286 is Cs

airplane ticket and presumablylhis expenses, were furnishedLS.

traveled alone inasmuch as (S

WER BEL and Dr. LAWRENCE MITCHELL had not yet been able

obtain visas for this trip. Informant was subsequently

joined by dr. MITCHELL in

the DR but. WER BEL never made

the trip, since he was unable to obtain a visa.

Informant advised the only anti-Castro activity ($

in which he engaged during

this trip was an inventory of C

various arms formerly owned by JURE, when JURE had a basénes

in the DR. According to informant, responsibility for theselS

arms had rested with JOSE RABEL, Former captain of the JURF

boat,

"Venus" until RABEL was captured in an attempt to

infiltrate into Cuba. Thereafter, informant was technically

responsible for this cache of firearms. His purpose of [

conducting this inventory was to assure(himself the arms

were still being held intact by the Dominican military.

Informant explained that-dr. LAWRENCE MITCHELL had previously

Toaned JOSE RABEL $11,000 for repairs to the "Venus" and

for purchase of arms and gasoline.

this money when he was captured in Cuba and since informantL

felt tha jit was highly doubtful that the Dominican militar

would release these arms to him, he felt this was his

opportunity to repay Dr. MITCHELL and also to relieve himself (s

(of responsibility of control of these arms. [Accordingly ES]

informant introduced Dr =

MITCHELL to Comodore JIMINEZ and

told the Compdore(he was relinquishing control of thesed-

arms to Dr. MITCHELL in order to satisfy this obligation on

the part of RABEL. (Informant did not indicate he was awarels

of any agreement reached by Dr. MITCHELL and Confodore

JIMINEZ as to the disposition of the arms other than that

Dr. MITCHELL indicated to the Comfodore he was not interest-

ed in physical possession of the

arms but only wanted to

sell them to recover his money

Informant emphasized that his trip to the DRLS

did not concern the previously mentiored anti-Castro

organizational activity and(that he made no contacts

this regard. The only persons cogulzant of his tripC RC

were WER BEL and Dr. MITCHELL and the trip was strictly for

business purposes

3.

NW 54462 DooId: 32335539 Page 4

---

