# docid-32299649

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10429

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER.: 92-2717-1036

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/16/1963

1

ABR, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/10/1998

-OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

y9.1

DocId: 32299649

Page 1

286

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rêv. 4-17-63)

41465

AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

07 CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XXXTELETYPE

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans 1

Gale -

Rosen _

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

URGENT

9-16-63

8-16 PM EDST

ERA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC PHILADELPHIA

162355

ANGELO BRUNO, ARAL

BRUNO IN PHILA OVER WEEKEND SEPTEMBER 14/15. SPENT MOST

OF AFTERNOON, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, AT FRANK DAMIANO'S STORE

WITH NUMEROUS ASSOCIATES. AT SAME PLACE AFTERNOON MONDAY

SEPTEMBER 16, MET BRIEFLY, PRIVATELY WITH STEVE MELCHIORRE,

FORMER DETECTIVE, PHILA PD, PRESENT PHILA COUNTY DETECTIVE.

BRUNO SENT HIS OFFICE MAN TO BRANCH, FIRST PENNSYLVANIA

BANKING AND TRUST, SEVENTH AND PORTER, TO CHANGE $3,000 IN

$50 BILLS TO $100 BILLS.

BRUNO INQUIRED WHETHER SKINNY (PAUL) D'AMATO BACK FROM

•LAKE TAHOE. BRUNO MUST SEE HIM. D'AMATO OPERATES FIVE HUNDRED

CLUB, ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY, IS ASSOCIATED WITH FRANK

SINATRA IN CAL-NEVA LODGE, LAKE TAHOE, HAS BEEN CHARGED WITH

ATTEMPT TO BRIBE AGENTS, NEVADA GAMING COMMISSION.

WHEN TOLD BY, PH 614-C-TE THAT BEN GOLOB COMPLAINED RE

INABILITY TO SEE BRUNO, AND GOLOB LEFT FOR DOMINICAN REPUBLIC,

BRUNO TOLD SOURCE HE WOULD SEE GOLOB WHEN HE GOES "DOWN THERE."

MRS. BURNO TOLD SOURCE SHE MIGHT NOT BE IN PHILA WEEKEND

OF SEPTEMBER 21.

RECEIVED:

8:27 PM

EX-112

FN

q.e97

9212117-1036

SEP & 01963

REG

a SEP 18 1963

If the intelligence contained in the above

message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32299649 Page 2

---

