# docid-32114533

## Page 1

Releared under the John F, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 10t 05 1992 411 156 2107 Hates -

DATE: 11-14 2917

IENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10003-10407

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 105-3702-178

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FERRIS. NATHAN L.

LEG. MX

DATE: 01/10/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, SIGHTING, MX

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/26/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/03/2000

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32114533

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John f

Notes

DATE:

10-2017

420848

Kennetly

Assaspination.Records./CoIlectzon.act.ot 1992,014 USC

21073

CONTAC

MAAL

LECAT, MEXICO CITY (100-939)

SA NATHAN L. FERRIS

ELIZABETH MORA

1/10/643

1 Leis

Classiee

Destasery On OAD

on 1/6/64 vEx-18 and vex-19 orally advised the

writer that during

time ELIZABETH MORA was 111 she had

declined to diseuss the OSWALD case."Cincormants aid not.

furnish her wich any newspaper clippings concerning the

OSWALD case, as she had requested, but aid call her attention

to some newspaper articles, particularly. the "Scott-Allen

report published in the Mexico City "News,

which Indicated

that OSWAlD had reportedly traveled to Mexico in the company

of two other individuals.

MORA, however, declined to teke

the lead

and to discuss the newspaper

reports or anything

connected with the OSWALD case:

The Informants rurther davised that auring this

period of 111ness, MORA rerused to discuss any political

matters and her entire atcention was absorbed by her iliness

and her household chores.

Her refusal to discuss matters

was,

therefore, not limited merely to the OSWALD case. C. l

Informants further advised that CHARLES SMALL 1S

still worrled, believing that he must have known OSWALD at

some time and that OSWALD must have visited SMAL's store

while in Mexico Ci

AT.PRED LAWRENCE,

who has recently recurned ona

visit to Mexico,

accoraing to the intormants, has created

even more fright anong sone of the ACM assoclates by

taking the position that, of course, the assassination of

President KENNEDY was a plot, implying the involvement of

the Cubans. (Cans

CLASSIFIEDI BY-

IS SCO GUL

DECLASSIFY. ON.

ON 218 CE

3/

1

105-3702

100-1554

00-1414

-0134-104

OSWALD:)

SMALL)

105 3 202 118

ESEARGHED:

INDEXED

CGANIS-1964/

ALS

INFORMAI (CI) CONTA

ALLEGAL ATTACHE

MEXICe

188. 8

HERETI

IS UNCLASSIFLED

EXIL

HEK/AHR 6-28-19

EXCERT

REASON-FCIM, II,

SHOWN A

STFERWISEO

DATE OF REVIEW

Dodid;32114533

é

ICONSDENTIALA

---

