# docid-32291491

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10267

HQ

166-4355-98

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

REPPUCCI, CHARLES A

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/25/1970

'PAGES: 19

SUBJECTS:

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, VENDITUOLI, FRANK

ANTHONY, FUG, LCN, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, NEG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32291491

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL' BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

Boston

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

Boston

L.

LUIGI GIOVANNI

MANOCCHIO, aka -

FUGITIVE, IO #4336:

FRANK ANTHONY VENDITUOLI, aka t

FUGITIVE, IO #4346

DATE

9/25/70

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOO

619-3/16/70

REPORT MADE BY

CHARLES A. REPPUCCI

CHARACTER OF CASE

8-11.49

ITAR - GAMBLING

10€70

REFERENCE:

report of SA CHARLES A. REPPUCCI, 6/29/70, Boston?'

New Haven airtel to Boston, 7/6/70 (I0).

Bsairtel to New York, 7/7/70 (0).

Newark letter to Boston, 7/29/70

(IO).

Philadeiphia airtel to Boston, 8/3/70 (IO).

Albany letter to Boston, 8/14/70 (IO).

Savannah letter to Boston, 8/25/70 (IO):

New Haven letter to Boston, 8/31/7U (IO).

New York letter to Bostor, 8/31/70 (I0).

_p-

TYPED EY

1c

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

None

SAVINGS

RECOVEFIES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

@PPROVED

COPIES NADE:

3 - Bureau

(166-4355)

Newark

- New Haven

(166-442)

2

- New York

2

(166-2516)

-Boston (166-845)

166-

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR BEIVES DiVO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

HIVES LINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

4355-

98.

REC 45

EX-100

18 SEP 29 1970

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Dale Fod.

HOW FWi.

Organizing

CO. 146. Ordiral Diviston,

Room

Crim & A sewerine Sectios

NOT RAIN 2 200

DocId: 32291491

Page 2'

Norations

PUSSIE

STAT SECT.

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

On June 9, 1970, BS 801-CTE advised SAS WILLIAM J.

WELRY and JOHN F. KEHOE, Jr. that he had heard that LOUIS

MANOCCHIO is going to Northern Italy and has been trying to

have a phoney passport prepared. Informant had no further

information to report.

on June 10, 1970, BS 1159-CIE advised SA DENNIS M.

CONDON that LoUIs MANOCCHIO is in the Brooklyn, N. Y. area,

and he is talking about getting out of the area as the FBI

has been showing his picture.

SA CONDON advised that the security of this informant

would be jeopardized if MANOCCHIO should learn that the FBI is

aware of his concern of the FBI having pinned him down to an

area. Accordingly, New York is not going to be requested, again,

to conduct investigation other than that previously requested.

Informant advised FRANK VENDITUOLI is in Canada, but

informant does not know his actual location there.

On June 15, 1970, BS 942-CTE advised that a gambling

junket leit for puerto Rico around June 8, 1970, and on this

junket were several known hoodlums from the Rhode Island area.

During the plane trip to Puerto Rico, there was

conversation concerning

the whereabouts of "BABY SHANKS" MANOCCHIO

and someone said he was in Switzerland; furthermore, prior to

being a fugitive he had visited there on a couple of

occasions,

and indicated he liked it there very much.

On July 10 and 17, 1970, BS 1159-CTE advised

SA DENNIS M. CONDON that MANOCCHIO is in the Brooklyn, N. Y.

area and is hoping to leave the United States. FRANK VENDITUOLI

is still in Canada.

SA DENNIS M. CONDON advised that since the New York

Office is aware of the above information, additional leads

should not be restated for the protection of the informants:

On August 17, 1970, RICHARD ISRAEL, Assistant Attorney

General State of Rhode

Island, advised he received an anonymous

telephone call that "BABY SHANKS" has been visiting spots on

Federal Hill.

He was last seen on Saturday or Sunday in the

S&S Bar,. Atwells Ave., Providence, R. I., and he supposedly has

long shoulder length hair and wears dark glasses.

C

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291491 Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

On August 17-19, 1970, BS 942-CTE advised he is a

close friend and associate of "BABY SHANKS", and further,

informant goes in and out of the SeS Bar.

He said there

is

no basis to the story that subject MANOCCHIO was at the

S&S Bar or that he has been in the Federal Hill area.

Informant said there is no talk on the "Hill"

re subjects VENDITUOLI Or MANOCCHIO.

From June 11 to September 16, 1970, SA WILLIAM J.

WELBY was in weekly contact with BS 801-CTE,

and BS 942-CTE

who advised they are acquainted with the subjects and they

stated they have no information or knowledge of subjects'

present whereabouts.

Former BS 829-CTE and BS 670-CTE who are acquainted

with subjects were contacted on a regulan basis and advised no

information has been developed re their present whereabouts.

On July ô, 1970, the New

Haven Division furnished the

following information:

VENDITUOLI, who is known

Con July 6, 1970, NH 603-C-TE advised that subject

by the informant to use the name

a carnival, done warked in the past with RockY Dell, owner oi

business as the Great American Shows.

According

to the informant, Deul operates a 1970 brown Oldsmobile 98, brown

vinyl top, bearing New York license 1243NA.

Informant advised

that DELL

stayed for the past two months at the west Haven Motor

Inn, West Haven, Conn., which is operated by known hoodlums, anc

that DELL left Connecticut on the July 4, 1970, weekend for

Hurleyville, N. H.

NH 603-C-TE advised that he saw DELL in the

above car in the Bridgepont, Conn. area on the weekend of

July 4, 1970, and according to the informant DELL was not

acconpanied ly subject veNDitueli at this time.

Previous investigation by the Boston and New Haven

Offices developed infornation that subject VENDITUOLI had called

his wife on April 24, 1970, at which time it was determined that

the call had been made from a pay phone which number was

traced

to a coin telephone at the Western Electric Co.,. Orange,

Connecticut.

Investigation by the New Haven Office determined

that the call could not have been made by the subject from

this phone, and that the subject presumably gave the number of this

coin telephone

in order to conceal his exact location when making

the call. It is to be

noted that the West Haven Motor Inn is

- D -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291491 Page 4

---

## Page 5

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej:

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-845

located at 370 Highland Street, West Haven, Conn., and is

only a mile or two from the western Electric Company, Orange,

which number was used by the subject as stated above.

on July 1, 1970, the New York Office was furnished

the information contained

contained inhe Ne

in New Haven airtel of July 6, 1970:

mentioned above.

The New York Office advised New York license

1243-NA is issued to JOAN C. DELLICICCHI, 48, Preston, Syosset,

Long Island.

On August ??, 1970, BS 801-CTE furnished the following

information to SA WILLIAM J. WELBY:

MONACCHIO

In regards to LOUIS MONACCHIO, informant said that

Is up in brooklyn, New York, exact whereabouts

unknown. Informant said that NICK BIANCO has him stashed

away.

Informant explained that LOUIS MONACCHIO was close to

NICK BIANCO when both were in Providence, R. I. Also;

informant said that MONACCHIO has a high-class

girl friend

somewhere in New York; identity not known to him, whom he

has associated with for a number of years.

He pointed out

that MONACCHIO is also high-class and is not one to

attract attention to himself as he acts refined in public.

Informant said that NICK BIANCO with LOUIS SCHATZ (PH) has

a real estate office in Brooklyn, New York.

Informant said that MONACCHIO has talked to BUTCHIE

MICELI by telephone a number of times and it was not until

he

went on the "lam" that he went to MICELI's house in. New Jersey

and met him. Informant said that MICELI also would know where

MONACCHIO could be located but knows that he would never

cooperate with law enforcement. in any matter.

It is noted that informants who know subjects are contacted

on a regular basis concerning these subjects and to date they do

not have any definite location for subjects.

The information reported is that VENDITUOLI may be in

Canada, no place mentioned, and MANOCCHIO in Brooklyn, N. *. with

no definite location.

The New York Office is aware of this information and

has alerted their sources in this connection.

-E*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32291491 Page 5

---

