# docid-32292833

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

141 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10109

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2463

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/15/1974

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, DEPORTATION, MX

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292833

Page 1

373

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy-

Assassination Records

Collection dot

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGI,

COMMUNICATIONS SEG

CLACO

BY D32ARS

DENTEFANS FINALTZE

RUSTON COLETEE (DRO)

DATI : :

FTB027

9:5

SPM 8-15-74 DLM

SEC

SID

AUG 1 5 1974

T932 1105%

Assoc.

DTr.,

Dep.-A.D.Jádm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.-

Asst Bit

Comp.

Syst.

stilest&-Con

C8N

ETYPE

ident

Inspection

STATE 186

5:50 PM NITEL 8-15-74 JFJ

intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

TO DIRECIOR (92-3171)

NR 932-15

Training

FROM LÉGAT MEXICO CITY (92-13)

5 P

DECLASSTETEN BY SPOCLE KIS

ATI. INFORMATION CONTAINED

Legal Coun

Telephone Rm. =

UNCLASSIFIED

Director Sec'y -

ON 2/14/9p

HEREIN IS

RE SHOWN

EXCEPT WA

SAM GIANCANA, AKA;

OTHERW

SE

ASS. &

BY

FASON-F'CI/M

II,

1-2.4.2

DATE OF FAVIN

REBUTEL' AUGUST 12, 1974.U

3.81

COMMUNICATIONS FORWARDED TO THE BUREAU SINCE SUBJECT

ONaDV

WAS DEPORTED FROM MEXICO ON JULY 19, 1974, WERE NOT INTENDEDE

M CONUT THE IMPRESSIN THAT NOTE ThAT CON sE on e

SED LAMO

(5)

IO RESOLVE SOME OF THE UNANSWERED QUESTIONS PRESENTED BY

aIIS;

VARIOUS ASPECIS OF CAPTIONED MATTER. SOME OF THESE QUESTIONS

CAN BE ANSUERED, IN ERME, THOUGH SYMOLIZED SOURCES ANEWERS AI

OTHER CONTACIS OF THIS OFFICE. $

Creal 9-112

ten.

OFFICE:

112/85 Am

SAND FIELD

AUTING SLIP

WAS TAKEN INTO CUSTODY IN THE COURSE OF A MASSIVE RAID ON

HIS PREMISES IN CUERNAVACA, MORELOS, BY A SQUAD OF MEXICAN

GOVERNMENT AGENTS WHO WERE

ANTURBIED TO SEIZE PROPERTY,

DOCUMENTS AND OTHER PERTINENT MATERIALS.

BASE. LUSTAS, EXCAN LUNGSATION AS ARE A

3177-

7463

CHIEF, CAME TO THE

GATE IN THE WALL AT THE

STREET ENTRANCE,

AUG 16 1974

felon

67

10 g

D'AUG 2 1 1974

125

INDEFINI

DocId: 32292833 Page 2

---

## Page 3

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711-056

2T0Y- Meter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

PAGE TWO

SOME DISTANCE FROM THE ROUSE, AND WE

577 11 7

"ABLE TO ATTRACT THE

SUBJECT TO THIS ENTRANCE UNDER PRETEXI AND TAKE CUSTODY AT

THAT POINT. HE WAS NOT PERMITTED TO RE-ENTER THE PREMISES

AND WAS BROUGHT TO MEXICO CITY IN HIS BATH ROBE AND SHORTS.$

NO OTHER FEDERAL, STATE OR LOCAL MEXICAN AGENCY WAS

PARTICIPATING. AS A FOREIGNER ILLEGALLY IN MEXICO, SUBJECT WAS

EXCLUSIVELY WITHIN THE PROVINCE OF MEXICAN IMMIGRATION.

IT IS CLEAR THAT CIRCUMSTANCES CHANGED AND THAT THE

DEPORTATION OF SUBJECI RESULTED. THE SPECIFIC REASON MAY

NEVER BE DISCLOSED SINCE MEXICAN IMMIGRATION CAN CONVENIENTLY

POINI TO THE FACT THAI SUBJECI HAS BEEN "CIRCULARIZED"' SINCE

AT LEAST 1967 AND COULD NOT HAVE LEGALLY RESIDED IN MEXICO

FROM THAI TIME ON. OUR FILE SHOWS THAT MEXICAN IMMIGRATION,

AS EARLY AS SEPTEMBER, QOYYN INITIATED A REQUEST FOR INFOR-

MATION CONCERNING SUBJECI. LATER THAT SAME MONTH, MEXICAN

IMMIGRATION ADVISED SUBJECT HAD APPLIED TO CHANGE HIS STATUS

FROM TOURIST TO "RENTISTA

A HIGHER AND MORE PERMANENT

STATUS, AND WAS DENIED.

IT IS NOTED THAI THE SUBJECI'S ATTORNEY, JORGE CASTILLO,

HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS A PERSON WHO ALLEGEDLY HAS A GREAT DEAL

- Basilis

(vị)

DocId: 32292833 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744. USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

PAGE THREE

OF INFLUENCE WITH PRESIDENT LUIS ECHEVERRIA OF MEXICO. IT

IS A FACT THAT PRESIDENT ECHEVERRIA WAS ABSENT FROM MEXICO

DURING THE PERIOD IN. QUESTION WHILE ON A LATIN AMERICAN

TOUR FROM JULY 10-31, 1974. 7( PASC)

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS EXPECTED, FROM A NUMBER OF

MEXICO CITY SOURCES.*

THEY ARE MEX-34

WHO-HAS DEVELOPED A

RELATIONSHIP WITH ONE OF THE EMPLOYEES RICE)

THE HOUSEHOLD;

• OS MEX-287,

MEX-178, MEX -42, MEX-196

MEX- 349-PET AND OTHERS

ALL PERTINENT INFORMATION RESPONSIVE TO QUESTIONS RAISED IN

BUTEL, AUGUST 8, 1974, WILL BE IMMEDIATELY FORWARDED TO THE

BUREAU.

DURING THE ABSENCE OF THE CASE AGENT, WHO IS ON EXTENDED

LEAVE IN THE UNITED STATES, OTHER PERSONNEL ARE CONDUCTING

A DETAILED REVIEW OF THE MORE THAN 350 SERIALS IN THIS FILE TO

INSURE THAT ALL LOGICAL STEPS HAVE BEEN TAKEN ON INFORMATION

DEVELOPED OVER THE PAST EIGHT YEARS. THIS SURVEY WILL ALSO

SHOW WHETHER ALL CLEAR, SPECIFIC AND IMAGINATIVE LEADS,

INSTRUCTIONS AND GUIDELINES RECEIVED DURING THE SAME PERIOD

FROM THE OFFICE OF ORIGIN, THE BUREAU AND DEPARTMENT

HAVE BEEN SATISFACTORILY RESOLVED. PERTINENT RESULTS, ALONG

DocId: 32292833 Page 1

---

