# docid-32176436

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JIJILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10185-10102

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1231X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIT

FROM:

OSWALD, MARGUERITE

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1960

'PAGES: 986

SUBJECTS :

CC, LHO, POST-RP, REL, ASSOC, CP, 9/26/63, MIL SERV, ACT,

INQUIRY, INSTR, TESTIMONY, RHP, INVEST, JG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: BULKY ENC,INC 6 NOTES,R/S, 13 LTRS,RAP SHEET, 105 MEMO,4 EXH,4 ADMIN PAGES,30

TTY,49 A/T,7 RPT,2 CABLEGRAMS,10 INTV,7 NEWS ARTIC, 15 LHM,9 INSERTS,66

STATEMENTS, TRUE COPY,2 LAB RPT,ABSTRACT

v9.1

DocId: 32176436

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-19-39067

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

950020

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

9/18/64

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/9/64 - 9/10/64

OREST PENA, Aka.

10/23/98

SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS

CLASSIFIED BY 56d08 SuNned

CHARACTER OF CASE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

TYPED BY

i jas

IS - CUBA

mut is mrcorner!

INMORMATION CONTAI

ALL

REFERENCES:

response to your deguest and is not for dissensi

Fense ts tenures. to officia?

til wy the rel:

Report of SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS, 7/17/64,

St. Louis letter to the Bureau,

/Miami letter to New Arleans, 8/31/64.

. 8/25/64.

at New Orleans.

Bureau

airtel to New Orleans, 7/21/64.

4/22

WFO airtel to Director, 7/30/64.

Classin

Legat,

ed by gasess/er

Legat,

Parag letter to Bureau,

legat,

Bonn letter to Bureau,

7/27/64.

Declassify on: DADE

JFK

Rome

New Orleans

letter to Bureau,

7/30/64.

8/11/64.

letter to Bureau, 9/10/64.

0-17 to_d 0.

LEADS:

Miss.olil6y

Date _9-74-64

ATLANTA DIVISION

By virni/5r

Remarka-

since duit it:

Clessified Freet

AT COLUMBUS

GEORGIA eless, find.

Belmos

119

ecto

ecto

Will expedite coverage of lead set forth for the

A

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

' 10 - Bureau (REGISTERED

• MAIL)

(1 - 105-82555, OSWALD)

1 - INS, New Orleans (RM)

2 - Atlanta (REGISTERED MAIL)

2 - Dallas (REGISTERED MAIL)

(1 - 100-10461, OSWALD)

2 - New York (REGISTERED MAIL)

2 - New Orleans (105-1926)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105+130460 - 18:209

(Info.)

116 SEP 21 1964

is

COPY

REG 17

UIRECORDEO

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

"CopY TO: 611/91010/310

DATE FWD....

HOW FWD...

-Listiano.

NOTATIONS

Pur From

2 coper

71a/19/0y

ON RESECRET

V.8. 00V11

16 oriter

18-78324-1

DocId: 32176436 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 105-1925

WDC: jas

Atlanta Division in referenced New Orleans report.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY NEW YORK

Will expedite coverage of leads set forth in

referenced New Orleans report dated 7/17/64 and will also

tained pertinent information regarding this subject con-

in the report of SA J. WILLIAM LOVE dated 11/30/62

at New

York and captioned, "CUBAN SABOTAGE EFFORTS IN THE

UNITED STATES" (New York file #105-58712). New York should

submit results of investigation in report form.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

FILE WHERE LOCATED

NO T-1 is the Prefecture ot

Police in Paris, France)S)

NO T-2 is the Spanish High

General Staff,

Madrid, Spains)

NO T-3 is the Directorate

General of Security, Madrid,

Spain

NO T-4 is the Italian Armed

Forces

Intelligence Service

(STARS L

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-28

Tuat

B*

(COVER PAGE)

SECRET

DocId: 32176436

Page 3

---

## Page 4

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 U5C-2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

TD-20: (Rev. 35-89)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Till:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

1 - Immigration and Naturalization Service,

New Orleans, Louisiana (REGISTERED MAIL)

SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

September 18, 1964

NO 105-1926

Bureau File No.:

OREST PENA

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

3/3/97

Classified by 2803RDD/RSR

Declassifv on: DADI JFK)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERED IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WARRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Military records re subject reveal he was inducted

into the U. S. Army 1/28/49 at New York, N. Y., and

served on active duty until 1/27/50 on which date

he was honorably discharged from active duty and

transferred to U.S.. Army Reserve Corps until

6/12/54 when he was honorably discharged."

Subject

validated for emergency service in U. S. Merchant

Marine and issued Merchant Marine Document #

Z-1068920. Merchant Marine records for subject for

period 2/55 through 10/57 set forth. " Subject's

identification record set forth. Information

received from confidential source abroad re subject's

past travel in Europe fails to reflect any pertinent

contacts made by subject during such travel.

this instigation was and named tat subjecte

in the past planned to travel to Europe and Moscow,

advised that he has been unable to develop any

information

is anti-CASTRO.

to change source's opinion that subject

DETAILS:

Excluded fron-utanatio

downgrating and,

declassification

A review of the military service records on file

at the Military Personnel Records Senter, st. Louis,

Missouri, for ORESTES FARNICIO PENA, Serial Number 51 061 050,

indicated he was inducted into the U.S. Army on January 28,

1949 at New York, New York, and served on active duty until

January 27, 1950, at which time he was honorably released fron

SECRET

la document contalas neither recorendations on teal not o destit do devotee the T'BI and is loaned to your agency: It and

DocId: 32176436 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

WCD: Jas

105-1926

On July 9, 1964, NO I-1, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject resided at the Grand Hotel,

2 rue Scribe, Paris 9, from May 6-12, 1964.

Source advised

that since that date he has no longer been present in the

Paris, France area.

Source added that subject is unknown

to the

records of the various services of the Prefecture of

Police in Paris.

During his brief stay in Paris he did not

come to the attention of the French authorities (s)

On July 20, 1964, NO T-2, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on

May 12, 1964 at Barajas Airport (Madrid). He took up

residence at the Hotel Plaza, Madrid, where he remained until

May 22, at which time

he departed from the hotel. His

destination was unknown but it was believed that

he had left

Spain at that time.

Source advised that subject did not come

to security notice during his stay in Spain.

Spanish records

reflected that he was the bearer of U. S: passport #92577

issued to him in Washington, D. C. on June 25, 1963. He

arrived in Spain under the auspices of the American Express

Company Travel Agency (S)

a confidential

source abroad, on eated substant all the amerinentmation

supplied by confidential source NO T-2.

Instant source

added, however, that Spanish records reflected that subject

was born August 15, 1923 in the United States and that

his permanent place of residence was listed by him as New

Orleans, Louisiana (S)

Confidential informant NO T-4, a confidential

source abroad, advised as follows on August 7, 1964:

ORESTES PENA, born August 15, 1923, in Cuba,

a United States citizen, arrived at Fiumicino Airport,

Rome, Italy, on Trans World Airlines flight number 900

on May 22, 1964, coming from Madrid, Spain. PENA

bore

passport number

D-092577, issued

at Washington, D. C.,

on June 25, 1963. While in Rome, PENA lodged

at the Hotel

• Commodoio.

- 6-

SFCRED

DocId: 32176436 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11514884447

DECRI

$22

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

OREST PENA,

Aka.

DATE

9/18/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA WARREN C.

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/9/64 - 9/10/64

DE BRUEYS

TYPED BY

Pjas

11

10123198.

CLASSIFIED AY 5608-5L0hide

1. 064

SFiC

IS - CUBA

REFERENCES:

CONTAINE!

INFORMATION

SHOWN

Report of SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS,

St. Louis letter to the Bureau,

7/17/64, at New Orleans

Miami letter to New Orleans, 8/31/64.

8/25/64.

Bureau airtel to New Or10/30/64.

NFO airtel to Director,.

7/21/64

4/22/93

Classified by 2503eM/E4

Legat, Paris letter to Bureau, 7/27/64.

Legat, Bonn letter to Bureau,

Legat, Rome letter to Bureau,

7/30/64.

Declasshy

New Orleans letter to Bureau,.

8/11/64

9/10/64

0-17 to d.0.

1

LEADS:

11b: 0/1/64

Date_9-74-64

By Uiryi/51

ATLANTA DIVISION Remarks Repho Classitice Jerket

AT COLUMBUS, GEORGIA elissi fiel.

Belmon?

1/1/6k

119

ecto

Will expedite coverage of lead set forth for the:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPEN CHARGE

AGENT.

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

' 10 - Bureau (REGISTERED

MA IL)

(1 - 105-82555; OSWALD)

105

130460 + 18-108

1 - INS, New Orleans (RM)

- Atlanta (REGISTERED MAIL)

2 - Dallas (REGISTERED MAIL) (Info.)

(1 - 100-10461,

OSWALD)

1T6 SEP 2,1 1964

2 - New York (REGISTERED MAIL)

2 - New Orleans (105-1926)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT."

is escored in response to your request andis not for dissemi-

REQUEST REED.

coy der dung a cup

NOTATIONS MAN IN CIN

ay root

be disclosed to

forked season-

tre FBI.

70/19/04

1346160 bidete

SECRETI

Al - ma

NAT. RO

• 4.8.0041944648

COPY FILED IN

REG. 17

UNRECORDED

PIMO ORDICE

10-78326-1

DocId: 32176436 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 105-1925

WDC : jas

Atlanta Division in referenced New Orleans report.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Will expedite coverage of leads set forth in

referenced New Orleans report dated 7/17/64 and will also

report, pertinent information regarding this subject con-

tained

in the report of SA J. WILLIAM LOVE dated 11/30/62

at New

York and captioned,

"CUBAN SABOTAGE EFFORTS IN THE

UNITED STATES" (New

York file #105-58712). New York should

submit results of investigation in report form.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO I-1 is (the Frefecture

Police in Paris, France ls)

NO I-21s the Spanish High

General Staff, Madrid, Spain

NO T-3 is the Directorate

General of Security, Madrid,

Spain

NO I-4 is (the Italian Armed

Forces

Intelligence Service

FILE WHERE LOCATED

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

S )

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-28

Suit

•B*.

(COVER PAGE)

SECRED

DocId: 32176436 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released

under' the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC]2107 Hotel.

DATE:

11-14-2017

570-20% (Re7. 3-8-80)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Titl:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

1 - Immigration and Naturalization Service,

New Orleans, Louisiana (REGISTERED MAIL)

SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

September 18, 1964

NO 105-1926

Bureau File No..

OREST PENA

HEREIN IS UNCUASSIFIED

Character:

Synopsis:

SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Diselosure

NATIONAL

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

DETAILS:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

31/3/93

Classified by

9503200/ESR

Declassify on MADA (5FK)

Military records re subject reveal he was inducted

Into the U. S. Army 1/28/49 at New York, N. Y., and

served on active duty until 1/27/50 on which date

he was honorably discharged from active duty and

transierred to U.S. Army Reserve Corps until

6/12/54 when he was honorably discharged.

Subject

validated for emergency service in U. S.

Merchant

Marine and issued Merchant Marine Document #

Z-1068920, / Merchant Marine records for subject for

period 2/55 through 10/57 set forth. / Subject's

identification record set forth. Information

received from confidential source abroad re subject's

past travel in Europe fails to reflect any pertinent

contacts made by subject during such travel. v

The person who allegedly made the allegation on which

this investigation was based namely, that subject

in the past planned to travel to Europe and Moscow,

advised that he has been unable to develop any

information to change source's opinion that subject

is. anti-CASTRO

A review of the military service records on file

at the Military Personnel Records Center, St. Louis,

Missouri, for ORESTES FARNICIO PENA, Serial Number 51 061 050,

indicated he was inducted into the U. S. Army on January 28,

1949 at New

York, New York, and served on active duty until

January 27, 1950, at which

time he was honorably released from

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the

FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32176436 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

WED: Jas

105-1926

On July 9, 1964, NO T-1, a confidential source

abroad, revealed

that subject resided at the

Grand Hotel,

"Source advised

that since

area. Source added that subject is unknown

to the records of the various services of the Prefecture of

Police in Paris.

During his brief stay in Paris he did not

come to the attention of the French authorities. (s)

On July 20, 1964, NO T-2, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on

May 12, 1964 at Barajas Airport (Madrid). He took up

residence at the Hotel Plaza, Madrid, where he remained

until

May 22, at which time he departed from the hotel.

His

destination was unknown but it was believed that he had left

Spain at that time. Source advised that subject did not come

to security notice during his stay in Spain. Spanish records

reflected that he was the bearer of U. S. passport #92577

issued to him in Washington, D. C. on June 25,

1963.

arrived in Spain under

the auspices' of the American Express

Company Travel Agency (5)

NO T-3,

a confidential

source abroad, revealed Substant ay the ame ideotation

supplied by confidential source NO T-2. Instant source

added, however, that Spanish records reflected that subject

was born August 15, 1923 in the United States and that

his permanent place of residence.

was listed by him as New

Orleans, Louisiana. (5)

Confidential informant NO I-4, a confidential

source abroad, advised as follows on August 7, 1964:

ORESTES PENA, born August 15, 1923, in Cuba,

a United States citizen, arrived at riumicino Airport,

Rome, Italy, on Trans World Airlines flight number 900

on May 22, 1964, coming from Madrid, Spain. PENA bore

passport number D-092577, issued at

Washington, D. C.,

on June 25, 1963.

While in Rome, PENA lodged at the Hotel

Commodoro.

-6-

SECRED

DocId: 32176436 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mie AftarRRY General

DiroatoR, IBI

1-HT. J. B. Adams

2-Hr: J:

A. Hintz

(1-MI. J. Bö Hotls)

Noteber 8, 1978

1-Hr•

W. Bo. Wannall

1-Hr.. We

0. Cregar

I-MT. A. J: Duffin

E8 (82C)

do rado to sac lottar entod duotaniar Is.

safarones In alDO sado to FBI amoraston dated detaber?..

response to thalt royaont of Soptember 1B, 1978.

1875; P9X8 3.

norasden.

upplomontary naterial requested by lis. Seldel on Osteber 29,

1975, aro onslodod for your records.

it appens this roguent on botall of tha SAc hai

o do vita tho poratate polition) aluato of the fBI. Sine

the material boing faralshod luciudan thito loneo rateriai.

1t 1a roguonted that yon clons 1t9 pastago olta the valto

HONDo prier to forMardlAy to tho BIc.

Encloseres (1)

ST 110

07-116985

1 - The

ity Attarsa

REC-762-116 375W9-

Atten

Alchaal E

spontal

4 ENCLOSURE Into 121

Resentle

1 DEG 5 1975

JRH: jv1

Assoc, Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Loboratory

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Tight DEE 1 RA19750m=

PLM

GPO 954:546

TELETYPE UNIT [

DocId: 32176436

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-HT. J:

B. Adaus

2-НT: J.

A.

Mintz

(1-HT.

B. Hotis)

1-kr •

Wannalt

1-Ar. N. 0. Cregar

1-HT.

A. J. Duffin

Movouber 5, 1875

62-116395

U, B. SENATE BELICT CONNITTEN

10 ETUDY COVINAMENTAL OPERATIONE

VITE RESPECT TO INISLLIGENCI ACTIVITIXN (BBC)

BE:

ABNUEST YOR DELIVART OF MATERIALS MICH

ARE SUPFLENBNTARY TO BIE RIQUEBTS ON

ReferanCe la nado to SIC letter datod Saptorbor 1B,

197Б,

which requested sceans or dellvery of satorials,.

many

of untch sto supplomentary to pilor SSC roquents of July 28,

1975, Part 8, Do, And August 20, 1875, PAFt 8. 1. A.

On October 29, 1975, IT. Lostar Saidal, ESC 8tu11

Monber, requested dellvery ol materiala rolattag to the

folloming categorios of SSC rogusat al September 18, 1978:

3. C.

NAR

Ih18 15 to advine that the natariala roquested

by it. seldol vill bo dollvarod vith thia menorandas.

1 - The Attorney General

JRM: jv1

(9)

ORIGINAL AND ONE COPY TO AG

NOTE:

who tol

Material per request of Mr. L. Seidel, SSC Staff

on 10/29/75,

is ready for delivery.

The passage of

these itens to SSC has been Cleared athi appropriate personnel

of the General Investigative bivision.

pun

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training -

Legal Coun

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

DocId: 32176436 Page 11

MAIL ROOM D

TELETYPE UNIT C

62-116 345-1119

GPO 954-546

---

## Page 12

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOIt.

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS

APPROPRIATE

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

FROM:

ATTN: Central Index

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

HOW PROVIDED (check appropriate term.

If a document was made available

2.

for review but not transmitted,

note.)

DATE

PROVIDED

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

11/5/75

TO WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if

appropriate)

SSC

4. IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive data

interviewee, testifier and subject)

for documents; five name or identification

number

Memorandum and enclosures

5.

RESPONSE TO (list date

and item

number

if in response to

formal request, other-

wise. state verbal request of (name), initiative, subpoena,

12015 Ter 9a 275 8223, Po supplementary to

6.

CLASSIFICATION

OF

INFORMATION (enter

U,

C,

S,

TS or

Codeword)

U

7. KEY

wonder fineer the phasipriate key words from the list provided separately; if key

words not listed are

Information handling

SUMMARY (see

side before completing this item)

Files on Warren Bommission Critics and

Investigation.

NAR

62-116395

FMK: fmk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS TELLOW

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

379116-751

DocId: 32176436

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

• Indicate classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

• "FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

•: If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate. Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted.

Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

DocId: 32176436*

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

J. A. Mintz

.. - MI. J. B. Hotia)

. Mr. W.

MI.

W.

R. Hannall

0. Cregar

•ME.

H.

W. Porter

January 5, 1976

The Attorney

Direetor, FBI

PIONS VI!

IVITIES (88C)

la nado to a lotter to dir

/ 44 D

21,

114na

s8c in the original of a l

¡tuna S and 6 Of tha tova

toxophose survallleros

A copy of chla i

pour secarde.

BREJOsUras (2)

'SI, 115)

62-216395

1 - FRo DI

tantion

Assoc. Dir.

HWP

Dop. AD Adm. - (9)

Dep. AD tir.

Asst: Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Attairs: _

Files & Com. -

Idant..

Ins piction s

Intell.

Laboratory

Spac. Inv

Training

CLOSURE

PLiS

ПЕСУ! СОЛИЕГ

WECRISE

BECEINED

8 4 JAN 2 8 1976

MAIL ROOM BE TELETYPE UNIT L

DocId: 32176436

Page 14

25

3 to tha

REC-51

= do balsa farnlahed tos

62-116-395-1255

5 JAN 2G 1976

VEROCIVIE DISECIOU

• 04

BECCIACO

DEC 31 31

16. 28

vaDie

A Ma 5-101/8

СРОХ Iв15 O

1-9.16

Delivered to

---

## Page 15

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

The Attorney General

NOTE:

This manorandon effects delivery of natarial

relating to Items 5 and 6 of the November 21 SSC request,

and completes our response to requents of the sSc in thir

lotter.

An ennet copy of documenta being delivered to th

3SC la balng retained in the senstudy 73 Project

NAR

2 C

DocId: 32176436

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 444 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

1

MI.

MI.

MI. J. B. Hotis)

W.

R. Hannall

W.

0. Cregar

W. Porter

62-116395

ansasy S, 1976

SEE.

Iron 5 - Hask 500

Itar

sardar Corala, 1968.

NAR

HMP sen in

(8)

Assor. Dir.

Dop. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD lav.

Asst. Dir.:

"Admin

Comp, Syst.

MAIL ROOM CE TELETYPE UNIT LEN

ENCLOSURE

6211639512557-

DocId: 32176436

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC. 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

REQUEST PERTAINING TO AUTHORIZATION

AND PURPOSE OF BLRCTRONIC SURVEILLANOSE

CONDUCTED BY THE FBI

With respot to Item 6,

VAL

1- The Attorney General

DocId: 32176436

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

DEFUKE LUMPLETING.

TO:

Intelligence Cumility Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

HOW PROVIDED /checklappropriate term.

for review

but not transmitted,

If a document was made available

note.)

2..

DATE PROVIDED

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

1/5/76

3. TO WHOM PROVIDED: (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

SSC

HSC

#. TDENTIFICATION (provide-descriptive data for documents; live name or *dentification number or briefer.

interviewee.

testifier and

subject)

Memorandum and enclosures

5.

RESPONSE TO

(list date

wise state verbal

request

and item number if

of (name), initiative,

forma! reque

subpoena,

etc.)

SSC letter 11/21/75, items 5 and 6

provided

other.

6.

CLASSIFICATION

OF

INFORMATION

U,. C.

(enter

S, TS or

Codeword)

U

rately; if key words not listed

8.

underline

appropriate key

words from

emphasis)

Surveillance, electronic

SUMMARY (see

before completing this item)

Materials pertaining to authorization and purpose of electronic

surveillances conducted by the FBI. Specifically microphone

surveillances on Mark Lane and Mariaa Oswald, 1964;

NAR

62-116995

FMK: fmk

(4)

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75

TREAT AS YELLOW

3791 16:751

CLASSIER AS APPROPFIASE

62.11638+1255%

ENTE

DocId: 32176436

Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107

DATE: - 11-14÷2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

sola 100

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEM: REÖF NO.: 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

MI. W.

FROM

W. 0.

regar Wol

SUBJECT:

SENSTUDY 75

1

1

Mr.

Mr.

- Mr.

DATE:

- Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

J.

Adams

Jenkins

A.

Mintz

2/6/76

Moore

Wannall

0.

Gregar

DJAY

Hotel.

Adm

Comp. Syst

ExY

Affairs

Files & Com

Gon! Inv.

Ident.

espection

Intell

Special Prosecutor or

received some press coverage

most of which dealt with

The speech, (attached)

Senator Church's proposal ch

to 1ook into the so-called intelligence abuses.

area special prosecutor be designated

In brief

the statement by Senator Church reviews

that information which was the subject of testimony by the

najority and minority counsels of the Senate Select Countttee

(SSC) before the full Committee on 11/18/75. No new so-calles

abuses were identified by Senator Church and the beech vas

verely a rehash of those activities condicted by the Intel

ligence community over the years which the SSc now describes

as abuses.

Specifically, the Church statement makes reference

to the following:

62 116

39S

- 1381

NAR

A FEB IY

62-116395

CONTINUED - OVER

/ ENCLOSURE

AIME

8 4 FEB 2 5 1976

DocId: 32176436

Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

-DATE:, 11-14-2017

GOVERNMENT ADHERELICE TO THE LAW:

A. CALL FOR A TEMPORARY SFECIAL PROSECUTOR ON INTELLIGENCE ABUSES

By

Senator Frank Church

NAR

ENCLOSET

1381

DocId: 32176436

Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NAR

NAR

74 Percent agreed

wrong for the CIA to work out a deai with Mafia characters

try-to

assassinate Castro."

MAR

NAR

DocId: 32176436

Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Repords Collection Ast of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE € 11-14-2017:

22Ea5

SECRET

EIZCTEONEO SUOTMILLADOSS

DEINCON

1 - tir. = saci:

1 - Miss Noimes

Sento:::31 ,

1053

1

- Mr.

Gals

- Me. Suiliven

1 - M.

C. D. Ersanan

05 Kme US 45 2-27-94

Classified try Sp8 mat/K3R

BOÎOPORCO Ès mais to my noncinada: cated

wich Inatod the oldstaonas surveillanoes araiting

your aproval.

Corcorring Cha telchholo O701110200 10.00000 87

N2022"

432428g

1003,

tie 201.2al

" this daguest

is joins withdacua vocause dio Convoation is over.

Crazont?

cocisions

a the solios?

individuzis

23d

nicotices:

0:

TEL

pricking

(/ 1

SNOWS

151-8531

NO HELORDEN

00T 11 7358

16ir1

A519

-581

TEEP 10 100

6

ETUr

JAN 241363

nor denta

6R03

Excluddy

leon autonatic

or and

belaeda

Dation

DocId: 32176436

Page

22

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE*

11-14-2017

SECRE]

10

12

NA

(S

Angolo Eruno; Philadolonia in Cooa Nostra "Braily,"

mailedolphia, Ponnsylvani..

Reguosied on july 16, 1950, for

Accordy t0

make application for a court order to institute fous

rizataps and one niciophone saavelliance.

11.

Juan lari Eras, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Péquested

13,

1953.

15.

16.

17

MICROFIONS QUEVRILIANORS

Angelo Eruno coso, Prilndelphia, Pennsylvania.

noted above,

one migronione suveillance is includad in tho raguesi

of july 16,

1903, in the bruno cras.

(S

Tho requested clectronic curucillancos ie 1n criticci

ensos-and this curoau is raking-evory fonsible offort to oubain

lasconcial intelligence infoization in tha intormal occurity encos

and to develop cridouce of violation in tho Angolo cruno case.

FOR SORES

SECRET

DocId: 32176436 Page 23

---

## Page 24

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107. Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

The Attorney Conoral

SECRET

NOZE:

Currently there ao 17 tolophone surveillance roguests

and three requesis for micronhone surveillaces avaiting cyproval

by the Atiornay General. Cur last overail follow-up vas

sont or

August 6, 1050. Tollow-ups have been sent since then in individua:

CASES IS

deaned wazzantor. Jince there have been soveral changes

in tho list since the last overall follow-up, August 6, 1503,

currelt list is being lunishod him pointing out the urgent need

for his docisions.

Withchanai of the icquest for telopions

surveillance coverage of the lntional Mobilisation Office for

Devonstrations at the National Donocratic Convention is made

because the Convention is over.

This memorandur is classified "Top Secret" since

unauthorized disclosure could result in exceptionally grave

danage to U.S. intelligence interests.

T92 SECE

-44-3-

DocId: 32176436

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Ant of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE € 11-14-2017.

-.-.

SECRET S

•ar.

1 - Miss Hoincs

ThC AUSPIOY 632059-

1023

Ms.

Gala

-

Hit.

Sulliven

912006-5, 281

- Mr.

C. D. Breanan

ORman 7-27-9

EZEROES S0a7arL223013

DEINCON

chased hy sp8 man /ise

Goulassify on: OADK JFK

ROOPORCO

As tais to ny nonsincan cated

wich linted the olostronts curvosilences maiting yous ap.

Corcort:

Faciacal

402-06g

1900," this request 102

is boing withdrena soonues

the Conication is over.

Crazonel

maited concorning covorgeR on the 101102.25

¡cations:

AL SHOWN

BRINGSY

NAR

151-858

1 1 18:80

-Cx 709

6

FIU.

OG7.7i958

JAN 241963

TRUETYPE UNIT L

USE!

502.020804

SEZ N022 FACE 272-

GROS

Excludety from autonatic

jumcrahang and

ochedsirication

W 1

DooId: 32176436

Page 25

---

## Page 26

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hotey:

DATE: 11-14-2017

132 7582.

nish

*Who Autorney Gonceal

13.

mileriolphia,

Angelo Eruso; Philadolphia in Cosa Fostra "Jarily,"

Pannsylvanis.

"Requesied on July 16, 1900, for

nuthority

make replication for a court orcer

to instituta fou=

pirataos and one microplone survalllance.

on

July

14.

Juan-Hari Eras, San Juan, Puerto RiCo.

Requested

13,

19SS.

MICRORSONE DUETOILTANONO

Angelo suuno coso, Frilndolphia, Pornsylvania.

noted above,

microniona surveillance is included in tho request

july 16, 1903,

in the truno ease.

S

The requested clectronic surveillances are 1a criticai

encos and this purcau is anting crory fonsibic offort to obtain

incontial intolligence intomacion in tha intornal sccurity ences

and to dovelop cvicouce of violation in tho Angolo sruno case.

TOP, SECREL

-3=1a.

DocId: 32176436 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

thort ter iter

Chach master tolder

DocId: 32176436

Page 27

---

## Page 28

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Art of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TOP SECEST

The Attorney Canoial

NOTE:

Currantly there ase 17 tolophone surveillence rocuests

and thice rcaucsis for microphone surveillances avaiting approval

by the Attornay Goneral. Our last overail follow-lp vas sont oz

Augusi o, 1050. 70110-u25 have bean sent since thor in individuai

doened varzantor. Sirco there have beon several changes

in tho list sinco the last overall 10li0H-up, August 6, 1503, a

current list is being lumisbod him pointing out the urgeni need

{oi his docisions. Mithdanai of the request for telopions

surveillance covorage of the Rational

nobilization office for

Demonstrations at the National Democratic Corvention is nade

because the Convention is over.

This memorandun is classified "nep Secret" since

unauthorized disclosure could result in exceptionally grave

danage to U.S. intelligence interests.

F0D-SE0201

DocId: 32176436

Page 28

---

## Page 29

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Ast of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-I4-2017

-...

1 - tir. =üoko:

1 - Hiss Moines

Te A0ds2203 607059-

1033

Direc4u5, 321

і д

1

- Hi. Gale

sit.

Sulliven

- Mi. C. D. Brennan

7-27-94

DENNICON

Juneasily on: DADR (JFK)

is maid to ny noacenade dated

136

which locoa

the electronze survcillanoes avaiting

ye. 22.

1220,

•0431.

CorconI::

datod tch 32, 1500, Cranacaad "DenonethrüionS at

the

7a6172a1

Dorocanike Convention,

nando, 1003," this sequast for corsage

is joins withdrama seenues the Conzeation is over •

301:1

Cocisions

the colloren

ind

pala

YALu

ais

free.

T

ACTION COETAS

"CLASSIFIES

TERE SHOWIN

154-1581

A KILORDED

REY AND

00T 11 1508

2109 2S 29F

CCO02

FAGS FE

SHUr

OCT 795a

A JAN 241969

PLETIPE UNITE

SOr?

Excluded

1o0200C11103:101

DocId: 32176436

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JaCi

CEN

Tho Autornay Gonceal

10

13.

philadelphia,

Angolo Bruno; Philadolphia In Cosa Nostra "Enaily,"

Pennaylvznia.

Requesied on July 1s, 1900,

duchesity to make conlication for a court order to instituto fous

pirataos and one micropiose survaillance.

14.

JU27-101 Bras;

San Juan, Fuerto Rico. Reguested

July

19,

1953.

MICROFISIS CUNVOIIEAUO2S

2.

Angelo Zuuno coso, Philndolphia, Ponnsylvania.

As

noted

above,

one mierontone surveillance is included in two roguest

Of July 16, 1903,

in the bruno erse.

The

requosted cloctronic survillances are in critical

cross end

this purosu is asking overy fonsible offor to abscia

lassontial intollironce infoinacion in tha intomal occurity eases

and to dovelop cricouce of violation in tho Angolo bruno case.

DocId: 32176436 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Released under the John F. KennedyrAssassination Records Collection Art of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FOR SECREL

• The Attorney Caroral

10R2:

Currently there are 17 tolophone curveillance rccuests

and tice roancsts for microphons surveillancos avaiting approval

by the attornay General. Our last overail follow-up was sont or

Augusi s, 1950.

Follow-ups have bean sent since then in individual

doened warranter. Since there have beon several changes

in the fist sibee cho lage overall follow-up, august o, isce, a

current list is being furnished nin pointing out the urger

ips his ¿ccisions.

vithchanal of the icquost for telopions

surveillance coverage of the lintional Mobilization Oisice for

Devonstrations at the ilational Donocratic Convention is made

because the Convention is over.

This memorandun is classified "Top Secret" since

unauthorized disclosure could result in exceptionally grava

danage to U.S. intelligence interests.

FOR SCORE

DocId: 32176436

Page 31

---

