# docid-32292207

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10208-10483

HQ

92-3267-80

Released under the John

F. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45945 Date:

41-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO:

DODGE, HAROLD F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/26/1960

38

JRO, RES, BKG, ASSOC, FISUR, RACK AND SUBV, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 4;11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE la, INDEX PAGES 27-28

v9.1

HH 45945

DocId: 32292207

7

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-113

HED: CJW

The identity of the Special Agents who conducted

the physical surveillances set out in this report pan be

found in the 1A section of this file. LoUIs SALOERER

U. S. Post Office,

Los Angeles,

change of address from 1251 N. Crescent Heights Boulevard.

On 10/20/60;

Frequests vere sent to the

NEVADA

"the Bureau for

authorization to place mail covers on ROSSELLI's apartment at

1251 N. Crescent Heights Boulevard and the apartment of BETSY

DUNCAN at 882 N. Doheny Drive In Los Angeles.

Letters are being directed to the Phoenix, San Diego,

and Houston Offices requesting identification of the

Dude, at eated

subscribers to the telephone numbers in these cities to which

numbers ROSSELLI was charged with calls as set out in the

attached report.

INFORMANTS

LA T-1

LA T-2

LA T-3

LA I-4

LA I-5

EVERETT STANHOUSE,

Assistant Operations Officer

California Bank

Highland-Santa Monica Branch

Los Angeles, California

LA 3445-0

MELVIN COOPER

459 Desert Inn Road

Las Vegas, Nevada

DEAN WALKER

Operations Officer

Bank of America

Sunset-Wetherly Branch

Los Angeles, California

MAY SCHAEFFER

Membership Clerk

American Federation of Television

and Radio Artists

Los Angeles, Califomnia

-C -

COVER PAGE

NH 45945 DocId:32292207 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

HFD: CJW

LA T-6

LA 1-7

LA I-8

LA T-9

LA T-10

LA T-II

LA T-12

LA T-13

LA 4222-C

CSLA 4178-S

PETER ROSAN

Operations Officer

Bank of America

Laurel-Sunset Branch

7966 Sunset Boulevard

Los Angeles, California

R. ROSE

Loan Officer

Bank of America

Laurel-Sunset Branch

7966 Sunset Boulevard

Los Angeles, California

PATRICK W. FULLER

Inspector in Charge

Internal Revenue Inspection Service

1031 South Broadway

Los Angeles, California

DON L. BISBING

Assistant Vice President

Fidelity Bank

9570 Wilshire Boulevard

Beverly H11ls, California

LEO E. WECKERLE

Accounting Department

Union Bank and Trust Co.

Eighth and Hill

Los Angeles, Califomia

BRUCE DELMONICO

Operations Officer

California Banl

Nilshire-Oxford Branch

Los Angeles, California

-D -

COVER PAGE

NH 45945 DocId:32292207 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

HFD: CJW

2.

Will determine the subscriber to telephone No.

SK 1-1483,

to which

ROSSELLI was

charged with a toll call on

3/9/60.

SALT LAKE CITY

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA: 1.

Will maintain contact with

CIs for information concerning ROSSELLI's activities in Las

Vegas and will advise the Los Angeles Office when information

is obtained that ROSSELLI. intends to visit Los Angeles.

2.

Will furnish identifying information regarding

GEORGE GORDON, who reportedly has some connection with the Desert

Inn Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, inasmuch as it is possible that

ROSSELLI visited this man in August while GORDON was at the

Beverly Comstock Hotel in Beverly Hills, Calif.

3. Will maintain contact with appropriate authorites

to ascertain whether a gambling license is applied for for the

Carver House Hotel.

4. Will conduct investigatión to determine if LOUIS

J. LEDERER has been residing in Las Vegas since about the first

• of October.

5. Will ascertain the subscribers to the unidentified

telephone numbers in Las Vegas set out in this report which were

charged to the telephone number of ZELMA DE WAR, aka BETSY

DUNCAN and to JOHN ROSSELLI.

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIF.: 1. Will maintain contact

with LA 4145-C, LA 3445-C, and LA 4129-C for information concern-

ing ROSSELLI's

activities.

2. Will maintain contact with the following banks

for information concerning ROSSELLI's activities:

California Bank, Highland-Santa Monica Branch, where

ROSSELLI has a personal bank account.

California Bank, Beverly Hills Branch, Beverly Hills,

Calif., where JAMES CANTILLON maintains a trustee account,

-B.

COVER PAGE

HW 45945 DocId: 32292207 Page 4

---

