# docid-32330581

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/1/2015

Agency. Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10012

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-35-358

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/05/1965

2

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

V9.1

DocId: 32330581

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 444 USC 2107 Hotej:

DATE: 11-14-2017

OC 92-52A

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHENS, aka

OC 166-117; DALLAS 92-213

OC 441-C has advised this week that MATTHEWS is

in Oklahoma City

Informant does not know the purpose. of

visit but believes he is staying with GEORGE EDWARD

*BARNES, who has recently returned from a gambling trip to

Las Vegas.

HORACE PERRYTHAILEY, aka "ROPE"

OC 31-7178

LITTLE ROCK 87-7269

During an interview this week with BILiAllaVeN

in connection with telephone calls made to his residence

JEAN WALRAVEN is a

HORACE PERRY HAILEY.

According to BILL WALRAVEN,

HAILEYs visited them in the latter part of 1964 and that in

December, 1964, HORACE PERRY HAILEY was voluntarily admitted

to the Federal Hospital at Lexington,

Kentucky to take the

"cure". WALRAVEN said he believed HAILEY was scheduled

for six months of treatment.

IKE MONROE WINKLE, JF.

OC 92-248

A PCI in Clinton, Oklahoma area has advised that

WINKLE participated in a dice game at the Calmez Hotel in

Clinton on the night of 2/10-11/65. PCI learned at this

time that WINKLE had recently seriously beaten an individual

from the panhandle area of the state known as "WAYNOKA BOB"

Another PCI, who is an associate of WINKLE, advised

this week that WINKLE

has been "barred" from gambling at

Clinton apparently because

of WINKLE's use of crooked dice.

PCI said WINKLE had attempted to join the VFW Club in

Clinton in order to have

access to dice games, but that

WINKLE's application had been rejected and the initial

payment made by WINKLE had been returned to him.

-2 -

DocId: 32330581 Page 2

---

