# docid-32302619

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10131

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

165-1458-1, IST NR 1, 2, 3, 4, 5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PHELAN, JOHN F. JR.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/23/1964

PAGES:

59

• SUBJECTS :

ABR, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, TOLL CALLS, RECORDS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 RPT, 3 A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32302619

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releasedrunder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot "ôf 1992 744 USe

DATE: 11-14-2017

- Hote) .

PH 165-457

Leads (Continued)

2.

Will also advise results of toll telephone

calls on telephone of ORINO ANDRICOLA, number NO 5-0525.

PHILADELPHIA

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Will continue efforts to identify a JIMMY GRADY

and a FATTY (INU).

2. Will ascertain if JOHN AMATO may be identical

with JOSEPH OF JAKE D'AMATO based on Information furnished by

Lt. JOHN BARRON.

Administrative Data

By communication dated 4/23/64 the Newark Office

advised that indices were negative concerning E. JENKINS and

Mrs. MARY CORRIGAN.

Newark also advised that the information

obtained from the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company on 3/4/64

was

furnished

. to IC HERBERT C. MEYER by NK 1741-CS.

The information received from the Commonwealth

telephone Company, Dallas, Pa., on 5/22/64 was furnished to

SA FREDERICK T. HOULIHAN by WILLIAM UMPHRED, the Commercial

Supervisor of that company.

By communication dated 6/9/64 the Boston Office

advised that no record could be located in Boston indices

concerning the following:

JOSEPH Or JAKE D'AMATO

LOU GORDON

PHILIP OLIVERE

RITA MONZO

Mrs. ELSPY BEAVER

JOSEPH F. HANNON

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32302619

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 Use 2107 Rote).

DATE: - 11-14-2017

PH 165-457

Administrative Data (Continued)

By communication dated 6/12/64 the Baltimore Office

advised that the following investigation was

conducted by SA

GLEN W. EILAND:

At Havre De Grace, Maryland

on 5/21/64 Mr. DAN CAMPBELL (Protect identity), Manager,

Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company, advised that telephone

number 275-3801 is an unlisted pay station at Dvorak Market,

Hacks Point, Maryland. He added that the telephone had been

in

service since 4/15/59 and that it is located in a grocery and

market. There was nothing additional concerning DVORAK.

At Elkton, Maryland

on 5/22/64 Deputy WILBUR BAKER, Sheriff's Office,

advised

that

DVORAK is unknown to him but he felt that Sheriff

STARTT would know him since he used to lived in the vicinity of

Hacks Point.

He added that Sheriff STARTT was out of town and

would

be back around 6/1/64.

On 6/9/64 Sheriff EDGAR U. STARTT advised that he has

known CHARLES DVORAK for about 20 years and he is a successful

grocer in the Hacks Point area. He stated that DVORAK has never

been known to him to gamble or be connected with gambling in any

way.

By communication dated 6/10/64 the New York Office

indices regarding

advised that there was no identirtable rate a in new York

i BIVONIA, aka

There was,

however, an individual named PETER JAMES COLAVECCHIO, who had

an alias of "Cowboy Pete.

He was the subject of Identification

Order 1477, FBI #248 236.

New York also advised that telephone number LE 9-6336

was

the number of NY 3612-C-TE.

By communication dated 6/17/64 the Newark Office ad-

vised Newark indices contained numerous references concerning

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32302619 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Y Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:411-14-2017

PH 165-457

Administrative Data (Continued)

"The Whip" but there was not sufficient information available

to determine if this individual is identical with the in-

dividual known as

"The Whip" as described on Cover Page E of

report of SA JOHN F. PHELAN, JR., dated 4/23/64 at Philadelphia.

Newark further advised that indices were negative

concerning EDWARD C. Or LOUISE MC NAIR.

Newark also advised that the information obtained

from the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company on 5/13/64 was

furnished to IC ANTHONY PALMISANO by NK 1741-CS.

PH 699-C, who has been familiar with bookmakers en-

gaged in horse racing and numbers betting in the Philadelphia

area for the past ten years, advised on 7/2/64 that he does

not believe there has been a wire service operation in Phila-

delphia for many years.

He stated that even if the "Greaser

Gang" under the direction of ANGELO BRUNO had one, it would be

known in gambling circles as this type information always gets

out to other bookmakers.

He stated that there may be certain

people working for BRUNO who are obtaining race results via

telephone from friends located in the vicinity of a track but

not from a wire service as such.

He knew of no one named

D'AMATO, LOU GORDON Or JIMMY GRADY.

The period in this report from 3/4/64 is due to

receipt of information from another office after the referenced

report had been submitted.

is assigned being involved in court trials, it has not been

possible to conduct an intensified investigation in this case.

In addition to trials,

gation in connection with the case entitled

"ANGELO BRUNO

AN eats matter

rights

matters and an election law special. Leads

in other offices have been closely followed.

D*

COVER - PAGE

DocId: 32302619

Page 4

---

## Page 5

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PA

PH 165-457

such operation.. There were calls made from two of the

telephone numbers obtained to a wire service in the Boston,

Mass., area; namely to "Sportsday Weekly", consequently,

it is a possibility that a wire service does exist.

The following is a summary of information furnished

to Philadelphia by the New York Office as obtained from

NY 3612-C-TE concerning this case:

In October 1963, there were three wire rooms

operating in Philadelphia, Pa.

They were being operated by

a FATTY (LNU), telephone H08-3944, JAKE D'AMATO, telephone

number BA8-6051, and an unknown individual using telephone

number GR3-71690

He learned that JAKE D'AMATO's true name

was JOSEPH D'AMATO, and he lived at 3222 North Carliste

Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

The wire rooms were reportedly

under the control of ANGELO BRUNO.

-The source mentioned that an individual named

JIMMY GRADY, a white male, is employed by

• BRUNO to do

his back strapping.

D'AMATO reportedly lived with a nurse

with a Philadelphia hoodlum named "THE WHIP" who was being

sought by the Government in some town in New Jersey.

"THE

WHIP" is supposed to have numerous safe deposit boxes.

There is a strong-arm man who works for BRUNO named PETE

BIONIA, aka "COWBOY PETE", who lives in Queens, New York

City, N. Y., who has a STillwell telephone exchange and

whose telephone number should appear on toll calls from

D'AMATO'S home.

The source advised further that one ANGELOXROSETTI

of Boston, Mass, supplies all New England Race Track in-

formation to the wire rooms in Philadelphia, Pa. He said

that ROSETTI was a former partner of FRANKIE FERRARO.

(ROSETTI and FERRARO were operators of "Sportsday Weekly"

in Boston, Mass.

- E

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32302619 Page 5

---

