# docid-32341034

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10427

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

163-16117-4, 5, 6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/21/1966

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 LHM, 4 MEMO

v9.1

NW 45714

DocId: 32341034

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10%

•42

SAC, Miami

Director, FBI

16%

16117-4

12/12/66

OTHER 4

TOP

• ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT

• PROGRAM

la lattan bean tadad Darte to Byspiu ated on/a

Et. AL,

ITSp" dated 11/25/66.

are requested to submit your recommendations regarding

the feasibility of including captioned individual in your

TECIP as a target for development.

1 - Mr. Schmidt - Division 6 - Room 5278°

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/14/95 BY 5g

MAILED 3

÷86 12 1966

COMM-FBI

Tolson

DeLöach .

Mohr

Wick

Caspeir -

Callahan

Conrad.

Felt …

Gale

Rosen

JEK: pmnpa

(5.)

Sullivan

Tavel

Trofter

DEC 1 9 1966L ROOM

Gandy.

TELETYPE UNIT l

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

5010-197-3

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Director, FBI (163-16117)

Neera

it, Paris (87-347). (RUC)

DATE: 11-25-66

EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO, ET AL

ITSP

Re Mtami letter 10-19-66. DECLASSIED 57 Spr

on titse

One copy of Miami LHM dated 10-19-66 was

It is noted that EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO

has been employed as the Miami representative of the

Interchange Bank of Chiasso, Switzerland, over a long

period of time. It was ascertained during contact with

him following his arrest in Paris, that he solicits

accounts of individuals in and around Miami for the

Interchange, Bank (U)

"Since we were of some assistance to

in connection with the investigation of the allegations

against him in Paris and in view of the Bureau's con-

siderable interest in Swiss banking operations, the Bureau

may wish to consider having Miami attempt to develop

Jas an. informant.

It is believed that

has beefcused by the Miami Office in the past,

and he may

be susceptible to development in this regard.

(U)

3/26/68

t

4 - Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section

1

- Miami, 163-323, for info.)

2 - Paris

(1 - PAR 62-180, Swiss Banking Operations)

NWP :HD

(6)

REC-42

CDS

regory

Топірі

Dato of D

101,

OTHER 4

Let

DIV

CEMENT MANET

HECELED

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payrall Savings Plan gSl-18

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 163-323

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original

and six copies of a Letterhead Memorandum, dated October 19,

1966, prepared at Miami pertaining to EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT

SANTIAGO. and SAMUEL FINK BENTON, copies of which are to

be forwarded to the Legats at Bern, Paris, and Rome. One

copy, together with a copy of the Letterhead Memorandum,

is designated for the New York Office for information.

The entr intomation in the to hi seece ening

a Potential Security Informant - Venezuela in connection with

his association with MARCOS PEREZ JIMENEZ.

None of the Special Agents in the Miami Office

currently handling ITSP matters have any information conceming

the activities of SAMUEL FINK BENTON which would relate in

any way to the information in the Letterhead Memorandum

prepared by the Legat in Paris.

There is no information in the possession of the

Special Agents of the Miami Office that EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT

SANTIAGO has been involved in the illegal transfer and

sale of securities.

As mentioned in the Miami teletype to the Bureau,

dated September 17, 1966, no warrants are known to be currently

outstanding against either SANTIAGO of BENTON.

It is not desired that SAMUEL FINK BENTON be

Included in the general appearance file of the Bureau at

this time. There is definitely no reason to include SANTIAGO

in such a file.

OTHER 4

2

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SAC

Miami

REC- 58

Director, FBI-

163-16117-4

22

EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO;

SAMUEL F. BENTON

ITSP

September 27, 1966

1 - Mr. Bunker

Relet from Legat, Paris 9/21/66 and LFM attached

thereto, one copy of each enclosed for each office.

The contents of Lill from Legat, Paris should be

made known to Agents handling ITSP Matters to determine if

such is of pertinence to any investigation being conducted

by this Bureau.

Samuel S. Benton is, of course, well-known to

both offices because of his involvement in other matters

respecting the illegal transfer and sale of securities.

The

only reference the Bureau finds to

is contained in

correspondence from the Miami and New York Offices under the

caption: '1

aka; PSI - Venezuela"

Hiami file 134-374,

New Yorks file 134-4414, and correspondence

the Miami Office under the caption

IS - Venezulea; RA - Venezuela," Miami file 105-6100. Miami

is requested to furnish Bureau with othe summary of pertinent

background of Santiago with respect to his possible

activities in the securities field.

Miami should also, if

not previously

done, consider recommending that both Santiago

and Benton be included in the General Appearance File (see

section Y R, Manual of Rules and Regulations.)

Enclosures (2)

2 - New York (Enclosures 2)

OTHER 4

Santo Dim

1X0rop4y07

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotler

Tele. Room

¡Holme:

MAILED 15

S6.P 2 7 1966

.COMM-FBI

A01: 81802

5+10

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSAFIED

DATE 1/14/95 5p8-0/2

роем

HELETYPE UNIT

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034

Page 5

---

## Page 6

1 то

FROM

SUBJE

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-107-5

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 9/21/66

LEGAT, PARIS (87-347) (RUCS//

EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT

SAMUEL F OBENTON

ITSP

SANTIAGO;

CONFIDENTIAL

Re Paris telephone call to Bureau 9/17/66.

Enclosed are seven copies of an LHM containing

information received from the Police Judiciaire (Criminal

Police), Sareté Nationale (PJSN), on 9/17/66.

copies

are being furnished to Legats, Bern and Rome.

Rome Mation

Since it was indicated by the French Police that

SANTIAGO was suspected of having been involved in a holdup

in New York City, immediate check was made with the Bureau

which in turn checked with New. York and Miami, to determine

if either of these individuals was wanted.

There were no

warrants outstanding for either subject.

OCT 24

5

Bureau (Encs: -

DECLASIFIED 87 3 04/p

(1 - Liaison Section) ~ 01_

(1 - Miami, Info.)O

(1 - New York,

Info

1 - Bern (Enc. - 1). (Into.

a(sent direct)

1-

Rome (Enc. - 1)

(Info

(sent direct)

1

- Paris

NWP: eim

(8)

EX-114

163-16117-4

Classific

6.851

REG. 58

186 t/

Exempt

CDS

Dato o:

10-4

8 SEP-26 1966

.....

UNBEC COPY

COPY OF BINCL

1487-86864

IDE

DOW IMBEFT DIA

VEC.D

32576 869

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savinos Plan ris

991-101911

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034

Page 6

---

## Page 7

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Washington, D. C.

September

21, 1966

CONFIDENTIAL

SANEL P. RATOROBERT SANTA 55/20/

SAMUEL F. BENTON

ON 1/12/95

Detective EDOUARD STEINER of the Police Judiciaire

(Criminal Police), Sareté Nationale (PJSN), advised on

September 17, 1966, that the French Police had been alerted

by the police of Milan, Italy, that EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT

SANTIAGO, who was en route from Milan to Paris by air, was

suspected of having been involved in a holdup in New York

City, New York. He was reported by the Milan Police to be

going to Paris to meet another American, whose identity was

unknown, at the George V Hotel and that the second American

may be in possession of a large number of stolen stock

certificates recently stolen in a New York holdup.

The French Police intercepted SANTIAGO at the time

of his arrival at Orly Airport, Paris, on the evening of

September 16,

1966.

His baggage, brief case and clothing

were thoroughly searched by the French Police and nothing

unusual was noted other than a rubber stamp which reads as

follows: "Signatures Guaranteed, Franklin National Bank,

Madison

Ave., New

York City, N. Y."

SANTIAGO admitted that this is the type of rubber

stamp used in the transfer of stock certificates but denied

that he had anything to do with such activities. He advised

the police that he had found this rubber stamp at Kennedy

International Airport, New York City, when he was boarding

the plane for Italy and that he had intended to return it by

mail to the Franklin National Bank but had neglected to do

5O.

In spite of questigning by the French Police, SANTIAGO

stuck to this story.

SANTIAGO denied that he intended to meet another

American at the George

V Hotel in Paris.

He stated that he

was visiting Paris for

to the United States:

the weekend en route from illan, Italy,

Classified bỹ

3317X

CONFIDENTIAL

Exempt Apra

Category

This document contains neither

Date of Doclaus.

cation indefin

recommendations nor conclusions of

It is the property of

i i eat in on on 603-16117-4

it and its contents are not to be

digtributed outside your agency.

ENCLOSURE

991-10151

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034

Page 7

---

## Page 8

• EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO;

SAMUEL. F. BENTON

SANTIAGO claims to be employed as the Miami Representa-

tive of the Inter Change Bank at Chiasso, Switzerland.

He had

in his possession two checkbooks from this bank and states

that he is in a position to accept signature cards from

prospective clients and immediately turn over checkbooks

when deposits are made.

SANTIAGO was held by the French Police during the

and was summoned to reappear at

19, 1966. His passport was held by

the French Police as assurance of his return.

The. rubber

stamp from the Franklin National Bank was seized by the French

Police and will

be turned over to. the Public Prosecutor of

Paris for disposition.

At the time SANTIAGO returned to the French Police

headquarters at 9:00 AM, September 19, 1966, and since it

had been determined that he was not wanted for arrest in the

United States, his passport was returned to him by the French

Police and he

was discharged from further appearance.

Investigation by the PJSN determined that on the

afternoon of September 17, 1966, one SAMUEL F. BENTON

attempted to contact SANTIAGO at the George V Hotel, Paris.

It was determined by the French Police that BENTON

was

residing at the Paris Hilton Hótel. He was contacted there

and was brought to French Police headquarters for questioning.

BENTON identified himself as a private detective

in Miami, Florida, and had as proof of this a private detective's

license and badge. He stated that he has no criminal record

and is well known to the Miami Police because of his occupation.

A thorough search of his baggage, brief case and clothing by

the French Police failed to disclose any evidence that BENTON

was involved at this time in the negotiation of stolen or

false securities.

BENTON stated that he knows SANTIAGO as an

acquaintance in Miami and that they had agreed to meet in

Paris, but stated that there was no significance to their

meeting.

He stated that they had merely decided to see Paris

together.

GONFIDENTIAL

- 2 -

163-16117-44

551-10151

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034 Page 8

---

## Page 9

EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO;

SAMUEL F. BENTON

The following are the descriptions of SANTIAGO

and BENTON, as obtained from the French Police:

Name:

EXPEDITO FELIX ROBERT SANTIAGO

Born:

February 9, 1929, at

New York City, New York.

Race:

Sex:

Height:

Weight:

Hair:

Eyes:

Residence:

Occupation:

White

Male

5? 6"

160 pounds

Brown, cut short.

Brown

14850 South Spur Drive,

Miami, Florida.

Miami

Representative;

Inter Change Bank,

Chiasso, Switzerland.

Name:

Born:

Race:

Sex:

Height:

Weight:

Eyes:

Hair:

Residence:

Occupation:

SAMUEL F.

BENTON

July 4, 1920, in Poland.

White

Male

6'

180 pounds

Brown (wears horn-rimmed

glasses) •

Brown

1800 South Treasure Drive,

Miami, Florida.

Private Detective

CONFIDENTIAL

-

3*

1635462617-58

NW 45714 DocId: 32341034 Page 9

---

