# docid-32341029

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10422

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2824-40, 41

Released under the

John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DRAIN, VINCENT E.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/10/1958

PAGES:

56

SUBJECTS :

JFC, DESCR, BKG, REL, RES, B/F INT, ASSOC, MEETING,

TEST, FGJ, CRIMINAL ACT, TELCAL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 45754

DocId: 32341029

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Repört Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Ofice

TITLE OF CASE

DALLAS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

DALLAS

Date

Taratigattya Period 11/7912/2,17519

6/10/58

23,26,30/57 1/2,6,10, 15-17;.

Report made by

21; 3/4; 1/1; 6/8,9/58

Typod Bys

VINCENT E. DRAIN

JH

CHARACTER OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, WaS.,

Joseph F. Civello, Joe

Ciuerello, Joseph Civello,

Joe Ciuello

ANTI-RACKETEERING.

Synopsis:

INVESTIGATIVE SUMMARY REPORT

/1..

F44.4413

CIVELLO, FBI 1222605, white, male, Italian extraction, born

2/3/02,

or: 2/3/03, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has seventh grade

education.

Married, wife's maiden name,

MARY TOMMINELLI MUSSO.

CIVELLO resides 5311, Denton Drive, Dallas, Texas:

CIVELLO

engaged in 011 leasing and has interest in Civello Import Food

and Liquor, Dallas,

Texas.

CIVELLO sentenced to Leavenworth

Penitentiary,

-4/2/37, given 15 years.

Paroled and discharged

by commutation of sentence 11/6/48.

CIVELLO known to have

associated with many known underworld characters.

CIVELLO

attended meeting at home of JOSEPH BARBARA, Apalachin, New York,

11/14/57, where several known underworld figures were in

attendance.

testifled before Grand Jury, Southern

District of

and at Special Tloga County

Grand Jury, Oswego,

2/4/58. CIVELLO has been known

to carry a

gun in his automobile and

suspected of carrying one

on his person.

CIVELLO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS:

JFK Law 10(a)2

-COPIES DESTROYER

Approved

MAY 22 1972

Copies nade!

pecial A

/Cha

edistrage

Bureau (92-2824)

8-9-63-

• Albany (Info)

1

- New work 192-840(1150)

• New Orleans (33-298) (Inio)

1

1

Oklahoma City (92-69) (Info)

- Los Angeles (Info)

3 = Dallas (92-36)

92-

Do not write in spaces below

40

12 JUN 16 1958

REC- 12

044/260

55 JUN 30 1958

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned

NW 45754 DooId: 32341029 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 92-36

The Pennsylvania State Police report reflected that

the cost of these rooms and all attending charges were

billed to BUFALLINO.

It. HARVEY W. TOTTEN, Dallas Police Department,

advised SA VINCENT E. DRAIN on February 9, 1958, that a

Sergeant REYNOLDS of the New York State Police and JOHN

McKEON of the Westchester County District Attorney!s Office,

contacted TOTTEN on February 9, 1958. They advised TOTTEN

they had surveilled JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO and his wife from

Texas and Pacific Railroad. These

individuals stated that CIVELLO contacted no one en route

from New York to Dallas.

Mr. CHARLES MOORE of the Intelligence Unit of the

Texas Department of Public Safety, advised on February 11,

1958, that they had learned through a reliable source that

CIVELLO had contacted his brother, CHARLES CIVELLO; by

telephone on February ll, 1958, and excitedly told his brother

that the Internal Revenue Agents had just left his office

and 1t looked like they were trying to make a case on him.

On February 10, 1958, SA WILLIAM GIBSON, of the

United States Internal Revenue

Division of Dallas, Texas,

advised SA VINCENT E. DRAIN that

JEK Law 11(a)..

Dallas Confidential Informant I-4 advised on

February 12, 1958, that CIVELLO, after his return from New

York, had contacted HARRY D. KAHN, an 01l broker in the

Adolphus lower, Dallas, Texas.

This Informant stated that

CIVELLO was supposed to have told KAHN that he thought the

Government could pin nothing on him with the exception of

probing into his. Income Tax®

He stated that the Internal

Revenue had contacted him relative to his Income Tax at which

time CIVELLO referred them to his attorney.

According to

this informant, CIVELLO was extremely upset and told KAHN

should the Internal Revenue come to him regarding any

come no

connection with business deals that CIVELLO might have had

with him, KAHN

should immediately contact CIVELLO and advise

the kind of questions that the Internal Revenue asked.

This Informant stated that CIVELLO was complaining bitterly

REVIEWED BY EVIAN TASK FORCE

ON

7. 1-98 das

REL BAGE IN FOLL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEMAL

HIH

45754 DocId: 32341029

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Repórt Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

Reporting Office

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

DALLAS

Dato

6/10/58

Report made by.

Investigative Period 1/49312/2,27919s

23,26,30/57 1/2,6,10,15-17,

21; 3/4; 4/1; 6/8,9/58

Typed Bys

VINCENT E. DRAIN

JH

CHARACTER OF CASE

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, was s

Joseph F. Civello, Joe

Ciuerello, Joseph Civello,

Joe Cluello

Synopsis:

Approved

Copies made:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

INVESTIGATIVE SUMMARY REPORT

CIVELLO, FBI #1222605, white, male, Italian extraction, born

or 2/3/03, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, has seventh grade

education.

Married, wife's maiden name,

MARY TOMMINELLI MUSSO.

CIVELLO resides 5311 Denton Drive, Dallas, Texas.

CIVELLO

engaged in o11 leasing and has interest in Civello Import Food

and Liquor, Dallas,

Texas. CIVELLO sentenced to Leavenworth

Penitentiary, 4/2/37, given 15 years. Paroled and discharged

by commutation of sentence 11/6/48.

CIVELLO known to haver

associated with many known underworld characters.

attended meeting at home of JOSEPH BARBARA, Apalachin, New York,

11/14/57, where several known underworld figures were in

attendance.

testified before Grand Jury, Southern

District of

and at Special Tloga County:

Grand Jury, Oswego, New York, 2/4/58. CIVELLO has been known

to carry a

gun in his automobile and suspected of carrying one

on his person. CIVELLO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

•P-JEK Law 11(a)

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

Bureau (92-2024)

• Albany (Info

- New York (92-840) (Info)

New Orleans (33-298) (Info)

Oklahoma City (92-69)(Info)

• Los Angeles (Info)

3

• Dallas (92-36)

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are lo be distributed outside the agency to which loaned

NW 45754 DooId: 32341029 Page 4

---

## Page 5

=0.03ar

DI 92-36

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 1s WILLIAM CRAIG, Vice President and Cashier,

Exchange Bank and Trust Company, Dallas, Texas.

T-2 15 CHARLES MOORE, a member of the Intelligence

Unit of the Department of Public Safety, Dallas, Texas.

T-3 18 HODGES DUBOIS HAMILTON, PCI.

JEK Act 6 (4)

T=4 1s

T-5 1s

PCI.

= 54 =

92-2824-40

774 45754

DooId:32341029 Page 5

---

