# docid-32298412

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10188

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-4133-122

: Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/05/1965

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MRR, MESA, ABEL THOMAS, REGIONAL MEETING,

CHICAGO, IL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32298412 Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'T. Kehnedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (91 USe-21

D7: Hotel:

DATE: 11-17-2017

FD 90 (Re": 12-13-56)

18191

sprmac/rom 1/27/51

FBI

SEN

crA let 4/25/80046. presente

Date:

1/5/65

Classifer Av

132251

Deciassify

CAD

Transmit the followingCiA HAS NO OBJECTION

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

pè in plain text or codevies!

REASON-

Via

A IRTEL RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT: K 2-30-97

Priority or Method of Mailin

DECLASSIFIED BY 56E& StD/151

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4133) ON 8-19-97 (JEK)

FROM:

SAC, MINNIAPOLIS (2-26) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

_copies made

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONA RIO (MRR)

IS - CUBA

for review at FBIHQ bY,

00:

MIAMI

USCA 3.14.78

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine (9); Chicago

two (2), Miami two (2), copies of letterhead memorandum

captioned as above and

suitable for dissemination.

The source of information mentioned in instant

letterhead memorandum is MARGARET LANCTOT, 3308 Portland

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEBEIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT,

OWN OTHERWISE

WHERE SHI

Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota, Cuban source of information, /

which intormation was furnished. to SA RAYMOND H. WILLIAMS ken)

Two copies of this communication and letterhead

memorandun are furnished Chicago for information.

It should

be noted by Chicago that Miami on February 6, 1964, advised

that the Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)[is

Of operational interest to CIA and because of this the

organization is not actively investigated but does report

information from established sources and informants

IS (U)

Any further information which is received

relative

to the Chicago regional meeting of the MRR

will

be promptly furnished the Bureau and

interested offices.

- Bureau (Encl. 9) (RM)

- Chicago (Encl. 2) (Info.) (RM)

- Miami (Encl.

2) (97-327) (RM)

- Minneapolis

(1 - 105-1419)

97-4/33 - 122 M

9, ENCLOSURE

Wick

Approved:

Date 1- 2-65 bY NHNSti

sen SECXET

_ Mi

Per

(и)

pecial Agent in Charg

DocId: 32298412 Page 2

---

