# docid-32300433

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10271-10122

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109717-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRANIGAN, W. A.

TO: SULLIVAN, W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 11/12/1964

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

DILLON COMMISSION, WC, LIAISON WITH USSS,

PRESIDENTIAL PROTECTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/25/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300433

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Regords Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1902 ED:TON

G- A GEN.

REG. NO.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

1

1

- Belmont

DeLoach

• Sullivan

-

Baumgardn

-

Bland

RWSmith

Wannall

TO

W. C. Sullivan

ICA CONTAINEDATE:

SO 2X933 S

11-12-64

FROM

W.A.

Br

istan

WICED S68

1

1

1

1

- Liaison

1

-

Branigan

Whitson

Cdliahan

Conrad

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sulliv

Tay

TrEA

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT:

PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE

ON THE WARREN REPORT

(10/21/07

ON: 25X

Memo trom A, H. Belmont to

(EFK)

Mr

Tolson 11-5-64 pointed out

that neutralization of persons who constitute a danger to the

President is a Secret Service function

However, there may be some

few sensitive cases where action by the Secret Service would destroy

an FBI operation of value to this country.

The question was raised

as to whether in these few instances the FBI would prefer-to hándle

the subjects itself, rather than to have Secret Service neutralize

them during a Presidential visit.

The Director noted, "I am opposed

to accepting this responsibility."

:i."

The I6yuspionage Agents:

For the Director's consideration it is

pointed out that of approximately 18,500 names given by the FBI to

Secret Service, the "sensitive cases" to which Secret Service referre

in-place Six are agents of the Soviet Committee for State Securav!

(KGB), identified through FEDORA, a Soviet defector-in-place.

Four

are agents of Soviet Military Intelligence (GRU), identified through

TOPHAT,

another Soviet defector-in-place.

One is a Castro-Cuban

intelligence agent who represens an important penetration of Cubat

clandestine communications.** (ul

.. •

In no instance have the original sources indicated that

jany of these espionage agents has ever had an assignment of

assassination or

terroristic activity. These people are collector

and

transmitters of information.

These cases are of varying importance from an intelligence

standpoint, but in all of them we have an obligation to protect the

original sources.

These original sources may be in a position at

some future date to furnish us with the identities of cömmunist

terrorists or assassins who

would be of immediate interest to the

Secret Service.

C-

67.101717-16

LW : mhw

(11)

CONTINUED - OVER

a 1955751

XẾ. 0X 31

1964

18% DaG

545292012141

I LEONEL

17 9 FEB 2 - 1965

84 DECO

1964

DocId: 32300433 Page 2

DEC

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horsy-

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memo Branigan to Sullivan

re:

PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE

ON THE WARREN REPORT

We cannot adequately protect our sources when these 16

names are out of our possession,

Dangers in Handling by Secret Service and Local Police:

Consideration should be given to getting these 16 names

back from Secret Seryice.

These cases are all pending active

investigations of intelligence (espionage) agents.

Should a leak

occur in the Secret Service, the lives of our defectors-in-place

would be in jeopardy.

for example, take the case of Josef. Ulver, a Czech illegall»

agent, operating as a traveling salesman of religious articles. HeLs

was identified to us by our defector-in-place, GIMME, who is now inV5

(sturnished additional Information, throue and who has fust recentles

in the U.S. If Ulver's name leaked out, GIMME would be under't

/ Another example is Alexis von Volborth, a Soviet KGB Le

illegal

whose very existence is known to only a limited number of

persons in the New York KGB Residency, includingkour defector-in-

place, FEDORA, who reported him to us.

If his name leaked, FEDORA

would be in a precarious position. "The head of the KGB in New Yorkb

is already of the belief,

from review of testimony in the Butenko- Sx

Ivanov trial, that the FBI has an informant within the KGB &UFEDORA

furnished us with information on five other persons in this list of

16.

If their names were leaked, FEDORA could be easily identified

by

the KGB as our source.

The same situation would prevail if the Secret Service

gave the names to the local police and the names were leaked by the

police.

The effect would be the same if the local police attempted

to restrain these persons and the latter reported this to their

then person and to date

In the case of local police action looking

informants' lives in jeopardy, but we would have surrendered control

of the investigation of these

sensitive espionage cases to the

local police.

Re-evaluation of the 16 Cases: On 10-29-64, the Director met with

the President's Committee on Presidential Protection. The Director

pointed out that we disseminate to the Secret Service on subversive

individuals, even where there is no indication the individual has

threatened the President; that these are the type of people we would

pick up in the event of a war emergency.

- 2-

DocId: 32300433 Page 3

---

