# docid-32305230

## Page 1

Released under the oohn f. kennedy Assas51nat10n Records colection Act of 1992 199 05c 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10287-10360

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2054

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/11/1967

2

LCN, ASSOC, CONSTRUCT, CLUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

. v9.1

DocId: 32305230 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter

DATE :

11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev, 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

7/11/67

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

SUBJECT: LA COSA NOSTRA

AR

(92-6054)

(92-365)

NO 1435-C-TE advised on 7/5/67 that he had a

lengthy discussion with CARLOS MARCELLO relative to the

construction of an Italian - American Club.

MARCELLO advised

informant that numerous out-of-State visitors that he has had

in the past have often mentioned to him there should be an

exclusive Italian club in the New Orleans area where they

could hold meetings. MARCELLO indicated that many of his

close associates in the New Orleans area think this is an

excellent idea.

Accordingly, CARLOS MARCELLO proposed that the

informant build and manage such a club.

MARCELLO offered to

finance this deal, however, informant is very reluctant to

accept the money from MARCELLO as he never would get any of

the profits.

Informant believes he can obtain the money from

the Small Business Administration as he understands

from

his attorney that the Small Business Administration is

"pushing money".

Informant pointed out he has a very poor credit

rating and that

this fact will probably negate his attempted

loan.

ST-104

Bureau

(RM)

I<C

92-6054-2054

New Orleans

PJC: sam

(5)

A JUL 211987

Approved:

DO JUL 14 1967

Sent

_M Per.

gent in Charge

DocId: 32305230

Page 2

---

