# docid-32321506

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05C 2101 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10377-10164

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3210

Document Information

ORIGINÁTOR: CITIZEN

FROM:

MCMULLIN, DAVID

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/23/1994

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321506

Page 1

215

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 05C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

375

David McMullin

14 Crooms Hill

London SE 10

August 23, 1994

Mr Ernie Porter

F.B.I.

10th Street & Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.

Washington D.C. 10535

fax 202 324 4908

Dear Mr Porter

I am writing a book about the cultures and backgrounds of people who

appear in the Warren Report. I have several questions which relate to matters

which are not in the Warren Report nor in any other official document concerned

with the Kennedy Assassination. I enclose two sets of question. The first is a

simple one and I hope that you can comment upon it.

There is, in the Warren Report, a disagreement between F.B.I. Special

Agent Vincent Drain and Dallas Police Lt. Carl Day. On the afternoon of the

assassination, the Dallas Police discovered a Mannlicher-Carcano rifle, later

identified as the murder weapon. Day and Capt Will Fritz of Dallas P.D.

handled the weapon. Fritz operated the bolt with his bare hand and there is a

television shot of the rifle being carried overhead, by the stock, by a person

(presumably a Dallas Police Officer) holding it with his bare hand.

The weapon

had been, according to Day's testimony, checked visually, with a magnifying

glass, by. Day before it was carried to Day's office at headquarters, but Day had

not dusted the weapon for prints.

Day testified that he found no prints on the weapon until he took it apart

and then he found a palm print. He turned the weapon over to F.B.I. Special

Agent Vincent Drain on the evening of November 22nd, 1963, and Drain took it

to Washington. The F.B.I. examined the weapon in Washington and found no

prints on it. This is all in the Warren Report.

Day testified before the Warren Commission that when he turned the

weapon over to Drain, he told Drain that there was a palm print. Drain testified

that Day did not mention a palm print nor any other print. Who is telling the

truth?

ackletto

David m mullen

LatH@ H@1029205-3210

12/22/444

dated

DocId: 32321506 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (as use saur mater.

DATE:

11-14-2017

There must have been a clip but in all the testimony, no one mentions finding

one, seeing one, or examining one.

5. Posner calls his book "Case Closed". Has the Kennedy case indeed been

closed, or is it an open investigation?

I should appreciate comments on these matters.

I believe that the public

has a right to know. These answers cannot be found in the Warren Report nor in

the HSCA report on assassinations. I believe it to be important to solve the

crime. I do not plan to point fingers at this error or that. The gross error lay in

permitting the slaying of Oswald, and this was not an F.B.I. matter. It is

important to understand the investigation in order to understand the crime.

Reputations are at stake. If Drain did his job properly, then let the public record

so indicate.

Thank you for your time and trouble in answering this letter. I will send

you my book when it is finished.

Yours sincerely,

Dand mout

David McMullin

P.S. I have vented a plas

In the serenes.

Telephone # 0818580487

tAX Me d/o

Rupart Mckenzie-H: 41

07/439 238%

PSS My Social Security It

0438432432

I have no criminal record, then for

DocId: 32321506 Page 3

---

