# docid-32338985

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

Released under the John

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90143-10403

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-370750-NR

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

•PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/08/1949

1

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, DATE LOWER LEFT CORNER

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338985

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NW 54460 DocId: 32338985

V

18.

JOHN HOHARD LE

9354 Burzet Avenus, san foraando

Elipira 2-1648

SyÄbo1 AJ01

latest authorization

14(08t 50-108481205200

9/30/47

22/20/148

This technical surteillance bas beed

install

Mittently since 19hm

soved inter

Lawson in considered a top functionary of the Commnist Party 1n

Los Angeles und his actitities as leader of the cultural Commnist Party group

have long been & subject of investigation. for many years, other Coununists

angagod in the motion ploturo and alliod industries havo taken their problems t

Lawson for solution and this survelllanos has proved invaluable in this regard.

Hannah Dorner of the Mational Arto,

, Sciences and Professions Council,

discussing tha "B111 of Rights Conference" to be hold in lew Tork Clty 1n

July, 1949, askod whather anyone in Los Angeles could "get next to Charlo

ChapLin to attempt to insuro his prosenco at this Congress." Lawson statod

that he rould attend to this.

During the same south Herbert Siberian reported to LANsOn frOM New

Jork City that Paul Robeson tas organising a "Conuittee of non-partisans to

defend the rights al Coumnist Londera.": Lamson sade bia name available es

a sponsor of thie organisation.

On July 20, 1949, 1t was learnod that Robert I. Kenny, former

california Attorney Ornaral and nor candidato for the California State

Senate, opposing Jack B. Tennoy, Chairman of the Californla Senate Committee

on in American Activities, was holding a meeting to sap his campaign. Kenny's

candiday was the subject of discussion between leorge Pepper of the Hollykood

Arts, Sciences and Professiona Council and lawson, and according to Peppet,

Kenny sished to nest with thes to map his campaign and lt was indicated that

Kenny wanted and needed their advies. Lawson suggested that Commnist Party

Attorney Ben Margolla also be present at this meting. It was further learnad

that Allen Hotcall was being considered as fanny's campaign manager.

end Sciont1fie Conference for Horld Peace, " as mall as a statement, also

drawn up by Biberuan, condeming 'the Californis Un-ABOTiCAn Activties

Comnittee and the FBlo

As the subjoct 1s the top figure in the Commmist Motion Picture

Broup tiis

install ian has been of unquestioned value having provided

In'ortait inforation which could be obtained in no other way. It 16

securmended that it be continued.

ATAL INRORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAD EXCEPT

978.49

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

+00370750101

Classified by

5418-52

Declassity-om: OADRI

NOT RHOORDED

55 SEP 28.1949

62 SEt:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Page 2

NR -152

пролік

CONFIDENTIAE

Treat

AS

ORIGINAL

---

