# docid-32341572

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10015-10220

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

.: 201-289248

0501:05

Released under the John

7. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

b6-06-2017

May 31, 1996

Status of Document:

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 4

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 3

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The postponed information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is

John Scelso.

Release Date: 05/2001 The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three

months after the decease of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Crypt

Release Date: 03/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

NH 53199 DocId: 32341572 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The postponed information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is

John Scelso.

Release Date: 05/2001 The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three

months after the decease of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Board Review Completed: 05/14/96

HH 53199

DocId: 32341572

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date:

Page:

04/16/96

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10015-10220

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

DIRECTOR, CIA

CANBERRA,

MELBOURNE

TITLE

CABLE - ANONYMOUS CALLER LOOKS LIKE A CRANK BUT PES CONTINUE FOLLOW UP.

DATE

11/29/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : POLISH DRIVER

ANONYMOUS CALL

CRANK CALL-

INVESTIGATION

INTERROGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A,

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:12/08/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS OSW1: V5 1993.12.08.18:01:27:750028:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341572 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

C/WE 3

D INDEX

5613

I NO INDEX

29 NOVEMBAR 1963 O FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO :

CANBERRA, MELBOURNE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF :

C/WH: 4

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, C/CI. 2, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SE CREN

12-62

ROUTING

4

29 Nov 63

16 172

DEFERE CEN

ROUTINE

TO

PRIORITY ONER, MELB

INFO

CITE DIR

85690

RYBAK GFFLOOR

(1N58639)

RET MELA 2511, CIVER 0591(4 68830) **

AGREE ANTONIOUS CALLER LOOKS LIKE A CRANK BUT PIS CONTINUE FOLLOW UP. IF HICALIS

AGAIN, DO EVERYTHING IO IDENTIFY HIM. SLUG ALI TRAFFICONLY AS ABOVE.

END OF MESSAGE

Document Number

224-89A

for FOIA Review on APR 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW.

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 1976

_ IMPDET CL BY 0/2208

C/S Comment:#SQUARE /1(1) has no record of a Polish driver connected

with Russian diplomatic establishment in Australia.

** Verbatim text of an anonymous call.

Mh s

authority of

RICHARD HIM MS

DDP

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

SECRET

downgrading and

declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER

Copy. No:

NW 53199 DooId: 32341572 Page 4

---

