# docid-32292247

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-339

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/18/1961

1

GAL, B/F INT, J AND J PICNIC GROVE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292247

Page 1

354

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: I1-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

Teletype

Tolson.

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad.

DeLoach

Evans _

Malone -

Rosen _

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

DEFERRED

TO DIRÉCTOR

10-18-61

10:26 PM SM

22453

GUS 'ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY., CG 6443-0 ADVISED HE HAD

LEARNED FROM LESLIE KRUSE, ASSOCIATE OF GUS ALEX THAT THE "OUTFIT"

DOES NOT PLAN TO REOPEN THE GAMBLING CASINO AT THE J. AND. J.

PIONIC GROVE IN WILL COUNTY, ILLINOIS, WHICH WAS CLOSED RECENTLY

BECAUSE OF PUBLICITY AFFORDED THE OPERATION BY SANDY SMITH CRIME

REPORTER FOR THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE. SOURCE SAID THE "OUTFIT" FELT

THAT IF THEY REOPENED THE J. AND J. PICNIC GROVE THE GOVERNMENT

WOULD:RAID THE PLACE AND THE INCIDENCES INVOLVED WOULD NOT BE

WORTH THE RISK. ACCORDING TO INFORMANT KRUSE EXPRESSED SURPRISE

THAT THE J. AND J. WAS NOT RAIDED FOLLOWING THE ABOVE PUBLICITY.

AND STATED SANDY SMITH WOULD BE IN THE LAKE IF HE WERE NOT WITH.

THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE NEWSPAPER.

IT IS NOTED SOURCES HAVE PREVIOUSLY

ADVISED THAT ALEX HAD AN INTEREST IN THE GAMBLING OPERATIONS AT

THE J. AND J. PICNIC GROVE. ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH.,

Pran

SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

11:35 PM

LAM

REC. 98

EX. - 10%

92-3182-339

10 1 8 9- t

HE OCT A16

parce aslideore con ainte the above message is to be disems

che above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabla

DocId: 32292247 Page 2

---

