# docid-32306766

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10290-10406

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2312

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, BU

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/19/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, LEADERSHIP, ASSOC AND REL; SUR,

GAMBLING ACT, BU PDT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32306766

Page 1

34

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

* COMMUNICATION SECTION

_APR 1 9 1968

FBI WASH DC

TELETYPE

lote) .

FBI-BUFFALO

4:59PM URG

4/19/68 AMM 3P

TO DIRECTOR (92-6054)

FROM BUFFALO (92-337)

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan,

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale.

Mx. Rosed

Mr.

Sulfian

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

LA COSA NOSTRA - BUFFALO DIVISION. AR.

Entery

BU FOUR ZERO NINE - C - TE, ONE OF BUFFALO'S LON MEMBER

INFORMANTS, ADVISED TODAY THAT DURING PASI SEVERAL WEEKS THERE

HAS BEEN MUCH DISSENSION WITHIN "MAGADDINO FAMILY" OVER WHETHER

OR NOT UNDERBOSS FRED G. RANDACCIO SHOULD BE REPLACED, SINCE

HE IS CURRENTLY INCARCERATED IN FEDERAL PEN. INFORMANI STATED

THAT MANY MEMBERS FELT RANDACCIO SHOULD BE REPLACED BECAUSE

OPERATING ARM OF FAMILY VERY DISORGANIZED WITHOUT LEADER. OTHER

MEMBERS, INCLUDING CAPOREGIMA ROY CARLISI AND BENEDETTO P.

SPANO, HAVE REMAINED LOYAL TO RANDACCIO. IN EFFORI IO UNITE

FAMILY, POSITION OF UNDERBOSS OFFERED, TO ROY CARLISI, BUT

CARLISI REFUSED. LATE LAST NIGHI INFORMANT LEARNED FROM

BENEDETTO P. SPANO THAI BOTH RANDACCIO AND CAPOREGIMA PASQUALE

A. NATARELLI WERE BEING "DUMPED" BY STEVE MAGADDINO, AND THAT

MAGADDINO IN TURN WOULD NAME JOSEPH FINO AS UNDERBOSS AND FRANK

PERIO AS MATARL RAME 9 SORRY RELE

END PAGE ONE

REC- 14

• APR & 9 1968

• APR 23 1968. -

DocId: 32306766 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 140 Use 2107 Hote).

• DATE? 11-14-2017

==

PAGE TWO

SAID THAT BOTH FINO AND PERNA HAVE ALREADY ASSUMED THESE

POSITIONS, BUT THAT IHEY WILL BE FORMALLY ACCEPTED AT SOME

FUTURE SOCIAL FUNCTION WITHIN "MAGADDINO FAMILY."

THE INFORMANT SPECULAIED THAT THE WEDDING OF JAMES V. LA DUCA'S

DAUGHTER TO SAN RANGATORE'S SON WILL IN ALL PROBABILITY BE

UTILIZED FOR THIS PURPOSE. IT IS NOTED THAT ALL PROMINENT

MEMBERS OF "MAGADDINO FAMILY" AS WELL AS ANGELO BRUNO FROM

PHILADELPHIA HAVE BEEN INVITED IO WEDDING, WHICH IS TO TAKE

PLACE ON APRIL TWENTYSEVEN NEXT•

THE ABOVE IS BEING CLOSELY FOLLOWED BY BU FOUR ZERO NINE -

C- TE, AS WELL AS ALL OTHER INFORMANTS AND SOURCES.

OF FURTHER INTEREST TO BUREAU, ACTING ON INFORMATION

FURNISHED BY BU THREE FIVE ONE - C - TE, SURVEILLANCES HAVE

BEEN CONDUCTED BY BUREAU AGENTS OF LOCAL CASINO-TYPE DICE GAME

OPERATED BY CAPOREGIMA ROY CARLISI. AS A RESULT OF THESE

SURVEILLANCES LOCAL SEARCH WARRANT OBTAINED TODAY BY LI.

KEVIN R. CONNORS (NA), BUFFALO PD, FOR RESIDENTS AT ONE ZERO

IWO LAKEVIEW AVE., BUFFALO, WHERE GAME IS OPERATED. IT IS

* END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32306766 Page 3

---

