# docid-32293438

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10211-10214

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-1ST NR 940

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/18/1963

4

LST, ASSOC, BUSS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF:LAST-REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293438

72

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev, 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via - AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 12/18/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, TAMPA (92-new) (RUC)

EUGENIO LEAL POGO, aka

Eugenio Leal

AR

(00; Miami)

ReTPlet to Director, 11/15/63 in case entitled "SANTO

AR" Buffle 92-2781, with copy to MIami

and Tie yE; Juan airtel to Tampa, 12/5/63 in case entitled

"SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka. AR" with copy to Miami.

For the information of the Bureau, referenced Tampa airtel

set out that San Juan should resolve the matter that a confiden-

tial source at San Juan reported that SANTO TRAFFICANTE and dAMES

RIDDLE HOFFA owned the Hotel Ponce de Leon in Santurci, Puerto

Rico; and referenced San Juan airtel to Tampa (IO) noted that

EUGENIO LEAL, according to several San Juan PCIs,

had been

formerly operator of an exclusive restaurant in Havana, Cuba

and who was identified as a big time gambler and who had gam-

bling connections with SANTO TRAFFICANTE at Havana, Cuba, had

been in the Condado Beach Hotel, San Juan on 10/4/63, departing

10/18/63, furnishing address of 7871 S. W. 16th Street, Miami,

Florida,

and again registered 10/31/63 - 11/30/63, same hotel,

giving address of 3590 S. W. 40th St., Miami,

, Fla.

LEAL was

also reported as being in business with EUGENIO GURRA, des-

cribed as a well-known sports promoter in the San Juan area.

- Bureau

V - (92-2781)

3 - Miami

TORY

1 - (92-88)

3

3

San

• Juan (92-52)

CIS

- Tampa

I - (92-1)

192-278

NOT RECORDED

:. DEC 23 10:3

SJL: nb

(13)

ORIGINAT.

Sent

M

Special Agent in Charge

Per

DocId: 32293438 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: -11-14-2017

TP 92-new

San Juan requested Miami and Tampa review files and

advise if there were any present connections, legal or illegal,

between LEAL and SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

In view of the above, a review of the Tampa file was

made and the following is set forth, noting Miami is

being

considered Office of Origin, and it appears San Juan should

conduct investigation to determine LEAL's activities in San

Juan,

establishing whether he is operating legally or illegally

for himself or

fronting for someone else.

TP 8-C, who has furnished reliable information in the

past and who is presently furnishing his services to the Las

Vegas Division, advised on October 19, 1961 that through sources

familiar with Cuban activities in

Miami, OTTO SIRGO, a Cuban

actor described as a

"drug addict" and who was involved in

narcotics traffic in Cuba, as well as RENE CABELL, a Cuban singer,

were in the Miami area at such time and that their names were

linked with EUGENIO LEAL, who was described as formerly operat-

ing the Montmarte Night Club and Casino in Havana, Cuba. Source

said that if these two individuals were in Miami, LEAL in all

probability was too.

MM 492-S advised at Miami, Florida on 1/25/62 that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. was in contact with EUGENIO LEAL, a

LEAL, according to source was a

close friend and associate of SANTO TRAFFICANTE in Cuba and

also the source was close to LEAL.

HERBERT WALL, Miami attorney (protect identity) on

recontact May 16, 1963 in Miami, Fla., confidentially advised

the identity of his clients who had leased the "Orange Sun"

a cruise ship then running from Miami to Bimind for gambling

purposes, were AVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL and EUGENIO LEAL.

EUGENIO LEAL POGO was interviewed in the Spanish

language inasmuch as he does

not speak English, on June 7, 1963

2

DocId: 32293438 Page 3

---

