# docid-32286786

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-1014

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

06/04/1963

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

GLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32286786

Page 1

58

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act,-of 1992 (14 USC Z1UY Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Jube: 10, 1063

Airtel

TO: SAC, Chicago (92-349)

Fron:

Director s

REC 7402-31713-10144

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, At

Be Chicago airtel 6/4/63. (UL)

In the event efforts to arrange with Lowell Willlanson

to meet with Agents of the New York or Chicago Offices are

successful, careful attention must be given to assure that

Wall hansou

will be afforded complete security in any such

meetings.

1 = New York

1 - Kansas City

NOTE: Lowell Williamson, the husband of Dorothy McGuire of the

singing sister trio, is

in a position to furnish the Bureau

information as to travel and other activities of Sam Giancana,

Chicago underworld leader who is romantically involved with

Phyllis McGuire of the singing team. (U)

Williamson is willing to furnish information to the Bureau

but has indicated some concern as to the risk involved in view

of Giancana's hoodlum background. Williamson resides in Calgary,

Canada, and KC is attempting to arrange through his attorney for

Agents of either the NY or CGO to meet with Williamson in one

of those two cities for the purpose of receiving information

concerning Giancana.

(U)

"(6)

it: 255 009

JUN & O 1963

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

SAW I JUN 14 1963

Tavel-

Trotter _

Tele. Room.

Holmes

Gandy -

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ALL 120

ANED

DA: 4/23184

SPORT Bang

DocId: 32286786 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE IRAY -R4324017

* FBI

Date:

6/4/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM : SAC, CHICAGO

(92-349)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, Aka

AR

(00: CHICAGO)

Ro Kansas City artel to the Bureau dated 6/3/69. (W)

The Chicago Division feels that in view of the close

association GIANCANA maintains with PHYLLIS MC GUIRE and

therefore the knowledge that the MC GUIRE Sisters and their

associates have of GIANCANA's current activities, it is "

extremely desirous that an up-to-date contact be, maintained

with LOWELL WILLIAMSON.

It is pointed out that at this time,

WILLIAMSON is in a position to furnish the most*

up-to-date

coverage of GIANCANA regarding GIANCANA's activities while

out of the Chicago Division.

In this regard, it is felt that

in order to serve the best interests of the Bureau and to

maintain up-to-date coverage of GIANCANA,

the kansas City Office

should endeavor to convince ROBERT MARTIN that WILLIAMSON should

be convinced of the necessity of meeting with agents in either

New York or Chicago.

It should be stressed to MARTIN

complete security would be assured WILLIAMSON in any meetings

made in either of these cities.

PUTAINED

Bureau

2 - Kansas City (92-138)

1

-

New York

(92-793) (Info)

2

- Chicago

MER: SJB

8 38 761:683

REC- 7292-3171-1014

47777

12

JUN

UN TEN ARE 241E

121 66 083

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

DocId: 32286786 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COlletion Act Of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-11-2017

CG 92-349

• In the event MARTIN is unable to convince WILLIAMSON

of the necessity of meeting with agents in Chicago or New

York, MARTIN should determine from WILLIAMSON the city frequented

the most by WILLIAMSON during his travels and arrangements

can be made through the division covering said city to

arrange an appropriate meeting with WILLIAMSON at such times

as WILLIAMSON visits the city in question. (U)

It is further pointed out that the Kansas City

Parate ol

Division should stress to MARTIN the need for WILLIAMSON to

furnish information concerning GIANCANA's activities.

immediately upon his learning of same so that proper

coverage

can be afforded these activities.

The Kansas City Division

is requested to advise MARTIN that should WILLIAMSON desire

to make contact with the Chicago Division, he should attempt

to contact SA MARSHALL E. RUTLAND to whom the GIANCANA case

is assigned. (U)

Should WILLIAMSON continue to be adverse to meeting

with agents in either Chicago or New York and a third city

be selected by WILLIAMSON, the Chicago Division suggests that

the Bureau allow either Chicago or New York Agents to make

contact with WILLIAMSON at the designated city, the contacting

or Chicago.

It is felt that the most desirable situation

would be for Chicago Agents knowledgeable with GIANCANA'S

activities, associates,

and movements, if at all possible,

be allowed

to make these contacts. ARMED y DANGEROUS.

- 2---

DocId: 32286786 Page 4

---

