# docid-32335623

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

Released under the John F.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90129-10014

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-14

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

09/06/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

MR 53074 DocId: 32335623

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, VBI (88-107361)

9/8/62

SAC, DALLAS (205-1280 FIBENTIAL

"MINUTENEN"

ABS TNEORHACION CONO

INFORMATION CONCERNING

APRETN IS WASTACSIFIED.

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

JICEFT INDES SHOWN

OO - KANSAS CITY

OSERWISEO:

On 8/23/02,

forner Dl-18-s, who had furnished reliable

information in the past, was being intervieved in connection ith

an applicant-type investigation by SA JAHES P. HOSTY, JB., at

which time he volunteered the information that he had been in

contact with the National Indignation Convention (NIC), which

has been identified as being affiliated with the John

Birch

Society. &

This former informant advised that he gas able to

determine that RUBERT DePUGH of Nissouri was in contact with

the NIC. on several occasions attempting to solicit the aid of

that organization and to recrult nonbors of the NIC to his

group.

This former Informant indicated that the leadership

of the NIC did not want to have anything to do with DePUGH

and refused to cooperate with him; however, some individuals,

whose names this former informant did not care to divulge at

this time, did indionte & desire to form an organization

ta indonto a destro

sinilar to the "MINUTEMEN".

DepIch indicated that there were

individuals sympathetic to the "SINUTENN" In the Houston area. SW

According to this forner informant, most of these

Individuals are either menders of tho John Blrch socloty or

former members of the John Birch society "ho have become

disgusted with merely writing letters and similar type

activities,

and they feel this nation 1s in Imninent danger

of invasion by the soviet Unlon, and they wish to be prepared

to resist such an lavasion.

They also fear that traitors

within the United States will attenpt to surrendor this country

to communisn by turning this country over to the united Nations

which in turn would give this country over to the communists,

and thoy intend to resist this. Kull

8 - Bureau (RA) 6? 5865

2 - Houston (RA) & 76.856

2 - Kansas City (62-7797) (84 667843

• San Antonio (R) 675854

Dedethalis

95 626₴

(10)

Indes

File.

DELE

Search can

edibr

Ch

Dactas

HH

53074

DocId: 32335623

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DIRECTOR, FBX (62-107861)

9/6/88

CO

SAC, DALLAS (105-1280) (2)

"HINUTBISN"

INFORMATION CONCERNING

('INTERNAL SECURITY)

0O - KANSAS CITY

AT MUTAMIT

HEREN

FICE VE

OTHERWISE.

ITATNED

ITED

DAS bOIng LILOTYLANEd in COnneCtIOnIth

an applicant-type investigation by SA JAMSS P, HOSTI, JR,, at

which time he volunteored the information that he had been in

contact with the National indiguation Convention (NIC), which

has been identified as being affiliated with the John Birch

society. XX(4)

his former intormant

advised that he was ablo to

dotermine that ROBERT DOPUGH of Hisgourd, was In contact with

the NXC on several occasions atteupting to soldelt the ald oi

that organization and to recruit members of the NIl to bla

group. Tito (fornor informant indieated that the leadership

of the NIC did not want to have anything to do with DeDUCH

and rofused to cooperate with himy however, sone individuals,

whose nones this former informant did not care to divulge at

this time, did indicato a desiro to form an organtration

similar to the "HINUrEMEN".

DOPItH Indicated that there were

individuals sympathetic to the "HINUlEMEN" in the Houston area.

According to this (tormor informant.

Indloiduals are oither mombers at the John Birch society or

former menbers of the John Birod Socioty who have bocono

disgusted with merely uriting letters and sinilar type

activitles, and they feel this nation to an imminent danger

of invasion by the soviot unios, and they wish to be prepared

to resist such an invasion.

They also fonr that trastore

within the united states will attempt to surrender

this country

to communian by turning this country over to the mited Nations

which in turn would give this country over to

the connunists,

and they intend to resist this.

2 - Bureau (RA)

8 - HOUstOn (RI)

2 - Kansas City

(62-7797)(141)

•. Baz Antonto

• 42315(5568540/64

Consens

Dead sly on

MAD

183

011.326

1202%

+

Indis

fille -on

Search-com

53074

DocId: 32335623

Page 3

CO

AL

---

