# docid-32304743

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10373

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-411

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

• TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/08/1963

LCN, OC, MAFIA, MEMBERS A/O LEADERS, IDENTITY,

• INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : : 06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1.

DocId: 32304743 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Horey.

/DATE: 21-14-2017

FEDEZAL BUREAU OF INVEST GATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 8 1963

TELETYPE

JAM

Ve. Tolson

Mr. Delmont

Mr. Casper

Mr. Cailahan.

Mr. Conrad

Mir. Evens!

Vir. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sulliver

Mir. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele, Room

Miss Holes

Ling Fandy

URGENT: 8-8-63

3-24

PM

TO DIRECTOR

111/

FROM SAC NEW YORK

1P

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR-CONSPIRACY

ON AUGUST SEVEN, DEPARTMENIAL ATTORNEY JOHN LALLY CONTACTED

THE NYO AND REQUESTED THIS OFFICE MAKE AVAILABLE TO HIM A LISTING OF

ALL INDIVIDUALS NAMED BY FORMER NY THREE EIGHT SIX FOUR-C-TE AS

MEMBERS OF CAPTIONED ORGANIZATION. IT IS NOTED THAT NY THREE EIGHT

SIX FOUR-C-TE WAS KILLED JULY ELEVEN, SIXTYTHREE. INQUIRY WAS MADE

AS TO THE REASON FOR THE PREPARATION OF SUCH A LIST BUT NO SATISFACTORY

ANSWER WAS OBTAINED FROM DEPARTMENTAL ATTORNEY LALLY. LALLY WAS

ADVISED THAT HIS REQUEST WOULD BE MADE KNOWN TO THE BUREAU AND NO

COMMITMENT WAS MADE TO HIM TO FURNISH SUCH A LIST. IT IS NOTED THAT

EXTENSIVE FILE REVIEWS WILL BE NECESSARY TO EFFECT COMPILATION. NO

SUCH LIST WILL BE PREPARED BY NY UNLESS SO INSTRUCTED BY BUREAU.

AMENDED PAGES TO RECENT COSA NOSTRA REPORT BEING FORWARDED TO

BUREAU AUGUSZ B8AE48

RANKTYTHREE.

REG 126.

Q

Tens Hellman

3-29 PM NY R

1

1_8-961

TTE,CHS

TU

1963

3 101

• • SEP & 1963

DocId: 32304743 Page 2

---

