# docid-32288212

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10198-10488

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1034

Released under the John

F• kennedy

ussassination Recoros

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45966 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LABADIE, STEPHEN J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/02/1964

PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS :

LST, TRA, RES, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:,

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HN 45966

DooId: 32288212

Page

1

---

## Page 2

TP 92-1

(5) Will determine subscriber to Miami telephone

UNion

4-2618 called from Tampa residence on 4/17/64.

(6) Will noted that

and consider future coverage of subject in this

JER Law.

regard.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

Will endeavor to ascertain through sources available

the identity of JOE (LNU) and his wife who apprently visited

Tampa, Fla:

in June of 1964,.

it being noted only fair descrip-

tion of same were

furnished by Tampa source.

43190164

PHILADELPHIA DIVISION

AT PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA

Aunt

Will maintain contact with confidential sources rela-

tive to any and all

activities

on the part of this subject with

Philadelphia

Top Hoodlum ANGELO BRUNO.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA * €12

(1)n

Will report resulte of investigation outstanding

in Miami Division

from leads that have been set forth in reports

dated 1/20, 2/25; 3/24, 4/24 and 5/26/64:

(2) Will report final disposition concerning subject

and his families' Internal Revenue tax matters.

(3) Will continue to explore highly confidential

coverage of subject's activities.

C

COVER PAGE

1: 122:20

1/20

visa

3/2

2

A₩ 45966 DocId:322882120 Page 2

190:

1a7410

124

Rud B.

71:02

/ 20044489

it tarth di

92-5181-1034

(a)

---

## Page 3

JFK Act 6 (4)

TP 92-1

(4) Will continue highly discreet investigation

concerning a NANCY (LNU)

alleged employee and associate of

FRANK RAGANO, attorney for subject and JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA®

AT ST. PETERSBURG BEACH, FLORIDA

(1) Will establish coverage on 3610 and 3612 El Centro,

residences of subject and his brother, SALVATORE C. TRAFFICANTE,

during the ensuing summer months, it being noted that TP 120-C

has pointed out that subject's daughters will be at the beach.

(2) Will maintain contact with confidential source

relative to activities and specifically

endeavor to ascertain Usubject visits such location and whether

or not he neets any individuals there.

(3).

Will note that St. Petersburg telephone number

361-1561 has been called from subject's Tampa

residende April 16,

18, 24 and May 9, 1964.

(4) Will determine subscriber to St. Petersburg

telephone 360-6708 called 5/9/64 from subject's Tampa residence.

ADMINI STRATI VE

Period of this report is extended over thirty days

Inasmuch as Agent to whom assigned has been on Annual Leave.

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

concealed and T symbols utilized where it has been necessary

to protect the identity of the

source.

An information copy of this report has been furnished

to Los Angeles inasmuch as leads are outstanding concerning

IRVIN FLETCHER HITSON, JR..

Records of the General Telephone Company of Florida,

Tampa, Florida, were made available to IC HENRY E. MO INTURFE

COVER PAGE

НН 45966 DocId:32288212 Page 3

92-2781-1834

---

## Page 4

JFK Act 6 (4)

TP. 92-1

IC MC INTURFF on 6/5/64 was made available records of the Merchants

Credit Bureau of Tampa by ANNA BENTOWSKI from report dated

7/4/61 that a FRANCIS R.

and EDITH.S.

Tampa, Florida, were known

GRIFFIN

of 4713 Oakellar,

to such files since 9/17/59.- Mr

GRIFFIN was 36 years of age at this time, white, married and

had two children.

He was employed by the Hillsborough County

Aviation Authority at the International Airport for five months

as comptroller with a salary of

$6,500 a year.

lived in Clearwater,

Fla. and previous to such at 144 iggert,

Buffalo, New York, and 510 Hewitt, Buffalo, N.Y.

was also

in the U. S. Air Force for four years and

owned his home valued

at $19,000 clear. He

owned a 1960 Plymouth, unencumbered by

any bank. He had satisfactory credit ratings in Clearwater,

Fla. and Buffalo, New York.

On May 21, 1964|

Frank T. Hurley

Associates, 26th Avenue and Pass-A-Grille Way, St. Petersburg

Beach, Fla., advised SA JAMES E.

WALLACE that

JOHN TEW rents

the upstairs apartment at the

subject's beach house unt?

6/15/64 and he is expected to vacate such by 6/11/64.

TEW

is the former manager of the Was Museum, believed now employed

by Hallmark or Norcross greeting card

company

MIS

CECELIA A. CASE is in the downstairs apartment

at the subject's beach house, having moved in 4/13/64, and

this source believed her to be sister-in-law of ROBERT MC NULTY.

and is presently a circult judge, Sixth District.

On 6/16/64 a light blue Fiat, 1964 Florida license

4D-20381, was observed by Agents JAMES E.

WALLACE and ORIAN R

KENNEDY parked in the driveway of subject's beach residence,

3612 El Centro, St. Petersburg Beach, Florida, on 6/22/64•

VEDA RICHARD, Auto Tag Agency, 16th Street North,

st. Petersburg, advised the above number was issued to

F

COVER PAGE

_HH 45966 DocId:32288212 Page 1

92-2781-1034

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

CELIA CASE, 3610 El Centro, St. Petersburg Beach, 6/5/64 on a

1963 Fiat.

It was noted that both upstairs and downstairs at

3610 El Centro were apparently occupied on 6/19/64.

INFORMANTS

TP. T-I 1s TP: 120-C.

TP T-2 is TP 97-C.

TP T-3 is Mxs. GEORGE HUBER, neighbor of subject at

his Miami residence (by request)

TP T-4 is records of IRS. Washington, D. C.

made available by

reterenced Bureau letter to Tampa 5/22/64.

JEK Law 11(a)

TP T-5 is TP 41-C

COVER PAGE

WW 45966

DocId: 32288212

Page

92-2781-1054

---

## Page 6

FD-2Q4 (Rev. 3=3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT. OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1

-

USA; Tampa

1-

USA, Miami, ATTN:

Report of:

Date:

SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE

July 2, 1964

Field Office File # 92-1

Title:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

WILLIAM KENNEY

Ofices

Bureau File #:

Tampa

92-2781

Character:

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACRETEERING

Subject continues to travel between Miami and Tampa,

Fla. residences:

While in Tampa he was observed in con-

tact with FRANKUDIECIDUE, operator of Dixie Amusement

co., a vending machine business.

Source advised

he: was

Tampa unexpectedly on Sun., 6/21/64, when he and wife

had dinner with unknown couple, believed from NYC.

ject was reported at Tampa on Sun., 6/14/64 when in com-

(LA pany of JULIE GRIMALDI, SON Of ANTHONY GRIMALDI, presi-

dent of local Tampa bank, and was overheard to say he

was leaving Tampa at 1:30 a.m. Monday, 6/15/64 for Miami.

He last left Tampa via Delta Airlines for Miami afternoon

of 6/23/64, and as of 6/29/64 had not returned to Tampa.

His wife followed him to Miami 6/24/64. While in Miami

subject in contact with Judy Salvat's Dry Cleaners and with

Valentine Ice Cream Co.

JEK La

11(a)

Telephone toll calls from sub-

ject's residence set forth and nothing of significance

determined from check of pay phone booths, St. Joseph's

Hospital, Tampa.

SUBJECT TO BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND

DANGEROUS DUE TO HIS EXTENSIVE PAST ASSOCIATIONS IN

CRIMINAL ACTIVITTES:

- P

DETAILS:

92-2781-1034

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

It 15ger apart gate grentp affang to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 7

TP. 92-1

source reported the girls and their husbands are plan-

ning on using the beach house at St. Petersburg Beach

1 during

July.

Source advised that SANTO on Sunday, June 21, 1964,

was unexpectedly at 2505 Bristol Avenue, and that it was be-

lieved he came to Tampa on Saturday because Mrs. TRAFFICANTE

was in desparate need of household help and required special

assistance to cook inasmuch as the TRAFFICANTEs were to have

unexpected guests.

Source advised that the persons who appeared

at the TRAPFICANTE residence on Sunday, June 21, 1964 were an

individual named JOE (Last Name Unknown), a white

male, middle

fifties, brown hair, graying on the sides, not short but

slender

to tall, American, but spoke with SANTO in Italian.

This individual's wife was described as a white female, early

to middle forties, light tinted reddish hair, not real

not tall,

of medium build,

small,

This

giving

appearance of being foreign.

woman was apprently born in America, but her parents were

born in Italy and she did

"not speak Italian.

The manand

woman wese believed to be staying

New York City, and it was gathered that

SANTO had apparently

in the past visited in their home in New York City, no

dates

or times ascertained.

After their dinner,

Mrand Mrs.

SANTO TRAFFICANTE were

to leave 2505 Bristol Avenue with this

couple.

IP T-1 advised on June 30, 1964 that SANTO TRAFFICANIE

stayed around Tampa, Florida Monday, June 22, 1964; Tuesday,

June 23, 1964 in the morntas and then left for Miami June 23.

Source said subject's wife was in Tampa and left for Miami on

Wednesday, June 24, 1964! Neither SANTO nor Mrs. TRAFFICANTE

have returned to Tampa since this date, according to this source.

On June 30, 1964 TP T-5 advised that SANTO TRAFFICANTE

was at the Peacock

• ALley Lounge at the Coliseum Lanes at

10:30

Pom., Sunday, June 14, 1964. He was in the company of

JULIE GRIMALDI, SON Of TONY GRIMALDI, president of the Columbia

Bank of Ybor City. At such time SANTO talked with an individual

10

1470:

92-2781-10361

HH 15966 DocId:32288212 • Page 7

---

## Page 8

TP 92-1

The records reflect that the principal place of

business and address of the company was listed as East Main

Street

and Burbank Avenue, Lakeland

The records reflect that the current taxes for this

corporation were paid as of July 5, 1963.

The

company was

formed for the purpose of selling equipment and service of

vehicles and trucks.

FOREHAND advised that the records reflect the first

President of the Lakeland Trucking and Equipment Company was

FRANCES J. SHERMAN,

926 S Mississippi Avenue, Lakeland,

Florida, Vice President J. S. SHERMAN, RFD 2, Malvern, Penn-

sylvanie; DONNA M. DAVIS,

Secretary Treasurer, 926 S.

Mississippi Avenue, Lakeland, Florida.

FOREHAND advised that the name of the corporation

was changed by an amendment

and that there was no reason

reflected for the change of the name and that all creditors

were notified concerning this change.

IV:

INCOME TAX MATTERS

TP. T-4

JFK Law 111

TP T-4

15

108ad

474d 000

HH 45966 DocId: 32288212 Page 8

192-2781-1034

---

## Page 9

TP 92-1

TP T-4

JEK Law 11(a)

_TP T-4

16

397

ther

HH 45966

DooId:32288212

Page 9

92-2781-1034

---

## Page 10

TP 92-1

JFK Law

(a)

TP T-4

TP T-4

TP T-4

TP T-4

17

HH 45966

DocId: 32288212

Page 10

92-2781-1034.

---

## Page 11

TP 92-1

TP T-4

JEK Law 11(a)

TP T-4

TP T-4

TP: T-4

18

N# 45966. DocId: 32288212 Page 11

92-2781-1034

---

## Page 12

TP. 92-1

JEK Law 11

TV. TELEPHONE TOLL CALLS FROM PAY BOOTHS, ST. JOSEPH'S HOSPITAL

It has previously been reported that subject was in

Joseph's Hospital on the main floor, and the closest

telephone booths to his room were determined to be telephone

numbers 229-7920 and 229-7959.

In view of the above, the

following is set forth:

19

MH 45966

DocId: 32288212

Page

12

92-2781-1034

---

