# docid-32335506

## Page 1

\ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90124-10064

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-97459-211-104

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AT

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1965

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335506

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the tohn F? Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-1AFONAL FORM NO. 10

parain

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-107-02

GSA GEN. 'REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES & BERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-97459-211)

DATE: 6/16/65

SUBJECT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

01€10 29/97

5668-540

nice

NATIONAL GROUP COVERAGE - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(5FK)

Re Bureau teletype dated 6/10/65 referring to LEGAT teletype

number one and Knoxville letter dated 6/7/65, captioned "DOMSIT"

Knoxville furnished information regarding MITCHELL WERBEL.

MITCHEL WERBEL undoubtedly is identical with MITCHELL L.

in that are . Ponder, serines, 0a.

were bell

in regard to MITCHELL L.

reflect he was mentioned in the investisative matter Dr. lier

III,

HENRY LOUGHLIN, RA-Haiti, N. Y. Origin, Bufile 97-3808.

On 12/13/62, WERBELL was reported residing in Guatemala

City.

On 1/9/63 it was determined through credit bureau of Atlanta

records a Federal Tax Lien #61-7090 for $6,282.69 was outstanding

against WERBELL.

Guatemala Fla: ENg. Per. My

On '3/14/63 MITCHELL L. WERBELL was interviewed at his rest-

dence in Powder Springs, Georgia.

On this occasion WERBELL advised

he was president of "Communication International, Inc. and is engaged

in the field of Public Relations.

Frince Italy

On 9/11/62, the U. S. Customs Office in Savannah,

advised that information had been received fromaa Confidential

Source (AT 1762-C) of unknown reliability regarding a possible

illicit international traffic in arms and ammunition which may

be in violation of our Neutrality Laws, to wit:

Communications International, reportedly an advertising

concern with offices at 1602 Rhodes-Haverty Bldg..

Atlanta, Ga.,

is doing business with one General FONDOSA of Costa Rica,

may be negotiating to provide a large quantity of arms for use

- Bureau RM

- Knoxville RM

2 - Atlanta

(1 - 2-35)

€ -2-5516126

10u

AFM: mel

JUN 14Q 1965

JUN 2 9 196 euts. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Say

DocId: 32335506 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 note).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

AT 105-1612

in a revolutionary attack on the present regime in Cuba

(CASTRO). Ostensibly these arms were to be purchased

in Belgium for shipment to Costa Rica by Communications

International. It is noted that MITCHELL C. WEREBELL

of Cobb County, Ga. was identified as President of Commun-

ications International.

One JOE- KANE of 805 Peachtree

St., Atlanta, was also identified as having some unknown

connection with Communications International, Inc. along

with one SAM MCCONNELL of Fort Lauderdale, florida.

No information was received from Customs as to

action taken in this matter of arms from Belgium to Costa

Rica for General FONDOSA.

On 10/12/64 AT 1762-C reported that MITCHELL

WER-BELL, resident of Powder Springs, Ga., is now in the

Dominican Republic.

In January 1958, case captioned EDWARD SCOTT

GALLANDT HOLLER, waS. ETAL, ITSMV,

26-23004, Birmingham Origin, MITCHELL VERBEY, BuiSe

Subject HOLLER unknown to him. HOLLER in September 1957

passed three worthless checks drawn on the account MITCHELL

WERBELL, advertising, amounting to approximately $200.

In case captioned JOSEPH MEROLA, was., ITSP

(BUIlLe 01-39031) MITCHELL L. WERBELL, III, of Powder

springs, Ga. was mentioned prominently. MEROLA is described

as a top jewel. thief and was reportedly in contact with

WERBELL in Octöber 1959 regarding a possible Cuban PESOS

swindle.

The extent of WERBELL's participation this matter

unknown to Atlanta as Chicago was origin in this investiga-

tion.

WERBELL was also in contact with MEROLA 2/28/61 and

3/4/61.

The Clerk's Office, U. S. District Court, Atlanta,

reflects

that MITCHELL WERBELL

Inc. on 11/21/57 filed a

petition for bankruptcy.

In 1959 the bankruptcy file failed

to reflect final adjudication of this petition.

-2 -

DocId: 32335506 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

, DATE:. 11-14-2017

AT 105-1612

was made of small arms, ammunition

mercenary troops to the Guatemalan Ministry of Defense to

fight Communism.

Lt. Col. AGUILAR de LEON, Acting Minister of

Labor of Guatemala requested information regarding these

individuals. It is noted MANUEL FUEGO was subject of Registra-

tion Act case,

(Bufile 97-3224).

tigation weRneLl was dascribed as being involved in a plan to

In this inves-

ship arms to Equador.

J. A. KANE described as an associate of WERBELL,

and a business partner in certain ventures is subject of an

LINE VIOLatIOn, Butile 87-73553, JOSEPH A. KANE, ITSP,

wherein

certain stock certificates of Union Oil and Gas

Corporation

of Louisiana were used as collateral for bank loans, for which

offense he was sentenced 6/12/64 in Superior Court, Fulton.

County, Ga.

On 9/25/62, IC JAMES W. MURRAY reviewed the passport

following

information was obtained:

WERBELL, whose address was listed

. as RD #1, Powder

Springs, Georgia,

and whose occupation was reflected

as

"Public

Relations-Adv. Executive" was born 3/8/18 at Phila-

delphia, Pa.

In response to a passport application dated 5/25/62

at Atlanta, Georgia, WERBELL was issued passport number C301433

on 5/29/62,

at Miami, Florida.

In this application WERBELL

stated his intention

to travel to England and Germany on

business and listed his approximate date of departure as

The above passport was restricted

from travel to Albania, Cuba, and those portions of China,

Korea, and Viet-Nam under communist control.

- 3 -

pUS

REVIEWED BY BJEK TASK FORCE

ON

8/s8 moldat

E RELEASE IN FOLL

• RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

105-97459-211-104

DocId: 32335506 Page 4

---

