# docid-32318039

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10356-10216

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

72-2382-701

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:,

SUBJECTS :

12/15/1979

6

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32318039

87

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hotel:

Exec.

1110^13 34921237

PE HI' NO 53

Asst. Cr:

Adri.

C 19/42

ti:

i:.

L :

P 1490037 000 10

PH "HIAMI (96-517)

TO DIRS CTOR FRIDPITY

WU DELEONS PRIORITY

SAN DIEGO PRIORITY

Cirec.br.

BT

INCLAS EETO

ATTENTION: HAND CARRY TO OC SUPERVISOR LANE ORBELL.

ROSKIL.

_-am P? NELL ORLEANS TELETYPE TO MIAMI DATED NOVEMBER 9, 1979,

AND NEW ORLEANS TELETYPE TO MIAMI DATED MOVERSTO 14, 1979.

EOR INFOPMATION OF SAN DISGO, JOHN JOSEPH MIORANA, WHITE

MALE, DEIT OF FIRTH MAY 29, 1934, AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,

SENTENCED TO 25 YARS FOR NARCOTICS ACTIVITIES. MIORANA

COOPEPATING VITH U.S. GOVERNMENT AND GIVEN IMMUNITY. MIORANA

FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:

MIDDANA OPERATED AS AN INDEPENDENT FROM NEW OPLEANS, BUT

MIS MAIN ASSOCIATE AND CONTACT WAS HOWARD WILLIAM PESTANO,

12-238 2-70

DEC DO 1379

OJAN: 7 1980

DocId: 32318039 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE THREE MM 92-517 UNCLASSE FT O

KILLING OF LARRY FLINT, "HUSTLER" MAGAZINE PUBLISHER. PESTANO

STATED "THEY WANTED FLINT HIT", AND AGAIN OFFERED MIORANA

$50,000. AGAIN MIORANA DECLINED AS NOT INTERESTED. LATER

AFTER ATTEMPTED HIT ON FLINT, PESTANO RELATED TO MIORANA "SEE,

YOU COULD HAVE GOTTEN THAT 50*•

MIORANA STATED IN INTERVIEW THAT PESTANO WOULD MENTION

SANTO TRAFFICANTE IN CONVERSATION AND WAS EXTREMELY CLOSE TO

A NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, AND OFTEN COLLECTED

GAMBLING DEBTS DUE TO LAS VEGAS CASINOS•

MIORANA ADVISED PESTANO*S CLOSEST ASSOCIATE IN MIAMI WAS

(LNU), NEPHEW OF SANTO TRAFFICANTE •

FOR INFORMATION OF NEW ORLEANS, A HIGHLY PLACED SOURCE,

CODE NAMED-ULYSSES, WHOSE IDENTITY IS KNOWN ONLY TO HEADQUARTERS,

HAS IDENTIFIED CHICAGO "HIT MEN" VINCENT INSERRO, FRANK SCHWEIHS,

AND OTHERS AS ROSELLI'S KILLERS• THIS INFORMATION IS NOT FOR

DISSEMINATION OUTSIDE OF FBI. ALTHOUGH ULYSSES HIGHLY

RELIABLE, THIS INFORMATION IS NOT FIRST HAND THEREFORE MIAMI

AND HEADQUARTERS RECEPTIVE TO IDENTIFICATION OF OTHER SUSPECTS

THIS MATTER•

DocId: 32318039 Page 3

---

