# docid-32297759

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10035

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-220

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/04/1976

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8, BOMBING, SUSP, ACA, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/14/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32297759

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

PAGE FIVE 7917

FIVE

MM

2-469 S

R

ET

ADMINISTRATIVE.

FIRST SOURCE IS RAUL DIAZ, ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU, DADE

COUTNY PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT.

SECOND SOURCE IS MM 1337-S.

SEGRET

RAUL DIAZ SAID THAI HIS DEPARIMENT HAS RECEIVED COPIES OF

SOME PAPERS SEIZED FROM THE RESIDENCE OF SUAREZ ESQUIVEL

DURING A SEARCH, BUT HE DOES NOT KNOW THE DETAILS AT THIS TIME.

DIAZ SAID HE BELIEVES THESE PAPERS WERE SEIZED SHORTLY AFTER

THE BOMBING OF THE RUSSIAN SHIP "IVAN SHEPETKOV" AT PORT

ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY, ON SEPTEMBER 16, 1976.

THE BUREAU IS REQUESTED TO FURNISH ABOVE INFORMATION TO

LEGAT, CARACAS. MIAMI ALSO DESIRES IO BE ADVISED BY LEGAT,

CARACAS WHETHER OR NOI MORALES NAVARRETE IS STILL FRIENDLY AND CUJ

COOPERATING WITK LEGAT'S OFFICE, AND IF NOT , THE NATURE OF

HIS RELATIONSHIP AT THIS TIME

ANY OBSERVATION LEGAT, CARACAS

MAY HAVE REGARDING INFORMATION FURNISHED BY MORALES NAVARRETE I SO UJ

AS'SET OUT IN THIS AND OTHER TELETYPES WOULD BE APPRECIATED. (E)

SEpRET

DocId: 32297759

Page 2

---

