# docid-32585256

## Page 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

U.S

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 6 1966

TELETYPE

PBI WASH DO

ALL INFORMATI

ON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASCIFIE:

DATE 4•24-81

MOA

6/6/66

Дж

ME. LOlson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Gasper-

Mr. Callah:

Mr. Cobra

Mr. Felt_

Gade

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

MT.

Tavel

18. 100012

Miss Palmed.

Mise dandy.

PBI CHICAGO

206 PM CDST DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR (9203171)

FROM CHICAGO (92-349)

2P

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA.

ANTIRACKETEERING

CHICAGO.

==

REYYTEL JUNE SIX INSTANT. U

CHICAGO INFORMANTS FURNISHING INFO INDICATING THAT SERIOUS

CONCERN AMONG CHICAGe GROUP HAS BEEN CAUSED BY PUBLICITY AND

CONTROVERSY AROUSED BY RELEASE OF GLANCANA RATHER THAN BEING

CAUS'É FOR CELEBRATION.

GIANCANA RELEASE HAS TOUCHED OFF WHAT

APPERRS TO BE MOUNTING RESENTMENI AGAINSI BEHAVIOR OF GIANCANA:

AND HOODLUM CONNECTIONS. AS BUREAU AWARE, SMOLDERINE DISSENTION

WITHIN RATAS OF CHICAGO GROUP HAS BEEN A TACT SINCE BIANCAMA'S

TACTICS AND BEHAVIOR HAVE FOCUSE REP ATE 59221839

ONLY ON HIM PERSOMALLY, BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, ON ENTIRE

PETRUCTURE OT ORGANIZED CRIME HERE AND EVEN MATIONALLY? SUVEXT, 1956

INSTANCES OF STATE OF DISCOUTENT OF HOODLUM LEADERS HERE HAVE -

PREVIOUSLY BEEN FURNISHED BUREAU MOVEVER, IT NOV APPEARS THIS

END PAGE ONE

79 JUN 211966

MR DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

45792 DooId: 32585256 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE: IWO

DISSATISFACTION WITH GIANCANA IS REACHING A CRESCENDO BY

REASON OF FUROR CAUSED. (U)

AS EXAMPLE, CG SIX SEVEN FIVE SIX - C - TE ADVISED JUNE SIX

INSTANT THAI SAM BATTAGLIA REPORTEDLY SAID OVER WEEKEND THAT

RESULTS OF GIANCANA RELEASE "IS IHE WORST THING THAT COULD HAVE

HAPPENED TO US." BATTAGLIA APPARENILY FEELS. THAT AS A RESULT

-OF THIS SITUATION, NEW LAWS WILL BE PASSED WHICH WILL CURTAIL

ORGANIZED CRIME TO A GREATER EXIENT "EVEN THAN NOW." (V)

OTHER INFORMANTS AGREE THAT SPOTLIGHI OF ATTENTION WHICH

IS BEINGUPLACED ON GIANCANA AI THIS TIME WILL SERIOUSLY

ADVERSELY AFFECT HIS ABILITY TO MANAGE IHE ARRAIRS OF ORGANIZED

ORI ME. (V)

END

WA..• RCH

FBI WASH DO

TU CLR

ce. Mr. Gale

NW 45792 DooId: 32585256 Page 2

---

