# docid-32294722

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10213-10498

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-176

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/04/1963

• PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294722 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

FROM

SUBJ

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

CRIMINAL "COMMISSION";

ET AL

AR - CONSPIRACY

DATE:

2/4/63

ReBulet to New York dated January 8, 1963.

SF-2354-C is a native-born, United States citizen. As a youth,

he resided in New York City where he had associations and

contacts with individuals who are members of the captioned

organization and he has

admitted having relatives belonging

to it.

Source has been described by SF-2550-C-TE as a mem-

ber of the Italian-Sicilian Organization.

Source has not

admitted being a member of the organization; however, he has

indicated he has felt he would be initiated

into the organiza-

tion if he so desired."

Continuing, source is very close to the leadership of the

organization in the

San Jose, California, area and is a

confidant of theirs.

His close friends

and associates

include JOSEPH CERRITO, reported head of the organization

in this area, and

ANGELO MARINO and EMANUEL FIGLIA, who have

been described as

"Cabo Regiones" (Heads of the Region) in

the San Jose area.

Source has stated that his information concerning the

organization was obtained from his association with ANGELO

MARINO.

Bureau

-Wer bonk (92-2300) (RM)

8 - San Francisco

(1 -

92-593)

(1

- 92-41,

(1

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM)

137-1336, SF-2354-C)

(1

92-131, JOSEPH BONANNO)

"REG 23

202020054-

176

(1

92-124, JOSEPH CERRITO)

(1

92-180,

(1

ANGELO MARINO)

-

92-406

DOMINICK ANZAID

6 FEB 7 1963

(1 - 92-507, EMANUEL FIGLIA)

FSP: jab

0 FEB 141963

DocId: 32294722 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF-92-593

FSP: jab

Membership Ceremony

Source stated that when a member is brought into the organiza-

tion, his

index finger is dricked and allowed to bleed

freely and

that, in turn, is matched with a cut or bleeding

wrist of a member in the organization. In this way, they

become blood

brothers.

The member, by using his wrist, is

part of the "growing

The finger has symbolism, ir

that, like a scion, it is grafted to the growing tree.

becomes part of it and is one.

oring inge mate to

During this ceremony, a

holy card consisting of a small picture of a saint is

burned and a pledge of allegiance to the organization is

made by the neophyte,

putting the organization before him

self, his family and his religion.

The neophyte is then

kissed on both

cheeks by the members.

Corroboration of Information

The above information

was subsequently corroborated in

interviews with SF-2550-C-TE.

SF-2354-C denies he is presently a member of the organiza-

tion. His statements of his non-membership.are voluntary,

as he apparently prefers not to be identified as a member.

However, the information obtained from him, his acquaintance-

shep with the above-mentioned people and his knowledge of

activities would indicate that he is, as described

by SF-2550-C-TE, a member of captioned organization.

4

DocId: 32294722 Page

---

