# docid-32315884

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10346-10004

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-3-27

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/07/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315884

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Redords Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC, 2107 Hote).

DATE :

11-14-2017

FD-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-2924

JUNE

DATE:

1/7/63

FROM SAC, BUFFALO

(92-61 Sub 3)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF, TÉCHNICAI OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

RE: Title

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

Character- of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Buffalo ,

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

BU 280-C*

Microphone

2:

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

STEVE MAGADDINO

Dana Drive

Town of Lewiston

• NEW YOYK

Address where installation made.

Also give exact room number or area

covered;

Magaddino Memorial Chapel

Portage Road and Niagara Street

Nagara Falls

New

York

Location of monitoring plant:

Buttalo office

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation;

Bureau letter dated October 22,

1962, authorized installation

of BU 280-C*. The installation was made detout 8, 1962

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

BU 82-c* was installed in the office of the Camellia Linen

Supplý Company, 460. East Delevan Avenue, Buffalo, New York,

on

April 4,

1961,

under the caption: "VINCENT A. SCRO, AR,"

Bureau

file 92-4227

6.

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

Is a trunk line utilized? Not applioable.

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard? No.

c. 'I's the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

- No

LTP

- Bureau (RM)

• Buffalo

LFA: Jmb (2)

Bearched Sortalized Die

Registered Mail

Indered

* Filad

92:61 Auk 3- 02:1

DocId: 32315884

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, (14, USC 2107,Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU: 92-61 Sub- 3

a. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line? Private line.

e. If a party line, how many parties? Not applicable.

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

1 microphone, in a 44 A telephone block on the wall in the office

Of PETER A. MAGADDINO; Magaddino Memorial Chapel, Niagara Falls,

New York.

the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.:

+10.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No:

11.

Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is known to 5 live informants,

however, 'they are not

In a position to furnish information supplied by BU 280÷0*.

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside aganey (give name, titlo and

agency ):

No.

14.

Cost of Plant Premises:

a.

Rental costs for plant premises: None.

office.

- Plant located in Buffalo

b.

Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Seven.

-2

-

DocId: 32315884 Page 3

---

