# docid-32570534

## Page 1

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-11-2017

1 - Nasca

8/2/63

Aintel

To:

SAC, Miami

2 - New Orleans

2 - Newark

2 - Atlanta

2 - Jacksonville

From: Director, FBI

VICTOR DOMINADOR ESPINOSA HERNANDEZ, et al.

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSITIED

1/18/94

BY SPEBIA GUL

P& MAC/GAT (JFK)

ReNOtel 8/1/63 in captioned matter.

Miami immediately advise results of interview of

Miami PCI Michael McLaney, Particularly whether he is related to

William Julius McLaney.

In view of Michael Melaney's reported

interest in 6/15/63 plan to bomb Cuba, he might well have a connection

with this case and may have influenced William McLaney to cooperate

in captioned matter.

Alpizaz, Miguel Alvarer

Sam Benton and Jose de Jesus Basulto Leon

who have been mentioned in previous Miant conmunications as possibly

being involved in this matter, as well as any other suspecte developed

through Investigation, Miami also Interview Gonzalo Herrera. former

Cuban airlines: pilot and other logical former Cuben palots who may

have been approached to pilot planes. in this matter..

If not already

done: all suspects connected with the June 16) 1963, attempt, to bomb

Cuba, which was handled by Customs, should be intervieved,

Albany

Tolson

Belmont

New York

"REG g

Mohr

Springfield

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

2-111

not boat

DeLoach.

Evans

VHN: pal

Gale

(15)

Rosen

Sullivan

AUG 2. 1983

COMM-FBI

19 AUG 8.1983

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

RAUl, 12

ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

2-1820

, 5

NW 54464 DooId: 32570534

Page 1

---

