# docid-32337260

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90137-10026

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-89660-173

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SEE TITLE

FROM:

[Restricted]

TO :

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 05/18/1962

PAGES:

15

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

CUBANA AIRLINES (DEFECTORS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LET

v9.1

DocId: 32337260

13

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

• Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 414 USC 2107 hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

BY HAND

CGRRESPONDENCE TO BE

SECRE

THE COMMISSIONER. P:

R..C. M. POLICE,

OTTAWA

FILE NO. D 973-17-3

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA,

CANADA

May 18, 196741

Dear Mr. Innes:

On May 3, 1962 your office was telephonically

advised by Sgt. STEWART Of this Directorate that

cuban nationals pigler de Jesus DARiAS IOrEz,and his

wife, Ofelia, Cabrera Rodriguez,,

passengers on Czech

Airlines Flight *524/02 from Havana, Cuba to Prague,

Czechoslovakia, sought political asylum when the above

mentioned flight touched down for re-lueling on May 2,

1962 at Halifax, N.S. International Airport. Attached

please find copies of additional detail which has now

become available and is supplied for your information.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR-

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY. IT MAY BE DISSEMI-

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT THE ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE IS

NOT TO BE NAMED AS JHE SOURCE.

Director,

Security & Intelligence®

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFY

ATE 4-20 45B 5668540 ma

(JAK)

Mr. Moss Lee Innes,

c/o U.S. Embassy,

O I IAWA, Ontario.

105-89660-175

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32337260 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the

DATE: 11-14-2017.

Hot

5973-17-3

SECRET

When Flight 524/02 landed at Halifax International Airport

at approximately 8:00 P.M. on May 2,

1902,

the passengers and crew

of this aircraft entered the Airport

building.

DARIAS

and his wife

immediately approached the first

person they

saw wearing a Canadian

unifor and requested political asyium in Canada.

2.

DARIAS

and his wife both can read and

speak Englisa fluently,

and after their intentions

to request

political asylun were made clear,

it was decided by the Canadian officials

present that the Captain of

the Czech Airlines plane should be advised

that DARIAS and his wife

would se remining in Canada.

When they

lett

the

aircraft, they took

two small overnight bags with then,

however,

a large suitcase, con-

taining nostly clothes,

was stored

in the

luggage compartment of the

aircraft.

When Captain Vaclay

BRAULI was advised that DARIAS and his

wife would be remaining in Canada,

he

ordered. that the luggage be unloaded

from the aircraft and

that

for explosives.

The plane.was unloaded

the suitesse. py.

velonging to them be searched

the Czech crew and was also

searched

by

them.

After this was completed, the suitcase belonging

to DARIAS was taken into the cockpit of the aircraft and Captain

BRAUMI

refused

to

turn it over to the Canadion Immigration Cfficer.

Captain

BRAUl: requested that on official document, signed by the Canedian

police, be

given

to him stating that DARiS and his wife were remain-

ing in Cansde.

Inis request was inored by the Immigration Officer.

The aircraft, after the

luggage belonging to the other passengers had

been reloaded, took off from Halifax Intemational Airport at approx-

imately 1:00 A.l. on May 3, 1902.

DARIAS and his wife were placed in

the custody of Canadian Immigration authorities at lialifat.

From

interviews with them on the and and 9th of May, 1902, the following

port,

however,

he was in possession of the folloving described

identification cards:

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Radio Habana Cuba

Asociacion Nacionel de Profesionales

Publicitarios

Republica de Cuba - Colegio Nacional de Profesionales,

Publicitarios.

Republica de Cuba, Ministerio de Governacion.

Licencia de Conduccion (Drivers License)

Born - October 15, 1930 - Havana, Cubar

Married - August 9, 1958, Havena, Cuba, at Melegrosa Church,

Santos Suarez - Both civil and church marriages

periorned on same date.

Ho was married to Ofelia Cabrera Rodriguez.

No documents to verify this marriage)

They have no children.

Parents - Both living, however, they

Mother - rancisen dies entet ti

162 St. Nicolas Street,

father - Cerlos CARIAS Teon,

1913 645h Street, Marianao,

Havana, Cuba,

serrano Streot, Havana, Cuba.

M: 6 01 4 1S CLG6.O TAN THE MтO1.

•or t. 10d920F6.4

i Made. 192 M.

AM.FOE ICFORMATION CONTAINED

• o2

HEREIN iS UNCIASSIFIED

DATE4-2045 B15668520 med

(JAK)

DOCId: 32337260

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John

DATE: 11-14-2017

2107

TOT

Education -

Bachillerato (High School) - 5 years, 1948 to 1953:

Trelles College and Public Institute.

Did not complete his univeraity

education, however,

he was studying part-time

until 1956.

Employment - 1952 - 1955 Cuban National Library

1955 - 1957 Public Works Ministry, Stenographer

1957 - 1959 The Merchandising Surveyors and Advertising

Agency - Copy writer.

1959 - Sept. 1960 - Colgate-Palmolive Co. In the

Advertising Department,

as idvertising

Executive, and later as the Director's

Assistant

in the Research Departrent.

Sept. 1960 - May 1962 - Radio Havana Cuba • Script writer.

The following particulars obtained pertsining to his wife.

Dielia cabrera Rodriguez.

Daricis

Born - Noveniber 29, 1928,

Hatana,

Documents

- Fassport for the Republic of Cuba, No. 38975-

Last address since 1958 - serrano 606, Apt. 2,

Santos Suarez, Hayans,

Cuba.

Parents - Mother and father separated.

Mother - Maris Asuncion FODRIGUEZ-Rodriguez.

DARIAS and his life at Serrano. 600, Apt..2,

Santos Suarez, Havera, Caba.

Father - Juan Jose CABRERA Gonzalez,

Address - 10 October St. 903, Vibora, havana, Cuba.

Other members of family and

addresses:

Sisters -

Sarsh

CABRIRA Podriguez - Age 35

$ 1N505 1921

11 Street 355,

Casino,

Debortivo, Havana, Cuba.

Celia CABRERA Rodriguez - Age 25

11873 1931

St.

Julio 258,. Santos Suarez,

Havana, Cuba.

Brothers -

Rolendo

CABRERA

Rodriguez - Age

36

• 10902;

102b

Gonzalo CABPERA podriguez

- Age

18

1944

hoth living with sather at

10 october Street, 908,

Vibora, Havana, Cuba.

Inployment - 1950 - 1961 - Ministry of Public Works - Stenographer.

1961

- May

1962 - Housewife.

DARIAS and his wife were in possession of $2/.00 in American

money.

They have been making piens for seeking political asylu for

the past year, and a bolf, and made arrangements for this tourist

trip about six mönths ago.

The trip was arranged through the

Tourist Department of the Cuban Govertent,

and the

itinerary was

to

cover fifteen days in Czechoslovakia and fifteen days ia Russia.

"the

trip,

although sponsored by

the Cuban corerment, was a tourist

trip,

the individual paid for his own fare.

It cost DARIAS 2250 pesos

for himself and his wife.

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR.

it at Mr Biseru!.!

HATED 10: 61116 06704505 19 446655944

мама да 14E Mine.

DocId: 32337260

Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 794 U5C 210

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 3=

DARIAS stated that they have no relatives in the Unli..

nor have they corresponded with anyone in the U.S.A.

DARIAS stated that when they requested political asylum upon

arrival in Canada, it was their intention to apply for admission

DARIAS stated that they have no friends or

relatives. in the U.S.A. who would sponsor their admission to that

DARIAS advised that if they were admitted to the U.S.À.

they would like to go to New York and sees employment.

DARIAS stated that he was a supporter of Fidel CASTRO at

the time of the revolution, however, he now feels that CASTRO has

lost control of the Government, and that the Connunists are now

running the country.

DARIAS stated that he never stuäied Connun ism,

inor was he ever

sympathetic towards Communism.

He further stated

that within the past six nontho, the officials of Radio Havana Cuba

have had compulsory weekir lectures on Communism given to them by the

Director of Radio Havana Cuba, and his nane is Marcos BEHARAS, who

is considered to be a communist.

DARIAS, who appeared to be honest

and trustworthy, nes extremely

co-operative, and after he had beer

questioned along nunercus, different lines, he was asked if he

could prepere a summary or brief of the executive structure of

Radio Havana Cuba, and set out the names of the heads of the various

departments, and also designate whether or not they are Conmunisüs,

or Conmunist sympathizers.

DARIAS was more than willing to co-operate

and spent two days working constantly in preparing his brier.

He

wrote it originally in Spanisa, and then with the

assistance of his

wife, trenslated it into Englisi.

This brief, which is ten pages

long,

deals not only with the Radio Havana Cuba structural organization,

but also

contains brief remarks by DARIAS under the Headings of -

"Ise political apparatus in Cuba";

"Op's

'Active Revolutionary

Nucleouses';

"Revolution's Detense Conmittees"; "Labour Unions",

ets.,

and "How the Revolution's Deferse Conmittees work in

towns and cities",

and "How the G-2 or State's Security Department Works".

This brief, of course, consists of DARIAS' own opinions and

thoughts concerning individuals mentioned, and

opinions were not dealt with in detail.

Undoubtedly, DARIAS could

provide further hackground information concerning hadio Havana Cuba,

and if any rerticular point or name referred to in this briel needs

to be explained in fuller detail, DARIAS stated that he would be

willing to co-operate at any tune,

DARIAS requested that the

dissemination of this brief be treated as Secret, due to the fact

that members of his fanily and his wife's fanily are still residing

4.

DARIAS and his wife were interviewed by the United States

Consul in Halifax on May 8, 1962 and

completed admission application

loams for the U.S.t. at that tine.

expected that they will be

Granted admission to the U.S.A. in the near future.

You will find, attached, single photostatic

copy

of the

bove mentioned brief.

CANA

101.1902.

DoCId:32337260

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under

DATE: 11-14-

John E: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1997 197 USE

GEORS

D: 981-5-2-17-1:

(Halifax

SIS r/ 15-5-62)

DoCId: 32337260

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 210

DATE: 11-14-201

i regaceuts

in October 1900, because nationalization of all American enter-

prises in Cuba and also the most inportant Cuban ones, I lost my

job as issistant Director at

Colgate-Falmolive of Cuba's Researen

Dapartacht. I had started with Colgate a year before, successiu-

1y, as an advertising

Junior Executive.or. Brand-man.

Though the nationalization was the shock that vanished my last

sympathies

for the new Cuban government, in that very moment I

was not prepared to leave my country.. I had never come out ci

Cuba and it looked hard to me to live abroad. I was wrong wren

-thought

trat ny

country was crossing under a black cloud, ard that

everything would soon

turn to be like it was before.

Fence

the

government had announced that nobody would be throw

away

as = consecuence

of nationalization although their functions

would had disappeared, quoting all the people nose before jobs

had to do with advertising, radio or TV, could go to the Miristery

o. Communications'

Telecomunications Department, which would con-

tinue paying their salaries until send them to new jobs accordins

with their qualifications.

Eter tro months considering whether leaving or not Cuba, finally

I decided to stay, and in December 1960 went to Telecommunications

Department. In effect, they paid me my salary and informed ne in

that opportunity that all advertising men who had lose their jobs,

would be soon called to.work.in

a new radio station, directed by.

advertising nen too, amöng them were mentioned Marcos Behmaras,.

Pedio ;fosta end jose

Cainas, all them people that i knew beio-

re. Behnaras was perhaps the most brilliant radio and IV writer,

farous by his high incomes; Fedro Costa, a well known marketing

researcher; and Cainas, an excellent radio and TV director and pro-

ancer in

the most important private network of Cuba: Cro:

i nad worked a lew years: before with Behmaras and Costa in are.

DocId: 32337260 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-201

Hoer

vertising agency (Mercados, Surveys y Publicidad, S.A.), and 1

thought i knew them well. Nevertheless, I did not know the most

Laportant thing about this people: the three ones -I learned 1t

later- vere affiliated to Communist Party:

I went on receiving my '

salary from Telecommunications Department

and

in Merch 1961 I was called to Radio Progreso Building's 6th

#Joor (105 Infanta St., Havana), where I saw Pedro Costa who told

me trere would be the studios ana offices of the new. radio station,

which name would be Radio Havana Cuba and would broadcast for

abroad; that he would be the Administrator and Behmaras the Direr-

isi and Cainas the Vice-Director, but as those ones had so nany

duties outside by the moment, they could not occupy their posit-

ions right away. I was appointed to write three scripts for each

of the 30 minutes programes named "Popular Cuban Composers",

"Duba in the country! and "Our listeners make questions to us".

I wrote only for the former two and a month later presented them.

Benmaras and Cainas were there already. They met with me, read

the scripts and tola me those had no "political content", and asts-

ed me way I had not written anything for "Our listeners make que.s-

tions to us". I told them that it was certainly difficult to wri.

te about imaginary letters and questions. We discussed about the

til they give me a new task.

Days later I vas called up asain, this time, for a soit of stara lille

nesting in which surprisingly appeared Cesar Escalante, a top old-

conmunist chief. This man has in his hands all the radio and TV

stations in Cuba. During the meeting he referred to Behmaras, Cal-

ras and Costa as "comrades"; he told the personnel that new ladi

Favaria Cuba had a remarkable importance to the Revolution, and so.

that, all personnel had to be at such "high level", so, among other

things, nobody there could resign or be absent of such "responsili-

Ilty". afterwards, this kind of meeting was hold frequently.

after that I was called un again and received orders to direct the

•programme named "Cuba in the country", a musical-descriptive one,

DocId: 32337260 Page 8

---

## Page 9

#Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107

DATE: 11-11-201

(3)

rotel?

with songs interpreted by folkloric groups of peasants and speeches

:bout the Cuba's natural beauties,, the agrarian reform and present

.."heitiar way of difa" of Cuban poasants. I was dirocting this one

no otrer musical or descriptive ones until November 1961.

In October 1961 came to RHC a Czech who was introduced as Jiri

cel, a top red chief from Radio Prague, who came to give RiC an

Mu renesa structure. This track was about a month and a half in

I:C. He spent the first month studying very, carefully, in a humilia-

ty way, the personal file.of

each one, and the way of functioning

oc. every department. He spoke in English. Afterwards I knew he spc-

Spanish too, but hid it.

The Czech supported the thesis -and of course it was accepted- that

political untrusty people -me for instance- might be used in works

of some rasponsibility, and, instead of isolate those people, on

the contrary they had to be joined to he reds and "work on them",

in order to indoctrinate them and "join them to the revolutionary

process".

I supposed

this because coincidently the last time the Czech was

there, I myself and other people that I knew felt as me, were join-

ed in a Department named something like News Summary Department,

whose

functions, under the vigilance of a communist Head, were to

summarize

news, speeches and informations from the news-papers and

those coning through the

goverrment's New Agency "Frensa Latina".

The Czech "suggasted" too a

sort of courses of political indoctrina-

tion called "Study. Circles", which were held at least once a week.

These courses were obligatory for all the writing, speaking and pro-

ducing personnel and "optional" for

the rest. The courses were con-

ducted by Bahmaras and by the Spanish communist theoric Jose sonza-

lez-

per. There were read

and. explained communist texts. Finally

the conduciors asked questions to the people about the matier.

I orbit

DOCId:32337260

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released-uter

DATE: 11-14-20

ennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 /14

7.

ORGANIZATION

..ladio Station is divided into Sections. Each Section prepares all

•a progrannos, novo and spaeches broadcasted to eacr part of the world.

Sections are English (USA, Canacia & Europe); Latin American (all Aner.-

ca's

Spanish speaking countries); French: (Europe & may be Canada); Poi-

cucuese (Erazil); and Spain (Europe).

-citionire,

RHC "borrows its microphones" for half an hour two or three

cires a week to

Guatenala's, Dominican Republic's, Peru's and Guatemala

cornists noi settled in Cuba. These programmes are prepared by that

¿opEn Oud o1 RHC. (Guatemala: Former President vacopo

chenz and other:

do not know.-

Dominican Republic: Juan Doucoudrey

suatemala

Felix Dubrocg and

others I do not know.-

forbid Nicaragua I do not know the

people.)

Direction

Cesar

Escalante, Political "Commissar". He is the maximum résponsible

bofore the Government and the Communist Party

a21 euben radio and IV stations. Has no

office in RHC. Goes there

two

or thra: cines a week.

croos Behmaras, Director. Nember of the Cuban Communist Party.

Jose

d.

Cainas, Vicedirector. Cuban Cr.

Pedro,

costa, coministrator and Personnel Chief.

Cuban CP..

-Culia

Earli

joseph

orta,

Chief. American CP.

HiS. CP.menbu

Lucie

orona, Chief. Cuban CP.

C.P. Membro.

barbera Collins, writer and spealter.

I do not khow if American C?.

trancisca lendez, SP

_speaker. Cuban CP.

hool ernandez, speaker. Cuban. I do not know his political opinion.

latalia levueltas;

translater and writer. Cuban. I do not know her po-

d1t2

cal opinion.

-Zoster

camada name on

•"He is the husband o"

works for red TV Channel o

about 55,

Win nonard soul Spanisn Like an would have lived in

recently arrived, whose names do

a Spanish

peaking country.

DocId: 32337260

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 744 USC 21U7

• DATE: 11-14-2017

(7)

The political apparatus in Cuba.

CP's "Active Revolutionary Nu-

cleouses"

Revolution's Defense Committees, Labor Unions, etc.

These considerations are applicable not only for RHC but for all

offices and industries actually in the Government's hands -a 90%.

On the contrary muchopeople supposed to, the political apparatus.

is formed by very few members, although it does not mean that it

is not a very powerful one. Not everybody who wants it can became

an affiliate to CP. The affiliates must be very "chosen" people.

The main condition is to have no scroupulous in dennouncing any-

one whether or not be a relative or a friend.

Each industry or office has three main forms of political organi-

zation: the top one: CP's so-called "Active Revolutionary Nucleous-

es (CP's cellules); Revolution's Defense Committees and Labor

Unions. The chiefs of these organizations, and their members, as

a rule are always the same people.

Nucleouses rule the activities in every industry. or office. For

example: it it is of going to a meeting, an assembly or a masses

"demostration", or it is of doing the so-called "voluntary" work,

or some other activity, the Nucleous? members of the Union's

ones

talk personally to each one of the workers in order to obtain.

their assistance or "cooperation". The same way, workers are

forced

to integrate

the so-called "Militia"; which almost every-

one have to belong to, so that they became under military laws.

Thus anyone cannot resign or even leave the office or industry

when they wish.

The Revolution's Defense Conmittees, work, in all the industries

and offices, under the direction of the f-? or State's Security

Department. The Committees' members meet periodically, in secret,"

and study carefully the life, attitude and feelings of each worker

DocId: 32337260 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under th

• DATE: 11-14-201

Kenteti

"Assassination Retorts Collection Aut 01

1992 111 050*

Hot

('6.)

Spookers Leila,

ni tape-racorder Armando, oliva

Cuba openly considered as non sympathine

ind a creat number

of other tape-recorders,

radio-operators and techni-

cians whose name I dont know.

Most of them

are openly considered as non

synachizers.

LELSE ReLAtiOnS Department

This one. answers all the outer

correspondance and designs all the pan-

Thists, cooklets and

red

propaganda sent abroad. Acommodates in lavane

the newcomers to RHC from other countries.

Carlos

Monitea, Chief. Venezuelas Cr. MembeR pic

Venezuein

Sympathizer.

AuDA

Ind others whose names and political opinions I donot know.

The clork persorel of all the Sections and Departments (typewriters, ste-

nographers, phonists, etc.), as a general rule, is openly considered is

non sympathizer. Most of them came from extinguished advertising agencies

or cpropriated radio stations. in exception is chauffeur Juan N.

vargas

(e Cuban repatriaiel, affiliated

He handles the RAC's labor

Member

CribA

Ric's studios and offices are at 105 Infanta Street (Radio Progreso Buil-

ding), lavana. The main transmission equipments are not in this place

but in one of Havana province which I. do not know. Transmissions

origi-

nated at

Intanta go there through

phons lines.

DOCId: 32337260

Page 12

---

## Page 13

"Releasert under E

DATE: 11-14-201

Fohn F. Ken

collection Act 0f 1992 714 USC 2107 HOt

1i5)

40021020

jacinto, castellanos, Chief. El Salvador CP.

€110a.

Cuba

d: P.Member.

ston, writer. El salvador Opini

CuLa

i seniores, mater, Spain in a communist theardo dicende

do panas, titer. Cuban. Sympathizer.

Cuber

220192

Graciella

ondel, Chief. French. Sympathizer. CUr?

incion Vrenier, writer. French. Openly considered as non sympathizer.

reins, etit, writer. Haitien. I do not know is CP: Quila

Terro

ortizio

campaio, chief untis

Travalnista (Labor) Party's

communist

iS

Escioune Brazilian.

shes Cy considered sympathizer.

sympathizer.

the wife of.a former Cuban ambassador, Mariano Escalona, vi

communist sympathizer himself.

CubE

on the Saction's Chief is

another

Brazilian recently arrived. I do

Know if ce but suppose

so. Whose

only name I Know is first,

Carlos.

S. lionerd

Alvaraz-rios, chief. Cuban.

mpathizer.

hisalro, oper slanco, writers

Cubán. Openly considered as non sympathizer.

CubA

12: Deperuments

Lists Sunder Department

this one summarizes the news, speeches and informations daily appeared

in the papers and

coming through the Government's News Agency "Prensa

Latina". People here have instructions of writing no comments on

infor-

cations, only. the "facts". The

informations are passed around to Sectiors.

orlando Fundora, Chief. Cuban CP

redactors Raul

uintana,

Carmen

Villar and myself until.

detection, ail of them, lexcept Chief, are openly considered as non

(sympathisers.

roduetion Department

ere ine the speakers, producers, tape-recorders, radio-operators, ste.

@lucleous or of the Committee, except themselves. Another differ-

ent case is the Labor Union's members:

Everybody knows whe they

are, but do not now if they are also members of the lucleous or

DOCId: 32337260

Page 13

---

## Page 14

"Released under thee

DATE: 11-14-2017

Tratton Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 210g Hote

.18.):

the

elect the Labor Union

chiefs, the Nucleous

anechbly the personnel in which in a simple way obtain the

approval to agreements taken beforehand.

Cho-Revolution's Defense Committees, are formed by the affiliates

io she. Communist Farty of to. the Conmunist Youth or the Communist

owen federation, and also by some weak or coward people. or just

inuscroupulous sympathizers of the Revolution.

The members of the

Nucleouses form properly the Communist Party,

named

in Cuba "Unite Revolutionary Organizations" (ORI). Almost

all. of then are, the members of the ola Partido Socialista Popular

ce üibe (C?), although CRI is supposed to be formed also by the

"embers of the two most ramarkable organizations that fought

against Batista -"26th of. July Novement" (Castro and his men)

and "13th of March Directory" (students).

ine ORI has

a Central Committee of 25 members, preceded by Castro.

vary of these men is in charge of an important branch of the

nacional life

and

the industrial or agricultural production.

3.2ow the Central

Committee are the Provincial Directions of the

ClI, one for each Frovince; the Sectional Directions, one for

euch city districü; and the Active Revolutionary Nucleouses, one

lOr

each andustry or office.

I guess this is the similar orga-

nisition functioning in lussia and other communist countries,

with same ideology, purposes and procedures.

Finally, there are also the Communist Youth and the Federation

i Communist Women. Eut these two organizations, at least in

ünis moment, concerning to power, have relatively little importance

in Cuba.

DocId: 32337260

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Heleased under the,

DATE: 11-14-201

Tation Hevort

Is cortett ron Act or 1992 711 05c 210

HOT

How the

Revolution's Defense Committees work in towns and cities

Hence Conmittees in every industry or office, there is a Comit-

tec in every block at every town and city all over the country.

They are directed bi

sinister Gi2 or State'e Security Dopartmont.

frey inect at least once a week and analize the feeling concern-

ing the levolution of avery neighbor or family, house by house,

apertment, by apartment in each block.. Their members watch the

neighborhood 2l, hours a day. They check every package coming

oid the hones, so that nobody, among those who want to leave the

country. -and'almost

everyone, specially in middle-class

zones,

is considering to leave it, can take out his properties to sell.

chen c

or to present them to relatives.

her any family is being visited by strangers or simply by many

members of their on family, Conmittees call G-2. Sometimes they

report at political authorities at industries or offices the

workers that are not absolutely adicted to Revolution or did not

like to adorn their home's front with communist propaganda that

¿camittees pass around, for

example the hatred red banner. They

also cail C-2 when a family receives correspondance from abroad.

Whon somebody apply for his passport before the Ministry of

Foreign Relations, this Department report to the Comnittee of the

block

in which the person is living and to the office or industry

in which

works.

how the Co? or State's Security Department works

G-2 is perhaps the only Government's Department that makes its

joo god today. It uses the saó method and orzanization as

Russia's Secret Police or NEVD.

Whispers in Cuba say that G-2

is

properly directed by the Russia's Embassy at Havana. Its

apparent Chief

Is tajor ramiro

Valdes, Ministry of Interior and

monter o. the

ivan or

ist

arty's central Committee. This man,

aboud a year ago, spent sevaral months in Russia, learning avanc

ed repression methods.

C-2 has military and civil members. Military members are the nen

action thet perform detentions. Civil members are divided inti

DocId: 32337260 Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John/F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. 144 U5€ 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

tro classes: official and von official members.

The official

ones render visible functions, almost every time as escort or

detectives.

The non official members are the very dangerous ones. They never

visit G-2's offices neither have identification cards nor carry

weapons as a rule... They usually receive instructions by teleone

in their own homes after countersigns, and give their information

in the same way. They generally do an apparently normal life,

working in any industry or office and even their bosses do not

know their other lives.

When &-2 knows or supposed to that any kind of conspiration

against the fovernment has started in any place, or simply they

believe that a possibility of conspiring dos exist, send the non-

official members to infiltrate in such activities. Sometimes

wispers say, l-? creates by itself a sort of artificial

conspira-

izon in some place, in order to know, jail or eliminate

the people

aule to conspire or be actively unhappy with the Government. Thus

crey easily fall in. the. trahp.

nother in?'s method is the following: as there are always unhappy

people with the Governnent.or non adict to it in anyplace, they

are constantly moving from an office or industry to another this

kins of people, in order to they cannot create a conspiration

foous there.

DocId: 32337260

Page 16

---

