# docid-32160236

## Page 1

Released under the John E Kennedy Assassination Resords Collection Act at 1992(41 USS 3107 Hotel-

DATE: 11-1J-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10138-10008

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-563-114

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CHURCHILL, WINSTON T.

TO:

SAC, DE

TITLE:

DATE: 12/16/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

JR, BKG, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

06/30/1997

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32160236

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Motel

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFD-209 (Rev. 3-9-62)

OPTIONÃL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SACR

DIsTRONg (138-3680)

DATE:

22/10/83

R CI

FROM

SA

MOCHILS

IPSI

SUBJECT:

0-33

Dates of Contact

12 20 A

Titles and File #s on which contacted

COIRKC SO

COBRAND, DREA SAR

PRANE 3, UNAUM; AB (OD Distehareh)

GARPARE BATEX, A MA

02-219 10m2

JOYST 0.9

0201185 CONDONE

091466 (CRUEH785)

020 1225 (0I018781

Purpose and results of contact

NEGATIVE

" POSITIVE,

By airto,

dated 4/10/83, the Dureau souleed

Dotroit Oixico to summit dsily

• toletype munnies blich

tas

rolleat

cho wherestouts of 30331 BENItli and isio notivaties.

lafonnant

ms been saven the arcossie arcasent to dosty contact

the

Dosrost Cilice and

regort

2snllzd's shorenbouts and setivitica

On 18/4,5 and 6/63. Informant advises that J03DPJ 2A98E8

36338 83

She botross ures at bao reno in crocoa Porate Dura,

Intemant stated that to planned on ocesar sosbou

bond an Grande Pointo pass, hacassas,

tho

0000.0g

12/7/03.

On 19/0/69, Interant adriacd that ho had dinner

DATA DOMINIC CORNADO SE tho CANIDD residenco in Crosco Pointo

Dart, michigan.

Intorant advised that susha alailer and alo

rous panist, cross osta thelo vives. octonded

tho dinner

sad tao grong

disceanca

tho assweatention

of fornes Pres1d6nt

i Informant certified that he has

Rating

Coverage

furnished all information obtained

Escollons

Dano

by him since last contact.

Personal Data

44-568-104

jEARCHEN

INDEXED

SERIALZED

27100

DECA

1963

FBI

A DETROM

DocId: 32160236V Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F

Hoter

DATE 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC

Đ3: 137-1929

Irferant advised that JOSIR ZIRILLI made

the reart

thạt ho fools that Prosident JOLSON vill Daze a trich botter

Presidont as ho is nore nature. Intoret stated thas he asked

28RINnl 12 be thought, this ann BuBy, foraly of Chicago,

taod up vich OrAto and Zartly statca shain his opinion suar

did not oves nov (SUALD; horever, Internt stated tut sanita

Informant

statod that ho is strongly of the opinion that brilLI nover

khou

Intormant stated that ho binselt. man nover board

of JACK

loN BuY ta his many yours ascociated vith the Dotrolt Italian

caininal syndiento.

On 22/9/63

Intortant sdrised that the numbers basiness

as far as the Italians are concerned io completely closed doun.

Intormant statod that there la ruming the nubers. in Detroit a

colored group with the orcoption of one mall Indopendent aetion,

vich lo run by JOIN BASSO, obo picke up"a few bucks a vool"

and works as

a palesnam pastino at Shalla Chevrolet on

the

cast

side' of Detroit.

Intornant advised that as fan.

Op FRANE 8.

VAMOM 18

concerned, he is not acquainted nith bar in anyway and aftas vtowing

hts photograph stated, that ho hns never soen this indiyidual in the

Detrolt,

arca.

Informant stated that the

photograph of 218iLl,

phich vas tni

the "saturday Evoning Post" last sumer vas a photograp

which vas takos of ¿arillI apposinatoly 25 youre ago and in no vay

roscables LIRANI.

Intoriant atated that carliul noy has stool uray

hair and 18

a lot latter than he was when the photograph vas taton.

Intorint stated ho bad oo inforustion which vould indicato that

PERILLI vas la the Pittsburgh area with VAlstra in 1962.

Infornant

stated that GAsPERs RaRILAl,

To is a distant cousts o1 JOS ZEBILI,

cornerly portal in the PurER LICAVorI groups hoever, since the

closing down of the mabers action, he has no

o 10ca as 80 weat

GASPARE MERILE La doing.

hId:32160236 Page 311

---

