# docid-32348148

## Page 1

Date:

12/15/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10067-10440

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

released under the John F

ennedy Assassinatior

Records Collection Act of

2107 Notel.

Caseft:N 53199 Date:

06-07-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE : CABLE CONCERNING THE ARRIVAL OF HSCA STAFFERS HAROLD

LEAP AND EDWIN LOPEZ IN MEXICO CITY.

DATE: 07/21/1978

SUBJECTS : HSCA-TRIP

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPEI

LASSIFICATION : SECRE!

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PARI PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/04/93

COMMENTS: JFK12

: F4: 1993.08.04.11:16:39:870060

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10067-10440

NN 53199

DocId: 32348148

Page

• 1

---

## Page 2

LA

55/69/

CONF:

C/EPSTEG-I

SECRET

FRP :

STAFF

- 8

INFO:

ODPD-D,. VR; FILE, D/DCI.

DDD-4, CSRF, C/CI-4,

: C/OG/DMS, C/PCS.: C/PCS/LOC,

OLE: SA/D0/0,

(27/P)

1021394

$ PAGE

001:

2123542

JUL. 78

DIRECTOR

261323

NIACT MEXICO CITY:

106 04

4209 de

WNINTEL RYBAT

REFS:

A." DIRECTOR 224314 (NOT IN CDS, COPY SUPPLIED UPON REQUEST)

SOCCER. DIRECTOR 229921 (NOT, IN CDS, COPY SUPPLIED UPON REQUESTS

FIRMOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION INSCAS DEPUTY

STAFF. DIRECTOR GARY CORNWELL ACCOMPANIED BY HSCA STAFFERS HAROLD

LEAP AND EDWIN LOPEZ ARRIVING MEXICO CITY 24 JULY 1978 (VIA AA,

ETA 1245) TO CONTINUE INQUIRIES THERE.

POUCHING UNDER TM 126289

ENVELOPE CONTAINING ASCA MATERIAL:.: PLS HOLD FOR THEIR ARRIVAL.

2.

ISSUE OF DIRECT HSCA ACCESS TO AGENTS MAS CONTINUED

UNSETTLED, MITHOUT RESOLUTION.

DEI AND DOCI HAVE OFFERED ASCA

INDIRECT.RPT INDIRECT ACCESS, WHEREBY MEMBER OF INSPECTOR GENERAL'S

STAFF SERVES AS GO-BETWEEN, CONVEYING ASCA QUESTIONS TO AGENTS

AND AGENT REPLIES TO ASCA.

ACT AGS A PERILE THIS ISSUE ON CHELA UNACETAND HAS RECEIVED

MIS SUPPORT ON POSITION OF NO RPT NO DIRECT ACCESS WITH THE

UNDERSTANDING THAT WE WILL TRY TO DEVELOP PROCEDURE WHEREBY

ANSWERS TO HSCA CAN BE OBTAINED WITHOUT DIRECT CONTACT WITH

THERE IS TENTATIVE AGREEMENT IN PRINCIPLE TO UTILIZE SECURE

AGENTS.

TELEPHONE (OR OTHER VOICE COMMO) AND/OR CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION

WITH DARKENED ROOM TO OUSCURE DETAILS AND APPEARANCE OF AGENT).

NOLOCK TECHNICIAN TRAVELLING MEXICO CITY 24 JULY 1978 ON ANOTHER

MISSION, WILL BRING TELEVISION, EQUIPMENT.

WOLUCK SENDING SEPARATE

MESSAGE THIS SUBJECT:

ASSUME TECH WILL NEED ASSIST THROUGH

THIS EQUIPMENT BEING SENT TO SIMPLY ASSURE

AVAILABILITY OF FEASTELE SYSTEMS TE MORKED OUT WITH ASCA.

2.

CAPTAIN NILES R. GOODING CUSH, RETIRED), WHO NOW ASSIGNED

INSPECTOP GENERAL STAFF,

HAS BEEN SELECTED TO SERVE

AS GO-BETWEEN

FOR HSIA. HE WILL BE ARRIVING MEXICO CITY ON 24 JULY 1978 VIA

SETRE

Pres.

Carter

/ NW 53199 DocId:32348148

Page 2

6671

---

## Page 3

SECRE

STAFF

78:1021394

PAGE

002

TOT: 212354Z JUL 78

DIRECTOR 261323

BRANIFF

NO.

51.

ETA 1315 HOURS.

CAPT.

GOODING TRAVELLING ON

EITHER TOURIST PASSPORT OR

TOURIST CARD AND

WILL CONTACT COS

ON

ARRIVAL:

CAPT..

GOODING WILL WORK WITH STATION AND HSCA ON DETAILS

OF. INTERVIEWS.

HE IS FAMILIAR WITH THE LIMITATIONS ON HOW FAR TO

GO

WITHIN

AGREEMENT 'IN PRINCIPLE.

'IT HEADQUARTERS

INTENT TO

CONDUCT INTERVIENS IN HOTEL ROOMS AND REQUEST STATION

RESERVE

TWO 'ADJACENT RPT ADJACENT TWO-ROOM SUITES IN MODERATE PRICE HOTEL

FOR-PERIOD

24 JULY THROUGH 28 JULY.: CAPT. GOODING WILL OCCUPY

ONE OF THE SUITES AND RESERVATIONS CAN BE MADE FOR ONE SUITE IN

HIS NAME•

IF SUITES UNAVAILABLE REQUEST FOUR ADJOINING SINGLE

ROOMS THAT HAVE COMMON DOOR ENTRY BETWEEN ROOMS.

ALSO REQUEST

THAT STATION PROVIDE CASE OFFICER WITH DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT TO

ACT•AS TRANSLATOR AND ESCORT FOR CAPT.

GOODING:

3. MSCA DESIRES INTERVIEW FOLLOWING FORMER AGENTS: LICOOKY/1:

LITAMIL/T: LITAMIL/S; RAYMOND H. GERENDE (P); LIONION/S AND FORMER

UNWITTING AGENT LICHANT/1•

ALSO, FORMER CONTRACT AGENT EDWARD G.

TICHBORN (P) AND LIHUFF/1.

HSCA ALSO DESIRES INTERVIEW GENERAL

JOSE JESUS CLARK FLORES AND NOE PALOMARES, NEITHER OF WHOM HAD A

RELATIONSHIP WITH US ACCORDING TO MOS RECORDS.

WILL PROVIDE

ADDITIONAL DATA AND OTHER INFORMATION RELATIVE TO CONDUCT OF

INTERVIEWS IN SEPARATE CABLE.

•4.

REQUEST STATION ATTEMPT DETERMINE IF PERSONS MENTIONED

PARA 3 ARE STILL IN MEXICO AND ADVISE IMMEDIATE.

5.

SINCE CAPT. GOODING DEPARTING EARLY MORNING 24 JULY,

WOULD APPRECIATE IF YOU COULD PROVIDE NAME OF HOTEL AND

ROOM

NUMBER HE WILL BE OCCUPYING BY COB 22 JULY.

IF SUITE UNAVAILABLE

FOR 24 JULY, REQUEST.SINGLE ROOM AT BRISTOL OR GENEVE FOR

NIGHT

24 JULY.

6.

FYI:

SINCE WE ARE NOT RPT NOT AWARE AT THIS TIME IF

HSCA HAS COORDINATED THIS VISIT WITH STATE DEPARTMENT AND MEXICAN

GOVERNMENT, REQUEST COS ADVISE AMBASSADOR, INCLUDING TDY VISIT

CAPT. GOODING.

7.1

WILL ADVISE CONCLUSIONS REACHED WITH MSCA FOLLOWING

EARLY MORNING MEETING AT HOS

ON

22 JULY 1978.

IN THE MEANTIME

WOULD

WELCOME ANY STATION

SUGGESTIONS WHICH WOULD IMPROVE ABOVE

PROCEDURES AND CONTRIBUTE TO

BETTER OPERATIONAL SECURITY.

GEERET

HH 53199 DocId:32348118

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

STAFF

78

1021394

PAGE

003

TOT: 2123547 JUL 78

DIRECTOR

261323

E2: IMPDET.>

ORIG:. C/LA/STB (STURBITTS); COORD:

C/LA/MGSB (HAWKINS);

OLC. (BRECKINRIDGE): PCS/LOC (SHEPANEK): DC/LA/NR. (DESMOND);

AUTH:

: C/LA/STB (STURBITTS); REL:

C/LA (HARREN); CL

BY

12180.

END

OF MESSAGE

HN 53199 DocId:32348148

Page 4

---

