# docid-32273825

## Page 1

Released

under the John

r. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54545 Date:

10-12-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

Agency Information

AUENCY:

NARA

RECORD NUMBER : 181-10002-10213

RECORD SERIES: NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

9/22/201

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NARA

FROM: JACOBS, RICHARD A.

TO: FOR THE RECORD

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/12/1976

9

COORDINATION W/NSC STAFF RE REFERENCE SERVICE TO

SSCI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENTSTATUS: Withhold open

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

1 p. memo w/attached handwritten note (Ip) route slips; letter Miller to Rhoads 4/23/76; draft letter

Rhoads to Miller 4/16/76; route slips; letter Miller to Rhoads 4/13/76 1p.

v9.1

HH 54545 DocId: 32273825 Page 1

75

---

## Page 2

May 12, 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Subject: Coordination with National Security Council staff concerning

reference

service to the Senate Select Committee

After both letters from William G. Miller of the Senate Select Committee

staff had been received and Charles Corkran had estimated the quantities

of classified records that might be examined under this research request,

I made further efforts to contact Mr. John Matheny for White House clear-

grant access to the Senate Select Committee researcher, Mr. James

Johnston.

Matheny referred the question to Jeanne Davis of the NSC staff who appar-

ently asked Steve Skancke to make contact with me. In describing the

problem to Steve Skancke I stated that the research request involved

three topics:

(1) the assassination of JFK, (2) assassination attempts

on Castro, and (3) assassination plots on other foreign leaders. I

stated to Skancke that clearly the third subject was too vague to respond

to .

With respect to the first two subjects, I reported, the materials

that would be made available to the researcher amount to 20,800 pages or

3,500 documents.

are classified and these include materials from State, DOD, CIA, FBI,

Secret Service, NSC, and other White House originated. Therefore, I said,

we are talking

in the neighborhood of 1,800 classified documents.

Steve asked me what were the ground rules.

I stated that in earlier

requests of this kind coordinated with James Wilderotter we had granted

access to the committee staff researchers and had then filtered any

requested copies of classified documents through this office to Wilderotter •

for review before presentation to the committee. Skancke stated that such

a procedure is acceptable under the current request.

He further stated

that should the researcher attempt access to materials beyond these two

topics the NSC staff would like to be consulted before access is granted.

On this basis I responded to Skancke that I would proceed to contact both

the Johnson Library and Mr. Johnston to go forward with the research.

HH 54515 DocId: 32273825 Page 2

---

## Page 3

20,800 P.

6p/docs

3,466 doco

Egencies: Stale

DOD

CiA

FBi

Nse

wit

T's - cadewad

GENERAL SERVICES ARMINISTRATION

SPECIAL

GSA

FORM

JUN & 371

GPO : 1963-0-890589

GP 0 935-428

54545

DooId: 32273825

Page

---

## Page 4

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER; TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY. CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITI

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 94TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510-

April 23, 1976

Received NA-N

PR 26 19761

6 APR 197

DI. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National Archives and Records Service

Seventh and Pennsylvania Avenue

washington, D.C. 20408

Dear DI. Rhoads:

Mr. Johnston of the Committee's staff has talked with Mr.

Corkran

at the Lyndon B. Johnson library in Austin, Texas,

garding the material Mr. Johnston would like to review.

Corkran

suggested that we provide you with a more specific de-

scription of the material to assist you in obtaining White

House clearance for our access.

As Mr. Johnston told Mr. Corkran, he is interested in re-

viewing records relating to contact between the intelligence

agencies,

especially CIA and FBI, and the White House concern-

1ng President Kennedy's assassination or Cuban matters between

November 22, 1963, and January 31, 1964.

In addition, he wishes

to review records

relating to contact between the CIA

and FBI

and the White House concerning Cuban matters, the assassination

of President Kennedy, or assassination plots

against foreign

leaders

between February I and May 31, 1967.

We appreciate your assistance in this matter and desire to

obtain access to this material as soon as the necessary arrange-

ments can be

made.

Sincerely,

Willemorill

William G. Miller

54545

DocId: 32273825

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DRAFT: RAJ:nlt 4/16/76

Assistantin, Plans

Din. at Caster

'1.7

Techo Justinson

Mr. William G. Miller

Senate Select Committee

Dear Mr. Miller:

I have your letter of April 13, 1976 indicating a plan to send two

members of the committee staff, Mr. James Johnson and Mr. Dan Dwyer,

to the Lyndon B. Johnson Library to undertake research in certain

matters relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

Your staff members should contact Mr. Charles Corkran, Assistant Director

of the Lyndon B. Johnson Library, to discuss

in more specific terms

the quantities and subject relevance of materials in the Library

and any further specific requirements for gaining access.

I presume

that some of these materials are already open for research while

others remain closed because of security classification or donor restriction.

Your staff members may have access to the classified materials, but we

will require further coordination before permitting classified materials

to be copied and released to the committee.

If materials subject to donor

restrictions are encountered among materials to which you seek access,

your staff will be unable to use the

materials

unless

those restrictions

can be waived.

Sincerely,

JBR

WH 54515 DocId:32273825 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO

co

GENERÁL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION

ROUTING SLIP

R1

R2

R3

R4

R5

NAME/TITLE

R7

R8

CORRESPONDENCE

R9

SYMBOL

RIO

•GENERAL SERVICES AUMINISTRATION

SPECIAL

1.

3.

5.

ALLOTMENT SYMBOL

•APPROVAL

JAS REQUESTED

J CONCURRENCE

J CORRECTION

OFILING

D FULL REPORT

DANSE NOO

ON OR GENORE

PREPARE REPRE FER

THE SIGNATURE

REMARKS

NL

GPO : 1963—0-690563

871-782

GSA JUN & 371

HANDLE DIRECT

IMMEDIATE ACTION

INITIALS

_I NECESSARY ACTION

_J NOTE AND RETURN

• PER OUR CONVERSATION

•J PER TELEPHONE CONVERSATION

READ AND DESTROY

7 RECOMMENDATION

SEE ME

YOUR COMMENT

YOUR INFORMATION

FROM CO

NAME/TITLE

R1

R2

R3

R4

R5

R6

CORR. SYMBOL

TELEPHONE

R7

#U.S.GPO: 1975-0-585-714/107

R8

R9

R1O

TBUILDING. ROOM. ETC.

DATE

14-13-76

GSA JUN

EN M, 14

HH 54545 DocId: 32273825

Page 6

---

## Page 7

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN J. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

• PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY MART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DiRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

United States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

TUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WIT

ESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIE

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, J6TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

April

13, 1976

Received NA-N

APR 13 19761

DI.

James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National Archives and Records service

Seventh and Pennsylvania Avenue

Washington, D.C. 20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

The Select Committee is investigating certain matters

relating to the assassination of President Kennedy.

connection with this investigation, the Committee would

like to have two members of its staff, Mr. James Johnston

and Mr. Dan Dwyer, review material

the Lyndon B. Johnson

Library in Austin, Texas.

Both individuals have Top

Secret/Compartmented security clearances.

The Select Committee requests these two staff members

be given access to relevant material at the Library.

I

suggest they contact Mr. Middleton directly to discuss what

material they wish to review.

If they determine that the

Committee should have a copy of any of the materials, Mr.

Johnston will arrange for this at a later time.

Singerely,

Wileam 6. Mill

William G. Miller

HH 54545

DocId: 32273825

Page 7

---

