# docid-32310012

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 use 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10278

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1241

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

10/31/1963

'PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS:

SAM GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32310012 Page 1

272

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVA DIVISION

er 31, 1963

Informant is allegedly one of

the most influential Italians in

Chicago.

He is clerk of the Probate

Court and also Democratic Ward

Committeeman in the 28th Ward.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DocId: 32310012

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hoter

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-3 (Rov. 4-17-63)

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO &x TELETYPE

Tolson,

Balmen

Moht -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

eLoache

"Evans

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

DEFERRED

10-31-63

7:04 AM EH

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC,

CHICAGO

302130

ANTIRACKETEERING

SAMUELIM. GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

C6 6495-PE ADVISED THIS DATE THAT PURPOSE OF EIS CONPERENCE

TWO WEEKS AGO WITH TONY TISCI AS REPORTED BY CG 6576-CIWAS TO

INFORM TISCI THAT DECISION MUST BE MADE NOW AS TO WHETHER

INFORMANT WILL RUN FOR REELECTION AS DEMOCRATIC WARD COMMITTEEMAN

OF THE TWENTY-EIGHTH WARD, OR WHETHER SOME ONE ELSE WILLE POL

REQUESTED TYSCI TO CONTACT GIANCANA AND GET HIS DECISION

THIS. ON OCTOBER 29 LAST TISCI CONTACTED POI AND TOLD HIM THAT

GIANCANA HAD DECIDED THAT POI WILL RUN FOR REELECTION. NE

PCI ALSO ADVISED THAT HE ALSO REQUESTED TISCI TO TELL

GIANCANA THAT HE HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY TOP HOODLUMS JACK....

CERONE AND JOE GAGLIANO WITH A REQUEST WHICH POI TURNED DOWN.

PCI STATED THAT HE WANTED TO KNOW IF SUCH REQUEST CAME FROM

GIANCANA AND WHETHER SUCH REQUESTS WERE TO BE HONORED BY PCI IF

THEY DID NOT COME FROM GIANEANA THRU TISCI. TISCI THEREFORE

TALKED TO GIANCANA AND RELAYED TO POI THAT ALL ORDERS AND

REQUESTS FOR PCI FROM GIANCANA WILL COME TO POI THROUGH TISCI

AND THAT ANY OTHERS NEED NOT BE HONORED. PCI UNDERSTANDS

THAT GIANCANA REPRIMANDED CERONE AND GAGLIANO FOR DIRECT

APPROACH TO PCI: WITHOUT CLEARANCE FROM GIANCANA. THIS INFO

SUBSTANTIALLY CONFORMS TO THAT PROVIDED BY CONFIDENTIAL: SOURCE

TWO WEEKS AGO. V

RECEIVED:

8:14 AM

HL

151

REC-28 92-3171-1241

5 NOV

5 7 NOV 121983

DA /2484 Sesejs/Bur

1963

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310012 Page 3

---

