# docid-32292026

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIRICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10208-10302

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

45-10852-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO:

SAC. SI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/13/1968

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: SPANISH VESSEL "SS COROMOTO", EXPLOSION, DAMAGE AREA, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

04/06/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32292026; Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act-of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: I1-14-2017

TELETYPE TO SACS SAN JUAN, MIAMI

RE: UNSUB; EXPLOSIONS ON SPANISH REGISTRY VASSEL

WHETHER HE WAS IN PUERTO RICO DURING PERIOD SEPTEMBER

NING THROUGH TWELVE SIXTY EIGHT. AIRLINE RECORDS AS WELL

AS OTHER LOGICAL SOURCES OF INFORMATION SHOULD BE EXHAUSTIVELY

SEARCHED.

IN THE EVENT THIS VESSEL WAS NOT THE ONE NADE REFERENCE

TO BY GONZALEZ IN HIS CONVERSAZION WITH MIAMI SCURCE, INVESTI-

GATION SHOULD BE INTENSIFIED IN ORDER TO IDENTIFY THE

TARGET VESSELC (U)

COPIES MAILED NEW ORLEANS, MOBILE, HOUSTON, AND TAMPA

1 = New Orleans

1 - Mobile

1 - Houston

1 - Tampa

NOTE:

This concerns the most recent of bombings which

may be attributed to the anti-Castro Cuban power

led by orlando Bosch in Miami. The "SS Coromoto"ms three

miles at sea when the explosion occurred and seawater would

have flushed through the ballast tanks which were severely

damaged by the force of the explosion. It is highly im-

probable that laboratory examination on the scene would be

productive.

We are instructing San Juan to cover dry-docking

operations which are scheduled for 9/16/68 and Miami to in

tensify other phases of this bombing in order to either

associate it with others or to develop evidence which will

support criminal prosecution.

This was coordinated with the Laboratory Division.

- 2-

DocId: 32292026 Page 2

---

