# docid-32989516

## Page 1

File #:

-12- CV-2375

Serial Scope:

I thre 8

DO NOT

_NIA.

---

## Page 2

NRO74 WA CODE

8:42PM • NITEL 5-2-75 MSE

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENST UDY

75

CAPTIONED MATTER PERTAINS IO BUREAU'S HANDLING OF REQUESTS

FROM

SENATE AND HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEES TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL

OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. IN CONNEC-

TION WITH WORK OF THESE COMMITTEES, STAFF MEMBERS MAY SEEK

TO INTERVIEW CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

RECENTLY, THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) STAFF HAS

INTERVIEWED SEVERAL FORMER EMPLOYEES AND IT IS ANTICIPATED

THAT MANY MORE SUCH PERSONNEL WILL BE CONTACTED.

THE FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE COMMITTEE

AND WE WISH TO ASSISI AND FACILITATE ANY INVESTIGATIONS UNDER-

TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI. HOWEVER, WE

DO HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO INSURE THAT SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS AND ONGOING SENSITIVE INVESTIGATIONS ARE FULLY

OL

DEAD

SEARGHED 70_ INDEXED

SERIALIZED L

_FILED.

• THAY 2 1975

SARI CHEVELAND,

NW 54993

DocId: 32989516 Page 2

SCA

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

PROTECTED. SHOULD ANY FORMER• EMPLOYEE CONTACT YOUR OFFICE AND

HAVE ANY QUESTION REGARDING HIS OBLIGATION NOT TO DIVULGE INFOR-

• MATION OBTAINED BY VIRTUE OF HIS PAST FBI EMPLOYMENT, HE SHOULD

BE INSTRUCTED TO CONTACT LEGAL COUNSEL, FBIHQ, BY COLLECT CALL.

YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES MUST BE IN KEEPING WITH

OUR PLEDGE. IT IS BELIEVED SUCH A PROCEDURE WOULD INSURE PROPER

PROTECTION AND ALSO FACILITATE THE WORK OF THE SSC.

THE ABOVE PROCEDURE ALSO APPLIES TO CURRENT EMPLOYEES

OF YOUR OFFICE. HOWEVER, CONTACT WITH THE LEGAL COUNSEL SHOULD

BE HANDLED THROUGH THE SAC.

END

HOLD

NW 54993

Docid: 32989516 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TO

1973 EDITION

~ GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: ALL SUPERVISORS AND SRAS

SAC FREDERICK C. FEHI

DATE:

5/5/75

FROM

SUBJECT:

SENSTUDY 75

Captioned matter pertains to our office's handling of

requests from Senate and House Select Committees to study

governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities.

In connection with the work of these committees, staff members

may seek to interview current and former FBI employees.

Recently, the Senate Select Committee (SSC) staff has

interviewed several former employees, and it is anticipated that

many more such personnel will be contacted.

The FBI has pledged full cooperation with the Committee,

and we wish to assist and facilitate any investigations undertaken

by the committee with respect to the FBI. However, we do have

an obligation to insure that sensitive sources and

methods and

ongoing sensitive investigations are fully protected.

Should any

former employee contact our office and have any question regarding

his obligation not to divulge information obtained by virtue of his

past FBI employment, he should

be instructed to contact Legal

Counsel, FBIHQ, by collect call. Your conversations with former

employees must be in keeping with our pledge. It is believed

such a procedure would insure proper protection and also facilitate

the work of the ssc.

The above procedure also applies to current employees

of our office. However, contact with the legal Counsel should

be handled through the sAc.

- 62-Dead

- Each Supervisor

1 - Each

SRA

TJB: bma

(21)

63.2375-2

EARCHED -

-INDEXED.

SPIALIZED L

_FILED SE

MAY 5 1975

FBI - CLEVELAND

5010-110

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NN 54993

DocId: 32989516 Page 4

---

## Page 5

1RO36 WA CODE

PM NITEL 5-20-75 PAW

TO ALL SAGS

FROM DIRECTOR

(62-116395)

• PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY - 75.

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

* IN CONNECTION WITH WORK OF THE SENATE AND HOUSE SELECT

COMMITTEES, IIS REPRESENTATIVES MAY CONTACT YOUR OFFICE FOR

INFORMATION.

IN: ONE RECENT INSTANCE, A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE SENATE

SELECI COMMITTEE TELEPHONICALLY INQUIRED AS TO IDENTITY OF SAC

IN A PARTICULAR OFFICE. DURING 1978.

IN HANDLING SUCH INQUIRIES INSURE ESTABLISHING BONA FIDES

OF REPRESENTATIVE .BY SHOW OF CREDENTIALS ON PERSONAL CONTACI OR,

IF TELEPHONIC CONTACT, BY TELEPHONING BACK TO COMMITTEE.

UNLESS INFORMATION IS OF A PUBLIC NATURE, AS IN THE INSTANCE

CITED ABOVE, OBTAIN FBIHQ CLEARANCE PRIOR TO SUPPLYING ANY

INFORMATION. FBIHQ MUST BE EXPEDITIOUSLY ADVISED OF ALL

INFORMATION FURNISHED. X

PLS RETURN TO TALK

NW 54993 DocId: 32989516 Page 5.

62-2375-3

EARLIE ZILES

TAAY?: 1975

FBI - CLEVELAND

How appip fan.

---

## Page 6

TO

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: ALL SUPERVISORS AND SRAS

DATE:

5/21/75

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY - 75

In connection with the work of the Senate and House

Select Committees, its representatives may contact our office

for information.

In one recent instance, a representative of the senate

Select Committee telephonically inquired as to the identity of

the SAC in a particular office during 1970.

In handling such inquiries, insure establishing bona

fides of representative by show of credentials on personal

contact or, if telephonic contact, by telephoning back to

committee.

Unless information is

instance cited above

information.

FBIHQ must be expeditiously advised of all infor-

mation furnished.

62-2375222

- Each"

Supv.

#1, П2, ПЗ, 74, #5, +6

#7, #8, #9, #10, Night

1 - Each SRA Akron, Canton, Elyria, Lima, Mansfield,

Painesville, Sandusky,

Toledo, Youngstown

TJB: bma

(21)

uplicate copies destroye

62-2375-4

SERIALIZED =

MAY '1

FBI - CLEVELAND

01975

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plas

5010-110

NW 54993

DocId: 32989516 Page 6

---

## Page 7

1ROZ3 WA CODE

5:39PM1 9/4/75 NITEL AJN

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR (62-116395)

PERSONAL ATTENTION

SENSTUDY 75,

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

PURPOSES OF INSTANT TELETYPE ARE TO (1) REITERATE THAT

FBI HAS PLEDGED FULL COOPERATION WITH THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) AND WISHES TO ASSISI AND FACILITATE ANY

INVESTIGATIONS UNDERIAKEN BY THE SSC WITH RESPECT TO THE FBI;

AND (2) SET FORTH NEW PROCEDURE RELATING TO SSC STAFF

INTERVIEUS OF CURRENT AND FORMER FBI EMPLOYEES.

FOR INFORMATION OF THOSE OFFICES WHICH HAVE NOT PREVIOUSLY

HAD CUFRENT OR FORMER EMPLOYEES IN ITS TERRITOY INTERVIEVED

BY THE SSC, THE BUREAl! FREQUENTLY LEARNS FROM THE SSC OR

OTHER"ISE THAT FORMER EMPLOYEES ARE BEING CONSIDERED FOR

INTERVIEM BY THE SSC STAFF. INSTRUCTIONS ARE ISSUED FOR THE

FIELD OFFICE TO CONTACT THE FORMER EMPLOYEE TO ALERT HIM AS TO

POSSIBLE INTERVIEW, REMIND HIM OF HIS CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

WITH THE BUREAU AND SUGGEST THAT IF HE IS CONTACTED FOR

setting out afree.

62-2375-5

(SEP : 1975

I-CLEVELA

triden

NW 54993 DocId: 32989516 Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE THO

INTEVIEW, HE MAY CONTACT THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION 3Y

COLLECT CALL FOR FURTHER INFORMATION. IN THE 'SUAL CASE,

AS CIPCUMSTAICES UNFOLD, THE FORMER EMPLOYEE IS TOLD(1)

THAT HE HAS A RIGHI TO LEGAL CONSEL, BUT THAT THE BUREAU

CAMNOI PROVIDE SAME; (2) THAI THE BUPEAU HAS WAIVED. THE

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT FOR THE INTERVIEW WITHIN SPECIFIED

PARAMETERS; AND (3) THAT THERE ARE FOUR PRIVILEGED AREAS IN

KHE RELATING"90 FRAURRAPIO& ANSCE MAYESTIO"DENTIFS BOREAG

SOURCES; (B) REVEAL SENSITIVE METHODS/TECHMIQUES; (C) REVEAL

DENTITIES OF THIRD AGENCIES, INCLUDING FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE

AGENCIES, OR INFORMATION FROM SUCH AGENCIES; AND (D) ADVERSELY

AFFECT ONGOING BUREAII INVESTIGATIONS.

HERETOFORE, BUREAU HAS OFFERED INTERVIEVEES CONSIILTATION

PRIVILECES WHERERY A BUREAU SUPERVISOR WOULD BE AVAILABLE

NEARBY, ALTHOUGH NOT ACIUALLY AT INTERVIEW, SO INTERVIEWEE

MIGHT CONSULT WITH HIM. SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE AS TO PARAMETEPS

OF INTERVIEW OR PRIVILEGED AREAS. THE CONSULTANI DID NOT ACT

AS A LEGAL ADVISOR.

EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY, BUREAU WILL NO LONGER POVIDE

NW 54993 DocId: 32989516 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE THREE

O:!-THE-SCENE PERSONEL FOR CONSULTATION PURPOSES TO ASSIST

EITHER CURRENT OF FORMER EMPLOYEES. PROSPECTIVE INTERVIEWEES

SHOULD BE TOLD THAT, IF THEY DESIRE ASSISTANCE OF THIS NATURE

DURING AN INTERVIEW, THEY MAY CONTACT EITHER PERSONALLY CIF

INTERVIEW IS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.) OR BY COLLECT CALL, THE

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, MR. W. R.

WANNALL, OR, IN HIS ABSENCE, SECTION CHIEF .W. O. CREGAR.

THIS CHANGE IN PROCEDURE SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS

LESSENING THE ASSISTANCE WE ARE FURMISHING TO CURRENT AND

FORMER EMPLOYEES.

FOR YOUR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, I AM WORKING WITH THE

DEPAPIMENT IN EXPLORING AVENUES TO ARRANGE LEGAL REPRESENTATION,

WHEN NECESSARY, FOR CURRENT AND FORMER EMPLOYEES WITHOUT

EXPENSE ID THEM. YOU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENIS

IN THIS REGARD.

END

RJB FBI CV CLR

PLS RETURN TO TALK

L

URCIZNHJOAYSLOQ I

NW 54993 DocId: 32989516 Page 9

---

## Page 10

OFTIONAL FORM NO.. 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

ALL SUPERVISORS AND SENIOR RESIDENT

AGENTS (62-2375)

DATE:

9/12/75

FROM

SAC CHARLES R. MC KINNON

SUBJECT:

SENSTUDY 75.

By nitel dated September 4, 1975, the Bureau set

forth new procedures relating to interviews of current and

former Bureau employees by the Senate Select Committee (SSC)..

In the above reference, the Bureau advised that the FBI has

pledged full cooperation with this committee and also desired

to set forth a new procedure relating to committee staff

interviews of current and former FBI employees.

In the past, the Bureau has frequently learned

from the committee or otherwise that former employees are

being considered for interview by the committee staff. Upon

learning of these proposed interviews, the field office is

instructed to contact the former employee to alert him of

the possible interview, remind him of his confidentiality

agreement with the Bureau and suggest that if he is contacted

for interview he may contact the Legal Counsel Division by

collect call for further information.

The prospective

interviewees should further be told that if they desire

assistance in the form of consultation with the Bureau

during interview, they may contact personally (if interview

is in Washington, D.C.) or by collect call to Assistant

Director of the Intelligence Division, Mr. W.R. WANNALIi,

or in

his absence, Section Chief W.O. CREGAR.

The above consultation procedure replaces the

previous consultation procedure whereby a Bureau supervisor

would be available nearby during the interview, although

not actually.at the interview.

By referenced nitel, the Bureau further advised

that in the usual interview, the former employee is told

(1) that he has a right to legal: counsel, but that the Bureau

cannot provide same; (2) that the Bureau has walved the con-

fidentiality agreement for the interview within specified

i - SAC.

Saarches

1

- ASAC

1.- Each

Supervisor

1 - Each

Senior Resident Agent

V)

Sariulizi?=

indexeu

CRM/c10

(20)

Filed

62-2375-6

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 54933! Docid; 32989516

Page 10:

---

## Page 11

CV 62-2375

perimeters; and (3) that there are four privileged areas

in which he is not required to answer questions..

These

greas are (a) information as to the identity of Bureau

sources ; (b)

information, which may reveal sensitive

methods/techniques; (c) reveal identities of third agencies,

including foreign intélligence agencies or information from

such agencies; and (d) information which may adversely affect

ongoing Bureau investigations..

Additional information regarding this. may be found

in Bureau teletype, dated Máy 2, 1975, contained in instant

file.

2

NW 54993 DocId: 32989516 Page 11

---

## Page 12

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

SULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

62-

SAC, CLEVELAND (66-2375)

Supervisor LEROY C. DAVIS

SENSTUDY 75

DATE: Nov. 11, 1975

committee.

Mr. PHILLIPS stated that the last address the Bureau had for

KEMP WaS:

Attorney at Law, Home Bank Building, St. Marys, Ohio.

He

added that KEMP had previously been an Agent in the Birmingham

Office

and that his testimony would probably deal with his handling of a for-

mer Bureau informant by the name of GARY ROWE, JR.

of his possible testimony before the Church Committee.

He added that

12, 1975.

He stated that if KEMP desires guidance, he should contact the

Bureau Legal Counsèl by collect telephone call. If KEMP is no longer

residing in St. Marys his whereabouts should be ascertained and fur-

nished by telephone to the nearest field office covering his present

address, advising that office to contact KEMP in regard to this matter.

Mr. PHILLIPS requested that a nitel be directed to the Bureau

advising of the contact with KEMP and whether or not KEMP desires

Bureau assistance or would be contacting the Bureau Legal Counsél.

SA JOSEPH T. MANN of the Lima RA, which covers St. Marys,

Ohio, was advised of the above and instructed to carry

out the Bureau's

request with regard to attempting to contact Mr. KEMP.

LCD-jmc

(2)

63-2375=

SFARCHED

SERIALIZED"

ACE FILED_

1111

NOV: * 1975

-CLEVELAN

1тm

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 54990110

DocId: 32989516 Page 12

---

## Page 13

{R:36 Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

PLAINTEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

11-12-75

(Priority)

002

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-116395)

FROM

CLEVELAND (62-2375) (C)

SENSTUDY 75

PMT

REBUTELCALL TO CLEVELAND, 11-11-75.

BARRETT G. KEMP (FORMER SPECIAL AGENT WITH THE FBI) WAS

CONTACTED AT HIS PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT, ST. MARY'S OF OHIO, AND

ADVISED POSSIBILITY HE MAY BE SUBPOENAED BEFORE SENATE COMMITTEE

CHAIRED BY FRANK CHURCH. KEMP STATED HE WOULD SEEK LEGAL COUNSEL

FROM FBI LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION IN NEAR FUTURE.

END

FILE 1I85

MW 54993

Aproved: ERM|*

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32989516

Page 13

mann

#y95018961

Filed.

62-5375.8

- Sent 6:00 PM

Per 870

U.S. Government Printing Office: 1972-455-574

---

