# docid-32319142

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10368-10276

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-872

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: BAUGH

TO: COYLE

TITLE :

DATE: 05/02/1995

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/17/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32319142

45

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

•DATE:: 11,14-2017

Memorandum

Elta thomas.

Dep. Dir.

3%

ADD Adm.

ADD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Info. Mgnt.

Insp.

Intell.

To

Mr. Coyled

IpO

Lab.

Legal Coun

Date

5/2/95

Tech.

Servs.

Training

cong.

Affs. Off

Off. of EEO

From

William

E.!

Baugh, Jr.

Off. Liaison &

Int.

Affs.

Off. of Public Affs.

Telephone Rm.

Subject :

Director's Office

LAURA DENK

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

REQUEST FOR UNESCORTED OFFICIAL VISITOR BADGE

PURPOSE: To request the Security Programs Manager (SPM) to

approve

unescorted access to the JEH Building to Laura Denk,

Assassination Pecords Review Board (ARRB). Upon favorable

adjudication, recommend that the Security Unit issue an official

visitor SACS

badge to Ms. Denk.

RECOMMENDATIONS: 1. That the SPM adjudicate favorably and allow

unescorted

access to the JEH Building6 21 440-1029205-874

That the Security Unit issue a SACS badge upon a

favorable adjudication by the SPM.

See Add dam

page 3

.: (27-40-1029205

2 - Mr. Coyle, Room 6012

(Attn :

i2" - Mr. Walsh, Room 4370

Mr. O'Hanion, Room 1127)

(Attn: Ms. Moland, Room 4370)

1 - Mrs.

Keeley, Room 6712

CLK: clk (6)

si Addenden p.3.

DocId: 32319142 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

- DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum from William E. Baugh, Jr., to Mr. Coyle, dated 5/2/95

Re:

LAURA DENK

ASSASSINATION RECORDS REVIEW BOARD

REQUEST FOR UNESCORTED OFFICIAL VISITOR BADGE

DETAILS: Laura Denk requires a SACS badge with special access to

Room 6712, where she will be reviewing records relating to the

assassination of former President John F. Kennedy.

She will need

access to Room 6712 on a daily basis, to review original FBI

files, beginning 5/2/95 and ending approximately 24 months later.

Ms: Denk was born in Lawrence, Kansas on 8/7/67, social security

number 509-82-4982.

Ms. Denk is an analytical person assigned to the ARRB.

Her clearance at the Top Secret level was passed to

Cheryl Hilliard, FBI Security Office on 5/1/95. If for any

reason a

SACS badge is no longer required, the

SPM will be

immediately notified.

The point of contact for this individual is

Carol L. Keeley, FBI JFK Task Force, Room 6712, Extension 4-9465.

2

DocId: 32319142

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USe 2107 Note).

•RATES 11-11-2017

Memorandum from William E. Baugh, JI., to Mr. Coyle dated 8/2/95

Re:

Laura Denk

Assassination Records Review Board

Request for Unescorted Official Visitor Badge

ADDENDUM: SECURITY COUNTERMEASURES SECTION (SCMS)

NATIONAL SECURITY DIVISION (NSD), 5/4/95 FEB: feb

The Security Programs Manager (SPM), SCMS, approves the

request for an unescorted Official Visitor Badge for

Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB), employee Laura Denk,

DOB 8/7/67, POB Lawrence, Kansas, SSAN 509-82-4982.

Ms. Denk

will be reviewing records relating to the assassination

of former

President John F. Kennedy.

Ms. Carol L. Keeley, Extension 9465,

is the point of contact for Ms. Denk.

On 5/2/95 and 5/4/95, appropriate FBIHQ record checks

were conducted

on Ms. Denk by a representative of the

Industrial/Facility Security Unit (I/FSU), SCMS; no derogatory

information was disclosed.

on 5/2/95, a representative of the SCMS verified that

Ms. Denk has the appropriate clearance, term certified for a

period of one year, to be granted unescorted access to FBIHQ and

to be granted access to classified material up to and including

Top Secret.

It should be noted, barring additional changes,

Ms: Denk's clearance certification will expire 5/2/96, prior to

which time it will have to be recertified for her to continue to

have unescorted access to FBIHQ.

It is requested that Ms. Keeley return Ms. Denk's badge

to the security Unit,

Personnel Division, Room 1127, at the

completion of her assignment.

Ms. Keeley should also notify

Ms. F. Brice, I/FSU, SCMS, Extension 6875, when Ms. Denk no

longer requires access to

the J. E. H. Building so I/FSU records

can be updated accordingly.

APPROVED:

Director

Deputy Director.

Crim. Inv

Crim. Jus. Into.

Servs._

Finance_

Gen. Counsel

Into. Res.

_Training

Inspection

_ Office of EEO

Affairs

National Sec. a

_ Office of Public &

3

DocId: 32319142 Page 4

---

