# docid-32186713

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

walt.

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10244-10423

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

89-69-1328

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

65

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 62-109060-3930

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/11/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32186713 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-108 (Rer. +1-39)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTINO OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

11/22/63, DALLAS, TEXAS

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/10/64

9/24/64 - 12/7/64

HEPORT MADE DY

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

TYPED DY

REFERENCES:

Report of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, dated 10/21/64,

at Dallas, Texas.

-P-

LEADS:

All leads In this case have been set forth by teletype

or airtel and are not being restated herein.

By Bureau airtel to all SACS and all Legats dated 10/6/64,

all offices were instructed to forward Inserts and/or FD-3028 to

Dallas in the future in order that Dallas could submit the reports

in captioned case.

+ 18/94

SPECIAL AGE

IN CHARG

ON 5-11-93

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

PROVED

COPIES MADK:

Bureau (62-109060)

New Orleans

(09-09)

san Antonio

(89-67

4

- Dallas

189-

MASS

D BY.

2040

EXEMPT FROM ODS, SIREGORY IT

DATE OF DECLASSIHICALON

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOR

(Info)

(Info)

-Sulliber D

NOTATIONE

ABDACY...

REQUEST RIED.

DATENWO.....

HOW FWD. ...

itir

Tielite

limite

20 UD

A DEC 11

29-69-1328

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USt 210% Trote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 89-43

SA

89-67

on October 16, 19648 HERBERTO SPIDOLA. Secretary

to the Mexican Consula San Antonio, Texas, advised the

San Antonio office of

the

Federal Bureau of Investigation

that ar unknown French male, listing his home as Morocco,

to make an appointment

to speak with the consul

((u)

On the morning

October 16, 1964, this individual

came to the Consulate

and spoke with the librarian, who made

an appointment for this man to speak with the consul at

$1:00

domo on that date

This man

said he had some information concerning LEE HARVEY

he wanted to pass on to the Mexican Consul General

(u)

According to the librarian, this man was

dressed

in a uniform, but she did not know what sort of uniform it

was o

The man had left his name written on a small note pad

but his writing was

illeg

Die, and no one had been able to

determine his identity.

-(u)

The following

investigation was conducted by Special

Agent JOHN V. KNUDSON:

AT SAN ANTONIO TEXAS:

On October 17, 1964, JOSE INES CANO, Consul General,

Mexican Consulate, 127 Navarro Street, advised that MOHAMED

LAKHMIRI was presently in his office and stated he wanted

political asylum in Mexico because he feared to state any

of his political views here in the United States

15o CANO advised that he feft LAKHMIRI was mentalls

and needed psychiatric attention

(u)

Mro CANO further advised that on two previous occasions

he had received letters from LAKHMIRI written in the French

(u)

43

89-69-1328

DocId: 32186713 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2

DI 89-43

SA 89-67

Language.

In the first letter, LAKHMIRI mentioned the name

of OSWALD in a very nebulous way. In the

second letter

LAKHMIRI again mentioned that he was destined to play a role

mike the OSWALD role

Mr. CANO further advised that both

letters were rambling and made very little sense.

While

LAKHMIRI was at the Mexican Consulate, CANO suggested to

him that he talk to a representative of the United States

Government.

According to Mr. CANO, LAKHMIRI refused to

talk to any represesentative of the United States Government

because he feels that everyone in the United States and

everyone at Lackland Air Force Base is against him

(и)

On October 17, 1964, MI. BILLY HO CUNNINGHAM,

Special Agent, Office of Special Investigations, Lackland

Air Force Base, advised that records at Lackland Air Force

Base reflect that MOHAMED LAKHMIRI is an aviation cadet with the

Moroccan Air Force, Number 4070 MOR, on Special Orders 152

at Lackland Air Force Base, dated August 31, 1964, to train for

fifteen weeks in language training and fifty-five

flight training

Mro CUNNINGHAM furnished the following

description which was

stained from the records at Lackland

Air Force Base:

(u)

Date of

birth:

1939, no day of month shown

Place of birth:

Not indicated

Height:

5 fto 8 ino

Weight:

154 pounds

Hair:

Brown

Eyes:

Browno

Medical records at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas,

according to Mr. CUNNINGHAM, reflected on September

29, 1964,

LAKHMIRI went to Wilford Hall Hospital, complaining of poor

sleeping habits, pain in his throat,

and difficulty in

breathing

A note on these records

indicates the patient

himself said he would like to stay in the hospital a few days

"because I don't sleep very well."

89-69-1328

DocId: 32186713 Page 4

---

