# docid-32305080

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10210

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-652

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/02/1964

4

LCN, ASSOC, INSTAL, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32305080

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-nu. Kelly

64015-64

JUNE

SAC, Philadelphia (92-1027 SUB As B)

REG. 18

Director,

FBI (92-6054)

-1057

LA COSA NOSTRA

AB

MAILED 8

JUN 5 - 1964

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

svans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

a Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

, Re Philadelphia airtel 6-2-64.

Provided full security assured, authority granted

to use plan outlined in re airtel to survey and; i1 feasible,

install nisur coverage at 900 and 902 South 8th Street,

Philadelphia.

Promptly advise Bureau when misursis installed

and synbol numbers assigned.

This authority is for a 30-day

period from date sources activated.: Submit weekly airtel

summaries of significant information obtained fron these

sources.

The Newark Office should nake available to the

Philadelphia Offlce a sound trained Special Agent to assist

in the installations.

Philadelphia Office make the necessary

arrangements by directly contacting the Newarls Office.

NOTE: PH 672-C-TE, a top level informant of the Philadelphia Office,

is an admitted member of La Cosa Nostra (LCN) who has an exceptional

potential to furnish quality information.

With the permission of

Angelo Bruno, head o1 LCN in Philadelphia and a member of the

"Commission,

I Ct is opening a luncheonette at 900 south oth ste:

Philadelphia. He has been assured by Frank Monte and Frank Narducci,

both known members of ICh, that they would frequent his establishment

once it opened.. Next door to the luncheonette at 902 South 8th st.

is a barber shop used by Bruno and his associates on a daily basis

as a meeting place.

echelon informant has been informed that he will be provided with

men to assist in painting and doing other preparatory work in making

luncheonette ready to be opened. These will be two sound trained SAs

who

will make installations, if

feasible." CI will notuknow sas

assisting him are connected

with the Bureau and will not be presentat

the time they are in the luncheonette. Philadelphia Office has b

assured CI will have no knowledge of

installations. Philadelphia

requests the assistance

of one sound trained SA from outside their

division to assist since two of the three sound trained SAs in Phil.

The potential of the misur coverage

are known in this neishhorboth these locations to iurther penetrate

2. - Nevark

ICN appears to be outstanding.

Recommend the

1

M.

F. Row

Philadelphia Office be approved

1

- J. D.

Donohue.

TBI Laboratory

JEK: dIn

Flectronics Section

(9)

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNITI

ÓUTE IN ENVELOPE

* 110

DocId: 32305080

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DEB: 1781-1144226917

FBI

Date:

6/2/64

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

MAYROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, PHILADELPHIA (92-1027 SUB A & B)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR

JUNE

Re Philadelphia airtel 5/28/64 in captioned matter

and Bureau letter to Philadelphia

dated 6/2/64.

Re Philadelphia communications proposed that two

Special Agents, whose identities would be unknown to

PH 672-C-TE, render assistance to this informant in preparation

for opening a luncheonette at 900 South 8th Street, Philadelphia,

Pa. It was proposed that these agents, under previously

explained pretext, could, with complete security, install

microphone coverage at both 900 and 902 South 8th Street,

Philadelphia.

It is pointed out that there would be no security

problems involved in this endeavor.

There would be no

compromise of the Bureau's confidential techniques.

Re Phila-

delphia communications pointed out that if any breach of

security developed, the installation would not be made.

The installation would be made by the two sound

men whose identities would not be known to the informant.

The informant, with the assistance of ANGELO BRUNO, Commission

member and head of Philadelphia family of LaCosa Nostra,

employed as a truck driver working from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily

Accordingly, he would

be present while coverage was

being effected.

+: 60546521

3 - Bureau (92-6057)(RM)

1 - Philadelphia 192-1027 Sume

JRP : EMR

7169

( 4)

18 50 li

C C= Wick

1 JUN & 1964

IS 2S1640

000 1

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32305080 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-"

PH 92-1027 SUB A & B

In addition, accompanying FD142 re coverage

proposed at, 900 South oth Street, under item #9, pointed out

that both FRANK MONTE and FRANK NARDUCCI,

both known members

of LaCosa Nostra, have promised source that they would

frequent this luncheonette if he was successful in opening

It was also pointed out that this luncheonette is

in the area most frequented by LaCosa Nostra members and

it would be the only luncheonette in this area where the

proprietor himself is a member of LaCosa Nostra.

It should not be overlooked that this source would

be extremely valuable in checking on the veracity of the

confidential informant involved.

It is believed that these reasons would indicate

that coverage of 900 South 8th Street has a high potential.

In addition, it is pointed out that coverage at

902 South 8th Street has extremely high potential inasmuch

as it 1s a known and established fact that ANGELO BRUNO

uses this location almost on a daily basis to hold meetings.

It is explained that the informant will not have

knowledge of the fact that microphone coverage will be

utilized in either 900 or 902 South 8th Street.

His employ-

ment is such that he will not be present.

He will not know

the identities of the agents with whomhe is dealing.

Philadelphia has deliberately developed this

situation, telling the informant that it would be advantageous

for him to have the luncheonette to show as a legitimate

income, considering that he is on probation in both Phila-

delphia and Montgomery Counties, Pa.

He has been advised

that the contacting agent would help him make preparations

for opening the luncheonette by obtaining the services of

individuals, who have not been identified to the informant,

in painting and making other necessary preparations for opening

the luncheonette.

It has been considered that 902 South 8th Street,

Philadelphia, would be the most advantageous position to

obtain microphone coverage known to this division, inasmuch

as ANGELO BRUNO meets his criminal associates at this location

on a daily basis.

-2-

side metin?

DocId: 32305080 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027 SUB A & B

It 1s further noted that PH 672-C-TE should be

a drawing card to the luncheonette and it is anticipated that

this luncheonette will become

a meeting place in the

neighborhood. ANGELO BRUNO'S

place of business is less

than

200 yards from this location.

Philadelphia, accordingly, requests that authoriza-

tion for microphone coverage at both

900 and 902 South 8th

Street be reconsidered. Time is of the essence in this

It is requested that the Laboratory, provided

authorization is granted by the Bureau, immediately forward

to the Philadelphia Division a Minnimite suitable for

penetrating a wall.

In addition, a Minnimite that would

secreted in the

housing of a public telephone which is

to be installed in the rear roam of 900 south 8th Street,

where the luncheonette will be located. It is felt

that these types of installations will afford security and

will not be available for inspection by unauthorized

telephone personnel.

It is noted that the Minnimite or other

microphones suggested by the Laboratory will be in an area

where voice volumes will fluctuate; consequently, it is

requested that equipment be provided, if available, that

has an automatic volume control.

-3-

Sitin" is

DocId: 32305080

Page 5

---

