# docid-32287027

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10303

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1022

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/16/1962

4

THP, MISUR, MEETING, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287027

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: -11=14-2017

FD-142112-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile"..

SECISI

JUNE

DATE:

CONFIDANTIAL

SAC, CHICAGO

4/16/62

SECRET

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATTONOR INSTALLATIONE TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

ATT. INTORMATION CONTAINED

HERDIM IS UNCL/ ESTYUEN EXCRES

ANAND SHONN OOPER 14000

RE: Title

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

CHICAGO DIVISION

Character of Case

A-R

Field Office

Chicago

Symbol Number

CG 6546-C*

1-T-94

Massifer buSPY

Mac/ende

Type of Surveillance:

-(Technical or

37

Microphone)

Microphone

Declassify au: DADNTFR

A CONF. INFT.

1.

Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

celano custom Tallors.

meeting place of Chicago Top Hoodlums

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

620 North Michigan Avenues.

•Chicago, Illinois;

2nd floor fitting room

7-2-97

3. Location of monitoring plant:

9/22/98 Mile

[Chicago. Öffice]

8) (5)

"CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUD/KSR

DECLASSIPY.ON.23X

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

(JFK)

3/16/62; authorization

4/15/62; Installation

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject. (with dates and places):

Celano Custom Tailors, 620 N. Michigan Ave.,

5/29/62

Armory Lounge, 7427 W.

Roosevelt Rd., Forest Park, Ill., 8/61

6. If installation is a technical survétilance answer following questions:

Not applicable

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

REG. 72

a beasts

62-9-9-1077

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard??

11 APR 18 1962

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

CONFIDX

1-Bureau (RM)

1-Chicago

WER : MDW

16

(2)

Repotend M9t12

athan bit

DocId: 32287027 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released/under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Novey

DATE: 11-14-2017

• .

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

SECRET

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone unit installed behind baseboard of pillar in

Celano's fitting room.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

NO

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved:

(Add insert pages)

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency ):

No

I4. Cost of Plant Premises:

8. Pontal coote for plant promos: None plant Located in Ca rele

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Four other surveillances and 13 other lines.

"....

SECRET

- 2 -

X

DocId: 32287027 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

working at plant and total salary costs.

5 Special Employees

$39,265.00 per annum

1 Special Agent

11,935.00 per annum

(CP only)

4 Special Agents

34,850.00 per annum (Polish only)(S

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 Special Employees - 200 hrs. or 100% of total work week

1 Special Agent

- 30 hrs. or 75% of total work week

4 Special Agents

- 120 hrs. or 75% of total work

wEek

c. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

Not applicable re this new installation

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

N.A.

17. Remarks (By SAC):

SECRET

-3 -

DocId: 32287027 Page 4

---

