# docid-32330964

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10054

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-92704-60

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/22/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

HH 53074

9

DocId: 32330964

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

September 22,, 1961

Re:

Moviniento Revolucionario Del rueblo

VENZUE

NY T-I, who has furnished

is associated with the Movimiento

Revolucionario Del Pueblo (MRP, an anti-Castro organization

in the United States and Inside Cuba, advised on September 18,

1961, chat: there had been an understanding reacheabetween AKA

Mao had Ben Font oven ron Havana,

announced that Manuel Ray had been

of the MRP,

Ny T-l stated that this information had been

furnished to him on September 11, 1961, and he was Instructed

to notify

members of the MRP' in the New York area of the

agreement now existing between Ray and Mendoza. NY T-1

stated that Mendoza 1s

commonly known by his war name of

"Rufe 08s

NY I-I stated that he had been informed that the

MRP. waS

again active in the underground inside Cuba and

their activities would be increased in the 'immediate future.

NY. T-l stated that Manuel Ray may shortly go to Puerto Rico

to visit with Governor Luis Munoz Märin and to Venezuela

to see President Romulo Betancourt, both of whom are

favorably disposed toward Ray and

who have in the past

offered him financial and material assistance.

NY I-2, who has fürnished rellable Information in

the past and who is well connected with leading anti-Castro

organizations and leaders,

advised

that he spoke with Manuel

ago and at that time Ray was not certain of his future

difficulties which he had with the National Directorate of

against

the present Cuban Government or would go to Puerto

Rico and there take a job which had been offered him by.

Governor, Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico.

105-92704-60

ENCLOSTIT?

NW 53074 DooId: 32330964

Page 2

---

