# docid-32333483

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90107-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

2

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : MEMO, INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32333483

64

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Beleased under the John F., Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

SECRET

The above (code name has been assigned tol a Cuban (5]

a zen whose activities are being directed against the CubanCS

intelligence service (CIS). This Cuban alien was requested

y (CIS to obtain information concerning the activities and LS_

operations of an anti-C

tro organization in Miami, Florida,

known as COMANDOS L.

Through various cont

ng information was obtained SeCu

and activities, the follow-

There was a meeting on August 14, 1967, at 9:00

a.m. at the Miami Colonial Hotel for the purpose

reporting on a measure which was being taken

to obtain the release of ZALDIVAR and CUESTA.

The following were present:

EDGARDO DIAZ, MARIA

GOMEZ CARBONELL, MANOLO CASTANEDO, RAUL GRAMAGES,

MARTINIANO ORTA and ALFREDO GOMEZ.

The last is a

leader of the Committee of the 100, an organization

which is trying to obtain the release of 100 Cuban

political prisoners. Steps are being taken by this

Committee in Bolivia by JORGE ROBLEJO to try to

exchange REGIS DEBRAY for 100 or more Cuban prisoners.

It has turned out that when the Bolivian authorities

saw the list of the possible Cuban prisoners who

would be included, they wanted ZALDIVAR and CUESTA

to be put on the list.

This was what Mr. GOMEZ

wanted to report to COMANDOS L, in order to see

if

they knew that this was being done and if they:

wanted this effort to be continued. Apparently a

telegram sent by CUESTA's daughter to a Bolivian

Senator had resulted in this Senator requesting

that CUESTA and ZALDIVAR be included on the list

ot prisoners who would be exchanged for REGIS DEBRAY Ul

requested that clearance be granted for the Cubana

•(5)

alien to furnish this data to CIS.

This information should

not be disseminatess cla

121/83

18-80

Deci

5668

CLASS

DATI

7-11.87

51068-540/nde 2/13/98 JFK

CLASCINED BY 5668500/GCL

(07(6)

Do

10/2827

ded fron Automate

ENCLOSURE

105-11722.2-

SECRET

DocId: 32333483

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy.

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

D LODEN

CLASSITISS BY 56685L0/GCL

1 10/0

97

2/15

88

CLASSIF

D BY

DECLASSIFY

The above code name has been assigned

whose activities are being directed against the

Service (CIS) This Cuban alien was requested by CIS to obtain(s

castro organization in Miami, Morida, linov as COMApos i

information concerning the activities and operations of an

Through various

Information was obtained: tacts and activitles, the followins

On Friday,

August 11, 1967,

the leaders of Comandos

L met at y:00 p.mat

the Miami Colonial Hotel for

their monthly meeting.

The following were present:

ALFONSO RUIZ, Dr. MARIA GOMEZ CARBONELL, MANUEL

CASTANEDO,

EDGARDO DIAZ, EDUARDO BAEZ (military

chief), RAMON FONT (former military chief), Mrs.

CARIDAD TRUJILLO, MrS. BLANCA DE ABRIL, Mrs. BLANCA

VILLA, ANGEL PARDO JIMENEZ, and some other dele-

gates.

The main subject was whether or not a

representative from the organization should be sent

to the meeting which was going to be held at the

YMCA the following day, under the sponsorship of

AGRUPAMIENTO CIVICO, Which is headed by JORGE MAS,

JOSE IGNACIO RIVERO, ERNESTO FREYRE, CARLOS MARQUEZ

STERLING and others.

The purpose of this movement

is to unite

the Cubans in exile in order to wage

war on Cuba. At the meeting, it was agreed that

COMANDOS L would be represented by DIAZ and RUIZ

(it he could attend, since he had a previous

engagement) and by ANGEL PARDO JIMENEZ. They would

attend as observers only, since this was another

attempt to unite the Cubans, but there war

little

hope that it will be effective.

U)

It is requested that

Cuban alien

be granted] for the (5]

to furnish this aata to els

12 - 18-80

1:T

DATE Or

9128.7

SECRET

lassited to 413

Group

Beluded from Automatte

grading and bestassification

0/21183

Stbs-SLD/ndC. 555-9586571

SFCRET

- 1* -

ENCLOSURE 105-117222-

DocId: 32333483

Page 3

---

