# docid-32301654

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10489

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-225

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 08/11/1965

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, ACA, ASSOC, MEETING, CUBAN CLUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

NH 45881

1

DocId: 32301654

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• 54,22-64)

F B I

Date: 8/1J/65

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

SAC, TAMPA (105-374) (P)

MOVIIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE /RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS - CUBA; NM

(00: MM)

'ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 118/85

BYSPE

9/6/95

5468SLD/GAT

(SFK)

ReMMairtel to Director, 6/29/65, enclosing LEM.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 12 copies of

an LHM dated and captioned as above.

Copies of same are being furnished locally to

ONI, OSI, G-2, Ft. McPheason, IME, Orlando, INS, and Secret

Service,

Tampa, U.S. Customs, Tampa.

Eight copies are being furnished to Miami in

the event that office desiresto disseminate to the Co-

ordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department of State, CIA,

Coast Guard, Customs, U.S. Border Patrol, and INS.

TP T-1 is

PSI

Daban

-Club,

Tampa.

Te 1-2 18 B1 19 52-5.

bookkeeper of the

LHM is classified "Confidential"

Bureau

2

3

- Tampa:

WEO: Cj

(8)

inasmuch as it contains information

(RM)

=.80-139).

from TP T-1 and TP T-2, sources of

continuing value, the disclosure

of which might compromise their

future effectiveness,

Copy to: CIA/Stato/RAO"/DIA/Customs/ USCG/Rin

ONI/OSI/ ACSI

Secret. Son Batey Ros (c).

by routing slip for into.

12-1/7/225

Date...

8118/65 bolta FUST

NICH

-X 105 €

AUG I3 1965

3, Approved:

265965

Special Agent in Charge

SE, EVERSE

ISSEMINATION.

ABD-

WEN

OTHER 4

H₩ 45881

DocId: 32301654 Page 2

---

## Page 3

r

BONFIDENTIAU

-

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

Angel Gutierrez, representative of Movimiento

Revolucionario

30 de Noviembre 730th of

November Revolutionary Movement)

Di. Jose #o Suarez, president of the Marti Club.

TP T-l advised that the Cuban Club facilities

tilized by another anti-Castro group on July 4, 1965, Were

which time there had been a telephone call advising of a

bomb placed in the building.

This necessitated police search

of 'the building which resulted negatively.

However, in

view of this, the directors of the Cuban Club had established

a policy not

to make their facilities available to Cuban

groups unless

the majority of local groups petitioned the

group.

For this reason, according to TP I-l, the long

list of delegates on the petitioning letter were set forth.

He pointed out, however, that this list included primarily

those organizations who met with or were closely associated

in Tampa with the CACALC.

On Argust 4, 1965,

TP T-2 advised that-Dr.

Orlando Boschavila, head of an anti-Castro revolutionary

organization of Cuban Exiles known as the MIRR, was

planning to visit Tampa from August 12 - 14, 1965.

private meeting is scheduled on August 12 at the office

of CACALC, which is the residence of Enrique Someillan,

representative of the MIRR in Tampa. This meeting will be

'for the purpose of organizing the program for a public

meeting to be held Saturday, August 14, 1965, at the Cuban

club in lampa., It is planned at this time to show movies

of the attempted sabotage of a Cuban vessel, "Arecelic

TP T-2 stated that approximately 10 to 12 persons

are expected from Miami and a group from Orlando, Florida

are expected to participate although they are not officiall

recognized delegates of the MIRR.

TP T-2 furnished the following list of individuals

who are expected to attend the meeting, August 14, 1965:

-2.

CONFIDENTIAL

C. 113,4

NW 45881

DocId: 32301654 Page 3

---

