# docid-32336071

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90131-10039

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83195-81

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 05/22/1961

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

REINALDO PICO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/30/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32336071

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

NICAU OF

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

105-3902

Miami, Florida

May 22, 1961

Re:

Cuban Situation

:3/10/95 5668 Sa GAT

JFK

It is to be recalled that on April 17, 1961,

an unsuccessful attempt was made by anti-Castro Cuban

exiles under the general leadership of the Revolution

ary Council, of which Dr. Jose Miro Cardona is President,

to liberate, Cuba from the Commnist regime of Fidel Castro.

Fidel Castro publicly announced that his forces had cap

tured approximately twelve hundred men of the liberation

forces who landed at Bahia de Cochinos (Bay of Pigs).

-

At 6:40 a.m. on May 20, 1961, Mr. Jules Dubois,

Cor the les, a Head to been Mials do the at e:00 a.m.

that day, he received a long distance telephone call,

collect, from Havana, Cuba. He recognized the caller

as a friend of his, Ulises Carbo, who had been taken

prisoner by the Castro forces at

Carbo told Me. Dubois that he and nine other prisoners,

all captured at the

same place, were being sent by plane

to the United States by Fidel Castro as a committee of

ten to negotiate with the United States Government for

the exchange of United States tractors and bulldozers

for the prisoners captured during the April 17th

liberation attempt.

Carbo mentioned that this was the

plan which Castro had revealed during a speech the pre-

ceding night in Cuba. Carbo told Mr. Dubois that the

ENCT

HH 54046 DooId:32336071 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re: Cuban Situation

did not possess information concerning their specific

schedule.

On May

P2, 1961, MM T-2 and MM T-3 advised

that on May 21,11961, Reinaldo Pico Ramon had told

hem that Fidel castro, in discussing the exchange o1

invasion prisoners for five hundred tractors and tei

buses, indicated that Cuba, for its own utilization,

did not find it urgent to have the tractors; however,

the possession of such tractors by Cuba would make

It possible for Cuba to liquidate certain economic

obligations with Commmist China. Pico indicated

that he felt that Castro intended to export from Cuba

to China the tractors received.

Both MM I-2 and MM T-3 have furnished reliable

information in the past.

PROPERTY OF THE FBI--This memorandum is

loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its

contents should be distributed outside the agency

to which loaned.

HH 54046

DocId: 32336071

Page

3

---

