# docid-32329577

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90086-10234

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-76294-36

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/20/1965

30

JOSEPH STEIN

FRANK A. BLOSSER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HW 45959

DocId: 32329577

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-163 (Rev.5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

втою отука

CHICAGO

TILE OF CASE

OFFICE ON ORIGIN

DENVER

FRANK A. BLOSSER,

HONE INDUSTRIAL BANI,

AURORA, COLORADO

DATE

1-20-65

ESTIGATIVE PERIOO

8/29/64 - 1/18/65

ORT MADE BY

SA CARLTON H. MOLFARTE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITSP; AR

TYPI

aft

se

REFERENCES:

Chicago letter to Bureau dated 11/9/64.

Chicago airtel to Indianapolie dated 12/17/64. (19%)

Report of BA JESSE L. ORR dated 1/4/65 at Denver.

-P -

LEAOS

st?

'INDIANAPOLIS AND MILWAUKER - INFORMATION

Copies of this report have been designated 105

Milwaukee Inasmuch as there may be a request

1 posable additional lavestigation in these oftices.

and

telephone credit

• card number of FRANK A.

tain toll calls made by BLOSSER for period February, 1964,

May,

1964

APROVID

PECIAL ACERE

N CHARGI

COPIES MADE,

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELON

87176294-1

36 REC6

(copies on 11 page)

1 To 5 no tola

/Bureau (87-16294)

i 6 4 MAR 12 1965

Diesemination Record of Artached Ropor

Agonay

Request Reed.

Date Fwd.

How ud.

NW 45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 2

iLt r

4

---

## Page 3

?.-

5D-308 (Roo. 1-88-40)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Doro Meramber 30, 1981

On

by

On November 24, 1964,

3452 Chapel Drive, Tolado, Ohio,

appoared at the Chicago

Offico of the FBI and Suralahed the following information

which ho requested be maintainod on a confidential

basis.

It 18 to be noted the following dot: lorth: 1n

information furnished byl

verba tun.

It 1a to be further

noted that in furnishing this account appeared

to ramblo on aimlessly; howaver, he vas attempting to

furniah information as to the lacts as they happoned.

It will be further noted that

• bora

July 11, 1923,

1s marriod and the lather or four children.

He has an extensive educational background, having

attoaded and graduated fron Emerson High School, Gary,

Indiana; Bl1as Blectrical Engineering Collego, Takona

Part, Maryland; and tho University of Texas Collogo of

Bnglnooring.

He 18 a registered professional engineer

and vas formerly an Ensign in tho United Statos Naval

Reserve iron which he vas honorably dischargod:

"I went to work for kaighin and Hughes in

Лидивь, 1961,

a8 Vico President and Director of the

Company,

In 1962, I bocano the Assistant to the

president, WOYD LUCHES, There vero tuo owners,

LLOYD HUGHES and KENYAICHIN. Thia uas a Toledo, Onto f1r».

In July, 1962, I recolvad a call from a man

by the Dane Of HARRY N. BANK O1 Bovorly 81lls, Callforais,

uho statod ho was a financior and could financo the

desiga and building of composting plants, and mould ne

come out and seo bin for thero projecta.

There would

bo 12 of then.

I went out and while talking to his,

I had learned just a wook or so prios, there had boon an

argument bOtHoen XEN KAIGHIN and WOYD HUGHES in which

LOYD HUGHES statod ha would buy out KENT KaIGHIN. Ho

Bald 18 LLOYD HUGHES then bought out KENT KAIGHIN he would

own the stock. I sald that 1s correat.

Ho said could

no then buy the company and l stated,

•Yes you could.

You would oun 100 por cant of the stock."

So ho identified

bIa ASSOCIAtO aS SANUILLPIVAR Of 111 John Stroot, New York,!:

!

11/24/84

a8.

Chicago, 11112018

_ File !

137-3316

11/24/84

_ Dato dierared

so illne

laldo yous gaesas

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

CG 137-5316

2

an attorney, both of whon stated that they were the people

who had just bought and leased back Harrah'g Club in Reno

and had nado a comm1ss102.

Ve ran a Dun and Bradstreet

on both of the gentlemen and at that time it looked very

good. Mr. PIVAR showed a $1,250,000 net worth. Mr. BANK'E

Potty sod dealso a overber 2, 1362, the purist o 500 Colf

pretty good deals.

On November 2, 1962, the purchase of

corporation that they had called corporate Resources, LTD.,

another friend of wine that I convinced to buy in vas

this J.V. SHARP for 24 per cent. J.W. SHARP has been a very

close friend and associate of mine since 1956 and I have

done engineering and design work for him on cement plants. Canada

He ig the President of a steel company, a min worth about

3100,000,000. He 15, 958ociated with FRANK and GEORGE SAC WARN

of Vancouver and JOHN DAVIDSON of Los Angeles and Calgary, whos

combined net worth A5 in excess of $1,000,000,000 so they.

Boo beretta the loyal an a so one the ales

Board of Directors of the Royal Bank of Canada.

my say, they bought 25 per cent of the stock and I was trustee

of the

balance.

He then invited the list of nen that you

ohio

Not.

wash,

Vice President of Carnation Milk, JAMES pOUette, Mio lus

President of Spsce Needle at Seattle World's Fair and on

the Board of many banks and mutual lunds and a shopping center

expert; and Major General PARRAND. Major General

FARRAND 18 retired

trner Connanding General of the Third Army

Do the rate present one neral tary Academy.

Division,

4.5.A,

During this perlod of time at the company, HARRY W

BANK introduced to me in April: 1963, in his Los Angères pffice,

Of JANES VInCKSON and too other

Crit

shopping center in Tulsa, Oklahona and ve could have the job 11

no gave them $50,000.

refused their deal and turned then down.

N.

/

!.

-

Cover Page

NW 45959 DocId: 32329577

Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 137-5316

Then Mr. PIVAR demonstrated that ve could buy a company

In Los Angeles that would return about $1,000,000 to us,

which purchase we went ahead with.. HARRY W. BANK WAE

to be the 11nancier, which he did not do. Ho this led

to a fight between the purchasers and the sellers.

Then

1 June, 1963, I received a telephone call from C.V. DEATON

of Dallas, who said that JAMES JACKSON said that they

had purchased the ownership of the French Pavilion and the

World of Food Pavilion at the New York World's Fair

and would ve be the contractor for them and that they would

finance the job. Funds in Bscrow frow various exhibitors vere

turned over to then in trust because in some wanner they got

to be the officers off the corporation.-Their attorney at

N

that tiMe was GEORGE MONAHAN, fOrmer Conmissioner of Police

of New Yock aits The three of then undoubtedly were out

to fleece the exhibitors. He didn't know this at the tine

but the money in trust was turned over to then and we sere

called in again to examine the prints and agreed we would

do the job at cost plus 10.

"Whilo there was a light between the purchasers and

the sellers, Mr. HUGHES net with Mr. DIATON in New York City

and they discussed Mr. DIATON buying Kaighin and Hughes

and Mr. HUGHRS ass satisfied... I left the decision entirely

up to him because you could see as trustee and President

of the company, I was getting in the middle of about three

or four groups.

Mr. HUGHEs stated that he would sell to anyone

who had the money. Mr. DATON gave three checke:100,000

one in the

amount of $109,000 and two totalling $250,000.

was the deposit on the purchase and $250,000 was the down paynent

on the purchase of Kaighin and Hughes. While I was out of town,

I got a telephone call from the office and learned that the checks

had bounced.

We got hold od DIATON and JACKSON and we ran

a chock on them lumediately. DIATOR, Me could find nothing

about at all, uxcept that he was carrying with him a letter on

• Bank at Nassau stating that he had a line of credit of

$1,000,000 and vas an officer of this bank. On JAMES JACKSON,

we learned that he bad served a term for fraud in the state

of Florida or Georgia. I'm pretty sure it vas Florida. So, ne

-

Cores Page

NW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 137-3316

Immediately broke off relationships with these projects but

they had us in pretty bad shape on the World of Pood Pavilion

because ve had let some subcontracts 8o, and ve learned that

they money in escrow had disappeared.

The FBI was called into

I know that for a lact some of 1t went to

JOHN MONAHAN, the former Commissioner of New York City

N.

Polfce Department, because he was the Trust Oficer for

the Turds.

to bot to take part in 1t.

Thes this brought

the warfare between the group that I represented and LLOYD

HUGHEs out in the open because they said, "You are interferring

with the operations of the company and behind ous' backs tried to

sell to people we didn't want." DEATON And JACKSON professed

complete innocence and stated that JACKSON had received a pardon

and had established a new 11le so to speak. So, on September 13,

1963, things becamo unbearable.

I went into consulting practice

and did roasonably well.

I continued testifying, 11gting and

representing the purchasers, and it was taken before the Federal

Court.

Mr. HUGHss had confession notes so he lunediately had

judguents and ve coutered with a counter suit for $5,000, 000 and

a bearing was hold and it was stated that we had grounds for

our case so the judgments were set aside and the fight was on.

BOrEBANK and pOweRs couldn't have and didn't cone up with their

share of the expenges. Mr. SHARP, who had very ittle to do

w1th Kaighin and Hughes, came up with $25,000 cash bond to the

court to support the fact that we mere people of substance, paid

the legal fees and he put qut about $50,000 cash and said that

ho wanted to get rid of BANK and PIVAR and anyone else in the mess

and lets get out of this.

He sculed se of very poor judgment

and he was right. He threw ne a couple of bones to work on as

an engineer, one of which was & cement plant, and I was ablet

make the ends meet, hat it was close.

In about April, 1964, I received a call from JAMES JACKSON

Iron Tulsa, Oklahona.

learned since then it vas actually

Betheny, Oklahona, which is a suburb of Tulsa. He asked se

what I vas doing and I toldhin I was a consulting engineer and

taking on clients. He professed complete disassociation with

DEATON and said he wasshow the Chief Mortgage Officer for

Columbia National Life Insurance in Tulsa and that he lived

Cover

Page

NN 45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 6

---

## Page 7

C

co 137-5316

1n Oklahoma City ard the main offices vere in Tulsa. He asked

Me 11, in My design and enfineerlee, I cane astoBs

that needed financing. I said obviously overy project needs

financing in some forh. He said, "Mould you pass then 1n front

of us?"

I said,

"Well, I would need to know more about your

company and hin big 1: 18". He said he was going to send the

data but he didn't.

I/I•

In My,

copferenco cali.

SORONERS,

75 Bast, Wacker DEive

NT. JACKSON BaId'HI. POWERS represents a client who 16 v1111n8

to hire you for your se-vices concerning a steel aill."

MT. POWBRB lid the elking and asked we 1f I would take on the

client and I sald I would be happy to. They discussed my

qual1f1catlo28 and I waB eccerted and paid $2,000 a month.

The contract was signed on May 7, 1964.

In a few days after

that they brought in a gentlenen by the name of HABRY ESPENSCHIED,

President of Forth Mest Construction Company of Rockford,

Illinois, and they stated that they wanted me to work for him as

—a consulting engineer and he would pay ne $1,000 a month

and I would help hin obtain constretion contracts. This then

gave ne $3.000 a month incone, so I had the world by the tail.

The first project that came up was the Gary Park Tower, Inc..

and I learned that the financing was connitted to JAMeS Jackson.

Thef Mr. BILLINGBLEY becare interested in some of the projocts

that I had, and I wrote a memorandun to hin describing the

Jobs I had worked on and that I would be going on during the year

and they annunted pretty ciose to $100, 000, 000 worth.

This made a lot of people very interested.

Mr. POWERS said that

1t I would work with hin he would handie the litigstions in

Toledo for $25,000. I didd', kave this money, nor did the

purchasers,

which were BANK ind PIVAR. SHARP washed his hands

of the whole matter.

They said li i would work with their people,

they would pay the legal expenses on the light, continue with my

fee, and I would receite a bonus on each job.

-9

Cover Dege

NN 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 7

---

## Page 8

(

CG 137-6316

of the people giving us equity and construction, providing

we could finance.

He took me down for coffee and said he would

like to give

me the background. The background was in two

phases; 1.

"Do you know who I am?" I said, "No, I do not."

He said, 'I am the attorney of one of the attorneys for the

syndicate and they have control of banks and insurance companies.

The banks

and insurance companies are very real and very

clean and there 18 nothing irregular about Khem at all. I

would like you to meet my partner." GUID

FIDANZI appeared and

he was introduced as POWERS'

partner. "He

dold me that whatever

he got Mr. FIDANZI would get

half of it, and they could assist

me in this program.

I said, "Well, lets make 1t understood

now, the person I don't want to do any business with is Mr.

JACKSON. I'*e had a very bad experience.

I don't know Mr.

N,%.

FIDANZI or you, Mr. POWERS, but I would want to check you out,"

They said, "Anytime anything doesn't look right, you can leave

and

you can move into my office at 75 Bast Hacker."

The y

put my name on the door of POWKRS' office and I noved 1n.

-

The second phase was that be had to describe to ne

the reason for certain people being in the picture.

The story

was so complex that I truthfully cannot repeat it to you so

I will tell it to you as I believe it to be.

DRATON and JACKSON appeared on the

scene with some

.**.

securities of proported that they could obtain some securities,

from which they could borrow a very sizeable sun of money

which would increase the net worth of North West Construction

Company considerably.

MI.

To do this they would need $60,000.

BILLIKGSLEY called Mr. ESPENSCHEID and gave him this story

any as unbelieveable as 1t 18, Mr. ESPENCHEID did not bring

a check but he came with $60,000 in cash and they sat him in

a motel Ioom.

Present at the meeting was HARVEY POWERS,

in Denver. I never did meet him. The meeting had something

-I -

COVER PAGE

WH 45959

DocId: 32329577 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 137-5316

7

to do with the securities being carried by DEATON and sonothing

to do with the Denver Bank.

Two socurities appeared and,

althout the advice of Mr. POWERS, the $60,000 wag handed to

Mr. DEATON.

Also at this same time, $70,000 was paid by

Mr. ESPENCHBID to MI. BILLINGSLEY for stock in a mining

company that would pay in gold or reclain gold. They spoxe of

having another processing systen that vould nake steal very

quickly and they showed se the data. I told them 1t was not

a steel producing formula at all, 1t vas merely a nix that you

put in a blast furnace that would speed it up.

HI. ESPENCHEID

clained that he had been bilked of a $130,000. C.". DEATON

disappeared 1n five minutes and was driven to the alrport

by BILLINGSLEY and left with the money.

POWERS, being there,

offered his services to Mr. BSPENCHIID to collect the money

for 25 per cent of what he collected and he brought in GUIDO

PIDANZI as the man able to collect 1t.

They kept putting

off Mr. EBPENCHXID stating that he would büild the Gary Project

and the shreveport, Louisiana Project.

I felt sincerely that

he would be given the opportunity to build them.

They clained

that because of the moneys involved that originated fron the

Byndicate in Chicago, they had to keep JACKSON in the pot,

but the money always came Iron ESPINCHEID, who 1e very cleas

businessman.

So they must have had a third dealing which I

didn't know about and that JACKSON is and has been notified

over the phone concerning. The deal was that he was to pay the

$60,000 back to POWERS.

In August, they said they would introduce ie to a man

who had access to 16 actuaries or insurance companies and

another nan who had access to banks.

The man who had the 16

Ictuaries was GUS RUBINO whóm I didn't know.. He appeare

on the scene with a man who vag hig chauffeur, BILLW DAUBER.

That evening they asked no to have dinner with them and they

introduced me to their banker, CHARLES YORK, whose brother they

claimed was the President of an lnsuranco company 1n Indianapolis,.

and said that Kr. YORK was the President of a

bank at

Mascoutah, 1ll1n01s. At dinner when they got to feeling pretty

N.L

Colo

-

-

COVERPAGE

HW

45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 137-5316

8

good, they were telling we that, YORK had sade a

uistake at the Bank of Mascoutah and vas close to a Federal

Indictment.

They said he hadabout four houng to get out

and he had gotten out by getting somebody to buy the stock

of the bank. In August I went to POWERS and agked hin who

these people vere.

I said I didn't like the looks of 1t

this 1s strictly legitimate because I will be handliag the

money and it comes iron your, biggest insurance companies. T|l.

How an you go wrong?" He said, "He will introduce you to

principals."

So they loaded me in a car and took ne down

to 645 North Michiran Avenue to the office of the Firsty: /erri

National Morygage Company and introduced we to JOBIPH 3TEIN. U.5 A.

Present at the meeting were FIDANZI; DAUBER; RUBINO, STEIN:

another gentlenan iron STEIN'& office, LEONARD STALLMAN; CHABIN:

YORK; and myself. They vere talking about ap lip nattu! BILblAGaLE

wake some checks good. They wanted to know If they could handle

any projects where they could get the 10 per cent fees. They

said they have a very good plan and asked ne to leave the room.

So I left the room and they vero taling for about an hour.

When they came out they drove we to Wheeling, Ill1no1s, to

251 Bast Dundee Road, where I not a gentlenan by the name of

BOB PERRILL. The said that he was a man worth 82,500, 000

and

was very successiul in obtaining flnancers.

They said they

don't touch anything for loss than 10 per cent down. I said,

"If I don't get the noney for them or the loan, what happens

to the 10 per cent?" They said, 'Ve got the lon." I said, "Okay.".

Bo FIrRElL was put on the Board and they incorporated. Actuilly

we vere in business lor a couple of veers,

but doing nothing.

Te really started about the widdle of Beptember, and

we had sootings in FERRELL'S OffiCe with DAUBER and FIDANZI

and POWERS being present.. Bom after there was a falling out

between POMKRS and FIDANZI over a large sun of noney that was

theoretically handed to POMERS to be transported to a gentlonan

-K-

COVER PAGE

HW

45959

DocId: 32329577

Page 10

---

## Page 11

CG 137-5316

by the name of lilo

of lt got there and

he balance didn't.

$5,000

to no that they had two people 1n klaal pick up akIaz and

tako bia to a notel roon and lot hin make one phone call to sonoone

in New York and that soneone

• 1n New York called Chicago

before, they stopped whatever they were going to do to his.

FIDANZI got on the phone in front of ne and got pOlERs on

the line and said, "You have t1l uidnight to come up with my

half of the money, which 18 $12, 500, of I'll got you".

It say have been true as HARVY POWERS did disappear.

I later

heard that he hid out in BILLINGBLSY hone 1n Z10n, Ill1no1s.

He approached BILLINGSLEY's home at 2:00 in the morning

with a :45 and said that ho vas 1a troublo. BILLINGSLEY,

being a religious fanatic, brought his in and had a prayer sooting

"to work together and have everything come out..

They then

considered ne as an outsider because I was loft at World Wido

and it ended up where everything flopped over to where I was

with FIDANZI, RUBINO, and FERRILL and on the otherside vas

POMERS and BILLINGSLEY. lach vere calling the other sanes

and I wanted to find out who I mas to take orders frow, BOB FARRELI

said, "I have been instructed to tell you that I work for one

family and there is another laully, but we are connected through

we here, and you will be in a new concern that we are going to

build up."

I said, "Toll that sounds very alce but who aro

the principals?"

He said, "I will take you to then."

ade a trip to Denver,, Coloriado

and no vent to the offices of

the Mational gocurity haventuent Company and I vas introduced

to Miss VIOLA ORENDORER, Mia Vat Prubiyent;

and her fianco;

Hexes

And as office in Miami, and thoy had. just put through a 827, 000, l0 1.

deal fron which a tronendoug anount of noney had been made.

There was something peculiar about the funding of this committ-

wont whth they did not discuss but said that they "handled

Fla.

it through a very large insurance company in Tulsa where they

owned the vice president.", This was my first indication of the

tlo up of Miami, Dallas, Denver and Chicago.

_(-

COVER PAGE

45959 DocId: 32329577

Page 11

---

## Page 12

CG 137-5316

10

At dinner that evening; BOB FERRELL gots drunk

real quick. and talks.

And at that timo, when everyone left

BOOTHBY, "We want to tell BOB that

tie taportunities are indy want to confira to him that you

and I are brothers."

BURT seoned to be quite startled by it

and he said, "No, no BURT, BOB has to be one of us and you have

to toll him, no vant to identily each other."

BURT 6810, ''Yesh,

BOB, 1n a Manner Of speaking, no are brothors."

I returned to Whaling and they started handling or

PrOCessing

these packages; each Job 18 called a package, and

ve cancelled sone of the packages which BILLINGSLSY WAS 10

default of.. They called BILLINGSLSY up and said the denver

package can be handled in Denver and ne will get you a

committment but 1t •ill cost you $25,000, So he came up and a

contract was prepared and they asked so to sign 1t, which I

did.

He paid $25,000 cash and in three installments..

Chined that in essonco he was buying back his own deal but

he nas logally and rightlully in delault.. When I had gone to

Denver, I vent with a gentleman by the name of AMERMAN of

Bhopping Center Utilitles, Inco, 369 Lexington Avenue, HU 2-7130,

New York, a legitinate business nan. . The Denver, Tower people

IT I

Introduced se to & Mr. ROY HARMON, JI., President of Harmon and

Beckett, a very legitimate businessman, and the owner of this

tallest building in the world and he asked no 11 I had any

association with a fellow by the nane of BILLINGSLEY, Of

HOHARD SCHAAD, and JOHN BIRDSELL.

I said, "Yes.

I worked with

then as a consulting engineer." He said, "Well, BIRDSELL:

and SCHAAD were involved 1n a 375,000 fraud 11 Denver and BILLINGBLSY

1s a part of them, and we are going to void our cortracts.

I said, "I an with another Denver Company and they can finance

1t, which is National Security..

Bo they cancelled the author-

1zation to POMERS and worked with a man 1n Denver and FIDANZI

went fanatically madi; about it.

That is when DaUBER told ne

"Has it dawned on you yet that the warfare between POMERS and

FIDANZI 1s put on, and that actally POWERS is with BILLINGSL&Y

and that is how FIDANZI and POMERS can control BILLINGSLEY:

This way they have wilked by threat or promise of contract,

Over $250,000 IrON BILLINGSLEY.

_ m-

•COVER PAGE

HW

45959

DocId: 32329577

Page 12

---

## Page 13

CG 137-5316

11

225: 11=

In the forastion of Norld Wide when we opened

Wingen.

1p the offices in the midale of september,

between DAUBER and POMERs about money due him, so they broked they

422 Madison Avenue, New York, ROBERT TERRELL, and a fellow by

'To had a land

Jan sent to us Iron a company called Hone and Commercial

Corporation in Newark, New Jersey, and an OWEN MiDdLes, contacted

me, through the efforts of MORRIS LANDsMAN, for a legitimate land

loan.

They vere developing a complete subdivision and they

had plenty of collateral but they had no cash. They could

provide the guarantees and they wanted to borrow only $325,000.

Bo. ve told then put up $32,500 and nould get the loan. RUBIiO

olled a gentlenan by the naue of DONAROBATs at Jangas alty

who had arranged to send a dummy credit deposit of $600,000

Mo:

to a Utah Bank who would issue the 8325,000 loan for six per

cent. I asked hin how can you use a credit deposit of that type

to arrange that kind of a loqn and he said, "Well these things

are done, and don't worry about 1t." So I called OMEN MIDDLES

and explained to ba that I don't particularly like this uay

of raising money. An hour later I was called on the carpet

and was told that I made too many phone calls, and I trusted

too many people, and I talked too wuch and that this man

owed 332,500 and he botter get it in because me are going to di

pay $325,000.

I said, "Well, I like to know how but I won't

talk any

'nore." I later learned that OMFNVARDDLES, 18 to receivo

back 2 per cent of the 10, so he wust hayo been part of the

arrangement.

Then I received a package called Pocono Downs Race

and they wanted to borrow

I had no say of

Iinancing it and was going to give it back and say I couldn't

G. Ke

I!!.

_N-

COVER PAGE

NH 45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 13

---

## Page 14

CG 137-5316

12

handle 1t, because I had not looked, at the plans or made any

вигтеув од 1t.

I told them that I was going to send it back.

Dey gave me the word I shouldn't send it back, that they

couldhandle it, and they had a way of funding it and would

send it through the Denver Office of National Security.

From Denver 1t went to Dallas and it is now in the Dallas Offico.

A fellow by the name of MESSINA called ne fron New York, and

said he was a principal at Pocono, and 11 we put it through

would there be a percentage on the concessions and programs.

I said, "Who are you, Mr. MISSINA?"

He said, "I'm a princtal"

1n a very gruff voice.

I said, "Hell, I don't see your name

on the list of principals." He said,

"Lets just say that I'm

a principal and I have other people handling it for ne." About

"a half hour later I got chewed out by FIDANZI.

In October, apparently they sad the projects that i

had coming and they were all excited so then it became a question

as to who was to run the operations. They had signed this contract

with Mr. BILLINGSLEY and I learned that they had collected

$25,000 and I don't belleve more than $2,000 of 1t got into the

bank. I had been to Denver with BOB FERRELL and net the

Denver people and then I net JOB STEIN and they agreed that

STEIN "ould help u8.

There was dissengion between FIDANZI,

RUBINO, and DAUBER.

So on a Saturday in October, I got a telephone call

froM GUS RUBINO and he said, "Can you work with we?"

I said;

"Yes. I'm World Wide Mortgage, sò if you can get mortgages,

yes." An hour later I got a call fron FIDANZI and he sald

GUS RUBINO was out and, "Will you work with ne?"

I said,

"You fellows don't seen to understand this,

but this is a

"Well the man decided that RUBINO is out. I said, "Who's the

мад?" He said, "Never mind."

Then DAUBER got on the

and using very vile language said, "Nell 1 was at GUg' house

Hw 45959 DocId: 32329577

Page

14

_ 0.=

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 15

CG 137-5316

13

when you told hin you would nork with hiu."

I Bald,

"I'» World Wide Mortgage and I will nork with those people that

can perform in the Ileld of Iinancing."

"I know where I have

the projects."

and i don't kaon don't knon BUBINo."

"I don't kow FIDANZI

you, " About this time no question was 1n

uy mind what I vis gettine mysol! 1sto.

I sa1d, "I would

like to talk to the man and before I 80 any further, I vant

to know what I'm getting isto."

He said, "Well, can you

quietly sneak into Chicago, but don't you tell FIDANZI

I 'n aTTanZinE 1t."

So I came 1n Sunday morning on the 8:00 plane and only

RUBINO was thero. He took no in a car and I said, "Who an

"I go1ag to seo." He said,

"I don't use names. You are neeting

a man by the nano of JIM." Do I vatched whore me vent and we

went to 10309 Bouth laramie, and I vent 1n and I not a gentlenan

Istroduced to so as JIM C. and told "You can call hin JIllY."

He said, "Who can you nork with, RUBINO of FIDANZI". I said,

"I want to know what this 18 leading to" and he said, "We

need college educated wen, men of good background who have

logitinato prograns and no mant to keep 1t logitinato. le

have ways of raising woney through banks and ingurance companies

comnittments, y06:"

in one week.

Thig land loan he spoke of; the Gary High Rise

committment; a loan to a nan where they vere going to nake

845,000 cash; and he mentioned fourth one which he didn't tell

about, but 1t mas snaller.

Thay JIM asked no 11 I could work

with

FIDANZI and I said

can work with anyone at World lide.

What would he do?

Ho sald,

"Tell, I woulda't do

anything".

I said, "FIDANZI took this Denver package of wine and

"He sold it to hin for how much?"

He said,.

"Did you need the soney?" I said, "No.

That is what

I don't like."

DAUBER then cane in and said that they

decided that I would stay with RUBINO because he could get

conmitments and DAUBER would stay with FIDANZI so that he

would know what FIDANZI was doing so that he could report quickly

to JIM and RUBINO.

_P -

COVER PAGE

H₩ 45959 DocId: 32329577

Page 15

---

## Page 16

CG 137-5316

We moved out to RUBIRO's real estate office called

King's Rental, 14428 South Mestern Avenue, Poses, Illinois.

Newere there for about a week and out of a clear blue sky

FIDANZI and RUBINO were good Iriends and I said,

"I would

like 'to talk to the man again to seo what the situation 1s."

E0 RUBINO and DON ROSS and DAUBXR and I went back to JIM C'g

home.

He decided that RUBINO's time was up and he couldn't

get the connitments but FIDANZI knew how to raise the money

and that he was supporting business.. I again asked how

1g he supporting the business when he collected $25,000 that

FIDANZI did sign and the money was sover deposited, he

just put 1t in his pocket and he went.

That wag the night

-..JOE BANANAS' mother died and they were having a wake in

Chicago Heights and over the phone by code they said,

"JOg's nother's wake, you know where, and he wants you there

at 8:00."

FIDANZI went there and JIl told him, "Got the

Denver Package back or you put the $25,000 back." That 1s

When it really dawned on me there was going to be no package or

$25,000 back. When I got the nail in November, there was

a letter Iron Ashland State Bank stating they chose not to have

us as an account."

-. *

COVER PAGE

NW 15959

DocId: 32329577

Page 16

---

## Page 17

We had sy secretary, Mrs. ROSE BECK, Call ASHLAND

to find out why and we learned that a check for $5,700 had been

written on our account that GUIDO FIDANZI had taken.

They

had schemed up an arrangement with a fellow by the name of DON

BIAZAVIER who ig an innocent dupe and whon they have gotten for

about $30,000 to date. Now what he was to do with this check

was they had arranged to take lt to a fellow by the name of

BICKL in Kenoshe and he nould give then $5,700 in cash, hold

the check for a few days and then deposit 1t.

And, GUIDO

FIDANZI got the $5,700, and he got two additional checks that I

don't know their exact amounts,

but I know that the three checks

together totaled $10,800. The

$5,700 check was not held by BICKL

but immediately deposited with the bank the next day and they had

closed our account.

That 1s when I said that I demanded to see JIMMY

because I don't want to have anything to do with that at all,

that there was not any attempt being made to be legitimate and I

wanted out.

So I got a call by coincidence fern GUIDO FIDANZI,

and I said,

"GUIDO, I have typed up my resignation and I want

an explanation lor

the $5,700."

I sald, "I also vant an

explanation for the $25,000", and he says, "Nell the operating

funds for the company have come out of my pocket."

And, I

said, "How could that be? How much have you put in?" so he

went

down the line and he itenized about anything that he could

possibly think of, including fictitious payments to themselves,

and he could only go up as high as about $14,000. So I said,

"Actually, then GUIDO, you haven't put any money 1D, have you?"

And, he said, "No, but It was my idea as to hou to get it 1row

BILLINGSLEY.

I said, "I was told that I was president

and that you fellows were not involved, and that this would

be cleaned up.

It isn't going to be and I'n resigning."

And, with that BILLY DAUBER got on the phone and snarled like

an animal.

It was something that I can't describe.

He threatened

me with language, that I couldn't repeat. He said

that I was going

to stay and make my projects come through and get these deposits and

fees.

He said that he didn't like ne from the beginning anyhow

and that I didn't understand the situation. He said, "I take care

of guys like you with an 1ce pick and I'm on my way over", and "Me' 11

get you some night and gouge your eyes out or use a .45 on you."

"B1G

shot," he said, "President"

', 'he says, "I'm in charge. I'm the

-

COVER PAGE

NN 45959 DocId: 32329577

Page 17

---

## Page 18

I've been the boss all along and I answer to JIMMY and

you head for Toledo."

if you want it proved," he sald' "we'll get you with a little

"You just get in that car and

Be said,

treatment, that we call with the shotguns, you and your

Iavily."

He said, "How would you like that?"

"You' re

going to stay there and

you're going to like it and you're going to

do what you're told to."

I said, "I want to see the nan."

He said, "You are talking to the nan." With that I looked for

FERRELL and couldn't find him.

That night he called ne back

and I repeated to him what tas said, and I told him that I wanted

out, and be must take me to the man of whatever it is that you

do to get out 'cause I knos where I an.

Не ваув, "Tell, L

can't tell you waht to do because l'n the boss up there, and we've

got big plang"

And he said,

"These two fellows, you can have them in the river 11 you want

them." He was drunk and when he's drunk he talks, so the next morning

"I went to his office and I said

"Look, get me to JIllY. I

want out."

He said, "Well, l

let me show you how I operate."

And, he drew a nap, a chiart, and

it showed a closed line and on

the left side was MILWAUKBE

directly under him and I answer only to his.

to do. How if you have a complaint you can only take it to JIMlY

CATUARA and CATUARA takes 1t to ALDERISIO. Now 11 I have a

complaint I can only go to MILWAUKE PHIL who will then go to JIMMY

CATUARA who will then take care of lt, but you can't go direct.

Ve're having a weeting Wednesday downtown and I w1ll adition

this matter there.

I can't tell you and will not tell you what

to do for obvious

reasons. I will call you and tell you only

jes or no and then it's up to you, but 11 you get out you will be 1n

our camp where there is real money, very businesslike and very

profitable, and we can bring you out of debt."

Mell, I never got the call.

That night BILLY DAUBER, at the office, called me and he

apologized and said that he had heavy gambling debts and he was

under pressure and said I trust too many "Square JOHN"g" as they

call it.

OTHER 4

-S

COVER PAGE

HH 15959

DocId: 32329577

Page 18

---

## Page 19

He said, "He seed noney

we have to answer

to sone people, "and me sot to set it last because

So they sald that ve want to got.

this going and we want you to set up a meeting with POWERS and

BILLINGSLEY, and ve w1l1 tell you about 1t.

So the next day they case in, DAUBER, FIDANZI, and a

third fellow I had never seen before, and have never seen

since.

He vas not introduced to so - Italian, slender, very

slender, usual dark clothes, weighed only about 135, about 5' 7".

He apparently took great del ight in setting up this weeting, and

they

docided to have it at a restaurant up North, which they

didn't nune, and then they said, "Can you get POWERS to come to

3ist and Halsted?" So I sald I could and they said, "Hell, we

vant to talk to him.

We need & lawyer and we need & good one and 11

nothing else, he could steal for us. No always make noney with him.

Te don't trust him but he has not stolen too nuch."

So I called fron my apartuent POMERS, and he and BILLINGSLEY

Instead of going to the restaurant, came to the apartment. I called

"DAUBER and said that POKERS was at the apartment and I then opened

the coor and let then in, BILLINGSLEY and POMERS. They said that

they wanted me to come with then and resented the fact that I had

I thought that was unusual because they had

really abandoned me, because that's hon I got into it.

That's like the White Box playing the Yankees and I'n on the

White Sox to the seventh inning and then in the 8th inning I 11nd

out that I'n on the Yankees and don't know how I got there.

They

said,

"Let's work together" and "i1 we can trust you we will show you

how to really make noney."

So they left, and about live minutes later there was a thump

They were loaded

they had just left and I thought this was to be a weeting.

that I was getting out.

COVER PAGE

(AW.45959 DocId:32329577 Page 19

---

## Page 20

He said the man you work with or should nork with 1s my

Man STEIN, they nake plonty of noney. Bo he said, "You have

to wake the nove."

'So they had BILLINGSLEY and POWERS go out with ay

packages and they were getting deposits fros various people. They.

collected $22,000 for Truman and Company on the Gary job, an

they clained they gave it to the attorney for Truman and Compans

who dedivered a connitent.

Then I was ordered by GUIDO to go to New York and

veilly last reek, which I did.

for all intents and purposes 1t is & connitment, but there

vas an application with 1t, and, 11 you have a loan you don't

have a commitment for a loan and then have to 1111 out an

application and attach $10,000 to 1t. They sald,

"Hell, don't worry about that:

To have the money. You just get

the application signed", and I said,

"Nell, the bank in Gary.18

- obviously going to nake a call.

They're going to call the Trunan

Company 1n New York and 1t w1ll be verllied."

So, on Friday, I got tho call for Tennessee Gas which I've

been waiting for for sonths.

with Mr. SHARPB.

I mentioned that I was going to Houdbor;nand

I told DAUBER about 1t.

we get the deposit money frow Gary?"

2393

It involves a very legitimate deal

"Nell, can't

$10,000. "

I ay, "Nell, the 810,000 you don't get. It goes

w1th the application back to the Trumas Company."

and to har teet it 12 quick. got to get money la this o111co

I sald, "Nell, 1t's my understanding a lot has come 19,

but I haven't seen it,"

and said, "There is such a thing as incone

tax".

And, he says, "Hell, you don't write figures down and

you don't renember figures"

And then DAUBER sald ho wanted to be my friend and help

me out and he described that they had a meeting one week ago Monday

Cases Bage

NW 45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 20

---

## Page 21

in a notel where POWERS, FIDANZI, MESSINA from New York, and DAUBER

were présent to discuss

me, and POWERS said that his reople wanted

ne.

DAUBER says, 'Yu know they get you che of two ways. We

trade you or they buy

flesh - you kaow what we mean?"

And I said, "I set a pretty good 1dea."

He said, "Ho put a $100, 000 price on you. If they want

you they must pay us $100,000 and

you are free."

BILLINGSLY, after my trip to New York where I went to

Truman and Corpszy or

the Gary and Denver Jobs, felt he was saving

me, as he put it, and the $100,000 vae a resorable price to

pay because he had large suns of money in there already.

Obviossly I was the key and the only key anyone had to

making noney.

I said that I wanted to be free of ary of this activity

and out of 1t.

He said I knew that he was clean and went through

quite a demonstration of religion and prayer.

He took me to a

Dr. HUNTZ outside of Philadelphia, by Kings Row or something 11ke

that, a tittle suburb, ard irtroduced ne to Dr. MUNiL, who 18 11

"Who's who"

, a very ciean and religious man, and quite devoted

man, and he verified BILLINGSLEY was a good

• паД.

BILLINGSLSY sald he mould hold ne nork my may out..

Then becaure of the heavy log we drove Iron New

and it was gettlig very dangerous, and he says, "Don't worry

partner.

l's the key and I've got the power over them, and

POWERS knows all about them, and POWERS is going to get you out and I'm

going to get y:: out,

and because of what I've got over them.

I've paid & lit of money, and 11 It came to that I'd go to the FBI

11 1t coulda't do."

POWERS emphatically said,

live.

BILLINGSLSY said that the LORD protected him, he was right,

and if he went nothing would happen to hin." POWERS said in this

case he wouldn't stop bullets.

NW 45959 DocId:32329577 Page 21

Corin PAGE

---

## Page 22

i to e e for ca do about

821d,

1t3"

together.

weeks.

How you told se about $10, 800 and JINlY kaoks about

$45,000 als0..

I think the noose in going to be put in FIDANZI

even though they are related, and I don't think it's going to

be much longer.

Now we had this meting on you to decide whether

as long as you do what you're

So I discussed with BILLINGSLEY My Call Iron Tennessee

Gas and the urg'ig of FIDANZI to go to Gary to get the deposit,

and BILLINGSLEY sald, "By all nonna go to Houston because this

nan

Is the kind of san that sivon you an appointment maybe three

wonths in advance. Ho travels all over the world and their

subsidiaries."

I was deterained about my livellhood, in that shortly I

was getting out of this, and things l1ke Tennessee Gas are 1n

my l1ne.

So the word got out, apparently over the weekend,

thet

I was going to Houston and that night at 11:30 GUIDO FIDANZI

called

me, and in a blinding rage told me that I was not going to

Houston, that they needed noney and they needed it last, big money,

and Gary mae big noney.

He eaid, "Nell, you approved 1t."

I eaid, "I didn't approve anything. I will go to Gary

but I must go to Houston."

He said, "Don't get on that plane."

And, then I got another call at 1:30 A.M. Sunday from

FIDANZI screaming and warning that he had net with the fellows and

:: *

Corin

HW 45959

DocId: 32329577 Page 22

---

## Page 23

C

that they are tired of not naking any money.

So,

this is obvlously a trap within their ond group,

bocause JINlY knows that they have collected over

$100,000

and GUIDo is st11i claiming that he collected $16,000, ajd he,

over the phone, said that $16,000 vas not enough and they had

to get the deceite in.

MESSINA gaid he could deliver a contractor for $275,000

on a job 1n Baltinore which I didn't know about, but BILLINGSLEY

Joined up with POMERs and they say that they prefer that that

not be buist, that they can handle it,

3275,000 ad 11 anything 18 sald they 11 shut then up, but they

want

the $275,000.

I said,

"POWERS will have to handle that. I don't knon.

anything about 1t."

Backing up to the last Friday before I left, GUIDO

talked about raising noney and he mentioned in front of me the

$6,000 that was is pick up from Mr. AMERMAN 1n New Yock.

I" frost of me he called this Mr. ACE

YESSINA, who 16

i phone Finor 16 6- got 115+, 5 804, NO 3т. 4Y

They told me that becauge I did go to New York and

worked on the Gary comnitnent and this Denver connitnert that I

nas proving to MESSINA that 1 was okay.

I wanted to know where

MESSINA came in and they pasged that off by other conversation.

NoT, MESSINA 18 also behind this Pokono Manor Race

Track and curtes and threatens and everything ustil that comes

through a' a ten percent finance charge with two percent Back to

OWEN WEDDLES who is at & home and commercial mortgage company in

Newark, New Jersey.

So, the second time when GUIDO called he said the fellows

decided at eate think in the ter, of coatt have a co1108e

Inner lage

NW 45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 23

---

## Page 24

GUIDO FIDANZI called Mr. MESSINA in New York, and I

he was in New York for $6,009,

go and see the man Monday or Tuesday. Give him a day and a few

hours, preferrably 48 hours to cone up with the money.

Be a

gentlerar, keep 1t nice, keep 1t neat, alter 48 hours," he said,

"You know what to do."

MESSINA must have said okay and he wiil take care of 1t.

That was Friday.

AMERMAN 1s a l1ttle

he's a lighter.

Then going back again to my Saturday calla, Sunday

& college educaticn but we know how to collect money and you

He used all kinds of profanity ard threats as to what they

vere going to do and he said,

"You will call your 'billionaire

BOB' in Vancouver and tell him not to go to Houston, he owes us

$30,000 on kis commitment for the cement."

I said, "You gave hin no commitment for the cement

plant. You introduced hin to no principals."

He said, "I don't give a damn. Who does he think he 18,"

some kind of god of sonething, that we have to introduce bim

to principals. He wants money, we've got money.

He'll pay the

deposit quick. You get him into Chicago and that's an order, and Ill

collect the money.

FERRELL's out.

I'n telling you, don't get on

that plane and don't you let SHARPE get to Houston, everybody showe

up in Wheeling Mozday and we are going to decide who's what and

what the noxt thing is going to be."

first thing Sunday morning I called BILLINSSLEY

and he saye,

309etcok, POweRg has the control over those fellous and

OTHER 4

can handle them.

The LORD 1g with us and will protect us ard 1

have control over those fellows because of the money.

you

Y

COVER PAGE

HW

45959 DocId: 32329577 Page 24

---

## Page 25

trust us and we'll buy you out of there but talk to balan

because he can do 1t and I will see hin Honday."

I Bald, "Hate BARYSY call 0."

Anyvay, HARVBY callo no and tolls ne the exect

opposite.

"You better show up at the neeting in Wheellng and you

better not go to Houston."

80, I call back BILLINGSLEY and told hin. He couldn't

believe it and ho said, "You must learn to trust POWERS"

I sald,

"Hell, belleve

and you better know who's lylng."

'no, at this stage of the game, I've had it

So I then sado the call to your Tolddo Office and the

Cleveland Office and then snuck into Chicago and took the 7:15

plane to Houston.

When I got there I ligured I was all right

because no one would iigure that one out but they paged me, and so

I figured "no, I'' not 801ng to tako the page"

', that would

ely identily ne.

So I stopped into & phone booth and telephoned

for the nessago and they gave ne "please call Operator 33" and gavo

no this number which was GUIDO'S number and I said thank you and

that was 1t.

I went to the hotel with SHARPE and ve discussed shortly

what we were going to diacuss and I went to the lobby and

made the call to this SANDRA SADILLO. I called her from a pay

phone because I didn't know anyone of what and didn't want to

talk long and said the threat was made again to me because they

knon I's here and I think they are going to meet the plane when I'm.

1o hend

back.

We went over to the Tennessee Gas Office building, 30

stories high, largest utility in the world - to give you some

idea of the great number of employees.

We are standing at the

reception desk, BILL SHARPE here, Mr.

president of the company and President of most of their

Senior Vice

subsidiaries next to me, and the phone at my fingertips rings and

the young lady says,

"It's a call' for you."

He agys, "I see that you got there, and I see that you don't lieten,

COVER

PAGE

NN 45959

DocId: 32329577

Page 25

---

## Page 26

your pago.

It's true, I did not take that nonnage and 1t rould st1ll

be laying there.

Apparontly sonoone was there. In this trenendous

buildsts they knew exactly where I mas standing, which nas no

where sear WHITAKR'& offico.

"a conducted our business which

showed a very 11n0 opportunity 1n 1965 which I want, I want 1t

very badly..

I didn't know what would happen when I got back to

Chicago and atepped o1f the plane lagt night.

I'd like to add that 1. SARNO 18 frOn Atlanta, Georgia.

and owns soveral very elaborate notols - the Atlanta Cabari, the

Dallas Cabana,

and the Los Altos Cabana. He approached our group

with a proponition to finance the Desert Cabana 1n Las Vegas 101

which ho has leased the land. He told se that he had $9.7 million loan

Iron the Toansters, that ho knons HOFTA personally and intinately,

and they talk once a wook and that ten percent of the stock goes

back under the tablo in another name to JIllY HoFFa.

He said 11 ve came up with two and one-half willion for

the second mortgage, and one million for the gambling guarantee require

by the state of Nevada, and a contractor who would hold his profit

to the end of the job, ve would have seventy percent of the venture.

They wanted the deal real badly, the group here. This

was handled

downtows, so this was above JIlly.

I knon that to be & lact. That would have to be STEIN's

off1ce.&the tern downtown from FERRELL has always neant STEIN'S

office and he is always there in the afternoon.

If I wanted him

now I could call hin and he would be at STEIN'S Office. Then they

wanted DALE ROBERTSON to Iront 1t.

I called and went to see DALk out in Hollywood and

explained to him and told his he should say "no" because of his

commitments,: He said "no" and I discouraged the contractor from

I got called by J. SARNO two weeks ago tomorron

(November 25, 1964) Thereln ho said that he had just spent two

days in Las Vegas with severai of the Teamster trustees and they

vere soing to also buy out a hotel in Reno.

I have got the name

of the Black Mare of something. He said they positively re-committed

COVERPAGE

WW 15959 DocId:32329577 Page 26

---

## Page 27

C

this deal to them and he says, "I have ho fear of losing that one."

Не ваув,

"So don't vorry about that but are your people going to

MOve?"

Our people,

I 8a1d, "I knon of no way at the present time to do 1t."

Bo, they didn't press that natter but they are fanatical

now about getting this soney 1n.

I don't recall the date but I guess it was around

September or October, somewhere in therey By a series of

telephone calla I know that RUBINO, PHIM ALDERISIO, and CHARLIE

YORK flew to St. Louis and saw a gentleman by the name of sTiV:

mo

LUKETTA of 1795 Dunn Road, St. Louis, Sherwood 1-5100, because he'

had a contractor who was going to pay $200,000 cash for the

privilege of doing the Gary Job, in advance. They said that there

could be no Gary job.

RAll.6010

Then I learned that LUETTA is associated with JACKSON, and

I don't know how but JIM JACKSON is now the authorized agent for &

group of legitimate businessmen in Pueblo, Colorado, to sell one

million four hundred thousand worth of stock in this new race

track that 1g under construction. And, I understand, he has been

pald either thirty-five thousand or fifty thousand dollars. I have

heard both figures.

JACKSON, LUMETTA, RUBINO and ROSS are handling

They almost got their loan through Harris Trust here

these matters and they own him.

He was going to handle 1t but they

had no "Square JOHN" as they call then to go on the paper. They

attempted to get a gentleman by the name of XENNET: HARRINGTON 1I

Indiana as a contractor to go on •iti because he is the contractor

that 1 intead to use on the Gary Job 'cause he 16 800 looked

clean and well-established and

I has the net worth.

It over and after eeting JACKSON, RUBINO and ROSS, called ne up

and told ne he wanted to

buy the stock. He sald, L

yao part of the buildings, but don't

it doesn't look right to ne."

I Ba1d, "I'= glad you cane to that concluslon."

tr

1715 Vari Kid

OTHER 4

L0 3 1036

5topd:11

Carina Pacá

45959 DocId: 32329577

Page 27

---

## Page 28

They had been in Chfergo and stayed at the Dixie Governor :

Intel on Bouth Nester! Avenue where they were trying to peddle

the stock while JACKSON was there. The connitents will start to

come through right now.

b

b

b

-Ce!

CCUEK

PAGE

HW

45959

DocId: 32329577

Page

28

---

