# docid-32331134

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10080

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/14/1962

4

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32331134

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F". Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CEAND. D'FORM NO. "4

Cffice Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

FROM

SUBJECT:

:DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2989)

LEGAT, LONDON (163-65)

CHARLES

TOURINE, aka

AR;

(P)

DATE:

PROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND

A0VT 301

SEXF

+01

DA

June

14, 1962

397562

New Scotland Yard has now furnished reports in this

matter containing information as

3. Lollows:

Neitor

on March 6,

1962, CHARLES TOURINE,

PAUL BELLO,

RAET,

MERRILI HERBERT KLEIN, SAMUEL BRIGHTYSOKOL and MAXTE

GEORGE.

ROSENBLOOM landed at London, England Airport from the United

enclosures

Gait. 7717

" TOURINE and BELLO,

on landing, were interrogated by

previous one hate in a a gas and To a davase that

he had been engaged in the real estate business before retire-

Both gave the impression of being connected with the

gambling machine business but a discreet search of their effects

disclosed nothing of interest to the police.

TOURINE and BELLO said they would stay

• at the

Dorchester Hotel in London for a few days after which their

movements would be uncertain.

Both were in possession off

return open-date ticket from London to New York and they carried

a substantial number of United States dollars, estimated

at $700

to $800 each.

RAFT,

TOURINE

and SOKOL stayed at the Dorchester Hotel

while BELLO, KLEIN and ROSENBLOOM stayed at the Athenaeum Court,

London, W. 1.

at 14 and 1/29 and tri ocoupied sulta #120.

TOURINE and SOKOL occupied Suites

RAFT and ROSENBLOOM were landed by immigration authori-

ties for three months and granted labor permits for the purpose

"assisting in making a movie film at Sheperton Studios. Yu;

Telephone

Annes

telephone

addition,

calla were exchanced between the continuenciose the

It waskdetermined that BELLO

during his stay

Athenaeum

Court,

A telephone gaze to numble? R7d217,

Hollywood, Calffornia.

BEBEL

laison

64.25 2989-122

1

1

402d61 04

(163-2810sent sent direct) 11 DEbL DEbLUET

125

JTM: col

(8)

noott

DocId: 32331134

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Reieased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 U5C

DATE: 11-14-2017

210) note).

LONDON 163-65

GOWNFIS

NTIAL

BELLO and KLEIN while at the Athenaeum Court occupied

TOURINE departed the United Kingdom on March 13, 1962,

SOROL on April 6, 1962; all left from Londón Airport E

BELLO and KLEIN on March 18, 1962, and RAFT, ROSENBLOOM and

Chief Inspector SID BRADBERY, New Scotland Yard, who

has been handling this matter, in his reports, furnished certain

conclusions and observations on the basis of which he requests

FBI assistance as follows:

(11)

Information in certain circles in London is to the

effect that BELLO was to obtain employment at one of the

gambling clubs as a dealer and that others of his party would

frequent his place of employment and assist in

"fleecing other

gamblers who would be brought to the club by RAFT."

Also in-

formation was received that in some way they were to use contact

lenses through which they could read marked cards. Along these

lines, members of the party would telephonically contact known

optical dealers and a further report will be

submitted by New

Scotland Yard concerning these contacts.

(A1)

BRADBERY points out that from inquiries he has made

it is known that contact lenses can be used by gamblers in con-

junction with marked cards.

Also,

It is known British gamblers

have been checking into the possibilities of contact lenses.

XIM)

According to BRADBERY, a known gambler, DONALD ROWLAN

States in March, 1962, for the purpose of obtaining information

from American gamblers in the use of contact lenses and marked

cards.

New Scotland Yard has no previous record of convictions

against SLACK.

Visa records at the U.S. Embassy in London denote

SLACK waS

has brown hair and blue eyes,

pork at Manchester,Erg was issued a United States

is 6 feet, 3 inches tall,

born at Manchester, Inglens issued a United States

visitor's visa on March 6, 1962..

His purpose in visiting the

United States was stated as

"holiday: - one week.".

NTIAN

92-2989-122

= 2 -

DocId: 32331134 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LONDON 163-65

CONT

NTIALI

BRADBERY also advises that in connection with his

investigation he has been furnished with names of certain

aliens who may be involved with the individuals mentioned and

who are also believed to be involved in cheating at cards. He

states he is not certain that the names as furnished are their

correct names but they are the ones used by them when they

supplied particulars at various gambling clubs; these names

are as follows:

1.

ALBERT E. F.

September 6, 1961; a Swiss citizen.

2.

EUROPI

(A2)

issued in Piotoni

on September 20, 1957; an Italian citizen.

ITALY

3.

CHARLES HENRI RENUCCI, born February.

1913,

passport #02381,

Issued in Paris

FRANCE

i January 22, 1960; a French citizen.

4.

JEAN ANTONIO CULTOLI, born May 14, 19132

passport #614676, Issued in Paris on

March

IRANIA

29, 1962; a French citizen.

5.

MARIO FORTINI, born January 1, 1932, pass-

port #1932938, issued in Washington, on

February 16, 1960; a United States citizen.

gambling houses on the continent or in the United States.

BRADER 1E the Endon that these men may erects

In addition to the foregoing, BRADBERY furnished to

this office assorted playing cards which he received from a

source of information and the playing cards in two separate

packs of 54, marked table #1,

and of 59, marked table #3, are

enclosed for the Bureau. C

(M)

BRADBERY advised he would appreciate it very much if the

FBI Laboratory could submit these cards to an examination in an

effort to determine if they bear any markings which would appear

under various forms of filters. BRADBERY stated that he must

have the cards returned to him

and, consequently, the Bureau is

manaton, our tell on compete de ine requested"

examination.

92-2989-122

- 3-

191901901

DocId: 32331134 Page 4

---

## Page 5

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

LONDON 163-65

"CONF

NTIAL

The Bureau is also requested to check Bufiles and

Identification Division records concerning SLACK and the

other individuals mentioned by BRADBERY in an effort to deter-

mine if they have had contact with gamblers in the United

States. Additionally, check passport records regarding MARIO

FORTINI.

The

Bureau is also requested to furnish any informa-

tion available concerning the use of contact lenses by gamblers

which lenses may be of the filter type for purposes of reading

markings on cards. \

Legat, Bern is requested to obtain from its sources

background information pertaining to GIRARD.

(Al)

Legat, Rome is requested to obtain background infor-

mation from its sources concerning OMERO NENCINI.

Legat, Paris is requested to obtain from

its sources

background information regarding RENUCCI and CULIOLI.

(16)

Information requested at the Bureau and offices

receiving

this letter should be furnished in

an also nate to we sotten sard de

form suitable

SONIDENTAS

42-2989-122

÷4.

DocId: 32331134

Page 5

---

