# docid-32286523

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10299

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-358, 359

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/06/1962

9

CIP, BOOKMAKER, HOODLUM AND GAMBLER ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32286523 Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

FBI

Date:

8/13/62

Transmit the following in -

PLAIN: TE

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (91-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAN

WEEKLY

SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re

Dallas airtel 8/8/62.

Re:

GEORGE

AR,

FUQUA, aka.

PCI

(DL 92-61 and 137-1216)

FUQUA contacted Dallas Office 8/6/62 as per

instructions he

had received while incarcerated in Kansas

and FIQUA was subsequently Interviewed on 8/6 and 8/8/62

by Buagents with a view

towards development of hin as a

Bureau informant.

FUQUA furnished information concerning his

knowledge of Bureau Top

Ten Fugitive JOIN GIBSON DILLON and

Bureau fugitive HARVEY NEWTON

MIGRELL®

He also furnished

pertinent Iniormation concerming WILLIAM RAY DAVIS and

DAVIS®

associate

GILBERT

LEE BECKLEY. DAVIS is one of the

subjects

Dallas file 165-29 captioned WILLIAM MEADOR

•t al, IIVI; ete.

FIQUA also furnished infor.

mation

concerning Dallas hoodlun JAMES HENRY DOLAN (DL 92-292)

Bureau

1 - Dallas

(92-62)

• Dallas

(130-1216)

Dallas

(94-47)

Ds 1 las

(162-109)

1

1

Dallas

(162-129)

• Dallas

(162-37)

Dallas

(262-107)

Dallas

(92-248)

• Dallas

(92-249)

.. Dallas

(92-35)

1

•Dallas

(94-55A-SU8)

RMB/11

(14)

REG 23

62-9-12-1

Approved:

Sent

— M

Per .

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45760 DocId: 32286523

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A - SUB

and Tampa hoodlum SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

The information obtained

from FUQUA has been furnished by separate communication to

Oklahoma City (origin in the DILLON case), to Kansas City

(origin in the MIGHELL case) and to Tampa (origin in the

TRAFFICANTE case) "Information concerning DAVIS and BECKLEY

was furnished by separate communication by Dallas

to Miami

where BECKLEY maintains a residence and which office is conduct-

ing an investigation in this matter.

In addition to the above, in Dallas 94-47, captioned

GIIF - DALLAS, FUQUA advised that ex-convict CHARLES M. "SONNY"

LEFORS recently made a trip to west Texas in June, 1962 with

another thief named JACK MURFT. FUQUA stated he had heard

these two had been successful and had made a score on this trip

but he had no other details.

In Dallas files 162-109 and 162-129 captioned respective-

1y, "ALBERT MEADOWS, aka. IGA" and "SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE,

aka. IGA", FUQUA advised that MEADOWS and his associate BILLIE

RAY GRIMES have an apartment in the Dallas area from which they

are operating as bookmakers and that they are also closely

associating with LITTLE in this bookmaking operation. FUQUA

stated he had heard LITTLE has a house trailer in Irving which

he is letting set idle until the football season begins,: at

which time he will start operating fron this trailer as a book-

maker. (This information previously verified through investiga-

tion as to LITTLE). PUQUA also stated he believes he can obtain

the phone numbers at the apartment where MEADOWS is operating.

FUQUA advised that JOHN ELI STONE (DL 162-37) is the

• largest bookmaker in operation in the Dallas area and that MEADOWS

is a close second. He stated STONE is in a position to nanale

any layoffs from smaller bookmakers in Dallas but he does this

through limiting the amount of layoff to not more than $500.

TUQUA stated that-he-has received information from

some of his hoodlum and gambler associates that Dallas Vice

Squad Detective BILLY XGEE has received payoffs from private

club operators and gamblers in the Dallas area.

FUQUA stated

that one of those who have paid GEE is BOBBY CHAPMAN (DL 162-107) .

He stated the amount of payoff is usually about $50 at a time and

these are picked up by GEE about once or twice a month.

2

NW 45760 DocId: 32286523

Page 3

---

## Page 4

August 13, 1962

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM - ACCOMPLISHMENTS

During the past week the Dallas Office did not

Isseminate any information of interest to local agençies as

che information obtained from FUQUA is being checked to

determine its value

Office that information received from FUQUA should be handled

In strictest confidence in order to protect his identity.

numerous special assignments during the past week.

LYNUM

NW 45760

DocId: 32286523

Page 4

---

## Page 5

ev.

12-1 Je

FBI

Transmit the following in .

Date: 8/6/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via -

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel, 7/30/62.

RE: GEORGE FUQUA, aka.

AR, PCI

(DL 92-61 and 137-1216)

By teletype, 7/30/62, Bureau instructed that FUQUA's

girl friend, BETTY SWEENEY JOHNSON, be immediately interviewed

concerning certain statements FUQUA has made to the Kansas City

FBI Office while he was incarcerated in Kansas.

Bureau also

instructed that no further effort to develop FUQUA as a PCI

be made at the present time.

On 7/31/62, the Oklahoma City Office advised BETTY

JOHNSON had left her

home at Durant, Oklahoma,

and her mother

stated she would be with FUQUA some place in Dallas.

On 8/1/62,

neighborhood sources near FUQUA's residence,

8636 Reva Street, Dallas, advised they had not seen a woman

answering JOHNSON's description or her car at FUQUA's residence.

Bureau

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

Dallas

1

1

Dallas

Dallas

1 - Dallas

RMB : pm

(10)

(92-61)

(137-1216)

(162-1)

(137-514)

(165-29)

(115-72)

(94-55À-SUB)

REC 7, 62-9-12-35

1 AUE 8

1067.

EX-114

Approved:

En S AUS

Sent

Per

Spegrut Agent in Charge

'NW 45760 DocId: 32286523

Page 5

---

## Page 6

DI. 94-55A- SUB

One such source,

advised that she has become close

friend of FUQUA's wife, CHARLENE, and that FUQUA returned to

Dallas 7/27/62, and was seen leaving the residence with unknown

associates the

following day. She advised that FUQUA had not

been seen at his residence since that time.

Mrs. L

further stated FUQUA's children are in extreme fear of him

and that according to FUQUA's wife, subject shows little, if

any, attention to these children as he is seldom home.

On 8/3/62, Mrs.

advised subject's wife had

told her subject was not at their residence and refused to

state where he was

then located.

On 8/5/62, Mrs.

advised FUQUA had returned to

the residence on 8/4/62, accompanied by an unknown individual,

driving his wife's red Valiant.

The wife later told the

source that FUQUA has removed the cast from his injured leg,

but still was using crutches.

On 8/3/62, DL 95-C advised he had just finished

talking to FUQUA's associates, EDDIE TOM GREEN and BARNEY GIBBS.

PAYNE.

Both advised FUQUA was now in Dallas and walking on

crutches.

It should be noted that FUQUA has not contacted SAC,

Dallas,

since his return as per the instructions given him

by FBI,

Kansas City, or per the statement to the FBI, Kansas

City, that he would

make such a contact upon his return to

Dallas. It is further noted that Oklahoma City in airtel,

8/1/62, in case captioned "JOHN GIBSON DILLON, aka. - FUGITIVE,

etc., BAIL JUMPER"', (Top Ten Fugitive), set out lead to

have FUQUA contacted and interviewed as to information he

had previously furnished Kansas City regarding DILLON. Dallas

is not contacting FUQUA as per Bureau instructions in Butel,

7/30/62, but will interview FUQUA if and when he ever contacts

the Dallas office as per prior arrangements.

The information concerning FUQUA's return to Dallas

and information developed

as to the description and license

number of his girl friendi's car was furnished to Lieutenant

JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section, Dallas Police Department,

and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County Sheriff's Office,

on 8/1/62. Both officers stated they would request officers

• 2 .

OTHER 4

• NW 45760 DocId: 32286523 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DL 94-55A-SUB

of their departments to be on the lookout for girl friend's

car and immediately advise the Dallas Office if it is

located in the Dallas area.

RE: WILLIAM MEADOR SMITH, aka.;

WILLIAM RAY DAVIS, aka.; ET AL

ITWI; ITAR - GAMBLING, BRIBERY,

etc.

(DL 165-29)

On 8/1/62, Bureau Agent, while checking cars parked

at the Tenison Golf

Course, a known hangout for numerous

Dallas gamblers, observed subject DAVIS' 1961 Lincoln

Continental. This was the first indication that DAVIS had

possibly returned to the Dallas area since his trip to

Miami, 7/10/62.

On 8/4/62, ERWIN HARDWICKE, Golf Professional at

this golf course and

a confidential source of the Dallas

Office, advised that DAVIS was a frequent visitor to the

golf course and associated with numerous other gamblers who

hang out at the golf course, such as RILEY "BUDI BAWCUM,

J. B. TURNS, and JACK/ KELLER.

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL

and Deputy MORGAN, on 8/1/62.

RE:

GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

DALLAS DIVISION

(DL 162-1)

On 7/30/62, DL 95-C advised he had recently heard

identity undetermined to date, was

making his rounds to customers in a truck and that this book-

maker consistently carried at least $20,000 in cash in his

pocket. Informant has been instructed to ascertain identities

of clients and/or bookmaker.

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL

and Deputy MORGAN on 8/1/62.

-3-

NW 45760 DocId: 32286523 Page 7

---

