# docid-32404164

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

104-10331-10034

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Casef iNH 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : R. M. HUFFSTUTLER

TO : DD'S, CHIEF, DCI PERSONNEL

TITLE

MEMO: REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE/ DECLASSIFICATION OF JEK

ASSASSINATION RECORDS

DATE :

05/17/1993

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS :

JFK ASSASSINATION

PART-TIME WORK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION • ADMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT

STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 04/23/03

COMMENTS

: JFK-M-16 : E2 : 2000.02.08.09:01:40:950054 : 3-PG MEMO

W/ROUTING SHEET

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10034

H# 53217 DocId:32404164 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

ROUTING AND GECORD SHEET

2.0

SUBJECT: (Optional)

REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE/DECLASSIFICATION OF JFK ASSASSINATION RECORDS

FROM:

John F. Pereira

EXTENSION

NO.

Chief, Historical Review Group/CSI

30737

DATE

404 Ames Bldg.

13 May 1993

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICIAL'S

RECEIVED FORWARDED

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1.

D/CSI

433 Ames Bldg.

2.

3.

Executive Registry

6E2914 OHB

1 4 MAY 1901

4.

5.

Executive Director

7D59 OHB

1933

IT MAY

1 to 5: You are abreal

familiar with our plan

to use overtime to beef

up the JfK work force.

westerday we received

the softer are ricaded to

produce the identifica tail

aids. Now we need the peaple

5. For your signature.

6.

7.

C/Historical Review

Group

4.04 Ames Bldg.

8.

9.

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

DIN

EXEC

MEG

15.

FORM 610 EUROSON

IN 53217 DocId:32404164 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONEY

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

ER 3124/93

17 May 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Deputy Director for Administration

Deputy Director for Intelligence

Deputy Director for Operations

Deputy Director for Science and Technology

Chief, DCI/Personnel

Executive Director

Request for Assistance/Declassification

of JFK Assassination Records

1.

This memorandum requests that addressees identify

staff employees for overtime, after-hours work on Agency

records related to President John F. Kennedy's assassi-

nation.

The overtime will be paid by the Center for the

Study of Intelligence.

The request stems from a requirement

in the JFK Assassination Records Act that all relevant

government documents

be reviewed for declassification and

transferred to the National Archives by 22 August 1993.

2. The specific task for which assistance is needed is

indexing of data into an automated system and ultimately

producing computer-generated forms called "identification

This involves keying in information onto a pre-set

form that appears on a personal computer screen. (Experi-

ence in indexing or as a document analyst is necessary.)

The Act cited above requires that each document transferred

to the National Archives have attached to it such an aid.

The same information that is

developed in the aids will be

produced on diskettes that will be forwarded to the National

Archives for use in compiling an electronic index.

3. We estimate that it will require up to 20 people

working 10 hours of overtime per week, probably beginning ir

early June, to meet our deadline.

The work will be done ir

the office

of the Historical Review Group, in Ames Building.

The preferred hours would be Monday-Friday, 1630-1830, or

1700-1900, and there may be work on Saturday as well.

1N 53217

ADMINISTRATI

Doc1d:32404164

Page 3

AL USE ONLY

---

## Page 4

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAb U€F-©NY

SUBJECT:

Request for Assistance/Declassification of

JFK Assassination Records

Applicants should contact the Historical Review

Group, Center for the Study of Intelligence, Room

404 Ames,

30335 or 30146 (secure).

Rh. Auspitater

R. M. Huffstutler

Attachment:

CSI-0048,

dtd 2 Apr 93

53217

Doc1d:32404164

ADMINISERATIVE INTERNAL USE ONEY

Page 4

---

## Page 5

«::.

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Request for Assistance/Declassification of

JFK Assassination Records

DCI /CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs

X30335

Distribution:

original

1

1

1

1

-

Addressees

EXDIR

- D/CSI

C/HRG

- HRG file

(12 May 93)

53217

Doc1d:32404164

ADMINISTRATIVE

Page

5

INTEF

+ USE ONLY

---

