# docid-32293416

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10211-10192

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-921

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 45966 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/26/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, WHEREABOUTS, FGJ, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

57

DooId: 32293416

Page

1

---

## Page 2

1112%

FITZ

DETARYIAENT OF ILSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 2 6 1963

TELETYPE

Mr. Toleon

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Elchr

Mr. CesTer

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conad

Mix. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr.

Gale.

Miz. Roser

ir. Sallivan

Mir. L'avel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Rocza

Miss Holmes.

Mies Gandy

URGENT 11-26-63 7-40 PM EST WRR

DIRECTOR 192-2781/

FROM

SAC TAMPA 192-1/

2P

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JRO, AKA. AR.

JEK Law 10(a) 2

DAILY TELETYPE•

USA EDWARD F. BOARDMAN ADVISED FIVE P.M. NOVEMBER TWENTYTWO LAST.

HE HAD TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED DEPARTMENT ATTORNEY WILLIAM KENNEY,

WHO WAS IN WASHINGTON, D.C. AT SUCH TIME AND REQUESTED HIS ADVICE

CONCERNING ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENA BEFORE FGJ, MIAMI, DECEMBER THREE NEXT.

STATED KENNEY TO DISCUSS MATTER WITH MR. WILLIAM HUNDLEY, AND HE NOTED

THAT

AND WILL

NOT SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THEM, TAKING THE FIFTH AMENDMENT BEFORE FGJ,

AS HE DID IN ORLANDO, FLAO, IN PASTO BOARDMAN, AS SOON AS HE HEARS

RESULTS OF ABOVE REFERRED TO CONFERENCE, WILL IMMEDIATELY ADVISE.

SOURCES HAVE NOT REPORTED SUBJECT IN TAMPA. TP ELEVEN AND TP

FIFTY CONTACTED NOVEMBER TWENTYFIVE, ADVISED SUBJECT HAS NOT BEEN

SEEN NOR REPORTED IN TAMPA• EX. = 117 REC- 40

912-2781921

SGT. JACK DE LA LLANA AND CLAYTON BRIGGS, TAMPA PD, ADUISED THAT

# DEC

SUBJECT-S WHERFABOUTS UNKNOWN TO THEM, AND THEIR SOURCES HAVE NOT RE-

PORTED SUBJECT IN TAMPA. SAID DUANE BRADFORD, TAMPA TRIBUNE REPOR -

TER, ADVISED THEM SENATE INVESTIGATION SUBCOMMITTEE ASSISTANT COUNSEL,

END PAGE ONE

Ca::

G

1063

DocId: 32293416

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

JOHN O-DONNELL, HAD TELEPHONICALLY CONTACTED TAMPA TRIBUNE ATTORNEY,

HUGH MC FARLANE, SRO, AND THEREAFTER A CONFERENCE WAS HELD, AND THE

NEWSPAPER-S ATTORNEY DECIDED NO RETRACTIONS WERE TO BE MADE BY THE

PAPER CONCERNING THE CHARGES BROUGHT BY ATTORNEY FRANK RAGANO ON BE-

HALF OF JIMMY LONGO, WHICH INFORMATION WAS PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED TO

THE BUREAU.

AIRMAIL COPY TO MIAMI.

MIAMI MAINTAIN CLOSE CONTACT WITH WILLIAM KENNEY RELATIVE TO

ISSUANCE OF SUBPOENA FOR

APPEARANCE BEFORE FGJ, DECEMBER

THREE NEXT.

JEK Law 10(a)2

END ACK PLS

• 7-57 PM OK FBI WA LLD

TÙ DISCT

*

'"?

NH 45966

DocId: 32293416

Page 3

---

