# docid-32340942

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10335

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

'AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/06/1959,

PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32340942

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F

y Assassination Records CoLlection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FIRM NO. 64

Office Memorundum • UNITED STATES

GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1423) SECRET

DATE: 2/6/59

ти і с, +80 1897-2027)

SUBJECT:

CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

FOREIGN POLITICS

MATTER - CUBA

11-5-94

Classified iS 08 miC/KSR

Declassity on

DUDE TEN)

I. IRViNg

Enclosed herewith are eight copies of the

letterhead memorandum captioned "Cuban Political Activities"

and dated as above.

WF T-1 is WE 568-S*J WF T-2 is It. Col. )

MARIANO FAGET, Director of the Cuban Bureau for the

Repression of

Communist Activities (BRAC)

as reflected

in letter dated 11/7/58, from the Legat at Havana.

The memorandum was classified "Confidential"

inasmuch as the Legat's letter dated 11/7/58, was so

classified and because data reported could reasonably

result in the identification of confidential informants

of continuing value and

compromise the future effectiveness

thereof.

? - Bureau (Ene

^8)

- WFO

17 ens

(<1 - 1054524) (ISRAELI EMBASSY)] (S)

(1 - 105-26269) (I. IRVING DAVIDSON)

MPC: adc

(5)

ALL INFORMATION CORTANGOD

HEREIR IS UNSLASEIFTEO

2-3-98

EXCEPT WHERE SMOWM /

CLASSIFIED BY 56608 SiD/ESR

OTHERSISE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/, 6

(JFK)

REC- 105

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

2-1423-21

MI FEB 9

1953

Malvea

10 26

53 FEB 27 1959

F148

SECRET

NAT. IN

1G33

DocId: 32340942 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: _ 11-14-2017

CONF

IDENTIAL

- SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

Washington 25, D. C

File No.

97-1027

ALL INFORWATION CORTANGELY

February 6, 1959

NEMaN IS WOCLASSIGIED

111-5-94

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWB

Gassified hy sp&-mAr/Kse

OTHSANISE

Declassify on:

DACR

CUBAN. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

(DAK)

On February 3, 1959, VF I-I, who.has furnished

liable information in

the past, advised that I. Irving

a local Public Relations Counselor, who has

been in frequent contact with the Israeli Embassypl, was

in contact with Avrahan Salmon, Economic Counselor at

the Israeli Embassy!

The informant

advised that Davidson had indicated

he was just getting over the Cuban situation and that he

did not get hurt at all. Davidson further reported that

the Ministry (possibly Israeli Defense Ministry) as not

involved and Salmon Sas glad to learn this.

also said the Cuban situation [did not touch Israel gut

that someone had tried but Davidson had locked it

in a manner which made everyone happy. • Davidson said

now happy.

regard to Davidson, on November Y, 1958

WF T-2, a confidential source abroad, advised that the

Cuban Government had given a two hundred and sixty

thousand dollar letter of credit to I. Irving Davidson,

Public Relations Counselor, Washington, D

Co, for the

purchase of arms to the Cuban Government. The same

source reported that Davidson had requested that the letter

of credit be transferred to Mr. I.XSöhen, representative

of the Government of Israel with offices

in New York City,

New York:

"Cohen was"

referred to as affiliated with the

CIA HARd StAYChNense for the Government of Israel.

2.3.198

DECLASS

ACATION AND/OR,

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLOIKSA

Politia

DORMATION

IN THIS DOCUWENI.JM

9-15-97

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XL

AGENCY

051

AGENCY

54D115R 1-20-98.

it Let UFK

(JFK)

REQ. REC'D

DATE FORW. 12-21-01

HOW FORW.

0-18A

DATE TRA

G2

HOW FORUS

BY

SECRET

BY EMM/alo

2_ -20E REtREE SIDE FOR

CONF

TENT IT CLOSURE

ADD. DISSEMINATION.

DocId: 32340942

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL.

CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

this arrangement, the Government of Israel was to

ship arms valued

at two hundred and

sixty thousand

dollars directly to Cuba, The arms were not described.

On February 3, 1959, WF T-1 learned that Milton

Friedman, of the Jewish

Washington,

figures but these were not available at the present

time (S)Eriedman reported that he could not recall

any

anti-Israel feeling on the part of the Cubans.

-5)

This memorandum is loaned to you by

the

Federal

Bureau of Investigation,

and neither it nor its contents

are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

SECRET

CONE DEAT

DocId: 32340942 Page 4

---

