# docid-32576376

## Page 1

1/19/65

MAILED 19

JAN 30 193

Tolson

Belmont

Mchr

DeLooch -

Casper.

Callahon

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Holmes

Gandy

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SACe, Bes too

Buffalo

Los Angeles

Milwaukee

Miami

Director, FBI

Newask

New Orleans

Philadelphie

Springfield

Tampa

RA COSA NOSTELA

AR - CONSPIRACL

COMM-FBI

Rollartel 1/d/es and Sutel 1/16/05.

for information of offices not designated copies

of rollartel, information has been developed from

LA 4148-C-12, a veteran nember of the Los Angeles "2am1ly"

:"boss" 01, Chat

os 2» Cogn Neatry that Prock Dogsong 1/20/86 to meet

"family,* 1s to be

20 New York City on

with the ncomission.*

Inforuant has been told

by Nick Mcata,

tunder

boss* of the Los Angeles #tamily," that Desinone is represent

ing a number of oneller Western U. S. La Cosa Nostza groups

with the "contesson," and that after conferring with this

top ruling group, Desinone will be couveying results to

these Westen groups whon he represents.

Though Indorwant

iS not aware spectfically of the identities of grougs to

be contacted by Desimone, it lo logical to assume, based

on previous informasion,

that Desanone will be reprosenting

Los Angeles "family,"

and mey well be representing groups

in Texas, Colorado and Loutsiana.

Because of the potential

for Che

development of valuable

intornation rogarding

heretofore unknown La Coss Nostre groups in this country,

an entrenely alecret survelliance is being maintained on

Des mone

to afford coverted or his taip to and fron

New

York, City

10,82

REC 20

1 JẤN 28319085

-898

TJE: raji 13

2 016H oer

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO. "

Plass

HECHATOE

JAN 28001

TELETYPE UNIT

45839

DocId: 32576376

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Airtel to Boston;

Ro:

et

La Cuse Mostra

al.

Rebutol has aduleod Los

Angeles to maintain

particulerly close contret wich La

4918-C-TE for possible

notice

02 Destrose o

date and node

of departure tor

Now York City, and

to clonely coordinate their setivity

with othor interested oliloes.

Los Angoles, San Diego and

othor o20iccs have been instaeted to handle

this master

with goat care tnasauch as experionoe in the past has

determined Desimone to be extrenoly surveillence conscious.

Offices have also bon instructed that in order to maintain

the contamity on our plan, and to unintain security of the

surveillance of Desinone,

that such surveillance by

oftices participnting chould bo temporarily discontimed,

11 contimanco mould "burn" Desimong.

All offices having sourccs covoring

"corniss ion"

notivity, and paticularly those reporting on recent

developmonts pertaining to "coinsion" sotion against

the Bonenno "Zamily" oro to maintain constant contact

with koy sourceo in on eftort to enlarge on our knouledgo

of plans the "connission" may

have to conter in the New

Tors City area on 1/25/65.

This matter ts to roceive top priority handling

the Durcau met bo kept adrised of all significent

developments.

NOTE:

In order that all offices having coverage of

airtel is sent are being alerted to the information received

from the Los Angeles informant and regarding instructions for a

discreet surveillance of Los Angeles La Cosa

Nostra "Boss"

Des imone.

It is noted that informant has advised that Desimone

is to be

in

"commission" and that he will be representing a number of

smaller Western U. S. La Cosa Nostra groups at this meeting.

1¿ VERI OR DABAICE

L BI

- 2 -

ThIs 203340l0

MECELAED- CETE

HH

45839 DocId: 32576376

Page 2

---

