# docid-32303193

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10283-10205

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2918-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/25/1962

15

SMO, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, RES, TRA, MED, ASSOC,

B/F INT, GAMBLING, RACK ACT, POLIT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HW 45854 DocId: 32303193 Page 1

43

---

## Page 2

OTHER 4

PG 92-228

Information in this report of possible value to the

Internal Revenue Service has been furnished orally to Special

Agent JACK SCHWARTZ, Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue

Service, Pittsburgh, who is conducting the investigation of

subject

for his service.

letter, 12/15/61, the Pittsburgh Office requested

the establishment. of a highly confidential source at the

Pines Motel, Leechburg, Pa., to cover the activities and

discussions of SAM MANNARINO during his visits to that

By airtel dated 12/20/61, the Bureau refused

authorization for such an installation due to the very short

period of time that such installation could be operated, and

because the Pittsburgh Office had not developed any information

that people other than SAMUEL MANNARINO's secretary occupied

the motel unit.

By letter 1/3/62, Pittsburgh Office advised the Bureau of

the fact

that all informants and sources familiar with any

phases of the activities of the MANNARINOs had agreed that

the IRS raid in New Kensington, Pa., on 8/24/61, the

Westmoreland County raid of 9/17/61, the FGJ inquiry in

Pittsburgh, and the election of reform candidates for the

New Kensington city administration had all combined to make

an information vacuum in that city, due to drastically

curtailed gambling and

• the resultant inactivity of the

MANNARINOs and their associates-employees.

INFORMANTS

The I symbols utilized in this report will be the same,

where applicable, as those used in reports back to and

including the report of 7/24/61:

PG. T-1 is PG 545-0.

PG I-2 is PG 612-C.

PG I-3 is PG 615-C.

PG I-24 is PG 621-C.

PG T-25 is PCI

New Kensington, Pa.

_ B

-

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DocId: 32303193 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

PG T-27 is Former PCI

New Kensington, Pa.

PG T-30 is CLIFFORD HUTCHISON, owner, Pines Motel, Leechburg,

Pa., (protect per request).

PG I-3I is records of Dun and Bradstreet, Philadelphia, Pa.

OTHER 4

_ C* -

COVER-PAGE

5121008.

NH 45854

DocId: 32303193

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-228

PG T-1

H. CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

is a Westmoreland County, Pa., private businessman

who has been used as a consultant by the MANNARINOS

in some of their legitimate enterprises.

PG T-2

is a New Kensington,

Pa., numbers writer, formerly

connected with prostitution activities.

PG T-3

is a physician, whose professional services have or

occasion, been used by members of the MANNARINC

organization and who frequents MANNARINO controlled

gambling and after-hours establishments.

PG T-24 is a New Kensington, Pa., shop worker who frequents

gambling and after-hours establishments.

PG T-25 is an individual whose experience in gambling

adivities in New Kensington is of at least ten

years standing.

PG I-27 is a New Kensington, Pa., professional man who is

widely acquainted among the gambling element in

that area.

PG T-30 is a businessman in Allegheny Township, Westmoreland

county, ra.,

whose business

brings him into contact.

with many of the professional, commercial anc

industrial leaders of that area.

PG T-31 is a private organization which gathers and

maintains financial information.

11*

HW 45854

DocId: 32303193

Page 4

---

