# docid-32309018

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10297-10145

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-202233-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/21/1970

11

FS, CUBAN EXILE ACT, REVOLUNTIONARY ACT, CUBANOS

UNIDOS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45961

DocId: 32309018

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

CE.: MiSY 1882 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101711.6

• UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-202233)

FROM

WhO SAC, MIAMI (105-18943) (P)

SUREC:

CUBANOS UNIDOS

(UNITED CUBANS)

IS - CUBA

NM - CUBA

DATE:

AUG 2 1 1970

2m(2)

ó"

0/12-19-21

Stete CI./Secret Service/RAO ISD L/ATFD/

ARMY/Nevy/Nir Foroc/DIA/Customs/Coast Guard/FCC

Info:

•(00: Miami)

SAD NO

ate 8/312

- By KHN/ SSM/SKm

IC Retained in(606 AD)

EP OPT ATE AGENCIES

CI33

DVISE

6 Re: Miami letter with enclosures, 6-19-70.

Bureau airtels to Miami, 6-24-70 and 8-4-70

DEFICES

OUTING

CIA HAS NO OBJECTiON gated and captioned as above.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 9) copies of a

PRIATH

FAV

DECLASSIFICATIOM AND/OR

Copies are

being disseminated locally to

RELEASE OF CIA IRidol@owing

Federal agencies:

AND

ADVISED

OF

STIP(SY

DATE

IN THIS DOCUMENT.JM

9-3-97

1

1

1

Classified D

declassiy o

SPSMAC

3 іка

12/53

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERDIN

#CLASSIFIED

•E SHOWN

OTHERWISE

- U.

S. Secret Service, Miami

NISO, Charleston, s.C.

11lth M.I. Group, Orlando, Florida

Cuban Affairs (State Department), Miami

CIA, Miami

S. Coast Guard, Miami

U.

S. Border Patrol,

Miami

U.

S. Customs (1-Miami; 1-Region 1)

INS, Miami

OSI,

Patrick Air Force Base, Florida

1 - Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Division,

Miami

T-2 18 MY 974-S. (/22 0 19: 27-971668-56

T-2

is

Key

Source -

OTHER 4

Cuban

ISE

H00-108-04

MM T-3 is CIA letter,

6-19-70,

Secret,

No Foreign Dissemination.

1105.

-Bureau (Enc. 9) (RM)

-Miami

REC-33

RJD/al

(3)

9 ENCLOSURE

97

J

SECRET

X-1118

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

classified

02233-

bir 10250

ANG 24 1978

NW 45961 DocId:32309018 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-18943

SEGET

classified Secret, Departa 7-29-70.(ATx Letter,

Enclosed LHM is being classified Secret,

No Foreign Dissemination, inasmuch as it

contains

information from CIA so

WlAsB1F10N. 651

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will continue to follow and report activities

of captioned organization.

REVIEWED BY PITE TASK FORCE

1/8\99 cat

DO RELEASE IN FULL

D

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

2.

SECRET

HH 45961

DocId: 32309018

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO FOREIGN DISSEMI TION

RE:

CUBANOS UNIDOS

(UNITED CUBANS)

gasoline storage plants and electric plants in Cuba.

However, CU has not formalized these plans, and they are

not expected to take place within the immediate future.

NAVARRO explained that he had been, appearing

on radio and television programs in the Miami, Florida, area,

calling for unity of Cuban exile groups and urging these

independent groups to join CU for military operations

against Cuba.

NAVARRO said that CU takes the propaganda

position that it is against any United States help

will liberate Cuba without United States arms,

backing

or recognition.

NAVARRO explained the purpose of this

policy is to unite the Cuban exiles, but privately CU is

trying to obtain United States Government help and backing.

On June 23, 1970, MM T-l advised that certain CU

members claim that they had located a good boat, about

sixty feet long with a steel hull and two motors.

The boat

is owned by an unidentified American.

MM T-1 explained

that from the contents of the conversation, it appeared

that the CU members planned on contacting the American

owner of the boat to ascertain if arrangements could be

made for CU to use this boat for operations against Cuba. (*(M)

been

(on June 26, 1970, MM T-2, a Cuban exile who has

revolutionary matters for the past

five years, advised

involved in Cubat on the night previously, he had

conferred with WILFREDO NAVARRO, at which time NAVARRO

claimed CU was going ahead with its plans to sink a

Soviet vessel off the east coast of Florida as the vessel

on its way to Cuba.

NAVARRO: indicated that CU had no

particular vessel in mind, but that when plans were completed

they would attempt to sink the first Russian vessel that

happened to come

along.

On June 29, 1970, MM T-l reported that he received

information that CU was preparing some type of military

action against ships trading with Cuba. This action would

involve an attack on a ship on the high seas and possibly

a ship of Russian registry. The leaders of this operation

are WILFREDO NAVARRO and GORDON DI BATTISTO, an American.

CU reportedly had two 20mm cannons, two .50

caliber

machine guns, and an unidentified boat, owned by an

American, not further identified.

(7 (м.).

3:

SEC

NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

NW 45961 DocId:32309018 Page 4

---

