# docid-32309119

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10246

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-873

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

09/19/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792. DocId:32309119 Page 1

231

---

## Page 2

_4-41 (REv. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLpac

Evah

Malobe

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

2-19-62

FROM SAC CHICAGO

192004

SAMUEL, M.

GIANCANA, AKA•, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6533-0 ADVISED SEPTEMBER 18 LAST GIANCANA

OBSERVED ENTERING ARMORY LOUNGE. AT SAME TIME, CHARLES

AND SAM ENGLISH, CHICAGO TOP HOODLUMS, OBSERVED ENTERING

ARMORY DURING PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED ON THEIR

ACTIVITIES EROM LOMAS DESTRIBUTE SAS NOTED THAT O M

ADVISED SAME DATE HE WAS SCHEDULED TO MEET

WITH THE ENGLISHES AND GIANCANA AT EXECUTIVE HOUSE

HOTEL SEPTEMBER 18 LAST. U,

CG 6486-0.* ADVISED SEPTEMBER 18 LAST THAT GIANCANA

SPENT ENTIRE AFTERNOON AND NIGHT OF THAT DATE AT ARMORY

LOUNGE, HOWEVER, DID NOT CONDUCT BUSINESS DISCUSSIONS.

ONE CONFERENCE OF NOTE WAS FACT THAT JAMES CELANO, THE

TAILOR AND OCCUPANT OF PREMISES UNDER CONTROL OF CG

6343-0*, CONFERRED WITH GIANCANA CONCERNING A FAVOR HE

DESIRED OF GIANCANA. DURING DISCUSSION, CELANO DESCRIBEE

AGENTS OUT OF HIS OFFICE.

GIANCANA WAS NOT IMPRESSED

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

REC 672-

RECEIVED:

6:52 PM

220. 20r99212120

REM

•TARED

OTHER

4

873

18 SEP 81 1-92

C 2 SEP CR

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32309119 Page 2

---

