# docid-32142808

## Page 1

8/26/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Search

Exit JFK

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

of 1992

ate: 08-11-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10070-10309

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-288

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

SAC, LV

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE :

[No Titlel

DATE: 11/29/1963

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

JFK, BKG, INTERVIEW,

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/11/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form.

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

U.s. ber

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 3 0 1953

TELETYPE

1,6

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont.

M=. Mohr

Ma, Casper

ME. Koliaken

F.r.

Art.

26:.

NI:.

R.C:.

Man.

Fi.:

tor.

Mies filmes

biiss

URGENT

TD,

11-29-63

10-38

PM JCK

DIRECTOR /44-240161

SAC, DALLAS 144-16391

FROM SAC, LAS VEGAS / 44-48/ /P/

JACK LEON PUBY, AKA, LEE HARVEY OSWALD/ VICTIM/ DECEASED, CR.

RE LAS VEGAS TEL TO THE BUREAU AND DALLAS DATED NOVEMBER

TWENTY SEVEN, LAST.

THE FOLLOWING INVESTIGATION WAS CONDUCTED LAS VEGAS, NEVADA.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

SHERIFF RALPH LAMB, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, ADVISED SAC DEAN WO

ELSON, ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE INSTANT, THAT HE HAD RECEIVED THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION FROM A VERY RELIABLE SOURCE.

ON NOVEMBER SIXTEEN, LAST, JACK RUBY WAS AT THE TROPICANA

HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA, AND WAS QUOTE HOST UNQUOTE BY PRESTON

MELNERERE, A PART OUNER OF THE TROPICANA HOTEL.

TROPICANA

dU Par mos

Titi

MAINTAINS

POLLS ROYCE COURTESY CAR FOR SPECIAL GUESTS, AND RUBY HAI

CALITHIS CAR AT I HIS DISPOSAL WHILE AT THE TROPICANA. LAMB DID HOT"

REVEAL THE IDENTITY OF HIS SOURCE:

LAS VEGAS;

ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE, INSTANT, PCI PEARLETTA MC KINNEY

/ PROTECT IDENTITY/, ASSISTANTS

SUPERVISOR, TELEPHORE GAICE, 288

AND OF PAGE ONE

22 DEC 281963

56DEC5 196321

HW 53932 DocId: 32142808

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LV 44-48

PAGE THREE

PCI HAMER WAS TOLD RUBY WAS IN LAS VEGAS WEEKEND OF NOVEMBER

SEVENTEEN, LAST, AND PLAYED GOLF AT TROPICANA GOLF CLUB WITH

FINEBERG. RUBY ALLEGEDLY GAVE GOLF CADDY A DRINK CARD BEARING

RUBY-S NAME AND HIS CLUB IN DALLAS, TEXAS. PCI ADVISED RUBY HAS

USED THE NAMES RUBIN OR RUBEN AND HAS BROUGHT STRIPPERS TO LAS VEGAS

AND HAS OFTEN REGISTERED AT TROPICANA MEXXHOTEL AS MR. AND MRS. WHILE

STAYING IN LAS VEGAS, WITH THESE GIRLS•

LV FIFTY FOUR - C, ON NOVEMBER TWENTY NINE, INSTANT, ADVISED

SA ROBERT DO LEE, LAS VEGAS TELEPHONE NUMBER SEVEN THREE FIVE-

*FOUR

THREE ZERO THREE WAS A NON / PUB NUMBER LISTED TO LEWISMC WILLIE,

THREE SIX TWO SEVEN EASTERN AVENUE, LAS VEGAS, NEVADA.

NOTE MC WILLIE INTERVIEWED NOVEMBER TWENTY FIVE, LAST, BY LAS

VEGAS, REGARDING THIS MATTER.

LAs vegas, Ner

PCI PAUL

2 COE, ASSISTANT MANAGER, THUNDERBIRD HOTEL, ADVISED

SA WAYNE H. DRAKE THIS DATE A RECHECK OF HOTEL RECORDS FAILED TO

REFLECT ANY RECORD OF SUBUCET. PCI COE FUTHER STATED NO RECORDS

MAINTAINED ON INCOMING CALLS TO THUNDERBIRD HOTEL.

DETAILS...

CURRENT LAS VEGAS CITY DIRECTORY REVEALS TELEPHONE NUMBER

END PAGE THREE

NW 53932 DocId:32142808 Page 3

---

