# docid-32314233

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 21U7 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10335-10160

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-174-1-85

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/15/1964

7

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

_CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

l...

v9.1

DocId: 32314233

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USt ZIUT kote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO

FROM

OPTIONAL PORM NO. IU

3010-100

MAY 1P6Z EDITION

OSA GEN. PEG. NO. 21

L'VITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

¿IRECTOR, FBI

(Eur:le

JUNE

92-3972 / DATE:

SAC, BUFFALO (92-174- Sub 1)(P)

T/75/64

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE:

Title

PRED G. RANDACCIO

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU 258-C*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

1. Name of person or organization

on whom

surveillance placed:

FRED G. RANDACCIO

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Mogavero's Delaware Texaco Service Center

455 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Offica

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

5:

reinstalled 5/1/63.

Previous

the same subject (with dates and places) :

Buffalo; discontinued

installed in apartment of subject's paramour, DARLENE GRANI,

Essex St., Buffalo, 12/7/61; discontinued 6/29/62; reinstalled 9/24/

If installation

Not applicable

is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

1 = Burealo

Registered Mail

PBJ:dbl

(2)

c. Is the surveillance on a pubiic coin-operated telephone?

92-174. Sub1-85

Searchied

Serialized

IndexedFiled

DocId: 32314233 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel:*

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-174-5ub 1

do Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone located in e W. I. 6041A Key located on wall

In amall office of Delaware Texaco Service Center.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

„ No

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is know to seven live informants, but none are in &

position to furnish information of nature furnished by BU 258-0*,

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

NO

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a Rental costs for plant premises: None - plant at Buffalo Office.

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant. Y

DocId: 32314233

Page 3

---

