# docid-32303594

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10284-10106

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-30067-14, 15

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection set of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:WIl 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SCHON, LEO ANTHONY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/06/1943

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

JOP, PROMOTION, MANAGING EDITOR, CP, PUBLICATION,

PEOPLES WORLD

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC RPT

v9.1

HH 53130

DocTd: 32303594

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

rD-72

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

FoMa No.1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNTA

1400-146%

FILEIND

REPORT MADE AT

SAN FRANCISCO

1/6/4540

10y86y4s

TIMES

VOR PISAN

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Sub foot ettll resides 50 Divu

Sen Pronexaco, cano, lu anployed et

Editor of the Pevale? & World nespapers

clarestig

returned from trip to don Tort Nt GoOr te

is still sotive in thp comunta forty and en alone

contact with high pasty officiniao

Subjectio

draft status ta still uncertains

- P -

REPERENCE:

Repart of Special Agent LEO ANTHONY, SCHON dated

9/16/48 at San Francisco, Californte:

DETAILS:

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA!

Inasmuch as subject hold the position of lanaging Better

of the People's World newspaper, Communist controlled publication in Sen Frea

gisço, and has been active in Communist Party ciroles for seteral yeara, he has

been

designated as a key figure in the San Francisco Field Division.

MiSE BERLINDA DAVISON, BETO, President of the Sen Frage

Chapter of the Noh.A.C.Poe 2838 Pine Street, San Prancisoo, tolephontoolty

advised that the subject still regides at 50 Diviandero Streot, San Pronessed.

Source of Information A stased that aubjeot st1ll maintaiar

his position es Managing Editor of the People's World newspaper, Communist

controlled newspaper organ; that he recently returned from a trip to veit hse

mother in Georgie.

Informant also advised that the subject spent several days

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

RaL

SPECIAL. AGENT

iN CHARGE

COBT I TIM

PLES OF THIS REPORT

15 -

Bureau

3- on see as pea for

1 - G-2, San Prancisco

3 • San Francieds

CAnT-G. LA

50

12-15-43

DO NOT WRITE IN THISE SPACHS

100- 30062-

15

RECORDED

4 NOV 15 1941

& INUES IN

101

74 53130

DooId: 32303594

Page 2

---

## Page 3

San Francisco File 100-1465

85400

in New York City where he conferred with Communist Party functionaries in New

York.

Source A further advised that subject. was a member of the

Metal Trades Section of the Communist Party, San Francisco, and that this section

was being dissolved and the Party planned to transfer members inte neighborhood

branches.

Informant stated that he had not yet learned to what branch the party

planned to transfer the subject.

Confidential Informant SF-939 advised that subject was

guest of honor at a party held by the fillmore Branch of the Communict Party

at the Abraham Lincoln Victory Center, 1750 Fillmore Street, San Francisco, on

August 27, 1943.

Source B advised that he had received information through

a contact available to him at Party Headquarters reflecting that the subject

was considered by Party officials as a possible choice as a candidate for the

office of the. Board of Supervisors in the city elections in San Francisco. After

some consideration, he said that the Party chose as their candidate OLETA

O'CONNOR YATES, Executive Secretary of the Communist Party for San Francisco.

County.

source A stated that the subject ran out of funds in New

York City during his recent trip to the East Cost and that subject sent a

collect telegram to LEO BAROWAY, the State Financial Director for the Communist

Party in California, saying that he had no money to return to the coast and

wanted to know what to do.

LEO BAROWAY advised informant that JOHN GITIMAN

acted like a "country hick" and that when

he returned from his trip from New

York the Party would have to instruct him how to handle himself... BAROWAY

further stated that PITTMAN should have known enough to go into the Party Head-

quarters in New York or the Daily Worker office and borrow $50.00.

Source I stated that on the occasion of the visit of

JOS EPH

NORTH, Editor of the New Masses, Communist Party magazine, to San Fran-.

cisco

during October of 1943, NORTH had a conference with the subject on

October 11, 1943.,

Source O stated that he received information that subject

ssisted FELICE CLARK STRATTON, New Organizer of the Golden Gate Section

Communist Party, San Francisco, and MARGERY FOGUE, Negross, member of the Golde

Gate Section, in writing a campaign leaflet on the racial question to be used

in the city election campaign.

In a written report submitted by Soupte A, he stated that

subject was present at a meeting

included BILl SCHNEIDERMAN, OLERATO CONVOR and HEL

f high Communist Party funotionaries which

WINTER, held at the

2

NW 53130 DooId:32303594

Page 3

---

## Page 4

• ,

85404

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVASTIGATION

Case criginated at: SAN FRANCISCO

Report

made at:

Date:

SAN FRANCISCO

Title:

9/16/43

Period:

9/2,3/43

JOHN PITTMAN

File No. 100-2465

Report made by:

LEO ANTHONY SCHON

Character of case:

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

11

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

REFERENCE:

DETAILS:

Subject, a Negro, has been promoted

to managing editoi of the PEOPLE'S

WORID.

His editoriai polley has been

criticized by fommunist Party officials

for not correctly interpreting the Party

Line.

Subject is a member of the san

Francisco County. Committee of the CP,

and has been transfered to the Shipfitters

Branch, Metal Trades Section of the Party.

He is a popular public speaker and has

delivered addresses at several CP meetings

on the Negro problem.

PITTMAN has been

classified lA in the draft and the Party

is

attempting to get a deferment for him.

_P=

Report of Special Agent GEORGE V. SCHNEIDER dated

at San Francisco January 11, 1943.

AT SAN FRANGISCO, CALIFORNIA

•35-

Source A advised that when

editor of the

PEOPLE'S

AT RICHMOND, managing

ORLD, well know Communist publication

Approved and

Special Agent

Forwardad

in Charge

100-30067 - 14

5 - Bureau

2

- ONY San

Franciseo

-G-2 San Franciseo

4 - San Francisco

80

1943

/ A9

NW 53130 DooId: 32303594

Page 4

---

## Page 5

85405

San Francisco #100-1465

in San Francisco, was inducted into the Army in February 1943, subject

who was formerly the foreign editor, succeeded him. Source B asserted

that in carrying out his present duties as managing editor of the

PEOPLE'S WORLD, subject is called upon frequently to write editorials

which expound the Communist Party policy.

Informant asserted that

approach of PITTMAN to laying down the Communist Party line is not

that which the County Committee had decided upon. Informant stated that

subject's editorials sometimes were said to be, almost as bad as

WESTBROOK PEGLER's column and that the subject almost justified PEGLER.

Informant stated further that subject, who is a Negro, was even

criticized by WILLIAM SCHNEIDERMAN for his approach on the Negro

question, and that SCHNEIDERMAN said that if the subject can't write

straight on the Negro problem the Party officials won't allow PITTMAN

to write on it at all.

On January 9, 1943 Source B adviséd that subject is

a member of the San Francisco County Committee of the Party.

Source C

advised on July 9, 1943 that subject was being transfered to the

Shipfitters Branch, Metal Trades Section of the Party.

This transfer

was verified on August 26, 1943 by Source D who made available an

official registration blank of the Communist Party showing subject to

be a member of this branch and section, which is being maintained in

the files of the San Francisco Field Division.

Source B advised

that despite subject's affiliation

with known Communists and his position on the staff of the PEOPLE'S

WORLD, he appears to desire that his Party membership be kept a secret.

In this connection informant asserted that on the occasion of EARL

of having a Negro. sit on the platform at this rally. Informant asserted

that the name of subject was suggested but it was stated that subject

would probably refuse because of his desire to keep his Party membership

a secret.

SOONE, INTESE 939 stated that subject attended a special meeting'

of the Fillmore Branch of the Party on May 12, 1943 at which time the

coming State Convention

of the

Party. was discussed.

2

NW 53130 DocId: 32303594

Page 5

---

## Page 6

85406

San Francisco #100-1465

Source A advised that when Admiral EVERY LAND held a

press conference on the West Coast Maritime situation in San Francisco

the last week of May 1943, subject PITTWAN was in conference with

HARRY BRIDGES, well known West Coast Communist, who asked the subject

to send a PEOPLEIS WORLD reporter to the press conference to ask

Admiral LAND certain questions furnished by BRIDGES in order to

"put Admiral LAND on the spot".

•SF 1212

stated that subject was the former Educational.

Director of the JAMES CONNOLLY Branch of the Golden Gate Section of the

Party, however that wher he was unable to devote sufficient time to

carrying lout the duties attendant to this position, subject was asked

by VIOLETORi, Organizer of the Golden Gate Section, to resign as

Educational Director or else he would be dismissed for his lack of

activity and leadership in this position. Informant advised that the

James Connolly and the Frederick Douglas Branches of the Party had

the subject's transfer into the Shipfitters Branch, Metal Trades

Section, he held a position in May 1943 on the Executive Committee

of the Fillmore Branch.

An article appearing in the PEOPLE'S WORLD issue of

April 23, 1943 announced a lecture to be delivered by subject

entitled

"Africa Against the Axis" on April 23 at the TOM MOONEY

LABOR SCHOOL, 678 Turk Street, admission fifty cents. It is noted

that the TOM MOONEY LABOR SCHOOL is a well known front organization.

for the Communist Party.

Sr 1159 stated that on June 23, 1943 subject delivered an

address on race riots before a joint meeting of the Fillmore Branch

and Branch 6 of the Metal Trades Section of the Party. He stated that

all riots which had recently broken out such as the. Detroit and Beaumont

riots, started at the same time which proves they were inspired by

Axis friends:

He further stated that he had observed that the riots

started when the Axis powers were caught between two forces of Allies

in Europe.

He said that Communist Party policy is to demand protection

for Negroes and Mexicans from the police, and also to contribute more

to war production.

A news item in the OAKLAND TRIBUNE on July 13, 1943

stated that JOHN PITTIAN, Negro columnist, would be the guest speaker

at a public meeting to be held by the Berkeley Branches of the Communist

Party at 1942 Shattuck Avenue, Berkeley, California on July 15, and

that subject was to discuss the effect of the recent so-called "raee

riots"..

- 3-

53130

DocTd: 32303594

Page 6

---

## Page 7

San Francisco #100-1465

8540%

On July 23, 1943 an article appeared in the PEOPLE'S

WORLD stating that the first of a special series of six weekly classes

on "Peoples of the Pacific" would be held at the TOM MOONEY LABOR

st t the act or not

SCHOOL, and that JOHN PITTMAN, managing editor of the PEOPLE'S WORLD

woudd talk on Japan at meetings to be held on July 24 and 31.

SF 939 advised that

on August 30, 1943 PITTMAN spoke

at a Communist: Party meeting held at the Abraham Lincoln Victory Center,

1759 Fillmore Street, on the problems of Negroes, stating that his

people have always been discriminated against and were prevented from

progressing to a normal and satisfactory manner of living.

Source D made available a handbill advertising a speech

to be delivered by subject, the editor of the PEOPLE'S WORLD, on

the coming election in San Francisco on August 19, 1943 at 1402 Powell

Street; San Francisco.

This meeting was held under the auspices of

the North Beach Branch of the Communist Party.

Source E advised that subject had been classified IA

and that the Party, through GEORGE ANDERSEN, well known attorney for

the Party in San Francisco, had been trying to get a deferment for

him. Informant advised that subject's draft board advised PITTMAN

on August 4, 1943 that he would be ordered for induction soon, Party

officials feel however that if he can be defered for a few months, the

Army will not take him inasmuch as he will be 38 on December 17, 1943.

Source A advised that on August 26, 1943 subject

received permission

from his draft board to leave the city for a month in order that he

might visit his aged mother in Georgia.

spoke, under the a resorted se to sent a valen teet,

San Francisco on the subject of the world situation and the German

and Soviet Non-Agression Pact.

Informant advised that an article appeared

in the July 1939. issue of the FILLMORE SPOTLIGHT; published by the

22nd Assembly District of the San Francisco Communist Party, advertising

an open branch meeting of the Party scheduled to be held on July 20, 1939

at 1732 0'Farrell Street. The article stated that JOHN PITTMAN, staff

member of the PEOPLE'S ORLD, would speak on "The Negro Looks at 194011

Informant further advised that on March 20, 1940

sponsored by the PEOPLE'S "ORLD on the topic "This Week Abroad" held

at the Sorosis Hall, 536. Sutter Street, San Francisco.

advised

that subject delivered an address at the Eagle's Hall, 273

Golden Gate Avenue,

330 Sue

on September 19, 1941, the occasion being a meeting

held under the auspices of the Peoples, world Forum. ELIZABETH GURLEY

#FLYWN, Secretary. of the Citizens Committee to Free EARL BROWDER, and

a nationally known Communist Party functionary, spoke on the same

program.

- PENDING -

- 4-

HH

53130 DocId: 32303594

Page 7

---

