# docid-32289796

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10202-10072

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-972, 973

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/26/1962

41

THP, TESUR, SGI, BRADY, LOU

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32289796 Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350

WER: rmh

GIANCANA:

BRADY:

Ah, no.

The other guy down South,

the deal he originally

sent me up here on, it never existed.." But 1f I

hadn't followed up

on this deal I would never

"ve run into the situation the

way it is.

what I'm gonna do with him is tell him it's

all in your hands.

And that whatever decisions

are to be made you'll make the decisions.

What decision?

GIANCANA:

BRADY:

Oh.

GIANCANA:

oh? OK.

(both leave)

The Miami Office is requested to identify the architect

referred to by BRADY above as GROSSMAN (ph).

The Los Angeles Office is requested to develop

background information concerning the Taylor Construction Company

since apparently from the information supplied by BRADY the

individual he has dealt with in this company is apparently based

in Los Angeles.

PCI

advised today that KORSHAK

has been out of town for at least

two weeks and that his return is

indefinite.

The Chicago Office conducted a surveillance at O'Hare

Field all day, 2/26/62, in an effort to observe GIANCANA since

he informed BRADY that he was leaving town yesterday. However,

GIANCANA was not observed.

The exact identity of the individual BRADY refers to

as the "guy down South" who originally sent him to Chicago

concerning the "non-existent" deal is unknown.

However, this

office feels that this is possibly SANTO TRAFFICANTE and the Tampa

Office is requested to comment on the speculation.

From the above conferences between GIANCANA and BRADY

on 2/21/62 and 2/23/62 it would appear very obvious that they are

in the process of dotaining financing in order to construct and

- 24 -

NW 45760 DocId: 32289796 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

