# docid-32296124

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10216-10400

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-83

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/25/1959

23

SMO, FISUR, RES, ASSOC, ARREST, PERSONAL HISTORY,

BKG, CRIMINAL ACT, B/F INT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/26/1998

, OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45854

DocId: 32296124 Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Report Form

PD-263 (5-12-55%

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION:

Reporting Office

PITTSBURGH

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.;

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

Date

6/25/59

Investigative Period

4/25 - 6/15/59

Report made by

THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

ear

Approved

Copies made:

REFERENCES

Report of SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE, Pittsburgh, 5/4/59.

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

The physical surveillance of GABRIEL MANNARINO's residence

on April 28, 1959, was conducted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

and was originally reported in 92-236-568.

Information concerning the departure of MIKE GEORGE

HAZIDAKIS for Greece and concerning the possibility of a

violation of the Internal Revenue Code on his part has

been disseminated to IRS, Pittsburgh, by letterhead

memorandum, dated June 4, 1959, copies of which were sent

to the Bureau by cover letter, bearing the same date.

It is noted/that PCI JAMES THORNTON MC CLOWRY, M.D., Spring-

dale, Pa.,

In addition to information set out

in attached

Special Agent

'In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

4

Bureau

91 21110

2 REG- 73

REG.

(2 - 92-2910)

To Beg

92-2914)

4 - Pittsburgh

2 - 92-220

-

92-236

ТГ

15 TOBA

RECORDED CO

Property,

14,577276

JUl Be penago you by the El, and pather it or ila contens are to Do leterined ourade in agoney do mies loned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0 344750

NW 45854 DocId:32296124 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228

PG 92-236

report, advised SA JOHN L. PUDDISTER as follows:

He has been treating members of the MANNARINO organization

for about seven years and would gladly furnish information

concerning them and their activities.

Dr. Mc CLoWrY, who

1s of the Roman Catholic faith, has also been called upon

many times to treat Priests and Nuns, with particular

reierence to Mt. St. Peter's Roman Catholic Church, Freeport

Road, New Kensington, Pa., the parish to which the

MANNARINOS

belong.

Father FUSCO is Pastor of the parish, and his

chauffeur is JOHN STANISH, who is also a registered nurse.

Both have been Dr. MC CLOWRY's patients at one time or another.

During the period

in late 1958 that a subpoena was outstanding

for SAM MANNARINO's appearance before a Federal Grand Jury,

Pittsburgh, he was being hidden, part of the time, by Father

FUSCO on the third floor of the

Apostulate House for Mt. St.

Peter's Roman Catholic Church, located at 204 Charles Street,

New Kensington.

Dr. MC CLOWRY has asked Father FUSCO on many

occasions not

to assist

, the MANNARINOs, but Father FUSCO, a

"pure blooded Sicilian," has stated that the MANNARINOs are

his

"boys" and that the Federal Government is persecuting

them for things which are quite legal in Italy. Father FUSCO

attended the coronation of Pope John XXIII, along with his

chauffeur, JOHN STANISH. STANISH has told Dr. MC CLOWRY that

upon returning from Italy, Father FUSCO was met in New York

City by ALBERT ANASTASIA's limousine and that they were

rushed through customs without an examination of luggage.

STANISH said they stayed a few days in ANASTASIA's home and

then returned to New Kensington.

Approximately two weeks

later, ANASTASIA was shot to death in New York City. MC CLOWRY

has said he will furnish medical records on a confidential

basis and will attempt to obtain a photograph of SAM MANNARINO.

In view of the fact that certain information developed gives

some indication that

SAMUEL MANNARINO could be involved ir

the cases captioned "STUART SUTOR, et al; TGP; ITSP; NM; FFA

(Bufile 52-72398) "

and "BERNARD J. EZHAYA, et al; ITSP - MT

(Bufile 87-41245)" and may become a subject of one or both,

considerable investigative time has been devoted to them.

In addition, the first named case may be presented for trial

in September, 1959, In U. S. District Court, Pittsburgh.

This means that Top Hoodlum SAMUEL MANNARINO may be found

to be implicated in two substantive matters within the

COVER PAGE

HW

45854 DocId: 32296124 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-228

PG 92-236

jurisdiction of the FBI. Because there is still considerable

investigation to conduct in both above-named cases and

because investigation in those cases in effect constitutes

investigation of the MANNARINO organization, it 1s felt that

the interest of the Bureau will best be served by concentra-

prosecutive action is completed,

submit reports In Instant matter every ninety days Instead

of the usual forty-five days.

INFORMANTS

PG T-I 1s PCI JAMES THORNTON MC CLOWRY, M.D., Springdale,

Pa., who furnished information to SA JOHN L. PUDDISTER on

June 9, 1959...

PG T-2 1s PCI CAMILLE NAFFAH, Murrysville, Pa., who furnished

information to SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, on June. 15, 1959.

PG T-3 1s PG. 580-C:

PG T-4 1s PAT SHAPERIO, prostitute, Pittsburgh (protect per

request), who furnished information to SA JOHN S. PORTELLA

on April 13, 1959.

PG T-5 1s ADOLPH PIVARSKI, letter carrier, U.S. Post Office,

New Kensington, Pa. (protect - employee of another govern-

mental agency), who furnished information to SAS RICHARD

GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III, on May 25, 1959.

PG T-6 IS PCI BILL DOBKIN, Pittsburgh, who furnished informa-

tion to SA PORTELLA on May 4, 1959.

PG T-7 is Confidential Source|

Pittsburgh, who

curnished information to SA PORTELLA on May

4, 1959.

PG T-& 1S LEON EPHSTEIN, jeweler, Pittsburgh (protect per

request), who furnished information to SA PORTELLA on May 6,

1959.

PG T-9 1s PCI

Altoona, Pa., who furnished

information to SA JOHN S. HUGHES on May 13, 1959.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

HW

45854 DocId: 32296124 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-228

PG 92-236

PG T-10 is PCI

New Kensington,

pa.,

furnished information to SA FORSYTH on June 11,

1959.

LEADS

OTHER 4

-who

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1.

Will concentrate on interviewing and developing those

individuals close to some phase of the operations of

the MANNARINO organization, some of whom have been set

out as interview leads in previous reports.

2. : Will continue to follow and report activities of

SAMUEL and GABRIEL MANNARINO and their subordinates and

associates..

3.

Will report results of check of Miami, Florida, telephone

number JE 4-4134 (lead to Miami by rerep, 5/4/59).

C

COVER PAGE

HW

45854 DocId: 32296124 Page 5

---

