# docid-32330212

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90089-10247

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-344127-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MD

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/08/1958

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO;

v9.1

DocId: 32330212

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

Reteasett under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"SECRET

MAY 14 1958

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

S

576/94

Classified by 5P8 mAc/GeL

Declassiv

On°

DADA TER)

Date:

To:

From:

Re:

May 8, 1958

Director, FBI

IA, Madrid, Spain (109-12)

ROLANDO NASFERRER ROJAS

Police Cooperation - Foreign Miscellaneous

Foreign Political Matter - Cuba

7-/

9-1

By report dated 4-15-58 and received in the Madrid Office on

4-28-58,

It. Col. Enilio Delgado, of the Internal Security Branch of the

Information Section of the Spanish High General Staff, furnished the

following information regarding a Cuban naned "Max Ferrer": (S)

From infornation received from persons proceeding from Hispano-

Quel men een ports, Includina Havani, it has been reported that a tubar named

an Anarchist and fighter in the International Brigade in the

Spain Spanish-Civil War,

was later in Russia and now holds, a post in the present

Suban Government. G

Nevertheless, he does not appear to be very closely allied to

Batista in that it is reported that he would like to join the Cuban rebels

and in this connection, he has tried to infiltrate the religious orders

and the secular clergy in order to attract them to the rebel camp.

He

took advantage of the letter of the ecclesiastical authorities asking

for a national concord to present his resignation from his government

post and to try to form a military junta.

He received no support from

either the military or political leaders.

Soon he appeared with a slight

wound and used it

as an alibi, saying that he had received it when he

tried to get into the Sierra Maestra to kill Fidel Castro.

It is believ-

Geotro ana inal they readed a poles a groan gotra va ta Fade

he above is a sumar of thie incoration tumned real.

7-10

Delgado! /The background furnished causes ne, to betevethat the" in-

formation probably refers to Cuban Senator Rolando

• Master

CDA: ems

(5)

X-135

MAY

BJUN 16 195

SECRET

DocId: 32330212

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act uf 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-11-2017

• wi

SECRET

L"Max Ferrer" having come from the first surname of the Senator. Bureau

files will reflect that Masferrer fought in the Spanish Civil War and

was a menber of the Partido Socialista Popular,

the CP of Cuba, for a

time thereafter.

He later allegedly broke with the CP of Cuba and holds

hinself forth as being very anti-Communist at the present time. (& )

It is the writer's personal recollection that Masferrer became

a Batista supporter immediately following the latter's coup d'etat on

3-10-52 and that there was nothing to indicate any change of feeling

thereafter.

However, Masferrer has always had the reputation of being

opportunist and completely unscrupulous, so it is not beyond the realm

of reason that if he considered it to be to his benefit, he would turn

against Batista®

ion which would tend to corroborate

Since Foe. Del on perested to ep runnished by hans ma-

extra copies of this letter are attached for forwarding by the Bureau

to the Havana Office. If it meets with Bureau approval, the Havana

Office is requested to furnish any information which may have come to

its attention that would tend to prove or disprove Co1. Delgado's reports)

SECRET

DocId: 32330212

Page 3

---

