# docid-32576588

## Page 1

4-3 (Rev. 12-14-64)

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM®

XX RADIO

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

De Loach

Casper -

Callahar

Conrad.

Felt

Gale -

Rosens

Sulliv

Tave *

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy.

J AIRGRAM

I TELETYPE

R-95

URGENT 2-24-65

TO DIRECTOR, NEW YORK, SAN DIEGO AND SAN FRANCISCO

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON-ENCODED

FROM LOS ANGELES

241740

LA COSA NOSTRA, ANTI-RACKETEERING -CONSPIRACY.

RE LOS ANGELES AIRTELS TO BUREAU, ET AL, JANUARY 15

LAST AND FEBRUARY 18 LAST.

ON NIGHT OF FEBRUARY 23 LAST, LA 4448 C-TE, FURNISHED

FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

INFORMANT HAD JUST BEEN TO RESIDENCE OF NICK LICATA,

"UNDERBOSS," LOS ANGELES "BRUGAD," LCN. WHILE THERE, LICATA

MENTIONED THAT HE HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH FRANK DESIMONE,

"BOSS," LOS ANGELES "BRUGAD" WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS.

LICATA TOLD INFORMANT THAT DESIMONE HAD BEEN GONE LONGER

THAN USUAL ON HIS RECENT TRIP "BACK EAST." LICATA ALSO SAID

DESIMONE HAD MADE VARIOUS STOPS IN CONNECTION WITH THIS TRIP.

THE ONLY STOP ME IDENTIFIED, HOWEVER, WAS PITTSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA

LICATA THEN TOLD INFORMANT THAT DESIMONE WAS "PLANNING

TO MEET SOMEONE OUT OF TOWN' ON SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 28 NEXT.

HE SAID HE WOULD PROBABLY BE BACK "WITHIN A DAY OR SO AFTER."

AFTER THAT, LICATA TOLD INFORMANT THAT DESIMONE HAD TO GO

"OUT EAST"' AGAIN FOR "ANOTHER MEETING."

NO ADDITIONAL SPECIFIOSS GIVEN. AS NOTED IN RE AIRTEL OF

RECS 92-6151-972

MAR 2 1965

4 MAR 1 1 1965

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45839 DooId: 32576588 Page 1

---

