# docid-32578780

## Page 1

Released under the John

C

Kennedy

Assassination Records

FD-288 (Rev. 5-1-39)

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NW 54027 Date:

FEDER - BUREAU OF IN VESP8-31-2017,J1V

REPORTING. OFFICE

LOFFICE OF ORIGIN

am CONAXDENTIAL

DATÉ

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

MIAMI

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

1/8/62 - 4/22/62

REPORT MADE BY

CHANGED:

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

TYPED BY

RJD: bam

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA

CHARACTER OF CASE

CRISTIANO DE CUBA

IS - CUBA

PUTTON CONCATNE

DECLASSTHLED BX

54494 1

UNCLASSIFIED

ENCEPT IERE SHOWN

OTHER 1 SE

The title of this report is being marked changed

to reflect the full and correct name of the organization

as reflected on the stationery of and propaganda put out

by the organization.

"MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATICO CRISTIANO" .

The title was previously carried as

REFERENCES:

Report of SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER dated 1/29/62,

at Miami.

"Movimiento DemocRaTA" Cristiano

LEADS

MIAMI:

Classified dy 586 8JA/601

Declassify op: DADR 730/85

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

Will continue to follow and report

activities of captioned organization.

APPROVED

COPIES MAD

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (97-4110) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

97-4110-34MCT-AI

3 - Miami (97-328)

REC- 58

4

MAY 10 1962

132

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY.

• REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

Copy to: CIA/state/RAO

by routing slip for ino:

BY-

HH 54027 DocId:32578780 Page 1

NOTATIONS

(mayin)

U.S. GOVERNMENT Pri TY!

SPENTIAL

---

## Page 2

MM 97-328

CENFIDKITIAL

LAITMSOINOS

2.

Will maintain contact with established

sources and informants currently furnishing information

concerning the organization.

3.

Will ascertain if this organization:

participates

in military training program in the Florida

Everglades.

INFORMANTS

Identity

Location

MM T-1 is MM 795-S

134-704

MM T-2 is MM 724-S

Instant file

MM T-3 1S MM 639-S

134-2388(4)

Careful consideration has been given

to each

source concealed in this report, and "T"

symbols were

utilized only in those instances where identities must

be concealed.

-B* -

COTER PAGE -

NW 54027 DooId:32578780

Page 2

---

