# docid-32989785

## Page 1

File #:

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA#_ NIA

62-05-539

Serial Scope:

16,18

19,2

NW

---

## Page 2

The Ambassador

July 29, 1977

Robert L. Moore

Legal Attache

DECLASSIFIED BY 9803 RADIa

9/22/93-

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

Otl

REPORTS IN POSSESSION OF THE

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

has been conducting extensive investigation into the

assassination of Martin Luther King, JI., and has made

• several requests of FBIHQ for various documents relating to:

the FBI investigation into the murder. It has been the

position of the FBI that information received from the ?

Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) reporting its investiga-

tion in this matteruis on a confidential basis and all

reference to the RCMP investigation has been deleted from

any responses by FBIHQ to the Committee.

On July 21, 1977, RCMP Ottawa advised that subsequent

to their denial of a request in March 1977 by the HSCA for

production of all RCMP records in this matter, a request was

received at the Canadian Embassy, Washington, D.C., concerning

the refusal. After several discussions with

their Canadian

External Affairs Department, the RCMP stated they would consider

answering specific questions if drafted by the Committee.

RCMP Ottawa advised that a list of questions had -

time.

A detailed study would be undertaken as soon as the

documents arrived in Ottawa.

On July 29, 1977, FBIHQ advised Legal Attache

that pursuant to a review of this matter at bida, It

i appears that on July 12, 1968, Legal Attache Ottawa was

advised that in view of the apprehension of James Earl Ray

on June 8, 1968,

and his prosecution to be undertaken by

Tennessee authorities,

it would be necessary to furnish

information to the Tennessee authoritie's that had been

obtained from the RCMP and other foreign law enforcement

agencies.

On July 18, 1968, former Legal Attache advised

FBIEQ that Assistant Cormissioner H. S. Cooper, Director of

Ambassador

Ottawa

•RIM. Ca

Cont 1

Fied.

144-314

62-55916

WW 55203 Doold: 32589785

Fage 2

---

## Page 3

Coa

Criminal Investigations, RCMP, had advised that there was

objection to furnishing

Tennessee authorities with any

information developed as a result of RCMP investigation. On

July 29, 1968, the former Legal Attache furnished FBIHQ with

a two-page

list of RCMP reports relating

available to Tennessee authorities. It is not clearat this

time at what time the documents were furnished to the Tennessee

authorities or the quantity of these documents.

The Memphis Office of the FBI has determined

from

the District Attorney's Office, Shelby County, Tennessee,

that in response to a subpoena from the ESCA all records

relating to this matter have been furnished to the Committee,

including the copies of the RCMP reports.

On this date, RCMP advised Legal Attache that the

Canadian Ministry Of External Affairs is fully aware of this

situation and RCMP is working closely with the Ministry in

preparing responses to the Committee. RCMP advise that it is

the position of the RCH, and, presumably, the Canadian govern-

ment, that it wishes to cooperate fully with the Comnittee

investigation; however, there may be various

questions which,

for one reason or another, may be unanswerable.

To date; there has been no publicity given to this

situation by either the Canadian or American press and the

RCMP has requested that the request of the HSCA be considered

confidential at this time.

Legal Attache will follow this matter and keep

you advised.

1 1 453 An

DECLASSFIED

XE05.T.

- 2-

-:

NW 55203

DocId: 32989785. Page 3

---

## Page 4

AIRTEL

CONFIDENTIAL

4/20/78

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

LEGAT, OTTAWA (62-539)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

DECLASSIFIED BY 2803 RODnE

03. 9/22/93.

(58K)

Congressman ROBERT EDGAR (D-Pa.), HSCA member,

travelled to Ottawa, Ontario, with three staff members and on

4/14/78 met with Deputy Solicitor General P.A. BISSONNETTE and

later met with RCMP officers, including the Officer in Charge

of Federal Policing Branch.

The purpose of Congressman EDGAR's trip was, according

to sources, to obtain a promise of cooperation from the Canadian

Government

in the HSCA investigation relating to JAMES EARL

RAY while he was in Canada.

Congressman EDGAR advised

Mx. BISSONNETTE that some investigative activity would be

directed toward determining if there had been any connection

between RAY and J.B. STONER and others of the National States

Rights Party.

Congressman EDGAR was received cordially by Mr.

BISSONNETTE but no definite commitments were made by the latter

beyond the desire of the Canadian Government to cooperate with

the U.S. Government whenever it is possible to do so.

Congressman EDGAR got off to a bad start at RCMP

Headquarters with an initial remark that one of the purposes

of HSCA investigation was "to inquire into the adequacy of the

4 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison)

_? - Ottawa (cc: 44-4)

CONFIDYNTIAL

RLM: fo

(6)

Classified De/145- 3 AIm

Lategory.

1.3

aslefinito

NW 55203 DocId: 32989785 Page 4

Fussoman*:

62-539-18

---

## Page 5

OTT 62-539

CONFIDNTIAL

(prior) investigation." He was informed that the RCMP considered

the prior investigation to be adequate in every degree and

Congressman EDGAR made repeated efforts to explain away the

remark.

RCMP agreed to assist the HSCA by making available

any of its members for interview; attempting to locate persons

previously interviewed by RCMP and determine if the person was

greeable to interview by HSCA investigators, in the presence o1

RCMP; and doing name checks on any new names surfaced in the

HSCA investigation.

RCMP did not agree to allowing HSCA to review

its files, to conduct any new investigation for the ESCA Or

allow the

committee to conduct any investigation in Canada.

Congressman EDGAR was told that any requests for investigation in

Canada must be presented to the

RCMP through the FBI or through

diplomatic channels.

CORPIOENTIAL

----

- 2-

NW 55203

DocId: 32989785

Page 5

---

## Page 6

visiterine dies

5

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Washington, D.C. 20520

March 17, 1978

FAT INFORATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE: 10/21/92 BY 4803

NW 55203 DocId: 32989785

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

H - Mr. Schnee

BUR/CAN - John HI. Rouse, JE

Request of Select Committee on Assassinations

for Information from Canada

Percy Sherwood, Counselor of the Canadian Embassy,

called on me March 17. to convey the Canadian Government

response to the request of the Select Committee for a

meeting with RCMP officials to facilitate Committee

investigations in Canada:

Sherwood said that the Canadian Government had

approved direct RCMP cooperation with the Committee

as follows: 1)RCMP officials would be prepared to hold

an exploratory meeting in early April with Committee

staff to review investigation plans and work out

agreed procedures.

2) On agreed terms thereafter,

to assist in facilitating Committee interviews with

residents of Canada on a voluntary basis.

Percy said the RCMP is prepared to use the

tentative investigation plan of the Committee as a

basis for discussions without prejudice as to the extent

and nature of the cooperation that might eventually be

agreed to.

(Congressman Edgar had given a copy of this

plan to Ambassador Towe during his March 14 call.)

Sherwood suggested that the initial neeting. involve

perhaps two Committee staff members for a day, or two if

necessary.

He asked that the Committee suggest alternate

dates early in April that

could be passed back to the RCMP;

he promised a prompt response.

For background (which can be passed on to the

Committee in a tentative way) Sherwood indicated that the

Committee investigation plan itself presents difficulties

for the GOC.

It appears to overlook the comments earlier

made by Canada as to the limits on additional information

that might be made available from official files and the

limited role that the RCMP might be able-to-playin

locating individuals. The RCMP cannot samany openelip-

its files for general review.

Nor does

power to conduct extensive, openmended add late prie

LEGAL ATTACHE - OTTAWA

Page 6

62-539-19554

---

## Page 7

-2-

individuals. The RCMP would like the Committee to

identify people they wish to interview, where they might

be found, and the line of questioning that is proposed.

It would then try to contact these individuals and

inquire as to their willingness to be interviewed. The

RCMP would also offer to be present or allow anyone of

the witnesses' choosing to be present if they wished.

the RCMP thinks it unlikely that the 6 or 7 people

nentioned in the Committee's investigation plan can

be located or, if located, will be willing to testify

about events 10 years old on which they have already

been interviewed by the RCMP.

However, they are prepared

to inquire at the behest of the Committee.

All of this can be discussed and worked out

directly during the

initial meeting with Committee staff.

Action requested: Please pass the above to the

appropriate Committee staff and ask the Committee to

suggest dates for a meeting in Ottawa in early April.

It would also be useful if we could give the Canadian

Embassy the names of the two staff members who will be

participating.

The Embassy will telephone Congressman

Edgar this afternoon to let him know they have passed

a positive response to the State Department, so you may

wish to convey this information as early as possible.

If you will let me have the Committee response on

dates and participation, I will pass it to the Canadian

Embassy•

NW 55203 DocId: 32989785 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-

AIRTEL

CONFIDENTIAL

6/8/78

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

LEGAT, OTTAWA (62-539)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS (ESCA)

ATTN :

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY

UNIT - RECORDS

MANAGENENT DIVISION

DECLASSIFIED aY 9803 ROE/mA

9/22/3-000995

ReOTTairtel 4/20/78.

our staff members of HSCA recently completed

interviewing a number of RCMP porsonnel at RCtIP Headquarters who

had been associated with the James Earl Ray investigation in

Canada. According to RCMP sources, nothing unusual was discussed

and the members were not asked any questions that would indicate

that any new material had been uncovered by the staff members,

who were very amiable and courteous throughout the contacts.

The RCMP is now in the process of contacting approxi-

mately 50 residonts of Canada, who were interviewed by the RCNP

during the course of the investigation, to determine if they would

be willing to be interviewed in Canada by HSCA staif members.

The Canadian Government has taken the position that

no federal employee, with exception of RiP personnel, can be

made available for interview and, therefore, people such as the

person(s) who accepted application for and issued Canadian

passport cannot be interviewed.

4 - Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison)

2 - Ottava (cc: 44-4)

CONFID

ENTIAL

RLA: 10'

(6)

chair of 5 3 gum

s, Category

- Indefinite

iScorchnd..

Ir."

8163-97-=-

42-5=:-21

NW 55203 DocId: 32989785 Page 8

---

