# docid-32317586

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10353-10323

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-114

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/02/1962

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317586

Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: (Adv.48-39567

FBI

Date: 8/2/62

Transmit the following in

_ PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

TELETYPE

URGENT

(Priority. or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (92-113C)

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR.

LA FOUR TWO SIX EIGHT DASH C ADVISED THAT ON JULY THIRTY ONE

LAST WHEN MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN MADE TELEPHONE CALL TO LOUIS

VIEDERER, FROM FRIAR-S CLUB ROSSELLI TOLD FRIEDMAN TO TELL

QUOTE HIM UNQUOTE TO GET OUT HERE AND BRING THAT ATTORNEY.

INFORMANT ADVISED HE SAW ROSSELLI AT FRIAR-S CLUB,

BEVERLY HILLS, CALIFORNIA, AI ABOUT FOUR FIFTEEN P.M. ON

AUGUST ONE LAST. AT ABOUT SEVEN FIFTEEN P.M. ROSSELLI REMARKED

HE WAS GOING TO TAKE STEAM BATH AND THEN GO HOME.

WHILE AT FRIAR-S CLUB ON AUGUST ONE LAST ROSSELLI WAS

WITH MAURICE FRIEDMAN AND RALPH MARKS. MARKS TOLD INFORMANT

HE LOST THREE OR FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS.

ROSSELLI TOLD DALE ROBERTSON, TV ACTOR, NOT TO FORGET

THEIR DATE ON AUGUST TWO INSTANT AT SEVEN P.M. AT PERINO-S

RESTAURANT. FRIEDMAN THEN . REEMPHASIZED PERINO ENGAGEMENT.

ROBERTSON TOLD INFORMANT HE WAS CURRENTLY IN THE BUSINESS

SCARCHED

OF LENDING MONEY.

- LOS

Angeles

HED: deb

(1)

INSEXED

SER A2 2301

FILED

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

10-49 pM

Per ach

92-1136-114

DocId: 32317586 Page 2

---

