# docid-32310729

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10307-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-637

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/21/1962

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, BUSS ASSOC, AKA, EMP, GANGLAND SLAYING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32310729 Page 1

301

---

## Page 2

4-41• (Rey: 6-2-61)

L

Radio

DEFERRED

DECODED COPY

ALL INFORMATIO" CONTAINED

HEKEM IS U

DATE 4-20-84 BYSPSR56/c, a Teletype

2-21-62

4:52 AM

RJL

Tolson

Belmont

Callahan

Conrad

DeL oa

(alone

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy:

TO

DIRECTOR

AND SAC, MIAMI

FROM

SAC, CHICAGO

210433

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

RE PROPOSED

MEETING OF HOODLUMS, MIAMI, FLORIDA, FEBRUARY 1 THROUGH 9,

1962. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONTAINED IN CHICAGO FILES

RE ESPOSITO AS FOLLOWS: FRANK S. ESPOSITO, AKA FRANKIE X.

AGE: 62, IS PRESIDENT OF DISTRICT COUNCIL OF CONSTRUCTION AND

GENERAL LABORERS. BOSSES 35,000 MEN IN 18 LOCALS OF THE

INTERNATIONAL HOD CARRIERS, BUILDING AND COMMON CARRIERS

UNION. ANONYMOUS LETTER RECEIVED CHICAGO OFFICE AUGUST 1961,

CONTAINED INFORMATION WHICH SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION PROVED

RELIABLE, IN PART, STATED JOHN MATTASSA, FORMER CHICAGO

POLICEMAN AND CURRENT BODYGUARD AND CHAUFFEUR OF GIANGANA, ON

PAYROLL OF ESPOSITO, IN ADDITION TO PHIL ALDERISIO, JOEY O'BRIEN,

AND WILLIE DADDANO, ALL PROMINENT CHICAGO HOODLUMS AND

LIEUTENANTS OF GIANCANA.: INVESTIGATION OF LOUIS BRIATTA, MAY

1961, REFLECTED BRIATTA MADE LONG DISTANCE CALL TO ESPOSITO

MARCH 19, 1961, AT HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA, RESIDENCE TELEPHONE A

VA 3-6320. BRIATTA IS LIEUTENANT OF CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM, GUS

ALEX, AND REPORTEDLY MAKES ALL HANDBOOK COLLÉCTIONS FOR ALEX

IN FIRST WARD (LOOP AREA) "CHICAGO TRIBUNE" REPORTED

SEPTEMBER 1960, ESPOSITO SCHEDULED-FOR "HEART-TO-HEART TALKI

WITH HIS LIEUTENANT, AL PILOTTO, BECAUSE PILOTTO NAMED BY

SOUTH SUBURBAN BEER DISTRIBUTOR IN ACCARDO TAX TRIAL AS

ASSISTANT TO TONY ACCARDO SELLING BEER IN CALUMET CITY AND

CHICAGO HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS. PILOTTO DESCRIBED AS HEAD OF

REGE

.14

92-311-631

9 FEB 26

62

6 8 MARO 1362

9 pa

as it be suitably

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminaied outside the Bureau, it is su

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId:32310729 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1-41 (Revd 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

10100

Susan.

• Radio

∞ Teletype

PAGE 2 FROM CHICAGO

210433

LOCAL 5, CHICAGO, FOR ESPOSITO AND FORMER BODYGUARD FOR SOUTH

SUBURBAN SYNDICATE CHIEF, FRANK LA PORTE, GERALD J. COVELLI,

WHILE UNDER INDICTMENT FOR ITSMV VIOLATION, HOUSTON, AUGUST

1959, CLAIMED ESPOSITO ALLIED WITH CHICAGO "OUTFIT." ONCE

REQUESTED COVELLI TO ARRANGE PROPERTY PURCHASE IN CHICAGO

FOR WHICH TREMENDOUS PROFIT PLANNED BY ESPOSITO AFTER FEDERAL

LOAN OBTAINED TO PUT UP BUILDING. PROFIT WOULD DEPEND ON

INFLATED MATERIAL, PRICES AND KICKBACKS. HOWEVER, PLAN

FAILED TO MATERIALIZE. INFORMATION FURNISHED BY CG 5680-0

DECEMBER 1947, REVEALED ESPOSITO IN TELE-PHONIC CONTACT

WITH PAUL DE LUCIA, A PROMINENT CHICAGO HOODLUM NOW UNDER

DEPORTATION PROCEEDINGS AT CHICAGO. ALTHOUGH ABOVE INFORMA-

TION ILLUSTRATES ESPOSITO'S AFFILIATION WITH HOODLUM INTEREST,

APPARENT REASON FOR PROPOSED GANGLAND SLAYING NOT EVIDENT TO

CHICAGO OFFICE AND PESTIGATION IN THIS REGARO CONTINUED

CHICAGO OFFICE AND BUREAU AND MIAMI WILL BE ADVISED.

CHICAGO PCI, OBSERVED GIANCANA IN FRONT OF ARMORY

LOUNGE THIS AFTERNOON, WALKING IN EASTERLY DIRECTION TO PINK

CLOCK, ANOTHER HOODLUM HANGOUT. CG 6486-C* REPORTS NO

ACTIVITY TODAY. GIANCANA ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

6:18 AM.

RN

OTHER 4

16851 14ist

Pate inelligence col red in the above mergo to pa be seminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that is be suitably

NW 45792 DocId: 32310729 Page 3

---

