# docid-32286447

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10223

HQ

92-3171-2120

Reteered ander the dear

Kerred.

144 C20 2200 Febel.

Laeg=: 7 45-32 Caze:

-=6-252-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/22/1967

16

SGI, ASSOC, RES, ACT, REL, WHEREABOUTS, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792

DocId: 32286447 Page 1

111

---

## Page 2

JFK ACt 6 (4)

CG 92-349

INFORMANTS

Source

CG I-I

CG T-1

PCI

CG T-2

X-170 2 (и)

CG T-3

JOAN BANNISTER

Secretary, Bureau of

Narcotics,

American

Embassy,

Mexico City

Mexico

CG T-4

OM TÄ8-C-TE

CG

T÷5

CG 7184-PC

CG T-6

CG 6690-C-TE

CG T-7

CG 7100-PC

CG T-8

SD 1064-C-TE

CG T-9

A R. WICHTRICH,

Executive V.P.

American Chamber

of Commerce in Mexico

Date Contacted

On numerous occasions during

September, October,

& Novem-

ber, 1967, to SA WILLIAM F.

ROEVER, JR.

september 18, 1967, to Legat.

•Mexico City

September 20, 1967, to Legat

•Mexico, City

September 1, 1967, to SA

JOHN A. ANDERSON, Omaha Division

September

28, 1967, to SA

LOGAN C. PICKERL

September 26, 1967, to SA

LENARD A. WOLF

November 8,

1967, to SA

WILLIAM F. ROEMER,, JR.

July

1967, to Agent of San

September 8, 1967,

to

Legat, Mexico City

- B*

COVER P

128=19553

NW 45792 DooId: 32206447 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-349

CONFID.

advised that the owner of this residence came and went from

Cuernavaca at odd times and at odd hours.

She stated that

he had a bank account at the Banco Nacional, Cuernavaca.

She noted that he received numerous phone calls.

She de-

scribed the house as luxuriously furnished as if done by

an interior decorator

to whom expense was no object s

On September 20, 1967, a representative of the

Mexican Immigration Department, advised that investigation

at Nubes Number 2 leads the Mexican Government to the

definite conclusion that it was GIANCANA who was residing

at Nubes Number 2 in Cuernavaca, and arrangements have been

made by the Mexican Government so that 1I he returns,

GIANCANA will be detained

' and

deported. PC

Whereabouts of GIANCANA outside the United States

CG T-4, who is in a position of authority in

organized crime in a city other than Chicago, Illinois,

advised that he has been informed by leaders of organized

crime in Chicago, that GIANCANA is believed to be in

MEXICO.

but there is speculation also that he may be in

Peru. U

CG T-5 advised that he learned during the latter

part of September, 1967, from a top leader of organized

crime in the Chicago area, that as of that time, GIANCANA

was in Caracas, Venezuela. U

CG T-6 advised that he has heard from leaders

of organized crime in Chicago that RICHARD CAIN has pur-

chased a large home in Columbia or Peru, and intended to

move there shortly. This informant stated that he knows that

CAIN is very close to SAM GIANCANA and he therefore suspects

that if CAIN

purchased a large home, that home is probably

GIANCANA 'S.

This informant stated that CAIN is a very vicious

man

who allegedly has killed four or five people

CG T-7 advised in early November,

1967,

that he

has received information from a close relative of GIANCANA

that as of that time, GIANCANA continues to reside outside

of the United States.

The informant gained the impression

that this location was in Mexico.

The informant stated that

the relative of GIANCANA indicated that the reason for

GIANCANA's continued absence from the United States is his

belief that he will again be

subpoenaed before the Federal

Grand Jury and offered immunity. U

-4-

CONFIDENTIAG

92-3170-212

NW 45792 DocId: 32206447

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONT

CG 92-349

On November 2, 1967, HARRY JUDD, Personnel

Director, U.

S. Gypsum

Company, Chicago, Illinois, ad-

vised that DEPALMA commensed employment as an accountant

at the U. S. Gypsum Company, on April 11, 1967, following

his graduation from the University of Illinois, located

at Navy Pier, Chicago, Illinois, in 1967. He currently

is assigned to the Cost Reporting Department of U. S. Gyp-

DEPALMA was born on

July 26, 1944, and his Social Security Number is 346-36-4302..

He is 6'

tall, 237 pounds, black hair, swathy complexion.

He has a Bachelor of Science Degree from Illinois, having

majored in marketing.

He was graduated from the St. Ignatius

High School and the Blessed Agnes Grammer School, in Chicago.

He has drivers license D145-4214-4212.

The person who al-

ways know his current address is one DAN VILLAND, 1916 South

51st Avenue, Cicero. He was recommended for employment

through the

Olympic Employment Agency. He formerly was

employed by the Morton Cab Company, from July, 1965, to

Crosby Street,

December, 1965 chicago.

and Tby the National Tea Company at 1000

He gives a personal reference as

one MICHAEL SHERIDAN, 5501 West 25th Place, Cicero.. His

current draft status

Is 1-Y, alter having been rejected by

the Army dué to a "pinned hip."

His full name is JEROME

ANTHONY DEPALMA. When the records of the U. S. Gypsum Com-

Ion Delubany reflect his address only as ?139 South Millard, N

JUDD: was informed that investigation at that address had

just determined that DEPALMA no longer resides there, since

he had recently married FRANCINE GIANCANA. Mr. JUDD there-

upon made contact with DEPALMA through his supervisor and

determined that he is currently residing at 3771 Ivanhoe

Circle,

Schiller Park, Illinois, where he has telephone num-

ber 671-2487.

ss + 346-36-4503

BERGIT CLARK

born JuLy 261944°

JFK Law 10(a\2

As has been previously reported, Mrs. BERGIT CLARK

for sometime was the paramour of SAM GIANCANA

This

is the Grand Jury before which GIANCANA appeared

and refused

to accept immunity leading to his incarceration in the Cook

County Jail from May of 1965, until June of 1966.

On September 27, 1967,

the Los Angeles Office of the

Federal Bureau-of Investigation

telephonically advised that

a armed robbery occurred at the

Lakin Et Cie Company, Los Angeles,

GANG

-7-

92-3171-2128102 10ss3

NW 45792 DooId: 32206447 Page 4

---

