# docid-32298772

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/2/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10052

HQ

162-589-54, 55, 56, 57

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45960 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEE, IVAN D.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/28/1964

PAGES:

22

SUBJECTS :

JEST, ASSOC, REL, GAMBLERS, RES, TELCAL, BKG,

BOOKMAKING ACT, INTV, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC 2 MEMO, RPT

y9.1

14 45960

DocId: 32298772

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 162-37

if STONE continues to spend most of his time at the restaurant.

It is noted that during the last several weeks

STONE has been

at the restaurant on almost a daily basis.

2. Will obtain toll calls for STONE's residence and

the restaurant and set out appropriate leads from the information

received.

INFORMANTS:

: DL T-1 is DL 181-C

ADMINISTRATIVE:

During the interview of STONE on 2/19/65, STONE expressed

respect for the FBI in that they "operate on facts while the IRS

operates on directives and their own interpretations of what an

individual is actually doing".

STONE also expressed his dislike

for the Italian element indicating that PHILLIP BOSCO, who is

making book in the Dallas area is one of the individuals responsible

for IRs convicting him for making book without the tax stamp.

or making

Regarding the tehephonic contact from STONE's residence

it appears that STONE's daughter, JIMMIE LOU STONE,

calls to Dr. SUGGETT's son, BILL

SUGGETT, and has no connection

in any matter with bookmaking or gambling.

_ B*

Cover Page

551-10025

HH 45960

DocId: 32298772

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 162-37

(2) Will also conduct spot surveillance to

determine STONE's activities and contacts.

(3) Will continue to obtain toll calls charged to

known telephones available to STONE.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that the investigtive period is extensive,

however, this report contains information from auxiliary offices

which was receiv after the submission of rerep.

No leads are being set forth in this report for offices

to check toll calls as set forth in the details in that they

were set out in relet and have been previously identified.

Surveillances as mentioned in details, were

conducted by SA ROBERT M. BARRETT and SA IVAN D. LEE.

The information concerning toll calls as set forth

in details was obtained from Mrs. BULA SETTLE, Secretary,

Officeof the Security Supervisor, Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company, Dallas, Texas.

A review of the toll calls charged to the telephone

number of subject's sister, MARY LOU MILLION at Apartment 101,

3909 Inwood Road, reveals no pertinent calls which could have

been

made by the subject.

It is noted that the toll calls made available

were through September 4 and STONE was not known to use that

apartment prior to the latter part of September, 1964. The

telephone number for MARY LOU MILLION is FL 7-9083.

INFORMANTS

REVIEWED BY SNUFK TASK FORCE

ON

2t.98 del:

RELEASE IN MUL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

DL T-1 is DL 208-PC.

DL T-2 is JAMES GANN, SA Intelligence Section,

IRS, Dallas (requested identity protected).

DI T-3 is JAMES SALES, PCI.

DL T-4 is CSLA4178-S.

DL T-5 is G.

S. VANCE, Manager, Inter-Mountain

Telephone

Company, Bristol,

Virginia, who requested

identity be protected.

COVER*

PAGE

554-10025

45960

Doc

32298772

Page

3

---

