# docid-32334630

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10336

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-116

released under the John F

ennedy

Assassination

Collection Act of 1992

Records

144

53074 Date:

2102N0+55-3052814

Case#: NT

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SL

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

• PAGES:

PATE: 03/01/196

SUBJECTS:

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

KAY 53074 DocId: 32331630

Page 1

25

---

## Page 2

.::

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

St. Louis, Missour1

March 1, 1965

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 384 BYSP8.B79/6

"MINUTEMEN"

Reference 1s made to St. Louis menorandur February 17,

1965, concerning "Minutenen".

On February 23, 1965, a source, who has furnished

reliable information in

the past, advised that Roy DePung had

on that date in St. Louis County, Missouri, a new Chevrolet

Station Wagon in which there were parts of a gun. Source

stated that he observed the stock, trigger, trigger guard, and

a magazine, which, according to Depung, will hold thirty shells.

The barrel

of the gun was not observed and DePung commented that

he does not carry this because to do so might constitute a

violation of law.

DePung went on to say that he had recently tried

out six machine guns in southeastern Missouri and evidently

this was done to insure that they were in opersting condition.

Thereafter, apparently over the weekend of February 13-14, 1965,

Edward Arthur of Columbus, Ohio, came to St. Louis and got the

machine guns.

in his station wagon.

weapon and can either be fired automatic or semi-automatic.

13321233

would not give Arthur the reapon

He then went on to say it is a .30 caliber

DePung made no comments as to the purpose for which

Arthur acquired the weapons, nor where ke may have transported

them.

On February 10, 1965, source previously advised that

Arthur resides in Columbus, Obio, where he heade an organization

known as Americans for Freedom.

He was further described as

1' located 1

eing "in constant contact with Commando) f U49/-11

SEARCHED

PROPERIY OE IBI

• This communication and its contents are

SEMAIZE MINE ON

loaned to you by the FBi, and noither it

MAR

3 1965

nor its contents are to be distributed

FBI - MIAMI

outside of the agency to which loaned.

LOW NING

NN 53074 DocId: 32334630

Page 2

---

