# docid-32334586

## Page 1

--

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10292

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-76

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N" 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KELLOGG

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 12/14/1964

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334586

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MEMO SAC (105-4921)

12/14/64

MINUTEMEN

INFORMATION CONCERNING

PETER VITCHER

1825 Meadow Court, West Palm Beach, Fla.,

telephone 965 0033, advised he had received the following in the mail:

A letter, bering no return address, postmarked 11/7/64 in

West Palm Beach. Inside the first envelope was a second envelope which

was blank. In the second envelope was a handbill captioned "This Is

Communism", which handbill cautioned that this too could happen in the

U.S. and concluded "To learn what you, as an individual American, can do

to help fight communism,

Minutemen, P.O.Box 68, Norborne, Missouri." Also in this second, inside

th this son, to

envelope Was a paper printed on

both sides. One side was captioned

Tidings-Los Angeles, March 30, 1962-Blueprint for Wordd

Communism." The other side

was Captioned "World Government Plan - Alien

Troops to

Police HISA". This second side carried in a block in the lower

right hand corner "The Network of Patriotic Letter Writers,

P.0.Box

2003 D, Pasadena, California (3z cents each, 100 for $2.50)*.

Shortly thereafter he received a letter postmarked 11/14/64 at

WHo Peace Foundatishamped "printed matter" and bearing the retur address

.P.n.Box 800, Hollywond. Inside this envelope was

a second

envelope which wis blank on the outside and was wrapped in

aluminum foil. Inside this second envelope were the following:

1. A one page document captioned "Practical security measures"

setting forth 20 guides concerning security precautions.

2. A copy of "On Taryet" dated 10/1/64 and published by

Minutemen, Norborne, Missouri.

3. A pamphlet entitled "commUNism" published by the committee

to free the Korean War Prisoners, Independence, Messouri.

number of small stickers bearing caption "U.S. forever -

U.N. never"

document captaoned "Toe prospective members of the

Minut emen"

105-4921-76

6. A document captioned "A short history of the Minutemen".

7. A membership application form for dinutemen.

SEARCHED_

INDEXED.

1 - Miami

SERIALIZED...

* FILED.

RIK/rok ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DEC 1 6.1964

FBI — IMMI

HEREIN IS UACLASSIFIED

DATE 1/8/84

211.

g/a

le m

treh

pointiN

HH 53074 DocId:32334586 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-

He later received a letter with no return address postmarked

11/18/64 in Miami, Pla.• This envelope contained in it a blank envelope

wrapped in a sheet

or plain orange paper.

The second envelope contained

a copy of "On Target" dated 11/4/64; 2 membership application forms

for Minutemen; a sticker saying "I am a card carrying

American" put

out by Americans for freedom,

Santa Barbara, California; and a blank

envelope bearing return address of Peace Foundation, Hollywood, Fla..

VETCHER said he did

not know whos

sent him these items and he

did not know how they got his name uless it was through some letters

to the Editor he has written. He was not more specific about his letters

to the Editor.

He is not known to SAs in the West Palm Beach R/A.

The files of the Palm Beach County Credit Bureau, West Palm

report on VETCHER showing no

Beach, rewealed only a Nay, I962fetired from the U.S. Army äfter at

occupation and indicating he is

least 20 years

If further action desired or additional background info re

VETCHER desired, request lead be set to writer.

Described items submitted for file.

Richard B. Kellogg

Special Agent

1H 53074 DocId: 32334586

Page 3

---

