# docid-32292763

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10039

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-11305-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

COLARELLI, THOMAS L

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

06/10/1969

216

SUBJECTS :

CM, AMA, ASSOC, SWINDLE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 3

v9.1

HW 45865

DocId: 32292763

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

DONALD LESTER

JAMES, aka

Jimmy James;

ELDON JUNIOR LEGAN, aka

DATE N

6/10/69

REPORT MADE BY

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTISATIVE PERIOD

5/22/69 - 6/9/69

Eldon Legan;

JOSEPH ROBERT PROVENZANO (IN), aka

Joseph Provenzano, Jr.,

POSSIBLE ITSP, OCI

Junior Provenzano;

1 (TITLE CONTINUED COVER PACE B)

Title is marked "CHANGED" to reflect PROVENZANO's +

true name.

REFERENCES:

New Orleans teletypes to the Bureau, 5/22, 23/65

New Orleans aittel to the Bureau, 5/24/69.

-

TYPED BY

nmb

8

LEADS:

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

All receiving offices, contact logical sources to

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

IX NONE

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

SAVINGS

RECOVERiES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES XINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

• IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

-. Bureau

(92-11305)

1 - Departmental

Atty., N.0., La.

2. - Birmingham

2 - Chicago

(COPIES CONTINUED COVER PAGE' B)

4 - New Prleans (92-1029)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

CORTES DESTROYED

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

2 6 DEC 6

1974

How Fwd.

BY 57 9 JUN 25 1969

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

12-11505-

12

12 JUN 16. 1969

REC 83

Notations

This son.

COVER PAGE

NW 45865 DocId:32292763 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1

NO 92-1029

JLS: slt/ nmb

The following investigation was conducted at Gretna,

Louisiana, on June 6, 1969, by Special Agent J. Lob

SAVILLE:

Mr. JOE ODDO, Manager, The Malibu, 4th Street,

Marrero (protect identity), advised that he

had obtained his

most recent Jefferson Parish Health Card from Dr. R. T. RIBANDO,

approximately six months ago. ODDO stated that

he had not

undergone any tests for this card and that it had just been

issued to him directly by RIBANDO... He stated that it was

fairly common for RIBANDO to issue phony health caras to

"characters" on the West Bank, most of whom were employed in

bars in the 4th Street area.

On 5/24/69 PCI

advised that he had

talked to JUNIOR PROVENZANO that date and

that PROVENZANO had

provided the following information:

PROVENZANO, ELDON LEGAN, Dr. RIBANDO, Dr. CARUSO, and

CLYDE BOURGEOIS had been swindled out of $110,000 the previous

Thursday in Ferriday, La.

They had been planning to purchase

some stolen diamonds. PCI asked PROVENZANO if he had been

involved in the swindle. PROVENZANO stated he was not involved

and that he had lost some money also. PCI asked if JACKI PIZZI

was involved, and PROVENZANO also denied that. PCI noted that

at that time

PROVENZANO was not wearing his large diamond ring

which contains à 54 carat stone. PCI noted that PROVENZANO

was not wearing the ring prior to traveling to Ferriday. PCI

advised that BUDDY PIZZI was in Marrero about one week before

the swindle took place. He stated. that BUDDY and JACKI PIZZI

are known to be swindlers and con artists. He has never seen

the PIZZIS

in direct contact with PROVENZANO; however, he

observed BUDDY. PIZZI talking to CHINK (LNU), who runs the

middle bar in the Moulin Rouge for PROVENZANO. PCI believes

that the PIZZIS are probably involved in the swindle, and that

JIMMY JAMES may also be involved, since they have been known

to work together.

OTHER 4

E

COVER PAGE

HW

45865 DocId: 32292763 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-1029

that JAMES and PIZZI pulled a swindle similar to the

Ferriday swindle in Chicago sometime since December, 1968,

in which they obtained $140,000: MORRIS has no further

details concerning that operation.

MORRIS advised that

JAMES is using that money to pay off his legal fees

regarding a gambling charge.

JOE ODDO told PCI that the man who went to the

Malibu Lounge Tuesday evening to get JUNIOR PROVENZANO was

JOE MARCELLO. ELDON LEGAN had been picked up that same

evening and

they were not even taken back to the Malibu,

but were dropped off at the hospital in Marrero, where

LEGAN received medical attention for a cut arm.

PCI also

stated that one reason that CARLOS MARCELLO was unhappy

about the whole situation was that JUNIOR PROVENZANO called

ROCK HEBERT and CARLOS long distance the day the swindle

took place in Ferriday.

NO 1734-C-TE advised on 5/26/69 that

CARLOS MARCELLO received a telephone call from

CLYDE BOURGEOIS, and MARCELLO left almost immediately to

meet with BOURGEOIS at BOURGEOIS' residence.

Source

advised that MARCELLO was accompanied by NICK NUCCIO in

NUCCIO's car. Informant stated that NICK NUCCIO is

associated with CARLOS brother ANTHONY MARCELLO in several

newsstands in the city. He further advised that

NICK NUCCIO is the brother of Joe NUCc1o, who in turn is

closely associated with SAMMY MARCELLO, CARLOS' youngest

brother.

Source advised that NUCCIO drives a dark-colored

Pontiac, and utilized this vehicle to take MARCELLO to the

BOURGEOIS residence. Source advised that when MARCELLO

returned from this meeting, he told the source not to get

involved in the situation, and he himself was not getting

involved, because there were too many people interested in

the situation.

G

COVER PAGE

HW 45865 DocId: 32292763

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-1029

On 6/9/69 ANTHONY BARLOTTA (NO 92-931) confidentially

advised SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI and SA J. LEE SAVILLE that it

was HAYES "DUKE" DUGAS (NO 92-882) who picked up

JUNIOR PROVENZANO out of the Malibu Lounge on 5/27/69. He

stated it was his understanding that DUGAS was acting on his

own, rather than at CARLOS MARCELLO's direction, because

DUGAS wanted "a piece of the action;" meaning the loot. He

stated that ELDON LEGAN has been out of town for three or

four days, and he personally did not expect to see him return.

However, since he has returned, he (BARLOTTA) has concluded

that PROVENZANO must have gotten his share of the loot,

because LEGAN and PROVENZANO are acting too much like guilty

parties since the swindle.

He stated that it is LEGAN who is keeping

PROVENZANO quiet.

He stated that all you would have to do

to get PROVENZANO to talk would be to lock him in jail for

72 hours and he would tell you anything you wanted to know.'

ADMINISTRATIVE:

An extra copy of this report is being furnished to

the Bureau in view of the hoodlum interest.

H*

COVER. PAGE

NH

45865

DocId: 32292763 Page 5

---

