# docid-32340000

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90154-10029

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-29-85

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/19/1958

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MICHAEL MCLANEY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

• DocId: 32340000

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releasedander the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Can STANDARD. FORM NO. 64

Efie Mem

TO

SUM • UNITED STATES GOVERNME

i Mr.

Wir.

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-5714-297

ATTENTION:

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR A. ROSEN

DATE: December

79, 1

Mr. olloi

Miss Canda

SUBJECT:

SAC, MIAMI (62-1273)

Top Hoodlum PRotham

MIAMI WINTER SEASON

• 1958 - 1959

Re Bureau airtel dated 8/13/58.

Sta

BLING

—MM-647-PC advised he received intormation that

≤ FRANKADIOGUARDI, wa., Frankie Dio, Miami Beach Police

Fla.

Department Number 29553, is connected with JOHN

operation of bookmaking and shylocking operatión. He stated

-FLINK operates the Ande Hill Bar near Dore's Restaurant on

Sunny Isles]Boulevard, Dade County, and also contemplates

opening a store on Sunny Isles Boulevard for the purpose of

having card-games and gambling. He related FLINK claims his

bookmaking operation is successful and further claims that..

he has "Somerconnection with the Sheriff's Office. This e

connectionwas not amplified, according to MM-647-PC;

Ti

WEn respect to DIo, he stated Nick Lust omen

of the La Rosa Restaurant on Sunny Isles recently paid off.

DIO with thensum of $3,000.00 for the latter's previous

interest in that restaurant.

MM-509-C stated MICHAEL COPPOLA, wa., Trigger Mike

FBI Number 677976, a New Yorkthoodlum connected with the

numbers rackets there-who if now a resident of Miami Beagh

continues to spend the

greater (portion of the day playing

Individualbiknow

only as LIVELY.

The informant stated

hatshe has observed tha

2))

- Budeau

RFF: mbb

115°

52 SAN

REC-

. 24

2-9-39

DEC 53 215500

EX. - 124

==..

_copies made

2l0/8 156

12.

Moden

TBIRd by

8 1959HSA 12222 rogues:

'(See Buffle /03-117290)

2 N0 14 20

DocId: 32340000 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under- the John F. Kentedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 62-1273

at the present time there is very little horse booking

taking place at this club.

He said the various bookies and

bettors who frequent the

club do not use the telephones there

but leave and use the telephones in the drug stores and barber

shops located in the immediate area and further they use the

bookmaking facilities of George's Newsstand, 23rd and Liberty,

Miami Beach.

It was determined that although the telephone is

listed to the Midtown Social Club, the name of HERMAN BERNSTEIN

is listed as having some interest in this club. According

to MM-509-C, one HERMAN BERNSTEIN has been playing cards at

this club.

He stated that BERNSTEIN resides in the vicinity

of 21st and Park Avenue. Miami Beach

and was formerly a

partner of the deceased HARRY LEVINSON in a gambling operation

in New York City.

F/a

F/au

This Informant also advised that ELICAMEL, a.,

Eli/Campbell, a gambler who formerly served as

'a strong-arm

man and was on the payroll of the deceased ALBERT ANASTASIA,

is hanging around George's Newsstand and the card room of the

Carib Hotel, Miami Beach. He advised that CAMEL now makes

Miami Beach his home.

DICK FINCHER, owner of Fincher's Oldsmobile Company,

Miami, advised MIKE

MC LANEY, allegedly in control of the

gambling casino in

the Nacional Hotel, Havana, Cuba, is

presently staying at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.

Potential Criminal Informant

DONALD FLEMING, PCI, advised he received information

that ROCCO PAULASEDITA of New York City, suspected of transmitting

race wire information from race tracks, is presently in the

Miami area with the intention of operatingat the three horse

race tracks in this area.

A photograph of SEDITA was obtained

and furnished to HENRY BEARDSLEY, in charge of track security

at Tropical Park Race Track, Coral Gables, Florida, and

according to BEARDSLEY, SEDITA on December 15, 1958, was

located at the track and ejected. BEARDSLEY stated SEDITA

told him he was residing at 625 75th Street, Miami Beach.

Fla

- 2.

DocId: 32340000 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Releaser under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 62-1273

HOODLUMS IN MIAMI AREA

MM-656-C advised JOSEPH MASSEI, FBI Number 597894,

a former Detroit hoodlum who for years has made Miami Beach

his residence, each day spends most of his time hanging

around the Carib Hotel, Miami Beach. He also advised that

JOSEPH BOMMARITO, wa., Scarface, FBI Number 145941, another

Detroit hoodlum who winters at Miami Beach, comes to the

Carib Hotel approximately at 12:30 each day, has a few drinks

with MASSEI and that they then play hearts in the

card room

of the Carib Hotel.

WILLIAM ANTHONY CARNEY, PCI, advised that MURRAY

LAWRENCE SAPOSSNEK, Miami Beach, was found in Room 253 of

the Sun City Motel, Dade County, with a number of Sun City

Motel master keys in his possession.

He stated SAPOSSNEK

is a narcotic and lives at 8400 Harding Avenue, Miami Beach, F/2,

wherehis mother operates a gift shop.

He also stated that

SAPOSSNEK associates with JOHNNY fOLEDO, a former page boy

who worked in the Sunny Isles area and a BURyCIESCHE

allegedly from Austin, Texas.

Rex, F/2:

MM-647-PC stated EDDIE, CARFANO, brother of ANTHONY

CARFANO, FBI Number 652552, New

York hoodlum, told him that

ANTHONY CARFANO is presently in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

JOHN

Ny He also stated that BENNY

ROBILOTTO, a brother of

PASQUALEX ROBILOTTO, New York Police Department Number

B315641, a former body guard of VITO GENOVESE, FBI Number

861267 and ANTHONY STROLLO, wa., Tony Bender, FBI Number

4282858, who was killed in New York City this year, is

presently in New York for the purpose of handling some of

ROBILOTTO's business and making other arrangements necessary

due to the death of his brother. He said BENNY ROBILOTTO

recently built a fabulous home on Hollywood Boulevard near

Hollywood Beach, Florida. He also said BENNY ROBILOTTO is

in the shylock business in the Miami area and recently purchased

Dixie Dunbar's Restaurant in Hallandale, Florida, for

approximately $11,000.00. He further stated that ROBILOTTO

is a close personal friend of FRANKIE DIO.

+4.

DocId: 32340000 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the Fohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 62-1273

Fla

MM-509-C stated

, that he observed SALVATORE...

-GRAFFAGINO, wa., Blackie/Graffagino, FBI Number 31269, a

strong-arm man,

shylock and bookmaker from Brooklyn, New

York,

who served ten years in Sing Sing for a stick-üp.

He said on one occasion he saw GRAFFAGINO talking to CHARLES

KARPE, FBI Number 670712A, a local strong-arm man at Miami

Beach and on another occasions he saw GRAFFAGINO talking to

JOE MASSEI. He said he also observed GRAFFAGINO hanging

around the Tahiti Bar, Miami Beach.

DONALD FLEMING, PCI, advised that SAM SANDACK,

owner of Gems Limited, a

jewelry store in Miami with a

branch in the Breakers Hotel, Palm Beach, is suspegted

of being a jewelry fence. He also stated that MILT DRYFUSS

a traveling jewelry salesman in the South Florida area is

a close personal friend of SANDACK and is also suspected of

being a fence.

The "Miami Daily News" of December 18, 1958,

(reported that JULES JAY WEISS, FBI Number 9048815, owner

of the Florida Beverage Corporation, a wholesale liquor

company, 20 N. W. 15th Street, Miami, was beaten' with a

baseball bat by unknown assailants as he stepped from his

automobile at his home, 11 North Venetian Drive, Miami Beach, Fle,

early that morning.

WEISS is in the Mount Sinai Hospital,

Miami Beach, suffering from multiple bruises and possible

fracture of the left leg. The article pointed out that

F/2,

liquor stores known as the State and Tiny's Liquor Stores.

The article further recorded that for the past six months,

a liquor price war has been in existence in Dade County and

the WEISS liquor stores have been undercutting prices.

POLITICAL TIE-UPS WITH CRIME

MM-509-C advised that BERNIE FRANK, a Miami Beach

Councilman, had dinner at the Midtown

Social Club, Miami

Beach, with MICHAEL COPPOLA, his close personal irtend, the

- 5 =

di"

DocId: 32340000 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 62-1273

past week. He said he understood that COPPOLA put up a great

deal of money at the time FRANK ran for election and put out

the word among the "boys" to vote for FRANK.

Information relative to numerous questionable

concession contracts awarded by the Port Authority for the

new International Airport Terminal in Miami has been set :

forth in Miami letters to the Bureau of October 10, 17, 31;

November 21, 1958.

F/a

The "Miami Herald"' of December 10, 1958, reported

that Port Authority Director GEORGE MC SHERRY, admitted the

second Metropolitan concessions contract awarded hotelman

SAULA COHEN underethename Airways Parking Company for the

parking lot concession was irregular. The article related

guarantee of $2,900,000.00 was the highest of seven bids

on a ten year contract.

It was also alleged that all

bidders were not treated uniformly.

Fla

FLOYD MINER, PCI, advised that COHEN's firm, the

Airways Parking Company, employed FRED GLASS, a close

personal

friend and former employer of GEORGE MC SHERRY, to act as

consultant on this deal. GLASS now manages the Empire State

Building in New York, but previously was New York Aviation

/CARFINKEL, Owners of the Airways Parking Company. He also

said that

the owners had no previous experience in airport.

parking. MINER also stated that one of the seven rejected

bidders on the airport parking contract, RICHARD NORMAN,

filed an injunction suit alleging that the contract awarded

Airways Parking Company was illegal and asked the court to

throw out all seven bids for that concession.

-6 .

DocId: 32340000 Pag 6

---

