# docid-32324768

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90032-10007

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-75147-39-89

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE INTELLIGENCE REPORT

MILTON JAFFE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32324768

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JSP :flh

9

PG 94-172

that TODD was coming to Pittsburgh sometime during the week of

octoberito,

HERSHEL

and that his contact man in Pittsburgh is

SMITH, 1425 Gilmore Way.

CANAdA

On July 30, 1953

LAWRENCE and

FRANK ARDON, well-known: bookmakers of the city of Pittsburgh,

have been operating a "book" out of Canada, probably Montreal,

and have been booking sports from all sections of the country.

ccording to informant, Got, last name unknown, who was asso-

ciated with DAVEY LAWRENCE at Sleepout Louie's

the Canadian connections for them and could possibly be in

Canada

with DAVEY LAWRENCE and CARDON.

Informant said that it is

possible that GIL is running the whole setup and that DAVEY

LAWRENCE and FRANK CARDON, and perhaps others,

are merely working

out of his office. Informant advised that on

July 27

1953,

DAVEY LAWRENCE was in Pittsburgh for a short visit and that

whenever DAVEY goes to Canada he usually takes a girl friend

with him and leaves his wife in Pittsburgh.

PG-509-C on July 30, 1953, advised that the MANNARINOS of New

i he tate in ARe of Pittingh about the possi

ground in Las Vagas, Nevada,

bility of his joining them in building a gambling casino on this

property.

Informant

said that JAFFE has refused to become

associated with them

because of their reputation.

Informant also advised that MORRIS SCHREIBER, aka, BUTCH SCHREIBER,

is handling illegal liquor and that he makes

frequent trips to

Ohio and Washington, Dole, where he purchases expensive liquor

"for prominent people in the city of Pittsburgh who are his"

clients.

C.

POLITICAL TIE-UPS WITH ORGANIZED CRIME

The May 4, 1953; issue of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph" carried

an article reflecting that MARVIN WALKOW.

435 of 2370 Pittock

Mrs. LUCILLE FRISSI, 36, of 1702

the charge that they were booking numbers.

The raid, which took

place at 4929 Centre Avenue, was led by Assistant Superintendent

of BoliCe ADAMAGEISIER.

Regarding this incident, informant stated that the entire matter

DocId: 32324768 Page 2

---

