# docid-32289376

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10201-10152

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2312

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/21/1970

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289376

218

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144

usd

2107

DATE :

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY

MAX APAR EDI CON 101-11.6

*UNITED STATES C

IRNMENT

Memorandum

CONFOENTIAL

TO

•SIDE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CILASSEFICAT

TON

8/21/70.

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171 LASSITY DELS T™БАТЕ

BY DOZ ARMINE

UV CO. MITRAE (DRC)

DATE:

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (9213) (P)

83YRT/AG

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

M

GIANCANA

DECZASSIFIED BY STaL&- 52Ka/nde

M-FCTM I1,

VIEW

- 09.81

12 19/91

Mutat

ON

Remy let 6/23/70/EN

SFR

surp

we classing or

120.

On 7/6/70 MEX 34 furnished the results

of inquiry

413/84

concerning various iudlviduals in Cuernavaca and taxco, verteen

related to telephone numbers called from subject's telephone

2-16-78 - G. W. B. MANNING: Mr. MANNING lives in

a large house known as Quinta Camijo located at

Chihuahua and Eugenia in Cuernavaca. He is a man

of about 70 years of age and until recently was

president of the Mexican Goodrich Tire Company.

He is now retired and living in Cuernavaca.

He

has had this house some 20 years.

His wife died

in February.

He has two grown children who are

prominent in Mexico City and visit him frequently

with the grandchildren.

He supposedly is selling

Date of Der

Exempt from

Classified

FIED 9

APPROPRIA

his house to a Spaniard named BARROSO and moving

to an apartment in Mexico City:

MANNING reportedly

is originally from chicago.(@U..

2-39-65 - RUTH DAVIS (LYNN): She is an American

issification

woman who has lived in Cuernavaca for years and

- 028

GENCIES

works in real estate. She has various houses in-

cluding the one at Leyva 41, which she often rents

to Americans. (eD IL

2-29-02 - ELDRED TAMER.

This is a house on Privada

Tepehuaje 11 in the Palmira Section of Cuernavaca.

The servant at that address would only advise tht

the house was presently occupied by Mrs. LISA ANDERSON,

who at that time was in the United"States.

occupants were two women named TAMER

these women have died

- Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Desk)

(2 - Chicago, 92-349)

Notey:

B9 SEP 2 9970 0 33

5010-108-02

DocId: 32289376

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11-USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

COLDEN.

CONEROENTIAL

2-59-75 - JOSEFINA HERRERA, Independencia 13.

This address is a small variety store.

JOSEFINA

HERRERA is a servant girl and this store is the

address of her parents.

She works for various

Americans, usually under the direction of Mrs.

CANTA MAYA, Galeana 603, telephone 2-36-00.

JOSEFINA

was friendly with some Americans named Prayter

who own' a ranch near San Antonio, and another Amer-

ican couple named

"BRAYT DOLSON" (probably BRAY

DAWSON) of Dallas, Texas.

OS MEX 287 ad)

advised 7/9/70 that the subject was

still in

residence in his apartment at Mexico City.

He noted

that

subject has now grown a full beard and looks to be very

healthy.

He has not resumed golf but has played cards regu-

larly with the same group of friends.

Subject attended

. the

wedding reception of JACK JACKTER 6/21/70 in Cuernavaca

who came

7/6/70.

He was dating a mature married woman from Los Angeles

down to see him but reportedly left sometime after

Subsequently, source advised 8/5/70 that he had

heard that subject was

out of Mexico City and possibly out

of Mexico during much of July, 1970, and returned about

7/28 or 29/70.

Inis apparently was another of his mysterious

lisappearances wherein he informs no one of his travel plans (@*

JOAN BANNISTER, Secretary, Bureau of Narcotics and

Dangerous Drugs, American Embassy, Mexico City, advised 8/20/70

that her mother

had confirmed that subject continues to use

the house at Nubes No. 2 in Cuernavaca as his residence and

has placed the house in Colonia Las Quintas on tho narket, a lo

LEADS :

EMEXICO CITY

FAT MEXICO, D. F.AX U

Will continue

to follow and report on subject's

activities in Mexico (Mu

901-19125

DocId: 32289376 Page 3

---

