# docid-32329939

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90088-10119

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-6638-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LV

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/27/1964

PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

HORSESHOE CLUB LAS VEGAS NEVADA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v01

Doc1A: 32329939

17

Page 1•

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy ASSasSinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATES: 11-11-2017

LV 92-736

THE LAS VEGAS DIVISION

AT LAS VEGAS, NEVADA

Will follow and report information concerning the

operation of the Horseshoe Club, changes in ownership, and

activities of kew personnel at this Club.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

on 3/5/64, Mr. CHARLES VALE, INS, Las Vegas, Nevada,

advised SA THOMAS H. ALT of the following information, which he

said came from an unidentified source who he felt was reliable:

VALE said the source reported that the money for the

sale of the Horseshoe Hotel and Casino had already changed hands,

although the paper work concerning this sale had not been completed.

He said that recently EDWARD LEVINSON had gone to the Beverly

Wilshire Hotel in Los Angeles to meet with

"DOC" STACHER, and to

deliver the money for the sale of the Horseshoe. The source told

VALE that some of this money went on into Mexico, although the

source had no further information concerning this transfer of

funds to Mexico.

INFORMANTS:

IV T-1 is LV 108-PC.

IV T-2 is Sergeant BEN COMPTON, Las Vegas PD, Las Vegas,

Nevada.

LV T-3 is LV 130-PC.

LV T-4 is LESTER BENJAMIN BINION, request identity be

concealed, Las Vegas gambler and presently

connected with the

Horseshoe Club through his son, JACK BINION, an owner at the

Horseshoe Club, Las Vegas, Nevada.

LV T-5 is LV 141-PC.

IV T-6 is LV 16-C.

REMEWED BY FELIA JANA FONCE

ON 5/21/99 doL

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE I PART

TOTAL DENML

-

COVER

PAGE

20088.19112

DocId: 32329939 Page 2

---

