# docid-32324254

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90025-10097

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 162-607-18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/22/1968

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

ISADORE MAX MILLER

ISADORE MILLER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

• CURRENT STATUS : -

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/29/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32324254

14

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

I-USA, Fort Worth

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

9/27/68

162-96

ISADORE MAX MILLER

Office:

Dallas, Texas

Bureau File #: 162-607

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERSTATE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

Identities of number of subscribers to telephone

numbers called as charged to telephones available to

subject determined and on the basis of

preliminary checks

by local authorities.

Subject continues to associate

with two well known

Dallas bookies, JOHN ELI STONE and

WILLIAM PETREE, and subject's automobile has been observed

on number of occasions parked at his bookmaking location

in Dallas.

Investigation continuing.

DETAILS: AT GALVESTON, TEXAS

Under date of July 17, 1968, the Houston Office

furnished the folowing information:

The following investigation was conducted by

SA CARLOS L. KIRBY, JR:

The current Galveston, Texas, telephone directory

reflects Telephone Number SO 3-2037 is listed to JOE

LERNER, 4316 Caduces Street, Galveston, Texas.

The 1966

Galveston telephone directory also reflects this number

was listed to LERNER:

On July 15, 1968, Captain ROY KELLER, Galveston

Police Department, advised

he has known JOE LERNER for

several years stating LERNER resides in Galveston and

operates the Starr Furniture Company at Texas Clty, Texas.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBl and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

#U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:

1987-0-273-878

DocId:32324254 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 T99 U5t 2107 Hotel.

• DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 162-96

gamble and this suggests the possibility that LERNER

could be placing bets with MILLER.

Interview LERNER

in this regard and if be admits placing bets with MILLER

obtain full details including volume of such activity,

and nethod of payment for wagers won and lost.

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS 1. Will continue to maintain

contact with DL. 275-C-TE and DL 271-C.

2. Will maintain contad with DL 394-PC who has

promised to furnish the line obtained from MILLER.

3. Will continue to spot check subject's book-

making location.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Identity of Informant

DL T-] Is DL 271-C contacted by reporting Agent.

— B

COVER

PAGE

DooId: 32324254

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-263 (Rev.3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ISADORE MAX

MILLER, aka

DATE

7/22/68

REPORT MADE BY...

HAROLD J. EDGERTON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/22 -

7/12/68

IGA

TYPED BY+

jsd

Report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 5/31/68 at Dallas.

-P-

REFERENCE:

LEADS

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS.

1.. Will continue to spot check

subject's bookmaking location.

2. Will review results of investigation being conducted

to identify subscribers to persons called from subject's phones

to determine whether any are known gamblers or bettors, and

will report results of such investigation.

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None

FINES

SAVINGS

ACQUIT-

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES XINO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS EYES IXINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

(3 - Bureau (162-607)

SPECIAL AGENT

/ IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

162-607-

18

REC 4

1 - USA, Ft. Worth

EX 109

2 - Dallas (162-96)

did

2 JUL 25 1968

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

ST/

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

57 JUL 31 1968

# U.S

RINTING OFFICE : 19670

DocId: 32324254 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act ôf 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 162-96

3. Will maintain contact with DL 275-C-TE.

ADMINISTRATIVE

IDENTITY OF INFORMANT

DI I-I is DI 275-C-TE, contacted by reporting Agent.

_ B*

COVER_PAGE

DoCId: 32324254

Page 5

---

