# docid-32291021

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10297

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-315

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/01/1962

CM, ASSOC, BKG, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/21/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

UNH 45855 DocId:32291021 Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

WFO 92-113

that time, DONOHUE attempted to learn the scope of the FBI

investigation concerning him. He asserted that individuals

contacted by the FBI concerning him had advised him of these

contacts.

When asked to be more specific by ASAC HOWELL,

DONOHUE said that Mr. L

of Milwaukee, Wisconsin,

a diamond importer had informed him that he had been

interviewed by Milwaukee Agents concerning DONOHUE's

activities. DONOHUE asserted that L

who had given him

business in the past, seemed reluctant to discuss business

opportunities with him in view of the FBI investigation.

It is noted that from 11/19/57, to 5/30/59,

DONOHUE was a Registered Agent for

the Dominican Republic.

The investigation of DONOHUE indicates that he

is acquainted with United States Senator, DENNIS CHAVEZ of

New Mexico and CHARLES DAVIS, Administrative Assistant to

Senator CHAVEZ.

The Bureau advised on 6/5/61, concerning DONOHUE

that in view of CHARLES DAVIS' past record an interview of

him in the investigation of DONOHUE did not appear advisable

or would it likely be productive.

The records of the Willard Hotel as reviewed on

1/24 and 27/61, reflected the following information concerning

CARLOS MARCELLO:

MARCELLO checked into the Willard Hotel at 8:45 p.m.

1/22/61, and was assigned Suite 701-02-041. Also checking

into the Willard with MARCELLO was one J. J. ANATO. MARCELLO

and AMATO checked out of the Willard at 4:00 p.m., 1/24/61.

The foregoing information concerning the Willard

Hotel was furnished on a strictly confidential basis by

Mr. ROLAND BEAULIEU, Executive Assistant Manager.

WFO notes that the Willard Hotel meets the

description of a large well known hotel in the downtown area

with a flight of outside stairs leading

to the lobby. This

would tend to collaborate PCI

information concerning

MARCELLO's stay in Washington, D. C.

-3-

NW 45855 DocId: 32291021 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

