# docid-32333105

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90104-10403

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-379

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/06/1962

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32333105

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Notêj.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-263 (F

59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

DATE

INVESTIGA

8/6/62

IVE PERIOD

6/12 - 7/27/62

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT A. VOGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

TYPED BY

RIG

REFERENCE

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 6/14/62.

P

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2) :

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original

and one copy of letterhead

memorandum

dated 8/6/62, relating to "SEBASTIAN

JOHN LA ROCCA, aka, ANTI-RACKETEERING."

LEAD

PITTSBURGH

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

WIll follow and report the activities of SEBASTIAN JOHN.

LA ROCCA and his associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

PICIAL ACTA

IN CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

Bureau (92-2940)

92. 2940-379

REC- 45

1- USA, Pittsburgh

* AUG 9

1964

-108

Dis

dination Reco

dof Attacked Repor

Notatior

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

51 AUG 161962

DocId: 32333105

Page 2

TAY. SECT.,

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE : 11-14-2017

FBT

5. 60*

ụn 13

1 12 00302

Cwe

(O22

Mannarino

616-28

-BY

4 af

she sie and

SPECIAL

DocId: 32333105

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-2017

PG 92-226

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG I-1 1s PG 585-C, who was contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on 7/16/62.

PG I-2 1s PG 640-CTE, who was

contacted by SA JAMES

B. FANNING On 5/18/62 and 6/20/62.

PG T-3. 1s PG 657-CTE, who was contacted by SA JAMES

B. FANNING on 4/25/62, 5/4,17 and 22/62 and 6/14/62.

PG T-4 1s PG 622-C*, who 1s contacted by SA ROBERT A.

VOEGE on a daily basis.

PG T-5 18 PG 545-C, who was contacted by SA THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III, during 1957.

CovER PAGE

DocId: 32333105

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-226

He stated that this construction job was operated out of a

small business establishment located at 5830 Forward Street,

in the squirrel Hill Section of Pittsburgh. He said that

FIOR GENOVESE, youngest

brother of Apalachin attendee

MIKE GENOVESE ,

has again

assumed operation of the Red

Eagle Club and Its facilities.

This informant is of the

opinion that ROCCO 1s being prepared for a more important job

in the organization, but could not elaborate on this conjecture.

C. ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

Information of a Criminal Nature Obtained Through

Informant Coverage.

PG T-3 has advised that the top racket men in the Pittsburgh,

their meetings or conferences, but that a number of social

engagements, which are always attended by the too racket

igures in the area, are held at the Phoenix Motel ir

Monroeville, Pa. He stated that these meetings are always

attended by GABRIEL and SAMUEL MANNARINO, SEBASTIAN JOHN

LA ROCCA, ARTHUR D. NELSON and their respective lieutenants.

He stated that the lesser echelon figures usually attend

at the Phoenix Lounge on

Thursday nights and

that this is open to the public, with

certain limitations.

The aforementioned informant advised that during a

conversation with MIKE GENOVESE he was advised that JOSEPH

PECORA managed the Jockey Club at Chester, W. Va., during

the absence of CHARLES TEEMER. He was also advised that

PECORA 1s definitely the MANNARINO organization's "boy,"

and is considered the lieutenant of GABRIEL MANNARINO.

The informant said that one MICHAEL CAPIZZI, 1s also employed

at the Jockey Club and is known to associates as "WANGO.

According to the informant,

this individual is an understudy

for PECORA and is considered his strong-arm man.

When

questioned concerning the location of horserooms in the

Pittsburgh area, this informant advised that to the best

of his knowledge, the only location at which one can place

a horse bet is the Red Eagle Lounge at 412 Larimer Avenue.

He did not think that there were any other horserooms in

operation in the Pittsburgh area.

4

DocId: 32333105 Page 5

---

