# docid-32289505

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10281

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-560

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

MARSHALL, JACK LOUIS

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/06/1962

17

LST, ASSOC, RES, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

' NW 45966 DocId: 32289505

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

F'D-263 4Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka.

DATE

6/6/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/4/62 - 6/1/62

REPORT MADE BY

JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES: Report of SA WILLIAM A. HAMILTON, dated

5/7/62, Miami.

Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, dated

4/24/62 at Tampa.

-P-.

ENCLOSURES: Enclosed for the Bureau is (1) the original

and one copy of a letterhead memorandum

setting fortn the characterization of

the informants used in instant report.

-LEADS -

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

(1) Will attempt to interview MOSES SALTI

regarding his knowledge of subject's interest in the

TYPED BY

jkj

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. ..

HOW FWD.

BY.

3 - Bureau (92-2781) (riaol

I - USA, Miami

2 - Tampa (92-1)

2 - Miami (92-88) 2C

AiS

DISSIMIMATION RECONS OR ATTACHED REPORTI: 11

14.

18

SNOTATIONES

EBI

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

16-76324-1

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

90) 2784-560

P6915

HW 45966 DocId: 32289505 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

gambling establishment located in the Metropolitan

Bank Building.

(2) Will be alert for any information which

would connect the subject in any way with ALVARO

GONZALEZ,

President of Local 133, Waiters, Waitresses,

and Bartenders

• Union.

(3) Will continue to closely follow the activities

of the

subject.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

In order to avoid duplication of the reporting

of information in reports submitted by Miami and Tampa

in instant case, Miami hereafter will forward all FD 302's

and inserts to Tampa and Miami will not submit reports

UACB.

In regard to leads set out for Miami in Tampa

report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, dated 4/24/62 concerning

(FNU)

ROTHSCHILD, Miami files contain numerous references

under the name ROTHSCHILD, but none of them with the

information available. could be connected in any way

to the subject.

+

- INFORMANTS -

OTHER

4

MM T-1 is MM 725-C.

MM T-2 is

JPCI, contacted by SA C. B.

SCHILDECKER, JR..

MM T-3 is SA JACK LOUIS MARSHALL.

MM T-4 is

PCI, contacted by SA C. GRAHAM HURST.

MM T-5 is MM 609-C.

B. *

- COVER PAGE -

501-10981

HW 45966 DocId: 32289505 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• FD-204 (ReT

TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - USA, Miami

Report of:

Date:

JACK LOUIS MARSHALL

6/6/62

Field Office File No.: 92-88

Title:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

Office:

Miami, Florida

Bureau File No.: 92-2781

Character: ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

CHARLES M. CUCCIA advised he owns house located at

523 Northeast Tlst Street which he rents to subject.

Informant advised on 4/7/61 that ALVARO GONZALEZ,

President of Local 133, Waiters, Waitresses, and

Bartenders Union, is close to JOE FISCHETTI, MAX

EDER and PAT ERRA...

Informant advised on 5/10/62

that MOSES SALTI; a Cuban who was acquainted with

subject in Cuba, is now 'in Miami and has been working

for subject in some sort of gambling establishment in

the Metropolitan Bank Building

Name of PETER GIAMPAPA,

also known as

PETER PALERMO, FBI# 1563000, appeared

on repair 'bill for subject's 'car.' JUDITH

SALVAT,

149 West 8th Street, Hialeah, Fla., advised she knew

subject in Cuba and considered him a nice person:

Subject frequently parks his car at Miami, International

Airport for periods of three to four days. SUBJECT

SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE TO HIS

PAST ASSOCIATION IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

- P

DETAILS:

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.. It is the property of the FBI and is-loaned to your agency; it anc

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45966 DocId:32289505 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

1 .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Date -

June 1, 1962

CHARLES M.

CUCCIA, owner and operator of the Miami

Clutch Company, 111 N. W. 20th Street, advised he lives at

531 N. E. 71st Street and also owns the house next door, 523

N, E. 7lst Street, which he rents.

At the present time,

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE and his wife rent the house at 523 N. E. 71st

Street.

Mr. CUCCIA advised TRAFFICANTE has rented this house:

for approximately one year, paying $100.00 per month, which he

always pays in cash.

Mr. CUCCIA advised he seldom sees TRAFFICANTE, but

has spoken to him occasionally.

He said he did not know

TRAFFICANTE before he rented his house, but did remember

reading an article in a Miami newspaper which stated that

TRAFFICANTE had been involved in gambling activities in Cuba

before the Castro Government assumed control. Mr. CUCCIA

said TRAFFICANTE had volunteered the information that the

FBI was investigating him and told him that if the FBI asked

The tort hat

him any questions, to tell anything they wished to know.

Mr. CUCCIA stated that TRAFFICANTE's wife is named

JO and that his wife is on friendly terms with her.

He stated

that she makes frequent trips and his wife told him she goes

to Tampa, Florida.

Mr. CUCCIA said Mrs. TRAFFICANTE stays in

Tampa about half the

• He said TRAFFICANTE also is fre-

quently away from 523 N. E. Tist Street, usually for three

to four days, and he assumed he also goes to Tampa, but he

said he could not be

certain of this:

Mr. CUCCIA said he has never seen TRAFFICANTE with

another woman, and did not remember seeing any visitors at

523 N. E. 71st Street.

Mr. CUCCIA further advised he knew nothing concerning

the activities or associates of TRAFFICANTE.

2

On

n 5/24/62

at

Miami, Florida

Miant 92-88

by -

SA JACK LOUIS MARSHALI: rma

_Date dictated _

5/28/62

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents'aré not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45966 DocId:32289505 Page 5

---

