# docid-32346867

## Page 1

Date: 03/27/02

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10063-10315

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK

80T01357A

--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FBI

FROM

TO :

TITLE : NATIONAL MOBILIZATION COMMITTEE TO END THE WAR IN

VIETNAM

DATE: 10/24/67

PAGES : 5

SUBJECTS : ANTI-WAR GROUP

DEMONSTRATION

VIETNAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK10: F6 1993.07.14.11:08:48:650530: PER ARRB 10/97, NOT

ASSASSINATION

RELATED - DIF

... -

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DocId: 32346867

Page

1

---

## Page 2

47y85

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Rejer 80

File No.

" д

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Menphis, Tentessee

• October 24, 1967

DEC 1 1964

DOC.MiTTO.SER

RO: NATIONAL NOBILIZATION CONVITTEE

TO END THE WAR IN VIETNAM

INFORNATION CONCERNING

(INTERVAL SECURITY)

Reference is mide to the memorandun prepared at

Menghis, Temiessee, dated October 20, 1967, In this matter.

Beginning at approximtely noos on Saturday,

october 21,

1967, & group totaling 12 individuals demonstrated

Federal Office Building, 167 North lain

Street, Memphis, Tennessee.

This demonstration was observed by a representative

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as representa

tives of the enphis, Temessee, Police Department.

The deconstration lasted approxintely 64 minutes

mith the demonatrators holding crudaly made signs, uppust

printed, with such notations as "End the Draft!;

Our Boys In Vietnam, Bring Thea Hone • Allve!"; "Get

Out of Vietnan";

"I Oppose the War, the Draft"; and "e

Protest the

Indecent and Inhunsn

Acts of the Viet-Nan

War " Leave!" The group consisted oi threa white femles,

namely Frances Kathryn Hetzer, Wry Helen Ivans, and Susan

Mcdonald, all students at Memphis State Univarsity (MSU);

one Negro

male, Coby Vernon Suith, currently a student at

Southwestern College; and eight white males, including Howard

Janey Callton, fat, denpala stace University student, anc

Douglas Turner

howard, dro, ast inglish Instructor.

identities of the others are not Enorn.

In general the

group consisted of longchuired boys, some with beards.

10363

НН 50529 DocId:32346867 Page 2

---

## Page 3

B0RRА

NATIONAL MOBILIZATION COMMITTER

TO END INS WAB IN VIRINA

did not distribute any literature, did not move off the

sidewalk in Iront or the federal office Building, and were

observed by very lew spectators due to the fact that in the

Imediate vicinity of the Federal Office Building is located

the State Office Building, Mouphis City Hall, and Ellis

Auditorium, all of shich vere unoccupied, since this was a

-

saturday.

COBY VERNON SUrTE

On July 3, 1967, & first source advised that

Coby Vernon Smith, male Negro, then & student at

Southwestern College, Memphis,

Tennessee, was one of

the early organizers

of & Southern Student Organizing

Cormittee (SSOC) chapter at Meuphis, Tennessee,

the fall of 1966; that consistently since that

Smith has been a

vociferous agitator, preaching racial

mlitancy and

"lack pover," fancying hinself as &

follower of

the renowned hatemonger Stokely Carmichael,

Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) leader.

on cune 1yol, & second

source advised that

coby smith attended the sociarist workers Party SwP

National Connittee Plenum held

at 783 Broadway,

Nev

Nor's City, June %, 3 and 4, 1967.

la characterization of the Ssoc is set forth in

the

Appendix section of this communication.

The siP has been desigrated by the Attorney General

of the United states pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

HH 50529

DocId: 32346867

Page

---

## Page 4

9093:

1

APPENDIX

SOUTHERN STUDENT ORGANIZING COMMITTEE (SSOC)

On November 1, 1966, a first source advised that

the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC) with

headquarters at 1703 Portland Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee,

was formed on the weekend of April 3-5, 1964, to stimulate

activity of Southern student groups in areas of civil rights,

peace, academic freedon, civil liberties, capital punishment

and unemployment.

Originally, it was to

• be a white counterpart

of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). It

has agreed to work with similar interested groups such as SNCC

and Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and Southern Con-

ference Educational Fund, Inc. (SCEF). SSOC is a fraternal

affiliate of SDS.

Beginning in the fall of 1966, SSOC became a

membership organization and embarked on a campaign to form

local chapters on various college campuses throughout the

South.

ssoc publishes, October through may each year, a

publication,

"New South Student," which according to the

above source has increasingly espoused and defended the pro-

Communist and anti-United States position on domestic and

foreign policy.

On September 27, 1966, a second source

advised that

Donald Boner of Nashville,

Tennessee, while in attendance at a

Communist Party, USA (CPUSA) Youth Conference, Camp Webatuck,

New York, September 12, 13 and 14, 1966, gave

a report regarding

Nashville, saying that

CP personnel were concentrating on

organizing rent strikes, working with SSOC and SCEF and

establishing a Socialist study Group for students.

He predicted

future rioting, which, he said, the CP must take advantage of,

He emphasized that more CP youth must

be sent south.

On August 12, 1966, a third source advisedtthat

Donald Leslle Boner, white male, age 24, oi 3105 Louise Drive,

Nashville, Tennessee, had been in the CP about four months.

APPENDIX

5

HH 50529

DocId:32346867

Page 4

---

## Page 5

2

APPENDIX

пї..

SOUTHERY STIDENT ORGANIZING COMMITTEE ISSOC)

On September 27, 1966, and ajain on June 2, 1967,

the second source advised that during tie Summer of 1966 the

CPUSA concentrated its youth cadre in organizing projects

in several cities in an effort to recruis

for and strengthen

local CP youth organizations, Nashville, Tennessee, was

included in this project. The youth placed in charge of the

Nashville project was Donald Leslie Boner, with funds to be

made avalable for three to five full-time organizers ir

Nashville.

Jacqueline' Saindon, also know as Jackie, of the

York, New York, a Queens College student,

Nashville in the Summer of 1966 for this purpose.

came to

CPUSA Youth Conference held at Camp Webatuck, New York,

° 1966,

At the

September 12, 13 and 14, 1966, Boner reported that effective

liaison had

been made with ssoc; that contact had also been

made with black militants on Nashville Negro college campuses;

and that & beginning had been made toward organizing in the

Nashville Negro community.

in the near future

He said he thought a riot was possible.

in the Negro community and the CP must take

advantage of same. He emphasized that some main efforts were to

work with SSOC and SCEF.

Following the conference, attendees

Brian Heggen and Patricia Louise Rabbitt, also known as Patti

Rabbitt,

efforts

traveled to Nashville to join Boner's organizing

there.

On February 28, 1967,a fourth source advised that

Patti Rabbitt of Seattle,

Washington, a member of the Northwest

Cr District, had gone to Nashville, Tennessee, to organize in

connection with a CP assignment.

On June 8, 1967, source five advised that Patti

Rabbitt, Brian Heggen, Donald Lestle Boner and wife Carol Stevens

toner are sit active members of SSOC in Nashville and that Heggen

is now editor of the official SSOC publication, "New South

Student."

on July 1, 1967, source six advised that Donald Boner

and wife Carol Boner

attended a CPUSA Youth Conference at Camp

Abelard, New Jork, July 1 through 4, 1967.

APPENDIX

2262

6

100-300-25

HH 50529 DocId:32346867 Page 5

---

## Page 6

APPEND EX

MALRIFEKERF

13203

SOUTHERN STUDENT ORGANIZING CONMITTEE (SSOC)

The masthead of the Jume, 1967, issue of

"Southern Patriot," official publication

of SCEF, lists

Carol Stevens Boner and Anne Braden

as Editors and

lists Cari Braden as Executive Director.

The "Nashville Banner, " Nashville, Tennessee,

newspaper Issue of May 5, 1967, reported that SSOC was

preparing for the May 17, 1967, appearance of Mike Zagarell,

National Youth Director, CPUSA,

st Vanderbilt University;

tress agent for ssoc, on day 1i, 1967,

brought to the

that Bill Loss anner" office nublieity material nhich the

CP had sent to ssoc.

IV, No. 4, of

October through

American Labor," by Donald Boner, & review of a book

entitled,

CIA and American Labor,

authored by George Morris,

Labor Editor of

"The Horker,

"east coast communist newspaper.

Boner is described therein as an active member of the

Nasnville ssoc chapter.

APPENDIX

50529

DooId: 32346867

Page

---

