# docid-32319374

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10369-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-X8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN

TO: DELOACH

TITLE:

DATE: 08/17/1966

• PAGES: 313

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, LEE HARVEY OSWALD

VOLUME XI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT, PHOTO

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FOLDER, MEMO, LET, LHM, A/T, TTY, NEWS RELEASE, BRIEF, NOTE, SUMMARY,

DIAGRAM, PHOTOS, S/S, LIST, GUIDELINES, INSERT, DEPOSITION, R/S, LIST,

TESTIMONY, NEWS ARTICLE, ENV

v9.1

HW 46064

DocId: 32319374

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Mr.

C. Sullivan

November 9, 1960

F. 6. Baungardner

} = Mr: BeLant

• Mr. Deloach

Mr. Sullivan

A- Mr. Branigen

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

• Mr. Baungarduer

KLAN INVESTIGATIONS

X. • Mr. Hosack

RACIAL, MATTERS (KLAN)

A Bureau source who is very close to Robert Shelton, Imperial

Wizard, United Klans of Anaica, Isc.,

Knights of the lu Klux Klas, has

advised that Lester Chalmers, Shelton's attorney, not with Congressman

Edwin E. Willis, Chairnan of

the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

during the weekend of November 6, 1965, posaibly in New Orleans.

During

this neoting Chalmers explained to Willis the story concerning bee Oswald®s

Involvenant in some bombings in Alabama.

You will recall that this source previously advised that shortly

before the assassination of former President John F. Kennedy, Shelton

was allegedly contacted by James Venable, lender of the National Knighta

of the Ku Klux Klan.

Venable indicated that Oswald bad been active in

come bombings in Alabama and offered the services of Oswald to Shelton,

which dier shelton declined.

Shelton, according to the source, also

related that Oswald was in Atlanta, Georgia, when

I former President Kennedy

was scheduled to spoak at Georgia Tech. The speech was cancellod, but

according to shelton, Oswald engaged in some picketing activity and was

photographed. The Atlanta Office has chocked with one of our informants,

who was allegedly in on the neeting between shelton and Venable, and the

informant advised that no such meeting took place.

The Atlanta Office has

3180 previously checked on allegations regarding Oswald's presence in Atlant&

prior to the assassination of President Konnedy and has determined that

all such allegations were not factual.

According to our source, Chalmers indicated that Willia was

mazed with the above story as told to him by Chalmers but made no

commitment other than to say that he (Willis) would contact Chalners

when he returned to Washington, D. C.

Source also advised that Willis had told Chalmers that Sheriti

Newt Love was engaged in a run off campaign for re-election and had to

be protected if he was going to win.

We previously received information

that Willis is trying to arrange for Chalmers to represent Sheriff Love

during Lowe's appearance before the Committee. Sherift Lowe had been

a member of the Jonesboro, Louisiana, Unit of

the United Klans of America

and is. fron the Congressional District of Otto Passman, Democrat of

Louistana.

TPR: jmv (7)

CONTINUED - OVER

HW 46064 DocId: 32319374

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum Baungardner to Sullivan

RE:

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

KLAN INVESTIGATIONS

157-5

The source further advised that Robert Scoggins, Grand Dragon

for the state of south carolina, had been notified by the

Veterans

Administration that his disability pension has been recuced.

Shelton

feels that this was a retalatory measure taken by the Connittee and the

Veterans Administration against Scoggins. Therefore, the klan 15

lodging & protest with the American Legion and the Disabled American

Shelton stated that when Raymond Anderson, the Grand Dragon

Administration to inquire if Anderson's disability pension will also be

reduced.

2 •

It is noted that Anderson is a Bureau informant, who while

serving in the Armed forces during the Koroan Conflict lost his left

al This loss entitled him to a disability pension.

Observations:

Chairman Willis is being contaeted by Assistant Director

DeLoach concerning the information furnished to him by Chalmers regarding

Oswald and to advise Willis that the information is not factual.

It

appears that Shelton is circulating the story in order to possibly

discredit Venable, who; he feels has furnished information to the

Conmittee concerning Shelton and Shelton's Elan organization.

Although

Venable did testify in executive session, a review of the testimony

Indicates that he furnished little or no information of value, and

Shelton's assumption is erroncous.

Tho information regarding

Shelton's proposed visit to the

Veterans Administration is known only to a linited number of individuals

Administration may reveal that thay had advance knowledge of this visit.

It is not belleved that any real harm will be caused by this action on

the part of Shelton and, therefore, it is felt that the Veterans

Administration should not be advised.

We have previously advised the White House and the Attorney

General rogarding Willis' actions with regard to sheriff Lowe.

ACTION:

For infornation.

• 2 .

HW

46064 DocId: 32319374

Page 3

---

## Page 4

totalans

Ax. W. C. Sullivan

Mr. F. 3. Baungardner

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES

KLAN INVESTIGATIONS

RACIAL MATTERS (KLAN)

November S, 1965

1

• - Ir. Belmont

Mr.

DeLoach

1572.

Sullivan

• bix .

Branigan

Mx .

Baumgardner

1

- ih'. Rosack

A source of the Bureau who is serving as Public

Rolations Director for Robert M. Shelton, Impertal Wizard,

United Klans of Anertea, Inc., Knights of the Ku Klux Klan,

has furnished information obtained by hin during his contacts

with Shelton.

According to shelton, about two weeks before the

assassination of former President John F. Kennedy, he was

in contact with James Venable, a lender of another Rlan

organization.

Venable told Shelton that he was in contact

with loe Oswald and that Oswald had been active in sone

bombings in Alabama•

Venable offered the services of Oswald

to Shelton and stated he could be used by both groups.

Shelton stated he declined Venable's offer and that this

declination was made in the presence of Calvin Craig (Grand

Dragon of Shelton's organization) and Bob Thompson (Vice

President of Shelton's organization and a racial infornant).

Shelton also stated that according to Venable, Oswald was in

Atlanta, Georgia, at a time when former President John 7.

Kennedy

was scheduled to speak before & Georgia Tech group.

This speaking engagenent was canceled and he did not appear

in Atlanta; however, there was sone picketing activity in

Hurt (phonetic) Paris, Atlanta, and the source got the impression

the Atlanta newspapers at this time contained information or

a photograph that will prove Oswald was in Atlenta at that time.

Shelton further clains that he saw a registration card for

Oswald while he was staying in one of the Marziott Motels in

Atlanta,

shelton told his Attorney, lester Chalmers, to get in

touch with Congressman Edwin D. Will1s, Chairman of the above-

captionad Committee.

According to our source, Chalmers con-

theted congressman willis and arranged to meet him in New Orleans

on the evening of 11-5-65. Chalmers intends to present

Shelton's story to l11l1s

but not to make any recommendations

to Willis as to what he should do.

I1 W1llis wants to talk

personally with shelton, he wilt make him available at the

time and place set by Willis.

3GD: che

(7)

CONTINUED - OVER

HW

46064 DocId: 32319374 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Hemorandun to Mr. W.

C.

Sullivan

RE:

HOUSE COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACIIVITIES

KLAN INVESTIGATIONS

SAC Ponder of the Atlanta Office advised on 11-5-65

that

our informant, stated that no meeting

such

shelton described ever tool place.

SAC Donder further

advised that at the time of President Kennedy's death, there

wore nunerous allegations that Oswald had been in Atlanta

and these allegations were given considerable newspaper

publicity. The allegations were thoroughly and completely

investigated by the Bureau and found to be false.

It 18

belteved Shelton was aware of the newspaper publicity con-

cerning Oswald being in Atlanta; therefore, he concocted

It is to be noted that Shelton according

to a Washington

the above story field source believes Venable is furnishing

inforuation to captioned Committee concerning his (Shelton's)

organization.

RECOMMENDATION:

In view of the above, no action should be taken in

this matter.

OTHER 4

2

NW 46064 DocId: 32319374 Page 5

---

## Page 6

7 older

CONFIDENTIAL

Director, PBI (105-82555)

8/20/65

Legat, Mexico (105-3702) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

3177196

CLASSROO ROS SACRO

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (

Rebulet dated 4/26/65 ( 5668 SiD/GeL -To/95-5+k)

At Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico

On 5/31/65, MEX-27, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, advised that the identification

records maintained at the Monterzey Police Department and at

the Nuevo Leon State Police Department, contained no zeferences

whatsoever to the name of MIGUEL PONSECA RIVAS.

on 6/11/65, MEX-33, who has furnished zeliable

information in the past, advised that he made discreet

neighborhood inquiries concerning MIGUEL PONSECA RIVAS, and

he ascertained that PONSECA is a young man, reportedly employed

as a waiter, who resides with his mother at Tecate 120, Colonia

He said neighbors appeared to know very little

about PONSECA, contending that he was antisocial and had very

with anyone in the neighborhood. He stated the

neighbors advised him FONSECA was employed as a waiter, but

on 6/22/65, MEX-33

advised that FONSECA was not listed

as a member of the waiters

union in Monterrey, and he was not

known to administrative officers of the union.

On 7/31/65, MEX-26, who has furnished reliable infor

mation in the past, reported that FONSECA and his mother live

alone at Tecate 120, Colonia Las Mitras, and that neither of

them has much contact with neighbors.

He said it was the

general consensus in the neighborhood that PONSECA was not well

adjusted mentally, and the neighbors avoided his company in

the same manner that PONSECA appeared to detach himself from

them.

MEX-26 said that while it was generally believed in

the neighborhood that FONSECA was employed as a waiter,

he had

encountered no one who could identify the establishment in

Bureau

(2 Ilalson Section)

CONFIDENTIAL

Mexico City

JSL:mas

(4)

30d- 1900%

NW 46064

DocId: 32319374 Page 6

---

## Page 7

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-7674) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R - CUBA

(00 :DL)

5/21/65

ReDLairtel to Bureau, 11/23/64.

Recommunication reflects that MARINA OSWALD, wife

assassination of President JOHN F. KENNEDY.

Among this

correspondence, was a U. S.

"GRANY RICKERT", which is postmarked Toledo, 0h10, August

11, 1964.

For the info of the Bureau and Dallas, extensive

investigation at Toledo, Ohio, has failed to identify

"HAROLD STONER" and

"GRANT RICKERT"

The Bureau is requested to search its indices

concerning HAROLD STONER and GRANT RICKERT.

In the event no info is developed by the Bureau,

this matter will be placed in an RUC status in the Cleveland

Division.

2

2 - Dallas

- Bureau (RA

- Cleveland

(1 - 105-9163) (GRANT RICKERT)

(1 - 105-9164) HAROLD STONER

EPG : ktk

(7)

21.6. acti....

Juto

HW 46064 DocId: 32319374 Page 7

---

## Page 8

* 4-22 (9ev. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of

restigation

Records Branch

, 19-

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to tide Review

Attention

Return to

Fenchan

Supervisor

450KB

Room

Ext.

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

JAll References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

Main

References Only

Type of Search Requested:

Restricted to Locality of

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

_ Variations

Subject Harold Stone

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

Prod.

Олго

_ Date -

5-34

Searcher

Initials -

FILE NUMBER

137-10434

105-82555-5337

- 5354

B+Bu

AR(212, to Ohio)

NW 46064 DocId:32319374 Page 8

---

