# docid-32323109

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90010-10113

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-9734-749

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

KUYKENDALL

DL

DATE: 08/17/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

64

DocId: 32323109

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (134 22-607A)

0/20/62

DL6-5

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSITIL

ATF2-15-97BY 5668 SUD/IS

report anted 1/16/03 Laon D8-0-6e

1 This zopoxt has boon sortaliad

20

136-1A-607.

Informant dotoriood on 7/19/02 Shat J0B INDIN attended

a mooting at tho hono of TRANS ESDRANO, tho othors that vare predest

HANS MATER, D, O. CANCIA and MANY LuE CASTRO.

The moctior was

bold for the purpose of maklag plans to organico tho Latia Anerican

pooplo.

the poopic prosent remaizes thare tas as urgent road for

the Latle Anorican people to ba more politically sonsclous. Labor

poople capectaily realizo the lach of

peoplo bave ta. lobor untous, la Ract, their experiencos have

• been

that these paople, in tho mojosity, aro agalast tho unions.

They

sinittod that thoir lach of opportunity, broamashing had created

an them this attitudo. All of chon, espocially SEMILING and invEn

one pilling to do vetover is roguired, starting from whatever lovel

to holy theso 42,000 pooplo holy tbensalvos to a better education.

(Becently SIstPLItO trico to unionize

tho Babor Motel and failed,)

BOGIERO ONG DENIELING a8zod s, O, CABCIA questione

about the Intin-Anerica peoplo,:

And he ancored then as voll es

ho could.

CARCiA, who nover livea la the locia morionn community,

docan*t spont Spanish and zoally and not know much about the Latin

Anorican coumisty.

Do adnasted deter that ho bad mado a mistako la

the past and that was when bo thought that ho could do more success

ful 11 ho icolated binsoll. Iron tho Mexicozeinsican community.

GARCIA Baid that he would zus

for Stato zen

contative.

Labor poopto 14k0

0N00

Walas,

OSCAR MAUTY,

SINTELING

and wyce, have

plodged thoir support

to bane

2 + 134-14-507A

• 300-8002 (B. LANDIN)

200-9340 (E. MEDRANO)

AStrol (3. STALLINO)

ICEASE ASS OLG

100:20072 (8 VILLASANA)

100:9734 (G.5, FORUS)

100-073-21 (PEP)

EDS: 3e3

(8)

1 009734-749

SEARCHED...

INDEXED...

SERIALIZED.

FILED...

AUG 1 71961

FBI - DALLAS

NW 54463 DooId: 32323109 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL: 136-31-607A

Informant further dotermined they discussed

organisations in the Latin-inoricon community,

NC. STIPLING

thought that JIM TRUStLLO in fest Dallas headed ono grouy,

whIZe ALBERg CONBALEZ headed another ia North Dallas.

BIOR BORELIG

and don lakDiN oxplained to tho group that actually thore was not

an orgonization of Lasta-inerzcans.

TROJILLO and GOIBALEZ bad

no following mbatecover;

in facto

thoy had sotton their posstions

because some of the people in tho prescht meting hod definitely

helped thon to attain then. TIll added that both of thon bad

orna educatios and thor could aot sposk noither Spanish or. Engased.

They scally did not presont a problen.

. Both of thcm had behavod

ản such a may that the poople that: thoy luon to longer respocted

DISIPLING stated tbat this

ancilitatod anttora, which

monat

thoy did not noed no one $0

balag tbose two groups

Cogether a

since thoy did not onist.

CAnCZA proposod that the group pias for a dianer and

doned in honor of Sonator WINKY B, GOSASZE

The Sonator,

odded, vas an a holo to 95,000 - ta ta spont vay too much in

the scoatories race.

They could holy him with song funds and havlas

bin as a sponsor at the

dinoos and dance would got ming of-the

people togethas and the olfont to organito thon male be made then.

PRANS MEDRANO van pened to get the danco bali nad

charge os soling the tickets.

MARY LES CASTRO And IDA MORINO

no da chargo of propersog tho food, 30E LAXoIN de la chargo

of the publicaty, while Bum VILLADANA, BUS MAYOR, WARDY NOChaNG

v414 boad

the finance connittoo.

Jasormant doterained thet STIPLING ind tito to

about Cuba.

Do polated out that uhile CASTRO mas loaning toward

¡Bbat his revolution was communist

inspized, the

Cruce was that oue coverument bod control or the

Gubas econony and

the Cubans soro starving:

No added that the

Anorious people had beon so braimashod that they bolieved that

CASInO was ail to biano and voco for the invasion of Cuba: .30S

said that he noted that the CIA and the State bepartmons were

criticised not because they bolped to plan the tavation - but

Becauso

the ownsics falled!

to realiaed that spoghing out like this vas

unpopular are bao attitude was soo ol coplay quito. in diccusata

unpoputar subjects, He told then how he had lost a triond bocauce

ho had written a poon bonoring CASTRO vhon CASD3O pas DoDular,

tie added

that Forun soundor, Dr. Macros CAnciA, bod pitton in tho Forun's

a owepaper that the

• Mesicon Anerican people stood by whatever Kunrisas

dig in tho

Cuban eituation,

' Ilo one

scene to coro that they

14 54463

DooId: 32323109

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DE. 484-2A-607A

neza 140d to in the Jea

plone incident and aloo la the invaston of

Cuba:

SEBERLING seid it sas a sbare but at was bost to senin silent

os unpopular subjecso.

RANk cald Dallas ves a bolliob hole to

IAvg Sa,: 1000.

CASTRO

askod bin to explain:

Do eid that you could

not so: to a

restaurant with a colored porson, paby people vero

undezpald

one the shacks that como of tho Latin Anorlesse live In

voic

not sat for pigs to Live

10m in the

stato phero be come from.

Suo dinner and danoo niket»

tos the Senator will be lo

the last of August:

GARCIA 15 wasting for the Senator to col

bis conmitrent to be hore in Auguas.

After tho co firmatioa, is

recosved the publicity and tho tachot-solling will ators. Aiter the

soetinge

taey concanced that maste thessa was not als thoy

•yould ause dog

bin to bo, and is epite of bis past nistatos plus the foct that be

mos supportod by labor and coomad to ba honest, with good tateations,

thoy could support him an evong way thoy could,:

Intornant bad no addition] information.

On Saturday noring 1/15/62, JOB LANDIN Alstributod the

follonias notices

to the suriny neating.

Ko lass some 01 the nostcos

at barber shope, Stones and a cas atation:

"Thore pill pe a discuenion of dissoront subjeote.

for instance, no ena discuss the "Slaughtor Switch"

taazzoad crossing a0 Bondo and Mazzy Minos B3vd,

301s crossing bao claámed too miny 1ivaa is too

*We can discusa

higher education .*

the unjust uno 02

other prosion or

subject you trous inse to bring up.

"Tho tine indond is bore wben no should got together

to discuse our common probleno = porbags cagentee

to better outsolves; our neighbors e our comunity

and our city+

*So como

along

tring a friend, and joda in the

discinatos

cc Juet 1loten.

14 54463

DooId: 32323109

Page 4

---

## Page 5

ĐL 136-30-003A

membes Sundar, July 1050,

do Frank Modranolo

Done 8340 Douglas a 1A0-7808 - and remember

the timo:

8,ka

14 54463

DooId: 32323109 Page 5

---

