# docid-32572450

## Page 1

*EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION •

M. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION-

AUG 15 1961

TELETYPE

Hir. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoa

Mr. Evang

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

8/15/61 5-14 PM EST MR

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI 192-2914//92-29184 AND SAC, PITTSBURGH*

192-2361192-2281

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 2P

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, SÁMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. ON AUGUST

FOURTEEN LAST, JOSEPH R. MEROLA WAS INTERVIEWED AT USPO BLDGe,

MIAMI, FLA•, IN PRESENCE OF DJ ATTORNEYS WILLIAM KENNEY AND

WILLIAM KEHOE AT MEROLA-S INSISTENCE: INTERVIEW COMMENCED

IN LATE AFTERNOON AND MEROLA SET CONDITIONS HE WOULD NOT

TESTIFY TO INFORMATION FURNISHED, WISHED IDENTITY PROTECTED

AND WOULD NOT DISCUSS SUBSTANTIVE VIOLATIONS IN WHICH HE WA

PARTICIPANT. MEROLA FURNISHED BACKGROUND INFORMATION

CON -

CERNING, HIMSELF, GABRIEL AND SAMUEL MANNARINO AND THE HISTORY

OF THEIR ASSOCIATION. HE CHARACTERIZED GABRIEL MANNARIN® AS

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

SECOND ONLY TO ACTIVE JOHN LA ROCCA, PITTSBURGH, AND INÁCTIVE

FRANK AMATO, BRADDOCK, PA., AS TOP MEN IN WESTERN PA. FORGE - 2914-200

QUOTE NATIONAL CRIME SYNDICATE UNQUOTE. ALSO REFERSP TO

IS AUG 22 1961

BY MEROLA AS QUOTE THE OUTFIT UNQUOTE IZINFORMATION FURNISHED

суду

REGARDING INTERNAL DISSENSION IN MANNARINO ORGANIZATION IN

END PAGE 'ONE

5. 102

62 AUG 2 8 1968,

HH

45852 DooId: 32572450 Page 1

---

## Page 2

=*, PAGE TWO

NEW KENSINGTON, PA., WITH FORMER BODYGUARD JOHN FONTANA AND

FORMER QUOTE TRIGGERMAN UNQUOTE AL ROSS AT ODDS WITH KELLY

MANNARINO. MEROLA PREDICTS ANDY MANGINI, LIEUTENANT FOR

KELLY MANNARINO, WILL BE KILLED BECAUSE OF EXCESSIVE STEALING

FROM MANNARINO GAMBLING ENTERPRISES. MEROLA FURNISHED IDENTITY

OF ANDY MANGINI AS UNSUB IN LOADING OF STOLEN WEAPONS IN CASE

QUOTE STUART SUTOR, ET AL, IISP, TGP, FFA, NM, CONSPIRACY UN-

QUOTE AND OF THIEVES GEORGE FLOREA AND RICHARD STEWART. HE

FURNISHED OTHER POSITIVE INFORMATION IN THIS CASE• MEROLA

SAID QUOTE OUTFIT UNQUOTE BEHIND NEW DIXIE SWEEPSTAKES TICKET

OSTENSIBLY FOR BENEFIT OF PAN AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION

AND KELLY MANNARINO COMPELLED TO TAKE TEN THOUSAND BOOKS FOR

DISTRIBUTION IN HIS AREA. BELIEVES TICKETS PRINTED IN NEW

YORK CITY BUT HAS NO POSITIVE INFORMATION PRESENTLY. MEROLA,

AFTER SOME THOUGHT, RELENTED AND ALSO FURNISHED POSITIVE IN-

FORMATION ON SOME BURGLARIES AND ROBBERIES IN WHICH HE

PARTICIPATED OR KNEW

ABOT

4 INTERVIEW TERMINATED AT MEROLA-S

REQUEST ABOUT TEN P. M. DUE TO MEROLA-S PRIOR COMMITMENT FOR

DAYTIME OF AUGUST FIFTEEN, INTERVIEW TO RESUME SIX P. M. THAT

EVENING. SAS PORTELLA AND FORSYTH ANTICIPATE RETURN PITTSBURGH

AUGUST SIXTEEN NEXT•

END AND ACK PLS

HNe 12

NOR COMBEGLICA

NET: 1009111

6-21 PM OK FBI WA MLL.

k B.

PG KOK FBI PG DLH

TUWPT 898®

XEROX

Ald 2a 1961

HH

45852 DooId: 32572450 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PUERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S.*DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

L'OMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG1 71961

TELENPE

Mr. Tolson

Mir. Belmont

Mr. Mohr--

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel_

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

8-17-61

7-05

PM • DLH

TO

DIRECTOR; FBI 92-2914: 92-2918

FROM SẠC, PIITSBURGH 92-236 92-228

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, ARO SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR. RETEL

MIAMI TO BUREAU, AUGUST FIFTEEN LAST, CONCERNING STATEMENT OF

JOSEPH. R. MEROLA THAT QUOTE OUTFIT UNQUOTE COMPELLED KELLY

MANNARINO TO TAKE TEN THOUSAND. BOOKS OF NEW SWEEPSTAKES TICKETS

FOR DISTRIBUTION IN HIS AREA. ON EIGHT SEVENTEEN SIXTYONE, A

PCI OF PG OFFICE ADVISED HE HAS HANDLED TWO DOLLAR SWEEPSTAKES

TICKETS DASED ON DIXIE HANDICAP TO BE RUN AT PIMLICO FOR TWO

WEEKS• JOHN CIRIGLIANO, AKA, SHRIGGS, WHO IS DISTRIBUTOR IN

LOTTERY ISCKETS IS ALSO RELIVERING SNEEPSTAKES TICKETS SINGE

NEW KENSINGTON, PA•, AREA, FOR MANNARINOS RESEARDING TREASURY

DU ATTGINEYS, WILLIAM XENNY AND MILLIAM MANGE SALT THE A 2E NO

INDIVIDUALS TO BY THESE TICKETS WHO WILL TESTIFY, UACB, PG

PLANNING TO HAVE SAS NOT KNOWN TO RACKET ELEMENT BUY ONE OR MORE

TICKETS AT KNOWN NUMBERS OUTLETS IN OR NEAR NEW KENSINGTON.

BOTH

SUEJECIS SMOLD NE CONSIDE ARMAN DAMSEROUS.

END AND ACK PLS

O APN ORSABE WA RAMIRE

gria

Mire

I HEROS

to blong elementent, tet delu

AUG 23 1961l

NW 45852 DooId: 32572450 Page 3

UNRECORDED

COPY FILED IN

---

