# docid-32298449

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10225

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2914-1ST NR 18, 2ND NR 18

Releaned ander Bee Geta

Kerred:

Renaneirazter Reocade

144 FB0 2507 Bebel.

Jaeee:83, 45852 Sabe:

-23-222-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/21/1958

6

NRO, COOPERATING, GM, SM, ASSOC, B/F INT, ILLEGAL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/29/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

= =

v9.1

NW 45852 DocId: 32298449

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG: 92-228

92-236

Miami will also alert major airlines serving Cuba regarding the

likelihood of SAM MANNARINO traveling to Cuba as requested

in

Pittsburgh airtel dated 3/20/58.

investigation Requested in cubal us

is requested that sources in Havana and Camaguey,

contacted in an effort to confirm the allegation that NORMAN

ROTHMAN in

cooperation with the MANNARINO brothers, have slot

machines operating in the interior of Cuba, and 1f.

so, the extent

of their operation.

Sources should also be contacted

for any

information they may have that would confirm SAM MANNARINO'S.

statement about investing in the pineapple business.

It is also requested that sources familiar with the Island of

Pines be contacted to determine, if possible, whether GABRIEL

MANNARINO has been living aboard a houseboat in that area

since his disappearance from New Kensington, Pa., during 12/57.

Arrangements should be made with proper officials in Havana

to receive notification of SAM MANNARINO's arrival in Cuba since

as indicated in the enclosed memorandum, he has declared his

intention to return to Cuba for an extended period in the very

near future.

Sources in Havana should be alerted concerning

activities can' be followed closely. (*)(m)

The source mentioned in paragraph 1 of attached letterhead

memorandum is PG 545-C contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE

on 3/7/58.

The agent mentioned in paragraph 3 1S SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

The source mentioned in paragraph 4 is SA JOHN SCHWARTZ,

Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service, Pittsburgh,

contacted by SA DOUCE.

SAS mentioned in paragraph 5 are SAS PORTELLA and GENE H.

STUDEBAKER.

The source mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 8 1s

PCI,

Pittsburgh Office, contacted by SA DOUCE.

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE

JEK Act 6 (4)

ON

7-21-98 ouch!

-2-

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

AL

NW 45852 DocId: 32298449 Page 2

---

