# docid-32333914

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90108-10056

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3035-51

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

HODGENS

DL

DATE :

03/22/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

19.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32333914

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (370-101-281A)

3/22/67

SA DONALD *. DODGEMS

DI 274-3

On 3/7/57,

the above infomant, who has furnished

reliable infomation in the past,

furnished an oral report to

SA DONALD J. HODGENO

who reduced

at to writing on the sane

date -

This report mos read and authenticated by the iefor

mant on 3/14/07

The original ta located

* 1a DL 170104-281

and: the report raade as folloua:

"March 7, 1967

Dallas,

Jeres

*At

8:15 D.M.;

March 2, 3067, an

organs-

28610184

aceting ot

the Dallas Connittee for

• Zoncotul

Solution

1a Viet

. Nam was bald at

the Pirat Instarian Church,

4016 Normandy.

Dallas,

*There toro

about 70 porsons in

and

the only persons identifled wore

attendance

Dr.

Holbrooke Beltzer and a Rev.

Cox, a mlaister

fron

a Methodist Garch 1a

Dallas.

"Nick loymn sho has boon somethat active

ia ballas AP circles was soon in attendense.

nithe meeting

was led by Seltzes

and the

commonte of all

present was encoaragod.

The

discussion sentered on the névantages and

disadvantoses of continuing

" the sookly Saturday

peace vigal at Dealey Plazn

in Dallas.

1t Fas

agroce

that the vigil vould

continue because to

coate activities pov vould be

sage on detent.

62

5055

51

SEARCHED

INDEXED

1 - Dallas

I * Dallas

1

270- 101-2814

157-30 (AP)

100-11300 (DOPEVN)

Dallas

157-784 (N. LAMAN)

Dallag

157-403 (A. GRAY)

• Dallas

100-11101 (Bastor Vigil,

- Dallas

8- Dallas

100-11364 (H. S.

SELAZER

62-3005 (ACLU, Dallas)

DJ8: pw

(8)

SERIALIZED

..FILED.....

WAR 2 2 1967

FBI - DALLAS

137 Raach)

do 10928

53025

DooId: 32333914

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 170-10A-281A

"In addition, the number of participants attending

the vigil has increased over the weeks from 22

to 40 to 48 persons.

Seltzer urged all present

to try to get more people to join their ranks

on Saturday at the vigil.

"A committee was formed tostry and raise

funds to meet printing expenses.

$59.50 was

collected from those present.

"A committee was also formed to contact

various religious leaders in Dallas and try to

gain additional religious support for the vigil.

"The presence of the storm troopers of the

Dallas American Nazi Party (ANP) at the vigil site

was discussed at great length.

It was the general

opinion of those present that the storm troopers

were getting more publicity than the peace vigil

people.

Also, the spectators at the vigil site

were causing trouble and the vigil committee

feared violence might erupt. The vigil committee

characterized Alvis Gray, the ANP storm trooper

leader who has been giving speeches at the demon-

stration as malajusted, red-faced fool.

"It was the general opinion of those present

at the meeting that if violence erupted at the

vigil site it would be due to the group of anti-

nazi spectators who try to harass Al Gray and the

other storm troopers.

"Seltzer stated that the American Civil

Liberties Union was being called upon to deter-

mine if the rights of the peace demonstrators

was being violated as a result of the Dallas

Police Department officials taking photographs

of the demonstrators.

"Seltzer announched that there would be a

54 hour peace vigil in Dallas from 12 noon, Good

-2.

NW 53025 DooId:32333914 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 170-10A-281A

"Friday, March 24, 1967 to 6 P.M. Easter Sunday,

March 26, 1967.

He also said that he and 3

others from Dallas would join a group from

Houston, Texas and conduct a vigil outside

the LBJ Ranch, Johnson City, Texas on Easter

sunday. Seltzer said he hope

the group could

get a

Mr. Pepper, not further identified, to

speak at the vigil site near the LBJ Ranch.

"The meeting broke up at about 10:30 P.M."

ACTION:

All action necessary in connection with this

memo has been taken by the case Agent.

3

74 53025

DooId: 32333914 Page 4

---

