# docid-32292740

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10016

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1192

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

i DATE: 02/12/1963

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, B/F INT, ACT, JCE, PAL, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760

DocId: 32292740

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG '92-350

WEINER:

MARCY:

WEINER:

MARCY:

It's all because of PAT. I asked him not to go

nowhere, but he had to make his move.

And he said

I already went to HARRY BUSCH.

I told him we

don't need a lawyer, we're early by two months,

let's see who is going to be the Speaker of the

House.

Now FINLEY is sending feelers out.

He's in the Senate.

Yeah, I know, but he sent feelers out.

Well, he said he had it under control, but he

showed me the newspaper article in Springfield.

he

was asked for money to come in on this bill.

Next time I sit with PETE I'1l get him to hold

I'll call him now. And a G guy,

WEINER:

MARCY:

The FBI, what do they have to do with it?

That's what PETE wonders, they heard that money

is being passed.

WEINER:

MARCY:

WEINER:

So what do they have to do with that?

They wanted to check out the source.

Oh, those (obs)! They're always stickin' their

nose in.

MARCY on phone: PETE? Hi, pal, PAT. Listen on that thing that

you made me read today.

Can you hold that, I

want to show that to somebody.

Mail it to me.

I'll get it back

to you.

NOW,

I'm covering that

other base we talked about.

Yeah.

MARCY:

You got to let POLLACK know that he made some

moves to knock us.

OK. Now cover that base

and you're home free.

WEINER:

I'11 cover it the minute I walk out of this

office.

Right now.

Before, we had a meeting,

eight,

ten bondsman and I said we're early,

stand pat.

And they all hollered.

I had a fight

with PAT.

I went up to HARRY BUSCH's office.

I said PAT, we're early and he said I already

-4-

NW 45760 DocId: 32292740

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350

In order to implement this Judicial Amendment a bill has

been introduced in the Illinois General Assembly.

It is

believed that the legislation discussed above by WEINER

and MARCY concerns this bill.

It appears obvious that Illinois

Representative. PETER GRANATA has previously been approached

by MARCY at the request of WEINER to block passage of this

• legislation.

It would also appear obvious that he has been

promised $25,000 for his efforts in this regard. From the

above conversation it would also appear that as recently

possibly as last week GRANATA was interviewed by the FBI

in Springfield concerning his position in reference to this

legislation.

It is believed that the

mentioned

OTHER 4

hereinabove, is a CI of the Springfied Office.

Chicago is

not aware of the precise information leading to the approach

by the Springfield Office of the results of this interview,

and Springfield is requested to furnish this information.

It is noted that HARI

BUSCH iS HARRY JI BUSCH, a

Chicago attorney with offices at 134 North LaSalle.

CHICAGO, ILI.

reference to POLLACK is obviously a reference to Illinois

Assemblyman WILLIAM E. POLLACK of the Ninth District who

is former minority leader of the Illinois House of Representatives.

The feference to FLECK is apparently a reference to Chicago

Republican Ward Committeeman CHARLES J. FLECK of the 45th Ward

of Chicago.

Insofar

as is known he has no position in the

Illinois Legislature.

However, it is noted that FLECK, POLLACK

and BUSCH all have offices at 134 North LaSalle, Chicago.

The identity of SEYMOUR RADI or RABY is unknown, and Springfield

is requested to advise in the event this information is

available.

PAT CERONE is a Chicago bail bondsman who is a

nephew of Chicago top hoodlum JACKIE CERONE.

The reference

to PAT CERONE's uncle is obviously a reference to JACKIE

CERONE.

The reference to FINLEY is a reference to MORGAN N.

INLEY, representing the Ninth District of Illinois In the

Illinois Legislature.

The reference to PHILLY

is a reference to Chicago

top hoodlum FELIX "MILWAUKED PHILLY ALDERISIO, it being noted IlL

that WEINER is allegedly a front for ALDERISTO in the bonding

business.

The reference to JOHN COGHLAN is to the Chicago

attorney of that name who also has offices at 134 North

LaSalle in Chicago. Ill

-6 =

NW 45760 DocId: 32292740 Page 3

---

