# docid-32563818

## Page 1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SAVANNAH, GEORGIA

REPORT MADE AT

NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

TITLE

DATE WHEN MADE

6/13/44

NK FILE NO. 43-310

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE 5/5,

12,1716/44

CHANGIN

THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN;

JOEN JACK GROSSI, With aliases:

Jack Dale Williams, Giovanni

Grossi

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN V. CHAPMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ILLEGAL. WEARING OF UNIFORM

SELECTIVE SERVICE

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS: Subject GROSSI born 8/5/27, Paterson, N. J. Father, mother,

brother possess criminal records.

No record avallable on

sister, but has questionable characten and reputation.

GRO SSI

on probation, Paterson, No Jo, from 4/30/42 to 3/11/43,

when, due to continuous violations of parole, committed to

N. Jo State Reformatory. Parents divorced.

Poor background,

home and family life.

mcs

REFERENCES:

DETAILS:

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED

- RUC-

Savannah teletype to Newark dated May 8, 1944.

Newark teletype to Savannah dated May 12, 1944.

Savannah teletype to Newark dated May 12, 1944

Savannah teletype to Newark dated May 16, 1944.

Report of Special Agent TAYLOR JACKSON SIMS, dated

April 25, 1944, at Savannah, Georgia,

The title of this case is being marked CHANGED to reflect the

true name of

Subject JOHN JACK GROSSI, and to show his alias

aS JACK DALE WILLIAMS, which information was obtained from

Savannah teletype dated May 8, 1944. The alias of GIOVANNI

GROSSI is also reflected, which was obtained from the records

of the Passaic County Probation Office.

ex

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

SE 3

- REOORDED.

home

417-

BECEIAEO ZECHSILA

COPIES OF THIS REPORT: 183Z LI

OOPS IN BATH

i sp

3 - Savannah

2 = Newark!

14 1994

It-10557

74 45803

DocTd: 32563818

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NK 43-310

A review of instant file discloses that the following memorandum

was prepared by Special Agent CHARLES S. MAYFIELD, JR of the Newark Field Division

on May 5, 19448

JOHN GROSSI, 99 North Tenth Street, Paterson, New Jersey, called

the Newark Office on May 5, 1944, and advised thet an Agent had been to his home

to see him about the arrest of his son, JOHN GROSSI, in a, sailor's uniform at

Savannah, Georgia. He stated he would like to talk to an Agent..

Reference teletype dated May 8, 1944,

requested that the records

concerning Subject GROSSI'S birthdate and birthplace, legal residence and relatives

be obtained from the New Jersey State Home.

By reference teletype dated May 12, 1944, this office was advised

that the aforementioned investigation was not necessary.

Subsequently by reference

teletype dated May 16, 1944, the requests were again reiterated.

MR, JOHN JOSEPH GROSSI, father of Subject, residing at 99 North

Tenth Street, Paterson, New Jersey, and employed at the Crescent Fish Company,

11 Hudson Street, Paterson, New Jersey, stated that

he and his wife were divorced

many years ago.

To his knowledge JOHY, or JACKIE as he was called, was born on

either August 4 or 5, 1927, in Paterson, New Jersey.

He revealed that due to numerous difficulties in which Subject

became involved he was finally made

a ward of the State, and was given over

to the State Board of Childe PUSHNA GOSSI LNGOLD i8 30 Years of egg and

He stated that his wife's name was

ANNA ROSE WAR.

li's daughter,

presently resides at 286 - 17th Avenue, Paterson, New Jersey.

ALBERT GROSSI,

a son, 24 years of age, is presently serving overseas in the U.S. Army.

MR. JAMES GOURLEY, Passaic County Probation Office, Courthouse,

Paterson, New Jersey, summarised Subject's record with that departnent as follows:

He was brought into Juvenile Court on April 30, 1942, being 14

rears of age, charged with larceny of war stamps valued at $9.

For this offence

he was placed on probation, and was brought back to the Probation Office or

July 10, 1942, for violation of his parole.

Following the reprimand he was

continued on probation, and was again brought

in on August 21, 1942, after failing

to report to his parole officer.

At this time Subject was given a psychiatric examination. On the

same date he was turned over to the State Board of Children's Guardians, at which

time he was placed in a foster home, but continued in his nefarious ways. He was

finally committed to the Jamesburg Reformatory on March 11, 1943.

Sost-to

• NH 45803 DooId:32563818 Page 2

---

## Page 3

iNK

45-310

The records of the Probation Office reflected that Subject was

born August 5, 1921, in Paterson, New Jersey, The records lurther revealed that

Subject's father, who is approximately 41 years of age, has a rather lengthy

police record, commencing in 1920, offenses being disorderly person, assault

and battery, drinkenness, desertion, non-support, passing worthless

checks and

The records revealed that the mother and

father were divorced in June of 1935, and in August, 1929 she served ten days

in the Passaic County Jail of a thirty-day sentence

for the charge of abandonment

of minor

children.

On January 25, 1933 Subject's mother received a suspended.

sentence for being a disorderly person.

The records also reflected that Subject's brother, ALBURT, was

charged with larceny and receiving on April 22, 1938, was put on

probation, and

later on May 16, 1938, was brought in for the violation of this parole and

sentenced to the Annandale Reformatory for the crime of sodomy.

There was no record available in the Probation Office for

Subject's sister, EUGENIA.

MR. GOURLEY advised that to his knowledge she is

of poor moral character, and has been fortunate in not having acquired a criminal

record at this time.

Subject's birthdate was verified with the Bureau of Vital

Statistics, Paterson, New Jersey. In their records Subject is carried as

GIOVANNI GROSSI.

Special Agent WARREN J. LYNCH of the Newark Field Division

conducted the following investigation, as set forth in a memorendum contained

in the files of the Newark Field Division prepared by Field Supervisor MILION

R. : KAACK:

MR. VICTOR J. HALL, Assistant Superintendent, New Jersey

State

Home' for Boys at Jamesburg, advised that GROSSI had been a ward of the State.

He

had been in the custody of the State Board of Children's Guardians becaus

very

bad home conditions, his parents being divorced, and no suitable arrangements

He was incarcerated at the State Home for Boys on March 11, 1943,

the charge being stealing from Passaic County, believed to be Paterson,

New. Jersey

to be employed

from the cash register and ran away.

$38 due him at that time for wages.

It was stated he had, however, more than

Ihe State Home for Boys was advised by EDWIN HARDINGSON, Chief

U. S. Probation Officer, Post Office Building, Savannah, Georgia,, that

the boy

had been picked up on a charge of illegal wearing of the uniforn,

and

that

they did not intend to hold him, and wanted to know if the State Home would

come for him or wanted him held. The State Home was unable to send for him

= 3=

NW 45803 DooId: 32563818

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 43- 310

because of the distance involved, and said they didn't want him held.

MR. FITCH, Superintendent of the State Home,' received a letter

on May 16, 1944, from the

subject, stating that he was,very sorry he had

disappointed MR.

FITCH, and didn't want the police to be constatly looking for

him, and that he would work his way back to the State Home, if it took him a

month.

The records of the State Home show the date of birth for the

Subject as August 5, 1927; at Paterson, New Jersey, and his last residence in

Paterson as 81 Temple Street®

The following investigation was conducted by Special Agent

WILLIAM V. CLEVELAND:

EDWARD I, COFFEY, Bureau of Vital Statistics, Atlantic City,

New Jersey, checked the birth records for the years 1926, 1927 and 1928, with

negative results, under the name THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN.

MR. COFFEY suggested

that: Subject HERMAN'S birth was probably recorded in Irenton, New Jersey.

This case is being Referred upon Completion to the Office of

Origin.

REFERRED UPON

COMPLETION TO THE OFFICE OF ORIGIN →

= 4=

30d-10a

45803

DooId: 32563818

Page 4

---

## Page 5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

BAVANETAS,

CHORIZA

REPORT MADE AT

NEVARE, NEV JERS

TITLE

DATE WHEN MADE

6/73/44

CHANGER

FILE NO.

43-310

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE 5/

12,17,18/44

CLOMAS

JORT JAGE 080801, 119h aliasess

Jack Dalo Williens,

Covannl Crossi

REPORT MADE BY

JOSH V, CHAPLAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITINGA NRAZING ON UNIDORI

SORBONITE SUEVICH

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS: Subjeet 030591 bom 0/5/27, Paterson, He to

Father, mother,

brother possoss orininal records.

No rocord avniinble on

sistes, bat has quostionble charcter and reputation.

0rO88E

on probation, Peterson, No Jo, from 4/30/40 to 3/11/45,

shen, due to contimone violntione of perole, contied to

1. 3, State Reformntory, Parento divoreede

Poor backeroute

home and fonily l1f0.

FANATICS 3:

DESAIL SI

Serrie solotype to Sevannch dated May 12, 1044.

Savannah teletype to lovart dated Hay 18, 1944

Envonash teletype to Movank Anted Mny 16, 1944.

Report of Special Agent PAVLOR JAOKSON SINS, dated

Ap242 05, 2044, at Bernant, Georgle.

The title o2 thin enco to being marked MANOND to reflect the

tzue nane of Bungeet JOID JA0K 0308SX, and to shou his alias

SO JACK DALS WILLIARE, which Information was obtained frea

Sevennah toletype dated Noy 8, 1941.

the salaa of GIOVANUX

on0sal is also reflectod,

shich une obtained fron the secondo

68 $ho Posende Gounty Erobation Office,

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureat

So vaninnh

Heunzle

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

43-5359-3

FILE COPY

7-2031

S0t-1512

HH

45803

DooId: 32563818

Page 5

---

## Page 6

N$ 43-310

A corion of inotant file Alecloses that the following nonommun

uns prepared by Special Agent (HARDDS & MAYTIMID, JR of the Hourt: Field Divicion

on Hey Sp

9p North Kenth Stret, Peterson,

Hew Jersey,

colled

the Newarks Office on May 5;

1904, and advised that an Agent had been to

• hi a hone

Savanna, Goosgis:

Referenoe belatype anted May 8, 1944 zonented that the recosda

concerning Pubjeet OA0S9t'9 birthdate end birthylnee, legel rosidenco and reletives

be obtained from

the Now Jorsey State Hond.

Dy referenco toletype dated Way 12, 1944, thin offlee ma advisod

that the adoromentioned investigation tas not necessaw.

Subsequently by referenco

tolotype dated Noy 16, 1944,

the requesto voro again reiteratod.

ME, VOIN JOSH CROSSE, fatber of Subject, roniding nt 99 Morth

Tenth Street,

Paterson, Hey Jersey, and empleyed nt

the Crescent Fish Company;

11 Hudson Stroot, Patereon, Mow Jercoy, statod that he and hie vife vere divorced

many years 180.

So his lovedgo domi, or Jolts no be uns called, ung born on

althor August 4 or 5, 1937, in Paterson, New Jerney.

No covenled that due to numerous diffioulties in which subject

Deone involved ho una finolly ndo e vird of the State, and una given over

te the

State Bord of Children's. unrelane.

He stated thint hin aife's name

ANIMA ROOR

WAR, To daughter,

SUSHLA GROSSI ANGOLD Lo 20 yenre of ago and

presently resides at 385 - 17th Avenue, Interson, lew Jorney.

ALBIZE CROSDE,

son, 34 yenro of age,

la presently serving oversane in the U. S. Arry.

HI: JAMA COUTLIN, Peasate County Probation Optico, Courthouse,

Paterson, Now

forney, sumerid fabject's rocord with tiat deprinent ne follows

Ho was brought into Juvenile Gourt on Apsil 30, 1942.

boing 14

yoors of ago, charged utch larcony of var ataupo valued at $9.

For thie ofteneo

ho mo pleced on probation, and vos brought back to the Probation Office on

July 10, 1942, for violntion of his parole,

Selloving tho reprimand he uns

continued on probation, and me nonin brought in on Auust al, 1942, alter falling

to roport to his perole officer.

At this tine Sanjeet me given a poychiatrio examination. in the

sane Cate he use tumod over to the Stete Board of Childrente Gurdiana,

at which

he wa placed tn e foster: hong,

but continued in his neforious ys.

Ho was

finally connieted to the Jonesbang resornatory on larch 11, 1240.

Sand.

74 45803 DocТd:32563818

Page 6

---

## Page 7

X: 40 210

Tho zecorde of the Probation 02fico reflocted that bubject wo

born Auguet 5.

2027, In Daterson, Hey Joraey-

• The records further revanied that

Subject'o father, uho te approzintoly 41 yenre of ago,

has a rother lengthy

police record, commencing in 1920, offences beine disorderly porson, soonlt

nd battery, drunkenneas, desortion, non-stpport, paseine vorthloos

checko and

abandonnont and cruelty to children.

the records

rovented that the nother and

fothes vero Avorcod sa June of 1935, end

In Angust, 1990 she servod ten days

1n the Pascaie Connty Unil of a thirtyedny nontence

for the charge of abandonnent

of minor children

On danunty 25, 1903 fu)ject 'e nother roceived a ramponded

antonce sor boing o disorderly pozcone

she godordo nleo reflected that Sabjeetle brother, ALDIE, wen

charged with Inceny and recolving on April 34, 1980, ma put on probation, end

lates en Rey w6, 1903, uns brought in for the violation of.

thie parole and

sontonect to the Annanênie Befomntory for the crime of sodoug.

Chero me no record avallable in the Probation 021ice for

Subjectle elster,

EUGENIA, ME. COURtaY adviaod that to hio Inowledgo she is

of poor mornt ebomoter, end hao boon fortunte in not hnving neguired a arialnal

recom at this Mine.

Cub feet a birthinto me verifted oth the Dureru of Vital

Statistie, Fatorson, Hew Jereoy.

In their recordo Subjoot le carried aB

GIOVAIEL COOSE.

Spectal Agont WARRRU 5, LYNOR of the Hoiste Plold Diviston

conducted the followine inventlantion, ns sot forth in a menomndun contesned

In tho filoo of tho Movrie Pield Diviston propered by Field Sipervisor MIZON

1, KAAGE:

18 VICHOR Jo HAll, Assiotont Supertntendent, Her Jory State

Somo for Boys nt domenbure, advisod that: 080581 hed boen & ward of the State.

hed beon in the custody of tho State Board of Children'e Cusrions becase of vory

Bad hono conditione, hio parente being divorcod, and no suiteblo arrangemente

could be mado fob the care of tho boy.

30 ma Anonroerated at the State Hone for Boys on Barch 11, 3945,

the charge being stealing from Pageate County, belleved to be Patorion,

Dew Jeracy.

Do heû been releacod on a temporary parole basis, to be employed

aộ Adrian'e Diner, Grenbury, Hew Jersey, and while employed there, stole $3s

from the coch zogieter and ran euny,

It una stated he hed, hovever, more than

036 due hin at that timo for mense

Stete Hone for Boys une advised by JOVEN RADIOSy, Chicl

% # Probation officox, Post Offlee Bullding,,

Savennah, Georgia, that

the boy

hi beon picked up on a chnego of lilegal venring of the taifom,

and that

thoy did not intend to hold him, and minted to know 1f. the State Homo would

come

for his or ventod him held.

The State Kome wee unable. to send for hin

74 45803 DocТd:32563818

Page 7

---

## Page 8

AX 43:310

becauso of the distance involvad, and snid they didn't wont him hold.

3G. NI9CA,

on May 16, 2044,

fron

Saporintendent of tho

State Flono,

received a letter

Subfoot, ototing that

he ted very sorry he hnd

disappointed Nie

9xsem, and dan't aunt the police to

him, and that ho would work his my badc to

the

be conotally looking for

State Hono, 12 1t took bin

monthe

the roconds of the atete lome how the date of birth for

Subjoct no huget S, 1927, at

Foterson;

Doy forcer, mod his lect rentience in

Paterson ao 8l Temple Streate

The foliosing Investigntion und condusted by Special Agent

BOVAZD To GOTTAY, Burenu of Vital Statintles, Atlantio 01ty,

New Jerney, checked the birtl: recorde for the years 1926, 1927 and 1923, wlth

neative remito, tader the name THOMAS MARYRY ENEMAN.

DOR. CORTET suggested

that Subject RADIANS tirth unn probably recorded in Frenton, New Jersey.

This ense in Doing Boferred upon Complotion to the Defleo of

Origin,

TUTERRUD, UPON COMPINSION DO SHE OIDINI OF

45803

DooId: 32563818

Page

---

## Page 9

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

SAVANIAL,

GEORGIA

REPORT MADE AT

NAVARR, MEN JERSEY

TITLE

DATE WHEN MADE

6/13/44

CHANGED

THOMAS HARVEY HERMAN;

JOHN JACK GROSSI, With allases:

Jack Dale Willlans, Glovanni Crossi

MIK FILE NO.

43-310

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE 5/5,

13,17,18/44

REPORT MADE BY

JORN V. CHAPMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

ILLEGAL WEARING OF UNIVORM

SELECOIVE SORVIC

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS: Subject GROSSI, born 8/5/27, Paterson, I. J.

Father,

mother,

brother possess criminal records. No récord avnilable on

sister, but has

questionable character and reputation.

GROSSI on probation, Patereon, N. J.,

• from 4/30/42 to 3/11/43,

when, que to continuous violations of parole, conmitted te

N. Jo State Reformatory. Farents divorced.

Poor background,

home and fanily 11fe,

nos

REFERENCES:

DEVAILS:

Savannnh teletype to Newark dated Nay 8, 1944.

Newark toletype to Savannah dated May 18, 1944.

Sevennah teletype to Newark dated May 12, 1944

Bavanash teletype to Newark dated May 16, 1944.

Report of Special Agent TAYLOR JACKSON SIMS, doted

April 25, 1944,

at Savannah, Georgia.

The title of this case 10

being marked CHANGND to reflect the

true name of subject dont daok Grosse.

and to show his allas

aS JACK DALD WILLIAMS which information was obtained fron

Savannah toletype dated May 8, 1944, The alias of GIOVANNI

GROSSI is also reflected, which was obtained from the recorde

of the Passale County Probation Office.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL. AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

Bureau

Savannah

2 - levarke

45803 DooId:32563818 Page 9

---

## Page 10

NK 43-310

was prepared by

on May 5, 1944%

A review of instant file discloses that the following memorandu

Special Agent CHARLES, & MAYTIIID, JA of the Newark Field Division

JOHN GROSSI, 99 North Tenth Street,

Peterson, Hew Jersey, colled

the Newark Office on lay 5, 1944, and advised that on Agent had been to his home

to see him about the arrest of his son, JOHr GROSSI, in e sailorle uniform at

savannah, Georgie.

He stated he would like to talk to an Agent.

Reference teletyne dated May 8, 1944, requested that the records

concerning Subjeot CROSSI's birthdate and birthplace, legal residence and relatives.

bo obtained frow the New Jersey State Home.

Ly reference teletype dated May 12, 1944, this offico was advised

that the aforementioned investigetion we not necessary.

Subsequently by reference

teletype dated May 26, 1944, the requests wer agein reiterated.

MR. JOHN JOSIPH GROSSI, father of Subject, residing at 99 Horth

Tenth Street, Paterson, New Jersey, and employed at the Crescent Tish Company,

11 Hudson Street, Paterson, Ney Jersey, stated that he and his wife were divorced

many years ago.

To his knovledge JOlT, or JACKID ae he vas called, as born on

elther August 4 or 5, 1927, In Paterson, New Jersey.

He revealed that due to nunerous difficulties in which Subject

becane involved he was finally made a ward of the State, and me given over

to the State Board of Children's Guardians.

He stated that his wife's name

was

ANNA ROSE WAR

His daughter, BUGSNIA GROSSI HUGOLD is 20 yens of age and

presently resides at 286 - 17th Avenue, Paterson, New Jersey.

ALBERD QC0S6I,

a son, 24 years of ago, is presently serving overseas in the U. S. Army.

He was brought into Juvenile Count on April 30, 1942, being 14

veers of age, charged with larceny of war stamps velued at $9.

For this offence

he was placed on probation, aud was brought back to the Probation Office on

July 10, 1942, for violation of his parole. Following the reprimand he vas

contiaued on probation, and was agein brought in on Auguet al, 1942, after falling

to report to his perole officer.

At this time Subject vas given a psychiatrio examination. On the

sane date he was turned over to the State Board of Children'e Guardians, at which

time he was placed in a foster home, but continued in his nefarious wys.

He was

finally conmitted to the Janesburg Refornatory on March 11, 1943.

- 2=

god: 1033-

NW 45803 DooId:32563818

Page 10

---

## Page 11

JK 43: 310

Thở

records

of the Probation Office reflected that Subject was

bom August 5, 1927, In Paterson, New Jersey. The records further revealed that

Sabjecole

father, who is approxinately 41 years of age, has & inther lengthy

poLice record, commencing in 1920, offenses being disorderly person, assault

and battery, drunkenness, desertion, non-support, passine wortaleas

checks and

abandonment and cruelty to children.

The records revenled that the mother and

father vore divorced in June of 1935, and in August, 1929 she served ten days

in the Passaie County Jail 'of a thirty-day sentence for the charge of abandonment

of minor chlidren...

On January 25, 1933 Subject's mother received a suspended

sentence for being a disorderly person.

The recorde also reflected that fubject's brother, ALBIRI, was

charged with larceny and receiving on April 22, 1938, was put on probation, and

later on May 16, 1938, was brought in for the violation of this parole and

sentenced to the Annandale Reformatory for the crime of sodomy.

There was no record available in the Frobation Office for

subject's sister, DuGNIA.

ME. GOULaY advised that to his knowledge she 10

of poor noral character, and has been fortunate in not having acquired a criminal

record at this time.

Sub joct's birthdate was verified with the Burenu of Vital

Statistics, Paterson, New Jersey. In their records

Subject is carried as

GIOVANNE GROSSI.

Special Agent WARREN S. LYNCH of the Newrk Field Division

conducted the following investigation, as set forth in & menorendum conteined

in the files of the Nework Field Division prepared by Field Supervisor MILLON

R. КАЛОК:

NE. VICTOR J. HAIL, Assistant Superintendent, New Jersey State

Home for Boys at Jonesburg, advised that GROSSI had been s. ward of the state.

He

had beon in the custody of the State Board of Children's Cuardions because of very

bad home conditions, his parents being divorced, and no sultable errangements

could be made fot the care of the boy.

He was incarcerated at the State Home for Boys on March 11, 1945,

charge being stealing from Passaic County, believed to be feterson,

New Jersey.

Re hed been released on a temporary parole basis, to be employed

at Adrion's Diner,

cranbury, new Jersey, and while employed there, stole $38

from the coah regioter and ran away..

It was stated he had, however, more then

$38 due him at that time for wages.

The State Home for Boys was advised by EDWIN HARDINGSON, Chief

u.

S. Probation Officer, Post Office Building, Savannah, Georgia, that the boy

bad been ptoled up on a charge of allegl wearing of the unifor lone vould

they did not intend to hold him, and wanted to know if the State

come for him or wanted him held.

The State Home was unable to send for him

• 30.

204-19502

74 45803 DocId:32563818

Page 11

---

## Page 12

NK 48-310

becouse of the distance involved, and snid they didn't want him hold.

MR. PITCH, Superintendent of the

State Hone, rocoived a letter

on May 16, 1944; from the Subjoct, stating that he wes very sorry he hac

11 sappointed MR. FITCH, and didn't vant the police to be constatly looking for

him, and that he would

work his way back to the state Home, 11 it took hin

month.

The records of the State Home show the date of birth for the

Subject ao hugust 5, 1927, at Peterson, Now Jersey, and his last reaidence in

Paterson as 81 Pemple Street.

The following Investigation wes conducted by Special Agent

WILLIAM V. CHOVELAND:

BOVARD L. COMMY, Burenu of Vital Statistics, Atlentic City,

New Jersey, checked the

birth records for the years 1926, 1927 and 1928, with

negative recults, under the neme THOMAS HARVEY FORMAN.

COrrEY cuggested

that Subject HURMAN'S birth was probably recorded in Trenton, New Jersey.

• This case is being Referred upon Completion to the Office of

Origin.

- REFERRED UPON CONPINTION TO THE ÓFTICO

OF

ORIGIN

74 45803

DocId: 32563818

Page 12

---

