# docid-32323409

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90019-10051

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4623-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

SIZOO

TO: SULLIVAN.

DATE: 04/26/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ALEXANDER I. RORKE

ALEXANDER RORKE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32323409

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mgte).

DATE: "31-14-2017

NO. TO

UNITED STATES GOVERNM

Memorandum

SECRET

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

,oach

Evans

Gale

Rosery

Sulliv

Tavel

SHOWN

16

HERDIN

160481

20/87)

ONE FIRAGIZED

W COMMITTEE

TO

Mr. Sullivan

DATE: 4/26/63

FROM:

Classhied

•J. A. Sizool

CIng

68123 mit /0

ty on

Classifted

23 closel

Declassin: DADR

SUBJECT:

ALEXANDER I. RORKE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

appeal

FOREIGN DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITIES - CUBA * U

SE

SA James Blasingame, Washington Field Office, telephonically

advised Supervisor Andrew J.

Domestic Intelligence Division

at 10:20 p.m, 4/26/63 that

had advised that a letter of s

§protest had been sent from Raul Roa, Minister of Foreign Relations,

Cuba,

to Miroslav Ruzek, Ambassador, Embassy of Czechoslovakia, Washington

D. C. for delivery to

S. Department of State. The text of this

message is as follows:

The Ministry of

External Affairs sends its greetings to the

Honorable Embassy of the Socialist Republic of Czechosolvakia and

requests it to present to the State Department of the United States of

America in its capacity as the representative of the interests of Cuba

in said country, the following note:

"On April 25, at approximately

nine o'clock p.m., a twin-engine plane proceeding from a northern

direction flew over the 'Nico Lopez' refinery" and dropped a one-

hundred pound bomb and several containers with

inflamable material of

Napalm type, which did not explode.

Immediately after dropping

its

deathly cargo the plane disappeared in the direction it had come

from.

en the 26th, U.S. Cable Agencies released the news that a

United States citizen, Alexander Rarke, had declared to newspapermen

CLASSIFIED DO

in Washington that he rode in the twin-engine plane which bombed the

refinery and that another of the Americans who participated in the

BY DEPAR

attack was a student. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology COU

The absolute impunity that this plane was/to leave and then

retura to united states ferretery in the subsequent declaration made in

othe very Capitol city of the United States of America by one of its

screw members?.

plus the fact so far no action is known to have been

taken by the authorities of that country,

prove that the North American

•Government can not escape responsibility

for these acts which would

5/8/91

have caused civillan casualties had the objective bees accomplihad al

The circumstances and the manner inwhich this aggression

was carried out demonstrate that the

decisions announced publicly

byte

the United States of America apparently made to

EX-

1117

1 - Mr. Evans

Mr. Belmont

1

Mr.

Sullivan

- Mr. DeLoach

AJD: djm

5/8

DA AY

963

Mr o

Nascalz MAY 13 1963

Mr. Decker

SECRET

1/29163,

97-4623

DocId: 32323409

Page 2

---

