# docid-32291207

## Page 1

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 U5C 2107 HotelS

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10483

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4133-141

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: "N

DATE: 07/23/1965

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MRR, ASSOC, FS, ACA, ATTACK, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32291207

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

144

USC 2107

Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017-

4-ö-(Mev. 12-14-64)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEI

HEREIN

IS UNCI

ASTED EDIE CODED

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE.

LAIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

COPY

RADIO

&& TELETYPE

ROC

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

De Loach

Casper

Callahan .-

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivar

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

NO OBJECTION

TONI AND/OR

Mi DOMATION

mKIt

EN

DECLASSIFCAT

RELEASE OF

12:

AM DEFERRED 7-23-65 RW

TC

OF DIRECTOR

FROM MIAMI 230300 Class

A SPEN

ad- JEK.

11pm REASON

DITH OF RETIEW

71231

Decisssity

-MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACIÓN REVOLUCIONARIA (MRR) IS-CUBA.

REBUTEL CALL TO MIAMI ON JULY 23, 1965 BY BUREAU SUPERVISOR

ANDREW DECKER, RE POSSIBLE ATTACK AGAINST CUBA BY MRR.

ON INSTANT DATE CIA MIAMI ADVISED IT HAS NO OPERATIONAL

INTEREST IN/MER, OR ITS LEADER MANUE,

UESACO UL)

ON INSTANT DATE PSI ANGEL YERGA, WHO HAS FURNISHED

-SLO/KSR

RELIABLE INFO IN THE PAST ADVISED HE WAS IN NICABAGUA TWO

WEEKS AGO. AT THAT TIME ARTIME WAS THERE BUT MAR HAS NO

5068.

OFFICES OR OPERATIONS THERE. YERGA SAID MAR REPORTEDLY

(JFK).

HAS TWO UNIDENTIFIED AIRPLANES IN PANAMA. YERGA HAD NO INFOL

ABOUT ANY PROPOSED RAIDS BY MR.

EYERGA CLAIMED MER CONTINUES

TO RECEIVE MONEY FROM CIA AND ARTIME LS REORGANIZING MRS (U)

ON INSTANT DATE ALFRÉDO BORGE 8

CAIGNET ADVISED THAT ON

DECLASSIFIEO

3-5-98

001

JULY 16, 1965 HE WAS IN THE

• CAMAGUEY RESTAURANT IN MIAMI

AND OVERHEARD TWO UNIDENTIFIED CUBANS TALKING. THESE CUBANS

SAID THERE MIGHT BE SOME SORT OF AN ATTACK, BY AIRPLANE,

LAGA NAMEURURAMON JULY 26, 1965. THEY MENTIONED: THAT FRAN

LAW WIGHT PARATE

BORGES DID NOT OVERHEAR ANY

FURTHER,

INEO

"LATER

HE DAY JULY 16, 1865 BORGES. HAPPENED TO MEET

FRANK ANTHONY

STURGIS AKA FRANE

JORIN! ON A STREET, IN MIAMI

Stati

IT farce

7

EX. = 107

1-Cuoton

rf.w. Yeagley

CONFMENTIAL

If the intelligence contained in the above message

is to

be disseminated

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

67-4133

Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId: 32291207 Page 2

---

