# docid-32576421

## Page 1

FD 3869er. 14-13-50)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F B I

Date:

1/27/65

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (

SAC,. CHICAGO (98-1173)

SIA COSA NOSTRA

AR

Re report of

SA BRADNER C. RIGGS dated 11/20/64

at Chicago, captioned "JOSEPH ZAMMUTO, ala; AR. "

Referenced report sets forth information obtained

on 10/30/60, from CG 6343-C*=

This informant advised that

JOSEPH ZAMMUTO was the boss in Rockford, Illinois, and JASPER

CALO the under boss according to information furnished to the

informant by JACK CERONE,

It should be noted that CALO was always known as the

boss in Rockford by general reputation.

On 9/9/64, MICHAEL IASPARRO, Duputy Sheriff,

Winnebago County Sheriff's Office, advised SA BRADNER C. RIGGS

that JASPER CALO was the undisputed boss of the Italian

underworld in Rocklord before he returned to Sicily in 1961,

and was referred to by members of the Italian underworld in

Rockford as the "Don."

3

3

Bureau - (RM)

Milwaukee

(RM)

1 - 92-262

2

= 137-1318

Springfield

(FRANK ZITO; AR) (Into,) (RM)

Chicago

2 = 92-1173

1

= 92-1707

REC 61

92-6054-918

HO JAN 20 :965

BCR : MJD

(10)

C C= Wick

frys

6

4 FEB 5

Approved:

NW 45839 DooId: 32576421

Page 1

Sent

Per

---

## Page 2

CG 92-1173

fle is assigned as a detective in that department and in this

capacity his partner is Deputy Sheriff JOSEPH MANDELI....

Much

01

IASPARRO's information comes to him through his close

association with HANDElL.

MANDELL IS a COUSin Of JOSEPH ZAMNUTO'S

wite.

It should be noted that MANDELL has been contacted in

the course of the is Cosa Nostra investigation at Rockford and

has beer quite uncooperative in that he indicates he has no

knowledge of the individuals involved.

FOR THIS REASON EXTRENE

CARE SHOULD BE TAKEN THAT THE SOURCE OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS

NOT COMPROMISED THROUGH DISCLOSURE OF HIS IDENTITY.

LEAD

MILWAUKEE

AT MILWAUKEE WISCONSIN®

Contact MI 623-C-TE for

purpose of determining whether this informant can corroborate

the above information.

74 45839

DooId: 32576421 Page 2

---

