# docid-32105711

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8/27/201

AGENCY:

KISS/SCOW

RECORD NUMBER :

178-10004-10307

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

SCOWCROFT MEMCONS, HANDWRITTEN

JANUARY 1975

Released under the John F.

1992

144 USC

107 Notel.

Case#: NUT 54214

ate: 09-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

WH

SCOWCROFT, BRENT

P/K 5 MAR 75

DATE:

03/05/1975

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

KISSINGER, HENRY A.

SCOWCROFT, BRENT

ASSASSINATIONS, FOREIGN LEADERS

CIA

COLBY, WILLIAM E.

FORD, GERALD R.

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IC

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1993

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Participants: Ford, Kissinger, Scowcroft. Handwritten notes. For typed transcript see ID:

1781000410295.

WH 54214 DocId: 32105711 Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

178-10004-10307

UNMARKED NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION_

5 Tras 25

9:4. 19:0.319121

P The Ironin chool played all.

KIt way to sal up-bout it did ocean with

On $40 Grant a Pist. Stett Strink it a thatter

He hill for lotto your lifts cos

up a wist pasite sit. Colly intented he

want spendit, what did you think, Beat

The acher tage is the fu is chost criter tes

and a tremat party pile is doting for tossing

that lam any at all get to beling do pee.

That is chat we ch it in Clike

it separable, why short did tre?

That is a lipples.

Shall I talk to Chrish

in Chile in Ci. Hens sand it coolint ank.

Than latera pape ho tried at it ass crocial ory

HH 54214

DocId:32105711

Page 2

poling is working. They are no longer perping it.

carpen.

P. what happen in FEH.

t to tail i wasted and ast cilt some, alll...

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

---

## Page 3

has cas

P. Sore f trait people in Ears swat ser an

au taking produce, need mend

K That's pit, One ovay would be to raise price. suit is as

ut could get at taste deal not to Ent prod. That is.

che, this classicate companga of a Jero is critiger

Esterpie, My sen it pared then 7 tic

KIfurt. They will and the son neights

cahr ene distrubin.

fa a and field not even a stal purpo

I wand teter Atter pan you sagin

you sini ta still to if it pot sine

I think in fist cant got liver de lang an fort

P the tongert postin h get then to out is orlant

I fever.

Kasal has end untied econd the tinted

esperate and sija a pure teat, He eras erich;

, he cranked

Le and oration it indys stores than E and thron

We can move it to Cera upte i setted - but

Chint to tricky. Did the til tina tinth

farvath that Not whold mahe an effort and roun

as E-I first.

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

HH 54214

DooId:32105711 Page 3

---

## Page 4

p shatis in puferei

X the big ise is cit you tod in I for antine

Synon more.

I Schich Good will wort teething lopre Grien-

K yes, hat you have to beren thiat world be berty

It is mistent whather t can tele Crad wa trill make

FLI.

Pf you chis that is the last try h get purzess, s

an fa it,

I t anviel Sigein tregst, se Syeie wout weith.

P. Cant aire crist to gord Inith epput?

-Icornt brokt it:

P Ce yond font efort t ine is cre whnd the perte

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

HN 54214 DocId:32105711 Page 4

---

## Page 5

So will every e care to yet everyone to cite thint

could to fine!

Photocopy

from

Gerald R. Ford Library

HW 54214

DocId: 32105711

Page 5

---

