# docid-32323145

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90010-10149

DL

100-9734-784

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BROWN

DL

DECLASSIFIED

Department of State

Fuidelines, July 21,

10-12-2017

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/16/1962

1

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

14 54463

DocId: 32323145

Page 1

84

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (134-1A-6999)

10/16/62

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

DL-6-S

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIMIED

DATE 2-15-973Y.5668 SUD/ISK

On 10/4/62, DL-6-S, in person, furnished a type-

(ПКК)

written report to SAW. HARLAN BROWn, which report is dated

9/25/6z, and has been serialized as 134-1A-699A

That report revealed at a recent PASO state meeting,

attended by Mr. and Mrs. J. O. GARCIA, IDA MORENO and FRANKLIN

GARCIA, JOHN CONNALLY was endorsed for Governor of Texas on

the condition that CONNALLY should attempt to have the poll tax

replaced with a just registration law. Also at the meeting,

WAGGONER CARR was endorsed unconditionally and the PASO's con-

stitution was amended, making a constitutional and procedure

committee.

FRANKLIN GARCIA is on the constitutional committee

and J. O. GARCIA is on the other.

J. O, praised DI. HECTOR P. GARCIA, founder of the

American GI Forum, who j. O. said did a magnificent job in

founding the Forum in a time when educational facilities were

not easily obtainable to the latins.

J. 0. felt Dr. GARCIA

does not realize latins today are smarter than Latins were 15

or 20 years ago, and Dr. GARCIA's present day political

philosophy is based on the past. J. O. advised GILBERT GARCIA,

who has worked for CONNALLY in the gubernatorial primaries,

had made a resolution endorsing CONNALLY unconditionally, but

the resolution had been opposed by members of his own delegation.

J. O, also praised the PASO Chapter in New Braunfels, as it had

been instrumental in electing their candidate to office of

Congressman.

JOE LANDIN that 'ALBERT PENA,

a PASO official, had made a"moving" speech on coalition, which

speech was to be mimeographed and mailed to Texas PASO members.

Informant had no additional information.

1 - 134-1A-699A

1 - 100-671-8 (Political Activities)

- 100-10695 (PASO)

- 100-9734 (GI Forum)

WHB: mac

(4) No

100-9734-784

SEARCHED....

SERIALIZED.

OCT 1 6 1962

F3I - DALSAS

inst vino

NW 54463 DooId: 32323145 Page 2

---

