# docid-32290820

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-483

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/06/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290820

327

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

•DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 6 1962

TELETYPE

Mr Tolson

Mr

Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Confad

Mr. DeLo

Mr. Evas

Mr. Malei

Vir. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

4-6-52

216-46 PM CST EAH

TO PIRECTOR,

FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC

CHICAGO / 92-373- 2P

ALEX, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C RECENTLY ADVISED. THAT THOMAS MUNIZZO

IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF ALEX AND THAT HE IS THE CONTACT. MAN BETWEEN THE

MAYOR-S OFFICE AND ALEX AND HIS HOODLUM ASSOCIATES FOR ANY FAVORS

IN THEIR BEHALF.

MUNIZZO INTERVIEWED YESTERDAY AND ADVISED THAT HE IS A CLOSE

PERSONAL FRIEND OF CHICAGO-S MAYOR DALEY HAVING BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH

HIM IN POLITICS ALL HIS LIFE.

MUNIZZO SAID HE HAS KNOWN GUS ALEX ÄND ALEX-S FAMILY SINCE ALEX

WAS. A BOY AND THAT WHEN ALEX WAS ABOUBT TWENTY YEARS OLD; HE WORKED

FOR ABOUT SIX MONTHS AS A TRUCK DRIVER FOR HIS FATHER. HE SAID THAT

SINCE THAT TIME HE HAS KNOWN LITTLE CONCERNING ALEX AND HIS ACTIVITIES.

HE SAID THE LAST TIME HE SAW ALEX WAS

ABQUT A YEAR AGO AT THE

WAKE OF JOHN SORTINO, DECEASED BROT

ANK

54A20. 3182-483

MUNIZZO SAID HE IS ALSO ACQUAINTED WITH

MURRAY HUMPHREYS; FRANK

FERRARO, RALPH PIERCE, AND FRANK SKID. CARUSO BUT HAS

SEEN THEM

APR 10 1962

FOR OVER A YEAR.

HE DOES NOT SOCIALIZE WITH ANY

OF THEM AND HAS

NO

END PAGE ONE

58 APR 1 6 1962

DocId: 32290820 Page 2

---

