# docid-32146560

## Page 1

Released under

So tel

DATE 11-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10079-10232

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-109060-4767

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. NY

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/10/1967

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: JG, INVEST, OPINION, SALISBURY, HARRISON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

02/03/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, MEMO

DocId: 32146560

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

Noted.

under

the John

. F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

SECRET

6/27

Clabain

Date

Transmit the following

204.0

Des

GOG Catogory, 2%3

FBI

Date: 3/10/67

ssification Indefinate

(Type In plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL

TO:

3.211

DEGLASSIANON: 25X

(Priority)

JFK

ACL TAFORMATION CONTE NET

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-183386) HEREIN IS UNCLASS

EXCEPT WHERE SHOD FAY

OTHERWISE

bis

Сов?

TAG

Ete talestion

3/14/69

PROM'

SAC, NEW YORK (100-60713)

SUBTECT:

TASS NEWS AGENCY

IS - R

AssAssINatION of

Presilent John E Kennedy

"SERGEI A. IOSEV" #(UL)

Re NY airtel, to New Orleans, 3/10/67, captioned

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and 7

copies of an LHM, dated and captioned as above, containing

_ormation furnished by NY 554-5* on 3/10/67,

a conversation between HARRY FREEMAN,

concernin

SALISEURY, Executive Reporter of the

Now York Times:

rather frequent contact of HARRY FREEMAN.

It is cointed out

thai SALISBURY has

bEen

and found coopéravive.

interviewed by SAS of the FBI In 196!,

ENCLOSURE

ICAT

0.

dom

13/- Bureau (Enols. 8) (RM)

.. - New Orleans (INFO) (Encl, 1) (RM)

4 - Nev

York

(1 - 105-02900) (LOSEV)

(7 - 100-60618) FREEMAN)

(1

-

100-92901 SALISBURY

+2123 3 60+- 506

1062-109060-4766

GBE:htc

(2O)

2/00-

NOT RECORDED

REC 72199 MAN 16 1967

Approved:

Specia

12193 5170 HBB SAL

Classified hy 7893 reGAT,

іc.-

APPROPRI

AND FIELD

ADVISED BY

ES

UTING

AgencY STATE, LOCIal, DSIE

LEHO- 1SD)

Date Forw 3- 13-61

How Forw-

M Fer

00/8385422503

-TO-MAR 341967.

soviet

Janed

SEGRETI

DooId: 32146560

Page 2

850

ORIGINAL FILED

--.

!?!

REC COPY AND DORY

---

## Page 3

"Released

under

the John F.

• Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

SECEIT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE IS UNCLASSIFIED

1

The Attorney Genoral

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWIS

WIT

DeLoach

Wick

Mr

W. C. Sullivan

Mr:

NT.

Branigan

Peterson

March 11, 1997

Director, FBI

TASS NOWS AGENCY

102-1090 6) 19957 HESIGAT

XEDS 23

My lotter dated February

17,

1007,

reported that

Harrison E. Salisbury of "Tho lew Jori: Times" yes in contact

with larry Trocnan, Mounging Editor,. Toes Nous Agckey,

5566

25

›official Soviet Government news-gathcring organiaution a:

ON:

concerning salisbury's proposad trip to

nels

the soviet taiou

12

CLASSIFIED

DECLAS.

A confidentini

source who has furnished reliable

niornation in

tho

March 10, 1967.0

Mast made avallable the

folloving on

Saliabury

Freemen ha had returned fron the?

one wock proviously and that he had arranged with

Alcksondr A. Vichnevely, Assistant Director, Tass

Nors Agoncy,

moscow, Gist, for the use of toes phoco archives.

Frcohan

MAILED 6

NAR 1 4 1967

told Salisbury he was goine to New Orleans for the herrings

COMM-FBI

but he dons not tnise the nattor gerioualy and will not write

anything phony.

Balisbury said it ons his inpression that

the thes couLd not bolete thai Discrick Attorney terrison

Is a publicity hound. Thoy also discussed the receni

cectson of svetlana Stalin, danghter of the former soviet

pronier.

Onlisbury felt hor

concern for her safety vas

inaccurate intanuch as she ind livod in the Door tor 15 years

since Stalin's doath.:

salisbury suggested that he and

Frocana got together then Precmon returns iron Now Orleans

Freenan and Sorgoy A.. LoseV, Acting Correspondent

in Charge, Toss Nors Agcupy, Now Yorls, have rescrvations to

travel to Few Orleons, Louislut, on Barch 13, 1906 1307.

and will

probably return

to. New York,. Her

York, on Mrch 17,

arcomon intorned an individual in Key

oricans that

he and.

G

Tolson

In Loach -

Mohr.

Wick

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Tole,

100en

illivan

Kosey would be in that city during the coming moeis and vege

aCe could be necessary for then to chock with they

100-103836 - 2850

GROUP 1

SECRET:

1 - 100-43594

(Salisbury)

105-122702 OF ATE GENCIES

ECP: bry/est st

FFICES

AND FIEL

ADVISED

479 MAR 20 1967

SIIP(S)

TELETYPE DATE

Exclude

om automatic

downgrad

and"

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO.

10

}

ORIGÍNAL FILED IN

DooId: 32146560

Page 3

---

## Page 4

•Released

under the John F.

Hota).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

Kerinedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

SECRET

Tho Attoincy Coneral

sheriff to be photographed

Ereoman then contacted the

o: lass News Agency End arrangomonts wore made for him and

Losey to appear before

dato not sivon, so they

could be photographed.

They

oro nesigned scats nunbored

11 and 12 1n the courtroon.

District Attorney Jemes

c. Chirison, Now Crlong,

Louisiana, has been conducting an invaligation alleging a

couspiracy in connection with the asaracination of former

president cocn t. Kennedy.

Hearings are scheduled in

New Orloang March 11, 1007, concerning Enrison's arrest of

Clay show in connection with the alleged conspiracyful

This information hos boen furnished to the

sonorible irvin lawn, serica senter to the prestost. l

1 - The Doputy Attornoy Canoral

NOTE:

Classified "Secret" as it discloses sensitive coverage

of foreign establishment, unauthorized disclosure of which would

result in serious damage to the defense interest of U. S.

Source

NY 554-S*

SECRET

DocId: 32146560

Page

---

