# docid-32262642

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

HSCA

180-10108-10211

RECORD SERIES :

NUMBERED FILES.

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 013900

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

LEE, IVAN D., FBI.

DATE: 07/21/1964

PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT.

DALLAS, TX; RACKETEERING AND SUBVERSIVE

ACTIVITIES.

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND, RACKETEERING AND

SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITI

ORGANIZED CRIME.

MATTHEWS, RUSSELL.

DOCUMENT TYPE: OTHER TEXTUAL.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Handwritten note cards. Box 243. (folder 2 of 3)/

v9.1

HH 50529

1

DocId: 32262642

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Jdentifying.innu

-aliases - Pete Leuncindi

-10-6-13_

, henny Patrick, bernie patrice, so, in coney.

SocIaL seE # 345-14-2017

_POB Chicago,519 Cal fornia Aue

AMended Sheppard Gramon ar sendo!

Barr

- ta

1963 residence

1921

2820 west Jarlath, inicago.

74a5 west Belmont, Ghicagu..

sued for divorce in 1966.

didn't get divorced.

a children

Qp.3 - Completed 7th grade education in Chicago public schools & worked as a delvery

man for 15/c0k.

Dp.a -Patrick was recewed at the Indiana Stake Reformatory un.

6-28-33. Sentence 10 years. Imposed on June at by marshalf

Cousty, Indiana, Circut Court , Plymouth, Indiana, on conuction

afrobbeig a bankat culver, Indiana on

may 29, 1933.

p-4- Pat Paroled 3-11-40. Sponsored by E. Szontagh, cnicago. He was to

kue@Davekovininchicago.and towerk.for A.D.Kane Company, Chicago.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 2

---

## Page 3

a Criminal

Oc assocIates

p.16- James Allegretti-according to source, Allegretti is à "syndicate" rep on

the near North side of chicago.

Phal Aldersio - "syndicate" muscleman

-p-17

morces Saletko - righthand man fur Patricks

Richard.m.Block-in 1958-surveillance do closed Pat-united Block's

apti soveral times nignts a weel..

indicted

William E, Block - On 3-23-59-mustued with Atonel, Patrick, & Dave tara

were in Ragen murder

-p.l8 Nathan Blumenthal

-p.19 Hymans. Brocky

marshall caitano

mike Chernoff

p.- a 1

EdwaraD'Aa.u...a.

Ronalde de chastupher.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 3

---

## Page 4

D p. 30

Dave Yaras- Associa hon

Informant aduled pat, has been n constant telephone contact

with Dave Yars from sept. 1957 to may 1959. On marcria,.

1958, chicago informant aduised that Patrick "was very

close" to varas,

"a chicago houdlum uno had great power

in the underworld on the west slde of Chicago, " On 1-18-58,

a differant Chicago nformant aduveu that save Haras and

hounard Patrick "were very closely assocated even though

Varas was residing in miami Beach."

Records of Chicago P.D., Checked on 5-7-58, reflected Yara.

had been arreed.about as times Frem 193810 1947

"mostly for general panciples, disorderty conduct, and

wn.vestigation."'

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 4

---

## Page 5

pza Chicago OC Acturtes

• Dave: Paras and Lenny Patrick controlled the Roosevelt Avenue area

and their headquarters was at rooseuelt and Independence Boulevard.

(adulted by chicago interman+ on 2-as- 58).

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Bookmaking Actlurtes

p. 32

on 2-a6-58 al Chicago informant adulsed he worked fir pat, as an

operator in "a 50-50 book in ,948 and 1949" The book was operated

in a barber shop at 330 west Roosevelt el payment were miade

1 Pat, at the New Lawndale Restaurant in that neighbonod. At

that time, accorcing to the informant, Patrick was in control of the

New Lawndale Rest. and "there was a full scale hard card book

being aperated there," Pat. had the area from kedze to Cicero and

tram madison south to approximately 18th street. No one could

open abook or take on any bets unless he hat the ok of patrick.

At that time Patrick's. lientenants were Karas and Block..

-p. 33- Patrick made an alempt to move into the area ad at Broadway.

Diversesy and Belmont, but according to Co tia wastun by to Rocco

Fischetti, Three of patis "muscles" varti Polsti, "Little Sneeze" Erredman,

and one other were killedin the new haundale Rest. ostensibly for robbing books

but actually, according to informant, because of their association@ Pat.

Informant belleued dispute between Pat, and Fischetti was arbitratedby

Tony Accardo.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 6

---

## Page 7

3

Bookmaking=2

p.33: 0n4-a3-58 records of Chicago Crime Commission in a memo of

8-2a-47 repurt that Part. was the managered a handbook at 16a5 South

redzle Avenue, Also a memo at 11-10-47 report that Pat, was formerly

employed in a handbook operated.at 3613 west Rooseuelt Road and was

_the owner of a tavern, 3166 Ogden Avenue. A Hanaboak was allegedto

-be operated in the back of this tavern. Also, for years poler games

_were operated at 3164 ogden Avenue @ which Patrick was said to be

associated. Also in crime (om, a' Tribune" article of may-6,1952,

conceming murder of sauld Zatz, who was found shot to death in

the trunk of a car

on 5-5-5a. Was reported that zatz operateda

hanabook ana was known as a "syndicate" front for laras a Patrick,

"the gangis representatiues under the rule of marshall Caifano."

Reportedin.crme.comm.memod_s-ao-55 that the handbook"

operated at the Black Angus Restaurant, 7127 North western Avenue, had

as its manager Eugene Luffman who was a "front" for Pat ...

An informant adulsed-during nou. 1955 that Luttmas was a bockmaker

for Pat. & Haras.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Bookmaking-3

-p. 33:

Informant also aduised that another book.place was located at sal Sleisengers

(phonetic) Furniture store an Roosevelt Road near Homan Huenue. Book

belunged te another navidual, but Pat, collects fur this operation.

p. 35- On 4-20-59, martin Schneider adused that Pat, who reportedly had an interest in

the park row Hotel, 4144 west rooseult road, also had a handbook operaning

from one of the rooms of this holel

004-14-59, informant acluised he had learned Pat, had a bookmaking

establishment on the north.side of west loth street.- at the west side Home

Improvement. Compant - 3518 west 16th Street.

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 8

---

## Page 9

-5-

-Caras -1

p.87- Chicago Come Com. report, 4-26-46, Pat, is reported to be managerot a

-gambling

place

at 3613 west Roosevelt Road and as having only a a520

interest in the black jack game in this place..

On 2-26-58 infurmart aduwed that he believed Pat. stll bad gambling going on at

the new Laundate Rataurant. Patrick admited nan interulew on seet, 10, 1948 that

there was a poter game operating at the new Laundale restaurant

taram Dr Chicago PD aduled that as of April 15, 1949, Patrick, William Block,

and Dave taras were operating a "Candan pokerganie" at the Lawndale

Restaurant two nighte a week.

p. 38-comeconm. menu, 6-a2-56, reportec that a gambling joint, at 7018

Northwestern Ave.in the rear of arestaurant, is a Pat.Enterprise & Pat.

supposedly auns the restaurant. Further inu, indicated a commercialpoker

game was held there..

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 9

---

## Page 10

-4-

vocations

p.37= Patrick-interurewedon Sept, 10,1948

, stated he and su brother, Jack.

operatea.+heNew.Laundale Restaurant at 3714 west Rooseuel+

Road stated hed his prother have had a part interent in this

restaurant torouer.twoyears.and they recently bought out

Did boby who had prevously had the remaining intereit e

until recently-had

acted as manager. Previous to his affiliatin

with this restaurand Pat, stated he was employed aid houseman

at the Arcade feestaurant located at kedzie & Rooseuelt Road.

p.45: On June 24, 1957

informant aduled Patrick and Naras purchased

the bath house on

North Avenue and placed william Block in charge

of the place. The establishment was operated as a bath house open

to the public, but had pluss quarters for gambling on the upper

Floors.

-1944= Po- employmentas a bartender -place nut designated

rebla, 1954-employed as asqlesman.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 10

---

## Page 11

->=

miscellaneous Gambling father legal Actsuites

spiy.ko.ck.ing=

p..42-00 12-19-57 informantadused that Pat, had been associated with gambling

activities on the west side and was ongaged in short termusury knowna.

"6 for 5." & Intosmate polve intelligence aduised that Patrick, Jack Pat,.

Dave Yares, william Block, Maish Baer, d Marshall Cartano",

, all af whom were

known a chicago hoodlums connected with gambling," hang out at Park

Row catering company, 4136 W. Roosevelt Road.

p.45. On 217-56 intormand adused that pat had obtained control of all gambling

in the auth ward. - Primarly in the Fillmure Poluce Pistrict.

p. 55- also indicaten patrack involved in prostituren acturtres.

p- 60-61- InvolvedIn a supermarket Snakeduren 1958

p-67,635.

"Hone Improve

war.

74 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 11

---

## Page 12

miscellaneous

-Cuba connections

p. 44

-Records of Chicago Crime comm. amemo of 2-13-53 report "that information

was recerued that lechard Patrick, david Yaras, and Joe massei, the latter

formerly of Detroit, michigan, had been operating the sans souci gambling

establishment m Havana, cuba.".

74 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 12

---

## Page 13

-9-

POlICy

p.46- 0n 312-58 informant aduised that Patrick was offlated

I Albert Frabota. According to the infermant, when Rest the Chicago

mob entered the policy racket, Pat. allegedly parterpated in the kidnapping

as the sones brothers, Negro king pins of the polly racket inthe i9wo's.

p. 47- Chicago crime cam. reflect "Tabune" clip" oF 119-55, concerning the policy

gambling_racket. whch reported that on the west side the "syndicale" had five

representatues in sam cancana, sam Battaglia, marshall caifano, ena two

underlings Leunara Patrick and william Block.

Also a memo ot 10-2-50 réporting that anonymou information was receed

that Patrick, Haras, and Block were in control of lottery jars flooching the 35th

Police DistrICt:.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 13

---

## Page 14

-10-

National sports

p. parrick patrick and taras forced John Cannatta, uno represented a groupot persons who

placelarge.bets.antoutballgamesdotherspats@chicagobockmatersto.lay.o

all of his bets with their office in Chicago. [Decl8, 1958).

p. 49- During Nou, 1955 informant aiduel that Lours Hennick has been taking

baseball bets for Pat. & Dave Karas: under the direct supervision of Jack patrick

for the past fue years.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Ф

- 41-

Singe

-p. 52- chicago Crime cam records refect that in a letler to the police commissioner

dated 3-29-55, Itwas reported that a commercial bingo game wa operated

at 3aya westRooseueltRoadand.was.alleyedly-operated&contralled.byfat.

p-53 004-30-59 informant adursed that

the bingo operation had been going

strang for about tyrs. I is operatec by-lenny & Jack Patrick..

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 15

---

## Page 16

•/2-

Shylocking

p-54- Ö0 12-19-5> informantaduued that Pat. has been abestatest was engaged

m short termusury knounco "6 fors" on Aug 6, 1958. intormant

aduised that about 6 or 7 years ago Harryleune was working in chicago

as a "shylock" and coas associated with Lenny Patrick, Jack Patrick,&

Daue taras. Leune started the Reliable Products novelty busined, as a

front fur the shylocking. About 3 uss ago heune left Chicayo a Reliable

products. wantbankrupt about b munths after he left. About a yrs

ago ruby the mule (possibly Ruby wolfar took over shylocking busi

and Sally, a cabaruer, Informant's opinin they are working for.

Jacka Lenny Patrick a Dave Paral.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 16

---

## Page 17

Ф

-13-

Suspect in Gangland slayings -1

-p.55

"It was repotted to the chicago office.

in 194.6 that Dave Mara

aPat "are repurled to be the 'turpedoes" or the killers fur the

'syndicate: Also repurlean 1946 that

Patrick may have had a.

part in the killing af willle Tarsch and "Zukie the Bookie"

Zuckerman, west Rooseuelt Road gamblers who were killed in

gangland.style several-years. ago by unknoton persuns.

p.56- An articlein the "bricagosun," 8-aa-47 reflécted that Lucius Davidson,

a newsbay testified befure the Grandtury on the James Ragon Sr, murder.

that he saw william Block, a small time gambler, fire from the back

ota truck the shots which struck Ragen on 6-24-46. Dauidson identifiod

a picture of Block as the man who fred, the picture of taras as the

man kneeling with another weapan and a picture of Patrick a the

driver of the truck. Mearticlestates that after the 3 men hadbees

indicted for murder, the other witnesses, changed their testimony and

thecasewardrop.ped...

On April 3, 1947 the indictment against Block, Yaras, & Patrick was quasher

by chief Justice Harold G. ward in the Criminal Court

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 17

---

## Page 18

=14-

suspect_in.Gang.land.slay.ngs=a

-p.56 An article in "Chicago American" newspaper dated 10-18-47.

reflects that White was killed at 35th & Indiana Ave., Chicago, sounatter recanting

hu story that he saw Ragen murdered by Bluck, Yaras, &Patrick.

p.57 - Records of Chicago PD reflect that on 6-24-46 Jamesm. Ragen,

sc. was.shot by.unknown.p.orsons at the corner of 39th & State streets

in Chicago. Ragen was aperatior of the Continental News service, a.

racingnewsorgan@eaticn.in.chicagu. 3.witnesses toshouting..

Thomas connelly, former captain of Chicago PD aduledon 12-4-46 that

Block was reputed to bear member of the purple Gang of Detrout, michigan

asst on marchs, 194) , a true bill naming Patrrck, Block& Yaras was

returnea.bycook.count.G.J.

0.58- In the 1430's Polsky, Cratsh, and zuckie zuckerman were machined gunto death

reportedly.for.rob.bing.handbooks.outitwagenerally-kn.oun_that Patrick

was.sesponrible.duetoafaud@PolskyIh.oct.1942captain.connellyd

hieutenant Drury, suspended patice of fuers, stated that it was alleged

that Patrick, Block, a Maras were responsible for the killing of "Bugsy Seigel"

awestcoartracketeer@reported.connectoninthechicagosy.nd/cate

because of the modus operandi used in the shooting uf seigel.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 18

---

## Page 19

a/s=

suspectinGo.ng/and.slay..n.gs-3

-0.58

On Sept 10,1948, Patrick was interulewed. He said he rendea to at at ya48

west congress street, chicaga. Re- gangland killings of Norton Polsky,.

"Litle sneeze" Friedman and Harry "The Horse" Krotsh,

Pat. stated that, in his opinen, all 3 had been killed cos,

he heard, they were engaged in rubbereaf handbooks. &

gambling-honer. He cunsidered bimelf a "close personal

Friend" of othere individuals.

p-54- Darly News" article dated 1-5-53 concening slaying of mitten

Glickmanwhose.body.wastouncian 1-14-53 stated RD were

seekiny Pat. for questing concerning the slaving.

on 11/1955

_ informant adused that Pat. & Paral were hired

gunmen & killers for Chicago underwork.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 19

---

## Page 20

+16=

Legitimate Enterprises.s

p:60= According to nformant (11-21-58) Patrick held an interest in the

Big Bear Supermarket, 3854 W. Rouseuelt Road.

Howeuer, investigaten did not dusclose aninterest pp. 6.3-605

pl-truingquiman. tes.of Iu sales Company aqued that Pat area

stook holder in the co. a is abu employedthere. During Aug. 195)

Pat, asked him furajob a war hired. Kaufman described Patrick's

positus as performing a "watch service" in which Patrick's dentity

1s.anonym.uusothathecan.check on.em.ployees in a 20

branchsturesinchicago@uanity.Pat.waisalariedat@150/ck

and used his own car"" Pat, calls in his reports by phone

p.76

Douglas Park Hotel On 7-17-58 hours Hennickaduned that he owned

the

18:

_together@Harrasturner.

Jack Patrck was

manager of the hotel & benard patrick was employed as night manager.

Hennick war.euasiue when arked fur into concerning Patis employment.

aP. 28. On 7-12.60, Informantaduledthat pat & Tack cuntinuedto be connected@

the Hotel, Hotel stll fronted by Lours Hennick..

a...

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 20

---

## Page 21

- 17-

Legitimate Enterprises

p.78- Informant acursed en 3-19-57 that Pait. & Yaras had baught a Russias

bath.at worthlAue.aDaman st.

-0.80 - Reliable Products- On July 10,1958 recurd relllect that

: Reliable Products

company was Aisled to Jack Pat. a -t

-1-25-55.

_(3328

Roosevelt Road).

company started on

7-1-5 a by Harry Levine.

p-83 un Augas, 1959 informant acured that he had beard fat had an unterest

in severa, North side restaurants, one of which was the Black Angus Rest.

p.84 On 3-12-58, informant aduised that Pat. & Taras pad an interest in the

Susco Leasing company at mami Boach & that Lenny tara (Dave'ssun)

_operated the co.

Really the scesco Car Rental Susten Miami police

SaIa Karats son, eurald, operated, the co. & Never heard uf Lenny Patrick..

henny Pati was employec by Clus Specialty, Inc. As a sajariecree lance

salesman au fing 1950, for about about salt plaste specially items to the

advertising field.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 21

---

## Page 22

Assoclate(@ummon) @euby

p.100 •

- On Feb al, 1958 repared that a meeting was held at

the trademinas pest.in. Chicagu. Ind Pat wal Presen. So was

Irwin_werner-Purposeat meeting.not known.

@ p. 49- on march 11, 1965 informant acuwed ene wk ago Patrict,

Cobre Frabarta, a Phil Alderisa, met O a bundsman, "Struck"

working fur Irv warner.

No reasen for meeting anuan.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 22

---

## Page 23

-19

Bookmaking

pia- " Informant adursed un 3-5-64 that Lou-Henneck operater out

of the op Hat Innd runs alluf the book" fur Patrick.

Reported intou +96-3-7447-

@ p. 2- Patrick was a partneros Rocco Potenza in bookmaking on the

northside of Chicagu.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 23

---

## Page 24

-20=

Businesses

pi.a- "Intormant aduised an 3-5-64 that Hy "Red" Larner who wasformerly

a lieutenant for Eddie vogel al ii nuw a lieutenant fur GusAlex ours

venocoa music company d a partner is Pat.

o.4- max Netler runs the gambling sard roum at 948 Eastwoud fur Pat

Reportea.on y2Y-64 that Pat & Hty Larner were aHemoting to purchare

the citymusic com.pan.y..

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 24

---

## Page 25

=21-

connectun@palla.cominats.

Informantadvised that Dave Yares brother formerly was

a boss of the caminal organization in Dallas, Texas.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 25

---

## Page 26

-21=

Yarasownsan_interestinA.IndustrialUnitorm.company.

• Patrickis a patner of Rucco Polenzu, t 1n 000

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 26

---

## Page 27

meenngs@Oc.in.san.Francisco

p.3 Informant aduised in nou 1963 that in sept, 1963 there was a

meeting at the mark Hopkins Hotel in san Frandso and present were

Dave taras, his sun Runald, leungra Patrick, Lous Tom Dragna, &

Nicolo Licata. Dragnas a La cosa Nostra member & Licata is an

underbors of the cosa nostrain the l.A. area. Seueral weeks later

the same group met agan el present was Ernest Debs, a 1.A. county

supervisur who is a close friend of calit. Gow. Pat Brown & allegedly

a pay off man for big-people

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 27

---

## Page 28

28=

enone calls

pila "In August & Sept. 1963 Telephone calls were made frum nesidence

of Pat. to SHa-1341 - Cunsumers company, Drussenof Volcan Materials,-

Elgin, Illinois # 726-2491, Joliet, Ill - Joliet P. D.

& 726-2491 Royal Oak, mich. - Samuel Schumer.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 28

---

## Page 29

Actuities

_Oc-connections = 1963

pa Informant aduled on Aug a, 1963 "that he has learned that

henard patack has been moving well towards the top of the

Chicago arminal organizaton and might be a replacement fur

Gus Alex, who cppears ta be working for power becaue of the

cuntucts he has made without adulsing other members of

the organization."

-24-

9

p.d-Informant adused on 326-63 that on 3-3-63, Lenny Pas Tack Pat, Ity.

Godfrey, Fifke Corngold, and Joe Aiuppa were present at the huxur

Baths, ,worth Avenue & Damen

Street, Further aduded that this

establishments wed.in_frequento.cauins as a meeting place

fur known Chicago syndica

e members..

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 29

---

## Page 30

25-1

1963 Actruntes

p.7- 00 April 2, 1963 Chicago PD raiced

New-Lawnaale rest. The wire room

was reportedly under control of pat.

Following people arrested: Roy Love, Eugene Lufman, Burt Arias,

Joseph Libby, Sam Kohen, Sam Nudell, George Weinberg,

Bernard etinban, max Weinzer, max menus, Frank S. FLo,

Tacon s. Keer, sam Lieberman. 3 telephones wed - KE3-0714,

NE 8-9883, NE8-2628.

pila Informant adused on 3-20-63 that Lennie Patrick is no lunger

in contrel of the Elmore District of Chicago

Informant adused on 5-10-63 that be had recently learned

that the Four Duces Lounge, dand Weit Devon Avenue,

is Lennie Patrick's "place."

D.p.6-0n.Feba), Feba), OC divisten, Chicago.PD adused he had received into that

a horse ruom continues to uperate at new landare restaurant. It is

rumoreaPat. runs theloperation but never been able to prove a connection

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page

30

---

## Page 31

12 p.p

Jllegal Actourtes- 1970

6

occonnectz.cns

Patrick.describedascontrolling gambling

en Douglad Pack District & narthside of

Chicago untl late 1920, when his book-

making-osecatenswere.clored.cown

beca.u...cof

new rederal gambling legislater.

[p. 32)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 31

---

## Page 32

la-p.6

Bookmaking

27

=.

Informant advised on 4-2-ba thatone

Rest. Source adulted thi aperation

13 controlled tor 0.c. by Lennie Patrick

an a pave yaros...

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 32

---

## Page 33

Alderman Benjamin howis slaying

-"On April, 19604 informant acursed Pat.

8 Yaras control the waran which

newis was slain. Lewis betre slaying,

was.not.cooperating@cr.m.n.al

element.nchIcagu..

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 33

---

## Page 34

p. 39

1963 Illegal Act

oct 30,31, 1963

Informant statea the 3 chiet

JuIce man in chiago area are

Fiore Buccieri, Jimmy Allegsethi and

Leanie Patrick.

..-...

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 34

---

## Page 35

p.48

O.ct_14,1963

Informant adusec that Ralph Detente,

mike Delente, and John Reda had.

been.doing work fur Patrickand

Willie Dadd and as killers furthe

"outfnt."

•=-------------

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 35

---

## Page 36

Bookmaking

mar Nettler has been alleged to 000k

national sports and operates a card room

at 948 Eastwood Avenue, Chicago, which

operation is alleged to be under the control

af chicago hoodlum, benny patrict.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 36

---

## Page 37

p.9

oc-connesociate siancana

Dec 22, 1961- informant aduised patrick

was in contact with sam Grancana

on 12/a1/61. Patrick related to Grancana

That he is to receive $10,000 from sume

unnamed ventue, and he was

bemoaning the fact that he should

be getting $30,000

for the venture.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 37

---

## Page 38

Oc connections

on 1-18-60 informant aduled Patrick

spoke

• brielly on this date @Franks

Ferrare, Murray Humphreys, buth chicago

top hoodlums and t Godfrey at Celane's.

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 38

---

## Page 39

@p6

Residences

On1a-20-57 informant's recunds reflect

a charge af address fir Pat. on 1a-28-54

from 1248 Cungress nu 2800 w. Jarlath

st. Chicago.

p.8

1579

1942-

4144 West lath Street

1942-1946 - 3302 Douglas Boulevard.

1948-1954- 4248 West Congress

1954=

4036 West Glad ys Aue

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 39

---

## Page 40

@ p. 11'

Criminal recura- 930's

On Feb a2, 1934, Patrick was received

at Indiana stale Penitentary..

Invertigated for murder 2/a6/846

Noleprossed on 4/3/47.

Co-deferdent's in sank robbery (1933) were

Jack Paltick, Edward murphy, Town Gray,

and Juhn Daussis,

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 40

---

## Page 41

connecten @ euby

stated in oc =

-Ruby@ paturbrought

up togetbern Chicago askies: but I

hauen't seen sim for year"

0c-4/14/28 00720/8.1

port

"Ruby was a nice guy with kids, He

warntconnected.with._anybod.y.z.nca

inyears but he was not a 'wise guy; if you know

whats mean." It g.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Paye 41

---

## Page 42

Oriminal recurd (1970's)

Patricle is presently serving a

Yyr sentence fur contempt ofcourt

at FCI, Leningten, Kentucky. Served 18

munths....

oc contact @Patrick 7a01

4/14/78

f.--

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 42

---

## Page 43

1963 CHRONOLOGY - LEONARDPATRICK

PREEP

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 43

---

## Page 44

Esptay ment

Jan 1, 1963

leonara Patrick emploded by

Herman sales company as a premium

salesmancontactingvarous-burness

housesin.the chicagoarethat-gove

various types at premums. (FBI Report,

Chicago, 1/17/63, File no. 92-3189-48, p.2)

HIH

50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 44

---

## Page 45

January 3In Informant adused PArticl

continues to control gambling and

"juice" aperatiuns in the haundale.

-district of chicago.

(FBI Report, Chicago, 718/2L, File no.

92-3189-83, p. 3}

A."-

-=..

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 45

---

## Page 46

Feb 18, 1963

Inturmantstated he nad learned

from an associate that Patrick is

presently.connected with.A.

Industrial uniterm company.

Varas is regarded as Patrick's bos.

(FBI Report, Chicago, 7/8/21, File no.

92-3189-83, p. 58)

--.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 46

---

## Page 47

February 22,19.63

-Chicago P.D. aduised they had recened

information that a horse roam continues.

to aperate at New Lawndale Restaurant.

It is rumored that Patrick runs the

operation (PBI Report, Chicago, 3/19/63,

File. no. 92-3189-49, p. b).

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 47

---

## Page 48

march 3, 19.6.3

ECI informant adursed Lenny Patrick,

Jack Patrick, dy Godtrey, Fitke Corngold, -

and Jue Aiuppa were present at the

Luxor Baths in Chicago. [FBI Repart,

Chicago, 5/28/63, File no. 92-3189=50, p.

A.r.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 48

---

## Page 49

a November 7, 1963

FeT Sourse aduised en that Rocky Potenza.

and Patrick contral the "north side book".

in chicago, (PBI Report, Chicago, 7/8/71,

File no. 92- 3189-83 p?)

•=.

H# 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 49

---

## Page 50

march 20, 1963

its Informant aquised that beany Patrick

is no longer in control of the Filmore

Distrat of Chicago (FBI Report, Chicago,

5/28/63, File no. 92-3189-50, p. 12)

wow...e

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 50

---

## Page 51

April 2, 1963

Chicago police raided the New.

Laundale Restaurant which was

reportedly under thecontrol.of Lenny Patrick.

(FBI Report, Chicago,

5/28/63, File no.

9.2-3189-50; p. 7

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 51

---

## Page 52

may 10, 19.63

FBI informant, adursed that he

back recently lanned that the four

Duces Lounge, 2222 west Devan Avenue,

Chicago, is Lenny Patrick's "

place.

(FBI Repart, Chicago, 5/28/63, File no.

92-3189-50 p. 12)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 52

---

## Page 53

summer or fall of 19-63

Ruby contacted Leony Patrick

, p. 460;

Page 445g; wc Testimony of Hyman

Rubenstein, 645/64-U8115, p. 28)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 53

---

## Page 54

7 p.67

June 3,1963

Hy Godtrey, Fifke Cornguld, bennie Patrick,

JackPatrick, El Jue Aruppabsernach

at Luxur Bath. [FBI Report, chicagu,

7/8/21, File no. 92-3189-83, p. 67)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 54

---

## Page 55

August 9, 19.6.3

An FBI informant aduised "that he had.

learned that Leunerd Patrick has been moving.

well towards the top of the chicago criminal

organization and might be a replacement tor

Gus Alexpothe appears to be wacking ter

passer (FBI Report, Chicago, 9/24/63, File no,

92 - 3189-52, p. 2)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 55

---

## Page 56

August and September, 19.63

"Telephine calls were made from tere

Patrick's residence to sHa-1341-Cunsumers.

company, Divisin ef Volcan materials,

Ergin, Illinois and 726-2491 Jaliet, Il

(Joliet P.D) and 226-ay91 (samuel

Schumer) Royal Oak, michigan.

(EBIreport, 3/18/64, File no. 92-3189-54,

p.. 1a

HH 50529 DocId: 32262642

Page 56

---

## Page 57

September 20, 1963

"max.. Nettler has been alleged to

book national sparts and aperates

acard.coom.at 948 Eastwood

Avenue, Chicago, which-operation

13 alleged to under the contrel of

Lenny Patack, {EsI Report, Chicago,

9/20163, File 00. 165-969=6

1.=-

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 57

---

## Page 58

_September.an, 19.63

:: In a StriChicago Sun-Times Clipping

of this date lenny patrice was listed

by the police as a "hit" man fur the

-syndicate.@chicago.crimecummission

memorandum, JFK.Document no

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page

58

---

## Page 59

Sept 24, 1963

In a"Sun-Times clip of this date it was

reported

Lenny patrick was

listed by the

police as a "hit" man for the syndicate.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 59

---

## Page 60

September, 1963

informant aduised there was a meeting

at the mark Hopkins HoteL in san Francisco

eed at which Dave Yaras, his son Ronzld,

henara Patrick, Louis Tom Dragna, and

Nicola bicata were present. Several weeks

laterthe_same.group-net-again.and.present

to Ernest Debs, a hiA. County superuiser,

was also present. (PBI Report, Chicago,

3/18/64, a Fit. no. 92=3189-54, p.3.

----=-

HH 50529 DocId: 32262642

Page 60

---

## Page 61

October 30_8_31, 19.63

""fes informant aduised that the three

chet "jule" men in the chicago area

are Fiore Buccieri, James Allegrettis and

Lecmard PatrIck.

(p. 39)

ren.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page

61

---

## Page 62

October 14, 1963

EBI informant stated that

Ralph Detente, Mike-Detente, and John.

Reda had been doing work fur fatrick

and willie paddano. source said they.

were. "Killers fur the 'outfu!" (FBIreport,

July 8,1921, "Lenard Patrick, aka,"

_p.948

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 62

---

## Page 63

1963 Chronology - B.D. MaHhews

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 63

---

## Page 64

January 2, 19.63

vetectiven.L. Mart, Pallas police Dept.

adused he bad information that souerai

gamblers.including_R.D.matthews,

were-spendingconsiderable_-time.atthe

Lem..Used_carLot at Live Oak and

Hall Streets in Dallas (FBI Reper Airtel,

Psom Dallas, 1/2/63, File. no. 62-9-12-390)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 64

---

## Page 65

-February 21-24,1963

matthous carobserued.at some

cock fights near Biloxi, mississippi.

(EBI Memurandum, Dallas, 418/63, File ne.

166-636-1, p. 1)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 65

---

## Page 66

Mid-march 1963

Dallas PCI stated matheus had was in

Hot Springs, Arkansas. (FBI memorandum,

Dallas, 4/8/63, File no. 166-6367, p. 1

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 66

---

## Page 67

march 15, 1963

Information. bet recervedby FBI that

a-person_fitting the description.af R.D. martheus

wE hadbeenin Hot Springs Arkansas and

in contact with George Euque. (F B I

memorandums

Dallas, 1/8/63, File no.

166-636-1, p.1

....... an...a.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 67

---

## Page 68

march 16, 19-6-3

miss Peggy matthews and RD matthews

rented Apt # a10 at Paragon Apts,

4218 Reiger Street.

(FBI Report, Dallas, 1427/63, File no.

166- 636-5, p.2

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 68

---

## Page 69

April 3, 1963

Dallas RCI stated mattheus had

just left Dallas enroute to

Hot springs,Arkansas, ura

Oklahoma City. (FBI memurznaum,

Dallas, 4/8/63, File no. 166-636-1,p.l)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 69

---

## Page 70

Aprel 3, 1963

Geurge Fredenck-Rechenberg was.

ineruiewed.b.y the FB.I and

furnished pertinent information

concerning matthews which was used

as a basis for opening a new ITAR -

Gambling-case_concerning matthews.

(PRI Report, Dallas, 1/9/63, File no.

69-9-12 - 411-p?

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 70

---

## Page 71

April 7,1963

FBI informant stated that matthers

had returned to dallas and residing with.

his daughter, peggy Ana mattheus..

(FBI Report, Dallas, 7/18/63, File no.

166-636-2,p8 Cover page D).

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 71

---

## Page 72

may 3, 196.3

Dallas Criminal Intelligence, Dallas PD,

adu-sed that information had_been developed

that matthews had recently contacted

George Box, shreveport, Louisiana, concerning

a possible

"twarday score" He had also

contacted Jim Blackwell of Laurel, mississippi.

(FBI Report, Dallas, 1/18163, File no.

16.6-636-2, Couer Page D)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 72

---

## Page 73

may 12, 19.63

57 Dallas pus. arrested RD. Matthews

and charged with county vagrancy.and

withnuestigaton_of.book making.

(FBI Report, 9 Dallas, 9/13/63, Pile no.

62-9-12.448, p 4)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 73

---

## Page 74

may al, 1963

Police Intelligence adulsed the

matthews-was presently.working.at

the Redman Club in Dallas. (FBI Report,

Dallas, 7/18/63, File no. 166-636-2, p.5)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 74

---

## Page 75

may. 31, 1963

Police Intelligence adunea that

they had received information that Hot springs.

Arkansas gamblers, Jack Gunter and

Hubert Dane Harris were in dallas on

5/30/63, and were ungently attempting to

coates, the et, F 00. 1ó6=636=),

cover Page E).

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 75

---

## Page 76

Fune 24,196X

Report 92-4587-8 Dallas 7/21/64

by Ivas D. Lee

Includes R. D's Phone call fram

April 29, 1964-mayao, 1964.

@Repoc+-92-4587-7-5/20/64 Dallas by

Ivan Lee- Phone calls from 1/5.164,

to 4/5/64.

3 Repurt, Dallas, 7118/63, File no 165636-2,

TOILCaULS - for Peggy Ann-

trom 12/as/ 63_to

2/23/63.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 76

---

## Page 77

_July-0, 19.63

matthews"

1962 Oldsmobile was

obserued parked near the apt.

house located at 4817 Reiger Street,

Dallas,

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 77

---

## Page 78

July 18, 196.3

FBI report of this date states

matthews was in contact with sammy

Paxtun (Salvatore Amarena).

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 78

---

## Page 79

september 9, 19.63

FBI repart of this date states that

nuestigation has ascertained that the

Redman club is used by its members and proprietors

for gambling actuities. The manager is R.D!

matthews. (FET Report, 9/9/63, File no. 62-9-12-44.))

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 79

---

## Page 80

September 13,1963

ReBaBa In an FBI report of

this date, mannews is included among.

those considered to be the higher

echelon in Dallas book making.

(FBT-Report, 9/13/63, "Crime conditions

in the Dallas Division, pa)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 80

---

## Page 81

September 2o, 19.6.3

matthews continues to be employed.

at the Redmas Club in Dallas.(FBI

Report, Dallas, 9/20/63, File no. 166-636-3,

p. 1)

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 81

---

## Page 82

Octabor 3, 1963

13 minute

Ea Ruby made altelephone call

to

Elizabeth_Ann_matthews, PaRD. matthew's

former wite &

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 82

---

## Page 83

Аротох.

I October a6,1963

B.D..matthews and daughter moved

from

4713 Reiger Street tu

2207 Greenbrier Street, Irving, Texas.

(F8I Report, Dallas, 11/27/63, File no

16.6 - 636-5, p.277

AH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 83

---

## Page 84

November 6, 1963

Dallas Police aduised that matthews

is driving a 1964 white auer blue

_oblsmobile bearing 1963 Teras license

RA6568. (FBIReport, Dallas, 11/27/63,

File no 166-636-5, p.2

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 84

---

## Page 85

November 22,196.3

FBI report of this date lists.

matthews addsess as 2207 Green briar St.,

Irving, Texas, and states he was thought

todepartowner of the Redman.c/up.

HH 50529

DocId: 32262642

Page 85

---

