# docid-32287825

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10198-10101

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-1876

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GALE, J. H.

TO: DELOACH

TITLE :

DATE :

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/15/1966

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

1B; 4

Redact

03/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32287825 Page 1

154

---

## Page 2

OPTIGNAL FORM NO: 10

3010-106

#AT 1962 EDITION

NO. 27 "

UNITED STATES GON-ANMENT

Memorandum

TO

: Mr. DeLoach

DATE: August 15, 1966

FROM : J. H. Gale

Casper

Callahat

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rose

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

The Chicago Office has learned from a potential

criminal informant,

that Patmore was visited

at his home on the evening of August 10, 1966, by Giancana

Ill,

they solicited his assistance

in killing another unidentified Chicago hoodlum, who was

then reportedly in New York.

assignment, which

time

in the future. (was to take place at an unspecified

ESA

3:

On the night of August 11, 1966,

met

with

Buccierf and another unknown individual introduced as Tony

"The Bull," At that meeting, L

Ill,

_was told by Buccieri

that Tony, "The Bull" would accompany him to New York for

the?killing, which was to take place within two weeks, and

for which:

would be paid $2, 600. (U)

f=?

=:

On the morning of August 15, 1966, SAC Marlin

Johnson of Chicago called to advise that I

Fhad again

been contacted by Buccieri and Tony "The Bull" on the night

of August 1, 1966, at which time they told him the persor

to be killed was Butch, Blasi, a notorious Chicago hoodlun

zEll

jand heretofore a

"close associate of Giancana. According

to the informant, Blasi has been stealing funds from the

Chicago organization while Giancana was in jail and,

therefore, his execution has been ordered.

At the same

time, the

informat was told that the killing of Blasi is

I to take place tonight in Chicago. (U,

Dissemination of the foregoing through ordinary

channels would in all probability expose the informant

with the result that he would undoubtedly become the victim

EX-102

03 E339136

1

- Mr. DeLoach

- Mr. Gale

92 - 3171-1876

PUnE 12 1I D93.P

1

16 AUG 16 108NTINUED - OVER

Fine: Traitt

McA:tjm

155 7 AUG 241966

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSINIED

DATE 424/84

LNS16R4S BI

SP8 mAC/KSR (JFK)

NW 45792 DocId: 32287825

Page 2

OTHER

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: Samuel M. Giancana

of a gangland slaying. Nevertheless, we have a responsi-

bility to alert local authorities to an impending gangland

murder. (V)

The informant, _

so as to

avoid any involvement in this slaying. An illness on the

part of the informant could delay the plans to kill Blasi,

but would not eliminate him entirely from any future

planned slaying of Blasi.

Accordingly, it is believed that

parole board called him in and questioned him

concerning his activities and associates with the idea of

revocation of parole, if necessary, that his involvement

in this matter would

be voluntarily terminated by Giancana

and Buccieri. (V)

SAC Johnson believes that he can disseminate

this information concerning the planned murder to State's IllI

Attorney Darpitard on a confidential basis, thus accomplishing T

notification to authorities and at the same time arranging

for parole board action against

which should serve

to eliminate him from involvement in this planned killing.(U)

ACTION:

SAC Marlin Johnson is being instructed to furnish

the foregoing to the State's Attorney Dan Ward, Cook County,

on a confidential basis and arrange, if possible, for |

to be called in by his parole board with the idea of

revocation of parole today.

the informant, is

presently on parole on local bad check charges.

previously been involved in a killing while incarcerated

in Tennessee. (U)

OTHER

- 2 -

NW 45792 DocId: 32287825 Page 3

---

