# docid-32298095

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10220-10371

HQ

105-114543-50

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

OBRIEN, FRANCIS J.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/31/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

JURE, ASSOC, PROPERTY, MRRI, TRA, BUSS, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107

Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32298095

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1.==1-59)

FEDERA BUREAU OF IN_STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE. OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN JUAN

DATE

12/31/63

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/6-13/63

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

dtz

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(CUBAN REVOLULIONARY JUNTA

(JURE)

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

IS - CUBA

RELEASE OF CIA INFORIMIATION

RA - CUBA IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

ALL INt

ONTAINED

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

618-97

REFERENCE

DA 14-4613p8 mAC/KSR ADO. DISSEMINATION.

SI report of SA Job SPURRS, #E: 41126163624).

-

Seerate pas

UHiN

File Where Located

105-42570-47

ON

6/81/89

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NICHOLAS NUCITO

Clerk, United States

Post Office Inspector's Office

NYC

TOR CONTAINED

MIR GUS 20S1F20

THERE SHOWN

11162

(Deemed advisable) Crisi

Ireles

vitn fist

Lany Not

San Junial go, fieshind by

tali care.

KSPECHAAGENT

IN CHARGE

OPE MAD - Bureau (105-114543) (RM

-

Atlanta

Info) (RM

Boston

1

1 -

Dallas (105-1625) (Into) (RU)

Los Angeles

' (Info) (RM)

Miami (105-6661)

1

- Tampa (105-1843)

(hfo (RM.

- Washington

Field (105-52281) (Ing, (RM)

1 - New York (105-42570)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

‹Notations

Copy to: CIA/State/89

Diu Diet

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105-114543-5 CREC19

-

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

by routing sip for info

Date

Sitin ti don

4/e-1363

free geras

Gise ty 2285 Bastel

Declazsity on:

DADR

X

NW 54464 DooId: 32298095

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 105-42570

CONFISENTIAL

105-42570-48

-49

-51

-52

Instant report, pgs. 5-8,

NY T-3

ZACHARY DE GASTER

10 E. 40th St., NYC.

(By request)

LEADS:

ATLANTA, DALLAS, LOS ANGELES, MIAMI, TAMPA,

AND WASHINGTON FIELD.

Information coptes of. this

report are being furnished to these offices since they

have been requested to conduct Investigation in this

matter.(U)

BOSTON

Will identify ROBIN

number 617 EM 9-4533. (4)

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK,

NEW YORK. 1. Will maintain contact

with ZACHARY DE GASTER for developments in this matter.(u)

Wi1l contact ISMAEL RODRIGUEZ, 84-19 51st Ave.,

Elmhurst,

Queens, for information concerning activities of

JURE. (2)

W1ll Interview RAUL CHIBAS, 41-40 Denman St.,

E Imhurst,

Li for information concerning activities of JURE.(4)

COVER PAGE

-

CONXIENTIAE

HIH

54464 DooId: 32298095 Page 3

---

## Page 4

D-204 iRev. 3-3-59)

UNAD STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

COMDRENTIAL

Report of:

Date:

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIO

IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM

6-189,7

Office: New York, New York

Field Office File #:

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

12/31/63

105-42570

Bureau File #: 105-114543

die tessio

Title:

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA)

(JURE)

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

DECLASSIFIED B

ON 6/21/85

106 BJA/GCL

Synopsis:

NY T-1 advised that JUNTA REVOLUCION-

ARIA CUBANA (JURE) rents POB #2668, Grand Central

Station, NYC and that RAUL CHIBAS was identified

as President of JURE in NYC. NY T-2 advised

that an American, RICHARD STEWARD COULSON (ph)

volunteered to assist JURE and that he represented

an individual who owns an estate in Jamaica and

who is willing to make this available to JURE.

NY T-2 stated that leaders of JURE were in Caracas,

Venezuela, 11/23-24/63, and prepared a public

statement in support of Venezuelan Government of

ROMULO BETANCOURT. NY T-2 advised that dissension

exists withih JURE in NYC because many JURE members

feel that RAUL CHIBAS is too passive and slow. (l)

NY T-3 advised that MANUEL RAY RIVERO was in NYC

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

on 12/6/63 and RAY Informed him that JURE was

61225 minutenre de can tramediately obtaining 500 - 7,000

NY I-3 stated that he spoke with

(JFK)

ROBIN MOORE of Concord, Mass., and leamed that MOORE

owned property in Jamaica near Port Antonio and had

offered the use of this property to JUrE. NY 1-3

advised that ROBIN MOORE Impressed him as being

the typical son of a wealthy man, immature and in

search of adventure.

ATION CONTAINED

-P-

HEREIN

UNCIASSIFIED

WHERE SHOWN

2.7-84

Classified

Dectassify

on:

CASTRASL

OADR

OTHER

C0

ENTIAL

105-114543-505

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NH 54164- DoCTa?32298095 Page g

---

## Page 5

NY 105-42570

TONNA

CNSANZATION

DETAILS:

NY T-1 on Detober 2l, 1963, advised that the

JUNTA REVOLUCICNARIA: CUBANA (CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA)

(JURE) had rented a Fost Office Box at Grand Central Station.

This Post Office Box rented by the JURE is number 2668

and is contained on the stationery of the JURE, New York City.

NY I-l advised that Post Office Box number

2668 was rented by RAULXCHIBAS who was identified as the

President of JURE, MARIE TATAQUECHEO: 117 West 5oth Street

New YORK and A ANTON DE LA CARRERA, tho was

Identified as a member of JURE. U

NY T-2 on October 15, 1963, advised that represen-

tatives of JURE in New York City had been contacted by

several individuals who wanted to assist JURE either

financially or in other ways in its fight against the present

regime of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO of Cuba.

stated that one of the individuals who had contacted JuRe

in New York was one JOSEX&AMACHO who is employed by a Wall

Street firm in New York City.

unable to furnish any additional information concerning the

identity

of CAMACHO except that CAMACHO had been in contact

with ANTONIO DE LA CARRERA Who was identifled by

•NY T-2

as being a member of Jure in New Yorkcity.

ul

venezuela

CubA

also volunteered to assist JURE.

NY T-a advised that it was his

understanding that COULSON was the representative of an

Individual who had a fince (estate) In Jamaica mich he pou

willing to make available to members of JUre for military

training purposes. (ul

NY I-Z, on October 31, 1963, advised that JULIO

CESARTALONSO, one of the members of JURE, was now Piving In the (4)

347N.E, 36* STREET, MIAMi, FIA,

2

NW 54464 DooId: 32298095

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEMBER

. OF

SUBJECI

UNGAITY

ATION

NY 105-42570

CONFMENTIAL

JUnited States and was making his residence with BOGELLO

CISNEROSADIAZ,

347 N.E. 36th Street Miami Florida

NY.T-2

advised that CISNEROS Is the representative of JURE in Miami,

Florida. u

NY I-2 further advised on October 31, 1953, that

members of JURE were looking for a small radar unit which

was

capable of being mounted on a boat, the size of a fishing

boat.

NY I-2 stated that he was

Informed that JURE had

alloted $3,000 for the purchase of this radar unit..ul

NY I-2, on November 21, 1963, advised that the leaders

of the JURE were holding a meeting in

Caracas, Venezuela, on

the weekend of November 23-24, 1963.

The purpose of the meet-

ing in Caracas was to draw up a declaration which would be pre-

sented in

Caracas wheraby the Jure would publicly announce

their support of the government of President ROMULU BETANCOURT. 4)

NY T-2 also stated on November 21, 1963,

that he had

been given this information about the meeting in Caracas

by RAUL CHIBAS, who is the leading military tigure inJuRE.

NY I-2 stated that CHIBAS informed him that he was Leaving

on November 21, 1963, for Caracas, Venezuela, and CHIBAS

also stated that others attending this meeting would

JOSENSAN MARTIN, MANUEL RAVARIVER Of San Juan, Luerto co

nd JOSE GOMEZY RODRIGUEZ and ROGELIO CISNEROS of Miami,

NY I-2 advised on December 3, 1963, that the follow-

ing individuals are leaders in JURE In New York City: U

ANCER FIGUEREDO

89-20. 55th Avenue

Elnhurst, Long Island i

Telephone number HI 6-2537

(Treasurer)

SERGIO GONZALEZ.

I41-30 Pershing Crescent

Apartment 6E.-

Long Island da

MEMBER OF SUBROTO

Jamaicamber AX 7-3506

Telephone

(Organizer)

ORCANZAMION

CONTIXENTIAL

3

NW 54464 DooId: 32298095

Page 6

---

## Page 7

ONFSENTIAL

NY 105-42570

RIveRo

NY 1-3,

on December 6, 1963, advised that he had

spoken that

day with ANTONIO DE LA

CARRERA and ascertained

that MANiaY was in new ork at that time.

DE LA CARRERA

informed NY T-3 that RAY would leave for Los Angeles on the

members in that city and would then return on December 8, 1963,

to San Juan, Puerto Rico. U

NY T-3 advised that DE LA CARRERA Informed him

that RAY was expected to return to New York in about two weeks.

NY T-3 aaid that DE LA CARRERA informed him that the JURE was

collecting about $600 per month in order to pay travel

expenses for MANOLO RAY but this would not cover all his

expenses.

DE LA CARRERA told NY T-2 that RAY has more time

now to devote to activities of JURE as he is not working

regularly at his job in Puerto Rico. DE LA CARRERA also

stated that the JURE is receiving money from Venezuela and

Costa Rica but would not indicate whether or not this was

coming directly from govemment sources. (K)U)

NY I-3 advised that DE LA CARRERA informed him that

MANOLO RAY was very interested at the present time in obtain-

ing arms and explosives but that the obtaining of explosives

was of top priority for JURE at the present time. NY T-3

advised that he told DE LA CARRERA

of obtaining a

, an anti-

guerrilla gun.

DE LA CARRERA showed great interest in these

weapons but reiterated his statement that the leaders of JURE

were very interested, at the present time, in obtaining plastic

explosives. A

NY I-3, on December 6, 1963, advised that he spoke

telephonically with MANOLO RAY

at which time he told RaY

that he had the possibility of obtaining explosives. NY T-3

advised that RAY informed him that he was extremely interested

at the present time in obtaining 500 to 1, 000 pounds of

C-4 and this item was of top priority and that the funds were

available to purchase this material immediately. RAY told (a)

- 5

CONF

KENTIAL

HH

54464 DooId:32298095 Page 7

---

## Page 8

NY 105-42570

CONFAERTIAL

NY T-3 that in regard to the possibility of obtaining guns

for JURE he, NY T-3, should discuss this matter with RAUL CHIBAS,

who is in charge of military matters.

NY I-3 en December 11, 1963,

advised that he met: with

ANTONIO DE LA

CARRERA who informed him that he had met an American by the

name of ROBIN MOORE®

who was described as a wealthy young man

and writer who was very int ested in helping JURE.

DE LA

CARRERA stated that MOORE was in Washington, DeCe on December

11, 1963, and was to go to saigon;

around december

y 18 or 19, 1963%

DE LÃ CARRERA stated he was to contact ROBIN MOORI

through a Hungarian girl named GABRIES D'ARCY but HuNgA

was' unable

to : contact her.

-DE LA CARRERA stated that

was to inform Miss D'ARCY that JURE could make an individual

avatlable to accompany MOORE to his property in Jamaica which

was offered to JURE as a training area. U

NY T-3 advired that he made several telephone calls

and finally located GABRIEL D'ARCY at 430 Fast 56th St eet

New Yock CityA/From conversation with D'ARCY,

he ascertained

"That she was a Hungarian and the girl friend of ROBIN MOORE.

NY T-3 stated that D'ARCY also informed him that ROBIN MOORE

an attorney in New York by the name of RICHARD COULSON

who is a member of society in New York and who was the individual

who put MOORE in contact with representatives of JURE.

Miss D'ARCY told NY I-3 that MOORE is

the son of the former

Chairman of the Board of the Sheraton Hotels and that he lives

at Nashantuck Hill, Concord, Massachusetts, and that he owns

property in Jamaica wh ch is known as the Blue Lagoon which is

located about five miles from Port Antonio.

Miss D'ARCY also

told NY T-3 that ROBIN MOORE also owned about 100 acres in

Jamaica known as Boston Beach, which is located adjacent to

the property formerly owned by the late movie actor, ERROL

FLYNN. &

NY T-3, on December 12, 1963, advised that ROBIN MOORE

and Miss D'ARCY came to his office and in conversation with

MOORE

•, he ascertained that MOORE had just been to Washington,

D.G., on December 11, 1963, and had been with one Colonel BILL

JACKSON who was identified as a military aideto President

LYNDON B JOHNSON. MOORE told NY I-3 that he had attended the

NIC.

-

CONFXENTIAL

NW 54464 DooId: 32298095

Page 8

---

## Page 9

NY 105-42570

TAL

Special Forces School at Fort Bragg, North Carolina and

that President JOHNSON wanted him to

travel to Tetram

in order to write a book on the special Forces Oe coo

in that country.

MOORE aso stated

that he had written a

book on

Cuba which was entitled, "The Devil to Pay." u

NY T-3,advised that, from his conversation with

ROBIN MOORE and Miss D'ARCY, he formulated his personal

opinion that MOORE was the typical son of a weaLthy man

who was immature and in search of

also stated that he was of the opinion that Miss D'ARCY

"kept woman"

volcat arent 133c

NY I-3

During conversation with MOORE, he

also ascertained that JOHN CUSHMAN was his literary agent

In New York and had an office at 38th and Madison Avenue,

telephone humber OR 9-5650.

MOORE also told NY T-3 that

close friend, RICHARD COULSON, an attorney, was the

individual who had put him in contact with

the members of

JURE in New York. U

NY I-3 on December 13, 1963, advised that he met

CARRERA and DE LA

CARRERA informed him that JURE was willing to send a man

to Jamaica that weekend with ROBIN MOORE to look over the

prospects of utilizing MOORE's property in Jamaica as a

staging area for their activities against Cuba. U

DE LA CARRERA told NY T-3 that JURE would send

either Fate an officer of Jure, or one

RODRIGUEZ, a Tormer employee of Cubana Airlines in New

York, to Jamaica with MOORE.

DE LA CARRERA stated that

If they do go:

they would probably leave for Jamaica

on December 16, 1963, and would spend two days in Jamaica.

DE LA CARRERA stated that in a conversation with MOORE on

December 12

1963, MOORE stated that he would confer with

Sir ALEXANDER BUSTAMONTE of Jamaica to see if BUSTAMONTE

MEMEER OF SUDISCI CAGAI

ZATION

would allow the use

or his property near Port Antonio as

a staging area for activities against Cuba.

DE LA CARRERA told

NY T-3 that 1f

they were able to use MOORE's property in

Jamaica as a staging area, they would advertise it as a

charter fishing company or

as a base for individuals

interested in treasure hunting. . DE LA CARRERA informed u

- 7 -

COMXUENTIAL

54464 DocId: 32298095 Page 9

---

