# docid-32294560

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10213-10336

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-68

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SJ

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

CUBANA AIRLINES, TERRORIST ACT, ACA, OBA, ORGANIZATION, CONDOR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/11/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE

HH 53932 DocId: 32294560

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10/22/7610

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

Attached teletype furnishes information

eported byrsJ 1668-S-on 10/20/76 to the

effect that Coordinacion de Organizacione.

Revolucionarias Unidas (Coordination of

United Revolutionary Organizations) (CORU)

under the leadership of Orlando Bosch Avila

was responsible for the crash of the Cubana

Airlines DC-8 on 10/6/76.

)

9-12-97

organizations.

REASON:

DECLASSIFY ON: X/

A total of three anonymous phone calls

(JFK)

were received by Miami, Florida, news media

claiming credit for this terrorist act. Two

calls were made claiming credit in the name

"Condor"' organization.

The second

of these calls appeared to be triggered by a

call which claimed credit in the name of

CORU.

This second call directed news media

"Condor" communique located in a Miami

newsstand which described the method and

explosive charge used in the bombing and

called for CORU to retract its claim for

credit.

We were not aware of the existence of

a "Condor" organization.

Attached explains

that CORU uses different names such as

"Condor" to take credit for "military

operations" within the U. S. with the slu)

R. G. Held

ATT: ENFORXATION CONZATHE

B. Adams

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIVINO

1

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

1

-

Mr.

-

Mr.

- Mr.

T.

W. Leavitt OTHERWISE

D.

Moore

R.

J.

Gallagher

SECRET

JPG: imb

NW 53932 DooId: 32294560 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE SJ 2-72

ADMINISTRATIVE:

THE CONFIPENTTAL SOURCE 1S Ta

BT

IONFIDENTAL

NW 53932 DooId: 32294560 Page 3

---

