# docid-32302790

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10282-10302

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-459457-1ST NR 1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

09/25/1972

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

RCF, ASSOC, DESCR, TRA, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32302790

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 100-175224

For the information of Portland, San Francisco,

and Seattle, LASKY recently visited the New York area

photographs were obtained and are being provided in view

Of LASKY's extensive involvement in Weatherman matters on

the west Coast.

The following pertains: to LASKY's activities

at New York City:

: on 9/15/72, NY 11893-EG, advised that an individual

matching the description of subject arrived at the

apartment complex, 205 W. 89th St., NYC, at approximately

2:30 p.m., 9/14/72. LASKY was observed

exiting apartment

complex at 10:00 a.m., on 9/15/72 by Bureau Agents.

on 9/15/72, NY 11893-EG, advised that subject,

in company with DANA ANN MC ILWAIN and BARBARA OLSON,

departed theapartments in the evening and dined at a

small chinese restaurant in the general area of the

apartments.

Subject got in an argument with the owner

of this restaurant when he claimed that he found a dead

roach on his plate, and refused to pay his bill. The

owner claimed subject brought the roach with him in an

effort to get a free meal.

Subject paid for the drinks

but did not pay. for his meal. All three individuals re-

turned that evening to the MC ILWAIN/OISON apartment,

Number 10-F, 205 W. 89th St.

On 9/15/72; LASKY exited the apartments at

approximately 10:00 a.m., walked around the apartments

then returned temporarily and departed again.

He appeared

to be looking around the neighborhood. At 12:50 p.m.,

subject returned to the apartments. At 1:15 p.m., he

exited the apartuents. again went to a nearby pizza sept

next went to a Bar-B-@ restaurant and ate alone.

exited this restaurant and slowly nade his way back to

205 W. 89th St.

(LASKY was very evasive in his maneuvers

on this date.

He appeared to be watching activity across

the street from where he stood by looking at the re-

flection on store glass windows while pretending to

window-shop:

he constantly back-tracked and crossed

streets at random; he constantly changed his pace and

=2.

NW 54464 DooId: 32302790

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 200-175224

approximately 5'9" in height, 155 pounds, brown hair-

curly-unkept,

down just past collar in back, to eyebrows

In front, mustache that wrapped around to a short goatee,

vandyke style,. long-narrow face, close set eyes.

After about two hours, both LASKY and FRANK

exited the Nineth Circle and entered 148w. 10th St.,

NYC. One half hour later, LASKY exited alone, carrying a

took considerable evasive action in-

Nineth Circle, then proceeded to the subway and re-

white envelops, in phone booth and a return trip to the

cluding a stop

turned to รถ9th Street, NYC.

On 9/19/72, LASKY exited the apartments alone,

carrying a small leather suitcase proceeded via public

transportation to John F. Kennedy airport, took United

Flight Number 5 to Los Angeles.

He did not make re-

servations for this flight.

The flight departed New

York at 12:00 p.m., due to arrive at

2:20 p.m., LA time.

In addition to the evasive action mentioned

Lse too westate teet while at the Nineth Circle,

took a table next to a window, he faced onedirection

and FRANK faced the other direction,

they had an un-

obstructed view of the street in both directions.

NY 11893-EG overheard LASKY talking to the door-

man at 205 w. 89th St., on several occasions.

Upon

arrival LASKY commented that he would be staying about

three days, that he was a cousin of MC ILWAIN,

that he

was from the West Coast and that he was originally from

the New York area.

LASKY was later overheard talking

about his ordeal at the Chinese restaurant, and, upon

departure from the New York area, he told

the doorman

exactly how he intended to travel to JFKIA, and advised

that he was heading back to the west Coast.

The signifi-

cance of this is not known but it does not seem consistent

with his otherwise clandestine behavior.

NW 54464 DooId: 32302790

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 100-175224

While at NYC, LASKY resided at Apartment 10-F,

205 W. 89th Street, residence of DANA ANN MC ILWAIN and

BARBARA OLSON. Investigation of MC ILWAIN and CLSON,

as well as other individuals at the West 89th Street

address, is being conducted at NY under the caption

"DANA ANN MC ILWAIN; SM-PA. (EXTREMIST), (00:LA)" (NY 100-176779).

Investigation of FRANK will be conducted under

case caption "RICHARD FRANK, JR., aka, Pick; SMoPA;

(00:NY) (NY 100-177125).

Investigation at NY has determined that

FRANK resides in Apartment 2-4, 148 We 10th Street, NYC,

with DARIAN PRICE and is a member of the Elephants

Memory, a rock music group.

On 9/21/72, NY 7543-S advised DARIAN PRICE

has been deeply involvedin various New Left causes

and is currently the manager of the Elephants Memory.

Source added that this rock group is heavily

involved in drugs.

Numerous photographs of unknown individuals

were obtained during surveillances.

These will be reviewed

by NY and information obtained will be disseminated.

LEADS

LOS ANCELES

to NY 100-177125.

2. Display photos of OLSON and FRANK to sources.

ALL INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN NE! LEFT EXTREMIST

ACTIVITY SHOULD BE CONSTDEPED DANAEOPUS BECUASE

OF THEY KNOWN ANYOCACY AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES,

REPORTED ECQUISTTTON OF FIPEAMS AND INCENDIAY

DEVICES, AND KNOVY PROPENSTTY TOP VIOLENCE.

= 5.

NW 54464 DooId: 32302790 Page 4

---

