# docid-32556705

## Page 1

...

=.o0

11-8-65

Airtel

S

MAILED 19

TO: SAC, Chicago (92-373) REC-48

From: Direcor, FBI

(92-3162) - 1117

GUS ALEX, aka

ST-101

AR

Re Bureau airtel 10-26-65 and your airtel 11-4-65.

It is not felt that the letterhead memorandum

submitted with your airtel contains sufficient specific

information to resolve the question raised by Swiss authorities

concerning the identity of Alex and the proof that he is the

individual who is the subject of the Swiss entry ban.

You should resubmit a revised letterhead memorandum

containing more detailed and evidential type information to

support the identification of Alex as a leading Chicago

hoodlum figure and as the person banned by Swiss authorities.

Consideration should be given to setting forth any pertinent

information as to Alex's record of arrests. Also dates of pert-

inent travel to Europe and Switzerland and passport data on Alex.

Also advise Bureau of pertinent handwriting comparison

which can be made to establish that Alex is the person who

visited Switzerlandand submit any necessary specimens in order

that the Laboratory can immediately make indicated comparison.

1965

Legat has requested this matter be given prompt

attention and in view of this, you should resubmit requested

material by 11-11-65.

NOV 8

OTE:

Chicago hoodlum Gus Alex and his paramour visit Switzerland

ach winter on vacation and Legat Bern has established appropriate

doverage in past years through Swiss authorities. Following last

visit of Alex during past winter Swiss authorities issued a prohibit-

ion against Alex's re-entry into this country on the basis that he

was an undesirable. Alexhas appealed and Swiss police now advise

they feel there is some question of identity as to whether there

are

two persons by the name of Gus Alex involved and have requested

further verification concerning this.

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr .

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad -

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

JGL: mIp

MAIL ROOM

ETYPE UNIT I

1529

DEC รท1028

NH 45679

DocTd: 32556705

Page 1

---

