# docid-32298025

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10301

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-897-232, 233, 234, 235, 236, 237

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI.

FROM:

SAC, BA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/02/1958

PAGES:

13

, SUBJECTS :

EB, ASSOC, OBTAINING, ARMS, AMMUNITION, BRIBERY,

BREAKING AND ENTERING, TRA, PLANE, DESCR, IDENT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 4 TTY, MEMO

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

49 1

HH 54463

23

DocId: 32298025

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum. • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

yn

4

Tic: 1 - Belmont

- TUTUn

1 - corman

DATE: August 3, 1958

SUBJECT:

Tolson

Boardm ar

Belmont

Mohr

-

Nease

Parsons

Rosen .

*Tamm -

Trotter -

Clayton

Tele. Room -

followen

D

SA/

8 MACI

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

JIVa

553

AL DOBEK; ED BROWDER; Unsub, wa.

NEUTRALITY MATTER,

FEDERAL FIREARMS ACT, NATIONAL FIREARMS ACT,

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION STOLEN PROPERTI,

MAJOR THEFT

saltimore Ifice aduised early fol: 8-2-58 that crimina.

informant,

BA 1154-0

aduised that date he had been approached bu

subjects to case lInterarnco, Alexandria,

Virginia, for purpose of

obtaining large amount of arms and ammunition either by bribery ou

an employee or

through breaking and entering?

Informant willind

follow Bureau instructions and Baltimore requested Bureau aduise.

Per instructions ur. J. A. Sizoo, Baltimore Office was

aduised pureau feels data should be disseminated to customs Service St

P.D:; however, Baltimore should submit recommendations

because of possible compromise of source, his value and whether

source should become involved.

Baltimore submitted teletype 10:27 P.M., stating informant

had been recontacted by Reds who asked informant now he made out

casing Interarmoo.

Informant aduised Reds he was unable to do so

due to illness.

Reds told informant. to set up job Monday morning

3-1-58. Baltimore teletype instructed Richmond to aduise Alexandri

P-Dool information in manner protecting source. Baltimore aduisen

informant would be instructed to

call Browder in Miami P.M. 8-4-58

and advise Browder he (informant) cased Interarmoo and has decided

he wants no part of plan. Baltimore also aduised Bureau may desire

to aduise Customs.

Irank Russell,

supervisor V. Turyn furnished following information to

Assistant Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Customs,

11:05 P.Me,

8-2-58, telephanigaIly:

REC- 42

2-8.

7-231

→Bureau received information that subjects

names,

Of aTMS

Atefarmco, 200

south Union at Prince Street, Alexandria,

Virginia,

either by bribery

of an official or through breaking and entering. Indications

were that

Job would take place soon, possibly monday, 8-4-58. Customs was caution

ed not to disclose Bureau

as source of information

or take any action

which might jeopardize Bureau source.

Russell was

advised that

Alexandria I.D. was being' informed in: view breaking and entering

aspect.

VIskg bg

fe

5 12 12588

ADDENDUL PAGE 2

* with stated intention

Ship dr'ms from Us.

5 ke

NW 54463 DooId: 32298025

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 195g1

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr..

Mr. Nease.

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman_

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

8-2-58

10-27 P

RHD

TODIRECTOR, FBI AND SACS, MM, RH, WFO

FROM SAC, BALTIMORE

2 P

Pery

AL DOBEK, ED

BROWDER, UNSUB, WA.

REDS, NEUTRALITY MATTER, FFA, NFA,

ITSP, MAJOR THEFT. RE BA TELETYPE AND BUREAU TELEPHONE CALL TO

131

BA THIS DATE. AT SEVEN FIFTEEN P. M. CRIMINAL INFORMANT BA ONE

2.!

ONE FIVE FOUR DASH C ADVISED THAT UNSUB WA. REDS HAD JUST TELE-

PHONICALLY CONTACTED HIM AND ASKED HOW HE MADE OUT CASING THE

INTERARMCO. CI TOLD REDS HE WAS NOT ABLE TO CASE JOB TODAY BECAUSE

OF ILLNESS. REDS TOLD CI TO SET UP JOB MONDAY MORNING AND THAT IT

PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE NECESSARY FOR CI TO ACTUALLY PULL THE JOB

BECAUSE HE SAID BROWDER HAD JUST FINISHED TALKING TO A PERSON IN

EUROPE AND THIS PERSON COULD PROBABLY GET THE ITEMS ALRIGHT. REDS

SAID THAT THEY WOULD STILL NEED SOMEONE TO GET THE QUOTE STUFF OUT

ENQUOTE. CI SAID HE BELTEVED HIS PART WAS TO EITHER HELP GET IT

OUT OF THE COMPANY OR OUT OF THE STATE... REDS STATED DOBEK WAS

H

ALREADY IN MIAMI AND HE AND BROWDER WERE WAITING FOR A PLANE TO

RETURN TO MIAMI, CALL WAS MADE FROM A UNKNOWN TELEPHONE. REDS

INSTRUCTED CI TO CALL THEM ON MONDAY P. M. AND BY THEN THEY SHOULD

KNOW WHETHER THE

PERSON IN

TO HELP. CI ADVISED

ALL INFORMATZON CONTAIN

END PAGE ONE.... FREIR IS UNCIASSISN

53 AUG 12 1958

DATS 1018, 94

REC: LEP

З МАС.

-234

53

tà AUG 8 1958

Mr. Belmont

EX-135

TWO COPIES WEO

NW 54463 DocId: 32298025

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

CONMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 1958

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Nease_

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm.

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Suilivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

URGENT

8-2-58

4-43 PM EDT

FJC

6-01

TO

DIRECTOR AND SAC-S MIAMI, RICHMOND, AND WASHINGTON

FIELD

FROM

SAC,

BALTIMORE 4 P

AL DOBEK,

BROWDER, UNSÚB, WAN

2-

REDS, NEUTRALITY

MATTER, FRA, NIA,:

ISP, MAJOR THEFT. FOR INFO BUAOD RECEIVING OFFICES, BA ONE ONE FIVE

FOUR C IS POOL HALL OPERATOR AT MI. RANIER, MD. AT NINE. FIFTY AM THIS

DATE CI WAS CONTACTED BY THE THREE SUBJECTS, WHO WOKE UP CI AT HIS RES-

IDENCE. CI HAS KNOW DOBEK SINCE NINETEEN FIFTYFIVE. CI USED TO BE IN

REAL ESTATE BUSINESS AND HE KNEW DOBEK AS REAL ESTATE SALESMAN WHO WAS

ALWAYS OUT TO MAKE FAST MONEY DOBEK INTRODUCED THE OTHERS AND TOLD CI /

HE WANTED HIM TO SET UP A JOB. BROWDER THEN TOOK OVER AND TOLD CI HE

WANTED HIM TO GO TO THE INTERARMCO, TWO ZERO ZERO SOUTH UNION AT PRINCE

STRLET, ALEXANDRIAS VA AND EASE THE WARIMOUSE THERE AND MAKE PLANS TOR

OBTAIN THEREFROM A LARGE QUANTITY OF ARMS AND AMMO. BROWDER SUGGESTED

TWO WAYS TO DO THIS. EITHER TO GET A COLORED EMPLOYEE WITH A TWO

THOUSAND DOLLAR BRIBE OR TO SET UP A B AND E. BROWDER TOLD CI TO MIRE

A TRACTOR TRAILER TRUCK AND STORE IT UNTIL THE JOB COULD BE PULLED.

BROWDER SAID HE WANTED THE FOLLOWING ARMS AND AMMO,

CORRECTION LINE TWO WORD STY BURE

PAGE ONE. 00

ALE INFORMATION CONTAINEE

MCT 41 -

2-897-232

END

REC- 42

15 AUG 8 1958

59 AUG 1 2 1958:

(OFK)

Mro Rosen

Mr,

Belmont

TWO COPIES WEO

NW 54463 DooId: 32298025

Page 4

---

