# docid-32304085

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10097

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR 105-119764-1

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: SAC. MM

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1963

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: LB, REL, RES, BOMB, COMMITTEE TO RESCUE CUBANS FROM CUBA, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/02/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NEWS ARTIC

NH 53025 DocId:32304085 Page 1

---

## Page 2

IT .

Meier

MI.

Nasca

Mr. Wagoner April 5, 1963

AIRTEL

CONFIDENTIAL

ALL INFORMATION CONTANER

To :

SAC,

HEREIN IS UNCLASS ARE

Director, FBI

(JER)

COMMITTEE

TO RESCUE CUBANS

FROM

(COLITE RESCATE DE CUBANOS)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISTRATION ACT • CUBA

DATE OF BOVISI

12.6.9

PI Son Be 155

15-83

8-35-313

/

#211,326

Seurtol 4/1/63 captioned "Unsub,

Bohbing of Residence of

Maria Balbuena; 91% Southwest 5th Avenue, Miant, Florida, March 31,

1963; Bombing Motters."

Department has been advised of bombing; however, inasnuch as

local law enforcement authorities have not requested Bureau investiga

tion,

the Departnent has requested no investigation at this time.

Miami should make certain, however, ay information developed by

local

authorities of possible interest to Goverment agencies is furnished

your office.

Submit any such data to Bureau in form suitable for

dissemination.

Should any intoration be developed indicating bombing

was foreign directed or planned,

same should be imnediately furnished

Bureau, together with dotails of action being taken by your office.

Miani is instructed to interview Maria. Balbuena for purpose

of obtaining detailed information regarding the Committee to Rescue

Cubans from Cuba, including the identities of its officers and member

You should ascertain its method

operation and details of financing. Identities of any contacts in

methods of conmunication with those individuale.

Inforants determine organization's importance and influence 14 pyer.

and ant astro actuates a ak

165- 110769-

You should into Flew Ill inbuena for purpose of obtaining

any iniormation in his possession regarding the identities and activ

Tolson

Any

Belmnidate obtained

Mohr

regarding L-66 should be furnished Bureau under

Casper appropri

Callahan

aption in form suitable for dissemination. &V

Conrad

DeLoach

105-117222

(1L66)

SEE NOTE, PAGE TWO

Evans

Gale

105-95677

(Haitian Revolutionary Activities)

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

7W: 005, 296921

(Rescate)r

Trotter

APR 209)

Tale. Roomi

Holme's

Gandy

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

APR5 - 1908

COMMITE

105-956

NW 53025 DooId: 32304085

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Airtel to Miami

RE:

COMMITTEE

TO RESCUE CUBANS FROM CUBA

CONE SENTIAL

With

regara to Luis Balbuena, Miami refer to your airtel and

letterhead memorandum dated 3/19 and 25/63 captioned "Haitian

Revolutionary Activities; IS - Haiti."

Miami should be alert for

any information that bombing was reprisal action against Balbuena

due to his furnishing information regarding alleged plot to overthrow

government of President Duvalier of Haiti.

NOTE:

sane

See cover nemorandum W. R. Wannall to W. C. Sullivan

caption, dated 4/4/63, by RDC:md.

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2-

HW 53025 DocId: 32304085

Page 3

---

