# docid-32326707

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90056-10014

HQ

183-737-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : SF

TITLE :

DATE:

06/28/1976

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32326707

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Released unter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Ant

11-11-2017

fd1 USC 2107 Hote).

CODE

TELETYPE

EX-1I2]

TO SAC SAN FRANCISCO

SEC 881832411-

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

NITEL

JUNE 28, 1976

SALVATORE AMARENA; ET AL; RICO; 00: SAN FRANCISCO.

RE SAN FRANCISCO NITEL TO BUREAU JUNE 24, 1976.

SAN FRANCISCO SHOULD NOT USE INFORMANT SYMBOL NUMBER

FOR THE MICROPHONE INSTALLATION AT SF 8677-PC'S APARTMENT.

SF 8677-PC HAS AGREED TO TESTIFY IN THIS MATTER, AND THE

MICROPHONE CAN ONLY BE MONITORED WHEN SF 8677-PC IS PRESENT

IN THE ROOM WHERE THE CONVERSATION IS BEING CARRIED ON.

THEREFORE, THE SOURCE WOULD NORMALLY BE CITED AS A PARTY

TO ANY CONVERSATION BEING MONITORED.

SAN FRANCISCO WILL FOLLOW NORMAL PROCEDURE AND NOT REFER

TO THE MICROPHONE AS A SOURCE BUT QUOTE THE ACTUAL PARTIES TO

THE CONVERSATION AND ATTRIBUTE IT TO THE CONSENSUAL MONITORING.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. —

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval. _

Rec. Mgnt.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone RM..

Director Sec"y

San Francisco obtained AG approval for consensual

Monitoring of conversations in confirential sources

apartment where source meets with ICN figures.

San Francisco

the microphone installation and

referring to the mitfophone installation.

FEDORA DUNCHO UF INVESTIGATON

I 20 a all COMMUNICATIONS SECTION -

JUN 2 8 1976

Who 5:47P

TEL'ÉTYPE

MAIL ROOM'P"

TELETYPE UNIT

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32326707 Page 2

---

