# docid-32330421

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10084

HQ

105-84265-26

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DONAHOE

TO:

BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 02/08/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330421

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

UN T NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOV NMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDE

TAL

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

- Belmont

- Donahoe

-Cotter

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

TO

Ao Ho Belmon

DATE:

February 8, 1960

Tamm

Trotter

7131181

W.C. Sullivan

FROM

S.

B. Donahoe fo

CLASS. & EXT.

- Tele. Roo

BY2842 PMV| BA/Am Gandy

REASON-ICIM II,

DATE OF REVIEW

12.4.2

7131|91

SUBJECT:

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ, ET AL.

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS - VICTIM

KIDNAPPING - CONSPIRACY

DECLASSIFIED BY

Эрз mAese

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

0#

6-94

BAL

Fla-cuba

Mrs. Catherine Kaaffe, who has been volunteering data to

us for some time re Cuban situation, recently furnished Miami

information concerning kidnapping plot by Cuban agents against

AFFACI

Hasferrer, prominent Cuban exile in Miami. Acting on data supplied

*by taaffe, Miami Office placed Special Agent (posing as corrupt local

police officer) in touch with subjects on 1/27/60 and, when Agent

was propositioned to assist in abduction of Masferrer, Miami

arrested Valdes and Fernandez on kidnapping-conspiracy charge. Fernandes

is identical with Ma 635-s, heretofore a valuable paid security

informant of Miami; however, informant was not known to have been

involved in plot until time of arrest. Fernandez claims that he had

no prior knowledge of kidnapping scheme and no opportunity to advise.

Miami Office of plot before his arrest.

urs. Taaffe claims that

scheme was first broached to her in mid January, 1960, by Valdes

and two unidentified Cuban Agents in Havand.

By cable 2/4/60

Legat, Havana, has now reported that official of Cuban National Police

has advised U. S. Embassy official in Havana that subjects; both

ON/CONTAINED

BORED EXCEDT

THERWISE.

ALL INFORSAT

UN

SHOWN

HEREIN

WHERE

of whom are connected with Cuban police agencies, acted entirely on

their own and without official sanction in this matter According

to this Cuban official, Mrs. Taaffe, who is known to Cubans as agent

for Cuban counterrevolutionary group supported by Dominican

Dictator Trujillo, originated the plot against Masferrer and recruited

Fernandez and Valdes.

This source further reported that Mrs. Taffe's

motive was to promote adverse publicity against Castro regime. M

U)

It is clear that one or more of the principals involved

here are not telling the truth.. Mrs. Taoffe is of dubious

reliability and we already have a pending investigation of her

on allegations she is acting as both pro and anti-Castro agent.

F'ernandez has offered what appears to be plausible story as to

his part of this affair; however, he may very well be withholding

full facts.

It can be expected,

of course, that official Cuban

sources,

such as referred to in Legat's cable, will disavow any

Enclosure

tT9 8 30105-8426952

105-84265:

REC- 69

13 FEB. * 9 1960

RDC: jlw

142

62 FE3

11:960

CONFIDANTIAL EX-132

NW 54460 DocId: 32330421

Page 2

---

