# docid-32295311

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10087

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2713-461

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/27/1967

51

CM, ASSOC, RACK AND SUBV ACT, TRA, FGJ SUBPOENA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

4

Redact

12/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45855

14

DocId: 32295311 Page 1

---

## Page 2

:

:

NO 92-36/1rs

4. Will determine background information and identify

RONALD D. BAGLEY, who utilized Gulf 01l Credit Card for Churchill

Farms. in Louisiana, Texas, Colorado, and California.

5. Will interview LARRY BERNSTEIN relative to CARLOS

MARCELLO.

Will report identity of registrants of vehicles

parked at Town and Country Motel on September 21, 1967.

7. Will interview MARCELLO's girlfriend, LUCIA MICELI,

toward developing her as a source.

8. Will follow and report activities of MARCELLO.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NO T-1

NO 1530-PC

NO T-2

IN 237-C

NO T-3

NO 1252-PC

NO T-4

EDMUND F. ELTIFE

NO T-5

NO 1457-C-TE

NO T-6

Contacting Agent

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA WILLIAM F. DUKES

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA WILLIAM P. GREAVES

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA ALBERT B. MILLER

PCI

NO T-7

PCI

NO T-8

NO 1529-PC

SA RONALD W. BEINNER

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

OTHER 4

D

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DocId: 32295311 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36/1rs

Identity of Source

Contacting Agent

NO T-9

MO 88-C

NO T-10

SA JACK EVANS MEHL

NO 1435-C-TE

NO T-11

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

NO 1552-PC

NO T-12

SA JOHN A. PFEIFER

SAM HANNA

(By Request)

NO T-13

SA RICHARD K. BUTZ

NO 1537-C-TE

NO T-14

SAM DOMINO

SA'S THOMAS L. COLARELLI and

PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

(By Request)

NO T-15.

SA NATHAN O. BROWN

NO 1242-C

NO T-16

SA WILLIAM P. GREAVES

PCI

ADMINISTRATIVE:

NO 1457-C-TE advised on September 4, 1967, that CARLOS

MARCELLO had indicated to the source that he had been in touch

sith several individuals who had appeared in the recent "Life'

magazine article. From speaking with these individuals, MARCELLO

is convinced that

obtained from "bugs". MARCELLO determined from the unknown.

individuals with whom he spoke that they are just going to sit

still for this situation.

MARCELLO advised that he is not going

to sit still for it as he feels he is politically too strong in

Louisiana.

Informant believed that MARCELLO has probably been in

touch with some of his political associates and advised them of

his belief relative to the source of the "Life" magazine article,

E

COVER PAGE

HW

45855 DocId: 32295311 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

NO 92-36/1rs

NO 1457-C-TE, on September 14, 1967, advised that CARLOS

MARCELLO is highly enraged at his attorneys for allowing a change

of venue motion to be granted in Federal District Court, Eastern

District of Louisiana, on September 13; 1967.

MARCELLO and his

attorneys never thought such a motion would be granted and this

motion was merely for harassment purposes.

Informant stated that during the evening of September

13, 1967, MARCELLO roundly cursed his attorneys and during the

evening of September 13, 1967, he also telephonically contacted

several unknown political figures. These contacts were for the

sole purpose of attempting to determine how he could have the

change of venue motion decision rescinded. Informant stated

that MARCELLO firmly believed that he can beat any case in the

State of Louisiana; however, he is in real trouble if tried

outside the State of Louisiana•

Informant stated that during the evening of September

12,

1967, he determined that CARLOS MARCELLO had two electronic

devices which he contemplated introducing into evidence in Federal

District Court on September 13, 1967. MARCELLO had an electronics

expert waiting to testify relative to these devices. MARCELLO

contemplated claiming that one device came off a telephone pole

at his Churchill Farms Estate and the other came from his home at

3908 Clifford Drive, Metairie, Louisiana.

MARCELLO intended,

through his attorneys, to allege that these devices were United

States Government devices.

On September 22, 1967, the Houston Division furnished

the duplicate sheets of the Gulf Oil Company Credit Card issued

to MARCELLO for the previous six-month billing period. No

information of value was contained in these bills.

It is noted that MARCELLO has received extensive

regional coverage due to a recent series in "Life Magazine".

The period of this report overlaps the period of the

previous report due to investigative results not reaching case

file in time for inclusion in last report.

New " symbols assigned to instant report for clarity

and to protect producing informants.

F*

COVER PAGE

NW 45855 DocId:32295311 Page 4

---

