# docid-32307379

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10292-10082

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2824-90, 91, 92

Released under the John

F. Kennedt

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Casef:1M 45754 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NEWSOM, MILTON L.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/16/1961

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS :

JFC, SUR, RES, BANK RECORDS, REL, BUSS, ASSOC,

GAMBLING ACT, INTV, VUCI, FRANK LEA, KOHN, AARON

M., RECHENBERG, GEORGE FREDERICK, PATRONO,

JOHNNY ROSS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : INC RPT, MEMO

v9.1

¡HH 45754 DocId: 32307379

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

DL 92-36

DALLAS DIVISION

AT DALIAS, TEXAS

1.

Will maintain contact with informants and sources

concerning CIVELLO's current activities, continue spot checks

and attempt to develop additional sources.

Will make further

ARTHUR STRICKLAND at Mesquite, Texas.

attempts to interview EDWARD

Will follow and maintain close coverage of CIVELLO'S

3.

associates.

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE:

The following list of informants are being utilized

in following the activities of CIVELLO and his associates:

DL- 95-C

DL- 99-C

DL-: 105-C

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

CLINT A. ALLEN

PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI

Confidential Source

Confidential Source

Confidential Source

Confidential

Source

Confidential

Source

AJFK Act 6 (1)

JEROME: J. CRANE

ROBERT A. BURROW

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

DL I-l iS DI-105-C

DU I-? iS R..A. BURROW, Chief Special Agen ballas.

Southwestern Bell Telephone Co•,

DL T-24 is PCI|

DL: T-26

is Confidential Source

DL T-27

is PCI

DL T-29

is PCI

DL T-31

is CLINT A. ALLEN

DL. T-33

is PCI JOSEPH N. FERRARI

COVER PAGE

NW 45754 DooId: 32307379

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 92-36

previous investigation and as further investigation may be

requested.

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA

*Will contact logical sources in an effort to

determine degree of association

between JOSEPH CIVELLO and

FRANK L. VUCI.

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Will consider contacting AARON M. KOHN for any

information he may have concerning CIVELLO.

DALLAS DIVISION

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

(1)

Will contact the following informants for any

additional information they have developed concerning CIVELLO'S

activities:

IRS

REVIEWED BY BUJFK TASK FORCE

PCI JOHN MICHAEL GRIZZAFFI

ON

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER

7.1.98 dah

PCI BENNY H. BICKERS

I RELEASE IN FULL

DI- 99-C

DI- 105-C

EL RELEASE IN PART

(2)

Will maintain contact with establishe dENsces,

continue spot checks and attempt to develop additional sources

relative to CIVELLO's activities.

(3)

Will attempt to arrange spontaneous interviews of

G. F. RECHENBERG, EDWARD ARTHUR STRICKLAND and JOHNNY ROSS

PATRONO concerning their knowdedge of CIVELLO's activities.

(4)

Will maintain contact with

for information concerning

Law 11(a)

their investigation of CIVELLO's

ADMINISTRATIVE

INFORMANT COVERAGE:

The following list of informants are being utilized

in following the activities of CIVELLO:

-B-

COVER PAGE

92-2824-90

HW 45751 DocId:32307379 Page 3

---

## Page 4

...??

DL 92-36

DL- 99-C

DI-105-C

PCI JOHN

MICHAEL GRIZZAFFI

PCI FRED M. SULLIVAN

PCI WYNNE H. MILLER

PCI SAM LADART

PCI BENNY H. BICKERS

Confidential Source ED BUTLER

Confidential Source

JEROME J. CRANE

Confidential Source

WILLIAM CRAIG

Confidential Source

R. A. BURROW

Confidential Source

EARL FINDLING

Confidential Source WILLIAM B.. WILSON

Confidential Source ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS:

T-1 is DL-105-C

T-25 is PCI WYNNE H. MILLER

T-20 is NY-3123-C*

T-30 iS ROBERT L. ALBRITTEN, Special Agent,

Intelligence Section, IRS.

Careful consideration was given to each source

concealed by T symbols in

this report and I symbols were

utilized only where identities must be concealed.

The above individuals have been known to furnish

reliable information and have been in a position to furnish

information concerning CIVELLO's activities.

Mr. JOSEPH COREY, Departmental Attorney appeared •

at the Dallas Office on 10/4/61 and conferred with SA MILTON

L. NEWSOM relative to the investigation of JOSEPH FRANCIS

CIVELLO.

Information concerning CIVELLO's oil lease holdings

in Louisiana and Oklahoma, plus real estate holdings in Dallas

were discussed with Mr. COREY,

It was pointed out that

JEK Law 11(al)

It was also pointed out to Mr. COREY that information was

previously received that CIVELLO stated grand jury investigations

and the trial in USDC at New York had cost him $50,000 in

attorney fees. Mr. COREY stated

he would discuss the matter

-C-

COVER PAGE

92-2824-90

HH 45754 DocId:32307379 Page 4

---

