# docid-32308256

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10114

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-72630-106

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/29/1963

2

PDL, FS, ASSOC, PLAN, AIRPLANE, PROPAGANDA, LEAFLET

DROP, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32308256

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

FD-361 Rey. 12-13-36)

FBI

! U*8

REVIEWED BY REJFK TASK FORCEDate: 7/29/63

Transmit the following in 7.23. 77 dot

AIRTEL

(Igpo in plain text or code)

Via

• RELEASE IN FULL

AIRMAIL

RELEASE IN PART

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Di TOTAL DENIAL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-72630)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-1598) (P)

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDEN BY

PEP"

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ

IS - CUBA

дії.

8ma

DECLAS

9-1499 (St, 15)

U. S. Border Patrol on 7/27/63, advised that

information was received that the following day the

subject and RAMON GARCIA, a Cuban pilot, would drive

to a landing strip near Polk City, Fla., obtain a

Bellanca airplane and fly it to North Perry Airport,

Broward County, Fla.

They would be met by FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS,

American adventurer, the plane would be loaded

with

propaganda leaflets

and flown over Cuba where the

leaflets would be dropped. GARCIA and STURGIS would

serve as pilot and co-pilot.

After the plane returned

STURGIS would fly by commercial airplane to Mexico and

give the news release concerning this raid.

Border Patrol advised this information has

"INHECORDED COPY FILED IN

been disseminated to all Federal agencies in Miami.

Bureau (AM - RM)

Miami

RJD/gtj

(5)

47

AUG

REC- 28/05 -2262

4106

XEROX EX-101

JUL 31 1963

133

2

Approved:

Sent

Pers

2460

DocTd: 32308256

Special Agent in Charge

Page 2

---

## Page 3

•* FD-36 (Rev. 72-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

MM 105-1598

U. S. Border Patrol and U. S. Customs immediately

instituted physical surveillances at Polk City and North

Perry Airports.

Miami Office immediately contacted MM 639-S,

who is in touch with STURGIS, and MM 635-S, who is in

contact with DIAZ LANZ.

Both informants advised infor-

mation received by Border Patrol highly unlikely in that

STURGIS and LANZ at the present time have no such plans. u

On 7/28/63, Border Patrol stated nothing had

developed, apparently the information was false, no

Bellanca airplane ever appeared or was identified, this

might have been a publicity stunt by STURGIS and the

surveillance would be discontinued at midnight.

On 7/29/63, Border Patrol advised that as of

12:01 AM the surveillance was discontinued, the infor-

mation was obviously false and they were taking no

further action in this matter.

The above information is not being set forth

in form suitable for dissemination inasmuch as it appears

that Border Patrol had received false information, Miami

Officedid not participate and Miami informants immediately

advised that the allegation was highly unlikely and no

such plans existed.

•2 =

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54460 DocId: 32308256

Page 3

---

