# docid-32290229

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10205-10005

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-248

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

06/28/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

• v9.1

DocId: 32290229

259

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 lipte) .

• DATE

11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN 2 8 1961

TELETYPE

URGENT

6-28-61 6-04 PM CDST

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3182-

EAH

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr..

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conraat

Mr. DeLoad

Mr. Evanst

Mr. Fang Bi

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

ALEX, AKAOS ARO

DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C

ADVISED THAT PAT MARCI, SECRETARY OF FIRST WARD ALDERMAN JOHN DARCO,

WHO IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF SUBJECT, IS NOW A PARTNER IN THE OWNERSHIP

OF THE ATHENS CAFE WITH ONE SPIROS KARA, WHO FORMERLY OWNED THE

MORMANDY RESTAURANT. HE STATED THAT MARCI BOUGHT OUT THE PARTNERSHIP

INTERESTS OF STEVE TOMARAS, KNOWN CHICAGO JEWEL. AND FUR THIEF• IN-

FORMANT STATED THAT LOUIS ARGER, STATE STREET STRIP

JOINT OPERATOR

AND CLOSE SOCIAL AND BUSINESS ASSOCIATE OF ALEX, RECENTLY INVESTED

TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS IN THE COSMOPOLITAN INSURANCE COMPANY LOCATED

ON NORTH SHERIDAN ROAD, CHICAGO. THE MONEY WAS INVESTED IN THE STOCK

OF THAT COMPANY AND HE BELIEVED THAT ARGER PROBABLY PURCHASED THE

STOCK UNDER HIS WIFE-S MAIDEN NAME, MARY PITTAS. INFORMANT STATED

THAT JOHN PITTAS, BROTHERINLAW OF LOUIS ARGER, OWNS AN INTEREST IN

THE HOLIDAY LOUNGE ON SOUTH STATE STREET AND HIS PARTNER IS LOUIE

ARGER. IN ADDITION PITTAS ALSO OPERATES A

HOT DOG STAND KNOWN AS

THE ARCADE WHICH IS LOCATE

1167

REC- 37

AT CONGRESS AND STATES TREETS.:

212-

248

INFORMANT

END PAGE ONE

ES RECORDED

3 JUN 29 1961

50JUL 5

196 k

DocId: 32290229 Page 2

---

