# docid-32334046

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/3/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10039

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-58729-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/26/1961

29

FRITZ WERNER DORIGO

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HW 45876 DocId: 32334046 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-283 (Rev, S-1-58)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MIAMI

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

UNSUBS (2); Armed Robbery of

Approximately $117,200.00 in

Jewelry and Cash.

Residence

of

EDITH and FRITZ WERNER-DORIGO,

Hallandale, Pla.,

3/20/61

DATE

SEP 2 6 1961

REPORT MADE BY

HOMER R. HAUER

CHARACTER OF CASE

ITSP - MT

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/1/61 - 9/12/61

mab

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILLIAM F. HEIST at Miami, dated

4/25/61.

-P-

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Will conduct an intensive investigation concern-

Ing IRVING HORNSTEIN, who is alleged to have fenced the

Jewelry in this case..

Maximum utilization of appropriate

confidential Informants and other confidential techniques

should be exploited fully in the investigation of HORNSTEIN

to determine the present location of the jewelry.

2. Will conduct an intensive investigation

concerning known jewel thief JAMES MARTIN. Maximum

ut1l1zation of confidential Informants and other confidential

techniques should likewise be considered in the investigation

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

(1 - Bureau (87-58729)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

87-58729-

88

inspiri

Chicago

(87-16639)

Minneapolis

-

Newark

& SEP 28 1961

New York (87-22200) (Info)

:.- 8

Tampa

- Miami

S7-14098 62O INALICE

- 87-8049)

87-58729

Disesmination Record of Attached Roport

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

5 + 30bH.Ph

A's: Marola

for

ovier ai

ТЕЙ ВУ ЛОВ СТИЛЕНСА 20/2028

PECCArS

201091

Tou Buffle

STAT SECT:

NW 45876 / DocId: 32334046

Page 2

REC- 4

8

8

+

---

## Page 3

MM 87-14090

since investigation has determined that she was in no

way connected with this robbery.

Leads are not being set out in this report

to identify the subacribers to the telephone numbers

called from the telephone of NORMA SEID since this

investigation was previously requested in Miami letter

to pittsburgh, copies to Chicago, dated July 25, 1961.

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, principal suspect in Joe merola

this case,

'1s currently Incarcerated in the Federal

Correctional Institute at Talishassee, Florida, where Joseph merda

he 18 serving a five year sentence.

Juseph R linerla

- INFORMANTS-

By communication dated June 5, 1961, the

Memphis Office advised the following:

On May 17, 1961,

contacted at his residence,

I JR. was

Memphis,

MOYNIHAN.

was exbibited photographs of WALTER

PATRICK SCHANG, alSO KnOwn as PAT, MIKE SWIATEK, AkE MITE.

TREADWELL! Immediately identified the photographs

exhibited to him as photographs of Individuals whom he

lonew as PAT and MIKE 1n Miami.

Though Interviewed in detail, he was unable to

furnish any information to the interviewing agents con-

cerning robbery of the owner of the Hofbrau Haus in

addition to that which he had made known previously to

Bureau Agents at Miami.

He likewise was unable to

furnish any pertinent infornation relative to JOSEPH

RAYMOND MEROLA other than to state that in his opinion,

MEROLA was a member of the "syndicate"

• When asked to

explain what he meant by "syndicate"

, he became very

vague and stated that it was a group of hoodlums

operating out of chicago, Illinois.

He said that he

became acquainted with MEROLA originally in connectior

with his endeavors to sell his airplane.

OTHER 4

_Cover Page-

87-58729-88

HW

45876 DocId: 32334046

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 87-14090

He advised that he does not know and has never

met any individual named ANDREW NICHOLAS MASTRO. He

Ilkewise stated that he possesses no information with

regard to the JOSEPH DIMARE murder case.

stated that he does not have any

information regarding the identity of any Individual or

group of individuals to whom MEROLA might have disposed

of the stolen Jewelry. • He did stats, however, that

MEROLA had numerous contacts and it would be no problem

to dispose of stoien jewelry in Miami. He added, however,

that he did not know

fron his personal knowledge who

those contacts are.

He was requested to advise the FBI in the event

he was contacted

at some future date by MErola, et a1.

He was furthes requosted to furnish any Information that

might come to his attention regarding activities of Jewel

thieves operating anywhere. He stated he would do so.

By communication dated June 21, 1961, the

New York Office advised the following:

New York PCI WYNN LASSNER was interviewed

extensively on June 19 and 20,

196J, by SA WILLIAM DAVID

KANE. He furnished the following information:

LASSNER advised

that he returned to New York on

June 18, 1961, from California whare he has been the guest

of HARVEY HEWITT.

He explained that HEWITT brought him

out to the coast with him the first of May, 1961, 1n

connection with a cosmeticg business which HEWITT may

purchase.

HEWITH wants LASSNER to enter blisiness with

him. He stated that HEWITT is coming to Greenwich,

this week where he had hired a home for the

summer.

LASSNER stated that he drove HEWITT's car back

to New York for him.

Concerning MAURICE "RED" POLLACK, IASSNER

advised that he hes known bim for years and that POLLACK

1s presently residing at 1175 York Avenue, New York Clty.

He stated that he has not seen POLLACK since he returned

-F-

-Cover Fage-

OTHER 4

87-58729

-88

NW 45876 DocId: 32334046 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 87-14090

from Fort lauderdale, and has no desire to have anything to

do with him.

He stated, however, that POLLACK called h1ka"

jesterday,

while he was

out and left a message for him to

call back.

LASSNER stated that POLLACK has never discussed

his aotivities with him, but that he knows that POLLACK

1s broke and is probably ready to try for a "score"

sald that,

despite his desire to ramain away from POLLACK,

he will maintain contact with him on behalf of the New

Office for any information he can develop. He stated

that it 1s very Ilkely that POLLACK might ask him (LASSNER)

to accompany him to Cape Cod, 1f POLLACK goes there, since

he has Invited LASSNER to go with him for weekends in the

past, LASSNER staced that he would not accompany POLLACK

to Cape Cod, but will be alert to any conversation by

POLLACK regarding plans to go to Cape Cod and will notify

the New York Office Immediately.

Concerning the pousibility that POLLACK intends

to "heist" the jewelry owned by PAT MageE, LASSNER advised

that this possibility is very Ilkely, inaswuch as PAT

MAGER has much valuable Jewelry and POLLACK 1s desperate

for money. LASSNER stated that POLLACK would never even

hint to him of such plans, however, because POLLACK knows

that LASSNER has been a close friend of PAT MAGEE for years

and that LASSNER dated PAT long before she met HEWITT.:

In connection with information furnished by

LASSNER to former SA CARL ROOD about the activities of the

two "trigger men" named FAT and MIKElfrom Chicago and their

allegad kidnapping and murder activities, LASSNER advised

that he received this information from HERKIE STYLES: He

stated that STYLES obtained some of the information from

Ilving across the hall from PAT and MIKE and deduced some

of it as a result of questions asked of him by the FBI

concerning. PAT and MIKE.

LASSNER stated that STYLES 1s

presently in New York and that 1f the FBI wishes to

re-ipterview him, LASSNER will contact him for the New

York 'Off1oa.

LASSNER stated that, at no time, did he

observe

any weapona containing silencers, while at MEROLA's home.

_Cover Page

87-58729 - 881

NW 45876 DocId:32334046 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 87-14090

LENNY GAINES, 210 West 90th Street, New York

City,

advised SA KANE on June 20, 1961, that

he never

any weapon containing silencers, while at MEROLA's

home.

PCI GEORGE WEINGER advised SA WILLIAM F. HEIST

the following Information on July 20, 1961:

approximately July. 3,

advised that during his stay he overheard a conversation

concerning the criminal activities of JOSEPH RAYMOND

MEROLA in the Miami area.

WRINGER stated that he learned

that MEROLA masterminded the robbery. of the owners of the

Hofbrau Haus, and WEINGER believes there were three

individuals, other than MEROLA, who participated in this

robbery.

WEINGER did not learn the identities of these

individuals. He advised that MEROLA and his associates

had considerable difficulty in getting rid of the jewelry

from this theft and were dissatisfied with the small amount

of money raceived compared against the expensive items

stolen.

WEINGER stated he heard that the jewelry was

disposed of in Chicago and received by an individual

referred to as "DUNJO" (phonetic), who is either an owner,

manager or affiliated with the Club Chez Paree in Chicago.

By airtel dated August 30, 1961, the Chicago

Office advised that inquiry through

Informants reflect

that "DUNJO" 1s ldentical with DON JOSEPH Inquiry E, Owner

of the Chez Paree Night Club in Chicago Any positive

logical CIs and PCIs failed to indicate

Information that MEDLEVINE 1g fencing Jewelry or furs,

although, 1t 1s cormon knowledge that MEDLEVINE In his

capacity as owner of the night club 1s well known

and associates with Chicago hoodlums.

On August 15, 1961, MM 722-0 telephonically

advised SA H. WAYNE SWINNEY that he had learned from JOE

MEROLA and MIKE SWIATEK, who were involved in this loss,

that the jewelry was originally sold to an individual from

New Jersey.

This individual had offered to pay $30,000.00

for the total amount of Jewelry stolen and had made

-H-

-Cover Fage-

87-58729-88

NW 45876

DocId: 32334046

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 87-14090

$15,000.00 depos1t.

The purchaser had given the subjects

two days to determine whether or not they would accupt

his offer. This offer was not accepted and the money was

returned, as well as that portion of the Jewelry which

had been given to the New Jersey man to

hold.

The informant was not aware just who had gone

into the victim's home at the time of the robbery.

It

was his

Impression from talking to MIKE SWIATEK that the

Jewelry had gone to Chicago where it was subsequently

sold to RED STEINHART of New York.

not aware whether or not it actually went to STEINHART

Inasmuch as the informant was with MIKE SWIATEK in New

York the previous week,

informant which t

at which time they ran into

RED STEINKART and STEINHART was not known to SWIATEK.

It is noted that JOSEPH MEROLA was interviewed

by Pittsburgh SAS JOHN S. PORTELLA and THOMAS G. FORSYTH,

III In Miami at the request of MEROLA, made to Departmental

Attorneys WILLIAM KENNEY and WILLIAM KEHOE.

Prior to the commencement of the interview on

August 14, 1961, Departmental

Attorneys KENNEY and KEHOE

spent approximately ten minutes alone with MEROLA, after

which SAs PORTELLA and FORSYTH were called into KENNEY's

office, Room 201, Federal Building, Miami. Before the

beginning of the interview,

KENNEY

advised SAs PORTELLA

and FORSYTH that MEROLA had set the conditions that the

Departmental Attorneys be present; that he would never

testify to any Information furnished;

that he requested

his identity be protected so that none of his information

ever could be traced back to him;

and that he would not

discuss any matter in which he had been participaht.

On August 15, 1961, JOSEPH R. MEROLA stated

that this robbery was committed by him and MIKE SWIATEK

and WAITER PATRIC S MANG.

MEROLA stated that ANDREW

NICHOLAS MASTRO b : nothing to do with this armed

robbery.

MEROLA stated that PAT and MIKE used a Nash

Rambler automobile which they stole from the parking lot

of the building where they were living and after the

burglary left the Nash Rambles either on the same lot or

one block away.

He said that, they definitely did not use

-I-

-Cover Page-

87-58729 -

88

NW 45876 DocId: 32334046

Page 7.

---

