# docid-32290747

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10023

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-557

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/23/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

GAL, ASSOC, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

49.1

DocId: 32290747

Page 1

305

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of

1992 711 USc 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-11 (Rev. 3-5-62)

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

DECODED COPY

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

• Radio

xxTeletype

DEFERRED

6-23-62

3:29 PM JLS

TO DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC CHICAGO

231533

ANTIRACKETEERING

GUS

ALEX, AKA.

ARo DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6502-0% ADVISED THAT SUZANNE FUEGER, PARAMOUR OF •

ALEX, WAS READING A LETTER TO ALEX FROM HER MOTHER AND TOLD

ALEX

THAT HER MOTHER WROTE THAT SHE WAS GLAD THAT ALEX AND

SUZANNE WERE ENJOYING THEMSELVES IN THE COUNTRY ON WEEKENDS.

INFORMANT ALSO STATED. THAT SUZANNE MENTIONED TO ALEX THAT

SHE WAS GLAD SHE TOOK LAST MONDAY OFF FROM WORK AS SHE NEEDED

THE REST. ON THE LONG WEEKEND. THE REFERENCE TO THE COUNTRY

IS BÉLIEVED TO BE SAM ALEX'S FARM AT CASSAPOSIS, MICHIGAN,

AND THE DETROIT OFFICE IS CURRENTLY ATTEMPTING TO ASCERTAIN

FROM SOURCES THERE IF ALEX AND HIS PARAMOUR HAVE BEEN SEEN

VISI-FING HERE ON WEEKENDS.

EDWARD

GANS, AN ESTABLISHED SOURCE AT THE CONRAD HILTON

HOTEL WHERE FUEGER IS EMPLOYED ADVISED THAT SUZANNE WAS OFF

FROM WORK LAST MONDAY AND THAT SHE HAS REQUESTED FRIDAY,

JUNE 29, NEXT OFF. HE STATED SHE DID NOT INDICATE TO HIM HER

PAST OR

FUTURE PLANS IN SPENDING HER DAYS OFF.

THIS INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED THAT SUZANNE TOLD ALEX

"THEY WOULD NEVER FIRE ME AT THE HOTEL FOR NOT WORKING BUT

REG 59

92-31x2-35/

ST-114

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

25 JUN 26 1962

375

If the intelligence contained in the above message is

to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrases inorder, to Pretees the Bureau's cryprographic systems.

6 JUL 3

DocId: 32290747 Page 2

---

