# docid-32329932

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90088-10112

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4167-1098

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/08/1964

3

BENJAMIN BINION

JOSEPH STACHER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32329932

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released.under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

I,A 92-386

MUN INIAL

Beverly Wilshire Hotel in Beverly Hills, California; and

source stated that on March 22, 1964, HARRY GOLDENBERG Of the

Sands Reservation Office, which is located in the hotel, came

in and inquired about REGINA VILLAUDY and was very anxious to

locate her. Source was unable to advise as to whether

GOLDENBERG was successful in locating and contacting VILLAUDY

on that date; however, source stated that GOLDeNBERG on

March 23,. 1964, had lunch with VILLAUDY in the hotel dining

MARVIN ROBERT COLE

MARVIN ROBERT COLE, head of the advertising firm

of Cole

Fischer

ana Rogow..

continues to handle the

advertising accounts of the Sands Hotel and the Fremont

Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. It is noted that COLE is a stock-

holder in both the Fremont Hotel and the Horseshoe Club in

To and toe that cole cio

Las Vegas, Nevada.

Investigation has established the fact aff

that there was a very close relationship between COLE and

ASSAS

JOSEPH STACHER.

As a result of investigation conducted by

the Los Angeles Office, COLE was indicted and convicted on

two counts of violation of the Obstruction of Justice Statute

in United States District Court, Los Angeles, on June 12, 1963.

COLE's attorneys appealed the conviction to the

Circuit Court of Appeals, 9th Circuit; on March 16, 1964,

the 9th Circuit affirmed

the conviction as to both counts.

On April 6, 1964, COLE's attorneys filed a petition to stay

the mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals and have since

filed a petition to the United States Supreme Court for a

writ

of certiorari.

EDWARD

LEVINSON

On March 29, 1964, LA I'-209 advised SAM. B= PARKER

that he had heard a rumor to the effect that JOSEPH

STACHER

had

told EDWARD LEVINSON that LEVINSON OweS STACHER approxi-

mately two million dollars and that if LEVINSON did not come

up with the money in the immediate future, there would be a

"contract" let for LEVINSON.

Investigation in the past has indicated that LEVINSON

was possibly fronting for STACHER in both the Fremont Hotel

and

the Horseshoe Club in Las Vegas. The Las Vegas Office

on

5

CONFIDENTIAS

DocId: 32329932 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

IA 92-386

- NevAdA

March 31, 1964,

alvised that the Horseshoe Club had DAFIDENTIAL

purchased by BENNY

BINION and it was indicated that some

and possibly all of the down payment on the club had been

placed in escrow pending a review of the books of the club

by the IRS in order to determine what if any taxes might be

enot deterine mate

due to IRs from the LEVINSON group. The Las Vegas Office

indicated that various rumors had been received during the

past month indicating that LEVINSON "was in trouble" and that

JOSEPH STACHER was mad at LEVINSON inasmuch as STACHER felt

that LEVINSON had not furnished him all the money due from

the operation of the Fremont Hotel and the Horseshoe Club.

On March 25, 1964, LA T-285 advised that on this

date he had heard that EDWARD LEVINSON, President of the

Fremont Hotel in Las Vegas, had in the past borrowed $135, 000.00

from "the outfit"

and that later LEVINSON had borrowed

Additionally, source stated that he

had heard that LEVINSON had been ordered by JOSEPH STACHER tO

sell his interest in the Horseshoe Club in Las Vegas which

source stated he understands has already taken place. Also,

source. stated that he has heard that LEVINSON has been ordered

by STACHER to sell his points in the Fremont Hotel, Las Vegas,

Nevada.

Sour ce surmised that if LEVINSON sold his points ins

the Horseshoe Club and the Fremont Hotel, that this would

virtually eliminate LEVINSON from the Las Vegas gambling

picture.

On March 5, 1964, LA I-386 advised SA THOMAS H. AIT

of the following information:

Source stated that the money for the sale of the

Horseshoe Club and casino had already changed hands, although

the paper work concerning this sale had not been completed.

Source stated that recently EDWARD LEVINSON had gone to the

Beverly Wilshire Hotel in 'Los Angeles to meet with JOSEPH

STACHER and in order to deliver the money for the sale from

the Horseshoe Club. According to source, after this transacion

the money then went into Mexico; however, source was unable to

provide any additional information concerning the transfer of

Funds from STACHER into Mexico.?

Source further advised that LEVINSON and STACHER were

at odds over two

million dollars which STACHER claimed belonged

6

CONFIBENTIAL.

DocId: 32329932 Page 3

---

