# docid-32325422

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-90035-10319

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 122-2424-NR

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE

FROM:

DOJ/CRIM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 02/17/1960

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE: 06/10/1998

STATUS

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

COMMENTS:

LET, REFERRED TO DOJ

DocId: 32325422 Page 1

---

## Page 2

" Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

February 17, 1960

Honorable J. Edgar Hoover

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Department of Justice

Washington; D. Go

Dear Mr. Hoover;

On February 10, 1960, Edward F. Weinheimer was found

guilty of eight counts of perjury committed before a Grand

Jury in the Distriet of Columbia.

In the investigation and preparation of this case we

were afforded invaluable assistance from Supervisor James R.

Adams whose cooperation was highly praised by the attorneys

who prosecuted the case.

the conduct of the trial Special Agent Edward W.

Pernypacker of the Washington Field Office testified as a wit-

ness for the Goverrment and his demeanor as a witness is a

tribute to the Bureau.

Special Agent Pennypacker also sat at

the counsel table during the trial and was an invaluable aid

in the preparation of the case.

I wish that you would also convey my appreciation to

the many other agents in the field who participated in the

investigation of this case and whose efforts made possible

this successful prosecution.

In particular, I wish to com

mend Special Agent Damon W. Pitcher of the Pittsburgh, Field

Office for his efficient and expeditious investigation.

Sincerely,

AL COPY FILED IN EE 2 Ma

MALCOLM R. WILKEY

Assistant Attorney General

128-2424-

NOT RECORDED

145 MAR 1 1960

AMAR 3

1960

DocId: 32325422

Page 2

---

