# docid-32397425

## Page 1

Date: 12/17/98

Page:

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

a0g 104-10433-10108

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO :

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS:

DIRECTOR, DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE

CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION,

PROMINENT THEOLOGIAN'S CONDEMNATION OF CIA

05/28/69

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

OPEN IN FULL POSTPONED lL FuLL

12/17/98

JFK-RH19:F09 1998.12.17.14:30:36:466128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53216

DocId: 32397425

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Chice, Personzel Security Division, C5

Dirccior,

Darestle Contact Service

FERRE, TelS P

28 Miny 1969

Proatuent Ineologian's Condencation of CiA

1. Diring an sadress at the Southern Baptist Convention of State Student

Depritaris hold at St- Louis, Missouri, Suoject, prominent theologlen ind

oblicist of Andover lesion Insological Seminary, now associated rita looster

¡Ondo) College, expressed his cancero over the grong fairer of the CIA lI

the US. As an enample, he sald that the Agency vas "airectly responsible"

•jor the assassinations of Marüis Wither King end Serator Robert Kensedy, and

nad been involved in the death of Exesident Jons F. Kennedy.

As his rationatization for the King assassinetion, Subject claired

that the Joinson Aatinistration had becoue concerned that king would lead

enotber "nassive narch on Washingion" during an election year, and therefore

ordered the Agancy to purrier ring. Ile also said that the Agency: tes quite

cragitaed ven their "brother service," Scotland Jard, had arrested tealr

hired assassin, Jases Earl Rav: after CiA had believed he had kan safely

spirited abroad.

His rationalizations for the other agsassinationg vere not

gives.

subjeci Is an onriced congregatlonal minister uho has a fil iro

Haivarã..

3. Because of his proninence-he 15 listed in'mao's lino,"- Subject's

Ineries apparently nere not challenged by the Baptist student directors no

appeared to be quite concemned about the charges.. These directors. are

zesponsible for the Southem Deptisi activities on all university and college

campuses in indir respective states, prinertly southero and border siates.

1.

Any questions pertaining to this nerozand should be directed to

Ext.

251

APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Date 237e61978

HH 53216

DocId: 32397425

Page 2

---

