# docid-32296797

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10218-10073

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-2173-143

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TITLE:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: KISSINGER. HENRY A.

DATE: 10/29/1976

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT: LOZANO, HERNAN RICARDO, CONTACT, LEG, CAR, VISA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/12/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32296797

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ReLeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREW

514/98

AZASON: 1.5

(C,d;)

DECLASSIFY ON: X

160

JFR

Honorable Henry A.

Kissinger

The Secretary of

State

Washington,

D. C.

20520

1-

Mr.

Ro

G. Held

1 - Mr:

J.

1 - Mr.

D.

B.

Adams

W.

Moore

1 - Mr. W.

K.

DeBruler

(Attn: T. M. Johnson)

October 29, 1976

1 - Mr:

J. A. Mintz

1 - Mr.

R.

1 - Mr:

T.

J. Gallagher

W. Leavitt

1 : Mr.

J. Go

Deegan

1 - Mr.

R.

K.

1 - Mr.

J.

chargue

P. Graham

CUBINA A

Dear Mr.

Secretary:

Reference is made to my letter dated October 20, 1976,

relating to information indicating

that the name of Special

Agent Joseph S. Leo of this Bureau, Legal Attache, Caracas,

Venezuela, was found in

the possession of one of the individuals

arrested as a suspect in the loss of Cubina Airlines Flight

Number 455 in the Caribbean Sea on October 6, 1976.

For your further information and assistance, there

is set forth below additional facts reported to this Headquarters

on october 26, 1976, by Legac Leo.

Hernan Ricardo Lozano and Freddy Lugo,

citizens of

Venezuela,,

were

arrested by the police of Trinidad and Tobago

October 7, 1976,

on suspicion of implication

" in the crash

of the cuban-operated aircraft oft the coast of Barbados on

October 6, 1976.

Hernan Ricardo Lozano came to the attention

of Legat,

Caracas,

during the summer of 1975 when he contacted

Legat on behalf of the then Director,

Venezuelan Directorate

of Intelligence and Preventive Services (DISIP), Dr: Pedro

tortes Agudo for the purpose of assisting in expediting the

issuance/oi a visa to a family member of Dr. Torres Agudo.S)

RicardoLozano returned shortly thereafter to express his

braces, to approsinately three other occasions relating to visa

for that assistance and he recontacted Legat,

Assoc. Dir.

information.

In December, 1975, Ricardo Lozano telephoned Legat

on 1 and exterided to ntu a social invitation, which as dealted. (o

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servile

Classifed by SR3 Ele/TAR

Ext. Affair

Fin. & Pe

MHN

Helse

REC- 13

2-27240-

Gen. Inv.l

012)

Tent:

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Eval.

428/94-

AT 7080R

MARTON CONTAINEL

DANDIES UNCLASSIZIAD

DECERT WHERE SHONd

OTHERNEST

DE-21

SEE NOTE PAGE 4

Rec. Mgnt..

Spec. Inv.

JUD

Training

Telephone Rm. _

CHM

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

DocId: 32296797

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Honorable Mehry A. Kissinger

Ricardo Lozano was not seen or heard

I from again by Legat until

September 30, 1976, when he appeared at the Legat Office, Caracas,

at which time he requested assistance

for himself to obtain a

visa to the U. B.

On that occasion, Ricardo Lozano claimed that

he had a photographic assignment in Jamaica for the magazine

"Vision!

and that he planned a two-day stopover in Pierto Rico

before returning to Venezuela.

On his visa application

Ricardo Lozano indicated his occupation as a graphics reporter

and industrial investigator.

He listed his employer as

Investigaciones Comerciales & Industriales (ICI) and,

connection, he produced a letter of employment signed by the

owner, Luis Posada Carpiles. A visa was issued to Ricardo Lozano

on October L, 1976. Mernan Ricardo Lozano

was never a paid

informant or

source of the Legat, Caracas, Offices CalS)

Luis Posada Carities has been Identified as a lormer

and tanished i prive teet at decen

Agchey In 1974

Legat Leo

stated thac he had very slight contact with PosadaLeven when

Posada vas an official of DIsIP]S)legat Leo and Posada met

FoReign

perhaps no more than three times since 1971.

On June 10, 1976,

Posada appeared at the legat ottice to ast what, it any,

interest

the FBI had in Juan Carlo Bordoni/ Posada was thereupon told

that Bordoni was a fugitive from justice and that efforts were

being made to extradite Bordoni to the U. S. from Venezuela to

answer charges of bank fraud in connection with the collapse of

the Franklin National Bank.

Posada stated that in that case he

wished to advise Legat leo that Bordoni had hired two ICI

operatives

to act as

armed bodyguards in his home. That infor

nation was subsequently provided to Venezuelan police who were

involved in the expected arrest of Bordon.

It is pointed

out that luis Posada Carriles was never g

paid informant or

source of the Legat, Caracas, Office

Legat Leo further reported

that Freddy lugo, the

second Venezuelan citizen arrested in connection with captioned

maiter, is not known to him.

Venezuelan press reports identify

Lugo as a journalist and photographer.

At the time of his

arrest,

Lugo reportedly had on his person a piece of paper

bearing the name and telephone number of Legat leo.

It is

not

known

to Locat Leo how his name come into the possession of

• Lugo.

(eurther, lugo has never been a paid informant

source of the

Legat, Caraces,

u. 2 -

SECRET

12-2173-143

DocId: 32296797

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Honorable Henry A. Kissinger

The police of Trinidad and Tobago made available Xerox

copies of papers and documents which they found among the personal

effecte of Hernan Ricardo Lozano and Freddy Lugo. An examination

of those papers and documents revealed that it appeared that the

plece of paper bearing Ma. Leo's name was taken from a notebook

consisting" of approximately 30 pages which was found in the

possession of Hernan Ricardo Lozano.

The names

o more than 170

individuals were inscribed in that notebook.

и)

With regard to Ricardo Morales Navarrete, Legat Leo

pointed out that he is currently employed as a Division Chief

of DISIP®

Special Investigations Unit, Venesuclan Ministry of moralen

Morales Navarrete was formerly

Affairs, under the immediate supervision of Orlando Garcia Vasquez,

Minister Counsellor®

Morales Navarrete arrived in Venezuela

from Miami, Florida, in approaimately late 1974, having been

summoned by Orlando

Garcia Vasquez, a confidant of

Carlos Andres Perez, President of Venezuela. Legat Leo maintained

contact with both Morales Navarrete and Garcia Vasquez in

connection with official matters.

Those individuals arranged the

arrest and deportation of several fugitives wanted by federal

and local law enforcement authorities in the U. sze

Legat Leo has advised that neither Ricardo Morales

Navarrete

nox Orlando Garcia Vasquez were ever paid informants.

or sources of the Legat, Caracas,

office

It is pointed out,

however,

that Ricardo Morales Navarrete was. a paid informant

our Miami Office at various times between 196l and 1975, reporting

information of

a general criminal nature as well as information!

involving both pro- and anti-Castro activities,

With regard to the matter of my sending an

Inspector from fBI Headquarters to Caracas, Venezuela, to

interview Legat Leo, previously referred to herein, I have

decided to hold such travel in abeyance because of the existing

of(a)

SFCRED

2-2173-143

DocId: 32296797 Page 4

---

