# docid-32278257

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act Of 1092, 141 USC 2107

Notes als DATE: 11-24-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10045-10124

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

: 62-109060-1ST NR 5252

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/12/1967

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

GARRISON, JAMES, INVEST, GRAND JURY SUBPOENA, KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

08/18/1998

UPDATE DATE:

01/18/2001

STATUS

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32278257

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination, Records Collection Act of

11992-444-157

Hated (Rev.

BATE* 11-14-2017

Wr.: Tolson.

Mr. Delonch

Me Mohr.

Mr. Wick

Casper

ütr. Gallahan

' FBi.

Mr.

Conrad

Date:

5/12/57

Mr.

NIr.

Gale

Transmit the following in

Mr.

Mr.

Sullivar

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plairivext or code) jo

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Pole. Room

Miss Hnlmos

Lies Gandy-

2102

TO :

FROM :

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-933)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (92-50)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NEY ORLEANS DIVISION:

WEEKLY SUMMARY

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOIN FITZGERALD KENNEDY;

DALLAS

DOV1U323 22, 1963

MISCELLANEOUS INFOFMATION CONCERNING

NEW ORLEANS FILE 89-69

On 5/10/67, SA REGIS L. KENNEDY answered the

subpoena which had been issued

by the Orleaus Parish

Grand jury, which is conducting inquiry into the

assassination of the late President JOKN FITZGERALD

KENNEDY.

At the tine of SA KENNEDY's appearance,

Covernment attorneys immediately made motions to quash

the subpoena, which notions were taken under

advisemont

by Judge BERNARD J. BAGGETT.

Judge BAGGETT is to rule:

on these notions on 5/16/67.

JOSEPH MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETECRING

NEW ORLEANS FELE 92-320

T.

NO 1457-C-II advised that on 5/10/67,

tro

agents of IRS called at the residence of JOSEPH MARCELIO,

allegedly making inquiry concerning the j& J Realty Co.,

Wanen is owned by MARCELIO.

C

According to NO 1457-C-TE,

62

109060

NOT

RECORDED-

170 MAY 16 1967

12

MAY I5 1967

LED TI

2

- Bureau (RIC)

- New Orleans

MAK : po

(5)

56 MAY 2 219

Approved:

Sent

"M.:

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32278257

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F

• Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 111 USC 210T

NO 92-50

MAX: 00

HITS. JOSEPH MARCELLO refused to discuss

the matter with the

representatives of IRS and instructed then to contact CARLOS

MARCELLO for any information which they might desire.

VINCENT MARCELIO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

NEW ORLEANS FILE 92-557

who resigned after his

investigated by the JPSO and ISP during the sumer of 1966,

opened a new night spot, "The Club Pisano," on Airline Ewy.,

Metairie, La.

It was aoted that: VINCENT MARCELLO, vas at

the night spot during a cousiderable period of time during

the evening and,

from the activity and attention shown to

MARCELLO DY IMBORNONE, it appeared as 11 MARCELLO had sone

type of control of this new club.

Information has been previously received from

infornants and IPSO Vice Squad Officers that IMBORNONE

has, in the recent past, become closely aligned with the

MARCELLO brothers.

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRÄM

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

NEW ORLEANS FILE 92-50

NO 1296-C

0D 4/26/67, NO :1496-C advised that recent arrests

have been made at various Bossier City night clubs on 4/17/67,

relative to gaabling activity.

As a result of these arrests,

a meeting was held by Chief of Police CATHEY, Bossier City,

nith commanding officers of the Bossier City PD and the result

of this meeting was that the charges

against the individuals

arrested vere disnissed. Intorant reported that Major

CEORGE NATTIN allegedly advised the arrested parties that

open gambling would be permitted on

the Strid, which would

include all forns of ganbling except slot machines. The

Major reportodly advised that gambling vould be allowed so

long as he received his cut.: Informant further stated that

his

inforation was that only Major NATTIN, Capt. SAM TUTCH

and the brother of Major NATTIN, WAYLON, would receive a cut

fron the gambling activity.

:2

DocId: 32278257

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 92-50

MAK: pd

NO 1416-c

NO 1416-C advised that Attorney MICHAEL MAROUN,

Shreveport, ia., who is CARLOS MARCELIO's lawyer in that

vicirity, advised him that he would be handling the "deal"

to finance the opening of the Sawyer Downs Race Track in

Bossier City, La.

Intorant was of the opinion that if this

were the case there mould be "Syndicate" money involved at

the track and in all probability the majority of this noney

would be the MARCELlOS.

DIXIELAND PARK, INC.

ANDREY L. ERWIN, interin president of Dixieland

Park, Inc., announced that plans were being formulated to

begin inmediate construction of a six million dollar race

track on a 235 acre track of land in St. Tammany Parish,

as a result of the successful raising of two million

doilars by the Dixieland Park Corporation.

has given assurances to the Corporation' of their opening

racing dates for the ney track, which has a target date for

completion set for 4/1/68.

According to ERVIN, it is expected

that this track will run 50 days prior to and 50 days after

the copletion of the New Orleans Fair Grounds' racing

season.

3

DocId: 32278257

Page

---

