# docid-32309807

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

124-10301-10073

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

10/26/1961

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

IID, BKG, EMP, TRA, ASSOC, POLIT ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32309807

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

PATE: 11-14-2017

,3 .

2-14.23-

BE 200

I*

KE31 517A 7362

REC- 4

NL LAI

1 fir, belmont

SECRETA

ALL INFORMATION COWARED. EVaNg

Sullivan

HEREIN IS UNCL. SSIFIED

Get ros

30, 106%

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWNI

Donahoe

2198 - 17. Mossburg

OTHERWISE

CLASSIE SEES SENSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1

MICHENAN, ISTAGE AND B

HO0& 0NI0038-0,33

in aio poot, novised Cas

ubs ho periotore stes

I1 DE!

a blic notations cong

35 10

2081000

11888

Classiees In

Derlassify

284,737

03 Sta

MAILED 30

007 3 01961

COMM-FBI

Repr

T'olson.

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach V

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room -

Ingram _

Gandy -

DocT

• 32309807

Page 2

Ockober

Koroal is recesos a

sono don in 1r

Asstravlo to

made sos bo

the Tiennete

1E00G

top cher

neutes

mate enso

She torte it n

LOWENS DUTI

rothes

B0L0/142

1e could

Sao Franslaco

arcoldent ed

Salmont Boto

traveling

& call bo stander su

DC1 3A

SECRETIR

information contained

in our letter

Attorney, teneral vas obtained throug

568-59

' at the Isracli

Enbassy,

Hashington,

tas. lour lctter to the

(S)

SBD : did

(10)

Attomney

General is

classitied

"Confidential

to protect our source in

this natter.

since

SOUTCC

is providing

date or

3?

continuing value.

TELETYPE UNT CENT

MOTIAL

1961

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

The Astorney General

indicated chec

SECRET

Angeles

and be yas

Ange los y

The above is fos yous

1 - So to Jeneral

2 Assistant Att

Astras Artery Seared

SECRET?

2106k1

DocId: 32309807

Page 3

---

## Page 4

ReleaseqWder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(41 USC 2107 Note).

Tr. Tolson

DATE: 11-14-2017

Belmont

Mohr_

Callahan

FBI

Conrad.

AIRTEL

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-1423)

SAC, WEO (105-26269) (C)

15.. Evans

Date:

10/26/61

fir Malone

Ir. Rosen,

Lir. Sullar

(Type in plain text or code)

Ir. Tavel

Wit. 'Dotter

Pale. Room

(Priority or Methods

Mr. Ingram

ALL INFORMATICA COREANED

Miss Gandy

-1

HEREIN IS UNGL

EXOSPT WHERe

OTHERWISE

IRVING

DAVIDSON

RA - NICARAGUA, ISRAEL AND ECUADOR

(00: WFO)

27-98

CLASSIFIED BY 31068 SUD ISR

Enclosed for the Bureau are seven copies and

to SE of a letterhead memo captioned and dated as

above.

The source of the information is

568-s7/(s)

A copy is being furnished SF in view of

the contemplated

travel of JAMES HOFFA.

A copy is not being furnished Los

Angeles as there is no indication that HOFFA is to visit LA.

The letterhead memo is classified 'Confidential"

since data reported could reasonably result in identification

of an informant of continuing value and compromise the future

effectiveness thereof.

ENCLOSUR

Bureau (Encls. 7) ines

JAMES RIDDLE

1

San

Francisco (Encl. 1) (Info) (RM)

2-1423-82

3 - WFO

(1 - 62-8400 JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA)

- 105-524

EMBASSY OF ISRAELS, REG4,

8Z NOV 3 "

MPC/ bm

(8)

/ Copy detachid!

1. Destraged 4/16161

Dalend

Plat.

AIRTEL

Classified by spr-=

Declassity on: DROIR

274,731

(JFK)

C. C. Wick

SECRET

31

Approved:

Sent

- M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

UNRECORDED

DocId: 32309807 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE: 11-14-2017

vipe

Dusc 7107 Hote).

49r. Tolson

Mr.

Belmor

CLASSIFIED BY

5668

SLD/1SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

12.4-91

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL NFOR"S"PY CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNCLAZSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SEDREL.

ans

Malone

WASHINGTON &

Mr. tosen

Mr.

Sullivai

October

26,

Mr. Tigtter

Tele. -Boom

Mr. Ingram.

Miss, Candy-

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

REGISTRATION ACT - NICARAGUA,.

ISRAEL AND ECUADOR

On October 26, 1961, a confidential informant, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

"that

I, Irving Davidson, a public relations consultant who is

registered with the Department of Justice as an Agent of

(Nicaragua, Israel and Ecuador, was in contact with an

individual known only to the informant as Mr. Shapek (phonetic)

Informant advisedYthat Mrs

X Shapek was visiting the

Israeli Embassy in Washington,

on this date and that (S)

Davidson had reported (to him

JFIL

France, specifically

in Chateau-rue.

According to Davidson,

ther job was given to

• a French firm at $35 more»'

The point

thät Davidson wanted to make was whether or not it was

desirable to go further in this matter and he is of the öpinion

it would not be best to carry it further, so as not to

embarrass the Kennedy Administration.

The informant stated

that Davidson has in mind some plan whereby he can get the

material on this matter together and furnish it to Bobby

Kennedy attorney General Robert F. Kennedy) through Jack

(possibly Jack Anderson, syndicated columnist associated with

Mx, Drew Pearson, also a syndicated columnist)

Davidson advised that Jack will

take him to Bobby

Kennedy and they can talk it over with Mr. Kennedy, and

perhaps this will result in some business for the Israelis

bavidson stated that he planned to do It this way rathei

than through Drew Pearson and requestedkthat Shapek collecti

+ to

10/50/61

DADWhite

-82

This document contoing neither.

the FBI. It is the property of

not conchains of it CREN

the FBI and is loaned lo your agency:

Ii and its conionie are not to be

diatribed

agoney.

ENCLOSURE,

DocId: 32309807

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act. of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL.

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

Mr. Davidson is traveling to San Francisco on

Tuesday (October 31, 1961) with Mr. James Riddle Hoffa,:

President of the Teamsters Union, and will be staying at the

Fairmont Hotel at San Francisco.

Davidson indicated he will

also be going to los Angeles and was of the opinion

that

Davidson and Shapek could meet in Los Angeles

DISCAMIMATION TOM

A.G

SECRETI

- 2-

PATIENT

! DocId: 32309807

Page 6

---

## Page 7

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMFINAL

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

In Reply. Please Refer t0

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

octobes 26, 1061

GISTRAZION

1.: ARVENG DAVIDSON

ISRAEL AND DOUBOR

i Cetoboz

20, 1061, o confidential informant, who

has furnished rollable intonation in the past, adviced that

T. Laving Dovidson, a pubise solatione consultant tho is

registered watts the Dopastnent of Justice an an Agent of

Torsol and Scurdos

contact with on.

only to

informant

Intormunt advised Shat

Shapes eas

visitsog

Earaoll Sabassy

do flashington, D.

this date and

Davadoon had reported to hin

(shapes that the keroeles

got d

don]" In regard

the plane asantchance dess

Franco, epe018ieally

,An Chateau-209.

According to Davideon,

tho job gas givan to

a French Sazu a€ 030 nore.

The polat

that Davidson

to make nas theyas as not it was

desirable to

go further in this matter and ho is of the

• opalon

10 would not bo best

to corty it further, so as not to

onbarrass tho Konnody Aininistration.

the informant stated

that Davidson bad

in mind sono plan thereby he can got the

material on this matter togothor and furnish it to bobby

Bonnedy (attornoy Conoral lohort 7. Mennedy) through Jacks

(posalbly Jack Andorson, syndicated columnies associated with

Pearson, 0180

• cyndicated colmist).

Davidson advised Shet

Back will take him to Bobby

kennesy one thoy can tara st over with l hennesy. and

perhapa chas vast rasuAt-sargono businose for the lorcelle.

nevideon stated that to plained to do it. this way rather

then through brow boation and revuested ahat hanes coltec

tho Inntorial in

this unttes so that it could be done 2n

(4)

12/8/02

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SAD/KER

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

1-8-91

Classified by

Declassily on: /oOR 2 94,137

This decument contains neither

recommendatiens

nor

conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is locined to your agency:

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32309807

Page 7

---

## Page 8

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collegtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JAPANES

REVING DAVIDSON

un Davideon 1e trezoling

San Ironetaco on

Jones middle Horse,

President of the Tematers Unton, and mild be esaying at ene

Soirmont Botol at Son Iranciesoe

Davicson Ancientod he os28

also ba going to los Angolesand uns of the opinion

zavidson and Bhapeli could noot is los Angoles

TS)

SECRET

CCAFIDENTIAL

8101-100.-93

DocId: 32309807

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination :

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONEDENTIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

CASSATION

ACS

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

310N27

detobes 30, 1051

LAVING B6V:D007

HISEASE AN

Ca. October

20, 10eze

a confidentloa laformant,

bas furnished soliable balontation an cae page,

advised

1, Toving Davidson, a pubtio solations consultant who is

sogietered with the Departeens

01 Justice ns an Agent of

Vicerogus,

and Acunde?

Agon in

contact with an

todividual

(21007108106

Antonenst

shaper vas

Dabneey

Machington.

on this

• and that t

Davidson bod roported (to him (Shapel. that the leraolae(S

"bon Goal"

cesa to

• tho plane maintenesce does

Erasco, specificassy

da Chatens 2u6•

Accordias

to Bavadoon,

the Job so given to & French firm at

83, 1020e

The point

that Barsagog

Do mono

vas shother or set 18 mas

dostreble to

funther a than tatter

and ho is of the opiaton

39 mouse Bot

to caspy At furthos, so as not to

cabarrass

• Adalosetration.

to intomant atated

Caot Davidson bao 20

sind soso plan

chereby he can got che

material on this asster

together and furnish it to Bobby

Kennedy

(Attorney

Conoral Sohoxt to

Konnady? through Jack

syadscated

coluanist

gesociated with

Be. Crow Pennson, also o syndicated colutist)

Davidson advised that

tano ban

Lennest

nod they can

porhope this eill result so eone busanose

i for the Isr0011S.

Davidson stnted

Shat he pitmod to do it. tate mog rathes

throunh Dred Possson end zecucsted, that aberet collect

shermotorial ta dato tatter so

could

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_1,6

(3F9

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FEI.

It in the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed

outside your agency.

SpS MAC/SR

12-8-94

(JFK)

Classified by

Declassity one OAR 214,231

CONSENTA

DocId: 32309807

Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AI

1. IRVIAC DAVISSON

uro Davideon ds trovoling

to Ben Froncisco

Tuzedog (Deto790° 40404)

with tro Jones Riddle 80110,

prosident of laters

Union, and will to stoying at

Falmost Notes at don Francssco.

Davidaon Andicated ho will

Davidson and Chapels) could /most in los Aurolos

(S)

CONDEN

M01-80023

DocId: 32309807

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

UMENTAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

NEURANSON GUNTAINEUBUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

"ISIFIED

WASHINGTON 25, D. G.

pi!:

HEREIN IS UNCI

EXCEPT WHERE iOWN

coteber

80, 1061

OTHERWISE

203020

TVENO DAVIDEON

ISTAN

do getsuss

confidential infomant,

Lan on tie 101n12 a Dan advised int

1. Baving Dovsdaon, a pubise relations consultant uto se

segas tered

vath the Departen; of Juetlee as an Ageat os

ascazegug.

1szne3 and Deuedor won

sodivional

in contest with an

Imova only to tho

shapes (phosetse)]

Internat advised Chat

shaps was visiting

Coroots Sabassy

So westone to on this date Bre castes

Davidson had reported Be hin

Chapok) that the Taraellel sT

09t a

"Dua dool" ln rosand to tha plane maintenenco deal

• 3g Chateat-rue:

Aecoraing to Davidson,

Che Job non saven to a Wrench fam at 850 more.

Tho polat

that

savadsos vanted

to salte vs bother on not it vas

desirable to so

Further 1a

this netter and he as of the opinion

Se could not ho best to corry 1$ furthor, so as not to

entarass the Kennedy Adntalatzation.

Tho intornune steted

that Darkason

le sind come plan gheeby he can sot the

natosal on this natter togethor and turnich at to Bobby

Lennody: (Atsoraoy

• General Bobont 7 Konnody) Chrough Jach

(posnibly Jach Ancorson, syudicates columist assonated with

103 - 0200

M007800, ai60

o syndicated coluniet) d

Davidson

advised that dach will take hia to Bobby

Konroug and they con

porhapo thas will rousat in some busanese

Davideon atated that ho platnod to do tt. this: way rathor

tong through trow fedron and sequestodi het Theres collectS)

torantossal fin thie matter so

• that 40 coule

done in

SR

chaild by,

Declassify e One 215/231

10/8/97

CLASSIFIED BY 5468 SAD/PSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1p60.

JFk

This document contains neither

recommondations

nor conclusions of

the FBI.

I: is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32309807

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination :

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CANEDTATAR

I..

IRVING

MALI

Hi o

Davidson 1s -noveling

to ana Francsaco

Tussday (October 32. 195%)

wath

Ne. James niedle Holta,

President of the Toasters

unlon, ond wiid be staging at tho

Falsesat Hotel at San Francisco.

Davidoon Andicated he will

also be

giac

Angeler/ ond was of the optator

Shat

naviason and hape as

not in los angelon

JANINA

CAN IDENTIAL

DocId: 32309807

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFOSMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

SECRETI

OTHERWISE

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

Cacobes

20, 1061

IRVING DAVIDSON

REOISTRADIOT

"ISRAEL

en Octodds

co. beca. a conscentaas andomant, wao

advased

that

I. Taving Davidson, o public poletions concultent who te

registered with the Doppetent of Justice as an Agont of

Nacarago,

Terrot and cuador fons

indistouns

contact with an

town only

• to the

Anzorsons as

Shapers (phonotie)

Informant advised Shat

Shapel

visitiag

dato and

that y

(Chapo."/ that the

loreolle

got a

"Dun dent" in regard to

tho piano maintenace.

Franco, epoclaically

1n Chateau-ruo:

According

to Davidson,

the job ens given to & Wrench fina at 639 mor0.

The point

that Davatoon ranted to nako mao chother or not 1€ wan

densrable

• surther in this motter and be is of the opinion

10 could not

be beat to compy

10 furthes, so as not to

embassess the Bennedy Admindstration®

The inforanno stated

thot Devideos

hao ta eins sono plan

thereby he can got the

mntosand on this notten sogethor and fumies at to sobby

Fenaody (Attorney

Conoral Bobort P. Kennedy) through Jack

(cossibly Jools Aaderson:

syudiested columist assoolated sith

alco

cypdteated

coltanact)

Devidson advised thet

dach

9222 tate

hận to Bobby

Kennedy and they cas

tall

perhape this will seout in sono business for the Israelis.

Davideca ntated that he picnned to do 1% this way rethos

then

through bron Pearson

#requested that Chopel collecti

the/material

i An

this satu

that 1t could

done in

the

mag

indieated y

5 & MACHISE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X46

Classified by

Declassify on OADR 284,137

SHERET

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

TIMENTIAL

DocId: 32309807

Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination :

Records Collection Act. of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET,

JANA

1. IBUING 24850

Me o

Davidson is traveling to Son Pranesaco on

Tuesday (Octobar 31, 1001) wich Mr. Janon Bodie Rosse,

rauront notes as bon trangs

president of the Tonsietensio

Daviesco Badicated ho will

nico ho potag to los Angelos lund vas of the opa

DACE

tha c

naviason lind Chapel omnid noot an los Angeles

FIBED SECRET,

JATIONAB

CONEIDENTIAL

#0f-100k3

DocId: 32309807

Page 14

---

