# docid-32293089

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-13365

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-81285-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

-

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/19/1959

REW, DEFECTION, ASSOCIATED PRESS, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45984

DocId: 32293089

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-41 {Rev. 2-9-59)

DECODED COPY

XXX

Tolson

Mr. McC

Mr. Mohi e

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen .

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy

Radio

Teletype

URGENT

10-19-59

TO DIRECTOR

INFO SAC NEW YORK

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCLASSINIE

ATE 1-9-94 BISPS Mactude

FROM SAC CLEVELAND

191515

(57K)1

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER, INTERNAL SECURITY-R. CLEVELAND ORIGIN.

MR. I

ADVISED CLEVELAND OFFICE THIS DATE THAT

SUBJECT'S STORY HAS BEEN PICKED UP BY ASSOCIATED PRESS AND THE

QUOTE CLEVELAND NEWS END QUOTE. HE HAS BEEN CONTACTED BY

CLEVELAND REPRESENTATIVE OF AP AND CLEVELAND NEWS. AP SAYS

STORY CAME FROM THEIR MOSCOW BUREAU.

TAIN SAYS AM

WITH PRESS THAT SUBJECT WAS EMPLOYEE BUT THAT RAND DEVELOPMENT

CORP. HAS NO INFO CONCERNING HIS DEFECTION AND WILL MAKE NO

STATEMENT UNTIL THEY HEAR FROM JAMES H. RAND WHO IS PRESENTLY

IN MOSCOW.

HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SUBJECT'S WIFE

AND SHE STATES THAT HER POSITION WILL BE THAT ALTHOUGH SUBJECT

IS OVERDUE TO RETURN SHE HAS NO OFFICIAL INFO CONFERNING HIS

ACTIVITY TO DATE. THE IDENTITY OF

SHOULD BE CONCEALED

IN ANY CORRESPONDENCE FOR DISSEMINATION.

RECEIVED:

12:03 PM RADIO

REC: 10

105-1123524

1:07 PM CODING UNIT

OTHER 4

Lia Belmont)

18 OCT 2'7 1950

de-Brapeg

110ยบ

58 NOV

SEX

21959

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitab

araphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system

NN 45984 DocId: 32293089 Page 2

---

