# docid-32106383

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10004-10257

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 201-289248

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Laser 10 53199 Date:

06-05-2017

January 22, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 1

Reason'for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponement # 1 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: See document

Release Date: 10/2017

Postponement # 2 (Page 4):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: See document

Release Date: 10/2017

Board Review Completed: 12/13/95

HH 53199

DooId: 32106383

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Date:

01/30/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10004-10257

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

DEPUTY DIRECTOR, PLANS

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, SUSPECTED ASSASSIN OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

DATE

11/23/63

PAGES

7

SUBJECTS

TRANSCRIPT

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

06/15/93

OSW10: V10B 1993.06.15.16:11:13:400000:

[RI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 53199 DooId: 32106383

Page 2

---

## Page 3

ener

23 Nonenher 1863

TO:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attention: Mr. 8. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director, Plans

SUBJECT:

Lee H. OSWALD, Suspected Assassin of President Kennedy

1. Reference is made to CIA Out Teletype Nunber 84915, dated

23 November 1963.

Forvarded as Enclosure A 10 a trenscript of the 28 Beptember

1963 telephone call reported in referenced teletype and of a 1. October

1963 phone call to the Soviet Embassy by a man who identified himself

aB Lee OSWALD. It is noted thet the "North American" who participated

in the firot call is the same man who identified himself as Lee OSWALD

in the second.

3°

Forwarded as Inclosure B le s transcript of three phone calls

made on 27 September 1963, one made on 1 October 1963 and one made on

3 October 1963•

Voice campsrisons indicated that the "Worth American"

who participated in several of these coversations is probably the

person who identified himself as Lee OSWALD on 1 October 1963.

Our tentative conclusion from reading these transcripts is

that OSHALD went to the Soviet Embassy hoping to get a vise to go to

the Soviet Union and live and that, falling to get it quickly, he

tried to get a Cuben transit visa so he would go to Cubs end wait for

the granting of the Soviet vies.

This is also the conclusion reached

by Silvia Duren, the Mexican national employee of the Cuban Embassy

who dealt with OSWALD.

Document Number

102-574

CScI-3/778,826

Attachneats:

for FOlA Review on

A. 28 Sep 68 transcript

B.

transcript of 3 colts 27 Sept,

1 on 1 Oct and I on 3 Cct

WH/3/T.Ward: jz

Distribution:

201-287248

25 November 1963

Ost - Addressee

1-SR/0/WH/Langelle PROJECT: NO PROJECI

1 - 201 folder

1 - CWH/3/Mexico

1 - CILIA

1 - WH MEXI

I--CIR&A

1 - WH/Keports

1 - CI/OPS/WH - Hughes

Excluded from aston. beh

dounprodins and

NW 53199 DocId: 32106383

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Rets De.

See MEXI 1033 i

to fuele reput

1. FOLLOWING FULI TRANSCRIPIS AVAILABLE.

2. ON 28 SEPTEMBER 1963.

E PHONE TAP REPORTED TOL: STARTS WOMAN

OUTSIDE, FROM THE CUBAN CONSULATE, WHO SAYS THAT THERE IN HER CONSULATE

IS AN AMIRICAN THAT WAS THERE IN THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY. MAN INSIDE TELES

HER TO WAIT, WOMAN OUISIDE IS SILVIA DURAN AND SHE SPEAKS IN ENGLISH WITH

SOMEONE OUTSIDE AND CONVENTS IIY SPANISH THAT APARICIO GOT A TELEPHONE AND.

SHE WRITES IT DOWN: 14 12 99. SILVIA TELLS ABOUT THE AMERICAN CITIZEN AND

THAT ES IS GOING TO TALK TO THEM. MAN OUISIDE SPEAKS RUSSIAN. MAN INSIDE

TALKS TO HIM IN ENGLISH, SILVIA DURAN ASKS NORTRAMIRICAN "DO YOU SPEAK

RUSSIAN?" "THEN WHY DON'T YOU TALK TO HIM?" NORIHAMERICAN TAKES PHONE

AND SAYS IN BROKEN RUSSIAN "I WAS IN YOUR EMBASSY AND SPOKE TO YOUR CONSUL.

JUST A MINUTE, " MAN IN SOV IMB ASKS NORTHAMERICAN IN ENGLISH WHAT DOES HE

WANT?" NORTHAMERICAN: "PINASE SPEAK RUSSIAN". SOVIRY "WHAT ELSE DO YOU

WANI?" NORTHAMERICAN: "I WAS JUST NOW AT YOUR EMBASSY AND THEY TOOK MY

ADDRESS. " SOVIEY: "I KNOW THAT." NORTHAMERICAN: "I DID NOT KNOW IT

THEN, I WENT TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY TO ASK THEM FOR MY ADDRESS BECAUSE THEY

HAVE IT." SOVIET: "WHY DO'T YOU COME AGAIN AND LEAVE YOUR ADDRESS WITH

US. IT IS NOT FAR FROM THE CUBAN EMBASSY." NORTHAMERICAN: "WELL I'LE BE

THERE RIGHT AWAY. " STATION SOURCE

• NOTED NORIT-

AMERICAN SPOKE TERRIBLE HARDLY RECOGNIZABLE RUSSIAN.

3. ON ONE OCTOBER 1963 AT 1045 HOURS MAN CALLED SOVIET EMB AND SAID

"HELLO THIS IS LEE OSWALD SPEAKING. I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND

SPOKE WITH THE CONSUL AND THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM TO

WASHINGTON SO I WANTED TO FIND OUI IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING NEW?

BUT I DON'T

HH 53199 DocId:32106383

Page 4

---

## Page 5

11(PAGE 2)

REMEMBER THE NAME OF THAT CONSUL." SOVIRT (EMBASSY GUARD OBYEDKOV):

"KOSTIKOV: HE IS DARK. "

MAN OUTSIDE: "IDS. MY NAME IS OSWALD."

SOVIET: "JUST A MINUTE I'LL FIND OUI, THEY SAY THAT THEY HAVEN'T

RECCIVED ATYTHING YET. MO: "HAVE THEY DONE ANYTHING?" SOVIET: "YES

THEX SAY THAT A REQUEST HAS BEEN SENT OUT BUT NOTHING HAS BEIN

RECEIVED AS YET." NO: "AND WHAT..?" SOVIET HANGS UP.

4. STATION SOURCE SON

JI WHO DID TRANSCRIPTIONS SAYS OSWALD

IS IDENTICAL. WITH PERSON PARA ONE SPEAKING BROKEN RUSSIAN WHQ CALLED

FROM CUBAN EMBASSY 28 SEPTEMBER TO SOVIET ENBASSY•

END OF MESSAGE

WW 53199 DocId: 32106383

Page 5

98S1

---

## Page 6

SECRET

1. FOLL ADDITIONAL CALLS

TELEPHONE TAP PROBABLY

REPEAT OSWALD:

A. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT (TRANSLATION

FROM SPANISH: "MAN CALLING SAYS HE NEEDS TO GET A VISA TO

GO TO ODESA. MAN INSIDE TELLS HIM TO CALL 15 60 55 AND ASK

FOR THE CONSUL. MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS FOR THE ADDRESS. MAN

INSIDE GIVES IT TO HIM.")

B. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 CALL TO SOV CONSULATE 1605 HRS

(TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH: "WOMAN OUTSIDE FROM THE CUBAN

CONSULATE SAYS THAT OVER THERE SHE HAS A MALE AMERICAN CITIZEN

WHO CAME TO APPLY FOR AN IN-TRANSIT VISA FOR CUBA BECAUSE HE

IS GOING TO THE USSR AND HE WANTED TO KNOW WITH WHOM HE HAD

TALKED BECAUSE SHE SENT HIM TO THEM (FROM THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY)

SAYING THAT IF THEY MADE OR ACCEPTED THE VISA, THEN THE

CUBANS WILL ALSO GIVE IT TO HIM WITHOUT FURTHER PROCEDURES

ONLY BY NOTIFYING IMMIGRATION IN CUBA AND SHE WANTS TO KNOW

WITH WHOM HE TALKED BECAUSE HE SAYS HE DOES NOT KNOW EITHER

WITH WHOM HE TALKED WHO TOLD HIM YES, THAT HE WOULD HAVE NO

PROBLEM. MAN INSIDE ASKS HER TO WAIT. WOMAN OUTSIDE IS SILVIA

DURAN FROM THE CUBAN CONSULATE AND EXPLAINS THE SAME THING

TO ANOTHER MAN INSIDE. THE LATTER ASKS HER TO LEAVE HIS

TELEPHONE AND NAME SO THEY CAN CALL HIM LATER. SILVIA THEN.

NW 53199 DocId: 32106383 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEGRET

(PAGE 2)

FURNISHES IT TO HIM AS WELL AS TELEPHONE 11 28 47 AND SHE

TAKES THAT OPPORTUNITY TO SAY AS SOMETHING PERSONAL OF HER

THAT SHE CHANGED HER ADDRESS AND HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO

NOTIFY THEM SO THEY CAN SEND HER THE BULLETIN AND THAT NOW

SHÈ CAN GIVE IT TO THEM. MAN INSIDE ASKS HER TO CALL

KOURKHARENKO TO GIVE HIM HER CHANGE IN ADDRESS AND THE MAN

ASKS FOR THE NAME OF THE COUNSELLOR OR CULTURAL ATTACHE.

SILVIA SAYS THAT HER NAME IS TERESA PROENZA AND SHE CAN BE

CALLED AT 14 13 26. MAN INSIDE SAYS THANKS.")

C. ON 27 SEPTEMBER 63 AT 1626 HRS OUT CALL FROM SOV

EMB TO 11 28 47 (TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH: "MAN INSIDE ASKS

SILVIA IF THAT AMERICAN HAS BEEN THERE. SILVIA SAYS YES,

THAT HE IS THERE. MAN INSIDE SAYS THAT ACCORDING TO THE LET-

TERS HE SHOWED HIM FROM THE CONSULATE IN WASHINGTON HE WANTS

TO GO TO THE USSR FOR A LONG TIME WITH HIS RUSSIAN WIFE, BUT

THE ANSWER STILL HAS NOT BEEN RECEIVED FROM WASHINGTON ABOUT

HIS PROBLEM, BUT THAT ACCORDING TO THE PROCEDURES THIS TAKES

SOME FOUR OR FIVE MONTHS BUT THAT WITHOUT THAT PERMIT FROM

THE USSR THEY SHOULD ASK AND RATHER THEY CANNOT GRANT THE

VISA THERE WITHOUT ASKING WASHINGTON BUT ACCORDING TO THIS

MAN HE SHOWED HIM A LETTER SHOWING THAT HE IS A MEMBER OF AN

ORGANIZATION IN FAVOR OF CUBA AND HE HAS SAID THAT CUBANS

CANNOT GIVE HIM THE VISA WITHOUT THE RUSSIAN VISA AND NOW

HH 53199 DooId: 32106383

Page 7

---

## Page 8

I (PAGE 3)

THE MAN INSIDE DOES NOT KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH HIM, BECAUSE

THEY MUST WAIT FOR AN ANSWER FROM WASHINGTON. SILVIA SAYS

THAT THEY TOO, BECAUSE HIS PROBLEM IS THAT HE KNOWS NOBODY

IN CUBA AND THAT WAY IT IS VERY DIFFICULT FOR HIM TO OBTAIN

THE VISA, BECAUSE HE WAS THINKING IN PROCESSING HIS VISA,

BECAUSE SINCE HE KNEW THIS WOULD TAKE LONG HE WAS GOING TO

WAIT IN CUBA FOR THE RUSSIAN VISA AND FROM THERE GO TO THE

USSR. MAN INSIDE SAYS THAT THE THING IS THAT IF HIS WIFE

IS NOW IN WASHINGTON BUT IS GOING TO GET RIGHT NOW THE VISA

OR THE PERMIT FROM THE USSR TO RETURN TO HIS COUNTRY, SHE IS

GOING TO GET HER VISA IN WASHINGTON BUT HAVING HIS VISA SHE

COULD BE NOTIFIED AT ANY PLACE, HERE FOR EXAMPLE, OR ANYWHERE

ELSE, BUT THEY DON'T HAVE IT RIGHT NOW. SILVIA SAYS OF

COURSE AND THAT BESIDES THEY CANNOT GIVE HIM A LETTER BECAUSE

THEY DON'T KNOW IF HIS VISA WILL BE GRANTED. MAN INSIDE SAYS

THAT THEY WILL ONLY GRANT THE VISA ACCORDING TO THE INSTRUCTIONS •

SILVIA SAYS THAT THEN THAT'S WHAT SHE WILL PUT IN HIS CARD.

MAN INSIDE SAYS THAT BESIDES HE IS NOT KNOWN AND EXCUSE HIMSELF

FOR THE INCONVENIENCES. SILVIA SAYS IT'S ALL RIGHT AND THANKS

HIM.")

D. ON 1 OCT 63 CALL AT 1031 HRS TO SOV MIL ATT IN BROKEN

RUSSIAN: "HELLO. I WAS AT YOUR PLACE LAST SATURDAY AND I

TALKED TO YOUR CONSUL. THEY SAID THAT THEY'D SEND A TELEGRAM

DELICI

NW 53199 DooId: 32106383 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SEGRET

(PAGE 4)

TO WASHINGTON AND I WANTED TO ASK YOU IF THERE IS ANYTHING

NEW?" SOVIET: "I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU TO CALL ANOTHER PHONE

NUMBER." MAN OUTSIDE: "PLEASE." SOVIET: "PLEASE WRITE

IT DOWN 15 60 55 AND ASK FOR A CONSUL." MAN OUTSIDE:

"THANK YOU." SOVIET: "PLEASE."

E. ON 3 OCTOBER 63 CALL TO SOV MIL ATT: MAN OUTSIDE

SPEAKS IN BROKEN SPANISH THEN IN ENGLISH TO SOVIET. "HELLO.

VISA FOR RUSSIA." SOVIET: "CALL ON THE OTHER PHONE." MAN

OUTSIDE: "I'M LOOKING FOR A VISA TO GO TO RUSSIA." SOVIET:

"PLEASE, CALL ON THE TELEPHONE OF THE CONSUL," MAN OUTSIDE:

"OH, THE CONSUL." SOVIET: "THAT'S RIGHT, 15 60 55." MAN

OUTSIDE: "ONE MOMENT PLEASE, I'LL HAVE TO GET A PENCIL TO

WRITE THE NUMBER DOWN. THEY ISSUE THE VISA THERE?" SOVIET:

"THAT DEPENDS ON YOUR CONVERSATION. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS

BUSINESS. PLEASE CALL. THE OFFICE OF THE CONSUL AND ASK YOUR

QUESTION." MAN OUTSIDE: ASKS THE NUMBER OF THE TELEPHONE:

AGAIN. SOVIET: GIVES THE NUMBER TO HIM AND TELLS HIM TO

ASK FOR THE CONSUL. OF THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO.

MAN

OUTSIDE: "THANKS."

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

HH 53199 DocId: 32106383 Pade 9

---

