# docid-32286066

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10194-10342

HQ

92-3182-897

Document Information

• ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/24/1964

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

GAL, JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TESUR,

MISUR, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/27/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286066

32

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

/ DATE:, 11-14-2017

* FD-143 (Rev. 4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

3010-106

CAR 1907 COTION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

JUNE

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile

92-3182 DATE:

1/24/64

FROM

- it, carso (9im30-5u8 2).

SUBJECT

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE •

RE: Title

Character of Case

Field Office

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

GUS

ALEX, aka

AR

CORT. INFT.

Chicago

CG 6502-C*

THANK or

1. Name of person, or organization on whom surveillance placed:

GUS ALEX, Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago,

Illinois.

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:*

Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Chicago Office Consolidated Plant

4.

"Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization by Bureau on 12/14/61.

Installation established 1/4/62.

5:

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

None. a

6.

It installation is a technia

surveillance,

answer followingirques

Not applicable.

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?REG. 3A

92=

3182

Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

3 JAN 29:1964

c.

Bureau (RM)

Registered

hicago

Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?.

"or!

• CA

DocId: 32286066 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

do Is surveillance on

a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One, Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago,

Illinois.

8. Is the Installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other

side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Day-today information on activities, travels and associates of

ALEX.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11.

Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

14. Cost

of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises: None (Plant located in Chicago

Office.)

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

19

- 2 -

DocId: 32286066 Page 3

---

