# docid-32310644

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10306-10053

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 109-584-3426

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO.:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

03/12/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

SAF, ASSOC, MIL SERV, ROSTER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LIST

v91

HH 54027

DocId: 32310644

Page 1

---

## Page 2

0010616-08-N0. 10

UNITED STATES

Memora

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

SUBJECS

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

1 DAD

1 9 2/63

E14.A CONNi

Dr. ERNESTO ARAGON Y GODOY, 233 East 69th

Street,

New York City, on 3/6/63 furnished a complete

list of Cubans now serving in the United States Arny and

stationed in Fort Jackson, South Carolina. Dr. Aragon

advised that he would also keep the New York O'fice

advised and furnished up-te-date lists of the lames of

Cubans serving with the Cuban Unit in the Unitéd States

Arny at Fort Jackson, South Carolina.

There is enclosed for the Bureau, Miami

and Savannah, one copy each of the list fumished by

Dr. Aragon for information purposes.

For the information of Savannah, Di. Aragon

Ja the Delegate of the Consejo Revolucionario de Cuba

(end) which is headed by Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA.

Dr,

ARAGON spends most of his time in Washington, D.C.

there he acts as the representative of Dr. MIRO CARDONA

United States Department of State,

and the attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY

the Pentegons

In the event any information furnished by Dr. ARACE

is utilized by Savannah.

the identity of Dr. ARAGON shoula

be protected by his request and he should be described as

Laying rumished reliable Infoma#Ll INFORMAPION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Bureau. (109-504)

(ENOL"

DATE 3/386

Miami (105 1742)

ENCI.

(INFO) (RM)

Savannah

(ENCI:

1) (INFO) (RM)

New York

(134-7027), (INV.)

New York

(105-35253.):

IP W

FJO: 1

(6)

3426

141-15°

028

HH 54027 DocId: 32310644 Pagé 2

---

## Page 3

OF IONAL FOR

NO. 10

3010-901--01

UNITED STATES (

Memora

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-04

DATE:

3/32/63

4

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-319.3)

12127

ENG: G4

SUbJECT:

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO AOTYVITIES

IS - CUBA

dide raiseder

1' .

ERNESTO ARAGON Y GODOY,

233 East 69th

Streeü,

New York City, on 3/6/63 furnished a complete

list of Cubans now serving in

the United States

Army and

stationed in Fort Jackson,

South Carotina.

Dr. Aragon

advised that he would also keep the New York Office

advised and furnishei up-to-date lists of the names of

Cubans serving with the Cuban Unit In the United States

Army at Fort Jackson, Souch Carolina:

There is enclosed for the Bureau, Miami

and Savannah, one copy each of the list furnished by

Dr. Aragon for informatión purposes.

For the

information of Savannah, Dr. Aragon

1s the Delegate of the Consedo Revolucionario de Cuba

(cRo) which is headed by Dr.

JOSE MIRO CARDONA.:. Dr.

ARAGON spends most of his time in Washington, D.C.

where he acts as the representative of Dr. MIRO CARDONA

with the

• United States Department of State, the Pentagon

and with Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY.

In the event any, informacion furnished by Dr. ARAC

is utilized by Savannah,

the identity of Dr.. ARAGON should

be protected by his request and he should be described as

having furished reliable Infomation in the past

OCOPIES DESTrOYED

2

(ENCI...

Miami

ENCL.

1-

Savannah

(ENCL. 1) (INFO)

1-

New

1-

York

(134-7027) (INV.)

New York

(105-35253):

FJO: chi

(16)

RM)

ENROS (RM)

(RM)

NEG- 50

• MAR 78 1963

ridge st

2303

Cas = 24

NH 54027

DocId: 32310644 Page 3

---

