# docid-32194312

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10261-10246

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-75-357.358

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NI 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG. MX

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/10/1964

PAGES: 12

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 62-109060-2987

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

01/29/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LHM

NW 53025 DocId: 32194312

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

8010-101-02

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

I Goner

CONTIDENTIA

_S0:

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM:

LEGAI, MEXICO CITY (89-6) (RUC)

DATE:

5-4/20/64

3E2

Irs

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FIIZGERALD KENNEDY,

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

CONG ENG

- Indefinite

Dale o tal

ENCLOSURES:

x8-77

Enclosed are 37 copies of a letterhead memorandum

dated and captioned as above, of which 25 copies are for the

Dallas office, one copy for the detroit office, and one copy

for the New York Office.

REFERENCES:

43

4%

Mexico CIty letter dated 3/11/64, entitled "REVA

1 602, 2 83 10-197 717 105-236) 126 0-2637

to Bureau

dated 3/19/64, with triple caption of instant case;

DI f1le 100-10451); and

aka; LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

ОП:

HH 53025

dated 4/3/64.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Referenced Bureau cable set forth that additional

instructions were being submitted to the New York and Detroit

Offices.

The Mexico City Office is not in receipt of these

Instructions, and it is suggested, 1f 1t has not already been

neate york and Detroit offices be instructed ta

FK

89-75-358

Bureal

(Encs. - 37)

1 - Liaison Section)

2 - Dallas, 89-43, Encs. - 25)

DECLASSIFED BY SEE SLIGEL

ON. 410/95

sonic taked

1 - New York.

Info..

EnC.

1 - MEXICO CILY

FER :eSC;eim

(15)

DocId:32194312 Page 2

30AE0ENEL

---

## Page 3

MC 89-6

proceed carerully in any Investigation of this matter in order

not to compromise, Mex-18 and MEX-19p Bureau informants operating

In MEXICo. WI

That cable requested that MEX-18 and MEX-19'be pinned

down regarding specifics.

These informants were recontacted

on 4/2/64 and lurnished the additional details set forth in the

(Le)

enclosure.

These informants have explained that, inasmuch as

REVA FRANK BERNSTEIN (BuIle 100-343413, MC file 100-2363) anc

JOSEPH BERNSTEIN (Bufile 100-60623, MC file 100-2367) are not

presently in the Mexico Area, further details are unavailable.

Also, as is pointed out in the enclosure about REVA FRANK

BERNSTEIN, the informants advised that the BERNSTEINS, as well

as ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA (Bufile 100-395934, MC f1le 100-939),

are not individuals who will answer direct questions and, when

questioned directly, they are known to terminate the discus-

sIon.

With regard to documentation in the enclosure on

GEORGE WILLIAM CROCKETT, JR. (Buf1le 100-367743, MC f1le

100-1820), it is noted that the Mexico City file is Incomplete

an the and that the else has accee to proper documentation.

with regard

NIDERMAN, it is noted that MEX-10

and MEX-19 nad no informatio

regarding her & (U)

SOURCES:

ine contidential source mentioned in enclosed letter

read memorandun 1s MEX-18 and MEX-19 (MC {1le 134-10A2 Who SU

were contacted

Dy SA NATHAN L, FERRIS on 1/8,21; 2/6,13,26;

4/2/64.

The second source is NY-384-S.

The third source 1s CSNY-2551-S (Address of ELF).

CLASSIFICATION:

The enclosed letternead memonanaum is classifled

"SECRET" to protect MEX-18 and MEX-19, who are informants in

Mexico furnishing highly sensitive iniormation involving

espionage and information vital to the internal security of

the United States. It is essential that the identity of these

- 2 -

1N 53025 D0010:32194312 Page 3

GUINNIDEMI

---

## Page 4

• 3

MC 89-6

informants be fully protectedt information from ELIZABETH

especially since they are the

only source which received the

CATLETT MORA, REVA FRANK BERNSTEIN, and JOSEPH BERNSTEIN, who

are not known to have discussed the information in the letter-

head memorandum with anyone else..

under the circumstances,

the protection of these informants is of paramount interest

o the continued operations o

no season nue deterated memoran ta laserted ascer. * u

COPIES:

CONSPIRAI

Iwenty-live copies of the enclosed letterhead memo-

randum are being designated for Dallas, the domestic office

of origin, according to instructions set forth in referenced

Dallas airtel.

Ten copies of the

Enerals are betne corarded to

the Bureau Inasmuch as referenced Bureau cable instructed that

the results of reinterviewith MEX-18 and MEX-19%e incorporated

into a letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination to the

President's Commission.

Inasmuch as the Detroit and New York Offices are

being furnished additional instructions by the Bureau, one

copy of the enclosed letterhead memorandum is being furnished

for the information of each of these offices.

-3-

HH 53025

DocId: 32194312 Page

---

