# docid-32301588

## Page 1

• .

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10423

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-104

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/28/1964

PAGES:

11

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, MEMBERS, ASSOC, ACA, OBA, RAIDS, FUNDS,

COMANDOS L

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC LHM, MEMO

In 18092 DocTa: 32301588 Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Forija 2.

TASK FORGE

SECgET

23K2

ILEASE IN FULL

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Masistant Attorney General

Ector, FBI

SOTIMTENTO INSURRECIONAI DE

RROBPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Apxil 3, 1964

CSE

ELI

JULEWED

акку

4.2

Classited

Declassify on: /DADR 1/12/85

EN CONTAINECE

F.L!!'

F'"

77

E..:

SHOWN

00

Doslacsi?

Reference is nade to your letter dated March 30, 1954,*

Attached is a copy of a memorandum dated

CIA ME

March 28, 1964, which indicates that Orlando Bosch Avila,

LAS

2/231

head of the MIRR, 1s plannirig additional faids against

98031

Cuba from Andros Island in the Bahamas: LOn March 30, 1964,

a representative of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

SEE REVERSE

N

CLASS.

advised that these were not CIA operationg d(s9t)/u)

DATE OF

SISE YOR

CLASSIFICA

Hith reference to Bosch's plans to transport

ACTION

munitions to Andros Island frou Miami, Florida, which is :

mentioned in the attached tenorandun,

a representative of

Customs in Miami advised that Customs expects to seize

Bosch's boat

as 1t departs for Andros Island with the

munitions.

4) DECLASSIFIED BY SUS SLOPUSE

MALEN &

APR 3 - 1964

COMM-FBL

with referent to the rial or Cquandos I for ae

boat raid against shipping off the Cuban coast, which 1s 2

also mentioned in the attached memorandum,

the above-

ment loned, Custons representative advised that Comandos i

has a boat, the "Andrea," located in the 'Miant River.., Thie

boat has recently been taken out on several

trial runs and

is being closely watched by Customs.

The "Andrea" may be

the boat which Comandos I plans to use in the above-mentloned

raid.

Kith refeten fio the proposed Comandos I raid,

Beingy 117 on March 30

advised that this'agtivity was not a CIA

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

operat 167

: 11

"Contad

DeLoach _

RES- 297-46474

105-lv22 (Comandos I)

PREE SCLE:

Evans .

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

105-2855) Enclosure,

SEE NOTE YOR SAC PAGE THO.

GROUP

Tavel

Troller.

Excluded

I automatio

SEE NOTE PAGES

Tole. Room _-

Holmes

downgradi

and

TWO & THREE.

Gandy

45881

MAIL BO

DO INTA

TELETYPE UNIT

Page

2

declassification

Plate

190r5

:%.

• COPY

ORDED

---

## Page 3

SE

TASK FOR

Ms. J. Walter Yeagley

Apr1l 3, 1964

WED BY

1/2330d

STA EASE IN FULL

asistant Attorney General

WALT

Betor, FBI

ROMIENTO INSURRECTONAZ, DE

Glassidea ty

REOPERACION REVOEUCIONARIA

Declassify on: /AGER 112/85

MIRR

1.11.

INTERNAL, SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Classifled by

Earlies:

90

Refererice is made to your letter dated March 30, 1.954,7

Attached i's a copy of a memorandum dated

Merch 28, 1964, which indicates that Orlando Bosch Avila,

ALASS

12/2114

head of the MIRR, 1s planning additional raids against

9863

Cuba from Andros Island in the Bahamas. LOn March 30, 1964,

CLASS.

REASON -V'C':!

a representative of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA EN RORSE

advised that

yese vere not CIA operations) #(9-91%)(u.)

ĐẠTE OF

SIRE FOR

With reference to Bosch's plans to transport

CLAS

IFIC

ACTIEN

munitions to Andros Island from Miami, Florida, which is "

mentioned in the attached memorandum,

& representative of

Customs in Miami advised that Customs expects to seize

Bosch's boat

it departs for Andros Island with the

munitions:

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 540/HSC

MELED &

APR 3 - 1964

4-1-971

With refererice gaine

plans of Tomandos I for sa

boat raid

against shipping off the Cuban coast, which is

COMI

also mentioned in the attached memorandum, the above-

mentioned Customs tepresentative advised that Comandos LE

has a boat, the 'Andrea," located tri the Miami River.. Thte

boat has recently been taken out on sevetal tilal'

1s being closely watched by Customs. The "Andrea" may be

the boat which Comandos I plans to use in the above-mentioned

raid. "With refetence to the proposed Comandos I raid, CIA

Tolson s

Sil on March 30

advised that this activity was not a CIA

Mohr -

Gasper

operation

Callahan .

Conrad

REG.

DeLoach

2997-4474-

- 105.

222 (Comandos I)

RET!. ATH

CONE

Evans -

Gale

Rôsen .

LECLOSUR

Sullivan.

SEE NOTE HOR SAC PACE TWO.

Tavel'.

AROU

Troller

Excluded

atat omatici

SEE NOTE PAGES

Tele. Roon -252

Holmes _

downgradin

and

TWO & THREE.

Gandy -

MAIL RO

V NA

declassitication

NW 45881

DocId: 32301588

Page 3

• (2)

CORDED

COPY BILAD

---

## Page 4

-==

..

Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

Copies of the attached memorandum have been

• furnished to the interested agencies, Including Gustoms,

the Federal Aviation Agency and the Coast Guard, both

In Miami and in Hashington, D. C.

It is requested that this Bureau be advised as to

whether on investigation of the neutrality aspects of the

MIRR activity is desired and whether separate similar

investigation is desired of the proposed Comandos 1 activity.

Enclosure

NOTE FOR SAC, MIAMI:

Attached is copy of referenced Department letter

dated 3-30-64. Keep Bureau and interested agencies currently

advised of all pertinent developments. LAlso adviser

appropriate Bahamian authorities of MIRR plans. K(G1Yu)

NOTE :

MIRR, anti-Castro organization, has carried out

several raids

against Cuba, the last of which was thwarted

by US authorities in December, 1963. Referenced Department

letter, which was in response to our request for prosecutive

Department i'didi not contemplate initiating criminal action

at this time. Information has

now been received indicating

MIRR is planning new raids against Cuba from Andros Island

in the Bahamas. One raid allegedly will be by boat: against

Soviet freighter off Flordda coast and another will be by

air over sugar areas in !

Cuba. Our informant in

this matter is

Guban refuge pilot:who .

has furnished information.on ,

"intwo previous occasions

which has ledu to the thwarting of these raids. Miami has

prevlously alerted Bahamian authorities concerning activities

of MIRR and this should alsa be done in this case.

also furnished information concerning plans of Comandos L,

another anti-Castro organization, to make boat attacks against *

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE THREE.

SEC

ET

OTHER 4

97-4474-104

NH 45881 DocId:32301588 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FD-36 (Rov. 12-28-63)

FBI

Date:

3/28/64

Transmit the fonoW 8&5

5450 me

(Type in pipin tea at dode) JECTION TO

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED E.TON AND/OF.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

Our, tari

453417.

3/30/60698961124e

SAC, MIAMI (105-2855) CF

REC-23

Peso: 1031414 LETTER

9803 odd/get 824,326

12/24191 12:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL. DE.

Хата мі

IS - CUBA; NM

(00 Miami)

the by see air place

Declassty on 0A: 9-7-83

105-112222

(C4)

SES REVERSE

SIDY FOR

# 21,394

CIASIZICATION

Rerep SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. 2/5/64 at Miami.

1\4

Enclosed are 12 copies of LHM dated and captioned

as above. Copies also furnished locally to State Dept. Go-

58

ordinator of Cuban Affairs, Border Patrol, Coast Guard, G-2,

OSI, Customs (Miant and Region II), INS, FAA, ONI and CIA jAKu)

This communication is classified "Confidential"

to protect a source of continuing value.

MM T-1 is

PSI (under develop-

ment).

Clus

For info of Bureau, BOSCH is depending on

to pilot a boat and trAnsport BOSCH and TAREDO RODRICuEZ,

MIRR treasurer, along with supply of weapons and explosives,

RE211S

from Miami to Andros Island where the munitions will be

xiatched. The boat will be rented. Sul

1964

Icele

+1 771-4474-6939

3 -

Miami

Bureau (EnG Re) (AM) (RM)

1 - 105-705*

GED: egh

• (6)

(u) ON/CST/ECST/COASt BURMAR $0 1964

y routing slip/for ino

crimintse for C

Approved:

I HEROR Made 3/31/04,

Special Agent in Charge

SEORE TO

DATE

Per -3

84

NH 45881 DocId:32301588 Page 5

POTHER 4

---

## Page 6

FD-36 (Hev. 10-29-63)

FBI

Date:

Transmitithe following in

USeS

REVIEWED BY FIEK TORY EPO Code)

Via

oN 7/23/47 clar

_ A RELEASE IN FULL

(Priority)

SECRET

мм 105-2855

O RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

BOSCH also. wants

to handle the problem of

obtaining and piloting an Aerocommander plane to be used in

these plans.

BOSCH expects

to obtain this plane in

either Texas or Calit. where Aerocommanders are advertised in

trade magazines. He will supplyl

with $1200 to obtain

option' to purchase such plane, with right to use it for two

months. &1/us

BOSCH has advised

he will not deal with

either WILLIAM JOHNSON or CHARLES BUSH, U.S. citizens who

were involved in preparations for the 12/28/63 raid. BOSCH

Indicate he mistruste both of these men. fus

Above info has been purposely omitted from the LHM

to protect

_whose vulnerability increases as BOSCH

depends more and more upon him.ff (Qui

Miami has kept Mr. STANLEY SCHACHTER, U.S. Customs,

Miami, informed of all pertinent details. Mr. SCHACHTER

has advised that Comandos I has a boat, the "Andrea", located

in the Miami River, which recently has

been taken out on sev-

eral trial runs.

This boat is 28 feet long and has a 185

HP motor. It is being closely watched by Customs. LIt ap-

pears this may be the boat which Comandos L plans to use on

the raid reported by

Mr. SCHACHTER, on basis info obtained by this

office, expects to seize BOSCH's boat as it departs for

Andros Island with arms and explosives.

Miami will continue to investigate activitles of

MIRR for intelligence purposes and determine if the neutral-

ity laws are being violated.

- 2 -

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

EPRET

NH 45881 DocId:32301588 Page 6

OTHER

4

---

## Page 7

In Reply, Please Refer to

FileiNg 105-2855

UNIT

) STATES DEPARTMENT OF JSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

March 28, 1964

STORET

DECLASSIFLED BY

9/12

CONFIDENTIAL

RE:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

ALL INFORIATION CONTAINED

NEUTRALITY MATTER

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

OF SUEJECT ORGANIZATION

Previous Investigation has reflected that the MIRR 18

an anti-Castro organization of Cuban exiles headquartered in

Miami under the, leadership of Dr. Orlando, Boschyevila. The

MIRR has claimed credit for several airplane bombing raids

over Cube in 1963. Their laat attempt was stopped when the Eler'

U. S. Custous and U. S. Coast Guard seized two boats, ex-

plosives, and a plane on December 28, 1903, in the Miami area,

In January and February, 1964, Dr. Bosch began

making plans for further raids, but encountered difficulty

in raising sufficient funds with which to carry out his plans,

Gurreitt Developmente

On March 25, and 26, 1964, MM I-1, a Cuban exile

who la friendly to some of Bosch's close associates, advised

that Bosch's plans have recently undergone some revision and

acceleration. Bosch intends to set up a base of operations

on Andros Inland in the Bahamas.

He will rent a boat in the

Miami area and transport a quantity of arms and exploalves

from Miami to Andros Island where these materials will be

cached. On this trip he will attempt to choose a suitable

air strip to accommodate an Aeroconander plane. Grafur

CONF IPANTIAK

Group

Chasted by seadlerse

Excluded fr

ia, automatic

Declassiy on: CAN 9/0/83

downgrading and declassification

#31,324

C1. 157

12-12-P0

/APR

XELiOX

7 1964

DARA Gri

3.18-64

NH 45881 DocId:32301588 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-

Re: Movimiento Insurrectional de Recuperacion Revolucionazia

CONFEYENTIAL

SEBRET

Thereafter, the plane will be used to bomb sugar

centrala in Cuba, taking off from Andros, but returning to

Florida after each raid. & Ol/us

Bosch also will use one or more small boats to

attack be relate on And it of FELda, Thera

MM I-1 stated no dates have been set for estab-

11shing the base on Andros Island, or for attacking any of

the targets. Bosch

has not yet acquired a plane.&

Lanter o

x

MM I-I said the MIRR,

under the direction of

Bosch, is now cooperating with the. Comandos he. which 18 ap

anti-Castro action group under the leadership of Antonig

Cuesta and Ramoront, both of Miami. ReJul

Bosch has disclosed that Comandos L has made plaps

for a boat raid against shipping off the north coast of Cuba

near Camaguey Province. Comandos I is monitoring marine

radio messages involving merchant vessels proceeding south

off the coast of Florida toward Cuba. This information will

be utilised by Comandos I in selecting a target. &L/M/u)

tails concerning the Comandos L operation, but felt that it (..'

might be imminent. & (A}u)

He advised that Bosch 1s also Interested In a long

range plan of establishing a bage of operations in the

Dominican Republic. He la considering the advisability of w

CONFIDSTIAL

-2 -

STARET

NW 45881

DocId: 32301588

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Re: Movimiento Insurrecional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria

SECRET

ilapatching two representatives to the Dominican Republic fo

negotiations with appropriate Dfficials.& (Su

Previous Investigation has reflected that Bosch

frequently alters and postpones his plans before putting them

into operation.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and 1a loaned to

your agency; 1t. and its contents are not. to be distributed

outside your agency. :

- 3* -

SEPT

IH 45881 DocId:32301588 Page 9

---

