# docid-32134794

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45651 Date:

11-16-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10049-10005

RECORDS SERIES

:HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:44-24016-634

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : CLEMENTS, MANNING C.

TO : DIRECTOR, EBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE

: 11/30/1963

PAGES

:939

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, MURDER BY RUBY, JR, 11/22-24/63, BACKGROUND,

ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

• RESTRICTIONS : 4; SECTION 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS : REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGES i-iii,

INCLUDES 3

ADMIN

PAGES.

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

• Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

112

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following criminal informants affiliated or

familiar with gambling matters; Albuquerque Division, were con-

tacted on November 25i 1963, with negative results:

AQ 175-C, Albuquerque, N.M.i bY SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AO 133-C, Albuquerque, N.M. bY SA J, JEROME MAXWELL.

PCI RALPH T. TRUJILLO, Albuquerque, N.M. " by

SA J. JEROME MAXWELL.

AQ

128-C, Albuguerque, N.M., by SA CARY CARLTON.

AQ 141-C• Albuquerque, N.M.i

bY SA STUART J. CAMERON.

AQ 181-C, Albuquerque, N.M., bY SA STUART J. CAMERON.

PCI B. HOWARD THORNE, ROSWell; N.M., DY SA WILLIAM L.

EDDY

PCI EDMOND ZUFFEREY, ROSWell, N.M., bY SA WILLIAM I.

EDDY.

AQ 178-C, Grants, N.M., bY SA CALVIN D. KNOTT!

PCT

E. U. KEITH: ClOVIS: N.M./ DY SA FRANK W. HAINES.

PCE KIT PETTIGREN, CLOVIS: N.M.; bY SA FRANK W. HAINES:

On November 25, 1963, A9 204-C advised SA W. J.

WILKINSOR, Jr. Farmington. Na, that she once net JACK RUBY

in an unknown hotel in Dallas.

texas many years ago.

Thẻ

informant was unable to recal the hotel or other people during

this

contact. Informant has never met victin.

C

Coyer Poore

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794 Page 2

---

## Page 3

On 11/25/63, AQ 195-PC advised SA STUART J. CAMERON

at Albuquerque, N.M., that approximately sleven months ago

he met JACK RUBY at the Carousel

flub in paLias, Tex28.

Informant met RuBy through JAc

HARDES, JRey and when the

informant mentioned

that he"was from Albuguerque, RUSY

advised

that LOU LEBBY at Albuguerque was a good friend.

The informant

learned through HARDEE that RUBy came to Dallas, Texas, from

Chicago and that a "Jewish boy" had the particular section of

town where the Carousel is now located

"all sewed up."

Informant states RUBY had a difficult time breaking into the

area, but that he is now quite well off along with the "Jewish

boy," who also has a joint located one block from the Carousel

in an upstairs location.

HARDEE mentioned to AQ 195-PC that RUBY had a "good

In" with the Dallas Police" Dept.

The informant states this

would be borne out from his

cosetvation by the

• fact that RUBY

had à B-gitl Operation where drinks were pushed heavily and

they had no interference from the police department.

The

informant knew of no specific connections with the police

department and only personaily engaged RuBY in

conversation

For Live to ten manuces:

Informant stated he is not aware of

any Chicago underworld connections of RUBY or any subversive

or extremist connections

Ho did not know of any relationship

between the subject and the fair flay for cuba Comnittee or

any association between OSkAza and

RUBY.

→2.=

E

Cover Toge

NW 45651 DooId:32134794

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI 44-1639

ADMANISTRATIVD

Files of the Chicago Orfice

reflect the following:

"Chicago Daily

shune" of December 9, 1939, carried a

article stating

that JOH

MARTIN, Fresident of

Che serap Iron

Junk Handlers Union Local/ 20467, AFL,

".'.

and

the

attorney for the above union.

According to lorer COaD-C,

who

was interlewed at that time,

the Intormany war then in the process

01

toning

a rival union artillated with the CID and

had written

several letters to junk dealers in this regard which he had signed

"Cook".

MARTIN- learned of these letters,

assumed he

was being

double crossed by LEON COOKE,

and during

an argument between MARTIN

and COOKE which

ensued, MARTIN Shot LEON COOKE.

MARTIN then be.

came a lugitive justice.

8023 SOUTH WOLCOTT; CIRCAGO, ELLING

жа, по ін т 1

F

Cover Page

774 456511

DocId: 32134794

Page 4

---

## Page 5

44-1639

Chicago 6670-PD advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT on November 24,

1963 that

he had been a close friend of

subject RUBY for many years

In Chicago.

This Informant advised that "SPARKY" was hot tempered

on occasions, but was generally of a good alsposition.

He stated

that RUBY was an excellent fist fighter.

RUBY, 15 the uld nisateon lony' operated a "boo" our a restaurant

located east of Keazle Avenue on the north s14e, or Roosevelt Road 1n

Chicago.

subject was

a close

28

"ZUCKIE" (phonetie)

friend of one abeLuckeRMa, alse known,

In the middle nineteen forty's,

according to the informant, ZUCKERMAN was shot and the Informant

believed that this occurred because ZUCKERMAN did not cut LEONARD

PARTICK, one of Chicago's top hoodlum, In on the profits of his book.

Shortly after this shooting, PATRICK told the subject to leave town,

accusing him of operating a book without PATRICK's sanction.

PATRICK

warned the subject that if he did not leave Chicago, he would "get

what. ZUCKIE got": The subject left Chicago at this time for Dallas,.

Texas, where he ran'a club oned by his sister.

Informant advised

that he has not been in touch with the subject in recent years and

was completely at a loss to understand the subject's action in shoot-

18g OSWALD.

PCI FRANK DI LEONARDO ACVISEd SA JOHN W. ROBERIS, CROS ON

November 24, 1903, that JACK. RUSY had, at one time, been elose

RoSS FRI chieago top hooddun.

This informant further advised that

RUBY had been a close friend of one JoE SCARAMUZZO who owns a gun

shop on Halsted

I Street near Taylor Street in Chicago.

I.

The chicago Division records contain no intormation con

The same records

reflect that JOSEPH SCARAMUZZO is the omer of Scaramuzzo and Sons

1.11

Gunshop, 831 South Halsted Street, Chicago, Illinois.

It should be

noted that three of the four guns

used by members of the Nationalist

Party of Puerto Rico in the shooting at

the House of Representatives

Washington, D. Cog: On March 1, 19548

were purchased by one WILLIAI

GATETTY, Gary, Indiana, from Scaramuzzo and Sons, 801 South Halsted

Street, Chicago.

• CG 6443-6 advised SA JOSEPH G. SHEA on November 24, 1903

that he believed the subject was related

In some manner to one HARRY I!!,

RUBENSTEIN.

The Informant advised that HARRY RUBENSTEIN had owned: U:

the Hotel Olymple on North Clark Street on Chicago's near North side,

approximately fifteen years ago.

HARRY RUBENSTEIN killed a man In

shis hotel, but by a payment of $25,000.00 to a Chicago Police Captain,

was able to fix this charge. According

RUBENSTEIN had good connections with certain unknown criminals in the

Chicago area but was not considered by the Informant to be a member

of the Organized Criminal Element In this city.

It should be noted that the records of the Chicago Police

Department reflect one HARRY RUBENSTEIN, a hotel owner on the near

, North side, as having been sentenced to

one year probation on a charge

of manslaughter In 1946.

Couch.

Roge

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 6690-PO advised

SA JOSEPH Go

SHEA on November 24, 1963,

that the subject was related

to HARRY RUBENSTEIN who formerly

operated

two or theee

bars in the chicago loop area.

According to the informant,

the subject worked as a bartender. for HARRY RUBENSTEIN in a bar at the

Banker's Building in Chicago-X 100p

The informant advised that in

1942 or 1943, JACK RUBENSTEL attempted to entist In the united states

Navy but was rejected when he failed to pass the physical examination.

The intormant described JACK RUBENSTEIN as exoremely patriotic but

moody. This informant was usable to furnish any information concerning

HARRY RUBENSTEIN's present whereabouts or actimities.

BERNARD GLICKMAN (Protect Identity) advised SA JOHN R. BASSETT

on November 24, 1963, that he does not know the subject.

GLICKMAN

advised that he had contacted a person known to him, whose identity he

would not reveal, who recalled the subject as a friend many years ago

in the area around Independence Boulevard and Roosevelt Road in Chicago.

According to GLICkMAN, this source stated that the subject was not

connected with the criminal element; Chicago.

This source indicated

that RUBENSTEIN was good natured but on occasion was extremely hot

that cod bu, the

tempered According to this source, the subject had left chicago In

the late

1940's for Dallas, Texas, where he operated

a club belonging

to his sister.

GLICKMAN advised that he had made an unsuccessful

attempt to contact ANTHONY ACCARDO in an effort to obtain information

concerning the subjeet.

In bois;

It should be noted that ANTHONY

ACCARDO is a high ranking

member of Chicago's criminal element.

BERNARD GLICKMAN 18 known to

be a close assoclate of many or chicago's top echelon criminals and

has, in recent years, been active In the management of several ranking

prize lighters.

All other Chicago Informants

negative and Chicago files

reflect no intornation pertaining to subject's involvement with Chicago

criminal element.

Cover Page

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 44-645

DI 44-1639

WER: eah.

CG 6498-PC was contacted by SA WILLIAM E, ROMER, on

11/25/63, but at that time had no personal knowleäge of RUBY.

11/26/63, CG 6498-PC advised that he had

solicited information from

politicians of the 24th Ward, the former voting residence of RUBy.

eC advised that he talked to two persons who appeared to know RUBY

from many years ago.

They advised that RUBY was never anything but

"a punk" and never had any hoodlum connections or associations.

person advised that he recalls that RUBY attempted to sneak into a

prize fight in Chicago, believed to be the second DEMPSEY - TUNNEY

fight, and was caught by a police officer who beat him over the head

with his night stick. As a result of this beating, RUBY now has a

plate in his head.

Apparently this causes pressure when RUBY becomes

excited and causes RUBY to act emotionally.

cote Boe

14 45651 DocТd:32134794

Page 7

---

## Page 8

DI 44-1639/ cv

ADMENISTRATIVE

DN 249-C frequented Clover Bar next door to Sherman Hotel,

Chicago, Illinois, 1946 to 1949.

He described this bar as a hengout

for the hoodlum element. At that time it was operated by IRA/COLITZ

who was described as a personal friend of Colonel JACOBRARVEY, a well,

ILL.

known Chicago political figure. CoMts possibly was recently a

candidate for Alderman in Chicago and resides in penthouse apartment

on Michigan Boulevard.

The informant related JACK RUBY, whom he identified from

newspaper photographs, frequented the Clover Bar in about 1946 or

1947 and was an acquaintance of IRA COLITZ and possibly wes a former

school mate of COLITZ on the west side of Chicago.. He does not know

the nature of RUBY's activities in Chicago.

The informant stated that

in about December, 1949, he was

in Dalias, Texas, at which time. RUBY was operating a night club,

name unknown, with western band and western motif. The informant

visited this club and chatted briefly with RUBY who requested that

he convey RUBY's regards to COLITZ when the informant returned to

Chicago.

The informant has not seen or heard from RUBY since 1949

and has never had any specific information concerning RUBY's back-

ground or ectivities but has never had any reason to suspect him

of being involved in subversive activities.

sue

Jlor

774 456511

DocId: 32134794

Page 8

---

## Page 9

DN 44-387

DI. 44-1639

ADMINISTRAIIVE

DN 295-C, who furnished rellable information in the past,

furnished the following Novenber 25, 1963:

"Pappy's Showland" in Dallas.

extent of association unknown.

DN 200-S and DN 215-S who are cogni-

zant of Communist Party, Soelalist Workers Party, Freedom for Cuba

organizations, advised on

November 25, 1963,

that they

do not know JACK LeON RuBy or Jack RUbensteI.

These

sources have furnished

rellable information in the past. All other

logical informants and

PCI'& Denver Division unable to fumish any

positive information re JACK RUBY.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED ON This

MERLIN 15 Ci

pq. oNly

DATE 3 - 10-93 BY 9803 RDDYIS

JFK. SpECIAl

K

Couer Boge

774 456511

DooId: 32134794 Page 9

---

## Page 10

HO 44-939

DL 44-1639

LAB. eah

Houston 1125-0 advised SA LEVERETTE A. BAKER

on 11/25/63, he met JACK RUBY a number of years ago

through ABE WEINSTEIN (PH),

owner of Colony Club, Dallas,

Texas, but knows nothing further concerning RUBY.

i cover tone

NW 45651 DooId:32134794 Page 10

---

## Page 11

LA 44-895

FHT : JMF

Gambling Informants

Los Angeles Office

CALIFORNA

PCI. NORMAN SIMON, on 11/25/63, could provide no

personal information about

JACK LEON RUBY, aka, but he did

make avariable for interview by SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND one

MORRIS BLOCK, 5510 Edgewood Place, Los Angeles!

Information

from BLOCK of potential value, including the identity of a

knowledgeable Chicago friend, has been submitted separately

by FD 302 and by teletype containing lead for Chicago.

Other informants

who could provide no information

are:

IA 3445-C on 11/26/63, to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

LA 3948-C on 11/25/63, to SA FRANK HI. TOWNSEND.

LA .4400-PC on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

IA 4410-C-TE On 11/25/63: to SA GEORGE E. BLAND.

LA 4448-PC-on 11/26/63 to SA JOHN R. BARRON.

PCI JACK IRVING FOX on 11/25/63 to SA AMEDEE O.

RICHARDS, JR.

PCI SAM FARKAS on 11/26/63 to SA WILLIAM J, NOLAN.

PCI COSSIETT PALMER on 11/26/63 to SA TOWNSEND.

The following informants were contacted by SA

HOMER E. YOUNG on 11/26/63 with negative results:

LA 3596-0

PCI

IA 4218-0

LA 4221-0

JEK Act 6 (4)

raver

lose

HH 45651 DocId: 32134794 Page 11

---

## Page 12

LA 44-895

FHT : JME

CALIT

PCI GEORGE COSTELLO

JEK ACt 6 (4)

PCI

• PCI RAY SOUTHCOTT

MRS. EARLEN URMAN

LA 4135-C advised that she had been

contacted by letter

from Dallas, Texas, by EARl NORMAN and his wife, CLAIRE BARTLET ORAN

who wanted informant to handle their bookings on-the-west CoastE

had been working for JACK LEON RUBY in

Dallas.

Informant stated that she is aware thät EARI NORMAN left

Dallas on 11/21/63 for a booking into The Largo, a night club

located on the Sunset Strip in Hollywood. Informant stated she

would imagine that NORMAN's wife accompanied him. Informant said

she did not book this team since she did not have an opportunity

to audition them.

LA 4135-0 advised that the only bookings she handles

in the Dallas area for strip tease dancers is through ABE WEINSTOCK

and his brother for their two places and has never had any business

dealings with RUBY nor has she ever met him.

Cover Page

NW 45651 DocId: 32134794 Page 12

---

## Page 13

NO 44-2064/lav

INFORMANTS

NO 1238-PC who is a known associate of JOSEPH and

CARLOS

as well as JOSEPH PORETTO and who has been

a manager of the

MARCELL Town and Country Restaurant up until October

of 1963, advised SA REED W. JENSEN on November 27, 1963, that

he had never heard of a JACK LEON RUBY or a LEE HARVEY OSWALD

prior to their notariety in the connection

with the assassina-

tion of President JOHN F. KENNEDY.

The PC stated on examining

a photograph

Of LEE HARVEY OSWALD, NOPD number 112723, that he

had never seen this individual in person before.

he could not recall anyone who may have frequented the Town

and Country Motel who resembled this individual enough to

cause anyone to think

this person might be OSWALD.

COVER PAGE

Colen Page

HH 45651 DocId: 32134794

Page 13

---

## Page 14

NO (44-2064) / sw

2

INFORMANTS CONTINUED -

On November 25, 1963,

SA LESTER G. DAVIS contacted

NO 1153 C, a homosexual who operates a restaurant in the New

Orleans French Quarter.

This informant advised he had never

known RUBY•

NO 1205 C, operator of a

Louisiana®

This informant, who travels widely, had never met

or heard of RUBY until he saw RUBY on television on November

24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN contacted

NO 1227 PC, a former tavern operator, who is presently a pimp

and fencer

of stolen property.

This

informant, who is originally

from the Chicago, Illinois area, advised that he did not know

RUBY and had never heard of him until he heard about RUBY on

television since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA RICHARD BUCARO contacted

NO 1209 C, a bartender and strip tease club manager, in the

New Orleans French Quarter.

This informant advised he had

never known RUBY or heard of him until he saw RUBY on television

since November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA FURMAN G. BOGGAN contacted

PCI ANTHONY W. FREDO, a sports

handicapper, who has traveled

widely throughout the United States. FREDO stated he had

never heard of RUBY until he saw the shooting of OSWALD by

RUBY on television on November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963, SA KEVIN J. HARRIGAN contacted

NO 1189 C, a New Orleans French Quarter barroom operator, who

advised that he did not know RUBY and had never heard of him

until November 24, 1963, when RUBY shot OSWALD.

On November 25, 1963, SA J. DAWSON VAN EPS contacted

PCI HOWARD D. BAUTSCH, a bookmaker in Jefferson Parish,

and

PCI JOSEPH A. KUSS, a former bookmaker, who frequents gambling

establishments, and both advised they did not know rubY and

COVER

PAGE

NW 45651 DocId: 32134794 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NO (44-2064) / sw

3

INFORMANTS CONTINUED

had never heard of him prior to November 24, 1963.

SA JOHN V. HANLON contacted

Louisia na,

who

advised he did not know RUBY and had never heard of him

before November 24, 1963.

On November 25, 1963 SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT contacted

PCI HARVEY MILLER,

establishments.

Sulphur, Louisiana, who frequents gambling

MILLER had never heard of RUDY prior to November

24, 1963.

JEK Act 6 (4)

On November 25, 1963, SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

contacted PCIs

a professional gambler, MILTON

a bookmaker, THOMAS/SKRNICH,

a gambling club operator,

"and JOSEPH DAVID an employee of SKRNICH's, all of Lafayette,

These individuals advised they

nad never hearo

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when they observed him on

network television.

NO 1229 C, a professional bookmaker, Baton Rouge, Louisiana,

advised SA EARL R. PETERSEN on November 25, 1963, that he had

never heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963, when he had

seen the shooting of OSWALD by RUBY on television. Subsequently

on this same date, this informant advised that he had contacted

bookmakers ANTHONY EUGENE NOLAN, TAFITA HANIE Of Baton Rouge,

and they had not known RUBY.

SA PETERSEN_-also contacted PCI

Rouge bookmaker. SERIO had not

heard of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963: La

NO. MAKER, ERe at the canted no ease a CHARLES

Rouge Parish, Louisiana and these bookmakers had not heard

of RUBY prior to November 24, 1963.

COVER

PAGE

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794

Page 15

---

## Page 16

DL 44-1639

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO

The following informant, PCIs, and sources of information

in San Juan, who have furnished reliable information in the past

and who are acquainted

with gambling activities

advised SA LA VERNE

J. MOORE on November 26, 1963, that they did not know RUBY or

OSWALD:

SJ 514-C (Croupier);

PEDRO DEFILLO, POL, gambler;

HARVEY GORDON, ambling castao manager, Caribe Ititon Hotel;

MIGUEL AMATO,

PAUL GUNTA, Resident Manager, Caribe Hilton Hotel,

formerly with Hilton Hotel at Dallas;

RANDALL L. DAVIS, General Manager, Sheraton Hotel,

formerly with Sheraton Hotel, Dallas.

could Pose

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794

Page 16

---

## Page 17

DL 44-1639

The following investigation by Tampa Office:

TP 94-C advised he located address book dated from

1945-48, and noted name NATE GROSSMAN, 5046-N TrOy St Chicago,

Ill.

source stated be is certain NATE GROSSMAN is identical

to TINY GROSSMAN mentioned previously.

Source now recalls meeting GROSSMAN in Chicago in

1948 or 1949, and GROSSMAN told him he had spent some time in

prison and in same conversation mentioned Flagstaff, Ariz.

Informant has hazy recollection that GROSSMAN arrested Flagstaff

for Illinois authorities and probably did time in Statesville

Prison, outside Chicago.

Source now recalls GROSSMAN tended bar and lived in

hotel above bar, located across the street from Croydan

Hotel, Croydan

located near Black Orchid Lounge, Chicago.

Same source recalls RUBY at one time ran errands

for one RAY, LEWIS, a furrier, state...

Lake Building 190 North

State St., Chicago fLEWIS had

a bookie operation on the side

and resided Maryland Hotel, Rush and Delaware Streets, Chicago.

Same source also recalls RUBY loitered about a barber

shop run by one AL INDES at the corner, or near the corner

of Clark Street, and Lake Street, Chicago.

coter Fae

74 45651

DocId: 32134794

Page 17

---

## Page 18

DI 44-1639

TP 94-C advised 11/25/63 he knew RUBY in Chicago by

reputation as ticket scalper along Rush Street and RUBY would

do anything for a buck.. Source states RUBY not known to hang

around racketeers but recalls one TINY GROSSMAN, a cab driver

or bartender, chicago, also a ticket scaper, was close friend of

RUBY.

Souce's knowledge of RUBY dates from 1945 to 1948. Later,

source heard GROSSMAN did time at Flagstaft, Ariz, for tiCket

scalping source also recalls one time RUBY badly beaten trying

to crash a light program Comiskey Park.

RUBY dropped out of

sight in Chicago, 1948, no one missing him.

TP 11-C advised three years ago AGVA female entertainer

complained to AGVA it was rough working in clubs in Dallas.

NW 45651 DocId: 32134794 Page 18

---

## Page 19

DL 44-1639

The following informants who have access to gambling

information in the Dallas area were contacted by SAs ROBERT M.

BARRETT and IVAN D. LEE on the dates indicated:

DL 170-C

PCI BILLY H. MARTIN

PCI

PCI MIKE LESCHETSKO

PCI FRED MERRILL

DI 185-C-TE

PCI PHILLIP STEIN

PCI

DL 181-C-TE

November

25,.

1963

November

24,

1963

November 26,

1963

November

25,

1963

November 26,

1963

November

24, 25, 26,1963

November

25,

1963

November 25, 1963

November 25,

1963

None of the above informants had any information

that JACK RUBY, aka. was involved in any gambling activities

either as

a player

bookmaker or gambler, during the time he

has resided in Dallas area - approximately fifteen years. RUBY

was known to the above informants as the operator of the Carousel

Club or Vegas Club, in Dallas.

JFK Act 6 (4)

5s lage

NW 45651 DooId: 32134794

Page 19

---

