# docid-32287551

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10197-10327

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1441

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, TP

DATE: 11/26/1974

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

LST, BKG, PERSONAL HISTORY, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32287551

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 210%

Hotel.

DATE:

OPTIONAL FORM

•FORM NO. 2017

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA'ÈPMR (41 CFRI 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVE

MENT

Memorandum

T®

Photo eno

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781) 1

-DATE:

CC TO:

PEP

11/26/74

FROM

SUBJECT:

-

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

AUG 2? 1976

ANS.

BY:

Carner -556

SANTO

• TRAFFICANTE, JR

AR

00:

Re PerSA bardon

on meter.

MM

11440

Re Bureau airtel to Tampa, 11/13/74.

Enclosed for the Bureau are eight (8) copies

of an LHM dated and captioned as above for dissemination

to Legats Caracas

and Mexico City.

Also enclosed for above Legats are two photo-

graphs of subject.

Enclosed for Miami are two copies of above LHM

and one copy of referenced airtel.

ADMINISTRATIVE:'

INFORMANTS:

TP T-1 is MM 416-G, whose identity is known to

the Bureau.

TP T-2 is revealed in a confidential report of

Havana Hilton Cassino.

TP T-3 is FRANK GENTILE, who operates a poker

table in the cheap backroom section of the Sans Souci and

who has been connected with various activities in the Sans

Souci for a number of years, who, on his own admission, has

been convicted on a homocide charge in the mid-1920's,

released on parole, deported

to Italy about 1928, after

having served a few years of his sentence and who cannot

return to the U. S.

information in the past

source has fumished reliableus!|

92-27.

DEC

2

- Miami

(92-88) (Enc. 3)

2 - Tampa

GAK : cbb

(6)

EX-110

DEC

FP D

DocId: 32287551

ADELTA 1974

540 Buy U:S: Saving's Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 92-1

TP T-4 is MM 1387-PCI,

TP T-5 is TP: 377-C- TE

TP T-6 is TP 1960-PC,

TP T-7 is TP 41-C-TE;

TP T-8 is SD 1064-C-TE, and

TP T-9 is MIGUEL HERNANDEZ,

part-time employee

of the AID Section of the U. S. Embassy in San*

Jose, Costa Rica

1..

2

DocId: 32287551 * Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer so

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Tampa, Florida

November ?, 5, 19:74

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

I. Personal History and Background

A. Date and Place of Birth

at Tampa,

was born November 15, 1914,

Santo Trafficante, Trafficante, Sr., and Maria

Florida, to Santo

Giuseppe

cacciatore, who were both born in Italy.

B. Education

Santo Trafficante,

Junior High School, Tampa,

School for one semester and in the tenth grade left school.

C.

Relatives and Background

Name:

Santo Trafficante, Si.

Relationship

Present Location

Father - Deceased

August, 1954

Tampa, Florida

On January 29, 1958, records of the United States

District Court, Tampa, reflected a Declaration of Intention

for U.S. citizenship

number 2643 was sworn to February 19, 1923,

by Santo Trafficante, who was born May 28, 1886, at Cianciana,

Italy.

His residence

was listed as 1718 Michigan Avenue.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be dis-

tributed outside your

agency.

SOURCES WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE CON-

CEALED HEREIN HAVE FURNISHED

EPT WHERE OTHERWISE NOTED.

42-2781-1448 MATION ENTHE PAST

DocId: 32287551 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

In October, 1973, TP T-8 was contacted by Frank

Diecidue, a close associate of Trafficante.

During the

contact with Diecidue,

source was informed that Trafficante

at that time was definitely in San Jose, Costa Rica.

On January 9, 1974, TP T-7 advised that Santo

Trafficante was still residing somewhere in South America,

but was unaware of what particular country. However, the

source did emphasize that Trafficante was definitely not in

Costa Rica.

In August, 1974, TP T-8 advised that he had received

intormation that Santo Trafficante, Ji., is "very sick."

According to this source, Trafficante is

so sick that he

sent for his daughter.

This source stated he was aware that

Trafficante had an eye operation, but stated his current sick-

ness was not related to the eye problem.

In a communication dated August 22, 1974, the

Mexico City Legat of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

advised of receipt of information for TP T-9 that Santo

Trafficante frequently visited Evaristo Garcia Vidal,

• United States.

The above three

individuals fled the United States to avoid

arrest and imprisonment,and currently operate a retail cloth-

ing

business in San Jose, Costa Rica.

The Mexico City Legat advised that checks were

made at the office of Costa Rican Immigration on August 14,

19/4, and the following record of entries and exits into

Costa Rica tor Trafficante were noted:

73

Entered

April 13, 19/3

May 152

19/3

July 27, 1973

-September

1, 1973"

November 17, 1973

January 17, 1974

February 11, 1974

Departed

May

3,

1973

May 18, 1973

August 29, 1973

September

22, 1973

...n

January 15, 1974

January 23, 1974

February 27, 1974

73

- 13 -

92-2781-1441

DocId: 32287551

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

On each occasion Trafficante entered Costa Rica

with a tourist card. He entered from the U. S. and on

each exit he departed Costa Rica for Panama. A fürther

record was located indicating that Trafficante had been in

Costa Rica during July, 1974, and had departed July 21, 1974,

for Panama.. He was accompanied at that time by Joseph

Trafficante and Santo Paniello.

The departed Costa Rica for

Panama. All three had entered with tourist cards.

on September 13, 1974, TP T-7 advised that Santo

Trafficante was currently residing in Costa Rica, Centra.

to Costa Rica to perform the eye surgery.

On October 14, 1974, Inspector Korseniowski, U. S.

Customs, Miami International

Airport, advised that Santo

Trafficante arrived at Miani on that

date aboard Lacsa Flight

#622 from San Jose, Costa Rica.

On October 31,

1974, TP T-7 advised he had

received current information that Santo Trafficante was in

the Tampa, Florida; area, and had been in that area for

approximately two days.

According to this source, it was

his understanding that

Trafficante had recently suffered a

heart attack.

To

this date, the source had been unable to

determine how ill Trafficante was.

In addition to the above,

Trafficante since he returned to the Tampa, Florida, area,

in the latter part of October, 1974.

TP T-6 advised that on October 31, 1974, that

Trafficante was back in the Tampa, Florida, area,

and that

he is currently staying with his daughter and son-in-law at

2505 Bristol Avenue

Tampa,

Florida.

This source also

reported that Trafficante is in poor health.

customs

- 14 - REVIEWED BY FEWJFK FASK FORCE

ON

9/14/95 dAbl DO

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

92-4781-1441

DocId: 32287551 Page 6

---

