# docid-32299514

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10225-10294

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1251

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, BN

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/13/1964

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299514

Page

263

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

FATE:

11-14-2111

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106-09

iSA GEN. REG. NO. 2

UN L'ED STATES GO

RNMENT

(SECREU

Memorandum

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

AUROM : LEGAT, BONN

(92-2717)

DATE:

8/13/64

(92-13) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

ON 9/4/96

AT.T TNTORMATION CON LATHEN

HEREII IS UECLASCIELED

RELEASE IT PART

D

LANNISE

ANTONINO ANGELO

ANNALORO,

aka Angelo Bruno

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00: Philadelphia)

87201,326

Glassified by

SPIETA/GOL

Declassify en: 0ADA0/10/87

(SPEmAC/GOL-6/10(94-2602)

'Based on information received telephonically from

Legat Rome at about 1:30 PM August 1, 1964, I contacted the

Directie Politie (Direction of Police) Ministry of Justice,

The Hague, The Netherlands, and furnished them the following

information which was confirmed immediately by a teletype

to the Directie Politie. (5)

ANGELE FRANAXBRONO

An individual believed to be identical with the

TOTAL DENIAT

subject had arrived in Milan, Italy by air from Amsterdam,

The Netherlands,

on 7/31/64.

He was carrying anpurported

Italian passport #541830 issued in the name of ANTONIQKESPOSITO

born 618/110

The passport was issued by the Italian Consulate

at Frankfurt/ Main, Germany, on 7/3/62. This passport was

determined to be false or fraudulently obtained and was taken

from the individual believed to be the subject. Based on

these circumstances Italian police were putting the individual

on KLM Flight 342 departing from Milan, Italy, at 2:25PM

8/1/64,

due to arrive at Amsterdam at 4:15 PM the same date.

The individual being sent out of Milan reportedly had flown

into Amsterdam from Edmonton,

Canada,

on or about 7/30/64, on

Canadian Pacific Flight #382. (G+//(u)

The Directie Politie was asked to alert appropriate

Alien and Amsterdam police and to furnish information expeditiously

regarding the disposition of this

individual upon arrival in

Amsterdam and regarding his activities and contacts there if

he was permitted

to remain in The Netherlands. (5)

Subsequently the Directie Politie advised by telephone

that arrangements "had'

been madé in Amsterdam and that the

individual would be taken

temporary custody upon arrival (5)

4 - Bureau

(1-Liaison)

11 30 WU SREC-1

(1-Philadelphia:

92-2717-1251

1 -

"(Sent direct)

1

Bonn

116 AUG 17 1964

GAV: eds

(6)

70 AUG 2 0 1964

8119/164

1.900

DocId:32299514 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

BATE: " 11-14-2017

SECRET

BONN 92-13

until his identity and proper documentation could be

established and that full inquiry would be made into the

possibility that he had entered and transited The Netherlands

on false documentation.

At 7:15 PM, 8/1/64, the Directie Politie telephonically

advised that the individual had arrived as expected; was

then in the custody of the Alien Police and would be held

until his identity could be fully established. They stated

that the individual claimed to be ANGELO BRUNO, an Italian

national, born 2/2/02, at Lacaster, Italy.

passport

in another name which he had used upon arrival in

Milan had been bought by him from a friend in Genoa, Italy,

some time previously.

• The Directie Politie said this

individual would be held until the full circumstances of

his identity could be established and asked if fingerprints

on the subject could be furnished. (S)

At 8:00 PM, 8/1/64, the above information was

furnished telephonically to Supervisor VICTOR R. SCHAEFER

from Division 9, and it was requested that fingerprints

of the subject be forwarded directly to the American Consulate

General in Amsterdam.

The Consulate had been alerted to

the probable receipt of these fingerprints. Supervisor SCHAEFEF

ndicated that there was strong probability that the individua

An Amsterdam was not identical with the subject.

*It was

pointed out that this office had not requested the

le Dutch

authorities to hold the individual and that the Dutch action

va proper denty scathon 181s of the individual's lack

On 8/6/64, Mr. FRANK WILE, Principal Officer at

the Consulate in Amsterdam, advised

that the subject's

fingerprints had been received; had been turned over to

the Alien Police; and that the Alien Police had advised

that a comparison of them had established that the individual

who arrived in Amsterdam was not identical with the subject.

STATE DEP'T INEO (PARA 3)

IS UNCLASSIFIEO

PER

THEIR 9/4/96 ATATHORUTY

-2-

SECRET

?.?:

DocId: 32299514

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 latel.

ДАТЕ : - 11-14-2017

SECRET

19032

BONN

92-13

By letter received 8/10/64, Mr. WILE confirmed

the above information but added that he had received from

che Bureau also the fingerprints of ANGELO FRANK BRUNO.

FBI #56%7 and that a fingerprint comparison showed that the

person held by the Amsterdam authorities was identical with

ANGELO FRANK BRUNO.

Since ANGELO FRANK BRUNO does not appear to be of

current interest to the Bureau this case. is not being kept

in a pending status Lo report the disposition of him

by

Amsterdam authorities. ](5)

STATE DEPIT INFO IN PARA I

IS LWKCLASSIEIEO PER THEIR

9/49/96 AUTHORITY,

1m03e

-3-

DocId: 32299514 Page 4

---

