# docid-32404087

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10330-10102

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: DAVID W. CAREY

TO

TITLE

HONORABLE JOHN RAYMOND TUNHEIM

LETTER: I HAVE JUST RECEIVED INFORMAL WORD OF THE

DECISIONS THE JEK BOARD MADE AT ITS 17 NOVEMBER 1997

MEETING.

DATE

PAGES

:

11/26/1997

2

SUBJECTS :

DECISIONS

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/11/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F4

: 2000.02.07.11:13:49:357035

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10102

NH 55157 DocId: 32104087

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*NGV_26.199?

12:51PM

NO. 226

P.2

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

AJEK Act 6 (1) (A)

JEK Act

(1) (B)

==

The Honorable John Raymond Tunhein

Chairman

Assassination

Records

Review Board

600 E. Street N.W.

Washington, D.C.

Dear Judge Tunheim:

(e) I have just received informal word of the

decisions the JFK Board made at its 17 November 1997

meeting. Most of the Board's decisions--those relating to

the CIA presence in

_ CIA's involvement. in various

the Agon to telease documents in a form that would reveal

the Agency's use

(ey. We stand behind the position that we have

presented in writing and in discussions with the Board on

previous occasions.

I would welcome an opportunity to have

a senior CIA representative meet with the Board at your

convenience to explain why the Agency considers this

information so sensitive and to answer any questions you may

have.

Meanwhile, I offer the following summary of our

fundamental concerns.

185

CL BY:

CL REASON:

DECL ON:

DRV FROM:

2217297

1.5 (c)

COV 2-87.

SECRET

HH 55157 DocId: 32404087

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NOV. 26.199? 12:52PM

to sir.

"SEeRET

ND: 226 300.3

Gil:

WEK Act

6

(1) (A)

JEK "Act 6

(1) (B)

Judge Tunheim

185

continues to bean"

important

intelligence method. 'Its use is undiminished

since the 1960s, and it will remain essential for the

foreseeable future.. I urge the Board to reconsider its

recent decision insofar as it concerns the Agency's

In this regard,, we will be

use' of

forwarding a more comprehensive memorandum addressing the

damage issue prior to the next Board meeting, and we would

also

like to offer the Board the opportunity for a personal

appearance by a senior CIA representative should that be

appropriate.

Sincerely,

Did lo Cas

David W. Carey

WW 55157

DocId: 32404087 Page

---

