# docid-32373761

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/8/2017

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

CIA

104-10308-10275

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: LA DIV WORK FILE

Released under the Johr

Assassination Records

Collection Act of

1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

Q6-22-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

CIA

ZRKNICK NON-CS MATERIAL- BOX 10

DATE: 10/27/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

JFK ASSASSINATION

AMAPOLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/06/2004

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS

JFK-WF02 : F4: 20040323-1062403:

v9.1

33217

DocId: 32373761 Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10308-10275

27 Oct 62

ZRKNICK Non-CS Material - Box 10

TOP SECRET DINAR - Message (intercepted) from Cuba

to Agent in Miami. Stated "Principal objective is

• the physical elimination of counterrevolutionary

scum and the destruction of their centers. The

less important ones you can beat up and request

their expulsion from the country. Keep the

material secured from the Yankee Embassy in a

safe place until receipt of further instructions."

The "SEPIO" file contains letter from MENENDEZ

in France to Oliva LOPEZ, Mexico. . Believe letter

may have been written by the MENENDEZ who wrote

letter to a Bernardo MORALES in Miami 27 Nov 62,

discussing plans for assassination of President

Kennedy.

See MENENDEZ shadow file. COMMENT by

Task Force Researcher _7

Periodic Activity Report, Dated Presumably

December 1963:

PAMELA Folder (CUIS agent). "In addition to the

regular bi-weekly schedules held on 10 and

24 Nov, a special schedule was held on 29 Nov,

as was

done in the case of AMAPOLA (CARBONNEL).

Among various matters dealt with in the message

transmitted on 10 Nov, one in particular was of

high interest. This was the request for a man

to be chosen to handle commo in cases of emergency

inasmuch as it would be more difficult to

accomplish this as "the struggle worsens."

An

exhaustive report on all aspects of counter-

revolutionary groups and activities was also

requested of the agent."

"On 24 Nov 63, as in

the case of AMAPOLA,

a special code was set up

to enable "A--CH (illegible) to report by cable

directly to drops in Cuba on the situation in

Puerto Rico after the assassination of President

all messages transmitted to PAMELA was to contact

AB--N (illegible) and have him report on the

development of an of the following situations:

a.

if a contingent of Guasno (worms) Cubans

has arrived there;

b.

If

mobilization of resident Guasno Cubans

is noticed;

C .

d.

if

mobilization of U.S. forces is noticed;

the Cubans who arrived and those who were

there before have "developed circulation";

e.

if

activities of repressive organs against

popular forces have increased.

NW 53217 DooId:32373761 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10308-10275

6 Dec 63

-

A special transmission was scheduled for the

following Thursday at the same time. As there

were no adverse developments in the situation

after the President's death, this subject was

not dealt

with in the special transmission made

on 29 Nov (1963).

ROBERTO folder. Agent Roberto was asked to report

on the reaction of the assassination of President

Kennedy by governmental right-wing. and left-wing

circles.

The agent was also asked to report on the

status of plans of aggression against Cuba.

AMAPOLA (Para 5 of Dec 63 Periodic Activity Report:

Cuban authorities obviously were concerned about

reactions and possible repercussions against Cuba

as a result of President Kennedy's assassination.

In the message of 24 Nov a special code was set up

for the agent by which he caild report by cable to

Havana any

unusual activities such as "YANKEE"

concentrations, mercenary concentrations,

increase

in repression of Cuban and leftist sympathizers,

and any disappearance of activt counterrevolutionari

In addition: a special schedule was set up for

Wednesday, 27 Nov. The purpose of this schedule

was undoubtedly to pass special instructions to

the agent in case developments arising after the

assassination adversely affected Cuba.

A full

report via Candi (Cuban clandestine channel in

Mexico City to Cuba) probably via SW, was requested

on the reaction of the gusanos (worms - Cuban exiles

and Republicans to Kennedy's death.

Meno for Chief of Station JMVAVE from Chief, SAS/C!

vhich cites copies of memoranda of 22 and 29 Nov 61

(which are not attached) provided to CIA by FBI

Headquarters liaison officer.

End of Box 10

HH 53217 DooId:32373761 Page 3

---

