# docid-32339284

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90146-10116

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-167

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BR

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/30/1968

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

IC; 4

Redact

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

/DocId: 32339284 Page 1

39

---

## Page 2

Releaged ander the John'T. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

11-P7RNLTITONO: 10

5010-107-02

3 GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO RNMENT

Memorandum

SCGRET

FROM

Director, FBI (105-93072)

it,

Bern (105-248) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

IS - CUBA

Hotel:

apattted b

DATE:

1/30/68

ÄLL INFORMATION CONTAINEO

NEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTNERWISE.

CIA HAS NO OBJEC

DECLASSISICATION

RELEASE OF CIA iNT

IN THIS DOCUMENTA

On 1/24/68 JACK M: SMITH, JR., Economic

Jfficer,

American

Embassy, Bern, furnished information

which

has been made the subject of an LHM, 5 copies of which are

enclosed.

Bern file in this matter has been destroyed.

n açcordance with Bureau approved procedures.

For the information of Rome, GIBSON is the

formen de facto head of the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee

(FPCC) in New York.

The Swiss Federal Police (SFP) reported

that he

arrived in Lausanne, Switzerland, from Algiers in

April, 1963.

In Lausanne he was employed by one FREDY GILBERT

NILS ANDERSSON, who has numérous international leftist

connections and who distributed "Revolution Africaine," a

monthly published in Paris.

That IN HE SON LEE HARVEY SEE one sented

this information, an interview of GIBSON appeared desirable, "

but GIBSON, who

to leave:Switzerland b

wies authorities beterng requis could not be located at the

address or telephone number

Paris which he had given as

where he could be reached

SIt is also

inted out that beneva is a

centen

mation

for Red Chinese intelligence activitya, for infor-

tony

18

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SO/CL

1, 4168 R

• ON: 25X

REC- 23

DECLASS GERT 5130198

(6)

- Bureau (5

encINCLOSURE

105-93072

16?

(1.-

NYC) (1 encl) (info)

(1

- Liaison)

- Legat,

Rome

(1 encl) (info)

пX. 106.

16 FEB

6 1968

USIA:

classifier

AMERICAN

on:

FEB B 5 1968

corinfoo

LATI

Say U.S. Sating Bond Kary the Pai Savings Plan

SECRET

DocId: 32339284

Page 2

---

