# docid-32285482

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10193-10258

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

94-37374-2ND NR 35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DONAHOE, S. B.

TO: BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE:

DATE:

09/23/1960

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ÜEK Act 6 (1) (B)

JFK, SPEECH, REACTION|

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF NSA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 55355 DocId: 32285482 Page 1

15

Date:

4/10/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

11-24-2017

---

## Page 2

E OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED, STATES GOVER

IENT

Memorandum

TO

A. E, Belmont Pe

1-

Pars

1

Belmont

-

Donahoe

1

- G. C. Moore

DATE:

9/23/60

Telson

Mohi -

Parsons

Belmont

1 - Ruehl

Callahan

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

FROM

C-Sallivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

SUBJECT:

REACTION IO

SPEECH OF SENATOR JO

INTERNAL SECURITY

TEN KENATEDI

TOP SEGRET

1990

L6Z8REP/

NOV 8

SSIER ON: DADR

Ambassador to U.S. advised (45

his country! 8/20/60 Senator John Kennedy delivered speech to

Zionist's Congress re solution Arab Israeli dispute.

mbassador stated speech contained fallacies and exaggeraced ..

statements and promises.

Ambassadorl subsequently cöntactedl

Chairman, Foreign Relations Committee,

who apologized for Kennedy's speech and explained it was dictated

by political expediency.

CLAS

DECLASSIE

by Senator J.W. Fulbright

on 9/22/60. Natlonal Security Agency furnished an

intercept of

traffic from

ITS)

dated 8/20/60,

classified "rop Secret Daunt" as it

relates to communications intelligence

nons areas

According to the intercept

Ambassador claimed

Senator Fulbright stated Kennedy's speech was not an expression

of what could be considered

policy of Democratic administration

with Kennedy as President.

Ambassador

reportedly advised Senator FulbrighteTS

INC

'of (Ambassador's official

displeasure with Senator Kennedy's(TS

speech as it was replete

with fallacies and bias and disparagements

•regarding

rights and disregarded

feelings thus indicating

Senator Kennedy places personal interest before justicé and

nterests of U.S. Senator Fulbright was advised continued efforts

o obtain Jewish votes at expense of Arabs will have serious con-

sequences, and

Ambassador expected Senator Fulbright to exertTs

efforts

such activities.

attempt to comply with this request t

• INFORMATION CONTAINED

Ambassador advised his superiors Senator FulbrightLTS,

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

contacted him probably

after consulting with Senator Kennedy

WHERE SHOWN OTHERMISE

whose speech was motivated by Senator Kennedy's desire:: to

obtain Jewish,.

Catholic, and Negro minority votes in order to

compensate for his loss

votes among Protestant majority which

opposes Kennedy

because, of his Catholicism.

The Ambassador was

VERCASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR 3 26 47

7314

•(6 DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

43198 nde

SECRET (TEK)

NOT RECORDED

46 ост 3

SEP 29

SZOCT? BRACOPY TO ME. TOLSONG

ORIGINAL COPY FLED

)

-376

HH

55355

DooId: 32285482

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memo_

Donahoe to Belmont

RE:

REACTION TO

SPEECH OF SENATOR JOHN KENNEDY

JFK ACt 6 (1) (B)

of the opinion purpose of speech was solely to obtain Jewish

votes rather than to formulate party or governmental policy.

He believed such speeches are

consistent with Zionist's efforts

to create breech between

and other governments

(u)

It was opinion of

Ambassador that Senator Fulbright's @3]

visit with him not be disclosed.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

XE (4)

Ізра

0/24

TOP SECRET

-2-

55355

DooId: 32285482

Page

---

