# docid-32184363

## Page 1

Releared under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Dot of 1902(14-U5G-2107 Hate.

DATE: 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10240-10073

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 105-3702-803

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG. MX

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1964

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 105-82555-3596

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/01/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32184363

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE S' 11-14-2017

ariad!

Director, FBI (105-82555)

Legat, Mexico (105-3702) (P)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS - R - CUBA

April 28, 1964

6/3193

Classified by 9803 Ral sel

Bartassify on DADRA2. JFK

ENCLOSURES

Enclosed herewith to the Bureau are twelve (12)

copies of a letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned

as above.

DECLASSIDIE

55668-540/sde

REFERENCE

ON-

JER

Bureau cable, 4/20/64.

ADMINISTHATIVS

As the Bureau is sware, all Investigative personnel

of the Mexico City office have participated in various phases

of the investigation in lexico with respect to captioned case.

In the interest of security of Bureau operations in Mexico,

It has not been deemed advisable to list for the Presidential

Commiesion the identities of all Agents of the Mexteo City

office,

and for this rasson only those Agents who conducted

substantive investigation in which representatives of the

Presidential Connission displayed a definite interest have

been listed in the enclosed letterhead nenorandum..

For the information of the bureau, the identitles

of all other Agents in the Maxico City offfee who have

conducted investigation in connection with this case,.

together with a brief outline of inquiries carried out by

them, are recorded hereinunder.

5 - Bureau (Блсв. 12)

(1 - Lilalson Section)

(2 - Dallas, 100-10161)

- Mexico City

Rul: jhk

(6)

10 STA

3204 - 80₴

SEARCHEY

SERIALILEO

Confident 1a2

-DocId: 32184363 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releas

Note)

inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colléction Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Considentiall

MC 105-3702

SA RICHARD S• CLARK

Conducted inquiries at Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico,

regarding VICTOR COHEN, concerning whom one ERNESTO

FLORES

LUNA directed a letter to Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY.

SA MATTHEW D. CRAWFORD, JR.

Interviewed Dr: EDUARDO BORRELL NAVARRO concerning

allegations by one SALVADOR DIAZ VERSON regarding associations

Of OSWALD in Mexico City with SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN and

officials of the Cuban Embassy.

SA NATHAN L. FERRIS

Received from informants VEX-18 and |MeX-19/ several

reports concerning reactions and speculation within the

American Communist Group in Mexico (ACGM) concerning the

assassination and OSWALD's visit to Mexico. Among ACGM

associates mentioned by informants were CHARLES SMALL, KURT

ODENHEIM, ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA and JOSEPH and REVA FRANK

BERNSTEIN.

Received several reports from informants (EX-467R5.)

with respect to the background of PEDRO GUTIERREZ VALENCIA

and inquiries relating to other aspects of investigation

in Mexico:

SA JOSEPH B. GARCIA

Handled liaison

with the

Mexican Ministry of

Government, receiving copies of documents and data from

Licenciado

(Attorney) LUIS ECHEVERRIA, Acting Minister, and

the Sub-Director of the Department of Immigration, Licenciado

RAFAEL HERNANDEZ OCHOA.

Also handled liaison with the

Mexican Federal Security Police and arranged for delivery

of a copy of the signed statement of SILVIA TIRADO DE DURAN

by Captain FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS.

_2 -

Contidentials

DocId: 32184363 Page 3

---

