# docid-32293115

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10391

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-81285-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/18/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

REW, LTR, REL, EXIT VISA, INS, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HW 45984

DocId: 32293115

Page 1

---

## Page 2

g-Clear. 9

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office. Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

DATE: August 18, 1960

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

SUBJECT:

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - R

(00: CLEVELAND)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFICI

DATE E14-44 BY SOSMAL

ide

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead

memorandum concerning the subject.

The source contained in this letterhead memorandum is

a source of information of the Cleveland

Division whose identity is concealed at his request.

The letterhead memorandum 1s classified confidential inasmuch

as the information furnished by

could reasonably

result in the disclosure of this source of continuing value

and jeopardize his future effectiveness.

The information contained in the letterhead memorandúm

is taken from autostatic copies of letters from the subject

to his parents and were furnished by subject's father with

The autostatic copies

maintained in the Sub A section of subject's file in the

Cleveland Division.

No further investigation is being conducted at Cleveland in

this case and this case is being carried in a closed

status.

JFC/pan

(4)

ENCLOSURN

REC #1105-51285-47

25 AUG 22 1960

5 DAUG 26

AGENCY

REQ. REC'D

Cir Stale,

DATE FOR. AUG 2 5 1961

HOW FORW.

c-G-1, 0-off 0-14k

NW 45984 DocId: 32293115 Page 2

OTHER 4

105-83

UNREC COPY AND COPY

---

