# docid-32338641

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10059

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45838 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/25/1957

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 45838

DocId: 32338641

Page 1

---

## Page 2

JIM: BEK

NY 100-65568

Law 10(a)2

SECRET

For information, subpoenas for their appearances before

TRA SOBLE: JACOB ALBAM

tal, were served on

on 2/12/51 in Mexico where subjects have been

iving for sometime.:

Since that date subjects have made legal

efforts to avoid appearing before the FGJ, PAUL O DWYER,

brother of WILLIAM O'DWYER, former Mayor of NIC, having acted

i del attore dudes ate slap date see ted to appear.

for appearance of subjects was

On 4/1/57 subjects were served with order to show cause why they

should not be cited for contempt; order returnsole 4/15/57.

4/15/57 order made returnable 4/25/57. In view of latter,

U.S.A.

seeking to find property of subjects in amount of $100, 000 for levy.

Above should be interviewed for any information he or she

might have regarding ALFRED STERN and his wife, MARTHA DODD STERN,

including their background, activities, associates, friends,

fInancial transactions, domestics, any typewritten specimens of

the STERNS, contacts with soviet or Satellite diplomats or

nationals.

Information indicating any possible espionage or

, subversive activity on their part, ete. Particular attention

should also be paid to any possible documentary evidence or

potential witnesses regarding CP membership of STERNS, as possible

perjury indictment may be considered. Information indicated

both ALFHED K. STERN and MARTHA DODD, prior, to their marriage,

were active in anti-Nazi work in Germany.

They were married in

June 1938. It is known VASSILI ZUBILIN and subsequently JACK SOBLE

acted as Soviet espionage superiors of STERNS in the 1940's.

CS

PAR 15 (conceal and paraphrase), who has advised that the L5.

Tollowing statements may not be used in any court proceedings

in the U.S.-but may be used merely as a source of leads and for

cross-examination, has advised that JANE ZLATOVSKI, admittedly

active on behalf of Soviet Intelligence Service, has stated that

one of MARTHA SIERN's main functions was the recruitment

soviet agents and she allegedly proluced man rectiolony.

availabe information should also be obtained concerning ALFREI

STERN and MARTHA DODD's activities in Germany in the 1930°s;

concerning MARTHA DODD's activities in Washington, D.C., in the

late 1930's and concerning both STERNS activities in NYC and

elsewhere, subsequent thereto,

It is noted both STERNS have

been reported to have been members of the CP.

Indices should be reviewed on the above individual,

or individuals, and unless information in the files would

preclude it, interview should be conducted and photos exhibited.

Surep•

, KELLY

CrOI

10a2

- 2

45838 DooId:32338641 Page 2

---

