# docid-32310231

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10302-10175

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-172694-40

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/14/1968

5

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 11/05/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LTR, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32310231

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John f, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 476101-7952 4117656

DATE: 11-14-2012

Hote) .

1

Mr. V. H. Nasca

11-14-68

SAC, Miami (2-192).

kiS 110 REG A7

Director, FBI (205-172694) - 4

Confidentiat

INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMUNIST BRIGADE (IACB)

NH - CUBA

Reference is made to previous comunications concerning

tho captioned anti-Castro organization. U

MI-5 (describe as a confidential source abroad) on

November 6, 1968, furnished the attached

report concerning the

arrest of Frank Fiorini and bis associates in British Honduras.

The pertinent portions of the data should be incorporated in the

next report submitted by your office and the MI-5 data carefully

paraphrased to lurther protect the source. (()

Enclosure

ALT. INFORMATION CONTAINDD

FEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIDD EXCERS

VHN : sd

(4) * TERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Deciessify on: OAb2

APPROPRIATE AGEN

VETES

AND FIELD OFFI

ADVISEC BY MA:

STIP (8) 03

DAIE

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohi--

Bishop

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

•Feli

dale

io Rosen

Sullivan.

T'avel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

MAILED 10

NOV 1 3 1968

COMM-FBI

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDED BY.

REASON FOT

FCIM, 11, %-"

DATE OF BE*

DECLASSIFICALION

...

114/989

NOV

MAIL ROOM LV

Confidential

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32310231 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

CONFIDENTIAL

RECE

Our Ref:

PF.

711

6th November, 1968

International Anti-Communist

Brigade (IACB)

Organizacion Ejercito Secreto

de la Brigada Internacional

Anti-Communista

(Secret Army Organization.of

the International Anti-Communist

Brigade)

Let to

sAcmm

11-14-60

Please refer to your memorandum

15889 of 8th October, 1968 and our subsequent

conversations about the arrest of 13 persons,

pose

believed to be U.S. citizens, in British Honduras

I now enclose a note from my

colleague in Kingston, Jamaica, which may be

of interest to you.

OPY

2-15-95

FBI INFO

Classified by SP8-Moc

Mdc

Declassify on: ONOR 55K)

MI-D

EX

110

NOV 8

1968 REC

58/05-172624-48

enc

OSURE

ENCL

€ NOV 1B 1968

CONFIDENTIAL

10501786860

DocId: 32310231

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the Join F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE :

11-14-2017

ARREST OF 13 ARMED MEN IN BRITISH HONDURAS

HIOH

Five of these men including FIORINI were arrested on boardia yacht

called the "amigo" in Belize Harbour on 24th October.

The "Amigo" is a

privately owned boat from Progresso on the northern Yucatan coast of Mexico

There was also on board a crew of a captain and one

other both of whom are

Mexican citizens who had been forced against their will to take the boat

down the Yucatan and British Honduras coastline.

The five men including

FIORINI all claimed to be U.S. citizeng.

Following infornation provided

by the two crew members, another eight men who also clained to be us.

citizens were picked up on a small cay off the British Honduras coast

together with a snall quantity of arms and ammunition.

All thirteen men

have been charged as being "prohibited immigrants" which the Police consider

to be the relevant charge under British Honduras law.

FIORINI was identified by a Special Branch officer from al photograph

in a newspaper clipping found in his possession.

originally Ea

the

name Frank/ BONELLI.

He subsequently admitted that he was

n fact IORINI

Identification of some of the others is still in doubt as it is suspected

that they have provided false names and particulars.

one of then

has admitted to beine Max CORMAN @ Maximillian GONZALEZ. Others who have

probably been correctly identified are:-

Mickey Roland

SAPP

Janes. Walter WELLS

James Edware, HOLTSHAUSER

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIF SPS-Macrde

DATE 215-95 Br01

ERR)

the names provided by the remainder were:-

arles William dAt

ichard Gale BRoT

Franklin Delano HOLBERT

Ernest Ray MANNINC

3.

Four of the thirteen vere interviewed in Special Branch

29th October and the following conclusions were

reached as a result of

these interviews:-

stated that he was named Frank FIORINI: at birth

and changed his hané legally in Norfolk, Virginia some

years ago to Frank Anthony STURGIS following the remarriage

of his mother. FIORINI gave the impression of being a

professional

"con" man who is prepared to

story suits him.

He was in charge of the party and may

have been the only one who knew precisely

He claims that after meeting two other boats east

of the isles of Turneffe it was their intention to join

the two boats dispensing

with the "Amigo" and then proceeding

the possessions of the five men on

board the yacht was found a map of the Caribbean with three

pencilled arrows pointing

towards the northern coast of

The arrows had been drawn carelessly and did

not indicate any particular places on the coast.

/(b)

DocId: 32310231 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Pleased under the donE

DATE:

2017

ssassination Records Collection Art 01 1992 (11 USC, 2107-Mate).

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2-

(b)

FIORINI and GORMAN @ GONZALEZ are long standing members of

the Secret Army Organisation of the International Anti-

Communist Brigade.

The man HOLBERT seems to have acted as

a recruiting agent for FIORINI®

Recruitment to the Organisation was carried out by

newspaper advertisements in the Florida area and by

personal contacts.

FIORINI seems to have been the main

figure in this insofar as these particular men vere

concerned.

(a)

Apart from FIORINI, GONZALEZ and possibly HObBERT, the

members of this particular group appear

co be of fairly

low calibre.

They were probably attracted by the prospects

of money and adventure and some of them would probably have

been equally attracted to a purely crininal venture.

(e) They had all been promised by FIORINI substantial paynent

in return for their services but those interviewed

that they had in fact been paid nothing up to date.

(f)

The arns they were carrying were in some cases the personal

property of members of the group who had

carried them with

them fron Florida

(8)

Certain members of the party crossed the U.S./Mexican border

carrying these firearms.

All members of

the party probably crossed the U.s./Mexican

border by road at Bronsville, Texaß.

The Organisation clearly has some funds available to it, but

FIOPINI's claim to have fifteen million U.S. dollars in

for aid to political prisoners is more likely

than true.

It is reasonably clear that FIORINI and CORMAN @ GONZALEZ

intend to continue their anti-Castro activities.

Ist November 1968

CONFIDENTIAL

105172694-40

DocId: 32310231 Page 5

---

