# docid-32290068

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10202-10344

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-33-307

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/07/1962

PAGES: 72

SUBJECTS :

THP, GAMBLING ACT, CORRUPTION, PROSTITUTION,

RACKETEERING, STATE OF LA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1a, INDEX PAGES I-IX

v9.1

HH 45760

DocId: 32290068

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (Rev. 5$12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTiNG OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

3/7/62

* 2/1, 3/1/82

REPORT MADE BY

SA REGIS I. KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

gar,

CRIME CONDITIONS IN LOUISIANA

AR

REFERENCE

Bureau airtel to Albany, 1/30/62.

_COPIES MADE

DATE? - 24-78 BY

FOR REVER AT DOING MCAN DELIVERY

TO NSCA RECUOCST DAICO -

(SEE BUFILE 52-117290)

INFORMANT'S

former CI.

T-2:

PCI

JFK Act 6(4)

T= 3:

PCI

1.,

T- 4:

T. 5:

JOSEPH BRANDT, SA,

Intelligence Unit, Internal

Revenue Unit, New Orleans, La•

JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, Deputy Sheriff, Jefferson Parish

Sheriff's Office.

NO 5- C

T. 6:

PPROVED

SPIES MADE:

SPECIAL.

AGEN

N CHARGE

BUREAU

NEW ORLEANS

.12:

92-346)

(1:

92- 346A);

: 1:

92-346B)

61:

92-346C)

(1:

92 346D)

61:

92-346E)

1: 92-346F

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

62-9-33-30

1ã 6 MAR 12 1962

+X-109

15/1/

REG- 54

1 0-6

1 2

5001533

EMINATION RESTRICTED TO JUSTICE DER!

nor its contents are to.be d

ted outside the agency to which loane

74 45760

DocId: 32290068

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-346

INFORMANTS

(cont 'd)

/JEK Act 6 (4)

T-7:

.T-8:

To 9:

T-10:

T-11:

T-g2:

T-13:

T= 14:

T-15:

T-16:

T-17:

• T-18:

T-19:

JOHN VINCENT, Manager;

Pendleton Detective Agency

PCI

NO 1082-C

PEI

DRURY THOMPSON, Legal Division

Southern Bell

Telephone & Telegraph

company

NAURBON L. PERRY,

Special Agent, Intelligence

Unit, Internal Revenue Service,

New Orleans, La.

PCI

LLOYD MC COLISTER, Agent, Intelligence Unit,

Internal Revenue Service, Baton Rouge, La.

PCI

NO 1169-C

Clerk' of Court, Vermilion Parish

PCI

ADMINISTRATIVE

The New Orleans Office, by letter of 12/21/61,

informed the Bureau that Mr. EDWARD J. ROUSSELL, Chief,

Intelligence Unit, Internal Revenue Service, New Orleans,

requested the New Orleans Office withhold investigation

of

JEK Law 11(à)

REVIEWED BY

FLUFK TASK FORCE

N

9/10/88+

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 45760 DooId: 32290068 Page 3

COVER

PAGE

62-9-33-301

---

## Page 4

NO. 92-346

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont'd)

In view of the injunction issued by Judge J. SKELLY

WRIGHT, USDC, EDLA, on 11/1/620

a new case is being opened

entitled, "ALCIADE GUIDRY, ICA-WIRE SERVICE," and the U.S.

Attorney will be contacted to determine if the injunctior

applies only to GUIDRY orto any bookmaker who may be accepting

wagers on races run at Jefferson Downs Race Track:

A new case is being Opened entitled, "ESTER CRIST,

IGA-WIRE SERVICE,"' in an effort

to identify her or the in-

dirtuals using her telepich pransalt wagering information.

A case has been opened captioned, "UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

UNKNOWN VICTIM, IRBY HEBERTo normant, STA, to determine

extent of prostitution activities in Vermilion Parish, it

being noted that HOBERT, WhO is designated NO T-18 in

this

report, has indicated there is considerable prostitution

in Vermilion Parish.

A case has been opened captioned, "FRED FERRIS, ITWI,"

to determine the extent of the gambling activities of this

subject, it being noted that the subject is a gambler in

the Shreveport-Bossier City area and went to Monroe, La.,

to collect a debt of over

$3,000 owed to FERRIS by W. H.

SMITH, a Monroe gambler.

southern eno one

The source of the information secured from the

Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Company, New Or leans, as

set forth in the body of this report is Chief Special Agent

T. CHANDLER JOSEY, SBT&T, New Orleans •

Attached to this report is a letterhead memorandum

characterizing the informants used in this report

COVER PAGE

-307

HIH

45760

DooId:32290068 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-346

T-18 is a personal friend of DAVE RuSSo,

owner of Falstaff Distributing. & Bottling Company of

Abbeville.

- RUSSO is also a friend of CARLOS

MARCELLO.

Rosse said he had to pay MosS and SANDOZ

$100 a week to operate a wire service to Jefferson Downs,

Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, from Abbeville.

operated from the Four Way Club until it burned down

about eighteen months ago. He operated out of another

club for two months after the Four Way was destroyed,

or until MOSS and SANDOZ told him he would have to pay

$200.00 a week.

RUSSO refused to pay that amount so

he discontinued the wire service and, since that time,

he nor anyone else in Vermilion Parish has been active

in wire service.

T-2 tried to persuade RUSSO to go to

the FBI, but RUSSO claimed he did not want to contact

the FBI.

The two known places where prostitution

is active are atyray,'s Lounge, which at one time was lif

operated by FRANCIS/LEJUENG,

and the Bonanza Lounge

which is operated by ELlASy BOUrQUE.

Both of these clubs

are located in or near Kaplan..

T-18 was unable to name

the "pimps" or prostitutes operating in Kaplan. It is

felt that most of the girls come from New Orleans.

VI. LAKE CHARLES, LOUISIANA, AREA

A.

Graft & Corruption

MIKE HOGAN, Chief of Detectives, Lake Charles,

Louisiana, advised February 20, 1962, that gambling existed

in Lake Charles and Calcasieu

Parish, Louisiana, prior to

1951. Evidence was presented to the Federal Grand Jury

at

JEK Law 10(a)2

which sentence is now under appeal to the U.

So.

Circuit Court of Appeals.

=53.

62-9-33-307

NW 45760 DooId: 32290068 Page 5

---

