# docid-32333341

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90106-10197

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-117222-217

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1965

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333341

37

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

wrote soro

GSA_GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-117222)

DATE: September 30, 1965

FROM

W

SUBJECT

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-6323) (P)

COMANDOS' L

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Talsl6!

(00: NEW YORK)

424

(3FK)

Enclosed for

the Bureau and Miami are nine and two

copies respectively of a letterhead memorandum dated and cap-

tioned as

above.

SJ

T- 1"15

former PSI, 70 Venus

Street,

Request.

Sa

Teresita, santurce,

Puerto Rico (Protect by

OTHER 4

SJ T-2 is RAUL FERNANDEZ SILVA, Manager, Occidental

Life, Room 312, Imparcial Building, San Juan, Puerto Rico

(Protect by Request.),

(U)

Local dissemination is being made to ONI, OSI, INTC,

INS, Coast Guard and Customs.

SJ T-2, RAUL FERNANDEZ SILVA, advised that Comandos

I left

the Dominican Republic at the request of "u.S. Govern-

mont Officials"

and had entered an agreement with certain

"U. S. Government Officials" whereby Comandos I agreed not to

launch any attacks on vessels at sea. Also Comandos L agreed

not to launch attacks from the sea on vessels berthed in Cuban

ports. Attacks on these vessels from land was not prohibited in

the agreement.

In return for compliance with these restrictions,

Comandos I would be allowed to enter Florida ports with ther

mother ship for the purpose of securing fuel and provision

RATION CONTAINED

Copy to.

Date.

By l

& Remarks

WEN

CIASSIFIED

Tle: 105-17222-217

, 21ª) SAN JUAN DIVISION:

REC 14

DOW ILEFT DIA

VECID

1

OCT 11. 1965

Bureau (Enc.

(RM)

Miami (Enc.

EX-103 12-15-80

2-

San Juan

CLASS. & F7?

info

2 X ERUX Copies made

REASON-ICIS

IF :ms

ISDIY.

DATE OF ROY

Cale

INFO

(6 Деру

CIA/ Statey RAO

ONI/OST/ ACSI

DrACustoms /USCE

cordinator

PRIAT.

"by routing slip for into.

Date..4a118/65 brit

affairs State

157

Can. CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45773 DocId: 32333341

Page 2

---

