# docid-32307227

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10367

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 62-75147-210-1, 3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, HAVANA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/25/1952

4

NRO, ASSOC, SMO, GAMBLING, B/F INT; SANS SOUCI NIGHT

CLUB, HAVANA, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NOTE, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32307227

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reçords COllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

a is to bert go Chapers, a discon

DocId: 32307227

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

L 'ANDARD FORM NO. 84

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

TO : Director, FBI

DATE:

July 25,

1952 Clevin:

Hario.

Havana,

FROM:

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba

((64153)

Rosch.

Tracy

SUBJECT;

AMERICAN CAMBLING INTERESTS IN CUBA

FOREIGN MISCELIANEOUS

i Mi

Nir. lohi

NIr.

ile. Room.

..11.

TO: CONTATIOS

According to all available information, the gambling concession at

the Sans Souci Night Club in Havana is backed by money of the SA MANNERINO

gang of New Kensington

Front man for the concession at the sans Souch ,

is NORMAN ROTHNAN.

One of the chief sources of income for the concession at the Sans

Souci is a game called "Razzle Dazzle" used at carnivals and similar

entertainments. It is based on a doubling up principle and so far as we

have been able to learn locally, the sucker never has a chance on this game.

The Embassy has received numerous complaints here from American tourists

who have been taken in amounts from a few hundred dollars to several thousands.

ERE SAUWAS

MARCIS

EXCE

DIHERW

From the standpoint of the concession, the chief drawback of the

game is the fact that the loser usually does not have sufficient cash money

to pay his losses and gives the club a check. Usually, the following day

when the sucker has had time to sober up and realize he has been taken, he

calls or wires his U. S. bank and stops payment on the check. The concession

has

little recourse against this action since the check represents a gambling

lOSS.

131-95

JFK

7-23-52, former NYC-25, who presently resides in Havana and

whose

laentity, is known to the Bureau advised that he had learned that the

folloring scheme has been thought up to try to get around the

gambling loss

angle:

(e)(U)

A

corporation separate and apart from the one which operates the

Sans Souci is being set up and will operate as a check cashing and collection

agency.

This new corporation will bave an office at the Sans Souci and when

a sucker reeds money to pay off losses, the corporation will cash his check.

It will be emphasized to the sucker that the check cashing office has

nothing to

do with the Sans Souci operation and that the operation is

strictly one of exchanging a check for cash money.

By doing this it is

hoped to get away from the fact that the check covers a gambling loss and

thus to have a legal recourse in the courts in the event payment on the

check is stopped.

The corporation will also have an office or offices in

which payment has been stopped without

M

# 211326

Gassifies by

Source said that he had been told that one of the principal figures

in the new corporation will be one DICKEREYnOLDS.

He described this indi-

vidual as a special investigator for the Miami Daily News and a "shake

down artist." (6)(4) INDEXED-€&

Juan

urse

RECORN 0-86

ASK THE

CDA: JES

Reus

44.2

BECORDST

or coview

5115/40

DocId: 32307227

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act o1 1992 (44 USC- 2107 Hote) .

DATE:

11-14-211.

TANDARD FORM NO

Office Menwrandum • UNITED STATES GOVERWMENT

TO

FROM :

Director, FBI

CONTA

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba

DATE:

HAL

SUBJECT:

AMERICAN CAMBNING AC

ISTEN CUBA

• MIr. Glaria. -

September1161 19521

Havana,

Cabarass

Mr. Lau?'..

ir. Mohr.

Dir. Wineroird.

- FOREIGN MISCELIANEOUS

ERE SHOWN

MinE

OTHERWI

62-951

I l tate too sate

Re Havana letter to the Bureau July

25 last which furnished

ground information on sone of the American gambling activities in Cuba.

on 9-1252 C. I. HAV-ll advised that he had learned that the Sang

Souci Night Club in Havana is having considerable financial difficulties

and that it appeared that a new management might be taking it over.

mill be recalled, NORMAN ROIFMAN has been fronting at the Sans Souci for

the MANNARINO interests

of New Kensington, PA. Source said that he was

told that ROTHMAN and EDDIE

ALTMAN, ROTTMAN's assistant at the Sans Souct,

had gone to Miant on 9-11-32, taking with them all the books of the Sans

Souci. Source expressed the opinion that they might be doing this in order

to run out on any debts that

the operation of the club.

Source said that CHARLES F. "CHUCK

REMER, Who had fronted at

the Sans Souci a couple of years ago, had been in. town looking over the

situation

and looking possibly toward the resumption of the management of

the club.

-31-4

On 9-15-52 source advised that ROTHMAN had come back to Havana

and that he had brought the word that the man who will be backing the club

for the coming year is one ANDREA. Source said that he had been unable to

get any additional information other than that he Is supposed to be out o

Chicago and to one a home in Miami Beach. (W

The above is submitted for the Bureau's information.

An extra

copy of this letter is attached for forwarding to the Miani office with the

request that that office furnish any information Coming to 1ts attention fI

182143

Class illed

Declassity OH: 0445 / 22/35

Stir Miriam

CC: 1P RECORDS 166

CDA & JES

DEXED K16hK

3715/82

3

CUURIDENTIAL

DocId: 32307227 Page 4

---

