# docid-32307892

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10293-10250

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-2449

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

[Restricted]

DATE: 11/22/1968

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

4

LCN, MEMBERSHIP, NARCOTICS TRAFFIC, CRIMINAL ACT,

INTERNATIONAL MOVEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LTR

v9.1

DocId: 32307892

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

Releasen under

DATE: 11-14-2017

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotel.

92-6054 2449

REC-31

November 22, 1968

AIRMAIL

EX-103

Commissioner R. W

Whitrod

Commonwealth Police

Box 339

Kingston, A. C. T., Australia 2604

SO 6M. EB

My dear Commissioner:

Reference is made to your letter of November t, 1968,

your tile 100/1.

Regarding the request contained in paragraph 6 of your

letter that you be furnished with a summary of the antecedents of

leading Matiosi in this country, I regret to advise you that we will be

unable to do this. As much as we desire to assist you in this matter

of mutual interest, allegations of "Mafia" connections have been

received concerning such a great number of persons that it would be a

practical impossibility to assemble the personal background data in

question.

MAILED A

NOV 251968

holy

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Bishop

Casper

Gall ah an

Caprad

Felt

Cale

Rosen

Sulliven

travel

Trotter

Tele, Room

Holmes

Gondy

Any relationship of persons engaged in organized crime in

Australia with those similarly engaged in the United States would

naturally be of interest to us here, as well as of interest to you.

Wherever beliefs of such activities come to your attention, we would

appreciate receiving the information available to you and will be happy

to reciprocate in furnishing you all pertinent data in our possession

concerning the individuals named.

VEG,O

Your letter of November 7 1968, appears to indicate a

prime interest in the illicit traffic in narcotics, which prompts me to

suggest that you may desire to communicate with the Bureau of

Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, which is also a part of the United

States Department of Justice.

That organization may have information

NOTE: See Page 2

MENDINO WOUN

1 - Liaison Section

CLG:jny

DESI 06 1924146

MAIL RO

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32307892

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Commissioner R. W. Whitrod

of value in line with your request because of the nature of the narcotics

traffie, which often involves international movement. It is suggested

that you write directly rather than having your letter of November 7, 1968,

forwarded because of the possibility that you may have specific infor -

mation in this field which would be of value to the Bureau of Narcotics

and Dangerous Drugs in responding to any request that you may make.

Again, I would like to assure you of the desire of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation to cooperate fully with you in matters

of mutual interest.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover

Director

NOTE: Commissioner Whitrod's letter indicated that his organization is

already in possession of the reports of the hearings before the Permanent

Subcommittee of Investigations of the 'Committee on Government Operations

of the United States Senate (McClellan Committee) in which Joseph Valachi

and others gave extensive testimony concerning La Cosa Nostra membership

and activities in the United States. In his letter, Whitrod indicated a prime

interest in narcotics traffic and requested to know the genetic antecedents

of leading (Mafiosi) La Cosa Nostra members to determine possible

relationships with persons in Australia. FBI investigations have shown no

particular value in gathering such information and is not available in most

instances, nor set up in such a manner that it can be readily assembled.

Our investigations of La Cosa Nostra have not indicated any liaison with

similar elements in Australia.

-2-

92-6054-2449

383-10320

DocId: 32307892 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination. Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) s

DATE: 11-11-2017

1035

C, MMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA

339

BoxXO Kingston, A.C.T. 2604

Telephone: 9 0051

Telex: Cals, 201

CRIME INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

Crime Intelligence Section,

45 Jardine Street

KINGSTON, A.C/T.

In reply, please quote:

100/1

7th November, 1968

The Director,

ederal Bureau of Investigation,

WASHINGTON. D.C.

20535

U.S. A.

14 1968

Dear Mr. Hoover,

Cosa. Nostra

As you are aware my organisation is currently

investigating the background and activities of the Mafia

and similar Italian criminal societies in Australia.

My officers have been studying the development of

the Society in the

U.S.A., and with

the aid of the Senate

Papers on Organised Crime and Illicit Traffic in Narcotics,

a picture of the operations in your country has been evolved.

the narcotics

Due to the history of the Society's involvement in.

traffie between Europe and the U.S.A. it seems

Likely that the society is connected with the ever increasing

amount of narcotics reaching Australia.

4.

As reported in my letter to you dated 7th March 1968

there is recent evidence of prominent members of the Australian

Society visiting the U.S.A. and Canada, which indicates

collusion in the mutual interests of the Society.

The indices of my Crime Intelligence Section contain

this juneture something in excess of 11,000 Italians of

Sicilian and Calabrian extraction,

and I have no doubt that

there are genetic connections with Itallans currently active

in the U.S.A.

Mafiosi

In order that I may pursue this line of enquiry, I

would be pleased if it were possible for you to supply me

with a summary of the antecedents of leading Mafioso, in

particular date and place of birth and full names of parents,

who have come to your attention since cho appalachin mates ea

REC-31

- 6054

DocId: 32307892 Page 4

25 NOV 14 1968

---

## Page 5

Keleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

-2-

7.

Any information you feel able to impart will of

course be treated in the strictest confidence, and I shall

be only too willing to reciprocate in a manner to our

mutual benefit.

Yours sincerely,

K. L. Milte Supt.

Gr B. W. WHITROD

924054-2449

349

DocId: 32307892

Page

5

CECRET

---

