# docid-32191905

## Page 1

Noten

John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

14-2017

OR DOORDON UNDIDLUM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10256-10339

RECORD SERIES:

WMFO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: CR-SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

TITLE: CR 105-47283-1-408

DATE: 12/03/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: LHO, POST-RP, TRA, ASSOC WITH DURAN, SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

10/27/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

.

DocId: 32191905

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hoted.*

DATE: 11-14-2017

ATE INFORMAZION CONTAINED

ARREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED rECEPT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS

CASRE SHOWN OTHERWISS.".

CLASSIFIED UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED

WASHINGTON, D.C.

DECEMBER 3,

1963

LESDAY

22-9-94

Massified *y

05-AmBlude

Declassify

DAIR JFK

12/3/63 MEXICO SUMMARY

(WF 1409-S36)

10:53 AM

DE ANZORENA

LEO GOODMAN

(PH) at the vANd

(5)

2-0G

27-48

DE ANZORENA)called to acdept an invitation for Saturday at 7: PM. CSJ

noNal reserred de sending some letters confirming his sue astiasS

to the mexican Govt to build fresh water (atomic) reactors.

Mex 656,J10:45 AM, One of the letters was sent to CARLOS VILEZ (PH) CS]

3 member of the Staff of the Mexican National Nuclear Engrgy Commission

VElDas here in Washington now and GOODMAN is introducing him around Sy*

He is here on a special assignment to the latin Amurican Nuclear CS

Energy Commission to make a study on use of atomic energy outside the

US in the Western Hemisphere.

DE ANZORENA] says that he forwarded all the information sent byes

AUODMAN to ORTIZ DIRADO (PH). DE ANZORENA asks 11 GOUDiAN has seen

pho is in something very interesting. (S

GOODMAN has not seen DELOSA but knows heis here.

He is working for XS

a "strange man"

"very mixed up human being", ADAM CIAYTON POWErS.

The job DETOSA has will give him a chance to do something about the

(53

migrants.

THey

agree to meet Saturday.

(ENGLISH)

KUM

DAFE

3:35 PM

1-BNOrC

37 - 38

BEN WYER) is conversing with Minister

EUGENIO DE ANZORENA.

(MEYER) is a

correspondent of Associated Press)

MEYER has apparently asked for DE ANZORENA'S reaction to rejection by

FPM-met

the Mexican Government of the Cuban Note or Protest delivered to the

1 12/4773

Mexican Embassy in Havana (NoV 26 last) relating to alleged mistreatment

by interrogating Mexican Officials of a MRS. SILVIA DURAN (PH)

Mexican, employee of the Cuban Consulate in Mexico. She was quéried

relative to her handling of a transit visa request shibmitted Sept. last

by LEE HARVEY OSWALD, alleged murderer of PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

DE ANZORENA/

reads from what,

appears to be a Mexican News release (S) =

CLASSIFIED 8Y 5668-

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X,

reporting that the Government yesterday categorically rejected the

Cuban note because of the unacceptable teras in which it was drafted.

DE ANZORINA reports that the Mexican Foreign Minister MANUEL BETIO, CS

with the authority of PRESUDENT LOPEZ NATEOS,.

ordered the Mexican

Ambassador in Havana, GILFERTO BOSQUEZ (PH) ,

to return the note

of the Cuban Minister of. Foreign Affairs, PAUL ROA.

TELLO told a

press conference at the palace that the note could only be received if

it were drafted in accordance with diplomatic norms. 105-47283 Sult

SEARCHED m

Classifieu

Draglesalty sa:

PAND

3

SERIALZEE/MAS.FLEO.17142

DEL 4

196c

CONTINUED

MOX 700

F31 - LAKH. F. O.

Перідся

DocId: 32191905

Page 2

---

