# docid-32339279

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90146-10111

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-93072-136 THRU 3RD NR 144

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CREGAR

TO:

BRENNAN

TITLE :

DATE: 02/24/1966

'PAGES:

58

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 15 MEMO, 9 AT, ITINERARY, LHM, LET, FLYER, STATEMENT

r...

v9.1

WW 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Mr. Sullivan

SECRET

C. D.

Brennat

AEL INFOSTATICA COSTRICED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE

SHOWN OTHERWISE.

1/20/68

1 - Papich

1 - C. D. Brennan

1 - Bashes

REVOLUTIONARY ACTION

MOVEMENT (RAM)

INTERHAL SECURITY - RAN

Reference la made to

• Papieb

a to D. J. Brennan

menorandon dated

1/12/87 whoreds it

is roported the

Contral Intolligence Ageney (CIA)

has volunteered to

• bries

Bureau Agents concerning the nature and extent of CIA's

rolntionhip with their informant.

SOGAs,

This

VAS

suggested because SUGAR's activities may toach

Interest in the

black nationaliet novenent E

SUGAR 1s cryptonys for Richard

Thonas

formerly involved vich the Fair Play for Cuba Committee,

and woll know to the surea.

In 1063, he offered to

furnish infornation to the Bureau in return for money

but not because of allegiance to the United States.

is a percon of no moral iiber and we obvioualy

declined

his offer.

CIA has boen attempting to operate

Gibson

abroad as, an informant since

1065 and his status as

Government informant is well

known to black nationaliat

Eroups in the united States S

The Bureau does not

Share CIA's contidence

in Gibson and in vier of his reputation sa blac

nationalist eroupe,

there appears to be no value

being briefed by CIA as to their plans for Gibson.

Such

a briefing could put us in a position of Joising or

supporting CIA in their

operation of Gibaon which vould

be highly undesirable.

RECOLMENDATION:

That S. J.

Papich, CIA Itaison

Agent, advise

than tha

Bureau is not interested in being brioted by

CIA concerning their plans

However, CIA should

be advised we are interested in receiving any information

xolipt liomGD!

Date o! Declassilicadio

PT3: deh

(5)

105-93072

(SUGAR)

13070

167 SẢN 27. 1967

11378

11...

SECRETA

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONTAINED

HERENTS URINAOCIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN- OTHERRISE.

1/18/67

Ciasslesty

Exemptfrom

SAC, Chicago

(100-42353)

Director:

T'BI

(100 442715)

SECRET

S

AD

HOC CONMITTEE FOR A

MARXIST-LENINIST PARTY,

INTERNAL SECURITY • C

bISA

1

- Mr. Mossburg

Evan

APPROTRTAIE ACENCIES

AND FIX

15-18487(5)

CING

SLIP!

DAT

specstige

ReCGlet 1/4/67 which furnished a

COpy

a lotter

received

by Richard/ cibson/S

the Chicago Ad Hoc

Committee

post office bon

Authority 1s

• Branted: for you to include the

incaviauais an Sweden; Denmarle, and the Philippine Islands

roferred to the hd Boe Cormittee by Gibson on the nailing

Ilst of the Ad Noc Connittee,

To is suggested you taclude

a briet statenent of the objectives of the Ad Moc Commuttee

with the intlot mailing to these individuale and that you

indicate

their nanos vere referred by "an taglish comt ade.

Inasnuch as Gilson appears

to be publiciaing the

Ad Hoc Committee abroad and because he has referied

Nersist-Leniniet contacts and Laterature to the Connittee,

the Bureau is inclined to believe he should be replaced on

Ad Hoc: Conmittoo malting liet.

In the event you believe

he should not be included on the mailing list to receive future

Litexature of the Ad Hoc Committee, you.

should advise the buroat,

chemise 13s nane should be replaced.

DR :scr (9)

1/- 105-93072 (Gibson)

NOTE:

Ad hoc Committee is intelligence operation of this Bureau

directed to identify pro-Chinese Comunist intelligence

political activities. Gibson is à source of CIA operating from

England as a European pro-Chinese Communist.

Last summer he

established contact with the Ad Hoc Committee and asked to be

placed on its mailing list.

He was removed from the maling list

in November because Italian Marxist-leninists suspected he was a

CIA source.

As Gibson is furnishing valuable intelligence informatio

to the Ad Hoc Conmittee and enabling it to expand its foreign

contacts, it is felt he should be again included on the mailing

list to receive Ad Hoc Committee literature.

We will be most

Cautious in dealing with Gibson through this operation.

105

JAN

SECRET

OUPLICATE YELLOW

NOT RECORDED

174 JAN 19 1967

55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 3

---

## Page 4

1/9/67

AIRMAIL

SECRET:

ATL INFORMAT ON CONTANEO

HEREIN IS UACLASS FIED EXCEFT.

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FDI (100-156243)

FROM:

LEGAT, LONDON (109-3772) (P)

PROPOSED WAR CRIMES TRIBUNAL ORGANIZED

BY BERTRAND RUSSELL FOUNDATION, LONDON,

ENGLAND

IS - VIETNAM

REGISTRATION ACT - VIETNAM

(00: NY)

Clanstled by

Exempt trem CDS. C

3113/

Re London airtels 12/16/06 with enclosures,

12/9/66,

and 12/8/66 with enclosures.

The contents of reforenced airtels,

IF's and enclosures were obtained by

MI-S from a well placed and

comparatively new secret source.

Subsequent communications

will also indicate certain

On 1/3/67

" subject of

Bufile 100-98072,

Is the source of the information set forth

in referenced communications, and that the sub-source, which

will be subsequently mentioned

in MI-S communications, is a

source developed by "Sugar."

CIA stated that because of the political situation

in England concerning the Tribunal, CIA, who handled "Sugar" in

this country, furnished information received from him to MI-5,

and has authorized MI-5 to disseminate

the information as though

it came fron a source of theirs.

CIA, London, furnished the

above information because of awareness

that this office receives

such MI-S reporting and forwards it to headquarters, where it is

undoubtedly disseninated, thereby duplicating CIA disseminatio

: - Bureau (1 - 105-93072)

Paris (105-2514) 1131

Lialson

11319

2 - London

(100-3772 )eclassify

(100-2611)

5093072°

NOT RECORDED

128 JAN 18 :566

Ll: cn

('8)

SECRET

17 JAN 2 7 1967

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 4

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 5

LON 100-3772

This office was advised that CIA Headquarters

definitely disseminates such information to the Departnent

of state and to the Bureau. U .14

In view of the above this office will no longer

set torth in LAM's information received from "Sugar" or his

sub-source ACE.

SECRET.

SECRET,

H# 55509

DocId: 32339279 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TO

FROM

SUBJEC

Krempt troi

caregacy

OPTIONAL FORM.NO. 10

5010-106

MAT 1YO2 291101

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HGREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

So Do Jo Brennan, JeM

: So do Papic

SECRET

DATE:

1/5/67

1 ' C. D. Brennan

(Shadelford)

1 - Liaison

- Mr: Papich

Tolson -

DeLoach -

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tavel

Trotter —

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUGAR"S ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT WITH

THE REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT

C.

Reference is made to Bureau letter to CIA dated

10/7/66

The Liaison Agent periodically has been

checking

with CIA for the purpose of obtaining replies to

several

questions presented in the referenced communication.

On 1/4/67 the Liaison Agent discussed this matter

with Cal Tenney, CIA, at which time he expressed concern over

CIA's delay in replying to us.

It was emphasized that we were

extremely interested in obtaining the answers since the infor-

mation could be most useful to us in following the black

nationalists activities in the U.'

S. The Liaison Agent

commented that if CIA's informant, SUGAR, had developed

information of interest to us and

not been reported

co the Bureau, we obviously would have been

wheels" for the last several weeks. The Agent refere a to

the specific questions raised by us and placed particular

stress on our interest in any information developed by CIA

concerning Ernest Thomas.

The Agent stated that any contacts

bets tho

and SUGAR

should be reported to us as soon as

Tenney received the foregoing comments as a specific

complaint and then advised that CIA very definitely was not with-

holding any information and was not involved in any

He admitted that CIA has considerable difficulty

in handling and communicating with SUGAR: In this connection,

he stated that for security reasons a CIA intelligence officer

meets with SUGAR about once a month. CIA has not been able

to meet with the informant for the past two months.

Therefore,

it is possible

SUGAR may have some

the Bureau.

S

REC-42

information of interest to

105%

93.082-14

Tenney stated that ba fully appreciated the

Bureau's

position in this matter and he personally-was taking

steps to push for replies to our questions as soon as possible

JAN TO 196/

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the

The Liaison

SJP: rab

(4)

ClassHiz by Sa&MACIGAT

1 2 1967 Declassity on DADR

JFK

SECRET

5485

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SEANS

Mr . D. J. Brennan, Jr.

ALL FORMATION CONTA*FO

HERER IS UNCLASSIFISO EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWS OTHEReISE

1/6/67

S. Jo Papich

SECRET

REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT (RAM)

Tenney, CIA, advised the Liaison Agent on

1/5/67 that

of CIA records has failed to disclose

an earn to date to eh astor a from, lil

attention

The above information

* 01

the

Internal Security

being directed to the

Section.

C. D. Brennan (Shackelford)

Llaison

Mr • Papich

105-93072

100-442684

SJP:rab

(5)

ORIGINAL FILED I

+00-44-265 m

49

cassifla by Sp& MACGAT.

Declassify

/JFK)

Cias sified by

Exempt tromGos,

Drian: Osclassilica

13113/18

105-93072

NOT RECORDED

120 Ji: 10 L95.

185

53 JAN 1 2 1967

SECRET

NW 55509 DooId:32339279 Page 7

---

## Page 8

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 30

OSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

#NITED STATES' GO RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

inh

SAC, CHICAGO

Stil

(100-412715)

(S)

IN DATE:

11/17/66

TRORISTON CONTANED

(100-41353)

EREIN

. IS UNCLASSIFICO EXCEPT

HERE

SHOWN OTHENWISE. SECRET

SUBjECT:

D HOC COMMITTEE. FOR A

MARXIST-LENINIST PARTY, USA

1(5)

RICHARD BIRSER

Re Chicago letter

11/7/66.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau and New York is

a five-page statement dat

tober, 1966, under the caption:'

"Richard Gibson Reports.

This document was

received through the Ad Hoc

Committee Post Office Box in Chicago

and is submitted herewith

for the information of the Bureau and New York

FANCIES)

00 S

APEROR!

NG

AN: 30 0

ENCLOSURE

Records:

DATE

Place ce 121708 (Willed)

105-93072

100-4426846 Rain

1910 9+D

-1-9109.

Bureau

2) (RM)

- New York

1

(C00-154902) En01 2) (R$)

- Chicago

Blem

Coltera

WAStA

FX-I12

REC. 10

Bulgue

12 NOVA 21 1966

RRG: mhim

2/13/95

Declassify

Xered copy

922

q+D

_OADR

436

ECA

1966

SECRET

classtiled by

Exempiliem GD5

Da's o: Declussit

105÷98072-

NOT RECORDEL

H8S NUV 30

1963

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 8

1003/5

ORIGINAL F

100-442515-

106₴

---

## Page 9

Richard Cibson Roports

international nows.& leatures

MERE IS UNCL

.N9S FIED

uba:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

SECRET

October 1966,

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WIERE SHOWN

ROBERT F. WILLIAMS: "SECOND EXILE"

OTHERWISE

Afro-American Leader In Drilo Leaves Ouba for China

by RICHARD GIBSON

W1lllams, Chairman-in-Exile of the militant all-black.

Revolutionary

obert nation Movement is the united States, had left ridel

Castro's Ouba for what he calls a "second exile" in China.

Former President of the Union County, North Carolina Branch of

Sche National Association for the

Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)

Williams,

who is now 41 years old, fled to Cuba in 1961 when local

police and the Federal Bureau of

Investigation sought to arrest him

on charges of kidnapping a white couple during a racial clash in

williams

hometown of Monroe, N. Co

In those days, one of the proudest boasts of Ouba's revolution

ary leaders was that they had wiped out racial discrimination on

1slard, and 1t certainly seemed to be true.

Although few black

Abads

were among the leaders of the revolution, the revolution

quickly gained support from

the country's large black population,

Und in the United States, It was no accident that Fidel Castro re-

ceived an enthusiastic welcome from the blacks of Harlem in 1960,

while anti-communist whites picketed evarywhere else he went in New

York City. It was no accident that Robert F. Williams should flee

to cuba to continue his struggle.

He had been one of the founders

of the nor defunct Fair Play for Cuba Committee In the United

States: eight of whose original 30 founding members were Negroes,

including such well-known writers as James Baldwin, Julian Mayfield

and John Killens.

such Negro participation in a movement not directly

related to the civil rights struggle was virtually unprecedented.

"ahe Epirit of the 26th of Jult"

4/9/9 Sp&mAC/GAT

After his arrival In Havana,

Declassily on:

where he was joined shortly there-

after by his wife: Mabel and their two young sons, Williams resumed

publication of his monthly newsletter:

The Crusader,

in April 1962

at length persuaded the Cuban

Government to allow him to broad-

cast to the United States several

times weekly over Cuba's "Radio

Prcgreso."

He called his program

"Radio Free Dixie" and its tone

was set in Williams•

first broadcast of July 27, 1962,

the day after

grandiose celebrations of the ninth anniversary of the beginning of

the cuban revolutionary struggle against the Batista regimee :

So1rit of the

26th of July is no longer just a spirit for cuba or the

Cuban people," Williams deslared:

It is a spirit for all of Latin

105-93072

ENCLOSURE

1003(5)

SECRET

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

merica, for Asia, for Africa.

Yos; and for the down-trodden and

Sopressed black people oi

the

U. Sodo whose lives are valued less

than common street dogs."

on August 8, 1966,

Williams remärked bittered at a rally in

socialists, we thought to be comrades and

class brothers, have joined the international Ku Klux Klan fraternity

for white-supremacy world domination.

To our consternation, we have

discovered

the bourgeois-oriented power structure of some

socialist states, even one with a black and white population, would

prefer

to preserve

the white reactionary anti-communist power

structure in racist America, their natural national enemy, than

see a just, democratic, fraternal Socialist State brought

about by

the revolutionary

action of oppressed blacks that would serve the

best interests of all people of all races:

parts that they love to ape so well, even to the point of emulating

their racism, they are noving might and main to frustrate and defeat

the revolutionary movemenis of the oppressed peoples throughout the

world."

The Dream of the OPUSA

The rally had been called to celebrate the third anniversary

of Mao Ise-tung's "statement Calling on the People of the World to

Unite to Oppose Pasial Discrimination by U.S. Imperialism and Support

the American Negroes in their Struggle against Racial Discrimination,

made on August 12, 1963 in reply to a request by Williams. Although

given extensive coverage in

the international press,

other publications of the U.S. communist Party ignored Mao's State

merito Milliams had never been close to the CPUSA and the Party's

Leaders made no secret of their fear that the black militancy that

Williams and the late Malcolm I were advocating might destroy Ior.

"Negro-Labor Alliance

might eventually dominate the Amcrican political scene.

In the years between 1962, "non Villians arrived in Havana, and

1966, when he left fo: China,

there had been occasional signs of per-

sisting racial antagonisms in Cuba:

There remains open social pre-

judice against mixed marriages.

Blaci: lower ranking Cuban Army

officers,

said to be sympatheii: to the militant Chinese position in

the sino-soviet dispute: reportedly had serious difficulties with the

regime.

In 1964=

Carlos More, a young diro-Cuban of Jamaican origin,

violently attacked the Cuban Government in an article in the Paris-

Cast "french" speaking Arican review Présence Africaine, charging

"there has been

absence oi proletariane revolution .

explains the

• To Cubans in

the affairs of the

totalidiotar

torship of the proletariat? and the:

the openly anti-comunist

govement to the revolution By

alleged that the

merely another attempü by white cubaes

to maintain their traditiobai

regemory over the blacks on ths isiand

SEC

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

a letter to me on

#ejected More's extremist views.

September 7, 1965, Willlams categorically.

Williams added that More had

got too much

truth mixed

in with his exaggerations for comfort.

W1lllams added: "1 lot of things I have tried to conceal, but the

case looks hopeless.

It seems that:a certain group here is trying

to compete with Mississippi."

Williams visited

China twice before deciding to move there.

His sons were sent to a Chinese sohool before then,

When he did

ask for permission to leave

Cuba: he was prevented from doing so for

many months.

And his

Cuban hosts suggested that he ought to return

to the United

States, despite the warrant for his arrest on kidnap-

ping

charges.

Reaching China at last, Willlams set down some of his reasons

for leaving

Juba in an anguished 16-page, 8,550-word letter to 11de-

Castro on August 28, 1966.

But the Cuban Embassy in Peking refused

to accept the letter for transmission to Havana and it was sent by

ordinary airmail. ' In October,

receiving no reply from Havana,

Williams released the text of

the lotter

Declaring that he would "always be grateful to the Cuban people"

for assisting him to escape from the U.S.do, Willlams told the Cuban

Premier he was writing because he could not

beliève that those around

Castro had Informed him truthfully of the

"Ignominhous experiences

that I encountered while living in Ouba.

"A New Fascist Iendency" In Cuba?

Outlinine 1n detail more than a dozen specific grievances,

Willlams declared that he hoped

"these demoralizing and agonizing

experiences do not indicate a net fascist tendency on the part of

the Cuban Revolution.

The only complaint that I make to you is on

behalf of my people, the 1fro merin people who are engaged in a

U.SoAn I make this complaint because of the fact that your gover-

ment has allowed saboteurs to sabotage our struggle and have set us

back for a number of years and have allowed them to frustrate and

demoralize our people in our struggle against our oppressive enemy."

Williams said that many promises made to him by Cuban officials

not been kept and many of his legitimate requests had been re-

He was never allowed to open an information office in Havana

to tell the world

merlean struggle de ithe revolutionary potential of the Afro

He was restricted to using only the progressive

ly weaker longwave facilities of Radio Progreso and never permitted

to broadcast over shortwave on Radio Havana,

the official government

station.. Even the promise $200 a month to purchase records and

publications for use on the progiam was no kept. And when listeners

3

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 11

---

## Page 12

SECREN

pegan to donate records and other materials, much of this was stolen

In the Cuban Post Office and even from the pouches of the Cuban

Foreign Ministry, Willlams charges.

Unlike other Americans living in Cuba, Mrs. Willlams was never

authorized

to visit Canada on business for her husband. Williams

remarks:

"I laïer discovered that this was just a plot to try to

wreck our struggle and to crush our organization,

and was done in con

junction with forces inside the U.S:, including

the U,S. Communist

Party which was opposed to our method of struggle and

whioh advocated

a policy of non-violence in support of Rev, Martin Luther Kings

There were increasing difficulties in getting Ihe Crusader

publisheds

"There was always sone excuse about paper, or we had to

go through a lot of red tape which would make it impossible to

pablish some Issues while others came out extremely late," Williams

writes.

He adds "hat, when a so called "October 1o65 special

of the Crusader was forged and distributed, containing

attack on

Soviet Union and surreptitiously anti-China and oce

designed to make my exile in Cuba difficult,

he had no cooperation

from the Cuban Communisi Party in making a public announcement about

the forgery.

Moreover, mail was heid up or even returned to senders. Long

distance telephone callers were sometimes told that Willlams was un

available.

When Williane requested permission for some members of

isis Revolutionary Action

. Movement and Negro Journalists to visit

cuba for talks with him!

the request was refused, although some of

these persons had already travelled as far as Mexico City and Prague

er route to Cuba.

the Tricontinental Conference was held in

Havana in January 1966, not a single American Negro newsman was

permitted to attend and Williams himself would not have been allowed

into the conference 1f some friendly African delegates and a Puerto

Ri can delerate had not protested against his exlusion. White Ameri-

can jourtr

wis were present, horevai.

"The conference was being

manipulatod especially to heco Mira-contoas out and this was being

Wiilians tells at length now Cuban officials refused to investi

gate his charges that a lanzanian newshan, I. H, Mansur, had received

and a coied nessage fron him

to be sont to some lfro-American

people working in the struggle to hela shen ouü,

i Holthar the money

Blains that age ever reached far Yere, Mallang malatains. He also

secret organizational information

with a high-ranking Ouban official,

Commandante Piñeiro,

that he had filed

was later

oynically cited to ne by ail official. of one of the so-called free

world embassies in Havana.

When he was asked to make a speaking

tour in sweden, the riban Coverment refused

. to allow him to travel

there.

receiving

la small

sulpend in Pesos as the goverment's support of me and my activities

in behalf of the diro inericar people,.

that he refused to continue

accepting the stipend,

Fan) at

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 12

---

## Page 13

*....

One Guevara's Disappearance

SECRE

The only Cuban official who "showed any genuine interest in our

struggle, and who had really promised to help was Commandante Che

Guevara,

Willlams writes.

He recalls how Guevara had told him that

he would be returning to Havana from a trip to the interior of Cuba

in 30 days and would help Williams then.

Guevara said he was not

leaving the country.

"My interview with Commandante Ohe Guevara was

one day before the letter that you read from him over the radio and

television was dated,"

W1ll1ams tells Castro.

Willlams adds! "I find

1s because I wonder if

alla hard to bellove nep reason that I bring this up at this time

did not meet foui play in the interior

and that may be the

same people who contrived his disappearance may

be pianning to do away with you in the same manner.

In conclusion, Williams explains he is writing to Fidel Castro

because of his personal obligation and loyalty to the Cuban Revolu

tion

and I hope that I will be more fortunate in reaching you than

I was

n the more than four years that I resided in Ouba.

I hope at

least this time you will feel that what I have to say is important

enough for a personal response and I hope you will not commit this

dogenerate, counterrevolutionary agents of U.S. imperialism who are

¿merican freedom struggle

Robert Williams still waits in Peking for an answer from Fidel

Castro or any other official of the Cuban Government.

That silence.

lusalf marks a turning point in the Cuban Revolution and certainly

the end of the special relationship of Cuba's present leaders

with black militants in

their neighbor to the worth.

74 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 13

---

## Page 14

TO

FROM

SUBJEC

OPILONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY

1962 EDITION

5010-106

GoA JEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT.

Memorandum

D. J. Brennan, Jr.Jf

DATE:

11/14/66

S. J. Papich

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SECRET

Tolson -

DeLoach -

Mohr -

Wick -

Casper -

Callahan.-

Conrad -

Felt.

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

Trotter .-

Tele. Room

Holmes -

ndy

SECRE

Clasalliad!

For some time the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

has been exploring ways and means of trying to move their

informant, SUGAR, to Hanoi and Red China.

On 11/8/66, Cal

Tenney, CIA, advised the Liaison Agent that certain CIA intel-

ligence officers were exploring the possibility of developing

SUGAR as a significant figure in the Black Nationalist movement.

the CIA people felt that SUGAR,

possibly, could be used to create a split in the Revolutionary

Action Movement (RAM) and that he might even utilize Robert

Williams in bringing about such a development. Tenney stated

that some of the questions raised were:

Does the FBI believe

that a split, such as visualized, would be a desirable develop

ment? What is the Bureau's estimate of the feasibility of

attempting to accomplish such a split? Would the

Bureau

desire that CIA direct sUGAr as suggested above?

Pursuant to a discussion with the Internal

Security

Section, the Liaison Agent informed Tenney on 11/9/66 that

CIA appears to have an erroneous conception of the true status

of the Black Nationalist movement in the U. S.

It was pointed

out that this movement has no base of substantial strength, it

is very much fragmented, and any objective to promote a split

would result in something of little or no value.

The Liaison

Agent further stated that as far as we are concerned, Robert

Williams does not have any particular stature of significance

in the Black Nationalist movement in this country.

S

The Agent then emphasized that the Bureau

very

definitely

does not share CIA's confidence in SUGAR.

He further stated

that the Bureau very definitely would not join or support CIA

in any plan as described

above.

The Agent elaborated by stating

that under no circumstances should CIA assume that we are

directly

or indirectly furnishing

any approval to any such scheme

SJP: jad

(6)

Classified & by

Declassify

1 - F. J. Baumgardner

1

- D. Ryan

1

- R. L. Shackelford

Liaison

1

S

1966

REC- 120

;

7105.0

193072-4

CONTYNUTE 1966 OVER

SECRET.

NH 55509

DooId: 32339279

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Memorandum to D. J. Brennan, Jr.

RE :

SUGAR

Tenney stated that the Bureau's views certainly

made sense.

further advised that if,

by chance, CIA

became involved in any

plan as outlined, the Bureau would

be immediately alerted

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the

attention of the Internal Security Section. y

SECRET

Ban

2-1

SECRET

HH 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET

Alztel

11/7/66

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIRED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP1

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

1

-

Mr. Mossburg

1

Mr.

Ryan

DANCIES

CES

LING

iteratess

To:

SAC, Chicago

(100-41353)

Fron: Director, FDJ| (200-442715).

AD HOC COMMITTEE FOR

MARKET-LENINIST PARTY, USA

INTEINAL SECURITY - C

2(5)

(s)

APPROPRIA

AND FIEUD O1

ADVICED BY

SLIP(S)

DATE

that

Richard Gibson

ReCGairtel 11/1/66 sotting forth your recommendation

list

be doleted from the Ad Hoc Committee malling

Authority le granted to delete Gibson. u

received any responso fron the

For your information, the Bureau has not to date

Central Intolligence

Agency

rogarding allegations that Gibson is a Central Intelligence Agency

source, which were developed by CG 5903-S abroad.

advised of any pertinent information recolved in

You will be

you should promptly advise the Bureau of any information

this regard, and

indicating Gibson continues to be

pro-Chinese comunists abroad

accepted or is rejected by

H13

Clagulfled by

Exempt from Cbs,

Declassity on:

Cued D9034

Gibson,

who was

formerly active in the domestic left-wing

bone mattonalate and wro Chiness excanizatloss.

currently is operated as a source against European

traveling as a representative of the intelligence ARC, CG 5908-5

was advised by

formerly otiso in toot to sord

Italian Marxist-leninists that they suspected

Gibson of being a "CIA spy." It was necessary for the informant

to relay this information to the Belgian Marxist-Leninists.

By letter dated 10/24/66, we advised the Central Intelligence

Agency of the allegation

concerning its source.

We are deleting

ORIGINAL FILED IN

Gibson from the AHC mailing list because it would not be in

character for our allegedly pro-Chinese organization to maintain

correspondence with him after being alerted he may be a "spy.

( - 105-93072 (Gibson)

SECRET

DR: 1mm (6)

105:232%2

F-385

NOT RECORDED

98 NOV 9 1966

NOV 161966mmd.

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 16

---

## Page 17

NITED ST

'*

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(100-4427:5

Cris

FROM

SAC, CHICACO

(100-41353)

SUBJECT:

E0-18

DATEX hJ/7/66

SECRET ALL INERATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

IS UMCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

APPROPR

MAGENCIES

AND FIE

PINES

ROUTING

211.

Aly

00.302228

AD HOC COMMITTEE FOR A MARXIS

LENINIST PARTY, USA

IS - C

SITPIS

DARE

2 Y

On November 3, 1966, CG 6547-S furnished material

had

received through the AHC Post Office Box in Chicago.

Among

the material was a letter from RICHARD GIBSON dated October

25,

State men WaL ROBERT DONGTAN

to the Committee a 16 page

the statement of tiLLIAN

concerns

the problems that he had when he resided in Cuba.S

it

would seem probable that through the wiLLiAms ietter

the Chinese are attempting to show the Asian-African world

that:

S

CHi

22.

C

That Soviet and bourgeoise influences

have undermined the Cuban revolution

Cut.

105.09

2

A revolution to be successful must

be a

continuing thing and must be led by true

Marxist-Leninists

3

That the Chinese are the true friends of the

Asian and African

This letter could: be considered in the nature of

ounterintel

ligence move directed by the Chinese against

he Soviets

105-93072

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau and New York is a

xerox copy of

the

letter from GIBSON and

WILLIAMS

the 16 page statemedt

9 4

NOT RECORDED

Bureau

167 DEC 20 1966

-

New York

2)

100%/

(RM),

54902)

info.)

1

- Chicago

RRG: mac

(4)

213.5

classify

DADR

100-44

1310.08

NOV 1 0 1966

mitchur

•DEC 22)

ENCLOSURE ATTACROM J 29 M

Classifiad by

Gramot trom.cd

SECRET.

Dug d' De:

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

3/1

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 17

ORIGINAL

---

## Page 18

Bt abed

OLEGEEGE-PIDOG

60555 M

PLASSHED INFORMATION ENGLOSED

Classitiod by

fron

77"

ais was wo won ente

532)

11613044

---

## Page 19

iNt

I, Stooles all

9AR0e 419926.3030

29727

25 "Cotober, 1965

10 Poo. Courietee for a Harmist-Lentnist Party, U.S.1.

2.0. Box 5123

Chicago,

Il?.

60680

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEU

Dear. Comradeg

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEP}

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Robent Milliane bes asked ne

to circulate copies

of tue enclosed letter he unove from Feling

to Fidel

Castro..

Tou

may have received a copy of this importont,

21

fainful,

document

sanectly, out I am sending you this

the sale side.

you well lnon,

4870-Aericans

were promicent in

the vanguard of progrescive North Anericaas mho supported

the diban

Revolutiön

"bowels of the tonsuci,

vosedare colled the U.S.d.. It was no accident that.

Fidel

Castro was acclained In Horlen oy black people in

that Rob Willians soould lee to revolutionery

Oubs in 1961, wer

whats racious aud the z.B.I.

sought

are we lose on eyelationary andos sad

since 1201, many persons dave

vigor ar Cuba.

this letter,

Milliams nosely colates

some of the obstacles that weis laid in his pata,

TO DIE-

vent bin fron successfully continuing bis strugsie comm

Cuba.

Willians deliberately cirains fron daring

political conclusions in this lettes, but I do not

how we can fail

to draw those recessary conclusions and

a result,

over harder against the revisionist

allies of U.S. inperialisa.

If 1a Hoc would like to put Robert Willians oaits

mailing list,

you can don reach hin at g. Tai Cas. Chang,

Pening.

I gave him your address long ago and when thai:

Crusader-in-Bile 1s again published, you will be o11ts

mailing list.

A note about Rob's letter to Fidel: the Cuced Subassy

Peling. refused to

accept it

and transcit it to savana.

the other head,

1t is worth sorossing that seither Pos

nor I bolieve that the

popular forces that made the Mbas

Revolution can be so easily defeated by opportunisn and

sevicionist seduction.

The Ustin

Ameri can

struggle

revolutionary

against u.s.

imperialism

victory,

a victory

that woula 311

vill surely contique vatil

Ion the

the closer ii it were not

treasoa of the revisionists.

1112/96

Declassity on

OFK

Fraternally

Rickend

Gibrar

Is charg

SECRET

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 19

---

## Page 20

BEC

ALL INFORWATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASCSIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

BY LIAISON

: (85) 305-93072

Date:

To:

From:

Subject:

october 24,

1366

Director

Contral Intelligence Agency

Attention: Doputy Diroctor,

John Edgar Hoover, Diractor

RICHARD GIBSON

INFORUATION CONCERIING

Plans

1 - Liaison

1

- Ur. Cotter

1 - Mr. Ryan

(S)

Clausti

exerant from Ce

jolson

reLoach

lohr

lick

jasper

allahan

sonrad.

felt

jale"

asen

allivan

rotter.

ele. Room

olmes

andy

A source of this Burenu who has furnished reliable

information in the past rocently advised that during the

Pall of 1966, a member o2 an Italian pro-Chinese Harriet-

Leninist organization stated that one Richard Gibson vas

suspected of baing a spy for the Central Intelligence Agency.

According to this individual, Gibeon recently had been in

milan, Italy,

ol a female secretary from Paris,

whose home is in New Rochelle, New York.

As that time

Gibson ronarked his

travel and activittes vera possible

because ho had married @ vcalthy English wonan.:

things

vere said which aroused the

suspicions of the Italian.

According to our source, the Italian pro-Chinese

Marzist-leninist subsequently relayed his suspicions concerning

Gibson to Rene Raindorf, a womber of the Central Connittoe.

of the Conmnist Party of Belgiun (Marxist-Leninist):

Raindors reportedly thoroatter net in Brussels, Belgiun, with

Gibson although he had indicated the Belgian pro-Chinese

communist

would look into the

charges of the Itallan Marxist

Leninist

8 308m0-14

EX•104

1 - 200-442715 LANC

(S) iva

DE: 1mm

(7) 1112195

Classied by SpE MACGATU

Declassify

013

OADR

18 OCT 26 1966

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

-54628

Excluded

op automatic

doungradi

and

declassifigation

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

COPY, FILED IN

100.

HH 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET WA

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

NONG:

Gibson is identical to a CIA source who operates in

Europe in the pro-Chinese communist political field.

information above was received from CG 590ß-S, a representative

of our intelligence Ad Hoc Committee, fron members of the

Marxist-leninist pro-Chinese communist grouping in Milan, Italy,

The informant was instructed to convey the information to the

Belgian Marxist-Leninist grouping and he did so in order to

protect his security. We are furnishing this information to CIA

in praphaned for to protot the identity al our Intorant g

Classified "Secret" because previous incoming so

classified and because this letter relates to an operational

Central

Intelligence Agency source as well as an intelligence

operation of this Bureau of continuing value.

The exposure of

SECRET T

HH 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 21

---

## Page 22

DIRECTOR, FBI

(100-442715)

SAC, CHICAGO

(100-41353)

SECRET.

10/26/66

ALL INFORMATIOA CONTAINED

WEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

HERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

0-4422151

959(S)

LIST PARTY, USA

Re Chicago airtel 10/19/66. U

Attached hereto is a xerox copy of a flyer captioned

"Solidarity with Paulino Garcia Moya and His Comrades"

which

was received through the da logislattee Post Oifice Box on

October 24, 1966, from RICHARD™

This is submitted

for the information of the Bureau.

- Bureau (RM)

1

- Chicago

RRG: mac

(3)

ORIGH

APPROPRIADE

ADVANCE 37 ROU

STARS) OT

DATE

issilication

105-93072

11020g

Declassity on:

OADR

JFK

Classilled by

Eremperrom GDS, Ci

Drino: Coulassifica

440

1S30

Pin BiT

ENCLOSURE

E310K

NOV 211966 pe

HH

55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 22

---

## Page 23

SOLIDARLIY WITH PAULINO GARCIA MONA!

AND HIS COMRADES

"public ordon aurics the second half of Detober, the Spanish Court of

in Madrid will try seven anti-fascist Spaniards, arrest

ed because of-their political opinions and their opposition to the

bloody Franco dictetorship.

A communique of the Executive Committee of the clandestine Comnun

ist Pariy of spain (Harxistylenintat), on 23 Sept 1966, disclosed that

LauLino carca Moya, a veteran of

the spanish Civil War, and hix other

comrades had been accused of the

"crimes"

illegal propaganda. Garcia Moja, who had emigrated to Colombia after

spending-three years in a fascist prison at the end of the war, was

also accused of returning clandestinely to Spain.

The public prosecu

tor has asked the maximum sentences of 13 years for Garcia Moya and

eighe years and five years for his companions,

The arrests and the forthcoming trial have attracted great

attention in Spain and elsewhere in Europe.

This trial was to have

taken place on 4 October, but the sudden withdrawal of the group of

Christian Democratic lawyers who were to have acfended the imprison.

ed Marxist Leninists forced a postponement..

The lawvers attempted

to justify their withdrawal by stating their disaprroval of the revo

lutionary programe of

the communist Party of spain (Marxist-leninist).

Garcia Moya had returned to Spain from Colombia following the betrayal

of Marxism-Leninism by the Carillo clique.

He devoted himself entire

the reconstitution of the Communist Party of Spain on a Marxist.

Leninist basis.

Garcia Moya and his comrades were fighting for the expulsion of

eso armed forces fron

Spain, the nationalization of all U.S,-owned

enterprises, the etablishnent of a Federative Republic recognizing

the people'

s right to democratic freernme of conscience, press,

associ

ation and the right to strike and najo? social reforms: an agrarian

reform,

workers'

control of industrial production, a 40-hour working

week with a decent minimum wage and equal pay for men and women, bro.

tection and credit facilities for small businesses, radical reforn of

tax laws and the social security, etc. and the emanicipation of women

and other progressive demandse

Comrades, send your petitions, protests, demands for the liberation of

these

seven anti-fascists to la Voir au Peuple, 65 rue des Palals.

Brussels 3, Belgium or

"Action pour la

a Paix et l'Independance des

Peuples,

103 rue Belliard, Brussels 4, Belgium,

SOLIDARITY WITH GARCIA MOYA AND HIS SIX COMRADES!

SOLIDARITY WITH ALI

THOSE WHO FIGHT RESOLUTELY AGAINSI THE FRANCO DIONATORSHIP:

1TT: INDORUATION CONTAINED

"-SREIN IS

UNC

AESTHET

2A25/1219

BY SO& MAO CAT

(JFK)

ENCLOSURE

105=

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NUREIN IS

INCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WA

ISRE SHOWN

'OTHERWI SE

73079

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Paqe 23

---

## Page 24

Classi

10/26/66

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

Airto2 105-93072

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

3 - Mr. Ryan

SECRET

To:

SAC, Chicago

(200-41353)

Director,

PB3 (200-442715)

(s)

APPROPRIATE

AD HOC COMMITIDE FOR

AND FIA

INTERVAL SECURITY - C

ENCIES

ICES

BOUTING

unselicatin

ReCGairtel 10/19/66 relating to correspondence

received at the chicago ad doc Committee (AIC Post ortice

Box iron Richard Gibson of London, and Leo Ven wol of

Rotterdam, who is atfiliated with the Dutch pro-Chinese

communist organization.

The Bureau

believes you should include the addresses,

as furnished by Gibson, Of Robert Willlams in Peking, and of

Bulletin" and other generally disseminated AlC ilterature. 11i

you deem it appropriato, you may include a note with the

initial copy of the "Ad Hoc Bulletin" mailed to these individ

uals indicating that they have been placed on the mailing list

at the request of "A friend in Ingland."

You should note the

Peking address of Robert

Williams, as furnished by Gibson, is

the same as that of Anna Louise Strong,

who is already included

on the AHC mailing 219t.

The nome of Strobl, with a different

address, was previously furnished to G 6547-S by Gabon/ 5)

The Bureau

has no objection to your continuing

Gibson on the AHC mailing list to receive copies of the "Ad

Hoc Bulletin," but under no circumstances should any other

correspondence be

The Bureau must be advised

hy the most expeditious means warranted in the ovent Gibson

again communicates with the AHC.

I = New Yorts

(2100-154802) (5)

105-93072 (Gibson)

DR: ank/rwi

(8)

SECRET

classida

Declessify ons

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

(JFK)

ORALIATE VELLOWE

5.3 NOV

1 1966

4/3.

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Airtal to Chicago

RE :

AD HOC COMMITTEE

JOR A

MARXIST-LENINIST

11002440715

PARTY,

SECRET

The Bureau

concurs with your recomnendation that

the AHO respond to

the lotter received from Van Zwol,

he be advined it is not necossary to advise Gibson of 11tera-

tuáo

sent to the AfIC and that such material should

continue

to bo directed to the ANC Post Office Box.

Additionally, the

AFC response to Gibson should respond to the other questions

rassed by ven wol.

Submit

this proposed draft of this AlC

letter to the

Bureau for prior approval before mailinger

e previously instructed, you acoula endeavo

ubmat the text or proposed routes to communications receive

fron foreign pro-Chinege

communist organizations and individuals,

well as from domeetle organisations and their leadership,

the Bureau for prior approval when reconmending responses.

This will expedite

the malling of ARC responses

NOTE:

Gibson is a confidential source of CIA who is active

in European pro Chinese communist circles.

Our AC informant.

CG 5908-S, was advised in Europe in 9/66, by the Italian

pro-Chinese communists, that Gibson was suspected of being

a CIA "spy" and this information was transmitted to the Belgian

Marzist-Leninists:

We are directing this operation to avoid

association with Gibson although he is being retained on the

AC mailing list for authentication purposes.

Gibson is in

personal contact with Van Zwol.

We are continuing our AHC

correspondence with Van Zwol for there is no information indis

cating he is other than a legitimate pro-Chinese communist of

potonial value to the obsctive of tide oporation (g)

SECRET

NH 55509 DocId:32339279 Page 25

---

## Page 26

FD-35 (Her. 5-22-61)

FBI

Date:

10/19/66

Irensmit the following in .

SECRET.

Vie

: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

:

SAC, CHICAGO

D( SUBJECT: AD HOC COMMITTEE

ALL IMFORMATION CONTAINED

(Type in plaintext or code)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

(Priority)

- APPROPRTAT ACTANCIES_

AND TTED Q

leon

1100-412715721 02

(100-41353)

IS = C

For the Bureau's information there is set

forth below the complete

text of

letter from RICHARD

SCISSON, whose identity is known

to

the Bureau.

letter

was received through

Ad

This

Hoc Committee (AHC)

Post Office Box on 10/4/66.

W

Exemptlien

Da:z.0/D

"Ad Hoc Committee for a Marxist-leninist Party

Bor 6193

Chicago, III. 60680

"Dear Comrades:

"30, Stockleigh Hall

Prince Albert Road

London, N.W. 8

105-93072

ques

"Thank you for sending your excellent August

issue.

Your leaflet

"Surrender at City Hall," exposing

absolutely perfect.

one or and and hook even o sent ere o ED

on the Afro-American revolt.

"If you have not already done so, please rush

= copy to Robert F. Williams at 9 Tai Chi Chang, Peking.

that is not possible directly, please send me an

New Yorl

(100-154902)

Chicago

134-183 S

declassily, ond

(6}

Approved:

SECRET.

Sent

. M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 26

ORIGINAL FILED IN

!

49271595515

---

## Page 27

cC/200-41353

SECRET.

(S)

"extra copy so that I can male sure Rob gets this and

future issues of the Ad Hoc Bulletin.

"You should also, please, send a copy to Franz

Goldschlagstr.

64/5, 1150 Vienna 15, Austria.

Sizobe, landster-Leninisien osterrelch stroll is leadios

Comrade

active and important Marxist leninist movement in

Austria under difficult conditions • revisionists not

He will send you

Rote Fahne, organ of the MLO in exchange.

"Our Dutch friends tell me that they have

received considerable literature

and will be sending some

off soon.

I have spoken with out Eastern friends, too,

and I believe that we can assure shipments for the time

being via Holland. Please confirm, as agreed. Leo will

wice you directly. If there are any problems, let me

know and I'll work out other arrangements..

The main thing

is to let

me know quickly so that sonething can be worked

out.

Alas, thet sometimes takes

time?

"Fraternally,

/s/Richard Gibson"

in addition to this letter fron GIBSON the fol-

lowing letter frOm LEO VAN ZWOL Of Holland was received through

the AHC Post Office Box on 10/7/66:

"To the attention of Cmd. R.B.

"Ad

Hoc Committee

P. Ju Box 6193

Chicago

Illinois 60680

FLAZ/Publishing Dept.

"Dear Comrades,

forwarded to you:

"First I wish to acknowledge you that I have

SECRET

• 2

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 27

---

## Page 28

SECRET.

CG/

100-41353 | (S)

SECRET

"50 copies V.N. Courier No 65

14/9-66

50

50

8808

008T

8808

9889

No 70 14/966

NO 71 16/9-66

50

No 72 19/9-66

"Further we had in Rotterdam a meeting with

comrade R.G.. from London, who said he was recently in con-

tack with you, and we discussed about the

future sendings of

de asked me it it was possible

To avoid

the loss of materials

I kindly put the following questions.

"I- Is is possible to send the parcels registered?

"2 I know that a P.O.

Box gives some difficulties,

therefore is it possibie to send the parcels to

any private address?

"These questions are very urgent because I have

many booke to be forwarded to you.

"Also I ask you kindly if there is a possibility to

help me in the costs of mailing,

because I'm ran out of my

money.

When you succeed in selling the Vietnamese books, then

you can use

part of the money for the mailing costs.

"I hope that you will ansver this questions as soon

as possible and I wish you good successes in your struggle

and healthy days.

With Cormunist greetings,

/s/1.00 van Zwol

"Leo Van Zwol

Neikeverstraat 17 2

Rotterdam-16

Holland

Es it useful that I inform comrade R.G. in London

about

each sending of naterials??"

CE 6517S, who clears

the ANC Post Office Bor on

3 regular basis and

who was contacted by GIBSON when CiBSON

was in Chicago during the past summer offered the unsolicited

interpretation of the two letters to the effect that either

VAN ZWOL Or GIBSON or both are operating in behalf of some

- 3.

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 28

---

## Page 29

66200-12353] (5)

SECRETA

intelligence agency.

He concluded that the question

raised by VAN ZWOL'S letter which inquires if there is

not & private address to which parcels may be sent was a

provocative act in view of the conversation that he had

had with GIBSON in which he stressed to GIBSON that the

security or the ant and its members was paramount in view

or the sanctions that could be taken against AHC members

by ize Imperialist GovernmentS

It may be stated here that CG 6547-S had not

During the period 10/14-16/66 CG 5908-S furnished

the following information which he had ascertained during

his recent trip to Western Europe in which he had a number

of contacts with pro Chinese officials in various countries.

During the time he was in Italy, RINO PERICO, a member of

the Central Committee of the Itallan Marxist-Leninist group,

advised him that he suspected RICHARD GIBSON of being an

agent with CIA because GISSON in his recent stop-over in

Kilan

had with him a young American girl by the name of DAVIDA

'ENEMAN who ostensibly was acting as a translator for GIBSON.

PERICO also questioned the statement of GIBSON to the effect

that he had married

a rich English woman and that her father

was building them a home in England, hence he was in a posi

tion to entertain the Italian comrades should they travel

to London.

PERICO requested the informant to transmit this

suspicion to the comrades in Belgium for their action

since GIBSON is a contact of the Belgium Communist Pasty (CP

The informant, when he contacted RENE RAINDORE,

number two man in the Grippa Pro-Chinese Belgium Party, a

few days later, informed RAINDORE Of the suspicions of GIBSON

but told him that this was not his conclusion, but rather

nas acting in checapacity of

a nessenger boy for the italian

Herzist-Leninists.

RAINDORE said that he would look into

the matter and acted surprised at this charge against GIBSCN.

nue informant has no other knowleage of

these charges or what

ection may have been taken by RAiNDORE.

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 29

---

## Page 30

c0/F200-12353 ](5)

SECREY.

The informant was shown the letter set forth

above from GIBSON and he stated that in his opinion that

It would be a breach of security and certainly would not be

acting as a Marxist-Leninist ii the AHC were to continue to

mccrespond with GISSON.

He did not feel, however, that

VAN ZWOl was connected directly with GIBSON and did not feel

that the questions as set forth in VAN ZWOL's letter were

provocative.

He stated that when he talked to NICO SCHREVEL

the leader of the pro-Chinese Party in Holland that SCHREVEL

spoke highly of VAN ZWOL and there was not the slightest

intimation to any of the comrades he spoke to in Western

Durope that would reflect that VAN ZWOl, was working for the

enemy.

ke also noted the fact that he had been unable to

Deo VAN JIUs since tie latter was 1I Albanial

Chicago recommends that we cease correspondence

with GIBSON and that in the reply to vAN Zwol we note that

is not necessary for him to inform GIBSON in London about

sending of materials to the AHC. It should also be set

Loth in this letter that due to the security problems that

face the Committee that he should continue to send the

parcels to the AHC Post Office Box and that

this general

Chicago also believes that there is a conspicuous

lesson to be gained from the GIBSON affair, namely that to

operate in an aggressive manner without an established political

pose is nost unwise and is easily construed by actual Marxists-

Mutais sa to paratival

SECRET

HH 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 30

---

## Page 31

Atetel

To s

SAC, Chicago

200-12353)

Prom: Darector, 70X 1200062155)

105-730121

AXIST-LEN INEST PARTY, USA.

SECRET

10/20/66

2 - Mr. Ryan

442715-95775)

rome

ReCGatztel 10/20/69 englosing copion

of

monorandun sotting forth infornation

developed by

letterhoad

5808-3

abroad rolating to Richard Cabson

Atteched is a Keron copy of Bulot to tho Central

intell gonce Agency (

dated 10/24/66, captioned "BICHARD

GIBSON,

ANOMATION CONCrKNING.". This lottor which la based on

Information rolating to Gibson set forth. in

20/15/66 was

paraphrased to protoct the identity of

The bureau does not

propose to disscminate the letter

hend menorandun prepared by Chicago dated 10/30/66 captioned

"ALESGAZIONS BEGARDING RICHARD GIRSON.**

For your information this Bureau hos no knowledge that

CIA ac thie tine de aware of the infomant etstus of CC 5908-3

or ol the intelligence nature of the Ad Hog Committee (ANC).

Communications dirocted to the Bureau by CLA rogarding the AHC

and pertaining to the individunl identical to CC 5908-3 bave not

indicated in ony nanner that the intelligence nature of

operation or the infoment etetus of

CG 5908-S have been revealed

to CIA.

You will bo advised in the event intormation is roceived

indionting ClA has dosinite knowledgo of this intolligence

operation or of the informant

o8 CG 6908-5.

In the nei

untlo, this oporation met contame

ho directed to préclude

exposure os

485 Intelligence nature

to CIA

0/1219s

Enclosure

Classiled, by

SOSMACIGA

Declassity Oth

DR: 1mm (6)

/ 205-93072 (Gibson)

1966

SECRET.

Classillad by

DampitronG

SEE

NOTE PAGE 2

lappRo

AND E?

ATE

ENCIES

RES

VIING

ORIGINAL FILED

SECRET

STIP(5

DATE

Weirdl

HH

55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 31

---

## Page 32

SECRET

Airtol

to SAC

Chicago

Re:

AO HOC COUMITTEE

MARXISA-LENINIST PARTY, USA

100-442715

(s)

NOTE:

Gibson is a confidential

source of CIA operating

in Durope. He is in contact with four offictals of European

pro-Chinese comunist organizations who have also been contacted

by Co 5908-S, who returned from Europe on 10/14/66, where he

made contacts

in behalf of the intelligence ANC. We have been

most cautious to preclude revealing the intelligence nature of

this

operation and

the informant status

of CG 5908-8 to CIA

and inquirtes fron CIA have been answered indicating the AHC

informan

1a a legitimate communist.

to determine i1 it is possible CIA has concluded the AiC is

an intelligence

operation and the

above information is being

furntshed to Chicago

to guide

then in their future contacts

in the

none of the

ANG.

185 7062. U

HH 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 32

---

## Page 33

SECRET

(33)

105-92072

BEELEON

Dos

Subject:

80S0se8 25,

128S

Drooter

Contral Intolligenoo

Agency

attention:

Doppty Diecetor,

Pleas

Jong Niger Heavor,

Siracter

ALL TNPORMATION CONTACT

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

RICHARD CISSON

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

INDONNATION CONCHEMONG

1112/98

classita by Spe MAC GAT

. Declassify ons

DADR

(JFK

E sourco of this bureau who has

• Inralched reliable

Inêcuantion

in tho past rooonily advisod that during the

Fail of 1005,

Ibalisa pro-chicone Barkist

Loninist organimtion stated

that one Richard Gibson was

Eunpooted of being

* Spy Ice de Contral Intolligence Agoney.

According to thie andividunk, Cheon recondly lad

Noon an

Mal02y

I04172

home is

an sho canpany ofa douale doorstary leos 22225

in Row Rochelle,

Koe Yoako

Ac that thee

Siesos zonaired bis Sravol and activitios vero

peasible

because

No had married e boalthy logizab soun.

henge

vaze sald sAdes aroused

the cuoploions of the Etailan.

According to our esurce,

#ho Etalden presChzaos

Saristolchinist subsequently relayed bin suapicious coucoring

dibsce to Hone Rolodozs,

# monics ce the Contral Comalttso:

tho Comanded Largy of Bolgiun Cariot lorinice).

Mainess, saportedly thomaltes not 12 Briscols, Dolgius,

Gibson although ho bad indientod the Dolgian pro-Chinese

Sonamn 2385

wouid lock isto

the chaises of

Cho Itolion Marxiste

Lorinist.

(s)

10593012-

ENCLOSUR

₴

Excludsa

autonatio

CONNETE

dool

236

3-4421 7(5)

NOLO

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 33

---

## Page 34

FD-36 (Rev..5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

10/20/66

Transmit the following in

aunt

AIRTEL

Via

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

end. 4151

ALL INFORWATION CONTAINED

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

(100-442715)

SHETE IS UNCLASS ED DEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Contenta

510/34/65

FRO21

SUSSECT:

:

SAC, CHICAGO

100-11353)

(5)

AD HOC COMMITTEE FOR

MARXIST-LENINIST PARTY,

-C

USA S

(5) 5'

no diademenetron

erel

py,

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are the original

seven copies of a letterhead memorandum (LHM) captioned

PALLEGATIONS REGARDING RICHARD GIBSON".

This information was furnished to SAs HERBERT K.

SPELLINGS and ROBERT R. GLENDON on 10/14-18/66. Chicago is

Emmitting this information in LHM form in the

Eureau desires to disseminate the information.

eyeat the

THE BUREAU HAS ADVISED THAT NO INFORMATION TENDING

TO IDENTITY THE AD HOC COMMITTEE (AHC), A HIGHLY SENSITIVE

INTELLIGENCE OPERATION, MAY BE SET FORTH OPENLY IN ANY

REPORT OR COMMUNICATION WHICH MAY BE DISSELINATED OUTSIDE

THE BUREAU.

IN ORDER TO PROTECT THE

HOC OPERATION THE

AHIC HAS NOI BEEN NAMED IN THIS LIM S

This LIM is datelined Washington, D.C., and is

oSSified secret since the information contained

herein

could reasonably result in the identification of CC 5908-s

a representative of the AHC, determined this infor-

made

Europe

during

from personal contacts he

the period 8/1-10/14/66.

Lenc. 900

S

in Western

12130-94

5-910

Classified by

Bureau (Encls.

8) (RM.)

A MAC SA

: DADR

Chicago

(1 -C

134-183)

05.93072

NOT RECORDED

Perta

223/vng

(5;

ENCLOSUNG

184 OCT 28 1906

9

APPROFE

AGINATES

FACES

Aporoved:

sitt

Lanter d

SECRET

DATI

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 34

SECRET

4291505

7(S)

ORIGINAL FIL

---

## Page 35

007100-82358 7(5)

SECRET

In order to more clearly establish the events

as they relate to GiBsoN,

onceras a detailed

During the period from 8/27/66

in ormant was in Bussels awaiting the reture of JACQUES

GRIPPA and had during this period many contacts with members

of the Central Committee a GRIPPA'S Party. On one occasion

when he was speaking with RENE RAINDORD at Party headquarters,

RAINDORE, received a call and told the informant that it was

from RICHARD GIBSON and that he was going to the airport to

see GIBSON.

As GIBSON is an American,

he inquired it the

informant would want to go along with him and also asked

what the informant knew about him.

Informant told RA INDORF

that he was not personally acquainted with GIBSON, but did

know of him as the head of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee

and also understood that CIESON was a Trotskyite..

Because

of this the informant declined to go with RAINDORE and asked

RAINDORF not

disclose the informant's presence in Europe

CO GIBSON

On

9/13 and 14/66 the informant spent two days with

RINO PERICO, a member of the Central Committee of the Italian

Marxist-Leninist group, at his home in Bergamo, Italy.

will be recalled that

informant and PERICO became good friends

when

both were in Albania last year.

S

At the time of this meeting PERICO advised the

informant that RICHARD GIBSON had recently stopped in Milan

and had talked with some of their group.

The informant under-

stood that this meeting took place only a few days before

According to PERICO they suspected GIBSON of being

= CIA agent in view of the fact that when in Milan & young

American girl accompanied CIBSON ostensibly as a translator.

The Italians did not believe this relationship.

Further,

GISSON told them that if they were to come to London that

he

has room in his new home to entertain them since he was marcise

to a rich English woman and that her father was building him

this new home.

PERICO questioned the way GIBSON was traveling

from point to point and the fact that he found it necessary

w. expisin the circumstarces of his residence in England.

Ho also noted that GIBSON bad no apparent political base.

-2-

SECRET,

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 35

---

## Page 36

60100-13358 (5)

SECRET,

PERICO asked the informant to advise the Belgium

Party of this suspicion. s

DERICO also furnished the iniormant the name ot the

young woman who accompanied GIBSON aS DAVIDA FINEMAN, 8

Rue Maitre Albert, Paris, France.

She advised PERICO that

siter August she could be located

gare of Pierce 370 Beechmont

Drive, New Rochelle, New York.

The identity of this Individual has not been set

forth in the LiM since to do so would pinpoint the identity

0f CG 5903-S.

On his

return to Brussels informant was in contact

with RAINDORE on September 18th and felt obligated, in a

lazzist-Leninist sense, to advise RAINDORF Of PERICO'S

auspicions.

He stated

that RAINDORF appeared surprised

stated

that he would check into this charge.

The infor-

mant told RAINDORF that he must understand that

this was

not his allegation; that as far as he knew GIBSON was 2

Trodyskite and that RAINDORF could consider

the informant

osty in the capacity of a messenger boy

Informant advised that since

he had no way of

knowing whether the allegation against GIBSON was true that

as a representative of the AHC he had to carry through and

report this to RAINDORF.

By separate communication Chicago is submitting

With

respect to this entire matter, Chicago

desires to point out that the name of CG 5908- is known

to the leading pro-Chinese comrades in Western Europe,

including GRIPPA, RAINDORF, NICO SCHREVEL, Secretary of

the Holland Pro-Chinese Party, and LEO VAN ZWOL, the

editor of the Holland pro-Chinese paper. Because of the

fact that it is known that GIBSON is in direct communication

with RAINDORE and VAN ZWOL and In all probability GRIPPA

land SCHREVEL, it would appear most probable that the CIA,

Shrough GIBSON, knows the name of CG 5908-S as an ARC

Curctionary who was traveling this summer in Westers

europe. With the contemplated dissemination of material

derived fron the informant's trip in lill forn, it wouldS

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 36

---

## Page 37

C0/200-12353 | (5)

SECRET

well conclude that CG 5908-s

in s source of the bureau.

It will be recalled

that

last year when the infor

mant travelled to Albania

that CIA furnished to us infor-

macion from an airline manifest list which included the

2. 3 of the informant as a person who had travelled into

LEis were submitted to the Bureau incorporating

and we caterpined by the informant last yeas and although

there were osher individuals from the U.S. who travelled into

Albania it would seen reasonable that CIA could correlate

Gush information and conclude that the Bureau source was one

these people.

Coupled then with the current information

of the informant's Western European trip and the fact that

his identity is known to the Western European comrades, 1t

would indicate that CIA could conclude that he is a source

of the Bureau.S

Chicag

does not suggest at all that the status of

the Ad Hos operation would become known to CIA, but only that

CIA could reasonably conclude that CG 5908-e wis a source of

the Bureau S

the

structure of the ARC is such that corres-

pondence will be either initiated or continued with GRIPPA,

I INDORE, SCHREVEL and VAN ZWOL and other pro-Chinese

Kerxists-leninists in Europe and as GIBSON has had personal

contacts with these prominent pro-Chinese leaders, Chicago

requests that the Bureau advise whether the information

concerning GIBSON in the

enclosed LHN will or will not be furnished

(S)

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId:32339279

Page 37

---

## Page 38

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Hashington,

D.C.

Cc töbers 20

* 1966

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SECRET

ALLEGATIONS REGARDING

RICHARD GISSON

In October, 1966, a source, who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advised that he had learned

during the summer of 1966 that Richard Cibson, a journalist

who resides in London, England,

and who apparently has numerous

contacts among pro-Chinese Marxists-Leninists in Europe, had

contacted members of the Italian Marxist-Leninist group

(pro-Chanese) In italy (S

According to

source the Italian Marxists-

Leninists suspected Gibson of being an "agent provocateur"

and possibly working for Central Intelligence Agency.

The

Italians were going to make

gheeks with the pro-Chinese Party

in Bolgium about tabsor 5

Source had no knowledge of the substance of the

suspicions of the Ballan marists tennista

SECRET

coup

Excluded from autonatic

downgra

and

declassification

12/30194

1213010% SpS MACCAT

Declassity on:

DADR

OFE

Excriptiren cus,

Outdo Mechasi

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It is the property of

the Tederal Bureau of Investigation and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to-be distributed outside your agency.

" APPPOP

TN'

AND GAN

6208 (Sy

DATE

ACENCIES

4-28

105-23022

CP IS ENGLOSUNG

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 38

---

## Page 39

SECRET

8

- Llaison

1

• Basher

Cisarated by

Exemptt:om

Date:

October 11, 1906

IS LIAISON

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

To:

Dizector

Control Intelligence Agency

Attention;

Deputy Director, Plans

John Bagar Hoover, Director

115/95

Fron:

Subject:

SVOLUSIONARY ACTION MOVERENT

Intornation has been recelved fron a confidential

source of incuriolent contact to determine reliability that

Mas Stanford, Isold Chairman of the Rovolutionary Action

Hovenent,

had recently nade several statements indicating

involvenont of Sugar with tbo Revolutionary Action lovement

Tho Revolutionary Action Movement de an all-flegso,

Marxist-Leninist orteuted organization which follows

the

Chinese Comunict line and leadership of Robert I. Willieus,

* Negro fugitive fron justice in voluntary extle in Cubs,

wio advocates achloving of Negzo rights by violence 11

necessary, including guerrilla mataro. L

Acoording

to the source, Stanford stated that the

contret man between

the Revolutionary Action Movement in

the United Stotes and Willians le Sugar in Paris, France.

Stanford reportedly stated Sugar passed

on messages fron

Willians and will be the man contacted

by whoever

is

designated as a courter hy Stanford to

go to Communist

The purpose of this trip is to

obtato one ailion

dollars that. Willians allegedly has

available for use by

the Revolutionary Action Hovenent

75074

Perveleroe (90-21149-141 balkye

NOT RECORDED

100442684

IA! OCT 12 1963

PTB: deh Declassify on:

1890

55 0C/-1101988072

(Sugar)

1 - 157÷2466

(Deacons

DAR cluded

doungradi,

on antonatie

aBO

Mr DioniG

SEE NOTE PAGE 3.

Defense and Justice, Inc.)

NH 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 39

4891260-84/

---

## Page 40

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

the

source

also

stated that

according to Patricia

Mallory prior to the arzept of Khaleel Sayyed in February,

1965, Walllans cont money through Sugar to Patricia Mallory

to give to hor nother, Moo Mallory:

The noney was transferred

by mail and by band.

The source has no infosuption as to the

encunt but ho was of the opinion it was

An excoss of a

subsistence allerace for line Mallory.

S

Khaleel

Sayyed

me arrested in February, 1965, for

conspiracy to

destroy national shrines.

Prior to his arrest,

Petsdele and ber nother,

Marxtat-leniniel' organization which currently supporte the

I ino of

: Che Commalet

Party 1p China. L

It is noted that when Sugar visited the United Statec

An tha Burmer of 1986, Men Stanford was among the individuals

he intended to contact.

In view of Sugar"e alleged comection

vith the Revolutionary Action lovenont, ve would apprectate

any information concerning the following questions:

(3)

Has Sugar boon contacted by known Rovolutionary

Action lovenent menbers?

Is Sugar

of a trip being planned by the

evolutionary Action lovement to send a courier to Comminiet

to got funds fron Willlans and the route this courier

Told tale Milliams di reportedly noy in Cominist China.(

Has Sugar,

, in the past, pasaed on bessages

the Revolutionary Action Movomont from W1lZtans and, 1$

00, to than were these messages addressed? S

(6)

Has noney

in the past been

cont through

Sugar to members of tho Revolutionary Action Movenent,

the

Workere Borld Party and other organizations?

11. 80g

Jas this noney sout

• to

the Valted

States and specifieally

the posunte involved?

(5)

Has

Bugar seat

messages from mentors of the

Revolutionsey Actlot Moronent

do the United States

8112 tans?

1$ s0, does Sugar

have any intorantion as

to

the

identities

theso manbera?

S

SECRET

HH

55509

DocId: 32339279

Page

40

---

## Page 41

SECRET S

Discotoz

Central Intelligence Agency

15)

Does Bugar baro Enovledge of

Disused

zaolal disturbances in the United States?

Does Sugar have Ismonledge of

any firearns

avallable to tho Savoluttonary Action lovenent and d8 any

stronms ahiponto have boor nado to the past

planned in

the Lute? (5)

By concalcation datod July 19, 1066.

captioned

*Donpons ol Defenso and Jactice, Incorporates,

Racial Masters

(engontention); Brnost Thomas, Boclal Mattero,

* You FOO

advinod of Thoma's intondod travel to Baropo

to radee Lunda

20r the bencone o betonae and notice, Incorporated,

orialogro group organized to protect civil rights vorters

phen they balteve such protoction to not availablo from

Zocal Inu entorocent authoriceo.

Thones is knows to

have contacte nith Revolutionary

• Action Lovenont membera

in New Tort, Now Tort

Ve would like to be furnished any

intoration comernins fboura's activities abroad;

apoetically, any contacte with Sugar.

ALSO,

Day

inform

tion you may have loitenting Thone any have

+ traveled to

Commutot Chias, or da ony pay actou no a courier for tho

Levoiutionary beston Loveront

NOTE:

The above

information

by New York airtel

was furnished the Bureau

dated 9/30/66 captioned "Revolutionary

Action Movement, IS-RAM."

The Central Intelligence

Agency (CIA) has previously

requested intormation concerning radical organizations and

black nationalist groups with which their informant, Sugar,

a Negro expatriate living in England, could affiliate himself

as an informant. Sugar

groups and had

was previously active in pro-Castro

an unsavory reputation., He offered his services

to the Bureau, for money, and was turned down. * CiA has since

been operating him.

This letter

letters

is classified "Secret" as previous CIA

classified.

containing information regarding Sugar have been so

55509 DocId:32339279

Page 41

---

## Page 42

C

Airtel

8/9/66

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEO

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

repich

SECRET

2

Ryen

101

SAG

Chiongo

(100- 41283)

220a 3

Direodor,

8100-1127158

-(5)

(S)

ED BOO COIAZADER

EARXIST MENEWEST

INDINAL SECURITY i C

- : 4593022 - 109

-930%2 - APPROPRIDE AGEN

CIES

AND STATD

SUIP (S) 03

in fication

DATE

ReDutel, 8/1/66,

Chicago telephone

cails 6/4/6G

8/5/66 celating

to. the intoreot of the Contral

Intelligence

Agency

informant known

"ca" in contacting eur

intelligense Ad Hoc

Commi 6tee

(ANG) .

net

CC 0547-5,

identitiod

i hânss22 as a 01110101

of the AUC

Châcago on 8/4/60

On S/S/36

the

Central Escolligenco Ageacy adviseu

Sureau,

through 11eiso0;

6226

bad net with

Salian*

Chicago on 8/4/66-

"Suger"

Accordins to

the Contral Inte- Sigonce

Agency

identified hinsel? 2s the

*Aduccroos)

Secrecazy

Party*"

the Party apperently

Soing

ice ABC

Darzas

the course of the conversation,

ascording

Central

Antolligence

Julian*

referred to hisci*

"'Iterio.

"Sugar"

Julian"

ancomobile

boaring illinois Alconse plate DI 1402

The Central Intelligence

advised

it would eubais

# conplete report covering the cont ot of "Sugar: with

julien"

No operational interost vas ladicated

by tho Central Intu ligence

Agency

ARC, Sue 14

requested the Bureau advise

the identity

possessing

Illinois Iscense

plate DU

(S)

individus]

Chicago

should subni"

et the carlioci possible

date

the results oi

22.32

inquizy

made

to determine to

1icense piate

DW

1492

assigned.

This iniornation; as woll do

"inch.

Mont

Wick

Callahon

DR: U4

68) classied

11 Declaily 0ou

DADR

MAC SAPLED 30

• AUG

9 1966

MM-5B1

61 AUG 2 41966

MAIL ROOML

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE NOIE PAGE 2

SECRET

ORIGINAL FILED IN

700-114-715-8178

75

74 55509

Doc

279

Page 42

---

## Page 43

Air

Re:

Chicago

233 208 A

USA

(S)

SECIET

1200-7

12715(5)

charactorination

the subversive background of tho

individual

assigned the automobale license plate number,

shou 10

Incorporated into a lottorhoad nonorandur

to conceal

the

esiculatod

intelligence nature of

this operacions

For the inzormation of Chicago on 8/3/66,

respouse

rogust for background sogarding the

MUC

a20!

identlby of Its leaders, the Contral Intolligence Agoney ves

furnished a copy

report o. SA Robert 2,

Glendor;

daced 5/10/85,

al Chicago,

on the AaC, and the Chicago

addresses 01

Jones' koller

and Grace Sarnials, whon tho roposs

infers

are affillated with the AMC.

Dhe Gentral Inickligence

Agency

hiss

the

not boor adrisco of the

ANC.

(S)

intelligares nature os

hirego should advice the Exreau by the nost

cxpedi sious scins

veeranted in the event' any further

effort is made by

"Sugar" to contact the ANG or of aay

adds bional

rogults rolating

: to his contact with the ANC o

8/4/66

S

NOTE:

CIA is seeking an American legro subversive to

"Suger" is identical

to Richard

Cuba Committee.

Gloso me are not asured of his rellability and

although we have allowed an informant rep ssentative of the

intelligence ANC

to meet with hin to insure the authenticity

of the operation is protected,

we do not foresee any

operational relationship between "Sugar. and the AlC.

Contact

by "Sugur" with CG 6547-8

onsisted of discussion only and

no commi cnonts were nado.

Investigative report made available to Cr does

not

reveal intelligence nature of AHC.

Koller and sarnial

although identilied in report-as possibly affiliatos with

tho

ARC

ABO

are cormunists not affiliated

or knowledgeable of

Inquiry of CEA

is logical and we will answer

handle = 20221

regarding ldousdry of 06C- 7-S

SECRET

(5)

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 43

---

## Page 44

FD-35 (Rev. 5-22-6÷)

FBI

Date:

8/5/98

SECRET

Transmit the following in

Via

5421879

145,

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

APPROPR

ATE AGENCIES

AND 2=+

495---

WRING

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(100-142715)

BLY INN

SAC,:

CHICAGO

(100-11353).

LOC COPARTY, FOR A MARXISTS.

MAY IN IST PARTY, USA

MARXISTS FORMATION CONTANED

- C

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Rebutel 8/1/66 and telephone calls 8/4/66.

On 8/4/66 CG 6547-S advised that he had received

through the Ad Hoc Committee

(AHC) post oifice box in

Chicago a letter from RICHARD GIBSON postmarked 8/2/00,

Detrolt, Michigan.

GIBSON stated that he would be staying

at the la Salle Hotel in Chicago for about two or three

days beginning the third and requested a contact.

letter, he related that the "Etiennes" in Lausanne and

RENE RAINDORE from Brussels had given

ANC address

On 8/4/86 pursuant to Bureau authority CG 6547-S

met with GIBSON on the lake front area of Chicago.

CG 6547-S

used the pseudonym "Mr. JULIAN" and his identity was not

further questioned. Their discussion included the following:

CG 6547-S stressed the security problems of the

AHC stating that the AHC worked within the CPUSA and that

therefore GIBSON must honor this position. GIBSON stated that

although he had been given the address of the AHC by comrades

in

Brussels and switzerland,

the status

the AHC nor did he know the identity of any of its officer

CG 6547-S questioned GIBSON as to his background and

knowledge of Marxists-Leninists in western European countries.

GIBSON stated that he now resided in England and gave his

address as 30 Stockleigh Hall, Prince Albert Road, London,

N.W.

8

He related that he is a writer and had

erry been on the

staff of

1910

"Revolytion" which is now

defunct

Bureau (RM) 114 %

Chicago

Classified

&, SpACGAT.

30G 3

Declassi

(5)

SECRET

Approved:

Sent

_ M

AUG

Sa 1958

10593072

NOT RECORDED

Per

203 AUG 15 1966

Special Agent

Charge

100-4427158i

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 44

---

## Page 45

C

Ca [500-41353 ] (5)

SECRET

He related thai through his work with "Revolution" he met

and knows many Marxists-Leninists in Europe.

CG 6547-S

questioned him on the identities of some of these such as

DAVE VOLPE in England and GIBSON readily responded to the

1 are sabot

BELISIAOTEOA OF CE 6547SE

GIBSON related that he had been in the Fair play

for Cuba Committee; that he knew DICK CRILEY and JOHN ROSSEN

who had been active in the Chicago branch of this

that the Trotskyites had taken over the Committee

Committee;

(S)

GIBSON

stated that England is his home base and

that at the behest of Marxist-Leninists of the European

countries he had come to the U.S. to make contacts to

establish a literature outlet for North Vietnamese material

such as

'Viet Nam Courier" and to arrange for a Negro comrade

to travel to Viet Nam.

As to the establishment of a litercture outlet,

CG 6547-S advised that the AHC has no outlet and that

because of its

status

within the CPUSA had to be very careful

in this regarc

He staied that the AHC is presently getting

copies of "Viet Nam Courier" from "VAN ZWOL" in the Netherlands.

GIBSON stated that he would see

"LEO" when he got back to

Europe as he knows him very well.

CG 6547-S stated that the

AHC understood that since it is

not possible to send mail

from the U. S. to Hanoi,

that it would be very difficult to

arrange for mail from Viet Nan unless an intermediary was

utilized. As GIBSON questioned regarding possible outlets

in Chicago,

CG 6547-S gave him the address of the post Office

News, a legitimate literature outlet in the loop and the CP

book

store on the north side. GIBSON requested that the ARC

keep its eyes open to see how the distribution is going

(presuming that he makes

arrangenents

with the above outlets)

and to write him on this

matter

In the matter of arranging

for a Negro comrade to

travel to Viet Nam, GIBSON explained that as 40% of the American

troops in Viet Nam

are Negro and since this was a method of the

ruling class to take care of the war on poverty, it would be .

advantageous for a Negro comrade to have talks in Viet Nam.

He stressed that this comrade should be a person who has ties

in his community so that he can after his return to the U.

inform

Xese demity by word de muth he true sits)

- 2€

SECRET

55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 45

---

## Page 46

CG

(200-11353] (S)

SECRET

of what U.S. imperialism is doing to the Negro. He stated

that all expenses would be paid for this comrade and that

travel would be arranged in an indirect way such as firstly

to London then via

Pakistanian Airlines to Shanghai and

finally into Hanoi. Another way was fron Paris to Peking via

Air France then to Hanoi.

He explained that no sanctions

would be taken against a

person if he would go indirectly

to Hanoi, but

enforced against such travel.(S)

were he to go directly U. S. laws would be

GIBSON stated that the Negro in the U.S. must

relate his part in the war in Viet Nam

to those conditions

existing against him in the U.s.

CG 6547S explained that

the

organizer of the AHC

was unavailable and for

that reason he could not commit

the AHC to any cource of action.

he would, however,

report

all these points to the Executive Committee for their study

and action. S

GIBSON

to contacó MIKE LASKI Of the CPUSA (MI) and wanted to know

what the AHC thought of him. CG 6547-S advised GIBSON that

LASKI was considered by the

AHC to be an adventurist with only

a small base in Los Angeles; that he engaged in extended and

fratracidal polemics with other Marxist-leninists in the U.S.;

that LASKI's call to organize a Marxist-leninist Party now did

not take into account the realities existing in this country;

that the position of the AHC was that a true

Party would be born in struggle not as a result of a premature

calling for a national meeting. GISSON stated that since this

was the case he would

Angeles to see LASKI.

S

waste his time travelling to los

With respect

to other groups in this country GIBSON

commented: (S

He

made his first contact in Atlanta, Georgia, with

STOKLEY CARMICHAEL Of SNCC.

He characterized him as a

real

revolutionary although suspicious when

first contacted

(S)

He

contacted SDS in New York and characterized them

as 100% okay.

-3-

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 46

---

## Page 47

SECRET

CG

200-41353 | (S)

He stated

that under no circumstances would he

contact

dis 2us as disy were too dumbs, los 16ltnctarlmn(5

He did not mention "Hammer and Steel" in Boston

and informant did not believe that he had seen HOMER CHASE

(S)

Regarding PLP, GIBSON stated that he had contacted

them in New York City and was confused about this organization.

He stated that they did not appear

to be doing anything.

He related that SUE FRANK who used the name LISA ARMAND had

contacted the Belgium Party and had demanded to see JACQUES

GRIPPA, She would not reveal any information about PLP,

but requested that the Belgium Party publicize the WILLIAM

EPTON CaSE.

He stated that FRANK was too cozy and the Belgians

with PLP in New York did nothing to erase this impression

we we whered without else to tie cost

He stated that the Belgians were the number one Party

in Europe and that all the European Parties have concluded

that the tactic as

used by the AHC of staying within the

regular Party is a good tactic. With respeot to MIKE LASKI

calling for

the formation of a

Marxist-Leninist Party, GIBSON

stated that

the Austrian group has 6,000 members but

doesn*t

call itself a Party,

hence LASKI is too ambicious and his

exposure of Marxists-Leninists is bad.

(S)

CC 6547-S related that the road of the AHC is

difficult and in this regard mentioned that when major events

are held throughout the world among Marxist-leninists, it is

hard for the AHC to break out of its isolation so as to be

included

in such events.

GIBSON stated that in the future

the AHC will be included; that a conference will soon be held

in Europe against the war in Viet Nam; that the AHC will be

in the ending of the war.

GIBSON inquired

there were not some other means

to get in touch with the AHC rather than the post office box.

CG 6547-S advised that for security reasons he would have to

take this up with the Committee.

He explained that he clears

the box

and has found that even if someone is watching it is

next to impossible to determine which box is being cleared.

reiterated the security precautions and GIBSON seemed satisfied.

-4-

S

SEGREI

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 47

---

## Page 48

C

CG

{200-12353 ] (S)

CISSON and the informat discussed the LIN PilO

arsicle.

The infornant expiained the ideological stance

of the AHC concerning the nature of the working class in

the U.

S; the Afro-American question; the constant development

of the line presented in the Bulletin. GIBSON requested that

he be seni future copies of the Bulletin and also furnished

the following addresses:

(5)

A. MANCHANDA

58, Lisburne Road

London, N. W. 3

FRANZ STROBL

(S)

Goldschlat Strasse 30/33

Vienna 15

He also noted the home phone of RENE RAINDORE

in Brussels as 743-773 and stated that when in contact with

say you are a friend of "Colonel Thibault" in

RA INDORE

London.

GIBSON and the informant parted in a friendly manner.

GIBSON advised that he would be leaving

Chicago the next morning

but did not indicate his destination.

(S)

As GIBSON is working for CIA his motivation in this

contact with the AHC is obviously not that of a true Marxist

Leninist.

Hence any response on the part of the AHC must

take into account that a close identification with him could

adversely effect the AHC if GIBSON is unmasked.

The premise

of following through with this contact was to authenticate the

AHC as a viable Marxist-Leninist group with the Europeans

via GIBSON.

To anticipate him as a future channel would not

appear vital or necessary since CG 5908-S not only established

secure these contacts for our future use

If an occasion arose

in which

GIBSON were the only

avenue open to achieve a certain objective, it would be sound

then to establish a rappori with him.

in absence of a mandatory

requirement, Chicago would suggest that the relationship with

GIBSON be left as it now stands, e go,

fraternal, but without

obligations.

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279

Page 48

---

## Page 49

$:

TO

FROM

SUBJECTE

for

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1902SEDITION

-0lU-100

L' GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

FERNMENT

Memorandum

loison —

DeLoach -

Mohr

Wick -

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad -

Felt

Mr •

DATE:

Gale

7/21/66

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel _

I - Mr: Baumgardner

Trotter*-

: W.á

0. Cregar

(Shackelford)

Tele. Room

Holmes -

1 - Liaison

Gandy -

1 - Mr.

cregar

SUGAR

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

IS

HEREIS IS UNCLASSIFIN

WHERE SHOWN OTHERCREE

SUGAR is a Negro American citizen

living in

London, England®

We have received considerable corres-R

S. c

pondence from CIA regarding him.

This correspondence

supports the fact that SUGAR is a CIA source under the

goate control of that Agend A cordine to cla, scAr neeli

Is ostensibly anti-American, pro communist and openly

opposed to the United States involvement in Vietnam.

On 7/19/66, Mr• Calvin Tenney, CIA, advised

the Liaison Agent that SUGAR has

contacts with North

Vietnamese officials in London and has been encouraged

to make a trip to North Vietnam in his capacity as a

journalist:

CIA is definitely interested in having SUGAR

go to North Vietnam to

meet with officials of the North

Vietnamese government in the, hope that he will obtain

intelligence on current political decisions being consid-

ered in that country.

Preparatory to making such a trip,

SUGAR is arriving in the United States on 7/21/66 to

talk with leaders

of the leftist movement in the U. S. in

an effort to make himself appear more acceptable to

political leaders in North Vietnam.

SUGAR's proposed

Vitinerary is attached.

Results of SUGAR's contacts with

these individuals will be obtained fi

CIA and will be

furnished to the Bureau via Liaison

• 12,30

Classified

194

Declassify

OADR

OFK

a communist-oriented Negro in the U.S. who could accom-

pany him to North Vietnam with the hope in mind that this

individual could subsequently be used for propaganda

al

purposes by the North Vietnamese once he returns to the

U. Si

Travel to North Vietnam by SUGAR and the second

ndividual would of course, be clandestine and there woul

e no public announcement of his presence in North VietnamS

In view of the above, ClA desires to kow

(1) whether the Bureau knows of any Negro individuals whose

names could be furnished to SUGAR as possible candidates to

105-9.30 CONTENTED

19656

REC 5

4 AUG 8. 1966.

SERRIED

HH

55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 49

---

## Page 50

SECREN

Memorandum

Cregar to Brennan

RE :

SUGAR

(S)

go to North Vietnam, and (2) whether the Bureau could

provide CIA with the identity of any North Vietnamese

propaganda outlets in the U. S. and, if so, whether the

Bureau interposed any objection to CIA providing leads

to SUGAR wherein he might establish contacts with such

propaganda outlets. (S

CIA was advised by the Liaison Agent that it

was doubtful the Bureau had any information responsive

to the above requests which could be made available to

brought to the Bureau's attention

was advised CIA's request would be

In the event the Bureau has

no information which

they desire to give CIA in response to their requesti

Liaison can orally advise CIA that the Bureau is not

a position to provide any assistance in this matter.

ACTION:

The above should be directed to the Internal

Security Section for its attention. U

SECRET.

Cal Tenses, Com Was

adonised: 7/27166 thunt

te recommend as suspe

He engi the Doill the en

Prison dia encilet:

SECRET

_ 2 -

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 50

---

## Page 51

St0k6d

S

C

SEGNS!

U.S. TRIP

Leave London 21 July 1130. Arrives New York 1330.

First day:

Leave London for Boston, staying with Andrey martinsons, now

instruchor at Brandeis University and formerly his assistant

in Fair Play for Cuba Conmittee." Martinsons knows

Left" scene throughout country and can supply many addresses

and introductions.

Second day:

Third day:

Continue visit with Martinsons in Boston, flying to New

York in evening. Probably stay at the Hotel Albert or

niversity Place, where it would be possible for many

persons to see him without nuch difficulty.

Discussions with Daniel H

watts of Liberator about North

Vietnam trip

and publication possibilities and also getting

a survey of the black national scene in USA, getting names

and addresses for his tour around country.

Would also call

Robert Taber.

"Fourth day:

Staniord, John Henri

Clarke of Rreedonways, A.B.

and other black nationlists.

studies on the lett, group in New fork.

Fifth day:

Meeting with Leo Huberman and Paul

Sweezy of Monthly Review,

if possible.. Also would call on editors of The Nation.

Also contact Elizabeth Sutherland-of New York SNCC office

for additional contacts

and information about black nation-

alist militants.

Sixth day:

;N.y

in Europe.

Seventh day:

Eighth day:

Fly to Detroit to see James and Grace Boggs; loading

mich,

theoretical figures behind RAM, and other black nationalist

and leftist figures.

Fly to Chicago.

Visit to Ad Hoc Committee for Markist-

Leninst Party, find "Mr. Play" who met Swiss and others

in Albania

last year.

Private visit to Howar Brofsky of Ill

Chicago U. Music Dept.

D8:93'78

Ninth day:

Visit to Muhanmud Speaks Newspaper concerning North Vietnam

trip and other articles.

See other black nationalist groups

in Chicago.

ECRET

'ALL FBI-M

DATE /62/3.019

to Bay Area Left scene and addresses and introductions to

others in California

.- Call on Nershallndmiller of Cal-

ornia Denocratig

JFK)

BERNER ENCIOSURE: 05-93072-141

NW 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 51

---

## Page 52

Eleventh day:

Continue "New Left"_- non-CP contacts.

Twelveth day:

Visit Bay Area black nationalists and Berkeley Left

groups.

Thirteenth day:

Fourteenth day:

Fifteenth day:

Sixteenth day:

ILy to Los Angeles. see watts black nationalists--

Daniel Ha watts of

Liberator has been in contact

with

them for some time.

CalIF

Discuss Vietnam trip possibilities and other reporting

assignments with editors of Los Angeles Herald-Dispatch

a leading Negro newspaper.

Fly back to New York in

evening.

See Daniel H. Watts and Ma, Stanford and perhaps New

Ioris editors to wind up arrangements for trip and future

contacts.

Purely private trip to Philadelphia to see grandmother,

father, and old friends there.

Seventeenth day:

Windup New York talks and contacts, returning to

London in evening.

SECRET

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 52

---

## Page 53

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

F B.I

Date:

7/26/66

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

SECRETE BECA

1F2O 15

6113

FROM

:: SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387)

SUBJECT: RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON aka

IS-CUBA

ReBSairtel, 7/22/66. 4

For the information of Chicago, GIBSON was the

ommittee and left the us in september..

presently being. utilized as a source by cIs

An active investigation is not being requested

the Chicago Division.

In the event that any information

concerning the activities of GIBSON, while in Chicago, is

brought to the attention of the Chicago Division, it is

requested that

the NYO be notified.

APPPOPRIAT

Ado erecoo

fred

IPIR

Clamatted by

Exeist liDin GDS.

Dasn

pay 2

T8зj0116

J>Bureau (RM)

2-Chicago (RM)

1-New York

SECRET.

REC 28

105-930771-0

JEH: dam

(7)

1980141

Massified by SoS MAOSAT

Declassify, an. DAD

IN JUL 27 1966

Approved:

Sent

_M

of

140

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55509 DocId:32339279

Page 53

---

## Page 54

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 7/22/66

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

FROM: SAC, BOSTON (105-8205) (RUC)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON, aka

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

On 7/21/66, Mr. WILLIAM REGAN, Customs Service, Boston,

Mass., advised that RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON, born 5/13/31 at Los

Angeles, California, had entered the United States at Logan

Airport, bearing Passport No. Z 414-374.

address

He furnished a foreign

of 30 Stockleigh Hall, London, NW8, England.

When interviewed by Customs he indicated he was proceeding*

to the Hotel. Albert in New York City for a few days and then was i

proceeding to Chicago, Illinois. He said he wouldebe in the U.S.

until 9/9/66 and then would proceed back to Europe.

1012 prod

Boston files

are not complete on this individual but

indicate he is possibly identical with Bufile set forth above

and New York 105-42387. L1

In the event any investigation is desired at Chicago,

Illinois, it is requested that the Chicago Division be promptly

adyised by New York.

Bureau (RM)

- Chicago (RM)

2

- New York (105-42387) (RM)

• - Boston ATE INTORMATION CONTAINED

FMC :ma j

KERRAN TO UD

(8)

110/20194

BOS MACIGAT

Pe: 15805-93072-139

JUL 25 1965

1800.

Sent

Per

Agent in Charge

NW 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 54

---

## Page 55

SAC, New

York (105-42387)

EX-113

Director,

1/19/66

169: 5(105-93072)

138

SECRET

1

- Mr. Glascock

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

SECRET

1

Vir. Wagner

IS - CU

ALT EUROS: EOS CONTAINED

1

- Mr. Ruehl

HERMIN YS LACLASSEFIED EXCEPT

WRONG SEOWN OOHERWISE in

Security ladox eurà snacolled

7/19/6°

Reurlet 5/26/66.

On 7/11/66 Department advised subject's case

was reviewed and determination made he be deleted fron

Sectrity Index.

Security Index cards maintained at Bureau

have been canceled. Cancel cards maintained on subjeet by

your office.

1 - 100-398030

- Emergency Detention Program)

1 - 105-97549 Cuban Emergency Plan)

1 - 100-358086-(security Index)

*(a)

VER:tj

(9)

Exaript tram CDS,

Dag d' Dadays licat

NOTE:

1077

398636

pos

97549..

358656

105°

Subject was formerly head of Fair Play

for Cuba

Committee.

Based on pro-Cuban activity, he was placed on

Security Index.

He has an unsavory reputation, and is considered

a highly unreliable character.

He previously offered to

serve as Bureau informant solely for money involved and

when rejected offered his services to CIA for whom he is

presently operational he left U.s. prior to 1962 and has

Lived in africa and Burope.

He currently resides in Englan

(Bureau has received various items from CIA which indicates

ORDED, COPY

Súbject currently providing data on regular

basis

Department

has

advised he should be removed from Security

12130104

GAON

CECRET.

Cancelled

Indes, &

Tolson

• DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

T'avel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

61

ANG 9

MAIL ROOM

UFK)

APPROPR

SITE AC

fANCIES

AND BATT

CES

ITINe 30

DATE

2865)

1966

TELETYPE UNITE

J-4.

ALPINE

1:891

SECREY

NW 55509 DooId: 32339279

Page 55

---

## Page 56

FORM 1S-44 (REV. 5-14-64)

*United States C

vernment

MEMORANJJM

DEPARTMENT.OF JUSTICE

JUL 1 1 1966

To:

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Date:

From:

(Assistant Attorney General

Sidority lodes card cancellad

Iternal Security Division

Subject:

INDEX REVIEW

Res RiCHARD THOMAS GIBSON

File in FBI No.

105593072

Reports of investigation been reviewed as reguested

by you on JUNE 10,1966

It has been determined that indexing of this case for future

review should be

continued

Commentary:

REC 53

discontinue

DECLASSIFIED BY

SpamAC/GAT

1259

12/30/94

Per Dent. Setten dit i d/8

105-

13072-138

EX-113,

18 JUL 7x 1966

MNRECORDED COPY FILED

100.u

398030

CC:

FBI

ISD-SO

Dept. 146-012418-2

:B0.

idio

SE

GROUP 11

automatic

Excluded frot

downgrading a

declassification

Nat Int Je

Tick

NW 55509 DocId: 32339279 Page 56

---

## Page 57

3:1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-4

MAY 1902 EDITION

'GSA GEN: REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

INMENT

Memoranaum.

TO

DIRECTOR,

FBI (105-93072)

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387)

SUBJECT:

RICHARD THOMAS

, GIBiSON

IS - CUBA

DATE: 5/26/66

ALL IEFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

SECRET

ReBulet, 1/5/66. 1

Referenced Bureau letter requested that the NYO,

during May, 1966, advise of the status of subject's file

and make recommendations concerning his removal from the

Security Index. 1

review of subject's file reflects that or

1/11/66_NY 4047-S* advised that MILTON ROSEN, an official

of the Progressive Labor Party in NY, NY.. furnished the

name and

address of subject in England to SUSAN FRANK. X

Subsequently by letter 3/8/66, CIA furnished the

results of

a contact between SUSAN FRANK and the subject.

(S

By letter 2/15/66, CIA furnished information con-

cerning a contact between subject

and

the Managing Editor

of "Progressive Labor" in NY, NY.

Inasmuch as subject continues to be used as a

source

by cIA, it is felt that he no longer warrants inclusionS

on the

Security Index

Therefore, it is being recommended

that the

name of RICHARD GIBSON be deleted from the security.

Index

A ACTACIES

APPROPRIAI

AND EDEED O!

JING

Exerie? from GDS, C

Ostae Declasstica

ADMIREz OT

SATRIS

REC- 28

105-93072-137

18 MAY 27 1966

1/3/95

Classifed

1

Bureau (RMY ghosily on:

by SA&MACCA

DADR

- New York

JEH: egb

155

31 JUN 1 5 1966

C..

NAI

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HH

55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 57

---

## Page 58

5-145b (8=13-65)

SE

Assistant Attorney General

Internal Security Division

Director, FBI

EMERGENCY DETENTION PROGRAM

SUBS

1000

• Lt, Ginacock

* d. Cagoner

* 17• Ruebl

PRIATE AGEI

AND ET

ADY:

IP

The name of the subject appearing below has been

approved for inclusion in the Security Index by the Internal

Security Division of the Department.

Name:,

FBI File Number:

Department Approved:

Date of Last Report:

soverber 0, 1002

1988

Chested by

Exame, trem GOS, Cate

Data of Osclassification

Investigation has failed to develop evidence of recent

subversive activities or affiliations on the part of the subject.

All pertinent information concerning the reported past subversive

activities of the subject has been furnished the Records

Administration Office.

It is requésted that the results of the investigation be

reviewed to determine whether the subject's name should continue

to be included in the Security Index.

100-398030

105-00340

(Cuban

100-36606

(Socuesty

Indork

205-03032

(Metard Thoms Gibson)

NOTE:

SAC,

York

Pending receipt of reply from Department, subject's name will be retained in Security Index.

V3u soje

(9)

015/2395

x03x5668 dId GAT

105-93072

JFK)

NOY BROORDED

170 JUN 1 4 1966

NOTE:

Letter classified "Secret* as pertains to SI and EDP, component parts of which are so classified

by the Department.

182

3710

SP

GROUP

Excluded from

downgrading and!

stomatic

declassification

74 55509

DocId: 32339279

Page 58

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 59

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

IGSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRED

TO

FROM

Mr. Do Jo Brennan, Jap

W. 0. Cregar|

"DATE: February 24, 1966

SECRET

olson -a-

deLoach i

Wick

Casper

Callahan -

Conrad

Felt.

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter. -

Tele. Room

Holmes —

Gandy -

SUBJECT

SUGAR

IS

- CUB

(5)

On 2/21/66, Mr. Calvin Tenney, CIA, advised the Liaison

Agent of the following:

On 2/11/66, SUGAR advised representatives

of CIA of the following

On 1/26/66, While in Brussels, Belgium, he

met a woman who called herself Lisa Armand. She advised SJGAR that

she was there for talks with Jacques Grippa, who is the leader of

the pro Chinese faction O-the Belgian communist rarty, concerning

the defense for

r William Epton.

Following SUGAR's conversation with

Armand, he checked the hotel register where she was staying and

determined that this woman's passport identification listed hei

one Mrs. Frank.

Tenney advised he was furnishing this information to

the Liaison Agent inasmuch as Mrs. Frank could possibly be identical

with Susan Heiligman Frank, who is pro Chinese and of interest to

the Bureau®

ACTION:

usence section for its Iotormation. l

above should be directed to the Nationalities Intelli

Мик (5)

SECRET

?

1

- Mr. Grove

Mi - Liaison

Mr. Cotter

]

• Mr. Cregar

Galegory

Classisted by

+ 11.

Exempt from GDS,

• 3'

Catas! Dodassi

MAR 11 1966

11/5194

Classied by 588mAC/GCL

Declassify on: MADE JFK)

8 101

WIFE WERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

69 MAR 25 1966

SECRET

REC- 76

SECRET

105-930z7-136

84 MAR IQ 19661

UNPECORDED COPS FILED IN

774 55509

32339279

Page 59

---

