# docid-32334425

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10131

RECORD SERIES :

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-2027-25

Released under the John

*. kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NIT 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

• TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/07/1965

2

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

MINUTEMEN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : LHM

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32334425

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dallas,

Texas

September 7, 1965

AMERICAN UNDERGROUND

Also Known As Minutemen

Fort Worth, Texas

DECLASSITIED BY SP 8670/CIF

ON_

129/83

_2/1526

The following information is 'supplemental to the

information furnished in letterhead memorandum of July 21, 1965.

The following information was furnished on August 27,

1965, by Dallas T-1:

Dallas T-l advised that he recently had heard that

there were two meetings of the above organization held at the

home of Delbert Ray in Midlothian, Texas.

Dallas T-l stated he

had not personally attended the meetings and, therefore, did not

know how many people were present or the dates the meetings were

held.

He said he had been told that Otto (Duke) Koling had

attended both of the meetings.

Dallas T-1 related he heard that the discussion which

developed

at these meetings concerned the recent racial riots

which occurred in Los Angeles,

California, and the possibility

that such riots might occur in the Dallas,

Texas, area.

Dallas

I-I related that he did not know at present if any specific plans

had been formulated concerning what steps might be taken by

captioned organization should similar riots occur in the Dallas,

Texas, area.

Dallas I-l advised that other than the above meetings,

he knew of no presentplans of the group, but said he would remain

alert for such information.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency.

It and its con-

tents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

11 - Bureau (RM)

7 - Dallas

(1 - 62-107261)

(4)

105-2027)

• - Kansas City (1,- 62-7797) (RM)

105-1280)

2

- OSI, DL (RM) :

GAQUE 1

(1

- 157-218)

- Secret Service, DI Ride fro

1 autobatto

-338)

Serialily

ETC, DL (RM)

Index

ATTU, Dallas (RM)

loungrading sew: rmo

leclassificatian)

"File

Search

CONFYENTIAL

105-2027-25

NW 53074 DooId: 32334425 Page 2

---

