# docid-32290865

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10206-10141

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-282

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/08/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

CIP, FORT WORTH PDT, CORRUPTION, GAMBLING, ACT,

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760

DocId: 32290865

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

5.7

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Date: 1/8/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

DIRECTOR

FBI: (62-9-12)

DALLAS (94-55A-S08)

AC,

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAN

WEEKLY.

• SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel 1/2/62.

Re:

SHERMAN LITTLE,

IGA

(DL 162-129)

aka.

00 1/4/62, DL-95-C identified the third owner of

the Red Men Club as

Postman ELMER GLUCK.

GLUCK was & Postman

involved in

hi jacking

of & poker game several years ago

in Dallas and

further investigation being conducted concerning

GLUCK.

Re:

FORT WORTH PD

(DL 80-255)

on 1/2/629

Patrolman LEONARD DORSETT, advised

SA JOSEPH M. MYERS that former Fort Worth police Lieutenant

NCCALEB who resigned fron the fort

Worth PD several months

ago is now employed at a

liquor store at

28th and Cliff Streets

in Fort Worth.

DORSETT

stated

that MCCALES could possibly be

(3:= Bureau

1 » Dallas

1 = Dallas

1 =

Dallas

1 = Dallas (94-55A-SUB)

(162-129)

(80-255)

(162-1)

RMB/11-

(7)

REC- 102

€

61-9-12-230

82 JAN 10 1951

3 JAN 25 1962

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

NW 45760 DocId: 32290865

Page

2

---

## Page 3

/ I DI 94- 55A-SUB

developed into

good source

of.

information as he is believed

to know

.& lot about the criminal elenent

in Ft. Worth.

Efforts

are being made

to contact MCCALEB to

develop him as a f7).

DORSETT advised that former Vice Squad

Sergeant ROBERT WOOTEN

who resigned

California

from the ID about 2 years

ago is nor located I

town not known, but is reported

to have purchased

wotel there for $40,000

and

this. notey is

believed to have eX

come fron payofts received by WOOTEN fron prostitutes and

ganbling in Ft. Worth prior to his leaving the force.

DORSETT

stated he understood that WOOTEN had

gone to California prior

to leaving Fort Worth permanently

and took two Fort Worth

prostitutes with hin and spent something like

$20,000 on

this

trip while in California.

This information was also furnished

to SA MYERS On 1/4/62 by Di-84-C and PCI

DI - 84 -C

advised that while in Ft. Worth when

she

was

residing

9th

Ave, she gave Officer WOOTEN $20 to $50 over a period of

6 or 7 months. every

few days.

Informant stated that at the

time she was earning a lot of money as a prostitute and

estimated that she gave HOOTEN approsimately $1, 000 over

few month's period.

At one time

she stated she

gave. WOOTEN

either $10 or $20 when he approached her at a

• telephone booth

in the downtown section of Fort Worth. Informant stated

further that & Negro bellhop named TINY at the Rockwood

Courts on the Jacksbord Highway had told her somewhere around

1958 or 1959 that

California.

"OTEN took two Ft. worth prostitutes to

DL-84-C stated that most recently she has

given

$10

to

$20

at

different

times to

Vice Squad Officers

E.

M.

BILGER,

HI.

To

CLOCK

and Vice Squad Officer McMILIAN.

stated that he has

seversl girls working for hin in

FE

Worth in 195%, 58 and

59 and be estinated that he gave

former Vice Squsd

l Officer WOOTEN $500 to $600 in cash over

period of several months. plus a diamond ring which he

understood WOOTEN

was wearing when he left Ft. Worth.

stated that he

had been told by Ft. Worth prostitutes

VIC IN CARMICHAEL and another Ft:

Worth prostitute named

PAT, last name

did not recall, that they had traveled

to California with WOOTEN about 1958 and WOOTEN had spent

$20,000 10 825, 000 on then in clothes and jewelry wile

Istated that CARMICHAEL told him that she had

seen

WOOTEN with either $104,000 or $140,000 in cash in his

suitcase.

(A new

31 •matter

is being opened in the

• Dallas

Division re this).

Patrolman

DORSENT advised

learned throug

some of his

associates

of Police CATO

HIGHTOWER's brother

i C.

1/7/62

that he had

in the

PD

that Chiet

HIGHTOWER,

formerly

TEX

OTHER 4

2

NW 45760 DocId: 32290865

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A -SUB

operated a building plant koown as University

Supply and

Equipment Co. &t

Last

Rosedale and East Lincaster

Streets

in

Fort Worth until s

short

time ago when he

went into

bankruptcy.

DORSAIT stated be

understood that the

1957

and 1958 Fort Worth police annuals had been printed by

conpany and that the amuals

• purchased

officers

the PD for p6.

DORSEIT astimated

1,000 annials were printed, costing

officers about

$60,000 and DORSEM felt sure that HIGHTOWER

received

this business.

furnished to

the

IRS

information

in Fort

Worth.

Re: GAMBLING ACTIVITIES

DALIAS DIVISION (DL 162-1)

•PCI

advised SA JOSEPH M.

MYERS

on: 1/4/62

that BUZZ NEWMAN

is operating a poker gane

every. Friday night in

Apartment

at the

apartment house

located at the Northesst corner. of

HASKELL And GASTON

Avemes in Dallas,

Texas:

stated that he had

been

there on the

previous Friday might and was asleep.

in another room when be overheard two people

concerning the operation of this game

and

talking

mentioned

was

made of Sheriff BIT.

DECKER and some officers

belleved to be jo.

in

the Dallas by the name of

CATTIS Or GADDIE:

stated that the conversation

between NEWMAN and

an unidentified individual was to the

effect tha: NEWMAN

knew GADDIS OF DECKER

and operation of

this game was all right.

further stated that he

had been playing dominoes

at Do1ly'8

Domino Hall on Akard

Street and that some gambling is taking place in this domino

parlor as well as the others around Dallas.

that some of the operators of the donino parlors believe

the PD have two undercover men working these parlors

attsapting to mike cases.

however

these

two men have been

identified by the domino operators

and no ganbling is taking

place and these

two men are

seen in the parlors.

The above infomation

has been furnished to

Lt, JACK REVIL, Criminal Intelligence Squad,

Dallas PD

and Texas Ranger CHARLES MOORE, Dallas on 1/5/62.

It.

REVILL stated

that he knows BUZZ NEWMAN who is WILLIAM

EUGENE NEWMAN, FBI #389040A.

OTHER 4

3

NW 45760 DocId: 32290865

Page 4

---

