# docid-32334029

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10022

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 63-7047-26

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N! 45076 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

09/08/1961

PAGES:

30

SUBJECTS :

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/12/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DEA, IRS

COMMENTS:

RPT, REFERRED TO DEA

v9.1

HH 45876

5

DocId: 32334029

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Po 62-2702

JSP/RIG

(1)

September 5, 1901, former Po 509-0, who in the past ha:

supplied reliable Information, was Intervloved by sa John

S. PORTELLA at the Hotel Webater Hasts ratospuren, ra.

Informant advised that he has known BENNIE HUSICK a11 his

life; that HUSICK, left Pittaburgh sometime during 1954; and

went to Miami Beach, Florida, that while 1n Plttsburgh,

HUsICK was In the narootlo racket and tanoing racket; that

shortly after he left Pittsburgh and arrived in Miami in

1954,

it is rumored that BENNIE made a "big soone"

in the

narcotics field in Florida whioh give him his start, that

soon after his arrival In Miami Beach, he associated himself

knows this person by no other name and FAT tONY (Informant

knows this person by no other name: that bustok at one

present time 1a part of a group that operates & bookuaking

and gambling joint on washington Street between 5th and 6th

JOE MASI 10, the undisputed bons of Mians Beach, and & very

close friend and assoolate of BindId huscks chat over one

Plorida,

and bookmaking, HUSICK, Using

"Shylock" In Miami Beaoh; that MIKE COPPOLA and PAT TONY

run a numbers and sports betting business and turn. everything

In to HUSICK and MASI; that JOE B from Detrolt 15 also In

Miami Beach and closely assoolated with HUSICK and MASI;

and that Mast maintains an oftioe at 212 2sra street, lami

Beach, Florida, where he generally oan be located until

1:00 p.m.; and MASI conduots most of his business from the

office he

ove mares.

maintaing on the ground floor at the above address.

Informant stated that about 4 years ago BENNIE HUSICK waS

Involved in attempting to organize the cab drivers in Miami

Beach, Florida, and at that time he had a close connection

with a

top labor leader, whose identity in not known to the

informant.

Informant atated that while HUSICK was

engaged

In this type of activity, he was using the servloes

"of a

• Pittsburgh man, JOE DISNOFP, who at that time was in Miami

Beach driving a taxi oab.

* B

COVER PAGE

HIH

45876 DocId: 32334029

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of: GEORGE KEEFER

Date:

9/8/61

Field Office File #:

Pittsburgh 62-2702

Title:

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

BENJAMIN HUSICK

Office:

PITTSBURCH

Bureau File #: 63-5327

Character: MISCER ANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

Synopsis:

1944-53, describe him

plovers and neighbors of BENAMIN HSICK at pittsburgiquare,".

No bank account

located.

HUSICK owned one dwelling during 1944-45. Court officials,

witnesses, jurors and attorneys involved in 1948-49 prosecution of

HUSICK at Pittsburgh, Pa., unable to furnish specific background

information concerning him. Similar results obtained from persons

involved in subsequent jury fixing proceedings in 1949 and surety of the

peace charge in 1953. HUSICK's divorces from GRACE in 1940 and BEATRICE

in 1953 at Pittsburgh verified. Whereabouts of ex-wives unknown. Credit

and arrest checks on his present wife, ELIZABETH MARGARETTA MC BRIDE

HUSICK, nee SPENCER, negative.

No record of HUSICK as holder of

wagering stamp.

Records of U. S. Narcotics Bureau describe him as

"opium smoker"

1n 1949.

-RUC-

HH 45876

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32334029 Page 3

---

## Page 4

RMG/ gb

(2) -

PG 62-2702

Inquiry of DOLSO SOLARI at 500 South Lang St.,

disclosed

that he purchased the apartment building at 6756-

Mc Pherson Boulevard during late 1954 through a

realtors HOWARD ANTES, located on Penn Ave. in Wilkinsburg,

• pa.

Inquiry of HOWARD ANTES, Penn Ave., Wilkinsburg, Pa.,

disclosed

that the owner of

er or the buizat

the building at 6756

Mc Pherson Boulevard prior to 1954 was PATRICK J. CONWAY,

who resides at 858 E. Hutchinson Ave., Edgewood, Pa.

Mr. PATRICK J. CONWAY, 858 East Hutchinson Ave.., Edgewood,

advised that he purchased the apartment at 6756 Mc Pherson

Boulevard during 1953 and that to the best of his

recollection no one occupied any of the apartments by the

name of HUSICK. Mr. CONWAY further stated that he maintained

no rental receipts or any other records concerning his

rentals of this property and that he knew of no one

presently in the Pittsburgh area who would be in a

position to advise as to the occupancies of the property

during 1953%

on September 8, 1961, Mr: GEORGE EMRICH, Investigator

for U:S. Narcotics Bureau, Federal Building, advised

that records of his office reflect that on January 28; 1949,

BENJAMIN HUSICK, who had robbed a bank in Wilkinsburg,

Pa., in 1948, was an opium smoker.

21:

4586

DooId: 32334029 Page 4

---

