# docid-32371752

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY

INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10246-10022

RECORD SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: COS, MEXICO CITY

TO : CHIEF,

KURIOT

TITLE

: OPERATIONAL/MONTHLY REPORT - - 1-31 AUGUST 1963

DATE

: 09/24/1963

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

MONTHLY REPORT

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSMENTATION : SACRE

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS

• RELEASED IN

PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/07/04

COMMENTS : JFK31 : F6 : 20040318-1060313

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-21-2017

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10246-10022

14 53217

DocId: 32371752

Page

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

INFO.

Chief, KURIOT

Chief, WH Division

Attn: Photographic Branch

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT

Operational/ Monthly Report -- 1-31 August 1963

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Action: None. For your information.

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

NLY QUALIFIED DES

AN JUDGE INDEXIA

MICROFILM

Presented below is a reporting of the operational and support activities of

Gregory D. PARMUTH for the above mentioned period.

1. GENERAL SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES

Iwo photographic ôperational assignments were completed by PARMUTH

during the month of August. Station support activities were normal, although

photographic production for the month rose considerably while outside Station

support tapered off considerably. Photographic basehouses covering Soviet

and Satellite embassies produced normally during this reporting period..

2. TDY

None.

3. TRAINING

A short training period was given to Phineas F. SLINKARD in the

use of the necktie camera concealment device.

(contined)

Enclosures:

Photographs

Distribution:

2- KURIOT, w/encls

1 = WH, w/o encls

CROSS REFERENCE TO

17H 53217

DocId: 32371752

Pare 2

automatic

Excluded frei

dowagradina

stid

deslessitica

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22182

CLASSIFICATION

SEGREI

50-6-18

DATE

24 September 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

-50-6-18

# 16045

---

## Page 3

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA -22182

4. OPERATIONS

On 2 August Phineas F. SLINKARD requested PARMUTH to

photograph two BEDOX targets scheduled to meet during the late afternoon

(1830) at a busy corner in Mexico City. PARMUTH used the necktie camera

concealment device for this operation.

On 29 August Lee R. MYLECHRAINE requested PARMUTH to

photograph a meeting that was to take place between Simon D. CLACKETT

and a local travel agent engaged in semi-clandestine booking and travel

arrangements for Central and South American Communists.

The meeting

was to take place during the late afternoon on a street corner with sufficient

lighting from store show-case windows to get favorable photographic results.

The meeting was to take place at 1845 hours.

At 1830 hours, heavy rains

aborted all chances of taking a photograph at that location.

CLACKETT,

realizing the situation, met the target and guided him to the lobby of a movie

theater which was close to the original meeting site. WherCLACKETT

spotted PARMUTH, he guided the target to an area in the lobby best suited

for low light level photography (CLACKETT was trained in photography and

knew well the photographic problem). While talking, he positioned the

target in such a way so that PARMUTH could get good shots of the meeting.

The box camera concealment device was used on this operation. The Robot

Star camera using a 40: mm lens at F/2 at a speed of 1/30 sec. utilizing

Tri-X film produced good results.

Forwarded herewith are the photographs

taken from this operation.

This is the first operation in which PARMUTH

used the box camera concealment device.

STATION SUPPORT

a. On 1 August PARMUTH, SLINKARD and LIMOPE/1/2 removed

the special 500 mm F/2 lens from the LITABBY basehouse. Little difficulty

was encoutered in taking this lens from the basehouse area.

The lens was

taken to PARMUTH's residence and was then transferred to the MKCHARITY

basehouse where it will be held (if KURIOT agrees) for possible future

photographic requirements.

b. On 13 August PARMUTH photographed 561 frames, using the

Recordak, to fulfill a monthly Staff D requirement for the COS, Mexico City.

c. On 19 August PARMUTH delivered the LIFIRE/photographic truck

to the MKCHARITY basehouse. The truck will be used to test out audio

microphones installed at a local hotel.

d. On 21 August PARMUTH issued SLINKARD the necktie camera

concealment device and issued to his assistant the box camera concealment

device to cover the same area and targets as reported in 4.a. above.

e. On 22 August PARMUTH, using the LIFIRE truck as a mobile

listening post, participated in a test exercise to listen to the installed hidden

microphones which MULFORD installed at a local hotel.

5. STATION SUPPORT (Secret Writing)

d'. On 5 August PARMUTH was requested by Terrence P. MCGEE,

a visiting IDYer, to train AMTRAIL/1 in the use of the 37 carbon and the

29 developer which he would take into PBRUMEN and pass on to AMTRAIL/3.

Training was carried out satisfactorily.

b. On 20 August PARMUTH issued DEGRIP a new 37 carbon and

received the used carbon back from the responsible case officer.

FORM

10.57 530

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28. 51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SE

CLASSIFICATION

•E T

X CONTINUED

PAGE NO

2.

HH 53817 DocId: 32371752 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

S

-LASSIFICATION

RET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.

HMMA-22182

6.

MISCELLANEOUS STATISTICS

a. Number of operational target surveys completed during the month: 0.

b. Number of TDY trips completed during the month: 0.

c. Photographic equipment issued on loan for operational use: 2 items.

d. Photographic equipment repaired: 0.

e. Number of people trained in SW techniques/equipment: 1.

f. Number of people trained in photographic techniques/ equipment: 1.

7. PRODUCTION FIGURES ON JOBS PROCESSED

a. Black and white: 80 jobs.

(1) Total prints: 2, 600.

(2)

35mm microfilm: 6 feet.

(3) 35mm cassettes: 20.

(4) 120 size roll film: 3.

(5) Sheet film (all types): 0.

(6) Miscellaneous: 0.

b. Color: 0 jobs.

8. KURIOT STATION SUPPORT

a. Secret Writing: Issued new 37 carbon to DEGRIP. Trained AMTRAIL

in 37 carbon 29 developer.

b. Flaps

and seals:

--.

c. Chemical harrassment: --.

Stillas this"

FORM

10.57 530

(40)

WH 53217 DocId: 32371752

USE PREVIOUS EDITION

51-28.

51-28A

AND 51-29

SE

CLASSIFICATION

CRET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUED - - 2-

Page 4

---

