# docid-32322931

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90007-10009

RECORD SERIES: PG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-228-2-VOL2-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

PG

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/10/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GABRIEL MANNARINO

SAMUEL MANNARINO ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO;

v9.1

DocId: 32322931

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DAYD 13 110v1422817

OPTIONAL PORM MO, 10.

3010-106

let cather.

OSA ORM. REO. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-2914

92-2918

JUNE

) DATE:

4/10/61

FROM

SAC, PITTSDURGII (92-236-Sub 2)

SECRET

(92-228-Sub 2)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

2-4-97

RE:

5668 SID/ASe

CLASSIFIED BY

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

JFK)

Title

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka. ;

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.

Character of Case AR

Field Office Pittsburgh

Symbol Number PG 713-C4

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone)

M! INCORWATION CONTA MEO

19 UNOLASSIFIED

WHERE SHOWN NE

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:: "SchWiSe

GABRIEL MANNARINO aNd SAMUEL MANNARINO, alleged

members of la Cosa Nostra

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Ken Iron and Steel Company

1263 Third Avenue, New Kensington, Pa.

Private office of SAMUEL MANNARINO

Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh Office Consolidated Plant, at Pittsburgh FBI Office

450 Union Trust Building, Fifth Avenue and Grant Street,

Pittsburgh, Pa.

4.:

Dates of initial

authorization and installation:

Authorization 3-2-61

Installation 3-6-81

5.. Previous and other installations on the same. subject (with dates and places) :

None

6. Il installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

Not applicable

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

Original in

44-236-5457

Registered Mail

•Bureau

res/cna (3) Com

PacId: 32322931 Page 2.

98-828-5u62-15

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

d: Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. Il a party line, how many parties?

SECRET

T. Il a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone in west wall of subjects! office near desk.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert page. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes, and appropriate dissemination 1s being

10.

could afore hAffrifit save been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

Il. Number of live Informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Four - none close enough to subjects to visit office

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13.. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

None

14.: Cost of Plant Premises:

• 80

Rental costs for plant premises:

None (costs included in office rental)

bo Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Two units of & tesur (PG 177-S*] activated 6/6/62. (5)

One unit of

a misur

(PG 180-s*) activaied 8/23/62.

One unit of

& INISUT

(PG

622-04) activated

2/7/81.

One unit of a misur (PG 685-C4)

aotivated 6/14/63.

- 2.-

SECRET

DocId: 32322931

Page 3

---

