# docid-32302309

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10281-10029

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-80750-4564

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRENNAN, D. J. JR.

TO:

SULLIVAN. W. C.

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection

act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date: 10-12-2017

DATE:

03/15/1967

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CIA, FBI, RELATIONS, CASES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

H4 54463 DocId: 32302309

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

ГО

OPTIOTIAL FORM NO. 10

MAY, 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG" NO. 27

UNITED STATES

G

RNMENT

Memorandum

4|25193

SECRET

Mr. W. C. Sullivay

ATE:

(DeLoach

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIO

DECLASSIFICATIONTAND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA IMFORMATION

3/15/67 IN THIS DOCUMENT -

Det

FROM

:D. J. Brennan, JI

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1

MY.

Sullivan

Mr. Branigan

1

Liaison

SUBJECT CENTRAL, INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)H i] - Mr. Papich

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Director noted "f K

ote more, and more we are -telling ClA

about our domestic operations and always to our detriment.

I want this trend\stopped. H. "T A separate memorandum is

being submitted concerning a new development in the afore-

* mentioned, case).

185: 4019919÷ 41.11

r..:

5..,

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard

Heims, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to revie.

Cot

#21,378

Classified

Deckasily.

the status of relations.between FBI and CIA.

felt that this was an opportune time to do so in view or

the Director's concern as expressed above.

Helms stated that he personally was pleased with f

relations between the two Agencies.

He stated that sometimes

he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of

the Government ask the question""How are you getting along

with the FBI?"

He indicated that this question is frequently

asked by members. of

Congress.

Helms stated that he

CATCH CONTA MED

200A63277E0

12 340K0

АТИ ТАТОМ:

HBX21Z18

religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly

advising such people that relations are excellent.

He

stated that he personally believed that this was true. M.!'

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations

are good, but there was an area which might not be

getting

proper attention.

to be concerned

the Agent stated that there was reason

regarding effectivel coordination on those

cases which'are of interest to both' FBI and CIA because there

appeared to be developing an atmosphere where people in both

Agencies felt that there was now wide-open" liberty to conductor

operations and activities of a joint nature.

The Agent

stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmospher? huhd

cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any'

trend in this direction.

The Agent commented that work in

SEE REVERSE

SIDE BER

ASIFICATION

this area had to be very efficiently coordinated and that we

The Agent

suggested that Mr. Helms might desire'to alert appropriate

ACTION

suborainates in the Agency on this point 62-50759456

SJP: rab

CLASSIFIED BY S6& SLO/GREG 51

CONTINIED - OVER

5

(6)

9

MAR Z Mar

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X)(6/

* MAR 20 1967

1967

5FK) 1/36/977

5-02

226

HH 54463

DocId: 32302309

Page 2

---

