# docid-32301601

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10278-10436

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 29-31889-29

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45712 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

11/30/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

DEB, B/F INT, ASSOC, GUARANTY BANK AND TRUST CO.,

CG, CONSOLIDATED EMPIRE INC., MM, LOANS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS, FDIC

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO FDIC

v9.1

HH 45712

DocId: 32301601

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DE 29-1432

The following info was received by Dept. Attorney FRENCH from

FDIC, summarizing

portions of FDIC examination reports concerning

GBT :

"Examination report - 9-11-61 Open Section

"LOan DOMINICK BARTONE - $9,367.50

Classified Substandard

"Bartone from Cleveland, Ohio.

Loan arose thru collection

Ltem of Don Ross with Alvin Naiman Corp., of Clevelanc

originating @ $15M in Sept.,

1960.

As Collateral bank holds

note of Dinnag, Inc. dated 11-14-60 due 8-1-61. Lätter firm

engaged in airlines catering @ Miami International Airport.

Bartone financial statement reflects

assets @$483M and no

debts.

Assets principally investment in a Panamanian corpora-

tion and salary therefrom. Bank management not too clear as

to just what is involved but looks to Don Ross for payment,

which is expected in 30 days. Ross is a principal share-

holder of this bank and he and his interests are indebted

thereto some three quarters of a million dollars.

Ross said

to have guaranteed Bartone note, verbally.

loan is

said to have been an accomodation for Don Ross and his

associate Hal Opper, the latter also being an investor in

this bank.

"Examination report - 2-19-62 Open Section

"Loan Dominick Bartone $9,637.50 due 9-25-61 Classified Substandard

"Same

loan as above.

, Said to be guaranteed by Don Ross.

Latter's

statement of 11-28-60 reflects assets of $291,200.,

debts

• of $23,000. and

NW of $268,200."

The following memo, not otherwise identified, was located in

Public Bank files

during the FDIC examination

which began 12/26/61:

"MENO 8/19/60 --- Two checks totaling approximately 60M presented

on A.A. Naiman Corp. account when balance was approximately 29M.

We received a check

• for 50M on 8/19/ drawn on Guaranty Bank & Trust

Co. of Chicago by Dan Ross payable to Dominic E. Bartone.

Called

the bank and were informed there was

no such account.

Bartone

claimed he had made arrangements over the phone with Triscara to

have the bank honor the check.

Mr. Corrington, Pres. of the

Guaranty Bank then informed us that he had made arrangements on

Thursday to have 50M on deposit and that unless something happened

to his customer Ross, the money would be on deposit Monday".

_3-

NW 45712 DooId: 32301601 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DE 29-1432

Dept. Attorney FRENCH is particularly interested in the possible

involvment of LOUIS "BABE" TRISCARO in this matter; and

in

determining whether violations of ITSP, Mail Fraud,, or Fraud

by Wire may be indicated. by the facts concerning the above-

mentioned "no account" check for $50,000 on 8/19/60 and the

alleged "double pledging" of ANC accounts receivable to GBT.

It is noted that Public Bank claimed to have "prior and enforceable"

rights to all accounts receivable of ANC and Niagara Crushed

Stone, on the basis of assignments dated 10/23/59 and 4/7/60,

"covering all, existing and all future accounts".

In 10/60 JOSEPH F. VERHELLE stated that Public Bank's rights

as assignee had not been waived in any way for the benefit

of any person or party.

It is also noted that enclosure #7

refers to a financial statement

Of BARTONE dated 8/31/60, submitted to GBT, showing his assets

as $483,000 and no liabilities.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

Through examiñation of records and interviews with

appropriate GBT employees, LOUIS E. CORRINGTON, JR., and DONALD

ROSS, will ascertain full

details concerning:

1. Check for $50,000.00 drawn on GBT on or about 8/19/60 by DON

(OX DAN) ROSS, payable to DOMINICK E. BARTONE.

2. Arrangements between ROSS, TRISCARO, BARTONE and GBT re the

above check.

3. Pledge agreements by ANC to secure loans from GBT in 8/60

and 9/60.

4. Purpose of the above loans; how applied for; representations

made as to the security offered; any use of mail or wire

communications in negotiating the loans; responsibility for handling

these loans in GBT; how and to whom the proceeds were disbursed;

how the loans were repaid.

5. The nature of any guaranties by TRISCARO,

BARTONE or others

in re to these loans.

- 4-

45712 DocId: 32301601 Page 3

---

