# docid-32286225

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1342

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/26/1964

1

SGI, ASSOC AND REL, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286225

Page 1

65

---

## Page 2

released under the John F. Kenedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

744 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2014

Hagat

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)-1

Hotel

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

*XXTELETYPE

Callahan

Conrad

Evầns -

* Gale -

ERösen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

8:07 AM CST

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

DEFERRED

2-26-64 EH

260758

SAMUEL Ni.

GIANCANA, AKA. AR. ANTIRACKETEERING

CG 6576-0Ä ADVISED THAT PAT MARCY, FOLLOWING CONVERSION

WITH CHICAGO ATTORNEY MIKE BRODKIN, ISSUED INSTRUCTIONS TO

BUDDY JACOBSON, FIRST WARD. POLITICAL FIXER, TO MAKE CONTACT

WITH JUDGE RICHARD, NAPOLI, PRESENTLY ASSIGNMENT JUDGE OF

ILL

CIRCUIT COURT OF COOK COUNTY, FOR PURPOSE OF HAVING NAPOLI

CHANGE VENUE OF CAIFANO CASE, INSURANCE FRAUD CASE INVOLVING

MARSHALL CAIFANO, FROM JUDGE

WALTER DAHL TO JUDGE EMMET

MORRLSSES AS BUREAU AWARE MORRISSEY NOTORIOUS IN DISREGARDING

EVIDENCE OR ANY OTHER FACTORS IN CASES, CONCERNING HOODLUMS

AND AT BECK AND CALL OF FIRST WARD POLITICIANS. V

ABOVE SOURCE INDICATED GIANCANA OUT OF TOWN SINCE

FEBRUARY 21 LAST, HOWEVER, NO INDICATION GIVEN AS TO WHEREABOUTS

DURING PERIOD. MARCY GAVE ANTHONY TISCI, GIANCANA'S SON-IN-LAW

TWO TICKETS TO TV SHOWING OF HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONSHIP FIGHT

"IF HE GETS BACK IN TOWN IN TIME'' CG 6533-0 ADVISED GIANCANA

IN WESTERN SUBURBS THIS AFTERNOON. V

RECEIVED:

9:13 AM

EX-108

+N92-3111-1347

REC- 20.

& MAR

1964

CC: MR. EVANS

MAR 9

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ENCLASSIFIED

D: 154-23-90

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286225 Page 2

---

