# docid-32130277

## Page 1

Released under the John I Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 1et 011902 114 456 2107 Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

.. AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10038-10111

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-2018

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/22/1964

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: LHO, ADMIN, INSTRU

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/18/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LTR

DocId: 32130277 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releäsed under the John F. Kennedy Assassinatión Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATES:: 11-14-2017

5-82 (Ber 4-29-57b

Date: JANUARY 22, 1964

To:

Director, FBI

ConfidentialBufile :

Attention

Foots: Legal Attache, Ottawa

163-364

Title

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN F. KENNEDY, 11/22/63

Dallas, Texas

Character

FPC

Reference

Bucket

Bureau airtel to Ottawa

12/13/63, captioned "LEE

HARVEY

"OSWALDN"

Enclosed are the following communications received from the RCMP

Three copies of

RCMP letter dated January

20, 1964, together with one copy of

Album of photographs.lc)

Remarks:

Please note paragraph #7 of enclosed RCMP letter which states

that Album is to be returned to RCMP when it has served its

purpose. (C)

(586) 2133199

CLASSIFIED BY SEES SLO/Sel

JAN 27÷964

3-8-93

DECLASSIFY ON: 25XC)

EXP."PR

200A

ed By 9803

OLER

JFK

Eeth to file 31

sill

085: poli

Dissemination

May be made as received

May

obe made as indicated by stamp on enclosure

(y not be made without further clearance with RCMP/G)

Baie of Billy

don Incetinate

Following offices would be interested in receiving copies of enclosures:

Dallas

1°1.

Status with this office: NUlf

RUC

Pending

33861.00

105-

3 - Bureau (Encs. 4),

Do not write in space

below

82555-

2018

REC 29

* (1-Dallas)

81 - Ottawa

25 In đố 1964

MLI: MEG

A (4)

Confidential

DocId: 32130277

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennet

• DATE: 11-14-2017

ADDRESSES: -

CORRESPONCENCE TO BE

THE COMMISSIONER,.

R. C. M.

POLICE,

OTTAWA 8.

CANADA

assination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

FILE NO. D 933-21533

HEADQUARTERS

OT TAWA 8,

CANADA

January 20, 1964.

CONFIDENTIAL

Dear Mr. Innes:

This has reference to your letter of December

18, 1963, re:

Lee

Harvey OSWALD, Internal Security - R,

your file reference 163-364.

Canadas.

Enquiries conducted in Montreal revealed that

Mr. Aurelien CHASSE was unable to add anything further

than that which was contained in his letter to the

United States Secret Service. Mr. CHASSE stated that

the first paragraph

of his letter was a summarization

of all the information he had obtained

from the press

and from word of mouth, and he was unable to name anyone

who could furnish definite information regarding OSWALD'S

appearance in Montreal, apart from Mr. Jean Paul TREMBLAY.

3.

Regarding the information given by Mr. Jean

Paul

TREMBLAY, Mr.

TREMBLAY stated that on the day he

canadies

was given the pamphlet by the person who he positively

identifies as

Lee Harvey OSWALD, he also saw approximately

six other people handing out leaflets.

Mr. TREMBLAY is

uncertain about the dates the incident took place but

believes it occurred in August.

Photographs of persons

participating in the Quebec - Washington - Guantanamo

for Peace in Montreal on

the 7th and

8th of June 1963,

were shown to Mr. TREMBLAY, who positively identified

of them as

engaged in distributing leaflets on the

day in question.

of the persons he positively

identified was the same woman described in your memorandum.

canade

The other person identified by Mr. TREMBLAY is believed to

be FreaxMOORE Of San Antonio,

He could not

identify any of the other people in

the photographs as

being present that date nor could he point out the person

who gave him the leaflet and who he believes to be OSWALD.

A check of our records reveals that some off the

Washington -

35, 01 New York;

Connecti-

cut; A.J MUSTE,

National Chairman

of the Committee for

Non-Violent Action; George WILTOUGHBY, Chairman of "the"

Executive Committee of the Committee for Non-Violent

Action; Fred MOORE Jr. !

of Fillmore,

, California.

persons were seen driving a black Henney limousine bearing

1963 Connecticut licence number CD 726.

Indications are

that a 1948 or 1949 green Plymouth bearing 1963 Connecti=

cut licence plate number 489-453 may have also been used

by this group.

THE FOREGORO IS PASSED FOR THE INFOR

MATED FOR OSITIAL PUNNUSES IP NECESSARY

BUT THE ROFAL CAMADIAN ROUNTRO POUCE 18

NOT TO BE MAMED AS TAB BOUNCE.

Mr. Moss

Lee

c/o U.S. Embassy,

100

Wellington St.,

OTTAWA, Ontario.

• 6000/2

DocId: 32130277 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the felt F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act or 1992 714 USt 2107 Note).

- DATE:-11-14-2017

2

-

D 933-21533

CONFIDENTIAL

50

Additional enquiries in Montreal failed to

reveal anyone who could state that Lee Harvey OSWALD

had been in that city during the summer of 1963.

6.

Although Mr. TREMBLAY believes this incident'

took place in August of 1963 judging by his identifica-

tion of the photographs, it would appear that he

actually saw them in early June of 1963.

An album containing photographs of partici-

pants in the Quebec - Washington - Guantanamo Walk for

Peace is attached hereto and the persons TREMBLAY

identified are persons listed as number 1 and 2 ir

Photographs of the auto-

mobile bearing Connecticut licence plate number CD 726

are contained in photographs 9 and 10. Please return

album when same has served its purpose.

Yours very truly,

THE FOREGOING IS PASSED

FOR THE INFOR

MATION OF YOUR AGENCY, IT MAY DE DISSEME

NATED FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES IF NECESSARY

BUT IME ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE 1L

MOT TO BE NAMED AS THE SOURCE.:

(J.R.W. Bordeleau),

Assistant Commissioner,

• Director,

Security and Intelligence.

B0c11:32130777

-Pate-

---

## Page 5

Release

the John F. Kennedy Assassiñation Records Collection Act of 199241) USc 2107 Hote).

14-2017

= Branigan

Lénihan

I - J. M. Sizoo

3/19/64

Director, FBI (105-32555)-

201

Confidential

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS - R - CUB

3-8-42

1200:0

ReBuairtel 12/13/63 captioned "Lee Harvey

Oswald"

JER SpitiAto

and your letter 1/22/64 captioned "Assassimation of President

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLo/sel

Joun to benneey,

11/22/64,

re intormation

in August, 1963, a pamphlet entitled "Fair Play for Cuba"

from an individual

he believed was Lee Harvey Oswald

(6)

Pursuant to instructions in Bunirtel 12/13/63

UNY ON: 25X

2/22/99

should

prepare an appropriate letterhead umo randun in this

matter suitable

for dissemination, omitting

the bureau

Include in letterhead memorandun the contents

the letcer received by secret service from the bureau of

Customs in contres. which was later fumished to the Bureau by

Secret Service.

set. forth in letterhead menoraidun the

results of the RouP inquiry conducted in this natter.

Bureau

DFCLA

is enclosing three

sets of photographic prints made frow the

pop album furnished by vour letter of 1/22/64 and you shoul

make one ser an enclosure to each on two letterhead

memoranda

for dissemination to the President's Commission at the Bureau.

The third

set of

prints is for your file?

The album of photographs of participants of the "Walk

for Peace" loaned to you by the ROMP is enclosed for

return to

ALE TUFORMATION CONTAMLED

MAR w: 9 1964

COMM-FBI

HEREI IS URCLASSIROAS

Enclosures

EXOEPT WHERE SHON

OTHER

- Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for

review)

101/77

No

Classif

210/40

Category.

sion Indefinate

Tolson Vin NOTE:

ICE

Date

Belmont:

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

-letter of

11/29/03 from I. S.

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Cantons and ExciBor cored Jean Pael Tremblay, Investigator

Gule

Rosen

Customs and Excis Arir Play

Investigator,

for, Cubalin Montreal in what he

Sullivan -

believed was Augusto,??63yefrom a man whom he believed was

Tavel

CO

Trotter

Tele. Room-

Holmes.

21964-

Gandy

Contidantial

DocId: 32130277 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released

DATE

unedy Assassination Records

1-14-2017

Letter to Ottawa

• Re:

LEE HARVKY. OSNALD

105-82555

Cottidential

NOTE CONTINUED:

000579019194

"determine if Oswald was in Montreal at alleged period. RCMP

inguiry negative but they did furnish the Legat with a photo

album of individuals participating in a

""walk for Peace" ir

Montreal on June 7 and 8, 1963.

Mr. Tremblay stated that the

individual he believed was swald was seen by him on the same

day he saw six other individuals handing out

"Cuba" literature®

He has identified by photographs two of the individuals as

passing out literature on the day in question. According to

RCMP, however, Tremblay could not point out in these photos

the person who gave him the pamphlet and who he believes to

ave been Oswald. we know that uswald was at work in new vrlean

1963 From time punc

cards of the William B. Reily

on ture to bleans. femiscon wit be furnished letterhead

Confidential

22 -

donatour!

WAS COCo

DocId: 32130277

Page 6

---

