# docid-32177783

## Page 1

edeased undes the John EKennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet o1 1992-41 156 4407

otel

DATE 011-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10193-10031

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MAJOR, D. G.

TO: STUKEY, D. E. II

TITLE: CR 105-379908-75

DATE: 01/23/1990

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT: LHO, RP, MNO, SOVIET PERMISSION, RETURN TO US

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

01/13/1999

Redact

• UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

46 OF 55 PAGES NAR, INC RPT

DocId: 32177783 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum

SECRET

To :

Fror

ME. D. E. StukletE CIA HAS NO ABUESTION PRE

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF GA INFOMIVATION

G. Major

IN THIS DOCUMENT AS DAnt

1/23/90

Exec AD Adm.

Exec AD Inv.

Exec AD .LES

,;Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Insp.

Intell.

Legal Coun.

Of1. Cong. &

Public Affs.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Off. Lialson &

Int. Atts.

Telephone Am

Director's Sec'y

Subject :

FLASH

RUN DEBRIEFING

REPORTS™

"-FCI-SU

Grang

This communication is classified "Secret"

in its

4, 5, 7, 9, 1,16;

entiratay.

PURPOSE:

19, 21, 23, 24 V

26, 28,30,34,35.

reporting

To provide CI-l Section with the most significant

27,32 47,

from FLASH RUN during debriefings from 1/9/90 to

1/12/90(5)

RECOMMENDATIONS:

• That copies of the attached report be disseminated to CS

the CIA and certain friendly foreign intelligence services as

ALL INFORKATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPY

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

05-RMB Mde 3-11-94(576)

Ciassified be 9803-20d/puds

(CONTINUED-OVER)

27 - ENCLOSURE

105-New

ENSI, RENIND FRA

1 - Mr. D. E. Stukey II

(Attn: Mr. J. A. Swanda)

1 - Mr. D. G. Major

(Attn:

Mr. T. J. Booth)

1

- Mr. J.

J. Berkin

1

- Mr. J. P. Milburn

JPM: ASS

'(5)

SECRET

Classifi ech by

Declassply on:

bell

DocId: 3217

7783 • Paue 2

(105-379908-751

C-Beakin

9/12/48

1/2/98-..-

942

OADR

CLASSIFIED BY: 56655/rele

REASON:

Only sue Pope, and End papa.

# U.S.G.P.O.: 1988-202-042/75505

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Memorandum Irom D. G. Major to Mr. D. E. Stukey II

Re:

FLASH RUN DEBRIEFING

REPORTS

FCI-SU

2615

DETAILS:

Directorate (SCD), has been providing considerable information

KGB recruitments of foreign nationals and attempts to penetrate

Foreign diplomatic establishments in the USSR. > The CI-3A Unit

as prepared debriefing reportsfon these KGB operations) for S.

appropriate dissemination to the CIA and foreign intelligence

The attached reports are based on debriefings conducted (S]

vith FLASH RUN during the period 1/9/90 to 1/12/9 fne CIA Cano L S^

recommended that these reports be disseminated to

certain foreign intelligence services as appropriate. (

SECRET

DocId: 32177783

Page 3

---

## Page 4

-Released-under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Revords Cortection Aot of T992 771 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mêmorandum

SECRET

To

Sirbject

D. E. StukpuchEd'CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

G. Major

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT AA SAniten

11/2/98

1/23/90

Exec AD AdM. -*-

ExeC AD inv.

EXEC AD LES

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs. -

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun.

Off. Cong. &

Public Affs.

Roc. Mgnt.

Tach. Serrs.

Training

Off. Lialson &

Int. Atts.

Telephone

Am.

Director's Sec'y

FLASH RUN DEBRIEFIN

REPORTS

FCI-SU

(5)

Tentinety

PURPOSE:

This communication is classified "Secret" fir Its

15.8.7 11,16

19, 21, 23,24

:26,28,30,34,35

:37,38,39,47

48,52, 51

To provide CI-1 Section with the most significant

from FLASH RUN during debriefings from 1/9/90 to

1/12/90. 5)

RECOMMENDATIONS:

That copies of the attached report be disseminated to (S]

he cIA land certain friendly foreign intelligence serviCes

ppropriate.s

. NIT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HOSETN IS UNCIASSIFIED EXCEPT

M

SHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

28-941

05-896 nde 3-1/94(544

Glassied by 803 Faute

Declassify on: OADA (JFK

27-ENGLESUIE

CLASSIFIED BY: 5268-5us/rd

They come Pages and,

REASON: 1.5 (C, d.)

Endpuses 3536,37

105-New

DECLASSIFY ON: XC), (6) (5FK)

1 - ME. D: Bo Stufee pagan and Cil Page 35, 36,37,

(CONTINUED-OVER)

(Attn:

Mr. J. A. Swanda)

1 - Mr.

D. G. Major

(Attn :

Mr. T. J. Booth)

1 - Mr.

J. J.

Berkin

+105-379908-73566)

1 - Mr.

J. P. Milburn

JPM: CM35(5)

SECRET

Classified by

Declassify pn:

942

OADR

COPY

4-17-90

DocId: 32177783 Page 4

#U.S.G.P.O.: 1988-202-042/75505

---

## Page 5

.. Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 +11-U3C-2107-1

Note)e:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

-

Memorandum from D. G. Major to Mr. D. E. Stukey II

Re:

REPORTS

FRESH RUN DEBRIEFING (S)

FCI-SU

DETAILS:

FLASH RUN, a recent KGB defector from the Second Chief (SJ

Directorate (SCD), has been providing considerable information on

KGB recruitments

of foreign nationals and attempts to penetrate

foreign diplomatic establishments in the USSR. The CI-3A Unit

nas prepared debriefing reports (on these KGB operations for

appropriate dissemination to the CIA and foreign intelligence

The attached reports are based on debriefings conducted (S

with FLASH RUN during the period 1/9/90 to t/d 40 The tIAland (S]

recommended that these reports be disseminated to

certain foreign intelligence services as appropriate.

SECRET

- 2

DocId: 32177783

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 ÜSC-2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

-+.

SECRET

SIGNIFICANT SCD OPERATIONS

Lairies or nat out to unary 022, 190, 18)

9/11/98

CLASSIFIED BY: 566854ude

REASON: 1.5 (c, d.)

This document is classified "SECRET" in its entirety.

WARNING: THIS INFORMATION IS DERVIED FROM A SOURCE OF EXTREME

SENSITIVITY. DISCLOSURE OF THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN MAY

REASONABLY BE EXPECTED TO LEAD TO DISCLOSURE OF THE SOURCE'S

IDENTITY, AND TO THE LOSS OF THE SOURCE. NO ACTION ON OR FURTHER

AC TON ON OR TE

DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE MADE WITHOUT FBIHO

AUTHORITY.

ATl: INFORMATTOM CONTATRED

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

5972

Declassify on: OADR JFK

Couly page

reniciet

SECRET

Classified

by:

Declassif lon:

DocId: 32177783 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

LEE HARVEYX

OSWALD AND WIFE MARINA ROSWAld

The source discussed the Lee Harvey OSWALD case with

former instructors at the

Minsk KGB Higher School of

counterintelligence. (g(U)

Following his defection to the USSR, OSWALD was

resettled in Minsk, outside of Moscow. He was placed under full

surveillance by the regional or territorial KGB in Minsk.

KGB

officers from the Second Directorate of the White Russian KGB

were in contact with Oswald and considered him an agent because

he would provide them with some information on his past. Marina

was also considered an agent.

Oswald resided very close to Victory Square and the KGB

Higher School in Minsk. His apartment was very nice by Soviet

standards.

Oswald was also interrogated several times by KGB

officers in Moscow.

The source does not know what type of

information OSWALD

provided to the KGB in Minsk or Moscow.

OSWALD fell into deep depression in the USSR. He was

homesick and wanted to return to the United States.

He

eventually received Soviet permission to return

to the United

States with his wife Marina.

His KGB handlers did consider passing OSWALD to the

First Chief Directorate to be handled by a KGB residency in the

United States.

This proposal was ultimately rejected, however,

because OSWALD was considered too unstable. According to the

source, the KGB did not handle OSWALD in the United States and

had no

further contacts with him.

Marina was considered an agent, but she did not like to

cooperate with the KGB.

She was interested in OSWALD, but even

more interested in getting away from the Soviet Union

and

poverty.

were Colonel Torchuk, Colonel Sluzer, and colonel Schlobochekov. (&

These individuals used to be members of the white Russian KGB.

• no ye restore,

Athe KGB instructors who told the source about OSWALD

SCD officers Aleksey, YEGOROV and Leonia GOLUBOVSKIX also told him

about this operation

The stories were all consistent.

M1D194211

1202.142}

SECRET

Classiften My Mine da,

Declassily on: GaRn ti

DocId: 32177783

Page 7

35

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

told him that the KGB did not handle Oswald after his redefection

Nat the & ide source, Leach one of these officers](#U)

to the United States, and the KGB did not give any tasks to

OSWALD.

They also said that the KGB never gave OSWALD a task to

kill President Kennedy:

The source said that rumors in the west suggesting the

KGB was involved in KENNEDY's assassination were absurd.

According to the source, the KGB would never risk the scandal of

assassinating a major world leader.

DEBRIEFER'S COMMENTS:

Needless to say, we will go back over his knowledge of

OSWALD in an effort to acquire any additional information.

REFERENCES:

1. January 12, 1990, Debriefing.

Tape #2A. Counter #240-341. (5)

DocId: 32177783

Page 8

SECRET

-2-

34

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel.

-DATE: 11-14-2017

I SECRET

SECRET

YURIY NOSENKO

YUriV NOSENKO-spent much of his career in the sixth

Department offthe KGB's Second Chief Directorate (SCD), which

, was

responsible for tourists.

He spent only a short time

career in the First Department, SCD, which was responsible for

American officials at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow.

NOSENKO had excellent family connections because his

father was Minister for the Shipbuilding Industry in the USSR.

That is how NOSENKO managed to become a security officer for the

Soviet delegation which traveled to Geneva, Switzerland, for arms

control talks.

He defected to the United States from this

position.

The SCD

was quite pleased when U.s. intelligence began

to believe NOSENKO was not a bona fide defector.

They were

particularly pleased when he was harshly interrogated by the CIA.

According to the

source, NOSENKO was not sent to the

United States to be a false defector.

The source said that it is

against KGB policy to send an intelligence officer as a false

defector.

Also, the KGB would never have selected him for such a

mission because his father is a high-level Party official.

source doubts that NOSENKO ever saw OSWALD's file.

According to the source, NOSENKO was not higher than a Captain or

Major when he defected to the United states.

The source believes

that NOSENKO may have tried to show himself more valuable to the

CIA than he really was.

At the time of his defection, NOSENKO

was mixing in high circles of Moscow golden youth. The source

believes he defected for material gain.

REFERENCES:

1. January 12, 1990, Debriefing.

Tape #2A. Counter #342-432.(5)

SECRET

DooId: 32177783

Page

37

---

