# docid-32305245

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10375

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2071

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

08/08/1967

5

SUBJECTS :

' LCN, ASSOC, MURDER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NEWS ARTIC

v9.1

DocId: 32305245

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-3207@V, 5-22-641

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

8/8/67

TO:

EROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-523)

_COSA NOSTRA

AR

- CONSPIRACY

00: New York

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau is one copy of a newspaper

article which appeared in the "San Francisco Chronicle" final

home edition of Tuesday, 8/8/67g also I copy enclosed for lly.

Bureau will noe that the enclosed article infers that there is

a connection between the two murders that

recently occurred in

San Francisco, Calif., and "the Syndicate" or "Cosa Nostra".

Chief of Police THOMAS CAHILL, Chief Deputy AL NELDER and THOMAS

FITZPATRICK, Director, Bureau of Special Servicesand Intelligence

Unit, all San Francisco, PD, this date advised Supervisor RAY M.

ANDRESS that investigation conducted on the murders of JOHN KENT

CARTER and WILLIAM E. THOMAS has to date developed no evidence that

they are related. Further, their investigation, as well as con-

tacts with their sources, has developed no information that

is anv connection with either the murders or narcotics activities

in this area with the LeN.

Director FITZPATRICK expressed the

opinion that that portion of the article appearing in the

"Chronicle" pertaining to a connection between

the murders and

the LCN or "the Syndicate" was "a pipe dream" of the reporter

and merely sensationalism for the purpose of selling the newspaper.

DANIEL CASEY, Special Agent in Charge, Federal Narcotics Bureau,

San Francisco, this date advised that he was very perturbed with

the enclosed article.

He noted that his agency has developed

absolutely no information showing any

connection between the LCN

and narcotics traffic in the State of Calif.

He too expressed

3

35089

- Bureau (Registered AM)(Enc.

3

- New York (Info) (Registered AM) encl

92-6054-2071

AJG 10 1967

- San Francisco

(2-92-523)1

(1 - 12

EX 106

CNH: jab

(7)

• › Approved:›

AJU 1

spedial Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

DocId: 32305245 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SE-32-623

CNH: jab

the opinion that this article reflected sensationalism reporting

in its worst form.

Regular contacts with SF-2550-C-TE and SF-2689-C-TE, as well as

other criminal informants of the San Francisco Division, have

developed no connection between the LCN and narcotics traffic in

the State of Calif.

This matter will be closely followed with the above agencies and

should any information be developed that there is any substance

to the enclosed article or evidence that there is a connection

between the CN and narcotics traffic, the Bureau will immediately

be advised.

2

DocId: 32305245

Page

3

---

