# docid-32340997

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK. Assassination System

Date:

6/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10221-10390

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-2ND NR 381

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE: 03/19/1968

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32340997

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

Airtel

3/19/68

] - Mr. Wanna]1

- Mx - DeBuck

- Mr. Nasca

To:

ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HERSIN IS UNCLASSIZIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

SACO, Miami (105-2483)

New York (105-39412)

Newark (105-16824)

Legat, Ottawa (2-4)

Director, FBI (07-4194)

5/3/95 5668 la GAT DAK

Classified by SPb aTA/GeL

eclassily on: OADR 26/8

CULLAT

1S - QUEA

AM • CURA

ReBunirtel 3/4/68 which alerted recipients to the

possibility that (Cuban intelligence has source who is provid-

ing information concorning activities of captioned anti-

Castro ErOup (SAlso rebutel 3/12/68 getting forth iaforuation

fron Legat, Ottawa, concerning alleked plans of Cuban exiles

to take reprisals in Ottawa, Montreal, and Toronto, Canada,

in retaliation for incident which recently took place oft

Virginia coast involving the Cuban vessel "36th of July."

Tals data was furnishe

NYtel 3/13/68 reported information received tron

NY 5938-S which is similar to that provided to the Canadian

authorities. In essence the New Xork data concerned plans

of captioned group and MIRR, another miliant anti-Castro

group, to attack • Cuban ship in a Canadian harbor as retalia-

tion for the incident involving the above-mentioned Cuban

vessel. The informant indicated that the exiles were endeavor-

ing to obtain maps of St. Johns, OttawA_and Montreal.

In view

of the foregoing, it would appear that the Cuban Intelligence

ence cho has possibly penetrated the capstoned group,

Bo/pr the MiRa and 19 in a position to obtain information

concerning the activities of these groups. (X)

97-4474

QUIRR)

-*105-80787 (Cuban Intelligence ActivitiesE(S)u)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for

* Teview)

VEN: Bed (15)

97-4474-

ZAANASTY

DUPLICATE YELLOW 199 MAR 20 1968

NOT RNOORDED

351-10300

ORIGINAL FILED IN

79 MAR 28 1968

262

DocId: 32340997

Page 2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Airtel to SAC, Miami

RO: CUSNAT

97 9€194

Since we know that Cuban intelligence has targeted

the captioned organization, we cannot dismiss the matter

lightly with the thought that it was a chance bit of informa-

it chat to me as

tion obtained by the Cubans. We must assume that they have

a good source who is providing current information. It is

our job to identity this individual.

Accordingly, recipient

offices will carefully review theis files on the members,

syupathizers and associates of the captioned organization and

the MIRk in an effort to pinpoint any individual who might be

providing infornation concerning the activities of these

groups to Cuban intelligence. Recipient offices also review

the files of say other exile organizations and/or other

Individuals who because of their close association with the

captioned group and MIRR would be in a position to obtain

information concerning their activities as well as the files

of informants, confidential sources and sources of infornation

who are providing iaforuation concerning these organisations

to see 11 any of these individuals night be providing infor-

mation to Cuban intelligence - S

If the afore-mentioned review reveals that an

individul is suspected of such activity, the Bureau should

be promptly advised and a separate investigation initiated. befU

When the above-mentioned reviews have been completed

recipient offices, except Ottawa, will furnish their comments,

observations and recommendations as to what further steps can

pe takes in an ottore to Pinpoint individuals who say be

furnishing intornation to Cuban intelligences Handle promptly

and keep Bureau currently apprised of pertinent developments.

Ottawa expeditiously furnish results of BCHP

interview

of the Cuban Ambassador so that full details

concerning this natter will be available. (S)

139032)

SECRETI

97-4474-2010 NR381

551-10389

DocId: 32340997 Page 3

---

