# docid-32576628

## Page 1

FD-268 (Per. 3-1-58)

*=

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN DIEGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA CESA NOSTRA, aka.

DATE

5/12/65

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/1/65-5/10/65

REPORT MADE BY

_T. HYRUM CALLISTER

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETERRING - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

Vr

REFERENCE:

at New

Report of SA LEONARD H. MC COY, dated 8/21/54,

York;

Bureau airtel to New York, dated 4/16/65.

New York airtel to Bureau, dated 4/28/55.

-P-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum

ceflecting characterization of informants.

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES AND SAN FRANCISCO (INFORMATION)

Francisco and Los

Information copies are being furnished San

Angeles since LN activities in these

offices overlap.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARG:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

REGISTERED

92-6054-1071

REC- 34

Bureau (92-6054) (ines 2)

Angeles (92-1112)

2

1 - San Francisco (92-593) (Info)

(REGISTERED)

2 - San-Diego (92-229)

15 MAY 14 1955

AGENCY

REQUEST RECOM

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

CC. 106. Crimmat Divisions-

HOW FHD..

et..

Recion. Room 2

11C/

NOTATIONS

STAT. SECT.,,

10--70034-1

HH 45839 DocId:32576628 Page 1

---

## Page 2

5. -.

SD 92-229

SAN DIEGO

Will continue efforts to develop information

leadership and other activities

of the

rAlIF

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

SD T-1 is LA 4448-C-TE

SD T-2 IS SD 1111-PC

SD I-3 1s MI 623-C-TE

SD T-4 is JOEL TAYLOR, Investigator, California

Department of Criminal Investigation and

Identification, San Diego, who furnished infor-

mation

to SA H. EDGAR STRAHI.

SD T-5 is Mrs. ROBERT KATAN, 508 Tyrone Street,

El Cajon, California, who furnished information

to SA T. HYRUM CALLISTER.

ADMINISTRATIVE

On March 5, 1965, the San Francisco Office advised

that SF 2080-PC had reported that in April, 1963 ANGEL.

MAR-NO, San Jose member of the La Cosa, Nostra, and his

Of MARIA GAVIN.

It should be noted that FRANK BOMPENSIERO

is residing with MARIA GAVIN, who is the former wife of

GIROLOMO ADAMO, deceased, brother of JOSE ADAMO.

San Francisco instructed that this information

should not be set out in a report at this time.

-B* -

COVER PAGE

NW 45839 DooId: 32576628

Page 2

---

