# docid-32289484

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10201-10260

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-539

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEGAT, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/27/1962

2

LST, ASSOC, BKG, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/05/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289484 Page 2

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hobe):

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-101-01

UNITED STATES GOY

NMENT

Memorandum

TO

:Director, FBI (92-2781)

CHU FROM : Legat, Mex100 (92-18) (P)

DATE: 4-27-62

SUBJECT:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka,

Regular contact has been maintained with

FLORENCIO VIVAS, Agent, Mexican Immigration service.

who

has been attempting to locate NORBERTO FUENTES GARCIA,

who was last known to have the address Calle San Juan de Letran,13,

but no information has been developed by VIVAS as to the

possible whereabouts of FUENTES.

VIVAS, when last contactec

on 4-16-62, advised that he was continuing efforts to

attempt to locate FUENTES and that a review of the Immigration

file on FUENTES reflects that in November and December,

1960, FUENTES claimed to be the Caribbean representative

of the webster outdoor Advertising company or Miami,

Florida, and that FUENTES wascbornn1-8-i2 at Manzanillo,

Cuba.

For the information of the Miami Office, the

subject of this case, according to the Tampa office, has

been described publicly in tampa newspapers as a "king pin""

in the Bolita racket.

A reliable source of the Tampa

Office advised on 7-18-61 that the subject had been in

communication with NORBERTO FUENTES GARCIA and the Tampa

Office is interested in establishing the identity of

FUENTES along with any information establishing his

connection, with any, with the subject.

LEADS

MIAVI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

will contact the webster Outdoor Advertising Compan

to determine if NOR

FUENTES GARCIA WaS, in Iad

Caribbean reguese

in November and December, 1960

52

Bureau

(1 - I1a1soR

section)

92-2787-534

MAY & 1962

4

2 - Mami)

(- Tampa,

1 - Mexico City" Patel.

EX-ILA

JBG : kg

(7)

O MAY 8

1962

2 copies Stacked

557-62

DocId: 32289484

Page 3

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2TU) Robey?

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 92-18

as alleged by FUENIES. If so, employed, will obtain all

pertinent background data concerning him and any

information as to his present whereabouts.

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

AT MEXICO, D.F.

will continue to maintain contact with FLORENCIA

VIVAS, agent of the Mexican Immigration Service, for any.

information concerning the present whereabouts of FUENTES.

=2-

801-10980

DocId: 32289484 Page 4

---

