# docid-32308117

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-668

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HILL, RALPH R.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

03/26/1962

'PAGES:

35

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT, GAMBLING ACT, POLIT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32308117 Page 1

466

---

## Page 2

Report F ri

TD-79 (5-12-56)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

"CHANGED"

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka.

T. Isci

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

МАк 26.1962

12/17/61-3/20/62

REPORT MADE BY

RALPH R. HILL

CHARACTER OF CASE

• AR

TYPED BY

cmb

S

The title is being marked "Changed" to include an additional alias

utilized by GIANCANA while at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach,

Florida, In March, 1962. (U)

REFERENCE: Report of SA RALPH R. JILL dated 1/3/62 at chicago. (U)

ENCLOSURE: TO BuRGAN:

LEADS

INfORMANTS

All investigative leads in this matter have been set forth

expeditiously by those offices.

being handle

for other offices by appropriate communication as INFORMATION CONTAINED

LAS VEGAS AND NEWARK

(Information)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE4•23 -34 BY5P5RJ6/

Information copies are being submitted to those offices

designated in view of matters of interest contained herein in their

respective divisions.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Bureau.

1

1(92-3171) (ENT)

Las Vegas (92-308) (Info)

-

Miami (92-170)

-

Newark (Info)

- New York (92-793)

3

- Chicago (92-349)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

921-3171-668

10 MAR 29 1962

PEG. 9

MCT - 45

S7-10%

57 APR 5

1962

SONER

PROPERTY OF FBI.—-This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned

1-1541

NW 45792 DocId: 32308117 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Infornant

CG F-1

INFORMANTS

Identity

CG 6443-C

Date and Agent

Contacting

Various Dates, 1-3/62,

SAS JOSEPH G.

SHEA and

WM. A. MEINCKE

OTHER 4

CG T-15

CG T-41

CG T-42

CE T-48

CG

1-48'

CG

T-58

CG

I -59

CG T-60

CG T-61

CG

T=62

CG T-63

JOHN TEETER, NYC

(requested)

CG 6486-0*

CG

6486-0%

CG 6486-C*

CG

6486-C*

CG

6509-C

PCI

Milwaukee Division

IM 799-C*

SID LEVENSON, Asst

Mgr, Fontainebleau Hotel,

Miami

Beach,

Fla. (reg)

Dun and Bradstreet

PCI

Various dates, 12/61-2/62

• 80

2/37/62, SAI.G. SHEA

SA CLARK E, LOVRIEM

3/19/62

•3/18/62, SA R.R. HIL

and

W.G. DONOVAN

1/23/62,

WM.

SAs HILL and

F. ROEMER

-I-*

COVER PAGE

NW 45792 DocId: 32308117 Page 3

---

## Page 4

+1A4

FD-302 (Rev. 1-25-60)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Date -

February 2,

1962

CG T. 63 advised as follows:

He has been associated with Italian-American

civic organizations for many years.

Included among

• these

are the Fellow American Union, the Sons of Italy and the

Italian Welfare League.

He was born and raised in the

Taylor-Halsted Street area'in Chicago and through the

years, advanced himself to the point where he eventually

became a figure of political prominence in Denocratic

As & result, he is in a position to be

acquainted with the influence utilized by individuals

such as SAMUEL GIANCANA and MURRAY HUMPHREYS and before

these their predecessors.

As an example, he pointed

out that he is acquainted with a situation whereby the

late JAKE GUZIK presented a Democratic First Ward

Alderman with $10,000.00 in cash many years ago

requesting no favors in return but intimating that certain

favors would be expected.

As a result, the money was

not

accepted by this Alderman, according to him, but was

turned back to GUZIK®

He stated that many prominent and

respectable Italian American business add professional

men of the Chicago area are concerned over the fact that

notorious hoodlums of Italian-American ancestry have

caused a besmirching of the reputations of respectable

Italian Americans.

The position of the "hoodlum" of

Italian extraction

has been promulgated by politicians

who have remained in their respective Wards such as

Chicago's lst, 20th and 28th Wards, where the neighborhoods

have changed to the extent where persons of Italian

extraction are no longer in the majority /v)

92-348

92-349

On

by

1/23/62 a Chicago, Illinois

SAS WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR. and

RALPH R. HILL/DAR

_ File #

_Dato dictated

1/29/62

NW 45792 DocId: 32308117 Page 4

---

