# docid-32977067

## Page 1

D

Date :

06/25/98

Page

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

NSC

145-10001-10181

92

Released under the John

. Kennedy

assassination Records

collection set of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

--

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM

: GORDON CHASE

TO

: MCGEORGE BUNDY

TITLE : MEMORANDUM

DATE : 03/02/65

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : CARIBBEAN AND OTHER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/25/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

EYRES CONCURRENOZ OF

DATE:

- MAR

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 54214

DocId:32977067

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OP SE

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

• March 2, 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. BUNDY

SUBJEGT: Caribbean and Other

6(4)

Here are a few items which came up while you were away and which you may

want to know about.

14.

1. BG - Greenwood's New Look - Attached at Tab l is a cable from BG reporting

on Greenwood's recent trip to BG. It is a pleasant thing to read in that it tells

V about Greenwood's growing disenchantment with Cheddi and growing admiration

for Burnahm. Even divided by half, it sounds good.

16

2.

P - An order to help 3Gaget rid of its

Doriteneck which is causing serious difficulties for Burnham, we are

Done mode

of working out a deal whereby BC can sell some rice to Latin America? It 1s

going to cost us $200, 000 to break tho bottleneck - 1, c., to pay the difference

between what BG has gotten from Cuba in the past and what Latin America

willing to par now.

Needless to say, this is alli quite cover A

3. Cecil King - As of possible interest, attached at Tab 2 is a cable reporting

V Del Carlson's conversation with Cecil King. King mentions a talk with Bill

Tyler and you; he also makes a strong pitch in favor of a PPP/ PNC coalition.

4 Secretary Rusk and Policy - The Secretary recently told John Crimmins

/ that he wants no new initiatives on Cuba policy for the time being. Apparently,

he wants to keep the temperature low while we are sorting out our Vietnam

problem.

5. Cuban Deals with Spain and Morocco - Cuba recently concluded long-term

e sugar agreements with Spain and Morocco. The Spanish are willing to buy sugar

at a higher price than the Russians are willing to pay (so they can sell ships),

and this especially bugs us. Some details on these two deals are at Tab 3.

likely to be faced with a full. Cuba menu at your

ext Special Group mecting. First, State will probably want to cut oft Artime

vater and stay as far away as possible from any internal Cuban dissidents, CLA

nay feel ditterently.

Second

there may be some discussion of whether or not

OP:SE

1W 54214 DocId:32977067 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TOP

SEC

Mr. Bundy

- 2-

March 2, 1965

15 dosivable to maintain the CLA

mary capability which is

n the shelf. CIA will probably say "no" (lish or out bai) and State

probably say "yes" (with world scene hotting up,

i may be good to haventhi

capability in ceserve).

Third, State,

CiA, and DOD may ask permission to

Solfer some low-risk assistance to the new exile stoups

am against but thus far I seem to be alone.

My memo to John Crimmins or

the subjoct is attached at Tab 4

7. Communications Security Survey - The BOB study group has finished with

the Ranch and has completed about 2/3 of the Washington portion of its work.

The balance should go fairly quickly in view of the fact that we recently blasted

loose the information which the group needed on the telephone system at the

" White House and EOB. The group will probably not examine the emergency

locations. There is not much there that they can usefully do and it does not

seem worth the time and effort to override Ted Clifton's objections; besides,

this less urgent task can be done at some future date.

" The group is running behind schedule (report due on March 1). They asked for

another month, and I gave it to them; I'm fairly confident they will meet the

new deadline.

6C

Gordon Chase

LOP SE

EXES PHLY

HH 54214.DooId: 32977067 Page

3

---

