# docid-32337602

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90137-10368

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-103157-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE :

DATE :

09/28/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

V9.1

DocId: 32337602

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kenne

Assassination Records Coltention Act of

1992 117 US, 21

Hotel.

L-MIQISOY

1 - Dunn

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSISGADON AND/OR,

RELEASE DE CA INIUSMATION

PILOPIES

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Date:

September 28, 1961

KP 5-12-98

To?

ALVAREZ.

DATE6: 146-7

TO NSCA RE REQUEST DATED

DUFILE

Central Intelligence Agency

62-1172907

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

Froma

Deputy Director, lone ou

"By

John Edgar Hoover, Director

subjecte

(FIRST NAME UNKNOWN) ALVAREZ(S)

IVANIAL SECURITY - GUBA

REG: 52

10%-

103157-1

deference is made to your letter dated septenber 20,

1961, your reference ESCI

3/707,221, entitled Alvarez (fru)s

Major Manuel Pineiro.

It is requested

that we be advised as to whether the

source of the date regarding the subject is in the United Stotes

at the present time.

If so, it is requested that we be

alvised as to whether you would make him available for

interview by this Bureau.

If he received his infornation

from another source, we would appreciate being advised as

to the identity of this other source and whether he would

be quilable for interview by this Bureau.

2 - Miami (Enc. 2)

ALI. IRAC

9503 Rend/sel

8/88

Classien

EXCEPE MEHE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

£11,326

8295 ПЕК)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

) Tele. Room

Ingram

Gandy

to determine

8 SEP 2 9

(7)

CLASSICED BY 5668

COMM • EBI

NOTE:

DELL SO (JEK)

548/K52

CIA letter 9/20/61 indicates that according to infor

nation dated 6/20/0l a fairly reliable source uno is an employe.

of the Cuban

a string of orber shopsh len that subject, a barber uho cun 3)

ore 'of leading Cuban G-2 officials:

works directly for Llajor Pinetrols

'Letter indicates that the

Ca source was unable to furnish any more details lack of ll

identifying data regarding subject dictates that we should attempt

-to interview source or his original source especially in view of

common name of subject residing in area where there are large

thumber of individuals of latin-American origin.

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ISE®

829 190R

DocId: 32337602 Page 2

---

