# docid-32306594

## Page 1

celeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10290-10234

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/28/1961

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, SELLING, DONATED EQUIPMENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306594

Page 1

415

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

DATE: '11-14-2017

Collectin

1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

FEDERA CUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNCATIONS SECTION

FEB 2 8 196

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

TELETYPE

Mr. Evans hit,

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

URGENT

12-28-61

1-44 PM EST

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SACS, CHICAGO 192-349/

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

AND PITTSBURGH

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 192-170/

2 P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA., AR. REFERENCE CHICAGO TEL TO

Stafforo

DIRECTOR DATED TWO EIGHTEEN SIXTY ONE AND BU AIRTEL TO

CHICAGO DATED TWO IWENTY THREE, SIXTY ONE. MM SIX SIX

FIVE DASH C, ON FEBRUARY TEN, LAST, ADVISED HE WAS TOLD ONE

HAROLD MC CLINTOCK, AGE IN THIRTIES, FROM CHICAGO, ILL.,

WAS VISITING CHARLES DELMONICO RECENTLY IN MIAMI. DELMONICO

IS THE SON OF CHARLES TOURINE, TOP HOODLUM IN MIAMI

DIVISION. INFORMANT UNDERSTOOD MC CLINTOCK IS IN SOME KIND

OF A RACKET WHERE HE SELLS BIG MACHINERY WHICH HE GETS FROM

CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS. IT IS THE INFORMANT-S UNDERSTANDING

THẬT SOME FIRMS DONATE HEAVY EQUIPMENT TO CHARITABLE

ORGANIZATIONS AFTER DEDUCTING THE EQUIPMENT AT THE HIGH

APPRAISAL VALUE AND A CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION THEN SELLS IT

TO SECURE CASH FOR THEIR ORGANZATIONE IE WAS INFORM/ /7L =136

MC CLINTÖCK GETS COMMISSION ON THE SALES

BUT IN SOME MANNER 1961

MAKES A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF MONEY OTHERWISE ON THE

END PAGE ONE

CALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

3MAR MAR 101968 HEREIN iS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 5-24- B4

_ BY SPRS

DocId: 32306594

Page 2

---

