# docid-32340936

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10329

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1423-15

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, WMFO

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/15/1958

1

IID, REPRESENTATIVE, ISRAELI GOVERNMENT

CONTROLLED ORGANIZATION, IMPORT ARMS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/02/1996

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32340936

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

"Released under the

DATE: 11-14≤2017

Tom EKernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

olson

Boardman

Belmont

lohr

Jease

Parsons

Rosen

l'amm

Trotter

Clayton

'ele. Room

jolloman -

tandy

SECRE

SAC, Wabhington Field (105-26269)

10-15-58

Director, FBI (2-1423)

I. IRVING DAVIDSON, aka

IS - ISRAEL

11-5-94

Classified ly sp8 MAd KSR

Declassify on

MADR

Reurlet 9-30-58 and rerep SA Andrew J. Shannon

same date.

Inasmuch as subject is registered with Registration

Section, Department of Justice, as representative of Israeli

Government-controlled organization, further investigation in

this matter does not appear varranted.

In the event you

receive information indicating subject is operating outside

the scope of his registration or is engaged in intelligence

activittes, advise Bureau and reinstitute on investigation.

Based on information set forth in referenced communication;

this matter should be closed in your office.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668

ALL INFOREATIOR CONTAIN

EEM: eLEGAASSIFY ON: 25X.

EXSCOT WHERE SH0W8

OTHERGISE

NOTE: Subject self-employed in general public relations work,

Washington, D. C.

He is registered with Department of Justice

as representative of Republic of Nicaragua and Israeli military

industries.

Subject registered to import arms, ammunition ana

mpLements of war from Israel to Arly

1958, subject

was in contact with the Israeli Embassy let which time n

discussed in general terms a matter in which subiect and the

Israelt Military Attache had a mutual terest He also

requested Ithe Israell Military Attachel to furnish the detaile

of aspeech to be made lby the Military Attache to an unidentifie.

individual.

no one in a to a nue gaston is deemed a

EX. - 132

MAILBO A

OCT 1 0 1958

COMM-FBI

2-142-15

87 OCT 16 1958

and Airina: 01

OCT 2 0 1958

SECRET

s0/2pen

Estinyon

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32340936

Page 2

---

