# docid-32322681

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10379-10472

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-4326

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 04/20/1999

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/23/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322681

479

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

(01/26/1998)

375

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

ROUTINE

Date: 04/20/1999

To: Miami

Attn: Patrick J. McCormick

From: Director's Office

JFK Task Force,

Room 11144

Contact:

Latricia D. Grace,

Ext. 0593

Approved By: Keeley Carol INNON

Drafted By: Grace Latricia slay

Case ID #: 62C-HQ-1029205

Title: ASSASSINATION MATERIAL DISCLOSURE ACT

Synopsis:

JFK Task Force returning file(s) to Miami.

Details: Enclosed for Miami are the following file(s) :

MM 92-503-Sub I Volumes 3 & 4

The originals removed from these files and replaced

with duplicate copies of the original were accessioned to the

National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) pursuant to

the JFK Records Collection Act of 1992.

Provision of the JFK Act

allowed for certain information to be postponed from public

release until the year 2017; therefore, the pages have NOT

necessarily been released for public review in their entirety.

Under the JFK Act, originals to all material deemed

assassination records must be accessioned to NARA regardless of

whether the material is open in full or released with information

postponed. Therefore, any documents or pages from FBI files

accessioned to NARA pursuant to the JFK Act are no longer

considered the possession of the FBI. The duplicate pages have

the

been inserted strictly for research purposes.

The copies contained within the previously mentioned

file(s) do not necessarily show the most up-to-date

classification.

cc 1-JFK Field Office File Folder, Room 11144

(25-79-1829205-4326

DocId: 32322681

Page 2

---

