# docid-32293614

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 U5C 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10211-10390

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1156

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO :

BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/01/1964

1

ABR, ASSOC, LCN, MEETING, CEREMONY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293614

Page 1

64

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

sir. Belmont6ll/b18

FROM

: C. A. Evans

Eas

"e-:

Foison -

Belmont

Casper —

Callahan -

DATE: June 1, 1964

Evans

puts on

Sullivan -

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

SUBJECT: ANGELO BRUNO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

The Doe

A Philadelphia top echelon criminal informant,

who lis.

in close contact with Angelo Bruno and other racket figures in

Philadelphia,

has advised that a meeting of the Philadelphia

"family" of La Cosa Nostra will be held at a motel in Camden

County, New Jersey, on June 15, 1964. At this meeting "new rules"A

of the organization will be made known and possibly six new

members will be "made" (admitted

to membership). Informant,

an admitted member of La Cosa Nostra and who has furnished

valuable intelligence information concerning the leaders and

members of the Philadelphia "family", has been invited to this

meeting and plans to attend.

Informant has agreed to wear a recording device while

attending this meeting in an effort to record the induction

ceremony of La Cosa Nostra members and other events. He is

fully cognizant of the potential dangers involved.

Philadelphia has requested Bureau authority to equip

informant with a recorder to record this meeting.

This recorde,

will be secreted on the informant's body in such

a way as to

afford all possible security.

No open surveillances will bes

conducted in the vicinity of this meeting in order to insure

informant's safety.

the event i su ca

This is the first opportunity we have had to recora

the events which occur at a La Cosa Nostra new-member initiation

'If successfully carried out the results should be

highly significant.

ACTION:

EX 103

REC- 31

i did all!

92-2770 1156

1 JUN 4 1964

It is recommended Philadelphia be authorized to eduip

If you agree, Philadelphia will bè issued specific

instructions along this line to insure that complete security is

taken til this operation

and all possible precautionary steps are

provide for informant's safety.

This activity will be

coordinated with; the Laboratory.

Appropriate airtel"

Enc. te

1-6%.

attached.k.on

KAL: din!

vison UM,

28A(6)

1964

5 8 JUN 11 1964

FILED

UNRECONDED COPY

DocId: 32293614

Page 2

---

