# docid-32315544

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10342-10262

RECORD SERIES:

DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-228-825

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FITZPATRICK

DE

DATE: 04/25/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315544

Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: - 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GOVERN ENT

MEMORANDUM

TO:

SAC, DETROIT (137-2379)

FROM:

SA ROBBET N. FITZPATRICK /X/ CI

SUBJECT: DE 87S-C-TE

Dates of contacti

Date: 4/25/63

/ / SI

P/ PCI / / PSI

4/18/63

Titles and File Nos. on which contacted

STANLEY EDVARD FREEMAN, aka, et al,

TFIS 15-8201 (R.F. O'Neil)

EUGENE ELISWORTH AYOTTE, aka, et al, NBA

MAIL FRAUD - CONSPIRACY

49-1253 (Keehan)

THOMAS VIOLA, aka, et al, UFAC -

88-317 (Transeth)

MURDER, HARBORING

JOSEPH "SCARFACE JOE" BOMMARITO, aka, AR 92-215 (Fatzpatrick)

PETER LICAVOLT, aKa, AR

92-217

(Montefiore

JOSEPH. ZERILI,

aka,

AR

92-218

MICHAEL SANTO POLIZZI, aKa, AR

92-212

(Churchill)

(Bickford)

ANTHONY "TONY" GIACALONE

aka, AR

92-228

(Lunt)

MATHEW "MIKE" RUBINO, aka, AR

92-229

(Montefiore)

MAX BEN STERIT,

akag

92-230

JOHN "PAPA FON" PRIZIOLA, aKa, AR

92-231

(Iseman)

(Bickford)

SAM FINAZZO, aka, AR

92-232

(Heystek)

JOSEPH "LONG FOE" BOMMARITO, aka, AR

92-429

(Iseman)

ARTHUR CAPLAN, aRa, AR

92-436

(Iseman)

VITO "BILLY"' GIACALONE, aka, AR

92-438

(Shelburne)

DAVEY FELDMAN,

alra, AR,

92 - 439

(Shirley)

ANTHONY "BLACK TONY" TERAMINE, aka, AR

92-442

(Phillips)

92 - 490

(Shirley

DOMINIC

AR

92-448

(Arnett)

ANTHONY

"TONY" TOCCO,

aka,

92-486

(Shirley

CHARLES "CHICKIE" SHERMAN,

aka, AR

92-557

(Iseman

MICHAEL DAN BRUNO,

ake, AR

92-558

(Phillips)

ANTHONY "TONY LONG" CIMINI, ala, AR

92=550

(Churchill)

PHIL PETERS, ake, - AR

92-551

(Transeth)

JOHN SERRA,

akà,

AR

92-562

(Shirley)

ANTHONY "TONY" ZERILLI, aka, AR

92-558

(Churchill)

JACKIE TOCCO, aka: AR

92-574

(Shirley)

PETER VITALE, alTa, AR

92-629

(Arnett)

Rating

EXCELLENT

RNT : BJM

(54)

Coverage

SAME

92-228-

875

Searched

Indexed

Serialize me

FBI - Detroit

4/25/63

LUNT

DocId: 32315544 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

• DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 1372879

Informant advised that he was contacted the previous

Sunday night by STANLEY EDWARD FREEMAN.

FREEMAN is presently

out on Federal Court Bond, which was put up by Informant, on a

meat hijacking case.

Informant stated that FREEMAN told him

that he had just that night hijecked a tractor and trailer loaded

with a large amount of metals, consisting of 90% nickel and

10% tin.

Informant advised that FREEMAN stole this entire load

from the lot of some company named Schwarz Co. on W. Fort St.

He said that FREEMAN claimed that the Schwarz Co. driver wouldn't

know the load was taken until at last the following Monday

afternoon.

Informant advised that FREEMAN had no "out" for a

load of nickel and he told FREEMAN emphatically that he

(Informant) had no

"out" for it either.

Informant said that after a lot of arguing with

FREEMAN he was able

to convince FREEMAN that "swinging" with

this load of nickel was very foolish indeed. Informant added

that FREEMAN, who had already "spotted" the load, ie,

hid it

out, returned to it and drove the whole load back into its

original parking spot on the Schwarz lot.

Informant advised that FREEMAN told him that he had been

given a real good

"score" on AL VARGA's home in Allen Park, Mich.

He said that apparently FREEMAN's "finger-man" had told FREEMAN

exactly where VARGA keeps his money hidden in his home.

•In-

formant revealed that AL VARGA lives at 7144 Larme, Allen Park,

Mich.

He added that FREEMAN has asked him to "case" VARGA's

home for him. Informant stated that FREEMAN's initial

l concern

was whether or not AL VARGA was "a syndicate guy" and

Informant assured FREEMAN that VARGA was not. Informant advised

also that AL VARGA had contacted him earlier in the week and

VARGA wants to go "in partners" in the numbers with Informant,

which Informant agreed to do.

Informant advised that SHAWNA, the stripper at the Book

Bar on Michigan Avenue who is "CANDY" DAVIDSON's girl friend,

told him that "CANDY" is going into business as a used car Sales-

man in Grand Rapids, Mich

Informant advised that he intends

to visit DAVIDSON this coming weekend at the Herkimer Hotel,

Grand Rapids, where "CANDY" is living. He stated that "CANDY"

left Detroit, where he was living at the Imperial Hotel, on

orders from his parole officer.

Informant stated that "CANDY"

DAVIDSON has a reputation as

being a "real rough little guy".

He said that he knew "CANDY" in Chicago many years ago and he

commented that "CANDY" has had

"six partners shot out from under

him". Informant advised that "CANDY" is not very big in stature

-3-

DocId: 32315544

Page 3

---

## Page 4

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

. DATE: • 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

but at one time, when he was first in San Quentin Prison;

"CANDY" asked to meet the heavyweight boxing champion of the

prison. Informant said that a match was arranged in the gym

and "CANDY" beat the heavyweight champion senseless.

He re

vealed that "CANDY" always wanted to make his position as

"champ" known

early, whether it was prison or out.

Informant

commented that the time since "CANDY's" recent release from

Jackson State Prison is the longest in CANDY'S life-time that

he has not been "on the lam"

Informant advised that he was in company with

"Chickie" SHERMAN at the Imperial Hotel that day. He said'

that "CHICKIE" asked him

to run the restaurant in the Imperial

Hotel.

He commented

that "CHICKIE" offered it to him "for

nothing"

Informant revealed that a Mr. and Mrs. ROSEN have

the lease on the bar and restaurant in the hotel

and he is

going to get together with them about taking over the

restaurant tomorrow.

Informant advised that "CHICKIE" men

tioned to him that he had recently bought a restaurant for some

guy, whose identity "CHiCKIE" did not reveal, and that 'it'is

Informant's opinion that "CHICKIE" intends to use this

restaurant as a "front" for one of his "horse book" joints.

Informant advised that "CHICKIE" was in company

with "TARZAN' CHRISTOPHERSKI and CHARLEY SAM.

informate avaned

He revealed that

CHARLEY SAM, TOMMY BOOTH and another individual who usually

hangs around with CHUCK MORGAN, have taken over the Flame Show

Bar on John R. St., Detroit, from MORRIE WASSERNAN'S widow and

they are going to have their Grand Opening on Friday night,

April 19, 1963.

Informant said that he believed that JOHNNY

THOMAS is behind this

whole deal as

THOMAS and TOMMY BOOTH

have been "real thick" recently and were downtown together

today closing some kind of deal.

Informart added that "CHICKIE"

SHERMAN told him that

he and DAVEY EDWARDS had received Federal

Grand Jury subpoenas on "CHICKIE's" income tax case and they

had to

be in the Federal Building Monday morning, 4/22/63

Informant advised that he was talking to LOUIE LA HOOD

that day at the Imperial Hotel. He stated that LA HOOD iS

promoting a dance in

honor of Father CORNELIUS'-return to our Lady

of Help Church to be held at Cobo Hall soon and that La HoOD

bragged

that he is having DANNY THOMAS and Count BASIE as

entertainers.

Informant advised that LaHOod,

who is awaiting

trial in USDC, Detroit, on 6/11/63, charged with Härboring Top

Ten Fugitive TOMMY VIOLA, told him that if he can get $5,000.00

DocId: 32315544 Page 4

---

## Page 5

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

•DATE: • 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

together from this dance he can "square the beef" on the VIOLA

case.

Informant added that LaHOOD, whom he refers to as a

"stone idiot", was serious in his statements to this effect

around the group in the Imperial Hotel, however, everybody

present treated LaHOOD's statement as a joke.

Informant furnished SA FITZPATRICK with two current

"green sheets"

It is

noted that they are titled "Green Sheet

PETE LICAVOLI controls this operation and that LICAVOLI has

employed "Crippled Dominic" BUFFA to handle the distribution

of "Green Sheets"

Iniormant stated that "Crippled Dominic"

BUFFA passes out these "green sheets between 8 p.m. and 9 p.m.

each Thursday night, at least in time so that they can be "on

the streets" by Friday each week.

Informant advised that he had been in company with

FREDDIE KRUSE,

the bondsman, the previous day. He stated that

KRUSE told him that DANNY COSENTINO has opened up his handbook

again and that TONY GIACALONE is behind COSENTINO's

• "horse

action".

Informant advised that apparently FREDDIE KRUSE has

changed

his mind about the eventual outcome of the Palm

Furniture Bankruptcy case as KRUSE mentioned that MIKE RUBINO

and SAMMY GIORDANO will "walk away from the case" and that

JOHNNY AYOTTE will "ride the beef to jail".

Informant advised

that RUBINO is "all through" if he goes to jail.

He commented

that RUBINO would have to

"nail it on the wall and forget about

it"

Informant was of the opinion that the Government would

"run

Mike to the grave" once he "fell" on the Palm case.

Informant advised that recently he spent the after-

noon with a local bookie named JACK LOWE. He said that JACK LOWE

is called

"Jock" by most of his friends and that"JOCK" LOWE

lives at 3626 Beaconsfield and is a guy in his middle 40's.

He

mentioned that LOWE was arrested in February, 1963, in company

with ONFRE "HUMPHREY"' CRAPROTTA in a "horse book" which they

operated at 6259 Holcomb St.,

Detroit.

Informant revealed

that DANNY COSENTINO owned the four-family flat at 6259 Holcomb

and that the same day the police also arrested SAM RUFFINO, Jr.

and RUFFINO's girl friend, PAT DI FATTA, who were running a numbers

office at the same address on Holcomb St. as "JOCK" and

"'HUMPHREY"

Informant advised that he and "JOCK" stopped to

See JOEY ALLEVATO at ALLEVATO's new bar-by restaurant at

Barham and Mack Aves. across the street from PETE LICAVOLI'S

005.

DocId:32315544

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

"DATE: • 11-14-2017.

DE 137-2879

Apache Realty.

Informant stated that ALLEVATO told him that

he has $5,000.00 tied up in his restaurant.

He said that

ALLEVATO sells the Racing Form and also "does alittle booking"

out of his restaurant.

Informant revealed that ALLEVATO

commented that he bought the place from an individual named

ART (LNU).

Informant advised that MIKE BRUNO and his brother.

have been operating a blind pig and after hours joint at the

Kevin House

Hotel, 1460 Farmer St.,

Detroit.

Informant advised that last Tuesday, 4/16/63, PETE

LICAVOLI'S Son, MIKE LICAVOLI, left Detroit and traveled to

Chicago, Ill. where he intends to spend some time at the local

Chicago race track, Sportsman's Park.

Informant commented that

his own son has become a good friend of LICAVOLI's other son,

TEDDY LICAVOLI, and they have been recently going to the Toledo

Race Track:

Informant revealed that several days ago the Irwin

Bar, Detroit, was burglarazed

and the bar's safe was taken

away. Informant revealed that two brothers pulled this "score"

and Informant identified them as being the two grandsons of JOHN

CAROLL, who owns the John S. Caroll Real Estate Co. at 13243

Harper

Ave., Detroit,

telephone 371-7474.

"Informant said that

JOE VALENTI

works for JOHN Caroll Realty. (It is noted that

NICK DITTA, when out of state, has furnished the identity of

his employer as being the John Caroll Realty Co.)

Informant

advised that CAROLi's two grandsons, one of whom is named

JACK (LNU) and who works in the real estate office, are "Kinda

nuts" and they have "got to get caught" on this "score".

formant revealed that the two brothers stole the safe and later,

after

"cracking" it, they got its contents of $800.00. He

said that the

next day an article appeared in the

Detroit news.

papers refleting that the thieves who "took off" the Irwin Bar

got $2,000.00 in the safe and also an unknown quantity of

whiskey.

Informant added that this made the two brothers "hot"

as they did not take any whiskey and they only got $800.00.

Informant revealed that the two brothers went back

to the -Irwin

Bar and grabbed the owner and in "no uncertain terms" told him

that anything over $800.00 that he got back from his insurance

company was going to be split 50-50 with them.

Informant advised that he was recently with JOE

LAUDICINI at the olverine Hotel.

He stated that LAUDICINI, during

the course of conversation, mentioned that he has Inspector PAUL

_6=

DocId: 32315544

Page 6

---

## Page 7

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

• DATE:- 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

SHERIDAN of the First Precinct on his payroll. Informant men-

tioned that LAUDICINI operated a fairly large "phone action"

handbook from his flower shop in the Wolverine Hotel but that

LAUDICINI is presently complaining that his former partner,

an Italian guy named PAUL (LNU) "beat" him out of about

$70,000.00 and put LAUDICINI out of business.

Informant re-

marked that LAUDICINI showed him a "bum check" which LAUDICINI

Informant advised that one of the biggest "fences" in

Detroit is JAKE: KRANTZ, whO owns and operates the Admiral

Plumbing and Heating

.Co., 2248 Gratiot Ave., telephone LO 7-0620.

nickel and all

"Hot"

cigarettes..

He said'tit KRANTZ will handle stolen merchandise

in big lots, up to a trailer load, and that KRANTZ confided in

him that he has an "out" for stolen stuff in Chicago..

Informant

disclosed that he took an individual to KRANTZ the previous day

and KRANTZ bought a whole case of bronze faucets which this

individual had stolen off the back of some truck.

Informant advised that he was recently in company

with MILT, GOLD, who is the attorney for PETE LICAVOLI's brother,

DOMINIC LICAVOLI, and also for the American-Italian Delegates

Club (AID). Informant said that GOLD told him that DOMINIC

LICAVOLI doesn't make a move without his brother, Pete's, oK.

He stated that GOLD also mentioned to him that he represents

RANDOLPH MACKEY, a Negro numbers operator in Detroit, and that

MACKEY owes him $10,000.00.

Informant advised that GOLD con-:

versed with him at length about "the outfit" and of the "con»

nections" that "the outfit" had in the Detroit Police Dept.

Informant stated 'that he was astounded when GOLD confided to

him that Inspector GENE GEIBIG and Inspector JOHN O"NEILL of

further that GOLD told him that Gunn Dairies had a seven year

contract with Home Juice Co, to deliver their wholesale pro

ducts however, recently BILLY GIACALONE summarily terminated

this contract.

Informant stated that MILT GOLD gave him the

impression that JOHN FLORINO was extremely upset about the Gunn

Dairy contract with Home Juice being broken but that FLORINO

= 7-

DocId: 32315544

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

-DATE: - 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

would never think of suing Home Juice for breach of contract.

He said that apparently FLORINO "wound

up" with some building

in this "exqhange."

Informant revealed that PETE DI LORENZO, Of DI LORENSO'S

Market, 13327 Mack Avenue, went to Montreal, Canada, this week,

Informant said that

DI LORENZO allegedly went on a business trip

though he still thinks tIt DI IORENZO is either a "courier" for

"the people" or else in narcotics traffic. He said that just

recently DI LORENZO returned from a trip to Italy.

Informant

advised that MIKE NEPA recently returned from a trip to

California where he visited ANGELO LOCRICCHIO.

He added that

NEPA is now working at his trade as a house painter.

Informant advised that he recently saw THOMAS FRANCIS

"BOO BOO" DAVIS driving a new all-white 1963 Oldsmobile with

Michigan license BB

8605.

(It is noted that this license is

registered to BOO BOO's mother, SELMA DAVIS,

7430 Coleman,

Dearborn, on à 1960 Oldsmobile 88 Four door).

Informant advised that he was recently incompany with

DR.

JOSEPH RASAK.

He said that RASAK was elated because the

former Township of Dearborn had recently become the new City of

Dearborn Heights.

Informant stated that RASAR claimed that he

had the Chief of Police, the City Attorney, and the head of the

Vice Squad of the New City"in his pocket"

Informant advised

that he agreed with RASAK that this is a "tremendous clout" and

that he and RASAK intend to meet soon with BILLY GIACALONE in

attempts to get GIACALONE to open up the syndicate barbute

game as a "starter" in Dearborn Heights, Michigan.

Informant revealed that the coffee house at E. Congress

and St. Aubin, called the Club Hofflex,

is in the name of

TOMMY EMON, although TOMMY only "fronts" for "BIFFO" MACCÁGNONE

Informant said that recently BIFFO was going to move the coffee

house license to a new place at Baldwin and E. Lafayette but

that the polce license bureau eventually would not approve the

Informant advised that JACKIE TOCCO has recently been

going around town

"hitting up" all the Italian business people

particularly those in "the outfit" from the old E. Congress

neighborhood, and

requesting a cash donation for the Holy Family

Church.

Informant said

by this means.

that TOCCO is looking to raise $25,000

DocId: 32315544

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

Informant disclosed that EDDIE MORAN has a brother

who was formerly a superintendent at the Ford

He stated that JULIE MORAN, who may now use the

name JULIUS GAIL, is a successful manufacturer's representative

in Detroit who flies his own plane on business all over the

country.

Informant claimed that a week ago, when he ran into

EDDIE MORAN in the coffee house owned by TOMMY MARTINI, on

E. Jefferson and Brush Sts.,

Detroit, MORAN told him that he

(MORAN) was "working

a game" in Youngstown, Ohio:

Informant advised that PAUL LEGO told him the other

day that he had been arrested for "queer", i.e, counterfeit

Informant said

I that LEGO claimed

that LANEY COBB contacted him (LEGO) and admitted that he had

signed a statement against him with Secret Service.

Informant

advised that LEGO was released the same day on $2,000.00 bond.

Informant advised that many thieves are active

recently

in the Detroit area burglarizing the cars of visiting salesmen

as they stop over night at local motels. Informant stated that

the other day he was

furnished twenty-nine beautiful jackets which

bore

"made in Britain" labels

He said that he sold these 29

jackets in one afternoon for

$10.00 each He revealed that

PETE LICAVOLI's kids, TEDDY LICAVOLI and MIKE LICAVOLI, each

bought two of these

"hot" jackets.

Informant also advised that

he was then in possession of thirty boxes of McGregor sport shirts,

eich box containing three

new shirts. He stated that these shirts

each carry a $5.00 or $7.50 price tag and that he is selling

them for $7.00 a box.

Informant stated that he has told his

source of these shirts and jackets that he doesn't want anything

from an interstate shipment and that he is convinced that these

specific items came from a salesman's car. (It is noted that

Informant later mentioned that he sold these thirty boxes of

«DOCKE SHERMANY

shirts within a couple of hourg that same day to CHICKIE SHERMAN

and the crowd that hangs around the Imperial Hotel. D

In accord with the current crime conditions report,

Informant was asked to outline verbally the present structure

of the Detroit Italian syndicate as it exists, to his knowledge,

today:

Informant, for purposes of this report, advised as

follows:

=. 9

DocId: 32315544

Page 9

---

## Page 10

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

Informant advised that the Italian syndicate is

the major racket group in the Detroit, Michigan, area.

He

stated that this syndicate is made up

primarily of Sicilian

hoodlums, although it also is composed of hoodlums of other

nationalities, such as Syrian, Jewish and Negro, who carry

out duties assigned

to them by leading racket figures.

The

principal activity of this syndicate is the control of the

rackets, which includes all forms of gambling.

variously refers to the Italian syndicate as "the combination",

the "outfit", and "thepeople".

Informant advised that

JOE ZERILLI is the leading

figure in the Italian syndicate

in the Detroit, Michigan, area.

He stated that ZERILLI commands

the highest respect from

the

hoodlums in the syndicate and that his word is considered to be

law among

: this group of individuals.

Informant advised that

ZERILLI has a reputation of being an individual who does not

generally condone strong-arm methods and as one who would

rather resolve problems arising out of syndicate activities

through the use of mediation among the "elder statesmen" of

the

syndicate.

Informant further identified these

"elder states-

men" of the Detroit

Italian syndicate

as being ANGELO MELI,

WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO, and JOHN "PAPA JOHN" PRIZIOLA.

He stated that the

"elder statesmen" are considered to be a

mediation board

l and that these individuals convene to hear

major disagreements among syndicate members and to settle

all

such major disagreements.

Informant further related that

ZERILLI and the

"elder statesmen" in this syndicate periodically

receive a certain percentage of all monies derived from

gambling

activities controlled in the Detroit area by the syndicate.

Informant identified further the three major groups

of the Italian syndicate in Detroit as follows:

PETER LICAVOLI - JOSEPH "SCARFACE JOE" BOMMARITO grOUp,

whose active leader is MATHEW "MIKE" RUBINO.

CORRADO GROUP, which is controlled by DOMINIC "FAT DOMINIC»:

CORRACO, son of the late PETE CORRADO, and whose active leader

is ANTHONY GIACALONE.

PRIZIOLA-POLIZZI group, which is operated by JOHN "PAPA JOHN"

PRIZIOLA and MICHAEL

SANTO POLIZZI

Informant further advised that the main independent

Negro numbers house operators in Detroit, Michigan, are

EDDIE

WINGATE, WALTER SIMMONS, CLARENCE WILLIAMS, JOHN JUDSON WHITE

and BURRELL "JUNIOR" PACE.

- 10 -

DocId: 32315544

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

Informant further advised that the independent Negro

nunb ers operators are completely independent of the Italian

syndicate in their numbers operation, however, they, do obtain

the winning numbers each day from the Italian

syndicate,

along with sundry supplies used in the numbers operation from

the syndicate.

Informant emphasized that these independent

Negro numbers operators settle disputes within their own

operations without the aid of the Italian syndicate.

Informant advised that TONY ZERILLI, the son of JOE

ZERILLI; JACKIE TOCCO, the son Of WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO

and also the son-in-law of ANGELO MELI; MICHAEL POLIZZI, the sons

in-law of JOHN "PAPA JOHN" PRIZIOLA; and DOMINIC "FAT DOMINIC"'

CORRADO, the son of the deceased gangland chief PETE CORRADO and

a nephew of JOE ZERILLI, are considered to be the fast-rising.

young leaders who are expected to take over complete control of

the Italian syndicate in the Detroit, Michigan, area. Informant

advised that each of the above-named young leaders

tensively throughout the united states, particularly to the Los

Angeles and Las Vegas areas in their attempts to broaden the

scope of Italian racketeering activities emanating from the

Detroit area and that their parents, who are

"elder statesmen"

of the Detroit Italian syndicate, have obviously become content

to limit their activities, power, and prestige to the Detroit

area only.

Informant furnished the following break-down of the

different numbers groups and their leaders:

PETER LICAVOLI - JOSEPH "SCARFACE JOE" BOMMARITO GROUP

Informant advised that PETER LICAVOLI and JOSEPH

"SCARFACE JOE" BOMMARITO are partners in this operation and also

business partners. Informant stated that MIKE RUBINO is the

active leader and operational head of this group, however, due

to RUBINO's involvement and arrest in the Palm Furniture Bank-

ruptcy case, he has lost a great deal of respect in the syndicate

and the leaders believe that RUBINO will be going to jail. In-

formant stated that it is rumored that either TONY CIMINI Or

TONY GIACALONE, who are fast-rising in the Italian syndicate in

Detroit, may take over RUBINO's leadership.

Informant stated

that the following individuals are considered the chief lieu

tenants in the LICAVOLI- BOMMARITO group:

DocId:32315544

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

GEORGE "MOSIE" MASSU - a 50-50 partner with MIKE RUBINO

in illegal activities and also legitimate business

enterprises.

ELIAS "RIP" KOURY - individual who obtains winning number

each day for numbers operation and is more or less con

sidered as business manager of this group.

PHIL PETERS - a partner with MASSU in a numbers unit.

ANTHONY "BLACK TONY" TERAMINE • a trouble-shooter for

this group in their operations.

ANTHONY "TONY LONG" CIMINI - has a numbers "unit" and active

as a bookkeeper for RUBINO's numbers operation.

LEONARD "LENNY" CIMINI - brother of TONY LONG and bookkeeper

in RUBINO's operation.

MAX STERN - handles

numbers "unit" and football pool action

and is an "enforcer" for this group.

MARTIN THOMAS - handles numbers action for this group.

JAMES "BIFFO" MACCAGNONE - a nephew of RUBINO, handles single-

action numbers operation for this group; has been arrested in

the harboring of THOMAS VIOLA and is awaiting trial.

DAVE FELDMAN = a brother-it-law of MASSU and active in numbers

operation in this group.

JOSEPH "LONG JOE" BONMARITO - a brother-in-law of LICAVOLI

and office manager of LICAVOLI's Apache Realty.

Informant advised that the leaders of th LICAVOLI-

BOMMARITO Group sometimes meet at the Apache Building

Corp. offices, 15126 Mack Ave., Grosse Pointe Park, Mich. •

which is owned and operated by PETE LICAVOLI, or at the home

Of MIKE RUBINO, 1068 Bedford Rd., Grosse Pointe Park, Mich.

Informant advised that "SCARFACE JOE" BOMMARITO

resides throughout the year in Miami, Florida, and is very

ill and not expected to recover.

• 12 .

DocId: 32315544

Page 12

---

## Page 13

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 Use 2107 notey

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 137-2879

CORRADO GROUP • FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE MURPHY HOUSE

Informant advised that DOMINIC "FAT DOMINIC" CORRADO,

who is the son of deceased gangland chief PETE CORRADO, is the

leader of this group and ANTHONY "TONY' GIACALONE is the active

leader and operational

head of this group.

Informant further

advised that GIACALONE's brother, VITO "BILLY" GIACALONE, is

one of the leaders of this group and he is in charge of all

forms of gambling, particularly the syndicate barbute game.

Informant advised that the Lieutenants of this group are:

PETER VITALE = father-in-law of "'FAT DOMINIC" CORRADO and

operates CORRADO's Grecian Gardens Restaurant.

PAUL VITALE - Operates CORRADO's Grecian Gardens Restaurant

and is the brother of PETE VITALE.

MIKE THOMAS - on-the-scenes operator of the syndicate barbute

game

ART CAPLAN - handbook operator

ANN PAUL - the bookkeeper in CORRADO's numbers

house.

JOHN SERRA - syndicate shylock

DOMINIC "SPARKY" CORRADO • handles nunb ers "unit" for this group.

PRIZIOLA-POLIZZI GROUP

Informant advised that JOHN "PAPA JOHN" PRIZIOLA is

the head of this group and his son-in-law, MICHAEL SANTO POLIZZI

is the

active leader of this group.

Informant further stated

that RAFFAELE "JIMMY"' QUASARANO, ROCCO PRIZIOLA, LEO MONTELEONE,

AUGIE DI ORIO, AND SAM FINAZZO are active in this group.

= 13 -

DocId: 32315544

Page 13

---

