# docid-32158762

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote);

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10129-10114

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-32965-138

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/03/1964

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

DEMOH, ASSOC, NAME CHECK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

06/07/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32158762

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

- DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL

UNITED STATES C

ERNMENT

Memorandum

CLASSIFIED DECISIONS FINALIZED BY

DE PARIMENTER

Director, FBI (100-32965)

1/3/61

Но ной

regar mexico eity 105-3850) 1P1

дом реалам

SUBJECT

GEORGE

DE

MOHRENSCHILDT

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCH ILDT

IS

R

BUDED 3/1/64

OF

ADVISED Bi

Class

fron

4-27-11

Dale off

eclas

914/77

ENCLOSURES.

CASON

im meth

6RS1R

Or REVIL

genera

ren

OS

ed herewith 29 /copies of a

letterhead menoran duma

dated and captioned

ains

chappen lets above

REFERENCES

1/20/82

Sand Bican to

Legat»

Mexico letter to Bureau

dated 2/27/64

Mexico City dated 2/28/64.

(W)

FICES.

AGENCIES

SIFIED B SC68 SLO GCL

United States Immigration and Naturalization Service

report dated +12 43/58

ANTONTO GARCIAY ROJAS

at Brownsville, Texas,

concerning one

born 12/9/14,

at. Tampico, Tamaulipas,

Mexico, disclosed that a confidential source

who was an ex

member of the Communist Party of Mexico (PCM) in the State

of Tamaulipas and who had furnished reliable information in

had stated on 12/11/57,

On 1720/57, RANGES 0 DE LAVGARZA CARTA, a , Dex me ber of

the PCM who resided in Tampica,

had told him that ANTONIO aft

GARCIA ROJAS was an ex member of the PCM who was once affiliated

with a regional PCM committee located at Posa Rica,

Veracruz,

MexIco.

This source reported that DE LA GARZA hadgdescribed

GARCIA ROJAS as being the ultimate authority and leader of

Section No. 37 of the Petroleum Workers Union where he wielded

much influence

The source said that DE LA GARZA told him

that GARCIA ROJAS was

at that time (December, 1957) approxi

mately 38 yearstof

Mexico, and then Refan

resident of Reynosa,

Tamaulipas,

Lands

diaclette

tHe Mexican Petroleum Department:

1- an dum- 144

Bureau

inck 0y

100-32965

8 ENCLOSUR

(1

Hans stationer

(2

Dallas

(1

- New York, Info.

CTAREVIEWED BY EW/JFK TASK FORCE

1

Mexico CIty

ON 22/40 m

JRG 8jhl

AMARZEE

C 644 RB

1.45 RR

ST-101

2cc Pres, Commi

3/23160

LiAISON

RELEAS

RELEAS

PARTE

GOTAL DENIED

MORi

BA

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aut of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

_DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFi

of anthropology and flatosys who informed Gobernacion that

MOHRENSCHILDT had not been given

permission

by that

Institute to do archaeological research in Mexico.

quently, the decretary of Gobernacion informed MOHRENSCHILD!

would have to firet obtain permission from the

Mexican institute of Anthropology and Fistory of the

Ministry of Pablic Education, Mexico, D. E.s Prior t0

soliciting the permission of Gobernacion to

enter che

country for the alore mentioned puxposes. (CU

The files of Gobernacion contained no

information

concerning the MORENSCHILOTs since Augusi 27, 1900, no

indication that the MOBRANSCHILDts had corresponded

with

Gobernacion since chat time, and no indication

Or not they subsequently entered Mexico. (lU

as to whether

On February 29, 1964, ColOnel CARLOS ESPINOSA

caulo, Chiel, Identification section,

Metropolitan Police,

Mexico, D. I.,

thai the records of that office

contained

identifiable information concerning the subjects.

Colonel ESPINOSA FELIX advised

that the records

of that oftice disclosed no derogatory information concerning

LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN but indicated that she was linger-

printed for the issuance of driver's liconses on July 9,

1935, and

March 26, 1942.

Im 1912, she gave an address

9, Fraccionamiento acacias, Colonia Mixcoac, Mexico,

He further stated that she had obtained Cortiricares

of Good Conduci from thai office for passport purposes on

the following dates, at which time she gave the following

addresses:

April 18, 1951 -- Calle Yosemite No. 59, Colonia

Napoles,

Manico, D. F.; May 4, 1960 - Calle Miami No. 20,

Napoles,

da, s, rat so do, to meals, a telen, surrend

Ois March 3, 1954, SEBGTO GARRIDO,

Chief, Identia

fication Section,

Federal judicial Police of Mexico, Mexico,

D. F.,

and Miss

ARMINDA REYES,

Identification Section,

Judicial Police of the Federal District and Territories,

Mexico,

?. E., advised that the records of their respective

offices contained no identifiable information concerning the

SUbJECES ON LILLA PARDO VIUDA DIE LARI". Z)

CONFID

NTIAL

=2 c

CONFIXITIAL

100-32965-138

DocId: 32158762

Page 3

---

