# docid-32329236

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

RECORD SERIES :

124-90085-10117

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-491-X3

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection det of 199.

444 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45873 Date:

01-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 05/11/1962

PAGES:

35

SUBJECTS :

ALBERT MEADOWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF IRS, BOP

COMMENTS: RPT, REFERRED TO BOP

v9.1

HH 45873

2

DocId: 32329236

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 162-109

BROWNLEE advised that this was the only long distance

telephone call which he has received from the State of Texas

during the last ten years and he cannot in any way connect this

telephone call with any of the individuals referred to above.

The following investigation was conducted by

SA JOHN V. ALMON at Bristol, Texas:

A review of the telephone directory fox the City of

Bristol, Texas, on March 20, 1962, disclosed that telephone

number MO 6-2131 is listed for R.

C. THREADGILL, known in the

community as "ROOSTER" THREADGILL.

THREADGILL is well known

in Ennis, Texas, as a gambler and close associate of JOHN

HORRELL, Ennis,

who has previously admitted in interview with

Agents of the Dallas Office that he is a "bookmaker".

THREADGILI has been arrested by the Ellis County Sheriff's

Office on charges of gambling.

On March 23, 1962, the El Paso Office furnished

the following:

The following investigation was conducted by SA

THOMAS B. WHITE, JR., at the Federal Correctional Institution,

La Tuna,

Texas, on March 5, 1962:

JACK A. COHN, Record Clerk, advised that his records

reflected that ALBERT MEADOWS had been incarcerated in that

institution as Inmate No. 1151l.

He made available the prison file pertaining to

MEADOWS and a review of same reflects that he had FBI No.

856 929. For violation of the Federal Narcotics Laws, he

was sentenced to serve two years by the United States District

Court at Dallas, Texas, on March 1, 1939.

He was arrested on

this charge December 10, 1938, and was committed to the

United States Penitentiary at

Leavenworth, Kansas, on March 7;

1939, to serve this sentence.

He was transferred to the

Federal Correctional Institution at La Tuna on May 6, 1939,

and was released from this institution on October 7,

2940.

The file reflects that his wife is listed as Mrs.

BEATRICE MEADOWS, 1413

St. Louis Street, Dallas, Texas.

- 11 -

74 45873

DooId:32329236 Page 2

---

