# docid-32299805

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10226-10085

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3267-302

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/25/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JRO, WHEREABOUTS, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32299805. Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conra

DeLoach

Mal one"

Rösen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

XXx

Radio

• Teletype

URGENT

8-25-62

DIRECTOR

/ FROM SAC LOS ANGELES

250510

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA, ARO

LOS ANGELES 4268-0 ADVISED THAT HE APPROACHED ROSELLI AT

FRIARS CLUB AUGUST 22 LAST AND ASKED ROSELLI FOR OPINION OF

GEORGE SEEMAN BECAUSE OF ROSELLI'S EXPERIENCE IN DEALING WITH

INDIVIDUALS SIMILAR TO SEEDMAN. SEEDMAN RECENTLY TESTIFIED

CONCERNING PAYMENT OF $10,000 TO MICKEY COHEN REGARDING DIS-

PUTE IN VENDING MACHINE BUSINESS. SEEDMAN OFFERED EMPLOYMENT

TO INFORMANT. ROSELLI COUNSELED INFORMANT. WITH LONG DISSERTATION

HOW TO HANDLE SEEDMAN. HE SAID DO NOT SELL YOURSELF - GET A

"'PIECE" OF CONTRACT AND GET IT IN "WRITING."' ASK FOR: MORE

MONEY WHEN YOU HAVE SOMETHING IN WRITING "THEY CANNOT FREEZE YOU

OUT.": DO NOT INDICATE THAT YOU ARE NOT AWARE OF SOMETHING -

WHEN THEY TELL YOU TO HANDLE SOMETHING - TELL THEM YOU HANDLED

IT - WHETHER YOU DID OR NOT. ROSELLI SAID HE LEARNED THIS

THROUGH EXPERIENCE IN HIS OWN DEALINGS. HE TOLD INFORMANT TO

COME BACK TO HIM IF HE SHOULD RUN INTO SOMETHING AND NOT KNOW

HOW TO HANDLE THE SITUATION.

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE TODAY OF USUAL ROSELLI HANGOUTS

FAILED TO REVEAL HIS WHEREABOUTS.

IT WILL BE RECALLED THAT

ROSELLI WAS TO MEET UNKNOWN INDIVISQUAL AT "USUAL PLACE AT

1 0'CLOCK'' TODAY.

T 32641-302

RECEIVED:

6:03 AM

ENT

52 AUG 27 1502

F227

50 AUG 311962

If the intelligence

contoined in the above message is

¿o be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

141531

DocId: 32299805 Page 2

---

