# docid-32330392

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10055

HQ

105-84265-4

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USO 2107 Notei.

Cased :NI 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MOORE

TO: BELMONT

TITLE :

DATE: 01/28/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330392

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7/31181

CLASS.

& EXT.

BY 2842RMV/BALANS

REASON-ICIM II,

2.4.2

DATE

OF

REVIEW

7/31/91

DIONAL FORM NO. LO

UNITED STATES GOVER

ENT

*Memorandum

CONFE

ENTIAL

Tolson

Mohr -

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

TO

MR. A!

H. BELLONT

Rosen

DATE:

Tamm

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

HEREIN

I IS NACLASSIFIED EXCEPT

ROM :

MR. D: E. MOORE

Ingram

WHERE SHOWN THE WISE

Gandy

Parsons.

SUBJECT:

TERNANDEL de

CASTRO

RODRIGUEZ:

MT. MohT

MT.

copietire

Belmont

GEORGE L. VALDES AMABLE

Mr.

DeLoach

Jorge Walder

ROLANDO MASFERRER

CROJAS - VICTIM

Rosen

KIDNAPING:

CONSPIRACY

MT.

Donahoe

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBADECLASSIFIED BY

oN 5-6-94

1-1

Memorandun Donahoe to you 1-27-60 advised of a proposed

plot to kidnap an anti-Castro Cuban exile in the Miami area and

4

that arrangements were being made by SA William Holloman of Miami/

2-1

to pose as a local police officer and meet with the unknown Cuban

subjects on the night of 1-27-60 to determine details of the plan.

SAC Teague, Miami, advised 9:45 PM, 1-27-60, that the

facts in this matter were discussed with Assistant United States

Attorney Lloyd G. Bates, Jr., Miami, on the afternoon of 1-27-60

and Bates advised that the facts showed a conspiracy to kidnap

(violation of Section 371, Title 18, USC) and that if subjects

proposed actual kidnaping of Cuban exile to SA Holloman he would

authorize prosecution under Section 371 and authorized taking the

subjects into custody. SAC league advised that Holloman, as a

representative of the Dade County Sheriff's Office, met with sub-

jects Valdez and Fernandez at the Airport hotel,

• Miami, from

7:47 PM to 8:16 Pl, 1-27-60, during which time Valdez and Fe-

nandes propositioned Holloman for assistance in the kidnaping of

Rolando Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban Senator, and offered

$25,000 for successful kidnaping. Subjects indicated the plot

would be carried out at a later date and that payment would be

made after kidnaping and after Masferrer was back in Cuba.

view of Assistant Únited States Attorney's authorization,

Valdez

and Fernandez were taken into custody by Miami Agents and were

being interviewed at the time of Teague's call.. Teague advised

that a complaint was being filed on the evening of 1-27-60 be-

fore United States Commissioner Roger Edward Davis, Miami.

Teague advised that Fernandez has been a Miami informant

(MM 635-5)

but has been in cuba and has not been in touch with Miami recently.

He has documents on him showing he is an officer of the cuban

National Revolutionary Police.

Teague said he would furnish

Bureau additional details within

the next couple of hours and I

advised him

release.

Mat ive wold Set are tou out regend to a prese

103

12100

DEM:ta (8)1

8O JAN Xy 1960

EX-102

38F28 # 1960g

4

CONFIDINTIAL

54460

DocId: 32330392

Page 2

---

