# docid-32317640

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10353-10377

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-113C-60

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/16/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

JOHN ROSELLI (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

11/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32317640

59

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

PATE: (267-7413907

Transmit the following in

Via

TELETYPE

FBI.

Date:

5/16/62

PLAIN TEXT

URGENT

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

FROM:

SAG, LOS ANGELES (92-113C).

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR.

ROSSELLI STILL RESIDING LA APARTMENT AND CONTINUES USING CAR

OBTAINED MAY ELEVEN LAST FROM STANDARD CAR LEASING, B. H. CALIF.

SOURCE AT THIS FIRM ADVISED ROSSELLI RENTED CAR FOR ONE OR TWO

WEEKS AND TOLD SOURCE WAS HAVING WORK DONE ON HIS EYES AND NEEDED

CAR TO VISIT DOCTORS.

LA THREE FOUR FOUR FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT ROSSELLI AND JAMES

P. CANTILLON WENT TO HOLLYWOOD PARK RACE TRACK TODAY.

PARTIALLY COMPLETED EXAMINATION OFDDEPOSITS TO JUDITH CAMPBELL-S

BANK ACCOUNTS, BANK OF AMERICA, SUNSET DASH LAUREL BRANCH INDICATE

THAT SINCE AUGUST NINETEEN SIXTY ONE SHE HAS RECEIVED ABOUT EIGHT

THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM RICHARD M. ELLWOOD WHO IS CLOSE FRIEND AND

WHO IS NOW ENGAGED IN MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT WORK.

HED: Tg

(1)

SEARCHED

INDEXED

SERIALIZED

FILED

92-113 C-60

Approved:

Special.

Went in Charge

Sent

Per

DocId: 32317640 Page 2

---

