# docid-32332918

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10216

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2940-64

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

FBI

MILLEN

TO: CONRAD

TITLE :

DATE: 01/23/1961

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332918

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

•OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERIMENT

Memorandum

Tolson.

Mohr

arsoi

elmo

Callahan

TO

Mr. Conrad bu

DATE:

January 23, 1961

JUNE

FROM : Ro 1. Millen ReM

MaGuire

Rosen

C. Sulkivan

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

/ SUBJECT:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

AR

(00: PITTSBURGH)

In the above-captioned case Pittsburgh has conducted a MISUR

survey and submitted FD-142 requesting authority to install a MUTT

transmitter in subject's office.

The Laboratory has studied the survey results and concludes

that the environment, from an electrical standpoint, into which it is

proposed that the installation be made is generally unsuited for a

radio transmitter installation. The concealed equipment and antenna

must be placed directly under a corrugated sheet steel roof. Electrical

machinery in the adjoining elevator building, banks of high tension

transformers adjacent to the point of installation, the transmission

distance along with the high industrial area noise are all considered

to be disruptive elements insofar as obtaining successful transmissions

from this area is concerned. However, due to the importance of this

particular subject, the Laboratory suggests that an installation attempt

be made in spite of the adverse electrical conditions surrounding the

area." In the event the environment precludes successful transmissions

out to a monitoring point, then the equipment would have to be removed

and the plant discontinued. In the event the installation can be made to

function adequately, then, of course, it will be continued by the

Pittsburgh Office.

REG- 4

92-2940-64

•If the Investigative Division agrees that an attempt should be

made under these conditions to establish the MISUR recommended by

Pittsburgh, the Laboratory suggests that an engineer of the Electronics

Section proceed to Pittsburgh in order to supervise the installation.

RECOMMENDATION:

T8, JAN 301961

That the Laboratory's evaluation of the Pittsbursh Survey in this

case be forwarded to the attention of the Investigative Division.

1. - Mr.. John Leggett, Room 2141

JAM MY IQU

ATE

CRIM

DocId: 32332918 Page 2

---

