# docid-32295540

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10215-10316

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

- AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-506

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/17/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/25/1998

LCN, ASSOC, JENKS, JOE, AFFIL, GENOVESE FAMILY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32295540

Page 1

27

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DÂTE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG.

NO. 27

UNITED STATES

LERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, NEW YORK (92-3011) (C)

SUBJECT

JOE JENKS

AR

DATE:

10/17/63

ReBulet to New York dated 1/2863, captioned,

"THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION: ET AL; AR-CONSPIRACY.

JOE/JENKS (NICKNAME), was identified on June 13,

New York indices were reviewed and no references

were located which could be identified with the subject.

The records of the Bureau of Criminal Identification,

New York City Police Department, New York City, as well

as the Credit Bureau of Greater New York, were reviewed

but nothing identifiable with JOE JENKS could be located.

On September 5, 1963 JOSEPH VALACHI was

Interviewed concerning JOE JENKS.

individual was unknown to him by

He stated that this

that name.

SA AUGUST J. MICEK caused the records of the

Central Investigation

• Bureau, New York City Police

DePartment, to be checked on

September 24, 1963 but no

information identifiable with JOE JENKS could be located.

Informants generally familiar with top hoodlum

and anti-racketeering matters in the New York area have

been contacted, and in the absence of a physical description,

photograph, or other identifytag data, were unable to

identify the nickname JOE JENKS with an individual known

to them.

This case is being closed at this time since

all logical investigation to further identify this

individual has been conducted without success.

It will

be reopened if further information is received in the

future which can substantiate former NY 3864-C-VEs

information or which can furnish essential descriptive

data necessary to identley this individual: -60 54-506

Bureau

New York

12 OCT 21 1963

JPB:ml

6 4 0CT

(3)

281963

DocId: 32295540 Page 2

---

