# docid-32288259

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date: •

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10199-10035

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1721

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, EBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/16/1965

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC NOTE

y9.1

DocId: 32288259

Page 1•

194

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

July 17, 1965

Chicago informant 6283 - C

was recently contacted by an associate

of Pat Marcy, Hoodlum representative

in Chicago, First Ward, concerning

outstanding underworld

offer of

$100,000 for legal way to free

Giancana from incarceration of

contempt charges.

Informant advised

that if he could succeed in arranging

this he would be virtually assured

of local judgeship.

Attorneys for

• Giancana have

filed

another emergency

motion for stay of incarceration

pending

decision on appeal on merits

of contempt action against Giancana.

AINED

Bathan

DocId: 32288259

Page 2

---

## Page 3

eleased under thế John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

DATE: 11-14/2017

64)

DECODED COPY:

AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

I RADIO

&X TELETYPE

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

9:37 PM ODST DEFERRED 7-16-65 ULV

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

170005

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

REG. 60

CG 6283-C ADVISED HE WAS RECENTLY CONTACTED BY CHARLEY

NICOSIA, ASSOCIATE OF PAT MARCY IN FIRST WARD DEMOCRATIC ORGAN-

IZATION, CONCERNING OUTSTANDING OFFER OF $100,000 FOR LEGAL

WAY TO FREE GIANCANA FROM CONTEMPT CHARGE CONFINING GIANCANA

COOK COUNTY JAIL SINCE JULY 1 LAST. NICOSIA FURTHER INDICATED

IF INFORMANT ABLE TO SUCCEED IN ABOVE SITUATION, HE WOULD BE

VIRTUALLY ASSURED OF LOCAL JUDGESHIP. U

ATTORNEY TOM WADDEN FILED ANOTHER EMERGENCY MOTION FOR STAY

PENDING APPEAL ON BEHALF OF GIANCANA BEFORE SEVENTH CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS ON JULY 15 LAST. APPELLANT RENEWED HIS PRIOR MOTIONS

FOR STAY ON GROUND THAT BRIEF, NOW FILED WITH COURT RE THIS ACTION,

DEMONSTRATES STROND LIKELIHOOD THAT HE WILL PREVAIL ON THE MERITS

AND THEREFORE, JUSTIFIES THE INTERMITTANT RELIEF. U

BRIEF STATES THAT THREE FACTORS JUSTIFY. PRESENT REQUEST FOR

STAY PENDING APPEAL, ONE, STAY WILL MAINTAIN THE STATUS QUO:

TWO, THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL LIKEIHOOD THAT APPELLANT WILL PREVAIL

ON APPEAL: THREE, WITHOUT SUCH RELIEF, APPELLANT WILL SUFFER

IRREPARABLE INJURY.U

| GOVERNMENT GIVEN UNTIL JULY 19 NEXT TO ANSWER. U

REC- 60

92-3171-1721

ALL INFOECEIVED: 0010 568DED

HEREIN

1200

DATE 617/84

itzy.EX:113

HEREIN IS

ATION CONTAINET

UNCLASSIFIED g

EXCEPT WHORE SHOWN

JUL 20 1965

PHERWISE

intelligence

paraphrased

in order

in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

"at the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288259

Page 3

---

