# docid-32330806

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90093-10012

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-54154-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/08/1957

GOVERNOR EARL K. LONG

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32330806

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

WATERARD TOT NO. C

44 USC

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATB: January

SAC, NEW ORLEANS

ReMr. Rosen

M1957m

[rotter.

Mr. Nease.

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy.

SUBJECT:

GOVERNOR EARL K.

LONG

INFORMATION CONCERNING PAYOFFS

RAYMOND ROLLING, operator of the Pelican Liquor

Store and Bar, 2033 Metairie Road, Jefferson Parish,

Louisiana; also operator of a race horse handbook at the

same. address and who obtains racing results Iron.

Jestern Union wire service operated by the CARLOS MARCELL

organization, advised SA LAVRAVO M. SHEARER, JR., On 8

basis on December 27, 1956, that, according

to Information he received from associates of MARCELLO,

the payoff to Governor EARL K. LONG by the MARCELLO

organization totalled $120,000: ROLLING advised that

LONG reportedly received $20,000 prior to the gubernatorial

primary

and the remaining $100.000 was received subsequent

to LONG's election. ROLLING advised that part of this

payment was for the pardoning of narcotics peddlers in

confinement at the Louisiana State Penitentiary who have

worked for MARCELLO:

In connection with payoffs by the MARCELLO

organization to Governor LONG, Confidential Informant NO

1075-0 on October 29, 1955, advised that on October 27,

1955, he was present

at the office of A. Bologna Company,

New Orleans, when CARLOS MARCELLO and an unknown white

male whom he had not previously observed in New Orleans

and who reportedly was from New York came to BOLOGNA's

office. Informant adviaed that NOFIA PECORA, New Orleans

associate of MARCELLO, then arrived with an

unknown white

male reportedly from New York.

MARCELLO telephoned BOLOGNA

who was not at the office and BOLOGNA later arrived with

BLAISE D'ANTONNI of New Orleans, and all these individuals -

went Into an inner office, informant remaining in the outer

office and could hear portions of their conversation.

informant advised that gambling was discussed and that

MARCELLO was to go to New York that evening to contact

#COSTELLO. Informant asked ANTHONY BOLOGNA,- JR., son of

Bureau

New Orleans (62-0)RECORDED-61

LMS: c Jk

(3)

INDEXED-61

62 54157

16 JAN: 15 1957

60 JA

Co

1PCA 2a5/780K

DocId: 32330806

Page 2

---

