# docid-32403752

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10322-10198

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA-EXEC REG FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

rasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: MILLER. ACTING LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

TO

DCI

TITLE

MEMO: HSCA STAFF VISIT TO MEXICO CITY, 30 MAY 1978

DATE

05/16/1978

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS

HSCA

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART

PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

07/07/04

COMMENTS : JFK-M-13: 16: 20040323-1063368

[RI

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10322-10198

HH 53217 DoOId:32403752

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"so?

SECRET

Exocutive Registry

78-5579

OLC 78-1745

16 MAY 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

FROM

: Lyle L. Miller

Acting Legislative Counsel

SUBJECT

:

House

Select Committee on Assassinations Staff

Visit to Mexico City, 30 May 1978

1. (U) Action Requested: None; for information only.

2. (S)

The House Select Committee on Assassinations staff

plans to visit Mexico City to interview individuals in connection

with their investigation into the death of President John F.

Kennedy.

3.

(U) The Committee is sending four staff members to

Mexico City. They are:

Gary Cornwell, Deputy Chief Counsel

Harold Leap,

Investigator

Dan Hardway,

Researcher

Edwin Lopez, Researcher

4.

(S) This team is scheduled to arrive in Mexico City

from Houston via TIA 983, on 30 May for a four to five day visit.

They expect to contact the Mexican Government Attorney General's

to seek assistance in locating Mexican citizens for

interviews.

They have asked the Agency to assist in locating

other individuals, and we have forwarded their request to the

Chief of Station,

Mexico (see attached).

5.

(S)

Of the individuals requested, Charles Flick is a forme

employee and Ramon-Joseph Alvarez Durant formerly operated a DDO

photographic surveillance site.

A third individual was recently

requested. He is Robert Zambernardi, a former ISD officer who

retired in 1965, listing American Embassy, Mexico City as forwarding

EXEGITIVE REGISTRY FILE SKEL

8

=2 OUT A 3131300

SECRET

HH 53217 DocId:32403752 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

address.

We expect to ask the Chief of Station Mexico to

assist in locating these three and to assist in providing

a secure facility for them to be interviewed by the

Committee staff.

As per our Memorandum of Understanding with

the Committee,

all notes taken during these three interviews

should be retained by the Station, classified Secret and

pouched to OLC for disposition.

The Committee will carry

with them a copy of your letter to Chairman Louis Stokes

authorizing current/former employees to talk to Committee

investigators.

SIGNED

Lyle L. Miller

Attachment:

As Stated

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee w/att

1 - DDCI w/att

I - ER w/att

1 - SA/DO/O w/att

2

SECRET

HH 53217

DocId:32403752 Page

3

---

## Page 4

14240

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: (5A/0010

INFO: FILE, VR. DDO -4, C/IP/DMS, C/LA-8, C/PCS,:

DDO/DO, ODPD-D, OLE,

4: (19/P):1

78. 0696227

PAGE 001

TOT: 1305592 MAY 78

DIRECTOR 222189

SECRET

STAFF: 1305592 DIRECTOR 222189

TO NEMEXICO CITY.

File HSCA

WNINTELSRYBAT

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF INVESTIGATORS

PLANNING VISIT MEXICO CITY EARLY JUNE TO INTERVIEW PERSONS RELATED TO

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION, WILL PROVIDE MORE SPECIFIC DETAILS RE TRAVEL

WHEN KNOWN®

MEANTIME, PLEASE CHECK YOUR RECORDS AND PROVIDE ASAP

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS, DUB OR OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA ON FOLLOWING WHOM

WE ASSUME HSCA MAY WANT TO INTERVIEW:

+ 744%

•5-1854

•A.

¡ SILVIA DURAN

B.

HORATIO. DURAN

C."

RUBAN DURAN

D. OSCAR CONTRERAS VELÇEQUEZ

OSCAR MOLINA

ENRIQUE MOLINA

GO PEDRO GUITIERREZ VELINCIA

•ELENA GARRO

I ELENITA COP. DE PAZ

ELINITA) GARRO

DE PAZ

REMOND JOSEPH DURANT ALVEREZ

GEORGE FREDERICK MUNRO N

HSCA STAFF HAS IDENTIFIED CHARLES FLICK RESIDING IN MEXICO

AS ONE: OF THE INDIVIDUALS THEY WILL WANT TD INTERVIEW. MR.

FLICK

PRESENTLY RESIDING AT: AVENIDA DE LOS BOSQUES, 63 LOMAS,

TECAMACHALO -10

EDO DE MEXICO,

MEXICO.

3.

NO FILE.

EZ IMPDET.?

ORIG. N SHEPANEK SA/DO 1542 COORD OLC INFO C/LA/STB STURBITTS

AUTH: AC/LA/MGSB (LEHMAN): REL: AC/LA (LAUDER); CL BY 029163.

END OF MESSAGE

SEGRET

19

---

