# docid-32340943

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10336

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-22

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

02/10/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

IID, ASSOC, B/F INT, PUBLIC RELATIONS, GOVERNMENT OF

ISRAEL, IMMIGRATION, ASYLUM, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1 ..

DocId: 32340943

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F

Kennedy

Assassination Records 'Collection Act of 19p2-

DATE: (H2y-.17-20367

SECRET

FBI

Date:

2/10/59

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

(d4 156 2107 Hote).

Mr. Tolson"

Mr. Belmont

Mr. DeLoach. My

Mr. McGuire

Mr. Mohi

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter_

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy-

Via

"Prioriey or Method of Mailing) il-594

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

Classifich

Declassi

FROM:

SAC,

WFO (105-26269)

(JFK)

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

RECA 58*

IS - ISRAEL

Enclosed herewith are eight copies of a letterhead

memo dated and captioned as above.

The source of the information is [ur 568-s*.]6)

For the Bureau's info, it could not be determined

what business is being transacted with Cubans of interest

to the Israeli Ministry of Defenselexcept possibly the (S)

supply of arms.

It would appear that since DAVIDSON has

indicated he would be going to immigration authorities

concerning an asylum problem, DAVIDSON may be dealing with

BATISTA's sympathizers.

The memo was classified "Confidential" since it

tends to reflect FBI investigative interest in foreign

diplomatic officials and since data reported could reason-

ably result in identification of a confidential intormant

of continuing value and

compromise future effectiveness

thereof.

2-3-98

ENCLOSUR

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSA

13/

- Bureau (Encls. 8)

2

- WFO

DECLASSIFY ON: 26X1, La

(1 - 97-1017 - Cuban Political

(JEK)

Activities) REC- 58 2-14223-

22

MPC: blb

(5)

4?!.

AIRTEL

216130

HEML SHOWD

20 FEB 25 1959

- We

DING/GISE

66 MAR 3

F148

1959

nort

SECRET

Approved:

2ed. Boardian

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

M

Per

2-1423

DocId: 32340943 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGATION

SECHEA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECIACCISO

ATION AND/OR,

RELEASE SE

JA IMFORMATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIRSD

HEREIN IS UNOLASSICTED

BADEFT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

February 10, 1959

11-14294

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

Declassify oil:

DARR

On February 9, 1959, an informant;

who has

furnished reliable information in the past, reported

that I. Irving Davidson, a Washington, D. C. public

relations counsel and a

registered agent for the

Government of Israel, is presently in Florida.

Informant advised that Da

vidson, who is in

frequent contact with both Avraham monconomic

Co the said one won to coming to vashington (

on February 11 or 12,

where he would be in contact with representatives of the

SLA/KSA

According to the informant,

Davidson was

scheduled to meet with some unidentified Cubans whom

he referred to as "my friends," presumably in Florida,

on the night of February 9, 1959.

On the morning of

February 10, 1959,

Davidson was to take the Cubans to

immigration

authorities in Florida in connection with

an asylum problem.

Davidson reported that everything

was being worked out, however,

those persons (the

Cubans) were not allowed to leave the jurisdiction

until certain details are completed.

Davidson

referred to it as being similar to the Hungarian situ-

ation. Davidson has indicated he has talked to these

people

tong lines known

but advised it was

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/S

JFK)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X. /

not something you could "push down their throats" in a

moment

Davidson has further reported that these people

(the Cubans) would rather do business with the Israelis)

but apparently these people are being

contacted by other &

- AGENCY 051(0C.)

REQ. REC'D

DAJE FORW. 221-21-59

REA READONI, CiA (onglitON-MONTDONTTAI

HOW FORW. 0 - 14N

-BY L

DATE FORW. 2-11-52

- ElM/ata

SECRET

BY

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISSEMINATION.

-1105-22

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32340943

Page 3

---

