# docid-32307084

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/5/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10224

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-2ND NR 7

Released under the John

F. kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/09/1961

3

MR, ASSOC, MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO,

ACA, PLAN, FLIGHTS, SUPPLIES, GUERILLA FORCES, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

HH 54046

DocId: 32307084

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Mr. Tolson

FD-36 (ROv. 12-13-56)

Mr. Belmonk

Mr. Mohr

Mr.

Mr.

Callahan

F BI

Air.

Contess

Dete

AFPROPRT

Mr.

Evang

TES

Malone...

AND 33

Date:

6/9/61

Transmit the followingsine

CONF

sIr.

Rosen--

Sullival

Mr.

Tavel.

215 98 AT

-Lype in plain text or code)

AIRIE

+13 vS 68-1 me

(Priority or. Method

waiting

VesR

• Mr. Ingram.

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

SP& MAC

DIRECTOR, FBI

109-5340

12/4/85 5Р6

Classified by

FRONT TAL

SAC, WO: (105-29955)

Declassify. on: OMBR

Мбаві

ASTRO ACTIVILILO

15 INVORSICS OR ORIGIN - MIAMI

placecon

105-93704 map

Internal Security

4374 WATC)

For info of Bureau and Miani,

DONALD BOLTING on 6/8/61 that he met wit

the anti CAStRo organization known as the lovinento anonside

Del lueblo (Mar) on 6/5161 Kat RAY'g

During. the meeting, RaY

confidence and revealed a plan

whereby if

the U.S. Governient

Tould give ii sanction

veckly flights to

the Cuban Eastern shore

Oriente Province, would be made for

the purpose of

supplying

guerrilla forces righting Castro.

The supplies would

lalso reach

the hands of the Cuban underground which woule

coordinating

efioris with guerrilla forces against CASTRO

RAY requested during this neeting

informant's (4)

technical knowledge concerning

the type of aircraft to be used

such a

nission, the cost oi

such an operation,

the maintanenced. i

cost of aircraft, cic.

MY requested the informant

become the one responsible

for setting up and actually participatins

in this plan because

of RAy's confidence inlthe informant

It is noted that informant &

is alformer Cuban Air Force pilot With approximately 20 years (67

respect to une above

caccept this

girl and has a family of three children residingXin the Washington

However,

the informant suggested that Ray consider either e

Blureau

197-45

Miani

(105-1742) - (RI1)

2M/:

NOT

BACORED

-

DE/bm

- 134(Ea53 Sub ATE)/c: Sulluanos

25 JUN 15 196/50 JUN 16

(6)

.. c. Wick

Approved:

55 JUN 21 feel Agent in COCINFIDEA

JUN 16 1961

Sent

AN INFORM ETON CONTATI

HEREIN IS UNCLASS

SELOWN®

00Wt26

71

NW 54046 DooId: 32307084

Page 2

---

## Page 3

WFO: 105-29955

CONFIDENTIAL

piano paven or bAsion annat, both forner Captains and Hots

in the Cuban Air Force.

may accepted the

suggestion but

advisor

At the conclusion of the neeting, RAY advised the c

infomant that he plarned to present this program of activity

the United states Government who were no

identifiedio the informant.

The informant was of the opinion &

ine intormant stated that he helieves he is the onlyCL

ne who has seen made aware of Ray's planand for this reason wri

is not incorporating the above intormation into a loin sultaule

for dissemination because it would compromise the informant. CC

The informant stated he would maintain contact with RAY work CL

will be returning to

his hone in Miamirand will keep WrO advised

of all pertinent developments in this matter? (#/(4)

-2-

NW 54046 DooId: 32307084

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAE

Domestic Intelligence Division

INFORMATIVE NOTE

E) Date June 10, 1961

AV (1161)s Kis former Cuban'&)

Military

Attache who has furnished

reliable data in the past. Since he

believes he is only person aware of (4

Manolo Ray's plan and since plan is

forsamina son or teached data no.

to avoid compromising valuable.

source. Matter will be closely followed

and upon receipt of information from

other sources

indicating plan may be

taking

shape

appropriate agencies will

be advised.

IRV: fag

121/98

DECLASSIFY ONA25%

ALL INFORWATTON CONTATNED

HEREINES UNOCASSIRTED

WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

205 9 8

CONFIDE

05 RmB/ILSR

JFK

5-23- 94(JFIC

Sp 8 maclusk

Classified by Sp 8/B3x/Gel

(JC)

Declassify on: OADR

111 4/8/

TINE

74 54046

DooId: 32307084

Page 4

---

