# docid-32144950

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10075-10088

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-1639-3917

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CLEMENTS. MANNING C.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/17/1964

-

PAGES: 238

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 44-24016-966

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

03/11/1996

Redact

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) :

Case#:NW 54463 Date: 10-12-2017

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

REPORT, TABLE OF CONTENTS ON PAGE i, INDEX ON PAGE a-i

WH 54463 DocId:32144950 Page 1

---

## Page 2

PDaS (Re 21-80)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PRRPORTINO OFFICE

DALLAS

TILE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

JACK L. RUBY, aka;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka - VICTIM

(Deceased)

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/17/64

12/5/63 - 1/15/64

***SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS

CHARACTER OF CASE

CR

ТУРКО ВУ

LAC

REFERENCES:

Reports of SA MANNING C. CLEMENTS dated 11/30/63; 12/6/63; 12/11/63;

12/14/63; 12/18/63; 12/19/63; 12/21/63; 12/31/63 and 1/8/64 at Dallas.

Report of SA STUART J. CAMERON dated 12/3/63 at Albuquerque.

-P-

LEADS:

All leads are being set out by telephone and teletype and are

not repeated herein.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

No dissemination will be made outside the Bureau except on

Bureau instructions.

Overlap in period with periods of prior reports is occasioned

by efforts to correlate information properly and completely.

APPROVEO

COPIES MADE:

5 Bureau (44-24016)

Te e:"+1105 144-26387

lipig

SPREALAGEN

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES MELOW

441639-139171

sticize d

Irist

-23-6x

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REFORT

ADENCY...

REQUEST HEED.

DATE FWD....

нож rWD.

0Y..

tel bat 2 capies

dictate 5-17-615

HH 54463 DocId:32144950

- Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 44-1639

HRD: LAC

With' reference to the name "JOHN ROGERS, Post Office'

Box 10707"

, with no further identifying data, appearing on a

note pad belonging to JACK RUBY,

Mr. L. ALLEN MADDOX, clerk in

the office of the U. S. Post Office Inspectors, Room

500. 0. 5.

Terminal Building, 207 South Houston Street, Dallas,

advisec

SA HAROLD R. DOBSON on January 10, 1964, that there

is no post

office box numbered 10707 in the Dallas, Texas, Metropolitan

area.. Post office box numbers in that area jump from 10704 to

10715. He suggested that the Fort Worth, Texas, Post Office

might possibly have a box number 10707.

The information from the records of the Bank of Dallas

pertaining to the joint savings account and safety deposit box

of EVA GRANT and JACK RUBY was furnished to SA JAMES S. WEIR by

BETTY CALVERT, Assistant Cashier, Bank of Dallas.

On December 26,

1963, LA 4135-C advised SA HOMER E.

YOUNG that

"Stripper SIRI" is SIRI PUTNAM, who is presently

engaged at "The Follies Theater", Los Angeles, California.

On January 3, 1964, LEON CORNMAN, PCI, business agent,

American Guild of Variety Artists, New Orleans, Louisiana, was

contacted by SA ALVIN J. ZIMMERMAN in an attempt to determine

the identity of KITTY (last name unknown), who is reported by

Dallas stripper CANDY CANE to have been associated with JACK RUBY.

CORNMAN advised that the only stripper he knew by the name of

KITTY who worked in New Orleans was KITTY RAVILLE. He advised

RAVILLE committed suicide in New Orleans in August or September

1963.

CORNMAN stated his records indicate one VIVIAN MELLINGER,

known as KITTY DeVILLE, a stripper, paid union dues at New

Orleans August 17, 1963, but he does not believe she is currentl

working in New Orleans and does not know her present whereabouts.

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO with whom an interview is reported

here-in is subject of a Dallas Anti-Racketeering file. CIVELLO was

....

in attendance at the Appalachin Meeting.

COVER PAGE

HH 54463 DocId: 32144950

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-302 (Rov. 3-3-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dato -

1/15/64

On January 14, 1964, DL 91-C advised SA ALFRED

D. NEALY that ROY KIMES (ROY EUGENE KIMES, FBI #228 639,

a well-known Texas and Oklahoma police character, now

deceased) brought JACK RUBY to his home at Farmersville,

He stated that KIMES was trying to buy a motel

located north of Durant, Oklahoma, and was trying to

promote RUBY into financing the purchase of this motel

for him. Informant stated that he accompanied KIMES and

RUBY to Colbert, Oklahoma, where they let him out and on

their return picked him up and

returned to Farmersville.

He stated that this was the only contact he had with

JACK RUBY. Informant stated that this incident was from

six to seven months after KIMES had been released from

the Texas State Penitentiary and approximately four

years ago:

Informant advised that he did not know LEE

HARVEY OSWALD.

COVER PAGE

I

/14/64

at

by:

Special Agant,

This document containe nelthet recommendatione nor conclubione

mi say felt contese nopedelon not ed lucide you ey. " la the property of the FBl

and if loanedirg,

---

