# docid-32330175

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI>

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90089-10210

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-344127-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO :

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1959

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

V9.1

DocId: 32330175

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Beleased witer the. John

F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2187 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

I- Nasca

9/84

lass!

Reclassify

SPS MAC

1274506

PADE

SAQ, Miant

September 4, 3959

Director, FBI (209-584)

AST'I-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVIL TES

I8 - 0064

819181

tunes

I EXI. BY SPIBIELEM

REASON-FCIM

4.2

_ DATE DE TEVIEW

enclosed is e copy of a report classified

"Secres" rectoed from a confidential source abroad

August 25, 1959.

The confidential source cbroad advised

report woo received fron its Janaica Office and

moted the t sure to report has leen made

Aland will aduise unether lt has recclued any

indi cotton

• that the Directorto Revoluolonario has roulved

activities in liant, and whether the Mosferrers!

have any connection with the orgonization as indloated

in: the enclosed report.

Want will also aduise whether

Merolay

uno has been furnishing information to your office;

has furnished any infornation concerning the meting held

on July 18, 1959

enclosure.

mentloned in paragrogh sta of the

Mient will identify senor Duend, whe la

mentionad in this paragraph. (S

mant will cleo identify the twe individuala

montioned in paragraph eight.

In the event any of the

information in the enclosed report is disseminated outaide

the Bureau,

10

protect the sources

Miant is also requested to subnit its comments

and obaervatione concerning the information contoined in

enclosed report.

Enclosure

(7)

1/i

x/i

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINED

NOT RECORDED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT 199 SEP 10 1959

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

109-480 (Cuban Revolutionary Activities)

100-344127 (Rolando Masferrer)

97-3400 (DR)

¡Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

McGuire

Mohr -

Parsons

Rosen

T'amn

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Teleg

To a SEP 14 1959

Gandy -

MAIL: ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32330175 Page 2

---

