# docid-32424905

## Page 1

Date :

08/04/98

Page

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JCS

202-10001-10174

FOIA SERIES

: DOC 175

Released under the John

as Keshnation Records

collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54214 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: OSD

FROM

TO

TITLE : DEFENSE SUPPORT OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE

: 03/14/62

PAGES

: 1.

SUBJECTS

:MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.

of document reviewed by CIA,

State, OSD.

Remainder

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) 58x5

MAR

2016

DATE EXEMPTED:

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 31102L203>

OKAYTURELEASE AS RIDDACTED W/CIA CONCUERENE

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214 DocId:32424905 Page

1

---

## Page 2

• /

The Deparment ol state nas rio onection to the

i i release d declassication of this documen Reul

under the provisioits of the JFK Assassination Records

ollection Act pt 1992 (PL102-54

Reviewed on

30/98 M7

(115

SISITIE

MEIORANDUM FOR DICK HELMS/EILL HARVEY

Froin: Brig. Gen. Lansdale

Subject: Iefense Support, Operation liongoose

In compliance with the desired of Secretary Sicilamara, ai

the special Group meeting 13 March, I have tas.ed General Girl:

with:

supply t

Preparing an assessment of the rist involved lia air c-

sagiozg over Cuba.

Readying to USAE sanitized aircralt and "sheep-dipped"

crewman air re-supply missions, within two weeis, as a ioriporary

incasure and under acceptable cover.

3: Assisting ClA with its maritimo needs, to include hel?

in oblaining i I-type coats from foreign sources, readying "drees-

dipped" crois and equipment as deemed necessary, and provido

operational concepts on disIu

or destroying Cuban capability

of inaritine coasial patrols.

In order to accouplici

these tasis effectively, General Jiais

must rely on Chi for firm details ci Cla require anis.

verball; to ir, tarvey soda:, dis is veing handlei as a priori.;

Inailor in Defense, and Chi is expected lo celine its nueds as

cisalj and in as much deiail ag possiule,

in order to be mait tirre

[clutco sappori actions to la co..aloted in tie do tale clin it ia

suggesied lat General Craig's dull and lo. Margey's trail Cinde:;

OSSi NO OBVECTION

concemed with those nocds ieet at the carlicet coment cach tiri

can ie a big holy to the odier.

DISALDFOISR) 5 ITS 104

11-H0R-155

1,2

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR General Graiat

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SAA

-23. June98mbh

EXCLUDED PROM. GDS

Doc#175 1P:

i ':

HH 54214 DocId:32424905 Page 2

---

