# docid-32297554

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10219-10330

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1273

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/13/1964

4

ABR, ASSOC, EMP, POLIT, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, NOTE

y91

DocId: 32297554

202

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jphn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

"i

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 1 3 1964

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. Detrack

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale-

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

•Miss Gandy-

FBI PHILA

7:16 PM EDST

URGENT 8-13-64 FJS

• TO:

DIRECTOR /92-27171

FROM:

PHILA. 192-444/

Anti-racketeering

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA; AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

SOURCE ADVISED THIS DATE BRUNO WAS ABSENT FROM PHILA.

ENTIRE DAY, EIGHT TWELVE, LAST.

SOURCE MET WITH BRUNO AND JOSEPH IANIISKY, AKA. MICKEY,

TODAY• TANITSKY ASKED BRUNO IF HE COULD OBTAIN EMPLOYMENT FOR

ONE PETE FOX AT SANDS HOTEL, LAS VEGAS, NEV. FOX, ACCORDING TO

TANIISKY, IS NOW EMPLOYED AT THUNDERBIRD HOTEL, AND WANTS

TO SWITCH EMPLOYMENT BECAUSE HE BELIEVES THUNDERBIRD WILL

QUOTE FOLD UNQUETE. BRUNO SAID HE COULD NOT TELEPHONE LAS VEGAS

BECAUSE ALL LAS VEGAS PHONES ARE TAPPED; BUT IF HE GOES TO

NEW YORK, HE WILL SEE WHAI HE CAN DO FOR FOX.

BRUNO ALSO MET WITH FRANK SANNINI AND FRANK NICOLETTI

TODAY, AND TOLD THEM GOVERNMENT HAS CONVICTED PERSON IN NEW

YORK, WHOM BRUNO DESCRIBED AS ITALIAN, SIXTY SEVEN YEARS OLD,

AND THE

Quart

FIRST MATE TO JOE PROFACI WHEN

BIG BOAT UNQUOPE.

END PAGE..ONE

letter to shite use.

HE WAS CAPTAIN OF THE

92-721

-1273

4/18\64

EX-114

i- PEC.

34

KAL: Cac

Memo can to Relimit 20,905

14 AUG 28 1964

DocId: 32297554 Page 2

---

