# docid-32389615

## Page 1

Date: 02/02/05

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10404-10316

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

•Case#:NU 53320 Date:

06-26-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

: WALLACE B. ROWTON

MEMO: SUBJECT - WALLACE B. ROWTON MEETING WITH LIRING/3

05/26/1967

2

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

LIRING

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

SECRET

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/12/04

JFK-RH02 : F044: 20040323-1063693

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10404-10316

HW 53320

DocId: 32389615

Page 1

---

## Page 2

From

26 ay; 1967

Wallace B. Rowton Meeting with LIRING/3

SERRE SAPUR

1. Rowton net with LIRING/3 at the safehouse from 1800 until about 1930

on 25 May, 1967. LIRING/3 reported that as yet he had not beard from Garcia

and would stand by for the next two days in the hope that Garcia would re-

appear at his hone. LIRING/3 agreed to Invite Garcia, once he did appear,

to coffee or lunch at a restaurant on 29 or 30 May so that Rowton could get

a look at him. LIRING/3 also reported that LIRING/4 had been working part-

time, In the mornings, at the Consulate, and that her rapport with the local

staff was improving. Rowton suggested that 1t might be the right time to give

IIRING/4 some compensation for her efforts. LIRING/3 agreed and promised to

ask LIRING/4 to be at the safehouse at 1000 on 2? May, so that Rowton could

again talk privately with her and give her the money (Rowton suggested 500

pesos, and LIRING/3 agreed that this would be adequate).

2. LIRING/3 reported that IIRING/4's resumption of contact had begun to pay

off better than he had thought possible. He explained that she had found an

opportunity on the afternoon of 23 May to chat with Abelardo Curbedo and had

returned hone with some Interesting information concerning the Cuban attitude

toward IIRIIG/3 himself. According to LIRING/3, LIRING/4 said that Curbelo

told her that he was happy that she had finally come back in close contact wit:

the Consulate. In commenting on LIRING/3, Curbelo in à more or less joking way

stated that LIRING/4 nust understand that the "revolution 1s surrounded by

provocations" and that many persons on the outside, such as LIRING/3, have be-

come innocent victins of organizations such as WOFACTY, that are constantly

sending provocations against the revolution. Curbelo stressed that he did not

feel that LIRING/3 fell into that category, but LIRIliG/4 must understand the

precautions that have to be taken by the revolution. He concluded that he

hoped LIRING/3 would not taxe offense (tomarlo a mal) and would feel free to

3. LIRING/3 then stated that he was doing his best to keep active certain

contacts he had had in the past that were on the periphery of the official

Cuban circle. He mentioned specifically the case of Silvia and Horacio Durán

that then explained the background of his relationship with them. He related

that Silvia Durán worked as receptionist at the Consulate in 1963-64 and vas

on duty when Lee Harvey. Oswald applied for a visa. She had been l'ecomnendea

to the Cubans by Teresa Proenza, the Press Attaché from 1959 unt1l 1962. LI-

RING/3 described Teresa Proenza as-a Cuban Wer hugged about 52, a Lesbian,

and a member of the Cormunist lagtriof Cub wiress currently in jail in

SECRET/KAPA.

ITH 53320

DocId: 32389615 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7207

-SECRET KAPOR

Cuba as the result of a conviution for espionage ou schalf vi durAct. Li-

RING/3 recalled that during bis last visit to Havana, a friend of his in

the Ministry of Education, informed him of Teresa Proenza's present situation

and advised LIRINi/3, in the event he was asked, he deny that he had known

l'eresa Proenza or had had anything to do wita her. LIRING/3 continued that

just the other day Silvia Durán had telephoned bim to say bello and that be

bad visited her at ber home to renew his acquaintance. ( LIFEAT SAN-26(10.8)

reveals that at about 1245 on 22 Hay, 1967, LIRING/3 telephoned 15-78-11 and

asked for sra. Silvia. When (naid) informed him she not in, he asked for sr.

Horacio. When same negative reply given, he asked that they be advised that

LIRING/3 had called to say hello. SAN-26 (11.0) reveals an incoming call

fron Silvia Duran in which she asks how he obtained her number. He replies:

"At the Cuban Institute". She states that she is studying at some school and

at the moment is free to talk to LIRING/3. The latter replies that ke would

5o by to visit ber (Constituyentes 143, apt 3) 12 a lew ninutes.)

4. LIRING/3 continued that Silvia Duran Inforned bim that she had first met

Oswald when he applied for a visa and had gone out with him several times since

she liked him from the start. She admitted that she had sexual relations with

him but insisted that she bad no idea of his plans. "hen the news of the as-

sassination broke she stated that she was innediately taken into custodz by

the lexican police and interrogated thoroughly and beaten until she adnitted

that she had had an affair with Oswald. She added that ever since then she has

phone was tapped by the Mexican police, or, more probably by "OFACT, since

tapping was an expensive proposition and the Mexicans wouldn't be able to af-

ford it for so long a period.

5. Rowton counseled LIPING/3 egainst aay further contact with the Duráns on

the ground that it might put hin under sons sort of suspicion either in the

eyes of the Mexican police or the Cubans. He pointed out that little or nothin

was to be gained from such a contact.

5. IIRING/3 then produced, at Roiton's request, a sketch of the Consulate and

Embassy premises, copy of which is attached. LIRING/3 commented that to his

knowlodge Cereda did not have an office, at least not on the first floor. Big

other comments appoar on the sketch as reproduced oy kowton.

SECRET/KAPOK

HH

13320

DocId: 32389615 Page 3

---

