# docid-32330548

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90090-10211

HQ

115-2494-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MD

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/09/1970

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32330548

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote]

DATE: 11-11-2017

TO

FROI

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY

1962

EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-111

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Memorandum

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

:DIRECTOR, FBI (115-2494)

DATE:

9/9/70

LEGAT, MADRID (105-251) (P)

SUBJECT:

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, aka -

FUGITIVE

BOND DEFAULT

(00: Miami)

Dao (9) arms

ĐN2EN02

ADVIS2D 27

AND FIRED URICES

APPROPTIATE AGENCIES

DECEASSIPLED BYG-1 Gude.

ON 5-18-94

REASO

DATI

OF REVI

9-17-70

$1318!

BY SPA JeMI

DMS

II,

1-2.4.2

919/2000

Re Miami airtel and LiMs dated 1/2/70 pertaining

to subject and JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

Ón 7/21/70 copies of referenced LHMs: were fur=

nished to the Alto Estado Mayor (Spanish High General

Staff - HGS), Madrid, Spain, and to the Direccion General

de Seguridad

(Directorate General of Security - DGS),

Spanish National Police, Madrid, with the request that

they conduct the necessary investigation in Spain

verify subject's presence in their country. guito

On 8/31/70 the DGS advised that a check of their

criminal and fingerprint records proved negative regarding

subject and CONSTANZO PALAU. No information has beer

uncovered to show that

either subject or CONSTANZO PALAU

has entered Spain.

In addition to the above data, the DGS furnished

a copy of an internal report in the Spanish language con-

taining further information, some of which was obtained

from Cuban exiles in Spain.

the data contained in this report,

subject may possibly be

in El Salvador, Haiti or Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

In the event any portion of this report is disseminated,

it should be

Classified "CONFIDENTIÄL" and the source

Bureau requested to have the report translated

and furnish the results of translation to Miami.

Miami, y

•Bureau (Enc.

2J ENGROSURE

SI-1208 REC-40/15-

XEROX

2494.

1a5 Foreign

Liaison

• Desk)

SER

25

1 - Madrid

Miam 226

115-249 00X

22 SEP

N.10

DORIE AC

RETAINED IN LAB

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly On He Payroll Savings PlanN! *

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

1970

1R19

5010-108-02

DocId: 32330548

Page

---

## Page 3

Released under the Fol F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (1 USe 2107 Hotey.

MAD 105-251

upon receipt of the translation, may wish to consider setting

out leads for Legat, Mexico, in view of data that subject may

be in El Salvador and other countries cited previously.XU)

Copies of referenced LHMs are being furnished the

DGS (Portugal) this date, with the request that inquirles be

made to determine if subject and/or CONSTANZO PALAU may be ir

their country. AW

On 9/9/70 the Alto Estado Mayor (Spanish High

General Staff - HGS), Madrid, advised that a recheck of the

original information

regarding subject reveals that subject.

was expected to arrive in Spain in the immediate future.

information has been developed, however, to verify his arrival

or presence in Spain.

HGS inquiries continue and we will be

aavised regarding the results of further efforts to locate

As additional information is received, Bureau and

Miami will be advised.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

- 2=

2421401400

CONCIDENTA

DocId: 32330548

Page 3

---

