# docid-32292593

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10369

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1206

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

01/16/1968

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

GAL, HEALTH, NERVOUS BREAKDOWN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : - Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292593

464

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FBI CHICAGO

JAN 1 6 1968

748PM DEFERRED 1-15-58 RMW

TO DIRECTOR (92-3982)

FROM CHICAGO (92-373)

TELETYPE

GUS

ALEX,

Anti-racketeering

Ocases 0s Origia

CHICAGO.

Mr. Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conradh

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rose

Mr. Sullivan

• Mr. Tavel

All. Trotter

Tele. Room!!

Aliss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

CE SEVEN ZERO ONE SIX - PE, WHOSE IDENTITY AS LEADER OF SEANARI

ORGANIZED CRIME IN CHICAGO KNOWN TO BUREAU, ADVISED JAN SIXTEEN INFO

THAT MEMBERS OF GUS ALEX GROUP HAVE HAD MANY PROBLEMS SINCE

JUST PRIOR TO CHRISTMAS WHEN GUS ALEX WENT ON SKIING TRIP OUTSIDE

CHICAGO AREA FROM WHICH HE HAS NOT YET RETURNED.

PC STATED ALEX JUST PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE SUFFERED RELAPSE

INTO HIS HIGHLY NERVOUS STATE AND WAS ADVISED BY PHYSICIANS HE WAS

"CLOSE TO ANOTHER NERVOUS BREAKDOWN". PC ALLUDED TO FACT THAT ALEX SUFFI

NERVOUS BREAKDOWN IN WINTER OF NINETEEN FIFTY NINE-SIXTY AND WAS CONFINED

TO RESI HOME IN CONNECTICUI FOR SEVERAL MONTHS. PC INDICATED PHYSICIANS

PRESCRIBED SLEEPING AND TRANQUILLIZING PILLS AND ORDERED ALEX TO

"GET AWAY FROM HIS PROBLEMS" BY TRAVELLING.

NOTED THAT SOURCES IN ALEX'S APARTMENT BUILDING CONFIRM FACT

ALEX HAS NOT BEEN THERE SINCE PRIOR TO CHRISTMAS AND THAT SUZANNE

FUEGER, ALEX'S PARAMOUR WHO LIVES IN SAME-BUILDING, HAS BEEN ABSENT

END PAGE ONE

92-318211806

& JAN 17 1968

XEROX

JAN 1968

DocId: 32292593 Page 2

---

