# docid-32309147

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10274

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-897.

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

10/04/1962

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32309147 Page 1

499

---

## Page 2

12-011

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

• Radio

ex Teletype

Mr.

Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Nir. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Comrad

ir.

• Rosen.

Ir. Sublivan

fir. Tavel

fr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

10-4-62

12:40 PM-

JLS

JO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO: 032105

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6486 - C: ADVISED.

, OCTOBER 2 LAST THAT

DOMINIC BLASI RECEIVED SEVERAL CALLS IN WHICH UNIDENTIFIED

CALLER ADVISED BLASI "ENVELOPES WERE READY". UPON EACH

INSTANCE, BLASI MADE ARRANGEMENTS TO MEET INDIVIDUAL TO

COLLECT ENVELOPE, INDICATING THAT BLASI, IN ABSENCE OF

GIANCANA, MAKES MONTHLY COLLECTIONS. ACCARDO, JACK CERONE,

AND BERNARD GLICKMAN APPEARED FOR SHORT TIME IN VICINITY

OF SOURCE, PARTICIPATED IN CARD GAME. INDICATES POSSIBILITY

THAT CERONE

AND OR ACCARDO ARE RECIPIENTS OF SOME OF THE

ENVELOPES.

PCI

ADVISED THAT SAM ENGLISH DESIRES TO

PLACE SLOT MACHINES IN ELK LODGE, BERWYN OF WHICH INFORMANT .

IS EXALTED RULER. INFORMANT INTENDS TO CARRY THROUGH ON

THIS AND KEEP ACCURATE RECORDS OF AMOUNTS DISBURSED TO

ENGLISH BROTHERS FROM THIS ENTERPRISE. W)

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED: 1:45 PM

JMR

ĐCh09

PREGNINED

92-3171-897

* OCT 5 1962

P.

OTHER 4

f the intelligence contaired in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl;

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45792 DocId: 32309147 Page 2

---

