# docid-32335471

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10029

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: RACHNER

TO : FLEMISTER

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 04/08/1975

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

ALADIN M AL-TAYYAR

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335471

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GENAREG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

Memorardum

Mr. H.C. Flemiste

DATE:

FROM

B.C. Rachner

SUBJECT

ALADDIN M.

AL-TAYYAR

INTERNAL SECURITY - IRAQ

IRAQ MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS

INTERNAL SECURITY - IRAQ

4/8/75

SECRET

1-5:95

Classifled by 5668 SLD KSR

Declassity Of:

GABR

JFK)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

•Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan, & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Cou

(5)

EIN 15 UNCLASSIFIE:

WHERE SHOWN

Liaison was requested to contact the respective

Headquarters of the U. S. Customs Service (USCS) and the

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) to determine

the status of any

current investigation concerning the

following organizations and individuals, which might relate

to the investigation of captioned subject.

57APR -1-8 1975

Military Armament Corporation operated by George

Salesky and Rosser Scott Reeves, III

Defense Systems operated by Mitchell Werbell, III,

and MitchellyWerbell,

American/international Corporation operated by

/charlesy Goff

10

REC-53(5) 105-263713

On 3/31/75 Mr. Elliot Anderson,

Chef, Liaison

Division,

ATF, advised

that ATF Headquarters had nothing

in its files other than information furnished by the FBI.

Anderson confided that ATF field divisions act somewhat

autonomously of ATF Headquarters in conducting investiga-

tions and suggested that the FBI coordinate its investi-

gations concerning Military Armament Corporation and its

officers and Defense Systems and its officers with ATT,

Atlanta, and concerning the American International Corpora

tion and its officers with ATF,

Salt Lake City.

assured that these offices would undoubtedly have the

AnderSPR 10 1975

most complete records of investigations in connection m

with the above cases.

BCR: tdp (4)

CONTINUED - OVER

1 - Mr. Putman

(Hampton)

- Mr. Flemister

- Mr. Rachner

2-5-28

T5G/A14

12. Take weep OLOneS

for revicw at FDIQ by

FS0A72-16-72F09U35901

(Soo Dazilo #Ca-127900)

APR 14 1975

DocId: 32335471

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. H.C. Flemister, Jr.

RE:

ALADDIN M. AL-TAYYAR;

IRAQ MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS

INTERNAL SECURITY - IRAQ

(5)

SECRET

On 4/4/75 Mr. Al Walls, Office of Investigations,

USCS, advised that all current investigation relating to

the organizations and individuals named is being coordinated

by the Customs office in New York City.. Walls suggested

that Martin White, Chief of Criminal Investigations in

the New York Customs Office, be contacted for the purpose

of coordinating FBI and Customs investigations relating

to the above organizations and individuals. Walls stated

it was his understanding that the FBI in New York had

been closely coordinating investigations

concerning the

above

matters

with the New York Customs Office.

ACTION:

For information.

Route

to CI-3 Section for

consideration and any further action

warranted.

=2.

SECRET

DocId: 32335471 Page 3

---

