# docid-32294663

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10439

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-39-183

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/05/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GAMBLING ACT, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294663

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Vipte).

DATE: A0V.42-3967

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

8/5/60

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-246)

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

AR

Remy airtel, 7/30/60, covering re-organization of personnel in

the MANNARINO controlled gambling casino, New Kensington, Pa.

A PCI, who is close to the activities of the MANNARINO gambling

syndicate, on 8/4/60 advised that approximately one week ago

Pittsburgh National Top Hoodlum SAM MANNARINO destroyed several lA.

hundred multiple coin pin ball machines at the Ken Iron and Steel

Co. and had them buried on his property adjoining the family

drive-in theater in nearby lower Burrell Township owned by his

brother, Pittsburgh National Top Hoodlum GABRIEL MANNARINO.

PA

According to the informant, SAM MANNARINO ordered his machines

destroyed to avoid the possibility of a raid on his warehouse

the PSP.

As a matter of info, the AG of Pennsylvania recently declared

multiple cointpin ball machines illegal.

This ruling was followed

by a series of raids by the PSP in which literally thousands

of machines were confiscated.

The State Supreme Court recently

apheld the AG ruling and on 8/4/60 the PSP publicly burned

hundreds of such machines near Pittsburgh.

No new cases opened ordreferred to other agencies.

Bureau

Pittsburgh

(1-137-1017)

(1-92-228)

Ne E

RGD/ gb

(7)

REC 41

162-9-39-183

118

ANG. 6 1960

58 AUS

1 1409

Approved:

Sent

Special Ägent in Charge

DocId: 32294663 Page 2

---

