# docid-32284940

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10134-10216

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

67-494012-73

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/15/1958

JAMES P. HOSTY JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

Released under the Johr

F. Kenneds

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Caset:WH 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

11

DocId: 32284940

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. ISA

ics

Office Memorandum • UNITED TES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 5/15/58

SAC, DALLAS (67-5594)

SUBJECT:

JAMES P

HOSTY, JR.

SPECIAL AGENT

RECOMMENDATION FOR COMMENDATION

During the fall of 1957, an organization calling itself "Soldiers

of the Flaming Sword

began operation in the Dallas area.

SA

HOSTY determined through investigation that this organization

was actually a Klan organization.

It has subsequently been

determined that this organization was in fact the Texas branch

of the U. S. Klans,

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan. At the time

this Klan organization was organized, the Dallas schools hao

been ordered by the Federal Courts to integrate during January,

1958.

Therefore, it became imperative that coveragevin this

Klan organization be developed promptly in order

gan ration be devel

that this

office might be advised of the activities of the

Ku Klux Klan

in this area.

SA HOSTY made contact with an individual residing In the

Pleasant Grove area of Dallas, who has since bee

Through the superb guidance proved b

direction of sA Hosty, this informant became

a member of the

Rylie Branch of the Klan.

The Rylie Klavern has split into

two factions and at present DL-23-s is submitting information

concerning both of these organizations, inasmuch as he has

been designated by the dissident group to attend meetings of

the regular Rylie group.

Thus, this informant serves

in ra:

dual capacity and reports on two Klan groups.

= 3

i...

Therefore, the Bureau is requested to issue a letter commending

SA HOSTY for his performance, leadership and guidance sin

placing this individual into the Klan organization promptly,

therefore making available information concerning the plans of

the Klan in this area.

Bureau

Dallas

ELB: hmd

(3)

Jeck Kaudling Klan

gam залов!

rareer

RECORDED - 144

Sea.

497079-73

wencd

A 8 MAY 28 1958

-28

WVA

I

A024

PERS.

1950

74 54464

DooId: 32284940

Page 2

---

