# docid-32294755

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10214-10031

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 26-425045-5

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FUELLING, ORRIN F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/08/1971

PAGES: 17

SUBJECTS :

GILLENWATER, JAMES PAUL, SENTENCED, TX, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294755

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

EP 26-19165

JOHN CAESAR CROSSI Or JACK LESLIE BOWEN

stated that he was not inclined

at this time to say

anything further concerning the 1969 Nercury or of

Caveman auto home or oi anything else. He pointed out

that the same situation"

exists at this time as it did

when he was at the Montessa Detention Center in Albuquerque

New kexico, in the middle part of May, 1970, when he received

a telephone call from some man who represented hinsoir

às being an insurance

agent and

Inquiring if ha had

ever borrowed a Cavenan auto hone in Oregon and if he

knew its present whereabouts

He pointed out that be.

told

this man making

the telephone inquiry the sane thing

that applies now that anything concerning these natters

would have to be taken up with his Attorney LAVRENCE

BUCINILLER Of Albuquerque, New Nexicos Who had been

appointed to represent him in his conviction and case

handled there.

-JACK LESLIE BOWEN, Who states his true pane is

JOHN CAESAR GROSSI, pointed

out that fron Novembor of

1968 to Februarys

1569, he operated

as an informant

for the FEl at Baltimore, Maryland, and Bullelo, New York.

He pointed out that he nas able to secure intormation

on crininal activities

of highly placed hoodluns.

Le pointed out that he bod brought this to the strention

of the FBI upon his recent arrest and conviction of

Dyer Act charges in an effort do obtain sone type of

Jendency on his bahali

and it was apparent that nothing

cculd be cone or was done to alter his prosecution.

CRoSsi noted that under the "A2" sentence that be can

come bofore the Parole Board for a hearing scheduled

sonetime in August of 1970.

10

DocId: 32294755 Page 2

---

