# docid-32288379

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10155

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-200

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/04/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ACT, GAMBLING, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC TTY, NOTE

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32288379

Page 1

157

---

## Page 2

3/4761

PLe

TELETYPE

URGENT

TO SAC CHICAGO (92-373)

REC- 88

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (92-3182)

200

ALEX, AXA.,

AR.

RE YOUR DAILY SUMMARY TELETYPE MAY FOUR

INSTANT WHICH CONTAINED MATERIAL FURNISHED BY CG SIX FOUR FOUR

TERSE DASM C CONCIRNING COMFISCATION OF FUNDS BY CG HOODLUMS

AND METHODS USED BY THEN TO/CONCEAL PERSONAL, FUNDS.: RECONTACT

INSONIANT AND ATTENT TO ASCERTAIN BASIS FOR THESE STATEUENTS

AND ANY SPECIFIC INTORMATION OR LEADS HE MAY POSSESS AS TO

LOCATION OF ANY CONCEALED FUNDS

FJS:rap

• (309

Biony

19%

FEDERAL BUREAU UF INVESTIGA/JON

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAY 4 1964(

TELETYPE Yo

COPINO DESTROKEN:

SO 8 MAY 24 1972

Illivan..

0om 30) :

MAIL ROOM [

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45679 DocId: 32288379

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

BILLIARD PARLOR AND RESTAURANT ON SOUTH STATE STREET. HE SAID

THAT AFTER A FAST COURTSHIP, HELEN WAS MARRIED TO ARGER, HOWEVER,

IN HIS OPINION THIS MARRIAGE WAS A MISTAKE AND ONLY LASTED FOR A SHORT

TIME WHEN HIS SISTER SECURED A DIVORCE FROM ARGER. HE STATED THAT HE

WOULD CONTACT HIS SISTER AND HAVE HER CONTACT THE FBI TO ARRANGE AN

INTERVIEW WITH HER. CONCERNING THE SPENDING HABITS OF ALEX AND OTHER

TOP HOODLUMS IN THE CHICAGO AREA CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED

THAT THEY SPEND VERY LITTLE OF THEIR OWN MONEY UNLESS IT IS ABSOLUTELY

NECESSARY. HE STATED THAT THEY PAY FOR NOTHING AND PREFER TO STEAL IT

OR MUSCLE SOMEONE OUT # OF ANYTHING THEY WANT. HE STATED THAT IT IS

KNOWN TO HIM THAT IN THE PAST THAT WHEN THEY ARE GOING TO KILL ONE OF

THEIR TOP ASSOCIATES, THEY INTEREST THIS TOP ASSOCIATE IN AN INVESTMENT

BY THIS MEANS THEY ARE ABLE TO UNCOVER ANY MONEY QUOTE STASHED AWAY

ENQUOTE BY THE ASSOCIATE, AND AFTER HE IS KILLED THEY CONFISCATE THE

MONEY. HE STATED THAT THIS IS NECESSARY SINCE ALEX AND OTHER TOP ..

HOODLUMS EITHER INVEST THEIR MONEY IN NAMES KNOWN ONLY TO THEM OR

PLACE IT IN A SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX UNDER DIFFERENT NAMES. HE STATED

THAT ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF MONEY TAKEN IN BY THE OUTFIT IN THE CHICAGO A

• IS PAID OUT FOR PROTECTION AND INFLUENCE. HE STATED THAT THE PROTECTI

END PAGE TWO

NW 45679 DocId: 32288379 Page 3

---

## Page 4

imant. is

Owner and asgociate

Chingơ hoodlums.

Chicago restaurant

numerous well known

200

OTHER 2, 4

NW 45679

DocId: 32288379

Page 4

---

