# docid-32304712

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10286-10342

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-618

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/20/1964

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/19/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32304712

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 210T Note).

STANDARD FORM NO. SA

Office Memorandum • UNITED STAYES GOVERNMENT

TO

Director, FBI

Legat, Rome

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

(92-6054)

DATE: April. 20, 1964

(92-80)

(P)

SUBJECT:

smel

ReBulet,

12-5-63, captioned as above, and New

*OOMAS teThe, ame Trang Ryan, 70 my Reptioned

Enclosed are five copies of a letterhead memo-

randum captioned "THOMAS EBOLI, aka Tommy Ryan,

Tommy Rye".

As the Bureau is aware, the Italian National

Police, in trying to develop information showing

possible ties between the Mafia in the United States

and Italy, is conducting investigation concerning

relatives, still residing in Italy, of individuals

mentioned

in reBulet.

In that connection, set forth in the enclosed

letterhead memorandum. is

the report of investigation

received from Dr. ARISTIDE MANOPULO, Central Bureau,

Criminal Division, Italian National Police, on

April 15, 1964, regarding THOMAS EBOLI.

REC- 34

СХ ної

92-6054-618

18 APR 23 1964

5- ENCLOSURE

is?

3

- Bureau (1 - Liaison Section)

(Enc. 5)

1 - Rome

92-80.

JCM: 0C

3ccene sento 5:

0-74/29/64/1.80

NYC

điợ)

(lect) enc

56 APR 301964

DocId:32304712 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE;: 11-14-2017

UN

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Washington, D. C.

• April 20, 1964

Tommyx

Ryan, Tommy

follows:

THOMAS EBOLI, also known as Tommy Rye, Tommy

Ryan, was born June 13, 1911, at Scisciano (Italy),

the son of LUIGI and MADDALENA MADDALONI.

The

family of EBOLI is now completely extinct.

MARIA MADDALONI, a sister of EBOLI's wife,

currently lives in Scisciano.

She is married

to PASQUALE ALVINO, SOn Of SALVATORE, born in

1902, an invalid who was formerly a carpenter.

SALVATORE ALVINO, age 36, a son of MARIA

MADDALONI, also a carpenter, is

not known to

have any criminal record.

There is no indication that the above persons

although

from America shortly after the war.

Further,

there is no indication that EBOLI

has any contact

with

any other persons

in Italy.

There is no record of EBOLI in the files of

the Italian National Police or in their identi-

fication files.

DocId: 32304712 Page 3

---

