# docid-32340879

## Page 1

1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10272

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 185-789-1603

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, BUE

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/23/1977

6

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/13/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45701

DocId: 32340879

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEP 23 9 55 AM '77

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUMICATIONS SECTI

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.......

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:_

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Fin. & Pers.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory.

Legal Coun

Plon. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Spec. Inv._

Tech., Servs.

Training

Public 'Affs. Off..

Telephone Rm.

D'rector's Sec'y

P

231200Z SEP 17

FM BUENOS AIRES (157-35) (P)

TO DIRECTOR (185-789) PRIORITY 224-23

/ CARACAS (174-8) PRIORITY 835-23

BT

SEGRET

CHIL BOM;.

PFO-MURDER; EID; 00J. 00: WFO.

REMYCAB AUGUST 31, 1977, WHICH OUTLINED A MEETING IN SANTIAGO,

CHILE BY LEGAT WITH COLONEL MANUEL CONTRERAS, THE DIRECTOR OF THE

CENTRO NACIONAL DE INFORMACIONES (CNI) (FORMERLY KNOWN AS DINA) ON

AUGUST 26, 1977, WHICH DEALI PRIMARILY WÍTH TRAVEL BY CHILEAN

PRESIDENT PINOCHET TO THE UNITED STATES DURING SEPTEMBER, 1977. IN

A SUBSEQUENT MEETING WITH THE CNI DIRECTOR ON AUGUST 27, 1977, COL.

• CONTRERAS TOLD LEGAI THAT CNI HAD PREPARED A REPORI; ON THE MED.

DE-61

REC-5: 185

ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN

EXILE

VISITED

PAST SEVERAL

YEARS, SPECIFICALLY ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND ROLANDO OTERO

9 SEP 28 1977

HERNANDEZ, COLO CONTRERAS TOLD LEGAT THAT HE WOULD PROVIDE A COPY CO

OF THE CNI REPORT BY MEANS ÔF THE CNI REPRESENTATIVE AT THE CHILEAN

EMBASSY, BUENOS,

AIRES,

COL. JETLION: CONTRERAS NO RELATION TO THE

CNI DIRECT OR) •

it

fie

70 don

31977

6.73

03

356/80

mm

NK

WED

9-23-77

Rem me

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO BUE 157-35 GOREI

ON SEPTEMBER 22, 1977, COL. MILTON CONTRERAS, CHILEAN

EMBASSY, BUENOS AIRES PROVIDED A COPY OF THE CNI REPORT. THIS

REPORT RUNS THREE PAGES AND IS IN THE SPANISH LANGUAGE. IT

CONTAINS SEVERAL ITEMS OF EXTREMELY PERTINENT INFORMATION IN

CAPTIONED INVESTIGATION, WHICH ARE BEING SET FORTH IN SUMMARY

TORM, A COMPLETE TRANSLATION OF THE CUI REFORE VILLE PROVIDED

TO THE BUREAU BY AIRTEL ON SEPTEMBER 27, 1977. 848

PERTINENT PORTIONS FROM THE CNI REPORT FOLLOW: (U)

WITH REGARD TO ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, THE REPORT REITERATES

PREVIOUSLY KNOWN AND REPORTED INFORMATION CONCERNING BOSCH AND HIS

ARRIVAL IN CHILE. REPORT INDICATES THAT IT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED

THAT WHILE IN CHILE, BOSCH WAS IN CONTACT WITH CORVETTE CAPTAIN

CARLOS ASCHION (CHILEAN NAVYS, WHO WAS ASSIGNED TO THE CHILEAN

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS. OTHER INDIVIDUALS WITH WHOM BOSCH

WAS IN CONTACT, ACCORDING TO CNI, WAS A NEWSPAPERMAN FOR "LA

SEGUND A" NAMED MANUEL FUENTES WED ING AND ALSO WITH UNIDENTIFIED

ELEMENTS OF "PATRIA Y LIBERTAD." AFTER DEPARTING CHILE DURING

AUGUST, 1975, BOSCH REENTERED CHILE WITH A FALSE CHILEAN PASSPORI

ORLANdONSOSE

UNDER THE IDENTITY OF HECTOR DAVANZO CINTOLESI.

ACCORDING TO

chile

14)

185-789-1603

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE BUE 157-35 SECRET

THE REPORT, THE CHILEAN PASSPORI IN THE DAVANZO CINTOLESI IDENTITY

UTILIZED BY BOSCH WAS FALSE; HOWEVER, ALL BIOGRAPHIC DATA CONTAINED.

IN THE PASSPORT IS IDENTICAL WITH DATA PERTAINING TO THE

BROTHER OF THE COMMANDER OF THE CHILEAN NAVAL TRAINING SHIP, "ESMER-

ALDA." THIS INDIVIDUAL'S IDENTITY WAS NOT SET FORTH IN THE REPORT.

THE REPORT NOTED THAT IN A MEMORAND UM DATED DECEMBER 4, 1974,

NUMBER R-287, FRIGATE CAPTAIN JAIME ROJAS BRUJES (CHILEAN NAVY),

THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARY TO THE UNDER SECRETARY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS,

ADVISED THAT THE PRESIDENT OF A CUBAN CLUB IN ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY,

LUCAS BORGES,.

REQUESTED

THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT TO ALLOW BOSCH TO

COME TO CHILE TO RESIDE.

CREPORT CONTAINS BRIEF INFORMATION CONCERNING GUILL ERMOX NOVO

SAMPOL WHICH HAS ALREADY BEEN REPORTED *

THE REPORT CONTAINS INFORMATION

.CONCERNING CUBAN EXILE JOSE.

DION ISIO SUAREZ..

THE REPORT IDENTIFIES SUAREZ AS A MEMBER OF THE

CUBAN NATIONAL IST

MOVEMENT AND INDICATES THAT HE ENTERED CHILE ON

Chile

CUbA

veN.

DECEMBER

19 74,

COL

WITH À VENEZUÊLAN PASSPORT, , NUMBER

1.289.3860;

SUAREZ ARRIVED IN CHILE FROM VENEZUELA AND DEPARTED

ON DECEMBER 19, 1974 FOR COLOMBIA. XE

14

ARTA REGARD SO ROLANDOXOT ERO YUERDANDEZ, REPORT TOENTIFIED OTRRO

3

185-789-1603

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OTHER 4

PAGE FOUR BUE 157-35 75

AS A MEMBER OF THE GOLDEN FALCONS AND INDICATED THAT THIS GROUP

WAS AGAINST ISRAEL AND IN FAVOR OF "PALESTINIANS." REPORT INDICATED

THAT OTERO'S POL IT ICAL AFFILIATION WAS QUESTIONABLE. THE REPORT

INDICATED THAT IT WAS ASCERTAINED THAT OTERO WAS WORKING WITH

A COMMUNIST DOUBLE AGENT" WHO WAS

CONNECTED WITH THE VENEZUELAN INTELLIGENCE. SERVICE. ACCORDING TO THE

REPORT, OTERO RESIDED INL

] HOUSE DURING 1968.

THE REPORT CONCLUDED BY INDICATING THAT ACTION OF CNI AGAINST

OTERO PROVOKED UNFAVORABLE REACTIONS AMONG CUBAN EXILES IN THE U. S.M

THE ABOVE INFORMATION WOULD APPEAR TO IDENTIFY BOSCH'S CONTACISIL

IN CHILE AS MEMBERS OF THE CHILEAN NAVY, ALTHOUGH THIS MAY WELL HAVE

BEEN NORMAL, SINCE BOSCH'S PRESENCE IN CHILE WOULD BE OF INTEREST

TO THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS WHICH IS UNDER THE JURIS-

DICTION. OF THE CHILEAN NAVY. LEGAT INTENDS TO REQUEST ADDITIONAL

INFORMATION FROM CNI WITH REGARD TO BOSCH'S ALLEGED CONTACTS WITH

"PATRIA Y LIBERTAD." ALSO LEGAT WILL ASCERTAIN THE SPECIFIC IDENTITY

OF THE BROTHER OF THE COMMANDER OF THE CHILEAN NAVY TRAINING SHIP

"E SMERALDA," WHOSE INFORMAT ION WAS UTILIZED ON BOSCH'S

FALSE CHILEAN PASSPORT. M

• INFORMATION CONCERNING JOSE DIONISIO SUAREZ' VISIT TO CHILE

185-989-1603

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE FIVE BUE 157-35 SECRET

delet

IS EXTREMELY INTEREST IN SINCE THE CHISEN NATIONAL POLICE

OTHER 4

FREVIOUSLY REPORTED NO RECORD COULD BE LOCATED INDICATING THAT

SUAREZ MAD ENTERED CHILE. INTERVIEW WITH SUAREZ CONCERNING HIS

TRIP TO CHILE IS BEING LEFT TO THE DISCRETION OF THE 00.

IT IS SUGGESTED THAT LUCAS BORGES OF ELIZABETH, NEW JERSEY

BE IDENTIFIED AND INTERVIEWED CONCERNING HIS REQUEST TO THE CHILEAN

GOVERNMENT TO ALLOW BOSCH TO COME TO THAT COUNTRY AND RESIDE. AS

IT IS SUGGESTED THAT LEGAI, CARACAS, IF POSSIBLE, ATTEMPT

TO ASCERTAIN WHETHER VENEZUELAN PASSPORT 1.289.386 WAS ISSUED TO

SUAREZ. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SUAREZ MAY HAVE BEEN PROVIDED WITH

FALSE DOCUMENTATION BY

IN ORDER TO FACILITATE

SUAREZ • TRIP TO CHILE. IT IS NOTED THAT

SUAREZ ARRIVED IN CHILE

ONE DAY AFTER BOSCH AVILA AND GUILLERMO NOVO AND DR. ORLANDO FERNANDEZ

AND THAT HE DEPARTED WITH GUILLERMO NOVO EN ROUTE TO COLOMBIA.

THE INFORMATION, IF TRUE, THAT OTERO HERNANDEZ RESIDED WITH

OR AT THE LATTER'S RESIDENCE IN 1968, MIGHT

EXPLAIN OTERO'S CONFIDENCE IN MORALES NAVARRETE WHEN HE FLED THE U.S.

IN EARLY INE TO AVOIO BELIE ARSED ON SOME HE CHARES 10 PRO I

ABOVE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE CNI REPORT IS THE FIRST

185-789-1603

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 6

---

## Page 7

r=

PAGE SIX BUE 157-35-5ECRET

POSITIVE SPECIFIC INFORMATION WHICH HAS NOT DEALT IN VAGUE

GENERALITIES TO BE FORTHCOMING FROM ANY ELEMENT OF THE CHILEAN

GOVERNMENT. LEGAT BELIEVES THAT THE ABOVE CNI REPORT WAS

SUBMITTED IN ORDER THAT A RESPONSE TO AUSA PROPPER'S REQUEST FOR

INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN EXILES IN CHILE

MIGHT BE PREPARED. IT IS INTERESTING TO NOTE THAT ALL

INFORMATION SPECIFICALLY LINKING CHILEAN NAVAL PERSONNEL WAS

ELIMINATED IN THE REPORT SUBMITTED TO AUSA PROPPER BY THE CHILEAN

EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON. ADDITIONALLY, THE REPORT SUBMITTED TO

AUSA PROPPER CONTAINED NO MENTION OF JOSE DONE SIC SUAREZ A (A

BUREAU REQUESTED TO ADVISE MIAMI, NEWARK, NEW YORK AND WFO. (U)

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

GLASSIFIED BY 5931 XGDS-2 INDEFINITE.

BT

ECD7,,$&5!/5#4°! 681#

6

185-789-1603

NW 45701 DocId: 32340879 Page 7

---

