# docid-32329874

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90088-10054

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3241-7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45727 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SU

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/28/1958

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

LESTER BENJAMIN BINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: - Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

HHT 45727

DocId: 32329874

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SU 94-253

C. ASSOCIATES

U. S. Probation Officer HUBERI BOYD of Las Vegas,

Nevada, advised February 17 and 21, 1958, he had kept a very

close observation of the associates of BINION and his only

associates during the month of February have been ROBERT H.

"DOBY DOC" CAUDILL and JOE W. BROWN, owner of the Horseshoe

Club who 1s in thè Las Vegas

area at the

present time. He

has also been associates with SU. 386-0.

BINION has been observed daily and has been contacted

daily by SA LEO E. KUYKENDAIL at his home and also in the

Nevada Room Restaurant located In the 100 block North 2nd

Street, Las Vegas, and he has not associated with anyone not

known to this Agent and on one occasion related that. he had no

intention of doing anything. in violation of the law and was

in hopes that his activities would be favorably looked upon

by the FBI. He stated he had been accused of causing the death

of HERBERT NOBLE,

Dallas, Texas.

He stated he would take an

oath on his family that he had nothing to do with the death

of NOBLE in any way. He said it was true that NOBLE was causing

nim a tremendous amount of trouble by what hewas telling

people in the Dallas area but he, BINION, had no holdings

there and therefore did not pay too much

attention to the

Grouble NOBLE was causing and the lies he was telling or was

sausing to be brought to the attention of the Dallas County

authorities. He stated if he had wanted to dispose of NOBLE

le could have done it on numerous occasions in the past but

lid not feel it was necesary at the time NOBLE was killed. BINION

stated he might have.considered having him killed if he

continued putting heat and pressure on him with the Dallas

jounty authorities.

The only associate not well known that BINION has

lad recently and whom he is entering into a partnership with

n the operation of a hickory bar-b-que located in 100 Block

orth 2nd Street is MARVIN STARK. SPARK reportedly is from.

ouston, texas, and operated a hickory bar-b-que stand at

ouston

in prior years. STARK appears to be 45 to 50 years of

ge, 5'9₴"

, dark hair, medium dark complexion, weighs approximately

00 pounds, wears heavy shell rimmed glasses. BINION has

entioned numerous associates of his in the past, none of them

n Las Vegas at the present time. He stated he has not seen

AX COHEN nor NATIE BLANK since his release from the Leavenworth

- 22 -

NW 45727 DocId: 32329874

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SU 94-253

INFORMANTS

I-1 Is SU 386-0 whose identity is known to the

Bureau.

T-2 1S PCI BYRON A. TANNAHILI.

JFK Act 6 (4)

I-3 is

Wro was contarted by SA VINCENT I. DRANE.

PCI of the Dallas Office,.

T-4 1s PCI

During the period covered by this Investigation

contacts have been made with persons to develop them as

PCIs or informants in connection with the activities of

subject, these being HARRY C. DORSETT, the administrative

manager of the Horseshoe Club; CURTIS

being Honect fen witn

TRAHAN, MIKE TANICO.

TANICO is employed at the Horseshoe Club in charge of slot

machine operation. He has been reported by SU 386-0 as being

a nephew of FRANK COSTELLO and to have married a sister of

PHIL KASTEL, who is a First Lieutenant of COSTELLO. He is

reported to have been the Individual who left a note in the

handwriting of LOU LEDERER for FRANK COSTELLO which was in

COSTELLO's possession when he was shot in New York recently.

SU 386-C advises TANICO 1s a "very sharp" individual and

could certainly fill in on all big time operations in the

event he can be cultivated.

Also, the following PCIs and informants have

been contacted during the course of this investigation and

furnished information alreadv known or in the possession of

reporting agent:

_ SU 353-C whose

identity is known to the bureau; su sil-o, whose identity

is known to the Bureau; SU 332-C, whose identity is known to

the Bureau; SU 340-0, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

- 25. -

NW 45727 DooId:32329874 Page 3

---

