# docid-32340919

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10221-10312

HQ

2-1423-1

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE : :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/13/1955

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

IID, ASSOC, ARMAMENTS, SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE OF

THE NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT, TRA, BUSS, NCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, S/S

V9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32340919

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STAÏES GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

'SAC, Miami 12-01

I. IRVING

DAV IDS ON

NEUTRALITY MATTERS,

REGISTRATION ACT

DATE: May. 13, 1955

3.1

Ayal lif

V. i

On April 11, 1955, MM-521-S submitted a written

report dated March 11

trip to licaragua in lar95s 1955, he mot at the Grand Hotel

advising that while on a business

in Managua a man whose calling card read, "I. IRVING DAVIDSON,

Public Relations - Wyatt Building, Suite 324; Washington, D.C.,.

telephone District 7-3400."

Informant learned through Colonel FRANCISCO A.

MENDIETA, retired National Guard,

that DAVIDSON came to

see

President SOMOZA In Nicaragua with a letter of introductior

from Dr. GUILLERMO SEVILBA

Nicaraguan Ambassador in

washington, for the purpose of selling armaments.

DAVIDSON told informant that "My specialty is to

furnish

anyone, anywhere, whatever armaments and other equip

ment they need

as long as no questions are asked."

DAVIDSON

stated that he would be representing himself to the Depart

ment of Justice in Washington in the near future as a purchasing

agent and special representative of the Nicaraguan Government.

Informant said that DAVIDSON introduced him to a

whose calling card named him as president

10240 Mines Boulevara, Bailes, Texas, telephone bi 5421.

Inc., Government Surplus Equipment,

DAVIDSON told the informant that after he finished

his business in Nicaragua he planned to visit other Latin

American countries, and especially, Venezuela.

Informant stated that DAVIDSON indicated that he

expected to visit Miami, Florida,

in the near future and would

call on informant., However, as

of this date, DAVIDSON has

not recontacted informan ECORDED - 87

REGISTERED MA

CANDEXED - 87

ANG INFORNATION CON

KENEIN IS TNCLASSIFILD

GED: phi

(5)

+3g

- 2215

IKSR

CC:

1-Washington Field Office (RM)

134-60 Sub

MAY 16 1955

x-12

NW 54027 DooId: 32340919 Page 2

---

