# docid-32291224

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

10/20/20

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10207-10000

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-600

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/16/1962

3

CIP, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32291224

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kenedy Assassination Recorus to lection Act or 1992 11 use

2707

'and

-36 (Rev.

РеФ. F2-13-5611-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date: 11/16/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MM 833-PGI, on 11/5/62, advised that RUBY/STRAUSS,

a bookmaker and gambler, is a daily visitor at the residence

Of JOSEPH INDELICATO (Miami file 92-404), Beaux Arts Apart-

ments, North Bay Village, Florida.

Since some rumor exists

r..

that STRAUSS and INDELICATO may be interested in a gambling

ship, investigation revealed that the crew list of a luxury

liner, the "Orange Sun", which is considered the most logical

ship which could be utilized for gambling purposes, indicates

the owners as MYRON J BERNS and GUY GULLY BERNS

waS

naturalized at Cleveland, Ohio in 1959. He also maintains an

office in the Biscayne Terrace Hotel, Miami, Florida.

MM 509-C, on 1176/62, advised he was informed that

MYRON

BERNS ' true name

iS MYROALBERNSTEIN; that he came to

Miami from Cleveland, Ohio; is wealthy; a gambler and one who

bought into the Patio Bridge Club last season and then sold

his interest a short time later to RUTH GASSENHEIMER, who is

paying off the obligation on a monthly basis. According to

his source BERNS is going to utilize his boat for gambling

purposes.

3

- Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF: amc

REC- 41

62-9-29=

-600

(5)

1.50

& NOV & 3 1952

C C a Wick

13 NOY 19 1008

Approved:

soda laus.

Sent

_M Per

DocId: 32291224 Page 2

---

## Page 3

['Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 210

(Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

Fla

MM 833-PCI advised on 11/15/62 that the Beaux Arts

Apartments, where INDELICATO and some other hoodlums reside,

is changing hands. The details are not known to the intormant,

but he understands MARVIN SCHULMAN and his associates, who

operate the apartments, are out and that a New York group is

to take it over with a Mr. SWARTZ. (phonetic) as the new manager.

This source advises that the present manager, ROBERT BERNSTEIN,

has been told to leave by the end of this year.

on the night of 11/14/62, JIMAS/COPPOLA, brother of

MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami file 92-101), JOD MORRISON, PASQUALE

VERRA (Miami file 92-648), RUB$LAZARUS observed meeting at

residence of MICHAEL COPPOLA, Miami Beach, Florida. ANTHONY

SALERNO (Miami file 92-406) not observed there, but his automo-

bile was in front of residence. MICHAEL now in the U.S.

Penitentiary but his release is anticipated in December, 1962.

MM. 730-C, on 11/9/62, advised he observed MAX

ÉDER

(Miami file 92-467) and his wife, as well as BEN/NOVACK, operator

of the Fontainebleau Hotel, and his wife, together at a Miami

Beach movie theatre where they heard the PATTERSON-LISTON fight.

MM 745-C* advised on 11/15/62, ANTHONY STEFANO

and an individual believed identical to CHARLIE "The

TOURINE were at Ciro's Restaurant, North Miami Beach,

Florida.

According to information received these individuals

had a lengthy conversation concerning the "Commission" and

discussed in detail various leading racketeers in the United

States. It was apparent RANDAZZO will be operating the

restaurant part of Ciro's and gambling will be performed which

will be controlled and operated by the other individual be-

lieved TOURINE. These individuals discussed the set-up of

organized crime involving people who had been in what they

called the "Mafia"', how they became members, and what a secret

- 2 .

DocId: 32291224 Page 3

---

