# docid-32334071

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10064

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-3575-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

08/28/1958

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH MEROLA

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

~ CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

DocId: 32334071 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05C

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 2 8 1958/0

TELETYP

Tolson.

, Belmont. !

Mr, Mohr.

Me. Nease.

Mr, Parsons.

Mr. Rosen

Ir. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy.-

Hote).

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4/20/95 BYSe2E18C18

EST.

JWA

C/A, ON1,031

URGENT

-28-58

5-41

PM.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 2P

JOSEPH MEROLA, LEONARD BIRD, UNKNOWN PILOT, FNU DILLIARD,

NM, RA. THIS CONFIRMS TELEPHONE CALL TODAY BETWEEN SAC

MIAMI AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR BELMONT. RECOUNTING FACTS

ARE. VICE CONSUL, HAITI, RUDOLPH BABOUR, REPORTED TO

SAC IN MIAMI OFFICE TODAY THAT UNNAMED INFORMANT HAD GIVEN

HIM FRAGMENTARY INFORMATION ABOUT REPORTED EXPEDITION OF

PEOPLE AND POSSIBLE SHIPMENT OF ARMS TO HAITI. THIS:

REVOLUTIONARY ATTEMPT PER INFORMANT MIGHT BE MADE OVER

LABOR DAY WEEK END OR SOME TIME DURING SEPTEMBER NEXT.

CLAIMS TWENTY SEVEN AMERICANS INVOLVED, INCLUDING ABOVE

NAMED INDIVIDUALS AND FIVE FBI MEN. VICE CONSUL STATED

CONSIDERED ALLEGATIONS RE FBI MEN INVOLVEMENT RIDICULOUS

BUT WANTED THIS OICE KNOW OF IT

REC- 6

DEFINITELY NO

MEN INVOLVED.

i Want s02525 - 3

ADVISED HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARIES HAVE DEPOT OF ARMSP AND 1958?

. AMMUNITION IN ABOUT QNE HOUR DISTANCE FROM MIAMI AND:

END

PAGE ONE

SEP 9

Belmont

C

state,

ONI

DocId:32334071 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaget

unter-the Fohn F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collectfor Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

PAGE TWO

HAVE ARMS WORTH SEVENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS CACHED ON SOME

ISLAND BETWEEN FLORIDA AND HAITI. INFORMANT STATED ONE

FNU DILLIARD LOCATED IN MIAMI IN LUMBER BUSINESS REPORTEDLY

TRYING TO GET CONTACI THROUGH HAITIAN GOVERNMENT

AND COUSIN OF DILLIARD IS MARRIED TO PILOT WHO HAS BEEN GIVEN

OR OFFERED TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS BY REVOLUTIONARIES TO FLY

ARMS TO HAITI. PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTIONS MR. BELMONT,

INVESTIGATION BEING INITIATED. CONTACT WILL BE MAINTAINED

WITH VICE CONSUL IN ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE IDENTITY OF

INFORMANT. ASSISTANT IN CHARGE OF U. S. CUSTOMS, MR.

WALLACE, IMMEDIATELY NOTIFIED RE FACTS THIS CASE AND HAITIAN

CONSUL DIRECTED TO LET CUSTOMS KNOW LOCALLY ABOUT THIS MATTER

IN VIEW OF ARMS FEATURE OF CASE. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT

ADVISED.

END

ACK PLS

WA 6-47 PM OK FBI WA CS

TU DISC

97-3575-3

DocId: 32334071 Page 3

---

