# docid-32295206

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10214-10482

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1917-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/11/1965

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

GPH, ASSOC, CUBAN REFUGEE, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

.. '

v9.1

NW 45812

DocId: 32295206

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

4-3 (Rev. 12-14-64)

THON

CON

"INED

Conrad.

DECODEDICOPY

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

RADIO XXXTELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy .

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

12:43 AM EST DEFERRED

6-11-65 JVVDECLASSIFICATION ANDIOS

TO DIRECTOR

RELEASE DE/CIA IRFORMIATIO

FROM MIAMI

710300

I 1he L

NMENT 71-15-98

ANTONIO CONSTANTO PALAUS GERALO PATRICK H

NEUTESTY

CONSTANZO: PALAU; GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, ETAL, NM,

3

INTERNAL SECURITY- DOMINICAN RepubLiC

RE CIA MESSAGE JUNE MAAST ENTITLED "RECRUITMENT OF CUBA)

EXILES IN MIAMI, FLORIDA TO ASSIST GENERAL ANTONIO IMBERT A

BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLI

A CUBAN REFÜGEE IN MIAMI, WHO HAS FURNISHED

RELIABLE INFO IN THE PAST, AND WHO REQUESTED HIS IDENTITY BE

PROTECTED, ON JUNE 10 INSTANT FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING.

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING IN MIAMI ARE RECRUITING CUBAN REFUGEES

AND AMERICAN ADVENTURERS TO GO TO/THE DR AS COMMANDOS.

AFTER THE TOTAL' OF 49 CUBANS AND 11 AMERICANS ARE RECRUITED

THEY WILL BE ARMED WITH FAL AND AR 15 RIFLES AND SENT TO DR BY

PRIVATE PLANE. THEY WILL HAVE VISAS TO ENTER DR. EACH CONMANDO

WILL RECEIVE 200 TO 250 DOLLARS ON DEPARTURE FROM USA AND WILL

RECEIVE

$50 A DAY COMBAT PAY. CONSTANZO CLAIMS THEY WILL LEAVE

ON JUNE 12 NEXT; PLACE OF DEPARTURE UNKNOWN. THE RECRUITS HAVE

NO ARMS AS YET. THE SOURCE OF THE ARMS

AND MONEY IS UNKNOWN.

CONSTANZO CLAIMS THE SOURCE IS GENERAL IMBERT AND THE COMMANDOS

WILL FIGHT WITH HIS FORCES. HEMMING CLAIMS THE SOURCE OF MONEY

IS AMERICAN BUSINESS MEN WHO ARE EMPLOYING THESE COMMANDOS TO

GUARD THEIR FACTORIES AND BUSINESSES

AN:

SAID

1IS SOURCE IS RAMON ESCARDA RUBIO WH

CONSTANZO AND HEMMING.

IS IN CONSTANT CONTACT WITH

SAYS

CONSTANZO IS UNRELIABLE,

IRRESPONSIBLE, AND ADVENTURER MIO

EVERYDAY HAS

NEW PLAN/FOR

912

DECLASSIFIED BY 54,68 5LD/USR

0N. 2-12-98

тала воїнси

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

11 JUN 1'7 1965

XEROX

JUN 22*

1965

(JEK)

131/00

UN 60 1800

tressined by

smAc

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is

suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

NW 45812 DocId: 32295206

Page 2

---

## Page 3

04=3 (Rey",|2-14-64)

• AIRGRAM

DECODED COPY

• CABLEGRAM'

RADIO XXTELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper.

Callahan.

Conrad -

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

PAGE TWO FROM MIAMI

11,0300

REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY.

THINKS THIS EXPEDITION IS HIGHLY

UNLIKELY TO HAPPEN. CONSTANZO

AND HEMMING USE AN APPLICATION

FORM FOR RECRUITS TO COMPLETE. OF THE THOUSANDS OF YOUNG

UNEMPLOYED CUBAN REFUGEES IN MIAMI, RECRUITMENT IS EASY.

U.S. CUSTOMS MIAMI SAID THEY HAVE NOT RECEIVED RE CIA [CIA3$ (U)

MESSAGE AND WILL DETERMINE LATER IF THEY WILL ACTIVELY

INVESTIGATE THIS MATTER.

MIAMI OFFICE IS MAINTAINING CONSTANT CONTACT WITH

AND

WILL KEEP THE BUREAU ADVISED. BUREAU IS REQUESTED. TO PRESENT THIS

MATTER TO DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE TO ASCERTAIN IF A DOM. HEUTRALY

INVESTIGATION IS REQUESTED. MIAMI WILL SUBMIT THIS INFO IN MATHER

FORM SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION LOCALLY. LMM FOLLOWING.

RECEIVED: 2:01 AM MLT

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

CC-MR. SULLIVAN

are intellin ce co to pred in the brue me sape i pot sisteminated outside the Bureau, it is sustested that it be suitably

NW 45812 DocId: 32295206 Page 3

---

