# docid-32305395

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10025

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-665

Document Information

¿ ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/21/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305395

392

Page 1:

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

fiRer. 3-5-621

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeL oach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

XX

Teletype

URGENT

8-21-62

5-12 PM EDST

GMCN

TO DIRECTOR AND SAGS MIAMI, NEWARK AND NEW YORK

ber.

FROM

SAOPHILADELPHIA

211900

ANGELO

AKA; AR, 00 - PHILADELPHIA.

RE MIAMI TEL TO PHILA AND NEWARK AUGUST 20, 1962, INTEROFFICE.

DAILY SUMMARY, PH 623-0% ADVISED AUGUST 18 INSTANT, BRUNO'S

SISTER, JOSEPHINE GRASSO, HAS BEEN REQUESTED BY INS TO COMPLETE

FORMS RE HER CITIZENSHIP. UNKNOWN LAWYER ADVISED BRUNO, HIS

SISTER SHOULD NOT COOPERATE WITH INS UNLESS THEY SUBPOENA HER.

LAWYER TOLD BRUNO GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO PRESSURE SISTER INTO

BEING GOVERNMENT INFORMANT.

ON SAME DATE BRUNO MET WITH CAPOREGIME,

PHILIP TESTA AND FORMER REPRESENTANDO ANTONIO POLLINA DURING

WHICH MEET COMMISSION DISCUSSED. TAPE SENT NEW YORK FOR TRANSLATION.

CALOGERO SINATRA, ACCORDING TO ABOVE SOURCE, WENT TO TRENTON,

No J., FRIDAY NIGHT AND TO NEW YORK ON AUGUST 20, INSTANT AND WOULD

RETURN TO PHILA IN TWO OR THREE DAYS.

PH 614-C-TE ADVISED AUGUST 20, INSTANT, FELIX JOHN DE TULLIO,

NEWARK HOODLUM, MADE APPROXIMATELY EIGHT PHONE CALLS DURING DAY

IN EFFORT TO CONTACT BRUNO.

SUBSEQUENTLY MEET SET UP FOR MIDNIGHT

BETWEEN DE TULLIO, BRUNO AND JAMES SCAFIDI, ASSOCIATE OF DE TULLIO,

AT THE FRIENDLY BAR, EIGHTH AND WASHINGTON STREET, PHILA.

PURPOSE

RELAYED TO NEW YORK

24

12

2 "/

12 AUG 23 1962

301 -36

÷ 891962

DocId: 32305395 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records, Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE; 11-14-2017

4-4| (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolmont -

Mohr-

Callahan.

DeLoach_

vans

alon

Trotter

Tele. Room -

lolmes

and

• Radio

*x Teletype

PAGE TWO

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

211900

OF MEET UNKNOWN.

PH 623-0% AND PH 614-C-TE ADVISED ON AUGUST 20, INSTANT,

BRUNO MET WITH RUSSELL BUFALINO, PHILA TOP HOODLUM, DURING DAY.

PURPOSE MEET UNKNOWN.

FOR INFO MIAMI AND NEWARK NEITHER OF ABOVE INFORMANTS

KNOW OF ANY PROPOSED TRIP BY BRUNO OR CHARLES COSTELLO TO

IMIAMI, DURING THIS WEEK. TRIP BY BRUNO TO MIAMI WOULD BE

HIGHLY UNLIKELY DUE TO BRUNO'S INVOLVEMENT IN HIS DAUGHTER'S

MARRIAGE, AUGUST 26 INSTANT.

PH 614-C-TE BELIEVES BRUNO MAY TRAVEL TO ATLANTIC CITY,

No J., ON WEDNESDAY OR THURSDAY, THIS WEEK, IN EFFORT TO OBTAIN

SERVICES OF SINGERS DEAN MARTIN AND OR FRANK SINATRA FOR DAUGHTER'S

RECEPTION ON SUNDAY, IN PHILA. INFORMANT ADVISED MARTIN IS

CURRENTLY WORKING AT 500 CLUB AND WILL BE JOINED BY SINATRA DURING

WEEK, DATE UNKNOWN. PH 623-C* HAS CONFIRMED BRUNO!S INTEREST IN

MARTIN AND SINATRA FOR ABOVE PURPOSE.

PHYSICAL AND TECHNICAL COVERAGE OF BRUNOW ILL BE AFFORDED

CONTINUOUSLY ON AUGUST 23 INSTANT.

MIAMI REQUESTED TO IMMEDIATELY ADVISE PHILADELPHIA UPON

COMPLETION OF THEIR INTEREST.

NEWARK DETERMINE JE MARTIN AND SINATRA ARE IN ATLANTIC

CITY, AND SUTEL.

INFO FOR NEW YORK.

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS:

RECEIVED:

If the intelligence contained in the

abobe message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32305395 Page 3

---

