# docid-32309878

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10144

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

2-1499-1ST NR 94

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel •

Caset:MW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/13/1962

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

FS, AFFIL, PRO GOBIERNO CONSTITUCIONAL DE CUBA,

ACA, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, LHM

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32309878

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DIRECTOR, FBI

6/3/62

SAC, VEO (105-40596) (RUC)

PRO GODXERNO COUSTITUCIONAZ DE CUBA

(PCCC)

IS : CUBA

(00 +MM)

Rowpolet 4/30/62, entitied "CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS;

IS - CUSA", (Bufile 109-430, WOfile 109-30) •

Miant,

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies end

for the

Horfolk, and Hey Yosh Offices, one copy each of a LID, and

memo of evaluation; dated and captiened as above.

On 6/2/62, WE

CS RAMIRO LOX3 exhibited to SA GENE L.

BURGE the following correspondence witten in Spenish which had been /

recoived by Lots the previous need tron JULIO GARCERA;

of the FCCC:

I'o

2.

Letter addressed to RAMIRO LOYS, dated 5/15/02g

at Mani, Florida, written on the letterhead of

the PCCC, edgned by JULIO GARCERAN, which letter

merely refors

to the enclosure, mmber two.

Letter addressed to RAMIRO LOtS, datod 5/31/62,

at Miant, Plorida, written on the letterhead of

the ICCC, advising that at a scoting of the

Foreign Relationa Cornisador: on 5/10/62, LOZS

had been designated Delegate of the PGCC at

This letter was signed by

Engineer DANILO BAlLA, Secretarys Dr. CUILLERMO

MORALEZ, President, Foroign Relations Connission;

and was

approved by JULIO BARCELAN, Premident

- Bureau (Enc. 9)

• Norfoll: (Eno. 1) (Tn£0) (RN)

2-149950

1 - New Yout (Ene. 1) (Info) (RA)

1 - Niond (66-2652) (Info) (RA) (Enc. 1) |_i

2 - WO

NOT RECORDED

(1 = 134-3860)

98 JUN 29 1962

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

GLBalpr

(7)

ENCLOSURE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/22/24 BY SP3TER/AH (CA

317-95 - 5668 SLD/EATFR)

HIH

54462

DooId: 32309878

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UPO \20g-40596

3.

Letter addressed

to

RAMIRO LOYS on the

letterhead of the PCCC,

eigned by JULIO GARCERAN.

The date on this letter had been orased with

the exception of the year, 1962.

This letter

enclosed trio memoranda,

the information fron

which has beon sot out

in the

attached LIM.

The letter further newleed GARCERAN expected

to leave for Guatenala the nant days that ho

hed been unable to go to Washington on the

25th, but that he hoped to be there on the 87bt.

Rogarding the above lotter LOTS advised he did not know

whother this inforantion roferred to the wonth of May, 1962,

or l provious montho

In this connection; it ie pointed out

that referencod lotter reflecte that on 4/6/62, L0XS advinod

CARCERAN hed veitten hin potting he planned to retura to

Washington,

Do Coo about 3/27/62, but apparently, he had bean

delayod es ho

had not arrived.

Regarding the internation contained in the attached

LOTS requested cane be talen in the use of this naterial

inamuch as he did not know whether on not anyone besides those

directly devolved were aware of these natters.

Concoming his appointment as Delogate

PCCC In

Washlnston, D. Co, 10TS advised he had witten GARCERAN

a lottor dated $/28/62, in which he refused the poottion;

steting he would not become connected with any such organisation

unless ho knew it was backed by the United States Govorment.

When asked why GARCERAN would sain offer him the position

whon he had already turned it dom (an set out in referenced

letter), LOVS advised he could only airnise GARCERAN felt that

10 ho perstated L0XS would accept the position due to their

friendahip.

107S

Loys etated he expected GARCERAN to be in Weahlagton

ogado da the near future and to contaet him.

Aoy infornation

obtained at that tine will be made avallable to the Bureau

and interested offices.

S78-10M01

774 54462

DooId: 32309878

Page 3

---

