# docid-32286466

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10242

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/18/1968

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286466 Page 1 .

117

---

## Page 2

Released undér the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-02

wa1.ar201110

AFRROFRIATE AGENCIES

GSA GENT REG. NO. 27

UNITED. STATES

ERNMENT

PATFISES

Memorandum

WISED TY

#LIP (S)

DATE

TO

FROM

SUB

3/21/84

INDEFINITE

PRIATSA:

ANY THELD OFF:

*ED BYRO

Director, FBI (92-3171)

CÍASS

SET REVERSE

DD DECISTONS FINATIZE

March

184 71968

MVICATION

NL

Legat, Mexico City (92-1BATE(P)

DECLASSIFIEO BY.

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA,

aka

ANTI- RACKETEERING

AND

PROPRIATE AGENCIES ANDTIES

OTFICES ADVISED T ROUTING SLIP

SITP(9)

ON 11/5/85 ANE NOEDRIPL

DATE

MASON-

"Mexico City letter December 13, 1967.

-FOIM

The Mexico City Office

illance informants,

REVIEW

MEX

25,

MEX 55,

MEX 42, and MEX 19g

ve continued spot

surveillances at the Club de Golf

and at Nubes 2 and other

locations in Cuernavaca,

Morelos, Mexico,

and also in Mexiço

City with negative results.

They have not observed subject

or the Mercedes Benz with MexicooCity License 650 SY

(4)

Representatives of this office have

been

in daily

contact with JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES, Mexican Immigration Inspection

Service,

and this matter is frequently discussed.

He has

indicated a continuing interest but apparently is depending

on

a source in the Club de

Golf in Cuernavaca to notify him

if

subject. is in the area.

VAZQUEZ ROBLES has

previously assigned investiga-

tions in this matter to MEX 170, who has furnished reliable:

information in the past and who

the

Mexican Immigration Inspection Service.

This makes

difficult and potentially prejudicial and embarkassing to have

this source conduct investigation in this matter independentl

The fact that VAZQUEZ ROBLES continues to be

interested in subject and his activities is demonstrated by.

the fact that he recently requested a name check of a HOLLIS

ARTIUR GRIEVE, solely on the fact that this individualchad

retained subject's attorney, JORGE CASTILLO VAZQUEZ- ROBLESC

BiZE CASTILLO

ng

data were race hear o

ACCI

-

The

fe]

68

rom MEX

65

the

past:

HEREIN

NUS J.S

EXCEPT

Bureau

OTHER

Besent Chica

(1

Liaison

Section)

(2

2*chieag0192-349)

3/2265 o-

Mexic

it y

RSC: esc

APR

Bin

26e informatio

ASS MAD

MAR 20% 1968

-

Savings Bonds

Regular

roll Savings Pla

19/29/78

DocId: 32286466

Page 2

---

## Page 3

leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

Re :

IDA ALICE FISCHER BUNCHI

Possible contact of subject in Guatemala

As reported, she was born October 18, 1908,

Zurich,

Switzerland.-

Zone 10 Guatemala City, Guatemala.

Her residence is loth Avenue 14-92,

= She is married to EMILIO

"FELIX+

SCHNEIDER

therefore, her ful

•ect name is IDA

- ALICE FISCHERX-BUNCHI DE SCHNEIDER.

Her husband, who was also born in Switzerland,

arrived in Guatemala in 1955. He is listed as an accountan

Neither has a criminal record

in Guatemalador any

known connection with the underworld (lu

LEAD

IDENTI

and

and

MEXICO CITY

At Mexico, CDF. Will continue,

rough MEX 170

Mexican Immigration,

activities in Mexico. (hestablash subject's where atone

CONFIDENTIAL

2

12-105,7

DocId: 32286466

Page 3

---

