# docid-32129541

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ДДXБ0411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

"Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Exit JFK:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10035-10375

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-82555-2108

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : LEG, MX

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE: 02/18/1964

PAGES :

2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : LHO, TRA TO DL AND MX

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/17/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results:

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK.

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel

3E: 11-14-2017

-63)

DECODED COP YCONFA

AIRGRAM

X& CABLEGRAM

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Evan's

'Gole"

Rosen

Euthiy

Fievel

Tratter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

VERY URGENT

2-18-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MEGAT MEXICO CITY

NO. 384

RADIO

• TELETYPE

ALL TEFORATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

XCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWIS

Bruno

BUF ILE 105-82555.

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS-R-CUBA.

REBUCAB

THIS DATE.

IN ACCORDANCE WITH INSTRUCTIONS CONTAINED THERIN THE

FOLLOWING DAILY SUMMARY SUBMITTED:

BUAIRTEL FEBRUARY 13 FURNISHED PHOTOGRAPHS OF SILVER

'COLORED BRACELET GIVEN BY SUBJECT TO HIS WIFE UPON HIS

RETURN TO DALLAS FROM MEXICO AND PHOTOGRAPHS OF SIX COLORED

POSTCARDS,

MEX-18, RELIABLE, ADVISED. TODAY CHARLES SMALL

1(4)

DOES NOT SELL POSTCARDS IN HIS TOURIST-TYPE STORE HERE.

SOURCE THIS AFTERNOON WAS GOING TO VISIT SMALL'S STORE

UNDER PRETEXT AND EXAMINE ALL BRACELETS FOR SALE THERE.

1E

NOTED THAT BRACELET BOUGHT BY SUBJECT IS STAMPED "JAPAN"

ON INNER SIDE. SOURCE DOUBTFUL SMALL HANDLES JAPANESE •

JEWELRY DUE TO HEAVY IMPORT DUTIES INVOLVED. IF INVESTIGATION

22

(55)

SMALL'S STORE NEGATIVE, SOURCE WILL CONDUCT CANVASS OF ALL

JEWELRY OUTLETS HERE HANDLING JAPANESE MERCHANDISE.

RE PERSONS DEPARTING NUEVO LAREDO OCTOBER 3 LAST DURING

SHIFT FOLLOWING DEPARTURE OF OSWALD. HERNANDEZ OCHOA OF

GOBERNACION ADVISED TODAY APPROXIMATELY 68 PERSONS DEPARTED

DURING THIS SHIFT AND HE IS IN PROCESS OF DIGGING OUT ORIGINAL

TOURIST CARDS FROM POORLY-KEPT MEXICAN IMMIGRATION SERVICE

FILES. HE WILL MAKE THEM AVAILABLE TO THIS OFFICE IN ORDER

XEROX-DAlIAS.

R5/0-7-JeS/itf

REC-I

105-82555-26488

Classifiad By?

3 RADGAT

Dedlessity 6i/

NOR

(JFK

S22FEB 261964

74. 3

1960

L CONFIDENTIAL

5 Pain the hi

elligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32129541

Page

---

