# docid-32313201

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10326-10129

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-1095-178, 179

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

KUYKENDALL

TO : DL

TITLE:

DATE :

06/05/1964

'PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

CARLOS BRINQUIER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, RS

V9.1

HH 53130

DooId: 32313201

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Routing sisp

FD-4 (Rev. 10-13

'To

_Director

Att.

XXXX

SAC

ASAC

Supv.

l. Agent

SE

CC

Steno

JClerk

NEW ORLEANS

(RM)

Date

6/1951

FILE # DI 170-14-

CSDL 108-R

Title

5668-548/ mde

6/9/48 (JFK)

AL NFORMTION CONTAINED

IRENE ONCLASSIFIED

JATE

5/23/83 BYSPIGSRTC

ACTION DESIRED

22617/

Acknowledge

Assign..

.Reassign

Bring file

Call me

Correct

Deadline...

Deadline passed

Delinquent

Discontinue

Expedite

Open Case

Prepare lead cards

Prepare tickler

Recharge serials

Return assignment card

Return file

Return serials

Search and return

See me

Send Serials.

File

to

For information

Submit new charge-out

Initial & return

Submit report by ...

Leads need attention

Type

Return with explanation or notation as to action taken.

Attached is one copy of channelizing memo

dated 6/18/64 and one copy of channelizing memo

dated 6/19/64.

Debates Shanklin

_ See reverse side

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SAC, DALLAS (170-1A=4A)

6/18/64

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALE

CS-DL 108-R

CSDE 108-R on 5/24/64, furnished an oral report

to SA EDWIN D.

KUYRENDALL.

It was dictated on 5/26/64,

steno EVALYN MIDDLETON.

It vas typed on 6/1/64, and was

authenticated on 6/3/64, by source in presence of SA EDWIN

D. KUYKENDALL. The original is filed as 170-1A-4.

Barce

Source in this report advised that at about 7:30 PM,

Saturday, 5/23/64, approximately 40 persons were present at

PLano, texas.

The pastor of

Dr. BILLY JAMES BARGIS.

15550054

Some patriotic songs were sung.

Is persons entered the

building literature of the Christian

Anti-Coumunist Crusade was distributed.

BARGIS was the first speaker, reviewing material

contained in leaflets distributed to those present.

discussion indicated objection to CASTRO in Cuba and

indicated his anti-conmunist sympathies.

HARGIS introduced

CARLOS BRINGUIER as the person who debated LEE HARVEY OSWALD

in 1963, on a radio program in Louisiana.

HARGIS told about

BRINGUIER finding out OSWALD was a "Communist Agent working

with CASTRO,"

and said BRINGUIER has turned all of his

information over to proper investigating authorities.

He said

this was two or three months prior to the day of President

KENNEDY'S assassination.

CARIOS BRINGUIER then took the floor as the next

spoaker.

He said is uncle, name unknown, was some Kind of

an official in Cuba before BATISTA was President in Cuba.

- 170-1A-4A

New Orleans (Ant1-Fidel Castro Activities, IS - C) (105-1095) (RM)

105-1354 (Anti-Fidel Castro Activitles)

157-218 (Edwin A. Walker)

105-569 (NSRP)

EDK: em 5768-54S/mde 10/9/18

A FORMATION CONTAINEU

N'S UICIASSIFIED

1itS/23/83 BIRPIQSKoC

22612|

05-1095

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED...

JUNN 2 0 1964

FBL - NEW ORLEANS

179

CALLENdeR

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 3

---

## Page 4

ĐL 170-1A-4A

BRINGUIER said he was in Cuba at the time of the

overthrow of the Batista Government by CASTRO and told ho

FIDEL CASTRO personally assassinated a relative of BRINGUIER

by shooting him. BRINGUIER, in broken English, spoke about

his leaving Cuba and coming

he got into astore business with his brother-in-law.

to New Orleans, Louisian There

1n the middle of 1963, LES HARVEY OSWALD walked into his

place of business and told him he was against FIDEL CASTRO

and was interested in helping CARLOS BRINGUIER train exiled

Cubans in a nearby training camp near New Orleans.

BRINGUIER

said he was suspicious of OSWALD already because a few days

before that incident BRINGUIER and his friends had received

information from someone in Mexico who was connected with

Cuban activities, that there was a spy in the New Orleans

area (pro-CASTRO). He said OSWALD, from his conversation,

already knew about the existence of the secret training camp

for exiled Cubans near New Orleans, where Cubans in exile were

being trained to be returned to Cuba to fight the CASTRO

Government. BRINGUISR stited he felt sure OSWALD was the

CASTRO spy who had been reported to be in the New Orleans area.

He claimed he told OSWALD his only interest inthe organization

known as "Cuban Student Directorate" was for the propaganda

angle and not actually to help train people at the camp; that

BRINGUIER'S associates would

not need OSWALD. BRINGUIER

claimed he was suspicious of OSWALD and d not want his services.

OSWALD then left that store.

A few days later a friend of BRINGUIER told BRINGUIER

he had seen OSWALD a few blocks away carrying a sign announcing

he was for CASTRO. BRINGUIER went to the place where OSWALD

was carrying the sign and both recognized each other. He

said OSWALD seemed surprised to see BRINGUIER there.

BRINGUIER

added he got mad and called OSWALD a traitor and communist;

where do it han ed his face to hand told him to go

ahead and

BRINGUISR clained he then realized

OSWALD was trying to be a martyr and wanted BRINGUIER to hit

him in order to gain sympathy.

By that time a crowd had

gathered. BRINGUIER claimed he told OSWALD he was through

and might as well leave New Orleans. This occurred in about

August, 1963, according to BRINGUIER.

A few days after the above incident OSWALD sent a

Marine training book to BRINGUITH by some other individual

as a present..

he said that inside

the coverwas the same

name that reportedly was the name in which a rifle was

purcaased by OsWald that was used to assassinate President

KENNEDY. That name was HIDELL (phonetic). BRINGUIER claimed

2

39M10130

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI. 170-1A-4A

he turned this book over to investigative athorities and that he

has told his full story to authorities about his associations

with OSWALD. He said that just before OSWALD left New

Orleans, he challenged OSWALD to a debate on radio concerning...

CASTRO.

They thereafter debated on a radio program, with

OSWALD being for CASTRO and BRINGUIER being in favor of

overthrowing CASTRO'S Government.

Following that radio

program OSWALD departed from New

• Orleans and BRINGUIER clained

he has not had any contact with him since. BRINGUIER suspected

that OSWALD had entered Mexico shortly thereafter.

BRINGUIER talked about having helped train exiled

Cubans in the New Orleans area. He

said "we" and "our people"

had recently burned some sugar. cane fields or mills in Cuba.

He said the exiled Cubans are still planning to slip

• back

into Cuba and burn and blow up things.

He said "they" are now

ready to revolt against CASTRO and are

awaiting the command

to go ahead, but said August 1, 1964, is the deadline by

which time

this action would take place. He said the Cuban

exiles are all prepared, ready and willing. He talked as if

this training program is still being carried on, although,

was not specific in stating where it is carried on presently.

He said it was quite a program.

BRINGUIER had a record for sale for $4.00, which

allegedly contained a conversation between himself and LEE

HARVEY OSWALD, in which OSWALD allegedly admitted being a

Marxist or Communist and admitted working as an agent for

CASTRO in the United States.

BRINGUIER waS

also selling

leaflets for 25 cents per copy.

He did not specify any

efforts toward recruiting anyone to help overthrow CASTRO"S

Government, but was selling the above described itens in an

effort to raise money.

BILLY JAMES HARGIS then took the floor and talked

nore. He criticized the civil rights bill that was up before

congress.

He spoke about four books he had written that were for

sale. He took up a collection fron the group with contributors

placing the names, addresses, and amounts of contributions

on envelopes enclosing same.

HARGIS said the money being

raised by him was to begin 100 new radio bradeasts with the

object of having 1,000 radio broadcasts regularly in Texas

3

.--

950-10130

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 170-1A-4A

dealing with his Christian Anti-Communist Crusade activities.

HARGIS mentioned that CARLOS BRINGUIER works for him on a

salary basis.

HARGIS said nothing about recruiting persons

for activities in Cuba.

HARGIS said BRINGUIER was there

for the purpose of telling the story about communists being

right "on top of us" and how communism was responsible for

killing President KENNEDY. HARGIS said BRINGUIER and their group

were trying to awaken the public to the communist menace.

He said

his organization was vorking in Florida a great deal

pushing for contributions and selling his material.

Several

persons apparently made contributions.

BILLY JAMES HARGIS and CARLOS BRINGUIER appeared

to have one or two other persons traveling with them in a

Dodge Mobile Home (truck and house trailer combination).

One young American looking man 19 or 20 years of age served as

usher at the meeting. Another Spanish or Cuban looking young

man about 30 lead the singing of patriotic songs at the

beginning of the meeting, after which he sat down in the

audience with a female who did not appear to be Cuban or

Spanish. A man named C. OF Ta

COMER, who claims to

have a radio broadcast on station ISKY (Dallas) every Sunday

morning, and a male individual named (

→ RUSHING from

South Dakota were present at the meeting.

• It is not known

whether they were traveling with the tangis group.

Also

present was one Reverend BURKET (phonetic) of Dallas who was

identified by HARGIS as his advance man in Dallas who served

to set up as appearance prior to HARGIS arrival.. He did

not indicate that BURKET™

was his advance man ebewhere.

Announcements were made that HARGIS's group next

day would make appearance in Garland, Texas,

and thereafter

would be in Dallas a few days.

In early 1964, the Christian

Anti-Communist Crusade 1s to have a national convention at

the Baker Hotel, Dallas, with Governor GEORGE WALLACE of:

Alabana,

being one of the speakers,

according to an announcenent.

The meeting adjourned at about 10:00 PM.

Informant further advised that one J. B. DENNIS,

1012 West Saner Street, Dallas,

texas, recently received by

mail a copy of "The Thunderbolt" for April, 1964, a publication

issued by the National States Rights Party. That publication

contains an article that is substantially the same infornation

that was given in the above meeting in Plano. In the article

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Motion.

DI 170-1A-4A

appeared a photograph of CARLOS BRINGUIER which was shown

therein as CARLOS BOINGUIES, and under his name appeared the

words "Cuban Student Directorate." That photograph is of

the person named CARLOS BRINGUIER, who spoke at the HARGIS

meeting at Plano on May 23, 1964.

Source on 6/3/64, furnished to SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL

a copy of the April, 1964,

issue of "The Thunderbolt." Pages

three and four of that publication issued by the National

States Rights Party contains an article entitled "Proof

OSWALD a Communist Agent" by CARLOS BOINGUIES of the "Cuban

Student Directorate." (Pages three and four of that publication

have been placed in the lA section of Dallas file 105-1354.

The remainèr of that publication has been destroyed.)

Source also furnished to SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL

05/54.

entitled "Christian Crusade 1964 issue Of a magazine

published by BILLY MMS HARGIS,

which publication was distributed at the above described

meeting at Plano, Texas, on 5/23/64. (Pages 3, 18, 19, 30,

31, 32, 33 and 34 of that publication are being placed in

the lA

section of 1051354).

2225221

It is to be noted that pages 18 and 19 of the above

described issue of "Christian Crusade" states that the Christian

Crusade Anti-Communist Youth University will have on its

Summer, 1964, eleven dividuals including Dr.

BILLY JAMES HARGIS, DI. CARLOS BRINGUIER, New Orleans, Louisiana,

and General EDWIN A. WALKER of Dallas, Texas.

27 of that

publication furnishes data concerning the forthcoming national

convention of the christian Crusade, August 7 - 9, 1964, Baker

Hotel, Dallas, Texas.

Pages 30 - 34 contain

an article entitled

"OSWALD; A CASTRO Agent in the United States" by DI. CARLOS

BRINGUIER. Page 32 of

that article contains an advertisement

about a phonograph album entitled

"The President's Assassin

Speaks"

, which is for sale for $4.00 by the Christian Crusade,

Box 977, Tulsa, Oklahoma. It states this is a recording of

the radio debate between OSWALD and Cuban Freedom Fighter

CARLOS BRINGUIER with introductory remarks by BILLY JAMES HARGIS.

Photographs of BRINGUIER appear on pages 33, 31, and 19 of that

publication. General EDWIN WALKER appears on page 19 of that

publication.

Source had no additional information.

5

1N 53130 Do01d:32313201 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SAC, DALLAS (170-1A-5A)

6/19/64

5668-528 nde 6/9/48 JFK

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CS-DL 108-R

MERCIES UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 5/23/83 BY SPIGSKOC

226171

Source on 5/25/64, furnished an oral report to

SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL which was dictated on 5/26/64,

Steno EVALYN MIDDLETON; typed 6/1/64. It was authenticated

by source on 6/3/64, in the presence of sA KUKeNDALi.

is filed as 170-1A-5.

Source in this report advised that the BILLY

JAMES HARGIS group, including CARLOS BRINGUIER made an

appearance at 7:30

PM, 5/25/64, at the Community Hall, also

known as City Hall, 4100 block Clarendon, Cockrell Hill, Texas.

About 60 persons were present:

2205

BuLantAbsts opened the meeting and after a

short speech and taking of a collection for Christian Anti-

Communist Crusade activities, turned the meeting over to

CARLOS BRINGUIER of the Cuban Student Directorate with head-

BRINGUIER was selling yellow

leaflets In connection with telling his story to the group.

He was selling the leaflets at 25 cents per copy and said

he

was trying to accumulate money to help in the coming invasion

of Cuba by Cuban exiles by August 1, 1964, as has been planned.

He told substantially the same story

that he gave at Plano,

Texas, on the night of 5/23/64.

He stated in connection with

that story that there are about 4,000 Cuban exiles in New

Orleans who are his followers and associates.

In talking at

Plano on 5/23/64, about the Marine book that LEE OSWALD had

given to him in the middle of 1963, at New Orlems, he said

the name shown inside the cover of that book was HIDELl (phonetic).

At the meeting, however, in Cockrell Hill he did not state the

same thing, but said literature OSWALD was passing out in

New Orleans bore the name of A. J. HiDeLi

BRINGUIER claims

to hold a doctor's degree and claims he réceives a salary from

170-1A-5A

New Orleans (Anti-Fidel Castro Activities,

IS - C) (105-1095) (RM)

1 - 105-1354 (Anti-Fidel Castro Activities)

1 - 100-10461

(Lee Harvey Oswald)

EDI: em

(4)

105-1095-178

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED -

INDERED

JUN 2 @1964

FBI - NEW ORLEANS

HH 53130 DocId:32313201 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Di 170- 1A-5A

BILLY JAMES HARGIS for his present speaking activities.

Later in the meeting an unidentified person in the audience

asked how long the President's Commission investigating the

assassination of President KENNEDY had talked to BRINGUIER

and it was said that BRINGUIER was interviewed three hours;

that the Warren Commission wanted to call BRINGUIER again

to testify in the future.

BRINGUIER indicated he did

not want to discuss there his testimony before that commission.

BRINGUIER did not opedy solicit persons at this

meeting toward assisting in the alleged forthooming invastion

of Cuba, or for membership in his organization known as Cuban

Students Diectorate.

Source on 6/3/64, furnished to SA EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL

a copy of a yellow leaflet entitled "OSWALD: A CASTRO Agent

in the United States" by CARLOS BRINGUIER, and which reflects

t is a Christian Crusade publication, lulsa, obranoma.

Source

rally stated these leaflets were sold by CARLOS BRINGUIEI

at the above mentioned meeting at Cockrell Hill, Texas, and

also by BRINGUIER on 5/23/64, at Plano, Texas, for .25

per copy.

(That leaflet is being placed in the lA section

0f 105-1354.)

Informant had no further information.

2

S9o-10rad

HH 53130

DocId: 32313201

Page 9

---

