# docid-32327599

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90064-10170

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

87-15374-132

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/27/1953

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32327599

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

7

TROBRAL BUBBAU OF IINISTICATIOR

UNITED STATES DISPARTIONE OF JUSTICE

AIR TEL

Toer Bos

FRI, LOS ANGELES

8-27-53

DIRECTOR (87-15374)

VICTOR BLANUSE PERSIRA, WAS. ET AL, ITSP, MAIL PRAVD, CONSA RACE, RE LAY

TEL TO BURRAY AUGUST THO SNO, LAST AND BULET TO LA AUGUST POURERA, LAST.

LA TRES SIX TOO SIX DASH C ADVISED PEREIRA AND CLARX, SR. RETURNED TO LA

FROM CHICACO AUGUST IWENTY FOUR, LAST. PERBIRA NEGOTIATING PURCHASE OF BON

IN BEL AIR DISTRICT, BRYKILY HILLS, CALIPORNIA. INFORIANT ADVISED THAT

CHARLES SYLVESTER, ATIORNEY FRIEND OF CLARK, SR., AND ATTORNEY FOR

BRADING AND PEREIRA LET CLARK, SR. AND PEREIRA IN DENVER, COLORADO ON OR

ABOUT AUCUST INENTY INO, LAST. SILVESTER CAME TO LA AND PRESENTLY REGISTEREN

IN BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL. CLARK, SR. ALSO REGISTERED IN SAME ROTEL. CLARK,

SA, SAURIER AND TETRA RO CONTRICE DA PARIANS OPTURE RORY WE ARE

FIVE BEVERLY BLUD, LA AUGUST THENTY FIVE, LAST. CONFIDENTIAI SOURCE ADVISED

I PERPIRA RECZIVED ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY NINE DOLLARS MONEY ORDER FROM

THE INITIAL C. SVALLONE, DENVER, OLORADO, AUGUST TURITY SIX, LAST WITH

FOLLOWING VESSACE " HAVE CHICK CAIL EUGENE (POSSIBLY EUGENE SMALDONE, EROTHER

OF CLYDE SALDUNE) AT GRANITE SEVEN NINE IHREE SIX AT EIGHT O'CLOCK DENVER

TDE."

DENVER ASCERTAIN IS GRANITE SEVEN NINZ THREE SIX IS DENVER NUMBER

AND IF SO OBTAIN LISTING. GRANITE SEVEN NINE THREE SIX IN LA LISTED TO ROBZRT

C. SUITE,

SEVIX FIVE ZERO NINE AND ONE FOURTH SANTA MONICA BLD.

RECORDED

187-15374-132

87-2584

Ce - DENTER. (87-1634)

BI PASO (87-1512)

Approvod:

spocial

179 SEP 3-1055000101

sent.

Chargo

DocId: 32327599

Page 2

---

