# docid-32306999

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10291-10139

HQ

105-72630-74

Released under the John

7. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NU 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: KELLOGG, RICHARD B.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/19/1960

' PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS:

PDL, ACA, ASSOC, LCA, AFFIL, ANTI-CASTRO

ORGANIZATIONS, FRD, CASTRO, ANTONIO FERNANDEZ,

NCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC S/S

19.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32306999

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

FEDEL

AL BUREAU OF INVLSTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

PEDRO LUIS OSCAR DIAZ LANZ

WHENMAX

REFERENCE:

Offico of Origin

MIAMI

Date

9/19/60

Investigative Period

7/10 - 8/22/60

Report made by

Typed By:

RICHARD B. KELLOGG

GK

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

IS - CUBA.

RELEASE OF GIA IMFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

1-29-97

SUD/KSR

Report of SA WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN,

8415447175

7/11/60, at Miami

-p=

LEADS

NEW YORK AND WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICES (INFORMATION):

Approved

Copies made:

Copies instant report being furnished New York

and Washington Field Offices for information since subject

travels to Washington, D. C., and New York City,

and those

offices may have an interest in subject in the future

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

in p94

Aite

1 - Will maintain contact with subject and other

Special Agent

In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

105

9. - Bureau (105-72630) (RM)

1 - INS;

Miami (RM)

1

- New

York (Imfo) (RM)

1

- Washington

Field (105-31259) (RM)($EP22

(105-1598)

726305

REC: 56

32 FEB-de 1973

Copy to: CIA/State/RAB

ONI/OSI/G2

Custones

AFTER

PORMATION COINS AINED

1

boring or in it st

wine.

HANS UNCEASSIIED

25/94 BYS SmociVA

OCT T

erty of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBl,

1960

JHC

neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed&

tside: the

* U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 O

—344750

NW 54460 DocId: 32306999

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1598

savings account number 112-021, opened April 8, 1959.

ALIANZA de LIBERACION is subject of a separate

case, Miami origin, and will be dealt with in that file.

Instant report classified Confidential to pro-

tect the identity of sources of possible continuing value.

INFORMANTS

LOCATION OF ORIGINAL INFORMATION

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is NK PSI DOMINGO

ROMERO, 219 - 44th Street,

Union City, New Jersey.

105-1598-239

MM T-2 is WFO PSI ALBERT

OGDEN PIERROT, Bell

Aircraft Corporation, WDC. 105-1598-247

MM T-3 is GONZALO HERRERA

CABRERA, defected Cubana

pilot who resides in

Miami Beach, Florida, and

is affiliated with the

FRD.

(At request)

Instant report, page 6.

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report, and "I" symbols were

utilized only in those

instances

where identities must be

concealed.

- C* -

- COVER PAGE

58l-1998

NW 54460 DooId: 32306999 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-1598

the United States to be that of uniting "all of the exile

organizations

to fight against the tyranny imposed by

FIDEL CASTRO.

We will not unite ourselves

with bandits

because revolutions are not made with bandits.

Neither

will we accept those who have their hands stained with

gold or with blood.

Above article stated that CONTE AGUERO waS

accompanied by Commander PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ and the

two anti-CASTRO leaders disclosed that the exile groups

will join soon in a secret place in Miami for the pur

pose of choosing "the person who will guide the destinies

of the country.

It is noted that "El Diario de Nueva York, "

a New York City Spanish language daily newspaper,

July 6, 1960, page 6, contained a colum by BABBY QUIN-

TERO concerning DIAZ LANZ which identified DIAZ LANZ as

the leader of a group called Cruzada Cubana Constitu-

cional (Constitutional Cuban Crusade • CCC) .

On July 5, 1960, MM I-2, an American business-

man who formerly had business contacts with highly

placed Cuban Government officials, advised that approx-

imately two weeks prior to the above date he had been in

contact in Washington, D. C., with PEDRO LUIS OSCAR

DIAZ, LANZ, whom he described

as the former Chief of the

Cuban Air Forces under FIDEL CASTRO. According to the

informant, DIAZ LANz told him he was in town with a

couple of other people. DIAZ LANZ

did not divulge to

the informant the exact nature of his business in Wash-

ington, D.t, the identity of the people he was with

or the identity of anyone he contacted in Washington,

D. C.

DIAZ LANZ accompanied the informant to dinner

on this occasion, and during dinner advised the informant

that he was experiencing severe

financial hardships

DIAZ LANz sought the informan's assistance in obtaining

employment in the Washington, D

Co, area..

- 3=

NW 54460 DooId: 32306999 Page 4

---

