# docid-32307604

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10292-10307

HQ

64-29479-4

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:NU 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

MCATEER, CHARLES F. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/01/1944

PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS :

MTP, MEMBER, CP, TRA, BUSS, ASSOC, POLIT ACT, BKG,

PASSPORT, REPRESENTATIVE, OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

NH 54462

DocId: 32307604

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

12

This Case: Originated at

HABANA

CUBA

Report Made At

Date

Madi

When

JABA NA

CUBA

12/174

14

Habana File No.

100-45

Period for Which Made

Report Made By

10/13,20; 11/10,11 CHARLES T MCATEER,

12/1/44

ARIA TERESA PROENZA ( PROENZA), also known as

Character or Case

INTERNAL SECURITY

Teresa®Proenza

C& R

ALL INFORMATIÓN CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

T 2-8 25B

Сива"

Tuna vit dee,

"Synopsis of Facts:

TERESA

PROENZA, a 36-year-o1d Cuban national, 15 a member

of the Communist Party of Cuba and active in numerous

front organizations and in social and cultural circles

known to be party dominated. On returning recently fron

an alleged business trip to Mexico

she related to a

reliable Source some of her activities while in Mexicc

and indicated she had interviewed the Russtan Ambassador

there and had learned through friends that the Russian

Embassy is making great progress in Mex co. She is now

reportedly the Cuban representative of OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY

which she terms a progressive American news syndicate.

Other reliable Sources reveal Subject has been assisting

the Russian Press Attache by arranging meetings for her with

Cubans whom she desires to meeta Subject attends all

Russian Legation affairs, usually recelving a special

invitation from the Press Attaché.

Subject's Communist

contacts and additional background information set forth.

STATUS:

P.

CC TO: I N3: La 1s

REFERENCE S

None.

COPIES DESTROYED

R241 DEC 6 1961

Approved and

Forwarded:

Made Available

ĐEC 5 1961

ANS

By: Кват

Legal

Attache

Do Not Vrite in These Spaces

Copies.of

This

Report

ENCORDRO

Embassy

M. A.

N. A.

Others

Burcau

Habana

(L. Embassy)

29479-

31 DEC 6 ISA

774 54462

• "Docid: 32307604 Patre

---

## Page 3

IDENTIFICATION OF SOURCES

The Sources of Information set out in the report of Special

Agent CHARLES F. MCATEER, Jr., dated at Habana

entteled ARLA TERESA PROENZA

, also known as Teresa Proenza; INTERNAL SECURITY •

CaR, are as follows

Source A - CI 339-12 CONP. LYFT,

Source B - Files of the Office of the Legal Attaché, Habana,

Cuba.

Source C - Foreign Travel Control project letter directed to

the Civil Attaché at Mexico City on March 18, 1944.

6

NH 54462

DooId: 32307604

Page 3

---

