# docid-32347763

## Page 1

Date: 12/14/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10067-10051

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

Released under

the

John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act

of

1992

144 USC

2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53199

ate: 06-07-2017

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO : IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY

TITLE

TRAVEL

OF HSCA MEMBERS TO MEXICO CITY

DATE

05/17/1978

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

HSCA TRAVEL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

:JFK12

F3

20031216-1025947

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10067-10051

NH 53199 DocId: 32347763

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-:

SEGRET

FRP:,

STAFF

CONF:

C/LA -8

INFO: FILE, VR, DDD-4, C/CI-4, C/IP/DMS, C/LSN/ID,

C/PCS, DDO/DO, ICS,

ODPD-D, OLGA SA/DO/O,

(25/P)

78 0713565

PAGE 001

TOT: 1719067 MAY

DIRECTOR 224314

Unita

SECRET

STAFF 1719052 DIRECTOR 224314

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXICO CITY

WNINTEL RYBAT

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 222189

B. IMEXICO CITY 45093/0709303

.. //.

(HSCA) SCHEDULED ARRIVE! MEXICO CITY

4 JUNE 1978

GARY CORNMELLO DEPUTY CHIEF COUNSEL.

HAPOLD LEAP, INVESTIGATOR

DAN HARDWAY, RESEARCHER

EDWIN LOPEZ, RESEARCHER

STATE DEPARTMENT HAS

SENT MESSAGE TO EMBASSY REQUESTING EMBASSY

PROVIDE LODGING AND LOCAL TRANSPORT FOR STAFFERS. TO OUR KNOWLEDGE

MSCA VISIT .NOT COORDINATED WITH FBI.

2.

EMBASSY HAS ALSO BEEN REQUESTED TO COORDINATE VISIT WITH

APPROPRIATE MEXICAN AUTHORITIES INCLUDING LOCATING AND ARRANGING

INTERVIENS WITH PERSONS LISTED PARA 10 REF A. A THROUGH I.

3.

IN ADDITION TO IDENTITY J (WHO SUBJECT MEXICO CITY 44819

AND DIRECTOR 215553) AND IDENTITY K, PARA 1, REF A, AND SUBJECT

PARA 2, REF A, MSCA DESIRES INTERVIEW FORMER OTS STAFFER ROBERT

ZAMBERNARDI WHO RETIRED MEXICO 1965. MSCA DEFERS TO STATION

JUDGMENT WHETHER INTERVIEWS WITH RAMON JOSEPH ALVAREZ DURANT

(FORMER SAFEHOUSE KEEPER), GEORGE MUNRO,, CHARLES FLICK AND

ROBERT ZAMBERNARDI SHOULD

BE CONDUCTED MEXICO OR WITHIN CONTINENTAL

U.S, IF STATION AMENABLE ASCA INTERVIEWING THESE INDIVIDUALS

CONDUCTED IN EMBASSY. IF THESE

ALL _NOTES

TAKEN BY INTERVIEWERS TO HOS ATTENTION OTIS E. VIGEANT. PLS

ADVISE,

4. HSCA HAS FOLLOWING SPECIFIC QUESTIONS THEY INTEND TO

SELRE

06596

NH 53199 DocId:32347763 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET.

STAFF

78 0713565

PAGE 002

TOT: 171906Z MAY 78

...

DIRECTOR 224314

-O000

PURSUE:

A.

PHOTOGRAPHED

0.

DURING 1963?

WHAT DID OSWALD OR THE UNIDENTIFIED PERSON

OUTSIDE CUBAN AND SOVIET EMBASSIES DO WHILE IN MEXICO?

IDENTIFY ALL LOCAL CUBAN CONSULATE EMPLOYEES

ASCA CONFUSED BY INABILITY TO LINK PHOTOGRAPHS OF

PERSONS VISITING SOVIET AND CUBAN EMBASSIES TO TELETAPS:

HSCA HAS BEEN INFORMED THROUGH INTERVIEWS THAT THERE

WERE FIVE TELETAPS BUT HQS RECORDS REVEAL TAKE FROM ONLY THREE

TELETAPS, ISCA WANTS TO IDENTIFY THE OTHER TWO TELETAPS. MSCA

AWARE THERE WERE UNILATERAL TAPS AND THEY DESIRE KNOW IF THESE

E. IN PHOTO COVERAGE; OF CUBAN EMBASSY THERE WERE THREE

CAMERA POSITIONS BUT HOS PHOTOS MADE AVAILABLE TO ASCA APPEAR TO

BE FROM ONLY TWO CAMERA POSITIONS, MSCA HOPES TO CLARIFY.

F. HSCA HAS INQUIREO IF

STATION CAN ASSIST IN

ARRANGING MEETINGS WITH MEXICAN, OFFICIALS WHO KNOWLEDGEABLE THIS

INVESTIGATION, DEFER STATION JUDGMENT RE THIS REQUEST DUE

EMBASSY INVOLVEMENT PARA 2, ABOVE,

5.

PLS PROVIDE NAME OF STATION OFFICER WITH WHOM MR. CORNWELL

CAN BE IN CONTACT WITH DURING VISIT.

6.

HSCA OPEN TO ANY STATION GUIDANCE

RE PROCEDURES TO BE

FOLLOWED DURING THEIR VISIT, SCA ASSUMES MEXICAN AUTHORITIES

WILL MONITOR THEIR ACTIVITIES AND INTERVIEWS WITH MEXICAN

NATIONALS.

7. FYI ONLY: HSCA STAFFÈRS CORNWELL, HARDWAY, AND

LOPEZ HAVE RECENTLY VISITED CUBA IN CONNECTION WITH THEIR

INVESTIGATION. MR. CORNWELL ISIMATURE, DISCREET, AGGRESSIVE

AND EXPERIENCED ATTORNEY/PROSECUTOR.

MR. LEAP IS MATURE AND

EXPERIENCED INVESTIGATOR.

MESSRS.

HARDWAY AND LOPEZ ARE YOUNG

RESEARCHERS WHO ARE SOMEWHAT IMPETUOUS AND "FREE SPIRITED."

MR. LUPEZ IS BI-LINGUAL AND HAS MEXICAN/LATIN AMERICAN

APPEARANCE, ALL HSCA STAFFERS FULLY CLEARED.

8.

PLS REPLY IMMEDIATE BY

COB 18 MAY 1978. - EZ, IMPDET. »

ORIG:

C/LA/STB (STURBITTS X9127); COORD:

SA/D0/0 (SHEPANEK),

CI/EXO (HOLMES), OLC; AUTH:

AC/LA/MGSB' (LEHMAN); REL: C/LA

SELREI

...-.i

...

H# 53199 DocId: 32347763 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

STAFF

78 0713565

PAGE 003

TOT:

171906Z

MAY 78

DIRECTOR 224314

(WARREN): CL BY: 029163.

END OF MESSAGE

HW 53199

DocId: 32347763

Page 4

---

