# docid-32190561

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10253-10112

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

175-DL-109-4778

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

3

SEE FBI 89-43-16028

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 2;4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/19/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32190561

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 8-29-85)

TRANSMIT VIA:

Teletype

Facsimile

X

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

Routine

CONHOSNTIAI

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EF TO

• UNCLAS

Date 2/6/90

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

19

18

19

20

21

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : SAC, DALLAS (175A-109) (C)

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

1E INFORURTION CONTATNER

JOHN F. KENNEDY;

HEREIN IS UNCIASSIPIED EXCEPT

PPSAKA

MHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

00: DALLAS

During

the past eleven months, Dallas has conducted

an extensive review oi the original assassination

(DL 89-43) for information of additional lead

In addition, extensive outside reading of articles,

publications, books, and government reports were reviewed

prior to the interview of CARLOS MARCELLO on 9/6/89.

Nothing

in any Bureau report has provided any reasonable indication of

MARCELLO'S involvement in the captioned

assassination, or that

he assisted OSWALD in the assassination.

There have been

numerous outside publications theorizing a connection between

MARCELLO and the assassination, but none of these theories has

been able to provide substantive proof of MARCELLO'S

involvement.

MARCELLO was interviewed by Buagents on 9/6/89

at the FEDERAL MEDICAL CENTER (FMC), Rochester, Minnesota,

regarding his statements on 2/27/39

that he was "going to

KENNEDY when, he came to Dallas". As expected, MARCELLO denied

making these statements, as well as denying any involvement in

the assassination of President KENNEDY. MARCELLO denied

6-Bureau

Class 946, 903 eas fuck

(2-Legat, London)

2-Los Angeles

Declassity on: ADR (JFK)

2-Minneapolis

2-Dallas

(1-89-43)

(1-175A-109)

TEB/1dj

(14)

Approved:

Transmitted

175-01-109-477

-21

Per

(Number)

(Time)

DocId: 32190561 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 175A-109

MICSNTAL

Knowing OSWALD OF OSWALD'S uncle, DUTCH MURRET. MARCELLO also

denied knowing EDWARD BECKER, or making a statement to BECKER

in 1962 about having President KENNEDY killed.

It was the opinion of the agents conducting the

interview of MARCELLO that he was clear and lucid at the time

of the interview, although he would, at times, ramble in a

disoriented manner, apparently attempting to get the interview

off track..

Employees at the FMC confirmed MARCELLO would at

times feign being disoriented for his own personal

convenience, but that at other times, he would legitimately be

disoriented. Based on this information, it would appear that

MARCELLO was legitimately disoriented on 2/27/89, thus making

veracity of his statements suspect.

Coincidental to the statements by MARCELLO on

2/27/89, the New Orleans Division advised by teletype dated

3/15/89 that the former Chief of Police and current City

Councilman of New Orleans, JOSEPH GIARRUSO, had received a

phone call from an unidentified female caller with a British

accent.

The caller claimed to have worked part time for an

attorney in New Orleans for a period of two days some time

• between 1966 and 1968.

This caller refused to identify

herself, but did provide a telephone number in England.

The

caller advised GIARRUSO that she remembered typing a letter

for the lawyer and that in the letter money was sent to the

mother of LEE HARVEY OSWALD and that a statement was made in

the letter concerning the KENNEDY assassination.

By airtel dated 9/20/89 Legat, London, advised that

DEBORAH MILLINGTON had been interviewed at Brighton, England,

on 8/31/89, by representatives of NEW SCOTLAND YARD.

MILLINGTON admitted to being the individual who had called

GIARRUSO in March of 1989.

MILLINGTON provided a descriptior

of the attorney for whom she had worked, as well as the

general location of his office. MILLINGION claims to have

been interviewed as a potential witness in the trial of CLAY

SHAW.

The New Orleans Division, by airtel dated 10/3/89,

advised they had no information

regarding MILLINGTON'S status

as a witness in the CLAY SHAW trial, nor did the information

she had provided concerning the location of the attorney's

oftice coincide with the details provided in her interview. (C

2

CONAUZNI

DocId: 32190561 Page 3

No 1 757-01-109-4778

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 175A-109

CONFIDENTIAL

It should be noted that the above allegations byC

MILLINGTON again place the Bureau in the dilemma of being

presented facts 25 years after the event that can neither be

confirmed nor discounted.

Dallas is of the opinion that no

additional investigation in this matter is warranted, in view

of the fact that this subsequent investigation was initiated

based on statements made by MARCELLO while in a semi-coherent

state and that these

statements were subsequently denied by

MARCELLO when interviewed.

In addition, volume upon volume of

investigation has previously been conducted by the Bureau, as

well as various Congressional sub-committees, and none of

these investigations has ever established a positive

connection between MARCELLO and the assassination. Any

further pursuit of this investigation will merely give

appearance of

self-doubt regarding the original and subsequent

investigation (DL 175A-109) relating to captioned matter.

3*

CONFIDENTIAL

NO 1 757-01-109-4778

DocId: 32190561. Page 4

---

