# docid-32327970

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90066-10211

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE: 04/15/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

19.1

DocId: 32327970

22

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19p2 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE 6 (kAr.14-138567

FBI

Date:

4/15/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(ATTENTION: ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

A. ROSEN)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC

NEW YORK (137-9495)

CONE.

INFT,

NY 3936-C

CRIMINAL INFORMANT

ALL INFE MATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO

DATEL - 27-48Y SPEMAC/ISE

(JFK

Source was interviewed at length on 4/11/63 and

furnished the following topical information:

Re:

JACKIMC CARTHY

Source stated MC CARTHY indicated that he knew the

informant had gone to Puerto Rico and was attempting to assist

MC CARTHY sald that the Teamsters and aM HOme

pomisan particular, were crazy to try and help CHAVEZ because CHAVEZ

had taken a contract and killed two revoluntionists in the

Dominican Republic.

In doing this, he incurred the wrath of the

New York criminal element because CHAVEZ handled this contract

at a much cheaper rate than the New York people would have.

MC CARTHY further indicated that CHAVEZ was having labor troubles

with four hotels in San Juan and that one of the hotel owners

hired two killers from New York to murder CHAVEZ, however, this

attempt was unsuccessful.

the contract to kill CHAVEZ because he had been taking contracts

WE CARE plained that me people in ten torna

in the Dominican Republic to murder individuals and they wanted

to do it from here (New York).

MC CARTHY explained further

that CHAVEZ, in contacting these four hotels'he failed he

attempted to receive

a'shakedown

threatened to "break his head"

the criminal element in New York and gave them a contract to

kIl1 CHAVEZ, however, the natter pas subsequently straighined

out.

1,563 Yodestange

Bureau

137-9495 Yule 2-16-605

(5)

1379

XEROX

137-8862-46

APR 26R26

' 28

Approved:

SST-107

22 ARR 23P1963

UNRECORDED

FILED IN

Speci

Charge

DocTA: 32327970

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Informant mentioned to MC CARTHY that he had been

handling a possible investment for the criminal element in

Haiti and he stated that there were a lot of people who would

pay money to have DUVALIER, the president of Haiti, murdered.

MC CARTHY asked the informant if he were serious and when he

replied that he was, MC CARTHY advised that he would speak

to some people concerning a contract to kill DUVALIER.

Informant advised he fed MC CARTHY this story hoping that

MC CARTHY would disclose the individuals in New York who

will assassinate for a price.

Re:

SAL

GRANELLO

Informant stated he contacted SAL GRANELLO and

JIMMY! DOYLE and advised them of the results of his trip to the

Dominican Republic, and the revolutionary attempt of DE JOIE,

the former prime minister of Haiti. He told GRANELLO that

DE JOIE requested $20,000 immediately to purchase arms and food

and that when he told

them this, both GRANELLO and DOYLE backed

off temporarily from the possible establishment of gambling

operations in Haiti®

CAL!

CALIE

Re:

BEN DRANOW and GEORGE

BURRIS

Source advised that he received the following

information from DAVE WENGER: concerning the activities of DRANOW

and BURRIS in a california SEporation:

He said that there is a loft in Los Angeles

approximately two square blocks in length owned by JAMES HOFFA,

BEN DRANOW and GEORGE BURRIS. Each had a one-third

interest.

DRANOW was scheduled for prison and requested money immediately

from BURRIS. BURRIS gave DRANOW $375,000 from this corporation

and DRANOW gave up his interest except for ten per cent.

BURRIS is presently frantically tempting to secure a second

mortgage on this property since by paying DRANOW he has put the

corporation in jeopardy and does not want to antagonize HOFFA.

-? -

DocId: 32327970 Page 3

---

## Page 4

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Source advised he had no further information on this' matter.

Re:

ence lanes us

Source advised that there will be little chance of

individuals. He stated that at present he is negotiating with

an individual named PHIL/GORDON from Dallas, Texas, who is a

legitimate businessman and has obtained financing from MURCHESON

and several other big oil men in Texas.

GORDON has indicated

nine Rete to dales the he are resent ya atten ting to

satisfy the creditors of Lence Lanes, providing LENCE

and the she conte di che that hang corport to deal.

and the source.

Re:

Club

300

Source advised that he has no further specific

information concerning the Teamsters Pension loan to the Club 300

at this time, however, he stated he would review the material

in his office and would subsequently discuss this matter.

Re:

MORRIS

EMANUEL I'

Source advised that he could notrecall the specific

dates when DAVIS WENGER or HERBERT COHN met with EMANUEL in

Chicago nor could he identify the hotels. He stated, however,

that from

a review of his travel expenses and credit cards, he

would be able to furnish specific information in this matter

at a later date.

Source advised that HERBERT COHN was in contact with

EMANUEL on 4/11/63. EMANUEL advised him that at that time he had

FRANK"MELI's file on his desk. This matter concerned MELI's

List

-3, -

DocId: 32327970 Page 4

---

## Page 5

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

personal use of a union automobile. EMANUEL advised COHN that

he would do anything on this file that was requested of him.

He said he would handle it in any way he was instructed. Informant

advised that he flew to Philadelphia on 4/11/63 to meet with

WILLTAM BUFALINO, MELI's son-in-law.

Prior to that time, he

calTed HERB COHN who advised him of his conversation with

EMANUEL. When he saw BUFALINO, he asked BUFALINO what they

desired done about this. BUFALINO told him that he did not want

to meet EMANUEL, did not want EMANUEL's file and did not want

the informant to get EMANUEL's file for him. He requested the

informant to do nothing on this matter., Informant also passed

along information to BUFALINO that he had received from

EMANUEL through COHN. This information indicated that "Chuckie"

O"BRIEN was about to be indicted in Nashville. Informant

advised he did not know how EMANUEl received information on

this matter. He said that BUFALINO did not comment on it.

Source advised that in order to remove himself from

EMANUEL, he contemplates introducing EMANUEL to JACK MC CARTHY.

He said that he will tell MC CARTHY that EMANUEL will be in a

position to assist MC CARTHY as well as himself and that he is

too busy to handle EMANUEL's in-person and telephonic contacts.

He feels that MC CARTHY will be agreeable to this matter and he

contemplates inviting MC CARTHY to lunch with EMANUEL while

EMANUEL is in New York.

Source further advised

that EMANUEL indicated to COHN

on the phone that when he comes to New York next week he wants

$1,000.

Re:

BERNARD

"SPINDEL

Source advised that he is meeting SPINDEL this date

and will ask SPINDEL to make for him a transmittor which SPINDEL

claims can be hidden in a person's belt.

He stated thathe will

further discuss with SPINDEL the possibilities of obtaining the

gold bullion in Puerto Rico.

-

DocId: 32327970 Page 5

---

## Page 6

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Re: Kickbacks or "Green"

Informant advised that within the past two years, he

has personally handled approximately $350,000 in "green" which

he has distributed to various individuals. He said that this

"green" is all cash and that in addition to the cash payments,

he has also distributed "green" by check. Informant advised

that he has a personal account of his "green" payments and

will make these available in the near future. He stated that

the check payments will entail a rather lengthy review, but he

will also make the check payments in "green" available.

Re:

Eastern Airlines

USA

Source advised that it was possible that he misunderstood

the questions originally put to him concerning a possible payoff

by Eastern Airlines officials to end a strike.

He stated that

he did not recall having said that Eastern Airlines officials

paid $150,000 to settle a strike and has no personal knowledge

of any payoff in this matter.

Re: Mortgage Companies Dealing

in Foreign Loans

Source advised that the Teamsters Pension Fund,

as well as other Pension plans are forbidden by law to make

foreign loans. He stated, however, that he feels HAROLD GIBBONS

is vitally interested in this matter and should GIBBONS ever

bring the Teamsters back into the AFL-CIO and himself be put in a

position of control, GIBBONS would set up mortgage companies

into which union money would be poured and eventually funnelled

into foreign corporations to assist, as the source puts it,

"the Communist conspiracy". The informant stated it is his firm

belief that HAROLD GIBBONS is an avowed Communist.. He gets this

impression from his personal conversations with GIBBONS and from

the conversations of other individuals concerning GIBBONS.

- 5

DocId: 32327970 Page 6

---

## Page 7

'Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44-USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

OFFICIAL OF INTERNATINAL BROTHERHOOD OF TERRISTERE

Informant advised that GEORGE BARACH, anIl official

in New Jersey, has, on a small scale, done exactly this. BARACH

has control over three locals and has set up a mortgage or

loan company in Fairlawn, New Jersey. The unions funnell money

into this company and this company in turn lends this money

to many borrowers not normally allowed under State and Federal

regulation. Informant said that since BARACH in addition to

controlling the unions also controls the company in Fairlawn,

New Jersey, he is in an ideal position to obtain "green" on

these loans.

Re: Alleged Corruption of

Internal Revenue Agents

by HERB COHN

Informant advised that he has not yet learned the

names of the Internal Revenue agents who are allegedly on HERB

COHN's payroll, but stated he will talk to COHN after he files

his tax return and

I will tell COHN he anticipates, trouble.

He feels that COHN will then put him in touch with someone in

- Internal Revenue who will help him regarding his tax return.

Re: Alleged Telephone

Tap on the Attorney

General's Office

Source advised that he has learned nothing further

on this matter.

He stated that to the best of his knowledge,

BOLTE has not had a conference with the Attorney General and

therefore informant has been unable to press BERNARD SPINDEL

on this matter.

Re: Alleged NYC Police

Inspector Who is a

"Friend" of the Criminal

Element

Source advised that he has discussed the need for a

-6 -

DocId: 32327970 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

NYINY

contact an the Police Department with "Eddie Buff" (true name

EDWARD LANZARA, a close associate of PETE UE FEO.

Indicated that if the need arose, he could helly

BUFF

the informant

with officials of the Police Department

RE:

BILLY

BORMAN

N'

Source advised that BILL BORMAN is a jury clerk in

the ted alerte BORN BORMACE1182 rought done apulate

favorable judge. Informant advised that he had a minor matter

in a Federal Court and requested BORMAN for a specific judge

whom he felt would be friendly to his case. He said that he

paid BORMAN $100.00 for this favor nd he has heard among

discussions with fellow attorneys that BORMAN will perform this

service for certain attorneys.

It is to be noted that BILL BORMAN

is not in a position to manipulate the trial calendar and most

likely is getting this money under false pretenses.

The USA or

his assistances are the only ones in a position along with the

head Federal Judge of the District Court that set up the trial

calendar.

Re: Gambling in Boundries

Outside, the United States

Source adyised that he has discussed gambling in

MeXICO WIth RUSSEL BUEALINO, PETE DE FEO and JIMMY DOYLE.

He stated that he told DOYLE that he would be extremely interested

in being a participant in the ownership of a gambling

establishment in Acapulco, Mexico. He was told by DOYLE that

there are three factions who handle gambling activities; one

is in as Vegas, one possibly in Chicago and the other belonging

to MOE DALIIZ in Cleveland.

He was told by DE FEO that there

was a possibility that he, the informant, could form a fourth

faction and all four factions could become partners in a gambling

establishment in Acapulco, Mexico. DE FEO told him that he

would have to make some contacts before any deal could be made

firm. DE FEO also indicated that the Mexican Government is

"shakey" in regard to allowing further gambling operations in

Acapulco.

-7=

DocId: 32327970

Page 8

---

## Page 9

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Re:

JAM.

PLUMERI Tax Case

Source advised that he has not discussed this matter

with PLUMERI.

He said that PLUMERI is returning to New York

on Monday, 4/15/63, at which time he will discuss this particular

matter with him.

Re:

WILLIAM E

RABIN

Source advised that he does not know RABIN personally,

but has spoken

to him three times on the phone. Each time

RABIN contacted him in an attempt to locate NICK TORZESKI

TORZESKI owes RABIN money on a few deals and the informant

heard that RABIN was indicted in Chicago. He said that when

RABIN was indicted, NICK TORZESKI tried to break all his ties

with him.

Re:

EVERETT DIRKSEN

1L.

4201.

MASS, AUE, WAShINGTON, D.L.

Informant advised that he has no further pertinent

information concerning a possible political contribution to

DIRKSEN from the Teamsters.

Re: Teamsters Pension Fund

Informant was questioned concerning a Teamsters Pension

loan to the father of JIMMY HOFFA's son-in-law.

He said he had

received only a smattering of information on this matter from

DAVE WENGER. WENGER told him that HOFFA's 'son-in-law went to

HOFFA and asked for a loan for his father's factories in St.

Louis. The loan was approved and paid….

DAVE PROVINE, Teamsters

attorney, told HOFFA that this was a possible conflict of interest

and could lead to serious trouble. Informant

advised that he knew

nothing further on this matter.

DocId: 32327970 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

Informant was questioned concerning property in

Florida owned by BURRIS and KOVIN which was allegedly pledged

twice for separate loans. He stated he had no further

information on this matter other than that which was previously

furnished.

Re:

SAUL? GELIMAN

Informant advised that he has only a slight

acquaintanceship with GELTMAN and could not verify GELTMAN's

claim that he was a former Assistant United States Attorney in

New York. He stated that he was not involved in the sheraton-

Tenney loan at La Guardia Airport, and consquently could give

NY

no further information

concerning this matter.

Re: FRANK TORTORICI

allegedly made my fRANK TORTOR Can an 22 caten officials

receive a fifteen per cent kickback from contractors for building'

medical centers for the union. He stated he had no further

information on this matter other than the above statement by

TORTORICI.

Re:

JAMES HOFFA

Informant was questioned concerning statements

allegedly made by HOFFA to DAVE WENGER that he wanted WENGER to

bring in more "green".

He stated that WENGER is presently pushing

for "green" but he does not know if WENGER's attempts to get more

money are connected with the comments made by HOFFA.

€

DocId: 32327970 Page 10

---

## Page 11

"Released under the Jöhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY137-9495

Re: PHI

WEISS

Informant advised that while speaking to JACK

MC CARTHY, MC CARTHY told him that since the Bakersfield,

California deal would not go through, he would like to

get a new mortgage for WEISS to be put through at the

June meeting of the Board of the Teamsters Pension Fund.

Concerning MC CARTHY's discussion with informant

set out heretofor attempts will be made to ascertain the

identity of long distance telephone calls made from JACK

MC CARTHY's office at 400 Madison Avenue, on 4/11/63.

Informantmade available two attache cases containing

voluminous correspondence concerning mortgages he has put

through or attempted to put through the Teamsters Pension

Fund.

Photostats of this material are currently being made

in the NYO and upon completion of this work,

the files

will be returned to the informant. Examination of these

documents will be commenced and a

series of logical questions

developed for the informant.

He stated that at the time

further discussion is held on these loans,

he will furnish

details of "green"involved in these loans.

Source was interviewed at great length concerning

ther

'LaGuardia Motel. Details concerning the source's

involvement In this transaction will be furnished the Bureau

by separate communication. However, for information of the

RAMANO TABLE GERMANE Ma ConNA the fOllowing concering congressman

REN CONSOLAEING ARE CHICANS

WAShINGTON, DE m

Source advised he first met Congressman ST. GERMAINE

in the source's office.

He said that ST. GERMAINE Came UP

there one afternoon and spent the whole day with him.

While

there,

ST. GERMAINE attempted to make a pass at the

informant's

friend

"SCOTTY"

who is employed in the

office.

He stated that the congressman drank very heavily

and that evening the informant arranged to get a girl for

the night for ST. GERMAINE.

During the course of their

conversation, ST. GERMAINE told the informant that he considered

the informant an innocent kid.

He told him he should go around

to various unions and ask them if it is necessary to pay "green"

to get a morgage. ST. GERMAINE said that many unions do not

-1Q -

deve

DocId: 32327970

Page 11

---

## Page 12

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 137-9495

deal in "green" so they could, there reen i the montage

money and still charge the borrowers

Concerning

himself, Congressman ST. GERMAINE said,

"They think I'm

dumb, but I'm smart.

I have a perfect

in because I fly

with BOBBY KENNEDY every other weekend to Rhode Island."

Informant advised that subsequently he used the congressman's

office in washington to make telephone calls and meet with people

Pike DAM MAHER

concerning pension loans.

Informant advised

that sometime in November, 1962, he received a call Iron

ST. GERMAINE who complained about ANGELO. He said the

congressman shouted on the phone,

told him to get in touch with his law partner, ANGELO DISPIRITO.

the LaGuardia

sara Motel deal,

informant advised that JACK RASSNER was one of the prime movers

in this deal. He stated he recently he met with RASSNER

-änd ALMINTZER RASSNER asked the informant if they could

still get the money for the LaGuardia Motel from the Teamsters.

RASSNER said, "We can make a deal with Judge SUGARMAN (Federal

I have it ait

Jude SUGARMAN

Informant gend he stated,

"What do you mean it's all arranged?if we get the mortgage,

Will MINTZER go back in. "Informant said RASSNER replied,

"We dod not know,

but if we can get the mortgage, SUGARMAN

will play ball with us and give us back the deal. He'll take

it out of trusteeship to protect the investors' supposedly.

Informant wanted

to know what RASSNER would have to do on a

deal like that.

He replied,

"We can only pay you eight points

instead of eleven.

Informant asked RASSNER what happens to

the rest of the money.

RASSNER replied,

"Don't ask.

what we need."

Informant advised he did not know anything

further concerning this matter and since the loanhas not

gone through, there seems to be no possibility of obtaining

further information along these lines at this time.

Re:

JACK

PEARLMAN (ph)

Informant described PEARLMAN as an individual

who is constantly calling on him attempting to secure second

mortgages. He said PEARLMAN is an ex-fighter who claims

shave connections with the "Mafia"

, JIMMY HOFFA, and Judge

Through PEARLMAN,

Judge SCHWEITZER

and LESTER YOUDENFRIEND, his law associate. YOUDENFRIEND,

SCHWETTZER, any PEARIMAN went to Chicago to witness

-I₽-

DocId: 32327970

Page 12

---

## Page 13

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

NY: 137-9495

heavyweight fight. YOUDENFRIEND subsequently told him

that Judge SCHWEITZER had indicated to YOUDENFRIEND that

through him deals could be made on cases in the NY

criminal courts. Informant advised that last week, PEARLMAN

came to his office and told him that the case involving

the Sire Plan operated by ALBERT MINTZER is being heard by

Judge SCHWEITZER. PEARLMAN said he can fix this case

with the judge.

Informant advised PEARLMAN that he did

not want to get involved in a deal like this and he suggested

that PEARLMAN contact MINTZER directly.

It is anticipated that source will be available

for interview

for a short time on 4/15/63.

EXTREME CARE MUST BE EXERCISED IN DISSEMINATION

OF MATERIAL FURNISHED BY THIS INFORMANT.

-12-

SORERSON

DocId: 32327970

Page 13

---

