# docid-32165526

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

ДДКБ411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit. JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10158-10051

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3212

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: LEG, MX

TO

: DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: No Titlel

DATE

: 04/15/1964

PAGES

1

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECIS : WC, ADMIN, INFORMANT

CLASSIFICATION

: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Doc'ta/1y41853924cgi-piagarfinder/8542jfksnew.bt

1/1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

SONRILANILIAL

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

• AIRGRAM

DECOD

ED

SEGRE

xx CABLEGRAM

Ó RADIO

• TELETYPE

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

URGENT 4-15-64

TO DIRECTOR

FROM LE GAT MEXICO CITY NO. 548

ATION CONTAINED

LCIASSIFIED

ARE SHORIN

BUFILE 105-82555.

LEE HARVE

OSWALD, IS-R-CUBA. FOLLOWING

IS DAILY SUMMARY.

RE STATEMENTS OF ROBERT KAFFKE AND BUCAB 26 APRIL 6 LAST.

SOURCE AT MEXICO CITY TIMES ADVISED FRIEND OF ARNOLD KESSLER

ON STAFF THAT PAPER RECEIVED LETTER FROM LATTER TODAY

FURNISHING RETURN ADDRESS CARE OF RIMBALSKY, RUA RIBEIRO

DE LIMA 236 APARTMENT 34, BOM RETIRO, SAO PAULO, BRAZILO

FOREGOING FOR ASSISTANCE LEGAT, BRAZIL IF KESSLER NOT

PREVIOUSLY LOCATED.

(4)

RE REPRESENTATWES PRESIDENTIAL COMMISSION LEGAT LIAISON

WITH MINISTRY OF GOVERNMENT DEVELOPED INFORMATION YESTERDAY

THAT INFORMANT.MEX-192 HAD BEEN DESIGNATED TO PREPARE MEXICAN

GOVERNMENT REPORT REQUESTED BY COMMISSION. WILL FOLLOW AND

REPORT DEVELOPMENTS.

' ADDITIONAL SUMMARY

-TOMORROW.

0.9

ATL

NEREIN

OTHERWISE

DEOTASEIPIED BY SebS-SLOuc

CLARK D. ANDERSON

RECEIVED: 10:23 PM NCC

12/22/82

ARK" I 6 1964

AFPROPRIATE ACTNC:

AND FIELD OTE'OES

ADVISED BY ROL

RING. 0

SLIP (S) OF A

DATE

• NADERE: JFK

2.10

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

Classified by

Exempt from CDS Category MEC17

10882555-3012

Date of Declassification Indefinate

But Co Did BENNAM

2/13/770F

144 SECRET

CONT

ENTIAD

2019649

Indence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

oaraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

0cId: 32165526

Page

2

---

