# docid-32322260

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

3/31/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10379-10051

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3758

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/19/1998

2

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322260

244

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(1231/1995)

434

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE 04/02/1998

Date: 03/19/1998

To :

Houston

Attn: Elizabeth Norwood

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force,

Rm. 11144

Contact:

Pauline E. Battle, Ext. 0664

approved By: Keeley Cal calm

Drafted By: Battle Pauline

EpCh

3758

Case ID #: 62C-HQ-1029205 - (Pending)

Title; John F. Kennedy Records Collection Act

of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis:

The Act established the Assassination Records Review-

Board (ARRB) to oversee the government's production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act will allow or opens the document in full.

The ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1998.

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

Details: On February 10, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting förth a formal request

to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and/to assure

Congress

and the American public that all was done to

accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized as an

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

form.

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If Houston believes there

office needs a copy, they should copy the documents or material

before

sending to the JFK Task Force..

Please locate and forward the following file: 92B-H0-

• 31980. Forward file to the JFK Task Force, Attention:

Pauline E.

Battle, Room 11144.

DocId: 32322260 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• ¡ IO:

Houston

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

• Re: 62C-HQ-1029205, 03/19/1998

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

TO HOUSTON

AT HOUSTON

Locate and forward the following file: 92B-H0-31980.

Please forward file to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention: Pauline

E. Battle, room 11144. The results should be received at FBIHO no

later than C.O.B. 04/02/98. If you have any questions, please

call Pauline Battle at (202) 324-0664.

- Carol L. Keeley, Room 11144

1

- LuAnn Wilkins,

Room 11144

1 - Pauline E. Battle, Room 11144

2

DocId: 32322260

Page

---

