# docid-32334349

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90116-10055

RECORD SERIES : NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3395-160

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

03/31/1965

PAGES:

19

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

N 53074

DocId: 32334349

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

TE 487166 21-88)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

"MINUTEMEN"

DATE

3/32/65

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/13/65 - 3/9/65

REPORT MADE BY

SA STEPHEN M. CALLENDER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

TYPED DY

:jed

REFERENCES

Kansas City letter to Bureau, 12/18/64.

New Orleans airtel and. letterhead memo to Bureau,

1/21/65.

New Orleans airtels to Bureau 1/22/65, 2/3/65,

2/23/65.

Bureau airtel to Albany,

3/23/ INFORMATION CONTAINED

CREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

INFORMANTS:

DAIE 12/22/83 BY SP&RT/Cha.

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

LOCATION OF INFORMATION

• NOT-1 18 FORREST THOMPSON,

62-3395-102

Postmaster, Richmond, Missour1

NOT -2 IS NO 1271-R

62-3395-106,116,118,

12-3399-14129, 130, 132, 135

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE: •

7-Bureau (62-107261) (RM)

1 - U.S. Secret Service,.

New Orleans (RM)

1 - 112th ICE, New Orleans (RM)

I- OSI, Barksdale AFB, Bossier

City, La. (RM)

_ - ONI,

Kansas City

Now Orleans

(62-53053 (RM)

SSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REFORT

DO NOT WRITE, IN SPACES BELOW

62

3395

Searched--

Sertalized=

Indexed.

Callent 8

-pet

NOTATIONE

AGENCY

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FUD.

HOW FWD.

BY...

HH 53074 DocId:32334349 Page 2

U.B. BOYEANXENT PAINTING OFFICE

10-78334-1

---

## Page 3

NO 62-3395

LEADS

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

AT BOGALUSA, LOUISIANA

(1) Will maintain contact with NO 1271-R and other

'unit.

ALBERT APPRENT 1 road ten Bertain 1r €h18

group is connected in any manner with the national organization

of which ROBERT DE PUGH of Norborne, Missouri, 1s the National

• Coordinator.

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

Will report results of investigation presently being

conducted at Natchitoches, Louisiana, in regards to'L. ROSS and

at New Orleans in regards to BEULAH F. MOORE and ALBERT B. JOY.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The indices of the New Orleans Office contain no

information identiflable with L. ROSS or BEULAH F. MOORE whose

names are set forth in the details of this report.

Ihis information indicates that HARRY E. HILL,

JR:: P.O. BOX 102, Mooringsport, Louisiana, directed a letter

to

the FBI In Shreveport informing that he was attempting

to organize a group known as the

"Peacemaker Organization"

and that this would be a patriotic group.

indicated

that as a result he had

subscribed to the"worker" for

research purposes only and stated that he had been fighting

communism for four years as a Christian anti-communist

crusader.

May, 1960, the

New York Office furnished informatior

that copies. of

the "worker" were being sent to the "Peacemaker

i Organizations" P.O. Box 182, Mooringsport, Louisiane peacemaker

file further

reveals printed material regarding the

Organization: which was provided by the Dallas Office.

B

(COVER PAGE)

HH

53074

DocId: 32334349

Page 3

---

