# docid-32307983

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Att of 1992 (11 U50 2909-10954.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10341

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-2105

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: REED, CARLYLE N.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/11/1967

• PAGES: 22

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, WI, ORGANIZATION, LEADERSHIP,

CRIMINAL ACT, CONSPIRATORIAL ASPECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: ' INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9.1

DocId: 32307983 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 8D-265 (ROV-9-17-85)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PORTING OFFICE

MILWAUKEE

TILE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA COSA NOSTRA; aka

DATE

9/11/67

REPORT MADE BY

SA CARLYLE N, REED

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVI PERIOD

8/29 - 9/8/67

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

duz

TO BUREAU:

TO NEW YORK:

TO CHICAGO:

REFERENCES

Bureau airtel to New York, 8/11/67;

Report of SA CARLYLE N. REED, Milwaukee, 6/3/66.

-P-

ENCLOSURES

Two copies of a letterhead

memorandum characterizing

informants

utilized in this report.

One copy of a letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants

utilized in this report.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

NONE

Case has been: Pending over one year [i Yes No; Pending prosecution over six months O Yes l No

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3

- Bureau (92-6054) (IAN) (AM- RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES DELOW

92-6054-62105

REG- 66

1 - Chicago (92-1173) (Enc.1) (Info) (RM)

2 - New York (92-23000) (Enc.2) (AM-RM)

4 - Milwaukee (92-262)

Diszemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency.

Request Recd.

Date Fwd:

How Fwd.

By

DocId: 32307983 Page 2

WINE

PAT. /SECT.

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hite,

DATE: 11-14-2017

MI 92-262

LEADS

THE MILWAUKEE DIVISION

Will follow activities of the LCN in Wisconsin through

informants,

sources and other investigation, and will keep other

offices and the Bureau advised of

any pertinent developments

with appropriate recording of data in instant file in

l the mllwaukee

Division for future reference and utilization in

Feborting:

INFORMANTS

concerning informants utilized in this report, details

are not

being set out as to the identities of the

contacting

in each instance,

since this information

appears

files to which the information pertains

in the informant

as well

number where located.

the

wInt

serial

Identity

MI T-1 is MI 623-6-TE

MI T-2

is MI 623-C-TE

Location

MI 137-1318

MI 137-1318

(Two T symbols used for

this valuable informant to

further protect his identity)

MI T-3 is OM-148-PC

MI T-4 is SD-1064-C-TE

MI T-5 is MI 656-C-TE

MI T-6 is MI 607=C

MI T-7 is MI 691-C

MI 92-262-1106

MI 92-262-1117

MI 137-1586

MI 137-660

MI 137-1658

ADMINISTRATIVE

One information copy of instant report designated for

Chicago in view of contacts

between members of

Wisconsin and Illinois

territory covered by the be da bizigion

as well as reported ties between the Milwaukee and Chicago Lc

families.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307983 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. kennery Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 ust 2107 Kure,

DATE: • 11-14-2017 •

MI 92-262

SECURITY OF INFORMANTS

New York airtel to the Bureau and auxiliary offices, dated

5/16/66, set out certain suggestions regarding uniform reporting in

the Membership Section of reports prepared by auxiliary offices.

To the extent possible, New York's recommendations have been

followed with certain

exceptions, as explained below:

Milwaukee's report is set out alphabetically as to

members within the breakdowns of the several LCN families identi-

fied.

..This is done to avoid repetition after each member's name

is listed. Likewise, the best source is set out at the beginning

of the listing of members by familles.

T symbols, räther than informant symbol numbers

have been used in referring to the best source of membership.

In this regard Milwaukee's best source of all memberships is

MI 623-C-TE, who has been given I-l and T-2 symbols to further

identity in the listings of members.

It should also

be noted that this informant is probably the best source of the

Rockford, Illinois LCN family membership and in some instances

If MI 623-C-TE were to be identified as such in both Milwaukee

compromise and jeopardy of his personal safety, especially in

view of his close ties with members of the Rockford family and

his LCN membership and identity with the Milwaukee family. To

Iuther protect MI 623-C-TE, his identity under I symbols in

the details will not show that he is a member of the Milwaukee

family in view of possible dissemination of this report..

The initial period of instant report predates referenced

Milwaukee report, since some informant information received prior

to the date of referenced report was not available when that

report was prepared.

INFORMATION EXCLUDED FROM DETAILS OF REPORT

The following information is being set out in the

Administrative Pages of instant report to insure that the

Identity of MI 623-C_TE (MI T-I and MI I-2) is not compromised.

To report this information in the details along with the possi-

bility of dissemination of this report

, could logically compromise.

this informant.

Accordingly this information is of necessity

confined to the Administrative Pages.

This information is broken

down into sections to correspond with the manner it would other.

wise be set out in the details.

•C .

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307983 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Recorus CoTTection Aet OI 1992 194 05C 2107 Horey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MI 92-262

IV. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

Plot to "Hit" FRANK PETER BALISTRIERI

During the past year, MI T-l has reported a number of

VITO AIELLO,

in the Milwaukee LCN family, whoare extremely unhappy with the

one-man dictatorial rule of

this family by the boss, Frank peler

BALISTRIERI •

According to MI I-1, MARINO and the AIELLOs were

talking seriously of a "hit" on BALISTRIERI to get him out of

the way and have a turno (meeting) of the family membership

to select a new boss. Those three members were urging infor

mant to do the job on BALISTRIERI which informant declined to

have any part of and suggested that BALISTRIERI might go to

prison when sentenced (9/18/67) on his Federal income

conviction (BALISTRIERI was convicted 3/23/67, in USDC, SDI,

at Springfield, Illinois).

In most recent discussions, MARINO, the AIELLOS, and

several other disgruntled Milwaukee LCN members have been

talking in terms of a turno of the Milwaukee family members

to vote on ousting BALISYRIERI from his position as boss

rather than resort to violence to get BALISTRIERI out of the way.:

Regarding MI T-l's previously reported information

of 5/4/65, that AUGUST CHIAVEROTTI and WALTER "BLACKIE"

BROCCA,

Milwaukee hoodlums but not LCN members, had incurred the wrath

of FRANK PETER BALISTRIERI over business and financial matters

to the extent they feared for their lives, informant noted in

the past year that CHIAVEROTTI and BROCCA returned to Milwaukee

from the West Coast where they took refuge and obtained jobs.

Informant said that since returning to Milwaukee, they have

been seen with BALISTRIERI and apparently are no

longer in BALI-

STRIERI's disfavor.

-F*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307983 Page 5

---

