# docid-32334109

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90110-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Released under the Johr

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45876 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ROSEN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/27/1961

2

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

18

v9.1

HH

45876

DocId: 32334109

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NGO. 10

"UNITED STATES GOVEP VENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Belmont

FROM

A.

Rosen

SUBJECT:

JEK ACt 6 (4)

DATE: July 27, 1961

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohi -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evang:—

Curren

Maion 1

Tavel _

Trotter -

Tele. Room -

Ingram -

Gandy

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF

STOLEN PROPERTY - TOP JEWEL THIEF

confidential informant of the Miami Office since

7/19/60, has advised of an alleged scheme to defraud through the inflation of

across-the-counter stocks and the disposal of these stocks at an inflated price.

has identified the frincipal individual involved in this

scheme as Arthur

Freedman, a Miami/attorney, reportedly a friend and

associate of Sampray, Miami Beach millionaire-financier who is an associate

of criminals. This informant states that Freedman is alleged to have inflated

the value of three stocks by selling and buying to his own interest at a cost

to him of reported $60,000. These stocks were described as the American

International (Baltimore, Maryland), a utility company stock of Tampa,

Florida, and the fransportation Research and Development Company stock

eil, 5

whose home office is unknown.

These stocks are all across-the-counter

stocks with a paper value in excess of one million dollars; however, there

are no buyers of these stocks at that value.

JEK Law 10(a) 2

Newark

New Jersey, who is a possible witness and

subiect in the

case involving

which case has been presented to the Federal Grand Jury in

Florida, reportedly is to dispose of $1, 003, 000 worth of these stocks at an

unknown bank in Boston, Massachusetts. These stocks will be put up as

security on a loan and when the loan is defaulted the stocks. will have little

relative value.

16

REY

further advised that these stocks were allegedly purchased

437-6252-38

originally for approximately one dollar a share and through the buying and

selling of these stocks by Freedman and through his interest they have been

inflated to approximately $10 a share.

A group of individuals involving Ayseid,

PA.

a well-known Pittsburgh racketeer and hoodlum, Joseph Merola, convicted

for the theft and transportation of guns from an armory in Cantons Ohio 28 196)

1 - Informant Desk

Special Investigative Division

JGF: raj

(8)

66 AUG 3

1961

copies made!

2-26-28 536/91

Joseph merele

fof rehew at FBIHQ by

ESCAre L 202f request ol

(See Bufile #62-117290)

6-998

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DARE 2/31/93

LARSIFIED

TA8 SLAGCL

1H 45876

DooId: 32334109 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. Belmont

RE:

JFK Act

6 (4)

who has been out on bail pending his appeal which was denied, Mike Swiatek,

reported Chicago burglar and friend of Merola have offered to dispose of

these stocks for Freedman.

They will dispose of these stocks through Sagal and have

offered Freedman $4 a share for the stocks; however, he is asking $5 a

share. This group contemplates disposal of these stocks through a bank or

as collateral on a loan at between $7 and $8 a share.

The Miami Office has ascertained that the Securities and Exchange

Commission (SEC), Miami, Florida, is investigating the/American Interna-

tional (Baltimore,

Maryland) and contemplates obtaining an injunction against

the sale of the stock of this company within the near future.

ACTION:

Although the above scheme involves possible violations primarily

within the jurisdiction of SEC, the New York, Boston, Miami and Newark

Offices will thoroughly explore all facets of this scheme based on information

supplied by L

in order to completely identify all individuals involved

as well as the companies being used to ascertain whether this scheme

constitutes violation within this Bureau's jurisdiction.. This matter is being

closely followed.

2

45876

DooId:32334109 Page 3

---

