# docid-32303511

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency. Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10023

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

CR 92-3245-21

Released under the John

F. Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case# :NW 45854 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MILLER, SAMUEL A.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 01/07/1963

PAGES:

20

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, REL, AMATO, FRANK, ASSOC, RES, CRIMINAL A/O

POLIT ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32303511

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 92-221

'CASEY" KSZAJ, Braddock; JIM BUTLER, Allegheny County

aSherati's Office, Pittsburgh; and AL EDSTROM, former

council member, Braddock, Pa.

2. Will report results of telephone checks with Bell

Telephone Company of Pennsylvania pertaining to the

following telephone numbers:

Underhill 3-8961

Underhill 3-9973 (coin box)

Brandywine 1-3986

Valley 3-8964

3.

Will examine bank records of FRANK AMATO and FRANK D.

AMATO at the Braddock National Bank, Braddock, Pa.

4. Will examine bank records of FRANK and FRANK D.

AMATO .

Also the Adrilee Motor Motel at the Peoples Bank

and Trust Company, Route 30, North Huntingdon Township.

5. Will check Fictitious Names Registration, Allegheny

County, Pa., to determine whether FRANK AMATO

has sold

his

coin machine distributing company to PETE MARAGOS.

6. Will report results of income tax data being furnished

by the Bureau.

7.

Will interview It. GEBHARDT "BOOTS" READE, Braddock

Police Department, and PG 502-c.

(It is to be noted that

interview of the latter individuals has been delayed

pending further investigation in this case.)

ADMINISTRATIVE

The source at Dun and Bradstreet, Inc.,

5215 Centre

Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa., who furnished information to

SA NORMAN T

• THOMPSON on 10/26/62 is Mrs. JANE M. HELLER,

Receptionist.

-B-

COVER PAGE

HH 45854

DocId: 32303511

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-221

The source at the Gulf Oil Corporation, City Line Avenue,

Philadelphia,

Pa., who furnished intormation to IC EDWARD

A. SHIELDS is S. G. STEINER, Supervisor, Credit Cards,

Eastern Region.

On 11/30/62 Philadelphia advised that Philadelphia

airtel to the Bureau, 6/22/62,

" philadalphia file ba fit, Bustie 9a al

"ANGELO BRUNO,

Pittsburgh file 92-434, contained information pertaining

to FRANK AMATO.

Copies of this communication werenot

previously routed to Pittsburgh file 92-221.

on 12/3/62 the Bureau advised Pittsburgh that copies

JFK Law 11(a)

No leads are being set forth to determine the

identity of all registered owners of vehicles at

the Adrilee Motor Motel which are reflected

in the

details of this report.

INFORMANTS

PCI, Pittsburgh Office.

PG T-1 is

JFK Act 6 (4)

PG T-2 is MM 660-C.

PG I-3 is PG 661-C.

PG T-4 is CARL E. GRZYBOWSKI, Chief of Police,

North Huntingdon Township, Route 30, Pittsburgh, Pa.,

who requested his identity be kept confidential.

PG T-5 is PH 591-0*.

-C-

COVER PAGE

92-3245-21

1(a).

HH 45854

DooId: 32303511

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-221

PG T-6 is

JEK Act 6 (4)

PCI, Pittsburgh Office.

PG T-/ IS JACK P. MC CAULEY, Partner, MCCauley and

McCauley, 171% Tuscarora Street, Pittsburgh,

requested his identity be kept

confidential.

-D*-

COVER

PAGE

HH 45854

DocId: 32303511

Page 4

---

