# docid-32295278

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/2/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10054

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7189-1

Released under the John F.

Act of

Case#: NW 53932 Date:

08-21-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, LA

DATE: 10/23/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FCH, ACCOUNTING ACT, ASSOC, TEAMSTERS UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/06/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N4° 53932 DocId:32295278

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10/23/61

AIRTEL

TO:

SAC, LOS

ANGELES

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

JAMES

RIOPLE HOFFA

FRANK CHATEZ, ala FRANKIE CHAVEZ

TEDDY GLEABON

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(00:LA)

1:4

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan -

Contad

DeLoach -

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

I'rotter

Tele. Room.

Ingrom

56

Reference ismade to the information furnished to your

office by LA 4350-C concerning Frankie Chavez and his alleged

activities on foffa's behalf and concerning the statement that

~Teddy Gleason, New Yorl longshoreman, is a go-between between

John O'Rourke, head of the Teamsters

Union in New York City,

and San Juan interests of Hoffa, as well as the statement that a

lot of money goes through Gleason, who is a "bag man" for Puerto

Rico interests of the Teamsters.

Los Angeles should promptly reinterview the informant

for further details concerning the above.

Efforts should be made

to determine the specific bases for the informant's statements as

-well as

the identities of persons or sources who would be knowledge-

able in these matters and in a position to confirm these statements.

951

As soon as this has been done, Los Angeles should prepare

and forward to the Bureau a letterhead memorandum suitable for

dissemination to the Department.

The identity of the informant

should not be revealed in the letterhead memorandum and all informa-

tion given by him concerning this subject matter, both at the time

he mentioned it originally and upon subsequent/ recontacts, should

be included therein.

No investigation should /be undertaken unless

the Bureau orders sane.

REC

Handle promptly.

- San Juan (Info)

1 - New York (Info)/

MCT - 10

163-2189-1°

weas

189 OCT 24 1961

LA 4350-C is Meyer Mike Singer,

EPISeem

(8) 80°

former Teamsters Union official-in

Los Angeles

who is furnish-

ing information to

Californiaos Angeles office

on an extremely confidential basis..

OCT

* TELETYPE UNIT

2

H# 53932 DooId: 32295278

Page 2

---

