# docid-32346871

## Page 1

Date: 12/13/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

....oo.oo-cc

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10063-10319

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

FBI

FBI/NEW YORK, NY

REPORT: BOOKS FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

02/09/1971

2

SUBJECTS : NUC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/14/93

COMMENTS :

JFK10: F6: 1993.07.14.11:30:07:090530 : PAGES 1 ANI

3 ONLY. REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TF ON 24 MARCH 1994.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10063-10319

NH 50529

DooId: 32346871

Page

1

---

## Page 2

ales

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED STATES DE

IRTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ner Xark, New York 10021

FEB 9 1977

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Books For Cube Coumittee

on May 27, 2510, 11 169

of the Vencerenos Ertzade (VB), apoke about the book 11st

Given to her on the firet VE by the Cubana. She advised

that her nother photostated the entire l16t and sont it to

l angels boyer.

one of the organitars of the books for cuba

carmittee (BEG) •

sandy belleved that her liat wue alfferent than

that Elven to the second brigade and stated that the could

not let it out of her possession.

on May 30, 1970,

the source stated that Angela

Boyer meE questioned about the cuban book 118t wilch wei

sent to her in the mall by sandy Pallack's sother. Angelo

sall she not not empecting this package and thes did not

maner a fost office notioe: ste till, bonever, inguire

about sto

Accordine to the soLve

the y0C was tnable to

progress beyond this paint without incorporating the abars

2257 s1th the othar nctulated ntertal.

COMPTY

GROUP I

DBD-05832

Excluded Izom putonatic

SS COPY

doungrading md

declasalflestion.

Inla document contains nelther recommendatione nor conclusione

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. (FBI) •

It 18 the property

of the FBI and 18 looned to your agency; 1t and 1ts contents ere

not to be distributod outside jour sguacy.

10365

201-145184

HH 50529

DocId: 32346871 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFI

TIAL

Boots For Cutz Cordites

donatione

the stated that the muc has tri'ty

to sixty

chapters throughout the united States.

The kus is an arcanization of

radical Eraduate etudents and

in the Unites beates.

On Jaly 25, 2970, IX I-2 advined that on that

date there me a fund ruleing dinner and party at the Cass

de Los inericas (CDLA) for the third Va.

taited Natious (Chits) eployee sto nas recently declared

Vl persone non frata) and Ruben Franco, in attache of the Chu

it this party Barbara Collins, nba Lived in Dabe for egght

yes e619, uns a mender of due of the vas ma knows several

people tus are sittinE to donate boda to tie sit.

On hugust 3y 1970, MY I-I adviaed that Ortando

ten inret secretart, wia, expressed trenest in seezhe

He expressed cond

carteatty in understanding the united states novement's

tendEnCy tOMErA COlleCtIVE CIIOrtS and prEferE tO sCE a

Last of o1fIcerS=

He stated that he had a "pocial" list

Di baOkE on agricultuE In NiCH CUDE LE verY iNtErested

and he wanted erneone to pict uy this 11at. He sae

paticularly concerned thri there booke do specifically

given to him when callected as they sut be sent direetly

to a certain group In Cube thick se doing e special atady.

In adastion, he all provido as madress of as

Erficial insemination panablet wich he rants sent for the .

the sadie.

He mated that the til dues mit want to be

comerted (by its adáress)» sith Intereet in such Informatios.

on suguet t, 1970, ax to acvined that erlando

PETEITE DIOGUCEd fOUT

Isntú of boake on thus date sharia la

explained should be incarporated into the lists of booke

which sure being prepared fotntly by the sCt end the VB.

CONF

- 3 a

MATTIAL

HH

50529

DocId: 32346871

Page

3

---

## Page 4

Date: 10/18/99

Page:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10063-10319

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

:

FBI

FBI/NEW YORK, NY

REPORT: BOOKS FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

02/09/71

2

NUC

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

07/14/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JFKLO: F6 1993.07.14.11:30:07:090530: PAGES 1 AND 3

ONLY. REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK

TF

ON 24 MARCH 1994.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DooId: 32346871

Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Hey Saxi, Hen Yort 10021

FEB 9

1977

oic 5778-205911

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Books for Gubs Committee

the part oVer at had pollened relati

GURn tO HEr On ThE LITAL VD LY the CUbANA. BuG AdiLBEd

Cangela boyer,

one of the erganisats of the Books for Cuba

Canadttee (B6C).

that Elven to yelled that he not ete that at coate

not let it out of her possession.

sant to ber In the and? by sandy Pallack's sother.

AngelA

add sho mas not aspecting this package and toss uld no

naves a fost Offlea rotiod, She will, however, Ingular

about 1t

According to the souree.

the ICC Mas Inable to

te be a ta pant to us are rating the abort

S3 COPY

CONFIDEATIAL

CROUP I

Ixcinded fion autonatic

dosagrading send

declassification.

DBD-05832

not to be distrlbuted outside your agency.

HH 50529 DocId: 32346871 Page 5

It Is the property

10365

.ir.84

---

## Page 6

DENTIAL

Books For futz Cornittes

Zonatiotse

she stated that the tic has flity to sixty

-banters thronghout the United States.

the kus to an arcantration or

taurent tractate eutcenta ant

pratansors on univeraity campuss:

iz ths Inited states.

On Jaly 25, 1970, IX 3-2 advieed that on that

date there nas a fund tulsing dinner and putty Me tha Lab:

de Los AreTicus (ChLA) for the third va, Among those present

MorE Hogello Rodriguez (Fermerly & CabanCe Nietion tothe

mited bations (Cuds) inployee sia nan recently declared

¡peraore nos trate and Buben Franco.

in attache of the Call

it this party Barhar COLInS, 700 ViveL I7 4018 201 FEM

New York tetaphone sunber

people ena are silline to doneto boota to the ECt.

On August 3, 1970, MY I-I advious that Ortendo

Pereity First secretary, CHUl, expressed Interest in seeing

thE BCC FarE structired and tidenei.

cartealty in understending the lalted States sovement is

tendency tonid collective offorts and prefers to see a

List of offseRTS.

He stated thet he had a "spectal" list

of books on agriculture in tilch Cabe 15 vary interested

and he wanted noneone to pick up this 11at. Hs 1as

particularly concerned tunt these books be specifically

alven to him when callected es they sunt be sent directly

to a certala group In dubo rates le dottis e spectal stady.

tho Isz115.

comtected (by 1ts adáress), sath interest In such Infaraatios.

In anguet b, 2910 fs Ind adrieed trat erlan

POTEITE DIOGUCEO LOUI

lets of booke on that outs nic 1

explained shaald be incarparated lato the litte of booke

which sure being prepared tolntly by the sec and the VB.

GONE.

-3.

MARTIAL

tiW

50529

DocId: 32346871

Page

6

---

