# docid-32989739

## Page 1

File #:

62-/17220

SECTIaN 3

Serial Scope:

L82X, 182,/83 L5TNR 185, 193

197X THRW IST NR 197:X/

200, 201

204 THRO 206

208

: 209X THRU 209X4

: 214,216,220,221,223

HHT

55025

DooId:32989739

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-36

$ 27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile •

[x] Airtel

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

+ -0

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

[ Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

Asoc. Dir...

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv.-

Asst. Dir.i-

lAdm. Serv

/Crima. Inv.-

! Fin. & Pers-

CLEAR

Ident.

Intell.-

5/12/77

Ichoratory.

Date

Legal Coun

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

- Fian E Inspu.

Rec. Mgni.

(ATTENTION:

GID, CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT)

Spec. Inv.

Tech. Servs

SAC, LOUISVILLE (66-2612)

Training-

Public Alfs. Olf.

Telephone kim

Disector's Sed'y-

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

‚Re Bureau telephone call to Louisville, 5/12/77.

Pursuant to request of Supervisor JOHN C. LAWN,

file captioned "UNSUB; ATTEMPTED BOMBING OF PERSONALLY

OWNED AUTOMOBILE OF SERGEANT BRENT HARDIN, Louisville,

Kentucky, Police Department, 12/10/64; BOMBING MATTERS"

(Bufile 157-2371) (LS 157-251),has been thoroughly reviewe

na copies of art communications gontained therein whic

ave not previously been furnished the Bureau are enclose

herewith and described as follows: RE26 62=117290-223

Louisville teletype to Indianapolis dated 4/23/69;

Indianapolis airtel to Louisville dated 4/25/69;

Louisville letter to Indianapolis dated

| 4/29/69:

Louisville letter to Indianapolis dated 6/26/69.

Bureau note that only other information conta Med20.1977

in Louisville file consists of sundry local newspaper

clippings and letters transmitting letterhead memoranda

Secret Service, Louisville, Kentucky.

ENCLOSURE

N

122 copies made

Or reView at FBINQ b

VSC-A Connittee

Old

2

Bureau (Enc. 4)

- Louisville

(1 - 157-251)

EVA: Imt

(4)

7N JUN

Approved:

9 1977

122221 is

190

NH 55025 DocId:32989739 Page

RATHOD

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

GRO: 19770-225-539

---

## Page 3

FD-36(9g415-27-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

RAID TOGRAM

FBI

Date:

4/23/69

CODE

(Type in plaintext or code)

URGENT

(Priority)

to;

FROM:

INDIANAPOLIS

LOUISVILLE (157-251) (P) .

UNSUB; ATTEMPTED BOMBING OF PERSONALLY. OWNED AUTOMOBILE

OF SERGEANT BRENT HARDIN, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY POLICE DEPT.,

DEC. TEN, SIXTY FOUR; BOMBING MATTERS.

REMYAIRTEL DATED MARCH FOUR, LAST.

INDIANAPOLIS REQUESTED TO IMMEDIATELY FURNISH

RESULTS OF INVESTIGATION REQUESTED IN REFERENCED. AIRTEL.

LOUISVILLE PD WISHES TO HAVE INFORMATION PRIOR TO THE RACING

SEASON OPENING LOUISVILLE MAY ONE, NEXT.

- Louisville

RFH:PWM

(1)

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLAOSIOULD

Approved:

IN 55025 DocId: 326600164 AgenteingCharge

* copies made:

•Or review

VSC-A Comme bee

ENTLE 5/1/72

62-117290-223

Sent LER LOSURE M

Per

JFJ

---

## Page 4

4/25/69

Airtel

TO SAC, Louisville

(157-251)

From SAC, Indianapolis (171-11)

(RUC)

UNSUB; ATTEMPIED BONBING OF

PERSONALLY OWNCO AUTOMOBILE

OF SGT. BRENT HARDIN, LOUISVILLE, KX.

POLICE DEPARTIENT, 12/10/64

BOMBING MATTERS

245852

2211a)55.

Jasmasmice

Re Louisville airtel to Bureau dated 3/4/69.

On 4/24/69 RICHARD MURZYN was interviewed by Bureau Agents and

advised no hard feelings exist between him and Sgt. HARDIN and

added that he knows of no deal which caused him to leave the

Louisville, Ky. area.

MURZYN advised he was last in Louisville,

Ky, six or seven months back checking on rumors that his son

was being nistreated by his ex-wife. HURZYN advised he was in

Louisville immediately before Christmas, December, 1964 with tro

white males, one TONY ANDREWS (Dalton,

Illinois,

(killed in gun-

fight in Dalton,

I11, area) and FOSS HERMAN (now in California).

MURZYN advised

this trip was to deliver Christmas presents to

his son and that he only stayed overnight and knows of no

information of anyone atteupting to dynamite HARDIN's vohicle.

During conversation MURZYN indicated dynamiting was not his

specialty, but if he vas after someone he would do it with a

high powered rifle. MURZYN indicated that he felt he and HARDIN

were still on friendly terms.

NURZYN added he plans to go to

from Hannond, Indiana RICHARD RANKIE, Car salesman from Chicago,

He

added he intends to take several shotguns with him to engage in

a trap shooting contest with some friends from the Louisville

area.

2- Louisville

1- Indianapolis

MTA: Sir

(3)

OT TONIEN

USC-ACING

oxmittee

:: 62-117290223

HH

55025

DocId: 32989739

Page

---

## Page 5

IP 174-44

It was determined that NURZYN has ten shotguns ranging from a

410 gauge to 12 gauge. He stated he is not in possession of

any other firearns sud as a rifle or pistol.

MURZYN stated that he is currently self employed selling suits

and anything else he could get his hands on. HURZYN volunarilj

showed Agents his home at which time both Agents observed several

thousand rounds of shotgun shells which MURZYN advised he reloaded

himself.

During this interview and contact HURZYN continually stated he

has no hard feelings against sgt. HARDIN.

thy evol this information, Indianapolis Division is RuCing

2

→ coptos made

ELE STaLL

WW 55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 5

---

## Page 6

• .

SAC,

INDIN'FOLIS (174-44)

SAC, LOUSVILE (257-252) (esl

4/27/69

UNSUB; Attempted Bombing of

Personally Owned Automobile

of Sgt. BRENT HARDIN,

Louisville, Kentucky Police Departrent

12/10/64;

BOMBING MATTERS

Re Louisville airtel, 3/4/69, and Indianapolis

airtel, 4/25/69.

For the information of Indianapolis, the

information contained in the letterhead memorandum enclosed

with referenced Louisville airtel was disseminated at the

Bureau level, as well as locally to Secret Service,

Louisville.

In order that the information contained in refer-

enced Indianapolis airtel can be proporly disseminated,

it is requested that Indianapolis furnish the information

in letterhead memorandum form.

- Toutsvalle

- Indianapolis

RFH/bbs

14) Mes

Lala jrs

Opsmagmic

i coptos mado

LOITEViET

NSC-Al

EN/NE 5/16/27

42-107791-292111

157-251-30

HW 55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SAC, INDIANAPOLIS (174-44)

8e6, 201V/IS5: (157-285) sif

6/26/69

UNSUB; Attempted Bombing of

Personally Orned Automobile

of Sgt. BRENT HARDIN,

Louisville, Kentucky PD

12/10/64

BOMBING MATTERS

Remylet, 4/29/69, and Indianapolis airtel, 4/25/69.

The information in referenced Indianapolis airtel

has been furnished to the Louisville PD.

In order that this case may be concluded in the

Louisville Division, Indianapolis is requested to furnist

the LHM as requested in referenced Louisville letter.

- Indianapolis

- Louisville

RFH/can

(4)

CAN

248882 M0 COmMED

1I THE

fans tomore

'OTTOViEL

ELE.

159-251-31

- copies mado

Searched.

Sortant

Flied-_

+2-117750-235

HH 55025 DocId:32989739 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division.

Attention: Mir. Robert I. Keuch

EVADERAL GOVERNHENT

Director; FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

May 18, 1977

1 - Mr. Fehl

1 - Mr. Peelman

1 - Mr.

Lawn

2 - Mr.

Mintz

Mr. Daly)

(Attn:

Reference is made to the letter

from U. S, Congressman

Louis Stokes, Chairman, ESCA; dated hay 2,

1977.

We are hereby

responding to the letter from U.s. Congressman stokes which

requests. Information in possession of the ißl pertaining to the

investigation of a dynamite ring in Bowling Green, Kentucky,

from 1960-1969.

Enclosed are two copies of a memorandum which responds

to this HSCA requesti.

You may desire to furnish a copy of this

enclosed memorandum to the HSCA in making your response concerning

this request.

It is noted that further identifying data regarding-

subject, victim, dates of incidents, etc., is necessary in order

that a complete

search of our indices may be conducted.

Enclosures - 2

1 - Assistant Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

(9)

RECIZA!

62-117290-2211

7 MAY 20 1977 .

Assoc. Dir. -=

Dep. AD Adh. =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _:

Crim. Inv. _

Fin. & Pers. -

Ident. _

Intell. -

Laboratory.

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec Mgnt. -

• * MAILED 14

MAY pig' 1977

FBI

Trainiso -

Public is. 0MMAY 2 6 19711

Telepfione Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM D

55025

DooId:32989739

TELETYPE UNITO

Page 8

APPROVED:

Director.

Assoc, Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inve

Adm, Serv.

Crim, Inve

Fin. & Pers.-

Idente

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan. & Insp.-

Rec. Mghte

Spec. Inva

• Tech. Servse

Training

Public Affs. Offa

ALI INFORMATFON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNÜLASSINIED

DATT 12/2163 BRpinacpati

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 9

1 - Mr. Fehl

1-

Mr. Peelman

1

Mr. Lawn

2 - Mr. Mintz

May I8; stY

(Attn :

HOUSE SELECI COMMITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

RE: HAY 2, 1977, REQUEST OF HSCA FOR INFORMATION

IN POSSESSIÓN OF THE FBI RELATING TO THE

INVESTIGATION OF A DYNAMITE RING IN

BOWLING GREEN, KENTUCKY, 1960-1969

this with respond to a lay 2, 197%, letter to the

Attorney Generas from U. s. Congreesman Louls stokes, Chairman,

HSCA, requesting

information in possession of the FBI relating

to the investigation of a dynamite ring in Bowling Green,

Kentucky, 1960-1969.

Based upon the limited Information provided by HSCA,

only one bombing matter has been identifled as having occurred

In Bowling Green, Kentucky, during the pertinent period.

This

material has been processed and is now available for HSCA access

at FBIHQ.

1 - Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

1 ~ Assistant Attorney General

- Assistant

Office of Legislative Affairs

(9.)

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Assoc Dir._

Dep. AD Adn. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv. -

Crim. Inv. -

Fin. & Pers.-

Ident. —

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Spec. Inv. _

Tech. Servs.-

Training —

Public Affs. Off.-

Telephone Rm. -

Director's See'y-

55025

1..!

MAIL ROOM D

DooId:32989739

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 9

145852

ALL INFORNATION CONTAINED.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

62-117290

ENCLOSURE

21/

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 10

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

This responds to a request of HSCA regarding information

in possession of the FBI relating to the investigation of a

dynamite ring in Bowling Green, Kentucky, during the period

1960-1969.

Based upon the limited information provided by HSCA,

only one reference to bombing matter during the pertinent

period has been located in Bureau indices. Additional

identifying data regarding subject, victim, specific incident

dates, etc., is necessary in order

to conduct a more thorough

search.

_ 2-

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page

10

---

## Page 11

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMA

RÍCHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL LI

NE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

JOHN B. ANDERSON, ILL

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

STEWART D. MCKINNEY, CONN.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

HAROLD E- FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT VY. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

ENORAL GOVERONI

Select Committee on Assassinations

M.E. House of Representatives

'3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

MEMORANDUM

Lold

TO:

FROM:

Danny 0. Coulson, Special Agent

Federal Bureau of Investigation

stephen i. fallis, Deputy Chief Counsel Aff

Select Committee on Assassinations

DATE:

RE:

May 13, 1977

March 9, 1977 Letter of Requests Addressed to

Attorney General Griffin B. Bell

With respect to request 3-e of the March 9, 1977

letter, I am forwarding to you additional information relà-

tive to a number of the names listed, which will be of

assistance to the Bureau in identifying those individuals.

MORRIS DAVIS - Interviewed by FBI agents of the

(it. Birmingham office in December of 1976.

PRANK LIBERTO - Owner and operator of a wholesale

1:1

• MAY 20 1977

JOHN\MC FERREN -- A Sommerville, Tennessee business-

man.

Intervièwed by FBI

agents in Memphis Tennes- -

see on April 11, 1968.

OTIS HUMPHREVAMOORE -- Ex-Army serviceman.

Inter-

viewed by FBI agents in Puerto Rico:

LOUISALOMAX -- Journalist for North American Newspaper

Alliance.

62-117290

70 JUN 91977+

HW 55025

DocId: 2

349739

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

HOUSE SELECE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

May 18, 197T

. 1 - Mr. Fehl

1 - Mr. Peelman

1 - Mr. Lawn

- Mr. Hatfield

Mintz (Attn:

Mr. Daly)

Reference is made to the letter from U.S. Congressman

Louis Stokes, Chairman, ESCA, dated April 21, 197%

We are

hereby responding to the letter from U. S Congressman stokes

which requests information in possession of the FBI pertaining

to investigation of an attempted bombing of Louisville, Kentucky,

Police Officer Brent Harden's car In 1964; and for information

concerning unnamed white-hates black-hate, communist, socialist

and new left groups in Loulsville, Kentucky, from 1960-1969.

Enclosed are tro copies of a memorandum which responds

to this HSCA request.

You may desire to furnish a copy of

this memorandum to the ASCA in making your response concerning

this request.

Enclosures - 2.

] - Assistant Attorney General

office of legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

EEH: saS o

9X(10)0

REC45 62-117290-216

ant

23 MAY 19 1977

245852

ATT

INFOPIITTON CONTAINED

HEREIN 1O GIGIRILD

Assoc.

Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep.

AD Invo m

Asst.

Dir.:

Adm.

Serv.—

Crim.

Inv.

Fin.

& Pers. -

Ident.

Intoll.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan.

& Insp.

Roc Mont.

Speco Invo.

Toch. Servs. _

Training -

Public Affs. Off._

Télephone Par

Director's

S5. JUNIANEROR

55025

DocId: 32989

8

MAILED 14

MAY 1 8 19771

FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 12

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 13

- Mr. Fehl

. - Mr. Peelman

1 - Mr. Lawn

- Mr. Hatfield

245%57

ILL INFORMATTON CONTAINED

2

- Mr. Mintz (Attn:

Mr. Daly)

SERGIN IS

-ISIFIED

May 18, 1977

DATE

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

RE:

APRIL 27, 1977, REQUEST OF ISCA FOR INFORMATION

IN POSSESSION

OF THE FBI RELATING TO THE ATTEMPTED

BOMBING OF LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY,_ POLICE OFFICER

BRENT HARDEN'S CAR IN 1904, AND FOR INFORMATION

CONCERNING UNNAMED VHITE-HÄTE, BLACK-HATE,

COMMUNIST, SOCIALISI AND NEW LEFT GROUPS IN

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, FROM 1960-1969.

This will respond to the April 27, 1977, letter to

the Attorney General from U. S. Congressman

Louls Stokes, Chatr

mạn, HSCA.

In response to item one concerning Officer Harden's

car, references concerning the attempted bombing have been

Located, processed and are available for review by the HSCA at

EBL Headquarters.

It should be noted, however, that this bombing did not

fall within the purview of the investigative jurisdiction of this

Bureau.

The FBI Laboratory conducted examinations requested by

the Louisville, Kentucky, Police Department, and the FBI also

conducted some

out-of-state investigation at the request of the

Louisville, Kentucky, Police Department.

in response to item two requesting reports, memoranda;

etces

concerning unnamed white hate, black-hate, communist,

socialist and new left groups in Louisville, Kentucky, from 1960-

1969, the ISCA has been advised previously that no topical indices

are maintained in the Bureau's Central Records Systém and general

Information such as is requested 1s not retrievable.

Therefore,

Assoca. Dir..

Information concerning this request cannot be furnished basea on

Dep ADAthe limited Information provided by the ESCA.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dis ] - Assistant Attorney Genera]

Adm. Serv. c

Crim. Inv. -..

Criminal Division

APPROVEDI

Fin. & Pers. -

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keich

Birector

Ident. —

Assoc, Dire

Lobstory I - Assistant Attorney General

Dep. AD. Adm.

Bep. AD Inve

Adm. Serve

Crim. Inve

Fin, &" Pers.

idente

Intell._

Laboratory-

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp.

Office of Legislative Affairs

Legal Coun

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mght.

Spec, Inve

Tesh. Servs.

Training—

Public Affs. Offe

Rec. Mgni.

Spec. Inv. Elit

lisas

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off._

Telephone Rm. =

ENCLOSURE 62-117290-216

Director's Sec'y -

55025

MAIL ROOM O

DocId:32989739

TELETYPE UNIT O

Page 13

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 14

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NOTE: This responds to a request of HSCA for information in

possession of the FBI regarding the attempted bombing of

Louisville, Kentucky, Police Officer Brent Harden's car in 1964.

Also requested is information concerning unnamed white-hate, black-

hate, communist, socialist and new left groups in Louisville,

Kentucky, from 1960-1969. Three references concerning the

attempted bombing of Officer Harden's car have been processed and

are available for review by the AscA.

Communications in possession

of Louisville, not previously furnished Bureau, have been received

and are available for review.

Based on limited information

provided by the HSCA concerning the unnamed groups, no information

is being made available to HSCA concerning these groups. .

Negative response to item two has been discussed with

Mr. Robert L. Keuch, Special Counsel to the Attorney General.

= 2 -

1Н 55025 DocId: 32989739

Page

14

---

## Page 15

TO

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

ESA FPME lA), CERU 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mx. Feh27/d

FROM

:J. S. Peelmand

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

DATE: 4/29/77

- Mr.

Adams

- Mr.

Fehl

1

- Mr. Peelman

Mr.

Lawn

- Mr.

Decker

1

- Mr.

Ryan

1 - Mr.

Daly

PURPOSE: To request that the 12 volumes of the

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv. =

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv._

Ext. Affairs -

Fin. & Pors. —

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

Inspoction _

Intell. _

Laboratory -

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval.-

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec. Inv..

Training

Telephono Rm. _

= Director Soc'y -

DATESAIARS BYS

HEREIN IS UNGLASBIFTED

salmaes

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Classification Officer, for classification review before

a decision is reached on making these papers available

to the HSCA.

SYNOPSIS: HSCA has requested that the Department make"

available the OPR Task Force work papers used in preparing

the report of the Department's review of the FBI security and

assassination investigations of Martin Luther King. Included

in these work papers are 12 volumes containing information

obtained from FBI criminal and security files which need be

reviewed for classification prior to any decision being made in

making this material available to HSCA as they have requested.

RECOMMENDATION: That Projects Unit, Records Management

Division, review these OPR work papers for classification.

REVIEW COMPLETED + OPR

AOVISEO 6/2/77. OPR

REQUEST FBI TEMPORARILY

HOLD I2 VOLUMES,

SEE OPR

APPROVED:

M LET tO DIRECTOR 6/2107

CAP. MARTIN LUTHER

пота ці о кр. оно - -

Adm. Serv...

Ext. Affairs..

Fin. & 'Pers..

Plan. & Insp...

ST-108

Spec. Inv...

Training....

DETAILS: Mr. Robert L. Keuch.

Special Counsel

Attorney General, advised on 4/27/77;

that HSCA has requested

that the Department make accessible to the Committee ait of

the OPR work papers used in preparing the Report Of The

MAY IZ. 1977

Enclosure

JCL:gjW:sas

18)

CONTINUED - OVER

ENCLOSURE

9-FL

Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HH 55036-501

YOGA 929847597 Paye 15

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 16

Peelman to Mr. Fehl Memorandum

Re :

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Department Of Justice Task Force To Review The FBI -

Martin Luther King, Jr., Security And Assassination Inves-

tigations.

Included in these work papers are 12 volumes of

material relating to Appendix C of the OPR report. Appendix

C contains voluminous notes

taken by OPR from FBI criminal

and security files.

Mr. Keuch requested that the FBI review this

material for classification purposes.

(receipt attached).

Review of this material for classification has

been coorainated with the Document Classification Officer,

Records Management Division,

who had coordinated the original

classification review of the OPR report prior to release.

-2-

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page

16

---

## Page 17

f.4wewlCo0.do.seC0GT

-0/40-118/4

62-117290-214

•102033

HH 55025 DocId:32989739

Page 17

---

## Page 18

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

OFFICE OF PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITY

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

April 28, 1977

RECEIPT

Received from Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Counsel, Office

of Professional Responsibility, Volume Numbers I through

XI and No. XXI of Appendix C, Martin Luther King Task

Force. Report, for the FBI's review to determine

appropriate classification.

mian gel Colas, F01

- ны 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page

18

---

## Page 19

FD-36 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

[ Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

O CLEAR

Date -

4/1/77

TO :

EROM:

MURKIN

Director, FBI (44-38861)

SAC, Memphis . (44-1987)

Re telephone call from Supervisor HAL HELTERHOFF,

FBIHQ, to Memphis,

3/30/77.

On 3/31/77, Acting Chief JOHN HOLT, Memphis Police

Department, advised SA BURL F. JOHNSON that any information

furnished to the FBI by the Memphis Police Department

in conjunction with captioned case may be released to the:House

Select Committee on Assassinations. without the expressed consent*

of the Memphis Police Department.

62-117290-20984

- Bureau

- Memphis

RHB: 1n

(3)

REC-126,

ET. APR A 1977

ALL INFCRKATCON CONTAINED

FLEIN IN UNGLRGGIED

XER

Approved: =

no A 15 37/979

Transmitted

Per

(Number)

(Time)

Page 19

---

## Page 20

March 30, 1977

, CRIMINAL.

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

MURKIN

to sent

This refers to the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI.,

in Memphis, Tennessee, in April, 1968.

Congressman M. G. Snyder, Kentucky, recently revealed he had

received letter from an unnamed police officer who made allega-

tion he had received offer from FBI Agents and police officers

to kill King. The unnamed police officer reportedly made tapes

of offer, one of which was lost or stolen, and the other turned

over to the House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) •

Subsequent newspaper accounts identified unnamed officer as

Clifton E. Baird.

On 3/25/77, the Attorney General authorized

the FBI to interview Baird in the presence of an Assistant U.S.

Attorney.

Attached Louisville teletype advises attempt to interview

Baird, supra, evening 3/29/77, was unsuccessful. Bureau Agents

contacted Baird at his residence but Baird refused interview

stating "I have no statement to make. Just leave." Baird

appeared visibly upset. As Agents were leaving, Baird made

comment "I have received numerous threats from

FBI over last

ten years," and "I have nothing to say." Baird terminated .con-

tact by stating "I'll say it all to the House Committee." This

was in obvious reference to the HSCA. Agents characterized

Baird as hostile, contemptuous, and apparently distraught.

Department being advised.

1 - Mr. Held

1 - Mr. Adams

1 - Mr. Mintz

1 - External Affairs

HNH: JBL:erg

ALI. INCO MARION CONTATHED

HENSIN IS UNCLACSTIED

HH 55025

APPROVED!

DocId: 32989739

Director.

Assoc. Dir:

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD In

34 рмм

Page 20

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inicil

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp....--

Rec. Mgt...

S. & T. Serv.......

Spec. INV..----ed

Training.

---

## Page 21

138-4415 (R95, 1U-16-73)

*Transmitatacied by Fossigile - A

CARTAKI

Director

FBI ( 114-38861 Hoe 31' 10 16 AH B77p: 3/32/77

Ero AC, touisvilio ( 44-947) FEDERAL UREAN

Tronamitted.

Subiech

OF INVESTIGATION

HURKIN

CONHUNICATIONS SECTION Initiole -

Housei SeLect CommIttee

1:7 Fingerprint Phota

la) Fingerprint Record

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Priority.

Dep. AD Invit

Asst. Dir.

Adm. Serra

Ext, Affairs

Fin. & Pers

Gen. Inv.

Ident. .

Intell.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp

Rec. Mgt

S. & T. Serv

Spec. Int. .

Training

Telephone Rm.

-

Director's Sec'y-

-Newspoper elipping lPists-rogh

L'Artista Concoption

Sanciat hadlogiction It in noted, Lanisville indices containl only one

44-474, whICh t110,

ale no oUn relerende to Baira and Louigrille has no informa

tion concerning throata br the orT ta Balrd.

Approvada -

Replan

245887

•ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HETCIN IS UNCLASSIVIED

DATE12/8S

1A

62-117290-209X3

ST-106

HEC60 +-389S1-67E3

7 APR # 1977

ENGLOSURE;

"TREAT AS ORIGINAL"

84 APRO 1971

989731

Page 21

---

## Page 22

FD .B02 (REW. 11-27-303

#1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ALL

INFCÉMATION CONTAINED

HE

ROIN IS UNCLASDWILD

3/50/77

On Harch 29,11977, at approximately 7:28 Pig.

ut the residence of CLArION E. BAI, 7813 Edsol Lone,

Louisvillo, Kentucky, for the specitic purpose of contacting

BAll In an efiort to arrange a suitable interview oi Balka

with Special Agent's of the lederal Bureau of Investigation

(FBI) in the presence of Assistant United States Attorney

ak, in connection with an allégation!

of an offer reportedly madgi to Balto by unaued FBI Agents

was mad or the casted States Atoned toile ta lanca oat.

1977, as had been requested of his wife, NARY BAsEd, during

contact on Narch 26, 1977.

Upon arrival

jat the BAlip tesiaonce, MARX BALAd

answered the doorbell,' at rhich timo Spectal Agents immediatoly -

identified themsalves and displayed' their credentials.

BAIRD acknowledeed that she recognired both Spootal Agenta

requested that Spocial Agonts speak with her outsido hor

residence.

Intervlewing Agents requested entrance into her

ICsidoRed for privacy reasone inashuch as neighbors were

sitting on front porches. In close proximity to BAIl Lesidence

and would be able to: overhear all cotiversation, Entrance into

residence was granted by MAry Baind folowing the abore requast.

Upon entering the residonce, MARY BAIRD was asked if she had boon.

in contact with hor husband,

CLIPION E. BAIR, to which she

replied that her hushand was in lack present at the residence.

CLETON I. BAIRD entered the living room of the

BÁIT@ residence, at Which tito Special Agents attempted to

Identify themselves with credentials in the presonce of

BAIn's wito and explatn the purpose of the contact. CLINTON

I- BAIl exclaimed that he know who the special Agents were,

refused to shako hande or look at the credentials.

stated, "I know who you

are."

BAIRU

not giving the interviewing

Agents opportunity to explain the senson for instalt contact,

BAIRE was immediately advised. that the Attorney Gonoral of the

United States had specifically requestod he be interviered

3/89/77

SA CHRIS R. HOISILR

SA EDMUND. V. ARMENTO/BYA/SCS

1i and a contend dro opt do ba dictribulad auride rous agener.

—H* 55026 DocId:32989739_ Page 22

•Louitsville, Kentucky

145 44-847

_Fila #

3/30/77

Frote dirtalad.

62-117290-20943

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 23

IS•

44-947

concerning allegations recently reveated by. Balm to unzted

states Reprosentative M. G. (GENE) SNYDER. BAIRD blurted,

"I tave no statement to make.

Just, leave.

not alloring

interviewing igente to complete statement. i

• BAIrD became visibly upset and his eyes. appeared

Classy and noiat, speaking: abruptly and not allowing Intervieriog

Agents to express themselves sally.

Phile leaving residenco

atithe specifle direction. oi Balm,, Special Agents again

advised. BAIRD: that the solo purpase of the contact sas to.

arrange an Intervier of BAIM with Special Agents of the FBI

In the presence of a representative of the United Stster

Attorney.

BAIRD: Immodiately Inquired as to the identity. of

the United. States Attorney and when informed: thnt the local

United States Attornoy Was GORGE J. LONG, JR:, BAIRD exolaimed;

"Don't bring that man out here, I have no use for hin."

BAIBD: further exclaimed,

"I. have received nunerous threatr

fron the FBI over the last tet years," and *I have nothing

to say""

BAIl, terminsted the contact by stating, "I'll

say it all to the House Committee.*

Immediately prior to

ternhation of contact, BAlly ure advised that if he possessed

any aviaonce. of aleconduct on the part of any fbl agedthe

should: Immediately bring sans to the attention of the Attorney

General of the Unitod States.

Contact was terninated: at 7:32 PH

and Spocial Agonte immediately departed: the area of the

residence.

HH 55025 DocId: 32989739

Page 23

---

## Page 24

LOT 0890418

1Q0 HI

MDE L5

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

CONUNICATIONS SECTION

03004102 MAR 77

FM

LQUISVILLE (44-497)

TO

DIRECTOR (44-38861) IMMEDIATE

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. A~pl3m.

Dep. AD Inven

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. SorT.

Ext. Affairs

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.--

Intell.

Legal Crun.

Plan.

& Insp

Rec.

Mgt.

S. & I. Serv.

Spec. Inv. -

Training

"Telephone

Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

BT

- ap

ERT-O

Dadar di

DA1212112138 80

MURKIN

AT 7:28

POM. ON MARCH 29, 1977, SECOND

ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

CLIFION ES BAIRD, 7813 EDSEL LANE, LOULSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WAS

MADE BY BUREAU AGENTS IN EFFORT TO ARRANGE INTERVIEW IN PRESENCE

OF ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (AUSA) ALEXANDER T. TAFT,

JR., IN CONNECTION WITH ALLEGATION OF OFFER

MADE BAIRD BY

UNNAMED FBI AGENTS DURING 1966 TO ASSASSINATE MARTIN

C2=1.7290-20112

KING,

JR.

N-27

ST-106 REC60YY -3856T400T

PREVIOUS ATTEMPT TO INTERVIEW BAIRD MADE MARCH 26, 1977,

AT WHICH TIME ARRANGEMENTS MADE WITH MARLBAIRD, WIFE OF CLIETON

ELBAIRD, FOR LATTER TO NOTIFY AUSA TAFI OR BUREAU AGENTS UPON APR # 1977

RETURN IO LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, FROM UNDISCLOSED LOCATION WITHIN

CONMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY ON MARCH 29, 1977. BAIRD DID NOT "

1- CIVILRIGHTS DIVISION

1- CRIMINAL DIVISION

1- OFFICE OF PROFESSIUNAL.RESPONSABILITY

1- CONGRESSIONAL INqUIRY UNIT

0-70(6)3130177

977T NH

HL 205.19,

1Ap

---

## Page 25

PAGE TWO

LS 44-497 EFTO

INITIATE CONTACT AS REQUESTED, HENCE SECOND ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

BAIRD MADE BY BUREAU AGENTS EVENING OF MARCH 29, 1977, TO

ARRANGE INTERVIEW.

UPON ARRIVAL AT RESIDENCE, MARY BAIRD ANSWERED DOORBELL.

AT WHICH TIME BUREAU AGENTS IMMEDIATELY IDENTIFIED THEMSELVES.

MARY BAIRD ACKNOWLEDGED THAT SHE RECOGNIZED BUREAU AGENTS FROM

PREVIOUS CONTACT ON MARCH 26, 1977, HOWEVER, REQUESTED THAI

BUREAU AGENTS SPEAK WITH HER OUTSIDE RESIDENCE. BUREAU AGENIS

REQUESTED ENTRANCE FOR PRIVACY REASONS AND WERE GRANTED SAME.

UPON ENTERING RESIDENCE, MARY BAIRD WAS ASKED IF SHE HAS BEEN

IN CONTACT WITH HUSBAND, TO WHICH SHE REPLIED THAT HUSBAND

WAS PRESENT AT RESIDENCE.

CLIFTON E. BAIRD ENTERED LIVING ROOM AT WHICH TIME BUREAU

AGENIS ATTEMPTED TO IDENTIFY THEMSELVES WITH CREDENTIALS, IN

PRESENCE OF WIFE MARY BAIRD, AND EXPLAIN PURPOSE OF CONTACT.

CLIFTON E. BAIRD EXCLAIMED THAT HE KNEW WHO BUREAU AGENTS WERE

AND REFUSED TO LOOK AT CREDENTIALS. BAIRD WAS ADVISED BY BUREAU

AGENT THAT ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES HAD SPECIFICALLY

REQUESTED BAIRD BE INTERVIEWED CONCERNING ALLEGATIONS RECENTLY

REVEALED BY BAIRD TO U.S. REPRESENTATIVE M. G. (GENE) SNYDER,

14.55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 25

---

## Page 26

PAGE THREE LS 44-497 EFT O

4TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT, KENTUCKY. BAIRD STATED, "I HAVE NO

STATEMENT TO MAKE. JUST LEAVE."

BAIRD BECAME VISIBLY UPSET AND EYES APPEARED GLASSY AND

MOIST, SPEAKING ABRUPTLY AND NOT ALLOWING BUREAU AGENTS TO

EXPRESS THEMSELVES. WHILE LEAVING RESIDENCE AT SPECIFIC DIRECTION

OF BAIRD, BUREAU AGENTS AGAIN ADVISED BAIRD THAT SOLE PURPOSE OF

CONTACT WAS TO ARRANGE INTERVIEW OF BAIRD WITH BUREAU AGENTS IN

PRESENCE OF UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (USA) REPRESENTATIVE: BAIRD

INQUIRED AS IO IDENTITY OF USA AND WHEN INFORMED LOCAL USA WAS

GEROGE

ALONG, JR., BAIRD EXCLAIMED, "DON'T BRING THAI MAN OUT

HERE, I HAVE NO USE-FÖR HIM." BAIRD FURTHER EXCLAIMED, "I HAVE

RECEIVED NUMEROUS THREATS FROM FBI OVER LAST TEN YEARS. "/ AND

"I HAVE NOTHING TO SAY". BAIRD TERMINATED CONTACI BY STATING,

"I'LL SAY IT ALL. TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE." IN OBVIOUS REFERENCE

TO THE

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS, (HSCA). IMMEDIATELY

PRIOR TO TERMINATION OF INTERVIEW, BAIRD WAS ADVISED THAI IF HE

POSSESSED ANY EVIDENCE OF MISCONDUCT ON THE PART OF ANY FBI

AGENT, HE SHOULD IMMEDIATELY BRING SAME TO THE ATTENTION OF THE

ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES. CONTACT WAS TERMINATED

AT 7:32 P.M.

NW 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 26

---

## Page 27

PAGE FOUR

LS 44-497 EFT 0

AUSA ALEXANDER T. TAFT, JR., ADVISED ON

. ABOVE ON MARCH 29,

1977, AND COPY OF INSTANT COMMUNICATION BEING DISSEMINATED

LOCALLY TO USA, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY •

ADMINISTRATIVE:

RE LOUISVILLE TELETYPE TO THE BUREAU DATED MARCH 26, 1977.

BUREAU AGENTS ATTEMPTING TO ARRANGE INTERVIEW OF BAIRD ON

MARCH 29, 1977, IDENTIFIED AS SUPERVISOR EDMUND V. ARMENTO AND

SA CHRIS R. HOEHLE, WHO HANDLED THEMSELVES IN BUSINESSLIKE, •

CORD IAL MANNER, EXHIBITING GREAT RESTRAINT WHILE DEALING WITH

OBVIOUSLY HOSTILE, CONTEMPTUOUS, AND APPARENTLY DISTRAUGHT

INDIVIDUAL.

INASMUCH AS COMPLETE RESULTS OF INTERVIEW ARE SET FORTH

HEREIN, LHM NOT BEING SUBMITTED UACB.

BT

#*

0899415 HQ 1

NH 55025 DocId:32989739 Page 27

---

## Page 28

0270 (Rev. 3-28-72)

OFTIÓNAL FORM NO, 10

SA GEN

REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

: Assistant Attorney General

CRIMINAL DIVISION

: Director, FBI

SUBJECT: ABOASSIUATIGA CE LANTER I. KING, ARE

CIVIL RIGITS

COlY

DATE: 3/50/77

ANTH: IN. ROBLET I. KNUCE

245%52

ATL INFORNATION CONTAINED

PEREIN IS UNCLASSINIED

DATE 12/12183 B*acal

Reference is made to

_ memorandum dated

(your file .

There is enclosed one copy of then our ple talatype to Director

9/50/717

A. • This covers the preliminary investigation and no further action concerning

a full investigation will be taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

B. [ The investigation is continuing and you will be furnished copies of

reports as they are received.

C. • The investigation requested by you has now been completed. Unless

advised to the contrary no further inquiries will be made by this Bureau.

D. Pursuant to instructions issued by the Department, no investigation will

be conducted in this matter unless specifically directed by the Department.

E. • Please advise whether you desire any further investigation.

F. • This is submitted for your information and you will be advised of further

developments.

G. LI, This is submitted for your information and no further investigation will

be conducted unless specifically requested by the Department.

H. • This covers the receipt of a complaint and no further action will be

taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

Enc. (1)

I - Civil Idento Diviaion (orel, 1)

I - O823c0 of profocaional Responsibility, U.S.D.d, (orcl. 1)

NOra: Enclosed orally furniabed to ofsico o1 ki. KEUCit, 2/20/7%

IN 55025 DocId:32989739 Page 28,

---

## Page 29

Man Lo 3 41Fy9

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BURCHA

OF INVESTIGATIOR

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

LSC0S1 9552039

PP Hg

DE LS

P 202030Z MAR 77

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Alim.

Dep. AD Inv.--

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. —

Ext. Affairs

Fin. 8m

Gent

017

Ident.

Intell.

Legal Coun

Plan. & tap,

S. & T. Serv.

Spec. Inv-

Training -

Telephone Rn -

Director's Sed'y-

FI: LOUISVILLE

(44-947) (P)

TO DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861) PRIORITY

BT

ETIO

MURKIN

2N5153

emper CONTATIED

Lilw

Vivisaan

Вератаські.

209K

RE BUREAU TELETYPE TO LOUISVILLE, MARCH 25; 1977.

ON MARCH 26, 1977, ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO INTERVIEW CLIFTON E.

BAIRD, 7813 EDSEL LANE, LOUISVILLE, KY., CONCERNING ALL DETAILS

OF RECENT REPORTED ALLEGATION THAT BAIRD HAD RECEIVED OFFER FRONT

FBI AGENTS AND POLICE OFFICERS TO KILL MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

INQUIRY AT BAIRD RESIDENCE BY SUAGENTS, ACCOMPANIED BY

AL'SA ALEMANDER I. IAFI, JR., ON MARCH 25, 1977, REVEALED CLIFTON!

E. BAIRE CURRENTLY OUE OF TON AI UNDISCLOSED LOGATTEEKOAXI

WHERE BAIRD IS ON SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT

REC-7

PINKERTON, INC. DETECTIVE AGENCY, 510 WEST'

BROADWAY, LOUISVILLE L-

KENTUCKY.

MAR 31 1977

MARY BAIRD, WIFE OF CLIFTON E. BAIRD, DECLINED TO FURNISH

44-38861

set P. Do

1977

---

## Page 30

PAGE TWO LS 44-947

INFORMATION CONCERNING BAIRD'S SPECIFIC LOCATION SINCE BAIRD

IS WORKING SPECIAL ASSIGNMENT INVOLVING TWELVE HOUR SHIFT AND

INTERVIEW OF BAIRD WHILE SO EMPLOYED COULD JEOPARDIZE JOB AND

CAUSE EMBARRASSMENT INASMUCH AS CO-WORKER ON CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

HAS NO KNOWLEDGE OF BAIRD'S RECENT ALLEGATION.

MARY BAIRD, WHO APPEARED COOPERATIVE AND TRUSTWORIHY,

INDICATED HUSBAND WOULD NOT RETURN TO LOUISVILLE, KY., UNTIL

MORNING OF MARCH 29, 1977, AT WHICH TIME BAIRD WILL CONTACT FBI,

LOUISVILLE OFFICE OR USA'S OFFICE, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.

MARY BAIRD ADVISED SHE HAS NO PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF REPORTED

OFFER, WHICH APPARENTLY OCCURRED SOMETIME DURING 1966, AND

HUSBAND HAS NOT REVEALED PERTINENT FACTS OF ALLEGATION TO HER.

IDENTITIES OF FBI AGENTS AND LOUISVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT OFFICERS

REPORTEDLY NAMED IN HUSBAND'S LETTER TO REPRESENTATIVE M. G.

"GENE" SNYDER, UNKNOWN IO MARY BAIRD.

ACCORDING TO MARY BAIRD, HUSBAND WAS INTERVIEWED BY HOUSE

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA) IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,

SEVERAL WEEKS AGO AT WHICH TIME TAPE RECORDING OF ALLEGED

OFFER TO KILL MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. AND ALL PERTINENI DATA

PROVIDED COMMITTEE MEMBERS. MARY BAIRD DID NOT BELIEVE COPY

HH 55025 DocId:32989739 Page 30

---

## Page 31

PAGE THREE LS 44-947

OF TAPE RECORDING EXISTED AND HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF ANY COPY OF

LETTER TO SNYDER WHICH MAY HAVE BEEN RETAINED BY BAIRD.

MARY BAIRD WAS OF OPINION THAT SNYDER PUBLICIZED RECEIPT OF

ALLEGATION IN ORDER TO ENSURE CONTINUED FUNDING OF HSCA

SCHEDULED TO EXPIRE MARCH 31, 1977. MARY BAIRD HAD NO KNOWLEDGE

OF HOW HER HUSBAND'S IDENTITY WAS "LEAKED" TO NEWS MEDIA.

MARY BAIRD NOTED THAT SHE HAS BEEN HARASSED BY NEWS MEDIA,

BOTH AT HOME AND AT HER EMPLOYMENI, STOCKYARDS BANK, LOUISVILLE,

KY., IN APPARENT EFFORIS TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL DATA REGARDING

ALLEGATION AND INTERVIEW HUSBAND. TO DATE, NO KNOWN INTERVIEW

OF BAIRD HAS BEEN CONDUCTED BY NEWS MEDIA.

MARY BAIRD ASSURED BUAGENTS AND AUSA THAT SHE WOULD HAVE

HUSBAND, CLIFTON E. BAIRD, CONTACT FBI OR USA INMEDIATELY

UPON HIS RETURN TO LOUISVILLE, KY. NECESSITY FOR IMMEDIATE

INTERVIEW REITERATED TO MARY BAIRD AND SUITABLE ARRANGEMENTS

FOR SAME ON OR ABOUT MARCH 29, 1977 MADE.

ABOVE INFORMATION PERSONALLY FURNISHED BY BUAGENTS TO USA

GEORGE J. LONG, JR., WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY, LOUISVILLE,

ON MARCH 26, 1977.

HH 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 31

---

## Page 32

PAGE FOUR LS 44-947

ADMINISTRATIVE:

LOUISVILLE WILL FOLLOW MATTER CLOSELY AND SUBMIT SUMMARY

TELETY PE SUBSEQUENT TO INTERVIEW, FOLLOWED BY LHM.

BI

1 08520407 HQ 1 CLR

55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 32

---

## Page 33

TELETYPE

PRIORITY

CLEAR

3/25/77

FM DIRECTOR (44-38861)

TO LOUISVILLE

1 - Mr. Adams

1 - Mr. Moore

• - Mr. Ingram

- Mx. Mintz

- Mr. Peelman

- MI: Lawn

1 - External Affairs

CLEAR

MURKIN

He 200 TAE ASA PATTO SEA 22, 157, 20 Was

MARCH 25, 1977.

ON MARCH 25, 1977, ROBERT I. KEUCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT

ATTORNEY GENERAL,, CRIMINAL DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE, WHO HAS BEEN APPOINTED SPECIAI, COUNSEL FOR THE

DEPARIMENT IN MATTERS CONCERNING THE HOUSE SELECH COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS, ADVISED THE ATTORNEY GEÑERAL HAS

AUTHORIZED THE INTERVIEW OF CLIFTON E. BAIRD BY THE FBI,

IN THE PRESENCE OF AN ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY (AUSA

LOUISVILLE, CONCENING ALL DETATES DE IS SACE PORE RORY

ALIIGATION THAT HE HAD RECEIVED AN OFFER FROM FBI AGENTS AND

POLICE OFFICERS TO KILL MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. FOR FIVE

HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.

REC-62..

SiP-101

14-3886-1

HNH: n1c (9)

ase

SEE NOTE PAGE ?.,

23 MAR 30. 1977

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv._

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv..

Ident. -

Inspection

Intell.-

Laboratory

245857

ETT

INCESTION CONCATED:

Legal Coun. _

Plan. & Eval..

Rec. Mgnt.-

[A02\2112185

Spoc. Inv.-

Training

Про tродRR 8

AIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT LY

JUL 2 5 1978 N+

177 55025

DecId: 32989739

Page 33

GPO!

: 1976 0-207-526

FEDERAL BUREAL'OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 5 1927

185JAmJ

TELETYPE

---

## Page 34

PAGE TWO

LOUISVILLE ARRANGE TO HAVE AN AUSA PRESENT AND PROMTLY

INTERVIEW BAIRD FOR ALL DETAILS. ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN COPIES

OF ANY EVIDENCE HE HAS TO SUPPORT HIS ALLECATION INCLUDING

COPIES OF THE ALLEGED TAPES. IF THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED

STATES ATTORNEY HAS ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THIS MATTER

HAVE IT CONTACT MR. KEUCH OF THE DEPARTMENT DIRECT.

SUTEL RESULTS FOLLOWED BY LHM.

NOTE: Congressman M. G. Snyder Kentucky, recently revealed

he had received letter

from an unnamed police officer who made

allegation he had received offer from FBI Agents and police

officers to kill King.

The unnamed police officer reportedly

made tapes of offer, one of which was stolen, and the other

turned over to the House Select Committee on

Assassinations.

Subsequent newspaper accounts identified unnamed officer as

Clifton E. Baird.

Legal Counsel Division requested authority from

Department to interview Baird.

On 3/25/77, at about 4:30 p.m. Mr. Keuch of the

Department, mentioned above, telephonically advised SA Paul

Daly of the Legal Counsel Division

that the Attorney General

authorized the FBI to interview Baird in the presence of an

AUSA.

SAC, Louisville telephonically advised

3/25/77.

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page 34

---

## Page 35

TELETYPE

IMMEDIATE

CLEAR

4/26/77

FM DIRECTOR (62-177290)

Out

TO: ATLANTA (IMMEDIATE)

BIRMINGHAM (IMMEDIATE)

LITTLE ROCK (IMMEDIATE)

LOUISVILLE (IMMEDIATE)

NEW YORK (IMMEDIATE)

ST. LOUIS (IMMEDIATE)

TAMPA (IMMEDIATE)

BT

PERSONAL ATTENTION

1

- Mr. Held

= Mr. Adams

HUHH

- Mr. Fehl

- Mr. Peelman

- Mr. Lawn

lift.

- Mr. Mintz

- Mr. Daly

EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

ALL T

2458820

APR 25 19777

LEAR

(30,

_скаратоери TELETYPE

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

REFERENCE FBIHQ TELETYPE TÒ ALL SACS AND LEGATS DATED

NOVENBER 24, 1976. 49

RECENTLY THE HSCA, RELATIVE TO THEIR INVESTIGATION INTO

THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, REQUESTED THAT FBIHQ

FURNISH THE PRESENT WHEREABOUTS OF THREE FBI PERSONNEL WHO WERE

ASSIGNED TO THE LOUISVILLE DIVISION IN 1965. THESE INDIVIDUALS

Assoc. Dir.-

ARE BERNARD C. BROWN, FORMER SAC RETIRED; SA WILLIAM, ROBERT

Dop. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD Inv. _ JCL: sas

Asst. Dir.:

(22) DOS

Adm. Serv.==:=

REC-662 - 117 La RAT

Ext. Affairs _=

Fin. & Pers. =

Gon. Inv.-

Ident. -

APPROVED:

Inspaction -

Intoll. —

Laboratory -=

Director...

Assoc. Dir.

Legal Coun.-

Plan, & Eval. —

Spec. Inv.,

Training f

TolphoRens MAY 171977

TELETYPE UNIT US

sites

Adm. Serv..

Ext. Affairs:..

Fin. & Pers...

Gen. Inv...

Ident...

• Intell..

62-117290

Legal Courtl

Plan: & Insp.

Rec. Mgt

8, & T. Seiv

Spec. Inv.

Training...

Director Sec'y-

MAIL ROOM

55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 35

reur

GPO: 1976 0 - 207-526

---

## Page 36

PAGE TWO

CLEAR

DUNCAN, CURRENTLY ASSIGNED IN THE ST. LOUIS DIVISION;

ROBERT EDWARD PETERS, FORMER SA RETIRED.

THE COMMITTEE HAS INDICATED THAT THIS REQUEST IS RELATED

TO THEIR RECENT RECEIPT OF INFORMATION FROM A FORMER LOUISVILLE

POLICE OFFICER WHO ALLEGED THAT HE HAD RECEIVED AN OFFER FROM

UNNAMED FBI AND POLICE PERSONNEL TO KILL MARTIN LUTHER KING.

FBIHQ HAS REQUESTED THAT THE DEPARTMENT OBTAIN FROM HSCA ALL

INFORMIATION PERTAINING TO THIS ALLEGATION, BUT TO DATE THE

COMMITTEE HAS NOT ACCEDED TO THIS REQUEST.

ADDITIONALLY, HSCA HAS REQUESTED THE IDENTITIES OF ALL

SACS WHO SERVED IN THE BIRMINGHAM DIVISION BEIWELEN DECEMBER,

1962, AND DECEMBER, 1969. THESE INDIVIDUALS ARE:. RAYMOND I.

FAISST, FORMER SAC RETIRED; EVERETT J. INGRAM, FORMER SAC =

DECEASED; JAPES I. MCGOVERN, FORMER SAC RETIRED: GEORGE W. HAL

FORMER SAC RETIRED; JOSEPH H. GAMBLE, FORMER SAC RETIRED; RALPH J.

MILES, FORNER SAC RETIRED. EACH OF THESE SURVIVING FORNER

EMPLOYEES IS TO BE CONTACTED IMMEDIATELY BY SAC OR ASAC WHERE

FEASIBLE, AND ALERTED THAT HE MAY BE APPROACHED BY HSCA

DosTd-22989739 Page 36

---

## Page 37

PAGE THREE

CLEAR

REPRESENTATIVE FOR INTERVIEW. EACH SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT IN

THE EVENT HE IS CONTACTED HE MAY DESIRE TO CONTACT THE BUREAU'S

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL FOR FULL INFORMATION

PERTAINING TO HIS OBLIGATIONS AS TO CONFIDENTIALITY OF

INFORMATION ACQUIRED AS AN FBI EMPLOYEE.

SA DUNCAN, SI. LOUIS DIVISION, SHOULD BE INSTRUCTED TO

IMMEDIATELY ADVISE SAC, ST. LOUIS, AND FBIHQ, ATTENTION

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, SPECIAL INVESTIGAIIVE DIVISION, IN

THE EVENT HE IS CONTACTED BY THE COMMITTEE.

THE INFORMATION REQUESTED BY HSCA IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE

THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT.

IN THE EVENT A FORMER EMPLOYEE NO LONGER RESIDES IN YOUR

TERRITORY, SEI OUT LEADS TO OTHER OFFICES WITH À COPY TO FBIHQ.

• ATLANTA: JAMES I. MCGOVERN, 2689 CANNA RIDGE CIRCLE,

ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

BIRMINGHAM: RALPH J. MILES, 1126 MOUNTAIN OAKS DRIVE,

BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA.

IN 55025 DocId: 32989739

Page 37

---

## Page 38

• PAGE FOUR

CLEAR

LITTLE ROCK: RAYMOND L. FAISST, 113 CAMBRIDGE PLACE,

LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS.

LOUISVILLE: BERNARD C. BROWN, 6904 WYTHE HILI CIRCLE,

PROSPECT, KENTUCKY; ROBERT EDWARD PETERS, 412 TRINITY HILLS LANE,

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY.

NEW YORK: JOSEPH H. GAMBLE, 24 GREYSTONE ROAD, ROCKVILLE

CENTER, NEW YORK.

ST. LOUIS: SA WILLIAM ROBERT DUNCAN.

TAMPA: GEORGE W. HALL, 5598 TRELLIS LANE, FORT MYERS,

FLORIDA.

BI

#

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Assistant Attorney General si

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

EDERAL GOVERNHENZ

May 2, 1977

1 - Mr. Fehl

1 - Mr. Peelman

I - Mr. Lawn

2 - Mr. Mintz

Mr. Daly)

(Attn:

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTZE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENCATIVES (ESCA)

Reforence is made to the lefter from the office of

Legislative Aftairs dated April 11; 1917, which enclosed a letter

Irom U.S. Congressman Louis stokes, Chairman, isch, dated

April 5, 1977.

We are hereby responding to the portion of the

letter from U. S. Congressnan Stokes which requests information

in possession of the FBI pertaining to Arthur J. Hanes, SI., Of

Birmingham, Alabama.

Enclosed are two copies of a nemorandun which responds

to this ESCA request.

You may desire to furnish a copy of this

enclosed memorandum to the ISCA in making your response concerning

this request.

Inclosures - 2

1 - Assistant Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs (Enclosure)

_EY

paracar =.

HINH SaS S

tK(9)

Ne.

REC4562-117290-206

EX-101

7 MAY 5: 1977

Assoc. Dir. _ =

Dep. AD Adm. -

25NCLOSURE

IH10X.

Dep. AD Inv.-

• JIAE

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sorv.

-DE

mer

Ext. Affairs -

Fin. & Pors.".

MAILED 10

PERS ReCONL

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

MAY 4

1977.

Inspection

APPROVED:

Adm. Serv...

Intoll. _

FBI.

Losed countrol

Laboratory.-

Ext. Affairs.

Plan. &.Insp...

Legal Coun..

Directora

Fin. & Pers:.

Rec. Mgt

•Plan. & Eval.

Assoc. Dir..

Gen. Inv...

Roc. Mgnt. -

Spoc.iInv.

Training

feu"

Ident..

8..& T. Se

Spec. Inv

THen Ash. 1_ 1 1977.

Tratning..

"Birdetor Soe"

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT E

'55025

DocId:32989739

Page

39

GPO: 1976 0-207-526

---

## Page 40

- Fine,

• - Mr. Fehl

1

- Mr. Peelman

1

- Mr. Lawn

2: - Mi. Mintz (Attn:

Mr: Daly)

May 2, 1977

RE:

HOUSE SELECT CORMITTER ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE. OF REPRESENTATIVES (ESCA)

APRIL 5, 1977, REQUEST OF ESCA FOR INFORMAIION

IN POSSESSION OF FEE FBI PERTAINING TO ARTHUR J.

HANES, SR., OF BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA.

This will respond to an April 5, 1977, letter to the

Attorney General from U.S. Congressman Louis Stokes, Chairman,

ESCA, requesting information in possession of the FBI pertaining

to Arthur J. Hanes, Sx», of Birmingham, Alabama,

All references to Arthur J. Hanes, St-, contained in the

FBI's Martin Luther King, JI., civil rights assassination file

(44-38861, abbreviated as the "MURKIN" file) have already been

available

for ESCA access.

As you are aware, the FEI's "MURKIN"

file has been available for USCA access at FBI Headquarters, and

a thorough review of this file by ESCA personnel will permit the

ISCA to retrieve all of the desired information contained therein

pertaining: to Mr. Hanes.

In addition, based upon a review of FBI Feadquarters'

indices, all other pertinent material pertaining to Mr. lanes in

the files of FBI Headquarters has been processed and is now

available for ESCA access at FBI Headquarters

I - Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert. L. Keuch

245852

Assoc. Dir.

op. AD Ado. —

ap. AD Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. _

Ext. Affair

Fin. & Por ANH : Sas

Assistant. Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs

Were

SEE. NOTE PAGE TWO

Ident. -

Inspection.

Intell.=

Laboratory -

Logal Coun..

Plan. & Evai. —

Roc. Mgnt.

Spoc. Inv._i

Training -

Telephone Rm._

Director Soc'y -

MAIL ROOM LE

НН 55025 Do0Id:32989739

TELETYPE UNIT E

Page

40

'APPROVED:

-"Adm. serv..

Ext. Affairs.

Director..

Fin. & Pers...

Assoc, Dir..

•Gen. Inv.....

Jep. AD Adr

Dip. AD inv Spur

ident.

Plan. & Insp...

Rec. Mgt.

• a !. Sen

pec. Inv. MYW

-117 290

Training..

GPO: 1976 0 = 207-52 ENCLOSURE!

---

## Page 41

dear a tig

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NOTE: This responds to a request of HSCA regarding information

in possession of the FBI pertaining to Arthur J. Hanes, Sr., Of

Birmingham, Alabama. Hanes is a former Special Agent of the FBI

who entered on duty on 10/25/48, and resigned on 8/4/51, (Bufile

67-175292). Hanes was Mayor of Birmingham from 1961 to 1963.

Hanes initially acted as counsel for James Earl Ray after he was

apprehended in 1968 after the murder of King.

Based upon an agreement between the Department and the

HSCA, the MURKIN file has been appropriately excised to protect

informants, etc., and has already been available for HSCA access.

In addition, all

other pertinent references to Hanes have now been

processed including making appropriate excisions, etc., and are

now available for HSCA access.

The nature of the information

HSCA desired from the FBI files, as determined through liaison

coordinated with the Office of Congressional Affairs, Legal Counsel

Division, concerned the date Hanes entered on duty as a Special

Agent of

the FBI, any information relating to radical, racial

associations, etc.,

and any information indicating why he desired

to defend Ray.

-2.

H 55025

DocId:32989739

Page 41

---

## Page 42

C2219

April 11, 1977

Honorable Louis Stokes

Chairman

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D. C. 20515

Dear Mc. Chairman:

On behalf of the Attorney General, I would like to

acknowledge receipt of your letter dated April 5, 1977

concerning information pertaining to Arthur J. Hanes.

We will be sending you a more detailed response dealing

with the issues raised in your letter in the near future.

Sincerely,

15/

Patricia M. Wald

Assistant Attorney General

let to AAGICO

- 2-77 Exc-2)

I-AAG/OLA (ENO)

HH 55025 DooId: 32989739 Page 42

62-117290-2016

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 43

12219

APR 8 8 20 AH1 '77

bLi:

Select Committee on Assassinations

W.S. House of Representatives

3342 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 5, 1977

RECEIVED

APR 8 1977

O.L.A.

The Honorable Griffin Bell

Attorney General

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C.

20530

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In furtherance of the Select Committee's investi-

gation into the assassination of Martin Luther King, JI.,

I hereby request that you make available to the Committee

all information in the possession of the Justice Department

and the Federal Bureau of Investigation which pertains to

Arthur J. Hanes, Sr. Of Birmingham, Alabama.

Mr. Hanes

was retained by James Earl Ray in June of 1968 and served

as his attorney until November of that year.

Mr. Ray

has recently given

the Committee a letter waiving his

attorney-client privilege with respect. to Mr. Hanes, and

a copy of that letter is enclosed.

Thank you in advance for your anticipated cooperation.

Very ty

YOurs,

CД9455996M40 Wipe

Louis Stokes

Chairman

RJL:IS :aS

• Enclosure i

rides.

236380-4-1

APR 8• 1977

1.4.8

TO-.4149

62-117290-20

Has boss store page 13

---

## Page 44

ge

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Ext Affairs -

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv. -

dent _

Intell. .

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.-

Pec. Mgt.-

S. & T. Servy

spec. Inv. C

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

PX0403 11621357

RR HQ

DE PX

R.2621352 APR APR17

FM

PHOENIX (62 2134)

TO DIRECTOR (62 117290) ROUTINE

BT

CLEAR

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

REBUTEL TO LITTLE ROCK, AND LITTLE ROCK TEL TO PHOENIX,

APRIL 25, 1977.208

FORMER SAC RAYMOND L. FAISSI CONTACTED BY PHOENIX SAC AT

PHOENIX APRIL 25, 1977, AND FURNISHED INFORMATION IN REBUTEL.

62-117290-205

REC-45

EX-101

APR 29 1977

ATT, T''

HH 55025

56 MAY

9 1977

DoCId:32989739

Page 44

---

## Page 45

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm

Dep. AD Inv

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Sert. -

Est. Affairs

C,

TP0D07 1170238

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident..

RR HQ

DE TP

Ara 26 S 43 Fi'Ti

RECEIVED

OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SEC TICH

Intell.

Legal Coan.

Plan. & Insp

Rec. Mgt.

S. & T. Serv.

Spec. Inv.

Training

R 262225Z APR 7'7

Telephone

Rm.

Director's Sec'y-

FM TAMPA (67-00-718)

TO DIRECTOR (62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

Penan

CLEAR

CHOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

TalI

RE BUREAU TELETYPE, APRIL 25, 1977.208

FORMER SAC GEORGE W. HALL, 5598 TRELLIS LANE, FT. MYERS,

FLAO, TELEPHONE (813) 481-5006, WAS ADVISED BY SAC OF CONTENTS OF

RETEL. HE STATED HE HAD NOT AS YET BEEN CONTACTED BY HSCA

AND PRIOR TO TALKING TO THEM HE DEFINITELY WOULD CONTACT LEGAL. •

COUNSEL DIVISION. FOR ADVICE.

BI

• REC 61

62-117290-204

ascentEr 257452520- 1311565

ST-108

8 APR 29 1977

62-117290

248882

кратаски

84 MAY 6 1917.

NH 55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 45

---

## Page 46

LRO 003 1152339Z

00 HI PX

DE LR

U 252312Z. APR 77

Ara 25 7 43 FH '71

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

5RS

OF INVESTIGATICH

FM

LITTLE ROCK (66-1943)

CONMUNICATIONS SECTIO.1

IÜ DIRECTOR (62-117298)

(IMMEDIATE)

PHOENIX ( IMMEDIATE)

Assoc. Ditt

Dep. AD Adi.

Dep. AD Int

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv. -

Ext.

Affairs -

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Iny.

Ident.

Intell.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp

Rec.

Mgt.-

S. & 1. Sery

Spec. Inv.

Trining

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

BT

nar

CLEAR

PERSONAL ATTENTION

:. 15/97 25 paraspare

GOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINAZIONS (HOSA)

-

REFERENCE FBIHQ TEL TO ALL SACS AND LEGAIS, NOVEMBER 24, 19765

AND

FBIHQ TEL TO LITTLE RÜCK, APRIL 25, 1977.208

BUREAU ADVISED IN RETEL TO LITTLE ROCK THIS DATE THAT THE

HSCAg

RELATIVE IÚ THEIR INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION OF

MARTIN LUTHER KING, REQUESTED THAT FBIHQ FURNISH PRESENT WHEREABUUTS

UF ALI!

SACS WHO SERVED IN THE BIRMINGHAM DIVISION BETWEEN DECEMBER,

1962,

AND DECEMBER, 1969. LITILE RUCK WAS REQUESTED TO CONTACI

FURMER SAC RETIRED, RAYMOND LO FAISSI, 113 CAMBRIDGE PLACE, LIITLE

ROCK, ARKANSAS.

FORMER SAC RETIRED, RAYMOND LO FAISST'S PRESENT ADDRESS IS

7542 PLEASANT RUN, SCOTISDALES ARIZONA, 85258 REC-62 - 117240

PHUENIX CONTACI FORMER SAC RETIRED RAYMON-FO FAISSI AND

ADVISE HIM THAT HE MAY BE CUNTACIED BY HCSA FUR INTERVIEW.

77 APR 24 19711

FACSIMILE COPY OF RETEL BEING FORWARDED TO PHOENIX.

20!

BT

.....

H# 55025 DooId: 32989739 Page 46

---

## Page 47

24а ED

1.

Assistant Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs

Director, FBI

FEDERAL GOVERNHENT

HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

April 25, 1977

1 - Mr. Fehl

1

- Mr.

Peelman

Mr.

Lawn

2

- Mr.

Mintz

Vir•

Daly)

1 - Mr.

Long

(Attn':

Reference is made to your letter dated April 1l, 1977,

which enclosed a letter from U.S. Congressman Louis Stokes,

Chairman, HSCA, U. S. House of Representatives, dated April T,

1977. We are hereby responding to the portion of the letter

from U. S. Congressman Stokes which pertains to (1) the present

whereabouts and employment records of three FBI Agents assigned

to the Louisville Office of the FBI in 1965, and (2) a list of

all Special Agents-in-Charge of the Birmingham Office of the FBI

from December, 1962, to December, 1969.

UNIT

to this HSCA request regarding the above two items.

desire to furnish a copy of this enclosed memorandum to the

in making your response concerning this request.

Also, for your information; we are notilying all oi

chese employees or former employees of the fBI concerning the ascr

interest and of the employee

secrecy agreement regarding disclosure

of information.

EX-106.

Enclosures - 2

1 - Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

REC-SO

Attention:

Mr. Robert I. Keuch

62-117290-200

HINH: SAS ĐO

MR (10)

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm

Dop. AD hb 2=11-7.290

EVERE DAS

1 6234

APR 2'8 1977

=x1. Alairs.

Fin.

Gen.

Idoper

Inspottion

Intoll. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Eval.,

.. N

MAY 9 1977

An Unir

MAILED 2

1ERZ

1977

Fol

-ARENONSE

Adazi Settie

Ext Affairs..

Fia, & Persi

Plan. & Insp.;

Rec, 'Mgt.?:-

Diration

Пос. x. 002

iotent....'

Spec. Inv.-

Training

elephone Rmix

irector Sos' yo MAIL ROOM:

55025 DocId: 32989739

-Trainisig.

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 47

GPO: 19760 - 207-526

---

## Page 48

adi:

1 - Mr. Fehl

1 - Mr. Peelman

1

-Mr. Lawn

2 - Mr. Mintz (Attn:

Mr. Daly)

1 - Mr. Long

April 25, 1977

RE:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

APRIL 7, 1977, REQUEST OF HSCA FOR. (1) THE

PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AND EMPLOYHIENT RECORDS OF

THREE FBI AGENTS ASSIGNED TO LOUISVILLE IN 1965,

AND (2) A LIST OF ALI SPECIAL AGENTS IN CHARGE OF

THE BIRVINGHAM OFFICE FROM DECEMBER, I962, TO

DECEMBER, 1969.

This will respond to an April 7, 1977, letter to the

Attorney Genera. from U.s. Congressman Louis stokes, Chairman,

FISCA, requesting (1) the present whereabouts and employment

records of three FBI Agents assigned to the Louisville FBi Office

In 1965: Robert. Peters, William Duncan and Mr. (First Name

Unknown) Brown, and (2) a 11st o1 all special Agents-in-charge

o1 the Birmingham IB. Office from December, 19ocs to December,

19b9. The lollowing are responses to the above two items.

(I.) "Robert Peters," 1s identified as Special Agent

Robert E: Peters who

on duty as a special Agent of the

1951, and was reinstated as a Special Agent of the FBI in July of

1951. He was assigned to the Louisville Office of the fBi from

July of 1951 until June of 1975 when he voluntarily retired from

FBI service: His nature of assignment at louisville in 1965 in-

cluded investigating criminal cases, service as a Relief

Supervisor, service as a general police instructor, and

participation In FBI applicant recrultment. The last address we

Assoc.Dr have for tir. Peters is 412 Trinity Hllis Lane, Louisville,

Dop. ADAgentucky 40207.

Dap. AD Inv. _

Archose to Sot to AAE-office of Segistate

Asst. Dir.:

affairs +500 4-25-17

Adm. Sory.T-

Ext. Affairs

Fin, & Pers. -

Gen. Inv.-

Idens. =

Inspoction

Intoll. _=

Laboratory =

Legal Coun.-

Assistant Attorney General

Office of Legislative Affairs

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

I..

: Арпасрася.

Rec. Mgnt..

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE

Spoc. Inv.-

Training 62-117290

Tolephone Rm. =

Diracior Soc'y — MAIL ROOM L

HH 55025 DocId:32989739 Page 48

ENCLOSURE,

TELETYPE UNIT L

o mo-a 62-11729-200

---

## Page 49

HOUSE SOLECI COLTIITTRE ON ASSASSINATIONS

"Willian Duncan," 13 identified as Special Agent

Willian I. Duncan who entered on auty as a Special Agent of the

the TBI from Fobruary of 1952 to May of 196% His nature of

assignment at Louisville in 1905 Included investigating criminal

cases, service as a Pellef Supervisor, service as a police

Instructor, and participation in FBI applicant recruitnent.

Ex. Duncan

1s presently assigned to the lerico, lissouri, Rosident

Agency of the st. Louis Office of the FBI.

"fir. Drown.:, the agent-in-charge of that field

offico (Louisville) In 1965," 1s Identifled as former Special Agent

Charge Fernard C. Drown who entered on duty as a Special Agent

of the fat on septenber 3, 1940

He was assignco to the Louisville

OLICe OI the ISI 170N FeDrUarY OI 190S UNtIL DECOMDOr O1 1003

when he, voluntarily retired from FBI servico.

Hls nature of

assignment at Louisville, while he was assigned during 1965, tas

as Special Agent In Charge of all operations of the Louisville

office.

The last address wo have for ls. Drown Is 6940 lythe

11l1 Cirale, Prospoot, Kentucky 40059.

(2) The following In a list of all Special Agents In

Charge of the Birmingham Office of the FBI Irom December of 1962

to December of 1969:

Raymond Faisst from October, 1962 to

leorge " fall fron January, 196l, to rebruary 1908s Joseph Il.

Camblo fron Tobruary, 1904,

to August, 1968; and Ralph d, Miles

from August, 1963, to January, 1975-

NW. 55025 DocId:32989739

Page 49

---

## Page 50

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NOTE: This responds to a request of HSCA regarding whereabouts

and

employment records of three fBI Agents assigned to Louisville

in 1965 and a list of all Special Agents-in-Charge in Birmingham

from 1962 to 1969. By separate communication the employees or

former employees are being notified of HSCA interest. This

coordinated with Legal Counsel Division.

Information concerning those Agents assigned to

Louisville Office in 1965 obtained from personnel files 67-459530

(Peters), 07-464299 (Duncan), and 67-150960 (Brown). Intormatior

re SACs in Birmingham obtained from Finance and Personnel Division.

The nature of the information HSCA desired from the

personnel files was determined through liaison coordinated with

Office of Congressional Affairs, Legal Counsel Division.

- 3 -

HH 55025

DocId:32989739 Page 50

---

## Page 51

C221

ASSISTANT ATSORNEY GENE

MA LEGISLATVE AFFAIRS

Department of Justire

Mashington, Đ.0. 20530

April 11, 1977

Honorable Louis Stokes

Chairman

Select Committee on Assassinations

House of Representatives

Washington, D. C.

40515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

On behalf of the Attorney General, I would like to

acknowledge receipt of your letter dated April 7, 1977

requesting a briefing of your staff and copies of various

FBI files.

We will be sending you a more detailed response dealing

with the issues raised in your letter in the near future.

Sincerely,

Patricia M. Wald

Assistant Attorney General

2 38080%

197

leT TOAAG/OLA sort.

441-425-72

MNH: Dels. (Enc-2)

1-AAG, Co, coaruon

111. Robert Kauch

DocId: 32989739

Page 51

ENCLOSURE

17- 117290-200

Gatt

---

## Page 52

ArR 8 8 20 11'77

Ut :

Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatives

3542 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

April 7, 1977

RECEIVED

. APR & 1977

OLA

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the Unitéd States

Department of Justice

washington, D.C.

20430

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In furtherance of the Select Committee's investigation

into the assassination of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., I

hereby request that Department of Justice attorney Stanley

Pottinger meet with

members of the staff of our Committee

to discuss the Justice Department's review of the investi-

gation into the death of DI. Martin Luther King;

Additionally, I hereby request the present whereabouts

and employment records of three FBI agents who in 1965 were

assigned to the Louisville, Kentucky FBI field office. These

• three are:

Robert Peters!

William Duncan and Mr. Brown,:

do not know the first name of Mr. Brown, but I am informed

that he was the agent-in-charge of that field office in 1965.

Additionally, I hereby request that you furnish the

staff of the Select Committee with a list of all special

agents-in-charge of the Birmingham, Alabama field office of

the FBI from December, 1962 to December, 1969.

We greatly appreciate your assistance in this matter.

With best wishes and kind regards, I. am,

Sincerely,

Louis Stokes, M.C;

Chairman

FLOSURE

55025 DooId: 32989739 Page 52

62-117290

136380

APR & 1977

3: J

R.A.0

LECT

CORICE GE MAT. & FINANCE

FORMAL

---

## Page 53

(Rev. 2-14-74)

FBI

Date: 3/21/77

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Precedence)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861)

L 12|085

FROM:

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (44-1740) (RUC)

SUBJECT: MURKIN

H11.

CR

00: MEMPHIS

ON MECHANINS

перетасрки

Re Birmingham airtel dated 3/3/77,182X

The following is for information:

The former Birmingham PCI of referenced

communication was in telephonic contact with Birmingham

on 3/21/77 and furnished the following information:

He continues to conduct his own inquiries

regarding captioned matter and the FRANK LIBERTO previously

mentioned by him, currently resides in Memphis, Tennessee,

at an unknown address.

At the time of the King murder,

FRANK LIBERTO had an office in Memphis and is believed

still have the office at 327 South Main Street, Memphis,

in the back of a whiskey store which he owns.

He has

additional businesses in Memphis, identity unknown to

source.

62-117 290-19741

Mr. EDDIE EVANS of the House of Representatives

Committee (referenced airtel) first met personally with

source on March 10 or 11, 1977, in Birmingham and is in

touch with source on a daily basis. EVANS went to the

Birmingham Police Department after

he talked to source and

obtained some records at that institution where he was

1Q - Bureau

44358126144

I - Memphis (44-1987) (IntBEC-I|

1 - New Orleans

PJM: jab (1 - Birmingham

ST-10)

23 MAR 24 1977

(5)

Tie Cnfidential

sonce is itions Doves whe

on s/30/i1 that he can be ititifred to the!

Approved:

K/AB

- sorce of the informatim

BH Teletype

5/31/17 Sent

and BH Piral 6/1/77

Special Agent in Charge

• 122051078-33

GPO: 1975 0 - 590-992

Page 53

---

## Page 54

BH 44-1740

apparently in touch with Captain LEGRAND. EVANS told source

that he had been riding around with the Birmingham Police and

source complained to EVANS in this regard and expressed

concern to EVANS that source's identity would be compromised.

In the week of March 14, 1977, source saw and heard

CaptainIEGRAND on a local television station making a press

release regarding this matter.

Source was contacted in the week of March 14, 1977,

by Birmingham newspaper reporters, believed to be ENU

BRAY

information.

Source advised further that Dr. GUS JOSEPH PROSCH,

JR. (BH airtel 12/15/76) and FRANK LIBERTO were very bie

in the drug traffic in the Southeast and he has been anc

continues to furnish such information toDA, Birmingham.

2

KH 55025 DocId: 32989739

Page 54

---

## Page 55

3/8/77

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FDI (62-117290)

GENERAL INVISTIGATIVI DIVISION

CIVIL RIGITS SECTION,

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

FROM: SAC, KANSAS CITY (175-64) P

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASCASSINATIONS

Be Butel to All Offices, 1/26/77 and lansas

City letter to the Lureau, 2/2/77

captioned, "HARTIN

LUCILI KING, JR., DEPARTIENTAL REVIEW, COST DATA".

In accordance with Bureau instructions set

forth in referenced lutel, the following information is

being furnished for the wonth of February, 1977:

1. ) Manpower:

Agent hours (GS 13, Step 9): 5

Steno hours (GS 6, step 7): 1

2. ) Unusual cost: None

3.) Cost of responding to inquiries

from other agoncies, Congressional committees,

and

request under Ireedon of Information and Privacy Act:

Puture monthly reports in this matter will be

submitted monthly under above caption.

None.

3,

- Bureau

2 - Kanses City

IPli: cd

(5)

firmagnive

55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 55

---

## Page 56

3/3/77

AINTEL

AIR "'AIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTI?:

GIATRAI INVISTIGATIVE DIVISION

CIVIL RIGIES SECTIOT,

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

TROL: 2AC, KANSAS CITY (175-C4)

NCUSE SEILCE COMTITTEE

ORT ABSASSINATIONS

Ie Butcl to All Offices, 1/26/77 and Kansas

City lotter to the Lureau, 2/2/77

captioned, "HANTIIT

LUTHER LING, JIL, LEPARTILNTAL NEVILY, COST' DATA".

In accordance with Bureau instructions set

forth in refereuced Lutel, the following information is

being furnished for the month of Fcbruary, 1977:

1.) Manpower:

Agent hours (GS 13, Step 9): €

cteno hours (GS 6, Step 7): 1

2.) Enusual cost: Hone

3.) Cost of responding to inquiries

fron other agencies, Congressional cormittees, and

request under Freedon of Information and Privacy Act: None,

Vuture monthly reports in this matter will be

subnitted mouthly under above caption.

3 - Burosu

2 - Kansas

JEE: cd

(5)

City

pissagae

55025

70n70:32989739

Pare 56

---

## Page 57

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/16/77

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Precedence)

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861)

LEGAT, OTTAWA (44-4) (RUC)

MURKIN

Re ME airtel and LHM, 3/2/77.

44. 38561-6186

Info referenced LHM furnished RCMP.

For info HQ and Memphis, RCMP

Ottawa, advise that

a request has been received from the House Select

Committee on Assassinations for production of alt

pertinent RCMP record's.:

On 3/15/77

Legat, Ottawa, was advised that due

th be to conny van the meet pot the committee..

RCMP have been requested to be advised when the

House Select Committee terminates, as a decision to

dispose of evidence will be made at that time. i:

Ottawa setting

an administrative tickler for

a six-month period.

62-117290-1971

REC-59

- Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison-Direct)

(1 - Memphis (44-1987-Sub M)

1 - Ottawa

JAM/bad 1- CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

6 5 c 3/25/17

MEMPHIS

0-7

8: MAR 22 1977

AIL I!

bass tracpare

# 945,83

Sent -

HH

Approved

25 CecI

97 pecial Agent in Charge

Page 57

---

## Page 58

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

EDITION

OSA FEMA ER COR 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

RICHARDG. HEID

:The Associate Dire

ALL INFORATIOT

FROM :Legal Couns

E REIN IN

DAT2 1219/13

SUBJECT:HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

ST

DATE: 4/7/77

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dire:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv.

Ident..

Intell.

Legal Coun

Plan. & Inspi

Rec. Mgs. -

S.& T. Serv.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Secy -

The purpose of this memorandum is to advise of an

attempt to interview Congressman Gene Snyder (Kentucky) re-

garding information in his possession concerning allegations

made. by Clifton E. Baird that Agents of the FBI attempted to

recruit Baird to assassinate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

' DETAILS:

Congressman Gene Snyder (Kentucky) recently issued

a press release stating that Clifton E. Baird had made allega-

tions to him that Special Agents of the FBI had attempted to

recruit Baird to assassinate Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

Baird claims to have tape recordings of conversations that

would support his allegations.

On March 29, 1917, Robert L. Keuch, Deputy Assistant

Attorney General, Criminal Division, was. contacted by Supervisor

Paul V. Daly, Office of Congressional Affairs, Legal Counsel

Division, regarding the propriety of contacting Congressman,

snyder to obtain any information in his possession regardine

to the seriousness of these allegations, the FBI would be

remiss in not making an effort to interview Congressman Snyder

regarding this matter.

REC-104 662-117290

— 193

On March 29, 1977, SA Danny O. Coulson,

Office of

Congressional Affairs, Legal Counsel Division, contacted

William E. Tanner, Administrative Assistant to Congressman

and advised him that a representative of the Legal

Counsel Division would like to talk to the Congressman regarding

I - Mr. Moore

CONTINUES MOVER

1 - Mr.

Boynton

1

Mr.: Peelman

Mr.

Lawn

APR 20 1977

1 - Mr.

Mintz

**;

2: - Mr.

-

Daly

I - Mr. Coulson

/C04654

DOC: mcz

(9)

ming

BASELS

844926.1977

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Elan

WW 550250-100cId: 32989739 Page 58

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 59

-49: "

Legal Counsel to The Associate Director

Re: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

these allegations, and to arrange for an Agent assigned to

the Washington Field Office to interview the Congressman to

determine what allegations had been made by. Baird pertaining

to the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

advised that the Congressman was. leaving that afternoon for

Kentucky. but that he would discuss the matter with him and

recontact SA Coulson at a later time.

On April 5, 191, Tanner telephonically contacted

SA Coulson and advised him that the Congressman had furnished

all information in his possession regarding this matter to the

House Select Committee on Assassinations and that the Congress-

man did not have time nor did he see the necessity. to. discuss

it with the FBI.

It should be noted that there are indications that

Congressman Snyder has allowed access to this information by

members of the press.

On Apri] 6, 1977, Robert I. Keuch was advised by

SA Coulson of the

above.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

..=

APPROVED:

Director...

Dep. AD Adm.

"Puin Dep. AD Inker

pier

_Adm. Serv....

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers..

Gen. Inv.m, ge

Ident.

Intell...

Logal cou fa

Plan. & Insp...,

Rec. Mgt...

S. & T. Serv..........

Spec. Inv....

Training..

- 2-

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page 59

---

## Page 60

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

00 (Rev. 3-28-12.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

10-106

W/Y 1962 EDITION

ASA GEN. EEGA NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Assistant Attorney General

Civil Rights Division

: Director, FBI

HOUSE SILECT COMHITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HARTEN LUTHER BING, JR.)

Tale Copy

DATE: March 21, 1977

Reference is made to

_ memorandum dated

(your file -

There is enclosed one copy of the report of Special Agent.

dated

).

at

A. [ This covers the preliminary investigation and no further action concerning

a full investigation will be taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

B.

• The investigation is continuing and you will be furnished copies of

reports as they are received.

• The investigation requested by you has now been completed. Unless

advised to the contrary no further inquiries will be made by this Bureau.

.Pursuant to instructions issued by the Department, no investigation will

noT me Co, 42, 822/736

pedest

be conducted in this matter unless specifically directed by the Department.

[ Please advise whether you desire any further investigation.

F. & This is submitted for your information and you will be advised of further

developments.

62-117

G. [ This is submitted for your information and no further investigation will

be conducted unless specifically requested by the Department.

метисают

NOT RECORDED

H. [ This covers the receipt of a complaint and no further action will st

MAR 30.1977

taken by this Bureau unless the Department so directs.

117290

Enc. (1)

I - Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

0644-38861

248882

5450

84 MAR 3 1 1977

ww 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 60

ited

I.

---

## Page 61

h

21; 1977

CR.

NAL

INVESTIGATIVE DIVISIO

This. refers to the assassination of Martin Luther

King in Memphis in April, 1968.

Attached Louisville teletype indicates that

Congressman M. G. Snyder, Kentucky, revealed on a

recently taped TV news conference that he had received

letter from an unnamed, retired police officer who

alleged that he, former police officer, had been approached

by three FBI Officers and three or four prominent

citizens with a $500,000 offer to kill Martin Luther

King on two occasions. Unnamed police officer made

tapes of these two meetings, one of which was stolen,

the other, unnamed officer turned over to the House

Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) .

Congressman Snyder said he has heard the tape

recording but could not attest to its authenticity

but indicated that Congressman Samuel L. Devine,

ohio, had checked background of former police officer

and found him to be "solid citizen."

Snyder stated that the HSCA has this matter

currently under investigation.

A review of FBIHQ files pertaining to the

assassination of Martin Luther King has failed to

reveal

any prior allegations of an alleged conspiracy

involving FBI personnel in a plot to kill

Martin Luther King.

Civil Rights Division and Criminal Division being

advised.

1

- Mr. Held

- Mr. Adams

- External Affairs Division

sirector ador

1

3/51177

giv

JCL: caw

APPROVED:

Director..

Assoc. Dir.

Dap. AD Adm.

Adm. Serv....

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv...

Ident.

Legal Coun..

Plan. & Insp..

Rec. Migt.

S. & T. SerV....--e--

Spsc. Inv..

Training...

WH 55025. DocId: 3298975g- Pagelses

---

## Page 62

I

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

C 150581 8792148

00 HQ

DE LS

AO

202148Z MAR 77

FM LOUISVILLE (100-4583) (P)

TO DIRECTOR

IMMED IATE

Fin. & Pris..

Gen. Inv.

Ident. ..

Intell.

Legal Crun.

Plan. & Insp

Rec.

Mgt.

S. & T Serv.

Spec. Inv. -.

Training -

Telephone

Rm. -

Director's Sec'y-

DUSTSR

BT

EFTO

GOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.)

ON MARCH 2D, 1977, M. G. (GENE) SNYDER, UNITED STATES

REPRESENTATIVE, FOURTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT, KENTUCKY,

APPEARING ON WHAS - TV "NEWS CONFERENCE" TAPED MARCH 18, 1977,

ComN19-1270

AT LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, REVEALED THAT HE BELIEVED INVESTI-

GATION BY HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

c debuses

WOULD BE PRODUCTIVE, EVEN THOUGH HE DID NOT INITIALLY VOTE

-=

INWR FUNDING OF SAME. SNYDER /RNDICATED. THAT HE HAD CHANGED

HIS MIND IN LIGHT OF SOME RECENT INFORMATION WHICH HE WOULD

CAREFULL® EXPLAIN SO AS TO NOT "DROP SOMEBODY IN OR " SAY

ANYTHING WRONG ABOUT SOMEBODY.

THAT SHOULDN'T BE SAID"

REC33 62- 117290=183

XEROX

2A, MAR 23: 1977

MAR 23 1977.

tomemp

3/22/27

stunt or setime.

MAR 3.g19779

redeel Staken, Jama Kis teper,

55025

Doc Id: 32989739 Magent Lay Hern twer 3/22/0). 25

6-0g

---

## Page 63

LS 100-4583

PAGE TWO

SNYDER INDICATED THAT HE HAD RECEIVED LETTER A

FEW WEEKS AGO FROM "CITIZEN WHO IS RETIRED AFTER MANY

YEARS, FROM RESPONSIBLE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND THAT THIS

"CITIZEN', NOT FURTHER DESCRIBED, HAD BEEN APPROACHED BY

THREE (3) "FBI OFFICERS" AND THREE (3) OR FOUR (4) "PROMINENT

PEOPLE AT THAT TIME IN THAT POLICE DEPARTMENT" • SNYDER

NOTED THAT THIS UNNAMED "CITIZEN" RECEIVED THIS "OFFER"

ON IWO (2) SEPARATE OCCASIONS IN HIS AUTOMOBILE WHERE HE HAD

TAPE RECORDER SECRETED. TAPES WERE MADE OF THE "OFFER" ON

BOTH OCCASIONS, HOWEVER, ONE TAPE WAS SUBSEQUENTLY STOLEN.

OTHER TAPE "CITIZEN" RETAINED AND FURNISHED SAME TO SCA

AFTER REPORTEDLY TRAVELING TO WASHINGION, D.C., AT HIS OWN

EXPENSE.

SNYDER HAS SPOKEN WITH "CITIZEN" PERSONALLY AND IN

SNYDER'S OPINION; "CITIZEN" APPEARS TO BE RESPONSIBLE. SNYDER

BELIEVES INSTANT "LEAD" AND OTHER LEADS SHOULD BE " CHECKED

OUT". BECAUSE OF INSTANT "LEAD", UNITED STATES REPRESENIATIVE

SAMUEL L. DEVINE (OHIO>, RANKING MINORITY MEMBER OF HSCA,

NOW INTENDS TO VOTE FOR CONTINUATION OF HSCA FUNDING.

AH 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 63

---

## Page 64

LS 100-4583

PAGE THREE

SNYDER REVEALS THAT LETTER WAS RECEIVED IN "REGULAR

UNITED STATES MAIL" AND THAT BASIC ALLEGATION IS THAT UNNAMED

"CITIZEN", WHO IS RETIRED POLICEMAN, WAS APPROACHED BY

"MEMBERS OF FBI AND UNNAMED POLICE DEPARTMENT" AND ENCOURAGED

TO ASSASSINATE MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. WHEN ASKED WHY SNYDER

RECEIVED LETTER, SNYDER REPLIED "TIME WILL HAVE TO TELL" AND

THAT HE "DIDN'I WANT TO GO INTO THAT".

SNYDER FURTHER REVEALED THAT UNNAMED "CITIZEN" HAS

BEEN TO WASHINGTON AND THAT HSCA NOW HAS POSSESSION OF

TAPE RECORDING WHICH IS BEING "WASHED DOWN" TO ELIMINATE

BACKGROUND NOISES SUCH AS RUNNING AUTOMOBILE ENGINE. SNYDER

HAS HEARD TAPE HIMSELF AND DESCRIBED SAME AS HAVING "SOME

PRETTY INAUDIBLE SECTIONS" WHICH ARE BEING WORKED ON AT PRESENT.

SNYDER NOTED THAT TAPE PURPORTS TO DEAL WITH INSTANT SUBJECT

MATTER. SNYDER INDICATED THAT HE COULD NOT ATTEST TO

AUTHENTICITY OF TAPE RECORDING SINCE HE WAS NOT ELECTRONICS

EXPERT, BUT NOTED SAME MUST BE DETERMINED.

SNYDER DECLINED TÒ ANSWER INTERROGATORIES AS IO WHETHER

LETTER CAME FROM HIS CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OR LOUISVILLE,

3

NH 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 64

---

## Page 65

LS

108-458.3

PAGE FOUR

KENTUCKY, NOTING HE DID NOT THINK HE OUGHT TO PLACE UNNAMED

"CITIZEN" IN JEOPARDY IF ALLEGATION IS TRUE, OR PEOPLE

MENTIONED THEREIN IN JEOPARDY IF ALLEGATION FALSE. SNYDER

BELIEVES HSCA WILL HAVE TO DECIDE WHEN NAMES OF INDIVIDALS

ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED ARE TO BE RELEASED AND MADE PUBLIC.

SNYDER DECLINED ANY FURTHER COMMENT ON MATTER, NOTING

THAT IF ALLEGATIONS WERE TRUE, UNNAMED "CITIZEN" FURNISHING

BASIS FOR SAME WOULD BE IN JEOPARDY FROM "FBI AND OTHERS

NAMED" IN LETTER, AND IF ALLEGATION NOT TRUE, "RESPONSIBLE

PERSONS® WOULD LIKEWISE BE IN JEOPARDY. SNYDER ASSUMED THAT

HSCA WOULD GIVE INDIVIDUALS NAMED IN LETTER, OPPORTUNITY

TO EXPRESS THEMSELVES AT APPROPRIATE TIME.

ON MARCH 19, 1977; "COURIER-JOURNAL", DAILY NEWSPAPER

OF GENERAL CIRCULATION, LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, CARRIED

ARTICLE CAPTIONED SNYDER GIVES PANEL ALLEGATION OF PLOT TO

ASSASSINATE KING", WHEREIN SNYDER IS REPORTED TO HAVE

REVEALED, DURING TAPING OF ABOVE TELEVISION NEWS CONFERENCE,

THAT HE HAD TURNED OVER TO HSCA AN ALLEGATION THAT FBI

AGENTS AND POLICE PLOTTED TO KILL MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

NH 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 65

---

## Page 66

L5 105-4583

PAGE FIVE

SNYDER IS REPORTED TO HAVE RECEIVED THE ABOVE- MENTIONED

LETTER IN "LATE FEBRUARY' FROM FORMER POLICEMAN WHO CLAIMS

HE WAS TWICE OFFERED SSBO, DOD TO KILL KING. SNYDER REPORTEDLY

WOULD NOT REVEAL NAME OF FORMER POLICEMAN OR NAMES OF THREE

(3) FBI AGENIND POLICEMEN ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN PLOT.

SNYDER MADE NO CONNECTION BETWEEN ALLEGED OFFER MADE TO

UNNAMED RETIRED POLICEMAN WITH MORE THAN TWENTY (20) YEARS

SERVICE, AND ACTUAL KILLING OF KING.

RICHARD A. SPRAGUE, CHIEF COUNSEL FOR HSCA, IS QUOTED

AS HAVING SAID MARCH 18; 1977, THAT SNYDER HAD TURNED OVER

MATERIAL CONTAINING THE ALLEGATION IO HSCA AND THAT MATTER IS

CURRENTLY UNDER INVESTIGATION"•

SNYDER REPORTEDLY INDICATED THAT FORMER POLICEMAN HAD

ATTEMPTED TO TURN TAPE REVEALING $50D, DOD OFFER; OVER TO

ATTORNEYS FOR JAMES EARL RAY, CONVICTED KILLER OF MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., BUT WAS FINALLY ASKED BY INVESTIGATOR FOR

ATTORNEYS, "WHERE HE PLANNED TO HIDE IF HE TRIED TO DO

ANYTHING WITH TAPE".

SAMUEL L. DEVINE, UNITED STATES REPRESENTATIVE (OHIO);

HH 55025 DocId:32989739

Page 66

---

## Page 67

LS 100-4583

PAGE SIX

HERETOFORE MENTIONED, WHO IS FORMER FEDERAL BUREAU OF

INVESTIGAIION (FBI) AGENT, REPORTEDLY HAS CHECKED INTO

BACKGROUND OF RETIRED POLICEMAN AND FOUND HIM TO BE

"SOLID CITIZEN"•

ACCOÚNT APPEARING IN "COURIER-JOURNAL" AS HIGHLIGHTED

ABOVE IS REPORTEDLY BASED ON COMFWENTS MADE BY SNYDER

DURING TAPING OF WHAS-IV "NEWS CONFERENCE" PROGRAM BROADCAST

MARCH 20, 1977: HOWEVER, NO MENTION WAS MADE BY SNYDER

OF $500, ODD AMOUNT ALLEGEDLY OFFERED RETIRED POLICEMAN,

DURING WHAS TV "NEWS CONFERENCE" AS BROADCAST ON MARCH 20;

1977.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

RE LOUISVILLE TELCALLS TO BUREAU, MARCH 19, 1977, AND

MARCH 2D; 1977.

PURSUANT TO BUREAU INSTRUCTIONS, LOUISVILLE TRANSMITTING

COPY OF MARCH 19, 1977; "COURIER-JOURNAL" ARTICLE TO FBIHQ

VIA TELECOPIER FASCIMILE. TAPE RECORDING OF WHAS-TV. * NEWS

CONFERENCE™ AND NEWSPAPER ARTICLE COPIES BEING, FORWARDED: FBIHQ

BY AIRTEL MARCH 21, 1977. LOUISVILLE WILL FOLLOW AND REPORT

6

HH 55025

DocId: 32989739

Page 67

---

## Page 68

LS 100-4583

PAGE SEVEN

ALL PERTINENT ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENTS CONCERNING

INSTANT MATTER WHICH MIGHT BE REVEALED LOCALLY AT LOUISVILLE;

KENTUCKY.

BT

P8792205 HQ 1

7

NH 55025 DocId: 32989739 Page 68

---

## Page 69

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74).

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Iny.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FBI

Date:

3/2/77

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIR MAIL

(Precedence)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

CIVIL RIGHTS SECTION,

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

FROM:

SAC, KANSAS CITY (175-64)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

"ON ASSASSINATIONS

P

Intell. -

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgt., -

S.& T. Serv.

Spec. Inv. -

Training -

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y

FBI/DOJ

le'r

lon

117

Re Butél to All' Offices, 1/26/77 and Kansas

city letter to the Bureau, 2/2/77 captioned, "MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR., DEPARTMENTAL REVIEW, COST DATA"'

In accordance with Bureau instructions set

forth in referenced Butel, the following information is

being furnished for the month of February, 1977:

1. ) Manpower:

Agent hours (GS 13, Step 9): 5

Steno hours (GS 6, Step 7): 1

2) Unusual cost: None

3.) Cost of responding to inquiries

from other agencies, Congressional committees, and

request under Freedom of Information and Privacy Act: None.

Future monthly reports in this matter will be

submitted monthly under above caption.

REC-47

62-112290-182

Bureau

- Kansas

Cidy 108

JPH: cd

(5)

3 MAR 18.1977

AIT,

Da 12193

Approved:

84 MAR 3 19N,

55025

DbeId: 32989739

Page 69

Sent

_M Per -

GPO: 1975 O - 590-992

---

## Page 70

LS 62-NEW

A Memorandum of Law in support of the complaint.

A Motion for Leave to proceed in forma pauperis.

An affidavit in support of the above Motion.

Also enclosed are three copies

each of a Memorandum

from the U. S. District Court, Western District of Kentucky,

at Paducah, Kentucky, dated 12/27/76 and judgment from that

court, also dated 12/27/76.

SA L. V. MC GINTY, JR. was personally served with

the

above documents on 1/11/77. SA MC GINTY has advised that

it is his understanding that U. S. District Judge CHARLES M.

ALLEN had dismissed one suit initiated by plaintiffs and

allowed another suit to be filed. The last two enclosed

documents refer to the first suit filed by plaintiffs, which

was dismissed by Judge ALLEN.

SA MC GINTY desires Departmental representation and

will submit to the Bureau an individual letter, addressed to

the Attorney General of the United 'States, requesting such

representation.

containing a succinct summary of

which the suit was

predicated.

2

5025

DocId: 32989739

Page 70

---

## Page 71

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

3/3/77

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

Via

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (44-38861)

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (44-1740) (RUC)

215887

MURKIN.

CR

00: MEMPHIS

macinos

Hallel deanilled

44-38661-6148, taiza

Re BIrmingham artel to Director, 12/15/76

Memphis airtel, 12/20/76.

ON

M--20600002011%3

The following is for information:

The former Birmingham PCI who furnished the

information in referenced Birmingham communication of

12/15/76, contacts: the Birmingham Office telephonically

from time to time regarding captioned matter:

On 3/3/77, he telephonically contacted Birmingham

wondering if, "LIBERTO" had been investigated in New Orleans

He was told that investigation regarding a

family of LIBERTOS had been conducted back in 1968.

mentioned that the LIBERTO in New Orleans has a brother

in the produce business in Memphis, Tennessee, and also

expressed the thought that "No one can convince me that

Source advised he received two

calls, the last on 2/28/77, from a Mr. EVANS, a deputy

chief of the House of Representatives Committee on

Assassinations.

EVANS. told, him that if they get their

appropriation, EVANS will want to talk to the source about

this matter, and the source told EVANs that he would, but

would not discuss it on the telephone.+d -s 84/dro

- Bureau i*

REC-62

- Memphis '(44-1987) (Info.)

ST-126

MAR 2 - 1877

1 - New Orleans (157-10673)

(Info.)

1 - Birmingham

The CS is

pervis Daurs who

PJM: bsg

(5)

adersed

5/31/77 that le can

idlentil ice

i imater

1 BH Aitel 6/1/77

Approved:

ST NAT 270

HH 455025 & 000

KIA

Special Agent in. Charge

X39 Page 71

- Sent —

Per -

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1969 0 - 346-090 (12)

---

## Page 72

BH 44-1740

Source advised that he had Birmingham Secret

Service check on rignes after the first telephone call

and established that EVANS was, in fact, with the committee.

Source expressed his belief that the FBI in

Washington must have furnished his information

to the

House Committee.

#H 55025

DocId: 32989739 Page 72

---

