# docid-32286391

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10167

HQ

92-3171-1795, 1796

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/14/1966

4

SGI, ASSOC, COOP, HOODULM ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

* RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY, NOTE

49.1

DocId: 32286391

97

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 17-14-2017

4-3

157-27-66)

J AIRGRAM

DECODED

• CABLEGRAM

RADIO

V.

XX TELETYPE

Tolson

**' DeLoach

Mohi —

Wick -

Casper

Callaha

Conrad

Felt -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

2:05PM CST DEFERRED 2-14-66 MKS

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

141833

SAMUEL MO

GIANCANA, AKA. AR. Anti-racketenring

John 198e

4

CT 6564 = PC ADVISED DURING|RECENT CONTACT THAT ONE OF

GREATEST FEARS CONCERNING HIS COOPERATION WITH GÜVERNMENT IS

THAT ANTHONY ACCARDO WILL BE BLAMED FOR WHATEVER PROSECUTIONS = 01217

Criminal Informont,

RESULTS FROM PO'S TESTIMONY, BASED UN CLOSE FRIENDSHIP OVER

Criminal Informoat

I PAST YEARS BETWEEN ACCARDO AND PCO PO STATES THAT ASIDE FROM

HARM THAT MIGHT BEFALL ACCARDO HE IS CONCERNED THAT SHOULD

ACCARDO BE REMOVED FRUM POSITION OF TRUST AND POWER

AMONG WA

CHICAGO HOODLUMS THAT "THE LIDE WILL BLOW OFF". PO, EXPLAINED

ACCARDO IS ONE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR KEEPING VIOLENCE AT

MINIMUM IN AREA AND IS ALSO RESPONSIBLE SOME YEARS AGO FOR

ISSUING EDICT THAT CHICAGO HOODLUMS ARE NOT TU THREATEN

1 OR CAUSE

ANY HARM TO EITHER FBI AGENTS OR NEWSPAPER:: REPORTERS.

PO STATES THAT. IF. IT WERE UP TO GIANGANA THERE WOULD

97-.

3/20, BE

1796

Lip

HTT T

EXCE

FIAN CONTAINED

KA CCTVIED

& CROWN

FEB 1 ' 196€

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FEB 2 5 1966

DATE4-24-84 BY SP5A56

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be s

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286391

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-Teased under the Tol F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection 'Act of 1992) (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2/15/66

CODE

TELETYPE

URGENT

4

TO SAC CHICAGO

FROM DIRECTOR KBI

SANUEL, I. CTANCAMA, AXA, AR

"GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

Basis

REURTEL FEBRUARY FOURTEEN, ONE NINE SIX SIX. U

SIX FIVE SIX FOUR - PC SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT YOU

EXPECT HIM TO PROVIDE ALL INFORMATION IN HIS POSSESSION

REGARDLESS OF ANY POSSIBLE EFFECT SUCH ACTION MAY HAVE ON

ANTHONY ACCARDO. U

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED'

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED:

DATE S•24-B4 BY SPSR

T'olson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahan .

Conrad

Felt

Gale .

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel -

T'rotter

Tiele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

55 FEBRU

VIA TELETYPE

ГЕВ15 1966

5іЧІРН

ENCIPHERED

NOTE:

Informant who has provided the Chicago Office with

information on hoodlum control of

Terrell-Clay heavyweight

title boxing match advises he is fearful his cooperation with

Government may result in blame being fixed on Chicago hoodlum

leader Anthony Accardo for prosecutions resulting from

informant's testimony.

Informant states aside from harm that

might befall Accardo, he is concerned in that Accardo considered

restraining influence

on underworld and if he should be removed

from position of trust and power "the lid will blow off."

Chicago being instructed to advise informant to continue

to

furnish information regardless at any ant pated allect 97 (-178

Accardo. U

TITION CONTAIN

HERE!

MOSITIR

JGL: tjm

(3)

EXCE

OTHE

FIAO

ELETYPE UNIT I

DocId: 32286391

Page 3

---

