# docid-32310584

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10305-10033

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-26

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/18/1962

6

SGR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

DocId: 32310584

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 /44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

COTIONAL FORM NO. 10

• 5010-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3960)

DATE: 4/18/62

(ATT: FBI LABORATORY, - ELECTRONICS SECTION)

SAC, NEW YORK (92-1108).

JUNE

SUBJECT:

SALVATORE GRANELLO aka

AR

On April 16, 1962, Bureau Supervisor THOMAS

„MC ANDREWS, General Investigative Division, advised Supervisor

JOHN J. DANAHY, New York Office, that authority to install

new type SPNT unitin subject's home located at Greenwood

Lake, New York, was denied.

The operation of this unit

affords both microphone and telephone surveillance coverage.

A survey of the subject!

s residence conducted on

March 30, 1962, disclosed the following:

den above the bar where

it is connected to an electro

perminal box. :From this

point all wire is jacketed three cr

mductor and is hidden

behind panelled walls.

There are two phones in the house,

• a 500 series wall-type phone located on the wall on a glass

enclosed patio-porch adjacent to the area desired to be cover

by the Misur, and an extension phone located in one of the

upstairs bedrooms

The problem in this case 1s one of egress, and the

NYO solicits suggestions from the FBI Laboratory as to ways

or means to circumvent this problem.

scadet. Clec. See.

- Bureau (92-3960)

A done terry decide soor) 92-3760-08

2 - New York (92-1108)

RNB:rdb

a Ate 1964

(5)

Letter

11/248/02

RAM:S!

LBI

MAIL RM.

DocId: 32310584

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4.

Newour conductor propaurs subject is noi

precini secupyine nis nome and his

"phone

service is no

connected; therefore, trouble cannot be put on the line ci

nature that would require a new drop line.

Necessary facilities

for this type of installation under a suitable pretext not

aïailaole to the soundmen.

inen the subject returns and

requests nes phone to be

connected, access will not be

avallable to make the necessary installation.

5.

Burying Wire Underground: The physical

layout oi subject's premises

are such

that full security

could not be assured with

this type of egress.

To ine let'

oi the subject's home is a

large

swimming pool, to the rear

is tne lake, and the other

small

remaining area is uvilized

in summer flower gardening.

Further, in view of the number

of summer homes in the immediate area, and the necessity of

phone men making phone

installations and repairs would preclude

nurring of aerial wire to a crossbox on plant with security.

The subjectle povurn to dads area in ine near future

1e ant:/pated and it is therefore recuested that the Bureau

expedite unde natter.

DocId: 32310584

Page

---

