# docid-32199809

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10274-10044

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116464-212

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

BRANIGAN, W. A.

SULLIVAN, W. C.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 03/04/1964

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT:

LHO, RP, SUICIDE ATTEMPT, DEFECT TO RUSS, POST-RP, TRIP TO MX 9/26/63,

MNO, BKG, PHOTO, HUNT, E. HOWARD, STURGIS, FRANK, VALLEE, THOMAS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/01/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (3)

BULKY, INC MEMO, 1083 OF 1091 PAGES NAR

DocId: 32199809

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released, under the John E Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2107

Hote).

DATE: 1'

7-11-201, 7

OPTIONAL PORM-NO. 10

3010-100

OBEGIN.

ded. NO 18

INMENT

Memorandum

ALL IMMORYATIUN CORSETTIVan WICS

LASSIFIED

18-3/43

ERE SHOWA

FROM SIMEOWI

W. A. Branigan i

STIJECT:

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

Classified by_98091

CIA HAS AN NO-JECTION TO:

DEF

AN 0/08

#ÉORMATION

3/4/64

SECKER:

IN THIS DOCUMEN

Belmont JBH

21-93

DeLoach

Sullivan

9803O0|E1

SECREI

1

- D. E. Mooze,

]

- Papich

- Branigan

19-43

DECEASES EY 5660 - 50STa

t192.

SYNOPSIS:

•AR

This memorandum

Yuri dosenio by Bureau Agents during the week of 2121-28/61-2-11

Yuri Nosenko is the Soviet intelligence agent who defected

to CIA in Geneva, Switzerland, 2/5/64. CIA furnished us with

information concerning its interviews of the subject.

On 2/24/64 our

Agents began interviewing Nosenko. He furnished considerable

information concerning recruitments and recruitment attempts made

against United States citizens and United States Government employees

in the USSR.

not infiltrated the fBi.

furnished

substantiated by facts_already in our

Lee Harvey Oswald, Noseniso said the KGS considered hin

• Concerning

be mentally

unstable. When told that he could not stay in the Soviet Union, Oswald

attempted suicide by cutting his wrists and was rushed to a hospital.

Through the ied Cross or

Ministry of foreign Affairs (MA), Gswald

was permitted to stay in Minsk, Russia.

Nosenko next heard of him wuen

he visited tie soviet Embassy,

Mexico City, and irA made inquiry of

the KGB and was told that he was of no value.

Nosenko last heard of

Oswald in connection with the assassination of President Kennei!'.

According to Nosenko, Marina Oswald was not a KGB agent:

furnished information which indicates Anatole Kotloky,

subject

current investigation is identical with a KGB agent.

He also turnisned

information that a former governess of the children of the Unit:

Ambassador in Moscow and now a teacher in the American school was

recruited by the KGB

the basis ot her seduction sy to dtrien

students in

MOSCOW

Maried by ins

Exempt from City

Carren 212.

*5 AR 25 7954

has staddduit tieves Nosenko is a deception agen

and a plant

to disrupt American inteiligence work.

He"sunot aciupe

this analysis as necessarily correc..

We are interviewing Nosentio

ith an open sind and are checking out the information which ne urniste

ter this tu. jeen done, it is believed an intelligit ovaluation can

we made of hi. worth.

Details of the highlights of the information

furnished by osenko

during he weeis of, 2/24-28/64 are attached: Stüncl

65-68530

* sual information funnesheé

"to Presidinto Commission.

1 3L

DocId: 32199809

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassinal

DATE: 11-14-2017

Not of 1992 (11 USC, 2107 Hote).

emo W. A. Branigan to W. C. Sulliv

YURI IVANOVICH NOSENKO

15-68530

3.

Johanna Ross.

Johanna Ross is an American citizen

who went to Russia as a governess for the children of the American

Ambassador. Nosenko stated that she is promiscuous and was seduced

by two Airican students and was then compromised by the KGB. Our

files show that Ross is the hoider of a current United States passport

and investisation of her background has been instituted: (sl

Information concerning various American citizens who

have been compromised in the USSh and recruitment attempts made against

them has been given by Nosentio.

He referred to the attempt to recruit

Robert James Barrett, American medical student who was an interpreter

lat the United States Plastics Ixhibition in Russia in 1959.

NO

recruitment attempt was made in 1959; however, when he returned to

(Russia

in 1961, he

was recruited on the basis of the compromise eifected

during his 1959

Barrett is now an informant of the Bureau. In

addition,

Nosenko told of recruitment operations against employees of

the

anerican imbassy, such

as Janes I. Keyzers, Joseph Marone, Matthew

Zujus, Edwin Smith,

James

Storsberg

lof which we had previously known.

peter Binder and Walter Mule, al1

Enformation about attempts

recruit newspapermen

stationed in Moscow has ben given by Nosenko.

said an Associated

Press representative in

Noscow had been recruited.

At this time there

are three representatives and ve have opened cases to attempt to les.

identify, the one who has been recruited.

/ Nosenko told of the recruitment

American Broadcasting Company C

correspondent in Moscow.

1l We have intervieved Jaile and he gave us this information prior to his

recent retuin to Moscow. (Nosenko also claims that Thomas Whitney had

furnished nonessential intornation to the KGB in Moscow but reiused to

do so on his return to

the United States.

He also said that Eddy Gilmore

the Associated Press was a recruitment target and that Francis Stevens

o1 United States News

and World Report was compromised.

We knew of the

compromise action against Stevens since he had told us about it and we

also knew

that Whitney and Gilmore, both married to Soviet citizens,

targets.

6.

Nosenio also gave information concernin; irdividual

travelers to Russia, who had been recruited and individual case files

have been opened on them.

SINES

Princill,

DocId: 32199809

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DATE :

M-11-201e John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Col

Lection Act of 1992 144 050 2107

Hotej.

O sa

:K0081

MENT

Memorandum

". C. Sullivan up

10:-1/63

st

TI. INF!

PERSIN

T. A. Branigant

OM

GECLASSIFIED, BY SEX

7492

So do

1544/61

vans -

SYNOPSIS:

1

-

Belmont

DeLoach

Sullivan

"aln. Hoom

SECRET

D. to Moore.

G'i!

Papich

Branigan

Мана,

-

11.7

DECLASSIFICAT

Declassity on:

774

RELEASE OR C

ANDIOR

NATE

IN THIS DOCU

This memorandun summarizes

the

results of intervitr

by furcau Agents during the week ofe

is the Soviet intelligence agent who defected

information concerning

interviews of the subject.

agents began interviewing a

He furnished considerable

information concoming recruitmonts and recruitment attempts made

agninst United Statos citizens and United States Government employees

in the USSR.

not infiltrated tie

He sinted that the soviet Intelligence

• Service (KGB)_has

HOSi

of the

information whiche

urnishe

substantiated byeacts already in our

files.

Concerning

Lee Harvey Oswait,

so said the KGS considered him

be mentally

unstable.

toid that he could not stay in the soviet Union, Oswald

attempted suicide by cutting his wrists and was rushed to a hospital.

Through the jed Cross or Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MA), Oswald

was permitted to stay in Minsis, Russia.

• next heard of him wien

he visited tue soviet Embassy,

Mexico City, and ira made inquiry of

the KGB and ins told that he was of no value.

last heard of

Oswald in connection with tho assassination of President Kennei..

According

Marina Oswald was not a KGB agent.

She was

not

considerca particularly intelligent and had been dropped

Konsomol (young conmunist groug) for nonbeynent of dies t

1gor ti

furnished information which indicates Anatole kotlody, subject

current investigation is identical with a KGB agent.

He also

turnished

information that a former governess

the childron of no Uni

States

ambassador in "oscow and now a

tcacher in the American school

recruited by the kGB on the basis of her seduction y too.

students in Moscow.

aren 25/2

"AR 25 1964

L'AR

furnished

65-68530

JPL: pa (8) y

We are interviewi;

Details of the hichlirats of thc nformation

during the week of

i Canaly formation furnisned

are attached:

Stoned

Poto Presiding Commission.

SEGRET M SEM

DocId: 32199809

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the. John"F. Kennedy

DATE: 11-14-2017

eds Collection Act of 1992. (11-USC 2107 Note):

mo N. A. Branigan to V.

C. Sullimn

- 68530

SELL

3.

sis an American citizen

ho went to Russia as a governess for the children of the American

mbassador.

"estated that she is promiscuous and was seduced

y two African students and was then compromised by the KGB. Our

iles show that Ross is the holder of a current United States

Information concerning various American citizens who

have been compromised in the USSR ard rscruitment attempts made against

then has been given by i

He referred to the attempt to recruit

knew, American medical student who was an interpreter

at the United States Plastics Exhibition in Russia in 1959. No

recruitnent attempt was made in 1959; however, when he returned

Russia in 1961;

he vas recruited on the basis

during his: 1959 trip.

is now an informant of the Bureau.

laddition,

sold of recruitment operations against employees of

the American imbassy, such as gene

of which we

areviously know. *C*(u)

and

Information about attempts to recruit newspapermen

stationed

in Moscow has ben given by

• He said an Associated

Press representative in Moscow had been recruited. At this time there

are three representatives and we have opened cases to attemot to lisa

identify the one who has been recruited.

-told of the recruitment

of Sam jazze,

recent return to Moscow.

malso claims that

furnished nonessential

"sonation to the Ica in lioscow bus refused to.

do so on his return to the United States.

He also said that

the associated ?ress was a recruitment target and that

United States. News and World Report was compromised.

We

knew of the

compromise action

against

since he had told us about it and we

also knew that

targets.

, both married to Soviet citizens,

were

also gave incormation concerning individual

travelers to Russia,

who had

een recruited and individual case files

have been opened on them.

SEl

Pinall

Stil

DocId: 32199809

Page 5

---

