# docid-32307886

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10293-10244

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-1ST NR 2444

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/29/1968

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, COMMISSION, MEETING, FAMILIES,

ORGANIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307886

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Aot of 1992 (11 159

DATE: 11-14-2017

10/29/68

AIRTEL

7

62450N

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, NEW YORK (137-14279) (P)

NY 6436-C-TE

TECIP

• ReNYairtel to Bureau dated 10/21/68.

On 10/25/68, informant was contacted by SA DANIEL R.

KINNALY and advised as

follows:

In addition to other individuals who attended the

Appalachian meeting, informant stated that RAYMOND PATRIARCA

and JOHN

LA ROCCA, who is from Pittsburgh, also attended this

meeting. Informant did not believe these

individuals had been

discovered.

Informant advised he did not know who summoned the

meeting but it is his opinion it was called by the Commission.

In regard to the GAMBINO group in Baltimore, informant

advised the group numbers approximately fifty members.

Informant

advised he attended the wake, of FRANK CORBI's brother and at

that time he met about fifty

members in the Baltimore area who

belonged to this GAMBINO group. It was informant's recollection

that the

wake took place about

ten years ago.

Informant advised

that JOE FRANCO, a Capodecina in the GAMBINO

family of Cosa

Nostra and CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI, a soldier, attended this wake.

Informant advised that a LOUIDICIENA (ph.) was the

Capodecina in Baltimore before FRANK CORBI and that FRANK CORBI

took over as Capodecina after LOUIDICIENA stepped down.

Informant

did not knowwhether or not LOUIDICIENA is deceased.

Informant

also advised that CARMINE LOMBARDOZZI attended the wedding of ne

of the member's daughters shortly after the wake of CORBI's brother.

Informant related that FRANK CORBI, as a Capodecina in the GAMBINO

family, is directly responsible to CARLO GAMBINO and has been

-summoned in the past to New York City by GAMBINo.

Informant advised

the GAMBINO group in Baltimore is actively engaged in running the

"strip joints" in

that area.

3 BUREAU

1, NEW YORK

DRK: DJG

346

92-66054

NOT RECORDED

145 NOV: 2211968

-25

DocId: 32307886

Page 2

---

