# docid-32307207

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10347

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-6089-6

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HACKMANN, KENNETH F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/21/1962

14

APR, ASSOC, LABOR, RACK AND SUBV, GAMBLING, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE:: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

HH 45927

5

DocId: 32307207 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD/263 gReT.

-59)

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

PORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

SERVICEMEN

NEWARK, N. J.

DATE

12/28/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/24 - 12/14/62

REPORT MADE BY

KENNETH F. HACKMANN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

RS

REFERENCE

Report of SA KENNETH F. HACKMANN dated 10/31/62 at Newark.

-p-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU:

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

Two copies of a letterhead menorandum characterizing

the informants utilized in this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 12/10/62, PCI [

Jadvised that the

previously mentioned BERNIE

(LNU), who is an employee of

Runyon Sales Company, and a member of IBT, Local 575, 1s

SPEC CHAAGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92- G08p+6

OTHER 4

3. - Bureau (92-6089) (Eng9)

1 - USA, Newark

2 - Newark (92-1224)

CLICE

REP 35

..

DISSEMINATIÓN RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY...

1.

aag.

REQUEST RECD.

E FWD.

1-5-63

0=66

JAB

NOTATIO

1. at

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTiNG OFFICE

16-76324-1

ocTd: 32307207

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-1224

belleved to be BERNIE/HERSCHBERG, who resides at an unknow

Newark, Nbaddress. MILLER will attempt to develop additiona

specific information concerning this individual.

Newark idices, records of the Garden State

Credit Bureau, Clifton, as made available by AUDREY KLING,

and the records of the Newark, N. J. Police Department,

as made available by JOSEPH NELLEGAR to IC ANTHONY

PALMISANO, contain nothing identifiable with the above

mentioned BERNIE HERSCHBERG:

It is noted that following the meeting between

EDWARD PECORA and EUGENE CATENA, at CATENA's residence,

on 10/25/62, PECORA was observed to stop briefly at

Gloves Esso Station, 68 West South Orange Avenue, South

orange, N. J•.

where he is believed to have made a

telephone. call from a pay station located there, which has

telephone number SO 2-9648.

This call was probably made

around 10:20 AM.

•INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NK T-1

NY 2305-C

NK T-2

NK 2319-C*

OTHER 4

NK T-

PCI

NK. T-

PCI

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307207 Page. 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-1224

LEADS

NEWARK

with PCIsL

AT NEWARE MEN JERSEY: as other est bataet

as well as other established

sources to develop additional pertinent information.

OTHER 4

Agent, NJ Bell Telephone Co.,

toll check on telephone number SO 2-9648 for the pertinent

period of 10/25/62.

C*

COVER PAGE

HW

45927

DocId: 32307207

Page

4

---

