# docid-32340823

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10221-10216

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3267-741

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DODGE, HAROLD F.

•TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/31/1967

52

JRO, ASSOC, MED, TRA, ARRESTED, BOND, B/F INT, RES,

CRIMININAL ACT, BANK ACCOUNTS, TOLL CALLS LIST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2, INDEX PAGES a-e

v9.1

HW 45945 DocId: 32340823 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

+ ..

LA 92-113

NE

Referenced airtel from Las Vegas to Los Angeles dated

12/3/66, set forth that on 12/2/56, IV 203-C-TE advised SA CARL F.

712/2/66,5

FREEMAN

that approximately nine months ago, informant hao

argument with CARLASPARACINO in Las Vegas'over a business transaction

SPARACINO and infofmant subsequently became friendly again, at

which time SPARACINO stated that following their agrument,

SPARACINO

had attempted to contact JOHN ROSELLI to report the actions of

informant.

The source was questioned as to what ROSELLI could do

in a

matter like this and informant stated that had SPARACINO been

able

to contact ROSELLI, informant would have had to answer to

ROSELLI concerning any complaints that SPARACINO had against him.

Informant was questioned

as to why ROSELLI would have

control of him or

any other Italians in Las Vegas and he stated

that ROSELLI was a

very powerful man in the Las Vegas area and

handled a number of disputes between Italians in Las Vegas.

Informant also pointed out that had SPARACINO known or

reported him to FRANK DESIMONE of Los Angeles, then the informant

would have had to go before DESIMONE to straighten out the argument.

Informant was very reluctant to actually state that

subject's

position was connected with the LCN but implied ROSELLI

was an arbitrator for problems arising between two Italians.

This information should be carefully paraphrased if

used in a

report since it could be directly connected with the

informant if used in a report which is disseminated.

on 8/17/66, NY 5542-C-TE (an LCN member source) adviset

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and CHARLES G. DONNELLY that he recently visited

the Flamingo Hotel, Las Vegas,

Nevada. While in the Candlelight

'Room at this hotel he observed

a very dapper and distinguished

looking gentleman, who made a definite impression on the informant.

He made inquiries

and determined he was JOHN ROSELLI from Los

Angeles.

It is to be noted at this time he did not know ROSELLI

to be a member of LCN.

C

COVER PAGE

HW

45945 DocId: 32340823 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 92-113

Subsequently, informant visited Miami and while in

conversation with JOHN BIELE,

aka Johnny Foto (GAMBLING LCN

"family" member) mentioned he had seen ROSELLI in the Flamingo

Hotel. FOTO claimed

• he and ROSELLI were very good friends.

Further, that ROSELLI was very close to FRANK COSTELLO (GENOVESE

CN "camily" member). In

addition, he was told ROSELLI either

has the concession for entertainment or a gift concession in the

Flamingo Hotel.

At this time FOTO stated ROSELLI is a

"friend

of ours"

Formerly ROSELLI was with FRANK COSTELLO, but now is

with VITO GENOVESE. He also stated ROSELLI had the

apartment in

back of the Desert Inn and is apparently very wealthy.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT IF ANY OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION

FURNISHED BY NY 5542-C-TE IS USED IN A REPORT OR DISSEMINATED

IN ANY MANNER, IT SHOULD BE CAREFULLY PARAPHRASED INASMUCH AS

THE IDENTITY OF THE INFORMANT COULD EASILY

BE ASCERTAINED

With regard to the statement that ROSELLI has either a

concession for entertainment or the gift concession at the Flamingo

Hotel, it is noted

that the Los Angeles Office has no information

to substantiate this. It is recalled, however, that in 195%, when

the Tropicana Hotel was being built, ROSELLI purchased the gift

concession at that hotel for $5,000

which he sold back

• to the hotel

within a short period of time for $150,000.

On 10/14/66, LA 4448-C-TE advised that he had recently

received a telephone call irom KAREN FLYNN, an acquaintance of his

whom he had not seen for several years but

who he had recalled had

dated JOHN MIRA six or seven years ago. MIRA's father owns the

Batavia, New York Race Track.

It is recalled that KAREN FLYNN has

been previously identified in this investigation as a girl friend

OÍ JOHN ROSELLI.

KAREN FLYNN told LA 4448-C-TE that several years ago

she loaned MIRA $1,000 which he never repaid.

She requested

informant to contact MIRA and attempt to obtain this money,

Informant telephonically contacted MIRA who acknowledged

that FLYNN had loaned him some money but he recalled that he had

repaid some of it and owed her not more than half the amount of

$1,000.

- D

COVER PAGE

HW

45945 DocId:32340823 Page 3

---

## Page 4

LA 92-113

Reference is made to information appearing on page 13

of the body of this report relative to the meeting between ROSELLI

and LEVINSON at the Horseshoe Club on the evening of 11/30/66.

IVL IC-TE advised that when BENNY BINION joined

the group,

ROSELLI requested BINION to telephonically cóntact LEVINSON to

join

the group, which LEVINSON immediately did.

INFORMANTS

OTHER 4

LA T-I

LA T-2

LA T-3

LA T-4

LA T-5

LA I-6

LA T-7

LA 4367-C-TE

LA 4845 PC

LA 4444-0

CSLA 4757

LA 4444-0

PCI, LA-

Former PCI

Beverly Rodeo Hotel

LA I-8

LA T-9

LA T-10

LA T-11

LA T-12

PCI, LA

LA T-13

LA 4615-C-TE

LA 4129-0

Not used

It. M. B. PHILLIPS

Intelligence Division

LAPD

PCI

- F

COVER PAGE

HW

45945 DocId:32340823 Page 4

---

## Page 5

LA 92-113

LA T-14

LA T-15

LA I-16

LA T-17

LA T-18

LA T-19

CSLA 4316-0

IV 223-C-TE

IV 287-C

IV 10-C

OTHER 4

PCI, LA

IV 203-C-TE

LEADS

LAS VEGAS

AT LAS VEGAS, I

NEVADA. Will continue to conduct

investigation concerning ROSELLI's activities in Las Vegas.

LOS ANGELES

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. Will conduct continuing

investigation

concerning ROSELLT's activities.

G*

COVER

PAGE

HW

45945 DocId: 32340823

Page 5

---

