# docid-32307429

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10292-10132

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-2148-9

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/08/1976

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS:

~ FS, SANJUR, AMADO, TRA, PANAMANIAN COUP, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32307429

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

CLAGAI

(CAAG-CD; ISi, G6S; CIA; STATE

54850/64

11/16/70

393/84

-USA

FBI

Date:

NOY 8

1976

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Precedence)

7/96

'О :

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-223)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-23366) (RUC)

LIHM

SUBUBCIC POSSIBLE COUP BY

PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD:

....

NEUTRALITY MATTERS - PANAMA

ASSIFIED

00: LA

AXGCST INERE SHOWN

NONSAWISE

Re Los Angeles airtel and enclosed LHM, both!

dated 10/5/76,

San Francisco letter to the Bureau,

9/15/76

Bureau let to

Miami, 8/4/76

enclosed LHM, both

dated 7/8/76.

and Los Angeles airtel and

Enclosed for the Bureau are nine copies, for Los

Angeles two copies, and for San Francisco one information

copy, of an IHM dated and captioned as above.

MM T-1 is MM 4138-S. MM T-2 is CSMM 1062-S.

The following are the sources who were unable to

furnish any information regarding a Panamanian coup attempt

by Panamanian exiles or by Panamanian exiles cooperating

with Cuban exiles:

2-2148-9

2 Bureau (Enc.

9) (RM)

2-Los Angeles (109-93)

REC 6N- DE-A1 F0G/

SANG 2)

2-2148=9

1-Miami

FEG/kr

(6)

Bied buS le l

 NOV 11 1976

7/29/90

Per

in Charge =-

NH 54462

ПЕС + 384

DocId: 32307429

Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

MM 105-23366

Source

Date contacted

MM 3240-S

8/12/76

CSMM 1208-S

8/13/76

CSMM 1366=S

8/17/76

MM 1115-5*0

8/23/76

MM 6138

8/26/76

9/2/76

MM 1337-S

9/3/76

The identity of ARTURO CARABALLO, JR., is known

to the Bureau.

MM 4138-S (MM T-1) indicated on 9/11/76, that

he is unwilling to testify regarding the information he

furnished in enclosed LHM.

He noted that testimony by

him in this matter would be destructive of relationships

within his immediate family.

Referenced San Francisco and Los Angeles communications

indicate that AMADO SANJUR and Panamanian exiles have

virtually discontinued Panamanian coup attempts.

Miami is conducting no further investigation in

this matter at this time unless requested to do so by

office of origin or Bureau.

LEAD

SAN ERANCISCO - INFO

A copy of enclosed IHM is being furnished San

Francisco for inclusion in that office's AMADO SANJUR file.

- 2-

HY 54462 DocId: 32307429 Page 3

---

## Page 4

RE: POSSIBLE COUP BY

PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD

It was alleged that he was in Panama at the time to

make prearranged collections of funds for a coup attempt

by AMADO SANJUR.

RODRIGUEZ said that he has been unable to

contact AMADO SANJUR since his return to the United

States from confinement in Panama.

SANJUR has failed

to return several calls by RODRIGUEZ to his residence

in California.

RODRIGUEZ is puzzled by this because

he did not cooperate with the Panamanian G-2 concerning

SANJUR, despite being tortured. At any rate, he

continued, he knows of no current plans by SANJUR to

overthrow

the Panamanian Government and did not even

know that SANJUR has visited the Miami area

in mana ten the nte

• several

times this summer.

Additionally, he has not heard

that Cuban exiles are cooperating with Panamanian

exiles to overthrow the Panamanian Government.

He

said it is unlikely that cuban exiles would participate

in such plans and even more unlikely that Cuban exiles

would financially support such plans.

On August 31, 1976, MM T-2 advised that AMADO

SANJUR, exiled PNG Colonel, had been in the Miami

area the preceding week, as a friend of the source was

visiting Miami from Panama at that time and spoke

telephonically with SANJUR.

The friend had been staying

at the Shelborne Hotel, Miami Beach, and encountered

there a bellboy. who is the brother or cousin of SANJUR

and who furnished the visitor a local telephone number

for SANJUR.

Source recalled that he saw SANJUR at the Miami

Beach boxing match in June of this year involving ROBERTO

DURAN, World lightweight champion from Panama. He did

not speak with SANJUR.

-8 -

NW 54462 DooId: 32307429 Page 4

---

