# docid-32319264

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10368-10398

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-82

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BAUGH

TO: CLARKE

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/18/1993

7

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/01/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NEWS ARTICLE, ENV

v9.1

DooId: 32319264

Page

57

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE:

.11-14-2017

321

11/18/93

Mr.

C1

JFKARCA OF 1992

In my note of 11/15/93, I advised you that the House

Governmental Operations Committee (HGOC) was to hold a hearing

yesterday regarding the implementation of the JFK Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (the Act). Further, I indicated

that the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) was

the only Government entity scheduled to provide testimony.

The HGOC hearing was attended by representatives of the

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs (OPCA) and the JFK

Task Force. The hearing was chaired by Representative John

Conyers.

Representatives Alfred McCandless and Glenn English

were the only other members of the Committee present.

Representative Louis Stokes, who is not a member of the

Committee, was present at the hearing because of his interest in

the JFK legislation.

Dr. Trudy Huskamp Peterson, Acting Archivist of the

United States, testified first to describe NARA's response to the

Although her full written statement submitted for the

record generally discussed the releases of JFK documents made by

various Government entities, her oral testimony did not. Members

of the Committee did not ask her for information relating to the

responses of the FBI or any other Government entities.

Five other persons, all of whom have done research

regarding the assassination, testified after Dr. Petersón.

At

least three of these individuals expressed concerns regarding the

fact that the FBI had not yet released any JFK documents.

However, members of the Committee did not pursue the issue of the

FBI's response to the Act.

The hearing also produced testimony regarding the fact

that various Government entities other than the FBI, to include

Congress, still have many documents to be released pursuant to

the Act.

In addition, Chairman Conyers expressed concern that

the Presidentially appointed Review Board, which is to oversee

implementation of the Act, is not yet in place.

PUNCTENCE

Enclosures

1 - Mr. R. Bucknam

1

Mr.

Shapiro

•1 - Mr. J. Bucknam

1 - Mr. St. Dennis

1 -

Miss Gawley

1 - Ms. Siford/Mrs.

Leeper

62A-49-1829205082

3 - Mr. Collingwood

(1 - Mr. Ginieres)

1

1

1

IRD Front Office

O'Connor

- Mr: Hartingh

- Mr. Harmon

TTO: lag

WALION CONTINES

GLASSISIA

DocId: 32319264 Page 2

---

