# docid-32404116

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10330-10131

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES - CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

TO

CHARLES A. BRIGGS

TITLE

BOB SKWIROT

MF: MEXICO CITY STATION HISTORY

DATE

09/25/1998

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS

JFK ASSASSINATION

CRYPTONYMS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/06/03

COMMENTS :

JFK-M-15 : F5 : 2000.02.08.07:59:12:873035

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10131

HH 53217

DocId: 32404116

Page 1

---

## Page 2

New MemolStandard

.

:

CL BY: 031682-1998-00

CL REASON: Section 1.5 €

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: COL 1-82

25 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Bob Skwirot

FROM:

Charles A. Briggs-Y-

OFFICE:

DCI/CSI/HRG

SUBJECT:

Mexico City Station History

REFERENCE:

The Mexico City Station History contains at least 99 separate cryptonyms, for the most part

concerning projects, but in some cases, individuals, covering the period 1947 to June 1969. In

every case, there is identifying information included with the crypt, ranging from a brief

parenthetical phrase to several pages of detail. Since the information far exceeds that thought

relevant to the JFK story, both in time and substance, an approach designed to provide a maximum.

amount of information and guidance for historians concerned with the JFK assassination, with a

minimum of gratuitously useable leads for curious or hostile FOIA requestors concerning CIA

activities generally, was chosen and is reflected in the version the Board has for consideration.

The norm in handling cryptonyms when the entire crypt is not released is to protect the

digraph - the location indicator. What l've done here, to avoid unraveling, in effect, the whole

history of Station activity for subsequent curiousity seekers, is to reverse the process, releasing the

digraph and protecting the root - specifically because the text identifies each crypt. The Board is

familiar with the decision to release almost all Ll-crypts in full - while protecting identifying

information. The major relevant Ll projects (LIENVOY, LITEMPO, LICALLA, etc.) have had both the

full cryptonym and most of the details released.

Station and Operation Directorate division histories are among the most sensitive documents

in the Agency. They are very tightly controlled within the area divisions - they are not available to

cleared employees in other directorates or, traditionally, outside of the division within the Operations

Directorate. Thus concern about the release of the Mexico City History pages that, viewed through

the widest of lenses, do not appear to be relevant to the JFK story,is very great.

CC:

New MemolStandard

1N 33211 Doc1d:32404116 Page 2

---

