# docid-32310581

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10305-10030

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3960-22, 23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HINDES, EUGENE J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/20/1962

22

SGR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/11/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

NW 45799

6

DocId: 32310581 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The BUDDY (LNU),

mentioned in the details of this

report, may be, identical

previously mentioned as a lieutenant and strong arm man of

with BUDDYXCAPPOLLA, who has been polical:

the subject.

The investigative period of this report is in

excess of 60 days since the investigation conducted by the

Miami Division was not received by the NY Division until

2/6/62.

The Investigation set forth to be conducted at

Greenwood Lake, NY, will be held in abeyance until the

completion of

a survey which has been authorized by the

Bureau.

and EUGENE

J. HINDES,

at which time he was unable to furnish

any

additional information concerning the subject.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

NY 1894-PC

NY T-2

MM 509-0*

NY T-3

MY 204-c

" NY T-4

Ni 9112-0

contacting Agent

SA WARREN J. DONOVAN

or ye trait

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA ARTHUR H. HAMILTON

COVER PAGE

B

NW 45799 DocId: 32310581 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS cont.

Identity of Source

NY T-5

PCF ABE GOLDSTEIN

contacting Agent

SA FATRICK J COLLINS, JI.

and : A EUGENE

J. HINDES.

NY T-6

Mr. RAYMOND SKINNER,

Postmaster, Green-

wood Lake, NY.A

•(Due to position)

SA,

_THEODORE, F

EUGENE J.

BRUHL and

N7 TE7

Father FRANCIS MASSARÖNE

SA PATRICK J.MCOLLINS,

and SA EUGENE J. HINDES

Jr.

Curate, Old St. Patrick's

Church, 235 Mulberry St.,

-NY, NY. (By request)

Careful consideration has been afforded to all

concealed sources and T symbols were used only in those

instances where the identity of the source must be concealed.

LEADS :

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

Will recontact PCI ABE GOLDSTEIN for any

additional Information he has been able to ascertain con-

cerning the subject.

2.

Will identify the registrants to license

numbers FF 3004, FF 3928 and 6D4706.

3. Will maintain contact with NY 204-C for any

infonmation

concerning the telephone being operated for the

subject.

COVER PAGE

C

NW 45799

Docid: 32310581

Page

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

LEADS cont.

4.

will determine the subscribers to the

telephones called from the subject's residence at 215

Mott: St., NY, NY (WO 6-1559).

5.

* Will recontact PCI

for any

information regarding the subject.

At Greenwood Lake, New York

1: Will contact ROBERT RYERSON, Plumber, to

determine if he performed any services at

the subject's

residence, which were charged to the Little Copa Club. d

2. Will contact Mrs. ELIZABETH LYNCH, Attorney,

for any information the maybe able to furnish concerning

the contract prepared for VINCENT CONTI and-an unknown

individual.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

D*

NW 45799

DocId: 32310581

Page 4

---

