# docid-32292968

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10210-10244

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-6054-3334

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, SD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/26/1974

PAGES: 38

SUBJECTS :

LCN MEMBERS, ASSOC, CONSPR, CRIMINAL ACT, SGI,

SUBPOENA, FGJ CG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292968

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hote).

$ 75, 0 OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

"ESA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-91.8

UNITED STATES GL. ERNMENT

Memorandum

ATO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE:

9/26/74

FROM

SAC, SAN DIEGO (92-229)

SUBJECT

LA COSA NOSTRA (LCN)

CONSPIRACY

(00:

New York)

(P)

LEE MEANGARK BY

FOR REVIEW AT FBIHQ AND/OR DELIVERY

TO HSCA RE REQUEST DATED

(SEE BUFILE 62-117290))

Re San Diego letter to the Bureau dated 6/17/74.

BELOW INFORMATION SHOULD BE HANDLED IN A MOST

CIRCUMSPECT MANNER AND UNLESS SOURCE IS WELL CONCEALED

REPORTED ONLY ON THE ADMINISTRATIVE PAGES OF THE REPORT

IN WHICH IT IS USED.

SUCH INFORMATION FROM THIS INFORMANT

IS NOT TO BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE THE BUREAU AS IT MIGHT

COMPROMISE THERUNFORMANT AND PLACE HIM IN JEOPARDY.

соло!!

SD11064-

the following information was received from

TE regarding LCN members and hoodlum associates

Bureau (RM)

092-6054)

- 137-9187)

2

Boston (Info) (RM)

Chicago (RM) '

Cleveland (RM)

Denver (RM)

2

1

2

2

-

Detroit (RM)

Kansas City (Info) (RM)

Las Vegas (RM).

Los Angeles (RM)

Milwaukee (RM)

2

2

i.e

1

3

Miami (RM)

Newark (RM)

New Orleans

(Info) (RM)

New York (RM)

12 -

92-2300)

(1 - 137-13139)

2

Phoenix (RM)

1

-

2

Sacramento (Info) (RM)

2

St. Louis (RM)

8 MAR 2

r1975an Francisco (RM,

Lampa (RM,

San Diego

752 -

92-229)

137-1088

bk

UNELCO

EX-103

REC+4 22-6054-33341

RECORDED

OCT

2 1974

•S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-108

DocId: 32292968

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107

HoreT.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

Bapprox 1908

i Call f

whom he described as

According Y 66 years, 5'8", gray hair,

SO 1064C-TE Let With MEARN S

complexion, dark eyes. MARINO was

accompanied by his

Bapp ox

1939-

193)

dark hair.

, stocky

over 23 years in prison, including two years on Death

After learning of CAPITO's hoodlum connections,

MARINO denied extortion attempts and told the informant

nat he 1s a Irlend of HENse CohEN, who runs a grease

plant called "The Peterson Place

on 25th Street inCal

Los Angeles. MARINO claimed that through COHEN, he

attempted to get a job in the Grease Plant, epparkedasm."

owned, by CAPITO, and CAPITO thought it was a

MARINO's home telephone is (213) 333-0124.

MARINO admitted

contacting CAPITO, along with PALLADINO, but claimed the

whole thing was just a misunderstanding.

SICA gang and learned that PALLADINO and MARINO were

ant art evide it and ree don the salif

working with Hollywood Strip hoodlums LOUIS RUSH and MIKE

RISO,

Rizzatillo, and that they-were-attempting to

"musclery

CAPITO" and others.

CAPITO later called the informant, indicating

that MARINO, et al, were no longer putting the "muscle

on him.

The informant reported this to MOCERI, who told

him that his friend, DEL SANTER was bang prosecuted on some

cype of Conspiracy charge in Ohio, but that after it was

taken care of, they would make a trip to the West Coast

to see CAPITO and the informant.

4. MORRIS SHENKER

Informant advised on 7/22/74 he was contacted

by RICHARD HORTON, aka Levin, from Boulder, Colorado.

HORTON is a well known con man, in Colorado

and Southerr

California. HORTON, according

, to the informant, made a

great deal of money several years ago defrauding Colorado

banks and after serving a Federal prison term, settled in

Boulder, Colorado, where he owns a large apartment house.

HORTON told the informant about a brewery in Colorado available

for sale and wanted the informant to contact MORRIS, SHENKER

to purchase it' so HORTON could get a finder's fee.

- 11-

DocId: 32292968 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SD 92-229

the sheriff would not stand for it. HAWTHORNE said his

uncle warned him that security people at the track would

watch him more closely if he operated such a house. JOEY

HAWTHORNE told informant that his uncle was very active

in the Sheriff's successful campaign.

HAWTHORNE told the

informant that for the above reasons, he had decided against

setting up a house near the track for dice and card gambling.

On 8/11/74, HAWTHORNE contacted the informant and

wanted him to intercede on his behalf with one of San Diego's

Cole chen intomanc

major gamblers and bookmakers, JOHN SPATAFORE. HAWTHORNE Cale

told the informant that he had Tost $43,000 betting "head -

to head" with SPATAFORE at the Del Mar Race Track.

Because

of other losses booking major gamblers at the track, he

could not come up with the cash immediately, and SPATAFORE

fixed it so he could get no action until he paid off.

HAWTHORNE indicated his total losses to SPATAFORE amounted

to about $56,000, but that he had already paid off $9,000 /

in cash.

(Hidden cameras were

set up at the Del Mar Race

Track by the District Attorney's Office and during the last

week of the Del Mar season, HAWTHORNE and several other book~

makers were arrested and charged with felony bookmaking.)

5. San Diego LCN

member of ha Casa NostRa

Informant reported on

17/12/74 that LEOXbIA, anal y

ICN member and owner of the Southland Amusement Vending

countries in Europe beginning at the end of July. (This

information was furnished to the Legat, Rome for coverage

by the Italián police.)

LON CAPO SO 122

, San Diego.

Informant and

REGACE told ADAMO

inoperable cancer of the liver.

until his death.

- 36 -

92-6054-3334

DocId: 32292968 Page 4

---

