# docid-32304378

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10008

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2918-129

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FORSYTH, THOMAS G. III

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/24/1962

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

SMO, RES, ASSOC, TELCAL, VONHOENE, C. A., COOPER,

JACK B., LEFCOURT, SIDNEY, INTV, REL, GM, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32304378

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2.

3.

PG 92-228

Of DANIEL HANNA, currently incarcerated in Lewisburg Federal

Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pa.

Will report results of investigatins in other idivisions

concerning unauthorized long distance calls charged to the

telephone number at MANNARINO's resid ence and concerning

background information regarding individuals from New York

City who have had business negotiations with MANNARINO.

Will follow and report activities of MANNARINO and his

associates in accordance with Bureau instructions.

ADMINISTRATIVE

This report has been slightly delayed due to illness on the

part of the preparing Special Agent, and because of the

assignment of the preparing Special

Agent to work on the

intensified investigation captioned,

'CHARLES FREDERICK

TEEMER, aka., ET AL; ITAR - GAMBLING. "

During the period of this report, close liaison has been

maintained with Special Agents,

Intelligence Division, IRS,

Pittsburgh, who are conducting

investigation of subject.

Also, close liaison has been maintained with Departmental

Attorney JOHN J. MULLANEY, who has been assigned to Pittsburgh

to work on the MANNARINO cases and is currently preparing

for trials in the United States District CCourt, Pittsburgh,

against 17 MANNARINO associates who have been indicted for

violation of the Federal Wagering Tax Laws.

The source at the New York Telephone Company, New York, N. Y.,

who furnished information on 7/20/62 is EDWARD L. BRAVNE,

Agent, Legal Department, New. York Telephone Company.

INFORMANTS

The T-symbols utilized in this report will be the same,

where applicable, as those used in reports

back to, and

including, that of July, 1961:

PG T-2 is PG 612-C

PG I-40 is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Co., Pittsburgh, Pa. (protect per request).

B

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304378

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"-Released under the John F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Aut of 1992 (11 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG 92-228

NY I-1 is NY 3368-PC

NY T-2 is NY 3454-C-TE

C*-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32304378

Page 3

---

