# docid-32354487

## Page 1

Date: 01/14/05

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10095-10062

RECORD

SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

LATIN

AMERICA DIVISION/JFK TASK FORCE HOW RESEARCH WAS

DONE.

06/01/1977

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : CUBAN OPS

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

08/11/93

JFK35

F3: 1993.08.11.13:52:51:280014

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10095-10062

NW 53199 DocId:32354487

Page 1

---

## Page 2

APPROVED FOR HELEASE 1993

CLA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

June 1977

SUBJECT: Latin America Division/ JFK Task Force How

Research was Conducted

1. The LA Division Task Force to investigate records

in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy

was formally organized in mid-October 1970. Its purpose,:

basically, was to research all Agency operations conducted

against Cuba from 1 January 1960 to, 1 January 1965

(concentrating on the period up to 22 November 1963) for

any evidence that such operations might have provoked the

Government of Cuba to take executive action against

President Kennedy. Researchers were also alert to activities

seemingly directed against the U.S./CIA.

2. Reference to material for this research was obtained

from the LAD Registry, the Cuba Desk machine runs, and a

special comprehensive file listing prepared for this purpose

by ISS (Information Services Staff). It was originally

thought that material pertinent to the search would number

approximately 900 operational

folders, plus related 201

dossiers. It was later

determined, however, that a thorough

review should include additional operational and subjective.

files which brought the total to well over two thousand files.

In view of the date of the material, much of it, both operational

WW 53199 DocId:32354487. Page 2 Q/DAEneerme

---

## Page 3

- 2.

and subjective, has been

retired to. Archives at Warrenton,

Virginia. The remainder is held at Headquarters in

IP/Files or IP/Archives. All 201 dossiers are retained

at Headquarters. This material is casily retrievable

through the use of specific job numbers and file reference

numbers recorded and retained in the LAD/JFK Task Force

files (t00 numerous to cite herein.)

3. Following is a breakdown of the types and numbers

of files reviewed, criteria employed in the research, the

findings, and organization of the material:

a.

Types and Number of Files Reviewed:

1. Operational

1,729

2.

(60] with findings and

1,128 with no findings)

Subjective

547

(180 with findings and

361 with no findings)

3.

Cuba Policy Files

4. C/WHD Chrono Files (TFW Chronos)

5. Official 201 dossiers

101

37

(13-49)

100

plus

TOTAL

2,514

b. Criteria Used in the Research:

As a guide the research group followed some

33 Terms of Reference provided by the Deputy IG, which

were compiled on the basis of issues raised in Book v,

HN 53199 DooId:32354487 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECR

3

of the Senate Select Committee Final Report on the

Assassination. (Book V., and a 23 May 1967.

Memorandum for the Record by the Inspector General

on Plots to Assassinate Fidel Castro, were required

reading for the researchers.) In addition to the

Terms of Reference, the group remained alert to other

items of interest brought to its attention by the IG

staff, on an ad hoc basis. A name

trace was always

run, and/or 201 dossier, if available, reviewed, on

any individual allegedly involved in an assassination

plot against President Kennedy or Fidel Castro. This

task was made somewhat easier as the result of a

memorandum prepared by the Cuba Desk, in August 1975,

based on traces of the names in the Black Book that

Fidel Castro passed to George McGovern which dealt

with individuals allegedly involved in assassination

attempts against Castro.

c. Findings and Organization of the Findings:

Each researcher submitted a draft paper noting the

Subject of the folder (s) reviewed, a brief description of the

activity, and a copy of the document (s) (findings) which

contained information believed to be pertinent to the re-

view. Also included were Job numbers, Official File

numbers, inclusive dates öf material

researched, and

number of volumes reviewed. Beginning in January 1977, at

the request of the IG Staff, the researchers also began

noting FBI and/or other government agencies knowledge of

HH 53199 DooId:32354487 Page

---

## Page 5

VAUT

information. Separate, finished, memoranda were prepared,

on the basis of these data, including the heading Findings.

This heading lists the specific docunent number (s) and

other pertinent data, and a few lines providing the sist

of the document (s) for purpose of easy and quick

reference. These memoranda, with a copy of the document (5)

attached, are

filed in alphabetical order, by project and

subject, in hard-back green folders as part of the official

LAD/JFK Task Force files under the official classification

number 019-604-001 (Volumes XI through XX). Also included

in the records are two folders (Volumes IX and X) con-

taining 1,439 draft memoranda with negative findings.

4. Appended are the following:

a) Report (125 pages) entitled Chronology of

Findings, giving gist of the findings; in alphabetical

order under the project or subject heading; with Top

Secret UMBRA Annex (14 pages) :

b) List of Task Force participants and their

functions;

c) Outline of the complete LAD/JFK Task Force

files and description of their contents.

HH 53199 DocId:32351487 Page 5

---

