# docid-32330612

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

' 11/22/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90091-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-4587-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 07/21/1964

PAGES:

18

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

RUSSELL MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

Docid: 32330612

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaser

DALT

Lhe Joln F:

Kenedy Assassination Recorts ColTection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

2007251-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

•DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

7/21/64

REPORT MADE BY

SA IVAN D. LEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/1/64 73

7/13/64

saW

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS, aka.

AR

REFERENCE

Report of SA IVAN D. LEE, 5/20/64, Dallas

-P-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU:

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum

characterizing informants utilized in this report.

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

1. Will identify subscriber to telephone numbers

LU 2-3700 and HA 7-3800.

It is noted on 5/14/64, MATTHEWS

was in contact with E. C. JOHNSTON at LU 2-3700.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES GELOW

92-4587

=

Bureau

(92-4587) (Encr2

USA Fort Worth,

Texas

2

_ Chicago

2

- Dallas (92-213)

NO JUL 27 1964

REG- 16

DISSEMINATION RECORD

ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY:-

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. _-

HOW FWD.

&Y_:

T-Deft7/31/64

5 6дYf A 1964

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTIME

NOTATIO

to

pallas

7/31/64

0.g₴

CVD:

DocId: 32330612

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the TorT, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 92-213

2.

Will conduct credit and criminal and office

indices search to ascertain individual. contacted connected

with gambling or bookmaking.

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

Will continue to maintain contact with sources

and informants in an effort to cover the subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted the investigative period covers an

extnsive period of time, however, information is contained

in the details of this report that was received from an

auxiliary office after the last report was submitted by

the Dallas Division.

Since the submission of the last report, Agent

assigned this matter has been working on almost a full-time

basis covering expedite investigation for the Presidential

Commission in the case captioned LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka.

IS - C-R. :

Mrs. AVA HOWARD, Southwestern States Telephone

Company, Irving, Texas, made the

records available to SA

IVAN D. LEE ON

the date

indicated in this report.

Informants

DL T-1 is DL-185-C-TE.

DL T-2 is LV-54-C.

DL T-3

is RUSSELL HOWARD, Supervisor, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company; Fort Worth.

DL T-4 is RONALD MAPLES, Supervisor,

Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Fort Worth.

The above mentioned informants have furnished

reliable information in the past and careful consideration

has been given to their

• coverage by T symbols.

B*

Cover Page

20d1-17043

DocId: 32330612 Page 3

---

