# docid-32192375

## Page 1

Tote).

under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10257-10309

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE: CR 65-14825-B1-1677, 1679

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES: 13

SUBJECT: LHO, RP, ASSOC, TESUR, TELCAL LOG

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

10/27/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

INC TELCAL LOG

DocId: 32192375 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hate).

F1 297 0528-571

DATE 7741 2017

кріи)

SECRET

Time

Initial

IC

OG

7:45

AM

7:55?

ALI, INFORMATTON CONTAIN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIE Z20

THORE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

i, AM

8:23

AM,

IC

IC

IC

8/31198

CLASSIFIED BY SELS-

DECLASSIFY C:

In 1519 5. 1006

Log.

Activity Recorded

ALL INCORPION CONTAINE

HERETE LG UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

TORS SEON OSHERVISE.

523-94

Classified by 051em8 ud

Declassity on: BADE JEA

John A. Yatteau

1

B

B 50635-805

schwartz

Russian

Call from

AKOVLEV,

Moscow,

Mrs A. is unintelligible, for the most part. Conversation

appears to be personal. A. says he will leave on the 10th;

says to say Happy Birthday ahead of time to OKSANA. He asks

IP OKSANA sent the drawings. Mrs A. says yes. A says holuks

will be looking for them,

then. A. says to tell VIKTOR!

MIKHAILOVICH (lst & middle names) to phone Erevan & tells

them everything is in order. He asks if she will phone again

on the Ist. She says probably. A. asks her how the children

are. Fine. A. then greets his two daughters who say they

well.

John J. Schwartz (Russian)s(u)

John A. Yatteau

7635-16

Call from

LAZVO, Moscow, to Mr MASKIN, Mexico City,

tel

# 140008. M. tells her

that she should be sure to phone

him

the morning

"he" is to arrive. M. tells her he will not

dictate now; says he won't give them any more material until

the arrival

of MIKOYAN. He also says not to phone until

MIKOYAN arrives. M. then speaks to IGOR & repeats about

not

sending any more correspondence.I: gays OK. M. repeats that

they should phone him without fail the very morning of the

day

•that MIKOYAN arrives. OK.

John

J. Schwartz

7635-31315

(Russian]y

John A. Yatteau

Call placed as coming from Mrs VISHNEVSKAYA, Moscow, to Mr.

RASSTROPOVICH, Hotel GoV. Clinton, NY tel# PE 6-3400, X629.

Ro speaks to his wife. Personal conversation. Both say they

are fine. R. repeatedly tells her he misses

her very much.

He asks re children i she says they are fine. R. says to

call STEPANOV without fail & tell him that he should do

(u)|

something about a pianist as SASHA does not want to remain

here; also she should tell STEPANOV that he does not yet

know If they will gọ to Mexico; says HUROK will let him

know about this. R. asks her when War. & Peace will open.

She says in December. He says he gave a concert in NY yester

day; says he hasn't seen the reviews but that they received

7 curtain calls, so everything must be OK. R. tells wife to

phone him again at same hotel on Dee 17th; says he'll be in

Los Angeles on 24th-26th then in san Francisco & to write.

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

jagger

SEARCHED.......

BEACHER UNEM

SECREL

P NOV 161959

FBI - NEW YORK

(65-14825-B1-16775

LADI

DocId: 32192375 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under

the

John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Mate) .

DATIN

-14-2017

FD-297 (1528-57)

SECRET

Time

9:04

Initial

AM

IC

OG

IC

Activity Recorded

CANY

John J. Schwartz

John A. Yatteau

B 7635-42,44; B 7671-11

Ca1l to i MA

BAROVSKY, NYC,

tel # su 7-5800, ext 104, from

Mr SATUKHOV, Moscow. S. asks B.

if he received something

(not clear.

Bosays no; asks if was sent to New York. S.

yes, c/o STRELNIKOV. S. asks if B. received his visas

Bo says no; says he gave his passport to Park Avenue

(soviet Delegation) but has not heard anything yet. S.

says

for B. to be in Mexico on the 17th as MIKOYAN will arrive/u

on the 20th. B. says he doesn't know if he can make

it that soon but will try;

says that everything depends on

his getting the visas - a Mexican visa & a return US visa.

He ppoints out that today & tomorrow are not work days for

the State Department. S. says that B. will probably not have

any trouble on this. B. then speaks to his wife & son -

personal conversation. B. asks his son, KOLYA, what he would

like for B. to bring back for him. KOLYA says he does not

9:24

AM

IC

John J. Schwartz

(Russian"

John A. Yatteau

B 7729-315

Call to Mr.

TUGAR INOV, Glen Cove, NY, tel # ORiole 6-6115,

from/Mrs TUGARINOVA, his mother, in Moscow. Personal conver

sation. Both say they are well. I. says he will leave by

ship on December l0th possibly; says

that he may go back by

plane & leave sooner, but in any case he will let her know

via the usual channels. Mrs. T. thanks him for the gift he

sent her. T. asks her to phone taxYAKOVLEVE, to MOROZOVA

& tells them their husbands are all well. Hell

says to give everyone his regards. He asks how ANDRUSHA

(dim. of ANDREI) • She says he is well. I. then greets

ANDRUSEA briefly.

NY 1519 S:

Log.

Page

Day SAI... Date77-7l1-59 C

Employee's Name

SECREU

Date Stamp

SEARCHED..

SERIALIZED

INDEXED.

& NOY

..FILEU.

1i959

-EAT - NEW YORK

DocId: 32192375 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

1/2015 Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Ol 1992 (11 USE ZI0T M

IC

Time

11:33

Initial

AM

OG

Activity Recorded

ENCO

John J. Schwartz

B 9134-3

Mr. WRIGHT TO PAUL O'NEIL, at U.S. Embassy in Moscow (9190 at

Sovetskaya Hotel Rm 423) sald that they are

going to press

with the Artist List

and he wanted to know if he (PON) had

any new's for him. PO'N seld that there 1s no agreement to

date on that matter.Mr.W wanted to know If POIN thought 1t

a good idea ifgome one

from Columbia came to Moscow at this

tIme. PO'N said that he could not tell w what do do on a

matter such as this, and he would have to make up his own

mind. They mentioned

'the Red Army Chorus Band, Leningrad Phil

harmonic, Shaw choral. Mr.W asked If GEORGE LONDON was going to!

be there. PON said that no individuals have been named yet.

wanted to know how long PO'N will be there and was

that he will be there another week. Mr.W said that he re-

alizes that POIN is in the middle of difficult negotiations

and it seems like nothing is coming through. He thought that

it would be a good idea if some one from Columbla came over

namely himself(Mr.w). Po'N

said that once it has been deter-

mined what 1s going in then someone from Columbia can come

over to see what they can work out. He said that they

are

go

ing to meet on this matter on Monday and Tuesday so if he

(Mr.W) is planning a trip he had better hurry.

L00151054/(5

3

Dafat. am Date 21-14-59

Employee's Name

JJS

JJS.

Date Stamp

SEARCHED.....

SERIALIZER

•INDEXED....

..FILED

CL NOV

11950

SHE TOT AG

DocId: 32192375 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under

John" F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107

#14-2017

SECRET

Time

6:58

Initial

IC

OG

PM

OG

6:27

PM

OG

10:21

PM

OG

Activity Recorded

Thomas 5. McGuire B9134-18 $

MISS WATSER, NY to

MR. LESITE BRADY, D20000, American

Embassy,

MoscoW.

Unable

to locate party, WAISER told US

op.

to

aancell now, will try bAM in the morning.

Thomas J.

MeGure (69134-8]5

MRS MICKMAN, Phidade phia,

Pa. to MR. SHLOMO SCHVARTZMAN

orgeev,

M.C.C.P.T. Opreele Yr M. Gop #6 now w. #19 Weapuzeua

W.N..

(Placed)

Thomas J. MeGulro (B9134-447(51

MR. BIFFLE, Fort Worth, Texas to MR. LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

(Placed)

Fade 519 3

Day SAT EDGe 11/114/591

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

SEARCHED....

SERIALISED.

IJAM

SECREL

INDEXED........

..FILED.

KAR-

DocId: 32192375 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released

under

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 /

• L

14-2017

(V)

Af h

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

7830

AM

R 8889-26

LATVIAN

Translated by Mirca Evans

((u)

Elsa (phon) in America inquires how Ilma (or Irma?) is doing. She

also

wants to find out about Uncle Vilis and Zigrida.

They discuss letters, packages, parents! death, respective husbands

places where they live, children, etc.

They have difficulty understanding each other and promise to write

soon.

(Latrian Woman's name 18 Tina (ors Ima 2) opa. (V)

ATE, INTOSUAZION CONTALIZA

HERRIN IS INCASETE LED EXCEP?

THERE SHONG OINERAISE.

8/31/98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-Seslnda

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

(JFK)

Sra(539-5%.

Day..

Sat.

... Date 11/14/59

Employee's Name

(65-14825-B7(6)

Date Stamp

JJH: CS

# ECRET

DocId: 32192375 Page 6

---

## Page 7

O Released

under

Note 29? (1-2997

the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

-14-2017

Time

8:37

11:01

10:?1

17м)

7:00

7:03

CU!

SECRET

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

AM

AM

AM

AM

AM

OG

B.N.

H10190-6

YIDDISH KE

Maurice'

onberg,

, Callf. to Mrs. Dora

Vaineberg,

Moscow

'% "arry Arry'

Rereulok

Beverly Hillsraineberg, Vishnlakovsky

#23 Apt. 4.

Conversation believed to be in

Yiddish.

B.N.

Lanoue

89203-12

Shoer,

Moscow to

anyone at oR 9-3800, UV.

Business call

and price cuts.

in wish they discussed dellvery dates lok

B9187-36

Tanels

Mr. Ken

Bissle,

Fort Worth, Texas to ir. "ee Harvey Oswald,

Hotel Metropole, Moscow Te

• В 40200,

Ext. 233.

Very poor connection, call

cancelled.

IC

B.N

R10125-2

Mr.

Chulkov,

Moscow to Dispatcher, Air control, Airport Civi

Aviation,

Charleston, So. Car.

this

dat.e

Ca!l pleced and cancelles

IC

Janou

R10125-6

Mr.

chulkov,

Fla.

Te?.

Moscow to Air Control Center, Airport Miami

4-2333. Call placed and cancelled this date.

AIL INFORMAZTON CONTAINED*

UNREIN IS UNCLASSIFIAD PACEPY

MESSE SHONN OTHERNISE.

8/3198

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-S48/nde

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

(57K)

Glassified

Declasstly on: 945R(JAR)

Lor 519-560

]

" Day Mon.

Date 11/16/59

AM

Employee's Name

(S)

(65-14825-B1-1679

Date Stamp

SECRET

CHOV 10000

A GA YORK

2MB

DocId: 32192375 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released

under

Note)

DATE /0477A-2017

FD-297 12528-57) 1

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

8:13

AM

IC

P N.

Lanouo

natole A Bogusla

10125-38

R

16125-46X

Russian

Mrs

MIRENN IKOV

In Moscow to

KHRENNIKOV

in NY at Circle

7-8020,

Hotel Park Charton.

to leave form NY

KHRENNIKOV said that they expec

vla plane, on the 22nd.

TAKOVICH

and come a batten in test sie ind

rest

will 1 ave for home. Sald that they are very tired and

will not visit Canada. K. mentioned that MUNCH

and the Bos-

ton

orchestra pave a tremendous prtformance of his (KHREN-

WIKOV's) Fist symphony in Boston.

K. said that,

they will be

In shington on the l9th and 20th; back in MY for the perfr

mance by the Boston orchestra of his symphony on the 21st

and are to

and leave it for home on the 22nd. Mrs fi, said that everythi

is fine. Asked to advise KOBALEVSKY that everything at home

is fine. Asked that KHRENNIKOV bring some medication 1.o.

rotar (ph) if possible. K, will try to obtain same. He men-

tioned that he is the head ci

he delegation and hes

to work

very hard and has vory little time at his disposal.

Said that

the trip is of great interest. Asked to have THAISA NIKOLA-

EVNA (first and middle names)

reserve hotel rooms in Moscow

for

AMIROV

Mrs

and DANKEVICH who will be returning with him.

K. will do same.

8:57

AM

IC

Anatole A Boguslav-

Airted B+WED

B+WFO

Call placed from SATIKOV In Moscow to STRELNIKOV in NYC

at su 7-0410. SIRALNIKOV dictated material for Pravda, atten

Gave the title

tion NEPOMNIASCHI at the American sectioner the Carnegle

of the material as

Flag of Friendship

Hall"

• Described the Carnegie Hall as the largest concert

hall in NYC. Sald that the meeting honorong the 42nd Anniv-

ersary of the Soviet Revolution and the 26th Anniversary of

the resumption of Diplomatic relations between the USSR and

USA took place there, Said that Rev RICHARD MORFORD opened

the meeting by saying that they have no orchestra but will

perform the hymns of the USSR and the USA. Said that an un-

known singer sang the America the Beautiful and then follower

It up with singing of the USSR National hymn in russian.

Said that loud applause followed the singing. STRELVIKOV

sal

that the meeting was held under the auspices of the

National

Council of American Soviet Friendship.

S. sald that ROCKWELI

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

_INDEXED.

Day on amDate 11-16-59

BAL

SEARCHED..

....FILED

SERIALIZED.....

MSV 1 6 1959

-FRI - NEW KORK

SECRE

DocId: 32192375 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

DA TE

-14-2017

Time

Initial

IC

OG

LOONY 151 9. ...

3

• Daylon am Datell-16-59

Activity Recorded

KEMT

presided over the meeting. KENT spoke re: his recent

bisit to the USSR and meetings with many friends there.

K.

said that he was convinced that there is no fear of war

the UsaR; that there's no fear of need and unemploymental

said that the only freedom missing in the USSR is the fre-

edom of conducting propoganda for war and race hatred. K.

called for strenghtening of peace and friendship with the

USSR.

KENT

said that the l1fe in USA became hoppier sinco

KHRUSHCHEV's visit.

Said that the visit brought many hopes

to the humanity. STRELNIKOV sald that many Ukrainian young-

sters, grandchildren of Immigrants of 50 years ago, attended

the meeting and danced native dances in national

estival In

ship. S. said that "r CORLIS LAMONT then addressed the motix

LAMONT said that KHRUSHCHEV's visit opened a new era in the

International relations; that American Government finally ma;

de a first step to meet

the Soviet Union; that we arel,

a11

glad, concerning bettering of realtions with the USSR. L.

said that all recognize the tremendous accomplishments of the

USSR. STRELNIKOV said that LAMONT ment'ond words of ALLEN

DULLES to effect that the USSR will be ahead of the USA in

industrial production In near future. STRELNIKOV said that

WILLIAM KHANTON, a negro writer;

rofessor NORMAN WHITNEY;

B. FEDORIN representing the USSR Embassy also spoke. Sald

that

greetings from Dr Wm Du BoIS were road to the meeting.

Saldt hat the meeting was a great success. STRINIKOV slad

that he was told by BEN HARDY

, a joiner, that he came to the

meeting because he believes the sincerity of the Russians

when

they speak re: peace. Sald that he spoke to ELEANOR

FRANK, a store employee, who sald that she attended the me-

eting and bellevs that peace on earth will be secured 1f

our people will be friends"

"• STRELNIKOV sald that he spoke

to SHOSTAKOVICH who is on the USA now. Said that SHOSTAKO-

VICH

advised

that they see the wonderful results of KHRUSH -

CHEV's visit to the USA; that USSR has many more friends now;

that they

were met with great sincerity, warmth and hospi-

tality. S. said that he

spoke to LOGINOV, the head of the

youth delegation now In the USA, LOGINOV said that they are

in Soviet science and life in

net with warmth and hospitalltissR.I. saltbat KHRUSHCHEV

g great interest

made a great impression on he American youth and students

actually are in love with him.

Employee's Name

AAB

Date Stamp

SEARCHED...

... INDEXED

SERIALIZES

........FILED....

& NOV 11959

FBI - NEW YORK

DocId: 32192375 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released

under

A9D-207 01528-3

DДТЕ:X4-14-2017

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 -

SECRET

Time

Initial

IC

OG

9:40

AM

0G

Activity Recorded

said

S KHRUSEICHEV saId

that is and Mrs WILSON of NY who addressed a letter

That the truth in

Soviet propoganda

"washod our brains" "act was that the anti

ricans found the

• However when the Ame-

truth their friendship overflowed the

ficial barriers.

STRELNIKOV quoted from the

"Economist, arti

effect that It would be a suicide to try to solve thresiden

nomic and philosophical questions by war. Said that

JOHNSON of the Howard (ph) University,

in one of his public

speeches saidthat t he Sovelt people belleve in bright future

of the humanity. S. said that KENI In closing the meeting

"lag of friendshlo flew over Carnegie Hall tonit

Let it fly over every house in America, USSh and every house

In the Worla"

STRELNIKOV then spoke to VISHNEVSKY. V. gaid that VITALI

(f1rst name) is due in Mexico tomorrow.

knows that VIlALl 1s to go to Consulate re: visa today.

S, replied that fle

said that VIlAll is asleep now but will gue him VISHNEVSKY's

message. V. saidt hat VITALI is to see PASIUTIN (ph) in

Mexico re:

any questions he may have, s. sent regards to

everyone.

B.N.

R

"anoue

Anatole

A BOguSLAV

10190-53

B 9187-1

Russian

Call placed from CHELPANOV In Mexioo City, Mexico to SOKOLOV

In Moscow at B 8-5432. CHELPANOV gave SOKOLOV the telephone

numbers of the air control booth at Mexico City alrport as:

22 48 64. He also gave the phone of the manager of the air

port as 22 41 56 and the metereological service there as

22 48 64. CHELPANOV then gave SOKOLOV the forecast of the

weather as given to him by the airport service. SOKOLOV ad-

vised that the plane, carrying MIKOYAN, apparently, will

leave Moscow at 8:15am. Said that the plane will go possibly

Thor at have

via Miami and to Mexico, CHELPANOV advised

that

they will have the weather forecast 2 hours prior to the

plane's departure from Moscow. He suggested that SOKOLoV

call the Embassy In Mexico Olty rather than the airport. so

replied that they will call the Embassy. S. sald that they

will

contact Miami via radio for the forecast of conditiona

Phone humb to Me the gro tea be that Pa ront they

te they may contact them for weather. O. promised to do

S. will call again.

Employee's Name

•Dayton.an. Date 11-16-59

Date Stamp

SEARCHED..

.INDEXED..

SERIALIZER

...FILED...

a NOV Migra

FRI - NEW YOR

SECRET

DocId: 32192375 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under

Portre-297 (1-DATE:

John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

SECRET

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

10:11

10:41

20:47

AM

AM

AM

IC

IC

IC

B.N.

Lanoue

R

10125-42

natole

Boguslav

3 9187-2773

DUNIN (ph) in Moscow to

• Ambassador BAZYKIN at USSR Embassy

In Mexico City,

Mexico. Asked that BAZYKIN

contact the Mexi-

can Foreign Ministry

and ask that they authorize their Em-

in Moscow to issue visas for BASHKIRoV,

D.A. ; BEGRODNY

(Dh), IS i VARMAN S-Salate, A.V. and BORovix the corres -

pondent for

"OGONEK"

the above will leave with

MIKOYAN tomorrow. BAZYKIN asked whether his wife could take

plane as above. D. replied that

same is too late. B.

will contact

the Mexican Foreign Ministry.

B.N.

Anatole

B 9187-52

Jogusta

5 Russian

all placed from VOROBIEV In MoscoW to MASOKEVICH In MeXiCo

that, Mexioo at 15 23 OL: MASOKEVICH, preguma ly, advised

everything is ok re: booklets and pamphiets. said that

they sent same out, Saidthat they are also preparing a broch

re re: cosmic rocket. M. said that the magazine will be ready

about

me not sat

the 28th. Said that they would like to prepare a book-

let re: fair for use in other countride. VOROBIEV approved

sane. M. said that they have enough material. Asked that VO

ROBIEV arrange for some copies of the information bulletin

ot the Youth committee sent over via air nail for the fair.

will do so. M. mentioned that everything re: baggage 1s

1n

ordero

B.N. Lanoue

737-10

Mrs DOBRININ

Anatole

A Bogustav.

B 9203-1/5)

Russian SKUl

Moscow to DOBRININ in NYC at P1 1-1234

гор X 1510/5

Daylon smDate 11-16-55rd

daughter, presumably, is well now. D. spoke few words to ALE

NA re: health. Asked

that she write to ham often. Mrs D. sald

she will

Copenhagen on the goth. glane on the 29th and due in M

mentioned that ALEXANDRA MOROZOVI

left via plane yesterday for Moscow. Daid that he sent a let.

ter and something that

Mrs DOBRININ asked for.

Mrs D. said

that Mrs ARKADIEVA and SOBOLEVA are leaving tomorrow via

air and that she's sending letter with them. oK.

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

BEARCHED...

...INDEXED...

AAB

SERIALIZED.

..FILED.

• NOV 1S 1959

CP

FBI - NEW YORK

DocId: 32192375 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released

under

the John

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 7-

yote)

FD-297 1126-571

DATE A +21-2017

(И)

Time

11:38

IC

OG

Initial

AM

IC

Activity Recorded

AN. Lanowe

Anatole

_ Boguslav

9203-10

3 9203-44 15)

Call

placed from RIBNIKOV

Miscow to anyone at USSR Embass

Unman from

"VECHERNIA MOSKVA

man, davista that prov, BoGorRor (phi and other

spoke to Un

scientists are in USA now for the session of the Rocket 3o-

ciety. Said that they would llke to interview one of them

voa phone, taman at imbassy replied that they just have

that they are staying at Sheraton

lotel at X 101-106. Unman In Moscow said that they will cal:

tomorrow.

Employee's Name

Date Stamp

GEARCHED..

INDEXED.

SERIALIZED.

FII.ED..

A N071 6 1950

ERI - NEW YORK

DocId: 32192375 Page 12

---

## Page 13

sleasel

under

Totte-297 (1-PAT

Age John I, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act hI 1992 141 USC 2107 T

L

Time

6:21

6:24

Initial

PM

PM

IC

OG

OG

SECRET

Activity Recorded

($(4)

Chappell

B7832-2] (call placed on 11/3/59, (ECeI B7935-282(5]

sall placed by Mr. Stuka, Chicag

Republic 7-0281 to a nurse, Miss Grazyste Birute,

only hoppital in Joniskells, Lithuania.

The call was

cancelled.

Howard +

Chappell

B7832-2 (call placed on 11/15/59. reel R8242-23) /

call placed by Mr. Lukamov,

Moscow to Mr. Masukevich,

Mexico, telephone, 152304:

Call was cancelled.

----

(519-28

MON. PM

• Day

Date 1/16/59

Employee's Name

Holle

SECREL

Date Stamp

SEARCHED...

SERIALIZED

.INDEXED.......

....FILED.

BI - NEW YOR

FADE

DocId: 32192375 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released

under

the John F.

Note: 297 (PATE,;

Si(ep1)

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

SCOREN

Time

Initial

IC

OG

Activity Recorded

8:37

AM

BoN. Lanow(s)

(I iddish 4) (4)

Translated by H. Rabinowitz

Moshe (Maurive) Foonberg, in California to Dora Vaineberg in Russia

Moshe identifies himself as his nephew, the

son of Hersh Laib. Dora

says she will give him his mother's address. Her(mother's) brother and

sister live there also.

Moshe asks for his sister's name (married name):

Viaitsa Mulitisa Dzerzhinskava

, House #41, Filia Foonberg.

Dora says she is not well.

Hoshe asks her to write to him.

partially blind and will not write. She says the whole family is in

Vinitza.

Moshe wants to visit them. Dora tells him to go to Vinitza.

Boba will tell his mother to wbite to him.

letter. She doesn't know why mother doean't write to him.

He asks

Dora to write to her sistersFaiga and Tanya. She can't write. Moshe

says they all live in this city. They are all well.

Rusaian

Translated by Anatole Boguslav

Aunt Dora gave Moshe mother's address: Vinitsa, 41 Ulitza

Dzerzhinskogo, Filia Foonberg. Dora said that Moshe's sister is marriec

and resides in Vinitsa.

Said that Moshe's brothers are also in Vinitsa

Moshe said that he would like to come and visit them.

5/31198

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-5W/snck

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

AII INPORMATION CONTAINEN

HURRIN IS UNCLASSIFTED EXCEFE

AIRERE SHOWN DIHERAIS7.

) Employee's Name

(65 - 14825-BT. (S)

Date Stamp

JJH : VCM

SECRET

DocId: 32192375 Page 14

---

