# docid-32331673

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90099-10018

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 47-40845-16

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/05/1951

52

ANTHONY COLOSACCO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SION

1

DN

47-1476

EVISIE; a Los Angeles gambler who was arrested in Denver in July

of 1951 in connection with a race track swindle. He stated that as of

Auigust/15, 1951 NEVELIFE was still in Denver under bond awaiting

trial on the race track swindle and was living at Apartment 310,

Canelia House, I2th and Grant Streets, Denver, Colorado.

KLINE

stated that he was personally renting

this apartment and had lived

there for about two months in July of 1951 during which period he

and his, wife were separated. He stated that he was permitting

NEVEIEFF to reside in the apartment as a favor pending disposition

of the state charges against him.

KIT'E specifically denied. that he had any information

as to the identity of the unknown subject in this case.

CHRIS NENKURI, FBI Number 375651'

Confidential Informant Denver I-6, who has previously

furnished reliable infornation to this office, reported that on

July 11, 1951 he received a telephone call from JOHN PRIOlA, victim

in this case who reported that he had been contacted by two

unknown individuals on July 10, 1951 representing themselves as

United States Internal Revenue

FRIOLA stated that these men attempted to "shake him down"

for $2,500 in consideration of their covering up alleged income tax

irregularities on the part of FrIDIA.

Informant stated that PRIOLA

told hin that these individuals stated that they intended to contact

JOINIE WEST, TONY, COLOSACCO, and the SMAIDONE brothers as wall as

nunerous other gamblers in Denver and vicinity who were alleged

to have failed to properly report Federal Income. Tax returns.

Informant

stated FRIOLA reported that COLOSACCO had personally contacted him

on the morning of July 1l, 1951 and told him that he had been

"shaken down" by Internal Revenue Agents; that they had thrown hir

in jail, and had finally nade a deal with him to cover up his

income tax irregularities if COLOSACCO would pay them a sum of noney•

According to Informant PRIULA stated that COLOSACCO had

cormented that he would probably be better to pay off these agents

in order to save a lot of trouble.

26

-

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DN 47-1476

Informant reported that

after this conversation with PRICLA

he was contacted: by TONY COLOSACCO who- told him that he was. working

with DCIAN on a deal to "Shake-down" JOIN FRIOLA. He stated that

COLESACCO was at liberty on bond pending disposition of state

burglary charges against

him and was badly in need of money.

According

to Informant, COLOSACCO stated that he told JOHN PRIOLA that Internal

Revenue Agents were "Shaking down", a lot of gamblers around Denver

and it would probably be a good idea for PRIClA to pay off in order

to save trouble.

Informant stated that COLOSACCO admitted that he had been

the "Finger man" in connection with DOIAN contacting PRIOlA.

according

to Informant it was his understanding that another person had been

with DOLAN on July 10, 1951 when' he contacted FRIOLA but the identity

of this person was unknown to him.

Informant stated that on the night of July 19, 1951, he

was in front of the over Hotel in Denver talking to COLOSACCO.

He stated that CUINSACCO related that he had just left the FBI Office :

where he had been questioned about the DOLAN case and that he had

denied any participation with Dolal in the attempted "Shake-downl

Of JOHN PRIOL.

Informant stated that CUISACCO, explained that he had told

the FBI that he had personally been approached by Internal Revenue

Agents who had attempted to "Shake him down" and that he had heard

that numerous other gamblers were

to be contacted for the same

purpose by Internal Revenue Agents. COLOSACCO warned Informant that

in the event he was contacted by the FBI, he should tell the same

story.

Informant reported that on at least one occasion during the

month of August, 1951, he had observed JAmES HarRy lola at the dog

races

at the lile High Kennel Club north of Denver, Colorado.

stated that on that occasion DOLAN was accompanied by CHRIS MEKURI

who, according to Informant, resides at the Dover Hotel in Denver

and is known as a gambler, ex-convict and "Finger Man", in numerous

birglaries.

He stated that MERKURI is a long time friend and

associate of ANTHONY COLOSACCO.

T-ò further related that on the night of July 24, 1951,,

he was in 'front of the Dover Hotel in Lenver, Colorado talking to

-

27

-

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673

Page 3

---

## Page 4

DN 47-1476

CHRIS- MERKURI at which time MERKURI stated that TONY COLOSACCO

was in bad trouble on the DUIAN case and suggested that it would

be a good idea if someone would try to "fix" JOHN PRIOLA to

prevent lim from testifying against DOLAN and COLOSACCO.

Informant stated that MERKURI then suggested to him that he

go out and talk to JOHN PRIOlA and attempt to pay him $500 to prevent

hi from identifying DOIN or testifying against COLeSACCO.

Informant related that he declined to have anything to do

with such a scheme and stated that during the subsequent conversation

JERKURI never mentioned the identity of the unknown subject in the

• case.

(After this information was received, all witnesses and

victims in this case were immediately contacted and specifically

instructed that if anyone approach them concerning the case they

immediately report same to the Denver Office. Up to the present

tire there is no indication that any attempt has been made to

"pay off"' any witnesses or victims.)

I-6 has reported that ANTHONY CULOSACCO, in October, 1951,

has made the comment that the FBI appears to know everything about

COLOSACCO 'S activities

and has even been questioning DOMONICK GAUDIO

in Chicago, Illinois.

Informant described GAUDId as a former Denver

ganbler and ex-convict who now resides in Chicago, Illinois and

who

for many years has been a close friend ci CHRIS MERKURI and

ANTHONY COLOSACCO.

The following Identification Record under FBI Number

375631 dated September 7, 1938 was obtained through the Denver Folice

Department:

• CONIE IBUTCR OF

NAVE AND NUMBER

FINGERIRINTS

ARRESTED OR CHARGE

RECEIVED

DISPOSITION

Verkuri 3-17-31

• arson

FD,

Denver,

Colo.

Christ

alias C.K.

verkurt

1713552

-

28

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DN 47-1476

Confidential Informant Denver I-6 furnished the following

information concerning 'TEDDY' PRICE: He stated that he has been

personally acquainted with 'TEDDY" PRICE for over

ten years; that PRiCe

is a professional gambler and is well acquainted with the SWATDONES,

TONY COLOSACCO and numerous other gamblers in the Denver,

said that PRICE also frequently participated. in barbuit games at the

"Bug Dust" Poolroom in Louisville, Colorado, which game was

frequented also by TONY COLOSACCO. /He stated that during recent

weeks PRICE has frequented a barbuit game, at Wood

, Colorado and 1s

usually accompanied by one "Farmer" ROUTA, a brother of "Porky" ROUTA,

who is now

serving a life sentence at the Colorado State Penitentiary

as a habitual criminal.

Informant reported that he. doubts that PRICE is actually

involved in the DOLAN case but pointed out that PRICE is unpredictable

and unreliable and sometimes becomes violent when under the influence

of liquor.

Fór example, Informant pointed out that PRICE recently

borrowed approximately $1,100 from a gambler and during the first.

week in October when PRICE had not paid up as agreed, this gambler

went out to contact PRICE at the PRICE Plumbing Company on West

Colfax Avenue in Denver.

He stated that the gambler found TEDDY"

PRICE sitting in an automobile in front of the plumbing company and

apparently PRICE had been drinking•

Informant stated that when the

gambler requested PRICE to pay him the $1, 100 that PRICE jumped out

of the automobile and trained a .38 caliber revolver on the gambler

and threatened to kill him. Informant stated that the gambler

finally quieted PRICE down and no violence occured, and

some two or

three days later the same gambler contacted "TEDDY" PRICE'S brother,

"ICKE)" PRICE who paid the gambler the $1,100 and made a specific

request. that no more money be advanced to "TEDDY" PRICE. According

to the Informant "WICKEY"PRICE informed the ganbler that his brother

"TEDDY" PRICE was a

"wild man" when he is drinking and recalled that

a few weeks previously, TEDDY PRICE had appeared at"ICKEY" PRICE'S

house in a drunken condition, entered the living room where "MICKEY"

PRICE'S children were playing and fired several shots from a

revolver into the living room ceiling.

MTTTON PRICE was interviewed' at the Denver Office by Sa

KENNETH I RAUPACH and the reporting agent on October 16, 1951 at which

time he stated that he is commonly known as "MICKEY" PRICE and resides

32

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DN. 47-1476

instant case and at that time did not know DOIAN'S whereabouts.

I-8 reported by telephone un Uctober 24, 1951 that he had *

just seen

DOLAN on the street in Denver accompanied by JOSEPH RAYCIND

SET and RAYIND JAMES CONLEY and that DOIAN had told him that

they were in town to report for a hearing in state court on charges

0] operating a race, track swindle in Denver in July, 1951. le stated

that DolAN told him that he expected to be in town for several days

and would contact rim later.

I-8 stated that if he could obtain

any pertinent information concerning this case he will imnediately

report the same to the lenver Office.

On August 24, 1951, at the lile righ kennel club, north

of Denver, MICHAEL PrICia, who was a witness to the attempted sanale

Of JOIN FRICIA On JULY 10, 1951, informed the writer and SA FRED

C. KcGEARY that he had just seen an individual who resembled the

unknown subject in this case.

he pointed this person out to

Agents who identified him as ir. IEC TYOR, 1756 Grant Street, Denver,

Colorado.

TYiR was interviewed privately by SA FRED G. MinGBARY and

the reporting agent at the lile High Kennel Club and stated that he

was born way 6, 1897 at Passaic, New Jersey, and had resided in Denver

at 1756 Grant Street for many years. He stated that his brother,.

PRIL TYOR Operates the Colonial Motor Company at 4545

West Colfax

in Denver.

TIOR was subsequently observed by MICHAEL. PRIOLA and JOHN

PRIOle on the evening of August 24, 1951 at the Mile High Kennel

Club and they stated that they did not believe, after closer

observation, that he was identical with the unknown subject.

Mr. JAMES O'DONNELL, Chief of the lile High Kennel Club

Security Police, informed that he had been acquainted with TYR

for many years and had never heard of his being engaged in any

illegal activities.

Ori August 23; 1951 Nr. JOSEPH CROW, Manager, Sacks -- Lawlor

Company, Denver, Colurado, telephone nunber At 3422, informed Sa.

ARTHUR S. RIEDER that on the morning of August 23, 1951, a person

who identified himself as BILi F. CURE, Room 213 Dover Hotel, Denver,

Colorado, had contacted the Sacks- Lowlor Company and requested that

they prepare a badge for him with the following inscription thereon:

"BILL F. NOURE - Secret Service".

39

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673

Page 6

---

## Page 7

DN 47-1476

DOLAN, was:

UNKNOWN SUBJECT, wa., "Chief": ANTHONY COLOSACCO, wa;

FUGITIVE: IMPERSONATION, CONSPIRACY are identified as fOLLOWs:

C. S. RAY, Vice-Fresident, Mountain States Telephone

and Telegraph Company, Denver, Colorado, who furnished

information on a confidential basis to SA PAUL E. BUSt;

T-2: DR-108;

T-3: DR-100;

T-4: JOEY: GOODMAN, 340 North Oakhurst, Beverly Hills,

Califorria, who in lugust, 1951 was residing at the

iagonaut Hotel in Denver, Colorado.

GOODMAN furnigned

information to SA'S FRED G. McGEARY and PAUL E. BUSH

with the understanding that his name would not be divulged.

Fe stated that he is a professional garbler and has a

wide acquaintance with gamblers throughout the United

States;

T-5:

No. CARL NEHLAN, Assistant Manager, Brown Palace

Hotel, Denver, Colorado, who furnished information-to

SA PAUL E. BUSH with the understanding that his name

would not be divulged;

I-6:

was., 2329 South High Streat, Denver,

Colorado,

Potential Criminal Informant;

I-?: ABERI FINER, Plumber, Mountain Plumbing Company,

Denver, Colorado, who furnished information concerning

"TEDDY" PRICE with the understanding that his name would

not'be divulged as the source of this information;

I-8: PAUL AUGUSTUS KING, was., Room 1018 Cosmopolitan

Hotel, Denver, Colorado,

Potential Criminal Informant.

OTHER

4

EFERENCE:

Report of Sa PAUL E. BUSH dated August 13, 1951 at Denver;

Report of Sa JOHN F. BOYWIAN dated October 10, 1951

at Chicago;

Report. of SA WILLIAM G. MASHAW dated October 11, 1951 at

'San Diego, California.

-

48

NW 45756 DocId: 32331673 Page 7

---

