# docid-32989706

## Page 1

File #:

62-116464

Serial Scope:

215- EBF

HH 55314

DocId: 32989706 Page 1

---

## Page 2

62-176464-215

To The Attorney General

ent. "

12

LoD: 111 11/33/75

U.S.OHOUSK SELECT

COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENO

ACTIVITIES (HISC)

Res made to HSC let, 11/4/15, requesting

delivery of EBt files Le Micilda binnerian.

Enclosed for approval & forwarding to HSC is

orig of memorandum with enclosures which

constitutes this Bureau's responses to the

above request.

A copy of this being furnished

for your records.

1N 55314

Doc1d:32989706

Page

2

---

## Page 3

DOCUMENTS CONCERNING MATILDA ZIMMERMAN

(RETAIN COPIES)

HH 55311 DocId: 32989706

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SAC, Milwaukee (100-15422)

Director,

FBI

4/10/68

1 - Mr. B.A. Wells

MATILDA

SE - SHP

ZILEPMAN

Reurep 12/19/67 captioned, "Young Socialist

Alliance. "

Perep roports that you have mened an investication

on subjcet.

A report concerning her has not been reccivas at

the Burcau. Surep innediately along with your recommendation

as to shether she should be incluued in the security Index.

tele

/ NT-25

N.100-119333

ra 06-0-20079 ExTRA.

12 APR 11 1S58

MALLED 3

Aril u1S58

Telson

=PLUJEn

19ahr -

3 stap

Casper

"enrat

"eit

Gale

Rosen

Failscan

Tain! -

Trellas

Teit. Roon -

IT 55314 DoeId: 32989706

554PR 231965%

Page 4_57

---

## Page 5

50?72 Pet13-00

FEDER

REAU OF INVES

TON

eporting Offlee

MILWAUKEE

Office of Origin

MILWAUKEE

Tile of Cose

CHANGED

NATILE

J.

ZIZIERIAN, aka

Matilde Jane Zimmerman

Date

4/19/68

Investigative Period

4/16 - 17/68

Report node Dy

SA THOMAS L. LADDEN

Character of Case

SM - SWP

SUMMARY

Title marked changed to show correct spelling of subject's

first rome from ilatilda to ATILDE.

REFERENCE

Bureau letter to Milwaukee dated 4/10/68:

ENCLOSURES

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of

Typed 3y:

els

xinix

HE F. 5/03/26

MEIN FOR*I.

inte

Approved

Special Agent

In Charge

Coples made:

5-Bureau (Encis 2) ENCLOSURE

(Registered Mail)

3-Hilwaukee (100-15422)

114)

Do not wilte in spaces below

-447:

2 APR 22 1968

REC 3

Notallons:

AGENCY

RAGES; Sir Seir

ALSE

REQ. RECD

DATE FOR:Y.

5-1-C08

HOW FORM.

BY -

1222.

í!:

BanY

71068 ,70io

11-16-65

1N 55314

DooId: 32989706

Page 5

COVER PACE

IT SEC

---

## Page 6

MI. 200-15422

ADHINISTPATIVE

This report is classified confidential as it

contains information from MI T-3, a confidential

informant of continuing value, the unauthorizea

disclosure of whose identity may compromise his future

effectiveness.

LEADS

HILYAUKEE DIVISION

At ladison, Wisconsin

Will obtain photo of subject and furnish to

Los Angeles in order to identify MATILDE IroM Madison

who attended YSA meeting at los Angeles on 12/27/67.

Will disseminate to Secret Service if subject

approved for inclusion on Hilwaukee SI.

INFORMANTS

Identity

T-l is

I Sources

T-2 ista

HI T-3 is"

Location

Instant Report

MI 100-13223

NY 134-9382A-1056

informant

B*

• COVER PAGE

Ti 39511

---

## Page 7

-**

UN

ATES DEPARTMENT OF ICTICE

PAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

Copy tó:

Report of:

Dole:

Fleld Office File #:

Title:

SA THOMAS I. MADDEN

April 19; 1968

•BI•100-15422

MATILDE J. ZINMERMAN

Offices

Milwaukee

Bureau File A:

Choracter:

Synopsis:

•SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS. PARTY

MATILDE J, ZIMMERMAN, DOB 9/6/43, Student of

University of Wisconsin (UN), Madison, listed

as Secretary for the Young Socialist Alliance

(YSA), Madison. Subject attended Youth Day;

Montreal, Canada July, 1967 and the 22nd

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) National. Conven-

tion, New York City, 10/26-29/67. Other

activities set forth.

DE TAIIS:

BACKGROUND

"A. & Birth Data

KATILDE J. ZINERMAN was born September 6, 1943.

(Source o

December 19, 1967)

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification.

This doeument contains netther recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned lo

your agency; ll and lis contents are nor to be distributed outside your ageney.

IN 15311 DocId: 32989706 Page 7:

---

## Page 8

HI 100-15422

Education

MATILDE J. ZINERNAN in June, 1964 received

& Bachelor of Arts Degree, Magna Cum Laude, from

Radcliffe College, Cambridge, ilassachusetts,

SourCE.

February 6, 1968)

MATILDE J. ZIMMERMAN entered UW, Madison in

September,

1965 and is presently enrolled.

ZIMMERMAN

received a MA Degree from UW in 1967.

(Source

on December

19, 1967)

Credit and Arrest

No credit record could be located for MATILDE

ZIMMERIAN at Madison, Wisconsin.

(Source

не пубнитий

December 20,

11967)

No credit record could be located for MATILDE

J. ZIMMERMAN at Albany, New York.

(Source

on January 3, 1968)

No credit record could be located for MATILDE

J. ZIMMERMAN at Cambridge, Massachusetts.*

(Source

January 17,

Boston, Massachusetts on

1968)

No record could be located for MATILDE J.

ZINGERIAN at Madison Police Department.

Madison Police

Department on December 20,

1967)

IN 55314 • DocId: 32989706 Page

8

---

## Page 9

ö: n

101:

• MI 100-15422

No record could be located LOr MATILDE J

ZINNERMAN at the Dane County Sheriff's Office, Madison,

Wisconsin.

(Source

I, Dane County

Sheriff's Office on December 20, 1967) •

No record could be located for MATILDE J.

ZINERIAN at the UW, Madison.

(Source

, Protection

and Security Department, UW, on December 20,

1967)

No record could be located for MATILDE J.

ZIMMERMAN

at Albany, New York Police Department.

spasticant +957499545

(Source

Inchite

as Identification

Bureau,

Albany Police Department on January

3, 1968)

No record could be located for MATILDE I.

ZIMMERMAN

at Boston, Massachusetts.

04287971019

(Source

Massachusetts on

January

Boston,

1d,

1968)

Residence

MATILDE J: ZIMMERMAN resides at®

416 West Main

Street, Madison, Hiscousin.

(Source i

December 19,

1967)

Relatives

Parents of subject, VIRGIL B, and MATILDA,

reside Helderhill Road, Voorheesville, New York.

(Source MI T-I on January 3, 1968)

• 3

INW 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page

---

## Page 10

MI 100-15422

II. CONNECTIONS WITH THE

COMMUNIST PARTY AND/OR OTHER

BASIC REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

Socialist Yorkers Party -

Young Socialist Alliance

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN is listed as Secretary of the

Young Socialist Alliance (YSA). at the UW, Madison.

(Source MI I-2 On November 7, :

1967)

A characterization of the YSA is attached

in the appendix hereto.

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN attended the 22nd Socialist

Workers Party (SWP) National Convention, October 26 - 29,

1967 at the Hotel Empire, New York City.

(Source MIT-3 on November 3, 1967)

The SVP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

MATILDE ZIMMERIAN attended Youth Day, Montreal,

Canada in July, 1967.

(Source MI T-3 on Novenber 3, 1967)

III.. MISCELLANEOUS

MITILDE ZINMERIAN waS listed as a ward organizer

to-solicit signatures to place a referendum on the ballot

in Madison, Wisconsin "to express opposition to the War in

Vietnam which was being sponsored by the Committee to End

the War in Vietnam (CEVY) •

(Source the November 20, 1967 issue of "Crisis",

self-described newsletter of the CEWV)

reside

A characterization of the CEW is attached

in theappendix hereto.

Egiserin

(SOUICE

: HH 55314 DooId:32989706. Page

10

---

## Page 11

HI 100-15422

MATILDE ZINNERMAN stated over 20,000 American

boys have already died in the hopeless attempt to prop

up the THIEU-KY Government in Saigor®

She stated the

administration is ready to send thousands more to kill

and be killed in Vietnam and recommended a "Yes" vote

on April 2, 1968 for an immediate cease fire and with-

drawal of American troops.

daily newspaper)

=..:

".".

HY 55314,

DocId: 32989706 Page 11

---

## Page 12

CEMENTAL

Prises

YOUNG SOCIALISE ALLIANCE

The May, 1960, issue of the "Young Socialist" (YS),

page 1, column 3, disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960, a

This issue

stated that this organization was formed by the nationwide

supporter clubs of the publication IS.

The above issue, lage 6, set forth the Founding

Declaration of the YSA.

This deciaration stated that the YSA

recognizes the Socialist workers Party (SWP) &s the only existing

politicai

leadership or ciass

struggle principles, and that the

supporters

of the YS have come into basic political solidarity

with the SWP. on the principles of revolutionary sccialisu.

On March 10, 1967, a source advised that the YSA was

formed during 1957, by youth of various left socialist tendencies,

particularly

members and followers of the SiP. The source further

advised that the ISA has recently become more apen about

admitting that it is the youth group of the SWP ard that ar SWP

representative has publicly stated that the YSA is the SWe's

youth group.

The headquarters of the IS! are.located in Rooms

532-536, 41 jUnion Square West, Naw York City.

The Swp has, been designated pursuast to Executive

Order 10450.

+8:553-8-81

APPENDIX

6

NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Paye 12

---

## Page 13

CONTBENTAL

COMMITTEE TO END THE WAR IN VIETNAM

MADISON, WISCONS IN

A source on February 14, 1965 advised that a group

informally known as the Ad Hos Committee for Peace

in Vietnam

was registered as a student organization at the University of

Wisconsin (UN), Madison, Wisconsin,

on or about February 12, 1965

under the name of "Committee to End the War in Vietnam" (CEWV).

Its purposes were stated generally as campaigning to bring an

end to the war in Vietnam and it claimed to be a non-affiliated,

independent local organization.

On November 29, 1966, a second source advised that the

CEWV sponsored frequent protests directed against U.s. policy

in Vietnam during the

years 1965-1966.

Robin David became

chairman at the beginning of the 1966-1967 academic school year

and received some notoriety when he led the CEVV in disruptive

tactics during a speech by Senator Edward Kennedy at the UW,

Madison, on October 27, 1966.

The second source also advised on November 29, 1966

that the CEVV has no permanent headquarters and meets at various

locations on the UY campus,. Madison, Wisconsin.

A third source advised that Robin David was a

member of the New York local of the Socialist

Horkers Party (SWP) as of May 19, 1965.

A fourth source advised that Robin David was a

member of the Young Scoialist Alliance in

Madison, Wisconsin as of Januazy, 1967.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive

Order 10450.

A characterization of the Young Socialist Alliance

is attached.

ThE DOWNY

÷ :.

APPENDIX

7*=

HH 55314

DocId: 32989706 Page 13

---

## Page 14

FD-3=3 (H17•11-29-61)

UNIL'ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF SUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Malraulice, risconsiD

April 10. 1005

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

Title

Character

Reference

ONCERITS MISTER

at kidnaunice cated sid

captioned as giovee

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past..

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the proparty

of the FBI and 1s loaned to your agency; 1t and ita contents are not to be diatributed outside

your agency.

55311 Doc1ä:32989706- Päge-11

---

## Page 15

SAC, Milwaui:ee (100-15422)

5/1/68

• Director, FBI

(100-149333)

1 - ir. S.S. Czarnecki

MATILDE J. ZINDERMAN

SH - SHP

Reurep 4/19/83.

Referenced report is wholly inadequate.

It is noted reinrenced report contairs only ore

pertinent iten of subversive information which was developed

by your office last Novenber.

Immediate steps must be taken to further develop

subject's activities in the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA);

especially, in view of subject's position as Secretary of

the YSa Chaster in ladison, Wisconsin. Thereafter, submit

supplemental report.

You should also promptly obtain a complete physical

description of suuject and a suitable photograph for disserination.

(4)

NOTE:

Hilwaukee recommended subject for Security Index.

Subject is a graduate student at the University of Wisconsin

and is the Secretary of the YSA at the University.

has had instant case under investigation since at least

• Milwaukee

November, 1967, and only meager information concerning

subject's subversive activities has been developed.

MAILER S

MET 5+ 100-449333-3

REC 13

MAY 1 - 1968.

IO MAY 2 1968

COMM-F31

50R

•oach

ч..

nop

per

rod.

3. Room

dy -

MAiL. ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

нн 55314, 00044: 329092968 Page 15

---

## Page 16

123 0w00-31

FEDERAL DREAU OF INVE DIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

HILWAUKEE

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MILWAUKEE

DATE;

8/2/68

INVESTIGATIVE FERIOD

5/30 - 7/29/68

REPORT MADE BY

SA THOMAS L. MADDEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

HATILDE J. ZIMMERMAN, aKa

SM - STYP

TYPED BY

REFERENCES

Report of SA THOlAS I. MADDEN dated 4/19/68 /

at Milwaukee.

Milwaukee letter to Los Angeles dated 6/14/68.

ADMINISTRATIVE

For the information of Albany, subject is on the

Milwaukee Security Index.

REQ.

REC'D

DATE

FORW

HOW

FORW.

556

CONVIE AUTO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

APPROVED

COPIESMADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

5 • Bureau (100-449333)

1

(RM)

- Secret Service, Milwaukee

-

Albany (Ril)

• Los Angeles

(RM)

- Milwaukee (100-15422)

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

[YES INO

YES LINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

(RM)

159-447331-5 REC-32)

& AUG 5 1958

Agency

Request Recd.

Dare fwd.

How Fid.

* BY

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

SNAC

8/13/18

-

10/30/07.

59A0 13 999

MR 55311 DUCT:02989706 - Page- 16

•M!E

•U.Z GOVINNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 19875-273-577

---

## Page 17

MI .100-15422

INFORMANT'S

• Identity

MI T-I is

Location

CG 134-2454-459

: Instant report

" Source

Informants referred to in instant report are as follows:

contacted by SA GEORGE P. BAXTRUM, JR.

7/2/68

sifornont

*contacted by SA GEORGE P. BAXTRUM, JR.

7/8/68

Informant

on 7/8/68.

contacted by SA THOMAS R. MC MILLEN

LEADS

THE ALBANY DIVISION

At Voorheesville, New York

"Will through suitable pretext contact subject's

parents who live Route 1, Helderhill Road, in attempt to

determine subject's present whereabouts.

THE LOS ANGELES DIVISION

At Los Angeles, California

1) Will report results of investigation requested

in referenced letter.

COVER PAGE

HW 55311 DocId: 32989706 Page 17

---

## Page 18

HI 100-15422

Hill through informants and sources attempt

to learn if the subject is now living with WALTER LIpPlANN.

THE MILWAUKEE DIVISION

At Madison, Wisconsin

Will through sources at University of Wisconsin (UW)

Graduate School attempt to learn if subject is returning tọ

uw in the fall.

COVER PAGE

C

H DocId: DocId:32989706 Paye

18

---

## Page 19

"FD-3OS, (Rey. 5-2-60)

• MI. 100-15422

.1.

2.

• 3.

XX Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and Form FD-122

has been submitted to the Bureau.

4.

[A suitable photograph Xxis

• is not available.

Date photograph was taken -

1962

S.• [ Subject is employed in a key facility and

is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are

6. 88 This report is classified -

_CONFIDENTIAL

- because

(state reason)

It contains information furnished by MI T-1

and MI T-2; confidential informants of continuing

value,

the unauthorized disclosure of whose

Identities may compromise their future effectiveness.

%. [ Subject previously interviewed (dates)

Ex, Subject was not sailterviewed bexxuss (state reason)

in view of her student status.

8. [ This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria and a letter

has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the

Security Index card..

9.

&& This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the Security Index

criteria and it continues to fall within such criteria because

(state reason)

subject identified, in 1967, as a Secretary of

the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) in Madison,

and attended National Convention, Socialist

lace sation:

Workers Party (SWP), Same year•

.

10. 88 Subject's SI card is AX is not tabbed Detcom.

Subject's activities warrant Detcom tabbing because (state reasons)

COVER PAGE

D*

NW 55314 DocId:32989706 Page

19

---

## Page 20

FD-376 (Rer. 8=1-66)

UNI'IR

TATES DEPARTMENT OF JU-

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C- 20535

August 2, 1968;

In Reply, Please Rejer 80

File No..

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

Dear Sir:

. "

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual who is believed to be

covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning Presidential pro-

tection, and to fall within the category or categories checked.

- 1. [ Has attempted or threatened bodily harm to any government official or employee,

including foreign government officials-residing in or planning an imminent visit to the

U. S., because of his official

status.

2. [] Has attempted or threatened to redress a grievance against any public official by other

than legal means.

3. Ex Because of background is potentially dangerous; or has been identified as member or

participant in communist movement; or has been under active investigation as member

of other group or organization inimical to U.S.

4. DO U.S. citizens or residents who defect from the U. S. to countries in the Soviet or

Chinese Communist blocs and return.

5. [ Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists who meet one or more of the following

criteria:

(a)

• Evidence of emotional instability (including unstable residence and

employment record) or irrational or suicidal behavior:

Expressions of strong or violent anti-U. S. sentiment;

. (c)

Prior asts (including arrests or convictions) or conduct or statements

indicating a propensity for violence and antipathy toward good order

and government.

6. 0 Individuals involved in illegal bombing or illegal bomb-making.

Photograph • has been furnished

enclosed

• is not available

[ may be available through

Very truly yours,

afoover

John Edgar Hoover

Director

1 - Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s) ]) (Registered Mail)

V. S. Secret Service, Milwaukee

Enclosure(s) 1 (Phi) (Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any, this transmittal form

becomes UNCLASSIFIED.)

NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 • Paye 20

---

## Page 21

FD-204 (Rev, 3-3-59)

Copy 10:

UNI.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SE

CONFIDENTIAL

1 - Secret Service, Milwaukee

(Registered Mail)

Report of:

Dale:

SA THOMAS I. MADDEN

August 2, 1968

Field Office File #:

- MI 100-15422

Title:

MATILDE J. ZIMIERMANN

Office:

Milwaukee

Burecu File 1:

100-449333

Characier:

SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Synopsis:

Subject was scheduled to speak on Tanzania at a forum

sponsored by Socialist Workers Party (SWP) in Chicago,

Illinois, on 5/24/68. Subject has left Madison, Wisconsin,

and present whereabouts unknown.

-P.-

DETAILS:

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Exciuded fron automatic

downgrading and

declassifIcation

This document contains nelther recommendations

nur conclusions of the FBI. it is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; 18 and its

contents are not to be distrlbuted outside your agency.

HH 55314

DocId:32989706

Page 21

U.S. COVERENT SRINTING OXIT 1017_0. 077.040

---

## Page 22

MI. 100-15422

At Madison, Wis•

Education

63614

Records at the University. of Fisconsin (UF) failed to reflect

whether,

subject received. a diploma at the June 1968

graduation.

Source

on June 12, 1958

Residence

subject moved fron 416 West lain Street ia June 1968 and

indicated she was going to California.

She did not leave

forwarding address and gave no indication that she was

planning to return to ladison.

Source

• on July 29, 1968

Connection With Communist Party and/or

Other Basic Revolutionary. Organizations

At a meeting of the Chicago Socialist Workers Party (SHP)

on. May 6, 1968,

at Chicago, 11t.,

it was learned that

MATILDE ZINERIAN, a member of the Young socIalist Mitance

(YSA), Madison, will speak on Tanzania at the May 24, 1968,

forum:

Sóurce

MI T-1 on May 10, 1968

The Socialist Workers Party has been

designated pursuant to Executive Order

10450.0

A characterization. of the Young Socialist

Alliance is attached in the Appendix.

At an open forum meeting sponsored by the Madison Chapter

of YSA, held on the UN campus on July 26, 1968, it was

determined that MATILDE ZIERMAN was not present at this

meeting.

Source - MI I-2 01 July 29, 1968

====::

tar: 51a.3:.

..

-191199.

{NN 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 22

---

## Page 23

MI 100-15422

-Confidential informants familiar with some aspecis

of subversive activities at the University of

Wisconsin and in the City of Madison were shown a,

photograph of subject, and all advised subject was

unknown to them.

-3

WW 55311 DocId: 32989706 Page

23

---

## Page 24

MI- 100 - 1542%

CONFIDENTIAL

L side!

нет и ку

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

The May, 1960, issue of the "Young Socialist" (YS),

page 1, columa 3,

disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960, a

national organization entitled "The Young Socialist Alliance"

(YSA) was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This issue

stated that this organization was formed by the nationwide

• supporter clubs of the publication yS.

The above issue, page 6, set forth the Founding

Declaration of the YSA. This declaration stated that the YSA

recognizes the Socialist Workers Party. (SWP) as the only existing

political leadership on class struggle principles, and that the

supporters of the YS have come into basic political solidarity

With the SiP on the principles of revolutionary socialism.

On March 10, 1967, a source advised that the YSA was

formed during 1957, by youth of various left socialist tendencies,

particularly members and followers of the SHP. The source further

advised that the

YSA has recently become more opén about

admitting that it is the youth group of the SWP and that an SWP

representative has publicly stated that the YSA is the SWp's

youth group.

The headquarters of the YSA are located in Rooms

532-536, 41 Union Square West, New York City.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive

Order 10450.

APPENDIX

CONFIDENTIAL

: IN 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 24

---

## Page 25

FD-323 (Rer. 11-29-61)

UNITÈ

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Milwaukee, Visconsin

August 2,

1968

ICE

In Keply, Please Rejer 20

File No.

TItle MATILDE J. ZIMMERMAN

Character SECURITY MATTER-SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Reference Report of SA THOMAS L. MADDEN, at

Malwaukee, Wisconsin, dated and captioned

as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

"jives no

This document contains notther racommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It is tho proporty

your egency.

of the FBI and ls loaned to your agency; it and lis contents are not to ba distributed outside

1H. 1531%.: DocId:32989706

Fage

25

---

## Page 26

FD=2:3. (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL

WREAU OF INVE DIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

MILWAUKEE

TITLE OF CASE

MATILDE J.

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

ZIMHERMAN, aka

DATE

12/3768

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/19/68

REPORTIMADE BY

SA THORAS L.

MADDEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

SM - SWP

TYPED BY

•els

REFERENCE

1-

Los Angeles meno dated 1/30/68,

Los Angeles letter to Milwaukee 8/2/68,

Milwaukee report of SA THOlAS I. MADDEN 8/2/68,

New York letter to Milwaukee 10/23/68 and

Milwaukee FD 128 dated 11/25/68.

• RUC -

ADMINISTRATIVE

AGLANCY:

REC'O

FORW

REQ.

DATE

HOW FORW.

BY

New York was designated new Office of Origin by referenced

FD 128 dated 11/25/68.

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of an FD 376.

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

NONE

ACQUIT.

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR MIYES INO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES GNO

APPROVED

COPIESMADE:

5-Bureau

(100-449333)

(Registered

Mail)

I-secret Service, Milwaukee

3-New York (100-164365)

(Registered Mail)

I-Nilwaukee (100-15422)

SPERAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

14÷333

REC 43

19 DEC 6

1968

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Ewd.

How Fwd.

By

55314

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

SAC, SS

A C ST

thi

1-HE8

10/30/41 11-10-64

R/S

tilS

Ff sit

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32989706

Page 26

Notations

- A

COVER PAGEY.

GFO: 18880-299-885

---

## Page 27

MI 100-15422

INFORMANTS

Identity

MI T-1 is

Location

MI. T-2 is

enformant

134-3189A-18

• NY 100-164365

MI T-3

a, Stuca NY 100-164365

St. John's College,

Jamaica, New York

(Requested)

- B

COVER PAGE

W 55314

DocId: 32989706 Page 27

---

## Page 28

FD-305 (Rev. 7-25-68)

MI. 100-15422

1. 5x7 Subject's name is included in the Security Index or L. Agitator Index.

I The data appearing on the [7 Security Index Card [ Agitator Index Card are

current.

3.

- Changes on the LJ Security Index Card [J Agitator Index Card are necessary

and [] Form FD-122 CJ FD-397 submitted so the Bureau.

@& A suitable photograph

[X] is

is not available.

Date photograph was taken

I Subject is employed in a key facility and

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are.

15

6.

[x This report is classified

CONFIDENTIAL

(state reason)

it contains information furnished by MI T-I and

MI T-2, confidential informants of continuing

value,

the unauthorized disclosure of whose

identities may compromise their future effective-

ness.

7. [ Subject previously intervielfed (dates)

P Subject was notzsinterviewed tracers (state reason)

in view of her student status.

bernie?

.8..[] This case no longer meets the [ Security Index E] Agitator Index criteria asia

letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation.

9. Xi This case has been reevaluated in she light of the X Security Index D Agit

Index criteria, and it continues to fall within Such criteria because (state reasoi;

subjeck identified, in 1967, as a Secretary of

the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) in Madison,.

and attended National Convention, Socialist

Workers Party (SWP), same year.

• 10.

_Subject's SI card is tabbed [ Priority I [Priority Il [] Priority IlI.

[rubject's activities warrant such tabbing because (state reasons)

COVER PAGE

55314 DocId: 32989706

Page 28

---

## Page 29

UNIT.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF IU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

December 3, 1968

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20535

In Reply, Please Refer so

• File No.

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

Dear Sir:

RE:

MATILDE JANE ZIMMERMAN

SH - SUP

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual who is beliéved to be,

covered by the agreemeni between the FBI and Secret Service concerning Presidential pro-

tection, and to fall within the category or categories checked..

1. [ Has attempted or threatened bodily harm to any government official or employee,

including foreign government officials residing in or planning an imminent visit to the

U.S., because of his official status.

2. ] Has attempted or threatened to redress a grievance against any public official by other

than legal means.

3. La Because of background is potentially dangerous; or has been identified as member or

participant in communist movement; or has been under active investigation as member

of other group or organization inimical to U. S.

4. DU. S. citizens or residents who defect from the U. S. to countries in the Soviet or

Chinese Communist blocs and return.

5. [ Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists who meet one or more of the following

criteria:

(a) [ Evidence of emotional instability (including unstable residence and

employment record) or irrational or suicidal behavior:

(b) [J Expressions of strong or violent anti-U. S. sentiment; •

(c)

[J Prior acts (including arrests or convictions) or conduct or statements

indicating a propensity for violence and antipathy toward good order

and government.

6. Individuals involved in illegal bombing or illegal bomb-making.

Photograph has been furnished

[enclosed

•I may be available through

[J is not available

....

110

Very truly yours,

afoover

John Edgar 1

loover

Directo

1 - Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s) 1

U. S. Secret Service , Milwaukee

Enclosure(s) 1

(Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any, this transmittal form

becomes UNCLASSIFIED.)

NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 29

---

## Page 30

UN

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO

TICE

Copy lo:

I-secret Service, Milwaukee (Registered Mail)

Repos of:

Dols:

SA THOMAS I, MADDEN

December 3, 1968

Fisid Offica File # MI 100-15422

Title:

MATILDE J. ZIMIERMAN

Ofice:

Milwaukee

Bureou File #:

700-449333

Characier:

Synopsis:

DETAILS:

SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Subject identified attending YSA meeting, Los

Angeles, California on 12/27/67. Subject is

presently living New York, New York and employed

St. John's College, Jamaica, New York.

- RUC -

MATILDA from Madison, Wisconsin gave a report on

the Young Socialist Alliance at Madison at a

Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) meeting December

27, 1967, at 1702 East 4th Street, Los Angeles,

California.

(HI I-1 - January 16, 1968)

A characterization of YSA is

attached hereto.

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading. and

declassification.

This document contatno nelther secommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It 1s the proporty of the FBI and ls loaned la

your agency: it and its contants are not to be distrlbuted outalde your agency,

WH 55314. DocId: 32989706

Page. 30

#U.3. GOVIRHMEHT PRINTING ORFICE: 1 987-0-273-878

---

## Page 31

MI 100-15422

A photograph of MATILDE JANE ZIMMERNAN waS

observed and it was determined that subject was

identical to person known as MATILDA from Madison;

Wisconsin who attended YSA meeting at Los Angeles,

California on December 27, 1967.

(BI I-1 - July 18, 1968)

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN became a member of the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP), New York Local on

October 22, 1968.

(BIT T-2 - October 23, 1968)

The SVP has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

ZIMMERMAy waS appointed as a lecturer in

History at St. John's College, Jamaica, New York,

during September, 1968, and the records reflect the

; following temporary address for her:

C/O Mrs. W. W.

WHITE

2 Tudor City Place, Apartment 71,

North

New York, New York.

your agency; li ana. is conten's are

| HH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 31

---

## Page 32

→0P.vF

- 507.

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

The May, 1960, issue of the "Young Socialist" (YS),

Page 1, Column 3,

disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960, a

national organization entitled "The Young Socialist Alliance"

(YSA) was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This

Issue stated that this organization Has formed by the nationwide

supporter clubs of the publication is.

The above issue, page 6, set forth the Founding

Declaration of the YSA.

This declaration stated that the

YSA recognizes the Socialist Workers Party (SHP) as the only

existing political leadership on class struggle principles,

and that the supporters of the Ys have come into basic political

solidarity with

the SHP on the principles of revolutionary

socialism.

On March 10, 1967, a source advised that the YSA was

formed during 1957, by youth of various left socialist tenden-

cles, particularly

members and followers of the She. The

sourCe Iurther advised that the ysA has recently become more

open about admitting that it is the youth group of the SHp

and that an SWP representative has publicly stated that the YSA"

is the SHe's youth group.

The National Headquarters of the YSA are located

in Room 532-536, 41 Union Square West, New York City.

On October 31, 1967, a second source advised that

at the 22nd National Convention of the SWP held in New York City

Iron October 26, 1967, to October 29, 1967, it was stated that

the isa remained as the main recruiting ground for new swp..

members.

=

The SWP has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order 10450.

APPENDIX

3 $

i NH 55314 DoOId: 32989706

Page

32

---

## Page 33

HU-JeS INer. TI-29-017

UNI'S

STATES DÉPARTMENT OF J

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

December 3,. 1968

'ICE

Ins Reply, Please Refer 10

File Na.

TItle

MATILDE J. ZILVERMAN

Character

Reference

SECURITY MATTER-SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Report of SA THOMAS I. MADDEN at

Milwaukee, Wisconsin, dated and

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

Information in the past.

HH 55314

your agency.

on the end to done el you recent den come do not to tributed outse

it le the property

DocId: 32989706 Page

33

---

## Page 34

- FD-200 (REv. 12-19:87)

FEDERAL@UREAU UF INV TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

ANCHORAGE

MATILDE JANE MILES aka

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

10/8/69

8/25 - 9/25/69

REPORT MADE BY

RAYLOND TU JACKSON

CHARACTER OF. CASE

'SM-SHP

TYPED BY

baa,

REFERENCES:

Anchorare letter' to Bureau, dated 8/25/69, captioned,

"JOSEPH DARRYL MILES, SM-SWP"

New York letter to the Bureau, dated 9/5/69,

captioned

as above.

New York FDi128, dated 9/9/69, captioned as

above.

-RUC-

ENCLOSURES:

FORlY.

TO BUREAU ()

Two (2) copies of an FD 376, one of which is for

transmittal to

Secret Service, HDC.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

CONVIC

AUTO.

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

EE NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

LIYES INO

DrES LINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

100-41/205 - 13

T5-Bureau (100-429333) (Enolsa) (R)

.1-Secret Service,

4-108th MI GrOUD,

NIE (RES)

3-Anchorage (R1)

1 seein

1-New York (100-164365)

REG 55

2 00T 10 153

1)

Dissemination Record of Atroched Report

Agency

SS(3)'

Request Recd.

Dare Find

1a /30/491

B TO TEN

11S

10 0 рог.

10/30/57

1/5

54012211)

- 39989706

Page 31

Notations

1110, 69

GPO: 19680-399-885

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 35

NY 100-164365

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Four copies of this report are being disseminated

locally: to the 108th MI Group due to the fact that the

subject is presently living with and possibly married to

JOSEPH DARRYL, MILES, Who is currently serving in the US Army

In Anchorage, Alaska.

The subject is also affiliated with

the GI Civil Liberties Defense Committee.

There is no Bureau approved characterization for

the Student Mobilitation Cormittze to End tie War in Vietnam

or the GI Civil Liberties Defense Committee.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-les Souve

File Number Where Located

100-164365-3

St. John's University

Queens, NY (By Request)

NY T-2

NY I-3

NY I-4

MY T-5

NY I-6

134-93824-1227, 1234, 1284, 1243,

1254,

1263,

1271,

1261,

12793.

1326, 1329,

100-164365-6

ИР 134-812-129

SF 134-4272A-45

100-164365-39

PH 134-39-1556

100-164365-58

* Deuster deformant Symbol #

(COVER PAGE)

HH 55314 DooId:32989706 Page 35

---

## Page 36

NY 100-164365.

INFORMANTS (CONTINUED) :

Identity of Source

MY 3-7

NY T-8

*

NY T-9

File Number Where Located

134-1411A-365

100-164365-64

100-164365-46

TY I-10

Source

134-15721A-69

NY T-11

CG 134-2454-667

* Denotes Informant Symbol #:

(COVER PAGE)

IN 55314 DocId: 32999706 Page 36

---

## Page 37

NX, 100-1a 336Ecr's name is included in the Security Index:

2.

.3.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and Form FD-122

has been submitted to the Bureau.

4. L A suitable photograph ajis [ is not ayallable.

Date photograph was taken —

May, 1909

3. I guest win secret reagon saly, in

is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies arè

[X This report is classified "Confidential"

_ because

(state reason) it contains information from NY I-l

through NY I-ll, the unauthorized disclosure of

which could reveal their identities and compromise

their future effectiveness:

This could be injurious

to the national defense.

%. [i Subject previously interviewed (dates) not interviewed

X Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason)

It is being leit to the discretion of the office

of Origin to interview the subject. She was never

previously interviewed because of her status as a

student and teacher.

8. • This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria and a letter

has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation of the

Security Index card.

9. IX This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the Security Index

criteria and it continues to fall within, such criteria because

(state reason) the subject attended numerous SAP-NYL

meetings in 1968-69, and she attended a NY SWP

Branch Conference in February, 1969 (instant report).

Priority III

[ Subject's activities warrant Detcom tabbing because (state reasons)

-Dra

(COVER PAGE)

55311 DocId;32989706

Page '37

---

## Page 38

UNIT'L

FED

• STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

RAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO

MYASHINGTON, D.C.

20535

237 - 1359

In Reply,

File No.

Buille

Please leer 100-449333

DirelYfile 100-164365

• United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

Dear Sir:

CONFIDENTIAL

Re: Matilde Jane Miles

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual who is believed to be

covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning Presidential pro-

tection, and to fall within the category or categories checked..

i. • Has attempted or threatened bodily harm to any government official or employee,

including foreign government officials residing in or planning an imminent visit to the

U. S., because of his official status.

2. [ Has attempted or threatened to redress a grievance against any public official by other

than legal means.,

3. [X] Because of background is poteitially dangerous; or has been identified. as member or

participant in communist movement; or has been under active investigation as member

of other group or organization inimical to U.S.

4. DU.S. citizens or residents who defect from the U. S. to countries in the Soviet or

• Chinese Communist bloes and return.

5. L] Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists who meet one or more of the following

: criteria:

=:.=

(a) L Evidence of emotional instability (including unstable residence and

employment record) or irrational or suicidal behavior:

7b)

Expressions of strong or violent anti-. S. sentiment;

(c)

Prior acts (including arrests or convictions) or conduct or statements

indicating a propensity for violence and antipathy toward good order

and government.

6..

Individuals involved in illegal bombing or illegal bomb-making.

Photograph has been furnished I enclosed

•J is not available

# may be available through

Very truly yours,

afoover

John Edgar Hoover

Directo

CONFIDENTIAL

• 1 - Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s) (2) (RM)

U. S. Secret Service, MYC

Enclosure(s) (2) (RM)l pon remoral of classified enclosures, if uny, this transmittal form.

becomes UYCLASSIFIED.)

HH 55314 Do0Id:32989706 Page

38

---

## Page 39

UNITE

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

ERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

INE

CONFIDENTIAL

Copy 10:

Report of:

Dales

Field Offico File *

Tilles

1-Secret Service, NYC (RM)

4-108th MI GrOUp, NYC

(R™)

RAYMOND

T. JACKSON.

10/8/69

.100-164365

MATILDE JANE MILES

Ofices New York, New lork

Bureau Filo #: 100-449333

Character:

SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Synopsis:

Subject resides at 4323 Thompson Street, Apartment 24,

Mountain View, Alaska; she is the National Secretary

of the GI Civil Liberties Defense Committee (GICLDC) .

As of

Sept., 1968, subject was a member of the YSA and attanded the 8th

National Convention of that organization in 1968.

subject

attended numerous SiP-NYL meetings in-1968-69;

she attended a NY

SWP Branch Conference and was a speaker at a Militant Labor Forum

1n: Philadelphia, Pa., during Feb., 1969.

Subject was

a speakar

and/or attended

numerous functions in connection with'her position

as an officer of the GICLDC during 1968-69.

Prior to Sept., 1968,

the subject was known as MATILDE. ZIMERMAN.

•• RUC,.

DETAILS: "

I.: - BACKGROUND

Residence and Employment

During August, 1969,

the subject arrived in Anchorage,

Alaska, and 1s currently residing at 4323 Thompson Street,

Apartment 24, Mountain View, Alaska.

August 25, 1969

=:::

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP I

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

This documont containa nolther recommendalions nor conclusions of the FBI. It ls the proporty of the FBI and la loaned lo

your agency; 11 and lis contents are not to be distributed outside your adeney.

NS. 55314 DocId: 32989706: Paye 39.

---

## Page 40

NY. 100-164365

•As of August, 1969, the subjoct was the

National

secretary of the GI Civil Liberties Defense Committee (GICLDC).

RY T-2

August 11, 1969.

Be

Marital Status

The subject, .as Mrs.

JOSEPHI

DARRYL MILES, iS

currently residing:with JOSEPH DARRYL MILES in Mountain View,

Alaska:

- SOURCE

August 25,

1969

Former Employment and Residence

During September, 1968,

the subject was appointed

& 'Tecturer in History at St. John's. University, Queens,

New

Lark, at which time she was residing at number 2, Tudor City

Place, Apartment 7-I, New York, New York..

TTY I-1

October 14, 1968•

II.

AFFILIATION WITH THE

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE (YSA)

?

staharacterization of the YSA

appears in the Appendix pages

attached hereto.

..:,:..

MembershiD

of the YSA,

5-==

tri

As of September 25%.

, 1968,

the subject was a member

aS MATILDE ZIMMERMAN

NY T-2

October 28, 1968

у блі, А! ї

Bi::ISA Convention

The subject was in attendance at the 8tb National

YSA Convention, hold in Chicago, Illinois, from November 28, 1968,

to December. 1, 1968.

".:=.:r.=.:=e.

•=.

WH 55314 DocId:@2989706 • Page-40

---

## Page 41

as.

NY 100-164365

NY I-3

December 7, 1968

The subject was in attendance at the 8th National

YSA Convention, mentioned above, at which time she served on

& panel comprised of active duty GIs.

NY I-4

December 26, 1968

IIL.

AFFILIATIC MICH THE

SOCIALIST WORKERS. PARTY (SWP)

The SWP has been designated

pursuant to Executive Order

10450.

A.

MembershiD

At a closed membership branch meeting of the

SWP-New York Local (NYL,) held on October 22, 1968, at 873

Broadway, New York City, it was announced that the subject,

who had joined the ISA a year ago in Madison, Wisconsin, had

applied for membership in the SWP.

NY T-2

November 12, 1968

A characterization of the SWP-NYi.

appears in the Appendix pages

attached hereto.

As @ January 28, 1969, the subject was a member of

the SWP-NYL.

MY 1-2

February 5, 1969

B. SWP-NYL Meetings

The subject was in attendance at seven closed membership

branch meetings of the SWP-NYT all held at $73 Broadway, New fork

Citte between the period October 29, 1968 to January 20, 1969.

•3-

55314 DocIđ:32989706 Page 4i

---

## Page 42

NY 100-164365

At the meeting on October 29, 1968, the subject was

welcomed as a new member of the SWP-ilL.

NY T-2

November 22, 1968

February 5,

1909

SWP Branch Conference.

The subject was in attendance at a New York SHP

Branch Conference held on February 8, 1959, at 873 Broadway,

New York City..

NY T-2

March 8, 1969

D. Militant Labor Forum (ILF)

At a MIF, syonsored by the Philadelphia SWP held

on February 7, 1959, at Philadalphia SWP Headquarters, 60o

North Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it was

announced that the

subject, no is the National Secretary of

the GICLIC, would be the speaker at the next Mur to be held

that Friday at the same location.

NY 1-5

February 10, 1969

the subject,

as the National Secretary of the GICIDC,

was the guest speaker at the ile sponsored by the Philadelphia

SHP on February 14, 1969, at 686 North Broad Street, Philadeiphia,

Pennsylvanis. The

subject spoke of the rising resistance o

the war and related specilic instances happening In-many

United States Army camps around the country.

FI I-6

February 25, 1969

-..÷.

•WH 55314 DocId: 32989706 • Page 42

---

## Page 43

NY 100-164365

IV. MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITY

As of November, 1968, the GICLIC was being headed

by the subject, who is a new member of the SWe-litt.

NY T-2

November 14; 1968

servicemen. flyer dated December 18, 1968, narked "Free To

entluicu

"The Ultimate Weapon of the Ft. Dix

Free speech Movement"

states: "On Saturday, December 7,

at the University of Pennsylvania, the Ft.

Dix Free Soeech

Movement held 1ts first public activity, - sa eI Teach-In'

to inform concerned civilians and soldiers of the Gis rignt

to discuss and express himseli on

political natters wich

effect him as an American citizen.

This flyer further

indicated that the subject, as Chairman of the GICLDo, and another

Individual discussed several attempts by the Army to couri-

martial GIS for exercising the rights guaranteea to them

by the First Amendment of the Constitution.

NY I-6

April 8, 1969

The subject was one of several speakers at a GI •

Teach-In and rally held on December 18,1958, at Hunter College,

New York City:

All the speakers,

including the subisct, spoke

out against the GIs cooperation with the establishment.

KY I-T

December 26, 1968

The subject was in attendance at the National GI'-

Civilian Anti-Har Conference held from December 27 - 29, 1950,

at the Young Men's Christian Association (IMCA) Hotel, 826

South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Illinois.

This conference wes

sponsored by the Chicago Veterans for Peace in Vietnam and

the Student Mobilization Committee to End the War in Vietnam

(SME).

MI T-8

December 30, 1968

•HH 55314 - DocId:32989706 Page 43

---

## Page 44

HY: 100-164365

On March 2, 1969, a "GI-Civilian Conference Against

the War in Vietnam"

was to be held in the main auditorium of

Wright State University; Fairborn, Ohio, ained at attracting

the participation of military personnel

assigned to the

Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and other nearby military

posts.

Tha aims and purposes of this conference were to

advise the GIs of their constitutional rights of free speech

and assembly as related to their opposition united States

Involvement in South Vietnan.

and to promote participation

of military personnel in public demonstrations against this

involvement and in the publication or underground military

newspapers.

The subject, as the Director of the GICLDC, was

to be one of the main speakers at this conference.

In connection with the above, the subject representing

the GICLDC opened her remarks on March 2, 1959, by welcoming

the recent resistance against the war in Vietnam and stated that

such actions had added a "new and powerful" constituency

to the group opposed to the nar.

During her talk she spoke mainly of the GIs civil

rights, indicating that dissent should be formed within the

framework of the constitution.

She further stated that the

"brass"

cannot legally prominented desired In voicing

their grievences in demonstrating against the war and that

attempts to prohibit such actions shouid be contested in the

courts.

SOURCE

... to latteria

Rebruam

20y4959

::

March 9, 1969

A leaflet announced that a "Anti-War Basic Training

Day" would be held at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn,

New York, on March 12, 1968, at which the subject, from the

GICIDE, would be a speaker.

NY T-9

March 10, 1969

WW 55314 DocId: 32989706 • Page

44

---

## Page 45

MY 100-164365

The subject was a member of a "GI Rights Panel"

at an Anti-War Basic Training Day meeting held on March 21,

1969, at Barnard Gymnasium; Columbia University, New York

CIt}.

NY I-10

March 26, 1969

The subject was in attendance at the National SMC

Conference held on July 6, 1969, in cleveland, Oh10.

NY

July

17 8, 1969

=.

-7-

-==

* HH 55314 DooId: 3298970€ ' Page 45

---

## Page 46

NY 100-164365

1.

APPENDIX

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY -

NEW YORK LOCAL

A source advised on August 25; 1960, that the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) - New York Local (NYL) was

founded in New York City.

A second source advised on May 20, 1968, that the SWP-

NYl, was affiliated with and followed the aims of the National

SWP.

The Swe has been designated pursuant to

•Executive Order 10450.

':.

-8

| NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 •Page 46

---

## Page 47

• NY 100-164365

APPENDIX

"YOUNG SOCIALIST"

-The "Young Socialist" is a magazine published

monthly, except during the summer,

by the Young Socialist

Alliance.

The October, 1954, edition, the initial edition

utilizing the magazine format, relates that this marazin

succeeds

the "young Socialist" newspaper in an effort to

provide "more facts on more general issues than a small

newspaper can".

The "Young Socialist" newspaper was formerly described

as the official organ of the Young Socialist Alliance (YSA) .

The "Young Socialist" maintains office space at the.

headquarters of the YSA, Rooms 532-536, 41 Union Square West,

New York City, and has a mailing address of Post Office Box

471, Cooper Station, lew York, New York 10003.

A characterization of the YSA is set out

separately.

-=:

.:.

1712=

==;=:.

==

KH. 55314. DocId: 32989706 - Page 17 -

---

## Page 48

APPENDIX.

NY 100-164365

• CONFIDENTIAI.

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

• . The May, 1960 issue of the "Young Socialist" (YS),

page 1, column 3, disclosed that during April 15-17, 1960, a

national organization entitled "The Young Socialist Alliance"

(YSA) was established at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. This

issue stated that this organization was formed by the

nationwide supporter clubs of the publication YS.

The above issue, page f, set forth the Founding

Declaration of

the YSA.

This declaration stated that the YSA

recognizes the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) as the only

existing political leadership on class strugale principles

of revolutionary socialism.

On March 10, 1967, a source advised that the YSA was

• formed during 1957,

by youth of various left socialist

tendencies, particularly members and followers of the SWP... The

source further advised that the YSA has recently become! more

open about adnitring that it is the youth group of the SWp and

that an SWP representative has publicly stated that the YSA

is the SUP's youth group.

The Tational Headquarters of the YSA are located in

Rooms 532-536, 4I Union Square West, New York City.

on October 31, 1967, a second source advised that at the

22nd National Convention of

the SWP held in New York City from

October 26, 1967, to October 29, 1967, it was stated that the

YSA remained as

the main recruiting ground for new SWP members.

The Si? has been designated pursuant

to Executive Order: 10450. .

A Characterization of "Young Socialist"

is set out separately.

-10*-

CONFIDENTIAL

IH. 55311 DocId:32989706 Paye 48

---

## Page 49

- Fp-323 (Rov.? 1-29-61)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York,

New York

October 8, 1969

In Reply, Pleuse Refer 80

File No. Bufile 100-449333

NYfile. 100-164365

Title

Matilde Jane Miles

Character

Security Matter - Socialist

Workers Party

Reference

Is made to report of Special

Agent Raymond I. Jackson, dated and captioned as above at

New York.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

:

NH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 49

--=-

---

## Page 50

Memorandam

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

5/12/70

FROM

SAE, ANCHORAGE (200-2382) (C)

/SUBJECT

DEMONSTRATIONS, APRIL, 1970, IO

PROTEST WAR TAXES. AND. THE

PRODUCTION OF WAR MATERIAL SY

CORPORATIONS

Re Bureau Airtel to Albany, dated March

19,

1.970,

and Anchorage teletype to Bureau, dated April 20, 1970.

Enclosed for the Bureau

are the original and live

copies of a letterhead memorandum captioned as above,

Enclosed for Washingion Field Office is one copy oi

this letternead memorandun.

A copy is being submitted to .

11. i

Washingion Field Office as

the letterhead memorandun contains

information concerning JOSIPE B. MILES and this individual

is identical with JOSEPH DARRYL MILES, SM-SiP, with Washingwor

Field Office as Office of Origin.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is classified

CONFIDENTIAL, Group 1, as it contains information irom sources

of continuing value,

the unauthorized disclosure of which could

reveal their identities and compromise their future effectiveness;u

which would be injurious to the National Defense.

For information of the Bureau, á report is not beinr

submitted inasmuch as the activity reported in enclosed letter-

head memorandum was peaceful and did dot result in violation of

Bodora Sea cutes over, a te iT 91 0 4 2 sean.

NOT RECODED

(2 - BUREAU (Enc: 6) (RM)

191 LA: 37"

1 - WASHINGION FIELD (100-47236)

(Enc. 1) (Riv)

3 - ANCHORAGE (1 - 100-2382)

1 - 100-2481

÷(1 - 100-2484)

15 MAY SISTE

CEM./ ga

(6)

ACENCY: ACSI, ONI, OSt:

• SEC. SER.: RAO (ISD

, ERD;1010).

F3

SALE FURWARD: 5-29-10

HOW FORWARD:

i/s

59 JUN 198197Jpy

I SECON

RESEARC

/ENCLOSURE

66. JUN 1 1970 U.S. Swings Bonds Regulurly on the Payroll Savings Plan

Mw 55314 ДocId:32989706 Pae 50

ORIGINAL

4/20

---

## Page 51

AN 100-2382

The following are identities of sources utilized in

enclosed lesterhead memorandum:

Source l is

SOURCE

Source 2 is

Source 3 is

Source 4 is CE I-1 in letterhead memorandum at

•Charlotte

200-449102.

This source is not further identified, except as

having furnished reliable information in the past.

Source 5 is referred to in the above-mentioned

•Charlotte letterhead memorandum as CE I-3 and as having furnished

reliable information in the pasü.

SONIACE

Source 6 is

Source T is

_ Source 8 is

Source 9 is

→ Siformants

....:

HH55314.

DoCId:32989706 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Is 'Ricply, Please Refer 80

File No.

UNTILT STATES DEPARTVENT OF JUS

•CE

FED

I BUREAU DE INVESTIGATION

ANCHORAGE, ALASKE

NAY 32, 1970

DEMONSTRATIONS, APRIL, 1970, TO

PROTEST WAR TAXES AND. THE

PRODUCTION OF WAR MATERIAL BY

CORPORATIONS

ROBERT K. SUNDBERG, Acting Chief, Fairbanks 1011e

Department, Fairbanks, Alaska, advised on April 10, 1970, Ena-

a rally was being planned in the Fairbanks area nich was

sponsored by the

Faisbanks Moratorium Conmittee: in conjunction

with a

Alaska.

group of soldiers known as the united Servicemen o

Source 1, a. representasive of another Goverment

agency which conducts

intelligence type. investigations, adviseo

on april ly, 1910, that a group of soldiers from Fori Wain-

wright and Fort Greely, Alaska, who call themselves unitea

Servicemen of Alaska, planned to participate with a group of

University. of Alaska

students on April 18; 1970, in a rally and

march to be held in the Fairbanks, Alaska, area. •

Source 2 advised on April 17, 1970, that a schedule

released by the Fairbanks Moratorium Committee disclosed

i that..

2 parade and rally would be held on April 18,. 1970, in

Fairbanks, 'Alaska, in recognition of Vietnam

voratorium Day,

with a second theme to be

Marching for GI Rights"

source 2 advised on April 18, 1970, that at 10:00 ,

on this date, a group of approximately

• 110 individuals from

--::

=::

=

. .. ...o..o..

Mald li.

• :::

•'otaltaw.

HH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 52

4-20

5960500.

ENCLOSURE 11 _ 447535-

---

## Page 53

DEMONSERATIONS, APRIL,

1970

University of Alaska,

a march to the

These individuals

displayed signs

and "warch for Peace"

they arrived at the Federal Building in Fairbanks around and

2:40 Pr, where, they were joined by a group of approximately

60 soldiers in civilian attire.

The soldiers carried a wooden

casket ana several wooden crosses,

each, bearing the name of

onE Alaskan serviceman killed in Vietnam.

source 2 further

advised that a rally of approximately 150 individuals, including

bystanders, commenced

at approximately 2:50 PM, on April 18,

1970, at the Federal Building, Fairbanks.

Among speakers at this rally who opposed the Vietram

conflicE were CORGE B. SCHEURER and JOSEPH D. MILES. SCHEURER

•also read the names of Alaskan Servicemen killed in Vietnam.

source L.advisea that GEORGE B. SCHEURER is a Specialist

Five, who recently"was transferred to Alaska by the

Army

• and is stationed at Fort Wainwrignt.

SCHEURER

is

publisher of "The Green Machine"

, a newspaper printea

for and by GI's at Fort Wainwright, Alaska, which con-

tains articles detrimental to the Army.

Source 3, a representative of another Government

agency which conducts intelligence type investigations, advised

on May 11, 1970, that JOSEPH D. MILES, a Private First

class,

according to this source, MILES spoke or his-disagreement with

United States involvement in Vietram, primarily irom the stana-

in vethen, primity

point of the Negro Soldier.

This source stated that MILES gave

a very brief speech and during his talk did not advocate

violence or confrontation with the Military.

Source 4 advised on December 9, 1968, that JOE MILES

attended the 8th National Convention of the Young

Illinois, from

active duty GI's, was held. One of the speakers was

Miles, who aimitted being a member of YSA and who

• 2 =

NW 55314 DpcId:32989706 Page 53

---

## Page 54

DEYONSTRATIONS,.. APRIL

1970

stald that ine Vietnam her was

a racist war and that

President Johnson was responsible for the death of

GI's ana not the Viet Cong.

A characterization of the YSA is attached

as an appendix to this memorandum.

Source 5 advised on April 8; 1969, that MILES partici-

pated in the Socialist workers

Peace

Party (SWP) and YSA

Rally and March, held in

¿ Chicago,

April 5, 1969.

This source

Illinois, on

stated that MILeS was one

of the main speakers at the Rally and that he was

paid for his travel expenses in connection with this

Rally.

The SVP has been designated by the Attorney

General of the United States pursuant to

Executive Order 1045g.

Source, 6, a

representative of another Government Agency:

GI's United Against the War in Vietnam, at fort Bragg,

North Carolina.

::

Source 6. stated that during the past two months, MILES

had been active in recruiting, organizing and leading

activities of Active Duty GI's in a conirontation with

Military Authorities at Fort Bragg.

Source said MILES

had received support from the SWP and the YSA and

that on May 21, 1909, MILES met with FRED HALSTEAD

at Fort Bragg.

HALSTEAD waS SWP Presidential Candidate

in the 1968 National Elections.

Source 6 further advised that on May 23, 1969, Private

MILES received a one-man levy from the Department of

the Army, assigning him to Alaska. MILES charged

that since assignments to Alaska are normally. for an

18 month period, and he has approximately one year

of active duty remaining, the Army was harassing him

for his anti-Vietnam War activities.

• 3-

H# 55314 DocId: 32989706

Page

54

---

## Page 55

AE-053- APЭЗЕ, &2270

Source 7 aurisca on Jucuory 12, 2970, toat JOS MT2

16C:0.622,

tiii eka,

Has maiou anong

Mtcrmats

Bart:

o tha vi.

National comisoos at theis goh

Ja bfens

Comontioa hola in Minncspolis, Hirnssota,

ducing in

peajod Decenber 27,, 1959, tu Jacenber

, 1969.

Sourse 3 advidoc on May 11,

19?0,

JOSEPA D. AIUGS

iostdes wiey cis wice,

GRIIDE. JANA

NELES, ReS

wü 1323 hompson Avacue, Aparticent 24;

; "Anchoragey

190.99909 1.11

i i -

¿rcs ü auvised on Movembeï 12, 1950,

that at &

Euas6 maberahip cranca abetang 02 €oa S:3-38:

Totis Foeal (SWP-TYE),

noid on Ceuobes 22; ig0o, &s

от3 згодскей :

New York City,

it.ras announced that

1422108 272132

joinsá the Ysn a yeur ago

in Madison,

wiscontin, hed abplied for membershio in

This source aavised as of January 28, 1569÷

thei zADILDE 20223u4N wag ä membar of the SWP-MyL.

mcaorcaag to tnüs sougce,

ZEOZIAN, as 02 Segtenbar

22, 1959, was a ürans

Anchorage, Alaska

pese Dut of the sie-itvt to

A characterizao

on sã. Uae SVP-nYL is

aftached as an s-

3ancir to this

nenorandum.

Sorees 9 edvisca

:Sho5 on Secanber 10, 1969, a preas

cocereneg mùg hela br tng là at uhe Aabüasedor zouet;

Pssiriag

poñs D. Eo, anù ducing tris conterance, a

1iso

oa ISA State Chaiman vas made available. Inis list

aiseloced thai NARIDE MIuaS, 4323 Thompson Avenue,

#24, Anchorage,

'Alasta, was State Chaiman of the YSA

in Alaska.

fouäte

• 1:

==

===.=

===

ro.=:

ci acaara

san =ii

--==

=-.

..

cia.

-=3.=3

• x)

=.=

=:=

i0w:=.

=:---=31

=:.=

....

"===:=

===.

-==

-

HH 55314 DocId: 32989706

Page 55

---

## Page 56

DEMONSTRATIONS, APRILS 1970

APPENDIX

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE (YSA)

A source advised on May 15, 1969, that the Young

Socialist Alliance (YSA) maintains its national headquarters at

41 Union Square West,. New York, New.York, and has as its official

publication the

"Young Socialist"

The YSA is the youth

organization of the Socialist workers Party (SWP) and has

been described by the SWP as the main recruiting ground fos

the SHP.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

• Executive Order 10450.

1,027 -Я, нІн

• as to t.

HH 55314

DocId: 32989706 Page 56- *-

---

## Page 57

DEMONSTRATIONS

1970

APPENDIX

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

NEW YORK LOCAL (SMP-NYL)

A source aâvised

on August 25, 1960, that the

Socialist Workers Party. (SWP - New York Local NYL Was

founded in New York City.

A

second source advisad on May 20, 1958, that the

SHIP-NYL Was affiliated with and followed

aims of the

National Ste.

The ShiP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Ordes 10450.

JH 55314. DocId:22489706 Page 57

---

## Page 58

In Reply, Pócase Refer 60

File No.

.. UNI D STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FE

RAL BUREAU. OF INVESTICAT

ANCHORAGE, ALASKA

MAY 12, 1970

Title

DEMONSTRATIONS, APRIL, 1970, TO

PROTEST WAR TAXES AND THE PRODUCTION

OF WAR MATERIAL BY CORPORATIONS

Character

Reference

Memorandum dated and captioned as

above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have fumished reliable

intoration in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor concluaions of the Fal, It is the property

of the FBI and la loanod to your agency; li and dia contente are not la ba distributed outside

YOUr aGOnEY.

NH.55314 DocId: 32524706 Rate. 58 ==

---

## Page 59

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM Nú. 10

AKAT 1891 EDITION

ESAFAHR (11 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOV!

YENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449333)

DATE:

4/6/70

SAC, ANCHORAGE (100-2484) (P)

MATILDE JANE

MILES, aka.

SM - SWP

00 • ANCHORAGE

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and five

copies of a Letterhead Memorandum captioned as above.

CONFIDENTIAL-GROUP I, asit contains information from sources

of continuing value, the unauthorized disclosure of which

could reveal their identities and compromise their future

effectiveness which would be injurious to the National defense.

The enclosed Istterhead Memorandum contains informa-

tion indicating association by JON BUCHHOLDT, Executive

Director of the Greater Anchorage Area Community Action Agency,

an Office of Economic Opportunity funded organization, with

subject and his apparent attempt to create dissention concerning

subject's not being permitted to teach on Elmendorf Air Force

Base, Alaska.

The enclosed Letterhead Memorandum is being

submitted as the Bureau may desire to make it available to

the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare or the Office

Economic Ogportunity.

The following are identities of sources utilized in

enclosed Letterhead Memorandum:

Source One is

Source Iwo is

- INPORMANTS

Source Three is

C?.- BUREAU (100-449333) (Enc. 6) (RM)

3 - ANCHORAGE

12 - 100-2484

- 100-2481

CEM/gd

(5)

REC, 66,06 = 449: 12-11

SI-112

NUCICY

ENCLOSURE

• PLQ. REC'D

DATE FORW. 5/02/20

HOYS FORSY.

9 APR I: 1970

197-

27 APR 20

S. Lauregs Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan !

---

## Page 60

AN 100-2484

Source Four is

Source Five is referred to

as CET-1 in Letterhead

Memorandum at Charlotte,

North carolina, dated

April o, 1909, submitted by SAC, Charlotte,

•letter to Bureau, dated July 18, 1969, Bufile

100-449102. This source is not further identi-

fied except as having furnished reliable informa-

tion in

the past.

Source Six is referred to in the above-mentioned

Charlotte Letterhead Memorandum as CET-3, and as

having furnished reliable information in the past.

Source Seven Is

Source Eight 1sf

sow

• 2*

HH 55314

DocId: 32989706

Page

60

---

## Page 61

- In Reply, Please Refer co

•File No.

UNITEI

TATES DEPARTMENT OF. JUS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ANCHORAGE, ALASKA

April 6, 1970

MATILDE JANE MILES

SECURITY MATTER-

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

The Socialist Workers Party (SWP) has been

designated by the Attorney General of the

United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

MATILDE JANE MILES, nee Zimmerman, also Known

as

Mrs: Joseph Darryl Miles, was born September 6, 1943, at ..

She has furnished personal data for employ-

ment disclosing attendance at Radcliffe College from 1960 to

1964, receiving a Bachelor of Arts Degree, magna cum laude, in

1964, with major field in Romance Languages and Literatures.

She attended the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin,

from 1965 to 1908, receiving a Master of Arts Degree in 1907,

She was admitted to candidacy for

Doctor of Philosophy Degree while at the University of Wisconsin,

and in 1968, she received a Certificate in African Studies:

She

has listed publications submitted by her as a teachers' guide

to Arro-American 70-1794% Albany, 1969; "The French Slave Irade

, submitted to Joumal of Afriçan

at Mocambique Internal Trade Patterns in Konbaung Burma

History; and

mitted to the Journal of Southeast Asian History: MATILDE MILES

lists travel and residence abroad at Manila, Philippines, from

1953 to 1956; Bologna, Italy, 1957; Rome, Italy, from 1958 to

1960; Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, 1964-1965; Lisbon, Portugal during

GROUP 1

Excluded fior automtie

dorrgradits; cuù

declissitisation

CONFIDENTAL

This documsu: containe neither resumen

dations no: countains di tie care it is the

propory of chr 281 and is loned to jour

ageniy; it suit. contenis : not to be

distriuted rutide your agricy.

ENCLOSERS 160-449235-77

HH 55314

DocId: 32989706

Paye_61

---

## Page 62

MATILDE JANE MILES

=tiles,

the Summer of 1967; and extensive travel in Európe, Southeast

Asia, and the East/and Central Africa.

She also has stated that

she

can speak Italian,

She

York.

They

currently reside at 4323 Thompson Avenue, Apartment 24,

Anchorage, Alaska.

JOSEPH MILES is presently assigned as a

Supply Clerk with

the Headquarters and Headquarters Company,

United States Army Alaska, Fort Richardson, Alaska. .

Mrs. MILES

furnished information on November 6, 1969,

that she is employed

as a Research Analyst by the community Enterprise Development

Corporation, and is writing a history of the Rural Co-Operative

Movement in Alaska, and doing supplemental research on the

traditional Alaskan economy.

Source One advised on November 20, 1969, that MATILDE

MILES was then employedtwith the Community Enterprise Development

Alaska.

Source Iwo advised on November 12, 1968, that at a

closed membership branch meeting of the SWP-New York

Local (SWP-NYL) held on October 22, 1968, at

873 Broadway, New York City, it was announced that

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN, who had

Joined the Young Socialist

Alliance (YSA) a year ago in Madison, Wisconsin, had

applied for membership in the SWP. The source advised i

as of January 28, 1969, that MATILDE ZIMMERMAN was

& member of

SHP-NYL. According to this source,

ZIMMERMAN, as of September 22, 1969, was a trans-

feree out of the SP-NYL to Anchorage, Alaska.

==. Characterizations of the SWP-NYL and the

YSA are attached as an Appendix to this

= Memorandum.

Source Three advised on February 25, 1969, that MATILDE

ZIMMERMAN was National Secretary of

the GI Civil

Liberties Defense Committee. (GI CLDC) •

= Source Two advised on November 25, 1969,

- that the GI CLDC was formed in the Fall

of

- 1968, under the domination and control of

•2.

COR

WADE MOSAl

1H 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page

62

---

## Page 63

PNEIDENTIAL

MATILDE JANE MILES

the

Swe and its youth affiliate YSA. Its

stated purpose is to solicit contributions

and provide legal counsel and publicity for

GIs allegedly harassed by military authori-

ties for expressing themselves on social

issues, including and especially the Vietnam

WaI.

The swe and its youth group are actively

engaged in generating support for massive

protest demonstrations against United States

policy in Vietnam. SWP interests in this

area, have been extended to include military

personnel who.

are encouraged to participate

in the so-called anti-war movement.

The GI CLDC furnishes active GI opponents of

United States Vietnam Policy with the hope of

a successful legal defense in the event

military disciplinary action is taken against

them as a result of protest activities.

The

SWP also hopes that a number of GIs will be

recruited into the Party.:

The GI CLDC leases an office at Room 836,

41 Union Square, New York City, but much of

its work is done at SiP Headquarters,

+878

Broadway, New: York City.

Source Four advised that on December 10, 1969, a press

conference was held by the YSA at the Ambassador Hotel,

Washington, D. C., and during this conference a list of

YSA State Chairmen was made available. This list

disclosed that MATILDE MILES, 4323 Thompson Avenue,

===:. Number 24, Anchorage, was State Chairman of the YSA for

Alaska.

Source Five advised on December 9, 1968, that JOE MILES

attended the Eighth National Convention

of the YSA at

Chicago;. Illinois, from November 28, 1968, to December 1,

1968. On November 30, 1968, a GI panel consisting of

i...

-3.

CONFOENN.

HH 55314 DooId:32989706 Page

63

---

## Page 64

MATILDE JANE MILES

"ex-GIs and active duty GIs was held.

One of the

speakers was JOE MIIES, who admitted being a member

of the YSA and stated that the Vietnam War was a

racist war and that President JOHNSON was responsible

for the deaths of GIs and not the Viet Cong.

Source Six advised on April 8, 1969, that MILES

participated in the SWP and YSA Peace Rally and

march held in Chicago, Illinois, April 5, 1969. This

source advised that MILES was one of the

main speakers

at the Rally and that he was paid to cover his travel

expenses in connection with this rally.

Source Seven advised on January 12, 1970, that JOE

MILES, Anchorage,

Alaska, was named among alternate

Delegates to the

YA National Committee at their

9th National Convention held in Minneapolis,

Minnesota, during the period December 27, 1909, to

December 30, 1909.

.

Source Eight advised on February 24, 1970, that MATILDE

MILES received a contract from the University of Alaska to

instruct an Afro-American History Course from January 26, 1970,

to May 1, 1970. This course was to be directed through the

Anchorage Community College Branch of the. University of Alaska,

and one section of this course was to be taught at the Orion

Junior High School on Elmendorf Air Force Base, Alaska, which

school is utilized by the Elmendorf-Fort Richardson Branch of

the University of Alaska. This source advised' it was his under-

standing "that the Military disapproved of MATILDE MILES teaching

on Elmendorf Air Force Base, and consequently, the course

scheduled to be taught at Orion Junior High School was trans-

ferred to a high school in Anchorage. Source stated that Mrs.

MILes objected to this transfer and

submitted her resignation

on January 27, 1970. In her letter of resignation, she

reportedly made the following statement:

"It seems to me that the administration of Anchorage

Community College has displayed a serious lack of professionalism

In its recent handling of this course. I was frankly astonished

to. learn last week that one section of the course had been

moved across town from Elmendorf Air Force Base to West High

School, upon the insistence of the Air Force for obscure reasons

of 'security': While it seemed conceivable that the Air Force

-4-

C0M70NM1

1W 55314 DocId=32989706 Page 64

---

## Page 65

•MATILDE JANE MILES

"might regard the history of black America as too dangerous or

subversive for the pristine halls of Orion Junior High School,

it did not seem possible that an accredited academic institu-

tion would accede to such a demand without embarrassment.

:

The February I, 1970, issue of the "Anchorage Daily

News "

a newspaper of general distribution, published at

Anchorage, Alaska, contains an article. on

Page 1, written by

STEPHEN SRENT, Captioned "Air Force Won't Allow Mrs. Miles on

Elmendorf"

This article states in part as follows:

"There probably aren't more than a dozen history Ph.ds

in Alaska and it's safe to say that none of them are more

qualified than a cute and perky young lady named Matilda Miles.

"It is also safe to guess that any except her would be

free to teach at the University of Alaska center. on Elmendorf

Air Force Base.

"MRS. MILES, the Air Force holds, is objectionable

for security reasons.

The Air Force doesn't say what the

reasons are, or even admit that it has any objections. Yet it is

clear that some time between registration two weeks ago and

the

start of classes last week somebody in the Air force quietly

requested the university to boot her out. And the university did

just that,

without asking any questions or lifting a finger in

Mrs. Miles' defense.

"Her husband, Joe, was a leader in"the National Black

Anti-War; Andi-Draft Union until June, 1968--when he was drafted.

Then at Ft. Jackson, S.C., and Ft. Bragg, N.C. respectively, he

organized with considerable success chapters of GIs United

Against the War in Vietnam. Today, a year and a half later,

Miles is a private E2. But his record is unblemished."

===

"LAST JULY Miles was transferred to Ft. Richardson,

where he is now a supply clerk.

• In October, Mrs. Miles became

a substitute. political science instructor for the university at

its Elmendorf branch.

After earning

"BY ANY standard, Mrs. Miles Is unusually qualified.

her doctorate she spent a year teaching in

-5 .

...

DERBE TA

15.8

55314 DocId:32989706 Page 65

---

## Page 66

MATILDE JANE MILES

"Tanzania:

Last year she taught at St. John's University in

New York City. At the same time she wrote a

teachers guide in

Afro-American studies for the New York State Education Department.

-

"Registration came and went. Mrs. Miles recalls:

.

"¡I was all set to give these two classes and very

excited about it.

A week ago Thursday. I learned that the

Elmendorf class had been changed to West High School.

I said

that was impossible.

I said that's extraordinarily inconvenient

for me because I live in Mountain View, and that I was sure it

would be more inconvenient for the servicemen.'"

"LAST TUESDAY, Mrs. Miles checked with the registrar

and found she had 28 students in the merged class.

But she also

lound that nobody told the community college students that their

class would, in fact, be at west High school. At that point

Mrs. Miles

decided to cancel out

altogether.

"She went to class and told the dozen or so students

who managed to find it that, 'I couldn't teach under these con-

ditions. I had too much respect for them

and the course. I

think the students understood and agreed.'"

"And Mrs. Miles says, 'The whole idea that Afro-

American history is dangerous--well it's true.

If you go into it,

you of necessity take on some of the sacred cows of American

history. But that doesn't mean it shouldn't

.. pe done.

""'put the idea that this is a security risk is patently

absurd. They seem to be afraid that if someone should talk about

Nat Turner, Martin Luther King. and Malcolm X in the hallowed

halls of Orion Junior High School, somehow that is going to

bring down the school.'"

WILLIAM KELLY, Community Relations Coordinator, Greater

Anchorage: Area Borough School District, Anchorage, Alaska,

advised on February 17, 1970, that JON BUCHHOLDT from the

Community Action Agency, had recently introduced him to MATILDE

MILES and had described

her as being well qualified to coordinate

-..

After eara

6

COATDESITAL

MH 55314. DocId: 32986706

Page 66

---

## Page 67

SMAL

MATILDE JAÑE MILES

KELLY stated that Mrs. MILES subse-

In regard to the black studies program.

KELLY further advised that he had

which appeared in the

"Anchorage Daily Newerread an article

concerning Mrs.

MILES not being permitted to teach at Elmendorf Air Force Base

in connection with her position with the Anchorage Community.

College. KeLLY stated that after this article appeared in the

"Anchorage Daily News"

, BUCHHOLDE contacted him and advised

that he (BUCHHOLDT) had

"Anchorage Daily Neirs"

released this article to BRENT of the

Source Eight advised on February 24, 1970, that many

copies of the following letter, dated February 16, 1970, from

JON BUCHHOLDT,

Executive? Director, Greater Anchorage Area

Community Action Agency, to the President and faculty of the

University of Alaska, had been left at the Anchorage Community

College, which is a

branch of the University of Alaska:

-".

11.

=-:

GETTE.

gregarage

=i"=

3 =

===.

-...

-...

=

-==:

'..

beatreate

==

-7--:

==-i

CONRIDENIAL

| NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 67

---

## Page 68

INCHORA

9 L

•ASKA.

9900

February 16, 1970

CONTIBENTIAL

I M. BUCHHOLOT

Ex88re Direesor

President and Faculty

University of Alaska

College, Alaska 99701

Gentlemen:

It has been over a week since the Anchorage Daily News

revealed that Mr. Gene Laurent bowed to military pressure

to prevent Matiide Zimmermann Miles from teaching a Black

history course offered by the University of Alaska in the

evening at Orion Jr. High School located at Elmendorf Air

Force Base. This meek acquiescence and compliance to

military intervention raises

several moral questions which

I have not heard raised by menbers of the academic community,

questions that I regard to be fairly essential

and critical

to the life and freedom of

a university; questions relating

to the freedom to teach and the

right to learn; questions

involving the development of academic freedom in America.

The interdependence between the university's upper division

evening program in Anchorage and the military complex here

is not necessarily. a bad thing. But interdependence often

results in a degree of comfort which lulls good people into

doing st this the he say sAnchenge on as tosam,

administrator of

who lives in "on-base" quarters,

responded to the request of

military authorities to transfer Matilde Miles' class off-

base.

Apparently she was not acceptable

to the military

authorities for reasons which they have never made clear.

Me. Läurent accommodated these military authorities by trans-

ferring Matilde Miles' class from Orion Jr:- High School to

West High School. Most of the upper division evening instrüc-

tion is conducted on Elmendorf for the reason that most of

the students in these courses are military personnel. The

whole program began as an accommodation to the military who

Wanted to provide an acadenic "bootstrap" opportunity to

military personnel and their families.

While a large number

students in the upper division evening courses are civil-

class she told a few remaining students she could not continue

=...

-8-

CANFIDENTIA!

HE YOU'RE HOT PART OF THE SOLUTiON--YOU'RE PART OF THE PROBLI:

MW 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 68

---

## Page 69

3.1L

to teach for

a

university that would yiel

to military

intervention, and sacrifice prerogatives of academic freedom.

Mrs. Miles is probably the only person in Alaska qualified

to teach Afro-American history.

She has specialized in the

development of Black studies curriculums; developed that being

used by the state of New York in state-controlled schools.

Like many of you, she has been

active in her dissent against

the war in Viet Nam and is a prominent

member of the Peace

Movement.

She is the wife of Pvt. Joe Miles, a soldier

serving at Fort Richardson. Put. Miles has also been active

in his dissent against the war in Viet Nam,

and has been an

active proponent of the introduction of traditional American

democratic processes into the military services.

Pvt. Joe

Miles is Black. Matilde Miles is white.

Against this background, it is plain to me that this incident

cannot be dismissed as merely a flap over the inconvenient

transfer of a class from one facility to another. The Ameri-

can military establishment is the last bastion of self-

righteous institutignalized racism.

This suggests one motivation.

Matilde Miles' dissent against the war in Viet Nam suggests

another.

Whatever the motivation on the part of the military

authorities, its crude and insensitive intervention was, at.

least, characteristic, and suggests too broad a program of

social and political reform to be undertaken successfully by

any of us here in Alaska. Less understandable and character-

istic is the willingness on the part of the University to

tolerate this kind of intervention in its programs, and assault

on one of its teachers. Having started, when should this kind

of intervention stop?

Which other courses are you willing to

see proscribed from the university's on-base program?

other teachers are you willing to see characterized

through

unsupported allegations as

security risks; or otherwise unfit

to teäch in the university's oh-base program?

As a leader in the Community Action Program, it is my job to

lead the poor to acquire, through involvement in our democratic.

processes, the power to overcome corporately and individually

the problems., of poverty and to win for themselves equity,

education and opportunity.

Many with whom we work are alien-

rated, defeated people whom we must convince can function

powerfully and .effectively.in.our democratic society. For the

poor, -as for all of us, the university is a supreme symbol of

learning

and teaching authority, and of the efficacy and

opportunity of education.

: If the University of Alaska cannot

"guarantee: for itself, its students and its teachers, freedom

cto: teạch and

to learn in our American democratic society, what

chance do poor people have for equity?

But, I do not believe that you are powerless. I believe that

the

university is strong enough to protect its academic freedom

and

the right of all Alaskans to teach or learn whatever,

CONFREN

-HW 55314-DocId:Э298b706. Eage 69

---

## Page 70

• 1:9.

Page three

wherever.: I believe that the university's failure in the

Matilde Miles affair grew out of a comfortable and congenial

relationship with the military that dulled the sensitivities

of some and the sensibilities of others.

I believe that care

should now be taken to see to it that damage that, has been

done is mended, and

is ended, and that this never ha

that this never happens again.

1 am

however, disturbed by the silence. from the academic community.

Perhaps, not knowing the background, the faculty of the

University of Alaska did not appreciate the significance of

the Matilde Miles incident.

I an hoping thai recognizing

it now the administration and faculty of the University of

Alaska will erect systems to assure that there will be no

repetition.

This problem is one

thât snould be attended by

the A.A.U. P..

• some

day America will

be able to deal effectively

with the attitudes that cause tha military authorities to

intervene as they did, but if we are to successfully fighi

for these reforms that are se obviously needed, we need a

strong university, and the freedoms that it strengthens and

perpetuates.

Sincerely YOUrS,

GREATER ANCHORAGE AREA

COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY

Jon

Buchholdt

Executive Director

JB:OaC: jw

CCi: Governor. Keith Miller

i Senator: Ted Stevens

p= Senator Mike Gravel

pc Congressman Howard Pollock -

Secretary of. Defense, Melvin Laird

on It.- Gen: Robert. G. Ruegg -:

gulai, Gen- Kelly B. Lemmon, JI.

ic Rear Adm. Eugene G. Fairfax

ch Maj:

Gen--Joseph-A. Cunningham

Col. Clarence H.. Mills

Bu Col: Marion Brouse-

=: =

trMto-James-F. Bemin--".

- 10

-

•S

CONFIOEITAL

•HW 55314 DocId:72989706 Page 70

---

## Page 71

it 18m

MATILDE JANE MILES

APPENDIX

SOCTALIST WORKERS PARTY

NEW YORK LOCAL

• source advised on August 25, 1960, that the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) - New York Local (NYL. was

founded. in New York City.

A second source advised on May 20, 1968, that the

SWP-IT/I was affiliated with and followed the aims of the

National SWP.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

• Executive

Order 10450.

Eas:

:

careered nestr

Senator

Congress-a-

Le:..

úe?.

==

=.

_==

Fater:

:.=--

- -= ..

:==

=====

-=.

Co..

C=2r9..23

Coi.

Marior

..

- 5:

- 11 .

CREZEWOAL

IRY 55314- DocId:32989706: Page 71..

---

## Page 72

SEE BOLDES

MATILDE JANE MILES

APPENDIX

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

A source advised on May 15, 1909, that the Young

Socialist Älliance (YSA) maintains its

National Headquarters

at 41 Union Square West,

New York, New York, and has as its

official publication the

"Young Socialist"

The YSA is the

youth organization of the Socialist workers Party (SWP) and

has been described by the SWP as the main recruiting ground

for the SWP.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

- 12* -

ww. 55314-DocId 32989706_ Paye 12

-..

---

## Page 73

Iiz Reply, Plesse Refer 1s

File No.

UNIT.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JU

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ANCHORAGE, ALASKA

April 6, 1970

ICE

Title

MATILDE JANE MILES

• Character

• Reference

SECURITY MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Memorandum at Anchorage, Alaska,

dated and captioned as above.

A11 sources (except any listed below) shose Identities

are concealed in referenced communication have turnished reliable

information in the past.

==

....

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBi. It is the property

af the FBI and is loaned to your agency; 11 and lis contents

are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

1 .

HH 55314

DocId:32989706 Page. 73

---

## Page 74

FD.263 (Rev. 12-19-67)

FEDERAL

REPORTING OFFICE

ANCHORAGE

TITLE OF CASE

MATILDE JANE MILES aka

BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

BOSTON

DATE.

1/19/71

REPORIMADE BY

CLIFTON E. MOEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/6-18/71

SM. - SWP

TYPEDDY

cch

REFERENCES

Anchorage FD-128 gated 1/7/71 captioned as above.

Anchorage letter to Bureau 10/6/70.

Anchorage letter to Bureau 4/6/70.

Report of SA RAYMOND T. JACKSON dated 10/8/69 at New York.

-RUC-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

CONVIC

AUTO.

Two copies of FD-376, one for transmittal to

•Secret Service, Washington,

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES.

SAVINGS

C NONE

RECOVÉRIES

ACQUIT-

TALS

• CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR DYES INO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIXMONTHS

DYES LINO

APPROVEO

COPIESMA

RE

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARGI

Bureau (100-449333) (Enc=2)

- (RM)

3 = Boston (100-38120) (RM)

1024

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

44 7313-24 REC 2T

51. 117

"Anchorage (100-2484)

&.

JAN. 25 1971

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

HH 55314

Dissemination Record of Attoched Report

KED, 55

2/17

SFP/LMY

DocId: 32989706 Page 74

Notations

SEC!

RS, BOHZANMEHT PRINTING OFFICE: 19700-375-139

COVER PAGE

---

## Page 75

AN 100-2484

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

T-2

File Number Where Located

AN 100-2484-68•

AN 100-2484-55.

sides deis

AN I-3

sourcer

AN 100-2484-47.

T-4

• AN: 100-2484-16

FAN 100-2484-31832

NY 134-9382A-1329,

1368

AN 100-2484-15, 25, 57

CG 4) 134-2454-784,812

_ AN

100-2484-61,70

•B

COVER PAGE

* Denotes Informants

HH 55114-DocId: 32989786

---

## Page 76

FD-305 (Rev. 3-3-70)

1. X Subject's name is included in the [ Security Index [J Agitator Index LJ Reserve Index.

X The data appearing on the [X] Security Indes Card C

] Agitator Index Card are current.

The data appearing on the Reserve Index Card DJAI

a are current

I have

been changed.

•4.

Changes on the [J Security Index Card [J Agitator Index Card are necessary.

and [ Form FD-122 C FD-397 submitted to the Bureau:

5. DJ A suitable photograph This. DJ is not available.

Date photograph was taken -

6. [ Subject is employed in a key facility and -

- is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are

7. I This report is classified Confidential

because

(state reason) it contains information from AN I-l through

the unauthorized disclosure of which could reveal

their identities and compromise their future effectiveness.

This could be injurious to the national defense.

8. X Subject previously interviewed (dates) -

not interviewed

X Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason)

it is being left to the discretion of the office of Origin

to interview the subject.

She was never previously

interviewed because of her status as a student and teacher.

9. [ This case no longer meets the [ Security Index • Agitator Index criteria and a

letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation.

10. 208 This case has been reevaluated in the light of the X Security Index J Agitator

• Index cliteria and it continues to fall within such criteria because (state reason)

the subject is a member of the Boston SWP (instant report).

11.

- ..

Xi Subject's St card is tabbed Priority I Priority IL (8) Priority I.

_ Subject's activities warrant such tabbing because (state reasons)

-C*-

COTE:

COVER PAGE

HH 55314

DooId: 32989706

Page

76

---

## Page 77

UNITe

TATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.C.

20535

In Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

Dear Sir:

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual who is believed to be

covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning Presidential pro-

tection, and to fall within the category or categories checked.

1. [ Has attempted or threatened bodily harm to any government official or employee,

• including foreign government officials residing in or planning an imminent visit to the

U.S., because of his official status.

2. [ Has attempted or threatened to redress a grievance against any public official by other

than legal means.

3. L Because of background is potentially dangerous; or has been identified as member or

participant in communist movement; or has been under active investigation as member

of other group or organization inimical to U. S.

4: U.S. citizens or residents who defect from the U. S. to countries in the Soviet or

Chinese Communist blocs and return.

5. [ Subversives, ultrarightists, racists and fascists who meet one or more of the following.

criteria:

(a) [ Evidence of emotional instability (including unstable residence and

employment record) or irrational or suicidal behavior:

(b) [ Expressions of strong or violent anti-U. S. sentiment;

(c) [ Prior acts (including arrests or convictions) or conduct or statements

indicating a propensity for violence and antipathy toward good order

and government.

6. [ Individuals involved in illegal bombing or illegal bomb-making.

Photograph (X] has been furnished J enclosed

• may be available through -

is not available

Very truly yours,

Edgar Hoove

Director

I - Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s)

U. S. Secret Service

Enclosure(s)

(Upon removal of classified enclosures, if any, this transmittal form

becomes UNCLASSIFIED.)

55314 / 00010:32989706

Page 77

---

## Page 78

FD-204 (Rev. 5-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

: CONFIDENTIAL

Copy to:

Report of:

•Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

SA CLIFTON E. MOEN

1/19/71

100-2484

MATILDE JANE MILES

• Office:

Bureau File #:

ANCHORAGE

100-449333

Character:

Synopsis:

i

SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Subject

resides at 88 Myrtle St., Waltham, Mass.

She formerly resided at 4324 Thompson Ave.,

Anchore 3876/59k sofat large member

by the SWP to be a

Washington, D. C., a list of YSA State Chairmen was

made available and disclosed subject was State

Chairman of the YSA for Alaska.

Subject was a

visitor at SWP-NYL meeting in June, 1970 and she

atténded 2 SWP functions between Aug. and Dec.,

1970.

As of Nov., 1970, subject reported to be

a member of the Boston SWP.

-RUC-

....

CONFIDENTIAL

GROUP I

Excluded From

Automatic Downgrading

and Declassification

1

This document containe neither recommendations nor conclusiona of the FBI. It in tbe property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it änd its contents

are sor to be distribused outside your adency.

1 HH 55314 DocId:32989706

Page 78

---

## Page 79

AN 100-2484

DETAILS:

2210

BACKGROUND

?.1

A.

Residence and Employment

Subject and her husband, JOSEPH MILES, reside at

88 Myrtle Street, Waltham, Massachusetts, where subject is

a housewife.

•

--AN T-]

-November 29, 1970

Former Residence and Employment

Subject, in June, 1970, resided at 4323 Thompsor

Avenue, Apartment

24, Anchorage,

Alaska.

She and her

husband were planning to move to the eastern part of the

United States in latter part of June, 1970, following a

discharge of her husband from the U. S. Army.

subject, her husband, and infant child departec

Anchorage, Alaska on June 20, 1970 aboard Northwest Airlines.

AN I-2.*

June 2

•, 1970 and

}=.

= July 6, 1970

Subject, in November, 1969, resided at 4323 Thompson

Avenue, Anchorage, with her husband, who was serving in the

U. S. Army. She was employed as a research analyst with the

Community Enterprise Development Corporation, 503 West

Northern Lights Boulevard, and in this position was writing a

history of the Rural Co-Operative Movement in Alaska and doing

supplemental research on the Alaskan economy. Subject

planned to continue this work through the Spring and Summer, 1970.

:::: February 24, 1970

..:?":.

Thas con-t

WH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 79

---

## Page 80

AN 100-2484

Subject was employed from September 11,

1969 to

Septenber 19, 1969 as a faculty. secretary, Alaska

Methodist

University, Anchorage:

AN T-4

September 25, 1969

II. AFFILIATION WITH THE

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE (YSA)

A characterization of the YSA

appears in the Appendix pages

attached hereto.

, Membership

On December 10, 1969, at a press conference held

by the YSA at the Ambassador Hotel, Washington, D. C., a list

of YSA State Chairmen was made available to the press.

This

list disclosed that MATILDE MILES, 4323 Thompson Avenue,

Number 24, Anchorage, Alaska, was

State Chairman of the

YSA

for Alaska.

III.

AN I-5

December -24, 1969

AFFILIATION WITH SOCIALIST

WORKERS PARTY (SWP)

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Kera

dicI

=-Executive Order_10450.

=

===_=:a

A:- Membership

====

- At a closed membership- branch meeting of

the

SWP-New York Local"(NYLi) held on- August 6, 1969 at 873

Broadway, New York City,

it was announced that the subject

was leaving New York for Alaska within a few days.

It was

also announced that she will be considered by the SWP to be

"at large" member. of the SWP in Alaska.

AN T-6

August 11, 1969

-30

WH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 80

---

## Page 81

AN 100-2484

A characterization of the SWP-NYE,

appears in the Appendix pages attached

hereto..

The subject is a transferee out of the swe-ll

to Anchorage, Alaska.

AN I-6

September 22, 1969

As of November 29, 1970, the subject and her husband

were members of the Boston SWP.

AN T-1

November 29, 1970

B.

SWP-NYL Meetings

At a closed membership branch meeting of the SWP-NYL

held on June 22, 1970 at 873 Broadway, New York City, subject

and her husband were welcomed as visitors to New York. They

reportedly had an infant son with them..

AN T-6

July 1, 1970

C.

SWP-YSA" Conference

The subject participated in an SWP-YSA Socialist

Activists and Educational Conference held between August 9

and 16, 1970 in Chicago, Illinois.

AN I-7

August 25, 1970

D.

National Peace Action Coalition

(NPAC)

A characterization of the NAC appears

in the Appendix pages attached hereto.

ww 55314, DocId:32989706

Page 81

---

## Page 82

AN 100-2484

•The subject panticipated in a NPAC conierence

held between December 4 and 6, 1970 in Chicago, Illinois.

.AN T-T

December 8, 1970

1W .55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 82

---

## Page 83

AN. 100-2484

APPENDIX

YOUNG SOCIALIST ALLIANCE

A source advised on May 14, 1970 that the Young

Socialist Alliance (YSA). maintains its national headquarters

at 41 Union Square West, New York, New York, and has as its.

official publication "The Young Socialist Organizer" (YSO).

The YSA is the youth organization of the Socialist Workers

Party (SWP) and serves as the main source of recruitment

into the SWP.

According to the masthead of the "yso" dated

April 29, 1970, the YSA is described as "A multi-national

revolutionary socialist youth organization.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450.

-6

NH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 83

---

## Page 84

AN 100-2484

APPENDIX

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

NEW YORK LOCAL

A source advised on August 25, 1960, that the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP) - New

York Local (NYL) was

founded in New York City.

A second

source adyised on May 20, 1968, that the

SWP-NYL was affiliated with and followed the aims of the

National SHP.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to

Executive Order 10450:

HH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 84

---

## Page 85

CONFIDENTIAI

AN 100-2484

APPENDIX

NATIONAL PEACE ACTION COALITION

(NPAC)

On October 7, 1970, a source made available a copy

of "An Open Letter to All College Students" from the National

Peace Action Coalition (NAC) dated October 6, 1970, which

self-described the NPAC as an umbrella organization formed

at the Student Mobilization Committee National Emergency

Conference Against Cambadia-Laos-Viet Nam War held at

cleveland, Ohio, on June 19-21, 1970, to unite all antiwar

forces in

the struggle to immediately end United States

involvement in Southeast Asia.

One aim of the NAC is to

gain the support of labor forces.

NPAC Headquarters is located at 2102 Euclid Avenue,

Cleveland, Ohio, with branch offices located

l. in major

United States cities.

a copy of a

coalitions, "'aper entitled "Organizing Local Peace Action

A second source, on October 11; 1970, made available

published by the NPAC, 2102 Euclid Avenue,

The paper states that the basic objective of the

IPAC is th involve rasses of people, including labor unions,

GIs, and the black community, in the struggle to end United

States intervention in Indochina through orderly and peaceful

tactics.

These tactics include building mass demonstrations

and national conferences, distributing leaflets, selling

literature, organizing forums and fund-raising activities, and

testifying at state legislature hearings.

A third source, on September 1, 1970, advised the

NPAC was formed and made operational by members of the

Socialist Workers Party (SWP). The NPAC is heavily influenced

• by SWP leadership nationally and is a recruiting ground for this

organization.

The SWP has been designated by the

Attorney General of the United States

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

CONFIDENTIAL

-8*-

WW 55314 DocId: 32989706 • Page 85

---

## Page 86

In Reply, Please Refer 10

title No.

UN.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF

• FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

TICE

Anchorage, Alaska

January 19, 1971

Title

MATILDE JANE MILES

character

Reference

SECURITY MATTER:-

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Report. of Special Agent

Clifton E. Moen dated

January 19, 1971 at Anchorage

and captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

infomnation In the past.

This document containa nelther recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and lis contents are not to be distributed ouisido

your agency.

(TH 55314 DocId: 32989706

Page 86

---

## Page 87

ando

KI®•

siT.

A.

S

F

2/2/71

Gray

(TS)

Phillips

SAC, Anchorage

(100-2184)

Director, raI

(100-419333)

REC-135

MATILDE JAIL MILES

38 - 155

BeAtrap Of SA CIliton E. Moon 1/19/71.

No indication 1n zoroy that lt 1s to be disseuinated

locally I0 Secret Gorvice by D5.

So insure this is doze.

Attention of AN is drawn to folloving shortconings

1n the FacT Legoonying sorce. Under item 1, the option

boz preceding

"Security Index" saould nave contalied an '."

Inder Item 5,

iailure to indicato cata photograph was taken.

Under Lieu,

it is siated that the report is classilied

"Confidontial" bocause it concains intomation fron I-1 through

the unauthorized disclosure of which could reveal thie

Identitios and compacuise tacir tuture extectiveness, which

could be injurious to the nacionas defense.

This does not

appose to tre porcau to Le applicable so 2-2, 3 and 4 who are,

respectivey, oner of an apartment buildlar.

official of a

college and

businass nanager of a

university

2 - Boston (100-33120)

SFP: luJ

it (7) pr

NOTE:

Subject is on Security Index, Priority III.

Tolson

Sullivan

Afohr

Bishop

Brennan. (C.D).

Proper

Fill -

Kelse'st

Tilled.

Walters

Sudars

Tole. Room

FAILED 22

F28-61071

C03*4591

HH 55314 . DooId:32989706

Page 81

---

## Page 88

A.

S.

W. Gray (IS)

F.

Phillips

W

Sae, Anchorage, (100-2154)

Director, FBI (100-449323)

HATIZUS JANE MILES

SM - SHP

4/6/71

10/10/21.

1-1-8313.2

BeAN FD-123 1/7/71 changing origin to BS.

It was iniented that a security flash notice had

been plaued in tha Durgau's Identification Division.

records ot the Identifibation Division tail to coutain any

recore of the placing of a security ilash notice.

A checks of

A's filos will linoly rove that eithar no elicit wis eyei

made to place such a flash notice or, i1 effort was made by

use of an FD-105, it was returned to Ait with advice that

flasa was not placed lecause fingerprints of subject were not

found 12 the Identification DivIsion.

Recipiéais should appropriately note in their files

the above. At should insure that in the juture ID 123s are

executed accurately.

BS, In its further investigation of subject, should

bo alert for the availability of fingerprints which will enable

you to tale ancopriate action to piaca a flish notice. alão,

subjectig empiorant was indicated as unknown when origia was

changed. Lu should continue eiforis to ascertain empioinent

and thereafter subnit FD-122.

2 - Boston

REC 78100-449333-25

(100-38120)

suin

SFP: 1mj

(87)

іїї

NOTE:

705.

Subject is on Security Index,

fICa

Priority III.

Idontifloation Division raceived 4/2/71

In Internal

Advice

APR 6 - 1971

FBI

0, son

dlivas

палло. С.D.

allahas.

sibey

alt.

alo

wel

allets

4H-55311 DUATHRODIE

---

## Page 89

OM 10VAL FORM NO, 10

FRAY TART'EDITION.

'SA FOME (11 CYR) 199-11.8

• UNITED STATES GO

MENT

Memorandum,

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449333)

son one, soros 200-38480 faues

SUBJECT:

MATILDE JANE MILES,

aka

Matilde Zimmerman

SM - SWP

DATE: 1/30/73

12173

Re san Diego letter, 11/27/72; Boston

FI-128, dated 1/30/73.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are five

copies of an IHM re captioned subjeat; two copies are

enclosed for san Diego as Office of Origin; one copy

1s being disseminated" locally to Secret Service.

ACMINISTRATIVE

The sources used in the LiM are:

BS T-1

BS

.I-2

Informant

BS T-3

Symbol.

. BS 1-4

It is noted that subject was formerly Included

in Category III of ADEX.

A current recommendation for

subject's inclusion in the ADEX 1s being left to the

discretion of san Diego as new Office of Origin.

12

5230%2-4/132:-33

- Bureau (Enc:

2

= Ros Dieso (100-16964) (Enc- 2) (EM)

•BOston

RMK/1m

(5)

(Zec) Respit; (lee) 5S

2/13/73

20 FEB S 1973

AạCH

4

DocId: 32

Fs766 Splayings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 90

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNI

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JA

FEDERAL BUREAU ÖF INVESTIGATION

ICE

WASHINCION, D.G. 20535

Januäry 30, 1973

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

RE:

MATILDE JANE MILES

Dear Sir:

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual or organization believed

to be covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning protective

responsibilities, and to fall within the category or categories checked.

1. L Threats or actions agalrist persons protected by Secret. Service.

.2.

3.

Attempts or threats to redress grievances.

Threatening or abusive statement about U. S. or foreign official.

4. • Participation in civil disturbances, anti-U. S. demonstrations or hostile.

incidents against foreign diplomatic establishments.

•5. [ Illegal bombing, bomb-making or other terrorist activity.

6. [] Defector from U. S. or indicates desire to defect.

7. CX Potentially dangerous because of background, emotional instability or

activity in groups engaged in activities inimical to U. S:

Photograph X has been furnished

enclosed

• is not available.

Very terly yours,

'tatuck fray...

L. Patrick Gray,

Acting Director

1 - Special Agent in Charge (Enciosure(s))

(RM)

U.S. Secret Service, Cambridge,

Mass.

• Enclosure(s)

WW 55314 DocId: 32989706. • Page 90

---

## Page 91

' In Reply, Please Rejer 10

File No.

UNIT

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JI

TICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Boston, Massachusetts

January 30, 1973

MATILDE JANE MILES,

also known as

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN

I.

BACKGROUND

BS I-I advised on August 31, 1972, that Matilde

Zimmerman arrived at san Liego, calliornia,

and since

that date has been attending meetings of the san Diego

Branch - Socialist Workers Party (SDB-SWP) and is the

organizer of this branch.

The SWP has been designated pursuant

-to Executive Order 10450.

BS T-1 further advised subject presently resides.

at 49032 51st Street, San Diego, California.

• On November 21, 1972, Mr. Herb Padro, Project

Engineer, L'Mer Engineering Company, San Diego, California,

advised as follows:

Matilde Zimmerman was employed as a secretary-

typist for this company Irom September 4, 1972 to November

8, 1972, and was discharged on the latter date. Accord-

1ng to padro, Zimmerman was a trouble maker and caused a

great deal of dissention among the other, employees.

Zimmerman was not satisfied with the wages she was get-

ting nor the fringe benefits and made her feelings known

to other employees in the company, causing them to feel

that they tỏo were not getting just compensation.

According to Padro, no formal application was

filled out by Zimmerman, however, she stated that she

california,

teacher who teaches in a private progressive school in

Jos Angeles.

100-4413

**33

WH. 55311 ;DocId:32989706. Paye 91

---

## Page 92

MATILDE JANE MILES,

8180 known as

MATILDE ZIMMERMAN

While employed, Zimmerman also Indicated

that she was reared in the Philippines and mentioned

that her parents were either. in the military service

or were stationed there on a diplomatic mission.

II. ACTIVITIES

During the period September 20, 1970, through

December 15, 1971, Matilde Miles attended 25 regular

business meetings

on the c

of the SWP - Boston (SHP-B), all of

which were held at SWP-B headquarters, 295 Huntington

Avenue, Boston, 'Massachusetts.

At an SWP-B meeting

held on September 21,:1971, Miles was elected a member.

of the SWP-B. Executive Committee.. At an SWP-B meeting

neld on November 9, 1911, Miles was placed in charge o1.

abortion activities for the Branch.

BS 1-2

October 21, 1970 -

December 19, 1971

Matilde Miles attended the Young Socialist

Alliance

(YSA) National Convention at New York City,

December 27 through 31, 1970.

As the youth organization of the SWP,

the YSA serves as the main source of recruit-

ment into that organization.

The YSA is

described in the masthead of its official

publication,

"The Young Socialist Organizer",

as a multinational revolutionary socialist

Jouth organization. "

BS T-3

December 31, 1970

BS I-44

January T, 1971.

This docurent contains neither

reconsendations nor conclusions of

the Bi. I: 1-

the int God:: 109-1 t0 5-25 200367;

1t and 1'3 .::t

12

distribute canis yeur agray.

2%

N 55314 Docid: 329$9706 Page 92'

---

## Page 93

IZTZ72)

In Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

UNITE

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Boston,

Massachusetts 02203

January 30, 1973

Title

MATILLE JANE MILES

Character

Reference

Boston memorandum, dated

and captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed

in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

agency.

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

•-H 55314 DocId 32989706

Page 93

---

## Page 94

FD-366 (Rev. 2-13-69)

UNIT

In Reply, Please Refer 80

File No.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

Boston, Massachusetts

January 30, 1973

SUBJECT:

MATILDE JANE MILES

CHARACTER: SECURITY MATTER - SOCIALIST WORKERS. PARTY

REFERENCE:

Referenced communication contained subject's residence and/or employment

ody spe A recent change has been determined and is being set forth below change

"!

Residence:

4903đ 51st Street

san Diego, California

.

Employment:

Unknown

. *

:

ectoss

2/13/13

HH 55314

100-449333-33

his document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. it is the property of the FBI a

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agenc

DocId: 32989706 Page

: 94

ENCLOSURE

---

## Page 95

=.

-O'S (ric%. 1-7-72)

FEDERAL UREAU OF INVE GATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN DIEGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGINA

SAN: DIEGO

MATILDE JANE

MILES, aka

Matilde Zimmerman,

Matilde Zimmermann,

MIS. Joseph Darryl Miles

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/30/73

5/2/73

REPORT MADE BY

SA ARNOLD W. O'BRIEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

SM - SWP

TYPED BY

slf

REFERENCE:

San Diego letter to Bureau dated 4/6/73;

Bureau letter to San Diego: dated 4/12/73.

LEADS

SAN DIEGO

Will await approval of FD-122 recommending subject

be included on the ADEX of the San Diego Office and close

administratively.

CONVIC.

APPROVED

COPIESMADE:

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

_I NONE

RECOVERIES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (100-449333) (RM)

U.S. Secret Service,

San

Diego

(RM)

2 - San Diego

1100-16964) P

HE HI

100

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES EJNO

DYES DINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

-37

REC-55

23 MAY 9 • 1973

3 1,13

Natations

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

RIC(2) 55(1)

Loquest Reud.

DAAY 1 7 1973

Date Fwd.

5/17/73

014 л

COVER PAGE

HH 55314 DocId: 32989706

Page

95

---

## Page 96

SD

100-16964

INFORMANTS

SOURCE OF INFORMATION

SD T-1:is

.o..

* *:

...

Informant

Symbol

FILE NUMBER WHERE LOCATED

Instant report and SD 134-609-1334,

1336, 1341, 1347,

1351, 1355,

1357,

1358,

1360, 1361,

1364,

1362,

1371, 1375,

1379, 1381,

1384,

1385,

1387,

1390, 1393-

1395,

1398, 1399,

1401-1403,

1408,

1412, 1422,

1426, 1434, 1437,

1423, 1425,

1438, 1443,

1444, 1452, 1456, 1458, 1460,

1462, 1471, 1472.

SD 134-440A, 466, 469

SD

134-1078-11, 21, 25, 33, 50, 57,

72, 75, 77, 86.

:,SD 134-1086-14, 15, 22, 24, 27, 32

SI 134-600A-43

SD. 100-16964-140

SD T-2 is

SD T-3 is:

SD T-4 is

SD T-5 is

SD T-6 is

ADMINISTRATIVE

Dissemination is being made locally to U. S. Secret

Service.

Two copies of an FD-376 are stapled to the Bureau

copies of this report.

• B.

COVER PAGE

i

-HH

55314

DocId: 32989706

Page

96

---

## Page 97

•ND-3

• Rev. 10-5-72)

1.

*& Subject's name is included in the ADEX.

The data appearing on the ADEX Card are current.

*X Changes on the ADEX Card are necessary and Fonn FD-122 submitted to the Bureau.

8& A suitable photograph xX] is

• is not available.

Date photograph was taken -

MaY, 1969

5.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

- is charged with

security responsibility. Interested agencies are

6.

This report is classified

(state reason)

because

7. [ Subject previously interviewed (dates) -

53 Subject was not Ex interviewed reinterviewed because (state reason)

of her leadership position in the SDB-SWP it' is not felt that

any advantage would be gained through such an interview and

she does not possess any informant potential.

8. [ This case no longer meets the ADEX criteria and an FD-122 with succinct summary, has

been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation.

9. 8tx This case has been reevaluated in the light of the ADEX criteria and it continues to fall

within tie criteria because (state reason)

of subject' se leadership position in the SDB-SWP..

10. g6x] Security Flash Notice (FD-165) to Identification Division:

88] Submitted Unknown

Placed XX, Yes

[No

by Anchorage 'fice.

11: [7 Subject is Extremist in ADEX and Stop Notice has been placed with the Bureau Stop Index.

-c* -

COVER PAGE

1H 55314 boeId: 32989706 Page 97

-

---

## Page 98

-376 (Rev. 8-15-72)

UNe. ED STATES DEPARTMENT, OF JLUTIGE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INYESTIGATION

1973

20535

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

RE:

MATILDE JANE MILES

SECURITY MATTER -

Dear Sir:

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual or organization believed

to be covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning protective

responsibilities, and to fall within the category or categories checked.

1. L Threats or actions against persons protected by Secret Service.

2. [ Attempts or threats to redress grievances.

3. [ Threatening or abusive statement about U. S. or foreign official.

:. [ Participation in civil disturbances, anti-U.S. demonstrations or hostile

incidents against foreign diplomatic establishments

5. [ Illegal bombing, bomb-making or other terrorist activity:

6. L Defector from U. S. or indicates desire to defect.

T. a Potentially dangerous because of background, emotional instability or

activity in groups engaged in activities inimical to U. S.

Photograph XX has been furnished

enclosed '

] is not available.

vary trys/yours,

tuck

L. Patrick Gray,

Gary in

Acting Director

1 - Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s)) (1) (Registered Mail)

U. S. Secret Service , San Diego

Enclosure(s)

so..

CT1.32989706

Page 98

---

## Page 99

$D.204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNI fED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTiCE

: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Dale:

Field Office File #:

Title:

6.

- United States

Secret Service, San Diego

(Registered Mail)

ARNOLD W. O'BRIEN

Office:

SAN DIEGO

May 2, 1973

San Diego 100-16964

MATILDE JANE MILES

Bureau File #:

100-449333

Character:

SECURITY MATTER I

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Synopsis:

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN (also known as Matilde Jane Miles) resides at

4763 Auburn Street, San Diego, California, and is employed by

Appellate Defenders, Inc. ZINMERMANN attended regular business

meetings of the San Diego Branch - Socialist Workers Party

(SDB-SWP): from 9/7/72, to 4/16/73. ZIMMERMANN is the Organizer,

SDB-SWP, and is: a member of the Executive Committee.

SWP and

related

activities set forth..

- P -

DETAILS:

Apaa.

Sources in San Diego know subject as MATILDE ZIMMERMANN,

only, and are not aware that she is also known as MATILDE JANE

MILES.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It in the property of the FBI and is loened to your agency; it and its contents

xe not to be distribured outside your agency.

HH 55314 DooId:32989706

Page

99

U. I. COVERNMENT

PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 0-105-880

---

## Page 100

SD

100-16964

I.

BACKGROUND

в.

Residence

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN is presently residing at

4763 Auburn Street, San Diego, California.

(SD T-1, April 30, 1973)

B.

Employment

MATILDE ZIMIERMANN is employed by Appellate Defenders,

Incorporated, with,offices at the University of San Diego (USD) .

San Diego, California.

SOURCE

March 16, 1973)

II.

CONNECTIONS WITH SAN DIEGO BRANCH-SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

_(SDB-SWP) , AND RELATED ACTIVITIES

The SDB-SWP has been in existence in San

Diego, California, since 1959, and is a

local

branch of the National SWP and has

identical aims and purposes.

The SW has

been designated pursuant to

• Executive Order 10450.

A meeting of the SDB-SWP was held at the apartment of

HELEN HOLLANDER, SDB-SWP member, 4273 47th Street, San Diego,

California.

During this meeting HELEN HOLLANDER announced that

a MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was transferring to San Diego soon.

(SD T-1, August 15, 1972)

On August 23, 1972, HELEN HOLLANDER stated that while

at the Socialist Activist and Educational Conference held

recently at Oberlin, Ohio, she had occasion to talk to MATILDE

ZIMMERMANN regarding comrades transferring in to San Diego. She

-2-

HW 55314

.... DocId: 32989706 •Page 100

13

---

## Page 101

SD 100-16964

stated that it looks like MATILDE ZINMERHANN will be the new

Organizer of SDB-SWP•

(SD T-1; August 23, 1972)

An informal meeting of the SDB-SWP was held at the

apartment of SDB-SWP members DENNIS GEORGE SCARLA and BONNIE

JO APTEKER, 6545 Montezuma Road, San Diego, California. The

purpose of

the meeting

was to meet new comrades transferred

into San Diego area to rejuvenate the SDB-SWP and the San Diego

Branch - Young Socialist Alliance (SDB-YSA) • In attendance at

this meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

-(SD T-1, August 31, 1972)

(SD I-?, September 5, 1972)

The San Diego Branch - Young Socialist

Alliance (SDB-ÝSA) was organized by San

Diego college students in 1968 and is

a youth organization of the Socialist

Workers Party (SWP) •

MATILDE ZIMMEPMANN was in attendance at the following

regular business meetings of the SDB-SWP. Dates of meetings

indicated with an asterisk reflect ZIMMERMANN

gave the Executive

Committee report at these meetings:.

DATE OF MEETING

SOURCE

September

7,

1972

September 14, 1972*

September 20, 1972*

September 27, 1972*

October 4, 1972*

October 11, 1972*

October 19, 1972

SD T-I,

September 8, 1972:

• SD T-2, October 13, 1972

SD T-1, September 14, 1972

SD T-I, September 21, 1972

SD T-I, September 29, 1972

SD T-1, October 5, 1972

SD T-1, October 12, 1972

SD T-3, October 24, 1972

1H 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 101

---

## Page 102

SD 100-16964

DATE OF MEETING

October 25, 1972%

November 1, 1972*

November 8, 1972*

November 15,. 1972*

November 30, 1972*

December 6, 1972

December 13, 1972

December 20, 1972*

December 27, 1972*

January 3, 1973*

January 9, 1973*

January 17, 1973*

January 24, 1973

January 31, 1973*

February 7, 1973*

February 14, 1973*

February 21, 1973*

=====

February 28, 1973*

March 7, 1973*

i=:=

March 14, 1973*

March 19, 1973*

SOURCE

SD T-1, October 26, 1972

SD T-I, November 2, 1972

SD I-1, November 9, 1972

SD T-1, November 16, 1972

SD T-1, December

4

1972

SD T-2,

December

7,

1972

SD T-1, December 7, 1972

SD T-1, January 10, 1973

SD T-1, January 10, 1973

SD .T-1, January 10, 1973

SD T-1, January 10, 1973

SD I-1, January 10, 1973

SD T-1, January 10, 1973

SD T-1, January 25, 1973

SD I-1, February 2, 1973

"SD T-1, February 8, 1973

SD T-1, February 16, 1973

SD T-1, February

22, 1973

SD I-2, March 8, 1973

SD I-1, March 1, 1973

SD T-1, March 8, 1973 .

SD I-1, March 15, 1973

SD T-1, March 20, 1973

...

WW 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 102.

---

## Page 103

SD 100-16964

DATE OF MEETING

SOURCE

March 26, 1973*

SD T-1; March 27, 1973

April 2, 1973*

SD T-1, April 3, 1973

April 9e 1973*

SD I-1, April 10, 1973

April 16, 1973*

SD T-1, April 17, 1973

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held September 7,

1972, a temporary Executive Committee was set up and listed

on this temporary committee was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-1, September 8, 1972)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held September 14,

1972, it was announced

that MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was the new

Organizer, SDB-SWP.

(SD I~1, September 14, 1972)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held September 27,

1972, MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the Educational Report.

(SD T-], September 29, 1972)

A public meeting sponsored by the SDB-SWP was held

at Aztec Center, San Diego State University ($DSU), San Diego,

California, September 28, 1972. The purpose, of the public

meeting was to hear a speech by LINDA JENNESS, the SWP

Presidential candidate.

Appearing at this speech was MATILDE

ZIMMERMANN.

(SD I-1, September 29, 1972)

C:1, *"GEOFF

A speech, sponsored by the SDB-YSA, was given by

MIRELOWITZ at Aztec Center, SDSU, San Diego, California,

September 21, 1972. MIRELOWITZ was introduced to the audience

as "a member of the SWP Campaign Comnittee. Attending this

speech was MATILdE ZIMMERMANN.

......

(SD T-3, October 2, 1972)

|: NH 55311 DocId: 32989706

Page 103

---

## Page 104

SD 100-16964

Source advised that as of October 2, 1972,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was paying a $15 weekly sustainer

to the SDE-SWP.

(SD T-1, October 5, 1972)

A literature and subscription drive, sponsored

by the SDB-YSA and SDB.-SWP, was held in conjunction with

speech given by CESAR CHAVEZ; official, United. Farm Workers

Union, which was held at Aztec Center, SDSU, October 7, 1972.

The purpose of this literature and subscription drive was to

sell YSA and SWP literature to the Chicano group attending

the speech. Among those in attendance was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD-T-3, October 10, 1972)

Source furnished a list of SDB-SWP and SDB-YSA

members as of October 11, 1972.

Appearing on this list was

the name MATILDE, telephone number 287-0787.

'ir (SD I-1, October 12, 1972)

A literature sales intervention was sponsored by

the SDB-YSA and SDB-SWP at Balboa Park during a speech by

Senator GEORGE LIC GOVERN. Attending this literature sales

intervention was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-3, October 16; 1972):

"At the meeting of the SDB-SWP. held October 25, 1972,

it was announced during the Executive Committee report that

a new Executive Committee had been elected and included as a

member was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-1, October 26, 1972)

A speech sponsored by the SDB-YSA was held at Aztec

Center,.. SDSU, October 26, 1972.

The scheduled speaker was

LAURA. MOORHEAD, SWP candidate for the 31st Senatorial District,

Los Angeles, California.

It was

announced that she had taken

ill and she was replaced by SAIM KOLIS, SDB-YSA member •

The

title of her speech was "Women in Politics". Attending this

speech was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-3, October 30, 1972)

-6-

HY 55314 DocId:32989706. Page 104

---

## Page 105

SD

100-16964

A public meeting sponsored by the SDB-SWP was held

at Aztec Center, SDSU, San Diego, California, October 21, 1973.

The purpose of

the meeting was to hear PETER, BUCH who spoke on

"McGovern, the Mideast, and Palestinian Revolution". He was

introduced by MATILDE ZIMMERMANN as a member of the socialist

Workers Party and a founding member of the Young Socialist

Alliance.

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN stated that BUCh was on a

national speaking tour of the United States and Canada.

(SD I-1, October 30, 1972)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held November 1, 19,72,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the anti-war report.

• (SD T-1, November 2, 1972)

A debate, sponsored by the SDB-SWP, between

S.1i4 RICHARD CASTRO, a MC GOVERN supporter, and ANDREW PULLEY,

the SWP Vice-Presidential candidate, was held at Aztec Center,

SDSU, San Diego, California, November 2, 1972. Appearing at

this debate was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD I-I, November 6, 1972)

(SD T-3, November 6, 1972)

As of November 3, 1972, the weekly sustainer being

paid by MATILDE ZIMMERMANN

was $15 per week to the SDB-SWP.

(SD T-1, November 7, 1972)

"On November 9, 1972, a meeting of the Student

held at Aztec Center, SDSU, San Diego, California.

purpose of the meeting was to plan an anti-Vietnam War

demonstration to be sponsored by SMC on November 18, 1972.

Appearing at this meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-3, November 13, 1972)

The Student Mobilization Committee to

End the War in Vietnam (SMC) is controlled

by the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) and

its youth affiliate, Young Socialist

Alliance.

SMC initiates and supports

public demonstrations against the war in

Southeast Asia.

-7-

HW 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 105

---

## Page 106

SD',100-16964

At the meeting

:.1972, MATILDE ZIMMERMANN

of the SDB-SWP held November 15,

gave the Anti-War Report,

(SD T-I, November 16, 1972)

On November 18, 1972, an anti-Vietnam War march

and

rally, sponsored by SMC, was held in the vicinity of SDSU,

San

Diego, California.

Attending this anti-Vietnam War march

and rally was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

As of November 30, 1972,

the

weekly sustainer being paid by MATILDE ZIMMERMANN

was .$10

a week to the SDB-SWP

- (SD T-I, December 4, 1972)

A meeting of the SDB-YSA was held at Aztec Center,

SDSU, San Diego, California, December 3, 1972. Appearing at

this meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

" (SD I-3, December 4, 1972)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held December 6, 1972,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the Organizer's report.

(SD T-1, December 7, 1972)

An Educational, sponsored by the SDB-SWP, was held

at Aztec Center, SDSU, San Diego, California, December 6, 1972.

aliT KIM ALLEN, SDB-SWP member, gave the Educational. He spoke on

"The Transitional Program" of the SWP. Attending this Educational

WaS MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD I-3, December 7, 1972)

A meeting of the;SDB-YSA was held at 4933 Loris

Street, San Diego, California.

The purpose of this meeting

was to vote on resolutions and to elect its delegates to the

YSA National Convention at Cleveland, Ohio, November 23-26, •

1972. Appearing at this meeting was

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-4, December 6, 1972)

A meeting of the SDB-YSA was held at Aztec Center,

SDSU, San Diego, California, December 3, 1972. Appearing at

this meeting was: MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

E.w...

(SD T-4, December 6, 1972)

-8-

HH-55314 . DodId: 32989706 Page 106

---

## Page 107

SD 100-16964

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at Aztec Center,

SDSU, San Diego, California, December 13, 1972,

new assign-

ments for comrades were announced and included

in this

assignment was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN, Organizer.

(SD I-1, January 10, 1973)

• $

MATILDE ZIMMERMON was in attendance at the Young

Socialist Alliance National Convention held at Cleveland,

Ohio, from November 22, to November 26, 1972.

(SD T-5, November, 1972)

On December 16, 1972, various members of the YSA

...Southwestern Region held

a party at 4933 Loris Street, San

Diego, California. In attendance. at this party was MATILDE

ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-4, December 20, 1972)

•A sales committee meeting of the SDB-YSA was held

at 6545 Montezuma Road, Apartment 30, San Diego, California,

i December 19, 1972. In attendance at this meeting was MATILDE

ZIMMERMANN •

(SD T-3, January 12, 1973)

An Educational, sponsored by the SDB-SWP, was held

at Aztec Center; SDSU, San Diego; California, December 20,

19.72.

The title of the Educational was "The Structure and

Organizational Principles of the Party". Attending this

Educational was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-4, January 11, 1973)

. A planning meeting was held at 2143 Market Street,

San Diego, California, January 1, 1973.

The purpose of the

meeting was to plan an anti-Vietnam demonstration for either

ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-1, January 10, 1973)

og-

HH 55314 DooId:32989706

Page 107

---

## Page 108

SD 100-16964

• sales meeting of the SDB-YSA was held at Aztec

Center,

SDSU, San Diego, California, January 14, 1973.

Attending this sales meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD I-4, January 15, 1973)

Source furnished à San Diego telephone list of

all SWP: and YSA members.:

The name of MATILDE, telephone

number 283-1498, appeared on this list.

(SD T-1, January 19, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held on January 24,

1973, nominations were made for the Executive Committee.

The

name of MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was one of those nominated.

(SD T-1, January 25, 1973)

A meeting sponsored by the SDB-SWP was held at

Aztec Center, SDSU, San Diego, California, January 24, 1973.

The purpose of this meeting was to discuss the upcoming SWP

campaign in which the SWP decided to run LESLIE ORK for the

38th Senatorial District, State of California. Attending this

meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-4, January 26, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held January 31, 1973,

the Executive Committee Report indicated who had won the

Executive Committee elections. Listed as one of the winners.

WaS MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD I-1, February 2, 1973)

A photograph of MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was displayed to

source on February 22, 1973, and source identified the photo-

"graph as being identical with MATILDE ZIMMERMANN, SDB-SWP

member.

(SD I-1, February 22, 1973)

Source furnished a San Diego telephone List of SDB-SWE

and SDB-YSA members.

Appearing on this list was the name

MATILDE, 283-1498.

(SD T-1, February 22, 1973)

-10-

WW 55314 DocId:32989706 ' Page 108

---

## Page 109

SD: 100-16964

A Forum sponsored by the SDB-SWP was held at

Aztec Center, SDSU, February 16, 1973.

The purpose of

the Forum was to hear a speech by MORRIS STARSKY, LOS

Angeles Local - Socialist Workers Party (LAL-SWP) member.

Appearing at this Forum was MATILDE. ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-1, February 22, 1973)

The LAL-SWP has been in existence since

•the 1930s.

The LAI-SWP is a local branch

of the SWP which has been designated

pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

Source furnished a schedule entitled "Bookstore Staffing

Schedule" in which this schedule set out duties for individuals

at the SWP bookstoré, 5617 El Cajon Boulevard.

This schedule

indicated MATILDE ZIMMERMANN was on duty Monday through Friday,

from 9:00 a.M.

to 12:00 noon.

•(SD T-1, February 22, 1973)

A meeting of the Forum Committee, SDB-SWP, was held

at 4427 Estrella, San Diego, California.

Appearing

at this

Forum Committee meeting was

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-1, March 1, 1973)

It was announced during the Execütive Committee

report that MATILDE ZIMMERMANN would give a three-part

Educational. These would be given before the Branch meetings:

(SD T-1, March 1, 1973)

A Forum sponsored by the SDB-SWP was held at Aztec

Center, SDSU, San Diego, falifornia, March 9, 1973. The

purpose of the Forum was to hear a speech by SYDiSTAPELTON, 'i lit

introduced as a political activist at University a California

at Berkeley, and a leader in the anti-war movement: ZIMMERMANN

was-at this

Forum.

(SD T-1, March 17, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held on March 14, 1973,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the Educational report. She advised

that-she would give a history of the Fourth International, a

four-part Educational, and it would start the following Monday•

(SD T-1, March 15, 1973)

-11-

NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 109

---

## Page 110

÷%.

SD 100-16964

Source advised the SVP has recently created

National Speakers: Bureau under the name "Viewpoint". SALM

KOLIS, SDB-SHP member, sent out a letter to various campuses

in which she described "Viewpoint"

', stating it is a National

Speakers Bureau designed to bring

to the campuses people who

are active in and informed about the movements for social

change in the world today.

enclosed was a leaflet

describing MATILDE ZIMMERMANN as a possible speaker.

MATILDE

ZIMMERMANN

described as

"Miss Zimmermann has a Doctorate

in African Studies and has lived in Africa.

She is a

professor of, African History, ALrO-American History,

and the

History of Women:

She has been active in the women's movement

since its inception and is the former national coordinator of

the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition (WONAC) • WONAC

was one of the organizations instrumental in bringing the

Georgia and Texas abortion cases to the Supreme Court.

Zimmermann's speakers fee is $350.00:

She is prepared to speak

on the following topics: (1) Women in the Algerian and Cuban

Revolutions (2) Victories of the Women's Movement - Sufferage

and Abortion - How They Were Won' (3) Pan Africanism and the

Black Liberation Movement."

This leaflet stated Miss ZIMMERMANN

*is available to "Viewpoint" - Speakers for Radical Change,

5617 El Cajon, San Diego, 92115, telephone number 582-3352.

(SD T-I, March 15, 1973)

Prior to the SDB-SWP meeting on March 19, 1973,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the first of a four-part history on

"The Fourth International". :

(SD T-1, March 20, 1973)

During March, MATILDE ZIMMERMANN made arrangements

to rent office space for the SHP at 4635 El Cajon Boulevard.

She offered to pay $215 a month on a two-year lease.. ZIMMER-

MANN indicated the SWP would move into the new headquarters by

April 17, 1973:

(SD I-6, March 29, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWe held March 26, 1973,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the Forum report.

(SD I-1, March 27, 1973)

-12-

55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 110

---

## Page 111

SD• 100-16964

Part:

Before the meeting of the SDB-SWP held April 2

1973, MATILDE ZIMMERMANN gave the last part of an Educational

series on "History of the Fourth International".

the go th

(SD T-1, April 3, 1973)

A meeting of the Headquarters

SDE-SWP. was held at 4635 El Cajon Boulevara, ten Diegoe

california. Attending, this meeting was MATILDE ZIMMERMANN.

(SD T-I, April 10, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held on April 9, 1973,

MATILDE ZIMMERMANN announced that she would be in san Francisco,.

•California, April I4, 1973, to give a speech.

(SD J-1, April 10, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held April 16, 1973,

the Executive Committee report was given by MATILDE ZIMMERMANN..

Among other things she advised that she would attend the

Socialist Workers Party Plenum in New York City from April 21,

through April 30, 1973. She advised that HOLBROOK MAHN, SDB-SWP

member, would be the temporary Organizer of the SDB-SWP in her

absence.

•(SD T-I, April 17, 1973)

A meeting of the Forum Committee, SDB-SWP, was held

at 4635 El Cajon Boulevard, San Diego, California.

MATILDE

ZIMMERMANy called this meeting to announce that a speaker or

speakers had become available to talk to SWP members concerning

the Wounded Knee incident. MATILDE ZIMMERMANN attended this

meeting.

(SD T-1, April 24, 1973)

-13*-

55314

DocId: 32989706

Page 111

---

## Page 112

FD. 323(186. 12-12-72)

UN!"'

STATES DEPIRTHENT OF J!

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIO.

San Diego,

California

May 2i 1973

•1nz Reuli, Please Refer 10

File No.

Title.

MATILDE JANE MILES

Character

Reference

SECURITY MATTER:-

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Report of SA ARNOLD W. O'BRIEN dated

and captioned as above at San Diego.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities are concealed

in referenced communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

•.

his document contains reicher recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. lt is the proper?

"the t'Bl and as lonned to your arency; is and its contents are not lu be distributed outsiar your

agency o

IN 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 112

--

---

## Page 113

TO.

FROM :

SUBJECT:

OATIEVAL FORM NO. 10

MA't 1AS EDITIONY

EBAFPHA (61 C7R) 191-11.8

UNITED STATES • JV

MENT

Memorandum:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-449333)

Hulu

SAN DIEGO (100-16964) (RUC)

MATILDE JANE MILES, aka

SM - SWP

•(00: Los Angeles)

DATE:.

6/11/74

Re. San Diego letter (FD 128) to Bureau, 4/4/74;

•Los Angeles letter-to Bureau, 5/31/74.

Enclosed for the Bureau are four (4) copies of an

IHM. dated and captioned as above with two (2) copies of an

FD 376 attached.

Enclosed for the Los Angeles Division are three (3)

copies of same LHM, one for dissemination to

U. S. Secret

Service at Los Angeles along with two (2) copies of FD 376

attached.

Dissemination is being made locally to U. S. Secret

Service.

Sources utilized in attached LHM are as follows:

Identity of Source

File Where 'Located

SD

I-I is Informan

SD 100-16964-258 anđ

LA 134-2807A-1246

14т.

Caps. 640; 5S

by restring slip for

Its 0 action

ate 6125/74

WAM. SD T-2 1s informant

SD 134-609A-1484, 1490, 1491,

1496, 1497, 1500, 1515,

1516,

1518,

1520, 1522,

1523, 1527,

1536-1538, 1549, 1553, 1555,

1566,

1567, 1571, 1601, 1605,

1614,

1615,

1617,

1619, 1624,

1631,

1636, 1637,

1640-1642 and

1667

Bureau (Enc.

4) (RM)

2

- Los Angeles

(100-71826) (Enc. 3) (RM)

1 - San Diego

AWO/ 1po

REG 35.

(5)

100-4473

WN 14 1974

18 JUN 6619741

'MH 55314' DocId:3BBPU.5. Sasngt1Bands Regularly on the Payroll Savines Plan

---

## Page 114

SD 100-16964

• Identity of

Source

SD T-3 is

SD. T-4

i.

S

SD I-5 is

SD T-6 is

Symbof

File Where Located

SD 134-440A-528

DE 134-1591-R-1016

LA 134-3799A-151 and 162

LA 134-811A-5158

LA 134-1055A-525

This case is being RUC'd to the Office of Origin,.

Los Angeles..

-2-

NH 55314 DocId: 32989706 Page 114

---

## Page 115

OXFICE

DIRECTOR

UNI

D STATES DEPARTMENT. OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGION, D.G. 20535

June 11, 1974

STICE

Director

United States Secret Service

Department of the Treasury

Washington, D. C. 20220

In Reply, Please Refer t0

File No. SD 100-16964

RE:

MATILDE JANE MILES

Dear Sir:

The information furnished herewith concerns an individual or organization believed

to be covered by the agreement between the FBI and Secret Service concerning protective

responsibilities, and to fall ithin the category or categories checked.

1. L Threats or actions against persons protected by Secret Service.

2. I Attempts or threats to redress grievances.

• Threatening or abusive statement about U. S. or foreign official.

4.

Participation in civil disturbances, antin!. S. demonstrations or hostile

incidents against foreign diplomatic estäblishments.

÷ 5.

6.

Illegal bombing, bomb-making or other terrorist activity.

Defector from U. S. or indicates desire to defect.

7. 88 Potentially dangerous because of background, emotional instability or

activity in groups engaged in activities inimical to U. S.

Photograph xX has been furnished J enclosed

• is not available.

•. $

Very truly yours,

cintelley

Clarence M. Kelley

Director

1 • Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure(s)) 1

U.S. Secret Service, San Diego (RM)

*-Special Agent in Charge (Enclosure (s)) 1

RARRANKU. S. Secret Service, Los Angeles (RM)

HH 55314. DocId:32969706

Page.115

---

## Page 116

In Reply, Please Refer 2o

File No.

UNITED STARES DEPARTMEN OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Diego, California

June, 11, 1974

MATILDE JANE MILES

SUBVERSIVE MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

I'.

BACKGROUND

À.

Residence and Employment

Subject's last known residence address

was Apartment

B, 225 South Gale Drive, Beverly Hills, California, and her

employment is unknown.

(SD T-1, May 29, 1974)

II.

CONNECTIONS WITH THE SAN DIEGO BRANCH - SOCIALIST

WORKERS PARTY (SDB-SWP) AND RELATED ACTIVITIES:

The SDB-SWP has been in existence in

San Diego, California, since 1959, and

is a local branch of the National

SWE

and has identical aims and purposes.

===

Subject was in attendance at 21 regular business

meetings of the SDB-SWP during the period April 30, 1973, through

October 8, 1973. She gave the Executive Committee (EC) Report

at 19 of these meetings...

.. = =-.

?==÷

NE:

==s

...

(SD I-2, May 1, 1973 -

October 9, 1973)

Sources whose identities are

-concealed herein have furnished

-reliable information in the past,

except where, otherwise noted.,

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

•1H 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 116

100-448333-51

---

## Page 117

MATILDE JANE MILES

SUBVERSIVE MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Subject was in attendance at a meeting of the

SDB-SWP on August 20, 1973, held at SWP Headquarters!

4635 El Cajon Boulevard, San Diego, California.

(SD I-3, September 18, 1973)

Subject was in attendance at nine (9) "Militant

Forums" sponsored by the SDB-SWP at SWP Headquarters,

4635 El Cajon Boulevard, San Diego, California, during the

period May 4, 1973, through October 5, 1973.

(SD T-2, May 8, 1973 -

October 9, 1973)

The "Militant Forum" is not, in fact,

an organization and has no officers,

collects no dues, and has no membership.

It is simply the name to be used for

sponsorship of meetings of the

SDB-SWP by which members of the SWP and

•YSA hope to attact liberals and others

to meetings for recruitment purposes.

At the SDB-SWP meeting held May 7, 11973, subject gave

the Plenum peport.

_..=..=

=_:=.

(SD T-2,. May 8, 1973)

On May 12, 1973, Vinnie Longo stated that subject was

now a full-time Organizer for the SDB-SWP and has quit her job

and is drawing unemployment.

....

(SD I-2, May 15, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters

May 29, 1973, subject was one of the individuals nominated for

the EC, SDB=SWP.

Following this meeting subject gave a Tasks

and Perspectives Report.

(SD I-2, May 31, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters,

-2-

HH 55314 DocId:32989706 . Page 117

---

## Page 118

MATILDE JANE MILES

SUBVERSIVE MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

San Diego, California, June 4, 1973, the results of the EC

election were announced and subject

was one of the members of

the new 'EC, SDB-SWP.

(SD T-2, June 4, 1973)

A meeting of the Forums Committee of the SDB-SWP was

held at SWP Headquarters, San Diego, California, May 31, 1973.

Present at this méeting was subject.

(SD T-2, June 5, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters

June 11, 1973, subject gave the EC Report.

Among other things

she requested that all members' of the SDB-SWP should report to

her any harassment by the FBI such as agents calling on comrades'

employers or neighbors asking questions.

Also to be reported by

the

comrades is anyone being approached by the FBI to act as

their agent inside the SWP or YSA.

Subject stated this infor-

mation would be sent to the National Office who intends to

start a law suit against the FBI concerning these matters.

(SD T-2, June 12, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-Swp held"

at SWP Headquarters,

San Diego, Malifornia, June 17, 1973, subject gave a critique on

the Majority Tendency

which was taken from the European Dis-

cussion Bulletin..

(SD T-2, June 19, 1973)

A meeting of the Forums Committee of the SDB-SWP was

held at SWP Headquarters, July 5, 1973. In attendance at this

meeting was the subject.

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters,

San Diego, California, July 29, 1973, subject was one of two

(2) delegates elected to represent the SDB-SWP at the upcoming

SWP National Convention.

(SD I-2, July 31, 1973)

-3-

55314

DocId: 32989706 ' Page 118

---

## Page 119

MATILDE JANE MILES

SUBVERSIVE MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

At the SDB-SWP meeting held Jyly 30, 1973, subject

gave the EC Report.

She advised that she as Organizer, SDB-SWE,

would have her fare paid to and from the SWP National Convention

to be held at Oberlin, Ohio.

(SD T-2, July 31, 1973)

Source advised subject was in attendance at the

SWP National Convention at Oberlin, Ohio, during the period

August 5; - 12, 1973.

(SD I-4, August 14, 1973)

Source furnished a flyer reflecting the topic of the

september 7, 1973, "Militant Forum"

The topic was

"The Case

for Equal Rights Amendment"

Subject was listed as one of the

featured speakers and was characterized as the "Chairman,

San Diego Socialist Workers Party".

(SD T-2, September 4, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters,

San Diego, California, October 2, 1973, subject gave the EC

Report. Among other things she

advised that she would leave.

the San Diego Branch in approximately one week as she has

accepted a National Assignment after which time she would be

transferred to the Los Angeles Branch - Socialist Workers

Party to work on the SWE California Statewide Campaign. She

advised the National Office would send in a replacement as

Organizer, SDB-SWP, in approximately one week.

(SD .T-2, October 3, 1973)

:::=--==

Source advised subject was in attendance at the

Los. Angeles Local - Socialist Workers Party Annual Shiskebab

held at 3341 Descanso Drive, Los Angeles, California,

August 25, 1973.

(SD I-5, September 24, 1973)

A meeting of the Forums Committee, SDB-SWP,

was held

at SWP Headguarters, San Diego, California, October

7, 1973.

CHH 55314 DocId:32989706 Page 119

---

## Page 120

MATILIDE JANE MILES

«".

SUBVERSIVE MATTER

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Subject was in attendance at this meeting:

(SD'T-2, October' 9, 1973)

At the meeting of the SDB-SWP held at SWP Headquarters

October 8, 1973, Burce Märcus was introduced to the SDB-SWP

branch members by subject and he was then voted in as Organize?;

SDB-SWP, to replace subject:

(SD T-2, October 9, 1973)

At. the November 5, 1973, meeting of the SDB-SWP held

at SWP Headquarters, San Diego, California, Holbrook Mahn gave

the

"Militant" Banquet Report and he advised that subject would

be in attendance. at this banquet to assist in fund raisingi:.

activities.

•J. (SD T-2, November 6, 1973)

Source advised that a Young Socialist Alliance

Regional Educational Conference was held at 1107 1/2 North

Western Avenue, Los Angeles, California, •December 1, 1973.

Subject was in attendance at this conference.

(SD I-5,. December 10, 1973)

" Thê YSA is a multi-national revolution-

ary socialist youth organization.

It

is the youth group of the SWP and is

controlled and dominated by that

organization.

The City Convention of the Los Angeles Local -

Socialist Workers Party was held at Los Angeles, California,

January 12, 1974. Subject was in attendance at this City

Convention and reported on plans for the SWP California

Election Campaign®

(SD T-6, January 17, 1974)

(SD T-7, January 14, 1974)

An SWP Election Campaign Rickoff Rally was held at

∞5-

WW 55314 DocId:32989706 Paged

---

## Page 121

MATILDE JANE MILES

SUBVERSIVE MATTER -

SOCIALIST WORKERS PARTY

Eastside SWP Headquarters, 710 South Westlake Avenue, Los Angeles,

California, February 23, 1974. Subject was in attendance at

this rally.

(SD T-1, March 4, 1974)

(SD T-6, March 4, 1974)

..

le mossada catsumeron

-6%

HH 55314 DocId:32989706 Pàge 121

...

---

