# docid-32397474

## Page 1

Bage: 12/28/98

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+0+1 04-10433-10157

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NU 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

THE NEW LEFT

DATE

10/09/68

PAGES

12

SUBJECTS:

KING

JOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

LASSIFICATION :

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS OPEN

OPEN IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

POSTPONED

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.18.09:25:59:530128:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

53216

DooId: 32397474

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CORTIES IPDT.

21-3535

THE NEW LEFT

MEMORANDUM

REPARDO IDE

THE SUBCOIDITTEE TO LVESTIGATE

THE IDIINISTRITION OF THE

INTERTIL SECUPITY ACT AND OTHER

INTERVAL SECURITY LAWS

OF ITE

CONUTTEE ON THE JUDICIARY

UNTIED STATES SENATE

SINEILETA CONGRESS

SECOND SESSION

OCTOBER 9, 1959

2-033

Priatel for tease of the Commited on the Jodiciary

U.S. COYE EAT PRINTLIG ORICE

FITZEGION : 159

HH. 53216

DocId:32997474

Page- 2

197.6

---

## Page 3

rises.

THE TET LEFT

27

•i le bach toss ce be dirican pras be lanied to all fatale SiC pres

It was this lind of metamorphosis thich innsiormed SaCC and

COPE iron ciril righis organizacon inio retolutionari forces call-

ing not for ta entrance of agros inio saisy, but jor tho rerolu-

tionary ricorsiracion of the societ.

It Tres Lais change mhich protided tom mih a common basis io

Tith other

Ter Lei organzators, which also sougat thi

¡àer sam it, mould basons a passibilit.

Peraaps ihs major fusion of the civil righis movement with tha

Ter Leit was found, homerer, in the parson of ine laie Ilartin Lucher

Ling.

The SAtiation of Dr. Ling in emphis on April 1 of this year

masan unspearable traged an auront to etery cirilized man. There is

on ancient saying that ous should say nothing critical about the dend.

discrasion of the dereloping relations between the New Left

and civil righis morement is impossibla withou maling note of the

role played by Di. Eing in the derelopments in the closing yours

si his carter.

Martin Luther Tung, when he fist gmarged as leader of the civil

righis moremeat, made a number of posiere coatribations for which

1e hes righty been bonord During this early period, among other

thing ba insisir on contiolence and be aroided asociation mith the

enrarista. Before his death, homerer, he bad mored into in increirs-

lug' open alliance with ibe extremisis and be had besome increasingly

miless ia his criticism oí trencan foreign pohey.

Spiking in ben tor on donil a 190i. Fing called on "all who

ind the faerican course in Tietnam a dishonorable and unjnst one'

io apply as coricientions objectors in military serrice. Ho describec

the C.S. Goterment 25 the greatesi purreror of riolence in the sorld

(National Guardian 2pr. 15, 195T. p. 13.)

leader.

on DI.

King's speech,

said thet "Di. Fing has come sound and Im glad to have

Tim mith te?

ise Urbea

priority the immedanta problem of surtiral in this connirs

==#.the

linited resources and personnel arailable to ciril righis agencies for

Fors in their behali should noù be direrted inio other chaanels."

dond 15 protest demonirions in

Tar Tork and Saa Tran-

in mere ormaized under the leadership of Rer. James Berel, chief

sistent io Ming. At the Jen Tor Dietng, Fing said that he hoped

o raise 5,00.00 to Snance the mors and that:

Me Tier te Tiemaso summer project aa a major urgeniaza follorap to inst

ael's bassire peace demonstagon It mill oder a coastructire ebaure! for ali

D.. King said the citil rights moremani bad shore thai-

: ÷202.

Arogani somer can da nade to field to organizad courage to the felt for.

52-÷03

HH 53216 DocId: 32397474 Page 3

---

## Page 4

25

TEE IT LEFT

On April 21 1457 in Camorare JInsa, Jartin Luther King. of the

Southern Christen

Leadershio Conference, annouaced a "Vietnam

saramar dire" agrins ibe mai and auricst U.S. interrentions elsa-

#bera He said Lazi, tue drite mould includa antidmfi activities.

sponspIshio of peace candidares in local and Siate elections, and

referendams is municipal elections assing for an end to the iar.

-Tre tarongaont ine daton nho oppose ihe mür must reach others

Tho aIa CoIcerzEd" DI. Fing said.

"It is time io more from demon-

strations and university teach-ins io a nationride community teach-

out? (Trashingion Pat, dor. 21: 1957, p. 1).

Dr.

Fing

25 joined at a nars conference by pediatrician Dr.

Benjamin Spect and Pioteri Saeer, editor of tha radical Pamparis

magence a Inmphia dinbated ai ibe conforence stated the lone-

Tanga zim di tas orniang enor is tha crestion oi a vocal, strong

ander bloca be 1923. "Te zira si mora than chaaging a rota or ino in

Congrat the pampalet sid Te set to defer Lyndon Johnson and

1 statement issued by Frandom House strongly criticized Martin

Luther King for leading his mantle of rapecebilty lo an anti-

Tietnam

mer coalicion that includes mell-anore Commiist allies

and luminaries si the america left. The paper said that De. Fing

nad emerged as ibe pable stear carmer oi

wen thet is demegeic and triponsible in its atiades on our govern

ment: Joiniaz in this staterent mas Roy Tilkins, erecutire direcio

of the 31AC2 and e member of the board di direiors of Frazdom

Hou (en Time Me 21 1931).

In an adrertisement in the Jer Tore Times a call for "Visinam

Sammer 1S3T ma5 made ander the Dames of Dr. Meran Luther long.

De. Benjamin Spore Lobari Seneer. Dr. John C. Bennett, Care, ie-

Tillians, z2d a nurber of ohers The siniement noted ihai-

Tienan Sammer ie a call for 10600 Tolutears, incloding 2,000 fall-tise

the sanner in Do comintaides

organizing and edcraang

ADE. 30, IOT, D.

==).

The goal of this projest mas io crete ta rem, independent force in

America thich will andertaba a brosa range ci concreta actions to end

the mar." The grone caesared to sculate animas lechag

among

roung people and in tacontage ibem in their reinal to join the my

The antidmit spect oi the lem lait has been adopted by mang

mith the ciril rigats moranent On Jiay 1. 1957, Clereland I,. Sal-

lars. Je une of ibe thre major officers of the Stadent Nor-Violent

Coordinatiaz Commitiz, refused to ba indecid into the Amy. Toa

22 TEar-old Megro called the Tietnamese mar 2

"racist condict" end

joined with Sinsel? Carienzal then student committee cuirman, in

zocasing the Unlial Staes of draftng large mambors of "egroes as

part of

a plan to commit "cuculated gezoside" di tho sarna time

Carmicheel ennonned that 15 other student committee moniers had

reicad indecion mithia tea urarions 3 months es part of the orga

Dization's compen agams the mer in Vietna (Con York Times

3535 2, 195г, 2.11):

HH 53216

DocId: 32397474 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TE TET LIET

29

•In an iniertien, the Rererad Jama Berol aszisialt io Dr. JInrün

Iniber King and bead of the âpril 15 artiar march in Kem Tork

Eả fen Eraacieo mas zbed bor he mould iaplement" entdan

Apetric "Toa doni naeà a mraole lui of cumplicaied pless." Berel

=a -3ihen 3fr. Jobnson cumes arocea lu gel jou, Jon just sar: 'I

→oa't go! " Ee Eprcsal ibe riem ioai-

Y Tn a cingto sa lainent sie einer. Tere cung io v

Eize eredente be the srarsas to so iujaa ba te ibozsands

cai of ile scron) esd inio che siras

Cino dona ten Iork Cit. = =

a 3er Jobason guain that bed gona to fore to ãop suling te fodis in Tiei

=7 (iha lTesningion Pot, 1pr- 20, I6T, IC-).

Fan entidrafi orzanization mas esiablished at pradominantir

Bamo ilomabons Colege in tiania G SeTenit night sedeDis suned

• petition rhich dedlarea "Tre cunari consciesciouelt permii our-

salres io ba used as cojecis in mer." Eeurt Bass a spohesman for ihe

1navir. Conmstee io End ibe Tar in Tieinnmn, said ibrir

the llurspoase goys ce pisigea io sesà legal ciercaracon as CO's; lat is,

LEL DEg LO PEET dO Ct Ot tT Eunz iD Carsda, fiering in gradaate

5o0b iatbeiag chadror eic, ini acreallr io compat toe drzit (Jadobal Gu2r-

daa, dgr. 29, 155, R 3)-

Depite all oi this aräriy wihin the cinil rights morement, tuere

has aleo baen a sirona zeciico arainst it br iradibonal adtocates oi

iril rinbis aod br masr brapzo leeders

- Speating at. Eomard Crirersiiy in Teshintion, D.C.. Fichmord

- IloTTer Mlabamas ionner enorzer geueral and a Iacial moderat

erped thei Sinbelr Carichael ted betzared Terto intarati zI

inet bfartn Luther hing: Jeu mae raung to oppuse tle mar in lret-

nom He called Carmichaal's drsf card buming axhoriation "almcs

LEzsopous" and comparzd Caraicrel mith foraer Slabara Gorer-

aoI George Malace snd mezatrà thai the ino men ran on the sama

iaks: foi Presiconi and Fire Pranderi.

PI du fãa a ter ciosa perora mia sada a lieaz derina a dueti roice aza ta

Guiesaor da Siste cuding in e schcaaouo door in deázoca di a Feiez ouui

order iast aánir e gealitcon citiran e thet Siete in tbe Siale Enireraity end zi-

¡snpãs to exciode ter jor te sole reca inrt sbe is giicero.

He said:

Dessoca l defsace, raeba toa sre daiica e draii nodice or a Federz! cour

erder (Tischington Fet lsy 3, 195T, E 2-91.

.Honers noted that black gomer, debance nau dack supremuc

zra just as immoral ard iberal as

tlite poter.

danancs, and rrbite

sapremaer:" Taming io DI. King. be sud thai there is so conteruoo

Leimeen the ciril rigàis maorement and the mar in Fietnam:

•I eer tagt (eriala ledens bare taben tds atotade in order to Ebco taraseltes

E Le nems Facher ian sardieg tei erergie io imaore ire fegros insicvs

in tis Jatioz * =%

DE. Rulph Dancãa, a mnemter oi de JAACPs board oi diriciors

Endlongtime T'egtolasder, seid ibsi-

MeT. Dr. sune shocld rostrelt aua publicle eita up cherce

vaaeco eods tere brde le raoco dam dorh Times, aor 19, 1001.

21).

1t the antimar muetng ia dem Tor on April 15. D=. Küng jousd

bimcali doing mhat be cuce raid be moola doi do. Eu appemad en tbe

NH. 53216: DocId: 32397471 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TEN GET LETTA

31

Sainländ in

Zer Tors Ros Mabing, escontire direcior of the

said he thought De. Ling ras shure in maling the pre-

But I think it's deagerous

**: He said that

antony on rot a ye on reming and that inge diet

The leader of a group oi Trest Side legro minisiers in Chicago

declared that Da Martin Luther Fing should "get the hell out of bere

bause his ciril rights marching in Chiago lasi summer "created

bate."

'Ibe Rererend Fanry Michell said that-

Li be mants to marco on the Test Side, let him marca mita rates, brooms, end

CTESS SEEdS.

He notea that the minisiers repraanted the sentianis of 50,000 =

Chicago Negroes who mant "peace, lore, and harmony." don't approre

of ciril rights marches and "just mant to lite in their commannitie

-end upgrade them." (Chicago Tribune dor. 20. 1967).

Scores of Howard Uniterair students chaniai "Burn. babr, burn"

25 20

effigy of Selectre Service Direcior Lemis B. Heishey tras set

afre during a campus rally on Apri 19. 1967. The burning mas spon-

Laneous, following hangings di elmes of Herber, Uritersity Presi-

lent Jares iL Nabrit, Jr.

and Dean Fran's Snorden of Hoard's

College of Liberal Aris. Afer the hangings and a round of speeche

denouncing Nabrit and Snorden as "Uncle Toms?

Someone in the

crord of more than 400 sindents yelled, "Burn that irbite mafinhead."

Diner studenis quicay ine tip the cry. shouting "burn him" ani

Naplam lim." (Mashingion Post, Apr. 20. 1907.)

Before the hangings most of the croud jammed into a hallmas in

a campus building where a namber of studenis mere faciug disciplinary

charges for forcing General Herber to cancel a speech at Horard or

- March 21. Outside the building Ronaid O. Fess coshauman of the

Projeci Awareness stideni committee that had inrited Hersbey to

speak, said:

•To scat I turited him I con't mant too to speas He's a rita zaa (ibia)."

Referring io unitersir charges that the siudents "dirupied ine

* == orderly operation oi the school, Pross contoued:

responsible

Tith this rope we're going to dispit some more The dormiend 1o ta

Ie intend to be bleck a

= Be. Babrity is reeding Honor and

snootag this unirersity to pot. I say me don't here time so= Homez. First leis

get rid of every Dade To around bere (ibid.).

A cache of amus, ranging iron a slineabor to a samed-ou rife, res

uncorered by police in a mid on a Barlen thedter noted for its pro-

duction of plays nith antimhite themes. A police inspector said the

raiding party also iound a ride practice range in the basement of the

Biach

Aris Reperiort Theater.

Oñcers arresied sir mez incinding

one tho mas armed and tried io block defectires at the door. Police

said they found a sign inside the theaier which read:

All meapons cleaned and sharpened or 6 pun all masons mil he inspicied

by Enan, the Leader.

"The therer is the same one founded by biterly antimhite poet-

ple right LeRoi Jones with partial support fron aatiporerig funds

(Trashingion Fost, Jar. 18, 1965).

IN 53216. DocId:32397474-Page -6

---

## Page 7

we spirts

•3-1

TRE NET LEFT

against things es ther are regardless of wether the thingo be detri-

menial or beneêcial-

¿aut riolence becomes

the esiablind order di done ibingo to cali for rational discoure,

debate, and a democratic and

peaceial settlement of disputes. If the

Ten left-ciril rigets coalion dispuras ite esiabliament in all areas,

ta lo dispures te cablishment mih regard to molence

It is importani ihat ice majonty of Amencens recognize the fact

that thare retolationer riens are bald by only a small minority of

Vegrees Tet. like the DoD-degto der Leit it is a militant, rocal and

actre minorit and it maba its presence tele out of all proportion to

its enmerical strengta Pacion in tererse may ba an understandable

reaction to may tears of discrimination and suering, but it is the

bird of reaction maich rall pretent real progres in the very impor-

tant area of race laáors

Martin Inther Fings briei membership in this coalition, that he

had become milling is appear on the same plation and program mith

he black pomer adrecares he sbanned onit a shurt time before, indi-

cates that his ona riens ned chunged Egrifcently. The fact that

Jegro opinion has ben suarply dirided orer the ner afaliation of

Portions of the ciril righis morement mida tas antimar morement

Tas pointal ont in a recent sady of the efect of the mar in Viet-

nam upon american life:

The pacaliar contict in besto santmeni emerzed stringie, ion, in a measure

nant di carent atatades coman bossi laureau Martia Inther King. Has finds

outposen anti-viabas mer rand the polliers assel, damaged the ciril riabas

ice general polic)

"Iss.

Jet, siiacantr, le poli sugsested a

manade dedine in dez's ropriat coong Desires Dair 15 percent of tuem.

in tar

said seat they moaid toz for bia la be ran for President Tre chiel

reason lor tis dues not sen in ta sung's jaciasa Rather, it apparently 1s that

bis zatimar ectirit bas tacoace tis prerions role a5 a champion of the degro

Jal÷ 19, 1955, p. 31).

Dapite the eforts of the mlicanis, legro participation in antimar

protests has ben slight blany say a parallel trite past eforts of

¡he Communist Part to talisi jegro suppori idI a separate Meyro

Peppolic in the South br idetiring themseltes mith citil rights

arärites. But ior the limited response is tbe black porer appen!,

it trould appeariari the carent 3an Let attempt to use the degro

as a catal it for rerolation min jail as dismally 25 hate psi eforis io

Esploit the american legro ior retolutionary parposes.

The split mhich bas been seeing in the cirl righis morement since.

the zocincion oi some of its numhers with the Jer I.eit, antimar

Ingement has seen condiring organizatices and riempoinis arise.

Ei contict Eldridge Crater the Blach Panthers *ALmister of In

ibaraation*

and presidential inmizee

of ibe Feace and Fredom

Parer, esplained his reroladonary goals in a group of San Francisco

largers:

america is up apias the mall Tale toole apraratos. this capitalistic cites

2=d ias institations and intico... all euni to le anizara to the garbage ces of

titor and

I dont aire a

Taù doesn't lie it 11 me can't bare it,

son for header

in depici the =?

alliaots.

cbjectionabie nader cose:

ree more mere daried tacose

ther

Fera

roued to ba

50023 5s2271

HH 53216 DocId:32397474 • Page 7

---

## Page 8

BE IN TEE1

37

Sio'es notsl tozi

La care redtracon da mogle do e cartonere da cariciamodio di to a

jes debteralso courrired lamicanes ene dereicadro in rummi riolence

Espero siaia that the ber fare in che compiamo mas Fred

"smes" Erans 2 local black poter laider mio aos bien Linkal in iba

pro-Pering Ierolutionary action morenena. In Mag 1907. Det. Set.

John Lagrar: head oi loe Cereena polce degerments eterenire

speed said that terroris under Eraos diaccion mere plouing a

blas recolution to coincide meh a mar Limera Ped China aud The

Crited States" Erans, nho mas trited durine ice ros. mas charred

mih eleone to bill.

Thur carbine barai jarmed I rouid bare

Le on thate, polica queied him as sarine. "I bed you in ar sighte

rien mut rife jammea" Erans iod lice lee be abd 17 others bad

organized the super amachs thai rentred in ire dess of tare police-

nEI. Told thai thae di his minere and beer clair. Erans said.

"Thay

dec dura monny caure" Phil Hurdings, Tultna: head of the Sandeni

Ton bolent Coranohag Commine, loid tenener tbat che Clera-

land outorez as tere "The tirsi stage di retolacionart anoad rioleaca"

(Euman Eferis dug. 3.1903.)

I is trident thai e terizin segneat of the Forl rigais" morereni

bes taraed to reparcism and to riolente. In bes joised force mith the

Hen lei in ueposag the very siraciare di amaricon sociert, and in

culing ior deient abroad and rerolaion at home

Those rho tuo seca ciril righis mho air sea an Amerien societ

in trice Negres and whites sharza conce crizaship, ara den mis

ith this trend among tounger more miliani temo spobeanen. Mes

macera Tes Espressa by former Sarcian oi Bala Educanoe, aud

Fierare Joha Gardner:

Ine prister eins iur

mee theo tre in imprate i

Dna.

titiretto

Tous and aodesiaile

÷2 642

more coppacrabr in socias

La tirlesi tarde

ci the

jasire

dianoo teat ma to leit lo iccreccaza bara coibunas d datorare inter

bora trenteires so dip ibat ibe

barrids

Toe trame Coppie car Societ

Io caie

I23er22e5 1022

1920 220

white bare

ires all io siltat

F (Peder's Diger, Jese I7S.)

Tue jorag di icices beimees be let Leit and cerain elements

«á the ciril pighi sapremeni is a daggerose preto! di the eriremisa

tomarü thich ma are moring. Pat di che renson for ils suices as

ExciaT Gardner has gaid ts tosi the moderaia bare poi sienared

the tide In ment coses. ther bare escontaged ii fearing to los thei

um leadershio role. li this comune ercier mai face au erer more

arious problem. Tiolence begers rulence. and iba mins of thie past

rill èe in danger. Thes mold be hareral io al Americans. Onli

those mho appreciate ibe granity di tais nei coalition con act to defent

js inÊuence and jruter.

wW. 53216SD661d:$2397174• Page &

---

## Page 9

size

•april 10, 1967, marbed the culmination of one importani phase of

ea inter morement and saw large cumbers of marchers parading

in Her Tork and San Francisco. The Jer Fork City Police Dipari-

ment's ORce of Community Relations said that polica oficials at the

Triad Jasons Plaza stimaid the number of demonstrators at be

ITED

4100.500 and 125,000. The parade mas led by the Pererend

audia Later King Jr. Dr. Benjamin Spock aud Harry Belafonie.

and mas sponsorol uT the Spring Mobilizing Commiitee To End the

Mar in Vieinam, a loss confederation of Jem Left, pacifist, and

nore moderate anamar groups (New Fork Tires, Apr. 16, 1907. P. 1):

• About an lour before the parade siariad a crond oi founs men

fathered on a rock in Central Par'a to bern their draft cards and dem-

ontestors said that dearly Diyy were barned Is each card caught

Ere, a throng of sereral thousand persons many of whom carried or

Fore dañodile chanied homer Forer?

. In one arza of the part, there the demonstrators gathered prior t

he march, the C.S. Commitse in Eid the Jaional Liberation Front

of South Tietnam built a Ld-foot-Lige tomer of black cardboard tob-

ing. They then attached a nanber of fag of blue aud red with a gold

ar in the center, the hag oi tre laeisong

. Most of the marchers carrisd sions that had bsen authorizad an

printed by the Spring Jiobilizacon Commitice. Amon the slogans

authorized" banners and placards. One a bad sheet carried br three

Tong men, bore in large biach levers the mords -Bo Chi Mini Is a

Firgini (ibid).

One of the signifcant things zioni ihe march mas the fact that it

represeried a neis coalicon of the socalled hippie left and the more

radional political leit. One eja miness report siressas this iact:

The marchers, reroasi? estimated at iron Incro to 300,050 gatheres at the

Ebuy bitador in Cantal Part and te fis imprasion doe risini recited mas

that ci a summer afte neon undog.

The jagy are against lue Tar Committee

cai and noble Tietames. Flems

posi the seeing mas istantoted be en amera anent tori one of the audieace

=35 pesded immediatel on "Eipple sui, moere be tres to perocipate in a re

"Eippie Bil™ mas the frist in toe get maare tae aéroates of ISD, mari-

102I2, 200 GiCe dIES ISi cd IonE LosE Una prirate ritoal One sigo

Loe stated that "Trai Is a Bed Trio, aid a mali goop continuali, beat toes

Zootber part of the Sacon Meador mas caci lor moat was politely Laome as

te Radical Contiagent Elza alop a tomas mee me lugs de the Vicious, and

2onet mas being reird io seed to son Tezee 1 isabet distribated be toe

0S. Comantee io did te Madone Liteason Ironi ratro tai To be ederüre

Laura mork to soon that loe real enemy is

taices is dot in Tietage bai in

cia cra coooter."

59

22-603-055

HH 53216 DocId: 32397471 Page 9

---

## Page 10

....

TRE SIN LIN

ne em eppened in a iar lagi cs 10 na de coc oi histor back dod

Tre frater iar and cagady oi it all is wat

Pote do non cest ia de bol d lang eu era catre dedonar (acional

Caiajan, 2pr. 22, 1957, p. 2).

Pro inte o lene estes de ter the roas

'o this adminisoston les said a eia resciauda is Desded in lois

¿urua and criopied cocour, nica

Fe tere lende to made desätute and

cair nao caid celer como oi eta peruana ten the damonal Lirera-

Froni? u a E ji is grite cleri

ca do a nor escens bamase and condido tio d corning Socta Tieman

Lo eiber Premier Ej o Generai Marourcid dE Ellnoria Barber (ibia).

According to antimar spobernet, the ranblization repreented the

broedest coalition of peace grouns Gue peace group thich dia

Ict support the demonstration mas de Jarional Comitite jo= 2 Sane

3adeer Policg, bur Miliam Price. Jañonel Goardian reporier, noied

tùa: "teroughout the cord. Lenner appeare identuring participanis

mt 1oal Sane chaptars" Ole delegacion esimaied at 3un marched

Lend a huge red banner lenera a goid: Conmunis Part, Jen

Torà Siate

TEE GEE Hal: Comunisi Pari

nojosal chairman. Communist

Johasos said frequent applaue had come inusa orlookers and inter-

prated this as "approtal of the ores purècieatine of the part in the

Estitical life oi the country"" Fach paniciparion, be said marked iba

ad o MicCambrian (Jecional Guardian, Apr. 22, 1997, P. 1)

1 jeadet disiribated ai the ruir. rod poblehed by rbe C.S. Com

nitre To Aid the Jational Literation Erust da South Tieinam (Bos

C, Oid Caelsea Station, Nem Ton a.I.): said de followring:

•The T.S. Comnitee lo sin the Jadcz2' Ideraca Essat di Soar Tiram

INSES? 700F

icr

fan in defense on their

Ler. De doe bas come to desde abie sile Toa zEro::! The OSCANTE-ST

Te Ence Morement zoonid more io Eon ta: de ta "aner u abericans

Fade Her Fors rir Siobeir Carnichoal caled Secriar of

Doiras Probert S. Bebamera

ROSE" Enerart of State Dese

PesE "a 1oul" and President doassoa te badosa" Tilliam Pepper,

caatior o "Chidres de Temana caled for an end to "the reigu

d Leedon Johnson" cad propesad e sedonal dobei de blarin Lucher

Fing and Dr. Benjamin Snoca Roraid Zian oi Eczion Enirersitr

Créd for the most magnificasa elegent miracama!" froro Tisiram

mah the banda plating and "Bib Jope euching jores" (Mathingion

Sua 10= 10.1607) -

•Dre contingent of militani leção proiesor brobe anaj imia the

muin line of arch in Jar TorE and prernded on tbair ou to the

Tunes Sapare area. The iuborina repor appeard in ie Ning-June

L9T iams of Blac Jías a baca radosalia publication in ven

Jar: City:

Cina Crosel Para Fert Por mozia eet role La liga pende ronte, bot monte

HH 53216

DocId: 32397474 Page 10

---

## Page 11

61

TIE IEVT LEIT

bui io "orieni it torard *s* the rerolutionary organization milicsa

program dos pionue the husis for such a general struarte."

Proiau leaders riemed tae resulis of the doril 15 marcb optirais-

tieaby: sod many erpriäsed tbe riem thet this reprosented "

beginniag The Dettrend Jama Berel, commiee dineio md a

closa esnclaie of Jlarin Loiker Hing, riemed the April 15 ection as

"tbe bagianisg of a masa moremant against ranss murder." He said

thai the aim oi the nen noremeni "will be io gei Johnson's troups out

oi Tietram br Chrisnmie:

Jacà Smith of rbe Jañional Guardian ashed tha question: Is iù

possible in iba Lnred Siaics at this polat to develop a mass, brond

based anü-lieinam mai Inoterorni mith tbs potentinl of seriously as

fecüing goremmreni decizons? Dis saster :

1 rpar ago te enaner moaià bare lien au imcetdinte ungualiseù "co." Folar

te ansrer frnn some liaders in toe antimar struggle is a cautious,

rualised

-"Ierbays" This maponse is ioribioming eren tbougu there mey bare beea more

aptimar arãon e teer 932, end te zoreneni, ou the surface, bas beaa ia da

dizcin -sioni sobina.

The Deti seteral Diace mill deteraine mbetber this zenr's more ontimmistié

Iredicsion bas suoraris. Pur oi ibe aasmer Gepeade un whether tbere hus heen a.

à gnalitabre cheege in tle purd of toe iucerican people torard the mer. Parte

degends on the eristing rntigar morement itsele und wheiber it is able to capizie

talize on azy snol @rase iteticnal Geardiar, Apr. 1, 1067, D. 13).

d siunifcant change in iha approach of organizations such as thaye

Jiudents i0r a Democauc Socieiy 1s that they no longer sesk to er÷

or what tbey cul:

perbamentaiy prmes oi liberal:

Fhat ther sei io do is derelop a pohtcal arrareness and mor

from "nonpolitical proiest io political resistance." In order to do thiel

it belieres that "alienated foutas mnst bo bronght to understand toas

their

personal probiems are collectiran the result of a socieby 152

Thich man is mcrearglt disiont irom the decisionmalung prosss.

T'be cansa for soca disiance, the ilew Loft ssems to bo saving mor

and more is the entia eronomic, social, and political stractar cs

=ocieir. Programs are now being derised ie erpose the po:serles nes

to achiere

siudent pomer." The long ranra

oal is "not porer de

this particalar clase bot the derelooment of this cless into a rerors

tionarr

force toz rowid tork with other oppressed clnssai

sorieir (National Grardian.

"SDS Aim: To Build Revolutious

Conscionsas, dor. 15.1057 p.5).

The nañozal seretait of Smdents for a Democrutic Socistr: Cre

ory. Calrert, enid ihai Te are morkiog to build a guerrilla iora

an wbon entimament. De are actirely organizing sedition" (5

Torà Timea JIar T, 1957). Jer Tork 'Timas reporter Pand HIsfte

staied innt "doring a 3-meck series of interiers mith some tó la

Left actiriss and

Fmpathceers

irom

coast io coost*

*si

sounded much more trcwient than merbers of the Minscom-orieri

Communisi Parit, C.S.1: He reported thai Che Cuerain's pie

mas found on the malis oi the ofôces of radical neuspupers node

nng mrnups and ihsi "tis nome cropped up in tilks whenevarg

VeT leiis curient infotantion inth

liredi action wiag oentios

HH 53216 DocId:32397474

Page 11

---

## Page 12

INE CUICAGO CONTRENEE CN TOS POLITICE

Resirera:

pita a oseipit ee den e e ese eni

-wuerican

and the

Euss arà tiandaras ui our sodar, ine fational Coadarere io: Jen:

PrEics, maren todá place za Chicago duriag rhe Arer meek of Saniem-

berzior saonid la suficient to eraulish thai criticieme quare cnloa

ma rdenitoe der leits aifarka

Bicagos

Peimer IIouse Roiel

ma5 the sraaa ci a

rerting.

nhig brraght 2o00 dalegates irom taroagaont ine couniit togetber*

ío deide mbat robtieal pach the ber lef migài proêceber tabe as it

dopsacha the lses elactions. Tue tean contened oe diuguet 31. 190r,=

Forsordag arbich nav sas the tone foe mdical euärdtr fbnienate time

tucane In Fas, ia a sense the end of unt pbus: ei Jem Lifr actirirg

vonnebpamirg of acother.

PEur in zhe mieting much discussioa icoà place czcering funure

usolita for acion. Mitirg in the Coumuns Morker, Carl

Bras zord ibat-

FTae IaT Char CbnDE Esde

CETALSON EES LECENTOT. it mODia

De 5ui TileTEr JOrD the ioramest

Brs? bood mooe Do the oá tee surra. l eer rgar ino nes eonhing

i inmia io mib mrag miore inag the belta bug andic me picae: boa YTbe

Foiar, Sepi ã, Il5o, p. 1.)

Isa zosuon paper prepared prior io the Caicigo mesane. the

1. E B. Da Buis Clubs set forth lis umn epprach fr saied hini

Acu de pãane de lhe co tebet da toe debre le aeerd den oder riors

te tieehea aua e jeace tieie in de izumedo prizat conla le the

minte lacae

e jargeT runtEr d DEziccie TReR iN SiprR a

21 juresi-

ra die. in

Cereminer 190g, aier Jebesia is mrmiraei

Bat ii there is

Iopne sere in 1053 de toer egzisai dicadoo mai taTe ro place lo gu CJtel

¿e CEP pDen Prltica ide a denr Gaetica aa arpmero io te 1565 Elrjons"

De Forisr, 10g 20, 1957, p. T.)

Eszie oi ine 2.000

partcipanis manted io fuid e tbird parig

caEmn1ens leaded porhaps bt the HeT. Maren Laiber Dieeor Di.

Lmna soxk. Ones, homerer, expratd the ner aoei toe mhole

teãon baraa t e imuo ana tad dbet sbentd muer casrede inrolre

tenlrein in

~Talaare sddres: mas giren br Da. Fng. Be arused Eresident

Johzon

pe beirating peoply

who suppcaed him in 15f= *Tha

oECCTeL Sogiee mas sbiporEed oã dee coori oe laia on êlia

¿reãnl periasola oi Fietnam."" he feid. Re dencaceed the mar in

Tiatar asd said thatifitisn'terdud br nesi reor Fal meo dá goal

ME aos ereare a ciruation in iraica dae 1e6Trds dlecuona are made a

reiererdom da tee mar.The Ameñicaa peogle mañ tate aa comoriun-

in toroie into eslivion thosa tho connor deracà temsires iron:

ibarm tose mho lend us not ioa eer monid bur drae as io ihe

Lazzoi e dead norida (The Treshiagon Star Seoe 1: 165r.)

Ia ãs edbras Dr. Spocksaia the Calird Sinic Sbela anaounce

NW 53216 Docld: 33897174 Page 12

---

## Page 13

72

TEL DEN LEIG

of the tola Bireb Seein: Their revolution, he said,

"is psycho.

co polandel or cononne, 22d tier dull loud and lone about

That iberre opads? to lie big Endoml Gorermment. but they say

hardt anhing dour maat terre for." Cien Tork Times,

Sept.

Joi auTegrees found hensalris in agreement with de durannds di

¡he miliast black poter narcales Joseph Dereon, son of Rep. Ti-

said that - This is not a convontion.

hell. Tana people hare the audacity to say they are helping our clues

Fell. I am a Vegro and iberre not helping me.

(Human

Erents. Sept_1s 195T.)

Prior to the Caago meeting Profesor Pereiz prote in the "ter

Polite Jews a marning of mbat might orcur:

it is pinable but Jirs beare me saall be able to loch back upon this nations!

ion a mictore i

the maiarition of a

ner American

Bai ¿ais contendon aar alo prore to be the burial grounds of:

fusteote to history res

need ill careDdon

sa5 being ibe place where the lois engaged in inuteal.

Fatua sad la sutricide, ruere leclogical absolntion dioplaced bota tacory

2288 Done CarEd (63060 in Mashingon Star, Sent 11, 1057.)

The plans ior a third partr nichei for 1968 never ranched Eruition

25 a rall of the inerzal trangling erident at the conference. Jeffres

Drast be the Elac Carens, the menating AChe never Tas able to pursue

is carbal dojecare: seemant be a ing stack ticket for 1058.

Support dudle

Di. Kiag dissiptied witer his orening night speech. Tis not only failed to firs

EarSoRi DoE Le lars militanis and toile radicals scote bica of us passa

Santon Inad zad Rentie Iaris di SDj staitd in a josition paper that iue:

renatal TERe io codego te gaerto rebelion" and bende could not. baci

Dr. King man bad jinà de mideraie tiril righis leadership in condemning riot.

nad ibute mao indie or prorobe iben. (The Ver Leader, Sept 11, 190%.)

In ¡bis arris the role of the Siudents for a Democratic Socich

and other mirerit organizations is discussed :

•== SDE ELd che mirero songs beliere radicalization means iras

inse

¿ber contend, lies mitbin corporatio

India tiresides sod ice mirart. In sodition they claim clectione ars menta

ciatire and bed in eruring raine spsiems Tutiug they, in SDSa lexicon, ir

janirear bei Gog ce a chore lemen options provided by otber the beined

Craterlessena SD5 preies io cositabaie on locai orgatirag in urban shells

ud curerazy co surace coratercommunal institotions, on alterice C

saner sod endeas to tbe rision" and on radicalizing the poor.

Orhers in Chirago sharply didend mith the SDS approach. Dis

Holaleer of Barbeler's eir Accion Polities bolieres the Presidenc

ibe foes of auericon politics. He urged the idea that providing

third choice mideas the limits of national debate and thunters

essing order.

Iro diar enteppreache energed. The Erst called for Jocal pol

acion. organizing the ghettos and working class communities,

opposing ibe mar. The sond supposed by Nen Tock and Calito

dalegitions, protosid an independent national ticket, writh candic

To baseleried or a national nominating contention nest year.

The compromise which rawlied came abous in this way:

Tuarrio spurns da cobreation a pouidaight caucus mas beld in a fe

miesot io iroa cet a comprair terices SDS and the Californiaos. Ma.

inmiria il Berseler propid raising te resolution on local orgaria

HH

53216

DocId: 32397474 Page is!

---

