# docid-32399430

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

:104-10112-10260

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

vasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM : DD/OS (I&OS) , FRED HALL

TO : CC/OS/TR, ATTN: JOSEPH KING

: CROZIER,

L. - RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR CLEARANCE

DATE

PAGES

06/28/1960

2

SUBJECTS : CLEARANCE

WITHHELD

CROZIER

PAPER

DATE

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

CURRENT STATUS

OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/23/93

: F5: 1993.07.23.13:51:54:210410

IRI - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10112-10260

HH 53294

DocId: 32399430

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STAVOR ARE FORM NO: 04

SECRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

:CC/OS/TR

Atta . Mr. Joseph King

FROM

:Deputy Director of Security (Investigations

and Operational Support)

DATE: 28 JUN 1950

SUBJECT:

CROZIER, Ross L.

#112569

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 13 May 1960

requesting that Subject be granted an appropriate security

clearance to permit his utilization by CC/OS/TR.

It is under-

stood that Subject is currently in the United States and will be

here for a period of two years and that WH Division has offered

Subject's services in connection with practical exercises

arising out of training activities on a "as needed" basis.

It is further understood that Subject will not have access

to Agency buildings and ISLIP. It is contemplated that he

will have access to such safehouse facilities as is required

by the respective training exercises and will be introduced

to and know trainees by training allases only.. It is

further understood that Subject will not be used with liaison

personnel nor foreign nationals who will serve in the South

American area.

2. This is to advise that a covert security clearance

1s granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your

request as set forth in paragraph 1, above. It is understood

that Subject will remain the administrative responsibility of

WH/Mexico, who will continue to provide work for Subject.

3. A memorandum containing pertinent information

regarding. Subject is being forwarded concurrently under

separate cover.

4. Subjects of covert security clearances are not to.

represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as,

employees of CIA.

5.

Your attention is called to the fact that a covert

security clearance does not constitute complete compliance

with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore,

If you should desire at a later date

to change the status

or use of this individual, a request' for clearance to cover

any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

SECRET

---

## Page 3

SECRET

6. This clearance becomes invalid in the event the

Subject's services are not utflized within six months of

the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

SECRET

---

