# docid-32202124

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/94

Page: 1

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10235

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CITE MEXI 7014

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection

act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53244 Date: 06-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : MEXICO CITY

TO :

TITLE :

PHOTOS OF MAN ENTERING CUBAN EMBASSY/MEXICO CITY

DATE : 11/22/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

PHOTOS OF MAN ENTERING CUBAN EMBASSY/MEXICO CITY

MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS: IA, 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/15/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244

DocId: 32202124

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

Chief, SR Division

SUBJECT

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Lee OSWALD

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Reference: MEXI 7014

classirictrici

xx

PROCESSING ACTION

MARXED FOR INDEXING

B

NO INDEXITE REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

¿ CAM JUGE INDEXINE

MICROFILM

PRIORIIY

1. Attached are copies of the only photographs obtained from LiMPTY

on 1 October 1963, which appeared to be an American. This same man visited

the Soviet Embassy on 4 October 1963.

2. Copies of these photographs were shown to The U. S. Ambassador

on 22 November 1963 and a copy of each of the two photographs was given to

Chief ODENVYA|Mexico, on that date.

set

IDEN I

(P)

-

P.S. Photographs dated 15 October 1963 were inserted after typing

of dispatch. These were taken as parson entered the Cuban

Embassy.

EDOORDS

SIES

4

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1998

• 2:152225

a.:

Desensitie

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROSRAM

CIRAIRS

Enclosure:

THESE PEOTOGRAPIS WERE LATER INTIFIED AS NOT

Photographs

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TUG LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

coordinate

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

Distribution:

22123198.

2- WH, w/encis

CROSS REFERENCE TO

JAN

23 1976

Corinn: ?

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-22533

CLASSIFICATION

SECREI R$B: I

HOS FILE NUMBER

23 November 1963 1 1

201-

---

