# docid-32307793

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10293-10151

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 92-8706-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BARRETT, ROBERT M.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

01/04/1966

5

JFC, ASSOC, RES, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

06/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307793

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC;

DATE: •11-14-2017

2107 Note).

FD-23 (Rev. 5-1559)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

DALLAS

DALLAS

1-4-66

7/28 - 12/29/65

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

CHANGED

VINCENZO

IGANZO

MAGGOTTA

ROBERT M. BARRETT

aka

CHARACTER OF CASE

Vincenzo Maggiota

Jimmy Maggiota

Jimmy Iganzio Maggiota

TYPED BY

bfm

AR

Title is marked changed to show additional alias of

subject as developed through investigation at Dallas.

REFERENCES:

Dallas letter to Bureau dated 9-28-65.

Dallas letter to New York dated 11-3-65.

Dallas letter to Bureau dated 12-9-65,

captioned "VINCENZO IGANZO MAGGIOTTA,

Vincenzo Maggiota, Jimmy Maggiota, DL 248-PC,

TOP ECHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM,

DALLAS DIVISION".

- C-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum con-

taining characterization of informants utilized in this report.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3

Pending over one year - no

Pending prosecution over six months

SPECIAL AGENT

S "NCHARGE

Bureau (92-8706)4177

- 10

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-8706°

1 - USA, Fort Worth

2 - Dallas

(1

(1

® JAN 6 1966

92-582)

137-1777)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

file 20e

COPIES DESTROYED

926 16. JUN

19/6

53 JAN 1 2 1966

L06: 17,

TAL SE

DocId: 32307793 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

A °

DIE

92-582

ADMINISTRATIVE

A

photograph of the subject has been forwarded to .

the Bureau.

The extensive investigative period of this report

has been noted by Dallas; however, this matter has received

continuous attention throughout this period and

has

been

kept

current through referenced communications:

By letter dated 12-9-65, the Dallas Office designated

the subject as a target for development under the Top Echelon

Criminal Informant Program and requested Bureau authority to

contact and interview the subject.

By letter dated 12-21-65, (Dallas file 137-1777)

Bureau authority was received, and

by letter dated 12-20-65,

the Bureau instructed that a report be submitted in this

matter along with recommendations as to whether additional

investigation was warranted in view of the subject's desig-

nation as a top echelon criminal informant target.

A copy of

this report is being designated for the

Dallas informant file concerning the subject as it contains

background information of the subject.

In view of the subject's designation as a target

and the lack of any information developed to date that he is

actively engaged in any

criminal activities, it is not believed

by Dallas that any further investigation in

the captioned case

is warranted and therefore this matter is being placed in a

closed status by Dallas.

The Bureau will be kept advised of

all pertinent developments. in connection with the development

of the subject as a top echelon criminal informant.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

DL T-l is confidential source JEROME CRANE.

DL T-2

is DL 105-C

DL T-3

iS DL 275-C.

DL T-4

is DL 135-C.

DL T-5 is JAMES VAUGHN, Security Supervisor,

Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, Dallas,

Texas

- B*

-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32307793 Page 3

---

