# docid-32304276

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

"RECORD NUMBER.:

124-10285-10288

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 140-0-39142

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#: NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, SA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/18/1957

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ER, REL, EMP, ASSOC, CP ACT, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32304276

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64,

Office Memorindum • UNITED STATES GOVERNE

GOVERNMENT

TO

FROM

DIRECIOR, FBI

SAC, SAN ANTONIO (140-0-134)

R. L. ROBERTS,

Civilian Employee

Kelly Air Force

Base, Texas

'SECURITY. OF GOVERNMENT-

EMPLOYEES.

ENERA

DATE: 6/18/57

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNGLASSICIES 201, 326

SPEMACGAT

By

• letter dated 6/12/57 GEORGE M. SANDER,

Colonel, U. S. Air Force, District Commander, Tenth Disrict,

Lieutenant (JFK)

OSI, KANNEX,

San Antonio, Texas, advised this office that

ROBERTS is being considered for

assignment in connection

with his employment to perform work on aircraft containing

classified equipment.

In view of the foregoing, OSI con-

templated conducting the usual background investigation to

obtain clearance for ROBERTS.

ROBERTS has the initials R.L. only according to

a Statement of Personal History attached to the letter.

He was born 8/8/24 at Wharton,

Texas, and presently resides

at 311 Fargo Street, San Antonio, Texas. This Statement

of Personal History

reflects ROBERTS was

formerly employed

from October, 1948, to February, 1949, at Inman's

'Shoo, 703 South Pine Street, San Antonio, Texas.

Barber

It is noted that JOHN INMAN according to SA 530-S

has operated Inman's Barber Shop, 703 South Pine Street,

San Antonio, for many years.

On 4/27/53 SA 530-S. orally advised SA JOHN M.

KEMMY that JOHN INMAN was known to the informant to have

carried a Communist Party membership card sometime between

the fall of 1948 and the fall of 1950.

по 960.

R. I. ROBERDENFD - SECORDED - 6A

The san Antonio office indices are recative.

39142

RÖBERTS indicated in

the Statement or Personal

History dated 5/6/57 "I worked in a barberkli antstand

operated by

One JOHN INMAN who is an admitted Communist

sympathizer. I have had no otherlassociatton with him

othern than renting a barber chair in his

• Т

shơp"

AFAST

REVIEWED BY SWUFK TASK FORCE: I dO

Bureau

ON

San Antonigy

M5J/c1h

41897

al

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

D

TOTAL DENIAL

letter

THe and

74 53130

DocId: 3230

4276

Page 2

---

