# docid-32328233

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90071-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4345-49

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 07/11/1963

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

MAX GARCIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32328233

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

COmi

VI HAT

MM 97-387

COPIES: (continued)

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

1 - U.S. Customs, Miami (RM)

1 - ONI, 6th Naval District,

Charleston, S. C. (RM)

1 - OSI, Robins AFB, Georgia (RM)

1 - G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga.

(RM)

1 - INIC, Orlando, Fla. (RM)

1 - New York (Into) (RM)

1 - San Juan (Info) (RM)

3 - Tampa (97-9) (RM)

1 - Washington Field (Info) (RM)

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

Information copies have been designated for New York,

San Juan and Washington Field Offices, because of their interest

in Cuban and Dominican matters.

- INFORNANTS -

LOCATION

IDENTITY

MM T-1 is PSI (under

development) DRAGOSLAV

STOJKOVIC

MM T-2Ys PSI (under

development) FELIPE

CARTAGENA PORTALATIN) C

134-847 Sub A 8

X134-758 Sub A 16.

Instant Report, Page_ 5

B.*

(COVER PAGE) •

CONFIDENTAL

NW 54463 DooId: 32328233

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 97-387

On May 27, 1963, Investigation on Northwest First

Street, Miami, disclosed there is no number 2335.

Mrs. G. NELKEN, 2333 Northwest First Street,

advised there had been no change of numbers on this street

during the period of time in which she lived there, which

was an eight-year period. She advised there was no one

by the name of BALDOMERO GONZALEZ PARDO residing or living

in the near vicinity as far as she knew.

On May 27, 1963, investigation on Southwest First

Street reflected there was no such number as 2335.

Mrs.

J. MOSCALELLI, 2325 Southwest First Street, advised there

was no such number as 2335, and that the numbers on that

street had not been changed at anytime in the recent

past.

She stated she knew no one named BALDOMERO GONZALEZ

PARDO.

On Juné 6, 1963, MM I-2, a former Dominican(5]

officialwho knows the subject advised he had no information

that the subject was connected' in any way with the Dominican

Republic (DR) •

He said he had no information concerning

any recent activities on the part of the subject.

On June 20, 1963, MM T-l advised that the subject

had not called or contacted IAUREANO IBARRA, with whom he

formerly resided at 5210 Northwest Second Terrace, Miami,

since his last visit in approximately January or February

of 1963.

He said to the best of his knowledge GARCIA

is in Tampa, engaged in some business there, and the

Informant had heard nothing which would indicate CARCIA

1s involved in any plot of plan in connection with the

Dominican Government, or that he is connected in any way

with the TRUJILLO family.

5.

NW 54463 DooId: 32328233 Page 3

---

