# docid-32321906

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10378-10064

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

NO

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1997

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321906

115

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

375

Precedence: DEADLINE 05/01/1997

Date:

04/01/1997

To:

New Orleans

Attn: Brenda M. Thompson

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 6362

Contact:

Brian J.

Fields, Ext. 9535

Approved By: Reeley Carol I ill lua

Drafted By: Fields Brian J BiT

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title:

John F. Kennedy Records Collection Act

of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the governments' production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRE reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act allows or opens the document in full.

The

ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find any additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1997.

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

Enclosures:

ARRB letter requesting material.

Details:

On March 10, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal

request to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

i have a bear aga

Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

New Orleans

should conduct a search of its office for

the listed items. If New Orleans is aware of any administrative

records they may have maintained outside the normal index system,

they should include those areas in the search. If any documents

related to the matters are found, please forward the documents to

the JFK Task Force.

ENCLOSUR:

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized as an

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

form.

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act. If New Orleans needs a copy,

they should copy the documents or material before sending to the

workpaper

detached

Ce2F HO 1029205-3392

DocId: 32321906

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

:

TO: New Orleans

Affairs

Re:

From: Office of Public and Congressional

62-HQ-1029205, 04/01/1997

JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for files and all references on

Edward Scannell Butler, Ji. and the Information Council of the

Americas and please forward all

files to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force,

Attention Brian J. Fields, Room 6362.

If you have any questions, please call Brian J. Fields

at (202) 324-9535.

DooId: 32321906

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO: New Orleans

Affairs

Re :

From: Office of Public and Congressional

62-HQ-1029205, 04/01/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS

Conduct a search of your office for all records

pertinent to Edward Scannell Butler, Jr. and the Information

Forward any material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention Brian J. Fields, Room

The results should be received at FBIHQ no later than

C.0.B. 05/01/97.

1

1

- Carol L. Keeley, Room 6362

- LuAnn

Wilkins,

Room 6362

1 - Brian J. Fields, Room 6362

3

DooId: 32321906

Page 4

---

