# docid-32301709

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10279-10044

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4474-604

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Masass1natlon recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/08/1969

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

OBA, PRISONER, FEDERAL PENITENTIARY, MIRR, CUBAN POWER,

PLANNING, FUTURE BOMBINGS, SUCCESSOR, JIMENEZ, MARCELINO

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

09/15/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932 DocId: 32301709

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDERTHAL

VIA TELETYPE

FEB 8 1969

ENCIPHERED

SECRETI

WA 04

530PM URGENT 2-8-69 LAS

TO BUREAU AND ATLANTA

FROM

MIAMI (105-2855) (P)

"CODE"

A JUNES

Mr.

Tolson

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop.

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

otrad

rale.

Rosen.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

DECLASSIFIED BYSPETOLE

ON7/30/94..d7K 0100.000

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

211,326

(MIRR). IS - CUBA.

Clasented by

Declass

V ON

AR /23/33

THE MIRR IS A REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION OF CUBAN

EXILES, HEADQUARTERED IN MIAMI UNDER LEADERSHIP OF

ORLANDO BOSCHAAVILA. FLa

ga

ON FEBRUARY ONE LASI, MM ONE THREE THREE SEVEN - S,

WHO IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH SOME MEMBERS OF MIRR

AND ITS AUXILIARY ACTION GROUP CUBAN POWER AND WHO HAS

FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN PAST, ADVISED THAT

LE MARCELINO GARCIAN JIMENEZ WAS PLANNING TRIP TO ATLANTA,

GEORGIA, SOON FOR PURPOSE CONTACTING BOSCH, NOW PRISONER

IN FEDERAL PENITENTIARY, IN ORDER OBTAIN WRITTEN STATEMENT

4610F

SUCCESSOR AS CIVILIAN DELEGATE OF MIRR AND

BOSCH'S ORDERS

CONCERNING FUTURE SHIP BOMBINGS. BY

CUBAN POWER

Homultion

arluned de

END PAGE ONE CONCE MORE

тесті

and v navea animed of

centerits: +758-2-8-69-15

I TELETYPED TO: trou,

17 FEB 12 1959

HH 53932

DоcТd: 32301709

Page 2

---

## Page 3

GONFIDE

SEC

FET

PAGE TWO

MM 105-2855

ON FEBRUARY EIGHT, INSTANI, MM ONE THREE THREE SEVEN -

S ADVISED THAT DR. MYRIAM BOSCH, MD, WIFE OF ORLANDO

BOSCH, DISCLOSED THAI SHE WILL VISIT BOSCH IN FEDERAL

go

PENITENTIARY, ATLANTA,. ON SUNDAY, FEBRUARY NINE, NEXT.

SHE SAID THAT GARCIA CANNOT VISIT BOSCH SINCE HE IS NOT

A FAMILY RELATION. (&

)(n)

MM ONE THREE THREE SEVEN - S RECEIVED IMPRESSION

THAT MRS. BOSCH WILL RECEIVE FROM HER HUSBAND ANY MESSAGES

OR ORDERS INTENDED FOR GARCIA dIM)

BOSCH WAS CONVICTED IN MIAMI, NOVEMBER FIFTEEN, LAST,

ALONG WITH EIGHT OTHER CO-DÉFENDANTS, ON CHARGES RELATING

TO SHIP BOMBINGS, CONSPIRACY AND EXTORTION. FEDERAL

JUDGE, MIAMI, HAS DENIED MOTION DEFENSE COUNSEL TO

RELEASE BOSCH ON BOND PENDING APPEAL ON GROUNDS THAT

BOSCH WOULD BE DANGER TO COMMUNITY IF RELEASED.

GARCIA, ELDERLY, LONGIIME CONFIDENTE AND MILITANT

ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH, HAS RECENTLY BEEN SPEARHEADING

EFFORTS TO RAISE FUNDS AND OBTAIN FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND

END PAGE TWO

COMFIDENTSAL

SECRET

NW 53932 DooId: 32301709 Page 3

---

