# docid-32145725

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10077-10102

RECORD_SERIES: CV

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-265-101

Released under the John

f. Rennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ARENDT, HOWARD W.

TO:

SAC, CV

TITLE:

DATE:

06/12/1964

PAGES:

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/03/1996

Redact

JR, ASSOC, INFORMANT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/22/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32145725

Page

1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

5010-106-05

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, CLEVELAND (44-265)

FROM:

SA HOWARD W. ARENDT

SUBJECT:

JACK I. RUBY - SUBJECT;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM

(DECEASED)

CIVIL RIGHTS

DATE:

6/12/64

The Bureau on 6/4/64, advised à number of offices

that the President's Commission looking into the assassination

of President JOHN F. KENNEDY was most interested in having

EILEEN REDDON, aka., immediately located and interviewed

regarding a statement she made to FBI agents in Los Angeles,

California in 1956.

REDDON was a former subject of a closed WSTA case

in which Cleveland was office of origin; however,

she had

not been seen in the Cleveand area for about four

years.

CV-85-c on 6/5/64, telephonically contacted SA

ARENDT, at which time she was asked if she knew the current

location of REDDON. CI said she did not; however, REDDON'S

closest associate in Cleveland was a lesbian named NIKKI

SHAW, 2549 Kenelworth Avenue, Cleveland Heights, Ohio,

telephone YE 2-2614.

cI said that SHAw formerly worked as

a bartender at Joann's Bar, 1600 Page Avenue, Cleveland,

which is a homo-sexual hangout.

CI said that SHAW was the manager of the homosexual

hangout called the "Down Beat Club" when REDDON operated

this place in Cleveland several years ago.

She likewise

said that SHAW was going to testify as a state witness for

the Cleveand Heights Ohio Police Department concerning a

burglar by the name of PETER TITUS.

CI: suggested that SHAW be contacted as she felt

certain she would know the current location of REDDON.

1 - 137-1 Sub A

HWA/ks]

(2) pal

I SCARCHED

44-265-101

119EXE0

SENALIZED

Ashiday

MW 53025 DocId: 32145725 Page 2

---

