# docid-32334058

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

• Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10051

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 87-58729-36

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/25/1961

23

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: • Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HW 45876 DocId: 32334058 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OTHER 4

мат 87-14090

With respect to this theft having baen fingered

by JOSEPH PATRICK VALENZA tO CHARLES J. "CHAMP" GAGLIAHO,

the following 18 set forth:

CHARLES J. CAGLIANO 13 a top jewel thief of tho

Miam1 Office, Bureau file 87-53596. CAGLIANO'& activities

have baen under Investigation by the Miami Office since

March 28, 1960. He is known to be a house and motel

promlar and to engage in store burglaries, particularly

2o3rd Befe

where safor are Involved. Mrs. RUTH HUNT, 3341 Northwest

103rd Street, whose nose appears in the details of this

report, as advising that GAGLIANO WAS aI hiS rOsIdenCe On

the evening of March 20, and the sorning of March 21, 1961,

18 & neighborhood source who 18 contacted frequently and

saado avare of CAGLIANO's activities as a burglar.

a former PCI of the Miami

Office, vas in contact with GAGLIANO prior to this theft

and following the theft, and advised that GAGLIANO gave

no indication that he was involved. I

_believes that

should CAGLIANO have been Involved in any manner in a

theft as large so instant case, he would have known about

same.

- INFORMANTS -

..The following Information le set forth which

relates to the contact of informante concerning this case.

PCI HENRY SCHECHTMAN advised SA WILLIAM L. EDDY

on March 21, 1961, that he had no information concerning

this theft of the subjocte thvolved. He advised It was

common knowledge among thieves that the victin's had very

good jewelry and that she wore this jewelry, being quite

and that

obvious with it. SCHECHIMAN advised that he has not

seen EDWARD PURDY in the Miami area, either prior to or

after this theft and does not believe that PURDY 18 ln

this locality.

M.

- COVER PAGE •

HW 45876 DocId: 32334058 Page 2

---

## Page 3

194 87-14090

M4 644-C 18 presently incarcerated at Ralford

state Prison, Ralfora, Plorida, and 18 not avallablo for

Interview. Prior to his being incarcerated, HM 644-0

mentloned that EDHARD PURDY had discussed with the

Infomant the fact that the owners of the Hofbrau Haus

would be a good "score".

Miami sources who have in the past been aware of

PURDY'& presence in the area, vere contacted and norse

have know FURDY to be in this vicinity during the month

of March, 1961.

On the afternoon of March 21, 1961, MM 722-c

telephonically contacted SA H. WAYNE SWINNEY from Jackson-

ville, Florida, advising he had juat read a newspaper

account of the

robbery of the owners of the Hofbrau Baus

Rostaurant, Hallandale. Informant volanteered his opinion

this score might well have been pulled by JOSEPH MEROLA

of Miami Beach, Inasmuch as MM 722-C in the past had

heard MEROLA comment concerning the axpensive jewelry in

possession of these victims. Informant advised the

conversation referred to had taken place several years ago

and MM 722-C had beard MEROLA had been attending the horse

at Gulfstrean Park (located near the Hofbrau Haug

Restaurant), and might have stopped into the Hofbrau

Haus Restaurant, all of which possibly reminded MEROLA

of this score.

Informant further advised he had learned in the

past that EDWARD PURDY, formerly of Miami but for the

past year or longer has lived in Chicago, had also been

interested in this score and MM 722-C had heard PURDY

discuss same saveral years ago.

14 722-C stated that jewelry owned by these

victims vas beautiful and expensive jewelry; that he

himself had observed this jewelry several times, and that

sost all the jewal thieves known to MM 722-C knew of the

Jevalry in victia's possession.

- COVER PAGE -

NW 45876 DocId: 32334058 Page 3

---

## Page 4

*M 87-14090

On the late evening of March 23, 1961, MY 722-c

telephonically contacted 8A PRUE C. CLINKSCALES

from

How York City, making reference to infornation furnished

1n his previous telephone call. MM 722-C advised he had

just been in contact with an acquaintance in New York City,

who asked MM 722-C if be would be interested in handling

a jewelry thaft or "heiat" in sew York, Involving an

elderly voman....

M 722-C reported he told this

acquaintance that because of other personal business in

which MM 722-C was engaged at that time, he declined to

handle the score for this acquaintance, but indicated

some interest and willingness to handle the sale of the

loot (a large diamond Iing). MM 722-C advised this

aoquaintance indicated, without specifically so stating,

that the score was all lined up; that the acquaintance

was in need of lmmediate cash; that the acquaintance bad

been trying to get in touch with JOSEPH MEROLA'& two boys,

names stated only as PAT and MIKE, but these to

individuals had baen busy working for MEROLA and the

acquaintance had been unable to get in touch with them.

MM 722-C advised his acquaintance indicated he knew these

two individuals, had possibly used them previously on

scores, had confidence in their ability to pull scores,

and that the to individuals had been busy handling jobs

for MEROLA.

MM 722-C again mentioned, as was previously

reported by him, that he had net two individuals described

by MM 722-C a8 "heavies" at the Harbor Lounge, Miami

Beach, on january 1, 1961, when a group of friends,

Including MEROLA, were at that night club. MEROLA

had not introduced the two individuals for some reason

not known to MM 722-C, but later that evening, Doc

ROBBINS, acquaintance and close associate of MEROLA,

yno was also present, introduced the too individuals to

MM 722-C a8 friends of MEROLA, uho vare from Chicago. "

HM 722-C continued that from information learned in Bew

0.

- COVER PAGE -

NW 45876 DocId: 32334058 Page 4

---

## Page 5

на 87-14090

York City, these individuals are from Chicago, but

apparently have worked and are known to jewel thieves in

the few York area. Although he could not be certain,

MM 722-C stated his opinion that JOSEPH MEROLA could

very possibly have been "the man bahind the robbery of the

3222.

OrTBIR of Hofbrau Haus".

On Apr11 3, 1961, MM 722-C advised that be had

just laarned that during the past two or three weeks,

MEROLA reportedly sold to the two men working for his,

known to MM 722-C only as PAT and MIKE, a 1959 Chris

Craft speed boat, about 20 feet long, for which MEROLA bad

previously told HM 722-C he had paid $6,300.00.

Inforsant did not learn the name of any identification

number for this boat, and stated that due to circumstances

at the time, he had been unable to make any further

Inquiry along this 11ne.

In preparation for interview of MEROLA concerning

this theft, SA H. WAYNE SWINNEY telephonically contacted

MM 722-C on the night of April 3, 1961, for any additional

information. Informant advised

SA SWINNEY that he was

reluctant to make the following a matter of record, as he

felt certain only he (YM 722-C) knew this information.

He continued that he had learned from MEL ADLER, a mutual

acquaintance of MM 722-C and JOSEPH MEROLA, that MEROLA

had come into possession of some expensive jewelry

Immediately following the robbery of the owners of the

Hofbrau Haus Restaurant. Informant advised ADLER told

him MEROLA had sold two pieces of this jewelry locally

had and 85,000.00

In order to obtain $5,000.00 to give to his "two boys"

for them to use in getting out of town until things

"cooled down". MM 722-C advised both he and ADLER

surmised that was part of the Hofbrau Haus jewelry, but

could not be certain. Informant continued, cautioning

that this information should be treated most confidential,

that in conversation with CHARLES DELMONICO, sOn of

CHARLIE "THE BLADE" TOURINE, Miami top hoodlum, DELMONICO

P.

- COVER PAGE -

NW 45876 DocId: 32334058

Page 5

---

## Page 6

881 87-14090

told him he recently purchased tuo places of jewelry fron

MEROLA fOr $7, 500.00. DELMONICO further told MY 722-c

that MEROLA'& "boys" had left town until things cooled

off. Also, MEROLA allegedly offared a large piece of

the jewelry to SAM KAY, A Miaml Beach racketeer and

m1lllonaire.

MM 722-C advised that JOSEPH MEROLA also had

sons weapons with allencers attached to then, which

weapons allegedly belonged to an antI-CASTRO Cuban

group 1n Miami.

Miami has not conducted any Interviens or

opened investigation relating to the alleged purchase

of $7,500.00 worth of jewelry by CHARLES DELMONICO OT

In connection with the alleged offer of a large place of

jewelry by JOSEPH MEROLA tO SAM RAY, inasmuch as these

Individuals are known racketeers and inquiry at this time

in this regard would only jeopardize MM 722-c.

In addition to the above information furnished

by MM 722-C, this informant has previously advised

that he belleves MEROLA's two boys "PAT"' and "MIKE" were

the individuals responsible for & number of kidnapinge

of well to do individuals which have occurred on

Miami Beach. These kidnapings consisted of the foreible

taking of individuals and shaking them down for a sun of

money. One such incident was reported to the Bureau by

Miami teletype of January 11, 1961, captioned, UNSUBS (2);

HENRY HARVEY HERMAN - VICTIM, KIDNAPING. This individual

was abducted at a stop light, was not transported inter-

state and was released unharmed with the promise that he

would later pay his abducters the money demanded. No

Federal violation was involved since no interstate

transportation occurred.

Information has been received regarding similar

kIdnapings handled in the sams manner, but victims

Q.

- COVER PAGE -

N 15876 DocId:32334058 Page 6

---

## Page 7

HA 87-14090

that "PAT"' and "KIKE" vere in the Miani area on the

avening of March 24, 1961, and left Miami on the early

sorning of March 26, 1961. It is also noted that DIMARE

march %o,

was killed with a .25 callber veapon, and that this is

the caliber of the veapon stolen from the DORIGOs in the

robbary.

On Apr11. 12, 1961, MM 722-C advised be bad

been talking to JOSEPH MEROLA, at which time MEROLA WaS

concerned over the FBI Involving hin in this case. la.

stated MEROLA stated there vere only two or three

individuals who could have reported to the FBI about this

netter, and was, according to the informant, Insinuating

that he, Informant, night possibly be furnishing such

Information.

The informant further stated 1t vas hie opiaion

that SAM KAY had not actually bought any of the jevalry

MEROLA had had for sale. The informant stated that he

belleved "the outfit in Indianapolis" got 1t. He was

questioned as to whom he had reference, and advised be

was referring to GENE SAN SOUCIE, who was presently a

partner of MEROLA and who was a wheel in the Pension Fund

of the Teamsters Union. He stated he knows personally

that SAN SOUCLE has bought expensive good pieces of

jewelry in the past.

with reference to the "two boys", the informant

knows MEROLA had working In this area and who the informant

belleves pulled the Hofbrau Faus score, he stated there

nas an individual from New York in Miami looking for these

"two boys" to pull a score in New York. He stated be

thought this individual had returned to New York, but

determined he was still in Miami. He was questioned as

to the Identity of this individual, and advised he vas

RED POLLACK. He stated POLLACK has a woman in How York

who has a twenty carat diamond ring and an expensive

diamond bracelet that he, POLLACK, wants heisted.

S.

- COVER PAGE -

/ NH 45876 DocId: 32334058

Page 7

---

