# docid-32305394

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-664

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

• FROM: SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/22/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305394

Page 1 •

391

---

## Page 2

['Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Pecords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-1472017575

1-4) (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont _

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans®

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

URGENT

8-22-62

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

INFO SAC NEWARK

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

221900

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA - AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

RE MY TEL AUGUST 21, 1962 AND PHILADELPHIA TEL CALL

NEWARK THIS DATE.

PH 614-C-TE ADVISED AUGUST 21, 1962, ANGELO BRUNO RECEIVED

TELEPHONE CALL FROM MADELINE COSTELLO, WIFE CHARLES COSTELLO,

FROM MIAMI, FLA. MADELINE REPORTEDLY TOLD BRUNO SHE WAS IN

MIAMI AND FLYING TO PHILADELPHIA FROM MIAMI APPROXIMATELY 1 PM,

AUGUST 21, ARRIVING PHILADELPHIA LATE EVENING AUGUST 21, AND

WOULD BE ACCOMPANIED BY 4 CHILDREN.

SUBSEQUENTLY BRUNO CONTACTED CHARLES COSTELLO AND COSTELLO

APPARENTLY TOLD BRUNO HIS WIFE WAS CONFUSED ABOUT FLYING TIMES,

THAT SHE WOULD ARRIVE PHILADELPHIA APPROXIMATELY 7 PM, AUGUST 21

AND HE, CHARLES, WOULD PICK HER AND CHILDREN UP AT AIRPORT AND

STOP BY BRUNO'S

• HOME FOR SHORT VISIT.

PHILADELPHIA INFORMANTS DO NOT BELIEVE COSTELLO AND WIFE

ARE NOW IN PHILADELPHIA.

92

2717-

TO MIAM

DXUG281962

REG 18

18 AUG 23 1962

if the intebligence

to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested-that it be suitably

DocId: 32305394

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14°2017 •

1-41 (REv: 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

x* Radio

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach _

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan .

Tovel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Sand

• Teletype

PAGE TWO

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

221900

INFORMANT INDICATED BRUNO ASKED MADELINE IF SHE HAD PICKED

UP "THE MAIL FROM CHUCK," WHO APPARENTLY SAID SHE HAD NOT.

DURING CALL WITH COSTELLO, BRUNO TOLD CHARLES HIS WIFE DID NOT

PICK UP MAIL BUT IT DID NOT MATTER BECAUSE HE, BRUNO, WAS GOING

TO VISIT MIAMI: COSTELLO, ACCORDING TO INFORMANT, TOLD BRUNO

HE, TOO, PLANNED TO VISIT MIAMI. INFORMANT DID NOT LEARN DATE

PROPOSED VISIT BUT STATED HE

DID NOT BELIEVE IT WOULD

BE UNTIL AFTER AUGUST 26.

PH 614-C-TE AND PH 623-C# ADVISED BRUNO TOLD CLOSE ASSOCIATE,

FRANK NICOLETTI, THAT BOTH DEAN MARTIN AND FRANK SINATRA WOULD

ATTEND DAUGHTER'S WEDDING RECEPTION.

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

5:33 PM:

BMP

Pare intelligence co pred in the bee erase rap be diseminated ouseide she Bureau, it is suggested that it be suicably

DocId: 32305394 Page 3

---

