# docid-32567997

## Page 1

FD-31 (ReT: 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in:

A IRTEL

Via

CONFIDENTIA /8/62

"SECRET

or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

VA

- 8R1GEIC1

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TROM:

SAC,

WrO

Passined

SPRMACE

Declassify on: DADY JFK

LOUIS HENRY

JONES

IS

- CUBA

(Bufile 105-98177)

(WFOfile 105-42974) (RUC)

LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES

IS - CUBA

(Bufile 105-98176)

(WFOfile 105-42975)

31147en 95168 Sus

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(00:DE)

For the information of CI, LOUIS HENRY JONES

and hiswife, LENNA SCHWEITZER JONES reportedly departed

from Mexico

for Cuba on 5/1/61,

Investigation reveals

their passports were not validated by the U.S. Department/

of State for such travel.

It would assist in

this

investigation if their

actual presence in Cuba could be

further confirmed.

In regard to the above, it is noted that on

11/6/61, WF 1262-5*

• who has furnished reliable information

THLAU

REASON

DATI

Mr. Tolson.-

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr.-

Mr. Callahan*

Mr. Contad.-

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Lalon

Mr

Rosen st

Mr

Dutivan

Mr. l'avel -

Ma: Trotter.

Tele. room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

UNEECORDED COPY FILED IN

105=

981%6

Bureau

Cincinnati (R)

2

-Detroit

(105-6317)

(105-6316)

2 - WFO

JES: skh

(10)

AIRTEL

C. C. Wick

Approved:

ALL IRFORMATION CONTAINED

REC-II: 105-281725

NOV 16 1961

mind

SECRET

IDENTIASM

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

HH

45823 DocId: 32567997 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECR

WFO 105-49274

LILLIAN I CLOTT. In connection with the death of CLOTT;

the informant advised that the Ministry of Foreign

Relations had advised that the death occurred on 10/31/61,

at the home of LOIS JONES and LENNA SCHEITLER in Havana.

It was pointed out that CLOTT was killed by her husband

MANUEL ROMERO, who committed suicide following the killing.

The killing was motivated by marital difficulties and

the body is being held for the family. In regard to BRilL,

the Cuban Ministes of Foreign Relations impljed authorization

to the Embassy of Czechoslovakia for issuance of a visa to

BRILL in the event she wished to travel to Cuba in connection

with her daughter's death

On 2/26/53, EMMA ROBINSON, former WE 760-5

(deceased, protection still deemed desireable), reliable

in the

past, advised that LILLIAN LEONA CLOTT was

nember of the

that time, (lamunist Party in Washington, D.C., at-

A similarity is noted between the names of

captioned subjects and the names of LOIS JONES and LENNA

SCHEITLER at whose home CLOTT was killed.. It is entirely

to the subject's of instant investigation.

possible that the names furnished by the iguant refer

LEAD

CINCINNATI DIVISION

AT COLUMBUS, OHIO

VACB Is requested to contact M. BRILL, 1158 Norris.

Drive, Columbus, Ohio, and through information she has

received relative to the death of her daughter attempt

to verify residence of captioned subjects in Cuba:

It

should be bornein mind that BRILL may also be in possession

of information relative to the activities of the

subjects

in Cuba:

Results of interview with BRILL should be

furnished to DE for the assistance of that office

In the event information originating with We 1262-s S

is utilized in a form suitable

for dissemination,

the infor-

mation should be properly paraphrased and given the classifica

tion of "Confidential" (inasmuch as it reflects our investigativelu

interest in a diplomatic establishment of a foreign power and

alsobecause the information reported could reasonably result

in Identifiation of a confidential informant of continuing

value and compromise his future

effectiveness, thered

LITHAL

....

NW 45823 DooId: 32567997 Page 2

---

