# docid-32313425

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10330-10036

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-107261-317

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PD

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/28/1964

20

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

i HH 53130

12

DocId: 32313425

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3-6

FD-268 (Rer.-5-1-58)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PORTLAND

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

KANSAS CITY

TILE OF CAL

"MINUTEMEN"

DATE

2/28/64

REPORT MADE BY

LEONARD E. FRANK

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/19 - 2/27/64

ALL IUFOSMATION CONTALL

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

GATE O

TYPED BY

ms g

REFERENCES:

Report of SA LEONARD E FRANK, 2/18/64, at

Portland;

Bureau airtel to Portland dated 2/20/64;

Portland airtel to Bureau dated. 2/25/64.

• 7

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

ADMINISTRATIVE

PD I-I 1s PD 497-S who 1s

a member of "Minutemen"

and has number 9655 in the organization.

Reference Bureau airtel to Portland 2/20/64, paragraph

three, Instructed Portland to Include pertinent Information from

the "Special Bulletin"

and the 2/1/64 issue of "On Target" in a

report. Portland is not

aware of all the facets of the investi-

gation relating to the "Minutemen" but felt that all of the

material in "Special Bulletin" and that in "on Target,

excepting

• the Reuther Memorandum was pertinent to this investi

gation and could not be summarized without losing some of the

meaning.

The Reuther Memorandum itself was summarized in an

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

62-107261-

317

7-Bureau (62-10726I) (AM) (RM)

3-Kansas

City

(62-7797) (RM)

2-Portland (62-2511)

c destroyed

Gane

REC- 20

* MAR 4 1964

4604)

EX-108

i +1

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED FEPORT

AGENCY..

REQUEST REED..

0S1

62

RAO

DATE FWD. --

LOW EWE

+ 8-13-619

NOTATIONS U:I

HH- 53130

DocId: 32313425

Page 2

---

## Page 3

=D=204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy 10:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

LEONARD

2/28/54

62-2511

"MINUTEMEN"

FRANK

Ofice: Portland, Oregon

Bureau File #:

62-107261

Choracter:

INFORMATION CONCERNING

(INTERNAL SECURITY)

Synopsis:

"Minutemen"

reported.

announces that the

"Minutemen" organization 1s object of an intensive investiga

sion by FBI and other Federal agencies.

Members told that in

view of gradual take-over of Government by communists they must

resort to secrecy

ship.

"on Parger yed all "Minutemen"

activities and deny member

2/1/64, monthly "Minutemen"

publication,

asserte that United States is rushing to a "socialist police

statel

and suggests that Christian Americans and conservatives

may have so topy unden irate communtat nethods if they hope

for uitimate

sacrE! "Reuther Memorandum' "arget" contains remint of alleged

to ROBERT KENNEDY concerning 51ze,

activities, influence and menace of

States.

"Ón Target"

radical right in the United

relates "facts" about Marxist background

and communist association of WALTER and VICTOR REUTHER.

ALL INCORDIA MALE CONTALS

4: 8-13-92 9803RDOaL

NH 53130

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outs ide

your agency.

DooId: 32313425

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PD 62-2511

DETAILS:

AT PORTLAND, OREGON

On February 15, 1964, PD T-l made available to the

Portland Office of the FBI copies of two publications which

he had received that date through the mails from "Minutemen,

Post Office Box 68, Norborne, Missourt.'

These publications

entitled "Special Bulletin" and

"On Target" are quoted below.

"SPECIAL BULLETIN (undated)

"The Minutemen Organization 1s now the object of an

intensive Investigation.

Apparently, this is part of the

announced plan of the 'Warren Commission' to investigate

possible connections between the radical right and the

assassination of President Kennedy.

"All real patriots will recognize that such an 1mpl1-

cation 1s without foundation. If Robert Kennedy had spent as

much time investigating the communist-socialist movement as

he did in worrying about the pro-American movement, then his

brother would probably still be alive.

"This will not prevent the 'conspiracy' (through

the use of the controlled news media) from trying to give the

Impression that the right-wing 1s somehow to blame for Kennedy's

death.

"This is an extremely serious situation.

"Most of our members will already be familiar with

the facts that Earl Warren has voted to favor the communists

in almost every case involving this nation's internal security

that has come before the Supreme Court since he has been a

member of that body.

Most, too, will be aware that when Earl

Warren first heard of Kennedy's

death that he immediately issued

a statement blaming the assassination on 'right-wing fanatics.'

In fact, this investigating committee was set up just three days

alcer the communist newspaper, The Worker, made a suggestion

to that effect.

The Worker also suggested that Earl Warren

be made the head of the committee exactly as occurred.

"Nicholas Katzenbach who was in charge of the Federal

Marshals at Oxford, Mississippi has been named as chief investi-

gator for the Warren Commission,

2

NW 53130 DooId: 32313425 Page 4

---

