# docid-32314239

## Page 1

I Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201 ,

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10335-10166

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-174-1-77

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BU

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/30/1963

• PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

-CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: IB

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32314239

4

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Fal4: 19:

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

3010-100

MAY 1P02 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 38

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, TEI

(Busine

9e-3972

JUNE

)DATE:

10/30/63

FROM

SAC, BUFT. LO (92-174 Sub IT

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

Character of Case

Field Office

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone)

FRED G. RANDACCIO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Buffalo

BU 258-C*

(Technical or

Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom

surveillance placed:

FRED G. RANDACCIO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or

covered:

• .

Moravero's Delaware Texaco

455 Delaware Avenue

Gervice_Center

3. Location of"

New York

monitoring plant:

FORd 0-1

Rec.d

F 1.

.. ... ..-*:

Io: 503g

Buffalo Citice

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization ..

8/7/61

Installation - 8/22/61

Building location of installation

demollshed on or about 1/28/63.

Reinstalled 5/1/63.

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places:

BU 258 C* Installed 4/24/61, 28 Elmwood Ave., Buffalo; discontinued

7/17/61.

Transferred to above location on 8/22/61. BU 264-C*

Installed in apartment of subject's paramour, DARLENE GRANN, 51

6. If Instalation Bu

Buttalo

12/7/61.

Discontinued 6/29/62.

Reinstalled

technical surveillance, answer following questions: 9/24/63.

a. Is a trunk line utilized?

Not applicable.

•b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

1 - Bureau

(aM)

1 - Burralo

Registered Mail

FBJ: jmü

(2)

92-174 Aud/=77

o ut

DocId: 32314239 Page 2

---

## Page 3

BU 92-174 Sub 1

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

used and location of each:

8. Is the Installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See attached.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO

11. Number of live Informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject 1s known to seven live informants but none are in a

position to furnish Information of nature furnished by BU 258-0*.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

None. Plant at Buffalo

office.

b. Give total number of other

surveillances monitored at same plant. 10

- 2 -

DocId: 32311239 Page 3

---

