# docid-32309680

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10300-10046

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-31-434

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DEVLIN, JOHN PATRICK

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1963

PAGES:

87

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, LCN, MEMBERS, GAMBLING ACT, GRAND

JURY, LEGAL BUSS, CRIMINAL ACT, NJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IB, INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.l

NW 45927

DocId: 32309680

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEWARK

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

OTip

PROGRAM

DATE

6/27/63

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN PATRICK DEVLIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/15/62 - 6/21/69

TYPED BY

mm

AR

10

REFERENCES

Newark report of SA JOEN PATRICK DEVLIN 12/20/62.

- p* -

ENCLOSURES

TO THE BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum dated

6/27/63 setting forth characterization of informants in

captioned case.

ADMINISTRATIVE

No known citizen groups organized to combat the

criminal element in existence in the New Jersey division at

this time.

The following substantive cases have been opened

and investigated as a result of investigation under the

APPROVED

criminal Intelligeng BreaT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

3

Bureau (Bu

1

USA, Newark

62-19-3%-

11911

454

-

New York (Info)

-

Miami (Info)

-

Las Vegas (Info)

10 •UL 1 1963

Philadelphia

(Info)

- Newark (92-1236)

Dissemination Record of Attacked Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwle

How Fwd.

By

2 JUL 2 3 1963

FY:

REP-17

NW 45927 DocId:32309680 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NK 92-1236

3. LUBUCHER, JR.; ET AL, ITWI

ANTHONY PINTABONA, ITAR

GEORGE BONOWITZ, ITWP

ROBERT WARS, ITWP

GEORGE SMITH, ITWP

(FNU) TREZZA, ITWP

JOHN STRICKLAND. BARBER SHOP, ITWE

JOHN STETSKO, ITWI

DANIEL CALABRESE, ITAR

A. AFELLI, ITWI

UNSUB; Location at 511 Ilth Street, Union City, N.J., ITWI

DANIEL, CALABRESE, ITWI

DONALD SALANTIE,

ITWI

JOSEPH RUSSO, ITWI

HENRY DINSK,

ITWP

NICHOLAS BUFANIA, ITWP

MICHAEL CASOLARO, ITWP

ALFRED W. PEPPER,

ITWI

HARRY BLAKMAN, ITWI

RONALD GRIFFITH, ITWI

A. ANTONICELLO, ITWI

AMERICO BUONACUORE, SAL SCAFIDI, ITWI

UNSUB; PHONE NO. CRESTVIEW 3-8411, EAST ORANGE, ITWI

DAVID GOLDBERG,.

SID ALLEN'S RESTAURANT, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., ITAR

INFORMANTS

NK T-1

NK T-2

NK T-3

NK T-4

NK T-5

NK T-6

NK 2251-C*

JOSEPH VALACHI, (by request)

NK 2327-C

NY 3803-C

NK 2319-C*

PH 591-C*

NK T-7

NK T-8

NK T-9

PH 623-C*

SF 2550-C-TE

NY 3368-C-TE

D

COVER PAGE

, WHY 45927

DocId: 32309680

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont°d)

NK T-10

NK T-11

NK T-12

NK T-13.

NK T-14

NK T-15:

NK T-16

NK T-17

NK T-18

NK T-19

NK T-20

NK T-21

NK T-22

NK T-23

NK T-24

NK T-25

NK T-26

NK T-27

NK T-28

NK T-29

NK T-30

" NK 2251-C*

PCI [

OTHER 4

NK 2344-C

NK 2251-C*

LT. FRANK DANIELLO,

HOBOKEN, NJPD (by request)

NK 2251-C*

NK 2251-C*

NK 2267-C-TS

NK 2313-C*

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE OF

ANDREW SHUMACK, ATTD

NK 2344-C

NK 2346-C-TE

NK 2155-C

PCI |

NK 2367-C

MM 845-C*

PCI

NK 2182-C

PCI SADIE FEDERVERED BY BAWJFK TASK FORGE,

NK 2251-C*

AN 6/9/97 dob / PCP

NY 3884-C

DE. RELEASE IN FULL

COVER PACE

TI RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL /

306/6206

. NW 45927

DocId: 32309680

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont'd)

NK T-31

NK T-Sg

NK T-33

"OTHER 4

NK T-34

NK T-35

NK T-36

NK T-37

NK T-38

NK T-39

NK T-40

NK T-41

NK T-42.

NK T-43

NK T-44

NK T-45

NK T-46

NK T-47

NK T-47

NK T-49

NK T-50

PCI

NK CS 2342-C

RAYMOND J. BITTEL,

Retail Credit Co.

744 Broad Street, Newark

(by request)

NK 2319-C*

NK 2362-C

PCI

NK 2319-C*

PCI [

NK 2181-C

PCI I

FRANK W. GORCZYKA

213 Livingston Street

El1zabeth, N.J. (by request)

NK 2213-C

PCI

PCI

PCI

NK 2248-C

PCI

NK 2300-C

NK 2335-C

NK 2308-C

COVER PAGE

NW 45927 DocId:32309680 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NK 92-1236

INFORMANTS (Cont'd)

NK T-51

NK T-52

NK T-53

NE T-54

NK T-55

NK T-56

NK T-57

NK T-58

NK T-59

NK T-60

NK T-61

NK T-62

NK T-63

NK T-Gia

NK T-65

NK I-66

NK T-67

NK T-68

NK T-69

NK T-70

ARNOLD WARSON ROSE (by request)

DET. DANIEL SPISSO,

Middlesex County Prosecutor's

Office (by request)

NK 1887-C

NK 2152-C

NK 2313-C*

NK 2251-C*

FRANK BLAISDELL, City

reasurer, Long Branch, N. J

(be request)

NK 1925-C

PCI

PCI

PCI

PCI

DET. FRANK SENATORE,

CAMDEN, NJPD (by request)

NK 2361-C*

NK 2153-C

NK 2358-C

NK 2361-C*

NK 2290-C

NK 2241-C

PCI

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

NW 15927

DocId: 32309680

Page 6

---

## Page 7

UT

in Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

'ED STATES DEPARTMENT O1

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey

June 27, 1963

USTICE

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

ANTI RACKETEERING

Reference is made to the report of Special Agent

John Patrick Devlin dated June 27, 1963, at Newark,

New

Jersey.

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

NK T-l 1s in a position to furnish infornation

concerning Causa Nostra and especially members of the Vito

Genovese family in New Jersey.

NK T-2 1s a former member of Causa Nostra.

NK T-3 has had long association with criminals

and their activities and was once considered for membership

in Causa Nostra.

NK T-4 has been engaged in criminal activities

for many years and has been confined in varlous penitentiaries

in the United States.

Nº T-5 is in a position to furnish accurate

Information concerning Causa Nostra in New Jersey and

neighboring states.

NK T-6 1s in a position to furnish Information

pertaining to Causa Nostra in the Philadelphia area.

NK T-7 is in a position to furnish reliable

information concerning Causa Nostra particularly regarding

the Angelo Bruno family,

NK T-8 is associated with persons having knowledge

of Causa Nostra activities in the New York area.

NK T-9 has knowledge of certain members of Causa

Nostra.

NK T-10 is familiar with activities of the

Angelo De Carlo group.

sobe vied.

NW 45927 DocId: 32309680

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-11 1s Involved with shylocks in the Hudson

County, New Jersey, area.

NK T-12 is familiar with gambling activities in

the New Jersey shore area.

NK T-13 is familiar with some aspects of hoodlum

activity in New Jersey

NK T-14 is familiar with crime conditions in

Hoboken, New Jersey.

NK T-15 is familiar with hoodlum activities in

North Jersey area.

NK T-l6 1s associated with hoodlums in North Jersey

area.

NK T-17 is familiar with criminal activities in

Hudsos, Essex and Bergen County areas.

NK T-18 is in contact with persons close to the

Angelo De Carlo group.

NK T-19 is familiar with activities concerning

illegal alcohol matters.

NK T-20 is familiar with activities of Anthony

Russo in the New Jersey shore area.

NK T-21 is familiar with associates of Anthony

Caponigro.

_NK T-22 is an ex-convict who associates with

criminals in the Newark area.

NK T-23 associates with gambling element in

North Ward section of Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-24 associates with gamblers in the Newark

area.

NK T-25 1s familiar with some agthewttesy eu Anthalry FORCE

Russo in Miami area.

ON 6/9/97 dab

O RELEASE IN FULL

-2-

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL: DENIAL®

NH 45927 DocId: 32309680

Page 8

---

## Page 9

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK T-26 contacts bookmakers and bets with them.

NK T-27 has many friends among the criminal element

1n Newark, New Jersey.

NK T-28 is acquainted with many Newark area hoodlums.

NK T-29 frequents hangouts of hoodlums.

NK T-30 1s familiar with gambling figures and

activities in the New York area.

NK T-31 1s familiar with conditions at Frankie's

Market, Lodi, New Jersey.

NK T-32 is a person who knows many gamblers.

NK T-33 has access to confidential records.

NK T-34 1s aware of some of the activities of

Newark, New Jersey, area hoodlums.

NK T-35 is in a position to obtain information

concerning criminal activities in the Newark, New Jersey,

area.

NK T-36 is familiar with persons residing in

north Newark and Bloomfield, New Jersey, areas.

NK T-37 is familiar with hoodlum activities in

Newark, New Jersey, area®

NK T-38 1s familiar with gambling activities in

the Plainfield, New Jersey, area.

NK T-39 1s familiar with the criminal element

in Jersey City and Hudson County area.

NK T-40 is a longshoreman on the Hoboken, New

Jersey, waterfront.

NK T-41 deals with gamblers and is in debt to them.

NK T-42 is a convicted burglar and bookmaker who

is well acquainted with gambling activities in northern New

Jersey.

-3-

NW 45927 DocId: 32309680 Page 9

---

## Page 10

CRIME CONDITIONS INNW JERSEY

NK T-43 is an ex-convict who knows Hudson County

area hoodlums.

NK T-44 1s

familiar with gambling activities in

Hudson County.

NK T-45 knows many gamblers and gambling

establishments in Hoboken, New

Jersey.

NK T-46 1s a tavern owner in Jersey City, New

Jersey•

NK T-47 is associated with gamblers. in the Bergen

County area.

NK T-48 1s familiar with hoodlun activities in

the Bergen County area.

NK T-49 1s acquainted with gamblers in the Bergen

County area.

NK T-50 is a former bookmaker acquainted with

gambling activitles in northern New Jersey area.

NK I-5] 1s familiar with some gambling activity

In the Passaic, lew Jersey, area.

the Middlese Cours ared lar math gambling activities in

NK T-S3 Is familiar with Spanish speaking element

In Perth Amboy, New Jersey, area.

NK T-54 1s a prostitute who associates with gamblers

-aad doodlums.

NK T-55 is in contact with associates of Angelo

De Carlo.

NK T-56 Is famtliar with activities of some northern

New Jersey area hoodlus.

NK T-57 has access to official records.

NW 45927

DocId: 32309680

Page 10

---

## Page 11

-

CRIME CONDITIONS IN NEW JERSEY

NK I-58 has contact with gamblers and hoodlums

in the Canden, New Jersey, area.

Candoa, New JErsey, featllar with gamblers active da the

NX I-60 is familiar with local gambling activities

in the Canden, New Jersey, area.

NK T-61 associates with gambling element in Camden,

New Jersey, area.

Now Jersey, Tea, 1s famillar with activities in the Paulsboro,

NK I-63 1s familiar with gambling activitles in the

Camden, New Jersey, area.

NK T-64 is familiar with activities of Herman Orman

and his associates.

NK T-65 associates with the criminal element in

Atlantic City, New Jersey, area.

Atlantic CITy, 66 'S asty, amons Nogro criminal element 1a

NK T-67 is familiar with gambling activities 1n

Atlantic City, New Jersey, area.

NX T-68 is intimately familiar with the criminal

element in Atlantic City, New Jersey.

rides:

NK T-70 has knowledge of numbers and other

gambling activity in the Atlantic City area.

It is the

contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

-

-5-

NH 45927 DocId: 32309680

Page 11

---

