# docid-32331065

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90096-10011

HQ

92-2989-202

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

SEE TITLE

FROM: [Restricted]

TO:

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LET; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32331065

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AODHOBRESPONDENCE TO BE

THE CL

fissIONEr,

R. C. M. POLICE,

OTTAWA

FILE NO. 62 HQ 1180-1-0-56

Your Ref. 163-209

HEADQUARTERS

OTTAWA,

CANADA

January 10, 1964

Mr.

Moss Lee Innes,

c/o United States

Embassy,

OTTAWA, Ontario,

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

FEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIC

DATE 1024.9431528 Mu

Re: Charles TOURINE, aka,

Foreign Police Co-operation

Telephone #699-6438 was installed in

Apartment 104, 136 Kingston Road,

Toronto,

Ontario, during February 1963 and was discon-

nected on October 1,

The subscriber to

this telephone was Miss June MITCHELL

above address Managers Limited, Room

at Reciprocal

who is employed as a stenographer

102, 183

Bay Street,

Toronto. I Reciprocal Managers

Limited is

the holding and managing

company of

Canadian Reciprocal

Insurers of the same

address.

The latter company

engaged in re-insuring

and direct insurance, specializing in fire

coverage.

superintendent at

On December 20, 1963 Road apartment

stated that June MITCHELL resided

Doreen Joan

In Apartment 104 with her g3 te October 1, 1963.

FIELDS from February 1,

When Leaving, FIELDS made the statement that

she was moving to the U.S.A. Mrs. Wheatley

considered both girls to be good tenants;

neither girl entertained men at the apartment,

however, a number of enquiries were received

Wheatley from creditors of Doreen

FIELDS after the apartment had been vacated.

It was learned that the following long

distance calls were made from telephone #699-6438:

13

SEP

14

16

63

63

63

To :

Miami,

Fla.

"

UN 4-1741

UN 4-1741

UN 4-1741

On January 3, 1964, enquiries revealed that

June MITCHELL is

presently residing with her parents,

Mr. & Mrs. Henry DESCHAMPS,

Ontario,

she gave birth to

31 Sharpe Street?, baby.

in the East General Hospital within the past three

Mrs. Alex Riddell

÷29 Sharpe Street,

advised that June MITCHELl has been separated from

Toronto,

her husband, David MITCHElL, for some time.

Further information was received which

ide

.....2

DocId: 32331065 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorts Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

- 2 -

indicated that Doreen FIELDS is in reality Doreen

and that she is presently

HERRON, nee DESCHAMP' DOreen HERRON is separated

residing in Florida.

[rom her husband, Delmar James HERRON

still in Toronto.

Delmar James HERRON may be

identical to the

however, this is not

subject of our FPS #696374,

confirmed,

A check of the Metropolitan Police

Department records failed to reveal an entry for

June MITCHELL or Doreen FIELDS,

however,

is on file a warrant for one Do

age 20-25 years,

5'3",

105 pounds.

do 5, person

is wanted for false pretences but

established that Doreen FIELDS is the same

person as D. FIELDS.

7°

A check is being made in our Crime

indices at this Headquarters and you will be

advised of

any additional information obtained.

Cellaras

E. I. Martin, Supt criminal

Officer in Charge,

Investigation Branch

92-2989-202

DocId: 32331065

Page 3

---

