# docid-32325343

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-90035-10240

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 122-2424-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM:

DOJ

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 09/04/1958

PAGES:

1

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

06/01/1998

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

DocId: 32325343

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleotion Act of 1992

-Hose 2107 ote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson

STANDARD FORM NO.

Me. Belmont.

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMEN

Mr. Tamm

TO

: Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE: September

1g58.or

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

FROM

Malcolm Anderson, Aesistant Autorney General

Tele. Room.

Mr. Holloman

MA :HEP:fms

Miss Gandy.

Criminal Division

123-012-½

SUBJECT: Hearing before the Senate Select Committee on

/ - 1

Improper Activities in the Labor or Management Field

the testimony given

before the above-described Committee

1958 indicates possible violation of

and Esco Motor Company, McKeés Rocks,

11-1

, Out cat

Information reilected by the transcript of the hearings

indicates that Callahan, either diredtly or through Weinheimer,

paid Baker substantial sums of money in order to obtain his

assistance in settling certain labor difficulties encountered

by Callahan's companies.

Accordingly, it is requested that an investigation be

conducted to determine whether sufficient evidence is available

to warrant the institution of criminal proceedings. In addition

to such other investigation as may be necessary, it is suggested

that the investigation should cover the following factors:

1. The nature of Callahan's labor difficulties.

2. The unions representing Callahan's employees.

3.

Baker's union affiliation, assignments and duties.

4.

The nature of Weinheimer's duties with Callahan's

companies and some estimate of his effectiveness.

Weinheimer's affiliation, if any, with any

of the

unions representing Callahan's employees

122 - 24834=1

6. A review of the books of Callahan

ants companzes.

7.

Details regarding the delivery bikhey

15

SEP 5 1958

Weinheimer or Baker.

It is,

also requested that Baker, Callahan and Weinheimer

be interviewed to obtain their statements regarding the alleged

Mit at 2751 south a it stil gith merate they aller

able to furnish pertinent.

information regarding these matters.

ну,

WFo

9/10/58

SEp

1058-

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN 63-403321-

DocId: 32325343

Page 2

---

