# docid-32331330

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90096-10276

HQ

92-2989-240

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

NY

HQ

DATE: 02/28/1968

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT-

v9.1

DocId: 32331330

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

F[-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGICONFIO

NEW YORK

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12112167-2120168

2/28/68

REPORT MADE BY

PAUL G. DURKIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

rcl

CHARLES TOURINE aka

AR

CROLASSIIEO BY SOS MACULER

ON - 60-8-90

Report of SA PAUL G. DURKIN, 12/28/67 at New York.

_P-

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 12/12/67, NY 3610-C-TE advised that CHARLES

TOURINE is back in NYC and has been for the past week or two.

He has not seen TOURINE, however, TOURINE has called him

on the telephone several times.

TOURINE is interested in

having a recorder setup on his

telephone in order to record

all telephone calls.

He is pushing informant to have informant

set this up, however, to date informant has refused to do so

and stated he has no intention of hooking up this recorder

for TOURINE. Informant does not know the purpose of this

recorder, but feels it could be because TOURINE is a "degenerate";

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

NONE

ACQUIT-

CON VIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XvEs NO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

JYES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

bureau (92-2989)

-USA,

SDNY

1-Miami (92-106) (INFO)

1-Newark (92-421) (INFO)

1-Washington Field (92-105) (INFO)

3 - New

York (92-851)

(1-92-658 Sub A)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2989-224059394

SO 03

MAR

4 1968-

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

APPROPRIATE ANCIES

AND ETELD OFFICES

JUTING

Mione

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

CC. ANG, Criminal Division,

Racketeering

Argained Crunc

ST

MIRASS

B9

Category /

MAD

11 A

× 3 1968

Done oh Doclassif

TALI

3/30/28

DocId: 32331330 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-851

CONFID

ANAL

ADMINISTRATIVE CONTINUED

he likes to talk dirty to girls on the telephone and gets

a charge out of it.

It is noted that in the past the same informant

advised that another of the subject's aberrations is stealing

articles when he goes into stores.

He has

a compulsion to

steal

even though in many instances the article is

insignificant in value.

Through liaison the Bureau has furnished the

Swiss Police

since he periodically visits Switzerland.

The Swiss

Police in the event of another visit by the subject will

now take steps to have

him banned upon arrival.

It is noted

that TOURINE is already banned by

England.

Periodic spot checks of the subject's residence

and some of his known NYC hangouts were conducted by SAS

PAUL G. DURKIN and CHARLES G. DONNELLY.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

ANDREW SHUMACK, Sr.,

Investigator, ATTD,

Newark, NJ

(By request)

NY T-2

NY

3610-C-TE

NY T-3

PCI ANN MC MANUS

(Former)

Contacted By

SA KENNETH F. HACKMANN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA PAUL G.

DURKIN

SA

CHARLES G. DONNELLY

_ B-

(COVER PAGE)

(TALJ

92-2989-240

13533

DocId: 32331330

Page 3

---

