# docid-32338835

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/13/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90143-10253

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-370750-88

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LA

HQ

DATE: 02/15/1946

'PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32338835

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT LOS ANGELES

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ONFIDENTIAL

100-21198

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

DATE WHEN MADE

2-15-46

18491M,18,30;

2-1-46

TITLE

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON, with aliases

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT W. HOLLMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - C

HB

DECLASSIPIED BY

08

16-10

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Subject presently employed

as screen writer

by Producer WALTER WANGER.

Informants reveal

that Subject has raised money for allegedly

Communist dominated PEC and Subject will

teach weekly course at PEC on "The American

Heritage".

Subject has been named a member

of the Board of Directors of PEC. Movie Actor

CHARLES CHAFLIN and Subject spoke at funeral

AOUS AGENCIES

A0as

ĐN:

of noted writer THEODORE DREISER, and Informant

discloses LAWSON conferred with negro communist

councilman BEN DAVIS during DAVIS' stay in Los

Angeles.

Analysis of bank account set forth

V862,27

C1 3KI2Mа

6/360

ASK

RETERENCE:

Bosssie:

Rubja/tay

6-23-53

2081583

Report of Special

Agent ROBERT I. HOLLMAN, LOS

Angeles, December, 28, 1946. DECLASSIFIEO BY SS SLOL

-95€

DETAILS:

_ Although, according to Source A, the Subject is stil

interested in writing a screen play based upon an idea suggested by

former movie actor LEW AYRES, the Subject has recently accepted

I a posi-

tion with WALTER WANGER, where he will first do a rewrite job on the

"Merchants of Death".

This story, upon which DOROTHY PARKER has also

been working, alleges that the cause of war is the Impérialistic impulses

of "men in high places". According to Source A, LAWSON is quite andous

to do this story and feels that this type of semi-political

economic

story is the type for which he is best qualafied. ily

24

Bittoo

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE

AND FUNIC

CaSTAOY

STIP

THA SAC

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

POPIOS

DESTIO

25

In Bg01963

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

3: - Bureau (Inc.) DORY IN

3 = Now York (Infgoal lis

- Los Angeles

24

1046

RECORDED

1580

100-3907

* INDEXED

6.

NH 54460

DooId: 32338835

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LA 100-21198

COULDER LINICONFIDRITIAL

"SOURCES

Source B - CNDI LA SSC-4

Source C - CNDI LA-2900

COULDENCH

CIDENTIAU

6

14 54460

DocId: 32338835

Page 3

---

