# docid-32330074

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90089-10109

HQ

2-1622-74

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NI 54460 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

BAUMGARDNER

BELMONT

DATE: 01/26/1961

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330074

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

CONF

ITIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES

Memorder

Tolson

Mohi.

arson's

TO

MY. A. H. Bel

lont

SECRET

E: 1-40-61

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFROM'ON AMORF. J. Baumgardner

- Mr.

Parsons

1

- Mr.

Belmont

Conrad

-De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen -

Trotter

W.C. Sul

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

RELEASE T Me ORMATION

Mr.

Baumgardner

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 10-2-97

÷ Mr.

Simpson

Mr. Evans.

SUBJECT:

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER ROJAS ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

HEREIN IS UNOLASSIFIED EXCEPT

BY2842 PAUl BAlAM

WHERE SHOWNROTHERWISE.

1al9i

By teletype 1-25-61 Miami advised that MM 639-S on that

1-2.4.2

date had stated Kenneth J,X Proctor,

an associate of Masferrer, with

11 Americans and 3 Cubans was going

to leave in a few days on an

expedition against Cuba. They reportedly would steal a boat and

the owner subsequently would report it stolen.

The informant

doubted if the group could obtain arms but Proctor allegedly

they would leave without arms.

telephone call from Cuba instructing him to land at Mamalata, Pinar

del Rio, Cuba, where he would be met by 200 anti-Castro revolutionists

Informant thought this might be a trap on the part of the

TolS CLASS.

REASON-FCIM

E in Cuba.

Cuban Government.

(Central Intelligence Agency, Miami, advised it had

- DATE

no operational interest in the group. Miami notified

'Customs and & U

Border Patrol

contained no arms.

and Customs advised it would take no action if the boa

On 1-25-61;

Inspector J. A. Sizoo telephonically advised

SAC. Teague, Miami, to locate and interview Proctor and such of his

associates

as might be available and advise the Bureau.

Miami has now

advised Proctor and four companions were

interviewed on the night of 1-25-61 and each denied knowledge of

any invasion plans claiming they are unacceptable to anti-Castro

BY 5668. 520

groups. •Proctor, however;

had in his possession a sketch of

appeared to be a

portion of Cuba and which bore the names of

(JEK

"Mamalata and Guajaibon" and also had names ot persons previously

mentioned by MM 639-SJas being connected with the expedition.u

Proctor claimed he found these papers in a lobby of his hotel.

Provisions of neutrality statutes and possible consequences of any

invasion were pointed out to the persons interviewed.

They claimed

they realize such an expedition could be embarrassing to the United

States and they would discontinue their assoctation with othere

anti-Castroites.

AS BEG 47

RECOMMENDATION:

2 JAN 31 1961

OH n

It is recommended

state, Department of Jus

, suggested memorandum

bat the above information bedissemtnated

and other interested agates.

Attached

Declassify ove

VOR

(JAN)

Enclosure

2-1622 pu

RDS: pw/ (5)

5 9 FÊB 6

HH

54460

DooId: 32330074

Page 2

196V

CONFIDENTIAL

---

