# docid-32313253

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10326-10181

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-35253-1230

Released under the John

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54027 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/13/1963

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

DooId:32313253

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

SHOWN OTHERWISE.

DIRECTOR,

XBI: (109-534)*

9/13/63

CLASSIFIED

SAG,

NEW YORK (105-35253)

EXTENDED

ANB383/3)10/81

REASON

FOR

ANTI • PIUKE, CASTRO

ICIM.

3.3

ACLIVI

IS - CUEN

3-2-98

DATE C

REVIEW FOR

CLASSIFIED BY 5608 SL0/KSR

DECLASSIRICALION 9/13/83

DECLASSIFY CM: 25X

The following Infomation

(JFK)

c being subalated

os shis Infomation could Do detrimental to

Incerepts of the Unfood States.

She onelosed

Information

In being submitted for the guidance of

and 100 pelative to Cha above

captioned aubject nate (4)

ISO ANGOLY 90E

Б10NU102

(u[C) and close assoclace of Da

KILO CAADONA OI01

on 7/30/63 advised Chat

ho had aisriaulty. in obtaining

DATE OF

REVIEW

CLASS.

BICCO MINO CARDONA Jesigned as Proalcent of

Che CRG.

ArAgoN stated that In aubaltting to an interviou with

two racionally chows Anturance compantes,

he had been

Intosed by then in lettere stating

Was too closely

Identifled wlin the

ANNEDY AonnAstratton and Chese

nes tolt

STU OF TIMIDE O9 PTIO!

the ChaD

aployment vica Che

сопранов. (.

u)

ARAGON abated that as a remit of failure to

obta la

gratul emplomons aud as a result of tha

atonementioned tester

when he zucalved, he requested, and

received en intery lew wit

General 10H0

that

General

альотое та слас

Moul a dó

every chine

posalble

employment. (2)(u)

anglas

ARAGON

obtatring

Done type

CHIDE

302-591

POST

1205-1742)

SoLo

T0О) 0033 (1020) (1

0134-7027 10914

(105-352537

1220

зарі

(6)

Seerched

Inderes

Filed

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLARSFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

ExCOpT BRACKETS

ткН 2-6-98

MH 54027 Do0Id:32313253

Page 2

---

## Page 3

1X 205-35253

ARAGON also advised on 7/30/63 that he had taken

an examination in Washingion, D.C. during the lacter part

of July, 1963, at the United States Departnont of State In

order to obtain a Job Ston thia deparunent as an

ArAGON Boviaed chat he had

just recelved word that he had passed, the examination and

cho che State Department contemplated utilizing his servicos

ARAGON also advised that this

Job co an interpsetes and Szenslator for the Untted States

Department of State would entail his travelling with vialtone

from Latin Anerica, to various states and to various

universities throughout the Untted States.

ARAGON advised thie

he would receive a flaed daily anount plus $20.00 a day

expenses for each day. ho worked foy the State

Departuent in

the capacity of a translator and interpreter

ARAGON further abated on 7/30/63 that due to hts

past close association with the Dureau, and his confidence and

trust in, the Bureau although he had been inatrueted not

to disclose his ampoolasson,

nevertheless, he ranted the

mason to mow chay as or 04/05 he volla be placed on cho

of $300.00 per month plus expenses.

had boen asiced to porfor certain ansignments for. CIA and

had boon told that he nay, at times,

have to travel toy cho

agpagy to meet and Interylow certain people for chon,

ARAGON requested that his connection with CIA be hold in

the burietoss of confidence andindes no alecunstance should

Chat he diaclosed this connection be mentoned to

CLA.

ARAGON on 9/4/63,

was contacted at whtch time be

stacod that he already had had one asatement fron

Stace Department to travel with a couple of studente from

Bolivia who were ViOLInG

Washington, D.C.

He 2180

ho exposted another asaignnont fron then within a woek

or two Я(u)

RAGON algo adytsed on 9/4/63, that he han made

LOrOREO

cult hide, thich in a

350-10151

HW 54027

DooId: 32313253

Page

3

---

## Page 4

38,

18295-35253

Canadian insurance companies in Cuba, when ESTEVEZ represente-72

ARACON atated that he had contaeted stevez ainoe holne*

him fron Havana and through lEStEVE woked out an

PASSACIO ESLIVES JR.

insane 11zmsl

in now Living tandozonto, Canadabo

ARAGON Advlaed fron his vartous meetings with

repzesentatives of the United States Department of Stato,

CIA and the Departnens of Defense and from contacta anons

Cuben exile croupo, chas he is of che opinion Chat Cho

AnG I-CASTRO

movement at the present time te back in

Che some situation it tag in prior to the invanton of

сubа 3n. Aрт43, 1901-

AncoN adyised, that by

stacement, he meant that, once agnin the CLA te

noting independently of coher Govermental Agenotes and

chas chais activities at the present time aro creatly

zesponsible Individuals after a certain laston has bean

carried out. ARACON stated once again the United States

State Depercent is confined to matteru of a policieal

and econome nature relative to cuba walle the Department

of Defense Is closely watching any military Betivity(g)

in Cuba,

ARAGON advinod that from his own knouledge he le

absolutely postaive that the

following organisations aro

being completely supported

Cho CIA!

Untdad Berglustonna - Thin organtzation

CUTEOUSE TARADS ANG VARTO

months, has done

a Dronendous Job in

settins ous a newspaper, bocciece and various forms

of propaganda which are sent all over Latin Amerien

and are printed in both English and Spanish. ARAGON

also advised that they have put out a booklet

Lacing the arrivals and depescures of a11 foreig

ships to ond zon Cuba,

ARAGoN stated that cho

works done by the organization la vory inpressive

and undoubtecty it has cout a large our of boney

whiah obviously comes from CIA.

3500-10181

HH 51027 DocId: 32313253

Page 1

---

