# docid-32328614

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90076-10129

RECORD SERIES: HQ

- AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/21/1959

4

MARCOS DIAZ LANZ

ROBERT ARTHUR WILLIAMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 45834 DocId: 32328614 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

MAY 2 1 1959

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRIType in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL.

RECISTERED

- DECLASSIER EY SP 8 MACKS ry or Merhod of MailinG)

oN - 21-95

FROM:

NiRE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (134-35458(1)

CLASSIFIED

EXTENDED B

HEASCH FOR

PSI -CULA

POCK CA

DECLASSIFICATY

S.B.

APPROPRIA

IND FIFED

ADVISED

SLIP

DATE

лам

UNN:

On 5/5/59,

St., Miaml, Fla., came

to the Miami. Office and reported that

he had recently

been propositioned by & Cuban who identified

himself as J. SERGE BURRELL, Of Miani, to conduct cereals

investigations for the Cuban

Air Force Intelligence.

said he is employed as Assistant Collection Manager,

Pan Americ

Bank, and that in connection with his duties of recovering

automobiles and collecting money borrowed, he has

come in

contact with many Cuban exiles and revolutionaries in Miami.

a World War II veteran, stated that he would like

to cooperate with the FBI in any

way possible, but at the same

time did not want to violate any laws of the U. So

И)

During the succeeding few days,

advised

he had been recontacted by BURRELl and had been introduced

tO ALONSE MEDALLO BARRIOS, Cuban Consul General, Miami; to

Major MARCOS XIAZ

LANZ, Inspector

and Assistant Chief of the

Cuban Air Force (FAR); to Captain FRANK-FIORINI, an American,

who is presently alleged to be working for the Cuban Air Force

and others.

identified photos of FIORINI and HIDALGO

3,%

RES- 13

Bureau (AM)

(RM)

134-8743-2

•Albapy. (AM)

(RM)

2 - Cleveland (AM)

21.

• St.

Louis: (AM)

'(RM)

20 MAN J1958

(RM)

2 %

• Miani

washington Field: (AM. (RM)

CONND

DENTIAL

GED imbs:

(13)

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

Napla

Per

NAT. INTELL NO

ECT.

OTHER 4

'OTHER 4

UNRECORDED

COPY

FILED IN

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

NW 45834 DocId: 32328614

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MAN 134-354 8(4)

On 5/15/59,

was paid $35.00 by BURRELL

OTHER 4

for services rendered in furnishing information concerning

a Piper Apache Airplane and pilot, in which Cuban Air Force

was interested.CU

It appears that

has an excellent potential

OTHER 4

as a PSI. He has furnished the following background information:

Date of Birth

1/14/25, Duryea, Pa. MA, SY

OTHER 4

Parents

Father

- Rev.

Mother

Service record

Served

in U. S. Air Force, SN

as tailgunner in 99th Bomb Group; flew

51 missions and honorably discharged in

1945 as Staff Sgt. Prior to his discharge,

went AWOL for 97 days as result of wife's

refusal to live with him

Employment

1/57 became employed by Southern Bell

Telephone and Telegraph Co., Miami;

1952 transferred to Ohio Telephone and

Telegraph Co., Toledo, O., where engaged

in installation and construction work;

1954 became Methodist minister while

attending Hartwick College, Oneonta, N. Y.,

and while residing at Mt. Upton, N. Y.,

was pastor of Mt. Upton Methodist

Church, and Rockdale Community Church.

Also served as Chaplain while at Mt. Upton

for Sidney Hospital, Americal Legion,

and Butternut Lodge

515 of Masons at

Gilbertsville, N. Y.;

1957, upon returning Miami, employed by

Life and Casualty Insurance Co. of Tenn.,

for 3 months;

CONFIDE

NTIAL

1957 employed by Lenders, Inc., as

assistant manager for 2 months;

Since 2/58, employed Pan American Bank,

Collection Dept., where his immediate

supervisor is Mr. HOWARD WALTERS. HOMER

SMITH, V. P., Pan American Bank, is his

Department Chief.

=. 2 ∞

NW 45834 DocId: 32328614 Page 3

---

## Page 4

M1 134-354 )R (4)

Previous residences

Beginning 1952, Genoa, Ohio, while

working at Toledo,

St.;

Beginning 1954, Mt. Upton, N. Y.,

no street address, (close friend of

C. I, WADSWORTH, prominent citizen,

Upton, N. Y. ;)

Miami address -

hd St.

Education

Attended Lindsey Hopkins Vacational

School, beginning 1947, receiving

equivalent of high school diploma in

1948;

Beginning 1954, attended Hartwick

College, Oneonta, N. Y.;

Beginning 1956 transferred to State

Teachers College, Oneonta, N. Y.

Marriages

At the age of 16, married MABEL FETTER

of Rineholds, Pa., in May, 1942, at

Elkton, Md.

Divorced in 1946 or 1947,

in Miami.

Stated this marriage was a

big mistake, that his wife was several

years older then he was and in 1946, wife

caused him to be arrested in Philadelphia

for false charge of beating her father.

This charge was dropped and |

is

not certain whether or not he was

fingerprinted and formally charged with

any criminal offense.

In 1948, married BETTY (LNU), who was

former ly employed by Miami PD and FBI,

Miami; divorced in 1948 or 1949, in

Miami;

016610

Third and present marriage to ARLA

MRS. ROBERT ARTHUR

BLANCHE BELL in Miami on 2/25/50. She

is graduate of Nyack Bible Institute,

Nyack, N. Y. She is employed as medical

Miscellaneous

technician by DI. LAWRENCE MEDOFF.

has stated he has a private

pilots Ticense and frequently rents planes

in Miami from Hertz.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

(u)

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

DONET

ITAL

NW 45834 DocId: 32328614 Page 4

---

## Page 5

• 0

191 234-354. 7 4)

LEADS

Bureau is requested to check indices and files

toky pertinent information relating to l

Albany at Oneonta and Mt. Upton, N.

conduct appropriate investigation to determine

Loyalty, rel ability, stability, etc. So: Sog

Cleveland at Toledo and Genoa,

will conduct

similar investigation requested of Albany.

St. Louis at St. Louis, Mo., will contact DDMPRC,

ARC, for all pertinent information relating to

service, record.

(u)

Washington Field and the Federal Aviation Agency,

will check records pertaining tol

Ipilot's license,

for verification and any other pertinent information relating

to his qualifications as a PSI.

Offices receiving copies of this airtel, are requested

to expedite investigation requested as

Jis presently

volunteering information to Miami several times a week,

and is in a position to be of considerable value to this

office in connection with its investigation of revolutionary

matters. X (4)

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

4

NW 45834 DocId: 32328614 Page 5

---

