# docid-32314473

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10336-10121

RECORD SERIES : DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-438-206

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SHELBURNE

TO:

DE

TITLE :

DATE: 02/11/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

VITO GIACALONE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

08/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

Doc1A: 32314473

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the Jour F. Kennedy AsSassination Records CollectIon Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, DETROIT (92-438 Sub 2)

2/11/63

SA JONN L. SHELBURNS

VITO GIACALONE

AR

DUS TO THE SENSITIVE NATURS OF THIS INFORMANT

CARE SHOULD BE

USED

THE DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION.

DE 919-C* advised on 1/29/63 that VITO GIACALONE

had contacted DL 844-C, at which tine a discussion ras held

concerning the tact that bs 344-C had recently been in a tight

According to the Informant, VITO

CLACALONE bag Indicated that he would talk with

FERLITO SO.

that this thing woulo

not happer agais.

The informant also advised that LOU (LNU) had

visited with VITO GIACALONE on this date and that they had

discussed LoU's recent trip to Hawaii.

the informant stated

that VITO GIACALONG had spent a considerable part of the

day posing for and attempting to contact GORGE GEORGE:

In

an effort to locate GEORGE GRORGE, he had contacted Dr. H. A.

prysEr.

essEn bad furnished GIACALONS with a telephone

nunver which had been in the past an office utilized by

GroNGs GronGE in his handbook business..

He also indicated

that one JANICE (LU, vas employed in this office.

According

to the iniornant

• GIACALONG attenpted to locate GEORGS GEORGE

at the number given him by De. PEYSER and had talked with

JANICE,

advised him that GEORGE GEORGE

possibi, located at the michigan tatal Finishing to

The informant stated that GIACALONE was able to reach GEORGE

the Michigan Metal Finishing Co. and they had

ros asa may hourts at alchole house on that orening

According to informant, VITO GIACALONG, Đr.

PEYSER, GEORGE

GEORGE, and

MIKE POLIZZI did play hearts at GIACALONE's.

The informant

also advised that when vITe GIACAlONE

in contact with DS 844-C, he had inquired as to

'the line

on basketball games, and when this information was furnished

GIACALONE had indicated that he did not want to bet at the

odd which were given by DE 844-C but would possibly place a

bet someplace else when he could get better odds.

1 - 92-438 Sub 2)

92-4238

(1- 92-438

(VITO GI ACALONS)

296

SEARCHED.

/ INDEXED.

1 - 92-219

(MICHAEL POLIZZI)

SERIALSE DO FILED/ONES

1 - 165-38 (GEORGE GEORGE)

FEB 1 41963

2 - 137-914 (DE 8449C)

1 - 92-786 (ANTHONY THOMAS)

DETROIT

JLS :vwn

(6)

330 - 10151

DocId: 32314473

Page 2

---

