# docid-32294424

## Page 1

Release u-ter the John F. Kennedy AssassiAsis Rests Collection Act of 1992 11 US 3207 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

124-10213-10200

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-1323

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/12/1968

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

LST, ASSOC, PROPERTY DEEDS, LCN ACT, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v91

DocId: 32294424

14

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107

HOtEl (ReDATE:71-11-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

FBI.

Date:

12/12/68

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

SAC, MIAMI: (92-88) (P)

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, aka

AR

MM 1231-C-TE reported on 12/10/68, meeting held

12/8/68, at Les Violins with following participants:

ANTHONY

PLATE, FRANK MARTIN; and SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

Violins is a Cuban-American Restaurant in Miami. FRANK

MARTIN,

true name

unknown to informant, described by infor-

mant as "number one man" to ANIELLO DELLACROCE, Brooklyn,

N. Y. (GAMBINO Family). MARTIN and PLATE flew into Miami

from NYC on 12/7/68, and met with TRAFFICANTE on 12/8/68.

Purpose of meet was

to discuss construction of new hospital

complex in Dade County, located off N. W. 27th Avenue.

MARTIN and PLATE had property deeds with them for inspection

by TRAFFICANTE. Action from this hospital is to be split

among the participants.

The "front man" for this construction

will be one RUDY

operator Of Grey's Drugs, Miami. FLN

After meeting!

informant took MARTIN to airport,

where

MARTIN returned to NYC. TONY PLATE is still in Miami, stay

ing at Diplomat Hotel, Hollywood, Fla.

MARTIN advised informant that in his opinion,

and in the opinion of his ICN colleagues, the hospital

investment and construction business is without question

the most lucrative one ever ventured by LCN people, and

this includes, among othes,

gambling, shylocking and

narcotics. Informant

told that profits, thanks to

C3 - Büreau

2

- New York (92-846)

2 - Miami

93-9781-1373 affor

(1 - 137-4138)

RRH: Is

REC-35

DE. 13 1968

(7)

METE

Appro

Đbc 1026

Special

Agent in. Charge

DocId: 32294424

Page 2

Sent

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F? Kennedy assassination Records

Collection Act, of 1992(14

use 2IUT.

Hotel:

DATE:- 11-11-2017

MM 92-88

Medicare programs and other similar programs under

Govermment sponsorship,

are absolutely guaranteed at

fantastic rate. MARTIN indicated to informant that LCN

has many such operations either now in existence or

planned throughout the country

In the above connection, it is noted that

TRAFFICANTE has been suspected of being the man behind

the operation of the Palm Springs General Hospital in

Dade County, Fla

LEADS

NEW YORK:

AT NEW YORK,

INa

Is requested to identify FRANK MARTIN described

abo ves

s MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLA

Will follow this situation and will identify the

property

in question.

DacId:

3.2

2

1424

Paus

.3

---

