# docid-32310726

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10307-10030

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-634

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/24/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, TRA, ASSOC, MEETING, BUSS ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32310726 Page 1

300

---

## Page 2

•: 4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

&x Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLge

Evan!

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

4

URGENT

2-29-62

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

11:25 PM

FROM SAC

CHICAGO 250444

JEG

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 4-20•34

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

_B/SO

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. REBUTEL TODAY.

CHICAGO POI CLAIMS POSITIVELY OBSERVED GIANCANA

AT ARMORY

LOUNGE LATE EVENING OF FEBRUARY 22 AND 23°

CG 6486 = C*

REPORTED GIANCANA IN CONFERENCE EVENING OF FEBRUARY 23 LAST

WITH PERSON POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH LOU BRADY, CLEVELAND AND

MIAMI HOODLUM CONVERSATION RELATED TO PROPOSED NINE AND

ONE HALF MILLION DOLLAR HOTEL DEAL WHICH IS SCHEDULED FOR

COMPLETION JUNE 1963. BRADY TO TAKE DRAWINGS, PLANS AND

SPECIFICATIONS TO MIAMI OVER WEEKEND AND CONFER WITH MEMBER

OF TAYLOR CONSTRUCTION CO., WHO HAS AGREED TO HANDLE JOB.

EXACT SITE OF PROPOSED HOTEL NOT YET KNOWN, POSSIBLY RENO,

NEVADA 'AREA. INASMUCH INCOME FROM WINTER SPORTS MENTIONED.

GIANCANA ADVISED BRADY HE IS LEAVING MONDAY FOR FEW DAYS,

DEFINITELY NOT LONG STAY. DID NOT INDICATE DESTINATION.

SUGGEST MIAMI BE ALERT FOR ARRIVAL GIANCANA THAT DATE.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED::.

2-25-62

12:37 AM

Ko: +3 91-3171-634

8 FEB 26 1962

OTHER 4

9

3 MAR I 196%

aran asline co dinte in the bree message a see nated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl,

cryptographic systems

NW 45792 DocId: 32310726

Page 2

---

