# docid-32373478

## Page 1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

CIA

104-10307-10046

: JFK

LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

MEMORANDUM: OSWALD CONTACTS WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET

EMBASSIES, MEXICO CITY, DURING THE PERIOD 27 SEPTEMBER

1963 TO 1 OCTOBER 1963.

01/01/1900

DATE

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, L H

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS: UPX-NFOI: F6: 1998.11.19.09:36:42:170120 : DUPLICATE:

OF 104-10413-10049 (JFK-RH08, F148) .

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10307-10046

HN 53217

Doc1d:32373476

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SUBJECT: OSWALD contacts with Cuban and Soviet Embassies, Mexico

City, Mexico, during the period 27 September 1963 to 1 October

1963

1. ODESSA Calls.:

2. OSWALD Calls.

3. Original Transcripts.

ind

FINDINGS:

1. Calls concerning travel to ODESSA. Three calls were made in

the Spanish language on 27 September 1963 concerning travel to Odessa.

The first call was made about 1040 hours to the Soviet Military Attache

Office. An unidentified man outside asks the Soviet Military Attache

what is needed to get a visa to go to Odessa. The Soviet tells him to

call 15-60-55 and ask for the consul. The man outside asks for the

address which the Soviet provides. I/ The second call was made about

1037 hours to the Consulate of the Soviet Embassy (15-60-55). An unidentified

man asks for the consul and is told that he is not there.

The unidentified

man asks what 1s needed to get a visa to go to Odessa and is told to call

back at 1130 hours. 2/ The third call occurred at 1235 hours.

named ALATRISTE (not a Soviet) inside the Soviet Consulate (15-60-55) called

out to number 45-37-72 (Colonial America, probably a pension or hotel but

not listed in the telephone directory) and speaks with a man named SAN

ALATRISTE says that he is in the Russian Embassy and they need to

know what day the boat "KALONIA" will arrive in Odessa, that the Soviets

will also need copies of the passenger manifest. (The conversation suggests

that ALATRISTE and SAN ROMAN were shipping representatives of the boat

"'KALONIA"'). 2/

There is nothing in either of the calls to suggest any

connection with OSWALD. There is evidence that the calls were not related

0 OSWALD: a) in OSWALDS's contacts with Cuban and Soviet officials he mad

o effort to communicate in Spanish though he appeared to have difficulty

with both English and Russian, thus one concludes that he could not speak

Ali three calls about Odessa were in fluent Spanish. b) Marina

OSWALD in her letter to the Soviet Embassy, Washington, D.C. (reproduced in

the Warren Conmission Report)asked specifically to go to Lenningrad and

made no mention of Odessa.

MH 53217 DocId: 32373478 Page 2

---

## Page 3

w.

pin:

2. There were five telephone calls to or from the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico City which (after 22 November 1963) were linked to

OSWALD for the period 27 September 1963 to I October 1963:

a) Shortly after 1600 hours on 27 September 1963 the Soviet

Embassy, Mexico City, receivea a call from Sylvia DURAN, a Mexican

employee

in the Cuban Consulate, Mexico City. DURAN had a North-

american in her office and wanted to know who he talked with at

the Soviet Embassy.

She had sent him there for a Soviet visa

after which the Cubans would issue one to him. DURAN was told to

leave a number for someone to return the call. She gave the

Soviets the number of the Cuban Consulate. 3/

One concludes from this conversation that this Northamerican,

later identified by DURAN as OSWALD,

went first to the Cuban

Embassy on 27 September, then to the Soviet Embassy, and

returned to the Cuban Embassy when DURAN made the first call.)

b) At 1626 hours on 27 September a Soviet male in the Soviet'

Embassy, Mexico City, returned the call to DURAN at the Cuban

Embassy and asked if the Northamerican had been there and was told

that he was still there (at the Cuban Embassy). The Soviet told

DURAN that the Northamerican had shown them letters with their

Consulate in Washington requesting a visa for himself and his

wife but the process takes 4 to 5 months and they (the Soviet

Embassy in Mexico) have no authorization to issue a visa to him

and furthermore they (the Soviet Embassy in Mexico) do not know

anything about him and cannot give him a letter of recommendation

to go to Cuba (enroute to the USSR). DURAN says that in that case

he cannot be issued a visa to Cuba either: (until he receives

permission to go on to the USSR). 4/

c) Shortly before 1200 hours on 28 September 1963 the Soviet

Embassy Consulate, Mexico City, received a call from Sylvia

DURAN who said she had there in "their" Consulate, the Northamerican

who had been to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican talks with

the Soviet in English and Russian saying he was "just now" af your

Embassy and they "took his address" but he didn't know it then and

went back to the Cuban Embassy to get it. The Soviet tells him to

come back to the Soviet Embassy. The Northamerican agrees to do so

right away. 5/

(One concludes from this conversation that OSWALD went to the Soviet

Embassy before 1200 hours on 28 September, then to the Cuban Embassy

where the call was made, then returned to the Soviet Embassy some

time after 1200 hours the same day.)

HH 53217 DooId:32373478 Page 3

---

## Page 4

C

d) At 1031 hours on 1 October 1963, a man trying to speak

Russian called the Soviet Embassy Military Attache Office

and said he was at their Embassy "last Saturday" (28 September)

and talked with the Consul. He is told to call the number for

the Consulate and to write it down. 6/

e)

At 1035 hours on 1 October 1963, a man (whose voice was

described by the translator as the same person as above) called

the Soviet Embassy Consulate. He said this is LEE OSWALD, I was

at your place last Saturday and spoke with a Consul who said they

would send a telegram to Washington, so I want to find out if you

have anything. He did not remember the name of the Consul.

The

Soviet suggested it was KOSTIKOV, then told the caller that a

telegram had gone out but nothing had been received.

33217

Do01d:32373478

Page

4

---

## Page 5

1 Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military

Attache Office, Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone

tap operation, Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File:

50-6-75/4.

2/ Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone tap operation,

microfilm

reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

3/ Same as 2/ above.

4/ Transcript dated 27 September 1963 of Soviet Embassy Chancery,

Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

5 Transcript dated 28 September 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 177, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Military

Attache Office, Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone

tap operation, Microfilm reel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File:

50-6-75/4.

7/ Transcript dated 1 October 1963 of the Soviet Embassy Consulate,

Mexico City, Joint CIA Mexican Government telephone tap operation,

Microfilm reel number 178, Job 71-812, Box 1, File: 50-6-75/4.

HH 53217

DocId: 32373478

Page

---

