# docid-32161731

## Page 1

- Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10144-10092

RECORD_ SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

62-109060-5050

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: SAC. NY

TITLE:

DATE: 04/10/1967

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

JFK, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/09/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32161731

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John Fl Kennedy (AssasstnatiOn Recorus Coltection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRE

1 - Mr. Lenihan

4/10/67

ALL

HERDID IS UNCRASSIFIED

EXUDZE WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

MAILED 25

APR 1 0 1967

COMM • FBA

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr

Wick

Casper

Callahaat

Contad -

Felt

Ghle

Rosen

inflivan

tavel

rotte

ele.

bimes

APR

1 9196

•MAIL

ROOM

DocId: 32161731 Page 2

SAC, New York (89-75)

Director, FBI (109060)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN' FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS,

TEXAS

L1/22/63

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Reurairtel in captioned matter which enclosed to

the Bureau two copies of a letterhead memorandun dated

March 44, 1961, Which set forth infornation received fron

NY. 5812-S* regarding the assassination of the late

President Kennedy.

The Bureau has discussed contents of your

letterhead memorandum with the Central Intelligence Agency

in accordance with current procedures for handling such

information and there is attached a copy of a letterhead

memorandum which was prepared at Seat of Government which

made minor revisions in the memorandum prepared by your

office.

The Bureau has also classified the enclosed

unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause

serious damage to the internal security of this country.

For your added information, a copy of this

memorandum was disseminated by the Fureau to the State

Department, United States Secret Service and also to the

Department of Justice.

Enclosure.

5/1193

Classified by 9.803 pold /gel

REL:ASDe

105 kma/GaL 2/8/9y JFK,

(5)

NOTE:

See memorandum Branigan to Sullivan dated 4/4/67 which

approved dissemination

of this data to the Department,

Secret Service and

state Department: 22 1x116 5050

N2 APR IN 19EA

SECREU

per

TELETYPE UNIT

---

