# docid-32293086

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10362

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-81285-19, 20, 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRANIGAN, W. A.

TO : BELMONT, A. H.

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

10/19/1959

4

SUBJECTS:

REW, RENOUNCED, US CITIZENSHIP, LTR, SOURCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC TTY, A/T

, v9.1

1H 45984

DocId: 32293086

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

•

FBI

Date: 10/17/59

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-81285)

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3792)

ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER

IS - R

(00: CLEVELAND)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1 44 0008 mand

Re Cleveland airtel 10/7/59, Bureau airtel

10/15/59, New

York teletype 10/17/59.

On 10/17/59, L

(protect identity), Treasurer,

contacted the Cleveland Office

and advised that on 10/16/59, he had received a cablegram

Irom JAMES H. RAND in Moscow, USSR.

In this cablegram RAND

10/17/59.

said that he had just received a long-distance ca

RAND on 10/17/59 and

that RAND said that he and U.S,

Consular Representative met with the subject and a Russiar

Diplomatic Representative at a Russian Police Station in

*Moscow, USSR on this date. RAND stated that the subject was

in apparently good health

and under no form of duress or

restraint and the subject formally renounced his U. S.

citizenship, stating he wished to remain in the Soviet Union

Inasmuch as he likes the Soviet system better than the

American system.

The Russian Diplomatic Representative

advised the subject in the presence of RAND and the U. S.

Diplomatic Representative that if he remained in the Soviet

Union, he would have less than one per cent chance of ever

REC- 4

105-81285-21

- Bureau

- Cleveland

JFC/bab

(4)

geL Se

10 ag Un .23

15 OCT 1.9 1959

72

Approved,

Sent

_M

P

OTHER 4

special Agent in Charge

NH 45984 DocId: 32293086 Page 2

---

## Page 3

INVESTIGATI"

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OGT 1 8 1959

TELETYPE

AZE INTORMATYON CONTATIO

HEREIN IS UNCIMSSIFIED EXCREA

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

12-22-91

Classifted

Declass

PM

JFK,

Tolson

Mr. Belmont_

Mr. DeLoach_

Mr. McGuire_

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Parsons_

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Tamm_

Mr. Trotter._

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Holloman_

Miss Gandy-

Маетя

URGENT

10/17/59

1-51

MP

TO DIREGTOR AND SAC, CLEVELAND

FROM SAC, NEW YORK 1P

ROBERT EDWARD

WEBSTER, IS DASH RO NEW YORK ONE FIVE ONE NINE [5]

DASH S ASTERISK, A HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, ADVISED OCTOBER

SEVENTEEN, FIFTY NINE, ROBERT EDWARD WEBSTER HAD RENOUNCED

HIS AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP IN WRITING AT A SOVIET POLICE STATION

BELIEVED TO BE IN MOSCOW, USSR, ON THIS DATE. ACCORDING TO

SOURCE, JIM /LNU/ POSSIBLY JAMES H. RAND /PRESIDENT RAND

DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION/ AND THE AMERICAN CONSUL ACCOMPANIED

SUBJECT TO RUSSIAN POLICE DEPARTMENT. SOURCE ADVISED SUBJECT

STATED HIS REASON FOR RENOUNGING US; CITIZENSHIP WAS QUOTE

SOVIET LIFE IS BETTER THAN AMERICAN LITE END QUOTE

END AND ACK PLS

81285-20

REG. 22

1-53 PM OK FBI WA JDS

12 OCT 22 1959

TU DISCO

500C1 28 195

EX 100

100-1415

IT 1 SECRET

-MR. BELMONT

NW 45984 DocId: 32293086 Page 3

---

