# docid-32289893

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10169

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-609

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

08/24/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

GAL, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679

DocId: 32289893

Page 1

223

---

## Page 2

AGATION

USTICE

COMMUNI

SECTION

AUG 2 4 1967

TELETYPE-

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr_-

Mr. Callahsa

Mr. Conrad.-

we Dono

Mr. Malona.

Mr. Rosen_

DEFERRED 8-24-62

5-9/11//5-09 AM LJC

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-3182/

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

FROM SAC,

CHICAGO /92-373/

Miss Gandy.

GUS ALEX, AKA• ARO DAILY SUMMARY •

GEORGE N. SEELT, PCI, ADVISED THÄT ON SATURDAY,

AUGUST EIGHTEEN LAST, ALEX, SUZANNE FEUGER, AND HUNRY SUSK

WERE AT THE FRENCH ROOM OF THE HAFTFORD PLAZA RESTAURANT.

PCI SAID HE IS PERSONALLY ACQUAINTED WITH SUSK AND, THEREFORE,

APPROACHED SUSK AT THE RESTAURANT AND THAT SUSK THEN

INTRODUCED ALEX TO HIM UNDER THE NOME OF MR. BROWN. PCI •

SAID THAT SINCE HE HAS NOW HAD AN INTRODUCTION TO ALEX,

ALEX MAY BE MORE FRIENDLY IN THE FUTURE WHEN HE VISITS THE

RESTAURANT.

BET FURTHER ADVISED THAT ALEX MENTIONED TO HIM THAT HE MO

HAD BEEN AT THE FLYING CARPET LOUNGE AND ALSO AT HOLIDAY INNO

BOTH OF WHICH RESTAURANTS ARE OPERATED BY PCI-S EMPLOYER.

ALEX TOLD SEELT THAT HE HAD SEENI

AT THE

FLYING CARPET LOUNGE RECENTLY AND THAT

42

TOOK /8RE05609

3182 w

ALEX-S TABLE THERE.

IS ALSO A PCI OF THIS OFFICE AND

WAS FORMERLY EMPLOYED AT THE MARTYR M HE RUN WHERE

HE PERSONALLY

WAITED ON ALEX.

ALEX

ARMED

AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

END

ANDS HO AUG 2 91962

NW 45679 DocId: 32289893 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

