# docid-32305289

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10287-10419

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-306

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Document Information

DATE: 06/22/1966

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, OBA, STATEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

-*

N 45881 DocId:32305289 Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

7..

.

TO

SUBJECT:

"брттоми, коки на. 10

MAY. 1962 EDITION

CSA FAMR MA CARU 109-11.0

UNITED STATES ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4474)

TAMPA (105-374) (P)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS - CUBA

NM

(00: MM)

DATE: 6/22/66

NH

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS, UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2/70/83 BYSPBATAka

RePlet to Bureau, dated 2/28/66, and to utam! of caSAT

1 4/29/66.

Continued contact with TP 52-S, PSI

and TP 262-S has failed to reflect any organized

activity

of captioned organization in the Tampa area.

On 5/27/66, TP B2-S advised SA WILLIAM E. OGLESBY

that the MIRR had no

plans to initiate any bombing activity

so far as was known it the Tampa area. This source advised

FL

that recently ENRIQUE SOMEILLAN, Representative of the MIRR,

in Tampa, had delivered a letter to JOE/HERNANDEZ, Manager

Conte 10 a statement on oppose head or the dia

in Miami, to the effect that the MIRR was not inttiating

in any new activity against the Cuban Government, but that

it had never ceased its activity in attacking the Cuban

Government. This statement, according to TP 52-s, was

made by BOSCH, in

reply to an article appearing in

"Diario

De Las Americas," Miani, some three weeks previous. to

receipt of the letter stating in effect that the MIRR was

planning to renew its bombing attacks on Cuba. BOSCH

stated that the MIRR had never stopped fighting for the

freedom of Cuba. TP 52-S advised that the remarks of BOSCH

were never printed by the "Traduccion Prensa."

Since the above article was never printed, this

information is not considered of sufficient value to warrant

dissemination.

- Bureau (RM)

REG- 79

97-4474-306

- M1am1 (105-2855) (RM)

-2 - Tampa

JUN 24 1966

WEO/ss

(6)

163

JUL 7

1966 SLA

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

5010-100

45881

DocId: 32305289 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

