# docid-32332674

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(14 USC 210T Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90103-10075

RECORD SERIES: PG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-226-2-65

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO:

. HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/28/1963

8

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32332674

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

D-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

MOONETON CONTAINED

AIN IS UNCEASSSFIED

Judit

ACESS RETENE SHOWA

ORRESPASE

TO

: DIrEcTOR, FBI

(Bufile

92-2940

DATE:

3/28/63

(JFK) 3/19/98

FROM

SAC, PITTSEUROH (92-226-Sub 2)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SL0/GCe

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_

6(6)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

PITTSBURGH

Symbol Number

PO 622-C*

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical' or

Microphone)

Microphone (MUTT

Installation)

I. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA (Owner, North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless: Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.)

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

3. Location of monitoring plant:.

Pittsburgh FBI Office, 450 Union Irust Building, Fifth

Avenue and Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4.

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization:

1/26/61

Installation:

1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

No other installations:

6.

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

(There _1s no

tesur Involved in this installation.)

Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

Is the surveillance on a public coin operated telephone?

1-Bureau (REG.)

@Pittsbürgh

RAV/gb (2)

Registered Mail

92-876-5468-65

DocId: 32332674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

ECREN

PQ 92-226-sub 2

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7.

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One MUTT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not

part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult Insert pages..

intelligence purposes and appropriate dissemination was made

Purposes and al

All Information was utilized for

10.

ber information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

NO.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live Informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live.

informants furnishing information relative to the North

Star Cement Block Company.

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No change.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

No requests made.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

One unit of a misur (TO 180-g*) was activated on 8/23/62.

SECRET

- 2.

DocId: 32332674 Page 3

---

