# docid-32142181

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

: 124-10069-10152

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-24016-473

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, EBI

TITLE : [No Titlel

DATE

: 11/25/1963

PAGES

: 3

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JR,

SUBVERSIVE ACT,

ASSOC

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH

DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 12/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

26

5668

SUREN OF MNEST

U. S. DEPARMENT- OF JUSTIO*

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

NOV 2 5 1963

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

HEr.

Kohr

fir

GAsper.

Mr.

Callahan-

MI.

Conrad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mir. Excas

ENCECT REDRE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Gale

Nir: Resen

NIr.

Sulliva

URGEN

11-25-63.

1-00 AM

EMM

Ar. Havel

Mr. Trotter.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI AND SACS, DALLAS, LOS ANGELES AND NEW YORK!

Tale. Noons.

Mise Holmes.

Mies Gandy-

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

5t.

98031001

7/12/83

Classified by

Declassify on• DADR

ED.

FROM SAC, CHICAGO /44-NEW/

/3P/.

JACK LEON RUBY, AKA., LEE HARVEY OSWALD DASH VICTIM.

CIVIL RIGHTS.

RE LOS ANGELES TEL ENTITLED ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY, NOVEMBER TWENTYTWO LAST, DALLAS, TEXAS,

THIS DATE.

FOR INFORMATION NEW YORK, LOS ANGELES IN RECEIPT OF

ANANYMOUS CALL ELEVEN TWENTYFOUR INSTANT ADVISING. JACK

RUBY AKA JACOR RUBENSTEIN, KILLER OF LEE OSWALD, WAS ALIT

CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH MORRI

ADELMAN, A A 1E

Á QUOTE NOTORIOUS:

TeXt

CP ORGANIZER IN CHICAGO AREA DURING WORLD WAR TWO UNQUOTE

AND ALLEGED THAT ADELMAN WAS LAST IN LOS ANGELES AND THE

DALLAS, FORTH WORTH AND SAN ANTONIO AREAS. LOS ANGELES

HAD NO IDENTIFIABLE, INFORMATION.

REC, 25

ATION

7.23

SIN

ADELMAN, FOUR FOURCE@UR OVENORTH LAUNDALES CHICASO AS BS DECE 2 1963

A SIGNER OF STOCKHOLMAPEACE PETITION IN NINETEEN FIFTY.

END PAGE

ONE

• HECFINED.

Adelane

963 71-

Sallucin

DEC 9 1963 Con

SOV

TONG

HH 53932

DooId: 32142181

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Seerantiant

PAGE TWO

SOURCE OF THIS INFORMATION WAS FORMER CG FIVE SEVEN SEVEN

SEVEN DASH S. WHO HAD ACCESS TO A. P. C. RECORDS AND UNACQUAINTED WITH

ADELMAN.

CHICAGO PHONE DIRECTORY REFLECTS CURRENT ADDRESS FOR

ONE MORRIS

MADELMAN RESIDING THREE THREE NINE ZERO WEST_

HOLLYWOOD, CHICAGO ILLA-

CG FIVE SIX*

ZERO NINE DASH S, YCG

DASH

ELVE NINE ZERO ELOTC)

FORMER CG FIVE THREE SEVEN THREE DASH S, FORMER

CG FIVE ZERO FOUR TWO DASH §, AND FORMER CG FIVE NINE ONE

TWO DASH S, ALL MEMBERS OF THE CP IN THE CHICAGO AREA DURING

THE NINETEEN THIRTIES AND OR FORTY-S, COULD FURNISH NO

INFORMATION REGARDING A FUNCTIONARY NAMED ADELMAN OR ANY VARIATIONS

OF THIS NAME. CHICAGO INDICIES CHECKED UNDER VARIATIONS

OF NAME UNDER EDELMAN, ADALMAN, ANDELMAN, ANDLEMAN, NEGATIVELY.

CHICAGO INDICES REFLECT FILE FOR ONE MILDRED MC"ADORY

SAFER WEIES REPRES TO A REPORT OF SA FATRICK J. STOKES,

TEN TWELVE SIXTY ONE AT NEW YORK. ANONYMOUS CALLER

END PAGE TWO

carlidentes

NH 53932 DocId:32142181 Page 3

---

