# docid-32292256

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System •

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-348

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/27/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292256

Page 1

362

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 6-2-61)

PY

Radio

&& Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad®

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy

DEFERRED

10-27-61

6:21 AM TUF

UTO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

270939

stiffer.

GUS

ALEX, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6443-C ADVISED THA

LOUIS TORNABENE, OWNER OF THE SANTA FE HOTEL AND GAMBLING

ASSOCIATE OF GUS ALEX WAS AN INDIVIDUAL OF SOME STATURE WITH

THE "OUTFIT" THREE TO FOUR YEARS AGO, BUT THAT HE HAD FALLEN

OUT OF FAVOR WITH ALEX SINCE THAT TIME. IN THIS CONNECTION

INFORMANT ADVISED HE WAS OFFERED THE PROPOSITION SEVERAL YEARS

AGO OF TAKING OVER TORNABENE'S INTEREST IN THE FIRST WARD OF

CHICAGO. HE SAID THIS OFFER INCLUDED THE GAMBLING AND BOOKIE

INTERESTS IN THE SANTA FE HOTEL DISTRICT RUN BY TORNABENE.

INFORMANT ALSO ADVISED TORNABENE IS OBTAINING A DIVORCE FROM

HIS WIFE AND IS PRESENTLY LIVING WITH ANOTHER WOMAN AT THE

SANTA FE HOTEL. ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

RECEIVED:

7:29 AM BLH

Ch: 2028

REC-A4 92-3/92-348

a to 31 %

58 N0V 3 1961÷

the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

DocId: 32292256 Page 2

---

