# docid-32306823

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10290-10463

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: • 92-6054-2473

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/27/1968

1

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, TRIAL, IMPORT, EXPORT,

NARCOTICS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4•

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/15/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306823

Page 1

6

---

## Page 2

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL' FORM NO. 10

5010-107-02

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Director, FBI (92-6034)

DATE: December 27, 1968

FROM

Legat, Rome

(92-80) (P)

SUBJECT:

O

LA

COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Rome letters 11/25/68, and 1/8/68.

Romlet 1/8/68, reported the commencement of the trial

in Reggio Calabria on October 23,

1967, against 115 defendants,

all of whom were charged with being members of the Mafia and

with aggravated criminal conspiracy.. On 12/23/68, the court

sentenced 73 of the defendants to prison terms ranging from

three months to 27 years.

Forty of the defendants were acquitted

on the grounds of insufficient evidence.

The conviction of the 73 defendants is another

severe blow which Italian police forces have dealt the Mafia

during recent years.

TONY/SARILLO, the caporegima of the VITO GENOVESE

"family" of la Cosa Nostra who was arrested in Naples, ItalY.

on 11/23/68, and charged with conspiring to import and export

narcotics, is languishing in jail in Rome. The Instruction

begun a study of the case findings and it may be

three to six months before he hands down a decision regarding

a trial date for CARILLO.

Dr. ANGELO VICARI, Chief of the Italian National

Police, has

informed Legat that the Italian police will

continue in its efforts to stamp out the Mafia in Italy and

pledged his complete support in following the activities of

the American hoodlum element who visit Italy. Dr. VICARI said

that while the Mafia continues to be a problem, it is not as

grave as it was five or ten years ago.

Of immediate concern,

according to VICARI, is the wave of banditry that has spread

through the Island of Sardinia.

Thousands of extra police have

been stationed on Sardinia in anjeffort to stamp out the series of

shootings, robberies and kidnapings which have occurred in the

last two years.

A than not ane ont

Although not as organized, Sardinian bandits

The police

are thwarted because of the mountainous terrain in Sardinia and

Sardinia's own form of "omerta.". In addition to foot patrols with

which system police hope to ferret out the bandits Dr. VICARI hopes

to use special helicopter trained forces. 92- 6054- 2473

Any pertinent developht???wAN e/fited promptly.

ed 41969 Liaison)

TJB: MEG

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings, Plan

(4)

DocId: 32306823

Page 2

---

