# docid-32290339

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RÈCORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10115

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2246

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/19/1969

6

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, BKG INVEST, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, TRA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

01/04/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290339

Page 1'

269

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

F D-263.(Rev. 12-19-671

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVE_TIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA aka

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/19/69

1/15 - 3/13/69

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED &

PIK

ANTI - RACKETEERING

REFERENCE:

Report of SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR., dated 1/20/69 at

Chicago. U

APPROPS IATE AGENCIES

LEAD

?"':

92P (5) 02'

DATE

-P-

clas

- 4383UTAG

4-16.81

CHICAGO

activities of GIANCAÑA. U

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Will continue to follow the

A*

COVER PAGE

CONVIC AUTO.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FUG.

FINES

SAVINGS

0X NONE

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

APPEN 21

AND PIE

IOUS

£0:2033

ssification

S122 (3)

DATA

CASE HAS BEENA

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

YES XINO

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

AGENT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-

317 - 2246

4-Bureau (92-3171)

f1- Legat, Mexico City FU

2-USA, Chicago

AUSA LAWRENCE E.

MORRISSEY)

2-Chicago (92-349)

MA? g

*969

2-90.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report.

Agency

Request Recd

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

BY

livision,

Notations

HON INDEFINITE

792118

56

ATH.

DocId: 32290339- Page 2

Oron ca Crimao and lacketering:.

Roo.

691419

CLASSTTIEC

EXEART MASH GOSA

DATE DE DECLASSILICA

COVER PAGE

sidt sachs

it 74 900: 1680-200-885

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE D-274 7H-?94755) .

UNL

ID STATES DEPARTMENT OF JI. FICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

(UD

2-USA, Chicago

(1- AUSA LAWRENCE E. MORRISSEY)

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

Office:

3/19/69

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

92-349

DATE 8-44 051MB/64

Bureau File #:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

CHICAGO

92-3171

CONFI

APPOSER ATE AGENCIES

AND T T

IT TOES

ANTI - RACKETEERING

GUTT (8

DATE

Spanish National Police, Madrid, Spain, conducted

investigation with negative results in attempt

To verify GIANCANA's presence in Barcelona, Spain.

Investigation in Cuernavaca, Mexico, has

established -that house at Nubes Number 2,

in

Cuernavaca, which has been occupied by GIANCANA

for

the past two or three years has been for sale

but has either been sold or has been removed from

the market.

Investigation to locate GIANCANA

there continuing.

purpose of obtaining testimony of GIANCANA

regarding suit brought vs. Commission by former

chauffeur for GIANCANA, JOHN MATASSA. However,

prior to location of GIANCANA, suit was dropped

by NATASSA.V

- P

-

RIATE AGENCIE

OFFICE

APP

AND FIES

SEIP (S)

DATE

CLASSETT

N3/2O

2 SeSRE

AuRO

-asS. & EXT. BY.

REASON-FCIM II, 1-2

DATE OF REVIEW

CONFIN

to release

Tou docume 90-4419-25

contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32290339 Page 3

---

## Page 4

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05C 2107 Hobey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-349

DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

I .

INVESTIGATI ON TO DETERMINE CURRENT

WHEREABOUTS OF GIANCANA

BUTTATE

Based on information which has previously

been set out, the Spanish National Police in Madrid,

Spain, was requested to conduct appropriate investi-

gation in Barcelona, Spain, to determine whether or

not GIANCANA was located in that city.

The Spanish

National Police has advised that their investigation,

although continuing, has not as yet given any indi-

CatIOn of the prodDace of GLANCANA In the Barcelona arma de

Investigation in the Cuernavaca, Mexico,

area, Where GIANGANA has been known to have resided in

a house at Nubes Number 2, in Cuernavaca, has determined

that for a period of time this house was placed on the

real estate

market as being for sale.

However, just

recently the sale of this house was removed from the

market, an indication that it had either been sold or

longer for sale for some other reason.

Investi-

gation in the Cuernavaca, Mexico, area is continuing

determina unether a lancina custines to seride that a e

II. MISCELLANEOUS

ELLIOTT ANDERSON, Chief Investigator, Chicago

Crime Commission, advised that on February 12, 1969, a

subpoena was obtained

commanding the appearance of SAMUEL

M. GIANCANA to give a deposition in connection with the

defense by the Chicago Crime Commission of a liable

suit brought against them by JOHN MATASSA, former chauffeur

for GIANCANA. U

Mr. ANDERSON advised that he was cognizant

that GIANCANA was not in February located in the United l

_ 2 -

102-10111

DocId: 32290339 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATED 57474-7947591 1

UN

D STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

2-USA, Chicago

(1- AUSA LAWRENCE S. MORRISSEY)

SA WILLIAM F. ROMER, JR.

Office:

3/19/69

92-349

Bureau File #:

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

CHICAGO

92-3171

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1-29-94 B: 05PMOLA

Character:

Synopsis:

EMONDE

DATE CO DE.

ANTI - RACKETEFRING

CONFI

DENTIAT

Spanish National Police,

Madrid, Spain, condueted

investigation with negative results an

attempt

to verify GIANCANA'S presence in Barcelona, Spain.

Investigation in Cuernavaca, Mexico, bas

established that house at Nubes Number &, in

Cuernavaca, which has been occupied by GIANCANA

for the past two or three years has been for sale

but has either been sold or has been removed from

the market.

Investigation to locate GIANCANA

Subpoena was for

purpose of obtaining testimony of GIANCANA

regarding suit brought vs. Commission by former

chauffeur for GIANCANA, JOHN NATASSA. However,

prior to location of GIANCANA, suit was dropped

Dy NATASSA. O

- P

ASS.

Nexr. BY 6383U7/46

• MASON-

ти іт ведачая

OF/

9-86.81

91918

QUIDENTIA

Burg

¿ LOLASSI

This document c 3/12/8

your agency; it and its contents

ammendations

FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

are

to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32290339

Page 5

---

## Page 6

éleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Hotey .

DATE: {1-14-2017

CG 92-349

DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

I..

INVESTIGATION TO DETERMINE CURRENT

WHEREAROUTS OF GIANCANA

CONF

Based on information which has previously

been set out, the Spanish National Police in Madrid,

Spain, was requested to conduct appropriate investi-

gation in Barcelona, Spain, to determine whether or

not GIANCANA waS located in that city.

The Spanish

National Police has advised that their investigation,

although continuing, has not as yet given any indi-

Eatos a die Meie of it a nola maide

Investigation in the Cuernavaca, Mexico,

area, where GIANEANA

has been known to have resided in

a house at Nubes Number 2, in Cuernavaca, has determined

that for a period of time this house gas placed on the

renl estate market as being for sale.

However, just

recently the sale of this house was removed from the

market, an indication that it had either been sold or

longer for sale for some other reason.

Investi-

gation in the Cuernavaca, Mexico, area is continuing

to

determine whether GIANCANA continues to reside there

II. MISCELLANEOUS

ELLIOTT ANDERSON, Chief Investigator, Chicago

Crime Commission, advised that on February 12, 1969,

subpoena was obtained commanding

the appearance of

SAMUEL

M. GIANCANA to give a deposition

in connection with the

defense by the Chicago Crime Commission of a liable

sutt brought against them by JOHN MATASSA, forner chauffear

for

GIANCANA. U

Mr. ANDERSON advised

that he was cognizant

that GIANCANA was not in February located in the United U

2

CONFIDE

1902-10112

DocId: 32290339 Page 6

---

