# docid-32364927

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

-=-=

Released under

-----

the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 104-10128-10256

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WITHHELD

TO

: CHOADEN, MICHAEL M.

TITLE

: FOREIGN DIVORCE DECREE.

DATE

: 06/09/1970

PAGES

SUBJECTS : FOREIGN DIVORCE

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

:

PAPER

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/23/97

COMMENTS

: F3B: 1997.08.23.14:00:04:153031

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10128-10256

HT 53294

DocId: 32364927

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•SECRET

RYBAT

$ JUN 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Michael M. CHOADEN

SUBJECT

: Foreign Divorce Decree

1. The purpose of this memorandum is to bring certain information

to your attention which relates to the fact that you and your current spouse

were parties to the dissolution in Mexico of former marriages. We under-

stand that some of the information provided below and in the attachment may

have already been brought to your attention. Nonetheless, we are taking this

opportunity to insure that no item of information was overlooked in earlier

discussions with you on this.

2. Recently, the Office of General Counsel completed a study of

the validity of a Mexican divorce decree and potential problems arising

from such a divorce for JKLANCE employees concerned and JKLANCE.

A summary of OGC's study is attached.

3. You will note from the attachment that the employee whose cur-

rent marriage follows a Mexican divorce may be confronted with serious

problems affecting eligibility for payment of various government benefits

such as reimbursement of hospitalization expenses, survivorship benefits

and certain types of overseas allowances. My purpose in writing to you,

therefore, is to be sure you are made aware of and understand the serious-

ness of the problems which would arise in the event of a challenge to the

validity of the Mexican divorce and, consequently, to the validity of the

current marriage. This challenge could arise at any time and from a

number of sources.

4. JKLANCE has another interest stemming from Mexican divorces

and this is one of security, depending upon the employee's specific employ-

ment. In the event such a divorce is challenged, subsequent litigation and

attendant publicity become quite probable. It is, of course, in JKLANCE's

best interest that this sort of activity be avoided where possible.

5. Recognizing that there are various types of Mexican divorce, and

also that the various etates in the United States have decided cases in different

ways depending on the type of Mexican divorce involved and its own case law,

you may wish to discuss your personal situation with your attorney or a rep-

resentative of JKLANCE's Office of General Counsel. In the meantime, how-

ever, JKLANCE's position with respect to your situation is that it assumes

RYBAT

GROZP 1

Excluded from automatic

dermate and

d::

-SECRET

HH 53294

DooId: 32364927

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

RYBAT

the validity of your current marriage, unless the earlier Mexican divorce

action and your current marriage are challenged. Should that challenge

ever occur, it may be necessary for JKLANCE to determine that your

eligibility for benefits based on your current marriage must be suspended

until such time as the challenge is litigated or otherwise resolved. Special

note should be taken of the fact that such a challenge might arise after your

death, possibly resulting in the distribution of insurance proceeds and other

death benefits to other than your immediate family as constituted at your

death and contrary to your own intentions and wishes.

6. Please advice me of your plans and any actions taken in connec-

tion with the above. If you have any questions on the substance of this

memorandum or its purpose, please do not hesitate to let me know.

S1G.21

VICTOR W. TRANSON

Att

Distribution:

Orig - Addressee through DDP and Chief, WH Division

I - Director of Security

1 - General Counsel

RYBAT

SECREF

HH 53294

DocId: 32364927

Page 3

---

