# docid-32202073

## Page 1

Date: 08/06/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

:SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10184

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INCOMING # 6742 DIR #85245

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

DOJ REPORT ON ASSASSINATIONS

DATE : 11/27/63

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

OSWALD'S ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO CITY

DURAN, SILVIA

CUBAN EMBASSY CONTACTS

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/09/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case$:NU 53244 Date:

COMMENTS :

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE BETHIS DOCUMENT,

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53244:

DooId:32202073

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ACTION:

INFO:

APPROVED FOR ELEASE 1996"

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

- AS SANITIZED

27 Jul

CLASSIPIED MESSAGE

(1) (8)

SECRET.

CLASSIFICATION

84A HAS NO OBJECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICAMON ANDIC

RELEASE

-THIS•

ACUMEN

E.14

ic.?

DATE:

SILE: 27NOV53

INITIALS

DIG

ADZADADDY

TO

iNCOMING NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

00c0

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

JFK

2716247

INFO

6742

CITE

IMMEDIATE MEXI

DIR 85245

"IMEDIATE

NUMBER

KAPOK

1O DEPI OF JUSTICE IS PREPARING REPORT ON WHOLE ASSISSINATION

CASE AND WILL UNDOUBTEDLY WANT TO INCLUDE DETAILED DATA ON

OSWALD'S ACTIVITIES IN MEXI. OBVIOUSLY THE LIENZOYTINFO AS SUCH CANK

BE USED, SUT THE STATEMENTS OF SYLVIA DURAN WHICH CARRY ESSENTIALLY

THE SAME IMPORT COULD BE USED WOTHOUT COMPROMISING MEXI SOURCES

OR REVEALING THE NATURE AND EXTENT OF YOUR LIAISON. THEREFORE

REQUEST YOU CABLE IN A TRANSLATED VERSION OF HER STATEMENTS

AND OBTAIN LITENSOR AND LITEMPO, TOO'S PERMISSION TO USE THESE

STATEMENTS IN THE OFFICIAL REPORT, WILL INCIDENTALLY BE PUBLESHED.

2. PLS NOTE THAT DIRECTOR ®

IS GETTING FROM ODENVY MEXI

MUCH INFO WIICH OBVIOUSLY ORIGINATES WITH THE LIENVOY OPERATION.

ODENVY HERE APPARENTLY DOES NOT REALIZE THAI THIS INFO WAS

PRODUCED BY A KUBARK OPERATION, AND INDEED,

ODENY

MAY BE GE

THIS

CHENVOY INFO THRU ITS OWN CLANDESTINE SOURCES IN THE

COBERRECION OR EVEN IN THE PRESIDENT'S OFFICE. PLS TRY TO

CLARIFY WITH THE

LOD

REP THERE THE EXACT MANNER IN WHICH

E

HAS OBTAIRSUCH INFO AND THE FORM: IN WIICH HE HAS SENT IT TO GE

HO. VE MUGT AVOID THE INADVERTANT COMPROVISE OFE

ADVISE

27171÷Z

SECRET

ser

HH 53244 DogId: 32202073 Page 2

L

---

