# docid-32201952

## Page 1

Date: 05/24/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10063

RECORDS SERIES:

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

= Remination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NM 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

-ROM :

10.

TITLE :

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

DATE: 04/21/62

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 2,

4, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/24/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

14 54653

DocId: 32201952

Page 1

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Pleass Oford 747

File No.

UNLIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florid:

April 21, 1962

Re: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

On April 19, 1962, MM I-1, la. Coban: bustnessman,

with estensive acquaintance anong tho cubans sta the wslamt2

area and sone contacts: with Cabans strid in Cuba, who has

furnished reliable information in the past, advised as

follows:

Rolando Cubela was a Commandante in the Cuban

Rebel Fighting force, the Directorio Revolucionario (DR)

(Revolutionary Directory), which was partly instrumental inthe

overthrow of the

government of FULGENCIO BATISTA, former

Cuban President,

on January 1, 1959. He subsequently

became

President of the Cuban Federacion Estudiantil

Universitario (FEU) (University Student Federation).

Cubela, according to information brought from

Cuba by sources not specifically known to MM T-l, is now

desirous of fleeing Cuba and will attempt to obtain per-

mission from the Cuban Government to visit some European

country. If he is successful in his attempts to leave

Cuba, he will defect and announce his dissatisfaction

with

the present Cuban Government.

Property of FBI - This memorandum is loaned to

you by the FBI and neither it nor its contents are

to be

distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

ON 3/31/94 dat

I RELEASE IN FÜLL ^

RELEASE IN PART

OTAL DENTAL

ALL

• INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERE LATE UNCLASS CES ROO DO

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for disserii-

nor Commit ie.

lame is lamin to afian piracedings be

nel without the express approval of the FBl.

1*

RECE ED FROM

JUN :?: 1975

APN 30 1883

1.0 1.

ENCLOSURE

CLOSURE

105. Pill =

HH 54653 DocId:32201952 Page 2

---

