# docid-32290626

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10402

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-236

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/14/1961

2

CM, ASSOC, GUATEMALA, ACT CHECK, IDENT, PHOTO

CHECK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/04/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290626

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

6=:: STANDARD, FORM NO. 84

Office Me indum • UNITED STAVES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2713)

DATE: 9/14/61

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-17)

SUBJECT:

CARLOS

MARCELLO

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Just

Remylet dated 7/31/61 and re New Orleans airtel to

the Bureau dated 8/16/61 captioned this matter, also captioned

"DELIA MC CUTCHEON,

aka; JACK HAROLD HALFEN,

aka - FUGITIVE,

ET AL, ITSP, MASTER CHECK CASE".

" (Buf1le 87-56784).

In the absence of JORGE ESCOBAR FELIRIN, Assistant

Head of Security and Special Investigations, Banco de Guatemala

(Bank of Guatemala) Police, CESAR AUGUSTO ROSALES (protect

identity), an agent for the Bank of Guatemala Police, was con-

tacted 8/21/61 at Guatemala City.

ROSALES related that inquiries at the Banco Agricola

Mercantil In Guatemala City in efforts to determine whether

MARCELLO may have established an account in this institution

in the past failed to develop any data establishing that

MARCELLO had opened an account there.

ascount there d

ROSALES advised that

neither could information be developed that PAXTON or BRAMLETT

had an account there.

ROSALES advised that the possibility

exists that if accounts were opened, it might have been done

under other names. ROSALES further

stated that should their

department receive any pertinent information regarding this

matter in the future they would advise.

}

COPY FILED IN

INRECO

on 8/21/61, U. S. Consul PETER J. PETERSON, U. S.

Embassy, Guatemala City, advised that both PAXTON and BRAMLETI

are still in Guatemala City.

HOWEVEr, PEIERSON stated he has

received no information regarding their activities.

Referenced New Orleans airtel set forth that in

view of certain similarities in the physical descriptions,

the possibility existed that KENNETH GRAYSON PAXTON may be

identical with JACK HAROLD HALFEN..

Orleans airtel that photograph of HALFEN be exhibited to

eason to determine where HAs ape dential with PAsTor,

Bureau

Dallas, Info)

P791223236

New Orleans, 92-36)

not. 113

SEP 2

Mexted City

HJP : 1J

1.1.2.

42 S

DocId: 32290626

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC • 92-17

Although investigation in this matter does not

indicate that they may be identical, a photograph of HALFEN

will be exhibited to U. S. Consul PETERSON at the U. S.

Embassy in Guatemala City as set forth in referenced New

Orleans communication in efforts to ascertain whether they

may be identical.

LEADS

MEXICO CITY OFFICE:

AT GUATEMALA CITY, GUATEMALA:

Will maintain contact with Bank of Guatemala Police

for any further information they may have regarding

this matter which would possibly establish some

definite connection between PAXTON and BRAMLETT with

MARCELLO.

Will exhibit photograph of JACK HALFEN to U. S.

Consul PETER J. PETERSON, U. S. Embassy, Guatemala

City, in efforts to determine whether HALFEN may

be identical with PAXTON.

An extra copy of this communication is being furnished

for the information of the Dallas Office, in view of investi-

gation by that office in this matter.

-2÷

DocId: 32290626

Page 3

---

