# docid-32309490

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10298-10277

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-39

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NU 53074 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DWYER, ROBERT JAMES

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

-

DATE: 10/04/1961

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, GPH, ASSOC, TRAINING CAMP, ACA, TRA, MIL

SERV, ARMS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

WW 55074 DocId: 32309490

Page 1

38

---

## Page 2

-Report Formi "*

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

MIAMI

Date.

ACT

Investigative Period

7/22-9/21/61

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN)

1961

Report made by

ROBERT JAMES DWYER

CHARACTER OF CASE

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

DECLASSIFIED BY TO MAR

Hopely

REFERENCE:

Report of SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER, Miami,

7/31/61.

Miami letter to Bureau with enclosures,

9/1/61, entitled ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO,

IS - CUBA. (Bufile 105-82298) •

photo

CC TO: A.10

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

REQ. REC'D. 5-9-67.

ADSSCIICATION ANDIOR

MIAMI

RELEASE OF A KORMATIONS.

MAY 2 2 1967

IN THIS DOCUMENT. XP 10-46:9005

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

I will continue to follow and report activities a

captioned organization.

2)

Will maintain contact with MM 639-S*&(M)

Special Agent

Approved

In Charge

Copiegmad): Bureau

-693)

(RM)

U.S. Border

Patrol,

Miami (RM)

1

- U.S. Customs

3 - Miami (2-3120M1am$ (RM)

SECO

3 $N:321

Do not write in spaces below

2

=193

- 31

20 OCT 6 1961

Let te

10-16-1o1

Typed By:

ush

REG

43

5, - 104

bileger

HH

4,7

€ OCT 20:88

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents aie to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0344750

... .**

53074

DooId: 32309490

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-312

INFORMANTS

Identity

(A2)

I T-2 18 191 639-5 7 52

Location

- 34-238, Sub A,

465,

66, 468, 471, 474

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T"' symbols were utilized only in

those instances where it was necessary to conceal their

identities.C

Location of original 70 302 Covering

intervieir with fose M. Sonzalez Hermand

is m1 105-3973-13.44

- B*-

(COVER

• PAGE)

HH

53074

DooId: 32309490

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 2-312

fLA

subjectaRtinization

and discontinue their association with HEMMING.

The fourth

individual, JOE/CARMAN, plans to stay with HEMMING's organiza-

tion and two of the indiviquals arrested received a sentence

of thirty days in jail. (in)

MM T-1

said HEMMING continued contacts with

MAUREL IANO SANCHEZ

ARANGO, head of a Cuban revolutionary

organization known as Revolutionary Junte for National

Liberation:

„ELOY GUTIERRE? MENOYO, a Cuban national, who

was formerly a commander in the Second Front in Cuba;

ROBERTO VERDEGUER, formerly a pilot with the Cuban Alr

Force, and ROGELIO CISNEROSC

MM I-I said that HEMMING claims that the govern-

ment of Honduras is in a difficult position, needs

some

anti-communist forces and if it got anti-commnist help,

It would thereafter help these people to go against thesubject orfilLAtioN

present government of Cuba.

HEMMING claims that ROBERTO

VERDEGUER claims he has connections in Honduras

and that he

fLA

and HEMMING are considering asking the President of Honduras

for permission to set up a training camp in that country. ()m)

MM T-1 explained that although there is no way

to evaluate HEMMING's claims concerning Honduras, it

is extremely doubtful that he or VERDEGUER have any

governmental contacts in Honduras or if such a plan will

ever materialize.cm)

subject

ORGiNiZATION

MM I-1 on July 20, 1961, advised that DIckerley,

ROBERT WILLIS, and GUS (INU), former members of HEMMING"s

orga

ization,

recently left Miami and returned to Chicago,

Illinots.(&Yu.)

ED COLLEY, formerly associated with HEMMING, had

returned to

Boston,

, Massachusetts, and TOMKANE left Miami EbA

and hitchhiked to some Northern state. (a)

MM T-I explained that the few members that

HEMMING had in his organization have become discouraged

with HEMMING's promises and lack of action and soon (R)u)

- 3.

NW 53074 DooId: 32309490

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 2-312

came to realize that HEMMING had no chances for

success

or acceptance in Cuban revolutionary activities; consequent-

Iy, these members left the organization and INTERPEN as an

organization no longer exists. (au)

On July 24, 1961, MM T-I advised that HEMMING

recently went to Ocala, Florida fand reportedly talked

to a man who owns a large tract of land. The man offered

to let HEMING establish a training camp on this land

if HEMMING and his associates would work part time clearing

the land. HEMMING claims that he was told that if he could

recruit thirty or forty men, the owner of the land would

give them $30. a day for food, cots and living quarters.

The owner claimed he would put in an airstrip for HEMMING

to teach parachute training and HEMMING claimed he would

start such

camp

, there with a complement of about six

to ten men

M)

On July 31, 1961, MM T-I said that HEMMING had

forgotten all about the plan to establish & training camp

at Ocala,

Florida, and preferred to stay in Miami where

he would be closer to Cuban revolutionists, and the up-to-

date news concerning the political maneuvers of the different

Cuban revolutionary organizations.((m)

On July 31, 1961, MM T-1 advised that on July 28,

1961, HEMMING met With ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO, FRANK LITTLE,

an associate of HEMMING's, (FNU) MORTON, and one other

unidentified Cuban]UKYm)

This group made up a list of equipment which they

would try to obtain and use to locate a base outside of

the U.S. In the Caribbean for training

and future attacks

against Cuba. This group decided they would try to obtain

a boat to go there and this would be a joint enterprize

between GUTIERREZ And HEMMING. MM T-1 explained that

GUTIERREZ MENOYO's father and brother were both known

communists In Cuba and that BLOY himself fought on the hi)

- 4.

NW 53074 DooId: 32309490 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 2-312

side of the commmists in Spain in the 1930's.

ELOY is

further accused of being responsible for over 200 innocent

people being in jail in Cuba and having participated in the

WILLIAM ALEXANDER MORGAN affalr at Trinidad, Cuba, in August,

1959. CUTIERREZ is not well considered by Cuban nationals

in Miant, has a bad reputation, and 1s not generally trusted. (du)

"On August 7, 1961, MM I-I said that HEMMING

had drawn up a military training plan and made it available

to SANCHEZ ARANGO as a plan that would be adopted by SANCHEZ'

organization and that HEMMING would train Cuban nationals

belonging to SANCHEZ' organization in military

tactics,

parachuting and guerrilla warfare.

SANCHEZ indicated

he liked this training program and would submit it to

the military branch of his organiration for its considera-

tion. After HEMING left, SANCHEZ stated he would like

to adopt the plan but had

no intention of using HEMMING

or his organization in the implementation of the plan.

Thereafter, HEMMING took a copy of this training plan,

attached a memorandum to it, and considered sending it

to U.S. General MAXWELL TAYLOR for approval. k)M)

MM T-1 advised that during the past week HEMMING

had continued

to contact many well-known Cuban revolution-

ists, seeking their aid and support but that although he

was

well received, no indications were given that any

Cuban organization would take him in or in any way aid

him. (&/u)

On August 14, 1961, MM T-1 said that CELAID

PATRICK HEMMING had been In contact with BLOYyGUTtERREZ CubA

MENOYO, a Cuban national, Ising in Miami and a

member of the Cuban Revolutionary Army. (8)(U)

MM T-1 explained that HEMMING is a twenty-four-

year-old American soldier of fortune who previously

served in the U.S. Marine Corps and who has been in Miami (Yu)

0:5

53074 DooId: 32309490 Page 6

---

