# docid-32302150

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10280-10087

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-78205-135

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/30/1965

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CC, GARICA, RAUL ROA, ASSOC, RES, BOOK,

CARDIOVASCULAR SURGERY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

=========

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32302150

Page

---

## Page 2

2V. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date:

9/30/65

Transmit the following in

INPORKATION

lefType in plaintext or codel

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. DeLoach

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad..

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gela..

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan:

Mr. Tavel..

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Homes

Miss Gandy-

TO:

DIRECTOR,

FBI

+105-7820514688 lus

Te: 77797254

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORKS 105-36809)7481441

SUBJECT:

#RAUL ROA

IS - CUBA

ReNYairtel 9/28/65.

8/30/97

OR: CADN

5268 SL0/68

DEKI

MM-761-S advised this date that he was able

to purchase the book Cardiovascular Surgery requested

-Dy ROLANDO CUBELA in his letter to CARLOS TEPEDINO.

The

book isto bedelivered to TEPEDINO's. office probably

source will contact oscar curren

and arrange to deliver it personally to either GUTIERREZ

or MARIA JIMENEZ at the Cuban Mission to the UNd

He feels

confident that éither through GUTIERREZ Or JUAN JUARBE, a

Iong

time

acquaintance, he will be able to arrange to

see

ROA :

÷ £5.1.

The probeam to date has ben

that ROA,

as the

Bureau is aware, is stayingcat the residence of FERNANDO

and because of the newspaper trike

City,

little or no publicity has been given to ROA's

presence here.

Spot checks on the CMUN and established

sources have indicated that ROA has not spent much time

at the CMUN since his arrival.

Nevertheless, it is

believed that the source, who is unaware of ROA's where-

abouts, should consign and direct his efforts to see

ROA through the CMUN,

Any attempt for the source to

contact ROA at his residence would,

the NYO believes,

arouse suspicio

on the part of ROA

concerning the motives

of

the source

Ul)

# 04905135

3

1

Bureau

- Miami* 109-2521

BEC, REC IN:

ALL INSCR

? - New

York

(1

205-310847

NES IS R

SpCa

Approved! 7}

PARe

Spécial Agent in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per _

NAT./

54463

DocTd: 32302150

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

