# docid-32327396

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90063-10046

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-584-3976

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

06/22/1964

PAGES:

24

SUBJECTS :

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

D

-

NM 105-1742

Copies: (continued)

1 - ONI, Miami (RM)

- G-2,

Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

- Ost, Robins AFB,

-

Ga.

(RM)

1

2

U. S. Border Patrol, Miami (RM)

-

INS, Miami (RM)

- U. S. Customs, Miami (RM,

(1 - Miami)

(1 - Region II)

1

1

- U. s. Coast Guard, Miami (RM)

- CIA, Miami (RM)

FAA,

Miami (RM)

Department of State (Cuban Affairs), Miami (RM)

Boston (105-4151) (info) (RM)

Jacksonville (109-8) (info) (RM)

Newark (105-1006) (info) (RM)

New York (105-35253) (info) (RM)

-

San Juan (info) (RM)

Savannah (info) (RM)

- Chicago (105-6033) (info) (RM)

Los Angeles (info) (RM)

New Orleans

(105-1095) (RM) (info)

San Francisco (109-11) (info) (RM)

- Tampa (info) (RM)

1 - Washington Field (105-29955) (info) (RM)

*****

INFORMANTS

SLARET

(U)

Identity

MM T-1 1S MM 639-s (U)

MM T-2 is GREGORY BENTLEY,

Officer in Charge

Special Branch

Nassau, N. P., Bahamas, B.W.I

B.

COVER PAGE

Location

MM 134-238

Instant report,

page

/ (u)

109-584-3976

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MM 105-1742

Identity

Location

MM T-3 is MM 960-S

MM 134-942

MM T-4 is Mr.

M. H. REDMON

Instant report

INS, Miami, Florida

page_ 8

MM T-5 iS JOSEPH VIDAL, CIA, Miami

Florida

instant report,

CIA rpt. 3/580 100 dated

4/30/64, classified SECRET (4)

MM T-6 is

ARTURO GONZALEZ GONZALEZ

PSI, Miami, Florida

MM T-7 is

PSI

Instant report,

page 10, /1

Instant report,

page_/1.13

X

(и)

OTHER 4

CLA IN TO DECLASSIFIEO PER

4/2/86 LTR.SPGBJA/Gce

t2i1,326-10/6/90

INs

REVIEWED BY FBI JFK TASK FORCE

ON 9/27/97 P.B./RTK

& RELEASE IN FULL

• RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DENIAL

C

COVER PAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

1.= Dept da state, (Cuban TripTs),

Miami (RM)

i- ONI,.

2 - Customs

- G-2, Ft. McPherson, Ga. (RM)

1

Robins AFB, Ga. (RM)

Copy tol

= 0.7s. Border Patrol, Miamd (RM)

1 - INS, Miami (RM)

Report of: ROBERT JAMES DWYER

Date:

JUN 2 2 1964

Field Offico File #: 105-1742

Bureau File #:

Title: ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KS

8-8+48:

Ода сот.

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

(RM)

(1 - Miami)

(1 - Region

1 - U. S. Coast

II)

Guard, Miami (RM)

1 - CIA, Miami

(RM)

1 - FAA,

Miami

(RM)

Office:

MIAMI, FLORIDA

109-584

Classified by &p's/ Cle ga

Deciassily on:

1039831

211326

Synopsis:

In 5/63,

MANUEL RAY RIVERO, head of Junta Revolucionaria

cubana (JURE), publicly promised to be in Cuba by 5/20/64.

As May, 1964, approached, JURE issued more press releases.

U. S, press and wire services watched for military action

against Cuba.

Cuban armed forces were alerted.

On 6/1/64,

RAY and 7 others were captured by a British destroyer

at Anguila Key, Bahamas.

These 8 persons were fined

$14.00 each and released by the British. RAY's group

included one girl and two American newsmen.

On 5/13/64,

Movimiento Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR) made a naval

attack against a sugar mill at Puerto Pilon, Oriente

Province, Cuba. MRR claimed to have destroyed 70,000 bags

of sugar.

In 4/64, the military Plan Omega of Second

National Front of the Escambray group (SNFE), was to be

implemented and coordinated with JURE:

was no indication Plan Omega would be put into effect in

immediate future.

Comandos L (C-L) organization is inactive

in the New York City area.

On 5/12/64, a 25' C-L boat

containing arms and ammunition exploded in the Florida

Keys. (On 6/3/64, C-L leader told an NBC newsman that in

about two months

a mission would be made against Cuba.

C-L offered to sell NBC the moving pictures to be taken.

During 2 weeks in May, 1964, the Movimiento Insurrecional

SECRFT

1

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

Excluded from automatic down-

"CATION

JalO

grading and declassification

RELLAGE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 3-14-98

REVIEL

CASS

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

109-584-3976

ONT PT WAS ADDRESSES

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396

Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-1742

SECRET

Again, press and wire services speculated as

what type of action would occur. JURE, Second National

Front of the Escambray (SNFE), and the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) were the

leading anti-CASTRO organiza-

tions expected by Cuban exiles to start a program of commando

raids against Cuba.

A number of newsmen from radio and television net-

works

were standing by in Miami during May, 1964.

There

was a great amount of expectation and speculation by Cuban

exiles.

newsmen and Cuban exiles

against Cuba.

stating that a new

On May 20, 1964, CISNEROS issued a press release

offensive was beginning on Cuban soil,

JURE was satisfied with the progress, and everything was

going fine.

(V)

On May 31, 1964, CISNEROS admitted to the press he

did not know the whereabouts of RAY, and that things were

not going well.

MM T-l advised there was considerable speculation

as to the whereabouts of RAY.

The majority of Cuban exiles

felt let down and said that RAY had failed. Many exiles

speculated RAY was in Cuba reorganizing the Cuban underground.

Other exiles guessed that RAY was somewhere in the Caribbean

or Central America

)(U)

MANUEL RAY RIVER Captured

On June 5, 1964, MM J-2,/a'

a confidential source abroad,

by the British destroyer 951, ght persons were picked up

at Anguila Key, Bahamas.

This

group was in a twenty-five-foot boat, had a quantity of arms

and ammunition, and was taken to

Nassau by British authorities

MM T-2'-said that these eight persons were as follows:

MANUDL RAY

JUAN DIAZ;

IVERO;

FLA

* (4)

cubA

4.

SECRET,

109-584-3976

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396

Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 105-1742

MORRELL;

NASSAU

NONZALEZ;

ARMANDO, LASTRA;

MIRTA BORRAS;

ANDREW

ST GEORGE

Me SECRE

THOMAS DUNK IN.

MM T-1 identified MIRTA-BORRAS as a twenty-B. APPROX. 1940

year-old Cuban girl frequently seen

in Miami. MM T-1 said that ANDREW SAt JURE headquarters

GEORGE is a free-

lance writer and photographer, and THOMAS DUNKIN was

formerly a reporter for the "Glades Democrat" newspaper,

Moorehaven, Florida, and is now a free-lance writer.

MM T-1 stated that both ST. GEORGE and DUNKIN have

donated money to Cuban exile groups in the past,

accompanied these groups on raids against Cuba, and have

sold the stories to leading magazines and press services.

схи)

On June T, 1964, MIRTA BORRAS,

in a press interview,

stated she graduated

from

Miami Senior High School, Miami,

Florida, and is the foster daughter of ROGELIO CISNEROS.

She stated she was in the Caribbean as a radio operator

with RAY.

She claimed that RAY's attempt to enter Cuba

by May 20th was foiled by a Cuban patrol boat.

Later, RAY

and the group put into Anguila Key to repair a faulty

boat

engine.

When RAY and his group spotted the British

destroyer "Decoy," they dumped some of the equipment on

the key.

RAY and two others stayed on this key to hide

the equipment.. The others left in the small boat to avoid

capture. Later, they were all captured and taken to Nassau

aboard the British destroyer. They were each fined $14.00

and released.

MM T-1 stated that bitter Cuban exiles made

incisive jokes about an infiltration team which consisted

of a Cuban political leader,

four infiltrators, a beautiful

twenty-year-old secretary, and two American newspapermen

00(4)

Factionalism

he is the head of

he tot so intento Tsure it, adated that

This organization, and about a dozen other small indépendent

anti-CASTRO organizations in Miami have united with JURE.

5.

(U)

104-584-3976

NW 45769 DocId: 32327396

Page 6

---

