# docid-32310919

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10308-10133

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-829

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 08/08/1962

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, SAHARA INN NORTH, HOODLUMS, SOCIALLY, FISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32310919 Page 1

353

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INUVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Me. Tolson.

Nir. Belmotit

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Mohr_

AUG 8 1962

Mr. 'Callahan

Mr. Conrad..

TELETYPE

Mr. DeLogoh

Mr. Evans

ALL

Mr. Malone.

'DEARED 8-8-62 6-51 AM LUC

HEREIN IS

Mr. Rosen

NO DIRECTOR,.

FBI 192-3171/ AND SAC, PHOENIX

Miss Holmes:

Miss Gandy.

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3491.

INFORMATION CONTAINEI

DATEY 23 - 94

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

UNGLASSIFIED

SAMUEL

GIANCANA, AKA•, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

BYSP5RJ6

RE SAHARA... INN NORTH, AN ALLEGED GIANCANA" ENTERPRISE.

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM CG SIX TWO FOUR ONE DASH C AND

CASIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH-GATO THE EFFECT THAT ON FRIDAY,

AUGUUST THREE LAST, SEVERAL HOODLUMS WERE AT SAHARA, MOST A

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE

FROM CHICAGO. FISUR CONDUCTED THERE THROUGH AUCUST FOUR

LAST, AND NO OUT OF TOWN HOODLUMS WERE SEEN., HOWEVER, MARSHALL

CAIFANO, FELIX ALDERISIO, SAM ROSA WERE OBSERVED, APPARENTLY

IN SOCIAL INTERCOURSE. NOTED ALL ARE CHICAGO HOODLUMS (U

NOTED THAT ALL STAR GAME WAS PLAYED IN CHICAGO

AUGUST THREE LAST. CHICAGO SOURCE ADVISED THAT OTTO GRAHAM,

ALL STAR COACH, PAUL HORNUNG, GREEN BAY PACKER STAR, AND A

NUMBER OF OTHER PLAYERS AND COACHES WERE GUESTS AT THE SAHARA

ON AUGUST TWO AND THREE LAST.(V)

OTHER 4

PCI, ADVISED YESTERDAY THAT HIS PRIOR

INFORMATION THAT WILLIAM BONNANO WAS COMING

REC- 34

NG 9% CHICAGO WAS 92-3/7/-

ERRONEOUS, AND THAT INSTEAD HE IS TO MEET CHARLES JOSEPH

1G AUG 9 1962

BATTAGLIA AND JOSEPH AMATO ON AUGUST EIGHT OR NINE NEXT. (U

END PAGE ONE 107

53 AUG 1 4 1962

NW 45792 DocId: 32310919 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• PAGE TWO

STATED THAT HE RECEIVED PHONE CALL LAST WEEK FROM AMATO,

FROM PHOENIX, THAT HE AND BATTAGLIA ARE COMING TO CHICAGO

ON DATE INDICATED. PCI GUESSES THAT BATTAGLIA AND AMATO

WILL STAY AT SAHARA WHILE THIS AREA. SAID AMATO WILL

CALL HIM WHEN THEY ARRIVE. PURPOSE OF INFORMANT SEEING

AMATO AND BATTAGLIA IS TO PUSH RECORDING OF SINGER MANAGED

BY INFORMANT. INFORMANT STATES AMATO RECENTLY MOVED FROM

CHICAGO AREA TO PHOENIX AREA, ALTHOUGH HE DOES NOT KNOW

AMATO-S ADDRESS IN PHOENIX. PHOENIX NOTE THAT AMATO, ALTHOUGH

NOT A CHICAGO-TOP HOODLUM HAS: FOR -YEARS REPRESENTED HOODLUM

INTEREST IN MC HENRY COUNTY, ILLINOIS, IN NORTHWEST CHICAGO

AREA: 04

AMATO-S MAIN FORTE IS CIGARETTE MACHINES AND JUKE BORES.

HE CONTROLS. THE MC HENRY COUNTY CANDY AND TOBACCO, COMPANY

IN PARTNERSHIP WITH WILLIAM DADDANO,, CHICAGO INTENSINLEDA

HOODLUM.

(.)

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

PHOENIX TO BE ADVISED.

END AND ACK FOR SEVEN MESSAGES

7-38 AM OK FBI WA JDS FOR 7 MESGS

TU DISCO

NW 45792 DocId: 32310919 Page 3

---

