# docid-32326719

## Page 1

Released uter the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Hot 01 1992 711 05c 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90056-10026

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

183-737-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : DOJ/CRIM

TITLE :

DATE: 08/12/1976

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE AMARENA

SAMMY PAXTON

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32326719

21

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Director, FBI

REG 58

183-757-14

- Mr. Theisen

SALVATORE

AMARENA

AND OTHERS

RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND

CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS

ACTION MEMORANDUM

August 12, 1976

Reference is made to this Bureau's memorandum dated

19%6, captioned as above, requesting approval for the utilization

of a body recorder and/or transmitting device in the apartment of a

confidential source of our San Francisco office. Deputy Assistant Attorney

General Jay C. Waldman approved the request on July 14, 1976, for a

30-day period.

Our San Francisco office has been conducting an investigation

into the criminal activities of Saivatore Amarena, Aladena T. Pratiano,

and other individuals. Amarena, Fratianno, and others are all notorious

West Coast organized crime figures and they are allegedly involved in

' Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property, Estortienate Credit Trans-

actions; and Hobbs Act violations.

San Francisco Agents have been contacting a confidential

source who has been present when these individuals have conversations

regarding their criminal activities. The conversations occurred at

Amarena's place of business and also at the confidential source's apart-

ment in San Francisco,

Subsequent to the prior authority granted by the Department of

Dep. ADad. Justice, a consensual microphone was installed in the confidential source"s

Dep. ADI. apartment. Pertinent conversations have been recorded wherein the

Adm. Serv. _

Ext. Affairs.

confidential source was a party to these conversations. The conversations

Fin. & Pers.

revealed that Amarena, Fratianno, and others are engaged in various

Gen. Inv. -

Ident..

criminal activities at the present time.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun

Plan. & Eval..

DS.rar

(6)

Rec. Mgnt. -

Spec, Inv..

SeRB

Signed i fint

APPROVED:

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm.

Training.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv:.

Ext. Affairs.

Fin. & Pers.

Gen. Inv...

Ident.

'Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory*.

Legal Coun VEX 72: 0

Plan. & Eyal.

Training...

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

KAROOM

ÄUG

TELETYPE UNIT

FBI/DOJ

DocId: 32326719

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Rereased under the John F

DATE: 11-11-2017

Kerretty Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 U5€ 2107 Hote) .

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

San Francisco Strike Force Attorney John Emerson has been

contacted and he has stated he feels the consensual microphone coverage

should be continued in the confidential source's apartment and there is

no entrapment involved.

Your authority is requested to continue to utilize a microphone

on a consensual basis in the confidential source's apartment at San

Francisco, California, for an additional 30-day period to record conver-

sations by the confidential source and individuals involved in this investigation.

-2-

DocId: 32326719

Page 3

---

