# docid-32158403

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10127-10153

RECORD_SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 100-84913-1082

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/30/1964

PAGES: 17

SUBJECT: JR, JFK, ASSA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

11/03/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

NW 45662 DocId: 32158403 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECREI

1/30/64

AIRN

8/ 4/98

CLASSIFIED BY SObS 540/mi

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

131

OR LITOS 10025 ST

ALL INTORMATION CONTATNED

BAG, PEO (100-18518) 14X4

YUGOSLAY INTELLIGHICE ACRIVITIES

IN THE U.S.

IS - 10

Classified lo

05 RmB/ GaL

RclF0alrtel 1/23/65.

TAEORNATION

SEE BORSE

BREIN CAS

RIGHLY

DOOL

TONES

OBTAZNEO

HIS

SOU:

UKURT

COMPUNE

CATIONS

BUST

HEGLEY

SIT

OBTAINED

ABEL

TAINEDIEN

COMANOR

OTHER 1B, 1C

copy of a report tunishod

by

•S.XS)

IT (972S nOt WITH SAS JOIN PAUL LOONIS (E)

and

MALCOLM G. REGGIE under secure

conditions.

Arrangerents vero ndo on this date for a

subsequent noting vith tho informant

9311

he told wader soure conditions. Co

neoting

One

copy

New

Fort

8r084

1g

viet

inetent

airtol is being

: Lurniched

diplenatic

establdehnents

located in that

Bureau

1)

Now Yorks (InRo) (RE)

2-84931-1

SEARCHED

(1 =

JLL0-1

(6)

AIRTIE,

#31

GiBBONS

DERDAK

COCHRANiE

MULLANIdn

SECRET

YORK

I MAIRONL

aderie w0-955.2.

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 2

---

## Page 3

130 100 1851870) (4)

JOSE LUIS FERNANDEZ/ DE CASTILLEJO

First-Secretary,

o1" Spalo

Code

Name:

"AMIGO"

The

and [CASTILLEJ/0111

scheduled

wooting between the informant

be

held

Ass previcusty scheduled on

<2/4/64 at 1:307p.n.

IS]

scheduled meetinge- ($)

the

sane victatty of previously IS]

Immediately

tolloving this meeting informint vill

initlate

contact with

WTo to arrange for transfer of reports

received fron CASTILLEJO/ for clearance by appropriate

representatives of the U.S. Department of State (USDS):

[S]

During the course of instant noting informant_ returned

reports previously turntshed him by CASTILLEJO/as set

(s.]

forch in referenced W7Q airtel, page 2,

through 8.

The disposition of these reports vas as follows:

1.

"Panama"

(According to CIA reporte and

so forth)

Forwarded as coded Tetter

(5)

2.

"Panama" (dated January 21)) (S)

Not forwarded

("Relations Betreen the U.S. and Bussia"] (S)

Forwarded by cable

4.

[Relations Between the U.S. and Russia"] (S)

Forwarded by cable

3.

["secone Trip to Europe" (S)

Incorporated with iten one and forwrded

aa coded letter.

b. ["'torocco"] (S)

Forunided as coded lotter

- 2-

HW

45662 DocId: 32158403 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRET

070(200 18518]*/ (4)

"Deoting in ladrid of

ol Spain and Portugal"

the Foreign Ministers/

(5)

Forwarded as codod letter

b. ["Meeting Begal Johnson"

1 (5)

Forwarded an coded letter

C::

Errench Trade with Cuba*

(S)

Not torwarded

d.

("Segal Visit to Hashington* (S)

Tacon prated mate ten" above da

?. (Ceneva Disarament, January 3107 (S)

Forwarded as cable

8. C'Zanathan

(5)

Forwarded as coded letter

Informant advised that caring his noxt schoduled

meeting vith CASTILLE he anticipates Increastug ICASTIL&J0 ] (5)

paymente to posalbly $350 per month.

Informant advieed

ho would furnish additional intorustion rogurding thie

that

during the course of a subsequent seeting. @)

Roterenced tO airtel, page 4,

notes that during

the informant's last nooting mich BRANDEL on 1/20/64 BRANDIE ] (S)

turnished

report pertaining to a speoch presentod

(S)

L"PITZROT IC LEANY before the Overseas Press Club, Rasaliton,

D.C. 6)

During instant mooting informant nado available the

above roport advising that the information containod therein

had not boon forterded

to Belgrade: 5) (4)

SECRET

- 30

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 4

---

## Page 5

770 200-1851818 (4)

The next scheduled meting between the informant

and BRANDRL 1s scheduled for [1/30/66,

Laursday,

at 1 p.n

(S)

in the some vicinity of previously scheduled abetings.

Informant advised that he would fumiah results of this

meting during the course of a subsequent nooting.

ode Tales

Infomant advised that he had recently observed

fouz cablos prepared by THAILO STEVOVIC/and forwarded to

(S)

the Coordintion Departent,

Balgrade, pertaining to

information received by STEVOVC fron VIS source

"CHARLE." (S)

Informant described these cables de followe: e>

Cable dated 1/23/6/pertaining tola moting?

of the Interdepartmental Committee X/19/64.

Information

(5)

in this cable perimen to anasreent regarding the

sale of theat to/lugoslavia.

Cable dated[x/23/64J

Tate cable pertained to an

Interdepartmental Committee meeting during which agreement

ras reached to provide Yugoslavia with U.S. surpluses. S)

to commence nogotiations regarding the snle

Xugoslavia of agricultural surpluses under pu 45025%

Cable dated 01/21/64)

This cable contains

(S)

intormation pertaining to a meeting betweon representatives

of the various departments, agencics and White House

interested in an improvement in the pL 480 prograng 5)

The Uses and ArDwill forrd a [eircular letter

to all U.S. diplomatie establishments and AID missions.

located abrond in countries that receive U.S. (agricultural (S)

surpluses.

the diptonatic establishments are to be

advised that the V.S, Governont, due to its polley regarding (

SECRET

HW 45662 DocId: 32158403

Page 5

---

## Page 6

1F0 200-18518782 (4)

[balonce of paynents, will during the future soil

(5)

surpluses

to these countries under speciite conditions.

These conditions wore furnishod by "CHARLY" and have been

forwarded to belgrade. It vas noted also that the govermonts

of tha countries lavoived will not be advised by the U.S.

as to the contents of this eircular.

Infornant adrised that he used every opportunity

available to hin to prepare in detall and is his oun

handuriting the entire contents ol

the above cables which

ho presented on this occasion.

(4)

these cables were prepared by the informant in

the Serbo Croatian language /and will be forried to the

(5)

Bureau under separate communteation for [translatiou (S)

purposes.

TPO airtel 1/23/64, page 1, contadas information

furnished

scheduled

D.C.

information ta round to that, the to log portanent

At approxinately 11:50 a.u., [1/29/64) toformant

was visiting in the room of DINITRIJS DIHITRIJEVIC,] having (S)

a discussion with ZIVEO MILIC, Borba correspondent in

Vashington, D.C., andDIHITRIJVIC/vogarding the Bon of MILIC,

who bad recently un away froa home: S)

During this particular time stavoviC/entered the

office of DINITRIJSVIC/and the intormant and ILIC] departed. (S)

Informant imodiately returned to the office of DIMITRIJVIC] (S)

continuing the conversation by commenting bou happy HILIC7 (S)

vas over the return of his son. Unile present in the office (Sj'

intomant discreetly attented to observe the activities of

[STEVOVIC] and observed that he was receiving a large sun of

(S)

In the informant's presence STEVOVIC/ vas observed (5)

(5)

- 5

SECRED

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 6

---

## Page 7

SECREU

ПР0 [00-1851815 4)

OTHER 1B, 1C

counting money roceived

fron/pinITRI JaVIC/and informant

(5)

porsonally observed BTOVOVIC/count the sum or 6500/with a (S)

considerable amount ot money still uncounted, incorant

also observed that BrIVOVIC had signed a receipt for this (S)

"CHARLY. 4] Intormant wes unable to obperve

(5)

exact amount /writton by STEVOVIC, for security reasons,

but did observe that the money was in $50, $30 and $10

(5)

denominations.

From what the informant observed be

estimated that it was his porsonal opinion that STaVOVIC] (5)

had received from DIMITRISEVIC/a sum totaling $1,000.

Informant also empressed the opinton that this money was

be paid to ('CHARLy" on 1/29/64) during thoir luncheon

mooting scheduted fox 12:30 p-I. at/Pierre'a Restaurant. S)

Intomant advleed that he will contimously remin

alert for additional information received frol

vili nato shin intormation available duriam the course of

a subsoquent meeting. §)

LEOPOLDO ARAGEM

Code Name: MEDRO"

(S,

Informant advised that on[1/22/84 DJONDJS POZNANOVIC] (5)

not with ARAGoNlas scheduled at 11

all. at the Dupont Plazag (S)

Motel,] Washington,

D.C. S)

Intorment adulsed that (de accompanted PeRMANOVIC (5)

So this meeting and maitod in the vicinity unti the meetins

was concluded and returned to the Inbassy fith POZNANOVIC] (S)

Informant learned that ARAGON/ furnished/POZNANOVIC / (S)

with a roport pertaining tolzanana/and thatLPOZNANOVIC/ had (S)

pada (ARACON) the sun of 3s0JS)

The exchange of the report and money was acconplished

by passing each to the other under the table occupied

ay then in the bar of the Dupont Plaza Hotel (3)

Informant advised that

he subsequently had an

opportunity to obtaia the report

furnished by [ARAGON/ and

(S)

photographed the contents

thereol.

Informant

furnished

one roll of 35 alllineter film containing photographs of

this report. ($)

SECRET

DO NOT DESTROY - PENDING TITIGATION

- 6-

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page

7

---

## Page 8

180 (00-1851816) (4)

The film furnished by the informant vill

forwarded to the BI Laboratory for processing. ) (U)

In addition,

intorent advised that he has

discovered that due to a lanitunction the desi oceupled by

Periolio at the Yugoslav bassy fails to lock securely

and can be unlatched with a hard pulls)

On Seturday, 1/25/64, intorians proceeded to the

office of POzNANOVIC,

oponed his deskland removed therefron

the following naterial which he photogriphed and returned:

^. Plan of pork for Deceber, 1963

B, Plan of work for January, 1964

C. 1963 calender

* (4)

Regarding the latter iten, informant advised

thàt POroVIC had mintained in his deck)his 1963 calendar (S)

containing sotations reflecting the paitos of his contacts

for the entire goar of 1963.

Informant advised that he made

numerous photographa of this 12-nonth calendar for presentation

during the courso of this meeting.

Informant advised that

this could elearly indicato the exteut of POXVANOVIC'S)(5)

activition for the year 1963. ($)

Interment made available a roll of 35 millimeter

11lm which will be tornided to, the Bureau under separate

commiestion for processing. C)

Alde Monotre Prepared by fugoslav

Embassy Bogarding Attacks Maried

Vugoslav Diplomatic Personnel Assigued U.S.

During the afternoon o1 / 1/29/64/ informant

intttated

contact to advise that he had in his possession

un a1d0 menoire (currently being) prepared by the Yugoalav (S)

Embassy

for prosentation to the

USDS regarding recent

demonstrations egalast Yugoslay diplonatie personnel

(S)

SECRET

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page

8

---

## Page 9

RAGHED

NO 100-18518 65)

assigned to Chicago, Illinois.

Infomant advised that

this adde memoire is to be presented to a reprosentative

of the U.S. by Anbassador VELJO MOTOVIC during the

immodiate future.

Intormant novleed that ho would mahe

The side monoire mas mide available by the

informant, processed at the FBI Laboratory and roturned

to the lntorant durtng this meeting. S)

0u/1/30/Gđ IF 1318-S advised that Anbassador (5)

MICINOVIC hes an appolatmont schoduled uith vILLIAN i.

TYLER, Assistant Secretes!'($)

Bureau of Buropean Affairo,

USES,

for 12 noon 1/30/06.

recess

ineidents against diplonatic representatives assigned

to the Chicago Consulate BICUSOVIC had informed Belgrade

os his dosire to infosa the USDS rogerding this matter

and to present an pide monotre. (§> (4)

Tho Stato Secretariat for Foreign Affairs (OSTA)

in Belgrade egreed with the recommendations formarded by

MICROVIC but suggested that for the present the nade

menotre be presentod on the Assistant

• Secretary of State

levol rather than to highor officials. > (4)

Regardtng the recont ineident in Chicago Lavolvtug

an attack on VINCESLAY VUKOVIC, Secrotary, and thrente to

VINCLA TRAUKHOVIC, infomiant adviced tint KRAJINOVIC is

currently in Washington, D.C., in fear of his lito.

KRAJINOVIC came to. Washington, D.C.,

to thiern regarding

the altuntion in Chicago and expocts that concono vill

attempt to kill him upon hig rotam. (S)

(4)

KRAJINOVIC is espected to depart Washington, D.C.,

for his réturn to Chicago on 1/30/64.

(4)

Inforant desertbed ERAJIHOVIC as an old Zugoslay

Communist Party nonber and a pRominent partient pho engaged

(5) (y)

-

SECRET

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 9

---

## Page 10

CNET

N20(100-18510 1661 (4)

in many battles during World Var XI against the Germans,

Chetutke and Ustashi.

KRAJINOVIC has never been know to

the informant to be & no

mber of the Tugoslav Intelligence

Service. @2 (4)

Intomant sirised that should anything happen to

KRAJNOVIC philo nesigned to the U.S. it would be his opinton

that drestle repercussions would result in relations between

the 0.3. and Tugoslavia.

Such ection night result in a

severance of relations between the too countrles or the

recall os diplonatie personnel tron the U.S. (e) (4)

Informant adviced that he vould continually

remin alert for additional developients which my transpire

regarding

the abovo and oil lmediately furnich samo

to representatives of NO. C, (4)

On 1/30/64/ informent initiated contact to advise

(5)

that on appointsent,

to be contired, bas been made for

MICUNOVIC to deliver

tho Bie monoir

+ to Asatatant Secretary

Cuban of the

USDS at 12 noon 1/30/64.

Intorant

observed a cable dated 3/23/66] foxvarded (S)

by the Tugoslav Embassy tolthe SaTA,

Belgrado, pertaining to

(S)

intomation received by DIOIDJE POSNANOVIC frOn R. KESLEY

of the USDS rogarding the opinion of the USpS regarding a

(5)

nonaligment conferenced

intomant adrisad that this wes

cousidered of importance stace

thie was the firat information

received trona functionary of

the State Dopartment as to

• nonalishment conference. (S)

Infomant advised that he considered the infornation

contained in this comunication to have been very good and

felt that it would be melt received in Belgrade.

communtcation was signed by Arbassador MICUlOVIC. (6)

(4)

atomant advised that ho propared the complet

details of tais commication in his

wn 2A2002012E 19

prosentation during this mecting.

9 -

SECRED

HW

45662 DocId: 32158403

Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET

150(100 1651877(4)

• intormition vas prepared in the Serbo-Croattai

(3)

langusse and will be tornzies to the Burgau unior separate

dention for(translation purposes. 5)

a Correspondont "OTE YO

pepresentatives ot

Corman Embassy in Washington,

Intommant advised that ho prepared the contente

chis compicasion in his our aancuriting for presentatzer

duráng this necting.

Inte report is in the Serbo Conties CS.

Language

and will he forarded to the Burgau for

translation (SJ

purposes.

ssination-President JDEN F. KENNEDY

Infomant recently obsorved a cable foruirded by

the Yugoslav Embassy dated 1/21/66 to the Coordination

Departuont, Bolgrade, by Ambassador VINO MICULOVIC rogarding

intomation obtained by MICIOVIC durtog discusstone with

JANOS RAVANX, Hungarian Charto d! Aliatres, lashington,

This intoma ton porter

DY MICUOVIC LEON RADVANCE regarding the oscassination of

Prosident JOIN F. SaNDY. Intomant adrised that thia vas

of particular interost since it is the first communication

he has ever observed forarded by MICUlOVIC diroctly to

the Coordination Departmont, Belgrade. C#(U/

Infomant advised

that he preparod in his own

hancuriting the outire contente of this communication

for presentation curing this pertiag.

This comnication is

ta Cho Sorbo Croatian language)and w211

Do forwarded to the l S3

Burcau under separato contunication for

translation burposes.

S)

Informant

advicod (that in part this communication

contains

the folloring intortation:

(4)

- 10 -

SECRET

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 11

---

## Page 12

ASTS

NO [00-18518 70% (4)

comments recelved

rogarding

President JotSoN.

(4)

In part, ADzHEy bad/commented that the Sovteta

{cel that President JorboN is a man of losser caliber than

was President KENNIDY and one who must continue the poliotes

of his predecossor.

According to Soviet internation, President

JOHNSON had personally exerted his influence in the sale of

wheat to the USER and the question of the nost favored

batton.

It was noted also that the V.S. le moro realistle

in its outlook on the world today.

Infomant advised that he propared in his own

handwriting the entire contents of this communication for

presentntiion during this meeting.

Tats latornation was

prepared by the intomant ta (the Serbo-Croatian Language 7 (5)

and will be forwarded to the Bureau under septrate

comunication for translation purposes. (S)

Premident JORISON - Geneva Conference

communication dated 1/2264 designated urgent

was received at the lugoslay Inbnesy fron the SSFA,

Belgrade, regardiag intarasion forazded by the

Yugoslav Babassy,

moscon; regarding conments recotved trom

Soviet represontatives regiding Presidons JOHnsoN and the

Geneva nogottations.

Ta part, this intomation is as

follows:

resident coser pill not alter the policies o

orner President Naivil pendior the most bib. elections

The Soviet Unton does not take sortously the CIÁ

report compiled regardins eurrent Soviet econonte development. (%)

(4)

In the to met no pleased with to resetion a

in uzaniun and plutoniun.

¢ (4)

- 12-

SECRET

HW 45662 DocId: 32158403

Page 12

---

## Page 13

170 ([0a 18528 1$, (4)

Soviet ropresentatives do not forgeto say

milita

intervention by the U.S. in Cuba: 5) (4)

Peading

the outcone of

the next U.S. electione,

President

JOELISON

has no desire to met with Premias

Informant propared the entiro contents of this

communication in his ow bandwriting and ta /the Serbo

Croatian language for presentation during this meeting.

This report will be forvarded to the Burenu under separate

(5)

0n/1/29/64 MINAILO/STEVOVIE/net with/PETER WALKER,/ (5)

the replacenons 1eUh154uez

former Boononte

0f21ce ol

Bastora Direpean Altairs,

Advisor;

st 10:30 a.w:

Informant has

Obserycd that an arpolatment witk

meiskon had been scheduled for this time but had beet

congeled,

During a recent

discussion vich arsvovic/ informant (5)

rearred that the Coordination Dupartront,

Belgrado, hnd

rove a his pion of proptains lan autonchile) to a triend

of his in Washington, D.C.

savoric according to the

intormant, ins not completed thie transation and because

of the Coordination Department's revieu of hia reguest he

bon finds himsolt in an enbarrassing and difitcult position.

The Coordination Departmont refused his plan because they

felt he gas noting too last in thie direction. (S)

[stavoric] comented to the informant that ho had. (5)

proposed to give a

cax) to /WAKE, tho replaced /KATZ and (S)

alt arrangenance had besn made ustil the Coordination

Departnent refused his plan. (s)

13

SECRET

HW

45662

DocId: 32158403

Page 13

---

## Page 14

N8O [00-18916163) (4)

STEVOVIC advisedto infornant that HALl has (S,

repeatedly inquired of Lstevovic/ "That about my car? (S,

Savors has advised Aun that the car that he, Beryovic] (S)

now has is WAlKeR's con and that he will mko the exchenge

as soon as he con.

WALKER? is ready

aud Will accept (a ena) fron/STEVOVEg) when/Stevoric can (s)

proceed with his plan. (S)

Intormat has learned that on /1/28/64 stavovIc] 5.

ad a luncheon appolntment with LESTBR DARIBRUN. S

according to 6h0 3.5, Pepartment of Agriculcure

Telephone Directory dated April, 1963,[LESTSR A:

($824, is a Barton and Stock P111ug Dentz

Analyats,

Forelen Agricultural Service. S).

Informent advised that ho is contimously alert

for information regardins (autorobiio] transactions contemplated (5)

by (sesyovic/and will furnish details upon receipt. (s)

3.

(PANT) "STURE"

](S)

on 0/37/64 gavova had a luncheon appointment (5)

scheduled with n Mr. LISTURO.

Informot vás unable to (S

furnish any additional infornation rogarding this indtvidual.

SAVED C. CUTLEM

(S)

on 2/30/64 JOSte PrESsUSE] has scheduled a

luncheon appotatent with/DAvID C. CULE,

*Deputy

(S)

Director Lor Far Fastern Attairag UsUS, "(S)

Informant advised this luncheon sppointment hags)

been scheduled for 1 p.m. /1/30/54] and PRESBURGER/ is to

moot with[cuttista at the C Street entrance to the usos.

- 14

SECREY*

NW 45662

DocId: 32158403 Page 14

---

## Page 15

NO (T0O 10s1a 6) (4)

Informant konra

unnt had accopted a dinner

]es)

RE STANISA CYNTKOVIC) that (S)

Infomant learned that during thie dinor LANg™ (5)

hae connentod rotaruing e question oi particuler interest

saurci in the U.S. L'BAHM furniched internation zorardis

comments nade by Sonator DODDin the Sonato sogarding the

Serbion Orthodox Church in the B.S. and efforts botos

cortod by Belgrade to influoace the church in the U.s.e)

Intoriant advisod thnt [evanovis) cosented that (5)

ho has not had an opportunity to propore this intomation

fer transmittal to Belgande but engected to do so during

he requestod (BANIY/ to ascertain naditional information

rogording the commenbs of Senator DODD, the roacons as

ho mado such a statenat and from when he had obtained

dotalle.

to obtain Inford tarde as hat tod by tant aurora (5)

this nattor.

imbasendor MICUNOVIC has schodaled a black ts

dinter to bo heid 2/4/04.

in attendanco w121 ba Sacreter

o2 StatE DRAN HUSS and bis vice, () (4)

gosLar represencatives proscat vill D® Aabagađe

IGINOVEL DRAGO TARAS AOSIP PRESEURGER aNd OTIJAND 20B an

thele vives. C)

(4)

SECRET:

HW

45662 DocId: 32158403

Page 15

---

## Page 16

FrO [00 18518]%) (4)

Also in attendance will be

WALTER

York Herald Tribund);

JAMES /LESTON,

Chat, New tore times,*

Fashtagton, D.C.t Consist DeJolly MATurk and othere

whom the informant vas unable to

Informat advised that Arbassador MICROVIC has

sovardsd a consumication

to Belgrade requesting that the

SSPA forwarded any spocial instructions for him during thia

dinner together with any topies they desire for him to

discuas with Secretary BUSS:

Internant ndvised that he

would immediately initiate controt upon réceipt of any

intomation received from the SSFA

regarding this dinner.

For tho prosent

Intomant advised that it is

almost a certainty that MICROVIC will diacuss wich

Secretary of State ROSE the question of "pL. 480" and

a, that upstay demonstrated in

Chicage;

Illinots.

16•

ZUPA/ has been rtetting with the informant

and ais fantig in Tashtngton, D.C.

of importance is the

lect

that Les.

ZUPAN is plenning, 11 possible,

children

G2 bring her

to the U.oJ curing the Sumer of. 1004* LM7s. ZUPA

has commented thatlthe and her husband hope to remain in

the U.S.

for a period of an additional three years,)

MIRA BLAZEVIC (Anpassador's nate)

(4)

(S)

Infomant adviced that all of these individuats

continue to bo assigned in Washington, D.C.o

and currently

resido at tho imbassadon's rosidence at 2221 B. Street, M.W

18. Miscollaneous

Informant was questioned regarding the folloping

but was unable to furnish any pertinent inforettoo:

(4)

- 16 m

SECRET

45662 DocId: 32158403 Page 16

---

## Page 17

To [0p-28518 28518(6)

(4)

EARL VOSS

BRANKS 1353U0

7(5)

Diplomatle Courier

[CHARLES

ZALARD (S)

Bumanion Yugoslav

Relations

(S)

"MORI SON"

- CVETEOVIC

"BOB"

RAJRA ROLAR - ROBERI GORDON

DAVID/MELBANK

C. BOGER

E. BROOKE

French recognition China

MoLyasta

Tanganyika

Lana ber

RANA CALCE ATE 500, /24/987631

"SOKAL"

intoration in this airtol deosed appropriate

or dissonination wist be sumitted to the Burgau 1i

their vartous cáse files.

The Bureau will be timediately advised of all

pertinent

developments ta this ratter.

ZECHEA

HW

45662 DocId: 32158403 Page 17

---

