# docid-32333346

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90106-10202

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-219

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM: SJ

TO : HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/04/1965

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333346

Page 1

39

---

## Page 2

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

P.O. Box 4312

San Juan, Puerto Rico. 00905

November 4, 1965

CONFIDENTIAL

COMANDOS L

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

ALL'INFORMATION CONTAINED

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 42495 BY 5de8 300/nds

SJ I-1, a Cuban exile residing in san Juan who is not

'a member: of Comandos I but who is knowledgedle concerning certain

on October 26, 1965:

activitles of that eroyp, rumished the following Information

Ithe leader of the Comandos I group at

Mayaguez,

Puerto Rico,

Puerto Rico. After arriving in San Juan I

recently moved from Mayaguez, to San Juan,

disassociated

himself with the Comandos I group due to a aisagreement between

and the Comandos I leader In Miami, Florida. & U

The other members of Comandos L. who were in Mayaguez aith

recently departed Puerto Rico to go to

Miami for the purpose

o1 ringing a recently acquired "nother ship" to Puerto Rico.

The "mother

ship" was

expected to arrive in San Juan at any time.

on the ship's arrival, all remaining equipment belonging to

Comandos I, including

two small boats will be-loaded aboard

"mother ship" and the "mother ship", along with all operational

Personnel of Comandos I In Puerto Rico, will depart for interational

waters off the coast of Florida.

The two small boats belonging to Comandos I are currently

Located at residences In Urbanizacion los Angeles and Ocean Parkl

This document contans neither recommendations nor

conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and 1s

loaned to your agency; it and its cortents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

CLASS.

1-14-30

ALLI

REASON-POTM

Sp) BSK/Bra / Em

DATE

oF

REVIEN/

TAINED

PCIFIED

" SHOWN

-

CONFSPENTIAL

O71:

DECLASSIFIEI

ON

919/8

3p3. elchok

Excluted from automatie-

downgrading and declassbilbeation

105-117222-219

WHIT OSURE

OTHER 4

NW 45773 DocId: 32333346 Page 2

---

