# docid-32313803

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10333-10010

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-105608-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MOORE

TO: SULLIVAN

TITLE:

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53244 Date:

06-14-2017

DATE: 05/11/1964

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ANATOLI GOLITZYN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53244 DocId: 32313803

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

OPTIÑNAL PORM NO. 10

3010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

ESA GEN, REG. NO. 27

Toison

UNITED STATES GOVERNMỀNT

Belmont F

Memorandum

ALL INFORMATI

Mohr

Casper —

SECRET

allahan -

PASE IS CLAS

"Conrad

SULLIVAN UC

UNLESS

fed.

MILINISE

DeLoach 1

Evans

CIA HAS NO O8METIDAE

DECLASS

1D/OR.

REROME

MRADE DONOORE

DATE:

May 11,

Gole

1964

Rosen!

5P42.383/34/97

Toveb

Tratter

Tele. Room

61.20/1

Belmont

Holmes

classifted by

wron

"Mr.

Sullivan

Gandy

- 23:98

SUBJECT:

NOSENKO

Declassify On:

OADR

Mr.

D. E. Moore

ESPIONAGE - RUSSIA

DADR

Mr.

Branigan

indemone

Liaison

627497*

Mr.

Papich

Lee

MI.

RIGSON-PCTM

23

DATE OF REVIEW

X8-11-841

Declass

Mr.

Turned

Bratio

Bropoplan

Nosenko is the Soviet KGB (Committee for State Security) f

officer who defected to CIA in Switzerland in early February, 1964.

CIA

is convinced he is a plant and has been intensively interviewing

him

for live weeks,

but as of Friday, May 8th, had not been success-

ful

in breaking him.

On May 8th during our discussion with representatives of

and Harry Stone of MI-5 efuture plans con-

cerning Nosenko were discussed by CIA and MI-5 répresentatives

While CIA initially felt that Subject woula break during their

terrogation,

they also recognized the possibility that he might not

as of May 8th were

inclined to believe that they might not be

successful in breaking

him based on current information.

ISR

and Yuri

1963, are part of an over-all

that (MI-5-pelieves that Krotkov

view of the fact Nosenko is being interviewed by CIA in this country,

CIA and MI-SCourrently plan on bringing Krotkov to the United States

Where he

will

be interrogated

and if

broken his

information then

lutilized

in further interrogation of

Nosenko

The CIA representatives and

Wright

remain absolutely firm

in their conclusion that both Nosenko

and Krotkol are plantst

In cons

ection with the continuing interview of Nosenko,

CIA advisea that they

large

they would

tilize Golitzyn for actual

Classified bySp

1/20/55

DEM: td (9)

ALL IMNORMATION

HERETN IS UN

OTHERWISE.

1030

WHERE SHOWN

IAFARMATIONIDS

OTiRESORDEDI

HATE R INCH ME

53 JUN 1YHF3E SHOWN OTHERWISE.

ЛА

SECR

SOVIET

53244 DocId: 32313803

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MR. MOORE - MR. SULLIVAN

YURI NOSENKO: ESP-RUSSIA

-SECRET

ALL REFOANATON ON THIS

PASE IS CASSITED (SS

UNLESS ROSATED OTHERWISE

interviews, but did say he would be furnished all information concern-

ing Nosenko and his analysis would be the basis for further action

against Nosenko.

In this connection CIA stated that at the present

time, no information developed by the FBI is made available to

Golitzyn without specific Bureau authority.

They stated that with re

gard to Nosenko's infornation, they would like to secure bureau per

mission to make the results of our investigation (based on Nosenko's

information) available to Golitzyn for his review and analysis.

feel that this will be necessary for successful handling of the Nosaako

interrogation. They also advised that in the forthcoming interview.od

Krotkov they would like to have similar permission from the Bureau for

any investigation we have conducted based on Krotkov's information, but

it is noted that Krotkov had very little information concerning ac-

tivities in the United States and had no information concerning any

Americans supposedly cooperating with

• the soviets.

OBSERVATIONS

Both CIA and the British remain absolutely convinced that both

Nosenko and Krothov are Soviet plants.

If this is so, then the Soviets

are well aware of what Information they have furnished us and the infor-

mation is of no value for future operational

use to us. It is believed

in view of this that we should accede to CIA's request

and permit them

to

make available to Golitzyn for his analysis the information we have de-

veloped by our investigation based

on Nosenko's information, with the un-

derstanding that the information will be paraphrased and Golitzyn will

not see any actual FBI reports or communications.

It would appear we

could lose little from this and if we did not agree and CIA is not

successful in their interviews of Nosenko and Krotkov, they could always

claim that they might have been successful had the Bureau permitted the

use of the results of our investigation

RECOMMENDATION

If you approve, we will advise CIA that if they feel it is

necessary and desirable we will interpose no objection to their furnish-

ing the results of our investigation in the Nosenko and Krotkov matters

in paraphrased form to Golitzyn for his analysis and use in the in-

terrogations.

(и)

Wes

SECO

8:12

15/15/64

NH 53244

DocId: 32313803

Page 3

---

