# docid-32323169

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90011-10007

RECORD SERIES: WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

FBI

WMFO

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

03/28/1962

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

EDWARD MOSS/EDWARD MORGAN ELSUR

MOSS/MORGAN ELSUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

SUMMARY;

v9.1

DocId: 32323169

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleption Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

NET. IN SORMANTON CONSAIRAO

HERZEN L5 USSZASSIRIED

EXONE 2 STATE SHOVIN

ECPR

3-28-62

(S)

SUMMARY

Washington, D.C.

March 28, 1962

Wednesday

8:56am

V. DUBOK tOld LoN•KARPAN that he has become stigntly i1l and

WE 660-Ss) well will not go there tomorrow. (NYC) He asked that A.I. KOLCHING

be told about

the change in plans. Secondly he complained that h

he did not

Buick and then go to the embassy at moon.

2:02am

WE 660-3

tomorrow is payday. KARPAN promised to get something don€

will meet

caller"there" at noon.

they willbe able to visit with him

have to leave at 10:00 am.

jib

AMP BELL (ph) caLls and

• 279-5(5)

the folfowing

toN. Me

meet him _for lunch

Cy at 12:50 a 0p0 00 2a th

says she will.

jfb

2:13am

•Y. MALAKHINA told

SMIRNOVA

(5)

hat a telegram came Irom Alli

2790S](S)

YES (sp) in NYC for N.N. ISAPINKO S/KAYES is at MU 9-7200 àn

case ESAPENKO calls from

Nic he should be told this. RusSes, ok

9:17am

Burne

DAVYDOW

tried to reach MR BADI BUTTIl at the limbassy.

of Irag)

at the VAR Embassy

Board of Education. They will contact each other upon his return

I.D. BUBNOV was called by JOSEPH

irgiria State Cal

that he and

his friend wohld

be leavingthat very evening. It was agreed

that they would have lunch

then at 1:00 pm with the students

followed by meeting at 3:00 pm attedned for the most part by

faculty and that they would

then leave around 5:00 pm for

Winston Salem. TENSKIN said that he would send BUB directons

sor travel Bubluillsend biog material on he and his frlend bur

(100-16592-1467-44075)

SEARCHED

ZERIALIZED

SECREN

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 510/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK) 5/13/97 9/25/97)

MAR 2 9 1962

FBI - WASH. F. O.

(Xy 35939](5)

DocId: 32323169 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Releäsed under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 210) Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

.. 5K7

SECRET

March 2o 1962

D.C.

March 28,

Wednesday

3/28/62

9:43

69-1

SUMMARY

GORDON

The to

he would be glad to see Mc but that right now would not be

convenient. MC suggested that he will be back in town next

Thursdry and that maybe they could get torether then. foxli

said that this would be fine at 4:00 pm. OK

2:25 am

279-S(;

are ready

Arty speaks with Al. +ZVEKOV.

says tht they

"to buy the new Mercury station wagon (Commuter).

They want the 6 cylinder with automatic transmission and

power (B & S), push button radio and electric clock.

They want beige or ivory color.

(Nox heater?)

jfb

2:28 am.

L 279-55

5.28 C

STARVOIrOV by voice only speaking with a de

TDEMAN &

F Stovat 12:15 pm.

arranging for lunch today at Jenny's

ifb

SPOLIN to VoS.

279-s(s) Have him call.

MEDYPEL at Sordeln fussians)

MEDJ is not in.

jIb

9:55

ARTHUR

279-5 5) SMIRNOVS

188248 A. B.C. New York, asks

give

him a call

• When he is free.

to have.

7=5000.

jfb

G.M.

to DEXTER

ANDERSON

WE1 259-s](5) the

State, advising that

OLODNIKOV family ang L.L.

BATOVRINA (and son)s)

will be feaving

tomorrow for the

via train.

will embark the

same day, and leave that

They

evening by boat.

Russian S)

-jfb

10:07 am

MoRe

SAGATELYNA TO PIERRE SALINGER asking if therewill be

WE 007-S5) announcement after the National

Security Council Meeting Sin

also asked if SECY DEAN RUSK was

going to speax. SAL. said

but that there would cnot be any

release followong

this meeting.

bwr

10:10 am

F.I. MARKOVItO NORMAN COMISKEY,

Secy to CYRUS BATON asking

279-SS CoM IT there are any food prohibitions as related to MR. EATON.

61-17

CoM pointed out that EATON

is a light eater; that he drinks

little

scotch, and

for the oportunity

• SECRET

at Told that he would no doubt

gaimand is very anxious to meet himosi

(X&Y 35940] 65)

DocId: 32323169

Page 3

---

