# docid-32314238

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 791 USe 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10335-10165

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-174-1-78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BU

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 01/28/1964

' PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

FRED RANDACCIO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

~ CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

1...

v9.1

DocId: 32314238

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 112-25-60:

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIFiCIOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-351-

)

JUNE

DATE:

1/28/64

FROM : SAC, BUFFALO (92-174-jub 1)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

FRED Q. RANDACCIO

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU 258-C*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone)

Microphone

I. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

- TID G. RANDACCIO

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

Mosavero's Delaware Inaco Service Centor

455 Delaware

Avenue

Bullalo, New

York

3. Location

of monitoring plant:

Bufralo Office

Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization

- 8/7/61; Installation 8/22/61 - Building location

s. Installation demolished on or abuüü 1/28/63. Reinstalled

5/1/63.

5.

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

3U 258-C* Instalie: 4/24/61, 28 Elmood Avenue, Buffalo; discontinue

1/11/01.- Iransierre, jo above location in 8/22/61. BU 264-07

installed in aparimen: of subject's paramour, DARLENE GRANN, 51 Esse:

243 Bulai, Lali, 51. Disconulite: 6/29/62. Reinstalled

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

Not applicabic

• a. Is a trunk line utilized?

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

i-Busials

Pastored Mail

92-174-66441-78

DocId: 32314238 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Taha

F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennetr

-Assassinđt†ơf ReCoris Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hore

BU 92-174-Sub 1

do Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7.

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone locateâ In a W. E. 6041A Key located on wall in

small office of Delaware Texaco Service Center.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

. See

attached

10.. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No

:11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Subject is known to seven live informants, but none are in a

position to furnish information of nature furnished by BU 258-0%.

12. Has security factor changed since installation?

No

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

•14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs

for plant premises:

None. Plant at Buffalo Office.

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant. ?

- 2 -

DocId: 32314238 Page 3

---

