# docid-32299755

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10035

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-3267-201

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/16/1962

JRO, ASSOC, RENTED CAR, VISIT, DOCTOR, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299755

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy'Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

MAY 1 61962

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont....

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.

Mr, DeLoach

Mr. Evans L

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen L

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

MI. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 5-16-62 7-40 PM NRB

TO DIRECTOR 92-3267

FROM SAC LOS ANGELES 92-113C

JOHN ROSELLI, AKA. AR

ROSSELLI STILL RESIDING LA APARTMENT AND CONTINUES USING CAR

p OBTAINED MAY ELEVEN LAST FROM STANDARD CAR LEASING, BOH. CALIF.

SOURCE AT THIS FIRM ADVISED ROSSELLI RENTED CAR FOR ONE

: OR TWO

WEEKS AND TOLD SOURCE WAS HAVING WORK DONE ON HIS EYES AND NEEDED

CAR TO VISIT DOCTORS•

LA THREE FOUR FOUR FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT ROSSELLI AND JAMES

P. CANTILLON WENT TO HOLLYWOOD PARK RACE TRACK TODAY.

PARTIALLY COMPLETED EXAMINATION OF DEPOSITS TO JUDITH CAMPBELL-S

BANK ACCOUNTS, BANK OF AMERICA, SUNSET DASH LAUREL BRANCH INDICATE

THAT SINCE AUGUST NINETEEN SIXTY ONE SHE HAS RECEIVED ABOUT EIGHT

THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM RICHARD M. ELLWOOD WHO IS CLOSE FRIEND AND

WHO IS NOW ENGAGED IN MANAGRMENT CONSULTANT WORK@2-3267-201

END. ACK PLS

10-44 PM OK FBI WA WS

IN2AICE

5 MAY 1'7 1962

TU DISC

122.182

!!!"

DocId: 32299755 Page 2

---

