# docid-32291479

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10255

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-66742-1ST NR 348

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/06/1964

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

PAL, INVEST, COOP, DOJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291479 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Retords Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotey?

DATE: 11-14-2017

11/6/64

AIRTEL

TO:

Director, FBI (137-8185) (87-66742)

FROM:

JAC, Miami (137-New)

RE:

LA 4410-C-TE

TOP ECHELON CRIBINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM

Re Los Angeles airtel to Bureau, 10/30/64 and

Bureau airtel to Miami, 11/4/64.

Reference for previous

information concerning

the informant, los Angeles airtel

to Bureau, 10/14/64.

The Bureau's evaluation of the trial and prosecu-

tion trial strategy in the case of feLIk ALDERISIo, as set

out in Bureau airtel to Miami dated 11/4/64, is very aceurate

and complete.

On the afternoon of 10/23/64, SA JOWN P. LENIHAN, *

to whon the ALDERISIO case was assigned in Miami, had a

conference with USA WILLIAM MEADOVS and Departnental Attorneys

WILLIAM KENNY, (Ol Miani) and EDWARD "TED" HARRENGTON, (of

They related they had that morning spoken to witness

LITBERG and all said they had never before seen anyone who

was so terrified and that he was alnost distraught.

They

added he threatened to comit suicide by jumping out of the

window of the court house i1 he was forced to face ALDERISIO.

All three attorneys said they felt so sorry for LIBERG that

they allowed him to return that date to los Angeles.

3

Bureau (AM-RI)

2

Los Angeles

(ANU) (137-2061) (Ene.

4

pire

Bant (2 - 197-NOW) (1-87-16469)(1 - 92-119)

EWS: amc

(9)

ORIGINAL FILED IN

ABJAN 4

87-667642

NOT PROARDED

AIL MFORERTION CONTANER NOV 11 1964

1965 4/3 MERENIS ENCLASSIFIED

035E 1/24/96 8N SPUELWAR

DocId: 32291479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: - 11-14-2017

MIM 137-New

Their strategy in subpoening LITBERG was to-sake.

sure that ALDERISIO would see him in an effort to keep

ALDERISIO from taking the stand in his own defense.

Since

ALDERISIO was not charged with threats against him, LITERG

could only be used as a rebuttal witness at best.

ANTHONY RICCI, aka Tony Ricei, Tony Gobels, has

been in the Miami, Florida area for some time.

He resides

in Hollywood, Florida, with his ex-wife, LAVERNE ALEXANDER.

ol, during the latter part or 1905, and the

irat seven months of 1964, spent his time at the Goldei

Nugget Motel, Miami Beach, where he would play cards and

associate hinself with other hoodlums.

The motel is patronized

by the "Chicago crowd" during the winter season.

and influence at the motel.

RICCI has also been named as a local "shylock."

Miami is interested in informant's past and present*

knowledge of RICCI; who instructed him to contact RICCi and

their knowledge of the exact or proximate area to go to; what

actually was discussed between RICCI and informant; did

formant report back and 1f so, why, to RICCI alter recontacting

U. S. Attorney.

communication for Miami to HICCI's control file, 92-112.

Referenced Bureau airtel reguested Miami to furnish

the Bureau with its views concerning the informant's statement

that, according to Miami hoodlum TONY RICCI, Departmental

Attorney BILL KENNEY was in the hip pocket of the hoodlums in

Florida and that RICCI knew the outcome of the trial of

ALDERISIO would be an acquittal.

Miant has no specific in-

formation indicating hoodlums have such control over Departmental

Attorney WILLIAM HONEY, who is assigned at Miami.

- 2-

DocId: 32291479 Page 3

---

