# docid-32310063

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10302-10007

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-1ST NR 2514, 2ND NR 2514

Document Information

- ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/09/1969

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, DEPOSITIONS, RES, CERRITO,

JOSEPH, VERSUS, TIME, INC., LIFE MAGAZINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

i..

v9.1

DocId: 32310063

36

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John !. kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

Tronsmit the following in

AIRIEL

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

ALRMAIL

(Priority )

41/17/69

10:

FROM :

SUBJECTE

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3434)

SAC- SAN FRANCISCO (92-124 )

JOSEPH CERRITO, aka

AR - PERJURY

00: San Francisco

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPLRACY

U0: New York

Re San Francisco letter to the Director, dated

January 9, 1969.

The following information was furnished to

SA RUDOLPH H. MANCINI by SP 2550-C_TE on 1/16/69:

On 1/16/69, he contacted MANNY FIGLIA at his

used-car lot, San Jose, California, and during conversation

Informant discussed his current tax problems with State

and federal authorities regarding delinquent taxes for

1967.

FIGLIA stated, "Let's talk to JOHN about this,

he wants to see you anyway." After making a telephone

call, Attorney JOHN ARDIZZONE, nephew of JOE CERRITO,

appeared at the lot and inquired about informant's tax

problems.

Intormant explalned that he had met with

appropriate authorities on that morning and the matter

was resolved when he agreed to make payments on these

ARDIZZUNE stated that if informant needed help

in the future with his taxes, he would be glad to assist

Bureau

92-6054-

2 - 92-6054

2 - 166-3776

HOM RECORDED

- New

York (1 - 92-2300)

1-

92-657)

201 FEB 11 1969

Vegas (166-1217)

1 -

92-285

- San

Francisco

CARBON COPY

RHM : cac

(16 )

Approved:

81 FEB 191969

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32310063

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 19920014 USC 2107 HOtEl-

DATE: 11-14-2017

RAM: Cac

N92-124

ARDILLONE then, while done with the informant

displayed a typewritten letter and a news clipping fron

a Washington, D.C. newspaper, possibly the "Washington

Post". Informant advised the typewritten letter appeared

to be from some law firm and he noted only the name

"WASSERMAN". While he was reading the article, ARDIZZONE

contnued to talk to him and he did not obtain the exact

details, however, in essence it contained information that

some "judge" was demanding an investigation into practices

utilized by "Time-Life" magazine to acquire information

regarding a suit placed against them.

Informant said

he could recall no specific reference to the JOE CERRITO -

Life Magazine libel suit but did recall that the article

indicated that Life Mgazine was offering people money to

testify in their behalf.

ARDIZZONE commented "They are sure trying to

bang JOE". He ater said,

"You know, this is the break

we have been waiting for.

" ARDIUZONE pointed out that

he was aware that the informant and many of the "other

boys" had been questioned in the past by the FBI.

stated, "What would you say to signing an affidavit to

the effect that you have been questioned by representatives

of Life Magazine and they offered you money to talk".

Informant commented that he was willing to

prepare such an affidavit but, "What should I say?" ARDIZONE

advised that "You don't have to say anything. We will

prepare all the papers and fill in the details. All

you have to do is sign it." Informant stated he was

agreeable to signing such a document. ARDIZZONE replied

JOE said he could count on you and the other

boys." Informant inquired as to when he would sign this

affidavit and he was advised that MANNY would contact him

when everything was ready. ARDIZZONE further stated that

perhaps they would never have to use the affidavit and

they might just "pat them in the drawer unless they are

needed." Informant advised that just prior to his departure,

MANNY stated that he would contact informant when everything

was ready.

2

DocId: 32310063 Page 3

---

