# docid-32305864

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/20/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10494

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2340

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

collection det of 1992

144 U5C 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45839 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ROBERTS, DELBERT D.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/17/1968

'PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, TRIPODI, JAMES VINCENT, QUATTRONE,

COSMO ANTHONY, PERSONAL HISTORY, BKG, REL, RES,

EMP, CRIMINAL RECORD, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT,

LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES, PHYSICAL DESCR,

NATURALIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

19.1

HH 45839

18

DocId: 32305864

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CI 92-557

CINCINNATI

AT STEUBENVILLE, OHIO

Will continue to develop information regarding

the LA COSA NOSTRA, its members, and their activities through

informants and other sources.

Will attempt to identify any additional members.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The background for JAMES VINCENT TRIPODI and

COSMO• ANTHONY QUATTRONE in this report is being set out for

the information of the New York, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh

Divisions, and dates are not being carried

in the investigative

period since information previously furnished to the Bureau.

Investigative period includes the dates QUATTRONE and TRIPODI

identified as LCN members.

INFORMANTS:

dated 10/1574T, 40 4/15/ra1 Crime Survey, Cancinnati Division,

CI T-2 is CV 344-C, contacted by SAs FRANK G. DOUDS,

DELBERT D. ROBERTS and E. ARTHUR RIEGE.

CI T-3 is CI 463-C, contacted by SAs DELBERT D.

ROBERTS and E. ARTHUR RIEGE.

CI T-4 is CI 477-C-TE, contacted by SA DELBERT D.

ROBERTS:

stepha 5-11:470

CI T-5 is CV 553-C-TE, contacted by SA JOHN J. BARRETT.

CI T-6 is CV 421-C-TE, contacted by SA JOHN J. BARRETT.

CI I-7 is CV 798-PC, contacted by SA JOHN J. BARRETT.

CI T-8 is CV 701-PC, contacted by SA JOHN J. BARRETT.

•- B*

Cover Page

'-.

NW 45839 DooId: 32305864 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CI

92-557

REVIEWED BY

ELEX. TASK FOFICE

1249890

NICEROR IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Steubenville, Ohio, and

EUGENE DE PALMA, 300 South

Seventh Street, Steubenville, Ohio

Petition for Naturalization Number 2418, dilec

November 26, 1940, was denied by Immigration OtticIals or

the grounds that the Petitioner - TRIPODI, had failed to

establish good

moral character during the

law.

period required by

On August 29,

1940, TRIPODI registered as an alien

in accordance with the

Alien Registration Act, and stated he

had been arrested four times.

On March 2, 1944, he executed

Form AR-2-A (Alien Registration) and admitted having been -

arrested seven times.

This matter had previously been pre-

sented to the United

States Attorney, who informed INS that

no

prosecution would be instituted.

On July 10, 1942, a question

and answer statement was taken from one FRANCESCO PETROLO in

connection with a violation of the Immigration Laws.

Mr. PETROLO stated that he owned the Star Cigar Store at 136 North

Sixth Street, Steubenville, Ohio, and that in the rear of this

store a gambling business was operated by JAMES TRIPODI.

During an investigation conducted in connection with one BRUNO

TEGANO, information was

obtained that said BRUNO TEGANO was

employed as a "pick-up" man for one "JIM." who operated a

lottery at the Star Cigar Store, North Sixth Street, Steubenville,

Ohio.

The persons who gave the

information subsequently ad-

mitted to INS officials that the "JIM" to whom they had re-

ferred was "JIMMY TRIPODI."

JEK Law 11(a)

In view of the fact that instant Petition was filed

on November 26, 1940, it was

necessary for the Petitioner to

show that he had been

a person of good moral character for a

period of five years immediately preceding the filing of the

Petition until the date of his admission,

The evidence mentioned

- 11 -

92-6054-2340

----

HH 45839

DocId: 32305864

Page 3

---

