# docid-32298609

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10222-10385

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-3432-87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/29/1960

53

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, RAB, ASSOC, SUR, CITIZENSHIP, INTV, NASO,

VINCENT J., EMILY, LANZA, JAMES J., IDENT RECORDS,

ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, PROPERTY, B/F INT, TRA, FGJ

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)2; 11(a)

Redact

11/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

v9.1

HIT 45737

DocId: 32298609

Page 1

2

Date:

4/24/201

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 45737 Date:

11-17-2017

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT.".

"Memoranaum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3437)

FR

SAN FRANCISCO (92-123)

- SUBJECT:

JAMES JOSEPH LANZA

DATE:

12/29/60

roth

Enclosed are an original and five copies of

the letterhead memorandum prepared by SA HERBERT K.

MUDD, JR., which is captioned and dated as above.

The informants used in the preparation of

the letterhead memorandum are identified as follows:

San Mateo, California.

SF I-2 is Miss ANN RUSH, Supervisor, State

Selective Service Headquarters, Sacramento, California.

SF I-3 is CSSF 50-X, identity known to the

Bureau..

SF T-4 New York State Board Legislature on

Government operations (Watch Dog) which made available

A 13

to the New York Office certain confidential reports of

the Pennsylvania State Police.

The Pennsylvania State

Police report on RUSSELL BUPALINO dated 12/15/57 set

förth information reported in details of this report.

Identity protected as requested by New

York Office.

SF I-6 is surveillance conducted by SAs

this

3.812

CHARLES J. PRELSNIK, JAMES PE NYE, CHARLES G. CAMPBELL

and GEORGE HARTLEY.

' T-? is surveillance conducted by SA ALBERT

P. CLARK,

Bureau (Enclosures 6) NO

ROBERT S. BERRA CASA MAN EAT.

San Francisco

HKM: paf

lee menurt

and in 4718

ENCLOSURE

REC- 74-

EX 107

933422

82 JAN'& 1961

ỐI JAN 2 3 196P

R

87

174 45737

DocTd: 32298609

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 92-123

HKM: paf

'Street, San

SF I-8 Mr. FRANK WILLIAMS, INS, 630 Sansome

Francisco, California.

SF T-9 is R. EHLERS, Accounting Department,

Pacific National Bank,

333 Montgomery Street, San

Francisco, California.

SF T-Il is mail cover on 559 Washington

Street, San Francisco, California.

SF T-13 ERWIN G. BROWN, Supervisor, Income

Tax Division, California

Franchise Board, Sacramento,

California®

SF I-14 is CSSF 2087-C whose identity is

known to the Bureau.

SF I-15 IS JOHN JAMES SCARDINI, 1620 Farrell

Terrace,

Farrell, Pennsylvania, owner Tri-State Music

Company.

SF T-17 is J. WEHR, Intelligence Squad,

Internal Revenue Service, San Francisco, California.

SF T-18 is

PCI, Albany,

New York, former employee of JOSEPH BARBARA.

SF T-20 survellance by SAs MAX H. FISCHER

and ROBERT L. HAMILTON.

SF T-21. IS SA ROBERT U. MANN.

SE I-5 is the Telephone Company in Los Angeles,

California.

INS.

REVIEWED BY FBWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9/4/92 DAB

1 RELEASE IN RULL

RELEASE IN PART

• TOTAL DEMIAL

REVIEWED BY ENWJFK TASK FORICE

ON

122/98 cal.

RELEASE IN FAL

E RELEASE IN PART

L

TOTAL DENTAL

JEK Act 6 (4)

NW 45737 DooId: 32298609

Page 3

---

