# docid-32293811

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10212-10087

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-4355-90

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: REPPUCCI, CHARLES A

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/28/1970

* PAGES :

54

SUBJECTS :

MANOCCHIO, LUIGI GIOVANNI, VENDITUOLI, FRANK

ANTHONY, FUG, INVEST, LEADS, WHEREABOUTS, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293811 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2917(Rcv.$2-19-671

PEDERAL BUREAU OF PALESTIGATION'

arrest or amen

"JONTON

TITLE TE CASE

- 19320N

LUIGI GIOVANN MMOchO

FUGITIVE,

FRANK ANTHORY VENDITUNLI,

FOGICIVE, IO 44346,

ET. AL

GATE

4/22870

INTEATIRATIVE PERIDO

10/3/55 - 4/21/10:

REVERENCES:

1- REPPUCCI

CHARACTER OF CASE

aki-

8-11-69

ICAR-GAMBLING

-578'20

Report of

SA SEAN M. MCHBENNY dated

Bogton

2/A3/TOE SA CHARLES A. REPrUCCI dated

4/2/70 at Boston:

rempus isoter to Boccon tated 10/23/09 (IO)

Baltimore lotter to Boston Rated 1/29/70 (I0)

Philateinke lour to Boedon dated 2/5,70

ểnd 3/1,518 (10)3

TYPEI

nle

Las Voura

Jetter dured 2/20/70 (10).

no bet otten to on a a 2/2/7 20%0.

Butte letter to boston dare PRoTe CIO

New York Rourine Stan to Dosson gated 2/26/70 (To).

ACCOMPLISHMENTS GIENED

CONVIO

AUTOS

EUC:

FING

LACQUIT

RECOVERIED I TALS

CASE MASIDESHI

PENDING QUER ONE YEAR [INES ISEN:

PENOING PROSACUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

APPROVED

тте

SPECIALRACENT

INSCHARGE

cureau 1266426

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACÉS BELOW

Albany 1466-864

2- Buffalo (466-229)

1166-4/355-90.16612

2-Chaz (36-259 ALL INFORMATION ORNAMED

3-Boston

(166-315)

MEREIN IS UMCLASSIFIEA

Discotration Be

i writ

DALE 7-1E1

cligatepu

pas And

1 Lost Figo

manized

SINI ACT.

59 JUN 4

1970

DOVER CASE

CXO:1 18880-798-441

DocId: 32293811

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hol

DATE:. 11-14-2017.

BS 166-845

LEADS (CONTINUED)

BOSTON

AT PROVIDENCE, REODE ISLAND

(1) Will maintain contact with informants and

sources to locate subjects. u

(2) Will recontact relatives

and friends of the

subject to ascertain their present whereabouts.

AT BANGOR, MAINE

Will exhibit photos of subjects in Blue Lake,

Mainebeen or are now in this area.

area to determine if either or both of subjects

AT PORTLAND, MAINE AND YORK BEACH,

MAINE

Will locate summer home of JOHN "BLACKSMITH" VICCA

and conduct appropriate investigation to determine if

subjects could be residing there.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 10/15/69 the Phoenix Division furnished the following

information:

The delay in covering this lead occurred as a result

of a change of personnel in the Tucson Resident Agency handling

top echelon crininal informants and the subsequent need for

the new Agent to re-establish contact with these informants

and gain their confidence.

On 10/13/69, PX 777-C-TE advised this source had never

heard of subject VENDITUOLI nor one FRANK VENDI.

on 10/13/69,

PX 796-PC advised that the names of the

subjects have not come to the attention of this source

during association with figures of organized crime in

Tucson.

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32293811

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Leleaseu under the vohn 1. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 165-045

On 10/14/59, PX 713-PC advised this source has no

infornation concerning the whereabouts of subjects and

knows neither one of them.

The above information should not be disseminated

outside the FBI in order to protect the identities

of the informants.

Informants and sources. of the Boston Division have

been repeatedly contacted concerning the present wherea-

bouts of fugitives MANOCCHIO and VENDITUOLI, however, no

information has been developed in this regard. l

02 4/1/70, BS 1131-PC advised SA MARTIN P. CONLEY

that he had received information to theleffect that

during the Labor Day weekend of 1969, VENDITUOLI waS

at the Blue Lake Fair, in Maine.

Informant also said he heard VENDITUOLI is hiding

in Maine and this information comes from general con-

versation in the Silver Lake area of Providence, Rhode

Island.

Informant learned that JOHN "BLACKSMITH" VICCA Of

Providence, owns a

summer home in York Beach, Maine area.

It is possible that VENDITUOLI may be staying

there. In-

formant was not certain of this fact.

occurred as a result of a change of personnel in the

Providence Resident Agency handling Top Hoodlun Program

and the Agent to whom this case was reassigned was at the

trial of the subjecis at the Providence Superior Court,

Providence, Rhode Island from 2/16/70 to 3/27/70.

on 12/17/69 and 1/16/70, BA 1318-C-TE, an individual who

is familiar with the ¿talian element in Baltimore,

advised that he has not seen nor heard of subject

PRAN ANTONE

VENDITUOLI to be in Baltimore.

Informant stated he feels that

if VENDITUOLI were in town and in contact with FRANK ROSCITI,

another acquaintance

of informant's, he,

the informant, would

certainly know of VENDITUOLI'S presence in Baltimore. U

-D--

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32293811

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HO

DATE: 11-14-2017

My 156-2516

On 12/18/63. NY 3949-C advised SA JOSEPH N: CHAFMAN

that SANUEL SPERMAN

was one of two autornies, Who always

represented Dr,

VICTOR B. LONSON, Who engaged in the sale

of josged paintings.

In 1943,

ERNEST 2TIEP was one of a number of indi-

viduals involved

in an alledged jewalry toes or theft which

recoived oncisderable puctiolty in the NY press.

20000 WaS

a jeweses from lungary, uno came to the us in 1919,

and who

Pilod voluntary banieruptey on November 23, 1931.

At the cine

of the above jewelry loss, 200r operated a business at 515

and was described as a loon sheik.

VIMER, BENJAMIN FARICANG apA SAM BIERIAN, an attorney whac

had been engoged

In Icaning large sums of money at excessive

were involved in many transactions Involving thousands

of dollars in the yose prior to the above Jewelry loss.

AgenCy

checks currently.being conducted in the NY

Division have est yeü been completed.

Boston will be advised

immediately upon completion of such investigation.

34

DocId: 32293811

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under. the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hol

DATE: 11-14-2017

BS 166-345

The

following investigation was conducted

by SA EVERENT I. BICKFORD:

on 2/24/70 subject's Io, along with other IOss

were displayed to BS 1251-FC.

on this date the Po did

not indicated that he had any information about the

subject.

On 2/27/70 ES 1251-PO telephonically advised

the writer that he had beard

that there was possibly

someone residing at 241 Cedar Streets Manchester, New

Hampshire, who was possibly identical with the subject.

The source

stated that this was primarily a Greek neigh

borhood and

that the addrees was a large apartment house.

on 3/3/70 the writer displayed

subjectie t0 to

FRANK DOLL, 235 Cedar Streets and to ATHENA VOURGARAKESE

242 Cedar Street, and who is

the owner of the large apart

ment building at

241 Cedar Street.

Neither port nor the

owner of the apartment house could affect any identitica

tion or describe any Italians living within

the building

with whom the subject could possibly be stayinga

Also contacted waS GARY GRANTIKAS, OWDEr Of

Graham's Fruit Market, 209 Cedar Street, and resulüs

were negative:

Observation of this apartment building at 241

Cedar Street, by the writer, reveals that it is in a some

what rundown condition and does not appear to be the

• type

of place the subject would choose as a hideout.

No further investigation is being conducted at

this time concerning the above matter.

47

DocId: 32293811 Page 6

---

