# docid-32304734

## Page 1

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10364

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-634

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/11/1964

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

LCN, ASSOC, LEADERSHIP, MAFIA, NY PDT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

49.1

DocId: 32304734

Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE 36 116/1122059)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

5/11/64

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, NEW YORK (92-2300)

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Rebuairtel 5/6/64.

Steffedon

of 5/6/64; was initially reported by NY 3461-C-TE and has since

been confirmed by other reliable Boston and New York sources.

Since COLOMBO's installation,.

the fact that he has assumed command

of the PROFACI-MAGLIOCCO "family" has become fairly common knowledge

in Brooklyn and New York underworld circles.

Hoodlum LARRY GALLO

has

semi-publicly spoken of COLUMBO's assumption of power as

indicative of his own resumption of stature.

It is believed that COLUMBO's current role is now

widely known in NYCPD circles.

MC HARRY is a Broadway columnist of considerable

stature with numerous underworld and police contacts.

It is

believed doubtful that he would reveal his source, if contacted

directly.

UACB, no direct contact will be made with MC HARRY

but NORMA ABRAMS of the New York Daily News, an excellent source

of this office, will be alerted in an effort to determine MC HARRY's

source.

The Bureau will be advised if any pertinent information

is developed.

REG- 39

92-6054-6341

bureau

-NY 92-2300

JJD: MGH

(5)

58 MAY 21

11964

11N 1a

Approved:

Specif gent in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

DocId: 32304734 Page 2

---

