# docid-32307982

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10293-10340

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2104

Released under the John

F. Kennedu

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:NU 45839 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MUDD, HERBERT K. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

, DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/12/1967

34

LCN, MEMBERS, ASSOC, SJ, SF, LEADERSHIP, CRIMINAL

ACT, ANZALONE, DOMINICK, DEPORTATION APPEAL,

MARINO, ANGELO, INDICTMENT, INCOME TAX EVASION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

y9.1

• IH 45839 DocId:32307982 Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

SF 92-593

HKM: jal

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

It is to be noted that the following LCN members of

the San Francisco Division Families will be located in the new

Sacramento Division territory after September, 1967:

/VINCENZO INFUSINO, SF Family, Modesto, California.

STEVE TRIFIRO, SF Family, Carmichael, California:

DOMENIC FERRITO, SAN JOSE Family, Los Banos, California.

FRANK G. BUFFA, SAN JOSE Family, Modesto, California.

ANGELO GIAMMONA, SAN JOSE Family, Modesto, California.

ALADENA I. FRATIANNO, CHICAGO Family, Sacramento, Califor-

nia.

INFORMANTS:

Source

SF T-1 is

SF 2550-C-TE

member San '

Jose Family,

LCN .

Date

6/27/66

9/19/66

10/24/66

11/7/66•

1/10/67:

2/6/67

7/15/67

7/20/67

8/23/67

6/27/66

Contacted By

S. J. HENNESSY

S. J. HENNESSY

S.

J. HENNESSY

S.

•J. HENNESSY

S. J. HENNESSY.

R. VITAMANTI

R. VITAMANTI

R. VITAMANTI

R.: VITAMANTI

J.. M. PAGE

Location

92-593-1174.

-1243

-1326

-1353

-1416

-1448

-1590

-1634

-1635

92-593-1174

SF T-2 is

SF 2354-C-TE,

Closely allied

with members

San Jose Family,

LCN.

- B

COVER PAGE

HH 45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• .

SF 92-593

HKM: jal

INFORMANTS CONTINUED:

Date

Source

SE T-3 is

SF

2689-C-TE,

member San

Francisco

Family, LCN.

7/20/65

6/16/67

7/16/67

8/4/67

8/11/67

- 8/23/67

8/25/6%

8/9/67

8/16/67

8/26/67

1/19/67

SF T-4 is

PX 796-PC

SF T-5 is

SD 1064-C-TE,

member Los

Angeles, LCN,

at San Diego:

SF I-6 is

AL 2919-C-TЕ,

member

Buffalo, N.Y.,

Family, LCN.

SF I-7 is

SF. 2745-C-TE,

member San

Jose Family,

L.CN.

8/24/65

9/19/66

10/25/66

11/7/66

IW 45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 3

Contacted By

R. VITAMANTI

R.

VITAMANTI

R. VITAMANTI

R. VITAMANTI

R. VITAMANTI

H. K. MUDD, JR.

H. K. MUDD, IR.

SA PX Office

SA PX Office

SA PX Office

SA SD Office

SA AL Office

S. J. HENNESSY

S: J. HENNESSY

S. J. HENNESSY

COVER PAGE

Location

92-1120-1

92-593-1575

-1590

-1625

-1624

-1635

-1638

92-510-713

-715

-717

92-593-1416

92-1320-19

92-593-1243

-1326

-1353

---

## Page 4

I FD-204 (Roy. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

HERBERT K, MUDD, JR.

9/12/67

92-593

LA COSA NOSTRA

SAN FRANCISCO DIVISION

Office:

Bureau File #:

San Francisco

92-6054

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

Synopsis:

The San Jose Family and the San Francisco Family of the La

Cosa Nostra (LCN) continue to exist today under the leadership

of "Boss" JOSEPH CERRITO and "Boss" JAMES JOSEPH LANZA.

Changes in

leadership have been noted and the list of members set forth.

Fifty-six

: (56) individuals have been identified as members of the

LCN and at present only thirty-four (34) members are known to

be located in this area.

There is no evidence to indicate

any of the members

are involved in any type of illegal or

criminal activities nor do they control or operate any type of

racket operation.

Members, DOMINICK ANZALONE has won his

criminal indictment for Income Tax Evasion, and [

now faces a Federal Grand Jury in San Diego for

Possible conspiratorial activity in the

LCN is set forth.

JFK Law 10(a) 2

-p=

DETAILS:

92-6054-2104

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NH 45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SF 92-593

HKM/tjm

The San Francisco Family

"On May 17.

1966,

was

served a subpoena for his appearance

before the federal Grand Jury, Southern District of New York,

New York City, on June 2, 1966.

The Federal Grand Jury in

the Southern District of

New York. was called for the purdose

The New York Office by communication dated June

1966, advised that

appeared before the

Federal Grand Jury on June 2, 1966. In his testimony

JFK Law 10(a) 2

JAMES LANZA was observed by Agents of the New York

Office of the FBI on the evening of June 1, 1966.

LANZA regis-

tered at the Abbey Victoria Hotel, located

at West 5lst Street

and 7th Avenue, New York City. LANZA was observed walking

aimlessly about the Time Square area until about approximately

10:30 p.m. and no contact were made by him during this period.

JAMES LANZA returned to San Francisco on the evening of

June 2, 1966.

The San Diego Office advised by communication dated

January 19, 1967, that SFT-5 had advised on January 11, 1967,

that there are three families of LN operating on the West

Coast and they are located at San Francisco, San Jose, and

Los Angeles, California.

Informant advised that JAMES JOSEPH

LANZA is the "Boss" of the San Francisco Family, and the

"Underboss" is GASPARE SCIORTINO.

At San Jose the "Bogal of

the family is JOE CERRITO and the "Underboss" is MANNY FIGLIA.

Informant also stated that the

• "Boss" of the Los Angeles

family is FRANK DE SIMONE and the "Underboss" is NICOLA.

LICATA.

VINCENZO INFUSINO was discussed with SFT-3 on June

16, 1967, and he advised INFUSINO was definitely made Capo de

Decina of the San Francisco Family by MIKE ABATI while ABATI was

Boss, but it was an honorary title at that time, because they

felt

INFUSINO had some money and might be an asset; however,

to SFT-3's knowledge, INFUSINO

_häs never

had any men under

and all of the other

him,

members in the San Francisco Family were

responsible to SCIORTINO. He advised that, as far as he know,

INFUSINO remains a Capo de Decina in the San Francisco Family

under LANZA.

92-6054-2104

3

NW 45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 5

---

## Page 6

7

SF 92-593

HKM/1w

Office, it will be up to the Attorney General's Office

to make the

decision

as to whether or not

an appeal will

be filed.

On 6/7/67 subpoenas were personally served bi

Special Agents of this

Office on

and

also known

for their appearance before a Federal Grand

Jury which held its hearings in San Diego, California, on

June 19, :1967.:.

The Grand Jury is under the direction of United

States Attorney ED MILLER at San Diego. The purpose of

the Grand Jury is to hold hearings. in the process of

prosecution of

JEK Law 10(a)2

was also issued a subpoena for the

ne medieve the connection with thel

which were to

appeared before the Federal Grand Jury

on June 19, 1967 and testified as to the records of the

No further

questions were asked of

at this hearing.

appeared

before

the Grand Jury on June

21, 1967. After admitting

their identities, both refused to answer any questions

under the Fifth Amendment privilege. Questions asked them

were in regard

Both were

ordered to return before Grand Jury on August 2, 1967.

The 'San Diego Office by communication dated August 10,

1967 advised that Assistant UnS. Attorney JOHN A. MITCHELL,

21

92-6854-2104

HH 45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SF 92-593

HKM/lw

San Diego, California, stated that he had received

correspondence from the Attorney and doctor for JAMES ROSS,.

LA PORTE's brother-in-law who is seriously ill with a

heart condition in San Diego.

ROSS was excused from testi-

fying before the Grand Jury on August 2, 1967.

on August 2, 1967_

appeared before the

Grand Jury but was

told to returr

on September 14, 1967

in view of ROSS's condition.

The San Diego

• Office also advised that additional

Grand Jury hearings will'be held in this matter on

September 14, 1967 and September 21, 1967, at which time

additional individuals will be subpoenaed concerning

JFK Law 10(a)2

22

92-6054-2104

HH 45839

DocId: 32307982 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SF 92-593

HKM/tjm

On October 25, 1966, SET-?

advised that in a conver-

sation with JOHN MISURACA the

preceding Tuesday and Thursday,

nothing specific was mentioned

regarding the HAROLD SMITH

matter with the exception that MISURACA indicated that they

were no longer concerned with the money involved in the

MISURACA was going to handle it and the informant would be

left free and clear as far as it was concerned.

Concerning the HAROLD SMITH

matter, JOHN MISURACA

was interviewed regarding it on November 1, 1966, and MANNY

FIGLIA and JOSEPE CERRITO were interviewed concerning it on

November 2, 1966. All three individuals

declined any comment re-

garding the same

and JOSEPH MISURACA denied being acquainted with

MANNY FIGLIA or JOSEPH CERRITO, even after being advised he had

been observed with them previously and likewise JOSEPH CERRITO

any MANNY FIGLIA denied comment regarding any knowledge they

may have regarding JOHN MISURACA.

All three were aggressively told the FBI was aware

of their plans in the Reno, Nevada area and no trouble was

wanted in this regard and told that their actions would be

closely followed in the future.

None of the three commented

regarding this, all of them denying knowledge of this matter

or any involvement in the LCN activities..

On November 7, 1966, SFT-7 advised he had been tele-

phonically contacted by JOHN MISURACA on November 2, 1966, who

requested him to visit him at ALEX CAMARATA's residence.

He

visited MISURACA as requested at which time he reported being

interviewed by the FBI regarding the HAROLD SMITH matter and JOHN

MISURACA indicated at that time that he also had been inter-

He further

advised that ALEX CAMARATA was present during

viewed as had JOSEPH CERRITO and MANNY PIGLIA the first part

of his conversation, and became so infuriated that MISURACA

told him to leave the room during the latter part of the

conversation which he did. He advised MISURACA was extremely

upset by the interview conducted by the FBI and indicated he

may cut his visit short in this area, and was concerned how

the FBI knew so much about this matter.

SFT-I on November 7, 1966, stated MISURACA has been

so upset that he has not left the house since the interview and

has complained repeatedly to CAMARATA that there were always

two FBI cars in the neighborhood. He advised that CAMARATA

indicated that JOHN MISURACA stated that there is nothing that

they can do at the present time, and that he was going to have

25

HH

45839 DocId: 32307982 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SF 92-593

HKM/tjm

a round-table discussion with all of the members in the near

future, but now in view of the interviews this was indefinitely

postponed.* MISURACA indicated he may leave the area soon.

In february 6, 1967, SFI-1 furnished information that

he was in contact with MANNY FIGLIA and ANGELO MARINO last

night, in San Jose, California, after he had received his

instructions for the meet from

FIGLIA. Informant stated that

he was instructed by ANGELO MARINO to carry out a "contract"

on one JOE VALENCIA. MARINO told informant VALENCIA operates

La Val's" Catering Service in Berkeley, Calfirnia, and that

his individual is in debt to him in the amount of

$4,000.00;

that he also had personal reasons for doing away with VALENCIA.

ANGELO continued that he had also attempted to collect the bad

debt through VALENCIA's aunt, ROSE PESCE, informing her that,

"If she did not pay, VALENCIA would be taken care of."

ROSE

PESCE indicated that she could "care less" regarding

VALENCIA's

welfare and refused to pay the debt.

ANGELO advised informant that he should make the

first contact with VALENCIA on a pretext, and after having

made the contact, the informant would have to carry out the

"contract" alone

and within 24 hours after the initial con-

tact. MARINO told informant that he would be paid $1,000.00

plus

a trip to Palm Springs, where he could "lay low"

for

a

few weeks.

The activities concerning this "contract" proceeded

to the point of securing the gun through ALEX CAMARATA by the

informant. Prompt and vigorous countermeasures were instituted

and as a result the "contract" was cancelled by FIGLIA on

February 7, 1967. -

26%

NW 45839 DocId:32307982 Page 9

---

