# docid-32300698

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10277-10033

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-12

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/19/1958

3

SMO, ASSOC, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45854

8

DocId: 32300698

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

The only info developed to date pointing to the defunct

status of each of the aforementioned companies comes from

Ja PCI of CGO, and OSCAR SCHULTZ,

described

as former director of United Dryer, who was very reluctant

to furnish any worthwhile or first-hand info when interviewed

in cG during February, 1950.

As a matter of info, it has

been previously reported that National Filben liquidated in

1951 with losses said to be around $400,000, The present

status of each of the above mentioned companies and the

MANNARINO brothers alleged interest and control thereof must

be clearly established; bearing in mind the possiblty that

directors and officers identified in, rereps may have fronted

for the MANNARINO brothers.

OTHER 4

During interviews with officers and/or directors, consideration

should be given to making a specific inquiry as to whether the

interviewee fronted for the MANNARINO brothers.

CG is also asked to place a stop

with the source at the Bismarck

Hotel, to insure prompt notification of any future visits to

CG on

the part of SAMUEL MANNARINO and F. W. ZOGG.

During regular contacts with PCI[

he should be

interviewed re his knowledge of the MANNARINO brothers and

results

of such contacts should be furnished to PGO.

As a matter of info re lead to identify A. GOODMAN, in reCGrep,

Miami note that GOODMAN, aka., ABE GOODMAN, was formerly

married to ELLA MAE RIEBLE, Wa., ELLA MAE GOODMAN, NBI #338335A,

a former PeI of PGO, now serving an. 18 months sentence in the

Federal Reformatory

for Women, Alderson, w.Va.,for violation

of the WSTA.

In interview with Buagents, May, 1956, ELLA MAE GOODMAN

stated in 1953, ABE GOODMAN was driving a cab in Miami, Fla.,

ana in October, 1955, was living in Havana, Cuba, where he

claimed he had

a part interest in the Sans Souci Gambling

Casino. GOODMAN added that she last saw ABE around February,

1956, when he was in Pittsburgh for the purpose of delivering

a large sum of money to GABRIEL MANNARINO, supposedly

Approved:

_ - Sent.

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45854 DocId:32300698 Page 2

---

