# docid-32286320

## Page 1

I Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1443

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/25/1964

SGI, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286320

86

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE $ 11-14-2017

(Ficv. 4-17-63)

AIRGRAM

DECODERCOPY

CABLEGRAM

• RADIO

XX TELETYPE

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

1:06 AM CDST DEFERRED 7-25-64 DHM

O DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 242123

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA. AR.

GIANCANA OBSERVED CHICAGO AREA JULY 23 LAST. U

CG 6533-C ADVISED CONTACT WITH GIANCANA THAT DATE

INDICATED HE RETURNED TO CITY PREVIOUS EVENING AFTER SEVERAL

DAYS STAY IN NEW YORK CITY. GIANCANA INDICATED TO INFORMANT

THAT HE WAS AGAIN PLANNING DEPARTURE FROM CHICAGO BUT DID

NOT INDICATE DESTINATION OR ACTUAL DATE OF DEPARTURE. U

GIANCANA INDICATED TO INFORMANT HE HAD MET RECENTLY

WITH PHYLLIS MC GUIRE AND ADVISED INFORMANT THAT UPON

MC GUIRE'S NEXT VISIT TO CHICAGO, HE WOULD INTRODUCE INFORMANT

TO MO GUIRE. INFORMANT BELIEVES GIANCANA MEETING WITH

MC GUIRE ON CONSTANT BASIS. U

AUSA JOHN LULINSKI ADVISED THIS DATE EXTENSION OF TIME

GRANTED U.S. ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IN WHICH TO FILE REQUEST FOR

REHEARING BEFORE SEVENTH CIRCUIT COURT RE FINDING IN CONTEMPT

MATTER OF SAC. LULINSKI ADVISED REQUEST TENTATIVELY TO BE

FILED JULY 29 NEXT. BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED. U

RECEIVED: 3:22 AM EFH

REC- 93

92,3171-1443

HEREIN IS

"ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

UNOLASSIFIED

DATE 4-23-84 BY SP5R56

18 JUL 28 1964

cs

00 AUG 0

1964

If ti

telligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286320 Page 2

---

