# docid-32355274

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10097-10045

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80K

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: MEXICO CITY

TO

• DIRECTOR

TITLE

• EFFORT TO CONTACT

DATE

12/06/1963

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS : CONTACT

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Masassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53199 Date:

06-13-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/26/96

COMMENTS : JFK32 : F6: 1996.03.26.17:38:38:630031

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10097-10045

14 53199

DocId: 32355274

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5?1055

...WANCS:

ACT:

INFO

FA, Callior, CadINor, VM VM 'VR

#e0+478681512

DIN INPO BRIR CITE MEAL 727E.

PECTATE

6 DEC 63 18: 7 4 6 90

I. MICHAEL C. CHONDEN HAS RECEIVED LETTER FROM PENUMBRAO FOL

IS GISTS I HAVE BEEN TRYING TO FIND YOU FOR A LONG TIRE BUT & HAVE

LNFORTUNATELY NOT FOUND OUT ENERE YOU GERE UNTIL A FEW DAYS AGO

WHEN ¿ MET A FRIEND CALLED ALBERTO SLIM ( CHOADEN ACQUAINTANCE)

WHO HAD SEEN YOU IN MEXICO. THE REASON I WANT TO FIND YOU IS

BECAUSE I GOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT IF YOU ARE PREPARED TO MELP HE IN

DIE MATTER IN UHICH I GOT INVOLVED SOME YEARS AGO. YOU HERE RIGHT

WITH ME AT THE BEGINNING OF (PECSTATE) AND ARE CERTAINLY AVARE

OF ALL THE FACTS MORE THAN ANYONE ELSE. I HAVE NOY FOR OVER A

YEAR BEEN HAVING TERRIBLE TROUBLE AND I WAS EVEN BLACHHAILED IN.

TRIING TO AÑRIVE AT AN AMICABLE SOLUTION WITH THE PRINCIPALS IN

WASHINGION.

HOVEVER ALL THE PEOPLE INVOLVED HAVE TURNED THEIR

SIGH OU FE, AND DESPITE MY REPEATED LETTERS AND TELEGRAMS IS

SEVERAL OF THEM I HAVE NOT EVEN MAD A REPLY. I SOMEHOY FEEL THAT

YOU ARE NOT LIKE THEM AND THAI YOU WILL ANSUER MY REQUEST FOR

FINDING AN AMICABLE SETTLEMENT. HOEVER BEFORE I GIVE YOU SHE DETAILS

• TNE GASE AND EMBARRASS YOU WITH THEM, I WOULD RATMER NEAR FROM

YOU UNTIMER VOU WOULD DE PREPARED TO TAME ACTION OR OTMERHISE®.

SECRET

CEPRCTICTION DY OTHER THAT THE ISSUING OFFICE I9 OPE

HH 53199

Docid: 32355274 Page 2

13523

---

## Page 3

MASSICLO MESSA

-FÃO

¿O SONOIO MILL NON AUSTER FON PREVIOLE HOS INSTRUCTIRUS.

PENUADRI DU AUGNE CHODOIN ESPICIAL STATUS AGES AND DELL UNDOUATERLY

CONTIQUE BEN COSTACT IE NO? VIS!? MEXE SESTING MELF.

SE QUEST

CURRENT MUS GUIdONCE.

C/S OMENTI PASTION UNIT DETEEMINED IS THAUEN INDICATOS ALASA LOIO.

'tra si?

HH 53199 DocId: 32355274 Page З

---

