# docid-32296333

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10109

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-148

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/31/1962

2

LCN, CRIMINAL COMMISSION, ML, MEMBERSHIP, TL, JGA,

VAL, LEADERSHIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32296333

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• F.D-36 filev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

ARTEL

FBI

Date:

12/31/62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

D

c 0a Wick

Approved:

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC,

NEW

• YORK (92-2300)

THE

CRIMINAL "COMMISSION";

ET AL

AR - CONSPIRACY

ReBuairtel to NY, dated 12/28/62.

non-Italians cannot be a member of

VALACHI had no knowledge regarding a "Commission"

other

than "Consuleri" or a Council of Six, previously described.

VALACHI specifically stated that MEYER LANSKY was not a

member of "Causa Nostra" but was a leader of the Jewish

mob and always close to VINCENT ALO.

NY 3461-C-TE has advised in the past that no

non-Italian,

Including MEYER LANSKY, is a member of "La

Causa Nostra"

; or The Criminal "Commission".

The informant

stated that LANSKY is used by the "Commission" and the

members thereof associate with LANSKY in various business

connections, but LANSKY has never been, to the informant's

knowledge, an actual "Commission" member.

The informant has been advised to remain alort

for further specific information regarding the above.

NY 3586-C-TE advised SA LEONARD H. MC COY on

12/29/62 that he could not specifically advise within his

personal knowledge whether MEYER LANSKY was a member of the

"Commission"

The informant stated that he would remain

alert for further information concerning LANSKY's actual

status with the Italian underworld 92-6054-1451

]

- Bureau (92-6054)

REG- 24

- San Francisco (92-593) (Info)

1 - New York (92-2300)

18 JAN 2 1963

LHM :rkh

•EX.120.

Sent

nt in Charge

NW 45839 DocId: 32296333

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-2300

JOSEPH VALACHI has advised that THOMAS GAGLIANO

resided at 168 Seminary Avenue, Yonkers, NY, and died of

natural causes about 1953 when he was succeeded as "boss"

by THOMAS LUCHESE.

Files of the NYO reflect that in 1949 mo:

a CI of the New Orleans (NO) Office, advised that

had received information concerning one JOSEPH GAGLIANO

and THOMAS GAGLIANO who had opened a custom jewelry storc, in

New Orleans.

The informant stated that it was his opinion

that the store was a front for some illegitimate enterprise.

He' advised that the GAGLIANOS were allegedly connected with

CARLOS MARCELLO and one HENRY ERNST, who was considered to

be an accomplished safe burglar in the southern part of the

The records of the NOPD reflect that THOMAS GAGLIANO,

FBI #67129, NOPD #3196, and JOSEPH GAGLIANO, FBI #786311,

NOPD #3195, were identical with the individuals operating

this store.

Investigation is currently being conducted by

the NYO in the THOMAS LUCHESE matter to corroborate information

furnished by JOSEPH VALACHI. The Bureau will be immediately

advised upon receipt of corroborating information resolving

whether VINCENT ALO Or THOMAS GAGLIANO was the actual

predecessor of THOMAS LUCHESE.

OTHER 4

- 2 -

9:1-1011a

NW 45839

DocId: 32296333

Page 3

---

