# docid-32330624

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10055

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 182-170-3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/22/1971

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

WILLIAM NOBLE BATES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330624

19

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE

11-14-2017

DL 165-39

SA 165-98

REK: stb

1

ADMINISTRATIVE

The following investigation was conducted by

Special Agent ROBERT E. KLAWITER:

AT ARLINGTON, TEXAS

DL 202-C-TE advised that

telephone number 817-261-9896

was subscribed to by EDDIE HAMPTON/WALSil, the number being

listed in the current Fort Worth, Texas,

Area Telephone Directory

under the name of B. WELCH, 1307 Miscassett Drive,

Texas.

Arlington,

This telephone was located in Apartment 173 of the Wiscassett

Anariments, 115 Miscassett Drive, Arlington, Texas. The telephone

was subscribed to by

WALSH and utilized br well known Fort

Worth gambler SAM BENSON for several months prior to August

28,

1970.

In addition WALSH and BENSON subscribed to telephone

number 817-261-0846 at 1307 Wiscassett Drive, Apartment 173,

but the telephone calls on this telephone were billed to telephone

number 261-9896.

On August 28, 1970, both telephones were disconnected

and

the apartment was vacated on September 1, 1970.

and

BENSON moved the booking operation to Sherry Park Apartments,

2214 Avenue G, Arlington.

On October 17, 1970, the Arlington,

Texas, Police

Department, assisted by Texas Department of Public

Safety

(DPS), Intelligence Officers, raided WALSH's apartment

and arrested him.

WALSH was charged with Possession of policy

Paraphernalia and released on $2,000 bond on the date following

his arrest.

It was subsequently

learned that BENSON was at

the apartment, but had left about one-half hour prior to the

arrest of WALSH.

a well known Dallas, Texas,

RUSSELL, DOUGLAS KATTHEWS, alSO known a5, R. Befer oNS,

was the financial.

the bookmaking operation of WALSH

at the aforementioned Wiscassett

Drive address.

- C -

COVER AGE

DocId: 32330624 Page 2

---

