# docid-32302212

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10280-10149

HQ

CR 105-48538-11

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/28/1956

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

TOLSTOY FOUNDATION, ASSOC, HAHN, AFANASY,

TELCAL, SOVIET NATIONAL, REPATRIATES, NJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32302212

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CC

TELETYPE

URGENT

-SECREF

105-419838-11

June 5; 1956

SAC, NEWARK

RECORDED

UNSUB; SOVIEL NATIONAL ATTELPTING TO SECURE REPATRIATES

IN NEWARK, N. Jo, MES. ALEXANDRIA TOLSTOY, INFORMANI,

IS • F. RENAIR-TEL IN CAPTIONED MATTER DATED MAY TWENTY•

FIGHT LAST AND URATA TEL MAY TWENTI-LIGIL LAST ENTITLED

QUOTE UNSUB, ALLEGED ATTEMPTS TO FRESSURE DISPLACED

PERSONS TO RETURN TO RUSSIA, IS - R'OQUOTE. ADVISE

IF DATA FURNISHED IN LATTER REFIRENCED AIR-TEL DEVELOPED

AS A RESULT OF YOUR INVESTIGATION IN CAPTIONED MATTER.

IF NOT AND IF AFANASY HAHN, TWO NINE ONE MORRIS AVE. »,

NETARK, N.J., HAS NÒI BEEN INTERVIDHED IN CAPTIONED

CONT

ATION

MATTER, YOU ARE, INSTRUCTED TO INTERVIEW HIM, PROVIDING

NO REASON EXISIS TO

THE CONTRARY, IN ORDER THAT UNSUB

MAY BE IDENTIFIED.

SUTEL SUMMARI OL INFO YOU DEVELOP

AND FURNISH COMFLEID DETAILS BY REPORT FORM SUITABLE

FOR DISSEMINATION.

DISINATE EIGHT COPIES ON BACH

REPORT FOR THE BUREAU. DISSEMINATE E

ENPORHATION CONTAINER

PERTINENT INFO DEVELOPED TO APEROPRIATE LOCAI OfFICE

NES UNCLASSIFIED

OF INS. AM, TIMORMATION CONTAIMED

CO

RHM: jab

FLDERAL. PRCAU OF INVESTIGATION

Nichols

CEPTWERE SHOTG

OSTETY IS UNCLASSIFIED BXCKPE

MARCE SOOTH OTHERWO SE.

HOOVEE

co = 1 - New York (InJo) (BY MAIL)

Classified

Declassify

Boả đm ani

(4)

V. S. OEPARTLCYT OF JUSTICE

Belmont

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mason

105-Neu

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

56108-541

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X.

SEE NOTE PAGE

Tamm

Nease

Winterrowd:

Tele. Room--

Dadassin

3 1956

010:

Holloman _

Gan dy -

IME GASKIN

SAELETYPE

! 7:29 Pm ESTORET

JFKS

NH 53130

DooId: 32302212

Page 2

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

120

AGaL

122/25;

Lure

---

## Page 3

-SECRET

Teletype for Newark

NOTE:

Reair-tel in captioned matter, copies of

which furnished Newark, set forth info from

Alexandria Tolstoy, President of Tolstoy Foundation,

989 Eighth Avenue,

NYC, which indicated try unsub

was attempting in Newark area to get Russians to

return home. Tolstoy reportedly received her info

from Afanasy Hohn in Newark.

Info received from

loistoy by li was telephonioally furnished Newar

on 5-26-56. Re Newark air-tel sets out injo re

interviews with two individuals who were contacted

by unknown subject for purpose of getting them to

repatriate to Russia.

Referenced air-tels. both

mated 5/28 and appear to have

Newark has been instructed to shouldn&t in (s

latter-referenced matter to show soviet album S

to hussians who

to repatriation one contacted by unavo ralative

State, AAG Tompkins and INS

advised of abote contacts.

SECRET

-

2

NH 53130

DooId: 32302212

Page 3

---

## Page 4

AIRTEL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

NY, NX. 5/28/56

Transmit the following Teletype message

ito:

BUREAU

**FD- 36

Vir.

Tolson.

Mr. Nichols

Mr. Boardman

Mr. Belmont le

Mr. Mason-

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Tenm

Vr. Nease

Mr. Winterrowd

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman.

Miss Gandy-

atel

UNSUB;

Soviet Nationar

Attempting to

to secure Repatriates. in

Newark,

-New Jersey

TOLSTOY, Informant

IS-R

N

ALL INFORMATO CONTANEO

-HERE IS VAG:19010024/326

DATE 4/4/85

DYSPBBJAKCE

on 5/26/56, Mrs.

ATEXANDRIA TOLSTOY, President of

the Tolstoy Foundation, 989 Eighth Avenue,

NYC, telephone

number CIrcle 7-2922, telephonically contacted

the NYO

and advised as follows:

She received a phone call from one AFANASY, HAHN;

291 Morris Avenue,

Newark, New Jersey (second floor) on

the morning of 5/26/56.

HAHN stated to TOLSTOY that a

person had been around his residence that morning attempting

to get some Russians to return home.

According to TOLSTOY, HAHN was not the person they

were attempting to repatriate but it was another Russian who

was married to a German girl.

HAHN advised TOLSTOY that this man would be back at

5:00 P.M. on the afternoon of May, 26, to see the person that

he was trying to repatriate to Russia.

TOLSTOY used the term "Soviet agent" each time she

of HAHN's return to Russia.

TOLSTOY did not know the "soviet

agent" who had contacted HAHN or

the person who was being

contacted regarding this return.

According to TOLSTOY

there is a colony of refugees around the neighborhood where

this has happened

offico after the receipt of this complaint to lai

RECORDED - 88

SE

(3)

-

Bureau (RM)

1

Newark (RM) WA 53

I - New York (105-new)

Belmont

-K

28

MA 29 1956

derstamed

(8 fed #17)

roor: 537

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

74 53130

DocId: 32302212

Page 4

V.P

122-250

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

---

