# docid-32338854

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/13/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90143-10272

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-370750-104

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/00/1947

3

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32338854

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Ken

Assassination Records Cotted

on Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hobely

*DATE: I1-14-2017

CONESENTIAL

FD-143

siten States Department ot Justice

Federal Bureau of inuestigation

FOR VICTORY

BUY

WAR

BONDS

STAMPS

March 1947

CONFIDENTIAL

R. -3

IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO

FILE NO. -

66-119

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL

OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

AIT. INFORUATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

ENCTASSIFTED EXCAPT

PERRE SHORE OFTERWISE.

RE: -

Title

JOEN HOWARD®

LAWSON, was

ared by shes ence

Declassify. on: 0A0%

Character of Case INTERNAL SECURITY - C

Field Office Los Angeles

umber (J0-1

Type of Surveillance:

(Technical or

Mierophene)

1. Subject's name

and address:

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

9354 Burnet Avenue

San

Fernando, California

Declassify oni QADR

622/95

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

2.

Location of technical operation:

HEREIN IS UNCAASSIFIED

Central Plant

AT INUORMATION CONTAINED

DATE + -1|6-8

Declassiry on:

DADR JIA

PEERE SHONM ORMERVISES.

ALL NEE

FACE 18 SE

3.

Dates of initial

authorization and installation:

HISS HEAT

(016153 not911001/20/11Q4 4542 colomator Canyon, North

4542 Coldwater Canyon, North Hollywood, Calif.

4.

Previous and other installations on

the same subject (with dates

places):

C1/18 /i until 3/19/1001

This installation was at 4542 Coldwaterv

address.

A.

RECORDED

IND tid in

ACONFIDENTIAL

tao 21/499v

COPIES DESTROYET

28 MAR 23 • 1963

5.

Specific valuable information obtained since previous report

with

indication of specific value of each item and what use was made

of each item of information involved: LAWSON is the writer of the

Communist movement in the motion picture industry and accordingly

this informant is an invaluable aide in reporting the Communist in-'

filtration into the motion picture industry and frequently furnishes

information regarding more prominent Coumunist front organizations in

Hollywood. This informant continuos to asvise the effico of more im

portánt Communist meetings an o usually a great aide honover a pro

mrent communist from angeles juri ciction visits Losingalos

DocId: 32338854

Page 2

---

