# docid-32291291

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10207-10067

HQ

62-9-29-665

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/28/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, B/F INT, RESTAURANT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291291

25

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records tollectrol Act of 1992

144 U5C 2107

Mote FD-36 (59TE2-1159)1-2017

FBI

Date:

5/28/63

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

RE :

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

JACK HERMAN, Manager of the Leonard Rug Co., Miami,

Fla., a friend of MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami file 92-101), advised

MICHAEL COPPOLA was now raising orchids as a hobby.

MM 867-PCI advised that JAMES VINCENT PALMISANO

(Miami file 92-503), FRANK PELLICCIO, ANTHONY RUSSO (Miami

file 92-729) and EMILIO DE LIO (Miami file 92-972) own Ciro's,

Inc., which in turn operates Ciro's Restaurant and the Stream-

line Motel. He stated the officers of the corporation, ALEX

CALDERA, TONY MARINO and NICK MARINO, are merely figure heads

and have no authority in its operation. He also stated

PALMISANO receives $130 a week in salary. EMILIO DE LIO

receives $100 a week salary; ALEX CALDERA is maitre'd and

receives $70 to $80 a week plus tips; IONY MARINO is a waiter

and NICK MARINO has no interest in the restaurant or motel.

He also stated PAT CANNON, a Circuit Court Judge, has often

eaten at the restaurant, has furnished racing tips to PALMISANO

and has advised PALMISANO not to play cards on the premises of

Círo's Restaurant. He, in addition, advised that Justice of

Peace HUGH DUVAL often eats at Ciro's Restaurant and PALMISANC

picks up the "tab."

According to his information, RALPH

PETILLO has taken CALDERA's place as maitre'd. PETILLO is a

close friend of PALMISANO.

REG-52

62-2-29-665

- Bureau (AM)

2

- Miami

RFF: ggr

(5)

2 MAY 31 1960

g g i wick

F78

62

JUT I O 7969 ecial Ageh in Charge

Sent

_ M

Per

DocId: 32291291 Page 2

---

## Page 3

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USE 2107

Hotel. DATE: 11-11-2017

MM 92-515

MM 606-C related that HYMAN MARTIN (Miami file 92-218)

indicated he was going to take $27,000 of JAMES CHRISTIAN'S

number business from Broward County and try to give it to FRED

CHAPMAN, to see if he could take it. He also advised that JAMES

CHRISTIAN told HYMAN MARTIN that he wanted to quit working the

numbers operation but he was advised by MARTIN to keep on as his

would come

legal fees, "off the top" of the numbers operation, whereas

as a result of his arrest, for attorney for trial

CHRISTIAN would have to stand the expense himself if he quit

the numbers racket now.

•MM 509-C advised that the Sportsman Billiard Parlor,

23rd and Collins, Miami Beach, a hoodlum hangout, operated by

JOHN ANGERSOLA (Miami file 92-100) and managed by JOHN ZANETTI,

a nephew of ANGERSOLA, closed and undoubtedly will not reopen.

He also reported that NAT FARBER (Miami file 92-118)

sold his trailer court in Miami recently.

=2.

"DocId: 32291291

Page

---

