# docid-32318664

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10362-10024

RECORD SERIES: PH

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information \

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

11/04/1993

' PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ADDITIONAL FIELD OFFICE MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT,

v9.1

DocId: 32318664

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

0038 MRI 01510

RR RUCNFB FBICG FBIPH FBIPG FBINY FBIWMFO

DE FBIMM #0037 3082209

ZNY SSSSS

SECREZ

R 042124Z NOV 93

EM FBI MIAMI (2028-104-57452 (8C1-2) (P)

TO DIRECTOR FBI/ ROUTINE/

FBI CHICAGO/ ROUTINE/

FBI PHILADELPHIA/ ROUTINE/

FBI PITTSBURGH/ ROUTINE/

FBI NEW YORK/ ROUTINE/

FBI WMFO/ROUTINE/

BT

SECRET

CITE: 1/3460/1

PASS: FBIHQ FOR NSD, CI-2D.

?

ATEL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERÈIN IS UNCEASSIFIED EXCEPE

WHERE SHOWN OIHERWISE. it

9/3/98

CLASSIFIED BY: 5668-SUDride

REASON: 1.5 (C, d)

DECLASSIFY ON: X 0(6

(JFK

(S)

SUBJECT:

(MOISES ASIS CORDOVA, ET AL: FCI-CUBA; 00: MIAMI.

THIS COMMUNICATION IS CRASSIFIED "SECRET" -IN IPS

ENTIRETY.

[PI 6/30/93, EXPIRED 10/27/93, NO INVESTIGATION CONDUCTED](S)

oa+-977-750-8019

Pete

сои 188)

sidered

•SEARCHED

SERIALIZED.

NOW

INDEXEI

DO FILED

TORA

DocId: 32318664

Page 2

SECRET

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO DE FBIMM 0037 SECRET

AFTER 10/27/93.J(5)

REBUTEL TO RECEIVING OFFICE? (52

10/16/93; MIAMI AIRTEL/LHM

7/6/92 CAPTIONED/ "BLANKET STOP,"

COPIES TO LA, NY, SF, TP,

WMFO: MMTEL 7/7/93 CAPTIONED "MOISES ASIS CORDOVA, "' COPIES IO

LA, NY, SF, TP, AND WMFO.

LATE 1991, AN ASSOCIATE OF SUBJECT APPROACHED PRIVATE

MYTH (CUBAN DEFECTOR) AND EARLY 1992, ANOTHER ASSOCIATE

APPROACHED THE FBI RECOMMENDING SUBJECT AS ON-ISLAND SOURCE IN

CUBA. THE OVERTURE WAS TO USE SUBJECT AS A CONDUIT TO A GROUP

OF RETIRED, DISSIDENT INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS IN CUBA, HEADED BY

"MARTIN," A CLOSE, PERSONAL FRIEND OF SUBJECT. OSTENSIBLY,

"MARTINY

WAS SEEKING CONTACT WITH AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE AND •

SUBJECT WAS PROPOSED AS THE CONDUIT. TO ENHANCE (OR LURE) THE

FBI'S INTEREST IN SUBJECT, IT WAS CLAIMED THAT SUBJECT HAS

PH.D. IN EXPERIMENTAL HYPNOSIS AND THAI CIRCA 1985, SUBJECT

PARTICIPATED IN SPECIAL PROJECT UNDERTAKEN BY CUBAN

INTELLIGENCE TO APPLY PARAPSYCHOLOGY AND HYPNOSIS TO TRAIN

CUBAN AGENTS TO BE DISPATCHED ABROAD. THE PROJECT WAS HEADED

BY "MARTIN." THE PROPOSAL WAS SUSPECT AND FBI MIAMI CHOSE

NOT TO CONTACT SUBJECT IN FEB 92(5)

SECRET

DocId: 32318664 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE DE FBIMM 0037

s..

C RE T

LEADER OF THE JEWISH COMMUNITY IN HAVANA, WAS WAITING FOR

FINAL APPROVAL FROM CUBAN AND SPANISH AUTHORITIES TO EMIGRATE

TO SPAIN. FOUR DAYS LATER, THE SAME ASSOCIATE AGAIN CONTACTED

FBI MIAMI CLAIMING THAT SUBJECT HAD REQUESTED THAT FBI MIAMI

IMMEDIATELY SPONSOR SUBJECT'S ENTRY INTO THE U.S. UPON HIS

ARRIVAL IN SPAIN. AGAIN, THE CIRCUMSTANCES WERE SUSPECT AND

FBI MIAMI CHOSE NOT TO TAKE ANY ACTION TO ASSIST OR CONTACT

SUBJECT:

S)

THIS LATEST DEVELOPMENT (THREE YEAR STUDENT VISA IN THE

UNITED STATES) IS MOST UNUSUAL. GENERALLY, ONCE A CUBAN

NATIONAL APPLIES TO EMIGRATE FROM CUBA (TO SPAIN AS NOTED

ABOVE), HE LOSES HIS GOVERNMENT JOB AND IS OSTRACIZED. (5)

_FBI MIAMI REMAINS OF THE OPINION THAT. SUBJECT HAS A

HIDDEN AGENDA TO PROTECT HIMSELF; "MARTIN" AND OTHER RETIRED

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS IN CUBA: AND/OR THE CUBAN

INTELLIGENCE SERVICE ITSELF FROM NEFARIOUS ACTIVITIES

COMMITTED UNDER FIDEL CASTRO THAT MAY SURFACE IN A POST-CASTRO

CUBA. IN OTHER WORDS, SUBJECT MAY BE SEEKING TO SAVE HIS SKIN

AND OTHERS IN A POST-CASTRO CUBA. HE MAY DO THIS BY

ESTABLISHING CONTACI WITH THE BE AND PROVIDING THE FEE MITH (S)

SECREN

DocId: 32318661 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotef.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR DE FBIMM 0037 S CRET

COME INFORMATION OF VALUE BUT NOT WHAT HE REALLY KNOWS. (5)

SUBJECT'S ASSOCIATE IN MIAMI MADE IT A POINT TO ADVISE FBI

MIAMI THAT "MARTIN" WAS OBSESSED WITH THE KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION. THIS MAY BE A TOPIC OF INFORMATION SURFACED BY

SUBJECT IF AND WHEN CONTACTED BY THE FBI, I.E. THAT "MARTIN"

HANDLED OR HAD DIRECT ACCESS TO THE CUBAN INTELLIGENCE

INVESTIGATION OF LEE HARVEY OSWALD IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE

ASSASSINATION OF KENNEDY. THIS TOPIC WOULD BE A HIGH PRIORITY

ITEM FOR AMERICAN INTELLIGENCE IN A POST-CASTRO CUBA AND CUBAN

INTELLIGENCE AND "MARTIN" PROBABLY ANTICIPATE THIS. CONSIDER

THE POSSIBILITY THAT CUBAN INTELLIGENCE AND/OR "MARTIN" MAY

WANT TO HEAD OFF ANY SUSPICION OF CUBAN COMPLICITY IN THE

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION BY PLANTING INFORMATION NOW. SUBJECT

WOULD IN EFFECT PLAY THE ROLE OF THE SOVIET KGB GENERAL WHO

TOLD THE WORLD THAT THE KGB HAD NO INTEREST IN OSWALD WHEN HE

WAS RESIDING IN THE SOVIET UNION. lu'

IF TIME PERMITS, MIAMI WOULD RECOMMEND THAT SUBJECT'S

VISA BE PROTESTED ON BASIS OF INFORMATION REPORTED IN

REFERENCED MIAMI AIRTEL, LHM, AND TELETYPE.

MIAMI WILI CLOSE ITS CASE ON SUBJECT AND FORWARD COPIES/

OF PERTINENT SERIALS VIA AIRTEL TO PHILADELPHIA'E

DooId: 32318664

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE FIVE DE FBIMM 0037 S

RET

e BY A SI DECE. OADR

BT

#0037

'":

NNNN

SECRET

?..

DocId: 32318664

Page 6

---

