# docid-32129399

## Page 1

8/28/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Case#:WH 53932 Date:

18-14-2017

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10236

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3581

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : BRANIGAN,

W. A.

TO : SULLIVAN,

w. C.

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

: 04/17/1964

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : NEWSPAPER, THE COUNCILOR, LAW ENFORCEMENT,

COORDINATION OF EFFORTS, JR, ASSOC WITH LHO

- CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:06/18/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK%

National Archives and Records Administration

1/2

---

## Page 2

FROM

SUBJECT :

OPTIONAL FORMINIO. 10

MAX. 1962 EDITION

REG. NO. 27

- UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

-

Belmont

Mohr

-

DeLoach

-

Rosen

Malley

-

Sullivan

1 - Branigan

W. C. Sullivan WCS

AEL INFORMATION CONZAINERA

W. A. Brantgan

LASSIFIED

DAN 510-95

BY9803 RDP Ispenthar

JFK

Toison

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Calahan

irad

Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sulli

rotte

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

IS -R - CUBA

La

Reference is made to an

article on the investigation

the assassination of President Kennedy in the 3-15-64 issue of

"The Councilor" (received 4-13-64) which identifies itself as

having been published by the Citizens: Council of Louisiana Inc,

for Americans Everywhere.

The article with a date line of New Orleans claims that

"The Councilor" was in New Orleans to make a fresh search into the

assassination matter at the request of the Dallas District Attorney'st

Office.

In addition, the article claims that the Dallas District

Attorney's Office enlisted "The Councilor" to check reports that

"Oswald and Rubenstein" (apparently. Jack Ruby, convicted killer

Of

Oswald) were connected in employment matters.

The article claims that in interviewing personnel difectors?!

and employment agency officials, "The Councilor" learned that agents

from different Government bureaus have taken key documents concerningt

Oswald and have not coordinated their investigative efforts:

Councilor' claims that the biggest feud in this connection exists

between "Douglas Dillon's Treasury agents and Bobby Kennedy's FBI."

The article also states that more people "are working to cover up

the facts than are

trying sincerely to unmask the assassination

plot."

Los

TEXAS

Ned Touchstone, editor. of ""The Councilor," has been

identified by a confidential informant NO 1223-R) as a member:of

UNRECORDED

the Original Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.

The source

advised

December, 1963,

that Touchstone claimed that the Klan had

in

documented proof that President Johnson was formerly a member

of the Klan in Texas during the early days of his political care

105-82555

JMS: mhw

(1)

mhin

REG. 41

COPY SENTINO MR. SIQLSON

105-82.

• MAY 5: 1964

80

7 9 MAY 8

1964

53932

DooId: 32129399

Page 2

---

