# docid-32301166

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10278-10001

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2914-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/04/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

GM, ASSOC, FINANCES, RACK AND SUBV, SMO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301166

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATÉ: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL FUMERU OF INVESTIOAIUA

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT4

1961

TELETYPE

"alson

Me. Balmont

Mr. Mohi

Mr,

Callahan

Mr. Conrad

ATM.

neboach

Mr.

van

Mr.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

10-4-61

5-58 PM EDST DLH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

192-2914

92-2918

FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH

92-236

92-228

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, AKA, AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, ARO ON

OCT. FOUR, INSTANT, PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT HE

WAS VISITED BY PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC THE PREVIOUS EVENING.

PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC ATTEMPTED TO MAKE A SUBSTANTIAL LOAN

AND PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C SUGGESTED HE TRY TO MAKE THE LOAN

FROM SAM MANNARINO. PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC STATED SAM

MANNARINO WAS IN VERY BAD FINANCIAL CONDITION. PG SIX ONE

FIVE DASH C INDICATED DISBELIEF AND PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH

PC SAID GABRIEL MANNARINO HAD RECENTLY SHUT OFF SAM

MANNARINO FROM HIS SPLIT OF THE PROCEEDS OF GAMBLING AND

OTHER ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C THEN .

SUGGESTED PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC TRY TO BORROW FROM GABRIEL

MANNARINO AND THE LATTER SAID HE WOULD DO SO WITHIN THE

COMING WEEK EVEN THOUGH HE KNOWS HE WILL HAVE TO GIVE UP

PERCENTAGE OF HIS CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS TO GET THE MONEY•

END PAGE ONE

39

REG

92139145222

• OCT. 5 1961

305

OCT 11 1961

OCT 5 1968

RUm

UNGE

DED COPY, FILED IN

FILED 1N92-2918-

DocId: 32301166 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14÷2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Mr. Tolson

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr. Belraont

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Mohr

10/41

OCT4 1961

Mr. Call-har

Mr. Corrad

TELETYPE

Mr. DeLo:ch

Mr. Evang

Nir. Mone

Mi. Zosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

URGENT

10-4-61

: 5-58 PM EDST

DLH

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy.

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 92-2914

92-2918

FROM SAG, PITTSBURGH 92-236

92-228

GABRIEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR•, SAMUEL MANNARINO, AKA, AR

ON

OCT. FOUR, INSTANT, PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH C ADVISED THAT HE

WAS VISITED BY PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC THE PREVIOUS EVENING.

PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC ATTEMPTED TO MAKE A SUBSTANTIAL LOAN

AND PC SIX ONE FIVE DASH C SUGGESTED HE TRY TO MAKE THE LOAN

FROM SAM MANNARINO. PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC STATED SAM

MANNARINO WAS IN VERY BAD FINANCIAL CONDITION • PG SIX ONE

FIVE DASH C INDICATED DISBELIEF AND PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH

PC SAID GABRIEL MANNARINO HAD RECENTLY SHUT OFF SAM

MANNARINO FROM HIS SPLIT OF THE PROCEEDS OF GAMBLING AND

OTHER ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. PG SIX ONE FIVE DASH. C THEN

SUGGESTED PG SIX FOUR ONE DASH PC TRY

TO BORROW FROM GABRIEL

MANNARINO AND THE LATTER SAID HE WOULD DO SO WITHIN THE

COMING WEEK EVEN THOUGH HE KNOWS HE WILL HAVE TO GIVE UP A

PERCENTAGE OF HIS CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS TO GET THE MONEY.

END PAGE ONE

92-2914-222

DocId: 32301166 Page 3

---

