# docid-32296688

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10217-10464

HQ

105-229101-1ST NR 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

'TO :

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/04/1973

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased NT 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

19.1

HH 54464 DocId: 32296688

3

Page 1

---

## Page 2

50:96 Ten. 553:64)

FBI

Date:

1/4/73

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO s

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-188954)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI

SUBJECT&

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

IS - CUBA

(00% MIAMI)

Miami File 105-16598 (P)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

IS - CUBA

(008. MIAMI)

Miami File 105-20070 (P)

Re Miami letters to Bureau dated 3/15/72,

and 11/24/72.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 10 copies of

the LHM dated and captioned as above. Copies are also

being furnished New York.

MM. T-1 is MM 974-S

MM T-2

18 MM 1550-KS

MM T-3 is MM 1337-S

Bureau (Encs. 10) (RM)

(2 - 105-188954) (ASI)

(2 - 105-

J (JCR)

(1 - 174-3693) (CUBOM)

2 - New York (Encs. 2) (RM)

(1 - 105-99207) (ASI)

(1 - 174-1803) (CUBOM)

3 - Miami

(1- 105-16598)

17105-200701

59J 3 1 81973658) (CUBOM)

Approved: GED: emg

(10)

Fate Special Arent In Chaus

ECIOSURE

165-229101

HOT RECORDED

160 JAN 1 5 1973

CARSON COPT

beds 415-9415772

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Hence IS UNCLASSITIED

DATE b

Sent

_ M

Per

NW 54464 DooId: 32296688

Page 2

105-18-95451

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer l

Vile No.

105-16598

105-20070

UChED STATES DEPARTMENT ORLESTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

January 4, 1973

RES

ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

(INDEPENDENT LABOR ACTION)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY BOARD)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Previous investigation has reflected that the

Accion Sindical Independienta (ASI) is the labor group

of the junta Cubana Revolucionaria (JCR) • The ASI is

headquartered in Miam and the JCR in New York City.

CONRADO RODRIGUEZ SANCHEZ, a Cuban exile and former labor

leader in Cuba, now residing in Miami, represents both of these

organizations in Miami. The membership is composed of

Cuban exiles residing in Miami and the New York area.

Previous investigation also disclosed that in

october, 1971, RODRIGUEZ allegedly had plans

to blow

up diplomatic establishments of countries which maintained

relatiors with Cuba and he was accumulating the explosives

for that purpose. These plans, however, never matérialized.

on April 10, 1972, MM I-l, who is well acquainted

with many Cuban axiles in the Miami area, reported that

RODRIGUEZ was looking for some C-4 plastic explosives during

the preceding week or 10 days.

on May 26, 1972, MM T-I advised that RODRIGUEZ

not with leaders of several other groups saveral days

previously to discuss the possibility of organizing some

sort of anti-CASTRO sabotage program to be carried out

outside the United States. Among those attending this

meeting were MIGUEL and JUANA ISA, publishers of a

small newspaper called "Joven Cuba", JESUS CONZALEZ CARTAS

of the organization Joven Cuba; MIGUEL SAN PEDRO of the

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINES UNCLASSIEIEO

DATE 6/21/85

165-229101-

sps ma me 4-15-941

JFK

ENCLOSURE

NW 54464 DooId: 32296688 Page 3

---

## Page 4

RES ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

"If the U. S. abandons Cuba and betrays the

principles of anti-Communism, the Veterans of Fort Jackson

would react with violence.

"RODRIGUEZ stated that his group has no quarrels

with other anti-Commnist groups, only with FIDEL CASTRO

and his followers. If the groups fail to work with the

Comite Ejecutivo Libertador, one should ask TOMAS CRUZ

for the answers

" ISRAEL PINO stated that the Cubans who become

involved in local politics are no longer exiles, but

economic innigrants.. They are Americans, not Cubans."

(All of the organizations mentioned above are anti..

CASTRO Cuban exile groups).

On December 8, 1972, MM T-3, Who 1s acquainted

with soms members of the ASI advised that CONRADO

RODRIGUEZ disclosed that he had attended a meeting

held in New York City on November 24 and 25, 1972 with

the delegates of the ASI and JCR. At that time, there

was a discussion concerning action, which would

be taken

by these two organization in the event the United States

should sign any kind of a peaceful coexistence agreement

RODRIGUEZ disclosed that it

was agreed that these organizations would initiate

terrorist activities inside the United States. He pointed

out that the principal targets would be ships belonging to

countries that would trade with Cuba. Other targets

would be diplomatic establishments of countries that

maintain relation with CASTRO. He said that these

organizations would avoid attacks against American ships

- 3 =

HH

54464 DooId: 32296688

Page 4

---

## Page 5

RE: ACCION SINDICAL INDEPENDIENTE (ASI)

JUNTA CUBANA REVOLUCIONARIA (JCR)

or establishments in order to avoid prosecution by

United States security agencies. He commented that

his organization has men in New York, New Jersey, Miami

and Washington, D. C., as well as in

California,. who

can be used in these terrorist activities. He claimed

that complete preparations have been made and these

men are only awaiting orders to begin this campaign.

MM T-3 stated that RODRIGUEZ definitely

indicated that this campaign of terror would only

take place in the event the United States should sign

a peaceful coexistence agreement with the CASTRO

Government•

On December 20, 1972, MM T-3 advised that he

had received no additional inforntdon reflecting that

RODRIGUEZ has taken any steps to carry out his plans.

MM T-3 recalled, however, that in about December, 1971.

RoDRIGUEZ disclosed that he had three "lapiceros",

( an M-l time delayed device used to detonate a bomb),

and that he needed some C-4. RODRIGUEZ then added that

he already had some dynamite and a clock.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are

not to be distributed outside your agency.

- 4$

NW 54464 DooId: 32296688

Page 5

---

