# docid-32989740

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290

SECTION 1

Serial Scope:

1145

1147,1148

1157

1161

THRU 1164

1167

1169

1173

1/82

1189

THRL 1177

THRU

1187

1191,1192

1195,11958,1196

• 1199

1201

DO NOT

DESTROY

FOIPA#-

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

• Case#:NU 55032 Date: 11-17-2017

HH

55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 1

---

## Page 2

- Mr. Long - Enc.

1-

Mr. Foster - Enc.

1

- Mr. Mintz - Enc.

2

- Mr. Coulson - Enc.

1 - Mr. Heller - Enc.

August 10, 1978

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: lix. Robert Keuch

Director, FBI

( HOUSE SELECT COMITTEE OJI ASSASSIrATIOUS

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this memorandun advises that Special Agent

Thonas

Il. Weaver of the Jefferson City, Missouri,

Resident Agency,

Kansas City Division was inter-

viewed on July 28, 1978. A menorandun setting forth

lix. Weaver's account of this interview is enclosed

for your inforration.

Enclosure

(121

2458§2

J28116

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dap. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs._

Crim. Inv. _

1: •

Co 11318

Laboratory -

Legal Coun.

Plon. & Insp..

Rec. Mgnt.

Training

Fat not Director by

Tech. Servs..

Brigiel signed Tack

elephone Rm.

irector's Sec'y

MAIL ROOM

55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 2

REg: + 62-117270-1145

1 - Personnel file - Thomas H. Weaver - Enclosure

APPROVED:

Director

ssoc. Dir. y

Jep. AD Adit

Adm. Serv._

Crim. Inv..

ent.

tell. —

Laboratory

Legal Coun. ):

Plan, & Inso.

Rec Mgnt.

Tech. Servs."

Training

Public Affs. Off

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 3

Cis

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Dircetor, FBI

September 5, 1978

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

requested certain information from files of FBI Headquarters.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo

randum in response to referenced letter. It is requested that

you furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

62-117290

NOTE: HSCA request of 7/26/78 concerned a racial matters

conference held at FBI Headquarters 2/29/68-3/1/68 and

3/4/68-3/5/68 involving Agents from approximately 45 field

divisions.

Counterintelligence activity against King was

one topic discussed.

/;

3 - ENCLOSURE

Assoc. Dir.

MAILED 7

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

• SEP

5 1978

Crim: Inv..

Ident. -

Intell. _

FBI

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Afts. Off. _

Telephone Rm. _*

1978

Director's Sec'y _

MAIL ROOM L

# HiTB/D9/6JF/DTEL

HH 55032 Do0Id:32989740

Page

4-137

REC-34

A"T

BE'

L.:

2Et |

1.:

1147

SEP 6 1978

245.83₴

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 4

..

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

Septenber 5, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COLTITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (ASCA)

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Dircetor,

Esca, dated duly 20, 1910, which, in connection with the

ASCA's investiration Into the assassination of Hartin Luther

King, dr, requested infornation concerning a racial matters

conference held at IBI Headquarters (BBIHO) in carly 1960.

This letter is to confirn that naterial in response

to referenced ISCA letter has been processed and is available

for ESCA access at FBIHQ. Where Information is not provided,

It Is either not retrievable or Is not being furnished pursuant

to the Memorandum of Understanding.

62-117290

pfm (6)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO THE ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch,

dated September 5, 1978, captioned as above.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv.

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp..

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Public Affs. Off. _

HTH 55032

ENCLOSE

245852...

-..5|28)86

6219:%.

MAIL ROOM D

DocId: 32989740

Page 4

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 5

| LOUIS STOKEN, ОНЮ, CHAIRM

LTER NC

SAMUEL L.

- MALTENNI

мтяют. D.f.

-ATHWART B, MAC KINNET, DONN.

TVONNE WRATHDALE, DURXI, CALIF.

CHARLIS THONI, NIUR.

OHRISTAPHIR I, DOCO, CONN.

MAROLO R, SAWYER, MICH.

HAHOLD I, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD I. FITHIAN, IND.

+ (202) 225-182

Rec: C.A.

Rac 5/2/18

Select Committee on Assassinations

.ã. House of Biepresentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEXE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

July 26, 1978

Aldhizer

ат 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

U.S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: -Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of DI. Martin

Luther King, JI., It is requested that the Federal Bureau of

Investigation assist this Committee by providing us with

certain material.

The attached memorandum refers to a racial conference

which was held at FBI Headquarters in early 1968. Counter-

intelligence proposals directed at Martin Luther King were

apparently disucssed at that conference.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations reguests

that we be provided with all documents in existence per-

taining to such conference and any action taken as a result

Your response should also include any documents

relating to the scheduling of the conference.

Your earliest attention to this matter would be greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

М. Ловах ВСавку

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : kmy

Enclosures: as

ENGLOSURGI

61:1: 11-11454

WH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 5

---

## Page 6

it in

ти вери сіль,

Hate Greups

3/27/68

SAG JACKSON (257-9097)

SECIION CHILE GECREE C. MOORE

RACIAL INTELLIGENCE, S05

WASHIIGION SPRING FROJECI

RH

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLACCINIED

BE 5 PM, 3/32/58, GEORGE C. MOORE, Section Chief,

Recial Intelligence, Division 5, SOS, advised ASAC ELiER E.

LINBERG and SUPELTISOI JAMES D, LYGRAM AS FOLIONS:

He advised that the followig proposal was sent to

•the DireCtOr:

The racial conference at the SCG discussed the

Washington Spring Project headed by MARTIN LUTHER KINK end

reconcended that the facts about the Project be brought to

the attention of possible participants

through a rubor caupaign,

He would use out informants, without their knowledge, to spread

the story about lack of funds and organization.

Fears Df •

ecosonic reprisal and personal safety should dissuade potential

participants. He would point out also that the Project is

Strictly fOI MARTIN LUTHER KING's benefit wnich is actually

the case. He thinks he can regain lost prestige by tais

denonstration. Sone suggested runors sould consist of:

The participants would be told that their names

sould be taxen In washington and welfare checks fron the

Governsent discontinued,

Possible threats of violence and boully hans to the

!participants would be spread, Also information showing that

the stashlugton Negro Community Is Incensed and Fiious with

respect to this narch on Washington by outzide Negroes.

The above are a few of the type of tumors that can be

rised and you should tie in any rumor of this nature to your local

problem, Also think of other counterintelligence rethods and

secure telephorte approval fron the bureau prior to, utilization.

FiEV

2-157-9097.

62-117218

SHEDED

+27801 99579499941

---

## Page 7

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24=77)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

Airtel

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

I Priority

• Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

JEFTO

I CLEAR

Date

9/5/78

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

SAC, MEMPHIS (66-2197) (P)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Re Bureau teletype to Memphis dated 8/30/78.

Enclosed under separate cover to the Bureau are

3 items containing Xerox copies of serials from Memphis

files 157-109 and 157-1022 regarding the Student Non-Violent

Coordinating Committee (SNCC).

The enclosed items represent retrievable information

maintained by the Memphis Office

regarding SNCC for the

period 1/1/68 - 5/31/68.

REC34 62-117290-1148

886-737

* - BureaL ENCLOSURE

(1 - Package) (Encs. 3)

1 - Memphis

BFJ :mrp

2 SEP 7 1978

retried

4,

DOC. E43. REV.

CONFIDENTIAL AND SECRET

INFORMATION ATTACHED

Just

FREKKE

"T.T. I'm

Approved o

7o/sy

55032

DocId: 32989740

Transmitted

(Number)

Page -7

(Time)

Per

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 8

Aroma

P 2212552

ÀNG: 78

FM LONDON (88-228)

fr..

TO DIRECT CR

1662-117290)

BT

13U62

53-21

RECEIVED

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

COMHUNICATIONS SECTION

F

HO

WCLAS EFT O

Tor

Put"

nif.

Telor ha,

7.

Director's doc'y

MURK IN.

RE LONDON AIRTEL TO DIRECIOR DATED 6/28/78, AND COMMUNICATIUNS

IN BUREAU FILE 62 - 11729D, RE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

(HSCA).

AS FBIHQ IS AWARE HSCA STAFF MEMBERS EDWARD M. EVANS, PROF.

HARLES ROGOVIN AND ROBIN L INDLEY WERE RECENTLY IN LONDON FOR TWO

WEEK PERIOD CONDUCING INTERVIEWS IN MURKIN CASE:

RELONA IRTEL FURNISHED RESULTS OF INTERVIEW WITH ALEXANDER EIST,

CAMBRIDGE SHIRE, ENGLAND. WHEN STAFF MEMBERS IN ENGLAND THEY ALSO

INTERVIEWED EIST.

REC-76 137 67 117291-7

1157-

ON 8/21/78, EIST APPEARED AT AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON SEEKING

ADVICE AS TO METHOD OF BRINGING SLANDER SUII AGAINST MARK LANE,

COUNSEL FOR RAY. EUROPEAN AND BRITISH NEWSPAPERS HAVE GIVEN

PAGE COVERAGE TO INFORMAI ION FURNISHED BY LIST TO USCA ANDALE SEP

ALLEGATIONS OF LANE THAT EIST HAD BEEN IMPLICATED IN CORRUPTIU AN

JEWEL ROBBERIES WHEN HE WAS OFFICER WITH

JEK Act 6 (4)

MILE ERICH

ADVISED

confinis

2pm 8/22/18

AT.I. TORN TECT CONTATIED

1=4-78

ITS

SECTIO

space

caution

GAiT

HH

Tal 995389740

Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE TWO

EI ST

ADVISED

HE HAS BEEN BESEIGED BY CBS, BBC AND BRITISH NEWSPAPERS

SINCÊ THE ALLEGATIONS APPEARED.

EIST ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT WHETHER HE WILL BE CALLED BEFORE

COMMITTEE DURING HEARINGS AND IF HE WOULD HAVE COUNSEL AVAILABLE

TO COUNTER ANY CHARACTER ALLEGATIONS MADE AGAINSI HIM.

EIST

SUGGESTS HAVING HIGHT RANKING

PRESENT

TO COUNTER ALLEGATIONS. ADD IT IONALLY EIST ADVISED HE HAS BEEN IN

CONTACT WITH A FORMER LONDON " DAILY MAIL" CRIME REPORTER, OWEN

SUMMERS, WHO RECALLS PRIOR CONVERSATIONS WITH EIST DURING TIME

EIST WAS INVOLVED IN RAY INVESTIGAT IUN. EIST REQUESTED HIS CONCERN

BE RELAYED TO MR. EDWARD M. EVANS, HSCA.

IN ADDITION, AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, IN RECEIPT OF BILL FOR

$20D. DD U. S. DATED 8/16/78, FROM HARRY COUNSELL AND CU., COURT

REPORTERS, 61 CAREY STREET, LONDON, FOR STENOGRAPHIC FEE INCURRED

BY STAFF MEMBERS, HSCA.

LEGAL LIAISON AND

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS UNIT, LEGAL AFFAIRS DIVISION, REQUESTED IO

CONTACT EVANS AND ADVISE OF EIST'S CONCERNS AND INFORM EVANS UF

OUT STANDING CHARGE S.

NN 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 9

---

## Page 10

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRI

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL

IVINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWARIOACKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

•CHARLES THONE, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

Rea, Giu

9-12-78

Select Committee on Assassinations

r.. House of Representatites

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 8, 1978

7B7

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Iuther King, JI. the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery Identification Division Records

and all BUFILE material on:

a) Charles Parris, dob 3/07/31

FBI Number 46-45-6A

b) Charles Parris, dob 5/07/48

Jefferson County Louisiana Police Department #26333

2) Prepare for access all available references and files,

BUFILE and Field Office, on a St. Louis Organization

named the Veiled Prophet.

3) Make delivery (on a loan basis) the original Piedmont

Laundry Slip which is believed to be in the possession

of the Atlanta FER 87610• (2-11)215 - 116)

4)

Make access available

to any rosters

of agents for the

St. Louis Field Office for the years

1967, 19687

and 1974.

As time is of the utmost importance your promptiattention

to this matter is greatly appreciated.

Yours very, truly,

62-119220

12. Robet Blaby

Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghh

C :

Ron Heller

Bureau of Investigation

Page

---

## Page 11

FD-

Rev÷7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

[Teletype

• Facsimile

• Airtel

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

• Routine

AIRTEL

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

I CONFIDENTIAL

ДЕЕТО

I CLEAR

Date

8/11/78

F.

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

LEGAT, LONDON (62-604) (RUC)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

-ASSASSINATIONS' (HSCA)

Enclosed herewith are four copies

Getter

of an LHN

dated 8/11/78, prepared by RICHARD S. CLARK, Legal Attache,

London, England.

It is noted that the visitors, Professor

CHARLES H. ROGOVIN, Special Counsel, EDWARD M. EVANS, Chief

Investigator and ROBIN D. LINDLEY,

Staff Counsel, on several

occasions expressed sincere appreciation for the cooperation,

afforded them by the American Embassy and British authorities.

Basically, they accomplished their interviews througek Act 6(4)

Jor independently.

It is noted that they inter-

viewed ALEC ElST and previously had requested background intor-

mation on this interview from Legat personnel.

EVANS returned the weekend of 8/5/78 to the

United States

and ROGOVIN and LINDLEY had reservations to return

on 8/12/78.

ENGLOSURE

. *

Bureau (4 encls)"i

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

- London

RSC: rn

(4)

FX-136

-:1'1

/

1162

REC-70L

liCE

%1

23 AUG 22 1978

ALL INERATION CONTAINED

123150156 Потирікої

Approved:

16106E BoRia: 19780710

Page 11

Transmitted

(Number)

(Time)

Per

GPO: 1977 0 - 225-539

---

## Page 12

UNITED STATES DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D.G. 20535

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

August 11, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

On the morning of July 31, 1978, representative:

of the HSCA questioned Legal Attache RICHARD S. CLARK, London,

England, concerning his knowledge of the investigation con-

cerning

JAMES EARL RAY in Mexico.C

Questions were in general terms as to the

nature of our work in this matter in Mexico.

Legat CLARK

explained that he was

Assistant Legal Attache in Mexico

at that time, and that while he undoubtedly did some work

in the investigation, he could not recall any specific

assignments or trips

without reviewing the resulting reports. &

Legat CLARK explained the police structure

in Mexico (and the United Kingdom) in general terms, and

identified some of the personalities who might have been

involved in the investigation. c

''"=

the color meeting belti

into momenti

the tate to lorded to

it ond ila coatrata are mor

5/30/84. Прувирке

-1*

HH 55032 Do0Id:32989740 Page 12

---

## Page 13

C,NG S21 232165 DZ

DE J!

00 13363 6Z • AUG 73

FI JACKSO. (52-544)

1 8 AUG 78. 16 48,2

RECENED

FEDERAL BUREAU *

OF INVESTIGATION

COMHUNICATIOSS SECTION

IO DIRECTOR (62-117298) IAMEDIATE

ATTENTION CONGRESSIO AL INQUIRY UNII, RECORDS MANAGEMENT

DIVISION

MEMPHIS IMMEDIATE

BT

UNCLAS

HOUSE SELECI COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (MSCA).

RE JACKSON TELEPHONE CALL TO FEI HQ, AUGUST 18, 1973.

01 AUGUST 18, 1978, 1:15 A•ilo, iR. WILLIAM V. GLADEN,

ROUTE 1, POSI OFFICI BOK 205H3, OCLAN SPRINGS, MISSISSIPPI,

TELEPHONE NUMBER 875-3513, TELEPHONICALLY CONTACIED

THE JACKSON FBI OFFICE AND FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING

INFORUAII0,1:

Oi AUGUST 17, 1975, 11:45 Poio, GLADEN WAS TELEPHONICALLY

EMPLOYSE OF ELEDE, NHO REQUESTED IO MAGY REO 524E,

Assoc. Dir,

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD'Inv.

'Asst, Dir.:

Adm. serv.

Crim.Inv.

ident.-

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun."

Plan. & Insp.

Rec, Mgnt. di

Tech. ServsJ

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

8988

pM.

74245

1162X

6 SEP 2°8 1978

ALL INECTMATICH CONTAINED

FIED

620CT.4xa 19780140 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE TWO JN 52-544 UNCLAS

AID WIFE. GLADEN AD WIFE MET WILSON AT A CARD AND GIFT

SHOP OWNED BY GLADEN IN OCEAN SPHINGS, MISSISSIPPI.

WILSON ADVISED HR. AD MRS. GLADEN ABOUT HOW HE

KILLED MARTIN LUTHER KING. FOR AN HOUR WILSON PROVIDED

DETAILS CONCERNING THE PLAN TO KILL KING.

GLADEN ADVISED THAT HE RENTED PART OF HIS SHOP TO

WILSON IN JULY, 1978, IO OPERATE A WAICH REPAIR SERVICE.

WILSON TOLD THE GLADENS HE WAS SORRY FOR THE EKPENSES

HE CAUSED THEM IN SETTING UP HIS WAICH REPAIR BUSINESS

BUT HE HAD TO GET THIS OFF OF HIS CHEST. HE STATED

THAT THE SHERIFF FROM SEMPHIS, TENESSEE, WAS THE ONLY

PERSON HE WOULD SURRENDER TO AND THAI HEMPHIS,

TENNESSLE, SHERIFF WAS TO MEET HIM AT THE HOLIDAY INI,

BILOXI, MISSISSIPPI, MORNING OF AUGUSI 18, 1978.

GLADEN ADVISED THAT WILSON IS A VERY INTELLIGENT

MAN AND ALTHOUGH HE WAS DRINKING AT THE IINE THE MEETING

TOOK PLACE, HE THINKS WILSON IS SERIOUS ABOUT IME MURDER

OF KING.

LHM FOLLOWS.

BASED ON DESCRIPTIVE DATA AVAILABLE, THE NANE BILL

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 14

---

## Page 15

is ones

PAGE IHIEE JW 62-544 UNCLAS

WILSON NOT IDENTIFIABLE THROUGH JACKSON OFFICE INDICES.

BI

HH 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 15

---

## Page 16

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

8/48/78

. Attached teletype fresh SAC, Jackson advised of infore, a-

tier received telephonically from a Mr. William V. Gladen, Ocean

Moorings messest we ceported that an acquaintance, Bill Wilson,

had informed him on 8/17/78 that he had killed Martin Luther King.

Gladen advised that Wilson was drinking at the time he furnished

this information, however, he believes Wilson is a very intelligent

person and thinks he is serious about the murder of King.

wM.

SAC, Memphis, at approximately 10 am, today, advised that

he had been telephonically contacted by Shelby County Sheriff Barksdale,

who advised that he had received two telephone calls from a Burgess

Audie Wilson who claimed that he had been "the trigger man" in the

assassination of Dr. King, that his daughter had driven the white

mustang and that he would only surrender to Sherit Barksdale on

Sunday, 8/20/78, at 9:30 am, at the Holiday Inn in Biloxi, MIssissipp.

A subsequent call from SAC, Memphis at 1l:35 am this date advised

that Sheriff Barksdale had received additional instructions to the effect

that Wilson was expecting his arrival in Gulfport, Mississippi, on this

Idate and would meet him at the Holiday Inn at Gulfport.

Contact has beon maintained with AG Robert Keuch who requested

that this information be provided to the House Select Committee on

Assassinations immediately. This was done. Mr. Keuch further

requested that any media inquiries receivéd by any offices of the FBI

be referred to the Department of Justice. Since it was anticipated that

Sheriff Barksdale might inquire as to FBI and USDJ desires in this

matter, AAG Keuch conferred with DeputyAAG Turner, Civil Rights

DIViSion, USDJ. Subsequent to the first advisement given Mr. Keuch

in this matter, his office received a telephone call from Sheriff

Barksdale. Mr. Keuch advised that it was the determination of the

Justice Department that Sheriff Barksdale should be contacted by

the FBI and requested, if he so desires, to meet with Wilson and request

Wilson to provide a statement to the FBI or if Wilson was not willing to

do this, to request Wilson to provide a statement to Sheriff Barksdale.

' Mr. Keuch also requested that the FBI, in the meantime, seek to identify

the daughter and a father-in-law of Wilson who resides in Memphis.

l'ennessee, in the event that these persons needed to be contacted in

the future.

Mr. Keuch advised that he would personally contact the SAC,

Memphis Division, and ask him to relay these requests to Sheriff

Barksdale since Sheriff Barksdale had tried to contact Mr. Keuch.

personally. Subsequently, SAC Trimbach telephonically advised FBIHQ

of the request of Mr. Keuch's call and confirmed Mr. Keuch's request.

Based upon information furnished, a search of Bureau indices

discloses no information identifiable with Burgess Audie Wilson, however,

SAC, Memphis advised that information received from Sheriff Barksdale

| indicates that Wilson is known under FBI #879 421 E, having last been

arrested 3/1/76, on a theft charge. The ident record is being located

and Memphis will sutel.

DJC:mjl

MH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 16

5/28\84

144

---

## Page 17

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

emorandum

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

: Mr.

Bassett

TO

FROM

: D.

DATE: 8-17-78

SUBJECT:

1 - Mr. Basset

Ryan

1 - Mr.

1

Bailey

• - Mr.

Ryan

1 - Mr.

Foster

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION 1 - Mr. Buschi:

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Assoc. Dir. "

Dep. AD Adm: =

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv..

Ident..

Intell. -

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Inspe

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training.

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm. -

• Director's Sec'y -

FEI/DOJ

PURPOSE: To provide copy of opening statement by Jamei

Ray at the public hearings of the HSCA on 8-16-78.

DETAILS: On 8-16-78, after the recess of the Committee hearings

made avariabie the attached

that date

was prepared by James Earl lay and read by him during the public

hearing of 8-16-78. It is noted that wher Mr. Ray made

the statement, he made some revisions to it.

Mr. Blakey

advised that the Number 5 imprinted on the

various pages is

not significant and only an internal control number used by the

RECOMMENDATION: None. For Information.

Enclosure

ROB

RCB: Pem (6)

655/39

7 - ENCLOS

APPROVED:

Director

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD InVa

Adm. Serv. _

Crim. Inv._

Ident. -

Intell.

Laboratory

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHIDE

EX-120

REC-60

Logal Coun.

Plan, & Insp. L

Rec, Mgnt.

Tech. Servs,®

Training

Public Affs, Off.

12: 62X1

5 SEr 1 1978

POSSESTI

ALL INFORRITICN CONTAINED

FRASIN 1S CACLASSIDIED

DATE S12918K DISPNEU

1407Q105. RaYed

*Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

55032

Socia: 31979140

Page 17

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 18

8/18/78-

• Suesicquent to the above, Memphis advised

that due to the potential civil unrest (police strike)

Sherift Barksdale was unable to proceed to Gulfport,

Mississippi, and further did not feel he should leave

the city of Memphis at this time.

Contact was made with AAG Keuch who advised

that the FBI should endeavor to locate and interview

Wilson. Instructions have gone forth to this effect

Ito Memphis who will coordinate with Jackson.

You will be advised of developments.

See San Antonio airtel dated 7/12/72, attached,

re interview of Wilson in 1972 regarding thr

to Congressman Gonzalez from Texas A

Peel make

Hennel Ge nut; i in tent asian

Al TermAGINE PET THED

IW 55032 DocId: 329897405 Page 8&

Spitilure

---

## Page 19

:

:

vi a

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

UNITES STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Mr. Gladen advised that in July 1978, he had

rented Mr. Wilson part of his shop to establish a watch

repair service.

Mr. Gladen described Wilson as a white male,

He stated that Wilson is a very intelli-

gent man and although he was drinking at the time of above

meeting he thinks Wilson is serious about the murder of

King.

2*

AH 55032

DooId: 32989740

Page

19

---

## Page 20

FD-36 (Rex. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

[x] Airtel

* FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

[ Routine

:

CLASSIFICATION:

D TOP SECRET

• SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

CLEAR

Date

8/21/78

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

SAC, JACKSON (62-544)

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE.

ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

as above, Be Jerking tele Vetso Bureau, 8/18/18, captioned

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau and Memphis are

tour and two copies

States House of Representatives

For the Bureau's information, page one, paragraph

one, Line one of referenced teletype should read WILLIAM D.

GLADEN.

REC-79

EX-124

= Bureau (Bac. 12) InFO)

1. - Memphis

(Enc. 2) (Info)

1 - Jackson

JAW/njb

(4)

IL INTEREST COTTAINED

did bernin

1. 03/23|20

Approved 68457 8831978

Transmitted

55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 20

62-111270-816282

AU'S 2: 1173

(Number)

(Time)

Per

GPO: 19770-225-539

---

## Page 21

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Jackson, Mississippi

August 21, 1978

OUSED STATES HOUSE OF REASESENSANATEONS

Gladen, Koute I,

telephonically

Contacted te Jackson member Federal Bureau of Investi-

gation.

He advised that on August 17, 1978, one of his

end one den wile with hepho cella teet at it he

Thereafter, he and MrS.

Gladen met Wilson at their card and gift shop located in

Ocean Springs.

Mr. Wilson told them he had killed Martin Luther

King.

He talked for one hour concerning the details of

the plan to kill King and stated the sheriff, Memphis,

Tennessee is the only person to whom he will

surrender.

Mr. Wilson further advised Mr. and Mrs. Gladen

he is sorry for the expense he caused them in setting up his

watch repair business but he had to get this off his chest.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

I. T

MATISD

$ 553,010

55032

DocId: 32989740

62-117296-11113

Page 21

---

## Page 22

:

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. Basset#8/

FROM

D. Ryan DR

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FNDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DATE: 8-16-78

1 - Mr. Bassett

1 - Mr. Ryan

1

. - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Foster

1 - Mr. Busching

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Iny.

• Ident.

Intell. —

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off. -

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y -

PURPOSE: To provide results of research concerning

Reverend Ralph David Abernathy's statement before the HSCA's

public hearings on August 14, 1978, that, to this date, the FBI

has not interviewed

I him concerning the death of Martin Luther

King, Jr.

DETAILS: Public source material reveals that Reverend Ralph

David Abernathy made a statement at the public hearings of the

ASCA on August 14, 1978, that to this date, the fBI has not inter-

viewed him concerning the death of Martin Luther King, Jr.

Indices search regarding Abernathy was conducted

regarding main Bureau MURKIN file 44-38861 for references other

than newspaper clippings with negative results. However, a

search of logical areas of the file revealed the attached serials

of file 44-38861 setting forth interviews of Abernathy regarding

the assassination of drilking:

Son on that to ta la a 10 22 2 6l 62 X3

evening of April 4, 1960, at 10:55 p.m. at the Memphis Police

Department concerning the assassination of Martin Luther

King, Jr., that evening.

Serial 5531 concerns an interview of

Abernathy on January 30, 1969, at Atlanta, Georgia, concerning

his published allegation that

a conspiracy existed

with regard

to the assassination of Dr. King.

These are two interviews of

Abernathy regarding the assassination retrievable in ffles to

this date.

RECOMMENDATION: None. For information.

2 FEB 26 1979

2. ENCLOSURE

APPROVED:

Director

Açsos. Dir.

Dep. AD Inv.

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

sent.

Intoll.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

ach. Sarvs

Training

Public Affs, Off.,

Enclosures (2)

(6))

ALL INFCE:

ATTAINED

I02 IS U

LETE S 28\X1

iN TyBuy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

y..

FBI/DOJ

14 55032°

DooId:32989740 Page 22

•1111

---

## Page 23

"FEDERAL BUREAU OF INV

TIGATION

хтонтню отуті

MEMPHIS

OFFIIOR ORIOI

MEMPHIS

TITLE OF CASE

DATE

4/17/68

RIPORT MADE HY

SA JOE C. HESTER

CHARACTER OF CASE

нихатюлтісь телюр"

Apr1l 4-16, 1968

UNSUB; axa

ErIC StarVO Galt,

Harvey Lowneyer,

John Willard;

DE. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. -

VICTIN

CIVIL RIGHTS

Jas, ra1

-P-

ALL INFORMATION CONTATIED

ADK INISTRATIVE DATA:

In view of the large volume of correspondence in this case,

no attempt has been made to relerence any particular connuni-

cation.

Becauge of the urgency of this matter, leads fox

other offices are being set out by telephone or

teletype, '

and it would serve no purpose to set out leadfor other offices

In this report.

9cAids

=

The infornation included in this report hag been

carelully reviewed, and negative intervlews have been eliminated

wherever it was belloved possible to do go without giving the

appearance that less than a complete and thorqugh investigation

was conducted.

COMES MAOK: 6 - buread

3

- atlanta

Birminghan

6 1974

!

LACKBOn

LOS Angeles

1B APR 29 1968

Mobile

• New Orloang

- St. Louis

5 - Hemphis (44-1987)

He-CRunit, Rm. 2280

ICc-CRD

5-6-68

A copy of this report has not been designated for

DO NOT WATTI IN SPACTS MELOW

44138861-2332

REC 22

EX 109

- A ton)

6/9/74

~4d 694-0

COVER PAGE

102-187229

and D

90-04

PROPERTY Of F81,- Thia report is loaned to you by the FBi, and neither it nor lts contonte are to be distributed outsidot

• a e to hit band,

117/68

HH 55032

70 MAY 2 4 1968

DocId: 32989740.

Page 23

NiSH

Nt:: 1015

---

## Page 24

..."

XE 44-1987

the USA, Hestern District of Tennessee, Memphis, Tennessee,

out extra copies are being naintained in the Memphis Office

and will be made available to the USA when so directed by

the Bureau.

LEAD:

THE MEMPHIS OFFICE:

AT MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE:

M111 continue efforts to identily the Unknown

subject.

• NH 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 24

•- -

=

- B* .

COVER PAGE

...i

---

## Page 25

UNITED STATES: DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Coy 901

Report of

Dotes

File Norabers

SA JOE C. HESTER

Office: MEHPHIS

4/17/68

HE 44-1987

Thie:

UNKNOWN SUBJECT,

also known as

Eric Starvo Galt,

Harvey Lowneyer,

John Willard;

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. - VICTIN

Character: CIVIL RIGHTS

Synopele:

At about 6:00 PM On 4/4/68, while standing on second

Iloor balcony outside room 306 of the Lorraine Motel, 406

Mulberry stroot, Hemphis, t'ennessee, victim was struck ir

right side or lace by a single bullat. Autopay report 1ndi-

cated that "the severing of the spinal cord at this level

and to this extent wag a wound that was latal very shortly.

after its occurrence." This investigatlon, predicated

upon a specific request from the attornay General of the

U.s., disclosed fatal shot was fired Iron the bathroom of

a rooming house located at 422} 8. Main Street, Memphis,.

which bathroom was located at the roar of the rooming

house, and which had a mindon overlooking the Lorraine Hotel..

(Crime scene diagram included in detaila.) On afternoon of

" 4/4/68, Unknown Subject rented room 5-B at 422} S. Main

•Street and paid one weeks rent. After hearing rifle shot

at about 6:00 PH on 4/4/68, other tenants in rooming house

observed Unknown Subject flee from rooming house carrying

large package which was subsequently abandoned by hin on

sidewalk In Iront of Canipe Amusement Company, 424 S. Main

Street, Iron which place he was observed to flee in a white

Mustang. Found abandoned in Iront of 424 S. Main Street

was 30-06 Remington nodel 760 rifle, serial number 461476,

a small plastic suitcase containing autorous articles,

undershorts, & toe shirt, binoculars, and a brown and

bedspread in which all of there items wore partially wrappod.

Investigation at notels in the vicinity of Kemphis, Tennessee,

to locate an individual driving a white Mustang, disclosed

This docken! contalas salther recommendations nor conclusions of any kind. It li the property of the FBI, and is a loan to your engency!

# and/or its contents ane not to be diarlouted outaide your agency.

36-91004-3

+W+55032 D6t4-732089210 Page 25

---

## Page 26

IS 44-1987

2608 Highland avenue, BIrminghax,

AL a, had Spent the night of 4/3/68, at the Rebei notel.

S4 вах дви, немр, селева ала мад с а

a Mustang with alabana license 1-38993. Investigatior

disclosed binoculars abandoned by Unknown subjoct were

purchased arternoon o1 414/68, ITOR RALPH. ARPENTER,

Gilletto shay 1ng

purchased Oliver, Bexall drug store, whitenaven, onessoe.

autopsy Iindings set out.

IN VIEN OF THE CRIME POR WHICH UNSUB

BEING SOUGET, HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARKED AND DANGEROUE.

-₽ .

;

=200

HW 55032,

DocId: 32989710. Page 25

---

## Page 27

• FD-302 (Roy,4-15-61)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ralph B

Date _ April 8, 1968

ReVerend RALPi DaNy) ABERNATHY, 690 la Yerne Drive, N. Vo

at 10:55 p.

Georgis, was interviewed at the Memphis Police Departrent

Apr11 4, 1968.

RevErend ABERNATHY was advised of

the Agent's identity and of

the nature of the matter under Investiga-

tion.

Reverend ABiiialiy, who described hingelf as Vice President

the southern Christian Leadership

Conference, stated he was DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 's closest

associate and stated that he and Dr. KING always shared & room

whenever they travelled together. He stated that at about 10:30 e:u.

on April 3, 1968, he and DI. KING registered at the Lorraine Motel,

Nephig, Tennessee.

Reverend ABERNATHY stated that on April 4, 1968, he and DI.

KING did not leave the notel and spent nost of the day in their

rooM, $306, which 1s located on the second floor of the notel.

He stated that he and Dr. KING had been gone from their roon for

approximately one hour or legs when they returned to the room at

about 5:30 p.X. He said they got dressed as they were going to

dinner at the home of Reverend BILLY XyLE and that at almost exactly

6 p.n. they started to leave the room. Reverend ABERNATHY stopped

Iot & nonent and Di. KING walked out onto the balcony just outside

the door to his room.

Reverend ABERNATHY waS st1l1 ingide the

notel roon but could herr dI. KING discussing the dinner engagenent:

with other associates who Reverend ABERNATHY believes were standing

In the parking ares of the notel undernesth and to the front of the

balcony on which Dr. KING was standing.

Reverend ABERNATHY stated he heard what sounded l1k0 & fire-

cracker and then heard the screans of persons to whom dI. KING had

been talking.

Reverend ABERNATHY went then to the balcony and dis-

covered DI. KING lying there wounded in the right side of the face

and дось.

He said he believed DI. XING attempted to speak to him

but was unable to do so.

Reverend ABERNATHY said he instructed

someone to call an ambulance and then accompanied DI. KING in the

ambulance to the hospital where DI. KING subsequently died.

48

On -

4/4/68

at Memphis, Tennegsee

File # Hemphis 44-1987

by BA JOE C. HESTER: bo

-Date dictated _4/8/68

Thie document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBl. It in the property of the FBI and is loaned to

yow money: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

---

## Page 28

ME 444-1897

Reverond ABERNaTHY stated that judging fron the sound

of the noise it appeared that the shot cane Iron diroctly in

Iront of the door and not fron any great distanco.

Bo statod

ho did not observe anything that rould indicate who sired the

shot.

Reverend ABERRATiY a1so stated that while they voro la

the notal room DI. XING did not, to his knomledgo, receiva say

telophono calls ot a threatening nature or calle

Ітом розкоря

who would not identity themselves.

Beverend ABERNATHY saId

Dr. XING had not ferred that any particular persons night

barn blu and ReVOreNd ABERNATHY nas unablo to suggest any

suspocta or to provide any othor

assist in 1dont1ty1n8 DI. XING'& &1ll0I.

Information which =1ght

49

my bows vo6ta:s2989710 Page 28

---

## Page 29

FD-36.(Ror: 5-22-84)

FBI

.Date:

1/31/69

Transmit the following in

Via

'(Type in plainiez: or code)

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, ATLANTA (44-2386) (P)

MURKIN

Re Atlanta teletype to Bureau and Memphis dated

1/30/69, and Bureau telephone call to Atlanta, 1/30/69.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five (5) copies of LEM and

• to Hemphis are two (2) copies of LHM captioned "ASSASSINATION OF

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., AT MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, APRIL 4, 1968".

Icc: AAG GR

Form

T.7,

•S\30\8%

1008 AAG CI

T0ТMB-94

FEB

CIVIL RIGHTS UNTY

Bureau (Enc. 5).

2

Memphis

• (Enc.

2) El

-

Atlanta

ORH : VEC

(7)

REC 101

Rumplet

1-388/1-5531

a FEB 8.1969.

1t.:

EBT

1=0=

1290 - 123

11 28 30,9

Approved:

6

2 FEB 1 Special

ayor in Charge

HIH

55032

DooId: 32989740

Page 29

---

## Page 30

-----

UNIT

Ins Reply, Placre Refer to

File No.

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Atlanta, Georgia

January 31, 1969

:

ASSASSINATION OF

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

AT MEMPHIS

APRIL 4, 1968

TENNESSEE

The January 29, 1969, edition of "The Washington Post"

newspaper contained an article which quoted Rev. Ralph David

Abernathy, President of the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference, as indicating in a news conference that a conspiracy

exists

with

regard to the assassiantion of Dr. Martin Luther

king, Jr.

On January 30

are set forth

on the following page:

*

5130130-51

-

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI..

It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be dis-

tributed outside your agency.

44-38861-5531

LNH. 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 30

---

## Page 31

FD-202 (Ror.815-641

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Dats

tai

RAJY 81, 2969

statonant to the press, ich vas proted la the fanbinaton

Indication to his that thare say bo

sorces of ovil to do away with any young militait who stands

fOr IIghteOUInONs: BOY. ABIINATIY adtIsod that he bRs DO

specille inforustion or other aridance that a conspiracy aristo

Ith rompect to tha apacIliC annansieation of tI. XIna....

advleed that the statement made to the press on dauary to,.

1968, 1n which ho safarted to a conspiracy concerned the

ANNARNIRAtIOn of all of the aboVe-MaNtIOnod parMONs. IN FOgAId

tO THORO ANNRSSINATIOM DO VINO 1I CLARI DO LRS DO OTISONOS

Win part that such a ponspiracy doon axlet, Ia utated he lan

no ides what IndivIduala of SOrCes Mald be LAvOlved ln Much

conspital.

RAY. ABDULATHY advined that overal months ago tay.

JANES LATION, Minintor of the Contanary sethodiat thurch at

XaY. ABERNATY, that it was sov.

DI DE. KING, tOO MONTO IITANds, Tho had boon asBigned to 3h0

1ixo station scrons the strost fron the notel there Do. LING

vas x1llod, mere noved to another l1ra station. According to

Roy. HAlson that nore loft the shr0 statton senanned and they

voro noved to a station walch man already fully manned and

•quippod, Alno according to LaY. LAYBOX, a Mogo poLice!,

Who worked the boat unich Included the notal whore dI. JIHG Mar

k1lled, vas soved off of that boat :8 as.

k1llod, AptLl 1, 1088, bat prior to the tilling.

HH 55032

Or 1/30/62

tlant

-Barera

_FIl#Atlanta 11-2388

DYNA D: RICHAND JANITOR

_Date dictated.

1/81/69

This document contolns nolther recommendalions nos conclusions of the FBI. Il is the property of the FBI and la loaned lo your agency:

Il and ils contente ara nol to ba dialribulad aulside your agency.

DooId:32989740 Page 31

---

## Page 32

(48

62-117295

14 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 32

---

## Page 33

SELECT COMICEE ON ASSIS IN RIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENT TIVES

WASHINGTON,

D.C. 20515.

I RE: RAY V. TENNESSES, CR. INDICTIN

NUMBER 16645, SUELEY COUNTY, TA.

SI TEENT OF, JIMES E. RAY.

НН 55032 DooId:32989740

ALL INFORRATION CONTAINED

I OUTA IS

DATE S(28/863

Page 33

---

## Page 34

THE STATEHEIT I AM ABOUT TO GIVE THIS COILITTEE IS ESSENLIALLY •

THE SAME TESTIHORT I WOULD HAVE GIVES THE TRIAL COURI IN HEPATS,

TENNESSEE, IN 1969 IF THAT COURT WOULD HAVE BAD TRE FORTITUDE 50

HAVE ORDERED A PUBLIC TRIAL INTO THE HURDER OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING JI., RATHER,

AUZ MANTISE CUMBERS HIT WITH ME ATTORTEX

WHO WAS ALLEGEDLY

REPRESETING ME, PERCY FOREMAN, AND CAPITULATING

TO THE WISHES OF

TIE DOMINANE COMMERCIAL PUELI SHIUG COMPANIES &

THE COMPANIES

SPECIAL RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE LUTELLIGIICE COMMUNITIES.

IN ESSENCE I WOULD

HAVE TOLD HE TRIAL COURT & JURY THAT I DID FOT

SBOOT MARTIN LUTHER KING JI. JUST

AS I AM NOW THLLING TRIS CONHITTEE,

AND IF I HOULD HAVE HAD A LAWYER TO REPRESENT ME, I COULD HAVE OFFERED

CONCLUSIVE PROOF IN SUPPORT OF THE DENIAL.

I KNOW SEVERAL LARGE PUBLISHING HOUSES WORKING WITH THE F.B.I.

HAVE OFFERED UP VARIED MOTIVATIONAL ALLEGATIONS -WHICH ARE REFERED, :

TO BELOW-- TO SUPPORT TRE GOVERDMENT'S CASE AGAINST HE, BUT IT WAS

NOT I WHO POSTED MARTIN LUTHER KING HOTES SUGGESTING HE KILL HIMSELF,

RATHER IT WAS THE PAB-I-; NORWAS IT HE WITZESS WEO CELEERATED UPON

HEARING OF HIS MURDER, THAT TO WAS THE F.B.I -- AID IT HAS ALSO BOT

I WHO IN THE 1930'& THFECTED FLACK'S WITH SYPHILIS GERIS FOR EXPER-

IMENTAL PURPOSES THEN

DECLINED TO TREAT THEM, THAT WAS THE ACTION

OF A COVERIHENT BODY WITH TEE ACQUIESCERCE OF THE DOMINATI PRESS.

IN RESPECT'S TO THE GUILTI PLEA I MADE IN THE KING CASE, IT IS

NOT A DIFFICULT MATTER FOR A ATTORNEY IO MANEUVER BIS CLIENT INTO

A GUILTY PLEA TO A CRIMINAL INDICTHETI, ESPECIALUI WETH ME AFIORITEY

HAS THE ACTIVE COOPERAZION OF TIE JUDGE & PROSECUTOR, AND I AM SURE

IN 55032 Soles 38b9a9z4a RagEs

---

## Page 35

IVERI NESBER OF TELS COLMITTEE VITH LEGAL TRAING KIOUS TITS!

BUT THE PUBLIC DOSETE, THEY THIK OF CUILT PARAS AS THEY USED

TO THINK OF THE F.R-I., THAT THE PLEAS ARE MADE IN LEAVEN. FURITER,

EVERY JUDGE WIO HAS LAYED HAEDS OR TITS CASE KEDUS THE PLEA WAS

PROCURED EX FRAUD ID THEREFORE KESW A TRIAT SEOULD HAVE RED.

ORDERED. BUT FRE COURIS HAVE BEEN MORE INTUIT EY SAY- EDITORIALS

IMBEDDED IN "TIKE"

MAGAZINE ARTICLES ABOUT TRE CASE THAN THEY HAVE

IB LIE LAW BOOKS.

BUT HAYBE I SHOULD BE IN JAIL ALTHOUCH BOT FOR SHOOTING ALTOLE

RATHER BEING FOOLISH

HOUGHT TO RETURN TOYA LEGAL SHARE PIT, EVEN IF

THE OFFER WAS FORT KNOX & CHARLIE'S ANGELS TO

SPEND IT ON, OICED I

HAD REACHED CANADA IN 196?.

I BELIEVE WEAT EVER THIS COMITTEE'S ULTIMATE FILDINGS ARE IN

THIS MATTER IT WILL HAVE PERFOPHED A VALUALE SERVICE, IF UNIUTENTION

AL, IN UNMASKING THE UNITED STATES JUDICIAL SYSTELES OPERATION,

LEAGUE WITH DOMINANT PUBLISHING COMPAHIES, IN RAZUROADING INNOCENT

DEFENDANTS

IN CONTROVERSAL CRIKINAL CASES INTO

PRISON, TEHE CORTRIB

UTING TO THE SAVAGING OF DIE DEFENDANTS I

SOLITARY CONFLUEMENT,

DET ATE ME DETARD MI OF MIS E

BECAUSE THE DEFENDAKIS INSISTED ON PROVISIONS GTARAHTEED THEN UNDER

THE FEDERAL CONSTITUIION AND LACKED THE POLITICAL INFLUFICE TO CLAIH

IT. THAT IS, FOR CLASS OR OTHER REASONS THEY HERE OUT OF EATOR WITE

THE DOHIKAT PRESS. IN THIS RESPECI, THE SINDIGATED COLUNZIST, CARI

ROWEL, HAS WRITTEN IO THE BEFECT INAT "IF ANY GROUP IN TAE UNITED

SIATES DOES EOT HAVE INFLUFUCK WITH IRE DOMINALT PRESS THEI CAN

EXPECT TO BE GROUND UNDER,

Pa 2

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 35

- -

---

## Page 36

FINALLY, IT WOULD APPEAR THAT DIE LASI ACE PERIOPED EX THE .

INTELLIGEICE AGENCIES/PUSLISHING EPIRES WHET A PUELIC FICURE

IS HURDERED, AND THE ALLEGED HURDERER IS DECIDED UPOH, IS FOR THE

CONSTRUCTION OF A "PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFILE" FOR SHE EDIFICATION OF

THE JUDICIARY,

• IN THE INSTAIR CUSE THE "PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFIIE" AS PROIED

BY TRE E.B.I.;

"TLIE" HAGAZINE

"TIKE'S" LEGAL, EBORGE MCHILLIAE,

AND UNITED PRESS

SRITATIONAL

ICTERIZES THE WITHESS AS TAUS:

1... A MARCOTIC ADDICT.

TIME" MAG. JAN, 26, 1976 ISSUE.

2e A HARCOTIC PEDDLER.

88

3. A SEX DEVIATE, TIPE UXEXPLAINED.

4o MAINLINED DRUGS.

81

10

88

F-BAL UNCLE HIRESERVICE

RELEASE, JAHUARY. 25, 1978-

So WENT INSAME, 1963-64 Dariod.

6. CONSTARTLY READ GIRLIE HAGAZINES.

88

88

88

7. SENT

OBSCENE LETTER TO POST OFFICE,

1967-68 Par1od.....

8. PLAGUED THO WOMEN WITH LATE WICHT

TELEPHONE CALLS, 1967-68 period.

S. INVOLVED IN DRUG TRAFFIC

LASILI, CHEATED FELLON PRISONERS IN

CROOKED GARD GAMES..

18

IN REGARD TO THE ABOVE MENTIONED "PSYCHOLOGICAL PROFILE", I WILI

ACCEPT IHE "PROFILE" AS IDE TYPE PERSON VRO WOULD SEOOT FARTIN LUTHER

KING JI-, FURTHER, AS I DID IN A LETTER IO AFTOBI GERA, ERIFIE

BETI (EXH. B), IP ANY ONE OF ILE AFORE ENTIONED ACCUSATIONS CAN BE

SUBSTANTIATED BY THE RECORD: PRISON RECORDS; HILITARI RECORDS;

HH 55032

DocId:32989740 Page 36

---

## Page 37

' is via!

EMPLOMENT RECORDS, OR ALY RESPOUSIELE OFFICIAL, COUVERSANT

WITH SAID RECORDS, THEN I WILL APPEAR BEFORE 'CIS COSTTEE AND

TAKE FULL RESPORSIBILITY FOR THE KING MURUEP--INER I RAFERS 10

"RECORDS", THAT DOES ROT INCLUDE P.B.I. PURCHASED INFORMATION

FROM THEIR INFORMERS-

HH 55032

THE AFORE ERITIONED

"PROFILE" CHARACTERIZATION, THE F.B.I. HAS ALSO

HARASSING VARIOUS MEMBERS OF MY FAMILI IN ORDER TO MANUEVER TREL INTO

A POSITION WHEREBY

LADY HOULD RAVE

1D, PERJURE THEMSELVES AGAINST ME

IN SOME HANKER RELATED IO THE KING CASE

3 ORDER 10 ESCAPE PRISOE

THEMSELVES, FOR INSTANCE:

1. THE F.B.I. EVIDENTLY BURGLARIZED MY SISTER, CARDI

PEPPER'S HOME IN 1968 LOOKING FOR INGRIMIRATING EVIDENCE.

(JACK ANDERSON, SYRDICATED COLUMN, HOVEMBER 8, 1977.)

2. THE F.B.I. HAD MY BROTHER, JOHN I. RAT

A PROSECUTED &

CONVICTED FOR AIDING & ABETTING A BANK ROBBERY, AND THE

TERIAL JUDGE, HOW F.B.I. DIRECIOR, WILLIAM I. WEBSTER,

SENTENCE HIM TO FIGITEEN YEARS;

BE IRE ACTUAL ROBBER

LATER HAD HIS CHARGE TRANSFERED

NO THE E.D. OF CALIFORNIA

WHERE FEDERAL DEE Di

ROCKER SEITETCED THE ROBBER TO

EIGHTEEN MORTIS.

3. AND THE WIRESERVICES REPORTED ON AUGUST 8,1978, THAT

THE F.B.I. HAD PATED AB INFORHER, OLIVER PATTERSON,

TO: STEAL LETTERS;. WIRETAP CONVERSATIONS, eCt., FROM

AROTEER BROTHER, DERRI Ma RAI.

DocId: 32989740

Page 37

---

## Page 38

•

ON APRIL, 23, 1967, I ESCAPED FROR THE MISSOURI STATE PRISON IN A BREAD

BOX IN THE MANNER AS FOLLONSS

SEVERAL DAYS PRIOR TO THE ESCAPE I FASHIONED A BOARD APPROXIMATALY 3XL

FECT WHICH WOULD FIT INSIDE A BOX USED TO TRANSPORT BREAD OUTSIDE THE

PRISON. IN ADDITION, I MADE SEVERAL HOLBS IN THE LOWERS SIDES OF THE BOX

WITH A HAUMER & NAIL.

THEREAFTER ON APRIL 23, 1967, I ENTERED THE PRISON

KITICHEN EARLY (I WORKED AFTERNOONS ), AT APPROXIMATELY 8:00AM. LATER I

ENTERED THE BREAD ROOM WHERE BREAD FROM THE BAKERY WAS LOADED INTO THE

BOX TO BE TRUCKED TO

A PRISON

METIME AFTER ENTERING THE BREAD

ROOM I GOT INTO THE

BREAD BOX AND COVERED MYSELE WITH THE 3X4 FOOT BOARD.

THEREAFTOR A PRISONER

ILLED THE BOX WITH BREAD

AND THEN TRANSFERED THE

BOX DO:NSTAIRS VIA ELEVATOR ONTO A PLATFORM USED TQ LOAD TRUCKS TRANSPORTING

ITEMS OUTSIDE THE PRISON COMPOUND. SHORTLY THEREAFTER THE BOX, WITH ME

ENCLOSED, WAS PLACED ON A WAITING TRUCK. THE TRUCK

THEN PROCEDED THROUGH

A PRISON SECURITY GATE WHERE A GUARD SEARCHED THE BOX

BY RAISING THE LI

AND VIEWING INSIDE. AFTER PASSING THROUGH THE PRISON

GATE I GOT OUT OF

THE BOX. AFTER THE TRUCK CROSSED THE MISSOURI RIVER

BRIDGE, NEARBY THE

PRISON FARM, IT STOPPID BEFORE TURNING INTO THE ROAD LEADING TO THE FARM;

WHEN THE TRUCK STOPPED I DISEMBARKED. I THEN CROSSED THE HIGHWAY, TURNED

RIGHT, AND FOLIONED A DIRT ROAD-UNCH 'OME UPON SVERAL JUNKED AUTOMOBILES.

I STAYED IN ONE OF THE VECHICLES UNTIL DARK, THEN LEFT THE VECHICLE, CROSSED

UNDER THE BRIDGE THAT I HAD PREVIOUSLY CROSSED IN THE BREAD TRUCK. I THEN

MADE MY WAY TO A NEARBY RAILROAD TRACK. ( I HAD DEPARTED THE PRISON WITH

SEVERAL CANDY BARS AND IN ADDITION HAD TAKEN SOME BREAD FROM THE BREAD

TRUCK; I HAD ALSO TAKEN FROM THE PRISON ON BY PERSON APPROXIMATELY $250.00.

AND A RADIO ALONG WITH A SOCIAL SECURITY CARD NUMBER REGISTERED UNDER THE

pa 5

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 38

---

## Page 39

MH 55032

NAKE OF, JOHN L. RAYNS & TWO PHONE NUMBERS.)

AFTER A PERIOD OF WALKING THE RAILROAD TRACKS I GROSSED VIA A SWITCH

ONTO ANOTHER SET OF TRACKS. AFTER WALKING THO OR THREE NIGHTS ON THE

TRACKS, AND SLESPING DAYS, AND HAVING RAN OUT OF FOOD, I CAME UPON A

TRAILER. APPARENTLY THE TRAILER WAS INTENDED AS A FISHING CABIN AS I

BELIEVE IT WAS LOCATED NEAR A RIVER. I ENTERED THE TRAILER AND FOUND A

BOTTLE CONTAINING WINE AND SEVERAL ITRIS OF FOOD. UPON LEAVING THE

TRAILER I HAD THS WINE & OR MIH ME TYS NY RECOLLECTION THAT DURING

THIS APPROXIMATE PERIOD

AGAIN CROSSED A SWITCH ONTO ANOTHER TRACK; HOW-

EVER, DURING ALL OF THE

ALKING I WAS MOVING IN THE GENERAL DIRECTION OF

KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI.

ON THE 4th OR 5th DAY OUT I WAS ALSO TRAVELING BY

DAY. ON ONE OF THESE DATS IT COMMENCED RAINING AND I MOVED UNDERNEATH .

A TRUSSEL AND STARTED A

BIRE. SHORTLY THEREAFTER A HANDCAR STOPPED OVER

THE TRUSSEL. THS THO OPERATORS OF THE CAR DISEIBARKSD AND ENQUIRED OF ME

ABOUT THE SMOKE. I EXPLAINED I HAD BEEN CAUGHT IN THE RAIN AND HAD

STARTED THE FIRE TO DRY OUT. THEY SAID ALRIGHT AND LEFT ( DURING THIS

PERIOD MY SHOES HAD FRIL OFF CONSEQUENTLY I HAD TO MAKE A FORCIBLE

ENTRY INTO A STORE TO OBTAIN ANOTHER PAIR).

ON THE GIH DAY I OBSERVED A SMALL TOWN. THAT EVENING I ENTERED THE TOWN,

PURCHASED FOOD & DRINK, THEN RETURNED TO THE RAILPOAD YARDS. LATER THAT

EVENING I CAUGHT

A FRIEGHT TRAIN TRAVELING IN THE DIRECTION OF SI. LOUIS,

MISSOURI. I ARRIVED IN ST. LOUIS WHILE IT WAS STILL DARK. AFTER A PERIOD

OF WAITING IN THE RATIROAD YARDS, AND WHEN IT COMENCED TO LIGHTEN, I

MADE IN WAY TO SOUTH SI. LOUIS TO THE RESIDENCE DE AN INDIVIQUAL SHO

CALLED HIMSELF THE ~ CATMAN, HIS APPARENT GIVEN NAME BEING, JACK GORWIN.

I INTENDED FOR MR. GORWIN TO ARRANGE FOR MY TRANSPORTATION TO EDHARDSVILLE,

TE NOTS 9WEVEale ORWIN WAS NOT HOME THEREFORE I CAUGHT A IAXI TO,BASI

---

## Page 40

THEREAFTER I CAUGHT ANOTHER TAXI TO EDWARDSVILLE, ILLINOIS, THEN THE BUS

STATION WHEREIN I BOARDED A BUS BOUND FOR CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. ALTHOUGH

I AM NOT CERTAIN I BELIEVE I PAYED THE BUS DRIVER THE FARE RATHER THAN

PURCHASING A TICKET IN THE STATION• UPON ARRIVING IN CHICAGO ON APRIL.

30, 1967, I MADE MY WAY TO 2731 NORTH SHEFFIELD AND RENTED A ROCH•

ON MAY 3, 1967, I APPLIED FOR A JOB AS DISHWASHER AT THE INDIAN TRAI

RESTAURANT IN WINNETKA, ILLINOIS, A CHICAGO SUBURB-I LEARNED OF THE JOB

FROM AN ADVERTISTIENT IN THE CHICAGO TRIBUNS WORST

SEEN T RECEIVZO THE

JOB AND SHORTLY THEREAFTER&I PURCHASED A 1960 CHRYSLER FOR $100.00. I

PURCHASED THE CHRYSLER IN ORDER TO ACCUMULATE IDINTIFICATION &

COMHUTE TO & FROM WORK. I ALSO TOOK A DRIVER'S TEST AND PASSED; HOWEVER,

ALTHOUGH I REGEIVED A TRIPORARY

DRIVING P

RMIT-I NEVER RECEIVED THE

PERMANENT LICENSE. I USPONTHE NAME, JOHN Ie

RAYNS, DURING THIS PERIOD.

WHILE I WAS EMPLOYED BY THE AFORZMENTIONED RESTAURANT I WROTE THE

CANADIAN COUNSEL IN CHICAGO INQUIRING ABOUT CANADIAN IMHIGRATION PROCEDURE;

IN REPLY THE COUNSEL MAILED ME SEVERAL BROCHURES.

CON OR ABOUT JUNE 27,

1967, I TERMINATED EMPLOYENT AT THE INDIAN TRAIL RESTAURANT. THERZAFTER

I DROVE TO QUINCY, ILLINOIS, TO WAIT FOR THE LAST CHECK TO CLEAR FROM

SAID RESTAURANT EMPLOYMENT. IT WAS ALSO MY

INTENTION TO VISIT WHILE IN

QUINCY AN AUNT, MRS. FRANK FULLER, AND SEE ONE

OR THO ACQUAINTANCES. I

STAYED IN QUINCY APPROXIMATELY 12 DAYS,

ALTHOUGH I DID NOT SEE MY AUNI•

DURING THE PERIOD

NOT STAYE

ALTERNATIVELY IN THO HOTELS; ONE

BEING LOCATED ON THE CORNER OF ZND AND O4K STREET, THE OTHER ON THE CORNER

OF 3RD AND OAK STREET. THE ONLY INDIVIDUAL THAT I SAW AND WAS FAMILIAR

cooley

WITH IN QUINCY WAS TED CRONLEY,

PROPRIETOR OF A LOCAL CLUB. I MAY

HAVE TOLD MR. CROWLEY SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT I HAD RECENTLY BREN

IW 55032 DOeIesZ2089ZA0 DRIERHERO DRISAN. AFTER STAYING IN QUINCY. ILLIOIS, FOR

---

## Page 41

THE ABOVE MENTIONED PERIOD, I RETURNED TO WINNETKA, ILLINOIS, TO

PICK-UP THE CHECK I HAD COMING FROS THE INDIAN TRAIL RESTAURANT, IT

IS ALSO BY RECOLLBCTION THAT I CHECKED INTO A HOTEL LOCATED AT 161,8

WEST LUNT STRET FOR A COUPLE DAYS. AFTER PICKING UP THE CHECK I DECIDED

TO DRIVE TO EAST SI. LOISE, ILLINOIS, AND POSSIBLI SEE FARILY MEMBERS

BEFORE MOVING TO, CANADA. ON THE WAY TO EAST ST. LOUIS I DEVELOPED

CAR TROUBLE. I RECALL EPIC I THE CRISiBRO NICHE & A HICHY

PATROIMAN WAKING & ASKING ME IF I HAD ANY PROBLES. IN EAST ST. LOUIS

I STAYED ONZ NIGHT IN ARUN-DOWN HOTEL NEAR DOWNTON. THE NEXT DAY I

SOLD THE CHRYSLER TO

BEHVIGEESPATION OPERATOR FOR APPROXIJATILY $50.00;

I THEN PURCHASED IN EASY

ST. LOUIS ON JULY

1967, A RED PLYKOUTH FOR

$200.00- I HAD A PROBLEM MAKING THE PURCHASE

THOUGH I DON'T RECALL WHÁT

THE PROBLET WAS. I PHONED JACK " THE CATYAN" GOWRIN DURING THE DAY;

KET HIM IN ZAST ST. LOUIS, AND HAD HIS PURCHASE ME

PISTOL FROM A

FENCE HE KNE: AND THAT HE COULD PAY FOR PENSION DAY

I TOLD GORIN

TO TILL NY FAMILY MABIRS THAT I AS LEAVING THE COUNTRY AND WOULD

TRY TO CONTACT THEM LATER; AND FOR HIM NOT TO MENTAON TO THE POLICE THAT

HE HAD SAW ME UNLESS HE WANTED TO GO TO JAIL.

LATER THAT DAY I DROVE TO

INDIANAPOLIS,

INDIANA, STAYING IN A HOTSI

HAT NIGHT. THE NEXT DAY I

CROSSED INTO CANADA VIA MM8-ENDSOR TUNNEL IN DETROIT, MICHIGAN. I

SLEPT ALONG THE ROAD THE NIGHT OF JULY 16, 1967, AND THE NEXT DAY

I ENTERED THE ENVIRONS OF MONTREAL, CANADA, STAYING IN A MOTEL PART OF

THE DAY•

NH 55032 DocId: 32989740

- Page 41

---

## Page 42

25.00

'50.00

25.00

THE DAY I ENTERED MONTREAL PROPER ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS I DID WAS

ENQUIRE OF A TRAVIL AGGI, VIA TELEPHONE, THE PROCEDURE FOR A CANADIAN

TO ACQUIRE A CANADIAN PASSPORT. I HAS INFORMED THAT I MUST HAVE A

GUARANTOR WHO WOULD TESTIFY THAT HE/SHE HAD KNOWN ME FOR THO YEARS.)

THAT EVENING IN MONTREAL ON ST. CATHERINE EAST, IN A NIGHT CLUB, I

WAS ACCOSTED BY A PROSTITUTE, SUBSEQUANTLY I AGRRID TO GO TO HER PLACE

VIA TAXICAB• AFTER WE GOT LOCATED IN HER APARIMENT I GAVE HER THE RE_

QUESTED $25.00 PES ANDORE CALLIS ME MONEY TO AN PORTIC, WHEN I

LEFT I WROTE DOWN THE

DDRESS OF THE BUILDING. THE NEXT DAY I RENTED

AN APARIMENT IN THE, HIR-K-APARTMENTS, LOCATED AT, 2589 NOTRE DAME EAST;

THEN LATER, I PARKED ME

OSED TO THE BUILDING WHERE I HAD THE

• NIGHT BEFORE BEN WITH THE PROSTITUTE.

THAT EVENING I RETURNED TO THE

AFOREMENTIONED NIGHT CLUB AND, MEETING THE SAMS GIRI, AGAIN ACCOMPANIED

HER VIA TAXI TO HER APARTMENT. INSIDE HER APARINENT I GAVE HER ANOTHER,;

$25.00 BUT THIS TIME I SHOWED HER THE PISTOL MR. GORWIN HAD PURCHASED FOR'

ME AND TOLD HER I WOULD GO WITH HER TO WHERE EVER SHE WAS TAKING THE MONEY.

WHEN SHE AROUSED THE MANAGER INTO OPENING THE "OFFICE

DOOR I PUT THE

PISTOL ON HIM. WE MOVED BACK INTO THE OFFICE WHERED I ASKED HIM FOR THE

MONEY. TAKING

QUI HIS WALLET HE DEFERED ME THE SMALL AMOUNI IN IT, ABOUT

5 OR 10 DOLLARS.

WHEN I TOLD HIM I WANTED THE

BREST OF THE MONEY, HE

SPOKE ABOUT A CABINET NEARBY AND MOTIONED TO A CONTAINER. BEFORE LEAVING

THE "OFFICE", I HAD THE MANAGER LIE ON A BED AND THE GIRL REMOVE HER

STOCKING AND TIE HIS HANDS & LEGS. I THEN HAD HER GET UNDER THE BED

BEFORE DEPARTING. LATER I FOUND I HAD TAKEN APPROXIMATELY $1-700,00

IN MIXED CURRENCY FROM THE MANAGER'S OFFICE.

DURING THE NEXT FEW DAYS I PURCHASED CLOTHING AND DECIDED THE ONLY WAY

H# 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 42

---

## Page 43

I COULD COME BY TRAVEL DOCUMENTS IN ORDER TO LEAVE CANADA WOULD BE

TO EITHER PERSUADE SONDONE TO ACT AS MY GUARANTOR OR, PERHAPS ROLL

A DRUNKING SEAVAN FOR HIS SEAMAN'S PAPERS, DURING THE NEXT COUPLE OF

WEEKS I DID SPEND CONSIDERABLE TIME NEAR THE MONTREAL DOCK AREA

FREQUENTING BARS. I HAS NEVER ABLE TO COME BY MERCHANT SEAMAN PAPERS

ALTHOUGH I DID CONTACT AN INDIVIDUAL WHO INTRODUCED HISELF AS ROUAL. I

FIRST MET HIM IN THE NEPTUNE TAVERN. 121 WEST COMMISSIONERS STREET. HE

WAS APPROXIMATELY 35 pRO-40 EATS OLD, 510 INCHES TAIL, WITH DARK HAIR

AND A RED TINT IN ITH HE SPOKE WITH A SLIGHT SPANISH ACCENT. I ASSUMED

• FROS HIS DEVIANOR & CONVERSATION THAT OUR INTEREST COULD BE COPATIBLE,

AND AFTER A COUPLS MELT'ING IT WAS ESTABLISHED THAT I WAS INTERESTED IN

SOME TYPE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS, WHILE HIS INTEREST WAS IN LOCATING SOMEONE

WHO WOULD, FOR A PRICE HELP HIM MOVE SOME TYPE CONTRABAND THROUGH

UNITED STATES CUSTOMS AT THE CANADIAN

BÖRDER. DURING THE INTIAL

MEETING WITH ROUAL, PERHAPS 3 OR 4, NOTHING WAS DECIDED DEFINITELY

MAINLY BECAUSE I HAD DECIDED TO TAKE A VACAT

ION IN A LAURANTIAN MOUNTAIN

RESORT AND WHILE THERE ENLIST THE ASSISTANCE

SORIZONE, PREFERABLE

FRIALE, IN PROCURING A CANADIAN PASSPORT, i.eo

ATTEIPTING TO FIND

SOMEONE WHO WOULD ACT AS MY GUARANTOR IN MAKDIG

APPLICATION FOR A

PASSPORT. SUBSEQUENTLY I DID DRIVE TO THE

GRAY ROCKS INN, IN THE

LAURENTIAN MOUNTAINS, AND MET A WOMAN SIND LATER SAW HER AGAIN IN THE

CANADIAN CAPITOL OF OTTAWA. HOWEVER, I LEARNED SHE WAS EPLOYED BY THE

CANADIAN GOVERMENT AND THUS CONSIDBRED IT ILL ADVISED TO DISCUSS THE

GUARANTOR QUESTION WITH HER. THEPEFORE IN RETURNING TO MONTREAL FROM

THE LAURENTIANS MOUNTAINS I HAD DECIDED TO ACCEPT ANY REASONABLE PROPO

SITION ROUAL MIGHT OFFER IN RETURN FOR TRAVEL DOCUMENTS.

HH 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 43

---

## Page 44

AFTER' I RETURNED TO MONTREAL I DID MEET WITH ROVAL SEVERAL MORE

TIMES. HIS PROPOSALS, AND MY ACCEPTANCE, WERE IN ESSENCE:

1) THAT I WOULD MEST HIM IN WINDSOR, CANADA, AT APPROXIMATELY

3:00PM AUGUST 21, 1967, NEAR THE RAILROAD STATION IN MY

AUTOMOB I.B.

2) THAT HE WOULD THEN PROVIDE ME WITH CERTAIN PACKAGES TO

TRANSPORT ACROSS ME BORDER INTO THE BITES STATES.

3) THAT I WOULD FOR TRANSPORTING THE PACKAGES INTO THE UNITES,

STATES BE PROVIDED WITH TRAVEL DOCUMENTS AND AND UNSPECIFIED

AMOUNT OF MONEY®

4) THAT THEBATTER I WORR

I THE PLYMOUTH AUTOMOBILE AND

TRAVEL TO BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, WHERZIN I WOULD AGAIN MEET

ROUAL FOR SOME SIMULAR TYPE SMUGGLING OPERATION APPARENTLY

IN MEXICO- ROUAL HAD INITIALLY SUGGESTED THAT I GO TO

MOBILE, ALABAMA.

I ACCEPTED THE ABOVE MENTIONED PROPOSALS, ALTHOUGH IT WAS MY INTENTIONS

ONCED I LAYED HANDS ON THE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS TO PESTURNITO CANADA.

ON AUGUST 21, 1967, AI APPROXINATELY 3:00PM I WAS PARKED NEAR THE WINDSOR,

CANADA, RAILROAD STATION AND AFTER WAITING A HALE HOUR OR LESS ROVAL, CAME

TO THE PLYMOUTH WITH AN ATTACHE CASE, ENTERED THE AUICHOBILE, IND SAID

"IETS COM. STARTING THE JUIDIOBILE HE-DIRECTED ME TONARD A SIDS STRET

WHERE IN HE MOVED INTO THE BACK SEAT AFTER STOPPING AND PLACED THRRE PACKAGES

UNDER THE BACK REST, THEN RETURNING TO THE FRONT SEAT HE DIRECTED ME TOWARD

THE TUNNEL THAT CONNECTS WINDSOR WITH DETROIT, MICHIGAN. BEFORE WE ARRIVED AT

THE TUNNEL ENTRANCE HE ASK ME TO LET HIM OUT SAYING HE WOULD CROSS SEPERATELY

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 44

119

---

## Page 45

AND FOR ME TO PICK HIM UP ON THE UNITED STATES SIDE. HE SAID HE HOULDD

CROSS IN A CAB AND TO GIVS HIM A FEN MINUTES BEFORB I CROSSID. I CLEARED

THE CUSTOMS WITH NO DIFFICULITY AND PICKED UP ROUAL ON THE UNITED STATES

SIDE OF THE TUNNEL. HE THEN DIRECTED ME TO ANOTHER SIDE STREET WHERE HE

REMOVED THE PACKAGES. I THEN DROVE HIM TO THE DETROIT BUS STATION. LETTING

HIM OUT HE TOLD ME NOCTURN TO WINDSOR AND WAIT AT THE SAME PLACE AS BEFORE.

I THEN RETURNED TO THE WINDSOR RAILROAD STATION AND AFTER 10 OR 15 MINUTES

HOUAL APPEARED AGAIN ND HE REPEATED THE PROCEDURE EXCEPT THIS TIME WE

TRAVELED OVER THE BRIDGE CONTECTING THE THO COUNTRIES. HONOVER, WHILE

WATTING IN LINE TO CROSS THESSRIDGE

HQLICED CUSTOM'S OFFICERS WERE

SEARCHING SEVERAL OF

AUTOMOBILES AHEAD

ORi

RECALLING I HAD A

TELEVISION SET IN THE PLYNOUTH, WHICH I WAS REQUIRED TO DECLARE AT CUSTONS,

AND WISHING TO AVOID A SEARCH OF THE PLYMOUTH, I DEGLARED THE TALEVISION

SET. THE CUSTOM'S OFFICER THEN DIRECTED ME INTO A SPECIAL LANE AND WAS IN

THE PROCESS OF SEARCHING THE PLYMOUTH WHEN ANOTHER CUSTOM'S OFFICER

APPEARED IND, APPARITLY ORDEPING THE FIRST CUSTON'S OFEICER TO OTHER

DUTIES, TOLD ME TO PAY A TELSVISION TAX IN CUSTOM'S OFFICE AND LEAVE.

WHEN I LATER MET ROUAL ON THE UNITED STATES SIDE OF THE BRIDGE HE APPEARED

SCHEWHAT NERVOUS, AND I INFORMED HIM I HAD BEIN HELD UP BY CUSTONS AND

SHOWED HI

THE TELEVISION TAX-RECEIPT PROVIDED

B

'CUSTOMS. HE THEN

DROVE TO A SIDE STRET IN DETROIT AND MOVING INTO THE BACK OF THE

PLYMOUTH HE REZOVED THE THREE PACKAGES

FROM BEHIND THE BACK SEAT BACK

HEST. MOVING BACK INTO THE FRONT SSAT OF THE PLYZOUTH ROUAL GAVE ME

APPROXIMATELY $1.500.00 IN MIXED CURRENCY HOWEVER, OFFERING SOME EXCUSE,

HE SAID HE WAS UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS ALTHOUGH E DID

AS URE ME HE WOULD BE ABLE TO COME BY THE PAPERS AT A LATER DATE. HE ALSO

SUGGESTED I DISPOSE OF THE OLD PLYMOUTH THEN WE WOULD PURCHASE A LATER

HH 55032 •Do0Id:32989740 Page 45

---

## Page 46

MODEL AUTONOBILE WIEN WE MET IN BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA. HE THEN TOLD MIS

HE WOULD WRITE ME IN C/O GENERAL DELIVERY BIPHINGHAM, ALABAMA, UNDER THE GALT :

NIE;

ALSO, HE GAVE ME A NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, TELEPHONE NUBER IF I

NEED TO CONTACT HIS. THEREAFTER I LEFT HIS AT THE BUS STATION AND DROVE

TO CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, WHEREIN A GAVE MY BROTHER, JERRY W. RAY, THE PLYMOUTH

AND CAUCAL A TRAL TO DEAL ARABARA.

ALABAMA. I ARRIVED IN BIRMTNGHAM ON

AUGUST 25, 1967, THE

EXT DAY I RONTED A ROCHS AT 2608 HIGHLAND AVENUE UNDER

THE NAME OF, ERIC S. CULT. THE FOLLOWING MONDAY AUGUST 28, 1967, I CHECKED

AT THE GENERAL DELIVER WINDO: IN THE MAIN POST OF ICS ENQUIRING ABOUT MAIL

ADDRESSED TO ERIC GALT

THE POSTAI CLERK ASK ME FOR LY MIDDLE INITIAL

AND WHEN I SUPPLIED THE LETTER S HE GAVE ME A LETTER FROM ROVAL,. IN THE

LETTER ROUAL ASK ME TO

T HIM AT TH

STARLITE CAFE, LOCATED DIRECTLY

ACROSS THE STREST FROM

HE POST OFFICE, THAT EVENING. LATER I MET HIM IN

THE STARLITE AND HE ASK ME TO TRY TO LOCATED FOR SALE A LATE MODEL AUTOLOBILE.

THE NEXT DAY I FOUND THROUGH A NEWSPAPER ADD A 1966 MUSTANG. THAT EVENING

I AGAIN MET ROUAL IN THE STARLITE AND DESCRIBED

THE MUSTANG TO HIM. HE SAID

IT SOUNDED

ALRIGHT AND THE NEXT MORNING HE GAVE

• MEL$2.000.00 WITH INSTRUCTIONS

TO BUY THS MUSTANG. LATER IN THE MORNING I TOOK ATAXI TO 701 SOUTH 48th

STRECT AND PURCHASED THE MUSTANG FROM IT'S OWNER,

MR. WILLIAM D. PAISLEY.

AFTEP. PURCHASING THE AUTOMOBILE I DROVE TO THE STARLITE CAFE, PICKED UP ROUAL,

AND FROS THE STARLITE ON TO THE RESIDENCE AT WAS STAYING AT ON HIGHLAND AVENUE,

PARKING ON A MALE IN FRONT OF THE RESIDENCE. BEFORE DEPARTING ROVAL ASK FOR,

AND I GAVE HIM, A SET OF KEYS TO THE MUSTANG; HE ALSO WROTE DOWN MY ADDRESS &

PHONE NUMBER HE THEN GAVE ME $500.00 FOR 'LIVING EXPELSES, AND ANOTHER

$500.00 FOR A LIST OF CAMERA EQUIPMENT. LASTLY, HE GAVE ME ANOTHER TELEPHONE

NUMBER LISTED IN BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA, AS A "BACK UP" NUMBER, AND SUGGESTED

I LAY LOW FOR A MONTH OR SO THEN HE WOULD CONTACT ME ABOUT THE BUSINESS AT HAND

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 46

---

## Page 47

• AND THS KATTER OF TRAVEL, DOCUVENTS FOR ME.

DURING MY STAY IN BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, I RENTED A BANK VAULIE ACCUVULATED

IDENTIFICATION UNDER THE GALT NAME, AND MADE THE CAMERA PURCHASES ROVAL

REQUESTED. I HAD ALSO CONTACTED A LINGERING VIRUS, APPARINTLY IN CANADA,

AND HAS TREATED FOR THE AILMENT BY A DR. SCHWARTZ IN, BIRMINGHAM. SUB-

SEQUENTLY I WAS CORTAGTO EX BOUAL'S APPARENT ROPHESENIAITUE ASKING ME

TO MEET ROUAL IN NEW ORLANS, LOUISISANA, IN EARLY OCTOBER, 1967. ON OF

ABOUT OCTOBER 6, 1967,

IDSPARTED BIRMINGHAM, ALABLYA, IN ROUTE TO NEW

ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, INTELING TO ME IT ROUAL IN, NEW ONLEANS. THE NEXT DAY,

OR THE DAY AFTER, UPON ARRIVING IN BATON

OUCE, LOUISIANA, I PHONED THE

BATON ROUGE NUMBEF ROUAL HAD GIVEN ME; UNABLE TO

EACH THE PARTY I THEN

PHONES THE NEW ORLEANS NUMBER AND DID REACH THIS PAR

I WAS TOLD TO

PROCEED ON TO NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO, AND WAS GIVEN THE

KAME & ADDRESS OF A.

MOTEL TO CHECK INTO AFTEL: ARPIVING IN NUEVO LAREDO. BEFORE LEAVING BATON

ROUGE I MAILED BACK TO THE BIRMINGHAM BANK THE SAFETY DEPÖSIT VAULT KEY

ASSUMING I WOULD NOF BE RETURNING TO BIRMINGHA, ALABAMA.

UPON LEAVING

BATON HOUCE FOR MEXICO I BRIEFLI IRAVELED IN THE DIRDCTIONIOE DALIAS, TEXAS,

INTENDING TO SEE AN INDIVIDUAL WHO WAS CONVERSANT WITH UNDERWORLD ACTIVITIES

ALONG THE BORDEN SUPERATING THE UNITED STATES FROM MEXICO, HOWEVER, I SUB-

SEQUENTLY DECIDED AGAINST THE DALLAS IRI AND THEREFORE TURNED TOWARD SOUTH

TEXAS & MEXICO. I ARRIVED IN NUEVO LAREDO, MEXICO, ON OR ABOUT OCTOBER 7,

1967, IN THE EVENING. UPON ENQUIRY FROM A POLICEMAN OR CAB DRIVER I

LOCATED THE MOTEL I WAS EARLIER INSTRUCTED TO CHECK INTO. AFTER I HAD

SIGNED INTO THE MOTEL AND WAITED A COUPLE HOURS ROVAL APPEARAD ASKING

HOW I HAS GETTING ALONG AND IF READY FOR BUSINESS. HE ASK IF I HAD A VISA

AND I REPLIED "NO. HE THEN SAID WE WOULD CROSS THE BORDER INTO THE UNITED

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 47

---

## Page 48

STATES AND TRANSPORT IN THE MUSTANG CERTAIN ITEMS INTO MEXICO. LAVING

THE MOTEL WE DROVE DOIN TO THE LOCAL SQUARE WHERE I LET HIM OUT. HE SAID

TO GIVE HIM A FEN MINUTES TO CATCH A TAXI THEN TO MEET HIM ON THE OTHER

SIDE OF THE BORDER. PICKING HIM UP ON THE OTHER SIDB HE DIRECTED ME

NORTH FOR MAYBE 7 OR & BLOCKS, THEN WEST FOR A COUPLE MILES ENDING UP

ON A SIDE STRET BEHIND HICCHER AUTOMOBILEND BSSIDE A PRAVE HOUSE. HE

THEN RIMOVED A TIRE FROM

THE OTHER AUTOMOBILE, PLACED IT IN THE TRUNK OF

OUR MUSTANG, AND DIRECTED

ME BACK TOWARD MEXICO. ON THE WAY TO THE MEXICAN

CUSTOMS HE TOLD BE TO APPLE FOR A VISA AND WARN GUSTONS OF: ICIALS CORMANCEO

SEARCHING THE MUSTANG GIVE

THEM EACH A DOLLAR AND THEY WOULD THEN ONLY MAKE

НАИСТАТЙ

A PERFUNCTORY SEARCH. WHEN WE NEARED

THU

MEXICAN CUSTOS'S HOUSE ROVAL

GOT OUT OF THE MUSTANG SAYING TO PICK HIM UP ENHER BESIDE OR IN FRONT OF:

THE CUSTOM 'S HOUSE AFTER I GOT THE VISA. I THEN

APPLIED FOR THE VISA. THE

PEPISON WHO ISSUED THE VISA ASK FOR A VOTER REGISTARATION SLIP FOR IDENTIFICA-

TION, BUT ACCEPTED A DRIVERS LICENSE & PUNK SLIP (TITLE

IN LIEU. WHEN

THIS CUSTOMS OFFICIA COMINCED SZARCHING THE MUSTANG & FACING A CUSTOMS

MARK ON THE ITEMS

ENCLOSED I GAVE THEM EACH A DOLLAR AND

THEY WAIVED ME

THROUGH. AFTER LEAVING CUSTOM'S I PICKED UP ROUAL BESIDE THE BUILDING AND

WE RETURNED TO THE MOTEL BY A CIRCUITOUS ROUTE.

I FULLED INTO THE MOTEL

DRIVEWAY AND THE TIRE WAS REMOVED AND PLACED IN THE AUTOMOBILE IT WAS

ORIGINALLY RELOVED FROM EARLIER ON. ROUAL TOLD ME HE WOULD SEE ME AGAIN IN

THE MORNING, AND AS I BACKED OUT OF THE DRIVEWAY I BRIEFLY SAW THE PROFILE

OF THE PERSON DRIVING THE OTHER AUTOMOBILE. THE NEXT MORNING ROUAL SHOWED

UP, ASK IF I WERE READY, AND UPON AN AFFIRMATIVE REPIT, I CHECKED OUT OF

THE MOTEL. UPON LEAVING HE RODE WITH ME FOR ABOUT 6 BLOCKS, THEN HE GOT

HH 5503INTO ANOTHERE AUMOM@BILE AFTER TELLING ME TO FOLLOW THE OTHER CAR. ONCED

---

## Page 49

OUTSIDE THE CITY WE STOPPED AND AGAIN THE TIRE WAS PLACID IN HY

AUTONOBILE WITH ROVAL TELLING HE TO FOLION HIM UNTIL WE HAD CIRARED

THE INTERIOR CUSTON'S HOUSE. ABOUT FIFTY KILCHEPERS FURTHER ON WR

ENTERED THE CUSTON'S CHECK. ROUAL'S CAR WAS HELD UP; HOWEVER, AFTER

CHEACKING MY BACK TAG I WAS WAIVED ON THROUGH BY THE INSPECTOR. LATER

A COUPLE KILONETARS DOWN THE ROAD ROUAL PASSED ME AND STOPPED IN FRONT

DE THE MUSTANGO FOUAL OI INTO THE MUSTANG AND OFFERED SORE TIPS OF

APOLOGY ABOUT STILLIK

BINGUABLE TO ONE-B'-FRAVES BOOMENTS- FOR

ME; HOWSVER, HE GAVE

$2.000.00. HE THEN ASK'ME, IF AND WHERE HE COULD

MEET ME IN THE FUTURE.

• I TOLD HIM I MOST LIKELY WOULD TRAVEL TO LOS

ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; HIS SAID THEN HE WOULD CONTACT ME THERE THROUGH

POST BY GIGRAL DELIVERO

.. HE ALSO GAVE ME ANOTHET NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,

TELEPHONE NUMBER AND ASK IF

I AS HE DUD-NEN ORLEANS NU-BER - I THINK

I GAVE THE OLD NUMBSH TO HIM.

TRAVILING THECUGH MEXICO I ULTIMATELY ENDED UP IN

PUERTO VALLERTA.

DURING MY STAY IN PUERTO VALLERTA I ATTENTED TO TRADE THE MUSTANG FOR

A PIECE OF REAL ESTATE PROPERTY, THUS STAY IN LERICO,

ADVERTISEMENT IN THE U.S. NEWS AND WORLD REPORT NEVIS

i AGAZINE ASKING

FOR PERSONS INTERESTED TO MAKE APPLICATION FOR IINIGRATION TO RHODESIA

I WROTE

TO THE ADDRESS LIST FOR INFORMATION ABOUT THE MATTER BUT NEVER

RECEIVED

REPLY WHILE IN MEXICO.

I DEPARTED PUERTO VALLERTA, MEXICO, ON

OR ABOUT NOVEMBER 15, 1967,

TRAVEL ING NORTH TONARBUTHE UNITED STATES. ON THE WAY I GAVE A

HITCH HIKER A RIDE TO THE BORDER. AFTER ARRIVING NEAR THE BURDER

SEPERATING MEXICO FROM THE UNITED STATES I STAYED OVER NIGHT IN A

MOTEL AT TIJUANA. THE NEXT DAY IN PREPARING TO LEAVE THE MOTEL FOR

THE UNITED STATES, AS WAS MY PRACTICE, I SEARCHED THE MUSTANG. DOWN

17H7 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 49

---

## Page 50

BETWEEN THE FRONT SEAT & THE GEAR BOX I FOUND A CIGARETTE

CASE WITH A PACK OF CIGARETT'S IN THE CASB. INSIDE BETHBON THE

CASE & THE PACK WAS A BUSINESS CARD. THE NAME AND MOST OF THE

ACCOMPANYING INFOFMATION HAD BEEN INKED OUT. WHAT I COULD SES THAT

WAS STILL PARTLY VISIBLE WAS THE NAME "NEW ORLEANS" & THE LETTERS "JELA".

ON THE BACK SIDE OF THE CAFD WAS THE HAND-UR TETEN MALE OF, RANDOLPH

ERMIN ROSEN RETAINIS THE CAND I CROSSED THE BORDER INTO THE UNITE

STATES. ( IN THE" SEPTEMBER 1977 ISSUE OF PLAYBOY MAGAZINE, PLAYBOY

REPORTED THAT IN 1967

RAA WAS NOT IN EXISTENCE; HOLIVER, UPON ENQUIRY

BY A PARTY REPRESENTINGIE, LEAA, OFFICES IN WASHINGTON D.C. STATED

THAT PRIOR TO 1968 A FORE-RUNNER TO LEA: TITLED, ?, HAS IN EXISTENCE

AND OPERATED IN, NEW CRUZANS.

UPON REQUEST THE LATE MR. CLYDE

WATTS, AN ATTORNE WITH OFFICES IN OKLAHON

CHIT, OKLAHOMA, INVESTIGATED,

IN 1974, AND REPORTED THEREAFTER, THAT RANDOLPH ERWIN ROSEN, HAS IN FACT,

RANDOLPH ERWIN POSENSON).

ON NOVEMBER 19, 1967, I ARRIVED IIN LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, AND RENTED

AN APARTIENT LOCATED AT 1535 NORTH SERRANO AVENUIS. THEN LATER, ON

JANUARY 19, 1967, I MOVED TO 5533 HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD RESIDING THERE

UNTIL ABOUT MARCH 17, 1968. -

DURING MY STAY IN LOS ANCILES, CALIFORNIA I MADE THE FOLLOWING ATTRAPIS

TO FIND EMPLOYMENT.

1) PLACED AN ADD IN THE "HELP WANTED" SECTION OF THE

LOS ANGELES TIMES NEWSPAPER.

2) CONTACTED THE "BIG BRARM RESORT IN THE INTERIOR OF

CALIPORNIA.

3) TOOK A BAR TENDERING COURSE.

TH 55032 DocId: 32989740 ' Page 50

p. 17•

---

## Page 51

4) APPLIED AT TWO HOTEI FOR EMPLONMENT.

5) FILLED OUT AN APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYWENT WITH THE

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE.

I MADE THE FOLLO:ING ENQUIRES & ACTS IN AN ATTEMPT TO LEAVE THE

UNITED STATES:

1) AFTER READING IN THE LOCAL NEWSPAPER THAT UNITED STATES

CITIZENS COULD TRAVEL TO COLLBIA, SOUTH AMERICA, WITHOUT A PASSPORI,

І СНЕСКВО ПИТО ТИЧТАТЕЛО

2) CONTACTED

SEVERAL ORCANIZATIONS 'ABOUT INFORMATION

PERTAINING TO RHODESIAN TIGRATION.

3) PHONED THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD SEVERAL TIMES

ENQUIRING ABOUT THE PROCEDURE TO FOLDON

IN ORDER TO GAIN MERCHANT

SEAMAN'S PAPERS - IN THIS RESPECT, I HAD MINOR PLASTIC SURGERY

ON MY NOSE IN MARCH• 1968 PERFORMED BY , DR. RUSSELL HADLEY, IN

ORDER THAT I MIGHT CHANGE MY APPEARANCE ENOUGHT

IF I NEED A PICTURE DON THE MISCHANT SHAN PARADO I

TO AVOID IDENTIFICATION

IN BALY DECRABER 1967 I CHECKED AT THE GANSRAL DIVERY SBOTION, MAIN

POST OFFICE, TO SES IF ROUAL HAD POSTED ANY MESSAGES; FINDING THAT HE

HAD NOT SENT A COVAUNICATION-I PHONED NEW ORLEANS UNDER THE NUMBER HE

HAD GIVEN ME

IN MEXICO. THE PERSON THAT

ANSHERED ENQUIRED IF I COULD

TRAVEL TO NEN OFLIANS IN LAIS DECRIBER.

I REPLIED IN THE POSITIVE AND

THERLAFTER MADE ARRANGIANTS WITH A, CHARLEY STEIN, WHOM I HAD MET IN A

LOCAL BAR, TO HELP WITH THE DRIVING TO NEW ORLEANS. WHEN MR. STEIN—&HO

WAS HABITUALLY SHORT OF MONEY-AND I WERE READY TO LEAVE FOR NEW ORLEANS,

ABOUT DECERBER 15, 1967, HE ASK TO USE MY TELEPHONE IN ORDER TO NOTIFY

p. 18

if "

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 "Page 51

---

## Page 52

HIS FAMILY IN NEW ORLEANS OF HIS PENDING VISIT. DURING THE TRIP I

PHONED MY BROTHER, JERNY WRAY, QNE TIE. OTHER THAN MR. ST&IN BUSYING

HI'SELE LOCKING FOR FLYING SAUCERS, NOTHING ELSE OF INTEREST TRANSPIRED

ON THE TRIP UNTIL WE REACHED NEN ORLEANS. UPON REACHING THE CITY I

DIALED THE PHONE NUMBER ROUAL HAD PROVIDED ME WITH IN MEXICO; ARRANGED

A MESTING WITH HIS IN THE LE BUNNY LOUNGE QU GANAL STREDT, AND DURING

THE SUBSEQUENT MESTING IN THE LOUNGE ROVAL TOLD ME THAT IN EANLY MAX HE

WAITEO TO TRANSITE SONE RILES INTO MORICO AND NOR NE TO HIP IT. HE

SAID THERE WOULD BE ABQUT $12.000 IN IT FOR ME IN ADJITION TO THE

USUAL PROMISE OF TRAVEL E

DOCUMENTS. I AGRE-I TO HIS PROPOSITION BUT TOLD

HI! I WAS LON ON FUNDS

SUBSEQUENTLY HE GAVE ME &500.00 IN THENTY DOLLAI

NOTES.

RETURNING TO LOS ANGIES I MOVED TO THE AFO.

SENT IONED HOLLYWOOD

BOULEVARD ADDRESS, RESIDING THERE WHEN IN FEBRUARY 1968 I RECEIVED A

WRITIEN COMUNICATION FROM HOUAL ASKING ME TO

MEET HIM IN NEW BRIEANS,

LOUISIANA, ON A CERTAIN DAY IN MARCH, FOR A TRIPETO ATLANTA, GEORGIA,

AND

TO

ACKNOWLEDGE THE COMMUNICATION. I ACKNOWLEDGED BY TELEPHONE THAT

I WOULD BE IN NEN ORLEANS ON THE DATE REQUESTED

OTHER POSSIBLE INTEREST TO THE COMMITTEE, DURING MY STAY IN THE LOS

ANGELES

I WAS ROBBED DE A WATCH & THE TOYS IO THE MUSTANG OUIS IDE

OF A BAR ON HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD, CONSESUEITTEY I HAD TO HIRE A LOCK-

SMITH TO MAKE ME ANOTHER SET OF KEYS. I DID CORDABY SOME ADDRES JES THROUGH

UNDERGROUND PUBLICATIONS ADVERTISING UNATTACHED FEMALES; LATER I DID USE

ONE OF THESES ADDRESSE'S (SB$ BELON). I NEVER ATTEPTED TO CONTACT ANY

OF THE PERSONS LISTED UNDER THE ADVERTISE INTS EXCEPT ONE, WHO LISTED

HERSLE AS A "NYMPHO SOMETHING"-OF COURSE I HAD BEEN IN JAIL SIX YEARS.

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 52

p. 19

---

## Page 53

ON OR ABOUT NARCH 17, 19E9, I DEPARTID LOS ANGELES FOR NEW ORLEANS,

LOUISIANA. APPARONILY I WAS LATE. IN ARRIVING IN NEH ORLEANS: IN

CALLING THE PARTY UNDER THE APORZAENTIONED NUMBER I VAS TOLD TO

DRIVE ON TO BINHINGHAM, ALABAMA, AND MBET ROJAL IN THE STARLITE

CAFE. ARRIVING IN BIRMINGHAM AND ENTERING THE STARLITE, AGAIN SOME-

WHAT LATE, I MET ROVAL AND WE PROCE-DED ON TO ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

ARRIVING IN ATLANTA VE COMENCED SEARCHING-POR IN PARTIENT FINALLY

LOCATING A ROCH FOR PANT AT 113 14th STREST, NORTHEAST; HOMEVER,

BECAUSE OF THE INTOXIÇATED CONDITION OF THE PROPRIETOR I HAD A

PROBLEM RENTING THE ROCH AND, BECAUSE OF THE DELAY, ROUAL BRIBFLY ENTERED

THE "OFFICE". AFTEH THE RENTAL WE WENT TO A RESTAURANT ON PEACHTRER

•STREST FOR A MEAL, AND HAILE IN THE RESTAURANT MADE ARRANGIENTS FOR

ROVAL TO MEDT ME AT THE RECENTLY RENTED POOM THE NEXT DAY. THE NEXT '

DAY, ROUAL CAME TO THE ROOM I HAD RUNTED (NEXT DOOR TO THE PROPRIETOR'S'".

OF: ICE), AND THE CONVERSATION WAS A REFUN OF THE PREVIOUS EVENING'S

CONVERSATION IN THE PEACHTREE STREST RESTAURANT. IN ESSENCE, I WAS

TO PURCHASE RIFLES IN ATLANTA TO BE LATER SHOWN TO PROSPECTIVE

BUYERS.

EUT BECAUSE OF AN IUINIFICATION PROBLE, ALL OF ME DANTICA

TION WAS

LISTED UNDER THE STATE OF ALABAMA; I SUGGESTED HE PURCHASE

THE RIFLES

IN ALABAMA, WHICH ROUAL AGREED NO DO. UPON IRAVING RONAL

SUGGESTED I

: STAY CLOSE TO THE ROOS SINGE HE WOULD RETURN IN A COUPLE DAYS

AND THEN WANTED ME TO DRIVE HIM TO MIAMI, FLORIDA-HOWEVER HE NEVER DID

APPEAR FOR THE MIAMI TRIP.

AFTER ABOUT A WESK ROVAL DID APPEAR AND WE DROVE TO BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA,

TO IMPLEMENT WHAT WE HAD PREVIOUSLY AGREED TO. I CHECKED INTO THE TRAVEL

LODGE IN BIRMINGHAM; WE THEN CHECKED THROUGH THE YELLOW PAGES OF THE

55032 PHONE B20KS AP PESCAPE LEWSPAPERS, FOR AN ESTABLISHIENT THAT SOLD RIFLES,

---

## Page 54

DSCIDING ON THE APROVARINE SUPPLY COMPANY. SUBSEQUENTLY I DID PURCHASE

A RIFLE WITH MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS AT ABROARINE. AFTER THE

PURCHASE ROUAL GAVE ME THE NAME OF A MOTEL, (NEW REBEL ), IN

MEPHIS, TENNESSES, TELLING ME TO TRANSPORT THE RIFLE TO THE

MOTZL AND MET HIM THERE AL A CERTAIN DANST APRIL 3, 1968),

AND TIME, SATTIC

HE, IN THE INTERVAL, HAD TO MAKE A BUSINESS TRIP

TO NEN ORLEANS, LOUISIANA.

THEREAFTER, COUNCING ON MARCH 29, 1968, THE DAY I PICKED UP THES

RIFLE, I TRAVELED IN THE DIRECTTON OF MIMPHIS, TENNESSEE. SUBSEQUENTLY

I RENTED ROOMS

FLORENCE, ALABAMA;

CORINTH, MISSISSIPPI; DESOTO,

MIS: ISSIPPI, AND OTHER MOTEL ADDRESSES THAT I CANNOT RECALL ALTHOUGH

•I AS UM THE FOB.I. HAS THE ADDRESSES. I DIDNOT AT ANY TIME DEVIATE

FROM THE AFOREMENTIONED ROUTE AND SPECIFICALL

I DID NOT RETURN TO •

ATLANTA, GEOGIA, AFTER DEPARTING BIKMINGHAM,

ALABAMA, ON MARCH 29,

1968, UNTIL APRIL 5, 1968.

I ARRIVED IN THE SUBURBS OF MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE

ON APRIL 2, 1968,

AND CHECKED INTO THE NEW REBEL MOTEL IN MEPHIS PROPER ON APRIL 3,

1968. 1E CONNIE RAINING THAT EVENING AND AT APPROXITHATIAY 9:00RM

HOUAL APPEARED AT THE ROOS I WAS OCCUPYDNE

p. 21

HH 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 54

---

## Page 55

ROUAL TOLD ME IT WOULD BE NECESSARY TO TAKE A ROD FOR A FEE DAYS IN

• HELPHIS. HE ALSO INFORMED ME HE HAD A PLACE LOCATED NEAR THR HATERFRONT

AND THAT HE OR I, OR BOTH, WOULD RENT A ROCH AT THE LOCATION IN MY NAME.

I TOLD ROVAL THAT I DID NOT CARE TO HAVE MY NAME USED IF THERE WERE GOING

TO BE ANY GUNS IN THE PLACE, OR IF WE WERE INVOLVED IN SOLIETHING WE COULD

POSSIBLY BS ARRESTED POR THE SUGGESTED A HAMS, JOHN WILLARD, THAT I

HAD USED INDIRECILY CUCRO BEPORE, THUS A NAME I COULD EASILY REMBER,

THAT WE COULD USE TO

MET A ROCH UNDER. POUAL ACREED TO USE THE WILLARD

WINS. HIS THEN COMMOD

THAT IF IYRRYTHING PROGRESSED ALRIGHT THEN HE & I

WOULD RETURN TO BIPMINGHAM, ALABAMA, AND

URCHASE 10 OR MORE OF THE SCOPED:

RIFLES, IN ADDITION TO A LARGE SUPPLY OF THE

BOREIGN BRAND RIFLES THAT I

HAD LOOKED OVER IN THE GUN STORE IN BIRMINGHAM•

IE IMPLIED THAT AFTER WE

HAD PURCHASED THE FIREARMS THEY HOULD BE SHIPPED

TO NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA,

BY BOAT. BEFORE DEPARTING ROUAL TOLD ME TO MBET

W1 AT THE 422Z SOUTH-

MAIN STREET ADDRESS AT 3 Or 4 PM THE NEXT DAY.

WROTE DOWN THE ADDRESS

ON A SLIP OF PAPER AND I WROTE DOWN FOR HIM THE WILLARD NAME TO USE IF HE

SHOULD BENT A ROCH FOR ME OR HIMSELF. HE MENTIONED THAT IF HS WERE NOT IN

A ROOM

AT THE SOUTH MAIN STREET ADDRESS WHEN I

ARRIVED HE WOULD BE IN A

BAR & GRILL LOCATED ON THE GROUND FLOOR OF THE BUILDING. HE THEN TOOK THE

RIFLE AND DEPÄRIED AND THAT WAS THE LAST

TIME I SAW THE WEAPON. THE NEXT

DAY I DID NOT CHECK OUT OF THE MOTEL UNTIL LATE MORNING. AFTER HAVING

BREAKFAST AT A NEARBY PESTAURANI I DROVE TO THE SOUTH PART OF MEPHIS (I

MAY HAVE BEEN IN MISSISSIPPI) AND WAITED A PERIOD OF TIME IN A BEER HOUSE

AND GENERALLY JUST STALIRD UNTIL TIME FOR THE RENDEZVOUS WITH ROUAL AT 422%

SOUTH MAIN STREET. FINALLY I DROVE TO A COMMERCIAL PARKING LOTS AFTER

CHECKING THE MUSTANG INTO THE LOT, AND RECEIVING DIRBCTIONS FROM THE PARKING

LOT ATTENDANT TO THE LOCATION OF MAIN STREST, I THEN COMMENCED WALKING IN

H# 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 55

P. 22

---

## Page 56

A CENERAL DIRECTION TOWARD WHAT APPRARED TO BB THE HAT SECTION OF LENCHIS.

FURTHER ON, WITH THE ASSISTANCE OF A POLICEMAN, I LOCATED MATI STRUST AND

TRAVELING SOUTH ON MAIN I MADE AT LEAST ONE INQUIRY IN BARS CONCERNING THE

422& SOUTH MAIN SIRBET AUDRESS; ONE OF THE PLACES OF INQUIRY HAY HAVE BEEN A

"JI!'S BAR", AFTER I HAD LOCATED THE APPARENT ADDRESS OF THE SOUTH HAD STREET

BUILDING I HAD BEEN SARCHING FOR, AND KHICH 1UT JIM'S CRILI* ON THE CAOUND

FLOOR; I ENTERED THE

BAR/CRILI, LOOKING FOR ROUAL, HE WAS NOT IN THE ESTABLISH-

MENT; HONSVER, I DID NORICE THO WHITE MALES THAT I HAD PREVIOUSLY SBON IN

ONE OF THE BARS I HAD JUST REPANILY BEEN IN MAKING INQUIRES CONCERNING THE

ADDRESS I WAS SEARCHING FOR. ONE OF IT

THO INDIVIDUALS APPELRED TO BE

NOTICING ME MORE THAN WAS NECESSARY.: (I AM CERIAIN THAI I DID NOT MEDI ROVAI

IN JIM'S GRILL THE FIRST TIME I ENTERED THE

TABLISHENT BECAUSE OF THE

CROWDED CONDITIONS, UNLIKE THE SECOND, AND THE

TO INDIVIDUALS IN THE BAR

WHO WERE NOT PRESENT WHEN I DID MEET ROVAL) • I ORDERED A BEER AND SHORTLY

THERZAFTER DEPARTED THE TAVERN GOING UPSTAIRS TO

INQUIRE ABOUT RENTING A ROOM

UPON INQUIRY THE PROPRIETRESS INFORMED ME SHE HAD TWO ROOMS TO LET AND SHOWED

ME BOTH OF THEM. SINCE THE SECOND WAS ONLY A SIAS:PING ROOM I RENTED IT PAYING

WITH A $20.00 BILL, AFTER SIGNING THE REGISTRY UNDER THE NAME OF JOHN WILLARD.

THE ONLY OTHER PERSON I SAW, OR EVER SAW EXCEPT ROULA, IN THE ESTABLISHMENT,

WAS AN ELDERLY WHITE MALE WHO WAS IN THE PROPRIZTRESS "OFFICE" WHEN I FIRST

INQUIRED ABOUT THE ROOM• IMMEDIATELY UPON RETAINING THE ROOM I LEFT THE

BUILDING TO RETURN TO THE PARKING LOT TO PICK UP THE MUSTANG; IT HAS NOW

APPROXIMATELY 4:00PM BECAUSE OF MY DELAY IN LOCATING THE SOUTH MAIN STREET

ADDRESS. RETURNING TO THE PARKING LOT, WHICH I ESTIMATE WAS ONE MILE FROM

THE 422Z SOUTH MAIN STREET ADDRESS, I PICKED UP THE MUSTANG AND SUBSEQUENTLY

PARKED THR AUTOMOBILE ALMOST DIRECTLY IN LINE WITH THE FRONT ENTRANCE OF

JIL'S GRILL, AND IMMEDIATELY BHIND ANOTHER AUTOMOBILE. I DID NOT MOVE THE

MUSTANG AGAIN UNTIL APPROXIMATELY 5340PH THE SAME DAY. ( I LATER NOTICED UPON

MH 55032

DocId: 32989740 Page 56

= 2z

---

## Page 57

LEAVING THE, POOMING HOUSE ON ONE OF SEVERAL OCASSIONS THAT THIRB HURB

SEVERAL OTHER AUTONOBILES PARKED NEARBY THE SAME COLOR AS THS MUSTANG, A

WHITISH COLOR).

UPON ENTERING JIM"S GRILL FOR THE SECOND TIMS, I FOUND THAT THE INDIVIDUAE

CALLING HIMSELF ROUAL HAS PRESENT. THIS TIME THE BAR WAS NOT SO CROWDED

AND ROUAL, WAS SITTING IN THE LUNCH-COUNTER SECTION DRINKING COFFER. AFTER

THE AMENITIES I

HIM TRAD SOME DIFPICULTY LOCATING THE ROOMING HOUSE

UPSTAIRS. WE DEPARTED ALMOST IMEDIATELY WHEN HE SUGGESTED WE CO UPSTAIRS

TO THE ROOM I HAD RENTED. ON THE WAY OUT OF THE GRILL HE ASK ME IF I HAD THE

MUSTANG WITH ME; I FOINTED TO IT SAYING "THERE IT IS"• ONCED UPSTAIRS IN

THE ROOM I HAD RENTED ROUAL BULGESTEDZE BRING WHAT PERSONAL ITEMS I HAD IN

THE MUSTANG UP TO THE ROOM SAYING HE MAY

HAVE TO STAY HERE 3 Or 4 DAYS™.

HE ALSO ASKED ME TO PURCHASE A PAIR OF BINOCUIRS WITH INFRA-RED ATTACHMENIS

SAYING THE "PEOPLE" ALSO WANTED TO EXAMINE SOME

GLASSES. ROUAL GAVE ME

DIRECTIONS TO A NBARBY SPORTING GOODS STORE WHEREIN I COULD PURCHASE THE

GLASSES. LEAVING THE ROOMING HOUSE I HAS UNABLE TO, LOCATE THE SPORTING GOODS

STORE THE FIRST TRIP. RETURNING ROVAL AGAIN EXPLAINED TO ME THE LOCATION •

OP THE SPORTING COODS STORE. (UPON RETURNT TO HE BOH AFTER THE PERSI

TREE LOOKING FOR THE SPORTING GOOD STORE, I RELOVED

A SMALL TRAVELING CASE

FROM THE MUSTANG, CONTAINING PERSONAL ITEMS

AND DEPOSITED THE CASE IN THE

ROOM ; HOWEVER, BECAUSE I HAS SOMEWHAT CONVERSANT WITH THE TYPE ESTABLISHMENT

I WAS IN, WHAT WITH NO LOCKS ON THE DOORS, OR EVEN DOOR NOBS, JUSI A STRAP IO

PULL, THE DOOR TO, AND THE PLACE AN APPARENT HABITAI FOR WIND'S WHEREIN ANYONE

COULD ENTER ANYONE ELSE'S RENTAL AT WILL, I DID NOT CARRY ANY OTHER PERSONAL

ITEMS TO THE ROO OTHER THAN THE AFORESENTIONED CASE & IT'S CONTENTS EXCEPT

A COVER WHICH I USED TO COVER THE COLERING ALREADY ON THE BED. I PLACED THE

CASE UNDER THE BED) •

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 57

p. 24

---

## Page 58

HH 55032

ON THE SECOND TRIP SPEKING THE SPORTINGS COODS STORE I LOSATED IT. UPON

INQUIRY THE SALESHAN INFORVED ME THAT THE STORE DID NOT CARRY INFRA-PED

ATTACHIEATS FOR BINOCULARS AND THAT I WOULD HAVE TO PURCHASE THEM AT AN

ARMY SURPLUS STORE; HOWEVER THE SALESHAN DID SELL ME BINOGULARS. ON THE

WAY BACK TO THE ROOMING HOUSE I STOPPED AT A DRUGSTORE ON THE GROUND FLOOR

OF THE CHISC HOTEL AID ORDERED FOR EIRAN ATTING ON THE ORDER I

SAI, AS CUSTOMARY, DIRECTLY ACROSS PROM THE CASH REGISTER AND DISTINGILY

DESAL THE APART MARACER, WHO HAS A NATE MAN, INSTAUGEDIE A XONE

BLACK WOMAN ON THE INTRIACIDS OF USING A CASH REGISTER, THUS I ASSUM SHE

HAD JUST STARTED: WORKING IN THE STORZ THAT DAY. ( THE ATTORNEYS REPRESENT-

ING ME IN THE KING CASE IN 1968-69 WERE

UNABLE TO LOCATE THE DRUGSTORE IN

QUESTION; HOWEVER, IN FEBRUARY 1969 I DESCRIBED ID A POLICEMAN, ZO WAS

GUARDING NE IN THE MPHIS JAIL CELL, THE APPROXILATE LOCATION OF THE STORE

AND HE INFORMED ME THE NAME OF THE STORE).

AFTER RETURNING TO THE MAIN SIREST ROOMING HOUSE I TOLD ROUAL HE HOULD

HAVE TO PURCHASE THE INFRA-RED ATTACHVENTS AT AN ARMY SURPLUS STORE; I ALSO

INFORMED HIM THAT I HAD NOT EATEN SINCE BREAKFAST.

HE SAID TO GO OUT AND

HAVE A MEAL & TAKE IN A MOVIE SINCE HE WANTED TO SEE SOME POPLE IN PRIVATE

THAT EVENING BUT A

TO LEAVE THE MUSTANG OUT IN FXONT AS HE WOULD HOST LIKELY

NEED IT THAT EVENING OR NIGHT.

I THEN WENT DOWN STAIRS INTO JI'S CRILI

AND ORDERED A BEER ALTHOUCH I DID NOT DRINK IT.. •I SAY THIS BECAUSE I RECALL

SEEING A WHITZ WAITRESS ON ONE OCASSION WHILE I WAS IN THE ESTABLISHUENT,

AND ON THE NEXT OCASSION THERE WAS A BLACK WAITRESS ON DUTY. LEAVING THE

GRILI, I SAT IN THE MUSTANG 10 Or 15 MINUTES BEFORE TRAVELING NORTH ON MAIN

STREBT AND ENTERING A BAR & RESTAURANT LOCATED ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE OF THE

STREBT AND FAIRLY NEAR TO A MOVIE HOUSE ACROSS THE STRRET. I ORDERED A

DocId: 32989740 Page 58

p. 25.

---

## Page 59

SANDWICH AND WHILE SITTING THERE RECALLED THAT I HAD CHANCED THE BACK

REAR TIRE ON THE RIGHT SIDE, WHEN PACING THE FRONT OF THE MUSTANG, THE

DAY BEFORE, AFTER THE TIRE HAD DEVELOPED A SION LEAK. THINKING THE DAMAGED

TIRE SHOULD BZ FIXED, BSPECIALLY IF THE MUSTANG SHOULD BE USED THAT NIGHT, I

RETURNED TO THE MUSTANG AND DROVE IT NORTH ON MAIN STRRET FOR MAYBE 3 Or 4

BLOCKS BEFORE TURNING RIGHT AND TRAVELING 4 OR 5 MORE BLOCKS TO A SERVICE

STATION. THERE WERZ 2 OR 3 SERVICE STATIONS AT THE INTERSECTION; I ENQUIRED

OF ONE IF THEY COULD PIX A SPIRE TIRED WHILE I WAITED AND WAS INFORMED THAT I

WOULD HAVE TO WAIT AWHILE BECAUSE OF THE BUSINESS VOLUME• MOVING TO THE OTHER

STATION I DO NOT RECALLE

ASKING FOR THE TIRE TO BE REPAIRED ALTHOUGH I DID HAVE

THE MUSTANG SERVICED. DON IRAVING THE SERVICE STATION I CIRCLED AROUND IN A

MANNER THAT WOULD RETURN ME TO THE ORIGINAI PARKING SPACE IN FRONT OF JIM'S GRILL;

HOWEVER, WHEN DRIVING ONTO MAIN STREET I SAW A POLICE CAR PARKED BLOCKING OFF

THE STREET THAT I WOULD HAVE TO DRIVE THROUGH IN ORDER IO RETURN TO MY ORIGINAL

PARKING SPACE, IN ADDITION I SAW WHAT APPEARED TO BE 2 OR 3 PROPLE RUNNING

OR WALKING RATHER FAST OPPOSITE THE POLICE CAR. I THEN VESRED OFF TO THE LEFT

TOWARD SOUTH MEMPHIS TRAVELING THROUGH WHAT APPEARED

BE A PREDOMINANTLY

BLACK COMMUNITY. I EVENTUALLY ENDED UP IN MISSISSIPPI

TRAVELING TOWARD NEW

ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, IT WAS MY INTENTION TO PHONE A NEW ORIRANS NUMBER IN MY

POSSESSION AND HAVE THE PARTY ON THE OTHER END ATTEMPT TO FIND OUT WHAT IF

ANYTHING HAD HAPPENED IN THE AREA OF THE

AFOREMENTIONED SOUTH MAIN STREET

ROOMING HOUSE; HOWEVER, SHORTLY AFTER ENTERING THE SIATE OF MISSISSIPPI I

HEARD OVER THE CAR RADIO THAT DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. HAD BEEN SHOT IN

MEMPHIS. A SHORT WHILE LATER ( APPROXIMATELY 15 MINUTES ), ANOTHER NEHS BULLETIN

ON THE RADIO STATED POLICE AUTHORITIRS WERE LOOKING FOR A WHITE MUSTANG & A

WHITE MALE SUBJECT AS A SUSPECT IN THE SHOOTING OF DR. KING CONSEQUENTLY THE

FIRST INTERSECTION I CAME TO I TURNED EAST TRAVELING TOWARD ATLANTA, GBORGIA,

p. 26

HH 55032 DooId:32989740 Page 59

---

## Page 60

V.½ WAY OF BIRMINGHAI, ALABAMA. SHORTLY AFTER TURNING REST I STOPPED

THE MUSTANG AND THREN VARIOUS ITEMS OF OF THE TRUNK INCLUDING ALL OF .

THE CAKERA EQUIPMENT THAT ROUAL HAD HAD ME TO PURCHASE FOR HIM-THE

EQUIPMENT WAS STILL IN THE ORIGINAL HRAPPING CASES WHEN I DISCARDED IT.

IT HAS RAINING SLIGHTLY AT THE TIME AND I TOOK A CLOTH AND ATTEMPTED TO

WIPE OFF ANY FINGERPRINTS I MAY HAVE LEPT ON THE OUTSIDE OF THE MUSTANG.

( SEVERAL YEARS LATER MY BROTHER, JERRY H. RAY, IOLD ME THAT IMEDIATELY

AFTER THE GUILTY PLEA THE MOPHIS ATTORNEX GENERAI, GAVE HIM THE DAMACD

TIRE & THE FLOOR MATS

FROM THE MUSTANG) •

THOREAFTER I DROVE THOUGH BIRUTIGHAM, ALABAMA, AND LATER INTO THE STATE

OF GEORGIA. APPROXIMATELY THIRTY (30) MI

IS FROM ATLANTA, GEORGIA, I RAN

LOW ON FUEL AND STOPPED AT A SERVICE STATION FOR GASOLINE. I ARRIVED IN

ATLANTA AT APPROXIMATELY 7:30AM• I ABANDONED THE MUSTANG IN A PRIVATE

PARKING LOT NEAR CAPITOL HOMES. I THEN RETURNED TO THE ROOM I HAD PREVIQUSLY

RENTED LOCATED AT 113 14th STREET, NORTHEAST. I PLACED EVERYTHING IN A CASE.

THAT IT HOULD HOLD AND DISCARED THE REMAINING ITEMS LEFT

IN THE ROOM. I

THEN WALKED TO THE PIEDIONT LAUNDRY WHEREIN I HAD LEFT SEVERAI ITES OF

CLOTHING TO BE CLEANED IN LATE MARCH OF 1968. I THEN PHONED A BUS STATION FOR

RESERVATIONS

TO DETROIT, MICHIGAN. BEING INFORMED

THAT A BUS WAS LEAVING

ATLANTA FOR DETROIT, MICHIGAN, THAI AFTERNOON

RETURNED TO THE ROOMING

HOUSE FOR THE CASE. I THEN DEPARTED THE BUILDING AND CAUGHT A TAXI CAB

TO THE BUS STATION WHEREIN I PURCHASED A TICKET TO DETROIT, MICHIGAN. THE

BUS WAS NOT DUE TO LEAVS ATLANTA FOR SEVERAL HOURS SO I CHECKED-IN THE GASE

AND TRAVELED SEVERAL BLOCKS FROM THE BUS STATION AND WAITED IN A BAR UNTIL

UNTIL DIP ARTURE TIR FOR THE BUS; HOWEVER, UPON RETURNING TO THE BUS STATION

I LEARNED THE BUS WOULD BE LATE IN IT'S DEPARTURE SCHEDULE. AFTER THE BUS

p. 2?

NH 55032 DooId:32989740 Page 60

---

## Page 61

DID DIPART FROM ATLANTA IT PROCEEDED ON TO CINCIRATI, CHIO, WITH A

LAYOVER IN THAT CITY FOR APPROXIMATELY TWO HOURS. DURING THE LAYOVER

I lATTED IN A NEARBY BAR UNTIL IT CLOSED AT 2:30AV, THAI I WAITED IN

TH& BUS TERMINAL ANOTHER 20 OR 30 MINUTES BEFORE THE BUS DEPARTED FOR

D-THOIT, MICHIGAN. ARRIVING IN DETROIT AT APPROXTYATELY 7:30AM. I

THEN MADE REGERVATIONS FOR A TRAIN BOUND FOR TORONTO, CANADA. BEFORE

LEAVING FOR THE CANADIAN SIDE OF THE BORDER I TOOK A TAXI CAB TO A

TRAIN STATION APPROXIHAELY TIE MILSS PROM DOWNTON DETROII. ADJACENT

TO THE TRAIN STATION WAS

AN OPEN SQUARE BLOCK (PARK) • DIRECTLY

ACROSS, DIAGONALLY, FROM THE TRAIN STATION, AND ACROSS THE OPEN LOT,

WAS A BARBER SHOP WHERISIN I HAD A SHAVE HAIRCUT•

p. 28

HW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 61

---

## Page 62

I ARRIVED IN TORONTON, CANADA, AI APPROXIMATELY 6:30 FM APRIL 6,

1968• AFTER CHECKING MY CASE INTO THE LUGGAGE DEPARTVANT I MADE

MY WAY WEST ON FOOT. AFTER WALYDIG APPROXIMATELY THO MILES, AND

MAKING ENQUIRES ALONG THE WAY FOR RENTAL QUARTERS, I EVENTUALLY

FOUND A ROOM FOR RENT AT 102 OSSINGION AVENUE. THE PROPRIETRESS'S

NASS HAS, MARS. ADAN SZPAKONS EPAID WAS. SPAKONSKI $20.,00 FOR ONE

WESK'S RENT. MRS.

S'ZP

KOWSKI, WHO SPOKE WITH A HEAVY ACCENT, DID NOT

ASK ME MY NAME NOR DID & VOLUNTEER THE INFORMATION. THEREAPTER ON THE

FOLLONING MONDAY APRIL

1908, I MADE MY WAY -TO THE OF: ICES OF THE

TORONTR EVENING TETEGRAH

AND

ASK TO SES BACK IS UBS OF THE PAPER FOR THE

YEAR 1932. THE LIBRARI

GAVE ME THE REQUESTED IS UES ON MICROFILES AND

• ASSISTED ME WITH THE PROJECTOR. AFTER A TIME

CHOOSED SEVERAE NAMES

FRON THE FILMS; THO OF THE NAMES WERE, RAMON GEORIE SNEYD & PAUL E.

BRIDGMAN. MY PURPOSE IN OBTAINING THESE NAMES WAS

APPLY FOR A PASSPORT

UNDER ONE OF THE NAMES IF CONDITIONS WERE FAVORABLE.

LEAVING THE NEWSPAPER, :

OF: ICS I MADE MY WAY BACK TO THE ROOM ON OSSINGION AVENUS; HOWSVER, BEFORE

I GOI TO OSSINGTON I WAS STOPPED AND TICKETED BY A PLOTCEMAN FOR JAY-

WALKING. I HAD REMEMBEHED A HOMAN'S ADDRESS IN TORONTO, 6 CONDOR STREET,

FROM SOME ADDRESSES I HAD, GOTTEN OUT OF AN UNDERGROUND PUBLICATION APPARENTLY

SPECIALIZING IN

BRINGING PEOPLE TOGETHER"; I GAVE THE POLICIAN THE CONDOR

STREST ADDRESS AS MY OWNOS I AM FAIRLY CERTAIN I ALSO GAVE MY NAME AS, ERIC

GALT, TO THE POLICIMAN. THE NEXT DAY I PHONED THE LOCAL POLICE STATION

INQUIRING ABOUT THE TICKET, HOWEVER, THE STATION DID NOT HAVE THE TICKET

ON FILE. AFTER I ARRIVED BACK AT THE OSSINGTON AVENUE ADDRESS I WROTE THE

NAME OF PAUL BRIDGIAN ON A SLIP OF PAPER AND GAVE IT TO MRS. SZP AKOWSKI

INFORMING HER "THIS IS MY NAME*. THE NEXT DAY I PROCEDDED TO CONTACT BY

TELEPHONE SEVERAL OF THE NAMES I HAD GOTTEN FROM THE TORONTO EVENING TELEGRAM.

HH 55032 Do0Id:32989740 Page 62

p. 29

---

## Page 63

TELLING THEM I WAS WITH THE REGISTRA GEUERAL'S OFFICE INVESTIGATING

. A PASSPORT MATTER; ENQUIRING OF THEM IF THEY HAD EVER BEIN ISSUED A

CANADIAN PASSPORT• EVENTUALLI I CONTACTED, MR. RAMON GEORGS SNEYD, A

TORONTO POLICEMAN, AND UPON ENQUIRY MR. SNEYD INFORVED ME THAT HE HAD

NEVER APPLIED FOR A CANADIAN PASSPORT. THEREFORE SHORTLY THEREAFTER

I MADE NX WAY TO THE ARCADE PHOTO STUDIO AND HAD SEVERAL PASSPORT PHOTOS

TAKEN; I USED THE PAUL BRADCAN NAME IN APPLYING FOR THE PASSPORT PHOTOS.

DURING THIS PERIOD I HAD

PENTED ANOTHER ROOS LOCATED AT 962 DUNDAS STREET

WEST FROM A, MRS. SUN IOO

I REGISTERED UNDER THE NAME OF, RAMON GEORGE

SNEYD, AND TOLD MRS. I00

YORKED NIGHT THUS WOULD BE IN DAYS--I SPENT

THE NIGHTS AT THE OSSINGTON AVENUE ADDRESS.

I THEN VISITED THE KENNEDY TRAVEL, AGENCY IN TORONTO ENQUIRING ABOUT THE

PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A CANADIAN PASSPORT. I TOLD

¿THE OFFICE MANAGER,.

MRS • LILLIAN SPENCER, THAT I DID NOT HAVE A GUARANTOR HAVING JUST RETURNED

TO MORONTO, MRS. SPENCER INPORMED NE THAT II WAS NOT CESSARY IO HAVE A

GUARANTOR, RATHER I COULD MAKE A SWORN STATEMENT THAT

WAS A CITIZEN OF

CANADA; HAVE THE STATEMENT NOTORIZED; THEN HER OFFICE WOULD APPLI FOR THE

PASSPORT. I DID APPLY FOR A PASSPORT THROUGH MRS. SPENCER'S OFFICE UNDER

ISE NAME OF, FON GORGE SUI, AND USIVE THE NOIDAS STREST UST ADDRISSS.

(IF I HAD BEEN THROUGH ENOUGHT TO GAIN FRE AFOREMENTIONED INFORMATION

DURING MY FIRST TRIP TO CANDA IN JULY 1967 I AM SURE I WOULD NOT BE

TESTIFYING BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE TODAY).

DURING THIS PERIOD I ALSO MADE A BRIEF THIP TO MONTREAL, CANADA, TO

ENQUIRE ABOUT SHIP RESERVATIONS TO EJROPE.

pa 30

HH 55032 DooId:32989740 Page 63

---

## Page 64

IN EARLY MAY, 1968, MY PASSPORT IN THE NAME OF, RAMON GEORGE SNEYD,

WAS PROSINTED TO ME BY THE KENNEDY TRAVEL AGENCY. ON MAY 6, 1968,

I DEPARTED CANADA BOUND FOR LONDON, ENGLAND, AND ARRIVED IN LONDON

ON MAY Y, 1968. IMLEDIATELY THEREAFTER I BOARDED A PLANE FOR LISBON,

PORTUGAL. WHILE IN LISBON, AND BECAUSE MY FINANCES WARZ SUCH THAT I

COULD NOT AFFORD FANS TO A LOER DISTAN COUNTRY, SAY AUSTRALIA, I

PiADE SEVERAL EFMORTS TO GAIN TRANSPORTATION TO AFRICA. DURING ONE

PERIOD IN A MELTING WITH ABLACK & WHITE MALE I ATTEPTED TO JOIN A

MILITARY UNIT IN BIAFRA BU

WAS UNSUCCESSFUL," FINALLY I DID FIND A SHIP

WITH AN AVAILABLE: BERTH BOND POM ANGOLA; FOMEVER, A VISA WAS REQUIRED

TO ENTER ANGOLA AND SINCE

HE SHIP WAS LEAVING FOR ANGOLA IN THREE DAYS,

AND IT REQUIRED SEVEN DAYS FOR A VISA TO BE PROCESSE

I MISSED THE

OPYOKTUNITY.

RETUNING TO LONDON, ENGLAND, AFTER APPROXIMATELY TEN DATS

IN PORTUGAL,

I ATTRIPTED ON JUNE 8, 1968, TO LEAVE ENGLAND VIA AIRPLANE DESTINED FOR

BRUSSELS, BELGIUM; HONEVER, I WAS DETAINED AT LONDON'S HEATHROW AIRPORT

BY THE POLICE AND SUBSEQUENTLY ARRESTED BY ENGLISH AUTHORITIES AND HELD

FOR EXTRADITION TO THE UNITED STATES.

THEREAFTER I WROTE NESSRS, F. LEE BAILEY & ARTHUR J.

AHANES SR., OF THE

MASSACHUTTES & ALABAMA, BAR RESPECTFULLY ABOUT REPRESENTATION IN THE

MATTER I WAS BEING DETAINED UNDER, MAMELY-THE DE. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.

HOMICIDE. MR. BAILEY INFORMED ME INDIRECTLY THAT THERE WOULD BE A

CONFLICT-OF-INTEREST INVOLVED IF HE SHOULD TAKE THE CASE, THUS DECLINED;

MR. HANES ACCEPTED THE CASE, APPARENTLY AFTER CONTACTING THE ALABAMA

NOVELISI, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIE AND, PRESENTING ME WITH A LITERARY CONTRACT

TO SIGN. THEREAFTER I WAS SUBSEQUENTLY ORDERED BY AN ENGLISH COURT TO BE

HH 55032 Do0Id:32989740 Page 64

p. 31.

---

## Page 65

HH 55032

EXTRADITED TO THE UNITED STATES AND IN FACT WAS EXTRADITED AND

LODGED IN THE MEMPHIS, TENNESSES, JAIL ON JULY 19, 196S•

AFTER I WAS LODGED IN THE MPHIS JAIL THE APOR YENTIONED ATTORNEY,

FiR. ARTHUR J. HANES, SI•, HAD LI ENTER INTO A SERIES OF LITERARY

CONTRACTS WITH HIS AND, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIS, THE ALABAMA NOVELIST,

IIN ORDER, MR. HANES SAID, TO FINANCENA TURT TRIAL IN THE KING CASE.

SUBSEQUENTLY, IN NOVELBiR, 1968, MY BHOTHER, JEREY W. RAY, VISITED

ME IN SAID JAIL AND SID THAT HE HAD RECENTLY VISITED, WILLIAM BRATFORD

HUIE, AND THAT MP.. HULE, HAD OFFERED KI, INDIRECTLY, THROUGH JERRY,

$12.000, IF I WOULD NOT TAKE THE WITNESS STAND IN THE KING CASE SAYING

" MY TESTIMONY FROM

WITNESS STAND WOULDEDESTROY THE LITERARY VALUE

OF THE BOOK HE (HUIE), WAS WRITING ABOUT

THE CA

E"• CONSEQUENTLY WHEN

PERCY FOREMAN, A REBER OF THE TEXAS BAR, APPEARED UNSOLICITED AT THE

MEMPHIS JAIL A FEW DAYS LATER AND VISITED ME, I AGREED WITH MP. FORCIAN'S.

SUGGZSTION THAT I FIFÖ MR. HANDS AND HIRE, FOREMAN. PERCY FORDIAN HAD

THE ABOVE PENSIONED CONTRACTS IN HAND AND SAID THE ONL THING ARTHUR

HANES WAS INTERESTED IN WAS THE MONDY BEING PROVIDED HIM BY BRATFORD

HUIE, AND THEN PHONISED ME, AND LATER THE THIAL JUDGE

THAT IF I

RETAINED HIM IN THE CASE HE HOULD NOT BECOLE INVOLTED WITH WILLIAM

BRATFORD HUIK

IN COMERCIAL PUBLISHING VENTURESA"

THEREAFTER THIS

"PROMISE® OF PERC

FOREMAN'S WAS OF A

T DURATION IN THAT WITHIN

A FEW DAYS OF BSCOVING COUNSEL-OF-RECORD IN THE CASE HE NADE ARRANGENTS

WITH BRATFORD HUIE TO HAVE, ARTHUR HANES SI., INTEHEST IN SAID CONTRACTS

TRANSFERED TO HI'SELF. THEN LATER, IN JANUARY 1969, MR. FOREMAN

PRESENTED ME WITH A CHECK FHOM, WILLIAM BRATFORD HUIR, FOR $5.000

FOR MY ENDORSEMENT SAYING HE "NEEDED THE FIVE THOUSAND TO RETAIN

CO/COUNSEL", HOWEVER, IN DECEMBER 1968 ATTORNEY FORDIAN HAD PERSUADED

pa 32

DooId: 32989740 Page 65

---

## Page 66

THE TRIAL JUDES, W. PRESTON BATILE, THAT NO FUNDS WIRE PORTH-

CONUNG FROS, BRATFORD HUIE, OR ELSE WHERE, AND THUS HAD THE JUDGE

APPOINT THE PUBLIC DEFENDER, HUGH STANTON SIO, AS CO/COUNSEL-MR.

STANTON HAD PRUVIOUSLY REPRESENTED THE STATE'S CHIEF WITNESS, CHARLEY

STEPHANS, IN THE CASE. THE SAME CHARLEY STEPHENS WHO, FOR A PROMISE

OF $100.000 FROH THE UNITED STATES GOVENMENT, HAD CONMITTED PEPJURY

THROUGH A SWORN AFFIDAVIT BY FALSELY TWING lE THOUGH A PICTURE

IN ORDIE FOR THE CONSHITIANO TO HAVE HE SATADZIN TRON LONDON, EVERANDA

THEN IN FEBRUARY, 1969, PERCY FOREMAN RECEIVED ANOTHER $5.000 CHECK

FROL WILLIAL BRATFORD HUIE THIS TIME HE DID NOT BOTHER TO HAVE ME

ENDORSE IT, RATHER HE JUST DORCED MY NAME TO

IT AND CASHED IT IN

COMPLICITY WITH, PLANTERS BANK OF MEMPHIS.

AFTER COLLSCTING ALL THE MONEY THAT WAS AVAILABLATHON, WILLIAM BRATFORD

HUIE, ATTORNSY FORSYAN THEN COMMENCED, ON FEBRUARY

13, 1969, MANBUVERING

ME INTO A GUILTY PLEA. FORDAN'S ARGUMENTS FOR THE

PLEA HERZ IN

ESSENCE:

1) THAT THE PRESS HAD ALREADY CONVICTED

SE BY INFLAMING

THE MINDS OF POTENTIAL JUORS.

2)

THAT THE GOVEFNVENT HAD BRIBED

AN ALLEGED WITNESS,

CHAFLEY STEPHENS, INTO PERJURING HIMSELF AGAINST ME

A $100.000 REWARD TO SAY HE

SAN SOMEONE FAVORING ME LEAVING THE ROOMING HOUSE,

WHERE DR. KING WAS ALLEGEDLY SHOT FROS, IMMEDIATELY

AFTER THE SHOT WAS FIRED. (WIFE COMMITTED-EXH--C).

3) THAT IT WOULD IN SOVE MANNER BE IN MY FINANCIAL

INTEREST TO PLEAD GUILTY AS CHARGED.

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 66

p. 33

---

## Page 67

4) THAT THE TRIAL JUDGE WANTED A GUILTY PLEA BECAUSE

HS WAS CONCERNED THE BLACKS MIGHT BURN THE TON DOMI-

IN RESPECT'S TO PERCY FORFSIAN & THE JUDGE'S EX-PARTE

KE :TING ARFANGLIG THE PLEA,

APPARENTLY THE TWO HAD

EIGHT BRUTING.

THEN LATER, IN MARCH 12692- FOREVAN SAID THAT IP THE CASE WAS NOT

SETTLED THROUGH A GUILTY PERA THE COVERIMSNT WOULD PROBABLY ARRASY

MY BROTHER, JERKY W. RAY, ONDER SCHE TYPE, CONSPIRACY CHARGE IN THE

•.

DR. KAFT IN LUTHER KING IT, HOUTCHES

HE ALSO SAID THAT TIE, F.B.I.

WOULD MOST LIKELY ARREST

TATHER, GEORCE RAYE

KHO HAS THEN NEAR

SEVENTY YEARS OF AGE, AND HAVE HIM RETURNED TO THE IOWA STATE PRISON

WHEREIN HE HAD ESCAPED IN THE 1920'S.

IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE AFORAENTIONED THREATS & FROMISES, PERCY

FORMAN CONVINCED ME HE WOULD "THRO:" THE CASE IF I MANAGED TO FORCE

HIM TO TRIAL ( IN FACT IN AN ARTICLE PUBLISHED IN LOCK MAGAZINE IN MAY

1969, SOLD TO THE PUBLICATION BY PERCY FORMAN FOR $1

000, HE IN EFFECT

ADNITTED RE MOULD HAVE "THROHEN"THE CASE IF I WOULD HAVE FORCED HIM TO

TRIAL. CONSEQUENTLY, THROUGH WRITIN CONTRACTS, AT ACREID ON MARCH 9, 1969,

TO LANTER THE GUILTY PLEA. MY CONTRACTUAL ACHE MENTS WITH PERCY BORIZIAN

IN HISPECT'S 20 THE TANIS -PAS IT PLA ARE AS FOLLOWS

1st. CONTRACT,

* IF THE PLEA IS ENTERED AND THE SENTENCE ACCEPTED AND NO

EMBARRASSING CIRCUMSTANCES TAKE PLACE IN THE COURTROOS,

I AM HILLING TO ASSIGN TO ANY BANK... ALL OF MY RECEIPTS

UNDER THE ABOVE ASSIGNMENT IN EZCESS OF $165.000".

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 67

p. 34

---

## Page 68

2nd. CONTRACI,

"...I AM WILLING TO ADVANCE JERRY (RAY) $500 AND ADD

IT TO TH& $165.000 MENTIONED IN MY OTHER LETTER TO YOU

TODAY. IN OTHER WORDS, I HOULD ROCEIVE THE FIRST $165.000.

BUT I WOULD NOT MAKE ANY OTHER ADVANCES- JUST THIS $500.

AND THIS ADVANCE ALSO IS CONTINGETIT UPON THE PLEA OF GUILTY

AND SENTENCE GOING THROUGH ON MARCH 10, 1969, WITHOUT ANY

UNSERILY CONDUCT ON YOUR PART IN COURT". ( EXE--D)'o

DURING THE PERIOD OF MY CONFINEHCNT IN THE MRIPHIS JAIL, WHICH TOTALED

APPROXIMATELY EIGHT (8) MONTHS, THE CONDITIONS WERE AS FOLLOWS:

THE STATE OF TENGESEE RETAIVED, OR HAS DIDNTED TO RETAIN,

TWO FEDERAL PRISON OFFICIALSINHO IN A FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS ORDERED

SHEETS OF MEDAL BE PLACED

OVER ALL OF THE WINDOWS THUS SHUTTING OUT

FRESH AIR AND LICHT. THE PROSTALS THEN HAD XELOWER INSTALLED FOR

OXYGEN, WHICH RESULTED IN HY HAVING FREQUERT NOSE BLEEDS. THE BLOWER

COULD ONLY B5 OPERATED OUTSIDE THE CELL-BLOCK. BECAUSS OF':

THE LACK OF'

NATURAL LIGHT THE FEDERALS HAD LIGHTS RIGGRD IN THE CELL-BLOCK, IN-

CLUDING THE CHLL I WAS CONFINED IN, WHICH HEPE KEPT ON

WENTY-POUR (24)

HOURS A DAY. CONPLAINING TO THE TRIAL COURT ABOUT BEING UNABLE TO SIRAP

UNDER THESES CONDITIONS THE COURT SAID * SISP IN A MA

DURING THIS CONFINEMENT PERIOD I BROKE OUT IN A RASHE

THINKING MAYBE

I HAD BEIN POISONED ISASKED THE DOCTOR, WHO WAS HEATED TO THE PROSECUTOR,

FOR A BLOOD TEST. IT REQUIRED 2 OH*3 DAYS TO HAVE THE TEST. AFTER THE

BLOOD SAMPLE FINALLY WAS TAKEN I WAS NEVER TOLD THE TEST FINDINGS; HOWEVER,

IN A 1974 HABEAS CORPUS HEARING THE DOCTOR TESTIFIED THE MEMPHIS. SHERIFF,

WILLIAM MORHIS, HAD ORDERED HID TO DESTROY ALL OF MY MEDICAL RECORDS.

OF OTHER POSSIBLE INTEREST TO THIS COMMITTRE WHILE PERCY FOREMAN

REPRESENTED ME: I ONCED PROVIDED ATTORNEY FORSIAN WITH A PHONE NUMBER,

POSSIBLY CONNECTED TO THE KING HOMICIDE, TO INVESTIGATE, HOWEVER, FOREMAN

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 68

35

---

## Page 69

COKENTED LATER THAT IF THERE HERE TO BE ANY PHONE NUBURS

INTROLUCED LITO THE CASE "HE" WOULD PROJUCE THER THROUGH HIS INTERSTATE

GAMBLING CONECTIONS VIA A, MEYER LANSKY.

THE DAY AFTEK THE GUILTY PLEA I WAS TRANSFERED TO THE STATE PRISON

IN NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. UPON APRIVAL ALI OF MY PERSONAL PROPERTY,

INCLUDING THE AFORZENTIONED PHONE LUMBIR I HAD WRITTEN DOWN BACKVARDS

ON A SHEDT OF PAPERAS CONFISCATSO BY THE CORRECTIONS COMISSIONER,

MR. HARRY AVERY. THOROR THREE DAYS LATER SAID PROPERTY WAS RETURNED

TO BE EXCEPTING VARIOUS ITS OF PERSONAL & LEGAL MAIL THAT HAD BEON

POSTED TO ME IN C/O

THE, NASHVILLE PRISON. ( PHONE NO. -EXH--C).

THE FIST DAY LI THE

PRI

SOM I AS COMPILED FORTHWITH IN SOLITARY

CONFINSIENT AND WAS ON, THAT SALE DAY, INFORKED BY CORTECTIONS

COMMNISÜIONET., HARKY AVERY, THAT I NCULD NEVER BE RELEASED FROM

SOLITARY CONFIDENT UNLESS I CEASED EF. ORTS TO GA

A PUBLIC TRIAL

Ill THE KING CASE: HE SAID HE WAS SPEAKING FOR THE "HIGHEST AUTHORITY" -

I HAD FILED A MOTION FOR A NEN TRIAL THE DAY AFTER

TENTERED THE PRISON,

AND SO INFORMED MR. AVERY OF MY INTENT IN THIS MATTER.

THEREAFTER

I WAS CONFINED FOR THIRTEN ( 13) MONTHS IN SOLITARY

CONF INDUSNT

«AND DURING THE INITIAL PERIOD OF THIS CONFINEMENT HAD TO

BE TREATED BY A

DOCTOR SEVERAL TIMES FOR NASAL MEMBRANE HEMORRAHAGING.

THIS AILMENT ( DAMAGED MELBRANE) HAS DUE TO CONFINEMENT CONDITION IN

THE MEMPHIS JAIL, 1.E., LACK OF VENTILATION. IN ADDITION, DURING THIS

PEPIOD I WAS ALSO TREATED FOR ESOPHAGUS SPASMS, ALSO RELATED TO THE

MEYPHIS JAIL CONFINEVENT CONDITIONS.

AFTER THIRTE IN (13) MONTHS OF THIS TYPE CONFINEMENT I UNDERSTAND THE

p. 36

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 69

---

## Page 70

LATE WILLIAN E. MILLER, RECENTLY A JUDGE ON THE UNITED STATES

SIXTH CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS, INTAHCIDZD WITH PRISON AUTHORITIES

AND HAD THEM TRANSFER ME TO THE STATE PRISON AT PSTROS, TENNESSRE

IF I HAD NOT BEUN TRANSFERDD I DOUBT IF I WOULD HAVE BEEN HERE TODAY.

IN LATE JULY OF 1972 THE PETROS PRISON WAS CLOSED AND I WAS TRANSFERRD

BACK TO THE NASHVILLE PRISON. AFTER BEING IN THE GENERAL PRISON POP-

ULATION FOR FOUR (4) DAYS I WAS UNIONED TO THE MAIN PRISON OFFICE

AND INFORMED I WOULD BE RETUNED TO SOLITARY CONFINIENT. REJUESTING

TO SZE THE WARDEN, JAMES LOSS, I WAS INFORMID BY ME. ROSE THAT PROPLE

CUT IN TOWN" WANTED ME PLICED IN SOLITARY BUT THAT IF I QUITE LITIGATING

THE CASE HE WAS SURE I WOULD BE RELEASED FROM SOLITARY CONFINEVENT.

THERRAFTER I STAYED IN SOLUTIRY CONFINMENT FOR THREE (3) YEARS, THE

FIRST EIGHTE IN MONTHS I WAS PERMITTED CUT OF TRE COIL, WHICH WAS

it

APPROXIMATELY 6 X 12 FEST, FOF ONLY FOUR MINUTES PE

A DAY- THAT WAS TO

TAKE A SHOWER. THE COLL BLOCK WAS INFESTED WITH INSECTS & RODENTS.

DURING THE THRES (3) YEARS I WAS IN THE BUILDING FOUR PRISONERS ( EXH*F)

COMMITTED SUICIDE, TWO BY HANGING & TWO BY SETTING THE

SELVES ON FIRE...

NATURALLY THE DOMINANT PROSS IN THE UNITED STATES SAID

NOTHING ABOUT

THESE SUICIDES,

ALTHOUGH IF THEY HAD HAPPENED IN

FOREIGN COUNTRY THE

SAME PRESS WOULD HAVE BEIN IS A SELF-HIGHEDOUS RAGE, OR PRETENED RAGE.

DUKING THIS PERIOD, SPECTPICATEY

DECEIBER, 1973, TENNESSIE CORHECTIONS

OF. ICIALS ACTING IN COLLUSION WITH THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

JUSTICE, ATTEMPTED TO ILLEGALLY REANSFER NE TO THE FEDERAL MENTAL

INSTITUTION IN SPRINGFIELD, MISSOURI.. THIS ATTEMPTED TRANSFER WAS

AFTER THE AFOREMENTIONED OFFICIALS LEARNED OF A SUIT THAT WAS TO BE

FILED IN MY BEHALF IN FEDERAL COURT REFERING TO THOES WHO MAY HAVE BEEN

HH 55032 Do0Id:32989740 Page 70

- 38

---

## Page 71

RESPONSIBIE FOR THE SHOOTING OF, DE. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JI.

OF OTHER POS-IBLE INTEREST TO THIS COMMITTES DURING THIS PERIOD:

JUST RECENTLY SHE AFOREMANTIONED CORRECTIONS COMKISSIOLER, HAPRY AVERY;

HAS STATED HE GAVE ALL OF THE PAPERS, ECT., HE RETAINED OF MINE & THOES

CONNECTID WITH THE KING CASE TO ATTORNEY, THOMAS WARDLOW STEELE, OF THE

TENNESSEE (NASHVILLE ) BAR, AND THAT THE PAPIPS SUNSEQIENTLY RISAPPEARED

FROM MR. STE IE'S OFFICE.

IN ADDITION, ATTORNEY PERCY PORSHAN HAS TESTIFIRO THAT HE TOO GAVE HIS

COXPLITS FILE IN THE KING CASE INCLUDING ALI ERPORIATION I HAD EVEN

MR. FORMAN, TO ANOTHER NASHVILE ATTORNEX, THE LATER JOHN J. HOOKER, ST•,

AND THAT MR. HOOKER "LOST" THE

Respectfully: James

Ray

HH 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 71

pa 38

---

## Page 72

PEER SIOES

1. Percy Foreman testified he net with trial Judge, i. Preston

"attle 6 or 8 tires arranging the guilty plea. See Foreman

deposition, Rey Vo Foreson, et al, CIvil lo. 60199, VoD. Tenn.

2. See, CHE-TV t-pe I supalled this committee therein Charley

Stephens, shortly fter the shooting of DI. Mirtin Luther king Jr.,

and after viering by picture, told CeS that res not the person

he sen leaving the leantouth arin strest address.

3. prison

records, mashville.

4. I have a copy of the

in eret

mary ivery made add stiterents.

NH 55032 DocId:32989740

Page 72

---

## Page 73

4 32

C

3-1 50080115 NASTEN.

sponsorsin

40980909 160. 197.5

ExAmpie

SOLITARY CONLEiN

•5/28/86

NW 55032 Do Ta: 92989740 Page 73

6-26-75.

Ray Gels More

Prison Freedom

Coars thist 18.89's

James Karl 18:9.

1188086187-

747479747999

tin Luther King Jr..

i: 119:y

allossed to mingle willistlier

10B8:-0e-T5 31 1016°

Tranes:1

Madle denilentsary allis

We's in maximum securi

soling, Warden Hobert

Merloud said live

Cist

Scenrily

8880880888+38666108888 lylis

81638 68008609887

Hey's

+8858563211288

sill red stale pricens wilt in

J:XDo (es House 184H) 8888033-

01S.

Ness sorfully over-

10100/0°%

Marlord said it sill loo

intervals ba the prison's

•Doors of resea.

"and disc

hond recanade that

King be releases thin thie

feneral prison papis-

Morlord sina Trids.

arrest in

London lor

Aprils, soon, slaying of Kin

if Memphis

Returned in the 1'5

telesician monitored coll an

the Steles Cans Jail, 18a

pleade: suilty in Mares

1960, to murdering King gid

"Sited ther soars.

Morlord said there

Prisone

S-D1PON8

Found Hung

With Cord

The body d9 is Tennesses

Stale Prison immale Mas

le is ligilit

coral friday night lis a pores.

on guard. police

lotties.

said

101041888

19021816

Jere identified Ise inessisle:

as Airs Bidder dr.

*11o-lol8 a seoc, 88l1i68) 8s÷8s

so paraly drolled thal inves

#oe: 606551968 6280911nialole.los

le: detective said

Al the oli

stale.

mis8811n socarity prison.

worked for a shirin nein.

Mount isin.

thee Diss:solry.

Since pleading muills lo

the cirisins

Mister, Big Dia: less tying

elon that be son coerera

by defense lassgers. includ-

ing Mercy Foreman. Hous

son. Tex., was rejected lite

list fear after a U.S. Sir-

presne.Courl.ordered

dentiary hearing

Abanata

• BS PrISON

sHare eirs

his sends thrass Shor dell

bark, authoritics sail.

Prison

officials said

•Bander. sids died home d.

14'835

---

## Page 74

ALL DVV

nayway

ONIg

normant Told TBIT 1973

ly me was a complerely: dien

an afterchat:" In fact when Kaur.

freivogel ar

Past. Dispace

..He sald tha

was arrested in: 1sa7 for selling

emphetaming pills to leder

Blocky man

Basked his attoray it fie could

no, code in perrie win

andcrat by reason of insanity; thie':

said. That.Ided .was.abandoned,

renal, helm

I in parentheses:

er, and Kaufmann as convicted.

fadividual

Beyors

with recommented that ther

mann, a stockbrakeriend business.

man was actually

that this

the

individual

led in 197921..

who

made the payoil of James Earl Ray alter

led for

wife Reulah GiKautimänn rest.

the 'killing.

about three hours-last week.ba

ture the House select commiltoe,

ve: told the Post

The

committe do not ok her aust

severs (the name is consistently.

ration that analistocky mo.

edin the memd) talked, freely

overweight and walked with a marked, who walked with a limper had paid att

limp after being injured in an automobile: "Ray, the Post-Dispaich was told. py.a

cat i or tile by bey he escro say that action diet

seident several yers prior to the on mure uliet wu the in shere

as told a Mory about visiting a isgemodito have impalred Kaultmann

Raultmana ritu edito: discussithe

10 DCt32630/ 209512

HW

55032

DocId: 32989

Page

set boss

nigels nt:

recents "

---

## Page 75

8A

Taurs., Augast 3, 1978 -

ST. LOUIS POST-DISPATCH

Byers

ME FROM PAGE ONE :

matter, hanging up on

* Vednesday night.

taking Byers' story

One committee

source:told the Post Dispatch that. the

theft of statues from the St. Louil

Art

"The memorandum largely libes with

panel is undecided./

Museum earlier this year:

A well-placed source said drug agents

Zan account. Byers gave about the same

time to a reputable St.. Zouisan.

"We're just working on it," the source.

Byers is described in the memorab

•Suspectod one of Kaufmann's cadelen.

"said. "We haven't come to any conclu.

• dum as a "very treacherous guy." The

idents, butino.evidence was developed

"biny a about 1974, the*St Loudsan told the

= sions'as to how seriously to take it:".~

"description apparently.came from.a

Unking ay po-defendunt ro the shooting.

i'Post-Dispatch, Byers told him that a

"associate of the FBI informant, whi

'in addition fero

'St.

stockbroker who had lost his license was

_The source nofed, however, that the

"cautioned the informant "lo stay from

Louis County

'policemen lio Investlgated said they

SInvolved In offering. Byers, $50,000 for.:

intensity of thy committee's efforts

shows that the pinel considers the story

¿him if he wanted to stay out of trouble.

thy was deuest broker appar

One of she investigators on the stalt of

rently, was Kaultmann.*

well worth investigation.

mand federal drug agents had questioned

"Certain things appear to corröborate

the House commitice was the ledera

The 550.000 figure differs frai

the " the story," the purce said, sithout

drug agent who ll years ago led thi

i E10,000 to 520,000 figure cited In the F

elaboriting. "Butigt this point, we're

Investigation into Kauttmann's, Illega

"oap told county police that at chr,

* memo, Byers gaid he never intended to

just following up all

angles.... Basically,

'Sale öf amphetamines. Kauftranun

blocked' his path' on sulphur

Sptings

Road on his' way back home atier. A.lazo

$go through with the plot, but folliwed. we inke anything like

convicied in 1067.

is seriously until

night meeting Sept. 122

along for awhile out of curiosity.

The Investigator Harold b. Leap,

1967, With tho

has

inlormant, who had heiped

Byers' allegations have focused aller

yers allegations have led vestige on s* alletion and Susher ted,

beer un the committee staft since last

mito the

¡case aginst Kaultaani! The informant.

tors to speculate that his brother-in-Law, gy.

year. That Indicates that he tas not just

a Jphn Paul Spica, might have conveyer

whose names had not been.montioned

hired to follow up on the Kaultman

• Dallas •Bati had:taken activa part•lo

sword of, the" bounty to Ray at the

publicly in connoction with the King case

rangle, which was disclosed ta the com

Kauffriann's Mesal amphetamine opera

tor Sons

4, Missourt. Pealtentiary, where both wits

untll last week,

ite in March 02m

tr.

I serving' sentences al the time of the

The FBI memorandum sant unnoticed

alleged offer in late 1958 or early 1967.

wale heading the successful effort to

: Leap. sald

he struggled outside

his:car

with to feen from the other car boloro.

by investigators.looking into. King's.

prosecute Kauffpiern

and sevon.co.

being shot in the head by his own pistol.:

• Spica, who now runs a trult stand in 5l."

assassination for four years bcoause it

• defendants, Leap. was wounded in a

The solind. was superficlal and he soon

Low's, has denied having any dealings i cross-referenced: It was uncovered in

&with Ray.

"was illed under Byors' name and not

shooting on a. country road in St. Zouis

Membe of the House tammitle have

• County.

regained consalous

March when investigators were review.

atused t@.say.how surlously.thog.

file In connection with the

vera ver madonn

Leap' refused to

ilhe

with the assassi

shooting.

S1 50

HIH

55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 75

ALL, INFORETON CONTATNED

777N

FIED

D.22-S20848c0-

---

## Page 76

King Assassination Witness

Grace Walden

Freed:

NAACP'S $100,000 reward if |would say

in the world watching and listening,

it was Ray, but I couidn't accept their

Lane reports that he "visited the Soviet

by Greg Roberts

money because I didn't see Ray,

• Ms.

Embassy there, and requested that

Walden has said many times.

Russian psychiatrists be assigned to

According to Lane, what then trans-

examine Grace Walden in Tennessee.

Grace Walden Stephens, a witness

pired was the FBI's convincing of Char.

"Since De. Cohen had selused 1o

ermit any psychiatrists, including Dr

who saw the slayer of civil rights leader

lie Stephens, a reputed nohis"a-

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. flee from the

coholic with a long police record, to state

Benjamin Bursten, the vice-chairman of

Memphis rooming house from where he

thaktie hed also seen the man and that

the Psychiatry Department at she Uni-

versity of Tennessee, to examine Ms.

fired al King, has been freed from the

the killer was Ray.

various Memphis and Tennessee Stale

Subsequently, Mr. Stephens applied

Walden, I also called upon psychiatrisis

menial wards where she has been con

from various other nations to form an

fined without due process for nearly 10

for the NAACP reward.

international brigade to come to Bolivar

years.

However, as for Ms. Walden, on July

31, 1938, two Memphis erectives from

and examine her," Lane says.

Shark Lane, the veleran JFK and King

the haricide squad carne oui so the

Weanwhile, in Wastinion D.C., AS-

assassinalion truth digger and current

sociale FBI Director James Adams sub

boradigg house.

apd picked her up

lawyer for James Earl-Ray and Grace

Walden, freed Ms. Walden at her urging

Frole

temphs polco:tieadquarters.

sequently acknowleuged to newly-ap

where, us. Walden once agairrelysed

poinied FBI Director William Webster.

from a Memphis "boarding house'

Allorngy General Griften Bell and CIA

Thursday, May 4, and subsequently

to sayal was Ray, she was handcullod&Director Stansfield Turner shat Ms.

and laken to the mental ward of the John

New Ms. Walden to Los Angeles, where

Gastin City Hospital,

where she was

Walden was really not insane, and Dir

she is presently staying

swiftly declared "insane.

rector Webster. through Adams, told the

Previously, Ms. Walden, a diabetic,

Memptis FBI office to pull strings

had been kept at the State Hospital for

After spending the night at the hospi-

10

tal, Ms. Walden was then chained with

have Ms- Walden released.

- so-called psychiatric patren!s in Bolivar,

the other psychiatric patients and carted

Consequently, Tennessee authorities

Tenn., for the balance of the past 10

off to the State Hospital in Bolivar.

agreed to have Ms. Walden transferred

years.

In recent years, as Mark Lane began

10 a boarding house in Memphis, where

it was then onlya maller of lime before

Dr. King was assassinated as he

concentrating on the King murder

slood on the balcony of the Lorraine

•co-authoring a book on the subject with

Lane was able

econtact her.

Molel in Memphis on April 4, 1968.

~aclivist-comedian Dick. Gregory, Code

Once contactewas made and Mis.

Ms. Valden, then married lu Charles

Name Zorro - he and Meniphis private

Walden explainedito Mark Lane that she

Stephens, had been living al she nearby

detective Reniro Hayes traced Ms.

would like lo take litrip 10 Los Angeles.

boarding house from where the shot

' Walden to the Bolivar snakepit.

they caught the näxt fight to L.A. Irom

• was fired and observed a man feeing

Needless to say, Lane subsequently

Memphis without further interlerence

the bathroom, which had been locked

from the Memphis police or tne FBI.

launched an international campaign 10

for hours, immediately after she heard a

free Grace Walden, where a great deal

Subsequently, gertain authorities in

silie shor.

Tennessee are

of pressure was broughi to bear on the

pday heckling Mark

After the assassination, Is. Walden

providod Memphis pouce and FBI ag-

Tennessee

establishment and on

Lane and threafaning him with con-

Bolivar chiel Dr. Morris Cohen, who re-

tempt, largely as, ploy for them to cover

ants with tho dolails öl a sketch of the

their lacks if and when the Justice De-

portedly lad Ms. Valden frequent doses

man, which the FBI subsequenlly ro-

of poient drugs such as the dreaded

partment get around to prosecuting

leased and identified as Eric Starvo

them.

prolixim, a severe tranquilizer.

Gatt, who did not look anyining like ac-

Recently,

•cused King assassin James Ear Ray.

Lano's

"Iroo

Grace

Mark Las

no. incidentally, replied to tho

Walden®

campaign came lo a climax

Tennessos authorities that he will gladly

Interestingly.

the man whom

when, on April 2C, he and researcher

• Walden

saw feeing the locked bal cApril Ferguson dropped by the Russian

meel them in count or anyplace else

whenever they call.

hroom does resemble one of the male

Embassy in Paris, France.

• And we all moved a day closer to a

meramps"

whom Dallas poice had ar-

With every major intottiganco agency

time when James Earl Ray receives a

rested in Dealey Plaza shortly ater tho

fair trial.

• JFK assassination there on Novembei

22, 1953, and whom neither the Dalias

polcie nor the FBi have ever identified.

As for Grace Walden, she began lo

run into problems with the

Hemphis

police and tha FBI belween May and

July, 1968, when she relused to identity

James Earl Ray as the man whom sho

saw lleeing the rooming house bal-

hroom.

Attor the Robert Kennedy assassina-

tion in Los Angales on

June 5, 1968,

public opinion forced U.S. intelligenco lo

come up with Dr. King's killers, so lho

FBi and

CIA reluciantly produced

James EariRay.fre Kingdeathpaisy.in

London on June 8, 1968.

_ HOLLYWOOD PRES

Page 2 • MAY 10, 1978

Howevor, when Brilish authoritios

demanded evidence Irom the FBI that

Ray had really murcared King, the FBI

office in Memphis lired 10

con Ms.

Walden and her hussand lo assert ihalil.

was Ray whom she had seen.

"They told ma thal 1 mouid goi tho

5128780

-099411

Дріінтка

not ery on

---

## Page 77

Dear James Parl:

You have heretofore assigued to me all of your royalties, from

magazine articles; Dook, motion picture, of diser reventairs

Eerived from the writings of Willian Bradford Fue Three 9l

my own property unconditionally.

However, you have bartoloro authorised nad raumied ma tr

negotiate a plea of guilty if the State of Tennesses through it

District Attorncy General and with the approval of the trial judgo

would waive the death penalty. You agreod to accept a sentence

of 99 years.

It is contemplated that your case will bo disposed of lomoron,

March 10, by the above plea and sentence. This will sbarten too

trial considerably. In consideration of the time it will zave ma,

I am willing to make the following adjustment of my fee arranga

ment with you:

If the plea is entered and the sentence accepted and no embar-

rassing circumstances take place in the courtroom, I am willing

to assign to any bank, trust company or individual selocted by you

all my roceipts under the above assignment in excers at $165,000.

These funds over and above the first $165,000 will be held by

such bank, trust company or individual subject to your order.

I bave either spent or obligated myself to spend in excers of

$14,000, and I think these expenses should be paid in addition 10

1Y&

HE SLEW THE DREAMEk

but 5o0 he reto to gees will ced the 515,000,

Yours truly,

PERCY FOReMAN

Dear James Ears

You have asked that I advance to Jerry Ray

$500 of ibe

*$5,000", referring to the first $5,000 paid by William Bradford

Huie. At that time I had spent tir execes of $9,500 on your case.

Since then I have soent in excess of $4,000,udditional.

But I ara wiling to advance Jerry

$500 and add it 10 the

$165,000 mentioned in my other letter to you today. In otbel

words, I would receive the first $165,500. But I world not make

any otber advances just this one $500. And this advance also 15

contingent upon the plea of guilty and sentence going through on

March 10, 1969, witbout any unseemly conduct on yourpart ir

court.

P. S. The rifle and the white Mustang are tied up in the suit

filed by Renfro Hayes Ithe private detective who worked for Mr.

Hanes). Court fosts ánd attorneys fees will be necessary, perhaps,

in gel them released. I will credit the $165,500 with whalever ti

i've in the cost of obtaining them, if any.

now authorize and direct any person, firm or corporation having

funds due and swing me by virtue of said Basic Agreement, or

otherwise owing to me because of the writings of said Author, to

pay the same to tho said Percy Foreman, at his ofice in Houston,

Harris County, Texas, in his own name and as his own property.

I read that agreement with dismay because with it went my last

hope of ever being able to exert anancial leverage on Ray. It's hard

77

Page

Đọc Id.32989740

55032

1969, or giberwise, said assignment and transier hercin 1o the

said Pepsy Foreman being absolute and irrevocable, and I here

to the proceeds that would otherwise have accrued to me pursuant

to said Basic Agreement and to said Amendatory Agrcemcat, and

to all of my rights thereunder as well as to any other right or

rights that might be or have been mine because of the writing and

subsequent publication of such writing by said Author William

Bradford Huis, whether included in said assignment by the said

Hanes to me under the Amendatory Agreement of January 29,

In December Mr. Foreman had pneumonia and lost a monta's

work. But on Friday, January 24, 1969, he few into Huntsvillo

airport,. where I met him and we talked for another four hours be

tween planes. The result was that on January 29, 1969, we signed

a four way amendatory agreement under which Mr. Hanes "got

out" bytransferring all his rights to Ray, and Ray reaiirmed all

his grants to me, with all actions being approved by Mr. Foreman

Then on Fobruary 3, 1969, Mr. Foreman plucked Ray clean by

having him sign a notarized two-way agreement which roads in

part:

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESB PRESENTS: That I, James?

Earl Ray, presently in Memphis, Shelby County, Tennessec, for

and in consideration of his agreement to represent me at the

trial or trialsifof any cases presently pending against mo in

Shelby County Tennessee, have signed over, gives, convoyed and

transferted, and do by this instrument here now give, assign,"

set over and canster to Percy forman, of Houston, Harris

County, Texas, all of my aforesaid rigbt, title and interest in and

§ріваті

HB SLEW THE DREAMER

193

---

## Page 78

Tinalenitr

Roccivor of Sheriff William N. Morris. Jr: tho

sun of 5/0°

Said monigs being sent

by mail to James Earl Ray, with aliases, from CAll feezi

63143.

N1 STEN: NO. 751344834129

The above sim wastrecolved in tho form of

cash,

check)

moncy

order.

(circle appropriate)

VERA C. STAPLES

DES!- W.W, FIVER DR,

58.F20.

BY:

rames Earl Ray, County Jail

RRY RAY - 710

LOUIS.

MISSOUT

1h5 hN.1214 1887

al'i

6.31.04.

з.

WH 55032 Dold: 32989740/Pase,78d,

11988

---

## Page 79

24 Kingsport Times Aeda

,, January 25, 197

James Earl Ray

FBI agents found Ray to be a lonely guy who

answered the ads in girhe magazines

Starvo Gualt on Feb' 12, 1968 - less

Earl Ray, the convicted assassin of

WASHINGTON (UPI) ' James, ¿''"than to month li fore tha King as

Martin Luther King, is portrayed la.. s sarsination r 5579 answered -

FBI files as a painfully shy man who

similar ad. He wrote

sought women's company. through

am answering your listing

ballroom dance classes, phone calls

he. Local Swinger sino, 1 think*

and sez-oriented classified ads in the

share most. of

your interest, with

back pages of magazines.

"emphasis 'on French"culture "Cora

Ray was described throughout the.

and swing sessions.

FBI probe as the classic example of a

sexy hage Just reessned trom alexico

_ t00 shy to look &

fter fiye years and the rewamilie

woman

the eye.

yet able to

proclaim a preference for oral sex in

engò

-I 'have met

don't go for theswini

parnes and st jakes two to swung. In.

a letter lo a women he had never

same routine gets boring, don't yau

met.

think.

"By files also suggest that Ra

think another occasion he lasted

ometimes sought out prostitutes.

several books from an'ad, including

yuman he dated in Puerto Vallara,

Mexico, said Ray advised her of his

one entitled. "Unusual Fende Sex

suel daily budget

and 58 for drinks.

472 women

Practices,"

The FBI files.contain reports the

Post Öffice Department- recelved

¿Prison Inmales who served:time

obsçene letters from Gal, along with

with Ray in the eart 1980s reported

he::

constantly

magazines"

read

"girlie

casures ol Buy: Alidst two women sa

and the FBi flies in

complained that he plagued tbem

with late alähetelephone.calls

dicede he oiler replied to the clas

Ray' aloo-soughtto be with wanengt

sifed ads.

Ray himself placed adassed na

Lance classes me tock classes-ir

New Orleans; Birmingham. Ala; and

Los Angeles, and once paid $188 lot--

passionate married female.

•850 a week;

& box number and hired a mall for.

But when he met women reco io

warding service when he lost the f

"face-in these-dasses, he. froie. One:

rewriting undex his alage

instructor recalled he mared

HH'

Ex-A-1

55032

DocId: 32989740. Page 79-4.

1197, 1999

25128/04

---

## Page 80

I Startion PastOne

we know of hie-living hubles bbin bors

and alter the murder would indica

i ride wed on sery limitedoun

-We do not know

malle ramoundor

Managipassesi

ed by Rasp but since

We know hims

haye robbed iri ban

Ingland after

fleeing ra that, co

¿ reasona

ble presumptior.

Raji: Comraltted.

robberies in the: Unitad Starca

durin;

said...

.ingo one prisonor

testimony. Groin inachs

arid by hil

ystal

2d. " He

ту.

trom

adapubility:

nopsness and

porteicarried.ouh

Tuy first pleaded

the court wher. it

case came: 10

Ray obtained moncy,

white

"Narch

104-1960, by?. changing

Musiang r0

phis; $131.25 for the

piCa

so su he wào sentenced:

punip rifle and 574:60 for Rodflald.scopp

He since has made numerous ensl

telescopic sight ha. used to kil

King:

jia leand bafor

cossful appeals,

and the funds to reach

Canada,

and ta

and"last malllescaped

from Brushy: Mountain State grisón I

¡ pay for his round tlp: plane rickei

cime'of.his.ars

London.

London_from

Tannessde :,He was! appre

gendea

store tire tater."

THERE WERE indications. Ray was

ках, пож: trayelr

reupon his gully plea,

martinvalued. in, drug wailic in

aling, y vas

The reports-made. avallible under

"presian Baule be could "not"a

the Fregiom of normation Acron also

cept! the statemenis of léprosécuror

showed astrongestrenk.of racisin, sinds:

prisen or four years prior to the slate which he hact checke

African

fallsbur,

and; his' artorney that he had acid

pro-Nail feelings muy, hàte led Ray so

allies. wichour. aid fro

• In: Momphis told police harroomen hadr

assarsinate the man who most symbol.

• adaspirator:

i. ¿The documents alsa showedia..

da: silly smile! maremariashict prou

but blacks refuel accept, to hing

: but equal statur in Minerica:;.

EVER • SINCE, herd

Just a few viacks befero. king s mur

beeh.

"o The Filsumied for two months,. ducedi several sips fromincople jung

explored the rbeory Ray. might have?

knew men write silly stiles.

* der, Ray, and i companion; Charles!

most his: life

in fail,

beeri killed

alter: the assassination"" di Ray lay, shy' atourid

Stein, drove from Los Angeles: lä New

orces eager

to relience

Agents hud lad tests conductod whenev^

answered/advertistments

Orleans and bach in the courge of that

trip: Ridesara

recently as June, 29;

197, роц.

er unidentified bodies were found any

One

1971,

of girlie magazines.

iplace in the country,

said his shyness

Savear lo his racial

verd the FBl Mles showed, the bureau

• So desperate was the FBl'for leads: could not look her. i

conciuded it could find, "nothing to indi-

• Ichas it instructed.agents' ro

"discreetly

"IF NEGROES, mantra be free. they

An uncle told agents Ray may hav

cate that Ray ever received any large

spokey:.:

remind their news contacis" about the

a Walter Rila,

should go mart or west stein quited been initusncu

Ray: "If, they stay in the South, they, Jews Drapro Nazis

mans oncy and hunt do money from anyone, and what

tens of thousands of dollars avallable in

said! Ray

would: pul

reward money..

would also roll 'drunks lo

should ba.silingca. bo glaves?

workadi de a. youth

Tahit all a er of paired lee,

and would optian money sisy

thlet

could

obtain'

shorts near the boarding house

man

 the buller was fired put

suchoritios

on.

charäoteried him ma a rame

loner.

Ray's trail almost instantly; The pliary

wore: indentifled

two days. aller;

: Chai

reau..

"has norvous

shooting as having.boon sold. by: tho

of his carlobes

Raripaga Hardwaro Co. on Hollywood'®

have a crooked smile.

Boulevard, Los Angeles.

wear.

was

traced to

Thọ.

undor.

cigarets, beer. vodka

"Eric

Gals"

ques, reserved. evasiva

through laundry tugs from a dry, cleant.

0:1..10rm01

ing establishment three blocks frons thay

Ray

hardware store,

•The landlady in the rooming house was fo

HW

55032 • DocId: 32989740

Page 80

ALL INRORMARION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

DAIE S/28184

і -А

---

## Page 81

MERAL GOVERNMENT

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Ir. Robert Reuch

Director, FBI

1 - Mr. Long - Enc.

~ Mr. Foster - Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

August 24, 1978

2 - Mr. Coulson - Enc.

1 - Mr. Heller - Enc.

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this memorandum advises that Special Agent

Richard S. Clark, Legal Attache, London, England,

sas interviewed on August 11, 1978. A rerorancum

sotting forth Iir. Clarl's account of this interview

is enclosed for your information.

Enclosure

APPROVED:

Director

ED. AD AdI

Dep. AD inv.

Adm. Serv._

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun

Plan, & Insp.

Rec Mant.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

1 - Personnel file - Richard s. Clark - Enclosure

ATT, TIMOTH

Арчіктки

APPFOYED:

idm. Ser:

Srin. Inv

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

REC-70

1=-11?

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec Mght. /

rech. ServE: --

rening.

Public Affs. Off.

1163

Assoc, Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. _

Intell..

Laboratory

Lon CouRH: RH:00704

Plan. & Insp. _

Rec. Mgnt. _

(10)

Tech. Servs. _

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y —

1119

MAIL ROOM

78710 Page 81

FBI DON

---

## Page 82

4

4..

JUDERAL GOVERNMENT

(

Assistant Attorney General

Grininal Division

Aticntion 77. Robert I. Keuch

Director,

FBI

0

August 24, 1978

HOUSE SPLECT COLITICE ON ASSASSINASIONS

U. a. FOULE 07 REFTESENTATIVES (HECA)

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. W. I.

Bailey

1 - Mr.

Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Roference is made to the letter to the Attorney

Genoral Irom G. Robert Blalicy, Chief Counsel and Director, ESCA,

datod August I1, 1978, which requested, in connection with the

ISCA's investigation into the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther

King. Jr., that dellvery be made of chicago field office file

seria] 44-114-772.

Enclosed are an oricinal and one copy of a memorandum

in rosponse to the abovc-refcrenced letter. It is requested

that a copy of the nemorandum be furnished to the ISCA.

Inclosures (2)

62-117290

ALT TATTOM CONTATI

15f8186

- ENCLOSURE

Ex 131

REC-66

62-111-290-1164

5 AUG 20 1378

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir::

Adm. Servs.

1110

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. -

Intell. .

Laboratory.

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

, 1.

Telephone Rm. -

0500019 82

151.9

MR.

I: -11

3459)

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 83

r.I.comm

1 - Legal Counsel Division

Attn :

Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. W. L. Bailey

1

Mr. Ryan

- Mr. Foster

August 24, 1978 .

HOUSE SELECI COLITTER OT ASSASSILATIONS

J. E. HOUSE OF REPRESEUTATIVES (ISCA)

Feference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

ISCA, dated August Il, 1970, unich renuested, in connection

with the IscA's investiration into the assacsination oi

Dr. Hartin Luther Ming, Jr., that delivery be made of Chicago

Meld Office file serial 44-114-772.

This is to confirm that delivery of above-mentioned

Chicago serial was made to lICA Stoff Hember Phoebe Orr,

on August 11, 1978.

TWB: pim

1 (7)

62-117290

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANI ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

August 24, 1978, captioned as above.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident. _

Intell. -

Laborotory

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mant._

Tech. Servs..

Training -

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. _

Director's Sec'y _

/indeed

MAIL ROOM

NH 55032 DocId:32989740

so tilli

S128|5ü

.14

62-117291

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

Page

/ 83

---

## Page 84

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUEL

ANE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART

CKINNEY, CONN,

VONNE BRATHWNIE BURKE, CALIF

CHARLES THENE, NEBR.

HRISTO HER J-BOSE, CONN

HAROLD S, SAHIYER, MICH.

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN::

FLOYD J. FITICAN, IND..

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

Ree c10

9-15780=

(202) 225-4624

EDERAL ROVERTAENE

(Select Committee on Assassinations

14.5. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 12, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the

death of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., the assistance

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is requested in

regard to the following matters for the years 1967-1968:

1) Prepare for access

on a priority basis all

BUFILE material as

well as material from the

Field Offices of Birmingham, Jackson, Atlanta,

New Orleans and Los Angeles

on the Citizen's

Council of America.

2)

X137 REC89 62 42219-1167

Prepare for delivery

"BUFILE and Identification

Division Records on the following individuals:

a. Michael Thomas Jenkins - dob 7/13/50

22 SEP 20 1978

3)

b. Arman Kaliyan, Jr. - dob 9/24/43

a.

Provide the names of all FBI personnel, who

may have been present (that is, all persons

not assigned to the Memphis Field Office) in

Shelby County during the period covering March

18, 1968 through April 4, 1968.

b.

Prepare for delivery any and all materials

or communication generated by any such persons

as discussed above.

62-117990

HE SEP Z8 1978

Doera: 5296on40% Pagé 8T

---

## Page 85

* "The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Page Two

4)

Prepare for access any and all BUFILE and

subfile material:

George Brusca, JI. - dob 12/28/28

As always your prompt attention is greatly appreciated.

Very truly yours,

8. Nolet Blobs

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : ghh

XC :

Mr.

Ron Heller

1N 55032 DooId:32989740

Page 85

---

## Page 86

HAROLD E. FORD, TENN.

OYD S. FITHIAN, IN

OBERT W. EDGAR, I

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN E

SAMUEL

VINE, OHIO

STEWAR

IC KINNEY, CONN.

CHARLES MINE, NEBR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4524

Hernse

(Select Committee on Assassinations

- U5. House of presentatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 13, 1978

9-15-75

FEDERAL GOVERIUENG

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Comnittee

into the death of DI. Martin Luther King, JI., it is

requested that access be provided for Metropolitan Policel

Department officers Norman Smith, Darrell Linville and

Ray Holbrook to all original fingerprint cards possessed

by the FBI on the following subjects:

1)

James Earl Ray, FBI #405942G

2)

Jerry William Ray, FBI #862651A

3)

John Larry Ray, FBI #368-725A

4)

Randolph Rosenson, FBI #34-711E

5)

Gus Prosch, dob 11/17/30

Jesse B. Stoner, dob 4/18/24/

67-1/9÷70-

who it do further rogue toil tele nor here enters, o

Select Committee for the examination of latent prints

resulting from the MURKIN investigation, be afforded access

to these original lingerprint cards during evening and

weekend hours where possible.

122 SET 80 1978

Your cooperation in this matter will be greatly..

appreciated.

Sincerely,

2. Rober Blobey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-1194240

GRB: meh

62 SEP 279978Pon Heller

it isosal Doited: 32989740 "Page las:

---

## Page 87

113

ESPARTMENT OF MUSTASS

TICURELU CHIESTRATEN

1-13-78

UNCLAS EFTO

ROUTINE

EM DIRECTOR_ FBI 662-1172903

TO LEGAL ATTACHE MEXICO CITY ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

LHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS ESCAL

RE: BUTEL TO MEXICO CITY, SEPTEMBER LA 1978; MEXICO CITY

TELEPHONE CALL TO BUREAU, SEPTEMBER 7. 1978.

ON SEPTEMBER 12, 1978, GERALD HAMILTON, HSCA, ADVISED THAT

COMMITTEE WAS AGREEABLE TO CHANGE IN PROPOSED DATE OF INTERVIEW

_OF SPECIAL AGENT JOHN J. FOARDE, JR. HAMILTON STATED THAT

COMMITTEE NOW DESIRES STAFF INTERVIEW TO BE CONDUCTED AT

_10:00 A.M., SEPTEMBER 28, 19781 AT HSCA OFFICE, 3331 HOUSE

OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2, WASHINGTON, D. C- THIS IS THE OLD

_IDENTIFICATION BUILDING, LOCATED AT 3RD AND D STREETS, S.W.,

WASHINGTON, D.C.

SPECIAL AGENT RONALD HELLER, LEGAL LIAISON AND

CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS UNITI LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISIONS ADVISED THAT

LB:PFM: {21

1 - LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

ATTN: MR. HELLER

I - INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

ATTN:

LIAISON DESK

J. - MR. RYAN

1 - MR. FOSTER

HH 55032

66 SEP 28 1978 CV

DecId: 32989740 Page 87

-X: 11-313-78

1 8988/4

3683

REG89 62 SEE, NOTE PAGE IHRETT

TEZ

1172-7

CoM.orGatons section

SEP 14 1978

SEP 13 1978

23:92

154E18

ALL INFCTIATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IN UNULASSIFIED

---

## Page 88

777995

CEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDALDUPRAU OF INVESTIGATIO::

COMMUN CATION M38506380291

PAGE TWO DE HQ 01I3 UNCLASE FIO

LEGAL BRIEFING WILL BE TELEPHONICALLY PROVIDED SPECIAL AGENT

FOARDE PRIOR TO DATE OF INTERVIEW•

1111:09

... 1.

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 88

---

## Page 89

Teletype

To: Legal Attache Mexico 21t3

Fm:

irector,

VOTE: Staff member Hamilton, HSCA, initially indicated that

above-referenced telephone call, indicated that the proposec

schedule and the date of

September 28, 1978, would be agreeable with his commitments.

- 3-

WW 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 89

---

## Page 90

105

ESPARTMENT CE JUSTIES

FEDECAI DUNBAU OF I ESTIGATI2*

MMUNCTR4M0S96627060

9-14-78

: UNCLAS EFT O

#FLOSURR ATUDE HQ M0105 257÷M0YEXR 142049Z SEP 78

ROUTINE

"LEM DIRECTOR_FBI {62-117270}

TO FBI ATLANTA ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS EFTO

PHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAI

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR., BY LETTER

DATED SEPTEMBER &, 1978, REQUESTED DELIVERY SON A LOAN BASIST

OF THE ORIGINAL PIEDMONT LAUNDRY SLIP WHICH IS BELIEVED TO BE

IN

THE POSSESSION OF THE ATLANTA FIELD OFFICE.

BUREAU INDICES SEARCH REVEALS THAT REQUESTED LAUNDRY

SLIPS ARE LOCATED IN ATLANTA MURKIN SERIAL 44-2386-1A28•

IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST, ATLANTA SHOULD MARK

_AFORESAID SERIAL AS EVIDENCE AND SUBMIT BY REGISTERED MAIL TO

FBI HEADQUARTERS WITH THE NOTATION "HAND CARRY TO SPECIAL AGENT

RICHARD -6. BUSCHING ROOM 87881 CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT..

1 - MR. MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

I - MR. BASSETT

- MR. FOSTER

• - MR. BUSCHING

1-14-78

REC-89

EX-137

•EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

8988/4

3683

62-117290

SEP 1 4 1978

1

TELEPYPE

1/74

SEP 18 1978

2989740 Pade 90

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

LIST IS CULTHLE

AT2S12818е Вкручентк

---

## Page 91

7-45=73

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

IRESPALDERZAU CERNVESTSATIDN

PAGE TWO DE HQ 0105 UNCLAS E FIO _

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION".

.BT

'Allo: 11 101: 01

+- --==----1------

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 91

---

## Page 92

MAILED 3

...

FEDERAL GOVERNMEN

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention:

Fix. Robert L. Keuch

Director, FBI

September 14, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

HOUSE SELECT COM JITICE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESEIIATIVES (HSCA)

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

rich the tid Aust estacation Into the assassina con oction

Ds. Martin Luther King, Jr., material relating to five (5)

subjects.

Specifically, the HSCA requested information

pertaining to John Lorry Ray: Eurgess Audie Wilson; Alexander

Anthony Elet; the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee

(SuCC); and cortain photographs.

Inclosed are an original and one copy of a mero-

randun with an attachrent in partial rosponse to above-refcrenced

loiter. It is requested that dolivery be nade of a copy of

the memorandum and the attachment to the ESCA.

Inclosures (3)

ALL TIDIOTOT CONTATNED

pfm

" (6)

62-117290

EX-137

$41:10-1675

NOTE: In

1978

response to Butel to st. Louls, -31-10, to Louls

furnished a copy of their file regarding

E°P;

00:

"John Larry Ray, ...

St. Louis (SL 76-4797)".

This file was processed

sand is being furnished per Committee request.

22

SeT

21:978

SEP

The Committee requested the Jackson Field OTTICe

file regarding Burgess Audie Wilson, who recently alleged he

was involved in the assassination of Dr. King. It was explained

to Gerald Hamilton, HSCA, that Jackson was only circumstantially

Assoc. Dir. _

Dep. AD Adm. _

involved in this investigation. Hamilton orally modified

Dep. AD Inv. -

above-referenced letter to request, only the fBI Headquarters

Asst. Dir.:

file on Wilson.

Investigation in this matter is still being

Adm. Servs. — conducted and Is being included in the MURKIN file (44-38861).

cin.lor. - No material is being made available until the investigation is

-completed.

This is being coordinated with Special Agent

Laboratory-

Legal Coun. -

_Ha] N, Helterhoff, Division S1x.

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. _

ENCLOSURE

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO.

Tech. Servs. -

Public Afts. Off.

Telephone Rm.

- 885 1

MA

Do gu P29 1910891

57

FBI/DOJ

DOCId:32989740 Page

---

## Page 93

Assistant Attorney General

Crininal Division

The HSCA requested, In Item 4, the Memphis Field

Offico filos for SHCC. In response to lutel to Hemphis,

8-30-78, Memphis furnished all rotrievable materlal for the

time perlod in question.

Lastly, the HSCA requeried certain information re

carding photorraphs of latent fingerprints that had previourly

been furnished. Michael Lberhardt, Hsch, advised that an the

Cormittee-retained fingerprint export had resigned and the

new experts found no problem with the photorraphs, thore was

no need to act on this particular requost.

- 2=

HH 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page 93

---

## Page 94

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

Aten: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr.

Foster

September 14, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE OT ASSASSINATIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (JISCA)

Reference Is made to the letter to the Attorney

General from G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director,

HSCA, dated August 23, 1978, Which requested, in connection

with the usta's investigation into the assassination of

• lartin Lucher king, Jr,, material relatina to five (5

subjects.

Specifically, the HSCA requested information

pertaining to John Larry Ray; Burgess Audie Wilson; Alexander

Anthony Dist; the Student Hon-Violent Coordinating Conmittce

(SHTCC); and certain photographs.

Attached is the St. Louis Field Office file on

the recent fugitive case involving John Larry Ray.

With respect to Item 2 In above-referenced letter,

as discussed with ISCA Staff member Gerald Hamilton,

the

Jackson Field Office was only tangentially involved in this

natter.

. In lieu of the Jackson Field Office file, the file

at FBI

Headquarters (FBIHQ) will be processed; however, this

Is currently a pending matter and processing will be held in

abeyance until Investigation is completed.

This 15 to advise that no retrievable information

was located pertaining to Alexander Anthony Eist for the

period in question.

POET AAOCO

14ng

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs..

Crim. Inv..

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y

HH 55032

Committee (SICC) have been processed and are available for

review at FBIHQ.

Finally, this is to confirn a conversation between

Special Agent Tron W. Breike and Ilichael Eberhardt, HSCA,

during which fir. Eberharat advised that there would be no

need to address the last item In above-referenced letter, as

¿the Cormittee

has hired nett, latept fingerprint experts.

TWB: 61m 468l,ls

62-117790

ORIGINAI AND LOW"SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAI,

marlosure (ICRIMINAL DIVISION: ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH. •

NOTE!' Stepirector, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch,

dated September 14, 1978, captioned as above.

6111929-

MAIL ROOM

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

D/CTeP 32089740

Page 94

---

## Page 95

DUIS STOKTA, OHIO,

A •4

WAXI, CALIF.

DEVINE, OHIO

СТІНАЙТ В, МС КІМНГУ, ООНН.

CHAALIS THONI, MIAR.

HAROLD 8.

SAWYER, MIC.

FORD,

TENN.

FLOYDI. FITHIAN, IVO.

W. DOGAR, FA.

"Seleti Committee on Assassinations

(802) 225-8826

ME. House of Representatives

ASSI HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

Rec: office of corgiessional Affairs

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20515

7928.

August 23, 1978

8-29-75

T

Brekke;

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice:

Washington, :D. C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Rober't Keuch

Deputy Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney

General:

In connection with the ongoing investigation by this

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the death of

DI. Martin Luther King, JI, the assistance of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation is requested in regard to the

following matters.

Prepare for delivery the 'St. Louis Field Office

file pertaining to the recent fugitive case

(August 21 - 22, 1978) concerning John Larry Ray.

Make access available to the Jackson Field Office

files pertaining to Burgess Audie Wilson.

Make access available to all information pertain-

int to sexander Anthony flat. formerly with to

JEK Act 6 (4)

(Period: 1967-

• 1968)

Make access available to the Memphis Field Office

ating Committee

1968 through May 31, 1968.

Finally, by letter dated March 23, 1978 to the Attorney

General, this Committee requested photographic copies of ali

latent fingerprints collected in the MURKIN investigation.

Subsequently, by letter dated April 13, 1978 to the Chief

Counsel of the Committee, the FBI responded, and furnished

the requested photographs. During the course of our examina-

tion of these photographs, the Committee's fingerprint

identification expert has concluded that some of the photo-

graphs are of insufficient quality to make an adequate review.

ENCLOSURE 62-117390-1175

HH 55032 DocId:32909740 Page 95

---

## Page 96

Page 2.

The Connittee therefore requests that the Bureau review :

the duplicates of those photographs furnished, in order to

determine if better quality copies can be produced.….

Otherwise, the Committee would suggest as an alternative

method of examination...review of the original latent

lifts.

Your-continued cooperation and prompt attention in

these matters

is sincerely appreciated.

Very truly yours,

2. Robes Blake

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB: ghb

cc: Ron Heller

NW 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 96

---

## Page 97

....

SEP 1

SODERAL GOVERNMENS

Assistant Attornoy General

Crininal Division

Attention: Iir. Robert I. Keuch

Director, FBI

Septerber 15, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COLMITTEE OT ASSASSINATIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

I - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr. Bassett

1 - Mr.. Foster

1 - Mr. Busching

Reference is made to letter to the Attorney General

Irom G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated

August T, 1978, which, in connection with the HSCA's Investi-

cation into the assassination of lartin Luther King, Jr.,

advised that the Cormittee had obtained authorization to be

furnished any and all Information maintained by the FBI

concerning and/or reccived from the Honorable Ambassador Young

during the period march 1, 1900, through June 1, 1908. Submittoo

with the letter was Ambassador Young's release of a request

that the FBI make availablc all Headquarters and Field Office

files and subfiles of any nature pertaining to Ambassador

Young for the period enumerated.

By letter to the Attorney General from G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated August 21, 1978,

the above request was modified from making avallable aforesaid

Intornation to delivery of it.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandur

responding to the above request.

It is requested that you

furnish a copy of the enclosed memorandum to the HSCA.

Enclosures (2)

64137

82-117290,

RCB:pfm

" (7)

REC89 60 11'9: 49 - 1876

K-EM

1303430K

22 SEP 21 1978

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

ENCLOSURE

Laboratory -

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Insp. THY

ech.

Training

ublic Alis. Off. —

Telephone Rm..

1033 SE PolE 193009 710

12 1.61

* 13%

Mir.

it tet fi-

R 3659

FBI/DOJ

Page 97

---

## Page 98

21.=

1 - Mr. Mintz

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Mr.

Bassett

1 - Mr.

Foster

1-

Mr. Busching

September 15, 1978

HOUSE SELECI COMITTEE ON ASSASSILAIIONS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

Meierence is made to letter to the Attorney General,

IronG. robert Blakey, Chiel counsel and sirector, hach, dateo

August

T,. 1978, which, in connection with the HSCA's Investi

sation

into the assassination of hartin luther ling, dis

advised that the Committee had obtained authorization to be

furnished any and all information maintained by the FBI

concerning and/or received from the Honorable Anbassador Young

during the perlod larch 1, 1968, through June 1, 1968.

Submitted with the letter

was Ambassador Young's release of

a request that the FBI make available all Headquarters and

Field Office files and subfiles of any nature pertaining to

Ambassador Young for the period enumerated.

By letter to the Attorney General from G. Robert

Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA, dated August 21,

1978, the above request was nodified from making available

aforesaid information to delivery of It.

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. -

Intell.

-aborator

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt..

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

HH 55032

DooId: 32989740

Items delivered to lIstA representative leslie wizelman on

September 13, 1970, Aloresald Items were retrieved Inom

FBI Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia, and Memphis, lenneẞsee,

Meld Office files.

Where information is not provided, it is elther not

retrievable or 1s not being produced pursuant to the

"Memorandun of Understanding"

This letter completes our response to HSCA requests

of August 7, 1978, and August 21, 1978.

RCB:pfm (7)

127044790

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT I. KEUCH

NOTE:

Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

Septempo 15, 197, captioned a above

Attention: Mr. Robert I. Keuch, dated

12.119

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

Page 98

---

## Page 99

SEDERAL COVERNETI

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal DIvision

Attention: in Robert i leuch

Director, FBI

0

HOUSE SELECT COMMINIEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

U. 5. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

September 20, 1978

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Identification Div.

Attn: Mr. Payne

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, HSCA,

dated Septerber 13, 1978, which requested, In connection with

the ISCA's investigation

into the assassination of Dr. Hartin

Luther kinG, Jr, that three (3) Metropolitan Police Departnent

officers be provided access to the original fingerprint cards

possessed by the FBI on six Individuals.

These six individuals

are:

James Earl Ray; Jerry William Ray; John Larry Ray;

Randolph Rosenson; Gus Prosch; and Jesse B. Stoner.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memo

randum in response to the above-referenced letter. It 13

requested that delivery be nade of one copy of the mcmorandun

to the SCA.

S. Banner, Identification Division, it was decided that

to the fingerprint cards would be provided to the three

MAILED 6

Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) officers referred to

mabove. Access would be provided from Monday through Friday,

3:00 a.m. until midnight; however, it would not be possible

to

nave Identification personnel available to assist the MPD

SA Payne stated that if the

officers desired access to the fingerprint cards after normal

Supervisor Francis M. Leapley:

Extention 2163,

make an employee available

Assoc. Dir. _

to assist those officers.

REC89

Dep. AD Adm..

20-737

Asst. Dis.:

Ds DiES 102-717290

• i

631173901

1177

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv. -

Ident. -

23

SEP 22 1978

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp. -

Rec. Mgnt. -

2

_ ENCLOSE.

La 5128/7807

рубитка

Tech. Servs. -

Training

+ 3

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

Ma !!:

GOSEP 29 197800M 1

HH 55032

Doc Id: 32989740

Bo sari

Page 99

Pris

FET/DOS

---

## Page 100

1 - Legal Counsel Div.

Attn: Mr. Heller

1 - Identification Div.

Attn: Mr. Payne

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Septerber 20, 1978

LOUSE DELECI COMITIDE OU ASOASSINNTIONS

U,S, ROUSE OF TEPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

rotoronce is made to tha letter to the nttorney

cenerad iron G. NObcrt BLakOy

trith tho ESCA'o Investigation into the assassination of

Ds. Fortin Luther King, In, that three (3) Ictropolltan

Folloc Dopartrent (TiPD) officers be provided access to the

official fingerprint cardo posuessed by the Fat on six

Indiviäualo.

Those siz individualo aro:

Janes Larl Roy;

Jerry WillIon Fay; John Larry Roy; Randolph Rosenson: Gus

Frocch; and Josse D. Stonor.

This monorandun is to advise that IIPD officers

Hormon Inith, Darroll Iinville, and lay Holbrook vill be riven

access to all the original fingerprint carde requested above*

Thesc fingerprint cards boy be revicued at FBI Hcadquarters

(TCIIO) fron Honday throuch Friday, 8:00 a.n. until nidnicht;

horover, 1i will not be possible to allow access to those

fingerprint cards during reckonds.

It is requested that, if at all posaible, the ll!

orticors telophonically contact sa ton l trelie, congressional

Inquiry Unit, Extention 3685, during nomal vorking hours

(8:00 a.n.-5:30 p.I.) DrIon to arrival at IBIllO to review tho

fIngerprint cards.

This tould facilliate in rolainc arrango-

ronts to have on Fal coployco avellablo to assiot thosc

offlecrs upon their arrival.

WB:pfm (7)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L, KEUCH.

NOTE:

See Director, FBI, letter to Assistant Attorney General,

criminal Division:

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch, dated

September 20, 1978, captioned as above.

62-117290

- =e

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm..

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim: Inv.

Ident..

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm.

Director's Sec'y

55032

MAIL ROOM

DocId:32989740

Page 100

6 1979

FEI/DOJ

---

## Page 101

WALTEE L FAUATROY, D.E.

YVONNE NRATHIMANTI SURKE, CALF.

CHRISTOPHIA 1, DOOD, COMM.

MANOLD B. FORD, TENN.

FLOTO S. FITMIAN, INO.

NORANT W. LORAR, PA.

SAMUI. К. ОКИЇНІ, ОНЮ

ATTWANT & UC KINNEY, CONAL.

CHARLES ТНОНІ, NEBR.

MAROLD B. SAMIR, MICH.

(902) 227-1626

•

Delect Committee on Assassinations

H.DD. Ipouse of Representatibes

SUI HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C, 20315

September 13, 1978

9-15-76

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy

Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear MI. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

Department officers Norman Smith, Darrell Linville and

Ray Holbrook to all original fingerprint cards possessed

by the FBI on the following

subjects:

1) James Earl Ray, FBI #405942G

2) Jerry William

Ray, FBI #862651A

3) John Larry Ray, FBI #368-725A

Randolph Rosenson, FBI #34-711E

5)

Gus Prosch, dob 11/17/30

6) Jesse B. Stoner, dob 4/18/24

It is further requested that the above-named officers,

who will be serving as fingerprint consultants to the

Select Committee for the examination of latent prints

resulting from the MURKIN investigation, be afforded acces:

to these original fingerprint cards during evening ani

GRB : meh

XC :

Ron Heller

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 101

Your cooperation in this matter will be greatly

appreciated.

sincerely,

12. Robex Blobey

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and

Director

ENCLOSIN

71-10ai0-11979

---

## Page 102

*106

DEPARIMEAT CE JUSTICE

PaRDON CODERH CEESTLOATION

MESEOCEROUR

- 9-14-78

UNCLAS EFT O

FELOGURR SLODE HQ NOLO6 257÷M0YEOR 142050Z SEP 78

ROUTINE

LEM DIRECTOR FBI {62-117290}

LTO FBI ST. LOUIS ROUTINE

BT

':LUNCLAS EFTO

PHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAF

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 21, 1978.

THE HSCAT WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATIONS OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR., BY LETTER,

11l!

DATED SEPTEMBER 8, 1978, REQUESTED ACCESS TO ALL AVAILABLE

-REFERENCES AND FILES, BUREAU FILES AND FIELD OFFICE, ON A

-ST. LOUIS ORGANIZATION NAMED THE VEILED PROPHET: THE LETTER

-ALSO REQUESTED ACCESS TO ANY ROSTERS OF AGENTS FOR THE ST. LOUIS

_FIELD OFFICE FOR THE YEARS 1967, 1968 AND 1974.

PARTIAL SEARCH OF BUREAU INDICES REVEALS THAT THE VEILED

_PROPHET APPEARS TO BE A PRIVATE ORGANIZATION MADE UP OF

INDIVIDUALS IN THE HIGHER SOCIAL AND FINANÇIAL STRATA OF THE

ST. LOUIS AREA.

ALL, INFORMATICN CONTAINED

LUSIN IS LACLAESIAIE

1x2512884

ВАрЕШтікЕ

•7-14-78.

8.708/2

3683

48/22/28.

1 - MR. MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

- MR. BASSETT

- MR. FOSTER-

- MR. BUSCHING

REC-40

FEDERAL BUKEAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

S216

62-117 240-1182

17

SEP 18 1978

moteS EP, 29 1978

DocId: 329897

Page 102

---

## Page 103

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL DUREAU OFIRLESTS0EN

COMMUNICATION MESS4O3 COUM

CONTINU 30.221

2121

PAGE TWO DE HO 0106 UNCLAS E FIO

IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST, ST. LOUIS SHOULD REVIEW

INDICES TO IDENTIFY ALL RETRIEVABLE INFORMATION IDENTIFIABLE

WITH THE VEILED PROPHET AND FURNISH FBI HEADQUARTERS EFBIHQ} ONE

LEGIBLE COPY OF EACH SERIAL.

ST. LOUIS SHOULD ALSO FORWARD ANY RETRIEVABLE ROSTERS OF

LAGENTS FOR THE REQUESTED YEARS.

ALL MATERIAL SHOULD BE FORWARDED BY COVER AIRTEL TO FBIHQ

_ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT

I_LDIVISION.

_BT

•HW 55032 DocId:32989740

Page 103

---

## Page 104

B 070959Z SEP 78

EM LONDON (88-228)

TO DIRECTOR (62- 117290)

BT

7 SEP 78.10

162

PRIORITY

RECEIVED

910-97

FEDERAL BUREAU

•OF INVESTIGATION

COMHUNICATIONS SECTION

Assos. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. 1D 15%.

Asst. Dir:

Arm. Gary CA

Cris. Inv

Intel

Latis sigfy

Load "019.

Pior, & Into

gus.

UNCLAS EFT O

Pubile Afis. ON.

telephone Ri.

Blractor's Sed'y

MURKIN®

RELONTEL 8/22/78.115?

(in insanitar.

IT WOULD BE APPRECIATED IF BUREAU WOULD ADVISE BY RETURN

TEL AS TO REQUEST MADE CONCERNING PAYMENT OF $200. 00 FOR

STENOGRAPHIC FEE INCURRED BY STAFF MEMBERS, HUA, DURING PERIOD

THEY WERE IN LONDON.

YCERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, WILLING TO PAY FEE BUT MUST HAVE

A FUNDS CITATION IN ORDER IO KNOW WHO TO CHARGE FOR THIS AMOUNT.

PLEASE ADVISE.

;:!'

BT

E.137

REC-70

62-117291-1183

17 SEP 20 1978

ALI, INFORMATIO! CONTAINED

D. 53578 pyrame

HIH

550366 SEP 29 1978€

DocId:32989740

Page 104

4 giley in

---

## Page 105

-101

A

DETACRRENT CELUSTICE

CALDUEEN CHEST

SUCTIONE SASHEENA

2

9-18-78

UNCLAS EFT O

PRIORTY

FM DIRECTOR FBI {62-1172907

TO LEGAL ATTACHE LONDON PRIORTYA

BT

UNCLAS EF TO

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS EHSCAJ

RE LEGAT LONDON TELETYPE TO BUREAU DATED SEPTEMBER 7, 19781

CAPTIONED MURKIN.

ON SEPTEMBER 18. 1978, HSCA REPRESENTATIVE MICHAEL

EBERHARDT ADVISED THAT BY PRIOR ARRANGEMENTS MADE WITH THE

AMERICAN EMBASSY, LONDON, STENOGRAPHIC EXPENSES AS OUTLINED IN

REFERENCED TELETYPE WOULD BE PAID BY THE HSCA. EBERHARDT STATED

THE EMBASSY SHOULD BE ADVISED TO FORWARD STENOGRAPHIC BILL TO

THE HSCA, U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, WASHINGTON, D. C.

20515•

LEGAT FURNISH ABOVE INFORMATION TO APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS

AT EMBASSY.

BT Y

HB/DR/8P

: PFM

{2}

I - INTELLIGENCE

DIVISION

ATTN:

MR -

J. S. LEO

1 - MR. FOSTER

9-18-78

1 8788/4

3683

3

SEE NOTE PAGE THREE...

FEDERAL BUREAU OF AVESTINATEA

BA-10

COMMUNICATIONS REG-7O

62-112213-1184

ALL INFOPEARTOY COITAINED

Darisper a

SEP 19 19/8

57 SEP

20 1978

In 86aS Eldea 1979110 Page 105

TELETYPE

---

## Page 106

EEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEE3RAI DUTEAU OOINVESTIGATON

CC"LMUNICAT.ON MESSAGBFO7E

ConTeauAno: sycaT

-. -

1a: 0 1.:

-

..'

НН 55032 DooId:32989740

Paue

' 106

---

## Page 107

tor

=..

TELETYPE

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62-117290)

TO LEGAL ATTACHE LONDON PRIORTY

NOTE: In connection with the investigation into the

Jr., the AsCA incurre

Referenced teletype requested FBI Headquarters

London regarding planned disposition of this debt by the

- 3 -

55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 107

---

## Page 108

141

COPARTMENT OF JUSTIES

TROLDLEAD 070 E5040

CAN STEE MESSASUEEMN

9-19-78

UNCLAS EF TO

ROUTINE

#F14LORR BH JN AT NO LAUDE HQ MOL41 262 HEYETR 192123Z SEP 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI £62-117290}

TO FBI BIRMINGHAM ROUTINE

• FBI JACKSON ROUTINE

CA. FBI ATLANTA ROUTINE

FBI NEW ORLEANS ROUTINE

FBI LOS ANGELES ROUTINE

ALL INFCRMATTON CONTAINED

HE23=

¡UNCLAS EFT O

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAI

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 26, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING. JR. REQUESTED BY

LETTER DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1978, ACCESS TO ALL BUREAU FILE

MATERIAL AS WELL AS MATERIAL FROM THE FIELD OFFICES OF

BIRMINGHAM, JACKSON, ATLANTA, NEW ORLEANS AND LOS ANGELES,

ON THE CITIZENS COUNCIL OF AMERICA FOR THE YEARS 1967-1968.

IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT THE CITIZENS COUNCIL OF AMERICA IS A

iRCB: PFM

12}

I - MR.

MINTZ

ATTN: MR. HELLER

1 - MR. FOSTER

1 - MR. BUSCHING

À6 SEP 291978 @V

HH 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 108

7-47-10

REC-7Q

EDERAL BOU SE

¿oUR CATIONS 926100

SEP 2 0 1978

DS0155Z

• TELET

8788/4

3683

62-112.590

9 SEP 20 1978

1185

---

## Page 109

DEPARTMENT CE JUSTICE

FEEL RESU CHINESEGATCH

COMMUNE ATON MESSHOEFOON,

CONTENUATION.

PAGE TWO DE HR 0141 UNCLAS EF TO

SEPARATE ORGANIZATION FROM THE WHITE CITIZENS COUNCIL.

RECIPIENT OFFICES FURNISH FBI HEADQUARTERS TWO COPIES OF

ANY COMMUNICATION MEETING ABOVE CRITERIA. ALL COPIES SHOULD

BE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT BY REGISTERED MAILI

MAILED TO THE ATTENTION OF THE CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT-

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION.

---+-------------

00:01li..1111!e.

1N 55032 DocId:32989740

Page 109

w---------------=

---

## Page 110

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRS

SAMUE

STEWA

CHARLES ONE, NEBR.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

(202) 225-4624

Ree cro..

9/22/28

INDERAI GOVERMIHNE

Select Committee on Assassinations

H.S. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 21, 1978

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20515

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery the serials identified by

House Select Committee on Assassinations staff

17/2

member Barbara Robinson in Volumes 1 through 6

of the Atlanta Field Office MURKIN File.

2)

Prepare for delivery the materials previously prepared

for access pertaining to George Russell Byers, as per

House Select Committee on Assassinations request of

August 9, 1978.

3)

Prepare for delivery the following serials from the

Atlanta United Klans of America files:

157-370-2-579,

590, 546, 591, 514 and 561 p. 4-11.

As time is extremely crucial in these matters your prompt

attention is appreciated.

81-137 REC-70

Very truly yours,

1186

SEP 26 19/U

GRB: ghh

Vxc:

Mr. Ron Heller

tro gui: 29 1978

HH

55032 Bocta:323654549ge 110

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

62-117290

---

## Page 111

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIF

RICHARDSON PREYER, N.C.

SAMUI

SEVINE, OHIO

WALTER E, FAUNTROY, D.G.

STEWAR MCKINNEY, CONN.

VONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALI

CHARLES THONE, NEBR,

IRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONI

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HAROLD E, FORD, TENN.

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

4 ROBERT V. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

FADERAL GOVERANENT

(Select Committee on Assassinations

U.S. House of Representatibes

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 22, 1978

9/22/26

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

ATTENTION: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with its investigation into the

circumstances surrounding the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the Select Committee requests the

assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation with

regard to the following matter:

Prepare for delivery the following serials:

Chicago Field Office File 44-1114:

Sub G, Serial 2

Sub H, Section 1, Serial

3

Sub H, Section 1, Serial 17

Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly

appreciated.

Sincerely,

X. Robert Blakey

G. Robert Blakey

EX-137 Chief Counsel and Director

REC-7Q

Ron Heller

42-117290

121222

SEP 26 1J78

1187

66 SEP 29197881

Great as reginal

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 111

---

## Page 112

(.*)

FEDERAL COPERATUSNA

Assistant Attorney

• General

Criminal Division

Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Director,

NBI

HOUSE sELECT COTICE ON ASSASSINAIONS

U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (HSCA)

September 8, 1978

I - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Bailey

1 - Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

Reference is made to the letter to the Attorney

General

• from &. Robert Blakey, thief Counsel and Director,.

isch, dated August 21, 1970, which requested, in connectior

the ASCA's investiration into the assassination of

Dr. Martin Iuther King, Jr., that all material pertaining to

Joe Parish, Belle Chasse, Louisiana, in the files of FBI Head-

quarters and the lew Oricans Tield Office be made available.

Enclosed are an original and one copy of a memorandun

in response to the above-referenced letter. It is requested

that delivery of a copy of this memorandum be made to the

Inclosures (2)

62-117290

MERA TIED

(7)

NOTE: By teletype dated 8/29/78, New Orleans was requested to

furnish all retrievable information regarding Joe Parish. New

Orleans furnished this material, all of which was located in

New Orleans file 157-10673, by

airtel dated 8/31/78.

*- 137

*CLOSURE

REC 32

62.17213-189

5

SEP DR 1978

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training -

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm.

MAILED

1

ZEb

EF!T

WETUN : UOCH

1 265 Ladd

H3)E

DocId: 32989711

Page

112

MAR RIC

R. 5057

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 113

1 - Legal Counsel Division

(Attn: Mr. Heller)

1 - Mr. Bailey

1

- Mr. Ryan

1 - Mr. Foster

September 8, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSIHARIOLIS

U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESEIIAIIVES (HSCA)

Reference is nade to the letter to the Attorney

General fron G. Fobert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Diractor,

ESCA, dated August 21, 1978, which requested, In connection

with

the uSCh's investiration into the assassination of

Dr. Martin luther ling, Jr., that all material pertaining to

Parish, Belle Chasse, Louisiana, in the files of FBI

headquarters (abita, and

the New Oricans Field Office be

nade available.

This 1o to advise that all retrievable information

In the files of Ibl Headquanters and the llew Orleans Field

Office pertaining to Joe Parish has been processod and 15

available for review at IBIHQ.

62-117290

(7)

ORIGINAL AND ONE SENT TO ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL,

CRIMINAL DIVISION, ATTENTION: MR. ROBERT L. KEUCH.

NOTE: See Director, FBI, letter to the Assistant Attorney

General, Criminal Division, Attention: Mr. Robert L. Keuch,

dated September 8, 1978, captioned as above.

* = 7

5128/x4-

Assoc. Dir..

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inve

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan. & Insp.

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telephone Rm..

Director's Sec'y -

HH 55032

MAIL ROOM LE

DocId: 32989740

Page 113

ZES !

68-118380°

ENCLOSURE

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 114

140

12.9

DEPARTMENT CE JUSTICE

coutrtu.2.tow108502309.4

9-19-78

UNCLAS EFTO

$FZ4OURR MENDE HQ MOL40 262÷M0YEUR 192122Z SEP 78

ROUTINE

FM DIRECTOR FBI {62-117290}

TO FBI MEMPHIS ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS E F TO

CHOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS CHSCAL

BUREAU DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 26, 1978.

THE HSCA, WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., REQUESTED BY LETTER

DATED SEPTEMBER 12, 1978, THAT THEY BE PROVIDED THE NAMES OF

ALL FBI PERSONNEL, UHO MAY HAVE BEEN PRESENT ETHAT IS, ALL j

PERSONS NOT ASSIGNED TO THE MEMPHIS FIELD OFFICES IN SHELBY

COUNTY DURING THE PERIOD COVERING MARCH LO, 1968, THROUGH

APRIL 4, 1968. THEY ALSO REQUESTED THE FBI PREPARE FOR

DELIVERY ANY AND ALL MATERIALS OR COMMUNICATIONS GENERATED BY

ANY SUCH PERSONS AS DISCUSSED ABOVE. TO DATE, A SEARCH OF

RETRIEVABLE INFORMATION AT FBI HEADQUARTERS HAS FAILED

TO

ASCERTAIN ANY FBI PERSONNEL OTHER THAN

READE ASSIGNED

5-110940-10

TO THE

72 SEP 2Q.1978

9-19-78 8988/4

3683

H3/DR/10

RCB : PIM

{2}

1 - MR.

MINTZ

ATTN: MR.

HELLER

1

- MR. FOSTER

I - MR. BUSCHING

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS, SECTION

SEP 2 0 1978

0220

THEYDE

ALL I'

Dar SpasTe

-M CRITAINED

IED

540CT 3

1978

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740

Page 114

---

## Page 115

DEPARIMENT OF JUSTICE

FERRARISM SAU COCVESTIONTION

COMMUNICATION MESSIESEEC

2

CONTRUCTION SHEET

PAGE TUO DE HQ D140 UNCLAS ELF TO

MEMPHIS FIELD OFFICE IN SHELBY COUNTY DURING THE PERIOD

COVERING MARCH 10. 1968, THROUGH APRIL 4. 1968-

MEMPHIS THROUGH REVIEW OF FIELD OFFICE FILES ATTEMPT

TO RETRIEVE ANY INFORMATION MEETING ABOVE CRITERIA.

BT

-a-....

HH 55032 DooId:32989740

Page 115

23.:0.ee.

---

## Page 116

.: g

FD-36 (Rev: 2-14-74)

* FBI

Date:

9/21/78

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Precedence)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

ATTN: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT,

RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION

FROM:

SAC, BIRMINGHAM (66-2280) (RUC)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

ReButel, 9/19/78, re Citizens Council of America.

Birmingham file 157-388 captioned, "Citizens Council

of America" contains 29 serials, only one

of which falls

within the years 1967-1968.

Two copies of that serial,

an article from the 7/17/68 issue of "The Birmingham News"

are enclosed.

"The Birmingham News" is a daily newspaper

published in

• Birmingham Alabama.

7

..

AEL IT00

D.155/28/36

- MAMATED

LUD

111: 1, 1192

17 SEP 23 1978

ALB: bhn

(3:).

Bureau (Enc. 2 ENCLOSURE

lenamaintained

in Rm 8988

RCB

54G07

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

HH 55032 DocId: 32989740 Page 116

Sent .

_M Per

GPO: 1975 O - 590-992

---

## Page 117

FD-350' (REva 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

(indicate page, name of

newspaper, city and state.)

1.

$500 Worth Of What?

The Citizens Council of America,

ing of the basic principle of constitu-

which used to be called the White

tional government and

the

basic

Citizens Council, is an organization

premises of a free society."

which; despite the dropping of the

He said that the commission hopes

racial adjective, still seems primarily

to get other viewpoints, but acknowl-

interested in promoting white -su-

edged that "our objective in this case

premacy.

is not to get a controlled response,

The

Alabama State Sovereignty

but one that will reflect a conserva-

Commission is a legislatively created

tive viewpoint."

: agency which spends $100,000 a year

In other words, the Citizens Coun-

from the public treasury.

Executive Secretary

Eli

cil is getting tax money to conduct a

Howell's

"survey" to establish

a predeter-.

rationalization notwithstanding,

the

mined position-which is a curious

Sovereignty Commission's spending

way to conduct a poll, even aside

of $500 for a survey to be conducted

from the questionable allocation of

by the Citizens Council (with another

public funds.

$500 still to be spent) is highly ques-

If

the

Sovereignty Commission

tionable use of tax funds, some por-

wants a conservative view on consti-

: tion of. which is paid by Negro citi-

tutional government, etc., it can get

: zens of Alabama.

it from people a whole lot more qual-

Hovell said the Citizens Council is

ified as conservative spokesmen than

to conduct a survey "on specific ques-

lions related to a general understand-

the Citizens Council; and it can get

it a whole lot cheaper.

IL THE BERMNGHAN

NEWS

- BIRMINGHAM POST-

HFRALD

-=-

BIRMINGTAN, ALABARIA

Date: 7-17-68

Edition: Metro

Author:

Editor:

John Ii. Bloomer

Title:

Citizens

Council of America

Character:

145-3:x1

Classification:

Submitting Office:

RIRMTNCHAM

• Being Invesilgated

05-388-23

SEARCHED

_ INCEXED ..

SERIALIZED

_FILED

JUL 1 8 1968

FBI - BIRMINGHAM

61 117290-11121

ENCLOSURR

NN 55032 DoeId: 32989710

---

## Page 118

TO

..

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTRONAL FORM. NO. 10'

JULY $973 EDITION

SSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

NITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

SAN FRANCISCO (62-

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

DATE:

8/28/78

) (BERKELEY RA)

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and

four copies of an IHM concerning this matter.

SA ROBERT F. PEVAHOUSE, Berkeley Resident Agency,

was initially contacted by Supervisor JAY L. ALDHIZER,

congressional Inquiry Unit, on 1/14/18, to advise request

had been received from MIKE EBERHARDT, Council Select

Committee on Assassinations, for telephonic interview of

SA PEVAHOUSE, which has been approved by the Bureau and

SA PEVAHOUSE

has been cleared from employment agreement

to talk with Mr. EBERHARDT.

On 7/19/78, SA PEVAHOUSE discussed this matter.

further with Supervisor RON HELLER, Legal Counsel at the

Bureau, as to potential statements concerning interview.

No further contact wàs made until Mr. EBERHARDT

telephonically contacted SA PEVAHOUSE on 8/28/78 as set

forth in enclosed LHM.

SX-137

REE 32 63-117210-1195

V

SEP 20 1971

trace

18

{*

-

Bureau (Enc. 5)"

1

San Francisco

RFP/rmc

(3)

*

61

4 1978 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HH 5503210

DooId:32989740

Pare

---

## Page 119

7, 0

In Reply, Please Refer 10

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California

August 28, 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On August 28, 1978, Special Agent (SA) Robert

F. Pevahouse, Berkeley

Resident Agency, Federal Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), was telephonically cuntacted by

Mike Eberhardt, House Select Committee on Assassinations.

He was furnished the residence address and telephone

number of SA Pevahouse.

Mr. Eberhardt inquired about the fugitive

investigation of James Earl Ray during the time

Ray

was an Unlawful Flight fugitive.

He was told SA Pevahouse

received a lead

from another office to contact Jerry Ray,

brother of James Earl Ray, who was living in Northbrook,

Illinois at the time. Jerry Ray was contacted telephon-

ically by SA Pevahouse at which time Jerry advised he had

not seen or heard from his brother since prior to his

escape from prison.

Jerry Ray also furnished information

he had concerning other members of the family, including

John Ray, none of whom were in the chicago area. It was

the recollection of SA Pevahouse that John Ray was in the

St. Louis area at the time.

SA Pevahouse could not recall

specific time of interview

as to number of months prior to

assassination of Martin Luther King.

He noted there were

no other relatives or associates of James Earl Ray inter-

viewed in the Chicago area to his knowledge.

Concerning the investigation after the assassina-

tion of Martin Luther King, Mr. Eberhardt inquired as to

knowledge of any specific records from the Sportsman's

Club in Northbrook, Illinois, to show if Jerry Ray was

working at the time of the assassination. SA Pevahouse

stated he could not recall at this late date any specific

records concerning the dates worked, but,

as he racalled,

personnel at the Sportsman's Club had indicated Jerry Ray

was there except during regular days off.

-.+

-----------

.....

-

This document

contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

-teman? (0991995D

11.

mashas

ENCLOSURE

67-117242-1115

---

## Page 120

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24-77)

TRẠNSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

Facsimile

AIRTEL

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

_ Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

I SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

EF TO

I CLEAR 9/7/78

Date

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

K

FROM

: SAC, ST. LOUIS (62-5097)

SUBJECT: HOUSE SETECT COMMITIE

ON ASSASSINATIONS - MURKIN

Enclosed herewith are four copies of an LHM

setting forth the results of a telephone interview

between former SA CLETIS B. BIDEWEIL and MICHAEL EBERHARDT,

Staff Attorney, House Select Committee on Assassinations,

Washington, D. C., on 8/31/78.

Former Agent BIDEWELL had previously been advised

in late July, 1978, by SA JAY ALDHIZER, FBIHQ, that

former Agent BIDEWELL might be contacted telephonically

EBERHARDT of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations.

Former Agent BIDEWELL, on 8/31/78, received a

telephone call at his home, 1116 Culverhill Drive,

Webster Groves, MO.

63119, telephone #962-0972, from

an individual who identified himself as MICHAEI

EBERHARD,

requesting an interview by telephone.

- Bureau (Enc.

1 - St. Louis

CBB: kam

• (3)

ASURE

4 N4

REC-125

62-117298-10957

22 SEP 9 1978

Pen 300

ALL IM

БаБлія

MIA! PAT THED

6I JAN 261979

Approved:

IN 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 120

Transmitted

Per .

(Number)

(Time)

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 121

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

St. Louis, Missouri

September

• 1978

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Former Agent Cletis B. Bidewell advised on

questioning that he had on at least one occasion inter-

viewed Carol Pepper, sister of James Earl Ray, suspect

in the assassination of Doctor Martin Luther King in

At that time, Carol Pepper was

residing in Maplewood, Missouri, and the unlawful flight

to avoid confinement case against James Earl Ray,

resulting from his escape from the Missouri State

Penitentiary, Jefferson City, Missouri, was assigned to

Special Agent (SA) Bidewell in the St. Louis Division,

At this time, no information had been developed indicat-

ing that James Earl Ray was a suspect in the murder of

Doctor King.

The interview with Carol Pepper was most

frustrating since it appeared she was completely un-

cooperative in furnishing any information concerning

possible whereabouts of James Earl Ray.

of his recollection, SA Bidewell advised that no other

Agent accompanied him on this interview and two or three young

children, presumably children of Carol Pepper, were in the

home at the time of the interview.

With respect as to how the lead to interview

that the lead was developed as a result of background

information furnished by the Kansas City Division,

office of origin in the unlawful flight to avoid confinement

case. To the best of his recollection, SA Bidewell advised

that no information was obtained through the interview of

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI, It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency

- 5130|86

62

62-117240-11457

ENCLOSUME

HN 55032 DocId:32989740 Page 121

---

## Page 122

= ==

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Pepper as to the possible whereabouts of her brother

area subsequent to his escape from Missouri State

Penitentiary in Jefferson City, Missouri.

SA Bidewell further recalled that shortly

after his interview with Carol Pepper, James Earl Ray

became the prime suspect in the Doctor King murder and

the case on James Earl Ray was reassigned to an Agent

who could give full time to this matter and no further

investigation was conducted in this matter by SA Bidewell,

other than to cover an occasional minor lead which was

2*

| HH 55032 DocId:32989740

Page 122

---

## Page 123

The Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division

Attention: Iir. Robert Keuch

Director, FBI

NADERAI INFERENT

POUSE SELECT COITTEE OLI ASSASSINATIOS

1 - Mr. Long - Enc.

1

-

Mr.

Foster

- Enc.

1 - Mr. Mintz - Enc.

September 18, 1978

2

1

- Mr. Coulson

- Enc.

- Mr.

Heller - Enc.

In accordance with Attorney General Order

116-56, this menorandum advises that Special Agent

Robert F. Pevahouse, Berkeley Resident Agency,

San Francisco Division, vas interviewed on August 28,

A memorandur setting forth Mix. Pevahouse's

fornation.

Enclosure

• .

1 - Personnel file - Robert E.

Pevahouse - Enclosure

MAILED 6

SEP 2 0 1978

FBI

$|30/s1e

APPROVED:

Director

Assos. Dir.

Dep. ADridmi.

Dep. AD Inv.

REG 32

Бруксирве

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv..

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.-

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

Intell..

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Plan, & Insp.

- (10)

Rec. Mgnt.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Public Affs. Off. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director's Sec'y

MAIL ROOM

NG 5508T DOI497889740

Page 123

Adm. Serv.

Crim. Inv.

Per: Sit:

ident.

Rec Mant.

Intell.

Tech. Servs.

Laboratory

Training

Public Affs. Off.

11170

1196

554

FB1/DOJ

---

## Page 124

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHAROSON POSYER, N.C.

SAMUEL LiE MINE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY, D.C.

STEWART :

"KINNEY. CONN.

*VONNE BRATHWAITE SURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES

CHRISTOPHER SEgDD, CONN.

HAROLD S.

, NEBR.

TER, MICH.

HAROLO E. FORD, TENN

FLOYD J. FITHIANS, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA.

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

H.5. House ni Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 25, 1978

Rec clu

9-25-78

4:24pm

ADORAT COVERINE

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the United States

Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal

Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the investigation by this Committee

into the circumstances surrounding

•the death of Dr. Martin

Luther King, Jr., the assistance of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation is requested in regard to the following matters:

1) Prepare for delivery the folowing Chicago Field

Office file serials: 44-1114-4043 through 4069.

2)

Make available for staff interview, Special Agent

Cliff Halter assigned to the Memphis Field Office

in 1968.

3)

Prepare for delivery on a priority basis the MURKIN

serials 6177 through 6224, appearing in Section 91

of the BUFILE, identified respectively:

a)

b)

1/19/77 memo (12 pages)

J.S. Peelman to Gallagner

Subject:

Report of the DOJ Task Force to

Review the FBI-MLK Security and

Assagrination INvestigations:

1/21/77 memo (10 pages) i

REC-60

60: 172/2-1199

Director FBI to Attorney General

Subject: Same

9 SEP 2° 1978

c)

2/2/77 memo (8 pages)

J.S.

Peelman to Gallagher

Subiect:

Same

62-117290

660CT 4 1978

# 550542

DocId: 32989740 Page 124

---

## Page 125

• The Honorable Griffin B. Bell.

Page Two

2/18/77 memo

Peelman to Gallagher

Subject: Same

Make available for staff interview Special Agent

William J. Quinn formerly assigned to Division 6

and temporarily assigned to Division 5 at Headquarters

in 1968.

As always your assistance is sincerely appreciated.

Very truly yours,

# Rotent Billen

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

RB : ghi

/xc

Mr.

Ron

Heller

MH 55032

DocId: 32989740

Page

125

---

## Page 126

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRM!

RICHARDSO PREVER,.J.C.

SAMUEL L

INE, OHIO

WALTER E. FAUNTROY,

D.C.

STEIVART B. MCKINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWJITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONS, NEBR.

CHRISTOPHER 3: DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

HARES. FIFORN TENN.

ROBERT V. EOGAR, PA.

(202) 223-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

_-H.5. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

•WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

September 22, 1978

9/27/25

C1

FEDERAL GOVEFNMENE

The Honorable Griffin B. Bell

Attorney General of the

Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20430

United States

Attention:

Mr. Robert L. Keuch

Deputy Assistant Attorney General

Criminal Division, Room 2113

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

In connection with the ongoing investigation by the

Committee into the circumstances surrounding the death of

Dr. Martin Luther King, JX., the assistance of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation is requested in regard to the

following matters:

1) Make available for staff interview the

following Special Agents:

a. Ted Rushing

b. Joseph G. Deegan

c. Thomas J. Deakin

2)

Prepare for access any and all BUFILE

and Field Office material on an individual named

Leander Perez, Sr., who resided in Plaquemines

parrish, Louisista.

REG60 62-117291-1201

By memorandum to the HSCA dated February 13, 1978, the FBI

responded and advised that their records indicated that

Frank Raval Legis, neither served nor is presently serving as

a Special Agent.

In continuance of that request, January 24,

1978, the Committee would appreciate the FBI conducting the

the

appropriate records check to determine whether rank put

Legis;

Frank Raul Legis; Frank Lee Legis; or Frank Raoul

Legis is presently serving or has served the Bureag aStra 29 1978

Special Agent.

62-117290

RACHC

132985 Pate 126-

---

## Page 127

Page 2.

As always your continued cooperation is greatly

appreciated.

Very truly yours,

4. Rolex Blaby

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel

and Director

GRB: ghb

XC :

Mr. Ron Heller

НЫ 55032 DooId:32989740

Page 127

---

