# docid-32323124

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90010-10128

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-9734-763

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BROWN

TO:

DL

TITLE :

DECLASSIFIEI

Department of State

Guidelines,

July 21,

1997

Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 01/11/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

14 54463

DooId: 32323124

Page 1

72

---

## Page 2

"of 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO -

: SAC, DALLAS (134-1A-645A)

FROM : SA W. HARLAN BROWN

SUBJECT: DI 6-S

DATE 1/11/62

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIE

DATE 2-15-97.BY56108.50/5R

(JFK)

On 12/11/61 SA W. MARIAN BROWN received, in person,

a handwritten report dated 18/11/61 from DI-6-S.

This

report has been serialized as 134-1A-645•

Informant determined on 12/11/61 that. on 11/6/61

regular CP meeting took place at the home of AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA in West Dallas.

Present were AUGUSTIN ESTRADA, BILL

LOWERY and JOE LANDIN.

Informant determined that ESTRADA had a letter he

had received from JOHN STANFORD in San Antonio.:

The letter

informed him that MAUDE RUSSELL, who is well acquainted with

Communist China's true progress, was available as a speaker.:

She could be contacted by writing MAUDE RUSSELL, Palo Alto,

California.

Miss RUSSELL, the letter said, would

soon be in

the San Antonio area.

She charges a fee of $25 for a group

of 30 and it is customary to find her a place to stay Miss

RUSSELL's knowledge of China, the letter continued, is next

to a trip to China.

1 - 134-1A-645A

1

•100-7995 4A.

ESTRADA)

1

- 100-7929 (B. LOWERY)

1

∞ 100-8001 (ch. LANDIN)

= 100-8749 (J. STANFORD)

1 - 100-10657 M. RUSSELL)

- 100-671-1 (FUNDS)

1 = 100-8242 (N. ROSS)

1

- 100-8171 {E. ROSS)

1 - 100-8160 (J. LAWRENCE)

100-9974 (D. LAWRENCE)

100-9734-763

1100-

SERIALIZED

COMFILED ...

JAid1 51962

FBI DALLAS

100-9734 (G. I. FORUM)

- 100 - 671-5 (ORG)

1 ci

• San Antonio (RM) (JOHN WILLIAM STANFORD, JR)(100-7232)

WHB: jeg

(14)

NW 54463 DooId: 32323124 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 134-1A-645A

ESTRADA informed BILL LOWERY and JOE LANDIN that

he had spoken to two persons about Miss RUSSELL and had received

$10 as a contribution.

The fee, he said, would be easily

raised, sponsoring MAUDE RUSSELL would be the thing.

They

(the CP)

could not do it.

It would be up to the ROSSES or the

LAWRENCES. They discounted the ROSSES because they are

separated.

AUGUSTIN said he would ask JOE LAWRENCE to sponsor

MAUDE RUSSELL. BILL LOWERY said that if the LAWRENCES were

able to, he would ask NATALIE ROSS if her house could be used

for the meeting even though

she could not be present. BILL

LOWERY gave ESTRADA instructions on how to get a hold of JOE

LAWRENCE (by phone).

ESTRADA and LOWERY had a long discussion on fall out

and the outlawing of the CP.

ESTRADA said such a ruling would

certainly hurt the party - but would not stop it. The party's

headquarters have for a time been just a front..

Besides. this

sort of persecution would align other organizations with the

party for they could be next.

BILL LOWERY agreed, saying the

outlawing of the CP gave them more company.

ESTRADA, as an

example, said that if LOWERY was ever arrested his co-workers

in the G.I. Forum, Dad's Club would come to his rescue.

JOE LANDIN told them he did not agree with them, he

doubted if any non-communist organization would ever be out-

lawed and doubted if any arrested CP member would be defended

by his friends or co-workers.., He asked them to make realistic

deductions just who could they turn to besides the ACLU?

BILL LOWERY said their only defense would be the people they

had worked with

rescue.

lawing

He rated the interest JOE LAWRENCE had in the.out-

rated the intent

in mass organizations, they would come to their

the CP.

He assured JOE LANDIN there were others like :

him. JOE LANDIN said he understood the situation much better

now. that BILL LOWERY had explained about JOE LAWRENCE.

Informant had no additional information.

there "l?

- 2. -

HH 54463

DocId: 32323124

Page 3

---

