# docid-32333290

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90106-10146

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-117222-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SJ

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/08/1965

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

RADIOGRAM

v9.1

NW 45773 DocId: 32333290 Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

1-3 1n9y: 12714-6147

DECO

MUAH

E/D

DENTIAL

COPY

C3 rectron

Палас -

Mohr

Đab dici:

espo

aflahar

Confad

Felt -

Gale

Rosen

Sullivat

O AIRCRAM

I CABLEGRAM

XX RADIO

O TELE

GCL

R-20

Clas

DEFERRED 2-8-65

Declassify on:

TO DIRECTOR (105-112089) AND MIAMI (105-6133)

3 BY 5668 s0/6CL

FROM SAN JUAN

081447 Commandas L

ON 3/3/97

INTERNAL SECURITY

SEGUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL ESCAMBRAY (SNFE), IS-CUBA.

NEUTRALITY ACT; 00: MIAMI.

ON FEBRUARY 5 LAST E

OTHER

4

(PROTECT), ARRIVED IN SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO ABOARD THE

MOTOR VESSEL "SHARK 5'"

" FROM EIGHT MONTHS IN SANTO DOMINGO

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. ABOARD WERE SIX MEMBERS OF THE CREW

OF THE "VENUS," A JURE VESSEL, WHO WERE EN ROUTE TO MIAM!

THE FOUR REMAINING CREW MEMBERS ABOARD THE VENUS ARE

PRESENTLY EN ROUTE FROM SANTO DOMINGO TO PUERTO CABELLO,

VENEZUELA WHERE THEY WILL AWAIT FURTHER ORDERS FROM JURE.

TATES THAT HE HAD SPOKEN WITH DOMINICAN GENERAL

(FIRST NAME UNKNOWN) ATILA LUNA, WHO STATED THAT ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO AND HIS THREE COMPANIONS FROM THE SNFE

RECENTLY CAPTURED IN CUBA DID NOT TRAVEL TO CUBA BY BOAT,

BUT IN FACT WERE TRANSPORTED BY AIRPLANE AND DROPPED IN BY

N.

PARACHUTE ON THREE SUCCESSIVE: NIGHTS ABOUT DECEMBER 15,

1964.

ATHE PLANE USED WAS AN UNMARKED DOMINICAN AIR FORCE

SPLANE.

STATED THAT AS OF FEBRUARY 3 LAST, THE

cosvaa

Aarva

SNFE STiLL HAS

OVER

100 MEN IN THEIR BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO

AND THE USE OF TWO BOATS, THE "MAMEYES" AND A SMALL SIGMA

IN FOLLA

XE SHOWN

CEASOTFTED

CONTAINED

ECLA

CIA HAS NO

GMB

AFORMAL

TON AND/OR

OBJECTION TO:

de

TYPE LAUNCH BELONGING TO THE, MDC.

MARIANO BATISTA FALLA

me corin

8941934534921

P94/09

105117222

82. 402012

NOT

RECORDED

310

6 9 FEB 24 1965

MR. BELG

46 FEB 161965

1o0-20a024

¿in the above message is to be disseminat

Bureai's crypiographic systems

NW 45773 DocId: 32333290

Page 2

---

## Page 3

4-3 (R0v0 12-11:64)

DECODE

1AI

COPY

@ AIRCRAM

D CABLEGRAM

XXI RADIO

TSWE

1.22

I TELETYPE

CONF

PAGE 2, FROM SAN JUAN 081447

MILITARY LEADER OF THE MDC, IS IN THE CAMP WITH THE SNFE.

STATED THAT THE "BERTRAM" MODEL BOAT IS NAMED THE

"JUANIN,

AND IS A 31 FOOT BOAT WITH TWO, 275 HORSEPOWER

CHRYSLER INBOARD MARINE ENGINES. THE JUANIN BELONGS TO THE

DRE, AND IS MOORED IN SANTO DOMINGO TOGETHER WITH A SMALL

PT TYPE BOAT OF THE DRE NAMED THE "SUSAN ANN."

STATED THAT THE SUSAN ANN WAS THE PT BOAT USED BY THE DRE

ON A RAID ON CUBA WHERE AN HAVANA THEATER WAS SHELLED.

_STATED THAT. THE MRR HAS 78 MEN AND A LAUNCH NAMED

"GITANA" AT A BASE LOCATED ON BEATA ISLAND, ON THE SOUTH

COAST OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WEST OF THE CITY OF SANTO

DOMINGO. THE MAIN MR BASE IS STILL LOCATED IN NICARAGUA.

THE GITANA IS ONE OF THE TWO BOATS USED BY THE MR ON THE

ATTACK ON THE SPANISH MERCHANT SHIP OFF OF CUBA. ATHIS

ATTACK BY THE MER WAS WITH

FULL KNOWLEDGE AND UNDER

THE DIRECTION OF CIAX

SOURCE STATED THAT TONY CUESTA, OF COMANDOS L, WAS IN

THE PROCESS OF SHIPPING A LAUNCH. TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

FROM MIAMI AND ESTABLISHING A BASE IN SANTO DOMINGO. & V

ONI, OSI, INTC, INS, U.S. CUSTOMS AND U. S. COAST

GUARD ADVISED LOCALLY:

AIRTEL AND LETTERHEAD MEMORANDUM FOLLOWS.

RECEIVED:

12:35 PM LRC

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

DeLoach -

Casper

Callahan._

• Contad -

Felt

Gole

Rosen

Sullivan -

Tavel'

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

OTHER

4

CONFIDENTIAI

CONFIDENTIAL

it the araldrence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be switcly

Order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45773 DocId: 32333290

Page 3

---

