# docid-32336101

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY : ' FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90132-10005

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-29-849

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/05/1965

2

JACK RUBENSTEIN

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM MIAMI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32336101

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reteased Inter the Fohn F.

Kennedy ASSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DADS EY. 11-2-04)

11-14-2017

FBI

Date: 3/5/65

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

URGENT

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

SUBJECT:

(CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MM 962-PC advised that SOL EDER (MM 165-208)

is still carried on the payroll of the National Plastering

Company, Miami Beach, Flae, operated by MAXEDER (MM 92-467),,

his brother, and JACK RÚBIN.

Informant reported that SOL

EDER hangs around the

'locations where the National Plastering

Company has contracts; that SOL EDER borrows money from

the plasterers and fails to pay them back; he continues to

"bum" cigarettes from everyone and always

has a crap game

going on during the lunch hour at the jobs.

MM 509-C-TE advised that SOL EDER and HARRY

COHEN, aka "THE FOX"

', have been hanging around numerous

Miami Beach hotel lobbies, and card rooms nightly looking

for!'suckers" that they "can take" in card games, as both

are known as card cheaters.

B, APPROX, / 9/V

MM 1004-C advised that SOL EDER'S Son, SIANLEY.

ALLEN EDER, age 21, and another male, age 24, were arrested

and charged with

possession of burglary tools, and suspicion

Bureau

1-Miami

RFF:rlf

(4)

REC-I

62-9-29-849

122251

6 MAR 8 1965

Approved,

KIlE

Special AgentliChar

harge

"Distr

DocId: 32336101 Page 2

Sent

_ M

Per

---

## Page 3

Belease unter the forn F. Kernedy Assassination Records ColTention Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

of breaking and entry, along motel row in Dade County, Fla.

STANLEY EDER, at the time, was out on probation, having

received two years probation on a narcotics charge, this

past December.

FIE

MM 509-C-TE also advised that JAMES PALMISANO

(MM 92-503) and some of his associates at the County Social

and Bridge Club, are backing DICK\WILLIAMS in the opening

of the Casa Linda Restaurant, 1432 DreXel Ave., Miami Beach.-

WILLIAMS is a dealer in the gambling games at the County

Social and Bridge Club, and while he is dealing at the club,

his wife handles the restaurant operation.

He further advised that WILLIE DARA (MM 165-408) ELA

recently acquired

an interest in the cocktail lounge of

the Traymore Hotel, Miami Beach, with FRANK DIMARCO.

FiA

MM 806-C reported that he received information

that any bolita activity in Broward

County, Fla., must

be approved by HYMAN MARTIN (MM 92-218)•

ELA

He also, heard

that MARTIN continues, to finance and "back" FRED\ CHAPMAN

(MM 166-17) and JACK RAINWATER (MM 162-135) in their bolita

FlA

business. Reportedly MARTIN is also paying for half of

the costs involved in the bolita trial of FRED CHAPMAN

JACK RAINWATER.

MM 814-C advised that he was told NAT EDER,

brother of MAX EDER, is part owner of a dress shop in Miami

and New York City,

ex-husband of

SYLVIA

EDER, sister of MAX EDER.

MM 986-C-TE reported that GILBERT LEEXBECKLEY

(MM 92-353) still has plans of acquiring the New Frontier

Hotel and gambling casino at Las Vegas, Nevada.

Reportedly

Suction

BECKLEY needs financial backing of approximately $300,000

from legitimate sources, and allegedly was scheduled to

confer with five individuals on this point in the near future.

2.

J015400a

DocId: 32336101 Page 3

---

