# docid-32318333

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 U5C 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10358-10020

RECORD SERIES: WMFO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 65-3676-SUB 1-5966

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 11/22/1963

'PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

ADDITIONAL FIELD OFFICE ELSURS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LOG

v9.1

DocId: 32318333

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

deleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

40015132

1611

SMOND.

476 NSS

Washington, D.C.

Friday

Novenber 22, 1963

9:31 pm/,

9: 48 AMS

WF 4564S

no cut

9:55

AM

WE 4567s

no cuts)

10:22 AM

WE 1456-S

no cut (s

10:35 am

WF 1456

S

POLISH SUMMARY

VIKTON NOVASH, Sov. embassy to FRAN. KRAWCZYK discuss a film

that is apparently missing. NOVAAH cant find it with the

group they have. Further discussion about children's films

and KRAW. SUggests NOVASH call K. ORLOWSKI who has charge

of the films.

Russian

DC/ JJP

J. HERMAN tO LEE MEREDITH: He asked for MR WOJCIK and was told

that he could not be reached. HERMAN

said he wanted to make

arrangements for the graup from the Embassy who are driving

• over to Baltimore thisevening to see the Polish play. She

will tell WOJCIK.

Os/

EXXAX T. PIWINSKI to Unid man In Baltimore: PIWINSKI advised

that a large group from the Embassy will come over for the

Polish play at Baltinore. Unid agreed and said he will reserve

the first three rows for them. PIWINSKI satexthathe asked

for the address

and was told that it is at 510 South Booadway.

OK PIWINSKI can find It.

(Polish) OS/

EDWARD DRIZNIAK tO J. PIOROZYNSKA: He asked about the group

that is coming form NYC over the week-end and nah what

arrangements are being made for them. She advised tat they

hazy will not come because they will be busy withthe courier

mail. He asked that she contact STARCZEWSKI and davise that

DROZNIAKS cannot come tothe concert because they will have

to be in Washington because of some very important matters

which are now pending here.

(Polish) OS/

P? KASPRZYK, PUND In NY to Z. ANIOLEK: PK advises that he

expects there were

some expenses involved re the trip of

"the MInister and SZEFCZYK(ph) "

• ZA stated there was an air-

-line ticket and hotel bill re S. ZA will send

bill to PK.

Okay. They talk of the POlish painters in WDC. ZA stated he

wants to

keep there them here

till they finish the Consular

Office which might take an another 30 days. ZA is uwaiting

Ministry decision in this regard. (Polish)

GussEs set 5/s 45-2676 ful 15966

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

SECRET

me ming

(POE- 25522](5)

Docta: 32318333 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SCOPE

Washington, D.C.

Friday

Nov. 22, 1963

11:10 AM

WF 256]s

11:10am

WE (4567s

11:27am

WF 456+S

{5)

11:39

WE

6521(5)

no

11:52 AM

WF 4567S

no cut (s)

POL SUMMARY

BIDZINSKE tO AMD EDWARD DROZNIAK: BIDZINSKI advised that thr

da can get some very good 18 month credit for their purchases,

regardless of the MUNDI amendment. DROZNIAK Said he anuxeens

doubts very much that the Amendment will pass and BIDZINSKA

agrees. BIDZINSKI advised he had information that shipping

rates had dropped shapply. DROZNIAK said this was good news

and he asked that WARSAW

be informed about this if they had

hot been advised heretofor.

(Polish) OS/

M. SPALINSKI tO A. KITA, Chicago, said he was calling re

HARVEY COLUMBUS (ph, Canfield Canfield, Detroit, Mich, the

manager of the Midtown Art Theatre who wants a film showing

there. He asked KITA knew anything about him. KITA has not

heard of him. SPAL will let him know to cantact the Chicago

office re this matter. He asso asked if KITA was familiar

with A.S.

SAMPOLINSKI (ph) Prof: of Surgery at Loyola Univ.

in Chicago. A.k.

wITI check on him. SPAL ntxt wants to know

If they have had any contact with the man and

what is his

position.

(Polish)

JJP

I. EWINSKI to 280 MSOBOZYkE, Chieaos, sald that CIBOR

had sent SOBCZYNSKI's passport over saying that SOB wants to

go to Canada. SOB indicated that he wants to go to Ottowa

and Montreal

on an official trip with wife and one child

Ior about 10 days. He will go by car and will enter and

return at Detroit. PIW. will

send him the necessary

GRZEDZICKI Car since he

1s due to leave on Dec. 3rd and is getting worried about the

car.

STANISEAN TOLION)

Mrs. DROZNIAK , at the

Embassy,

cakked and spoke to M. WILINSKI:

asked whether the wis would be free tomorrow at 7 pm.

Yes, the w.'s will call on the DROZNIAKS then (Polish) jrk

ADAM BONARSKI to MR COBB: He advised that the Polish Embassy

are having ax some trouble with attorney fees in the

• Philadelp

hia are which are excessivley high, andhe would like to

discuss and confer on this matter.

Agreed. They make an

appointment for 2:30 PM on next Wednesday.

os/

(POL 29523-J(5)

DocId:32318333 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D.C.

Nov. 22, 1963

Friday

12:40pm

WE I

[9537S

nc

12:48 pm

WF 456°

ne

12:30pm

WF

1456+S

-(5)

1:01pm

WF 652}S

no

2: 06pm

WF 4567s

ne

2:11

PM

WF 456S

no cut (s)

2:40 pm

HE 561(5)

no

@2: 45pm

WF 652 S

nc

POL SUMMARY

CAN

Mrs. MARTIN from Hoffman's to

WROBLEWSKI said that someone

at the rolish embassy had called HoFFman's about sound-

proofing a room. WhoB add knows about it and wants to know

when she can come to x& look over the place. Agreed that

she ; will be tarn

there between 12:00 and 1:00om on

monday. WROB. indicated that this was for the Economic

Counsellor"s office.

JJP

'RESZKA called and told Z. BIDZINSKI that

he had something

for him. B. will be over today. (Polish)

jrb

LEE MEREDITH to UNID male at "The Monocle" restaurant said

that Z. LUDWICZAK was to meet a Mr. PHILIPS(ph) there at

1:00pm

today but would be a few minutes late. UNID knows

PHILIPS and will so advise him.

JJP

S. RESZE DOM. WICINSKI SAlL WhO WaS COLISH; WILINSKI

said good. No.

further conversation.

(Message apparently came in for the Minitary)

K. ORACZEWSKI to E. DROZNIAK asking 1f he had heard the news

and ED said that he had and would be there right away.

J0H/N

JoHN Polish

wsh

H. ZWIREN to AMB

EDWARD DROZNIAK:

ZWIREN informed of the

shooting of Pres KENNEDY and GOV CONNALIX Of Texas in Dallas.

DROZNIAK asked

Da A ase so on the tea on Agrey to Poland and then

(Polish) OS/

MARIAN WOJCIK called his wife toladvise her of the Pres, 's

death.

She can't beldeve it, and agree this is a horrible

thing. (POlish)

jrb

K. MISIOR to his wife telling her about Pres. KENNEDY

and saying that due to this they probably would not go to

the play tonight as he felt that there would not be a

pedformance.

Polish

wsh

FOL 25524J(5)

SCOTT

DocId: 32318333 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2:59 PM

WF 4567S

no cuits)

3:16pm

WF 4567s

3:20pm

WE E56S

no

3:15pm

WE A567

3:30pm ls)

WE 4567S

Ba (20-40J(5)

Washington, D.C.

November 22, 1963

Friday

POLISH SUMMARY

AMB EDWARD DROZNIAK to H. ZWIREN: ZWIREN said that they now

have definite information that PRES JOHN F. KEENEDY IS deac

and BJOHNSON is taking over the office of tresident oi the

regret are being received and it is reported

that the suspect is a racists of the extreme right. but

he is being questioned by officals and details are not

not the rupee lone

available as yet. DROZNIAK asked that he keep Warsaw informed

because they still do not have all the info. Agreed.

(Polish) 0S/

M. SPALINSKI to his wife asking if she had heard about the

Presddent's death. She said that she had not aand could not

belleve it. MS said that he must have been shot by a mad

man. No other comment was made by either. Polish

wsh

E. DROZNIAK tO A. KITA In Chicago telling him to fly the

Ilag at half mast and that they would see what would take

place as time went on.

Polish

wsh

H. MALIN Of USDS to LEE MEREDITH. Malin 1s very mournful and

asks how the Poles are reacting to the news.

IM says they

are all very distressed and mantions that this very morning

M. WOJCIK had mentioned that if Jack Kennedy went to Poland

his reception would be even grester than that of R. Nixon.

H. Malin 1s willing tio take bets that the assassin is some

type of racist fanatic and that this is the issue on which

J. Kennedy was shot.

Thereafter HM talks with T. Piwinski

and asks how birth certificates and marriage certificates

for people may be obtained from Poland.

TP says to have

the people write to the office of IP at the Polish Embassy. OK,

thanks much.

vhw

BARBARALSIGRI(sp) of the Washington Evening Star to M. Dobro-

sielski.

BS introduces herself and asks if he could give

statement on the death of President Kennedy. • DOBROSIELSKI

identifies himself

and his position and makes the following

statement:" We are terribly shocked and I just talked ukh

a few minutes ago with the Ambassador and that is our common

opinion. He (the Ambassador) is terribly shocked and considered

President Kennedy a great man who wanted peace on earth and

understanding----well we think it is a terrible thing.

We are

very sorry for what happened and our deepest sympathy for the

family and his nearest and for the country."

oK, and thanks

very muchopaa

vhw

[POT - 25525] (5)

DocId: 32318333 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Washington, D.C.

November 22. 1963

Friday

4:11 PM

4:24 pm

WF

0531(5)

ne

4:35 pm

WE 4567S

(5)

4•47pm

WE 1456- S

no

4:44

PM

WF. 456-S

no cutl

S)

6:32pm

WE 14567S

ne

(5)

7: 37pm

WE 4567S

15)

POLISH SUMMARY

K. MIZIOR to MRS MIZIOR: He advisedthat he will have to stay

at the office until about 5:00 PM. Chatter about the

the

death of PRES KENNEDY and they both express regret.

Mrs. JURASZ calls her husband. He asks whether she has heard

the news of the PResident's death, She stated shat she hac

Thys They express their shock re the tragedy.

the event as a "political tragedy for the world". (POlish) jrb

or song ro

A. SZUSTER tO Z. ANIOLEK asking for E. DROZNIAK. ZA said

that he had left for home about 5 minutes before. As said

they would call there.

Polish

wsh

D. KOFMAN to MR. KAMINSKI (ph) InBaltimore?? Who said that

there would be no shot tonight due to the death of the

Bresident.

KAMISKI said that he would let DK know later on

when another time might be available for the show, Polish wsh

AMB

3 EDWARD DROZNIAK tO H. ZWIREN; He asked that ZWIREN add to

his story that DROZNIAK sent wires of CONdolance to MRS KENNEDY

Robert KENNEDY and Secy of State DEAN RUSK.

OS/ Polish/

Unid. Female of RCA Communications to first the Duty Man and

thenKE F. KRAWCZYK.

The duty man did not understand her and

asked her to call back, but Unid. persisted and finally got

to speak with Krawczak.

She explains that she has a radiogram

which she belleves goes to the White House, but since it is

addressed inPolish she wished to be ceetain, as the radiogram

cane from Poland

She thereupon spelled out the address of the

OK, thanks much.

(polish and English) vhu

F. KRAWCZYK calls to E. Drozniak and advises of the call that

they received at the Embassy from RCA Communications (see

preceding entry) and of the reguest for a translation of the

address.

ED does not understand this at first, and begins to

tell of the telegrams he has sent to Mrs. Kennedy, Robert

Kennedy et al.

FK has to re-explain, and indicates that he does

not know where the cable was from in Warsad, nor whether it was

Cyrankiewicz,

Gomilka or whom. ED finally gets the

point

and says thanks for advising me.

(Polish) vhu

(POI- 25526](5)

DooId:32318333 Page 6

---

