# docid-32310718

## Page 1

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records collection Aot oi 1992 741 U5c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System •

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10307-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-625

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

"PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/15/1962

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, REL, EMP, FUNERAL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310718

294

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 «Hav: 6-2-61)

DECODED COPY

xx Radio

• Teletype

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohi _

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans y

Malone -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy -

DEFERRED

2-15-62

TO DIRECTOR

'FROM SAG, CHICAGO

151620

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, ARO DAILY SUMMARY. CG 6512-PC

ADVISED FUNERAL HELD RECENTLY AT KRINGAS AND MARZULLO'S

MORTUARY FOR DANNY ALLEGRETTI WHO DIED FEBRUARY 1, LAST,

ATTENDED BY MANY OF CHICAGO'S PROMINENT CRIMINALS.

ALLEGRETTI REPORTEDLY NOT ENGAGED IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES,

BUT DELIVERED JUKE BOXES FOR BROTHER-IN-LAW, WILLIE DADDANO,

CHICAGO TOP HOODLUM AND LIEUTENANT OF GIANCANA. DECEASED

WAS FATHER OF JOHN AND ANTHONY ALLEGRETTI, CHICAGO POLICE

OFFICERS. JOHN PRESENTLY STATIONED SHAKESPEARE AREA,

FORMERLY WORKED NARCOTICS SQUAD AS PARTNER OF JOHN MATTASSA

WHO IS CURRENT DRIVER AND BODYGUARD FOR GIANCANA. ACCORDING

TO INFORMANT, DECEASED NOT RELATED TO CHICAGO HOODLUM JIMMY

"MONK" ALLEGRETTI. NO ACTIVITY REPORTED BY CG 6486 C*

SINCE LAST WEEKEND; HOWEVER, CLOSE COVERAGE BEING MAINTAINED.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

1:05 PM MN

95-3121-635

11 FEB 16 1962

REG- 5

ALL INFORMATION. CONTAINED 5X-108

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20 • B4 BY SesKalCaL

5C FEB 21 1962

cor pinte in the auree message is to be diseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

DocId:32310718 Page 2

---

