# docid-32332885

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10183

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2940-28

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/15/1958

8

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885

Page 1

---

## Page 2

B8

OPPICE MENORANDEM

DIRBOTOR, FBI (92-2940)

he ched

UNITED STATES GOVER

DATE: 5/75/58

SAC, PITTSBURGH: (92-226)

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, WAS.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

(00:

Pittsburgh)

Enclosed herewith for

the Bureau are the copies of the

report of sA RobiRT A. VOlGE, Pittsburgh, dated 5/15/58,

REFERENCES

3/27/58.

'7

-

-

Baltimore letter to Pittsburgh,

3/31/58.

amt airtel to Pittsburgh, 4/1/58.

BaltImere airtel to Pittsburgh, 4/11/58.

New York airtel to Pittsburgh,,

Pittsburgh airtel to Miami, 4/17/58.

Newark letter to Pittsburgh,

4/18/58.

New York letter to Bureau, 4/17/58.

ADMINISTRATIVE

IL VIEW OF THE CONVICTION OF THE SUBJECT FOR ASSAJIT WITH

DUORT TO KIN, AND HIS ARREST FOR CARRYING A CONCEATED

WHAPON,

HE MAY BE ARMED AND SHOULD BE CONSIDNE

DANGEROUS.

• Bureau (ENCIS - 2

2 - Baltimore (92-149) (ENCIS = 2'

2

(ENCIS - 2)

Jacksenville (INFO) (ENCL

• - 1)

(ENCIS - 2)

2

2

= My 01h92 (92 97) (513) - 2)

- Pittsburgh

RAV/amb

•(16)

REC

• AG

92.2940-28

3 MAY 19 195

66 JUN17 19585-407

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

43

The Baltimore Office advised that the indices of

the

Baltimore Division disclosed the following information

regarding MAX L. GOLDBERG, an accountant for the subject,

which is considered pertinent to this investigation:

By memorandum of January 4, 1958, to the Agent In Charge,

GOLDBERG was listed as a confidential informant of

Baltimore. "At that time, it was reported that MAX L.

GOLDBERG had resided in Baltimore for many years and

resided with his wife and children at 3701 Clarinth Road.

He was described as a certified public accountant who operates

not only in Baltimore, but throughout the eastern United States.

He was further identified as an Informant for the Baltimore

Office since October 3, 1946, and it was stated that since

that time; he had furnished valuable information relative

to slot machine operators, distributors and various

Individuals which the Baltimore Office desired to interview,

and no payment of money was necessary for these services.

It was stated that the informant had furnished reliable

background information regarding slot machine operators

and had given considerable information in an investigation

of the reactivation of the CAPONE gang. In connection

with this investigation, he obtained a copy of the

Wurlitzer Company franchise in Pittsburgh, Pa., for the

Baltimore Office when it was being

sought throughout the

country

In 1950, it was reported that GOLDBERG 1s extremely

cautious and desires thorough discreetness in divulging

information.

• He was found to have been highly reliable

and trustworthy as long as he was approached cautiously.

It was reported at that time that there was no question

regarding his loyalty and in April, 1950, he was

designated as a confidential source. No record was found

in the indices of the Baltimore Office indicating that

GOLDBERG had been

contacted since 1950.

During August, 1951, in the course of a survey regarding

interstate transportation of gambling devices, inquiry

was made of numerous local law enforcement agencies.

At

that time MERVIN BOYD, United States Treasury Department,

advised that MAX GOLDBERG handled the accounting work

- 2 -

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG. 92-226

for a major portion of the gambling device operators

1n

the eastern portion of the United States.

He stated that

GOLDBERG 1s cognizant of the purchases,

sales and proceeds

of the operators of gambling devices in the mast, and 1t

was his bellef that GOLDBERG can and will: furnish

valuable information concerning sales and transportation of

gambling devices to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

On March 27; 1958; an attempt was made to

interview

GOLDBERG, but it was learned that he was away from his

Baltimore residence.

Attempts are being made. by the,

Baltimore Office to

obtain the full cooperation of

GOLDBERG in furnishing all details available: to him

regarding individuals connected with the Top Hoodlum

Program and consideration 1s being given to developing

him as a current potential criminal' informant of the

Baltimore Office.

om Aprtl 8, 1958, GOLDBERd advised telephonically he

a long distance call to the Baltimore Office that; he

was at that time receiving treatment at Citizens General

Hospital, New Kensington, Pao, for an acute /condition

attributed to his sciatic nerve.:

He stated that he

had been advised by his physician that he mist be in

the hospital until at least April 18, 1958, and will

thereafter return to his homè in Baltimore for an extended

stay. GOLDBERG advised that he will cooperate fully

In any way possible with Bureau agents on a confidential

basis.

The following individuals are presently being uttlized

by the Pittsburgh Office in this investigation:

a PCI who 18 well acquainted

with many of Pittsburgh!s top hoodlums and who is

being utilized for ceverage of the GENOVESE-

ÉCOL LA ROCGA. .interests.:

11:

PG 573-C, who 1s extremely friendly with the

GENOVESE brothers, particularly FIORE,

and who

in 1Srbeing utilized for general coverage of the

LANC

Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

*.*

teLe

tinc

. Ar

Marled the acadea

OTHER 4

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PQ. 92-226

a PCI, wito 1s Intimately

acquainted with many Pittsburgh top hoodlums

through association with them when theyabegan,

their racket careers and who is being utilized

for coverage of the GENOVESE - NELSON interests,

as well as LA ROCCA/s travel plans.

AL BUCK,

former Allegheny County Detective and

present Vice-President of the Fidelity Trust

Company, Loan Department, Pittsburgh, Pad,

• 1s being utilized for his knowledge of the

Bankerts Exchange in Pittsburgh, whereby he

can obtain information regarding bank loans

made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums. / BUCK 18 also

famtliar with the activities of several of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those

OTHER 4

Of LA ROCCA, from having worked on criminal

#78

matter's for many years in the Oity of Pittsburgh.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage,

efforts

are still being made to persuade

againiwork as a waitress in the red eagle club, formerly

known as the Genovese Cocktall Lounge, an soon as 1t

becomes apparent that racket operations are again under

way at the club.

The contemplated development of Miss EVELYN GAPPETIANO,

paramour of PHIL GENOVESE, older brother of MIKE GENOVESE,

does not seem logical at this time in view of this

Individual's fear surrounding her relationship with the

GENOVESE family. She will not be recontadted unless

more specific information regarding her alleged association

with Pittsburgh top heathms can be 'established.

LEADS

BALTIMORE

AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

ines

l.

with thoroughly interview MAX LoUIs GoLDBERG,

Accountant

for the subject, regarding the finances of LA ROCCA and

more specifically regarding his federal income tax

returns for the years 1956 and 1957.

- 4-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG: 92-226

2.

LEADS (CONIE)

In the event GOLDBERG advises that his records concerning

GENOVESE and SEBASTIAN: JOHN LA ROCCA are at his

Pittsburgh Office, will make arrangements to have

GOLDBERG confer with acceuntants of the Pittsburgh

advise arrange

Division at a pre-scheduled time so that his workpapers

may be thoroughly discussed with him.

BUFFALO:

Đum

AT BUFFALO, NEW YORK

1.

Will conduct a thorough neighberhood investigation in

the vicinity of 380 Normal Avenue in an effort to

ascertain the identity of the person whe recently

died at that address and to determine whether or

not the subject attended the funeral®

2.1

W111 obtain the residence telephone number for ROSINA

LA ROCCA: CONTI and her husband, CATINO, at the

aforementioned address and will bear in mind that

the subject may be staying at this residence (or

have stayed there in the recent past) to avoid

the service of a subpoena.

30

Will give consideration to an interview of CATINO

CoIl at his place of employment, bearing in mind

that he may be able to furnish information regarding

the whereabouts of LA ROCCA since February, 1958.

If Interviewed, a complete description of CONTI

should be obtained.

n4oldi:

JACKSONVILLE - INFORMATION

One copy of this report is being furnished for information

because of allegations made by informants concerning

subject's travel in Florida and Cuba during his so-called

"al sappearance"

from Pittsburgh.

With the background

supplied,

it is feit that Jacksonville can intelligently

handle the severage of any future leads requested.

.31*

TACAO 100"

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885 Page 6

---

## Page 7

OTHER 4

PG 92-226

9.

coverage may be afforded the 1a got to ant

interests.:

10. Will, through established Informant coverage, endeavor

to ascertain the specific whereabouts of the subject

during the months of February - April, 1958; and

his mode of travel during this period.

11. Will make arrangements to Interview HARRY STEELE,

senior partner, Fauset, Steele and Company, 1812

First National Bank Building, Pittsburgh (Grant 1-3883)

a neighbor who is alleged to have been friendly and

sympathetic to the LA ROCCA family, for any

information of a personal nature he may be able to

furnish.

NW 45836 DocId: 32332885 Page 7

---

