# docid-32316676

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10350-10118

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-63729-14

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NK

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

08/22/1961

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32316676

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

NK 105-10927

White House and indicated he planned to call there in person on

7/25/61.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

File Number Where Located

NK T-1

Lt. Col. MARIANO FAGET

46-3373-6

Former Ass't. Chief of

the Dept. of Investigation

of the Cuban National Police

NK T-2

Col. HERBERT HARTMAN

VV.S. Air Force, Ret.

Harvey Cedars, N.J.

NK T-3

FRANCIS MONKS

Postmaster

Harvey Cedars, N.J.

LEADS:

105-10927-1

105-10927-10

It is requested that all leads be covered promptly

so that Bureau permission may be obtained for an interview with

the subject.

MIAMI

Will interview BARBARA CARTER,

201 S.W. 2Ist Ave.

AT RAUT, The Should be interryleed concernans the

source of DAMON's money and the extent of his involvement in

anti-CASTRO activities. All possible information should be

obtained from CARTER re any possible violations by DAMON of

Neutrality Matters - Impersonation Statutes, or the Registration

Act.

2. Will interview KATHLEEN ANN BERNS who may be re-

siding with the subject at the Gold Dust Motel. She should be

questioned concerning any statements subject may have made

wherein he represented himself to be a Secret Service Agent,

and also, any knowledge she may have of his involvement in anti-

CASTRO activities.

B

Cover Page

NW 54464 DooId: 32316676 Page 2

---

