# docid-32299516

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10296

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2717-1253

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, OT

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

08/04/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32299516

Page 1

264

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAILED 30

AUG 121964

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room.-

Holnes -

Gandy -

REC-flegat,

Ottawa

8/12/64

1253

Director, FBI

ANGELO

AR

BRUNO,

aka

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

UNCLASSINED ®50,326,

DATE 1/02/88

BLATAN

/GOs

Re Legat, Ottawa, airtel 8/4/64 captioned

"Angelo Frank Bruno, aka,

FPC."

Reairtel refers to travel of an individual who was

believed to be the subject and who had arrived in Italy in the

afternoon of 7/31/64, that Italian authoritles refused to accept

him,

and he was returned to Amsterdam on 8/1/64.

Further, that

Italian authorities had later reported to Canadian innigration

officials that this individual was identical with Angelo Bruno

Annaloro, aka Angelo Bruno, subject of this case. ('G-1)(u)

For your information, Angelo Bruno, FBI number 1045098,

head of the Philadelphia family of La Cosa Nostra, checked out of

a Ney York hotel on the afternoon of 7/31/64 to return to

Philadelphia.

Highly confidential sources reported that Bruno

was in Philadelphia on 8/3/64. He and his wife, sue, departed

Philadelphia on the night of 8/3/64 for Miami, Florida.

returned to philadelphia in the early morning of 8/7/64 where

they have been since that date.

In view of the above,

Angelo Bruno, FBi number 1045098,

could not, be identical with the individual who, according to

information received by Bureau from Legat, Rome, arrived in

Milan, Italy, on 7/31/64 on a flight from Edmonton, Canada, via

Amsterdam,

Netherlands, and who exhibited to authorities a

falsified Italian passport number 541830 issued to Antonio EspositO,

born in Naples, Italy,

on 6/18/11.

He was excluded from Italy and

ordered to Amsterdam for probable

return to Canada by Dutch

authorities in view of his use of the falsified passport.

This

individual may have

been identical with Angelo Frank Bruno, FBI

number 5677. (GY) (a)

Legats in some and Bonn were advised on 8/1/64 that

• Esposito was

pertinent information regarding this matter.

Copies of Identifi-

cation records and fingerprints for both subjects were forwarded

to Legat, Bonn,

on latter's request;

[legat, Ottawa, may wish to

discuss this matter further wich Canadian immigration oificials

In order to acquaint chem with those tacts. Gu

1 - Phil, delphia/

-1 - Foreign

Liaison Uni

MAIL

ERE UN

(Coordinated through Lawrence Keenan)

KAL: cael

(6)4See note page 2)

DocId: 32299516

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released undet the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USe 2107 ote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NOTE: This relates to the travel of an Italian national,

Angelo Frank Bruno, to Italy on 7/31/64 following his exclusion

from Canada. He used a falsified passport in the name

Antonio Esposito upon his arrival in Italy and as a result

was excluded from Italy and ordered to return to Amsterdam.

Italian authorities believed this individual was identical

Legat, Ottawa,

during the pertinent period since Italian authorities had

notified Canadian immigration that Philadelphia Bruno had made

the trip to Italy and was excluded.(G-1)(u)

-2-

DocId: 32299516

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DA75:26448)4+20176)

FBI

Date:

AUGUST 4, 1964

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI (92-2747) (

Legat, Ottawa

(92-43) (163-223). (P)

ANGELO FRANK BRUNO, aka

_FPC

HaMS

Reference is made to Ottawa telephone call to the

Bureau (Mr. Staffeld of Criminal Intelligence Division) on

July 28, 1964, requesting photograph, Identification Record

and fingerprints for captioned individual"who had been arrested

by Canadian Immigration in western Canada

and was being held

for deportation to Italy. This material was received 7/30/64,

and furnished to Mr. Darcy Murphy, Canadian Immigration, who

advised. at that time that BRUNO had admitted his true identity

and had been ordered deported and was flown to Italy via

On instant date Mr. Murphy advised that when subject

arrived in Italy, the Italian authorities refused to accept him

and he was returned to Amsterdam. Italian authorities said he

was ANGELO BRUNO ANNALORA,, aka Angelo Bruno, a naturalized U. S.

citizen from the Philadelphia

area and named as a member of the

Mafia by VALACHI.

CONTAINED

INFORMATION

UNCLASSIFIED *241,326

Mr. Murphy requested that the Bureau furnishethe

current whereabouts (especially during the past two weeks) of

ANGELO BRUNO ANNALORA so that Italian authorities may be so

advised. :

(G -1) (4)

Please expedite.

BY

Philadelphia.

Extra copies of this airtel are, furnished for

1253

C C- Wick

Le Bet les

MCT 4692-27175

5541)

INNES

88

6 - Bureau (2 - Poiladelphia

REC-6

EIN IS

1 - Liaison direct)

- Ottawa (1-Cc:

92-43)

ALL

litt

HER

(8)

8112/604

Approved:

-

Sent

_M

Special Agent in Charge

Per IAISON

DocId: 32299516 Page 4

---

