# docid-32298093

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

- 124-10220-10369

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-114543-4TH NR 48

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 12/24/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

JURE, ACA, ASSOC, MR, TRA, CONSPR, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified:

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

i sense an ete on)

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 54464 Date:

N9.1

HH 54464

1

DocId: 32298093

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

OM

ALL INFUGERIAN w

SHOAN

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668

35.

MAY TE52 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. N

UNITED STATES

Memora®

NT

DATE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR;

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4133)

SAC, MIAMI (97-327) (2) CONFIDENTIAL:

IN THIS DOCUMENT

-18-97

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

(MRR)

IS - CUBA; RA • CUBA;

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Jin

12/24/63

10-146874

Classified hy

Declassify on: OADS

0984

Re Minneapolis letter to the Bureau dated 11/21/63.

On 12/13/63, CARLOS ZARRAGA, 2954 Southwest 16th Terrace,

Miami, Florida, advised that he is the head of military action for

the anti-CASTRO organization known as-JUVIA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(JURE). This organization is governed by an Executive Board,

consisting of five members.

Three of the members are in Puerto

Rico and two are in the United

States One of the members on

this Board is MANUEL RAY.

ZARRAGA advised that after the overthrow of the BATISTA

Gove mment on 1/1/59, BAY

was appointed Minister of Public!

Works in Cuba.

He started conspiring against the FIDEL CASTRO

Govemnent in Cuba, became an underground leader, and was w the

last important underground leader to leave Cuba.

This was in

about 1960.

When RAY artived in the United States he was one of

the leading factors in the MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(MRP). RAY became a highly controversial figure and is generally

considered a leftist or a communist by the majority of Cuban

exiles in Miami. RAY was expelled from the MRP. RAY continues

to reside in San Juan, Puerto Rico, is a Civil Engineer, and is

employed by che Puerto Rican Government. He started a new

politicar organisation; Juke and this organization is rapidly

rising insignificamenand importance. Cuban exiles claim that

RAY has astrong support of Governor MINOS MARIN of Puerto Rico

and is favcratly considered by

I the State Department. RAY has always

received considerable amount

of favorable publicity out of

propoxtion to the importance of his group in the Cuban exile

*circles-

Bureau (RIT)

MAN (inhao 118 (2-26) (R*)

RJD: ban

(6)

ISECRET

105-14543

NOT RECORDED

SHORTERSE,

98 JAN

6 1964

SIDELORR

CIA SIFICATION

ANN.

CON

NW 54464 DooId: 32298093

Page 2

ORIGINAL

---

