# docid-32355931

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10098-10263

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: MEXI

TO

: DIRECTOR

TITLE

REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE

DATE

11/21/1963

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS

REVIEW

PERFORMANCE

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NU 53199 Date:

06-13-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

SECRET

1B

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

06/25/96

COMMENTS : JFK32 : F11: 1996.06.25.16:52:07:780100

[R]

- ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10098-10263

HH 53199

DocId: 32355931

Page

1

---

## Page 2

ATCH

•CLASSIFICATION

SEGRET

Chief, EE Division

INFO.

Chief, WH Division

FROM

Chief of Station, Medeo City

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDSXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

BEDOX/OKROW - Woodrow D. GABBOTI - Review of Performance

ACTION REQUIRED • REFERENCES

Action: See para 5 below.

1. There follows the case officer's evaluation of

ABBOTT during the

past year, proposals for the future, and a request for Headguarterg deciaion.

2. Evaluation of Specific Duties

a.

LIFEAT monitoring and processing. For the past year CABBOTT

has continued performing his main function, that of listening to, transcribing

and typing the take from LIF EAT coverage al various BEDOX targots. This

hao included LIFEAT/LITMUS - an average of three tapes a day, plus sporadic

coverage of targete of operational interest auch as BECOMPLEX and individual

BEDOX officiald' homes. Although case officer predeure must be regularly

applied to keep GABBOTT up to date on thia woris, he does do a commendable

job, nos only in his selection of pertinent trailic, but in terms of the light he

often sheds on the significance of conversations recorded. The very fact that

he has a continuity in the field. plus knowing some of the people involved, haa

baen of read operational aesistance.

b. Operational Development of and Elicitalion from BESEAL. During

the past yes, GABBOTT has been in contact with BESEAL on sa average of

a little less than once a month. In addition to two positive intelligence reporte

(continued)

Distribution:

2 - EE

1 - WH

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Excladeu dom calamatic

downgrading and

declassilication

15693

IT 53199 DocId: 32355931 Page 2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA - 22487

CLASSIFICATION

GECRET

DATE

21 November 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER.

201-

---

## Page 3

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

ZINUATION OF

DISPATCH

SECRET

KMMA -22407

18t were pus on on the baude al these contacta, GABBOTT has been ablo lo

devalop a relativaly clone parsonal ralationship with BESEAl. The sord

"rolativaly' lo uned because, although the freguency of BEdEAL's contact with

CABBOTT leaves something to be dealsad, we are not aware that BESEAL

pande more time with any othor local contact.

Menough ant the subjecs of thie diapatch, is sbould be noted in

pasalag thas RESEAL does not give any indicalion, at tho present time, of

being zocruitable. Nevertheland, the Station plaus to continue BEGIAL/GABBOTT

coatact to give sea condianing savonament of him, plus alfording as a searce

el information on sthor officini BEDOX pereonnal and of positive istolligence.

=. Contact with BECOMPLEX and Family:

CABBOTT had bean sacd

in a minor rolo la the investigalon of BECOMPLEX, & ponalble BEDOX illegal

agoni in Marico CitY, GABBOTT has known BECOMPLEX slighily for several

year. Ho bas boon able so provide un with backgroand information on

BECOMPLEX, bia preson: whereaboute and activities, and leads so othere in

the local commity that know more aboar BECOMPLEt'e past and proment.

d. BRCATCH. GABBOTT provided tho Stalion with the f1ra8 a90888-

ment el BEGAICH, which in fura lod to BECATCH'e recratiment by the case

etlicer, Raderdently of GABBOTT.

3. Evaluation of Overall Periormasco

•. The Station Evaluates GASBOTTa overall performance ae baing

adoquate in moat respacte and inly weat or prolledon (by fitoda repoze

standarda) in a few suprete. More important, there had boen goneral improve-

mont in almost overy roporl dasing the past year.

respect

D. GABBOTT '" outstandias pomilive attribuios are bia linowledgo of

sho local acene, bis altity so spos wartamble operational infor ration la the

largo amouns el garbago to be lound in the LIFEAT matorial, and his abidisy

to devalop porsonal relationshipe vish largera of interoat.

c. His weaknecess, more thoronghly examiaad bolow (under

Problemo) are a need lor close supervision (filly moetings), a lack of organd-

mation leading so occasional tardinose in ssomitting hie work, and diffleulty la

handling his porsonal altairo (financos and morriago), which in turn alfecta

hia prodsesion. Finaily, his incomplote command of Engliah limite his present

and future poteasia..

d. In FOSiNg GABBOTT i to range of genoralist/ spectalise.

GABBOTT clearly emerges an a spocialier. The Starlen belloven that his

activilion should bo limited to LiFEAT type procesning and the dovelopment

and ssecasment of operational targete. It la elenr that he shoald not be

soneidered for rocruitmant or agent handling. His psychological makeup, plue

hie lack of deatre for much sort makee thin poist, obrioud.

1. Psoblome. A revier 2l the problems that alfect GABBOTTe

asilisaston is in order.

110-57 53a

8. Need for Closo Supervision. Wilhout dally contact, is bad boar

proven that GABBOT I procrassinated with his work and inevitably falle bahind.

At bess, coastant pressure tues be applied to keep him current.

Thie leadency

touard tardinoes la submicing his work le in turn partially bared on nevera.

other problems noted balow: namoly, tunrisal difficulties, occasional illness.

piu the rasber romanile, Ampractical nasare of tho man. & ahould ba atreased.

however, thas the loes yon, has vinenned s marked. M not remartable improve.

ment in the &melinees of GABBOTT's reporting. Although this bas nes scoulted

in lensendog tàe nood for close supervision, at least wa have a more productive

CLASSIFICATION

PAGE NO.

REPLACES FORMS

51-28, 51.28A AND 51-29

• WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SEGRET

J CONTINUED

15693

HH

53199- ReaId: 32355931

Page

3

---

## Page 4

CTOB

RITINUATION OF

DISPATCI

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

HIMMA-22437

D. Marriago.

GABBOTT married & Merlean girl, 25 yeare hie

prator. In April 1963.

It has come ao no groni nurprise to the Station that thie

marrlage, between a high-strang middle aged Polo to a high-strung young

Latina, has raoulted la a dallease eituation. GABBOTT has been reporting to

the case officor from lime to time on his lighte with his wile. They aave

soverad a wide rango of locues, but mostly bane themaelves on finances.

The

case officer recondly witnesned what must have been ono of the more halr-

raising of theen marilal inods. Although diffiews to beliavo, the nore day daw

GABBOTT making up with his wie. Despite thie apparent reconciliation, the

cano ollicer thought it necessary to spead with both parties, asparalely, to ery

to determiao tho implications of these mariual louds as regarde the security

and olfictency of GABBOTTe employment with KUBARk.

The sosale of theee

talko was that the case offleer bolloves that, although hareupe such as he

witncanad will almost inevitably socus from tima to timo, there de little doabi

that she two partasie are in love and are oguipped to reconcile after even the

mostliporativo enchanged. Of she two, GABBOTT'e wile appeare to be tho more

willing to give (and forgivo).

The mother-in-law, who livee with GABBOTT and hia wile.

does not in the case seem to be the problem that one would imagins. GABBOTT

inciets shat he liked her vary much and that she often takes his side of the

argament. His wilo confirmod this elnim so the case allicer.

Thoro doss sor appear to be much the cave ollleer can do escopt

munisor thia arriago in erder to be able so continually asaoss tho possible

chanco of permanot astrangement and its eubseguent silecte on GABBOTT'O

KUBARE state. At tho prenant time, the cacoolíicer does not ballove the

situation to be incupportable.

c. Finances.

For the past yoar, GABBOTT has been forced to

repay regalarly to KUNARIS the relatively large amount of money ho owed from

Dio last erlo to Headguartero. An ol 1 December 1905, ha will do on of dabs.

Hio inability to make paymants on a voluntary basis. tried for covera, monto.

togother mill the financial burden of repaymen: (at she rate el 8130 US per

month for nomo 10 montho), hao beos tho causce conciderable concor to

GABBOTT and lao 22 occasion seat him hate depte ol despendency and sell-pity.

His inability, at loast anil recently, to "audges his vile has addod te hie

problems. It 1a hoped, nou thar he has with tho case officer's guidance,

ortablished somo elementary arrangemonis for a honuehold badger, and will

momentarily ho eat of dubi, has thia particular probiem vill bacome alleviated.

On the other band, the cane sitteer reallutically muat admit that he doen not

foredo the day whon GABBOTT mill becoma allo so control his Anancial 1ie

ln a completely competons munner. He de almply not enough "of tale world"

do ever get comploto y an top os thia oituntion. That he cas. witi suparvision,

maintaia an acceptable financal condition da out forvent hope and cautioas belial.

5. Conclusions and Proposals.

• Is she precediag paragraphe, the case olficer bre allempted lo

lay on the line his ernct evaluation al GABBOTT's present performance, bis

atrengths and weakneanes. The conclusion is that shostation is sallelied. that

be meots KUBARi employment standarde. Although fully realiming that he

does not represent one of the orgarinationa custanding asanta, he loco not fall

into the calogory of those thai should bo fired. It this propouision la decepted.

the nexs question is wanther or 2ot hia abilities are being atillied no fully as

possible la Merico.

Do Obstenaly, the Station is not la pa good & postion as Headquartare

do answer this quantion.

14, borever, our abllity to see the fall range of

opportantos for GABBOTTe allination lo limitod, our ability to stact up

FORM

10.57 530

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORMIS

51-28. 51-28A AND 51-29

WHICH ARE GUSULEIE

CLASSIFICATION

SIC BE T

CONTINUED

PAGE NO

3.

15693

WH 53199 DocId: 32355931

Page

4

---

## Page 5

* CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SACRES

HMMA -28487

CASBOTT agalst the annal ran of activitied in laisly good. The Station wenid

oscinda from conaldoration, los oxamplo, any job that roguired good to

excellent command of uritten English.

The would immediately knock out

any finichod trannlatios vort. In addition, GABBOTT choald ast be considered

for any creative (KUWOLT) wriling. Ho la just a little too zomantic and

Impractical to wors in thia field. Previously mentioned bas worth reponling

1o ous firm boliot has GABSOTT should not be used as an agent handlor or

socruiser.

This, Rhon, as far as tho Station can analyse tbo problem, brings

us to the conclunios thas GABBOTI lo doing here in Mexico tho kiad of work be

1a bestauired for.. The nost questien is whether or not he shoald be vcnt

elnowhere. There jo tho usual argument that a mas shoald so sorve in the

arcs thas in his wife's native country. Balanced againt thie perfecily sound

theoretical judgement is the lack, noted at loant by inference above, that

NICH O MABBOTT A presoRt Unius in ba80d on his long term is yoato.

acguarance with to local scens, poople, languago, ares. Of some Importance

te the fact that both GADEOTT ard hie rile bove evidenced a destro to remain

in serico.

d. From dir limited varingo point, thore appeare a nigas advaalage

8O KUBARK In Iotaining GABBOTT in Monico for the fortoonble tutre, barring

any moranning of the problema nated in paragrapa & abovs. Obvioualy, late le

¿ Headgaastero decisien and the Station reysonte that Headquartere Inferm se

of that doctoion.

•. GABBOTT presumably hao abou: 10 more yeara el service

remalalag balore retirement. The Station subrite that Headguartere now

maha some kind ol general plan los these len yeare. The options sha: occur lo

No 200:

(1) tO tranalor GABBOTT so some olber post withia a your

05.203

(2) 80 plan on making GABBOTT a loag-term Merican resident

complete with "rontiata" statue,

(3) 80 recall GABBOTT and torminate his contrace.

1. The States would opt for taking steps so male li posalble for

GABBOTT to romain la Menico for a long pariod of Elme (rentiota esataa).

but wish the clear undor standing that li he becomes any more of a bundling

problom than he ia now, he would be transferrod. to Headquartaro for other

duty or torminati

Hondquarters commente and decision in this regard are

raquested.

Willard G. CURTIs

FORM.'

10-57 550

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

REPLACES FORAIS

51-28, 51-38A AND 51-29.

WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

HH 53199 DocId: 32355931

Page 5

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.

15693

---

