# docid-32303758

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10270

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-260

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BUSH, PAUL E.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/01/1963

11

LCN, SMALDONE, CLYDE GEORGE, ASSOC, REL,

PROBATION, EMP, GAMBLING, RACK ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32303758 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-283 (Rev. 5-1-59

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DENVER

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

LA CAUSA NOSTRA

DENVER DIVISION

DATE

6/1/63

REPORT MADE BY

SA PAUL E. BUSH

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/1/63 - 6/1/63

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

rab

REFERENCES:

New York airtel to the Bureau dated 5/1/63.

Denver letter to New York dated 4/8/63.

San Francisco airtel to Denver and New York

dated 3/25/63.

Denver airtel to New York and San Francisco

dated 3/8/63.

San Francisco airtel to the Bureau dated 2/27/63.

- RUC -

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU

Original and one copy of letterhead memorandum

characterizing informants.

TO NEW YORK

-A-

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARG

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-260

REC- 52

2

2

Bureau

(92-6054) (Бn9, 2)

-

New York (92-2315) Enc. 1)

- Denver (92-222 CIV

i2. JUN

3 1963

1 of Vase?

¡ COPTE DR

MAn 29 1:0

AGENCY.

ARE NATION RECORD C: ATTACHED REPOSED.

NOTATIONS

file Mopie

EBI

0.d

BY.

C"e

er

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18—76324-1

> NW 45839 DocId: 32303758 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DN 92-222

One copy of letterhead memorandum characterizing

informants.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 2/27/63, the San Francisco division reported

that on that date SF-2550-C-TE informed SA ROY L. ERICKSON

that he was visiting with ALEX CAMARATA, a neighbor of his,

on the night of 2/26/63 and that during the discussion at

CAMARATA's residence, the informant mentioned that he

recalled that PETE MISURACA once stated that he had been

to Jackson Hole, Wyoming with HAROLD SMITH. CAMARATA became

with HAROLD

very upset over this and stated that MISURACA should not

have mentioned this; that the "organization" had checked

up on PETE MISURACA and his activities at Jackson Hole,

Wyoming through a person he identified as LOUIE BOSCHETTO

(phonetic). He identified BOSCHETTO as a "friend of ours" '

which indicates that BOSCHETTO is a member of the

"organization." According to the informant, CAMARATA

stated that BOSCHETTO was a senator of some kind and

owned the El Rancho in Rock Springs, Wyoming.

San Francisco further reported that the

informant and CAMARATA are both members of La Causa

Nostra and were involved with PETE MISURACA in an

attempted extortion of HAROLD SMITH, 'part owner of

Harold's Club, Reno, Nevada, based on an alleged debt

owed to MISURACA by SMITH.

Several trips to Reno were

taken by CAMARATA and MISURACA and the informant in

this connection. Subsequently, there was a dispute

between CAMARATA, MISURACA and

the informant since

MISURACA was desirous of

pressing the matter, even

though "the organization" had ordered it to be dropped.

On 3/8/63, DenvergrequestediSän Francisco and

New York by airtel to furnish Denver with additional

details to establish approximate dates pertinent to the

incident allegedly involving BOSCHETTO in order that

- B-

COVER PAGE

SPri

109.12

NW 45839 DocId: 32303758 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DN 92-222

additional inquiries might be made and consideration be

given to the advisability of interviewing BOSCHETTO.

On 3/25/63, San Francisco reported that

SF-2550-C-TE had been recontacted for further details

but had stated that when the above information was given

him concerning this matter by ALEX CAMARATA he was not

in a position to question CAMARATA further, and he could

not again bring up the matter without bringing suspicior

apon himself. Informant stated that he would be alert

for any possibilities in the future by which he may

bring up this subject with CAMARATA and endeavor to

develop additional details.

Activities of CLYDE and CHECKERS SMALDONE, who

are mentioned in this report, are under investigation in

the Denver Division and are being reported in detail in

the case entitled CLYDE GEORGE SMALDONE, aka; ET AL,

AR, Denver file 92-244, Bufile 92-6388.

Activities of JAMES COLLETTI, Pueblo, Colorado,

who is the only Apalachin attendee residing in the Denver

Division, have been covered in Denver case entitled

JAMES COLLETTI, aka, AR, Denver file 92-23, Bufile 92-2695.

No information has been developed indicating that

COLLETTI has been involved in criminal activities since

the Apalachin meeting in November, 1957.

INFORMANTS:

I-1 is DN 249-C, contacted by SA PAUL E. BUSH.

T-2 is DN 110-c, contacted by SA PAUL E. BUSH.

T-3 is DN 239-C, contacted by SA PAUL E. BUSH.

T-4 is DN 232-C, contacted by SA PAUL E. BUSH.

T-5 is PCI

• contacted by

SA HARRY V.

JONES.

T-6 is PCI

contacted by SA

PAUL E.

BUSH.

T-7 is SF-2550-C-TE, contacted by SA ROY L.

ERICKSON.

-cx-

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

SP.1i08 19

NW 45839 DocId: 32303758 Page 4

---

