# docid-32287797

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10198-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-522

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/05/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CIP, ADVICE, ASSOC, CRABTREE, HELEN, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287797

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Note)'6 (RebATE:-5{1-11-2017

AOt Of 1992 (14 USC 2107

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

AIRTEL

5/5/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAII

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY! SUMMARY

On 4/24/62 THOMAS ALTAMURA (Miami File 92-410)

was observed boarding a plane for New York City. New York

and nephew of JOSEPH PROFACI met ALTAMURA at the Brasseri /< 17

Restaurant, New York City and ALTAMURA was informed of

SAL CURTIS's first recording, and ALTAMURA insisted they

send or bring the edited recording to Miami and he would

see that it is placed in Juke Boxes in the Miami area.

MM 509-C on 4/24/62, advised that BENJAMIN -

HUSICK (Miami File 162-80) opened a gambling and book,

making club, generally referred to as "Benny's Place,"

but which actually bears the name of Miami Beach, Number

1651, Loyal Order of the Moose and is located at 713

Washington Ave., Miami Beach, Fla.

He stated he heard

that on sunday,

Approved:

Bureau (AM)

Miami

REF/ gt zuecri

(5)

QU MAY 451962 i€ V: 28

1 1.0

W.G. SPropp

Special Agent in ChargeR REsent

62-9-29-577

• MAY * 1962

Per

DocId: 32287797 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FLA

6. 1

MM 92-515

was regarded as a "racket individual" and that individual

was PHIL ZIMMER.

He pointed out that other "racket

individuals"

however, were in the club at the time and

that a few of these individuals were HERKIE WILENSKY,

HARRY WILENSKY, HICKIE SCHWARTZ and WILLIE BITNER.

This source at the sametime reported that JOHN

ANGERSOLA, akä John King, (Miami File 92-100) reappeared

at the Midtown Social Club, Miami Beach, Fla:' "Blackie"

after a long

absence, and got involved in an argument with

a bookmaker at Harrison Levenson's Georges "Newstand"

Miami Beach. This argument involved some activity in a

"Pam" card game.

In addition, this source advised that he

was told two of AnGERSOLA's nephews, one of which is JOHN

ZANETTI have opened a Chinese Restaurant next to the Five

O'Clock Club, Miami Beach.

On 4/27/62, MM 509-C also advised that due to the

closing of the Midtown Social Club, Miami Beach, JIMMY

CoFfee, brother of MICHAEL COPPODA, (Miami File 92-101),

EDDIE GOLD, GEORGEANC ELROY, JOE BONMARITO (Miami. File 92-144),

who frequented that club are now frequenting the

Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, and are about ready to

operate their first "Pam" card

game there.

According to

He also advised that it

was obvious to the gamblers and bookmakers who frequent the

various hangouts at Miami Beach, that the COPPOLA group from

the Midtown Social Club would in 3 or 4 months secure control

of the Patio Bridge Club.

EDWARD HILKER, Special Agent, Internal Revenue

Service, advised that HERSHIE LAFF's trial date had been

set for

May 28, 1962, in Miami and that the motions to

suppress the

evidence, which had been brought in behalf of

LAFF, had been denied

py suage ChoAtE, USDe, SDE, on 3/7/02.

LAFF

was arrested on 11/18/61,

by IRs Agents for

failure to

possess

a Federal Wagering Tax Stamp.

= 2 -

1D188-10093

•DocId:32287797 Page 3

---

