# docid-32326631

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90055-10223

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89923-32

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/20/1960

2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ANTONIO DE VARONA

CLIP

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

Redact

06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v01

54463

DocId: 32326631

Page

24

---

## Page 2

•FD-35 (Rev. 12-13-56)

500°

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

+ Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

INY 105-40574758141

JOHN DAVID GRIFFIN, Public Relations

man associated with Dr. CARLOS MARQUEZ STERLING,

head of the Movimento del Pueblo Libre (MPL), advised on

6/17/60, that in discussion with MARQUEZ STERLING, MARQUEZ

had stated that TONY VARONA has been unsuccessful

in bringing

the various Cuban exile groups together because of a state-

ment attributed to VARONA.

GRIFFIN said that the statement

alleged to have been made by VARONA was to the effect that

the Cuban exiles would take care of the present Cuban

Government without the assistance of the United States or

by MARQUEZ STERLING that AURELIANO SANCHEZ ARANGO had

agreed with the statement of VARONA. GRIFFIN advised

that

attributed to VARONA.

NY 2865-PSI on 6/10/60, had stated that

DI. ANTONIO VARONA had made a public statement whereby

he said that should he be successful in getting into

power in Cuba, he would grant a general amnesty to all con-

nected with the government formed 1/1/59.

The informant

stated that many Cuban exiles did not like this statement

which was alleged to have been published in Miami, Florida.

The informant stated that Dr. JORGE BARROSO, former head of

the Sugar Institute, had gone to Miami to confer with VARONA

sagarains the statement aslee do have poen wade by titont

The above is being submitted for the in-

formation of the Bureau and Miami.

1, 4.

- 2-

Approved:

Sent

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

IN 54463 DocId:32326631 Page 2

---

