# docid-32310274

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10302-10218

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1499-4TH NR 12

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, EP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/26/1958

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FS, ASSOC, ARREST, WEAPONS, PRO-CASTRO, CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY ACT, BKG, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32310274

Page 1

---

## Page 2

EP 105-504

CONFIDENTIAR

Mential

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA:

Copies of the enclosed lotterhead memorandum are boing sent

to the foregoing offices in the event similar type operations of cuba.

Nationals and or foroignors come to their attention.

In addition, this memorandum idontifies individuals formerly

residing in Miami and

Phoenix. Miami and Phoenix may have a future

interest in those individuals or their associates.

The indices of the El Paso Office were negative concerning

IVAN BEISEL, FRANK A. FIORINI, PEDRO L. DIAZ and RICARDO I. LORIE.

Copies of this momorandum have been furnished United States

Customs, El Paso, and United States Immigration Border Patrol, El Paso.

ROBERT BRENNAN, Investigator, Air Intelligonce Section, United

States Immigration Bordar Patrol, El Paso, has advisad that his agency is

actively conducting investigation regarding the subject matter of enclosed

memorandum.

In addition, BRENNAN advised all portinent information has been

furnished to their representative, CHARLES J. BEECHIE, Attache, American

Embassy, Mexico, D. F., for appropriato action.

BRENNAN will advise El Paso upon receipt of any additional

intolligonce information rogarding Cuban Revolutlonary Activitios:

No investigation is being conducted by El Paso and none requested

of the other officos, UACB.

IDENTIFICATION OF INFORMANT

T: 2E35157484 dal furnishad the lafolion containe

as onciosed memorandum to SA LAWRENCE F. WIRICK, JR., on November 24, 1958.

CLASSIFICATION:

The enclosed memorandum has boon classified "Confidential" Inasmuch

contains information roceived from an Informant operating in a foreign

canen 19044

61a1

CON-DENTAL:

NW 54462 DooId:32310274 Page 2

---

