# docid-32290704

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10480

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-106995-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/10/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, ACA, INACTIVITY, CUBAN

EXILE GROUPS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45676

DocId: 32290704

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM

NO. 10

S00=1t4-

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorar dum

SECRED

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-106995)

DATE:

7-10-62

FROM

SAC, WFO (105-46431) (RUC)

SUBTECT:

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, aka

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

IS-CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RA-CUBA

RELEAS

* CIA INFORMATIO ,00: MM)

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM 9-15-97

1-91 JFK

SUD IS ReMMrep of SA LEMAN J. STAFFORD, JR., dated

5+3-62.

9.3044 SPOMAC/EN JFK)

MULTIES PLES

Declassify on: DADR 6/17/85

CLASE FIED PER TAELI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WIERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

On 5-28-62,

SA KENNETH J. HASER caused a check

o fo

the records of

the USDS to be made but no record

• /1

identifiable with the captioned group or its

JUSTO

CARRILLO HERNANDEZ, could be located.

leader,

A'.

On 6-13-62,

SA ROBERT H. BURKART was advised by

representative of CIA that the only pertinent identifiable

information concerning the captioned group is what was sent

by CIA to the Bureau in a communication identified as

CS-3/378,063, dated 11-24-58, under the caption "Montecristi

Organization, Member of the Civic Revolutionary Front (FCR).

On 6-15-62, WF 1161-S

advised SA HOWARD P. WINTER

that he had no pertinent

information concerning the

captioned group since it was not represented in

Washington, D. C.

On 6-19-62, Mrs. ULDA ELDRED, Registration

Section, Internal Security Division, U. S. Department of

Justice, advised SA DONALD HOETING that neither the captioned

group nor JUSTO CARRILLO are registered as agents of a foreign

principal within the purview of the Foreign Agents Registration

Act of 1938, as amended.

DWAX

#' 0°

CIAIN

2.

Bureau

-Miami (105-4719) (RM)

1

-

WFO

TEC 50

ROs

105-106222511

ONLY

5 JUL 11 1962

BAD LAILERRIN

DH: ctw

(5)

REG- 105

MAT.

-SEL REVERSE

SIDE FOR

I CLASSIFICATION

51 JUL 181962

SECRET

NW 45676 DocId:32290704 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRETE

WFO 105-46431

In connection with CARLOS MARTINEZ mentioned

on page 4 of rerep, WF 1317-S, who has furnished reliable

information in

the

past, advised SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL on

7-6-62, that subject is not known to him.

On 7-9-62,

WE source of

information, protect and characterize as having furnished

reliable information in the past, advised SA DONALD HOETING

that although MARTINEZ is known to him as a very good friend

Of JUSTO CARRILLO, MARTINEZ is not active on behalf of

captioned organization.. 1

• stated he believed that

the inactivity of the group was brought about because of

the friction and jealousies among the various Cuban exile

groups.

It is also noted that Mrs. ELDRED, mentioned

above, advised on 6-19-62, that MARTINEZ is not registered

either as an agent of a foreign principal

within the purview

of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended.

The above is not being incorporated into form

suitable for dissemination since all the information was

negative.

SECRET:

12N032

-2-

902-10480

NW 45676 DocId: 32290704 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

