# docid-32272998

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/18/201

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10145-10211

RECORD SERIES :

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 54-04-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

5

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Lase#:AM 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

VARONA, ANTONIO

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

NOTES

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 28

I 53080 DocId: 32272998

Page 1

---

## Page 2

..o!

SECRET

v= varona.

Lestie Wizelman

OFFICE OF SECURITY - VARONA FILE- SUMMARY

I. Chronology of Varone activities

16 December 1957- Varona is president of the Council for the Liberation of Cuba-

An organization credted to form a united front against Cuan

Batista Government.

13 January 1958-

Memo for Chief CI/OA from DDS re operational approval for

Verona's use as an informant in Cuba by WH Division. REcommend

that "suitable controls" to prevent " the possibility of his

becoming, a source of embarrassment to the Agency" be estab-

lished.

20 January 1958

Varona is granted Operational Approval

28 August 1959

Varona is granted Operational Approval-Amended

17 or 18 April 1960- Vanna plans to leave Havanafor Caracas to attend Congress

for Democracy

21 April 1960- Congress for Democracy convenes

Note: Varona is being considered in connection with Project ZENITH and

will be paroled into the United States under the Special Agreement between

the Attorney General and the DCI.

4 May 1960

Varona arrived NYC from Caracas

**##/##*#***

13 May 1960

****#/#****#****#*#*#**##

Varona arrived Maimi unaanouced, Convinced Immigration

Inspector that they were going back.

27 May 1960

Varona left Miami for Caracas

2 June 1960

Varona arrived in Miami, detained by Immigration office. Varona

was paroled into US under Par # 3 of JMARC Field Handling

Procedures.

14 June 1960

17 June 1960

18-19 June 1960

23 June 1960

24 June 1960

25 June 1960

28 June 1960

Varona is in Washington and leaves for NYC

Varona to go to Puerto Rico

Varona to goto San Jose, Costa Rica via Panama

Varona to go to leguel galpa, Hondoras

Varona to go to Guatemala

Varona to go to Mexico

Varona to go to N.Y.C. , via Houston- V arrived Houston at

7:50 P.M. and left for N.Y. at 10:00P.M.

In New Yrk City V was going to stay at the Statler Hotel

and contact Mr. Pujan at the Pierre Hotel on the morning of

the 29th. He would remain in NY until approx. July 3 and

then return to Miami for 3 i5 4 weeks. Then return Mexico City

28 June 1960

20 Aug 1960

14 Sept 1960

Sanchez Arango arrived NY.

Varona arrived in Miami and Planned to stay two days in Los

Angelos and then return Mexico City

Varona would arrive N.Y.C. at 6 P.M. via Fastern Flight from

Mexico City. V will stat in #*## NYC for 2 days and return

Miami on Sept 17.

17e% Sept 1960

Verona returns Miami- Address: 115 Venetian Way, San Mãrino

Island, Miami Florida.

81 Feb 1961

V paid $10,000 tor special project (See Sect IV.

Feb 14 1961

Feb 109, 1961

Varona, Artime, Maceo, ₩# and Rey will depart for Guatemala

Varona, Artime, Maceo will arrive JMFIG On 19 Feb

27 #*H

March, 1961

Varona, Aptime, Hevia, Alegos, Cardona would depart JMFIG

SECRET

HH 53080 DooId: 32272998

Page 2

---

## Page 3

•„Page ?

• * 22 Aug 1964

SECRET..

it is poi

"Cuban Anti-castro Chief by Day Selling Cars in Jersey by Night"

months ago and working for Carey Chevrolet in evenings. During

day works with Rescue Democratic Revolutionary Movement at 466

oth Ave.

II. Information re Cellini-Moss-Varona

The following info is from a memorandum dated 14 May 1973 to the Deputy

Chief, Seculty Research Staff from Jerry Brown re Moss, Edward K.# 172 646.

Bronx refers to an FBI letterhead memo dated 18 January 1961 captioned "

"Manuel Antonio Varona, Internal Secutity-Cuba" which contains information

furnished to the FBI by a "representative of an agency of the U.S.

government."

The following information was supplied" A Washington

businessman called en the source and "expressed great concern about the

relationships of one of the reputed anti-Castro group leaders with

representatives of the so-called Intermational Crime Syndicate." His

obeervations were :

1. Varona has hired Edward K. Moss as his assistant for raising funds

to finance operations against Cuba.

2. Julia Cellini is alleged to be Moss' mistress. She operates a

secretarial service at 1025 Conn. Ave. NW. which is alleged to

be a front for Edward K. Moss' activities.

3. Julia's brother, Dino Cellini and his other brother are active fronts

for two of largest casinos in Cuba during Batista regime

4. It is alleged that the Cellini brothers are in close contact with

Varona through Moss and ih have offered sums, (considerable sums)

of money (reported as high as 2 million dollars) through Moss to

Varona to finance operations against the Castro Regime with an

understanding that they would have the major slice "in the Cuba

of the future.".

5.

Harry Tomlinson, 71Y E. Oak St. Lakeland Florida had been offered

position of supervisor of fundraising and public relations but

declined position. It was reported that Tomlinson is fully familiar

with activities of Moss and relationship with VArona. Tomlinson has

taken a position with Upjohn Pharmeceutical company, Kalamazoo,

Michigan®

6. Reported

that American business man are being contacted by Moss'

organization to solicit funds for Varona's operation.

This memo contains additional info on the Cellini's, FBI # for Dino is

2198122. Edward Groffredo Cellini and Groffredo Cellini wereknown to

be evening manager and afternoon manager respectively, at the Casin

International in Havan?. Dino was employed at the Iropicana and Rivera. He

then went to Haiti and was in Miami in 1961. Dino's 201 number is 885706

A 19 Nov 19144. Dino was detained in May 1959 i=\##### in Havana by

Cuban authorities at the request of U.S. bureau of Narcotics. He was released

on June 1959 for lack of evidence. $201 file was opened in 1971 when Cellini

was living in Rome.

Associates- Meyer Lansky (### OS 623652); Edward

That ca Michael MeClaney (oS 509046) :

's secretary from 1950-53

"who later became a close

business parhner of Moss." In 1971-72 she resided at 8144 Eastern Ave. NW.

SECRET

HH

53080

DooId: 32272998

Page

---

## Page 4

SECRET

Page 3

III. ###+# Richard Cain Information

and miscellanéous Chicago info

A. Report dated 12 Oct 1960 from Robert P.B. Lohmann of Chicago Office-

Richard Cain reported he had a meeting with the Chicago head of the Counter

Revolutionary Movement in Cuba. He was put in touch with this individual by

William Buenz. He has also spoken with Jack Mabely, a columnist for the Chicago

Daily News. He claims they have arradied for him to go to Cuba to take pictures

for the Daily News and Life.

He will be flown to Cuba from an airstrip in

Alabama or Florida.

Report includes backgnound data on Cain. Cain was born

oct 4, 19131, 1947, at the age of 15, he joined the Army. Discharged 1950.

From 1950 to date he has been employed by William J. Burns Detective Agency in

Dallas, Texas and Chicago, Ill. He was also in the private detective pusiness

in Miami and worked for a

time with UPS.

In 1956 he joined the Chicago Police

e also operated Accurate Laboratories, a private investigative business.

Cain speaks Spanish and Italian, and Flys plane

B. Report dated 8 Dec 1960 by Lohmann. Cain reported they were unable

to get him to Cuba. He did, however, get off shore a couple times. Cain stated

that during his stay in Miami, he spent some time in the Intelligence office

of the DRF (FRD???) and leaned the location of Soviet equipment in Cuba which

he passed on to the FBI.

C. Report dated 9 June 1961 by Lohman-

Richard Cain "who is doing

various jobs for the Cuban FRD informed me that Angela Salano, one of

Tony Varona's men, was approached by two girls in Chicago." It was an

accidental meeting, according to cain. Salano asked Cain to check on the girls

who were Christed Maeller Schaefel, employed by the German consulate in chicago,

and Giselle Krumen, a German Tourist Agency employee.

D. Report dated 17 May 1961- Cain has been hired # as a bodyguard

for Jose Rasco during Rasco's visit to Chicago. According to Cain, Manny

Fefferman has been given authority to collect funds for the MDC in Chicago

by Rasco.

E. Report of a "confidential informant' of the Field Office, Chicago-

(probably not Cain)

On Aug 7, 1963 Informant

stated he had leanned that

while Varona was in Chicago recently (July 1963), four underworld figures made

a contribution # of $200000 to him. Two of the figures are unknown. The other

two are Moe Ginacana and Murray (The Canal) Humphreys. He also said Miro

Cardozo (Cardona???) wanted to buy guns. Cardozo is employed by American

F. 23 Aug 1963 - Cain reported he ahd been approached by representative

of the DRE and they attempted to recmuit him to be trained in Central Am.

The person who contacted him spoke on the phone in his presence to some

one in Miami named Salmant or Salvat, and asked if his group is sponsorea by

the CIA. Salvat said the group was sponsored by "the pentagon, which is in

competition with CIA, and, therefore, all activities of the Direcdory must be

kept secret."

Go Report dated 29 Aug 1963 by confidential source who stated that

two Cubans had told him that Dr. Olivara is the Cuban CIA representative in Chic-

ago. The Chicago office has no iñformation on Olivara. Did find an article

in the Chicago Daily News dated Oct 1962 which states that Dr. Arimaro (sp??)

Olivara was elected coordinator of the united front of Chicago Council for

Democratic Cuba, 30th of Nov Movement, Dem. Revolutionary Rescue, DRE, and Cuban

Association of Cheiago.

SECRET

NW 53080 DooId: 32272998 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Page 4

H. I Miro Cardozo contacted Cain on 30 Aug 1963 and wanted some help in

locating arms. He told Cain that Duque (phonetic) in Miami was desparate,

because there were some men already in Cuba and some ready to go. Cain

told Cardozo he had lost his contacts. In connection with conversation

I. Report on Cuban exile activities in Spain. Chicago office obtained

a letter written from Spain by Angel Solano on 1 Sept 1963. Angel went

to spain in 1961 and now is an actor. Stated that Prio was in Spain last

week at the same time Batista was in Madrid. Rumor in Spain that an

interview or meeting took place between the two.

" Information saupplied by unnamed source: On Sept 11, 1963, 6 PM source

met Serapio Montejo, a truff naturalized American, and a Cuban exile named

Torres. Montejo was the former director of the Frente in Chicago, and

associated with Varona. Source was introduced to Jose Miro Cardozo by Montejo

in Miami prior to the Bay of Pigs. Source was told that Torres is the

purchasing agent for DRE. They asid source to assist Torres in the purchase

of certain weapons. The transportation of the weapons was to be supplied

by Torres. Source describes Torres as 25, 5'8'', 150 Ibs., dark straight

hair, clean features. Torres remarked that the CIA is using Cuba as a pawn

in international dealings, and his organization is concerned with Cuba exclusive-

ly as a national matter.

Source was given a list of arms and supplies they

wanted which is attached to this report.

IV. Rosselli/VArona/ Mafia plots

A. Report by James O'Connell dated 26 Dec. 1968. Rosedli called JIm

and

stated he "ran into the 'principal contact' of our project. ''I asked if he

meant Tony, and he replied in the affirmative (Tony Varona). He had not

seen him in several years until this chance meeting at the Fontainbleu

Hotel. They had lunch together

and during the luncheon, Iony indicated that

there were several "strong men" from the Caribbean area in Miami that were

determined

to overthoow some of the current regimes in their respective

countries." Nicaragua in particualr was mentioned. "Varona stated that

he along with other leaders felt very bitter toward the Agency, and any

effort initiated by them would be done without requesting any assistance

from us. The basic complaint was that there were too many leaks in the

security of the Agency." Varona reported that he keeps aware of what's

happening in uba through the brother of a high cuban official who is

supposed to be #5 in the Castro regime.

B. Memo re Johnny Roselli to DCI dated 9 Dec. 1970. Related IG story.

Starts in Aug 1960 when-Richard M. Bissell approached Sheffield Edwards to

determine if Office of S curity had

assets that may assist in a sensitive

mission requiring Bangster type action. Target was Castro. DEI was brieded (Dules)

aga gave approval. Colonel J.C. King was also briefed. Certain TSD and Commun-

ications people participated but were not witting of misiion. O'connell

was Roselli's contact until May of 1962. During week of Sept 25 Mahew was

Joe gave the pills to orta,

but Orta got cold flet. "Joe then indicated that Dr. Anthony Varona, one

of the principalofficers in the Cuban exle junta, had beomee disallected with

the apparent ineffectual progress of the Junta and was willing to handle

the mission through his own resources." " He asked as a prerequisite to the

expenses and $1, 000 worth of communication equipment. Dr. Varona's potential

were retrieved."

SECRET

HIH

53080 DooId: 32272998

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Page 5.

SECRET

C. Memo for IG, Attention Mr. John Leader from Charles W. Kane-DS dated 22 May

1975. States that a review of Os files relating to Robert Maheu, Johnny

Roselli, and Giancana disclosed operation against Castro was approved by Dulles.

$150, 000 was authorized. An undated, unsighed memo in Maheu's file indicates

$10,000 plus $1000 of communications

or peraon who pata the noney Is nots the that were elven to varune. Ihe date

Neither Hunt nor McCord were incharge of Mesico operations in 1963. Hunt

was assigned to DDP/CA Staff, Office of the Chief, Hdg. Collateral duties

with DDP/Domestic Operations Division/ Facilities Branch. Hunt was

assigned to these starts from Nov 19ot, to Feb 1905.

D. Memo from DS to Chief WH Division-

ayments for special project

25 Sept 1960- Feb 6, 1961 To Cut Out-

$6900

11 Feb 1961

To principal agent

31 Jan 1961 to 14 Feb 1961 Communication

.1043.08

26 Sept 60 to 12 Feb 61 Miscellaneous

993.87

D. Confidential Funds posting voucher 6-26-61

I. Memo which states that nothing in security files to clarify thei 6900

paid to a cutout.

Information on Juan Ortall DOB: 5-28-6; 1965 he

was residing in Mexico &City but planning on returning to Miami.

Memo also states that Varona is reported ato have used his i son-in-law

in the special project.

3rd Agency Material in File

1. R sults of 1957 Name Check /ACSI + FBI

2. Ilvestigative Data- Partial BI conducted in 1957, INS File Review

3. FBI results of 1960 Name Check

4. FBI-1 page report dated 28 Feb 1961 at NYC re Varona

5. FBI report dated 13 Oct 1961 in name of Roy Paul Mackal aka Markle

6. Personal information.

SECRET

HH 53080

DocId: 32272998

Page 6

---

