# docid-32350064

## Page 1

Date: 12/22/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10073-10190

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY

FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

: CHIEF, EE

AMERICAN CITIZENS ON ((DELETION) ) WATCHLIST.

SUBJECTS

WATCHLIST

US CITIZEN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : JFK16 : F44: 1993.07.15.17:23:13:250480

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10073-10190

MH 53199

DocId: 32350064

Page

1

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

Chief, BB

Chief of Station, Athens

FRIDA

SUILECT

Chief of Base, Thessalon

¿American Citizens on BICANTAR Watchl1st

ACTION REQUIRED

-See paragraph No. 2

LET ERENCENI

DISPIPCH STADDI AND NO

-EKSA • 274

HEADQUARTERS FILL NO

33

8.500-

DATE

13 FEB T88!

1963

RE:

"43.5" - (CHECK "X" ONE

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEINO REQUIRED

INDEXINO CAN BE JUDOED

BY QUALRED HQ. DESK ONLY

Following are translations of two BiCANTAl directives sent to

all passport control points in Greece.

•C11. 154

XEANSKY, Meyer/ Amerioan Jew,

unknowns

gambler, criminal, other detaile

Attached hereto is a reproduced photograph of the

above and we request that any entrance into

Subject be immediately reported vy wire;

local police officials be briefed in order to arrange

a continous surveillance for detection of suspicious

contacts

and activities.

He is a ghady character having dealing and relations

of every tipe with the underworld

traveled by air from switzerland to Athens, on 23 Septanber

from Athens to Istanbul, and on 25 September from Istanbul

to Tol Avivo

EITiUSA

GUS, Alex born 1916, nolder of passport

_ No. 1569555 and FEUGEr,

Suganne or FUBGER, Dietgaro.

We request an immediate report by wire in the

that the above enter Greece between 22 December 1962 and

, the end of March 19638

and brial the local police officials

for necessary surveillance of their contacts which should

be reported to us.

They have planned a trip from America.

via sultzerland,

Italy and Greece in order to visit distant relatives in

Upon their arrival 1t will be necessaryto make a close

search o the lane so money mich they may

be carrying on their persons or in their luggage.

According to information Gu. goes about carrying a

_gun in the United States.

lie 19.

considered to be dangerous

and has suicidal tendencies.

The above directives were received covertly fiom THUNION/ 35 and

are forwarded for your information an possible action.

Perhaps ODENVY

and OLACID would be interested in these matters,

BCANTAR '& source of

Information on these people is not known.

For Athens, The Athens Station night deem it advisable to pass

this information to the local ODICID representative.

INDEXX

Martin A Colello

Murtan K. COLELLA

Distributions

Orig & & Chier, BE

3 Chief of Station, Athens

CS COPY

USE FREVIOUS EDITION

PAGE NO

2

I CONTINUED

or we sai

AGENTORE CARD

REPRODUCTIONS

# 10756

---

