# docid-32304363

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10285-10375

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR-105-268779-2

Released under the John

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, WMFO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE::

DATE: 10/08/1974

• PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

EDWARD K. MOSS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/10/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32304363

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JULY 1973 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOV

- NMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

≤ U)

DATE:

SECRET

1018174J59414)

SAC, WFO (105-126727)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

UNSUB:

Visitor to Czech Embassy, *(U

8/5/2h Base ant of Ford, DISTRiCT

DISTRICT OF COLUmbIa

Visitors to Czechoslovakia

IS - CZ

*(00: WFO)

7-297

CLASSIFIED BY 56685LD/SSR

4K(1)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

Remyairtel,

8/14/74

entitled as above.

Reairtel se

Gorth registered owner of

captioned vehicle as

RD KIPER MOSS, born 6/23/16,

1600 Foxhall Road,

N.W., Washington, D.C. Land that

lancaste, fa

purpose

visit was for obtaining a visa per

WF 2115+

SA CHARLES W. SMITH caused a search to be made

of the records of The

Credit Bureau, Inc., WDC, and was

advised that EDWARD K-TMOSS, age 57, 1600 Foxhall Road,

668 S2D/ECL

BADR /56r)

N.W., WDC, was listed as the

• owner of MOSS INTER

ECONOMIC COUNSEL.

SC SHIRLEY GARNER caused a

REC5 705-268779

search to be made

of the files of

assport Office, U.S. Department of State,

and on 9/18/74

was determined that EDWARD KIPER MOSS,

Classified

Declassifv on:

born 6/23/16, at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, has been in

possession of a U.S. passport but his applications could

not be located. It was suggested that his name be sub-

mitted at a later date.

copies made

/OCT 9 1974013

Ior review at FBIHQ hy

2052

HISCHI

1120|28

-

Bureau

791819104

ECLASSTITUAFT

_copies made

3

- WFO

(1- 121-25750)

TBIHA bI

1974K1

forrevier to HSCT

5-4/184) (Visitors to Czech

1/20/78

5010-110

JJO:j

U) Buy U.S: Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payoil Satings Plan

(5)

NH 54027

DooId: 32304363

Page 2

---

## Page 3

VIRO [05-126727 0/u)

On 10/2/74,

SA JOHN JOSEPH O'CONNOR reviewed

the file pertaining to EDWARD K. MOSS, born 6/23/16, at

Lancaster, Pennsylvania, at the Visa Office, USDS, WDC,

and no additional pertinent information was noted therein

which would supplement that already in possession of the

FBI.

A review of WEO files reveals that EDWARD KIPER

MOSS is identical with Bureau file 121-39985. CSC had

requested the

requested the Bureau to identify e FBI source who had

provided information that one JULIA CELLINI had a business

connection with EDWARD K. MOSS, "reportedly a pervert."

WE 1086-C who provided the above information refused to

consider openly identifying himself or to furnish testi-

mony under any circumstances. WFO recommended that CSC

be advised the identity of source could not be disclosed.

Additional references in WFO files indicate

that MOSS has been registered as Foreign Agent for

foreign countries performing public relations activities.

Since the purpose of the visit to the Czech

Embassy was for purposes of obtaining a visa and

since MOSS would have a legitimate reason for visiting

this embassy, WFO recommends no additional action at this

time. Sinterview of MOSS at this time does not appear (U)

warranted and there is no potential for developing him

as a security informant. > u)

2.

HH 54027

DocId: 32304363

Page 3

---

