# docid-32330065

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90089-10100

HQ

2-1622-67

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BELMONT

TO: PARSONS

TITLE:

DATE: 01/06/1961

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

DocId: 32330065

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

444 U56

2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

mer

Mohr

UNITED STATES GOF

Memorani

Callahar

DeLoac

Malone

• McGuire

Rosen

TO

D. J. Parsons

DATE:

1-6-61

Tamm -

Trotter

W.C. Sul

FROM

A. I. BolmopE

Tele. Rod

Ingram

Gandy

SUBJECT: ROLANDO MASFERRER

• ROJAS

NEUTRALITY ACT - CUBA

sortabie

At 5:40 p.m. 1-6-61 Assistant AG Yeagley called stating he

wanted to bring us up

• to date on developments in this case following

his conversation with the Director yesterday.

Yeagley said that he had talked to Thomas Mann of the State

Department last night.

Mann talked to Acting Secretary of State

Merchant.

State's position was that they still thought it would be

helpful to their situation if Masferrer's activities were stopped.

Therefore, State had no objection to the Department of Justice present-

ing the matter to a grand jury.

Yeagley told Mann that Justice was

not anxious to go ahead and would want a request in writing from the

State Department that to go ahead would be in the national interest.

Yeagley said he had sent a note over to the State Department today

along this line but he thinks that State Department is cooling offand

he doubts that State Department will send over any request this week-

Yeagley said that he had attorneys from the Department of

Justice down in Miami but at this point they do not have authority to

call a grand jury nor to talk to witnesses.

They are not to see the

U.S.

Attorney and they are not to let their presence be known in Miami

except to our office.

We

had previous knowledge they attorneys were going to Miami

and we have already instructed Miami to furnish these attorneys with

any information in this case.

ACTION:

For information.

Yeagley's call merely brings the situation

up to date and requires

astion by the bureau.

2 -

16₴2

AHB: c8% 4

(5)

1

-

Parsons

D JAN 11 196

Belmont

Donahoe

1

- Baumgardner

51 JAN 1 6 1961

EX. - 102

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

COPy TO MR. TOLSON

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

501-144 018 паствам

DocId: 32330065 Page 2

---

