# docid-32296419

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-879

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/23/1964

' PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

MAFIA MEMBERS, CITIZENSHIP, WHEREABOUTS,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

pocId: 32296419

22

Page 1

---

## Page 2

leased uter the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE;

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL-TORM NO. 10,

5010-107

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

DATE: December 23

147964

SAC, DETROIT (92-914)

SUBJECT:

COSA NOSTRA

AR

REVIEWED BY LEI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON 4/14/97 AmL/cal / y

I RELEASE IN FULL

O RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

(00: NEW YORK)

In connection with the top echelon criminal informant

program and the investigation of DE 1027 PC, the following in-

vestigation was conducted by SA BARRON T. CONKLIN.

CODE YSI-C on November 13, 1964, furnished a list of

toll calls of the telephone avenue 4-2803, non-published, which

is located at 1076 Linberg Avenue, in the name of PALAZZOLA, a

relative of DE 1027 PC, who resides at the same address.

tinent telephone calls

were made to CAESER BADALAMENTI

Per-

at. 18860

Santa Marie, Mt. Clemens, a relative Of" ROUGH' EMANUELE

BADALAMENTI

of Monroe, to j. TOCCO, 977 Langlois, Windsor,

Ontario, a brother of

WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO of Detroit,

and a telegram was sent to Italy.

This telegram was sent to ANTONIO VIVIANO, 294 Via

35

Corso, Terrisini, Palermo,

"arrived safely, yours truly,

SALVATORE ALUGIOR ALUIA."

The bill was paid by JIM PALAZZOLA.

ARTHUR LA VERDEIER of the Immigration and Naturali-

zation Service (INS), Detroit, was contacted on December 7,

1964, and asked about SALVATORE ALUGI.

LA VERDEIER stated

that there was no reference to SALVATORE in their files but

he heard about this person when investigating SALVATORE

BARTOLOTTA, who now owns and operates the Frog Leg Inn in Erie,

Michigan, and SAM PALAZZOLA of Monroe, Michigan, believed to

be a brother of"WYANDOTTE" JIM and an uncle of DE 1027 PC.

He stated that in 1963, 'ROUGH' EMANUELE BADALAMENTI

and SAM were both supposed to go to Sicily.

SaM did not go

at the last moment and it is believed that ALUGI visited them

in 1963 or 1964 and,

„then returned to Sicily with" ROUGH' EMANUELE

BADALAMENT I.

ROUGH" EMANUELE BADALAMENTI took a trip to sicily.

- Bureau

(92-6054) (Enc.

Bas4-81

- New York (92-2300) (Info)

5 - Detroit (92-914)

- washinston Pield (19Gia1)

mini - 15-65

to BEG 28 19

08 - 32088

2)

(1 - 92-881) (Enc.

2)

(1 - 92-882)

(Encs.

(10%

965

B

Savings

Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32296419

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Hereased

under The John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 92-914

in the summer of 1964, stayed two months, and returned. The

purpose of the trip was to be married.

LA VERDEIER stated he has done a great deal of

investigation in and around Monroe, Michigan,

in an effort

to determine the present citizenship status of'ROUGH"' EMANUELE

BADALAMENTI, SAM PALAZZOLA, SAM BARTOLOTTA and Wyandotte JIM

PALAZZOLA.

He stated years ago he heard about SALAVATORE

BADALAMENTI had been tried in absentee in Sicily many years

ago, charged with being a member of the Mafia.

He stated

INS was recently able to obtain a transcript of the

trial which took place during 1928 in Palermo.

A translation

of this 28 page document is enclosed. He also furnished a

five page appeal, which is likewise enclosed.

Of those who

were tried in absentee, the following are in this area:

5. ' SALVATORE BARTOLOTTA, SOn Of TOMNASO, from

Cinisi.

This man is identical with SALVATORE

BARTOLOTTA who resides in Erie, Michigan, and

who operates the Frog Leg Inn.

7..

VINCENZO PALAZZOLO, son of ANTONINO, who is

believed to be WYANDOTTE JIM PALAZZOL, father

Of DE 1027 PC, now deceased.

8. SALVATORE PALAZZOLO, son of the deceased

GIUSEPPE from Cinisi, is believed to be the

father of SAM PALAZZOLA, presently living in

Monroe, Michigan, at 440 Riverview. SAI

PALAZZOLA was born July 2, 1904, at Cinisi,

Italy. He was naturalized December 3, 1928.

LA VERDEIER stated that the INS in Washington would

have much more information than he had as to where these 11

persons went.

He stated it is his understanding that ANTONIO

PALAZZOLA, listed as number one, came to the United States,

went to New York or Pennsylvania, and is now dead.

Number

two, GIOVANNI GIUNTA, came to the United States, resided at

either Pennsylvania or California, and is now dead.

=2.

DocId: 32296419 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under "the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hobey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 92-914

gation of FRANK CAMAROTA, a Detroit hoodlum who was deported

and then allegedly entered the country. He stated that while

investigating or trying to locate CAMAROTA, he learned that

FILIPPO MARZELLO was convicted of a bank robbery in Pennsylvania

in which the loot disappeared. Allegedly DOMINIC SCALISI frOm

Cleveland dumped the proceeds of

this bank robbery into the

Jungle Inn in Youngstown, Ohio.

In connection with his investi-

gation of EMANUELE BADALAMENTI, LA VERDEIER stated that

BADALAMENTI mairtains a room at the Town and Country Motel,

just north of Toledo, Ohio.

This motel is owned and operated

by SLICK SHAPERO. He spends considerable time in this room.

In connection with the second enclosure, the appeal

dated August 13, 1927, no specific information is known about

ANTONONIO CALANDRA listed as number one; SALAVATORE GUASTELIA,

number two; SALAVATORE BARTOLOTTA, number three, is believed

to be identical with the SAM BARTOLOTTA presently residing

in Erie, Michigan; and nothing is known' of GIOVANNI PALAZZOLO

listed

as number four.

LEADS

WASHINGTON FIELD

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.

1. Will contact the INS offices and review their

records and determine, if possible,where in the United States

all of these 14 persons immigrated to, and thereafter, set out

leads where determined pertinent to determine their present

activities.

2. Will review the records of INS and of the State

Department to determine if SALVATORE ALUGI or ALUIA from Terrisini,

Palermo, visited in Monroe or Detroit, i located, Will review

If a record of this person can

and

furnish the information to the Detroit Division

for

Detroit

file 137-3688.

- 4 -

DocId: 32296419 Page 4

---

