# docid-32305807

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10288-10437

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2428

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/12/1968

' PAGES :

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, SCIACCA, PAUL, BOSS, NY FAMILY, REL, WEDDING,

NUMEROUS FAMILY BOSSES, ATTENDING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32305807

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

"ReLeased

unter

the John

DATE:

11062017

FBI WASH DC

Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act

05t

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INFTESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION

SEP 1 2 1968 0 /

TELETYPE

Iper

1sh0

Calla

sorr

FBI NEW YORK

2 02 AM

URGENT 9-12-68 JAS

TO DIRECTOR 92-6054, BUFFALO 92-337, NEWARK 92-1203 AND

PHILADELPHIA

92-1027

FROM NEW YORK 92-2300

3 P

Sulliv

MI

Tavel

Mr

Trotter

Tele. Room

Mise Huimes

Mien

Gands

LCN

FOR INFO OF BUREAU AND ALL OFFICES RECEIVING

COPIES OF THIS COMMUNICATION, PAUL SCIACCA, BOSS

NY "FAMILY", HAS A SON WHO IS BEING MARRIED SATURDAY,

SEPTEMBER FOURTEEN, NINETEEN SIXTY-EIGHT, TO THE NIECE

OF FRANKIE TO MARI, "UNDERBOSS", SCIACCA "FAMILY, WITH

RECEPTION BEING HELD AT WOODBURY COUNTRY CLUB, WOODBURY

LI, NY, COMMENCING SIX THIRTY PM, IN WHICH FOUR HUNDRED

PEOPLE ARE EXPECTED, WITH COST OF RECEPTION AT TEN

THOUSAND DOLLARS BEING PAID FOR BY

ANO, AL AS ESO CAL AN A SEE: 92-6054-2428

AGENCIES, ANTICIPATE REPRESENTATIVE AITENDANCE BY "BOSSES

AND HIGH-RANKING "FAMILIES" MEMBERS OF ALL "FAMILIES" TO BE

IN ATTENDANCE. NYO ANTICIPATES ATTENDANCE OF CARLO

END PAGE ONE

17 0CT 2 1968

26

DocId: 32305807 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USt 21U7 Metey:

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

GAMBINO, JOE COLOMBO, AND REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GENOVESE

AND LUCHESE "FAMILIES". ALSO, REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE

BUFFALO, PHILADELPHIA AND NEWARK "FAMILIES" OF LON ARE

EXPECTED TO BE IN ATTENDANCE.

THE PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF THE WOODBURY COUNIRY

CLUB DOES NOT LEND IISELF TO APPROPRIATE PHOTO OR CONCEALED

ON-THE-SPOT COVERAGE.. ALL NYC LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES,

NAMELY CIB, NYCPD, NASSAU COUNTY PD, SUFFOLK COUNTY PD.

AND NY STATE POLICE PLAN ON-THE-SPOT PERSONAL OBSERVATION

AND COVERAGE THAT IS FEASIBLE..

INQUIRY AT THE WOODBURY COUNTRY CLUB BY NYO

REFLECIS WOODBURY COUNTRY CLUB IS IWO-STORY BUILDING,

LOCATED IN ISOLATED AREA, AND THAI THE FULL FACILITIES OF

THIS CLUB BEING UTILIZED BY RECEPTION PARTY. NYO ALSO

INTENDS TO PERSONALLY OBSERVE AND COVER THE WEDDING

RECEPTION IN EFFORT TO EFFECT PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION OF

THOSE IN ATTENDANCE. ALSO AT THIS TIME NYO ANTICIPATES

ATTENDANCE OF NY FOUR THREE THREE SIX DASH C DASH TE, WHO

END PAGE TWO

Ber

tel call Sup. Doffin,

912/48 pepp

restrictal to

MD sell

BIS

70

DocId: 32305807 Page 3

---

