# docid-32273743

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9/22/201

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 181-10002-10131

RECORD SERIES :

NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE CASE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : SSCSGO

FROM:

SCHWARZ, FREDERICK A. O. JR.

TO: RHOADS, JAMES B.

TITLE :

DATE :

07/02/1973

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 54545 Date:

10-12-2017

ACCESS TO KENNEDY LIBRARY MATERIALS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/13/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

w9.1

HW 54545

DooId: 32273743 Page 1

66

---

## Page 2

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

* GARY HART, COLO.

United States Senate

STUDY GOVERNMENTAM OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, 84TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

July 2, 1975

Received NA-N

JUL Z 1975)

DI. James B. Rhoads

Archivist of the United States

National Archives and Records Services

Eighth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.

Washington, D.C. 20408

Dear Dr. Rhoads:

The Select Committee in its investigation of the question

of possible U.S. involvement in the assassination of foreign

leaders also requests access for Mr. Michael Madigan (TS/SI/TK/B)

at the Kennedy Library.

This is in

to the individuals

mentioned in my June 30 letter

Sincerely,

Frederick A.0. Schwarz, Jr.

cc:

The Hon. James A. Wilderotter

Associate Counsel to the President

HH 54545

DocId: 32273743

Page 2

---

