# docid-32329046

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/30/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90084-10027

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-183815-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

HQ

DATE: : 11/04/1968

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA

LAUREANO FERNANDO BATISTA Y FALLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

y9.1

DocId: 32329046

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Cortection All u 1552 (11 150 2117106e).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

1

Liaison

1 - Mr. Nasca

'SECRET

REE A9100 185115.4

RE: LAURIANO FERNANDO BATISTA Y FALLA

AND WIFE

November 4, 1968

15910

Reference is made to your communication dated

October 2, 1968, your reference Z/B'68, in which you called

attention

to information previously furnished to you which

indicated that Laureano Batista had

been spotted off Racoon

Cay, Bahamas, on January 20, 1964, as a result of which the

British frigate H.M.S. Londonderry had been sent to intercept

You requested

advice as to whether additional details

of this incident were available. (5)

You also requested authorization, in the event a

record of this incident is not located in Bahamian files, to

use information we provided to warn the subjects that their

involvement in anti-Castro activities is known to the authorities

and that they must not engage in such activitios while they

are in the Bahamas.

(u)

Attached is

a copy of a memorandum dated October 14,

1968, which concerns the incident involving Laureano Batista

off Racoon Cay.

Authority is granted for you or the Bahamian Police

to use the attached information and the previous data furnished

you without naming us as the source to warn the subjects as

requested in the event data concerning this incident is not

located in Bahamian records. In the event such use is made

of our data it would be appreciated if we could be advised. RU

Enclosure

'oreign Liaison Unit

Sent tyRfs (5-152114168 he

Delivered to the washington Representative of MI-S on 11/4/687(5)

105-183815

1 - 100-769

(MI-5)(5)

VHN; sed/

(8)

SPSMACKSE

Classified by

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

CONFIDENITAL INORMATION CONTAINED

FD 6.4 UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEFT VEINE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

DING

3.10.

ĐNGA

SECRET

DocId: 32329046 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Node).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RE: LAUREANO FERNANDO BATISTA Y FALLA

AND WIFE

SECRET

NOTE :

Subjects are husband and wife who reside in Florida.

They have made visa application to visit the Bahamas. Laureano

Batista has long been.

involved in anti-Castro activities and

the information we furnished was a detailed account of such

involvement.

The information dealing with the incident as well

as previous data which is of interest to MI-5 was discussed

with Coast Guard and Customs in Miami which provided much of

the data and they saw no reason why it could not be.

MI-5 or Bahamian Police for Interview with subjects (5)

used by

Classified "Confidential" since memorandum

contains

information so classified by MI-5 (5 )

SECRET

DocId: 32329046

Page 3

---

