# docid-32300056

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act "of" 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10226-10336

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-238

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/29/1961

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32300056

389

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releasen inder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: II-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU Di NESTiCATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS

SECTION

MAY 3,0 1961

ETYPE

Drew

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mir. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.. allivan

Tele. Roor.

Mr. Ingram.

Miss Gandy

URGENT

5-29-51

11-19 PM DFS

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-3171/

FROM SAC, CHICAGO / 92-349/ 2P

SAMUEL MA. GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY

DUANE SEAVEY, FORMER PCI THIS OFFICE, RECENTLY

ADVISED THAT HE HAD

RUN UP A GAMBLING DEBT IN THE PAST AT THE LUMBER GARDENS, MELROSE

PARK, WELL KNOWN GAMBLING OPERATION CONTROLLED FOR GIANCANA BY SAM

BATTAGLIA AND ROCCO DE GRAZIO. DEBT AMOUNTED TO THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS,

WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TO PAY OFF THROUGH JUICE MAN PAREN SHYLOCKER

ENPAREN. INTEREST ON DEBT ROSE TO THE POINT WHERE SEAVEY, A BUSINESS

MAN, WAS FORCED TO GO INTO BANKRUPTCY IN FEDERAL DISTRICT COURT, CHICAGO

ONE OF HIS DEBTS RECORDED AS ABOVE GAMBLING DEBT. HE WAS DISCHARGED

IN BANKRUPTCY NOV., NINE, FIFTY EIGHT. IN APRIL, SIXTY ONE, HE

WAS CONTACTED TELEPHONICALLY AND TOLD TO PROCEED TO THE RESIDENCE

OF GIANCANA, OAK PARK, WHICH HE DID. HE WAS TOLD AT THAT TIME

BY GIANCANA THAT REPAYMENT OF THE OLD GAMBLING DEBT WAS EXPECTED

REGARDLESS OF ACTION OF BANKRUPTCY COURT. GIANCANA ORDERED SEAVE

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTARED

2 31745:23

GATE SOON BY SERE/COL

E JUN I. "1961

DooId: 32300056 Page 2

---

