# docid-32304596

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10286-10226

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-110055-4X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/12/1962

3

ELC, MIL, MMR, ACA, ASSOC, BKG, DESCR, COMMUNIST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

. DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC S/S

v9.1

NW 45774 DocId: 32304596

Page 1

16

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL CORM ED, 1O

UNITED STATES G

Memoranaum

CON

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

6/12/62

FROM

SAC, TAMPA (105-New) (RUC) DECLASSIFIED BY SPS MAC EN

ON 40-11-94

SUBJECT:

ALIANZA REVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR

ANTI-COMUNISTAC(Revolutionary

Anti-Communist Military AlTiance)

C(ARMA)

IS - CUBA

TON CONTAI

CLASSIFIED

AAL, INFORMAT

WHERE SHOWN

HEREIN IS

EXCEPT

OTHER ISE

Re San Juan airtel to Bureau 4/27/62 captioned

"ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES; IS - CUBA;" San Juan airtel

to Bureau 5/7/62 captioned "ALIANZA REVOLUCIONARIA MILITAR

ANTI-COMUNISTA (Revolutionary Anti-Communist Military. Alliance)

(ARMA); IS - CUBA;" and letterhead memorandum enclosed there- .

with under same date and caption; San Juan letter to Bureau

5/17/62 capti oned as above.

Referenced communications contain data given by

San Juan PSI (UD).|

to the

Ilect that he had

been contacted by one Lt. MACEO, who wished

to provide names of Cuban exiles ready to light agains

CASTRO.

as official of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionaria (MRR), has list of such persons, but has

not yet provided it. to MACEO, according to referenced letter.

On Page 3 of referenced airtel of 4/27/62, and Page 3

of referenced letterhead memorandum of 5/17/62, one NAPOLEON

DAI

on:

BAKER is mentioned as being the organizer of activities in

the Tampa area.

BAKER and the other mentioned leaders are

said to be all close former associates of HUBERT MATOS.

Tampa

believes the true name of

the individual!

listed as the Tampa leader to be NAPOLEONBECQUER. Nothing

has come to the attention of the Tampa Office indicating

any activities on the part of BECQUER.

-8. APPROX. / 932.

MONKET: 20

On 11/28/61 Mr. MANUEL CRUZ, 1011 Braddock St.,

Tampa, advised that NAPOLEON BECQUER was formerly a captain

in the revolutionary forces of CASTRO and the aide of HUBERT

MATOS. At the time CASTRo arrested Malos, BECau was aLso eX

105-110055-

Bureau (RM)

- Miami (Info) (RM)

1

REC-37/05-1072

- New York (Info)

(RM)

1

- WFO (Info) (RM)

1 - San Juan (105-6043)

(RM)

25 JUN 1.3 1962

3 - Татра (1 - 105-965) (-105-1121)

PGD : ew

(8)

14

TAM

5

4 JUN 26 1962

NW 45774 DocId: 32304596 Pagé 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

CONFIDE

TAL

TP 105-1121

arrested and was a prisoner in La Cabana. He is supposed

to have escaped somehow

to Miami and later came to Tampa,

where he distributed "Bohemia Libre," for an income of

$10.00 per week. Also he and his wife work for a cleaning

service at nights, cleaning offices. He is not known to have

taken any part in

part in activities

A loanine 6110 4.

• activities pro- or anti-CASTRO. CRUZ

stated that he had been told

' by a Dr. PEREZ NUNEZ, who works

in the County Hospital, Tampa, that MATOS was known to him

as a communist, and he

suspects that BECQUER is also a

communist since he was MATOS' right-hand man. NUNEZ was

formerly an army doctor in Cuba with rank of lieutenant

and was stationed in Camaguey, where he knew Major HUBERT

MATOS very well. BECQUER is described as 30 years of age,

very short, 130 lbs., dark skin.

On 1/4/62 TP 52-s. advised that NAPOLEON BEQUER

lives at the Ponce de Leon Housing Project, street unknown..

He does not belong to any anti-CASTRO group in Tampa at

this time. He is a former aide to. Major HUMBERTO MATOS and

is one of 14 individuals who escaped from the Isle of Pines,

where they were incarcerated. He states he is anti-communist

and anti-CASTRO, but nothing else is known of his background.

On 1/5/62 PSI JOSE ENRIQUE RAMIREZ RAWa that

BECQUER lives in the:Ponce de Leon Housing Project, is anti-

CASTRO and anti-communist, as far as can be determined.

was formerly aide to Major HUMBERTO MATOS and reportedly

escaped from the Isle of Pines Prison before coming to the

United States.

RAMIREZ stated it is not known if he is

formally affiliated with any anti-CASTRO group in the Tampa

It is believed that the above data support the

conclusion that BECQUER is identical to the individual referred

to in referenced communications.

The above is being sub-

mitted for the information of all offices receiving copies

of referenced communications.

2 -

NW 45774

DocId: 32304596

Pagé 3

---

