# docid-32404197

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10331-10067

RECORD SERIES : JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

66-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DAVID D. GRIES

TO :

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TITLE

MEMO: JEK ASSASSINATION RECORDS; PROPOSAL FOR

DISCUSSION

DATE

:06/22/1993

PAGES

:

3

SUBJECTS : AGENDA

JEK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

SECRET

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

04/30/03

JFK-M-16: F2: 2000.02.08.12:13:06:200054

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10067

53217

DocId: 32404197

Page

---

## Page 2

SECRET

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

CSI-0308/93

22 June 1993

NOTE FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT:

JFK Assassination Records;

Proposal for Discussion

Jaw

We have had an exchange of memoranda on the release of

certain categories of information from the JFK assassination

files.

But a small number of lesser items remain unsettled.

I suggest that we meet for a few minutes to discuss these

items in light of the requirements of the JFK Assassination

Act.

Attached is a short list of proposed agenda items for

our discussion.

David D. Gries

Attachment

UNCLASSIFIED WHEN SEPARATED

FROM ATTACHMENT

CL BY

DECL

DR FR

0188893

OADR

MET 31-87

SECRET

NW 53217 DocId:32404197 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-SECRET

AGENDA

(For discussion with DDO regarding release of information

from JFK assassination records.)

1. Dispatch numbers.

2. File numbers, including 201 numbers.

3. Cryptonyms no longer in use, particularly the AM

series which have

all been changed to SL.

AMMUG, and others in this grouping have been released

to the public.) Also organizational crypts no longer

in use, particularly for the FBI.

4. Organization designations down through the branch

level for the period of the House Assassination

Committee investigation (to 1978) •

5. Source descriptions on disseminated reports.

6. Pseudonyms of retired employees or former employees

who are deceased.

HH 53217

DocId: 32404197

Page

3

---

## Page 4

"SECRET

SUBJECT:

JFK Assassination Records; Proposal for Discussion

DCI /CSI/DDGries:hfs/30335

Distribution:

original -

Addressee

1

D/CSI

(22 Jun 93)

-SECRET

53217

Doc1d:32404197

Page 4

---

