# docid-32285912

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10188

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-591

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/13/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, ASSOC, GAMBLING, DESTRUCTION, VISITORS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/15/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32285912

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107-

Hot@b-36 (M4TF2111011-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

10/13/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI

(92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MM 833 PCI advised on 10/10/62, that JOSEPH

INDELICATO (Miami file 92-404) had four visitors athis

residence on that afternoon.

From automobile license

numbers and descriptions furnished by informant, it appears

that these visitors were MILTON and EDWARD SEINFELD, owners

of the Admiral Vee Motel; MARIO TALUCCI, maitre de at the

Embers Restaurant, Miami Beach, Fla., and an unknown male.

p56762-9-29-591

The Miami Herald Newspaper of 10/11/62, reported

that on 10/10/62, Circuit Judge PAT CANNON, at Miami, threw

out the only conviction ever secured against ELUM CAUDELL

(Miami file 165-6) in 19 trials on charges relating to

bookmaking. CAUDELL drew a 1 year sentence 9/18/61, for

malicious destruction of telephone equipment. A jury found

him guilty of cutting wires leading to three bookie telephones

as law enforcement officers broke into a store room at 9435

N. W. 17th Avenue, on 12/14/60. According to the news

article, Judge CANNON ruled that Criminal Court Judge JACK

FALK should not have permitted the jury to hear the testimony

of a state attorney's investigator ED MC COLLUM. CANNON,

according, to the newspaper, said MC COLLUM's testimony that

he had arrested CAUDELL five times in cases where phone

assistine

Bureau (AM):

2 - Miami

Spoil Agen: in fittite

sent

_ M

W1 OCT 16 1962

Per -

DocId: 32285912 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USt 2107

Motel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

....

MM 92-515

equipment was damaged, was irrelevant.

CANNON said

CCAUDELL should have a new trial.

MM 509-C on 10/2/62, advised that the chief

dispenser of football parlay

MILTON SPITZER; that SPITZER has JACK RAMOS handling the

hat sparasy cards

cards at Miami Beach is

cards at Alfie's Sundry Stores; JOE ZABLO is distributing

them out of George's Newstand, Miami Beach, and that he

has as other distribution points, the Plaza Hotel, Miamijed

Fla., where sizable poker games are being operated and at

BEN HUSICK'S (Miami file 162-80) South Beach Democratic

Club, Miami Beach, (Miami file 165-177)

This source advised that JERRY FISHMAN (Miami file

166-43) and an employee of HYMAN MARTIN (Miami file 92-218)

is now frequenting the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, where

he plays a card game called "Million", with JIMMY COPPOLA,

brother of MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami file 92-101).

In addition this source advised that JERRY ZAROWITZ

(Miami file 165-75) returned to Miami from the Lake Tahoe,

California, area and is again betting heavily on sports.

MM 509-C advised further that a great deal of

remodeling is going on at the old La Scala Restaurant, Dade

county, Fla., and that JAMES PALMAISANO (Miami file 92-503)

got hot it so

Red aure 52-30g

and ANTHONY RANDAZZO (Miami file 92-403) are 2 of the principals

who are going to reopen the place, which they hope to also

use as a center for gambling and bookmaking operation.

2.

'DocId: 32285912 Page 3

---

