# docid-32401389

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/99

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

Released under the John

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10310-10001

F. Kennedy

RECORD SERIES

: JFK-MISC

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CIA-DDP FILES

CIA DDP PILES

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

- -

144 USC 2107 Notel.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Case#:NU 53320 Date:

06-24-2017

CIA

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO :

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

:

SUBJECTS

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

:

:

WITHHELD

01/14/61

7

ASCHAM

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

09/21/98

JFK-M-07:F1 1998.09.21.08:25:56:936120: ARRB REQUEST:

CIA-IR-34.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53320

DocId: 32401389

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFIDENT L

-JF

To...

41-769

00.6

POOUMENTIO

1O CHANGE IN OLASS

= CECLASAFIEO

CLAGS. ClintiGED TO:

1770-2

190.

E:25 AW

Macting

Date: 14 January 1961

1000 - 1200 hours

Place: LITENSOR's Residence

ACC-S

Persons Present: ASCHAM, LITENSOR

and CURTIS (as interpreter)

LITENSOR stated that he had been looking forward to meeting ASCHAM

for many months. He then said he would bave known ASCHAM (in any

place they might have met) to be relaied to his brother because of their

phyaical resemblance. He talked of his two hour meeting with ASCHAM'B

brother la December 1958; he said he found ASCHAM's brother to be

exactly the opposite of the way he was depicted in newspapers. ASCHAM's

brother had an excellent sense of humor; they had several good jokes during

the two hour conversation. LITENSOR said he knew in December 1958 that

ASCHAM's brother was a very sick man.

LITENSOR, also said he had kRoWa ASCHAM's nephew well for a five-

year period when LITENSOR handled labor. He said this young man was

so modest that he (LITENSOR) had not realized until after the five years

that he was the son of ASCHAM & brother. He found ASCHAM's nephew

discreet, intelligent and an honest person whom he (LITENSOF.) enjoyed

dealing with.

ASCHAM told LITENSOR that he too had looked forward for many

months to this meeting. ASCHAM said he bad anticipated having a dis-

cussion of mutual problems with LITENSOR

Subjects discussed were:

A. Cuba

ASCHAM said Cuba, which is now definitely Communist, is

a problem for all Latin America as well as for the U.S.A. He said

me in the U.S. Government are anxious to got the opinions of

Latin American Goveraments concerning possible solutions to the

Cuban problera--and we would hope that a majority of Latin American

countries would join us is solving this problem.

LITENSOF, said Cuba wad not just a hemispheric problem but

was a world problem.

CONELDENILAI

HH 53320

DooId:32401389 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONF IDENTIAT

ASCHAM expressed doubt about the wisdom of bringing

European countries into this Westera Hemisphere problem;

and with this make it very difficult to deny that Russia, Com-

munist China and Crechoslovakia had rights to help solve this

Cuban problem. LITENSOR then backed off his point and agreed

that Europe should not be brought in. He said Mexico from events

of the nineteenth century has very good historical reasons for

wishing to keep Europe out of Lstin Americas internal (to the

Westera hemisphere) problema.

LITENSOR said Mexico had a strict palicy based upon a

principle which forbade their interference in the internal affairs

of any other country. For this reapon he hoped the Cabans could

get rid of CASTRO and Communism and sottle their probleme

themselves.

ASCHAM said that with CASTRO's dictatorship and the

Soviets, Communist Chinese and Czechoalovakians help it would

be very hard for the Cuban people to establish a good goverament.

LITENSOR said he would like to know the truth about the

feelings of the (majority of) Cuban people on the subjects of CASTRO

and Communism. He added that he did not feel the Cuban people

were people who could endure hardships and be disciplined as could

the Chinese. He said Mexicans could live ten years off herbs and

still fight for thoir revolution--but he belleves the Cuban people

lack fiber of this kind. He said he believed that whether or not

CASTRO lasts for three years more will depond upon whether or

not Cubans get sufficient food. He believes this constant parading

by the Cuban militia and these expressions of fear of an invasion

by the U.S. A. are Crasy.

ASCHAM told him that these militia had to work during the day

and parade at right; as a result the work is certain to suffer, these

workers will be too tired to do much.

LITENSOR said the U.S.A. could look upos the Cuban Cam-

munist problem as ono of an "international character" since there

was absolutely no chance of Castroism having any real internal

effect in the U.S. A. and its government. He said Mexico, on the

CONELDCNTLAY

NW 53320 DocId: 32401389 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CONF

IDENTIAL

other hand, and he (LITENSOR.) had to connider the possibility

of internal security problems in Mexico because of Castroism.

LITENSOR sald there la a largo body al aympathy for CASTRO

and hia Revalution in Mexico.

LITENSOR said this factor (d Mexican sympathy for CASTRO)

had to be weighed by LITENSOR. in all actions concerning Cuba.

For this reason, he added, no overt action to overthrow CASTRO

could be taken by. Mexico. He said he personally wanted to get rid

of CASTRO and to hare Cuba become a democracy; he offered to

consider any recommended action by Mexico which ASCHAM wanted.

He said that if ASCHAM would send CURTIS any such recommenda-

tion he and CURIIS would "analyze" it and he (LITENSOR) would

then determine whether or not he could take the action. He said

there are many things we should be able to do "baneath the table".

ASCHAM agreed.

LITENSOF: said that he personally was surprised when CASIRO

adopted Communism. He sald that when CASTRO was in Mexico

he did not agroe with Communiam; LITENSOR said he knew this

from several reliable Mexicans who knew CASTRO at this time.

ASCHAM said there was no doubt not but that Cuba was la the hande

of the Communiets.

LITENSOR sald he attribated the failure of the Cuban Revolu-

tion to achieve its original (worthy) objectives to the youth,

inexperience and lack of ability of leaders--including CASTRO.

ASCHAM said that CASTRO is not content to have Communism

in Caba; he lo ambitious; he wishes to spread hia philosophy to

other Latin American countries. ASCHAM spoke of the precarious

position of Venezuela and said that Peru, Colombia and some other

Jestio American countries were having troubles as well.

LITENSOR said that in many Latin American countries the

Communists and CASTRO find fertile ground for their subversion

because the land in some of these countries the did not speclly

any country) is held by a very few individuals while the masses

live lives of misery and have no hopes under the present systeras.

CONSIDENTLAL

H9 53320 Do01d:32401389 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

He said that in Venezuela the problem in different; there the

"fertile soil"' for Communist subversion la found in Caracas in

the large number of unemployed. LITENSOR, said that Mexico

because of the succoss of her revolution and because of the

agraTian reforM program which has been carried out could

resiat Communiem. He added that there were some thirty (leading)

Communists whose names and sayings appear over and over again

and who hope to establish Communism there but he indicated that

they would not succeed.

LITENSOR then named some Communist leaders he now har

1a Jall: He named Demetrio VALLEJO, Dionisio ENCINA,

Valentin CAMPA, David ALFARO Siqueiros, and others. He said

ho felt sure that the great majority of Mexicans are in favor of

his jailing these Communist leaders.

ASCHAM said President BETANCOURT Was & Capable man

but Venezuela was in a dangerous position. LITENSOR agreed

that BETANCOURT was "un hombre muy capas"-- but said BETAN-

COURT was in great difficulty.

LITENSOR. said that Latin America's great need was for

long term, low interest loans for social development and housing.

ASCHAM told. LITENSUR that private enterprise in the U.S.A.

had become frightened or concerned by the loss of near one billion

dollars (which they would probably never recover) in Cuba. ASCHAM

also said that, speaking frankly, U.S. businessmen had become

wasy over certain atatemente and actions even in Mexico.

LITENSOR said his remark of 1960 that the Mexican Govers-

ment was "of the extrome left within the Constitation" had been mis-

ropresented by the press. He said thay had frequently left out

"within the Constitution"' and had made it appear that he had meant

merely "of the extreme left"' and, hence, Communistically inclined.

LITENSOR himself brought up the Latin American Peace Con-

gress which is to be hold in Mexico City in March 1961. He said

the Communists have chosen (for them) a very propitious time to

have this Congress la Moxico. He said: The railway workers'

COMEIDENTIAL

HW 53320

Doold:32401389 Page

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIA

unias in Moxico will bo re-negotiating a contract (and he did not

add Demotrio VALLEJO Martines, their Communist leader, l8

da jall); the professional schools in Maxico will be opening a new

terra; a new Rector will just bave been chosen for the Natlonal

(Autonomous) University of Mexico (and ho did not add that tha

Communists will either have had a mas acceptable to them chosen

or will be causing troubles over whomever else la selected).

ASCHAM asked way LITENSOR could not preventtals

Latin American Peace Congress being hold in Mexico. LITENSOR

said that ho could not prevent its being hold because of guarantees

al the Mexican Constitution. (He falled to mention not giving visas

to foreign Communisto), LITENSOR said ho preferred to bavo tho

Congress held in Mexico to having it held in certais other Latia

Americas countrles. He sald "we have better facilities for

coverage and control" in Maxico.

LITENSUR sald the Congress would be unpleasant for him

personally because he would be vigoroualy attacked on the subject

of palitical prisoners. He added that, despita the high-sounding

and noble cause of peace which this Congress would pretend to

advocate, it was a Communist tool. He said the high-sounding

"Peace" objectives had caused a number of well-mearing son-

Communists to get themselves invalved in the World Peace Council.

At ASCHAM's suggestion, LITENSOR agreed to assist in

whatever he possibly could to disrupt and hamper this Peace Congress.

ASCHAM sald we (KUBARK) would send some ideas and suggestions

an actions which might be taken to diarapt this Congress. ASCHAM

talé: LITENSOR that our new Government in Washington and U. S.

Businessmen would find it hard to understand why Medco could

allow these Communiots to assemble in Mexico and attack the U.S. A.

LITENSUR said he understood this; bus reiterated that Can-

atitational guarantees of free speech and freedom of thought made it

impossible to prevent this meeting.

LITENSOR told ASCHAM, that he had complete confidence in

LIERGO and LIELEGANT and that they too would help in any way.

they could (along with him) in the fight against Communism.

5

CONELOKNELAL

NH 53320 DocId: 32401389 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

LITENSOR said that he would give CURTIS all information

Mexico had on Communism. He said he wished CURTIS to send

ASCHAM all information avallable la Mexico on subversion. He

said that he was very happy with the present arrangements

whore we have complete exchange of iaformation between himself

and ASCHAM's orgarizatioa.

Both LITENSOR and ASCHAM expressed confidence in

having CURIIS as the channel between them.

Finally, LITENSOE, said ho wlahed ASCHAM to know that

ho was "with us". He said thero is a Mexican saying: "Each

person has his own method of killing fleas, " and said that some-

times his method of "Killing flead" salght bo different from that

which we would use.

ASCHAM said "Just so we both kill them!"

LITENSOR. then said he had asked the Mexican Ambassador in

Washington to tell Secretary Herter, and he would like ASCHAM

to do the same, that although at times Mexico took a different road

from that taken by the U.S. A, the sim was to arrive at the same

place (in this light agalast Communism).

LITENSOR: was well pleased with the model piatol given to

him by ASCHAM. He called it "Preciosa" and said he had a "passion

for flrearms". He said it trould occupy the principal spot in bie

collection.

CON

53320

DooId: 32401389

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

Summary

It la belleved that the following represent the main achlevements of this

meettag:

a) LITENSOR attained his objective of meeting ASCHAM

and he hopes he has now "a friend in court" la high U. S.

government circles.

b) LITENSOR promised to consider (analyze with CURTIS)

any proposal for Mexico by ASCHAM and to do whatever he

could.

C) LITENSOR explatued that his actlons agalnst Communtsm

and in conjunction with the USA would be llmited to things he

could do covertly.

d) From the Mexloo City Stattou point of view ASCHAM'S

visit, bls conversations with LITENSOR, LIERGO, LIENVOY/1

and LIELEGANT added to the stature of the Station more la

this two day perlod than the Station could ever have achieved

Widout ASCHAN'S personal help.

CONFIDENTIAL

HH 53320

DocId: 32401389

Page 8

---

