# docid-32318030

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10356-10207

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

72-2382-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG.

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/08/1979

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32318030 Page 1

86

---

## Page 2

86 HO

uner-the John F. Kennety Assassination Recorus

F 17-14-2017

MM

Irection hot of T992 744 USe 2107

DE CO

0818537

JUN 79

CHICAGO (166-2615) (P) (SQUAD 18)

10 DIRECTOR (166-7268) PRIORITY

LAS VEGAS (183-148) PRIORITY

MIAMI PRIORITY

8 Jun: 79

PUCERSI

TOMFAU

OF IMSSTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Assoc. Mir.

Cop. AD Adm.

Dug AD law

Assi!. Dir:

Are out?

Ident.

Intel!

Lato story

Flin: 4 lnsp

Rec. Mont.

Tor Gorys

Training

Public Affs. Off.

Telert One Rm.

Directo:'s Sec'y

UNG AS IN

ATTENTION: SECTION CHIEF ED SHARP.

=NI HONY JOHN SPILOTRO, AKA; ET AL; RICO, 00: LAS VEGAS

RE LAS VEGAS TELETYPES IO BUREAU, JUNE 5, AND JUNE 6,

1979.

BROSKIL

ON JUNE 7, 1979, CG 8534-TE ADVISED THAT HE HAD A

CONVERSATION IN CHICAGO WITH FRANK SCHWEIHS, A REPUTED

"HIT MAN", RESIDING IN THE MIAMI, FLORIDA AREA AND THE

FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS DEVELOPED.

THE SOURCE SAID SCHWEIHS WAS ASKED WHAT HE THOUGHT

ABOUT SPILOTRO'S SITUATION, AND THAT AN. LNDERCOVER FBI

AGENT HAD INFILIRATED SPILOTRO'S INNER CIRCLE OF ASSOCIATES

22-2382-

NOT RECORDED

14 JUN 2091979

1979

20

8.7.

ORIGINAL FILED IN

166-

7268 256

1P107257188

6JUL 111979

119218030

---

## Page 3

BATE: 11-14-2017

eased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107210

PAGE TWO

•EG. 166-2615

UNCLAS

IN LAS VEGAS. HE SAID SCHWEIHS TOLD HIM THE CHICAGO

"OUTFIT", PARTICULARLY JOE AIUPPA, THE TOP MAN OF THE CHICAGO

"OUTFIT", WAS UPSET OVER THE WAY SPILOTRO HAD HANDLED THE

LAS VEGAS SITUATION. HE SAID SCHWEIHS TOLD HIM SPILOIRO HAS

BEEN ORDERED BACK TO CHICAGO, TO TAKE OVER THE TERRITORY.

'FORMERLY CONIROLLED BY TURK TORELLO, NOW DECEASED. HE SAID

SCHWEIHS TOLD HIM THAT THEY WANTED SPILOTRO BACK HERE TO

WAICH HIM, AND ALSO TO REPLACE HIM IN LAS VEGAS •

HE SAID SCHWEIHS ALSO SAID THAT THE CHICAGO "OUTFIT"

WOULD NEVER AUTHORIZE A "HIT" ON AN FBI AGENT, TO HELP

SPILOTRO GET OUT OF HIS CURRENT PROBLEMS. HE SAID SCHWEIHS

TOLD HIM SPILOIRO IS NOT THAT HIGH UP IN. THE CHICAGO

"OUTFIT", AND IS CONSIDERED EXPENDABLE. HE SAID SCHWEIHS

INFORMED HIM IF SPILOTRO TOOK A "HIT" CONTRACT UPON HIMSELF

AND DID IN FACT KILL AN AGENT, HE (SPILOTROS WOULD BE KILLED

BY THE CHICAGO "OUTFIT", BECAUSE OF THE "HEAT" THAT WOULD

BE GENERATED. BY THE FBI IN CHICAGO AND LAS VEGAS.

FOR THE INFORMATION OF LAS VEGAS, SCHWEIHS WAS CONTACTED

DUE TO THE FACT HE IS ONE OF THE FEW PEOPLE KNOWN TO THE

CHICAGO FBI THAT WOULD UNDERIAKE A CONTRACT TO KILL AN

203

Page

---

## Page 4

eased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Fo

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

CG

166-2615

UNCL AS

FBI AGENT •

FOR THE INFORMATION OF MIAMI, SCHWEIHS STATED HE IS

PLANNING ON STAYING IN CHICAGO FOR THE SUMMER, AND IS

HAVING HIS VEHICLE DRIVEN UP TO CHICAGO FROM FLORIDA.

FOR THE INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU AND RECEIVING OFFICES,

THE

ABOVE INFORMATION IS EXTREMELY SENSITIVE IN NATURE,

AND WAS GIVEN TO SOURCE ON A ONE-TO-ONE BASIS:

CHICAGO WILL HAVE SOURCE MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH

SCHWEINS; AND REMAIN ALERT TO ANY INFORMATION SIMILAR TO THE

ABOVE •

-BT

---

