# docid-32331312

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90096-10258

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-155

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: RO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/30/1962

2

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

v9.1

Docid: 32331312 Page 1

51

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records collection Aot of 1992 714 05c 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

UN TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

-WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

November 30, 1962

CHARLES

TOURINE

DECLACRFIED BY

ON .4.0/6/95

CHARLES TOURINE

(ai)

MARIO FORTINI was born in Nice,

France, on January 1, 1932.

He has a resi

dence at Via Fabiola 9, Rome, Italy, but he

actually resides at 79 Rue de Geneve, Lausanne,

Switzerland,

He married the former PATRICIA

MuT at a ceremony which took place in Dayton,

Ohio.

According to members of FORTINI'S

family, he is an electrical engineer who did not

obtain his degree in Rome.

(Ne)

The following relatives of FOR-

TINI reside at Via Fabiola 9:

Father - SILVIO FORTINI, born May 14, 1897;

Ariccia, Italy, and employed with the

Defense Ministry;

ador

Mother - CARLOTTA PACIUCCI FORTINI, born in

Ariccia, October 13, 1895;

sister - GIULIANA MARIANI, born January 23, 1922,

and married to VINICIO MARIANI, employed

with

the telephone company.

MAS

FORTINI's brother, MARCELLO, was

born in Ariccia, Italy, on June 11, 1920.

He e

married to CLOTILDE RAYMOND and they reside in France.

FORTINI's sister, CATERINA, born October 12, 1923, is

COPTES postaorgany and they reside in Americe.

married to an American employed with an aviation com-

(ne)

FORTINI's family ehjoys a good

3.

MAY 23 IZion and none of them has any criminal record.

reputa

22989-155

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32331312

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the Tohn

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aèt of 1992 (41 USC 2T07 Föte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNZIED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

November 30, 1962

CHARLES TOURINE

DECLASSINED BY SO A

0N66.94..

The following Information was fur

2 VA

BIVO

CHARLES TOURINE:

MARLO FORtIL waS born in tice,

France,

on January , 1932,

He has a res1-

dence at Vla Fabiola 9, Rome, Italy, but he

actually resides at 79 Rue de Geneve, Lausanne,

Switzerland.

He married the former PATRICIA

MUT at a ceremony which took place in Dayton,

Ohio.

According to members of FORTINI'S

fandly, he is an electrical engineer who did not

obtain

his degree in Rome.

The following relatives of FOR-

TIVI reside at Via Fabiola 9:

Cate gest

Father - SILVIO FORTINI, born Mey 14, 1897,

Ariecia, Italy, and employed with the

Defense Ministry;

Mother - CARLOTTA FACIUCCI FORTINI, bor in

ARLeela; October 13, 1895)

Franciliam

Sister - GIULIANA MÁRIANI, born January 23, 1922,

and married to VINICIO MARIANI, employed

with the telephone company.

born in Ariecia, Italy, on June 11, 1920.

PORTINI's brother MARCELO, eas

married

to CLOTILDE RAYNOND and they reside in France.

FORTINI's sister, CATERINA, born October 12, 1923, 18

married to an American employed with an aviation com

pany and they reside in America.

92-2989-155

FORTINI's family enjoys a good reputa-

tion and none of them has any criminal record.;

ir.

DocId:32331312 Page 3

---

