# docid-32335778

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90129-10169

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1280-159

Released under the John

?. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection ict of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE:

12/04/1964

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

MINUTEMEN

• DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32335778

Page

1

7

---

## Page 2

FD-38 (Rov. 12-19-58)

a..?

FBI

Dater 17/4/64

(Type in plaia 1945 pr code)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

9/23/51 co

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261) 8i-sviui

HELEASE In FAMI

FROM:

SAS, DALLAS (105-1280)

TOTAL DENIAL

SUBJECT: MINUTEMEN

INTORMATION CONCERNING ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

'INTERNAL SECURITY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

00 - HANSAS CITY

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 11/27/64.

DATE 12/4/83 BY 50T TA/CH)

Two coples of

letterhead menorandun are being furnished Kansas City,

and one copy 1s for information of Houston.

Investigation

conducted in anclosed letterhead memorandum by sA RIcHARd 1.

WIGHL.

lee ...

search-

DI I-1 15 VAN WILEY POLLAID

(On 11/30/64, I. I, ELLSWORTH, Agent ATTU, Dallas,

adrised he had prevlously spoken to the General Manager,

POLLARD's employer, in regard to POMAN's stabllity and

rellability.

ELUSWORTH advised FRANKS that he thought

POLIARD might be useful in supplig'information re whiskey

stills in the Ft. Worth ayea.

As a pretext for contacting

ELLSWORTH learned from this conversation that

POLLArD had been used as an informant by the karemont

Corporation to ascertain the cause of thefts from the

conpany.

ELLSWORTH stated he also checked with & JERRY

HIXSON of the smith Datectite Agency, Ft. Worth.

re POLLARD's

5 - Bureau (iM) (n8.

12-Kan898 City 64-179%

- Houston (Info)

Dallas 15

(1 - 157430) (ANP)

RLW/Sg

(13)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

185-1284-1517

HH 53074 DooId:32335778

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 105-1280

reliability and stability, inasmuch as he had controlled

POLLARD's informant status

at the Meremont Corporation.

Both FRANkS and HIXSON, ELLSWORTH advised, characterized

POLLARD AS

"Jumpy, but solid"

On the contact of POLLARD On 12/3/64, POLLARD

was seen driving a 1955 Plymouth, tour door green sedan,

1964 Texas lIcense FE 5593.

memorandum is classified "confidential" inasmuch as

Information furnished by DL T-l could reasonably result

in the identification of a contidential Informant oi

possible continuing value and compromise His possible

future effectiveness.

INTC, Ost, and Secret Service

have been advised locally and have been furnished two

copies of enclosed letterhead memorandum.

LEADS

DALLAS DIVISION

AT PARIS AND COOPER,

, TEXAS. Immediately

determine location of armories In"the area and ascertain

if an individual known as "SOUTH" 1s employed as a

custodian

and thereafter, conduct discreet background

re "SOUTH" if located.

AT FT. WORTH, TEXAS. Maintain contact with

VAN POLLARD.

HH 53074

DocId: 32335778

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (107-12-13-58)

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

Via

FBI

Date: 12/4/64

(Type in plaia (pose or code)

AIR MAIL

"Priority or Mashod of Malling)

Di

.12

9/23 9200==

as a riel

TOTAL DENIAL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 62/4/83_ BY 5P88870/CH

lize

ile

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107281)

FROM:

SAC, DALLAS (105-1289)

SUBJECT: MINUTEMEN

INFORHATION CONCERAING

INTERNAL SECURITY

00 - KANSAS CITY

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 11/27/64.

Enclosed to Bureau are ten copies of letterhea.

nemorandum captioned land dated as above.

Two coples of

letterhead memorandun are baing furnished Kansas City,

and one copy 1s for information of Houston.

Investigation

conducted in enclosed lettarhead manorandam by SA RICHARD 1.

WIEHL.

DI I-I 1S VAN HILT FOLLARD

On 11/30/64, F. E, ELLSWORTH, Agent ATTU, Da1128,

advised he had previously spoken to the General Hapager,

(FNU) FRANkS at the Maramont coxporation, t: worE,

POLLARD's employer, in regard to pOLLARD's stability ano

reliability.

ELLSWORTH advised FRANKS that he thought

pOLLaRD might be useful in supply information re whiskey

stills in the It. Worth ared, is a pretest for contacting

POLLARD, ELLSHORTH leArned ITPH thIs COnVerSatIOn that

had been usad as an injormant by the leremon

Corporation to ascertain the cause of theits fran the

сопралу.

ELLSWORTH stated he also checked with & JERRY

HIXSON of the Smith Detective Agency, Ft. Worth, re POLLARD'S

5 - Bureau (RM) (Eng. 10)

Z - Kansas City (62-7797)

2) (RM)

Houston (Info) linG.

2M)

Dallas (137 105-1280)

-134-338) (POLLARD)

(1- 157-50) (ANP)

RL.W/sS

.(13)

approved:

Sent -

Special Agent in Charge

_ M

Per -

135-1280-159

HH 53074 DocId:32335778 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DI 105-1280

rellability and stability, inasmuch as he had controlled

POLLARD's informant status at the Heremont Corporation.

Both FRANKS and HIXSON, ELLSWORTH advised, characterized

POLLARD as "jumpy, but solid"; "as an informant who gives

good information,

tends to dramatize."

on the contact ot POLLaiD on 12/3/64, POLLARD

was seen driving a 1955 Plymouth, four door green sedan,

1964 Texas license FE 5593.

Enclosed letterhead

memorandun is classified "confidential" inasmuch as

Information furnished by DL I-l could reasonably result

in the identification of a copfidential Informant of

possible continuing value and compromise fis possible

INTC, OSt, and Secret Service

have been advised locally and have been furnished two

copies of enclosed letterhead memorandum.

LEADS

DALLAS DIVISION

AT PARIS AND COOPER,

determine

TEXAS. Immediately

Iocation of armories In the area and ascertain

11 an individual kporn as "SOUTH" is employed as a

custodian and thereafter, conduct discreet background

re "SOUTH" 11 located.

AT IT. HORIE, TEXAS. Maintain contact with

VAN POLLARD.

53074

DocId: 32335778

Page

5

.

---

## Page 6

Г

FD-38 (Rov. 12-13-58)

Transmit the following in

Via.

AINTEL

FBI

Dates 12/4/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR HAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

ATf!

alize.

• index

ile.

arch

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-107261) JONALi

WELCASE IN PART

FROM:

SAC, DALLAS (105-1280)

SUBJECT: MINUTEMEN

INFORMATION CONCERNING

INTERNAL SECURITY

00 - KANSAS CITY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

JAIL. 12/14/83 BY SSBIQ/Ch

21/026

Re Dallas artel to Bureau, 11/27/64.

snclosed to Bureau are ten copies of letterhea

nemorandum captionad land dated an above.

Two copies of

letterhead memorandun are being furnished Kansas City,

and one copy is for information of Houston.

Investigation

conducted in enclosed letterhead memorandum by SA RICHARD 1.

WIFEL.

DI I-I IS VAN HILEY POLLARD

On 11/30/64, F. F, ELLSWORTH, Agent ATTU, Dallas,

advised he had previously spoken to the General Manager,

(FNU) FRANKS at the Maremont Corporation, ft. worth,

POLLARD's employer, in regard to pollall's stability ano

reliability.

ELLSWORTH advised FRANKS that he thought

POLLARD might be useful in supplug'information re whiskey

stills in the Ft. Worth area.

As a pretext for contacting

POLLARD, ELLSWORTH learned fron this conversation that

POLLARD

had been used as an informant by the isremont

Corporation to ascertain the cause of thefts from the

сопраду.

ELLSHORTH stated he also checked with a JERRY

HIXSON of the Smith Datective Agency, Ft. Worth, re POLLARD'g-

5 - Bureau (RH) (Enç. 10)

105

2 - Kansas City (62-7797)

(EnC. 3) (RM)157

12080147

Dallas (03- 105-1280)

(1 - 134-338Y POLLARD

BLH/SS

(1 - 157-60) CARP

(13)

posite

Walkdia.ca.ok

Approved:

sent -

- M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

HH 53074 DocId:32335778 Page 6

---

## Page 7

..*a

DL 105-1280

rellability and stability, inasmuch as he had controlled

POLLARD's informant status at the Meremont Corporation.

Both FlANiS and HIXSON, ELLSWORTH, advised, characterized

POLLARD as "jumpy, but solid"; "as an

good information,

tends to dramatize, „laformant who gives

On the contaçt of POLLARD on 12/3/64, POLLARD

was seen driving a 1955 Plymouth, four door green sedan,

1964 Texas license FE 5593.

Enclosed latterhead

memorandum is classified "confidential" inagnuch as

information furnished by DL T-1 could reasonably result

in the identification of a confideptial informant of

possible continuing value and compromise its possible

future effectiveness.

INTC, OSI, and Secret Service

have been advised locally and have been furnished two

copies of enclosed letterhead memorandum.

LEADS

DALIAS DIVISION

TEXAS. Immediately

determine location b1 armories In"the area and ascertain

if an individual known as "SOUTH" Is employed as a

custodian and thereafter, conduct discreet background

re "SOUTH" 11 located.

AT FT. WORTH, TIXAS. Maintain contact with

VAN POLLARD.

HH 53074

DooId: 32335778

Page 7

---

