# docid-32302872

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10384

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 100-401762-167

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: YEE, EDWIN

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/22/1971

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

RCF, RES, SHF, EMP, ASSOC, CP ACT, TRA, PASSPORI, BUSS,

DESCR, REL, TOLL CALLS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

19.1

DocId: 32302872

Page 1•

117

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

L'

NY 100-107383

ECRET

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont'd)

"China Daily News"

The Agents who observed subject and his wife at the

EDWIN YEE.

on 7/11/71 were SAS MICHAEL E. DENNEHY and

Subject had been included in Priority II of the former

SI. Review of his file does not reflect he should be recommended

for reallocation to Category I of the ADEX; he will continue, in

Category II.

Inasmuch as SUSAN FRANk, wife of subject, is subject

of a pending NYO case and information developed concerning

subject generally arises as a result of investigation of the

activities of his wife, NYO is placing the case in a closed

status to avoid duplication.

Information concerning subject will be channeled to

subject's case file and all significant data pertaining to subject

will be furnished the Bureau.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

A knowledgeable source in a

position to have information

of this type.

NY T-2

NY 559-S

A)

AY 6i81-574)

T-4

MI-5, Hong Kong

NY T-5

NY 694-S

NY T-6

SF 3169-S

File Where Located

100-42479

Characterization of

CHARLES and ROSE COE

Instant file

100-42479

Characterization of

LEIBEL BERGMAN

B

-

COVER PAGE

SECREM

CONFIDENTIAL

DocId: 32302872

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-305 (Rev. 7-26-71)

SECRET

ADEX

1. EX Subject's name is included in the X Security ladex CJ Reserve Index.

2. [x] The data appearing on the Seculty Index Card are current.

3. [J The data appearing on the Reserve Index Card CJA CJ B CJ are current [.] have

been changed.

4. [ Changes on the Security Index Card are necessary and Form FD-122 submitted

to the Bureau.

5: Ex A suitable photograph [x] is

is not available.

Date photograph was taken

6. [ Subject is employed in a key facility and

- is

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies are

7. Ex This report is classified

"Confidential"

_ because

(state reason)

it contains information from sources of continuing

value, supra, the unauthorized disclosure of which could

be prejudicial to the national defense interests.

8. EX Subject previously interviewed (dates) -

5/14/62 and 6/28/62

EX Subject was not reinterviewed because (state reason) his wife is presently

under investigation in regard to Chicom activities in the

An interview of subject may alert them to our

interest in them and jeopardize the investigation. Ad-

ditionally, he had been interviewed in the past and there

is no reason to believe he would be cooperative at this

9. [ This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria and a

letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending cancellation.

10. [X This case has been reevaluated in the light of the Seeurity Index ADEX

criteria and it continues to fall within such criteria because (state reason)

source has stated subject is a staunch pro-Chinese

Communist (8/15/66).

He associates with Communist

sympathizers and during 1971 visited Mainland China, Jes)..

ADEX card

Category

11. Ex Subject's-SI card is tabbed C] Priority I [X]Rtierity II

• Priority III.

[X] Subject's activities warrant such tabbing because (state reasons)

subject is

known to have been in touch with TANG Ming-chao, a

12.

in 8 is elderangeon gention:

Submitted

Placed

Yes

[x] No

13.

(date)

Subject is Extremist in Priority I of SI and Stop Notice has been placed

with NCIC.

SECRET

C*

COVER PAGEN

DocId: 32302872 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote) -

DATE: 11-11-2017.

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59) .

ECRET:

CONFID

U: TED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J-STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:.

Title:

1

- Secret Service, NYC (RM)

EDWIN YEE

DEC 2 2 1971

100-107383

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK

Office New York, New York

Bureau File #:

100-401762

Character:

Synopsis:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GE

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X (b)

(551) 8/29197

Subject continues to reside at 110 Christopher.

lance in the

st-television field.

NYC, with his wife and to be employed Ire€

He continues to remain in

contact with ROSE COE and JAMES and ANN LEE.

Subject

traveled to Mainland China around 9/71/ and rèturned around

early 11/71.

DETAILS

Residence and Employment

subject and

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINEL

HEY DIES URORAGSIFIED

EZ: 0E7J TREATS SHOWN

OTHERWISE

had no information indicating either

subject, whom she had

previously advised was employed free lance in the television

business, or his wife had changed occupations.

12/30/94

Classi

Declassiv on: MA

CUT

Excruder from automete

downgradingand

declarification.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

SECREL

U. S. GOVERNMENT

PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 0. - 406-840

DocId: 32302872

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleôtion Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREN

ILAL

NY 100-107383

NY T-3, on August 20, 1971, advised

JAMES LEE continues

to be the Managing

Editor of the CDN and his wife the

Business Manager.

The CDN was founded in 1940 by a group

of Chinese Communists and the persons who

controlled its policies since that time

have been Chinese Communist leaders in

the New York City (NYC) area. The CDN

receives releases from the New China News

Agency and the news published reflects

favorably on the People's Government of

Mainland China and is critical of the

D

TOTAL DENIAL/.

ON_

RELEASE IN PARL

RELEASE IN FULL 8, 3,4

14/17/97 NIN/ 207

URS.

REVIEWED BY SiT JIN XASE FORCE

Upon conclusion of the celebration, Special Agents (SAS)

of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), observed the FRANKS

departing the premises accompanied by JAMES and ANN LEE, two

caucasian females, an Oriental female, and a Negro male.

Travel

On October 7, 1971, an official of the Chemical Bank,

NY, NY, made available

information indicating subject was in

Beverly Hills,

California, on September 21, 1971.

Information

further indicated on September 26 and 27, 1971,

subject drew on

his account at the Chemical Bank, checks

in the amount of $100

and $50, respectively, payable to the Mandarin Hotel, Hong Kong•

The latter check was cleared through the dao Heng Bank, Ltd•.,

September 28, 1971.

At Washington, D.C.

The following investigation was conducted by SA J.

PETER CHASE:

The files of the Passport Office, United States

Department of state, washington, D.C. (WDC), reviewed or

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK WaS is-

sued passport number B-1942048 on September 8, 1971, at

NYC, NY, for proposed travel to England and France, the

SECRET

- 3 -

DocId: 32302872 Page 5

---

