# docid-32271014

## Page 1

10/06/97 MON 17:12 FAX 202. 724 0457

ARRB

@ 004

v09-16-96ccr

JFK RECORDS

Cross Reference: None

Status ln Syaten:

RT Status: Status 2: Ready for Supervisor Review

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10141-10210

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 13-09-03

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

05-31-2017

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE : 03/15/78

PAGES : 15

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTES

SUBJECT (S)

: MEXICO CITY; PHOTOGRAPHS AND FILMS; CIA, FILES;

CLASSIFICATION

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 3

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE

OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/01/95

COMMENTS

: Box 5

Date in: 01/26/96

ITEFFFFF

FFFFFFFF

WW 53080

DooId:32271014

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SEGRET

Summary OF CIlsoft file on the

unidentified mAn photographs.

pospared by DAN HArdwAy

3/15/18

THIS COPKIS NOT

FOR RELEASE.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELNGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

HH 53080

DocId: 32271014 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SEGRET

CI Soft file on Mmm photo

1. Blind memo dated 5/5/77:

"Goa result of a detailed

search of old records forwarded

man

"were located According

to these records, the man

risited the barriet embassi

in 2 October 1963 (not , October

as reported in Mexu-645306

8 October 1963) from 1216 to 1222

hours (local time) and on 4 October

ON 15 October 1963. 2/ 3he

records contain negatives.of

ive frames of photograph

Prints from two of their

frames were sent to

Headquarters as a part of the

station file on Oscala because

this man as mistakely -

gation before it was known

that Oswald had left Mexico

_ SEGRET.

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INJELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 3.

---

## Page 4

SEGRET

2

Ct before this hang t

thoree additional frames

these photographs add.no

me Photographso the underti.

fiedman

were provided hy

three seperate unilateral sources

the original records ere loca

(dhis is a report for 2,4, and 15.

October 1963). The other record

are beliered to haue been

destroyed in Merico since the

riginal file folders were

locatedand had been re-used

for more recent recordo. 3/

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

HH 53080

DocId: 32271014 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SEGRET

- 3÷

2

...It was discussed in Dave

Phillips book asa result case

of laziness on the part of

the soviet case officen (which

been picked upon the morni

of the 2nd of October. The

sue la guat alien

on the and of October. The

translation would haire

been returned the following

(4th) at which time, the

day it cast officer mould

haveasked for the photographic

That coverage woul

natese be core the lata

lefore the s th since the film

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOUF

SECRET

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 5.

---

## Page 6

SECRET

4

masall in the camera

have been Monday? October.

3. hater the film was taker

but of thecame a belay.

stayed in the camara until

~ full roll was completed

which.might take three.or

-fair days

4. Q.

name trace could have

been requested on the basis

of the name alone but that

wasn't the way tin Scotl

ran that Station. He wanted

he photographic correrag

the telephor

of the!

justifying a projet lu

& dispatches, cables,

or reports produced."

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELHIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED.

HH 53080 DocId: 32271011 Page 6.

---

## Page 7

-SEGRET

- 5-

hog of Film 744; duesday

It is in Spanich (lovent pictures.

a pant, oral pedera

Fil tron Cubes photos

in English. The entri

"Man sent to the Consulate

Memo (blind) e dated 5/2/77

" On 2 May 192021470

an

a visited

the

Record's Center

to reviece old Mexiço City files

in search of additional photo-

graphs of the "unidentified man".

Ne were unable to locate any

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INFELTIGINCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 7

---

## Page 8

-6-

subject 201 folders, indicatine

contents ol

o original subject

an '" files were destroyed

HMMA 40,562, 21 Many 1971.

7. Blind; undated memo entitled

Mexico station Coverage o

dovet and Cuban Embassies

(1963) :

A There were three phato

coverage sites on the loviet

alast One as dinetle

soviet gate. the second

covered the backjard of the

sorret conspound. The third

position for

the first one...

was a backup he first base

was closed when the station

leaned that the Mariens

WARNING NOTICE

SECRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page B

---

## Page 9

SECRET

I. These three bases were

managed by an agent

callected the film frow the

wo main bases three tim

a weck. The film was then

agent

She enabeats btation clearly

had co unilateral telephone

WARNING NOTICE

-SENSITIVE INTEULIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET

÷8-

d. In 1961 the COS became

the case officer for the

mexican/american intercept

afficer assisted in dail

incension ta picked yo

There was also an American

technician at the listening

Pis mid 16s the Merican

authorities asked for the

phone numbers of the Cuban,

oviet and satellite embassies.

Fle CIA Station then discon-

nectedall of their unilateral

tapo so they manhe not le

Cuban lines. Alive moniter

is of the

SECRET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SEGRET

=9-

were completed, usually

rel audayor turo lag

n we

taken to

translation, the translation

rawabanta week

anally nasanta meet

sation."

g. "As soon as the station

barned that an American

dentifying linest mt

embass on charted an

all photographs. However, here

again, there was a backlog

usually for dates a fewdays

before since the technici

who was processing the film,

did do awa night-time basis

Further, phatographs were not

made initially until a conjalete

roll of filen was used. Later

is as changed and the

SECRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

HH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 11

---

## Page 12

[ S

=10-

cover the entire work day

all foreigners, and cars with

forest license plate sal

the agents mere conscientiago.

had more sophisticated

equeement usinga

camera which frequently

developed mechanical

Oswald came to the

attention of the listening

past aperators trama

tay of the toriet line. It

was picked upand taken

translation because i for

caller was trying to Spant

delay because station personne

waited to compare the photogrash

WARNING -NOTICE

SHET

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

with the typed transcript."

There are several cables and

memos about a tentativ

identification of the mmm

as erneof "Hiry Ivanovich

Moskaler", a KGB office

10 FaG. 27. "Nates made bu

ber.

Emplyee

I GStaff'"

a the three phats sites were

handled bu

He callested the filmand hi

• trother in-law printed'it.

" the inside (Quas

the sents ned imptivere

was a TSD

officer who was put inside

Enolage s

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 13

.SEGRET

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

---

## Page 14

SEGRET

I he tre antingie .

(6 163-9/65)

CA:

avid Phillips (9/61-3/44)

asst

8/62-9/44)

CULA Ops:

Chiel

(4/13 - 4/65)

(9/43 - 7/45)

(10/63 - 5/65)

Dave Phillips Chiek

8163-6/65)

Sovist tArget:

# (9/59-8k63)

(

')

(5/64-7/45)

Outside CO (6/62-1/47)

Support Assets

UNilAt

PerONE tAp:

0(2/60-101

Outside CO

49-71

UNiLAt Photo CubANs:

6159-4164

SECRI

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

WH 53080 DocId:32271014 Page 14

---

## Page 15

13

SECRET

10

Sovist UNilAt. Photo :

6/58-6/63

6/63-10/64

Laison phone tapes

62-68

61-71

Liaisons

unveillance.

12/62-9/62

TSD Oublale Umit

4/58-12/65

• E

took the reel

to

who would

then get it to the

Memoranden prepared lu

Rockefeller Cami

th."

SEGRET

_ WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

HH. 53080 DooId:32271014 Page 15

---

## Page 16

14 BE SEGRET

al all coverage mas conducted

after the assassination

1963. Ahisconfirmed

cableat

batthough It had madea;

request on 15 October, the

CIA's Mexico representative

had no photo of Oswald

in his records, nor did he

ave one either-before

22 Movember 1963."

SEGRET

WARNING: NOTICE

SENSTIVE INTELLIGENCE •SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

HH 53080

DocId:32271014 Page 16

---

