# docid-32311393

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10313-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-395934-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/07/1964

2

ELIZABETH CATLETT MORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/23/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311393

Page 1

---

## Page 2

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107-Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

perr

streets's +371-200-3735057

*(u)

Legat, Mexico,

2134-102 (P)

XEX-18 and MEX-107

(4)

ADHINISIRADIVE

1577-64

146.47.

• Renylet 4-14-64. 4

On 5-5-64 MEX-19 advised that he had postponed

his planned trip to Hollywood to secure employment as a

writer in motion picture or television productions until

approximately May 15, 1964,

The informant's decision to

postpone his trip was entirely voluntary and was made in

ordex to unash coverage on an ancieipated meeting wach

ELIZABETH MORA (Bufile 100-395934) 64)

During the latter pant of April, 1904, ELTZABIH

MORA advised the informants that she was expecting some

very important Negroes and that in order to accommodate

those visitors her husband, VRANCISCO MORA (Bufile 105-47124),

had been exploring the possibility of temporarily renting

a secluded but a very commodioue hacienda near Pachuca,

Nexico.

MORA invited the informants to accompany then

that hactende to meet these distinguished visitors.

to

The

informants, however, were unable to determine from her

at that time the identities of the visitors although, in

accordance with Bureau instructions, the informants have

been alerced to the reported poscibility that ELIJAR

MUHANVAD of the Nation of Islam was planning to visit

Mexico:

The informants were unable, however, to determine

whether the distinguished visitors were connected with

the Nation of Islan,

In vien of the importance MORA

placed on this visit, however, MTX-18 and Mex-19 felt that

it was urgently important to identity MORA'o antieinated

guests and

finish as much coverage of the meeting as

possible.

14)

5 - Burceu

(L* Balson

MASTE X 04210T/AG

CLASSIFIED BY

(2 - Los Angeles)

3 - Moxico C16y

• (6)

1200-395934-

NOT RECORDED

102 MAY 15 1964

ORIGANAL HOLND MA

72 MAY 201980

CONFIBENTIAL

313-12902

DocId: 32311393 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

N0X134-10

CON

AL

RATIOATION

As the Bureau in aware,

the informants have been

endeavoring for several wools to arrange a private wreck end

away tron Macioo City with the wORle in order to olerily

certath aspects of the LER HARVEY OSWALD case and MORAle

original intercot in that casa. It has not been possible,

however; for the informante to male effective arrangemente

with ELIZABILE NORA for such a two or three-day perlod as

time sangements have boon made wOrA has found 1c

necessary to postpone the trip and remain in Mexico City.

importanee of claritying these aspects, of the OSTALD

case has been impressed upon the informants and WEt 19

has postponed his trip to Hollywood in order to follow

Fachuca on the weok end of Mey 9.

The informants

be able to work out ino or three additional days alone

with MORA

an order to handle pending leads in the OSuALI

MAX 19 has voluntarily postponed his trip to

Hollywood and has advised that he does not believe

securing employment as a mitor there,

ts felt that the action of MEX-19 in post-

poning his tolp to Hollywood in order to handle important

matters or anterest to this oiiice shone a very hearth

and cooperative attitude on his part. @u)

The Bureau will be adrised shenfur-19 pettally

Leaves Mexico®

Tro extra copies of this letter are subnicted

for the infomation of the Los Angeles office. u

CONDENTIAL

31310992

DocId: 32311393

Page 3

---

