# docid-32307414

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10117

RECORD SERJES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-172694-62, 63

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: GIBBONS, FRANCIS E.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/04/1969

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS :

FS, INTERNATIONAL ANTI-COMMUNIST BRIGADE, ACA,

EMP, RES, BKG, TRA, ASSOC, ARREST, MIL MISSION, CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

/ CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC NEWS ARTIC, PAY SCALE, APPLICATION, ENV, MEMO

v9.1

HY 45961

DocId: 32307414

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• ' 1.

?::

MM 2-192

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDACORPIRAnIaR

1.

Will continue efforts to obtain information regarding

ITSMV and Neutrality Matters aspects of IACB-CASTRO Operation..

2. Wili await Departmental decision regarding

possible prosecution in

this matter.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Interstate Transportation of Stolen Motor

Vehicle. aspects of this case are being handled in the

Miami case titled "ROBERT PAUL CURTIS; ITSMV", Miami

file 26-34692, Bureau file 26-407068.

Referenced report dated January 6, 1969,

contained, beginning on page 58, an interview with CHERYL

SCHLECKER, in which that individual described how she and

subject MAX GONZALEZ traveled to Mexico in August, 1968,

with RAY and LYNN BANNISTER, in 1968 Chevrolets.

BANNISTER was later identified by MM 1312-C as RAY BRUCE.

Subsequently, Miami investigation disclosed that the true

name of RAY BRUCE is LOMEN RAY BRUCE, whose wife is CARRIE

LYNN BRUCE. CARRIE LYNN BRUCE, also known as LYNN BRUCE

and LYNN BANNISTER, was located and interviewed on March 18,

1969, results of which interview are set out in instant

report.

LOMEN RAY BRUCE was interviewed on March 24, 1969,

results of which are set out in details, and was ostensibly

cooperative. However, his version of the trip to Mexico

differed in several basic aspects from the story given by

his wife. It is believed that BRUCE has more information

regarding the cars driven into Mexico by himself and GONZALEZ,

and more knowledge regarding FIORINI's plans for subject

organization prior to onset of actual operation, than he

divulged during interview.

Re-interview of BRUCE will be

considered should Legat, Mexico City investigation produce

information warranting this.

The BRUCEs evidently returned

to

the U.S., singly or together, without participating in the

Mexico phase of the IACB operation, except that the car they

drove into Mexico was probably a rental car disposed of in the

same manner as other rental cars previously mentioned in this case

-C-

COVER PAGE

Goalidnot:

HW

45961 DocId: 32307414 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-192

Confidential

On January 17, 1969, Vice Consul DONALD J.

YELLMAN of Merida advised they had not yet obtained the

information, but would renew their request. Mll)

Requests have been made at American Express

Company, 65 Broadway, New York, New York in November and

December, 1968 and January, 1969, regarding the origin

of the $50 Travelers check #NA 63-070-069; however, to date

due to internal administrative problems, the information

requested has not been received.

Information received from American Express Co.,

shovld be "cates that the prefix "NA" is an error, and

As soon as information requested above has been

received, the Bureau and the office of origin will be

promptly advised by the New York Office.

The following confidential informants who are

acquainted with some anti-CASTRO activities in the New

York City area were contacted on the dates indicated below

and they advised that they are unacquainted with the above

organization.

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

Informant

Date

Contacting Agent

XCSNY / 2623757C

CSNY 2822-S

CSNY 4783-S

NY 5938-S

11/26/68

11/26/68

11/21/68

11/26/68

7PSI 11/26/68

FRANCIS J. O'BRIEN

++

4t

Summary of interviews of subjects SAPP, HULBERT and

WELLS would indicate that all three continue to tell diverse

stories.

SAPP indicates that_he-would testify_to the fact

that he, WELLS, HULBERT and STOY left Vero Beach in a late

model,

Tight-colored,

small-sized Chevrolet apparently in

the possession of WELLS.

from the story told by WELLS, who in his first interview

indicated that he traveled by bus with FRANK HULBERT and

ho that is tue

This story

differs markedly

in his second interview indicated he traveled alone..

HULBERT also indicated that he traveled alone.

HULBERT both indicate that they did not meet with SAPP

at thosed not met ath sus, and

until they reached Texas.

-D-

COVER PAGE

Confidential

HW

45961 DocId: 32307414

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MN 2-192

Confidentiat

SAPP, who displayed a cooperative attitude during

Miami Office interviews is now being contaded as a PCI.

HERBERT JOSEPH FENDER, interview of whom appears

in details, and who was previously contacted in this

matter, is

currently a racial source of the Miami Office

(MM 1334-R (Prob) ). No attempt was made to conceal

his identity because he is available for testimony

concerning the information furnished.

Numerous contacts with Lt. CARL PEASE (NA) ,

Vero Beach Police Department, Vero Beach, Florida by

SA DAVID C. CALLAN have not developed any further information

concerning the Vero Beach subjects in this case.

On February 4, 1969, Lt. JOHN MC CANTS, Indian

River County Sheriff's Office,

Vero Beach, advised SA

DAVID C. CAILAN that he had received no reports of any

stolen or misappropriated rental cars during August and

September, 1968.

Regarding Departmental request for further

investigation in this matter, per referenced Bureau airtel,

it is feit that re-interviews of CURTIS and MANNING have

resolved as much as possible discrepancies in their

previous descriptions of transported weapons.

BROWN

denied knowledge that FIORINI furnished weapons to be

transported to Mexico by MANNING and/or CURTIS.

As indicated in details interviews, there are no

U.S. Government records which would corroborate the

travel of FIORINI or any members of his group from the

United States to Mexico.

A U.S. citizen is not required

to register with any U.S. Government agency prior to

crossing into Mexico.

return. trip he must make out

a U.S. Customs baggage declaration slip if he has any

merchandise to declare, but no permanent record is otherwise

maintained of his re-entr:.

As set out on pages 19. and 20 of referenced LHM

dated September 19, 1968, EMMETT MARTIN QUINN, 165 Isle of

Venjre, apartment 5, F:.

Lauderdale furnished two single

handouts concerning subject organization, which

were distributed to persons responding to a recruitment

-E-

COVER. PAGE

Confidential

Hw

45961 DocId: 32307414 Page

4

---

