# docid-32311521

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date: •

4/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10318-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-116606-FOLDER 96

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

TOLSON

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/29/1960

4

JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/30/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32311521

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

March 29, 1960

The Los Angeles Ofice, by letter dated 3/22/69, advised that

a criminal intormant indicated that the editors of Confidential Magazine

have had a reporter in the Los Angeles area during the past few days

for the purpose of checking into a rumor regarding an alleged miscreet

party recently held at Palm Springs in which participants were said te

be Senator John Kennedy, his brother-in-law Peter Lawford,

the actor,

and Frank Sinatra,, The informant said that the last time senator Kennedy

/ was in California for a visit he stayed in Sinatra's home in Palm Springs.

He advised that Sinatra and Lawford are the owners of Puccini's

Restaurant in Beverly Hills, California.

The informant also advised that Confidential Magazine was

attempting to obtain private investigators to verify or disprove the rumors

concerning the party. The Los Angeles Office has no verification or

other information concerning this matter. The intormant, however, is

in a position to know oi investigative activities conducted by Confidential

Magazine.

By Airtel dated 3/23/60, the New Orleans Office advised that

Mr. Joseph Hegeman, who operates a public relations business in New

Orleans and who is a possible criminal informant of that office, furnished

the following information:

Hegeman advised that among his clients in the public relations

field are,

Jerry Wald, Hollywood motion picture producer, and Phillip

Frank Kastel, New Orleans top hoodlum.

He said that in the course of

representing Kastel's gambling interests he has met a number of well

known hoodlums such as Meyer Lansky, a gambler operating in Miami

and Havana, and Joe Fischetti, who Hegeman believes is the dominant

figure in the racketeering element in the Miami area. Hegeman said

that as a result of his numerous contacts with these individuals he has

met socially a number of their associates whose identities are not known

to him and whom he has not sought to identify. I seGSh)DaS

Hegeman said he has overheard a number of conversations

between these individuals concerning their activities. Within the past

week he returned from the Miami area and while there he learned from

DocId: 32311521 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

March 29, 1960

individuals whom he declined to identify, except to state they were

members of the underworld element, that Fischetti and other unidentified,

hoodlums are financially supporting and actively endeavoring to secure

the nomination for the presidency as Democratic candidate, Senator

John F. Kennedy. He said that Frank Sinatra is going to campaign for

Kennedy in several of the primaries.

He advised that Sinatra is a

nephew of hoodlum Joe Fischetti, and that Sinatra is only booked to appear

after clearances obtained with Fischetti.

Hegeman said that Sinatra's song writer, Jimmy Van Husen,

is presently writing campaign songs for Kennedy:

Hegeman indicated

that it is his opinion that Sinatra and Van Husen are being made available.

to assist Senator Kennedy's campaign so that Fischetti and other hoodlums

Will have an entree to Senator Kennedy:

Hegeman advised that Senator Kennedy's brother-in-law, Peter

Lawford, has been cultivated by Sinatra and they are now apparently

close associates.

He said that Lawford has one half of one percent interest

in the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas.

Hegeman said that when he was in Miami he had occasion to over-

hear a conversation which indicated that Senator Kennedy had been

compromised with a woman in Las Vegas, Nevada.

He said he knew

Senator Kennedy was staying at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas about six

or eight weeks ago and that he had observed Senator Kennedy in the night

club of the Sands Hotel during this period.

1. He had no idea as to the

identity of any possible female companion.

Hegeman also advised that when Senator Kennedy was in Miami,

Florida an airline hostess named Susan Stallings was sent to visit Senator

Kennedy:

He did not know just when this occurred and declined to identify

his informant. Hegeman advised that he was considerably disturbed

at receiving all of this information as he would hate to see a pawn of the

hoodlum element such as Sinatra have access to the White House.

An editorial appearing in the March 23, 1960 edition of the Los

Angeles Herald and Express severely criticized Simatra for hiring Albert

Maltz and, among other things, pointed out "the impact of Mr. Sinatra's

move may, also cause dismay in the campaign camp of Senator John F.

Kennedy, through no fault of his own. Mr. Sinatra bas put himpelf

forward as a strong Kennedy supporter and the Sinatra recording of

High Hopes" is the Kennedy campaign song.

DocId: 32311521 Page 3

---

