# docid-32287015

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coliection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10196-10291

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

62-9-9-1363

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, JK

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

09/04/1963

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, ACT, BKG, JOHNSTON, WILLIAM JR.,

NEWSARTICLE, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 NEWS ARTICLE

v9.1

DocId: 32287015

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JK 66-208

During this same period of time, the "Jacksonville

Journal" ran an article concerning JOHNSTON's testimony

before the Kefauver Committee which conveyed the impression

that he had been associated with the hoodlum element and

that he had been linked with them. JOHNSTON in interview

with Bureau Agents advised that he went to the newspaper

and threatened to sue them for slander if a general

retraction of this article was not printed. At that time

JOHNSTON stated,

"I am not and

have never been connected

in any way with

the CAPONE mob or any other mob."

During our investigations in the Criminal Intelli-

gence Field, no information has been received which would in-

dicate that

WILLIAM H. JOHNSTON, SR., is in touch with local

hoodlums, nor has there previously been any information re-

ceived from any other division indicating association or

contact with hoodlum elements.

of Radio Station WRiC, an established source of the Jack-

sonville Division, has been contacted. He advises that he

has known JOHNSTON for about thirty years and considers

JOHNSTON a close friend. He confidentially furnished the

following information:

Twenty-five to thirty years ago JOHNSTON was sent

to Jacksonville from Chicago, Illinois, by one EDDIE O'HARE,

a Chicago hoodlum, to manage the Jacksonville Kennel Club.

O'HARE financed the venture and JOHNSTON received a nominal

salary.

Part of JOHNSTON's job involved public relations

and at

that time COHN was managing editor of the "Jacksonville

Journal."

About fifteen years ago, one of AL CAPONE's henchmen,

name unknown, allegedly tried to

"muscle in" on O'HARE's opera-

tions and as O'HARE was in no position to refuse, O 'HARI's

holdings were partly given to some of CAPONE's henchmen, names

unknown.

O'Hare trusted JOHNSTON and named him beneficiary

of some of his business interests which included the Jackson-

ville dog track. About twelve years ago, O'HARE had his head

blown off in a

gangland-style murder and it became necessary

for JOHNSTON to negotiate with the Chicago hoodlums in order

to buy out their interest in the Jacksonville Kennel Club.

JOHNSTON reportedly was successful in this and controls the

club without any interference from the Chicago element.

JOHNSTON is not believed to have had contact with the hoodlums

since that time although he undoubtedly knows many of them and

DocId: 32287015

Page 2

---

