# docid-32357818

## Page 1

Date: 11/07/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10106-10653

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53294 Date:

06-14-2017

ORIGINATOR :

FROM

TO :

TITLE

DATE

:

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CIA

: DONALD DEAN BOHNING

06/14/68

1

BOHNING,

DONALD

GARRISON, JIM

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/09/97

• DELETIONS

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : JFK42: F11 1997.06.09.09:33:51:153092:

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53294

DocId: 32357818

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

14 June 1968

SUBJECT: BOHNING, Donald Deau

ALLEGATION:

CIA CONNECTION:

Donald Dean BOHNING, Latis

American Editor of the MIAMI

HERALD was contacted by a

Winston SMITH on 28 March 1958.

SMITH calimed he was an in-

vestigator for GARRISON and

was seeking, informution for

GARRISON about one Rolanio

MASHPRRER.

BOHNING was granted a

Provisional Security Approval

on 21 August 1967 and a Covert

Security Approval on 14 lovember 1967

for use as a confidentia: informant

with natural accoa: to iutormation about;

news companied mul promili.

SOURCE:

CI/R&A Memo No. 9 dated

5 June 1968.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject was born 26 June 1933 at Harrold, South Dakota. He has

been employed by the MIAMI HERALD sinee 1959. Subject was wied ry the

Agency as stated above.

However, he was not to be used operationally

nor given clandestine training or

assignments. If such a use war

contemplated, a PDA/DA was to be requested.

DETAILS:

None known except for paragraph 3. of Source memo which is quoted

below:

"a. BOHNING is the Latin American Editor of the Miami HERALD.

He was granted a PCSA on 21 August 1967 and a CSA on 14 November 1967.

He is AMCARBON- 3.

"b.

BOHNING reported he was contacted on 28 Munch 1969

by a Winston SMITH who claimed to be investigating Rolando

MASFERRER for Jim GARRISON."

See attached

summaries on Winston SMITH and Rolando MACFARRER.

Excluden tica Buloralia

downgradin? and

14.

HIH

53294

DocTd: 32357818

Pade

---

## Page 3

SECRET

14 June 1968

SUBJECT: BOHNING, Donald Dean

ALLEGATION:

CIA CONNECTION:

Donald

• Dean BOHNING, Latin

American Editor of the MIAMI

HERALD was contacted by a

Winston SMITH on 28 March 1968.

SMITH calimed he was an in-

vestigator for GARRISON and

was seeking informution for.

GARRISON about one Rolando

MASFERRER.

BOHNING was granted a

Provisional Security Approval

on 21 August 1967 and a Covert

Security Approval on 14 November 1967

for use as a confidential informant

with natural access to information ahout

news

compunes and prcomalitied.

SOURCE:

CI/R&A Memo No. 9 dated

5 June 1968.

OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject was born 26 June 1933 at Harrold, South Dakota.

He has

been employed by the MIAMI HERALD sinee 1959. Subject was used by the

Agency as stated above.

However,

he was not to be used operationally

nor given clandestine training or assignments. If such a use was

contemplated, a POA/DA was to be requested.

DETAILS:

None known except for paragraph 3. of Source memo which

is quoted

below:

"a. BOHNING is the Latin American Editor of the Miami HERALD.

He was granted a PCSA on 21 August 1967 and

a CSA on 14 November 1967.

He is AMCARBON- 3•

"b. BOHNING reported he was contacted on 28 March 1968

by a Winston SMITH who claimed to be investigating Rolando

MASFERRER for Jim GARRISON."

See attached, summaries on Winston SMITH and Rolando MACERRER.

GROGP I

Encludeo ica sutomalit

downgrading, and

declassication

14.

H 53294 Docid

---

