# docid-32326335

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90046-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-23-402

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: KC

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/06/1962

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

LEWIS J. MCWILLIE

TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT, INC ADMIN PAGE

V9.1

DocId: 32326335

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection AethOf 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE? 49-1422059)

Transmit the following in

A IRTEL

FBI.

Date:

7/6/62

PLAIN

(Type in plain text or code)

A IRMA IL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-23)

FROM:

SAC, KANSAS CITY

(92-659)

1OF HOODLUM PROGRAM

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

KANSAS CITY DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

Re Kansas City airtel 6/28/62.

KC 284-C and KC 285-C advised as far as the gambling is

concerned in which the "Clique" and its members are operating,

is divided into five different locations.

The entire operation

is controlled by the Roma Bakery; however, the central point is

on 9th Street, the office of MORRIS KLEIN. KLEIN supplies all

the brains as

far as the gambling operation is concerned and

without KLEIN the gambling operation would never have progressed

the way it has.

He operates policy and books horse races,

basketball, baseball and football lotteries.

How KLEIN gets

the results on races and point spread on athletic events is

unknown to CI's; however, after they are obtained by him'he in

turn relays them to the other locations in kansas city.

is answerable to NICHOLAS CIVELLA, who furnishes the muscles,

11 needed, and of course NICKNCIVELLA Is answerable to the Romay

Bakery.

They further advised that KLEIN has an employee

by the name of

TONY GARGOTTA and other booking places

all under KLEIN's

direction are

the following:

REC-57

3

3

62-9-25-402

-

Bureau

Kansas City

(2 - 92-659)

(1 - 92-116)

49232

GFL: jC

(6)

To

c = wickl

* 27, EX 113

5 JUL 8 1962

One copies made!

Approved

51 JUL 191962

Agent in Charge

Sent

_M

for reviev at FDTHQ by

PefscAre 12 2277 equeste

(See Bufile #02-117290)

DocId: 32326335

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaced under the John E. Kenuedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

F. Б

KC

92-659

SAM/CARROLLA, PHIL

MAGGIO, 1320 Guinotte

MIKE LASCUOLA, West End Hotel

JOHN MANGIARACINA, Giovanni's Steak House,

19th and Main

An unknown location in the City Market area

operated by ANTHONY GIVELLA,

PHIL

SIMONE and SAM CIRO:

KC 284-C advised that ROY LEB WILLIAMS, Chairman of Joint

Council 56, Teamsters Union, 'contacted NICHOLAS CIVELLA and

the two decided who the Clique and Teamsters would back in

the next political election in Kansas City. According to this

source, neither the Clique nor the Teamsters will be back of

Judge JOHN KOPP.

According to this source, CIVELLA and WILLIAMS

had this discussion in order to determine if the same candidates

would be agreeable to both the Clique and the Teamsters and that

neither wanted to back a candidate that either was opposed to.

Mr. BERTRAM WANSTREET, INS, KMO, advised that investigation

has disclosed that THOMAS FONTANELLO, -FBI #344518, and

NAGEL JOSEPH MAROON, FBI #472766, have been determined to be

aliens and

are susceptible to deportation.

A separate

communication to the Bureau will be forwarded concerning this

matter.

Vegas Division advised that investigation disclosed

GACIOPPO, aka WHaMS Morgan, FBI #619492, a member of

at the Riverside Hotel,

, Reno, "Nevada from

6/13 to 6/15/62.

Reservations were made by LEWIS JOSEPH MCWILLIE,,

born 5/4/08, Kansas City, FBI #4404064, who is gaming manager. of

the Riverside Hotel.. The purpose of this trip has not been

ascertained to date.

The following is pertinent information received from KC 737-C*

since 6/26/62.

No pertinent information developed.

It is

noted that MORRIS KLEIN was absent for a portion of the period

covered by this airtel:

6/27/62:

J.

KRISEMAN and TOOTI

'IsH were at the toy shop, no pertinent

information.

PAGE TWO.

DocId: 32326335

Page 3

---

