# docid-32315018

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10338-10128

RECORD SERIES: LA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 94-150A-233

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: KC

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/31/1962

1

NICHOLAS CIVELLA (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315018

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

= OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVEXNMENT

Memorandum

TO

SAC, Kansas City (94-150A)

FROM : Director, FBI

SUBJECT:

DATE: January 31, 1962

JUNE

UNUSUAL TECHNIQUE

INSTALLATION OF MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

KANSAS CITY DIVISION

Reurlet 1/22/62.

Referenced letter submitted diagrams and technical details

of the microphone installation recently completed by SA George D. Adams

of your office in connection with the investigation captioned "Nicholas

Civella, aka., Anti-Racketeering. " A sample recording obtained from

this installation was also submitted under cover of referenced letter.

Descriptive material furnished indicates that the installation

was well planned and that detailed attention was given to all aspects of

the installation. This is further evidenced by the excellent quality of

the binaural recording obtained from the installation. Although

penetration of a common wall to achieve microphone coverage is not a

new technique, SA Adams displayed alertness and ingenuity in taking

advantage of an unusual condition to achieve this microphone coverage.

I desire that you personally express my appreciation to

SA Adams and to other personnel of your office who may have assisted

him for the excellent work which was done in connection with this

installation.

ADAms bor

SCHMIOT

MARIO

som

94-1504-233

SEARCHED.

SEARCHED FE

FEB

1102

FBI KANSAS UNIT

DocId: 32315018

Page 2

---

