# docid-32301693

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10279-10028

RECORD SERIES: HQ

•AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-1993-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DAVIS, WILLIAM J.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

09/27/1968

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW. :

ELC, DOMINGUEZ, JUSTO LOZARO ALFONZO, ADVISED,

AFFIL, BKG, REL, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45774 DocId: 32301693

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-8-67)

FEDERA.

UREAU OF INV

REPORTING OFFICE

NEWARK

OFFICE UF ORIGIN

NEWARK

TITLE OF CASE

MICHAEL

ANGEL

EX CAROLIS;

CHARLES MARTIN CONKLIN;

GUILLERMO NOVO -SAMPOL ;

IGNACIO NOVO SAMPOL;

JUAN JOSE MAS SARDA

PERNANDEZ

GATION

SECHEN

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/11 - 9/25/68

REPORT MADE BY

WILLIAM J. CLA WAS NO OBJECTION TO

CHARACTER OF CRECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

TYPED BY

ma fm

REFERENCES

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICES

ADVISED BYROUTING

MATE

ADMINISPRATIVE

6/18/85

Bureau airtel to Newark dated 8/29/68

captioned "PODER CUBANO (CUBAN POWER),

IS-CUBA."

Bureau airtel to Newark dated 9/20/68

captioned "CHARLES: MARTIN CONKLIN,

IS-CUBA.

-P-

121826

Classit

Declassin on:

TENS

PSI

has. Hivised that he is

not willing to

testify since he feels

do so would be to

fortest hia 11te.l

NY 5938-S, also, 1s not willing to testify.

(и)

One copy of the report is being held at

Newark

for possible future dissemination

to the USA locally:

• No,

other local dissemination is. contemplated at this time.

ACCOMPLiSHMENTS CLAIMED

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

V VIC.

AUTO

FUG.

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

Creste

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS,

I APPROVED

PIESMADE:

i0/2/18

1o/i/6

wind

CLASSIFIED BY SPL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25%

4128|99

2CCOTINA

(SEE COVER PAGE B)E

_copies made

for review at FBIHQ by.

2-1943

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

REC-32

GT34

EX-102

IL

* SEP 28-1968

4

Suita

Dissemination

Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

stato/eli/secret servleepero

ust

BY R/S For

8. 9 0et 2 2 7968

559014444

lotation su

REASON-BCTH

DARE OF REVEN

1ьH1a28

LATIN'AMERICAN

OR CONTAINED

IT SECRET

HEREIN, IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

# U.S.. GOVE

OFFICE: 1967 0-273-87

NW 45774 DocId: 32301693

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

