# docid-32308675

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10296-10003

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-117221-6

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case# :NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, DL

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 02/14/1963

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT: LAR, DESCR, RES, ASSOC, KOMITAS QUARTET, TRA

DOCUMENT_TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

01/06/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

HW 53025

DocId: 32308675

Page 1

---

## Page 2

HOW

FORW

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

logic.

SAC, DALLAS (105-1536) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

(VISIT OF KOMITAS QUARTET

TO UNITED STATES 1963

IS - R

00 - Washington Field

DATE: 2/14/63

Re Washington Field airtel to Bureau, 1/11/63 and

Seattle airtel to Bureau, 1/22/63. 4

Enclosed to the Bureau are five copies of a letterhead

memorandum, dated 2/14/63; also two copies to Washington Field

with three photographs of

the Komitas Quartet (taken by ZELMAN

BROUNOFF, Dallas

Texas, confidential source of the Dallas Office

identified below).

The confidential informant referred to in the enclosed

memorandum is identified as ZELMAN BROUNOFF, operator of Brounoff's

Orchestra Agency, 11851 Highmeadow Drive, Dallas, Texas, who is

also a member of

the Dallas Symphony Orchestra.

He is a confidential

source of the Dallas Office pertaining to security matters (Dallas

file 134-55) a

Contact with him as shown in the enclosed memorandum

on 1/28/63 was by SA JIMMY W. GEIGER and EDWIN D. KUYKENDALL.

Contact with him on 2/1/63 was by SAS RICHARD A. GRANDY and EDWIN

D. KUYKENDALL, U

In addition to the information shown in the enclosed

memorandum, Mr.

ZELMAN BROUNOFF, on 2/1/63, advised that some

persons in

Dallas were critical

of instant

quartet appearing in

Dallas and efforts to have them utilize the Highland Park Town

Hall Auditorium, Dallas, resulted in Highland Park authorities

declining their

use of that auditorium there.

Some persons

criticized members of

the Dallas Chamber Music Society for sponsor-

ing the Komitas Quartet's appearance in Dallas.

No difficulty

arose, however, at the time of the appearance of this group at

Fincher Auditori

SMU

Dallas. The Dallas Chamber Music Society.

in Dance of this buste at

had engaged ithe

#dest of the Greenville Avenue Patrol, Dallas,

a guard and

night

watchiservice, to furnish one or two officers to

to be present

as

feguard at

the concert.

No incident occurred.

It was noted, -Have

circulars entitled "Cultural Orchange"

were distributed

Bureau (encis-5) (RM)

2 - Washington Field (enc1s-5) (105-5191792 (PIN) 18 1963

2 - Dallas (1 - 134-55) (1 - 105-1536)

EDK: jeg

6(6) FEB 27-963

EX: 108

Yde flong

NH 53025

DooId: 32308675

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 105-1536

in automobiles.

These circulars reflected they were put out by

Life Line, 620 - 11th Street N.W.,

Washington, D. C. BROUNOFF

furnished one copy of the circular that was distributed. It bears

date of 6/18/62, Volume 4, No. 73, and stated it is an edition of

Life Lines, published three times

each week by that organization.

It is critical of the United States for its cultural exchange

program with Soviet Russia.

Life Line has as one of its sponsors

H. L. HUNT, a wealthy Dallas, Texas, oil man. U

• Mr. BROUNOFF, on 2/6/63, made available to SA KUYKENDALI

five photographs he took at the concert in Dallas given by the

Komitas Quartet on 1/30/63.

Three of the photographs were long

shot views in the auditorium of that quartet, one including the

composer (EDWARD MIRZOYAN) taking a bow.

One photograph was of

JOHN ROSENFIELD (Dallas, Texas, music critic and employee of the "

"Dallas Morning News," daily newspaper, Dallas, Texas) and LEV ARONSON,

músician, Dallas.

The other photograph was of Mrs. JOHN ROSENFIELD

and a Mrs.

BROWN. These photographs are retained in the

Dallas file except those enclosed

to Washington Field, described

above.

Mr.

BROUNOFF, on 2/1/63, advised SAS GRANDY and KUYKENDALL

that in his discussion with SERGAY ASLAMAZIAN, cellist, BROUNOFF

inquired about his uncle named PLATON BROUNOFF, his uncle who had

come to the United States years ago from Russia.

He also mentioned

to ASLAMAZIAN that PLATON BROUNOFF had another brother who may still

be in Russia.

ASLAMAZIAN replied that he does not know the name

PLATON BROUNOFF but the name BROUNOFF sounds familiar to him because

there is a famous actor in Russia with the last name of BROUNOFF.

BROUNOFF stated that he gave ASLAMAZIAN his and his wife's (RUTH G.

BROUNOFF) names and his address.'

BROUNOFF advised that if he should receive any correspon-

dence or otherwise hear from this person or anyone else from Russia,

he would notify the Dallas Office.

Dallas Office indices reflect no identifiable derogatory

Let once ing

BOB KILPATRICK, PLATON BROUNOFF, JOSEPH TALLAL and

LEV ARONSON.

Dallas files reflect some information concerning the person

named VIVIENNE TALLAL WINTERRY, who probably is

a sister of JOSEPH A.

TALLAL. Report of SA LAWRENCE

York; 9/17/46,

known to have corresponded with STEINBERG on several occasions.

Dallas report of SA E. McGUIRE TOWNSEND, 11/12/46, captioned "ARTHUR

GERALD STEINBERG, was, IS-R'', Dallas file 100-8032-2, contains some

- 2 -

18-10033

NW 53025 DooId: 32308675 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 105-1536

identifiable data concerning DAVID WINTERRY and his wife, VIVIENNE

TALLAL WINTERRY.

No investigation was conducted by the Dallas

Office concerning WINTERRY and his wife in 1946, except that/{hown

those two reports.. (This data is mentioned because Mr. ZELMAN

BROUNOFF, confidential source, Dallas Office, identified above, on

2/1/63 stated JOSEPH J. TALLAL, on 1/31/63 mentioned that he has

a sister named VIVIAN who lives in New York City and who planned

to visit him soon.

Dallas file 140-108 reflects that in 1954 a preliminary

investigation was made

concerning BARTRAM KELLEY, who is referred

to in the enclosed memorandum.

That preliminary

investigation in

1954 was under the caption of 'BARTRAM KELLEY, aka; Albert Bartram

Advisory Committee

for Aeronautics, Washington,

file reflects BARTRAM KELLEY'S

that time, BARTRAM KELLEY was Chef Engineer for the Helicoptor

Division

of Bell Aircraft Corporation,

Dallas, Texas. This appears

to be the same position he now holds.

That preliminary investigation

developed insufficient investigation

to warrant further inquiry.

The "Dallas Times Herald," and the "Dallas Morning News,"

daily newspapers,

Dallas, Texas, on 1/27, 30 and 31/63 carried

news articles about the appearance of the Komitas Quartet in Dallas.

The articles identified the composer that accompanied the quartet

as EDWARD MIRZOYAN.

-

700-16093

L -

HH 53025

DocId: 32308675

Page 4

---

