# docid-32298173

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10220-10449

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-68

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det of

1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, PG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/11/1958

9

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SMO, GM, ARRESTED, ASSOC, SEID, ALBERT, INTV, BKG,

REL, IDENT, RCK, OC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4; 10(a)1

Redact

08/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

HH

v9.1

45854

DocId: 32298173

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATÉS GOVERNMENT

TO

:. DIRECTOR, FBI. (92-2918) (92-2914)

DATE:

12/11/58

FROM

PITTSBURGH (92-228) (92-236)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

00: PITTSBURGH

Enclosed are the original and four copies of a letterhead

memorandum containing background information. and citizen-

ship status of ALBERT SEID, FBI #574103, reputed triggermar

for the MANNARINO organization. of New Kensington, Pa.

Copies of this memorandum have already been disseminated

locally to INS.

ALBERT SEID was interviewed at the Pittsburgh Office on

10/27/58, by SAS RICHARD GORDON DOUCE and THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III.

JFK Act

6

JFK Act

The source in paragraph 4, Page 2, is PG 545-0 contacted

DY SA DOUCE.

The source in paragraph 5, Page 2, is confidential source

contacted by SA DOUCE.

The source in

paragraph 6, Page 2, is an informant of the

National Board of Fire Underwirters, Miami, Florida (now

deceased), who furnished information to SA ROD GOERIZ Of

the MBFU.

SA GOERIZ furnished information to SA KENNETH C.

MOORE of the Miami Office on 4/19/57.

The source in paragraph 2,

Page 3, is

former Allegheny County Detective,

contacted by SAS. JOHN

S.

HUGHES and WILLIAM J. ROWE in case entitled, "LEO MOCERI,

was. - FUGITIVE,

SELECTIVE SERVICE.

The source in paragraph 3, Page 3, is JAMES GARROW;

Uniontown, Pa.,

hoodlum and former PCI of the Pittsburgh

offace, contacted by SAS HUGHES and ROWE in the MOCERI case.

"e, in paragraph 4, Page 3, is SLC 257, contacted by

the salt lake city office in July 1951y

one dostEd tech with copy

REC--15 L2 -

3) - Búreau, (Encls. 5)

3 DEC 12 1958

(1-92-2194)

2 - Pittsburgh

1=92-236)

(25922228)-7110

67DEC1840A0

NH 45854

DocId: 32298173

Page 2

12

$4

I COPY FILED IN

---

## Page 3

PG 92-228; PG 92-236 .

JFK Act 6 (4)

The source in paragraph 1, Page 4, is LAC 3116, contacted

by SAS of the Los Angeles Office in the MOCERI case.

SEID was interviewed by SAS HUGHES and JOHN S. PORTELLA on

3/20/52 in the MOCERI case.

The source in paragraph 3, Page 4, is

pittsbursh bondsnan and former pei of the mattsourgh orrice,

professional

contacted. by SA HUGHES in the MOCERI case.

Recoras of the Pittsburgh PD were reviewed during 1951 by

SA HUGHES in connection with the MOCERI case concerning the

arrest of ALBERT and MILTON ZEID for armed robbery of the

Amerita Club, Pittsburgh, Pa.

The source in paragraph 2, Page 5, is JAMES O'CONNOR, former

Chief Identification Officer, Pittsburgh PD, contacted by

SA HUGHES in the MOCERI case.

The source in paragraph 3, Fage 5, is JOHN DEVLIN, former

Allegheny County Deputy Sheriff, contacted by SA HUGHES

in the MOCERI case.

THE MANNARINO BROTHERS HAVE BEEN ARRESTED IN THE PAST FOR

CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS AND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

- 2-

HH 45854

DocId: 32298173

Page 3

---

