# docid-32288286

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

02/14/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING, ILLEGAL INCOME

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

774 45679

DocId: 32288286

Page 1

121

Date:

6/12/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-16-2017

---

## Page 2

FD 36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Date:

2/14/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

SAC

CHICAGO (92-373)

SUBJECT:

GUS

AR

ALEA, aka

index

REE 13

Re Bureau airtel 2/1/61 instructing that the Chicago

Office immediately institute a review of information in

Chicago files pertaining to ALEX to determine whether there

is any possibility of a prosecution in the immediate future.

(1) ALEX is not presently the subject of a sub-

stantive case. No local, state or federal process is currently

outstanding against him.

(2) . A review of all information available to this

office has established only one possibility wherein ALEX

may be vulnerable to wave prosecution within the investi-

gative jurisdiction of the Bureau. In this regard it is

believed that considerable investigation is necessary to

develop this possibility but that if this

information can

obtained,

ALEX may be successfully prosecuted. It is noted

that PCI

has advised that ALEX is an owner oft

National Maintenance Corporation in Chicago. PCI stated

that ALEX does not appear as an owner on any of the records

of the company and that one BEN STEIN is used by ALEX as a

front in the operation of this company. PCI stated that this

company furnishes maintenance help to several large accounts

in Chicago such as the Merchandise Mart and McCormick Place,

JEK Act 6 (4)

- Bureau

Chicago

WER: JAV

REG- 73

95-3182-115

FEB 16 1961

21

196 %

52 - 1102

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45679 DocId: 32288286

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

Chicago's large exposition hall.

PCI stated that this company

recruits its help among the derelicts on Skid Row in Chicago

and that although it receives $17 or $18 per day for each

employee, only $6.50 is given to the employee.

PCI advised

that the company has an arrangement with TOM BURKE, an official

of the Janitors Union in Chicago, whereby BURKE receives

$2,000 per month from the company in return for assistance

obtaining business accounts for the company.

This gives the

company the obvious advantage of not having to pay union wages

or funds into the union welfare fund for each employee.

It

is expected that additional investigation regarding this

situation is necessary in order to establish some connection

with interstate commerce and to develop information concerning

the hidden ownership of ALEX in this company, but it is believed

that it is a situation which merits further investigation in

line with

the objectives set out in referenced Bureau airtel.

information that ALEX is the owner of the S. D. Kaplan Garage

Corporation at 60 East Randolph, using KAPLAN as a front in

this operation

and that ALEX also is a owner of two large

Chicago hotels, the Eastgate

and the St. Clair,

although his

name does not appear on records of these hotels.

It is

believed that if this information can be proved, that ALEX is

susceptible to prosecution for an evasion of income taxes.

JFK Act

6

JEK Law

(4)

11 (a)

-2 -

ridd: 10-92-3182-1121

NW 45679 DocId: 32288286

Page 3

---

