# docid-32327392

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90063-10042

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-5384

Released under the John

' kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Cased:WIT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS

ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32327392

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

JD;

SUBJEC

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

INMENT

Memorandum

FEB 1 0 1965

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-210)

DATE:

SAC, WFO (97-1017) (RUC)

FOREIGN_POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

IS - CUBA

(00: MM)

placece ni

105-147810

(Dineseng)

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies to the Bureau

and two copies to Miami of an LHM together with a memorandum

of evaluation dated and captioned as above. The informant

referred to in the LHM is PEDRO FERNANDO ENTENZA ESCOBAR,

PSI, who furnished the information to SA JOHN G. GOEDTEL.

Informant was unable to recall with certainty

ENCL FILED IN

3

DORY

the source of the information incorporated in the LHM but

believed that he heard it from ROGELIO CISNEROS who hac

recently been in Washington, D. C. The informant describec

CISNEROS as a former teacher in the school system in Camaguey

province, who organized the underground against CASTRO in

that province.

According to the informant, CISNEROS is currently

CONTAiNeD

UNCLASSIFIED

_BY 902825.

ALL INFUNMATION

HEREIN IS

DATE /A-22

employed by a construction company having business in Latin

America.

His purpose for coming to Washington, D.C., was to

contact officials

at the Pan American Union and Inter-American

Development Bank.

WEO files reveal that ROGELIO CISNEROS/DIAZ WaS Ce

a national leader of the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana and

member of_the_NationalDirectorate_from Miami,-Florida, who has

since resigned from that organization.

WFO indices contain no information identifiable

with (FNU) DONEVESTEZ.

+04-047783

Miami might desire to identify DONEVESTEZ through

established sources if that individual is not already known to

the Miami Office for the purpose of interviewing him concerning

helena on with X IRE CASTRO

in Camarioca, Cuba,

in the recent past.

REC- 87.

101-12-211-5384

2

2

Bureau (Enc. 9)

Miami (Enc.2) (RM)

2

WFO

MAR 51-134-8094 Sub A)

JGG: meh

1966)

URE

(6)

ENCLO

18 FEB 14 1966

NW 53074 DocId: 32327392

Page 2

---

