# docid-32295142

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10214-10418

HQ

105-83185-20, 21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, MM

TITLE:

DATE :

02/17/1964

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

EW, BKG, EMP, ASSOC, ACA, CUBAN CAA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T, LHM, MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32295142

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassitat

DATE: 11-11-2017

colestion

of

05C

1

ST.

v.

Sullivan

FI.

Nasca

To.

Ison

Be

almont

Mishr

c.isper

Cillahan -

Conrad

DeL.oach

Evans

Gale

Hosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

[TOR STOTE "

CONFIDENTIAD

ALL

HEREIN IS UNCL

ASICIED

EXCSOT WHERE

SIOWN

OTHERWISE

RE:

March 10, 1964

#14539

EDUARDO JULIO VHITEHOUSE INSUA

Also Know As Edward J. Uhitehouse,

"Teddy" Whitehouse

Reference de made to your menorandon dated

February 10, 1964, your nunber 8/4503, cáptioned "Anti-

Videl Castro Activitles," in which you requested

information concerning

the captioned individual. (e)

Attached fox your intornation is a copy of a

nenorandan dated February 28, 1964,

waich 1s

1 self-

explanatory.

EX-114

We have no objection

to this inforration

being furnished to appropriate security authoritles in

Jamaica. °)

Enclosure

REC- 43

105-83185 mi

RECOND COPTE FREDUIN

1 = London

0./22/94

Classified by spe wres

Declassify on: OADR

55j0

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

VHN: cej: kiw blus

(8)

NOTE:

The subject is Cuban alien who has been involved in

militant anti-Castro activitles.

His name was placed on INS

Iist of persons who had been served with Notice of Prevention of

Departure in 1960.

Subjoct is seeking to enter Jamaica where

he will be

employed by an airline.. Stott requested us to determine

if subject's name still appears in above list and for any

information

which could be passed to Janaican security authorities.

mission over Cuba and that his name appeared on INS black list

MAILED FROM DIVISION FIVE

MAR 11

1964.

MAIL ROOML!

TELETYPE UNIT

SEE CONTINUANCE OF NOTE PAGE TWO

CONFIDENTIAD

DocId: 32295142 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaset under the

John

DATE: 11-14=2017

Assassination Rerends CoLlention set

rY Hotel.

(FOR STOTT] E

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTE:

of individuals who had

I been forbidden to make private flights

IrOn U.S. to Cuba.

Attached meno also contains background

data fron records of INS, including information that he is not

currently included among those Cubans who have been served

vith Notice of Prevention of Departure..

our use of inforation in attached memo. 2

INS has no objection to

CONFIDENTIALI

DocId: 32295142

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992) Ml 7886n

2107 Hote,.

DATE 6 (R4614-738507

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr..

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

FBI

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

SECRET

Mx.

Evans.

Date:

2/28/64

Mr.

Gale...

Vir.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

AIRTEL

Tele. Room.

Via

Miss

Holmes.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Miss Gandy

-ALL-AFORMATION CALANED.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-83185)

MEDEIN IS UNCLASSIFIES

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWA

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2336) (C)

OTHERWISE

RE :

EDUARDO JULIO WHITEHOUSE

INSUA, aka

IS - CUBA

C13 PAI

-NOR ISOTION TO

(00: MIAMI)

10/00/94

"D/OR,

A 1:

UNMATION eBuairtel 2/17/64.

Classified by sp man en

Declassify on: OADR

(JFK,

2-3-98

Enclosed for the Bureau are the original and_5. copies

of a blind memorandum for dissemination to the Britishy

INS, Miami, had no objection to our use of the infor-

mation set forth in the enclosed memorandum. INS advised that

WHITEHOUSE is presently the beneficiary of a private bill which

was introduced in the U. S. House of Representatives, first

session of the 88th Congress, to give him U.S. citizenship.

INS also indicated that they believed WHITEHOUSE is already in

Jamaica in connection with establishment of this airline.

As

noted in enclosed memorandum, WHITEHOUSE has already been

granted a permit to re-enter the U.S., valid to 12/31/64.

(5) coma 5520805

Information from Miami file 26-27590 not included

since it relates to a possible CIA operation in which WHITEHOUSE

is involved.

The source utilized in the memoranden 1s A 660-0. 2

Bureau (Encs:

WMD: g8r ENCLOSUR

(AN-Re) is ends Received in fer

:(4)

Erite un 105=83185-21

13164

s: REC- 43

MAR 121004

EX 114

SIRO

sto.

Approved:

Sent. _

_ M

Per NAX

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32295142 Page 4

---

## Page 5

FeTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11774-2017

1 = MT. Nasca

2/1-7/64

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy.

Airtel

CONFIDENTIAD

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

To:

SAC, Miami, (105-2336)

HEREIN IS URCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WIVER"

From:

Directors Mil 105-1831851 - 20

S20SA

EDUARDO JULIO WHTLEHOUSE LUSUA, aRO

IS • CUBA

BUDED 3/2/64

10/23/94

Classified by_sp 3

Declassify gies)

OADR

Attached is copy of communication dated 2/10/64 received

from MI-5 (British Intelligence), the contents of which are self-

explanatory. (e)

The information in first paragraph of enclosure refers to

list Bureau obtained from INs and furnished Hll-5 after receiving

authorization.

A copy of this list was furnished your office by

letter dated 1/4/61, captioned "anti-fidel Castro Activities. "c,

Check with Ius locally to determine whether subject's

name is still included inithe Notice of prevention of Departure list

and advise Bureau.

Carejully review your files and submit succinct summary of

the pertinent date quailable concerning subject originating with

Bureai sources and informants in memorandum suitable for dissemination

to Britishe() This should be blind memorandum and prepared on unwatere

marked рорет.

me infornation from Bureau sources and informants

should be set forth as is normally done in memorandum prepared for

dissemination; however, in those cases where we would nornally

identify the source,

in this instance, since the daûn is being furre

ished a foreign intelligence agency, such sources should be approp.

riately described in the memorandum but their identities set forth

in the administrative pages accompanying the memorandum.

If any information is incorporated in the memorandum which

originated with another Government agency, specific authorization

must be obtained fron the Government agency involved prior to incor.

porating the material in the memorandum.

If such authorization is

obtained, it must be specifically noted

in the cover communication

accompanying the memorandun.

Enclosure

14)

MAILED 3

CONFIDENTIAD

FEB 1/71964

SEE NOTE PACE TWO.

DAM-FBI

TE FEB 26196

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

ASCA Reguest.

:1/20/28

m

DocId: 32295142 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel to SAC, Miami

RE:

EDUARDO JULIO WHITEHOUSE INSUA, aKa

105 - 83185

O7 EDENTIAL.

In addition to the 105 file mentioned above, see

also

your file 26-27590.

Handle by 3/2/64.

It subJect is still retained on above INS list, determine

from Ins locally unether it has any objection to subject being

denied entry into Jomaice on the basis of this information.

NOTE:

Subject is Cuban who has been involved in militant

anti-Castro activities in post. As a result of these activities,

his nome was placed on INs list of persons who had been served

with Notice of prevention of Departure in 1900. Stott has now

advised us that subject is seeking visa

to enter Jamaica where

he will be employed by an airline.

stott has requested us to

determine if subject's nome still appears in above list.

11s0 interested zn 0121

information which can be passed to Jamaican

security authorities.7

DENTIAL!

• 2 .

DocId: 32295142

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11=14-2017

"X"

CONFIDENTIAL.

: S/4503.

10th February, 1964.

1nt1-T1de1 Castm Activities.

Edwando Julie Whitehorsetset

Please refer to your 13330 dated 4th January 1961, with

which you forwarded a copy of an I.N.S. list of persons who

had been sented with a "Notice of prevention of departure".

2.

Our office

in Jamaica have informed us that an application

dward re virose the Jamaican Goverant for a visa for

born 14th March 1914, to come to Jamaic:

as supervisor of an airline which operates between Jamaica and

Venezuela. Subject is apparently & Cuban and his visa

application was accordingly referred to our office in Kingston.

In view of the fact that subject appeared on the

Immigration and Naturalisation Service's black list, Jamaica

is not keen on having him there if it is still the view of

the United States authorities that he justifies re-tention

on the black list.

We shall be grateful if this can be checked and if we

can be told what information available may be passed to the

Jamaican security authorities.

It would seem that refusal by Jamaica of a Cuban visa

application would not endanger

sources but should Jamaica

decide to do this in respect of a person on the I.N.S. black

list presumably covering approval from I.N.S. should first

be obtained.

We shall be grateful for your comments..

XEROX

REC- 11

MERA 925 83185-20

LEB IQ

815 6/581 18 1964

ORDED COPY FILED

FROM STOTT

FEB 1 0 1964

Mike Mm

2117164

FBI INFO

Classified by sp me.

Declasshy or

OADR

Jim!

DocId: 32295142 Page 7

---

