# docid-32424971

## Page 1

Date :

07/14/98

Page = 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

JCS

RECORD NUMBER

202-10001-10240

RECORDS SERIES

JFK LIBRARY SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOC 241

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2077m w

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

JCS

FROM

TO

TITLE : CINCLANTFLT OPORD 49-62 (REVISED)

DATE : 11/03/62

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS : CUBA PLANNING

DOCUMENT TYPE : MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 03/09/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : Bracketed portions withheld by Joint Staff.

completed by OSD, CIA and State.

Review

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

DATE:..

2016

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214

DocId:32424971 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NAVAL MESSAGE

FRECEDENCE

(ACTION)

TUR SECRET

RELEASED BY

DR 313 BA

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXT NO

(INFO)

(1) CINCONAD ENFORCES THE QUARANTINE ALONG THE ROUTE FROM

NORTHERN EUROPE TO GANDER; RELAYS FLIGHT I FO OF SUSPECT AIRCRAFT

TAPPROACHING CUBA, AND MAKES AVAILABLE FACILITIES AND INTERCEPTORS

TO ASSIST IN INTERCEPTION OF SUSPECT AIRCRAFT APPROACHING CUBA

ALONG THE ROUTES ASSIGNED TO CINCLANT•

(2) CINCSAC PROVIDES LONG RANGE PACER AIRCRAFT FOR FLIGHT

FOLLOWING AND RELAYING INFO TO ASSIST IN INTERCEPTION OF SUS-

PECT AIRCRAFT•

(3) CINCARIB RELAYS FLIGHT INFO ON SUSPECI AIRCRAFT.

(4) CINCAFLANT PROVIDES AUGMENTATION AIRCRAFT AS DIRECTED BY

CINCLANT.

PARA MISSION. WITHOUT DEGRADING READINESS POSTURE, FOR RESPONSE

TO CINCLANT OPLANS 312-62, CONDUCT AN AIK QUAKANTINE OF

CUBA ALONG THE SOUTHERN TRANSATLANTIC AND CARIBBEAN ROUTES IN

- ORDER TO PREVENT SOVIET BLOC NATIONS FROM AIRLIFTING PROHIBITED

MATERIAL INTO CUBA•

PARA EXECUTION•

A• COMCARIBSEAFRON (CIF 84):

(1) CONDUCT AIR QUARANTINE OF CUBA ALONG THE SOUTHERN TRANS-

ATLANTIC AND CARIBBEAN ROUTES WITH U.S. NAVAL FORCES BASED AT

ROOSEVELT ROADS AND PRANG WHEN MADE AVAILABLE BY COMANTDEFCOM.

ORDER TO OBTAIN TEMELY FEIGHT PLAN ENTO OF SOVIET BLOT AIRENADAD IN

HEADING FOR CUBA.

(3) PROVIDE CINCSAC AMPLIFYING COMMUNICATION INFO ASAP.

B. COMCARDIV. 2 (CTF 135):

(1) CONDUCT AIR QUARANTINE OF CUBA ALONG THE SOUTHERN TRANS

ATLANTIC AND CARIBBEAN ROUTES WITH FORCES ASSIGNED INCL AEW AIRCRAFT.

(2) PROVIDE CINCSAC AMPLIFYING COMMUNICATION INFO ASAP.

Xa COORDINATING INSTRUCTIONS.

(1) THIS OPORD EFFECTIVE FOR PLANNING UPON RECEIPT AND FOR

EXECUTION WHEN DIRECTED.

•(2) CINCLANTFLT WILL DESIGNATE SPECIFIC AIRCKAFT FOK INTER-

CEPTION. DESIGNATION WILL BE ACCOMPLISHED BY FLASH MESSAGE WITH

AS MUCH ADBANCE NOTICE AS POSSIBLE.

(3) SUBMIT CONTACT REPORTS WITH FLASH PRECEDENCE. MAKE

AMPLIFYING SITREPS AT INTERVALS NOT TO EXCEED ONE HOUR OF SIG-

NIFICANT INTERCEPTION DEVELOPMENTS BY EMERGENCY PRECEDENCE

MESSAGE, CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL AND ADDRESSED FOR ACIION TO

CINCLANTFLI, INFO JCS, CINCLANT, CINCONAD AND CINCSAC.

(4) DIRLAUTH:

(A) AMONG LANTELT COMMANDERS AS REQUIRED KEEPING

CINCLANTFLI INFORMED.

(B) CTF 84, CIF 135, CINCAFLANT, CINCSAC AND CINCONAD FOR

PLANNING, KEEPING CINCLANT AND CINCLANTFLT INFORMED.

A1

6(XC)

LAI

REPRODUCTION OF THIS DOCUMENT IN WHOLE OR IN PART IS PROHIBITED EXCEPT WITH PERMISSION OF ISSUING OFFICE

CONTROL NO.

CIRCUIT NO.

PAGE

OF

PAGES | TIME OF RECEIPT

DATE TIME GROUP

03007

2

3

032228Z NOV 62

TOP SECRET

(When filled in)

HH 54214 DocId: 32421971 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NAVAL MESSAGE

PRECEDENCE

TOP SECRET

(ACTION)

RELEASED BY

DRAFTED. BY

NAVY DEPARTMENT

EXT. NO.

(INFO)

PARA ADMIN AND LOGISTICS. IAW CINCLANTFLT OPORD CL-YK)• PUBLIC

AFFAIRS GUIDANCE WILL BE PROMULGATED SEPARATELY.

TPARA COMMAND AND

SIGNAL:

A. COMMUNICATIONS IAW LANILT COMMOPLAN AS MODIFIED HEREIN.

B. CINCLANTFLT AT HQ NERVA.

ANNEX A - CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS:

(1) AIR QUARANTINE IS APPLICABLE ONLY TO SUSPECT AIRCRAFT

SPECIFICALLY DESIGNATED BY CINCLANTFLTS

(2) RULES OF ENGAGEMENT AS SET FORTH REF B.

ANNEX B - PROCEDURES FOR SAC AIRCRAFT

1 CINCLANIFLI WILL ENSURE THAT CINCSAC IS INFO ADDEE ON ALL

MESSAGES CONTAINING FLIGHT INFO ON SOVIET BLOC AIRCRAFT DESTINED

FOR CUBA AND TRANSITING THE SOUTHERN ROUTES®

(2) CINCSAC WHEN REQUESTED WILL OPERATE INDIVIDUAL SAC AIR-

TO ASSIST CTF 84 OR CTF 135 AS APPROPRIATE.

(3) BASED ON PAST EXPERIENCE, FLIGHT PLAN AND/OR CARGO INFO

CAN BE EXPECTED AT LEAST 24 HOURS, PRIOR TO COMMENCEMENT OF

ESTABLISHING REQUIREMENTS FOR QUARANTINE ONS, AT WHICH TIME AN

ALERT FOR POSSIBLE QUARANTINE OPNS VILL BE PROMULGATED, IF JUSTI-

FIED. ACTUAL DESIGNATION WILL BE MADE AS SOON THEREAFTER AS

CONDITIONS WARRANT. THE ALERT AND ACTUAL DESIGNATION MESSAGES

WILL BE TRANSMITTED BY DIRECT ON LINE CKT. BETWEEN CINCLANT AND

CINCSAC (J-9511); CONFIRMING MESSAGES WILL BE TRANSMITTED BY

NORMAL COMM CKTS.

(4) CINCLANTFLT DESIGNATES SOVIET BLOC AIRCRAFT. AN ALERT TO

POSSIBLE DESIGNATION WILL BE MADE AT FIRST INDICATION OF SUSPECT

CARGO AND/OR FLIGHT PLAN INFO.

**. (5) CINCLANTFLT REQUESTS

MISSION SUPPORT FROM CINCSAC WHEN

REQUIRED.

(6)

SAC AIRCRAFT INITIALLY PROCEEDS EITHER TO VIC LAT 25 DEG

NORTH, 63 DEG WEST OR VIC LAT 15 DEG NORTH, LONG 75 DEG WEST.

(7) WHEN APPROACHING STATION SAC AIRCRAFT (VOICE CALL DROWSY

1. 2 OR 3, AS APPROPRIATE) ESTABLISHES INITIAL COMMUNICATIONS WITH

CTF 135 (VOICE CALL NEURALGIA) OR CIF, 84 (VOICE CALL CAREFREE) ON

PRIMARY 4740.5(4739) KC OR 8977.5(8976) KG, SECONDARY 268.2 MC.

(8) SAC AIRCRAFT WILL BE VECTORED INTO POSITION FOR PACING,

BY AEW SHORE OR CARRIER BASED AIRCRAFT AS APPROPRIATE,

KEEPING UNDER SURVEILLANCE AND ASSISTING IN INTERCEPT

AT RANGES

BEYOND THAT OF SUPPORTING FIGHTER AIRCRAFT.

(9) UPON COMPL OF MISSION SAC AIRCRAFT WILL RETURN TO BASE

60K

SCP- 1

REPRODUCTION OF THIS DOCUMENT IN WHOLE OR IN PART IS PROHIBITED EXCEPT WITH PERMISSION OF ISSUING OFFICE

CONTROL NO.

CIRCUIT NO.

PAGE

OF

PAGES TIME OF RECEIPT

DATE TIME GROUP

03007

3

3

TOP SECRET

(When filled in)

0322282 NOV 62

HH 54214 DocId:32424971 Page 3

---

