# docid-32401314

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10302-10006

JFK

CIA-DI-FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

11-27-2917

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

TO :

TITLE : CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE BULLETIN

DATE

:11/25/63

PAGES

SUBJECTS : JFK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK-M-02:2 1998.09.22.14:23:03: 326120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

14T 55355

DocId: 32401314

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TOP SECRET DINAR

25 November 1963

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE BULLETIN

CONTENTS

1. North Vietnam - South Vietnam: Hanoi apparently:

#renewing campaign for "neutralization" of South

Vietnam. (Page 1)

2. Indonesia-Malaysia: Djakarta preparing to step

up subversion against Malaysia. (TOP SECRET,

DINAR) (Page 3)

3. East Germany - Czechoslovakia: «East Germany's

relations with Czechoslovakia apparently take fur-

ther turn for worse. (SECRET KIMBO) (Page 4)

4. Notes: Cuba, Yemen; Italy; Communist China -

Australia; Algeria. (Page 5)

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 3

TOP SECRET DINAR

NOTES

NOFORN -

Cuba: Fidel Castro's two-hour speech of 23

November on President Kennedy's assassination re-

flects apprehension that US policy toward Cuba may

become even tougher than in the past. He pointed

out that President Kennedy's alleged promise not to

invade Cuba has been strongly attacked by "reaction-

aries" and stated that the President's death could

lead from a bad situation to a worse one.

Mean-

while, the Cuban defensive military alert, ordered

immediately after the President's death, remains

in effect. (SECRET KIMBO)

four: 759506 Hadar 24 Nor 13(000,

sternal Military Intercys 23-3410165

For the second time this month ai

Egyptian aircraft apparently has attacked Saudi ter-

ritory near the Yemeni border.

JEK Act 6 (1) (B)

a small village was bombed

and strated on 21 November, and the Saudis have

formally complained to the UN Observation Mission

and to the US Embassy. The Egyptian attacks will

probably increase Crown Prince Faysal's determina-

tion to procure a mercenary air force to defend

Saudi Arabia after 4 January, when the latest exten-

sion of the UN Mission's mandate expires. (TOP

SECRET DINAR)

ever: Jaka 543, 24 NantS (CaP; NSA S/85771105-65

+ 853-451508 Sat Die

Italy: (Premier-designate Moro expects that the

proposed government's program will be approved by

the directing bodies of the coalition parties at their

meetings today. Party leaders could then begin ne-

gotiations over the composition of the cabinet, a job

which may take the rest of the week. Socialist Party

chief Nenni intends to force his party's acceptance

of the program even though he is faced with a threat

from the pro-Communist left wing to secede' (CON-

FIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Towel TH C5-5565, 855, 25 lan(CopUFs: 1865-5565854,531

DAILY BRIEF

TOP SECRET DINAR

---

## Page 4

111111111111I

TOP SECRET

1111112

RATERNAL SUR CHAS

NOT RELEASABLE TO

FOREIGN NATIONALS

CONTINUED CONTROL

25 November 1963

SC No. 00281/63

Copy No:

CENTRAL

INTELLIGENCE

BULLETIN

INTELLIGENCE

THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS CODE WORD MATERIAL

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic

downgroding and

declassification

7OP SECRET

---

## Page 5

- TOP SECRET

.-

The Daily Brief of the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE BULLETIN is

produced by the Director of Central Intelligence in consultation

with representatives of departments and agencies of the United

States Intelligence Board.

Back-up material is produced by CIA

with as much consultation with other departments and agencies as

is practicable.

When, because of the time factor, consultation with

the department or agency of primary concern is not practicable,

the brief will be produced by CIA and marked with an asterisk.

Intelligence in this publication is based on all sources, including

COMINT.

Interpretations of intelligence information in this publication rep-

resent immediate and preliminary views which are subject to modi-

fication in the light of further information and more complete

analysis.

Certain intelligence items in this publication may be designated -

specifically for no further dissemination. Other intelligence items

may be disseminated further, but only on a need-to-know basis.

WARNING

This document contains classified information affecting the national

security of the United States within the meaning of the espionage

laws, US Code Title 18, Sections 793, 794, and 798. The law prohibits

its transmission or the revelation of its contents in any manner to

any unauthorized persons, as well as its use in any manner prejudi-

cial to the safety or interest of the United States or for the benefit of

any foreign government to the detriment of the United States.

THIS DOCUMENT MUST BE KEPT IN COMMUNICATIONS

INTELLIGENCE CHANNELS AT ALL TIMES

It is to be seen only by US personnel especially indoctrinated

and authorized to receive COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE

information; its security must be maintained in accordance with

COMMUNICATIONS INTELLIGENCE REGULATIONS.

No action is to be taken on any COMMUNICATIONS INTELLI-

GENCE which may be contained herein, regardless of the advantages

to be gained, unless such action is first approved by the Director

of Central Intelligence.

TOP SECRET

55355

DocId: 32401314

Page

---

