# docid-32293210

## Page 1

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 15c 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10210-10486

• RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2713-366

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/16/1963

9

CM, MISUR, INSTAL, TOWN HOUSE MOTEL

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/03/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC BROCHURE, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32293210

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Deal" under the Join F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection dot of 1992 111 use P40r totes.

11-71-2017

UNAL FORM NO. 10

MA! 1962 EDITION

110-106

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR,

FBI (92-2713)

ATTENTION:

ELECTRONIC SECTION

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (66-1230)

SUBJECT:

CARLOS MARCELLO, aka.

DATE:

12/16/63

JUNE

6

Re Bureau letter 12/10/63 granting authority

to conduct a survey to determine the feasibility of a

misur installation at the Town House Motel, Lafayette,

La.; and New Orleans FD 142 dated 12/16/63.

been advised that CARLOS MARCELLO, believed to be the

"'boss" of La Cosa Nostra in the New Orleans area, goes

to Lafayette, Louisiana, every four to six weeks

where

individuals of Italian extraction have been observed

visiting MARCELLO and conferring with him in his motel

room.

The manager of the Town House Motel, an old

and close friend of Senior Resident Agent RICHARD A.

SMALIWOOD, has

made every effort to cooperate with

this

office in

the coverage of MARCELLO's activities while he

is in Lafayette.

The manager, Mr. THOMAS T. MOORE, has

made accommodations available

to MARCELLO as a favor to

this office when he has had his motel completely filled

with guests.

A survey of the facilities at the Town House

Motel has been made and Mr. MOORE has made available

two table lamps, which are similar to all of the table

lamps used in each room and suite in the motel. He has

turned these table lamps over to this office for our

exclusive use for as long as we desire to use them.

He has stated that no matter

what room or suite in the

motel MARCELLO occupies, the lamps in our possession can

be quickly substituted for the lamps already in these

rooms and suites prior to the time MARCELLO occupies

premises:

These, yamps

will be retained in Lafayette

мет

nica

92-2233616083

2) - Bureau (RM)

örleans.

1 - New

FGB: sab

(5)

lick ta

12-24-63 8 DEG 191962,

FICLOSURE

IAN 13 1964-0

DocId: 32293210

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

. DATE:. 11-14-2017

NO 66-1230/sab

In view of the cooperation of Mr. MOORE and

due to the fact that MARCELLO never makes reservations

in advance, it is felt this misur can best be effected

through the use of mutt radio microphones and/or wasp

plugs.

Attached is a brochure of the Town House Motel

in Lafayette, Louisiana. Mr. MOORE has advised that

MARCELLO always requests Unit 104 or some similar unit

when he is alone. If MARCELLO is accompanied by his

wife and daughter, he requests Units 120 and 121 or

Units 375 and 377. Mr. MOORE has advised that whenever

he makes accommodations available to MARCELLO he will

either give us adjacent accommodations or accommodations

near MARCELLO's accommodations.

In connection with this matter, the following

equipment is requested:

1. Mutt radio microphones installed in the

lamps,

which will be forwarded to the Laboratory under

separate cover.

In the event the Laboratory is not in

a position to install Mutts in the lamp bases, sockets,

or elsewhere on the lamp, it is requested that the Laboratory

furnish this office with

two Wasp plugs and installation

will be made by this office when needed.. For the infor-

mation of the Laboratory, in the event the glass parts

of the lamps are broken,

replacements are available.

It is pointed out that the purple lamp is utilized on

a table in the immediate vicinity of a couch and lounge

chair in the room at the motel and the grey lamp is utilized

on a table between two beds next to the telephone. It

is believed that in the event the adjacent room is not

available when it is needed, it is felt that equipment,

as noted above, will provide coverage of the conversation

in the motel room.

2. A Vega Receiver for use in monitoring the

above-mentioned equipment.

3. Two Termites.

4. One Magnecord PT-6-BA2H Binaural Tape Recorder.

DocId: 32293210 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATÈ: 11-11-2017

NO 66-1230/sab

One Mite Microphone. This will be used for

installation in the common wall Muzac recepticles which

will give desired results in the event adjacent room

facilities are available at the motel when installation

is needed.

3 *

DocId: 32293210

Page 4

---

