# docid-32355920

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10098-10252

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

Released under the John

. kennedu

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: MEXI

TO

:DIRECTOR

TITLE

OPERATIONAL

- TRAVEL OF POLISH NATIONALS

DATE

: 11/14/1963

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS :

TRAVEL

POLISH NATIONAL

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/24/96

COMMENTS : JFK32 : F11 :

1996.06.24.18:51:19:560100

[R]

ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10098-10252

HH 53199

DocId: 32355920

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SEETIT

PROCESSING ACTION

XXX

I MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO

INFO.

Chiefe SAS

-Chief, WHD

Chief of Station, JMNAV

NO INDEXING REQUIP-O

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK.

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico cli

MICROFILM

SUBJECT

TYPIC - DECRIP - Contact with Roberto *SAT42, Cuban photocrapher

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

During his most recent trip to Mavane, Dachap establishod contro

with & Cuban photographer nanca Roberto DIZAS, & "Patrio o Muster upe of

revolutionist who is now residing in Havana where he works for the newsracer

Revolucion. SALAS clalmed to have been working in New Yoch City during tho

insurrectionary days of Fídel CASIRO, In 1959 he was arrested by American

authorities, accused of illegal carrying of firsama and espionage activities.

He says that the House Committee on Un-American Activitios zoroed in on hin

at this time. He was released on $5:000 bail postedby Cuban Anbaccador (Enu)

BISBE, and soon therzafter leit the country, jumping baii. He admito to

having been guilty of

just acout everything ho was charged with.

Fron: the

US ha went to Guatemala and was in that country al the tine an 11l-faed

CASTRO-organized exocditionary force invadeú lonema.

2. SALAS put on an exhibit of his photographs in Havana during DEGRiP's

presence there and insisted

upon taking DECRID to see his work. The princed

exhibit program revealed thet SALAS vas born in New York in 1910 of Cuban

parents, studied in the US and Cuba, Worked as a photographer, worked fuc

the revolutionary newspaper Sierra lesara in New Yort, and later returned

to Cuba where he now works 10r the newspaper Bovolucion and thu magazine

Cuba.

Willard Co CUrTiS

Distribution:

2 - C/SAS

2 - C/WHD

2 - COS WAVE

2 - Files

CRAP? 1

Congratlar and

dare indication

t4.09041990914

15683

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMGER

AMMA 22477

CLASSIFICATION

BEERBI

DATE

12 November 1963

HOS FILE NUMBER

203 - 223735

HH 53199 Docia: 32355920 Page 2 3:

---

