# docid-32340882

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10221-10275

RECORD _SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 185-789-1311

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/11/1977

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT:

OBA, INTV, NAVARRETE, RICARDO MORALES, ASSA, LETELIER, ORLANDO,

POLITICAL ASYLUM

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

08/17/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32340882

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AL

WF0021 13122227

PP HI MM NK NY

Dep. AD

Asst. Dir.:-

Adm. Se:

Crim. Inv

DE*AF

1122227 MAY 77

/ FM WASHINGTON FIELD (185-425)

MAY TI

RECEIVED

LET SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF TAVESTIDATION

COMMONICATIONS SECTION

(P)

Fin. & Pe.

Icient...

Intell

Laborator!

Legal Cou:

Flem. & In:

Fed. Mgnt.--

AT-L INFORMATION CONTAINEE

Opec. Inv.-.

I TO DIRECTOR

1185-789) PRIORITY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCERS

Tech. Servs

•ining

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

bio Affs. C

MIAMI PRIORITY

"hone R-

NEWARK PRIORITY

Sp 16510m

ector's Sec

NEW YORK (185-576) PRIORITY

BT

CrAC

20.94

lassified by SIS Ma

SE CI ION 1 0F2

Declasshy on: 0008/57k

CHILBOM ;

PFO-MURDER; EID-00J; 100 :WASHI INGTON FIELD)

ALL PARAGRAPHS CONTAINED HEREIN ARE CLASSIFIED

"CONFIDENTIAL."

ON MAY IA, 1977, BICARDOAMORALES

NAVARRETE AN OFFICIALS

OF. THE INTELLIGENCE SERVICE OF VENEZUELA DISIP), WAS

6-pm

INTER VIEWED IN MIAMI, FLORIDA FOR APPROXIMATELY THREE AND

5 disse

A HALF HOURS BY SPECIAL AGENTS (SAS) L. CARTER CORNICK AND

413317

ALFRED E. SEDDON OF WASHINGTON FIELD, AND SA OVEDIO CERVENTES

OF THE MIAMI OFFICE. MORALES PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING

TN'FUP:19T ION PRESTONG ENE ASSAMATIA DE PALAND LETELI REE

delayed to

Bonn

Bein, horior

XEROXI

ti:.

131-101544

JUN 1

1977

Canaddo, Baudi

REC- 10A

4 JUN 51977 e

SECRET

#32 0558 /85-782=-13#

UNRECORDER COM

25 1977

DocId: 32340882 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: - 11-14-2017

PAGE FOUR WE 185-425 MONT.

WITH REGARDS TO THE JUNE, 1976, MEETING IN THE DOMINICAN

REPIBLIC OF THE ANTICASTRO CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION, MORALES

STATED THAT LUIS POSADA ATTENDED THE MEETING AS AN AGENT [5J

FOR DISIP.

MORALES CONTINUED THAT. UPON

POSADA'S RETURN TO

CARACAS, D ISI LEARNED THAT JOS

*DIONISIO

SUAREZAHAD ATTENDED

THE MEETING AS THE REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE CNM. MORALES

CONFIRMED

THE PRESENCE ÀT THE MEETING OF ORLANDO BOSCH,

ROBERT CABALLO, AND ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA., MORALES FURTHER

STATED THAT FRANK CASTRO, WHO WAS RESIDING IN THE DOOMINICAN

PEPUBLIC AT THE IIME, WAS IN FACI THE INDIVIDUAL WHO HAD

ORGANIZED THE. MEETING, AND THAT IT MAD TAKEN PLACE WITH THE.

KNOWLEDGE AND BLESSING OF THE GOVERNMENI OF THE DOMINICAN

REPUBLICO POSADA ALSO REPORTED THAT ALL OF THE GROUPS

ATTENDING, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE CNM, WERE IN FAVOR

OF CONFINING ANY ACIIONS AGAINST THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO

AREAS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STAATES• POSADA ALSO REPORTED

THAT ACTIONS AGAINST THE CUBANA AIRLINES WERE DISCUSSEDD

AND THAT AS A RESULT, SUBSEQUENNT ACTIONS WERE TAKEN. U

MORALES CONTINUED THAI ON THE EVENING OF MAY 9, 1977, M

CRETL

i..

DocId: 32310882 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:. 11-14-2017

PAGE FIVE WE 185-425

HE WAS TALKING TO FRAK CASIRO, WHO IS NOW RESIDING IN MIAMI,

FLORIDA. MORALES STATED THAT CASTRO ADVISED HIM DURING THE

TELEPHONE CONVERSATION THAT DURING THE MEETING, JOSE

DIONISIO SUAREZ MADE THE STATEMENT THAT THE CNM HAD ONE

CONTRACT WITH THE CHILEANS IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH STILL

HAD TO BE CARRIED OUT, AND THIS WAS THE LETELIER KILLING. U

MORALES CONTINUED THAT IT WAS HIS UNDERSTANDING THAT ONLY

THE CNM MAINTAINED CONTACT WITH DINA AND. HE THEN WENT TO

DETAIL THE TRAVEL OF THE NOVO BROTHERS TO CHILE IN

DECEMBER OF 1974.

REGARD ING THE ABILITY OF DINA TO CARRY DUT A POLITICAL

ASSASSINATION, MORALES FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION:4

MORALES STATED THAT ORLANDO OTERO ARRIVED IN CARACAS

AS AN ANTICADRO CUBAN EXILE, A KNOWN BOMBER, AND A FUGITIVE

FROM SISTICE, AND IHAT DURING HIS STAY HE WAS RECRUITED BY (SJ

DISIP|TO PENETRATE DINA, MORALES STATED THAT OTERO WAS

BEING HANDLED BY A CHILEAN ARMY MAJOR ASSIGNED TO DINA,

WHO NAME HE COULD NOI RECALL, AND THAT AFTER A SHORT WHILE,

DINA ASSIGNED OTERO THE TASK OF ASSASSINATING CARLOS PASCUAL U

"(P)

SECRET

301a9

DocId: 32340882 Page 4

---

## Page 5

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

•DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE SIX WF 135-425€

TAL

ALLENDE AND HIS WIFE, IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, DURING THE

VISIT OF FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER TO

THAT

COUMIRY. MORALES CONTINUED THAI DIERO SUPPLIED I SIP ISH

SECREM

AN ENTIRE PACKAGE WHICH HAD BEEN PREPARED BY DINA FOR HIS

USE IN CARRYING OUT THE ASSASSINATION. THE PACKAGE, ACCORDING

TO MORALES, CONTAINED PHOTOGRAPHS, COMPLETE DETAILSS OF THE

MOVEMENTE DE BOTHY INTENDED VICTIMS, AND DEIAILS OF THETA

DAILY ROUTINES. MORALES STATED THAT DISIP IS STILL IN

POSSESSION OF COPIES OF THIS REPORT AND THAT THEY ARE BEING

PEEN TUE FORETO" MINISTRY PULLERGIN CAPACAS. MOPALES

STATED HE COULD RECALL NO FURTHER DETAILS OTHER THAN THE FACT

THAT THE DEVICES TO BE USED IN THE ASSASSINATION WERE ALREADY

IN PLACE IN SAN JOSE, AND HE WAS GIVEN INSTRUCIIONS AS TO

WHO TO CONTACI AND A DEADLINE FOR CARRYING OUT THE ASSASSINATION,

SPECIFICALLLY, A FIVE DAY PERIOD. MORALES CONTINUED THAT

OTERO WAS THE ONLY INDIVIDUAL EVER CAPABLE OF SUPPLYING

"HARD INTELLIGENCE" REGARDING DINA'S FOREIGN TARGETS, AND

THAT OTERO WOULD HAVE BEEN IN A POSITION TO GAIN FURTHER

INFORMATION HAD THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT NOT PRESSUREDV

SECRET

DocId: 32310882 Page 5

---

