# docid-32346367

## Page 1

•Date: 12/01/04

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD

NUMBER

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

CIA

104-10062-10108

80T01357A

• DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

FBI

HOOVER,

EDGAR J.

DIRECTOR CIA

ROMULO BETANCOURT FOREIGN POLICY POLITICAL MATTERS-

VENEZUELA NEUTRALITY ACT SPECIAL INQUIRY- CIA.

DATE : 02/15/1950

PAGES

3

SUBJECTS :

FOREIGN

POLICY

VENEZUELA

BETANCOURT, ERN

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

CONFIDENTIAL

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

07/13/93

JFK9: F71: 1993.07.13.15:00:36:810410 : COORDINATED

WITH FBI 8/26/99; POSTPONEMENTS TAKEN BY FBI

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10062-10108

HH 50529

DocId: 32346367 Page 1

---

## Page 2

VICTORY

Uniteà States Department of Justire

Hederal Burrau of Inurstigation

ilashington, D. I.

IN REPLY, FLEASE REFER TO

FILE NO. -

CONFIDENTIAL

BY SPECIAL LESSENGER

Date:

February 15, 1950

To:

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

2210 E Street, N.?.

Washington, D.C.

ASHY

6 1971

Attention: Colonel Robert Schow

RO.J0

Iron: J. Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject:

ROLITTO

DETAICSUHI

FOREIGN POLITICAL NATTERS - VENEZUELA

NEUTRALITT ACT

SPECIAL INCUIRY - CIA

Reference is made to your request dated October 12, 1949,

your control nuncer 22174 and to this Bureau's communication

dated

January 10, 1950, enclosing copies of reports on the activities of

Romulo Betancourt and other nembers of the Áccion Democratica Party.

There is enclosed herewith one copy of the following

investigative reports prepared in response to your request referred

to above.

Report of Special Agent Robert J. Ahsens dated January 23,

1950, at San Juan, Puerto rico.

Report of Special Agent Joseph T. Genco dated January 25,

1950, at New York City.

This Bureau's Liaison agent in Ottava, Canada, has checked

with the Royal Canadian !lounted Police who furnished the folloring

Infornation pertinent to this investigation.

rile have had our records checked for infornation pertsining

Greenspur,

we have no infornution on file pertaining to any of these individuals.

patt

att: 2,

N'SM

201661-8

ITH 50529

DocId: 32346367 Page 2

# 4249

---

## Page 3

¡'Infornation we have of Romulo Betancourt is to the effect

that he is one of a group of l4 Latin-inerican newspapermen who visited

Canada fron sugust 6 to 10, 1943, for the purgose of inspecting various

it that time, Betancourt vas said to be a writer on

political and economic matters for the Venezuelan newspaper '¿nora.*"

The Bureau's liaison agent further advised thet in discussing

this matter with the officers at the ROP Headquarters, the later stated

that it toild be a nost difficult task to endeavor to trace any funds

that night be deposited in banks or in safe deposit boxes in Canada

or transfers of money fron Canada either to the linited States or

other country vithout having nore specific information than that which

was furnished. The RC:P have. no knoledge of any accounts in Janada

which night have been opened by Betancourt or those associated with hir.

They feel that the circularization of the Canadian banks without more

specific incormation would be impracticable and almost certainly

unproductive.

The RIP is hesitant to inquire of other 'overment

departments relative to this matter in an effort to trace the funds

mithout more specific idertifying data.

egertly a confidential and reliable source ascertained tha

lose Horacio Podrigez, a Doninican Republic national presently residin

in ruba, was scheduled to go to l'exico City by plane on or about

January 10, 1950. The source stated his mission vas to attent to

repurchase the plane contiscated by the lexican Goverrment on or about

July 18, 1919, (It is to be noted that apparently the pline referred io

was one originally purchased in the hited States under a valid excort

license and was confiscated by the lexican Governnent when it vas found

to have been used in the revolt of June 19, 1949, against the Dominican

Republic.)

The above source further advised that Solis and Lopez Clarice

were then recorted to be in the United States to rake arrangements for

the purchase of planes, parts and probably arns for the Venezuelan

Denocratic Action Group.

The source was unable, however, to adrise

as to their present whereabouts in the United States but

ascertained

that if they were unsuccessiul in their mission the Guatenalan Government

has offered to purchase necessary ar raterials for the Group fron the

United States.

The. source indirectly ascertained that tie Caribbean

Legion ana the Venezuelan Group had been in contact with Marion Rozelle

(Finlsy and Jessie, Vickers for over a month but was unable to ascertain

the nature of their business.

HH 50529

DocId: 32346367 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Another confidential and reliable source has advised that

on December 20, 1549,

dalson broia arrited in Favana,

cube, by place

Iron Lexico City, and registered ot the Hotel Macional. The source

steted Brown rerrined in Havena until Decerber 26, 1949, when he

returned to l'exico City, by plane checking out of his hotel without

paying his bill. The source ascertained that Brom did not possess

a passport and visited the l'exican Consulate in Havana, for the

purpose of obtaining a lexican Tourist Card.

In order

to establish

his identity, Broin exhibited a liar Department Intelligence Division

Card funber f-165359, which card indicated he had hold the rani of liajor.

Broin was issued a lexican Tourist Card lumber 4064.

The source stated it was suspected that while Broin was in

Havana, he mey have been in contact with one EugeniolDe Sosa. According

to this source, De Sose has been under investigation because of suspected

activity in connection with the illogel introduction of arms into cuba

for the possible purpose of planning en armed revolt against the Goverument

of President Carlos Prio Socarras.

The source also advised that on Jenuary 6, 1950, Robert GDrake,

President of the Drake Shipping Conpany,

Incorporated, 52 Boardiay,

New York City, was in Havana, and inasauch as he is the employer of

Broin, paid the latter's bill at the Sotel Hacicnal.

Drake indicated that his firm as a foreign freight forwarding company

and disclained any kno::ledge that Eroim mas engaged in illegal arms

deals.

As indicated in this Bureau's letter of January 10, 1950,

it would be appreciated if you could furnish more specific infornation

as to the location of the alleged iunds reported to be deposited

by the Accion Democratica in Canada and the United States. The

investigation in this matter is continuing.

The information contained hereir is furnished to you

confidentially and is not intonded for further dissenination.

Enclosures

MH 50529 DocId: 32346367 Page

---

