# docid-32339845

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HoteT.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/30/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90152-10064

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-152711-41

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MM

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/30/1974

3

ANTONIO VECIANA

•DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32339845

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

(SECRET

¡CASE 1

4-167

1-116 (S

DATE: April 30, 1974

Continuing investigation into the circumstances surrounding the

homicide of JOSE E. de la TORRIENTE which occurred on wednesday,

April 24, 1974, in Dade County, Florida.

8/278/98

CLASSIFIED BY: 56683

REASON: 1.5

(C.0

DECLASSIFY ON: XL.

Classifie

Deckstly ess:

DocId: 32339845

Detectives R. J. Diaz and R. Gonzalez received the following

information from CI TIS 0052 on wednesday, April 24, 1974, at

approximately 9:00 p.m.

C.I. stated that many of the incidents which are occurring

lately

seem to be a repetition of the activities of ORLANDO BOSCH and his

associates circa 1968. On January 23, 1968, Patria newspaper

issued the first communique of cuban power signed by "Ernesto".

("Ernesto" was later identified by a Federal Grand Jury as being

ORLANDO BOSCH)

In that communique 'ERNESTO" denounged DI. ENRIQUE HUERTAS, JOSI

E.

de la TORRIENTE and MANUEL ARTIMES as being thieves, stealin

from the cuban exiles.

It has been learned in the past week that MANUEL ARTIMES has

allegedly received a letter from "CERO" listing ARTIMES as one of

Ithe next victims. DI. HUERTAS has told his associates he was going

to a medical convention in Atlanta, Georgia, although this writer

learned from a reliable source that Dr. HUERTAS is in Miami,

hiding from BOSCH.)

f.I. further stated that assuming BOSCH was involved in the

WORRIENTE homicide directly or

indirectly, there are very few

people whom BOSCH would trust to carry out such an act.

Among those trusted by BOSCH and who, according to the c.I.. are

capable of carrying out such a mission are BARBARO BALAN GARCIA,.

JESUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ, aka "EL ISLENO", JOSE DIAZ MOREJON, aka

"TONY PRIETOY and MARCOS RODRIGUEZ RAMOS (presently in federal

prison).

Accoraing tontha.c.mands.federal.sourcesin1972=MAX

plan tokidsiDer CasTrosinchieWilE CASTRo was visitingathat

Countrys roNTR needed wo men for his plan so he approached

DIEGO. MADINASOFAlphas66sandsaskedshim.forstwomen

R 2l 52

Classified i SPbBIAGC

ALL INSORMATION CONTAINEI

Declassity on

DADR "/26/84

105-152711-41

HERCIN IS UNOEASGUFIED

EXCEPT WAITE SHOWN

SECRET

Page 2

EXCIDSURE

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

(SECRET!

4-167

4-116,

-2-

April 30, 1974

MEDIA produced.DoMiNGUEZawho.kadjustgottensoutoFjai.tand

wanted.to.doanytmingurandsbomIngurz-suggestedsRODRIGUDZ pewho

was legealy arugatrewatthestames

LESTER

apped DOMINGUEZzandReDRIGuEZwithfalsespress-papess

and made

he necessary arrangements icht ferthrough antonte

(VECTAN

asa membersoftlegundortuenteNacional.delEscambray

Alohaz66.Manda.veryneloserassociate.0fouFSNIKmhhSNtkstod

ser

longatermesentences.fomdistributionssor

Peo

VECIANA arranged several "safe-houses" for DOMINGUEZ and RODRIGUEZ

and rented an apartment for them in Chile.

POMINGUEZ and RODRIGUEZ traveled to Caracas, Venezuela, from

Miani and from Caracas to Chile. Approximately three weeks after

they arrived in Chile, RODRIGUEZ was admitted to a hospital with

apendicitis and the plan was not carried out.

DOMINGUEZ and RODRIGUEZ went back to Caracas where RODRIGUEZ

turned himself into the American Embassy in Caracas and was later

sent to federal penitentiary in Atlanta, Georgia. DOMINGUEZ

returned to Miami.

Approximately four months ago, an inquiry was made to the Miami

office of the F.B.I. by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police about"

JESUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEd.

The RCMP stated that they had received

information indicating that DOMINGUEZ might attempt to assassinate

Russia's Premier Leonid Brezhner who was visiting Canada at that

time.. F.B.I. agents attempted to locate DOMINGUEZ with negative

kesülts and

ceased trying to locate him after BREZHNEV left

Canada.

According to C.I., DOMINGUEZ is presently staying with HUMBERTO

FEBLES and FEBLES' brother. DOMINGUEZ is driving an unknown type

Nehicle with New Jersey license plates. DOMINGUEZ has been known

to associate with narcotics figures and also to have been

volved in meat trucks hijackings.

DOMINGUEZ' close associates at this time are JOSE DIAZ MOREJON and

BARBARO BALAN GARCIA.

TENDET

DocId: 32339845

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: e11-14-2017

4-167

4-116

-3-

'SECRET

April 30, 1974

DIAZ and BALAN

were arrested because of their involvement with

ORLANDO BOSCH'S

Cuban. Power group in 1968 and are also close

associates of LESNIK and BOSCH.

Given the background of DOMINGUEZ in prior attempts to assassinate

political figures and his definite connection with BOSCH and

LESNIK (who have been named by other sources as having been in-

volved in the TORRIENTE homicide "behind the scenes"), it is

this writer's opinion that DOMINGUEZ should be looked at as a

suspect in the TORRIENTE case.

Investigation

continyes.

PREPARED BY:

R.T.

Dia

R. J.

DIAZ Office]

R. GONZALEZ, OffiCer

Crimin

AC

IviSDUnit

APPROVED

BY

REVIEWED BY:

DE REMER,

Sergeant

iminal Activist Unit

Paley

T.

J.U POLCYN

supervisor

Tactical Investigation Section

RJD/ mm

SECRETI

DodId: 32339845 Page 4

---

