# docid-32298699

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/24/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10222-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

166-925-9, 10, 11, 12

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 45927 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NK

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/01/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

APR, ASSOC, SABATO, MATTY, OPERATE, CARD GAME,

PLANNING RAID, TE, ASSOC, GENOVESE, VITO, FEDERAL

PENITENTIARY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC RGM, NOTE, A/T, MEMO

v9.1

HHT 45927

DocId: 32298699

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1832 BOITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-925)

SAC, NEWARK (166-208)

DATE:

7/2/65

THOMAS EBOLI,

ITAR. GAMBLING

aka. ET AL

RE: Newark letter dated 6/8/65

0-1 dated 6/29/65

The information in the Newark file concerning cap-

tioned matter has been furnished by Criminal Informants and

Highly Confidential Sources.

Newark has conducted no open investigation in this

case, since there has been no indication of violation of

Federal Gambling Statutes.

Further reason for no investigation

is that New Jersey State Police contemplates a raid of the game

as soon as their investigation justifies that action.

Two Newark Informants (NK 2381-C-TE and NK 2181-C)

have attended this game in the past and efforts are being made

to have one of these sources visit the game again in order

to assist the New Jersey State Police in obtaining a search

warrant.

In view of no apparent Federal violation and the

Lact that information avallable precludes submission of an

Intelligent report in the 166 classification, this case 1e

being placed in a closed status.

This matter will be re-opened as a 162 - IGA class-

1fication and a report will be submitted by 7/16/65/

dai

= .

Bureau

Newark

(1 = 162-NEW)

BDW: hds

(4)

131

58 JUL 13 1965

HN 45927 • DooId: 32298699 Page 2

REG 73

EX. 100

166-924-12

JUL 6 1965

---

## Page 3

-36. (Rev. 5÷22-64):

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

F. B 1

Date:

6/8/65

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-925)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, NEWARK (166-208)

THOMAS SBOLI, aka.

etal

•ITAR - GAMBLING

Re Newark radiogram, 4/29/65.

This matter has been discussed with Major FRANK

HALLEY, Deputy Superintendent, New Jersey State Police,

on several occasions since date

...of referenced communication.

HALLEY stated that his men have

noticed little.or no

activity in the vicinity of the game in recent weeks. He

stated that the raid in East Newark, N.J., during April,

may have caused

the operators of the game to discontinue

temporarily or at least to increase security precautions.

HALLEY stated that he plans to have his men spot-check

the location on a periodic basis for any pertinent activity.

Newark plans to have NK 2381-C verify the

continued operation of the game

and also to attend the

gane in order to obtain details of the physical layout

of the building.

Informant is presently ill, but is expected to

handle above assignment in the near future.

The Bureau will be kept advised of pertinent

developments.

3-Bureau

I-New York (166-512)

3-Newark

(1-137-834)

Ic c

w..r:

BDW: dm

BUN 1 Sealedent in Charge

45927 Doyid:/32298699. Page 3

88 10 166-215

REG 61

8 , JUN 9.

1965

//

Sent

Per

---

## Page 4

4-5 GRes

12-

14-64)

• AIRGRAM

DECODE DOSOPY

• CABLEGRAM

X*RADIO

• TELETYPE

Callahan

Consdda

Felt

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

R-66

URGENT 4-29-65

TO DIRECTOR AND NEW YORK

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON-ENCODED

FROM NEWARK 291550

Str

THOMAS EBOLI, AKA., ET AL. ITAR-GAMBLING.

166-925-9

RE: NEWARK LETTER JULY 1, 1964.

ON APRIL 21 LAST, MAJOR FRANK HALLEY, DEPUTY SUPERINTENDENT,

NUSTATE POLICE, ADVISED THAT HE HAS TWO UNDERCOVER MEN

ASSIGNED TO AN INVESTIGATION OF INSTANT MATTER. HALLEY

: STATED THAT HE HAS BEEN AWARE OF THE EXISTENCE OF THIS GAME

FOR SÈVERAL MONTHS, BUT THUS FAR HIS MEN HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO

GAIN ADMISSION TO THE GAME IN ORDER TO OBTAIN THE EVIDENGE

NECESSARY FOR A RADD.

DURING THE EVENINGS OF APRIL 25 AND 26 LAST, NEWARK 2381 C

TE ATTENDED THE GAME AND ESTIMATED THAT APPROXIMATELY 70 PLAYERS

WERE PRESENT.

:ON APRIL 29 INSTANT, HALLEY WAS ADVISED THAT AN

INFORMANT OF THIS OFFICE WAS IN RECENT ATTENDANCE AT THE

GAME AND THAT AN AGENT OF THIS OFFICE WOULD BE WILLING

TO FURNISH AN AFFIDAVIT TO THE EFFECT THAT AN FBI INFORMANT HAS

OBSERVED A CRAP GAME IN PROGRESS AT THE PERTINENT LOCATION

IN UNION CITY, NU.

HALLEY STATED THAT HE WILL DISCUSS THIS MATTER WITH

ASSISTANT NU ATTORNEY GENERAL EVAN W. JAHOS, THIS DATE, AND

ADVISE THIS OFFICE AS TO THE POSSIBILITY OF A RADO ON THE GAME

REC-9, 166225 did

MAY I 1965

58 MAY 1 7 1965

(AH 45927

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DooId: 32298699 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

‹ UNITED STATES GO

"MENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (166-925)

DATE:

7/1/64

FRO

SAC, NEWARK (166-208) (C)

SU

THOMAS EBOLI, aka.; ET AL

ITAR --' GAMBLING-

Union City, New Jersey, Police Department, advised SA JAHES

F• SNIDER, that MATTY SABATO has operated & card game at 606.

immediate area.

ROMANO stated that he has received a number of

complaints concerning SABATO's gane and attempted to catch

the game in operation.

However, there are four doors to

enter before reaching

the game and by that time the players

are either sitting around watching TV or playing pinochle.

ROMANO further stated that his investigation has

disclosed no indication of anyone from out of state.

participating in SABATO's game.

On 4/24/64, MATTY SABATO was interviewed at his

residence, 519 Fighth Street, Union City. New Jersey, by

SAS FRANK H. DONNELLY and JAMES F• SNIDER in connection with

another investigation. SABATO stated he is President and

only officer of the Sportsman Club, Inc., 606 Paterson Plank

Road, Undon CIty, N.J. He said that he operates card games.

at this club on Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday, where seven

card stud poker is played. He never shoots dice and only

individuals known to him are admitted to the game. All players

are fron the Union City and Jersey City area.

SABATO advised

that he was aware of the FBI's jurisdiction in these matters.

SABATO is presently under development as a PCI of

Newark.

On 5/26/64, Detective Captain GEORGE ROMANO, Union

city, New versey, Police Department,

advised SA JOHN Jo

CREAMER, JR. that

his men have been to the Sportsman Club on

several occasions but have been unable to catch anyone

shooting crap.

'3

• Bureau

REC- 52 / 66-

935

1 - 92-5962 (THOMAS EBOLI)

3 :

New

York

I JUL 6 1964

1: 92-1569 (THOMAS EBOLI),

TUE 13962-103 CTROMAS KOLA

JJC/jtm

HH

4592/

DOYl: 32298699 Paye

197

UNRES

---

## Page 6

NK 166-206

NK 2181-C was contacted on 5/22/64 and NK 2288 C

on 6/26/64 and they were unable to furnish any information

that there is any interstate activity involved in the game

in the Sportsman Club.

Newark has conducted no active investigation of

this case since there is no evidence of an interstate violation

and since the Union City Police Department and New Jersey State

Police have been conducting investigation in this matter.

This case is being considered closed until such time

as information is received indicating a Federal violation.

The matter is being followed in the separate AR investigations

of

subjects.

• 25-74-700

Jay o. 19nu3

НЫ 45927

DocId: 32298699

Page

6

---

