# docid-32282083

## Page 1

Date: 10/05/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10243

RECORDS SERIES :

LETTER

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R-2971

Released under the John

"• kennedy

issassination Record.

Collection Aet of 1991

(44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : JOHNSTON, JAMES H.

TO : ELDER, WALTER

TITLE :

RE: CIA ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING DOH CURTIEN FOR

. HIS TESTIMONY

DATE : 04/20/76

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

CHURCH COMMITTEE

SHATTEN, JOHNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 411

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NN 53244 DocId:32282083 Page 1

---

## Page 2

BOX 411-2

SLURET R29ZL

April 20, 1976

MI. Walter Elder

Review Staff

_2/15/22

Central Intelligence Agency

Langley, Virginia

Dear Mr. Elder:

As we discussed yesterday, the Select Committae would

appreciate the Agency's assistance in contacting To Johno

then with the following message:

The Senate Select Committee on Intelli-

gence. Activitiea, pursuant to Senate Resolu-

tion 21, requesta your presence at the

Committee offices in the New Senate Offjoe

Building in Washington, D.C., by May 10,

1976, for the purpose of taking your sworn

testimony.

Your testimony is sought by the Cormittee

in reference to the investigation into the

assassination of President Kennedy and other

subjects which may develop during the course

of the examination.

A copy of Senate Resolution 21 and the

Rules of Procedure which govern tentimony

before the Committee will be provided prior

to your testimony and they contain material

relating to the rights of witnesses.

Please advise us as to when you can

appear before the Coumittee.

sincerely,

1J/1n

James E. Johnston

SECRET

CIAHAS NO ABJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE O. THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

---

