# docid-32397513

## Page 1

Date:

12/18/98

Page:

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

+00 1 04-10433-10196

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK

FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

CIA

NEWSPAPER ARTICLE: DR. KING WAS RIGHT

00/00/

3

KING

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS:

OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS :

OPEN

POSTPONED IN fuLL.

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

JFK-RH19 :F09 1998.12.18.11:11:23:233129:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NH 53216

DooId:32397513

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Director of rets groups

ii'dir malliers

in•

maniese i nos

threatrning lo

Meninal tarcical Conatilalion and..Lasenodly tdied Tor nothing.

but alli thore whie, tongin

Core Joel Linea, Alig. 5 1153.)

sorhl" disnster;

could not, n.'ny icon..

comoral Discaiser

miche haro adoed

julgment,

¡wis mule one al lhe more recont exaraples. i and

aller' in

have: lecn

puiller. oft

The villane chel eleclions were another:

Mune we nem prometensll hare died corr

nithout the mistilie: or

a: Congressional

Sorne al the "'empeclablow" nie now say-

mathing.

niam, to tin and tunesion das bis allente

vencollie conscripulan net. This war coul!

eal julidention for the use of public funds.

be-ended In n short Ume' cren.101 if tho

ser seriai interests.

Congross has refusil to

ura vers larea Demoeratic

Sona-

estend mollitary

conscrintion beyond June 30, 1.907. Schntor

1ol: finle Macico, of Myoming, in a Senalo

Michael B. Russail gave inintentlona! sup.

'Gã, allempleri lo justify the !

pont

to this

Schate draft

killin: of

Vichamese niem,

wolnen,

and

sichite; May 11, 1907, shen he slated, "If d

children,

An:1

American

hoj's. in

theso "

•I'e nie lo

50 into the open marliet and

Empire in

Southenat Asin

hire men la constituto an

is the last Jirse resource areninutside the

3,500,000 •1110n.

theix

armed force of

would

hardly ho

contral el muy cilo of the majur posters l enough moncy lo carry os the olher opcia

il cais myset? e balanee of the world ;

dilons of rovernmont.!.

I bellore that the condilion of llio

When Senator Mussell masle the state-

Tho

follasting

a directory of Voti

thoms.

rentiet

crons for Peace groups do know of. Pleoso.

VSASH, Dox 4520, Chicago, Ill.

10600, and

sand. in

Inimodlarely

corrections

se'll aut you in soucs with othor rots ln

auditions

knosy

should ho

madc.

your

locality do you can alart one,

.you s0o a group listed la your area, joli

AtlantA

'Yolorons

for Pende

atlanta.

Tel,

30200

(101) 521-6628

012 Porlh Ord

natalker

Tel.

VAlsconsin 50201

(411) 213-6318

Isolation of lack Americais In slums ind

haslon.Chrshrluge

porcity.

Knoiring

these

conditions

In Vialan

One:: 151 Massachussells Avc.,

Matarson

sould imagine

that the loudest voice

for

cossition of U.S, pailicipation in the Vict-

Tol, (417) 547-2370

niul syal would be that of Black Aincricins'

clorzas ler sense in Vietna

Dr. King

Aed to the problem of the urban Negroes

. Met 15

: Chienes,

111.

that of some of thie rural Southern Negroes

Tel. (912)

121-2697

and the justification for demanding the US

corrico: 1600 Y%, Mndison Sto; ROl, 201)

was right

withdrarel from

Vietnami becomes

com-

Agalast the War !

univer:ity

Slallon

Minncapolis, Minne-ola 55114

iL serser veterans for.

Fair Lasn, Meir Jersey

Yolorona for ronce In Vietnam

York, May. cork 10011

pelling. One has only do consider thie re

0т4979770T

Lant jear Dr. Martin Mulher King

cent roport by some doclors of llie condi:

Dolcolt: Alchla.on

Tel.

(013)

032-5200.

roundiy condemned by much at the Amer-

lions that mrovall in the Mississlonl Delta:

ican press and by many government offi-

We sasy homes with children who

elerams los pence in Ylein

To Jin Thomiss

cials foi associating the civil rights nove.

are lucky .to

cat one mical a day

ment with the anti-var movement; it was

wlo don't get mills,

frult, grcen

regcta-:

Charles

Eai Lanilud, Mlchigan

clained tint seent harm sould be dono

bles, or sneat... They have Ilterally no-

thie cause of civil rights in this country,

thing... They are living under such prio

Unfortunalely many Negines Wcre siriy-

milive condillons that ivo: found it hard

crl by

tese argumenls against Dr. ling

to

belleve ire

Anicrican

chillren of the 20lh Century.".

Xot

the

c/o

1110 Rancolal st.

18.101

Tel.

9110119

1719)

and esfininer from supporting him in his

anil-sai nelivilies, It Is to be hoped that

U.S. govarnmcht spends. billlong in Victo

York,

Yorx 10009°

Tel,

(212) 807-2378

You sat fe nesse la vicianu

Philadclphla,

Pennsylvania 19101

Pillsburgh Veterans fos. proce

08X700

Cornegie Mellon Universily

rennsylynnte.

Tol.

15213

(112) 521-7111

recenl necuriences in U.S. cilies will hill-

nam. Accordlug to the recent Kcpublleun':

Greal Necke

the

Vietnant

schenck Norn York.

Morr

cale in then that they have been duped.

Parly walle poper on

Sar

The recont racial disturbances in some

the U.J. Is spending

"onc-fith of lis' eri

U.S. cilies should serve lo convince lhe

tire

national

budiget".

the

: Victann

until now-teluclant element of the Negro

conflict rione.

coinmunily.

• Chat the war in Vietnam Is

'Anil consider thie horribic 'Incongrully

512 Morll

Alexandria

Los Angelos,

californla 10001

pinco in VIaluem

not colecive .to their

inicrosts.

Thieso•

c/0

of being able to spendidillions abrond to:

202 Miarion

disturbances lave pointed up the hopcloss.

make sar on huang and not oeing able

•Madison,

st

Sloatburg,, Now York 10014°

Veterans

4/6-

rede Pare in vianem :

1544

San

serenih

Avenvo

Diego, Cl. 92101

Tel.

(711) 232-6218

Wisconsin 59709

mais and descair of so much of the black

•to

spend 20. million dollars at hame. to

(600) 255-0057

ampulation of this country. It is probalily

snake war on ints.

jerelerant w ether

the

majority

of Na

Black • Americans

should :alisassocintc

sines aree ca the immoralily of Ameri-

thenselves from any Implicatlon

chat

(Kends|l)

Taiani Portun

Tel.

33155

(305) 235-1030

cau artion in Platham, Out it must surely

they apporo of or

condone the Violnam

le abrinusan: rapidly becoming santat

wal'. They

should det it. le known thint

it is ridicula ls lo concentrilo so mucl

They object to having.

American.

Ainerican

o Victnant when

fighting nich naked do lay down their Ilves

hareo malor crint right liere in the U.S.:

in.

Vietnam,

because

therond.lighit.cor

"The crisis of lanicamale educalion and thie

Ercadons is right here, richt rowe

DISTRIBUID VETERANS

STARS

STRIPES

FOR PEACE

'rO

SEIVICE®

MET IN YOUR DOCATNPY! (53.00/100

conica. delivered.

$15.00/1000. coples.

1e.

liserod.).

Do Diego Mo, 1

Ria Plodras; Puarto Mico 00525

Volerans

Mashington,

13.c.

(202) 223-1221

Mastelester Co. 111Y)

Sites frie Pence de Yoha

York

HH

DocId: 32397513' Paqe"2.

APPROVED FOR RELEA:

Date 17 bond 12:

---

## Page 3

and good name of Alerten, Somir Be In do use the billons or connes to ma spend

These Home wi be or mammad Offer draft i

contact and local peace arranention, the!!

nas alertle the suffering, of our own?

Abian abiliation Commite address Move Your present conse, if follet to ts or aste Arsel

alnre.0r.u5...googg

rested angle ease cant only leid lo a telellion

eP.O. Bus 247 Cumbrideo Mass a Draise Arbole see thee grantee Price Deedolo

aniG

madament. in

U.S.

thone who are interested in this front it.

HOW SHOULD WE SUPPORT OUR MEN IN VIETNAMES

apposition do the mi. or munt

sacrile:

For advice

on their

idlective

Sitties:

situation can contact the Draft Resistani

1. Do so send more to be killed and malindd? Already: (tó he filled in with curcont figure whoir puhllshnd):

Americnns We been killer

Clearinghousc,

Finnels

C:.:

tel. 8005) 255-0575.

¡le retorans of vietnam and carica wars nerce with Gen, Darld Al. Shoug (Rel), U.S. Marine Coups :

Commandant

alving the

Cuban missile crisis, who said:a::

"I uelieve that if we had and would keep our airly, bloods, dollar croolier augers out ne the business of these nations so fill

of dopicase, exploited people, they, will arrive ne a solution of their oun, That they design and want, That they lichl and'

work for. was and not the American style, whlch they don't want and above all don't want crammed down their thunks by

Americans,

war world catastroplic."

nir what s tastenind no mater how carefully and loud the milliary, escalation has progressed, miny bo protecting us. to.

We were cal one the vete econo dier A i go one would me Verane sello their.

BU SPORT FOR OUR MEN TIME COME THOSE WHO DEMAND:

TROOPS HOME NOWII! '

*Spcoling ot the annual Junior College World' Äffairs Duy, Pierce Collego, Los Angeles, May 1i, 1966, anel reaffirmod in an intervicw,

A3C-TV Scopo program. August G 19670F

'*Wriling do the editor of thia Palo Allo, Califi Times, Marchi 3, 1966.

M.Y. vels:

Free Lowy

Nas Xorli does joined Audast alls in i

3000 strong much lod thra alicion alim.

lintlin

sliceis lay no darte contingent of

while-clad. doctors;

mises,

5111.

dents and hospint workers. The marchers

called for rolcile on ball of Di. Howard B.

" U.S.

sinly

Cantain

sentenced. 1o

three years at hard labor for accusing lo

truin

special Forces didnen on grounds

they

use medicine primalls

for politlei

and millary purposes.

At a concluding rally the

heard two Vict vols: 1. Arthur s. Man,

Je., chief sychintrist in Singen anil Bien

Alon hospilals in 1065-6; in dan Crumbs.

Coordinator of Vietnam Vetcrans Against

11e \Var.

Di. Blank snidl,

"Orricers and screcanls

Name (printed so we, can yead it)

in this country ind abroad, in basic train-

Nilme (signed in Den)

ing centers, in hospitals; and in the bone

camps in Vietnain, building and maintal.

Adless (number and burcel, printer)

Clly, State, Zip (printed) *

Telephone. No.

ing

an army and fighting a sar, knoss

full

well that anony

ninny

Branch of Service (printed)

a I contribute herewith s..

tovaid publication of this statencut. 4223

Flense send conies of me ad dor mo to eat agned she

Decoratlous won e

18220

4183.

sent

from national policy and object to

the war. Opposition does not sloy at lle

Induction conter.

Ill my esperience,

thir.

belled that what we are doing in Asin is

wrong, is as widespread in the Army as

it is anong all our people."

"The soldler's pationce is great, but il

O Please criter my subscrinton to usesp it ial

55.00 for the duration of the vari (frce to sere

O Herewith Is my contribution of $.!

seen at their military addicts) go licio Mame li

publlal

usese. I will send s...

• icrewith S..... for a bundle at $15.00/1000;

$3.00/100 Copics.

send

coples monthly. Addross

More checks payablo to VETERANS STARS &003

STRIPES FOR PEACE, Send t0.8.0. Dox 1528,

Chicago, Illinals 80800.

City, Stato, Ilp for APO or FPOl

Veterans: Slang"'& Strines for Icace

miblished by

Veterang. for. Icacc

In

Victian, 1608 W. Mindison

St.,.R111. 201,

Chicago,

TIl: G0G12: Tcl.

(312) 121-2009

56/c00y 99/100, $15/9000

Iditor

Donald Mon

Viet Veir Iditor,

a Crun

Tailorial Asst..

Dink McCarter

NY Regional Id.

.. Roll Wolin

is not endless," Di, Blank concluded, "an

He thank De. Iery for reminding the ni-

tion of that. Someday, what is happenin:

Aincrien's

cities,

could

hannen in America's

ainly,

Iro do not

have forever to end this ivar."

This copy of VETERANS STARS I FOR

PEACE

distributed boy:

" VETERANS & RESERVISTS

SOR PEACE IN VICTIM

SAP..0.86X.7353

PHILADELPHIA, Pi.

19891

HY 53216 Docld:323975i3: Pane

---

## Page 4

October 21st

elter to the President

Shoup

(Continual don!'

(continued. Gom Gone Exile

Tha fonoung lower

1018

Went London Johnson on a Chicano tel

civil war in this country,

Vietnam sas ivilline lo nemoliale.

Iloined the Volerans .for Pence in

The program onened with the follossi

mammalin conter's "normal" business of

NaiM

because i have a vision of a. belter

tribute pald to Genern Shong ly Tresident

linlesale denth.

ManY.

thou-

'Dent Mv. Presidentire

world. I leaflet the inductlon conler here in

Johnson

White Ilause ceremonis 1li

50110l5

of

the marches

Te espiled

10

Recent evenls.grompt mic to.wilts.gou.d

Chileago every week with the cnolosed lend.

shoup's

retlrement.at

Cum.

block all Pentagon entrances lo slop the.

this letter Words full ane lo canress my let when quotes she mitary leaders. They, l

1003

UpOll

mandant dê the Marine Corpsi.. in.

war machine for as long as pussible. n

horror. and condemnation of your nrescht

espress me. sentiments. more cloguently

"Ive have come here to the lirat house

Those people who can nic miser 1o.re-

course of action'in

Vict Mnin..

han tover could. ::

of tho lund today to honor Gienerul David

mal 111 Washington Sunday, Oct, 22, and:

•Not too long ngo. I had a vluld dreani

, In closing I besecch you, Mr. President to

Shoup, 1106

beratise

1le

victories

possibly a longer.

fol'

additional

actions.

•thnt I can not torict. I say a South Vich-!

¿roverse our present polley wilich cun only.

salch he has brought to on countrs,

bil!

Yelerans will hold their first nalional con-

namese named

serance Sunday..

pajanins,

main eat on his taels

Jend this nation toward. destruction. Witha

also for the honors he has Uronglit to our

deas our troops nose, and end the uni. I!

heritage, lie. Is n man of ercut discipline

•Buill-un activities for. Ocloner 21st in

while hidden in a rice paddly:

for any reason you feel you can not do this,

sho cares about nicolle.

..i".'

clikle:

"Thess are the: Umes that try nicn's

sukoest you resign.

Othervise,

history:

•'I seeply regret his retirement fion tic

souls. The binck mniketeer and the Saigon written of this period, will, I nm sure, i'c-

service

fot hic

UNCOMMON

Diily

actions at M'ashington Sclective

Service Ta, ad Minuse and Senale Armiel

General sill

shrink from

the scialce of

cord.you as being the most dastardly. Pre-

Ureerl

whose mumbers nie los

Melts

Services Committees starting Soul, 11th.

• his

country,

bul. he s5110 stanals it now:

:1 National Draft Refusal ichion Oct descives the love and thanks of 1lall all.

sident: this nation erer hurl..

• soliose duplication is 100 mie. I sauld pero

A Wood-CulLer from Illinois

somally have had lin continue

ag

Come

roman.

Tyranny. Ilke. Ilall is not easlly:

Lumir J. Subut

mandant of the Marine Corps"

16h, sponsored by The Resistance More.

conguered.

Yet ire have this one. consoli

Il foliosed with:

that the harder the figit the. molc

P'ence ciravans of cars sinn all parts.

tion,

clorlous the triunioh."

ut Ile U.S.

cominy

to

a hamlet,

A huge Wishington folls rock fund-rals.

Inter,

groun of South Vlotnamese soldlers Inter:

ing concert Friday night, Del, 2001, kicke

-logatlng.a

so-enllest

Vict Cong about 15:

ind off the weekend..

years old. The American adsisur lind Just:

Vels are signing a statement quoting

turned hint

over.,to

this group.

hie had

moosition lo the war ly Concral Darli M.i

Just been caught:

wilh

some stolen thind

Slious.

foriner U.S. Marine Conmandant,

archades made. In the U.S.A.ü

ill Reis Admiral Arnold E. True, slich.

Would you know that he gurgled thru

nublishert in

nances in: cities.

the blood

n.s

thes! slowly' slle his theral,

1e U.S. along

Crite calls 1ot

i these words! "I regret that I have but one

nouglinut

local cilizens to join the leace Army, i

•nock. to

10s0. for

1113.

Was Nathans Hans.

country 2 fils name

The full test and a sienature blank apar

peat leclow.

Please sign it if you ard

n.

Before I solic up I caine upona pinup

pellen and get it back to dis lil p.O. Box...

of guerillas gatliered around a Jungle fre.

I. GC6S0.

Nels and non-rels

Their leader nupeared to he giving an 1111-

15:9, Chicago,

lie, let us know Me 1012!

additional

passioned sheech culing with these words;

copies you want for circulation.

ins for myseli,

either slye me liberyo

signed coples of the slarement must be

sive no dcath."

mullet In by Oclober 1, 1067 10 insure Wilb-

• Does this ring a bell? shen sm ive re.

liention, Be sure to indicale whether your

194M11

to

our

1"adillonal nolicy

termination

for all people? amat

Dissent right periled

Congressloul halks and segregallon:

isis are pushingn serles of. Jaws nimed

at

stliling dissent and prolest.

These

include the

Craniel®

(so-called) : "amll:

rial" bill '(II.R.

121) 1 a revivil of the

defunct,

Subversive

Actitles

Conliol

(McCartal. Not (EI.R. 10390 & 103911

nul: the. Pool

dissenters":

bill

115.1..91.

I.R.

121.

ing passed lie House; thie

hers till he coming up soon foi vole

111

hoth the House and

schate.

•Your

teller or ware to your Congressman and

senators can help. stop these blows to

First Anchment Recdenis,

D'or further information on these illls

and suiet to do about them: Irile Nini

Hona!. Committee

to

disolish

HUAC

PO Bos 71757. Ios' Anycles, Calif. 00001

Mr. 121 S. Dearborn St. Ronm S03, - Chi-

GEN.

SHOUP esperling lo Senli,

11!!:-

gust, 196%: I don't beliere that, with ir.

snect lo the freedoni and scourily uf 1l1e

sconle-of the United Slates of. Andileo.

far today or hi the future that the rohan

of South Vietnam is worl

the lite of a

single Amerlein.:"

Asanta vets march,

visis Captain Lewy

Atlanta's Hiroshima

Day Pearc

I'ararle.

"the largest demonstration against the Vict

Wat so far in the south will over gno

marchiel's,

jas led by the nestly corried

Voterans for leace in Vietnam.

The lie

dozen vets, back and white, ind wearin;:

ticle caus, Includes the Reve

nathy, a leader of De. Martin Tatia Trea

Soulscin

Christians Tendeskill Council

The Atlanta vols organized a solidarin

rets coup is planning to publish the ad;

The so-called ereciully ann is tast be.

dclegation which

visited Cant., Minnual

locally.

vicinim veterans Mainst die lar

ale.

coining a

chasm. Me: President, the ens

the Arms doctor cold martialles

placing their asri ad in the Neiv

Xork. sons j0u ad jou aministratin give: us g

Letter to the Editor A

for his anti-sar convictions, n

Tines ind may be conacted it 17 B. 17111

for our Involementin.Vict.Nimare.too

And 201h, at Fl. Jackoon, Columbia, Soil!!

NS: 10003 (101. 212 259-2370).

shallow and narross. for any salaking cille:

Dear Editor:

Carolini.

next issue of USesp

will carry:

You have fooled nll no the people

Could you sond 1e

1a dise of velerans

They report Di. Tors In Grelent shilli

scitie plans concerniny

vels"

participre

some of the,

nic Nois lie line is fust

meninst then war solo live in

Here Jonalind

er has sumters on the last frailit

lin in this imporland beace dellon.

nut.

will Pesol misterly:

-15 dola meet to lost

star your local arganizing

the only nappert do pull rate call la

Modatalid.

Take Blind, Mad. Warmill!?

or hide in citin dills:

KI 53216, Docla-32394Sta Bage MY ideas so we cone the

Mariatin

sit

ma quer Mention out;

---

