# docid-32307507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10292-10210

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3171-454

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

10/24/1961

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

206

NW 45792 DocId:32307507 Page 1°

---

## Page 2

4-42 (Rov. 6-2-61)"

DECODED COPY

• Radio

* Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad'

DeLoach

Evans

Malone

Rosen .

Sullivan

Tavel .

Trotter

Tele. Room

Ingram -

Gandy .

DEFERRED

JO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC, CHICAGO

10-24-61

5:36 AM

RUL

240520

SAMUEL' M.

GIANCANA, AKA.,

ARO DAILY SUMMARY. RE DAILY

SUMMARY OF OCTOBER

20 LAST PERTAINING TO

BEING

IN CONTACT WITH GIANCANA. [

CONTACTED AGAIN OCTOBER 20

LAST BY BUAGERNS RE HIS KNOWLEDGE

OF

AFFAIRS OF GIANCANA.

NOT QUITE AS LUCID AS LAST CONTACT, DID NOT ADMIT A CLOSE ASSOCIA-

TION TO GIANCANA. CONVERSATION DIRECTED TO VENDING OPERATIONS,

AND CANTEEN SERVICES, AND E

• VOLUNTEERED THAT HE KNOWS MUCH

ABOUT SUCH OPERATIONS THROUGH HIS GOOD FRIEND, ROBERT PETRONE

OF OASIS DISPENSING COMPANY. NOTED THAT CG 6486-C HAS ADVISED

HEREIN IS UNS.

ALL INFOR

IN PAST: THAT PETRONE CONTACTED GIANCANA RE THE OPERATION OF OASIS,

ALSO ADVISED GIANCANA ABOUT ED JULIUS, IRS AGENT.

WAS

ASKED IF HE HAD ANY PART OF OASIS VENDING, DENIED SAME. HE WAS

ASKED ABOUT SOME OTHER GIANCANA ENTERPRISES AND WAS VAGUE IN

RESPONSE, EXCEPT PERTAINING TO EVANSTON AND RED TOP CAB COMPANIES,

* WHICH HAVE BEEN ALLEGED TO BE BRIBED BY GIANCANA. ||

WAS

¡ ADAMANT IN STATING THAT GIANCANA HAD NO PART OF THOSE COMPANIES,

E STATING HE HAS KNOWN FRED BARTOLI AND SAM LEVINE FOR MANY YEARS,

DESCRIBING THEM AS HARD WORKING, LEGITIMATE OPERATORS WHO WOULD

HAVE NO PART OF GIANCANA.

AS A MATTER OF FACT, STATED

AN OFFER WAS MADE BY UNIDENTIFIED HOODLUMS SOME

TIME AGO TO BACK

BARTOLI AND LEVINE, WHICH OFFER WAS TURNED DOWN. FURTHER CONTACTS

ARE CONTEMPLATED WITH

RE HIS KNOWLEDGE OF HOODLUMS,

HOWEVER, IT IS NOT EXPECTED THAT HE WILL BE

COMPLETELY COOPERA -454

TIVE AT THIS TIME. " ARMED AND DANGEROUS,.

RECEIVED:

6:49 Aiv

84 19.61

OTHER 4

? 0 196 !

f the intelligence contained in the above message is t

• be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

NW 45792 DocId: 32307507

Page 2

---

