# docid-32327622

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90064-10193

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-15374-152

Released under the John

Ra dear on Record

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WW 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/14/1954

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32327622

Page 1

42

---

## Page 2

7

1=3

PROBAL BUERAN OF THYZS

DASTED STATES DEPARNNEIT Of JURIE

JANUARY 14p 7953

Irangalt the Polloning Poletypo message to:

PROCTOR, PBI (67-15374)

A BLE

P/ VICTOR BANUEL PERETRA, WAS.) FT AL, ITSP, MATS FRAUG

CONSPIRACY. EL PASO 00. DN-1I O REPORTED ON JANUARY

THIRTEEN, LAST, THAT HB HAD ON THAT DATE BRENTH CONYMNAS TON

WITH DOROTHY WARNOCK OF DENVER WHO RECENTLY REFURNED FRON

BEVERLY BILLS, CALIP., WIENE SHE VISTIED HER SISTER, MAYE

LECT, WHO RESIDES IN APARIMENT NUMBER TEN, AT ONE TRRSEATBRE

SOUTH CRESCEYT DRIVE, BEVERLY HILLS. WARNOCK TOLD DR-119-0

THAT HER SISTER, NANCY, HAS BEEN WORKING IN OPPICES OF PEREIRA

CHARLES CORLEY, AND ARTHUR LEWIS CLARK IN BEVERLY ATLLS AND

THAT PEREIRA IS IN PROCESS. OF CLOSING OUT HIS BUSINESS AND

IS DISCUSSING PLANS TO OPEN UP A VENDING MACHINE BUSINESS IN

CANADA. INFORMANT STATED WARNOCK QUOTED NANCY LEET AS SAYING

..PRAT SHE FAS HEAPO PEREIRA DISCUSS THESE PLANS WITH BRADING,

CLANK AND CORLES, LED PEARTRA MADE STATONNTS THAT O.SN

SUPREME COURT UPHOLDS HIS CONVICTION, HE WANTS TO BE AS FAR

AWAY AS POSSIBLE AUD THAT HE WOULD BE BETTER OPE IN CANADA THAN

IN THE UNITED STATES. INFORMANT STATED HR RECENTLY RETURNED

FROM FT. WORTH, TEXAS, WHERE HE LEARNED THAT BRADING, PEREIRA

MORTS WITH

AND HIS WIPS SPEY CHRISTMIS HOLIDAY SEASON A T2 ALERT

RECORRED-33

JAN, 16-1954

52 JAN 22:1599 ANGELES

356

spoolas. Agent in Char

415874-152 0

L

HY 54462 DocId:32327622 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7

Г

SORRAL BUREAU DE DEN

Transale the following T0let5po Roasaga 50:

(FAGE: THO)

MHS:

PERETRA IS SISTER AND THAT ALL THREE OF TARK,

LOS ANGELES LATTER PART OF : ECEMBER, PIPTY THALK.

OF LOS ANGELES, CLYDE AND EUGENE SMALDONE, DRIVER CONT COLOR

PERETRA AND CLARK, WERE RECENTLY SENTENCED IN USDO, DENVER, OI

FRISON TERMS OF SIXTY YEARS EACH ON CHARGES OF BRTBIAN

OBSTRUCTION OP JUSTICE AND CONSPIRACY. THEY ARE NO CONFLAND

IN DENVER: COUNTY JAIL PENDING APFEAL OF THEIR CONVION OSS

IT IS SUGGESTED THAT LOS ANGELES, THROUGH ESTABLISHEDE

INFORMANTS, ATTEMPT TO VERIFY REPORT PEREIRA CONTEMPLATING

ENTERING BUSINESS IN CANADA.

POSTER

END

87-15374-1528

Per ah

Approved:

special Agent ta Chargo

set !

HY 54462

DocId: 32327622

Page 3

---

