# docid-32305534

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10164

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-1ST NR 804

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HEGARTY, EDWARD D.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/27/1962

33

ABR, LCN, PH FAMILY, BOSS, THE COMMISSION, CRIMINAL

ACT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 1A- 1B

v9.1

DocId: 32305534

Page 1

446

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027

NEWARK OFFICE

At Vineland, No Jo

Obtain photo of ANTHONY PERELLA, Vineland, N. J.

as requested in Philadelphia teletype to Newark,

dated

12/6/62,

captioned "ANGELO BRUNO, aka; AR,

in order that

I PRA TO Dated or MEATON Mol Nt to mentioned

herein on pages 13 and 14, and who was further described in

int adelphia airtel to Bureau, dated 7/13/62, captioned

"ANGELO BRUNO, aka, AR,

00: Philadelphia.

At Trenton, N. J.

Determine feasibility of developing a highly

confidential source of information conversant with the

activities of CARL IPPOLITO and/or JOHN SIMONE, if possible,

take immediate and necessary action to effect such a source.

PHELADEL PHIA OFFICE

At Pittston, Pa.

will continue efforts to determine intelligence

Information concerning RUSSELL BUFALIN® in order to determine

his stature in La Causa Nostra affairs.

Will, at the earliest possible date, develop a

highly confidential

source of Information conversant with

BUFALINO's activities.

At Philadelphia, Pa.

Will closely follow and advise office of origin

of all Information received from PR 591-C%, PH 623-Cg

PH 637-C4, and PH 614-C-TE

relative to La Causa Nostra

affairs and information developed relative to membership

in the Commission.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The Philadelphia Division is aware of the need

for a highly confidential source of information conversant

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32305534

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027

with the activities of RUSSELL BUFALINO, Pittston,

who was in attendance at the Apalachin meeting, 11/57.

A complete and thorough survey was made, with Bureau

authority, In effort to effect such a development.

However, at this time, a lack of security has precluded

informant's development.

This matter is being closely

followed.

PH 637-CS was developed on 12/3/62.

Informant

will provide information concerning activities of ANGELO

BRUNO while In Philadelphia area, and possibly while in

other areas:

PH 591-c and PH 623-C® continue to furnish

valuable and reliable information concerning the activities

and membership of the Philadelphia Family of La Causa Nostra.

It is anticipated that these informants will continue their

productivity.

PH 614-0-TE continues to complement PH 623-09 on

a dally basis.

This informant is in a position to provide

identities of

persons who come to the attention of pH 623-c4.

The bulk of information contained herein has

previously been submitted to the

New York Division by

airtels

bearing instant caption or that of "ANGELO BRUNO, aka, AR,"

00: Philadelphia.

All persons identified in this report as members

of La Causa Nostra have been so identified by highly confi-

dential sources.

This list 18 by no means complete.

PH 591-04 and PH 623-C* have both advised that

there are

many other persons who are members of the Philadelphia

Family; however,

sufficlent information is not presently

avallable to identify them.

It ls believed, however, that

additional members

are known as associates of ANGALO

BRUNO,

but in absence of confirmation by a highly reliable source,

their inclusion is not herein being made.

Periodically

the list of Amic1 Nostri of the Philadelphia Family will be

amended to Inelude

additional

members identified.

Information contained herein indicates that only

sketchy details of the activities of the Philadelphia Family

- Ca

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32305534

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 92-1027

in the Trenton;

Camden and Vineland, N.

Jo, areas are known.

Hence,

the development of a highly confidential

conversant with the

SIMONE In the Trenton, N. J., area would be extremely

desirable,

helpful, and of inestimable value in determining

the activities and

identities of Amic1 Nostri in that area,

noting that PH 623-0a has advised, as reported in referenced

Philadelphia report,

page 16, paragraph 1, that there are

two families in addition to the Philadelphia Family,

operating in the Trenton area.

CARL IPPOLITO 1s not, as yet, being listed as

definitely being a Caporegime of the Philadelphia Family,

as Indicated by NY 3368-C-TE, until confirmation is made

by a highly confidential and reliable

source.

The investigative period of this report overlaps

that of referenced report in order to point out

pol nant role schooling at trams Moute in the conduct

of La Causa Nostra members.

The Philadelphia Division has taken the liberty of

deviating from the recommended subheadings in writing this

report in order to set forth more clearly information developed

at Philadelphia concerning La Causa Nostra activities

membership.

INFORMANTS

PH T-1;

PH 623-0®

PH T-2;

PH 591-00

PH

• 1-3;

PH 614-C-TE

PH

T-4;

NK:

2251-0*

PH

T-5;

NY 3368-C-JE

SA WARREN J. DONOVAN,

9/18/62.

• D$ =

COVER PAGE

Not::

DocId: 32305534

Page 4

---

