# docid-32333255

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90106-10111

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-117222-NR

Released under

the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-02-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: MM

TITLE :

DATE: 03/30/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v01

HH 51461 DooId: 32333255

Page 1

21

---

## Page 2

=2.5

CONAD

• 10o

V.

N1T7/30/64

Nasca

str

Airtel

Fos

Proms

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

sadi, iran (234-9751 7441

Director, FBI 120

on 912185

#21/1826.in

Bourairtel 3/26/64 and Bd1a0 3/9/002

Authority to granted

pay anoleoc up to 4200 or

nerudoes fondered on C.G.Do basio. M

turacu has carefully reconoidered your request to

denignate

subject as AsI; however,

authority to

being

dented

dovelop hin de such for same reasons no outlined in

• 105-117222 (Comandos 2)

Rolassily on: OADR

VINeme c

(8)

WOTE, &

DUPLICATE YELLOW j

HERSIN IS

EXCEPT WERE SHOWN

subject, Cuban refugee and pilot, has participated in

militant anti-Castro activities including bonbing and leaflet

dropping minsions over cube in the past.

In 1959 one 60 he vas

hospitalized because of mental condition. but in February 1964)

physicien wno treated him believed he had recovered.

In 1963

he furnished reliable information on two occasions which resulted

Castro forces.

By letter 3/9/64 ue denies liani authorityca to

designate subject as PSI because ve felt that, although he was

cooperating at this time, background indionted he could chonge

his cooperative attitudeand participate in some militant

anti-Castro activities without our knowledge. In addition,

advis

2-88

SPLESK

DACONTINIED PAGE TVO.

\9

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

56 APR 1241964

TOr:

54464. DocId: 32333255

Page

---

## Page 3

Airiel to SAC, Miant

BEL

EVELIO ALPIZAR PREELS BISS

20-78969

Thi. 1

somt thes his history of past menday inscadialty ane propensat

so become

moolved in anti-castro matters mould mole hin atticul

to control.

Miami, however, was authorized to accept date subject

Miant airiel 3/26/64 noted Movimiento Insurrectonal de

Revolucionario Recuperacion (UIRR) is cooperating with Comendos

both anti-Castro organizations which have been involved in

attacks against Cube.

MIRE is plenning new attacks on Cube

which will involue see attack on soulet vessel off coast of

Florida and air attack on sugar oreas in cuba.

LIKE is

depending on subject to handle problems dealing with obtoining of

• plane.

Subject also learned

that Comandos I is planning

Independent boat raid on lube in immediate future and subjeet is

endequoring to obtain additional infermation.

Miami office

nas paid subject actotal of 1400 to date 16200 on SAC authority

and an saditional $200 on Bureau authority) and has requested

authority to pay subject up to on additional $200.

Miami has

also requested authority, in view of new information from informant,

to designate him as PSI.

It is belleved we should authorize the

5200 but take same position as me did before concerning his

development as PSI.

(U)

CONFIOENTIAL

CRET

HW 54464

• DocId: 32333255

Page

---

