# docid-32288189

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY.: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10198-10465

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1012

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FB!

TITLE :

DATE: 02/18/1964

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LST, FISUR, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288189

Page

30

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (44 USC 2107:

Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 18 1964 AN

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson --

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Ir. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

FBI TAMPA

658 PM EST URGENT 2-18-54 WRR

TO

DIRECTOR (92-2781)

FROM

TAMPA (92-1)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA.

AR.

DAILY TELETYPE:

IP ONE TWO ZERO C ADVISED EARLY A.M. TODAY THE SUBJECT WAS HOME

MONDAY MORNING EIGHT A.M., FEBRUARY SEVENTEEN, LEFT AFTERNOON, BE-

LIEVED DRIVEN BY WIFE, AND NOT HOME BY FOUR THIRTY. NIGHT OF SEVEN-

TEEN, SUBJECT AND FAMILY ALL WENT TO DERBY LANE DOG TRACK, ST. PETERS-

BURG, WHILE MAID BABY SAT, AND THEY DID NOT RETURN UNTIL TWELVE THIRTY

A.M. FEBRUARY EIGHTEEN. SOURCE WAS OF OPINION SUBJECT AND WIFE MAY

RETURN MIAMI TODAY.

EISUR

FEBRUARY EIGHTEEN ESTABLISHED AUGUST PANIELLO USED CHRYSLER

A.M. AND RETURNED RESIDENCE NINE TWENTYTWO A.M. SUBJECT OBSERVED WAL-

KIME IN NEIGHBORHOD AND ENTERED RESIDENCE NINE TAPTYONE A MO PANTIN

ELLO LEFT IN CHRYSLER ALONE, SUBJECT LEFT ALONE IN YELLOW CAB NUMBER•

-.

EIGHT TWO WHICH REPORTEDLETYEXI FARE TAMPA ST. AND HENDERSON AVE.,

DOWNTOWN TAMPA.

REC-28 92-2181-1012

A. PANIELLO OBSERVED TO PICK UP WIFE AT EMPLOYMENT AND RETURNED

HER TO RESIDENCE IN CHRYSLER THEN AT THREE IWENIYIWO PM. PANIELLO

DROVE SUBJECI VIA CIRCUITOUS ROUTE TO COLUMBIA RESEBURAN$SHHERE SUB-

JECT SPENT APPROXIMATELY ONE HALF HOUR AND SPOKE ONLY FEW MINUTES WITH

SALVATORE C. TRAFFICANTE, THEN LEFT FOUR THIRTYFOUR P.M. AND WENT TO

ENO:

FA GE EOND 5196

Natio

DocId: 32288189 Page 2

---

