# docid-32312540

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10324-10289

RECORD SERIES:

NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

97-1792-143

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

06/09/1960

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

8

THE GOVERIMENT PRISTING OFFICE 1956

HH 54462

DocId: 32312540

Page 1

---

## Page 2

• Repori form

FD-263 15-12-55:

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Heporting

oprice

NEW YORK

office of

NEW WORK

TITLE OF CASE

LUIS ERNESTO CONTE AGUERC

sare6/9/10

Report made by

LAWRENCE H. ERACKEN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUDA;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Typed B

Synops1sXXXXXXXXXXXX

REFERENCES

Miami teletype to NY, dated 4/3/60.

New Yorls airtel, dated 5/11/60.

AIMILISTRATIVE

AGUERO waS

interviewed in the New York Office on

5/23/60.

The interview lasted approximately three hours

and was

terminated because of prior committments by AGUERO.

As

result a complete interview was not conducted on

this occasion. Accordingly a leac is being set out with

this report to have AGUERO reinterviewed to obtain

additional information from him as well as to develop him

further on the theory thât at this time he exhibits a good

potential as a possible PSI.

Approved

Special

Agent

in Charge

coples addog - Bureau (105-86025) (RM)

(1 - 109-12-210)

(FPM-CUBA)

- Miami (INHO) (RI1)

5 - New York (105-10527)

- 109J12) (FPM-CUBA)

- 97-1792) (Fair Play

Do not write in spaces belon

971-1792-143

Cuba Committee)

10-8-91

SP 8 mAe/JAC

Property of FBI

report is

the agency to which loaned.

31

OMF

Of Conway

To you by

the FBI, and neither it nor lts contents are to be distributed outsid.

1 ÷ GOVERGMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1956 0-3853:9

NW 54462 DooId: 32312540 Page 2

---

## Page 3

r..o

NY 105-40527

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

On 5/3/60, JON SPELLER advised that he

intended to take

AGUERO to Washington, D.C., to mset

with General CUSFMAN, the Executive Assistant to Vice

President NIXON.

He said the principal purpose of the visit

to Washington would be to attempt to expedite getting

AGUERO's family out of Cuba.

During the course of the interview of AGUERO,

this particular point was not gone into due to the

fact that

the interview had to be terminated.

One copies of this report are being furnished

to Miami for their information and possible future use.

INFORMANTS

Identity

of Source

NY T-1

Mr's. ADA FALK

Miani, Florida

File Number

Where Located

Instant file

Serial 3

NY T-2

MARIANO FAGET

PSI-Miami

Instant file

Serial 3

NY T-3

GILL BARRERAS

PSI-Miami

Instant file

Serial 3

- B -

COVER PAGE

NH 54462 DocId:32312540 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 105-40527

INFORVANTS CONT'D

Identity

File Number

of source

Where Located

NY I-4

Instant file

NY 2865-PSI

Serial 4

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed.

and

T symbols have been used only in

those instances where the identities of the informants

must be concealed.

LEADS

NEW YORK

At New York,

New York

1. Will review AGUERO's file as

contained in

INS, NYC.

Will reinterview AGUERO for further

information he may have concerning Cuban matters.

Will consider interviewing GOAR MESTRE

who has knowledge of CONTE's radio activity in Cuba.

COVER PAGE

HH 54462 DocId: 32312540

Page 1

---

