# docid-32404166

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10331-10036

RECORD

SERIES:

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: R. M. HUFFSTUTLER

TO :

DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS

TITLE

: MEMO: DECLASSIFICATION OF JEK ASSASSINATION DOCUMENTS

DATE

04/13/1993

PAGES

SUBJECTS :

REVIEW PROCESS

JFK

ASSASSINATION

PROTECT INFO

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

AOMINISTRATIVE

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

:04/23/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-16 : E2: 2000.02.08.09:09:59:577054

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10036

H# 53217 DocId:32404166 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

93-2248

1 3 APK 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Executive Director

Declassification of JFK Assassination

Documents

1. The purpose of this memorandum is to ask that the

Directorate of Operations take steps to speed up the process

of reviewing the JFK assassination records.

As you know, all agencies are required by law to

review for declassification, and transfer to the National

Archives by 22 August 1993, all records relevant to the

As of 1 April, the DO

faced a backlog of some 57,000 pages just to catch up with

what has been reviewed initially by the Historical Review

Group. There will be an additional 135,000 pages to process

by 22

August.

Although I realize that resources are scarce,

I believe that there is no option but to increase the level

of effort on this task if we are to meet the deadline.

3. The declassification of the documents will be

speeded up if the pace of the coordination process is

improved.

In addition to the resource aspects, I am

concerned that coordination is being prolonged

unnecessarily

because of what may be at times an overly rigid approach to

protecting sources and methods.

The JFK legislation permits

withholding of information on sources and methods only when

there is "clear and convincing evidence" that release would

"demonstrably impair" national security.

OGC advises that the JFK legislation supersedes all

other statutory authority for withholding information

(except portions of the Internal Revenue Code). At the same

time,

the information released under the Act does not

establish a precedent for purposes of FOIA and other

matters.

The assassination records constitute an exception.

The Act allows us to protect genuinely sensitive information

such as names of agents, sources or methods currently in use

or expected to be used, and current foreign liaison

relationships.

NW 53217 DocId: 32404166 Page 2

---

## Page 3

APMINIOTRATIVE

— INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Declassification of JFK Assassination Documents

5. Please remind the DO coordination officers of the

importance of being responsive to the provisions of the JFK

legislation that govern declassification of those particular

records.

R. M. Huffstutler

HH 53217

DocId: 32404166

MOM YESTRATIVE INTERVAL USE ONEY

---

## Page 4

IVISTRATIVE INTÉRNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT:

Declassification of JFK Assassination Records

DCI/CSI/HRG/JFPereira:jas (x30335)

12 April 1993

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1 - EXDIR

1

- D/CSI

1 - C/ HRG

"HH

53217

DocId: 32404166

PAGe NISTRACIVE INTERNAL USE ONEX

---

