# docid-32586314

## Page 1

FD-263 (Plev. 5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

SANTO TRAFF ICANTE, JR., aka

Samb Albano,

Jose Fernandez;

DATEOV 9 1966

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/23 - 11/3/66

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN A. AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

1m

Title being marked "changed" to reflect alias of

SAM ALBANO as furnished by the Central Investigative Bureau,

New York City PD and alias JOSE FERNANDEZ as name used by

TRAFFICANTE during September, 1966.

REFERENCES

Tampa report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER dated 10/7/66

Tampa airtes to Bureau dated 10/12/66 and 11/4/66

Bureau letter to Tampa dated 10/12/B6

New York teletypes to Bureau dated 10/6/66 and 10/28/66

captioned "LA COSA NOSTRA"

Miami airtels to Tampa dated

10/14/66, 10/21/66, 10/28/66 (10)

Cleveland letter to Tampa dated 10/18/66 (IO)

WFO airtel to San Francisco dated 10/21/66 (IO)

New York City report of SA THOMAS M. DUFFIN dated 10/21/66

captioned

I "'LA COSA NOSTRA".

Atlanta airtel to Tampa dated 10/26/66 (I0)

•P-

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-2781-1136

>+D

3

Bureau

(92-2781) fenc. 2)

USA, Tampa

2

- Cleveland

192-1269

• Houston 192-370

- Miami

(92-88)

(1.-

USA,

MM,

Attn:

WALLACE

JOHNSON,

Departmental Attorney)

2 - Tampa

(92-1)

Dissemination Record of Attached lapari

CC. ANG, Griminal Dirtskers

Organized Crime and Racketeering

Section, Room 752

NOV

Notations

74 45966

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

67 DEC7

DooId: 32586314

1966

Page 1

MCT-32

REC- 55

31 EX-103

REC. 1

•ST-108

---

## Page 2

LA.

TP 92-1

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Original and one copy of LHM characterizing

informants used in attached report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information from records General Telephone Company

of Florida

was made available on 10/31/66 by Mr. ALTON M.

BRYANT, Security Director, General Telephone Company of

Florida.

NO 1457-PC advised SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR. on

10/31/66

that during the first week of June, CARLOS and

JOSEPH MARCELLO, together with their wives, yisited SANTO

TRAFFICANTE,

JR. at his Tampa, Florida.

hore-per his invitation.

PC stated that during this period CARLOS

•ARCELLO and

TRAFFICANTE had several lengthy private conversations.

does not know what took place at these conferences.

TRAFFICANTE

and MARCELLO did not settle whatever their problem

was dur-

ing this visit.

Over the July

i 4 weekend, SANTO TRAFFICANTE and

- two of his close associates, names unknown, visited CARLOS

MARCELLO at his Churchill Farms estate. During the weekend

MARCELLO had a small private dinner party in honor of

TRAFFICANTE®

At this dinner party were JOSEPH MARCELLO;

ANTHONY MARCELLO, PASQUALE MARCELLO, JOSEPH "ZIP CHIEMENTI,

calel Investigatore com.the defterson

Parish-District----

Attorney S

PORETTO.

, JIMMY CAMPO, and several

others, names unrecalled.

During

this holiday weekend

several lengthy private conferences occurred between CARLOS

MARCELLO and SANTO TRAFFICANTE.

PC stated that from

MARCELLO's attitude PC could tell that nothing was settled

at these conferences.

B

COVER PAGE

NH 45966

DooId:32586314 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

pC stated. that the secret nature of these cons

ferences was

impressed upon the PC because at Churchill

Farms MARCELLO and TRAFFICANTE walked out into the middle

of the fields behind the main house and sat for many hours.

Likewise, at TRAFFICANTE'S home in Tampa, MARCELLO and

TRAFFICANTE sat alone in the back yard.

During the past several weeks CARLOS MARCELLO has

stated to the PC that the luncheon at which he was arrested

In New York City was just that and that he would not have

seen in attendance if JOSEPH MARCELLO had not been so slou

in packing at their hotel. If they had left fifteen minutes

earlier than they did they would not have received the

invitation to the luncheon.

MARCELLO stated that the really,

serious meeting in New York took place during the early

evening hours the day prior to his arrest and that the New

York Police would have

"seen some real power" if they had

found the meeting the day before the arrest.

PC stated that MARCELLO is worried over TRAFFICANTE

and

got into trouble with the New York people over TRAFFICANTE'S

actions.

PC stated that TRAFFICANTE wants to come into

Louisiana.

Pc does not know how TRAFFICANTE wishes to come

into Louisiana; however, CARLOS MARCELLO is opposed to this

as CARLOS feels that once TRAFFICANTE gets a foothold in

Louisiana it is the beginning of the end of CARLOS MARCELLO.

CARLOS MARCELLO. tOld PC that TRAFFICANTE knows "I only own

Jefferson and Orleans Parishes and I've never wanted to own

anything else". TRAFFICANTE wishes to come in in the rest

10a Perine and in ev

the State; however, MARCELLO feels that this will be the

end of MARCELLO's control of Jefferson and Orleans Parishes.

CARLOS MARCELLO told PC that TRAFFICANTE presented

several problems occurring in this part of the country to

"important people" in New York and elsewhere and created the

impression that CARLOS MARCELLO was to blame for these problems.

PC stated that the problem that TRAFFICANTE used to bring

this to

a head

was the HASKELL JONES problem. CARLOS MARCELLO,

C

COVER PAGE

1H 45966 DocId: 32586314 Page 3

---

## Page 4

TP 92-1

told PC that TRAFFICANTE indicated to these

prople that the

JONES problem was very serious and occurred in CARLOS

MARCELLO's own back yard.

INFORMANTS

The following listed informants were contacted by

SA JOHN A. AMBLER unless otherwise indicated or where identity

of contacting agent not known:

TP T-1 is TP 120-C

TP T-2 is TP 274-C

TP T-3 is Mrs. GEORGE HUBER, 528 N.E. 72nd Street, Miami (by

request), contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T-4 is Mrs. EMILY CUCCIA, 531 N.E. Y1st Street, Miami (by

request), contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T=5 IS MI. MATHEW BART, Valet Parking Service, Miami

International Airport (by request), contacted by sA WENDELL

W. HALL.

TP T-6 is MM 1025-C, contacted by SA WENDELL .W. HALL.

TP T=7 is MM 1165-C contacted by SA WENDELL W. HALL.

TP T-8 is TP 97-C

IP T-9 is LV 101-PC contacted by SA JAMES E. DOYLE

TP T-10 is LV 241-PC contacted by SA JAMES E. DOYLE

TP T-11 is NY 1839-C-TE

TP T-12 is Detective JOHN J. CUNNINGHAM (NA) Duval County SO

Jacksonville, Florida (by request), contacted by SA CHARLES

M. BLALOCK.

D

COVER

• PAGE

HH 45966 DocId:32586314 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

TP'I-13 is PCI NICK SCAGLIONE

TP T-14 is PCI CIRRO BEDAMI

TP T=15 is TP 148-C contacted by SA JOHN R. BRETT

TP T-16 is PCI EDDIE BLANCO, contacted by SA JOHN R. BRETT

TP T-17 is TP 41-C

TP T-18 iS 'PCI GIULLERMO PORCEL

TP T-19 is TP 280-C

TP I-20 is PCI JOSE HERNANDEZ contacted by SA MICHAEL J. HALLY

TP T-21 is NY 4336-C-TE

TP T-22 is Detective THOMAS O'BRIEN, Central Investigative Bureau

New York City PD (by request) contacted by SA JQSEPH.F.

WICHMAN

TP T-23 is Patrolman ED KUROLY, New York City PD (by request)

TP T-24 is Mr. F. C. JERNIGAN, Florida Beverage Department,

Tallahassee, Florida (by request)

TP T-25 is PCI PAT BORINO

TP I-26 is Mr. ALTON M. BRYANT, General Télephone Company of

Florida (by request)

TP T-27 is Mr. HARRY WHITLOCK, Vice President, Capital National

Bank, Tampa (by request)

TP T-28 is TP 120-C

. TP 1-29

is

ME I181-PC contacted by SA HALL.

E

COVER PAGE

HH 45966

DooId: 32586314 Page 5

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

3 ..

Will conduct

credit and criminal record checks

Of NANCY L. PALA, 1128 Hardee Road, Coral Gables.

4..

Will consider requesting Bureau authority to

review toll call data on all telephones available to EVARISTO

GARCIA VIDAL.

5.

Will when recontacting JUDY SALVAT, apparent former

paramour of TRAFFICANTE, determine circumstances

surrounding

6.

Will at Southern Bell determine identity of

subscriber to PLI-7884 as TRAFFICANTE when arrested Queens,

New York, indicated to interviewing police officers that

this was

his Miami, Florida telephone number.

AT HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA

1.

Will obtain identity of subscriber to telephone

number 989-4804, thereafter conduct credit and criminal

or conduct re

record checks and if such checks do not preclude feasibility

of same, will thereafter interview

for association with

TRAFFICANTE.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

1. Will conduct credit and criminal record checks

of CARINA E. WILBY, 4309 Beechway Drive, registered owner

of a 1961 Valiant whose occupant was observed to converse

with LONGO and TRAFFICANTE

Will

thereafter, if deemed ad

visable, interview.

G

COVER PAGE

HH 45966

DooId:32586314 Page 6

---

