# docid-32334552

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information-

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90116-10258

RECORD SERIES: MM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-4921-46

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#: N

53074 Date:

05-30-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

09/18/1964

4

MINUTEMEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DooId: 32334552

Page

1

10

---

## Page 2

9/18/64

DIRECTOR, 8BX (68-107361)

SAC, MIAHI (105-1921)(8)

"MINUTENK""

INPORNATION CONCERHIAG

(INTERNAL SECURITT)

00: XANBAS CITY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE /2/24/82 BY SPSBA/cun

Re ChICAgO aITtOl tO Bureau 1/82/81, and

' Kansas CIty lottor 8O BUreaU 9/4/61.

Referenced alrtol 11880d DInos and addresBes

of individuals balloved to bo sombers of "Minutenes'

or Intorestod 1n thaR OrgAnIzatIOn at one ties. Anons

thOSE SO 1IBTOd FOTO DANHY DE HITT, 5706 CIEXUS Avenue,

Fort Plerce, FlOrIEs and ROBERT T. BELL, SB., 1700

Northwest 113th Torraco, Miant, Florida.

Blant Indices reflect no Identifiable Infor

natIOn On DANNY DE VITT, and Indices of this office are

BOgatIve On ROBERT T. Brad, SR.

Roferonced lettor noted that JOB I. sIddoNs,

3a., 1950 southwest s0th court, diams, Ilorida, Wae

among many individuals throughout tho U.3. uho had

roceived tho "ulnutenen" publication, "On Target", Issue

of m/on. a sonion of llanl falon refloctod that slaco

1954, SIDDONS has been involved in the actioltles of

the National Statos Bighta Party, Florida States Rights,

Inc., and tho Amerloan Naz1 Party, Due tO his Obvious

sympathias, SIDDONS will not bo intervlorod, as 18 18

- BUFORU (REI)

2 = кота () (R) (80-7791))

(8-4127

JHD: pla

(6)

Putti

HKP

forter

105-4921-46

ra'.

HW 53074 DocId:32334552 Page 2

---

## Page 3

#01 105-1921

A revies of lions 21los restecto; 11 report

tho shovo satornation tao furnished tiaul fOr infORtIOs.

Hans Sales JefIcet no identistanlo inforestion

ходоровод ппнно..

mant 19 attoupting to further identify ADAus.

st stuest, slorida, and deternina his activittos.

tant files also reflect that on 8/13/64,

JOHN ER, a privato detoctivo and omer as the seniaolo

Gun shop, tians, aduised ho had racently received

Interature In tao mall concerning captioned organisation,

which indionted that one d. PRItZHAll, HoSt 08ficO BOX

108, North Blant, Florids, was the Local contaot

for the "iltnutenen".

Tuls literature recolved by gE

reflected no rotura addross, and had boon destroyed

by hâm.

Hat's 1s attenpting to identify FRITZHAi.

Indicos of this office aro negative on this indiridual.

Astor the above investigation bas been

completod as Elast,

this office vill proparo & current

roport on the "uhnutcron".

S0TP.91.

N 53074 DocId:32334552 Page 3

---

## Page 4

9/18/88

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-107261)

SAC, HIANI (105-4981)(9)

001. KANSAS CITY

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE. 27/61/52 BY OREgO

Beforonced sirtol llated nanos and addrensoo

of individuals belloved to be members of "Minutenen"

of interested in that organization al oso eino.

ABORg

those Bo liatod wore DANNY DE HITT, 5706 CItrUS Averdo,

Fort Plerce, Florida and DOBRITY. BRId, SR., 1700

Nortwvest 113th TOrTACO, Mlenl, Florlds.

Hant inisons roflect no Identlilablo intos.

matIOn On DANNY DE VITT, and Lndi000 al this offica are

DOgAtIVO On ROBBIT T. BELL, S8.

Referenced letter noted that Jos l. sluDoNs,

SR., 1950 southwest soth Court, Miant, Plorida, gas

anong many indiulduals throughout tho U.8, Ho had

rocolved the "Minutenan" publication,

"On Targat", 10500

of 11/64. A rentes of illant I1les roflocted that since

1984, SIDDONS has bean Involved In the Rotivitles of

the rational states Blguts Party, Plorida Stares Bighta,

Ins., and the anerloan lazl party.

Dus to sis obvious

sympathles, SIDDONa will not bo interclored, as 1t 18

not folt ho has any informant potontial.

2 - BUreRU (BB1)

¿ • innsas City (H4) (68-7787)

: plant

(6) :

X:

Arr nine,

105/4/51-44

HH 53074 DocId:32334552 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MA 105-4921

A popion of slant Siles rolleats, In repart

131/60, at Knoxvillo,

Box 305, Stusrt, alarlds, had sent iltaraturo of tho

the above interantion ms furnishod Mant for Information.

rogasding ADAMs.

Usand la siteupting to further tdontify ADAMS.

at stuart, Ploxlds, and deteruino sta activities.

land 11109 alSO FORloOt that on 8/13/644,

JOHN EK, a privato detontiva and orner of the Sealiolo

Cun Shop, Mand, advised he had rocently racetyed

literature in the nell soncerning captioned organization,

which indieated that one d. FRITZHAR, POst Office Box

105, Horch Mlant, BlorIde,

tas the local contact

fOX

the "Ilnutowen". This Ilterature recolved by sk

rollerted no rotuss sddress, and has been destroyed

by him.

miant is attenpting to identity auticad.

Indees of this office axo negativo on this individual.

DEtOr the abovo InvestIgation DaB beB

completed at llant, this office vlll prepare a current

report on the "slnuteren""..

3.

LelP-10328

NW 53074 DocId:32334552 Page 5

---

