# docid-32291300

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

jFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10076

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-29-674

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 06/25/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

CIP, GAMBLING, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32291300

29

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Colteetrr-40t of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hote) . 3.

DATF 12-71-44-2017

FBI

Date: 6/25/63

Transmit the following in

Via

FLA

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

MM 752-C advised that THOMAS,

WHELAN (MM 92-725),

a member of the Racquet Club, N. Bay ViNage, Fla., until

recently has been requested by the club to refrain from coming

there as he is considered undesirable because of his associations.

This source also advised that DAN

/MONES, SOn Of AL

MONES (MM 92-486) made application for membership in the

Racquet Club and was turned down last year.

At the time,

DAN MONES was a law student.

5 Babbroved:

MM 606-C advised that HYMAN MARTIN

(MM" 92-122)

is still doing very well in his bolita operation in Dade Co.

and now has Broward Co. tied up. MM 606-C estimates MARTIN's

operation is still the largest; that MARTIN and his associates

are grossing over $200,000.00 per week and winning over $140,000

ach week.

C

SO MISTIAN, MACAON, RAN GENTERT, NUTSAOE LAMES

NAT SHRENBERG, RED RAINWATER and his lay-off operators.

This source also advised BILD DORN (MM 162-147),

reputed to be a "bag man"

:, has a bolitá runner by the name

of FRANK MILLER working for him.

He also said DORN takes

number bets from CHARLES ROBERISON, also a bolita operator.

• Bureau

2 - Miami

62-9-295674

RFF: mgw

(5)

1:

&BI

8 JUN 27 1963

Wiel

1303/

Sent

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32291300 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under 'the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColLection AuL or 1992 741 USe

Hotel. DATE: 11-11-2017

MM 92-515

FLA,

MM 509-C-TE advised BEy HUSICK (MM 162-80) in

the earlier part of June lost a considerable amount of

money in his betting and bookmaking operation and it was

rumored he owed about $30,000 and the reason he was

extende the ta an as at 1s a to et of is in the

relationship to DAVE

as HUSICK has been paying off his obligations and has reopened

his South Beach Democratic Club, Miami Beach, where gambling

and bookmaking take place. In addition, MM 509-C-TE stated

that HARRY WILENSKY has closed his "Past Time Bridge & Pinochle

Club"

, Miami Beach, and has moved his operation over to the

South Beach Democratic Club.

MM 509-C-TE also reported ALLIE HARRIS (MM 166-101)

according to information being circulated at Miami Beach, is

in trouble in New York City with the Italians, as HARRIS

reportedly gambled heavily with the Italian "mobs" money

and lost.

He was told they took HARRIS'

new red convertible

Cadillac and he was given a specific amount of time to pay

off the balance.

FLA

He also advised that MEL

HARRIS, SOn Of ALLIE

HARRIS

and son-in-law of LOUIS SHESLER, is expected in Miami any

to take over the office,

set-up in the Geller Bulding, Miami

Beach, to handle the activities of CHESLER and others in the

Island (MM 162-275) •

-

2

DocId: 32291300

Page

3

---

