# docid-32324238

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90025-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-607-8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

11/05/1962

62

ISADORE MAX MILLER

ISADORE MILLER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

12/29/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

DOCId: 32324238

Page

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-283 (Reт.8-1-99)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REFORTINO OFFICE

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ISADORE MAX MILLER,

aka

OFPICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

DATE

11/5/62

INVEsTIGATIVE PERIOD

5/8 - 10/29/62

REPORT MADE BY

SA ROBERT B. GEMRERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

IGA

REFERENCES:

'Dallas airtel to Houston, 7/10/62, captioned "JOHN

ELI STONG, aKa, IGA" and

"ISADORE MAX MILLER, aka, IGA" (10).

Kansas City airtel to Dallas, 7/16/62, captioned "JAME:

HOODROW STONE, IGA" (IO).

Kansas City letter to Dallas, 8/1/62, captioned "JOHN ELI

STONB, aka, ET AL, IGA" (IO).

Los Angeles letter to Dallas, 8/8/62, captioned "JOHN ELI

STONE, aka, IGA" (IO).

Houston airtel to Dallas, 8/20/62, captioned "JOHN ELI

STONE, aka,

IGA" and "ISADORE MAX MILLER, aba,

IGA" (IO).

Houston letter to Dallas, 9/17/62, captioned "JOHN EL)

STONE, aka, IGA" (IO).

Oklahona City letter to Dallas, 10/5/62, captioned "JOHN

ELI STONE, aka, IGA" (IO).

Reports of SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 4/27/62 and 7/18/62,

captioned "JOHN ELI STONE, aka, IGA"; "HENRY CLINTON

WINFREY, aka,

IGA"; " ISADORE. MAX MILLER,

aka, IGA";

and "JAMES WOODROW STONE, aka, IGA", at Dallas.

-p

SPECCH AGENT

ApPRoVED

COPIESTAADI:

162-607) (BRUTAl)

2-Dallas (162-96)

50 NOV 191962

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

Anit 7531 XM-R3

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD..

DATE PWO...

HOW FWD.

DY-...

2-19-65

Kiness

DocId: 32324238

Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

162-607-8

18 NOV

$ 1952

REG. 16

REO. REC

JUNg

ANS.

1964

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL

DL

162-37

162-95

162-96

162-179

Dallas nor the Oklahona City Office has established that he 1e

In any way involved in any gambling activities, and upon inter-

view by the Dallas Office, he indicated he was not a gambler

and would endeavor. to assist the FBI by ascertaining the Location

of any.apartment now maintained by JOHN ELI STONE and/or his

brother, JAMES WOODROW STONE.

It is pointed out that in view of a separate ITWI case

having been opened concerning HENRY CLINTON WINFREY and NOLAN

MAYS, a Southwestern Bell Telephone Company employee, DaLlas,

Texas, in connection with telephone calls from Hot Springs,

Arkansas,, by WINFREY tO MAYS at Dallas, Texas,

in April, 1962;

MAYS has

not as yet been interviewed.

when interviewed, MAYS will

be questioned concerning his knowledge of the bookmaking activitles

of all four subject and any pertinent information obtained frön

him will be reported in the

next report submitted in these cases.

The information from the records of the Southwesters Bell

Telephone Company, Lubbock,

Texas, was made available to SA

BEN S. HARRISON, JR., On 5/8/62 by MI. WILLIAM INGLEY, Manager:

The information from the records of the Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, was made

available to SA CLARK S. MILLER, 9/4/62 by Mr. GEORGE ORCUTT,

North District Manager.

The information from the records of the Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company, Dallas, Texas, was made available to SA

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING on 9/5 and 6/62 by Chief, Special Agent

R. A. BURROW:

The information fron the records of the preston State

Bank, Dallas, Texas was made available to sA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

10/22/62 by Miss BARBARA MC QUEARY and MiSs JAYE GREEN, both of

the Bookkeeping Department.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Dallas T-1 1s Mr. S. B. SMITH, Manager, Southwestern

Bell Telephone Company, Springfield, Missouri, who furnished

Information to SA JAMES A. MITCHELL On 5/21/62.

Dallas T-2 is HO 1064-C who furnished information to

SA PENROD W. HARRIS, On'

'9/6/62.

F

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32324238

Page

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

•...

DI

162-37

162-95

DL 162-96

• 162-179

Dallas T-3 Is PCI ZILA EDITE WILLS,

Dallas T-4 Is DL 141-C who furnished information, to

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 7/18/62.

Dallas T-6 1s DL 172-C who furnished information to SA

ROBERT M. BARRETT on 8/8/62, 9/5/62, and 10/2/62.

'Dallas I-T is DI 140-C who furnished Information to

SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 8/15/62.

Dallas T-8 1s CS G. MENSCHEW, Finance Office, Baylor

Hospital, Dallas, Texas, who

furnished information to SA ROBERT

M. BARRETT, 8/24/62.

Dallas T-9 1s DL 170-C, who furnished information to

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT on 9/5/62.

Dallas T-10 is PCI JAMES CECIL HEIFNER, who furnished

information to SA ROBERT M. BARRETT On 9/20/62.

Dallas T-ll is Superintendent E. B. DUGGER, Casa Vieu

Post Office Station, Dallas, Texas, who furnished information to

SAS ANTHONY E. SCHIAPPA and ROBERT P. GEMBERLING, 10/10/62.

c*

COVER PAGE

-

DocId: 32324238

Page 1

---

