# docid-32286134

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10410

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-2418

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/05/1974

2

SGI, ASSOC, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286134

Page 1

60

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-201p- 3-23-611

AssOC. Dir.:

c. Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep A.D.-Iay

Asit. Dir.

Admin:

FBI

Date:

Comp. Syst

Ext

FEB 51974

Fi

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintezt or code)

Via.

AIRTEL

(Priorisy)

Intel

Laborato

Plan

Spec.

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

Te

FROM

SUBJECT:

SAC, CHICAGO (92-349)

APPRCPRIATE A

UNCLES

SAMUEL GIANCANA aka AND FIF

AR

#ICES

ADVISE

OUTING

SLIP'"

OF.

00: CHICAGO

DATA 10-

Remyairtel dated 1/18/74 and New York teletype

dated 1/31/74. 4

The New York Office has identified the current

girlfriend of GIANCANA as described in remyairtel as being

CAROLYN MORRIS, the ex-wife of EDWIN "BUZZ" MORRIS, President,

Edwin Morris Publishing Company, New York City, the largest

music publisher in the U.s.

CAROLYN MORRIS resides at 1025

Ocear. Avenue, Santa Monica, California, and is age 49, 5'5" tall,

1l0 pounds, blonde hair, well groomed, with two sons.

maiden name is CRUMBLEY and she is originally from Kansas City,

Missouri.

She is the closest friend of actress LAUREN BACALL.

She has been going with GIANCANA for the past 2% years and is

a very cultured person who is very romantically involved with

GIANCANA. 4

I-did

-Bureau

(1- Foreign Liaison Desk) by

els a She: UPDECLASSIFIER

BY

(1- Legat, Beirut) (92-10

ONeTATaTa

(1- Legat,

(1-

Rome)

legat,

Mexico City) (92-13)

-by 0-1 R15

- Legat, London)

00)2-8-74

2-New York

2-Honolulu

UMER: up 93 - 3/71

2- Los Angeles

2-WFO' (92-426)

RECZI

3 FEB: 12. 1974

2-San Francisco

2-San Diego

2-Chicagó-

WFR/prk

(21)

Exempt from GDS, Ce

BON-

Date of Declassifscation Indefa

0-10-78

24

Approved:

94FEB 1591974genl in Charge

DocId: 38286134 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 vote).

DATE: 411-14-2017

CG 92-349

The above information should be utilized by

all offices which received a copy of remyairtel.

The

San Francisco and San Diego Offices can discontinue the

WFO is requested to check the records of the

Department of State, to obtain current

information available there, including a current photo-

graph of CAROLYN MORRIS, it being noted that information

set out in remyairtel that she traveled to London, England,

with Miss BACALL was confirmed by the New York Office. y

For the information of the Honolulu Office, the

Information set out in remyairtel that GIANCANA and Mrs.

MORRIS intended to visit Honolulu over the New Years holi-

day was also confirmed by independent investigation by

the New York Office.u

For the information of Legat, Mexico City, the

New York Office determined that BOB LERNER currently re-

sides next door to GIANCANA In Mexico,

along side the

Churubusco Country Club, Mexico City.(a) U

It is also noted that information has been re-.:

ceived from CG 10838-PC that GIANCANA has a residence in

the Pedregal section of Mexico City and another residence

in Cuernavaca. u

The Los Angeles Office can discontinue the re-

quested interview of PETER WITT, Agent of Miss BACALL.

However? Los Angeles should now attempt interview of CAROLIN

MORRIS In Santa Monica.

to furnish all information concerning her travels with GIANCANA

normation co

She should be specifically

requested

for the past 2½ years, including countries visited, residences

maintained, associates, gifts to her from GIANCANA,

source of

any income available now to GIANCANA,

and any other informa-

tion believed to

be of investigative interest, particularly

any contact that he may currently have with leaders of organizes

crime. W

TUNE TA LIS

2

DocId: 32286134 Page 3

---

