# docid-32295352

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10128

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-95

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

FLYNN, DANIEL A.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/20/1964

24

RCF, SHF, RES, EMP, B/F INT, ASSOC, PLM, CP, TRA, TESUR,

MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v0.1

DocId: 32295352

Page

53

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 100-107383

ADMINISTRATIVE: (CONI'D)

If the FRANKs appeared to be preparing to take a trip.

on 9/17/64, COLON appeared to be very

bitter in his

attitude towards the FRANKs because of their apparent

high standard of living.

SERKANIC stated that she became acquainted

with COLON because at one time he was a resident at 110

Christopher Scrset.

To would appear from the above that the

Comnunist Party, USA, is also attempting to gather infor

mation concerning the activities of SUSAN and RICHARD

FRANK.

The above was not included in the details

of the report in orde: to protect the identity of

SERKANIC.

By letter dated 9/11/64 from the Legal Attache,

ottawa, the Lega advised the following which was reported

by the RCMP:

A source believed to be reliable advised that

RICHARD C. FRANK, 110 Christopher Street, New York 14,

New York, rented

an automobile from the

• Avis Car Rental

When the vehicle was

returned it had travelled

126 miles. (S)

The above was not included in the report because

the letter from the Legat Ottawa had the notation that

dissemination of this information may not be made without

further clearance from the RCMP

The agents who observed the subject and his wife.

COVER PAGE

IF CRET

100-401762-95

DocId: 32295352 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 100-107383

ADMINISTRATIVE: (CONT'D)

The agents who observed the subject in the

company of MILTON K. ROSEN on 8/12/64 were EDWARD J.

O'MALLEY and CHARLES WEHRLE.

The pretext mentioned in this report in the

documentatin of JOHN O. KILLENS was made on 2/26/64 by

SA JOSEPH B. MO ALEER and was an inquiry about a parcel

delivery

INFORMANDS:

Identify of Source

NY T-1

File No. Where Located

134-5481

LENORF, SERKANIC-CSNY

110 Christopher Street

NYO

NY T-2

CG 5824-5*

Documentation of SUSAN H. FRANK

NY

BA

T- 3

975-5

Documentation of SUSAN H. FRANK

NY T-4

NY4047-5*

NY T-5

Mr. DAVID REID, Super-

Instant report

NY T-6

NY 4399-5*

COVER PAGE

SECRED

DocId: 32295352 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRETI

NY 100-107383

INFORMANTS: (Cont 'd)

Identity of Source

File No. Where Located

NY T-7

NY 4033-S*

NIX T-8

INY 559-S* *& (4)

Documentation of CHARLES "Bob" COE

61-7

NY I-10

NY 4605-S

NY I.11

MY. LAVID WILSON

Vice President

Rochester Savings Bank

Rochester, NY

NY T-12

Mr. JOHN ROCHFORD

Manager

Chemical Bank New '

York trust co., Grove

and 4th Street, NIC

Documentation of WILLIAM H. HINTON

Documentation of JOHN O. KILLENS

NY 100-107383-311

NY 100-107383-316

NY 100-107383-305

NY 100-107383-336

(Legat Paris letter to

Director 8/4/64)

AX I-14

Surveillance du

Territoire (DST)

NY

T-15

NY 4548-S*

NX T-16

Italian

Armed Forcei

Intelligence

Service

* (S)

COVER PAGE

D

Legat Rome letter to

Director 9/30/64

SECRET

100-401162-95

DocId: 32295352

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATFD-106Tk47.2917-64)

NY 100-107383

SECREN

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Subject's name is included in the Security Index.

The data appearing on the Security Index card are current.

Changes on the Security Index card are necessary and

Form FD-122 has been, submitted to the Bureau.

A suitable photograph x is L

7 is not available.

Subject is employed in a key facility and

charged with security responsibility. Interested agencies

are

This report is classified

"Secret"

because

(state reason

It contains information from the Italian Armed Forces.

Intelligence servichen is classirled "seoret".

7.

subject previously interviewed (dates) 5/14/62 and 6/28/62

ubiect was not reinterviewed because (state reason

subject is presently under investigation in regard to

Chinese communist activities in the US.

An interview

of the subject may alert him to our interests in him

and jeopardize this investigation.

8.

This case no longer meets the Security Index criteria

and a letter has been directed to the Bureau recommending

cancellation of the Security Index card.

This case has been re-evaluated in the light of the

Security Index criteria and it continues to fall within

subject attended CP meeting on 5/3/57 at Adelphi Hall, NY,

NY (report of SA EARL W. BAKER 4/25/58 at NY) .

On 9/3/59

CV 5824-S* advised that the subject's trip to China would

have the approval of the CP, USA (report of SA GERALD P.

REIDY dated 11/25/60 at NY) .

10. F Subject's SI card Dis G

l is not tabbed Detcom.

[x] Subject's activities warrant

Detcom tabbing because

(state reasons)

COVER PAGE

_ F*

SECRFU

100-401962-95

DocId: 32295352 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 214164-39151

UNIYÉD STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OTHERWISE

SECRET

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

TORMATION CONTAINED

Ju.?

SHONE ED

DANIEL A. FLYNN

10/20/64

100-107383

RICHARD CYRIL. FRANK

Office: New York, New York

Bureau File #:100-401762

Character:

INZERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

Picture Assistant Directors and Script Clerks Union.

Subject

also maintains an office at Room 1113, 39 Cortlandt St.,

Subject's office at 39 Cortlandt contained several

tact with JAMES

Part with JAmes, a a mann in ture, and testen con-

Manager of the "China Daily News"

; MILTON K.

ROSEN, head of

the

Progressive Labor Movement; JACOB'ROSEN, Southern Editor

of "Progressive Labor"'; FRED'JEROME, editor s§ "Challenge";

CHARLES

"Bob's COE who is reportedly pro-Chinese communist;

WILLIAM HS HINTON reportedly removed from CP leadership

because of pro-Chinese communist sympathies. Subject maintains

a bank account at the Rochester Savings Bank, Rochester,

action with Swissways, Geneva, Switzerland. On 9/1/64, subject

stated that he had recently been to Kentucky and Tennessee.

Subject resided at the Gramercy Park Hotel from 8/6-10/64.

Subject fitted for contact lenses. Subject also has ordered a

wig and false moustache.

-

12/27/94

Declassify eM: DADa(SEK)

SECRET

#roup I

Bretuded from-auto-

matIc downgrading and

seetassifIcation

This document contatns neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

100-401962-95

DocId: 32295352 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 100-107383

NY I-4 advised on July 15, 1904, that in the

subject's occupation as an Assistant Director in thi

television industry

weekly basis.

NY I-4 stated that a first director earns

$92 a day on a dally basis and $82.50 a day on a weekly

basis.

Travel of the zubject

On July 2, 1964, IC CHELIS D. PATTERSON was

furntshed the following Information of

the Passport

Office, United States Department of State, Washington,

Passport number215370 Issued to RICHARD CYRIL

FRANK on June 16, 1960, was renewed on July 2, 1964,

subsequent to application submitted on September 9, 1963.

This passport was not valid for travel to Albania,

Cuba, and those portions of China, Korea, Viet Nam under

communist control.

A review of the records of the Immigration and

Naturalization Service, 20 West Broadway, New York,

New York, shows that RICHARD CYRIL FRANK, 110 Christopher

Street, New York, New York, passport number 215370, was

aboard Altalia flight 603 on May 4, 1964, destined for

Milan, Italy.

NY T-16, a confidential source abroad, advised

on September 25, 1964, that RICHARD CYRIL FRANK, born

at Rochester, New York, on August 22, 1922, arrived from

New York on May 5, 1964, at the Malpensa Airport in Milan,

Italy on Alitalia flight 603. (5)

The source stated that FRANK, of whom there 1s no

recora of residence in Italy,

presumably left shortly thereafter

for an unknown destination. (5)

- 11 -

SECRET

100-401962-95

1

DocId: 32295352

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

NY 100-107383

NY T-13 advised on May 22, 1964, that RICHARD CYRIL

FRANK personally appeared at the Alitalia office at 666

5th Avenue, New York, New York, and purchased a one way

ticket to Milan, Italy, for cash.

He originally made a

reservation on flight 603 for May 3, 1964,

but later changed

his reservation to flight 603 on May 4, 1964. He did not

leave a name and telephone number with Alitalia where he

could be reacted.

NI"4 advised on May 5, 1964, that the subject's

wife, SUSAN WRANK, stated that her

husband was out of town

for & few days as he had some business that took him away.

NY T-4 advised on May 14, 1964, that the

subject's wife, In conversation with ROSE COE, stated

that her husband was out of town for a few days.

NY I-14, a confidential source abroad, advised

on inly 20, 1964, that RICHARD CYRIL FRANK, born

August 22, 1922, at Rochester, New York, residence 110

Christopher Street, New York,

New York, lodged at the

Hotel Louvols, rue Lulli, Paris 2, on May 17, 1964. He

was travelling alone and made no contacts while staying at

the Hotel Louvols in Paris, France (S)

The records of the Credit Card Division of the

American Express Company, New York, New York, were reviewed

on September 8, 1964, by SA WALTER C

ZINK.

These. records

show that the subject was billed $214.18 for a transaction

with Swissways, Geneva, Switzerland on May 12, 1964.

The records of the Credit Card Division,

American Express Company, also showed that the subject

was billed $96.30 for a

transaction with Avis Rent-a-car,

Newark, New Jersey on May 25, 1964.

NY I-4 advised on August 13, 1964, that RICHARD

CYRIL, FRANK on that date was offered a job by his union.

-12 -

SECRET

100-401762-95

DocId: 32295352 Page 8

---

