# docid-32310198

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10302-10142

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-172694-11

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/03/1968

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

ES, TRA, WHEREABOUTS, BKG, RES, DESCR, REL, ASSOC,

ACA, RECRUIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32310198

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 2-192

cons

source who is very close to FIORINI has been unable to

furnish current information regarding FIORINI or the IACB

because FIORINI is presently out of town. This source

did advise, however, tht if FIORINI and/or

any followers of

his have gone to Mexico, they may be at the Buchanan

Ranch in Cozumel.

According to the Mexican Tourist Office, Miami,

contacted telephonically

on 10/2/68, Cozumel is in Quintana

Roo Territory, Mexico. A(U)

It is believed that the above U. S. Customs source

is WILLIAM JOHNSON, a former adventurer, who is

very close to FIORINI.

JOHNSON was formerly contacted

by the Miami Office until his direction was turned over

to U. S. Customs, Miami.

CAUKAS also indicated that U. S. Customs, Miami,

was not conducting active investigation in this matter

aside:from contacts of the above source.

On 10/2/68, a no-name inquiry was made for FIORINI

at his employment, G. M. Used Cars, 2480 Northwest 36th

Street.

According to an employee

there, FIORINI departed

about ten days previously to visit his ill mother in Norfolk,

Va.

He was to be gone approximately one week but has not

been heard from since his departure.

unable to learn anything further regarding the plans of

captioned organization since FIORINI has not yet returned

from West Virginia, where he is reportedly visiting

relatives. Prior to his departure for "West Virginia"

FIORINI indicated to this source that he would contact

promptly upon returning to Miami regarding possible

service of the source with the captioned organization.

Other Miami Oftice intormants and sources.

several of whom are well-acquainted

with FIORINI and his

USES

REVIEWED BY EWJFK TASK FORCE

ON

1/24/97 dat

-2 c

PELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

rosary

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 54462 DooId: 32310198 Page 2

---

