# docid-32304028

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201,

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10285-10040

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-107868-51, 57

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

i

DATE: 04/13/1964

PAGES:

25

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Record.

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: • 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 LTR, MEMO

19.1

HH

54463

DocId: 32304028

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. Ty

3010-121

WANTED STATES GE

IRNMENT

•Memorandum

1105=111996 Solommo

105-1302541 shorese

105-120886/ alm

Pace rec of lest ench.

Let to TrianiReTuRE

61x/6x

one

(SECRET

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-107868)

CIA HASNO OBJECTION $6T8/64

FROM

27

DECLASBIFICATION AND/OR

I SAC, MIAMI (234-816) (P)ELEASE OF CIA IT OMA 6 5-97

F34326

SUBJECT:

IRVING RICHARD POYLE

PSI - CUBA

Classhed by SPABJA/GLL

Declassify on:

009 213/86

917-94

Re Miami letter to Bureau 4/13/64.

JFK

Enclosed is a Xerox copy of the most recent

communication from subject received by CIA, Miami, through

POYLE's wife, GLORIA MOLINET.

This communication was received

by Miami on 4/24/64 with POlLa"s letter being postmarked

Mexico, D.F., 4/14/64.

in nature, and the names of the individuals mentioned are

being indexed at Miami. Information concerning individuals.

in Miami on whom cases are pending is being

routed to these

files for action.

DECLASSIFIED BY 5665 5445K

Contact is being mined la, and Agent FRED

KRAVKOV, as late as 5/4/64, advised that the subject's

wife, through telephone conversation with subject in Cuba,

said that subject indicated he expected to see his wife

shortly.

He supposedly is presently in jail for a criminal

violation, but expects to be released

• soon. Details of

the charge were not known. (BARU)

CIA will advise if or when subject arrives in

the.U.s...or. Mexico. (

The Bureau will be kept advised.

SEE RETERSE

SIDE

COR

CLASSAFICATION.

ACTION

Bureau (RM) (Enc-1)

Miami

105/0784857

RGS: plm

(3)

10%

¡ ENCLOSURE

8 MAY 20 1964

XE 0X

JWN 2 4 1964

ANOLOSURE ATTACHED

HEC A

REC: 96

SECa

NAY

964

HH 54463

DocId: 32304028

Page 2

AND CODY

---

## Page 3

-a:1:3

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA #FORMATION:

IN THIS DOCUMENT. Jm 6-2597

(SUD/KSR 84-9711

S.

Gordon"

5141 Clark Street

Montreal,. Canada.

CORREO

AEREO

maturi

Miss Gloria Molinet

1260 South Weat

Apt-

208-s

M1am1 • 35,

Florida

U.S.A.

6th..

Street

40 19636-4

CORREO AEREO - VIA AIR MAIL

LEM.

MEXICO*

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIA IS LINGIASSIFIED

BY.

P8 mAC/ISR

(JFK)

14 54463

DooId: 32304028

Page 3

---

## Page 4

5010-108-03

INC. 27

• I'ED STATES C

RNMENT

Memorandum

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

TO

.: Director, FBI (105-107868 GLASSIFICATION AND/ORATE: 4/13/64

RELEASE CP CIA INFORMATION

FROM SAC, Miami (134-816) (P)

SUBJECT:

IRVING RICHARD

POYLE

PSI - CUBA

HEALS UNCLASSIFIED# 31/326

51

Varsia

4-17-94

Op8 mAC/isK

Reference Miami letter to Bureau 3/12/64 JFK

Enclosed is

Xerox copy of the most recent

communication from subject, received by CIA Miami through

POYLE's wife, GLORIA MOLINET.

This communication was

received by Miami on April 3, 1964, and CIA in their

cover letter, stated they received the letter March 16,

1964, and the

letter was postmarked Mexico, D.F. The

postmark date is illegible.

Agalfbithe information in the communication is

so Eavgeneral tire andthe namesuof, thenindividuals

DEr

POS ME MBL ГЛАНИВ МИС А МОКЕ ТЕО LGMIEHEO

There are

for paragraphs concerning certain

IT

individuals in POYLESccomminication which indicater that

these persons, who are supposedly Communist, are trying to le

tHE tEnthe United States: m

These individuals are LEANDRO

I CAMES E(page 4) ARCEDARE, CARRIAN (Page 05); ALFREDO NIETO

30256

6), and ADREIANOGARCIA HERNANDEE SEEMONTORO (page 6). =

dividuals and aftenchecking sources,

submit LHMs with the pertinent information therein.

Stops will be placed with INS in the event these indi

viduals do attempt,to enter the United States.

2 - Вихеаи

(En

1). (RM)

ENCLOSURE ATTACHES

105-107868-51

- Miami

i'*

11 APR 14 1964

RGS : JMS

XEROX

(3) Place cut let

penice

101 New colos no o

1, LEANDRO GAMES

GARRIA

NAT.

Др 5805.

NA

NIETO

WYA ITICA

4. ADREIAN SARA HERNANDEZ y MONTO

HH

54463

DocId: 32304028 Page 4

- 13025*

---

## Page 5

NN 134-816

On page 7 POYLE mentions MIGUEL ENCISO as being

the Captain Pilot with the Cubana Airlines who has carried

his letters out of Cuba for him. Miami believes this

individual is identical to MIGUEL ENCISO SIGLE, Bureau

file 134-10414.

CIA, Miami, was contacted regarding the infor-

mation contained in the enclosed communication and they

advised they have not taken any action concerning the

above individuals who might possibly attempt to enter the

United States, other than notify the linterview group" at

Opa Locka Detention Center, Opa Locak, Florida. If these

persons do enter the United States they will be thoroughly

screened by INS and CIA.

-

2

SER 0K0

HH 54463

DocId: 32304028 Page 5

---

## Page 6

1nA.1c

96ig

men' I enclosed in this letter the name of my frlend

MANCISO

I also neant

mention that the name he goes by,

in the organization he works with 1s:

last week when he was in Mexico there was a message there for him

may he does not write ant more,

and he told them that the reason 18

Cat

thinge are very hot here, especially since BLANCO had been arrested, I

ant wanted to mention to you,

that this man is not afraid of taking any

mances,

but that he wants to

be quiet for a whilo, until he le sure that

aings

are not too hot for him.

I refuse to let him carry any messages fos

for a while, so therefore this letter will be malled to you thru another

zunce I have,

with the assurance that this letter will not be tampered with

les I have mentioned the name of ENSISO, I am afraid to lot him carry this

letter because if he were searched before leaving on his flight,

and they

paw his name linked in any way at all, you know what the outcome would ibe,

and I don't want to have that on my concienco, I don't mind risking my own

111PA,

but don't fool that I have the riant to

riok his life, just because de

Is read. to heln me in any way, I am sure that you understand this.

1105-2689=4

: *

ANAd,

134-647.

105-1747-1823,010

Funday March 1: 1964:

8:75 ≤.M.

1053 1198-189748

3523-335

62

i wife

just called me end asked me for the name of my friend who carries the

etiters for me. I did not send it hefore when

she had asked me because I was

ot sure what sho wantod. as you know how diraloule lù la for my wita and

But If 1t is what, I think 1t 18. this 18

1s a Captain Pilot More w

Tch the cubana Airlanas. and was during worth

war 2-a Pilot in the Roval Canadian Air Force.. This man is the bast frien

I have here in cuba, and 18 ahout the only Cunan I trust to work with hereLub

in cuba. he is the man that has been working all alone with PANCHOyBlANce

Chis man has risked his Ife many tImog for me, and vica verse.

ca him as much

as I can when he bas asked me to zet certain information ior

210,

and would not hesitate to an anvchine in the world for him, inny nower.

He has a ham radan satin here that he aperates with a Gov't licenso.

I Inow

this man's complete backeround, and can only say that he is the nost honest

man I have ever in my life met.

and there is nothing in the world ha would

not an for a iriona, especially in riskine his own life to do ild at times

T. have nod to criticine him as he had vanted to take too many chances with

things,

hut Tra] proud of the fact that he

does listan to mo.?

think that

thia 1s the Information you want,

1i not ploase advise me otherwise. Ihis

1A the ONLY MAN THAI CARRIES LETIERS FOR ME,

HH 54463 DocId:32304028 Page 6

---

