# docid-32306558

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10198

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-103

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 02/03/1961

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, TRA, ASSOC, HOODLUM ACT, RES, ARMORY LOUNGE,

FISUR, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w9.1

NW 45792 DocId: 32306558 Page 1

407

---

## Page 2

F.D-

•ev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 2/3/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC,

CHICAGO (92-349)

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, Aka.

AR

REC 6131

weet

WEEKLY SUMMARY

Re Chicago airtel summary, 1/27/61.

advised on 1/30/61, that she

observed GIANCANA on 1/29/61, unaccompanied at the Armory

Lounge in Forest Park, driving a 1959 Ford Galaxie.,

1961 license number for this automobile is GW 7896. V

It is noted that the Miami Office advised by airtel

that GIANCANA was as of 1/23/61, back in Miami Beach, Floridä

at the Fontainbleau Hotel. U

Records of the Playboy Club,

_116 E. Walton Place, CHIA.

were checked on 1/27/61, and It was ascertained that SAM

FLOOD has a key to this establishment giving a residence address

of 2801 North Sheridan Road, Chicago.

A pretext inquiry was made at 2801 North Sheridan

Road, Chicago, which is a

• multi story luxury type apartment

building and it was ascertained that there is no SAM FLOOD

listed

as a tenant therein. It was noted, however, that

DONALD MEDLEVINE, former co-owner of the

• Chez Paree night

club in Chicago,

is a tenant in apartment 1520. According

records of the Playboy Club, MEDLEVINE was given as the

sponsor for GIANCANA's membership.

There was a notation on

GIANCANA's card made in large capital letters and heavily

underlined to the effect that no correspondence or communica-

tions were to be sent to this member and all inquiries should

be directed to VIC LOWNES, partner of the Playboy Club.

- Bureau

- Miami (Info)

1

• - Chicago

AL INFORMATION SHANED G2-3121-103

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

FEB

6 1961

BBy: hjz

Approved:

FARCA

Sent

Charge

-

OTHER 4

CRING

NW 45792 DocId: 32306558

Page 2

---

