# docid-32333192

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90106-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-117222-141

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/25/1963

9

Released under the John

f. Kansa, on secora

Act of

1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:WW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

COMANDO L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32333192

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

_CONF

MM 105-7054

'Comandos L,apparently knowing that RALPH

HERNANDEZ is in contact with Mr. KOUN's Office,

may have intentionally planted this allegation

with HERNANDEZ, through HEMMING, for the purpose

of uncovering any informers within Comandos L.

It has been noted that Comandos I leaders are

extremely upset over the recent seizures of theirt

boats and guns by the Customs Agency Service.

*(u)

In view of the possibility, as

set forth in

No. 2 above, this office, UACB, will

conduct no active

investigation to determine [if Comandos I has made any

recordings of conversations involving personnel of this

ofEtce] as it is felt that such Inquiries, he goudd jerpardizely)

through logical informants, such as MM 639-S1

the security of such informants. [It is to be noted

Mr. KOUN's memo reflects that his source, HERNANDEZ, was unablé

to learn when and how the alleged recordings of conversations

involving FBI personnel took place; however, this memo

reflects the tape recordings of conversations involving

Mr. KOUN's field office, and conversations between personnel

of the FBI and the Customs Agency Service, allegedly took

place during a period of two or three weeks, approximately

The regular security precautions taken

by this office to uncover possible telephone line

taps have failed to reveal any telephone taps. StR

Mr. KOUN has advised he will attempt, through

HERNANDEZ, to obtain more specific info from HEMMING

concerning these alleged recordings. He will immediately

notify this office of any pertanent developments (5g1(X(u)

7°

ARMY INFO CLASSIFIED PER

cse.orDsaises +84 190-16449-70636E35

CUSTUAS SERICE INFO GOP IP) UNeL REMATO

CLASSIFICO DUE TO XLAY IT UTO PRAY

S0 +90-16444-338

707 %

CONF

и)

NW 54463 DooId: 32333192 Page 2

---

