# docid-32331309

## Page 1

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10255

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2989-154

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BR

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/20/1962

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

LHM; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32331309

48

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the JOhn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

•DATE: 11-14

-2017

NEORMATION

CON

NED

UNI D STATES DEPARTMENT OF J TIGE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

November 20, 1962

CHARLES TOURINE

CONg

NIAL

On October 4, 1962, Dr. Alfred Carrell SwiSS

Central Police Bureau, Bern,

Switzerland, furnished the

following information concerning captioned individual:

Investigation in the vicinity of Lausanne, Switzer-

land, has revealed that subject, who was born March

26, 1906g

stayed at the Lausanne-Palace from August 4 to 8, 1962, in

In register-

with hotel authorities subject gave his residence as

Miami Beach, Florida!

and langley stated that he resided

435 Lebanon Drive (?), Falls Church (?), VIrgInia.

Examination of hotel records for the above period

howed that the following phone calls were made to the citie

narcated by either subject or Langley: in

Date

Place

Time

August 5

17 minutes

Caria:

August 5

August 5

August 6

August 6

August 7

August 8

Beaulieu, France

Montecatini, Italy

Monte Carlo, Monaco

Geneva, Switzerland

New. York

12 minutes

3 minutes

PIATE AGENC

ICEs

APPRE

110

Cannes, France (3 calls)

Milan, Italy

From Lausanne, subject and Langley went to Clarens,

Switzerland,

where they

were treated by Dr. Niehans at the

"La Prairie" Clinic in a series of rejuvenation treatments

involving the injection of "fresh cells."

In addition to

their board at the clinic,

the treatment cost

each

of them

approximately 7,000 Swiss

francs

($1,625.00).

CONE

IF FAL MATARIAL ATTACHED

COPIES DESTROYED

-3_ MAY 23

1972

92-2989-

ENCLOSURE

184

3

DocId: 32331309

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

The following telephonic contacts were noted during

their stay at Clarens:

Date

Place

August 10

Monte Carlo, Monaco, and Beaulieu, France

(made by Tourine)

August 11

August 12

Miami Beach, Florida (made by Langley)

Paris, France, to one Armand Cerant at

the Hotel Plaza Athenee

August 13

Cannes and Paris (Hotel Ritz)

On August 13, 1962, the subject was in telephonic

contact with one John Pullman, who resides at 20 Avenue de

Valmont,

Lausanne, Switzerland.

Pullman hölds Canadian Pass-

port No. 4.422213

which is valid until May 12, 1964.

He is

the son of Benjamin and Rosèmarie Richard, and is related to

Joan Arlene Richardson, who was born November 15, 1935, at

Toronto, Canada.

According to Swiss authorities, Pullman

resided at the Beau-Rivage Hotel, Lausanne,

Switzerland,

following his arrival on September 25, 1960, and on December

27, 1960,

he moved to an apartment at

20 Avenue de Valmont,

which has

been previously mentioned. In registering with

Swiss authorities as a foreigner, he mentioned that he had

previously resided at 54 Road Avenue, Toronto, Canada,

and

indicated that he was a retired businessman who had sufficient

funds in order to live without working. (M)

The Swiss Central Police Bureau advised that Tourine:

and Langley are unknown to Swiss authorities, as is Armand

Cerant,

whom Tourine telephoned from Clarens

on August 12.

Pullman has not been questioned by Swiss authorities concern-

ing his relationship with subject or George Langley.

V (u)

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of

the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

2

-

42-2989-154

cope lose?

DocId: 32331309 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:: 11-14-2017

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNI D STATES DEPARTMENT OF J

STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Lovesber

20, 1000

NEAL

detobor 4, 1008,

Alfred Carrell,

Susas

Control

Paideo Bureau:

Solcaozlend,

turntsbos

folloving information

Concerning

capetoned

Investigation

ản tho

victatty of lausane,

200d,

has rovented that

was bore

Karch

45 g

4208 g

Btoped se the Lausanne 11000 trou

* August e to

100g,

the

company of

eue George

who me born July ld,

Both Indivadala occupied

600 290

In register

mana Bench, Vlories, and Langley stated

that ha

resided as

esS Lobaron

Drive (2), Pails Church (2), Visgtela.

Arominatton of hotel

: roccres: for

the

above poriod

showed that the followies phons estle vero made

the

elties

Ladiested by either nubject or Langloy:

Date

Place

Mine

August 9

Beaulten, France

17 minutes

'Anguot s

koatecatind,

Italy

August 6

Monte Carlo,

16 and eutes

S redatos

August 6

Conova, Sostaeriend

August 6

Kow

Zock

moistinite

Augnet 7

calls)

Contes, 12800e

Melon, Italy

Faot Lancanne, subject

and Langley

Ses teor land,

Whozo

chey

tront

* Carens,

sore

treatod

by Dri

Wichans st the

"La Prairto" Clinic 1a a series

rejuvenacise treatmente

Involving the injeetion of "frost

addition to

tho12

the clinte, the

croataoat

C0at

then

apprecinately

8,090 Buses

isance

($2,038.00)•

30lo.

ALT INTO

HERE 01

EXCEPT WA

ORNERWIS

ON CONTAINED

& SIXIED

AS CRET

92-2989-154

SrK).

209a95.4

DocId: 32331309

Page

---

