# docid-32190145

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10251-10355

RECORD SERIES: CI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-2758-173

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HOPKINS. EMIL E.

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 12/08/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 100-10461-2438

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/18/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

53025

DocId: 32190145

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Covir Sheet for Informant Report or

Moterial

FD-306 (3-21-58)

CON: X.

i is like

Date received

Recelved from (name or symbol number)

12/16/63

[ст 104-s J& (u)

Mothod of delivery (check appropriate blocks)

Cal in person

→ by telephone

→by mail

It orally furnished and reduced to writing by Agent:

Date

Recelved by

SA EMIL E. HOPKINS

Jorally

= recording device

'I written by Infosmant

Dictated

to

Date of Report

Date(s) of activity

(12/8/63 784(4)

Transcribed

Authenticated

by Informant

(12/8/63]$)U)

Brief description of activity or material

Report of CI 104-S re Communist Party meeting

held 12/8/63, at home of GENNE KUHN,

6105

File where original is located if not

attached

Front St., Wheel1n8, West Virginta. |A(u)

Remarks:

(134-84-557 J50 U)

Utmost care should be taken that any information taken from

this report is paraphrased to protect informant, since only

seven Individuals attended the

meeting. (YU)

11 - Cleveland (RM).

100-17257 (CP Org.)

DECLASSIFIED

BY 9803 ROS/KSR

100-

(ARNOLD JOHNSON ON

5:25-93

0•01-t-it5

62-

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

ALL IMPORMARION CONTAINED

(JACK LEON RUBY, Aka:)

HEREIN

JNCLASSIFIED

105÷

(LEE HARVY OSWALD)

EXCEPT W0

ACRE SHOWN

65-721

(ANTHONY KRC-MAREK)

100-17255

(Membership

100-16463 (Political Activities)

100-17797 (Factionalism)

100-23484 (Mass Organisations)

100-17947 (Strategy in Industry)

9/9/98

Classified ay

9803ndd/gel

Declassity on: MADR

re: JAK

• Dallas (RM)

62-

440

(Assassination of President KENNOY)

(JACK

Block Stamp

LEON RUBY)

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

6 - New York

(RM)

100-

(Cr org..)

620

Assassination of pres®

KENNEDY)

(JACK LEON RUBY)

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-16021 (ARNOLD JOHNSON)

62-1958-173

SEARCHED S

SOWAUIZED."

JAN 8: 1964

FBL: CINC

IMTI

CONFRENTIAL

---

## Page 3

[134-84-55718 (U)

(Copies Continued)

LOWEDX TAL

HH 53025

100-145835. (CP, USA, Public Appearances of Party Leaders - 414)

13- Pittsburgh (RM)

100÷8571

(CP,

State of west Virginia)

100-8572

(CP, Ohio Valley Section)

100-8664

Membership)

100-

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

62=

440

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

105-

(JACK LEON RUBY)

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-8549

(GENNE: KUHN)

100-

(Factionalism)

100-

157-

(Political Affairs)

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100-

100-14821

(Mass Organizations)

(HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, Jr.)

240

Cincinnati

100-3500

(CP

Organization)

(134-8A]64

(и)

62-2758

(assassination of President KENNEDY)

44-456 (JACK LEON RUBY)

105-2505 (LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-7964 (CP Membership)

100-8227

(Political Activities)

100-8481 (Factionalism

100-12701 (Cominfil, Mass Organizations)

100-8359 (Strategy in Industry)

100-12483 (CHARLES PALMER)

100-12408

(RANDALI. GORBY)

100-9142

(FLOYD WELLS)

100-7006

100-12474

(GENNE KUHN)

(JOHN FABRY)

100-12475

(SHIRLEY FABRY)

100-6386

(FRED WALCHLI)

100-1910

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

100-1083

(ANTHONY KRCHMAREK)

157-195

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100-14096

(HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, JR.).

100-8402

(Youth Matters)

134-142

(ADOLPH PACIFICO):

100-1270% (Cominfil, Labor Unions)

DooId 02190143 Page 3

TEA FIDENTIAL

---

## Page 4

CONFIDE LIAL

CI {134-84-557 JA(u)

Informant's report set forth below:

"Steuben 11e196310.| (N(u)

December 8, 1963

"On the above date a group from Steubenviile, Met at

610 S. Front St. Wheelings W. Va. the home of a Genne

(Crockard) Kuhn.

This was a Communist Party Meeting.

The persons who were in attendance who were recognized

Here: f{4)

1 - Floyd Wells:

• A Carpenter and treasurer of his

local Union from Steubenville.

U)

2 - CHARLES PALMER: - A steel worker and former grievance

Committenan from the Wheeling Steel Corpn. and Member

of Local Union #1190 U.S.W.A. C.I.O. A.F-I.

* (U)

3 • Randal Gorby:

from the Wheeling Steel Corpa and a

Conner shop stewar 13 a Member of Local vaton $1i9o

U.S.W.A. C.I.O. A.E.I.

4.∞

Arnold Johnson:

A

former

state chairman of the

Communist Party of Ohio and who now is a sortsof public

relations man for the Communist party- working out or

New York City, New York. He secures speakers for

any engagements

New 7 a8 Colleges and Campus lectures (E(U)

5 John fabrey a Miner from Smithfield. He is know

as the smiling Slovak.

(4)

6 - Mrs. John Fabrey his Wife

C 4)

1 • Genne (Crockard) Kuhn the hostess is a long time c.

party worker former wife of Hugh Crockard Now deceased

and she

since Married Emil Kuhn who now resides at her

home.

Gene has three children two to her first

husband and the other to the latter.

She has a son

about 19 yrs old who is being schooled and worked

over by the c. party in New York. Kelu)

Genne Kuhn Continued: The C party wanted to take her son

Gu11 cauckend ani of her Inclusace as he could ba taught du)

63 .

N4 53025 DocId:32190145 Page 4

CONFIDFNTIA!

---

## Page 5

GI (134-84-557108 4)

CONFIENTIAL

something Constructive. This Gill recently, a few years

or less ago Made a trip to the

Soviet Union ete on the

Youth Conference know as the 'World Youth Conference.'

He will probably emerge from the New York thing as a

At the start of the Meeting Genne brought out

her brief case full of clippings (Newspaper) etc

she

also had a lot of penciled notes which she was

undoubtedly going to use to show what she was doing

and to give others hell for not co operating with her.

But the first discussion by A. Johnson centered around

the late Pres. Kennedy. (

(4)

Arnold explained that since

Oswald was Considered a

Communist then a wave of hysteria was about to explode

against the c. party of America but by the time the

reactionaries were getting started it was announced

that it had been disclosed that it seemed like the

extreme

right had been active.

This was bore out

by the declaration of Russia that It was not the

C. party that had done it because Kennedy was a

friend of the working class but the work of the extreme

right or almost a fascist act. This seemed to sober

the masses that it was the same caliber of people who

had insulted Stevenson only Weeks belore in Dallas,

Texas. fAUl

Arnold stated he was asked by C.B.S. News about this

Oswald as to a letter he had writter to the party, he

told them he gets lots of letters of enquiry about the

C. party and he probably answered it as he does hundreds

of others and even sent him literature if he requested

it.

They (C.B.S.) wanted him to go on the air with a

statement but he

stated. to them he would have to dig the

letter out and be sure before he Made any statement.

Randal Gorby asked Arnold Johnson if when

he got back to

New York to look in the files if he had a letter from

Wn Pokas, formerly from Bellaire, Ohio, and also an

immate of Cambridge Asylum for a period of time, Gorby

• 4.

HIH

53025 DooId:32190145 Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

A(и)

---

## Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL:

CI {134-84-55719414)

asked Johnson to compare the

letter of pokey's with

Oswald's to see if they didn't have a lot in Common.

Palmer stated that he thought the statement by the

Methodist Minister

Covered the situation very good

when he stated that the fact that the Murder of Bill

Moore, M Edgar Evers and others in the south going

by without punishment had set the stage for the

Assassination of Pres. Kennedy. Everyone readily

agreed. du)

Arnold Johnson further stated that no real Marxist

Could do such a thing. There is not Much doubt that

since the soviet Union had expelled him by not

giving him a Citizenship in the Soviet Union because

they thought him to be an Agent of Fascisi. Genne

Meanwhile was Chomping at the bit trying to get her

story told about the N.A.A.C.P. and CORE.

She finally got her Chance to unload. l

She

stated that about the time of the civil Rights

March on Washington a few days before she had been

working with CORE and NAACP the reporter from the

Wheeling paper Intelligencer had Called and wanted

to talk about her.

She gave him answers on the

phone and finally hung up on him.

fron the time

this phone conversation was completed she had been

quoted in the newspaper and exposed as a Communist

party Member, which brought about her expolsion from

the N.A.A.C.P., but since has been restored to

Membership.

Then lately a Man (Negro) by name of Johnson

head of the local CORE group was indicted for robbing a

bus

driver in Steubenville, Ohio. Gene had got in

touch with R. Gorby as she thought Johnson was being

framed.

Gorby found out and told her at this Meeting

that he

had did the robbing and was Not being framed.

The best thing to de

stated Gorby was to give him

help but do not

put CORE and the NAACP out on a Limb

by doing it.

(u)

HH 53025 DooId:32190145 Page 6

CONFIDE TIAL

---

## Page 7

CI (134-8A-557]51

(и)

"Palmer stated that it was News to him as the only thing

he Knew about it was the articles in the paper and the

first one looked as if Genne had stayed on the phone

too long should have hung up quick. He also stated that

In 1948 when he had this trouble everyone Knew about

it and then he got more help and was successful in

defeating the reactionaries.

You have to always work

together on these Matters if you will be successful.

The hour was drawing Near ten o'clock p.M. and the

steubeny 1lle delegation had to work that Nite, (u)

Lunch was furnished by each and everyone with the

exception of A Johnson and he put away plenty.

Johnson stated that he had been down this way about one

week ago and had Contacted some of his old friends by

phone,

one in particular was Adolph Pacifico he

wanted to talk to him on a so called Applachian Coal project

which has been going on for some time Adelph wanted to

meet with him if he could

find time later

Was unable to

sse his at this time. (i 4)

Everyone present asked A.

Johnson When he was coming

back but he would not state exactly only he would notify

the Next time he could make it.

4(4)

No 11terature

No collettons I% (4)

During the time Genne

Kuhn was belly aching about not

getting help from the Valley group it

was pointed out

by A Johnson that some years back when the wheeling group

was a part of w. Virginia group that difficulties existed

and now with the wheeling group in with Ohio valley the

trouble still exists. He also pointed out that distance

has a lot to do with it too. Genne stated that Fred

walchli was supposed to show up with the Beer. She

no answer on the phone"

we need to end plane a elaias be she 804

• 6

CONFIDANTIAL

HH 53025

DocId: 32190145 Page 7

---

