# docid-32319466

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10370-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-117290-ADMIN FOLDER-F1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : DOJ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/22/1978

"PAGES:

239

SUBJECTS :

HSCA ADMINISTRATIVE FOLDER, JFK VOLUME XV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC FOLDER, NEWS ARTICLE, LET, A/T, MEMO, LHM, TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32319466

47

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

2.15.1,

Airtel

December 11, 1978

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

(ATTENTION:

CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT)

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAC, MIAMI (89-35)

(RUC)

ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT JOHN F• KENNEDY,

NOVEMBER 22, 1978

DALLAS, TEXAS

Re Miami teletype to the Bureau dated 11/9/78.

Enclosed for the Bureau are five copies of an IHM dated

12/11/78, as captioned-above.

Enclosed for Dallas is one copy

of same IHM and original interview notes for THOMAS J. HOLT.

For the information of the Bureau and Dallas, in

the opinion of the interviewing Agents, THOMAS J. HOLT

a mentally unstable individual, and DEA suspects that he was

a one time heavy user of cocaine.

DEA has no objections to identity of HOLT (Name)

being set forth in LHM.

No further investigation is being conducted by the

Miami Office, and this matter is being considered RUC.

(3) - Bureau

(Encs.

5)

1

Dallas

(89-43)

1 - Miami

PBS/pj

(5)

(Info.) (Encs. 2)

DocId: 32319466 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

*DATE: 11-14-2017

• .0

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

89-35

Miami, Florida

December 11, 1978

RE: ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1963

DALLAS, TEXAS

sy letter dated october 20, 1978, the United States

Secret Service, Miant, Florida, furnished to the redera. Bureau

of Investigation (FBI), Miami, a copy of & letter sent to

by the United States Drug Enforcement Administra-

tion (DEA), Miami, Florida, dated October 13, 1978.

The DEA

letter advised that an informant for DEA had

indicated that

he was acquainted with Frank Sturgis of Watergate Notoriety,

and during a conversation Sturgis told the informant that he

had killed President John F. Kennedy. This remark was supposed

to have been made in the presence of an individual by the

name of Bill Johnson.

DEA advised that this informant could

be made available for interview.

On November 7, 1978, Peter F. Gruden, Inspector in

Charge, DEA, Miami, Florida, advised that the informant in

this matter was Thomas Joseph Holt. Gruden stated that Bolt

was of questionable reliability, irrational, unpredictable,

. and

described him further as a murderer and perjurer.

He

advised that the only reason Holt was an informant for DEA

at this time was that Holt had furnished information of internal

nature.

Gruden advised that David R. Wiser, Inspector, DEA,

Miami, could furnish more details

concerning holt.

On November 8, 1978, David R. Wiser advised that

Holt had come to DEA and had made allegations of wrongdoings

against a DEA Agent. Wiser advised that to date the internal

investigation in this DEA matter has not uncovered any evidence

to indicate any truth to the allegations of Holt. He advised

that the evidence to date indicates to the contrary.

Wiser advised that Holt had stated that during the late

summer 1978, he (Holt) was on Biscayne Boulevard in the downtown

Miami area, when he came upon Frank Sturgis, who was accompanied

by one Bill Johnson.

Wiser advised that Holt stated that during

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

REW agency.

1776-1976

TINNES

850-00030

DocId: 32319466 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

RE:

ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1978

DALLAS, TEXAS

this encounter, Sturgis stated that he had killed John I.

Kennedy •

Wiser stated that he asked Holt "Why would Sturgis

impart this interesting bit of news to Holt who was a

known government witness and publicized DEA informant from

the past?"

And Holt replied that it was

*one hit man to

another". Wiser advised that Holt had indicated an intention

to go to

the news media regarding his allegations against the

DEA.

Wiser further stated that he thought it likely that

Holt would also make mention of the Sturgis comment, in that

he had reported this to DEA, and that they had done nothing

about it.

Wiser advised for this very reason he trote a memo

concerning what Holt had reported, and for this reason it was

furnished to the Secret Service.

Wiser made avallable a copy of this memo dated

October A, 1978, which is attached.

Wiser further stated that in a case in which folt was

a witness for the prosecution Holt had allegedly called a

defendant during a trial and told him he was going to "get him".

The defendant in this matter, at the time of the call, had a

recording of his telephone call made which was played

for the

presiding judge.

Holt denied

making the call to the defendant,

and the judge ruled that holt's testimony could not be permit-

ted.

On November 9, 1978, Wiser had advised that Bill

Johnson was William I.

Johson, date of birth March 11, 1931,

PaI number 133677C, last known address 1890 N.E. 118th Road.

Miami, Florida.

On November 31, 1978, Wiser advised that Holt had

been polygraphed on three occasions by DEA on November 30, 1978,

and he had failed the three polygraphs concerning his allegations

about DEA.

2

DocId: 32319466 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATED 362 TAET. 2417)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

12/11/78

Date of transcription

THOMAS J. HOLT appeared at the office of the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), 3801 Biscayne Boulevard,

Miami, Florida, where he was interviewed by Special Agents PETER B.

SCHOPPERLE and DON J. DUMFORD, FBI. Prior to the interview,

Special Agent (SA) SCHOPPERLE had explained to Mr. HOLT that the

Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) was desirous of knowing

any information concerning remarks made by one FRANK STURGIS in

his presence concerning the assassination of President JOHN F.

KENNEDY at Dallas, Texas

HOLT advised that he is not that well acquainted with

FRANK STURGIS, but that he met him approximately one year ago

at a party given at Fort Lauderdale,

He stated that

he was introduced to STURGIS by a friend of his, BILLY JOHNSON.

HOLT advised that at this party STURGIS had told him that he

had been a hit man for FIDEL CASTRO, and that both CASTRO and

he (STURGIS) had both worked for the Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA) •

At this point in the interview, HOLT stated that

ROCKEFELLER, meaning NELSON ROCKEFELLER, had been in charge of

the Warren Commission, and that it had been a cover up as far

as the assassination of KENNEDY was concerned.

HOLT next stated

that the "hit" was done in Texas to make it look like JOHNSON

(President LYNDON JOHNSON) was at fault.

HOLT stated that he believed BILLY JOHNSON may have

told STURGIS to say the above things, just to impress HOLT.

knew these people.

stated that he thinks STURGIS may

have killed KENNEDY beCauSe STURGIS had said that he could

"shoot a person's brains out at 1,000 yards with a simple

rifle and imagine what I could do with a Scope." HOLT next

stated that if STURGIS had made these comments to him concerning

the assassination of KENNEDY he was sure that he had probably

told them to other people.

HOLT stated that STURGIS was a man

approximately 50 years old.

HOLT next stated that he advised

BILL JOHNSON had worked as an informant for the FBI, CIA and

Investigation on -12/6/78

—at Miami, Florida

SAS PETER B. SCHOPPERLE and

DY — DON I. DUMFORD

PBS/Pj

- File #Miami 89-35

_Date dictated -

12/8/78

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency:

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32319466

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NM 89-35

DEA.

he stated that he knew BIII JONSON on and off for a

couple of years, and that JOSON was in his late forties.

He further described him as a flim flam man who likes

to try to swindle money from wealthy vomen..

HOLT advised that in regards to the remark made by

STURGIS,

it was during the latter part of the summer that he

was on Blacayne Boulevard, at approxiately 125th Street near

Denny"s Restaurant and Steve"s Pizza, when BILLY JOHNSON

drove up in his car accompanied by FRANK STURGIS:

HOLt advised

that at this time BILLY JOHNSON told STURGIS that he (HOLS)

vas & Boston boy. At this time HOLt advised STURGIS said

"I killed a boy fron boston named KENNEDY."

HOLT advised that

he said,

STURGIS said "yes."

HOLE advised that JOHNSON next laughed and said "Ain't that

heavy." HOLT advised that StunGIs then said "I'll tell you,

nobody else." HOLd advised that that was the end of the

conversation, and STURGIS and JOHNSON left. HOLT next advised

that he was facing murder charges in Broward County,

but that no trial date had been set.

HOLY next stated that

he wanted to becone an informant for the FBI, but that he

would have to have it in writing.

HOLT further related that he

had been acrewed by DEA and his conversation became rambling

making no further sense. Interview was terminated at this

point.

The following is background information concerning

HOLT:

Nane

Date of birth

Race

FBI Number

Hair

BYCS

Height

weight

Place of Birth

Current Address

Telephone number

THOMAS JOSEPH BOLT

March 23, 1941

White male

320 23 F

Brown

5 foet 10 1/2 inches

240 Pounde

Boston, Massachusetts

1627 North Swinton Avenue

Delray Beach, Florida

278-0190

4

DocId: 32319466

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination

Records. Collection Act of 1992 (14 05c 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO

FRUM

DOPTIGNAL FORN NO. 10

BHULT 1E7O FOITION

ESA TFAR 1AI CIRI 101-110

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Peter F. Grudèn, Inspector-in-Charge

David R. Wiser, Inspector

DATE:

Nor P, 1178

Oct. 4, 1978

SUBjECT:: Allegation by Thomas HOLT regarding the Assassination of President Kenpedy

On October 3, 1978, Inspector Donald Clements and I were interviewing

Thomas HOLT regarding an integrity matter. During a rambling discourse

on his bellef that the drug traffic Is a mammoth conspiracy headed by

DEA, HOLT mentioned that he was acquainted with Frank STURGIS of Watergate

notoriëty. HOLT stated that STURGIS once told him (in the presence of

oDe Bill JORNSON) that he (STURGIS) had killed President John F. Kennedy.

When asked why STURGIS would Impart this interesting bit of news to a

kDown government witness, HOLT replied that it was said by "one hit

man to another."

2.

STURGIS' alleged Involvement in the late President's assassination

has been widely reported by the news media. HOLT had previously stated

his Intention to go to the news media regarding his allegations against

DEA. Therefore, he is likely to mention the STURGIS allegation as

well. Assuming that he would also tell them that he had reported the

allegation to tuo DEA Inspectors, I feel this memo is necessary.

3. Should another government agency wish to pursue HOLI's allegation,

he Bald he wag willing to meet with JOHNSON and discuss the matter on

Lape to corroborate STURGIS"

statement.

DRW/1h

5

DocId: 32319466 Page 7

---

