# docid-32331317

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90096-10263

RECORD SERIES:. HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-158

• Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 01/14/1963

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

• CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45964

54

DocId: 32331317 Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE:

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and CHARLES G. DONNELLY observed

subject on 12/18/62.

FRANCES AXE has been previously interviewed by the

NYO.

She has been a friend of TOURINE's for more than 20 years.

She originally knew him in Miami.

It is felt that another

interview at this time would not be productive.

INFORMANTS:

Source

NY T-1

NY T-2

NY 99-C

PCI

Contacted By

SA ARTHUR P. DUFFY

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA CHARLES G. DONNELLY

LEADS:

NEWARK

OTHER 4

At Long Branch, New Jersey

will through pertinont sourcos atuompt tu rinu vut ii

ANTHONY "PUSSY" RUSSO and subject hang out at the Paddock Lounge.

46 Chelsea Avenue. U

It is noted that

Ro deta deered tay to DA subs at unine here.

with subject.

Will ascertain if RUSSO and TOURINE are planning on

establishing some sort of a loan or finance company. U

At Newark, New Jersey

Will attempt to determine if subject hang's out at

the foxy Tavern and if so, his assoclates and activities. U

COVER PAGE

- B -

NN 45964 DocId: 32331317 Page 2

---

