# docid-32304367

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10285-10379

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-102448-65

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 07/01/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT: LB, EJERCITO CUBANO ANTI-COMUNISTA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

05/05/1999

STATUS Redact

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC NOTÉ

NW 45705 DocId: 32304367 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Mr. Tolson

Wir. Belmonty

Mir. "Mohr.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF SIV

FIGATION

Mr. Casper.

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr. Callahan_

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr. Conrad

JUL 11963

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Mr. DeLoach.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

TELETYPE

6-36

ML PM EST

SHR

Rosen_

URGENT

- 1-63

(JFK) Mr. Pavil

Mr. Sullivan.

Мосв

Mr. Trotter

TO

/DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, NEW YORK

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy.

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM

SAC, MIAMI 12-323/ 4P

Ware

OEJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMUNISTA PAREN FRENTE ESCAMBRAY PAREN, PAREN

CUBAN ANTI COMMUNIST ARMY PAREN, PAREN ESCAMBRAY FRONT PAREN

IS DASH CUBA, RA DASH CUBA.

maiden

REMYAIRTELS JUNE TWENTY, TWENTYSEVEN, LAST.

FOR INTO NEW YORK, JESUS RAFAEL FRANCO CANEDO, FORMER MEMBER

CUBAN REBEL ARMY, WHOSE IDENTITY MUST BE STRICTLY PORTECTED, IS,

IN CONTACT WITH MEMBERS ANTI CASTRO ORGANIZATIONS IN MIAMI, AND HAS

BEEN FURNISHING INFO RE ATTEMPTS ABOVE ORGANIZATION TO OBTAIN

EXPLOSIVES, ARMAMENT AND: OTHER EQUIPMENT: FROM A REPRE-

SEÑTATIVE OF SANTOS TRAFFICANTE.

BAÊBUENA, SINO IS CLOSE TO FRANCO, HAS MET WITH REPRE-

SENTATEVE OF TRAFTICATE ON BEHALF OF EVELTO DUDUEARD HAS OFFERED

TWENTYFIVE

t*s.

THOUSAND DOLLARS TO OBTAIN ABOVE, EQUIPMENT. THE

REPRESENTATIVE OF TRAFFICANTE SAID HE COULD OBTAIN THE EQUIPMENT

IN QUESTION, BUT FIRST WOULD HAVE TO CHECK ON DUQUE-S PLANS AND

HIS CLAIM THAT DUQYE RECEIVED MONEY FROM FORMER CUBAN

REC®

13810

END PAGE ONE

105-102448-

3-6

RELAYE

15 1963A RW

TE MIL

8

1963.

COpY ASCA 1/20hr

Bartone

105-103448

NW 45705 DocId: 32304367

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE THREE

ABOVE FURNISHED TO CUSTOMS, MIAMI, WHO STATED THEY WERE

INTERESTED IN INVESTIGATING MATTER AND PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN

BARTONE-S CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE.

TODAY

ADVISED BALBUENA HAD SPOKEN TO BARTONE WHO SAID

HE DOES NOT WANT TO DO BUSINESS IN MIAMI BECAUSE HE IS AFRAID OF

FEDERAL AUTHORITIES. HE MADE ARRANGEMENTS FOR BALBUENA AND HIS

BODYGUARD OF JUNE IWENTYFIVE TO FLY TO NEW YORK AROUND MIDNIGHT

TONIGHT.

• BODY GUARD AND BALBUENA WILL OBTAIN EQUIPMENT IN NEW YORK

AND BARTONE-S PEOPLE WILL SEND EQUIPMENT FROM NEW YORK TO SOME

ISLAND IN CARIBBEAN WHERE DUQUE AND HIS GROUP WILL PICK UP THE

EQUIPMENT.

BALBUENA WILL RETURN MIAMI IN THREE OR FOUR DAYS AND WILL

GIVE

FURTHER DETAILS TO INFORMANT.

BARTONE-S BODYGUARD DESCRIBED AS W.M., AGE THIRTY, SIX FEET

TALL, ONE SIXTY POUNDS, BLACK WAVY HAIR, THIN BUILD, SPORTS

CLOTHES.

BAÏBUENA DESCRIBED AS W. M., AGE THRITYFIVE, SIX FEET TALL,

TWO FORTY POUNDS, HEAVY BUILD, BROWN HAIR AND EYES, LARGE STOMACH.

END PAGE THREE

NW 45705 DocId: 32304367 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

