# docid-32292298

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act.

of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10074

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-390

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/12/1961

2

GAL, ASSOC, GAMBLING, HANDBOOK OPERATORS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

Doc1A: 32292298

Page 1

380

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kerinedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIG

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUS

COMMUNICATIONS SL

DEC 12 1961

TEL

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont:

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Conrad

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone.

i Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mi. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

DEFERRED 13-12-61 4-54 PM GSI EAR

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ 2P

ANTRACKETEERING

GUS ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. INTORMATION HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY

RECLIVED THAT INDIVIDUAL KNOWN AS QUOTE"

MOUSIE UNQUOTE WAS RUNNING

A HANDBOOK FOR ALEX AND HIS ASSOCIATES. CE SIX FOUR NINE EICHT DASH

PC CONTACTED RECENTLY

(FIRST NAME

UNKNOWN, AND ADVISED THAT QUOFE

MOUS IE"

UNQUOTE IS

PAREN- ENU' PAREN GIAMBRONE AND IS A LONG TIME AND TRUSTED FRIEND OF

ALEX AND LOUIS BRIATTO. INFORMANT SAID THAT QUOTE"

MOUSIE UNQUOTE

IS, NO LONCER WORKING FOR BRIATTO AS A HANDBOOK OPERATOR BECAUSE

/ PRACTICALLY ALL OF BRIATTO-S HANDBOOKS ARE SHUT DOWN AT THE PRESENT

TIME.

INFORMANT STATED THAT HE COULD NOT RECALL WHEN GAMBLING WAS

SUCH A POOR STATE OF AFFAIRS IN CHICAGO AS IT IS AT THE PRESENT

TIME: HE

SAID THAT THERE ARE NO HANDBOOKS OPERATING AT THE PRESENT

TIME IN CHICAGO WITH MORE THAN

ALL HANDBOOKS HAD FIFTEEN JE PARC- SC

• THREE. PHONES WHEREAS FORMERLY

55 C

3182-

PHONES.

INFORMANT WAS. 6P

THE

END

PACE

ONE

232 DEC 28 1961V

62 JAN

3

1982

DocId: 32292298 Page 2

---

