# docid-32328062

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-90068-10013

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-75147-210-81

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HAV

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 02/29/1956

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

AMERICAN GAMBLING ACTIVITIES IN CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

06/24/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

MEMO

NW 45693 DocId: 32328062 Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNITED STATES 'GOVERNMENT

Office Memoran FORMATION CONTAINE A 29, 1555

TO

: Director, FBI

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM hilLegat, Havana (1l+-2)

SUBJECT

DATE 5/10/82 BY SPYTEM/

ATERNATIONAI, CUBAN HOSPITAT SWEE STAKES

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF LOITERY TICKEISHESR

Beneral INvestigative Intelligence File Cubet

Re Havana letter dated 1/10/56 stating Oriental Park

Race Track officials in Havana, Cuba,

are attempting to

expedite issuance and sale of

International Cuban Hospital

Sweepstakes Tickets to raise additional revenue to support

the track.

Information was set out that the track was going

ON CONTAT

VACLASSIFLED

ALL INFORMATI

HERE SHOWN

TERE

EXCEPT

OTHERHI:

Бтру

broke under the management of JOSEPH G. LEASE, President of

the. Cuban Racing Company 080m

Reference is aldo made to Havana letter of 2/27/56 captioned

"CARMINE DI BIASE,

Fugitive; UFAP (Murder),

" Bufile 88-8893,

setting forth that since 2/3/56 GEORGE LEVINE was back ir

Cuba and has a part in running the gambling casino at the

Jockey Club of Oriental Park Race Track.(6

On 2/9/56 the Cuban Racing Company management of JO EPH G.

LEASE was dissolved and the DELCA Racing Company was formed,

with Dr. MARIO DEL CANAL as president. LEASElss name did.

not appear as connected with this company in any way.

On 2/15/56 PCI

advised that Dr. CAÑAI

had been associated with

the track since the beginning of

its operation as general manager and that he had been made

president of the new racing company to gain the support and

confidence of the Cuban public

1.

According to the source, the track was more than $200,000.00

in debt at the time the

• DELCA RACING COMPANY was formed.

Source also stated that

since the appearance of GEORGE LEVINE

Review

at the track on 2/3/56, LEASE has not teen seen around.

said that LEASE was reported to be in the States trying to

Source

raise money.

Class.

Reason

Source advised one HAROLD GROSS

Date

a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,

used car dealer and big-time, gambler

appeared to be running

things at the track and was

considered to be the power and

(-D

money backer in the company

2862-151+7-210-81

C: 2- New corkAAC:nk

SECRECORDED - -25

2-

mi (8)

1 1 MAR

€ 1956

56 MAR 9 • 1956

INDEXED - 25

EX-108

NW 45693 DocId: 32328062

Page 2

OTHER 4

---

