# docid-32286449

## Page 1

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10195-10225

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2122

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/13/1967

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1 .

DocId: 32286449

37

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased Wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 01 1992 744 USC 2107 Hoter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

BI

AGENOTES

AIRTEL

TO:

1.300

ADVISEN

JADE

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DECLASCITIEN

1011 85618RF4

EGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-130,

CONT

DATE:

A APPROPRIATS

MOCKES

4059

AND FIELD!

ADVISED BY

COURISEE

351

SLIP (S)

IRATE

SEE REVERSE

713/

ORIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

DATE

RE:

#SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka

NG

ARI

Re Mexico City letter 11/17/04I

Representatives of this office have been in daily

contact with Attorney JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES of Mexican Immigration,

and his office has taken no further action in this matter to date.

The observations in Chicago teletype 7/27/67, instructions in

Bureau cable 7/28/67, and the importance of the relationship

between this Office and Mexican Immigration make it inadvisable

to influence the latter agency to take any specific

action in this matter at the present time.

It has been repeatedly

emphasized, however,

that this Office desires

ant pertinent developments regarding subjecte

be advised. of

Action by Mexican Immigration may be hindered by the

usual bureaucratic delays and lack of personnel or because the

subJect may have established a contact for protection unsle doyl

The latter alternative, although a possibility, is

purely speculative and unsupported

available to the Mexico City Office

i ormation presently

JOAN BANNISTER,

Secretary

in the office

the Bureau

Narcotics, American Embassy, Mexico City, Who volts frequently

in Cuernavaca, has advised on various gecent

house at Nubes 2 in Cuernavaca does not give the appearance o:

being currently occupied.

She noted that. the house has an

upstairs sun deck with shutters and porch furniture and that

as of early December 1967 the

furniture had been taken in

TASSINTED BY/

LAMPT FROM CDS, CATEGORY,

DATE CE DECLAL SIFICATION

ALI. INI

HIERSIN

AXCBP!

On 12/8/67,

an independent

She is believe

Cuernavaca fory

-lecdod

6 - Bureau

how sentriaison Section)

2=soChicago, 92-349)

Mexico City

acopert CG

14Y

12/191107

Bishop,

1967GL: med

DATE O

Epice 10

RUIT DORENBERG,

nationallty and has resided in

RECUS P

=2122

ENTIAt

DEC 18 1957

3920178

DocId: 32286449

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collecti

on Act

DATE: 11-14-2017

(74

USC

Hote,

MEX 92-13

When questioned concerning Nubes 2, DORENBERG only

acknowledged that she had handled the sale of this property.

She noted that the property formerly belonged to Mr. ANDRES

and currently belongs to the company Las Nubes, S.A., which

is administered by Attorney JORGE CASTILLO.

She would not

identify the resident of the address but stated that no one

was currently in residence at that addresse

Based on this information, it would appear that

LEAD: •

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

AT MEXICO, D.F.

Will continue

Immigration and sources.

to follow this case through Mexican

2

1d3-12.530

DocId: 32286449

Page 3

---

