# docid-32297312

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

45

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10219-10088

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2717-536

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/27/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

• DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

ABR, TRA, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, EMP, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297312

Page 1

193

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr —

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans -

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

• Teletype

URGENT

4-27-62

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

272121

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA, AR. DAILY RAD.

PH 614-C-TE STATES ZIGANETTE GAME PRESENTLY BEING

OPERATED BY LULU, BELIEVED TO BE LULU ESPOSITO, NUMBERS

OPERATOR FOR JOSEPH RUGNETTA. FRANK MONTE AND

FRANK

NARDUCCI STILL WORKING THE GAME AS DEALERS.

PH 623-0* REPORTS IGNATIUS DENARO CONFERRED WITH SUBJECT

APRIL 26 AND PHIL TESTA CONCERNING UNKNOWN INDIVIDUAL THEY

ARE GOING TO DISCIPLINE. BRUNO WAS SCHEDULED TO DEPART FOR

MIAMI THIS DATE. REASON FOR DELAY UNKNOWN.

PH 627-PC-TE YESTERDAY TOOK OVER OPERATIONS OF NUMBERS

OFFICE IN THE EMPLOY OF BRUNO, OBTAINING PHONE NUMBERS AND

SEVERAL OTHER NUMBERS OFFICES WHICH INFORMANT CONTACTS IN

CONNECTION WITH EMPLOYMENT. ADVISED FOUR "OLDER ITALIAN

FELLOWS" ATTENDED MEETING JACK DEMPSEYS IN NEW YORK WITH

TESTA, ET AL, EVENING APRIL 25%

UNKNOWN MATTER DISCUSSED

WAS "SERIOUS." INFORMANT ATTEMPTING TO OBTAIN DETAILS AND

IDENTITIES OF PERSONS AT MEETING.

RECEIVED:

6:51 PM

MEL 92-2717-53

REC-34

25 APR 30 1962

EX 10U

58 LAY

1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32297312 Page 2

---

