# docid-32308173

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

• FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-4TH NR 30

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-21-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI.

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/16/1959

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53932

DocId: 32308173

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET

LISTE

(Pr

Last

• лось он оба

on Mochet a That on

many Buo, 70 200-501) 4614)

2-5-98 м

(TIDEL CASTRO RUZ (U)

IS • CUBA

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK

Renvairtel 4/15/59:

The following information concerning CASTRO's

visit to Hashington, D. Co, 8et fortre

It is noted that all pertinent information

pertaining to security of CASTRO, as furnished by Bureau,

auxiliary offices and sources, has been furrished by irO

to detropolitan Folice Lepartnent (KPD),

Part rolice

and fairfaI County Pollce Department.

The following activities red

RROORDRI

DeTA OUSATUed DU SAS HAROLD RUBENSTEIA AI

From 4:45 to 5:45 P.M. 4/16/59 approamately.

34 individuals carrying 21

signs were obserued picketing

in an orderly fashion vicinity of White House.

slogana on

signa mere as Jollows:

"CASTRO MILI RING PANANA CANAL FITE

CONVUNIST SATELLITIS"

118-94

MIDEL CASTRO - - RED PUPPIY"

mm.m

Classified by Sp

BAC/KSTe

Ceclassify on:

LADE (JFU

38. P04

7 = 498:705% (INSO) (RU)

BJH/por

(6)

0.C.Wick

HERE: LE LSCIASEIEIEO

F142 EXCEPT WHERE SHONA NONS

67 ARR•20 1959 OTHERWISE

Special Joard in Chore

74 53932

DocId: 32308173

Page 2

SECRET

M

---

## Page 3

40n.L1.T

6841

I 8

1o1nd

WO 209-50/00 (4)

oly soccaom palwollo: eds simamosT

"FIDEL - NEWIST RICTATOR IN CASPER HEMISPHERE"

"GRACIAS FIDEL " KRUSHCHET"

"MARXISK NOW TAUGET IN CUBA WITH CONSENT OF CASTRO"

It was obserued following individuols also present

at above picket:

RAFAEL del PINO

MM 639-S

PEDRO de MESONES, President, Pan Americon

Anti-Communist Association, New Fork City

At 6: 30

Pollo approximately 500 PrO-CASTRO fOllOWerS

observed at Washington National Airport, Military Air Transport

service.

Very few were carrying pro-CASTRo placards. Approxi-

mately four of aboue anti-cASTRo pickets present carrying

placards.

CASTRO airplane arrived approximately 9:30 P.M.

He was convoyed to Cuban Embassy, washington, D. C., and after

conuersing on sidewalk with followers, entered Embassy.

Captain MICHAEL J. MAHANEY, MPD, telephonically aduised NFO

10:05 P.M, no incidents hod occurred and CASTRO indicated

desire to go to bed.

On 4/16/59 approximately 25 anti-CASTRO people

commenced picketing vicinity of Statler Hotel,

washington,

D. C.,

at 12:15 Pol. under leadership of del PINO. I. IRVING

#DAVIDSON obserued in vicinity of picketing.

CASTRO arrived Statler 12:30 Poll. for luncheon

with Undersecretary of State CHRISTIAN HERTER.

No incidents

at that time. At approximately 1:00 P.ù. del PINO obserued

in heated argument in spanish language with unidentifiea Latn

American male.

Argument culminated in exchange of blows, which

was quickly broken up by captain MAHANEY, MPD,

and unidentified

MPD lieutenant.. Pickets left ared 1:15 Pol. without further

incident.

arriving cuch to departed state otel greate 210 Pol

PSI (JORGE PERRAMON y SPENCER

telephonically

SA DONALD HOETING night of 4/15/59 he was present ot Washington

Notional Airport for arrivol of CASTRO, which occurred as aboue.

stated no incidents other then nome calling between pro- and

anti-CASTRO grOUpS.

PaRTRATE

8

NW 53932 DooId:32308173 Page 3

---

## Page 4

100 208-50 06(4)

[SPENCER!

4/16/59 telephonicoll

HOETINGhe had accompanied CASTRO group lo Embassid unile

Dot ambasswad spoken with his ory good prienc i

BETANCOURT& KOrmer CS NI (03575

ERNEST UEEL

Directors

President,

National Bank of Cube.

stated economic situation in Cubo very bee aù

it is not known what that country will do after the present

sugar crop has been horuested.

They agreed that CASTRO!'s

popularity hod woned briefly after his successful revolution

but his popularity at present was increasing within cuba.

On 1/16/59 Mid 639-s aduised SA RICHARD B. KELLOGG

he had been at the above picketing of White House 4/15/59 in

company of del PINO, MESONES and I. IRVING DAVIDSON. At that

time ANGEI PEREZ VIDAL, whom he described as head of the

palace guaro in Havana, Cuba, stopped in an automobilei.

accompanied by four males,

reported, (VIDAL

names unknown.

As previously

Tis personal friend of informant and he hailer

informant and told him to get away from pickets and get ir

the automobile. Del PINO protested later, telling informant

he feared informant would be shot. Informant agreed to go

with VIDALland when questioned about his actions with del PINO,

he told vIDalithat he was obtaining information concerning

del PINO fOrTRAUL CASTRO, brother Of FIDEL. This apparently

satisfied vIDAl] When later questioned by del PIlO concerning

VIDALehe stated that he had told del PINo that irDAiwas.

well known to him and he could ascertain VIDAL's Actiuities..

for del PINO.

He stated that he did not know. ther this

incident has altered the trust placed in him by del PINo.

Informant believes, however, he has convinced both sides

that he can be trusted.

lor pickets for del PINO and palment for some.

Informant stated DAVIDSON arranged for hiring

Pickets

obtained through FRANK de BROUSE,

Teamsters Joint Council

No. 55, Hashington, D. C.

DAVIDSON mentioned he was having

breakfast with JIMMY HOFFA "shortly;" however, no indication

HOFFA connected with CASTRO visit.

VIDAL

told informant he,

"TIDAL, interested ins

organtaing people

e to break up anti-CASTRO picket lines.

stating this would play

into hand or da can tall atten at a pared ou forgot s

this jeot. It is noted that MeSONES on 4/15/59 indicateo.

VILALd0 bring pro-CASTRO pickets..rom New York City. (VIDAl

did nút seem.

to know anuthing concerning this when questioned

by Informant.

20 41

M

ins?

NW 53932 DooId: 32308173

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DE-C

187

34л84.

4. 8

niv sopazod primoflot odd timonDiT

Informant stoted DAVIDSON OSked If MESONES CONlO

luse a "couple coses of egga for macatakata: +117/50--1850125

would not agree to use eggs.

DAVIDSON further told del PINO thot DAVIDSON could

obtain 500 Israell machine guna for del PIlo.

It is not known

by informant whether del PINO will accept this offer.

Informant stated del PINO presently out of funds

and

cannot pay for further newspaper advertisements.

del PINO

has

written unknown person Miami for junds.

Was questioned

re possibility this person ROLANDO MASFERRER, former Cuben

Senator, but

informant did not know of any connection between

del PINO and this pergon.

Informant stated MESONES and del PINO brought

together by DAVIDSON.

Informant feels del PINO not aware

that NESONES is prO-TRUJILIC, as well as anti-CASTRO. MESONES

further mentioned that an unidentified Jewish youth group

would possibly come to lashington, D. Co, from New York City,

date, number involued unknown.

Informant could furnish no information re JORGE

MECALLING GARCIA, FRANCISCO NECALLING GARCIA, LUIS de CASTROTERDE.

Knew nothing re ANTOLIN FALCON and group mentioned in New. York

City

teletype 4/14/59.

Photographs of LUIS LIMA and ROGELIO LUNA which

have been furnished to MPD will be exhibited to informant.

ENRIQUE PACHECHO COLMENARES, WO PSI re Venezuelan

mattgrs,

has furnished information set forth below and in

airtel 4/15/59 indicating he will be of value in courage

of anti-CASTRO activities.

On 4/16/59 COLMENARES contacted

SA RUBERT C. BIRNES, advising there would be o meeting of

anti-CASTRO people at Grabiel's (tailoring shop), 2914 14th

street, N. los

Purpose of meeting relating to current visit of CASTRo to

U.S. as Well da discussion of purchose of equipment to use

against current cuban regime. As set forth in UTO airtel

4/15/59 Grobiel's is operated by ANIVAL DELGADO, fOrMer

BATISTA intelligence officer, Cuban Embossy, Moshengion, D.C.

others especded to attend this meeting are:

TOTNOT CUDON MILITOrY ALLOChE JOSE (AELIO) TERRER

Tormer cuban Air Attoche, LleutenonE COlonel

JORGE GUTIERREZ

FOrmer CUbaN NOVOL AttOChe MANUEL RESOSO

NW 53932 DooId:32308173 Page 5

---

