# docid-32322252

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10379-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3750

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE :

HQ

TO : WEST GERMAN FEDERAL CRIMINAL POLICE

DATE:

05/11/1998

'PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LET

19.1

DocId: 32322252

239

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

368

NAY 00: 1998

Dr. Klaus Ulrich Kersten

West German Federal Criminal Police

Bundeskriminalamt

Thaerstrasse 11

65173 Wiesbaden, Germany

ALL INFORALA TOM CONTAINES

Dear Dr. Klaus Ulrich Kersten

I am writing to you about a matter that I believe to be important to the FBI and to the United

States people.

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, 44 U.S. C. ยง2107(Supp.

V 1994) (the Act) (copy enclosed) was enacted by the United States Congress and signed into law by

President George Bush on October 26, 1992. The purpose of the Act is to preserve and maintain all

United States governmental documents in one area, the National Archives and Records Administration

(Archives), for access to those individuals interested in the history surrounding the assassination of

President John F. Kennedy. The Act states that, "[a]ll government records concerning the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy should carry a presumption of immediate disclosure," and

requires all United States government agencies to find all documents related to the assassination and to

review and release the identified documents to the maximum extent possible to the public. The FBI

has been working diligently since 1993 to fulfill our responsibilities under the Act.

Dep. Dir.

Chief of

Staff

Off. of Gen.

Counsel

Asst. Dir.

Crim. Inv.

CJIS

The purpose of this letter is: (1) to inform you that the FBI's assassination records contain

information originating with your agency or your original documents, (2) to respectfully request that

your agency review your information for maximum disclosure to the fullest extent possible, and (3) to

oxplain the provisions fer your tequest do prolet your information dom disclose 2 8 5 - 317.900

To achieve maximum disclosure of assassination records, the Act established the JFK

Assassination Records Review Board (the Board). The Board is an independent Federal agency

charged with overseeing the identification and release of records related to the assassination from the

other Federal agencies. The FBI has assured the Board of our continued dedication of cooperating

with them to meet the objectives of the Act. In that spirit, the FBI would appreciate your agency's

review of the enclosed assassination records and consideration of whether the information can be

released

I- Director

1 - Mr. R. Bucknam

1 - Mr. P. Kelley

1 - Ms. Gawley

Firates._ I - Mr. Bryant 1 - Mr. Collingwood 1 - Mr. Campbell

1 - Ms. Wilkins

List of additional foreign agency addressees attached

1. - Ms. Keeley

1 - Ms. Sifford

National Sec.

Personnel

Training

Off. of EEOA

Off. of Public

& Cong. Affs.

Director's Office

DocId: 32322252

MAIL ROOM

Page 2

Beatly

RAINIYY

F BI/ DOJ

---

