# docid-32292282

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10058

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-374

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/04/1961

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

' RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, REL, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32292282 Page 1

372

---

## Page 2

AL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION ON

DEC. 41961 V

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Callahan_

Mr. Conrad-

Mr. DeLoach..

Mr. Evans L

Mr. Malone/

Mr. Rosen...

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel_

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy-

DEFERRED

12-04-61

7-13 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

TROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 1P

GUS ALEX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

PCI, INTERVIEWEDOTHER 4

REGARDING IDENTITY OF GUS CONTOS •

IDENTIFIED CONTOS AS A CLOSE

FRIEND OR POSSIBLE RELATIVE OF ALEX AND ALSO A FORMER PATIENT OF

IS WHO WAS SENT TO HIM BY ALEX. PCI SAID THEY CALLED CONTOS

QUOTE STUPE ENQUOTE FOR STUPID. HE SAID ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO CONTOS®

perRETURNED TO GREECE WITH MIS WIFE WHERE THEY ARE NOW RESIDING. ALEX HAS

RECEIVED MAIL FROM CONTOS IN GREECE AND WHEN ALEX AND HIS MOTHER VISITED

GREECE EARLIER THIS YEAR THEY VISITED WITH CONTOS. INFORMANT SAID

CONTOS HAD NO STATUS IN THE GAMBLING OR VICE UNDERWORLD IN CHICAGO WHEN

HERE OTHER THAN BEING A CARD DEALER OR SHILL IN CRAP GAMES. INFORMANT

SAID THESE JOBS WERE SECURED FOR CONTOS BY ALEX AND THAT CONTOS HAD

BEEN WORKING AS A CARD DEALER IN THE CHICAGO AREA FOR ABOUT TWENTY

YEARS PRIOR TO LEAVING THE COUNTRY. PCI SAID CONTOS DID NOT HAVE THE

INTE SHOE BES ONE TERE ARE AN AN US NETOR TERES.

END AND ACK PLS

8-16 PM OK FBI WA RAME;

EX- 10 EG 70

ME DEC 5

1968

64 DEC8 1961

NW 45679 DocId: 32292282

Page 2

---

