# docid-32585592

## Page 1

Date :

05/20/96

Page : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION. FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10203-10060

RECORDS SERIES

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

92-3171-2507

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, CG

TITLE

DATE

: 01/16/75

PAGES

: 4

SUBJECTS : SGI, INVEST, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 2, 4.

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/20/96

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

74 45792

DocId: 32585592

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(For]

0-73 (Rev. 1-30-74)

MESSAGE RELAY

Date

1/16/75. 500

CLASSETTE

R CO METINE (DRO)

16/8/83

PLAINTEXT

Transmit in

(plaintext or code)

via teletype the attached

FROM:

TO:

NITEL

(precedence

SEE

* * *

FIELD DISSENIN

TONION

SARSCHICAGO

AGENCIES

AT PROPRIATE

AND TIPID ONEREES

ROUTING

111010 B

SoIr

DA

Director, FBI (92-3171)

RUEADWW/

RUEADWW/

The President

The Vice President

D Att.:

RUEADWW/

| White House Situation Room

J Att.: _

RUEHOC/

RUEAIIA/

RUEKJCS/

I Secretary of State

Samuil

• Director, CIA

• Director, Defense Intelligence Agency

LEGATS:

• and National Indications Center

RUEACSI/

RUEBGFA/

RUEOLKN/

RUEADSS/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

RUEBWJA/

I Department of the Army

Department of the Air Force (AFOSI)

Naval Investigative Service

1 U. S. Secret Service (PID)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF IMVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Attorney General ( [ By messenger)

Deputy Attorney General ( [ By messenger)

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division

JAN. 1 6 1975

TELETYPE

• and Internal Security Section

• and General Crimes Section

RUEBWJA/

• Immigration & Naturalization Service

RUEOIAA/

• National Security Agency (DIRNSA/NSOC (Att.: SOO))

RUEOGBA/. Federal Aviation Administratia 0492-3171-2507

JAN 20 1975

Classification: (Classify if to other than Bureau Office)

Foreign Liaison Unit

Route throngh fansavial

Cleared telephonically

Dep. AD Adm.-

Dop. AD Int. -

Asse. Dir.:

SUBJECT SEE ATTACHED

with

Admin.

Comp. Syst. -

(8/9/94-56K)

Exr. Affairs

OsKmB/ecL

RMR:bvm (2)

(Text of message begins on next page.)

F2:

ident. -

SEe JAN ZA 1975

300049 4/12/80

q 1.46

Legal Coun.

Teleptione Rm. -

Director See'y -

MAIL ROOM E

45792

DooId: 32585592

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FIDERTIAL

SOURCE IN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE

INFORMATION IN IND

#SCORETARY OF

GOVERNNENT •FECEIVES

EPORT THAT SUBURCT HAD RETORDEO TO

CUERNAVACA CAN DISTINCTED THAT INVESTIGATION DO CONDUCTED TOL

SARMINE TA SHONE VAS ANY MUTICO THIS NEPOKCA

MEXICAN MIGRATION IS INVSTIGATING THSPREPORT BUT CONSIDERE

THAT SUBJECT MAS NOT RETURNZO IÓ CUERNAVACA BASCO ON INVESTIGATION

DEA, MEXICO

CLIYY ALSO ACLAYID A REPORI THAT SUBURCE NAM

RETURNED TO CUERNAVACAISUI HAD NO LOCUMENTATION OR CORROBORATION,

FOR THIS PETUNT d (LE)

SUBJECT OBVIOUSDY VAS IN CHICAGO DECEMBER 17,

1914. 402)

MEXICO CITY CONFLUENELALLY DETAINED COPIES Or SOME OCC

END PAGE ONS

DEWED Y FBUJEX TASS FOBCE, M

1255

Tallas 9898

TINITE

FULL

RELEASE IMPART

• TOTAL DENIAL

-2°

APPROPRTATE AGENCIES

OTFICES

ẢND F

ROUTING

ADVIS

SLIPS)

- DATE

NW 45792 DooId: 32585592

Page 3

---

## Page 4

A 2-15

PAGE 740

PEIITIONS FILED ON BEHALE OF BOLOGOT ITA

AGARGAN INdICATION.

IT HAD BEEN ROPORIED IRAT THEOS NAME FILLE BY THE ATTORNEY

JORGE, CASTILLO. BUI HIS LUNTITY SOLO NOT APPUAR ON THESE

DOCUMENTSE

ABOVE GUOTED SOURCE ADVISES THAT A NUMBEA OF OFFICIALS OF

MEXICAN ISMIGRATION ARE JANE ANT CASTILLO HAS THE ATTORNEY FOR

THE SUBJECT A HOWEVER, HE DOUBTED THAT ANY OF INESS OFFICERS

WOULD DE PLOTTED TO TASTIDY AS TO THIS INUATION. RESU

HE NOICO THAT. CASTILLO: CAID IO THE OFFICES OF MEXICAN IMMIGHATIO!

IN REPRESENTATION OF THE SUEUST DE TEE TING OR HIS DPRITGU

SUBUSCT'S IMMIGRATION FILE IS RESTRICTED BUT SOURCE IS

ATISHPIING TO REVILY IT 10 USTEROINE IN CASTILLO APPEARS AMYWAERE

THEREIN AS AITORNEY OF RECORDA

, ca

END

CONFIDENIIAL

774 45792

DooId: 32585592

Page 4

---

