# docid-32290255

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10205-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-272

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/24/1961,

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

GAL, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

19.1

DocId: 32290255

274

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

EVERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

I. S. DEPARIMIENT OF JUSTICE

ONMUMICRTIONS SECTION

JUL 2 4 1961

TELETYPE

Mr.

Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

MI. Conrad..

- ReLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malp

Mr. Rose

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter_i•

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy_

URGENT

7-24-51

6-55 PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI /92-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731 2P

GUSP ALEX, ARE ACE BATING

DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE BASH C ADVISED THAT CORNELIUS PITT, CHICAGO

ATTORNEY AND BUILDING CONTRACTOR, ADVISED HIM THAT LOUIS ARGER, AN

ASSOCIATE OF THE SUBJECT, IS SELLING HIS HOME AT SIX ONE TWO EIGHT

KEATING AVENUE, CHICAGO. PITT STATED THAT HE HOLDS A QUOPE

PONY

UNQUOTE MORIGAGE IN CONNECTION WITH ARGER/S HOME. INFORMANT STATED

THAT PITT DID NOT EXPLAIN WHAT HE MEANT BY A PHONY MORTGAGE. INFORMANT

WAS ADVISED BY PITT THAT IHE SUBJECT TOLD ARGER

REC- 15ND

TORNABENED 2

WHO OPERATES THE SANTA FE HOTEL THADHE IS

GOING TO HA

FILL THEM

UNQUOTE IF HE GETS IN. ANY TROUBLE

A FEVERNMENE JULSUFGT INDICATE

TO PITT THAT HE HAD NEVER BEEN A SUY 558594S TROUBLE WITH ELTHER LOCAL

GOVERNMENT ÄGENCIeS FOR MANY

PARS ANI

IN FACT WAS NOT EVEN KNOWN

30J AS A LEADER IN THE QUOTE OUTFIT UNQUOTE UNTIE

HE BECAME ASSOCIATED

58 JD 28196 NE

DocId: 32290255 Page 2

---

