# docid-32300765

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10277-10100

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-401762-9TH NR 152

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

04/08/1969

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

RCF, SHE, ASSOC, TRA, CHINA, POLIT AND SUBV ACT, CP

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

• 10/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection ict of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

40-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464 DooId: 32300765

Page 1

72

---

## Page 2

NY 100-42479

During conversation with TANG, CHAPMAN learned

that PERRY's office was headquarters not only for PERRY's

operations, but also for the London operations of TANG and

EPSTEIN.

TANG and EPSTEIN were supposedly in close touch

with the American scene through RICHARD C. FRANK, husband of

subject, and LEO HUBERMAN; both allegedly travelled to London

repeatedly to contact EPSTEIN and TANG.

It is noted RICHARD C. FRANK returned from London

on 10/5/03, and 1t is believed he met TANG at that time. Subject

haa also planned travel to London at the same time, but

was

unable to obtain a valid passport in order to depart as planned.

In reference to TANG, It is also noted on 5/21/59,

NY 1572-S had reported JAMES S.H.

LEE, current Editor of

the

"China Daily News"

, was very close and a favorite of TANG.

On: 8/20/63, NY 4112-S* advised subject had in her

possession a letter from TANG dated April 17, 1963, addressed to

SUE WARREN, 110 Christopher St., NYC, stating, among other

things, "We need help very much. If you and Dick can come

again,

we would be very happy indeed.

You know the working

conditions and you know the kind of people we need. It would

be most welcome if you can recommend some people for us.

And

you know the procedure.

All they have to do 1s bring a

letter

of introduction and we

shall take care of them. Expenses will

be reimbursed,.

of course.

1959.

Subject and husband had travelled to China around

Information from CIA dated March 3, 1969, captioned

"Role of the International Liaison Department in a Chinese

Mission Abroad", classified "Secret" stated LIAO Ho-shu;

former Chinese Communist Charge'd'Affaires in The Hague was

able to identify, among other individuals, TANG. Ming-chao as

an ILD officer probably concerned with the United State

LIAO also identified TANG as a personal acquaintance.

view of the above,

the Bureau may desire to

Interview LIAO

concerning his knowledge of TANG's contacts with

pro-Peking

groups in the Us, including, but not limited to the

FRANKS and JAMES LEE, as well as his knowledge of pro-Chinese

Communist publications in the US, noting TANG had been Editor

of the "China Daily News"

• NYC. (24)

- 2

NW 54464 DooId: 32300765 Page 2

---

