# docid-32290331

## Page 1

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10205-10107

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2237

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/20/1968

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

SGI, ASSOC, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290331 Page 1

265

---

## Page 2

CAS.

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE:

11-14-2017

_ OPTIQNAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107-5

MAY 1962/ADITION

GSA-GEN. REGENO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memorandum

ISEE R

SIDE F

TO

• Director, FBI (92-3171)

DATE:

12/20468s

CLASSIFIED DECISIONS FINALIZED

ACTI

FROM

Legat, Mexico City (92-13) (P) BY DEPARTEE REVIEW COMMITIRE DRE

DATE:_

CLASS.

& EXT

N6 31

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

M.

GIANCANA, aka

REASON-FCIM

1-%.4

MATE

OF REVI

W 12

ICATION

[Re Mexico City letter dated 11/14/68]MV

This office has been in contact on various

the Cuernavaca Police whe

has visited Mexico City

He has advised on

several occasions that the

house at Nubes No. 2 is definitely not for sale.

This

conflicts with the previous information furnished by

JOAN BANNISTER of the American

Embassy in Mexico City.

In subsequent contacts she has

been able to develop no

further information concerning this purported sale, but

is convinced that

the information that the house is for

sale is valid.

GUERRA advised 11/19/68 that the subject left

Cuernavaca 10/18/68 and was due back 12/10/68..

Suppose

he had gone to the United States, possibly California

This information supposedly was

his source

within the house, TOMAS SANCHEZ FLORENCIA.

This same source indicated that subject's

attorney JORGE

CASTILLO visited the house about three

times a week

E20 07318 ONV

I A& CASUAUY

dITS

arva

Also

frequent visitors are VICTOR and JAVIER

RIVERO,

Mexican brothers who own the Majestic Television

Company.

He believed subject was

white Cadillac,

More19s

Isrregistere

to

ELIZABETH GIMBEL

DEa 3t

- Bureau

(1 - Liaison

(2 -

Chicago,

Mexico C

Section)

92-349)

'CLASS

EXEMPL

ROM GDIS

CLASS

E

DEC

59

CATEGOR!

CATIONI

EFINIT

"63

4 JAN / 31969

+ D:

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

18/18/5

37

DocId: 32290331

Page 2

---

## Page 3

released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

СОЛЕВЕКНИГ

was planning to invest in Cementos Tolteca

He had meted that too wile, t

corporation

[GUERRA advised on several occasions

in his possession long distance toll charges for the

sion Long distance

that he had

telephone at Nubes No. 2. He promised on"various occasions

in person and by telephone that the

but to date has not produced them

'Ola be available,

He also indicated that SANCHEZ had addresses in

Acapulco of interest in this matter, but has failed to

produce them.

It

Is becoming more and more apparent that QuEERA

is not developing as a reliable sourced

It will be recalled that he furnished a Mexico

City license of 335 BE for an Opel reported to be at

subject's residence.

He claimed he checked this lisease

and

determined it was registered to a 1940 Buick. MEX-156,

reliable.

advised 11/13/63 that this license is registered

to a 1954 Ford

LEAD

MEXICO CITY

At Cuernavaca, Mexico

Willon the next trip to this area attempt through

inquiry with the Chief of Police and at Las Mananitas to

- 2 -

СОМЫВЕИИ

МНОГ

8502-10801

DocId: 32290331

Page 3

---

