# docid-32288009

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210T Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10198-10285

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-691

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, TP

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 03/01/1963

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, OC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

t.

v9.1

DocId: 32288009

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATES (B2V14-18H367

FBI

Date:

3/1/63

ransmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

AR

(00: Tampa)

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Re Tampa airtel to Bureau, 2/21/63.

The Atlanta office interviewed GASPER G. LAZZARA,

son of AUGUSTINE PRIMO LAZZARA, T mpa numbers lottery figure, and

LAZZARA stated he resided with

Richard VALDES, who is engaged to

be married to daughter of subject.

LAZZARA stated that he knows

that VALDES has used their telephone to call subject's daughter.

According to LAZZARA, VALDES, upon learning that LAZZARA was to

interviewed by the FBI, told LAZZARA that while VALDES was in pre-

dent school at the University of Florida, his roommate at the

University had been interviewed by the Bureau in an effort to ob-

tain information concerning subject. VALDES added that he had nở

information at all concerning the business affiliations of the

subject.

It is interesting to note that GASPER G. LAZZARA said

that his father was in the produce business in Tampa, Fla.

The NewYORK Office reported that on 2/21/63, NY 382-C-TE

advised that he had made a recent business trip to Tampa, Fla.

and while there, learned that the TRAFFICANTE Family was reported

to be in complete control of organized crime in the Tampa area.

On 2/25/63, Detective CLAYTON BRIGGS and Sgt. JACK de

la LLANA, Intelligence Unit,

Tampa PD, observed automobiles of

the following individuals parked in front of the residence of JOE

BEDAMI, recent releasee from the penitentiary and a former parther

Of FRANK DIECIDUE, one of subject's alleged lieutenants:

(3) - Bureau

] - Miami (92-88) (Info)

92-2781-

1 - Tampa

LEB/ mw

(5):

REG- 3

TEX 115.

17 MAR A 1963

C 8 = Nick

Approved! 8

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32288009 Page 2

---

