# docid-32302171

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10108

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 64-47156-249

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/25/1964

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

CC, CUBA, SOVIET BLOC COUNTRIES, CUBAN EXILE ACT,

PROPAGANDA ACT, CP ACT, MIL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

NW 45751

DocId: 32302171

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

CUTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REGANO_22

SEUMES

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum CONFIDENHAI

AL

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR,

FB

~ (64-47156)

DATE:

SEP 2 5 1964

MIAMI

(JFK) 10/1190

105-2877)

(P)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 500/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X0)(6)

CUBA!S RETATIONS WITH SOVIET BLOC COUNTYA SAY MAGA

(00:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

MOTHERVISE

Miami

Recia

OADRI

SaK)

dated and

Enclosed herewith

are nine, copiest of

a , LHME

captioned

as above-

MM T-1 is

MM. 492-S.

MIM. 7-

• PSI

(Under Development

Zantpbuilder and fisherman

OTHER 4

Possibly in confirmation ouches unro mata

furnished by the above confidential intormants

70

fact that fewer, ang fewer.

WHEN REPAIRED

groups ofpersons,

between-

723-80 as

Cuba.

Also.it

"been noted, from intervie

small, but

constan

stream of melugees, artf

United States from

om cuba, that dewer and fewer

have even

seen a Russian over the past several

months.

STAO

ME 004 2A:

3FA₴

Pontans on ele

Bureau (Епо сумни Rantu втян ай дез ні свиваца в:

(1-105-287717 HOIN HUMAN MAt BEASA:

1-134-103-sub-Atons)

(1-134774-Sub-A)

ể 1ạạg 4t:

REC 1464-411

249

ELS/al

45.

(6)

21 SEP

9 ENCLOSURE 2

SECREN X 105.

Copy, to:

CIA/State/RAO/US/KUV

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for/info.

-Dato::

3/0k, by.

NW 45751

DocId: 32302171

Page

2

---

## Page 3

CON

RE: CUBA'S RELATIONS WITH SOVIET BLOC COUNTRIES

BApput 193%

Another named was MERCEDES

RODRIGUEZ 26 years of age,

who

is studying Metallurgical Engineering In Krakow, Poland.

Cubans Foorly: Impreased with Fussians

iba

MM T-2,

a recently arrived Cuban refugee associated

with boat-bullding,

the fishing Industry, and Cuban life along

the northern coast

of Oriente, Cuba, advised on September 2,

1964, that with the exception of s

small handful of people;

the approximately 400 families who reside in Puerto Manati,

Cuba, are opposed to the Communiat regime of FIDEL CASTRO

and opposed to the presence of Russians in Cuba.

MM T-2 stated

that frequently when a group of

fishermen

gathered, one or more Russians may be included

In the group,

at which time they

would Invariably drink more

than the Cubans.

If some of the Communist Cubans present

wanted to extend themselves to be hospitable to the Russians,

they would sometimes offer the Russians something to eat with

their drinks.

On occasions this would be a can of Russian meat.

The Russian

would invariably refuse thia) meat with an

emphatie

"No" and say something which phonetically sounded like

was not clear

enough,

the Russians would

point to a dog

in the atreet, thus indicating that the tinned

meat was dog meat.

MM T-2 stated

that he and other boat builders

fishermen

. orice observed a Russian böat in Puerto Manati

were very unfavorably impressed by the Communist system.

He stated

even the local Communists found it difficult

to defend the Russians:

He stated there was one long table

on the deck of the Russian ship and the crew ate on the deck.

The Captain was the only person

on the boat with a radio, and

the crew was not allowed in his "quarters.

When the crew

ashore, they were

accompanied by an armed guard.

MM T-2 stated he and some other Cuban boat

3.

45751 DocId: 32302171

Page 3

---

## Page 4

RE: CUBA'S RELATIONS WITH SOVIET BLOG COUNTRIES

CONFIDEN

carpenters observed an oiler with & very dirty and badly

burned arm who complained

and tried to avoid having to

work.

In the sight of several Cubang,

, he was threatened

by one of the Russian superiors who raised & heavy wrench

over his head as

though to strike him

This

created a very

ant1-Russian atmosphere in that small

coastal town.

MM I-2 further recalled that one of the leading

local Communists in Puerto Manati Identified himself to the

Russian ship Captain as & member of the local Cüban Communist

Party;

he undoubtedly expected to be invited aboard the boat

but instead was coldly rebuffed and told to keep away from the

ship.

Further Evidence of Cuban - Russian Discord

MM T-3,xa former Cuban with some thirty years!

experience as both a

private and police investigator,

who

maintains contact with some Cuban

sources advised on

September 21, 1954,

that until approximately six months ago,

one frequently saw around the city of Havana and its suburbs

buses filled

with Russions who were being taken to places

of

pubile recreation such as parks, beaches,

and restaurants.

In such places,

the Russians

mingled with the people with the

help of other'

cubans.

who accompanied them,

"or Russiäng who

spoke Spanish:

The

groups were always directed by some Russian,

who acted as

the leader.

However,

over the past six or eight months, the

above custom has been discontinued and the Russians are no

longer seen at places of amusement, nöt even on the beaches

where they were formerly the

most obvious.

MM T-3 noted that in Lomas del Cura,

located on the

highway which runs between

the towns of Tapaste and Jaruco

In the province of havane, there is

a

"RussIan

camp located about

twenty kilometers away from the north coast. This camp is

4.

TAI

NW

45751 DocId: 32302171

Page 4

---

