# docid-32321621

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10377-10279

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3325

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: KC

TITLE:

DATE: 09/24/1996

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

; DocId: 32321621

235

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

(06/01/1995)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

375

1

Precedence:

To:

Kansas City

DEADLINE 10/11/1996

Date:

09/24/1996

Attn— Kevin B.

Steck,

CDC

Diane M. Hartman, PLS

From:

IRD

JFK Task Force

Contact:

Brian Fields, Room 6362, ext. 9535

Approved By: O Brien J Kevin

Drafted By: Wilkins. LuAnn M

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205

Title: JFK RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992 (The Act)

Synopsis: Kansas City is requested to conduct necessary research

pursuant to the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) letter

requiring the FBI's response by 10/21/96.

requested to send pertinent files to Headquarters/JFK Task Force as

soon as possible.

Details:

The ARRB by letter dated 9/10/96 (copy available upon

request) has requested that the FBI identify all information in FBI

assassination records that the FBI believes is under court seal.

The ARRB's interest in this matter, is to have the Department of

Justice assist in petitioning the courts to unseal the records so

the documents may be opened to the public as established by the JFK

In accordance with the ARRB letter, the FBI must identify

which jurisdictions/judges placed these records under court seal.

In the case of electronic surveillance, the ARRB also seeks

location

and the

duration of the surveillance.

Because the

background

information concerning these electronic surveillances

are maintained in the Field Office, we are requesting that the

field do the research necessary to respond to the ARRB's request.

The ARRB seeks the following information:

1) the name and jurisdiction of the judge approving the

electronic surveillance.

1962

1

62F-#Q-1029 205-3325

' DocId: 32321621 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: ' Kansas

City From: IRD

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 09/24/1996

2) any docket number or case name associated with the

information.

3)

surveillance.

the location and duration of the electronic

4) the subject of the electronic surveillance.

Please furnish this information for each

file/informant number

indicated at the end of this communication. This information may

be faxed into HQ/JFK Task Force by secure fax (202) 324-9471. This

information should be furnished to HQ by C.O.B. 10/11/96.

Pursuant to the JFKARCA any

materials considered

assassination

records

made available

to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) in their original form.

The JFKARCA defines how

the FBI may now postpone certain

information, but the originals are still sent to the NARA, to be

maintained

until the year 2017 when they are to be opened in full.

Therefore, the files will not be returned to your Field Office.

Since the

originals will be sent to NARA, copies of the files

should be made for record purposes prior to their shipment

to

Headquarters.

All files

should be received at Headquarters no

later than C.O.B. 10/11/96.

Below are the assassination records maintained in your

Field Office.

Because the copies of the documents we are working

with were put together in 1978 in no real assemblage and many with

no identifying file numbers, we are furnishing you with the best

available information possible.

If you have any questions, you may

contact Brian Fields (202) 324-9535 or LuAnn Wilkins (202) 324-9466.

Please ship the following files to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force,

Attention: Brian Fields, Room 6362.

KC92-116

KC92-116

KC94 - 150A

Sub A

serials 1395-1671

serials

72-281B

serials

223-310

2

DocId: 32321621

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Kansas City From: IRD

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 09/24/1996

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

KANSAS CITY

AT KANSAS CITY

Kansas

intormation concerning these

..0.B. 10/11/96

should

electronic

furnish

background

surveillances to HQ by

Kansas City should ship requested files to HQ/JFK Task

Force, Room 6362, Attention: Brian Fields, as soon as possible, to

be received at HQ no later than C.O.B. 10/11/96.

3

DocId: 32321621

Page 4

---

