# docid-32288482

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10258

RECORD SERIES: HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-9-1139

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/03/1962

7

THP, SGI, ASSOC, FGJ, CORRUPTION, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

V9.1

HH 45760

6

DocId: 32288482

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350

like get the (obs) out of the way, you

(obs) (obs)! If only there was somebody could

sit down with them.

What do they get outa

this?

Like a bunch a boy scouts.

HUMP says

he can't do nothin'

And sweet talkers?

You'd think here are the three nicest guys

in Chicago.

come But die

But dirty?

They would burn

their mothers if she crossed the street on

red light what with their honor!

I think

they would! (obs). I never seen MOE SO

mad! He hates that HILL anyway...

JACOBSON's remarks again concern the fact that

a surreptitious meeting between D'ARCO and GIANCANA was

interrupted by Chicago Agents during the mid-afternoon

of 11/29/62.

mention indicating that somebody from the First Ward

Organization was intending to meet with GIANCANA during

the afternoon of 11/29/62, was furnished during the late

morning of 11/29/62, by CG 6576-C*.

that CG 6498-PCI had very recently advised that he met

with GIANCANA at the Czech Lodge in North Riverside,

Illinois, it was felt by Chicago Agents that possibly

the meeting between the representative of the First

Ward and GIANCANA would also take place there, it being

noted that this PCI is a politician.

Based on this

information, SAs RALPH R. HILL, WILLIAM F. ROEMER, and

MARSHALL E.

RUTLAND proceeded to the Czech Lodge at

approximately 1:00 p.m. on 11/29/62, and observed a

car known to be frequently utilized by GIANCANA in the

parking lot of the restaurant. Feeling that little

could be lost in the way of jeopardizing either

CG 6576-C* or CG 6498-PEI, the Agents decided that

more could be gained by physically interrupting the

conference of GIANCANA with the representative of the

First Ward meeting with him.

When the Agents first went

into the restaurant, they were unable to locate GIANCANA

and his conferee but later from information furnished by

the bartender there, SA ROENER determined that they were

meeting in a private dining space.

He, therefore, went

into the private area, greeted GIANCANA with reference

to his nickname "MOE!

and shook hands with D'ARCO, it

being noted that D'ARCO has been interviewed on several

occasions by SA ROEMER. It is noted that D'ARCO pretended

*Potential Criminal Informant

- 4-

NW 45760 DooId:32288482 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

December 7, 1962

Our confidential techniques and

sources in Chicago are disclosing the almost

complete influence and control

of politicians,

police and even courts in the Chicago area by

the underworld. Giancana and his hoodlum

associates stay clear of Federal violations

in our

jurisdiction.

Our Agents are contacting

and interviewing these hoodlums and their

associates; playing one against the rother

with the objectives of causing disruption,

developing informants and causing mistakes

on which we can capitalize. SWe are

disseminating.

information of local, violations

Where we can find a trustworthy local official.

We are again sending to the Attorney General

a memorandum highlighting this corruption and

enclosed a detailed report which can be

utilized in Grand Jury hearings to begin in

During Grand Jury hearings we will

endeavor to develop (1) Federal violations,

(2) local violations, and failing these will

explore whether

JEK LaW. 10(a)2

YECEIAED

DEC 10 15 0e 6M,65

EBI

NEED OF ROMA

62-9-9-1139

HH 45760

DocId: 32288482

Page 3

---

