# docid-32301337

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10172

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-3RD NR 328

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/18/1968

7

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301337

125

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE:

• 107

11118,

11-14-2017

SECRET

1. 1:1

12/18/68

Tra

mit the following in

(Type in plaintexe or code)

AIRTEL

USIMMERTO

NMOHS ISE

BIOSIT

LETE TON

NOIIVRNOANT TIV

Via

TO

(Priority)

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-442715)] 65)

FROM

: SAG, NEW XORK 200-2549027163)

SUBJECT:

AD HOC COMMITTEE FOR A

LAST TENNISE TATE, TSA CASE

IS - CH

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLOfEL

DECLASSIF OR

FR) 6/36198

J.R.

1.0u

ReBulet, 11/14/00, requesting irom Ny a summary oi

current efforts in this operation the identities of sources

under development, comments on CG proposals

and independent

suggestions; and CGairtel to Bureau, 12/4/68.

a detailed suggestion by the NYO, which,

If completely successful, would offer the opportunity to

penetrate the

identify pro-Chicom students of sUE FRAndis attempting to

organize in Nyc,and provide Ny 1656-s an active assignment

to penetrate the Ad Hoc Committeesthus maintaining his interes

Prompt implementation of this plan by CG will be necessary,

1f

approved, and the Bureau is therefore requested to consider

• the

plan in time that approval, if grantea, will leave CG

surficient working time to initiate the operation by 12/27/68!

1706455

28194

P8MA

100-334235-

NOT RECORDEr

128 JAN 16 1969

CEL: kxb

(14)

1-15--65

22

2

LEAN

36 IN 8585 2 SECRET

TINALLY

Per

DocId: 32301337

Page 2

-1876

1700-4427/5

ORIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: I1-14-2017

CRET

POM WOOSTZKI:

The Bureau and CG are referred to NY letter to

Bureau, 11/29/68, no copies to other offices.

.. On 11/20/68,

NY 4047-S* advised that SUSAN FRANK told TOM WODETZKI, 422

W. 126th St., she had received his letter inquiring whether

she would be interested in teaching at a new school, which

would be in the nature of the Free University.

WODETZKI

informed FRANK he had obtained her name from SHARON KREBS.

FRANK stated she would not be available until the end of

saunty, course

January, 1969, that China is her field and that she had

taught a course on the thoughts of MAO at the Free University.

WODETZKI wanted her to

teach a similar five week course.

Should SUE FRANK undertake to teach such a course

for WoDeTZKI, it would present an opportunity for identifying

pro-Chicom students in her class. *to this end, the NYo

suggests a two-part program: first, to contact WODETZKI

I learn if FRANK will be teaching; second,, to enable

NY. 1656-S to attend FRANK's class, report on her speeches

and identify class members who display pro-Chicom sympathies.

More specifically,

as relates to the first part of

this program, it is recommended that CG [632ges, before

12/27/68. telephonically contact WODETZKI (telephone number

212-222-8520), advise him that the AHCSin New York has

forwarded his request for teachers, as the New York chapter

such an assignment.

"alternate university" and perhaps offer written materials

as study alds, not being able to furnish a teacher from

let them know about the classes.

in closing,

to have a speaker from NYC, SUE FRANK, in Chicago in

- 2 -

SECRED

DocId: 32301337 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREN

NY

E00-154903J(5)

mention that FRANK is someone WODETZKI might

want to contact

about teaching at hiss

"alternate university," since she is

also in NYC.

CG 6328-S would be making this call

without knowledge of

the contact between WODETZKI

and

FRANK (to protect NY 4047-S*), and in the belief he was

trying to determine if any pro-chigans were going ta

participate in WODETZKI's school.

It can

pected that CG 10328-S

ffer to notify AHC friends and Bulletin readers in NY

of

WODETZKI's school will be incentive enough for WODEIZKI t

urnish the AHC With a schedule of classes.

It can also be

expected that If CG 6328=5 mentions SUE FRANK, WODETZKI

will indicate he has already heard of her and

asked her to

teach.

WODETZKI may make some comment about whether FRANK

will, in fact, be teaching and when.

II, as a result of CG 6328-s1 contact with WODENZKI,.

it is determined SUE FRANK will teach at WODETZKI's school

in NYC, including NY 1656-s.

When NY 1656-5 reports

receipt lof AHasnotice of the class, he can be askea to

attend with the'assignment of reporting on FRANK's lectures,

-dentifying pro-Chison students in attendance, and attemptin

o determine if AHCris sponsoring the school

assignment for NY 1656-5 will enable him to be of service

in penetrating WODETZKI's school and reporting on FRANK'S

class, will, cause him to believe he is also helping to

enetrate the AHCang, will enable him auring tutur

ontacts with ce 6328=s to evidence his interest i

Marxist-Leninist study by refering to his attendance in

SUE FRANK's class. (3)

CG informants would be under the impression the

class was being advertised to Bulletin readers in the NYC

area as a means of authenticating the AHC to them as an

active Marxist-Leninist organization. Inasmuch as most

Bulletin readers in NYC are on the NY mailing list, the

actual number of readers to whom the notice of the class

is sent can be limited without CG informants knowing, to

notify only-those readers about whom NY hopes

to

gather

current data through the efforts of Ny 1656-s.

- 3-

SECREU

DocId: 32301337 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

NY I00-154902 (5)

It is noted WODETZKI plans registration for his

courses to be from 1/6-10/69; the mailing of notices of

the classes to Bulletin readers should accordingly be

accomplished by 1/6/69, at the latest

Nould necessitate the contact between cases requirement

WODEIZKI take place by 12/27/68, with preparation of the

class advertisement by

CG and distribution to NY for

mailing by 1/3/69.

SUE WARREN FRANK:

The NYO has recently lost the services of NY 4047-S*,

who would be in a position to furnish considerable

information concerning FRANK's contacts after her return

from Mexico in January, 1909 mand before and after her

proposed trip to chicago in february, yogs to appear ai

speaker before the AHOssponsored mass meeting.

To proceed

with this meeting without the concurrent

use of the source

will lessen the potential

of the mass meeting as an

intelligence gathering operation.

The NYO intends to

request that this source

be used again from the time of

SUE FRANK's return from Mexico until after the mass meeting

in Chicago, in an effort to determine the purpose of FRANK's

trip to mexico, her evaluation of the mass meeting in

Chicago,

and any significant contacts she makes in

preparation for or as a result of the mass meeting in

Chicago.. The use of this source may also enable us to

assess more accurately the degree of success of the meeting

and thus be an important factor in determining whether the

Chicago informants should engage in further open work

As discussed above, SUE FRANK may be preparing to

teach a course for the

"alternate university" which TOM

WODETZKI is trying to organize in NYC:

(S) In addition, by maintaining contact with WODEIZKI,

the AHC. may receive from him the schedule for any class

taught by. SUE FRANK.

Knowledge of this schedule may help

4

-

SECRET

DocId: 32301337 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

SECRET

NY 100-154902](5)

CG avoid a conflict of dates with the mass meeting in

Chicago,

which

would require FRANK to choose between the

two activities.

INTERNATIONAL CONTACTS:

(u)

the international contacts proposed by cG appear

to constitute an agressive program for

authentication of the Ad Hoc Committee Sland the NYO

elieves this could be the basis for an important an

ctive role for the AHCef and when Canada recognize

Communist China and thé Chicoms attempt to mount a third

country operation against the USA from Canada s

PENMAN: (5)

With respect to Chicago's request concerning the

placing of PENMAN In contact with the Ad Hoc Committee,/(s)

NYO is of the opinion that the same factors which

militated against such anearrangement in the past continue

In NY letter to Bureau dated 3/7/68 captioned

if she were to broaden her pursuits too greatly and thereby

deviate from the norm of behavior of other UN correspondents Is

This threshold has now been crossed and (PENMAN_S)

Is presently a trusted member of the Chinese interpeters'

"family" at the UN. PENMAN is the only non-Chineserto

accomplish total acceptance by this group, and as a result

has furnished setailed information on the

activities of

FAN Chia-ching and other principal UN subjects There has

Sf a flaw in her cover, and her acceptance by

ninese has been based on her interest in Chinese Steople.

and culture.

other informants are a very clannish, close-mouthed group

- 5 -

SECRET

DocId: 32301337 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREU

NY

[00-154902](5)

group, extremely limited and wary in their contact with

non-orientalspand it is not felt that this attituge I

conducive to productive contact between UN Chineseran

the Ad Hoc Committeen the forseeable future. LUN Chinese JS)

show no inclination to propagandize for or recruit supporters

of China.

Informant states that they regard most westerners

with a superior or contemptuous attitude.

rapport. which has required so much effort and patience by

informant to establish.

Nyo can see no benefit at the present time to be

gained from joining the PENMAN and Ad Hoc operations, 5)

since both endeavors have been successful separately.

Connecting the two would, in New York's opinion, only serve

to endanger the security of each

NY 1656-S: 7

Y believes that it is essential to give NY 1656-s

some active role as a follow-up to the contact with CG 6328-s

Tast summer, to maintain his interest. The plan outlined

herein for determination

WORRIKI'S schoe by do feato schedule of classes for

and penetration e

FRANK's class bysay 1050-5,7

Would remain unaware of the

true intelligence nature of

Ehis operation. (5)

Former NY 5244-PSI:

NY will maintain contact with Former NY 5244-PSI

and bealert for any opportunity to make use of his services

n connection with this operation. (s)

IBERATION SCHOOL:

1(4)

Although no correspondence has been received to

date from anyone who can be identified as a reader of the

e(4)

- 6 -

SECREC

DocId: 32301337 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SFCRET

NY

[00-154902](5)

Bulletins mailed to the Liberation School, NY intends to

leave the Liberation School on the mailing list for several

more mailings.

Consideration will be given at a later

date to enclosing a reader preference form with the Bulletin

mailed to the Liberation school, in hopes of prompting a

response.

If the Burealand CG concur with the recommendation

for contact by CG L6328=s with TOM WODENZKI and limited

advertisement of WODETZKI's school to NYC Ad HoC Bulletin

readers, NY

intends to include the Liberation School in the

ad mailing.

...=7.=

SECRET

DocId: 32301337

Page 8

---

