# docid-32288653

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10199-10429

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-66742-252

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/13/1964

4

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

PAL, ASSOC, THREAT, EGAN, JAMES W.

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T, LHM

v9.1

HW 45966 DocId: 32288653

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 10-29-63)

FBI

Date: : 3/13/64

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority)

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mobr...

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans..

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen /

Mr. Sullivar

Mr. Tavel ..

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy.

Montou

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742)

SAC, CHICAGO (87-19740)

CHARLES WILLIAM

BRAY ;

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, aka;

ET AL

ITSP; MF; ITAR - EXTORTION

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

00: MIAMI

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

Enclosed to the Bureau and Miami are four

PATE 1/28/86 BY sprunes

copies each of a letterhead memorandum (LHM) setting

forth

information furnished by PCI

on

/OTHER

3/9/64.

It is called to the Bureau and Miami's attention

that the information furnished by this PCI should not

be divulged to any unauthorized person inasmuch as a

+.

possibility exists that ALDERISIO has only furnished this in-

formation to this PCI and should the same get back to

ALDERISIO, this PCI could be killed.

Miami should hand carry the attached LHM to

Departmental Attorney PELOQUIN in

instructions.

REcordance to Bureau

ALDERISIO AND TRAFFICANTE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED

87-66742-2521

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

4 ENCLOSURE

10 MAR 18 19

-1535

3 - Bureau

(Encls.

4) (RM)

2. - Miami (87-16480)

(Encls. 4) (RM)

1 - Chicago

CAH: ptc

AAG-Crim

(6)

I. C. Wick

nin/coisfitmatimes.

specret Fabon/ Dest

3/10/64

Approved:

Wafe EE Special Agent in Charge

son estran

512-

WAF/Ken

1.8k

4-Pppper

NW 45966 DocId: 32288653

Page 2

---

## Page 3

UI

'ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF USTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

chicago,

Illinois

Barch 13,

2964

CHARLSO WILLIAN BRAY

FELIX AVERONY ALDERISIO, also kaown as

SANZO TRAPPACONES, 38,.

also known as

PAN AMERICAR BANK OF MIANE, FLOBIDA - VICTIN

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN PROPIRTY

MAZE TRAUD; INTERSTATE TRANSPORTAZION IN

AID OF BACKETEERING - EXTORTION

Thin Surban has seceived the folloring

information

on an extrenoly confidential basis concerning the activities

of Felia Anthony Aldertelo:

Within the past for vects Alderialo is reported to

have requested one of his assootates to accompany him,. Alderssio,

to Florida for the Andleated purpose of breaking an arn or leg

of o banker identified as Jemen . Egan, and thereby preventing

Bgan tron teststying agatest Alderiato.

The assoctate of Alderieto's de belloved to have

doeltaed this request as ho ven afraid to get deeply lavolved

+.

in cho activities of Alderiato.

The nource of this information

has doceribod Alderisto as a violent and viciouse man who woule

not perait anyone to stand in his nay.

This document contalus nosther reconvendations non

conclanions of the FbI..

It to the property of tho val and is

lonned to your agency; (it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agoney.

ALEINFORMATION CONTAINED

HERENTS GARLASSIFTED

01E 1/28/86 8858y Eulet

da N

HW

45966

DocId: 32288653

Page 3

---

## Page 4

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

March 13, 1964

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, also known as

also known as

MAIL FRAUD; INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION IN

AID. OF RACKETEERING - EXTORTION

This Bureau has received the following information

on an extremely confidential basis concerning the activities

of Felix Anthony Alderisio:

Within the past few weeks Alderisio is reported to

have requested one of his associates to accompany him, Alderisio,

to Florida for the indicated purpose of breaking an arm or leg

of a banker identified as James W. Egan, and thereby preventing

Egan from testifying against Alderisio.

The associate of Alderisio's is believed to have

+ -

declined this request as he was afraid to get deeply involved

in the activities of Alderisio.

The source of this information

has described Alderisio as a violent and vistouss man who would

not permit anyone to stand in his way.

This document contains neither recommendations noi

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is

loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be-

distributed outside your agency.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

MERE IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 1/28/96 BY sprawled

NY 45966 DocId: 32288653 Page 4

---

## Page 5

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF VUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

March 13, 1964

CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY

FELIX ANTHONY ALDERISIO, alSO

known as; SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.,

also known as; PAN AMERICAN BANK

OF MIAMI, FLORIDA -VICTIN

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEI

PROPERTY; MAIL FRAUD; INTERSTATE

TRANSRORTATION

AN AID OF RACKETEERING -

EXTORTION

A confidential

source advised that approximately

three weeks ago Phil Alderisio asked him if he would

accompany him, (Alderisio), to Florida.

occasion advised that this source would be well paid if he

made this trip and would also be well paid if he should

"Get to the right people in Florida".

This source stated

that Alderisio was referring to a banker known as James W.

Egan in Florida who has "Alderisio over a barrel"

This

source stated that Alderisio by his comments meant that

some force should be used against the banker, such as

breaking a leg or farm, which would prevent him from

testifying against Alderisio.

This confidential source stated that he "turned dowin"

Alderisio's request inasmuch as he was afraid to get deeply

involved with him in his activities.

This confidential source added that Alderisio

is a violent and vicious man, who would not permit anyone

to stand in his way.

This document contains neither recommendations nor

conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and

is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be

al copie

-ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERON IS UNCLASCIRIEO

NW 45966 DocId: 32288653 Page 5

---

