# docid-32271013

## Page 1

￾v09-16-96ccr

JEK RECORDS

Cross Reference: None

Status in System:

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10141-10209

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 13-09-02

Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : HSCA

FROM : CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 03/03/78

PAGES

6

DOCUMENT TYPE : NOTES

SUBJECT (S)

:; ¿ CIA, FILES;

CLASSIFICATION * UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS

POSTPONED IN PART

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 08/01/95

COMMENTS : Box 5

Date in: 01/26/96

TTFFFFFE

FFFFFF

F F

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 47055 Date:

10-11-2017

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

47055

DocId:32271013

Page

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

MAR 31

FROM:

Rodger S

Gabrielson

OLC/CER

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

touchild

OP

RM 2D0109

3 Pestes Hal

(an)

"Bill'Sturbitts!")

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SI

PRIORITY

10 07 1H78

EXTENSION

1133

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

123

FORWARDED

⅗))

dja

to 1600

NO.

OLA 78-1065/6

DATE

21 March 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from wharr

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1-2

Pis in telen, poles ther

suino attached

rian i reques gullet

DORis -

55 - 13

P/s- See Clipped Poses &

deferious

Kass Holmes

10.

"dorie Handeskelet

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USEDIRENS

PREVIOUS

SECRET

Take.

Please souvard Du Sanitizer

ajay Is c after your sliens

Fee bal we put it,

ox 1958.

Ales, if you make further

Done w

Pnssed Rage

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

47055

DocId: 32271013 Page 2

---

## Page 3

3L

OLC 78-1065/6

21 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM

SUBJECT

Kent Cargile

OP

: Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/C&R

• Sanitization of HSCA Researcher Notes

1. (S)

Attached for your review, appropriate sanitization, and

classification is a copy of the notes taken by HSCA researcher Dan

Hardway on the file of E. Howard Hunt.

2. (U) Please use black grease pencil to excise and directly above

the excised information please write in a sanitized description of the

information excised, for example: employee, asset, etc.

Please send

us a copy of the notes after your sanitization and we will forward to the

Committee.

3. (U) If you have completed your review and you feel there is

operational information upon which you cannot make a proper judgment

please handcarry to Mr. Shepanek, O/SA/DO/0,

2D0109. Mr. Shepanek

will assure that a proper review of such information by the DDO is made

in accordance with the above procedures.

4. (U) All original notes will be kept in this office under the name

of the particular researcher involved.

todse S. Dabrielson

Rodger'S. Gabrielson

Attachment:

As Stated

SECRET

{=2.:roii c: 3r.32303

47055

DocId: 32271013 Page

3

---

## Page 4

Summary: OP file oN E. HowAod Hunt

propAczal Gy: DAN AtArdWAy

3/15/78

ORiGiNK

Do NaT RelersE

NW 47055 DocId:32271013 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

Hunt's Personal file 1

SErVICES DiViSiON from Hunt

had duodenal ulcer in.

October 1944 which he

attributed to..

'Alligency failine to assiga me

to anappropriate portabroad

followina

in Print a pandication

equivalent, he says to $3-54

assignment as Chief of CAfor SE

-he sees itara dead end

_jolt in a meno dated 1/6/65

ReleAsE

HH 47055

Docld:32271013

Page 5

---

## Page 6

-2-.

2 Contract Information and Chack.

hist dated 24 fune 19/5 saus

that Hunt is assigned to

Madrid an a "uv" funds

His legal residence is listed as

has Farida Macarena

istotransported for use in

operational travel. Operatioral

expension piphaeli ment

are okayed "when anthorized".

Notification of Establishmentof.

Militar

Element, Comparite Operations

Nuents resignation.

4. Memo from OGC to Chief/

Contract Pessonnel Dision

days that Huht. is under

light cover as as retired foreign

derrce@ffice.olated 8/1Z/65

HH 47055 DocId:32271013 Page 6-

---

## Page 7

3

Memo for the record l

romas Karamestinesdated

"ItuntIon instructions of the

DCIan

converted to contract emplay

mentandassigned to spain a

bor a special undertaking en

chalk of the DDP. de left hor

the is us 192 110d haun

conjeleted his assignment

successfully ofan evaluaties

is work durin

this period.

of time he should be rated as

'stong".

wedivision

operational sensitivity. of

HH 47055 DocId:32271013 Page 7

---

## Page 8

9

SAN

-4-

7. Fitness Report dated 4/13/63

sighed by 1. A Cunninghans

Dutizsfor period 0f 3/62-3/63

a supenised all 000 propo

ganda operatians

b. projectofficer for two

"Congeats;

as required to coordinate

DODS foreignand domestic

propadanda operations."

Fitnias Leport 3/633/04 dated:

5/26/04 signed lu

Alanter

H. Maines. - had Sameduties

Standard letter from DCI

on retirement dated 5/6/70

signed "Dick" -unitten acrose

bottom in sane hama.+.

ame pin: "Hood Luck and

Best Wishes!"

HH 47055

DocId:32271013 Page 8

---

