# docid-32327589

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/9/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90064-10160

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

87-15374-124

Released under the John'

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note) .

Casef:ND 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LA

HQ

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/31/1953

3

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v91

174 54462

DocId: 32327589

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

CC

7

5686

RV

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICASIS

IEAICATIRNS SECTRA

JUL 3 LIES

P Ni

FBI, LOS ANGELES

74X5X58X. 7-31-53

X:: 12-55 AM PEST.

BIRE bIRECTOR, FBI AND SACS, PHOENIX AND SAN ANTONIO

URGENT JE

VICTOR EMANUEL®

PEREIPA, WAS. EUGENE HO BRADING, WAS, MRS. GERTRUDES

J. JOYCE - VICTIM. ITSP, MAIL FRAUD, CONSPIRACY. RELATEL TO BUREAU

AND DENVER JULY TWENTYNINE LAST, LA AIR-TEL TO BUREAU JULY TUENTY

SEVEN LAST, AND REP OF SA HUGH J. PHARIES AUG. FIFTEEN, TIFTYONE, EL

PASO, TEXAS. LA THREE SIX TUO SIX DASH C ADVISED THIS: DATE PEREIRA

AND ART CLARK, BUSINESS ASSOCIATE OF PEREIRA AND SON OF ARTHUR LO

CLAEK, FBI NUMBER THRES SEVEN NAUGHT NINE TWO FIVE EIGHT, GAMBLER

FROM MIAMI BEACH, FLA., WERE LEAVING BY TWA AIRLINE, LA INTERNATIONAL

AIRPORT, FOR PHOENIX, ARIZO, TWO FORTY PM THIS DATE AND SHE WOULD

ACCOMPANY PEREIRA, CLAK, MRS. PEREIRA, AND FRANKIE HARUELL, GIRLSRIEND

OF BRADING, TO DEPARTURE. LA TUDES SEX TWO SIX DASH C ADVISED CLARX

AND PEREIRA WOULD STAY IN PICENIX UNTIL JULY THIRTYONE NEXT WHEN

PEREIRA WOULD DEPART FOR SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, RETURNING LA NIGHT AUG.

ONE NEXT. PEPEIRA AND CLARK OBSERVED BY LA AGENTS TO DEPART ON TWA

FLIGHT NINETYTWO FROM LA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT TO PHOENIX. PEREIRA

• AND CLARK ACCOMPANIED

SAND FRANKIE HARVELL. AMERICAN AIRLINE

EX-609

-cem

153244124

"AS TO RESERVATIONS FOR HIMSELF AND QUOTE HASLAM UNQUOTE ON AMERICAN®

NW 54462 DooId: 32327589 Page 2

---

## Page 3

7

Г

PAGE TWO

AIRLINE FLIGHT NINE FIVE THREE FROM SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, TO LASTLIGHT

LEAVING SAN ANTONIO AUG. ONE NEXT, FIVE FIFTYSIVE PM, ARRANG LA

EIGHT THIRTYFIVE PM SAME DATE. LA THREE SIXTUO SIX DASH C ADVISED

THIS DATE AT APPROXIMATELY SEVEN FORTY PM CUARK CALLED FROM ADAMS HOTEL

PHOENIX, ARIZO, AND SHE TALKED TO PEREIRA: AND CLARK. CLARK STATED

HE AND PEREIRA TO SELL COSMETIC DISPENSING MACHINES WHILE IN PHOENIX

AND PEREIRA LEAVING FOR SAN ANTONIO JULY THIRTYONE OR AUG ONE: NEXT

LA CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE ADVISED MRS. FRANKIE HARVELL, GIRLFRIEND OF

ERADING, CONTACTED BY GO TO HASLAM, LAURAL WOOD HOSPITAL, IN CARE OF

WOODLAUN: AND FLORES, SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, ON OR ABOUT JULY TUENTYFOUR

LAST. FOR INFO. SAN ANTONIO AND PHOENIX, PEREIRA RA AND BRADING

CONVICTED USDO, EL PASO, TEXAS, JAN. FIFTEEN, FIFTYTWO, AND SENTENCED

TO TWELVE YRS. WRIT OF CERTIORARI GRANTED JUNE EIFFEEN LAST. AT

PRESENT PEREIRA AND GRADING EACH ON FIFTEEN: THOUSAND. DOLLAR BOND AWAIT-

ING DECISION SUPREME COURT. BRADING-S PRESENT WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN.

"BUREAU DESIRES TO BE ADVISED OF SUBJECTS WHEREABOUTS AND ACTIVITIÉS

AT ALL TIMES AND ADVISED ALL OFFICES BE ALERT TO POSSIBILITY SUBJECTS

COMMITTING FUTURE FEDERAL VIOLATIONS. LA THREE SIX TWO SIX DASH C

ADVISED SHE VISITED SUBJECT BRADING-S APT. AT NINE SIX FOUR NINE W

OLYNPIC BLUDO, LA, THIS DATE ACCOMPÁNIED BY CLARK, UHO STATED HE

SHAFED APT. WITH BRADING PRIOR TO DEPARTURE OF CLARK AND PEREIRA.

PHOENIY ASCERTAIN ANY PLANE RESERVATIONS MADE BY PEREIRA FOR SAN ANTONIO

AND SUTEL SAI ANTONIO. PHOENIX DO NOT MAKE INQUIRY AT ADAMS HOTEL TO

ENO

PAGE THO

87-15374-124

NW 54462 DooId: 32327589 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CC

7

5686 MN•2

7

PAGE THREE

PROTECT INFORMANT SINCE PEREIRA AND CLARK-S PRESENT HEREABOUTS ONLY

KNOUN TO LA THREE SIX TUO SIX DASH C. SAN ANTONIO DISCRESTLY ASCERTAIN

IDENTITY OF S. F. HASLAM, ABOVE ADDRESS, FOM POSSIBILITY OF HASLAM

BEING SUBJECT BRADING AND ASCERTAIN IF PEREIRA CONTACTS SUBJECT BRAD-

ING WHILE IN SAN ANTONIO. SIN ANTONIO, WILL ADVISE BUREAU, EL, PASO,

AND LA ACTIVITIES OF PEREIRA WHILE IN SAN ANTONIO AND ADVISE LA OF

PEREIRA-S PLANE RESERVATIONS FOR RETURN TO LA: PHOENIX AND SAN ANTONIO

PREVIOUSLY

FURNISHED COPIES OF REFERENCED REPORT AND PHOTOGRAPHS: OF

PEREIRA. PEREIRA DESCRIBED UMA, AGE THIRTYRIVE, SIX TO ONE AND ONE

HALF IN., TWO HUNDRED TEN LBS., BROWN HAIR, COOD LOOKING, UELL DRESSED,

HAS GEARING THIS DATE SUNMER WEIGHT LIGHT TAN SUIT, WHITE NYLON SHIRT,

BROWN AND WHITE TIE, SPORT SHOES, DARK BROWN SUN GLASSES, NO HAT,

CLARK DESCRIBED AGE TUENTYTUO, FIVE FT. SIX IN. TO FIVE IT. SEVEN*

IN., ONE HUNDRED FORTYFIVE LBS., BLACK HAIR, DARK COMPLEXION. SWÄS

WEARING THIS DATE DARK SLACKS, LIGHT SPORTSHIRT. INQUIRIES AND SUR-

VEILLANCES MUST BE DISCREET TO PROTECT INFORMANTES IDENTITES

- EL FASO ObiciN

MALONE

END AND ACK IN O PLS

WA

4-O8AM OK FBI WA E'S

PX. OK FBI. PX CS

SA

OK FBI SA EEM

DISC PLS

M

87-15874-124

10:

HH 54462

DocId: 32327589

Page 4

---

