# docid-32289472

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10201-10248

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-527

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/13/1962

3

LST, RES, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

DocId: 32289172 Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel?

DATE: 11-14-2017

4041 (Rev., 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLod

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Radio

Teletype

DEFERRED

' 4-13-52

TO PIRECTOR AND SAGS MIAMI AND SAN JUAN

FROM SAC TAMPA

131610

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. AKA, AR, DAILY TELETYPE.

CS TP 51-C AND SPOT PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCES SUBJECT

RESIDENCE NEGATIVE FOR ANY ACTIVITY APRIL 12 LAST.

SAN JUAN ADVISED MIAMI AND TAMPA BY COMMUNICATION

DATED APRIL 11 LAST IN A MATTER CAPTIONED JOSEPH MANGONE,

PHILIP JAWORSKY, AKA JERRY BROOKS, AR, THAT A SOURCE MET

MANGONE, JAWORSKY, AND AN ITALIAN

INDIVIDUAL ABOUT TWO

WEEKS AGO WHO WERE INTERESTED IN LEASING A HOTEL CASINO.

THE ITALIAN INDIVIDUAL ADVISED HE FORMERLY HAD AN INTEREST

IN HAVANA HILTON, HAVANA, CUBA. AT SAME TIME J. BROOKS,

Jo SILESI, AND JO MANGONE WERE REGISTERED SAN JUAN INTER-

CONTINENTAL HOTEL.

ON APRIL 9 LAST MANGONE CALLED ONE V. BRUNO, MIAMI,

FLORIDA TELEPHONE EL 8-3766. PHOTOGRAPH OF SUBJECT

DISPLAYED TO SOURCE IN SAN JUAN IN VIEW OF NAME V. BRUNO

AND ACCORDING TO POI

SUBJECT APPEARED IDENTICAL TO THE

ITALIAN INDIVIDUA

RECA 44

97-2781-527

TAMPA FILES REFLECT JOSEPH SILEST, AKA TOERIVERS,

9 APR 18 1962

gl

t.

APR

231

96

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32289472 Page 2

---

