# docid-32307345

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2824-44, 45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DRAIN, VINCENT E.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/11/1958

9

JFC, SUBPOENA, TEST, MCCLELLAN SENATE COMMITTEE,

ASSOC, ATTORNEYS, BUSS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45754 DocId: 32307345

Page 1

---

## Page 2

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2824)

DATE: 8/11/58

Appo

SAC, DALLAS (92-36)

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH PRANCIS CIVELLO, waS.

ANTI-RACKETEERING

00 - Dallas

Enclosed is report of SA VINCENT E. DRAIN, 8/11/58,

at Dallas.

REFERENCES

Reports of SA VINCENT E. DRAIN, 5/23/58 and 6/10/58,

at Dallas.

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

Will maintain close liaison with local law enforcement

officers and other individuals who are in a position to furnish

names of persons who might develop information of importance

concerning the subject.

Will through informants attempt to develop persons

who would be in a position to furnish pertinent information

regarding the subject and his present activities.

acquaintances of the subject in an effort to develop the most

logical of these Into PCIs and informants.

Will maintain close contact with PCI

a close associate of subject, in an effort to obtain

other individuals who may be aware of subject

activities.

54

Will maintain close contact with PCI

in an

effort to develop further activities of the subject and also

names of other individuals who may be in a possession to furnish

information relative to CIVELLO.

2

Bureau

2

- Dallas

VED: jh

(4)

OSURE

2 7 195

(Encls.2)

REC- 54

92-3824-45

21 AUG 14 1958

EX- 10%

EX-108

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

•ladies

NW 45754 DocId: 32307345

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

.. DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

Oftice of Origia

DALLAS

Date

811/58

Report made by

VINCENT E. DRAIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

Lavestigativo Period 6/5, 6, 23, 24,30;

7/8,15,23/58

Typed By:

JH

JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, was.

Synopsis:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

CIVELLO presently under subpoena to appear before the

McClellan Senate Investigating Committee, Washington, D. C.

No definite date set for CIVELLO's appearance.

According to

not engaged in any illegal activities at present time.

CIVELLO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

• - P -

DETAILS:

AT DALLAS, TEXAS

=

Approved

Copies made:/

ASSOCIATES

The New York Division advised the following information

on June 30, 1958, which was obtained by SA JOHN E. FOLEY.

Confidential Informant T-l furnished the following

information concerning telephone numbers called from Dallas, Texas.

Telephone number WH 6-4770 1s listed to ROCCO

PELLEGRINO, 16 Barker Avenue,

White Plains, New York. It is

Special Agent

in Charge

Do not write in spaces below

2 - Bureau

2 - Dallas

(92-2824)

(92-36)

92/2824-

44

REG- 54

STÁT. SẾCT.,

Property of FBl - This report is loaned to you by the FBi, and neither it nor its contenta are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1956 0—-385319

NW 45754 DocId: 32307345 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DI: 92-36

...

INFORMANT PAGE

T-1 18 EDWARD L. BRAUNE of the New York Telephone

Company, New York City.

I-2 1s PCI HODGES DUBOIS HAMILTON.

T-3 is PCI

T-4 1S WILLIAM CRAIG, Vice President and Cashier,

Exchange Bank and Trust Company, Dallas; Texas.

NW 45754 DocId: 32307345

Page 4

OTHER 4

---

