# docid-32305559

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10189

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-118932-1, 2, 3

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HEITMAN, WALLACE R.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/07/1963

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS:

CC, AULET, ANTONIO ARTURO HILARIO NAVARRO, RES,

EMOLOYMENT, CUBAN INVASION, ACA, CUBAN REFUGEE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF INS

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS, INC 2 RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32305559

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DI 105-1453

that he, LEYVA, had participated in the abortive invasion of Cuba

in April 1961 and)was most anxious to assist the U. S. Govern.

ment in any way possible to determine if there were Cubans in

the United States who, because of their political beliefs, or

for other reasons might cause a threat to the

a security.

of

the

United States.

(LEYVA stated NAVARRO had reportedly made statements

indicating he had conducted an investigation on behalf"

"of CASTRO

into the abortive Bay of Pigs invasion. (LEYVA]sald it was

suspicious that NAVARRO had served in the Cuban militia as late

as April 1961 and was now residing in the United States as a

refugee: (LEYVA)said e did not

personally know NAvArRo.

FRANCISCO LEYVA was recontacted on September 27, 1962,

October

31, 1962, and again on February 12, 1963, for any further

information he may have acquired concerning his suspicions con

cerning NAVARRO with negative results.

On September 13 1962, (DELFIN LEYVA, who resides at

(2212 Kirby Street with his brother, FRANCISCO, supra,

and is an

employee of Curtis-Hathes] advised he neither knew NAVARRO in

noris well acquainted with him in Dallas, but does know

him by sight and reputation. _DELFINstated NAVARRO 1s a close

associate of one JORGE RODRIGUEZ, an employee of Curtis-Mathes,

and that both of these persons are suspected by other Cubans who

work at this factory of being not completely anti-CASTRO and

possibly in favor of the present regime in Cuba because of the

fact that they entered the United States at such

a late date and

because they have made statements which indicate that CASTRO

would be a good

head of

state if he were not a communist.

SA S. BYE REEDER, JR., examined the Inmigration file

of NAVARRO, No. A12 891 454, on December 1l, 1962, which was made

available by Investigator CHARLES R. CHALLANDES, and the following

information concerning NAVARRO was reflected therein: This file

Is maintained' at Miami, Florida:

• 2

DocId: 32305559 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 105-1453

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 F-

Status:

Entered U. S. 3/2/62, at Miami,

Florida, via PA Flight 422, Passport

No. 31779, no Visa, Visa waived.

Paroled Indefinitely, 3/3/62:

Calle J #108 Vedado, Havana, Cuba

528 NE 62nd Street, Miami, Fla.

Residence in

Cuba:

Temporary

Residence in

US:

Born:

Occupation

15 Cuba:

Military

Service:

Marital

Status:

Father:

Mother:

5/26/15, Las Villas, Cuba

Railroad Worklic) Navarro

ANTONIO, NAVARRO CABRERA

HORTENSIÀ AULET PERRAXO

cuba

Friend

in

US:

FRAN

LLUSA, C/O PEREZ Trading Post

Compa

15 Moore Street, MerM

Handwritten notes of INs intervlewer dated 3/3/62; ElE

reveals following information:

Subject accompanied by his wife to Join two children_

in U.S, since 1960. Previously In US for short visite as.

a tourist; no other forelgn travel; speaks Spanish only

Education

Cuban Government, employed as

ment employed ad schola wore are:

Never in regular military service, but

¡ Militia for 5 months,

from January to June, 1961,

obligatory.

, because being

railroad worker,

In Cuba for two hour ko arrest record, but was detatned by G-?

Party

Never registered with PSP or Communist

Subject

seeking political refuge In

us and to Join his

family

Miami indices checked 11/4/62, reveal no identifiable

record

3 -

DocId: 32305559

Page 3

---

