# docid-32297763

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10039

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-224

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: SAC. MM

TITLE:

DATE: 12/10/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

12/05/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32297763

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released inder the John F Kennedy Ascergination Records COllection Act of 1992,444 USe 2107 Ugter

DATE: 10614-2017

P TRISONE DEC TO:

ISRECIOR (300173717

UNSUBS, SUSPECTED BOMBING OF.

SUSANA AIRLINES DE-S REAR BARBADOSS

WEST INDIES OCTOBER 6O 1976.

NM - CUBA • WEST INDIES.

ReciPienTs

FOR ME INFORMOTION OF FUE BUSIN, LECAT, CARACAS, ON

DECEMBER 8, 1976, RECEIVED TO STRICT CONPIDENCE FROM SUB-COMMISSIONER

CARLOS PASSRI, DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTIVE SERVICES

(DISIP), CARACAS, VENEZUELAS A COPY OF INE INVESTIGATIVE REPORT OF

BRITISH SAROTAGE EXPERT ERIC NEWION NEWTON TOLD FABERI IN PERSONAL

COUVERSATIONS TRAT ME WAS CONVINCED THE CUBAMA AIRPLANE WAS, IN

FACT, SABOTACED; THE EXPLOSIVE USED WAS NITROGLYCERINE BASED,

PROBABLY DYNAMITE; IHAT FIRE FOLLOWED THE BLAST; AND INE EXFLOSIVE

HAD DEZU PLACCO IN THE AFT CARSO POLO OF THE AIRCRATT, 5

AMBASSADOR AND COTA STATION, CORARASIERE. 6

MEWTONE REPORT AND COMMERCS GE SUS COMNECOIONSE FISARE POLLOW

BY POUCH MES

BT

New A

CARBON COPY DO NOT TILE

-2-

SECRET

2-2173-224

DocId: 32297763

Page 2

---

