# docid-32300746

## Page 1

Date :

01/21/99

Page

:.

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10277-10081

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 92-3267-410

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45945 Date:

11-17-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, LA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE : 01/08/63

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS

: JRO, ASSOC, TRA, TELCAL, FINANCES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4, SECTION 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/21/99

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

174 45945

DocTd: 32300746

Page

---

## Page 2

LA

92-113

IA 4396-C* has furnished information that

ROSSELLI has been in contact with a girl believed to be

SHARON ANN JOHNSON, on several occasions during the past

four or five days.

According to this informant, this

girl planned to spend the past week end In Las

Vegas, Nevad

and to return to Los Angeles on Sunday evening 1/6/63

It has been learned that SHARON ANN JOHNSON has

service with Call Nina, Inc., a telephone answering service.

Check of her calls beginning 11/1/62 reveals several calls

irom MAURICE FRIEDMAN, but none from ROSSELLI. However.

she

received a number of calls from a man who would refuse

to leave his name or telephone number and these could well

be calls from ROSSELLI.

On 1/4/63, SHARON's brother,

left a message for her

• to call him

when she returned from

Las Vegas.

LA 4268-C advised ROSSELLI was at the Friar's

Club in Beverly Hills on the afternoon of Friday, 1/4/63

and was with IRVING J. LEFF, part-owner of the New Frontier

Hotel, Las Vegas.

This informant also observed ROSSELLI at the

Friar's Club on the afternoon of 1/7/63 playing cards.

Informant was at the club from about 4:15 p.m. until

5:55 p.m. During this time he observed MOE GENSER, Chief

Investigator for the Department of Motor Vehicles, Los

Angeles, California, approach ROSSELLI and hand ROSSELII

a note which ROSSELLI took andput into his pocket. As

he handed the note to ROSSELLI, GENSER said, "Here's that

thing you wanted.

Examination of ROSSELLI's bank account in

December, 1962 revealed that on 11/24/62 he issued a check

for $100

"S. DAVISDayable to

"Friar's Charity Foundation"

', the name

was written on the face of the check. The back

of the check bore the endorsements of "M. GERSER or GENSER"

and

"J. ROSELLI.

Neither S. DAVIS or GENSER are known

to be officers of the Frair's club.

-2-

HIH

45945

DooId: 32300746

Page 2

---

