# docid-32317174

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10351-10481

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 72-2382-392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

11/01/1976

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

19.1

DocId: 32317171 Page 1

58

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USt 21ü7 fiter

DATE: 11-14-2017

F,D-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 11/1/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

ROSKIL

100: MIAMI

DIRECTOR, FBI (72-2382)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (72-156) (P)

Re Houston airtel to Director, 10/14/76.

Enclosed for the Bureau, Miami and Houston is

one copy of a memo

reflecting information furnished by

JEAN LAURANE ROSSI dated 3/21/75.

New Orleans indices reflect the following infor-

reflects

that PAUL PETER ROSSI was a PC of the New Orleans Division

and furnished limited information during August, 1968 until

he was closed by New Orleans in October,

1969.

ROSSI,

at that time, was a bar owner and was well acquainted

individuals

in the Italian community and the local criminal

element.

New Orleans case entitled "PAUL PETER ROSSI,

aka

Paul Rossi; UNKNOWN VICTIMS; WSTA; New Orleans file 31-8209,

Miami file 31-8749'' reflects that ROSSI was under investi-

gation for allegedly sending girls to Homestead,

for prostitution purposes

This case was closed by the

Now d indie te inter tate elevyas no evidence nas 2- 392

would indicate interstate

2

- Bureau (Enc. - 1)

- Boston

- Houston (72-90) (Enc. -

1)

- Miami (72-517) (Enc. - 1)

2 - New Orleans

RIV/ kar

(10)

E1 NOV A 1976

Approved:

56 NOV

DocId: 32317174

Page 2

Sent _

_M Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 72-156

RTV/kap

New Orleans case entitled, "PAUL ROSSI,

ARTHUR CAPUTO, aKeS BEVERLY WHITAKER GRAHAM, aka, INSEBS:

ITAR - PROSTITUTION, New Orleans filed166-649; Bufile

166-5589, Houston file 31-3543;" reflects that this in-

vestigation was based upon allegations that the subjects of

this case were involved in flying girls into New Orleans

from Houston for prostitution activities aboard foreign

vessels moored

in the Mississippi River.

ROSSI was inter-

viewed on 7/22/68, and denied involvement. This case was

closed inasmuch as investigation was not able to substantiate

allegations that subjects were violating ITAR - PROSTITUTION

statutes.

New Orleans case entitled, "ERNEST BERNARD GONZALES;

MAKE ACTORER SUARE 122, Tale chat sug

PAUL PETER ROSSI; ALFONZO FRED IACHINO; MICHAEL A. CANTISANO;

MIKE CACIOPPO; SALVADORE JAMES RALLO; UNKNOWN SUBJECT, white

male; UNKNOWN

Negro male, aka Slick; 1Gb, New Orleans

file

182-68; Bufile 182-220, revealed investigation was

initiated in 1971 from information that subjects were running

a crap game in the New Orleans area. Local officers con-

ducted

a search in the location of the game, seized no

evidence, but advised observation disclosed

gambling-type

equipment. This case closed after the gambling establishment

closed.

New Orleans case entitled "NO 3456-PC"

tIle 137-5332: Bufile 137-40374, revealed wife of ROSsOrleans

JEAN LAURANE ROSSI, contacted by New Orleans agents and fur-

nished information

concerning ROSSI as set forth in referenced

enclosures.

PC closed due to case agent being unable to

contact PC.

New Orleans indices negative on other individuals

mentioned in referenced airtel.

2*

DocId: 32317174 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5t 2107 H0.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAG, NEW ORLEANS (162-574) (P)

3/21/75

SA RICK P. BAKEN

GAMBLING INTELLIGENCE CONTROL,

NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

Re Organized Crap Game Activities,

_PAUL ROSSI, aka,

Paul P. Calise, Paul J. Calise; SNAKE GONZALEZ.

on 3/13/75, SA RICK P. BAKEN and SA GLENN M. TYGETT,

contacted Mrs. JEAN LAURANE ROSSI, nee MOLt, at hel

residence, 1128 Inca Street, Apt. A, Harvey, Louisiana.

Mrs. ROSSI furnished the following information

regarding

the

illegal activities of her husband, PAUL ROSSI

with whom she is separated and currently seeking divorce.

MIS.

ROSSI

advised that her husband, PAUL ROSSI, operates

organized "house" crap ganes in the greater New Orleans area.

ROSSI had stated that on Tuesday nights the games are held

at various residences in the greater New Orleans area with

no specific regularity at any one residence.

nights,

Source advised that on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday

the game is run out of a warehouse office area. ROSSI

stated that the two telephone numbers located at the site of

this crap game are 943-3135 and 947-2825. ROSSI advised that

her ex-husband is assisted in the running of these crap games

by SNAKE GOnZAlEz and that generally an armed guard watches

the game to protect from a robbery.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that the bankroll for this crap

game operation is sizeable and is located in a safety deposit

box at the Vieux Carre Motor Lodge on Rampart Street in New

Orleans. MIs. ROSSI advised that the safety deposit box is

- New Orleans

(1, 162-574)

(1'137-new)-137-5332

(1,

29-0)

RPB/kil

(3)

kil

ENGLASHE

72-2382-392

DocId: 32317174 Page 4

---

## Page 5

ereased mier the

John F.

"Kennedy.

Assassination

Records Collection Art of 1992 7F1

USC 21

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 162-574

RPB/k11

at this location due to the fact that the hotel stays open

all night and therefore ROSSI can get into the funds, if

necessary, at any time during the course of a game.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that her ex-husband obtains

his dice from Houma, Louisiana, and that ROSSI is

an expert

at switching dice and also uses shaved dice.

162 € 53,00 5118

Mrs. ROSSI advised that a large quantity of counter-

feit $1.00 bills came to New Orleans from Florida and that

her husband participated in passing these counterfeit bills.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that it sounded unusual that it would be

$1.00 bills, however, she is positive that the counterfeit

bills were, in fact,

$1.00 bills.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that her ex-husband also has

been Involved in fencing stolen jewelry and has dealt in

stolen cars. She stated that ROSSI was assisted in these

activities by a person who resided on the West Bank of the

Mississippi River known to her only as "CHUCKABOY."

Mrs.

ROSSI advised that he is approximately 6 feet tall, Italian,

with light brown hair.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that PAUL ROSSI currently resides

at the Atlantis Apartments In Metairie, Apartment 314, tele-

phone 837-9407.

Source advised that ROSSI has some close connections

with a New Orleans District Court Judge by the name of HASSENGER;

nowever, she stated she does not know HASSENGER's exact connec-

tion with ROSSI's activities.

She further advised that an individual by the name

of TONY (LNU) and MONDO (LNU) are traveling jewel thieves

based in Providence, Rhode Island, where PAUL ROSSI is from,

and that TONY and MONDO commit jewel thefts in Florida and

in New Orleans as well as other places throughout the country.

Mrs. ROSSI further

advised that PAUL ROSSI is

associated with a dangerous.

"killer" who is a major thief

by the name of CHARLIE SMITH.

2

DocId:32317174 Page 5

---

## Page 6

eteasen

drier thié

"Tohii

DATE: 11-14-2017

F

Kennety Assassination Recorus

ColTection Aot of 1992 711 U5c 21

NO 162-574

RPB/ki1

Mrs. ROSSI advised that her ex-husband has a complete

set of identification as well as bank accounts in a false

Mrs. ROSSI advised that this false name is PAUL P.

CALISE and that he often uses the name PAUL J. CALISE. MIS.

ROSSI advised that a PAUL P. CALISE does, in fact, exist and

1s a hoodlum in Providence, Rhode Island.

Mrs. ROSSI furnished the below information and

dostienten

PAUL J. CALISE,

white male, DOB 6/10/26, POB PrOVI-

dence,

Rhode Island, SSAN 038-42-9410, La. Drivers License

3756479, address 312 North Rampart, New Orleans, Louisiana.

PAUL ROSSI utilizes an Amoco 0i1 Co. Credit Card

signed PAUL P. CALISE, which is due to expire in february.

1975. The credit card number is 456-427-603-0-5.

PAUL ROSSI has a savings account at the First

National Bank of Jefferson Parish, La., under the name of

PAUL ROSSI, 1228 Inca Drive,

Apt. A, Harvey, Louisiana,

70058, Account Number 22/0142.

ROSSI has a checking account under the name of

PAUL ROSSI for the Columbus National Bank of Rhode Island,

Providence, Rhode Island.

ROSSI's checks display his name

and list his address as #6 Pequot Street, Providence, Rhode

Island. The Account Number is 0115-0040-14-6073-0.

ROSSI has a checking account under the name of

PAUL, CALISE listing his address as 1128 Inca, Apartment A,

Harvey, La., for the Gulf South Bank and Irust Company,

Gretna, Louisiana. The Account Number is 0654-0154-24-822-3.

PAUL ROSSI utilizes the name PAUL, P. CALISE as a

Universal Checking Account at the International City Bank

and Trust Company, New Orleans, La., for checks of not over

$1,000. The Account Number 15 0650-0074-804-830-40

Mrs. ROSSI furnished the above described Amoco 011

Card, First National Bank of Jefferson identification card,

3

DocId: 32317174 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Bot of 1992 711 U5t

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO 162-574

RPB/kil

& check from the International City Bank and Trust Company of

New Orleans for PAUL P. CALISE, Check #434 under the name of

PAUL, CALISE for the Gulf South Bank and Trust Company of Gretna,

and Check #114 under the name of PAUL ROSSI for the Columbus

National Bank of Rhode Island, Providence Rhode Island.

MIS. ROssd advised that PAUL ROSSi 1s involved in

Las Vegas junkets with an individual who is a partner of

CHARLIE PACE, whose name she does not know but is described

as a balding, Jewish individual, approximately 50 years of age.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that approximately two years ago

she had an altercation with her husband in Houston,

Texas,

and there shot him.

Mrs. ROSSI advised that PAUL ROSSI

recovered from his wound.

Mrs: ROSSI is currently is possession of a Colt 45

caliber automatic pistol, Serial Number 70G27983.

NGIC

indicates this weapon is not entered as a stolen weapon.

The below is a physical description of Mrs. ROSSI:

Name

JEAN LAURAN ROSSI, nee MOLT

Sex

Female

White

Race

Place of birth

Columbus, Ohio

11/28/45

Date of birth

Address

128 Inca, Apte

arvey, La

361-0543

-Home telephone

First husband

(2 months)

JOCK HENDERSON

Second husband

WILLIAM LEGG

Third husband

PAUL ROSSI

4

DocId: 32317174 Page 7

---

