# docid-32309242

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10298-10029

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-480-2052

Released under the John

Document Information

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, NO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

09/22/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

WPD, ASSOC, FINANCIAL, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT,

RES, VESSEL, DESCR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

v9.1

53074

DocId: 32309242

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev: 12-13-56)

warek as

FBI

Date:

9/22/60

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

CIM HAS NO ME

TV TO

0S02-

-ALI INEORMATION CONTAINED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

JOR,

HIMATION

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTRIEU

IN 122222-36-47-10-10-97

DATE 12.-23-9431SP8-mud

TO:

(JFK

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-480) Copy to! -22-97 Is

/Stata, as Customes

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (64-86) by routing slip for info

ONI/O3I /G2/#AC/B7C

Date 9-22-ld by.

2a0

SUBJECT:

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

(00: Miami)

Re New Orleans letter to Bureau dated

6/15/60 and New Orleans airtel to Bureau dated 5/6/60. Both

/communications being captioned as above and contained

letterhead memorandum enclosures.

Transmitted herewith for the Bureau are 9

copies of a letterhead memorandum captioned "CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY

ACTIVITIES" and dated September 22, 1960.

letterhead memorandum is being furnished to the New York

Office for information in view of the comments made therein

regarding NADJA BUCKLEY, who allegedly resides in New York City

and one copy of this letterhead memorandum is being furnished

"to the Miami Office for information in view of the interest

wof that office in matters that possibly bear a relationship to

Cuban revolutionary activities.

The data set forth in the enclosed memorandum

was furnished by NO-Tl, confidential informant BETTY PARENT, to

SA REGIS L. KENNEDY on 8/31/60 and additionally to SA WARREN C.

DE BRUEYS on 9/21/60. Confidential Informant NO-T2 is FELIX

LORINO, Manager, Municipal Yacht Harbor, New Orleans.

One copy of this letterhead memorandum is

being furnished by the New Orleans Division to the local office

of the U. S. Customs Agents for information.

The above is being furnished to the Bureau

solely for general intelligence information purposes and no

investigation is contempted by

the New Orleans Office in this

SEP 29

-1960

- Bureau (Encls.

(RM

New Orleans

1.043

186)

WCD/rC

(6)

Approved:

Special Age

Miami (105-1360) (Enc1. 1) (InfoRM)

KEel New York (Enel

_coples made / 19-2

Sent

crayow at zarto by,

6M 23P0560

-SCA Reg 3/14/

78

NW 53074 DocId: 32309242

Page 2

---

