# docid-32329848

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE:

11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information,

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90088-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-65-759

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LV

TO: HQ

"TITLE:

DATE: 12/01/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

BENJAMIN BINION

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

DocId: 32329848

6

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

- Hqte).

DATE: 11-14/2017

-27-66)

DECODED COPY

• AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

• RADIO xx TELETYPE

12:02,PM 12-1-66 URGENT JRD

7O DIRECTOR (62-9-65)

FROM LAS VEGAS 011915

Tolson

DeLoach!

wick

Casper

Callahan

Conradi

Felt

Gal

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

9 Kave

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, LAS VEGAS DIVISION.

7n Hoodlum

JOHN

OSELLI, LOS ANGELES TH; EDWARD LEVINSON, FORMER

PRESIDENT, FREMONT HOTEL; EDWARD

MORGAN, WASHINGTON, D.C..

ATTORNEY; BENN

INION OF HORSESHOE CLUB, AND AN ATTORNEY WITH

MORGAN, NAME NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN, WERE OBSERVED BY BUAGENTS

IN HORSESHOE CLUB, DOWNTOWN LAS VEGAS, NOVEMBER 30 LAST.

LV 223-C-TE CONTACTED ON NIGHT OF NOVEMBER 30 LAST AND ADVISED

THAT ROSELLI, MORGAN AND THE UNKNOWN ATTORNEY APPEARED AT

HORSESHOE CLUB OSTENSIBLY TO EAT AT THE RESTAURANT: UPON

OBSERVING THESE INDIVIDUALS IN THE RESTAURANT BENNY BINION,

ACTING AS HOST, JOINED THEM AT THEIR TABLE. ROSELLI REQUESTED

BINION TO TELEPHONICALLY CONTACT LEVINSON TO JOIN THEM WHICH

LEVINSON. IMMEDIATELY DID GENERAL CONVERSATION ENSUED RELATIVE

FodeRal Grand Veny

TO THE CURRENT

FEd BEING CONDUCTED

IN LAS VEGAS RELATIVE TO

SKIMMING.

22

tz

2-9-75-75%

DEC

6

1966

149

MR. DELOACH FOR THE DIRECTOR

file

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DEC 13 1966

DocId: 32329848 Page 2

---

