# docid-32304744

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act or 1992 799 05c 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10286-10374

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-412

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: EVANS, C. A.

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/09/1963

LCN, OC, MAFIA, MEMBERS A/O LEADERS, IDENTITY,

INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DooId: 32304744

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

leased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Mobey

DATE: 11-14-2017

ORIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERj

•Memorandum

ENT

TO

Mr. Belmont

FROM

C. A. Evans

DATE: August 9, 1963

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

CONSPIRACY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad -

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy _

We have received a request from the Department for a list of

all individuals named by former NY 3864-C-TE as members of La Cosa

Nostra. This source was Alfredo Sanantonio, member of the Carlo

Gambino "family" in this organization, who was the victim of a gang

slaying in Brooklyn, New York, on July 11, 1963. Sanantonio had

furnished us extremely valuable information on La Cosa Nostra,

including the identities of a large number of its leaders and other

members. In making this request, the Department did not specify what

use they intend to make of such a list.

New York is now completing a summary report covering

recent developments in the investigation of this organization across the

country, which should contain some of the data requested by the

Department. It was necessary that a few amendments be made in this.

report and when New York has completed these changes, the report will

receive further careful review at the Bureau.

ACTION:

We are not disseminating material to the Department at this

time on La Cosa Nostra. While we do not propose to give the Department

a blow-by-blow account of information developed concerning this organiza-

tion, nevertheless, since the Department does know we have been investigat-

ing;, if approved,

this voluminous report, after a lapse of time for careful

review at the Seat of Government will be routinely disseminated-to the

Department.

and,

TJE/CHS. pew/vapnanec

REG

Greei

26

054-14/2

tol

ber

10,23

SEP

# 1963 at

57 0CT2

1963

DocId: 32304744 Page 2

---

