# docid-32201950

## Page 1

Date: 05/24/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10061

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, NEW YORK

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM

DATE : 08/29/60

PAGES : 3

SUBJECTS :

CONFIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

CASTRO

ASSASSINATION ATTEMPTS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1C, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/24/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653 DocId: 32201950

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Memorandin

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRED

000269

DATE: 8/29/60

FROM :

SAC, NEW YORK

(205-35498)) (s)

Ic.

SUBJECT:

AT.T, INPORMATION CONTAINEL

HEROIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCERT WERE SHOWN

umbass of Guba

Washington,

SIS -CUBAN

(5)

Attached are nine copies of a letterhead memorandum

for the Bureau, dated and captioned as above,

are attached for wro.

and two copies

cutA

from.

The letterhead memo

Mne

contains information received

soon won he obte ned, the

not be

disclosed

His icentity should

classified

The attached letterhead and reliability memos are

"Confidential"

due

lovestigative coverage of

to the fact it involves

fore an anolomate establichnests)

disclosure of which information could result in the

identification of an informant of continuing value.

316/64

9/78/60

EX 109

Isolasaily on: DADR JFK

REG. 4,

(9 - 496

Eureau

Washingto

New York

: mC

?.

Encls. 18)

10535498)

(R™)

(RM)

1960

juik

25 SEP

(s)

ENCLOSURE

HE CAN PON TASK FORCE

18

620CT 3

he state con Can iss

RECENC

ASE RE FULL

REQ. REC'D

DATE POT 9-9-660

• RELEASE IN CART •

•B. TOTAL DENIAL"

HOW Fin.%. _

BY

This document is prepared in response to your request and is mot for desi mi.

He use is linited to effinia!

nation outsie mou Commite.

te a nient may

not be disciosed to unanchorised verson-

1960

your Commi

nel withort the express approval of the FBI.

SECREU

HH

54653

DooId: 32201950

Page 2

---

## Page 3

• Reply, Please Refer to

Tie No.

SECRED

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

August 29, 1960

Re:

Embassy. of

Caban

Washington,

DoCo

Internal Segwity

• Cuba

(5)

ALL INFORAATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCUASSIFIED

OTHERWin:

On August 15, 1960, a confidential Informant, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, learnea

a source whom ne considers reltable, that ilajor Rolando/cuben??

President of

the Federation of University Students In Cuoa,

arrived in New York City, from Havana,

Cuba,

" on August 14,

1960.

Several days thereafter, he departed for Switzerland.

The Informant advised that when Cubela returns to

New York City, he will stay there for several days before

proceeding to

Havana, Cuba. While in New York City, he will

be in contact with the Cupan Consulate, oar tion arly Jose

asquezi slanco, Consulas Attacheg/(S)

REVIEWED BY FBI/JEK TASK FORCE

ON 14B2/9y dal

CO. RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

FROM

3/16/91

Classified by 65 emBlace

Declassify on: DADS FiC

^ 1976

This document contains neither U0 J

recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI

and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are

not to

be distributed outside your

• agency.

NATIONAL SECUEITY ' INFOIMATION

Unauthorized, Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

HH 54653

DocId: 32201950 Page 3

210%

ENCLOSURE,

SECRED

---

## Page 4

FD-3-313-28-60)

SECRED

CONFIDENTIALI

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

New York, New York

August

29, 1960

In Reply, Please Rejer ta

File No.

ALT INFORMATION CONCAINED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

OTHER:

Title

embassy of

Cuba

Washington,

DoCo

(5)

Character

Reference

Letterhead memorandum of Special

Agent Malcolm E. Sample, dated and captioned as above at New York.

All sources (except any listed below) used in referenced

communication have furnished reliable information in the past.

ce not

-sont with

setter

3/16/94

Classited by 05 Rm B/GGe

Declassify on: PAD$(JFIC)

RECENE FROM

1976 •

_CONTIDENTiAL

75-602/02

This document contains nesther

dutions nor conclusions of the FBI.

it la the property

of the FBI and la loaned lo your agency; il and lis coniente are nor to be distributed outside

your agency.

ENCLOSURE

SECRED

(5)

HH 54653

DocId: 32201950

Page

4

---

