# docid-32291727

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10208-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-745

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/19/1963

2

CIP, DELUCIA, PAUL, ASSOC, ARREST AND

INTERROGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32291727

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Date:

11/19/63

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PAUL DE LUCIA, aka. (MM 92-123) accompanied by

11/16/63,

met the plane in Miami

and prior to the three leaving the

Sheriff's Office for questioning.

Subsequently it was learned

DE LUCIA was printed and photographed. DE LUCIA alleged he

Appliance Co., Franklin Park, Ill.

BLOOM, allegedly a close friend

oft a Holiday Inn Motel at Coral Gables, |Fla.

opening a "steak house" restaurant on the site where Puccini's

Restaurant, Miami, Fla. is located. The past two seasons

Puccini's Restaurant was operated by JOSEPH FISCHETTI

(MM 92-99) and his associates.

Ant he WA S09-C-IE advised that deurge's fesstaged hands.

a hoodlum

He stated SANTOR No aud has wate, recent chase, wan

acquired same,

as far as he has heard, legitimate business

people. He pointed out that no bookmaking is taking place

In the establishment at this time but that DAVE/ASSERMAN,

71=

JBLACKTE"

, takes the bookmaking action in the general vicinit

) - Bureau (AM)

- Miami

RFF : mgw

C a Wick

REC 37. 62-9-29-943

(5)

€ NOV 2,1 1963

elipproved:

& DECR

Sent

_M

Per

Special

Agent in Charge

DocId: 32291727

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-515

of this newsstand.

He also reported that VINCENT ALO (MM 92-109)

plays cards regylarly at the Singapore Motel, Bal Harbour,

Fla., with MIKM HASSELL, one of the owners, and others

when ALO is in 'town.

Recently LARRY LORIA (MM 165-203) and BENNY

GREENBERG, bookmakers, were arrested by the Florida Attorney

General's Office, Miami, Fla., for bookmaking at Loria's

residence.

MM 509-C-TE stated he learned that GREENBERG

does not work for LORIA and just happened to stop at LORIA's

residence to talk over some lay offs.

He related GREENBERG

is a sheet writer for CHARLES KAUFMAN, a Miami Beach bookmaker.

He aso advised that he understood LORIA's son takes the tele-

phone action for his father when LORIA is not there.

-2 -

DocId: 32291727

Page 3

---

