# docid-32295750

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10216-10026

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

139-1201-25

Released

under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

GOUDGE. MAURICE E.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/06/1961

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT: AB, ASSOC, CANTILLION, JAMES P., INTV, TELEPHONE LISTING, RECORDS

DOCUMENT_ TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/11/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32295750

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 139-77

CSIA-$178 S

CSLA-4143 S

On 2/10/61 to SA FREDERICK L

BIGGERS

On 2/28/61 to SE JAMES L. MAHAN

JAMES P. CANTILLON, Suite 430, 9441 Wilshire

Boulevard, Beverly Hills, California, interviewed on 3/1/61

by SAs FREDERICK E. RODERICK and FRANK H. TOWNSEND, advised

he is in partnership with his father and brother, in what

appears to be an affluent practice.

JAMES CANTILION has

represented Los Angeles Top Hoodlum FRANK DESIMONE and he has

engaged in business ventures with Los Angeles Top Hoodlum

JOHN ROSELLI and ROSELLI's associate,

LOUIS J.. LEDERER, a

former Chicago bookmaker with big time Chicago hoodlum

connections.

He invested with the latter two in the

Westside Holding Corporation in Las Vegas,

a firm formed to

complete construction of the Carver House

Hotel there. u

When advised that there is a good chance he will

be subpoenaed before the FGJ in Las Vegas relative to this

matter, CANTILLON said that that would be all right that he

is frequently in Las Vegas on certain legal business having

to do with settlement of the Stardust Hotel suit.

He guessed

the FGJ would be in session during March which he said would

not be inconvenient to him.

on 3/1/61 CSIA 3923-C advised SA FRANK H. TOWNSEND

that JAMES L. ARDITTO, Attorney, was a former legan counsel.

for HOWARD HUGHES.

Further, that Arditto now has penaing a

suit against HUGHES in the amount of about $1, 2000,000.00 for

payment of legal services rendered.

In regard to GREGSON BAUTZER, Attorney, there are

numerous criminal references to BAUTZER in the Los Angeles

indices. His reputation is doubtful. u

Attention Is called to the Office of Origin, Las

Vegas, of the report of SA ROBERT K. LEWIs at Miami dated

2/14/61, page 4, which set out telephone numbers of MA 9-245.

and LA 6-9511.

This is to advise that these numbers and

prefixes appear to be incorrect.

The telephone number MAdison

6-9511 is the public listing for the los Angeles County

Sheriff's Office in Los Angeles, California. U

-B.-

COVER PAGE

J1P-10r0

HH 53025 DooId: 32295750 Page 2

---

