# docid-32328743

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/17/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90079-10001

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 62-9-33-241

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 06/09/1961

PAGES:

44

SUBJECTS:

JOSEPH PORETTI

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE IA

v9.1

NN 45923

1

DocId: 32328743

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-55;

LE ORLEANS

FATTE OF CERE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION 14

RECAS

otrice of Origin

NEW CALEANS

6/9/61

Report

nade

SA REGIS I KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

5/29 - 6/9/01

ORGANIZED GRIME IN THE

VETEARSON PARISH ARISA

-GerminaL Intelligerce Rogenm

SPECTAL

SUMMARY REPORT

Typed

Lyc

Pat

bal

121

MISCELLANEOUS

MNFORMATION

CONCERNING

36783

ASPERENCE

3

sp Bureau airtel to Loudertile and New OrTeane, 5/26/61.

C

PACLOSURES

To Bureau:

Three copies of Jefferson Parish

ordinances dated 3/23/61.

SPHIN ISTHATIVE

Or i cans,

this repost is Prepared for possible Grand Jusy action new

Appro

Copies:

Por the information of the Bureau, the V..S. Treasury Department

ganbling figures who

confetplating Grand Jury action against a nunber of prominent

entral figure

operated throughout the United States.

in the New Orinana arge Involved in the Cheaper

Departmentrcase is SALVADORE DI PIAZZI, The exact timeroti

erosentation of this case to the. Grand. Jury lakhotskrou

16 Mp

in Charge

Dor not

An apaces

62-9-33-

241/EC 114

4 Bureau: (62-8-80) (Enco 73

1-New Orleans: 092-25/7).

TRO A TRAGICAL

413-1961

10 C

DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED TO JUSTICE DEPARI

1a loaned t

56 NUN 29 1961

NW 45923 DocId: 32328743

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-257

it will be in the immediate future.

The U. S. Treasyry Department has also conducted.

xtensive inquiry in the Jefferson Parish area on gamblins

figures who operate handbooks to determine if they are

complying with the Treasury Department's laws particularly

payment of the 10% tax and the possession of gambling stamps.

This report was prepared by SAs L. M. SHEARER, JR.,

RAY E. ROCKHOLD, GEORGE R. MC NEIL, RICHARD BUCARO and

REGIS L. KENNEDY.

INFORMANTS

T-l is

a PCI of the New Orleans

office.

I-2 is CY DILIBERTO, Captain, Jefferson Parish SO

who is not in a position to testify and furnished information

of confidence.

T-3 is

PCI.

T-A is ALOYSIUS A. DARGIS, PCI.

I-5 is JOSEPH BATTAGLIA, It. Jefferson Parish SO,

who furnished information of confidence and does not desire

to testify.

T-6 is PHILIP BARON, Southern Bell Telephone and

Telegraph Co. a New Orleans business office.

T-7 is BERT EIGHER, Manager, Metairie District,

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company.

T-8 is

a PCI of the New Orleans :

office.

T-9 is

a PCI of the New Orleans office.

OTHER 4

B*

COVER PAGE

NN 45923 DocId: 32328743 Page 3

---

