# docid-32330600

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(14 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90091-10031

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-7037-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OC

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/21/1965

2

FLETCHER D. HANDLEY

RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330600

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DADS 3/1151492017

eú....

.. FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OKLAHOMA CITY

TITLE OF CASE

FLETCHER D. HANDLEY

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

OKLAHOMA CITY

DATE

9/21/65

REPORT MADE BY

HAROLD E. DUNCAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/27 - 9/20/65

TYPED BY

ca

REFERENCE: Report of SA HAROLD E. DUNCAN at Oklahoma City 2/17/65.

- p* -

LEAD

OKLAHOMA CITY OFFICE

pom

At El Reno, Oklahoma

Will follow and report Subject's activities.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The following information was obtained by SA ROBERT W.

KNIGHT during contact with OC 441-C on 1/27/65:

KEN FLANERY, who reportedly "set up" the recent

attempted hijacking of

the Canadian Country Club is a close friend

of informant.

'Informant has heard similar rumors about FLANERY

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92-7037)

1 - USA, Oklahoma City

DIAIZION

2 - Oklahoma City (225306)HAEZLICVLIME

BECEINED

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-70.32-

9

SEP 23 1965

REE 36

Jb 12

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTÄCHED REPORT

10-66.00

NOTATIONS

COPIEd FOR HSCA

2/27/78

T PG. ALS

AGENCY__

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD.

• 50 OCT

12

1965

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

, ec

10-76324-1

DocId: 32330600 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210g Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OC 92 - 306

and although he considers him capable of such an act, he does

not believe FLANERY would become involved in any hijacking

inasmuch as FLANERY has "too much to lose" in connection with

the building

and construction business.

Informant recalled

that FLANERY's name had also been mentioned in connection with

the hijacking of the Pennsylvania Club in 1963 when it was being

operated by GEORGE BARNES.

Informant said BARNES had talked

to FLANERY at that time and had eliminated him as a suspect.

Informant stated that he too has been accused of

having a part in the attempted hijacking of the Canadian

possibly because he is a former employee and

Country Club somewhat at odds" with FLETCHER HANDLEY, OWnEr

is presently

of the Canadian Country Club.

Informant talked to GEORGE

BARNES and JUNK JOHNSTON the previous week and is certain he

convinced them that he had no part in the attempted hijacking.

(BARNES and JOHNSON operate the gambling room at the Canadian

Country Club.)

Informant said that BARNES uses R. DA MATHEWS, a

Dallas, Texas, hoodlum, as a strong-arm man but that to

informant's knowledge,

MATHEW has not been in Oklahoma City

recently.

Informant said that FLETCHER HANDLEY USES REI

HOLT and GEORGE POULOS as strong-arm

men.

(HOLT is an

Oklahoma

City hoodlum and POULOS. is a hoodlum in Wichita,

Kansas.)

On 3/15/64, OC 374-C advised SA HAROLD E. DUNCAN

that FLETCHER HANDLEY continues to operate the Canadian

Kla-Country flub and is assisted in that business by his brother

CHARLESXHANDLEY.

CI. stated he had heard that GEORGE BARNES

okla.

is now employed at the club as a dealer and that customers

of the club continue to be local people from the vicinity

of Oklahoma City.

_ B-

COVER PAGE

92-703709

DocId: 32330600 Page 3

---

