# docid-32309725

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10300-10091

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-70441-182

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/12/1959

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

NRO, ASSOC, TRA, VISAS, GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

Redact

05/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

w... ...

DOCId: 32309725

Page

23

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017-

FEDERAL BURLAU OF INVESTIGATICi

U. S. OEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

• COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 1 2 1959

TELETYPE:

Mir: Tolson'

Mr. Belmoi

Mr. DeLuach

I Nr. Mohr-

• Mr. McGuire

Mr. Parsons.

Mi. Rosen

Mr. Tamm.

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivad

Tele. Room.

Mr. Holloman_

Miss Gandy

ALL INFORMATION COMTAINED®

HEREIN IS CHOLASSIFIED +724/326

/ DATE 1/9/85

URGENT

8-12-59

RES <43

this

8-54 PM EST R L B

TO DIRECTOR, TBI AND SACS, JACKSONVILLE, MOBILE, HOUSTON,

AND NEW ORLEANS

FROM SAC, Y MIAMI

• MIAMI 2 P

FULGENCIO BATISTA, IS - CUBA. RE HOUSTON AND MOBILE TELS AUG.

106

ELEVEN TO BUREAU. INVESTIGATION MIAMI DISCLOSES INSTANT PBY

ARRIVED FT. LAUDERDALE ABOUT SEVEN PM LAST NIGHT WITH SEVERAL

PROPLE ON BOARD INCLUDING WILLIAM FEE BRANNION, -

MACKEY AIRLINES

PILOT, AND SIR SIDNEY BAKER FOLLOWING ARRIVAL, BRANNION MADE

RESERVATIONS AT CALT OCEAN MILE HOTEL, FT. LAUDERDALE, FOR

KATHLEEN RYAN, OKLAHOMA CITY AND FOR 1. 5. -FERREL, TULSA, ORLA-

HOMA, WHO IS SCHEDULED CHECK IN AUG. FOURTEEN. OAKES RENTED CAR-

FROM AVIS CAR RENTAL AND PRESENT ADDRESS UNKNOWN. WHEREABOUTS

N3004P

APACHE PLANE WHICH DEPARTED NEW ORLEANS ABOUT SAME TIME AS PBY

UNKNOWN. BRANNION LEFT PBY AT RED AIRCRAFT, FT. LAUDERDALE AFTER

INDICATING THERE WAS SOME WORK TO BE DONE ON PLANE.

LIAISON WITH U. S. CUSTOMS,

BORDER PATROL,

REC 3 - H0 182

BORDER PATROL HAS PLANE UNDER SURVEILLANCE: JOSEPH FORTIER,

SUPERVISING CUSTOMS AGENT, MIAMI, ADVISED TODAY"THAT GIPES

A GASSES UP FOR LONG JOURNEY, IT WILL BE REQUIRED FILE SOJOURN

CERTIFICATE WHICH IS TEMPORARY PERMIT TO DEPART, AND NO SEIZURE

END PAGE ONE

Hr. Belmont

TO. MAJOR A.L.WARNE, ISE

8/13/59

OFFICE, SiATE

811315740

DocId: 32309725

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(41 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

- PAGE TWO..

WILL BE MADE IN ABSENCE ANY SPECIFIC VIOLATION. TODAY, JOSEPH

• R." MEROLA,

WHO IS UNDER INDICTMENT ON FEDERAL CHARGES, BUT WHO

HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION TODAY CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED

THAT SIR SIDNÈY: OAKES ARRIVED MIAMI FROM HOUSTON WITH HIS FAMILY,

THAT OAKES HAD CONTACTED

_HIM INDICATING HE PLANNED TAKE PBY TO

BAHAMAS FOR INTER ISLAND FREIGHT SERVICE. MEROLA LEARNED FROM

ROTHMAN,

NHO IS UNDER TWO INDICTMENTS, AND WHO IS CLOSELY

ASSOCIATED WITH BATISTA-S BROTHER-IN-LAW, ROBERTO FERNANDEZ,

THAT SEVENTEEN MEMBERS BATISTA-S GROUP IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

HAVE RECEIVED VISAS TO GO SOMEWHERE AND ARE NOW AWAITING RECEIPT.

VISAS FOR BATISTA AND ONE OTHER BEFORE DEPARTING TOGETHER. MEROLA

BELIEVES BATISTA WILL PROCEED TO CURAÇAO, DUTCH WEST INDIES AND

THEN POSSIBLY PROCEED TO UO _ SO WITH OR WITHOUT A VISA. RICHARD

BO JAFFE, U. S• CITIZEN, CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH ROLANDO MASFERRER

Gatewer sorce

ANDAWHO RECENTLY RETURNED FROM TRIP TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, CON-

FIDENTIALLY STATED THAT MASFERRER DISCLOSED TO HIM THAT BATISTA *

HAS AGREED PAY FIVE MILLION DOLLARS TO RAFAEL TRUJILLO FOR EXIT

PERMIT FROM, DR• MIAMI MAINTAINING LIAISON WITH ABOVE FEDERAL

AGENCIES AND WITH INFORMANTS AND SOURCES FOR ADDITIONAL DEVELOP-

MENTS.

END AND ACK PLS IN ORDER

WA 10-01 PM OK FBI WA JDS

JK OK F I JK REH

JK AGN OK FBI JK REK

AC--MR. BELMONT

li. . ..

MO OK FBI MO JRB

HO OK FBI HO VBR

NO OK FBI NO TJB

TU DISC

DocId: 32309725 Page 3

---

