# docid-32336861

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90135-10256

HQ

105-82298-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO:

PA

TITLE:

DATE: 02/08/1961

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH

v9.1

DocId: 32336861

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F? Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 US€°2107 Hote).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

THANSLATION FROM FRENCH

ELOY GUTIERREZ MINOYO

D. R. I. L.

(Continued)

CONEIDENTIAL

5/6/94 SpSMACGAT

Declassify on: OADe is x3

A. Birth of the D. R. I. I. and First. Known Manifestations.

1. Middle of 1957: There was established in Cuba, under

the BAtISTA Government, a clandestine movement

known

as the "Spanish Democratic Front."

(F. D. E.) It came

out into the open at the end of 1958.11:

Supporting it: The Spanish subjeet MULEY-MORE ABDERRAMAN,

otherwise PEPE, who emigrated to Latin America at the

end of 1954, on the occasion of an International Congress

of Genealogy organized in Peru.

S

The new group maintained correspondence with similar

groups in Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia, France and

Argentina.

2.

March - April 1959: A congress, announced in the

Venezuelan press, gathered in Caracas

the former army

men who fought in Spain.

At this congress, there began the union of the Spanish

Fighters which undertook to group all the anti-FRANCO

organizations of the world, with a view to common action

aiming at overthrowing the

FRANCO Government.

note here

that the word "Fighters" (Combatants) must be

understood in the sense of "Militants" and

that it does

not refer only to the former combatants of the Civil Nar.

Adhering to it: the Venezuelan citizen R0J0-RUIZ

(RAFAEL MARIA), of Spanish origin; who emigrated to

Venezuela around 1946 - 1947& ASSIFIED BY 6022 WNP

b2:

EXEMPT FROM GDS CATEGORY

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

TRANSLATED BY:

SPA.

EDNARD P. ARBEZ: Brod

= 9-

February 8, 1961

105. 12.211

SECRET

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32336861 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kemedy Assassination Records Collection Aot Of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nöte).

_DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

3•

4.

5.

This group contacted:

• the "Spanish Democratic Movement" in Mexico (LIZANIA

(ANPONIO): Delegate)

the "Spanish Liberation Movement" of Colombia (working

with Venezuela).

- the "Spanish Democratic Front" in Cuba (MULDY-MORE:

Delegate)

Leaders:: Dr. LOPEZ de GOICOCHEA;

Colonel RODRIGUEZ (ADONIS);

Commander del PINO (VICTOR) •

- the "Portuguese Independent Movement! in Portugal.

(Secretary:

Captain GALVAO (HENRICO), Professor at

the

Caracas University)

- the "Active anti-Franquist Alliance" in France (one

of the leaders is JOSE del BARRIO) ..

- the "Union of the

Spanish Combatants" in Marrocco

- Spanish refugees,

not grouped, in Canada (LIZANIA

(ANTONIO), Delegate) :

October 1959:

on account of his activities within the

"Spanish Democratic Front" (Cuba), PEPE was invited to

Caracas by the "Union of the spanish Combatants." .'

Mis contacts were especially with VELO (JOSE). The

latter asked him to go to Europe

and more particularly

to a congress of the different anti-Franquist

organizations; the purpose of that congress was to

bring closer together the different views which mani

fested themselves in those organizations, with a view

to common action against the present Spanish Government.

It was in a way the counterpart to the Caracas Congress.:

It may

be assumed that it was at that time that the

D. R. I. Lo,

the final constitution of which dates from

initiative of the

S

-10-

SECRET

DocId: 32336861 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F? Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET!

For indeed:

1:

two delegates were sent from Caracas to

Paris; the first one,

"PEPE, " who represents

"Spanish Democratic Front" of Cuba; the

second one, SorRA (JOsE) Who represents the

"Union of the Spanish Combatants" of Venezuela.

They left

Caracas 19/XI/1959 (November 18, 1959).

LIZANIA (ANTONIO) likewise was sent as representing

Mexico (Spanish Democratic Movement) and Canada;

2: after the

failure of the Paris Congress

(15/12/1959: December 15, 1959) which could not

take place because it was sabotaged by the anti-

Franquist organizations of France, VELO informed

"PEPE" that the "D. R. I. L." had

decided to act

on its own;

3: At that time already, the "D. R. I. L."

could

depend on

the support of/very active anti-Franquist

group in toulouse.

This

group was led by VALAT

"POPE," from his very arrival in France,

was going back and forth between faris and Toulouse.

B. Final Constitution of the "D. R. I. L." Its Aims.

6.

15/2/1960 (February 15, 1960): The "D. R. I. L." is

finally constituted

in Caracas. '

7.o

Its ultimate goals are: the overthrow of the Govern-

ment now in power in Spain, and the substitution of a

Federation of Iberian States, on the basis of the

ethnic groups (Andalusia, Navarre, etc.., including

Portugal).

8. Its immediate

aims are:

a/ to explore all the anti-Franquist groups

throughout the world and, if possible, to unify

them under its care;

-11-

DocId: 32336861 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2I0T Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

b/ to recruit in these same groups resolute and

reliable men,

who could,

within a near or distant

future, carry

out specific missions according to

their special

methods (for example: acts of

sabotage).

c/ to look in those groups for supporting points,

rallying and message centers, lodging centers

(for instance:

Liege);

d/ to arouse in democratic countries and quarters,

feelings of sympathy, even support;

e/ in Spain itself: to follow on the spot the

political evolution;:

: to recruit henchmen;

to create,

by suitable means

(for example, criminal attempts) an atmosphere,

a psychosis,

which would undermine Spanish economy

and further the carrying out of its ultimate

purpose;

f/ to obtain its recognition by the refugee

Spanish Republican Government which the

"D. R. I. L."

has already obtained.

The "D. R. I. L." recognizes

the sole authority of the President of the Refugee

Spanish Government i

It should be noted that the Prime Minister was

methods of the

replaced recent1s10. 1. I.

because he did not endorse the

L."

C. Known Activities of the "D. R. I. L." (continued).

In chronological order:

9.

January 1900:

"POPE's" mission to France, notably

in Paris and

Narbonne;

SECRET

-12-

DocId: 32336861 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the Jun F. Keeny Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

-DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

10.

February 10, 1960:

in Toulouse, "PEPE" recruits

"JUANJO"

as an agent for information and execution;

11o

February 1960:

VELO sends to

"PEPE" the text of a

manifesto on the aims of the "D. R. I. L."

This

manifesto should be given the widest publicity;

12.

Fobruary - Narch 1960: "JUANJO's" mission of infor-

nation in Spain and return to Toulouse;

13. February 17, 1960: terrerist outrages in Madrid;

14.

March 14, 1960: arrival 1n

RAFAEL MARLA, Commando of the "D.

entrusted

with various missions in France, Belgium,

Yugoslavia.

150

March 12, 1960; arrival in Liege of "RAFAEL-MARIA" and

exploring of the anti-Franquist centers of Liege and

Brussels, and France;

16.

April 1,

1960: arrival in Liege of "JUANJO" who is

to await instructions there;

Present in Liege MARTINEL DONOSO, one of those

involved in the Madrid outrages of February 17, 1960;

1%. April 10, 1960: "JUANJO's" return to Toulouse;

18. April 1960: "PEPE's" propaganda activity in the French

intellectual quarters of Paris ("France-Presse,"

"Le Monde.");

19. June 1960: RAFAEL-MARIA's mission in France (Toulouse)

and in Italy, especially in Genoa, where "perE"

is;

20•

June 22, 1960: "JUANJO" goes to Barcelona, on orders

from

"PEPE," to carry out bomb outrages;

21:

"JUANJO" recruits there "MARINO" whom he entrusts with

an information mission in Madrid;

"JUANJO" goes

22. Jang est 06 the Ta 30"T la

to Paris to spread a

among the press;

-13-

SECRET

DocId: 32336861 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

SECRET

CONF

DENTIAL

23.

July 8, 1960:

"JUANJO" returns to Liege; mission -

journeys. (to Essen, Germany);

24.

July 15, 1960:

"RAFAEL-MARIA's" mission to Yugoslavia;

25.

July 21, 1960: ELOY's arrival in Brussels; his mission.

CON

EMITAL

Ansad!

-14-

SECREI

DocId: 32336861

Page 7

---

