# docid-32341503

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 104-10015-10150

JFK

: 201-289248

Released under the

John

F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

March 26, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 20

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 6

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Áct.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 3 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

HH 53199

DocId:32341503

Page 1

---

## Page 2

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 4 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 5 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Postponement # 6 (Page 2):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Digraph

Release Date: 01/2006

Board Review Completed: 01/31/96

33199

DocId: 32341503 ' Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date: 02/29/96

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10015-10150

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

CIA

BERN

DIRECTOR, CIA

CABLE CONCERNING ALEX DES FONTAINES STORY THAT "THEY" WERE PLOTTING

AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND THAT "SOMETHING" WOULD HAPPEN IN TEXAS.

11/26/63

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

DES FONTAINE, A

ALLEGED PLOT

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/06/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW1: V4 1993.12.06.16:55:13:310028: ALEX DES

STRINGER AND RADIO

CANADA

CORRESPONDENT

FONTAINES IS A TIME-LIFE.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341503

Page

---

## Page 4

TO

• DIRECTOR

EROM • BERN

RECORDS OFFICER STAM

he followine So lonMESSAGE

authorized:

SENSITIRE

Signed:

R.O. #1 - US COPVA CI/RIA

ROUTING

5|

INFO

• DEI, D/DGI, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, Ve BrOpELat

SE 6. R 5 + 26200 2

IMMORATE DIR INTO PRIORITY GNVA PART ROUTINE FRAN 2410U 62H62359

#HAT KUDESK INK

BERN-24851

REP A BERN (1W 56631)

24.95

3 BERV 2495 (IN 57680)11

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

C BERN 2416(110 59081)

5768273

CONDUCTED.ON 2 4 MAY 1976

E IMPDET CL BY 0/2208

8o AFTERNOON 26 NOVEMBER INTARZAN I REPORTED TO GNUA

BASE THAT ALEX DES FONTAINES, TIME-LIFE SIRINGER AND RADIO

CANADA CORRESPONDENT GNVA, WAS FILING STORY TO TIME-LIFE OFFICE

PARI REFERRING TO APPEARANCE OF SUBJ REFS AT GNVA, HIS

WILD TALE BUT AMAZING COINCIDENCE THAT SUBJ HAD MENTIONED THAT

(UNIDENTIFIED) "THEY" VERE PLOTTING AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY

AND THAT "SOMETHING" WOULD HAPPEN IN TEXAS:

TO KEEP MATTER IN SAME CHANNELS AS PREVIOUSLY USED

INTARZAN 1 VAS INSTRUCTED PASS ABOVE INFO TO ARMATT,

for FOlA Review on

;Document lumber

ADDING THAT HE HAD ALSO NOTIFIED MIDDAUGH AT GNVA.

ARMATT AND COS BERN CONFERRED RE SUBJECT REPORT. ARMATT

DECIDED THAT IN VIEW SENSITIVE SUBJECT MATTER AND TO AVOID

APR 1976

ANY POSSIBLE CRITICISM FROM ACSI HE WOULD CABLE "BLUEBELL"

REPORT TO ACSI RE INCIDENT®

Cos

INDICATED WOULD ALSO INFORM

KUBARK HOS.

201-289248

0.200.5-41

CS COPYI

SECRET

MH 53199 DocIal a2311 SEBROPUSTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

2026n

GROUP

•63

pon automas

oringreding prid

Copy No.

---

## Page 5

See Sanitized Elle

Number

FOr

sterile copy of this document.

CLASSIRIRO MESSAGE

IN 2, 8.354 PAGE

SUBSEQUENT REPORT FROM, INTARZAN I INDICATES THAT

DES FONTAINES DECIDED FILE REPORT AFTER HAD

RECEIVED PHONE CALL FROM TIME-LIFE STRINGER, FEMALE, NAME

UNKNOWN, IN ZIRC, TO WHOM SUBJ REFS APPARENTLY ALSO

HAD GIVEN HIS WILD STORY AFTER MIS ARRIVAL IN SUISSE

GHER CONTACT WITH SUBJ REFS RREVIOUSLY UNKNOWN TO

1

STAGIONS ARMATT OR INTARZAN A. IN READING ACCOUNTS OF

KENNEDY ASSASSINATION SHE RECOLLECTED OR THOUGHT THAT SHE

RECOLLECTED TALE TOLD SY SUBJ REFS. SHE THEN PHONED DES FONTAINE

mosslan

WHO THEN DECIDED THAT HE TOO REMEMBERED THAT SUBJ HAD MENTIONED

CONSPIRACY AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND TEXAS ASPECT.

1

40 IN ANSWER INTARZAN I QUERY DIS FONTAINES SAID ME SKEPTICAL

KE

SUBJ STORY, STILL CONVINCED SUBU UNBALANCED BUT FILED STORY

TO PREVENT ANY POSSIBLE SUBSEQUENT TIME-LIFE RECRIMINATIONS

TO EFFECT HE HAD FAILED REPORT INTERESTING AND POSSIBLY

"ENAD!': Ci

SIGNIFICANT ANGLE RE KENNEDY DEATH. NOT KNOWN IS TIME LIFE

PARI OFFICE HAS REQUESTED FOLLOWUP.

a up conto dice toes

1

5..

INTARZAN 1, ARMATI, GNVA, BERN STILL ASSESS SUBJ

STORY AS FABRICATION BY UNBALANCED PERSON. HOWEVER REPORTING INCIDENT

IN ORDER HOS OR PARI NOT BE CAUGHT SHORT IN EVENT ANY QUERIES.

SEGRET

C S COMMENT:

*Forwarded information on PFC Eugene B. Dinkin.

**Forwarded further developments on Dinkin and Powers case.

***ARMATT stated that information from Provost Marshal

Metz area indicated that Bowers feturned to military custody, apparently

voluntarily, circa 11 November:

HY 53129 DocId: 32341503

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Date: 10/26/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10015-10150

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: BERN

TO

: DIRECTOR, CIA

TITLE

:CABLE CONCERNING ALEX DES FONTAINES STORY THAT "THEY"

WERE PLOTTING AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND THAT

DATE

"SOMETHING" WOULD HAPPEN IN TEXAS.

PAGES

11/26/1963

: 2.

SUBJECTS : JEK ASSASSINATION

ALLEGED PLOT

DES FONTAINE A

CLASSICATTON: PAPER

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/03/04

OSW1: V4: 20031201-1018535

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10015-10150

HN. 33199

DocId: 32341503

Page 6

---

## Page 7

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

the following da donME SAGE

authorized:

DESENSITIZE

TO

• DIRECTOR

Signed: (

• Hauti

31

FROM • BERN

R. 0. #2 - UNIf COPYI CI/ RAA

ACTION, C/EE 3. LEE AND CI CONSEROTISEDOR WOOD LET AT 1625-26 NOV 63)

BARO, DCI, 0/DC1, DDP, ADDP, 6/61, VR propPIatRe

ROUTING

5

SECRET 2622JZ

MEDIATE DIR INTO PRIORITY GNVA PARI ROUTINE FRAN ZG SI BEANORGES

#·3AT KUDESX INK

BERN-2485

REF A BERN 2397 (IN 56631)*

2495

3 SERY 2425 (1N57680)14

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

O BERN 2416(10 59081)

CONDUCTED ON_ 24 MAY 1975

EM IMFDET CL BY 2,220$

1. AFTERNOON 26 NOVEMBER INTARZAN 1 REPORTED TO GIVA

BASE THAT ALEX DES FONTAINES, TIME-LIFE STRINGER AND RADIO

CANADA CORRESPONDENT GNUA, WAS FILING STORY TO TIME-LIFE OFFICE

PARI REFERRING TO APPEARANCE OF SUBJ REFS AT ENVA, HIS

WILD TALE BUT AYAZING COINCIDENCE THAT SUBJ HAD MENTIONED THAT

/UNIDENTIRED). "THEY" WERE PLOTTING AGAINST PRESIDENT KENNEDY

AND THAT

"SOMETHING" WOULD HAPPEN IN TEXAS.

2. TO KTEP MATTER IN SAME CHANNELS AS PREVIOUSLY USED

INTARZAN L WAS INSTRUGTED PASS ABOVE INFO TO ARMATT,

ADDING: THAT HE HAD ALSO

NOTIFIED MIDDAUGH AT GNVA.

for FOlA Review on

Document lumber

ARMATT AND COS BERN CONFERRED RE SUBJECT REPORT.

ARMAIT

DECIDED THAT IN VIEW SENSITIVE SUBJECT MATTER AND TO AVOID

APR 1976

ANY POSSIBLE CRITICISA FROM ACSI HE WOULD CABLE "BLUEBELL"

REPORT TO ACSI RE INCIDENT. COS INDICATED WOULD ALSO INFORY

KUSARK HOS.

201-284248

0: 200-5-41

S copm

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

26 Mo

oraproding pr

Copy. No.

HH 53199 DocId:32341503 Page 7

---

## Page 8

See Sanitized File

Number

For sterile copy of this

document.

MESSAG.

Parant

IN :18.35% PAGE

3. SUBSEQUENT REPORT FROM INTARCAN I INDICATES THAT

DES FONTAINES DECIDED FILE REPORT AFTER MAD

RECEIVED PHOVE CALL FROM TIME-LIFE STRINGER, FEMALE, NAME

UNKVOUN, IN ZIPO, TO WYOM SUBU REFS APPARENTLY ALSO

HAD GIVEN HIS WILD STORY AFTER HIS ARRIVAL IN SUISSE

CHER CONTACT WITH SUBJ REFS PREVIOUSLY UNKNOWN TO

STAGION, ARVATI OR INTARZAN A. IN READING ACCOUNTS OF

VENNEDY ASSASGINATION SYE RECOLLECTED OR THOUSHT THAT SHE

RECOLLECTED TALE TOLO SY SUBJ REFSO SHE TIEN PIGHED DES FONTAIVESE

WHO THEN DECIDED THAT HE TOO REMEMBERED THAT SUBJ HAD MENTIONED

CONSPIRACY AGAINST

PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND TEXAS ASPECT.

1

4. IN ANSWER INTARIAN I QUERY DES FONTAINES SAID HE SKEPTICAL

KE SUBS STORY, STILL COVVINCED SUBJ UNBALANCED BUT FILED STORY

TO PREVENT ANY POSSIBLE SUBSEOUENT TIME-LIFE RECRIMINATIONS

TO EFFECT HE HAD FAILED REPORT INTERESTING AND POSSIBLY

SISVIFICANT ANGLE RE KENNEDY DEATY. NOT KNOWN IF TIME- LIFE-

PARI OFFICE HAS REQUESTED FOLLOWUP.

5. INTARZAN 1, ARMATI, GUVA, BERN STILL ASSESS SUBJ

STORY ÃS FABRICATION BY UNBALANCED PERSON. HOWEVER REPORTING INCIDENT

IN ORDER HOS OR PARI NOT BE CAUGHT SHORT IN EVENT ANY QUERIES.

SECRET

C S COMMENT: *Forwarded information on PFC Eugene B. Dirkin.

**Forwarded further developments on Dinkin and Eowers

***ARMATT stated that information from Provost Maissa

Metz area indicated that Bowers returned to military custody, apparently

voluntarily, circa 11 November.

SLUINCA

NH 53199 DocId:32341503 Page 8

---

