# docid-32307804

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10293-10162

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 92-10703-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/07/1968

1

JFC, ASSOC, TELCAL CHECK, BOOKMAKING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32307804

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAY 1262 ERITIONO. 10

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATÉS C

'ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM :

DALLAS (92-777) (P)

SUBJECT:

JOE PICCOLA, aka

AR; IGA

DATE:

5/7/68

00: DALLAS

Re report of SA HAROLD J. EDGERTON dated 4/30/68

at

Dallas, Texas.

For the informat or l Ane sureau, Dallas 1s probins

the activities of the subject with-two specific objectives.

F0-217

close associate of JOSEPH FRANCIS CIVELLO, LCN•

Not too much

is known about

subject's earller years in dallas, and this is

being developed, but it has

been established that he has been

bookmaking for some time and according to DL 369-C, who at one

time was subject's collector, subject has "fattened" himself

on his bookmaking activities.

contacts with BOSCO, raise alogical together with his verified

question as to whether he

is part of the CIVELLO group.

His birth has not been verified,

through INS this will be verified.

Dallas is asking the Bureau to approve a review of

telephone records for toll calls on all telephones available

to subject not only to assist in identifying his contacts, buti

also whether his bookmaking activities reach outside of Texas.

At this time, such review would be strictly of investigative

interest in our efforts to don to done ton

Review of such records will be

M. VAUGHAN, JR., Area Security

Manager, Southwestern Bell

Telephone Company, SAC contact and

former SA, with full security

assured and with

no embarrassment to the Bureau.

Ret to Dh

5/14/68

REK! ehh

MIAIZION

СЬЕСТУГЛИМЕ2:

5 1161F

REC 1D

92=10703-2

MAY 9 1968

lee dod

(1-66-1575)

-Bureau

3-Dallas

HJE: jW

(6)

5010-108-02

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32307804

Page 2

---

