# docid-32164535

## Page 1

8/28/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Case#: N

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10156-10006

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 105-82555-12TH NR 154

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: FBI

FROM

: SAC, CG

TO

DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

: [No Title]

DATE

:.12/04/1963

PAGES

: 1

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: LHO,

POLITICAL AND SUBV ACT

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

4

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 05/06/1996

OPENING CRITERIA

: INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

FDIN (Rov: 12-13-58)

FBI

Date:

12/4/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (100-3-86DL INFORMATION CONTANTS

FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (100-19494.REIN IS UNCLASSIFIE@ RIZ

DATE 4-29-93 BY 9803 RNDC

COMMUNIST PARTY, USA (CPUSA)

DOMESTIC ADMINISTRATION ISSUES

IS - C

CINAL JFK

cortles!

CG 6131-S, who has furnished reliable information in

the past, on 12/2/63 made available a copy of a mimeographed

flier entitled "Who Really Murdered Pres. Kennedy?" which was

issued by "The Communist Party of Illinois, Room 806, 36 W.

Randolph St., Chicago, Illinois." Source informs that this

document was being distributed by personnel of the Illinois

on 14/1/63 in the Chicago area, Urging that "only the Ultra-

Right and the Southern Racists" had something to gain by killing

"a president pledged to Negro equality,"

this document stresses

that "Dallas is a stronghold of the

Ultra-Right" and the "John

Birch Society" and raises questions

as to whether the murder of

the alleged assassin LEE OSWALD was not brought about by local

Texas authorities to silence him. In this connection emphasis

is laid on the point that

"Oswald (was) kept for

the right to see counsel."

105-8

two cays-without

5.3

Concerning OSWALD's background, the dachenfcontinues:

'The police say he was a member of the Fair Play foxcubalt

Committee and of the American Civil Liberties Union. Yet both of

these organizations deny such membership.

The police say tre was

pro-Communist, yet the anti-Castro Cubans in this country say inat

he offered to

work for them.

The police say that he applied

sometime back for Soviet citizenship, and been denied.

Who

really was he? An adventurer who was made the 'fall guy' by

higher ups? A dupe? Or an innocent victim? What is the truth?"

In concluding, it urged

I that the recipient demand a full

and impartial investigation by an independent citizens committee

In order that the truth may be ascertained.

- Bureau (RM)

^ 2-100-18953 (CF

ORGANIZATION)

DEC

1963

11-100 32207 (CINAL

1-A) 134-558

GEA: mec

(8)

Approved:

Sent

21

.M

RESE

ORIGINAL-TILED-SAP:

---

