# docid-32259718

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/2/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10102-10276

RECORD SERIES: NUMBERE FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 012386

Released under the John

rasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:N! 54653 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: PALMER, BETSY

TO :

DIRECTOR; FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/05/1978

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

ALFONSO, JOSE

CUBA; LIBRE

RAMIREZ, ROBERTO PARSON

GUTILLO, ANTONIO

FBI; FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/05/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 220.

v9.1

HH 54653

DocId: 32259718

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR

012386

FROM: BETSY PALMER/

DATE: OCTOBER 5, 1978

SUBJECT: FBI File Review - Cuba Libre

On October 5, 1978, I reviewed the four volume file on

Cuba Libre.

The first three volumes related to publications

entitled, Cuba Libre, one pro-Castro published in New York

under the direction of Wilfredo Alfonso, and one anti-Castro

published in Miami published by Jose Acosta.

Volume 4 contained information about the Cuban exile organi-

zation named Cuba Libre and pertinent notes on this group

are outlined below.

Volume 4 - Various See References

1.

#2-1787-17

Report from Miami

April 17, 1963

Title: Possible Anti-Castro Raid on Cuba Scheduled

for About December 16, 1962 - Neutrality Matters

Roberto Parson Ramirez and Antonio Gutillo have a small

group headquartered in Miami called Cuba Libre. They

had contacted representatives of the U.S. Government

requesting financial aid but have not received word that

any will be forthcoming. Cuba Libra not expecting any

U.S. Government support. Cuba Libra has no money, arms,

training camp or transportation. They have no meetings

and engage in no propaganda or publicity.

2.

#105-134373-20

Report from Miami

August 6, 1965

Title: Carlos Zarraga Martinez - Internal Security, Cuba

Informant said on June 17, 1965 that Zarraga continues as

head of small, independent, anti-Castro organization,

Cuba Libre.

The group recently acquired a motor boat

and plans to send commandos into Cuba.

The Boat was made

available by RECE.

When RECE announced a union with the

MIRR

and Commandos L on June 22, 1965, Zarraga was ready

to return the boat, because he did not wish to be associated

in any way with MIRR. He met with Polo Miranda Of RECE

who convinced him to keep the boat.

HH 54653

DocId:32259718 Page 2

---

