# docid-32330479

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90090-10142

HQ

105-84265-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NU 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

-TO:

MM

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/11/1960

1

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

19.1.

HH 54460

DocId: 32330479

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

CONFIN

TIAL

DECLASSIFIED BY

ION CONTAINED

LASSIFIED' EXCEPT

OTHERWISE.

HEREIN IS

WHERE

MAILED

MAY 1 1 1960.

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

•Callahan

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

SAc, 1i5an8 (231-22) (21)

May 11, 1960

Director, PoT (834-59777105-84265-

as 635-5 C

-* (1)

Reuratrtel 5/3/60. U

8.14/81

CLASS.

& EXT

REASON-FCIM II

DATE OF REVIEN

-2:452

The Bureau appreciates your concern in

however,

since the case involving the informant has not yet

been resolved, you

should not direct his activities

payments to him.

И)

Upon recenat of your repori concerning Juar fernandez

de castro hodriguez, et alo, which is due 5/13/00, the Bureau

will ask the Department for an expeditious reply as to what

action it contemplates tarPherrim bichatter. l

AND FIELD'OFFICES

VHN prg: sbs

ADVISED RY ROUSING

(5)

SLIP(SOF

coas

DATE

ф-гл

NOTE:

man 635-5 is a Miami intormant uno gosharrested in a

kidnaping-conspiracy case in which Rolando Masferrer, anti-

Castro leader, was victim. Informant was released on bond

and returned to Cuba.

We instructed Mil not to direct his:

activities or make further payments to him until his case

was resolved. Reairtel reported that informant on 4/21/60

sent letter to Miami's confidential post office box advising

he was working in office of commander general under orders

of chief of police in Cuba.. He stated he hoped to come to

Mn to talk to Mll office, but did not have money for trip.

Asked is money could be sent to him. on 5/2/60 Mn Office

directed letter to him in veiled terms stating consideration

could not be given to furnishing him money until his case

has been resolved.

, USA, MM, advised case involving inform-

ant not yet presented to Federal Grand Jury and USA ¿waiting

Departmental decision concerning questions presented by him

concerning prosecution. : Mu Office suggested Bureau consult

Department in effort to expedite his case.

Upon receipt of

report, it will be furnished Department with request for

expeditious reply. in feels the "technicality" of the inform-

ant's being

involved in this matter is depriving Bureau of

a well-placed and potentially productive source on intelli-

gence activities, 9t thetcastro government.

Bureau cannot

place itselfilin the position of directing activities of an

c8I- Infilce

RECKONI

TELET

PE UNIT

DJ CONFID

ENTIAL

ROOM

6 3 MAY 181960

54460

DocId: 32330479

Page 2

---

