# docid-32307849

## Page 1

-TeaSed'under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10207

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-207

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/01/1961

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

01/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32307849

Page 1

459

---

## Page 2

Release under the John F. Kennedy Assassifation Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATIUA

Me T

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr.

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

Mr.

Mohr

Mr. Belmont

MAY 1

1961

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad.-

TELETYPE

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Kwans.

Mr

talone.

costan

Tavel

URGENT

5-1-61.

8-33 PM DFS

Mr.

Trotter..

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

92-3171

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy=

FROM SACY

CHICAGO: 92-349

'ANTIRACKETEERING

CHICAGO

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN

DASH PC ADVISED INSTANT DATE SHE INTENDS TO BECME EMPLOYED BY AMERICO

DIPIETTO, CREST LOUNGE, FRANKLIN PARK, ILL. BARZN(DESCRIBED PREVIOUSLY

AS FORMER OPERATOR OF NORTH AVENUE STEAK HOUSE AND ASSOCIATE OF GIAN-

CANA) END-PAREN. INFORMANT SEVERED HER CONNECTION WITH ROCCO PRANNO

ALTHOUGH THE LATTER HAS ATTEMPTED TO HAVE HER BECOME RE EMPLOYED WITH

POTENTIAL CREAMINE INORMANT

HIM. MART MURRAY, BROTHER OF HAT MURRAY, PCI AND BOOKMAKER DESCRIBED

AS HAVING BEEN RECENTLY QUOTE RETIRED END QUOTE, ADVISED SA RALPH

R. HILL IN CONFIDENCE APR THIRTY LAST THAT HE WAS IN CONTACT-WITH AMERICO

DIPIETTO DURING WEEK OF APR TWENTY FOUR LAST AT CREST LOUNGE, WHERE HE

HAD PERFORMED SOME PLUMBING AND HEATING WORK. NOTED THAT MURRAY IS

LONG TIME ASSOCIATE OF DIPIETTO AND HIS NORTH AVENUE STEAK HOUSE AS-

SOCIATES. DURING CONVERSATION WITH DIPLETTO, THE LATTER APPRISED MURRAY

OF FACT THAT HE KNOWS MURRAY HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SA HILL,

FBI. NOTED THAT MART MURRAY IS INDIVIDUAL WHO SET UP INTERVIEW WITH

HAT MURRAY SEVERAL WEEKS AGO. MURRAY

IS LEGITIMATE ROOMSINS

AND HEATiNG

CONTRACTOR, AND HAS ADVISED SA HRES- 12

ESPAST OF INTENSE DISLIKE OF GIAN-

CANA AND CROWD. MURRAY ADMITTED TO DIPIETTO THAT HE HADBEEN ING CONTACT

WITH SA HILL, AT WHICH POLE INFORMATION CONT MURRAY TO TRY IO OBTAIN

END PAGE ONE

56 MAY 9 19617387

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6-6- B4 BYSS56/CAL

DocId: 32307849 Page 2

---

