# docid-32125780

## Page 1

8/28/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10027-10117

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER:

62-109060-4TH

NR 1382

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC,

NK

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE

:[No Title]

DATE

: 12/02/1963

PAGES : 3

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JFK, SUSPECT, LOWENFELS, WALTER DAVID

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/26/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

12/8/83

ADITEL

REOISTEZEO

TO:

DIRACTOR, TBI

ВАС, MEMARX

TALT: DAVID LOUTPELS

вИ • С

(B4S11O 100-1110)

(nanaxx 811020082680)

ABBASS INATION OF FRESIDEN

ТОКИ У. ПЕКАНО, 11/22/83

DALLAB, TEXAS

(Honark 1110 823030)

so Monark radiogras to Bureau datod 11/37/89.

JONTH MADARA, RUTAL CATTIOS, POST ORSICO, MayA LAndIAG.

¡m vernoy, adviaod sA THOMAS G. BUTTLE On 11/27/83 that 81

about 11:00 a.n. on 11/26/83, ho persoually dellvered to MALTH

the LOttOr tO LOMEMPILS, he PUrRs notIond tbat the entelope bore

nas typo do abovo.

on In sino and DRs addresse

tO MaIter LOReNtOlA, MaTthes ADASd, MAJO LADdING, Nos JersOy".

Ho sald that the entelope san sonenhat bulky and had disht conte

ponrago duo on 11, la taon remarked la consentlos s1t1 the

"NATKhAN ANETY" thAt LONENYELS consented that ho MAN judgIAt

somo sort of a contest and that the lotter had arrived after

tho sloatus dato of the contest.

MADARA addod thas DeLor tO

11/19/83, ho had soon LONtlUlLs at h1s, LONENTALs, realdence

an saturday, 11/23/89.

8) = Mrmu (AN)

1 = DALLAS (IATO OY)

8 • Toast

NOT RECORDED

199 DEC 9 1923

(10)

HY 53025 DofIa:32125780°

Page d

ORIGINAT, FILED IN

---

## Page 3

• NK

й 100-22600

AX: 63-3060

GROME FLECS,

Clerk, Post

Offioe, Maye Ianding,

Had., advised SA SUItuS On 14/31/68,

that ho recalls

placing a postaze duo stano on a letter to be delivered ta

WALIER LONENTELS

on 11/20/63..

Ile stated that upon arrival

at tho lays Lending Foat Office,

this envelope bore the

printed stanp of "Postage Duo" which bould havo beca put on

the envelope by & clert dipstching outgoing nait at tho

Post 022ico 1a Dallas,

Cozas.

Ro said that he paid no

particuler attention

to the

envelope and does not zecall

noticing

the retura addreas of "Parkland Bospital, Dallas,

Teres.

No saded

that he did not maice any record

01 this

postage due letter inasmich as poatal regulations de not

reguire that flate bo done.

NS 2036-9,

_who han

turnishod soliable intoration

In the pant, was last contacted by SA BUTTLE on 12/2/63, and

at this time said he-visited the LOWNPRIS' residenco on

12/2/09 and

in conversation with WALTAR LONELS, was une

successiul in doveloping any Intornation regarding LOUSIVELS

receipt of the correspondence bearing the returo aderess of

"Parkland Bospital,

Dallas, Texas*,

did express himsel

as fooling that the assassination of

President KNEy was & grest tragedy.

Intormant stated that during the courso of the viost,

LOVENEELS was busy reading and judging poetry which had been

mailed to him by ladividuals fron all over the JS.

No gala

that the mane "Hurkhan Award" to not funiliar to him, but

he vould assuno that it probably

had sone comection with

LoraNTaLs judging of poetry sent to hin through the nail.

Intomont renarked that on neveral occasions when

LOVELS, left his study to caro for his vile, LILLIAN LOPInG,

• sent-invalid, ho had an opportunity to mate

a cursory search

for the envelopo bearing tho soturn address "Parkland Hospital,

Dal1go, Toxas", but was also unsuccesstul in this

effort.

A high confidential source survey. has been condueted

and does not appear feasible at this time duo to

tho fact that

LOmES * wite 1s en

invalid and does not leave.

Newart vill romain alont for any opportunity to

develop a highly contidential source:

I-10111

NH 53025

DooId: 32125780

Page 3

---

