# docid-32292308

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records COllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017,

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10209-10084

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-400

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/14/1961

8

GAL, ACT, TRA, RES, ASSOC, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC 2 A/T

v9 1

DocId: 32292308

Page 1

385

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act' of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

NA.

FBI.

Date:

12/14/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEE

AIR MAH

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

SAC,

CHICAGO (92-350-SUB L)

GUS

ALEX, aka

AR

"JUNE"

Re your radiogram, dated 8/24/61, granting Bureau

authorization for preliminary survey.

There is enclosed herewith one copy of an FD-142.

Preliminary surveys have been conducted by sound

Agents DONALD W. PETERSON, GEORGE H. PARFET, and LLOYD H.

NELSON relative to establishing misur coverage in apartment

of GUS ALEX, Apartment 10C, 1150 North Lake Shore Drive,

Chicago.

Subject's apartment faces a northerly direction over-

looking Lake Michigan with the wall facing the lake entirely

of glass.

Immediately west of subject's apartment, beyond

a common wall, (acoustically designed so that the steel studs

are not common

to each room) is the apartment of PCI JOHN

LEATH, a bachelor, age about 50, and who is well established

in the advertising field. His apartment number is lOD.

LEATH is co-operative and has granted the use of his apartment

in his absence.

The exact nature of Bureau operations against

ALEX, of whom he is acquainted only through newspaper publicity,

have not been divulged to him and he is of opinion Agents are

using his apartment only to listen through the common wall.

No entrance is possible into the apartment of GUS

ALEX due to specialized locks he installed and for which

locks he has refused to

fufnish a key

the building:

REC- 48 5

o the management

2592140

cox

Bureau (Encil"

Chicago

(1-134-44)

LAN: rmh

(5)

/ Wick

12-16

F$

16:

137441612-3182-

Approved:

/ Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32292308 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Cöllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-359-SUB L

At the bottom of the window walls facing northward

is a metal hood covering a baseboard type finned heating pipe.

At the juncture of the common wall this pipe, less its fins,

penetrates from LEATH's apartment through the common wall

which is approximately 14" thick at this point into an area

apparently inside a similar hood covering in ALEX's apartment.

indication that an installation of this type could be

Should this intallation be approved, a 24 guage

two-conductor cable would be led from the microphone and led

westward along the window wall inside the hood previously

mentioned.

The hood terminates at LEATH's west wall and it is

believed that the baseboard could be pried back sufficiently

to accept the cable which would have to run approximately

18 feet to a point where it could enter a flesh-mounted

which is used

for LEATH's service.

a wire closet on the ninth floor,

one floor beneath apartment

of ALEX, and it is anticipated that a leased line service

can be secured to the Chicago Office consolidated plant without

charge.

Inasmuch as the afore-mentioned service, of necessity,

had to be conducted when ALEX's apartment was empty, the

quality of a misur on this target will not be determined until

the installation would be accomplished.

Should authorization be received, LEATH will not in

any way be apprised of the fact that a technical operation has

been Installed and that the

conductor passes through his

apartment.

* is died at manese actor e catcas /

| to Install a raisur of AlEX in the manner indicated above.

GALE

-2-

DocId: 32292308 Page 3

---

