# docid-32306927

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10291-10067

RECORD SERIES:

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3267-427

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/13/1963

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

JRO, ASSOC, FRIEDMAN, MAURICE H., B/F INT, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/15/1998

INDEFINITE

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32306927 Page 1

---

## Page 2

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992-4444562107 HotelS

DATE: (19-12-2017

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

Mr. Belmont

Nir. Mohr.

Mr. Casper.

FBI.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Date:

2/13/63

Mr. Jvans.

Mr. Gale...

Mr. Rosen

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Tele. Room.

-- ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy=

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATES-19.95 3rSlab

rido

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC,

LOS ANGELES (92A13B)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka

AR

JUNE

RE:

ATTENTION:

DIRECTOR

ASSISTANT

EVANS

tea pral

MAURICE ELFRIENNAN, a part owner of the New

Frontier Hotel, Las

vegas. Nevada,

is a very close friend

Of ROSSELLI.

He has been associated in several business

ventures in Las Vegas with ROSSELLI; for example, the

Carver House Hotel and Marina, Inc.

In addition,

infor-

mation was

received

• from LV 39-C*

which indicated that

ROSSELLI might possibly have some interest in the New .

Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas. LA 4268-C, during the past

several months,

has reported that ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN

are together at the Friar's Club in Beverly Hills on nearly

a daily basis when FRIEDMAN is In the Los Angeles area.

Information received from other informants indicate that

ROSSELLI and FRIEDMAN associate socially, and frequently

go to dinner and night clubs together.

FRIEDMAN resides in Las Vegas, but comes to Los

Angeles several times each month and on

some of these

occasions, stays as long as several weeks.

When he comes

to the Los Angeles area,

he stays at the Beverly Crest Hotel,

125 South Spalding , unless for some reason he is unable to

obtain a reservation. A review of information concerning his

visits to Los Angeles since about October,

1961, reflects

he frequently is assigned to Room 415, which is a corner room:

on the fourth floor.

If he is not assigned to this room,: he:

is usually assigned to some other room on the fourth floor.

72-326%

437

Bureau

- Los Angeles i

HFD: gcw

1422%

3/K viet

REC- 45

EAt:

Approved:

Sent # 022.

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32306927 Page 2

---

