# docid-32373577

## Page 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY = CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10308-10076

RECORD SERIES * JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144

USC

2107 Notel.

Case#: NUT

53217

ate: 06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

TO : CHIEE, SAS

TITLE : DISPAICH: INFORMATION POSSIBLY CONNECTED WITH THE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS : REPORT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

* SECRET

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

*09/18/98

COMMENTS

:JEK-WE02 : E005 : 1998.09.18.11:55:59:030129

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10308-10076

WH 53217

DocId:32373577 Page 1

---

## Page 2

#LASSICATION

DISPATCHM

Chief, SAS

KrO.

Chief, BE: Chlet of Stutton,

serpany

NO INDEXING EROUK

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN SOOGE INDEUNG

Cries of Base, Hambury 405

DEBA DETe

Tornedy

information Possibly Connected with lbe Assassinetion of President

ACTION, REQUIRED PERCENCES

Subjoct (Identity A of X0Gs-2864,

24 February 1964)

advised

ax: on 15 October 1964 of Information which had come

to his attontion in Cuba on 23 November 1963 but which he had

forgottee about in the mentine.

The release of the Darren

Connisslou Report on the aseuselhatton of President Kennedy

reminded him of the tolloring Incident:

On 23 Novesber 1953 Professor Inu APIAGAS,

3a well now

Cuban

scientist and acqualntance of Subject's at ICIDCA

(Instituto Cubano de Inventignclones Cana de Azucary mur Derivedos) ;

told Subject that by chance

• be had been at the Ravens airport

on the afternoon of 22 Noverber 1963. At 1700 bours an aircraft

with Mexican saridings Jended and parked at the far side of the

field and tro men,

whos be recognized as Cuban Hgangsters!!

lightrd, entered

the terr entranco of the adainletratlos

bulldirs, and disappeared without going through the norusl

customs procedure.

"AFIAGAS" CurIOsity was aroused, and be

was able to loaTh that the alrcraft had Just arrived from Dallas;

Texas, via Tijuana and koxico City,

The plane had been forced

to land ko Tijuans due to engine trouble.

By combining the

date, the origin of the tight, and the crow reputation on

the two men, APIACAS. theorized

that the two men nust have been

Involved somehow in the assassination of President Kennedy He

speculated that Lee OSFALD had acted in the pay of CASTRO, and

that the two Cubans had been in Jillas to orcanize or oversoe

the operation,

APIAGAS told Subject that he bad been greatly

distressed by what he had seen and heard, and had to tell sombone

/ CONTINUED/

als tribution:

2 - C/SAS

2

- C/EE

- COS,

G (sonin)

G (Fran)

CAOSS REVERENCE TO

DIST KICH STASOL NAD NURGER

SCGA -3171

CHASIR CATCHE

DATE

2 November 1964

HH 53217 DocId:32373577 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CAASSIACAON

BEACH 50

CAVEND

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

2004-62 72

about it. Be cautioned Subjoct not to tell anyone elee about

It, or they would both be shot by the Cubene.

3.

Subject declined to nage the source becsuse he is stil]

in Cuba.

(Comment:

Subject's wife privately gave us the

sourceto last name,

but whe could give no further details.)

Sabjoct stated that the above 1s all he ms told of the lacident

by Ms source, and he had not querted him for further details.

He are formuding the above for your Information in

the event ODENVI nuy kish to conduct a check of Dallas airport (s)

records for planes leaving on or Just prior to 22 Noverber 1963.

It is requested that our source be protected in say lavestigation

of this incident because he is associated with a cirrent KUDOVE

operation.

Civict 11

Daniel H

Hereberta

HH 53217 DoCId:32373577 Page 3

---

