# docid-32303215

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10283-10227

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-80291-7, 8

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

STAFFORD, LEMAN L. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/14/1959

, PAGES:

64

SUBJECTS :

DEB, ASSOC, JHO, WAM, WEAPONS, CUBA, ACA, POLIT,

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, B/F INT, PANAMA, FINANCES,

TEAMSTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE i, INDEX PAGES i-iv, INC A/T, NOTE

• y9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215

Page 1

---

## Page 2

subject, who inas

investigation by

Customs, was rep

ntact with

William Alexander morgan,

cuban revolutionary

figure,

7/30/59. Although the Dominican

General Consul is alleged' to have given's

subject one hundred and fifty-two thousan

dollars for Morgan, Morgan claims he is not on

friendly terms with subject.;

advised subject has been in and out of Clevelani

for several weeks and is apparently connected

with group of Teamster officials including

Louis "Babe"

Triscaro, Joseph Iriscar,, Al

Naiman, and possibly James Hoffa.

According

to informant, subject apparently planningto

enter into a business venture with Teamster.

group.

On 10/18/59 subject in possession of

two fifty thousand dollar cashier's checks

which were to be negotiated to finance venture.

These checks were drawn on foreign bank and

subject indicated to informant he had

received them from Batista group for a plane

deal.

Being disseminated to State,

Internal

security Division, Customs, ánd CIA.

MIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATIOM 2 WE/ORS

CIN THIS DOCUME

DO PEMATION

Dhchan 238

KP 11-14-97

- ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEI

DATE /-25.93 BY SP8 mACEH

(JFK)

ALL INSORMATION CONTAINED

ARROIN US UNCLASSTETID EXCEP

ALL 90021/12120980

TA

12979

orann

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via,

AIR TEL

TO:

FR

SUBJECT:

F.BI

Date: 10/23/59

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

--.

MA RAS ME OP IFCTI

DFC: A

RELE

Mr. Tolso

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Delbache

Mr. McGuire.

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen..

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room.

Mr. Hoiloman

Miss Gandy.

AND

JRN

IN THIS NOGUMENT 10-10-97

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIFIE

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-80291)

SAC, CLEVELAND (105-3877

DOMINICK E. BARTONE

IS - CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

Re report of SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR., at Miami,

dated 10/14/59.

CV 428-C advised 10/22/59 that on 10/18/59 he was

contacted by DOMINICK BARTONE and met with him in the office

CV 428-C

stated BARTONE exhibited to him what he described as two

$50,000.00 Cashiers checks" drawn lon à foreign bank,

probably South America, which he indicated he had received

for a plane deal. He stated BARTONE told him the money

was coming from the BATISTA group.

He stated that BARTONE

told him they still had ten planes left and mentioned

that he had sold or bet intended to sell two planes for

Gm

delivery to Nicaragua.

CV 428-C advised that BARTONE told him th

Government's case against him in Miami was being fixed and

Custons

CRICIN, STATE

étavitante

•I would néver come to trial.

Isd, DETRoit.

No lof cleveland for several weeks and ia

CV..428-C advised that BARTONE has been in and out

several weeks and is apparently connected.

105-80941-

MM,

- Detroit (RM)

REC- 92

STROYED

- Miami (105-2006) (RM)

- Cleveland

105-3363)

rs. 100

15 OCT 26 1059

MAY 1 6 1973.

1

92-179)

137-691 A)

WCF /mrf

4c Dozhoe

a Approved

_ Sent

Special Agent in Charge

гОГ20И

SOCI SE

Per so bised

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215 Page 3

---

## Page 4

D

CV 105-3877

with a group which reportedly included LOUIS "BABE" TRISCARO,

his brother JOSEPH TRISCARO,

AL NAIMAN, and other unidentified

Teamster Officials,. and possibly JAMES HOFFA.

Source advised

that the above-mentioned group succeeds the Tri-Mix Ston€

Co:, a Cleveland distributor for Niagara Crushed Stone Quarry

located in Port Colbourne, Ontario, Canada, reportedly owned

by AL NAIMAN.

CV 428-C previously advised that in a meeting in

NAIMAN's Office, on 10/17/59 attended by BARTONE, the TRISCARO

brothers, and AL NAIMAN that this group was making arrangements

to get money from a Detroit bank previously utilized by the

Teamsters Union to secure funds to continue the operation of

Niagara Crushed Quarry in Canada, owned by NAIMAN.

CV 428-C

stated that if this refinancing was successful that NAIMAN

would own about one half the company and the other half would

be owned by the above-mentioned group.

CV 428-C advised that

BARTONE told him on 10/21/59 he was leaving Cleveland that

date for Detroit to arrange financing and was to meet there

with attorneys for the Canadian Steamship Co., who nave been

transporting stone from the Niagara Crushed Stone Quarry, gom

Port Colbourne, Ontario, via their boats across Lake Erie

to Cleveland.

CV 428-C opined that the two $50,000.00 Cashiers

Checks were to be negotiated at the Detroit bank and were to

be utilized in the financing of the new venture.

Two copies of this communication are being designated

for the Detroit Office in view of their interest in JAMES

HOFFA®

It is being left to the discretion of the Miami

Office as to what investigative steps they desire taken in

captioned matter since Detroit does not have a copy of

referenced Miami report.

-2-

C8].l05s!

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-2006

INFORMANTS

IDENTITY

MM T-1 Jis MM 635-S, contacted 5/26/59,

*by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

MM T-2 is General MANUEL BENITEZ, Cuban

exile living at 220 Zamora Avenue, Coral

Gables, Florida, former Chief of Cuban

National Police 1944-48, contacted

5/29/59, 6/19/59, by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS,

JR. and by SA DAVIS and SA LEMAN L.

STAFFORD, JR. on 8/14/59. (By request)

MM I"3 IS JOSEPH CAMILLERE, 3761 NW Ist

Street, Miami, Florida, a pilot at Miami,

contacted 6/10/59, by SA GEORGE E.

DAVIS, JR. (By request)

MM T-4 - ROBERT AYLOR, doorman, Montmartre

Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida, contacted

7/28/59, by SA LEMAN I.. STAFFORD, JR.

(By request)

MM T-5 is Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba;

Legat cable to Bureau 8/3/59.

MM T-6 1s MARIANO FAGET, 75 SW 32nd Court,

Florida, former Chief of Cuban

contacted by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR. on

8/20/59.

•" (By request)

LOCATION

134-211 Sub A-1460 %)

(M)

105-1742-263

105-1563-39

105-1563-47

105-1571-33

105-1563-46

Instant report,

page 22

105-1563-57

105-1563-88

105-1571-41 p. 2

-H .

- COVER PAGE -

SECRETI

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215 Page 5

---

## Page 6

OTHER 4

MM 105-2006

SECRET

IDENTITY

MM T-7 is RICHARD B. JAFFE, PSI Under

Development, Miami, Florida, almostar

constant companion of ROLANDO MASFERRER,

former Cuban senator and newspaper!

publisher, now exiled Miami, Florida.

JAFFE contacted 8/21/59, by SA GEORGE E.

DAVIS, JR. and on 8/24/59, by SA LEMAN I..

STAFFORD, JR.

MM T-8

CIA reports

Out # 90344, 8/27/59

Out #

- 90983, 8/29/59

Out #

91714, 9/2/59

Out: #

92844, 9/4/59

MM T"9 is

PCI,

Miami Office, Doorman,

Americana

Hotel, Miami

Beach, Florida,

contacted 9/4,12/59, by SA JAMES E.

HASTINGS.

LOCATION

134-370 Sub A-2,

Sub A-9

105-2006-3

10592006-2

105-2006-5

137-1854-4

MM I-10 is JANET SUMMERS, District

Manager's Clerk, Southern Bell Telephone

Instant report,

page: 39

and Telegraph Company, Miami Beach,

Florida, contacted 10/7/59, by SA LEMAN I.

STAFFORD, JR. (By request)

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed in this report and "" symbols were utilized

only in those instances where identities mist be concealed.

- It =

• COVER PAGE •

(SECRET

NW 45712 DocId: 32303215 Page 6

---

