# docid-32297306

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/24/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10082

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2717-530

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/17/1962

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

ABR, ASSOC, EMP, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45737 DoçId: 32297306

190

Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-11 (Rav. 25-6257

DECODED

COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans .

Malone

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel_

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes .

Gandy -

X Radio

• Teletype

URGENT

TO DIRECTOR

4-17-62

Eter

FROM SAG PHILADELPHIA . 172031

ANGELO BRUNO, AKA; AR. DAILY RAD. PH 623-C* ADVISED ANGELO

BRUNO SUMMONED FRANK MONTE TO HIS OFFICE AND IN THE PRESENCE

OF PHIL TESTA CRITICIZED MONTE FOR NOT BRINGING TO HIS ATTENTION

SOONER THE TRIP IGNATIUS DENARO (IDENTIFIED BY BRUNO AS A

ORGANIZATION MEMBER FOR THE PAST 30 TO 35 YEARS) MADE TO THE

NEW YORK COMMISSION WITH A "BEEF" OVER BRUNO'S HEAD. SAM LNU

IN THE RECENT PAST OFFERED MONTE 25% OF A ZIGANETTA GAME IN

WHICH MONTE ACTED AS DEALER. DENARO DECLARED HIMSELF IN

AGAINST THE WISHES OF SAM FOR 25% SAM IS A MEMBER OF "ANOTHER

INFORMANT STATES THAT PHIL TESTA AND BRUNO "MADE" FRANK

MONTE AND FRANK NARDUCCI, AKA, CHICKIE, BUT EACH. IS RESPONSIBLE

TO PHIL TESTA. PRESENT CONTROVERSY CONTINUING AND INFORMANT

INDICATES HE WILL HAVE FURTHER DETAILS AT A LATER DATE WHICH

WILL BE FURNISHED WHEN ANALYZED• REG. 62

12-2717-530

I SON OF FRANK "BLINKY" PALERMO,

UNDER DEVELOPMENT PCI - TE. ON INSTRUCTIONS OBTAINED EMPLOYMENT

IN NUMBERS BANK OF ANGELO BRUNO. ON APRIL 16, 1962 WORKED

FIRST SHIFT AT 2400 MIFFLIN STREET, PHILA. IMMEDIATELY REPORTED

DAYS ACTIVITIES AT END OF SHIFT. OFFICE OPERATION HANDLING

OTHER 4

116 APR 24 1962

2C154)

2 APR 30 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45737 DocId: 32297306

Page 2

---

## Page 3

^

1-21 (Rov: 6-5-621

Tolson

Belmont -

DECODED COPY

Mason -

Holy =

I Radio

PAGE TWO

• Teletype

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA

172031

"EDGE."

ADDITIONAL DETAILS WILL BE OBTAINED. QUALIFYING

LETTER ON L

_BEING PREPARED AND WILL BE SUBMITTED.

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED:

5:02 PM

MEL

OTHER 4

ide intellignore colo aired in the upe message is to be diseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suicab

yptographic system

NW 45737 DocId: 32297306 Page 3

---

