# docid-32338147

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90140-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-339499-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/03/1960

2

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

INW 45752 Docid: 32338147

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date: 5/3/60

Transmit the following in

UNDENTAL,

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

SiT.

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

-7.795-

Chastier or 5668540/de

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339499)

FROM 3)

EUSEBIO JUAN

700: CUBA SMI

MUJAL Y BARNIOL

700: WFO)

Taile

SP

CLASS. & EXT.

REASON - FCIM Y

і із та

DATE OF PREVIE/

35668 SLO/KSL

54 12-9-97 (J814)

ReWFOairtel 5/2/60.

Enclosed hereto for the Bureau are the below

listed items, all of which are written in the Spanish

language, which were furnished by MUJAL to SAs RICHARD B.

KELLOGG and HOWARD P. WINTER on 4/28/60:

TICN CONTAINED

CSIFIED

Three 6" X 8" books, two of which are card-

board covered, divided with alphabetical dividers,

and marked "A L" and "M Z", and the third of

which is merely bound with an Acco fastener, and

divided with five labeled tabs.

MUJAL said the persons and organizations

mentioned therein

are Communists, and that infor-

mation has been gathered at his instructions

by "his men" in Cuba since the rise of FIDEL

CASTRO. It was brought out of Cuba to him by

ENCIES

ROVISi

RBK: sks

(4)

AIRTEL

A list of names on a single sheet of paper

on the letterhead of Ministerio del Trabajo,

Republica de Cuba, some of which are checked,

red pencil.

Bureau

(Enc SINCI

but the 1607. 100-339.

MiGHT

580/60 c

5-.

4.0

+ SPICINENS RETAINED IN

KAY. ACTION AND KAPORT

-wit

Approved:

FElista

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

HAT.

Per

TAL

NW 45752 DocId: 32338147

Page 2

---

## Page 3

[NO 234-3503) (E4)

SECKET

CONFIDENTIAL.

MUJAL said those that are checked are individuals

publicly known in Cuba as communists.

Stapled

"COMUNISTAS EN LOS LABORATORIOS TIMOUTI TOUZET. " (EUP)

to that sheet is a list of names captioned,

biographical

commented on therein fe

data concerning various persons

> (4)

captioned, "FEDERACION

of that union and furnishes biographical data

on those who are known to be communists, and

who are listed in red. ser(u)

5. A compilation of papers bound with string

identifying various individuals and furnishing

data and newspaper clippings, et cetera regarding

those individuals. One page thereof is captioned,

"RELACION DE LOS PRESIDENTES O ENCARGADOS DE LOS

COMITES NACIONALES DEL CONCURSO PRO-FESTIVAL DE

LA JUVENTUD Y SUS DIRECCIONES POSTALES. "C

•(4)

MUJAL advised that particular information on that

page was stolen from the files of the headquarters

of the Communist Party located on Carlos Tercero

Street, Havana, Cuba. (eXu)

6.

One Manila folder entitled, "PROPAGANDAS Y

VOLANTES DEL P.S.P.," containing various examples

os propaganda issued in Cuba, (e)(4)

MUSAL specifically requested that copies of this

(1)

material be made available to CIA.

He said it is not necessary

that the originals be returned to him.

It is requested that the Bureau translate this

material,

furnishing._a.copy.of same to WFO.

It is further

requested that a copy of the translation anấ/or

be made for submission to CIA. In that regard it is noted

(4)

MUJAL does not desire that the originals be returned to him

after translation obtained.

so the Bureau might consider forwarding the originals to CIA,

"In the event it is felt that

dissemination of the infomation should be made to agencies

other than CIA, lit is requested that, if possible, sufficient

copies of the translation be made to afford such disseminatio

is a queta

+*

NW 45752 DocId: 32338147

Page 3

---

