# docid-32556710

## Page 1

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

am $ MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOV

INMENT

Memorandum

Tolson

Belmont V.

Mohr _

De Loach .

Caspe

Callaha

TO

Mr

_Conrad

FROM

- REVIEWED BY

DATE: November 29, 1965

TUFK TASK FORCE

W. D. Griffith

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

SUBJECT:

ON -

Gus

PAlex

Anti-Racketeering

I RELENGE IN FUEL

E RELEASE IN PART

E TOTAL DENIAL

A memorandum

from T. J. McAndrews to Mr. Gale

dated 11/22/65 advised that Gus

Alex,

a Chicago hoodlum

who has been banned as an undesirable from entering

Switzerland, has made efforts to have the ban lifted.

Swiss authorities have requested the Bureau, through

Legat, Bern,

to furnish them with verification of

Alex's identity.

1-1,2

• Enclosed for examination by the Laboratory were

documents obtained from sources in Switzerland, which were

designated @cl through QcT, and documents obtained from

sources in this country which were designated KcE-

Examination of these documents, further described

on page 2 disclosed that the Alex signatures on specimens &

Qc1, QC3, QC4, QC6, and Qc7 had been prepared by Gus Alex,

FBI#4244200, the writer of specimen Kcl and signatures ons

cards in his identification record. Significant

similarities indicate that the Alex signatures on specimens

Qc2 and Qc5 may also have been prepared by Gus Alex.

RECOMMENDATION: That the enclosed documents and the

of the Laboratory examination

be sent to the

fresult

Criminal Intelligence and Organized Crime Section of! the

Special Investigative Division, which will forward them s

to the Legat, Bern.

Enclosures (8 netd to file.

detached

1 - Mr.

Gale (Mx. Legget.)

Mr.

Conrad

REC-

Mr yGriffith

1 - Mr.

Oberg

9253182-1120

WSO?

9 DEC 20 1965

1(5)2

Frys

(CONTINUED - OVER)

Repra

NW 45679 DooId: 32556710 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Memorandum to Mr. Conrad

RE:

Gus Alex

Qel Photocopy of one-page typewritten letter to

_ Lac Hotel, zurich, switzerland, signed

QC2

Photocopy of one-page handwritten fetter dated 12/4/-

signed "G. N. Alex

c/o Celano

Ipc."

QC3

Photocopy. of Dolder Grand Hotel registration card

dated 21/12/63, signed "Alex"Gus" and "Dietgardyrueger"

4. 3

Qc4 Photograph of pages 2 and 3 of passport of Alex

issued 3/21/63

QC5

Photocopy of registration card No. 83657, in the

name

• "Gus Alex"

QC6

QOT

Kcl

Photocopy of Baur au Lac Hotel

registration card

dated 5/1/59, in the name "Gus Alex"

Photocopy of Baur au Lac Hotel registration card

dated

/1/58, in the name "Gus Alex"

*thu

Five photographs of portions of income tax returns,

four photographs of portions of passport material

and

photocopy of passport application dated 6/29/55 bearing

known handwriting of GUS ALEX

-2-

67-3182-1120

HH 45679

DocId: 32556710

Page 2

---

## Page 3

7=2,

RECORDED

11/26/65 sf

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Laboratory Work Sheet

NO LAB FILE

Re:

GUS ALEX

ANTI-RACKETEERING

File #

92-3182-1120

Lab. #

D-493538

IK

Examination requested by:

Bureau Request

Examination requested:

Result of Examination:

Document

Letter dated 11/22/65

Date received:

11/23/65

Examination by: Oberg ("/26/65

2. big sins in indicate that the alex sigs a specs des a bas

may alon have been prep ts boo Alep.

serio

- 29 25

Specimens submitted for examination

one-page

Tu Baur au

Loe Hotel, Zurich, switzerland,

Qcl

Photocopy of/typewritten letter/dated 10/19/62

beginning "Would appreciate you reserving... and

signed "G. N. Alex"

Qc2

deted 12/41-

Photocopy of one-page handwritten letter/beginning

"Would you please bewe" and signed "G. N. Alex" % Celona Inc."

QC3

Photocopy of Dolder Grand Hotel registration cards

dated 21/12/63, in the name "Alex Gus" and "Dietgard Fueger"

QC4

Photograph of pages 2 and 3 of passport of ALeR issued 3131/63

Photocopy of

Qc5 /registration card No. 83657, in the name "Gus Alex"

Baur au Lae Hotel

QC6

Photocopy of/registration card dated 5/1/59, in the

name "'Gus Alex"

Bour au hac Hotel

QC 7

Photocopy of/registration card dated _/1/58, in the

name "Gus Alex"

Page 1

(continued on next page)

92-3182-1120

NW 45679 DooId: 32556710 Page 3

---

