# docid-32286455

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10231

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/25/1968

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286455

Page 1

114

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records CollectionA

DATE: '11-14-2017

OPTIONAL. FORM NO. 10,

5010-107-02

EDITIAN

GSA GES. RES

'0. 272

UNITED STATES

IMENT

F(3) D

.4?

Memorandum

Use 2100 Hotel.

STREIS

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

& REVIEW COMMITTEE (DRO)

SES P. VERSE

ACTION

BY

S.ANITII

AND FITYA

ADVISED BY

SLIP (S) OP

DATE

DATE:

Legat,

Mexico City (92-13)

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA

INTIRACKETEERING

aka.

NSTE

Remylet

12/13/67₴

EXEMPT DA

•JAIL OF DECLASSIFICATION INDEE INFT

&MEX-170 who

has furnished reliable information in the

past, advised that the Mexican Immigration Service received

information on 1/7/68 from the manager of the golf club in

Cuernavaca that the Subject had returned to the club on that

date.

He advised that consideration was given to sending

agents to Cuernavaca on that date, but it was decided there

was not sufficient time and they would wait until 1/14/68.

Source was aware that two Immigration Inspectors

had been given orders to stand by and to be prepared to go to

Cuernavaca for the Subject.

However, these orders were never

He noted they have a limited

number of inspectors

there has been an exceptional amount of extra work during

and

January, 1968, and this may be the

not given,

reason the these site

0N1728/92.180

On 1/23/68(MEX-266%

furnished reliable informa

tion in the past?

advised his

inquiry in Cuernavaca tended to:

confirm that Subject was back in residence at Nubes 2, Rancho

Tetela, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

Workers in the vicinity

advise

that the house is presently being occupied by a person

Other than the servants

sumably by the owner, who answers

Subject's description.

X(4)

He rarely leaves

the premises but frequently is visited

by Licenciado (Attorney)

CASTILLO, who is the administrator of the

property.

Club de Golf de Cuhrravacara.rer.ma

Aside from trips to town he

occasionally goes to

Swusually on

wednesday or, Thursday

{u)

Mrs. VICKERS, who

SECEIAEHIVES

in the vicinity

a has-indicated

that the present occupant of Nubes

is constantly making trips

outside Mexico and has nothing

withtanyone in the neighborhood

Tecdad

REC- 69-

2270

(y

- Liaison Section)

- Chicago,

2

By 0-2 govs.

8 JAN 30"1968

137-50A

4)

TGLi me

RSC: ako

FEB

8 196

Suy U.S. Saw

DocId: 32286455

Page 2

---

## Page 3

eTeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

&MEX-25 and MEX-55, Mexico City surveillance informants

have conducted spot surveillances of the house at Rancho Tetela

in Cuernavaca,

as well as at the golf club and tourist centers

In that area with nasative results (D(4)

ALICKA FISCIEN DE SURE dered a possible cuntact of

Subject in Guatemala:

She was born 10/18/08 in Switzerland and was married

to EMILIO FELIX SCHNEIDER, also Swiss.

Source

attempting to secure further data concerning

this individual.

4)

LEAD:

MEXICO CITY

Fat

Mexico, D. F.

continue to art

whereabouts

I through MEX-170. €

mpt

to establish Subject's

(u)

CLASSTPIE DIGISTONS FINALIZED

BY DIPARIMON

MEN CORKETISE (DRC).

DATE:

=2-

DocId: 32286455

Page 3

---

