# docid-32290921

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10206-10197

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-631

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/02/1962

2

LST, BKG, ACT, ASSOC, GAMBLING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

+.

v9.1

DocId: 32290921

31

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: (Rev. 4413977

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

11/2/62

AIRTE

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI @-2781)

FROM:

SAC,

MIAMI (92-88) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, Jr., aka

AR

00: Tampa

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Subject not observed in Miami 10/29-11/2/62.

Car which subject uses, 1961 white Falcon, continues to

be observed at 4001 Southwest 5th Street, Miami, which 1s

residence of EVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL.

MM 840-C advised on 11/1/62, he has just learned

in the past several days that (FNU, MACHO GENER iS in Miami

area.

He said GENER was Chief of .

ustoms at Havana, Cuba,

+.

Airport, when PRIO was President of Cuba. During the time

BATISTA

was in power in Cuba,

GENER conspired with PRIO

against BATISTA.

CI recalled

that he has already advised

that after CASTRO took over Cuba, TRAFFICANTE stayed in

Cuba in an effort to take over all gambling activities,

but instead TRAFFICANTE ended up in jail for awhile.

source said that either before or after TRAFFICANTE waS

Jailed, he stayed in GENER's house in Cuba. CI heard as

a result of his close feeling for GENER, TRAFFICANTE allegedly

at this time, while GENER is in the United States, is giving

$600 a month

to GENER.

CI stated from what he knows, he

believes if there is anyone in daily contact with TRAFFICANTE,

it would be GENER.

CI further advised he hopes to make

contact with GENER very shortly and if he can, he knows GENER

will speak freely to him about TRAFFICANTE.

RE: 2292-2781-631

2

Bureau (AM)

- Tampa (92-1) (AM)

Miami

JILM: m jh

(7)

143

Approve da

53

NOV

• NOV. E 1962

wick

Sent

.M

Per

Special Agent in

DocId: 32290921 Page 2

---

