# docid-32373007

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

*Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/7/2017

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10268-10003

RECORD SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 8001357A

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE:

HELMS HEARING DUPLICATE - VOLUME IV, COPY 5 OF HELMS HEARING.

DATE: 01/01/0000

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NIT 53216 Date:

06-08-2017

DUPLICATE

VOL IV, COPY 5

UNIT INDEX

HELMS HEARING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Not Marked

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

JFK4: F4: 1998.05.13.17:36:53:560031 : DUPLICATE OF VOL IV, COPY 1 OF HELMS

HEARING IN JFK3, F4 WHERE DOCUMENTS WERE INDIVIDUALLY PROCESSED. THIS

COPY WAS UNIT INDEXED.

v9.1

HH 53216

DocId: 32373007

Page 1

---

## Page 2

104-10268-10003

GA

C/f

S.A.Stern/aw/3-27-64

Cc:

Zir. Rankin

Sir. Stero

Files

LELDRAIDUR

XAAZ-36392

Barch 27, Iu

R

10

: Mr. Rankin

FrOM

S. A. Stern

•=.

SULECI: CIA FLO On OJWaLA

PROHIBITED

Today, Friday, Marca 27, 1964, I mot at CIA headquaricis with

li, Rocca to revier the CIA filo on Ice larvey Osala.

the sile

contains those maicrials finisica to us previously by CIA. in

cudition, It contains the following materials:

a. Cable reports fron the CIn station In licitco of l'orenuer

22 and 23, 1953 relating to photogranho of a person uno led vicitica

the Cuban and Soviet Inbassics in lexico City during Octobei und

Novenber. 1953; and reports on these cables fumiahed on lovember

23 by CIA to the Sccret Service.

prichhracci In the attachments to tho CIA nemorandun of March 2+,

1554 (Commission Locument 1074).

Cable of October 10 fIon CIA Mexico City cation to CIn

headquartero

reporting on Oswald contact aù soviet Blascy, and

October 10, 1903 message fron CIA headquarters to Mexico City stavion

of background Infoination on Osweld.

Kcose tessages are accurately

reported in the CIA acroranãun of January 31, 1964.

I did not review any naterials later than November 23, 1963.

Hr. Rocca also showed ne the "printout" of the rcferences to

Ostrald documents in the CIA clectronic data storage systou.

Thcre

tus no Itein Ilsted which we have not been diven cither lu full test

or paraphrased.

When I cridenced an interest In the CIA oloctronic data

processing system, tir. Rocca said that he would arrange a detailed

explanation at a futura visit.

• lz

IP;E1l

TASSTEACT

REPROCUCTION

PROHIBITED

IP CRN

06 17 60359

P,ta

FOR FING

RECORD COPY

201-0289248

00U3572

OPY NO.

002809

HH 53216

DocId: 32373007 Page 2

---

## Page 3

104-10268-10003

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

S00-217003

1 0 15: 1004

HEMORANDUM FOR: SIT. 3. INtO Ranita

SUBJECI:

infarrantion Depeloped by CIA un the

Activity of Les HarVey OSWALD is

Mexico City, Septamber 23 80.

REPRODUCTION

ding

to This refere to your beta

tão artity of luca Harvey OSWALD ta sa

the ported September 29 10 Octaber 3, 1963..

2o I'bo socond paragraph ol yuur letter raises a queation

vich regasd to reports on current aspecia d investigation in

Mexico, de concorning Menican Leade in the OSWALD CASe.

spectically, that paragraph seems to reles to speciative

tormation provided the tillts Horse by JOSS 1 LASAGA

which ciginated mila Salpador DIAL. VERSON. CLA bas

nothing to add to tho detailed tercotigation of thia mattes

coniusted by too Esderal Burton of Investigallas, Fo

estxiN that the Cousianion is dirady la possusaLon, !

Ill be ln tha nest futuro, ol the details al the dubeacon

So. ClA 1o cooperaling veRy cladely wita tha 131 lo the

donologens al another Mericna load, as ls probably already

nows to the Comalania dila tbo coupes ol tala cooperation.

CIA developa original, subitantire material, it is der istentio

107048

20120

PROHIBITED

SCO

PAGE

COPY NO.

0003573

002810

HW 53216 DodId:32373007

Page 3

---

## Page 4

104-10268-10003

REPRODUCTION

PROMIBITED

o soport the derallo to the fomalaston concretestry tita !

ever la made availablo to the li

razisalon by the FB

4.

I'be following roplian ara leyed to the samerasion el

your sotter el Fedemary 10:

do

We are not la a position ta supoly copies a

rolagrains cont betrenatto sorier Embasases 10

Pradilagton and Mexico GAy.

Do Iranstationa di tha tha galica inserrogation

Cornisatos under separate corer.

an hand, are deduce that

on 23 Segtand

simulate tino evidence data

ones Saahe days mentioned.

Mated sace see bobatties. The wards

1a paragrapa seven ol 013 sepost, on pages four assa

five, la based on the saterassis of Slivia DUAN ad

GERS thAi OSHALD as at tha Consulste at least ance

after bio kalital visit, and that tate laser viait ses so

ts alleraour of a day sa taich the Cubes Enton, talo

phoned the senter Gonnalase abour OSWALD a visa

probless.

This tony well have been 29 Septesaber.. But

I canNot be certain di liLa coaciasion.

& No do not koom whether Cobas Consalate

erchivos cantatiod iformation as OSHAID peter

dating his Soptembar-October 1963 viola. 3905s tha

salesela ol SilVla DURAN, ono could conclide tbal

sto bad noves heard al OSTVALD until he visited tia

Goneninto is ista Sensamber 1963, The file on OSWALD

WhiCh SIlViA DURAN spentions is sas ano spo opened on

his al that time and which she leaksd up agaix then

OSHALD DATA waR piblished as tha probable asssesta

& President Konnely.

PONDINE

+83908

COPY 706.8

0003574

PAGE

COPY No.

HW 53216

DocId:32373007 Page 4

---

## Page 5

104-10268-10003

REPRODUCTION

SRAELITS

transt vas triese do first sol a sortel vioa..

Stanis statemants apa guito coonrada la constisa

JActICO, as far as to bar.

pubite charge, Ca the other hand, ta serzart of to

Sorter atticial manid neera to trapty shas tha suriota hed

DO FITTIODI TACOTO A OSWALD, aI lOTSS la MiesisO, #E

tooed the sorter official vas salling the trath.

He bellono thas ONWALD boch selophoned to the

507898 Ente

aapy or Contalate, and vas laterytened by

dillcials she

CANDI

lhasioma id

# 46 Mexico while he

la the process which do gave Th

do forwardiog address

Bt so tho Cabar Consulate.

then mislald or forgot, and finally recovered iraza Cabas

Consulats files so ha conid pass ii to the soviet consuiato.

Is coald aina be that he was talling about lla Monico City

Dotal address which ha sighs bara momentarily forgattea

white at the Sorriet Consulate.

9.. The Crben Gotualate and Cuban Embassy te

Mexico Cathy 259 sagurats offscus located la sepasate

Cubas allleial parkiag lot.

@ COrRor st Marques and Zamora Streets and li Lembasay.

Is al 160 direques Sereel, The Soviet Endeany and

Consulato ero both Arrated in a large ransion with

coreracted outs uildings.

REPROBUCT TON

that tha gaferences ta OSHALIs

pho head alice been replaced

PROHIBITED 3-

187308

COPY, 76f8

0003575

PAss 2 g2

dory NO.

HIH

53216

DOOJA: 32373007

Page

15

---

## Page 6

104-10268-10003

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

TUBt IOLET tO CabAn EquIal EURADiO AZE UF, tha leit

Mendeo don GaDa DA permIseNt tIaNsTer on la November

1963, four days befoso the assasaination, AZCUS bad

boss in Mexico for digitees yaara and li tas lonows to 815

as darly as September 1963 Ras AZCUS tas to be

replaced. His replacement di artiro is septeraser.

AZQUE was schedaled to leera la desober bus did noi

Roare anill 19 Navorabes.

We do uns knew tha might have told OSWALD that

AZCUZ or any other Cuban hed been or tas to be rapiaced.

box to speculato Plat Salvia DURAN or same soviet atitial

OSWALD complained abort

HUDUGHION

¡ATTIABIOS DE OSWALDI

activittes tall

trough la ona facilliaR. All Di Dur BertEs LAte beeR

quaried for further information but none has been

developed, Neither pros nor anti-CASTRO DErsOza er

groups hays produced what ve regara as baril informanica.

17. We cas baty guess why Sible DURAN deser bed

OSWALD an a blonie, Perhapa hia complesion seatret

light to her, compared utta that di toat littis Atresicant.

When she was arrested, the had not seen OSWALD lor

about toro months, bus apparently she had sored hito as

a blonde la has Contalas seconda.

REPRODUCTIONE

PROHIBITED

Distribution:

Original & 2 - Addressee

1 - DDP

1 - C/CI

X-C/CI/RSA

1 - C/WH/3.

CEI/R&A/RGRoccasic/18 Feb

prepared by C/WH/3.)

187408

COPE, 70f8

• 1964 (Para 4 based on draft

N003576

PAGE

• ФОРУ

HH 53216 DooTA:32373007

Page 6

---

## Page 7

104-10268-10003

AT CH

WH Diviaion

CUASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAI

FROM

SUBJECT

Chiaf of Statios, Mexico City

ZRIAFFY

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXINC

REPRODUCTION

PROT

BITED

Please transmit the attached envelopo to Fletcher M. KNIGHT osly.

Willard C. CURTIS

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Завет 63

Attachment:

Envelope

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

Distribution:

3 - WH, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND MUMBER

HMMA -22390

CLASSIFICATION

0003577

DATE :

25 October

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-

PAGE

9.32

8-002841

1N 33216

Dõcid:32373007

Page

7

---

