# docid-32287232

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10197-10008

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1509

• Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/03/1964

2

SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32287232 Page 1

131

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

10-5-64)

USC 2107 Hotel.

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

Casper

Callahan

Contad -

Evans _

Gale.

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel _

Trotter _

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XXXZELETYPE

6:49 PM CST DEFERRED 11-3-64 AAA

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

032211

Mcdistre

SAMUEL M

Katezuchetcoring

"GIANCANA:: AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

FOLLOWING SEQUENCE OF EVENTS INDICATING DEFINITE

CHANGE' IN CHICAGO HOODLUM ORGANIZATION NOTED. AS BUREAU

PREVIOUSLY ADVISED CG 6498-CTE ADVISED THREE WEEKS AGO

M

SAM BATTAGLIA RECENTLY GIVEN ADDITIONAL POWERS IN CHICAGO

ORGANIZATION. HOWEVER, THIS INFORMANT UNABLE TO GIVE EXACT

POSITION ASSUMED BY BATTAGLIA (U

MI 607-C ADVISED MILWAUKEE TOP HOODLUM FRANK BALISTRIERI

VISITED CHICAGO RECENTLY WHEN FELIX "MILWAUKEE PHIL" ALDERISIO

WAS ELEVATED TO NUMBER 2 POSITION HERE (U)

CG 6786-PC RECENTLY ADVISED ALDERISIO GIVEN POSITION

OF NUMBER TWO MAN HERE FOLLOWING DEATH OF FRANK FERRARO.

FORMER CG 6272-C ADVISED NOVEMBER 2 THAT HE WAS ADVISED PREVIOUS

DAY ALDERISIO NOW CONTROLS GAMBLING IN LOOP WITH GUS ALEX,

TAKING SPOT OF FERRARO THIS REGARD. THIS INFORMATION CAME TO

FORMER INFORMANT FROM LOOP BOOKMAKER WHO THEREFÓRE IN POSITION

TO KNOW. ON NOVEMBER 2 MIKE BRODKIN INSTRUCTED HIS SECRETARY

TO CONTACT ALDERISIO AND HAVE HIM CONTACT ALEX. SINCE THESE

TWO HOODLUMS NOT CLOSELY ASSOCIATED HERETOFORE THIS TENDS TO'

CONFIRM: INFORMATION: THAT ALDERISIO TOOK FERRARO'S SPÖT WITHS.

ALEX. INVESTIGATION CHICAGO HAS ESTABLISHED CLOSE RELATION-

ALL IRFORMATON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNG ASSIFIED

DATE 4-24-B4 BY SPSR5elcoL

÷ 10

-10g

-wid

92-31711509

5

1 2 1964

1564

i de: 2S:

If the

intelligenc

contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32287232 Page 2

---

