# docid-32289674

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10450

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-106633-22

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

12 ten dot 9e 10035099 03c

Date: 08-21-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NORRIS, JOHN A. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/19/1962

5

FCH, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, FINANCES, TEAMSTERS

UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

179 153932

DocId:32289674

Page

16

---

## Page 2

Report! Forr

FD-263 (Rev-S-

-55

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

SAN JUAN

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

SAN JUAN

DATE

OCT 1 9 1962

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

9/3 - 10/12/62

REPORT MADE BY

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TOJOHN A. NORRIS, JR.

FRANK CHAVEZ, Aka DECLASSIFICATION AMSHARACTER OF CASE

RELEASE UP GIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCLIENT, JM 6-25-97

IS - DOMINICAN RAUBLIC-CUBA

SID ISR

1-28-47

MUSYNOPSIS:

THORENCH

(JFK)

San Juan report of SA JOHN A. NORRIS,

san Juan request to interview subject 9/4/52.

dated 8/31/62.

Bureau letter 9/26/62.

-C-

stored

TYPED BY

vV

LEADS

DATE 12-B-94 SPE Minde

MIAMI, NEW YORK and WEO (INFO)

5FK

Information copies of the report are designated to these

offices as they have a continuing interest in Dominican matters.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

SJ T-1 18 SJ 474-S

Location

134-542A

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

TEX

SPE CAL AGENT

9-Bureau (105-106633) (RM)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

105t_106633

22

1-ONI, 1Oth ND, SJ

(Bv Hand)

1-471st INTC Det.,

SJ (By Hand)

I-Mans (neo) (RM)

I-New York (Info) (RM)

1-WFO (Into) (RM)

• OCT 22 '962

1E DODUCER: CODE DE IOZLICE

L- San Juan

(1-159-17 1-92-62)

REC-I5

Copy to: CIA/State/889,

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by routing slip for into.

1/A4G(yengluy & Millen)

Date 10-3/-

67 bystll putt..

1

R

51 NOW 5196 loaned to souby thor 31 ant naiterit nor its content are 0 distribu ed oursica to agency a wich loanod.

53932

DocId:32289674 Page 2

---

## Page 3

-917

FD-336 (4-4-61)

OPTIANAL FORM' NO.

•10

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

9/4/62

13 Krom :

fies

SAC, SAN JUAN (105-5396)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASS

ATE 72"

2 .!

1d211

is

SUBJECT:

FRANK CHAVEZ, aka

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - CUBA

Bureau authority is requested. to interview subject

in accordance with existing instructions relating to Inter-

views of security subjects. If this, subjects cooperat ve

no affirmative steps will be taken during the initial inter:

view to direct his activities and complete background investi-

gation required by Section 107C of the Manual of Instructions

•will be conducted and Bureau will be requested to authorize

recontact with subject as a Pft!

A.

Subject resides at 30 Doncella Street, Punta Las Marias,

Atlantic View, Puerto Rico.

He was born 12/1/26 at Albuquerque

New Mexico, 18 a US citizen, and is of the white race.

is no information to indicate subject is in poor health. He

1s the Secretary-Treasurer of Teamsters Union Local 901, San

Juan, Puerto Rico.

В.

Subject married DORIS VIERA at the home of ARTURO R. ESPAILLAT

In the DR at the end of 1960. She is of the white race and is

not employed. Free tate syndicate poom farter in Sate)

In July, 1960,

the SLIDE was attempting to institute a boycott

against

the DR, but this never materialized in view of the

opposition by Teamsters.

The opposition to the picketing of

Dominican Ships Included the arrival of RAFAEL ABREU, the ship

owner and a reported Intelligence Agent of TRUJILLO.

ABREU

personally paid workers to unload the vessel.

with

ABREU was

CHAVEZ who attempted to persuade them to discontinue their

activity. CELESTE ANTONLAXMATOS GONZALEZ, former courter

the SIM,

has stated that 'in July, 1960, she was ordered

the Secretary of the SIM Functionary, ARTURO ESPAILLAT,

•av

from the DR to SJ to deliver a letter to subject After

gd

tc

San Juan,

she cantacted CHAVEZ at his office and made

ayra

Аде-

carried to thee secret arter

CHAVEZ sent a reply which

MATOS

ESPAILLAT.

Several hours later

she was instructed to return to San Juan and verbally tell

CHAVEZ to go to the: DR.

She recalled that CHAVEZ departed

for

the DR that date.

6-

105-106433-21

Bureau

- San Juan

JAN :pml

(3)

REC. 28

25 SEP 10. 19624

SEC.

NAT:

HH 53932

DocId: 32289674

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SJ

105-5396

ROLANDO AUGUSTOMERRERA PEREZ, a reported SIM Agent,

presently in Puerto RIco In the Died that he met CHAVEZ

at the home of ESPAILLAT

He claims that

ESPAILLAI indicated that CHAVEZ might get HERRERA a better

job. HERRERA met CHAVEZ on six or seven occasions in Teamster

Office.

POPR developed info that HERRERA and CHAVEZ In contact very

often during November, 1960, relating to a shipment given the

code name "Pedal Pushers"

the exact nature of which is unknown

but believed to be firearms, bombs, artifacts and related

equipment.

POPR reported on January 16, 1962, that on 7/20/61 he learned

that CHAVEZ was planning

to

• bring ESPAILLAT to Puerto Rico as

he had been threatened with death by persons in the DR.

POPR on 5/10/61 learned that CHAVEZ had met with CARLOS PRIO

SOCARRAS and his brother for the purpose of presenting an idea

for US intervention against the Castro Government.

D. Not applicable.

E. """

1 ti

F. """

G. CHAVEZ has been interviewed on a number of occasions after he

contacted the SJO and stated he had information of interest.

During interview attempts will be made to determine If CHAVEZ

was, in fact,

acting as an agent for the Government of the DR.

Also, his dealings with ARTURO ESPAILLAT and other, Dominican

Governmental Officials, past and present will be delved into.

-2-

50/ 10120

53932

DocId: 32289674

Page 4

---

