# docid-32306490

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10290-10130

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-130460-17, 18, 19,20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/10/1964

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

OPE, BKG, DESCR, MIL SERV, PASSPORT, AKA, RES, REL,

TRA, RCK, ANTI-CASTRO, ADMIN INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T, RPT, MEMO

v9 1

DocId: 32306490

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017°

NO 105-1925

WDC: jas

SECRET

Atlanta Division in referenced New Orleans report.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Will expedite coverage of leads set forth in

referenced New

Orleans report dated 7/17/64 and will also

report pertinent information regarding this subject con-

tained in the report of SA J. WILLIAM LOVE dated 11/30/62

at New. York and captioned,

"CUBAN SABOTAGE EFFORTS IN THE

UNITED STATES" (New York file #105-58712). New York should

submit results of investigation in report form.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1 is the Prefecture

Police in Paris, Francelie

NO I-2 is the [Spanish High

General Staff, Madrid, Spain(s)

NO T-3 is the Directorate

General

of security, Madrid,

Spain

NO T-4 is the[italian Armed

Forces

(SIFAR) 7

Intelligence Service

8/To release

info; however,

concent dance

Rose Tel 2-6-76

B*

(COVER PAGE)

DEL.

FILE WHERE LOCATED

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-26

NO file 105-1926-28

105-130460-18

SECRET

DocId: 32306490

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017 *

F'D-201 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Copy to:

1 - Immigration and Naturalization Service,

New Orleans, Louisiana (REGISTERED MAIL)

Report of:

Date:

SA WARREN C. DE BRUEYS

Office:

NEW ORLEANS

September 18, 1964

Field Office File No.:

NO 105-1926

Synopsis:

to8200961

DETAILS:

Bureau File No.:

OREST PENA

AgREEd 9803 RAN/KSR.

3-3-93

JEKSPERHAL

Class. by 1565 SDP/AHR

Bate of Review DADR •

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA SOP/ahAl INFOEMATION CONTAINEL

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIETED

0/8/89 EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Military records re subject reveal he was inducted

into the U.S. Army 1/28/49 at New York, N. Y.,

served on active duty until 1/27/50 on which date

he was honorably discharged from active duty and

transferred to U.S. Army Reserve Corps until

6/12/54 when he was honorably discharged.

Subject

validated for emergency service in U. S.

Nerchant

2-1068920. Issued Nerchant Marias Document #

Merchant Marine records for subject for

period 2/55 through 10/57 set forth. / Subject's

identification record set forth. - Information

received from confidential source abroad re subject's

past travel in Europe fails to reflect any pertinent

contacts made by subject during such travel. v

The person who allegedly made the allegation on which

this investigation was based, namely, that subject

in the past planned to travel to Europe and Moscow,

advised that he has been unable to develop any

information to change source's opinion that subject

is anti-CASTRO. '

GROUR

Excluded fron

automatic

downgrating and

declassification

A review of the military service records on file

at the Military Personnel Records Center,

St. Louis,

Missouri, for ORESTES FARNICIO PENA,

serial Number 51 061 050,

indicated he was inducted into the U..S. Army on January 28,

1949 at New York, New York, and served on active duty until

January 27, 1950, at which

time he was honorably released from

SECRET

105-130460-18

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; It and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32306490 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017*

SECRET

WED 1251926

• Jas

On July 9, 1964, NO T-I, a confidential source

urttheld abroad, revealed that

subject resided at the Grand Hotel,

pass azal,

2 rue Scribe, Paris 9, from May 6-12, 1964..

Source advised

that since that date he has no longer been

present in the

tolst

Paris, France area.

Source added that subject is unknown

to the records of the various services of the Prefecture of

(62-109090-649 ice in Paris.

During his brief stay in Paris he did not

DCAAR/sophinto the attention of the French authorities. (5

On July 20, 1964, NO T-2, a confidential source

abroad, revealed that subject arrived in Madrid, Spain, on

May 12, 1964 at Barajas Airport (Madrid).: He took up

residence at the Hotel Plaza, Madrid, where he remained until

May 22, at which time he departed from the hotel.

destination was unknown but it was believed that he had left

Spain at that time.

Source advised that subject did not come

to security notice

during his stay in Spain.

Spanish records

reflected that he was the bearer of U. S. passport #92577

issued to him in Washington, D. C. on June 25, 1963.

arrived in Spain under the auspices' of the American

Company Travel Agency. (S)

Express

source abrold, revealed Substan AT the same Intormation

supplied by confidential source NO T-2.

Instant source

added, however,

was born August 15, 1923 in the United States and that

that Spanish records reflected that subfget

his permanent place of

residence was listed by him as New

Orleans, Louisiana. (R)U)

Confidential informant NO T-4, a confidential

source abroad, advised

as follows on August 7, 1964: (22)

ORESTES PENA, born August 15, 1923, in Cuba,

a United States citizen, arrived at Fiumicino Airport,

Rome, Italy,

on Irans World Airlines flight number 900

on May 22,

1964, coming from Madrid, Spain. PENA bore

passport number D-092577, issued at

Washington, D. C.,

on June 25,

commodoro.z

1063. While"

in Rome, PENA lodged at the Hotel

NOTE: P

can beg. 6, paras.

=6-

4 and 5

SAAL SPP/AHR 6/6/84.

• SECRET

105-13046018

DocId: 32306490 Page 4

---

