# docid-32316041

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10346-10161

RECORD SERIES: BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-3-170,

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

BU

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/16/1963

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32316041

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44. USC 2107 Note).

JATE: 11-14-201'

D-143 12-28-60

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI

(Buf1le 92-2924

JUNE

DATE:

4/16/63

FROM : SAC, BUFFALO

(92÷61 Sub

3)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

RE: Title

STEVE MAGADDINO, aka

Character of Case

ANTI -RACKETEERING

Field Office

Buffalo

Symbol Number

BU 280-C*

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

Microphone) Microphone

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

STEVE MAGADDINO, Dana Dr., Town of Lewiston, N. Y.

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered: -

Magaddino Memorial Chapel, Portage Rd. and Niagara St.,

Nagara Falls, N. Y.

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Buffalo Office

1

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Installation authorized per Bureau letter dated 10/22/62.

Installation was made 11/8/62.

5.

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

It is noted BU 02-* was installed at camellia Minen

Supply

Co..

Buffalo, N. Y., on 4/4/61, under caption "VINCENT A.

SCRO - AR,

11

Bureau file number 92-4227, and provides information

re activities of STEVE MAGADDINO.

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a. Is a trunk line utilized? Not applicable.

b. Is the surveillance on a switchboard? No.

c. Is the surveillance on a public coin-operated telephone?

No.

- Bureau (RM)

Saarched

FÃ: amb

Buffalo

- Serialized bl

12.

Indered

- Filed

700

Registered Ma:

92-61 Ruk 3-170

DocId: 32316041 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107. Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-61 Sub 3

d.

Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

Privaté line.

e: If a party line, how many parties?

Not applicable.

7. 'If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One microphone in a 44 A telephone

• block on the wall in the office of PETER A.

MAG ADDINO,

Magaddino Memorial Chapel, Niagara Falls, N. X.

8.

Is the installation part of' a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9.

Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received.

Staté what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See

attached

10.

Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

I1.

Number of live informants (in field division) who cover. same subjet:

Subject is known to five live informants; however, they

are

not in a position to furnish information

supplled by BU 280-c*

12. Has security factor changed since installation?.

13..

See attached.

Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title an

agency):

No.:

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a.

Rental costs for plant premises:'

None, Plant located in

Buffalo Offioe.

b., Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

Seven.

2

DocId:32316041 Page 3

---

