# docid-32331140

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90096-10086

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2989-125

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: NY

TO : HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/09/1962

38

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9,1

DocId: 32331140

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY. 92-851

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

the best interests of the Bureau and because VAINTRAUB

appeared to be friendly and receptive.

Further, his

lawyer stated he would gladly cooperate with the FBI 1n

any matter. Also, that he was primarily a tax lawyer and

always cooperates with the FBI and IRS.

At no time during

the interview did the lawyer object to a question or

advise VAINFRAUB noï to answer any question. U

Informant re subscribers to telephone numbers

was furnished by EDWARD L. BRAUNE, Legal Department,

NY Telephone Company. \

INFORMANIS

NY T-1

NY 3368-C-TE

NY T-2

NY 3610-C-TE

Contacted by SASWARREN J.

DONOVAN and JAMES P. FLYNN

Contacted by SAS PAUL G. DURKIN

and CHARLES G. DONNELLY

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and "T" symbols were utilized in the

report only in those instances where the identities of

the sources must be concealed.

LEADS

NEWARK

At Newark, New Jersey

Information copy of this report is being furnished

this office because of subject's apparent continuing

relationship with various individuals In New. Jersey.

Also,

because TOURINE, according to a New York Office CI, was

"button

man" in

the Newark mob.

COVER PAGE

-B-

DocId: 32331140

Page 2

---

