# docid-32293684

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10211-10460

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TEETER, FRANKLIN B.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/29/1960

14

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Fona

FD-263. (5-12-55)-

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

NEW YORK

[LEONID AFANAS IEVICH KOVALEV (5)

Date

Investigative Period

2/29/60

12/10/59 - 2/20/60

Report made by

Typed By:

FRANKLIN B. TEETER

10-29-97 amb

CHARACTER OF CASE

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SID/SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X /

S0bб54 на

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

FREPERENCES 18) (1)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K

130-91 SiD /KSS A70T)

Report of SA FRANKLIN B. TEETER, dated 12/23/59,

at NY.

И)

Report

Albuquerque.

(FIC)

of

SA ROBERT J. WIRTH, dated : 2/12/60,%

08 mac /Sk

(и)

22

E c -]

(и)

Classifi

3/25/89

Approved

Copies madé

ADMINISTRATIVE

SA(U)

In connection with the subject's association with

attention is called to

the fact that NY has opened a

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN (NY T-5)34 case on this individual.

By means of NY letter to Director,

2/17/60, captioned,

"ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN, aka; IS-R"

the results of the

initial interviews with Miss

EPSTEIN were submitted, and

because of her cooperative attitude, authority was requests

Ito develop her as

an informant or double agent

SIf this

Do not write in spaces below

RES: 97

EX 105

3

- New York (105-27651)}(5)

COPIES DESTROYED

5 MAR

1960V

4 5 0CT 30.1972

AGENCY

State+ CeN

REQ. RECD

DATE FORM.

7

-60

_copies made

SECRET

(Seo BE 126762-117:50)

Property of FBI - This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its-fontents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTINIOES a 344750.

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET (E0(U)

NY 105-27651 (5)

authority is granted and upon KOVALEV's return to this

country, l efforts will be made

to place Miss EPSTEIN in

contact with the subject, even though she has stated

that he is a

"wolf" and she does not like him personally.

In connection with the subject's contact with

Ny has opened a 134 case

4 case 10p is calledureau permit toat

Bureau permission

has been received to conduct a "follow up" interview

ofl

for the purpose of attempting to develop him as

a PSI.

is currently working temporarily in Miami,

Florida,

but will be interviewed immediately upon his

returnto the NYC area.

If he proves to be cooperativ

and upon KOVALEV's return to the US,

attempts will b

made to place

in contact with the subject.(s)

Concerning the party at which

first met

the subject, it is believed that LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS

is identical with the subject of New Haven file 100-12339,.

Bufile 100-363343 and NY file 100-103066, who is an SI*

subject of the New Haven Office.

that he was unable

Further in regard to this mattel, "producer" or

advised

to further identify the

the four

• "beatniks" who attended the party at LIBBY

HOLMAN REYNOLDS' apartment.

He added that he was not

familiar with the circumstances of how LIBBY HOLMAN

REYNOLDS originally met KOVALEV andKIRI YUK or the extent

of her association with these Soviets JEllowever, he advised

that should he obtain additional information concerning

these matters, he would immediately notify the NYo.(k)

Inasmuch as subject is currently out of the us

on home leaverShd all outstanding leads have been covered

this case is being placedin a closed status. / Upon KOVALEV'

return to this country, this case will be reopened and N

will continue its investigation of KOVALEV as a "Known

Soviet Intelligence Agent"

pursuant to Section 105K of the

Manual of Instructions](5)

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

OTHER 1B,1C,4

COVER PAGE

SECRET

85(1)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684

Page 3'

---

## Page 4

INX: 205-276532 65)

INFORMANTS

(u)

Identity

NY T-1

CSNY 2328-S

T-4 S

BS 178975

NY T-5

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN

3871 Sedgwick Avenue

Bronx, New York

(By request)

NY T-6

1975 Country Road

Westbury, Long Island

New York

(By request)

NY T-7

NICK CINALLI

Auditing Department

Chemical Bank

New York Trust Company

NYC

(By request)

NY T-8

PETER J. CELIBERTI

Assistant Manager

Socony Mobil Oil Company

50 West 44th Street

NYC

(By request)

(5)

OTHER 4

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 4:

Location

105-27651-252

Page 2

105-27651-221 and 254

105-27649-346

Pages 5 and 6

105-27651-197 and 219

105-27651-261

105-27651-253

105-27651-252 S

Page 17 an

Instant Report

Page 8 & 9

(Furnished to SA

ROBERT S. BARNHART)

Instant Report

Page 9

(Furnished to SA

JOHN G. DALTON)

---

## Page 5

(15

VERRORE I(W)

(N% 105-27652 75)

Careful consideration

has been given to the sources

concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those instançes

where the identities of the sources must be concealed. DU)

CLASSIFICATION

This report is classified "Secret" because it

contains information pertaining tola double agent operation.1(s)

The accompanying letterhead memorandum is classified

"Confidential" because it reflects investigation being

conducted by the Bureau[concerning an official of a foreign

government, which because of

its delicate nature, requires

State Department clearance 5,

COVER-PAGE

NW 45808

DocId: 32293684

Page

---

## Page 6

Ey-20 or 0-23-881

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

(4)

[Сору го: 708

(u)

eport of:

late:

2/29/00K/

TESTER (U1)

‹File Number:

New York (105-27651)(5)

Title:

LEONID AFANASIEVICH KOVALEV (5 >

/Bureau (105-64470)]65>

fe Character:

Synopsis:

ENTERNAL SECURITY - R JAK( 4)

KOVALEV arrived in US with family on 11/20/57; CS J

return on approximately 3/20/00.

from us, KOVALEVs resided at(40 w.

this country. Prior to departure from US, KOVALE SI

signed new 3 year contract at UN Secretariatand

On 2 occasions in (5)

received promotion to In ecinity of meeting places Es]

Informations.

ce (KOVALEV's contacts and associates and data re his(5-

banking activities reported

TFK)

[°-78414)

10-29-97

CLASSIFTED BY 5668 SeA/ISR

5668-54 mide

18/17 2814) 174) FRom V

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 6

---

## Page 7

[BECHET IN

(NY. 105-276527(3)

PETATES: ]*(U)

E DACKAROUND EN

Ja. (Arriva And Departure) Data s›

Records, Immigration and Naturalization Service

On December 3, 1959, NY T-1 reported that the

KOVALEVs departed the United StateSon December 2, 1959, from CS

New York International Airport aboard Sabena Belgian World

Airlines flight number 546 en route to the USSR on home

eaving the United States. MISHUKOV told the informant thats.

he had recently heard from LEONID KOVALEV, and that both LS.

respective illnesses. (X)

Attention is called to the fact that NY T-2 had

previously reported that it was due to the fact that both <S].

(LEONID's and RIMMA'S mothers were ill that resulted in the CS]

KOVALEVs taking homelfleave in December, 1959 rather than

in May, 1960 as regularly scheduled.

Informant further

previously reported _that the(KOVALEVS) were planningto return(S

to the United States on approximately March

20, 1960. (5)

Soviet YURIY A. MISHUKOV is currently employed as CS.

a Translator at the United Nations

(UN) Secretariat S

- 2 -

*SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page

7

---

## Page 8

"SECRET

(5(u)

NY. 105-27651 (5)

NY T-3 has reported that MISHUKOV has engaged in CS

Intelligence activities in the past.(x)

3. Residence Data (p)(V)

On December 2, 1959, NY T-2 reported that when.

LEONID KOVALEY and his famidy

9CJ Rather, according to the informant;

they plan to get (SJ

apartment some place on the East Side of Manhattan.

C.

EMPLOYMENT DATA (3S 4/

n December 2, 1959, NY T-2 advised that KOVALEV E

ad recently signed a new 3 year contract as a Translato

at the UN Secretariat. (5)

reported that (KOVALEV had been promoted to grade P-3in CS_

the

Translation Section of the UN Secretariat (s)

POSSIBLE CONNECTION WITH THE

(S SOVIET INTELLIGENCE MOVEMENT

(soviet national VADIM A. KIRILYUK in Springfield, Massachusetts.J()

They were observed at the times and in places which had

previously been set up for scheduled meetings between KIRILYUKJESJ

and NY I-4.(8)

reviously on August 10, 1959, NY T-4 had reported

hat, during a meeting between himself and a Soviet nationallS.

known only to him as "GEORGE", which(meeting occurred onL

august 9, 1959, the Soviet instructed the informant that J

their next meeting would take place at 4:00 pm on August 21,(SJ

"GEORGE" further instructed)NY I-4 to prepare a notebook (S

[containing descriptions and diagrams of those cryptographic: (SJ

machines and systems familiar to the informant and to bring

this notebook to their August 21, 1959 meeting.

-3 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684

Page

8

---

## Page 9

(SECRET ]XCU)

NX. 105-27651 (5)

subsequently on August 13, 1959 NY T-4 pesitively

identified a phatograph

identical with GEORa" (SOVIet VADIM A. KIRILYUKJas being (5J

Washington, D.C. in the near future in an effort to obtain

employment (with the National Security Agency.(S)

Soviet national VADIM A. KIRILYUK was employed as CS~

Records, United States Department of State,

Washington, D.C.,

privilege of residence in the United States. HAMMARSKJOLD<S_

advised the United States Mission to the UN that he would CS]

take immediate action to assure that this Soviet departed

Records, INS, New York City, reflect that

(KIRILYUK, accompanied by his wife, departed the United States (S]

on January 10, 1960, from New York International Airport

aboard Scandinavian

Airlines System flight number 914. (8)

- 4 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 9

---

## Page 10

SECRET IN

ENX. 105-27652 (5)

[LL, COMMOTO AND ASOCTATE JA/(4)

A. With NY I-5](*TU)

On January 21,' 1960, and January 28, 1960, NY I-5

furnished the New York Office

of the FBI with

the details

surrounding his meeting and subsequent contacts with several

Soviet nationals whom he met while an Instructor at the

Berlitz School ol Languages

Rockefeller Center, New York

i Translator to olate, and intiment uniona the

Following information about this Soviet:j(s)

June, 1958, byl

Informant first met KOVALEV

Pat a party given in

I, another Instructor

at the Berlitz Schoot of Languages.

According to NY. T-5

(5) KOVALEVI had

showed up at the party in place of Soviet

BORIS S. IVANOV] who was unable to attend:

«Concerning this June, 1958 party, informant

advised

DENNIS HARBER, still another Berlitz teacher.

MY. T-5'S

next contact with (KOVALEy was when he

invited the Soviet? attend a party given in either August

by the informant.

S) KOVALEV to invite him to the party,

the when sted to contacted

Soviet hat he brung some of his friends.

arrivêd at the party he was accompanied by 2 other Soviets,

that he spent little time with KOVALEV at this party (s

YURLY A. MISHUKOV and BORIS (LNU)E)Again informant advisec

Informant's next contact with OVALEv ame in

July, 1959.

-He and

Tattended the

S Russian Festival of

Music and Dance at Madison Square Garden.

While there they ran into KOVALEV and Soviet national IVAN Y.

FEDORCHENKO, (S)

Also in July, 1959, informant and

while

visiting the Soviet Trade Fair being held at the Coliseum(NYC.

encountered and spoke briefly to KOVALEV and YURIY A. MISHUKOV(5

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

[SECRET 7A0(2)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 10

---

## Page 11

SECRET C

и)

[v7 105-27651](5)

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

October,

at the infor the purpose of soliciting his aid in setting up

would teach English to various UN

Delegates and employees According to the informant

[ROVALEV gated that he was unable to help in this matter. (6)

Prior to his departure from the United States on

September 28, 1959, Soviet BORIS S. IVANOV was employed

a counselor with the Soviet Delegation to the UN.(S)

According to YURI A. RASTVOROV, former Soviet

Intelligence Officer, IVANOV has engaged in intelligence

activities in the past.(S)

Soviet IVAN. Y. FEDORCHENKO, prior to his departure

from the United States on January 27, 1960, was employed as

First Secretary with the Soviet Delegation to the UN.(5)

WIth NY 1-6 0(1)

On December 21, 1959, NY T-6 furnished the following

information about his initial meeting in June

1959 with

soviet nationalstin

the New York City area

5)

Informant

t had returned to New York City in June, 1959

from an out of town engagement as a pianist. Being interested

in contacting a friend, ROSSER EVANS, and knowning that EVANS

often used the apartment of former entertainer, LIBBY HOLMAN

REYNOLDS as his headquarters when in New York City, NY. T-6 proceeded

to Mes. REYNOLDS' apartment at 121 Bast fist Streetlu)

Upon arriving at the REYNOLDS' apartment, informant

learned that ROSSER EVANS was not there, but was invited by

LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS to join a dinner party which was in

progress. Besides himself and Mrs. REYNOLDS, informant

advise entire protested soviet nationals fe

The 4 "beatniks"

, whose names informant never

learned, were introduced to him

the authors of the book

entitled, "The Beat Generation."

B (4)

SECRET

- 6 -

(14)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 11

---

## Page 12

$

SECRET DU)

ANX 205-27651 65)

NY I-6 described the 2 Soviets)as being in their(s

early 30's.

Both indicated that they were attached to either

them introduced himself as

did not divulge his name.$

Subsequently during the December 21

NY I-6 positively identified a photograph of (Soviet LEONID (SJ

Of (VADIM ALEXANDROVICH KIRILYUK as

the REYNOLDS' apartment.

party, informant advised that the affair

concerning ile asociation with fare soon at the Es]

the 4 "beatniks"

According to NY I-6, the Sovietsand the

"beatniks" did not get along very well

and KIRILYUK were very critical of the attitude. expressed

by the

"beatniks" concerning their obligations to the

society. in which they live.

However, informant pointed out that during the

evening he spent quite some time talking to the 2 Soviets] (SJ

Most

of this time was spent discussing the responsibilities

of citizens to their governments in this and other countriess.

Also they spent some time discussing the situation in Red

Ny T-6 pointed out that during the discussions

which he had withKOVALEV and KIRILYUKJat the party, he let CS

the Soviet|know that he was a Roman Catholic by religion

and was notio sympathetic with the communist Movement.(SJ

However, neither of the Sovietsappeared to

way CS]

offended by the informant's declarations along this line (S

At the conclusion if the party, KIRILYUK offered (S

to drive the informant to the International Restuarant in

New York City, where NY T-6 was working as a pianist.

Informant accepted the invitation, but pointed out that

during the drive

they discussed purely social topics.(g)

-7 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 12

---

## Page 13

[uX 205-27652](65)

•NY T-o concluded by advising that during the

party given by LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS, Soviet KOVALEVIgave 5,

him a telephone number and suggested that they get together

in the near future.

advised that neither [of the Sovietsjald contacted him.

[IV. BANKING ACCOUNT DATA 1%* (U)

A. Former ]8/u

On

December 1, 1959, NY T-? reported that a check

for $38.25, which had been issued on November 18, 1959 to the

Banner Van

and Storage Company, was drawn against the checking

account maintained by Soviet LEONID KOVALEV at theCN Branch C≤

of the Chemical Banky New York Trust Company. (f)

On February 11, 1960, Mr. FRANK KURRAT, one of the

owners of the Banner Van and Storage Company, 335 East. 46th

Street, New York City, reviewed his records

and advised SA

FRANKLIN B. TEETER that the $38.25 check issued to his company

called the transaction and pointed out that KOVALEV delivere (

ed the carton to Banner Van and Storage personally. He added

that the carton was already packed and as a result, all that

Banner Van and Storage had to do was to pack the carton in a

seal it with metal bands and deliver it to the

Swedis ermerican Steamship Line for shipment Eo the Soviet

Uni ong (S).

current $/C)

low described checks, which were

account, had cleared

York Trust Company during the month of December, 1959:

SECRET

S/101u

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

(NY 105-27651(5)

Date

11/21/59

Payee

Socony Mobil Oil

Company

Amount

$28.32

11/27/59

Socony Mobil Oil

Company

13.36

boney

The foregoing information furnished by NY T-7

can not be made public except in the usual proceedings

foLlowing the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum. Furthermore,

NY T-7

is no longer in possession of the basic documents

from which this information was obtained, and

therefore,

will be unable to testify regarding this data (se) (u)

Concerning the $28.32 check issued on November

21, 1959 and the $13.36 check issued on November Z7., 1959,

both to the Socony Mobil Oil Company, attention is called

to the fäct that on December 23, 1959, NY T-o identified

Soviet national LEONID KOVALEV as the holder of Socony

Mobil Credit Card number 8314309777 (s)

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 14

---

## Page 15

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

February 29, 1960

SECRET

(CONFIDENTAL TU)

Internal Security - R

Characterized below are the sources utilized in

the report of Special Agent Franklin B. Teeter, dated

and captioned as above, at New York:

NY T-1, NY T-2, NY I-3, NY I-4, NY T-7 and NY I-8

are informants who have furnished

reliable information in

the past.

NY T-5 and NY T-6 are informants, contact with

whom to date has been insufficient to ascertain the reliability

of the Information fumished. (PlU)

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the

FBI and is a loan to your agency.

contents are

not to be distributed outside your agency. fu

COPIES DESTROYED

4 5 DCT 30 1972.

CANT

SECRET

66(2)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293684 Page 15

---

