# docid-32313354

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10328-10028

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

(Restricted]

DATE: 10/10/1958

PAGES:

34

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH SHIMON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS : 1B; 1C; Not Assassination Related

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32313351 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Pleased under the

John f. Kennedy

DATE: 11-11-2017*

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

ssassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

FE

ECRE

ENAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

WASHINGION FIELD

TITLE OF CASE

Office of Origin

WASHINGTON FIELD

8/18-21, 25-29:

Date

Investigative Period

10/10/58

9/2,3,8-10,12,

15-10, 23-26,29/58

Report made by

MALCOLM P. CARR

Typed By:

mei

CHARACTER OF CASE

OMAR FAROUK

DAJANY,

was

ATE, TOPORMATION CONTAINSD

SUSTIN IS UNCLASCIRIBD IXCESS

WHERE SHORN OIHEREISE.

9,

05899

6682/6

(INTERNAL SBOURITY - ISRAEL (S

(Pc)

AGENCY. RAB-ONI-DISIA - GLA langlatio

State

DATE FORM 10 23-58

Declassily on: 0Rd%

HOW FORW.1.1n4d8;0v

AJArJObserved meeting RAFAEI MEDAr, ARgistant birector osCS]

on 8/26/58.

then sat together at a restaurant nearby, where MEDAN was LS.

On the evening of same date CDAJANy LS.

visited the Sheraton Park Hotel and on early noming of dalesy

_subject left hotel with man subsequently identified as CHARLES

ISAAH, owner of the Desert Injand well known in Arab communitiCs

in Washington, D. C.

RICHARD PATTON)of Byron, Incorporated

a film company, interviewed 9/10150. He reported meeting

ubject through ISA SABBAGH, employee of the boice of Ls

CATHERINE WRIGHT

-14-5

WRIGHT met a white man whom she knew only@SJ

as "ARMAR"' but whom 'she described similarly to the subject

WrIaThas had sexual relations with untierland advised &s

she no longer knows how to contact him.

Subject was believed

Approved

Copies made:

V. Baccalac SincEr

- In Charge

Do not write in spaces below

20814-

REG- 81

Bureau (105-20814)] 5)

i3- Washington Field! (105-4083) (S)

_COPIES MADE

6178

FOR REHEMON

AT T BIHQ BY

HSCA RE Y:048 REQUEST.

(SEE TUFILE #62-117290)

NOV 6

1958

CIA HAZENG OBJECTION TO

- 124

DECLASSISICATION ADD/OS,

FIELEASE OF CIATINEORMATIOTACIS

IN THIS DOCUMENT.•

excop1 Ton bRAc

* ON P9, 15

SABBAGH

SECRET:

K-14.20

-SPILLANG

Property of FBI - This réport is: loaned to you by

the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to, br

distributed outstle

the

agency to which loaned.

' U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0- 344750

DocId: 32313354 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WHO (205-4083)(5)

SECRET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

RAFAEL, MEDAN.

ARCHER HENRICKK

RICHARD TOWNSEND PATTON.

CATHERINE WRIGHT.

CHARLES MOUSA SAAH.

HUNTER LEWIS SPILLAN.

MISCELLANEOUS •

CHECKING ACCOUNT OF SUBJECT.

•

PAGE

2

4

5

7

16

22

25

(5)

SECRET:

- IA -

258.1050

DocId: 32313354

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassinatión Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WIO 105-40833(5)

to have been in contact with a man identified later as HUNTER

LEWIS SPILLAN, employed by General Services Administration.

Information concerning subject's checking account and finance

companies writh wi cheale; deal bustet out. (5)

-P-

NiY

D

DETAILS:

AT WASHINGION, D. Co

RAFABI MEDANg (S)

On August 26, 1958, Special Agents of the FBI observed

OMAR DAJANY as be departed from his place of employment.

the

international Bank for Recorstruction and Development, 181€

H street, N. W..

at 5:40 p.m. After visiting the McReynolds

Cleaners located between 17th and l8th Streets on G Street,

N. Wo, the subject walked to a parking lot on 20th Street, N. Wo,

and entered his personally owned automobile, a 1955 Oldsmobile

convertible, bearing Washington, D. C., License RD 910.

The subject drove out of the lot and

was next observed in the

eung lot in the rear of his rentoned at 2514 I stirect,

entered his car, and proceeded to a parking spot located between

18th and 19th Streets, on Pennsylvania Awes wn parking his

car at about 6:40 p.m.

DAJANY then walked directly to the

Press Relations for the

Israelf Delegation to

Nations

in the lobby of the

the Unite

The subject and MEDAN were

observed standing and in conversation at the entrance of the

cocktail lounge of the hotel, and DAJANY was overheard remarking

that he also had an appointment that same evening.

DAJANY

and MEDAN departed from the hotel and walked to the Old Angus

Restaurant located nearby on H Street, just west of the

notel./

-2.

SECRE

358-10050

DocId: 32313354 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the Jöhn F. Kennedy AssasSination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Tote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETE

WHO (105-4083](5)

At 6:45 p.m., the subject and MEDAN were observed

in the last booth in the rear of the restaurant and where they

were observed to talk at length.

MEDAN was observed to be

taking notes on a white lined tablet measuring about or inches

by 11z inches. At approximately 8:08 p.m., DAJANY and

MADAN departed from the above restaurant,

walked to the

corner at l8th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., where they

talked until approximately 8:15 p.m.. On parting company,

DA JANY

entered his automobile and returned to his residence. (

At about 9:28 p.M., DAJANY left his residence and

drove in his car to thê01300 block of New York Avenue, N. W.,

where he picked up his wife and then returned directly to his

residence. At 9:50 p.m., DAJANY was observed to leave his

residence and drive in his personally owned car to the

Sheraton Park Hotel where he entered at 10:10 p.M. His destination

in the hotel could not be determined.

At 12:26 a.M. on August 27, 1958; DAJANY, accompanied by

by a short, unusually fat man and who

was described as 50 years

of age, five feet or less in height, and weighing approximately

175 pounds, were observed departing from the hotel.

Both

were observed to be in close conversation in a foreign tongue.

The subject drove the unidentified man in his car to St. Matthews

Court located in back of Connecticut Avenue,

where the

two

men talked together until approximately 1:13 a.m. when they

separated. The unidentified man was observed to enter

' 1213

St. Matthews

court. DAJANY returned to his residence

thereafter.(S):

The current telephone address directory for Washington,

reflects that 1213 St Matthews Counts occupied by CHARLES

SAAH: (S

Approx DORa, H08 5)

On August 27, 1950,

Confidential Informant I-1

advised that CHARLES SAAH is the owner of the Desert Inn

Restaurant and from la description furnished by the informant,

it appeared that the unidentified man was possibly identical to:

CHARLES SAANTO (5)

• 3

258-10089

DocId: 32313354 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

ELizABSTA

170(205-4083 5)

ARCHER HENRICK (S)

On February 28, 1958, Confidential Informant I-2

made available toll calls

charged to the subject's phone.

On August 4, 1957, a long

distance call to SP 4-4151, locatec

in Maryland was made from the subject's phone. (s

1958, Confidential Informant I-3

identified the subscriber to theaabove Maryland telephone

number SP 4-4151 as ELLA Go

HENRICK,

Bachelords Forest

Roade Norbeck, Maryland(5)

On June 27, 1958, SE JOSEPH C. WILLIAMS caused a

chock to be made of the filesof the Credit Bureau of Washington,

concerning Mrs. ELA G. HENRICK. A credit report of

warch 10, 1950, reflected that she and her husband,

ARCHES HENRICK, then resided at 4703 Morgan Drive,

Chevy

Chase,

Maryland.

Mrs HENRICK was said to be employed as a

clerk by the Bureau of Internal Revenue and that ARCHER

HENRICK since March 1, 1944, was employed by the Alien

Property Custodian as

a records officer: (S)

On August 27, 1958, Mr. ARCHER HENRICK was interviewed

by SAs RICHARD B. KELLOGG and MALCOLM P. CARR. Mr. HENRICK

who is employed in the Alien Property Section of the

Repartent of Justico advised he knew OMAR DAJANY, but had

seenth.

mon talked to

that. Mrs. DAJANY,

him on two occasions only:

He explained

ore her marriage to the subject

HENRICKE

1957 5 91RS, OMA PARONE

formerly a secret service.

DATANY

DAJANY and his wife,

BETTY, attended the funeral

shortly after the funeral, DAJANY approached Mr. HENRICK,

identified himself as an attorney, and advised he wanted

to straighten out the affairs of Mr. SLYE.

Mr. HENRICK,

who supposed that DAJANY apparently felt his wife, BETTY,

would inherit something, appeared to want to take

MI. HENRICK, however, who had been designated the administrators

- SECRET

259. 10990

DocId: 32313354

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NIO (105-408336)

SECRE

made it known that he was handling the affairs of Mr. SLYE

and did not expect any assistance from Mr. DAJANY. (3)

Mrs HENRICK said that he recalls ore other time having

received a call from DAJANY and his wife, which was approxi-

mately three or four months after the SLYE funeral. Mr.

HENRICK reported that Mrs. DAJANY was willed a certain sum

of money by Mr. SLYE, but not a large amount of money.

do not tree

Mr. HENRICK advised he does not know any of Mrs. DAJANY's

friends and reported hthat Mrs. SLYE who now is

91 years

of age is in the hospital and very senile. Mr. HENRICK

reported that Mrs. HENRICK has not had occasion

to associate

with the DaJANys any moxe frequently than himself (5)

On June 10,

7958, Confidential Informant I-4 advised

that DAJANY had in his possession

a map drawn on a scrap

òf paper showing the directions to 2008 Bradford Drive,

Annandale, Virginia

number, CL6-3809.

do noted be to read talipon

The Washington address telephone directory lists

RICHARD TO PATTON at 2008 Bradford Drive, Annandale,

Virginia,

with telephone number CL 6-3809%

On September 8, 1958, the files of the Credi

TeN (S)

"Bureau, Incorporated, Washington, D. C., were reviewed by

SE JOSEPH C. WILLIAMS and revealed a report dated september 24,

1956,

on RICHARD TOWNSEND PATTONI wife;

SHIRLEY, 2008

Bradford Drive: Annandale, Virginia. This report indicated

PATTON was employed by Byron,

Incorporated, 1226

Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.,

as a sound

engineer and had been so employed since. October, 1950.

age was shown as twenty-six and there were no prior employ-

ments or additional addresses shown for PATTON.

was a notation that this wife had worked for the Civil

Defense Administration In 1952.

On September 9, 1958, SA ROBERT H. KURTZMAN ascertained

From Is ADRIAN BORNENAN, Secretary to BYRON ROUBABUSH, (S

SECRET

- 5 -

358-170-57

DocId: 32313354

Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Rote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

WHO 205-4083)(5)

that PATTON is still enployed at Byron, Incorporated, as

a souna technician, is considered loyal, a good employee,

and has security clearance for the classified work done

there.

Byron, Incorporated, is a film company. (5)

PATION was interviewed at Byron, Incorporated, on

September 10, 1958, by SAS RICHARD B. KELLOGG and HOWARD

FLETCHER,

He said around 1951, he assisted in the

making of a film for Byron, Incorporated, for the Arabian

merican oil Company.

At that time he became acquainted

VItH TSA SABBAGH who narrated the film. PATION saic

SABBACH

was then employed by Voice of America (VOA) and

LEBANON

Arabia an assistant to the american Ambassador to Saudi

noted that SABBAGH is presently employed

with the United

States Information Agency

and is assigned

to the American

Embassy in Saudi Arabia.)

PArToN said he and his wire devoloped a cesual social

acquaintance with Mr. and Mrs. SABBAT and three or more years

ago met DAJANy and his wife, BETTY, at a party at the (SABBAGH,

He said he believed that at the time he met

DAJANY, DAJANY waS

still employed at the Jordanian Embassy

and shortly thereafter, took employment with the International

Bank.

International

Bans around September,, 1953) • PATTONS

said since that time, DAJANY

and his wife have attended

D

wife attended

at DAJANY' gapartment two or three times for a drink during

just prior to his, PATTON's, departure for the Middle East to

He said on that occasion, DAJANY prevailed

on him to take two gallons of corn oil

to a friend of

DAJANY's in Beirut, Lebanon, who wanted the oil for a

relative for medicinal purposes.

He said he dia deliver

the oil but has not seen DAJANY since that time.

-

358÷9088

DocId: 32313354

Page 8

---

## Page 9

f/Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WHO {105-4083151

only other person he associates with DAJANY iS PUNTON MORANCSJ

died several weeks

through (SABBAGE Sago. He said he also first met (MORAN (SJ

situation. He said he knows nothing of DAJANY'Ssocial E5]

activities and nothing about his wife excent that she works

for a model agency

He said he considors DAJANY) a man of (S.J

good character, knows nothing of a derogatory nature

concerning his

that (DAJAN might be,

morals, and has been nothing to indicate

activities.

engaging in illegal or unethical CS]

PATTON said he has a "secret" clearance by the United e

CATTON indicated that his wife is employed by the (S]

other countries in his work for Byron, Incomporated (5)

CATHERINE WRIGHT

7(5)

observed

DAJANY as he visited a

four family dwelling

Place, N.

entering the apartment to the right of the

entrance.

on June 12, 1958, a physical examination of the

the entrance was Apartment (Iwo.)

SECRET

-7.

358-1005?

DocId: 32313354

Page 9

---

## Page 10

/ Released under the "John F. 'Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: : 11-14-2017

Wo 205-40837157

on August 19, 1958, the records of the Credit Bureau,

incorporated, massington ces were reviewed by SA RICHARI

B.

WRIGHT, 3516 CLay Place, My Die has and,

The report indicated she

heMes had been tutored at carrinckells Department Store for two

colored" and.

years.

Her husbandewas unemployed at the time and she had

one child.

No additional pertinent information was located in

this file.(G)

Niớu De

Ine above records also reflected a report con-

cerning Miss CLARE BA HAWKINS, 700 Street, No Wo, datec

October 13, 1951. She was described as age 22, colored,

single, and employed by Mrs. (FNU) MITCHELL, Takoma Park, DO 8: 1930

Maryland, as a maid.

There was no additional information

available in this file and is not known if this CLARE HAWKINS

1s identical with the one mentioned above. (S)

on August 19, 1958, Miss ANN BLEECH, Personnel

Assistant, Julius Garfinckel's,

Ith and I Streets, N. W.

advised SA KELLOGG as follows:

CATHERINE WRICHT has been employed there continually

since September 17, 1952, and her present position is that

of stock clerk.

In her application for employment she

listed a husband, WILBUR, and a son, age four.

She listed.

there, and she is considered a good employee. (S)

on August 20, 1958, BOOKER I. SMALLEY, JI.,

3516

was interviewed by SA KELLOGG at the'

United States Coast Goward, 13th Street and PennsyLvani

Avenue, N. W., where he is employed in the Naval Engineering

He said CATHERINE WRIGHT was. living at 3516 Clay

Place when he and his wife moved there in June, 1957, but he

has never seen her husband and supposes they are separated.

SECRES

14058

DocId: 32313354 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collectin Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO 105-408376)

He said he has seen the name CLARE HAWKINS on the

mailbox there but does notknow her and has never seen her. He

said he knows very little about WRIGHT, nothing about her friends,

and associates and though he knows she has an occasional

party in her apartment on the week

end, he does not know who

attends these parties.

SMALLEY said he has seen or heard

nothing that would indicate that WRIGHT might be entertaining

white men in her apartment.

On August 21, 1958, EMMALINE ADAMS, 3516 Clay Place,

N. E., advised SAS KELLOGG

and THOMAS H. ALT that she moved

there with her husband in November, 1955, and CATHERINE WRICHT

resided there at that time with a man and small boy..

said the man has not lived there for over a year and the

little boy is there only during the evening or on the week

ends.

Mrs. ADAMS said she is not acquainted with CLARE

HAWKINS but that may have been the person who resided with

CATHERINE WRIGHT for a month or two about one year ago. She.

could furnish no additional information concerning that

person.

associates with anyone residing at that address. She said

she knows WRIGHT has occasional visitors in her

apartment

but she could not identify them and added she had no reason

to think that CATHERINE WRIGHT

was

entertaining white men

or any men in her apartment. C

On August 21, 1958, ELAINE WILSON, 3516 Clay Place,

N. Eo, was interviewed by SAs KELLOGG and ALT at her place

of employment, the Assignments Section, Reserve Branch, United

- States Army, Pentagon..

She said CATHERINE WRIGHT moved to

that address in 1955 with her husband and one child. She

said WRIGHT's husband has not lived there for over a year.

Mrs. WILSON said the parties at the WRIGHT residence seemed

to have gotten more frequent and noisier in the past year

and now occur several times a month. She said she does not

know who attends these parties and has no reason to believe

that CATHERINE WRIGHT entertains white men in her apartment.

og Verba

DocId: 32313354

Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F.

DATE: - 11-14-2017

Kenned

Assassination Records Collection

H0t- 01-1992-444-056

Hote).

W70(105-4083)(5)

SECRET

She did recall that during the Spring of 1958, some

time after midnight, she heard a commotion across the

street

from her apartment.

She observed a white female and two

colored males near a car there arguing and shortly thereafter

heard CATHERINE WRIGHT and someone else come out of

WRIGHT's apartment.

Mrs. WILSON said from the conversation

she assumed that the white female had been to a party at

CATHERINE WRIGHT's but she could furnish no more details.

WILSON said there was a girl living with CATHERINE WRIGHT

_ Mr.

for a month or so a year or more ago but she has not seen that

girl for over a year and did not know here name. (S

On August 21, 1958, the records of the Metropolitan

Police Department, Washington, D. C., were checked by SE

JOSEPH C. CREEDEN and revealed no record on CLARE HAWKINS.

Iose files reflected that CATHERINE ELIZABET

On September 8, 1958, CATHERINE WRICHT'S file at

the Probation Office, Criminal Division, Municipal Court,

Washington, D. C., was reviewed by SA KELLOGG and revealed

the followine intormation, sust f which was, furnished

that office by CATHERINE WRIGHT:

was arrest a soon as one at of neton dis i om

a Giant Food Store. She readily admitted the theft and on a

plea of guilty started her one year's probation

age seven living with her.

husband's excessive drinking.

she has a boyfriend, ERWIN

RANDALL, Who does not live with her and who gives. her money to

her her support her son.

10. 8.1957 DC

She claimed

to be presently employed as a baby sitter

by DORIS FROST, 1846 Frederick Place, S. E., and was formerly (5)

igod

DocId: 32313354

Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SCONCI

WHO 505-4083763

employed as a baby sitter by a Mrs. coLLiNs, 126 Forest

Street, S. E.; as a counter girl by Neisner's Five and Dime;

as a bus girl by Ewart's Cafeteria, and

Veterans Administration, Washington, D. C.

sclerk by the

She listed as friends DORISARNED, I5 Seaton Street.

Wee SLYVIA LONG, SIL Division Avenue, N. Ees and HaLEy

SMITH DA

3 washington Place E. Theye were letters of recommendationle

in

from her mother, friends listed above, and her

pastor.

On September 10, 1958, CATHERINE WRIGHT was interviewed

at Washington Field Office by SAs KELLOGG and ALT concerning

her association with DAJANY.

She said she has a friend, HELEN

SMITH, who used to work at the Blue Mirror Restaurant at

13 and F Streets, N. W.

She said SMITH was not now

working as she suffered some sort of eye injury and is residing

alone at an unknown address on 42nd Street, N. E

She

said SMITH's address could probably be obtained from

DORIS FROST,

tephone JO 1-4905. She described SMIIH as

a single, colored female, age 23, 586" tall, slender, buida

..and dark

complexiona: (5)

WRICHT said that sometime ago, possibly two years

ago, SMITH, called her one evening and said she had

two

friends, white men, and wanted to know if they could visit

WRIGHT's apartment.

"WRIGHT said SMITH and her friends did

come to her apartment and stayed from about 7:00 p.m. to

10:00 pom. or 11:00 p.m.

WRIGHT said one of these men

who was her "date" was called phonetically "ARMAR" but she

could not recall

the name of the other man.. She said all three

arrived together

left together and she believed

SMITH had known these men before. She described "ARMAR,"

whom she has never known by any other or any more complete

name, as about 35 Jears of age, 5'6" tall, stocky build,

tan complexion, dark hained back way to see sele

small mustache and talks with

an accent.

he drives a grey Oldsmobile convertible, is married, and

never discussed his work, and she knows

nothing of his activities

aside from his activities with her.

DocId: 32313354 Page 13

---

## Page 14

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO ({05-4083J(9)

She

described the other man, HELEN SMITH's "date",

as age 25, 68 tall, medium to heavy build, dark complexion,

thick black hair combed back, prominent mustache and

a neat

dresser who spoke with an accent. She

this man's car which she realled only as a new

said they arrived In

car with

diplomatic tags and added she has not seen that man since

that time.

She said she believed that not too long after

HELEN SMITH

I told her that that man had left the United

that

states. 135

WRIGHT said that a few days later 'ARMAR' called her

and called as often as once a week from that time until about

August I, 1958. She said he talked very nice, spoke of their

boing "girl friend and boyfriend" and wanted to visit her in her

apartment but she was afraid and would not agree to such a

visit.:

She said about five or six months later she did

that he could visit her but only for a short time

as she had other plans for that night.

She said he came to

her apartment alone, brought a bottle of liquor and was

there for only thirty minutes or so.

WRIGHT said "ARMAR"

continued to call her regularly, and she told a friend of hers,

SLYVIA LONG, about "ARMAR" and LONG said she would like to meet

him.:

WRIGHT said she mentioned this

tO ARMAR who said he

would meet them at her apartment but could only stay

until 9:00 p.m. as he had to meet his wife.

" WRIGHT

estimated that

this third visit to her apartment by

ARMAR was five or six months after the second visit and said

that she, LONG, and "ARMAR" were the only ones present.

WRIGHT said several weeks later, around the first of

August, 1958, VARMAR" arranged for her and LONG to visit with

him, the apartment of a man known

to her only as "DIER or

similar thereto.

She said she and LONG were picked

up by "AMAR!' and'DIER" near the Medical Building in

Washington, D. C., during the late afternoon in "DIER'g' car

which she described as a yellow convertible, possibly a

Pontiac, bearing diplomatic tags.. She said 'DIER" showe

no apparent discomfort from being seen with colored

girls though "ARMAR"

soomed a bit uncomfortable and theyl

— 12.

Saudi

358019851

DocId: 32313354

Page 14

---

## Page 15

'Released under "the Jöhn F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NO 205-4083715)

proceeded to "DIER"' is apartment at 4200 Massachusetts Avenue,

N. Wo,

where they stayed for several hours.

WRIGHT said "DIER"

stated he was employed at the French Embassy,

, Washingtong-

Do C., and she described

build, thick brown hair.

2' as age 32o bl tall, slender

WRIGHT said "DIER" showed several movies at the

apartment two or three of which were of colored girls

and

one of which was of a white male and a white female.

She

said the people in these films were not entirely nude but

nearly so, and they were dancing and not engaged inmy sexual

activity.

She said "DIER!!. claimed to have taken these

films himself in Washington, D. Co, and when asked where he

had them developed he only said he had a contact.

She said

she did not knowny of the people in the film but thought

she recognized one of the colored girls as someone she has

seen in Washington, D. C. WRIGHT said she and LONG were not

asked to pose for or perform in any movies or still pictures.

WRIGHT said that from the conversation she asumed that both

"ARMAR" and "DIER" have other colored girl friends.

(S)

WRIGHT said she has not seen or heard from either

"ARMAR" or "DIER" since that time, would not know how to

contact "ARMAR" and though "DIER!

gave her a telephone

number she tried unsaccessfully to contact him at that number.

WRIGHT said that SLYVIA LONG is unemployed, married,

but not living with her husband and resides at either 418

or 814. Division Avenue, I. E.,

telephone LU 4-1859. She

said she does not knots

If LONG has seen either of these

men since

that time.

WRICHT said

though she

engaged in sexual activity with

"ARMAR" on each occasion of her seeing him, she never engaged

in any unnatural sex

acts with him nor did LONG

engage in

any unnatural sex'acts with "DIER" on the occasion of their

visiting his apartment.

She said

as they were all lour in ae soon she knows this to be tire

WRIGHT said, however, that

- 13 -

SECRET

358-ms0

DocId: 32313354

Page 15

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act öf 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WO 105-4083] 6)

"ARMAR" suggested both at her apartment and at "DIER"s that

she and LoNG commit unnatural sex acts with each other which

they declined to do. y

WRIGHT said her association with "ARMAR" was,

as "ARMAR"

put it, that of "girl friend and boyfriend."

She said she did

not go out with him for money though he said he would

give her money if she needed it and in fact gave her ten

dollars following one of their dates but gave it to her voluntarily.

• She said she believed "DIER' gave LONG fifteen dollars after

their visit to his apartment as there was some argument

to the effect that he had promised her twenty dollars.

WRIGHT

denied that she was prostituting herself to "ARMAR"

or anyone

and said that she did

not know if SMITH or LONG engaged

in such activity.

WRIGHT said

she got the defirite impression that

"ARMAR" was afraid of his wife's learning of

she said she bolieved this as he always said he he elationship.

to be home

by 9:00 p.m. so his wife would not be suspicious and from

other things said by "ARMAR", the exact nature of which she

WRICHT Said CLARE HAWKINS is a friend of hers who

sometimes stays with her when in Washington, D. C. She said

HAWKINS is now somewhere in New Jersey and to her knowledge

knows nothing of the above matter.

She also acknowledged

mowing DORIS REED and DORIS FROSI as friends but again denied

a son anything of the abore master

GARLAS HOUS TEAM ERU

ENALAND(S)

On September 12, 1958,

Department of States,

, files of the Passport Office,

were. reviewed by SA JOSEPH L. DEAN

concerning CHARLES MOUSA, SAAH.

in the batic of cal 0ob, 19 To

These files reflected that

at JordanAn had immigrated

and was naturalized

to the United States in September, 1926, and prior

naturalization, ho was a National of Palestine.

SAAH listed as his permanent address, 1213 St. Matthews

Court, Washington, D. C.

(5)

SECRE H-

2801358

DocId: 32313354 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act öf 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NIO (105-4083)(5)

issued Passport Number

1213278 for 71 ondal days (figure

was illegible) for travel

to Italy, Switzerland, France, and England.

His travel

plans indicated he was traveling by organized tour for the

Board of Trade of Washington, D. C., and he was toädepart

from the United States on September 4, 1958.

His mother

listed as FARIDEN, presently resides

in Washington, his

father MOUSA SAAH is deceased.

In 1943 he was married to GLORIA

terminated in May,

SAAH is described as 5 feet in height, black hair, brown

eyes, scar on briage of nose, occupation

graph was contained in the above files. S

on March 1, 24, and 29, 1958, Confidential Informant

-T-5 advised that CHARLES SAAH was in contact with MOHAMED

ABIB, Press Attacher of the Egyptain Embassy.

do The informant advised that SAAn was socially stounted

with HABIB, and that they had mutual friends. s

On October 23, 1957, Confidential Informant I-6, another

government agency which conducte personnel and intelligence

advised that the Egyptian Ambassador to the

United States had been able to keep the Egyptian Government

well informed on United States Government moves concerning

I-6 said the Ambassadoris source was reported to be

the Staff of the Ambassador, who dated a governmeni

secretary Son November 12, 1957, T-6 advised that the

Ambassador's source had been identified as MOHAMED HABIB]S)

On August 28, 1957, Confidential Informant I-7 reported

that CHARLES SAAH was the brother of.

ISSA SAAH, Sècretary at

the Syrian Embassy.

the informant advised that SAAH was

Arab conmunity, in Washington,

D. Co

on August s, 1950, I-7 reported that. SAAH

was not

considered

too reliable because he has a "'big mouth' anc

might talk about anything of a confidential nature which was

discussed with him.

still - 25 -

posa

DocId: 32313354

Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

1730(105-4083 5)

On September 12, 1958, I-? reported that CHARLES

SAAH, the owner of the Desert Inn, resided in st. Matthews

Court, Washington, D. C. SAAH, who is approximately 46 to 48

years of age, is very short, possibly no taller than five

feet.

He weighs approximately 200 pounds, has a round face,

and a large stomach.

The informant reported that SAAH,

along with some other members of the Washington Board of Trade

had been scheduled for

and they would be

out of the United States for three weeks S

On September 18, 1958, a Special Agent of the FBI who

had observed OMAR DAJANY, accompanied by an unidentified man

on the early morning of August 27, 1958, leaving the Sheraton

Park Hotel, observed a photograph of CHARLES MOUSA SAAH.

The

Special Agent advised that SAAH is identical with the un-

identified individual seen with DAJANY on the above

date. (5)

HUNTER LEWIS SPILLIAN JS)

On September 8, 1950, Special Agents of the FBI

observed DAJANY sitting in the rear of the McReynolds Pharmacy

at a table. At approximately 1:38 p.M.,

an inidentified

man was observed sitting at the same table with DAJANY and

the man was described as white, 32 to 36 years of age, 5811"

in height, 155 to 160 pounds, slender build, black hair,.

they ate at the table. At approximately 1:52 p.m., the

unidentified man got up from the table, spoke momentarily

with DAJANY and left the pharmacy alone. He walked south

on 18th Street, to the entrance of the General Services

Administration (GSA) Building, located at 19th and F Streets,

N. W. He was

last observed to take an elevator in the above

building. (S)

- 16 -

SECRET

355

10368

DocId: 32313354 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WITO (105-408376)

At 5:26 pom., the unidentified man departed from the

GSA Building and entered an automobile, located in a parking

area in the rear of the homes on the north side of the

1800 block of E Street, N. W.

The unidentified man was observed

to depart from the parking area, driving a 1951 Plymouth

sedan bearing Virginia License 941964•(S)

was issued to MARION IFE and HUNTER LEWIS SPILLAN, 7316

yalgar Street, Springfield, Virginia, for a 1951

Plymouth. 5

On September 18, 1958, SA STEPHEN J. BOYLE, III,

advised that the unidentified man who was observed at the table

talking with DAJANY on September 9, 1958, was HUNTER LEWIS

SPILLAN, employed in Room 5114 of the GSA Building, 18th

and G Streets, N.W.(S)

RALPH GIVEN, Assistant Director for Security, GSA,

GSA Building, F Street, between 18thand 19th Streets,

N. Wos

Washington,

D. Co, made available to SA GERARD C. CARROLE,

on September 17, 1958, GSA File Number 1-25654-W on HUNTER LEWIS

SPILLAN.

This file contained the following information:S

(E)"

¿A memo dated March 29, 1956, reflected that SPILIAN, v

a Supervisory Fiscal Accountant, Office of the Comptroller,

GSA, Washington, D. C., was given an interim security clearance *

for access. to classified information and material up to and

including the "Secret" level.

It is noted, however,

that a GSA "Clearance Reading," dated June 27, 1958, reflected

that pursuant to a teephone request from 'Mr. SHROAT

of CIA," the latter was advised that SPILLAN was not in a

sensitive position as of this date and had no clearance.

In explaining this

apparent discrepancy, Mr. GIVE stated that news

=-17 -

SECREt

312-02sa

DocId: 32313354 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONVEN

WFO (105-4083](5)

security regulations went into effect at GSA in October,

1957.

Although SPILLAN's previous clearance had not been

revoked, in the event his position in the future requires

a security clearance, a re-evaluation will have to be

made in accordance with the new security regulations

and any required additional investigation will have to

be conducted in compliance with these regulations. As

previously noted, at the time of th

"CIA" inquiry, SPILLAN's

duties did not require a clearance.

SPILIAN'S file at GSA contained Asaepoport,

dated March 23, 1956, reflecting investigation in connection

with a Security Clearance that was subsequently issued to

SPILLAN in March, 1956.

This GSA report reflected the

following employnents for SPILLAN:

10/13/12 to 6/23/43 Assistant Messenger

6/24/43 to 1/10/44

1/11/41 to 5/22/46

5/23/46 to 9/7/46

9/8/46 to 10/29/50

10/30/50 to 2/26/52

2/27/52 to 4/6/52

Multilith Operator

Review Clerk

Various Positions

Claims Examiner

Civil Service

Commission :

(C,SC)

CSC

Military Furlough

CSC

CSC

Military Furlough

CSC

(S)

- 18 -

358-10088

DocId: 32313354 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CollectIon Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEO 105-4083169

4/7/52 to 6/30/54

SECKED

Accounting Clerk=

Office of

Comptroller,

Accounts

and

Reports

Division

GSA (as above)

GSA

7/1/54 to 10/8/55

10/9/55 to date

of report

, Accountant

Supervisory Fiscal

Accountant

dated and

Subject's file included a GSA Security Questionnairen

signed by SPILLAN on February 21, 1956

which

contalned the following background information: (6)

Address:

1427 Valley Crest Boulevard

Falls Church, Virginia

Former Addresses:

Presidential Gardens,

Alexandria, Virginia

302 columbia Pike

Arlington, Virgini.

United States Navy,

Norfolk, Virginia

4625 Hillside Road, S. E.

Washington, D. C.

3118 E Street,

S. E.,

Washington,. D.C.

February,

1952, to

August, 1953

October,

1950,

to

February, 1952

October, 1950,

to february,

1952

May, 1950,

to October, 1950

Do Male 195918,

to May,

- 19 -

DocId: 32313354 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

W70 (105-4083] 9)

3525 Minnesota Avenue, S. E.

Washington, D. C.

October, 1948,

to December,

1948

635 G Street, N. E.

Washington, D.

.C.

May, 1946,

to

October, 1948

Physical Description:

Mates HunTeR LEwis

Race:

Sext

Birth:

White

Male

Octobst 9, 1228inra

Height:

Weight:

Hair:

Eyes:

Wife:

57112"

168 pounds

Brown

Hazel

MARIAN LEE\SPILLAN

Born: Washington

Married SPILLAN or

10/9/48, Washington,

D. C.

She resides

with husband (1956)

at 1427 valley Crest

Bld Falls Churches

Va.

(5)

Relatives:

Father:

Mother:

THOMAS B SPILLAN (deceasea)

FRANCES VIRGINIA/SPILIAN

919 SeAlfred Street,

AlexandriamVirginia.

- 20 -

SECREL

370

DocId: 32313351 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Rècords Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WTO 205-40837(8)

Brothers:

Sisters:

Sonson:

Father-in-law:

• Mother-in-law:

Military Service:

Education:

HUGH RICHARD/ SPILLAD

Hyattsville, Maryland

HARRY ANDREW SPILLAN,

Manassas, Virginia

FRED DEO PILLAN,

VA

United States. Air Force

ROBERT EUGENIELAN,

ALexandria..

FRANCES LOUISE/SPILLAN,

322 FHowell Avenue,.

Alexandria,

Virginia

WENDY LEE SPILLAN,

218 sna2ed street,

GARY LEL SPILLAN,

1427 Valley Crest BIVa.

Falls church,

Both of 2600 Oakwood

Street, Falls Church,

Virginia

United States Navy

1/10/44 to 5/10/56

10/30/50 to 2/15/52

Attended school' in

Washington, D. C., and

enrolled at American

University from september,

1950, to time of the

execution of this

questionnaire.

DocId: 32313354 Page 23

---

## Page 24

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Rote).

DATE: •11-14-2017

NIO (105-4083)(5)

References:

SECRET

CALVIN

INTRAIN,

1017 So QuebecStreet,

Arlington Virginia

Salesman:

WALLACE D

REDINGION, JR.,

7736 Garrison Road

Wotanhan Hills,

Marylana

Goverment clerk

JOHN JE PENDER,

621 Brandywine Street,

8. Hey lia shing ton,

Government Accountan

OSA, advised on the centrat, sooty safice,

HUNTER SPILLAN works in Room 5514 at the GSA Building

' I Street, between 18th and 19th Streets, N. W., Work hours

for the section in which SPILLAN is employed are from

8:45 a.m. to 5:15 P.mo, according to Miss

MATHIAS

MISCELLANEOUS

On September 16, 1958, Confidential Informant I-8

furnished the following infomation from records of the

Eastern Acceptance Corporation (EAC): S

20th Street, N.W.,

On December 10, 1955, OMAR DAJANY, residing at 532

Washington,

D: C., and employed as Chief

of the Loan-Record Section, at

the world Bank, Washington,

D. C*1954 super 88, Oldsmobile convertible,

entered into a contract with the EAC for the purchase

valued at $2550.

The lien on this car was $2,090.80.

this amount in 23 payments of $87.70, and one payment of

Subject agreed to pay off

$73.70. However,

DAJANY closed his account with EAC with the

payment of $1,243.99, on August 29, 1956.

T-8 advised that

his records reflect that this payment of

the balance of the

account on August 29, 1956, was either made by cash

sub joct does not have an account

EAC.

22

358. 1009

DocId: 32313354

Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John E: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

W7o (105-4083719

Records of EAC further reflected that subject listed

JACK SLYE,

brother of DAJANY's wife, as a personal reference.

SLYE's address was given as 5009 39th, N. We, Washington,

D. Co

The Riggs National Bank, Hecht Company, and University

Shop were listed by the subject as business references. In

1954, HENRY C. WRAY filed a suit against the subject

the sub

"for services rendered in the amount of $150."

T-8 advised

his records did not reflect the outcome of this suit.(s)

In 1955, DAJANY indicated that his annuai

salary at

the world Bank was $5,000, and that he had an additional

Jordan. (5)

52,500 per annum from property of his ir

Information furnished by T-8 was furnished on a

except on the issuance of

a subpoena.

that. OMAR DAJANY opened a

Company in 1954. COESENS, who noted nothing significant

in the subject's account,

credit" of

$108, which was paid in full in Aygust,

1958.

subject does not owe any money on his account at the

present time." CORSENS stated that although DAJANY has been

a bit slow at times in his payments, he considers the subject's

account to be a satisfactory one.

COESENS noted that records-

reflecting DAJANY's original application, personal

references, etc. have been destroyed by the Hecht Company

and pertinent information therefrom furnished to the

Credit Bureau. (S

Confidential Informant I-9 made available information

from records of the Household Finance Corporation, 7914

Georgia

Avenue, Silver Spring; Maryland, on September 19,

1958.

- 23 -

SSA 100S8

DocId: 32313354 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREX

WHO (205-4083765)

D. C., employed

OMAR F. DAJANY, 2514 I Street, N. W., Washington,

at 1018 H Street, N. W., made his original

loan from this Household Finance

Corporation office on

September 9, 1953.

The loan was in the amount of $300

and was repaid in 12 payments of $30.14.

The reason for

the loan, according to Ing was for "bedding expenses." (5)

On December 24, 1956, a loan of $720 was made to the

subject by Household Finance Corporation.

It was to be

pald in 24 payments of $30 each.

The reason for the loan was

current expenses."

I-9 explained that the balance on this

renewed forlthe amount of

loan of December 24, 1950'5720 on December

was down to $390.

when the loan was

=31, 1957.

Arrangements for repayment of this current loan call for 24

payments of $30 each.

Subjectis balance as of September 12,

Die escort at 1482 do gast to Met de"

Reason for subject's

T-g explained that his records would not reflect

any additional loans made to DAJANY inasmuch as it is the

practice of the office to maintain records of only the

original loan,.

current loan.

She current one and the one preceding the

T-9 stated that he considers the DAJANY account an

excellent one and added that all credit investigations per-

taining to the subject were highly satisfactory. (S)

I-9 produced a December 31, 1957, application

form,

executed by the subject, which reflected the following:

(S)

"Father and Mother - AISHA DAJANY, Beirut,

Lebanon"

"Brothers and Sisters -- SAADDAJANY c/D/H1tt1

Brothers, Beirut bebanon.;

DISMAT and ADL

RAJANY, C/O Air India, Beirut,

Lebanon."

(5)

SECRET

- 24 -

95011099

DocId: 32313354

Page 26

---

## Page 27

Released nder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records "Collection Act Or 1992 (41 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WHO (205-40837(5)

The following were listed as personal references:

Dr. DUAD.

KAIBNI, 532 20th Street, N. W.,

Washingtos, D. C.

JOE/MORRA, 3636 16th Street, N. W.,

Washington

GEORGE HOMS I, 3636 16th Street

Washington,

DAJANY has a $10,000 policy with the Metropolitan

Life Insurance Company in which his wife is listed as

beneficiary. The policy was issued in 1955.(S)

information furnished by In9 was furnished on a highy

confidential basis and is not to

be made public except

on the issuance of a subpoena. (S)

CHECKING ACCOUNT OF SUBJECH (S)

The following information concerning the checking

account of OMAR F. DAJANY,

2514 K Street, N. Wo; was made

available on August 25, 1958 and September 24, 1958, by

Confidential Informant I-10. (Sl

Balance 7/22/58

Deposits (7/22-8/19/58)

Withdrawals

Balance 8/19/58

$

152.24

1,888.62

$

2,040.86

, 667.36

(5)

(5)

SECRET

- 25 -

393

DocId: 32313354 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Released undet the John F. Kennedy AssassinatIon Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Höte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECHET

WTO (205-4083 7151

Date

7/24/58

7/24/58

7/25/58

7/28/58

7/30/58

7/29

8/1/58

8/4/58

8/5/58

8/7/58

8/8/58

8/11/58

CHECKS OF INTEREST

Payee

Bank Fund Staff

Cro Union

University Shop

of Washington,

D. C.

International Bank

For Reconstruction

and Development

(IBRD)

IBRD

McReynolds

IBRD

IBRD

IBRD

IBRD

IBRD

IBRD

IBRD

Endorsements

Payee, Riggs

National

Bank

"

1ї "

11

National

Bank of

Washington

American

Security and

Trust Company

(AS&T)

AS&T

McReynolds

Pharmacy,

Riggs

AS&T

AS&T

AS&T

AS&T.

AS&T

AS&T

AS&T

- 26 -

HEN

Amount

$20.00

20.00

100.00

90.00

40.00.

150.00

1208000

150.00

60.00.

50.00

150.00

30.00

(5)

2550095

DocId: 32313354

Page 28

---

## Page 29

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

WTO (105-40837151

Date

8/13/58

8/15/58

8/4/58

Payee

IBRD

IBRD

McReynolds

Payee,

8/5/58

11

Endorsements

AS&T

AS&T

McReynolds

Pharmacy,

Riggs

Riggs

$

Amount

40.00

100.00

40.00

115.00

8/15/58

8/5/58

8/5/58

8/6/58

Sidney Z. Mensh Co.

Freeway Apt. #61

2514 K St. g

N. W.

Cash

Dr. JAMES W. CHOATE

Household Finance

Raleigh Haberdasher

Riggs

Suburban

Trust

AS&T

105.00

10.00

30.00

34.30 (S|

DEPOSITS TO ACCOUNT:

5/29/58

/5/5c

19/56

6/10/58

6:11

6/12/58

6/16/58

$250.74

40.00

40.00

50.00

120.00

130.00

140.00

30.00

250.74

• - 27 SECRET

DocId: 32313354

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 711 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WIO 205-1083 (5)

7/10/58

7/15/58

7/16/58

7/28/58

7/29/58

7/31/58

8/4/58

8

8

8/8/58

8/15/58

Total

SECRET

$

$ 130.00

80.00

100.00

260.00

250.74

80.00

110.00

100.00

350.00

30.00

250.74

100.00

115.00

266.41

140.00

242.00

60.00

30.00

526.43

125.00

283.78

$1,888.62

$ 372.89

996.85

13369.74

1, 259.02

*Cash Deposit

(5

Balance 8/19/58

Deposits

Withdrawals

Balance 9/18/58

Date

8/22/58

8/20/58

8/22/58

CHECKS OF INTEREST

Payee

IBRD

Federal Super

Market.

IBRD

Endorsements

Payee, AS&T

11

National

Bank of

Washington

AS&T

SECRET

Amount

$ 60.00

20.00

70.00

(51

- 28 -

297

fiurs.n

DocId: 32313354 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:, 11-14-2017

SECREN

Endorsements

11

Date

8/22/58

8/26/58

8/26/58

8/28/58

8/22/58

8/28/58

8/28/58

8/30/58

9/8/58

DEPOSIOS

Date

8/29/58

Pâyee

C & P Telephone

Co.

(FE 3-3927)

McReynolds

Clerk, Municipal

Court

-D.C.

Household Finance

Corp

Hotel Commodore

IBRD

J. H. Small, Inco

B. Smith & Son

IBRD

1t

11

11

Amount

$15.21

(Pharmacy) Riggs

40.00

33.00

Suburban Trust Co.

30.00

Philadelphia National24.00

Bank

AS&T

National Bank of

Washingtonton

120.00

5.00

MEg®

Trust Co.,

NY

= 235.00

30.00

(5.1

Amount of Item

$283.78

9/3/58

300.00

Type of Item

Credit to DAJANY's

Account

From IBRD

Currency

-29 -

SECREM

Amount Dep.

$283.78

300.00

DocId: 32313354

Page 31

---

## Page 32

Released under the John'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Date

9/12/58

9/15/58

9/16/58

WTO [105-4083)(9

Amount of Item

$ 20.00

100.00

283.07

Type of Item

Currency

Currency

Credit to

DAJANY

Account from

IBRD

Amount Dep.

$

20.00

110.00

283.07

CHECKS OF INTEREST

Date

Payee

9/11/58

IBRD

9/15/58

9/12/58

• Endorsements

Payee,

AS&T

Sidney Z. Mensh

& Co., Inc.

Amount

$100.00

60.00

115.00

Rental

Account,

Riggs

9/3/58

Payment Monthly

88.00

Installment Loan

9/17/58

" 11. " ,"

70.00

In connection with loans, Confidential Informant I-10

furnished the following information

on September 24, 1958,

ceming Loans of DAJANT at a local Washington, Do d., bank: (3,

Date

Amount

Payable

Miscellaneous

10/13/55

$1,000

SELGRI

- 30 -

insecured. lasi

payment 7/15/56

transferred to

Installment

Credit Dept.

with balance

$214. Paid off.

(5)

358-17058

DocId: 32313354 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Wo (205-4083315

Date

8/3/56

Amount

$708

12/10/56

11/1/57

840

840

2/2/58

1,056

2/5/58

840

SECREA

Payable

12 monthly

installments

of $59

monthly installments

(12) 01$70

monthly installments,

(121) 0f $70

12 monthly

installments

of $88

12 monthly

installments

of $70:

Miscollaneous

(Paid other

$840)

(Balance

of $616)

(5)

Paid off

$708)

First

payment due

9/17/58

Auto Loan (8) and 2 Renewals

1/15/52

5/12/53

12/4/53

$1,189.47 (Original Loan)

821.50 (Renewal)

605.38 (Renewal)

- 31-

SECREL

DocId: 32313354 Page 33

---

## Page 34

Released under the Join F. Kennedy Assässination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107' Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

WHO (205-40837(5)

SEURET

" Information from Confidential Informant I-10 was

furnished on a highly confidential basis and is not to be made

public except after the issuance of a subpoena. (5)

On September 17, 1958, Confidential Informant I-11

D,C.

advised that DAJANY had been in contact with Dr. ABDEL ALAM,

two bottles

of whisky which ALAM had obtained for DAJANY: Arrangements

were made for DAJANY to see ALAM at lunch time on September 18,

1958(5)

The informant also advised that DAJANY had inquired

whether a foreigner would have any difficulty in Cairo,

Egypt, in getting the Egyptian Foreign Ministry an the

DAJANY explained that he had a friend going to Cairo,

desired to call SALAFASASSAN

at the Foreign Ministry. (S)

DAJANY reported he would write a ldtter of introduction

for the friend. (5)

HASSAN was not further identified by DAJANY. (S)

Confidential Informant I-4 reported tha t DAJANY had

in his possession in June, 1958, Letter dated March 4,

1953, which was being directed to

Minister of Jordan.

of any wrong doing or any connection with the madman CHERTOK.

DAJANY thanked HADY for reinstating him, however DAJANY

felt he had been wronged and was of the opinion that he

should be promoted to Counselor at the

Legation of Jordan), as

the promotion was due him. (S)

The informant advised

he observed a note in DAJANy's

possession signed "ISSA"

uhich

reads as follows:(S)

"Please if you have time andcan remember

it,

contact him.

and his phone number is REpublic/77-7500

DIE

Extension 3318. (Sl

"JOAN may stay in St. Louis a few days

after I return.

I hope you and BETTY are fine.

and the

new year

1957 will bring the best of

everything." S

- 32 -

DocId: 32313354 Page 34

---

## Page 35

Released Under the John F. "Kennedy

issassination Records CoLlection det of

DATE: 1131-2017

1904(110156 2107 Hote).

WTO 105-4083 369).

Attention is directed to information furnished by

RICHARD PATTON who-advised on September 10, 1950, that he

had attended. asocial gach

ng at the home of DAJANY

with ISSA and JOANYSABBAGI

T-4 also advised

• that DAJANY had in his possession

document from the Charge al Affaires, Jordanian

Embassy in Washington,

Do Co, being directed to the Jordan

Foreign

Minister.

This communication reflected that LEO

CHERTOK was a "Jew' by religion and a cousin of MOSHE

SHARET, Israel Foreign Minister.

The Charge de Affaires

felt that CHERTOK's request should be ignored regardless

of his financial ability and that CHERTOK was of unsound

mind.

It was reported that the Jordan Government was not

prepared to grant CHERIOR any concession in Jordan. (S)

T-4 observed in June, 1958, a document dated August 27,

"' "1953, from the Charge a! Affaires iof Jordan disclosing

that on that date, he received notice that DAJANY was

transferred to Jidda (Saudi Arabia), and

that DAJANY was to

proceed to his new place of duty at onee. (S

In connection with the above transfer, I-4 advised

"that he had observed the document prepared fog the Foreign

Ministry of Jordan by DAJANY in which DAJANY stated he was

married on September e, 1953.

He reported having been

engaged to ELIZABEIH ANNE YOST for about a year and had been

on the verge of marriage so that when the order of trans-

fer arrived, he rushed into marriage without normal

formalities to avoid any delay and comply with the order that

he depart to Jidda quickly.

T-4 advised that he had

observed the document indicating that DAJANY's work at the

Jordanian Embassy had discontinued on September 17,

1953, in

order that he could travel on September 18, 19530€

In connection with 'DAJANY, I-T did not know any of

The sister's name was LEILA, who had been

010 25th. Street, N. W.

had gone to schoot with DaTaly, possibly in Beiruti; Lebanon,

He did not know whether those individuals were

with DAJANY or where they currently reside C

still friendly

_p-

DocId: 32313354

Page 35

---

