# docid-32305207

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

124-10287-10337

31-85306-1, 2

Released under the John

C. kennedu

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

ANDERSON, CLIFFORD G.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

12/19/1956

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

BBR, ASSOC, AKA, DESCR, RES, TELCAL, INTV, TRA;

ARREST, PROSTITUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

. RESTRICTIONS:

14

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32305207

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

CT 31 5829

INFORMANT

T-113 CI-207-G, whose dentity Is known to the

Burs an

TEADS

THE CLEVELAND DIVISION:

AF. CLEVELAND, OHIO:

Will ascortain suoscriber to telephone

nonbor of wroning loor and Asterytow to,

determine idontie

aty. or subject and

viotims.

Will conduct appropriate investigation of

2808 East 125th Street, Clevelard,

• Ohio, the addross used

by Mrs and Me. CHUCK DICONNOR when they registered at the

Manso Hotel on Septembes 22, 1956, and ascertein if sube

Ject and victims are known at that adress

through log oal sources,

ground and prostitution set elon orouset andreas

gecurerback

THE INDIAHAPOLIS DIVISION: (INFORMATION

Information copy sont to Indianapolis In vien

of pendins Investigation by that of too.

ME: DALLAS DIVISION: INFORMATION)

Information copy sent to Dallas in view of

pending investigation by that offloo

THE CINCENNATI DIVISION:

AT DAYTON W OHIO:

Wiit obtain identity of subscriber of talephone

rumber. MS 6485.

It will be noted that victims called tits

AN INISTRATIVE. PACE

9

31

85306

---

