# docid-32309181

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10297-10308

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-925

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

CG

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/20/1962

1

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/05/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32309181 Page 1

247

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-41 fiRev. 10-16-62)

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Aot of

1992 744 05C 21

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

CallahanG

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans V

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

J Motel.

DECODED COPY

• Radio

Teletype

DEFERRED

TO DIRECTOR

11-20-62

6:50 AM

LJC

FROM SAC CHICAGO

200847

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKA., AR.

GIANCANA, AKA., AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6564-PC ADVISED INSTANT OF FOLLOWING: INSISTS THAT

GIANCANA'S HEADQUARTERS CONTINUES TO BE THE ARMORY LOUNGE,

STATES HE WAS IN CONTACT THERE WITH GIANCANA APPROXIMATELY

TWO WEEKS AGO. STATES GIANCANA CONSIDERED THE MOST POWERFUL

MOBSTER IN THE COUNTRY TODAY, AND THAT THE CHICAGO CRIMINAL

ORGANIZATION IS MORE DEEPLY ENTRENCHED THAN EVER, DUE TO THE

FACT THAT CURRENT INVESTIGATIONS BY LAW ENFORCEMENT GROUPS

HAS CAUSED THE ORGANIZATION TO BE PLACED ON A "SINK OR SWIM'

BASIS. ALL MEMBERS FOLLOW GIANCANA WITHOUT QUESTION. STATES

THERE ARE MEMBERS OF THIS ORGANIZATION WHOSE IDENTITIES ARE

VENICE, STATES GIANCANA UTILIZING THIS ESTABLISHMENT AS

QUICK WRITE OFF, WILL UNLOAD IT SHORTLY AFTER THE FIRST OF

THE YEAR,

AFTER SINATRA, ET AL, HAVE PLAYED THEIR ENGAGE-

MENTS.

RECEIVED:

ARMED

AND DANGEROUS.

8:13 AM US

REG 14 72-3171-925

12 NOV 21 1962

TAINED

65

NOV 26 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32309181 Page 2

---

