# docid-32304084

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10285-10096

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-119764-2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

WANNALL, W. R.

SULLIVAN, W. C.

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 04/05/1963

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

LB, REL, RES, BOMB, LEADERS, COMMITTEE TO RESCUE CUBANS FROM

CUBA, ANTI-CASTRO GROUP

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

07/02/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53025

DocId: 32304084

Page 1

---

## Page 2

KASSI

'OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

Memorandum

ENT

Tolson

es Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

TO

: W. C. Sul

FROM

- fir.

Belmont

1 - Mr. Mohi

DATE: April 5, 1963

MORATION CONTAINED 1

- Mr. Conrad

- Mr. DeLoach

annaliu HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFI

АТЕ 1-14-44 BY508 мАС

Evans

Rosen

1

Rosen

CONSUI

Sullivan

Gandy

SUBJECT:

COMMITTEE TO RESCUE CUBANS

FROM CUBA

COMITE RESCATE DE CUBANOS)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

REGISIRATION ACT - CUBA

1

1

Mr.

Sullivan

- Mr.

Wannall

-

Mr.

Meier

• wastel

- Mr.

Nasca

3

Captioned committee, an anti-Castro group,

was recently

organized in Miani to effect escape from Cuba of anti-Castro Cubans.

On 3-31-63 residence of Luis and Maria Balbuena, Leaders of this group

in Miami, was

bombed by unknown individuals.

No injuries resulted,

al though

bombing caused damage to front doors and windows of house.

Local police are investigating and Department has been advised,

however,

inasmuch as local law enforcement authorities have not

requested Bureau investigation the Department requested no investigation

at this time. There is no indication bombing was foreign directed of

planned but our Miami Office is following local investigation closel

and we offered facilities of Laboratory and Identification Division

local police.

subject organization is apparently identical with Committee

for Rescue of Cuban Families which is subject of current Registrator

Act investigation by our Miami Office.

Local police inquiries concerning bombing have indicated

that Luis Balbuena may have information concerning activities of ohe in

of the anti-Castro groups

which recently conducted raid on Cuba,

Commandos L-66.

Our Miami Office has previously received informations

fron Balbuena concerning Haitian exileractivitiesonili at overthrowing

Duvalier government.

MERLIN IG UNCRASSIFIED

Tie have instructed iani do prompt dervior Luis and Merta

Balbuena concerning activities of subject organization

whether it has any foreign connection or principal

to see mere. it

fits into the over-all anti-Castro picture.

Miami has been instructed/at

the same time to obtain any information Luis Balbuena may have

concerning activities of L-66 as well as any current information he

gas concerning Haitian activities

REC. %

105 = 19764 24

ECTION:

EX-116

This

CONFISENTIAB 10 1968

1S

Appour information

RDC : đnd

(15)

51963

1 - 105-117222 (1-66):

Condos made

- 105-95677 (Haitian

1 = 105-256921 Rescate)

Revolutionary Activities)

1 - Mr. Wagoner

CLASS. & EXT

UNRECORDED COPY FILED

REASON-FCIM II,

DATE OF RAUTIN

4+5-85

#SCA Request 1/30/08

NW 53025 DooId: 32304084

Page 2

---

