# docid-32305796

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote]:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/20/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10288-10426

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-2417

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, BU

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/01/1968

' PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

LCN, STOLEN, NEGOTIABLE SECURITIES, BURGLARIES,

MILLIONAIRES HOMES, CRIMINAL ACT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32305796

Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: Í1-14-2017

FBI WASH DC

FEDERAL CUREAU-OF INVESTICE ON

J. S. DEPASTIMENT OF JUSTIG

COMMUNICATION SECTION

2. 1969

TELETYPE

Suite

Mcin..

Bishop

Me: Casper.

Cadichan

Conrad

Mir.

Felt

NG.

FBI-BUFFALO

4:46

URGENT 3/1/68 DJL

TO DIRECTOR

FROM BUFFALO (92-337). 3P

Mr.

Level

Trotter.

Кa0z..

LA COSA NOSTRA, BUFFALO DIVISION, AR

Refere FALO TELLyLY THIRTYONE LAST, RELATIVE TO FBI

RECOVERY OF THREE MILLION DOLLARS IN NEGOTIABLE SECURITIES

RECENTLY STOLEN FROM WEALTHY ROCHESTER, NEW YORK, INDUSTRIALIST

DAVID M. SIRASENBURGH. EXTENSIVE FAVORABLE PUBLICITY HAS

RESULTED FROM DARING ACTION OF FBI SCUBA DIVER IN RECOVERY

OF LOOT FROM TREACHEROUS WATERS OF LAKE ONTARIO. NEWS

STORIES HAVE HIGHLIGHTED FBI DRAMATIC ACTION AS A GREAT

ACCOMPLISHMENI IN DRIVE AGAINST ORGANIZED CRIME ELEMENTS

IN WESTERN NEW YORK. NEWS STORIES HAVE AITRIBUTED WAVE OF

RECENT MAJOR BURGLARIES OF MILLIONAIRES HOMES IN ROCHESTER

AREA 10 SMOOIHE WORKING LA COSA NOSTRA THIEVES WHO HAVE

ACCUMULATED MILLIONS IN LOOT.

FBI MEG FIMILLION DOLLAR

92-6054-7÷11

RECOVERY CONTRASIED BY NEWS OUTLETS TO APPARENT INACTION

OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES WHO HAVE BEEN COMPLETELY STYMIED IN

20 SEP 16. 1968

JƯN g

fr096

BREAK UP THIS ORGANIZED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.

END PAGE ON

DocId: 32305796

Page 2

---

## Page 3

meleased

inder

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE THREE

AS BUREAU IS AWARE, THIS MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR RECOVERY

LA COSA CASTRA

FEELSTED FROM INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY ONE OF BUFFALO OF E

LCN MEMBER

INFORMANIS,

THREE THREE TWO DASH C DASH TE.

THIS INFORMANT ONE OF FEW WHO KNEW LOCATION OF LOOT AND

UNDERTOOK GREAT PERSONAL RISK

IN ASSISTING OUR OFFICE. HE

The

WILL BE SUSPECTED BY GANG BUT HAS FBI FURNISHED AND ASSISTED

COVER STORY AND IS CONFIDENT HE WILL BE SAFE FROM REPRISAL,

HOWEVER, FACT REMAINS HIS VERY LIFE AI STAKE HERE. THIS

INFORMANT OF, TREMENDOUS VALUE TO BUREAU AS PROVEN BY THIS

RECOVERY OF THREE MILLION DOLLARS OF STOLEN LOOT. I RECOM-

MEND BUREAU APPROVE LUMP SUM PAYMENT OF ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS

Top Chelm

TO GITHREE THREE IWO DASH O DASH IE FOR HIS ASSISTANCE IN

THIS MATTER. IT MUST BE OBSERVED THAT THE STRASENBURGH CASE

Tutoriate TranspoRtAtioN ef steled Property

WAS UNDER INTENSIVE INVESTIGATION BY

FBI AS ITSP MAJOR THEFT

AND COUNTLESS MAN HOURS OF FBI WORK AND EXPENSE HAVE BEEN

SAVED BY THIS INFORMANT'S INFORMATION. UNDER ALL CIRCUM-

STANCES I FEEL ONE THOUSAND DOLLAR AMOUNI COMPLETELY JUSTIFIED.

BUREAU RESPECIFULLY REQUEST TO SUTEL DECISION IN THIS MATTER.

END

JTM

FBI WASH DC

CC: MR, GALE

DocId: 32305796

Page 3

---

