# docid-32335504

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10062

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-95677-1540

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AT

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/06/1972

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

HAITIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL III

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335501

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017 •

AT 105-4259

LEADS:

MIAMI DIVISION

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA:

If any sources

utilized in the ROJAS LHM have not

been contacted

concerning a possible Haitian invasion plan,

contact these sources or set out appropriate leads to have

them contacted.

NEW YORK DIVISION

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK:

Contact CBS to determine current location and

occupation of ANDREW ST. GEORGE and set out leads to appro-

priate offices to determine his activities and determine the

possibility of an interview.

It is noted that ANDREW ST.

GEORGE was a source of information for Miami in the 1966 -

1967 ROJAS invasion plan.

ATLANTA DIVISION

AT RUTLEDGE, GEORGIA:

. Through appropriate sources determine the extent

of the complaints concerning the automatic weapons fire on the

JOHN DOUGLAS farm.

Through appropriate sources determine the

activities" of DEWITY HENRY WANVANAKER, No vement ant plan to

of Police, Rutledge, Georgia, and his

invade Haiti.

3

DocId: 32335504 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USe 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

AT 105-4259

i, ".

Re Atlanta letter and LHM to the Bureau and other offices,

dated April 6, 1972.

NONS YMBOL SOURCE ADMINISTRATIVE

The knowledgeable source and liaison

are iden

tified as

EARL EDWIN AUSTIN, Savannah's Confidential Source.

THIS COPY NOT TO BE SENT

OUTSIDE HEADQUARTERS CITY

DocId: 32335504

Page 3

---

