# docid-32287063

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10196-10339

RECORD SERIES :

HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/16/1962

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

THP, MISUR, POLIT, ACT, SGI, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

" DocId: 32287063

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE (F1-14-2059

FBI

Date:

11/16/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

51

AIRTEL

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB U)

ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

CHICAGO DIVISION

"JUNE"

DAILY SUMMARY

CG 6576-C* furnished the following furtber

Indormation on 11/13/62 concernine activities within the fi

offices of the First Ward Democratic organization. A

lengthy conversation took place between

JOSEPT PORCAR

Republican Ward Committeeman of the 28th Ward,

who, according

to CG 6498-PC, is SAM GIANCANA and TONY ACCARDO's man.

PORCARO recently was defeated for an elected position in

Norwood Heights, a western Chicago suburb, and since his

defeat has reactivated himself in Chicago politics. PORCARO's

conversation with MARCI is as follows:

PORCARO:

This guy OGILVIE wants to be the candidate

next time for Governor.

MARCI:

I think so.

PORCARO:

MARCI:

PORCARO:

MARCI:

09

# Wick

Oh, positive.

I think he's the guy who is gonna screw up

ADAMOWSKI.

I think this (obs) OGILVIE will

fight ADAMOWSKI right down to the wire. He's

gonna be a bitch.

He's a cocky (obs), that OGILVIE.

OGILVIE is gonna have a tough time with SPENCER

though.

SPENCER will

be out to knock his

block off.

Yeah, that

(obs) will do everything, 11

in his power to become Governor. 0.2

EX-118

REG- 21

Masah

- Bureau (RV)

Chicago

MER: rmh

• (4)

Approved:

NOV 30 Special Agent in

Charge

192 NOV

196

: Sent

DocId: 32287063 Page 2

---

