# docid-32289296

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/7/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10201-10072

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3182-223

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/26/1961

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

GAL, SURVEILLANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

V9.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32289296

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*FD-36 (Re.v., 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

12-6-95

dabloit

FBI

Date: 5/26/61

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Custams

REVIEWED BY FONJFK TASK FORCE

ON

9-11-95 DAb/T•H

RELEASE IN FULL

I RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

let to legal, Romme

RELEASE IN FULL

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

FROM: SAC, CHICAGO (92-373)

PART

GUS A

ALEX, Aka.

RELEASE IN

DAILY SUMMARY

Remyairtel dated 5/25/61.

Regarding ALEX's recent trip to Europe a check

0f the U.S. Customs Office, Detroit, Michigan, disclosed

that information received from copy of U.S. Customs

Baggage Declaration and Entry 5/9/61, for GUS ALEX

indicated that he arrived at Customs Office, Detroit,

on 5/9/61.

He arrived aboard BOAC flight #BA563, C-APFM.

No search

of his person

was made by

customs inspector,

J.T. MORGAN, who did not recall ALEX. No information

regarding his itinerary

was received. ALEX indicated on

his Baggage Declaration that he left the U.S. on 4/5/61

and returned on 5/9/61.

Inspector CHRIS PATSURIS, Athens City Police

Department on 5/1/61 advised that GUS ALEX, a U.S. citizen,

arrived in Athens, Greece on 4/4/61 by BEA

Airlines from

Milan, Italy.

ALEX was in possession of U.S. passport

#1569555 issued 5/13/52,

at Chicago, Illinois. (It to

be noted that a check of the Passport Agency of the

Department offState at Chicago, Illinois,

indicated that

ALEX was issued passport application number 1569555 on

5/13/59). His date of birth was listed as 4/1/16 and his

occupation as a Public Relations Expert.

His U.S. address

was. listed as 9353 South Spaulding Avenue, Evergreen Park,

Illinois and his address in Athens as Athens Palace Hotel.

REG 9

Bureau' (RM)

Chicago®

JU!

92-3182-225

5 MAY 2g +96

RAC: hjz

(4)

soones amen . sale

Special Agent in Charge

M

Per

NH 45679

DocTd: 32289296

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

ALEX departed Athens, Greece by BEA Airlines on

4/13/61 and returned to Athens on 4/16/61 from Rome, Italy.

Investigation conducted at 29K Cotta Street

New Phyhiko, Athens, Greece, indicated that one CONSTANTINE

CONTOS, also known as GUS CONTOS resided at that address.

This individual was identified as

a Greek from the U.S.,

age about 60 and is known to be a gambler and a big spender.

Additional investigation concerning both ALEX

and CONSTANTINE CONTOS is being conducted in Greece.

Investigation also being conducted at BOAC Airlines in

efforts to determine complete itinerary of subject while

in Europe.

Concerning any background information on GUS

CONTOS Or CONSTANTINE CONTOS as requested of Bureau and

Chicago by Legat Rome, Chicago indices disclosed that a

person by the name of

GUS CONTOS, same address as above,

has been in recent contact with GUS ALEX by mail. Other

then this reference Chicago indices disclosed that an

anonymous source advised on 5/22/45 that CP registration

card #56984 was listed to one GUST CONTOS, address,

out of town (Arizona), name of club, Greek and date card

issued 1/46.

The only identifying data regarding GUST

CONTOS was that he was described as white male, occupation

unemployed.

It is not known to this office from above

reference whether GUST CONTOS is identical with GUS CONTOS

of 29K Cotta Street, Athens, Greece.

PCI FRANK LA CROIX, Manager of apartment buildings

at 1550 Lake Shore Drive and

1150 Lake Shore Drive at about 5/9/61 he has been seen

almost daily entering and leaving the building. He stated

ALEX requested maid service on 5/13 and 5/20/61. As

requested, PCI stated that he will attempt to assign a

specific maid to ALEX's apartment whom he knows is reliable

and trustworthy and can be approached by an agent of the FBI.

This PCI stated that ALEX is careful in that either he or

someone else is in the apartment at all times when the maid

is there.

In this regard, CG 6450-C* advised that he overheard

ALEX tell NATHAN "Butch" LADON, chauffeur of ALEX, shortly

-2.

1 92-3182-223

NW 45679 DooId: 32289296 Page 3

---

