# docid-32307909

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10293-10267

HQ

92-6054-2124

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, LA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 09/08/1967

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, LA, VOTE, BOSS, WHEREABOUTS, POLIZZI,

ANGELO, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1.

DocId: 32307909

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hoter:

!

V

VIA I-LETYPE

SEP'S 1967

ENCIPHERED

WASHDO e

DEFERRED-

3-58 PM 9-8-67

DIRECTOR AND PHOENIX

FROM LOS ANGELES (92-1112)

RGD

Mr. Tolson-

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop..

Mr.

Casper.

Mr. Callahan.

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes..

Miss Gandy--

2P

4

LA COSA NOSTRA. AR - CONSPIRACY.

RE PX RADIOGRAM IO BUREAU SEPTEMBER SIX, ONE NINE SIX SEVEN.

LA FOUR FOUR FOUR EIGHT C TE ADVISED ON NIGHT OF

SEPTEMBER SEVEN LAST THAT HE WAS IN CONTACI WITH LOS ANGELES

LON "MEMBERS" JOSEPH GIAMMONA AND DOMINICK TRIPOLI ON

SEPTEMBER SEVEN LASI. NEITHER GIAMMONA, TRIPOLI OR INFORMANT

HAVE YET BEEN CONTACTED RELATIVE TO SELECTION OF NEW LEADERSHIP

OF LOS ANGELES LON "FAMILY" AND ARE NOT PRESENTLY AWARE OF

ANY PLANS FOR VOTING BY SEPTEMBER FIFTEEN NEXT FOR NEW

"BOSS" OF LOS ANGELES LON "FAMILY."

IN ADDITION, PRESENT WHEREABOUTS OF LOS ANGELES

LON "CAPO" ANGELO POLIZZI AND HIS FAMILY ARE UNKNOWN TO

GIAMMONA, TRIPOLI OR LA FOUR FOUR FOUR EIGHT C TE. BELIEVED

END PAGE ONE

#66892-6054-2124

14 SEP 18 1967.

66 SEP 22 1967

DocId: 32307909 Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

CRAGE

TWO

• LA (92-1112)

BY THÉSE INDIVIDUALS THAT POLIZZI IS PRESENTLY ON VACATION

WITH

FAMILY AWAY FROM LOS ANGELES. GIAMMONA, TRIPOLI AND

LA FOUR FOUR FOUR EIGHT C TE STATE NO SELECTION OF NEW LOS

SANGELES "B0S5" WILL BE MADE UNTIL POLIZZI'S RETURN.

THIS MATTER BEING CLOSELY FOLLOWED BY LOS

ANGELES AND BUREAU WILL BE PROMPTLY ADVISED OF ANY INFORMATION

-DEVELOPED RELATIVE TO THIS MATTER.

PHOENIX REQUESTED TO ADVISE OF ANY FURTHER

"SPECIFICS RELATIVE TO POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO LOS ANGELES OF

CHARLES BATTAGLIA AND JOSEPH SPINELLI.

END

DGJIRN. 13;65489&88

RAK FBI WASH DC

150099

DocId: 32307909 Page 3

---

