# docid-32334437

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90116-10143

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1956-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

11/20/1964

' PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

THE MINUTEMAN CLUB

MINUTEMEN CLUB

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

" NW 45880

DocId:32334437 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Transmit the following in

Via _AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE 3

FBI

Date: 11/20/64

(Type in plain text or code).

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, SAN ANTONIO (105 -nEW) (P)

THE

MINUTEMAN CLUB

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS™

INFORMATION CONCERNING

IS

105-12.20

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 2 Electrostat

copies of a letter addressed to WILLIAM H. PRICE from CLAY

KRUCKEMEYER dated 11/17/64 at San Antonio, Texas, from The

Minuteman Club naming him a charter member of the San Antonio

Branch.

Also enclosed

are 2 Electrostats each of his statement

as to his annual dues, a blank application for membership,

and the calling card of DENNIS BURKHOLDER, which identifies

him as an insurance salesman with the National Guardian

Benefit Life Insurance Company.

One copy of each of the

above are being enclosed for the Kansas City office 31-ll her 3l

In November 19, 1961

Attorney

3/- LOTHER

4

with offices in Room 212, Milan Building, San Antonio

telephonically called the San Antonio Division regardin Fexas,

meeting of retired U. S. Marine Corps officers held in

San Antonio, Novembem PM, 1964. At this meeting he stated

3-Bureau (Enc.

2-Dallas (AM RM)

2-nansas City (Enc. 30) 6AM RM)

6=San Antonio

new

(2-105-new)

(1-105-2356)

(1-157-310)

(1-137=new)

(1-157=332)

Juc/anb

(13)

w.o.Prici

105-1956-11

10512-80-152

SEARCHED

W. INDEXED

SERIALIZEP

AA. FILED.

NOV 2 2 196

FBI - DALLAS

Handle Daress leads pe

Per -

assign

1.818

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

1 geno Copy nad 273/14-287

NW 45880 DocId: 32334437 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SA 105-new

VACB, or information

is developed reflecting

vill be opened person i

no can de trusted, a new tol case

with the thought of developing

him as a possible informant in connection with The Minuteman

club in san Antonio, should they be affiliated with the

Minutemen organization'

The San Antonio Division is opening up a separate

fade on the Minuteman Club, San Antonio, Texas,

since it has

not been definitely established that it is affiliated with

the Minutemen organization.

LEADS

OTHER

. 4

KANSAS CITY

AT KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI:

I Will, through available sources, endeavor to establish

if The Minuteman Club is identical with "Minutemen".

2. Will also check the names of FLORA, HARRIS, KRUCKEMEYER,

BURKHOLDER, AND PRICE to see if any of them are known to be

affiliated with the "Minutemen."

DALLAS

mentionina

AT WICHITA FALLS, TEXAS:

Will check credit and criminal records at Wichita Falls

and at Midwestern University for background information on

WILLIAM H, PRICE.

AT DALLAS, TEXAS:

Will check credit and criminal records at Dallas

on WILLIAM H. PRICE: Will, if feasible, check records of USMC

Reserve in Dallas for background information on PRICE and confirm:

his attendance at USMCR meetings in Dallas.

= 8∞

NW 45880 DocId: 32334437 Page 3

---

