# docid-32306330

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10289-10460

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-115227-239

Released under the John

F. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-03-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/09/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

19.1

H# 54460

11

DooId: 32306330

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SOTO-MAL FORM'NO. 10"

UNITED STATES G

Memoranaum

NT

SECRET

TO

DATE:

Director,

FBI (109-12-210)

October 9, 1962

FROM

SAC, Miami (105-3902)(P)

SUBJECT:

ALL INFORIAT

I CONTATHED

HEREIN IS UNCT SITED EXCEPT

WHORE EROWN OTHERWISE.

THE CUBAN SITUATION

•CUBAN CRISIS

ReBulet to Miami 9/20/62.

1995

Classified

Declassify on: OADR/

JFK

Озб

There is set forth below information in the same

order as the paragraphs numbered one through six in refer-

enced letter.

3

32

33

34

35

In addition, there is Included as item seven, an

analysis of the Cuban situation and a suggested solution.

This office previously has submitted information

in instant case which the Bureau may desire to review rela-

tive to the current situation. Particular reference is made

to Miami airtel to the Bureau dated June 8, 1961, which con-

sists of an analysis of the Cuban situation, examination of

some suggested solutions and a recommended solution.

Reference is also made to Miami airtel dated June

5, 1961 and Miami letter dated June 26, 1961, which contain

a series of suggestions for solution of the Cuban situation

"submitted by a cross section of individuals, mostly Cuban

ovexiles, who were interested in ridding Cuba of the communi

regime of Fidel Castro.

EX-103,

Merno

Bureau (AM) (RM)

REC- 91

: 2

- Miami

Copy to (lux AC

105-115227-239

by routing slip for

GED: egh

Ly info

(4)

action

date 10/0/62

3 Bát 1/0 2962

2

_copies made 1, 34

10/11/771 Doc/ma

124 ..

for review at FBIHQ by

HSCA re req 9/21|77

see Bufile 62-117270

67 NOV 8

19621

чака зва

ey ADC-II requent

1/24/ SECRET

/ NA

A SEC.

NW 54460 DooId: 32306330

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Re: The Cuban Situation

Ernesto "Che" Guevara, Carlos Rodriguez, Communist economic

czar;

and other Coumnist leaders, would simplify the over-

throw of the castro regime by whatever means might be

adopted.

H. MM-635-$

He is a former Cuban police officer under the

Prio regime

, and served in the revolutionary police for

about two uears, under the Castro regime, before defecting

and escaping from Cuba by boat.

He is personally acquainted

with Fidel Castro. He has been involved in revolutionary

activities in the United States at various intervals since

about 1953.

He has made the following suggestions:

"I." Creation of a new Cuban Government In Exile,

with Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz as Chief. He pointed out that

Diaz Lang,

, former Chief of the Revolutionary Air Force

under Castro, was the first Cuban of any importance to

denounce Castro as a Commnist and defect to the United

States.

He said that Diaz Lane is better known to more

Cubans Inside Cuba, particularly as an anti-Commnist

leader. MM-635"S also pointed out that Diaz Lanz made the

first anti Comnist leaflet dropping raid over Cuba, which

incident further enhanced his reputation with the anti-

Communists on that island.

"2.

Creation of an Army of Liberation under the

leadership of the Cuban Government in Exile.

3. Organization of a sabotage program to be

carried out by bombing raids

on key targets from places

outside Cuba." The principal targets would be the water-

works of the principal cities, such as Havana, oil refin-

eries, and electrical plants.

"MM"635"S stated that the

security measures of the Castro regime make sabotage from

within extremely difficult.

• 19 .

NW 54460 DooId: 32306330 Page 3

---

## Page 4

niC

Re: The Cuban Situation

Pedro

120 Southwest

Miami,

on Florida

evenue

He is the former Chief of the Cuban Revolutionary

Air Force under Castro, but was the first high official of

the Castro government to defect after denouncing Castro as

o got cant to de eat

a communist. He came to the United States in 1950 and partici-

pated in the first leaflet dropping raid against Cuba.

He subsequently has been active in various forays

against Cuba. He has become somewhat frustrated and dis

gruntled with the attitude of the United States Government

toward the Castro regime, but it 18 believed he could be re-

Lied

upon in any serious effort against Cuba under FBI super-

vision or control.

It 18 recommended he be given assignments involv-

Ing either air attacks, leaflet dropping missions or commando

type raids.

Bernardo Martiner Niebla

"PSI under development)

BURN APPROX-122

He Is single, about 35 years of age and ardently

anti-communist. He has offered to enter Cuba clandestinely

on missions for the FBI.

It has been verified that he previously worked

Inside Cuba under direction of the Movimiento Revolucionario

Recuperacion (MRR)

It Is recommended Martinez be given assignments

Involving clandestine entry into Cuba for the purpose of

organizing underground sabotage

operations against Castro.

- 34-

NW 54460 DooId: 32306330 Page 4

---

