# docid-32404162

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10331-10032

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJFILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : JOHN F. PEREIRA. C/HRG

TO : DCI/IRO

TITLE

: MEMO: FOIA REQUEST F93-2003

DATE :

01/13/1.994

PAGES :

6

SUBJECTS : FOIA REQUEST

JEK ASSASSINATION

ZAID MARK'S

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

CaseR:HM 53217 Date:

16-22-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS UNCLASSIFIED

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

..

04/30/03

COMMENTS

JFK-M-16: F3: 2000.02.08.08: 49:01: 640035

[R] - ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10331-10032

NN 53217 DooId:32404162

Page 1

---

## Page 2

:

13 January 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DCI / IRO

CSI/ FOIA Referent

John F. Pereira

Chief, Historical Review Group

FOIA Request F93-2003

"to" "The

Kennedy Assassination

of 1992." Also requested are "agency interpretations of the

Act and any instructions given to agency employees on

implementation of the Act."

2.

As far as HRG is concerned, we are processing

relevant Agency records under the Act for release to the

National Archives.

More than 125,000 pages have already

been released to the Archives, where they are available to

the public.

We are applying the JFK Assassinations Records

Act in determining what information is to be released.

Section 6 of the Act provides the standards for our

recommendations as to what information should be withheld.

3.

Beyond the Act, there is no formal HRG file of

instructions on implementing the Assassinations Records Act.

Guidance is generally given orally to HRG officers.

addition, we use informal, internal notes to indicate that

certain names or other specific information may

or may not

be released.

she Percin

John F. Pereira

we, d... .

14 53217

DocId: 32404162 / Page 2

---

## Page 3

SUBJECT:

FOIA Request F93-2003

DCI / CSI/HRG/JFPereira:hfs/x30335

Distribution:

original

Addressee

1

Adair A.

1

Barry H.

1

-HRG File (3.3)

(13 Jan 94)

- 0-39999

--322.5.1

S6ss 3x

33217

DocId: 32404162

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PRIORITY HANDLING

SUBJECT: (Oprianol)

FOIA REQUEST

FEQLEST NUMBER

F93-2003

.. -

ZAID, MARK

INFO RE: JFK ASSASSINATION RECORD COLLECTION

FROM: ROBERT MAHLKE 2083, 30559

EXTENSION

DATE SENT

CAECI CANADA

2766, 30563

IP&CRD/ ISG/OIT

SUSPENSE DATE

TO: (Officer designaron, room number, and

DATE

buitding)

17 NOVEMBER 1993

HAZIVED

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number eoch comment lo show trom

whom

to whom. Drow a line across column offer soch comment.)

DDO/ESG/ALB

GA43 OHB

2.

3.

DCI /IRO

6E2914 HQS

FUTA

CSI/HRG

29Nov3Jan94

93

10/14

5.

6.

Cline

(016094/-1.44

7.

(SI/FIA REFERENT

8.

I CI/I20

9.

10.

11.

112.

RETURN TO:

IP&CRD/ISG/OIT 1107 AMES BLDG.

PLEASE PROCESS THE ATTACHED

FOIA REQUEST

-SEARCH CUT-OER DAT 2000193

FEES:

NOTE FOR DCI/IRO:

SUGGEST TASKING OGC AND HRG

AS AGENCY'S. PRINCIPLE

IMPLEMENTORS OF THE

JFK RECORD ACT.

3 to 4: Your response

with recommendations, please

ACTION: - DDO, DCI

PRIORITY HANDLING FOIA REQUEST

FORM 3749

1.79

NW 53217 DocId:32404162 Page 4

---

## Page 5

8 0 OCT 1993

Mark S. Zaid, Esquire

1600 South Eads Street

Suite 118-S

Arlington, Virginia 22202

Reference: F93-2003

Dear. MI. Zaid:

This. Is to acknowledge receipt of your»q October 1993

3244647-55444

Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request for "all records

pertaining to 'The President John F. «Kennedy AssassinatiOn m

Records"Collection Act of 1992 codifled at 44 U.S.C.9 2107.

This would include records in which the name is captioned in

the title or merely appears within the text of the document.

Specific records sought include agency interpretations of the

Act and

any instructions given to agency employees on

implementation of the Act."

We can

search for information responsive to your request.

With respect to your request for a fee waiver, we have reviewed

your request and have determined that the information you seek

from Agency files would contribute significantly to the public

understanding of the operations and activities. of the United

States Government.

Therefore, your request for a fee waiver

has been granted.

Accordingly, we have accepted your request which will be

processed in accordance with the FOIA, 5 U.S.C. §

552, as

amended,

and the CIA Information Act, 50 U.S.C. § 431.

Our

search will be for documents in existence as of and through the

date of this acceptance letter.

The heavy volume of FOIA

reguests received by the Agency

has created delays in processing.

Since we cannot respond

vithin the l0 working days stipulated by the Act, you have the

right to consider this as a denial and may appeal to the cIA

Information Review Committee.

It would seem more reasonable,

however, to have us continue processing your request and respond

as soon as we can.

You can appeal any denial of records at that

time.

Unless we hear from you otherwise, we will assume that

You

agree, and we will proceed on this basis.

NW 53217 DocId:32404162 Page 5

---

## Page 6

OIT/ISG/IP&CRD/RPM/faj/140CT93

Distribution:

Orig - Adse

1 - Chrono

1IP&CRD/F93-2003

ACK; Ready for processing

ID# 32322

RAOABtA..cin

ue demtas er maioen

tsisszas@insta4050@i..

Aslaphoi rsueres

tetmroin rehdartäzelta

—r"..

ftititu riisci-pobsst sin

www.pxrameussbaneoatedsasaeno/emmcgewaetws

..ges.o.sesstr.stalaerstrefi.*

ww@A.MT@ON@S@StRRnnscesnoQue.cmnuekcpma/.mree.uzns,

se snedRa easstie

Hetsonr

HH 53217

DocId: 32404162

Page 6

---

## Page 7

MARK S. ZAID

Attorney-At-Law

160 0 , 12 05,3201188

(202) 296-8051 fax

Cor 7 1 30 Fil '93

Freedom of Information Act Request

October 4, 1993

John H. Wright

IPD Coordinator

IPD Registry

Washington,

Washington, Deo. 205ency

F93-2003

Dear Mr. Wright:

RPH/CC

Under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §552, I am requesting access to or

copies of:

OPEN SO MANY

CLOSED

RETIRED

SUBJECT

NR

Records Collection Act of 1992"

a) all records pertaining to "The President John F. Kennedy Assassination

, coditied at 44 U.S.C. § 2107. This would include

records in which the name is captioned in the title or merely appears within the text of

the document. Specific records sought include agency interpretations of the Act and

any instructions given to agency employees on implementation of the Act.

Furthermore, your search should include, but not be limited to, the indices of the

Directorate of Administration (including the Office of Security), the Directorate of

Operations and the Directorate of Intelligence.

If there are any fees for copying or searching for this information, please supply the

records without informing me of the costs it the fees do not exceed $50. However, under

5 U.S.C. § 552 (a)(4)(A) | hereby request a waiver of all fees associated with this

request.

I submit that "disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to

contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the

groups.' Ettlinger v. FBI, 596 F.Supp. 867, 872 (D.Mass. 1984).

It you deny all or part of this request, please cite the specitic exemption you thinl

ustifies your refusal to release the information and notity me oi appeal procedure:

available under the law. In excising material, please "black out the material rather thar

"white out" or "cut out". Furthermore, as required by law, please attempt to respond

within 10 working days.

I look forward to your response.

mild gil

HH 53217

DooId: 32404162

Page 7

---

