# docid-32125851

## Page 1

8/29/2014

JFK Full Results

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

'• kenned

issassination Record

Collection det of 1993

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53025 Date:

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

: 124-10027-10188

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-3477

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : GEMBERLING, ROBERT

P.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

: [No Titlel

DATE

: 07/16/1964

PAGES

: 303

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JFK, SUSPECTS, UNKNOWN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

: 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/01/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

ww be nance beside 1372 deembe

1/1

---

## Page 2

÷ FD•2889Rey: I-58)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

HIG OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY,

DATE

7/16/64

REPORT MADE BY

ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/22/63-7/11/64

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS, TEXAS

ALL HFORMATION CANTAINSICERNING

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

REFERENCES:

1016:81

5/15/64, and 6/19/64, at Dallas.

-P-

TYPED BY

ds

DL

ENCLOSURES: TO THE BUREAU:

Enclosed herewith and attached to appropriate copies

of

ithis report for the Bureau are three photographs of Exhibits

D-204, D-217, D-219, D-222, D-223, D-224, D-228, and ten Electro-

static copies each of two obscene letters referred to on pages 232

and

233 of instant report.

Two coplas of each of these exhibits are listed as

enclosures for the President's Commission in the body of this re-

port with those copies being attached to the copies of the report

that are designated as President's Commission copies.

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

N CHARGI

CORNER MADE:

10/

- Bureau (62-109060)

1

(Enc. 41) (RM)62

New Orleans (89-69) (Info.)

(Enc. 2)

1

_

San Antonio (89-67) (Info.)

(Enc. 2)•

- Dallas

189-43).-

uu- 2ö 857

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

104060

34711

REE- 24

OGEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

REQUEST RECD

DATE FIL. -

•JOW FWD..

BY...

DED CARY FITIM

RECH 24

NW 53025 DooId:32125851 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 89-43

Page Numbers

181

181

182

Identity of Source

Detective WILLIAM HAYES, Security Unit,

Chicago Police Department, Chicago,

Illinois

(Information concerning the application

bY GERALD JAMES SHORTALI_ to the

American Nazi Party LANP)

CG 6650-C (RAC)

(Information concerning SHORTALL'S

attendance at ANP meetings)

JOHN R. SIMPSON, Postmaster, Park Ridge:

Illinois (request)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

In connection with this report, it should be borne: in

mind that the Dallas Office has a separate case in connection

with the shooting of LEE HARVEY OSWALD captioned "JACK L. RUBY.

aka.; LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka. (Deceased) - VICTIM; CIVIL RIGHTS

Dallas file 44-1639, Bureau file 44-24016.

It is also pointed out that the Dallas Office has a

separate case captioned "LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka:; INTERNAL

SECURITY - RUSSIA - CUBA," Dallas file 100-10461, Bureau file

105-82555.

Numerous communications have been received bearing.

the assassination caption (instant case) which contain infor-

mation concerning OSWALD and/or his connection with the assassi

nation, and such communications are being filed and reported in

the case bearing the OSWALD caption. For the most part, miscel-

laneous allegations bearing on the assassination are reported in

instant case and all others in the LEE HARVEY OSWALD case. All

COVER PAGE

HH 53025 DooId:32125851 Page 3

---

