# docid-32321757

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 HoteT:

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10377-10415

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

_ AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62C-HQ-1029205-3634

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HQ

TO: NY

TITLE:

DATE: 02/12/1998

• PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32321757

300 .

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

306

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE 02/28/1998

To: New York

Date: 02/12/1998

Attn:

Eileen Rawlinson

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm. 11144

Contact: Pauline E. Battle, Ext. 0664

Approved By: Keeley Carol Elms

Drafted By: Battle Pauline E

Case ID #:

62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection Act

of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the government's production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act will allow or opens the document in full.

The ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1998.

With this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material.

62+-+19-1029205-363

Details: On March 19, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

records. The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

the intentions of the Act.

New York should conduct a search for the listed items.

If New

York is

aware of any administrative records they may have

maintained outside the normal index system, they should include

those areas in the search.

If any documents related to the

matters are found, please forward the documents to the JFK Task

Force.

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized

as an

assassination record must be' sent to the NARA in its original

form.

and

The Act established the process of handling the documents

the FBI must follow the Act. If New York believes there

DocId: 32321757 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

New York

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 02/12/1998

office needs a copy, they should copy the documents or material

before sending to the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for any files and references

for "Funds Transmitted to Residents of Russia" and "Russian Funds"

years 1959 through 1964 and please forward all material

the JFK Task Force, Attention: Pauline E. Battle, Room 11144.

If you have any questions, please call Pauline Battle

at (202) 324-0664.

2

DocId: 32321757

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

New York

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

62-HQ-1029205, 02/12/1998

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

TO NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK

Conduct a search of your office for any files and

references for "Funds Transmitted to Residents of Russia" and

"Russian

Funds" for the years 1959 thru 1964. Forward any

naterial related to this request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force,

Attention: Pauline E. Battle, room 11144. The results should be

received at FBIHQ no later than c.o.B. 02/28/98.

AcC: 1 - Carol L. Keeley,

Room

11144

LuAnn Wilkins, Room 11144

- Pauline E. Battle,

Room 11144

DocId: 32321757

Page 4

---

