# docid-32160122

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10137-10040

RECORD SERIES: DI

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-1716-15

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorda

Collection Aet of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MCAVOY. GLENN L.

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/24/1956

PAGES: 16

SUBJECT: RHP, BKG, REL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

11/07/1996

STATUS Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

53025

DocId: 32160122

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FQ-263

(5912-551.

CONSBENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting 0ff1co

CINCINNATI, OHIO

office of Origin

BUREAU

TITLE OF CASE

SYLVIA LUDLOW HYDE HOKE, nee Hyde

Aka, Mrs. Sylvia Hoke, Mrs. John I.

‹ Hoke

Personnel Research Technician

Placement and Employee Relations

Division,

Director

of Civilian Personnel,

Headquarters, Department of the

Kroexer

Air Force,

Washington, D. C.

SYNOPSIS:

Date

Inte

9/24/56

Period

8/31;9/11-13,17-19,21/56

Report

nade by

GLENN L. MCAVOY

Typod By:

JAM

CHARACTER OF CASE

SECURITY OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES

"NO""

Enco '00

REVERSE

SIDE FOR

NATION.

ADD. Dist.

Basis: Report in 1952 that Mrs. WILLIAM A. HYDE,

mother,

employee's

had admitted to neighbors that she was a Communist.

Original source of this report contacted and advised this was

rumor and she was unable to furnish basis for rumor.

Brother

of this source advised she is in poor health, forgetful, tick

sufferane from mental dia dr moloress 2945, 1946, 1947.

verilied., Short term employments,

and 1948 not verified, there being no available records.

Professors and neighbors acquainted with employee consider her

of good character, reputation, associates and loyalty.

Several

neighbors of employee's parents advised of rumor that Mrs. HYDE,

employee's mother,

was a Communist but none knew basis for rumor

and knew of no information other than this rumor reflecting or

character, reputation, associates or loyalty of employee's

parents.

• Several neighbors volunteered employee's parents

entertained persons of different races in their home. No credit

0x 12/13/23

VER

Bureau

(AMSD - RM

Washington

Field

- Cincinnati

16.51316-15

Hit,

Proporty of FBI.

Ede agoney

1N 53025 D0010:32160122

1a loanad to you

Page 2

"IMI

---

## Page 3

CI 140-843

: Investigation at Xenia, Yellow Springs, and Dayton,

Ohio, was conducted by SA EUGENE I. TUGGEl, JR.

In an attempt to develop further information from

the files

of newspapers in the surrounding area,

the following

newspaper libraries were contacted by SA TUGGEY with negative

results on 9/11, 12/56:

JIM JATTEN; City Editor, "Xenia Gazette,"Xenia, Ohio;

Mrs. MARY MORTON

, Librarian, "Journal Herald", Dayton, Ohio;

MrS. JANE MCCARTHY, Librarian, "Dayton Daily News", Dayton.

Careful consideration has been given to each source con-

INFORMANTS:

i-l is former CI-191-s and the information attributed

to her was furnished SA FRANCIS E. MURPHY on 12/27/54 in written

report form dated 12/21/54.

The original report is located in

CI file 134-45A-1A-46. I-l was recontacted by SA RICHARD E

LALLY on 9/18/56.

T-2 is CI-108-S.

T-3 is CI-138-S:

T-2 and T-3

used to document Columbus, Ohio Chapter of

Women?'s International

League for Peace and Freedom

T-4 is EMMA L• CASH, under development as PSI

Confidential Informants contacted at Dayton, Ohio,

and furnishing negative information are as follows:

CI-262-S, contacted 9/11/56 by SA HENRY F• TOMPKINS,

CI-276-S;

contacted: 9/11/56 by SA HENRY E.

JR.

TOMPKINS,

JR.

CI-277-S;

contacted 9/11/56 by SA HENRY F

TOMPKINS,

JR

Security informants contacted at Columbus,

regarding

this investigation were:

CI-106-S,CI-108-S

were contacted by SA GLENN L.. MCAVOY on 9/13/56.

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

-13:-

HH. 53025 DocId: 32160122

Page

---

