# docid-32328245

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/22/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90071-10045

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-90192-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 08/16/1960

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE

WILLIAM J. BAPST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32328245

Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

" Released under

the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-2829

In view of contents of paragraph one, information

copies of this report are being furnished the Atlanta,

Buffalo, Cleveland, New York, Phoenis, Richmond and Savannah

Offices in order that they may have background information

in this case should they be called upon at a future date to

conduct investigation relative to subject in those divisions.

This report is being classified "confidential" as

it reveals the Bureau's investigative interestin a foreign

diplomatic official

namely MANUEL DE MOYA*X

(5)

Telephone data contained in this report was furnished

tO SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. by Mrs. LORRAINE NYSTROM, Service

Representative, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Miami, Floxida.

-c* -

- COVER PAGE -

SLUR ZECHEL

DocId: 32328245

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under thé John F. Kennedy Assassination Récords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017:

FD-204 (Ray, 3-3-5.9)

CONEXIDENTIA:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECREU

Copy 10:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File Me.

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.

AUG 1 6.1960

Miami 105-2829

Office MIAMI, FLORIDA

Bureau Filo #8

WILLIAM J. BAPST

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUO/GaL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X C6l6

ARS 1/32/98

INTERNAL SECURITY - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC;

REGISTRATION ACT - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Subject has been in contact with DOMINICK BARTONE, who was

arrested and subsequently convicted on charges of attempting

MOYA, First Minister of the Dominican Republic without

Portfolio.

DETAILS:

ALL TNPORMATION CONTAMIER -

RERE 07 IS UNCLASSTFTZD EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE:

419.95

Classivan

Star

massify on: BASR

In May, 1959, DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE was under

investigation by U. S. Customs, Miami,

Florida,in connection

Dim, Keys

with an attempted bribery of U.

S. Customs agents. Investi-

gation disclosed that BARIONE enjoyed a close relationship

with| AUGUSTO, PERRANDOSthen(Dominican Consul Generafla

On May 22, 1959, BARTONE, among others, was arrested

by U. S. Customs agents, Miami, in connection with the

attempted bribery and departure of a munitions laden C-74

aircraft destined for the Dominican Republic. BARTONE was

subsequently found guilty in connection with the shipment

CONP DENTIAL SECRET

This document contals, neither recommendations not conclusions of the FBI. It la the property of the all a loaned tol,

¡your agency; It and its contente are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId:32328245 Page 3

---

