# docid-32321161

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassinatión System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10376-10319

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62C-HQ-1029205-222

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HARTINGH

TO :

MORRIS

TITLE:

DATE: 11/07/1995

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321161

Page 1

24

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)2

«DATES, 11-14-2017

Memorandum

To

From

Mrs. Morris Y

John

Mattingh

JFK TASK FORCE

Date

11/7/95

Dep. Dir.

Chief of

Staff

Off. of Gen.

Counsel

Asst. Dir.:

Crim. Inv.

CJIS_

Finance

Info. Res.

Insp._

Lab.

National Sec.

Personnel

Training

off. of EBOA

Off. of Public

& Cong. Affs.

Director's Office

Subject

PURPOSE: To advise of the impending transfer of index cards

regarding the FBI's confidential sources and informants from the

Special File Room in Room 5991 to a secure area maintained by the

JFK Task Force in Room 6362.

RECOMMENDATION: None, for information only.

APPROVED:

Crim. Inv.LV

Into. Res. CGM

-Training

Crim. Jus. Into.

Inspection

_ Office of EsO

Servs.

_ Laboratory

Altairs

Director

Finance

National Sec. Rub

Office of Public &

Deputy Director_

_Gen. Counsel

Personnel

Cong. Affairs

DETAILS: Currently, the index cards containing the FBI field

office

confidential

sources and informants (active indices from

1930 - 1978 and inactive indices from 1978 - 1989) are housed in

boxes in the Special File Room.

The cards are arranged in

numerical order and contain sensitive information regarding each

source which includes the corresponding informant number, true

name of the source,

and other identifying data.

At this

time,

the JFK Task Force is the only office at FBIHQ utilizing the

index cards on a regular basis.

The cards contain critical and

relevant information, the access to which, employees of the Task

Force would not have by other means of research.

62-HQ-1029205

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1 - Mr. Bryant, Room 7110

1.

- Mr. Lewis, Room 7110

1

- Mr. Donahoe, Room 4648

1

- Mr. D. Evans, Room 4230

1

- Mr. Esposito, Room 7116

1

- Mr. Moody, Room 3012

1

- Mr. Divers, Room 4944

- Ms. Marshall, Room 5991

1

- IRD Front Office, Room 5829

1

-Mr. Riggio, Room

5336-D

Mrs. Keeley, Room 6362

DWIvIa (12)

DATE

JFK

626-49-1029205-222

4 too

Doc1d: 32321161 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

•DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum from John A. Hartingh to Mrs. Morris, dated 11/7/95

Re: JEK TASK FORCE

In view of the above, in approximately seven to

fourteen calendar days, the source/informant index cards will be

removed from storage boxes, placed in three file cabinets, and

com storage boxes

temporarily transferred to a secure space maintained by the JFK

Task Force in Room 6362. The cards will continue to serve as a

research tool for the Task Force, being accessed by only two

Special File Room employees currently detailed to the Task Force.

The two employees possess the seven security clearances assigned

as Special File Room employees which permit them

appropriate access to the index cards.

The retention of these cards by the JFK Task Force will

be in effect until it has completed the project; has been

approved by the Criminal Investigative Division

(CID) and the

National Security Division (NSD).

Jerry R. Donahoe, Unit Chiet,

Asset Unit, NSD and Neil F. Divers, Unit Chief Sensitive

Information Unit, CID, were contacted and approved the transfer

of the source/informant index cards.

In addition, Pamela E.

Marshall, File Supervisor of the Special File Room was consulted

regarding this matter and agreed to the transfer of the cards.

DoCId:32321161

Page

3

---

