# docid-32326429

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90055-10021

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-1171-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/23/1958

2

Released under the

John

• Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIl 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

TEODORO ENRIQUE CASADO CUERVO

ANTONIO DE VARONA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS; MEMO

y9.1

HT 54463

DocId: 32326429

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 72- 66

Reference Is made to Miami letter October 7, 1958,

to the Bureau (Bureau file 97-3243) entitled "JULY 26 CLUB

OF NEW YORK, aka.; FPM - CUBA; RA"

", with copy to New York,

which stated in part, "On September 21, 1950, MM 639-5

advised that ANGEL PEREZ VIDAL, July 26 Member, New York

City,

was in Miami and stated

that a Cuban pilot was sent

to the U.S. to spy on the July 26 by the Cuban Government;

that he was found out by the July 26; they took a signed

statement

turn

this information over to the Federal Government In New

York City.

Informant said that some of the members of the

O/A (Authentic Organization) wanted to kill this pilot,

but pErEz intervened, stopped them, and said it was

better that the U.S. Government know about his position

then, than taing action against him.

" It appears that

this Information may relate to ORGANVIDES in view of the

time element, and that it may lend some credence

ORGANVIDES, allegation to Mr. HERNANDEZ.

it may

to

LEAD

NEW YORK:

AT NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK

Will thoroughly interview ORGANVIDES and obtain

signed statement from him concerning details of this matter.

Will exhibit to ORGANVIDES the carbon copy of the document

which he sent to Mr. HERNANDEZ so that ORGANVIDES can

properly identify this document for use In the event of

future prosecution.

-2-

NW 54463 DocId: 32326429

Page 2

---

