# docid-32309474

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

- RECORD NUMBER :

124-10298-10261

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1693-25

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/10/1961

2

INTERPEN, INTV, GPH, MEMBERS, TRAINING, CUBAN

REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

r

v9.1

HH 53074

31

DocId: 32309474

Page 1

Date:

5/27/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12 " 3-56)

DECLA

ON.

BI

Date:

7/10/61

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

TO:

FROM:

CIA HAS NO ORIECTION TO

(Prioriey or Methöd of Mailing) A 2L 420

-DORMATON

IN THIS LOGUIDENT. RP 10-86-97

SLDIKSTU

11-497 JFK Ral

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI (2-169%)

SAC, MIAMI (2-312)

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCE (INTERPEN)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

SET KI WI

ReBulet to Miami, 6/30/61 entitled, "ANTI-COMMUNIST

LEGIONNAIRES; NEUTRALITY MATTERS".

MM 639-S advised that proposed trip of AGUSTIN

CAPO to Cay Söl Bank, north of Cuba

was never made and

these plans have been abandoned. (v)

Miami Office on 7/5/61 interviewed GERALD PATRICK

HEMMING; who claimed that his organization Interpen has 20

members, ll of whom were at Davie, Fla., practicing survival

training. He planned to send these 11 members to Key Largo,

Fla., for further training.

HEMMING denied recruiting members, explaining that

press publicity attracted many adventurers to Interpen, whose

purpose is to train Cuban Revolutionists in military techniques.

HEMMING claimed contact with different Cuban Revolutionary

Organizations, was previously a member of the Cuban Revolutionary

Air Force and

said he is aware of and has no intention to violate

U. S. Neutrality Act.

Six other Interpen members were located and interviewed

on 7/6/61. They advised they are not planning military invasion

of Cuba but are just parachute jumping and planning jungle

survival training for the

da sport of it.

24% Dals, CIA, ON1,

2-1693=

Bureau + (RM) (AM) I

RJD/mab : j gm

NiCa

*Approvec

OJULE

special Agent in Charge

120.1

INS ,Isfo1

LTG/Pad

AQSent

M

74 53074

DooId: 32309474

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-312

(aM)

MM 639-S advised HEMMING receives vast amounts of

mall from

young adventurers throughout the U. S. offering

their services and dally volunteers arrive in Mlami to Join

He cannot accept these people because of

several members at

photographer who plans to send

the f1lm to the Colombia

Broadcasting System.

Miami will continue to follow activities of Interpen

and keep Bureau advised. A report 1s being prepared.

-20

| HH 53074

DocId: 32309474

Page 3

---

