# docid-32306764

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10290-10404

HQ

92-6054-4TH NR 2311

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, PG

DATE:

04/25/1968

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, OC, IDENT, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306764

Page 1

32

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 141 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Pittsburgh (03-472)

April 25, 3908

Director, TBI (66-2542-11-39)

TOP ECHELON CRININAL

INPORIANE, PROGRAM;

O LA COSA NOSTRA - ANTI RACKETS

1

1

Kout

It has boon previously pointed out that one of ow

primary goals in the Criminal Intelligence Progran is the full

GenEtication and SuDSegu

ent prosecution of the barbersaip of la

the dosinant sroup in organizod erine in this

With an ever-increasing public awarenoss of the signifi-

canco of ICIl on a antional basis and in consideration of the Burenu's

vast responsibilities in the field of organizad erine, 15 1s

nocesaary that complete intelligence be developed regarding LCI.

A zovies of progress zecorded in the Identification of

the nonbers of LCU zevesle that a substantial number have been

identified.

It is noted, however, that your office has recorded

only identitying ten members as reaiding within your territory.

which is the same number you identified one year ago,

603-C-TE'a admission of menbership in ICK is an

one development a can cente satelligence program

Jo 50ш еSьOn11S 1 CEN

regarding

structure and membership of LCH in your territory:

Tou aze expected to shon a narked improvement in identi»

fries led mosbers within you division,

PO 603-C-18 ban the potential

to be of material assistance in this regard,

Every logical step

should be taken to utilize his full potential to the Bureau's

advantage.

Our investigations of ICH have discloned the absolute

nocensity of establishing

sources, Buch as PG 603-G-T5, who are in

• poaition to provido accurate data regarding this underworld organs

nation.

An authentis picture regarding the prevalence of ICH in a

particulae

ares cannot be obtained without mober-informate.

Lapor cance

sources cannot be overenphasized.

Your progress

L0 CAN MACCHI

#111 be closely followed. 92 - 6054-

HACN - AR

NOT RECORDER

JEK: jny

"SILOW

128 APR 26 1968

59MÁY 7 -

DocId: 32306764

Page

2

---

