# docid-32332396

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90102-10043

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-64869-33

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/12/1974

1

MAX LESNICK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332396

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

inter

te John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 1417050

DATE :

11-14-2017

ORM NO. 10

¡ITION

(41 CFR) 101-11.8

ED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-64869)

DATE:

12-12-74

FROM

EGAT,

MEXICO CITY (105-10933) (P)

SUBJECT:

MAX

LESNICK, aka

IS - CUBA

place c0i2-2013

ALL INFORMATION CONTIRELL

Re Miami letter dated 2-28-74.

VAN: med

12/18/14

• MEX

cc: MM, NK

Miami LHM dated 2-28-74 sets forth

informatIon eceived,

from a confidential source indicating that captioned subject was

allegedly responsible for the arrest in Panama of GABRIEI

GREGORIQ RODRIGUEZ who was suspected of plotting against the

TORRIJOS Government in Panama.

authorities.

RODRIGUEZ was arrested by Panaman

He was interviewed at length on numerous occasions

and gave statements concerning his participation in efforts to

raise money for a possible coup against the Government of Panama.

RODRIGUEZ was sentenced to 5 years

imprisonment on the Island of

Coiba in Panama during late November.

However, information

was

• received to the effect that RODRIGUEZ was to be released and

returned to the United States.

Panamanian authorities requested

to be advised as to whether or not RODRIGUEZ was wanted in the

ELA:

A warrant for RODRIGUEZ'S arrest is outstanding at

Bergen County, New Jersey, charging him with fraud.

Bergen

county authorities,

however, when contacted indicated that although

they have a warrant for RODRIGUEZ they would not request his

informal deportation or extradition from Panama at this time

inasmuch as the principal witness against RODRIGUEZ is uncooperative.

On 12-9-74,

Panamanian authorities indicated that they

are considering deporting RODRIGJEZ from the eountry and would

put him on a plane for Miami in the near future.

LEADS

REC46 / 05-68869-33

MEXICO CITY

10

175

7 DEC TE 1974

MDEC 26 1971

AT PANAMAETTICENCE DI

Will

furnish Bureau and

Miami via cable any information

received concerning deportation

date of GABRIEL GREGORIO RODRIGUEZ.

- Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

(2 - Miami, 105-3492)

- Mexico City

AC:ffs

5010-108-02

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on she Parroll Savings Plan 09 1001₴

DocId: 32332396

Page 2

RDED COPY FIL

---

