# docid-32341762

## Page 1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 104-10015-10410

RECORD

SERIES

: JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 201-289248.

OSWI F7

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

26-06-2017

May 31, 1996

Status of Document:

Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 5

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual.

Number of Postponements: 2

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The postponed information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is

Release Date: 05/2001 The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three

months after the decease of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it discusses sources and methods that properly may

be withheld under Section 6(1)(B) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: Crypt

Release Date: 01/2006

HH 53199

DocId: 32341762 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Board Review Completed: 05/14/96

53199

DocId: 32341762

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Date:

03/19/96

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10015-10410

RECORD SERIES

JEK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM:

MEXICO CITY

TO : DIRECTOR

TITLE

CABLE - TRANSLATION OF A RESUME OF CONVERSATION BETWEEN CUBAN

AMBASSADOR TO MEXICO JOAQUIN HERNANDEZ ARMAS AND PRESIDENT DORTICOS OF

CUBA.

DATE :

11/27/63

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS :

ARMAS

TELECON

DORTICOS

TRANSLATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SECRET

1A, 1B

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

12/15/93

OSW1: V7 1993.12.15.14:11:37:620028:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53199

DocId: 32341762

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

TO

'DIRECTOR

DEC4

1974

ROUTING

4 1

5

FROM : MEXICO CITMICROFILMED

CS COPYA

ACTION, C/AH 4

(MR. WHITTEN, WH AND C/C) NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1330, 27 NOV 63 LMG;

INFO. 8 _ DG/: OPP, G/GIZ, VR

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

he following aetion 1

authorized.

Дові

SEE R E 7 2717247

-27 Now 63 IN 6.90 / 0

Signed:

IMMEDIATE DIR

CITE MEXI 7891

R.0. #I - Unit G70 BS

Pras: 238

REF MEXI, 7068.

If destruction, cite

reasons and coordinate

1f appropriate.

1P/FIS

do FOLLOWING IS TRANSLATION OF A RESUME OF THE FOLLOW. UP

CONVERSATION TO THAT IN REFERENCE. SOURCE IS LIENVOY

2. LITENSOR HAS COPY.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON_

24 MAY 1976

Tres non

3. TAPES BEING SAVED.

= IMPDET CL BY 012208.

4. IN THIS CONVERSATION CUBAN AMBASSADOR LO MEXICO JOAQUIN

HERNANDEZ ARMAS RETURNS THE CALL T

PRESDIENT DORTICOS OF

CUBA•. THE CALL TOOK PLACE AT 1939 HRS (MEXICO CITY TIME).

• 5. THE RESUME: ~ AMBASSADOR HERNANDEZ ARMAS APOLOGIZES TO

PRESIDENT DORTICOS FOR HAVING BEEN LATE IN CALLING HIM, BUT

BECAUSE OF AN INTERRUPTION ON THE LINE, HE HAS NOT -DONE. SO.

UNTIL NOW. HE ADDS THAT 'I SPOKE WITH THIS PERSON AND DID NOT ADD

APR: 1976

Document Number

ent Number 175-617

ANYTHING IMPORTANT TO WHAT I HAVE ALREADY INFORMED AND WHICH

I RATIFIED VERBALLY. AND WITH RESPECT TO THE CONGRETE POINT 201-289248

WHICH YOU ASKED WAS THAT THERE WAS NOT

"OFFER OF ANY KIND.

200

DORTICOS: "NO.•"I WASN'T ASKING ABOUT AN OFFER. ' HERNANDEZ ARMAS:

27N6U63

•AH, I HAD UNDERSTOOD THAT WITH THE CONFUSIION OF THE...' DORTICOS:

"NO, I WAS REFERRING AS TO WHETHORCOINEY

HAD THREATENED HER SO THAT

200-

SECRET

GROUP i

deded rod a connor

doungrading

declassifization

ITH: 53199

DoGIA:3234WE2nIFaISNIAYNTHED.THAM THE INCING MENCE IN DESHIRTEN

Canu Nn

---

## Page 5

CLASSIFIED... MESSAGE

-SECRET

ROUTING

'4|

5

2

3

TO

FROM

ACTION:

INFO

:DIRECTOR

IN

PAGE 2

SHE WOULD MAKE A STATEMENT

THAT THE CONSULATE HAD GIVÈN MONEY TO

THE MAN... THAT AMERICAN.. UNDERSTAND?' HERNANDEZ ARMAS:

NO, NO, NOT AI ANY MOMENT. ' DORTICOS: "NOTHING OF THAT?'

HERNANDEZ ARMAS: "NO PORTION GARDED -

ABSOULIELY WAS GIVEN TO HER••

Cing stel

RATHER THEY (ENDEREZAR- STRAIGHTENED OUI?) THE INTERROGATION... '

DORTICOS: "THEN WE CAN GO ALONG WITH THE VERSION OF YOUR INFORMATIÓN?"

HERNANDEZ ARMAS: *YES, MR.

PRESDIENTE, OF COURSE. ' DORTICOS:

"THEN NOTHING MORE OF IMPORTANCE?" HERNANDEZ ARMAS: "NO, NOTHING

IMPORTANT. • ANYWAY, I AM GOING TO SUBMIT SOON

A DRAFT OF ALL THE

DETAILS, BECAUSE THERE ARE OTHER DETAILS OF MINOR IMPORTANCE, AND

OTHERS OF NONE AT ALL, BUT CONTAINED: IN THE STATEMENT..• AND I HAVE

ASKED HER TO MAKE ME A DRAFT AS: PROLIFIC AS POSSIBLE AND TO

SUBMIT IT AT THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY. **

SECRECT

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT JPFLOOR CABLES.

**Rapid translation of conversation betweed Dorticos and

Hernandez Armas on 26 November

* SECRET

HH 53199 DocId: 3234176REPRODUCTHON BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP 1.

Excluded from outomotke

downgreding. and

declossification

Copy. No.

---

