# docid-32318958

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10368-10092

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/26/1992

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32318958

Page

10

---

## Page 2

Reler

DA

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

-14-2017

June 26, 199

Honorable Bob MCEwen

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C.

20515

Dear Congressman McEwen:

82

This is in further response to your May 12th inquiry

on behalf of ME. Pete Johnson.

Mr. Johnson requests your support

of legislation

that, as you are aware, was recently introduce

in both the Senate and the House regarding the release of all

Government files pertaining to the assassination of President

effort to be of possible assistance in responding

to your constituent's concern, I am enclosing a copy of Director

Sessions' remarks before the Senate Committee on

Governmental

Affairs on May 12th regarding the Assassination Materials

Disclosure Act, Senate Joint Resolution 282. You will note in

reading that Director Sessions supports the maximum disclosure

under the law of information pertaining to President Kennedy's

assassination.

You will also

note his assurance that the FBI

will work cooperatively through the Department of Justice with

both the Senate and the House to develop a comprehensive approach

to these important issues.

I hope this information will assist you in responding

to Mr. Johnson.

Sincerely yours,

Dep. Dir.

ADD Adm.

ADD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Servs.

Crim. Inv.

Ident.

In10. Mgnt.

Insp.

Intell.

Lab.

Legal Coun.

Tech. Servs.

Training

Cong. Afts. 011.

OH. ol EEO...

011. Liaison &

Int. Affs.

01f. of Public Affs.

Telephone Am.

Director's Sec'y

, MAIL ROOK.

Doc1d: 32318958 Page 2

Inspector in Charge

Congressional Affairs Office

Enclosure

1 - Cincinnati - Enclosures (2)

1 - Mr. Boutwell (Room 6975) - Enclosures (2)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNSLASSIFICL

DATE 2/10/98 BY BY56685880/ mid

Attention: Mrs. McKissic

1- Mr. Drake - Enclosures (2)

1 - Research Unit - Enclosures

Attention:

Dr. Rosenfeld

Ì - Congressional Affairs Office

-H6-1021242-21

congressman McEwen writes on behalf of PETE JOHNSON,

who requests the Congressman's support for legislation that

would address the release of all the Kennedy assassination

A copy of the Director's Summary Statement before

the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, 5-12-92, on

the Assassination Materials Disclosure Act,

Senate Joint

Resolution 282, was sent to the Congressman for his

information.

An interim response was prepared by CAO

on 6-3-92.

JMM: sgs

(10)

HENRIVED:

The in sis

-N:8002..-4

Adm. Survs.

Crim. try.

_Laboratory -

6 S52019-01580

_Off. of Lialson

Ort. as

---

