# docid-32560479

## Page 1

ADMINISTR/ TIVE "PAGE

PH 92-Lự

1-1

T-2

T-3

T-4

T-5

T-6

I-7

-

I-S

Infurmants

PCI, to SA

JOSEPH A. VIRICA, July 18, 1958.

to SA J. ROLERT

¡FARCE, August 22, 1958:

MrS. JOHN VERICA, mother ofSA JOSEPH •

VERICA, who resides at 1738 Ritner

Street, Philadelphia, Pa., August

23, 1958.

Newark PCI

to

SA OVEN J:

JASSUP, June 19,

1958,

Newark 1925-C, to SA OWEN J. JESSUP;

June 19, 1958.

A

ormer PCI of

Newark, to SA OWEN J. JESSUP, June

19, 1958.

Atlantic City Pulice I'epartment

Detective JOHN MOONEY, whose identity

is protected, at his request, to

SA EMANUEL R. JOHNSON, June 4-5, 1958.

PH 514-C, to SA. J. ROERT FEARCE;

August 1,4, 1958.

PH 517-C, to

SA J. ROBERT FEARCE,

August I1, 1958.

OTHER 4

—30 -

ADMINISIRATIVE PAGE

703-3871

NW 45737 DocId: 32560479 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ADMINISTRATIVE, PAGE (CONTINUED)

PH 92-444

PH 251-0.

PH 269-0

PH 467-0

Criminal Informant Coverage

Informant für many years clusely

associated and acquainted with most

of the Philadelphia Tup Hoodlums.

Has furnished reliable infurmation

over ten year period on a monthly basis.

Present value limited due to informant's

poor health. Has identified 3RUN0ts

associates and illegal activities.

Informant closely assuciated with

subject.

Journeyed to Miami, Fla.,

with IRUND and scheduled to act as

BRUNO's advisur in contemplated trash

collection contract, lade County, Fla.

Has furnished information on location

BRUNO's numbers banks, BRUNO!s racket

employees, and associates, as well as

criminal activity. Furnishes information

on a weekly basis.

A numbers writer and pick up man in

South Philadelphia. Knows BRUNO and

other top houdlums. Frequents sume of

their known hangouts. Has furnished

information on BRUNO's methud of

operation in numbers and gambling,

and recent criminal activities.

Contacted on a monthly basis..

- 31-

AIMINISTRATIVE PAGE (CONTINUE!)

3032

NW 45737 DocId: 32560479 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ATMINISIRATIVE. PACE: (CONTINUED)

PH 92-444

PH 514-0

PH 517-C

PH. 518-C

PH 489-0

A tipstaff Philadelphia County Courts,

member of a well-known family conneoted

with illicit alcohol. Informantis

bruther; CHARLES, currently partner of

Philadelphia Tup Houdlum FELIX DE TULLIO

in still operation. Infurmant belteves

BRUNO responsible fur murder of another

brother, MARSHAlL, and is willing to

furnish information. Identified BRUNO's

associates and criminal activities and

movements un a daily basis.

A numbers writer formerly associated

with IOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia Top

Hoodlum, in illicit alcohol. Close

friend of numbers runner employed by

PHILIP TESTA, BRUNO's lieutenant®

Furnishes information on a weekly basis

regarding, BRUNO's movements, associates,

and activities.

Local prostitute with extensive arrest

record. Arrested with Philadelphia Top

Hoodlum PETER CASPLIA December, 1957.

Deceased husband was actively engared

in numbers activity.

Knows identity of

Individuals in numbers racket connected

with 3RUN). Has furnished extensive

information persons invulved in narcutics

trafficing and those engaging in illicit

alcuhol. Cuntact almost un a daily basis.

Numbers writer and bootlegger with many

local connectiuns. Has furnished infur-

mation on subject's activities and

assuciates. Cuntacted on a weekly basis.

-32 -

"ATMINISTRATIVE PAGE (CONTINUEL)

90310523

NW 45737 DocId: 32560479 Page 3

---

## Page 4

AMINISTRATIVE. PAGE: (CONTINUES)

PH 92-L44

PH 30-C

PH 515-0

PCI

Can furnish daily Information regarding

movements, associates, and activities

of Philadelphia Tup Huodluns WEISBERG

and HOFFMAN Believed currently

Interested in uperation of horse books

for subject's South Philadelphia aroad,

Engaged in racket activity in Philadelphia.

Connected with Philadelphi. Top Hoodlums

WILLIE WEISTERG and CAPPY HOFFMAN.

Acquainted with must of racket element

in Philadelphia.

PCIT

Old-time boutlegger and gambler.

Acquainted with most uf the Philadelphia

Top Houdlums. Knows subjecte

i .

PCI

Engaged in numbers with interest in

juke box business in Philadelphia,

PCI

Formerly inactive informant, reupened

since he personally knuws subject and

has previously furnished infurmation

on him,

PCI

Formerly employed as waitress by

DOMINICK SPARAGNO, Philadelphia.

Personally acquainted with FELIX TE TULLIO,

Philadelphia.

Brother of ANTHONY

¡FRRONE, lucal bootlegger, Has known

BRUNo and fRuvors family all her life:

PCI

Boy friend JOHN FUSCO local numbers

banker, Through this association well

acquainted with local racket element,

Personally acquainted with SANTORE

brothers, one uf whom (JAMES) arrested

with FE JI CASELLA, Philadelphia, Lives

close to and knows BRUNO.

BECAUSE BRUNO IS ALLEGED, TO HAVE COM ITTED GANGL/NI: EXECUTIONS

IN THE PAST, HE SHOUL! DE CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

: - 33-

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGES (GUNCLUDEL)

NW 45737 DocId: 32560479 Page 4

OTHER 4

---

