# docid-32561550

## Page 1

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Malone .

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy.

Radio

xxxTeletype

URGENT

6-28-62

5=50 PM EDST

ERA

FROM SAC PHILADELPHIA 282055

LANGELO BRUNO, AKA.; AR. DAILY. PH 614-C-TE REPORTED FRANK

MATTEO ASSOCIATE OF BRUNO, INFORMED ANGELO BRUNO MAURICE

KOVLER' (PH 535-C, FBI NUMBER 1-312-396) DIED JUNE 26 LAST

- HEART ATTACK. > BRUNO MAY ACCOMPANY MATTEO TO FUNERAL 2 PM,

INSTANT (KOVLER FORMER BOOKMAKER, BOOTLEGGER, AND PARTNER TO

ANGELO BRUNO IN OPERATION OF STILL LANCASTER COUNTY, PAOS

SEPTEMBER 8, 1950).

CALOGERO SINATRA, VISITING ITALIAN NATIONAL, WAS PRESENT

IN PENN JERSEY VENDING, INGO, JUNE 27 LAST WHEN IGNATIUS

DENARO, BRUNO'S UNDERBOSS; PHILIP TESTA, BRUNO'S PRINCIPAL

LIEUTENANT IN NUMBERS OPERATIONS; AND BRUNO CONDUCTED LEGAL

AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITY, RALPH KATZ, AKAO, TOMMY FOLEY, PHILA

NUMBER WRITER, PHILA PD NUMBER 79835, DELIVERED $585 TO TESTA

AT PENN JERSEY VENDING, INC., FOR FRANK IANNARELLA, PAYMENT .

EITHER FOR LOAN SHARK OR NUMBER ACTIVITY.

PH 623-0* CONFIRMED PRESENCE OF THOSE ABOVE AND CONCURRED

IN MOST OF ACTIVITIES INDICATED.

REG- 12

92-2717-612

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED: # 30216:03 PM

MEL

EX-108

TL COL

+-t: is

3 1962

JUL 10 19679

'ho intelligence contained in the above measage is to be disseminated outsido the Bureas, in ls suggested shat i be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 45737 DooId: 32561550 Page 1

---

