# docid-32290843

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10119

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

62-9-12-306

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

03/22/1962

2

CIP, FORT WORTH PDT, ALLEGATIONS, INVEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32290843 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

MAR 2 2 1962,

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr--

Mir. Callahan_

Mr.

Comrad

Mr.

Mr.

Mr.

Mr:

Rosen

hir.

Sullivan

Mr.

Mr.

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele Room.

Mies Eloinmes.

Miss Gandy-

bart

Memo

3/23/0

Evansa

URGENT 3-22-62 DATO AM CST WD

TO DIRECTOR /62-9-12/

FROM SAC DALLAS /94-55A/ 2 P

OCRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, DALLAS DIVISION. REBUTEL MARCH TWENTYONE.

FIRST REPORTS AT FORT WORTH INDICATED FORT WORTH CITY COUNCIL

TO CONDUCT AN INVESTIGATION OF PD. HOWEVER, CHIEF OF POLICE CATO

HIGHTOWER TOOK ALLEGATIONS MADE BY JIMMY DEAN TO TARRANT COUNTY GJ.

HIGHTOWER AND DEAN TESTIFIED AND HIGHTOWER SUBSEQUENTLY ANNOUNCED HE

INVESTIGATED DEANS COMPLAINTS AND FOUND NO BASIS OF MACT. INFORMED

SOURCES IDENTIFIED AS DEO. SHERIFF E. N. BUIE, PATROLMAN LEONARD DORSETT,

PCIS ANDE

JAND

STATE HIGHTOWER CANNOT STAND IM-

PARTIAL INVESTIGATION AND THEREFORE SET OUT TO "GET DEAN." ?

an

DEAN FIRST THOUGHT GJ WOULD GIVE HIS ALLEGATIONS THOROUGH IN-

VESTIGATION, HOWEVER, ACCORDING TO SOURCES, HARRY PHILLIPS, FORMAN OF

GJ AND SEVERAL OTHER WEALTHY MEMBERS OF THIS JURY DO NOT WANT ANY UN-

FAVORABLE PUBLICITY ON FORT WORTH XESOURCES STATE PHILLIPS HAS A SON

PRESENTLY WANTED FOR HOT CHECKSREG- 7

102403

62-9-12-306

LEONARD DORSETT, PATROLMAN STATED PD CAPTAINS HAVE THREATENED

PATROLMEN BY TELLING THEM TO KEEP "JHE MITAS SHUTS

IF CALLED BEFORE

GJ. SEVERAL OFFICERS HAVE APPEARED TO TESTIFY AND THESE ARE APPARENTLY

THE

ONES DEAN HAS FURNISHED INFO TO THE GJ ABOUT.

57 APR 11 1962

MR. BELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

sip

129-16

OTHER 4

NW 45760 DocId: 32290843 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

HIGHTOWER ANNOUNCED DEAN IS FIRED FROM THE DEPARTMENT BECAUSE

HE REFUSED TO TAKE A LIE DETECTOR TEST RE ALLEGATIONS. DEAN WILLING TO

TAKE TEST AT LATER DATE IF GIVEN BY AN OPERATOR OTHER THAN FROM FORT

WORTH PD. PCIL

STATED THAT

HE KNOWS HIGHTOWER LIED RE CERTAIN MATTERS BEFORE THE GJ.

THE CONCENSUS IS NO FURTHER INVESTIGATION WILL BE CONDUCTED BY

THE PRESENT GJ WHICH TERM EXPIRES MARCH THIRTYONE NEXT. NO INDICATIÓN

THIS TERM WILL BE EXTENDED.

DEAN FURNISHED INFO PREVIOUSLY TO BUREAU AGENT CONCERNING DET.

LT. GEORGE HAWKINS AND HIS RELEASING OF SHOP LIFTERS AND RECEIVING

STOLEN PROPERTY BY HAWKINS• THIS INFO DISSEMINATED TO WILL WILSON,

ATTORNEY GENERAL, AUSTIN, TEXAS IN DALLAS LETTERHEAD MEMO DECEMBER

FIFTEEN LAST. NO INDICATION AT FORT WORTH THAT ANY INVESTIGATION

HAS BEEN CONDUCTED BY WILSON-S MEN AND IT IS NOT BELIEVED DESIRABLE AT

THIS TIME TO DISSEMINATE ADDITIONAL INFO. CONSIDERATION WILL BE GIVEN

AFTER GJ ADJOURNS TO AGAIN FURNISH ADDITIONAL INFO TO WILSON. BUREAU

WILL BE KEPT ADVISED OF DEVELOPMENTS.

END

11-06 AM OK FBI WA MSL

CC: MR, EVANS

OTHER 4

NW 45760 DocId: 32290843 Page 3

---

