# docid-32326620

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES: HQ

124-90055-10212

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 105-95357-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:/

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

54463 Date:

DATE:

03/16/1961

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO DE VARONA

CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

LHM

y9.1

HH 54463

• 10

DocId: 32326620

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONFI

NTIAI

Re: Cuban Government In Exile

improve the facilities and believes that the public utilities

should be owned and operated by private investors.

NY. T-1 stated

that the FRD and the MRP also came to the agreement that

properties illegally confiscated by the castro Government

would be returned to their rightful owners and for properties

confiscated the Cuban Government would pay in bonds for twenty

years at four or four and one-half per cent.

NY T-1 also

stated that another point of disagreement in connection with the

agrarian reform is that the MRP does not approve of taxes for

lardowners whereas the FRD advocates a system of taxation.

The

FRD believes that for the first seventy-five cabs there would

be free taxation and that the basis for taxation would be the

value of the land placed upon it by the owners and that this

would serve not only as a way of taxing the property but in

the event of confiscation, the government would pay at the value

designated by the owner.

NY I-l advised that in connection with the taxation

of property for all land over the first seventy-five cabs the

following scale of taxation would be used:

100 to 200 cabs - one per cent of land value,

200 to 300 cabs - two per cent of land value,

300 to 400 cabs - three per cent of land value,

400 to 500 cabs - four per cent of land value,

500 to

- five per cent of land value.

NY T-l stated that a majority of the people believed

that the period immediately after Fidel Castro's overthrow

will be a very serious and deciding era in the history of

Cuba and since it is so important, they feel that a strong

president is needed during the interim between Castro's downfall

and the period of re-election.

NY I-2, on March 4, 1961, advised that the discussions

between the MRP and the FRD were concluded, and there was not

much hope for agreement between the two groups.

NY T-2 stated

that he had spoken with Manuel Artime Buesa, and Artime had Informed

him that the MRP wanted to maintain relations with the sovlet

CONE

TRIAL

- 4-

NW 54463 DooId: 32326620

Page 2

---

