# docid-32295550

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10215-10326

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-80291-1ST NR 52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/17/1960

3

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

[Restricted]

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

IC; 4

Redact

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32295550

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

CLADDITED BY 5668 SEP/G

10/98

DEGLASS 125X (C6)

SECRETS.

Date: 11/17/60

AIRTEI

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Malin JAS MC PR ECTION TO

- - - -

DEGAS:

S AND/OR

RELEASE OF IN ORMATION T-

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 10-0-47

510/KSR

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-86130)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (97-387)

GUIDO D' ALESSANDRO

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

Bufile 105-86130)

100: Newark

Declassity On: OADR JFK

REVIEWED BY LESSER TAGK FORCE

CHANGED:

MAX GARCIA, aka Max Reinart® ON

Max Relanerts

IS - DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

RA • DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

(Bufile unknown

(Tampe: 00)

7.23.17 dad

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

ReBulet to Director CIA, 11/8/60.

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOW OTHERWISE.

Title

second case marked changed from

MAX

REINARTS, aka,

to reflect

subject's true

name

MAX GARCIA,

subject having been identified by U. S. Custons Agent

JOHN VAN DIVER, Miami, as MAX

• GARCIA, Tampa,

Fla.

Lialson maintained with U.

S. Custons, Mian,

regarding instant matter since 11/7/60, as Information

obtained U. S. Customs also Interested this matter.

Information furnished confidentially by U. S. Custons as

set forth below tends to verify and elaborate on

information originally furnished by PSI. EDWARD T. PIATKOWSKI:

5

2

2

2

• Bureau

(RM)

Tampa

• Newark.

- New York (RM)

- Cleveland (RM) (Info) (BARTONE)

Miami

I = 105-2489 (D' ALESSANDRO)

5& DEC 5

MAnA

Approved:

SECRET

1

97-387 (GARCIA)

87-8756

(BROWDER)

- 105-20060 (BARTONE)

. • 105-2026

(TRUEBA),

105-1924 (FONDEURTS)

E: 134-520 (PLANKOWSKI

RBK: CIN

(12) 105-80291-

NOT RECORDED

- M 17 PAPV 30. 1960

ORIGINAT, FILED

_Special Arent_in_Charde

NW 45712 DocId: 32295550 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 97-387

SECRET

Custome

Intormant, who ascording to Custons is

rellable and 1s closely associated with GARCIA and instant

, matter, has advised

Customs that on 10/20/60,

MAX REINARTS

who was identifled

ant as MAX GARCIA through

photograph), MOUEL FADELI

who was identifled by informant

through photograph a8

111e 105-1924 DANd PLACIDO GONZATEZ,

Buffle 1105-79295

an American citize

OTHER 1C

formerly exployed by former Cuban

Fresident CARLOS

PRIO SOCARRAS a8

a ships captain and who has been arrested

in past by Customs on attempted Invasions against BATISTA

Goverrment in

Cuba, went to Dominican Republic (DR),

ROJAS, BurlIe 105-83192.

Miand file.

205-2026.

belleved to be

astons Intormant C

Departures and arrivals above persons verified by

Customs through Fan American Airways and Customs records.

While In DR, GARCIA approached by unidentified person

belleved to be member of Dominican Intelligence

and propositioned

to mount an invasion of the DR

V. S. Informant

said Invasions appeared to be "sell out" ta be captured by

Dominicans on arrival.

Upon return to U.s., Customs Informant

advised, GARCIA in contact with EDNARD BROWDER,

Bufile 87-41245,

Miami file 87-8756, who was to furnish two,110 boats along

with arus for invaders.

GARCIA also in contact with and being

furnished funds by DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE,

Buflle 105-80291,

Mami file 105-2006. It 18 to be noted BARTONE and BROWDER are

partners

In Servicios Internacionales,

S. A., Fanamanian Corp.,

and were previously associates along with GARCIA In matter

investigated by Custone.

Records of telephone calls made

GARCIA's room substantiste contacts withabove persons and

known to have contacted anonymous sourges in room and

believed to have technical installation on room:

Customs has

learned through informant that GARCIA 18 to fürnish boats and

arms for invasion

and some men to come from New York City and

some from Miant and that group to meet

at sea with group

Venezuela.

Boata, according to Customs,

are undoubtedly two,

110 sub-chasers

owned by BROWDER and arms will probably come

from BROWDER

who 1s arms dealer.

Customs belleve that 1f this

matter acturily materializes 1t

should

do so nithin tro or

three weeks.

Customs advised their coverage of this matter

developed

no information regarding possible kidnapping of

any Dominican Nationals In United States. Custons has requested

GARCIA not be interviewed at this

time as they hope to make

case on

GARCIA, BROWDER, TRUEBA aNd BARTONE and any otherg

Involved.

custons informant to be part of invasion force so

w111 have control over any attempted movement of arma

SECRET - 2 -

NW

45712 DocId: 32295550

Page

3

---

