# docid-32404321

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10192

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

det of 1992 144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53217 Date: 06-22-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WICKHAM. C/IMS, EXT SUPP GROUP

TO : C/JAF DECLASS PROJECT/HRP/OIM/ DA

TITLE : MEMO: DO RESULTS OF NEW SEARCH FOR JFK ASSASSINATION

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

ARRB DOC SEARCH

PAPER

CLASTATIOn PACESSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS :

04/30/03

JFK-M-16: F7: 2000.02.09.13:03:32:590044

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10192

HW 53217 DocId: 32404321

Page

1

---

## Page 2

CIA SPECIAL

- DOLLECTONgFIED

RELEAS

E IN FULL

2008

27 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, JEK Declassification

Project/HRP/OIM/DA

FROM:

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

Chief, Information Management Staff,

External Support Group

SUBJECT:

DO Results of New Search for JEK

Assassination Records

1.

This memorandum is in response to the request from

the staff of the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) .

The

staff requested that the CIA issue an Agency-wide

employee bulletin for a new search for JFK Assassination

Records. OIM-98-0081 dated 30 July 1998 was issued.

2. DO/Information Management Staff ran a corporate

search of COMET, the DO's electronic message. repository.

That search generated some 128 hits. Michelle Combs of the

ARRB staff reviewed the search results and selected three

records for inclusion in the JEK assassination records

collection:

3. The three selected documents have been sanitized

with Ms. Combs'

concurrence. The sanitization is more

extensive than ÜFK guidelines because of the documents'

proximity' to the present and to current sources and methods.

4. The documents are not herewith attached. They are

being provided separately by DO/IMS/ESG/HCS.

Eus

Fredrick

C. Wickham,

UNCLASSIFIED

HH

53217

DocId: 32404321

Page 2

---

