# docid-32296838

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/22/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10114

RECORD SERIES: HQ

• AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-80291-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/20/1960

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DEB, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBER,

RES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW.:

05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

v9.1

HH 54463

10

DocId: 32296838

Page 1

---

## Page 2

i STANDARD FORM NO. 61

- 170 an

Office Memorandum • UNITED STIES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-80291)

DATE: January 20, 1960

SAC, DETROIT (105-4259)

SUBJECT

DOMINICK E.

BARTONE

IS - CUBA;

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

00: MIAMI

Re Miami letter to the Director dated 11/30/59,

and report of SA MICHAEL H. FARRIN at Cleveland dated

12/21/59.

With reference to the investigation réquested

in relet, De 370-C, on January 2, 1960, advised SA

PALMER M. WEE that the name DOMINICK BARTONE is anfamiliar

Informant said he has heard of "BABE"

as being connected with the leansters Union in cleveland,

Chio.

He said that TRISCARO is not to his knowledge

associated with JOHN SCALISH and others in Cleveland

racket activity.

Informant stated that BOBBIE

JOHNS, a local

hoodlum and gamber, returned to Detroit from Santo Domingo

in the Dominican Republic just before Christmas.

Informant

exhibited a box of cigars which JOHNS had brought to him

from the Dominican Republic.

Informant said he is very

friendly.

with? BOBBIE JOHNS and can discreetly bring up

the name of DOMINICK BARTONE to see whether or not the

name nigan anythis to rouns.

Informant said that JOHNS, who has previously

worked fin

worked tas

BUD

Last name per reved to 0t

SWEETS, who was arrested With JOHNS at the Michigan Race

Track,

Middlebelt and Southfield, a few years ago.

Informant

said

he believes

SWEETS is still

in the Dominican Republic.

RUC

Bureau (REGISTERED)

1 - Miami

Detroit,

RSC: jm.rg

(5)

19 53 M4

704 51322

PET

3

MAN 22 1960

SUREA

I ALL INFORMATION CONTANEO

HERGIN IS UNCLASSIETD

DATE 13/12/95 BY 5668560/BCL

(TER)

62 FR

1 1960

NW 54463 DooId: 32296838

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DE 105-4259

The Informant stated that the name WILLIAM

ALEXANDER MORGAN is not familiar to him.

Informant said it is possible that he may

obtain some information regarding BARTONE from a source

other than BOBBIE JOHNS. He explained that about a month

ago,

he was approached by a representative of the Cronin

Coal Company,

Detroit,

and asked whether or not he would

be interested in using his barges to transport slate from

Port Erie, Ontario, to Detroit.

Informant said he showed

no interest in the

proposition, inasmuch as he does not

have enough barges to handle all of the rubbish he trans-

ports in connection with his disposal business.

Informant said if he learns of any connection

between BARTONE and any Detroit racket people, he would

advise the Detroit Office.

With reference to the investigation requested

by rerep, the telephone number TU 4-0245 is listed to

ROBERT E. MC CARTHY, JR., 1943 Huntington, Grosse Pointe,

Michigan, office telephone number WO 5-0511 (listed to

the Public Bank, Detroit).

According to information contained on pages 21-23

September 23

ALBERT LOWER, aka.; JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA; ITSP", Miami file

87-10768, ROBERT E. MC CARTHY, JR., is the Assistant Vice

President of the Public Bank, Detroit, and was involved

in financial negotiations with JAMES HOFFA of the

Teamsters Union.

Agents who interviewed MC CARTHY in the above

case feel that he was evasive and would not be the type

of individual to contact in a discreet investigation.

Since

MC CARTHY is Assistant Vice President of the Public Bank, a

relatively new bank in Detroit, it is not deemed advisable

to interview him or any other

official regarding instant

matter.

In view of the nature of the information submitted

by DE 370-C, and the information developed concerning ROBERT

E. MC CARTHY, JR., no further action will be taken y the

Detroit Office UAC, and no report will be submitted.'

- 2 -

NW 54463 DooId: 32296838

Page 3

---

