# docid-32287156

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10196-10432

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2839-184

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HOULIHAN, FREDERICK T.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/18/1963

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS :

RAB, BUSS, TRA, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

02/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2:

v9.1

NW 45739

14

DocId: 32287156 Page 1

---

## Page 2

2 .

PH 92-441

This number was called on 11/28/62 by the subject

from the Hotel Forrest, New York City.

It was not possible to

determine specifically the number called, other than as set

forth above:

AT ORANGE, N. J.

Will Identify the subscriber to telephone number

2-7899, which was called twice during 10/62 by CASPER GUIMENTO,

an associate of the subject, from the Hotel Forrest, New

York City.

NEW YORK:

AT NEW YORK CITY

1. Will maintain contact with PCI VIOLET DUNNE

regarding

the visits of the subject and CASPER QUIMENTO to

the Hotel Forrest, New York City.

2.

460 West 34th Street,

n stee sode cons the reason dee Mess tact

with this concern by CASPER GUIMENTO.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGION, D. C.

Will follow and report the disposition of the

subject's case in the U. S. Court of Appeals.

so port the

PHILADELPHIA:

AT CHINCHILIA, PA.

421 Northern Boulevard.

This concern was called from the

concern. Determine, also, If subject is known to this organization.

-C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32287156 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 92-441

AT PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Will maintain contact with PH 614-C-TE for information OTHER 4

concerning contacts between subject and ANGELO BRUNO.

AT PITTSTON, PA.

Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 521-C

PH 526-C

AT SCRANTON, PA.

1. Will maintain contact with the following:

PH 559-C

PCI

PCI

2. Will attempt to identify JAMES LESI, Main Street,

Scranton,

who occupied room at the Hotel Forrest,

New York City,

on 11/2,3/62 and charged this to Tri-City Textile Company,

Old Forge, Pa.

3. Will identify subscriber to telephone DIamond

6-3981, which was called by CASPER GUIMENTO from Hotel

Forrest,

New York City, during 10/62.

Will attempt to determine the identity of GEORGE

CAVANAUGH, 1809 Washburn Avenue, DIamond 3-5557, whose telephone

number was called 7/17,18/62 from the residence of JANE COLLINS.

Will consider interview of CAVANAUGH.

Will attempt to determine the activities of

MICHAEL JOULWAN and his association with the subject.

6. Will maintain contact with GEORGE DAVIS, Superintenden

of Police, Scranton Police Department, for any Information

-D-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32287156 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-441

concerning the activities of subject, WILLIE STEVENS, and

ISSA NAKHLEH.

7. Will interview GEORGE A. LOWRY, 221 South Hyde

Park Avenue.

His home telephone, DIamond 6-3451, was called

on 10/16/62 by CASPER GUIMENTO from the Hotel Forrest, New

York City.

Will Identify the operator of the "Tender Trap,"

523 Linden Street, telephone DIamond 4-9267. This number

was called from the residence of JANE COLLINS on 7/17/62.

• Will recheck the telephone call made on 8/2/62

from the telephone of JANE COLLINS to Indian Orchard, Mass.

This was originally reported as being to LI 3-2000.

appears: more likely the call was made to LI 3-2006.

AT WILKES-BARRE, PA.

Will identify the subscribers to the telephone numbers

at Wilkes-Barre and Plymouth, Pa., which were called by the

subject or CAPPY GUIMENTO from the Hotel Forrest, New York City,

on 10/30 and 11/1/62.

PH T-1

PH T-2

PH T-3

PH T-4

PH T-5

Informants

PH 614-C-TE

PH 623-C*

PCI

PCI

MARY HAGAN, Secretary,

Legal Office, New Englan

Telephone and Telegraph Company,

Providence, R. I.

-E-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739

DocId: 32287156

Page 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 5

PH 92-441

PH T-6

PH T-7

PH T-8

PH T-9

PH T-10

PH T-I1

PH T-12

PCI. VIOLET DUNNE,

New York Office

Records of CSNY-1

PCI JACOB KOSH

PH: 526-c

PH 559-C

PH 521-C

EDWARD LIVINGOOD, Manager,

Host Motel, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

Administrative Data

submit, das not recelved until after referenced report wag

Contacts were made with the following, on the dates

indicated, with negative results:

ON / STAR, IRS, Walkes-Barre, Pa.,

5052/03/GOOOMAN, ATTD, WIlkes-Barre, Pa.,

Chief of Police JOSEPH DELANEY

Police Department, on 1/9,30/63.

Pittston

Former PCI ORLANDO MENCHI, on 1/28/63.

-F-

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32287156 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PH 92-441

Officer FRANCIS LINNEN, Pittston Police

Department, on 1/28/63.

pete 01 2/30/, MAC JEJEWSKI, PSP, Wyoming,

PCI WILLIAM STRUBECK, on 2/6/63.

The information from the records of the Bell Telephone

Company, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., was furnished by Miss LEILA PATTON,

Supervisor.

The information from the records of the Bell Telephone

Company, Pottsville, Pa., was furnished by Miss HELEN LOTZ,

Supervisor.

The information from the records of the Allegheny

Airlines,

-G*

COVER PAGE

NW 45739 DocId: 32287156 Page 6

---

