# docid-32287894

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10198-10170

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1943

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/04/1967

5

SGI, INQUIRY, ACT, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32287894

Page 1

178

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. "Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of

1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Deloach

dates

VERTANE AGENC

Classified y

Declass:

Transmit the following in -

"ADVISED D! B

SDIP (S) 9E

Via

AIRTEL

TO

eed

SZDE

SPGRONFIDENTIA

потя

CONFIDENT

tAn

(Type in plain text or code)

REVERSE

Mr. Wick-

Mr. Casper.

ORI

Mr. Callahan.

FICATION Contad..

Ma Tran

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

AIR MAIL

Tele. Room

CrisTity pr Method of Maile

Miss Holmes

COMMINTEE (DREL

Miss Gandy-

50/85

FROM

BY I

Director, FBI (92-31P1):

egat, Mexico City (92-13)

SAMUEL Mo

GIANCANA,

ANT TRACKETBER A V

aka.

(P)

SIFIED

1719

ALL INFOR

UNCLASS

SHOWN

DAT

0 12:81

CLASSSAICATLON

WHERE

Re Mexico City cable dated 12/20/66 /v)

EXCEPTI

OVERWISE

p!' MEX-258g

who has furnished reliable information in the

advised on 12/16/66 that after extensive inquiry at

Cuernevaca, his investigators determined that the Subject had

resided alone at the Hotel Canarios in Cuernevaca from approximately

November 20 to December 6, 1966.

was residing alone and was

not noted to have been in contact with anyone.

No telephone

calls could be traced to him.

He was driving a 1966 gray Ford

Galaxie two door, license plates unknown.

Hotel employees

recalled that Subject frequented the Hotel Casino

de

Selva,

which has the leading night club in Cuernevaca. M

Source noted that the Hotel Canarias iS definitely not-

a first class hotel in Cuernevaca

He advised that extensive

as well as the

includod a check of ali the hotels ource noted that here are di

realty agencies handling houses.

literally thousands of luxurious furnished houses for rent in

Cuernevaca

ma.

brokers.

Which are not listedenhoush the

MhO

TIED

8

Bureau

(1 - Liaison

Section)

(2 - Chicago,

92-3491

(1 - New York, Info.)

1

(1 - San Juan,

Info.)

-

. Mexico City

RSC: ako

(9)

C k- Wick,

SHOWN

36

Decletsit one

REC

EX-104

92-3171-1943

17 JAN 10 1967

1-18-

+SJ-Un0-1

01. T

met

CTASSITIED BY LA

TH FROM GDS, CATEGORY

6 2YRN 25196 CONFIDENTIAL SOME ATON

LEWITE

2,8

9Р)пор

DocId: 32287894

Page 2

Lotel.

---

## Page 3

eleased under the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAD

MEX 92-13

P. MaQuire

Investigation at the Mexico City Airport on 12/19/66

She was searted on the passenger manifest as JEAN

MCGUIRE. Xid

Menave, new york)

she was met by an Unknown

light brown

horn-rimmed glasses, good looking and well

dressed.

(e)

On 1/3/67 photographs of RICHARD

CAIN were received

direct frôm Chicago and he was

identitted.trom

rom these photographs

as the person who met McGUIRE.

mexico

Il

MCGUIRE and CAIN travelled in an airport taxi to the

Hotel Maria Isabel. | Agents of the Mexican Federal Judicial

Police, Airport Detail, surveilled them to the hotel and advised

that CAIN and MCGUIRE

appeared to be necking in the taxi.

On 12/20/66 RUDOLPH HANS (Protect by request), Security

Manager of the hotel chain operating the Hotel Maria Isabel:.

furnished the registration card dated 12/19/66 in the name

"P. McGUIRE, 525 Park Avenue, New ork City, nationality - American".

No 'profession or occupation is listed. The registration card

contains the notation

"McGuire Sr. y Sra," (Mr. and Mrs.) •

room rate was 225 pesos per day ($18.00 USe).

McGUIRE had no

reservation and indicated she planned to stay until 12/24/66.

Mr. HANS noted that his security staff at the hotel

had been alerted the previous evening to attempt tò discreetly

follow the activities of these persons. He determined they made

He determined through his staff that these

individuals checked out of the hotel at 5:30 a.m. on 12/20/66

and refused aid in getting a taxi.

de la

Refonna

They crossed Avenida Paseo

foot with their luggage and caught a cruising

cab.

The hotel had no further information concerning them.

Mr... HANS

notified all members of the Mexican Hotel Association

to communicate with him if they had any knowledge of these

-2-

923171-1943

DocId: 32287894 Page 3

---

## Page 4

eleased under the Toln F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

individuals.

TO

date

there has been no reply to this

circularization.

Subject was noted at the Mexico City Airport in the

waiting room prior to the arrival of McGUIRE:

however, he did

not approach McGUIRE or make any contact with her.

He was

observed in the company of CAIN prior to the time CAIN contacted

MCGUIRE.

Upon depurcing the airport, the cab containing CAIN

and MoGUIRE stopped and CAIN left the cab and conterred for a

with the Subject, who was in a white Oldsmobile convertible

with Illinois license PG 5000, parked in the airport parking

Nothing further has been seen of the Subject or this

ca

The Mexica

surveillance informants MEX-25, MEX-55,

MEX-42 and MEX-19 ate covered areas frequented by Americans

in heal Suite a enorate no this date have. seen no

has furnished reliable information in the

past:

conducted extensive inquiry in Cuernevaca concerning Subje

and this car on 12/20 through 12/23/66 with negative results.

(C) [MEX-249 also sent investigators to Cuernevaca; Taxco:

and Acapulco

could find no traceaf Subject, his companions

or this car.

It is noted that Chicago has advised that this car is

registered to PETER GRANATA, an Illinois State Representative

under the complete domination of the Chicago hoodlum group.

Chicago advised that RICHARD CAIN is a former Chief Investigator

for the Cook County Sheriff's Office and closely connected with

the Chicago hoodlum group.

He reportedly was convicted of

perjury in a drug store robbery.

C)(NEX-21 who has furnished rellable information in the

past, commenced checking Mexico City hotels on 12/20/66 and to

date has found no listing for the Subject or his companions A

Mexico City, Federal Judicial Police stationed at

the

Mexico City Airport were requested to review all out-going

-3-

92-3-171-1943

DocId: 32287894 Page 4

---

## Page 5

celeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

CONPIDENTTAM

passenger lists beginning early morning of 12/20/66 and to date

have located no record of departure of Subject or his companions

erICAn HOWARD Protect by request), Sales Manager.

for Pan American Airways, advised on various

dates in late

December, 1966, that he could locate no record of a reservation

for Subject or McGUIRE to the United States Via Pan American or

Aeronaves •

Aires is Canadian Pacific. &

career rom mexico City to Buenos

Canadian

MEX-156 advised on 12/21/66 that he had contacted

Pacific and could locate no record of a reservation for

Subject or McGUIRE from Mexico City to Buenos Aires.

He determined

that McGUIRE came to

return reservations.

Mext

on a one-way ticket and

did not have

He also advised

he had contacted the leading car-rental

agencies in Mexico City and could find no record

_Subject having

rented a car in November or December, 1966 (8)

It is noted that the "New York Times" for 12/18/66 has

an ad indicating that the McGUIRE sisters will be

Sheraton Hotel in San Juan 1/5 through 1/18/67.

appearing at the

Information concerning Subject's presence in Mexico has

been discussed with officials of the Mexican ImmigratiOn ServiCe,

principally JORGE VASQUEZ ROBLES (Protect by request)

advised they have no record at subject De ANTHONy fisCI, therefores

if these individuals are in Mexico it is as tourists for a limited

stay. Although it was indicated that as tourists they probably

are not involved in any immigration violation, nevertheless,

immigration officials have requested that they be notified if

Subject is located in Mexico and it has

be requested to depart, if located.

Information copies to New York and San

Juan because of

their continuing interest in the activities of these individuals.(vl

All offices are requested to be alert for any informat

tion as to subject's possible location in Mexico. (S)(e)u)

-4-

POMPITTIR

92-3171-1943

DocId: 32287894 Page 5

---

## Page 6

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act'of 1992 (44-USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

LEAD:

COMFIDENTIAN

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

es (4)

At Mexico, D.F•

Will continue efforts through sources to locate the

and thereafter furnish this

and the vexacal inutean denie on to te Bureau

SEXIET

=5=

98-3171-1943

DocId: 32287894

Page 6

---

