# docid-32201937

## Page 1

Date: 05/11/94

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10048

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : STATE

FROM : LEGAT, PARIS

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

DATE : 10/26/62

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

CUBELA Y SECADES, ROLANDO L.

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

PLANS TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN LEADERS

CASTRO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/12/94

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 53244 Date:

06-12-2017

335-2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HW 53244 DocId: 32201937

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Сілі

SECRET

THE FOREIGN SERVIC...

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

American Embassy

Paris 8, France

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATIÓN AND/OR

RELEASE OFTHIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

Gm 194

FORMATION CONTAINED

UNCEASSIUTED

Date:

To:

FroM;

Subject:

October 26, 1962

Director, FBI (165-77667)

Legat, Paris (105-1779) (RUC)

ROLANDO L. CUBELA

" SECADES

IS - CUBA

Re Paris letter 8/22/62.

Instant matter was discussed with

Assistasy

October 23,

He advised

that no information

interest to the Bureau has been obtained by thA

in captioned matter.

He stated that they are aware

of tHe

Bureau's interest and in the event they receive any

information of interest it will be furnished to this

office.

,3 - Bureau (1 - Liaison)

1 ~ Paris

HWP: 1J

(4)

REVIEWED BY EBI/JFK TASK FORCE

RELEASE IN FULL

A RELEASE INPART

I. TOTAL DENIAL

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation nutails your Commities.

Its use is limitr!

your Caramire cadathe content may not be cisclosed to unintivrized person.

nel without the express approval of the EBl.

REC- 28

105. 11661-19

9803 R00/gel

7K

1302

HH 53244

DocId: 32201937 Page 2

---

