# docid-32289359

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10201-10135

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-9-1069

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, LV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/26/1962

2

THP, BUS, SURVEILLANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

11/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289359

Page 1

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Remedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USC 2107 Note).

DAPESE (FFX1422019

dr.

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

9/26/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, LAS VEGAS (92-423) (P)

ACTIVITIES OF TOP HOODLUMS

IN THE CHICAGO AREA

00 - ChicagOP

HOODLUNA PROGRAM

LV 25-C advised SA M. B. PARKER on 9/26/62 that

the Plan-It Travel Agency, 6931 West North Avenue, Oak Park,

Illinois, which is owned by ANTHONY R. ACCARDO, son of well-

known hoodlum ANTHONY J. ACCARDO, and

ROBERT NITTI, son Of

the old-time hoodlum FRANK NITTI, have booked a short

convention into the Dunes Hotel, Las Vegas, for an organization

known as the Oak Park Fellowship Club. CI

advised that this

is composed of only those individuals of Italian extraction.

CI advised that the group is scheduled to arrive sometime on

10/3/62 by chartered aircraft. They will be in Las Vegas

for approximately two days.

CI advised he had received a call from NITTI that

in addition to the usual room reservation,

he desired a

deluxe suite reserved for a "VIP."

CI stated that he is not

sure but he believes that NITTI stated the name of the VIP

was

SAM MOONEY •

On the morning of 9/26/62, in the presence of SA/

pare

PARKER, LV 25-C telephonically contacted NITTI to confirm

- Bureau (Registered ) (AM)

- Chicago (92-350) (Registered) (AM)

- Las Vegas (1 - 92-423)

(1

- 92-308)

MBP/ms | 4-

(8)

(1

- 137-82)

1962

PEr 23.

62-9-9-1062

A SEP 28 196c

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Pe

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32289359 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy, Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

IV 92-423

that the deluxe suite had been reserved, and CI asked NITTI

what name should be used in making the reservation. NITTI

replied to reserve the deluxe suite in his name. CI replied

"We can do that but do I know the individual who will be

using it." NITTI replied "You might know him.

You'll see

him when he gets there," and would make no other statement.

CI is departing Las Vegas on 9/29/62 to Chicago

and points East on convention business and he made

appointment to see NITTI in Caicago on the worning of 9330/620

and at that time will obtain a definite arrival time for the

group to reach Las Vegas on the basis that the Dunes Hotel

has to provide transportation from the airport to the hotel.

Upon ascertaining the arrival time of the chartered aircraft

Chicago, at which time he will furnish same and the identity

of the individual to use the deluxe suite if he can determine

the same.

Las Vegas, upon receipt of the information of the

arrival of the aircraft, will take appropriate steps to

attempt to identify all of those individuals arriving.

If

possible, photographic surveillance will be instituted and

copies will subsequently be furnished Chicago.

Chicago, if any information developed as

• to identity

of any individual

planning to make the above-described trip,

should advise Las Vegas since same will be of benefit in

attempting to identify those individuals.

2

DocId: 32289359 Page 3

---

