# docid-32339289

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90147-10002

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-93072-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 08/17/1961

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

RICHARD GIBSON

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM; ENCLOSURE

v9.1

DocId: 32339289

Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collection

Aôt o1 1992 714 05C

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONL

DENTIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU

OF INVESTIGATION

ALS INFORMATION CORN LE

HERER IS UNG ASS CED

In Reply, Please ReferiPHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

August 17, 1961

Hotels

[&tingsgale Ave:

RICHARD GIBSON

T-1,

confidential source abroad,

August

1961

that ALEXANDERACLAYMAN and his wife, DORIS

THERESE

réside at 8 Kingsgate Avenue,

London,

O.Ka

3. England

Mrs. Werander

CLAYMAN was born in London on July 3, 1921, the

SOn OF HYMAN CLAYMAN,

was granted British nationality

ALEXANDER

CLAYMAN is managing diréctor of three garment manufacturing

T-1 informed that one

these firms is BERNARD JOSEPH CLAYMAN.

of the directors of one of

His relationship

with ALEXANDER is unknown; however,

CLAYMAN in 1948 was a member of the

one BERNARD JOSEPH

• "43 Group

ganization Iormed by dews to combat fascism.

Gordor

I-1 also advised that GORDON HAROLD KAYE,

En lang

charon ana counts at angra danstone, hell, in

Tonidan,

is the son of SIDNEY KAYE formerly ZURECHAKOPCHINSKY who

was born in Poland.

n 19S9 GORDON LAYE waS involved in Engle

ctivities against Sir OSWALD MOSLEY who was at that time

running for Parliament. MOSLEY is well known for his

Fascist views.

in 1948 was a member of the

Car z1amero there of

A brother of GORDON KAYE

• "43 Group. "(S)

MARSHALLPAXE Englak Ifs,

11/14/94

crashed or SoS MAC SAT

Declassity on:

DADia

(FK)

This document entains neither

... scions of

recorni:::

the FD:.

to your agency;

the FBI and

it and its contents are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

AGERC

*CES

"IN

Classiard by 12

inerrat from CDS

indefinite

vale

Page 2

DVIR

Q118

VDAICE

ENTA

FELROLSLYLE

DocId: 32339289

CONFIN

ENTIAI

ENCLOSURE

105-93072-35

---

## Page 3

" Released under the Tohn F./ Kennery Assassination Records Collection ACt

1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFI

IDENTIAL

UNDER SEE TO ANCE

SERRE

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

August 17, 1961

"Dat

KIT Hoter.

In Reply, Please Refer t0

•File No.

BUL PRORMATION CONTAMED

MEREIR 1B UNCLASSIFIED EACEED

SMERE BHOWN OTHERWIS

RICHARD CIBSON

T-1,

a confidential source abroad, advised on

August 11, 1961

that ALEXANDER CLAYMAN and his wife,

DORIS

THERESE CLAYMAN nee POSER, reside at & Kingigate Avenue,

London, N. 3.(S

CLAYMAN was born in London on July 3, 1921, the

Son Of HYMAN CLAYMAN, a tailor,

Mrs. CLAYMAN was born

August 24, 1924, at Leipzig,

Her father, SIGPRIED POSER

was granted British natlonality in 1939.;

ALLANDER

CLAYMAN 1s managing director of

firms.

1 informed that one of the directors of one or

garment manufacturing

these firms 18 BERNARD JOSEPH CLAXMAN.

His relationship

with ALEXANDER 1e unknown; however,

one BERNARD JOSEPH

CLAYMAN in 1948 was a member of the "43 Group,

an ox-

ganization formed by Jews to combat Fascism. S

T-1 also advised that GORDON HAROLD KAYE, a

chartered accountant, was born December 15; 1922,

in

London and resides at 3 Langland Mansions, N. W. 3.

1s the son of SIDNEY KAYE formerly ZURECH KOPCHINSKY who

was born in Poland.

In 1959 GORDON KAYE was involved in

activities against Sir OSWALD MOSLEY who was at that time

running for Parliament.

MOSLEY 18 well known for his

Fascist views.

A brother of CONDON KAYE, MARSHALL KAYE,

1n 1948 wes a

member of the "43 Group."(S

11/14/94

Classie Sy SOSMACGAT

Dedlassity Of:

This document contains neither

GADR

(JFK

recommendatica

condusions of

the FBI. Ali:

the FBi and.i.

i Jour agency:

it and its contents ase not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONE DENTIAL

DocId: 32339289 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

COND

VIAL

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BU

OOETAVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORWATION COSTAMED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

August 17, 1961

WHO SORMACIGAT

Declassity on:

BADB

UFK

RICHARD GIBSON

T-l, & confidential source abroad, advised on

August 11,

3961 that ALEXANDER CLAYMAN and

his wife, DORIS

THERESE CLAYMAN nee POSER, reside at 8 Kingsgate Avenue,

London, N. 3. (S)

CLAYMAN was born in London on July 3, 1921, the

-SOn OF HYMAN CLALMAN, & tallor.

Mrs, CLAYVAN was born

AUGUSt 24: 1924, at Leipzig,

Her father, SIGPRIED POSER

was 'cranted Eritish nationality in 1939, ALEKANDER

CLAYMAN is managing director of three garment manufacturing

f1rms:

I-l inforned that one of the directors of one of

firms 1s BERNARD JOSEPH CLAYMAN.

His relationship

CLAYNAN in 1948 was a member of the

;* an or-

ganization forned by Jews to combat Fascism.

I-I also advised that GORDON HAROLD KAYE,

chartered accountant

was born December 15, 1922,

in

London and resides at 3 tangland Vansions, N. W. 3.

is the son of SIDNEY KAYE formerly ZURECH KOPCHINSKY who

was born in Poland.

In 1959 GORDON KAYE was involved in

activities against

Sir OSWALD MOSLEY who was at that time

running for Parliament,

MOSLEY is well known for hie

Fascist

Views.

A brother of CORDON KAYE.

in 1948 was a

MARSHALL KAYE,

member of the "43 Group."(S)

This document contains neither

recommendet.

inciusions of

the FBi. iii:

the FBi and

it and its

your agency;

contart are not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONDE TAX

SEEMED

DocId: 32339289 Page 4

---

## Page 5

• Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

assination Reeorts Collection hot of 1992 +140

107 Hoter.

GON

RINGTAL

He denn

STATES

BEPARTMENT

ICE

FEDERAL BUREAL

OT

AVESTIGATION

SECRET

WASHINGION 25, D. C.

August 17, 1961

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ALL INFORAATION CONTANED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFTEO EXCEP

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

RICHARD GIBSON

T-1,

a confidential source abroad, advised on

August 11,

1961 that ALEXANDER CLAYMAN and his wife, DORIS

THERESE CLAYMAN nee POSER, reside at 8 Kingsgate Avenue,

London, 1. 3. (S)

one was born in London on July 3, 1922, the

-son of HYMAN CLAYMAN, a tallor.

HIPS, CHALMAN was born

August 24, 1924, at Leipzig.

Her father, SECERIED FOSER

was granted British nationality in 1939,

ALEXANDER

CLAYMAN 1s managing director of three garment manufacturing

firms-

I-l informed that one of the directors of one of

firms. 1s BERNARD JOSEPH CLAYMAN.

His relattonship

with ALEXANDER te unknown; however, one BERNARD JOSEPH

CLAYMAN in 1948 was a member of the

"43 Group,

gantzation formed by Jews to combat Faseism.

T-I also advised that CORDON HAROLD KAYE, a

chartered accountant, was born December 15, 1922,

London and resides at 3 Langland Fansions,

N. W.

3.

He

is the son of SIgNEY KAY! formerly LURECh

KOPCHINSKY who

was born in Poland.

In 1959 GORDON KAYE was involved in

activities against Sir OSWALD MOSLEY who was at that time

running for Parliament.

MOSLEY is well known for his

Tasetst viewe.

in 1948 was a member of the

not GO BRE MARSHALL KAYS,

ISSeSMANGAT

vectastry ent

*theorte

DADE

This document contains neither

recommendati ne

conclusions of

the FBi.

mapesty of

the FBi anu.s...

so your agency;

it and its

contei.is

52S

not to be

distributed outside your agency.

CONEY

DENTIAL

SEAG

DocId: 32339289

Page 5

---

