# docid-32989579

## Page 1

File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

1373 - EBF

---

## Page 2

-

SSC REQUEST 12-18-75

ITEM 6

Reference FBI Memo 1-27-76

File Copy

5e1373

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Erpig, Please loifer 8o

Ло.

UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INTESTIGATION

Los Angeles;

California,

Barch 20, 1958.

CONFIDELTIAL

• MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR.

SECURITY LATTER -

Lieutenant H. H. Fair, Anaheim Police Departnent,

Anahein,

California, advised March 14, 1958, that Dr. Martin

Luther King,

Jr. was scheduled to address the convention of

the California Democratic Council at the Anzhaim Convention

Inter, Anaheim, Callfornia, at noon on Saturday, barch 25,

Ileutenant H. H. Fair, supra, advised on March

16, 1958, that Dr. King appeared at a press conference at the :

Disneyland Hotel,

Anaheim,.

California,

that date.

Ha stated that

he never endorsed

any presidential candidate, but spoke highiy

of Senator Eugene sc Carthy, innesota, and, indicated that he

magne endorse rim as a presidential candidate in the 1953

election, claiming thai he is passive, non violent bui milliant

against poverty and the Vietnam Har.

Lieutenant Fair, supra, stated that dr. King 21s0

appeared as the main speaker at the luncheon of the California

Democratic Council which was held at the Anahein Convention

Center on the same date.

Dr.-ring stated that if the Governmert

would do something about Negro poverty in the winter tire there

would be:less likelihood. of summar violence.

He also indicated

that there would be a narch on washington, D.

and the particiants will conduct a "stay-in" ad Governmental

In April 1953

' offices until the cna of the congressional session to protast

Negio poverty.

He stated that it was ridiculous io spend roney

to ki13. Vietnanese in Vietnam and noi help underpriveleged regroes.

Lieutenant feir, supra, stated that ring left Ananeim

at 2:30 p.m. for an unknown aupointment in Los Angeles.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

• Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctiong

CONFIDENTIAL

Cide a

35152 DocId: 32989579

Page 5O.:

= 1.10%6.=

3264

---

## Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

MARTIN LUTHER KING,

SECURITY LATTER -

JR.

A source, ino has furnished reliable iniormation in

the past, advised on March 17, 1958, that Dr. King spoke at

Club somewhere in Los

Los Angeles

angeles on the artarnoon of

March 16, 1853.

There ha raceived donations for the Washington

Spring Project in the amount of 56, 000, in cash and an undis-:

closed amount in checks.

The "Los

Angeles. Times"; a daily newspaper publishad

in Los Angeles, California, in its issue of narch 17, 1903.

carried an article wnich quoted Dr. King while he was in nahaim,

stated that the spring demonstrations wich he will begin in

lashington, D. c., on April 22, 1900, are to appeal to the

conscienca

of congress to escalate the war on poverty and

racism and de-escalate the war

in Vietnam.

Officer J. Fredericks, Airport Datail, Los Angeles

Polier Dapartment, advised on March 18, 1953,

that Dr. ding

was

staying at the lyate house Hotal, 5547 West Century

Boulevard, Los Angeles, and would be leaving Los Angeles for

New Orleans and Memphis about noon on March 18, 1958, via

National Airlines.

The "Los Angeles Times"

at the Second Baptist

17, 1958.

He stated that it was time for soneone in

church In los ingeles On Sundalentriston

to admit thai a mistake has been made in Viatnam and thai this

nation is involvea in a senseless, reckless, inmoral and

mvinnable war.

"still a

and that Congrass, dominated

by the rural South "stands as a stubborn force in the way of

social progress.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property of the rBI

and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to

•be distributed outside your agency.

2*

CONFIDENTIR

NH 55152 Do0Id:32989579 Page 1

1383

---

## Page 5

UNITED STA

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

Los Angeles,

California

March 20, 1963

in Erply, Picase Hirfer 80

File No.

100-57229

Title

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Character

Reference

SECURITY MATTER - C

Letterhead memorandum dated

and captioned as above:

All sources (except any listed below), whose identities

ale concealed in rcferenced comunication have furnished reliable

Inforecion In the past.

This document contalno noiphre preommendations nor conclusione of the Fill. ll la she property

if the Till and is louned lo your arenay: ll and lin contrule are not lu be dislured outsia

your ajency.

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 5

---

## Page 6

"IT YASH

CC

CONZUNCATIONS SEC.

APR 3 1968

TELELPE

FBI HEMPHIS

to provide picn

crypto sisten

URGENT

4-3-67

TO DiRECTOR

FROM MEMPHIS (157-1092) 2P

Racial Mitter

SANITATIOW WORKERS STRIKE, MEMPHIS, TENN.,

•Fir

RE ME TEL APRIL TWO SIXIYLIGHI

FOLLOWING IS SUUMARY OF APRIL TWO ACTIVITIES.

- 140 г

: ro

MEI.

Mir.

Mr. Truline

Tale. Zoom

Listairo

Sco Gangy

.c.M

LI. E. H. ARKIN,. MEMPHIS PD, INSPECTIONAL. BUREAU ADVISED APRE

outside

document

TWO, LAST THAT LARRY PAYNE'S BODY WAS INTERRED FOLLOWING FUNERAL

res

WITH ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED INDIVIDUALS

IN ATTENDANCE.

NO INCIDENTS

REPORTED.

ARKIN ADVISED THAI APPROXIMATELY SIXIY SANITATION WORKERS

.. PARCHED DOWNTOWM MEMPHIS AFTERNOON OF APRIL TWO, LAST.

NO

approval of.then

content may

lammittee.

prepared in

response. 2o.

UNUSUAL INCIDENTS REPORTED..

•ESSTERN AIRLINES ADVISED MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., ALONG WITH

RALPH D. ABERNATHY, BERNARD LEE, AND ANDREW

ARRIVE BE.; TE! FIFTEEN AM APRIL THREE, FROM ARLANE

YOUNG SCHEDULE TO

1066

NOT RECORDED

• A SCURCE ADVISED INAT AT A PRESS: CONFERENCE SOS GCHYBORNES

TEMPLE APRIL TUO, SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SELC)

REPRESENTATIVES STATED THAT NIGHTLY MASS STRIKE-SURPORT MEETINGS

disclosed to unauthorized person-

Imitat

official proceedings by

request and is not for dissemi

WILL BE RESUMED NIGYT OF APFIL THREE, NEXT WITH KING AS THE FEATURED

SPEAKER. • MASS MARCH

! TO BE HELD FRIDAY, APRIL FIVE,

NEXT AND

ALLEGEDLY WILL TWO

WDE. CHILDREN.

END PAGE. ONE.

my c And d72b89

¡clucca in Icitor. to Tristo Hongo

---

## Page 7

PAGE TWO

LI. APKIN ADVISED NEMPHIS CITY, OFFICIALS ARE CONSIDERING

SEEKING A COURT INJUNGEION PROHIBITING ANY MASS MARCH. LED BY

KING OR AN INJUNCTION SPECIFYING CONDITIONS UNDER: WHICH A

MARCH COULD TAXE PLACE.

CAPTAIN Jo G. RAY, MEMPHIS PD, INSPECTIONAL BUREAU ADVISED LATE

PM APRIL TWO, LAST INAT ONLY MINOR INCIDENTS OF BRICK THROWING AND •

SMALL SATHERINGS OF INDIVIDUALS REPORTED. RAY ADVISED NO MAJOR

DISTURBANCES OR ANY UNUSUAL INCIDENTS OF VIOLENCE REPORIED IN LATE

PM APRIL TWO, LAST OR EARLY AN APRIL THREE, INSTANI.

END

BI WASH DO

700.

C.C:

in ind

WW 55152 •RodEd/33989579 Paye'7

---

## Page 8

liC:

дo prone scan

20 C

FBI MEMPHIS

"::"

TOGENT 4-5-5050

TO DIRFCTOR AND NEW YOR".

FROM FISHPHIS 157-1092

2P

SALTATION WORKERS SIRIKE, MENPHIS, TENN., RM.

FEDRESEYTAIIVES OF EASTERN AIRLINES ADVISED REV. MARTIN

FASTER" AIRLINES ADVISED REVO CART TAYE

•ING, JR., AND SCLC STAFF. MEMBERS DOROTHY COTTON,

urcintio

ANDREY dO YOUNG, BERWARD LEE AND RALPH D. ABERNATHY ARRIVED

ADAPILE URC! ATLANA, GAO NO RETURN OR OUIGOING RESERVALIOIS

FOR ANY OF ABOVE KNOWN AT THIS TIME.

100-/060

A SOUPCE ADVISED THAT STRATEGY. MEETING HEL

NOT RECORDED

LAS? ATTENDED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF COMMUNITY ON THE MOV

FOR FRUALITY (CONE), THE MINISTERIAL GROUP IN MEMPHIS SUPPORTING

SENCINTTON STRIKE, BY REPRESENTATIVES OF SCLC.S

SPOKESMAN Fes

WHICH WIS HOSEA VILLIANS, AND BY REPRESENTATIVES DE AMERICAN

marance

SEDERATICN DE SCUNTY, SIATE AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOVEES, SPOKESTEN

BEINE. WILLIAM LUCY AND JESSE EPPS, FIELD REPRESENTATIVES

THEREDF. AT THIS STRATEGY MEETING, THE MASS MARCH ORIGINALLY

SCHEDULED FOR APRIL FIVE NEVT TO BE LED BY KING WAS RE-SCHEDULED

FOR MONDAYS

GORIL FIGHT, REASCH PEING THAT UNION REPRESENTATIVES

This document is prepared in response so in renest and is not for dies

anting staine yor Committee.

¿cause and the content may not be disclosed to unuuthonzei person-

nil wi out the express approval of the FBl.

35152: DecId: 32989579 Page 8

---

## Page 9

FEEL THAT STAIRE HAS BECOME A RACIAL ISSUE AND THAT THERE IS

DEFINITE MESO FOR A MORE UNIFIED SUPPORT BY UNION PECPLE

ASSURITE MORE ACTIVE ROLES IN STRATECY AND DECISION. EPPS

IS ARRANGINE THROUCH UNKNOWN UNION CERICIALS TO BRING TWO

CHARGERED PLANE LOADS OF "UNION PEOPLE," MANY OF WHO WILL..

BE OF WHITE RACE, FROM NEW YORK CITY AREA DUE TO ARRIVE MEMPHIS

SONETICE APRIL SEVEN NEXT, AND THAT EFFORTS WILL BE NADE TO

PLACE AS MANY WHITES AS POSSIBLE IN THE FRONT OF THE NASS

MARCH. SOURCE CHE ADDED KING SCHEDULED TO HAVE STRATEGY

MEETING WITH ABOVE GROUP AT NOCH APRIL THREE AND TO DELIVER

ADDRESS AT MASS SUPPORT RALLY MASON TEMPLE, NIGHT APRIL THREE.

NEW YORS AT NEW YORKS WILL IHROUGH LOGICAL SOURCES

INCLUDING AIRPORI OFFICIALS DETERMINE SPECIFICS OF GROUP

OR GROUPS WHICH MAY BE LEAVING NEW YORK AREA TO COME TO NEMPHIS

TO PARTICIPATE IN MASS MARCH AND RELATED SIRIKE SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.

ADVISE MEMPHIS AND BUREAU OF POSITIVE INFORMATION BY TELETYPE.

AIRMAIL COPY TO ATLANTA.

END.

NH 55152 "1

Docid: 32989579 Page 9

---

## Page 10

19848.1911911

This document in momm

natio

manatise

to your request and is not for dissem.

se 23 mated to opaz proceedings by

inal; not be disclosed to unauthorized person

Rel Willi i tigress approval.of the FBI .

Date:

1/2/68

Tronsmit tir following in

Via

(i'gpe in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or iction of Hailing)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissen"

Its use is limited to official proceedings

nel without the express approval of the FBI

Bufile 157-8428

Arfile 157-2024

024114/

ReiTtels to Bureau 3/30 and 31/63

captioned

"WASHINGTON

SPRING PROJECT, BIT"

"HARTIN LUTHER KLIE;

JR.,

Sil - C" and

nation outsis von Committee.

your Comma e unt the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized perso.

TO:

DIRECTOR,

TBI

FROI:

SAC

ATLANTA

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

Sii - C

Burile 100-106570

ATtile 100-5586

WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECT

LESBOY:

ACST:

R!1

OST: SEC. SOR:

TO UNK

4/.8/6.85

4/2/68 captioned "HASHINGTON SPRING PROJECT,

RM. "

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and eight

copies, for Chicago two. for hemphis two, for New Yock three..

and fo: WEO ITO, Of LI.

Source

Souve reteriod to is i

SourcE

source utilized to characterize TAMeS BeVET.

sourco utilizod to characterite STAVLLY LAVISCH iS:

Source

some utilized to characterize MOSKI WILLIAMS iS i

Sources

utilized to characterize HUNTER PIITS O'DELL 2J'C

1:09999

and

sourcE

18147

4o Bairsu

Ene, Sakaloron

(3 - 100-700570)

BREC 36.

12 - 157-81281

2- Стісто !

21

(R'D

2i=

Morphis

Her fortr

:??

11 - 1CH.111ISOI (STINUES LEVISON

?!?.

=------

.. is

1400.9?

:1-1.9

199-2440 49.85E ANCTRON

•1:"

:....

TH 55152. Dola 298957 Tane 10

---

## Page 11

740.6006

AT 157-2921

sOurCE

I HITCH ME COMPROMISE IIIS SECURITY.

INFORRATION MONICS RY CamEL MUST BE CLASSITIED

COMPERETTE LA

FOREICIS RESTHICTION AND CLASSIFICAT: ON

ARE TESTITTED SECHISE THIS SOURCE ENJOYS AN EXTILELY DELICATI

MELAS TONSHIP WITH SOLO. SOUrCE

The enclosed Lul has

been classified Secret

SOurcE

because it contains information furnishad by m

is felt this classification is necessary in order not to

jeopardize the valuable position of the informant in furnishing.

information of this nature.

.:

: 2

HH 55152 DocId: 32989579

Page 11

---

## Page 12

1N.

'O STATES DEPANTNNNT O'..

FEDER

BUNEAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Megely, Please Hefer 80

File No.

SECRET

Atlanta,

Ceorgia

April 2, 1968

MARTIN LUTHER KING, IR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECT

RACIAL, MATTER

On April 1, 1968, a confiiential source advised

he understood that following the racial disturbance which

occurred in Hemphis, Tennessee, on Narch 28, 1963, Reverend

Hartin Luther King, Jy., Presidents

Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (SCiC) called & neeting of

several

SCIC Executive officers which was hold March 30, 1968, at

the Boenezer Baptist Church, Atlanca.

imong those attending

this meeting were James Bevel, SChc Executive Staff

membar;

desse jackson, northern Director, Eroject Bicaobaste.

Mosco milian, Direuror of voucr lagistration and politicat

Education, SCIC; and Stanley Levison.

Reverend King arranged this meeting for the purpose

of reviaving the recent cistuncance 11 Memphis and evaluating

the offect thereof upon SCle's conterpisted Washingron Spring

Project (WSP).

Revererd

King opened this meeting by again

stressing is those present nor greatly conserned he was as

to

the effect of the kenpis distarbonoe on his image as & civil

nights loader and the position oí couc as a leading civii rigbts

organization.

This entire matter apparently upset Reverend King

to the extent he found

in desirabic to excuse hinsalt fron this

mooting shortly after its comnencowont.

source was inable to

advise whethei Reverend King returned to the meeting.

This meeting lasted most of the day and concluded with

a decision on

the part of those present that SCLC officials

would

immediately return to lemphis, 'e organize the striking Sanitation

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is

the property of the fBl and

is loaned

to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed

outside your agunzy.

NATIONAL SECURITY. INFORMATION

SECREY

Unauthorized Disclosure

TROLD T

subject to Criminal Sanctions •

machred From Antomatic

Downgrading and Declassification

155152

16Id: 32989579 Page 12

---

## Page 13

SECRET

MARTIN LUTTER KING, JR.

WASILINGTON SPRING PROJECE

Workers in that community particularly along the lines of

nonviolence and subsequently conduct a scaceful demonstration

in thai connunity. Having accomplished this SCLC will have

shown to the naiion it can conduct a poaceful demonstration

aid therefore the way should be clear for it to proceed with

it's WSP.

2

SECRET

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECTET

JAMES BAYAL

2946 263 6679878 63

present at the difions of tus Usa

Club in Chicago 1000. Disaste

time

contering arouss resotime dos

NOISE: 22661420101 453t

the Attornay General if

the waisa.

P0дt9s 2679427

label tha Dabais Gias so & Cronic:

Movaka!

in conversation, 8tat0d that as 5:6.1

2axy 13a0r01. 312s

notification, and bage abund fice paris

se notes 13

vas engaged.

B3 COld 4h56 1f 42: 0229 Ga: 717

real progran of koia der the parpir:

4162 7301: 7911

answer for tho clans despare any.

37039 0501102

Ian.

anst present agrest tact too sital or tus

935425216/27. 16/27.95.49

to underaina tus 41711 rights

2o7.0.010.

72 02

1351

the reseat hourings dacs ie:

riodes

Only a bazanzing TiLA 10016

121.

Stass 42 162

Southern 912:21162 160302662

484.06

tas 2341

target.

200:02 8x0212

of this sension LicE L9 193 S

& 4an3154.

te this

BINEL TSE OvarLaard Go F0ply 200: 95927

should ba.

yet, but sian aisy to?.

1205 Fit: 611

3

SECRET

HW 55152 DocId:32989579 • Page 14

118.4

-" *

-raw

---

## Page 15

1 |

SECRET

VI.E.B. DU BOIS CIUSS DE MERICA (DEA)

A source advised that on Octobor 26-27, 1963,

confcrence of menbais of the Communist Party, USA (CPUSI),

including national functionaries, not in Chicaco, Illirois,

for

the purpose of setting in motion

forces for the establishrant of

a new national inrsist-orionted youth organization thich rould

hunt for the nost peaceful transition to socinlisn. The delegates

were told that it would ba reasonahla to assure that the young

socinlisis aitracted into this ner organization rould eventually

pass into the CP itself..

A second source has advised that the founding convention

the new jouth organization was held fron June 19-21, 1964, at

150 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California, at rhich tire

the nane i E.B. Dubois Clubs of Anerica (ICh) mas adopted.

Approximately

500 dalegates fron throughout the United States

attended this

• convention.

ZAGARELL, CPUSA Youth Directos, stated that in legro communities

the Party still supported the plan to build "loft" socialist

centers and to solidily the Party base through the Dei.

source also advised in saptember, 196s, that DiMIlL rUSti, CPUS:

National Organizational Secretary, stated the Party believes the

Des should hive a vorki:g-class outloo! and be a nass organization

savorabia lo socialisn, socialist countries ¿no arsisa, and

in

April, 196i, advised that GUS Hiw, COUSA General Saciotaiy,

Indicated the DCA primary emphasis should be on developing nass

resistense io the draft.

the Third jational Convention of the did hold in lew York, dai

Yorli, from Sapienber 3-10, 1957.

A fourth source advised during August, 1967, that.

SARVIS THER i5 a membar of the National Connitica of the CPusI.

A fifth source advised on Saptender 21, 1967, that tie

• headquarters of the DlA is locited at 34 lest 1ith Street, de:

York, ticu toil.

SECRET

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 15

---

## Page 16

SECRET.

M.E.B. DE BOIS CUES

OF CHICAGO (DECI

Oa lay 3, 1905:

a source adrisca that or jure

30: 1564,

a group of joung peocls vic atterday the

icunding convention ci

the l'.E.B. DuBois Clubs ci Anerica (ICA, set

in Chicago and

ajopted a starchert of furrose and constitution forning the DEC

as an affiliata of tha national ECA.

A second scurde advised on May 1,

1967, tiat DEA

chartered cluce in as Chicago ares are the

side

DEC and

the torch-Sida ücê, masther of wich currenzis mirtain a

headovartsre.

There is no central beadquaisers for the DeC

and there are to anchartered ciuba in this z=za.

Tro second source idvired thai the majoring of ICC

members are

sled members of the ce.

During the past joar Do? anthrity has baer simes:

norexistent.

÷5

SECREr.

WH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 16

---

## Page 17

in

SECRET

STANIEY LEVISON

A confidential source advised in Ayril, 1964,

that SAiLEY LEVISON aS

& Lacict nonbai o1

Communist

Party (C), USa, in July, 1953.

FoREigN Intelligence Operatron

angering

SECRET

WH 55152 DocId: 32989579

Page 17

---

## Page 18

SECRET

HOSEA MILITANS

employee of the sonchore Carrasian Leadership Conference,

(SCIC), Escion, New Tons Office, wile discussing several

SCLE persoralities with cre CONVIE CAIPELL, referrad to

WILLIALS •

BAILY said WILLIAM had mentioned to her

(date not specified) that on a join necesion (date not

spociliad) HuMan INSIS o'Dul Lad toid kim more about

polities than be Could rEsi.

•NN 55152 DobId:32989579 Page 18

---

## Page 19

HUNTER PITAS OSIEIT

In July, 1932, IWan PiXeS O'DE, also known

aS JACK IT: O'ERGI,

was corsiasses ty the concaist Party,

USA, as & Lamber of its Macierol Coaz1a0e.

1983, ha woull rot, go back to she seuthern Christian

Lendershin Contenance on the sand bunis baccuse he is nov

a "let parson" arl it tooy comot secope han the ig he

SECRET

NH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 19

---

## Page 20

UN!

TES DEPANTMENT OF

•EDERAL

BUREAU.OF INVESTIGA..ON

: An Repoly, P'inase Refer 80

File No.

Title

Character

Referace.

Atlanta,

Georgia

April 2, 1968

HARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

HASHINETON SPRINE PROJECT

SECURITY MATTER - C

RACIAL MATTER

Atlanta Memsrandum dated and captioned

as above.

41].

sourcos (excops any listad bolor) those identities

are concealed in referenced communication have lurnished reliable

information in the past.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agensy; it and its contenis are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

H 55152 DocId: 32989579 . Page 20

---

## Page 21

des Reply, Ploaro Refer, 10

Fie No.

17 1

UNITE: TAT

DEPARTMENT OF JUS SE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATION

SECRET

* Asant, 2, orga

2, 1968

HARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SECURITY MATTER - C

SANITATION WORKENS STRIKE

MEMPHIS, TENNESSET

RACIAL NATTER

On April 1, 1968, a confidential source advised

that as of that date

Mosea Willians, Director De Voter

Registration and Yolitical Education, Southern Christizn

Leadership Conference (SCLC); Jesse Jackson, Horihern

Director, Project Breadbasket, SCLC; James Bevel, SCLC

Ixecutive staff member; and James Orange, SCLC Field

Representatire, "ere in Henphis, Tennesses, for Tha

purpose of reorganicing striking Sanitation workers in

that ciüy along the lines of SCLC's philosophy oi nonviolence.

The aforementioned SCLC officials expected Reverend

Hartin Luther King, JI., President, SCLC, and Falph D:

hbernathy, Vice President and Treasurer,

SCLC, to arrive in

Memphis on April 2, 1958.

In the near future, (date not known),

Reverend King intended to lead a nonviolent demonstration of the

Kenphis Sanitation orkers.

Chis document contains neither recommendations nor concisions

of the FBI.

It is the property of tha rei

is loanes to

vour agency: it and its contents are not to be distribute

outside your agency.

SECRET

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

GROUP I

•Unauthorized Disclosuré

Excluded From Automatic

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

• Downgrading and Declassification

XEROX

APA

C70 1968

100-106-670-3290

1H954052

SEPId: 32979079

---

## Page 22

SERE

HOSTA WELT-TANS

advisa at do get 3, 1d cede del source

then an

engloyed o: tra fortrera

tile discussing sevaral

SCLE persoralities with cos Coasta CAlzaEL, referred to

(data sot specisio)) diet on i raisa caesaios (Rate ROS

specifind, razar Fi23S O'nuth Lad 101d Lim nore about

polities 1a2 L2 C-11 red.

HH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page

22

---

## Page 23

SECRET

HUNTER PITIS OTEIL

In July;

25 JACK H. O'E,

lest, enera pies opera, als, known

was corsidaned ly the Cormicist Party,

USA, as a ianer of its Racist Corridica.

HABER PISTS O'DALL SOLO RARYA SHINI DESenDes 27,

: 1953, ha woull not go back to the Saughern Christian

Leadeiskin Conteransa en tha some basis bacause he is now

a B79ft personi and i1 4h57 Cornot sucept hin She mog he

Is then shey 1111 Lave 10 Longes abous Lin.

3

SECRET.

17H° 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 23

---

## Page 24

SALES BATTL

SECRET

BEVE, 10 early Maron,

1950 tag chiervod to bo

present at the citions of the Poet Bide 5.3.1. DiDads

Club in Chicago (Cos).

niacurried dead place

at thig time

contcrity around raretion dos reens notiaicatina that

the Attormy Carenal ci tho Triusd Bratsy incorded 10

Jabal tho Iossis Class sa a Commist Ironi. BIVE,

notification, and lapi shond tes nors 12 wich 20

nas ongogol. ile loit that is dan euroda chain tavo

roal progisa ci hold dos ine poople, tesa iacule woals

ansver for the clabs cospita an obste asgilsa to thes.

Lost prosect agreat sint the sitack on tao:

PIES 40 4E9

to underuite too offal rights torages.

tho scooni shazings imo mes cacroisios 1a bhis constry mos

only a bogiming shich would loud in a full attest on des

Southong Mrission Landorabir 1473380030 600189, 520 1391

ВІЗ ВІ ТОЛВ ІЛКОК

204629

during the coerzo

ot this disoussion tia: to pas art a Fournist, 232 50 this

BIn, vas aparbend to reply thee cooey thinking Averizas

should ba, 2o stassa. that

yoi, but wash thay so, they will aii so soctatists.

SECRET'

we Base Tead: 320579 Made IT•

---

## Page 25

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reply, loase Rejer 10

• No.

Atlanta,

Ceorgia

April

2, 1968

Title

Character

Roference

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

SANITATION WORKERS STRIKE

MENPRIS, TENNESSEE

SECURITY MATTET. - C

RACIAL MATTER

Atlanta lenorandum dated and captioned

as above.

AIl sourcos (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenceà communication have furnished soliable

Information in the past:

This document contains neitker recommendations nor conclusions

of the fBI..

It is the property of the fBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contencs

are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 25

---

## Page 26

SECRET

M.F.B. DU LOIS CLUES OF AMERICA (DIA)

A source advised that on October 26-27, 1963, a

conference of membars of the Communist Party, USA (CPUS1),

including national functionaries, met in Chicago, Illinois, for

the purfose of satting in notion forces for the establishment of

a new national Marxist-oriented youth organization which would

hunt for the nost peaceful transition to socialism.

The delegates

vere told that it would be reasonabie to assure that the yourg

socialists atracted into this new organization would eventually

pass into the CP .itself..

A. second source has advised that the founding convention

for

the new youth organization. was held fron June 19-21, 1964, at

3.50 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, Californin, at which time

the name ü.E.B. DuBois

Clubs of finerica (ICA) mas adopted.

Approxinately 500 delegates from throughout the United States

attended. this convention:

The second source advised in Septenber, 1966, that MIKE

ZAGARELL, CPUSA Youth Director, stated that in Nogro communities

the Party still supported the plan to build "left" socialist

centers and to solidify the Party base through the dal.

This

source also advised in septenber, 1966, that DiXIEl. RUBIn,

CPUS.A

National Organizational Secrotary, stated the Party believes the

resistance to the draft.

A third source advised in September, 1967, that Jaryl!

Lyner was cleated chajinan of the Loá on September 10, 1907, a1

the Third rational Convention o1

the DCh hold in New York, New

Yor!:, frosi Saptember 8-10, 1967.

fourth sourca advised during August, 1907, that

• JARVIS TYNER is a member of the National Committce of the cpus:.

A fifth source advised on September 21, 1967, that the

• headquarters of the del is located at 34 lest 17th Stroct, New

York,

NiCK YOrk.

5.

SECRET

NH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 26

---

## Page 27

SECRET

F.5.B. DU BOIS CLUES

OF CHICASO

(DOC)

On May 3, 1965. = scares a0!1392 15a1 en Jura 30, 1961,

group of joing peocle wio atterded the fcurding convention of

the X'.E.B, DUBOiS ClUS CI AGESIOR (ICA) mei in Chicago and

adopted a starchert of purpose and constitution forming the DEC

as an affiliata of tha national sci.

A SECONd

source aarised co day ,

19€7,

chartered siübe in the Chicago area

re tis

DCC and

the Norch Side Do, mither of which currenis mirtair:

hcadquart:r=.

There is no central beziliaiter. for the DeC

and there are no unchartares clube ia this araa.

Ine second source idvised that the majority of DCC

nonbers ans also sanbero of the CE.

Durire he fast joan DES aotivity has been aimcst

nonexistent.

SECHET

HH 55152 DooId:32989579

Page '27

---

## Page 28

no Reply, Please Refer lo

ile No.

Bufile 100-106670

UNITED STAT

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INFESTIGATION:

New York, New York

April I, :1963

SECiLi

Martin Luther King,

Security Matter - C

JI.

. i

A confidential source, who has furnished reliable

intormation in the past, learned on march 29, 1965, that on that

date, Stanley Levison and Martin Luther King, Ir. discussed

the position which king has found hinself in as a result of the

violence that oicurred in Memphis, Tennessee, an March 29, 1963,

at the time when King led a march

through downtown Memphis. King

told Levison that he feels they have to face the fact thates

from a public relations

point of vie: and every other way,

are in serious trouble"

He referred to the lashington D.C.

Spring campaign, known as the Poor People's Campaign, and said

as far as it is

concerned it is in trouble. King noted that it

will be much more difficult to recruit people for the washingten

campaign now because they (the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference) (SCLC) are recruiting non-violent people and these

people will hold back if they think they will be in a campaign

• that is going to be taken over by violent elenents. King staüed

that this is not a failure for the SCLC because it

has enough

of a progran to affirm its position but that it is a personal

setback for himself.

King continued that persons such as Roy Wilkens

•(lead of the National Association for the Advancement di Colorad

People) and Adam Clayton Powell, and Negroes who are influenced

by the press, will now feel that he, king, is firished,

that his

non-violence

is nothing, that no one is listening to it.

King

reiterated that they have had a great public relations

setback as

far as his image and leadership are concerned.

SECRET

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

THiS COCUMENT CONTANS MAKER

ChOi? 1

mcluded fren autoa.tic

downerading and

dachasification

0HE T 41106 1011

AGACY MO M C:7S446

NOT TU LE WISTANCIENOUTSIDE

10-1666903211

• H7 55152.

5is2" poeTa: 32989579 Page 28

---

## Page 29

SECRET

•Martin Luther King, Jr.

Levison attempted to dissuade King from this point

of view stating that it would be true only if King accepts

"their"

definitic:

He added that he feit it is a proround error King

18 making..

King noted that he did not accept it himself but that

others will.

Levison retorted that people would accept it for.

a: few days, !

but, if events prove otherwise, will not accept it.

"King noted that events will not prove otherwise unless

they think soberly through this period. He said that somenow he had

to reaffirm what the press will refuse to affirm.

He referred to

the hemphis incident stating that they all know it was just a

few people who were involved.. He added that it was a failure

of the leadershiy in Memphis. King informed levison that persons

Who vere responsible for the violence came to see him on the morning

of March 29, 1958. He said these persons were fighting the

leadership in Memphis, the men who ignored and neglected then,. the

men who would not give them any attention, who ordered their

telephones cut off.

King added that he had no knowledge of all this

that the

persons

responsible for the violence were too sick to see

that what they were doing during the violence was hurting him, king,

more than it could hurt the local preachers.

King related that he was so upset and shocked over. the

• Hemphis violence that he was going

to announce a personal fast

as & means of appealing to the semphis leadership, as well as those

who participated in the violence,

to come to him in a united

frunt to take up the "cudget" and get on with the movement.

• • He said he felt this kind of spiritual move would be a way of

mifying the movement, of transtorming a minus into a plus. He

added that he l'ecls their Washington campaign is doomed.

was not. correct. Levison said he was concerned over the

Levison attempted to convince king that his reasonapf

King was placing non-violence in because king was saying that

he must have 100, adherence: to non-violence hich is an impossibility.

King commented that they could not get 100, adherence but

that they must face the fact thatariot broke out in the ranks of

the march, that "these fellows"

• In the line of march, would

HH 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 29

rem.

---

## Page 30

SECRET

Martin Luther King, Jr.

Jump out, do something, and then come back to hide within

the group. King said he is a symbol of non-violence and

that the press is not going to say what Levison said. - He

sajd the symbol will be weakened and it will put many Negroes

In doubt.

he said ne must do someching that is & poweriul

act to unify forces and refute the press.

Levison stated that if it had this result he would

agree but that he is bothered by the idea that King would be

o2 the pa b

accepting the logic of the press that if king can control 99%,

and not the 1j who are violent, he is a failure. He said they

must find i way in which they do not accept this otherwise king

will never be able to do anything unless he always spiracualty.

reaches a level where he hypnotizes every Negro alive.

..:.

King questioned how he could say that they can

control the planned demonstrations in Washington, D.C. and at the

same time conclude they are going to have 1% violence.

Levison counseled that king can say that he can control

his followers. and is not undertaking

• to control everybody else.

He said King could take the position thai his follo:ers, are non-

violent and will do what they must do.

They agreed to discuss the matter in depthat a meeting

• in Atlanta, Georgia in King's church cifice on the morning oI

March 30, 1953.

The samé source advised on March 31, 1963, that on

that date Stanley Levison commented on the meeting held in Atlanta,

Georgia, on March 30, 1963. Levison's comments included the

following:

At the Atlanta meeting they examined the whole Memphis

Incident and came up with a new approach.

"Tie are going back to

Memphis.

lie are going to prove that you can have mass action

in the. streets":. Martin Luther King had decided not to go

back to lenphis and not 'to go to lashington (for the Poor People's

campaign. It was the determination of the (SCLC staif that

=3.

SECRET

WH 55152 DogId: 32989529.

Pate 30-

у та -04.

---

## Page 31

Martin Luther King, Jr:

changed King's thinking: King is going back to Memphis

on Tuesday (April 2

1968) and there will be a big march on

Friday (April 5, 1968). The Memphis Incident was caused ly

"a handfui of kids"

and it could have been controlled by "our

guys" (the SCLC) had they been there.

He, Levison, made the point that they could not let

couple of kids". keep "mass action" from being their weapon.

As for controlling the Washington, D.C. demonstrations,

King knows he can control the youth.

What has to be done is

go to the high schools and tell them what the establishment

wants then to do.

Once

they grasp this there is no chance of

anything happening. What they (the SCLE) are afraid of in

hashington is a deuble cross from Stokley Carmichael and the

but to be non-violent themselves.

are going to go on because to be able to march inthe streets is

"our most important too?" and are not going on the streets because

It may start violence, "why do we have to be afraid of riots'

It is their problem not ours"

The Atlanta meeting was good because it shows how

much militancy there is in the SChC.

A contidential source,

who has furnished

reliable information in the past, advisea

In April, 1954, that Stanley Levison va.

a secret member of the Communist. Party,

United States of America (CP;

July, 1963.

FoRErgei INtelligeucE

OpERATIoN-Ougoing

SECRET

"iH' 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 31

---

## Page 32

!)..

ViA

-STYPE

CaRl 10a2

i Do provide He!

EMCIPHERED

crypto system

URGENT 4-1-688a

TO DIRECTOR 160-106675 AND MEMPHIS (CODE)

ATT. DOMESTIC INTELLIGECE DIVISION

FROM NEW YORK 102-136585 1P

31r.

sir.

joilodimna

211.

Miss

aliss ta:

.

MARIIN LUTHER KINGS URES SM - C. 00 - ATLANIA

SAURCE

MEREDICA

SOURCE WHOSE INFORMATION IS TO BE CLASSIFIED "SECRET">

ADVISED THAT STANLEY LEVISON STATED THAT AS A RESULT

OF MEETING IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA ON MARCH THIRTY NINETEEN

SIXTYEIGHT, MARIIN LUTHER KING WILL RETURN TO MEUPHIS

door

ON_TUESDAY CAPRIL TWO, NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHI) AND THAT

THERE WILL BE A BIG MARCH ON FRIDAY CAPIL FIVE, NINETEEN

SIXTYEIGHT).

:COF: SENT 10 ATLANTA REGULAR BAILE

108-106670-3274

END

FJB

F31 WASH D C

FTBaSiL

6 APR 1: 1958

nation outside your Committee.

This document is propored in response need into

your Commice and the content may not be disclos. to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

will

APR

AI

{"",

• tin in"

55152. DocId: 32989579 Page 42

DELOACH TOR THE DIRECTOR

---

## Page 33

FBI WASH DE

.::

Sir.

FBI,

/EMPHIS

URGENT 4-1-68 MI

¡TO DINECTOR

FROM MENTHIS 15 1092)

Miss

12.

SANITATION WORKERS STRINE, MEMPHIS, TENNO, RA PREIN MATEILE

RE ME IELS MASCH THIRTYONE LASI.

ON APRIL ONE INSTANI, INSPECIOR GO PO IINES,. INSPECTIONAL

BUREAU, MEMPHIS PO, ADVISED FOLLOWING MENSERS OF SOUTHERN

LEADERSHIP COUFERENCE STAFF CURRENILY IN MEMPHIS REGISTERED AT

LORRADNE MOTEL: ReB. COITONREADER, JAMES ORANGE,. REV. JESSE

JACKSON AND JAMES LÁ BEVEL: ALSO REGISTEREDIN THIS NO TEL'ÖVER

VỆC END OF HARK THIRTY AND THIRTYONE WERE CLARES ASSES JOHN

BÜRBELL SMITH AND CHARLES STEVEN BALLARD, ALL NOPISCOHANE AS RECENTLY

IS FEBRUATY SIXTEEN LAST ADNITTED IO REPRESENTIVES-@f% BEING

ON GOVERNG BODY DE SLACK: ORGANIZING FOVER (BOF ATS OVERALL BLACK

POWER GROUP IN MENPHIS WHICH THEY SAY IS AFFILIATED WITH STUDENT. HON

VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE. •

TIMES AUDED THAI AT TWO THIRTY P.M. APRIL ONE INSTANI,

APPROXILATELY FOUR FIVE ZERO SUPPORTERS OF MEMPHIS SANIIATION SIRIKE

CARRYING PLACARDS MARCHED FROM CLAYBORN TEMPLE SINGLE FILE TO MAIN

SIRBET AUD CITY HALL, NOMPHIS,

THEREAFTER. RETURNING TO TEMPLE. THE?

END PACTIONS

Did drined do? -35

to tire

in1619 times

fil

11 5 1008

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for

dissenz?-

amipt outsire, your Committee.

Its use is limited to official nroceedinas ba

'Conm"''e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

HH

55152

Doc Id: 32989579

Fare 03 out the capress approval of the FBI.

---

## Page 34

PAGE, THO

VERE NO. INCIDENTS AND NO ARRESTS.

• A SOURCE ADVISED THAI HOSEA L. WILLIAMS, DIRECTOR OF VOTERS

REGISTRATION, SCLO; JAMES L. BEVEL IN CHARGE OF SCLE "NON VIOLENT

ACTION"; JESSE JACKSON, DIRECTOR OF "OPERATION REDBASKET ; SOLC;

dOT. JOHNSON, THE MISSISSIPPI ORGANIZER OF THE SOLO, "WASHINGION

SPRING PROJECT"; JAMES ORANGE AND ROS. COTTONREADER, BOTH FIELD

STAFF

RENDERS SCLE HELD A PRESS CONFERENCE, MEMPHIS APRIL ONE INSTANT

IN THE COMPANY OF REV. JAMES MORRIS LAWSON, JRO, REPRESENTING COMMUNITY

ON MOVE FOR EQUALITY (COND, THE MEMPHIS MINISTERIAL GROUP LEADING

STRIKES FIELD REPRESENTATIVES OF STRIKING AMERICAN FEDERATION OF

STATES COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES ALSO IN ATTENDANCE. ALONG

VITH CHARLES CASSAGE OF BOP. WILLIAMS STATED THAI REV. MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JRE WOULD ARRIVE IN NEMPHIS APRIL TWO NEXI, TIME NOI SPECIFIED,

BUT SOLC WOULD CONDUCT DAILY MARCHES

AND DEMONSTRATIONS IN MElPHISS

THAT À PASS MARCH WOULD BE HELD APRIL FIVE NEXT TO BE LEAD BY

KING AND THAT KING WOULD POSSIBLY REMAIN IN MENPHIS UNTIL APRIL

FIVE NEXI. JAMES ORANGE WILL INSTITUTE A SERIES OF SCLE "WORK SHOPS" .

IN VARIOUS CHURCHES. WILLIAYS STATED THAI THE SIRIXE ACIIVITY IN

NOMPHIS WILL SE ESCALATED. JESSE JACKSON STATED THAT ALL MEMPHIS

MERCES WILL BE IMPLORED TO TRANSFER BANK ACCOUNTS AND INSURANCE

ACCOUNTS FRON WHITE INSTITUTIONS TO BLACK INSTITUTIONS AND THAT SCLE

END PAGE TWO

NH 55152 DocId:32989579 Pale 34:

---

## Page 35

PAGE ПНРЕЕ

WILL ORGANIZE NEGRO BUSINESSES TO TAKE OVER ALL NEGRO BUSINESS IN

COMUNITY AND THAT THESE GROUPS WILL "HAVE TA. SHAPE UR OR SHIP OUT"

WILLIANS DENIED SCLC IS ATTEMPTING TO "TAKE OVER" MEMPHIS, CLAIMED

SCLE HERE AT IRVITATION OF COME AND IS MERELY SERVING AS A CATALYST

AND IT IS "HERE TO UNITE BLACK POWER" •

: JAMES L. BEVEL STATED SCLO IN MEMPHIS TO SERVE AS A POLITICAL

PSYCHIATRISI AND THAT SCLE SEES MEMPHIS MAYOR HENRY LOEB AS A .

"SICK INDIVIDUAL". HE CLAIMED THAT WHITE RACISM SESPONSISLE FOR ALL

PROSLEMS IN MEMPHIS. HE CLAIMED THE CITY TRIES TO SETTLE PORSLEMS

WITH THE ARGY AND TANKS WIGN THE REAL PROBLEM IS POVERTY AND THAT

THE ARMY IS CALLED IN WHEN NEGROES LOOI WHEREAS THE WHITE RACE HAS

BEZN STEALING FROM THE NEGROES ECONOMICALLY FOR CENTURIES. SEVEL

CONCLUDED "VE UREQUIVOCALLY BELIEVE IN AND ADVOCATE BLAGK POWER".

DEPENDING

COSA-PAGE-ONE-LINE-ONE-IND-OTHER PLACES INT FOR WORE LIGHT

END

62s :

Fal WASH OC

TU CLAP

Lachicod in leticr to whito bousy le

nad literacy sanerale Dato ai

3.

HH 55152 ° DocId: 32989579

Page 35:

---

## Page 36

3-11.--10-6÷)

a.p

,..

.!".

Domestic Intelligence Division

'INFORMATIVE NOTE

Date -

- 3/30/59

Attachod relates to

attitudes of Martin Luther King

towards the disturbance in

Memphis, Tennessee, 3/29/68 and

his future activities.

Stanley

Levison santioned in the attached

is principal advisor to King

reported in past as secret

member of Communist Party.

Pertinent parts of

attached to be furnished white

House, Attorney General, and

interestea divisions of Department.

IFM: 2'sz,

Hem

1.6d)

123ser

This document is prepared in response to your request and us not for dissem

nation outside your Gommittee.

Its use is limited to offrial proceedings by

aur Comme and tie content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

nel without the express approval of the FBI .

NN 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 36

---

## Page 37

erupto pup

TOLETYPE

the d1939

ENCIPHERE

FBI NEW YORK

URGENT 3-1$-69L500

TO DIRECTOR 102-IEGGTO AND ATLANTA (CODE)

• ATLANIA VIA WASHINGION

ATTENTION DOMESTIC INTELLICENCE DIVISION

FROM NEW YORX 10B-136585

irtir..

1:ap2r..

d8r: Callidian..

Mr.

Crazad.

Mr. Mill

Gala

dir. Jinsun"

Tivel

Sir.

isuliar.

Tele. Her:

J5 IliaS-

Miss Gords-

ACRESE

0D: AI.

SOURCE

Are d2n99599.09

finia bie

SIDE CINFOR

NATION IO BE CLASSIFIED SECRETS ADVISED MARCH TWENTY

KINE, SIXTYEIGHI, MARTIN LUTHER KING JOLD STANLEY LEVISON

THEY MUST FACE FACI THAI FROM PUBLIC RELATIONS POINT OF

VIEN, THEY APE IN SERIOUS TEDUBLES AND IHAT WASHINGTON,

DC CARPAIEN IS IN TROUBLE.

KING SAID WILL BE DIFFICULT

TO RECRUIT PEOPLE NOW. REFERRING TO

REC-52

DE50-3211

XING SAID IT IS GREAT PERSONAL SET-BACK FOR HAS, A GREAI

sto treach

FURLIC RELATIONS SEI-BACK 'AS FAR AS HIS

LAGE AND LEADER

SHIP ARE CONCERNED.

KING SAID HE

G

APR

1983

CONSIDERED ANNOUNCING

PERSONAL FASI AS APPEAL IO NEMPHIS LEADERSHIP AS WELL AS

THOSE WHO PARIICIPATED

IN VIOLENCE, A

LAY OF UNIFYING

TEND PAGE ONE

IT

COPY BLUFT TO MR. TOLSON

Wid AN

This document is prepared in response to your request and is nos for issemi-

mating taise mour Committee.

Its use is limited to off

^ by

Were Cara

:??? the content may not be disclosed to wait..orivee persoir

nel without the express approval of the EBla

55152 DocId: 32989579

Page

---

## Page 38

PAGE TO

THE MOVEMENI. KING SAID HE FEELS WASHINGTON CAMPAIGN IS

DOOMED. LEVISON SAID HE COULD NOT DISAGREE WITH KING

MORE AND ATTEMPTED TO PERSUADE HIM THAI HE COULD NOI

EXPECT TO GET ONE HUNDRED PER CENT ADHERENCE, THAI KING

SHOULD NOI ACCEPT LOGIC OF PRESS THAT IF HE CAN CONTROL

PINETY WINE PER

CENT AND NOT ONE PEP. CENT, HE IS A FATLURE

LEVISON SAID KING'S FOSITION SHOULD BE THAI KING CAN

CONTROL HIS FOLLOWERS WHO ARE NON-VIOLENT. THEY AGREED

TO DISCUSS MATIER IN DEPTH AT ATLANTA MEETING MARCH THIRTY.

END

WACGEESERE R RELA!

FBI WASH DO FOR NP 2. X

it act

!"

!::i"

WH 15152 DocId: 32989579 Page 38

---

## Page 39

• :

UNITED STATUS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

March 29,

1968

In Repiy, P'icase linjer 10

rite No.

Bufile 100-106670

SC003

Martin Luther King,

Jr.

Security Matter - C

A confidential source, who has furnished reliable

information in the past, learned on March 28, 1958, that.

late on thai date, Stanley Levison and Martin Luther King, Jr.

discussed the iolence thai occurred in Memphis, Tennessce

on March 28,

1968, following King's leauerspip

of a protest.

march through downtown Memonis.

King indicated that he has

become so depressed over the developmonts in Memphis thet

he has considered calling off the Washingion March (his

self-described Poor People's Campaign, scheduled to begin in

Washington; D.C. on April 22, 1968).

.

Levison told King that his depression was aggravated

because he is physically exhausted as a result of his recent

strenuous program. ' He counseled king not to be on the defensi:e

over the events in Memphis. bus, on the contrary, should take

the position that the majority of people in the Memphis March

aid not join in the rioting that too! place, proving the

effectivenoss of King's leadershio and nis policy of non-violenco.

Levison

enphasized that the Washington Narch will be different

in that King will have orgenized this march and

his forces can

stress the importance of non-violence.

Levison suggested that

Securday morning (March 30, 1968) would be a better time to

the Nemphis incident rather thin

meeting on Friday night (Maich 29, 1908) because it will give

King time to rest.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminabraerions

THIS WENT CONTAINS XEITHE

10C010711 A 10 TOMOSS

OF THE MA. HI THE PERY

0I6 1H 086 11612 11011

NOC TOR CARRETED OUTSION

GAGER 1

Biclude from automatir

HH 55152 DooId: 32989579

100

-1066?0-

327

Manification

Page 39

WELCOURT

---

## Page 40

Martin Luther KIng, Jr.

King agreed-in every respect with, Levison's

evaluation.

The source also ascertained that, prior to conferring

with King, Levison spoke with the Reverend

Ralph Abernatny,

an aide of Dr. King's, who advised Levison that King has

cancelled a scheduled

appearance in Washington, D.C. on

March 29, 1968.

Abernathy also noted that King is scheduled

to be in Virginia on Saturday (March 30, 1968) but will

probably cancel that appearance.

Abernathy continued that

It was a mistake 10r the king forces not to have a stair in

Memphis to train people in non-violence. He said it also was

a mistake on the part of the king forces not to have been

more aware of the local situation.

A confidential source, who has furnished

In Aprils 1904s that Stanley Levison wes

a secret

member of the Conmunist Partys

unitea sites of Anerica (CRUS

JULYs

1963.

sonian andre

montins.

FORZICN INTELLIGENCE OPERATION- UNCONNO

SECRET

i 2.

ww 55152 DocId: 32989579 "Page"do 30

---

## Page 41

Ins Reply, Pissse Refer 10

Filo No.

UNTED STATES DEPARTMENT O1 USTIAD

NEDE

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Atant 2,

Georgia

. 4908

MARTIN LUTTER KING, TR.

SECURITY NATTER • C

WASHLINGION SPRING PROJECT

/ RACIAL MANNER

On March 28, 1968, a confidential source adviced that

during the norning of

that date Reverend Martin lather King:

Ix.s

President, Southern Christian Isadership Conference

participated in a narch in hemphis. tennessee, conducted by

salitation workers who are currently on sirike in that community.

During this maich, incidents of riclence were engaged in by a

relatively emall group of Negroos.

With reference to she above ircidents, it was the

opinion on haren 28, 1958, of Reverend King: Ralpb D. Aberrathy.

•Vice Fresident and Treasurer, SCIC; Bertard

Lee, Special Aide

do the president, scro, and Hesca Willians, Director of Vocai

Registration asd Politidal Education, SCro,

that those responsible

therglon were in no vy connectod with SCIC but rather represeated

a minority the obviously are neither in sympathy vita revercid

King nor SCLe. Reverend King and his colleagues did not koon the

identities of those individuals out suspected they night possibly

be colnected with sone "black pover" organization.

Because

ni the disturbance in lenphis on March '23, 1969

Reverend King bocame extrenely dejected ind discouraged a5 to 116

prospects for suscess of Scless consenplated Washington Spring

Project Sri.

Revegerd King told his colicagues on this dalo

thae because of his participation in the demphis mich, the

disturbance which isveloped and the ensuing publicity ho was

gravely fesriul that his inige

3ud that of SCLC ag adv0r3105

D'f

nonviolence sill be blemished.

This docunent emisins coither recommendations nor conclusiens

of tie FBI.

Is is the prepony of the FBI aud is lossrd lo

your agoray; 2d and its

contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION SICKET

CROTTI

Unauthorized Diselosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

WW 55152 DocId: 92989579 Pade it m

Trom Automatir

Downgrading and Declossification

7175.

---

## Page 42

SECRET

BARTLY LUTHER KING, JR.

VASUINETON SPRING PROJECT

subscribing to the thought that those responsiblc

for the aforementioned disturbance mighi represent some

"black power" organization, bernathy, les, and Willians on

March 23, 1S53, were extremely apprehensive for the personal

safety of leverend King, particularly in the event he should

in the near future appear publicly in convection with activity

by the striking sanitation vorkers in lemphis.

SECREI

NH 55152+ DocId: 32989579 Rage 42.

---

## Page 43

=-TO Pisuide

MAR 2 9 1958

i desper

Mr. Callian.

Security to Crypto

ENC

HERED

Mr. Conrad-e

System

Mr. Felt..

Mr. Gay

AN URGENT 3-25-68-04

Mr. Kowtirt:

iveris

Mi. Guilt.

dir. Tavel...

TO DIRECTOR IZE -126678 ATLANTA RICHMOND AND WASHINGION FIELD

482?5

ATT. DOMESTIC INTELLICENCE DIVISION

Miss Hluolnios...

Miss Gandy

FROM. NEW YORK 166-136585 2P

MARTIN LUTHER

KING.

SM-CO SECURITIN-CANNINET

ACE.

ADVISED THAT MARIIN LUTHER

KING WAS

• IN CORZACI WITH STAULE' LEVISON JUST PRIOR TO

MIDWIGHT THREE IWENIYEIGHT SIXIYEIGHT WHEN THEY DISCUSSED

RIOT IN MEMPHIS. KING STATED HE WAS DEPRESSED BY RIOTS

AND WAS CONSIDERING CALLING OFE THE WASHINGTON MARCH.

LEVISON ADVISED KING HE SHOULD TAKE POSITION IHAT

MAJORITY OF PEOPLE IN MEMPHIS MARCH DID NOT JOIN IN THE

RIOTING AND PROVES. THE EFFECTIVENESS. OF KING'S POLICY

K

OF NON VIOLENCE. ' LEVISON EMPHASIZED THAT THE WASHINGTON

MARCH MILL DAFTER IRON METHIS MARON STROES/112

HAVE ORGANIZED THE WASHINGION MARCH-AND SEAN STRESS-THEM

1066/.032g

IIMPORTANCE

OF ION MIOLENCE.

KING AND SCLC WILL RESPRIN

1968

ATLANTA SATURDAY

'THREE THIRTY SIXIYEICHT TO DISCUSE.

MEMPHIS INCIDENT'AND PROBABLY WASHINGION MARCH. KING

WAS SCHEDULED

PREP COSMINGTON, DC. "THREE TVENTY

END PAGE ONE

¿This document is prepared in response to your request and is naf for dissemi-

ration -outside your Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings .by

nel without the express approval of the EBL

your Cömntittee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

A t 18 isco

MR. DELOACH! FOR THE DIRECTOR

_IN 55152->D00

Sta: 32989579 Page jar

•..

---

## Page 44

PAGE TWO

IRENE SIXTY EIGHI WHICH HE HAS CANCELLED AND WAS SCHEDULED

JO-BE IN VIRGINIA OW MARCH THIRTY SIXTYEIGHT WHICH HE

VILL PROBABLY CANCEL.

END

HEL

R RELAY

FBI WASH • DC

SAL FAB

HCHIUR3

i es

дзеї, ев

GOD WHIL

C NR. SULLIVAN.

7.991

HIH

55152

DocId: 32989579

"Paue 11

-"=1

---

## Page 45

In Reply, Picaso Hefor 10

Filo No.

UiTED STATES DEPARTMENT O! UST™

NEDE

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

Atlanta,,

Ceorgia.

March 2). i90o

MARTIN LUTTER RING, IR.

SECURITY NATTER - C

WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECT

"RACIAL HARTE

On March 28, 1968, & confideutial source advised chai

during the morning of

that date Reverend Hurtin lather King.

Ix., President, Southern Christian Leadership Conference

(SCiC) ,

participated in a march in hemphis, tennessee, corducted by

sanitation workers who are currently oa sirike in that community.

During this march, incidents of ricienes vere engaged in by a

relatively small group of Negroes.

With reference to the above incidents, it was the

opinion on March 28, 1968, of Revererd King; Ralph D. Aberrathy:

•Vice Fresident id Treasurer, SCIC; Barbard Lee, Special Aide

to the president, Scio; and Hesca

Williams, Director of Voic

Registration End

Political Education, SCro,

that those responsible

therqfor were in no way connecied with SOLC but rather represested

a minority who obviously are neither in sympathy with Reveraid

King nor SCLe.

Reverend king and his colleagues did not know the

identitiss of

thase individuals nut

suspected

they night possibly

be connocted with sone "black povor" organization.

because mê che disturbanse in Hemphis on March 28.

196S

Reverend King became axtremely dejected End discouraged 35 to the

prospects de.

suscess of scro's contenplated lashington spring

Project

Revayerd King told his colicagues on this dair

that because of his porticipation in the Memphis maich, tha

disturbance which isveloped and the ansails publicity he ras

gravely teariul that his ingo and that of SCLC as advorales

nonviolence sill be blemished.

ris docunent cosiains roithor recommendate nor cooclusion.

of the FBI. To is thin propony of the li and is loanod lo

your agoray: 11.a0d

its

contests are not to be distributro

outside jour ag63:5.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION SECRET

Unauthorized Disclosure

TROUT I

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

Assladed From Automatin

Don@ading and Declassifleation

?!s?

HH 55152 DocId: 32989579° Pate: 15

---

## Page 46

SECREd

MOSEA WILLIANS

advised Cred C. 0S10k00 3, 19245

RITE BAILEY, CeD &n

employ o of tho Bouthora Cristich. Leadenship Carference,

wile discussing several

SCLe persoralities with che CaritE CANarELL, referred to

HII.LÜA25 .

MILar said MaILing had nontioned to hei

(date sab specified) that 03d foier oscenion (date rot

politias

than he could read.

SES

3°

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 46

---

## Page 47

SECRET

HUNTER PITTS OPTIL

In JUlY, 1952, MOnT PIES O'DELL, 2150 12009

aS JACK H. O'Edil, deS Corsilned ly das Cornisis: Party,

HIATIN FINS O'IELL LOID INVITA SHICH Dacember 27,

1963, ha would ust go back to the: Southern Christian

Leadership Conferenso on the sane basis baccuse hé is now

"Ichi parsea" and it togy succot secept hin the

way he

1s they shay wil keva to forgo soone him.

SECRET

HH 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 47

---

## Page 48

x:8

ED STATES DEPARTMENT Or. "TICE

FEUCEAL

UREAU OF INYESTIGATION

In Reply, Flesso Refer 20

Füle No.

Atlanta, Georcia

Karch 29, 1968

Title

Character

ROfercuCe

MARTIN LUTHIR KING, JR.

YASHINGION SPRING PROJECT

SECURITY HATTER - C

RACIAL MATTER

Atlanis Memorandum dated and captioned as

above.

All, sources (except any listed below) whose identitios

are corcoalad in raferenced

connunication have

furnished relicsic

snormation iu the fast.

This documant contains noither recommendations nor conclusions

of the rBI.

It is tho property of tho r'BI and lo loaned to

your archcy; it and its contents aro not to bo distributed outside

your aboncy.

H# 55152 DocId:32989579 Page 48

---

## Page 49

3-. Teen

C8.

^CAÏ12: 630

KAR 17 1900

il

C:.

FBI KASH DC

TELETYPE

Than

So

Provide Security

to Crypto System

•I.

Ris.

Jor.

Mir.

.r.

Crile

FBI LOS

ANS.

DEFERPED 31.16/68 mE

TO:

DIPTSICS (100-106676)

AND NEW ORLEANS

FROX:•

LOS ANGELES (100-57229) 2P

18257

die!

MARTIN LUTHER KINGS SH - C.

net without the a

jour committre. wncthe.content may

ies.

39.

ANAHEIM CALIFORHIA PD ADVISED TODAY KING APPEARED PRESS

CONFEREFCE DISMEYLAND HOTEL, ANAHEIM STATING HE NEVER ENDORSED

ANY PRESIDONTIAL CANDIDATE. SPOKE HISHLY CE SENATOR EUGENE

the

not

Its use

05,

NO CARTUY STATING HE MIGHT ENDORSE HIM AS PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE

IN NINETEER SIXTYEIGHT ELECTION. CLAIMED HE IS PASSIVE, NON-

disclosed

limited

VIOLENT SOT MILITANT AGAINSI POVERTY AND VIETIAM WARE ALSO APPEARE

IS SPEAKER AI CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC COUNCIL LUNCHECK, ANNETH

CÓNVENTION CENTER. XING STATED IF LOC. "GOVERNENT VOULD 20

ur authorized

official

SOKETHING ABOUT NEGRO POVERTY IN WINTER THERE WOULD SE LESS

LILLEMODE OF SUMMER VICLENCE., STATED THERE WILL EE MARCH ON

Derson-

our request and is not for disser

precedings try

LACHINGION DOC. APRIL NINETÉEN SIXTY ETCHT AND PARTICIPANTS WILL

CONDUCT "STAY-IT'" AT GOVERNIENT OFFICES UNTIL END OF CONGRESSIONAL

SECCIC" TO PROTEST NEGRO POVERTY.

STATED PIDICULOUS TO SPEND

END PAGE ONE

3235

¡EC- 19

MAR 18 1963

54 MAR21 19831

1H/55152. DocId:32989579: Page

CC.

слі! -і

5

---

## Page 50

PASE TWO

LA 100-57229

MONEY TO MILL VIETYAMESE IN VIETNAM AND NOT HELP-UNDERPRIVELEGED

NEGRO..

KING LEFT ANAVEIM THO THIRTY PM FOR UNCOUR APPCIRTRENT IN

LOS ANGELES. ANAHEIM PD ADVISED BY LAPD- INTELLIGENCE KING LEAVES

LOS ANGELES FOR NEW OPLEANS MARCH EIGHTEEN NEXT AT TWELVE THIRTY

PIS ON NATIONAL AIPLINES FLIGHT NUMBER 'THIRTY FOUP.

ADMIRISTRATIVIS

AIRTEL AED LHD FOLLOWS•

END

B G:1

FPI WASH DC

AW 55152 DacId: 32989579 Page 30

minotarin

---

## Page 51

•VIA TELETYPE

MAR 1618

ENGIPHERED

To PRovide security

to Crypto System

URGENT 3-15-68-7

TO DIRECTOR

FROM AILANTA

Mr. Tolson

Hir. Delsach.

SIr. Miohr..

Mr. Diship-

Mr. Casper.

MIr. Callahan.

Mir.

conrad...

Mr. Hilt-

alr. linle

Mr. lrion..

Ji. Saltsant.

SIr. P'asel..

Jr. Tr:lor..

Tele. Koum.

Miss Hulmes

Miss Gandy.

Grieves

well

WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECI, RM. BUREAU FILE ONE FIVE SEVEN -

EIGNT FOUR IWO EIGHI, ATLANTA FILE ONE FIVE SEVEN - TWO NINE TWO FOUR.

MARTIN LUTHER KINGS JRO. SM - C, BUREAU FILE ONE HUNDRED • ONE ZERO SIX

SIX SEVEN ZERO, ATLANTA FILE ONE HUNDRED - FIVE FIVE EIGHT SIX.

RE ATLANTA ALRIEL AND LA MARCH ONE LAST, CAPTIONED AS ABOVE

ON NIGHT MARCH FOURTEEN LASI SEN

CAS ADVISEB

THAI DURING SCLC SIAFF MEETING MARCH IMIRIEEN LASI MARTIN LUTHER KING,

JR., EXPRESSED DESIRE IO AVOID MAKING PENDING IRIP IO AFRICA.

HE, SAID HE FELI WASHINGION SPRING PROJECI REQUIRED CONTINUED ATTENTION

ON HIS PARI. ALSO SAID HE CONTEMPLAIED HAVING RALPH D. ABERNATHY,

VICE PRESIDENT AND TREASURER; SCLO, GO TO UNYICA IN HIS PLACE.

KING SIATED HE DID NOI KNOW IF HE COULD AVOID MAKING AFRICAN TRIP BUT

END PAGE ONE

REC- 59/57-5428-343

will

EX-110

• MAR 18 1968

5

XEROX

This document is prepared in resposse te your equest and is not for dissemi-

* MANGISAS

TAr 1a 1008 nation outsile vour Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person.

HW 55152

I Poeta: 32989579 page thou

nel without the express approval of the FBI

---

## Page 52

PAGE TWO

INTENDED TO TRY. INFORMANT COULD FURNISH NO FURTHER DETAILS AL THIS

TIME.

LAM FOLLOWS O

SOURCE

INFORMATION FROM L

wrasada

CONFIDENTIAL.

AM RM COPY SENT EACH•NEW YORK AND WEO.

MUSI BE CLASSIFIED

RECEIVED:

CC- 2003) 836 522

Thi?

KH 5513 bucla: 39995579 page se

---

## Page 53

tor

il:

VIA TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson..

...

TO PRODIRE SECURITY

To CRyPTO system

Mr. Heliach.

Mr. Mahr.

MAR 1 1 1968

Mr. Highor

This document is prepared in response dà your request and is not. fo, insemi-

Hommattee. Les use as bmited to official prodecuahas bu

nel

yor the cond may not be disclosed to unantitried person

s approval of the EBl.

Mir. Felt

Mir. Gale

3-11-68

URGENT

Mr. Krssen.-

TO DIRECTOR

157-9428 ATT DOMESTIC INTELLIGENCES

WASHINGION TI

Afr. SallisanY

FIP.

T'arel -

"Fartier.

OFFICE, HEW YORK, NEWARK, BALTIMORE, AND BOSION (MAIL) (PLATES

Miss Gandy_

WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE VIA WASHINGTON

FROM PHILADELPHIA

157-2476

(P)

94426

72.21

CUASNINGION SPRING PROUCCI, IN. DO MED.

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT, PHT-ONE WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE iNFO

IN THE PASI ADVISED THREE ELEVEN INSTANT THAT REVEREND JAMES -ORANGE,

NARTIN LUTHER KING'S, SCLC, DIRECIOR IN PHILA STATED AS FOLLOWS PE

XING WILL BE IN AFRICA IN THE FIRSI PART DE APRIL SIXTYEIGHT

FOR ABOUT TEN DAYS. KING WILL RETURN TO THE US AND BE IN PHILA TO REST

AND MAKE FURTHER PREPARATIONS FOR WSP, WHICH WILL TAKE PLACE APRIL

TWENTYTWO IN WASHeS D.C. KING IS CONCERNED ABOUT INE SAFETY OF HIS

FOLLOWERS AND KINGS PEOPLE ABOUT HIS SAFETY: PARTICIPANTS WILL LEAVE

FROM VARIOUS CITIES IN US TO ARRIVE WASHINGTON FOUR IWENTYTUO

NEXI, PHILA FOLLOWERS (SEVERAL HUNDRED EXPECTED) WILL GO TO WASH ?

BY BUS AFTER BEING JOINED BY HUUDREDS WHO WILL START FROM BOSTON MISS

APRIL NINETEEN OR TUENTY NEXT • ERSTONLANS WILL GO TO NYCE ENSE.

- 35

TKEN WALK IHROUGHY NYC WHERE JOINED BY NEW YORKERS, HENCU/O ha Ea

REG- 30

REMARY TO WALK THROUGH CITY WITH ADDITOR OF HENARK RESIDENS ENGaG

BY BUS TO TRENTON, N.J., WHERE WILL REPEAI PROCEDURE; AND THEN TO

PHILA.

KING WILL JOIN GROUP IN NORTH PHILA AND ALL WILL WALK IHROUGH

5C% AS ZIRPORT AT SOUTHVEST EXTREMITY OF PHILA.

END PAGE ONEQELATED TO

1/100

MAR BO 1968

H1H

55152 DogId:32989579

Page 33--

---

## Page 54

BEL WAS

..°1.

•Ach

PAGE IWO

PH

1578428

FBI PHILA

DR. KING WILL FLY TO WASH., DICe, WHILE THE MARCHERS WILL WALK

ON TO CHESTER, PA., RIDE TO WILDINGION, DEL.; MARCH THROUGH WILMINGIO!;

RIDE TO BALTIMORE, WALX THROUGH TOWN; AND THEN RIDE TO OUISKIRIS O

WASHO, D.C., WHERE THEY WILL BE LED THROUGH WASHE, DOCO, BY XING IO

THE "CHERRY BIOSSOM"AREA.. THEY WILL CAMP THERE UNTIL CONGRESS MEETS

KING'S DEMANDS. PH I-ONE IS OF OPINION THAT ORANGE NOI REALLY RAVINE

GREAT SUCCESS AS HE MENTIONED NO NUNSERS OF ANTICIPATED PARE

TICIPANTS:

PII T" INO; WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO IN THE PAST ADVISED

THREE ELEVEN INSTANT THAT HE HAD BEEN TO SOLE, PHILA HEADGLARTERS

AND THE GERNEAL CONVERSATION DOES NOT APPEAR TO INDICATE THAT THE

STATE IS RECEIVING AN ENTHUSIASTIC RESPONSE IN THE CITY. THIS IS NE

OPINION AND FEELING ONLY®

ADMINISTRATIVE PARA SUTELLIGENCE AGENCIES COGHIZANE. LIM FOLLOWSO

PH T- ONE IS

uperaisito

WHO REQUESTED HIS IDENTITY NOT

BE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE THE BUREAU. PH I-

BUREAU WILL BE KEPT ADVISED.

TESCORT PAGE TO LINE SIXTEEN E

END

dicinitn,i967k-714

SOURCE

indirectreaten

WA.. a MKP R. RELAY MR. TRAINOR

ROOM S36 9&D

FBI WASH DC

---

## Page 55

TRA NASH, ST

provide

FBI - CHICAGO

security to crypts

Suotel

um DEFERRED 2121/68

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

MUNICATION SECTION

FEB2'Y 1968

TELETYPE

TO DIRECTOR (157-8428) AND ATLANTA (157-2924)

WASHINGTON FIELD : {157-1395).

WASHINGION FIELD VIA WASHINGION

FROM CHICAGO (157-2474) (P)

7.?

Mr. Calain

Mr. Felt.

Ar. 20r

Mr. 'Troiter

Tele. B00m

Miss Holies

luiss Gandy

RAcia!, winttes

WASHINGTON SPRING PROJECI (WSP), RAM: 00: WASHINGTON FIELD

CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE, RELIABLE IN THE PAST, ADVISED AS

FOLLOWS RE WSP, FEBRUARY TWENTY-SEVEN, INSTANI:

MEETING SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP. CONFERENCE (SCLO) TE

OFFICIALS HELD ATLANTA, GEORGIA, PM, FEBRUARY. IWENTY-FOUR

AND FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIVE, LAST, IN PLANHING SESSIONS FOR WSP.

THOSE PRESENT INCLUDED

REVEREND ANDREW YOUNG, SCLE EXECUTIVE

VICE PRESIDENT; MOSE!

WILLIANS, FIELD DIRECTOR, WSP. AND

APPROXIMATELY, 'EIGH-TEN OTHERS FROM VARIOUS AREAS OF COUNTRY.

PRINCIPAL TOPIC DISCUSSION AI BOTH MEETINGS CONCERNED

il.

SECURITY PROBLEMS INVOLVING SCLE PRESIDENT MARTIN LUTHERKING,

JRo. IN COURSE OF WSP, ARISING FROM FEARS EFFORTS WILL BE

BADE TO ASSASSINATE. KING. NO SPECIFIC THREATS TO KING

END PAGE, ONE

st. REC-22 00/57-54-5.263

0340"

:?, •

18 MAR 5 1968

-F54

MAR 7

1989

I'his document as prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is lenited to official proceedings on

-your Co imittee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

коже

nel sickout the express

t5515202DocTal 298957bii Pare 55•

271

approval of the FBI

:

: 3K

ryor

---

## Page 56

PAGE TWO

CG

157-2474..

REFERRED TO, DESPITE QUESTIONING THIS REGARD, BUI "BLACK

PEOPLE"' AS WELL AS WHITES IO BE "HAICHED". NO INDIVIDUALS

OR GROUPS REFERRED TO SPECIFICALLY AS SOURCE OF CONCERN CON-

CERNING KING'S SAFETY,

. NO BODY GUARDS AS SUCH ASSÍGNED, HOWEVER, YOUNG STATED

PEOPLE WOULD BE PRESENT AT WSP. WITH GUNS TO PROTECT KING.

INNER AND OUTER CIRCLE OF PEOPLE TO PROTECT KING WITH OWN

BODIES WILL BE FORMED, HOWEVER, DETAILS NOT WORKED OUT THESE

MEETINGS. KING NOI PRESENT THESE MEETINGS.

Y LANES BEVEL, ASSOCIATED WITH CHICAGO SP EFFORIS, PRESENT.

AT'SCLO HEADQUARTERS ALSO BUT DID NOT PARTICIPATE THESE

•MEETINGS. UNDERSTOOD BEVEL PLANNED PROTEST OF INADEQUATE

FUNDS AVAILABLE CHICAGO WSP STAFF, HOWEVER, NOT NNOWN WHETHER

BEVEL PROTESTED AS PLANNED IO SCLO OFFICIALS THIS METING.

END PAGE' IWO

1. Г.

211:21

Fin 5512

Doc fl 3298947" Page

•5,6 X0

---

## Page 57

PAGE THREE CG 157-2474

ADMINISTRATIVE

RE. CHICAGO TEL FEBRUARY

TWENTY-ONE, LAST, THIS CAPTION.

CANCE

SOURCE OF ABOVE INFO IS%

11419.1

MEMBER SCLO CHICAGO STAFF.

LAIT FOLLOWS, CHICAGO FOLLOWING AND PERTINENT SEBSEQUENT

DEVELOPMENTS WSP TO BE PROVIDED BUREAU AND INTERESTED OFFICES.

BOVE INFO NOT BEING DISSEMINATED LOCALLY FOR SECURITY OF

FOURCES ADDITIONALLY AS. IT DOES NOT DIRECTLY EFRECT CHICAGO

HIELLIGENCE AGENCIES..

ND

EX'S

BI WASH

DOX

155..

i3!H

O LN

.ssis2 bocia: 10b89579 PuT

Page 57.

---

## Page 58

FBI

Dots:

2/16/08

tomi! the istlowing in

Type li picintest or surel

(tricritz')

TO

PROM

SUBSSCT:

DIRECTOR,

FBI (157-3428)

SAC; CHICAGO (25-2*79 (P)

WASHSNGION SERING PROJECT (HSP)

D. Mante

(00: W7O)

nic Chicago teletyce to Bursau anted 2/15,08, muc

Chicago airtel.and letterhoad menorandun (UDI dated 2/9/93.

Enclosed for the Burenu are twelve copies of an

it captionod as above with copies as noted for offices

indicuted below for internation purposes.

ENCL

ScuncE the source utilized in the enclosed Lit 1s

nimit to enclosed Lill is clussiriod

"confidential" since unauthorizoo disclose of sane could

resuli in identification ge the concidential source und

Bureau (Encis ENOLDS.

3.-

7=100-126794 (037n

Atlanta (Encis.

B) (RM)

1 - 157-2924

(HSP)

1-

3.00--571S

(SCIC)

1 - 100--5056

(3. Li. KING)

2 - FIO (Encis. 2) (R$)

1

- Jackson (Encl. 1) (Info) (1)

Mobile (Encl. 1) (Info) (20:)

DATE

HOW FOX

Charlotte (Bach. 1) (ino) (R1)

-

Columbia (Each. 1) (InfO) (1312)

200

Richmond (Trol. 1) (Info)(N!)

- Baltimora (baci. 1) (Info) (R21) EX 106

- ChicagO

& FEB 19 ijus

C.C. " Bisho = 150-322

COMES

100-3÷355

(3:.

105-15276

( SCLC)

157-1032

(2210 16021.

RiC:i00

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for disserti-

nation outside your Committee.

His use is mad to official proceedings by

noi ve aisclosed do mautionized person

your Cormie unt the content not the st

nel unthout the express approval of

i..

Fi!

AFTE:

I 5ia3al A94 A Charge

Pei

HN 55152 DooId:32989579

Page 58

---

## Page 59

CG 157-2.171

jeopardize the future effectivenoss thereot. is an additional

precausion: the Will has been datelined Washington, D. C.,

rather than Chic:go, Jllinois.

No copies

are being furnished

to local agencios Chicago in order to further protect source.

Chicago is following captioned matter and subsequent

pertinent developmonts will be appropriatcly provided tho

• Buenu and interested uffices.

-

2, -

AN 55152

Doc1d: 32989579

Page

39

---

## Page 60

In dirpils, I'lese diafir 8a

Pile do.

U: TED STUS DEMARTDENT OF! STICE

FEDERAL BUXEAL OF INTESTICATION

Vashington, D.

пʼєрину 2б, 1обі

CONFIDENTTAL

WASHINGION SPRING PROJNCT (YSP)

• RACIAL MATTERS

On Fobruary 15, 1965,

a confidential source, who

has furnished reliable information in the past, advised is

follows:

On February 12, 1963, a meeting of membars of to

Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) was held &i

the Paschel Motor Inn, Atlanta, Ceorgia,

concerning the

Vashington Spring Project which is planned to take place

quring the first part of April, 1953,

in washington, D. C.

The folloving SCuC

officers and staif members were present

at this meeting:

Martin Luther King,

President of SCIC

Reverend James Bevel

Revcrend Jesse Jackson.

Andrew Young

Bernard La Fayett

Hosea Williars

Reverend Fred C. Bennette

Bill Ruthorford

iJ. I. Johnson

Ralph Henry

Stoney Cooks

The discussion during this neoting primarily conccined

the march from Baltimore, Maryland, to Washington, D. C., which

is to signal the beginning of the lashington Spring Project.

:It was reported at this meeting that there is believed to. ba

CONFIDENTIAL

Excluded fron quio..isi

Downgrading and

Declassifichtion

This docment contains noither recomentations nor conclusion: oi

the rel mood or irestigation.

It is the progerid o

i??:

Weau Ce Thritichlion and 16 Jerued to your

money; il

ilo,

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

17 55152 bocId: 32989579 Page 60.

---

## Page 61

"RC: HASHINCTO SPRING PROJECT (WO

CONFIDENTIAL

a serious that against the life of Martin Inther King and

that an attompt upon his life will be mde during this

In order to counteraci such an attempi, Reverend Bennette

was assigned

i to Ba in charge of

security for Martin Luther

King and Ralph lonry was assigned to be Reverend Bennetic's

assistant.

It was indicated that those involved in this

security should be alert for danger, not only from white

persons but also from Negroes.

No additional infornation

was given at this time concorning any possible threats.

It was reported by several of those present thai

serious difficulty had been encountered in the northern statos

in recruiting participants foi

the lashington Spring Project.

li was, thereroie, decided to concentrate the recruithent oi

participants in the southern siates..

It was also roported that serious financial problens

have developed, especially in certain arcas.

HOSeR

Willians

presented proposed budgets for the "financially deprived oi

unresponsive areas involved in the Washington campaign."

ile

stated that for one rcason or another the following areas

seemed to be having unsolved financial. problems in getting

their nobilization and rocruiting staried:

Mississippi

Alabama

Georgia

North Carolina

South Carolina

Virginia

Washington, D. C.

Baltimore,

Maryland

Williams stated that it was originally planned that

each project area vas to raise its own funds, however, this

..does not secm possible in the poorer areas at this time. He

reported that he had conferted with project leaders

in the

above areas and they state that they can do the jou provided

they

furnished the resources to get it started.

Based on

Williams'

conversations with. thosc leaders, a budget has been

dialn up for cach of the above arcas which

provides batroan

$1,200 to $1, 500 per month with the exception of south Crolin:

which will receive $710 and Washington, D. C., which will

rcccive 53,000. Those budgots include

pajaents for itors such

CONFTTTIAL

1H 55152 DocId: 32989579 Page 61

---

## Page 62

RO:

VASHINGTON SPRIG PROJECT (IS})

CONFIDNTIAL

as bi-monthly paymonts to subsistence workers,

travel,

telephone exponsos, costs of utilities, miling expenses,

otlIce supplies hur materials, and chtertarnnent.

At the conclusion of this meeting, it was announced

that subsequent meetings will be held evory honday for the

noxt thrue wooks in an eifori to complete the plans for the

Washington Spring Projeci.

CONFIDENTIAL

NN 55152 DocId: 32989579

Page 62

---

