# docid-32292792

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 711 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10210-10068

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2469, 2470

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, MX

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/06/1974

8

SGI, ASSOC, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TTY

v9.1

DocId: 32292792

Page 1

358

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Aot of

DATE: 11-14-2017

tote).

FTB027: 7810PM: 9-6-74 TJI

STATE 754 & 756

FEBERAL DUREÀO OF MNVESTIGATICI

COMVUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 061974

I CLASSIFTED DECISTONS FINA

TELETY

Pira

1:55 PM URGENT 9/6/74 MJD

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171) NR'S 799-06 AND 800-06

FROM

LÉGAT MEXICO CITY (92-13)

6P

AssoC.

Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm

Dep.-A.D.-Inv..

Asst Divi

FOompr

Syst..:

Affairs

W den. Inv.

Ident.

Inspect

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan aval

Speed Inver

Treming -

Legal Coun

Telephone Ra, -

Directur Sec'y

BY DST

iT.

1018/85

MEDTED

DATE?

SAM BIANCANA, ANASTANTA-RACKETEERINCES

som De: Palma

ON42/98

REMYTEL AUGUST 15, 1974, AND BUTEL SEPTEMBER 4

SURVEILLANCE INFORMANTS, MEX-42 AND MEX-1967

CONDUCTED PERIODIC SPOT SURVEILLANCES AT THE FORMER RESIDENCE

OF THE SUBJECT IN CUERNAVACA, MORELOS,

MEXICO, DURING THE

PAST 30 DAYS AND HAVE DETECTED NO UNUSUAL ACTIVITY AND NO

INDICATIONS THAT HOSEHOLD GOODS OR OTHER PROPERTY ISBEING

SPERIE

вса/сс

REMOVED:

CONDUCTED EXTENSIVE PRETEXI

I NGui

REPORTED

ON AUGUST 20, 1974, THAT THERE HAS BEEN NO UNUSUAL ACTIVITY

IN THAT AREA AND NO SIGN EY ANYONE MOVING IN OR OUT OF THE

(S)

7/ід

HOUSE, THE SUBJECT'S ALTORNEX, JORGE CASTILLO, HAS VISITEDL

END PAGE ONE

Relayed to 6 1a t

MENDED REPLImA

-92-3171-2469

10-78 to 6G

9-10-24

REC-16

MER: ESP

8O SEP 11 1974

9-83-81

EXT

REASON-FCIM'II

DATE OF REVIEW

FIED

HEREIN IS

EXCEPT

OISERWISE

50 Tem958

ATION INDEFIN

DocId: 32292792

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

PAGE FOUR

CONTINUING

1EX-1744

SALD SUBNECT WAS BROUGHT IMMEDIATELY

TO MEXICO CITY AND HELD ESSENTIALLY INCOMMUNICADO AT THE OFFICE

OF THE INSPECTION SERVICE OF MEXICAN IMMIGRATION. HIS DEPORTATION

WAS BASED NOT ONLY ON THE FACT THAT THERE HAD BEEN AN ORDER

ISSUED SEVERAL YEARS EARLIER PROHIBITING HIS LEGAL ENTRY INTO

THE COUNTRY BUT ALSO BECAUSE HE HAD NO CURRENT MEXICAN

DOCUMENTATION IN HIS POSSESSION. THIS SOURCE STATED THAT

MEXICAN IMMIGRATION HAD NO INFORMATION INDICATING THAT SUBJECT

HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO. SUBJECT'S

ATTORNEY, JORGE CASTILLO, DID GO TO THE OFFICE OF THE INSPECTION.

SERVICE BUT WAS NOT PERMITTED TO SEE OR COMMUNICATE WITH THE

SUBJECT

ON AUGUST 30, 1974, MEX-304 STATED THAT INFORMATION

RECEIVED BY HIM FROM VARIOUS SOURCES WITHIN MEXICAN IMMIGRATION

INDICATES THAT THE ORDER FOR THE ARREST AND DEPORTATION OF

SUBJECT CAME: DIRECTLY FROM THE MEXICAN MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT,

MARIO MOYA PALENCIA, WHO IS SECRETARY OF GOBERNACION. (A(4)

END: PAGE FOUR

DocId: 32292792 Page 3

---

## Page 4

releaset under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2107 Hotey

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-15

PAGE FIVE

MOYA PALENCIA WAS THE ACTING HEAD OF THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT

DURING THE ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT LUIS: ECHEVERRIA FOR THE

PERIOD JULY 10 - 31, 1974, PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED• (A)CU)

ON AUGUST 22, 1974, CS MEX-287 RÉPORTED THAT SHORTLY

AFTER SUBJECT'S DEPORTATION, THE SOURCE ATTENDED A SOCIAL

EVENT WITH SUBJECT'S ATTORNEY, JORGE CASTILLO.

CASTILLO MADE

THE REMARK TO OTHERS PRESENT THAT IF HE, CASTILLO, *HAD BEEN

HERE" THE DEPORTATION. WOULD NOT HAVE TAKEN PLACE. THIS

CONFLICTS WITH INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM OTHER SOURCES

INDICATING THAT CASTILLO WAS IN MEXICO CITY BUT WAS ABLE

TO DO NOTHING. (AIL

EMEX-349 - PCIAN ESPECIALLY SENSITIVE SOURCE, HAS JUST

RETURNED FROM VACATION AND IS BEING REQUESTED TO DEVELOP

AVAILABLE INFORMATION REGARDING&TOLL CALLS FROM SUBJECT'S

RESIDENCE (ICU)

END PAGE FIVE

DocId: 32292792

Page 4

---

## Page 5

under the John

DATE: 11-14-29

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act'of 1992 (44 USC 7107

194

Classif

CONXDENTIAL

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATTOIS

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

SEP 091974

Agsoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.-

Dep.-A.D.-Inv._

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

SURIREN

FTBD30

7:30PM 9/9/74 GHS

TELETPE

Moden

nST

ction

FBA0O4

BECLASSIFIE

2:36 PM URGENT 9/9/74 MJD

FIDENTIAT

1628 REP

•FETOTOTOIO OTOTOLOTONUTONA

• 5707"

Plan

oval

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

TO

DIRECTOR (92-3171

NR 807-09

FROM

LEGAT MEXICO CITY (92-13)

2.P

CLASS.

8 EX

j PAGON-FCIM

JATE. OF

REVIE

1 9-41

PaRI

OFFICES

SAM GIANCANA, AKA; ANTIRACKETEERING

22/85 orclon

IATE AGENCIES AND

AND FIE"DA

ADVISED EX

CUTING

SLIP (S) 07

REMY TEL SEPTEMBER 6, 1974.U

DATE 9U6

Classificatian

REGARDING FOREIGN TRAVEL OF SUBJECT AND METHODS OF ENTERING

AND LEAVING MEXICO, PRIVATE AIRCRAFT MAY HAVE BEEN USED AT

LEAST ON SOME OCCASIONS. MEXICO CITY LETTER APRIL 24, 1970,

REPORTED: THE ARRIVAL AND DEPARTURE ON FEBRIARY 11, 1970, AT THE

MEXICO CITY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT OF A LEAR JET, REGISTRATION

NSS1 (MD) , WITH LISTED OUNER AS TIGER OIL COMPANY (E) 4

IMMIGRATION RECORDS SHOWED THIS AIRCRAFT ARRIVED WITH TWO

SLIP

PILOTS AND NO PASSENGERS BUT DEPARTED WITH PHYLLIS MC GUIRE

LISTED AS THE ONLY PASSENGER.

MISS MC GUIRE HAD EXPLAINED TO

LAS VEGAS AGENTS THAT SHE SPEN

EVERAC- PAYS WITH SUBLECT

ACAPULCO AND CUERNAVACA, MEXICO, AND REQUESTED THAT EDWARD

- 2440

MIKE

DAVIS SEND A JET TO PICK HER UP IN MEXICO AFTER SUBJECT

PHYSICALLY ABUSED HER. LAS VEGAS LETTER MARCHI 79, 1970, INSTRUCTS (A)M

ReEND PAGE ONE

073

toCG

. 9-10

imER: 1a12

EP 181974

F14Z

GONE

CO

125?

CHASSI

FECASTOW

INDEFINITE

DocId: 32292792 Page 5

---

