# docid-32295625

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10215-10401

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 87-142614-5, 6

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#: NW 53025 Date:

95-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/10/1976

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

BBR, ALIAS, RES, CRIMINAL ACT, ASSOC, LCN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

02/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC A/T

v9.1

HH 53025

2

DocId: 32295625

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

ding

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 11/15/76

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO

FROM

/

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, CHICAGO (87-45500)

"SWAG SHOP"

ITSP - FENCE

TFIS - FENCE

TTP

(P)

18

00: CHICAGO

Re Chicago letter to Bureau dated 9/27/76; Bureau

teletype to Chicago dated 10/27/76; Chicago teletype to Bureat

and Minneapolis dated 11/10/76 and Chicago letter to San

Antonio (IO) dated 11/10/76.

The referenced Chicago letter set forth the intended

plan of action of the Chicago Division as a high level jewelry

and stolen property fencing operation.

The referenced Bureau

teletype authorized expenditure of FBI funds for the operation.

The Chicago teletype dated 11/10/76 set forth recent develope

ments at Chicago, which will be discussed below.

PC1,2, 3

Upon receiptlof FBI HQ authority to expend funde

CG 11685-C was advised to contact the Mayfair Management

Compaty, " North Habash building realty agents and initiate

source was provided

several available locations and a decision was made by the

Chicago Division to lease Suite 1103, 5 North Wabash. This

location is adjacent to the building elevator bank and has

windows opening on to Madison Street.

Bureau Agents of the

Chicago Division trained in Technical Security and Photographic

Surveillance conducted appeliminary survey of the suite,

Bureau

REC-

13

Chicago

87-142614

10

DE-21,

WAM/RIG

(4)

shas means

Approved:

84 DEC 1 4 1976

WHOSE

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

17 NOV 19 1976

M

Per

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICIAL LOGO 0 - 346-090 (11)

NW 53025 DocId: 32295625

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 87-45500

business as a channel for secret funds. Therefore, they are

only interested in high level burglaries and trailer loads

of merchandise.

This attitude should discourage the street

level hoodlum from attempting to unload the proceeds of a

low level robbery, l.e. a purse-snatching, at the business.

However, for the individual or group more prominent in the

criminal hierarchy, no deal will be too large or too small

for perusal by the operation.

Chicago made arrangements with the Austin Resident

Agency, San Antonio Division, to have a background entered

for the UTSA into the Texas Drivers License Computer.

The

background was furnished to FBI Liaison at Austin with the

Chief of the Texas Drivers License Bureau by letter which

accomplished the entry by legal means.

computer will reflect the actual Texas license was reported

lost by the individual

and application was made by him for

a State of Illinois Drivers License.

Chicago made the actual

application for the Illinois Drivers License and furnished

an appropriate cover letter to the Chief Investigator of the

Secretary of States Office, who has had liaison established

in the past with the Field Supervisor at Chicago directing

this operation.

Other UT identifiers for the UTSA have been

applied for through FBI HO Liaison under separate cover.

On 11/10/76,

source advised that a notoriou

-source,

with numerous criminal contacts, including LCN

figures, planned a "party" in honor of the source's new

business venture. The UTSA, with Bureau authority, flew to

Chicago from Minnesota, and

on the evening of 11/11/76, the

source, three of

the source's paid "bodyguards" and the

UTSA attended this party. At this party were over sixty

persons, including white

and Negro armed robbers, burglars,

fences, high level prostitutes and "kinky" attorneys.

Numerous invaluable contacts were initiated by the source

and a guest list of those in attendance is being obtained

for "business purposes."

As of 11/12/76 the suite was decorated, the

furniture and rug installed. The Technical Security personnel

buzzer system for entrance to the shop is operational. The

burglar alarm system used in Field Division Resident Agencies

has been selected for installation as it has proven more

effective than ADT Alarm Systems. At Chicago there is a

-3.

53025 DooId: 32295625 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 0 007

3152009

00 HQ MP

FEDAL BUREAU UE EVESI NATION

COMMROIPATIONS SENTION

DE CG

0

102D09Z NOV 76

FM CHICAGO (87-45500)

TO DIRECTOR IMMEDIATE

NOV

MINNEAPOL IS IMMEDIATE

B

8

FT 0

SWAG SHOP SIORE FRONT OPERATION. IISP- FENCE; IFIS- FENCE; TIP

FOR INFORMATION OF THE BUREAU AND MINNEAPOLIS, CG

1. 11685-69

THE FRONT MAN FOR THE CAPTIONED OPERATION, ADVISED THAT A CRIMI-

NAL ASSOCIATE BUNNY CURRY, AKA BUNNY HEWITT, AKA CAROL SCOTT, AKA

CHARLOTTE SCOTI, WHO RESIDES IN A SECOND FLOOR APARTMENT ABOVE

THE "STÉAK JOINT" RESTAURÄNT, 1612 NORTH WELLS STREET, CHICAGO,

PLANS A PARTY IN HONOR OF THE SOURCE'S NEW BUSINESS VENTURE. THE

SOURCE RELATED THAT NUMEROUS ACTIVE CRIMINAL PERSONALITIES WILL

BE IN ATTENDANCE AT THIS PARTY INCLUDING BURGARCE HENCES, ARMED

PORPERS, AND POSSIBLY LON-LIVEL LEN FIGURES 82 - 1426Y. 5

IT SHOULD BE

NOTED THAT THE SOURCE

HAS

MAINTAINED A CLOSE

AND CONTINUING RELATIONSHIP WITH BUNNY CURRY, A "NOTORIOUS

MADAME" KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN PROSTITUTION AND OTHER

Nuv

15/U

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.=

Dep.-A.D.-InV.-

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext.

Affairs

Gen. Inv

Ident.

Intell.

Laboratory -

Legal Coun..

Plan & Insp.

Rec. Mgmt. -

Spec. Inv. --

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

he mortR

84 NOV 2 4 1976

NW 53025 DocId: 32295625

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE TWO

CG 87-45500

EFTO

RELATED CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES OVER THE PAST YEARS. IN ADDITION,

THE SOURCE RECENTLY FURNISHED INFORMATION CONCERNING A RING

INVOLVED IN THE THEFT AND CASHING OF U.S. TREASURY CHECKS STOLEN

FROM THE U.S. MAILS. BUNNY CURRY WAS DIRECTLY INVOLVED AND AS

A RESULT OF THE INFORMATION, IS UNDER INVESTIGATION BY US.

POSTAL INSPECTORS. THE SOURCE HAS NOT BEEN COMPROMISED AND HAS

MAINTAINED CLOSE RELATIONSHIP TO THIS DATE.

THE CHICAGO DIVISION FEELS THAT THIS FUNCTION PRESENTS AN

EXCELLENT OPPORIUNITY FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF UNDER COVER SPECIAL

AGENT OLEN VICTOR MARVEY TO CRIMINAL ASSOCIATES OF BOTH BUNNY

CURRY SUPRA AND CG 11685-C. IT IS BELIEVED THAT ATTENDANCE WITH

THE SOURCE AT THIS PARTY WILL FURNISH A VALUABLE OPPORTUNITY TO

DEVELOP POTENTIAL CONTACTS AMONG THE CRIMINAL ELEMENT KNOWN TO

BE IN ATTENDANCE AND WILL FURNISH A VALUABLE ASSIST TO THE CAP-

TIONED OPERATION SCHEDULED TO COMMENCE FULL OPERATION WITHIN.

THE NEXT ONE TO TWO WEEKS.

THE CHICAGO DIVISION DOES NOT BELIEVE THERE IS ANY SECURITY

PROBLEM FOR THE UNDER COVER SPECIAL AGENT IN CONNECTION WITH

ATTENDANCE AT THIS FUNCTION.

NW 53025 DooId: 32295625 Page 5

---

