# docid-32318831

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/13/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10366-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : NO FILE NUMBER

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 05/31/1957

• PAGES: 196

SUBJECTS :

MIOG - 1965

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : REVISION NUMBER 48

v9.1

DocId: 32318831

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

H8y 31, 195

REVISTON MULER A RECULATIONS

REVISION NUMBER

afrolete

RES. REVISED PAGES

Phere

are enumerated bolou pages of the Manual of. Rulos sad

Rogalatioas, anolosod herowith, mdich dare boon ratiood.

ReTisiOns appearing

these pazod say be sotad by brsoleto.

The dots appoardad at the bottom

of the pagos indioatos the date of cartedoa.

The new pogos.sh.uld be 12-

posted la the appropriato sootion ind the old correspondlad pages ahould

Do resored and turnod aros to the spoodal dgont la Chisto who has the responsi-

D121ty 80r tho appropristo destruction of there old pago.

raja dover detter should be retained until the next consocutively

anaberod lostet le recoired. tula mill aneblo the slold offioe Imediately

to doteot the failure to receite the latest manual retialons.

Table of Contants - Pages 1

Pages 3

Page 5

Part I

Section 1 - Pages

1 and 2

Pages

Section 2 = Pages 1 and 2

Page

Seotion 3 - Pages 1 and

Pages

Pages 5 and 6

Soction 4 - Pages

1 and 2

РаЛОВ

3

and

.4

Pages

5

and 6

Pages

7 and 8

Pages

9 and 10

Pages 11 sad 12

Section 5 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages 3 and 4

Pares 5 aad 6.

PAge

Seotion 6 ~ Pares 1 and 2

Pages

PaRes 5 and 6

Page 7

Section 7 - Pages 1 and 2

SOOtIOn 8 - Pagos 1 and 2

Pages

3 and a

5

and 6

PaRes

sad 8

Pages 9 and 10

Section 9 = Pages

Pages

sed

3

Section 10 - Pages.

1

and

PAges

3

Pages

and

and

Page

7

2

4

6

Section. 11 - Pages

PAgeS

3

and

and

4

Section 12 - Pages

1

Page 3

and 2

Section 13 - Pages

1

Pages

3

Pages

5

and

-2

4

and

6

Section 14 - Pages

Pages

PARES

Pages

1

3

5

7

and

2

and

and

6

& nd

Pages

and

10

Pades 11 and 12

Pages 13 and 14

PREe 15.

Sootion 15 - Pages I and 2

Pages 3 and 4

Pages 5 and 6

Section 16 - Pages 1 and 2

Pages. 3 and 4

Pages 5 and 6

Pages 7 and 8

(Contisued on solloniag page)

DocId: 32318831 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992:(44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

8B = C

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

c.

See Beotión 4, D.

1s, (2), part II,

in which these leads are to be set out.

of this masual for methody

8:

is requested to conduot an Interview and it appears

Interviened 18 likely to be a mitress for the

U.S. Goverment and information furnished by him 1s apt to be

advise Bureau so that ROMP may belli

418o, when it appears me may be requested to produce

or disclose the contents of RCMP. reports in connection with any

1800 ay deter ede the Dureau and Pursias

Ibe Province of British Columbia - Seattle Office

The Provinoes of Alberta and Saskatchewän - Butte Office

The Province of Manitoba - Minneapolis Office

The Province of Quebec - Albany Office

New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland - Boston Office

The Province of Ontario - Buffalo and Albany Offices with

exceptions as noted in subsections. I, II, and III.

is to handle leads west of Irenton, Ontario, including

Trenton.

Albany is to handle leads

I.

That portion of the Province of Ontario lying immediately

adjacent to the Detroit Office, including the cities of

Windsor, London, St. Thomas, and Chathan - Detroit Office

II.

III.

That portion of

tiguous to Sault Ste, Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office

That portion of the Provinoe of Ontario immediately

north of the northern boundary of Minnesota, including

the cities of Port Arthur, Fort William, and

Minneapolis Office

(5)

Offioes covering leads in Mexico

Investigations mithis 25 miles of the Mexican border are handled

by border offices on a liaison basis with the exception of

San Diego Office

which handles leads aoproximately 60 miles

south of the border, including the city of Ensenada, Baja

California,

the Phoenix Office which handles leads in

Cananea,

Otber leads are to be sent to the Bureau.

(a)

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Albuquerque

Office

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Il Paso Office

The State

of Sonora

- Phoenix Office

The States of Coahuila, Nueto Leos, and Tamaulipas - San Antonio

Office

(e)

Northern territory of Baja California - San Diego Office

¿. Information relative to convictions, sentenoes,

ceration received from USAs or judges need be verified by examination

of oourt records only when acouracy

Title 18, USC, & 474, probibits the photographing of any national bank

currenoy,

Federal Reserve notes, U. S. or foreign government securities

or obligations,

except by direction of some proper officer of the U.S.

However, part

grants

404, chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of Federal Regulations,

authority to all banks and banking institutions to make film records

of paper money, U. S. Government securities and shecks, and to project

such

records on a soreen provided the film records

are maintained as

confidential. This part states that no prints, enlargements, and other

reproduations of such film records may. be made

of

exoept with the permission

Commissioner of Public Debt,

as Soner or pube are are he othereoret stride Dire

or such officers as may be designated by them.

Division,

TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BUREAU

Confidential character of FBI reoords land information)

Departmental Orderl 324-64, lsigned by the Attorney General (108-64 )

and published in the Federal Register (1010-64, Isupersedes previous

Departmental Orders{260-62 andj3229.

the procedure to

be followed when an employee is served with a subpoena or order for

10

11-27-64

DocId: 32318831 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John FK

Kennedy Assassination Becords Collection Act of 1923 644 USS 7103

DATE: 11-14-2017

PART II

SECTION 9.

CLASSIFICATION • CHARACTER • COPIES - ABBRIVIATIONS

NSLI.

•National Servioe L1fe

ISBUraDOe

NSN

NSP

..Navy Serial Number

NSPT

NUAT

•National Stolen Property

• •National Stolen Property File

•National Unidentified

Ammunition File

• Obstruction of Court Orders

OFP

•Office of Emergency

Planning

ONI.

00....

...Office of Naval Intelligence

...Office of Origin

00J .

OSD.

OSIAF

• • Obstruction of Justice

• 01f10e of Secretary of Defense

•Office of Special Investiga

tions, Air Force

..Parenthesis

PAREN.

PBV..

......Probation Violator

PC..........Peace Corps

PCI.........Potential Criminal Informant

PD......... Police Department

PERJ........ Perjury

PMN......... Public Motor Number

ров..

......Place of Birth

PSI..

PSN.

PV.

PVIN..

..Potential Security

Informant

• Publio Serial Number

...Parole Violator

•Public Vehiole Identification

Number

IRA.

[RACON

RÇA.

RCMP..

REBUCAB.

•Registration Act

..Racial Conditions

.....Red Cross Act

...Royal Canadian Mounted

Police

•Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram

REBULET.

REBURAD

•Reference Is Made to

Bureau Letter

•Referenos Is Made to

Buresu Radiogram

REBUTEL.

RECAB

RELET.

RERAD.

REREP

RETEL

REURAD:

REURCAB

REUREP

Referende Is Made to

Bureau Teletype or

Tole gram

Referenoe Is Made to

Cablegram

•Roferenoe Is Made. to

Lotter

• Referenoe Is Made to

Radiogram

Reference Is Made to

Report

• Reference Is Made to.

Teletype of Telegram

•Referende Is Made to Your

Radiogram

•. Reference Is Made to Your

Cablegram

Reference Is Made to Your

Report

REURLET

•Reference Is Made to Your

Letter

REURTEL

•Reference Is Made to Your

Teletype or Telegram

RECA.

• Reconstruction Finance

Corporation Act

RI...

......Raoial Informant

RUC.

•.Referred upon Completion

to office of origin

SA...

.......Special Agent

SAA.........Special Agent Aocountant

SAB.........Sabotage

SAC. ,.......Special Agent in Charge

(SB.

•Sports Bribery)

SBA...

•Small Business Administra-

tion

20

7-29-64

DocId: 32318831

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act gf 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

Consolidation of 11108, 11-7116

Contadto

American Legion,

Dews media,

II-6-9

I]-6-9

SAC, II-6-7 (See

slao

mith lan esporooment officiale,

II-6-50

Mith NA Graduated, II-1-7

Contracto,

II-7-17

Contributione los gists, 1-1-4

Control

2178: 1800 Ppo, Brou

saleguarding

•Intolliganoe

1a$0I

II-

157

or sick leave,

I-A-2b

"Controlled Dissed, "

apoojal control

marting,

11-4-57

Controversial 188ue8

dissemination of

information,

II-5-11

employeed sot to

Conviationa

1=9 partiolpoto 15,

report

verifloation

1110a6: "15a07

Coordination of

II-B-10

promotions

and

inoentire anardo,

I-6-4,9

Copies'

ot

airtels, I1-4-37

of

blind memoranda,

II-A- 34,35

of

correspondeace

between employee

and

VA

or BEC re

disability

to be

Ruraished Bureau,

of letterbead memorada,

1-0-73, 19: 21759-21, 34,35

empleyees

II-422,28,282;II-6-7

of reports,

Dot

of serials, destruction,

II-7-11b,110;

teletypes,

• ingle-pape

II-4-22,28,28a;

dorrecticos

expense

accounts, 11-7-5

communicationa, II-4-60

FD- 302,

II-A61

Correspondence (See also communiontions

and the apecifio type

copies not to

be

made for employeo,

1-1-5

correlation and preparation of by

apecial employees,

I-6-8

destruction of

routine

so p0210° 1-3-050, II-2-221

e speeob filer

1I-3-15

atations on. 1-4-3

+18820-p98609PY6 0994677-4-22,28,280;

1-14-11

bird party cas08, I-14-101

I-12-62

0110001112-6

• Motion tan, 11125

Costa

tomobile. I1-7-21

quenta for intornation.

Investigat1on0,

II-5-11

MANUAL OF RULIS AND RIGULATIONS

INDEX

ROSOTORODI DIO tO paTI, seCtiOn, and page.

Coungel

employing for 1n8t1tut12g

under

cla 1me

Federal

Imployees,

Compenastios

Aot,

I-14108

cable, agents

sitting at,

II-B-18

Courfer

dages,

offloe

II-4-7

of orig1s,

Course, National

Court

Aoademy, II-106

Презлогод, 19-8-8 4-3,4

demeaDor 1s,

Departmental

Ordar 324-64, II-B-11

leave,

of

appeals, airouit,

roTion of br101s

siled witb,

produation of

statements

II-8-22

and

reports of

mitseases, II-8-14

RCMP reporte

II-B-10

reoords,

verifyiag 0onr10t1000.

sentendes,

of.

by obook

II-Q10

reporting Information POS

produotion

1D,

II-GA

requests for reporto,

II-8-120

state

requests for

Fureau reporte for,

II-8-12a

testimony of/gents,11-8-178

training. II-1-?

testifying 10,

1I-1-2:II-8-10

aldo testimosy,

trials

• 19 (Se

of' Agents.

allegationa agajnot Bureau

personnel by subjects

of Bureau

cabes,

1-93

delay of,

II-B-16

TiBits

1-1-2; II-1-5

testimony of Agenta,

II-8-17&

trajning, II-1-?

Cover

letter

definition of,

II-4-1

not seceBgary

thes transnittise.

[I-4-31

senspaper olippings, II-6-5

setirement application, 1-15-1

pages.

II-4-7

accident reports,

I-13-5

briet to establish illogal status,

CPUSA,

II-4-12a

Communist Party, USA,

report, I1-2-12t071y

confidentially obtained 1nloreat1oe. "

Of person girlsE

definition of

II-A-1

explanation

FBINd

of delayed reporting,

cases,

information

FD-302, loostion of

007 17-1-06-43

13-2099,15

denurity daBes,

in addition to firat oorer pago,

1I-4-12

InformatIOn from InterDal ReTODUI

serrioe,

aouroe of

or Bunnary of in,

II-46

not to bé disseminated, II-A-1;

II-5-8

ag1n8,11-4012-17-8-11

serialization of, II-}

couroe of Iaformatios concealed

by I Bymbol on,

II-4-48, 128

not necessary to identily sources

DODGealed is Bureau-

approted aharacterizationa

II-A-1Z8, 22

11-4-26,27

typing and form of, IT-a'i

11-27-64

DocId: 32318831 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Agt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE? IT-11-2017

MANUAL OF RULIS AND REGULATIONS

INDEX

Referendea ase to part, section, and pare.

Reporte (continued)

of

ustnesses, production 0f, II-B-14

Resident agenties (continued)

opisions ol

register in,

II-2-8

registered mail

Agente

11-4-19

USA, II-4-20,11,18

Coontact

security checks

paging, II-424; II-8-1b

ol telephone and tolotype

11 nes

II-3-2

parole,

FOre, PRECES, 1I-912;11-8-1D

source of laformation 1ndez, II-6-7

personnel atatue,

I-16-1

special emplogees In,

1-6-8

physioal surreillances,

II-A18

telegraM charges, II-2-10

telepdone

Idontity of Agents on cover pago, II-A12a

pretext lantertion

explanation

8 rectorses,

II-2-10

II-2-9

of Agent on

Residest AgOntE

page,

producibility of agent's

prior

writtes, II-8-178

obecko

and

bods fоr, II-3-38

prosecutive

conditiona precedent to recommendation, II-2-a

quarterly,

CPUSA,

PUSA, 71-7-12a

II-4-19,26

onfirminE opinion of USA,

17-4-2c

reterence

II-4-10

ferent 112e Dumber under 1a isterolesco

responsibilities, II-?-11

reports, II-4-12

reliability of

qualifloatlone,

го сі та, 11-2-75,8

rocommendation

Informants, II-46,20,34,35

negative

contacts

with.

memoranda not

letterhead

DeCeBBATY,

I1-4-7

persons intertiened,

II-46

removal of administrative

reporting

orace, TreASy, 109808, 11-5-8

•up salon, 1-9-8, 19, 11-7-236

I-12-1,7 (See a180

from sertice.)

gossip in,

II-416

serialization of

oover

and

page(8), report,

letterhead memo,

II-3-7

stáce court requente to defense,

II-8-12

statements favorable

status,

II-4-4,16

II-410,16

stop notice,

II-418

summary,

II-4-26

II-46,123,19,20,21,27

synopsis

title

of

T1-47

typing,

FD-302,

I1-45

USA,

time

limits,

II-4-2c

Reproduction of material

Auzo-Stats, II-4-60

Bank currency securities, II-B-10

Bureau,

Photostats, II-4-60,

Reguests

for

deferred reportine date,

appointee, Indicolerical

for information

on

costs

re

of investigations, II-5-11

leare records,

I- 48a

from

congressional

re personal

committees,

II-5-5

references, I-1-1, 2;

I-16-8;

II-4-29

trausfer, I-12-1,la,2,3,4

transportation,

II-7-1 / See also

portation requests trass-

Requisitions, I1-7-19

Reservations

11-7-4

I-IA?

Reserve

component of armed forces,

for menbers

=111 tary leavo

members, FD295

report to relocation site in

emergency,

OffIcers Training Corps, lesTe fOr tralDing,

I-11-4

• Regidences,

visits

Rosident

"ences, t0-2-72

1-1-4

admi sis trative

files in,

II-2-11

ticklers,

I1-2-11

and resident Agents, II-2-7a

automobiles

record,

II-2-8; II-7-20a

security of, II-7-20a, 21b,210

obeck circulars,

II-2-11

confirming

opinion et USA, II-4-20

doors, II-2-9

firearms in,

II-2-10

inspection,

II-2-10

justification,

II-2-7a

keys to,

II-2-9

mcnographe not to be beld in, II-8-23

Restrictive worde or phrases, II-4-33

of Bureau naterial,

of property, acquired during investigations, II-8-19

of ex-servioemes, I-11-1,4

Retirement, Civil

Service, 1-15-1

(see also Civil Service

Retirement.)

Retraining sessions,

FBINA, II-I-12

Return

receipts

certified

nail, II-3-Ja

destruction of,

evidence.

II-2-11;II-3-15

II-8-22

registered nail,

II-3-2,15;

II-4-54

resident agencies

io forward to field

office, II-2-11

Touchers, II-7-5

Review

and appeal of performance rating, I-101

of briefs filed witt

circuit court

of appeals, II-8-22

of cases pending prosecution,

II-3-29

of identifioation

oards, II-?-ld

Revolvers,

where retained,

II-3-1a

Rewards (may not accept), I-1-4:I-16-4

Road

test,

I-13-1,2

failure of, I-13-3

regulations, operating

Government-owued

vebicle,

I-13-2

Road trip, II-2-11;II-45

Roadwork

Rough

DOI,

TI-3-17,18

drafts, II-4-5

Routine =11pg_1I52

II-4-50

PB-502, tranemattal of lotterhead nemo-

randa and anonynous letters

by, II-5-4,9;II-8-6a

111108, II-3-7a

publications, used to inforD Bureau so

a tatue

II-4-50; II-6-58

obanges

In and sotion se, I-11-5;

II-450g

"Royal Canadian Mounted Police? "

cade Letter acopy te's

II-8-26

leads 11 Casada,

Rules for grading tests,

I-B-Ia, 2,4,5,7

Rumor or 80B81P, 1920%

reportisg,

DocId:32318831 Page 6

29

---

