# docid-32175247

## Page 1

/Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992(41 USC 2107 Note) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10181-10343

RECORD SERIES: NO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-74-1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CONWAY, JAMES J.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/07/1960

PAGES: 120

SUBJECT: FPCC, ASSOC, FINANCE, RPT, AFFIL, CP, CASTRO, FIDEL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/03/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32175247 Page 1

---

## Page 2

'Released' under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 (41 U5C 2107 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

109774

Raport Ferm

:D-163 (712-85)

sting Orfice

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

FEDERAL BUREAU

SE ENVESTIGATION

Office of Origin

NEW YORK

Investigative Per10d

6/17/60

Report

rade by

4/26/60 - 5/23/60

Typed By:

JAMES J.

CONWAY

mx.]

CHARACTER OF CASE

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

Зупорsів:

REFERENCES

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

(ПК)

+29-96-9128148 mide

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSE

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X1, 6

Report of SA JAMES J. CONWAY at NY,

05 RmB/ISR

dated 4/25/60.

215441-134-94

ADMINISTRATIVE

based by 9803 R0/152

Background information with respect to the

JFK

captioned organization has been furnished to the Newark

Division by airtel.

It will be noted that the Bureau has instructed

that all leads regarding this matter are to be handled

expeditiously and the matter is to be given continued and

vigorous attention.

Approred

8pec

Agent

1n

Charge

or el - Bureau (07-1296) (PM)

2 - Baltimore

- BOStOn (RM

Do

not

1n

belov

9%

¼ф -

2

New Haven (RM)

New Orleans

Philadelphia (RM)

2 - Pittsburgh (RM)

SEVET

2 - Washington Field (97-1354) (RM)

3 - New York (97-IZASSIFIED AND

'ALL INTORNATT ON CONTAINED

HEREIN IS ACT

SSIFIED

EXCEPT THERE SHOWN

OTHErWISE.

IT ASON FO

JUN 1 3 1960

FOAM, 1, 1-

DATE OF F.

DECLASSIFICATION.

FOR J/21/90

4803

Property of FBI - This report 16 loaned

the egency to which loaned.

co-you by the FBi.

and

it nor

its

contents are to be distributed

DocId: 32175247

Page 2

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTINE OFFICE: 1956

5 385319

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECKLI

NY 97-1792

ADMINISTRATIVE (Cont 'd)

Leads are being set forth for offices covering

cities where bank accounts of persons contributing to the

these contributors.

Previous subversive or criminal activity

Investigation.

No additional investigation on these individuals

Is requested at this time since the purpose of this investi-

gation is to determine if the organization, its sponsors or

officers have incurred the responsibility to register under

this determination.

No further investigation is set forth for SID LENS,

ROBERT COLONY Or ELVA DE PUE MATTHEWS, since they are described

in the details or administrative pages of referenced report.

INFORMANIS

Identity of Source

Location

NY I-1

JOHN MICHAEL SHAY,

4525 Henry Hudson

Parkway, Riverdale,

Information re

RICHARD GIBSON

Information re

BERTA PLA

Instant report,

page 12

Instant report,

page 47

NY T-2

( 1196-5*J(5)

WALDO FRANK

97-1792-82

WALDO FRANK

departing NYC

for Havana,

Cuba,

4/28/60

_B-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

97-1792-98

DocId: 32175247 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SCUEA

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont'a)

Identity of Source

NY I-2 (Cont'd)

Location

97-1792-93

ROBERT TABER

arriving in

Havana,

Cuba,

4/7/60

WALDO FRANK

sent letter to

"El Mundo"

and

(S)

"Revolucion"

SOKOLSKY article

and information

from MAJORIE RIOS

Information re

¿CONTE AGUERO and

MANUEL, BEATON

"BOB" ordered to

appear before the

Senate Internal

Security Committee

Information re

OLGA FINLAY and

FARRELL DOBBS

(S

Information re

LUIS CARBONELI

Message of

MARJORIE DE

RIOS to ROBERTO

97-1792-55

97-1792-98

97-1792-60

97-1792-64

97-1792-88

97-1792-89

97-1792-91

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY. 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont 'đ)

Identity of source

NY I-2 (Cont'a)

NY T-3

WE 3311-S*

Locattor

97-1792-73

BEALS unable to

leave US

Cuban Charge

d'Affairs to

determine 1f

WALDO FRANK

would accept

invitation

from Cuban

President

TABER would

depart NYC,

4/29/60

97-1792-65

(5)

97-1792-65

NY I-4

PI-S 106

NY I-5

Anonymous source

NY I-6

Confidential

St. Louis,

Missouri

NY I-7

NY 711-S

NY 7-8

NY 2481-S

NY I-

WF 1047-s

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

WF 100-2941-Sub

1A (27)

SECRET

=D-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32175247 Page 5

---

## Page 6

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont 'a)

Identity of Source

Iocation

NY T- 10

EMMA ROBINSON

97-1792-67

(Former WE 760-S,

deceased)

NY T-11

BU 206-$

97-1792-67

NY I-12

BU 205-S

97-1792-67

NY I-13

ENY 559-5*7(U)

[234-100-20251(8)(4)

NY I-14

NY 2494-54] (5)

97-1792-

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be con-

cealed.

LEADS

BALTIMORE

At Baltimore, Maryland

Will check office indices for identifying

information on ENRIQUE OF EUGENE NOBLE.

BOSTON

At Boston, Massachusetts

Will check office indices for identifying

Information on W. E. HOCKING and THEODORE BROMELL.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

/DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

LEADS (Cont'd)

NEWARK

At South Orange, New Jersey

As previously set forth in NY airtel, will attempt

to locate bank account for ALAN SAGNER, believed to be a

,If the account is located, will

review the account from 4/1/60 to the present for any deposits

of 52, 000.00 or $5,000.00. ₴

Any deposits In this anount should

be closely checked

to,

if possible, determine if the money

may have come from the Cyban Government or a representative

of the Cuban Government. (5)

Also, any checks written on the account which

may be of interest in the investigation of this matter should

be reviewed.

Particular attention should be paid to any

checks written to ROBERT TABER, The Fair Play For Cuba

Committee, or the "New York Times"

The accounts ledger sheets and average balance

card should be reviewed and information contained thereon

furnished to the NY Office.

At Newark, New Jersey

Will review office indices for identifying

Information on ADDIE I. WEBER.

NEW HAVEN

At New Haven, Connecticut

W1l1 check office indices for identifying

information on KATHERINE B. FAULKNER.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEUNLI

NY 97-1792

LEADS (Cont 'a)

NEW ORI.EANS

At New Orleans, Loulsiana

Will review indices for identifying information

on J. I. DUNTAP.

PHILADELPHIA

At Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Will check office indices for any identifying

information concerning ANNE MONTGOMERY, CHARLES C. SHAW,

and NANCY SHAW.

PITYSBURGH

At Pittsburgi, Pennsylvania

Will check indices for identifying information

on CHARLES H. and KATHERINE GEORGE, DOROTHY H. COLONY, and

LESLIE A. FAIGMEL.

WASHINGION FIELD

At Washington, D.C.

Will

continue to monitor accounts of the Cuban

ambassy e

2.

continue to follow the activities of The

Fair Play For Cuba Committee and its members, through

established sources.

- G -

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 8

---

## Page 9

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of '1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

LEADS (Cont'a)

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1.

Will continue to follow and report the activities

of the FPCC and its members.

of members 01 con me to at tent to to the ban acounts

3.

Will review accounts of individuals listed in

the attached report who may be paying money to the FPCC

or receiving money for the FPCC.

4.

Irving

Trust Company, NYC, to determine 1f she is identical

with SILVIA SHELTON,

an employee of the Cuban Permanent Mission S

to the UN.] If so, will review her account for information

pertinent to this investigation.

5.

Will attempt to locate the printing company

printing material for the FPCC and determine who is paying

for this material.

Will check indices for identifying information

on RUDY CORREA, JAMES K.

COGSWELL III, VIRGILIO BONACCI,

HOWARD C. WATSON, JOSEPH MDEPOO (?), ABE WEISBURD, and

GEORGE F. NELSON.

CLASSIFICATION

This report has been classified "secret" due

since it indicates

- H-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)

Bureau interest in foreign diplomatic establishments and

personnel of these establishments, and to protect the sources

of continuing value, whose disclosure might be detrimental to

the national defense.

Information on FD 302'g.

- The following individuals furnished information regarding

the bank accounts

of the individuals indicated.

Account of

offical

Fair Play For Cuba

Elbert R. Williams, Assü. Mgr.

Committee

Chase Manhätsan Bank,

NYC

Madison Ave. & 57th St. NYC

Robert Taber

J.N. Danella, Branck Mgr:

Chemical Bank New York Trust Co.

Blst & Columbus Ave. NYC

Richard T. Gibson

Walter Lankenan, Head Bkkp.

Chase Manhattah

Bank, Rocker-

feller Branch, NYC.

Elizabeth Barad

John Baratta, Asst. Mgr.

Irving Trust Co. Branch Bank

Woolworth Bldg. NYC

5)

John C. Ma: Cormack, Vice. Pres

Riggs National Bank, Wash-

ington, D.C.

(Manuel Bisbe] (5)

Robert Fecteu, Chase Man-

hattan Bank, Lexington Ave.

43rd St. NYC.

- I-

COVER PAGE

SEGRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECKED

NY 97-1792

Raul Roa (5)

Carlos rachuga](5)

Thomas Good, Manufacturers

Trust Co. 57ch St. & 5th Ave.

NYC

John I. O'Neill, Asst. Vice

Pres. Manufacturers Irust Co.

43rd & 5th Ave. NYC

The identities of theschindividuals is indicated on the

origionals of the FD 302s which are maintained by the NYO.

It is not necessary tö

subpoena the individuals indicated

but any officer of the bank.

-J*-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released um5r204 78br,F. enedR Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

' JUSTICE

Federal Bureau of Investigation

S-E-C-R-E-T

Copy to:

Repost of:

JAMES J. CONWAY

Date:

6/7/50

File Number: New York 97-1792

Bureau 97-4196

Title:

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

office: New York, New York

Character:

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

05 km /ISK

2-15-04

-

513-94

Cassited by

9803 RDD/KSR

Declassity can:

ofOR

JFK)

Synopsis:

Bank account for the FPCC and bank accounts

of officers of this committee reviewed but

nothing of significance was noted.

Committee has office in Room 411, 60 East

40th Street, NYC,

where mail is

received.

Attempts to locate bank account for Cuban

Permanent Mission to the UN negative.

Accounts of the Cuban Mission

members and employees reflected nothing

of significance.

Source advised that

WALDO FRANK signed a contract with the

Cuban Government.

FRANK, BRUCE TABER,

and CARLETON BEALS scheduled to depart

for Havana, Cuba, on 4/28 and 29/60.

BEALS advised that he was

"forcibly

prevented" from visiting Havana duer

to a subpoena. is)

JFK +29-96-9729198 nude

ATT INFORMATION CONTAINED

Details:

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLDIKSR

HERE IN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/, 6

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTFERRISE.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

SNE- C-R-E-T

EXTENNED BY. 5P-5 RJ6/KH

4/21/50

DECLASSIFICATTON..

DocId: 32175247 Page 12

---

## Page 13

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Office of FPCC

New York City, reflected that the FPCC

that this room is occupied by the Morris Service Company

which subleases desk space and acts as a mail receiving

office and telephone operating service for various companies

and individuals.

The principal listed for the FPCC at this

office is R. B. TABER. It was learned that Miss ELIZABETII

SAMMONS is the Renting Agent: for the Morris Service Company

at this address.

Attempts to Locate

Bank Accounts for

Cuban Permanent

Mission to United

Nations (UN)]S)

(s) Con April

26, 1960, the following New York City

banks were checked in an attempt to locate bank accounts

for the Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN.

These checks

were made under the names, Cuban Permanent Mission to the

UN, Cuban Delegation to the UN, Delegation of Cuba to the

UN, and cuban UN Delegation.

No bank accounts were located

under any of these names at the following banks

Manufacturers Trust Company

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company

Irving Trust Company

Chase Manhattan Bank

First National City Bank of New York

- 14 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210% Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

the office of the Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN were

canvassed in an attempt to locate an account for thi:

(5)

Mission but no account could be found.

Chat on May 12,

- 1960, Mr. RAYMOND BELAND, of the Bankers

Irust company, advised that his bank solicited the accoun

of the Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN but were advised

that tie pission has so benl acaount in tie ulltod state(s)

The Consul General of Cuba account at the First

National City Bank of New York is an account used primarily

'or the parment ot

I this Consulate, (Sonsulate expenses and salaries of employees

The Consulate Generale de Cuba and the Consulate

Generale de Cuba Invoices are accounts used as clearing

accounts for the handling of funds in connection with imports

and exports between Cuba and the United States.

The former

account is closed at the

end of each month by issuing a

check to the Manufacturers Trust Company for the balance

in the account at the month's ends.

A review of these accounts failed to reflect a

$5,000.00 or $2,000.00 deposit or withdrawal (5)(u)

SECRET

- 15 -

DocId: 32175247 Page 14

---

## Page 15

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET

Date_ May 26, 1960

On May 2, 1960,

a confidential source of information

advised that a review of

the following bank accounts maintained

py the cuban Embassy in washington, D.C., were reviewed for the

month of April, 1960.

to disclose that any

funds were furnished

to the Committee or any known sponsors of

this Committee.

Embassy of Cuba

Consulate of Cuba

Cuban Military Attache's Office

Cuban Naval Attache's Office

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena is to be issued to

any official of the Riggs National. Bank, Washington, D.C.

SECRET

File #_ 97-1792

Date Dictated 5/2/60

5/2/60

0 at

Washington, D.C.

by Special Agent

ANDREW J. SHANNON: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32175247 Page 15

---

## Page 16

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Attempts to Locate

Bank Accounts/for

Members of Cuban

Permanent Mission

to the UN 71S

The UN publication entitled, "Members of Permanent

Missions to the United Nations Entitled to Diplonatic Privileges

and Immuties"

, dated March, 1960, reflected the following indi-

viduals as members of the Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN:

DI. MANUEL BISHE

305 East 72nd Street

New York City

RAUL PRIMELLES

155 East 44th Street

New York City

Dr. CARLOS BLANCO

28 East 70th Street

New York City

TERESA CAGUSO-MARIN

306 East 72nd Street

New York City

RAUL J. ROA

115 Pryer Terrace

New Rochelle, New York

CARLOS M. LECHUGA

240 East 76th Street

New York City

SILVIA SHELTON

201 West 89th Street

New York City

- 17 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 16

---

## Page 17

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

JOSEFINA GARCIA SIERRA

201 West 89th Street

New York City

ISAPEL FIGUEREDO

The Beacon Hotel

75th Street and Broadway

New York City

MARIO FERNANDEZ-SANDE

Hotel Stanford

43 West 32nd Street

New York City

SECRET

• - 18 -

DocId: 32175247 Page 17

---

## Page 18

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302' (Rev. 3-3-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INVESTIGATION

Interview report

SECRET Date

May 26, 1960

that his branch of the Chase Manhattar

maintains a regular checking

Bank, New

York City,

The account was opened on february 11, 1959.

The balances on March 31, 1900 and April 21, 1900, were

$226.26 and $225.99; respectively.

The deposits

totaled

$2,041.12, and withdrawals totaled $2,415.13.

8S (U)

On April 6, 1960, a check in the amount of

$3,484.25 was presented at the bank for distribution as

LOLLOWS.

(4)

$2,025.00 was deposited in the above checking

account, $600.00

was deposited in a savings account; and

the balance was in cash.

The source was unable to adva

the bank on which this

check was drawn (5S (u)

An examination of the ledger

reflects a charge

in the amount of $616.12 on April 13, 1950, which was the

period were small three digit amounts. (

largest charge for the period. other mou

during the

The balances for the account

on April 29, 1960

and May 11, 1900, were $225.99 and $10.00, respectively.

There were no deposits and withdrawals totaled $215.99.

(4)

An examination of the cancelled checks

reflected

nothing pertinent.

The average balance in the accourt between

February, 1959 and March, 1960 was a low four digit figure. (lu)

SECRET

File # 97-1792

5/13/00

u at

422 Lexington Ave., NYC Date Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents

GABRIEL. J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

14°

DocId: 32175247 Page 18

---

## Page 19

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

In addition to the above checking account,

BISBE maintains a savings account, number 28-5280, in the

was $2,046.53.

December,

Average deposits during the period from

1959 through April, 1960, were a low three digit

figure.

The signature card for the savings account

reflects the residence as 3o5 bast Tana street and plac

of employment as 155 East™

44th Street, both New York City

MANUEL was born on December 20, 1902,

and GRAZIELLA' was

born on January 8, 1911, both In CubalS)

BISBE's credit file reflects that he maintains

an account with the First National City Bank of New YOrk,

Havana Branch Number 035•

Reference was listed as CARLOS

BLANCO, Cuban Delegate to the United Nations (UN).

The above infcimation should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena should be directed

tO GERALD VAN DORN,

Protection Officer, Chase Manhattan

Banis, 30 Pine Street, New. York City.

-20 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-59)

FEDERAI, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET

Date

May 26, 1960

A confidential source advised on May 11, 1960,

that his branch oi the Manuracturers Trust Company, New

York

City, has a checking account or RAUL ROA, 207 East 44th

Street, Apartment 1108, New

Pork City, Account Number 5-27679 5)

The balances in the account on May 1 and 10, 1960,

were $4,409.47 and $3,148.76, respectively.

Depogits totaled

$1,406.14 and withdrawals

totaled $2,066.05.

(и)

On May 5, 1960, the account was charged $1,895.60,

which was a certified check payable to the Ford Motor Company.

Other charges to the account reflect payments for rent, brokerage

fees, Diner's Club, and other personal business expenses.

reflects a depositof

A deposit ticket dated May 3 amount of 11, 027.84 and

two checks in the

$378.30.

The larger check was drawn against the First National

City Bank of New Yorle,

but it was

not possible to determine the

source of the

smaller check.

The above information

should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena should be directed

to any official of the Manufacturers Trust Company, New York

City.

File #

97-1792

Manufacturers Trust Co.

on 5/11/60

at Branch, 57 St. & 5th Ave., NYC Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents GABRIEL J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is

the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency:

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 20

---

## Page 21

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

• FD-302 (Rev. 3-3=59)

FEDERAL, BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

CECRET

Date -

May 26, 1960

A confidential source at Manufacturers Trust

Company, New York City, advised

on May a, 1900, that CARLOs

LECHUGA maintains

a joint checking account with his wife,

GLADYS

IAUDERMAN, 155 East 44th Street, Room 201, New York

City:

the account was opened on March 10, 1959, with

a deposit of $1,131.57.

There was no activity in the accounc

and the balance

on March 2, 1960, was $760.18.

The average

balance in the account from March, 1959 to

February, 1960,

reflects a medium three digit amount.

N(4)

The signature card reflects LECHUGA

is a Cuban

Delegate to the united Nations (UN), telephone number YU 6-8026(5)

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena should be directed

to any official of the Manufacturers Trust Company, New York

City.

SECRET

File # 97-1792

on 5/11/60 at 43rd St. & 5th Ave., NYC

Date Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents GABRIEL J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

It and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

-22-

DocId: 32175247 Page 21

---

## Page 22

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

"Cuba, without love; and no one can see and feel what 1s

happening here in cuba, without acting. So that, in a deep

ways

every witness to

the great work you have led and are

leading becomes a soldier in your army of free men and

women - your army of 'Rebeldes'

against the rotten world

which my generation bequeathed to yours, for you to recreate.

come.

myself as a humble member of your company. For we have the

same enemies and the same Goal.

"Here in Cuba, I have seen love at work. For the

Joy of this revolution,

I shall always be graterul to you,

Fidel Castro.

"Perhaps you know that our word 'Good-bye' means

'God-be-with-you'.

So I say Good-bye to Cuba and to you.

Henceforth my heart will be here; and my best thoughts.

"Devotedly Yours

"Waldo Frank"

On. May 6, 1960, NY I-2 learned that WALDO FRANK

had signed a contract with the Cuban Government for an

unstated purpose.

cata be earla to the unite at teed to ham by the

The source also learned that recently, while in

Havana, Cuba, FRANK left copies of the contract

wIth

ARMANDO HART, Cuban Minister of Education.

and requested

che

Cuban Government to advise him if this

a doverment to

FRANK preferred

contract with the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations

was possible.s

SECRET

-30 -

DocId: 32175247 Page 22

---

## Page 23

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) -

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

On May 12, 1960, NY I-2 advised that as a special

• service to Prensa Latina, a Cuban news agency, WAI,DO FRANK

had written an article entitled "The Süate of Mind in Cuba"

The source advised that the article was published In newspapers

toward the

Cuban Government and

the people of Cuba.

On April 26, 1960, NY I-2 learned that WALDO FRANK

was departing New York City for Havana, Cuba, on April 20,

According to the informant, FRANK would be in Havana

until May 1, 1900. CRANK was desirous of an interview with

ARMANDO HART, Cuban Minister of Education on April 29, 1960.

It was also requested that RUDOLFO WALSH Of Prensa Latina

meet FRANK at the airport in Havana, on April 28, 1960.

According

to the source, the Cuban Foreign Ministry was

requested to have Cubana Airlines authorize the New York office

of that company to issue a round trip ticket to FRANkS)

On April 27, 1960, NY T-3 advised that ENRIQUE

PATTERSON, Charge a' Affaires, Cuban Embassy, Washington,

D.C., had received instructions from Havana to Immediately

one a harre don

determine whether WALDO FRANK would accept an invitation

extended to him by cuban President OSVALDO DORTICOS A SI

According to NY I-3, PATTERSON Stated that FRANK

-waS

leaving for Havana, Cuba on

I April 20, 1960, also that

CARLETON BEALS and ROBERT TABER were departing for Havana

on April

нау 2, 1960.

1950.

All three would return from Cuba on

On April 28, 1960, Miss ELIZABETH HIRSCH of Cubana

Airlines, New York City, advised that her records reflect

that WALDO FRANK was scheduled to depart from Idlewild

Airport, New York,

to Havana, Cuba, aboard Cubana Airlines

Flight 999 on April 29, 1960.

She

advised that CARLETON BEALS

and ROBERT TABER have reservations on April 20, 1960. Miss

HIRSCH advised that she has no infornation with respect to who

made the reservations or who paid for the tickets for these

individuals.

SECRET

• 31 -

DocId: 32175247 Page 23

---

## Page 24

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

ACTIVITIES OF ROBERT TABER

On April 1, 1960, NY I-2 learned that ROBERT TABER

would arrive *a Havana, Cuba on that date aboard Cubana Airlines

Flight 999.

According to che informant, TABER's return passage

to New York

Ity had not been arranged and che cuban Foreign

Ministry was supposed to make arrangements for this

passage. iS

On April 21, 1960, NY I-2 received Information that

CROBERTO had requested

ment of Information, Cuban Foreign Ministry:

ROBERTO desired to know why the Cuban Government

had expelled RICHARD B. BATE, newsman for the Columbia Broad-

casting System (CBS), from Cuba. According to ROBERTO, BATE hac

stated that morning

that he was expelled due to the fact that

he had an appointment with RAMON CASTRO, brother of FIDEL,

CASTRO, the Prime Minister of Cuba, also that RAMON CASTRO

had disappeared and supposedly left Cuba.

According to

ROBERTO, BATE had also stated he had spoken with various

counter-revolutionaries in Cuba and from his impressions

of them BATE believed that another civil war would soon

start in Cuba.

BATE stated that many revolutionary soldiers

Were not sure whather they should still support sIDal castro

According to the source, on April 21, 1960, (ROBERTO

was advised by RIOS

that she would forward information to him

concerning BATE and told him not to worry about

the rebel

soldiers because they are loyal to CASTRo.] (5)

On April 22, 1960, the informant advised that ROBERTO

had been told by RIOS

that she had no official information

regarding statements made by BATE.

She did say, however, that

the comments by BATE concerning RAMON CASTRO were "completely

wild. "

In this regard she referred to a press release

containing statements alleged to have been made by RAMON CASTRO.

In this release RAMON CASTRO stated that BATE had furnished

false Information inasmuch as he, CASTRO, was not outside of

It was stated that CASTRO

was attending the National

Assembly

cuba.

¿sane aronera as a delesate tron Or'ente Provinces

-32 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 24

---

## Page 25

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

further injormation concerning RAMON CASTRO was

furnished to ROBERTo on April 25, 1960, by RIOS. It was stated

at that time that RAMON CASIRO was in Havana staying at the

Hotel Eristol. It was stated that highly placed persons in

the Cuban Foreign Ministry had conversed personally with

RAMON CASTRO on April 22,

This information was

Furnished a evident 2 he fact the norma sun in cuba 5)

on April 25, 1960, ROBERTO had requested that RIO.

arrange to send clippings of any information which could be

published. He stated that twice during the last week he had

missed the opportunity of "scooping" other papers with regard

to RAMON CASTRO's story and the declarations of Cuban Foreign

Minister RAUL ROA. According to ROBERTO, 7this was due to

fact that the information was passed to him too slowly

the (5)

On April 26, 1960, ROBERTO was advised that the Cuban

Government could expect strong opposition in the near future

due to the expropriation of land belonging to the United Fruit

Company.

The following is a summary of material rurnishe

CO ROBERTO and he was asked to advise

whether the "releases"

were of suitable length and content:

The United Fruit Company will be paid $6,118,047.00

for 272, 000 acres

of expropriated land in Oriente Providence

Cuba.

The veteran

Argentine Socialist Leader, ALFREDO

PALACIOS,

will arrive in Havana In the near future as a

guest of the Cuban Government to obtain firsthand

Information on the Cuban Revolution. It was also stated

that the Panama newspaper "Critica"

condemns the United

States' attitude toward Cuba.

(5)

Cuban President OSVALDO DORTICOS declared that

Generalissimo RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO of the Dominican Republic,

who is never attacked by the United States, did not dare to

place arns Into the hands of his people since he realizes

that they would be used against him.

SECAST

- 33 -

DocId: 32175247 Page 25

---

## Page 26

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

The twenty-two Venezuelan farmers who captured

the Venezuelan traitor JESUS MARIA CASTRO JEON will be

invited to

join the May I, 1950, celebration In Havana,

JOSE M. MOURE, ex-President of the Association of

Latin American Travel Agents, after attending the third

congress of this organization in Havana, praised the Cuban

Revolution and FIDEL CASTRO. (S)

Construction is underway for a national park in

the vicinity of the Sierra Maestra peak Gran Pledra, which

will Include forests, gardens, a hotel, cabanas, hunting

and fishing facilities in an area covering nearly 17,000 acres

It will be noted that on May 17, 1960, JON SPELLER,

33 West 42nd Street, New York City, advised that he had been

cuba during the week of May 9, 1960.

SPELLER stated that in

Cuba he met JUNE COBB, an American who works for the CASTRO

Government in the office of Cuban Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

SPELLER stated that according to COBB, MAJORIE RIOS

Cuban Government"

On April 21, 1960, NY I-2 advised that an individual

known only to him as ROBERTO requested the Cuban Foreign

Ministry to furnish him biographic and personal information

sheet"

the

of articles concerning these persons

(S)

for the

"Facto

= 34-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 26

---

## Page 27

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

On April 22, 1960, NY I-2 advised that the following

data was furnished to ROBERTO concerning CONTE AGUERO: (5)

The Heed of the public Relations Department of

the cuban Foreign Ministry, ANIONIO DE LA OSA, described

CONTE AGUERO as a traitor to his country. It was said

that this person was in the service of the worst

International interests which are fighting against Cuba,

and he was also on the side of the former Cuban dictator,

FULGENCIO SATISTA and RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO Of the Dominican

Republic.

of America"

"TRUJILLO was described by OSA as the "nausea &

It was stated that CONTE AGUERO departed Cuba

after promoting a misleading campaign in which he reiterated

the worn out argument of the enemies of Cuba by saying

that a grave communist infiltration was gaining control

of the Cuban Government.

The arguments of CONTE. AGUERO

were described as being copied word for word from the

assertions of the White Rose, an organization opposed to Cuban

Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

The arguments of CONTE AGUERO

were also stated to have been copied from

other "group interests'

that have conspired against cuba.

CASTRO in a recent television interviews alleged

to have exposed the

• treacherous intentions of CONTE AGUERO'S

campaign and its antecedents,.

Ii was stated that CONTE

AGUERO completed his actions

in this regard by seeking

asylum in a foreign embassy in Havana.

His purpose in doing

that he was being persecuted

It was stated that CONTE AGUERO was never a

revolutionary.

He had tried by all means within his reach

to make the Cuban revolutionary movement fail during the

period of the war against BATISTA. He did this by spreading

discouragement and fatalism among the rebels. It was

further stated that he participated in a maneuver which was

designed to force the Orthodox Party of Cuba to take part

in the "mock elections" held by BATISTA.

-35 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 27

---

## Page 28

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SARDET

NY 97-1792

It was related that CONTE AGUERO did not take

much time toopenly confess his compliclty with "war criminals"

and other enemies of Cuba.

In the

"Diario de Nueva York!s"

edition of April 12, 1950, his picture appeared with an

article which he wiote for RAUL ACOSTA RUBIO. ACOSTA RUBIO WaS

then described as having eluded Cuban justice and as an

influential man during the BATISTA dictatorship.

the same time, CONTE AGUERO admitted his allegiance to the

international

conspiracy against Cuba by repeating to

the United Press International news agency the infamous

assertion that the Cuban revolution is a communis

At that time he further stated that he would

write two books concerning cuba, and it was stated that

both would be published and distributed utilizing the

money that BATISTA, TRUJILLO and other foreign

Interests

contribute to the conspiracy against cuba.

(u)

On the same date, the informant advised that

the following infornation was furnished to RoBERtO concerning

MANUEL BEATON:

BEATON was described as a Cuban from the Sierra

Maestra who joined the rebel forces near the end of the

war against BATISTA and attained the rank of Captain.

He was described as a violent and undisciplined individual

who lacked sound revolutionary sense.

и)

BEATON was placed under arrest and at the

disposition of military tribunals.

He subsequently escaped

from La Cabana Fortress with the help of an officer

from the fortress guard who is now also under arrest.

It is known in Cuba that he has reached the zone of Agua al

Reves in the Sierra Maestra where he was born and with

which he 1s very familiar.

Since escaping, BEATON has

united with a group of fugitives from justice, counter-

revolutionaries and former enemies of the BATISTA army

which was dissolved. These groups have organized an

insignificant band dedicated to robbery and the

mistreatment of the

"country people."

In Uvero, BEATON

assassinated the elderly PANCHO TAMAYO who had been

an efficient collaborator of the CASTRO forces during

the war against BATISTA.

(u)

- 37 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 28

---

## Page 29

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

On April 28, 1950,

NY T-? learned that (the Cuban (S)

Foreign Ministry was advised that "Bob" and another unidentiried

nember of the FPCC had been ordered to appear for testimony

before the United States Senate Internal Security Sub Committee.

According to the

source, they were ordered to appear on April

28, 1960.

On May 9, 1900, NY T-2 advised that RAUL ROA of

the Cuban Permanent Mission to the United Nations was advised

by MARCELO FERNANDEZ FONT, Under Secretary, Cuban Foreign

FERNANDEZ TONE

Ministry, that in accordance with agreements with "Bob!'

passage

was authorized for OLGA FINIA on May 10, 1960.

FINLA was to

arrive in Havana, via Cubana Airlinese

to FERNANDEZ to received instructions.

ang was to report

The source advised on May 9, 1960, that MARJORIE

DE RIos sent the following message to ROBERT throtten the

Cuban United Nations Mission: S

"In a press release dated April 15, 1960, at New

York, Prensa Latina quoted Farrell Dobbs,

• candidate for the

United States presidency under the Socialist Workers Party as

stating 'friends and partisans of the ex-Dictator Batista are

maintained on the payrolls of the Department of State to

ald in counter-revolutionary activities against Cuba. (S)

RIOS desired to know whether this information could

be verified. It was stated that the

above was released upon

DOBBs return from a visit to Cuba. (5)

In the Interview wherein the above statement was made

DOBBS also said "Cuba is a small country anxious to maintain

Itself outside of the fire in which the powers are involved.'

He was also alleged to have said "in my opinion the preoccupation

of the Cuban people under the intentions or policies of the

Department of State are well founded. Herter seems to be

following the pattern traced by Dulles for Latin America." (S)

-41 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 29

---

## Page 30

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

Accoraing to the source, RIOS further inforned

ROBERT that she

would advise him about the book as soon as

Alsolshe desired to know from ROBERT whethen S

they could appeal to the Quakers American Friends Service

Committee. She

stated that this committee had people in

Cuba during the

revolution and

she had seen one very

favorable letter from them.

On May 10, 1960, NY T-2 advised that an individual

Known only to him as CELIA, whom he belleved to be with the

Cuban United Nations Mission, had requested that an individual

known only as RENE of the Cuban Foreign Ministry, Havana,

contact "Commentator. LUIS CARBONELI," on the behalf of

ROBERT. RENE was to request CARBONELI, to contact "Bob" collect

on the

morning of May 11, 1960, concerning CARBONELL's trip

to

New York city.

-The telephone number of ROBERT was furnished

as Plaza 5-2119. (S)

It will be noted that the above telephone number 1s

Ilsted to the Consulate of Cuba, New York CityS)

On May 11, 1960, NY I-2 advised that MARJORIE DE

RIOS of the Cuban Foreign

Ministry sent a message for ROBERTO

in which she suggested that their personal messages be numbered

in the future

MARJORIF suggested

a book entitled "progesos en Materia de Reforma

Agraria" holpful. She explained, that the book was published

about six years

ago by the United Nations and concerns Agrarian

Reform.

It was suggested that he take note of recommendations

of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,

13th Session (1951), which approved a resolution "recomnending

the implementation of Agrarian Reforms in favor of agricultural

workers without

land"

It was suggested that ROBERTO should

pay particular attention to page 73 of the above-mentioned

book and concluded that "United States Agrarian Reform in

Japan paid only In bonds, longer term, lower interest than

Cuba"

With respect to ROBERT,

"Bob" and ROBERTO as set

forth above, It will be noted that ROBERT TABER is a sponsor

, and Secretary of the FPCC.

SU)

- 42 --

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 30

---

## Page 31

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"*..

NY 97-1792

that he i

As previously set forth in this report on April

27, 1960, NY I-3 advised that ENRIQUE PATTERSON, Charge d'

Affaires,

Cuban Embassy, Washington, D.C., stated that ROBERT

TABER would depart New York City for Havana, Cuba,

do so, ar team so ter tont die in are los

ACTIVITIES OF CARLETON BEALS

On April 29, 1900, NY I-2 Learned that CARLETON BEAL

had been unable to leave the Unitad States for Cuba on Apri

29, 1960, as he had previously planned.

The source advised

that BEALS informed

the Cuban Government that he had been

"forcibly prevented" from going to Cuba to meet with Latin

American writers et the invitation of Cuban President OSVALDO

DORTICOS, since he had received a "24 hour subpoena" from the S

United States Senator JAMES EASTLAND.

According to the source

BEALS stated that he had been commanded to appear

before che

Senate Judiciary Committee on April 30, 1960.

CHARACTERIZATION OF ROBERT F. WILLIAMS

The

following is a characterization of one ROBERT

F. WILLIAMS of Monroe, North Carolina, who may be identical

with one of the sponsors of the FPCC:

On April 10, 1950, NY I-4

advised that ROBERT F.

WILLIAMS attended a Communist Party (OP) meetinguhich was

held in the headquarters office of the CP, USA, District

22, Charleston, West Virginia, in April, 1950.

According

to the source, WILLIAMS was a student at West Virginia State

College Institute, West Virginia, at the

Communism to other students at the school.

i a war teasings

On June 15, 1955, WILLIAMS VOluntarily appeared at

the Charlotte Office of the FBI, at which time he denied ever

who were members and who

He said at

one time that he was invited by the

• "Michigan Edition of the

Daily Worler" to become a member of the "Daily Worker" starf

in New York. He also stated that while he was in the State

of West Virginia, he made a speech befo = the Open Forum, which

- 43 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 31

---

## Page 32

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

pertained to the Negro situation and following this speech

an organizer of the CP of West Virginia offered him a free

subscription to the "Dally Worker"

He stated that in 1953,

he was selected to attend the Jefferson School of Social

Sciences in New York City. He advised that he attended one

session of classes at the school and it was his observation

that the information being taught at the school was not "good"

and he discontinued his attendance.

He did not elaborate

on his statement that the information being taught was not

"good".

On February 29, 1956, NY 1-5 advised

that on that

date WILLIAMS had contacted the Soviet Embassy In Washington,

D.C., and requeste

that he be allowed to enter and live in

the Soviet Union.

On February 2, 1959, NY I-6 made

available a piece

of the Commíttee to Combat Racial Injustice letterhead

stationary which reflected that WILLIAMS was President of

the Union County,

North Carolina, National Association for

the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and was Chairman

of the Committee to Combat Racial Injustico (CCRI) •

Or December 19, 1953, NY IT Was the

CCRI was set up in order

to concern itself mainly with the issue

involving the conviction and incarceration of two Negro youths,

DANIEL EZZELL SIMPSON, age eight, and HANOVER GRISSOM THOMPSON,

age ten, at Monroe, North Carolina. According to the source,

the boys were allegedly convicted on a charge of kissing a

white girl.

According to this source, the CCRI also concerned

itself with several other racial incidents which occurred

in the southern part of the United States and intends to become

a permanent organization, which will concern itself with racial

incidents.

The source had stated that the CCRI was initiated

through the efforts of the Socialist workers Party which party

was the motivating

force in the formation of the organization.

-4444-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 32

---

## Page 33

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotels

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

CUBAN CONSULATE. INTEREST IN EPCC

On April 6, 1960, NY I-14 advised that Dr. ANTONIO

(5)

obtaining from 1,000 to 3,000 reprints of

by the FPCC in the "Times" on that date.

"ad" placed

NY I-I advised, that he does not know the purpose of this

printed matter,

but believes that PLA is distributing it

Interested parties.

NY I-1 stated that the printed matter

consists of reprints of the "ad" appearing in the

"New

York

TImes" of April 6, 1960, sponsored by the EPCC as

well as

applications for membership in the FPCC.

On May 17, 1960, MrS. JILL GALIER, Registration

Section, Internal Security Division, United States Department

of Justice, advised SA HERBERT J. MORGAN, J...

that she could

find no record indicasing that captioned committee was registerer

as an agent of a foreign principal.

On May 17, 1960, MIs. ULDA ELDRED Of the above

Registration Section, advised SA MORGAN that she had no iniorma-

tion indicating that correspondence had been received from the

above committee or persons connected with the committee.

SECRET

- 47-

DocId: 32175247

Page 33

---

## Page 34

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107"Hote) Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

port Form

+973 (9-12-561)

FEDERAL BUREASON

Office of 0r1g1n

NEW YORK

INVESTIGATION

porting offier

NEW YORK

TLE OF CASE

Investigatire Period

6/7/60

4/26/60 - 5/23/60

Report nade by

;0

JAMES J. CONWAY

CHARACTER OF CASE

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA

COMMITTEE

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Typed By:

mxl

ynopsis:

REFERENCES

(JFK.

+29-9159/29/98 nde

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/XSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/, 6

Report of SA JAMES J. CONWAY at NY,

dated 4/25/60.

AGREZD

-P =

cia sets by 9803 RDD/KSR

ADMINISTRATIVE

Background information with respect to the

captioned organization has been furnished to the Newark

Division by airtel.

It will be noted that the Bureau has instructed

that all leads regarding this matter are to be handled

expeditiously and the matter is to be given continued and

vigorous attention.

pproved

Bpecial Agent

In Charge

oples "91: - Bureau (97-4196) (RM)

2 - Baltimore (RM)

97

2

- Boston (R)

2

- Newark (RM)

CLASSIFTED KEP

2

- New Haven (RM)

2.

New Orleans

F: FASON

(RM)

- Philadelphia (RM)

FCIM, I!,

- Pittsburgh (RM)

CATE CF

DECLASS!

2 - Washington Field

• (97-1354) (RM)

3= New York (97-1792

AND IRFOFANZZOM CONTAINED.

MEET TOT ME TIED

SECK

Property of FBI -

report 1s loaned to you by

DOC1At32173213 plea

# U.S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE: 1

0385319

Do not vrite

1n

spaces belon

4/21/92

0. T

JUN 1 3 1960

de Percue 1023

contents are to be dist

---

## Page 35

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

ADMINISIRATIVE (Cont'a)

Leads are being set forth for offices covering

cities where bank accounts of persons contributing to the

organization are located, to check indices on the names of

these contributors.

Previous subversive or criminal activity

on the part of these individuals would be of interest to this

Investigation.

No additional investigation on these individuals

is requested

at this time since the purpose of this investi-

gation is to determine it the organization, its sponsors or

officers have incurred the responsibility to register under

the Foreign Agents Registration Act, and It is not felt that

membership of these persons would have an effect in making

this determination.

No further investigation is set forth for SID LeNs,

ROBERY COLONY Or ELVA DE PUE MATTHEWS, since they are described

in the details or administrative pages of referenced report.

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

JOHN MICHAEL SHAY,

4525 Henry Hudson

Parkway, Riverdale,

NY

• T-2

[WF

1296-51](5)

Iocation

Information re

RICHARD GIBSON

BERTA PLA

Instant report,

page 12

Instant report,

page 47

WALDO FRANK

i can dot 15)

97-1792-82

WALDO FRANK

97-1792-98

14/28/60

aparavana, Cuba, (sp)

Ior Havana,

= B-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 35

---

## Page 36

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont'd)

Identity of Source

NY I-2 (Cont'd)

Location

97-1792-93

ROBERT TABER

arriving in

Havana, Cuba,

4/1/60

WALDO FRANK

sent letter to

"El Mundo"

and

"Revolucion"

SOKOLSKY article

and information

frOm MAJORIE RIOS

Information re

CONTE AGUERO and

MANUEL BEATON

*

"BOB" ordered tò

appear before the

Senate Insernal

Security Committee

Information re

OLGA FINLAY and

FARRELL DOBBS

Information re

LUIS CARBONELL

Message of

MARJORIE DE

RIOS. to ROBERTO

97-1792-55

97-1792-98

97-1792-60

97-1792-64

97-1792-88

197-1792-89

97-1792-91

-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 36

---

## Page 37

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont 'd)

Identity of Source

NY T-2 (Cont'a)

NY T-3

WE 3311-S*

Location

rats able to fe

97-1792-73

Leave US

Cuban Charge

d'Affairs

to

determine if

WALDO FRANK

would accept

Invitation

from Cuban

President

TABER would

depart NYC,

4/29/60

97-1792-65

97-1792-65

NY I-4

PI-S 106

NY I-5

Anonymous source

NY I-6

Confidential

P,0. Box,

St. Louls,

Missouri

NY T-7

NY 711-S-

NY I-8

NY 2481-S

NY 1-0

WF 1047-S

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

97-1792-53

WE 100-2941-Sub C

IA (27)

-D -

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 37

---

## Page 38

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

INFORMANTS (Cont 'a)

Identity of Source

Location

NY I-1O

EMMA ROBINSON

97-1792-67

(Former WE 760-S,

deceased)

NY I-21

BU 206-s

97-1792-67

NY T-12

BU 205-S

97-1792-67

NY I-13

559-5*3 (*(U)

(+34-200-20257 8514)

NY I-14

[NX 2494-5*T (5)

97-1792-

Careful consideration has been given to each

source concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those

instances where the identities of the sources must be con-

cealed.

LEADS

BALTIMORE

At Baltimore, Maryland

Will check office indices for identifying

information on ENRIQUE OL' EUGENE NOBLE.

BOSTON

At Boston, Massachusetts

Will check office indices for identifying

Information on W. E. HOCKING and THEODORE BROMELI.

E

-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 38

---

## Page 39

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

LEADS: (Cont'a)

NEWARK

At south Orange, New Jersey

As previously set forth in NY airtel, will attempt

to locate bank account for ALAN SAGNER, believed to be a

If the account is located, will

review the account from

resident of south Orange: 11/60 to the present for any deposits

of $2,000.00 or $5,000.00. .

Any deposits in this amount should

be closely checked

to, if possible, determine if the money

may have come from the Cuban Government or a representative

of the Cuban GovernmentS,

Also, any checks written on the account which

may be of interest in the investigation of this matter should

be reviewed.

Particular attention should be paid to any

checks written to ROBERT TABER, The Fair Play For Cuba

Committee, or the "New York Times"

The accounts ledger sheets and average balance

card should be reviewed and information contained thereon

furnished to the NY Office.

At Newark, New Jersey

Will review office indices for identifying

Information on ADDIE L. WEBER.

NEW HAVEN

At New Haven, Connecticut

Will check office indices for identifying

Information on KATHERINE B. FAULKNER

-

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 39

---

## Page 40

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot,

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

LEADS (Cont'd)

NEW ORLEANS

At New Orleans, Louisiana

Will review indices for identifying information

on J. T. DUNLAP.

PHILADELPHIA

At Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

Will check office indices for any identifying

information concerning ANNE MONTGOMERY, CHARLES C. SHAW,

and NANCY SHAW.

PITTSBURGH

At Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

Will check indices for identifying information

on CHARLES H. and KATHERINE GEORGE, DOROTHY H. COLONY, and

LESLIE A. FALGMEL.

WASHINGTON FIELD

At Washington, D.C.

W111

continue to monitor accounts of the Cuban

Embassy. * 5)

Will continue to follow the activities of The

Pair fiay for Giba Conmittee and Its members, through

established

sources.

= G

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 40

---

## Page 41

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

LEADS (Cont'd)

NEW YORK

SECRET

At New York, New York

Will continue to follow and report the activities

of the FPCC and its members.

Will continue to attempt to locate bank

of members of Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN.S

Will review accounts of individuals listed in

the attached report who may be paying money to the FPCC

or receiving money for the FPCC.

Irving

Will revlew accounts of VIVIA SHERLON at the

Trust Company, NYC,Xto determine if she Is identical

with [SILVIA SHELTON,

an employee of the Cuban Permanent

Mission

to the so til center her count to saation (s

pertinent to this

investigation.

Will attempt to locate the printing company

printing material for the FPCC and determine who is paying

for this material.

Will check indices for identifying information

on RUDY CORREA, JAMES K.

COGSWELL III, VIRGILIO BONACCI,

HOWARD C. WATSON, JOSEPH MDEPOO (?), ABE WEISBURD, and

GEORGE F. NELSON.

CLASSIFICATION

This report has been classified "Secret" due

to the sensitive nature of source WE 1196-5* (NY I-2 in S)

this report). In the event the report is to be downgraded,

it should be classified "Confidential"

since 1t indicates

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 41

---

## Page 42

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

CLASSIFICATION (Cont'd)

Bureau interest in foreign diplomatic establishments and

personnel of these establishments. Jand to protect the sources (

of continuing value, whose

disclosure might be detrinental to

the national defense.

Information on FD 302's.

The following individuals furnished information regarding

the bank accounts

of

the individuals indicated.

Account of

Offical

Fair Play For Cuba

Elbert R. Williams, Assü. Mgr.

Committee

Chase Manhättan Bank, NYC

Madison Ave. & 57th St. NYC

Robert Taber

J.N. Danella, Branck Mgr.

Chemical Bank New York Trust Co.

81st

8 Columbus Ave. NYC

Richard T. Gibson

Walter Lankenan, Head Bkkp.

Chase Manhattah Bank, Rocker-

feller Branch, NYC.

Elizabeth Barad

John Baratta, Assü. Mgr.

Irving Trust Co. Branch Bank

Woolworth Bldg.

NYC

cuban Embassy AccouatE

John C. No Cormack, Vice Pres

Riggs National Bank, Wash-

ington, D.C.

[Manuel BiabeJ(5)

Chase Man-

Robert Footel bexington Ave.

hattan Bank,

43rd St. NYC.

-I.

COVER PAGE

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 42

---

## Page 43

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

Baul Roas)

[carlos Inchuza (5)

Thomas Good, Manufacturers "

Trust Co. 57th St. & 5th Ave.

NYC

John J. O'Neill, Asst. Vice

Pres. Manufacturers Trust Co.

43rd

& 5üh

Ave. NYC

The identities of theserandividuals is indicated on the

origionals öf the FD 302s which are maintained by the No.

It is not necessary to subpoena

the individuals

indicated

but any officer of the bank.

-J*-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 43

---

## Page 44

Released us-204 YeT. KegpedAssassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Mote) .

DATE:

UNI-ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Federal Bureau of Investigation

CE-C-R-EV

i wi

Copy. to:

Report of:

Date:

JAMES J. CONWAY

6/7/50

File Number: New York 97-1792

Bureau 97-4196

Title:

THE FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

Office: New York, New York

Character:

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA;

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

JFK +29-486-9129198 nce

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/ASK

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X/, 6

Synopsis:

Bank account for the FPCC and bank accounts

of officers of this committee reviewed but

nothing of significance was noted.

The

Committee has office in Room 411, 50 East

-Oth Street, NYC, where mail is received.

Attempts to locate bank account for cuban

Permanent Mission

to the UN negative.

Accounts of the Cuban Mission

members and employees reflected nothing

of significance.

Source advised that

WALDO FRANK signed a contract with the

Cuban Government.

FRANK, BRUCE TASER,

and CARLETON BEALS scheduled to depart

for Havana, Cuba, on 4/28 and 29/60.

BEALS advised that he was

"forcibly

prevented" from visiting Havana due

to a subpoena.] (5)

-P-

ALL INFORMIATION CONTAINEI

DetaIlS: HEREIN IS NOT ASSERTEI

9803/200/152

EXCREST 7241070

OTHERE.

(JFK)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

S-E-C-R-E-T

SECRET

CLASSIFIED AND

CLASSIFIC SER 42180

AEASOAVFOR EXTENSION

FOI, 1/-24.2-1.-

DECLASSIFICATION 44121/90

DocId: 32175247 Page 44

---

## Page 45

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Office of FPCC

On May 2, 1960, inquiry at the Lincoln Building,

60 East 42nd Street,

New York City, reflected that the FPCC

is located in Room 411 of this building.

It was learned

that this room is occupied by the Morris Service Company

which subleases desk space and acts as a mail receiving

office and telephone operating service for various companies

and individuals.

The principal listed for the FPCC at this

office is R. B. TABER.

It was learned that Miss ELIZABETH

SAMMONS is the Renting Agent for the Morris Service Company

as this address.

Attemots to Locate

Bank Accounts Eor

Cuban Permanent

Mission to United

Nations (UN) ](5)

9 Lon April 26, 1950, the following New York City

banks

were checked in

an attempt to locate

bank accounts

for the Cuban Permanent Mission to the UN.

These checks

were made under the names, Cuban Permanent Mission to the

UN, Cuban Delegation to the _UN, Delegation of Cuba to the

UN, and Cuban UN Delegation.

under any of these names at the following banks

No baris socounts wage located

Manufacturers Trust Company

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company

Irving Trust Company

Chase Manhattan Bank

First National City Bank of New York

- 14-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 45

---

## Page 46

/ Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

on May 12, 1960, all banks in the vicinity of

he office of the cuban Permanent Mission to the UN wereS

anvassed in an attempt to locate an account for thi

Mission but no account could be found. It will be noted S

that on May 12, 1900, Mr. RAYMOND DELAND, of the Bankers

advised that his bank solicited the account

that, the Mission has no bank ascount in the United states (s)

The Consul General of Cuba account at the First

National City Bank of New York is an account used primarily

for the

payment of Consulate expenses and salaries of emplo

of this ConsulateS

The Consulate Generale de Cuba and the Consulate

Generale de Cuba Invoices are accounts used as clearing

accounts for the handling of funds in connection with imports

and exports between Cuba and the United States.

The former

account is closed at the end of each month by issuing a

check to the Manufacturers Trust Company for the balance

in the account at the

month's end(S)

A review of these accounts failed to reflect

$5,000.00 or $2,000.00 deposit or withdrawal.

(и)

- 15-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 46

---

## Page 47

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-(59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET Date May 26, 1950

On Nay 2, 1960, a confidential source of information

advised that a review of

the following bank accounts maintained

by the cuban Embassy in washington, D.C., were reviewed for the

monch of April, 1900

The review failed to disclose that any

funds were furnished

to the committee or any known sponsors of

this Committeey

Embassy of Cuba

Consulate of Cuba

Cuban Military Attache's Office

(5)

Cuban Naval Attache's Office

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena is to be issued to

any official of the Riggs National Bank, Washington, D.C.

SECRET

JOHN C. MC CORMACK, Vice Pres.,

Interview with

Riggs National Bank

on

5/2/60

at Washington, D.C.

File # 97-1792

Date Dictated

5/2/60

by Special Agent -

ANDREW J. SHANNON: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and

its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

DocId: 32175247 Page 47

---

## Page 48

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Attempts to Locate

Bank Accounts for

Members of Cuban

Permenent Mission

to the UNr

The UN publication entitled,

"Members of Permanent

Missions to the United Nations Entitled to Diplomatic Privileges

and Immuties"

Dr. MANUEL BISHE

305 East 72nd Street

New York City

RAUL PRIMELLES

155 East 44th Street

New York City

D3.. CARIOS BLANCO

28 East 70th Street

New York City

TERESA CASUSO-MARIN

306 East 72nd Street

New York City

RAUL J. ROA

115 Pryer Terrace

New Rochelle, New York

CARLOS M. LECHUGA

240 East 76th Street

New York City

SILVIA SHELTON

201 West 89th Street

New York City

- 17 -

DocId: 32175247

Page 48

---

## Page 49

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

JOSEFINA GARCIA SIERRA

201 West 89th Street

New York City

ISABEL FIGUEREDO

The Beacon Hotel

75th Street and Broadway

New York City

MARIO FERNANDEZ-SANDE

Hotel Stanford

43 West 32nd Street

New York City

(5)

- 18-

ACCRET

L

DocId: 32175247

Page 49

---

## Page 50

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET

Date

May 26, 1960

A confidential source advised on May 13, 1960,

that his branch of the Chase Manhattan

Bank, New York City,

in set e et county CRANE, BASE, 155 Bast

The account was opened on february 11, 1959.

The balances on March 31, 1960 and April 27, 1960, were

$226.26 and $225.99, respectively.

The deposits

cotaled

$2,641.12, and withdrawals totaled $2,415.13.

On April 6, 1960, a check in the amount of

$3,484.25 was presented at the bank for distribution as u

follows:

$2,025.00 was deposited in the above checking

account, $600.00 was deposited in a savings account; and

the balance was in cash.

The source was unable to advis

the bank on which this

check was drawn.

(S 1)

An examination of the ledger reflects a charge

in the amount of $616.12 on April 13, 1960, which was

the

largest charge for the period.

period were small three digit

amounts.

another, charges during the (u)

The balances for the account

on April 29, 1960

and May 11, 1960, were $225.99 and $10.00, respectively.

There were no deposits and withdrawals totaled $215.99.

An examination of the cancelled checks

reflected

nothing pertinent.

February, 1959 and March, 1960 was a low four digit figure.

SECRET

File #_97-1792

5/15/00

at

422 Lexington Ave., NYC Date Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents

GABRIEL J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

-19-

DocId: 32175247 Page 50

---

## Page 51

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SEORET

In addition to the above checking account,

BISBE maintains a savings account, number 20-2200, in the

name of GRAZIELLA BISBE and/or MANUEL BISBE, (In TrUSt FOI

The account was opened on April 6, 1959,

with a $2,500.00 deposit and the balance on April 6, 1960

Average deposits auring the period from

December, 1959 through April, 1960, were a low three digi

figure

The signature card for the savings account

MANUEL waS born on December 20, 1902,

and GRAZIELLA WAS

born of January 8, 1911, both in Cuballs

BISBE's credit file reflects that he maintains

an account with the First National City Bank of New York,

Havana Branch Number 835.

Reference was listed as CARLOS

BLANCO, Cuban Delegate to the United Nations (UN) (S)

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum. The subpoena should be directed

tO GERALD VAN DORN,

Protection Officer, Chase Manhattan

Bank, 30 Pine Street, New York City.

- 20 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-5)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET

Date

May 26, 1960

A confidential source advised on May 11, 1960,

street, Apartment Zioß, ter fork tity, Aocount umber 5-27672(3))

The balances in the account on May I and 10, 1960,

were $4,409.47 and $3,148.76, respectively:

Deposits

totaled

$1,406.14 and withdrawals totaled $2,666.85.

which was a certified check payable to the Ford Motor Company.

fees, Diner's Club, and other personal business expenses

reflects a depositor two checks in the

A deposit telet dated hey 'amount of 1. 027-84 and

$378.30.

The larger check was drawn against the First National

City Bank of New York, but it was

not possible to determine the

source of the smaller

check.

u)

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena should be directed

to any official of the Manufacturers Trust Company, New York

City.

SECRET

File #

97-1792

Manufacturers Trust Co.

Date

on 5/11/60

_ at Branch, 57 St. & 5th Ave., NYC Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents GABRIEL J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

agency;

agency.

and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

21°

DocId: 32175247 Page 52

---

## Page 53

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-302 (Rev. 3-3-5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Interview Report

SECRET

Date -

May 26, 1960

A confidential source at Manufacturers Trust

company, New York City, advised on May 11, 1960, that CARLOS

LECHUGA maintains a joint checking account with his wife,

GLADYS LAUDERMAN, 155 East 44th Street, Room 201, New York

City 0)

The account was opened on March 10, 1959, with

a deposit of $1,131.57.

There was no activity in the account,

and the balance on March 2, 1960, was $760.18. The average

alance In the account from March, 1959 to February, 1901

effects a medzum three digit amount. ( li

The signature card reflects LECHUGA is a Cuban

Delegate to the United Nations (UN), telephone number TU TU (S

The above information should not be made public

except in the usual proceedings following the issuance of

a subpoena duces tecum.

The subpoena should be directed

to any official of the

Manufacturers Trust Company, New York

City.

File # _97-1792

on 5/11/60

2 at 43rd St. & 5th Ave., NYC

Date Dictated 5/16/60

by Special Agents_ GABRIEL J. PEASE and JAMES J. CONWAY: mx1

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of

the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency;

it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

12-

DocId: 32175247 Page 53

---

## Page 54

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

SECRET

"Cuba, without love; and no one can see and feel what is

women - your army of 'Rebeldes' against the rotten world

which my generation bequeathed

to yours, for you to recreate.

"May you lead this new world for many years to

come.

As a loyal American who has always taken seriously the

term

"New World' and the dream that a True new world must

An the ad,

come in our Hemisphere, I am grateful to you; and I enroll

myself as a humble member of your company.. For we have the

same enemies and the same Goal.

"Here in Cuba, I have seen love at work. For the

joy of this revolution, I shall always be graterul to you,

Fidel Castro.

"Perhaps you know that our word 'Good-bye' means

'God-be-with-you'

So I say Good-bye to Cuba and to you.

Henceforth my heart will be here; and my best thoughts.

"Devotedly Yours

"Waldo Frank"

On May 6, 1960, NY I-2 learned that WALDO FRANK

had signed a contract with the Cuban Government for an

unstated purpose. The contract was furnished to him by the

cuban Delegation to the Untted Nations](s)

The source also learned

I that recently, while in

Havana, Cuba, FRANK left copies of the contract with

ARMANDO HART, Cuban Minister of Education.

contract with the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Relations

i Cuban

FRANK preferred

and requested the

(Cuban Government to advise him if this

was possible.

- 30 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 54

---

## Page 55

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Nothe

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

On May 12, 1960, NY I-2 advised that as a special

service to Prensa Latina,

a Cuban news agency, WALdO FRAnK

had written an article entitled "The State of Mind in Cuba".

The source advised that the article was published in newspapers

throughout the world,

Cuban Government and

and was vent favorable toward the

the people of Cuba.

On April 26, 1960, NY T-? learned that WALDO FRANK

was departing New York City for Havana, Cuba, on April 28,

1960.

According to the informant, FRANK would be in Havana

unt11 May. 1, 1960. FRANK was desirous of an interview with

ARMANDO HART, Cuban Minister of Education on April 29, 1960.

It was also requested that RUDOLFO WALSH of Prensa Latina

meet FRANK at the airport in Havana, on

According to the source, the Cuban Foreign Ministry was

requested to have Cubana Airlines authorize the New York

of that company to issue a round-trip ticket to FRANK.

On April 27, 1960, NY T-3 advised that ENRIQUE

PATTERSON, Charge d' Affaires, Cuban Embassy, Washington,

D.C.,

had received instructions from Havana to Immediately

determine whether WALDO FRANK would accept an invitation

extended to him by Cuban President OSVALDO DORTICOS

was

According to NY I-3, FATTERSON stated that FRANK

leaving for Havana, Cuba on April 28, *1960, also that

CARLETON BEALS and ROBERT TABER were departing for Havana

on Apr1l 29,.

1960

All three would return from Cuba on

May: 1, 1960.] NS)

On April 28, 1960, Miss ELIZABETH HIRSCH of Cubana

Airlines, New York City, advised that her records refléct

that WALDO FRANK was scheduled to depart from Idlewila

Airport, New York,

to Havana, Cuba, aboard Cubana Airlines

Flight 999 on April 29, 1960.

She

advised that CARLETON BEALS

and ROBERT TABER have reservations on April 20, 1960. Miss

HIRSCH advised that she has

, no information with respect to who

made the reservations or who paid for the tickets for these

Individuals.

=31-

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 55

---

## Page 56

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

ACTIVITIES OF ROBERT TABER

On April 1, 1960; NY I-2 learned that ROBERT TABER

would arrive on Havana, Cuba on that date aboard Cubana Airlines

Flight 999.

ecording to che informant, TABER's return passage

to New York buy had not been arranged and the Cuban Foreign

Ministry was supposed to make arrangements for this

passage

On April 21, 1960, NY I-2 received Information that

ROBERTO had requested the following from MAJORIE RIOS, Depart-

ment of Information, Cuban Foreign Ministry:

ROBERTO desired to know why the Cuban Government

had expelled RICHARD B. BATE, newsman for the Columbia Broad-

casting System (CBS), from Cuba. Accoraing to ROBERTO, BATE hao

stated that morning

that he was expelled due to the fact that

he had an appointment with RAMON CASTRO, brother of FIDEL,

CASTRO, the Prime Minister of Cuba, also that RAMON CASTRO

had disappeared and supposedly left Cuba. According to

ROBERTO, BATE had also stated he had spoken with various

counter-revolutionaries in Cuba and from his impressions

of them BATE believed that another civil war would soon

start in cuba.

BAlE stated that many revolutionary solalers

not sure

whether they should still support fIder castHos

According to the source, on April 21, 1960, ROBERTO

was advised by RIOS

that she would forward information to him

concerning BATE and told him not to worry about

tue revel

soldiers because they are loyal to CASTRO.

On April 22, 1960, the informant advised that ROBERTO

had been told by RIOS

that she had no official information

regarding statements made by BATE.

She did say, however,

the comments by BATE concerning RAMON CASTRO were

"completely

wild."

In this regard she referred to a press release

containing statements alleged to have been made by RAMON CASTRO.

In this release RAMON CASTRO stated that BATE had furnished

false information Inasmuch as he, CASTRO, was not outside of

It was stated that CASTRO was attending the National

Assembly of Cane Growers as a delegate from Oriente Province

cuba.

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 56

---

## Page 57

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Further intormation concerning RAMON CASTRO was

furnished to ROBERTo on April 25, 1960, by RIOS. It was stated

at that time that RAMON CASIRO was in Havana staying at the

Hotel Bristol. It was stated that highly placed persons in

the Cuban Foreign Ministry had conversed personally with

RAMON CASTRO

on April 22, 1960.

This information was

Furnished eaten el the fact that he was stil in cubals)

On April 25, 1960, ROBERTO had requested that RIOS

arrange to send clippings of any information which could e

published. He stated that twice during the last week he had

missed the opportunity of "scooping" other papers with regard

to RAMON CASTRO's story and the declarations of Cuban Foreign

Minister RAUL ROA. According to ROBERTO, this was due to the

fact that the information was passed to him too slowly.

(5)

on April 26, 1960, ROBERTO was advised that the Cuban

Government could expect strong opposition in the near future

que to the expropriation of land belonging to the United Fruit

The following 1s

sumnary of material furnished

to ROBERTO and ne was askedito advise whether the "releases" 5)

were of suitable length and content:

The United Fruit Company will be paid $6,118,047.00/

for 272, 000 acres of expropriated land In Oriente Providence NU

cuba.

The veteran Argentine Socialist Leader, ALFREDO

PALACIOS,

will arrive in Havana in the near future as a

guest of the Cuban Government to obtain firsthand

information on the Cuban Revolution. It was also stated,

that the Panama newspaper "Critica"

condemns the Unitza

States' attitude toward Cuba.

(5)

Cuban President OSVALDO DORTICOS declared that

Generalissimo RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO of the Dominican Republic,

who is never attacked by the United States, did not dare to

place arms into the hands of his people since he realizes

that they would be used against him.

I (u)

301F

DocId: 32175247 Page 57

---

## Page 58

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

The twenty-two Venezuelan farmers who captured

the Venezuelan traitor JESUS MARIA CASTRO LEON will be

¿nueed to dota tie ila 1, 1960, deletration in lavan Le

JOSE M. MOURE, ex-President of the Association of

Latin American Travel Agents, after attending the third

Revolution and FIDEL CASTRO.

inter be the ornate lavana, praled the Caban

(E)

Construction is underway for a national park in

the vicinity of the Sierra Maestra peak Gran Pledra, which

will include forests, gardens, a hotel, cabanas, hunting

and saning facilities in an area coveria nearly 17,000 area all

It will be noted that on May 17, 1950, JON SPELLER,

33 West 42nd Street, New York City, advisea that he had been

Cuba during the week of May 9, 1960.

SPELLER stated that in

Cuba he met. JUNE COBB, an American who works for the CASTRO

Government In the office of Cuban Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

SPELLER stated that according to COBB,

MAJORIE RIOS

1s an assistant to TONY DE LA OSA, Chief of Public Relations

in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Cuban Government.

COBB stated that DE LA OSA and RIOS "handled the FPCC for the

Cuban Government.

On April 21, 1960, NY I-2 advised that an individual

known only to him as ROBERTO Requested the Cuban Foreign

Ministry to furnish him biographic and personal information

persons for the "facte

SECR

ET

DocId: 32175247 Page 58

---

## Page 59

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:, 11-14-2017

5a

NY 97-1792

ULURET

on April 22, 1960, NY I-2 advised that the following

data was furnished l

to ROBERTO concerning CONTE AGUERO:

9)

The wined of the Public Relations Department of

he Cuoan preign Ministry, ATONIO DE LA OSA, described S

'ONTE AGUERO as a traitor to his country. It was sai

that this person was in the service of the worst

international interests which are fighting against cuba,

and he was also on the side of the forner cuban dictator,

FULGENDIO BATISTA and RAFAEL L. TRUJILLO Of the Dominican

Republic.

TRUJILLO was described by OSA as the "nausga

0f

America"

It was stated that CONTE AGUERO departed Cuba

after promoting a misleading campaign in which he reiterated

the worn out argument of the enemies of Cuba by saying

that a grave cormunist infiltration was gaining controi

of the Cuban Government.

The arguments of CONtE AGUERO

were described as being copied word for word from the

assertions of the White Rose, an organization opposed to Cuban

Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

The arguments of CONIE AQUERO

were also stated to have 'been copied from other "grou

interests'

that have conspired against cuba.

CASTRO In a recent television interviewes alleged

to have exposed the treacherous intentions of CONTE AGUERO'S

campaign and its antecedents. It was stated that CONIS

AGUERO completed his actions

in this regard by seeking

asylum in a foreign embassy in Havana.

His purpose in doing

for political reasons.

It was stated that CONTE ACUERO was never a

revolutionary.

He had tried by all means within his reach

to make the Cuban revolutionary movement fail during the

period of the war against BATISTA. He did this by spreading

discouragement and fatalism among the rebels. It was

further stated that he participated in a maneuver which was

designed to force the Orthodox Party of Cuba

take part

in the "mock elections" held by BATISTA.

IN (4)

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 59

---

## Page 60

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej:

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

It was related that CONTE AGUERO did not take

much time toopenly confess his complicity with "war criminals"

and other enemies of Cuba.

In the

"Diario de Nueva York's"

edition of April 12, 1960, his picture appeared with an

article which he wrote. for RAUL ACOSTA RUBIO. ACOSTA RUBIO waS

then described as having eluded Cuban justice and as an

influential man during the BATISTA dictatorship.

the same time, CONTE AGUERO admitted his allegiance to the

international

conspiracy against Cuba by repeating to

the United Press International news agency the infamous

assertion that the Cuban revolution is a communis

revolution. At that time he further stated that he would

write two books concerning Cuba, and it was stated that

both would be published and distributed utilizing the

money that BATISTA, TRUJILLO and other foreign

Interests

contribute to the conspiracy against cuba.

(u)

On the same date, the informant advised that

the following Infornation was furnished to ROBERTO concerning

MANUEL BEATON:

BEATON was described as a Cuban from the Sierra

Maestra who joined the rebel forces near the end of the

war against BATISTA and attained the rank of Captain.

He was described as a violent and undisciplined Individual

who lacked sound revolutionary sense.

FRATON wat laed under arpect anst at the

disposition of military tribunals. He subsequently escaped

from La Cabana Fortress with the help of an officer

from the fortress guard who is now also under arrest.

It is known in Cuba that he has reached the zone of Agua al

Reves in the Sierra Maestra where he was born and with

which he is very familiar.

Since escaping, BEATON has

united with a group of fugitives from justice, counter-

revolutionaries and former enemies of the BATISTA army

which was dissolved.

These groups have organized an

insignificant band dedicated to robbery and the

mistreatment of the "country people."

In Uvero, BEATON

assassinated the elderly PANCHO TAMAYO who had been

an efficient collaborator of

the

CASTRO forces during

the war against BATISTA.

(S)

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 60

---

## Page 61

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote}.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 97-1792

CECRET

on April 20, 1950,

NY T-2 learned that the Cuban

(5)

Foreign Ministry was advised that "Bob" and another unidentified

member of the FPCC had been ordered to appear for testimony

before the United States Senate Internal Security Sub Committee.

According to the

source, they were oidered to appear on April

28, 1960.

On May 9, 1960, NY T-2 advised that RAUL ROA of

the Cuban Permanent Mission to the United Nations was advised

by MARCELO FERNANDEZ FONI, Under Secretary, Cuban Foreign

Ministry, that in accordance with agreements with "Bob!! passage

was authorized for OLGA FINIA on May 10, 1960.

FINLA was to

The source advised on May 9, 1950, that MARJORIE

DE RIOS sent the following message

to ROBERT through the

Cuban United Nations Mission:

"In a press release dated April 15, 1960, at New

York, Prensa Latina quoted Farrell Dobbs,

candidate for the

United States presidency under the Socialist Workers Party as

stating 'friends and partisans of the ex-Dictator Batista are

maintained on the payrolls of the Department of State

alà in counter-revolutioner notivulan asatrat cuba. (s)

RIOS desired to know whether this information could

be verified. It was stated that the

above was released upon

DOBBS return from a visit to cuba.

In the interview wherein the above statement was made

DOBBS also said "Cuba is a small country anxious to maintain

Itself outside of the fire in which the powers are involved.'

He was also alleged to have said "in my opinion the preoccupation

of the Cuban people under the intentions or policies of the

Department of State are well founded. Herter seems to be

following the pattern traced by Dulles for Latin America."

(s)

-= 41 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 61

---

## Page 62

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

Accoring to the source, RIOS further informed

ROBERT that she

would advise him about the book as soon

possible.

Also she desired to know from ROBERI whether (s

they could appeal to the Quakers American Friends Service

Committee. She stated that this committee had people in

That tha

Cuba during the revolution and

she had seen one very

favorable letter from them.

On May 10, 1960, NY I-2 advised that an individual

Inown only to him as CELIA, whom he believed to be with the

Cuban United Nations Mission, had requested that an individual

known only as RENE of the Cuban Foreign Ministry, Havana,

contact "Commentator LUIS CARBONELI,," on the behalf of

ROBERT. RENE was to request CARBONELI, to contact "Bob" collect

on the morning of May 11, 1960, concerning CARBONELL's trip

to New York City.

The telephone number of ROBERT was furnished

as PLaza 5-2119. (S) (»

It will be noted that the above telephope, number 1s

listed to the Consulate of Cuba, New York City.

On May 11, 1960, NY I-2 advised that MARJORIE DE

RIOS of the Cuban Foreign

Ministry sent a message for ROBERTO

in which she suggested that their personal messages be numbered

in the future

MARJORIE suggested

a book entitled "Progesos en Materia de Reforma

Agraria" helpful. She explained that the book was published

about six years

ago by the United Nations and concerns Agrarian

Reform.

It was suggested that he take note of recommendations

of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations,

13th Session (1951), which approved a resolution "recommending

the implementation of Agrarian Reforms in favor of agricultural

workers without

land"

It was suggested that ROBERTO should

pay particular attention to

page 73 of the above-mentioned

book and concluded that "United States Agrarian Reform in

Japan paltonly in bonds, longer term, lower Interest than

Сиба".

With respect to ROBERT, "Bob" and ROBERTO as set

forth above, it will be noted that ROBERT TABER is a sponsor

and secretary of the FPCC. (X)(a)

-ARET

DocId: 32175247 Page 62

---

## Page 63

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: ,11-14-2017

-NY 97-1792

SEGRET

As previously set forth in this report on April

27, 1960, NY I-3 advised that ENRIQUE PATTERSON, Charge d'

Arfaires,

Cuban Embassy, Washington, D.C., stated that ROBERI

TABER would depart New York City for Havana, CuDa, 0i

29, 1900, and return to New York City on May 1, 1960.l

ACTIVITIES OF CARLETON -BEAIS

on April 29, 1960, NY T-2 Learned that CARLETON BEAL

had been unable

to leave the Unibed states for Cuba on April

29, 1960, as he had previously planned.

The source advised

that BEALS informed

the Cuban Government that he had been

"forcibly prevented" from going to Cuba to meet with Latin

American writers et the invitation of Cuban President OSVALDO

DORTICOS, since he had received a "24 hour subpoena" from the

(5)

..United States Senator JAMES EASILAND.

According to the source,

BEALS stated that he had been commanded to appear perore the

Senate Judiciary Committee on April 30, 1960.

CHARACTERIZATION OF ROBERT F. WILLIAMS

The following is a characterization of one ROBERy

F. WILLIAMS Of Monroe,

North Carolina, who may

be identical

with one of the sponsors of the FPCC:

On April 10, 1950, NY I-4

advised that ROBERT F.

WILLIAMS attended a Communist Party (CP) meetingwhich was

hold in the heacquarter offlee of the diosed Distrot

22, Charleston, West Virginia, in April,

According

to the source, WILLIAMS was a student at West Virginia State

College Institute, West Virginia, at the time and was teaching

Communism to other students at the shool.

U)

On June 15, 1955, WILLIAMS voluntarily appéared at

the Charlotte Office of the FBI,

at which time he denied ever

being a member of the CP, but stated he had met individuals

who were members and who he declined to name.

He said at

one

time that he was invited by the

"Michigan Edition of the

Daily Worker" to become a member of the "Daily Worker"

staff

In New York. He also stated that while he was in the State

of West Virginia, he made a speech befo 2 the Open Forum, which

- 43-

-CRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 63

---

## Page 64

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 97-1792

pertained to the Negro situation and following

this speech

an organizer of the CP of west Virginia offered him a free

subscription to the "Daily Worker"

He stated that in 1953,

he was selected to attend

• the Jefferson School of social

Sciences In New York City.

He advised that he attended one

session of classes at the school and it was his observation

that the information being taught at the school was not "good"

and he discontinued his attendance. He did not elaborate

on his statement that the information being taught was not

"good"

On February 29, 1956, NY T-5 advised that on that

date WILLIAMS had contacted the Soviet Embassy in Washington,

Bine sound enten

that he

be allowed to enter and live in

(AU)

On February 2, 1959, NY

• T-6 made avallable a plece

of the Committee to Combat Racial Injustice letterhead

stationary which reflected that WILLIAMS was President of

the Union County,

North Carolina, National Association for

the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and was Chairman

of the committee to Combat Racial Injustige (CCRI)•

CCRI was set up in order

on December 79, 1958, MY T-7 advised

that the

to concern itself mainly with the issue

involving the conviction and incarceration of two Negro youths,

DANIEL EZZELL SIMPSON, age eight, and HANOVER CRISSOM THOMPSON,

age ten, at Monroe, North Carolina. According to the source,

the boys were allegedly convicted on a charge of kissing a

white girl.

According to this source, the CCRI also concerned

itself with several other racial incidents which occurred

in the southern part of the United States and intends to become

a permanent organization, which will concern itself with racial

incidents.

The source had stated that the CCRI was initiated

through the efforts of the Socialist workers Party which party

was the

motivating force In the formation of the organization.

44 -

SECRET

DocId: 32175247 Page 64

---

## Page 65

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: - 11-14-2017

a),

NY 97-1792

SECRET

[OUBAN CONSULATE INTERESI IN EPOC](S)

On April 6, 1950, NY I-14 advised that Dr.

SOUZA, Consul General of Cuba,

New York City contacted the

a the 85)

"New York Times" and made inquiry about the possibility oi

obtaining from 1,000 to 3,000 reprints of the

"ad" placed

by the FPCC In the "Times" on that dater

On May. 17, 1960, NY I-1 advised*that BERTA FIA, (SU

cucural Attache, Cuban Consulate, New York City has a large

amount of printed material in herafice at the Cuben Consulate.

NY I-l advised that he does not know the purpose of this

printed matter,

but believes that PLAjis distributing it to

interested parties. NY I-1

stated that the printed matter

consists of reprints of the "ad" appearing in the "New Yorl

Times" of April 6, 1960, sporscred by the FPCC as well as

applications for membership in the FPCC.

On May 17, 1960, Mrs. JILI GALLER, Registration

Section, Internal Security Division, United States Department

that she could

of listice, adviced SA MBaRT g. MORLaN, owlitee was registerer

find no record indicating that captioned

as an agent of a foreign principal.

On May 17, 1960, MrS. ULDA ELDRED Of the above

Registration Section, advised SA MORGAN that she had no informa-

tion indicating that

correspondence had been received from the

above committee or persons connected with the committee.

SECRET

=47-

DocId: 32175247 Page 65

---

