# docid-32333452

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90107-10035

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-117222-270

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI.

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/17/1967

4

Released under the John

• Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection

Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

COMANDOS L

JOHN THOMAS DUNKIN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

v9.1

HY 54464 DocId: 32333452 Page 1

52

---

## Page 2

PAGE TWO MIAMI 105-7054

CONTAINED A LARGE S

JPPLY OF: FOOD, PISTOLS, PARLO FOR FIFTY-

SEVEN MILLIMETER RECOILLESS RIFLES, BLASTING CAPS, RADIOS, ÄND

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT THAT. COULD BE USED FORWASUENTIAL

AGAINST CUBA, HOWEVER, THIS MATERIAL WAS NOT SEIZED. FONI WAS

NOT, CHARGED WITH ANY

VIOLATION OF THE FEDERAL LAW.

IT IS NOTED THAT RAMON FONI SAUMELL, A CUBAN EXILE, IS THE

MILITARY LEADER OF COMANDOS L, AN ANTI CASTRO ORGANIZATION THAT

HAS CONDUCTED MILITARY RAIDS AND OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA IN THE

PAST. &4

ADMINISTRATIVE:

REFERENCE

BE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU FEBRUARY SIXTEENTH.

TELETYPE BEING CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL 'BECAUSE IT REFERS

TO INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED BY MM SIX THREE FIVE - S,

A SOURCE OF CONTINUING VALUE. CU)

MIAMI WILL CONTINUE TO FOLLOW THIS MATTER CLOSELY, AND

KEEP BUREAU ADVISED•

SHOP. SUBMIT COPY

END

XNYEZMHYSLILBCAC_HWZQYJZJAIRUVSYSFYKQG

ZEISDEO CBUCM

EWHIG-IFTAA

IJOIZXFQPOWVJLE

KLIDMGEVE7SA92D

Cc.M. Sillian

FBC FBI WA DC

CRET

CONS

HAL

HH 51461 DooId:32333452 Padé 2

---

## Page 3

"PAGE IWO MIAMI 105-7054

CONTAINED A LÁRGE

SUppLY OF FOOD, PISTOLS, PARTS

FOR FIFTY-

SEVEN MILLIMETER RECOILLESS RIFLES, BLASTING CAPS, BARIOS. AND

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT THAI COULD BE USED FOR WISE NITE:

AGAINSI CUBA, HOWEVER, THIS MATERIAL WAS NOI SEIZED. FONT WAS

NOT CHARGED WITH ANY VIOLATION OF THE FEDERAL LAW.

IT IS NOTED THAT RAMON FONT SAUMELL, A CUBAN EXILE, IS THE

MILITARY LEADER OF COMANDOS L, AN ANII CASTRO ORGANIZATION THAT

HAS CONDUCIED MILITARY RAIDS AND OPERATIONS AGAINST CUBA IN THE

PAST. (V)

ADMINISTRATIVE:

RE MIAMI TELETYPE TO BUREAU FEBRUARY SIXTEENTH.

•TELETYPE BEING CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL BECAUSE II REFERS

TO INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED BY MY SIX THREE FIVE - SCU

A SOURCE OF CONTINUING VALUE •

MIAMI WILL CONTINUE TO FOLLOW THIS MATIER CLOSELY, AND

KEEP

BUREAU

ADVISED •

SUCOP

END

WA•

XNYFZMHYSEFEBCAC MUZOTZUSATRUVSYSFYKOG.

ZETSDEO CBUCM

ÔRIC: MR. DELOACH FOR DIRECTOR

KLIDUGEVE 78414-920

1: 033

112 kr

FBC FBI WA DC

EBHRASXIG, 8S

GENFICENTIAL

HH 51461 DooId: 32333452 Padé 3

---

