# docid-32373242

## Page 1

Date: 02/12/98

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10300-10222

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

• Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NIT 53217 Date:

06-22-2017

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BERN

TO : DIRECTOR, CIA

SECTOR NORMATTON CONCERN NS IS HANDEY OSWEED.

TITLE : CABLE - INFORMATION CONCERNING LEE HARVEY OSWALD.

DATE: 11/26/63

PAGES :

2

SUBJECTS : FAIR PLAY-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS :

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/28/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

OSW-SF :F2 1998.01.28.13:04:29:530082: DUP OF

104-10015-10149; ARRB RELEASE

[R]

---=-

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH

53217

DocId: 32373247

Page 1

---

## Page 2

70:

CLASSIFISD MESSAGE

SECRET

TO

$ DIRECTOR

FROM

BERN

ACTION. C/EE 3 (EE AND CI CD'S NOTIFIED ANO CO

INFO

DE!, D/D61, DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/SR 5,

D/OS

i 2,

2

3

ROUTING

5

161

TUBED AT 1625-26 NOV 63)

S E

'RE 9 262005z

26 Koy 63 IN 6 8355

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO INMEDIATE CNVA

CITE BERN 2494

RYBAT KLOESK INK

RES A BERN 2492(1N 68312)%

B BERN 2493(8N 68344)

DO FOLLOWING IS COMPLETE TEXT OF SECOND MEMO RE LEE HARVEY OSWALD

RECEIVED BY ODENVY REP BERN FROM INANITION AT SAME TIME AS MEMO

FORWARDED REF A, INANITION AND ODENVY REP PERN INTERNAL

REFERENCE NUMPERS OMITTED.

OSWALD LEE HARVEY, BORN 18 OCTOSER 1939 AT NEW ORLEANS/USA.

IN VIEW OF THE RECENT AND TRACIC DEVELOPVENTS WE HAVE AGAIN

NB forles tham To oswald fies)

CONTACTED THE "ALBERT SCHWEITZER COLLEGE" AT CHURWALDEN FOR

POSSIBLE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.

IT HAS BEEN FOUND THAT ALL CORRESPONDANCE WHICH HAD BEEN

EXCHANGED WITH THE COLLEGE BY SUBJECT AND HIS MOTHER WAS

FORWARDED, IN MARCH 1961, TO JIM WRIGHT, MEMBER OF CONCRESS,

WASHINGT ON DO CO, ON REQUEST OF SUBJECT'S MOT HER.

WE FELT THAT THE ABOVE INFORMATION MIGHT ASSIST YOU IN THE PRESENT

INVESTIGATION.

2 KUBARK ONLY: EXAM OF ODENVY AN INANITION MEMO REFERENCE DATA

INDICATES ODENVY REP. BERN QUERIED INANITION RE LEE HARVEY OSWALD

SECRE

5

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP T

Excluded fro

marlomotie

downgrading and

declossification

Copy No.

NW 53217 DooId: 32373242

Page 2

---

## Page 3

GLASVNICO MESSAGE

IN 683-55 PAGE C2

FIRST ON 16 JUNE 69, THEN AGAIN 28 JULY 61, THAT INANITION

REFLIED 29 SEPT 6?, THEN AGAIN 20 OCTOBER GD. WHEN ELMARD

VOTED ABOVE AND QUERIED ODENVY REP BERN LAITER REPLIED THAT :

ORIGINAL QUERY RE OSWALD ORIGINATED FROM ODENVY REP PARIS., SPECULATE

ODENVY CHECKED PARIS AND BERN IN CONNECTION PERSONS ASSOCIATED WITH

FAIR PLAY FOR CURA COMMITTEE INCLUDING OSWALD.

XUBARK ONLY: SIGNIFICANCE OF REFERENCE TO ALBERT

SCIWEITZER COLLEGE AT CHURWALDEN NOT KNOWN TO STATION.

QUICK

CHECK STATION FILES SHOWS NO TRACES. CHECK PHONE BOOK SHOWS

COLLECE LISTED AT CHURWALDEN, GRAUBUENDEN.

WILL REVIEW ABOVE ASPECTS OSWALD CASE WITH ODENVY REP BERN

ON 29 NOVEMBER •

ADVISE ANY HQS GUIDELINES.

SE C

T

C/S COMMENT:

*Forwarded information on Marina Nikolaeva Oswald, wife

of Lee Harvey Oswald, which was volunteered by Moroccan student

Mohamed Reggab.

**Forwarded station comments on INANITION. (2) memo

concerning Richard Thomas Gibson,

who was acquainted with Oswald.

SEth

14 53217

DocId: 32373242

Page 3

---

