# docid-32136342

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

. DATE: • 11-14-2017

JrK Assassinauon System

Identification Form

Agency Information

4/1J14U1

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10053-10360

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-4913X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

CIA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE: 03/29/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFK, ASSA, INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/22/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.l

DocId: 32136342 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Moteased under the tohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USE 2107,

•DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

es: 9378772944

CIA HAS NO ORIENTION TO

DECLASSI

YOR,

RELEASE:

AVIATION

IN THIS

ASSANIZED

GImB 2/24191 9803 RD0/82 3/1/4 Ste)

29 March 1967

JohN F.

249-021417

3645-4

SUBJECT:

EHAMROCK (S)

CLA

72356

785413

PereiA tell 9 23)

Please refer to your informal note, dated

27 March 1967, captioned. as above, in which you propose

to disseminate to the Department of Justice and Depart

assassination of President

Kennedy.

Man. File

*as you are aware, at a meeting on 18 January

that for the time being there would be no dissemination

to other agencies of information from this source with-

out prior agreement between your Bureau and this Agency,

nd that there wild'be no notillcation aI other agencie

bout the existence of this new source at the presen

Eime.

ve aather that vou

We also believe that certain items of SHAM-

could be dissemi

nated at this

time.

- However,

"before either your

Bureau

or this Agency

make

mation, we believe that we should reach agreement on the

division of responsibility between our offices for dis-

semination of the various categories of information; on

the appropriate source descriptions to be used in such

disseminations,

andion

whether or not it might be neces-

sary at

this time

to brief selected individuals in the

Department of State

possibly the White House on the

nature

the

sourc

REC 40:

62-109060-4913X

Specifically, we would priboRhearimour bureau

be

responsible for the disseminals dUNdalfl information

pertaining to the internal security of the United States,

while we would handle the dissemination of information

pertaining

tO

this

Agency's counterintelligence respon-

<sIbilities

abroad,

and

to the Agency's own security re-

sponsibilities

well as positive intelligence reporting

from

the

sourc

CLASSITIED BY 5668SL0/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X OX

1946423/98

NI CHILI TENDINO

01967

105-162

725

---

## Page 3

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107}

Hotel.

' •DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

4. As far as source descriptions are concerned, we

believe that it is important that the source description

used by both your bureau and the Agency clearly state

that the reliability. of the source himself (rather than

simply that of his informations has not yet been estab-

lished. or example

one of the following descriptions

might be appropriate le(n)

a.

"A confidential informant, contact with

whom has been insufficient to establish his relia-

bility"

2652(4)

"A soviet source whose reliability has

not been established"#*)

E. [soviot officialuno is avare that his

information is being passed to the U.S. Government.

of the positive intelligence intor-

mation acon shamrock nich we would prepose to disseminate

at this time deals with United Nations matters, and much

0f it will inevitably raise questions

from consumers, we

believe that we will ultimately find it necessary to

and nature of the source with Ambassa-

dor Goldberg and Decretary Fe State SKIe vate Ambas

any necessity for this at the present time, we

o wish to cald your attention to the fact that extensiv

issemination of SHAMROCK information on united Nations S

matters will very likely require that this be done.

6.

Even subject to agreement on the points raised

labove, however, we still have serious reservations about

the dissemination of the information contained in your

memorandum.

This report deals with a subject which owing

to exceptional circumstances makes objective evaluation

of the information set forth extremely difficult. Essen-

tially, the report contains two basic elements:

information about the KGB commission established to in-

U5SK

vestigate the circumstances. president Kennedy death, Elu,

and information on Lee Harvey Oswald's relationship with

the KGB. HAs far as we know, there has been no previous

reporting on the existence.

ot such a commission.

important to note, however, thatsthe alleged conclusions

37(4)

If this commission that President Kennedy was killed by

conspiracy of right wing monopolists--have long com-

prised the standard Soviet line on this subject.

To cite

but two examples, KHRUSHCHEV took this tack in an inter-

view he granted to columnist Drew Pearson in early 1964

SECRE (2)

DocId: 32136342.

Page 3.

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel: •DATE: 11-14-2017

3:-

(see attached column from the Washington Post of 26 June

the tracks Lead?" [Kuda vedut sledyl by A./-ORYSH and

was submitted for publication on < sep-

témber 1964.

This book spells

out the theory of a sight

wing conspiracy in great detail.

It is interesting in

this connection that

the surname of one of the two authors,

SERGEYEV, is identical with the alias used by SITNIKOV

in his contacts with both Pierre Salinger and Donald

Brennan.

In any event, aside from the existence of a

either new or significant..

*Further in this regard, we note that the iden-

tification of SITNIKOV as being chief of a sector, Infor-

Section, International Department, Central Committee

of the CPSU is

miskeading in that according to SHAMROCK,

at the

that IINIKOY,was studying the assassination

of. President Kennedy he was still Deputy Chief 0Fthe-In=

formation service.

First Chief Directorate, KGB. Asee

transcript of Meeting #17; page 12, in which SHAMROCK&

dates SITNIKOV's transfer to the CC in 1965, when SKRYABIN

who was then chief of the American Department of

the FCD,

chief responsibility for weighing the evidence that

been gathered by KGB sources on the President's

death. See transcript of Meeting #4, page 18.)) We sug-

gest, therefore, that the report be made consistent by

either including KULEBYAKIN's name or deleting SITNIKOV's;

or at least the SITNIKOV be clearly identified as still

within the KGB at the time f(x)

8. In connection with the Soviet assessment of

USSA.

U55

this topic by providing the current Soviet assessment of

President Johnson. *ISee Eranscript of Meeting #4, page 20.JG)

While it is true that this assessment of President John-

son was in answer to a direct question by one of the in-

terviewing officers,and that the source's information

on

Es]

this is not directly relevant to the assassination

President Kennedy, we nonetheless believe that the juxta-

the two Presidents is

SECRET

DocId: 32136342 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hotel. • DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

4

significant and would be of some value to consumers in

evaluating the report because of the similarity of these

remarks to those made oyxother soviet officials arouna

Eu)

the world in pursuance of what

appears to be a semi-offi-

cial "line."

(A good example of this is to be found in

SITNIKOV's meetings with Pierre Salinger in Moscow in

the spring of 1965.114

9. Finally, it is the part of the report that deals

with Lee Harvey Oswald's relations with the KGB--or

rather the lack of such a relationship--that raises seri-

ous problems. As you are

aware, much the same story about

Oswald, although in considerably greater detail and

allegedly based on first-hand knowledge, has been related

DY NOSENKO.

Agency firmly believes that NOSENKO did

not in fact have first-hand knowledge of the relations

between the

KGB and OSWALD, and that NOSENKO's story on

OSWALD is a KGB-prepared message.

Similarly, this Agency

believes that SHAMROCK's statements on OSWALD cannot auto-

EJ

matically be accepted as accürate or valid, and that the

exact nature of the

KGB relationship with OSWALD has

not

yet been established.

Attachment

As Stated Above

GOA SECRET

DocId: 32136342

Page 5

---

