# docid-32330075

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90089-10110

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1622-75

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

MM

HQ

DATE: 01/25/1961

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

TT

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330075

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE_

210/81

_BYa89aPmulBAlDms

5-7-94

URGENT 125-51

11-55 PM EST TD

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

// 1961

TELETYPE

TO DÍRECTOR, FBI /2-16221

mas-

20nt

Wir.

Conrad

NIr.

IeLoach.

Bli. Malone.

Mr. McGuire.

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Trotter

Mr. Evans.-

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

FROM SAC, MIAMI

12-156/

NeutRAlity. MATteR

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER

• ROJAS, /NM. REMYTEL AND BUTEL CALL

JANUARY TWENTYFIFTH. KENNETH J. PROCTOR AND FOUR OF HIS

BAUCRANEN

COMPANIONS, INCLUDING MILFORD GARFIELD LAWSON, THORNTON LEWIS

TOWNSEND, ANDREW LEE CAMPBELL, AND KENNETH GIRARD WOODLAND,

LOCATED AND INTERVIEWED NIGHT OF JANUARY TWENTYFIFTH. EACH

DENIED KNOWLEDGE OF SPECIFIC INVASION PLANS. CLAIMED THEY

HAD NO PLAN TO DEPART FOR CUBA IN NEAR FUTURE, PRINCIPALLY

BEACUSE THEY ARE UNACCEPTABLE TO ALL ANTI CASTRO GROUPS IN

THIS AREA. THEY DENIED THEY HAD ANY PLANS TO OBTAIN BOAT,

ARMS OR EQUIPMENT. PROCTOR, HOWEVER, HAD IN HIS POSSESSION

ROUGH SKETCH OF WHAT APPEARS TO BE PORTION OF CUBA AND BEARING

THE NAMES OF NAMALATA AND GUAJAIBON. PROCTOR ALSO HAD IN HIS

POSSESSION NAMES OF SOME OF PERSONS PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED BY

MiAMi l

9=5

MM SIX THREE NINES AS BEING CONNECTED WITH PROPOSED

EXPEDITION. PROCTOR DENIED KNOWLEDGE OF SIGNIFICANCE OF

ABOVE ITEMS, CLAIMING HE FOUND THEM IN LOBBY OF HOTEL DE

WHERE HE RESIDES. PROVISIONS OF NEUTRALFfY"

•PE CU2 - 75

"STATUTES'

POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF ANY INVASION OF CUBA BY AMERICANS3O 1961

VIGOROUSLY POINTED OUT TO ABOVE PERSONS.

ALL STATED THEY

END PAGE ONE 10

1-26 detoner to

Belinat

8 FBI

1961

det to tate a biterested a geneces

1-968

FRDS/84d.

NW 54460 DooId: 32330075

Page 2

---

