# docid-32293682

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10211-10458

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TEETER, FRANKLIN B.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 11/28/1960

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

•D-263 (Fav. 5-1-59%

FEDERAL

SECRET

BUREAU OF INVE

LIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

i NEW YORK

NEW YORK

11/28/60

9/15 - 11/8/60

ITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

FRANKLIN B. TEETER

vmm

YURIY ALEKSEEVICH MISHUKOV aka 5

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE D% CV INFORMATION

ENEMAL SECURITY - TES

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 7-30-97

XXXXXXXXX

SEDIASA

REFERENCES

0(21)

8126-97

Quo Pet that dy

(JFK)

Report of SA FRANKLIN B.

Bulet to NY, 9/28/60.(p fu)

TEETER, 7/28/60, at No dude

EP -78/4)

#211326

Classified by.

ADMINISTRAIIVE

Declassay on:

5D8 mAK ASK

The identities of the SAS who

observed the subject's

-21-94

activities during

; the period from 9/15/60 through 11/1/60,

(JFK)

Igcated in NY 105-27649, Sub A and 100-92701,

Subs A, B,

C. 51

in connection with the subject's visits to the CS.

Soviet Delegation during the months of

therefis set forth below a breakdown of these visits according

to the days of the weekl

5) 5668540/nde12/79740-25-97

CLASSIFIED EY 56ale8 SLD/K

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X 1, 6

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

JFK

ADO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

5

-

Bureau 105-64471

1 105-164471-

(Into) RI

2/6

1

Washington Field

105-23164) (Info) (R)

3

•- New York L 105-27649

(5)

= NOV 29 1960

EX 105

REC- 19

1663) 47

EX 102

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

8 - 2109 3 097.31972

AGENCY late; Cu; BAB(ISD)

REG. AFCD

DATE KRY

12= 21-00

HOW TOn.

BY

917/2+

Notations

/copies made

for review at FBino by.

(SECRET

MV 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 2

---

## Page 3

[ANX 105-27649 ] (51

Monday - 3

Tuesday-

3

Wednesday

Thursday -

Friday -

3

Saturday

-

Sunday -

An analysis of the foregoing

fails to reflect

any aiscernible significant pattern to the subject's visit:

co the Soväel. 5

For the information of the Bureau, NY has received

no information which would in any way indicate that subject

has renewed or attempted to renew his contacts with former

NY 2620+S ROBERT A. CURRY) since returning to the US froms)

the last interview with CURRY he (S)

stated that he would notify the FBI in the event that

VISHUKOV contacted him. To date, he apparontly has not been

NY has closed 105 cases on DUSHKA HOWARTH, AMERICO

SALEBE and PAUL WONNACOTT. None of the three are considered

to be security risks and are not deemed to have

any current

potential as informants and/or double agents, 5)

The Bureau's attention 1s called to the fact that

NY 3068-S 1s former PSI

Subsequent to the preparation of the details of this report,

reported to the NYO that he had lunch with the

subject

on 11/15/60, and the Soviet indicated that he wanted(5)

to keep him posted on all coming activities at NYU.

Based

on the fact that he apparently will have continue

contacts with MISHUKOVE

has been designated NY

3068-S and NY 1s continuing Its efforts to develop this

informant into a double agent to be operated against subject 5)

The details of informant's 11/15/60 contact with MISHUKOVIES

will be included in the next report on the subject.

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

(в)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRETER)

NY 105-27649 (5)

With respect to subject's past association with

attention 1s called to the fact that on 9/15/60,/,c .l

Land 9/30/60, this Informant reported that he had not heard

He had lS.

previously told Ny 2744s that he would get in touch with

him when he (MISHUKOV) returned from home leave in the CS]

Soviet Union. Ny plans to continue Its elforts to airect

MY 27u-s activities against the subject It is in the CS_

process of formulating a situation for the informant

to initiate a contact wIth MISHUKoV.(Sy

In connection with the subject's attendance.

at the 10/14/60 party, attention is called to the fact

that NY does not plan at this time to open a case on

ALEXANDER KUTILIN. KUTILIN advised that he doubted if

1ther MISHUKOV or BUKATIY were inüerested in him. He S

apparently based this belfef on the fact that they did not

solicit his address and telephone number duzing the party

and further on the fact that they are well aware of his

anti-Communist, anti-Soviet feelings.(5

KUrTLIN stated that if he should learn anything

further with respect to the Soviets" association with (S

NATALIE KISSELEFF, he would Immediately contact the NYo.

He further advised that should he be contacted by these

or any other soviet would notify the BI.

Ny has opened a 105 contact case on NATALIE

KISSELErF and is in the process of conducting a background

Investigation. ' Upon the completion of this investigation,

consideration will be given to requesting permission to

interview her. It is noted that KUTILIN advised that, he '

felt that Miss KISSETEFF was very naive in her association

with the soviets, but that he believes she is anti-Cormunist S

in her feelings d

(C)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 4

---

## Page 5

(N: 205-27649] (5)

copies of this report are being furnished to

Newark and WEO for information purposes Inasmuch as both

these offices have conducted investigation in this

matter in the past and it is anticipated that they may

have leads in the future. (& (4)

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY 1-

FESINY 26837-515)

NY T-2

GUSTAVE LIEBERMAN

Supt..

File Number Where Located

{05-27649-427, 5551(8)

105-27649-554 and

Instant report Pag

(Furnished orally to SA

FRANKLIN B. TRETER On 11/8/60)

Ave.,

Flushing, Queens,

NY

(By request)

7

NY I-4

Momen Ny 26201574

A

105-27649-550

105-27649-424,

OTHER 1B,1C, 5

(D)

COVER PAGE

SECRETI

(ru)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRED GA)

(u)

[Ny 105-2764915^

Identity of Source

NY

KEY 2895-515(3)

NY T-6

Physical Observation Posts

Maintained in Vicinity

X 8/1/55 enđ 9/26353

NY T-7

Former PSI

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN

345 W. Soth St., NYC

(By request)

NY T-8

100 charemont Ave., NYC

(By request)

NY T-9

NY 3068-S

FIle Number Where Located

105-27649-479

205-27651-222

Pages 25-29

(2

105-27649-474

(5)

OTHER 4

105-27649-460, 474

105-27649-541,

-557

-563

205-27649-556, 559

NY T-10

ALEXANDER KUTILIN

1431 Madison Ave., NYC

(By request)

/ NY T-11

JACKIE MORGAN

Auditing Dept.,

Chemical Bank NY Trust Co.,

2 Broadway,

NYC

(By request)

Instant Report - Pages 37 and 18

(Furnished to SA MERRILT

REESE on 9/27/60 and 10/28/60)

(E)

COVER PAGE

"SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 6

---

## Page 7

[NY 105-27649 7651

Careful consideration has been given to the sources

concealed and I symbols were utilized only in those instances

where it was deemed advisable to conceal the sources. My U

Identified below are the informants who were

contacted re MISHUKCV]for the period 9/15/60 through (S

11/1/60, but were unable to furnish any information:

NY 534-5t1(5)

2651-S*

LEADS

NEW YORK

* New York, New York (4)

Will discreetly contact the Caine Brothers

Furniture Store, 1421 3rã Ave., NYC, to ascertain 1f the

subject issued the 10/12/60 check for $50.00 to that

establishment and, 1f so,

which this check was issued. Putain the purpose tos

Will continue to analyze the subject's

visits to the Soviet Delegation to ascertain 1f any

significant pattern develops (S

Will monitor, on a monthly basis, the subject's

redit account at the Socony Mobil 01l co.

for the purpose

I detecting travels outside the NYC area (S

4. Will continue to monitor, on a monthly basis, <5~

the subject's checking account at the

Chemical Bank NY Trust C SJ

Co. and in so coing,

will closely analysc all cash wundrawals) (S)

to determine, if possible,

whether these funds are being

utilized for purposes other than routine ilving expenses. (e)

(F)

COVER PAGE

SECRETI

& u)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 7

---

## Page 8

[wy 105-276491(5)

NY 2744.

(4) 0) 5.

Will continue to direct the activities of

+S and NY 3008-s in an effort to develop a double

gent to be operated against the subject, with special e

mphasis on the possibility of his being prosecuted fo:

Illegal activities in which he may engage in the future.(M

Will continue efforts to develop other

sources,

DESECOs and PSIs to be placed in contact with the

subject. (5)

•7.

Will follow and report information concerning

the subject's activities, contacts and associates, obtainea

through fisurs,

sources

and informants

and other investigative

techniques. (5)

(C1218191 cation JA(4)

This report is classifiea "secret" because it

contains information pertaining to a double agent operationS,

The accompanying letterhead memorandum is classified

"Confidential" because it reflects investigation

conducted

by the Bureau concerning(an official of a foreign government,](5)

which, because or its delicate nature, requires State

Department clearance.

(G*)

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 8

---

## Page 9

.?

NITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTI

USTICE

TION

[copy to: 1k74)

Report of: SA FRANKLIN B. TEETER

Office:

New York, New York

Date:

11/28/60

friend office Ple NO.: New York (O5-27649"

805-0447115

fritze: YURIX ALEKSEEVICH MISHUKOV ](51

10-28-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SUD/KSR

DECLASSIFY, ON: 25X_

2668320 ads

INTERNAL SECURITY - R RU)

12/1348372)

(JFK)

Loharacter:

Synopsis:

and his wifeson 8/15,50; they departed this country on (

home leave on 6/1/60

but returned on 9,14/60.

They CSJ

secretariat.

¿o use NY I-4'g nam

set forth. (%)

E•-JX(21)

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency. 4) U

SECRET AU

#-216,370

Classified by

Declassify on:

OGDR 3/25/85

7-24-44

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(MY 105-27649](5)

DETATIS: 108(4)

E BACKOROVAD JEAN CU

(moval and Departure ata (53

Records, Visa Division, United States Department

I State, Washington, D.C..

States as an employee of the untied Nations (UND New York Che/LS)

Records,

Immigration and Naturalization Seryice

(INS), 20 West Broadway,

New York City, reflect that/MISHUKOV CS.

first artived in the United States on November

and his wire arrived later on August 15, 1958.57

accompanied by their daughter,

States on June 1, 1960, aboard the

"RMS Queen Mary"

However

they re-entered this country on September 14, 1960, aboard (5]

Scandinavian Airlines System, Flight number gIl, at New York

International Airport. (S

B.

Residence Data Te(U)

un March 10, 1950, NY T-l reported that (yuRIy(s]

and ROZA MISHUKOV planned to obtain an apartment i

Colonial Hotel, 51 West &1st Street, New York City:

51222

was paying rent on a weekly basis in advance, at the rate

of $47.50 per week. (9)

•2. (2)

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 10

---

## Page 11

(NY 105-27649 7(51

On October I1, 1960, NY T-2 reported that (Soviets CS]

scheduled to move into the renone Apartments 132055 ex

scheduled to move

5 Sanford CS

According to the informant co these best as to have (ST

Avenue, Flushing, Queens, New York,

a separate apartment and had signed a two-year lease rather

than the customary three-year one•

NY T-2 explained that

these (Soviets) had been allowed to do this because or the CS-

$128.00 per month. (%)

soviet national BORIS I. BUKATIY is currentlyCS-

mployed as a ranslator in the Russian Section

Language and Meetings Service,

Ortice of Conferenc

ervices, UN Secretariat, New York City.lS

Soviet national IVAN A. BELOVis also currently (SU

employed as la Translator at the UN Secretariat. (S)-

C.

Employment Data

724)

on september 20,

arom nome leave earlier that month and had taken up his

duttes as a Translator in the Russian Section, Language and CS]

Meetings Service, Office of Conference Senyices,

secretariat According to the informant, MISHUKOy "looked (SJ

terrible"

Jost a lot of weight, ana he appeared to

be very nervous. (

working the night shift beginning that week.

Informant

explained that these Soviets would work a 3:30 p.m. to 12:00 (JJ

midnight shift and would alternate between one week of nights

and one week of days.

Informant added that when working

night shift the Soviets" work waek would run from Monday

they

through Friday, but that when they worked the day shift,

their work week would run Monday through Saturday, with

day off of their own choosing during the following week.

- 3 -

SECRETI

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 11

---

## Page 12

ANX: 105-27649 (5):

Automobile Data ]O)(U)

On a number of occasions since his return to

che Unitea States on September 1+

observed by Special Agents of the Pederal Bureau Jhas been (SJ

Investigation (FBI) to travel about in the New York City

1, bearing 1900 New York

Attention is called to the fact that thels

records

of the New York State Motor Vehicle Bureau reflect

that MiSHUKOV)is the owner of this vehicle. (5)

MOVEMENT.

COVINERTON IT COUT INEIGENCE

_NY I-4 reported that during a

Y 1-4 that he felt that his personal mail was closelyC.

crutinized by United States Government officials, andS

NY T-4, (S]

subsequently, on October 6, 1959, NY 1-4 reportec

that he had received a letter for MISHUKOVa This letter was CS.

addressed to the informant, utilizing the Incorrect middle

initial ""." as had been previously agreed upon by NY I-4

was deted Ogtober 3, 1959.

oper 159s starked med thietachusetts, (ST

over to MISHUKOV on October 7, 1959.1

In the months following May, 1959, NY I-4

periodically reported that MISHUKOV had encouraged him to

seek employment with the United States Department of Stace, S

or some other sensitive government agency, so that he (the

Informant) would be in a better position to aid the Soviets (S

- 4 -

SECRET

(тИ)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682 Page 12

---

## Page 13

[SECRET A

NY 105-27649(5)

1150, during this period, MISHUKOV gave NY T-4 instructions LS.

concerning (security precautions to be followed

in connectiones

with (their meatings (5)

Ny I.dl that they would pay him a sum ranging between

As late as February 3, 1960, (MISHUKOV)prontsed (S)

$100.00 and $150.00 a month für his services.

sUp mentand to the Informant that the Soviet una (sl

supplement his income up to $500.00 per month 1f he would

quit his then current job and attend school in either.

Wasnington, D.C.,

Massachusetts,

for the purpose

of preparing himself for a job with the United States State

Department, (S)

However, on March 16, 1960, NY I-4 reported

that due to

"emotional and health problems"

, he had made

up nis mina to discontinue his association with MISHUKOV. CS.

Informant further indiçated that he planned to attena no

further meetings wiüh the soviet, but pointed out that shouldlS_

MISHUKOV seek him out he would tell the soviet that he could (s

not go on with their meetings.

Subsequently, on May 29, 1960, NY I-4 reported that

MISHUKOV) had contacted him by telephone in an effort to sets

up a meeting prior to his (MISHUKOV's) departure for the

Soviet Union on home leave, Tentative arrangements were

made for a meeting on May 29, 1960; however, informant

advised that he did not plan

to actually attend this

meeting and reiterated his intencion üo deves lis

association with MISHUKOV.(S)

(Grenoble Apartments, 132-35 Sanford Avenue, Flushing, Queens, (S)

-5 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 13

---

## Page 14

SECRET

NY 105-27649 (5)

New York City, On a majority of these

Chevrolet,

instances

trayelled in

the company of other Soviet nationals employed LS_

at the UN. (S)

In connection with his visits to (the Soviet (5)

he (UN Secretariat. S

CONTACTS AND ASSOCIATES ($ (U)

A. Former

(* (4)

Xion SUSHKA HOWARTIN] (5)

On May 9, 1960, NY I-5 Identified DUSHKA HOWARTH,.

Secretary for a Securities Dealer lin New York City,

evening dancing with one of them, Soviet YURIY A. MESHUKOV. (S)

as DUSHKA HOWARTH, 226 East 7Cth]street, New York City,

On July I1, 1960, CYNITA ANN HOWARTH alsO 110mCE

MISHUKOV? (S)

-6 -

SECRET

(7) (21)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 14

---

## Page 15

SECRET K

(И)

MY 105-27649 651

She advised that early in May,,

1960, she attended

whom sne had previously met at a meeting of the International

ner to fellow Soviets YURIY A. MISHUKOV and LEONID A.

KOVALEN J (5]

Un a number of occasions during this party Miss ESJ

HOWARTH engaged in conversation with YURIY A. MISHUKOZ and CS.

sne explained that she speaks a few woras of th

Russian language and that their conversations consistears

primarily i how to pronounce various Russian words. S)

Miss HOWARTEl concluded the July 11, 1960 interview(s)

by advising that she had heard from none of the above-

identified Soviets since the May, 1960 parüy.451

Prior to his departure irom the United States.

on (S)

June 1, 1900, Soviet LEONID A. KOVALEV was(S]

Translator in the Russian Section, CS

Language

and Meetings Service, Office of

Conierence Services, United Nations Secretaria

New

York City. ()

Accoraing to NY T-6, KOVALEV engaged in Soviet

C5]

intelligence

activities while in the Unived

States and employed at the UN Secretariat. (5)

WIth AMERICO SALSEE (* (U)

On April 19, 1960, NY I-T reported that during

a recent conversation with AMERICO SALEBE, identified as a

former Colombian national, and an employee of the Lockheed

Aircraft Company at the New York International Airport,

e (Informans) learned that SALEBE was acquainted with

several Soviets employed at the UN.] According to thes

Informant, SALEBE related that from the summer of 1958, (%)

-7-

SECRET

NU 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 15

---

## Page 16

(SECRETI

EX 205-27649 (5)

conni

DY LIBBY HOLMAN ENOLDS,

he had attended several parties given

a Nearlay socialite and had taken

LEONID KOVALEV and VADIM (Last

Name Unknown) to some of these parties.

NY. I-T further advised that SALEBE stated tha

ne had met the Soviets through his roommate. HENNIS HARBER.

a former English Instructor at-the Berlitz Schöol of

in HARBER's English classin

past and that he had met

several of these individuals xt

On April 20, 1960, NY T-8 reported that during

a party wnich he attended on April 16, 1960, he had overheard

YURIY MISHUKOV.

KOVALEy] answered that MISHUKOVIwas fine (5)

at the party.(

On july 21, 1960, and August 1l, 1960, AMERICO

JOSEPH SALEBE, who resides

at 454 West 22nd Street,

New York

City, and is

employed as an Aviation Electrician at Lockheed

Aircraft Service International, Incorporated, New York

International Airport, Jamaica, Queens, New York, furnished

he rollowing information concerning hi:

with Soviet nationals employed

at the Undo Spected Agents 5

FRANKLIN B. TEETER and RICHARD W. HILL: RI

(S)Russiansas students and explained that they were in effect,

international civil servants as they worked for the United

Nations organization rather, than being members of the Soviet

Union's Delegation to the United Nations.7 SALEBE met onlvS

twofof these Soviets,] and under the following circumstances:

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 16

-8 -

SECRETI

---

## Page 17

SECRET

и)

[Nx 105-27649 (5)

The first soviet he met was introduced to him as

LEONID KOVALEY DYZ HARBER. XSALEBE met this indiviaual in the S

spring

of 1958> when he accompanied DENNIS HARBER to theo

He next saw KOvAl somettme during the ammer of 1958,

when he attended a party on West f9th Street, New York City,

which was given by Miss ANNETTE EPSTEIN, another Instructor

at the Beritz School.fg)

Also present at this party was another (Sovietfs)

national who was introdused by KOVALEV as /"GEORCE

and

further identified as a fellow worker at the United Nations

Secretariat. During the course of the evening, SALEBE (S)

onversed on several occasions with both KOVALEV anc

'GEORGE" These conversations were purely social in s

3 order and no eaten wad not no a dese i pete e

Following the party given by ANNETTE EPSTEIN,

SALEBE saw Soviet LEONID KOVALEVIon a number of occasions, S

either at the Berlitz School or when Ehe Soviet came to (S)

his and HARBER's apartment for English lessons.

Spring

of 1959.

Is next contact with KOVALBy &curred in the

Sometime in March, 1959, Mrs. LIBBY

HOLMAN REYNOLDS invited SALEBE to an art exhibition to be

held at a gallery on Madison Avenue.

SALEBE explained that

Mrs. REYNOIDS was a wealthy woman he had met some five years

previously when he operated a Hi Fidelity Repair Shop.

was referred to him by another customer and had utilized his

services both in connection with Hi-Fi systems in her New

York City apartment and her home in Connecticut.

As a result

of doing work for Mrs. REYNOLDS, she had invited him to

several cocktail parties and other such affairs.

-9 -

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page

17

---

## Page 18

(SECRET SEW)

(17 205-2764975)

a man dold sato that

addition to inviting him to the art exhibition,

MieS• REYNOLDS COla SALEBE that she was planning a tour o1

che Far East and wanted to include the Soviet Union in thi:

our JOshe asked if SALEBE ON DENNIS HAREER knew any Soviets

ho might be able to cive her some ideas as to th

entertainment which would be accepted in the USSR. (S)

As a result of Mrs. REYNOLDS' request, SALEBE

ontacted LOVALEV by telephone at the United Nations.] Hel

him to the art exhibition. [KOVALEVistated he would be arts)

xplained to the Soviet what Mrs. REYNOLDS wanted and invited(s

to talk to Mrs. REYNOLDS and they agreed to meet at the

OTHER 1B,1C

Following the exhibition, SALESE and KOVALEV (S

attended a party given by LIBBY HOLMAN REYNOLDS

York City apartment.

During this affair, Mrs. REYNOLDS

talked about herproposed tour with KOVALEV in SALEBE'S(5)

presence. [KOVALEV told Mrs. REYNOIDS that he did not think (5)

that the type of concert she was planning would be very well

received (in the USSRand aiso stated that he äid not believe(S)

she could arrange it/under the official exchange program

arrange it

she should contact the Intourist organization./S

SALEBE's last contact with [KOVALEV ccurred in

April, 1960, when he attended a party held at the residence

Of BURTON FOREMAN on Claremont Avenue near Columbla University,

New York pIty. NISALEBE identified FOREMAN as a former

Instructor at the Berlitz School of Languages who currently

hang panese at he panta

He further explained that he

Jat the party given by ANNETTE EPSTEIN during

the summer of 1958, and did not know him well, adding that

it was ANNETTE EPSTEIN who Invited him to the April, 1960, party

SALEBE advised that he arrived at the

arty at approximately 10:00 p.m. and knew few of the people

However, KOVLAEV showed up at the affair

approximately one hour later, and they visited together

socially on several occasions, [KOVAlEVleft the party, alone, (57

OTHER 4

- 10 -

SECRETI

• NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 18

---

## Page 19

SECRET RU)

[Y 105-27649](5)

at 12:30 p.m,

SATEBE remained at the affair until it ended

at approximately 4:00 a.m. and spent most of the time dancing

with a girl introduced to him by ANNETTE EPSTEIN. (X)

Following the above resume of his contacts with

SKOVALEVT SALEBE advised that, all of his contacts with this

5 soviet had been purely social in nature and "above board"

added that KOVALEV had at no time asked him about his job (s

at the New York International Airport and in fact had wade:.

no unusual requests.

SALEBE stated that he considers himself

a loyal American, even though he is a naturalized citizen,

and would have discontinued his association with KOVAIEV, S

limited as it was, if the Soviet had acted suspicious in

any way.

SATEBE advised that he had

only met and talked with this

concerning "GEORGE, sovietIon the one occasion, the (5)

party given by ANNETTE EPSTEIN during the Summer of 1958.

However, he stated that from remarks that KOVALEVIhad made S

ne got the impression that ("GEORGE"

was also present als)

the March, 1959, art exhibition, although if so, he,

(S) "GEORGE" did not attend tha party held afterwards at LIBBY

"HOLMAN REYNOLDS' apartment.

During the course of the above interviews, SALEBE

positively identifiedla photograph of Soviet national LEONID

AFANASIEVICH KOVALEV as the LEONID KOVALEV he had met through (S)

DENNIS HARBER. He further positively identifieda photograph

of Soviet national YURIY: ALEKSEEVICH MISHUKOV as the Soviet

known to him as

"GEORGE'

8 (S

[With PAUL WONNACOTT 10R) (4)

In January, 1960, NY T-1 reported that PAUL

WONNACOTT, identified as an Economics Instructor at Columbia

University, and a part-time employee at the UN Secretariat,

was one of

a few Americans who attended the Christmas party

given bythe Soviets at the UN on December 23,

1959, and

had met soviet Iranslator YURIY A. MISHUKOV at this

party (5)

- 11 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682

Page 19

---

## Page 20

[SECRET JE(u)

NY 105-27549 (5)

Informant further advised that subsequently on

vanuary It, 1900, WONNACOTT had lunch with MISHUKOV at the

UN Cafeterial (5)

on october 5, 1900, GORDON PAUL WONNACOIT, 25

Claremont Avenue, New York City,

an Instructor of Economics

at columbia University, who was formerly employed from

October, 1959 to March, 1960, as an Economic Consultant

at the UN, furnished SA FRANKLIN B. TEETER and SA ARTHUR H.:

UN: (5)

WONNACOTT advised that during

; the Christmas season

of 1959, he astended a number of parcies lat the UN, one of

which was given by the Soviets. He stated that he did not

recall whether he received a specific invitation to the Soviet S

christmas party, but advised that he felt that in ali

probability he had not.

He ezplained that most of the

Christmas parties lat the UN were open affairs with many (5)

people coming and going.

WONNACOTT advised that during the Soviet Christmas

arty he met a nunber of Soviet nationals briefly, but diais

ot recall most of their names. He pointed out that he did

recall meeting al Soviet couple

Soviet Translator YURIY A.

MISHUKOV ard his wife, ROZA, He furnished the following

Information about his conversations with this couple:

WONNACOTT explained that his conversations with

(5) YURIY and ROZA MISHUKOV were primarily social in nature.

behind Communism.

argumentative stage.

- 12 -

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 20

---

## Page 21

SECRET ](SCU)

Ny 105-27649 (5)

with MISHUKOV at the UN.

or the exact dates of these luncheon engagements, but stated

that he did recall that the first one took place in early

January, 1960 and

the last one occurred in the latter part

of April, 1960.

WONNACOTT stated that to the best of his recollection,

his conversations with MISHUKOV during these luncheon engagements (S)

dealt with a variety of subject's ranging from an exchange

of purely social amenities to rather projonged discussions

of world affairs. WONNACOTT advised that during this latter

type of discussion he went out of his way to let the soviet](5)

know that he was opposed to Communism and to the

Union's approach to international relations. s)

WONNACOTT advised that his last contact with

invited him to attend a

and several other Soviets.

residence in Queens, New York, and according to WONNACOTT

was purely a social gathering. WONNACOTT stated that he

met several (new Soviets]there, but was unable to recall g

their names.*

WONNACOTT concluded the October 5, 1960, 'interview

by advising that he had not heard from MISHUKOV since thes

May 14, 1960, party and, in fact, did not mow ir lthe Soviet](s)

was still in New York City, He explained that during the

May 14, 1960, party, MISHUKOV had told him that he was(s)

scheduled to return

Soviet Union on home leave:

near future, 5)

current €#(u)

[wath Ny I-9 fe(4)

on August 26,

1960, NY T-9 reported that he had

returned to New York City on August 1, 1950,

following an

extended vacation in Europe.

since has that he hat not heare

from Soviet YURIY A. MISHUKOV since his return and pointed,

out that he did not actually know if MISHUKOV himself had (S)

- 13 -

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 21

---

## Page 22

SECRET SO

(1)

NY 205-27649 (5)

returned to the United States from home leave.

Informant

stated that he presumed MISHUKOV would contact him as

E)

promised during their last meeting in April, 1960.(%)

on October 28, 1960, NY T-9 reported that he had

been In telephonic contact with MISHUKOV at the UNJon the(s)

previous day.

He intited the Soviet to attend a Halloween(S)

party being given on October 28, 1960, by the Washingtor

Square College Evening Organization of New York University (NYU).

According to the informant, MISHUKOV|was quite friendlys)

and accepted the invitation even though he told NY T-9

that he was working the night shift fat the UNf (5,

York University had

been revived. Informant asked MISHUKOV](S)

if it would be possible for himfor some other Soviet

official at the UNto address a future meeting of the

HRFC. MISHUKOV approved of the idea, but no definite

arrangements were made. Along this line, Ny I-9 stated

that he also invited MISHUKOV to attend the next meetingS

of the HRFC scheduled for Thursday evening, November 3,

1960, and [the Soviet gecepted this invitation. y

planned to contact/MISHUKOV by telephone to remind him of s

he had been unable to reach MISHUKOV

up at this meeting. Informant advised that he still planned

- 14 -

SECRET

10(4)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682

Page 22

---

## Page 23

SECRET (

NY 105-276497(51

to contact (THUKovI

kould adäress a future meeting of the HRFC.

met MISHUKOV In the halls of the

New York, but pointed

out that he and his wife were not residing with the

Bunkfirs as they had previously planned. (5)

MISHUKOV asked NY I-I to aid in registering

ROZA MISHUKOVA in an English course at the UN. Informant

agreed to do this,

NY T-1 advised that MISHUKOV further mentioned

during their contact that he planned to have a housewarming

party for his new apartment in the future, but no specific

date was set.

with others ]o(u)

1960,

VY T-10 reported that he had

Queens, New York, on

• 1960.

heritage, whom he has known for several years and who is

employed

In the wall Street area in New York City. According

co NY 1-10, two soviet nationals were present a the referred-s

to party and he furnished the following details about his

contacts with these soviets:] (5)

- 15 -

'SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682

Page 23

---

## Page 24

ps 205-27 649 fS,

Informant stated that during the course of the

evening he was introduced tolne two Soklets and one of (5]

them identified himself as BORIS BUKATIY, while

, the other Sp

was only identified by his first name, (YURIY According

to NY T-10, his conversations with these Soviets consisted)

primarily of a discussion of the Soviet as compared to

This resulted in a (sl

"mila" anginens with the informant taking the opposite

VIew of the soviets J(s)

(X)

Informant advised that during the evening BORIS

BUKATIY gave him his UN telephone number SAlso, both of

chese Soviets exhibited interest in the informant's background.

when they learned that he could speak Russian. According

to NY I-10, he untruthfully told the soviets] that he wass,

boxn in the United states although his parents were born

[En Russ1a](5)

What the only other persons

he knew at the October 14, 1960, party, besides MARIA

LIPTON, were MARINA MASLENIKOW, who resides at 500 West

110ch Street,

Informant identified both of these women

and NATASHA KISELEV (phonetic) 5/

as (employees of

by advising that he had not seen the two soviets arrive

Ny T-10 concluded the October 20, 1960 Intexule(5)

at, the october It, 1950 party, but advised that they

spent at least an hour there.

They left

together prior

to the departure of the other guests.

subsequently, on Ocüober 25, 1960, NY T-IC

positively identified photographs of

and YURIY ALEKSEEVICH MISHUKOV as the Soviets he met at thes

October 14, 1960 party:

that he h leaned son Mel in on that the too see

been invited to the party by NATASHA KISELEV (phonetic) • 5)

He added that, although he was not positive on this point,

he was fairly certain that Miss KISELEV (phonetic) had not

left the party with MISHUKOV and BUKATIX. 5 )

- 16 -

SECRET

(,(u)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682. Page 24

---

## Page 25

FERENT AN)

(y 205-27649 763)

According to the pamphlet entitled, Ustaff of the (S)

Library This pamphlet further reflects that

1s employed as a General Service

DIVision Of General Economic Research and Policies,

Department of Economic and Social Affairs, UN

Secretariat. (5)

CHECKING ACCOUNT DATA P, UN

On September

27, 1960, NY I-11 advised that the

below-listed check was drawn against the checking account

maintained by Soviet JURY A. MISHUKOV at the UN brancha s

of the Chemical Bank New York Trust Company during the

month of September, 1960:

Date

Payee

Amount

September 15, 1960

Cash

$ 100.00

On October 28, 1960, NY T-ll reported that the

below-described checks were drawn against MISHUKOV'S] account

during October, 1960:

Date

September 29, 1960

October 6, 1960

October 6, 1960

October 7, 1960

Payee

[Colontal Hote1](s)

Cash

(Lane Realty] (5)

Cash

Amount

$

50.68

50.00

236.00

80.00

- 17 -

SECRET

*(2)

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682 Page 25

---

## Page 26

[X 105-27649 165)

'Date

October 10, 1960.

Payee

Colonial Hotel

Amount

$

50.68

October 12, 1960

October 12, 1960

October 19, 1960

Caine Brothers,

Coionial Hotel

Cash

Inc

50.00

50.68

50.00

The foregoing information furnished by NY T-ll

cannot be made public except in the usual proceedings

following the issuance of a subpoena duces tecum, Attention

is also called to the fact that NY I-ll no longer has

possession

obtained.

1960 and October 12, 1960 checks

Hotel, attention is called to the fact that MISHUKOV resided CS_

at this hotel for several weeks pricr to his having moved

Into tine (Grenoble Apartment in Flushing, Queens, New Yore (3)

In connection with the $236.00 check issued on

October. 6, 1960, attention is called to the fact that on

Nozenner &,

_ 1960, NY T-2 advised that the Lane Realty

Company, 107-40 Queens Boulevard, Forest HIlls, Queens,

New York, is the rental agent for the Grenoble Apartments. (5)

In connection with the $50.00 check issued on

o chered to the race that tre current comportan Telephone

Incorporated, attention CS,

Directory contains a listing for the Caine Brother.

Furniture Store at 1421 3rd Avenue, New York CIty S

VI

MISCETLANEOUS ]((4)

During the period from September 15, 1960 through

November 8, 1960, several informants, who are familiar with

the activities of some Soviet nationalsjin the New York(s

city area were contacted, but were unable to furnish any

information about MISHUKOV: (5)

÷ 18* -

SECRET

NW 45808

DocId: 32293682: Page 26

---

## Page 27

In Reply, Please Refer co

File No.

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York' 28, 1960

New York

November

60499029977(4

character Internal security - 8] (4)

Reference

New York report of Special

All sources (except any listed below) used in

referenced commynication have furnished reliable information

in the past. # 21)

New York I-2 and NY T-10, contact with whom to date

has been insufficient to

Information Furnished. (FlU)

the reliability of the

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusios

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its

contents are not to be distributed

outside your agency. (2)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293682 Page 27

---

