# docid-32330191

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10226

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-344127-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 11/05/1959

PAGES :

5

SUBJECTS :

LEE NAPIER,

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330191

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

rat?

MM 97-254

October 8, 1959:

DANIEL BATISTA, JRi,

active in anti-TRUJILLO activities, attempted

to participate in invasions of the Dominican

Republic and previously arrested in Miami

by U: S:

Customs

agents under the Neutrality

Act:

On August 3, 1959, AL TARABOCHIA, Detective,

Intelligence Unit, Dade County Department of Public

Safety, advised that NAPIER had recently sent some of his

detectives out to the Miami International Airport to

watch certain Cuban Air Force planes being repaired

at

the Air International Company.

TARABOCHIA said that

the airport was outside of the city and not within

NAPIER's Jurisdiction,

and that NAPIER's interest in

these airplanes had not been ascertained

TARABOCHIA stated that ROLANDO MASFERRER,

former Cuban Senator, recently moved to 2339 NoW.

41st Street, recently had a revolutionary meeting at that

address, and that NAPIER attended this meeting.

TARABOCHIA stated that NAPIER and a member

of his, Intelligence Unit, Sergeant SAPP, are in close

contact with MASFERRER.

TARABOCHIA Said that

Patrolman AL ABREIRA, member of NAPIER's unit,

is in

close contact with MARIANO FAGET, former Cuban Colonel

in BRAC.

On August 24, 1959, RICHARD B. JAFFE, PSI,

advised that NAPIER had been in close contact with

MASFERRER, and visits MASFERRER frequently. NAPIER

attempted to purchase MASFERRER's yacht at a ridiculously.

low price, which would have been a way of paying NAPIER

for services done for MASFERRER.

However, MASFERRER

was

counselled against selling his yacht to NAPIER.

-2-

HIH

54460 DocId: 32330191 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 97-254

JAFFE said that AL ABREIRA, a member of

NAPIER's Intelligence Unit, has received gifts of

cigars and other favors from MASFERRER in return for

courtesies which the Miami Police Department has extended

to MASFERRER's associates:

On August 27, 1959, Mr. WALLACE SHANLEY, U.S.

Customs Agent, Miami,

advised that NAPIER investigates

matters that

are within the Federal jurisdiction and over

which NAPIER would have no jurisdiction or interest as a

local policeman. SHANLEY stated that NAPIER recently

met Mrs. CATHERINE TAFE of New York City at the Miami

International Airport, and they had a long conversation.

MrS: TAAFE gave NAPIER a lot of information, of which

he checked out all logical leads on it and probably

reported to Mrs. TAAFE:

On September 10, 1959, Mr. FRANK WATERSON,

State Department Security, Miami, advised that in the

case involving a C-74 airplane which was confiscated

on May 22, 1959, by U. S. Customs Agents and which

resulted in the arrest of the Dominican Consul in

Miami, AUGUSTO FERRANDO, someone mentioned NAPIER in

connection with some "payment"

Mr. WATERSON said that

possibly the Supervising Customs Agent, Miami, may have

some

information about this allegation.

Mr. WATERSON said that CARLOS FERNANDEZ,

Honorary Consul of Uruguay and a Miami City Judge,

had

previously made statements indicating that he did not

have any confidence in NAPIER and "sneered" when NAPIER'S

name was mentioned.

Mr. WATERSON said that there is a Miami attorney

named NORMAN HOFT, located in the Ainsley Building.

HOFT

represented ALONZO HIDAIGO, former Cuban Consul in

• Miami

who was involved in the riot on July 4, 1959.

HOFT

has some connections in Latin-American circles and has

indicated to WATERSON that NAPIER may be involved in

activities not within the

scope of his employment.

USCS

REVIEWED BY SEWJFK TASK FORCE

-3- REVIEWED BY FANUFA TASK FORDE

ON

7-23-97 dat

ON

10/8/97 na/daL

I RELEASE IN FULL

• DO RELEASE IN FULL

O RELEASE IN PART

RELEASE IN PART

O. TOTAL DENIAL

L

TOTAL DENIAL

NW 54460 DooId: 32330191

Page 3

---

