# docid-32292414

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10209-10190

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-940

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/30/1964

2

GAL, ASSOC, STRIP JOINTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32292414

401

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

D: 1R57. 4-17-631

AIRGRAM

DECODED

07 CABLEGRAM

COPY

• RADIO

XXXTELETYPE

Casper.

Galah ar

Conrad

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

3-16

PM COST DEFERRED 4-30-64 JLS

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO 301848

Antsucketecing

GUS A

EX, AKA, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

-CG 6413-0 ADVISED HE RECENTLY LEARNED THROUGH LOUISE /

FORNABENE THAT ALEX HAS BEEN COMPLAINING BITTERLY BECAUSE

"ÖF THE TERRIFIC "HEAT" ON THE STRIP JOINTS PARTICULARLY ON

"THE SOUTH SIDE OF CHICAGO. ALEX REPORTEDLY TOLD TORNABENE

THAT HE STANDS TO LOSE $120,000 PER YEAR AS RESULT OF THE

CLOSING DOWN OF THE'"STRIP JOINTS. TORNABENE EXPLAINED THAT

"THAT'S GUSIE'S END! TORNABENE EXPLAINED FURTHER THAT ALEX

AND HIS ASSOCIATES ARE AT A LOSS AS HOW TO CIRCUMVENT CLOSING

THE STRIP JOINTS AND SUBSEQUENT PUBLICITY. TORNABENE STATED

CROSSROADS RESTAURANT WAS GOOD FOR $45,000 NET PER MONTH

WHILE RUNNING WIDE OPEN AND ALTHOUGH TONY TORNABENE IS A

VERY CLOSE FRIEND OF CAPTAIN JAMES RIORDAN, FIRST DISTRICTE

HE COMPLAINED BITTERLY THAT THOUGH RIORDAN WAS PAID OFF HE;

HAS REMAINED UNSCATHED AS RESULT OF HEAT AND IS NOW: ONLY:

PERSON WHO REALLY MADE ANY MONEY OUT OF STRIP JOINTS IN PAST

SEVERAL MONTHS. TORNABENE STATED "WOULD'T YOU KNOW THE LOUSY

'COPS MÄDE ALL THE MONEY. "

AS A FURTHER END RESULT OF THE ABOVE MENTIONED CLOSINGS

IT HAS RECENTLY BEEN REPORTED THAT LOUIS ARGER, ALEX'S

LIEUTENANT, HAS SUFFERED A HEART ATTACK AND HAS BEEN HOSPITAL-

IZED: ALSO AS A RESULT OF INFO FURNISHED BY CG 6443-0

CONCERNING FHA VIOLATIONS ON PART OF LOUIS TORNABENE, STRIP

JOINT OPERATOR AND LIEUTENANT OF ALEX, IT IS ANTICIPATED FHA

MATTER TO BÉ PRESENTED TO FGU, CHICAGO, SOON WHICH SHOULD

•FURTHER HAMPER GUS ALEX IS GROUP.

REC ID

92=3182-940

8 MAY 5 1964

RECEIVED 1

4:32 PM MAH

I MAY IT 1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32292414 Page 2

---

