# docid-32316831

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY: FBI

• RECORD NUMBER: 124-10351-10138

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 72-2382-60

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

' PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/19/1976

5

JUDITH CAMPBELL EXNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NN 46019 DocId: 32316831 Page 1

11

---

## Page 2

NYO 714 23223537

FEDERAL BUREAU G

COMMUNICATIO

HON

(ON

PP HQ

AL BH BU CG DN IP LA MM SF TP

AUG 19 12-

DE NY

TELETYPE

/P- 19 2128Z AUG 76

/FM NEW YORK (72-286) P

72-2387

TO DIRECTOR (92-3287) ROUTINE

ALBANY ROUTINE

Assoc. Dir.

Dep.-A.D.-Adm.

Dep.-A.D.-Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

Adm. Serv.

Ext. Affairs

Fien 4081

Gen.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laborat iry

Liqui Coun.

Plan. & Eval -

Spec. Inv.'

Training

Telephone

Rm.

Director Sec'y

BIRMINGHAM ROUTINE

BUFFALO ROUTINE

CHICAGO ROUTINE

DENVER ROUTINE

INDIANAPOLIS ROUTINE

LOS ANGELES PRIORITY

MIAMI PRIORITY

SAN FRANCISCO ROUTINE

3LL

TAMPA (92-2135) ROUTINE

BT

CLEAR

ATTENTION GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

UNKNOWN SUBJECT JOHN ROSELLI - VICTIM, OOJ, 00: MIAMI

FOR INFORMATION OF RECEIVING OFFICES:

REG 12 22-2372-60

3 AUG 26 1976

EX-113

/r. AUG: : 1976158

NH 46019 DocId: 32316831 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO NY 72-286 CLE

R

ON AUGUST 18, 1976,

X, FORMER SOURCE OF THE

NYO WAS INTERVIEWED AND PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CON-

CERNING ROSELLI.

ADVISED THAT IN 1969 HE HAD BECOME ACQUAINTED WITH A

WOMAN WHO WENT BY THE NAMES OF X NANCY CZAR X. AND X NANCY KOWALSK I X.

ACCORDING TO

MISS CZAR WAS ALWAYS VERY TALKATIVE AND OFTEN

DISCUSSED HER RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHER PEOPLE. SHE OFTEN SPOKE

OF BEING CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH JOHN ROSELLI AND AL SMILEY IN

LOS ANGELES AND THAT SHE HAD VISUTED ROSELLI WHILE HE WAS IN

PRISON.

MAINTAINED CONTACI WITH CZAR AND IN 1972, WHILE

TRAVELLING TO CALIFORNIA WAS GIVEN THE USE OF NANCY CZARS® APART-

MENT LOCATED IN THE FOUNTAIN VIEW WEST TOWERS, 1155 NORTH LA

CIENAGA, BEL AIR, CALIFORNIA. WHILE STAYING THERE

OBSER-

• VED PICTURES ON THE WALLS WITH NANCY CZAR AND JOHN ROSELLI TO-

GETHER.

ADVISED THAI NANCY CZAR IS NOW MARRIED TO A BUSINESS-

MAN NAMED X SAM BRETSFIELD X AND NOW LIVES IN BEL AIR ESTATES, BEL

AIR, CALIFORNIA. THE HOME TELEPHONE NUMBER IS 213-476-2268.

BUSINESS PHONE 213-748-8701.

NN 46019 DocId: 32316831 Page 3

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

PAGE THREE NY 72-286 CLEAR

DESCRIBED CZAR AS BEING A "MOTOR MOUTH" AND THAT SHE

HAD BEEN IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH ROSELLI UNTIL VERY SHORTLY BE-

FORE HIS DEATH.

ALSO STATED THAI AI 4 PM ON JANUARY 26, 1976 HE HAD

MET WITH JOHN ROSELLI IN THE LIBRARY ROOM OF THE BEVERLY HILTON

HOTEL. AT THIS MEETING

WHO IS A LITERARY AGENI, APPROACH-

ED ROSELLI AND ASKED TO PURCHASE ROSELLI'S STORY ABOUT HIS IN-

VOLVEMENT WITH THE CIA, SAM GIANCANA AND THEIR ATTEMPTS TO

ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO. ROSELLI ALLEGEDLY TOLD|

THAT

HE WOULD THINK ABOUT HAVING THE STORY PUBLISHED. AT THIS POINT

ADVISED ROSELLI THAT EVEN IF HE DID NOT WISH TO PUBLISH

HIS STORY AND GET IT OUT IN THE OPEN HE SHOULD AT LEAST GET IT

DOWN ON PAPER WITH A LAWYER. AT THIS POINT ROSELLI ALLEGEDLY

STATED THAT HE HAD ALREADY PUT THE STORY DOWN IN PRINT "IN

TRIPLICATE"•

THIS MEETING HAD BEEN ARRANGED BY A WEST COAST LAWYER

NAMED X DON BUSBY X WHO WAS REPRESENTING

AND WAS PRESENT

AT THIS MEETING. BUSBY RESIDES AT X 450 NORTH ROCKSBURG DRIVE,

BEL AIR, CALIFORNIA X, HOME PHONE 213-278-2016, BUSINESS PHONE

213-273-8566.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

NN 46019 DocId: 32316831 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE FOUR NY 72-286 CLE A R

BELIEVES THAT BUSBY MAY KNOW WHETHER ROSELLI'S STORY

WAS IN FACI PUT DOWN ON PAPER BY ROSELLI, AND IF SO, WHERE

COPIES OF THE STORY MAY BE.

INDICATED THAT A POSSIBILITY EXISTS THAT ROSELLI'S

STORY MAY HAVE BEEN TURNED OVER TO ROSELLI'S LAWYERS.

INDICATED A KNOWLEDGE OF PAST INVESTIGATIONS OF

MATTERS CONCERNING X HOWARD HUGHES X, X ROBERT VESCO X,

AND X ROBERT A. MAHEU X WHICH COULD ALSO BE READILY AVAILABLE

IN THE NEWS MEDIA.

IT SHOULD BE NOTED BY LA THAT BUSBY IS AWARE THAT

HAS CONTACTED THE FBI IN REGARD TO THIS MATTER.

BASED ON INTERVIEW

APPEARED RATIONAL, HOWEVER, HIS

PRESENT RELIABILITY IS UNKNOWN AT THIS TIME.

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

ADMINISTRATIVE

REBUTELETYPE TO ALL SACS, AUGUST 13, 1976.

LOS ANGELES AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA. INTERVIEW MRS.

NANCY BRETSFIELD REGARDING HER RELATIONSHIP WITH JOHN ROSELLI

NW 46019 DocId: 32316831 Page 5

---

