# docid-32301252

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

6/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10278-10087

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 105-86025-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

BRACKEN, LAWRENCE H.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/09/1960

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS:

LCA, BKG, AFFIL, POLIT REFUGEE, REL, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

06/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301252

Page 1.

5

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Repart Form

FD-26593-12-955

• 20

FEDERAL BUREAY OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

NEW YORK

Office

of 0r1g1n

NEW YORK

Date /9/60

INWesg915955960

TITLE OF CASE

Report

made by

LAWRENCE H. BRACKEN

LUIS ERNESTO CONTE

AGUERO

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

The AN

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBA

DATE 10-8-94 BY_S

(JFK)

Synops1

REFERENCES

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE CY CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Typed By:

_ P -

ADMINISTRATIVE

AGUERO was interviewed in the New York Office on

5/23/60.

The interview lasted approximately three hours

and was

terminated because of prior committments by AGUERO.

As a result a complete interview was not conducted on

this occasion, Accordingly a lead is being set out with

this report to have AGUERO reinterviewed to obtain

additional information from him as

well as to develop him

further on the theory that at this time he exhibits a good

potential as a possible PSI.

Approved

Special

Agent

in Charge

Bure

(105-86025)

(1

(RM)

-V109-12-210)

(FPM-CUBA)

Miami (INFO) (RM)

5 - New York.

(105-40527)

(1 - 109712)

(FPM-CUBA)

o-1 to netce giani

(Fair Play for

D

Do not write

1n

spaces

below

145-86-025-9 RE-53

EX 109.

Cuba Committee) 25 JUN 10 1960

LE'AGENCY BAB, StAte, CHA, 62,0 NI, 031

'REQ. RES'D

DATE FORW

6-0

- 60

HOW FORW.

BY _

_VAN

R/S

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

DISSEMINATION.

Property of FBI

This

report is loaned to you by the FBI,

'alla retther li nor lis contents

51 JUN 27 19

are to be distributed

out s1

# U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFiCE: 1956

0-385319

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

DocId: 32301252

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John 'F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-40527

ADMINISTRATIVE CONT'D

On 5/3/60, JON SPELLER advised that he

Intended to take AGUERO to Washington, D.C., to meet

with General CUSHMAN, the Executive Assistant to Vice

President NIXON.

he said the principal purpose of the visit

to washington would be to attempt to expedite getting

AGUERO's family out of Cuba.

During the course of the interview of AGUERO,

this particular point was not gone into due to

fact that the interview had to be terminated.

the

One copies of this report are being furnished

to Miami for their information and possible future use.

INFORMANTS

Identity

of Source

NY I-1

Mrs. ADA FAIK

Miami, Florida

File Number

Where Located

Instant file

Serial 3

NY T-2

MARIANO FAGET

PSI-Miami

Instant file

Serial 3

NY T-3

GILL BARRERAS

PSI-Miami

Instant file

Serial 3

- B-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301252 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Redeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 105-40527

INFORMANTS CONT'D

Identity

File Number

of source

Where Located

NY T-4

Instant file

NY 2865-PSI

Serial 4

Careful consideration has been given to the

sources concealed and I symbols have been used only in

those instances where the identities of the informants

must be concealed.

LEADS

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

1. Will review AGUERO's file as contained in

INS, NYC.

2.

Will reinterview AGUERO for further

information he may have concerning Cuban matters.

3. Will consider interviewing GOAR MESTRE

who has knowledge of CONTE's radio activity in Cuba.

-

C*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32301252

Page 4

---

