# docid-32308494

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10294-10352

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1693-1ST NR 80

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

DOJ

FROM:

YEAGLEY, J. WALTER

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/15/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, GPH, REH, RM, ACA, ASSOC, IDENT, ARREST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC A/T

v9.1

HH 53074

10

DocId: 32308494

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

1 - Masca

8/31/63

Alrtel

To:

SAG, Miami (105-7313)

Prom: Director, FBI (105-118615)

BY CUBAN ARMED FORCES

INTENAL SECURITY - CURA

NOUTRALITY MATTERS

Mermairtel los am sulet to Assistant Attorney veneral

Yeagley 3/6/63, copies of which were furnisted to recipients.

Attached for each office

copy of self-oxplonatory

Depararent

lotter dated March 15,

1963.

mediatoly institute

regressed

limestigation.

Miant during

From availeble dato it appears

that

there are to such individuals

and that they returned to U. S. with Ray hargraves.

Bureou reslizes that only MA 639-S, Burcay Inforant in

this 10100T o

and three others have

knowledge of hargroves accouns

or she expedition.

Nevertheless,

interviews nith him as well as

wich kolando lasforer uno allegedly supplic noney and weapoi

would be desirable.

was connected with

"intercen

it is felt that members of Intorpen including Margraves.

Hotning

and othere

could be intervieed nithout fepardizing Bureau intorkant.

Unless sons reason exists to contrary, noubers ot interpen snout

Interviewed.

in view of the unsavory bocigroum of manners

of

be

Interpen be most ciremspect

during chose interviers. (n)

Enclosure

Men

York

(Enclosure)

1 - Son

Jmai

(Enclosure»

Charied by SOL BACC

- 2-1622

- 2-1693

(HasPerTe: DUPLICATE VELLON

(Interpent

VIN: pal:bjs

SES NOTE PAGE 1W0

(8)

53 MAR 2 8 1963

QUIGINAL FIED I

74 53074

DooId: 32308494

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Airtel to SAu,.

Mand

-Re:

CARTURE OF EIGHT COUN

BY CUBAN ARION PORCES,

105- 118615/

EVOLDMONARIES

KUAKy 24p 1900

Now tonk Offles

intervierod linsferrer on

minerous

occasions and he has alaitted supplying weapons to anti-lastro broups.

Broan feels that following your interviey of interpen mosters whe

might molicate astorer he shoule be interviewed by new lork attice.

intorvier of lasterres, folloing the intervies of Interpen naters,

would have tendency to throw suspicion asay fron your infomant as

source of one intornacion implicating hin and cast it on Interpen

members. " Folloving your

interviews of Interpen nombers, set out lead

to have new dors utrice interview Fasterres.

In submi coing the rosults of your

inquiries use now siuc

which will nolude nies of all of

the indiviouals involved in this

matter as subjeots, bogioming with hargraves.

handle expeliciously,

Monorandun Namall to Sullivan 3/5/63 advised that Cubans

captuted eight counterrevolutiomsies and had repossessed to fishing

vessets/nich this group had allegedly seized.

Intoration provided

by MA 639-S indicated that Margraves,

Americon soldier of fortune.

apparently len this group, deit them on ulbow say in the bahamas

nore he presumes they were captured by cubans.

Hargraves and two

others reportedly returned to Miami prior to the capture of the eini

counterrevolutionaries.

head of Interper

and soldier of fortung.

he is close to lioni Attorney representing the eight who were captured.

Facts so Depertment and Departnees has requested we

conduct investigation to deterine wether there vas a violation of

Title 18

U.

So

Code Section 960 (organizing expedition from U.

to violate chis section.

Since group originally left from

U.S. possibility of neutrality violation exists. (EM)

74 53074

DooId: 32308494

Page 3

---

