# docid-32324230

## Page 1

1 Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/3/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90025-10073

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 162-607-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/12/1973

3

ISADORE MAX MILLER

ISADORE MILLER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 12/29/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

DödId: 32324230

22

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE2671(Rcil 4229167)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF. INV_STIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

DALLAS

ISADORE MAX MILLER, aka

DATE

1/12/73

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN J. LANDERS

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/2/72 - 12/12/72

ITWI

TYPED

okh

"*7

REFERENCE:

Dallas report of SA JOHN J. LANDERS, dated

10/30/72.

-P-

LEADS

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEXAS. 1. Continue to obtain

and review subject's long distance telephone toll records U

2. Maintain contact with the Metro Unit,

Dallas PD, sources and informants re subject's gambling

activities.

CONVIC

AUTO.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

XXNONE

RECOVERIES

JACQUIT-

TALS

JES

SPECIAL AGENT

I - USA, Fort Worth,

2 - Dallas (165-372)

Texas

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR

EYES DNO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

EYES SINO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

162-607-45

RES/ 70

BO JIN 17 1973

3-105

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fird.

By

CC, AAG; Lriminal

Division,

Oreanized Crime

& Racketearing Section

Room.

05 JAt/19/1973

Notations

COVER PATE

GPO: 1971-440-529

DocId: 32324230 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017 , ..,

DI 165-372

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 11/27/72, DL 1251-PC advised SA F. VINCENT

CESARE that he bet with MILLER and MILLER has given him

Let/

calling 363-5166 and he settles up with MILLER on Tuesdays

at the Chateau Briand Restaurant on Mc Kinney.

Source

stated that at times he would just leave an envelope

or pick one up at the restaurant.

Source stated he called

MILLER on Saturday, November 25, 1972 and MILLER's wife

told him that MILLER had a heart attack and was in the

hospital.

DL 845-C-PE advised SA F. VINCENT CESARE On

12/4/72, that ISADORE MILLER heard

that the "heat" was

on.

This being a reference to law enforcement and had •

gone into the hospital on 11/25/72:

Source said MILLER

remained in the hospital and he believes that the

Source

stated that he does not know if MILLER is continuing

bookmaking from his room at the hospital.

Mrs. VIRGINIA ADAMS, Southwestern Bell Telephone

Company, advised on 12/12/72 that she had requested long

distance telephone tolls for the subject's residence phone,

but as of that date, these tolls were not available.

i...

B*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32324230

Page 3

---

