# docid-32310182

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10126

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 2-1423-138

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/25/1975

3

IID, TRA, BUSS, CUBANS, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/29/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32310182

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

Releaset

DATE:

Kenne

¿Lection

Note).

-14-20175

OPTIONAL FORM.NO.10-

MAY 432 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATE

Memon.

TO

Director,

FBI

RNMENI

lum

SECRET

FROM

1-11-95 DATE:

June 25, 1975V

ClassifieN S081AC KSR

Doclassity on:

-DADR

(SEK)

SUBJECT

Legat, Mexico City (64-new)

I.

IRVING

DAVIDSON

INFORMATION CONCERNING

FOREIGN MISCELLANEOUS

plane ce in

*Ca Cos

SSIFIE

INFOR

ALL

EXC

OTHET

On June 18, 1975, Mr.

1• IRVING DAVIDSON called

on Legat WACHTER in Mexico City, identifying himself as

being in the public relations field with offices at 1612

Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. He said that he knows

Assistant Director WANNALL and has plans

to confer with

Supervisor VINCE NASCA,

on his return to Washington, D.C.,

concerning the possibility of his developing business with

the Cubans if and when the United States resumes relations

with that country. DAVIDSON also said he is a close friend

of

former SAC IAN MAC CLENNAN and former Legal Attache

ROBERT T. NISCHWITZ.

5668-510

JKK)

CLASSIFIEO

DECLASSIFY

470

let

I-MEX

Mr. DAVIDSON said he represents an

American

company that

puts together sugar mill operations, and he is

interested in developing business with the Cubans.

He said

he is laying the groundwork for this business with the

assistance of AUSTIN HYDE SANCHEZ GAVITO, who is Director

of Marketing for Chemoleum International, Ltd., of Valley

Stream, New York.

He said this gentleman is the nephew of

VICENTE

SANCHEZ GAVITO, an old friend of his who is now

Mexican Ambassador to West Germany.

He said that VICENTE

is the controversial character who

has evidenced friendship.

with the CASTRO regime in Cuba, and he may find it advan-

tageous to use this friendship

to promote business relations

with Cuba if they ever should be recognized by the United

States.

He said

undoubtedly

man.

the FBI has a file on this

2

,-/4

Records of this officél containano information

tomation 138

identifiable with Mr. DAVIDSON; however, four files do show s

HA MAP -

Bureau

NOT RECORDED

21. JUL I. 1975

(1 - Foreign Liaison Unit)

43

3 - Mexico City

AUG 12 1975

(1 - 105-3815)

JJW: esc

(6) "

SECRET

5010-108-02

AUG 11 1975

nos Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plans

ENY?

DocId: 32310182 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under'the John F. Kennedy Assassination Retords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX

64-new

SECRET

Enat VICENTE SANCHEZ GAVITO was supject of Burile 105-108481.J5)

The above information

Falset out only for Bureau

records and possible assistance in the event Mr. DAVIDSON

should contact Bureau officials.

Since there is a possibility

he may recontact this office, it is requested the Bureau

furnish us with any pertinent information concerning his

background.

SECRET

ZECHEL

309-101550.

DocId: 32310182

Page 3

---

