# docid-32292526

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/28/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10302

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-33-383

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/04/1963

PAGES:

99

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, HORSE RACES, LIQUOR OPERATIONS,

NARCOTICS, CONFIDENCE GAMES, PROSTITUTION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2A

V9.1

HH 45760

DocId: 32292526

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

REVIEWED BY LUVUFK TASK FORGE

ON

7/23/98 dat

NO 92-346/mh

RELEAGE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

INFORMANTS:

TOTAL DENIAL

NO T-I is NO 1115-C, Bay St. Louis, Miss.

NO T-2 iS NO 1017-C, Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-T is HARRY JORDAN, Gambler and bookmaker at

Gulfport,

MiSS

NO T-10 is NO 1178-C, Gulfport, Mississippi.

NO I-il is JOHN E. MONTGOMERY, Special Agent,

IRS, Intelligence Unit, Gulfport, Miss.

Provost Marshal 2 A ESLU TA, noor, ment officer,

NO T-15 IS NO 1190-C; Gulfport; Mississippi.

NO I-16 is C. E. VANN, Former Chief of Detectives,

Harrison County SO, and now a private investigator, Miss.

Gulf Coast.

NO I.20, is Mrs.

^ ELIZABETH WARREN, Long Beach,

Miss , ex-wife of

snoOKs WArrEn, Jackson, Miss.

NO T-22, 1S JAMES OTHO SLAYDON, Picayune, Miss.

NO T-23 is NO 1139-C, Picayune, Miss.

NO I-25 is GEORGE CLAIBORNE PAYNE, Detective,

Gulfport,

Miss. PD.

NO T-31 is NO 983-C, Natchez, Miss:

attributed

to him herein on a confidential basis, after

advising he was leaving the so to attend recruit

school

for

the position of Patrolman, MHSP.

B

-383

COVER

PAGE

NW 45760 DooId: 32292526

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-346/mh

NO: T=38

is Patrolman T. P. NAYLOR, MHSP,

Gulfport, Miss, a graduate of the U.S. Bureau of

Narcotics School for Police Officers, Washington, D. C.

NO T-41, isNO 1187-C, Gulfport, Miss.

NO T-54 is PCI|

Natchez, Miss.

NO T-56 is NO 1056-C, Hattiesburg, Miss.

NO T 57

is WINDU AUTRY, Columbia, Miss.

NO T-62 is Deputy Sheriff W. E. MOODY, Picayune,

Miss, who has requested

that his identity not be divulged.

NO T-63 is Sgt. JASPER I. ANGLIN, PD, Bogalusa,

La., who requested his identity not be divulged.

NO T-64 is Hon. FRANCIS HURSEY, Mayor, City of

Pass Christian, Miss.

NO T-65 is Hon STANFORD E. MORSE, JR., attorney

and Miss state senator for Harrison and Stone County.

NO T-66 is Chief of Detectives PAUL HALE, PD,

Gulfport, Miss®

NO T-67 is FREDERICK C. WOODS, Architect, F. C.

Woods & Association, 2102 Government Street, Mobile,

Ala., who requested his identity be kept confidential.

NO T-68 is

PCI, Meridian, Miss.

NO T-69 is NO 1102-C, Meridian, Miss.

NO T-70 is J. C. OLIVER, Adjustor, General

Adjustment Bureau, Laurel, Miss.

NO T-71 IS CHARLIE WEBB, Employee, Esso Service

Station,

Laurel, Miss.

JEK Act 6 (4)'

COVER PAGE

NW 45760 DooId: 32292526

Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-346/mh

NO T-72 IS KENT SHOEMAKE, Former Deputy

Sheriff, Jones County, Laurely MISS.

NO I-73 is LEONARD CAVES, Clerk, Jones

County Circuit Court, Laurel, Miss.

NO I-74 is Sgt. H. J. LADNER, Harrison County

so.

JEK Act 6 (4)

NO T-75 1s ABBOTT MOORE, Cashiers Office, IRS,

301 Lamar Bldg, Jackson, Miss.

NO T-76 is

PCI, Jackson, Miss.

NO T-77 IS NO 1091-C, Vicksburg, Miss.

NO T-78, HENRY J. RUSHING,.

Resident Manager,

Gulf Hills, Dude Ranch, Ocean Springs, Miss.

NO T-79 is

PCI, Columbia, Miss.

NO T-80 is

PCI, Columbia, Miss.

NO T-81 is

D

COVER PAGE

74 45760

DocTA: 32292526

Page 4

---

