# docid-32339788

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/30/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90152-10007

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-231511-45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI.

FROM: CO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/16/1973

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ANTONIO VECIANA

PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32339788

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USE

2107 hgte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIUNAL_FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

55A EPMR (41 CAR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

(18e) Madis

copy to (icc)

by routing slip

I into

I act

date S72513

TO

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (105-231511)

DATE:

5/16/73

FROM

: SAC, COLUMBIA (105-460) (P)

SUBJECT:

PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO

(REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE)

IS - CUBA

Recsmade for SSC-I revier

-B/A@perregust 46013136

2/3/77

JS6/AFB

by routing stip fas

placecion 105-141949 (Anct)

::05516868868 meno

521-94 5p8 MAC /VSK

"/26/84 SP6BJA/GCL *211326

Re Miami Letter and LAMAid May MaRION CONTAINED

letter and LHM.

Enclosed for rampa is optERE goby ofeliAReedD

DAlL&- 29-83 BY

On 5/2/73, CO 1020-PSI

from Orlando, Fla.,

where he had been on personal business

# 911376

O 10z0-PSI stated that while in the Orlando

Fla., area, he

traveled to Miami, Fla., to contact TONEySANTIAGO, SecretarY

3

of the People's Revolutionary Party

(PAPI, and ORLANDO BOSCH.

FRED

PSI stated he met with TONY SANTIAGO in Miami, Fla.,

on 4/20/73.

PSI advised that SANTIAGO claims the party has a

number of sources providing current information regarding the

situation in Cuba,

including a source in the Cuban Army.

SANTIAGO told CO 1020-PSI that he, SANTIAGO, was receiving

information from these sources on

an almost daily basis, and:

that he needed help to process and report this information.

SANTIAGO told CO 1020-PSI it has been learned that

che Russians have trained 1,500 members of the Cuban Army at

the Russian academy

"La Fronze," and that these individuals

today supervise the Cuban Army.

SANTIAGO also related that

it has been learned that the Cuban Army has an underground

garage for the storage of tanks, planes, trucks, and missiles,

but offered no specifics:

PSI advised that SANTIAGO did not name the source or

sources of this information, and PSI stated he had no way of

10: 05-2315-45p 1

knowing whether any credence could be attached to the infor-

- Bureau (RM)

REC-82

- Miami (105-20913) (RM) (Info.)

105-331511-

Tampa (Enc. 2)

(RM) (Info.)

San Juan (105-14608)- (RM)

(Info.)

2

- Columbia

(1 - 105-460)

(1 - 134-143SF1)

XERAY

MAY 181973

TWAS SAY 2 5 1973

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32339788

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DATE: I1-14-2017

USC 210) Note).

CO 105-460

PSI stated that upon his arrival in Miami, Fla.,

he contacted JORGE GUTIERREZ, teLephone 446-6489,

to arrange

a meeting with ORLANDOXBOSCH:

He advised that on

4/22/73,

ORLANDO BOSCH met with him at the Chateaubleau Inn, Coral

Gables, Fla., where PSI was staying.

PSI stated BOSCH

expressed a dissatisfaction with the PRP.

BOSCH told the

PSI that all the PRP ever does is hold meetings, that the

PRP spends too much money traveling and talking

instead of

fighting.

BOSCH told CO 1020-PSI the PRP might split because

of a difference of opinion among its leaders. BOSCH told

co 1020-Psd that he would like to form his own party, stating

he knew of more than 1,000 individuals who would follow him,

On 5/10/73, CO 1020-PSI advised that he talked at

of/ Replica

and ANTONIO

VECIANA have resigned from PRP.

PSI

stated that according to ROMERO, VECIANA resigned because he

did not have enough time to devote to the PRP, and NUNEZ

resigned because he was "sick." PSI said that from ROMERO'S

comments, he concluded that there was some animosity between

ROMERO and NUNEZ, and that ROMERO was happy to see NUNEZ out

of the party.

ROMERO told PSI he had been in contact with (FNU)...

MONTANER, Spat Who provides ROMERO and the PRP with up-to-

date information regarding Cuba.

PSI said (FNU) MONTANER iS/

reportedly in contact with a number of individuals who are

traveling between Cuba and Spain, and passes on to the PRP

the information he learns through these contacts.

The above

information is being furnished for the

information of receiving Offices.

No attempt is being made to

disseminate this information in view of its general nature

and fact information learned by PSI through private conver-

sations with individuals involved.

105-231511-45p.2

-2

DocId: 32339788 Page 3

---

