# docid-32305778

## Page 1

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/5/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

• AGENCY: FBI.

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10408

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

65-76238-17X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:, FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 08/29/1977

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS:

MR, ASSOC, TRA, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305778

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoMtection Not of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

6, DATE: 11-14-2017

z.

SECRET:

17A

APAGE TWO SU 65-516 SECRET

AT SAN JUAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (SUIA), REVEALED THAT

SUBJECT

DID NOT IN FACT DEPLANE ANY FLIGHTS ON THE AFTERNOON OF AUGUST 27,

1977• DON ZABALA DEPLANED EARLY IN THE EVENING AT SJIA AND DROVE

OFF IN HIS CAR. FURTHER INVESTIGATION BY MIAMI REVEALED THAT

SUBJECI FFLEW TO ORLANDO ON EASTERN AIR LINES (EAL), FLIGHI LEAVING

9:15 A.Mo, AUGUST 28, 1977.

INFORMATION HAS BEEN RECEIVED FROM A VERY SENSITIVE SOURCE

OF THE SAN JUAN OFFICE

THAT SUBJECT MAY BE IN CONTACT WITH

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE (CUIS).

INFORMATION FROM IMMIGRATION (S

AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (INS), SAN JUAN, INDICATES THAT SUBJECT

MAY BE TRAVELING TO THE BAHAMAS ON APPROXIMATELY AUGUST 29, 1977,

FOR SEVERAL DAYS.

TAMPA IS REQUESTED TO DISCREETLY DETERMINE IF SUBJECT MADE

ANY RESERVATIONS OR TOOK ANY FLIGHTS FROM ORLANDO, ESPECIALLY CON-

CENTRATING ON THE BAHAMAS, DURING THE PERIOD AUGUST 28, 1977, THROUGH

AUGUST 31, 1977. IF POSSIBLE, DETERMINE IF AND WHERE HE MAY HAVE

STAYED OVERNIGHT. FORWARD RESULTS TO SAN JUAN AND MIAMI.

CLASSIFIED BY 2072, XGDS 2, INDEFINITE.

DUS

BT

REVIEWED BY ENJFK TASK FORCE

1: 9/4/9nclđ

I:LEASE IN FULL

EJ SCLEASE IN PART

• EJ TOTAL DENIAL

SECRET!

DocId: 32305778

Page 2

---

