# docid-32286445

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identificatión Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10195-10221

HQ

92-3171-2118

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MX

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/31/1967

'PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

SGI

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LAB RPT, LAB WORK SHEETS, 2 ENV, HDW EVID

v9.1

DocId: 32286445

110

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kengedy AssasSination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC

DATE 111-54-2017

Hote).

Transmite rowing aReel

Date:*

10/31/67

ABRK

SIE

SIL

CLAS

ACT

ERSE

iR

ICATION®

Via

411. T

J

LAD"

SE

(Type in plaint

DESTITED BY BYL2SO

- TALL WONSSIFICAIIO

,1328

10:

From:

Dinector, FBI (92-3171)

Legat, Mexico (92-13 (P)

XES

зіб

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka.

11581

CIASS.

EXT BY 1289

547937:

ENCLOSURES

REASON

CTM

-2.4.

DATE OT

LOVIE

0e31

1..

herewith are

OF ERNIE J. CONTANO EX CHARLES H RICHARD CATA

two slips containines

signatures

Reep of SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, 9/27/67, at Chicago L

Enclosures were received by mail 10/23/67 from

former

I ERNESTO ABREU GOMEZ, Chief of

Section

Dof the lucatan Judicial Policex

de

tification

He advised that he had developed the flowing

information concerning RICHARD CAIN and the subject.

As

previously reported he was formerly acquainted with CAIN

when CAIN was giving instruction in lie detectors in Mexi

in years passed.

CAIN appeared in Merida accompanied by

an older individual whom

ABREU

identified as the subject

through his photographs.

He advised that these

individuals arrived in

ECOPY

¿ Mexico City.

They departed for Mexico City 9/15/66 on

Flight 620

of Mexicana.

They stayed at the Hotel Merida

where they registered as

CHARLES H. RICHARD and ERNIE J.

LMONTANO.

They

utilized

these same names on the flight

manifests.

NOLUSURE ATTACHED

Bureau

(Enc.

elease 190-0

(1 - Liaison

(2 - Chicago,

2)ENO

Section

92-340)

-92: 3491-3118

2

156 14

-Mexico City

(14

134-428A)}

RSC: imt

(8)

NOV

INDEFINITE

70 10 9/2928

4967

ed:

DATE O

Special Agent in Charge

_M

Per

CrOn

12 to l here

DocId: 32286445

Page 2

JITS DUTI

NO

ACY SHOTIO

ov auvIacoddaw

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hôte):

DATE: • 11-14-2017•

i4x?

MEX 92-13

ECRET

source obtained cor

e:

of the signatures from the

hotel guest register.sa

Daily contact has been maintained with Attorney

JORGE VAZQUEZ ROBLES, Chief of the Inspection Service of

the

Mexican Immigration, and there have been no further developments

concerning subject's reported presence in Cuernavaca.

have established contact with the manager of the Cuernavaca

Golf Club and are apparently hopeful that through this source

they will be able to locate the subject away from his

residence.

sent to Cuernavaca to investigate this matter, however this

has not been done to date because the inspectors who have

previously worked

on this matter are out of town on another

matter

Bureau and Chicago will be kept advised of developments

REQUEST OF THE BUREAU LABORATORY

It is requested that attempts be made to effect

comparison between enclosed signatures and the known hand-

writing of the subject and RICHARD S. CAIN, BuFile 105-93265

105-93264

(*u)

-

-

194-3999

one. ?!

DocId: 32286445

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 05C 210

Toter.

DATE: 11-14-2017

DEOtAS

011/1013

CLAPORED

BIN ENOLOSED

190-4419-35

59 IN

PICATI

DATE VI DECLA

12-3111-2118

DocId: 32286445

Page

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F: Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONEMENT INFORMATION SHEST (JFK MATERIALS)

Page(s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One or more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these deletions).

[]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6 of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[] subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

[]

subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations)

[]

Subsection

(living person who provided

confidential information),

[] subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

I Subsection i

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protectioni

[]

subsection

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilizedi

[] Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JEK

Assassination investigation.

For your information: foreign

KI

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding this page (these pages) :

92-3171-2118 Enclosure

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

=

DocId: 32286445 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C

DATE: 11-14-2017

Note).

1TLD La F--

ENCLOSURES (2)

TWO SLIPS CONTAINING

¡ SIGNATURES OF ERNIE J.

MONTANO & CHARLES

RICHARD

BUFILE 92-3171

MEX 92-13

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka.

ALL INTORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN I

MGLASSIFIED

EXCEPTIA

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Dediaylly on: GABR

87-0644

92-3171-2118

, CONTEE

DocId: 32286445

Page 6

---

## Page 7

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SALIDA

OF DEPARLURE

D-547937

AX

LABOLIAT

¡RY

Qoll

PARTURE

it 1110

D-547937

Qc12

LABORA

ORY

DocId: 32286445

Page 7

---

