# docid-32272229

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3/28/201

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10425

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

29-23B-03

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

5

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NW 53080 Date:

06-05-2017

ALVARADO, GILBERTO

OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, TRAVEL, TRIP TO

MEXICO

CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

NOTES

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/17/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 21

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32272229

Page 1

---

## Page 2

bichant-l

Letters to Parkin Show Chaye

2-2104 - cl was quent acces

this 212 ence Duces teleame

from Mans to Secretar

Nefico 1180 123ulas border pait

a rector as ect nigate

And para.

I The to

developia hue join to garlie that.

Melican Case also lenty awe of this

5 de para Vang CAS chancelo for

Channelo

I cabls were sent fine tids on inter? What about thing?

investigation de vent to helo.

NH 53080 DocId: 32272229

Page 2

---

## Page 3

State

rexpone to 1182-Xoores feele

10 182

→ Livor sentence Zores 1/82 discussed cito

your recommendation. O

State 4' Harmle a She a

9-d0

State 969 11-27

Abel sending Agent to Mifica Gif

-undesotand that puither asses

and exerogations,

Ethe Mesicans

al this time desins recommend, an

unheart by Mericans.

74 53080

no objection to interrogations lu

DodId: 32272229

---

## Page 4

Meficans

Mexico 120/

November 28

- Manno feeligo alroi

Lowald thod de would on

hor money.

and para - Covald andada

(masian inmigrant ara la verte

tevo intercepto af the

Dosticos-Hernandes Cimas phone conses,

cancera credes Mejicans questioned

Susan aboux money.

Abracado -double

agest Cula and Nicaraquas) stor

is withan pault bogot a canoulate

HH 53080 DocId: 32272229

---

## Page 5

8. Cowald went to Cuban consulati

You address of the hotel de says is

pear a the telegram deals with

State 276 B Movember a8 Mejico

PBel v sex concur your secommercialia.

to sexo in Merido Ci

Tovemberco

10x para Alvaredo changed stor

astro.

2nd para

Must ascept this new

36d para Mupican wish no further

restigation vendo 10/ sugacizene

text a message - still unplaned

circumatances fand he would apprecia

attinestigation in that theyare

WH 53080 Docid: 32272229 Page

---

## Page 6

contique thur magnest

1==7

TitL

iL

Suits

received 28

interrogation - messey

alvaredo 2g arto

As Office o

Arred of swan becaus opalleged

ans to leave for savanna

Jugalal arrest of Azaul Canad

abbleron and Alredo Mirabal

November 27

uggations of Mann Cell station chie,

carrest of tran

HH

---

