# docid-32331045

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/26/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90095-10008

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 100-357357-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SF

TO: HQ-

TITLE:

DATE: 04/25/1949

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LEONID PETER BENTHEN

PETER PAUL GREGORY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : . MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32331045

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

APPROPRIAET ADANCIES

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

Director, FBI

SAC, San Francisco

SINP(a)

LEONID PETER BENTHEN DATE

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

(Bufile 100-357357)

ss

DATE:

April 25, 1949

ATE I FIRECTOR CONTAINED

FEROTE

UNCLASSITIBD EXCEPT

Ciassiltad by

Exterp: tro-reli

59

p083118

Reurlet dated March 23, 1949. (ALSR was interviewed

Agents of this

office on April 11, 1949 in regard to his knowledge of BENTHEN's background and

present activities.

At the beginning of the interview ALSR pointed out that he was not very

well acquainted with BENTHEN while they both resided in Japan and that they never

met socially.

reClassified by St& Marine

ALSRJadvised that BENTHEN served as a 2nd It. in the artinery divistor

after the revolution, in 1919 or 1920.

pointed out that all officers serving under SEMENOV were selected for their ability

and character. In 1920 or 1921 BENTHEN left Russia for Shanghai, China and shortly

thereafter entered the jewelry

business.

While in Shanghai BENTHEN married

ALEXANDRA PETROVNA, GRIGORIELE

sister of MIKHAIL PETROVICH GRIGORIEFF who was

connected with the North Sakhalin Oil Company, a subsidiary of the Mitsubishi

interests and a sister Company of the North Sakhalin Coal Company where ALSR was (S

employed.

Both ALEXANDRA and MIKHAIL GRIGORIEFF were White Russians and considerea

BENTHEN to be one.

BENTHEN lef

Shanghai in 1922 or 1923 for Yokohama, Japan, arriving

there in a very poor financial condition. His dealings in precious stones gave

him an opportunity to open a small jewelry store in Yokohama. BENTHEN, during

his stay in lokohama, became a frequent visitor to his brother-in-law's,

MIKHAIL PETROVICH GRIGORIEFF's, office in Tokio. ALSR was introduced to BENTHENLS -

by M.P. GRIGORIEFF during one of BENTHEN's visits to GRIGORIEFF'S offige. LALSR

occasions at GRIGORIEFF's home.

store, nor did BaNthEN ever visit

de, ALSR, never

Thome.

Tale raist at he none or 57

There were two persons whom ALSE was able to/recall as being friendly

with BENTHEN during his residence in

Japan, DOMBROVA YANUSHEVSKY, who was

employed by the same Company as M. P. GRIGORIEFF and one NIKOLSKY (ph).

DOMBROVA YANUSHEVSKY was a former Tsarist infantry officer who up to 1937 was a

White Russian. Having been born in Bessarabia, which at that time was under

Rumanian domination, YANUSHEVSKY decided to accept Rumanian citizenship in 1937.

EAB/1cm

COMAN DESISLED

RECORDEL

100-28402

09-357357

Cc: 65-4032165 JAN 14 1953

INDEXED

60 MAY 6-1949

EX-138,

APR 29 1942

13/2/98 Mis

C

SIFIED BY

5668-540/GUL

ASSIFY ON: 25X @(

DocId: 32331045

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ndte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI

April 25, 1949

In 1945 TANUSHEVSKY accepted Soviet citizenship - "for reasons of protection".

NIKOLSKY formerly lived in Kobe, Japan but moved to Kyoto, Japan after

World War 11. NIKOLSKY originally came from the Ural section of Russia and

arrived in Japan in 1920. YAccording to ALSR

NIKOLSKY is stateless at the CS.

present time and is in the Jewelry business.

Ash. further advised that BENTHEN has a younger brother in Shanghai

whom he, BENTHEN, is trying to bring to the U.S. ( ALSR never met this brother CS_

no information regarding him except the fact that BENTHEN is quite

concerned that his brother might be sent to the Island of Samar with the other

Russian emigrants from Shanghai.

BENTHEN left Yokohama

for the U.S. in 1937 arriving at the port of San

Francisco, California. The jewelry and watches which he brought with him gave

his arrival, which business he has followed ever since.

we are union tone be his ottoned eter sides co ahore arter

(SALSR remembered corresponding with BENTHEN on few occasions in connection

with his efforts to obtain an affidavit for himself and his family to enable them

to enter the U.S.

BENTHEN was unable to send ALSR the necessary affidavits

explaining that he had to send one to his brother in Shanghai and as a result he

was not able to famish say for Ask se

In reply as to whether ALJR ever met BENTHEN, (ALSR advised that ALJR met - S-

him a few times in Tokio and saw BENTHEN twice inf San

Francisco. ALSR explained (S

that BENTHEN is a very thoughtful man and a good samaritan naving offered to

help AIR financially upon ALJR's arrival in San Francisco two years ago. CS.

to any of the jobs BENTHEN was able to secure for him. According to SF-1664 this

person is one NIKOLAI KOROBOV who recently arrived from the Orient with his 16

year old daughter.

arrived in San Francisco. ALSR stated that he, ALSR, occasionally drops in toLS

risit BENTHEN at his store but has visited BENTHEN'S home on one occasion whe

BENTHEN invited him to dinner to meet his brother-in-law who came to San (S

of the University of California and was attending an Engineering Convention in

San Francisco at the time ALSR

met him.

(5)

In regard to BENTHEN's political views (ALSR stated that he believes

BENTHEN to be neither pro nor anti-Soviet. He explained that he has never

heard BENTHEN criticize the Soviet regime nor has he ever heard him praise it. i

-

2 -

DocId: 32331045 Page 3

---

