# docid-32292568

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10344

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1185, 1186

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/05/1967

8

GAL, LEADER, OC, TRA, BANNED, SWITZERLAND, ASSOC,

POLITICAL, HOODLUM

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO, A/T

9.1

DocId: 32292568

Page 1'

450

---

## Page 2

Released under the Johni

F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

REC 99

1/1.

Airtel

3182-1186

5/11/67

To:

From:

GUS ALEX

AR

SAC, Chicago

Director, FBI

a Kelly

6-38-617

Re your airtel 5/5/67.

Consideration has been given to contacting U.S.

Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen for the purpose of furnishing

him background information on the subject and it has been

concluded that it would not appear advisable for the Bureau to

inject itself into this situation which relates to an internal

matter of the Senator's office.

Therefore, no contact is to

be made in this connection.

Inasmuch as full information has previously been

furnished to Legat, Bern,

relative to Alex, it is not felt

desirable to supply him with the identity of law enforcement

personnel in the Chicago area who may be familiar with Alex's

background for referral to Swiss authorities.

ison

Loach

ck

Isper

Gulatian

onrad

elt

tale

Rosen

sullivan

Tavel

•Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes .

"Gandy

NOTE: Alex was banned as undesirable by the Swiss Government

in 1965 and In connection with his efforts to have the ban

lifted, a letter was received by Swiss authorities from the

office

of Senator Dirksen of Illinois. Chicago learned from

an informant that the letter might have been prepared without

the Senator's

knowledge and recommended in view of this

that contact be made with Senator Dirksen and he be advised

of Alex's background.

office inasmuch as there is no substantial evidence the letter con-

cerning Alex was more than a routine communication such as

customarily prepared in a Senator's office by his administrative

staff.

Chicago also furnished the names of several law

(CONTINUED PAGE 2)

MAILLOT

JGL:tjm

(41)

MAY 1 1 1967

COMM FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32292568

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

Airtel to Chicago

Re:

Gus Alex

NOTE CONTINUED:

enforcement officials in the Chicago area to be furnished to

Swiss authorities who have indicated that the ban against

Alex may be lifted because of alleged insufficient derogatory

information. Full information on Alex's background has

already been previously furnished to Legat and, therefore,

it is not deemed appropriate to provide him with identities

of persons in Chicago familiar with Alex's background in

order that this can be

turned over to Swiss authorities.

• same

See memo J. H. Gale to Mr. DeLoach, dated 5/9/67,

caption, JGL:tjm.

- 2 .

DocId: 32292568

Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John'F." Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

ONTiONAL FORENO. 10

5010-106

• MAY 199? EDIFION

134, GEN.

RES. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

ERNMENT

Memorandum

Tolson -

DeLoach -

Mohr -

Wick

Casper -

TO

Mr. ReLoaD

DATE: May 9, 1967

FROM

J. H. Gale

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter —

Tele. Room

Holmes -

SUBJECT:

GUS ALEX

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Chico.

quet

Alex is a notorious member of the Chicago

underworld who has been closely associated with Sam

Giancana and other top ranking members of the Chicago

criminal organization. In the past, he has made

annual winter vacation trips with his paramour,

'Suzanne Fueger, to Europe with visits on each occasion

to Switzerland.

In 1965 the Swiss Government issued an order

banning him from the country for a period of ten years

based on his background and reputation as a notorious

racketeering figure.

Alex engaged legal counsel and

made a strenuous effort to have the ban lifted

Swiss official indicated in March, 1967, that there

was insufficient evidentiary material on which to con-

tinue the ban against Alex.

A representative of the Swiss Government has

advised our Legal Attache at Bern that in connection

with Alex's efforts to have the exclusion order lifted,

several letters were sent to the Swiss Government, one

being from United States Senator Everett McKinley

Dirksen in July, 1966. Dirksen's letter reportedly

requested the Swiss to advise Alex as to the basis of

his exclusion and also that the Swiss Government

reconsider its decision.

The Chicago Office has suggested, that in

connection with this situation, consideration be given

to contacting Senator Dirksen and advising him of the

unBan Data 420 - 3/202

1 - Mr. DeLoach!

REC 199

Mr on Wick

Mr • Gale

A MAY 12 1967

I-M MANdER I CONTINUED - OVER

airteet: 295-1167

DocId: 32292568

Page 4

---

## Page 5

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Memorandum to Mr. DeLoach

Re: Gus Alex

Chicago has received information concerning this

matter from a confidential informant, CG 6283-C, who claims

to have determined that no copy of the letter to the Swiss

Government is contained either in the Chicago office or the

Washington, D. C., office of the Senator.

The informant

believes this indicates the letter in question was sent

without the knowledge of Senator Dirksen. Although the

responsibility for the letter is not clear, Chicago advises

that the administrative assistant of Dirksen is one Harold

Rainville, who reportedlyhas the reputation of being a

political

opportunista with political ambitions.

RECOMMENDATION:

Although the information received from Chicago

informant raises some question as to

whether the Alex

letter was prepared with the Senator's knowledge, this

fact is not clear. There is no proof this was more than

a routine communication of the type which might be customarily

handled by administrative assistants or others in a Senator's

In view of this, it does not appear advisable for

the Bureau to inject itself into this situation involving a

matter of administration within Senator Dirksen's office and,

therefore, it is recommended that no contact be made with

the Senator in connection with this matter.

- 2 .

DocId: 32292568

Page

---

## Page 6

" Released Wider the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE

PD-36 7. 5-22-6411

5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

5/5/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3182)

FROM:

SAC, CHICAGO (92-373)

GUS ALEX, AKA.

AR

00: CHICAGO

dex

N'REG 99

Re CG teletype 4/4/67.

As the Bureau is aware, GUS ALEX, a prominent

leader of organized crime Chicago, has been banned from

Switzerland in 1965 for a period of 10 years based primarily

on information disseminated by the FBI.

Chicago sources have

reported that GUS ALEX is making every effort to remove

exclusion order against him and is calling upon many

of his political and hoodlum associates to intervene on his

behalf.

As the Bureau is also aware, the Legat in Bern

has advised that letters were sent to

the Swiss Government

requesting the Swiss Government to reconsider its decision

in this matter.

The Swiss Government has indicated that

unless additional derogatory information is received as a

basis to retain the entry ban against ALEX, they will have no

alternative but to allow ALEX re-entry.

- Bureau (AM)

- Chicago

REC 99

92-9182-1185

VLI/plb

Nick

D.O

5_9-67,992. tri

Sent

Per

sAY 1 81 Special Agent in

DocId: 32292568 Page 6

---

## Page 7

'Released under the John'f. Kennedy Assássination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Möte) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

CG 92-373

4.

ROSWELL T. SPENCER

Chief Investigator

Better Government Association

343 South Dearborn

Chicago, Illinois 60605

For further information of the Bureau, Chicago

have generally become aware of ALEX's continuing

efforts to lift the Swiss exclusion order against him.

During the course of a contact with CG 6283-C on other

matters by SA VINCENT L. INSERRA, informant volunteered

the information that it had become common knowledge in

political and hoodlum circles that ALEX is trying desperately

that CG 6283-C is closely associated with First Ward

Democratic politicians who are under the complete domination

of Chicago hoodlums, including GUS ALEX. Informant, in a

completely unsolicited manner, volunteered the information

that he had discreetly determined that no copy of the letter

to the Swiss Government in which Senator DIRKSEN reportedly

intervened on behalf of ALEX, is contained either in the

Chicago Office or the Washington, D.C. office of Senator

DIRKSEN.

Source advised that this indicates that the

letter in question was apparently sent without the knowledge

of Senator DIRKSEN. The Chicago Office recognizes that one

HAROLD RAINVILLE is the Administrative Assistant of DIRKSEN

and although no information is available that RAINVILLE

is corrupt, it is generally known that he has a reputation

of being a political opportunist with political ambitions of

his own.

The Chicago Division is fearful that DIRKSEN's

name may well be included in a list of letter writers and could

unjustifiably embarrass Senator DIRKSEN who has a reputation

Senator DIRKi

for integrity. The Chicago Division feels that it would be

most advisable to save Senator DIRKSEN from embarrassment in

that consideration be given to contacting DIRKSEN so that he

may be made aware of the fact that his name was used in such

manner.

This is merely being submitted as our observations

-3 -

DocId: 32292568 Page 7

---

