# docid-32340953

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10221-10346

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-1423-29

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

03/11/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

IID, ASSOC, B/F INT, PUBLIC RELATIONS, TEAMSTERS

UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32340953

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

-Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

Of 1a92d155

PATEiRe! 17453817

107 Hote).

F

Date: 3/11/59

Transmit the following in

CONCID

Limited Classificatlon

(Type in plain te

ATIL

NIT

Mr. Roseat

Mr. Tamm

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Holloman

Miss Gandy-

Via

AIRTEL

Review Conducted

See Top Serial

(Priority or Method of Mgilin

SIm 4-774

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (2÷1423)

FROM:

SAC, WFO (105-26269)?

SP8m

IRVING DAVIDSON

1/21/10

Reg treads Det

Classified ly

Declassify enf

ONOR

, 210, 12 ма

The following information

furnishea

by/wr

568-5*

set forth below for the information of the

Bureau as

1.7.

it is felt that it should not be disseminated.

On 3/11/59, Wr 568-S*

Tearned that IRVING

DAVIDSON, who was then at the

Embassy of Israel wDC, 4

had

in contact with TOM WEBB (ph), possibly identical

tosformer SA.

A THOMAS

SPYWEBB, IR., on that date.

DAVIDSON

and WEBB engaged in a' very

vague and criptic conversati

concerning an apparent business deal involving an indivi

dual identified only

as CLINT;

who is possibly identical

to CLINT MURCHISON

of the Tecon Corporation, Dallas,.

Texas,

for whom DAVIDSON had handled public relations in -

-connection with

the construction of the Avila Tunnel in

Caracas, Venezula, in the past.

DAVIDSON indicated that

CLINT was "scared

death"

WEBB indicated that an

individual identified only as BOB, had called him and

DAVIDSON indicated that he had

asked BOBO to call WEBB.

3668

DAVIDSON stated "they had it for five", but DAVIDSON

"dropped it to four", and indicated that "it was really

thrèe" because it would include the previous year.

DAVIDSON

Cadded that after

3 years,

there would be additional pay-

ments.

DAVIDSON indicated that the persons with whom he

had dealt talked about a "five year deal"

but that it was

really only three because the "first one"

'started next

week.

DAVIDSON indi

cated

he would give. JubB the fur details

in private later.

REC-44

Bureau

(1-105-10828) (EMBASSY OF ISRAEL)EO APR 1 1955

(1-105-5244) (EMBASSY OF ISRAEL We Directorsnotation

I 6 • JCC: vsh

5

Wick

CENACEADE

plac

I tal Asent i charge

i long Sent

CON™

KANTIA:

105

DocId: 32340953

Page 2

---

## Page 3

/Released under the John F.

PATEfRe111453917

annedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

SECRET

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Merit es Moline

WFO 105-26269

Informant was unable to further clarify

DAVIDSON'S conversation with WEBB above DUET NAME UNKNOWN

that WEBB meet DAVIDSON and Major UZI (FNU for lunch

at "Duke"g" and identified Ull as the inventor of a gun.

DAVIDSON stated he planned to. tell UZI that WEBB would

show the gun to the "FBI" for DAVIDSON.

WEBB indicated

he would like to take the gun and show it to the Bureau

la's the Bureau would be interested in it. WEBB agreed

to have lunch with DAVIDSON, UZI and one DAVE CIANELHI,

not further identified. DAVIDSON commented/that

would be a guest of the U. S. Government for one month,

that he planned to demonstrate the gun and to visit

"war plants".

DAVIDSON added that UZI was one of

"SHIMON's boys" Mf

(u)

It is noted that SHIMON PERES was Director

General in

the Israeli

Ministry of Defense in 1958 and]S)

that a Foreign Agent's Registration statement executed

by DAVIDSON on 7/22/58,

contained a license to import

500 UZI 9 millimeter police machine pistols

In continuing the conversation, WEBB indicated

that CLINT had called him several times and WEBB stated

that he had told CLINT that he could not tell CLINT about

an unidentified matter because CLINT and DAVIDSON had

already discussed it.

WEBB indicated that CLINT had

asked WEBB to talk to HOfFA, possibly JAMES HOlEA of the

Teamsters Union, and that HOFFA expected

"two guys to be

taken care of''

in Pittsburgh:

WEBB continued that HOFFA

expected DAVIDSON "to pay the tax on that money" so

DAVIDSON was going to "level"

very little of it.

stated that that was comect. l

DAVIDSON

SECRET

.- 2 -

1(5)

CONF

NTAI

Approved:

Sent

M. Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32340953 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

PATE 111 16432617

SECRET

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

(Type in plain text or code).

(Priority or Method of MoUnd?

Approved:

WFO 105-26269

DAVIDSON indicated that one THOMPSON, not

further identified, had been involved in the above

matter with WEBB and that DAVIDSON had told CLINT that

WEBB and THOMPSON had been "very rough"' on DAVIDSON (DOU)

also advised that on 3/11/59, DAVIDSON

had been in contact with possibly is l

who shares office space with

DAVIDSON,

formerly employed in the Office of Munitions Control,

U. S. Department of State, in 1945.

DAVIDSON reminded

JIM that he was to lunch with DAVIDSON, UZI, TOM WEBB,

and DAVE CIANELLI.

JIM commented that he had all of

the

papers me needed for "security" and DAVIDSON and

JIM

agreed to meet at "'security" before lunch because

the

bank might be closed after lunch. In answer to JIM's

question, DAVIDSON stated he did not

need UZI's folder.

DAVIDSON

indicated that he had explained to UZI he was

not ready to release publicity since the necessary papers

had not cleared.

DAVIDSON indicated that "they" would be

ready about 3 weeks later with demonstrations for the

Government and "TOM WEBB with the TBI" •

DAVIDSON added

that he wanted to give the Government the first opportunity

before moving into the local market.

Noted the files of the Registration Section,

Internal Security Division, U. S. Department of Justice,

revealed on 8/19/58, that I. IRVING DAVIDSON, a public

relations counsel, had registered with the Justice Depart-

ment as an agent of the Republic of Nicaragua

on 4/15/55.

He had also registered with the above office on 7/22/58,

as an agent of Israeli Military Industries which was

controlled

by the Government of

Israeli

Vat hand is the ONE MAt

We some

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32340953 Page 4

---

