# docid-32309520

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10307

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1693-67

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note).

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

11/19/1962

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

INTERPEN, GPH, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT, ASSOC,

ACA, MIL TRAINING CAMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM, MEMO

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32309520

Page 1

49

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GO

MENT

Memorandum

CONFSDENTIAL

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (2=1693)

DATE:

NOV 19.1962

photo endle

i SAC, MIAMI (2-312) (P)

CC TO

A. 10

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION ROQ.

REC0. 5-9-67

SUBJECT:

CINTERCONTINENTAL

DECLAS

TRATION AND/OR,

PENETRATION FORCESTELLA

I SA ME ORMATIONAY 2: 1967

(INTERPEN)

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

BY:

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

KP11-13-97

Re Miami airtel to Bureau, with enclosures,

9/28/62.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies of letterhead

memorandum, dated and captioned as above.

EN I-1 is fam 639-568(4)

U. S. Customs, U.

Coast Guard,

and Border

Patrol have been orally

advised of information contained

in enclosed memorandum,

as soon as it was received from

the informant.

dain pee t91554-2565-

On November 13,

FREDERICK BUCCI,

Cla, Mami, advised that agency has no operational interest

In captioned organizatlon or individuals belonging fala)

Miami will maintain contact with*MM7639-Sfand

WIll keep the Bureau advised. Ku) tard?

-TICE (DRU)

68:83

Bureau

Miami

RJD/ neb

(4)

OSURE

9) (RM) 112i

Phot -Et

CC TO:

army

REQ. REC'D 211-63

FEB 9 6 1963

ANS.

BY:

nar

cone too y

SPY MARGEL

0e8t58 -4510

Declassity.om:

Classified

16

NEC

12 NOV

—HEÇ,O

1s DabW.es

39/85

3 Tế

Copy la: ClA/State/Re

DIA(i-OM)/ FAAN

N

ONJ/CS1/ACSI/ INs/Customs/C.Suard

by routing

Daic 11 / 20/62

for indo

by VAld/shiw

ALL INFORM

CONTAINED

HEREIN

IS

MASSIFIEN EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN

OSHERWISE.

SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR

ADD. DISSEMINATION.

CaN®

ENTIAL

HH

53074

DocId: 32309520

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BY SP8MA<lGeL

(GEK)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to.

File No.

MM 2-312

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

Miami, Florida

NOV 1 9 1962

Re :

INTERCONTINENTAL PENETRATION

FORCES (INTERPEN)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

MM T-1, who has been involved in Cuban

revolutionary activities for the past five years, and

who has furnished reliable information in the past,

August 29, 1962, advised that GERALD PATRICKLEMMING

continues

to be the head of the INTERPIN and that day

the head of Rescate Democratico

has a considerable following in the Miami, Florida,

metropolitan area*(m)

HEMMING invited VARONA to participate in military

trainings

to which VArONA stated he would not sponsor or

participate in any military training or action without

united States Government approya. (pe)

Later that day, HUMMING met wit SAM BENTON,

private investigator in

Miami,

who stated he was disappointed

that HEMMING had not yet sunk the thirty foot Chris Craft

cabin cruiser Outlaw

and that he had other boats

lined up to be sunk:

MM T-1 explained that the owners of

these boats would receive the insurance for their loss, and

nerG would be pale for sinking the boats m)

MM T-1 advised that on October 8, 1962, HEMMING

continued the operation of his military training camp at

No Name Read been Invited, and secepted an invication

Florida, and that FARRIS BRYANT, Governor of

Florida,

visit the training camp.

on September 28,

CUBA

the governor would not be able to visit

MM T-1 on October 15,

1962, advised that AurELIAno

the head of the triple A a Cuban anti-CASTRO

organ zatron had contacted HEMMING, yand stated he wanted

some members of the Triple A Biven military training at condon

8134/80

3-67

(DRO)

ENCLOSURE

D...

NW 53074 DooId: 32309520

Page 3

---

## Page 4

121620

Re: INTERPEN

plans

to have FELIPE

SANTIAGO,

a Cuban refugee

formerly in the Cuban Navy,

operate the boat,

and they

plan to go to cuba in the near future dimkle

On November 14, 1962, My T-1 advised that HEMMING

Stated that his group would probabiy depart from near

Marathon, Florida,

and would defy United States Border

Patrol or the United States

Customs Agents it the federal

government tried to stop them from going on a military

expedition. - HEMMING and

his group said that they would

return fire

on any federal government group that

to stop them,

the United States Navy(& M)

PROPERTY OF FBI • This memorandum is loaned to

you py the fit, and neither it nor its contents are to be

distributed outside the agency

to which loaned.

5. *

0-/2.200

74 53074

DocId: 32309520

Page 4

---

