# docid-32287398

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10197-10174

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-29-499

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/26/1962

5

CIP, DADE COUNTY, PAYOFFS TO LOCAL AUTHORITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32287398

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107

Mote) 'ó

DATTONAL FORM 1O? 917

5010 1, 04

INITED STATES GOyARNMENT

Memoranuura *

o....

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

WYROM

шин

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

DATE: March 26, 1962

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

ReBuairtel 3/21/62, requesting complete details of

information furnished by MM 606-PC concerning payoffs to local

authorities.

On 2/19/62, MM 606-PC advised the bolita operators

of Dade County were aggravated with JOE GORMAN, who was then

supervisor of the Vice Squad of the Dade County Department of

Public Safety. Informant stated GORMAN had been receiving pay-

off from bolita operators but had in the recent past arrested

a number of the same, stating that pressure was being put on

him and he cald not prevent the arrest.

The informant stated

GORMAN would be drinking in the bar and all of a sudden would

make the statement, I am going out and arrest, etc., etc.,

naming certain bolita operators.

Informant stated as a result the bolita operators

were getting together and were going to "get up a big bundle"

of money for the Sheriff, THOMAS KELLY, and have GORMAN trans-

ferred to the Narcotics Squad.

Information was received on March 9, 1962 that gt.

JOSEPH GORMAN had been transferred from the Vice Squad to the

Narcotics Squad.

On March 19, 1962, the informant advised there was

no more collections being taken in Dade County for protection

for bolita excery for the Miami Police Department:

This in-

formation was

ported in Miami teletype March 20, 1962.

2 - Bureau

2 - Miami

HWS: amc

(4)

5)

lend

5m 1541

REC- 113

6202.20

499

g:11 MAR 28 1962

67 APR 4 - 1962

DocId: 32287398 Page 2

---

