# docid-32309944

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USc 2107 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/1/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10301-10210

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

63-7985-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOJ

FROM:

TO:

[Restricted]

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 10/15/1962

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS : REFERRED TO DOJ, INC 2 A/T

19.1

DocId: 32309944

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 0f 1992 747 05c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES GO

JENT

Memorandum

- PARTMENT OF JUSTICE

TO

Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

DATE:

October 15, 1962

FROM

Herbert J. Miller, Jr.

Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division

SUBJECT:

International Brotherhood of Teamsters

Pension Fund loan bonding and insurance

James R.

Hoffa

Dorfman

Allen M. Dortman

was

Just 3.1

37 0CT 76 1962

EROC. "

3

4

Reports have been received that Allen Dorfman and

Iryin weiner with no apparent effort have obtained the insurance

and bonding business connected with hotels, motels and other

• businesses which have been recipients of loans from the Central

States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund. Allegedly,

the insurance is going through local agencies but ,the Dorfman

group is receiving the commissions.

Stanley Mallin of the Atlanta Cabana Motor Hotel, •

Atlanta, Georgia, said Dorfman got the insurance business

through Haas and Dodd Co, of Atlanta; that Haas invested $20,000

in thè Atlanta Cabana and in return wrote a $500,000 policy on

Mallin and Jay Sarno.

Elliot I. Haas and Dodd Insurance Brokers, Átlanta,

Georgia, was interviewed by the Bureau in relation to his

activities with the Atlanta and Dallas Cabana.

Haas stated that

are very nominal. He also said that because of construction

investments he made in the Dallas Cabana, he was given the

opportunity, to write $500,000 in life policies on Sarno and Mallin.

Records at Republig National Life of Dallas, texas. show Haas

placed business with C

ambridge Insurance Agency,

General Agents

for Republic, and earned a commission

in excess of $2,000.

(There is a Republic National Life check dated May 26, 1960, to

Elliot L. Haas for $2,115.31). Cambridge earned the overwrite

on the Sarno-Mallin life policies according to a report of

4.5.

on April 20, 1960,

Republic National Life'advised Cambridge that they were splitting

the commissions between, Elliot Haas of Atlanta and Cambridge or

olicies #187239 and #187240 written on Stanley Mallin and Ja

Sarno.

7985 -

ĐCT 2-8 1962

DocId: 32309944

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaser

Witer the Fohn

F.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Keruedy Assassination

Records Coltection Act of 1992 (14 U5e 2101 Hote).

SƠ

Schwartz is in frequent telephone,

with Charles Gritrin, Raymond Nelson and "Gene" Willage at

TR 300501, Atlanta, Georgia.

It is not known whether this

has any relationship to the Atlanta Cabana insurance.

According to Frank Wright, President of United

Bonding Co., Indianapolis,

Indiana,

Irvine einer picked

up the insurance business (with possible premiums of $1,000,000)

for the Castaways Motel, Miami Beach, Florida. Wright also

said that Weiner had obtained the insurance for the Everglades

Hotel in Miami.

The Atlanta Cabána Motor Hotel, the Castaways

Motel and the Everglades Hotel in Miami all received loans

from the Pension Fund.

It is requested that the Bureau interview Frank Wright,

President of United Bonding Co., Indianapolis, Indiana, concerning

his knowledge of the arrangement whereby insurance and bonding

furnished relative to these Pension Fund loans were acquired

by the Dorfmans and to conduct an investigation to determine the

following relative to the above mentioned loans by the Teamsters

Pension Fund:

(1)

what agencies and underwriting companies are

involved;

(2) what policies have been taken;

(3) what commissions have been paid;

(4) to whom.

(5) Interviews are requested with local insurance

and bonding agents to determine whether they have been approached

with "kickback" proposals.

(6) The Bureau is also requested to determine why

Cambridge got a portion of Haas' commission on the Mallin-Sarno

policies.

(See previous F.B.I. investigation of pension fund loan to the

Castaways.

1.52

• 2 .

DocId: 32309944 Page 3

---

