# docid-32327954

## Page 1

!

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10195

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3960-33

Releaed andea Bre 5aa

F. kerred:

Heeabezrabber Beccade

Cecteobber 208 28 2922

144 280 2007 Caben.

Ceeg=: 7, 45733 Sate:

-=--252-

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/27/1962

PAGES: 60

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/15/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 1A

v9.1

NW 45799

Docid: 32327954

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY '92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE cont.

HARVEY ST. CEAN, is not being interviewed at this

time because he is well known to the Miami Office as a

Criminal Attorney, who has for his clients, many of the

important members

of the hoodlum element in Miami Beach,

Florida.

Experience by the Miami Division has shown that

he is hostile and uncooperative and would not provide information

concerning his clients.

ALBERI H. BERLIN, aka A1 Berlin, FBI # 895806

according to information furnished by MM 509-C,

on 9/26/61, 1s

the publisher of a Labor Journal, known as the

"Miami Labor

Tribune," and has offices at 901 Northeast Ist St., Miami,

Florida.

The "Miami Labor Tribune" is a 64 page newspaper,

published every two weeks in Miami with a reported circulation

of approximately 30,000.

According to the informant, it is

partially sponsored by the AFL-CIO.

Miami Division indices are negative regarding MORRIS

MILTON and WILLIAM MARMER.

on 4/30/62, the records of the Bureau

of the Bureau

of Vital Statistics,

NY County, NY, as made available to IC ALAN

J. OUINET, falled toreflect any recora identillable with JOSEPHINE

DE VITO, the subject's mother.

On 5/7/62, Mrs. ANNE GRIFFIN, Records Section, INS,

EDNY, Brooklyn, NY, and Mr. JOHN WIMS, Naturalization Section,

Kings County Clerk

of Court Office, Brooklyn, NY, advised the,

records of their respective agencies are negative regarding MICHAEL

on 6/11/62, the records of the

NY County Board of Elections, as made available to IC RICHARD K.

BERRY, failed to reflect any

registration for JOSEPHINE GRANELLO,

the subject's mother.

advised that the

by IC CLARENCE J. KOTERBA, at Cleveland, Ohio:

COVER PAGE

C

9243960-388112

NW 45799 DooId: 32327954 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS cont.

Identity of Source

NY T-2

NY 204-C

NY T-3

NY 169-C

NY T-4

Former PCI

NY T-5

PCI

NY I-6

Mrs. FLORENCE ADAMS,

Alcohol and Beverage

control Board, Orange

county, Goshen, NY

(By request)

NY I-7

ROCKY GRAZIANO, 52 Curley

St., Long Beach, NY.

(BY

request)

NY T-8

NY 3661-C

NY T-9

CIS, NYCPD

NW 45799

DocId: 32327954 Page 3

Contacting Agent

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA WILLIAM W. TERRY

SA THOMAS J. EMERY

JEK Act 6 (4)

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and

CHARLES G. DONNELLY.

SAS RICHARD W. HEAD and

EUGENE J. HINDES.

SA JAMES P. FLYNN and SA

EUGENE J. HINDES.

SA JAMES I. MC SHANE

SA AUGUST J. MICEK

COVER PAGE

F

+9923960133

---

## Page 4

NY: 92-1108

INFOR MANTS cont.

Identity of Source

NY T-10

SA SAMUEL GLANZER,

Internal Revenue

Service, US Treasury

Dept., 245 West

Houston St., NYC.

NY T-11

PCI ABE GOLDSTEIN

NY I-12

Mr. RAYMOND SKINNER,

position).

MM T-7

PCI

MM T-2

MM 509-C

MM T-3

Mr. JAMES SAIENZA,

Pool Manager, Singapore

Motel, 9601 Collins Ave.,

Miami Beach

Florida.

(By request)

Contacting Agent

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SA JOHN J. MC MANUS

SA WILLIAM E. DOWLING

JFK Act 6 (4)

SA ROBERT F. FETZNER

SA WILLIAM E: DOWLING

COVER PAGE

DRS

REVIEWED BY ABUJFK TASK FORGE

ON

6/22/28 det

RELEASE IN FULL

DE RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

201396013

NW 45799

DocId: 32327954

Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 92-1108

LEADS :

NEWARK

At Newark, New Jersey

of that concern.

It may be noted that the names S. BURNS and

SAL BURNS appeared on bills of sale, numbers 1161 and 1151,

dated July, 1960.

In the event these bills of sale are

in the ev

available, endeavor to ascertain the identity of BURNS.

NEW YORK

At New York, New York

*I. Will attempt to verify the subject's interest in

the Peppermint Twist Lounge, Miami Beach, Florida.

Cho bus stan an a 5, 1 359-09°

Will consider interview of a representative number

of individuals identified by NY 3597-C* as possible contacts of

3. Will consider the interview of FLORA ANN BILETTO,

the alleged Victim of a rape on the part of the subject.

At Greenwood Lake, New York

*1. Will consider interview of Cosmo polizzi, Monroe,

NY, for information he may possess relative to the subject.

*2. Will contact CONKLIN STRONG, 21-27 South St.,

warwick, NY, for any information in the records of that concern,

relative to

the subject.

*3. Will contact Greenwood Lake Rod and Gun Club for

any information relative to the subject.

COVER PAGE

H

9285888-330102

NW 45799

DocId: 32327954 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 92-1108

B. Statutory Rape

Mer ro c on the pear on.

On May 23, 1902, DetectIve LES: MC GOWAN, 5th squad,

New York City Police Department, made available the following

information from the report concerning the investigation of

the alleged rape committed by the subject:

On September 23, 1959, information was received from

a confidential source by the New York City Police Department that

the subject had sexually assaulted a 15 year old girl at Greenwooc

Lake,

New Jersey, sometime between May and August, 1959. In

addition,

the subject is supposed to have paid the girl's father

$15,000.00 in order to compromise the alleged rape.

Subsequent investigation developed that the girl's

name was FLORA ANN BILETTO, date of birth- July 2, 1944, and she

formerly resided in Apartment 3-C, 274! Mott Street, New York City.

At the time of the investigation,

she resided at 52 West Oakdale

Street, Breatwood, Long Island, New York.

During the investigation,

Detective Lieutenant CHARLES C. DAUNER and Detective TIMOTHY V.

TALTY,

5th Squad, New York City Police Department, interviewed

the

subject, his wife, his daughter, and the alleged Victim and her

father,

but were unable to develop any information to substantiate

the allegation.

On May 24, 1962, NY I-9 advised that he was unable to

furnish any additional information concerning the alleged rape of

a teanage girl by the subject.

acquainted with SALLY BURNS all his life.

SALLY BURNS was involved in an affair with a 14 year old girl,

but he found it hara to belleve this report.

that he heard BURNS was not allowed in New York City.

11146322

He stated that he heard

However, he added

V. TRAVEL

on June 20, 1962, NY T-2 advised that he heard SOLLY

BURNS is currently in New York City. However, the informant added

that he had not seen him.

-14-

9503988358182

NW 45799 DocId: 32327954

Page 6

---

