# docid-32301706

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10279-10041

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4474-454

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note! .

Case#: NW

53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

DATE: 08/07/1968

PAGES:

22

SUBJECT:

OBA, MIRR, PODER CUBANO, ANTI-CASTRO GROUPS, BOMBING, VARIOUS

VESSELS, PRESS RELEASE, ADMITTING RESPONSIBILIT Y

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/15/1998

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

NH 53932 DocId:32301706 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2855

CONFIDENTAL

INS, Miami

State Department (Cuban Affairs), Miami

U.S.

Border Patrol, Miami

NISO, Charleston, S. C.

U. S. Customs, Miami

U. S. Customs, Region II

OSI, Robins Air Force Base, Georgia

CIA, Miami

USAFAD, Hialeah

U. S. Secret Service, Miami

Ilith MI. Group, Orlando

U. S. Coast Guard, Miami

This LHM is classified confidential in order

to protect confidential sources who are in a continuing

position to furnish pertinent information of a security

nature.

MM T-I IS OSCAR ANGULO REYES, PSI (UD), who is

MM T-2 iS RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, Key

Cuban.

И)

Two photographs, along with descriptive data,

of the following individuals are being enclosed for the

Tampa Office:

ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA

ANDRES JORGE GONZALEZ GONZALEZ

BARBARO BALAN GARCIA

MARCO RODRIGUEZ RAMOS

JOSE DIAZ MOREJON

JOSE ANTONIO MULET GONZALEZ

AGUSTIN SOSA RODRIGUEZ

JORGE LUIS GUTIERREZ ULLA

JULIO AVALOS HERNANDEZ

CON TIAT

HIH

53932 DocId: 32301706 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFID

ENTIAL

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL.

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

(MIRR)

BOSCH has revealed to confidants that time delay

devices were used in each of these instances,

BOSCH's Cuban Power should be distinguished

from another Cuban Power group which operates under the

leadership of HECTOR CORNILLOT LLANO and JUAN GARCIA

CARDENAS, Cuban exiles,

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS

A. BOMBINGS

1

MOST RECENT CLAIM

On August

4, 1968, MM T-1, a Cuban exile who

is closely acquainted

with members of BOSCH's organization

as

well

as other groups, reported that on the night of

August

B, 1968, ANDRES

.. JORGE GONZALEZ GONZALEZ, described

as the principal MIRR bomb expert, disclosed that he and

BOSCH were expecting a big bomb to go off between August

and August 7, 1968, and sink a ship.

GONZALEZ described

the boat as being a small British ship with a Negro crew,

but he did not specifically identify the ship nor divulge

the

time or place where the bomb had been planted.

MM T-1

speculated that the

bomb may have been placed in Miami

an island freighter plying between the Bahamas and Miami, as

many of these vessels fly the British flag and have Negro

crews

August 2, 1968.

Also MM T-1 had seen GONZALEZ in Miami on

U1 )

BOSCH,

who was present, stated that after news

of this bombing is made public,

a press release will be

issued

by "ERNESTO, General Delegate, Cuban Power"

announcing the appointment of BOSCH as the civilian delegate

of cuban power. previous investigation has reflected (dU)

CONFIDPNTIAL

NW 53932 DooId: 32301706 Page 3

---

