# docid-32202325

## Page 1

Date: 09/30/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY

:SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10005-10135

' kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

RECORDS SERIES :

144 USC 2107 Notel.

SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVT OPS-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITEase#: NU 53244 Date:

06-13-2017

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : R2930

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : SSCIA

FROM : JOHNSTON, JIM

TO : ELDER, WALTER

TITLE :

LETTER REQUESTING ACCESS TO DOCS

DATE : 04/12/76

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

REQUESTING DOCS FOR INVESTIGATION OF JFK ASSASSINATION

REQUEST FOR TESTIMONY FROM JANE ROMAN

ACCESS TO ALL AGENCY FILES ON VICTOR ESPINOSA (AMLASH)

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX 431-79

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

Bx34

HH 53244

DocId: 32202325

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH,

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, XY.

CHARLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS. MINORITY COUNSEL

SSCI BOX # 431-79

@nited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, BATH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

April 12, 1976

10135

R2939

LEONSE

2/14/77

Mr. Walter Elder

Review Staff

Central Intelligence Agency

Langley, Virginia

Dear Mr. Elder:

In connection with the Select Committee's investiga-

tion of the assassination of President Kennedy we request:

(1) The opportunity to take testimony from Jane

Roman, an Agency employee working on Cuban matters in

1964.

If she is no longer employed by CIA, we wish

to have her current address and telephone number;

2 Access to all Agency files on the Victos

Espinosa who met with FBI and apparently CIA in June

1965 regarding AMLASH.

Sincerely,

findinion

Jim

Johnston

CHA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

12-7-91

OLOING

JJimd.

HW 53244 DocId: 32202325 Page 2

---

