# docid-32115177

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy AssassiRecord LIeS 4606992 414 U56 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MANN

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10006-10019

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-6687, 6688

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OT

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 06/08/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-4106

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

03/02/1999

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

11/16/2000

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

INC LEG; OT LHM, DIRECTOR, FBI REPONSE TO WC

DocId: 32115177

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: '11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

June 8, 1,964

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

In connection

ith the book entitled "The Sinners"

written by. Wolodymyr Newyliwskyi, a copy of which was

forwarded

to the FBI in an envelope bearing the return address Wolodymyr

The source said NEMYLIWSKYJ,

who is also known as NEMYLIWSKY, has been the author of several

letters to the source during the period between 1956 and 1964;

and described NEMYLIWSKYJas a self-styled detective and under-

cover investigator.

The source advised that on receipt of the

first letter from this individual, he had been interviewed at his

residençe and had been found to be mentally. disturbed. and suffering

from a persecution complex. ](e)

The source cited several instances of material received

from NEMYLIWSKYJ to substantiate the above information and said it

was felt that any undertaking to have him interviewed concerning

comments set forth in his book concerning LEE HARVEY OSWALD would &J

prove fruitless and would only serve in provoking his nental

disturbance further.

The source advised further that on March 23, 1964,

NEMYLIWSKYJ appeared in police court in Toronto, Ontario, charged

with unlawfully. being in a dwelling house and impersonating a

police officer

Charges were withdrawn on the charge of unlawfully

being in a dwelling house; however, he was convicted and sentenced

to 15 days on the charge of impersonating a police officer. €)

ALL INFORNADION CONTAINED

HERCIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCET WHERE SHOWN

OTHERVISE

4/14/89

Classified by 1565 500/AHR

•Declassify on DADR

acread 6/15/93 980 3RD0/GCL(IFK)

CONFIDENTIAL

100-10461- 6687

SEARCHED

..INDEXED

SERIALIZED

JUN1 8,1904

FBI - DALLAS

0- 858983

DocId: 32115177 Page 2

---

