# docid-32322721

## Page 1

- JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10380-10012

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 97-4194-34

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54027 Date:

08-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/17/1965

5

CARLOS ZARRAGA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO, NOTE

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32322721

Page 1

---

## Page 2

lt. Belmor

FBI WASH DC

FBI MIAMI

12:17/

PM EST URGENT 2-17-65 MSB

TO DIRECIOR (97-4194)

FROM MIAMI (1 05-2481) (P) 2P

FELLNAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

V. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 1 7 1965

TELETYPE gO

REVIEWED BY RETUFK TASK FORCE

ON

723.97 daL

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr.

Gal

Mr. Rosha

Mr. Sulive

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Trotter-

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes_

Miss Gandy_

REC 125

ASOCIACI ON NACIONALISTA CUBANÀ RAREN

CUBAN NATIONALIST ASSOCIATION

DASH

CNA) PAREM..

INTERNAL DEERIN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

IS DASH CUBA

FERGIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 2015

ÓN JAN. IWENTYEIGHI LAST CARLOS/BARRAGO

IVARTINEZ PARET

(PROTECT) PAIN, KEY SOURCE DACH CUBA, ADVISED THAT ELADIO DELVALLE,

CUBAN NATIONAL RESIDING IN MIAMI AND FORMER HEAD OF CUBAN MERCHANT

MARINE, WAS PLANNING SOME MISSION AGAINSI CUBA, THAT DEL VALLE HAD

ACQUIRED A THIRTYIWO FOOT CUBAN SIGMA TYPE FISHING BOAI, QUOTE PURA

MERCEDES UNQUOTE, AND HAD TWO SMALL IWENTYFOUR FOOT MOTORBOATS!

U.S, CUSTOMS, WAS NOTIFIED AND PLACED QUATE "PURA MERCEDES" UNCUOTE

UNDER SURVEILLANCE.

EX-TIL REC- 125

94-4194-34

ON FEB. SEVENTEEN CUSTOMS

ADVISED INFO HAD

BEEN RECEIVER THAT

DEL VALLE AND FELIPE RIVER DIAZ WERE WORKING WITH OR FOR TH

NATIONALIST ASSOCIATION

ANG PLANES TO JON AGE PURI NICE AN

UNQUOTE TO BLOW UP BRITISH INTER BASH ISLAND TANKER QUOTE "CORAL

SHELL"

UNQUOTE. RAID REPORTEDLY WILL TAKE PLACE FEB. EIGHTEEN OR

END PAGE ONE

MR. DELMONT FOR THE DIRECTOR

13246

NW 54027 DooId: 32322721

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

NINETEEN NEXT. QUOTE PURA MERCEDES UNQUOTE AND A BOSTON WHALER

| SPEEDBOAT WILL BE USED. GROUP HAS A IWELVE POUND MAGNETIC MINE

AND A COUPLE OF FROGMEN. THE OPERATION IS REPORTEDLY FINANCED

BY EUSEBIDANUJAL, FORMER LABOR-LEADER IN CUBA.

QUOTE PURA MERCEDES "UNQUOTE PRESENTLY LOCATED IN MIAMI RIVER

AND UNDER SURVEILLANCE BY U.S. CUSTOMS.

MIAMI OFFICE MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH ZARRAGA AND CUSTOMS,

AND WILL KEEP BUREAU ADVISED.

CIA AND U.S.C.G. AWARE OF ABOVE. LHM FOLLOWS.

END

WA ALS

Scenal 32

FBI WASH DC

DISC

IN 54027 DocId:32322721 Page 3

---

