# docid-32300963

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10277-10298

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-555

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TALBURTT, ORVILLE R

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

12/13/1963

21

LCN, ASSOC, EXISTENCE, NH, CT, CRIMINAL ACT, CONPR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

V9.1

DocId: 32300963

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released muet the do I. Kennety Assa551nat10n Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

F'D-883 (R::

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW HAVEN

TITLE OF CASE,

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

12/13/63

6/1/63-12/10/63

REPORT MADE BY.

SA ORVILLE R. TALBURTT

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

sac

LA COSA NOSTRA

NEW HAVEN DIVISION

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES:

Bureau airtel to New Haven dated 11/4/63.

=P-

ENCLOSURES TO BUREAU:

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of letter-

head memorandum concerning characterization of

informants.

ENCLOSURES TO NEW YORK:

Enclosed to New York are two copies of letter-

head memorandum concerning characterization of

informants.

INFORMANTS

CEW WAL

COPIES MADE: 3-Bureau (92-6054) (Encl.

2-New York (Encl. 2) (92-2300)

6-New Haven

1-92-67

1-92-72

1-92-156

1-92-196

2-92-282

DISSEMINAT. SH

RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-555

•6 17 1963

REC 55

COLIEST

REQUEST RECO

DATE :H0...

HOW FAD.

BY.

DocId: 32300963 Page 2

NOTATIONS

---

## Page 3

Released under the John f. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NH 92-282

NH T-1 is

JOHN T. CUSACK

Special Narcotics Squad,

United States Treasury

New York City

NH T-2 is

Former New York informant

NH 91-C

NH T-3 is

PARL LELAND,

Manager Hooper-Holmes

Bureau, Hartford,

Connecticut

NH T-5 is

NH 431-PC

NH T-6 is

NY 3844-C-TE

NH T-7 is

NH 430- C

NH T-8 is

NH 416-PC

NH T-4 is

NH 420-C

LEADS:

At New Haven, Connecticut

No specific investigative leads are being setout

in this report at this time; however, it is to be

noted that individual investigative files are maintained

on individuals named in this report and their activities

net in ted.

are reported in their files.

Information developed,

in connection with their activities or other

individuals which would pertinently relate to

La Cosa Nostra will be furnished to the Bureau and

to the veng

to the New York Office when received.

199.73

B.*

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32300963 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NH 92-282

source of the New Haven Livision, who has furnished

reliable

information in the past, advised tht he

was contacted on two occasions by RALPH TROPIANO,

who indicated to this source tht he was interested

in LOMBARDOZZI from the standpoint of he, TROPIANO,

making bond for LOMBARDOZZI, if bond were possible.

TROPIANO stated to this source that he would be

reponsible for IMBARDOZZI's bond.,

It developed that bond in this matter was not

allowable to LOMBARDOZZI, and he remained in the

custody of the government until August 23, 1963 at

which time he admitted in District Court that he,

LOMBARDOZZI, had violated his Connecticut probation.

At this time, the federal judge sentenced LOMBARDOZZI

to one year and denied a request that he be given

even a few days to arrange his personal affairs.

During the latter part of November, 1963, SALVATORE

ANNUNZIATO, a highly placed New Haven racketeer, who

might have some connection with the VITO GENOVESE

"family", was arrested by the New Haven Police Depart-

ment and charged with assault with intent to kill,

wherein ANNUNZIATO was alleged to have shot LAWRENCE

"LARRY" ZERNITZ, another New Haven hoodlum involved

in gambling activities.

At the time of the shooting, ANNUNZIATO was standing.

trial in New Haven courts charged with two separate

cases of aggrevated assault.

Bond in connection with the shooting affair was

placed at $50,000. ANNUNZIATO was able to arrange

bond by placing his home as collateral and property

owned by other members of his family.

A reliable source in the New Haven Police Department

advised that he had received confirming information

5 .

DocId: 32300963 Page 1

---

