# docid-32333894

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90108-10036

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-3035-33

Released under the John

i. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) •

Case#:NW 53025 Date:

05-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BROWN

TO :

DL

TITLE:

DATE: 05/22/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

N9.1

HH 53025

DocId: 32333894

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

68. S/6c

0T0(OOZ0@•0I

IRMATION CONG

2X

OT

Classified by SP6B

Derlassify

211,326

DR

ATTA RED ENTA

K(4)

SAC, DALLASY 194-1A-7191)

5/22/63

SA W. HARLAN BROWN

8-18-81

CLASS

& EXT. BY 6383 021€

REASON- FCIT 311-2.4.2_

DATE OF RUVIEW

3-72-8

Appeal # 9-0172

On

5/9/63

SA

W.

HARLAN BROWN received,

anperson,

a type

written report,

dated 5/6/65,

toon Die.

This

report has been

serialized as

130-1A-749. X(&\ U)

Infornant determined on 5/8/63 that on that

date there

was a regular CP meeting hold in BIlk LOWBlY's car at the Lone

Star

Drivening.

BILL LOVERY, AUGUSTIN ESTRADA aNd JOE LANDIN veTO

present.

They discusned the Crystal City elections. LOW! informed

then that at the

luncheon nooting that ho attends,

the Crystal City

elections were discussed. J. 0. GARCIA vas present at that neoting.

Someone suggeeted that he call United Fress o? Associated Press and

ask that reporters be sent there.

GARCIA's remarks, according to

LOWERY, were that such a thing was useless - the Rangers would only

beat thon up.

Some of those preseat, hinsolf (Lotsly) included,

stared at bin in disbelief.

rolanx added that suca a succestion

should have cone fron GARCIA hinsol1 - slace it concerned his people.

He was alsost oure that holls buddas, writer

for tbe Texas

Observer' would be in Dallas Wednesday or Thuraday.

He Has sure

to make the Thursday

about the elections.

unchel, perhaps, then, they could lears more

Intormant determined ISTRADA then said he was not feeling

too well and lere for hone.

Before leaving ho gave JOB LARDIN a

papersack containing literature.

This was what had been left after

Lowly and he had picked that they wanted. fUElu)

AFter ESTRADA left, DILL Lovsky Informed dus LAsta that

tro of the meetings he had with lina vore sort o persona;

had discussed their problens at home.

COBCCIUING

Crystas City,

LOVERY reported that Attorney GEORGE SCHATZICE was to find out

what was really happoning in Crystal City.

LOWERY had proposed some

action (by the luncheon group) to protect

the Crystal City lating

fres the hangers.

Schliust sald tuat 11r5t they

soss facts

and figures.

Schatur also belongs to the Acuu.

NA (u)

(u)

1

Informant had no additional informatim

LOVERY)

1300-7903 (A. ESTRADA)2-(100-8001

LANDIN)

62-303538

- 100-671-3(BOL ACES

WHB: jeg

(ACLU)

(7)

Classit ted by

Front from C

Date of Deel

adofinito

DML DAD

EUN

MNi 8 8 1583

FBi - DALLAS

d0103-10054

NH 53025

DocId: 32333894

Page 2

---

