# docid-32325719

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90037-10001

" RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-380792-1

Released under the John

'. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

AL

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

06/05/1951

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

MARTIN GREENDLINGER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

49.1

• 53074

DocId: 32325719

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AI, 100-12453

ADMINISIRATIVE PAGE

Confidential Informant I-l is Albany CNDI 2869, who furnished his information

to Special Agents PITIR F. MAXSON and WAITER C.

JOHNSTON.

Confidential Informant I-? is Albany CNDI 2848, who furnished his information

to Special Agent ALEXANDER I. GUCKER.

Confidential Informant I-3 1s CLARINCE W. MITCHILI, Manager, Western Union,

Ithaca, New York, who furnished his infornation to

Special Agent PETER I. MAXSON and requested that

his identity be maintained confidential.

Confidential Informant I-4 is EVAN J. MORRIS, Proprietor, Triangle Book Shop,

which includes a branch agency of the Western

Union, 410 College Avenue, Ithaca, New York, who

furnished his infornation to Special Agent PHIAR

F. MAXSON and requested that his identity be main-

tained confidential.

Confidential Informant I-5 is District Office #22, Office of Special Investi-

gations, United States Air Force, Sampson Air Force

Base, Geneva, New York, ROGER HICKS, Lieutenant

Colonel, United States Air force, District Conmander.

Confidential Informant I-6 is Albany ONDI 2859, who was contacted by Special

Agent ROBERT D. LEE.

Confidential Informant I-? is CNDI 2671.

NW 53074 DooId: 32325719 Page 2

---

