# docid-32139350

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Releazed under the John F.

Kennedy assassination Records

Collection Act

1992

144

2107 Notel.

Case# : NTJ

64046 Date: 08-33-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10059-10366

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-5526

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BRANIGAN. W. A.

TO:

SULLIVAN. W. C.

TITLE:

DATE: 07/05/1967

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: GARRISON, JAMES, INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS®

08/18/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 54046 DocId:32139350 Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

DATIONAL CORM NO, 10

5010-100

MAY21962 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REc. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

sir. W. co surishen.

Tolso

DeL

Mo

Callahan -

onrad -

Mr.

W. A.

Branigan

SUBJECT

DATE:

July 5, 1967

1

Mr. C. D. DeLoach

Mr.

E. Wick.

Mr.

Rosen

1

Mr.

W. C. Sullivan

Mr.

-

Mr.

W.

A.

Branigan

R.

E. Lenihan

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy -

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY-

NOVEMBER 22,

1963,

DALLAS, TEXAS

ALT INTONE TOO

COVIAINED

ENREEN IS LEI

PURPOSE:

BEr,7

a Potential Confidential Informant (PCI) of our Chicago 2

Office, and a polygraph examiner for Keeler Polygraph Li

....

, ex-girl friend of Russo ande

polygraph examinations given them by Harrelson's source...

This recommends source's information be paraphrasedana,

summarized and disseminated to Attorney General

BACKGROUND:

Neb

New Orleans District Attorney James C. Garrison

in his investigation of the assassination of President Kennedy

has alleged a conspiracy for this purpose existed between

Clay Shaw, a retired New Orleans businessman, David Ferrie

and; Lee Harvey Oswald.

Perry Russo and Sandra Moffett

-McMaines allegedly were present in Ferrie's apartment and

heard discussions in this regard.

Russo was Garrison's

principal witness against Shaw in 3/67 following which Shaw

-was' indicted for conspiracy to assassinate President Kennedy.

It was subsequently disclosed that Russo was:

subjected to drugs and hypnosis pribit has also been

to,nis testimony, for

which Garrison has been criticized.

disclosed that Mrs. McMaines was contacted in Omaba, Nebraska,

by representatives of Garrison's

office,and strongly urged

mr e

to return +957-104

New Orleans to give testimony.

|| Je INFORMANT' SL iNFORMATIO

4 To: 62-10,9060

55 guile

VEC.D-iOr¿ON,2 OLLICE

HECPÔI Harrelson advised' he learnedrthe ftofiowing

New Orleans whom'he" diappot identify, but whom Harrelson

Enclosure

8-6-6>

627109060

:as/rwi

(7)

CONTINUED ! OVER 12 1967

51 JUL181987

54046

DocId: 32139350

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Memorandum to Mr. W. C. Sullivan

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

62-109060

knows well

as he is also a polygraph examiner, having been

trained at the Keeler Polygraph Institute. Harrelson was

advised by his source that Russo appeared at source's office

on 6/19/67 to be afforded a polygraph examination regarding

his story of the plot to assassinate President Kennedy.

Russo's breathing, however, was so erratic be was considered

an unfit subject for polygraph examination. Russo told

Harrelson's source that he did not know if

Clay Shaw was at

the meeting or not.

Russo stated he had fully intended to

go into court and testify that he did not know if Shaws

present or not but became angered at a question by Shaw's

attorney.

Russo admitted that he bad undergone psychiatric

treatment for a year and a half and also admitted homosexual

acts. After giving Garrison a verbal report, Harrelson's

source stated he was told in no uncertain terms to keep

Shis mouth shut.

Harrelson's source also stated he gave Mrs. McMaines

four separate polygraph examinations at the request of an

= *

attorney. in Des Moines, Iowa,

following a pretesting inter-

view during which she

admitted becoming pregnant by Russo

and engaging in prostitution in New Orleans.

She denied ever

meeting Shaw or Oswald

and stated she never

attended a

party at Ferrie's apartment. She also stated Russo asked

her to marry him to keep him out of the service.

Also

She

stated she had been contacted by two of Garrison's men in

Omaha in an attempt to persuade her to return to New Orleans

to give testimony.

This she refused to do even after being

promised new clothes and that she would stay at the finest

hotels.

Polygraph examination indicated McMaines was

substantially truthful.

OBSERVATIONS:

Harrelson furnished the above information on an

extremely confidential basis and urged that under no circum-

stances should his identify be divulged and that extreme

caution be exercised in use of his information in order not

to in any way violate the confidential relationship between

the PCI and those individuals he named. It is believed

that the information regarding Russo's admissions and

Mrs. McMaines having been afforded polygraph examinations

should be furnished to the Attorney General.

2

CONTINUED - OVER

101-00-

54046

DocId: 32139350

Page 3

---

