# docid-32287506

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10197-10282

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2781-1276

1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NH 45966 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HALL, WENDELL W. JR.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/24/1968

PAGES:

43

SUBJECTS :

LST, RES, ASSOC, TRAVEL, TELCAL, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45966

DocId: 32287506

Page

1

2

---

## Page 2

7):

MM 92-88

ADMINISTRATIVE

On February 26,

1968, Internal Revenue Service

(IRS), Agent THOMAS LOPEY advised that-

JFK

By communication dated March 11, 1968, the

Milwaukee Division advised that they had learned from

MI 607-C on March 6,

1968, that one JIMMY FAZIO is

operating a steak house in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, and

that he had been visited in Florida by a brother LoUTs

FAZIO. JIMMY revealed that he was paying off to the

syndicate in the amount of $100

per

week and source

recalled the name of TRAFICANTI being mentioned

Also

(FNU) SARCONE was mentioned as the guy who was picking

up the money for the syndicate

ALL OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS FURNISHED BY

INFORMANT ONA STRICTLY. CONFIDENTTAL BASIS. IT SHOULD

NOT BE DISSEMINATED AND SHOULD NOT BE UTILIZED IN

TO THEY BEST OF INFORMANTS. KNOWLEDGES

On April 14,

1968, C.H.

CORDES, President, Crawford

Door Sales Company,

7445 West 4th Avenue, Hialeah, Florida,

reviewed his records and found that he had installed a

garage door opening device in the residence of SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, 745 NE 155th Street,

in August, 1967. The

previous garage door device was a linear but in August it

was changed to a Telectron, which is manufactured in

Ft.

Lauderdale, Florida

Two opening devices were fur-

REVIEWED BY

JFK TASK FORCE

:B

7(22/98 dol

COVER: PAGE

FELLASE IN PART.

SO TOTAL DENIAL

H4: 15966

DocId: 32287506

Page 20 wan

92-2781-1276

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

nished to TRAFFICANT and they were set on the following

frequencies

The transmitter carrier frequency is set

at 295 megacycles and the two audio

frequencies

kilocycles re, set at sixteen and twelve

respectively

The code for

these settings is 295-16-12.

On April 968, the records of Dun and

Bradstreet, Miami,

Morida, made available to IC

CLIFFORD M. WERNER reflected that the Hamilton Gift

Shop; 825 Lincoln Road,- Miami Beach, Florida, telephone

305-532-46076 was started in July,

, 1965, by MANUEL

GONZALEZ when he

purchased the business from fine Arts,

Inc

GONZALEZ was born in Tampa, Florida, in 1924,

and the company retails gifts and souvenirs with approxi-

mately $100,000 sales annually.

He has two employees.

INFORMANTS

MM T-1 1S PCI

MM T-2 iS PCI

MM T-3 1s MM 1219-C.

MM T-4 IS RICARDO GONZALEZ ASENJO, Miami,

Florida, by request

MM T-5 IS PCI

MM T-6 iS PCI

MM T-7 1S MM 867_C

MM. T-8 1S PCI

MM: T-9 1S MM 1281-C

MM T-10 1S MM 984-C-TE.

MM T-11 1S MM 847-S

MM T-12 1s Deputy Sheriff AL VIDAL,

: Monroe

County, Florida, by request

BJEK Act 6 (4)

:C.

COVER PAGE

MW. 45966 Docid:32287506

Page3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

On February 26,

1968, Internal Revenue Service

Agent THOMAS LOPEZ advised that

JEK LaW

door,

Ford free arts 8 Florida case 1030539,

was observed at the tRAFFICANTe residence, 740 Ne 155th

Street.

At 1015 PM the automobile left with one man

Italian appearing, age about 50, driving the vehicle.

The 1967 Fiorida license 1D59533 is registered

to ROBERT D. MARION, 120 NE 162nd Street, Miami, Florida

.?.

On February 28, 1968, ISRAEL SCHULTZ, Manager,

Seaside Manor Apartments,

2814 Collins Avenue, advised

that his records contained no reference to a Mr. and Mrs

JOHN MARTIN as ever having resided in these

apartments

Jackson re once cartsed thad repent 726, 196s

JACKIE THOMAS, Title Clerk, Motor Vehicle Commission,

Tallahassee,

riorida, advised IC R. EUGN HERRING

that 1967 Florida license

68wW-1096 was issued to ANGELO: A.

ALI, 608 Ainsley Building, North Miami Beach, Florida,

for use on 1965 Cadillac, Vebicle Identification Number

J5130696, under Florida Title Number 2030250, issued

rebruary, 20, 1968. Lien is held by First National Bank

of Miami, Box 0555, Miami, 220 234/1968

in the amount o1

$3,213.36, recorded on January 23

On rebruary 28, 1968, Investigator GEORGE

FADER, Florida State Beverage Commission, Miami, Florida

advised that THOMAS MARCHESE, TRAFFICANTEs brother-in-

law, had appealed the dental of his license to work as

a manager of the

46th Street liquor store owned by OAKLEY!

SMITH.

On the date of the scheduled appeal hearings

MARCHESE failed to appear and was thus barred from any

further employment in this business.

The Beverage

34

922781-1276

ÍH 45966 DocTA:32207506 Page: 4

---

## Page 5

MM 92-88

girl approximately 22 years old. Source did not know what

airline she had previously worked for but thought that it

was possibly Eastern

On March 6, 1968,

MM T-ll advised that on

Tuesday evening, March 5, 1968, SANTO TRAFFICANTE had

dinner at the Les Violines Restaurant with RAUL GONZALEZ

JEREZ, former Bay of Pigs prisonert and owner of Raul's

21 Club on Miami Beach. GONZALEZ was formerly a gambler

in Cuba and worked for TRAFFICANTE in Cuba. Also at:

their table was MARTA FLORES, who has a women's program

on one of the local Spanish radio stations. TRAFFICANTE

visits the restaurant about three or four times a year

On March 7,

1968, Internal Revenue Service

Agent THOMAS LOPEZ advised that

JFK

On March 21, 1968, MM T-10 advised that he had -

learned that SANTO TRAFFICANTE was supposed to travel to

New

Orleans with his wife on March 12 or March

14, 1968,

and that they reportedly were planning to stay at the

Roosevelt Hotel in New Orleans.

Source stated that

OAKLEY SMITH, TRAFFICANTE's attorney, left Miami two

days later and had returned to Miami on March 19, 1968

On March 25, 1968, a check of the records of

the Dade

County Courthouse, Federal Tax Lien Books,

Book

90, Page 3, reflects a tax tien filed January 2, 1968

by the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Dade County against

SANTO TRAFFICANTE,

which was based on a wagering tax for the period between

November, 1951, and September,

1953

and assessed July 9,

1954.

- 360

92-2781-1276

45966 Doela:32287506

Page 5

---

## Page 6

(MM.92-88

On March 25, 1968, Internal Revenue Service

Agent THOMAS LOPEZ Miami, advised that

This automobile is registered to FRANk R.

ROSENTHAL, also known as Lefty.

Rosenthal, 2123 Ne 122nd

Street,

Miamt, and known bookmaker and sports odds maker

from Miami, but who definitely was not identical to the

driver of the vehicle who met with TRAFFICANTE

On March 25, 1968, Sergeant EUGEND MC CRACKEN

Miami Police Department

Intelligence Unit, advised that

• March 22, 1968,

at Islamorada, Monroe County, Florida,

an unknown male had been observed in conversation with

some well known Key West gamblers. The unknown male was

described as white male,

6'1", 165 pounds,

pock marked

face, driving a new Dodge Dart, bearing 1967 Florida

license 1-197122, which is registered to JOSEPHINE

TRAFFICANTE,

740, NE 155th Street, Miami.

On April 3, 1968, MM T-12 advised that at approxi-

mately 6:30 PM On March 22,

1968, he had observed ARTEMIO

CRESPO and WHITEY MARTIN in Marten's Restaurant in Isla-

morada, Monroe County, Tlorida., They were in conversation

with an unknown man who was drivinga 1968 Dodge Dart,

1967 Florida 1-197122

WHITEY MARIEN IS a well known

gambler from the middle keys and is the former owner of

Martin's Restaurant in Islamorada. ARTEMIO.CRESPO,

also

known as Artie,, is the leading bolita banker in Key West,

Florida,

and long has had the reputation of being. the

'bag man!' for Monroe County Sheriff REACE THOMPSON.

Source stated that he had learned that this

automobile was registered to JOSEPHINE TRAFFICANTE 01 Miami,

Florida. Source stated he further learned that ARTIE

CRESPO had allegedly stated he had wanted to get out of

the bolita business and was meeting this unknown man who

was his "Miami contact" who could get him a Job in a

casino in Las Vegas

A step-brother of ARTIE, named

REGAL (LNU) but possibly TERNANDEZ, recently left Key

west and obtained a job in Las Vegas after being recom-

mended by SANTO TRAFFICANTE

- 37

12-2784-1276

45966

DocId: 32287506 Page 6

---

