# docid-32340390

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/17/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90158-10047

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-132509-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: MM

TITLE:

DATE : 09/18/1967

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

FRANCISCO RODRIGO VALLLABRIGA

LUIS POSADA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

y91

HW 45924

DocId: 32340390

Page 1

17.

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL 150RM NO. 10*

MA! 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

ISE

RET

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-132509)

DATE:

9/18/67

• 8/19/97

CLASSINED BY 5818-S4D/mIz

SAC, MIAMI (105-8988) (P)

DECLARERY ON: 25

(JFK)

FRANCISCO RODRIGO VALLABRIGA GARCIA, aka

IS - CUBA

# 211,384

AND THNORU

SECON CONTAINED

HENGIN

iSCIFIED

LUNN

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE ON CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 2-9-98

MATENTT

checke

49/27/6

MMM

9/21/47

aintel

Re Bureau letter dated 6/12/67.

Declassify cars

OADR

1144/95

Information has beenpreviously received

regarding the subject from CIA by memo dated 9/17/64.

The memo reflected that CIA had two sources who were

19/6/54

in a position to furnish information on the subject.

At that time, however, the sources were unavailable.

CIA has been re-contacted to determine if those

sou ces been recent at the present time: (TA(u)

The most recent information from CIA

concerning the subject was set out in their

communication dated 5/15/67, which was made available

to the Miami Office by the Bureau as an enclosure to

referenced Bureau letter.

On 6/9/67, AUSTIN HORN,

CIA Covert, Miami (Protect) advised that the

information in memo dated 5/15/67, was furnished by

CIA Headquarters and did not originate in the United

The matter is being handled at the Washington level blu.

It is requested that the Bureau ascertain

ascl

if the CIA source who furnished the information

reported in their communication dated 5/15/67

available at this time for interview.

7A(u)

Concerning the pro-CASTBO activities

of the

subject, it should be

noted that MM 1070-s*, 4J

formerly Tampa 187-S*

reported on 1/15/65,

ANDRE and his friend referred to

as "PAQUITO"

, who is

obviously the subject, had partsipated in a program

to detect

plans of anti-CASTRO

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 510AKSI

Individuals in the Miami area

105-132509:

4-16-481

- Bureau! Pelt worr

JEK) BEG G

2 - Miami

105-8988)

(1'- 105-6335)

(RAUL ANDRE LLANO)

=ARe copies mado

15 SEP 20 1967

(TRY)

JEM: pb

SEE REVERSE

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

Lon Farico at DanDE

ASCA MO

0/ 12/22/77

(SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

HW 459290-00cId: 32340390

---

## Page 3

SECRET

MM 105-8988

A letter outlining the program was

forwarded to New York by RAUL ANDRE by a trusted

courier. This letter was eventually,

made available [U

to the Cuban Mission of the UN (CMUN)) In the

communication forwarded to New York,

out that he and "PAQUITO" decided to tell no one

about their plans. (E)

The fact that ANDRE indicated that knowledge

of their plans should be limited to himself and the

subject and in addition that he preferred to

transmit

the communication by a trusted courier rather

than use the United States mail service indicates the

safeguards utilized by ANDRE

protect their activities.

Jand the subject to

In the communication forwarded to New York

certain individuals were listed as targets, among

them being

WIS POZADA, VARELO

CASTRO, and EVILIO

LPIZAR. 14

formerly MM 801-S,

advised

on

4/28/65, that

VALLABRIGA on 4/25/65, went to

750 Northwest 15th Street, to contact an anti-CASTRO

this anti-CASTRO individual.

According tol

the subject offered to make

—07-4/-30/65,

750 Northwest. 14th

Street, reported that a Cuban whom he did not know

him some weapons.

6th_Street.Miami_Elorida.

attempted to sell

the guns

that manufactured the then popular long-haired "funny"

dolls".

The subject was so employed at the time.

physical description of the unknown Cuban matches that

of the subject.

OTHER 4

-2 -

SEC

RETI

NW 45924 DocId: 32340390

Page

3

---

## Page 4

(SECRETI

MM 105-8988

The Miami Office is attempting to locate

LUIS POSADA, VARELO CASTRO, EVILIO ALPIZAR,

and MARIO ANTONIA GARCIA and question them concerning the

activities of the subject.

MM 1078-S is personally acquainted with

He has been instructed to intensify

his contacts with ANDRE and thereby become

acquainted with the subject.

The problem in this

regard, however, is a conflict in working hours.

Both ANDRE and the subject work a day shift

whereas MM 1078-S works a swing shift. (P)(M)

Upon his return to the Miami area MM 1070-S*

will again be encouraged to continue

wIth RAUL ANDRE and the subject. (li association

In this regard on 1/22/67, MM 1070-S*

advised that he had a long conversation with ANDRE

and the latter advised that his group had been

inactive recently,

mainly, because the entire local Cuban

section has quieted down considerably. @)C&>Ul

In addition to (MM 1070-s and MM 2078-5,

other sources in the Cuban field have been alerted

concerning the subject.

The Miami Office is contemplating complimenting

informant coverage with physical surveillances.

investigation to date, however, indicates that the

subject operates within a small

and close-knit group.

In such a situation, informants and physical surveillances

may not be sufficient to detect the activities of the

subject.

In view of the above the Miami Office is

requesting Bureau authorization to contact the

Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company to

obtain long-distance charges to his telephone.

- 3 -

(SECREN

NW

15924

DocId: 32340390

Page 4

---

