# docid-32307112

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/5/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10291-10252

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-1ST NR 18

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, SJ

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/28/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

MR, AFFIL, JURE, ACA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

06/11/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

HW 45937

29

DocId: 32307112 Page 1

---

## Page 2

5196. Bja/gil

DECLASSIFIED

TIONAL FORM NO.

10-104-1

UNITED STATE

Memoru..

MENT

TO

OLN

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-114543)

DATE:

11/28/62

FROM :

SAC, SANJUAN (105-6242) (P)

SUBJECT:

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

Cuban Revolutionary Board) (JURE)

ATT. INFORMATION CONTA?MET

HEREIN IS US

FIED

ERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

ReSJ

letter and letterhead memorandum to

the Bureau, 10/10/62.

PSI

(protect), characterized

as reliable, advised on 10/11/62, he recently made a

trip to Chicago, Washington, D.c., and Miami in connectior

nath is psiness and cuban exile activities boring

this trip he talked with numerous Cuban exiles, including

MIRO CARDONA, in Washington,

D.Ch and Miami, Florida.

without exception, all contacted were strongly against

MANOLORAY. leader of JURE and stated they felt that

RAY Is doing more harm to the Cuban cause than good.

They

also stated no one will support him or his group.

also stated that the JURE will fail before it ever gets

started because of widespread feeling against RAY and

everything he stands for. (X)(U)

Periodic contact with Cuban sources of the

SJO failed to reveal any activity on the part of the

JURE in Puerto Rico since Its beginning at Juana Diaz

and Ponce, Puerto Rico, 9/15 and 16, 1962.

Information copies of this letter are being

furnished Chicago, Miami, and New York in view of their

interest in this matter.

San Juan will follow and report the activity

of the JURE.

FILED IN 10

ORIGINÄL COPY

Classifie b 5P8 B1J/gel

Bureau

Chicago

1

- Miami (Info)

(InfO) PROPPIATE AGENCIES

1

New York

CRETENS

1

- San Juan.

Af;

STIF

ZAVE

Зіновя

NOT RECORDED

162 DEC

6

1962

AMATION CONTANE

JLS: mev

(6)

DANE 5-13-94 BYSD 8 MAC/KS

radar

GODEC 10

OTHER 4

5811

NW 45937 DocId:32307112 Page 2

---

