# docid-32306400

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD. NUMBER:

124-10290-10040

RECORD_SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-256686-4

Released under the John

f. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NUT 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. NY

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/12/1975

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

OBA, FUG, ASSOC, BKG, MIL A/O TERRORIST ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

'NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/23/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

HH 53932

DocId: 32306400

Page 1

---

## Page 2

10 NAL FORM NO, 10

1973 EDITION

GSÄ

FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOV

NMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRET

DATE: MAY 1 2 1975

Paon W.t.,

SUBJECT:

Classified by

Declassify

72.

OADR

GUSTAVO BIENVENIDO MARIN Y DUARTE, aka CIA HAS NO- OBJECTION TO

IS - CUBA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

(00: NY)

GUStAVO MARiN

RELEASE' OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT, JM

ReMMlet captioned, "FRENTE NACIONAL de CUBA (INC), 6 18-47

IS - CUBA"

and MMlets'

dated 11/11/74; MMlet to New York, 12/17/74,

to the Director, 11/11/74 and 12/31/74 captioned, a

"ABDALA, IS - CUBA."

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 11 copies

of a LHM dated and captioned as above.

CONTAI

FIED

MARIN 1s the leader, of a group called ABDALA

and currently is the subject of a case entitled,

"GUSTAVO

BIENVENIDO MARIN Y DUARTE, aka ET AL, NEUTRALITY MATTERS -

CUBA, Bufile 2-2079, NYfile 2-641".

In this investigation, there are allegations

of terrorist activities planned by ABDALA and MARIN himself

which are allegedly to be directed against Cuban Diplomatic

personnel as well as representatives of countries voting

an international bodles in favor of cuba. (X) (U)

' The NYO feels that all pertinent data

on MARIN

D

concerning his alleged terrorist activities is being reported

-n this case file mentioned above and accordingly the NYO

is placing this matter in a closed status. UACB.

NY

The informants used An the enclosed InMare

T-l'is

MM

1337-S, NY T-2 Is SJ 775-S and NY T-3 1s

MM 974-S.

ERCLOSURE

2

Bureau

(Encis.

REC-28

11) (RM)

105-256686-4

1 - New York

Mia Trenca. 2) (205-22472) SIMID (RM)

JFC :msb

(4)

CIN, 55*

114

MAY 15 1,975

COPY TO NAG-2

FOR INFO 5/287

ZIBY VIN/rjm.

copies mader

N:5.29

Mando Avi la

CHQ by

STAB 4 HOUSE ALIT

1403(5ee Duf110 133-217290) HED

ORMATTON CONTAINED

*07K

Savings Bonds &

gularly on the Payroll Savin

Plan dona

SEC

RET!

CREWISE

G0G.10

14 53932

DocTd: 32306400

Page 2

---

## Page 3

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

HERET

UNITED

STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. .

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York

MAY 1 2 1975

'SECRET

Gustavo Bienvenido Marin y Duarte, also known as

Internal Security - Cuba

Gustavo Marin Duarte, advised that he is also an officer of

NT T-3, a Cuban exile, and currently associated with t

Fallen

bombings in Jamaica, Spain, Mexico, France and London in 1974.

This source describes Marin as

s the national head of Abdala,

a cuban exile youth group with branches in the United States,

Europe and Latin America, and he further indicated Marin is

a school teacher who lives in New York City.

This source also

stated that. Marin is on the Executive Committee of the

1974 In Miami, Florida-to act as an

coordinate the activities of the different Cuban exile

this Information In the Fall of 1974.15 (W

revolutionary organizations in the United States. NY T-1 furnishe

On October 24, 1974, the Miami Herald, an English

language newspaper, published

daily in Miami, Florida, contained

an article stating

that the FNC had issued two booklets proclaiming

its members as rebels. One booklet set forth the rules involving

procedures and the other booklet set forth its statutes outlining

the group's organizational scheme and goals. The FNC preamble

stated that its members defy all authority and all laws except

those coming from the people of Cuba. The FNC said 1t constitutes

an open rebellion against any actions or laws issued against

their liberation efforts and disavow any type of authority

that

does not originate with the Cuban people.

On October 22, 1974, NY T-1 reported that Abdala

recently had withdrawn:

from the FNC-and the FLNC because of

a power struggle.

NY T-I said that among the influential

Cubans who are members of Abdala who had withdrawn from the

Classified

Declassify

326

AT MAYO

gel

This

document contains neather recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the

property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your

agency.

ISPCRET

Alite, 256686-4

HH 53932

DocTd: 32306400

Page 3

---

