# docid-32301386

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

: Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10278-10221

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-314

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 06/27/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/29/1998

LCN, GIAMARINO, JOSEPH, MEMBER, DEMINO, MICKEY

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32301386

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

Teaseu

under the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 191 USC 2Tur Hotey.

DÁTE :

11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

•UNITED STATES GO

‹NMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

6/27/63

FROM

SAC, NEW YORK

(92-2731) 0

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH GIAMARINO aka Little Joey

AR

pr

"THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION, ET AL;

Re Bureau letter to NY, 1/28/63, captioned,

AR - CONSPIRACY"

2/8/63,

captioned, "LA CAUSA

This investigation was

Investigation was Behed

pened to determine if

JOSEPT

GIAMARINO aka "Little Joey"

= Was a member of "La

Causa

''Nostra"

Duping the period 6/21 - 20/57, NY 169-C advisea

that MICKEY DE MINO aka "Mickey the Leech" "made" during

the previous week an individual named JOSEPH GIAMARINO

aka

"Little Joey"

GIAMARINO, according to intormant was

There one a member o the same "combination"

DE VITO. Informant advised GIAMARINO was working

for DE MINO as a controller in his numbers operation.

NYO Indices reflect no information concerning any

JOSEPH GIAMARINO other than that set forth above.

Records

of NYCPD and Credit Bureau of Greater New York fail to

reflect any information concerning GIAMARINO.

In addition,

Detectives CHARLES BARTELS and JOSEPH MC NEELY, Brooklyn

South Homicide Squad, advised SA MAX R. FRITSCHEL on 5/28/63,

that they are acquainted with both DE MINO and DE VITO and

have known them for some years, but have never known any

JOSEPH GIAMARINO to be associated with them.

Inquiries by

Detective BARTELS among his associates in NYCPD concerning

GIAMARINO were also negative.

Bureau

New York

(92-2731)

MRF : vmc

(4)

REC-10 92-6054-314

+8-138 80 1121

1963

142

BJUL8

1963

DocId: 32301386 Page 2

---

## Page 3

leased under the Jehn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 210% Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

N$2

92-2731

NY 3461-C-TE and NY 3864-C-TE both advise

they are acquainted with DE MINO and advise he is a

member of "La Causa Nostra"

:. In addition, NY 3461-C-TE

had advised he knows of a "Little Joey"

the MAGLIOCCO "family", however, this

identified as JOSEPH VITACCO.

In view of the fact that NY 169-0 1s not a

member of "La Causa Nostra"

, since he has not furnished

any information concerning GIAMARINO since 1957, and since

GIAMARINO is unknown to informants who are members of

"La Causa Nostra" and who are acquainted with GIAMARINO's

alleged associates, this investigation is considered as

closed by the NYO at this time.

In the event GIAMARINO

is identified or any further information is received by

the NYO, which would indicate membership in

"La Causa

Ngstra"

, this will immediately be reopened.

-2

7J8-10991

DocId: 32301386

Page 3

---

