# docid-32286498

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10274

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-12-335

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/12/1962

5

CIP, LAY-OFF, BASKETBALL BETTING, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32286498 Page 1

---

## Page 2

REC: 52

FBI.

Date: 3/12/62

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or codé)

AIRTEL

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS: DIVISIONI

Re: Dallas airtel 3/5/62.

Re:

SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka

IGA (DL 162-129) .

On 3/7/62, DL-95-C advised that on 3/6/62 he had

seen LITTLE coming out of the cleaning shop operated by

ISADORE MAX MILLER (DL: 162-96). On 3/9/62 information

received from DL-144-C* concerning ISADORE MILLER accepting

taken that day.

OTHER 4

Re: RUSSELL DOUGLAS MATTHEWS

AR. (DL 92-213)

On 3/6/62, PCI L_

advised that on

3/5/62 MATTHEWS had traded in his 1957

Chevrolet and had

purchased a 1962. white over red Oldsnobile, Texas PD: 6361.

PoT furnished MATTHEWS Dallas residence as 4509 Southern,

phone LA 8-6446. PCI stated subject was operating as a

RI: 8-2739. Above information furnished to Lt. JACK REVILL,

Dallas PD and Dep. Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas SO, on 3/7/62.

3

2 Bureau

1

- Las. Vegas (Info)

1

- Dallas

(165-129) *13

1

- Denver (Info)

- Dallas.

(92-213)

CUBINS

1

-

Dallas (137-1123)

1

1

Dallas (87-9733)

1

Dallas

(94-48)

Dallas (92-222)

1

- Dallas

: (94-55A-SUB)

- Dallas (162-109)e tidy

RMB/11

1

1. 1

Dallas

(162-37)

(18)

62-9-12

Dallas. (162-95)

1

-

Dallas

(162-96)

EX-116 2

1-

Dallas

(162-179)

1 - Dallas

(162-1)

33%

16 MAR 15 1962

5

8

JUN 5

196

ph

Approved:

Sent

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

G 0u Wick

"NW 45760 DocId: 32286498 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 94-55A-SUB

Re: RICHARD LEE BLANKENSHIP, aka. -

FUGITIVE

BAIL: JUMPER, ITSP (DL 87-9733)

On 3/10/62, Lt, FRANK CORNWALL, Special Service Bureau,

Dallas PD, advised he had received information from an usually

reliable informant that fugitive BLANKENSHIP was hiding out

in a motel located on Highway 114 some place between Dallas

and Grapevine, Texas, with his brother ELVIS' RAY BLANKENSHIP

(DL 92-222) .

Re:!

ALBERT MEADOWS, aka.

IGA (DL 162-109)

On 3/6/62, PCI

stated

that MEADOWS was associated withI

in the operation of

a private club in Ellis County, Texas, about two miles from

Olvilla, Texas, during a period of several months prior to the

investigation bya State Legislative Committee at Beaumont,

Texas.

He stated this club catered to poker and dice players,

and that AL MEADOWS was to furnish the players. According to

PCI, MEADOWS and PCI were not making any money in the club

änd when the State investigating committee started cleaning

up Beaumont,

Texas, PCI told MEADOWS he (MEADOWS) was "too

Texas, where

to continue to be mated me perm Ellie cour

Thad made his living gambling for years.

According to PCI, HARDY HAY, a close associate of his,

assisted in the operation of this club... PCI stated that he

has no knowledge of MEADOWS! current gambling activities,

but suspects he is still engaged in such activities in the

Dallas area.

Re:

JOHN ELI STONE, aka.

IGA (DL 162-37) ;

HENRY CLINTON WINFREY, aka.

IGA (DL 162-95) ;

ISADORE MAX MILLER, aka.

IGA (DL 162-96)

WINFREY continues to use telephone company credit

card: #342-2182K152 in making long distance telephone calls,

none of which have been outside the State of Texas.

OTHER 4

2

NW 45760 DocId: 32286498 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 3/6/62, upon receipt of the basketball line by

WINFREY at approximately 1pm, contact was immediately made

with JOHN ELI STONE by MILLER to ascertain from STONE whether

he desired them to put out the line with certain changes from

the way it was received.

On 3/7/62, MILLER indicated that WINFREY had gone to

Hot Springs to the races and that he,

MILLER, was handling

the: basketball operation by himself at Apt. 104, 3434 Navajo,

Dallas. On 3/8/62, MILLER indicated that JOHN ELI STONE WaS

not at Hot Springs

but was in Dallas, Texas and it appeared

that MILLER was in telephonic contact with STONE on that date.

On 3/10/62 WINFREY was back at Apt. 104, 3434 Navajo Dr.,

carrying on bookmaking operations. He indicated he had been

offered another job by someone who was willing to pay him as

contact indicated he had been

much as he was receiving: from JOHN ELI STONE.

Re: GAMBLING ACTIVITIES -

DALLAS DIVISION

• (DL 162-1)

On 3/6/62, DL-141-PCI advised SA ROBERT P. GEMBERLING

that he had heard that another gambling raid was being planned

for Dallas, Texas within the near future, similar to the raids

conducted by the Dallas PD on 12/20/61 which resulted in the arrest

of approximately 19 persons. / PCI stated he understood these

raids were going to be carried out by some State investigating

committee similar to the one which "cleaned up Beaumont".

On

3/7/62, LT. JACK REVILL, Special Service Bureau, Dallas PD

advised SA GEMBERLING that he had been in contact with a State

official at Austin, Texas on 3/5/62, at which time he was:

informed that harassment-type gambling raids for Dallas were

being considered with local, county, state and interested

federal agencies to be apprised of them prior to the actual

raids.

Lt. REVILL stated

I only about 3 people even knew of the

fact that such raids were being considered and that they were

only in the initial planning stage.

Lt. REVILL stated that his

superior, Capt. PAT GANNAWAY, Special Service Bureau, Dallas

PD, was not in favor of conducting harassment-type raids but

desired to wait until a case could be made. Lt. REVILL stated

he would keep the Dallas FBI Office advised of any contemplated

raids.

The San Antonio Office was requested by separate

communication to endeavor to ascertain further details through

appropriate liaison at Austin, being extremely careful not

to divulge the identity. of informant or the fact that Lt. REVILL

had verified that such raids were being considered.

"NW 45760 Docid: 32286498 Page

4

---

## Page 5

DL 94-55A-SUB

DL-149-C/advised SA JOSEPH M. MYERS on 3/11/62 that

he had heard

from,some of his reliable sources among gambling

element that WILL WILSON, Attorney General, State of Texas, had

places, which he did.

Re: GIIF, Fort Worth, Texas

(DL 94-48)

DL-149-C advised SA JOSEPH. M. MYERS on 3/11/62 that

he has heard from some of his associates that some of the

hoodlum element in Denver, Colo, is buying up milk companies

all over the United States. DL-149-C said that he did not have

any further information as to identities of the people involved

or the companies involved.

NW 45760 DocId: 32286498

Page

5

---

