# docid-32297206

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColLection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10218-10482

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

HQ

92-6436-24

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

08/01/1963

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

APR, LOCAL 1730, INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMENS

ASSOCIATION, ASSOC, MISUR, CONTIN, ROOM 901, 265

WEST 14TH STREET, NY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

DocId: 32297206

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 144 05C 2107 Hote).

/BATES 11-14-2017

raise beco

FD-143 (12-28-60)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

JNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

:Director, FBI

(Bufile

92-6436

JUNE

DATE:

8/1/63

SAC, New York (92-2568)

SUBJECT: JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

CORNELIUS J. NOONAN

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

NY 92-2568

Symbol Number

V1 31 10-0

Type of Surveillance:

technicaL

Microphone)

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Local 17.30, International Longshoremen's Association

2. Address where installation made. Also give

exact room number or area

covered:

ROOM 901, 265 West 14th Street, NYC

3. Location of nonitoring plant:

NYO

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Authorization 7/27/62; 8/24/62

Installation 10/24/62

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

NONE

X.:

6. If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

a..

Is a trunk line utilized? …

NO

EX: 104

b. Is the

surveillance on a switchboard?

NO !/U

113r-

c. Is the surveillance on a public dof-operated telephone? No

Laureau (92-6436) (Registered

21

1-New York (92-2568)

12 AUG € 1963

GPR: MGH (2,)

DONG

-DocId: 32297206

RM.

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

..

NY 92-2568 - JUNE

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

NO

NO

7. If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

One in 44A block

Is the installation part of a tel-mike?

of the combination:

If so, give symbol of other side

NONE

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

See page 2A

10. Could above information have been obtained from other, sources and by other

means?

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None Known

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

NO

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

NO

14: Cost of Plant Premises:

NA

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at same plant.

NA

-2-

DocId: 32297206 Paye 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-2568 = JUNE

9.

indicated:

Informant furnished the following information on dates

On 5/6/63, information concerning FRANK SCIREMAMMANO,

subject of NY 15-25416.

Informant advised that SCIREMAMMANO discussed

with CONNIE NOONAN and AUSTIN FUREY the fact he had been arrested

by the FBI, that he had denied previous arrests to the "Feds", whereas

he had a previous record, and that he believed the "stool pigeon" who

"framed" him did not know him personally.

On 5/7/63, information re JOHN JAMES NORTON, subject of

NK 15 case, FBI #62676E, and re EDDIE MC GRATH, NY 92-667, and FRANK

"SONNY" CAMPBELL, NY 9-2247.

Re NORTON, informant advised

that

NOONAN described NORTON to TEDDY GLEASON as "Nunzy's friend" and that

NORTON tried to "bolt into (local) 560" (IBT). NOONAN indicated he

would not bother with NORTON except that NOONAN has been put under

some sort of pressure.

Re MC GRATH and CAMPBELL, informant advised that BERNIE

(LNU) asked NOONAN, "how's the big

fellow, EDDIE?". NOONAN's answer

was inaudible. NY 1716-C has advised in the past that the term

"big fellow" is used among NOONAN's associates when referring to EDDIE

MC GRATH. BERNIE (LNU) and NOONAN then discussed SONNY CAMPBELL'S

arrest by the FBI. NOONAN remarked that the best CAMPBELL could hope

for would be a hung jury.

On 5/15/63, information re TEDDY GLEASON discussing the

fact that TONY PROVENZANO and JIMMY HOFFA attempted to intercede in a pendins

local 1730 ILA strike because it would "louse up" the Teamsters.

On 5/22/63, information re comments of CONNIE NOONAN and

AUSTIN FUREY re the

arrest of BUSTER BELL and the fct that JIMMY HOFFA

should pay for BELL's trial expenses because BELL "did it for him".

On 5/28/63, and 6/6/63, information re TONY PROVENZANO

and WALTER GLOCKNER Murder, NY 72-164, NK 72-58. On 5/28/63, NOONAN in

discussing the then current TONY PROVENZANO trial and the GLOCKNER

murder, remarked that whoever did the murder, was not a friend of TONY

PRO's and that it never should have happened

while PRO was on trial.

informant's opinion that NOONAN was not so much referring to

the fact that a man was murdered but that the timing of the murder

was inappropriate for TONY PRO.

On 6/6/63, NOONAN, FUREY, GLEASON and two unknown individuals

discussed the TONY PRO trial and the murder of GLOCKNER. NOONAN remarked

that he was "in Hoboken that day when it happened and got told by some-

body that he was in that car".

This was in answer to a remark by one

of the two unknown individuals to the effect that "he's been identified

being in the car --- him an a fellow by the name of WALSH, (sounds

-z0-

DocId: 32297206 Page 4

---

