# docid-32308812

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10296-10140

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 92-5389-147

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: FARABEE, MAURICE F.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/25/1972

9

NRO, ASSOC, ERRA, PASQUALE MICHAEL, ARRESTED, BKG,

DESCR, P/P, EMP, RES, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32308812

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wyler the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 14-147917-0,

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTINE OFFICE

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

PASQUALE MICHAEL ERRA; aka.

DATE

• 5/25/72

REPORT MADE BY

MAURICE F.

FARABEE

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

2/9/72 - 5/8/72

TYPED BY

jky

AR

REFERENCE

Report of SA ANDRE N. FORTIER, dated 2/9/72, at Miami.

-P-

LEAD

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will continue investigation regarding activities

of subject.

CONVIS AUTO:

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

LE NONE

RECOVERIES

AFFROYED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIEEMADE:

3) - Bureau| (92-5389)

1 - Departmental Attorney DOUGALD

MC MILLAN,

MIAMI, FLORIDA

5

- Miami

(2 - 92-648)

(1 - 165-992

- ERRA)

(1

183-9 - ERRA)

(1 - 179-283 - ERRA)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Ліст!

Request Recd.

- .....

1al6 Fwd.

How livel.

By

_CC, AAG, Criminal

-Division, Organized Crime

& Racketsering Section...

room.-

879

223

55JUN 9 1972

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32308812 Page 2

ACQUIT.

TALS

CASE HAS.BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES ENO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

CrES 257 NO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-5389-147

7 MAY 30 1972 4

REC-4

202

STARSEEN

soples made c

eval

тлее

Kamen

For reviewat BIHQ by

HSCA ro2z/22/2request.

(See Buffle #62-117290)

/+: 1.1.445.061

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-648

ADMINISTRATIVE

Captioned matter exceeds the normal reporting

period, however, investigation has been maintained current

through the Miami Division and interoffice communications.

On 2/11/72, NK 3106-C-TE advised AL ROSATÖ was then

on a month's vacation with his wife in the Miami, Florida area.

While on vacation he planned to visit PATSY ERRA on business

and socially.

On 3/15/72,j

NK 3106-C-TE advised PATSY ERRA (subject)

met socjally with ALR

OSATO, JOSEPEXROSATO,

"BUSTERWALUT and

JOSEPH CORRAO.

The gathering took place at the Casa

Santino:

Restaurant. Also present at the restaurant was TOMMY EBOLI,

PATSY EBOLI and SAVERIO EBOLI.

On 4/12/72,

NK 3106-C-TE advised that PATSY ERRA USES

the Fontainebleau Hotel in setting up various gambling games,

shylock deals and various other

• illegal activities controlled by

him and his group.

NORMAN ROTHMAN is a key contact man for.

ERRA, having replaced the

recently deceased MAXY RAYMOND.

ERRA

can operate at this hotel with complete immunity through the

owner, BEN NOVAK.

In addition,

the source related ERRA has

several hidden telephones at the Fontainebleau which he uses in

regard to the mentioned activities.

On 3/20/72,

former MM 1401-C-TE advised it was recently

learned PASQUALE "PATSY" ERRA had determined that VINNIE ALOI,

head of the Colombo Group in New York, would be in Miami during

the latter part of March, 1972, and while in Miami, ALOI is

expected to sit down with other hoodlum bosses from Florida and

New York to discuss their gambling and shylock businesses in the

respective localities.

Caution should be taken with the above information

emanating from sources

due to the singular nature of the

information furnished in order not to compromise these sources.

The information should not be included subsequently in form

suitable for dissemination.

_ B# -

COVER PAGE

DocId:32308812 Page 3

---

