# docid-32322066

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10378-10224

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3816

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : DL

TITLE :

DATE: 06/05/1998

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/11/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32322066 Page 1

456

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

(12/31/1995)

434

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence:

PRIORITY

Date: 06/05/1998

To:

Dallas

Attn: Shawna Kay Maynard

From: Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force, Rm.

11144

Contact:

Catherine

L.

Lamey, Ext. 6185

Approved By: Keeley CarolI lk lur

Drafted By: Lamey Catherine

3816

Case ID #: 62C-HQ-1029205- (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection

Act of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis: Dallas is requested to conduct a search for references

to Mike Howard, and for references to threats or attempts on the

life of Special Agent James P. Hosty, Jr., and to forward any

locuments located as a result of that search to the JFK Task

Force as soon as possible due to an extremely short deadline.

Details: Pursuant to the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 (JFKARCA) any material considered

assassination records must be made available to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) in their original

form.

The JFK Task Force requests that Dallas conduct a

search of all indices for any reference to:

Mike Howard

Threats or attempts on the life of Special Agent James

P. Hosty, Jr.

(Mike Howard was a Secret Service agent who may have

reported an alleged attempt by Lee Harvey Oswald to kill Special

Agent Hosty •)

The JFK Task Force requests that Dallas forward an EC

confirming the search results, and provide any documents located

during the

search, to the JEK

Task

• Force by C.o.B. 06/05/98.

DocId: 32322066- Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Dallas

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re:

62C-HQ-1029205, 06/05/1998

LEAD (S)

Set Lead 1:

TO Dallas

AT Dallas

Dallas should conduct a search of all indices for the

following subjects: Mike Howard; threats or attempts on the life

of Special Agent James P. Hosty, Jr. Dallas should forward an EC

confirming the search results and any documents located as a

result of this search to: HQ/JFK Task Force, Attention:

Catherine L. Lamey, Room 11144 as

soon

as possible.

The results should be received no later than c.o.B.

06/18/98. If you have

any questions, please call Catherine Lamey

at (202) 324-6185.

cc 1 - Carol L. Keeley, Room 11144

1 - LuAnn Wilkins, Room 11144

1 - Catherine L. Lamey, Room

11144

DocId: 32322066

Page 3

---

