# docid-32299347

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10225-10127

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-114543-168

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/08/1964

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

JURE, BKG, MRRI, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32299347

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES IT+14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106-03

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

-ERNMENT

Memorandum

FROM

SUBJECT:

CONTAINED

RIED-

SH

ALI INFORMA

HEREID ID D

OSHLEWISE

oi: OADR /8/85

MACKSK

triassified

Declassity

5p8

SECRET

Director, FBI (105-114543)

SAC, Miami (105-6661)

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA

(JURE)

(CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY JUNIA) ;

IS - CUBA.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

7/8/64

DECLASSIFICATICN AND/OR

(RELEASE OF CIA IT ORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

EXCEPT BRACHOTS CA

KH 2-6-9810

105-107868 (Pryle)

ReBulet to Miami 6/4/64, in the above captioned,

which referred to Miami letter dated 5/18/64, captioned, •

"IRVING RICHARD POYLE, PSI - CUBA."

The Miami letter to

the Bureau enclosed a Photo-

stat of a letter from POYLE, postmarked April 14, 1964, in

Mexico City, which was ultimately received by CIA, Miami,

and copy made available to the Miami FBI Office.

utilized

Inasmuch as former PSIPOYLE is presently being

DVI3

P°0*

GIATE

pected to be

released in the near future. Mr. KRAVCOV/Stated

he had no objection to the Interview of CARLOS GOVANTES

ins

connection with the information furnished by (POYLE eoncern-

ing MANUEL RAY, but he requested that such an interview be

conducted without making any reference to FOYLE]Sor without

reference to the specific information that MANUEL RAY was

accustomed to making telephone calls from GOVANTES' house

in Cuba. 674,

2 - Bureau (RM)

2

- Kansas City

(-2) - "New orleans

1 - Miami

(RM)

(RM)

MIA

LEV INT

I.THT

105-114542-168 wils

1 JUL 9

1964

2-24-98

PY FITA

(7)

EL DECLASSIFY ON: 20X

CORT

72 JUL 151981

SECRETI

(JFK)

NAT

AVER ST

SIDEFOR

CLAESDFICATION

ACh TON

DocId: 32299347 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CoLjection Act of 7992 144 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRETI

MM

105-6661

Mr. KRAVcovadded that the reliability of FOYLE]S)

is regarded as completely indefinite. (5702

With respect to CARLOS GOVANTES,

Mr. KRAVCOVEd-

vised that records of his office reflect that one CARLOS

GOVANTES PEMBERTON, born January 10203

engineer, had been issued a U. S. identification document,

Number 12 429 601, at San Juan, Puerto Rico, sometime prior

to August, 1963.

Also, records indicated GOVANTES had

travelled from Miami, Florida, to Santiago, Chile, on August

21, 1963. Further, during the period March to July, 1963,

GOVANTES made trips between Dutch Guinea and Trinidad,

Puerto Rico and Trinidad, Trinidad and Venezuela, and

Jamaica and Trinidad. The nature of these trips was not

known.

The current whereabouts of GOVANTES are not known

to the CIA office, Miami. 61292

Indices of the Miami Office are negative on CARLOS

and HENRY GOVANTES.

On June 25, 1964, a check of the records at the

office of the U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service

(INS) , Miami, resulted negatively with reference to CARLOS

GOVANTES .

Saint Charles Hotel in New Orleans, Louisiana.

The Bureau, in reBulet, has instructed that effort.

be made to locate CARLOS GOVANTES and interview concerning

MANUEL RAY, based on the allegations received from PSI. POYLE.

The following information, as received from POYLE,

should be set forth in letterhead memorandum form by that

- 2-

SECRED

993-10191

DocId: 32299347 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act OT 1992(44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017_

SECRED

MM 105-6661

office which will conduct interview of CARLOS GOVANTES.

The allegations of POYLE are not being set forth in LHM

form by Miami for the reason that they are completely un-

corroborated and, since they were received by CIA, it is

not deemed advisable that Bureau letterhead be utilized

to reflect the allegations without the attendant interview

of GOVANTES.

The following, to be classified Secret because of

its receipt from CIA, is the form in which the information

from PSI porLe may be placed for LiM/purposes:

In April, 1964, MM. I-1, another Government

agency which conducts intelligence investigations,

advised that a source, whose reliability has not

been established, had furnished the following in-

formation concerning Manuel Ray, the leader of JURE:

MEMBER OF SUBJECT ORGANIZATION

Ray claims to have ancestors who were Puerto

Rican, and for this reason claims to have a right

to involve himself in Puerto Rican affairs. Ray

was very friendly with members of a Puerto Rican

group which engaged in a plot to assassinate former

(5-4(5)

renovated, Ray had contact with Puerto Ricans engaged

in that work. Ray used

to make many telephone calls

to the United States and particularly to Washington,

D. C., while he still lived in Cuba. However, he did

not care to make the calls from his own home.

He used

to make, such calls from

the home of a young Cuban named

Carlos. Govantes. Govantes works as an architect and

may presently live in Kansas City. Missouri, and is

probably employed by the Klipper Company there. Govantes

(SHES)

SECRETI

- 3-

DocId: 32299347 Page 4

---

