# docid-32286424

## Page 1

| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2101 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10195-10200

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2098

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/07/1967

2

SGI, SUR, ACT, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286424 Page 1

104

---

## Page 2

Leased uniler the tohn Fa Kennedy

Assassination Records collection Act of 1992

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY" I8g2 EDiTION

5010-107-02

AFPROPRIATE AGENCIES

NO TTEED ONFICES

ROUTINE

UNITED STATES GOV

MENT

-dIP (S) OF

Memorandum

Uste

TO

MATI

"DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171).

AF

SHE REY

SIDI

ARSE

CLASS

DATE: 9-7-6Z0TIÔN

TES

,EGAT, MEXICO (92-13) : (P)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

M.

SI

GIANCANA,.

aka

DATE

*LASSIFIED DECISIONS FINALIZED

8ind

ABERVIEW CONCERTRE (DRO),

Remyairtel

*5-1-67. D

210

90P/ BRE

EXFAIPT FRON GAS

TEGORY

DATE OF DECLAUSAFICAIION INDES LUITE

ssified by

mation in the past,

"passenger manifests for the month of August; 1967, for Varig,

Western and Mexicana Airlines, the only three airlines

furnishing service from California to Mexico, and could

locate

no record for the Subject or for BERGIT CLARK.

He is now

reviewing records of flights from Arizona to Mexico City

Continuing contact wit

lexico City sury

lance

informants MEX-42 and MEX-196,

MEX-25 and

MEX-55

lave pro

duced

no further information

as to Subject's activities.

Review of their

surveillance

IndICaTeC

the following

items of possible interest:

Aside from the regular checks of the golf club in

Cuernavaca, they also checked the Hotel Posada Jacarandas,

which has a small six-hole pitch and putt course, with negative

results.

They have also been checking the Club de Golf

other golf courses in Mexico City with negative results

REVIER

On 8-3-67, they observed a washing

bein

delivered to the house at Nubes No. 2 in Cuernavaca

On various occasions they

Shepherd dog inside this reside

arous occasion the erod a large dorman

The staff of the hous

ippears

to consist of three:

girls and a major domo named FEL

IX, who is also called "CHINO.

TeN CONTAINED

ЗЬACУТ

5

Padad

tr.i

REC- 25

ASSIFIED

Bureau

(1 - Liaison Section)

3 93/1422:09

• SHON

1 - Mexichicago l

92-34911234

DECL

FIED B

T(8 Sio/bee

RSC : wr

ALT, INFORMA

(6)

JOT\EV *

HEREIN

ROM, CDIS

9-14-6718

FIX EMPT

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan.

59SEP 281967

DocId: 32286424

Page 2

---

