# docid-32350692

## Page 1

Date: 12/23/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10074-10370

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Assassination Recorda

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53199 Date:

06-08-2017

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : WITHHELD

TO : WITHHELD

TITLE : WARREN, SUSAN.

DATE: 11/08/1967

PAGES

4

SUBJECTS : BACKGRND INFO

RICHARD FRANK

SUSAN FRANK

WARREN,

SUSAN

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED wITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 02/10/94

COMMENTS: JFK16 : F23: 1994.02.10.15:04:58:810028

- . .=--

[R]

'- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10074-10370

HH 53199

DooId: 32350692

Page

---

## Page 2

0009-16922

10. auG )i

july 28, 2971.

chao-mina

4 celladle source has advised by. 2u,

May Chine News Agency,

Ottawa,

Unat

on June

1971 Pu was contactad by Susan

HARROM advised PU that

she would come to Cotews on dune

she had "some interesting things!

19;

1071 as

to talk over

with him.

2.

On June 19; 1971 source advised that

Susan WARREN arrived

In douala and was met st

che Airporo by 2U, Chao-nan.

Source was unable

to supply any infraction concerning

the meeting

between

i and

WARREN.

3.

Source

indicased that following the

meeting WAnnaN was driver do the airport by

• PU

where she departed Obtana.

09669

Sten Wirense

NH 53199 DocId: 32350692 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CLORET

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

8 HOT

2X1815

Subjoot: WARREN, Susan

: I. One Susan M. WARRiNi ala Susan FRANK aka Mildred Susan FRAiT

, Dee HEILIGNAN, posebly Identifiable with Subject, was born in New Yorks,

She claims to be a free lance wilter.

I. Jo Ou 8 November 1913 Of Ruanian parentso, As 0l April 1965, she

resided with her second hushand, Richard Cyrdl FRANK at 110 Christopher

Street, Now York, N. I. He was born 22 August 1922 In Hochester, N.Y.

2. 14 April 1965...

•There aro reports as early as 1942

providing information on Susan IRANK's activities on behalf of Conmulen,

all of which refer to her as Susan or Sue Warren, the allas she has commonly

used in her Conmunist activities and in the articles she has written. In

1942 she was chairnan of the CP 12th Assembly District, 132 I. 26th Sto,

NYC. Her occupation la given ao writer and lecturer. She has been

doscribed as having been well-trained In Far Bastern alfairs and bas

taught at the faculty School of Social Sciences and Jefferson School of

Social Sciences, conducting courses entitled, "The New Chirat, "The

Chinese Communès, " "On the Correct Handling of Contradictions (MAO), "' otco

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993

GIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

In June 1959, she was nominated to the latin American Sub-Committen of the

Internat1o2a1 Affairs and Peaco Cormission, CPUSA. In Novenber 1959,

she and her husband went to Commoist

chins, where she had been Invited

to work on the "Deking Revlew" (a magazine prblished for dissemination

outside China) for two sears. As of June 1961, the FRANKS were back 1a

New fork, bating returned ila the USSR. In July 1962, SUsaL HRANK

was reported to be a member of the foreign Committeo, CrUSA. She co

ducted a class entitled "Ino Roal China" during Augast 1962 at the N. Y.

School for Marxist Studies. She and her husband have bean in contact

09620

with Charles Joseph (Bob) All and his wifo, RoseMarie COE, Who reportedly

- 1-

---

## Page 4

-SECRE

Charles COE was & mambor of the CPUSA Farm Commission

sided with China in the USSRachina disputegy Susan FRANKhAs beOn

suspected of being a Commuist agent.

3. 1 Dac, 1965. alichard I'RAiT Was employed as a free lagoo

assistant airector out of Iocal 161, Motion Picture As8t. Directore

and Script Clerks Union. Reportedly, he had not been working regularly

and was receiving financial help from his mother. In May 1964, ho

was reportedly in Ganeva, Switzerland. In August 1964, he reportedly

travelled through the southern part of the U.S. and he and Susan FRANK

postponed trip to Mexico.

4. 25 Jan. 1966. Richard FRANK advised Milton I. ROSEN that

his wife was in Paris. Richard said that she had requested that ROSM

(who was from New York, and President of the Progressive labor Party (PLP))

send her "about 100 more of the now folders on the case and also "the

Nation"' article". Richard also told ROSEN that she had seen "a lot of

different people" on her trip. (ROSEN had been expelled from the

CPUSA for assertedly following the Chinese Conmunist line).

5. 7 Feb. 1967. In December 1966 Susan FRANK reported to be

contimplating a trip to Casablanca in North Africa. On 22 December 1966

left the U.S. for Iondon, and returned to the U.S. on 10 Jan. 1967.

Richard FRANK returned to the U.S. on 14 Jan 1967. Sasan FRANK had an

appointment to mect YOKO MATSUOKA, & Japanese writer, on 10 June Sex 1966.

She was contacted by William F. ASH when he was in the U.S. ASH is reportedly

associated with a British organization called Sociaty for Anglo-Chinese

Understanding. David CROOK, Instructor at the Institute of Foreign

IAnguages, Peking, China, Mas All Swan F'RiNK's houseguest 1n HoT, 1966e.

Susan I'RANK participated 1n "Jeach-in" at City College of NY on 25 Feb 1966,

-2- SE

DocId: 32350692

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SECRET

and later at Colundia University. She taught courses at bree University

Of IT. She lectured at tho Cadre School of the PIP. She spoke at

Marylend Unlversity on 10 November 1966, and was scheduled to spoak

to & ETOUp Of Iranian students In the U.S. Under the sane, Ilsa ARMAND,

Susan FRANK wrote articles published in "Challenge" a publication of

the PIP. She reportedly was 1n frequent contact with James and Ann Ina

of the "China Dally News", With Ira GOLLOIN, Maud RUSSELL, WilliaN I. HINTO.

and Rose and Charles COE. She handles some business for Frederick To FIELD.:

She was reportedly in contact with Histoltlliam I. EPION (elected President

of PLP In 1965), Jacob ROSEN and Charles ROSHI (both of the PIP). She

wus reportedly at PIP National Cormittee neeting on 10 June 1966, and

reportedly presaat at a membership neeting of the PliP on 15 October 1966:

6. 4 Aug. 1967.... While Richard FRANK wes In Paris, l'rance

(17 May and 18 May 1964, and 27. Dec. and 28 Doc. 1966) he was 1n contact

with Olga PRIMUL, an artists representative and with kegle BURGERON, Editor

in-Chief of a Marxist-Jeninist nowspaper. He war also in contact with

Willian MARX IPTON and Ira GOILOBIN •

* (NOTE TO PARAGRAPE 5 above: Maud KUSSELL wes guest lecturer at

an affair sponsored by the Fomen's Committee of the National Council of

American-Soviet Friondship, on 4 F'eb. 1960.

Esther GOLLOIF, wife of Ira GALLOBIN mentioned to Anton NOVAR

that her husband had joined the CP after she did.

Frederick FIND was associated with the American CP group In Mezico.

201088

D5B.13658

•!!

32064

19.

56631

a0t1

71826

dil

89841

8 NoT 1967

096>0

-3-

SEGRET

---

