# docid-32322718

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10380-10009

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 174-664-68

Released under the John

F. kennedy

ussassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USc 2107 Notel.

CaseR:NU 54027 Date:

78-24-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 04/05/1968

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

CARLOS ZARRAGA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/10/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54027

DocId: 32322718

Page 1

• 6

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MM 174-311

During

the

past week, a stink bomb was placed

in the Dade County

are friends of

the

Auditorium by four Cuban women who

members of Cuban Power

This stink bomb

apparently

totally unrelated to the smoke bomb which was

recently placed in the Miami Beach Auditorium.

The identities

of these

four women

not known.

Fla

On April I,

1968,

CARLOS

source - cuba,.

advised SA ROBERT

a week

ago, RICARDO MORALES said he was responsible for the bombing

of the Specialized Services on January 25, 1968, fOr

which

he was arrested.

MORALES said that previously he had contacted

cuba

ENRIQUE

/HUERTAS, President Of the Cuban Medical Association

In Exile, and proposed certain anti-CASTRO activities and

requested money fron HUERTAS for these actities.

HUERTAS

did not say no

but started to

an unusual

way by

giving MORALES a code name and certain secret telephone

numbers

where MORALES could contact

him.

MORALES tOId HUERTAS it was necessary

for them to

stop commerce with

Cuba.

HUERTAS said he could do this:

through diplomatic means.

Later, MORALEs became discouraged because of

HUERTAS' lack of action and apparently started to

operate

on his own.

MORALES spent a month working on his alibi.

MORALES said he also, tOld FERVANDO PENABAZ all:

Flex

about his

activities and admitted he blew up the Specialized

Services.

Fla

said he was connected with

group of young.

Cuban exiles in Miam who are

anti-CASTRO activities.

This group is

called EJERCITO SECRETO

The members have had

no training in arms or explosives and have

had no

experience

in the use of military equipment.

However, they are

extremely

anxious for military or terrorist activities MORALES

has

formed a unity pact with this group.

MORALES complained that the FBI fOllows and

photographs him and now has him

documented as

a terrorist.

COVER

PAGE

NW 54027 DooId: 32322718 Page 2

---

