# docid-32310925

## Page 1

Released under the Join I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

0 151

DocId: 32310925

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE 1A

11-14-2017;

Ssination Records

RAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGAT

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC

COMMUNICATIONS SECTICA

AUG 10 1962

TELETYPE

992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

Mr. Tolson_

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Callahan.

Mr. Conrad.

Mr. DeLoad

Mr.

• Evans /

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan.

Mr.

Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Holmes.

Gandy

INFORMATION

CONTAINEU

DEFERRED

8-10-62

5-55 AM LJC

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

192-3171/

FRÒM SÁC,,

CHICAGO 192-349/

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, AKA, AR.

DAILY SUMMARY. CG SIX TWO FOUR ONE DASH C ADVISED

YESTERDAY THAT A PARTY WAS HELD AT THE SAHARA INN NORTH,,

MANNY SKAR-S ESTABLISHMENT, IN HONOR OF KEELY SMITH, ONE TIMES

PARAMOUR OF GIANCANA, WHO WAS APPEARING AT SAHARA NIGHTCLUB.

AMONG THOSE IN ATTENDANCE WERE GIANCANA-S CHAUFFER, JOHN

MATTASSA, FELIX ALDERISIO, MARSHALL CÁIFANO, FRANK QUOTE SKIPPY

END QUOTE CERONE, SKAR, FRANK BUCCIERI AND. OTHERS. (4) -

, ACCORDING TO INFORMANT, GIANCANA WAS SCHEDULED TO APPEAR EITHER

..AT THE PARTY OR LATER AT PEPE-S CLUB LOCATED NEAR THE SAHARA.

PHYSICAL SURVEILLANCE

FISUR CONDUCTED AT BOTH PLACES INDICATED THE PRESENCE OF THE

ABOVE, IN ADDITION TO NUMEROUS FEMALES, HOWEVER, GIANCANA WAS

NOT OBSERVED. IN CONNECTION WITH THE SAHARA, INFORMANT ADVISED

THAT SKIPPY CERONE, WHO RESIDES IN SCHILLER PARK, LOCATION OF

SAHARA, HAS MUCH TO SAY AS TO OPERATION OF THIS ESTABLISHMENT,

AND IS LIAISON WITH SCHILLER PARK AUTHORITIES. BUREAU WILL NOTE

THAT CERONE IS COUSIN OF JACK CERONE, CG TH, AND WAS OBSERVED

IN MIAMI BEACH LAST WINTER WITH OTHER CHICAGO HIT MEN. (U)

ARMED AND DANGERGUS

189

12-018 92=3

To RUGS 1962

835

END

AND HOLD 727

13 8 AUG 20 1962

DocId: 32310925 Page 2

---

