# docid-32338726

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/13/201

Identification Form

v.

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90143-10144

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

100-370750-NR

}

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE :

01/21/1942

PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

HERBERT BIBERMAN

JOHN HOWARD LAWSON

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

19.1

DocId: 32338726

11

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 714 05c 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

'THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

LOS ANGELES

LOS ANGEIES

FILE NO. 100.6769

DATE WHEN MADE

1/21/12

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

12/26-31/411

1/2-20/12

TITLE

REPORT MADE BY

do Ro VICARS

CHARACTER OF CASE

HORSERA BIBERMANS

JOHN RONARD LARSON®

INTENNAL SECURITY - R

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

STRICTLY CONFIDENEIAL

U BIBERAN da Important conforonoo ith loader of

San Franodgoo Fusaian Far Rollof and JANE LEADE

ALT INFCEENTION COMTAIMED

at Los Angelos home on December 28, 191. don-

MORE IN 19

VACLASSIFIED

fidontial conferengs of BIBRNMAN with fussian C

RACEPT WHE

Consul at Consulate disclosed. LAKSON and BIBER-

OTRAVISE

MAN in many joint conferences and attend various

meetinge at LAWSON'S hone.

Holosse of lussian

propoganda film In which RIBERIAN partloipated,

oltod and his ettondanoo and enthusiaem at another

(/10/87-8884

Diroctive of National Board, League of Amerloan

Writore to LAWSON and 100a1 Chapter Lolof, coumands

alalo to ovoporate nith IsLode: I.F.0. opon foruns.

and refugee groups. confidential information ra-

259418

coived re Cormunist courlor sotivitios of GALl

SONDERGAARD And JOIN HONARD LARSON and one KATHRYN

BURKR of Mextoo City and erroneous portions thereof

as disolosed by aurrent investigation noted.

BIBERIAN'S approval concerning the discharge of the

Tobal trossurer of the fussian Var Tollef Assoola-

tion sought by JANE MADE. Confidential memorandun

propared for CORLISS LANONT, National Chai man

S.C.So Ra by lational Souretary thoreof, nones

BIBERIAN and LANS% as proper contacts

Angolos area. Laboratory examination set out.

LET INFORMIRIOS CONTAINED

2/23/95

ARRET IN INCOROSIOTED EXCERS

Classified by SteleSSLDjude

F231S0.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPeCiAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Rectassily on: DADR(JAK)

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

100-370750-

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

SO Bureau

New York

San Fraroiaoo (Inlo)

2

Los Angeles

NOT

82

AUG

1950

LIl

ORIGINAL

100-24499-85

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

7-2084

DocId: 32338726 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ReLeased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107-Hote).

DATE: 12-11-2017

CONFRENTIAL

exists coneiderable opportunity for activity in

Follyrood. Our payments per month, aside fron

overhoad, anount to over $650.00 and the help of

Hollywood is decidedly needed in raining this quota.

I indioated that discussion was still going on con-

corning baale pointe of the Hollywood report end I

think I oar prophosy that basie points of the holly-

mood report will be adoptod as our polioy.

coinoides with much that vas already said here that

was not refloctod in any offiotal communication. One

misgiving about the report is that somo of the mombers

are not entirely convinced that Hollywood intende to

continue aotivity in a serious vay. The basis for.

this bellot is that so far we have seen no dues fron

lollywood.

What is Hollywood doing about that problen?

In your letter of Decembor 22nd you askod what our

polloy was of collaboration with othor refugoe com-

mittoes. No are not st present engagod in any joint

project.

No were considering taking part in a joint

projoot at the outbreak of the war but withdrew on the

following ground, (1) that the collaboration tendod

to inoreasa our obligatione to a great extent and

without any certalaty that income would koep pace

with our obligations. (2) that collaboration in the

past had had the offoot of outting down the amount

of money wo might have had had we run them alone.

(3) that the possibility of using funde for the

transportation of refugco vritero f'ron France has

practically coused to exist."

It would appoar that this lotter was in the neture of a

direstive and statement ofthe continuing polloy of the Loague of

Anerivan Writers, since it tu noted that FRED RINALDO, member of

the Hollywood Chapter, appeared at the Communiat Farty Sponsor

World Forum, 2200 West 7th Street, Los Angoles on Sunday, January

18, 19h2 and lestured on the subjoot "Hollywood and the World."

This is the first soreen writer to appear on this forum since 1t

started some monthe ago.

Furthor cooperation of the local chapter

and the rolation of subjoot iASON to the I.L.D., the I.W,0, und

the Refugee Writer Groups will be followed in this investigation

The attention of the Bureau 1e furthor invitod to the

roport of CNDI LA #20-1 dated January 3, 1942, which advines that

this Infoment has recoliod Information fron a confidential rollable

source to the offoot that there is a steady flow of subrorsive date

and intornation from Moxico City to Now York and roturn.

This in

formant further advices Rhad

this ta handled by a oourier system

ARCARTIA

80122-904045

DocId: 32338726 Page 3

---

