# docid-32271049

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2/5/2016

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10141-10245

RECORD SERIES : CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 13-18-01

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/13/1978

24

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

4ssass1nation Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased-NT 53080 Date:

06-01-2017

LANZ, PEDRO DIAZ

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE :

NOTES

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/02/1995

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 6

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32271049

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative Counsel

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Don Gregg

SA/DO/0

Tube: DX6-Green

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

EXTENSION

1133

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

149 14

NO.

DATE

H 14 AM 78

OLG 78-1065/1

13 March 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Mr. Stuititta

Chis conflit

2.

3.

6.

7.

Pee's 13;

143023 kr

Hopkes

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

He hatter

x 1949-is

' I USE PREVIOUS

DITIONS

SECRET

Passed Rage

CONFIDENTIAL

L

INTERNAL

USE OHLY

+ APPRO

ELEASE 109S

SAL REMEN PROGRAI

UNCLASSIFIED

SHH 53080

DocId: 32271049 Page 2:

---

## Page 3

SECREF

OLC 78-1065/4

s13 March 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Don Gregg

•SA/ DO/0

FROM

SUBJECT,

Patrick L. Carpentier

Assistant Legislative Counsel

Sanitization of HSCA Researcher Notes

1. (S) Attached for your review, appropriate sanitization, and

classification is a copy of the notes taken by HSCA researcher Pat Orr

*on the file of Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz.

Please note that Orr would like

to have these notes sanitized by Wednesday, 15 March.

2. (U) Please use black grease pencil to excise and directly above,

the excised information please write in a sanitized description of the

• information excised, for example: employee, asset, etc.

3. (U) Please send us a copy of the notes after your sanitization and

"we will forward to the Committee.

All original notes will be kept in this

office under the name of the particular researcher involved.

arpentiof uter

Attachment:

..As Stated

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1093

CIA NISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SECRET

2100f ci Did 3175

53080

DocId: 32271049

Page

3

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Patrick L: Carpentier

Assistant Legislative. Counsel

EXTENSION

1133

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

MAn 14

NO.

DATE

# 14 # 78

OLG: 78-1065/1

13 March 1978

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

Don Gregg

SA/DO/0

Tube: Dx6-Green

2.

Onsed Stuckitte

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-62

670 USE PRONOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

1 HH

53080

DocId: 32271049

Page 1

---

## Page 5

This is a shorter and lss all-indiave

aroned.

in notes turned over prevind on Diaz

canz (Ith probaby be much easier)

I would appreciate it if these notes were

buss by mende, Man 153

status - perhaps they

could Se

Thanks viry much.

Passica On

HH

53080

DocId:32271049

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CIA FILES

PEDRO HUS DIAZ LANZ

1958

chronology

Fall: Pedio Diaz Lane invowed in auti-Batista activities

with associates Ricardo de la Lovie and

Frank storini Ast Frank Stuges, "Francsco"

November 22:

cubaw rebels and American unth

C-s captured at Apatzingen Airpoz in

richoacon. Among those captured: POL ant

Frank Fiorini.

Three tone of Cubow repel

119,59

a source:

January I: Information

Frank Pioriai Prom

Pedro Diar hauz, Chief, Rebel Air Force,) that

cuban Ain Force demobilized ; to be built up

from scratch. An investgation its of torme

officers to tate place

June 15: Report IDL making confidential statements

to a us. businesman regarding Chotros

communist tendenores.

June 21: DDL to depart from Cuba with help of

Tim Bryes, American national; President of

Aerodex corporation,.

Sergio Diazi Bruelle and Carlos Echegoyen

reportedly chaner a beat on of lianito

pick up Dias Lanza and his wife.

PDL takew to.

INS for processing

HM 53080. DocId: 32271049 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Flapover handling of Diaz hant's entry

into lal be Diste between goverument

POL

fiven

immediate

June 220:

Cable to cIA HQ from Havana reguesting

not divulge entry in Us. of PDL

July

2: Cable ta several per Latin Amenzanstations

from

CIA to requesting maximum press

and

radio explitation of PDL's defectionand

* making specific recommenda-

trono ao to The

story.

PDLs sends litter to the Cuban president

with hit resignation fion dil chief of the

CubaN Rebel Air Fore

July I: "Discussion paper regarding publieity for

PoLe arrival, presumably to obtai

maximum explaitatin of PDL arrival in US.

July t: Report Trant porini, sergio brule

and Carlos Echegoyen went to see Bipsst Tim

before a sendte sub committer and worth

recine 100% Us foverment Support to

overthrow Castro.

accompanied su degio Diaz Brack

Report Fiorinion

attempting to get Byes to

surren tons sell. the B-25.

prostitu

in Byers custod

Fiorini's name

That was purchased prion

MH 53080 DocId: 32271049 Page 7

---

## Page 8

to PoL's departure From Cuba.

July

18: PDL Testifies before the Senate sub-

coramittea

on snternal seeurity regarding

the

symptoms, as PiL. sels them, of the

Castro governents communist tendencics.

Inly 24: Nachington Post article by brew Pearson

Charging "Defeng Cuban Chief' exploited."

July 27% Bagher harcos Diazo lant arrives in tampa teas grabe

August 4: CA internal memorandume regarding

kiami base

(CrA) vivolvement in the arrival

sp DDL in us. reflects PDL in contast

with Patrick Karnley of The ClA. Memo

cites conflicting intereors of

desira po take PDL. from 1N8

lethim

intertogate him. th

Thes

ноитне ін

country; the Army which desired

to question him right away; and the

senate sub-committe, whith desired to

call him in for sting a hearing.

August 7: CIA internal memo trom karally refects

a meeting between karaley,

POLI

Ricardo de la horie and

Marcos

Diar Lante

for a discussion of ye

the plans

of These individuals i possible aid

Group the

red for security. Howeve.

at cautined y There!

and apparently unshakeable.

-rationship sush

people like Frank Piorini... With whom

they

were dose during the revolatic. I have

repeatedly cautioned them abort Fiorini

specifically and They have always responded

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 8

---

## Page 9

recognizing Hiat Frotini it a threat in

he tales too much..

But..

it we

proceed with Tws group;

it has to be done with the

expeetation that Piorini and overs are going to be

frequently arrund. This group and we will have

Orly The word of these people that he and

Overs are not being inforned of their adities.

Cerober 21: PDL flies over Havana accompanied

Frank Srirgis to drop anti-Castro leaflett

october 30: Min resis Routi

and second seet indicates

Dias Law file

recived bg

shand Hunt for rie.

-2 repts.

1960

Janiang 3: Asicle in "Parads", trashingion Post,

Jamany. t0= Kamley in contact with PoK Aleg for

discussion of atspute between

PDL,

Ricardo de la Lorie, aud Marcos Diaz Laur

which. has deteriorated into as bitti feud.

Also discussed earplan tonings

Marcos DLis recent trip to buatemala, of

which PDI claim to aware but opposed to

since Sergio Diaz Brull and Prane

Fiorini went aloug.

INS 800K FOriNTS

passport whew he resentered. the k.8.

and Fiorini is it in real danger of losing

hit eit

citizenship:" The PBI Is ready to "Huror the boo

PDL indicates MDL

"has ideas of his oure"

and PDt doesnottry to stand in his cony

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Tanuang

aud PDL.

regardicig activitics of PDL.

1) the apparenty had meetings with benes.

che as to muetter fortriondo

roula bud support for a military operatio

led by PDL, without a political commit-

ment to triner Portionds for The future.

Pade interested in estaßlishin

a non-proat organization to raise fundo for

his acrinnes.

(Note: Celerio, eno world also

be involoed with PDL plass,

mentiond name

vf Resung,

"suggesting combine of kabong -

ukes- andard Bil was somehor gebring

read into This group. 1464

of Another report of the same meeting indicates

e diouasion of PDiS planto

c) Poh apparently usited the Nicarapaan

moasy with Marguer-dereine reg in

Was hinton, De, regarding assistance, for

a mintan oxpedition ajainst Castro.

it) paL apparently having difficulty with INS

ejarding lis passport and appears to be

distresied by the attitude of

which reminded. him they could arrest

him at any time.

Karnles afterword

spoke to the

PB/ agent abont this.

a Karley charactines IL as ver naire -

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 10

---

## Page 11

"a babe in the woods" about ctain malks

Hamluy

ania

that the to pusliirty

hurtine

bit FDL IS.

"by

но сеан

Fofal Loss.

Peloia g epor wint, tou woit nine w

rho a plannicy medting m

Мападна, Лісаладна між волока

harh 26.

Report on PDL indicates he is

nfonora, beuildered, onteart Ke was

ex communicated ln Ricardo ae la Lon

for involiing himself nith batistiano.

like Cajigas and Pedraza,

66600

timoll PDs was eena

bius,"kireed off'" by

Redraza *as a litle boy playing a manis

дате

Lovica vees felt soriy for his la friend "8.

and told him he could still be of use to

Mema if he worild be willing to take oress

and avoid publicitig, but horien thinks PDL is

constitutionally

icapableaop the latter and

trat indusion of DDL would be somewhat of

a menace:

MDL March 30: CIA srites report on UA involoemenit in

case of MDL, former Deprity Director 4

lusan Reodlutiouarys Ar Force, and

applicant for U.S.

permanent resident

•Report rricludes a rebuttae to

Geveral suing's statement that the CiA Said MDL

intended to contarue Ziaslike tucties if he

is able to return to the U.S.,.

, thus

negatisg oue possibe objection to.

4DLS rFM

70 Tu ws

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 11

---

## Page 12

April 10s PDL appears in heis anile in lame Herald,

"Ses lastros Time Run Out?"

May 12: Cable en

2 CA HQ from Miami cita a

нота that

"Ms Puillipss"

PD2

NH Dive,

notified

востастою іттікет

еры то и талое т а песту ша

held Between Allegro,

Pedra, aud Faget

rejarding support for

PDL. With 850,000

menioned as the goal. I was bot koin

whether a finds were handed over to

PaL although it was reported that

unds were obtained.

ones reports indicate PDL formea a fore

approximately 100 men under the

Superation of

Frank Forni: PD reportedl

rossesson of considerate funds

since

manh eguipment had been nad

to me mens serry given field Naining ata

camp one The outskirts of biami by Piorini

buatemala mentioned as possible staging

base for me expedition into Cusa

CIA cables indicate PB And Border Daird

mu contact Pittanition

asle suggests close she 2 both, the

psychocozial and politell implicatina of

sach expeditiona moments bi

DDL. The

'Question"

raised whether some action should

be takes to "submarine" PDLs plans,

on the premite That it is well established"

that PDL. has been thoroughly discredited.

book in labor and with me more resporsible

exile eement and has consistenily provided

an effective pea from Castro governent propagan.

"Su liqut of possible tarntul results of PDL

venture,

нетона сик сов ду поратн

to

HH 53080 DocId: 32271049 Page 12

prestrate that before it gets of the ground."

---

## Page 13

Fune 24: 8e0T

cAvortice memo fom to an

officer in the contact sittion,

PDH WaS

interrewed mering his regusst and

reportedly

inquered. as to "what people

Mine S should do,.

"expressing hit desire

to overthrow Castro,

but remaining

unenthusiastic abont the anti-Casto

Trento organization set up in rexico City

de specificall

expressed.

reservatios

how the trustworthiness of Mawuel Solin

June 28:

Case from LA Ha to usH stating

PDL not connected with FRD in any

way

Kalonney will brief."

July

S:

Arcarance of PDL on NYC TV program.

Fuly

6

Arander Roke, Fr interriewed nike

Dy of contact office in New york and

stared That he felt PoLI

arced to pire 70 L. a mintan

Sermoza rad

•зах

vicaras

PDL ras tripig to nolarse

an organization b

name of

committe

to Rescue

hatin America vom Communion,

or somethin similar..

Rorke daïmad

sorrille srader tentativel, afreed to

sopppers The Commiter.

HH 53080

DocId: 32271049 Page 13

---

## Page 14

July 7- Report that PDL. about to initiate

fund raiting campaigno for group, suggests:

6s raiting with VoIGoRAs the obrisus

and PDL. specifically.

18- "Diano has America" carries an aducAtse

1203

Cubana

. Signed tay

, PDL!

Cables

to CIA HQ from misu indicates

sonom for the need of controlled and

coordinarea popaganda effoto ana an

avoidance of premature releases.

Controt de esche

form for Pedro Diaz

Laur (not dates)

August 11 - Cable from Havana reposing discensio

sver

us government

support for Lorie,

Nino Dia, 7 PDL

september le - Cable from rexico city indicate

a crit in the militan staff of socioc of

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 14

---

## Page 15

he most immediate senes P, Bre

valued into the recriting offc unti

Anjust and volunteered to

join The PRD pilot promp ao an

individual

the nintan greed Diar

haue a a fire pilot and

joining a

political plus since i was arfunding

member of competie group, "Fianza.

Mabregas and livatana vere tatewar

tried to order The mihang

committee acurt Poh, which suceeded

in pulting all senior militan staff

memben in opportion. As of tho date, issue unrecono

таке

September

request to see state

Separment representatives, included

among The cusans: Chinea,

rictor

Pedro Diaz Lane and

Luis Conte Aquero. However cable memo

indicates State Department Will five Them

The coed shoulder.

September

19: 3

Report That several "Alianda" in

пой тале не но.

tino Diaz,

Crickor

Ah Drejo" PDL, and huis:

Conte Aquero.

Information received that

Renegue may be a Castro plans.

September 27. Memo indicates cuban exile Sergio

Rojas concerned that young mes

suck as PDt were seing wasted by

not being put to use by

FRD.

October 12: Cable midicates Aureliano fanchez.

trango left the FRD followly a dis-

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 15

---

## Page 16

agreement with sher leaders. He o now

joining forces with groups led by PDL,

Conte Aguero and Athens

Also noses Antonio de varona is appointed

coordinator of the IRD in Spile of

oppositione By tusto Carillo.

November 24: Sate Cable to CIA Hos indicates:

Frank Fiorin; Franciaco Lano,

evangelita. Mussuli; Ramon P. Fuentes,

vestor Awarez,

Remando Garia.

rancor biaz Lanz

PDL suggested to barones mat the

above personnel could torn a sacial

mistion group to drop leaflere on

Cuban cities maintain the aircraft

c.

To prepare themselves for standin

readiness, Bias has requisted

barona

Cand harona has queried Hunts) for

funds to (A) Rehabiltate The persoriall

ouned B-25 aircraft of 12 at a

cost of approximately 85000

B) Provide

po lots with

link trainer

time (8 pilors at 1o hours monkly,

at a cost of 88 per hour)

(e) consider purchase of float eguipped

lessna 180 and or 210 for

infiltration / extiltration operatins.

d. PDL is proceeding

with 8-25 rehabilitation

via loan.

of *2500 pon Migue

Anger queirado, for which, according

sucHIRP-,, he win air drop

Bohemia over aba.

HH. 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 16

---

## Page 17

e lapon smit indicates desire at minimum

to maintain the fight ogliciency of Thi

group whose current aud fature actintes

could be monitored and directed by the

rewly-establithed joint luban /Armerican

operations section of the micitin

Commissin

"Berand being a pilot,

Diaz Lanz exudes

a certain mystique which the press

has been guick to recoquize. Theo he st

a aurrent propaganda.

asset as wed as de military astet."

varona commented That biaz Levas

joined

The CRO

piniarily

so solve findneral

problems.

Hoveres, Hunt belieres

oh highly mosivated and recognizas

he PRD as the mainstream asti-Casaro

organization.

The temporary solution

Is to assign the bias gross to the

transport Commission, which kis

bunchions sendes the military

conimissio,

But finde are not currente

link

tainer time.

Requests headquarter approve initial Liste

trainer refresher for ease pilot, not

likely to extend beyond 3 months.

h. Cable stares

"the political advantages

[ofI keeping Diaz sahspied and

Cooperative Cisy well worths sove

relatively minor expenditire."

Norember 28, 11b0 Cable pom headguantes to TMASM

answering 24 orember table above

MH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 17

---

## Page 18

++

+

allusses disapproval of paragrapho c ig,

oratly paduates doe not want additial

Liban pilot and does wot bense sait

give

Dias haux and

company a "false impression"

br

instituring even a limited trainin

profian.

The cable norther states

0696VANG-2

headguanco Mat he passed "sov0

"Ostainea pom prato sources' 1o DDL. to

repair the B-25. He puntier States That.

the aireraft has been repaired

and

Lars intends 1o make a loafer drop

on or abora 30 hovember 17 s

possible cIA fando sos passed to

Bives 2 for prop(?) use now

being

diverted. for repair of the aircrags.

The cabee.

states that headquastes

policy regarding no a-S. fivernment

sponsored. Doerfeighs from the us.

iu stands ana

requests That

take immediate steps to stop PDLe flight,

either by persuasin or with help

of local authorities so impound airerits.

It is "essential (so arsia (thet

possibility 07] such independent air

operationa."

Headquaners realises PDL may be a

political asset,

but if so,

he ean best

benoed for that purpose within PRD

Cable aloo has a 1es0rae cominent form

western Hemisphere dission - "Hunt states

Land requests fund to repair personally.

Guned B.2S at Cast of US. $50000, ALsO

HH 53080 DocId: 32271049 Page 18

---

## Page 19

wants QS. $2,270 to give link training

to nine pilotifor

3 months.

does not

November 29,

1960 Excerpte of a conversatita

Clarify Stares

berween

varona rud the Stale Dept

indicates varona describes PDL as =

"somewhat impersons, roho is how Working

December 6.

candidate for "cessain fiele.".

Mable neming PDL do possible

sounding out the opinion (pesumably

of Headquartes) of the desirashity of

Inciding sown PDL.

+

Décember B - earlos Kchegaes Threatning

me 014 as backing

AMIRON

reveal

mutions raining sites and identify

personnel involved in plans for invasia o

Cuba.

He no long trusts PDL.

Deember

maicates contact with PDL ana

Pies sincerity and

Plana for POL

as proposed bu

potential

PDL scenthusiastio

over

referenced trip,

but wawed Careful

separation m. order to avoid day possible

даішно.".

The cable indicatos

EDL

so edito a dye on let tine senten

+

4s? Comment ou cable: "Headguarters

approved peanning

Diaz - Lane

propaganda 'Plight of truth" as proposed

P07 Headquarters by Hunt

January cables reflect prepartions for tour, ce

attempts to obtain nas, establith flight

nona; prepare FRD delegates in hust

countrilse, ere

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 19

---

## Page 20

Januasy 19, 1961u PDL receires 3400 as expense moneytur

Jamuary 20, 1a6i cable neurdiny Praan Feny trely

to customo agente regardias cllegid

ciA activities.

mann focd a cuoton

afent (cho, in tura, reporsea A to the

14 That the btettan

*

32,300

in cliasges mor paid for tue rehrase

Of The B-28 seized By Custors for the

leafut crorg, was actually provided sy

The CiA. He aloo said PDL Nas

*

Repors prat Fiorini

15аs. Falking "Woostl"

ait migut jespadike

inteosganed by feent

countrica sarts in

which

the BUS would be wed. Ihe CIA

was supposed to have sanctioned the

рам.

Fiorini aloo said he sporato

as aent on

Me name of

"Berker". 01 4420 NGv. S St.

Ie customs agents aeso inteniewed PDL,

who ex pressed concern That Firrini night

get invoeuca nn a nay

Mat woild inpair

The plano of the dnti- castro group

Rosults- Hunt

invessjation

Hunt investraated Mhe resôrt and determired.

That The auleged 2800 payment

"Is presuned to be part of (thes mone

fiven to. PDL by Saralegui" as a

"Pesonal leas."

Barker egparently tolo ttunt he met

Ptovine

y One occarsion mith a

frong of people and has weses seln tie

before or sinicen . Fie address of Barker

provided by Florini was-nof correct, acconiy

to Hunt .

Hunt appears to Mise to PDL's defense by

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 20

---

## Page 21

vasta

"poL's dane

ottest PDL

guil operationsitte

se did not wout

-be in conte neros

Thaces.!

+

Turther pointing out IDL's Concern over

Sturps actions. He says PDL allege

That he and his peoples are being

rounded by federal afents, who ask

cadily and provocative questia

Hunt points out That several seople in the

Pid the out le partin pen

Frest the plans have become knows,

althogh

Hun maintains that athe

i essential

element of plausiber demal

presuma-

sly of CA intovement m IDLi plano)

February

11981

Pe met with Micce

Maney

seguesting to be a pilot in the

ERD

mat

PDI " would ard wreate in creatu

lopint de corps and discipline.".

However, neses on a lA routiny sheet

indicates are PDL «woula cause

increased morale problemo...

Possibly

coned use unilaterally.

tebruam 3, 1961 Cable indirares Leus Conte Aquero

and PoL returnily to litami

tability to obtain

visas for Pous plane,

manpacroon with four to continue

By Commercial feisht if 1DL

chosen as the replacement atten

Februang

10, 1961

headquares dusing trip.

recollect knowing Enrique Molina hivera

ARA

Azuro Morales y Rodriguer

мето re

"oscar Diar" shoning intrigue ba biar

зasotase естів

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 21

---

## Page 22

restlarg

I rent agina

bon's there

Hamptor. Roads salvage lo of Tallahasse

-

Februam

26

DoL reposedly at a meeting with

Juan Carolo (NemesTo Rodriguez) $ Com.

Pa arousna

Gonzales for discussion of PDL

trip to Cuba.

- PDL expresses Bitemess

March

towards Pi and emme.

25 Repor tuat men Meet bens left

Base him and pined Prio,

since PDL

Apil 28

Memo of conversatio betwar Heint

and NX. Herald Tribune reporter

arisivering allegations:

exile suchas Ricardo de

hip Cuban

and

la Lorie

P.Des, colo had made

comperines asont CA assistance on

May 1,

Riel

Memo mercate

7 individuals in

being pair $1500

etive and some

not picked ip

Their April pay cheeks.

remo requese authority to drop the

From 20 pee entire

hay

6,-

196/

"toL part of group which

itemess subtle

organised. tneeting of lusan exiles in

Ben front lark, riani to attach

Nörth Anencar involverent in the "Cusan

Affair" and aloo to stack hannel tsine.

May 23, 196/ Cable indicating group ap peloss

expressing desire to

30E retuni to

+

to remain proficient in flying,

despite attempts by PDL. I try to stake

over"

мети powe

amory May

31,

1961 - Cable reports on elections head.

with the mutan eat the the pisan

HH: 53080 DocId: 32271049 Page 22

---

## Page 23

pilots for chet of the fir Force, lausing

PIL.

"does uA hold

July b, 1961 cable from headquares inte

Regarding

a miers be made of requirementsfor ne

POA -

not mitated

use of PDi in boat operations. "Felling

here he LisT indiscrete and coued

1962

mission. POA not distrated"

Jaruang

5, 1462 Memo regarding overdue

account indiantes no lasempt wil se

made to recover

3400 Passed 10 PDL

opinion or PAL

Merno also note.

"sued in maling time woes

propaganda

salsafe

an of Tallahasser.

[Biopraprical data - not dated - insened in tile-

reveals PDL formed oun movement CCC

but was unseecessful in obtaining suppos,

considered by Me PRD $ Other moderately

liberal groups as including some ex-

Banara amy fies.

In April 1960 i7

was reposed that Diaz had commilled the

ee and hinsuf to froup headed by

harguer-stecing. However, CCC mersed

witho

Aviazza de Liberacion, an

amalgamations of everal younges grape

of Cusan excess. Considered "hothead;"

has considerable stature as former chief

of AirPance. Recently accepted into ERD

"Epitorsed by Mr. Braden, Mn Colligen of

Preefor Sulphir".

HH 53080 DocId: 32271049 Page 23

---

## Page 24

- April 30, 1962 - Trace reguest from truy for PDL.

• Folloning discussions with

періг венец

and

the sony ,

"The Army has afreed

view of mormatin contained in our

Agency files;

to drop interest in subject?

September 29,

1962 Report That PD L. spoke at

meeny at bayront Passe and critreal

or h.S. recruitment effort.

1963

March

April 15.

the intest

PDL.

June

July

31

25 1163 Report PDL. Dune 2pT bors in

the hiami area

- Bets Trace Request - "Subject A

cropped without prejudice"

MDL, Fiorini, PDI, Carlos Geria ana

Salvador Garcia Oller,

a UR. Offreial,

making plans for raid againot Cuba

to tale place weekend g 15 Fuse

PDL involved in abortive atmpt

at of air strike and unfler raid

Morember 3

at meeting of the FORDe in New york

increased

anti-vs.

sentiment.

City makins anti-hS. Stalements

That Cubans would have to fight

alone sincetorensedy administio

would not help. Claimed to have:

been offered a position in Cusa

ater takeover b

y Frank Bender

CIA note denies FOL ever met

1964

Bender)

Ганнат 26 ,

Report The working with relige

vidal Santiajo.

HH 53080 DocId:32271049 Page 24

---

## Page 25

January 11, 1969- PDL reportedly miteresting in

plan to sink a

Russian Ship off Cuta

Norember 3, PTT7 Report PDL involved in

assassination of JEK- probabl

coult of Menta Lorenz allelation

HH 53080

DocId: 32271049

Page 25

---

