# docid-32292245

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10021

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-337

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/16/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292245

Page 1

352

---

## Page 2

Released unter the

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

FEDERAL FUMAN DE ME TIGATION

U.S. DEFARIMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 1 6 1961

TELETYPE

def

Mr. Trison.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr_-

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conged

Mr. Dol

Mr. Eva

Mr. Ma

ME.

Rosen

Mr.

(Sullivan

Mr.

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

10-16-61

6-12 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-3731

1P

GUXELEX, AKA. AR, DAILY SUMMARY. CE SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH & HAS

ADVISED THAT AN INDIVIDUAL WHOSE NAME HE COULD NOT RECALL AND WHO WAS

AN EXTREMELY HEAVY GAMBLER IN CONNECTION WITH HORSES AND BASEBALL FORMER-

LY OWNED A BUSINESS NAMED

XCARKA CARPETING FIRM ON MICHIGAN AVENUE.

INFORMANT STATED THIS INDIVIDUAL WENT HEAVILY INTO DEBT TO LOUIS

/TORNABEN OWNER OF THE SANTA FE HOTEL AND CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF CUS

ALEX

INFORMANT FURTHER STATED OBBIE FRABOTTA AND PHIL

ALDERISIO WENT AFTER

THE CARKA CARPETING FIRM IN ORDER TO OBTAIN A PIECE OF THE BUSINESS

AS A RESULT OF THE DEBT TO TORNABENE. EFFORTS WILL BE MADE TO

DETERMINE WHETHER ALEX MAY HAVE OBTAINED AN INTEREST IN THE CARKA

CARPETING FIRM THROUGH TORNABENE, FRABOTTA AND, ALDERISIO AS A RESULT

OF THE GAMBLING DEBT OF THE OWNER. ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH

SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

REC. 51

923182-331

END AND ACK PLS

OCT 1'% 1961

7-15 PM 'OK FBI WA BH

TU DISCT:

- OCT 23 1988

F26

DocId: 32292245 Page 2

---

