# docid-32206552

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : NARA

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-10002-10105

RECORDS SERIES

WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

Case#:NW 54653

Date: 10-23-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : MORRISSEY, JAMES F.

TO

TITLE

LIHM, WASHINGTON, D.C.

DATE

PAGES

: 02/28/64

: 30

SUBJECTS

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, JEANNE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: C

RESTRICTIONS

: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

:

COMMENTS

1A, 1B, 5, 8,

10-13, 16,

19, 25-26, 34-36, 41-43,46-47,49,51-56,

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54653

DocId: 32206552

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Commission

Fr-:04 (59v.353-59)

535

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

CONEIDENTIAL

Copy to:

Report of:

Dater

JAMES F. MORRISSEY

2/28/64

Field Offico File # 100-1689

Ofices Washington, D.C.

Burcou Flle #: 100-32965

Title:

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT;

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

3.20.95

Classified by S668 SIP/Bds

Decksis on orter

JFK

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

ALL IPFORWATIOM CONTRIED

NENSIE IS UNCLASSIFIED

Ihird Agency,

KIGEPY WHERE SHOWN

Бупорлія:

BiNGSWISE

Info set forth re 1961 inquiry WFO, FBI, concerning a GEORGE

DE MOHRENSCHILD allegedly writing for'Life' and 'National

Geographid' magazines.

Records National Geographic Society

reveal only correspondence.. Male subject contract employee

ICA in 1957, hired to act as consultant in oil resources in

Yugoslavia.

Results offe

background investigation

conducted 1957 in connection with same set forth.

Interview

therein of former partner of male subject about 1950 to 1952

revealed male subject expressed sympathy for Germany during

World War II and unable to respect confidences.

Uncle of

male subject's wife, PHYLLIS WASHINGTON, states generally

unreliable: and lacks sense of responsibility. Fellow

employees state male subject's employment in Rangely, Colorado,

unsatisfactory due to poor judgment and irresponsibility in

financial matters.

investigation contains interview

Mrs. WYNNE SHARPLES DENTON, former wife of subject, who

indicated subject associated with known homosexual and

suspected homosexual.. She described him as irresponsible;.

childish; unreliable; poor reputation; sexually promiscuous

prior to marriage; resentful of rich

and successful people

and a person who might join in a revolution for the fun of

it.

Described also ine

reports by others interviewed as

irresponsible, childlike, an atheist, and as one trying to

get even with

the world for the loss of wealth and position

his family suffered from the Russian Revolution. Passport

background information regarding GEORGE and JEANNE

DE MOHRENSCHILDT set forth.. Passport information regarding

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

Excluded from automatic

SECRET.

downgrading anc

‹de classificatior

This document contains nether recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI.

it is the property of the FBl and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

VY 54653 - DocId:32206552

Page,?

Marrier a

---

## Page 3

WFO 100-1689

SECRET

female subject as JEANNE LE GON set forth; indicates she

was born 5/5/14, Harbin, China; maiden name FOMENKO;

married ROBERT LE GON, born 1/25/14, Russia, on 10/26/32.

Employments in women's apparel industry and

with LE GON

revealed in passport into.

Passport. background information

set forth regarding brother, DIMITRI SERGIUS VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

Passport info set. forth regarding ALEXANDRA ROMEYN DE

- MOHRENSCHILDT, date of birth 12/25/43; New York City,

apparently daughter of male subject, and one DOROTHY PIERSON.

Passport info set forth regarding DOROTHY ROMEYN PIERSON and

PHYLLIS MARIE WASHINGTON DE

MORRENSCHILDT, apparently former

wives of male subject;

background info of brother,

DIMITRI, set forth. WP T-l reported 1958 one GEORGE DE

MOHRENSHELD attempting to meet with Dominican Ambassador

DE MOYA..

WF T-2 reported 1948 one YURI (GEORGE) MORENSCHILD

discussed meeting with F. A.. GARANIN,

identifiable information regarding male

(5)

subject u.s.

Police, Metropolitan Police Department, House Committee

on Un-American Activities, and Office of Speclal

Investigations records.

Third Agency

1767

-

1

A

-

HW 51653

DoeLd: 32206552

-Lage 3

---

## Page 4

₩FO 100-1689

SECRET!

TABLE OF CONTENTS

A.

Inquiry 1961 re a GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD,

allegedly a writer for "Life" and

"National Geographic!"..

B. Investigation at "National Geographic"

C. Review of International Cooperation

Administration (ICA) File of Male Subject..

D.

Review of Files of CSC re Male Subject;

Investigative Reports Therein Set Forth.

1.

Interview of Former Wife, Mrs. WYNNE

SHARPLES DENTON......

....

E. Information From Passport Files

1. GEORGE DE MORRENSCHILDT.•

....:

' . .

2.

JEANNE DE MORRENSCHILDT,

aka

Mrs. George De Mohrenschildt,

Jeanne

Le Gon, Mrs. Robert Le Gon, Eugenia

Mihailovna

Fomenko Bogoiavlensky..

3. DIMITRI SERGIUS VON MORRENSCHILDT.

4. ALEXANDRA ROMEYN DE MOHRENSCHILDT

5. DOROTHY ROMEYN PIERSON......

...

PHYLLIS MARIE WASHINGTON DE MOHRENSCHILDT....

Third Agency

Record Review of Brother, DIMITRI..

Page

2

3

5 -56

31-39

57-59

59-65

66-68

69

69

70

71

F.

G.

H.

I.

star.

with Dominican Embassy Personnel.

with Russian Embassy Personnel.

Washington, D. C., Police Records Review.

J. HUA and OSI Record Review.

•74

74

SLUREL

-1B -

18.

21653 - DocId: 32296552-

Page -#

---

## Page 5

SECRET

WFO 100-1689

Third Agency.

REVIEW OF FILEST

RE GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

On February 26, 1964,

made available the results of

investigation conducted

by the

regarding GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT during the

period of

August through November, 1957.

Third Agency

"NEW YORK, N.Y.

"Employnent

"EDWARD GORDON HOOKER, 011 Financier, One East 57th Street,

Residing at 830 Park Avenue. (Reference) :

"My mother, Mrs. WINIFRED CARTWRIGHT HOOKER, who resides at

the Hotel Palais D'Orsay, Paris; France, was married formerly

to DMITRI VON MOHRENSCHILDT (GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT's brother),

who is a professor at Dartmouth College. I belleve I

first net GEORGE, when my mother and I went to visit his

brother, in Belgium in about the summer of 1936.

I

was just a young boy at the time, and I do not recall what

GEORGE's activities in Europe were at the time or where he

might actually have been residing.. I next saw him after

his arrival in the United States in about 1938 or 1939 when

he came to visit his brother, DMITRI, who, by that time, was

already my step-father.

Between 1938 and 1943, I resided

at 950 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. with my parents; my

brother, sister, and grandmother were other occupants in

our apartment there. It is my impression that GEORGE never

actually resided at that address, in our apartment or in

any other for that matter. I know that he did use our

address as a mailing address, and recall that he may have

stayed over for a night or week ends or so, but he kept no

clothing there. I was away at college during much of the

period of my residence at 950 Park Avenue, but I came in

frequently on holidays and vacation periods, and I an

sure that I would recall if he lived in our apartment.

I recall that he did have an apartment for some short period

of time around that time somewhere on the "Eastside of

Manhattan (New York, N.Y.), but it 1s also my impression that

SECRET

5

1: 322065

---

## Page 6

-1.

SECRET

WFO 100-1689

contrast with the allegedly poor treatment that the Poles

had given his father.

I do not recall ever hearing that he

might have associated with any Nazis either.

I have no

reason to believe that he is or ever has been sympathetic

to communism or the Soviet Union.

Despite his expressed

sympathy for Germany during World War II, I would have no

question about his loyalty to the United

States. I do not

know of any organizations to which he might ever have belonged.

There are three people who have known him for many years,

and who I feel have been close social associates of his:

They are Mrs. CHARLES DUNCAN MILLER, PIERRE FREYSS, and

BAILEY BALKEN. The latter is in the oil business, also

in our Southwest.

"Nothing has ever come to my attention about him which would

involve any possible imnorality, intemperance or dishonesty.

I believe that he is normal mentally and physically.

I

cannot, however,

recommend him for a responsible position

involving our national security because of his 'inability

to respect confidences!'

I can cite at least two incidents:

On one occasion, after I had indicated to him my reasons for

disapproving of

his proposed wife, he went and told her all

about what I had said about her; on the other occasion,

when

I was just a young man, after I had pledged abstinence from

liquor and had violated that pledge, GEORGE told my mother

about it.

I feel, therefore, that he has a tendency to

violate personal

confidences when he knows full well that

these are personal confidences.

Although this might be

attributed to tactlessness or naivete, I believe that he

cannot be trusted implicitly with any type of secrets, let

alone government secrets.

"STALEY TREGELLAS, 011 Developer, One East 57th Street.

"I first met GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT in Dallas, Texas, in

about 1951, just about the time when his partnership with

ED HOOKER had been dissolved.

I visited GEORGE's residence

there, where he lived with DIDI SHARPLES. I understand that

they have been divorced. I have seen him only occasionally

since that time, whenever he visited New York. I have

shared office space with his former partner,

ED HOOKER,

here at this address; we are not friends, and our contact

53 Doc1aд3220655

eate 50

naren it

+=o572

---

## Page 7

SECREW

WFO 100-1689

changed our methods of operation and dissolved the committee.

We did not feel that he had misappropriated any fund or had

been dishonest, and there were no accusations or intimations

of such a nature.

He knew it was his resporsibility to

control and

account for expenditures, but he was extremely

lax on that score.

GEORGE understood exactly why his services

were being terminated and why the committee was being

dissolved and its operations reorganized.

As far as I am

concerned, he would be eligible for rehire for any position

for which he was qualified with respect to geology

petroleum engineering.

No question ever arose concerning him

with respect to character, morals, honesty, sobriety,

loyalty to the United States, or organizational connections,

or associations.

I can recommend him for a position critical

from the standpoint of

the national security.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Investigation was

conducted at Vintage Wines, Inc., 625 West

54th Street regarding employment thereat as an

'Agent' sometime between 1938 and 1943.

Mr.

HENRY BEHAR and Mr. JERRY DOBROW, the

principals

of the corporation and active operators of

the business between 1938 and 1943 had no

recollection of subject. Miss ANNA SENFELD, the

Office Manager,

who was employed by the company

during said

period, had no recollection of

subject and indicated that no personal or

payroll records were available.

Mr. JUSTIN

BING, Warehouse Foreman, who commenced his

employment in 1941, had no information

concerning subject.

"EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY, 393 Seventh Avenue.

Record furmished by Miss FRANCES

JOHNSON, Correspondent.

"Our records indicate that GEORGE S. VON MOHRENSCHILDT waS

associated with this company from December 19, 1939 to November 26,

1940.

He was not actually an

employee of the company, but was

under contract with us as a Life Insurance Agent.

He was

supposed to sell life insurance, full time, on a commission

basis. The reason given for termination of his contract

10

Due Mi: 322069522a46

---

## Page 8

SECRET

WFO 100-1689

by the company was 'non-production.' His contract was

terminated by a 'seven day notice'

from the company to him

of the company's intention to terminate and the reason

thereforth.

His production record indicates that he sold

no insurance whatsoever during the entire period of his

contract.

"He resided at 13 Bast 67th Street, New York, N. Y., and

gave his marital

status as "single.'

His date of birth is

given as April 17, 1911; his place of birth is not shown,

although his nationality is given as 'Russian.'

His last

previous employment, as indicated by him at commencement

of his agency contract, was as a Salesman for Chevalier Garde

Inc. from August to December,

1939; reason

• for leaving - to

enter insurance. Prior to that, he indicated that he was

a salesman for Humble Oil from June to August, 1939; reason

for leaving - return to New York. Prior to that, he was

employed as Manager for Sigurd from October, 1933, to May,

1939.

There is no indication of the location of said previous

employments on the card.

More detailed records, including

his contract file, have

been destroyed.

There is nothing in

the record which would reflect unfavorably upon him with

respect to character, loyalty or associations.

There is no

one employed here now who would have any personal knowledge

of Mr. VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

"WENZLOFF AGENCY, 120 Broadway. Record furnished by DOROTHY

MAC WHINNEY, Secretary.

"This agency was formerly the L. A. Miner Agency of the

Equitable Life Assurance Society, to which GEORGE VON MOHRENSCHILDT

was assigned during the entire period of his agency contract.

Mr. MINER and I were employed here then, but we have no

recollection of Mr. VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

In November, 1940,

his agency contract was cancelled,

upon our recommendation,

for lack of business as a matter of policy.. Cancellation of

such a contract should not reflect unfavorably upon Mr.

VON MOHRENSCHILDT; I am sure such a contract would be renewed

at any time, provided he could obtain the necessary insurance

business.

The records indicate that his address was changed

from 13

East 67th Street to 109 East 73rd Street, both at

is.. it?

11

SECRET

FuN. 54653

11-49

2069

---

## Page 9

WFO 100-1689

SECT

COST

New York, N. Y.; no date for such change is noted.

There is

a letter of reference in our files, dated May 1, 1938, from

MAISON SIGURD, Antwerp, Belgium, which indicates that

Mr.

VON MOHRENSCHILDT had been employed as a correspondent and

bookkeeper by that firm from the time of its founding

(no date given) to 1933, and that he had managed its connercial

department from the latter date until March 1938 when he left

his position for the United States.

There is nothing in

our records which would reflect unfavorably upon him with

respect to character, loyalty, or associations. There is no

one else employed here who would possibly have any personal

knowledge of him. His former direct supervisor 1s deceased.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Efforts to locate the

principals, employees or records of Chavalier,

Inc. (or Chavalier Garde, Inc.) were unsuccessful.

Dunn & Bradstreet, Inc., Credit Bureau of

Greater New York, New York County Clerk's Office

and appropriate New York Telephone Directories

(covering the years 1938 through 1944) had no

information concerning said company. Inquiry

was conducted at 730 Fifth Avenue, formerly

the Heckscher Building. No record of the

company could be located among records of

its former tenants; no information concerning

the company or any of its employees who were

employed at that office building since 1938.

"PIERRE R. FREYSS, Export Manager, Schumacher and Company,

60 West 40th Street, residing at 5.West 63rd Street,

Rumson Road, Rumson, N. J.

"I first met GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT in about 1930 here in

New York City. He had recently arrived from Belgium, where

he had been educated.

For a short period of time during

the last 1930's or early 1940's, I employed him as a salesman

for this company, selling decorative fabrics.

He was not

too successful at this type of work, and involved

selling.

There was nothing unfavorable connected with his leaving

his position, and he would be eligible for rehire.

We have

no records pertaining to his employment whatsoever and there

is no one employed here who would possibly have any personal

knowledge of him.

It is my impression that, shortly afterwards,

12

-114. 54653

martin.

что трат

---

## Page 10

SEURNEY

WFO 100-1689

he went to work for the Humble Oil Company, working as a

field worker.

he also went to Venezuela,

working for

some oil company there.

I never heard of Chevalier (or

Chevalier Garde), and am not familiar with any possible

newspaper work which he may have done.

I know that he attended

the University of Texas, became a geological engineer, and

worked for many years in Colorado and Texas in that field.

I would see him only intermittently over these many years.

Although he considers me a close friend, I do not consider

that I am an intimate associate of his.

I was his best

man when he married Miss WINNE SHARPLES in about the early

1950's. Recently, she divorced him, in Texas, I believe.

Previously, he had been married to and divorced from

FIFI WASHINGTON'; I believe they resided and were divorced

in Colorado. Prior to that marriage, I believe he had been

married to a 'DORIS' In New York; I do not know how that

marriage severed or where. I do not know whether he had

any

children of elther of his first to marriages, but I am the

Godfather to his son, one of his two children of his last

marriage.

From everything that GEORGE ever told me, I would

judge that he is still on good terms with his former wives

and his in-laws.

I do not know where any of his former

wives are except the last, who is now Mrs. ROBERT DENTON and

resides outside the state.

No question has ever come up

about him which would reflect unfavorably upon him with

respect to honesty, integrity, moral character, use of

intoxicants, or physical or mental health.

far as I know, none of his matrimonial difficulties would

reflect unfavorably upon him with respect to character,

loyalty, or associations:

"At present, he is in Yugoslavia on a mission to locate oil

tOT TITO, semt by the United States Governmenalso received

that before he left here some months ago.

some mail from him, in which he told me he was in Coratia.

"I have no knowledge of his activities during World War II,

because I was away.

He had no connection with me.

I have

no reason to question his loyalty to the United States. I

do not believe that he is sympathetic to communism,

Fascism or any subversive ideology. He has never indicated

6:214.

13

53,

"Obeli

---

## Page 11

NFO 100-1689

SECRET

Engineer,

Assistant Chairman of Rangely Field Engineering

Committee

1946, Consulting Work at Houston, Te*as . BALKAN, Texas

August 1945 to June 1946, Petroleum Engineer in joint

operations of Creole Corporation at Pantipec Oil Company in

Eastern Venezuela (W. W. SMITH, President, Pantipec 01l

Company, Caracas,

Venezuela); January 1944 to August 1945,

University of Texas, graduate work and teaching; January 1942

to January 1944 Reserve Officer, Polish Army, connected with

purchasing mission,

French and Polish Armies

• (Petroleum

Division) (H. H. POIRET?, University of Texas and Major

FORSTIER, Paris, France); January 1940 to January 1941,

construction work in Mexico, (own firm) (no name furnished);

February 1939 to January 1940 practice in drilling and production

in Texas and Louisiana with the Humble Oil Company, etc.

(JOHN BLATTER, Commerce Oil Company, Houston, Texas;

March 1937 to June

1938, geological work in Poland,

Silesia

with consulting geologist, two summers (Dr. WASILEWSKI,

Krakow, Poland). No residence addresses are shown. He

can be contacted at deMohrenschildt'

and Walden Oil Company,

1639-40 Republic Bank Building, Dallas, Texas.

"Endorsers, whose mames were furnished by him as sponsors

for his entrance into the society were: J. F. BLACKWELL,

the Texas Company; J. J. ZORICHAK; GEORGE H. FANCHER;

the Z80AK;

BASIL, ZAVOICO; JOHN SUMAN; H. H. POWER; SEIGE JURENEV

Ithe first four endorsers listed were contacted by the

society and furnished favorable references). There is

nothing in our records that would reflect unfavorably upon

him with respect to character, loyalty, or associations.

There is no one here who would have any personal knowledge

of him.

"AZAMAT K. GUIREY, Account Representative-Radio and Television,

Young & Rubicam, 285 Madison Avenue, residing at 47 East

61st Street.

"Although I recall seeing GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT in social

circles,

I do not think I really got to know him until about

1944 or 1945.

We got to know each other because we used to

attend the same social functions, given by people of our

'Baltic, Russian' background. I never visited any of his

16

ULURET

06552

6:"

---

## Page 12

DAM:

NFO 100-1689

associations either. He does not drink, and his honesty and

integrity are above question.

He is in good physical and

physical health.

With respect to his moral character, he

has always been interested in omen, he wants beautiful girls,

and women chase him and seemed pleased with his attentions.

I would not say that his conduct has been in any way

notorious. He never played around when he was married,

and during each marriage,

led a conservative life and was

true to his wife.

He does not gamble either. Although I

feel that we got to know each other quite well, I still do

not consider that we are close personal friends. i believe

many acquaintances with whom he likes to 'mix.'

that he can be entrusted in a position involving our national

security, and I would recommend him for such a position.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: New York City Police

Department.

Appropriate name checks

on AZAMAT K. GUIREY and IGOR PANTUHOFF

resulted in 'no record.'

"WILLIAM STIX WASSMAN, Financier, 70 Pine Street.

"My niece, PHYLLIS WASHINGTON, married GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

in Colorado sometime during

the late 1940's.

They lived

together at Rangely, Colorado, for a couple of years until

their divorce.

There was no issue of the marriage. I do

not know any of the circumstances about where the divorce

was obtained, or who obtained the divorce. I do know that

the main reason was their incompatibility.

Personally, I feel

that she is the type of person who would be impossible to

live with, and I know, definitely, that she ran him into

debt.

I do not know where she is at present or how she may

be contacted; she is a rather irresponsible person, and the

last that I heard was that she was 'traveling.'

"I would estimate that I know GEORGE for at least the last

I had occasional contact with him here in New

York City, whenever he visited over these years. I last saw

him when he passed through New York on his way to Yugoslavia

on some economic mission for the United'

States Government.

FACT

19

HH 5465

---

## Page 13

SECRET

WFO 100-1689

temperament and behavior is common to Europeans. He

worked quite well, for instance, with his boss, ZOROCHEK,

for ZOROCHEK was

also Russian born and understood

DE MOHRENSCHILDT thoroughly. ZOROCHEK, incidentally, is

now deceased.

"To my knowledge, he has never been a member of any

organization whose interests are inimical to those of the

United States. I belteve he became a citizen shortly after

he left Rangely, but I have wondered why he waited so long

he tod to lone

to get this citizenship, for he had been in the United

States for about ten to

fifteen years. He did not

associate with objectionable persons. As far as I know, he

1s a loyal American citizen.

"GEORGE is the type of person who is difficult to appraise

objectively, chiefly, because he is inclined to be

Irresponsible and definitely unpredictable. He is somewhat

unprincipled and quite independent.

I would therefore,

rather not recommend him for a sensitive position even

though I may be doing him an injustice.

"I don't think there is anyone else in Rangely who had any

contact with him when he was here, for all of the field

engineers he worked with have transferred out of here.

"Criminal & Credit Records

"RIO BLANCO COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE. (Covers Rangely),

Meeker, Colorado. Records checked by WILBUR RICHARDSON.

"No record.

"CREDIT BUREAU OF NORTHWESTERN COLORADO, Meeker, Colorado.

Record checked by Credit Manager, ROBER L. HOWEY.

"No record:'

SECRET

25

100516500 DoeD2296952 Bare 7

---

## Page 14

WFO 100-1689

SECRET

"ASPEN, COLORADO

"Criminal Record

"PITKIN COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE, Aspen, Colorado.

checked by Sheriff LORAIN HERWICK.

"No record.

Record

"WLR: 1c:9/17/57"

"DENVER, COLORADO

"Employment

"T. H. (HENRY) MATTSON, Division Engineer, Texas Company,

1570 Grant Street.

"When the Rangely oil field was being developed, lt was

recognized by the oil companies participating in its

development that it was a large field and that data of

development and production should be gathered and made

available to the various companies participating. An

engineering committee, made up of representatives of the

various companies was organized to develop this data.

The

committee was headed by & chairman who was not an employee of

any one of the oil companies and who was responsible to the

Rangely Operators Committee.

This committee was made up

of higher level personnel.

When this function was begun,

the chairman, who is no longer here, needed an assistant,

and DE MOHRENSCHILDT was hired as that assistant.

This was

in about 1946 or 1947.

After a couple of years, this first

chairman left the committee, and DE MOHRENSCHILDT was made

chairman in his place. DE MOHRENSCHILDT held the position

for a couple of years and then left. He left in about 1950

or 1951.

"I was a member of the engineering committee, but was most

active during the time the first chairman was in charge.

I

did participate in some committee meetings at which DE MOHRENSCHILDT

presided, but most of my knowledge of him is

hearsay.

believe he did a satisfactory job, but I don't know whether

he left the position voluntarily or was requested to resign.

26

VECRET

I 1653: Dockd a2206950 Pate ta

---

## Page 15

÷.

i.

..

SFORET

WFO 100-1689

4

"In my opinion, the man has enough charm to 'lie

out of anything. ' Sometime after I was married to the man,

NOBLE of Greenwich, Connecticut, told my mother, Mrs.

PHILLIP SHARPIES, that GEORGE was a homosexual.

I don't know

just on what basis she made this statement and I never inquired

into the details about it, but of course my mother told me

about 1t.

"My mother often went to Palm Beach, Florida, during

the wintertime.

On two different occasions she ran into persons

who knew GEORGE well, and they had a very low opinion of him.

I don't know who these two people were by name, or address, and

I don't know the details of their low opinions

about GEORGE.

The opinion could include homosexuality, but I don't know

whether or not it does. Of course my mother always defended

GEORGE to her utmost.

This was necessary then and even today

in order to protect my reputation and the reputation of the

two children of that marriage that I have with me.

"During our marriage our sex life was normal and

nothing in that relationship would indicate any suspicion of

homosexuality or anything else abnormal.

"As far as moral behavior was concerned, GEORGE was

completely faithful to me and there were no other

women

In the same way there were

no other men in my regard and I did not meet my present :

husband until after I obtained the divorce from GEORGE. Our

divorce was not accompanied by any scandal in the least. I

have always endeavored to avoid any scandal of any kind.

"I know that before our marriage, GEORGE had had

affairs with other women and one of them was a notorious

woman, although I forget her name, but this was known to me

even

before I was married and I didn't care about promiscuity

before our marriage.

I believe that GEORGE had exaggerated

some of his prior affairs with women anyway.

I met a past

associate of GEORGE's in New York City Just before we

were

married.

This was EGOR PANTUHOFF, a painter and a 'known

homosexual'.

We all make allowances for persons who have

talents in painting.

I regarded

this man as sort of a

'lunatic' and a psychopathic person.

He steals things and

he thinks it is funny.

He has affairs with both men and

women. In a burst of emotion he said to my husband,

'if

you marry this girl (me) I'll never speak to you again'.

34

SCORET

".

---

## Page 16

.

WFO 100-1689

5

SECRET

At a later time I had my portrait painted by this man. It

is my understanding that he had a close friendship with .

GEORGE in the past.

"I sometimes think that possibly GEORGE was a homo-

sexual years ago and that it may be something connected with

his past and not his present.

"Another past associate of GEORGE'S waS HENRY ROGATZ,

an independent geologist, of Dallas, Texas. This man was a

nice type of person, but

there is a

suspicion that he also is

a homosexual.

The general rumor in Dallas about this man 1s

that he takes out older, unattractive women on several

occasions each year just to prove to people that he is not

a homosexual.

He is generally well-liked however.

My husband

and Mr. ROGATZ both took an automobile trip together to Mexico

around the time that my

second child was born.

This was in

November, 1953 and the trip lasted for a week or two and

possibly it was about ten days.

To my mind, this trip was

just another 1tem of irresponsibility on GEORGE's part. I

never gave it too much notice.

"At one time during our marriage I asked GEORGE 1f

there was any truth to the rumors that he was a homosexual.

He replied that it certainly was not true and he added,

'anyway, in Europe we look at those things differently.' In

my estimation, this was an admission of guilt that he was a

homosexual or had been one. In my mind, I felt that he did

not vigorously deny it and

no so and tear not got anety

he did not get angry at the idea

of such a thing.

"Looking backward now on that wedding day when

GEORGE and I were married, I think of two of the ushers as

homosexuals.

the ushers

consisted of some eight or nine

bachelors and some of them were very good-looking.

We had

visited one of them in New York City and his first name was

PETER, but I don't know his last name or where he lived.

When we came in to see him he was making his own draperies

and pillows for his own apartment.

This effeminate activity

should have stamped him at once in my mina as a homosexual,

but as it stands, I just think of him as a homosexual looking

backward at that time.

Another usher, whom I now think of as

being a homosexual is PRINCE AZAMAT GURREY.

He has lived in

New York City and changed his address a number of times and

I wouldn't know

just where he ever lived. His association

35

SECRET:

.0m 54609

1.72:

ir.

---

## Page 17

WFO 100-1689

SECRETI

or friendship with GEORGE would

be in the past, before I

knew GEORGE. I think of him as being effeminate in appear-

ance and manner and this 1s also looking backward now.

"After we had been living in Dallas for some time,

it suddenly dawned on me that we weren't getting the social

invitations that we should have been getting.

Mrs. PIO CRESTI

was a social leader in that city and she knew me and liked me

and yet social invitations were not coming from her.

In

talking with various friends of mine, I eventually learned

that Mrs. CRESTI had a very low opinion of GEORGE and that is

the reason why I wasn't invited to anything in the social line.

Mrs. CRESTI was very discreet and as far as

•I can learn, she

never mentioned why she didn't. like GEORGE, but it must have

been a strong bad opinion that she had.

"I do not consider GEORGE as completely honest. He

told me about his attending the University of Texas where he

got his degree in geology.

He said

that he had cheated in

examinations by the use of 'ponies'. As I understand it,

ponies are papers with copied information that a person takes

into an examination with him. He said that everyone cheated

in this way and he wasn't ashamed of having done it himself.

That is, his manner of speaking about it showed that he wasn't

ashamed of having done 1t himself.

"In business, if somebody gave him $5000.00 to invest

in an oil deal, he might lose their money through poor business

judgment and then he wouldn't feel bad for the person who lost

the money.

He would feel that it was their tough luck.

"He once told me that he borrowed $1000.00 from some

woman that he knew in Europe and he didn't repay it.

attemped to get her name and address so as to repay her but

I never did get it.

On the other hand, he wouldn't delib-

erately plan to cheat anybody out of their money. He just

isn't the type of a man who would plan to cheat or steal

somebody's money.

He would never be deliberately dishonest.

Sometimes I think that the man doesn't know right from wrong.

"GEORGE was not too successful in business and both

my father and myself gave him money on a number of occasions

when business deals did not pan out too well for him. It 1s

my opinion that some of the businessmen in Dallas would

consider him unreliable as I do.

36

SCCRET

5.

54653

32306592

Pave

---

## Page 18

SECRET

WFO 100-1689

11

business with an office here in Dallas. His work took him to

various places in and out of the United States but I have no

definite recollection of just where. I know he was

never gone

for any great length of time.

"GEORGE 1s a hard man to understand and he is in my

opinion a devil may care, Irresponsible type of person who 1s

mixed up inside.

In our

small business deal I kept a close

eye on him not because I questioned his honesty but because he

is such an irresponsible person.

I would not say his morals

are bad, but I believe he is indiscrete in his relationship

with the opposite sex. He is in every sense of the word a

'ladies' man.' I know he has

been married and divorced at

least three times.

"I know of no questionable organizations to which

he might have belonged and I have never seen or heard of him

being in the company of people whose character or reputation

might be opened to question.

From my observations of him I

would say that he enjoys good physical health.

"I do not question his loyalty to the United States

as such, but GEORGE impressed me as being a man who owes

allegiance to mankind and not any particular country.

would recommend him routine job with no security aspects, but

because of his sometimes juvenile and irresponsible attitude

I feel I cannot recommend him for a position of public trust

because even though he is a grown, educated man, I do not

think he would appreciate the importance of his position or

its duties.

"Neighborhood

"Mrs. O. C. HOLEKALP, Housewife, 11641 Hillcrest Avenue.

"The DE MOHRENSCHILDI family moved in at 11631

Hillerest Avenue in about 1951.

After they were divorced

In 1956, Mrs. DE MOHRENSCHILDT lived here a while and then

moved away.

My association with the family was limited to

a casual hello when we chanced to meet which was not too

often.

I feel that I did not know Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT well

enough to make any comment concerning him.

SECRETI

Mia.

41

daId: 32

---

## Page 19

WFO 100-1689

12

SECRET

"Mrs. FLOYD NORMAN, Physician, 11550 Wander Lane.

"We moved in here about two years ago and at that

time GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT and

his family were living at

11631 Hillcrest Avenue.

Mrs. DE MOHRENSCHILDT was also a

physician and we became reasonably good friends. She told me

that her husband was running around with other women and at

times he had women in the house when she was away on a trip.

"My association with Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT waS

limited to one or two group get togethers in the neighborhood.

My association with him was so limited I actually formed no

opinion concerning him. All I know about his moral conduct..

was what his wife told

me and I have no personal knowledge of

any specific incident or situation that would verify what his

wife said. Based on my limited knowledge of the man I have no

reason to question his honesty, character, integrity; or

drinking habits.

I have no knowledge concerning any organi-

zations to which he might have belonged and I do not know who

his close associates might have been.

"Based on what I know of the man I think of no

reason why I should question his loyalty to the United States

but I feel I did not get to know him well enough to make any

job recommendations concerning him.

"Mrs. H. E. JOHNSON, Teacher, 11615 Hillcrest Avenue.

"GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDI and his family moved in at

11631 Hillcrest Avenue in about 1951. He moved out in approxi-

mately the Fall of 1955. He and his wife were divorced at a

later date and after a few months she, too, moved away.

Occasionally, I would visit attheir home and from time

to time

I would baby-sit for them.

"Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT was a strange sort of man.

His wife confided in me that he was running around with

other women.

I know from my own personal knowledge that at

least twice when his wife was away he had a woman in the

house for an all night visit. The DE MOHRENSCHILDT's maid

and I developed a speaking acquaintance and she confirmed

the

fact that he had women as over-night guests when his wife

was

away. Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDI was an engaging sort of person

but I must say that I did not hold a high opinion of him

because of his infidelity. His wife told me that this was

his third marriage.

SECRET

42

57619

---

## Page 20

WFO 100-1689

13

SECRET

"I know of no questionable groups or organizations

to which he might have belonged and I have no knowledge con-

cerning his friends.

I have no information that leads me to

believe that he has

been disloyal 'to the United States.

How-

ever, I feel that considering his utter disregard for his

marriage vows he could under certain circumstances be disloyal

to his country.

I cannot recommend the man for a position of

public trust because I feel this type of person cannot be

trusted.

"Mrs. HELEN MC GIBNEY, Manager, Maple Terrace Apartments, Maple

Avenue •

"Our records show that GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

moved in here on October 19, 1955 and left January 31, 1957

to go to Europe.

5 15, 2955 and

When he moved in here he was estranged from

his wife and they were later divorced.

I came to know him on

a manager-tenant relationship but I feel that no matter how

long I did know him he would always remain an enigma. He

has natural charm, wonderful manners, and makes witty conver-

sation.

When he first came here he appeared to be somewhat

disturbed over his family problems. However, he soon found

solace with a married woman who was also staying here at the

time. Several times she went out with him on his trips to

Mexico and he was a frequent visitor in her apartment at all

hours and for long periods of time. She asked her husband

for a divorce and he came here from California and they had

quite a discussion.

It is my understanding that she did

eventually get her divorce and I believe that at a later date

she went to see DE MOHRENSCHILDT in Europe.

"As a tenant he paid his rent on time and I never

had any trouble with him insofar as drinking or wild parties

are concerned.

I will say that his affair with the married

woman is something that I do not condone.

Other than the

fact that he was in the oil business and

traveled a great

deal, I know nothing about his work. As I said, to me he

was

a mystery and I did not know him well enough to make any

further comments about him.

I cannot think of any tenants

now living here who would remember him.

"Miscellaneous

SECRET

"JAKE I. HAMON (Reference), Independent 011 Producer,

Vaughan Building.

"I became acquainted with GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

as a result of our wives

being friends. I believe the first

(at"

sit it:

H+-;

---

## Page 21

WFO 100-1689

16

SECRET

"GEORGE is an odd, confused person and definitely

irresponsible and sometimes childlike in his actions and

thinking.

I feel that I know him and yet to me he is still

a mystery in some ways..

"The Russian Revolution caused GEORGE's family to

lose a great deal of wealth and position and from a little boy

who had everything he was in a sense thrown out in the streets

with nothing.

He was later given a fine education but I think

that GEORGE is still trying to get even with the world for what

he considers his loss.

I cannot say that his morals are low,

but I think they can be improved.

I will say that in his

relationship with women he can be very indiscrete.

He has

been married and divorced three times and I understand that

he is planning to try 1t again.

GEORGE is the type of person

who does what he wants, when he wants, and public opinion 1s

not considered in the least.

He uses

alcohol moderately and

I have never seen or heard of him being intoxicated. During

the course of our conversations, he has told me that he is an

Atheist and believes in no religion.

I personally have heard

him direct criticism at all denominations. As an example of

his unconcern for convention I have a letter from him postmarked

Belgrade In which on one side of the letter he praises the

natural beauty of the country and tells of the enjoyable times.

On the other side, in spite of the fact that he 1s a guest in

that country and mail is probably censored, he blasts the

of people whose loyalty or reputation I might question.

for GEORGE, himself, I belleve he would never intentionally

betray the

United States.

However, he is in my opinion more

or less a citizen of the

world and not very realistic about

the present dangers to our form of government. I would

recommend him for a job having no classified aspects but I

feel that due to his irresponsible and frivolous nature I

cannot recommend him for a position of public trust.

"14th DISTRICT COURT CLERK'S OFFICE. Records furnished by

AL THOMPSON, Deputy Clerk.

"Case No. 7138 A/J of the 14th District Court

reflects that on April 16, 1956, WYNNE SHARPLES DE MOHRENSCHILDT

was granted a divorce from

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDI on the grounds

of cruel and harsh treatment.

CRETA

46

a 1165230

Doora: 32206552-, Page: 21-

---

## Page 22

WFO 100-1689

17

SECRETI

"Criminal and Credit Records

"DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT, Identification Bureau. Records

furnished by ARTIE C. CLARK, Clerk.

"No record.

"DALLAS POLICE DEPARIMENT, Records Bureau.

Records furnished

by Mrs. RUBY MOORE, Clerk.

"No record.

"MERCHANTS RETAIL CREDIT ASSOCIATION. Records furnished by

Mrs. ALVIE EVANS, Clerk.

"GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT has been in file since

August 9, 1951 and was last checked October 22, 1956.

gave his

address as 11631 Hillerest Avenue and his occupation

as an oil operator, self-employed.

A statement of information

signed by him on December 28, 1951 shows his date of birth as

April 18, 1914 and a telephone interview with him dated

February 17, 1956 again shows his date of birth as April 18,

1914.

In February, 1956 his office address was shown as

Room 1640, Republic National Bank Building. He has a satis-

factory credit rating.

"Abilene, Texas

"Neighborhood

"J. H. SIBLEY, Bellhop, Wooten Hotel.

"I remember Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT quite well. He

stayed here. at the Wooten Hotel. for over a year from 1951

to 1952.

I do not recall the exact dates of when he stayed

here.

He was an oil operator and traveled quite a bit.

He

was quite a spender.

"Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDI Impressed me as being a fine

gentleman. He was a man of good moral character and personal

habits.

I never observed anything derogatory concerning him.

He appeared to me to be loyal to the United States.

I know

of no groups or organizations that he belonged to nor any

friends or associates that he had that would make anyone

suspicious of his loyalty to the Government.

47

etisines

---

## Page 23

WFO 100-1689

19

SECRET

integrity. I do not know of anything derogatory concerning

him but I would not like to recommend him as a security risk

as I do not feel that I know him well enough.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Several independent oil

operators at Abilene were contacted and although

several of them knew DE MOHRENSCHILDT and

remembered his name in a casual manner, they

did not know him well enough to comment on him.

"Criminal and Credit Records

"POLICE DEPARTMENT, Abilene, Texas. Records furnished by

G. C. CHRONISTER.

"No criminal record.

"SHERIFF'S OFFICE OF TAYLOR COUNTY, Abilene, Texas. Record

furnished by R. A. FRENCH.

"No criminal record.

"RETAIL MERCHANTS CREDIT ASSOCIATION. Records furnished by

Mrs. O. H. BRYANT.

"The only record that we have here in our file

concerning GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDI is that he was in our

file December 27, 1951 and an inquiry came from Fort Worth,

This inquiry was to a bank here at Abilene and every-

thing was favorable.

We do not have any other information on

this subject other than the above inquiry from Fort Worth,

Texas.

"Perryton, Texas

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: W. D. "BUCK" DAVIDSON,

employed by the Sharples 0il Company and a

former business associate of the subject was

alleged to be employed in Perryton, Texas,

but investigation at that point failed to

locate this witness or the company with which

he is employed.

49

"CRET

34433

DocIC: S220655

---

## Page 24

WFO 100-1689

21

SECRET

"I know of nothing Irregular in DE MOHRENSCHILDT's

morals or habits which would have brought about his previous

divorces - in fact, I had a great personal liking for him.

He

has been in my home on numerous occasions and always conducted

himself quite properly.

My wife and high school age daughter

were very well taken to him as he was a polished conversation-

alist and very flattering to the opposite sex.

"I would trust DE MOHRENSCHILDT with anything that I

own and I know nothing that would reflect against him as to

honesty and integrity. He is in top physical condition and in

sound mind.

I know nothing of his affiliations but had no

cause to doubt his beliefs or loyalty to our form of government.

There were some people around Rangely who were suspicious of

him and questioned his Russian background, but so far as I

know this was due to nothing that DE MOHRENSCHILDT had said

or done.

So far as I am concerned, there was no basis for the

suspicions and I will recommend him for a position that is

sensitive from the standpoint of our national security. His

close personal friends included prominent and highly respected

people extending from coast to coast and border to border of

these United States.

"Odessa, Texas

"Employment

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: This point of investigation

was set up as a point for the purpose of contacting

W. D. (BUCK) DAVIDSON, an employee of the Sharples

011 Corporation, concerning matters of which he

was supposed to have information that transpired

In the Rangely Oil Fields in the State of Colorado.

Contact with officials of the Sharples 011 Corpor-

ation revealed that subject was not located in this

area and had not been, so far as they knew in recent

years.

All contacts indicated that the witness

above mentioned was not any where in this area at

this time.

"Austin, Texas

SECRET:

"Employment

"UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS, Office of the Auditor, Payroll Division.

Records furnished by VIRGINIA BAYER.

51

wife.

---

## Page 25

...*

WFO 100-1689

22

"Our payroll records indicate that GEORGE

DE MOHRENSCHILDT was employed

as a

tutor in the Romance

Language Department on a part-time

basis from November 1,

1044 to June 30, 1945.

His address was given as 1014 W. 19th

Street in Austin, Texas.

He gave the forwarding

address of

Pantepec 011 Company in Maturin Managas, Venezuela.

No

derogatory information in our files regarding subject.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Professors available

contacted stated they had little or no contact

with tutors employed by the Romance Language

Department. Witnesses interviewed had no

personal knowledge regarding the subjeet.

"Education

"UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS, Registrar's Office. Records furnished

by KATHY BALSON.

"Our records indicate that GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

was admitted to the University of Texas, March 6, 1944 and

received an M. A. Degree October 29, 1945. He was majoring

in Petroleum Engineering.

His thesis work was taken during

the last part of his education here and some of his work

could have been in absentia. No record of his actual physical

attendance is maintained.

"His date of birth is indicated as April 17, 1911

and his place of birth as Mozyr, Russia. His parent's name

was given as S. DE MOHRENSCHILDT, Wilno, Poland.

education is indicated as attendance at the Polish Jym fron

which he received a diploma in 1929 and the Superior Institute

of Commerce where he received a diploma in 1933.

He stated he

was a graduate of a high school in Poland in 1928.

records reflect no derogatory information regarding the

subject.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Investigation indicated

that Dr. HARRY H. POWER and Dr. GEORGE H.

FANCHER, Professors of Petroleum Engineering

during 1944-1945, were out of town until the

University of Texas reconvenes.

Other

professors contacted were not at the Uni-

versity of Texas during subject's period

of education.

52

1HL 34653

Dae20:30206562-

25

• Hitchidi

visite

---

## Page 26

-.

:

WFO 100-1689

23

SECRET

"OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF STUDENT AFFAIRS. Records searched by

RUTH NEEL.

"No disciplinary action.

"Neighborhood

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Witnesses contacted in

the rental area of 1012W. 19th Street stated

were not in the vicinity during 1942

Most of the immediate area has

been commercialized since subject's residence.

"Criminal and Credit Records

"AUSTIN POLICE DEPARTMENT, Identification Bureau. Records

searched by JEANETTE BOCHMEYER.

"No record.

"AUSTIN POLICE DEPARTMENT, Records Bureau. Records searched

by BERNICE MOFFETT.

"No record.

"AUSTIN RETAIL MERCHANTS ASSOCIATION. Records searched by

ROBERTA PRYOR.

"No record.

"Houston, Texas

"Employment

"HUMBLE OIL AND REFINING COMPANY, 1216 Main Street. Records

furnished by PHILLIP DUNN, Acting Bureau Head, Service Records

Bureau.

"The official personnel records in this office show

that GEORGE S. VON MOHRENSCHILDT, date of birth August 17,

1911, Social Security Number 449-28-7285 worked for this company

as a

Rotary Helper from May 24, 1939 until July 13, 1939. The

location of the job on which he was working was in the vicinity

of Lirette,

Louisiana.

The file shows that Mr. VON MOHRENSCHILDT

was laid off in July, 1939 because of a reduction in force, and

that his

services were poor. Because of this service

rating

53

UNED:

Dc1k720655

!

---

## Page 27

WFO 100-1689

24

he is not eligible for rehire. Mr. VON MOHRENSCHILDT's birth

place is listed as Mozyr, Russia, and his address is liste

as 950 Park Avenue, New York City, New York.

His father's

name 1s listed as

SAGIUS VON MOHRENSCHILDT and his mother's

name 1s ALEXANDRIA LATOSKEY.

"The file further shows that Mr. VON MOHRENSCHILDT

holds both Masters and Doctors degrees from universities in

Belgium. The file contains no derogatory information.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Further investigation at

this point disclosed no witnesses who had

personal knowledge of the subject, nor could

any leads be obtained which would reveal the

whereabouts of such witnesses.

"Criminal and Credit Records

"HOUSTON POLICE DEPARTMENT. Records furnished by PANSY LELAND,

Clerk.

"No record.

"HOUSTON POLICE DEPARIMENT, Identification Bureau. Records

furnished by JUANITA MECHE, Clerk.

"No record.

"GREATER CREDIT BUREAU OF HOUSTON, 712 Milam Street. Records

furnished by DOROTHY SCHULTE, Operator 35.

"No record.

"Washington, D. C.

"Employment

"INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION ADMINISTRATION, Security Office,

Room 340, 811 Vermont Avenue, N. W. Files presented by Mr.

JAMES FEENEY.

"The security files contain a memo dated August 1,

1957. stating that the Project Manager had advised that the

ae the rolled

applicant entered on duty February 3, 1956 under an Individual

contract with the government of Yugoslavia. This memo was -

SEGRET

54

MY 1016934

Docta:92206552

rade 24042749

---

## Page 28

WFO 100-1689

25

SECRET:

addressed to the Director of Personnel from MARY B. CRAIG,

s/Co.

The file reflected that subject is an applicant for the

position of Consultant in 011 Resources with the government of

Yugoslavia. A preliminary clearance was issued on June 6,

1956 and on April 5, 1957 this preliminary clearance was can-

celled as it had never been used.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Investigation at the

International Cooperation Administration

revealed that the date of entrance on duty

was February 3, 1957.

"DOCTOR MILAN BULAJIC, Second Secretary of the Embassy of the

Federal Peoples' Republic of Yugoslavia, 3rd Floor, 1520 16th

Street, N. W.

"I have no knowledge of a man by that name being

employed by the Republic of Yugoslavia. I am sorry but I do

not have any file on this man.

"EDWARD H. VANDERHAGEN, Chief,

Accountant Attache, French

Consulate, 2129 Wyoming Avenue, N. W.

"I have checked all the old files in the French

Mission which are contained in the basement of this building

but I cannot find any file on this man under either name.

nave also checked for any record on a f. FORESTIER, but have

located no file on this man. I have never heard of either of

these men.

"Mrs. MARIE PAULE ROBERTS, Secretary, Personnel Department,

Office of the French Commercial Consular, 1001 Connecticut

Avenue, N. W.

"We have all the available records for the French

Mission.

I have not been able to find a file on this man

under either name.

I cannot find a file on a Mr. P. FORESTIER

either.

It 1s possible that a file might have been misplaced

as we have moved

several times.

"BERNARD PETE, Chief, Mail Room, Office of the French Commer-

cial Consular, 1001 Connecticut Avenue, N. W.

"All French personnel was interned in Hersey,

Pennsylvania, from November, 1942 to the midase of february

1943.

During this time all of the buildings occupied by-the

55

SECRET

497.4:

659

DatId:322

"Page: 28,

---

## Page 29

ULCRET

WFO 100-1689

26

French Mission were under seal and no one could have worked for

the French

Government.

I came

to Washington, D. C., In June of

1943 and I have never heard this name nor have I ever heard

the name of P. FORESTIER.

To my knowledge all of the personnel

In Washington

were military except some civilian girl typists.

"Neighborhood

"R. L. POLK COMPANY, 9th and F Streets, N. W., 10th Floor, the

Washington Building.

"The files of the R. L. Polk Company which contain

the city directories for Washington, D. C., for the

years of

1941, 1942 and 1943 were checked with negative results under

all names.

"INVESTIGATOR'S NOTE: Glover Park is the name

given to a large section of homes and apartment

houses in the northwest

section of Washington,

D. C.

"Criminal and Credit Records

"METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT.

"No record. (From time to time some of the Depart-

nent's records are out of file and not available for review..

"CREDIT BUREAU, INCORPORATED, 1221 & Street, N. W.

"No record."

SECRET

56

---

## Page 30

WFO 100-1689

JFM:n1n

1

SERPET

INFORMATION REGARDING CONTACT OF A GEORGE

NO ONE AN EMBASSY PERSONNEL S

WF T-I reported on April 21, 1958 that a GEORGE

DE MOHRENSHELD (phonetic) was in contact with BEATRIZ

RODRIGUEZ of the Dominican Embassy, Washington, D. C.

DE MOHRENSHELD told her,

according

to wF t-l, that he was

from Dallas, Texas; that he had spoken to Ambassador MANUEL

DE MOYA two days previously and that the latter advised him

that he could see DE MOHRENSHELD that afternoon.

RODRIGUEZ

told DE MOHRENSHELD that the Ambassador had left for the day

and had not mentioned any such appointment to her.

They agreed

that DE MOHRENSHEID would call the Ambassador's residence laterfs)

On April 22, 1958, according to WF T-1, DE MOHRENSHELD

told RODRIGUEZ that he was going to New York and would call

Ambassador DE MOYA on Wednesday or Thursday.

He requested

that the Ambassador call DE MOHRENSHELD at the Park Chambers

Hotel If the former went to New York 5)

The 'List of 'Employees of Diplomatic Missions" for

May, 1958, published by the United States Department of State,

I1sts Miss BEATRIZ RODRIGUEZ as a clerk, Embassy of Dominican

Republic.

The "Diplomatic List" for June, 1958, published by

the United States Department of State, lists Senor DON MANUEL

•A. DE MOYA as Ambassador E. and P., Embassy of the Dominican

Republic.

•DET

72

---

## Page 31

WFO 100-1689

JFM: n1n/kmn

1

STRET

MOTORICTION AREA RUSSIAN TACT OF A TURN GEORGE 5>

MORENSCHILD WITH RUSSIAN EMBASSY PERSONNEL

On May 31, 1946, HF T-2 reported that a YURI (GEORGE)

MORENSCHILD, (phonetic),

was in contact with F. A. GARANIN of

the Soviet Embassy, Washington, D.C. According to WF T-2,

MORENSCHILD described himself as a petroleum engineer who had

worked in the Texas oil fields and in Venezuela and while in

the latter country became very well acquainted with the Soviet

Ambassador FOMA TREBIN.

WF T-2 reported that in response to

MORENSCHILD's question, GARANIN told him that Soviet Ambassador

NOVIKOV was too busy to see him and they then discussed them-

selves deeting together at 2:15 p.I. that date? WT I-2 reported(5)

that MORENSCHILD might possibly, be residing at the Mayflower

Hotel,

Hashington, D.C., at thottime of his contact with

GARANIN.

It is to be noted that inquiry was made at the

Mayflower Hotel at that time to ascertain 1f this person

was rogistered at that hotel with negative results.

WF T-2 advised during the period April 1, 1946, to

June 30, 1946, that FEDOR ALEKSEEVICH GARANIN was Chief of

the Embassy's Consulate Division.

The aforementioned "Diplomatic List" for June, 1946,

published

by the United States Department of State (USDS),

1ISts MT. FEDOR A. GARANIN as Second Secretary, USSR, 1331

Belmont Street, N.H., Washington, D.C.

It is noted that the same publication lists Mr.

NIKOLAI V. NOVIKOV, Appointed Ambassador, USSR.

ECRET

73

---

