# docid-32304101

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10285-10113

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 7-6920-7102

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SL

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 09/24/1958

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: BBA, MED, ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/09/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45703 DocId: 32304101 Page 1

---

## Page 2

4-29.

26 c

OFFICE MEMORANDUM - UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (7-6920).

SAC, ST. LOUIS (7-429)

CARL AUSTIN HALL, waS.

(deceased), etal;

ROBERT COSGROVE

DATE: September 24, 1958

KIDNAPING; EXTORTION; PERJURY

Enclosed herewith are two copies of the report

Of SA JOHN S. BUSH dated 9/24/58 at St. Louis.

REFERENCE

Report of SA JOHN S. BUSH dated 9/11/58 at

St. Louis

hio

One copy of this report is being furnished the

Little Rock Office in view of its investigation of JOHN

ARIL

FRANCISY KINNEY, JEFF HOLLIS and WILLIAM MANSKER CLUBB.

One copy of this report is being furnished the Los

Angeles Office in view of investigation by that office of,

JOHN OLIVER HAGER. One copy is furnished Chicago in view of

investigation being conducted by that office.

The following information was obtained from

confidential informants, Potential Criminal Informants

and confidential sources.

SYNOPSIS:

man who warns her to retract her testimony

before the Senate Rackets Committee regarding JOE COSTELLO

N24

and JOHN VITALE.

_LOUIS DONALD SHOULDERS continues to

associate with PCI|

almost daily,

and latter furnishes

detailed information on his

ENCLOSURE

REC- 25

2 = Bureau (7-6920)

(Ene1. 2)

1

• Chicago (7-660'

(Encl. 1)

OX. P 237-6120-2102

1

• Little Rock

• Los Angeles

1(-323)

7435) (Ench: 3 InFo

1) Enfo 2: 20 SEP 26 1958

2

- St.

Louis (7-429)

ISB: ra

(7)

- 55°

52 ОCT 14 1958

OTHER 4

NW 45703 DocId: 32304101 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SL

7-429

HKM : mjh

On September 20, 1958,

confidential

source whose identity must be protected, personally advised

ASAC H. K. MOSS as follows:

He,

had been by the residence of suspect

SHOULDERS at noon and early afternoon of September 20, 1958;

that the conversation at the SHOULDERS residence rotated entirely

around the interview with SHOULDERS by ASAC H. K. MOSS on the

receding day..

SHOULDERS commented as Io1lows

trying to involve him in a criminal violation with respect to

a visit made by CLUBB to SHOULDERS! residence, but SHOULDERS

expressed confidence that the facts would not

amount to a

violation.

He speculated that if the FBI had a real good case

even against his son, young LOU, the FBI would have proceeded

inmediately by Commissioner's complaint and warrant rather than

via indictment; that the latter method is used only when the

case is essentially a weak one. He further commented that he

doubted if any action would be taken against himself for the

reason that news stories referred only to young LOU, and

certainly in view of all the press interest in SHOULDERS, himself,

had there been any possibility of proceeding against SHOULDERS

the newspapers would so have been advised.

He referred to

comments made by ASAC MOSS as to what would make SHOULDERS "talk"

and SHOULDERS claimed that he implied that he had turned down a

$100,000 offer and when ASAC MOSS asked SHOULDERS to be a

Government witness against COSTELLO, SHOULDERS claimed to have

replied,

"How can I when I don't know anything?"

It should be

noted this is contrary to the comment that SHOULDERS did actually

made to ASAC MOSS as related in the details of that interview

with SHOULDERS on September 19, 1958. SHOULDERS then referred

to the "bad luck" that has befallen all of those who did get

the money, referring to the successful Federal Firearms Act

conviction of COSTELLO and the current severe heart illness

the coon pederal

In generalities SHOULDERS said it

was his opinion that in some manner or other the Teamsters

Union was utilized as a vehicle to dispose of the missing

GREENLEASE money. Referring to the efforts of the FBI to indict

him on the CLUBB matter, SHOULDERS

said that at one time young

LOU SHOULDERS wanted SHOULDERS to "shelter" CLUBB but "I warned

LoUtE that someday they'd get that S.O.B. In a crack and he'd

talk"'.

SILK was of the opinion that

notwithstanding SHOULDERS'

claim

that he was not worried about these developments, that

actually SHOULDERS was perturbed.

OTHER 4

17

NW

45703 DocId: 32304101 Page 3

---

