# docid-32561572

## Page 1

4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED.COFY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Evans

Matone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter .

Tele. Room

Holmes .

*Gandy.

• Radio

Teletype

URGENT

5-25-62

8:39

PM DST

JTA

TO/DIRECTOR

FROM

SAC

PHILADELPHIA

252300

ANGELO BRUNO.; AR. DAILY. PH 614-C-TE ADVISED SUBJECT

AND PAT MASSI, FORMERLY OF MARCO REGENELLIS REGIME,..

CAMDEN, No Jo, CONFERRED PENN JERSEY VENDING MAY: 24, 1962.

THEY ARE EXPECTING IMPORTANT INDIVIDUAL FROM ITALY JUNE 15,

1962. BRUNO ALSO MET WITH FRANK SANNINI, MASSI, LOU

LALLI, AND FRANK NICOLETTI AT 740 CHRISTIAN STREET LATER

THAT DAY.

PH 623-C* CONFIRMED INDIVIDUAL COMING BY AIRPLANE

FROM ITALY JUNE 15 TO NEW YORK. BRUNO SAID THIS PARTY

WOULD LIKE TO SEE "PAUL AND GAMBINO." BRUNO DISCUSSED

FRICTION HE HAD IN RECENT PAST WITH ANTONIO POLLINA WHEN.

"MASSI WAS VISITING ITALY." BRUNO SAID BEFORE THEY COULD

MAKE THE REPRESENTADO OFFICIALE, "THEY HAD TO HAVE THE

PERMISSION OF THE COMMISSION AND THE COMMISSION WOULD

NOT APPROVE UNTIL THEY TALKED WITH JOE." LARGE VOLUME

OF TRANSLATION. IS IN PROCESS. IT IS NOT YET KNOWN WHETHER

JOE IS JOE IDA OR JOE PROFACI.

INFORMANT CONFIRMED BRUNO

IN NEW YORK ON MAY 23, 1962.

RECEIVED:

BRUNO CONSIDERED DANGEROUS.

9:04 PM

ne: 94-2717-5774

BREE

13 MAY 31 Z966

1I06

f the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitabl

oranhrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems

NW 45737 DooId: 32561572

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5/29/62

airtel

TO: SAC, Philadelphia (92-441)

From:

Director, FBI

(92-2717)

ANGELO

AR

"RUNO, aza

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan -

Conrad

DeLoach

Hyans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy.

Reurtel 5/25/62.

Referenced communication advised that an unknown

individual will arrive in New York from Italy 6/15/62, and this

unknown person would like to see "paul and Gambino."

In addition,

you advised that fat Massi of Camden, New Jersey, was also

in conference with Angelo Bruno 5/24/62, and the

unknown

individual who is to arrive from Italy 6/15/62 was discussed.

You are to insure that both the Newark and New York

Officos are completely aware of this information and that

appropriate coverage is given this matter.

The Bureau should

be advised of all developments by teletype.

It would appear from referenced communication that

the individual who is coming to New York could possibly be

Joe Ida, who is presently residing in Italy.

Referenced communication also advises of a meeting

held at 740 Christian Street, Philadelphia, on 524/62. Bruno,

Massi, and other Philadelphia hoodlum characters were present

at this meeting.

This meeting points out the need for the

establishment, i1 possible, of a highly confidential source at

this location.

You should give this matter complete consideration.

Furnish the Bureau your comments regarding the possible establies-

ment of such source at this location and if you feel same is

practicable, submit request for sully sugar tys 717_573

Expedite submission of the information obtained regard-

ing the visit of the unknown mas from Italy to the U.S. on

about 6/15/62.

MAILED 25

MAY 2 9 1962

RIES: mac

(4) A DR

COMM-FBI

EXZ01® MAY 31 1962•

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45737 DooId: 32561572

Page 2

---

