# docid-32292670

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10446

RECORD SERIES : HQ JUNE MAIL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-935

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/29/1962

8

SGI, MISUR CONTINUATION, ARMORY LOUNGE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/14/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32292670

Page 1

343

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992

DATE: 70-11-20187

11-13

''into

9943- (12-28-60)

• OPTIONAL FORM MÓ, 10

UNITED' STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

444 USC 2107 Ho

TO

SECRED

DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile 92-3171

JUNE

DATE:

November 29, 1962

FROM

e, CHICAGO (92-350-SUB E)

"JUNE"

SUBJECT:

3/10/95

Mied ty SP8mPe/GeL

Deciseshiv

01 MADR (TEK)

ALL INTORMATION COU

AINED

HERE:

DATE N/26144 315Pae1s/Buy

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILIANCE

RE: Title

SAMUEL M.

GIANCANA, aka.

Character of Case

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

CHICAGO

Symbol Number

Type of Surveillance:

Microphone CONT. INFi

1. Name of person or organization on whom surveillance placed:

Armory Lounge, meeting place for SAMUEL M. GIANCANA and associates

2. Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

7424 West Roosevelt Road, Forest Park, Illinois,

private office of CARMEN

FANELLI, owner

3. Location of monitoring plant:

Central Tesur Plant

Chicago Office

(5)

536 South Clark Street

4. Dates of initial authorization

Chicago

Illinois

ADD 1900

PAOT CONT

and installation:

Reinstall 8/16/62. (4)

DIE.

02162W163

AL SHOWN

5. Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places):

Originally installed 8/8/61; temporarily discontinued 4/19/62.(U)

6.

If installation is a technical surveillance, answer following questions:

Not applicable.

a.

Is a trunk line utilized?

-: 1 2U

b. Is the surveillance on

REC- 41

c. Is the surveillance

_switchboard?

3121 - 936

publie coin-operated telephone

Bureau (RM)

Chicago

RRH: mak

Autel

1 8MC,C6

1962

Registered Mail

14061

15 DEG

DocId: 32292670 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

d. Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7.

If a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

1 "Mite" unit recessed behind fabric

wall paneling in rear

of restaurant area near booth in northeast

corner area of room.

8. Is the installation part of

tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

No.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Not applicable.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

-No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

None for same coverage.

12. Has security factor changed since installation

No.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency):

NO.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

[Central Plant in Chicago Office. JEs)

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

b. Give total number of other surveillances monitored at

same plant.

- 2 -

*ECRED

DocId: 32292670 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

If any others, set out the proportionate cost of

instant surveillance:

15. Cost of Leased Line for instant installation?

None.

16. Personnel Costs:

a. Give total number of special employees and/or Special Agents

1 Special Agent (SA)

4 Special Agents

11,935.00

34,850.00

, 99

(CP only)

(Polish only)](s)

Total

$86,050.00

b. Total number of man hours per week spent at plant?

5 SEs - 200 hours or 100% of total work week

1 SA - 30 hours or 75% of total work week

(CP only)

4 SAs - 120 hours or 75% of total work week (polish only) (S)

c. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate number of man hours per week spent on

instant surveillance:

CG 6486-C* - 30 hours per week or 15%

of total work week of SEs in plant.

d. If other installations monitored at same plant, list

proportionate salary expense per annum for instant

surveillance:

CG 6486-C* - $3, 533.85

17. Remarks (By SAC):

See attached.

-3-

SECRET

DocId: 32292670 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy' Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-350-SUB E

On September 13, 1962, two mite units were

installed at the source, one mite covering the main

dining area and the other unit covers the rear store

room of the Armory Lounge.

Diode switching is utilized.

Ty this source slave Soptember 13, 1562: 0 pen reported

On September 13, 1962, DOMINIC BLASI met briefly

with an individual named LES (LNU) regarding a meeting

to take place with FRANK BUCCIERI. Later on the same

date FIORE BUCCIERI held a brief discussion with EDWARD

VOGEL and DOMINIC BLASI. The discussion related to

problems with puerto Rican lottery, however the conversation

was not discernable. (U)

Later on September 13, 1962, SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

met with JOHN FORMUSA, Indianapolis Top Hoodlum anc

close associate of GIANCANA, concerning the opening

of the Villa Venice Club sometime around the first of

November of 1962.

GIANCANA advised that he had made

arrangements whereby EDDIE FISHER was to appear as the

and SAMMY DAVIS,

attempt to obtain the services of DEBBIE REYNOLDS tO

appear. (V)

On September 18, 1962, GIANCANA met with JAMES

CELANO, Owner of Celano's

Tailor Shop, the location of

CG 6343-C*. CELANO was attempting to intercede with

GIANCANA on behalf of an individual named SAMMY SPINELLI

(phonetic) Apparently this individual is a policeman

and CELANO was interested in obtaining GIANCANA's sponsorship.

CELANO preceded to advise GIANCANA of his troublestwith

the Internal Revenue Service and the FBI, and related

the instances whereby CELANO was interviewed by FBI

Agents regarding MURRAY HUMPHREYS and GIANCANA whereby he

assured GIANCANA that he had told the FBI nothing. (V)

On October 4, 1962, SAMUEL GIANCANA along

with

several unknowns discussed his relationship with his

- 5 -

SECREU

DocId: 32292670 Page 5

---

