# docid-32285021

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10134-10297

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

67-494012-110

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HOSTY

TO:

DL

TITLE:

DATE: 01/25/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

JAMES P. HOSTY JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO, INC ENV, MEMO

Released under the John

F. kennedu

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 54464 Date:

40-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32285021

15

Page 1

---

## Page 2

DL 157-203

(3) above concerns a statement under "Administrative"

in the report of SA JAMES P. HOSTY, JR., dated 12/12/62 to the

effect effort would be made to interview one DELBERT RAY.

was believed an interview with him might throw some light on an

organization involving ASHLAND H. BURCHWELL and others, the

detail of which was possibly related to instant case, but also

was of particular pertinence to the case entitled "UNNAMED

ORGANIZATION OF DALLAS, TEXAS, PATRIOTS, IS-X", Bufile 100-439412,

Dallas file 105-1475.

The interview of RAY was looked upon, therefore, as

principally a lead in the IS-X case.

As pointed out in Dallas

airtel to the Bureau of 10/4/62 in that case, in which communi-

cation the name of RAY appears, any interview of individuals

possibly connected with this organization was being held in

abeyance awaiting a more definite determination of its nature.

An effort was being made in this latter regard through interviews

with former DL-18-S and ASHLAND F. BURCHWELL in instant case, as

reflected by Dallas airtels in the IS-X case dated 11/23/62,

12/5/62 and 1/8/63. It will be noted a copy of the report of

SA JAMES P. HOSTY,

JR., in the Desegregation case dated 12/12/62

was designated for the

IS-X case file.

This was done because of

the information on the administrative pages of this report perti-

nent to the IS-X case, including the interview of Ray.

Upon receipt of Bureau airtel of 1/11/63, steps were

immediately taken to locate and interview RAY. This was accom-

plished on 1/14/63 and reported in the report of SA HOSTY dated

1/15/63 in the Desegregation case.

On instruction of the Bureau in 1ts letter of 1/24/63,

the IS-X case has now been closed, and activity of this group

will be

followed through contact with former DI-18-s.

The delays in connection with above matter, particularly

with respect to (1) and (2), are sincerely regretted

I most certainly will see that such delays are not chargeable

and

to me in the future.

With reference to Item (3), I feel my explanation

gives logical reason why RAY was not

interviewed in connection

with the Desegregation case, and

I regret the Bureau was not

previously fully informed as

to the reason RAY was not inter-

viewed in that case.

James P Nool.

- 2 -

NW 54464 DooId: 32285021 Page 2

---

