# docid-32310056

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10000

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-2508

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1969

• PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS A/O ASSOC, CRIMINAL ACT, MEETING

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32310056 Page 1

33

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

DAT5 J1-bF2917

1012AM DEFERRED 2/10 : J00

TO DIRECTOR, AND NEW YORK

VIA TELETYPE

FEB 1 01969

CODE

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

ENCIPHERED

FROM SAN FRANCISCO (92-1661)

2P

ANTIRACKETEERING

LA COSA MOSTRA - CONSPIRACY. ARE DO NEW YORK.

M1801

Mr

Mr.

Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

Mr. Gale

Vr. Ros

Mr. Suhivar

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room.

Mise Holmes

Miss Gandy

RE SAN FRANCISCO TELETYPE AND AIRIEL TO BUREAU, JANUARY

TWENTYEIGHT LAST.

ON FEBRUARY SEVEN LAST, SE THREE TWO ZERO EIGHT DASH PC

LA COIANOSTAN

ADMITTED MEMBERSHIP IN LA COSA NOSTRA (LEN) • ADVISED MADE

MEMBER SUMMER OF NINETEEN FIFTYEIGHT IN FAMILY OF "THREE FINGER

LA COST NOSTRA

BROWN" LUCHESE. IDENTIFIED GODFATHER

IN LEN AS PAUL VARIO, WHO

ALSO LATER BECAME SOURCE'S CAPO DECINA. STATED VARIO TOOK HIM

MEET A CAPO IN LUCHESE FAMILY IN BROOKLYN PRIOR TO INITI-

ATION•

"CAPO

DESCRIBED AS OWNER OF BAKERY, NAME UNKNOWN. SOURCE

ADVISED THIS CAPO IS NOI KNOWN ON THE STREET AND WAS REFERRED IO

BY VARIO AS "THE OLD MAN." SOURCE SAID HE SAW THIS CAPO ONE

OTHER TIME WHEN HE VISITED PAULIE HAMM, ANOTHER CAPO IN LUCHESE

FAMILY IN CHARGE "ÖF THE BRONX AND NOW DECEASED.

SOURCE ADVISED INITIATION TOOK PLACE IN UNION HALL NEXT.

TO FONTAINBLEAU FLOWER SHOP, BROOKLYN. PRESENT AT INITIATION

LAST NAME NANNOWN

WERE PAUL VARIO, BABE VARIO, PETE (LNU), WHOM SOURCE DESCRIBED :

LAST NAMEUNANO

ÁS "CUMPART"OF PAUL VARIO, AND CIRO CLNU)"

WHOM SOURCE DESCRIBED

AS CRIPPLE WITH LUNCHENETTE IN BROOKLYN. ALL WERE MEMBERS OF

LUCHESE FAMILY UNDER PAUL VARIO. *

A FEB I4 1969

PAGE ONE VELETYPED TO:

:92-6054=2508

2FEB20 1969,

REC:

Sanbor

DocId: 32310056 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot

DATPAQF- IW@017

PHONETIC

SOURCE IDENTIFIP". TADDO DE MARCÓ (PHY AS SLEPER IN GENEVESE

FAMILY FOSA NOSTRA!

OF LENN SAID TADDO IS GODFATHER IN LEN FOR JOEY DE

LAST NANGE PARHOWN

MARCO (NO APPARENI RELATIVE), FRANK CACCIATORE, AND PEPI (ENU),

ALL OF WHOM WERE MADE MEMBERS IN NINETEEN FIFTYSEVEN AT CEREMONY

PRESIDED OVER BY TADDO DEL, A CAPO IN GENEVESE FAMILY. CACCIATORE

LATER RECEIVED ASSIGNMENT TO KILL JOEY DE MARCO AND CARRIED

THIS OUT IN NINETEEN FIFTYNINE• SOURCE IDENTIFIED PEPI AS OWNER

OF CANDY SHOP ON SECOND AVENUE BETWEEN ONE ZERO EIGHT AND ONE

ZERO

NINE STREETS IN NEW YORK CITY•

SOURCE ADVISED FEW PEOPLE OUTSIDE OF WITNESSES IO CEREMONY

KNOW OF HIS MEMBERSHIP, WITH EXCEPTION OF "THE OLD MAN, " CARMINE

TRAMUNTI, WITH WHOM SOURCE HAS BEEN CLOSE FRIENDS FOR THIRTYFIVE

YEARS, AND JOHNNY ANGELO, MEMBER OF GAMBINO FAMILY, TO WHOM

SOURCE WAS

INTRODUCED AS MEMBER BY PAUL VARIO• SOURCE SAID

LUCHESE FAMILY DISCOURAGES DISSEMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP INFO,

diA COSA NOSTRA

EVEN TO OTHER LON FAMILIES•

SOURCE STATED PAUL VARIO DISPLEASED WITH HIM OVER SHYLOCK

LOANS INCURRED BY SOURCE. VARIO SEVERAL MONTHS AGO ATTEMPTED TO

REACH SOURCE THROUGH BROTHER OF SOURCE IN LAS VEGAS AND ARRANGE

FOR MEETING TO CLEAR MATTERS UP • SOURCE SUSPECTED HE WOULD BE

I KILLED AT MEETING AND DECLINED. SOURCE CLAIMS, HOWEVER,

POSSIBILITY EXISTS HE CAN RENEW

RELATIONSHIP WITH VARIO AND NEW

YORK LON MEMBERS IF SHYLOCK DIFFICULTY HANDLED.

LACOSANOSTAA

ADDITIONAL INFO FURNISHED BY SOURCE RE LEN MATTERS AND HI -

JACKING NEW YORK WILL BE FORWARDED AIRMAIL TO BUREAU AND NEW YORK.

END

NS

R RELAY

.:

FBI WASH DC

DocId: 32310056 Page 3

---

## Page 4

the John F. Kennedy Assassination. Records col

1-20174

"SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

2710/69

Through alertness and perseverance, Agents

of*

San Francisco Office developed

a new top

echelon member-source of La Cosa-Nostra, He is

from segment of the Lúchese "'family"

in New,

York City not previously penetrated and is

presently in hiding in San Francisco because

of substantial shylock loan in New York which he

has been unable to pay off. While he fears

being killed for this falure, he is attempting

through intermediaries to negotiate the indebted-

ness so as to enable him-to return to New York

and regstablish his relationships.

Of particular interest is his description

of his 1958 induction to orgánization which is

known to but a few.

In addition to a, handshake

and repeating an

oath which has generally been

standard in this ritual, informant and others at

this ritual, according to San Francisco Office,:

each had glass of wine from which they drank

half and dumped the remains ás being symbolic

that the ceremony and events taking place were

secret and would not be carried outside of the

room.

Informant being followed closely for

further developments

AAS :mfd

ghs

DocId: 32310056

Page 4

---

