# docid-32297762

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10220-10038

RECORD_SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 2-2173-223

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

{44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53932 Date:

08-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/21/1976

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8, NCK, 4 INDIVIDUALS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

05/14/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 53932 DocId:32297762

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PAGE' TWO MM. 2-469

CONCERNING FRANCISCO NUNEZ, ON AUGUSI 17, 1976 2A

CONFIDENTIAIL

SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABEL INFORMATION IN THE PAST, ADVISED

IHAT HE MET IN ROOM 905, DUPONI HOTEL, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WITH

ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA, MILITARY DIRECIOR OF BRIGADE 2506,

MEMBER OF CORU; MANUEL FERNANDEZ, INTERNATIONAL DIRECTOR

OF COLLECIIONS OF CURU; AND FRANCISCO E. NUNEZ, DIRECTOR

OF COLLECIIONS OF CORU IN VENEZUELA. HE STATED THAT

FRANCISCO E. NUNEZ IS A WHITE MALE CUBAN, LIGHT COMPLEXION,

AGE ABOUT 57, GRAY HAIR, 5'6", 14D POUNDS, SHOWS LOSS OF WEIGHI

• APPEARANCE, HAS LIVED 21 YEARS IN VENEZUELA, IS PRESIDENT

OF PRODUCTOS NUEVOS CA (COMPANIA ANONIMA) "PRONUCA", RESIDES

AT QUINIA (SIA) CALLE MADRID, NUMBER 6-13, LAS MERCEDES,

CARACAS, VENEZUELA, IELEPHONES 91-59-19 AND 91-76-55.

*IT IS BELIEVED THAT THIS PERSON IS IDENTICAL TO THE FRANCISCO

NUNEZ ARRESTED BY THE VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES CONCERNING

CAPTIONED MATTER.

FEND

ADMINISIRATIVE•

SOURCE IS MM 1337-S.

FBI HQ IS REQUESTED TO ADVISE LEGAI, CARACAS UF THE

ABOVE.

B T

Ge: Gree

HH 53932 DooId: 32297762 Page 2

---

