# docid-32335490

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/4/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90124-10048

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE:

03/06/1975

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

ALADDIN M. AL-TAYYAR

MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : . MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335490

Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Dot.

= CPTIONAL FORM NO: 10

MAY 1852 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFF) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

SECRET

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM ON to

ALL INFORMAITIR CONTEND DATE: WAR

NEREI B UNGASSIFICE

EXCERT WHENG SNOWH

$ 1975

SAC, NEW YORK

SUBJECT:

Hasshla.I95768.540/157

U.UR

3/26/98 mic

77787-282

CLASHIRT BY: 5668 SLO/GCL

R3 5 0 5 (cd)

skiipt

Üis

states; IINS;

ALADDIN M. AL-TAYYAR

IS-IRAQ

YBUFILE

105-263921)

ANYFILE

105-13718715

TRAQ MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS

IS- IRAC

C(NYFILE 105-21730)

This letter and enclosed IHM are being classified

"Secret" to protect sensitive sources utilized

and to prevent disclosure of sensitive nature of

this investigation regarding diplomatic personnel Y

• Re WFO airtel to the Director dated 2/5/75; New York nite

the Director dated 2/14/75; FBI HQ letter to New York dated

/23/75.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 8. copies and

for recipient

offices 2 copies each of an LHM regarding subject.

One copy

each_of enclosed. LHM being furnished locally to U.S. Customs

sand CIA-FRD.

(U)

The Special Agent observing the departure of CHARLES GOFF

from John F. Kennedy International Airport was SA DAVID E. VON HOLLE

The Special Agent who interviewed ROSSER SCOTT REEVES, III was

SA JAMES T. BURNETIUNCLOSUNI

4-Bureau

X12+62-

-Albany

(Encls.

(ERM)

REC 5

2-Alexandria

2-Atlanta

(Encls.

(RM) /ST-112

(105-5823)

FEncis. 2(51RM)

2-Boston

(Encls.

2-Chicago

(Encls.

SECRET

05-26398-38(31

Classified ly

Exempt from

Date of Declassificatio

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

XEncls.

DEGLARGE SAG SRSAND/OR

2-Salt Lake City

(105-2241 Senc1s. 2) (RM)

RELEASE OF CIA IMEORMIATIOR 9.19.98

1105-128435) (Encls. 2)

(RM THIS DOCUMENT

319.98

1-New York

1-New York

(105-137187) (5)

NON-SYMBOL SOVACE FAST, AYTACHEDTMKH

PeRS

JTB : mfw

(26)

5010-108

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll' Savings Plant

DocId: 32335490

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 105-137187

NY

105-21730

Telephone toll records concerning the residence telephone

of AL-TAYYAR were obtained

through the Security Supervisor,

New York Telephone Company.

The first confidential source mentioned in the enclosed

LHM

isfY @45671-IA.]

(S)

second confidential source mentioned in the enclosed

LHM

-(5) -

_the information of recipient offices, first-captioned

ubject is the First Secretary of the Iraq Mission to the United(S

ations: He arrived in New York on 5/13/73 following assignment

(S for the iraq Government) in Montreal and Ottawa, Canada. Investigation

to date indicates that at least since the Summer of 1974, subject

has expressed an interest in the purchase of weapons, including

silencers:

He has made some legitimate purchases of revolvers

(Safor export to Irag

On 12/21 and 22/74, the subject and an

discussed the transfer of

in New York.

These "units" may have been destined for use

in the United States or for transportation to Montreal, Canada.

On 1/18775, WILLIAMY PIKIAN, an Individual of unknownCs

SHAKIR underwent medical consultation in New York for lan equilibrium (sl

disorder. (APIKIAN made contact with several arms dealers (SJ

in New York, as well as with CHARLES GOFF, American International

Corporation, Salt Lake

ke City, Utah,

TASX FORGE

REVIEWED SY

7-7-98

European representatives

of U.s..arms firms. in connection with

weapons. purchases.

For the informationof FBI HQ, on 2/18/75, SA MICHAEL FAHY,

U.S. Customs, New York, checked the records of the Lanas Import

Company, 41 West 30th St., NY, NY, under the guise of a routine

examination. tanss records and interview of oscanoel, i

indicated that the firm does business

With many diplomats,

especially from Latin America. Among

the transactions indicated on the books of Lanas were the

ofugets of wine from the Algerian Mission tolthe United Celivery

Nations to other United Nations Missions during several days

(S]

prior to Christmas, 1974. These deliveries would appear to

32. 1

SECRET

+: 7.

-2-

DocId: 32335490

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Ny 105-137187

NS 105-21730

1(5)

provide a plausible explanation for the presence of the Lanas

truck in the vicinity of the Iraq Mission on 12/23/74DY SA FAHY S

further advised that U.s.

Customs border officials have been

testices

Fraison

(S)

ABDUL KARIM AT SHAIKHLY, currently Iraq Ambassador and Permanent SET

Representative to the UN, in Kuwait in 1971.

Of SADUN SHAKIR, Director of General Intelligence in Irag.

On 2/4/75, CLYDE BRYANTE, U.S. State Department,

telephonically

contacted the NYO and advised that the travels of CHARLES GOFF

to the Middle East for the purpose of demonstrating the use of L5

firearms may constitute a violation of Title 22, US Code,

Section 1934, and Title 22, Code of Federal Regulations,

sections 121-128. BRYANTE further indicated that United States

Customs Department, Investigations Unit, handles investigations

for the State Department in connection with violations of munitions

control regulations, such as the above-mentioned provisions.

As indicated in wro airtel to the Director dated 2/5/75,

entral records of INs were checked with negative results b

FO re APIKIAN and SHAKIR. S

A search of INS records per D. F. LEONE. Records and

Information Section, 20 West Broadway, NYC, re SHAKIR and LAPIKIAN

proved negative on 2/14/75.

REQUEST OF FBI HQ

FBI HQ is requested to furnish NYO with any information

in Bureau files re

NATIK SHAKIR and (WILLIAM APIKIAN. Y≤

FBI HQ is also requested to advise the NYO of the status

of NYO request for additional coverage of the subject as set forth

in FBI HQ nitel to New York dated 1/24/75 and New York nitel

to Director dated 1/30/75.

FBI HQ is requested to contact at headquarters level

representatives of U.S. Customs Service and Alcohol, Tobacco

and Firearms Unit of

the U.S. Treasury Department to determine

the status of any current or recent investigation relating to

GEORGE SALESKY Or ROSSER SCOTT, REEVES, III, or their firm,

MITCHELLYWERBELL IVe or their firm, Defense Systems, of Powder

Springs, Georgia,

which may relate to instant investigation

SECRET

-3-

DocId: 32335490

Page 4

---

## Page 5

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Wote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

dio it:

NY

105-137187

NY

105-21730

(5)

2/14/75, NY 14567-IA, who has had social contact with AL-TAYYAR )LS

in the past,

has expressed a willingness to cooperate with

the FBI in this matter.

However, NYO does not feel that FBI HQ

proposal set forth in referenced letter of 1/23/75, would provide

the answers concerning the ultimate use for which weapons

are being sought by AL-TAYYARJand (APIKIAN. AL-TAYYAR would CS.

not necessarily reveal these ultimate purposes to a prospective

supplier of arms.

Before any indication of this ultimate use

might be furnished to the Special Agent acting as an arms

dealer, the Agent might have to engage in a prolonged relationship

with the subject and actually provide large quantities of

sophisticated weapons, the use of which would be beyond FBI .

control.

the cover suggested in referenced letter

by a Special Agent under suitable cover is recommended by FBI HQ,

the NYO suggests that the Special Agent might utilize the cover

of an American businessman dealing in machined metal parts, having

extensive contacts. both within the arms industry and with

weapons to be discussed without involving their uncontrolled

delivery to the subject.

In order to more expeditiously resolve this matter, the

NYO requests FBI HQ authorization for the following approach {4)

'As previously noted, while serving in(Canada in 1972, the LS.

subject approached a representative of the United States Department

of State and made: inquiry concerning possible political asylum for

a "friend" who was unhappy with the current (Fragi regime. In thisLS

connection, he was later contacted in Montreal byga representatives

of CIA During this contact, he continued to use the guise of

speaking for a "friend", and indicated that this "friend" was

willing to collaborate with the U.S. Government by inserting

himself in an anti-regime plotting group.

The NYO feels that the

subject should be approaghed away from the Iraq Mission or otherl S!

diplomatic establishments under secure conditions by a Special AgentS

or Agents who would not identify themselves to the subject.

could then make inquiry. concerning the current feelings

subject's alleged, "friend" regarding cooperation with the U.s.

Govern-

ment. - Depending, upon AL-TAYYAR's reaction, the Special Agents

(s)

SECRET

-4-

DocId: 32335490

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

"SECRET

NY 105-137187

NY 105-21730

might discuss

the U.S. Government's interest in the influx of

sophisticated weapopry into the Middle East? In view of theCk

fact that AL-TAYYAR previously initiated contact with U.s.S

Government officials in Montreal, it is not felt that he wouldl s

be in a position to make a complaint regarding this approach

through Iragi or United Nations channels. Since the Special (S_

Agents would not identify themselves,CAL-TAYYAR could not, in anylS_

event, make specific allegations against either the FBI or

-the U.S. Government.

approaching AL-TAYYAR in order to develop him for overseas S

intelligence purposes

contact of AL-TAYYAR bY

ASIE FBI NO does not wish to authorizes]

special Agents, it might consider

giving CIA permission

to approachAL-TAYYAR Jand requesting CIACS]

to furnishöthe FBI with

any information he provides regarding

instant investigation

LEADS

ALBANY

At Syracuse, New York

(1) Will identify subscribers to 315-(A71-951Jand 315-(446-4766J(5]

ooth of which were called during the first week of August, 1974,

charged to the home telephone CS.

(2) Will check office indices and appropriate sources for

ny indication that the subscribers are involved with eithe:

rms dealers or Arab or radical political organizations. ( S

ALEXANDRIA

(1) At Arlington and Falls Church, Virginia

Will conduct the same investigation requested of ALBANY

in connection with telephone numbeis 703f521-7245) and 703(941-3419 LS

called 10/22/74 and 7/31

74, respectively, from the subject's

home telephone number.

SECRET

-5-

DocId: 32335490 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY

NY

105-13718

105-21730

LEADS (CONT'D)

ATLANTA

At Atlanta, Powder Springs, and Marietta, Georgia

(1)

for the information of Atlanta, on 1/11775, NY 2340-s CS_

advised

that WILLIAM APIKIAN and AL-TAYYAR discussed dealinã (S

with a father and son in Powder Springs, Georgia, indicating

that the father wanted to travel to (Jordan)and Iraq. Atlanta( S)

is requested to attempt to determine whether MITCHETL WERBELL,

OX MITCHELL WERBELI, IV have recently traveled to the Middle Fast. (5]

(2) Will establish liaison with. local offices of U.s. Customs

and Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and advise the NYO and FBI HQ

on a continuing basis of the progress of investigation being

conducted by those agencies regarding the activities of

GEORGE SALESKY, of Military Armament Corporation, and MITCHELL

WERBELL, III and MITCHELL WERBELL, IV, of Defense Systems.

Will coordinate investigation with these other agencies in

attempt to determine the nature

_and extent of any exportation

or domestic sale of weapons to Arab'individuals, groups or (5]

governments.

BOSTON

At Lenox, Massachusetts

Will conduct same investigation as requested of Albany

in connection with telephone number 413f637-3525Jcalled from ES~

subject's home phone on 7/27/74.

At Springfield, Massachusetts

Will check indices and contact established sources

regarding E. W. REITHER, of Smith and Wesson, and advise the

NYO whether it is felt that contact with REITHER might jeopardize

the confidentiality of the inquiry concerning the subject.

CHICAGO

At Chicago, Illinois

For the information of Chicago, on 1/20 and 21/75,

NY (2340)s indicated that an

individual

SECRET

- 6

DocId: 32335490 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY 105-137187

NY 105-21730

LEADS (CONT' D)

CHICAGO (CONT ' D)

(1) Will conduct same investigation requested of Albany

Er connection with telephone number 3126784-7877] contacted (SJ

from subject's home telephone on 11/5/74

MIAMI

At Miami, Florida

(1) Will conduct same investigation requested of Albany-

in connection with telephone number 305(865-7511) called (

12/23/74 from New York, and telephone number 305531-9440 CSJ

from which collect calls made to subject's residence on 8/2 and 3/7415

(2) Will, through Southern Bell "Toll'Library", POB 440100,

obtain identifying information regarding following calls charged

to (AI TAYYAR'S residence phone 212-879-8023 S

lo syracuse,- New

315+471-9517

'rom Miami, Florida

dentification Number JK 190388757(5

To Syracuse,

315(471-951105 100

From Miami, Florida on 8/3/74

Identification Number JK 20030473](S)

To syracuse, New York

315-471-951775

From Miami, Florida, on

8/3/74

tient aration amber + 2005520365 fee

To Syracuse,

York

315-471-9517 (S

rom. Mzami. mortoao

dentification ninet

315+446-47667 C5/057

To Syracuse,

New

From Tampa Florida,

SECRET

-7-

DocId: 32335490 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY L05-27130 (S

LEADS (CONT'D)

NEWARK

At Jersey City and South Orange, New Jersey

For the information of Newark, subject has made numerous

calls to 201(868-4794, a number previously determined to beLS.

the residence of ISSAM ABI RAFEH and his wife, LOLA RODRIGUEZ

RATEH, 2200 Moulevard Fast apartment (15-E, Noren Fergen, New ES

ill conduct same lead as set out for Albany in connectio

with telephone numbers 201f762-8368

ind 201+451--8041/called/ S

7/24/74 and 8/20/74, respectively.

NEW HAVEN

At Torrington and Ridgefield, Connecticut

Will conduct same investigation as requested of Albany

in connection with telephone number 203-482-8480called 7/27/74(SJ

and 9/6/74 and telephone number 203-438-3569) called 8/15/74

SALT LAKE CITY

At Salt Lake City, Utah

Will attempt to discreetly determine whether CHARLES GOFE

has returned from the Middle Eastor, if he has not, when he L SJ

1s expected to re-enter the United States.

WASHINGTON FIELD

At Washington, D.C:

noted above, neither INS Central Files, Washington, D.C.,

ecords Section, NY, Ny,.

SHAKIR MAHMUD AL-TIKRITID Or (WILLIAM APIKIAN? Investigation has CS.

failed to develop(APIKIANis exact nationality, but he has given (S

an address in France and also claims to have a residence in ES

WFO- is also

regarding any applications received for visas for the above

individuals.

SECRET

-8-

DocId: 32335490 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

NY

105-137187

NY

105-21730

(S)

LEADS (CONT' D)

WASHINGTON FIELD (CONT'D)

so done a roma in a to Chicago oute a terest ESS

(3) Will recontact Office of Munitions Control, US Department

of State to determine if any applications have been received

in the last 8 months from Military Armament Corporation or •

Defense Systems

whịch cou

involved in this

claimed that an

indiviatal, possibly NITCHELL WERBELL, IV, Of

Defense Systems, claimed that the US Government had turned

down

a

request for a shipment of arms

, (4) Will also determine if proper documentation and

authorization were obtained in connection with the .45 caliber

automatic ordered through John Jovino Company of NYC and

ascertain the composition

and authorization regarding the

shipment made to New York by Smith and Wesson, Springfield,

Massachusetts, as mentioned in enclosed LHM.

SECRET

-9*

DocId: 32335490

Page 10

---

