# docid-32292258

## Page 1

' JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10209-10034

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-350

Released under the John

T. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

PARISH, JOHN W.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/25/1961

PAGES:

36

SUBJECTS :

GAL, BKG, RES, B/F INT, ASSOC, TRA, ILLEGAL ACT,

INVEST, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF RCMP

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO RCMP

v9.1

HH 45679

364

DocId: 32292258

Page 1

---

## Page 2

2-1-59)

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

GUS

ALEX,

Aka.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

10/25/61

REPORT MADE BY

JOHN W. PARISH

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

8/30 - 10/23/61

TYPED BY

man

ANTI-RACKETEERING

REFERENCES:

Report of SA ROBERT A. COOK dated 9/11/61 at Chicago.

Minneapolis airtels to Chicago dated 8/29 and 9/18/61.

(Interoffice)

-P-

LEADS

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. Will continue to conduct and

report investigation

concerning the background and activities of

GUS ALEX in accordance with Bureau letter to New York dated

November 27, 1957 entitled, "TOP HOODLUM PROGRAM. ANTI-RACKETEERIN

INFORMANTS

CG T-2 is CG 6443-C contacted by SAs WILLIAM A. MEINCKE

and JOSEPH G. SHEA 8/3/61 through 9/25/61.

CG T-3 is CG

6450-C*.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau (92

Cress

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92. 3182-356 REC-98

3 - Chicago (92-373)

7. NOV 2 1961

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY,

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD. -..

HOW FWD..

BY.

11/2/61

0-6

ALA

154168 NOV 8

NH 45679

DooId: 32292258

Page 2

NOTATIONS

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

STAT. SPET

902-10937

---

## Page 3

JFK Act 6 (4)

CG 92-373

Informants continued

CG T-6 1s PCI |

contacted by SAs ROBERT

A. COOK and JOHN W. PARISH 8/4/61 through 10/11/61.

CG T-8 is JOHN I. HOWE, partner, North American

Detective Agency, Chicago, Illinois, contacted by SA ROBERT

A. COOK on 9/14/61. (Upon request)

CG T-12 is LILA FERCHAK, Manager, apartment building

at 1216 North Astor Street, Chicago, Illinois, contacted by

SA ROBERT A. COOK on 9/5/61. (Upon request)

CG T-14 is an annoymous

source.

CG T-14 is SANDY SMITH, Reporter, Chicago Tribune,

Chicago, Illinois, contacted by SA JOHN W. PARISH on 9/25/61.

CG T-16 is PCI|

contacted by SA JOHN W.

PARISH on 9/27/61 and 10/9/61.

CG T-17 is

PCI, contacted

by SA EDWARD H. NEHLS on 9/6/61 and 9/29/61.

CG T-18 is CG 6272-C contacted by SA WILLIAM F.

ROEMER on 9/28/61.

CG T-19 is GEORGE E. Q. JOHNSON,-Jr., Attorney,

105 West Adams Street, Chicago, Illinois,

contacted by

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER on 9/30/61 and 10/10/61. (Upon request)

CG T-20 is PCI

contacted by SA PAUL

E. MARUM on 9/15/61.

- B* -

COVER PAGE

908-10034

HH 45679

DocId: 32292258

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-37.3

IV. PLACES FREQUENTED BY GUS ALEX

Andres Restaurant

CG T-2 advised on September 7, 1961 that ALEX and

other Chicago area "hoodlums" meet on occasion at the Andres

Restaurant, which is located on Superior Street in Chicago's

near North

side.

CG T-2 advised Andres is a Greek individual

who formerly owned Spiro's Restaurant and that GEORGE BRAVOS,

a close associate of ALEX, used to work for ANDRES at Spiro's.

Mike Fish's Restaurant

CG T-3 advised that GUS ALEX, EDDIE VOGEL

and BUTCH

LADON, Chauffeur of ALEX, were present

at Mike Fish's Restaurant,

Ontario and Rush Street, Chicago, on the evening of september

27, 1961.

CG T-18 advised on September 28, 1961 that on the

previous evening he had met at Mike Fish's Restaurant with

GUS ALEX, EDDIE VOGEL, BUTCH LADON and one ROCKY, whose last

name he could not recall. CG T-18 said ALEX was interested

in his testimony before the Mc Carran Committee and specific

questions asked the informant by Senators relative to an

alleged partnership between ALEX and the informant. CG T-18

said he facetiously accused ALEX of telling people that he

and the informant were partners which ALEX vehmently denied.

CG T-18 advised ALEX said, "Now you can realize what I've

been going through for the past three and a half years since

the FBI started on me. Now you can understand."

MGM Lounge

CG T-3 advised that on the evening of September 27,

1961, GUS ALEX, EDDIE VOGEL, BUTCH LADON and SUZANNE MAIER,

current girl friend of ALEX, visited the MGM Lounge, 1839

- 15 -

901-10034

NW 45679 DooId: 32292258 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CG 92-373

These individuals did not bring any fish back, and

said they were not shipping any back but said fishing was

very good at Ball Lake.

They also advised customs men

they

had not been to Ball Lake before and this was the first

time they had met BARNEY LAMM.

GUS ALEX was carrying what

appeared to be an 8 mm movie camera.

At about 12:25 PM, on August 24, 1961, ROBERT:

PALMER, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Fort Frances, Canada

advised he had received word from his

fellow employee RON

BROWN at Kenora that subject and his companions had been at

Ball Lake with a SAM TAYLOR and another man and woman.

few minutes later, STANLEY MEYER, United States Customs Agent

advised he had just checked a metallic purple 1961 Pontiac,

four-door, into the United States and this car had an Illinois

License,

3 people in the car, and the driver was a SAM TAYLOR.

The car

and riders had been given the usual cursory check

and no additional data was obtained except that these indivi-

duals had been to Ball Lake.

Efforts were immediately cO-

ordinated between United States Customs, Border Patrol,

International Falls Police Department, and this Bureau to

locate the car in the United States.

It was located travel-

ing South and the car was stopped at Orr, Minnesota, 55 miles

from International Falls. Here the individuals apparently stopped.

to stretch and went into

the gas station. Also at this point

the United States Customs and United States Border Patrol made

contact with the passengers. SAM TAYLOR, the driver, did the

talking for the group. He was very arrogant and refused to

be searched or his car checked as he had been entered into

the United States at International Falls.

Customs officer FRANK

DURZENSKI immediately telephonically checked with his office

and was

advised he had the authority to examine the car and

occupants thoroughly even at this point and also that SAM

TAYLOR was listed on the "U. S. Attorney General's Racket

List." He also verified that GUS ALEX and VOGEL are listed

in the

United States Customs Lookout Book.

The Pontiac had Illinois License GH 8848. Customs

determined the registered owner to

be a DOMINIC SIBILANO,

5541 West Belmont, Chicago, Illinois, a furniture dealer.

- 27 -

+ 92-31877350

NH 45679 DocId: 32292258 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

Customs Officer DURZENSKI stated he seemed to

recall that SIBILANO was somehow associated

with a, name

not recalled, undertaker in Chicago about 22 to 3 years ago

and this undertaker is now in jail for "dipping" into the

estate of some woman he had in the mortuary.

PERKOVICH mentioned to DURZENSKI that he and

Mr. and Mrs. TAYLOR had been at Ball Lake for the past

nine days.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police PALMER advised on

August 24, 1961 that LAMM is a landed immigrant in Canada

but not a Canadian citizen.

On August 21, 1961, SA KARL M. ZEIMES noted

subject ALEX was met at the Minneapolis Airport Terminal by

a person described as white, male, late 40s or early 50s,

dark complexion, approximately 6 feet tall, about 200 pounds,

wearing small black check sport coat and

carrying tan top

coat and medium-sized dark leather bag.. This person and ALEX

left on North Central Flight Number 683, 11:45 AM for

International Falls, Minnesota.

On August 31, 1961, Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Officer ROBERT PALMER,

Fort Frances, Ontario, Canada, advised

that Corporal RON BROWN of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police

Detachment at Kenora, Canada, had just been transferred to

the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Detachment at Fort William,

Canada, and he may be somewhat late in furnishing whatever

information

he had regarding subject's trip to Ball Lake.

On September 1, 1961, Corporal BROWN was telephonically

contacted at Fort William, Canada, at which time he advised

that he was in the process of transferring and he would

furnish what information he had in the near future. On

September 15, 1961, information was received from Corporal

BROWN that he was able to develope only very little information

at Ball Lake in this matter.

He did determine that a phone

call was made by subject ALEX to a HARRY HOLLEY, telephone

number PI 8-0939, Chicago, Illinois. This call was billed

- 29 -

92-51829330

NW 45679 DocId: 32292258 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 92-373

to the camp and was paid for by ALEX along with his account

when he left.

BROWN states

that BARNEY LAMM'S Ball Lake

Lodge is probably the best in the Kenora area, rates being

around $40.00 a day.

LAMM is an American from around Detroit

Lakes, Minnesota,

but has now become a naturalized Canadian.

BROWN states that LAMM has co-operated with him on many

occasions and he believes LAMM and his staff to be of the

highest order. BROWN stated that there appeared to be

no reason for instant trip by ALEX to Ball Lake except for

ALEX and his associates to engage in some fishing and

relaxation. BROWN estimated that the bill for ALEX and

his associates came to approximately $300.00 on an individual.

basis for the time that they were at the camp.

He was not

able to determine how the bill was paid. He could furnish

no information regarding any individual in ALEX's group

having been called by the name of RIP.

surveillance was conducted on subject GUS ALEX,

"BUTCH" LADON, and VOGEL at the Wold Chamberlain Municipal

Airport on August 24, 1961 by SA BRYAN J. MOGEN and SA KARL

M. ZEIMES.

All three individuals arrived at the terminal

at 3:42 PM on a North Central Flight from International Falls,

Minnesota.

The three then went directly to the United Air-

lines ticket counter where LADON made arrangements for them.

to leave on the 4:00 Flight. While LADON was making these

arrangements, VOGEL took three cardboard cartons about one

foot square

and a red and white plastic bag and gave them to

a colored porter who placed the items in locker number 201.

While this was going on,

GUS ALEX stood in the background.

I conference then insued between the three individuals after

which time LADON returned to the ticket counter and cancelled

the previous flight arrangements and made arrangements to

leave on Flight number 404, which was scheduled to leave

Minneapolis at 5:00 PM and arrive at Midway Airport, Chicago,

at 7:00 PM.

LADON made the arrangements under the name of

CRANE and WALSH.. All three individuals then hurriedly left

the airport, got into a yellow cab in front, Minnesota

license 3U5112.

- 30 -

90-92-3182-350

NW 45679 DocId: 32292258 Page 7

---

