# docid-32316650

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10350-10092

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 2-1787-9

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 12/17/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

GERALD PATRICK HEMMING

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT; INC LHM

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32316650

Page 1

8

---

## Page 2

FIC: 36 fRey? 12613-56)

FBI

Date:

DEC 1 7 1962

Transmit the following in

Hi ON 10

Via

AIRTEL

SEC

5648. S00. /051

DECLAS

eno.

2-M-40: (JEK)

(Type in plain text or code)

CIA

*A IRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing),! i

---# THIS DOCUMENT.

RP 115-98

54Q

Anilet

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI

SAC, MIAMI (2-341)

POSSIBLE ANTI-CASTRO RAID

- ON CUBA SCHEDULED FOR ABOUT

1121-951

DECEMBER 16, 1962

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Classified iou

Declassify on:

DO NOT DISSEMINATE

ReButel 12-10-62, to Miami.

Enclosed herewith are nine copies

of a

letterhead

memorandum dated and aptioned as

above.

MM T-1 is

CIA teletype, dated 12-8-62,

classified Secret.

(u)

MM T-2 is

MM 639-S.

hind

COSTA

ASSIFIED

SHOWN

12.1

N

INS, U. S. Coast Guard and other established

sources were contacted negatively on 12-11-62.

Mr. WALLACE SHANLEY, U.S.

Customs, Miami

advised that in the absence of a CIA request to do

otherwise, f. S. Customs wlll stop this group if it U)

appears it is going on a military expedition.

Mr. WILLIAM FINCH, CIA, Miami, advised that

information contained in reButel obviously originated

from CIA "up north" and that the Miami CIA office had

no further information concerning it.

T, 0-6

піс - 9)

xja/63

2-M.1 am 1

Bureau

RJD/al

(5)

ENCLOSU.

FREE, 35

9

12 DEG

T509

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL

Approved:

Special Ag

Charge

Toning mádo

920/19

DSC/.ma

for reviow at FBIHQ by.

ASCH. EP ending

Per

2-1788

NW 54464 DooId: 32316650 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 2-341

SECRET

MM 639-S has been instructed to follow this

matter closely.

The Miami Office will fürther identify CARLOS

(LNU), OSCAR OLIVA and HUMBERIO DIAZ and continue

investigation in this matter.

The Miami Office will keep U. S. Customs,

Coast Guard and the Bureau advised.

The enclosed letterhead memorandum is being

classified Secret inasmuch as

information furnished by

MM I-1 is so classified.

HH 54464 DocId: 32316650

Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

No Foreign Dissem

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

AND/GR

J-JAMATION

RELE

AA THIS DOCUMENT.

KP 1-15-48

RE:

SEC

Miami, Florida

DE0 1 7 1962

- Background Use Only

1-21-95

Classified by Sp&h

Declassify on:

POSSIBLE ANTI-CASTRO RAID

ON CUBA SCHEDULED FOR

-K)

ABOUT DECEMBER 16, 1962

MM T-1, another Government agency which conducts

intelligence investigations, on December 8, 1962, advised

that an untested source reported on December t, 1902, that

a new raid was being planned by an anti-CASTRO Cuban

exile

organization and the raid

I was to take place on about

December 16, 1962. (

И)

MM I-I explained that CARIOS

XARRAGA, former

owner of a sugar mill in las Villas Province, Suba, and

Alpha 66 supporters were planning to help in this

operation.

ROBERTO PARSON and JUAN ESPINOSA are also involved, and the

boat to be used is located at Marathon Key.

The boat

reportedly belongs to ZARRAGA and the group involved in the

ISR

proposed raid is generally the same as that which shot and

sunk a Cuban patrol boat on October 13, 1962.

In this raid

two Cuban militia men were captured from the sinking patrol

5668 500

boat and brought to the United states.

MM T-I advised that

(OFK)

there are indications PARSON and ESPINOSA were crew members

of the vessel which sank the Cuban patrol boat on October 13,

1962.

BY

DECLASSIFIED

14

It

AHRENS, District Director, Immigration and Naturalization

Service

(INS),

Miami, advised that two Cuban milltia men

had been brought that morning from the British Bahama

Islands by a U. S. Coast Guard helicopter.

Mr. AHRENS

stated six men

who were aboard the attacking vessel were

scheduled to arrive at Key West, Florida,

on October 14,

1962, aboard a U. S. Coast Guard vessel and these six

were identified as:

:

DAS

All.

REVIEWED

ON

9/4/9

lal

REL

E IN FULL

SWJFK TASK FORCENUEL QUIZA DOCAL

2728 N.Ec

2nd Avenue

Apartment B-5

Miami, Florida

VEN!

100 CORTAEER

LASSIFIED

HERE SHOWN

RELEA

iN PART

10KO- Pot

eign Dissem/

2-178

E. I /Background Use Only

Group

d from automatic

CATTR

donatenins and derlassinastion

NH 54464

DooId: 32316650

Page 4

---

## Page 5

No Foreign DissemS E C R

POSSIBLE ANTI-CASTRO RAID

ON CUBA SCHEDULED FOR

ABOUT DECEMBER 16, 1962

/Background Use Only

Cubite

MOR RUIZ

1925N. Wa 28th Street

Apartment 5

"Miami,

- Florida

JORGE RODRIGUEZ TRIANA

776 N. W. 3rd

Street

Miami, Florida

ROBERTO BARSON KAMIREZ

34755.

"IstAvenue™

Apartment

6

Miami,

Florida

JUAN.

ESPINOSAL CONZALEZ....

-1011-N

W. 14th

•Terrace

Miami, Florida

MANUEL, CASANOVA RODRIGUEZ

486. 9th

Avenue

Apartment 1R

New York,

New York

MM T-2,

who has been Involved In Cuban revolutionary

activities for the past six years and who has furnished rellable

Information in the past, advised on October 22, 1962, that

six Cubans who participated in the raid against Cuba on

October 13, 1902, contacted GERALD PATRICK ENMING, AmerIcan

soldier of

fortune, presently residing in Miami, Florida

MM T-2 explained that this group of six individuals met with

HEMMING at a residence located at 6th Avenue

on N. W. 3rd

Street, Miami, where these

six Cubans claimed they planned

to go on another mission in the near future.

They claimed

to have three boats, a small quantity of weapons and planned

prison in Cuba

to teack hen sehld led to be executed ehey aid not song

to lberate 65 prisoners

where they kept their boats but claimed they need 2000

gallons of gasoline in addition to some 1000 gallons of gas

that had been promised to them.

The group further clalmed

2.

SECR

No Foreign Dissem

/Background Use Only

NW 54464 DooId: 32316650 Page 5

---

