# docid-32322751

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90005-10013

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-126101-19

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

40-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

JOSEPH MOLINA

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INSERT

V9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32322751 Page 1

---

## Page 2

DI 100-9847

On May 6, 1959, a political meeting was held in Dallas

at 7:30 p.n.; at which time several CP members

and CP sympathizers

were present. JOE MOLINA was also present.

There were approximately

fifty persons at this meeting.

(WILLIAM J. LOWERY, JX., 5/11/59)

On May 12, 1959, a meeting of the GI Forum was held in

Dallas.

JOE MOLINA, chairman, brought up the subject of the Vickery

Park swirming pool.

MOLINA stated that several altar boys from the

Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Dallas had gone to the Vickery Park

swinming pool' and were refused entrance.

It was decided that a

committee from the GI Forum should contact the management of the

swimming pool.

(WILLIAM J. LOWERY, JX., 6/8/59)

On August 5, 1962, a meeting of the GI Forum was held at

the Mexico City Restaurant, Dallas.

Among those present was JOE

MOLINA, District Chairman, District 9 of the American GI Forum.

(WILZIAN I. LOWERY, J8., 8/29/62)

On November 26, 1963, & Dallas CP member was in contact

with AUGUSTIN ESTRADA, identified as leader of the CP in Dallas and

Fort worth area, at which time they discussed the fact that JOE

MOLINA, an ex-GI Forum chainan, had been questioned with regard

to LEE HARVEY OSWALD, the alleged assassin of President JOHN E. '

KENNEDY.

At this time it was remarked how conservative MOLilA was

and it was wondered why he was questioned.

(DI I-3, 12/4/63)

FELIX BOTELLO and JOE LANDIN, during the period of cheir

affiliation with the American GI Forum,

were also members of the CP

and were in the American GI Forun upon

instructions from AUGUSTIN

ESTRADA, identified as a leader in the CP in the Dallas and Fort

Worth area.

File 5-86.

_.. (WILLIAM J. LOWERY, JI., 7/17/64)

2557136101-19

INCLOSURE arginal onse 7

NW 54462 DooId:32322751

Page 2

---

