# docid-32309310

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10298-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY. FILE NUMBER:

29-31889-176

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DE

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/27/1963

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

• RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

10/21/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS :

REFERRED TO DOJ, INC A/T

N9.1

NW 45712 DocId: 32309310 Page 1

37

---

## Page 2

11/29/63

Airtel

5 Me

To: SAC, Detroit

(29-1432)

REC- 34

Fron: Director,

FBI

(29-31889-17€

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE,

AL.

FRA; ITSP: ME;

(00:

Detroit)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DARE / 0- /1-445Y508 mAC/KSR

(JFIC)

Re Detroit airtel dated 11/27/63.

LiM enclosed with Detroit airtel dated 11/22/63 1s

being

disseminated in its present form; however, in your next contact

with Departnent Attorney William French you should resolve the

points raised by the Bureau in its airtel of 11/26/63 as to whether

or not a need exists for concealing either French's identity as thei

perse a treach a bout in tutore te identity of l

as French's

source in future Lille.

luture communications furnishing this, type. information

you should clearly set forth the date and manner under which such

information was obtained.

1 - Chicago

(29-1999) (Info)

. OTHER 4

LRK: jtt

(5) 10

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Roo

Holmes

Gandy..

MAILED. 2

NOV ZD 1963

COMM-FBI

O DEG 6

MAIL ROOM

NW 45712 DocId: 32309310 Page 2

---

## Page 3

• FDS 6 (Rev.012-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

11/27/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AM

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr..

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Gale..

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (29-31889)

FROM: SAC; DETROIT (29-1432) (P)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

DOMINICK EDWARD BARTONE, aka; ET AL

FRA; ITSP; MF; FBW; CONSPIRACY

(00: DETROIT)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE 10-11-94 BY 318 MACKSK

JFK)

ReBuairtel 11/26/63.

Information set out in Detroit LHM dated 11/22/63 was made

vailable at Detroit on 11/21/63 by Department Attorne

which an a vas die ated by an undated eliad moo nee

which he said was dictated by

Jon 11/19/63

concerning a meeting with Joseph F. Verhelle on 11/18/63.,

Mr. French requested that the information be summarized in

the same manner as in three previous letterhead memoranda

(dated 11/7,8,and 12/63) containing information from the

same source.

Mr. French had previously requested that

identity be concealed because of the confidential

basis upon which the information had been furnished to him

and the sensitive nature of the matter in which

the Department was seeking[

I cooperation, particularly

the possibility of an attempt to influence the judge or jury

'in the forthcoming trial of James R. Hoffa at Chicago.

Mr. French advised that on 11/22/63

would be in

telephonic contact with French or Department Attorney Thomas

McKeon at Detroit, and it would be

known whether Verhelle

had confirmed arrangements to meet

in Chicago on

11/25/63. Mr. French left Detroit before there was any further

discussion with him concerning the proposed LHM.

MY •

McKeon

advised on 11/22/63 that no further word had been

received

by him from

the proposed meeting with

Verhelle on 11/25/63.

Mr. French's remarks on 11/21/63.

Approved:

3 - Bureau

1 - Detroit

VGW/ vW

(4)

" 7 t. 32-194

AN . Sent

Special Agent in Charge

REC. 31

22-31889-164

42 DEC & 1903

NW 45712 DocId: 32309310 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

DE 29-1432

Inasmuch as the Bureau has advised in reairtel

that the LHM will be disseminated only to the Criminal

Division of the Department, there is no known reason for

identity to be concealed, other than Mr. French's

original request, as mentioned above. Mr. French probably

will not be available at Detroit for further discussion of

this point prior to next week. If the Bureau desires to

withhold dissemination of the LHM until that time, it will

this teme tod isclosim whether there en any object in at

this time to disclosingL

if there is no objection by him,

identity in the LHM, and

an amended LHM will be

submitted

immediately.

Otherwise it is believed the LHM

could be disseminated in its present form.

OTHER 4

2

522-10n89

NW 45712 DocId: 32309310 Page 4

---

