# docid-32317801

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10355-10004

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-731-234, 233

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO : PH

TITLE :

DATE: 07/30/1962

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

RUSSELL A. BUFALINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32317801

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7/30/62

PLAIN

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SAG, PHILADELPHEA (92-64ID

SAG, NEW YORK (92-731)

SUBJECE: RUSSELL ALFRED BUEALINO aka

AR

Re New York latter to Philadelpale, 7/27/62.

The informacion fumiched by NY 3485-64 on 517162.

has again been re-evaluced and it le apporent that che

Infornation furnished by the source which is contained in the

Lase paragraph of page one and the first ais pazagraphe or page

CHO

in rolet does not pertain to the subject.

it appears that

the

source raported on one IRVING MICAMNIk the used che

facilities of thie roon shortly after the subject.

activities

doscribed in the above paragraphe all pertain to

On 7/30/62, PCI TOM LANNIGAN advieed that IRVING

RICANt, tho is presently in Room 1400, 16 in the music

business

and comes from Detrost, Michigan.

LANNIGAN kneroS

no saistionship batween rically and the subject.

It de noted

that the telephone credit card number listed In relat 16

MICANNIK'S

credit card.

3 • Philadolphia (92-441)

61 - 92-

(CAPPY GUMAIZODD

New York (92-731)

(5)

1 - Supervisor #22

Sertalized Az

Iadexad

F41s0 C

92-731-2366

DocId: 32317801 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-731

At 7:05 p.m., an unknown female entered the room and

the name RUTH BROWN was

mentioned. While the television wAs

on, BUFALINO and the unsub talked about record productions and he

nentioned that IRVING was going to California in two weeks.

Je and the unsub also talked about the union and the AGPA (ph).

The female formerly entertained at the Town Hill Club (ph)

and she had a record which was currently on the market. However,

the name was not mentioned.

The female, who appeared to be a Negro indicated she

was working at the Baly Grand Club (ph) in Brooklyn.

During their conversation, the subject received a

phone call at 7:16 p.M. and he said that he was busy and leaving

SOOn.

He told the caller that IRVING manages name groups such as the

Hurricanes, DELL SHANON (ph), etc.

After the caller hung up, BUFALINO identified him as

MARK ALLEN (ph) and he described him as a fag.

The name of BUFALINO's female companion sounded like

"Birdie Green" (NYO indices negative).

After the subject and GREEN apparently engaged in

sexual activities, they left the room at 8:55 pom. and there was

no further activity.

The only activity reported by the source on 5/8/62 was

a call made at 9 p.m. to an unsub female and the room occupant

asked her to come over.

She indicated she could not and the occupant

apparently spent the rest of the time in the room listening to

television. At 1l pam., he left the room and there was no further

activity.

in 7/26/62, PCI TOM LANNIGAN advised SA JOHN B. MEADE

that the subect or his

associates have not stopped at the hotel

recently and he has received no reservation request from the

subject.

LANNIGAN indicated that should he receive any information

to the effect that BUFALINO was in the hotel or planning

to come to the hotel, he would notify the NYo.

- 2-

DocId:32317801 Page 3

---

