# docid-32294082

## Page 1

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).*

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10358

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-1ST NR 45

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SAC, BU

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/16/1962

2

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

RCF, SHF, RES, TRA, EMP, CP ACT, ASSOC, REL, IDENT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

4

Redact

03/26/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocIA: 32294082

Page

25.

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1 - Bland

1 - Anderson

TION CONTA TAED

8/16/62

SEORgE

Airtel

To:

ASs-

Buffalo

New York: (105-7304)

Front

Director, FBI (200-498305)

JACK CORAN

IS = CANADA

401190)

Classied by Stemselece

Declassify on MEDFIFE

RelYairtel 8/9/62 with enclosed Ictterhead nenorandu.

Burean files disclose the following incoration possibly

identical wich bernard A. Frank,

resistered ouner or veliele

bearing New York

State license plate I4S517• (5)

New Yort report of sA Paul he

, Joansen

captioned "Richard

" New Vork file hone10303

Cyril Frate mustalo, sets forth information os

burean file 100401762,

Chat Richard Frank has a brocher maned bernara d. Frant vinose

five indicating

residence was given as 179 Berkeley Street, Rochester

Now York.

This address is also listed as the residence of Frank's parents,

Marts I and RIla

Fras:

M. Frank, and the forner residence of Richard

Richand Frank residod at 110 Christopher street,

New York City, as

at which time he was contacted by

Bureau Agents

under the Cr,

DTOECEd,

Frank fras

uncooperative and

noncomicative when contacted at this tine.

Susan Fronk

wife of Richard Fraak,

to also a security

subiece of the New York Office, New dor:

file 100-42479;

burcan

file 100339235,

Both Richard

and Susan

Frank are maintained on

the Security Isder of the New York 0ffice.

1

- Ottawa (100=801)

ORIGINAT

- 100-401762 (Richard Cyril Frank)

1a clinte

SUBED ME?

100-339235 (Susan

Frank)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit

L0U-4176

MAIL IS

NOT RECORDERNOTE PAGE TWO

167 AUG 20 1962

di...

AUG: 1.21

4918

DocId: 32294082 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote

DATE: 11-14-2017

Airtel to SAC

, Buffalo

Re: - JACK COWAN

100-408305

SECRED

Of possible significance in this matter is the fact that

Richard and Susan Frank traveled to China sometime between 1959 and

ostensibly with the approval

of the CP, USA. Susan Frank

had been requested to work on the "Peking Review"

and would be

reimbursed by the er of china.

The Franks reportedly also travelea

elsewhere in Europe during

this period.

It should be kept in mind

USA and CP of Canada have frequently exchanged

that the Cry courier and have received instructions from abroad

infornation

possibly be involved in courier activities, if not actually involved

in Cr matters, in the Buffalo area. The possibility should

kept in mind

that someone other than Bernard A. Frank, possibly

Richard Frank, may have been in possession of the vehicle bearing

New York License M55ld at the time it was observed in the Cowan's

drivevay, Toronto, Canada, date not indicated. (s)

Buglo show el the appen act ere the vaster,

ariving the above-mentioned vehicle and submit recommendations as

to further investigation in this re ard.

Additional copies of this communication are being

furnished New York for inclusion in their files on Susan and Richard

Frank.

NOTE:

RCMP has advised that vehicle bearing New York license

Subject

reportedly has been active

facilitated

known conmunists to

obtaining passage to spain for members of the International Brigade

and for obtaining passage for foreign born Canadians returning to

Hungary and other

satellite countries.S New York has advised files

of NYO contain no identifiable information regarding.

Bernard A.

Frank,

and Buffalo has been requested to check its indices.

It is felt

the above additional investigation should be conducted.

SECREL

100-408962-

DocId: 32294082 Page 3

---

