# docid-32313130

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10058

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

67-182287-251

Released under the John

*. kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53130 Date:

06-01-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: TURNER

TO: GALE

TITLE:

DATE:

11/26/1963

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ELBERT T. TURNER, LHO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId:32313130 Page 1

---

## Page 2

"ESTIONAL" FORM "NO. - 10

* UNITED STATES GOVER

YENT

• Memoranaum

TO

:

Jat

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach _

Darned

DATE: 11-26-63

Evans

Gale

Rosen

FROM

: E. T.

QURNER E

Sullivan

1

- Gale

Tavel

1

Trotter

- Sullivan

Tele. Room

1 - Branigan

Holmes _

yo supper:

Turner

Gandy

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

INTERNAL SECURITY - RUSSIA

03/24 95

DECLASSIFY ON.26M115

1

3P0)

In accordance with your request,

the following

explanations

are submitted with regard to my participation in the captioned case:

1. Why I did not review the complete file during the period 10-10

to 11-22-63:

COMI

VERDIN IS UNCLASS ITLED

During this period the work on my desk was extremely

heavy. The publicity on the Jad Edward

• Dunlap case broke in

newspapers on 10-10-63

and for the next 3 or 4 weeks a major portion

of my time was involved in handling that case.

In addition,

the Special

Espionage School which began on 10-14-63 required that I lecture or

lead discussions for 13 hours during the 2-week school. This

required considerable preparation.

during the reorganization of the Espionage

Section which occurred just prior to I0-10-63, a black of neg cases

dealing with soviet espionage activities in Mexico and Canada was/ S

assigned to me and an effort was made to become acquainted with'as

many of these as possible as well as handling the normal mail on the

other cases assigned to me (total case load approximately 95), and to

landle the other duties on my desk which includes review and approval

of signature mail in the Officials Unit

of the roovletectIon

REG112 | 67-82 282-8

the teletype from CIA dated

10- T0 63ewas received

the te regal or the dee prelimina merition this hotel a thialing

the teletype for the file.

in this case prepared by

other supervisors

in the"Unit had previously

crossed my desk and I had

• a general idea of the background of the case.

It appeared that additional

information would be forthcoming

from CIA

and other action at that time did not appear warranted.

Correspondence

which came in subsequently concerning

the subject's activities with

the Fair Play for Cuba Committee was of primary interest itô the

Nationalities Intelligence Section although it was reviewed by me. On

receipt of WFO airtel dated 11-19-63 indicating aucontact with the

Soviet Embassy? Washington,

reviewing it in detait and to analyze the case.

anayze the file for he ensee

received but had not yet been reviewed on_11-22-63

10гL82555Yb4

ETT: cgw

(5)

JAN &

REC-9

25 DEC 2% 1963

SOVIET SECTI

3.

HH 53130 DocId: 32313130

Page 2

---

## Page 3

StE

Memo for Mr. Gale

Re:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

105-82555

e the ge the date on winet e which see en received

that a new file had been opened on it and it was later changed

to this file. As indicated above I do not recall if I made a

preliminary review of the file before initialing the teletype.

Again,

it is noted that the publicity on the Dunlap case broke on 10-10-6

and that during the week beginning 10-13-63 I had 11 hours? lecture

before the "Special Espionage School. I do not know if I received

or initialed the CIA teletype prior to recept of the Legal Attache's

cable and the preparation of a reply thereto.

ACTION

For information.

ADDENDUM:

ETT: 1ml

11/27/63

I would like to add that during the reorganization of

the Division in early October, 1963, I volunteered to take

over the work involving Soviet cases in Mexico and Canada, (S_

inasmuch as I already had approximately six double-agent

cases relating to those countries already assigned to me

and there appeared to be a need to correlate all of these

cases and handle them as a group.

SEUNLE

-3-

WW 53130 DocId: 32313130 Page 3

---

