# docid-32404457

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

Released under the John

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10331-10328

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PRO

PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NW 53217 Date:

-.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

1

STATUS ARRB STAFF REQUESTS/ ISSUES - 22 JAN 1996

01/22/1996

SUBJECTS : HISTORY

AUDIO

JFK ASSASSINATION

CLASSIFICATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

04/22/03

COMMENTS: JFK-M-16 : F13: 2000.02.14.07:36:03:590054

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10328

HH 53217

DooId: 32404457

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SECRET ®

- HRG INTERNAL USE ONLY

Status ARRB Staff Requests/Issues - 22 Jan 1996

Mexico City Station History:

waiting DO/LA response to

HRG/DO recommendation that ARRB Staff be given access

[Action: Elliel

JMWAVE History: DO searching (Action: Elliel

Escalante's 201 file: DO approval for limited access (Gunn

only) received per Ellie.

(Gunn will review the file on Thursday, 25 Jan., 11:00 a.m.J

Oswald's Security File: Frank is

researching

Mexico City Station Cable Mexi-7029 (Peter Dale Scott letter

re DFS issue--same information released in version of

Chrono; NARA # 104-10015-10091, acted on by the Board on i3

Aug. 1995):

Will become unilateral

"release in full"; send

copy to NARA and ARRB staff (Gunn). [Kathy has action]

Audio bugs in Cuban Embassy/Consulate: Discuss with DO and

HRG reviewers. [Barry/Ellie Action]

Records on

Working tape of Oswald's phone conversation (s) :

No records have been located in the JFK collection that

supports the existence of such a tape.

Will obtain

additional information on what Goodpasture said in her

interview from ARRB staff. (Barry action]

Issues to Discuss with ARRB/Staff (Gunn)

Substitute language on documents for NARA

Unilateral

determination notice?

will iden aid suffice?

What type of notice to ARRB staff -

Procedures for handling documents under consideration for

appeal when 30 days set for document to be provided to

National Archive expires. [Note: per OGC, send document

prepared according to ARRB determination with cover

memorandum to. National Archives requesting that document not

be released to the public until the appeal process

complete.]

CL BY :

611637

CL REASON: 1.5C

DECL ON:

X1

DRV FROM: Multiple

NW 53217 DooId: 32404457 Page 2

---

