# docid-32304665

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10295

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-3RD NR 578

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/31/1964

'PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

LCN, OC, MAFIA, LEADERSHIP, JHO, ASSOC, MEMBERS,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32304665 Page 1

---

## Page 2

ID-36 (Rev. 1

-56)

FBI

Date:

1/31/64

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

FROM: / SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127)

CAVBOMB

CRIME CONDITIONS YOUNGSTWON AND

MAHONING COUNTY, OHIO

(CVf1le 92-621)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

CLEVELAND DIVISION

(CVf1le 92-477)

LA COSA

_NOSTRA, Aka

- CONSPIRACY

(CVfile 92-748)

Re CV airtel to Bureau, 1/24/64.

7 - Bureau

- 162-9-Sub-11)

- 92-6054)

2 - Cincinnati

1

- Detroit (Info)

4 - Cleveland

$ = 92-178)

ALTED W/57-742-337

192 - 6054

D2D

184 FEB 5 1963

CIRCON COPY

SEP/jel

(14):

Approved

Special

ni red.

Sent

Agent in Charge

!!!

M. Per

Nw /45839 DocId: 32304665 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 157-127

CV-278-C TE, CV-344-0, and

have all furnished info re membership in the "organization"

in the Youngstown area.

All have advised there are two dis-

tinct groups, and for purposes of this communication, are

divided into the

"Calabrese"

and the "Sicilians"

The "Calabrese Organization"

CV-278-0 TE has advised that DOMINICK. MALLAMO, Aka.,

"Big Dom" is the active head of the "Calabrese" group in

Youngstown, and that his # I man, or assistant is his nephew,

JAMES PRATO, Aka "2 Gun Jimmy"

He advised that PAUL ROMEO

of Campbell had been the active head of the group, but due

to his advanced age, and his 111 health, is more or less in

a retired status, however, MALIAMO still clears certain things

with ROMEO before giving the final word on a decision of

Importance.

CV-344-C has advised that the "Calabrése" are

represented by MALLAMO who is a more or less successor to

PAUL ROMEO, and that MALLAMO is close to TONY MILANO In CV.

Second in command; according to OV-344-C 1s MALTAMO's nephew,

JAMES PRATO.

CV-344-C regards TONY MILANO as head of the

CV group, and his first assistant is FRANK DE AUGUSTINI. He

stated that MALLAMO's group in Youngstown 1s under the con-

trol of MILANO in Cleveland.

PCI L

stated MALIAMO is the top "orgañization"

man in Youngstown at present, and that JAMES PRATO is presently

in the # 2 spot and in all probability will be MALLAMO's

successor.

He advised that in aböut 1930, MALIAMO shot and

killed a man in Youngstown, an Irishman who was dating one

Of MALIAMO's girl friends.

MALLAMO allegedly paid off the

prosecutor in the amount of $2,000 and was required to leave

the country for 6 or 7 years.

PCI stated he is certain there

no record of this

murder in the files of the Youngstown

PD. PCI also advised MALIAMO had a brother, NICK MALIAMO,

who allegedly head of the Youngstown "organization"

later killed by members of the "organization"

POT aist was

also

stated that CICCIO (FRANK) MILANO controlled the "Calabrese"

group in CV prior to moving to Mexico, and now his brother,

TONY MILANO controls the group.

-. 2 -

OTHER 4

NW 45839 DocId: 32304665 Page

---

## Page 4

CV 157-127

Calabrese organizationIn the town to mee

Individuals are members of the

under the control of the "Calabrese organization in are

according to previous mentioned informants:

DOMINICK MALIAMO, Aka "Big Dom"

JAMES ARAO, Aka "To Gun Stm'" (nephew of

PAUL ROMEO (retired)

MIKE ROMEO (brother of PAUL ROMEO)

MIKE ROMEO (SOn Of PAUL ROMEO).

PAUI, ROMEO, JR., (son of PAUL ROMEO)

DOMINICK PRATO (brother of JAMES PRATO, and

nephew of MALLAMO)

ANTHONY AULISIO

LOUIS TIBERIO

JOHN "POPEYE" STEVENS, Aka John Di Schiavo

DOMINIC STEVENS (brother of JOHN STEVENS)

FRANK "CHEECH" MARTEL

FRANK (INU), who operates the Bar B Bar,

Ine.,

718 Market Street, Steubenville, Ohio

TOMMY BRUNO, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio

The 'Sicilian Organization"

CV-278-C TE has

stated that ANTHONY DELSANTER of Warren,

Ohio, is

a member of the "Sicilian" group, and is tied in.

=3

-

NW 45839 DocId: 32304665 Page 4

---

## Page 5

CV 157-127

directly to JAMES LICAVOLI, Aka., Jack White, of ev.

He

stated that when JOSEPH DI CARLO, Aka.,

""The Wolf", was In

power in Youngstown in the 1940's, he was the top man of this

group, and when DI CARLO left Youngstown, JOSEPH ROMANO was

no doubt one of the leaders, but he too has left Youngstown.

CV-344-C advised that DELSANTER became "boss" when

He advised

MIKE FARAH, a Syrian, was murdered at Warren"organization"

Ohio, on 6/10/61.

that LICAVOLI is the head of the

in CV, and in command in order are "WHITEY" BESASE Of Toledo,

Ohio, and JAMES and ANTHONY LA FATCH Of Akron.

advised that at one time, DI CARLO was

at the present

He stated DI CARLO is

Canal taken care of financially by joE MASI of the DE "purple

supposedly has loaned DI CARLO over $200,000.

also advised re Youngstown member WILLIAM LANTINI, Aka.,

"Billy Sunday", that he is a close friend of NICK DITTA, of

the DE "Purple Gang"

,and that DITTA is a close friend of

JIMMY HOFFA, and it was through DITTA that the hoodlum

element penetrated into the labor unions. He further advised

that at one time DITTA was shaking down a man by the name

of BENNETT, an Italian, who was a high official in the Ford

Motor Co., DE. He stated DITTA and a number of other DE

hoodlums were actually on the Ford payroll, and that part of

the shake down was

the result of threats to kidnap HENRY

FORD's children and grandchildren.

He stated that in his

opinion, DITTA is now taking care of LANTINI for some waknown

reason.

"Sicilian organization

The following individuals are members of the

in the Youngstown

area. and are under

the control of the

"Sicilian organization" in CV under the

jurisdiction of JAMES LICAVOLI, Aka Jack White, according to

the previous mentioned informants:

ANTHONY DELSANTER, Aka "Tony the Dope"

JOHN LICAVOLI (brother of JAMES LICAVOLI)

4

-

OTHER 4

NW 45839 DocId: 32304665 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CV 157-127

The NAPLES brothers

The CARABBIA brothers

The DE NIRO brothers

It is further not known at this time what JOSEPH DI CARLO's actual

affiliation might be, and DOMINICK MOIO's (deceased) affiliation

might have been.

LEADS

CINCINNATI

At Steubenville, Ohio

Will identify FRANK (LNU), operator of the Bar B Bar,

Inc., 718 Market St:, and advise öf his background and activities

any possible Youngstown connections other than those named

by CV-278-0 TE.

For the info of the CI Office, this case is being

handled as a Bureau Special, and expeditious handling of this

lead is requested.

NW 45839

DocId: 32304665 Page 6

---

