# docid-32323055

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90010-10059

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-9734-696

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

FBI

HOSTY

DL

Released under the Johr

desassination Recorde

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:N 54463 Date:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/05/1960

AMERICAN G.I. FORUM

CP, USA - VETERANS MATTERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54463

30

DocId: 32323055

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC, DALLAS (100-671-9)

8/5/60

SA JAMES P. HOSTY, JR.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CP, USA - VETERAN MATTERS

IS - C

PEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO

DATE 2-15-42BY SUeS SUD KSR

(JFK)

On 7/21/60 SA JAMES

PO HOSTY, JR., received a handwritten

report from DL-6-S, dated 7/22/60.

This report has been serialized

as 134-1A-531.

Informant determined that on 7/22/60 BILL LOWERH phoned

JOE LANDIN and wanted to know if he could come over for their

regular CP meeting.

JOE LANDIN told hin to make it someother

time because they were expecting company.

BILL LOWERY told JOE LANDIN a little about the forum

meeting which took place on 7/21/60. The committee set up to

help in the memorial of VINCENT TREVINOhad not done anything and

he bad it dissolved and appointed a three-man committee to contact

other organizatins and try to form the Trevino Committee. LOWERY

seemed thoroughly disgusted and threatened to quit the forum and

do something on his own about the TREVINO case.

He used violent

language in criticizing the "don't care" attitude of the forum.

the tisvino case, Lolsky said, was treated very lightly.

He

stated he got mad at the meeting and made most o1 the menbers mad

at him because he insisted they do something about the case.

It seemed that only three or four persons wanted to do something

about it.

Mrs. ROBERT I. JONES was one of them, and JOHN LANDIN,

a non-member was another.

Informant determined

that JOHN LANDIN

was present because he wants the forum to sponsor a dance for him.

Informant determined that BILl LOWERY severely criticized

JOE MOLINA who is opposed to doing anything for TREVINO.

In the

past, however, LOWERY and MOLINA have worked hand in band and

this

was their first disagreement.

Informant could furnish no additional information.

1 = 100-671-9

1 - 134-1A-531A (rpts DL-6-5)

- 100-9734 (G.I, Forum)

- 100-9847 (J. MOLINA)

1 - 100-7929 (B. LOWEBY)

1 - 100-8001 (J. LANDIN)

JPH: jeg

(6)

100-9734-

SEARCHED

. INDEXED

SERIALIZED

FILED

AUG 5 1960

FBI - DALLAS

696

NW 54463 DooId: 32323055 Page 2

---

