# docid-32297139

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/4/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10218-10415

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4474-194, 195

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 03/03/1965

• PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS:

MIRR, CUBAN EXILE GROUP, OBA, PILOT, CREW,

TRAINING, US, AIR STRIKE, INFILTRATION, CUBA,

ASSASSINATION PLOT, CASTRO, NCK

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC 2 A/T, S/S

vo.l

MANH 45881

7

DocId: 32297139

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PD 36 (Per: 1029-63)

SECRED

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI

Date:

March 23, 1965

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

REGISTERED

(Priority)

ION CONTAINED

LASSIFIED

SHOWN

THEIR 12

• C - Wick

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

(97-4474)

2/26195 ПОбуЛАС ЕАТ

FROM: SAC, MIAMI

(105-2855) (Р)

Classified by

3 JP/GCL

-MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIecessify on: OADRA/16/85

DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

(MIRR)

-RELEASE OF GIA MFORMATION EG37

(JFK

IS - CUBA;

IN THIS DOCUMENT. MKH 2-6-98

NM

plattee: ( 105-78969

ReBuairtel 3/18/65 to Miami

with enclosure

(Reneg)

751/9

consisting of [CIA report dated 3/2/65.](5-1)(*\)

On 3/22/65,

Key Source - Cuban,

was

again interviewed concerning the 1/17/65 alleged MIRR

raid.

reiterated that he was not involved as pilot

OTHER 4

or in any other capacity, and possessed no information concerp-

ing this alleged raid.

pointed out, however, that

some of his Cuban friends,

knowing of his past involvement

with the MIRR in such raids, had asked him if he had not bee

the pilot on this raid.

Even though

replied to thei

in the negative, he got the impression that perhaps some

these friends did not belleve him. (OC(U)

denied telling anyone

that he himself

had said this CAsTRo spoke the truth when CASTRO sald Fat sou

(4)

bomb had fallen on the house of some peasants

REG 13197-4424-145

RECORDED

-

Bureau (RM)

Miami

(1 - 105-2855)

(1 - 134-975-Sub A)

GED/ neb

|(5)

MAR 224 1965

DECLASSIFIED IF 5668 SURIKSR

2-19-98 (JFK)

NAIAKY SEC.

APR

Special Agent in Charge

1965

CONFAENTIAL

Sent.

F

PRET

_M

SEE REVERSE TA

SIDE FOR

CLASSIFICATION

ACTION

Per

NW 45881

DocId: 32297139 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 105-2855

CONFIDENTIAL

SECK

6OA(U)

possessed no information concerning the

. OTHER 4

(BR/usP81,2) 15

CASSIPI

ANPUPERADEE

TO SECRET

4803nd

824,326 3/26/92

training in

In this connection, it is to be notec

never received training in the U. S.

An any plan of the l to Animate cAsti Ot 1s

possessed no information concern-

to, be noted, however,

that MARCELINO GARCIA JIMENEZ

himself fits the qualifications described in the CIA

и)

For the information of the Bureau, or 3/8/657

a cuban exile,

located on 36th Avenue/between Ilth and 9th Streets, N. HUde/

in Miami.

He drives an old Mercedes Benz cat painted

black.

He is the son of Major, General EULOGIO CANTILLO,

former Chief

the Cuban Army_in Oriente Province, who

has

been imprisoned for

the past/six yearg in Cuba.

learned from CANTILLO that about a week previously,

CANTILLO contacted ORLANDO BOSCH, head of the MIRR,

and

offered to pilot a plane for BOSCH on an air raid against li

Cuba.

BOSCH told CANTILLO that on or shortly after

3/21/65, he would give CANTILLO $300.00 for a pilot

training license and that he would utilize the services

of CANTILLO when he was sufficiently qualified to pilot

a plane.

said that ten or eleven years ago,

CANTILLO had perhaps 20 hours flying time in a Piper

plane,

and about fight months ago, he had one hour flying

time with

On 3/7/65, CANTILLO PieWe WIth JESUSsANCHEZ

FlA

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

2.

CONFXENTIAL

SECRET

NW 45881

DocId: 32297139

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FiF

COM

SATVIS

iSB

TOSAL

MM 105-2855

out of American Aviation Company. Tamiami Airport,

CANTILLO has requested

to give him

flying lessons, and

said he told CANTILLO he

would be willing to give him lessons provided he could

make appropriate arrangements at some local airport

for obtaining a plane for this purpose.

Isaid that CANTINO has been working

with the Movimiento Recuperaciou

under the leadership of MANUELe

Revolucionaria

a (MRR)

Miami files reflect that AMADO CANTILLO HUGUET

was born 8/8/38 in Cuba, and INS memo dated 9/20/63

reflected that his name

had been placed on a list of

persons who had been served with "Notice of Prevention

of Departure." This memo reflected that CANTILLO had

70 hours flying time, but no pilot's license. CANTILLO

is a former purser on Cubana Airlines, and requested

political asylum on 10/10/60.

On 3/22/65,

advised he had not yet

heard from CANTILLO as to whether or not BOSCH provided

him with the $300.00.

of money, possibly several thousands, were collected by

BOSCH during the rally.

The above information pertaining to CANTILLO

will not be reported in a form suitable for dissemination

until more specific information is obtained concerning

further developments.

In the event BOSCH does decide to utilize the

services of CANTILLO,

feels that he is in an

excellent position to provide information concerning

BOSCH's plans through CANTILLO.

CONFI

NTIAI

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32297139

Page 4

OTHER

4

OTHER 4

---

## Page 5

4-22 (Rev. 1-22-60)

" Federal Bureau of Inve tigation

Records Bran

SECRED

,.19

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

Service Unit - Room 6524

Forward to File Review

Attention

Return to

asca

Supervisor

Room

Type of References Requested:

Regular Request (Analytical Search)

All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

Subversive References Only

Nonsubversive References Only

ALL INTORMAT TENSAS PREE M

Type of Search Requesteds UNOLASSTPIED EXCEPT

Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

Buildup

I Variations

subject Amado

CANtiLLo Huquet

Birthdate & Place 8/8/38 cub.

Address

Localities

Mate 3-25

Searcher HerB

Initials

FILE NUMBER

ND

ND

T10169-12926)

105983195-1584

• NOI

109-584-2289 maste

Cantillo, amado

(05-16424-21003053

N$ 8161

ND

105-83195-1286

109-480-1291

antillo, amado H.

ND

+05-16424-210-7886)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS

JLASSIFIED

-DATE 9H4

BY SPARTA/ACL

hassled in bock Kin

Declassily bir

GANG (JFK

SECRET

N₩ 45881

DocId: 32297139 Page 5

---

## Page 6

SECRET

CONFRENTIAL

1 - Nasca

3/18/65

Airtel

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE 0F CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 7-7-98

220% 5 MALGAT

Classified by SPbAJA/GCL

Declassify on: OAD 216/85

To:

SAC, Miami (105-2855)

From:

Director, FBI (97-1474) - 194

(7K)

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

IS - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Attached is copy of CIA Information Report dated

SANCLASSIFIED

HERE SHOWN

Alleged Plan to Assassinate Fidel Castro Ruz." (K)(X))

*Since

is key source of your office in Cuban

matters suairtel your comments and observations concerning the

#alleged claim of Alpizar that he piloted plane which made 1/17/65

HEREIMI

air strike over Cuba in behalf of captined anti-Castro organization. u)

Your 1/20/65 teletype in this matter indicates that Alpizar had no

HIO

information concerning this raid. If reinterview with Alpizar is

warranted, he should be thoroughly reinterviewed. 6>6

In addition your comments and observations concerning

8 1965

the [claims of Erlinda Puig Nunez, wife of chief of MIRR Directorate

that thate were five individuale in the aircraft during this raid Ball

and that the pilot was Cuban exile who had received training in

U.S. Army]should be submitted.

(U)

In addition, any information concerning the lälleged

plans of

captined anti-Castro group to assassinate Castro] should SIX

be promptly submitted to the Bureau.

Enclosure

OTHER 4

1 - 105-78969

LAST I DELLASSIFIEO (BAROLETS)

VEN: vIs

(5)

ALL OTHER BRACKETED INFO CLASSIFIEO

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

DeLoach

SEE

NOTE ON PAGE 2

Casper

Callahan

Contad.

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele: Room

Holmes

O MAR 2 6 1960v

Gandy

MAIL ROOM VA TELETYPE UNIT

AUD UPGRADED TO SECRET

PER THEIRAI2 22/91 LTR.

9803 cdd/ gal $21,326

3/22/92

707/PA: 21, 306

APPEAL #

CIVIL ACT.

E. 0. #122.

DATE 9/16/15

CUNFIXENTIAL (BX) IS CIA,

SECRET

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668

04. 7=31-98 (JFK)

THITIKISGEL

SLA/ISR

OTHER 4

OPY FILED IN

г89

69

NW 45881

DocId:32297139 Page 6

---

## Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

Airtel to Miami

ЗАТИСНИОР

Re:

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

97-4474

NOTE:

Captioned anti-Castro organization has claimed it carried

out air attack on Cuba 1/17/65. Information developed to date

indicates raid did not

take place. CIA on 3/3/65 furnished informa-

tion indicating that

Iclaims he piloted the plane which

carried out this air strike l

Jis key source of Miami Officel JOTHER 4

who has been previously contacted concerning this raid and who has

denied any knowledge concerning it. In addition, we should obtain

Miami's conments concerning the [claim of the wife of the MIRR

leader' that there were five individuals in the plane which carrigal

out the raid, one of which was trained by U.S. Armya This MIRR

leader in addition reportedly indicated that captioned organization

was preparing a plan to assassinate Castro(and that the individuals

responsible for carrying out this plan is a Cuban suffering from

heart disease whose life expectancy has therefore been shortened.| >

GAINE CUASGIFEO AND

(и)

UPGRADED TO SECRET PER

THEIR 12/1/A, LTR.

9803 mad /50

4211,326

3/22/92.

-X=

CONFXSENTIAL

918-100112

NH 45881

DocId: 32297139 Page 7

---

