# docid-32287171

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10196-10447

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

143-699-1, 2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, PH

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

01/07/1963

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

RAB, ASSOC, MEETING, AIRPORT, WHEREABOUTS, SLOT

MACHINES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/05/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE

v01

DocId: 32287171

Page 1.

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PH 143-

met NUKLEY. STEVENS long-time Scranton gambler.

PD man

assigned airport observed meet; however, subsequently lost

STEVENS and NUKLEY en route Scranton. u

PH 559-C on afternoon 1/4/63 advised he observed

BUFALINO, STEVENS, VITO SANTORO and unidentified male at

Seville Bar, Scranton, shortly after'meet at airport.

• Bureau Agents.

BUFALINO only individual observed leaving

Seville Bar and returned to Iri-City lextile, old Forge,

and then to residence at Kingston, Pa.

4

Efforts on evening 1/4/63 to locate NAKHLEH

negative. u

New York telephonically advised ISSA NAKHLEH is

eat mender us palestine leo delegation, a nan deraclai

delegation.

Captain JAMES MC DONALD, today advised that the

PD's informant furnished the following:

NAKHLEH met with STEVENS, the informant, and one

other unidentified person at Wilkes-Barre (placeeunknown)

for dinner 1/4/63 and discussed forming syndicate for

purpose of selling slot machines to West Germany and Spain.

STEVENS and HAKHLEH have met with finance minister, Germany,

and plan to visit Germany in re to proposed transactions.

Syndicate, according to MC DONALD, to include all of

subjects.

Allegheny Airlines, Scranton, advised NAKHLEF

left Wilkes-Barre - Scranton Airport 3:15 p.m., 1/5/63,

for return New York City.

4

New York requested toddevelop available background

information re NNUKLEY, the delegation he represents

number contacts with representatives German and Spanist

Governments.

Cotein photo al possible. Anu scated it

- 2 -

DocId: 32287171 Page 2

---

