# docid-32165519

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DA220111-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

JrA rul MeSulls

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10158-10044

RECORDS SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-3491

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TO : LEG, MX

TITLE

: [No Titlel

DATE

:04/30/1964

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : WC, INSTR, LHO, POST-RP,

SIGHTING, MX

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/18/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Doc htp:/49985399/cgippanstarynder/8542/jfksnew.bx

1/1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the vai

DATE: 11-14-2817

ag

1 - Mr. Stokes

CONN

NTIAL.

4-30-64

CODE

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

(S7)

TO LEGAL ATTACHE MEXICO (105-3702)

FROM DIRECTOR

(105-82555)

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS - I - CUBA. REUR LETTERHEAD APRIL

TWANTY TIRES LAST DEALING EY BART WITH REVELATIONS OF MEX [4]

EIGHTEEN AND MEX NINETEEN

RE CHARLES SMALL WHICH WAS REHRITTEN

ORKAY 1ON CONTAINED

AGSIDIED

CE SHOWN

AT BUREAU TO FURTHER PROTECT SOURCES AND COPY OF WHICH HAS BEEN

FURNISHED TO YOU.

DESPITE THE ORJECTIONS VOICED IN YOUR APRIL NINE AIRTEL

TO INTERVIEN OF SMALL BY MEXICAN OR AMERICAN OFFICIALS, IT IS

POSSIBLE THAT CONMISSION MAY DESIRE SMALL BE INTERVIEWED.

CAREFULLY CONSIDER THIS AND SUBMIT YOUR OPINION AS TO BEST

2803160

PAÓRS: JFK

(008/18/43)

MANNER, IN WHICH SUCH INTERVIEW COULD BE HANDLED CONSISTINT WITH

PROTECTING YOUR SOURCES. IN VIEW OF CONMENTS OF YOUR SOURCES

MARSCOSORD COPY FILED

JFK

Sor

FORTH IN RE LETTERHEAD, IT IS DESIRED THAT YOU REVIEW YOUR

JETLE OY SIVE IN ME RECORDS HELLA LAST SEE 2491

105-825

TO DETERMINE SMALL'S ALIEN STATUS' IN MEXICO AND TO DEVELOP

53

SPECIFIC INFORMATION AS TO DATE ME DEPARTED NEW YORK IN.

MAY I 1964

SEPTEMBER, SIXTY THREE, AND DATE ME RETURNED TO MEXICO CITY.

IN ADDITION, THROUGH MEX EICHTEEN, NEX NINETEE

1 T'olson

Belmont.

Mohr

Casper

Callahan -

conrad

le Loach -

AVAILABLE SO

AVUK

VIA

TO DEVELOP FURTHER SPECIFICS RE

"CAB'LEGRAM

JCS: hut

9:00pM

(4)

eign Liaison Unit

MAIL ROOM

DocId: 32165519

Page 2

TELETYPE UNIT

(Route thru for review) NOTE PAGE 2

CONFIDENTIAL

del

Claculled by

Ao. Exempt fro

2040

Date obsedassrication Indefimir

---

## Page 3

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recors Collection At

-DATE• 11-14-2017

799-155

1107 194E1.

CABLEGRAM TO MEXICO

RE:

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

105-82555

THE NATURE OF THE ASSISTANCE SMALL GIVES TO THE AMERICAN

COMMUNISTS WHO, WHEN VISITING MEXICO, APPEAR AT HIS PLACE OF

BUSINESS, IN CONNECTION WITH YOUR SURVEY OF KEY INFORMANTS

CONCERNING OSNALD REFERRED TO IN YOUR CABLE NUMBER FIVE EIGHT ONE

SET FORTH IN LETTERHEAD RE SMALL THE NUMBER OF SOURCES WHO COULD

FUNNISH NO INFORMATION TO INDICATE THAT OSWALD EVER APPEARED AT

SMALL'S STORE. HANDLE IMMEDIATELY.

NR.

69

ENG..

NOTE:

CK. ----

APPROVED BY A

Mexico City active

Wex 18 and Nex laare part of a calor 4 Individual in

in communist circles

'in affairs of FPCC.

one of these individuals is Charles Small who

in Decenber and

January, told the informants that he was worried about possible

narassment by Mexicon police as he considered it possible Oswald

nay have visited his jewelry store when in Mexico..

• No info has

been developed to establish that such was the case and Small has

not indicated to sources that he, in fact,

knew or met Oswald.

Small claimed to sources that he was out of Mexico during Oswald's

trip to Mexico City; however,

the sources report that Small returned

to Mexico,

exact date not states, Ericr io the

reportedly left Mexico a are of commission seese interest

in identifying all places visited by Oswalo in Mexico City,

we

regard it as likely they will ask that Small be interviewed.

Legat's 4-9 airtel recommended against this as interviewing

him

about oswald and a possible visit to Small's store would point to

the informants as sources Furthermore, Small has heart condition

Believed advisable to aleft Legat to possibility of request for

interview of Small and to have him thinking as to bést means to

show Small was in Us during J-day period Uswald was in Mexico

may forestall request for interviev of Small. *Informants believe

that Small's fear of Mexican police harassment was part of the

generas concern de members of the American communist

Mexico after reading that Oswald had been in Mexico.

- 2 - CONNUENTIAL

DocId: 32165519 Page 3

---

