# docid-32330870

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90093-10076

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-8100-39

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

NO

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 08/29/1969

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

NOFIO PECORA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32330870

Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleation Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mute).

FDAH, Rev112122017

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

đi m

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

NOFTO PECORA, aka

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

DATE

8/29/69

REPORT MADE BY

SA ROBERT R. BAZIN

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

6/11/69 - 8/21/69

TYPED. DY

kam

AR

REFERENCES:

New Orleans report of SA JAMES W. HARDISON,

6/19/69.

San Antonio letter to Houston dated 7/7/69.

Jacksonville letter to New Orleans,

8/21/69.

• P-

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

CONTACTING AGENT

CONVIC.

AUTO.

FUG.

NO T-1 is NO 1075-C

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

SAVINGS

I. M. SHEARER, JR.

KO NONE

ACQUIT-

CASE HAS BEEN:

RECOVERIES

TALS

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR XVES INO

PENDING PROSECUTION

OVER SIX MONTHS

DYES

EXio

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

BABUREAU (92-8100)

I-USA, NEW ORLEANS

1-DEPARTMENTAL ATTORNEY

2- JACKSONVILLE (92-1062)

2-HOUSTON

2-NEW ORLEANS (92-603)

SPECiAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-8100139

NEW ORLEANS

- REC-49

EX. - 113

• SEP 10 1969•

Agency

Request Recd.

Date fwd

How Fwd.

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

OC. AAG, Criminal Divimon

anied Crime and Racketeering

Notations

STAN

SECT.,

F129

58 SEP 2 6 1969

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330870

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

NO: 92-603

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

CONTACTING AGENT

NO T-2 is NO 1704-PC

JAMES W. HARDISON

LEADS:

JACKSONVILLE

AT JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA. Will contact ap-

propriate law enforcement officer at Jacksonville in an

attempt to obtain further information on FRANCIS L.

ELLIS.

HOUSTON

AT EL CAMPO, TEXAS. Will identify the owners

and operators of Rice Belt Motor Leasing Company and

determine if any of these individuals are involved in

any top hoodlum matters.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. Will maintain

contact with sources particularly regarding subject's

trip to Italy.

Will obtain recent photograph of subject.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The "T" symbols previously reported for

the above listed informants have been changed for

simplicity in reporting.

As previously reported subject is being

contacted under the TECIP program and carried as

symbol number 1283-PC.

B#

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32330870 Page 3

---

