# docid-32288916

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reoords Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

• Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10200-10192

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1153

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 01/31/1967

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

LST, MED, ASSOC, TELCAL, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32288916

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 444 USC

2107/

NotePT (Rev. 1-27-66)

DATE: -11-19-2011

lolson

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

• CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

225 PM 1-31-67 URGENT DGM

т0

DIRECTOR, NEW YORK, TAMPA, AND MIAMI

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON • ENCODED

FROM NEW ORLEANS 311825

XX TELETYPE

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Ros

Sui than

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy

9°

глі?

Anti-racketeering

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JROS ARA, ARO

stair

RE NEW ORLEANS TELETYPE JANUARY 30 LAST.

ON JANUARY 31 INSTANT, NO 1457-C-TE, ADVISED THAT THE

TRAFFICANTES ARRIVED VIA AIR ON FRIDAY, JANUARY 27 LAST, FROM

MIAMI, FLORIDA.

DURING MORNING OF JANUARY 30, LAST, TRAFFICANTE UPSET-BE-

CAUSE HE PASSED SOME BLOOD. CARLOS MARCELLO MADE AN AFTERNOON

FIRST NAME UNINIOU

APPOINTMENT FOR TRAFFICANTE WITH À PROCTOLOGIST NAMED DR. (FNU)

HEBERT.

DURING AÓMO OF JANUARY 30 LAST, CARLOS MARCELLO MADE A LOCAL

TELEPHONE CALL AND, AGCORDING TO

INFORMANT, STATED "THE MAN IS

HERE. HE WANTS TO LOOK AT THE PLANT THIS MORNING. " INFORMANT

STATED THAT. ABOUT 15 MINÚTES, LATER, CARLOS. MARCELLO AND SANTO

92 2180-1153

FEB 8 1967

REISTED IO_

Fits

97FE8 15 1967

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32288916 Page 2

---

