# docid-32149916

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Identification Form

Agency Information

JINUILUI

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10089-10172

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-632-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

DATE: 00/00/0000

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

4

SEE FBI 100-32965-138

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/25/1994

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32149916

Page

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEYAKTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

pooL 8-2881

33

3 - 84

File No.

In Reply, Please Refer to

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

March 3, 1954

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

JEANNE DE MOHRENS CHILDT

APPROTRIANE AGENCIES

AND FIELD OFFICE

ADVISED BY

JUTING

SLIP (S

DATE

APPR! ---

d.".

0a.4-4-89

15.65 SDP/AHR

9803 RDD/KSA

On February 28, Issa, isi, who has furnisnedll-93

reliaole information in the past, stated that a check of

tne Mexican Immigration records maintained by the Mexican

Ministry of the Interior (Governacion), Mexico, D. F.,

disclosed file #4/351.0'50"/29224 concerning GEORGE DE

HORENSCLILDE and kis wife, JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, DOth

United states citizens.

DE MO:RENSCHILDI, a petroleun geologist and engineer,

ind directed a communication from 139-40 Republic National

3ank Building,

Dallas, Texas, on June 6, 1950, to the

cretary of Governacion, asking for permission for he

and uis wife, JEANNE, to enter Mexico for a period of

eleven wonths in order to do research in the fields of

ast, archaeology and geology while traveling through Mexico

iron the United states border to Central emerica and Fanal U,

According to this file, the MonRenSchILdTs planned

to do most of their work in the State of Chiapas, Mexico.

MOHHENSCHILDT indicated that his work would be published

in "Life Magazine" and the 'National Geographic Magazine"

and indicated that he was a friend of ANTONIO GARCIA ROJAS,

Director of Mexican Petroleum Exploration.

RE:

to EUSEBIO DAVALOS HURTADO, Director of the

• this matter

Mexican Institute

6

# 11 05-632137

4.27-91

NTIAL

3

GROUp

Excluded

Dom Automatic

Downgrading

and

Declassificatio

DocId: 32149916 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hofe).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONFIDE

TIA L

of Anthropology and History, who informed cobernacion that

MOHRENSCHILDT had not been given permission/

Institute ta do archaeological researca in vatica stAndal

quently, the secretary of Gobernacion informed MOHRENSCHILDT

would have to first obtain permission from the

Mexican Institute of Anthropology and History of the

Ministry of Public Education, Mexico, D. I., prior to

soliciting the permission of Gobernacion to

country for the afore-mentioned purposes.

futer the

The files of Gobernacion contained

concerning the MORENSCHILDIs since August 27, 1960, no

indication that the MOHRENSCHILDIs had corresponded with

Gobernacion since that time, and no indication as to whether

not they subsequently entered Mexicos U)

On February 29, 196€, Colonel CARLOS ESPINOSA

FELIX, Chiel, Identification Section, Metropolitan Police,

Mexico, D. I., stated that the records of that office

contained

no identifiable information concerning the subjects.

Colonel ESPINOSA FELIX advised that the recorde

of that office disclosed no derogatory information concerning

LILIA PARDO. VIUDA DE LARIN but indicated that she was finger-

printed for the issuance of driver's licenses on July 9,

1935, and March 26, 1942. In 1942, she gave an address

e, Fraccionamienta Acaciaz, Calona Mice certificated

He further stated that she had obtained

of Good Conduct from that office for passport purposes on

the following dates, at which time she gave the following

addrésses:

April 18, 1951 -- Calle Yosemite No. 59, Colonia

Napoles, Mexico, D. F.; May 4, 1960 -- Calle Miami No. 20,

Colonia

Napoles,

Mexico, D. F.; August 19,

1960, Apartment

No. 5, Fabasco No. 157, Mexico, D. I. Y

• (4)

un March 3, 1964, SERGIO GARRIDO, Chief, Identi-

Ication vection, federal Judicial Police

of Mexico, Mexico,

D. F., and Miss

ARMINDA REYES,

Identification Section,

Judicial Police of the Federal District and Territories,

Mexico, D. I., advised that the records of their respective

offices contained no identifiable information concerning the

subjects or LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN.

CONFL

ENTIAL

CONFIOXITIAL

+1 105-632-136

DocId: 32149916 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARIMENI OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

9803 RDD/ASRein 3, 1834

8.1-26-43

JFK SpIcIA/

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

!

cons

reliaole information in the past, stated that a check of

the

Mexican Inmigration records maintained by the Mexican

Ministry of the Interior (Governacion), Mexico, D. F.,

cisclosed file #4/351.0'50"/25224 concerning GEORGE DE

MOHRENSCHILDT and his

wife, JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, both

United states citizens.

MORENSCHILDI, a petroleum geologist and engineer,

ind cirected a communication from 139-40 Republic National

3ank Building, Dallas, Texas, on June 6, 1930, to the

jecretary of Governacion, asising for permission for he

anc: is wife, JEANNE, to enter Mexico for a period of

eleven wonths in order to do research in the fields of

art, archaeology and geology while traveling through Mexico

¡rom the United states border to Central America and Paname.

According to this file, the MORENsCHILDIs Manned

to do most of their work in the State of Chiapas, Mexico.

MOFRENSCHILDT indicated that his work would be published

in "Life Magazine" and the "National Geographic Magazine"

and indicated that he was a friend of ANTONIO GARCIA ROJAS,

Director of Mexican Petroleum Exploration. X U

The secretary of Gobernacion referred

this matter

tO EUSESIO DAVALOS HURTADO, Director of the

4-27-81

Au Mexican Institute

105-632-136

3-31

CONFI

VENTIAL

Excluded from Automatic

Downgrading and declassification

X

DocId: 32149916 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John. F. Kennedy Assassination Records. Collection Act of 1992. (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:, 11-1473917

ji.

CONFIDENTIAL

of Anthropology and History, who informed Gobernacion that

MOHRENSCHILDT had not been given permission by that

Institute to do archaeological research in Mexico. subse-

quently, the secretary of Gobernacion informed MOHRENSCHILDT

that he

would have to first obtain permission from the

Mexican Institute of Anthropology and History of the

Ministry of Public Education, Mexico, D. F., prior to

soliciting the permission of Gobernacion to enter the

country for the afore-mentioned purposes.

The files of Gobernacion contained

no information

concerning the MORENSCHILDTS since August 27, 1960, no

indication that the MOHRENSCHILDTs had corresponded

with

Gobernacion since that time, and no indication as to whether

or not they subsequently entered

1 Mexico.

3,

On February 29, 1964, Colonel CARLOS

ESPINOSA

FELIX, Chief, Identification Section, Metropolitan Police,

Mexico, D. F., stated that the records of that office

contained no identifiable information concerning the subjects.

Colonel ESPINOSA FELIX advised that the records

of that office disclosed no derogatory information concerning

LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN but indicated that she was finger-

printed for the issuance of driver's licenses on July 9,

1935, and March 26, 1942. In 1942, she gave an address

Lote

D. F.

9, Fraccionamiento Acacias, Colonia Mixcoac, Mexico,

He further stated that she had obtained Certificates

of Good Conduct from that office for passport purposes on

the following dates, at which time she gave the following

addresses:

April 18, 1951 -- Calle Yosemite No. 59, Colonia

Napoles,

Colonia

Mexico, D. F.; May 4, 1960 -- Calle Miami No. 20,

Napoles, Mexico, D. F.; August 19,

1960, Apartment

No. 6, Tabasco No. 157, Mexico, D. EMU)

On March 3, 1964,

SERGIO GARRIDO,

Chief, Identi-

IIcation section, federal dudicial Police of Mexico, Mexico,

D. F., and Miss ARMINDA REYES,

Identification Section,

Judicial Police of the Federal District and Territories,

Mexico, D. F., advised that the records of their respective

offices contained no identifiable information concerning the

subjects or LILIA PARDO VIUDA DE LARIN.

x(4)

TIAL

CONFIDE

- 2

PL 1OJ 632-1361

DocId: 32149916 Page 5

---

