# docid-32295203

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/6/2015

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10214-10479

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

26-425217-37

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection

Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:WH 45961 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

HADDOCK, MORRIS W.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/23/1973

PAGES:

27

SUBJECTS :

FS, INTV, JIMENEZ, JOSE SIORDIA, BUCHANAN, JERRY,

ASSOC, CONSPR, ARREST, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: : 06/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45961

DocId: 32295203

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 26-37623

Contential

concerning JAMES STILLMAN'S knowledge of FRANK LESLIE MERRITT'S

involvement in this car ring and specifically regarding his use of

a stolen credit card in the name of RICHARD NORIAM Or NORIAN

taken October 5, 1970 in a burglary at Jerry's Sunset Inn,

Islamorada, Florida and used to rent car number 6.

AT HALLANDALE, FLORIDA

Interview Sergeant FREY, Hallandale Police Department

concerning his possible knowledge of the reported recovery of

bearing a 1970 to 1971 E plate and a Ford Maverick reportedly

recovered in back of Eddie Hill's Diner in December, 1970, which

cars may have been placed there by MERRITT and RALPH H.

BASSFORD.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Follow and report prosecutive action.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The confidential source abroad mentioned in the

-details of this report is the legat, Mexico. The source

referred to is EP 566-C. A copy of this report has been furnished

to the Bureau for the legat, Mexico in view of their interest

in this matter and in the event further leads are set out for

that legat.

In July, 1973, Assistant United States Attorney

WILLIAM NORTHCUTT, secured from the United States Justice

Department and the United States District Court, Southern

District of Florida, immunity from prosecution for RADCLIFFE

WILLS, former MM 2073-C.

JEK Law 10(a)2

There is no further reason to conceal his

identity and his identity has been set forth in the details of

this report where appropriate.

Two copies of the indictment, according to NORTHCUTT,

will be tendered

to the Grand Jury in this matter.

One copy

names FIORINI, a Watergate subject, and the other omits his

name.

The decision to indict FIORINI accordingly will be entirely

that of the Grand Jury. This procedure, according to

CaBridential

COVER PAGE

425217-37

1156-100100

NW 45961 DooId: 32295203 Page 2

---

## Page 3

1

FD-204 (Rev, 3-3-59)

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUÚTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Cone dontlal

1 - United States Attorney,

Miami, Florida (72-4250)

(Attention: Assistant U.S. Attorney WILLIAM R. NORTHCUTT)

MORRIS W. HADDOCK

8/23/73

Office: Miami, Florida

Field Office File #:

26-37623

JERRY BUCHANAN;

Title:

ROBERT PAUL CURTIS;

FRÄNK ANTHONY FIORINI;

JOHN LETTIERI;

FRANK LESLIE MERRITT;

CHARLES SPINELLA, JR

Bureau File #:

CLASSIFIED AND

EXTENDER PY SPSTEN RHIC 2/20/24

REASON FI

1t3..-

FCIM, Il, 1"

DATE OFf.

DECLASSIENATIONG

character:

Character:

INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLE -

CONSPIRACY - RING CASE

Synopsis:

Interview of JOSE SIORDIA JIMENEZ, Agent of the Mexican Federalf la

Police, who apprehended "JAY BLAND" in car number 4 in

Guadalajara in 1970 reported. RADCLIFFE WILLS, a co-conspirator Mexico

Of JERRY BUCHANAN was granted immunity.

JFK

Law 10(a)

JOHN TARRING SHADWELL located and admitted

fraudulently reporting car number 15 stolen and turning the

same over to WILLS and BUCHANAN for disposal in Mexico.

Federal

Grand Jury continuing investigation in this matter.

Assistant

U,S. Attorney reports indictments are anticipated 8/20/73.

ALL

SUBJECTS CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS AND ARE ALLEGED TO HAVE

MURDERED ONE MEMBER OF THIS RING.

APPROPOTATE AGENCIES

-p-

AND FTE

WIFICES

DECIASGITIEO BY S6lX SLDIna

ADIT DB

DETAILS:

ON

3.31-95

JH

SLTP (5) OF

DATE

All captions hereafter refer to captions

previously

utilized in Miami prosecutive summary report dated

January 10,

1973, except where new information is reported hereafter.

Car Number 4 description:

1970 Oldsmobile, yellow, Vista Cruiser station wagon,

simulated wood paneling, Vehicle Identification Number

348650M190077, 1969 to

1970 Florida tag 26E 276.

26-425217-37

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

This vermcat com aise neither resommendatime nur roachuions o' the Pal. It in the property or thr del and is found ta vour gre " the is contents

Contifential

U. S. GOVERNMENT

PRINTING OFFICE: 1970 O - 406-840

45961 DooId: 32295203 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 26-37623

Confidential

On June 7, 1973, information was received from

confidential source

abroad indicating that JOSE SIORDIA

JIMENEZ, a second Federal Judicial Police Agent, Guadalajara,

Mexico,

was a possible witness to the arrest of

JERRY

BUCHANAN, driving what was believed to be car number four?

It was believed he would be available to testify in the

United States concerning the date of arrest, the details of

arrest, the license plate, and the Vehicle Identification

Number

of the Oldsmobile Vista Cruiser found in BUCHANAN'S

possession at the time of arrest. @ (U)

consential

=2-

26-425355-15939

74 45961

DooId: 32295203

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Confidential

JOSE SIORDIA JIMENEZ,

lah Agent of the Federal Judicial

Police, was intervieved at his office

at the Federal Building,

Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.

c(u)

stated that he recalled the arrest of Jay BLANd,

Guadalajara, Jalisco, and would be able to testify to the

following:

1. JAY BLAND was arrested on March 29, 1970, at

2:00 PM,.

at the corner of Francisco de Anza and

•Calle 38 at Guadalajara.

2

He was selling contraband articles, consisting

of electrical devices such as radios, recorders

and power drills.

3.

He was asked "where is your automobile," at

which time he took arresting agents to his

automobile which was parked about two blocks

away.

4 .

This automobile was determined to be a 1970

Oldsmobile bearing Serial No. 348650M190077

and New York State license plates 8991 GX.

This vehicle had entered Mexico at Miguel

Aleman, Tamaulipas, Mexico, at which time

JAY

BLAND had been using Mexican Tourist Card

No. 9878507.

5.

Participating in the arrest of JAY BLAND was

Federal Judicial Police Agent VINCENTE YLLAN

GARCIA.

SIORDIA stated he would be available as a witness

and could travel to Miami, Florida, to testify

to the above.

He stated he would carry

copies, of documents reflecting the

above information.

Confidential

-3

+6-425-217-37

NW 45961 DooId: 32295203 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MEX. 26-3458

Confalential

SIORDIA also stated that he had received tentative

permission from his Group Chief, RAMON DEL RIO, to

make the

above

trip.

eü)

STORDIA stated that he does not speak English. (u)

Con arran

16-425-217:37

74 45961

DocId: 32295203

Page 6

---

## Page 7

JEK Act 6 (4)

MM 26-37623

'Confident 1ad

The El Paso Division of the Federal Bureau of

Investigation additionally advised that the files contained

a letter dated May 25, 1971 to VICTOR K. SIZEMORE, Assistant

United States Attorney, El Paso, Texas confirming an opinion

between SIZEMORE and Special Agent DONN K, SICKLES in which

SIZEMORE declined prosecution of ADOLFO PEREZ HOLQUINg a

Juaraz Customs Broker, inasmuch as there is no evidence that

the vehicle he was found in possession of was knowingly

transported into the Western District of Texas.

Car Designated Number 15:

1970 Chevrolet Malibu, light green,

four door,

Vehicle Identification Number 13690R257908, and 1971 Florida

tag 1E-12861.

previously had volunteered information

to the affect that he believed that one JOHN T, SHADWELL

had

rented at least one or more automobiles, reported the

same

over to someone else, Concerning JOHN T. SHADWELL,

on May 10, 1973, advised the following:

advised JOHN T.

SHADWELL was employed

by AA Holiday, Incorporated for sèven years. He stated

SHADWELL was a former ship captain and had some connection

with Marina I. He stated the man spoke with an English

accent, was about 48 years old, believed his

middle name

TARRING and his date of birth was about February, 1925:,

a rental

located Shan ten ate telidar. Incorporated,

car agency at 633 N.E. 79th Street.

this business no longer exists.

Trented a 1970 Chevrolet

Malibu, light green, four door,

Vehicle Identification Number

136390R257908,

from

Atlas Rent-A-Car, Incorporated, 160 NoW.

79th Street, 757-5508. At that time, SHADWELL gave his

telephone number as 940-1839.

doubted SHADWELL could

be reached

at that number any

longer.

—At that time, SHADWELL

was working on "Two J's" yacht.

Renting out the automobile

he made an $80.00 deposit.

Three days later, on November 17,

1970, SHADWELL

reported the car

was stolen. Atlas Rent-A-

Car was eventually paid for their loss by All State Insurance

Company.

The alleged theft was reported to the North Miami

Beach Police Department.

stated the North Miami

Beach Police Department case file was 8530-C, and the All

State claim number was 42B2175.

Cola

idential

-12-

9110090

NW 45961 DooId:32295203 Page 7

---

## Page 8

JEK Act 6

(4)

MM 26-37623

Conf Afontial

SHADWELL claimed the car had been stolen at Marina I.

stated he saw SHADWELL perhaps one month ago.

SHADWELL

had expressed a desire to rent a second car from Atlas Rent-

A-Car, however,

declined the rental in view of the fact

he suspected SHADWELL stole the aforesaid 1970 Chevrolet himself

and turned it over to someone else.

Hề stated he believed

SHADWELL had done the same to AA Holiday, Incorporated; however,

he stated the records of this corporation no longer exist and

he did not think the details of that matter could be found at

this time.

+ 12

-13-

HH 45961 DocId: 32295203

Page 8

---

## Page 9

MM 26-37623

A confidential source abroad advised the

following concerning MARTHA PEREZ who apparently was found

in possession of this automobile in Mexico:

Investigation at Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico,

reflected that MARTHA LETICIA SANTIAGO PEREZ had formerly

been the Director of the Welfare Section of the Mexican

Federal Social Security agency at Guadalajara, Jalisco.

A recent investigation by the Security staff of

this institution

reflected that she had been involved in the theft of documents

and checks, as well as the conversion of Social Security funds

to her own use. She was charged and arrested for these crimes;

however, due to the intervention of her boyfriend, LUIS JIMENEZ

SEDANO ,

son of the former Cheef of the Federal Judicial

Police, General LUIS JIMENEZ DELGADO, She was released after

repaying the money that she had stolen.

Whileushe was detained at the headquarters of the

State Judicial Police at Guadalajara, she was questioned

concerning the stolen Torino.

She stated she had bought this

vehicle through LUIS JIMENEZ SEDANO; however, she refused to

furas any aromation concerain, the or der else. el

GRAND JURY ACTION

On August 7, 1973 Assistant United States Attorney

WILLIAM NORTHCUTT advised that he anticipated that the Federal

Grand Jury investigating this matter would probably return an

indictment on August 20, 1973..

26-425-217-37

-20-

HH 45961

DocId: 32295203

Page 9

---

