# docid-32292303

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10209-10079

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-395

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

12/21/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, PUBLIC OFFICIALS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292303

Page 1

383

---

## Page 2

Released under the dohn f.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kermiedy Assassination

Recorus

Lion AOt of F552

Hate) .

FEDERAL BUREAU CE IN.: 7 0001

U.S. DEMARIMEDi UP JUDICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DECR. 1 1961

TELETYPE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont-

Mr. Mohr...

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Do mach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

DEFERRED

12-21-51

9-14 PM SM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-38821

FROM SAG, CHICAGO 192-3731

1 P

GUSPALEX, AKA, ARO DALLY SUMMARY, IN VIEW OF THE FACT IMAI INFORMATION

HAS BEEN RECEIVED FROM ANOTHER SOURCE INDICATING THAT GUS ALEX IS POS-

SIBLY ASSOCIATED WITH SAM SAMARAS, FORMER DEPUTY HEAD OF THE STATE OF

ILLINOIS FINANCE DEPARTMENT AND WITH ANDY FASSEAS FORMER HEAD OF THE

ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE, QUESTIONS WERE DIRECTED TO CG SIX FOUR

NINE EICHT DASH PC AS TO WHETHER OR NOT HE KNOWS IF EITHER OF THESE

• INDIVIDUALS ARE ACQUAINTED WITH ALEX. INFORMANT ADVISED THAT HE DOES

NOT KNOW SAMARAS BUT IS WELL ACQUAINTED WITH FASSEAS AND THAT

ALTHOUGH HE HAS NO DIRECT KNOWLEDGE THAT ALEX AND FASSEAS ARE ACQUAINTED

HE WOULD NOT BE SURPRISED IF THEY WERE. INFORMANT SAID THAT IT ISH

UNDERSTANDING THAT ONE OF THE FUNCTIONS OF ALEX FOR ORGANIZED CRIME

TO MAKE AND MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH POLITICIANS AND PUBLIC OFFICIALS

WHO ARE OF GREEK EXTRACTION• INFORMANT SAID THAT ALEX HAS A VERY

PLEASANT PERSONALITY AND IS A NATURAL FOR THIS TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT

INFORMANT SAID HE WOULD ATTEMPT TO SECURE INFORMATION TO ASCERTAIN

SAMARAS AND FASSEAS ARE IN ANY WAY

ALEX. ALEX FARMED AND

DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIESREC. 95

END AXPAACKO PIROE

10-16 PM OK FBI WA

7, 3182-281

BH

. = 10A

Cà DèO 284961

TU DISC

DocId: 32292303 Page 2

---

