# docid-32329833

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/23/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90088-10013

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 62-9-35-464

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: OC

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

07/08/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

BENJAMIN BINION

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

DocId: 32329833

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATES H1127477

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

7-8-66

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO :

FROM:

DIRECTOR FBI (62-9-35)

BAC OKLAHOMA CITY (92-52A) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

ANTI-RACKETEERING

OKLAHOMA CITY DIVISION

Remyairtel 7-1-66.

OC 416-PC has advised that TOM WARD is a bookie and

gambler at Lawton, Oklahoma..

WARD has been engaged in this

business for many years and has a wide acquantance in the

gambling element.

Two or three years ago, WARD made a visit

to Las Vegas, Nevada, where he lost his limit at the gambling

tables in the Horseshoe Club.

NEVI

WARD has casually known BENN

BINION,

owner of the

Horseshoe Club, for a number of years. / On this occasion,

BINION asked WARD if he wanted a little credit,

and how

he wanted.

WARD said he would like to have "five," meaning

$500. BINION promptly told the cashier to extend

$5,000 credit

to WARD.

WARD accepted this credit without question

and then

Oproceeded to lose the whole sum at the gambling tables. About

a year went by and then WARD started receiving letters wanting

the $5,000.

Due to many other debts, WARD claimed he was

unable to pay.

Two or three months ago WARD received word that

Manless he paid this debt, something might happen to him.

This

NOr

word came via a telephone call received at WARD's home and was

sel

Mur taken by Jon

LENNINGS, who was there at the time. The caller

OKLA

Bureau

REC21 629-35-4111

1 - Oklahoma

City.

JUL 1 1 1966

JDS : wr

(4)

7O JUL 211966

Approved:

Sent

-*M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32329833

Page 2

---

## Page 3

TeLes: I de-2019 John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet of 1992 141 USE 2107 Water.

0. 0:0

0°

• OC 92-52A

told JEnninGs something to the effect that he should tell

WARD to take care of his debts or he "would have a visitor."

As a result of this call, WARD is fearful that something will

happen to him someday.

WARD claims he still cannot pay the $5,000 debt

because of other pressing debts, including one to the

Internal Revenue Service.

This

information has been furnished

to the Las Vegas Division.

LEROY DALE HINES, aka, IGA, BuFile 162-1073

JACK RITTER, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, formerly an

informant of this office, and subject of Oklahoma City file

165-84, advised 7-7-66 that he had been a gambler for about

35 years.

He admitted that during the football season of 1965

he received his line and football cards from LEROY DALE HINES,

Tulsa, Oklahoma.

He said that HINES sent the cards and line

sheets to him every week via bus, and that he picked them up

in an envelope at the Oklahoma City bus station.

Occasionally, when HINES was in Oklahoma City for

gambling or other reasons,

he would leave the cards and

line sheets with the barmaid at the Thunderbird Inn,

City, where he would pick them up in person.

called HINES on a weekly basis in order to get the line.

He said that LOUIS BOND EGBERT, an employee of HINES, usually

answered the phone and gave him the line.

;

-2-

DocId: 32329833

Page 3

---

