# docid-32338165

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/16/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90140-10122

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-339499-17

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO:

LALLIER

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/18/1960

1

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32338165

Page 1

---

## Page 2

в

ES. OPTICHAL CORM NO, 10

UNITED STATES GOVERV!

BENT

~ Memorandum

TO

FROM :

SUBJECT:

Tolson

1. 13lb0

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

SENTIAL GIone

DeLoach

McGuire -

MR. R. O. L'ALLIERAM

DATE: • 5-18-60 JUN/

CIA HAS MO ARIFCTION TO

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room.

S. J. PAPICH

Ingram -

Gandy

RELEASE GO CIA INT-ORMATION

EUSEBIO JUAN MUJAL Y BARNIOL

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 11-14-97 s

POTENT IAL CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE - CUBA

Reference is made to memorandum dated 5-6-60 from

Mr. Donahoe to Mr. Belmont. The subject, a well known labor

personality under the Batista Government in Cuba, volunteered

information to the Bureau concerning alleged communist

activity in Cuba. [By letter dated 5-9-60 we informed /CIA that

Mujal allegedly hada network of agents in Latin America and:

that he was interested in contacting CIA.

We asked CIA to

advise us if the Agency was interested in the subject.

(и)

was well known

On 5-17-60 Mrs. Jane Roman, CIA, advised that Mujal

to CIA but he was not regarded as an individual

who could furnish any information not already known

• to the

Agency. CIA does not desire to establish contact with him.

The Agency is under the impression that Mujal is seeking

rancial support. (p)

CLASSIFIEO BY 5668

6111-96

SLD/KSR

ACTION:

DECLASSIF

XON: 25X

This information is being directed to the attention JFK)

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

labor

SJP/nmn

2,3

6/14180

1 - Mr. Donahoe

-

Mr. James

- Liaison

1

- Mr. Papich

CLASS. & EXT. BY

REASON - FCIM 11,

DATE OF REVIEW

EX. 105 /

REG- 56

100-339499-17

lias

APMIROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND DELA DICES

TVSED My ROUTING

SLIF S:

DATE

7/1:80

15 JUN I 1960

= 2.

. COPIES MADE,

DATE la/ 26 7BBY

RE

PAPICK

FOR REVIEW AT rainu

DELIVERY

by.

TO ASCA RE REDURST LAIRD ...

(SEE BUFILE 02-117290)

3N. 12-10-97 (JEK)

5668 542/15R INFORM I CONTAINED

CLASSIFIED

HEREIN IC UD

EXCEPT WHE

OTHERWISE

CONFI

NW 45752 DocId: 32338165

Page 2

---

