# docid-32211108

## Page 1

Date: 08/12/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: WC

RECORD NUMBER

: 179-40004-10112

RECORDS SERIES :

10 :

RUSSELL, BERTRAND

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CD 148)

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

: 08/31/64

SUBJECTS

LANE,

MARK

GARST, JAMES

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER,

TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

COVER MEMORANDUM; P.

1-2; BOX F07

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 50529

DooId: 32211108

Page 1

---

## Page 2

I Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

commisBion NO.

SECRET

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT yeTIcatomiered

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Ruciell, Bertrand

August 31, 1964

MARK LANE

JAMES DELANCY GARST

T-1,

a contidential source abroad, advised as 10110ws

on August 25, 1964:

1964, when he arrived at London Airport irom Copenhagen,

and April 16 when he left London Airport: for Amsterdan,

Holland. A secret and reliable source of I-l reported

that he had attended the lighth Congross of the Interna-

tional Association of Democratic Lawyers (IADL) which vas'.

held in Budapest from March 31 to April 6, 1964 The

Continental press carried a story to the effect that he

explained his views on the Kennedy assassination and asked

the IADL to form an international committee of noted layers

to discover the real circumstances under which the Kennedy

LANE returned to Ingland

on June 9, 1964, arriving

at London Airport from Copenhagen, Denmark.

He was ac-

companied by his llanceo, Miss ANNE-LISE DABELSTIEN, a

Gesigner, born May 15, 1941, traveling on a Danish pass-

Shortly after his arrival he attended

a press conference at the Airport which had been arranged

by JAMES DELANEY GARST and at which LANE again expressed

his views on the Kennedy assassination.

He also told the

reporters that BERTRAND RUSSELL had written to him to say

that he wished to form an organization in England to be

called the "Who Killed Kennedy Committee?".

He went on

to say that the Cormittee had now been formed, without a

chairman, but with GARST as secretary. They have received

some publicity in the British press,

in particular in the

"Daily Worker" of June 12 and 30, ,1964.

According to LANE,

the objects of the Committee were to collect and disseminate

all available information and evidence relating to the as-

sassination of President Kennody and to insure justice for

the Oswald Lanily.

I-l has no information to show to what

extent the Committee is actively pursuing these objects

5-25-89

Classi

• Declasshy on:

565 58 0/AHE

AGREES

9803 RDD

3-3-43

JER SPECIAl

SECRET

idaatic

ALL INFORMATION CONTAN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

CASEY. WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Mestar

Meride

HIN: 50529

DocId:32211108

Page 2

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/RSR

DECLASSIEY ON: 25X

162

3/30/99

(JAK)

---

## Page 3

SECRET

LANE was to have left England for Florence and

Rome on Juno 14, 1964. Ho paid another visit to England

between June 21, 1964, when he arrived at London Airport

from Brussels, Belgium, and June 30, 1964, when họ left

London for New York, having been recalled to appear before

the Warren Commission investigating President Kennedy's

death.

During this latter visit he did not come tu t-l's

attention.

(1)

With

regard to the "Who killed Konnedy Committee?",

the secrotary, JAMES DILANCY GARST, 15 taking a greater

interest in the Anarchist movement.

He left the United

Kingdon for Detroit by air on June 30, 1964, and I-l has

no evidence of his return as yet.

He has recently been

under consideration for appointment as tutor in Extra-

Mural Studies at the Univorsity of Dar-es-Salaam in

Tanganyika.

I-l is unable to say whether he will obtain

this appointment. (5)

I-I furnished a copy, which is attached, of an open

letter issued by Lord BERTRAND RUSSELL at the

time oj the

formation of

the "Who Killed Kennedy Committee"

The

other members of the cormitteo are listed in paragraph 2

of page 6. T-l pointed out that none of the members of

the Connittce were considered to be Communists, although

they cover a large spectrum of left-wing opinions and

have in varying degrees been publicly associated with

organizations penetrated, and in some cases, controlled

by the Communist Party of Great Britain,

Enclosure

SECRET

- 2-

NW 50529 DocId:32211108

Page 3

---

