# docid-32335040

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-90120-10145

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4196-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

01/15/1964

2

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32335040

40

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the

DATE:

11-14-2017

MEPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

2010.100

MA 122011.ON

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

VERNMEN'T

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4196-53)

DATE:

1/15/64

6.2897

SAC, WFO (97-1354) (RUC)

CLASSIFIED BY 5668, SLO/KSR

DECLASSIFY!

CN: 25X.

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE (FPCC);

(JFK)

IS - CUBA; RA-CUBA

IS - C; IS - SWP.

(00:NY)

CRASON EXT. BYSE ESULTHE

REASON

ReBuairtel 12/18/63, to New you and other origes.

-coup +2236687-26-86

Classified

declassify

News publications recently have pointed to the

disbanding of the National IPCC. On 1/14/64, WF 1282-S pointed

out that such activity would not affect CLAU since as source

reported on 4/22/63, CLAU no longer maintains its affiliation

with

FPCC in New York.-

WE 1282- reiterates at present that

CLAU is "divorced" from FPEC. It is

No money is sent to IPCC by CLAU. OX/U

an independent organization.

CLAU, however, is very nearly defunct. As of 1041/63

WE 1282-S reported there was no money in its treasury. Its .

Meetings of CLAU

members have become infrequent.

At the last meeting of

CLAU members held in ANN RICK's Apartment on 11/6/63, only

lass

Dec

four members were present: They were WE 1232-S, LUCILLE OSTON,

ANN RICKS, and BLANCHE MCNEILL (since deceased) •

These persons

were referred to as the "Committee" by WE 1282-S. AU

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNOTESSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Only three such meetings of CLAU members were held

in 1963g

Two were in preparation of April, 1963, public meeting.

There are no public meetings planned at present.

CLAU has no elected officers.

There is no

governit body.

Its leadership

in past year was provided by

WF. 1282-S and

ANN RICKS• (AU

Active CLAU members

at present,

who are informally

• the "committee" by WF 1282-5 are:

WF 1282-S,

ANN RICKS, CHARLES GIFT, AND LUCILLE OSTON®

Individual files. of the latter three individuals have

been reviewed in

accord with Bureau instructions: wou

Bureau

REC-1 F7-41

24/

New York (97-1792 (IRM)

2

- Washington Field

(1 - 97-1562) (CLAU)

157-4196 181 To 060

DJAN

Toy soRe Retonin

4196

CONFIDENTIAL

NOT RECORDED

NAT, DIT*

174 JAN 27 1964

totel.

ORIGINAL

DocId: 32335040

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Releaserl

DATE:

under the

11-14-2017

Assassinat ron

-Retortis

Correction Hut or

1992

194030

note) .

CONFIDENTIAL

WFO 97-1354

Review of file for ANNYRICKS reveals that she is

on Reserve Index, Section B, of this office. Current report

concerning her activities was submitted by SA THOMAS C.

RIES, 3/25/63, at Washington, Do Cer entitled ANNABELLE Rs.

RICKS, aka, SM-C. She was interviewed on 2/23/55, at

which

indicate she would be uncooperative at this

tine she was completely uncooperative and ratherities

it is felt that any information she can offer in this matter

na 221n5, 20a2123 otsce tee througa services

Review of file for CHARLESGIFT, shows, he is on

Security Index. He is an elderly retired

individual, who

has suffered heart attacks since January, 1960, and has been

in poor health recently. He was identified as

• CP member 1962-639

and also as active member; of CLAU.

He was interviewed in 1953,

and 1957, and was uncooperative.

Reinterview at this time not

deemed advisable.

Current report of SA PHILIP H. WILSON,

DC

dated 4/5/63, entitled

101-1239) 'was submitted.

"CHARLES TREFL GIFT, SM-C" (Bufile-

Review of file of LUCILLE OSTON shows she is on

Reserve Index, Section B, of this office. She was identified

as "inactive"

member of IIIAR (CLAU) as of 9/10/62, by

WE 1232. She attended CLAU meetings 1962-63. When interviewed

by FBI on 10/29/57, OSTON uncooperative, stated if ever she

has information which she thinks might be of assistance to

FBI she would not furnish it There is no indication she has

changed her opinion.

It is not ielt she has intormation to

and te addition to that furnished by WE 1282-S, and MT I238-S C

and interview not deemed desirable.

Current report of SA

JOSEPH E. KELLER,

dated 4/24/63, at Washington,

Do

Co

entitled "LUCILLE EXOSTON, aka,

SM-C" was submitted.

In view of above,

no further action regarding

the matters outlined in reBUirtel is contemplated.

CONFIDENTIAL

-2.

DocId: 32335040 Page 3

---

