# docid-32336434

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-90134-10018

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-92991-72X

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: WMFO

1O: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/25/1952

'PAGES:

48

SUBJECTS :

EDWARD PIERPONT MORGAN

LOIS PAULA CHRISTENSEN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

- CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS : RPT, REFERRED TO DOJ, INC INTV, ENV

si.,

49.1

DocId: 32336434

2

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) •

DATE

11-11-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form NO. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT

REPORT MADE AT

WASHINGTON, D. C.

WASHINGTON, D. C.

DATE WHEN

PERIOD FOR WHICH MADE

MADE

4/25/52

21-2375224-16,

LOLS PAULA

CHRISTENSEN,

nee Lois Paula

carol ile,

was. Lois Lockner, Lois way. s,

Cora Hille,

Luckner

Carol Luckner,

Paula Caroly von

Lois liamer

June Christensen

Mrs. Roy christensen,

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

christensen Corporation

FILE NO

REPORT MADE BY

REN: tob

SA ROSSER L NALIS (A

CHARACTER OF CASE

BRIBERY

51 C

During 9/30/50 Bureau received information that

/ce t het

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, St. Peul, Minnesota for a o

ce 7older

care of Senator BRIAN MC MAHON and EDWARD POCK

MORGAN, former FBI agent, out of tees to ber

allocated to CHRISTENSEN CORPORATION Based upon

investigation at that time by wro and Minneepol is

offices, the Department concluded that subicotta

described.conduct.was not in viOLatOn_©y

Federal Law.

In 11/51, subject CHRISTENSEN was

arrested in Marin County, California on bad check

charge, and subsequently made lengthy statements tor

Marin County District Attorney concerning her

alleged association with WALTER BUTLER COMPANY,

St.

Paul, Minnesota, and certain Government officials.

Subject furnished information to Marin County

authorities that

she had heard that a clique of

Leading Senators in Congress including BREEN MC MAHONs

SCOTT LUCAS, MILLARD E. TYINGS and TOM CONNAL, CO-

gether with GORDON DEAN, Chairman of the Atonio Energy

Commission, controlled the award of contracts for

construction of a proposed hydrogen plant

to cost

$245,000,000 and that entree to cliquerwas through

EDWARD P. MORGAN, member of firm of WELCH,

MOTT and

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

PRECIAL CHARA

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

62-9299 - 12X

- Bureau (62 92991) (ATrA. ROSEMAR 2 1952

Asst. Director (Enels)X 166 50S 23 6N

Chicago (Inf. )

-

Minneapolis: (58-50)

San Francisco (Inf. ) (58-145/0224

SC

RECORDER DES

MAKE : 190

3

S.PRO

AGENCY

Washington Field (58-322) UECEIASON

LOUN 5 19527

REPORT AND ITS CONTENTS ARE LOARED TO YOU BY THE BLAND ASE NOT TO BE DIST GUTED OUTSIDE O

DocId: 32336434

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 05C, 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

58-322

RIN: aad

On April 10, 1952 Mr. FRANCIS D. FLANAGAN, Chief. Counsel,

Permanent Senate Sub-Conmittee for Investigations, interviewed Mr. EDWARD

P. MORGAN and obtained a statement from him regarding matters herein

discussed.

Copies of Mr. MORGAN's statement were obtained from Mr.

FLANAGAN and are being furnished to the Bureau as enclosures with this

report.

In the memorandum of HON. JANES. M. MCINERNEY, Assistant

Attorney General, Criminal Division, dated March 21, 1952, received by

the Bureau from the Department, the following background information

pertaining to subject LOIS PAULA CHRISTENSEN was furnished:

"LOIS PAULA CHRISTENSEN, nee Lois Paula Lauckner, was born

in Auburn, Michigan, on September 12, 1919, the youngest of three children.

Her mother states that as

a child the subject was headstrong, untruthful,

self-willed and bent upon having her own way. The subject attended high

school in Saginaw, Michigan, from 1934 until May, 1938, when she quit

without graduating. Upon inquiry, an official of the high school, by

• letter of December 4, 1941, states of LOIS LAUCKNER:

"While she attended our high school, LOIS was

considered very silly, boy crazy, and overly

mature physically.. She was dishonest and

unreliable. Her excuses for absences were

usually quite fantastic. It was rumored

around the school that she indulged in liquor

and drugs so that we were not sorry when she

left school.

"According to the Parole Report of Agent J. P: GLEASON,

a pesand real loNe or it Torait the sub eat even a that during

with a married attorney of Magara Falls, New York. In January, 1939

she was hospitalized in Saginaw, Michigan and received medical treat-

ment for complications resulting from an abortion. In February, 1939

she married ohe CARL BOSE in Indiana, whom she claims to have left after

Leois PAuLA

-30 -

DocId: 32336434 Page 3

---

