# docid-32289885

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10202-10161

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-3182-601

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

08/11/1962

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

GAL, B/F INT, ASSOC

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

DocId: 32289885

Page 1

218

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (4V USC 2T07 Kote).

, DATE: 11-14-2017

0.

DECODED COPY

Tolson -

Belmont

Mohr

callahan

Conrad

DeL odor

Rosen Ne

Sullivan

Tavel

The rom

Holmes -

Gandy

Radio

«x Teletype

DEFERRED

8011-62

3:39 AM LUC

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

101194.0

GUS ALEXiS AKAO ARO DAILY SUMMARY •

CG 6443-C ADVISED THAT GUS ALEX: IS NOW THE OWNER OF THE

TOWN AND COUNTRY RESTAURANT, CHICAGO, AND THAT ANTHONY SMITH

AND HIS BROTHER, TED SMITH, ARE THE FRONTS FOR ALEX. AT THIS

RESTAURANT. INFORMANT SAID HE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION FROM

BOB JARVIS, WHO IS KNOWN TO HIM AS A FENCE AND A SPORTS BETTOR.

INFORMANT FURTHER ADVISED THAT HE LEARNED FROM. JARVIS THAT

THE PURVEYORS WHO FURNISH MEATS AND VEGETABLES TO THE TOWN AND

COUNTRY ARE PAID IN CASH BY ANTHONY SMITH AND HIS BROTHER AND

THAT THERE ARE NO CHECKS GIVEN FOR THIS FOOD.

• IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT THE KOPPER KETTLE RESTAURANT AND

THE NEW IMPERIAL INN ARE ALSO OWNED AND OPERATED BY ANTHONY

AND TED SMITH. UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO DATE

TO INTERVIEW ANTHONY SMITH REGARDING HIS ASSOCIATION WITH ALEX

AND ALEX'S ALLEGED FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE TOWN AND COUNTRY.

EFFORTS CONTINUING.

RECEIVED:

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

REG 20

4:48 AM ENT

12 3/89

601

• AUG 13 1962

12

53 AUG 1 6 1962

contained in the above message is lo be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

sade tased recede the Bored see graphic systems

DocId: 32289885 Page 2

---

