# docid-32304328

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10285-10340

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 63-4296-26-614

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, LA

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 04/20/1960

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

FO, CRIM ACT, ASSOC, TELEVISION PROGRAM, VICE ACT,

HOLLYWOOD, CA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/23/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

HT 54462

DocId: 32304328

Page 1

3

---

## Page 2

JIANDAND FOKM NO. DA

C

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-4296)

DATE: April 20, 1960

SAC, LOS ANGELES. (94-558)

SUBJECT:

CRIMDEL,) - CRS

"End Ih1s Confusion"

The editor of the "Herald Express" today demands

that the law governing wiretapping must be amended... "to

protect the rights of law-abiding citizens; and amended 1n

such clear language that the shield of 'civil rights'

cannot be employed by hoodlums, murderers, kidnapers."

He points out that evidence obtained by wire-

tapping cannot be used in federal cases, and other courts,

state and federal, have held that this

prohibition extends

to states in which the laws permit the use of wiretapping

for gathering evidence in criminal cases.

"Without legal wiretapping, law enforcement

agencies would be powerless to deal with many kinds of

criminal activitles, and the imposition of the federal

stricture upon the states would, in the opinion of police

and prosecutors, result in a 'gigantic legal jailbreak.'"

The decision of a U.S. Appeals Court that federal

courts should not interfere with state prosecutions in

which state-approved wiretap Information 1s used as evidence,

Is acclaimed by the "Herald Express" editor because it

"returned the element of common sense to the law." However,

he does not feel that this ruling 1s enough.

He thinks the

Federal Communications Act, Section 605, needs to be spelled

out "so that even judges and justices can understand 1t.

"It was never meant to protect the criminal,

but has been so construed in hair-splitting decisions."

3 - Bureau

2 - Los Angeles

FHT: pk

(5)

REG 35

63-4 296-26-614

NW 54462 DooId: 32304328

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CRIMDEL (LA 94-558)

4/20/60

KENNY DUNCAN ' 8

Swing Parties

KENNY DUNCAN has such uncanny ability with guns

that for several-years he has performed the trick shooting

for actor Gale authY.

such ability naturally begets a

reputation and even the police, experts that they may be,

hesitate to challenge this man.

source

Consequently, as a notorious host of "real

swinging" parties - sex orgles involving the free exchange

of partners - KENNY DUNCAN has at least so far been 1mmune

to Interference by Hollywood vice officers.

According to

LA 4062-0 who has been DUNCAN's guest on more than one

occasion, the parties in DUNCAN's apartment have never been

interrupted by the law.

This conversation between the CI and SAs followed

the arrest of BILT TALMAN, the District Attorney In the

PERRY MASON television series who the informant has known

for years.

He said TALMAN was recently bemoaning the

adverse publicity he had received from his Involvement in a

swing party with SUSAN SNOW, one of the best known nude

models in pornographic circles, and her husband.

Informant said he has many times attended swing

parties with TALMAN and a motion picture actor, DANE CLARK,

usually at KENNY DUNCAN's place.

Another couple often t

these parties'e actor WAYNE MORRIS, now deceased, and his

wife, as was PAr-BUTTRAM, the comic reflef actor in Gave

AUTRY's shows.

M1: 1111.

According to Source, swing parties often go on

through the night and morning, and getting a second Invita-

tion depends on a guest's "sportsmanship" which 1s said to

be judged by DUNCAN who keeps a sort of scoreboard. One

couple, named as BILL GRAHAM, a Hollywood career man, and

his wife SHIRLFY, Decame Involved in swing parties on the

advice of their psychiatrist who allegedly told them that

marital difficulties they were suffering could be alleviated

In this way. Informant said they're still married, so

apparently the treatment was effective.

So goes Hollywood where a contract was recently

executed between JACK-DOUGLAS of Jackit Productions, which

NH 54462 DocId: 32304328 Page 3

---

## Page 4

-1724

CALIA

CRIMDEL (LA 94-558)

4/20/60

FREDDY OTASH

produces a television series "Sweet Success," and Private

Investigator BRER QtASte recently convicted of fixing horse source

The contract,

according to LA: 42222-6, calls for one

or two shows tentatively entitled "Otash of Hollyrood."

Maybe, but not probably, one of the episodes will

portray OTASH In conversation with some of his numerous call

girl friends such as SUSAN VEL.BOURNE,

OLympia 7-2659. She

could be shown chatting about her date with the popular

actor, PHIL NILVERS,

at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas last

"January and how SILVERS was so happy with her that he has

continued the relationship in Los Angeles.

If that isn't good enough, FREDDY has a million or

so other stories to choose from.

-5 -

....

NH 54462

DocId: 32304328

Page 4

---

