# docid-32331523

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90097-10145

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

166-637-158

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

BA

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/28/1966

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.l

DocId: 32331523

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BA 166-63

to the arrest of NESLINE, TOURINE, and associates by st.

Mary's County state authorities and their subsequent indict-

ment by Federal Grand Jury in Washington, D. C. on May 13,

1965, for violation of Federal and District of Columbia

gambling statutes.

Ün March 25, 1966, Departmental Attorney ALFRED N. KING ad-

vised SA PHILIP C. LEWIS, Washington Field, confidentially,

that he was of the opinion that CHARLES TOURINE and JOE NESLINE

had evidently decided they would fare better in their trial

if they had separate trials and they will undoubtedly try for

this.

He said he has not been advised to date of the identity

Of TOURINE's new attorney. He added that the Government would

Cavor having the ITAR trial of NESLINE and TOURINE precede

the trial of NESLINE arid the others involved in the Amber

club activities.

Las Vegas advised by allel 3/30/66 captioned, "HERMAN WILLIAM

NEUMEYER, aka.

"Tefty"

I'WI; 00: Baltimore"

that LV 117-C-TE

stated on March 25, 1965, that the biggest illegal gambling

operation he knows

of today is a "skin game"

(a card game)

being conducted in the Miami, Florida,

area. by JOE NESLINE

and ALLEY HARRIS. Informant said that his information is

that they are operating wide open and for large sums.

-

-

COPIES:

Bureau (166-637)

- USA,

Baltimore

3. - Miamì (166-159)

(92-105)

4 - New York (166-254)

1 - USA

- 92-81'

Washington, D. C.)

2 - Baltimone (166-63)

B

COVER

PAGE

DocId: 32331523 Page 2

---

