# docid-32294141

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10417

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-530

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, RO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/07/1963

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, INVEST, COOP, ITALY, US, WHEREABOUTS, GENTILE,

NICOLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/01/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32294141

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

THE FOREIGN SERVICE

OF THE

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

The American Embassy

Rome, Italy.

DUS

REVIEWED BY ER/JFK TASK PORCE

ON

4/15/00 m

RELEASE IN FUL

RELEASE IN PART

(92-6054) 17 TOTAL DENIAL

(92-80)

(P)

Date:

To:

Subject:

November 7, 1963

Director, FBI

Legat, Rome

LA COSA NOSTRA

All-Carispiri cy

ReRomelet, 10-28-63.

Set out below are the contents of an airgram

classified "Limited Official Use", from the American

umbassy, Rome,

to the Department of State, Washington,

D. C.,

dated October 29, 1963.

The airgram succintly

reports on a conversation had between Mr. JULIAN P. FROMER,

Political Office, American Embassy, Rome, and Dr. FRANCESCO

COSENTINO, Italian Senate Officer, Rome, concerning the

exchange of information between the U. S. Senate Investi-

gations Subcommittee and the Italian Parliamentary Anti-

Mafia Commission.

"1.

(a)

Italian group interested in knowing

scope of Senate inquiry under its term of

reference, and (b) its methods of investigation

and gathering information.

"2.

Italian group would like to ex-

change all available published records of each

group's activities. In addition, it would hope

to be able to exchange 'classified' information

dealing with individuals or organized gangs which

might be useful in facilitating investigative pro-

cesses. For latter exchange, Cosentino suggested

REC-14 92. 6054

3 - Bureau

1 - Rome

(1 - Liaison Section) /

19: 3

92-80

530

JCM: OC

(4)

DocId: 32294141 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Teased under the john F. Kennety Assassination Recorus Collection Act of 1992 197 050 2107 10807

DATE: 42-14-2017

Italians would use their diplomatic pouch to

Washington for Embassy relay to Senate sub-

committee which in turn might use Department

pouch to Embassy Rome for forwarding.

113°

To make initial contact between

two groups, Italians would use either letter

lirect to Mr. Adlerman or send restricted grout

to washington for talks.'. In latter connection

Cosentino raised this question:

Italian group,

reflecting overall membership Parliament, con-

tains Communist legislators.

What would

be U.s.

would probably be Senator Girolamo LiCausi,

longtime party leader in Sicily, and vice-

president of Mafia Commission)

"Embassy Officer said would report con-

versation.

Re possible Communist member dele-

gation, he limited reply to noting provision

U.S. immigration laws for waiver, which depended

on facts each case. Further instructions this

point would be appreciated (Embassy Comment:

One way to avoid

immediate confrontation this

problem could be for Senate subcommittee to send

members or representatives here for talks with

Italian counterparts). "

On October 28, 1963, the Italian Police advised

that they have still been unable to locate NICOLO GENTILE.

In this regard it is to be noted that on October 26, 1963,

Mr. MICHAEL G. PICINI, U. S. Narcotics Bureau representa-

tive, American Embassy; Rone, advised that his office

was also attempting to locate GINTILE for interview.

Rome is following this matter closely and

pertinent information developed will be promptly

reported.

DEA

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

3/24/92 DAb/211

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

I TOTAL DENIAL

- 2-

DocId: 32294141 Page 3

---

