# docid-32305754

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/29/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10288-10384

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

105-96780-1

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Cased:NT 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/16/1961

15

WPD, EVID, HDW, TYW, RESULTS, DECIPHER, ASSOC,

CUBAN EXILE DOCTOR, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE, LAB WORK SHEET, LAB RPT, ENV

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32305754

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SE

NO 105-

The above are allegedly notes of subject furnished

by PCI BETTY PARENT. YU)

Two copies

nished to the New York Division to facilitate handling of

leads set forth herein and one copy of each of the above are

being furnished to the Miami Division for information in view

of the interest of that office in Cuban matters.

The Bureau's attention is directed to the letterhead

memoranda contained in referenced New Orleans airtels, which

letterhead memoranda contains iniormation attributable to PCI

BETTY PARENT, New Orleans, Louisiana, Inacating that subject

claims to be

working with

• CIA and contains background informa-

tion concerning DALZELL.

Referenced Bureau

Totter advised that DAlZELl was

not connected with CIA

и)

The enclosed handwritten notes indicate that subject

is in contact with a "Mr. RAYMOND,

Pan-American Radio,

InC.,

104 Rockerfellow Plaza, New York City, New Yorka

(1) The Laboratory is requested to make an analysis of

the

handwritten ciphers contained on the aforementioned enclo-

sed notes to determine whether or not the eiphers contain a

coded message a The Laboratory is also requested to furnish

any pertinent

information obtained as a result of its examina=

tion, which may be of assistance in future interview of subjeo

The New York Division is requested immediately to

ascertain

the full identity of "Mr. RAYMOND,

Pan-American Radio,

Inc., 104 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City, New York," and

all pertinent background data regarding him.

Although CIA

has advised that DALZELI was not connected with CIA, it is

conceivable, based on information contained in the notes at-

tributable to DALZELL, which are enclosed, that "Mr. RAYMOND"

may possibly be a CIA source

и)

It is being left to the

discretion of the Bureau as

"FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEM

seminated

OCRATICO.

=2-

SECRET

NW 53074 DooId:32305754 Page 2

---

