# docid-32424909

## Page 1

Date

: 08/28/98

Page

.

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

JCS

RECORD NUMBER

: 202-10001-10178

RECORDS SERIES : FOIA SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : DOC 179

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

D9-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE : PROGRESS OPERATION MONGOOSE

DATE: 07/05/62

PAGES

: 3

SUBJECTS

: MONGOOSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1C

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 07/30/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

: Reviewed by JCS, OSD, CIA, State.

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) 50X5

MAR

2016

DATE EXEMPTED:

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 31T0ZCZ037

OKAY TO TELEASE AS TUEDACTED

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH

54214 DooId:32424909

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Decrationa. My visit to the Miami area Included diecussiono

with the uperationa stass of tbe ClA gration, which carries the brust

of current mork on Operation Mongoose. I was pleased to note

that ClA ias built a team which has a number ol people experienced

in operationa into Conmuniet controlled arcao (Europe and Asia),

whose know-now strengihens lie operationa of people with latin

Americas experience. Tucy have sume problema, naosi of miica

are being resolved on lbe operatiag level. Some probleme involve

policy matters, which are being stalled for presentation to you.

Overall, this is a splendld effort by Cla vitain prescal guido-

lines. On intelligence-colicetion, the magaitude of the special

emphasis given the operation ls incicated by the prescace of is

agents now in the fiabana area alone la ratuer remarkable accomplish-

meat in a Communist capital inere tiere is no olictal U." presence).

In accilion, there are ageata and seama in the provincca; efforts are

being made to complote tbe provincial coverage at an carly care, since

there die soine areas insufficiently covcred now.

"Voice of Cuba." Tho

parate CLA weekly renos

ed tie

succesaiul initial broaúcasti

publication of the fact lat surreroacicasts were heard le

Re U.S. 1, 2, Y

soc u.s..

and lhe replay of this news back into Cuba, los the general public. It

'modest Uit carried this newe isem, bui spiced it up with added

stories of Casiro'o use of milita against guerrillas in datanzas.

The two stories pur together by UFl have no relationship in reality,

and the 'Voice ol Cuba' broadcaste are being closely crected to fit

in with other operationa and to keep within ongoose guidelines.

Dinlomatic. State reporta shat diplomatic efforts are being made

so bloci Cuva's application for accrecitation to the Luropean lcononic

Community, Similarly, cliorto are being mace to excluce Guia from

the proposed Latin American Free Trado arca.

Contingency Planning, Runora la mid-June of a Cuban upfiziar

led to may lasring lciense for further contiagency planning, inclucing

an Interag

apartmental plan.

Icienge reports thie planning, io progrce

ing well.

an interim soport, Iclenso notes that vnlle the 18-cay

2

| HH 54214 DocId:32424909 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Docrations. My viait to the Mismal area included diecuesiono

with the uperations stall of the ClA station, which carries the brust

of current work on Operation Mongoose. I was pleased to note

that ClA ias built a team which has a number al people experienced

in operationa into Connunlat-controlled arcao (Lurope and duia),

w'nose know-now strengthens the operationa of peoplo with Latin

American experience. Tuey have sume problame, mogi ol wirica

are being resolved on the operating level. Some problems involve

policy matters, which are being stalled for presentation to you.

Overall, this is a splencild eífort by cla mitsia prescar guido -

liacs. Da intelligence-colicction, the magnitude of the special

cmphasis gives the operation lo incicatei by tine presence of :5

agonis now in the Habana arca alone la ratier remarkable accomplish-

ment in a Communist capital wnere tiere is no oliiclal U.J presence).

In accition, there are agcnis and seama in the provincca; efforts are

being made to complete the provincial coverage at as carly date, since

there are soine arcan insufficiently covcred sow.

"Voice of Cuia." Thor

asparate ClA weekly report

red tue

successiul initial broadcasti

From a U.S. Lary submarib

tue U.S. 1, 2,4

publication of the fact tat silencbroaccasis were heard

int u.s.,

and the replay of this news back into Cuba lor the general public. It

dehat tetcarried this newo item, bui spicke it up wit. acded

stories of Castro'8 use of milita against guerrillas in dataazas.

The two stories put logother by Ufl have so relationship in scality,

and the "Voice ol Cuba' broaucasto are being closely drected to fit

in with other operations and to keep within iongoose guidelines.

Dinlomatic. State seporta that ciplomatic efforts are being made

so bloci Cuia's application for accreciltation la the Luropcan Liconomic

Commusity, Similarly, clorts are being macie lo excluce Gula from

the proposed Latin American Free Trade arca.

Contingency Flanning.

Runora la mid-June of a Cuban uprision

led so my laring Lciense for further contiagoncy alanning, inclucing

an Inter-de

parimental plas. .

Iosense reports this planning lo progres

ing well

a an interim soport, Icíense notes that wnlle the 18-cey

WH 54214 DocId:32424909 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Ocrationo. My visit to the Misral area included discussiona

with the uperationa stall of the ClA station, which carries the brust

of cursent work on Operation longoose. I was pleased to note

that ClA las built a team which has a number ol people experienced

in operations into Commualst-controlled arcas (Europe and Asia),

wnose know-now strengthens ine operations of people with latin

Americas experience.

They have sume problems, most of wiich

are being resolved on lbe operating level. Some problema involve

policy matters, which are beiag stalica for presentation to you.

Overall, this is a splencid effort by ClA within prescat quico-

lace. Da intelligence-colicetion, the magaitude of the special

emptasis given the operation is incicated by tho presence of b

agenis now in the Habana arca alone la ratier remarkable accomplish.

ment in a Communist capital inese tiere is no olíiclal U.J pregence).

In acivilion, there are agents and ieama in the provinces; elforts are

being made to complete tbe provincial coverage at an carly cate, since

there dic soine arcar insufficiently covcred now.

"Voice of Cuba." Thor

asparate ClA weekly report paled tue

successiul initial broaúcasts

publication of the fac! Mat silem broaccasts were heard ibrat U.s..

tie U.S: 1, 2; Y

and tho replay of this news baci into Cuba los the general public. It

Iad that VEtcarried this new item, bui spiced it up will added

stories of Castro's use of militia against guerrillas in datanzas.

The swo stories put together by UrI have no relationship la reality,

and the 'Voice ol Cuba' broadcaste are being closely directed to fit

in with other operationa and to keep within jongoose guidelines.

rinlomatic. State reporte shat ciplomatic efforta are being made

8o bloci Cura's application for accrecitation la the Luropean ¿conomic

Community. Similarly, clorts are being macie to cocluce jula from

the proposed Lalin American Free Trado arca.

Continency Flanning. Mumors la mid-June of a Cuban uprisiar

led to my lasrina lciense lor further contiagency planning, inclucing

an inier-assarimental plaa.. Iciense reports tato planning is progres

ing well

As an interim roport, Iciense notes that walle the 18-cay

HH 54214 DocId:32424909 Page 4

---

