# docid-32330995

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90094-10085

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-584-3957

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 06/01/1964

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

JOAQUIN GODOY Y SOLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE :, PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32330995

Page 1

14

---

## Page 2

Released under the Joha

DATE: 71-14-2017

Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

Alpha 66-II Erente-Movimiento

Revolucionario del Puebio (MRP):

NY I-I, on May 13, 1964, advised that he was ar

telephonic contact with Miriam Teste of the Alpha 66-II Frente

vp in Miami, Florida.

CUbana JURE). Miss Teste stated that the

was working very quietly and in the immediate future woula be

fighting inside Cuba. NY T-1 advised that Miss Teste said that

or oranization would not be inside Cura by May 20. 1904. a

his was too early but would be there shortly thereafter. U

NY T-1 also advised on May 13, 1964, that in a letter

received from his niece who recently had a letter from loaguin

Godoy of the MRP, Codoy wrote that there was no agreement

between their organization and the juRe of manolo Ray.

also wrote that the Alpha 66-II Front-MaP does not have

working agreement with Manuel Artine Buesa of the MRR.

Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE) :

NY I-2, on May 11, 1964, advised that he had beea 10

Miami, Florida, on the week-end of May 2-3, 1964.

on the night

of May 3, 1964, NY I-2 advised that he met with Manuel Fay, the

head of JURE, and made an agreement whereby he would accompany

Ray and members. of the JURE into Cuba on or about May 20, 1964. U

NY I-2 advised that during the week-end of May 2-3,

1964, the last meeting of the National Directorate of the JURE

was held. NY I-2 advised that fron: Ray he learned that the

following members of the National Directorate took part in this

meeting:

Rogeli

& Cisnerge Perez of Mtami, Florida,

Ray, Chibas

of New York,

FlA

Manuel Ray, of san Juan, Puerto Rico,

- 3-

CUBA

CONFXENTIAL

DocId: 32330995 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2109 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Anti-Fidel Castro Activities

Jose Gomez.of Miani, Florida..

CUPE

jose San Martin of San Juan, Puerto RICO,..

flA

cupA

orlando Castro of venezuela, and

CUBA a

Jesus Napoleon Secquer of Tampa, FlorIda, Who 1s CUBA

the representative Of the bera cOn AnyOneuDa

headed by ex-Comandante Hubert Maos, who currently CuBA

is serving a prison, sentence on the Isle of Pines.

entered Cuba

the jure inside Cuba.

Ray aiso, according to a I-a stated

that Jose Gomez, Orlando Castro and Jesus Becquer of the

National Directorate of ¿URE would accompany him into Cuba. U

NY I-2, on May 13, 1964, telephonically advised that he

received

telephone call from Manolo Rly on May 12, 1964,

advising him, NY 1-2.

to proceed imediately to Miami, Ilorida.

in: 1-2, on May 13, 1964, advised that he was

then in Miani, Florida,

wairing further contact from the JUrE prior to their inciltnation

into Cuba. U

Infiltration:

NY I-I on May 13, 1904, advised that in conversation

with Dr Carlos Prig,Socarras, former President of Cuba, Pric

remarked that the raid on the

sugar mill of centrar peron by

Manuel Artime and the MAR was the beginning of the liberation -

movement of Cuba from Communish.

Puro commented, according to

NY I-I, thatthe group of Manuel Artime is very well eauipped and

has excellent boats,

Prio also told NY 'I-l that the infiitration

of people into Cuba is

of the auben situation, „ the beginning of "the process of liquidation

NY. T-] also advised on May 13, 1964

- 4 -

CONSOENTIAL

DocId: 32330995

Page 3

---

