# docid-32158158

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION HORM

1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10126-10345

RECORD_SERIES: SF

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 44-494-231.232

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 53025 Date:

05-18-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. SF

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/30/1964

PAGES: 4

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 44-24016-1063

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

03/12/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LHM

HW 53025 DocId: 32158158 Page 1

---

## Page 2

1/30/64

AIRIEL

AIR MAIL

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (44-24016)

FROM : SAC SAN FRANCISCO (44-494)

SUBJECT:

JACK Lo RUBY, aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD - VICTIM (DECEASED)

CR

(00: Dallas)

DEFENSE ASSOCIATE FOR THE RUBY TRIAL

Enclosed herewith is a LHM setting out the information

contained in San Francisco file 100-33976, Bufile 100-379424025

concerning BROMBERG.

Investigation has never placed BROMBERG in Communist

Party membership.

U. S. Attorney Cicil I. POOLi, San Francisco, advised

SAC CURTIS 0. LYNUM On 1/29/64 that & DI: WALTER BROMBERG had

been listed in the newspapers as one of the psychiatrists who

have been used by the defense in connection with the hearings

in the RUBY case at Dallas, Texas.

USA POOLE advised that he

did not have the specific information concerning BROMBERG but

that he recalled BROMBERG had a questionable background and that

he, POOLE, had conveyed this nonspecific information to Mr. RILEY

a Departmental assistant.

lie had been unable to give Nr. RILEY any specific

details other than that he recalled that there was sons scandal

in connection with Dx. BROMBERG leaving Sacramento and that it.

was runored that BROMBERG

went to New York to be with a mistrass

3

1

Bureau (Encls./5)

Dallas

(44-1639) 2192.

1)

San Francisco

64454947

(1 - 100-33976)

CJN: ab

(6)

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed

2et 1-30

32

HH 53025

DocId: 32158158 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SE: 44-494

Sacramento Resident Agents, through established

sources and without making any inquiry, determined that Dr.

BROMBERG and his wife, ESTHER, have been in Sacramento, Calif »

since September, 1948.

In 1956 he was self-employed as a

physician at 2720 Capitol Ave. and reported a salary of $15,000.

His wife reported a salary of $415 per month as & social worker

for the State of California. He formerly resided in Reno, Nev.

BROMBERG left Sacramento in about January, 1963, for New York

City, to obtain further schooling:

Several years ago, a nurse (identity unknown) from

Napa, Califo, made a conplaint that Dr. BROMBERG conducted

"sex parties" in which he struck women companions with a whip.

The first source mentioned in the LiM is the City

Civil Service records,

Sacranento, Calif

The second source

is SF 1950-5•

The above and the enclosed LHM is for the information

of the Bureau and Dallas in the event that the Bureau desires

to instruct the SAC,

Dallas, to convey this infornation to the

prosecuting attorney in Dallas County.

IW 53025 DocId:32158158 Page 3

---

