# docid-32989793

## Page 1

File #:

SF 62-7038

Serial Scope:

6 THRU 8

12,13

NW 55211

DocId: 32989793 Page 1

---

## Page 2

-

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-117290)

Sp6, SA FRANCISCO 682+

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON ASSASSINATIONS

8/28/78

) (BERKELEY RA)

Enclosed for the Bureau is the original and

four copies of an Lil' concerning this natter.

SA ROBERT F. PEVAHCUSE, Berkeley Resident Agency,

was initially contacted by Supervisor JAY I. ALDHIZER,

Congressional Inquiry Unit, on 7/14/78, to advise request

had

to talk with fir. EBERHARDT.

On 7/19/78, SA PEVAHOUSE discussed this natter

turther with Supervisor RON HELLER, Legal Counsel at the

Bureau, as to potential statements concerning interview.

No further contact was made until Mr. EBFRHARDT

telephonically contacted SA PEVAHOUSE on 8/28/78 as set

forth in enclosed LhI.

2 - Bureau (Enc. 5)

D-

San Francisco

Aheaon S

(mfo)

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793 Page 2

Serialized

indoxco_

Filed

"2-7: -13

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer so

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

San Francisco, California

August 28, 1978

NW 55211

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

On August 28, 1978, Special Agent (SA) Robert

F. Pevahouse, Berkeley Resident Agency, Federal Bureau

was telephonically contacted by

of Investigation (FBI select Committee on Assassinations.

Mike Eberhardt, House

He was furnished the residence address and telephone

number of SA Pevahouse.

Mr. Eberhardt inquired about the fugitive

investigation of James Earl Ray during the time Ray

was an Unlawful Flight fugitive.

He was told SA Pevahouse

received a lead from another office to contact Jerry Ray,

brother of James Earl Ray, who was living in Northbrook,

Illinois at the time. Jerry Ray was contacted telephon-

ically by SA Pevahouse at which time Jerry advised he had

est seen pease on his bay her incipid neation

escape from prison.

he had concerning other members of the family, including

John Ray, none of whom were in the Chicago area. It was

the recollection of SA Pevahouse that John Ray was in the

St. Louis area at the time.

SA Pevahouse could not recall

specific time of interview as to number of months prior to

assassination of Martain Luther King•

He noted there were

no other relatives or associates of James Earl Ray inter-

viewed in the. Chicago area to his knowledge.

Concerning the investigation after the

assassina-

tion of Martin Luther King, Mr. Eberhardt inquired as to

knowledge of any specific records from the Sportsman's

Club in Northbrook, Illinois, to show if Jerry Ray was

working at the time of the assassination. SA Pevahouse

stated he could

not recall at this late date any specific

records concerning the dates worked, but,

as he recalled,

personnel at the Sportsman's Club had indicated Jerry Ray

was there except during regular days off.

-

—.. --...

... ... ....=

-

-

This documents contains neither recommendations nor conclusions

of the FBI.

It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your

agency; it

and its contents are not to be distributed outside

Saitsad

5 - Bureau

- San Francisco (62-

).

DocId:32989793 Page 3

62-7038-121

---

## Page 4

VZCZCHQJ869

RR AL AT BA 34 BS BU CE CE CI CV DU DE HO IP JN JK KO LA

ME M MI MP MO NK NH NO NY OM PH PX PE PD PH. SC SL SD SE SE SI

IP WF

DE HG

3585 1575320

ZNY EEESC

R 952195Z JUN 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62 117293)

TO FSI ALBANY

FBI ATLANIA

FBI BALTIMORE

FLI BIRMINGHAM

FBI BOSTON

FEI BUFFALO

FBI CHARLOTTE

FBI CHICAGO

FBI CINCINNATI

FBI CLEVELAND

FBI DENVER

FBI DETROIT

FBI

HOUSTON

FBI INDIANAPOLIS

FBI JACKSON

JEANCHED.

SERIALIZED,

FBI JACKSONVILLE

_INDEXED_

JUN 5 1978

FBI-SAN FRANCISCO

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793 Page

: 4

---

## Page 5

PAGE TWO DE HO

POI KANSAS CITY

FEI LOS ANGELES

PBI MEMPHIS

FUI MIAMI

FBI MILWAUKEE

FBI MINNEAPOLIS

FBI MOBILE

FBI NEWARK

FBI NEW HAVEN

FBI NEW ORLEANS

FBI NEW YORK.

FBI OMAHA

FBI PHILADELPHIA

FBI PHOENIX

FBI PITISBURGH

FBI PORTLAND

FBI RICHMOND

FEI SACRAMENTO

FBI SAN DIEGO

FBI SAN FRANCISCO

1385 UNCLAS EFT

NW 55211

DocId: 32989793

Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE THREE DE HE

D00S UNCLAS

FBI SEATTLE

FEI SPRINGFIELD

FBI SI. LOUIS

FBI TAMPA

FBI VASHINGION FIELD OFFICE

ST

WiDEs TO 99-58-81152176

3(12176)

3-650109

MOUSE SELECI COMMITIZE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

157031

BUDED JUNE 12, 1978.

RE: BULST TO ALDANY, ET AL, AUGUSI 25, 1967, CAPTIONED

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAN, SLOOK MATTONALIST-MATE GROUPS,

INTERVAL SECURITY" AND "GUAIRTEL TO ALZANY, IT AL, FARCH 4,

1968, CAPTIONED "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK NATION!-

ALIST-HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE"•

THE HSCA WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSIMATION OF

JOHI F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JI., NOTING THAT

REPEREICEU COMMUNICATIONS ASKED RECIPIENT OFFICES' TO MAKE

PEFIODIC REPORIS TO THE EUREAU, HAS RECUESTED THAI RECIPIENI

FIELD OFFICE FILES DI SEARCHED AND ALL REPORIS, LETTERHEAD

MEMORANDA, AIRIELS, LITTERS AND TELETYPES CONCENNING

Refer

100-53341

no?,

173-65

89-58

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FOUR DE HE' 9085 U3

ASEFTO

8/25/67

to

DR. MARTINGLUTHER KING, SR., ON THE SOUTHERE CRISTIE

LENDERSHIP COUFERENCE (SCLC) SUBMITED PURSUANT TO REFERENCED

COMHUNICATIONS UP TO AND INCLUDING DECEMEN 31, 1968, B5

PREPARED FOR DELIVERY.

THE HSCA REQUESTED. THAT OUR RESPONSE IN. THIS MATTIR BE

GIVEN TOP PRIORTY OVER ALL OTHER ASPECTS OF KING INVESTIGATION.

FBI HEADQUARTERS (FBIMA) FILES HAVE BEEN PAPTIALLY

PROCESSED IN RESPONSE TO A SIMILAR REQUESI, BUT TO INSURE

COMPLETENESS AND THOROUGHNESS, EACH RECIPIENT OFFICE FURNISH

FBIHO TWO XEROX COPIES OF ANY COMMUNICATION MEETING ABOVE

• CRITERIA. COPY SHOULD REACH FBIHE 3Y JUNE 12, 1975.

ALL COPIES SHOULD EE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT

REGISTERED MAIL, MAILED TO THE ATTENTION OF THE COUGRESSIO AL

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MAMAGEMONT DIVISION, ANY QUESTIONS

• CAN

DE' RESOLVED BY CONTACTING SUPERVISOR RICHARD C. BUSCHING,

EXTENTION 3685.

RECIPIENI OFFICES HAVING DO COMMUNICATION MEETING CRITERIA

ARE TO SO NOTIFY FBING.

BT

0385

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793

Page 7

---

## Page 8

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24-77)

TRANSMIT VIA:

EX Teletype

• Facsimile

Ml ances

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

XXRoutine

CLASSIFICATION:

O TOP SECRET

0 SECRET

• CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

XX CLEAR

Date

6/9/78

EM SAN FRANCISCO

(62-7038) (SQD 14)

DIRECTOR (62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

UNCLAS

ATTENTION:

CONGRESSIONAI INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT

DIVISION

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

RE BUREAU TELETYPE, DATED JUNE 5, 1978.

SAN FRANCISCO UNABLE TO LOCATE ANY COMMUNICATION

MEETING CRITERIA.

BT

RSBYcjm

(1). L

Searched =

Serialized..-

Indexed-

Files

225

Approved:

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793 Page 8

Transmitted

(Number)

62-7038-7

723PM

(Time)

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 9

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793

Page 9

1-9501:29

Searched _-

-pazien

Indexed

Filed _-

MOILDOINTNAUO ANN GEVOUT UE STEGNA DOSIONVUL NOS

CTOSH) SNOILUNISSOSSO TU BILINGUO LUSTES BONUA

TWIN SUONA IN IONI TWISSI IN NOININI

NUISINIU

SUTONI

TA CAN FRANGISCO (62-7738) (SOD 14

Z5TOWTYT ISLUTO

---

## Page 10

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

Transmit the following in

TELETYPE

Via

-

FBI

Date: 2/8/77

CLEAR

(Type in plaintext or code)

ROUTINE

-(Precedence)

EM SAN FRANCISCO (62-NEW)

TO DIRECTOR (62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

CLEAR

ATTENTION GENERAI INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION, CIVIL RIGHTS

SECTION, CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

REBUTEL, FEBRUARY 4, 1977.

SAN FRANCISCO HAS NOT DESTROYED ANY FILES THAT RELATE

TO THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.

BT

173-65

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

ESACON

GAH: kah

62.703816

Approved:

B/pr

Special Agent in Charge

NW 55211 DOOId 32989793 Bage 10

Sent

---

## Page 11

SF0216 040227Z

RR HQ

DE SF 018

R D9D220Z FEB 77

FM' SAN FRANCISCO (62- NEW)

•TO DIRECTOR (62-117290) ROUTINE

BT

CLEAR

ATTENTION GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION, CIVIL RIGHIS

SECTION, CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT.

• HOUSE SELECT CÖMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS.

REBUTEL, FEBRUARY 4, 1977

SAN FRANCISCO HAS NOI DESTROYED ANY FILES THAT RELATE

TO THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING•

BT

Bld

68-7038-6

NW 55211 DocId: 32989793

Page

11

---

