# docid-32206559

## Page 1

Date: 08/16/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

: NARA

: 179-10002-10112

RECORDS SERIES :

WC DOCUMENT REVIEWED BY FBI FOR HSCA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

TO

:MORRISSEY, JAMES F.

TITLE

LHM, WASHINGTON, D. C

DATE : 03/27/64

PAGES

: 29

SUBJECTS :

DEMOHRENSCHILDT, GEORGE

LARIN, LILIA PARDO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: S

RESTRICTIONS

REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 06/10/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS:

PP. 1-29 AND A UNNUMBERED PAGE

CD

#777D

---=-

...._

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 50529

DocId: 32206559

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-201 1io

4. 3-3-59)

-

Commission

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

777&

SECRET

Copy to:

Report ofs

Dates

JAMES F.

MORRISSEY

3/27/64

Flold Offico Fllo is 100-1689

Titler

GEORGE DE HOHRENSCHILDT;

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

Washington, D.C.

Bureau Fllo d, 100-32965

DECLASSIFIED BY 5668 Sch/s

3•20-95

Characters

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

JFKS

Synopsiar

Third Agency

Third Agency

Background information on subjects as obtained from

records set forth.

Therein is admission of his illicit

relationship with

MIS. LILIA PARDO LARIN. He was naturalized

7/11/49 after

determination that. no legal competent

evidence secured to prove he was pro-German or communist.

She was naturalized 2/28/45. Results set forth of

investigation of male subject by State: in Belgium, Mexico

and Vonezuels in connection with ICA appointment 1957.

Mrs. LIDIA PARDO Vaa. de LARIN in 1957 interview during

Stato Investigation described their association. Washington,

"D.C., records info set forth re former wife, PHYLLIS DE

HOHRENSCHILDI.

She pationt for mental observation in

Washington, D.C.,

hospital during January, 1964. Records

WF T-2, government agency, revealed 1962 correspondence

in which he offered information concerning his provioto

extended travel through Mexico and Central America to

State Department.

- RUC -

SecreT

Grpup 1

Excluded from automatic

downgrading and

declassification

This document contains nelther recommendationa nor conclualona of the FBI. It la the proporty of the FBI and la loaned to

your agency; It and ite contente are not to be distributed outaldo your agency.

50529- Doct 15216355

Pare KA

---

## Page 3

4ід .

WFO 100-1689

Third Agency

TABLE OF CONTENTS

I. Review of

• file GEORGE S. DE MOHRENSCHILDT

Third Agency

2..

Review of

3.

4.

Dof GEORGE S. DE MOHRENSCHILDT.

Background information re PHYLLIS DE

MOHRENSCHILDT

5. File Review of WF T-2, goverrment.

agency

= 6 ..

Miscellaneous government agency checks

Page

8

12

21

23

26

---

## Page 4

#FO 100-1689

HDP: PAP

1

REVIEW OF FILE ON GEORGE S. DE MOHRENSCHILDT AT

CENTRAL OFFICE OFS

2/28/64

Third Agency

An application for an Immigration Visa executed at

Antwerp, Belgium, 3/18/38, by GEORG VON MOHRENSCHILDT re

flected

that he was born April 4, 1911, at nozyrz, Russia,

and had resided in Belgium since 1930.

He was single and

his occupation was listed as a newspaper reporter. He was

described as 6' 1" tall, fair complexion, brown hair, and

gray eyes.

He alleged

that he could speak and read English,

French, and German.

His mother, ALEXANDRA ZOPOLSKI, waS

deceased and his father, SERGE VON MOHRENSCHILDT, resided

at Wilno, Poland. He expected to enter the United States

at New York City and planned to visit his brother, DIMITRI

VON MOHRENSCHILDT, who resided at 950 Parks Avenue, New

York City. He intended to remain in the United States

permanently and would have approximately $3000 upon his

arrival

in this country.

VON MOHRENSCHILDT stated he

possessed Polish passport number 687/37 Issued to JERZY

(GEORG) VON MOHRENSCHILDT at Polish Consulate, Antwerp,

Belgium, July 30, 1937, valid until Jaruary 21, 1939.

He was issued Immigration Visa number 2429 on harch 31,

1938, under the Soviet Union quota.

He arrived at New York

on the S. S. "Manhatten" May 13, 1938, On July 12, 1938,

subject filed his declaration of intention to become a

United States citizen at Brooklyn, New York.

At that time,

be listed his occupation as a journalist and listed his

residence as 950 Park Avenues

New York City.

He filed the

petition as GEORGE SERGIUS VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

Subject filed an Alier Registration form September 27,

1940. On this form he listed his date of birth as Apzil 17,

1911. He also stated that he had served in the Polish Army

from May, 1929, to September, 1930. On March 31, 1941, at

New

York

• City, subject, as GEORGE VON MOHRENSCHILDT, applied

for a re-entry permit.

At that time be was residing at 109

East 73rd Street, New York City. The application reflected

he planned to depart for Mexico and Central America during

jo....

3

32206559

---

## Page 5

-:.

WFO 100-1689

HDP: PAP

2

April, 1941, for the purpose of collaboration in taking

documentary

pictures.

He expected to remain one month

or more. At that time he was connected with Film Facts,

33 West 60th Street, New York, New York. Re-entry permit

number 1327807, good for one

year, was issued April 8, 1941.

On June 17, 1942, at Washington, D. C., subject

submitted an application for another re-entry permit.

reflected he expected to depart the United States at Laredo,

Texas, for Mexico for approximately eight months to conduct

business started previously and to see new fields. His

address was listed as 3822 Benton Street, N. W., Washington,-

D. C.

Third Agency

Letter dated June 23, 1942, from

• Philadelphia,

advised subject that before consideration could be given to

his application it would be necessary for him to execute an

• attached form and submit it to that office with a release form

from his local draft board.

The

•form was executed in

Washington, D. C., June 25, 1942.

It indicated subject was

traveling on a Polish passport issued July 30, 1937, valid

until March 24, 1943. It further reflected he was classified

4-F by Local Draft Board 44, New York City, and desired to proceed

to Mexico to settle business pending after

previous trip and also

intended to get married.

He also enclosed a release from the

Selective Service Board

for him to go to Mexico for six months.

Subject advised that he was then using last name of DE

MOHRENSCHILDT instead of VON MOHRENSCHILDT®

Third Agency,

furnished

By memorandum dated July 18, 1942

• background information on subject tot s

• advising that DE MOHRENSCHILDI

had requested a re-entry permit

for travel to Mexico and Central

America.

It also stated that

files contained nothing

which would prevent the issuance

By memorandum

dated

July 29, 1942, theod

a advised sathat it

did not concur in the issuance of a re-entry permit to subject.

Third Agency.

By letter of August 14, 1942, subject was advised

by

that his re-entry permi was denled at that time.

The

file contained a memorandum dated December 21, 1942,

F=

7:%!

4

HH 50529

DocId: 32206559

Page 5

---

## Page 6

#FO 100-1689

HDP: PAP

3

Third Agency

reflecting that a check of the files of the New York Office

of the FBI indicated that DE MOHRENSCHILDT was subject of

an active investigation by that Bureau.

The file further

stated that the

investigation would be held in abeyance

until the FBI completed its investigation.

On February 7,

1945,0 determined that the FBI's investigation was then

in an inactive status and no objection would be interposed

to an investigation by t

Third Agency,

By letter of August 30, 1945, l

acknowledged

receipt of subject's application for re-entry permit and

advised him that it would be necessary for him to obtain

a permit to depart United States from the fus

a before

a re-entry permit could be

issued.

On his application for

re-entry permit, subject indicated that he was then teaching

at the University of Texas in the field of petroleum engin-

eering and geology. He advised that he had a contract with

Pantepec 0il Company of Venezuela as petzoleum engineer and

was supposed to leave for Venezuela October 2, He stated

that he had applied for his final citizenship papers

also a permit to leave the U. S. from the United States

Department of State.

Board release to permit him to leave this country.

Authorization

was given bylion October 1, 1945;

• for subject to be

granted a permit and on October 5, 1945, & secozd permit

was issued.

Intelligenss personnel

The tile contained a memorandun dated June 25,

i recommending

that

subject's petition for naturalization be denied, on the

ground that DE MOHRENSCHILDT had falled to establish a

good moral character during the period required by law.

The memorandum reflected that he had admitted

maintaining an illicit relationship with Mrs. LILIA PARDO

LARIN in New York City for two or three months prior to

June, 194l, and had traveled by car with her from New York,

to Mexico in 1941. Subject also adnitted to having stayed

with LARIN at at least one motel where they registered as

man and wife. A memorandun of October 2, 1946, referred

5

50529

DocId: 32206559

Page

6

---

## Page 7

WFO 100-1689

HDP: PAP

4

to the recommendation that subject's petition be denied for

failure to establish good moral character.

Mention was made

DOROTHY ROMEYN PIERSON.

naturalization was filed September 3, 1943, and tie was

divorced June 10, 1944•

He alleged in the petition he

had no children,

whereas the divorce decree awarded custody

of a child to the mother.

Therefore, since apparently a

child was born subsequent to the filing of the petition, it

was recommended that it be determined if subject had

contributed to the support of the child.

On February 5, 1947, subject wrote a letter

to Mr. ROBERT CLARK,

United States Attorney General.

He

complained to the Attomey General that he had submitted

•his petition for naturalization in 1943, and due to

unfriendly attitudes his petition still

had not been

Third Agenc

stransferred to

the court.

He solicited the Attorney General's

advice and assistance.

This letter was acknowledged by

don march 26, 1947. By letter of March 3, 1947; W. W.

SMITH, President, Pantepec O1l Company, Venezuela, advised

the Attorney General that he knew of no information that

would impede DE MOHRENSCHILDT from becoming a United States

citizen.

He stated that he had employed DE MOHRENSCHILDT

In Venezuela, but had sent him home in order not to

jeopardize his application for United States citizenship.

advised that since he was residing in Colorado, his file

advised thay lotte,

By letter of December 15, 1947, subject was

had been transferred to theef poffice at Kansas City and

any further inquiries should be addressed to that office.

hird Agency

On August 12, 1947, subject executed a written

request for dismissal of his petition for naturalization

he was then residing.

1948. He stated that since he had arrived in the

United States, he had been absent from June, 1941, i

6

-

---

## Page 8

WFO 100-1689

HDP: PAP

5

-

to April, 1942, and then from October 18, 1945, to

April 30, 1946. He alleged that he was not married

fendelet

at this time.

Third Agency,

memorandum of May 18, 1949, prepared by

we reflected

that no evidence

• had

been obtained to discredit or disprove the subject's

testimony or that of his witnesses regarding the statutory

Operiod of three years prior to the filing of the petition

and nothing was contained in the file to prove that he had

been other than loyal subsequent to the date of the filing

of the petition.

Memorandum dated May 26, 1949, by Out

reflected that subject between 1940 and

1942,

had been suspected

I and accused of being both pro

communist and pro German.

Subject had admitted on a few

occasions greeting visitors to his house with the Nazi

and communist salute, but this was only done as a joke.

He added that he favored no other form of government in

preference to that of the United States and no legal

competent evidence had been secured to prove he was

either pro German or communist.

The examiner recommended

subject's petition be cleared and that all the facts

be presented to the court.

The petition was approved

May 26, 1949, and forwarded to the Kansas City

'office.

The file reflects that subject was naturalized

July 11, 1949,

at the United States District Court,

Denver, Colorado, Certificate 605708.

Li an

7

50529

Dodid:92206559 "Päge

"8

---

## Page 9

WFO 100-1689

JFM:mbb

1

from

BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON FEMALE SUBJECT

OBTAINED FROM CA

& FILE REVIEW, WASHINGTON, D.C.

Third Agency.

On March 12, 1964s at the

ANIC THOMAS J.

WHITE reviewed the file of JEANNE LE GON, also known as

EUGENIA MIHAILOVNA FOMENKO BOGOIAVLENSKY, which revealed the

following information:

Date and Place of Birth:

May 5, 1914, Harbin, China

Entry into the United States:

August 4, 1938, at San

Francisco, California, via

the SS PRESIDENT CLEVELAND

for permanent residence;

destined to join a relativo,

SERGEI M. FOMENKO, 95 Christopher

Street, New York City, New York!:

Entry Documents:

Non Preference Quota Immigration

Visa #69, issued on July I,

1938, by the American Consulate

General, at Shanghai, China.

Affidavit in lieu of passport

issued on May 12, 1938, by

the American Consulate General,

at Shanghai, China.

A 1 090 666

Alien Registration Number:

Declaration of Intention

Number:

Petition for Naturalization:

455 303 filed in United States

District Court, Southern

District of New York, Now York,

Now, York, on March 7, 1940.

Number 505 148 filed in United

States District Court, Southern

District of New York,

New York,

New York, on December 28, 1944.

8

ки-50529

DoEr 32206559 Page 9

---

## Page 10

:

WFO 100-1689

JFM:mbb

2

Exa

iris

Witnesses for Petition:

WALTER BRAUNHEIM, 62 Clark

Street, Brooklyn, New York

WILBUR DUBERSTEIN, 415

Albemarle Road, Brooklyn,

New York

Naturalization:

Naturalized in United States

District Court, Southern

District of New York, New

York City, New York, on

February 28, 1945, under

Certificate of Naturalization

Number C 6 559 079 as JEANNE

LE GON. Her name was changed

by decree of court from

EUGENIA MIHAILOVNA FOMENKO

BOGOIAVLENSKY to JEANNE LE GON

as part of the naturalization.

On February 18, 1957, she filed an application

for a new naturalization or citizenship certificate. She

stated on the application her certificate had been lost on

or about January, 1957, at Topanga, California, because of

"evacuation because of threat of fire in the mountains". She

was issued a new Certificate of Naturalization on March 22,

1957, at Dallas, Texas.

Relatives:

Father: MIHAILOVITCH

FOMENKO, residing at Harbin,

China, as of May 12, 1938.

Mother; TATIANA MITROFANOVA

FOMENKO, residing at Harbin,.

China, as of May 12, 1938.

Husband: VALENTINE DIMITRIEVICH

BOGOIAVLENSKY, born on January 25,

1914, at Stanitza Nezamaevka,

Russia, married on October 26, 1932,

'*"*

9

---

## Page 11

i

WFO 100-1689

JFM:mbb

3

-gon

Occupation or Employments:

Residences:

10

at Harbin, China, and resides

at 924 Madison Avenue, New

York, New York, as of Decembel

28, 1944.

Child: JEANNE ELINOR

BOGOIAVLENSKY, born on April 30,

1940, at New York, New York,

and resides at 924 Madison

Avenue, New York, New York, as

of December 28, 1944.

Occupation prior to entry

into the United States on

August 4, 1938 was listed as

"Artist of Ballet".

Occupation as of December 28,

1944, was "Women's Stylist".

No other employments or

occupations listed.

1933 through 1936, Harbin,

China

1936 through 1938, Tientsin

and Shanghai, China

95 Christopher Street, New

York, New York, as of

May 12,

1938

298 West Ilth Street, New York,

New York, as of March 7, 1940.

1807 Crotona Avenue, New York,

New York, as of September 10,

1940

-

---

## Page 12

WFO 100-1689

JFM: mbb

4

924 Madison Avenue, New York,

New York, as of February 28,

1945.

Organizations:

Stoneleigh Hotel, Dallas,

Texas, as of March 22, 1957.

None listed

The file contained a Certificate fram the Council

of the United Russian Public Organization of Shanghai, China,

which revealed that the subject, hor mother, and her father

were members of the Russian Orthodox Church in Shanghai,

China.

11

820222

"...

---

## Page 13

WFO 100-1689

JEM: pap

1

Third Agency.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION BE GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

OBTAINED FROM RECORDSS

The file of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT in the

*was reviewed on March 5 and 6, 1964.

Third Agency

Third Agency.

By letter dated August 16, 1957€

Padvised the b

that

the International Cooperation Administration (ICA) had

Poto conduct a full field investigation 01 aim

under Public Law 298. l

pin turn requested thea

to perform overseas investigation regarding

DE

MOHI

LENSCHILD!•

Third Agency,

By letter dated October 28, 1957, the

jorwarded tow..

¿copies of their reports. of

investigation of DE MOHRENSCHILDT conducted in Belgium,

Mexico and Venezuela.

Intelligenso personnel

The results of investigation conducted 14. Belgium

appear in the report offi

Bonn, dated September 26, 1957, and

covers investigation in

Brussels, Belgium, during the period September 9

to 26, 1957.

Pertinent details of that report are as follows:

"A check by a controlled American source revealed

the following information:

"A usually reliable confidential source -- who has

identified subject as GEORGES VON MOHRENSCHILDT, bOrn

April 4, 1911 at MozyIl the following report.

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

(USSR) - has furnished

"Baron GEORGES VON MOHRENSCHILDT, a Journalist of

Polish nationality, lived in Belgium from October 8, 1930 to

July 5, 1938.

He is the son of SERGE and ALEXANDRA, nee

ZAPOLSKI.

His last address here before his departure for

the United States was 84 chaussee de Malines, Antwerp.

12

trenda!

50529

Docid: 32206559

Pate

---

## Page 14

3

twig

#FO 100-1689

2

"VON MOHRENSCHILDT was enrolled as a student at

the 'Institut Superieur de Commerce d'Etat' at Antwerp,

where he is reported to have received a degree in finance

and commercial science in 1933. He then did journalistic

work for the Polish journal 'Slowo' of Wilno, while attend-

ing the Universite de l'Etat at Liege (faculty of commer-

cial science and economics) where he passed his first

doctorate examination with distinction in 1935.

At the same

time he completed his studies at the 'Institut Superieur of

Antwerp, where he is reported to have obtained a degree in

'sciences consulaires'.

"On 4 November. 1931 subject was sentenced by the

Tribunal Correctional of

Antwerp to 8 days in prison on

charges of restting a police officer; 182 francs fine or 8

days imprisonment on charges of, drunkenness and use of a

false name.

Sentence was suspended pending completion of a

3-year probationary period.

"Subject did not betase it

intellien,

The results of investigation conducted in Mexico

appear: in the report of

Mossa dated October 21,

1957 at Mexico, and covers investigation conducted in

September and October, 1957.

Pertinent details of that report are as follows:

"An inquiry at the Secretaria de Gobernacion (Mexican

Immigration Service) supplied the following information:

"George Sergius VON MOHRENSCHILDT entered Mexico through

the port of Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas on June 5, 1941 under a

six month visa.

His visa and immigration card were No.

F-5-14 No. 543125 dated June 5, 1941.

"The record further shows that he is of Polish

nationality (1941) and he came to Mexico with the object of

photographing scenes for a motion picture depicting the

folklore of Mexico. At the time of his entry he presented

Secretaria de Gobernacion a re-entry permit to the United

13

---

## Page 15

#FO 100-1689

3

States No. 1327807 and his immigration No. 16057 and listed

his Mexican address as Paseo de la Reforma No. 237. He also

presented two bank letters, one from Leishman, S.A., Madero

No. 17, Mexico, D.F. dated November 25, 1941 which reported

that he had a net worth of some 32,000 pesos in Mexican

The second letter of worth was issued by the

Banco de Comercio, S.A. located on Venustiano Carranza #42,

Mexico, D.F. which indicated that he had a check balance as

of May

9, 1941 of $1,214.00.

In an official communication

to the Secretaria de Gobernacion from the Mexican Consul in

Laredo, Texas designated as 'Strictly Confidential' informa-

tion read as follows:

'George Sergius Von Mohrenschildt has been closely

watched by the North American secret police and by

the immigration service agents who suspected that

his activities are in a certain way related with

espionage.

'I have known that in Corpus Christi, Texas he was

arrested and questioned for having taken photographs

at a naval base near Aransas Pass, Texas.

'A woman by the name of Lidia Pardo Vda. de Larin,

a Mexican citizen is his companion with whom he lives

asian and wife according to information by the U.s.

police.

'Von Mohrenschildt, who represented himself to be

born in Mosyr, Russia,

Polish passport No. 743462 and visa #167

the Mexican Consulate in Laredo, Texas. He is

traveling in a Chrysler convertible automobile,

gray, with license No. 5N99-37, State of New York.

'According to his declaration he came to Mexico to

film typical Mexican scenes under contract with

'Fact Films'

, a New York organization.

He has

submitted the

names of Lic. Miguel YARZA as a

person who will submit references for him.

Lic.

YARZA has residence on Tiber No. 6, Mexico, D.F.'

14

---

## Page 16

AN TEA.

#FO 100-1689

"The foregoing letter is signed by one St.

Javier OSORNIO C., Mexican Consul, Laredo, Texas.

"Another official letter in the files of the

Subject at Gobernacion reads as follows:

'The Mexican Embassy in Washington informs

Gobernacion that the authorities of the

Department of State have not found any deroga-

tory information against MI. DE MOHRENSCHILDT

so in this implicit manner the information

against this man by our Consul in Laredo, Texas

is annullable.'

"The record at Gobernacion further show that

DE MOHRENSCHILDT departed Mexico April 6, 1942, crossing

the U.S. border at Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas.

Further, he

sent a

letter of application to

the Secretaria de

Gobernacion dated in Washington, D.C. June 17, 1942

requesting permission of the Mexican immigration service

to enter Mexico as a resident for one year and stated that

his object for this visit was to establish a business

organization in collaboration with one Sr. Jose A. HElGUERA.

In this application to Gobernacion he stated that he had

applied for his first papers for U.S. citizenship and he

was exempt from the military service of the United States.

"On July 22, 1942 a Mrs. Lidia PARDO Camargo

requested permission of Secretaria de Gobernacion for Mr.

DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S entry into Mexico for the purpose of

marrying the Subject.

The record further shows that on

August 14, 1942 the officials at Gobernacion issued a

negative answer to Mrs.

PARDO Camargo.

An entry in that

record indicates that as of September 4, 1942 the Subject

was in Mexico illegally but departed within one week.

"These Mexican Government records indicated that

the Subject was born on Aprill, 1911, marital status:

single and he listed his profession as a motion picture

producer and his native language as Russian.

He further

indicated that he spoke, English, Spanish and German and

his nationality in 1941-1942ms Polish but that he had

applied for U.S. naturalization..

15

---

## Page 17

#FO 100-1689

5

"His Mexican references as shown by the Mexican

Immigration Service are as follows:

"Lic. Miguel YARZA, Tiber #6 with professional

offices at Ave. Madero #16.

"Mr. Arcady BOYTLER, shown as General Hangiger

oT Arcadia Cinema, Balderas #39

and

residence as Monte: Urales #609, Mexico, D.F.

"SI. Jose A. HELGUERA who resided at Marsella #26

during the years 1941-1942.

"Sra.

Lidia PARDO Camargo Vda, de LARIN, residing

at Paris #127.

"The following are places of residence of the

Subject during his stay in Mexico City in 1941:

"Dinamarca Street #42 (Washington Apartments Hotel)

"Pasao de la Reforma #237

"A representative of the Security Adviser's office

interviewed Mr. Miguel YARZA who stated that be had first met

the Subject through Mrs. Lidia PARDO during the year 1941.

He stated that he was unable to give firm references concern-

ing the Subject because ke had met him on two occasiong when

they had talked about MI. DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S Immigration into

Mexico.

This informant stated that it had come to his atten-

tion through some now unidentiftable person, that Mr. DE

MOHRENSCHILDT was a German spy and he was under the impression

that

Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT had married Lidia PARDO and that

they had lived in Cuernavaca for some time.

He stated that on

another occasion he had met MI. DE MOHRENSCHILT at a party in

New York and at that time Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT was passing him-

self off to the assembled people as a baron.

However, Mr.

YARZA stated that he was sure Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT was not

engaged in any type of business in Mexico because he was here

as a non-immigrant and therefore not eligible to legally engage

in business in Mexico.

"An unsuccessful attempt was made to interview Mr.

Arcady BOYTLER,

General Manager of Arcadia Cinema, but as of

the date of this report no information was obtained.

16

-

-

---

## Page 18

₩FO 100-1689

6

"The third person listed as a reference of the

Subject at Gobernacion,

Mr. Jose A. HElGUERA, is no longer

living at his given address of Marsella #26.

However, his

brother, Mr. Ignacio HELGUERA, was located at an address

at Isabel la Catolica #89, who advised that his brother

was now living and working in the United States and was

United States for the past ten years.

"Inquiry was made in the Washington Apartment

Hotel which

was given by the Subject as one of his address-

es in Mexico.

One Mr. Ruben GREENE, administrator of the

hotel, stated that be had been working in this capacity

1940 but he does not remember the Subject or Mrs.

Lidia PARDO.

Mr. GREENE stated that the hotel did not keep

records back to 1941 and 1942 and when presented with a

picture of the Subject again stated that he did not recall

the Subject.

"One Mr. Eduardo ELIZONDO was contacted and

stated that he is

the owner of the building located at

Paseo de la Reforma #237 which was the second of two

addresses listed by the Subject at Secretaria de

Gobernacion as his residence in Mexico.

Mr. ELIZONDO stated

that he remembered the Subject very well because he was

living with Mrs. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN at Reforma #237.

He described Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT as an adventurer who

prefers to live on a woman's money and during the time that

he resided with her at that address the subject never worked

but traveled around Mexico as tourists.

Mr. ELIZONDO also

stated that he had heard that Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT waS a

German spy but was unable to give any basis or verification

of this statement.

The informant stated that Mr.

DE MOHRENSCHILDT and Sra. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN were

living in 'concubinage'

paid all of the bills because he had no income of his own.

He stated that since the couple had left the building he had

never heard anything more concerning Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT

but he had known that Mrs. Lidia PARDO Yda. de LARIN had

married an additional three men and volunteered the infor-

mation that she was a woman of some wealth and had very good

influence with Mexican Government officials.

17

- .

---

## Page 19

WFO 100-1689

for.

7

"On October 18, 1957 a representative of this

office interviewed Mrs. Lidia PARDO Vda. de LARIN.

She

stated that she had first met the Subject in New York in

1941 and that they had become very good friends and that

she had accompanied him in his automobile to Mexico.

She

stated that when they were in Corpus Christi, Texas he

took some pictures of some fishing boats and fishing

tackle rental places and as a result the U.s. police

questioned him concerning his activities.

the She 9110o

She stated that

during this trip they were living separately in the same

hotel but was unable to recall the name of this hotel.

"This informant further stated that when she

rrived in Mexico City they resided at Pasco de li

leforma 237 and also on Denamarca Street #42. She

stated

that they used this as a permanent place of operations

while they traveled to Tasco,

Acapulco, Cuernavaca and other

points of local interest while Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT took

pictures and did some painting.

Mrs. 'LARIN stated that it

was her intention to marry the Subject but at that time she

was going through divorce proceedings from her second

husband who was a very important man in the Mexican

Government (informant refused to disclose the name of this

man).

As a resuit of his jealousy in her divorce action

this

Mexican official went to the Secretaria de

Gobernacion and denounced Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT as a German

spy.

The informant stated that this was a false accusation

motivated by her second husband's jealousy. She further

stated that Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT'S mother was a Polish

citizen and his father was killed in Russia and for this

reason he had a terrible hatred for the Russians and their

regime.

She further stated that Mr. DE MOHRENSCHILDT*s

brother was married to a daughter of the family which has

the controlling interest in Chesterfield cigarettes and

who is a teacher at some university in the United States.

MIS. LARIN went on to say that she had never actually

married the Subject and that they were living in the capacity

of 'good friends.'

She further recalled that the Subject

returned to Mexico in 1952 as a tourist, during which time

he lived at the Reforma Hotel.

18

50529

32206559

---

## Page 20

i A.18. Liveria

TREATME

31

WFO 100-1689

8

"The representative of the Security Adviser's

office made inguiry at Sharmer,

S.A., an organization

dealing in petroleum products

at Reforma No. 107.

One

Mr. Glen Adams NELLE who represented himself as the

President and General Manager of Sharmex, S.A. and who

resides at Cascada 430, Jardines del Pedregal, stated that

he met MI. DE MOHRENSCHILDT around the year 1955 in the

United States.

He stated that the reason he met Mr.

DE MOHRENSCHILDT WaS because DE MOHRENSCHILDT had been

married to a Miss SHARPLES, the daughter of Mr. P.T.

SHARPLES,

the owner of Sharmer in the United States. This

source of information further stated that since he was

(Subject) the son-in-law of the owner of Sharmer, he was

put on the payroll in December 1954 until May 1, 1956

during which time he had

a post as consultant in Venezuela

but had never been assigned to the organization here in

Mexico City. Mr. Glen Adams NELLE stated that DE MOHRENSCHILDT

was discharged from his employment with Sharmer because of

Incompetency and general worthlessness. This source of

information stated that he was not aware of the Subject's

political ideorgies or his loyalty but did emphasize the

tact that the Subjett was a 'good-fox-nothingi"' " Britelligens

The results of investigation conducted in

Venezuela are contained in the report of fatt

2 dated

September 30, 1957 at Caracas and cover. investigation

conducted in

September, 1957, Pertinent details of that

report are as follows:

"On September 26, 1957, Mr. Santiago Segovia,

Personnel Department of the Pantepec Oil Company of

Venezuela, was contacted in regard to the alleged employment

of Mr. George de Mohrenschildt by that company from 1945 to

1946.

Mr. Segovia stated that the company was small and its

records did not go back to 1946, but that he personally

remembered Mr. De Mobrenschildt

as he worked with him in the

o11 fields during these years.

He further stated that the

applicant had a good personality, and was well educated, held

a college degree and

was able to

speak four languages.

was his recollection that he had worked as an engineer.

He

further stated that the applicant was a man of good charac-

ter, and that his habits were the normal and

average ones of

19

---

## Page 21

WFO 100-1689

a person working in the oll fields. According to Mr.

Sego fra, the applicant left the company on good terms, and

then went to work on a project in California. Mr. Segovia's

knowledge of the applicant was based on both social and

business association.

"According to Mr. Segovia, the only other person

in Caracas who might possibly remember the applicant was the b

former president of Pantepec, Mr. Warren Smith of Quinta Los

Arcos, Country Club.

and could be

reached at 447 East 57th Street, Apartment 6B, New York 22,

New York.

"Mr. E.H. Adkins, Coordinator, servicio Industriales,

Creole Petroleum Corporation, advised on September 11, 1957

that there was no record of employment of the applicant in

the files of Creole Petroleum Corporation.

"In a letter dated September 25, 1957, Seguridad

Nacional,

national security and law enforcement

agency of

the Venezuelan Government, stated applicant was not listed

in their files."

20

---

## Page 22

WFO 100-1689

JFM: psr

1

BACKGROUND INFORMATION REGARDING

PHYLLIS DE MOHRENSCHILDT

• FORMER WIFE

OF GEORGE DE. MOHRENSCHILDI

The records of the Credit Bureau, Incorporated,

222 6th Street, N. W., Washington, D. C., as

reviewed by

IC EUGENE M.

KIRKMAN

on February 26, 1964, revealed a credit

report dated November, 1961, received January 9, 1964/ by

the Credit Bureau, Incorporated, from New York City, fin the

name of PHYLLIS DE MOHRENSCHILDT. Her address appeared as

11 E. 77th Street, New York, New York.

The report indicated

that

she uses the

names of Mrs. CHARLES CLUSAS, PHYLLIS

CLUSAS,.

PHYLLIS WASHINGTON, PHYLLIS DE MOHRENSCHILDT and

BARNONESS (BARONESS). CHARLES C. CLUSAS was described as

ber second husband from whom she

was divorced in April, 1961.

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT was described as her first husband

from whom she had also been divorced.

According to the

report, she gave an address of 400 E. 52nd Street, New York

City,

but was not living at that address.

CLUSAS filed a

Riot

responsibie notice signitving he would not honor any.

charges she should make.

The report revealed three

unsatisfactory credit accounts for ber.

The records of the Metropolitan Police Department

(MPD), Washington, D. C., as reviewed by IC KIRKMAN on

February 28, 1964, revealed that PHYLLIS DE MOHRENSCHILDT

was transported to the D. C. General Hospital about 11:30 p.m.

on January 8, 1964, by the MPD for mental observation on

affidavits and certificates.

Her address appeared as 1306

Wisconsin Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.

She indicated

she was single,

born January 29, 1929,

in Pennsylvania.

Her

mother's name appeared as SIMONE, ber

father's as WALTER.

Her occupation was described as

consultant.

SIMONE WASHINGTON

was the complainant.

She was admitted to the D. C. General

Hospital by Dr. GEORGE KENTON of the hospital staff. Certificates

of ber condition were submitted by two doctors and affidavits

by SIMONE F. WASHINGTON, 1601 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., and

JOHN A. WASHINGTON, 5055 Glennbrook-Terrace, N. W.,

Washington, D. C.

---

## Page 23

**

WFO 1001689

2

WF T-1 advised on March 6, 1964, that PHYLLIS

DE MOHRENSCHILDT was admitted to the D. C. General Hospital,

Washington, D. C.; on January 9,

1964, for mental observation;

that she was a patient there for

treatment in connection with

same from January y, 1964, until January 24, 1964, When She

was discharged to herself.

WF T-l stated that she was admitted

in a confused state from the Georgetown InD, Washington, D. C.,

on appropriate medical certificates and supporting affidavits.

One of the affidavits was submitted by her mother, SIMONE F.

WASHINGTON.

WE T-l said it was his understanding

that PHYLLIS

had been in New York City or Puerto Rico and was just passing

through or visiting Washington, D. C., area at the time of

Her address was listed as 400 E. 52nd Street,

New York City, telephone number MU 8-8421, c/o FANNY WARD.

WF T-1 described her as an unstable, unpredictable, immature,

childish person, a borderline mental case; said she was an..

intelligent person who could factually answer specific

questions of

a technical nature.

However, if the subject matter

was one of an emotional interest to her, he doubted if she

could give an objective opinion. He said ber life appeared

to be one of maladjustment; that she had a history of

previous mental hospital and professional care.

WF T-l also.

said that the nother, SIMONE WASHINGTON, also appeared in

his opinion to be ab

unstable person; that inquiry would

probably also show a background of instability in her case.

WE T-l said that if it was a case of testifying, he would

legally have to allow PHYLLIS to testify but medically would

recommend against it.

2?.

-

---

## Page 24

WFO 100-1689

JFM: psr

1

GOVERNMENT AGENCY FILE REVIEW RE MALE SUBJECT

The records of WF T-2, another Government agency

which conducts intelligence or

personnel investigations,

revealed a communication addressed to the Honorable GEORGE C.

MC GEE, Undersecretary of State, State Department, Washington,

D. C.

The letter was dated October 19, 1962, and bore the

letterhead of GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT,

Petroleum Geologist

and Engineer, 1639-40 Republic National Bank Building, Dallas,

Texas.

It is as follows:

"Dear Mr. MCGEE:

"You probably remember me from Dallas

where I used to participate in the Council of'

World Affairs.

"Since you left Dallas, I have not had

the opportunity of seeing you and of congratulating

you on your important appointment.

"May I ask your advice on a rather important

Last year and at the end of 1960 my

wife and I made a rather unusual trip - some

5,000 miles on foot and on horseback from the

U. S. border south to Panama, following the

old mining trails and generally staying in the

wilderness in the most secluded and primitive

parts of Mexico and Central America.

We took

photographs and films and made some interesting

geological and archeological observations.

"In addition to becoming very healthy, we

came back with a great deal of important material,

both photographic and written observations, on the

least known parts of these seven countries.

We

were in the wilderness almost a year.

"Now our experiences have been set in a

form of a travelogue which I am about to send to

England and France.

I have been told by my

friends in Europe that they may send my typescript

to U.S.S.R. (sic) where there is a great demand for

travelogues and adventure stories. I understand,

23

---

## Page 25

WFO 100-1689

2

on the other band, that the publishers in this country

shy away from a simple and truthful account like ours.

"Before I send my typescript to Europe, I would

like to show it (also the maps and photos on demand) to

someone in the State Department interested in the situation

existing in the interior of these seething countries.

"We had amazing experiences, e.g, Interviews

with guerilla fighters in Nicaragua and Costa Rica, Inter-

viewed the Indians who had never seen an American before,

and can truly report on the conditions existing in these

various countries.

"My simple report may give some useful ideas

to the policy-forming bodies of the State Department.

willing to eliminate or change some parts which may be

considered harmful to the interests of the United States,

especially if the travelogue is to be published behind the

Iron Curtain.

"My conclusions are based on my many years

experience in Latin America and on my Ph.D, dissertation

(in French) on the mineral resources of Latin America.

So it may be of some use to you. And, I repeat again,

any suggestion on the part of the State Department will be

highly appreciated.

"Upon receipt of your answer, I shall be glad

to forward a copy to any person you may suggest.

"I am sorry to bother you on such an irrelevant

matter.

"With best personal regards,

"Sincerely yours

(signed

(typed)

"G. de MOHRENSCHILDT

"GEORGE de MOHRENSCHILDT,

"Ph. D."

AW. 505

24

20722

-...

---

## Page 26

WFO 100-1689

3

By letter dated October 22, 1962, GEORGE C.

MC GHEE, U. S. Department of State, acknowledged receipt oi

the above letter; said he certainly did remember him from

his participation in the Dallas Council of Horld Affairs.

Mr. McGHEE indicated that he had forwarded subject's letter

to our Latin American experts and trusted that he would be

bearing from them soon.

12

25

*1.91

---

## Page 27

...:

•.

WFO 100-1689

JFM: psr

MISCELLANEOUS

1. Negative U. S. Department of State Security

and Visa Offices Check on Dimitri Von

Mohrenschildt

On March 3, 1964, SA KENNETH J. HASER was advised

that the files of the Offices of Security and Visa, U. S.

Department of State contain no record identifiable with the

male subject's brother, DIMITRI VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

2. Negative U. S. Department of State Check

On Lilia Pardo De Larin

IC DAVID L. DE WEESE caused a search to be made

of the files of the Passport Office, Department of State,

and was advised on March 2, 1964, that no identifiable

record was located concerning LILIA PARDO DE LARIN.

On March 18, 1964, SA HASER was advised that

the files of the Visa

Office, U. S. Department of State,

contain no record identifiable with LILIA PARDO DE LARIN.

On the same date he was also advised that the files of the

Office of Security, U. S. Department of State, contain no

additional information identifiable with her.

3. Negative U. S. Department of State Visa

Office Check on GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

On March 3, 1964, SA HASER was advised that the

files of the Visa Office,

U. S. Department of State, contain

no record identifiable with GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT.

4. Negative U. S. Department of State Security

and Visa Offices Check on JEANNE DE

MOHRENSCHILDT.

On March 20, 1964, SA HASER was advised that the

files of the Offices of Security and Visa, U. S. Department

of State, contain no record identifiable with the female subject.

26

15052

Pr."

---

## Page 28

SECRET

HEO 100-1689

5. Results of CIA check re LILIA PARDO

DE LARIN,

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT, and

DIMITRI VON MOHRENSCHILDT.

On March 25, 1964, SA CHARLES M. BEALL, JR. was

advised that the records of CIA contain no pertinent

identifiable information concerning the above three

individuals.

6. Results of check at Assistant Chief of

Staff Intelligence Office (ACSI),

Pentagon re male subject.

on March 25, 1964, IC NORMAN A. NOLAN was advised

by Mi. RALPH BELFORD, ACSl, G-2, U. S. Army, Pentagon, that

a search of the records of

that office failed to locate a

record identifiable with GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT.

Mrs. JAN MILLER, ACSI, advised IC NOLAN on the

same date that recourse be

made

to G-2 records at Fort

Holabird, Maryland, for possible cross reference or additional

information relating to the male subject.

7. RESULTS OF OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE

RECORD CHECK RE GEORGE DE. MOHRENSCHILDT

As reviewed on March 26, 1964, the file of GEORGE DE

MOHRENSCHILDT maintained by Office of Naval Intelligence,

Washington, D. C., contained no additional pertinent information

concerning him.

- 27* -

206262222965

. •

-

-

---

## Page 29

**

WFO 100-1689

3

RESULTS OF OFFICE OF NAVAL INTELLIGENCE

RECORD CHECK RE GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT •

As reviewed on March 26, 1964, the file of GEORGE DE

MOHRENSCHILDT maintained by Office of Naval Intelligence,

Washington, D. C., contained no additional pertinent information

concerning him.

- 28*-

---

## Page 30

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS. ICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No. 100-1689

WASHINGION IS, D. C. 20535

March 27, 1964

Title

Character

GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILDT;

JEANNE DE MOHRENSCHILDT

INTERNAL SECURITY - R

Reference

Report of Special Agent James F.

Morrissey dated and captioned

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished

reliable information in the past.

HF T-l is a responsible person who has personal

knowledge of the facts presented.

WF T-2 is another government agency which conducts

intelligence or personnel investigations.

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and

Its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agency.

---

