# docid-32293683

## Page 1

!

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10211-10459

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TEETER, FRANKLIN B.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE: 10/16/1959

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

DLH, ASSOC, MED/PERS HIST, RES, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683

Page 1'

---

## Page 2

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55.)

SECRET

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Reporting Office

Office of Origin

NEW YORK

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

LEONID AFANASIEVICH KOVALEV (S

Date

OCT 1 6 1959

Report made by

Investigative Period

7/1/59-9/18/59

FRANKLIN B.

TEETER

CHARACTER OF CASE

INTERNAL SECURITY - RI(B(4)

Typed By:

gim

REFERENCE:

(KU)

Report of SA FRANKLIN B. TEETER dated 7/24/59, at

New York.

*(2)

ADMINISTRATIVE

Apartment 9C at 40 West 84th

contacted the

" York (5]

catt 84th street, New York CIty,

and also the building superintendent at 36LS

obtain a cover apartment from which special

Investigative techniques could beeperated against(S

ipproved

Copies made:

FCPW.

HOW FORW.

BY

-5-59

ROUTIN

7/2gc

Special Agent

in Charge

Bureau (105-64470) (RM) S

- New York (105-2765.

S)

COPIES DESTROYED N)

45* bết 36 1972)

5668-S@/pid 12/119710-30-97

Do not write in spaces below

T205/:64470-30503

EX 109

= • OCT 19 1989

(TFK)

sp8

12346374

Declassify on: ONOR 3/26/85

LASSIFY ON: 25X/,la

SECRET (JFK)

operty of FBI - This xport is loaned io you by th, tal, and noither it not its contents are to be distributed outside the aponeyile, which loaned

# U. s. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1986 O-988319

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683

Page 2

---

## Page 3

[SECRET ](<21)

NY 105-27652 65)

ADMINISTRATIVE (COND)] (V)

conducting background investigation regarding this individual

and plans in future to give consideration to developing

her

as a PSI.

However, attention is called to New York

airtel dated 9/10/59, captioned

PSI - DESECO - R"

, which reflects derogatory information

This information

agent potential](5)

For the information of the Bureau, New York does

not plan to give consideration to developing DENNIS HARBER,

who

also identified as an associate of KOVALEV, as aS

because of his addegedly having undergone psychiatric

treatment in past. However, NY has opened a contact case

on HARBER and will upon the completion of this investigation

will evaluate this (individuals double agent potential](5)

In connection with the party given by KOVALEVS)

in December, 1950, as reported by CSNY 2683S, (NY: T-6)(5)

it is noted that this is undoubtedly the same Christmas

Party about which NY 2601-S and. PSI LAWRENCE LESTEB WHETTEN

have previously furnished information.

that NY 2601-S. is

- urgau's attention is, one ted he the vact

one of the individuals

identified by CSNY 2683+S as being present at the party

Concerning the?

CSN®

other individual: identified by

2683-S, as being present at the December, 1950 party.

JERRY VERNER,

attention is called to the fact that

VERNER

a Is the subject of My closed file 105-2958418

COVER PAGE

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683 Page 3'

OTHER 4

OTHER 4

(a)

OTHER 4

---

## Page 4

i!

EX 205-27652 ](5)

INFORMANTS

Identity

of

Source

NY T-1

Building Superintendent

40 w. 84th Street CS

New York City

(By Request)

NY T-

CSNY 2570376

NY T-3

FOSNY 51015704

NY/ T-Y

SNY (18155J6

NY T-5

160. Claremont

Avenue,

New York City,

Instructor of

Japanese,

Columbia University

(By Request)

NY T-C

CSNY 2683-

(s1

COVER PAGE

_F_

SECRED

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683 Page 4

File Number Where

Located

Instant report - pg. 3

Furnished orally to

SA FRANKLIN B. TEETER

OTHER 1B, 1C

105-27651-174, 185

105-27651-173

105-27651-196

105-27651-172, 189 and

OTHER 4

Instant report - pg. 6-8

Furnished telephonically

to SA JOHN C. HESSIN

(105-27651-188165)

Sli- 1213

---

## Page 5

[SECRET IN

(U)

(N7 105-276527651

[EII. CONTACTS AND ASSOCIATES GU)

(with N I-5J8454)

on July 7, 1959 and August 13, 1959, NY I-5

voluntarily furnished information to the New

• York Office

of the FBI concerning his past association with various

Soviet nationals attached to the UN.

these Soviet

Subsequently on September 17, 1959, the informant

voluntarily furnished the below set forth details concerning

nis original meeting with KOVALEV

and their subsequent

contacts:

Informant first met [OVALEySt a party which he

(NY T-5) gave at his place of

residence some time in June,

However, IVANOV Was

unable to attend the affair and KOVALEV,

came in his place.

NY T-5 related that most of the people present at

this party were instructors and pupils from the Berlitz

"School of Languages, New York City, at which school the

Informant further

related that among the people present at this party.

(S) KOVALEY was friendliest with DENNIS HARBER, 454 West 22nd

Street, Apartment 4W, New York City, who was also a Berlit

instructor.

NY T-5 stated that during the party HARBER

became somewhat intoxicated and began talking about

Communism in Spain. X)

NY T-5 advised that as

at the above referred to party, he and KOVALEY decided to

exchange English and Russian

for approximately four weeks they met on succeeding wednesdays

uss!

-6-

SECRET

Sili9:2P

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683

Page 5'

---

## Page 6

[SECRETIO

(и)

NY 105-27651 65)

VY I-5 related that on July 30,

1259, he and

ANNETTE EPSTEIN visited KOVALEV at the UN. They spent

about 30 minutes together drinking and conversing n the

UN cocktail lounged According to the informant,

eneral social topics. During thi.

netiNE ONE cepted an Invitation from the informant

to attend a party at NY I-5's residence on August 0, 1959, but

actually did not attend this function.

informant on August 9, 1959, apologized for not havingg

attended the party, and gave as his excuse the fact that

his automobile had broken down, and he was unable to make

the trip back to New York City from his summer residence

in Rye, New York.

who attended

ana that they had gone out socially on several

from anotid Informant further advised that he had heard

r instructor at the Berlitz School that HARBER

had undergone psychiatric treatment at a veterans' hospital

in the New York City area.

However, NY T-5 stated that he

thought HARBER presently resides somewhere in the middle

West.

With NY I-6 ($14)

On August 12, 1959, NY T-6 voluntarily furnished

the New York Office of the FBI with the below set forth

details of his association with Soviet Translator LEONID

A. KOVALEV and his wife, RIMMA KOVALEVA: (5)

lemales, who attended one of his classes.

Informant

friendly with KOVALEVA, and as

a result she invited him to

Roved a december a958, ven the husband, BONE A.

-8-

SECRET

810507%

NW 45808 DocId: 32293683 Page 6

---

