# docid-32332694

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/12/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90103-10095

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 165-508-32

Releaaed ardes ere

===rE..

Kerreda

hazaratrazier

=BB2 144

Cate:

22-22-2625

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/30/1964

PAGES:

41

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45836

2

DocId: 32332694

Page 1

---

## Page 2

....

MM 165-28

Period extended to include investigation of another

office, received after submission of previous report.

Leads in this case will hereafter be covered in

Miami file 92-726 captioned "'FRANK LANG 'LEFTY' ROSENTHAL, Aka;

A review of the Federal Income Tax Returns of

during the year

JEK

in 11(a)

In

During

The

Federal Income Tax Return off

The confidential source abroad referred to in this

report is the Legat, Ottawa, Canada.

On 5/25/64, FRANK ROSENTHAL's Identification Record,

FBI #441 756D, was received by the Miami Division. This

record reflects the following arrests during the year 1963:

Contributor

Name

Arrested Charge

of

and

Fingerprints

Number

or

Disposition

Received

Police

Department

Miami Beach

Florida

FRANK

March 6, disorderly

March 12, 1963

LARRY

1963

conduct-loitering dismissed

ROSENTHAL

#A-40471

B

(COVER PAGE)

+65-508-357108-Topaz

• NW 45836

Docid: 32332694

Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 165-28

7/a.

SANKEN IS KnOWn tO SA JAMES I, REARNEY, Forti

an individual friendly withMEYER and JAKI

ANSKY, JIMMIE ALO, JOHN LA ROCCA and JOE

review of the indices of the Washington Field

Office reflect that EX 3-9117 is a published telephone

number listed to Mid-City Delicatessen, 1125 - 14th Street,

Northwest, Washington, D.C.. An examination of the current

Washington, D.C. Telephone Directory reflects that this

number is listed the rein.

• In addition, a listing of the

same number was located in the name of JOHN RUTLEY, 1125 - 14th

Street, Northwest,WashingtonD.C. The above Investigation

by SA PHILIP C. LEWIS.

- INFORMANTS -

On 5/6/64, LA 4468-C-TE reported he had learned

from Los Angeles gambler PERRA

HALL that the national line

and sports gambling was being formulated and distributed by

FRANK "LEFTY" ROSENTHAL of Miami, Florida., Informant stated

that "LEFTY" was originally from Chicago, Illinois, and in

approximately 1961 was convicted for fixing a basketball

game on the East Coast. According to the informant, "LEFTY"

will, from time to time, particularly in football, put out a

bad line on one or two games per week, and then his group will

bet these games heavily around. the country before the lines

are changed.

On 5/21/64, MM 698-C advised that FRANK ROSENTHAL,

bookmaker and gambler, has been hanging around the Golden

Nugget Motel.

G.

(COVER PAGE)

d010333e2

• NW 45836

DocId: 32332694 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 165-28

7/a

c On 5/27/64, MM 950-C identified a photo of

-ANTHONYASPILATRO as an individual she had seen with FRANK

ROSENTHAL at his apartment and in his automobile.

On 5/28/64, MM 509-C-TE advised ROSENTHAL is

hanging around with the Chicago crowd at the Golden Nugget

Motel, and no Lonnebe requents the Miami Beach hangouts.

He understands IRVING ZION had planned to visit ROSENTHAL

at the Golden Nugget Motel if he felt up to it, as ROSENTHAL

is about the only person presently available who will play

cards with LION, for big stakes.Ala

JEK Act 6 (4)

On 6/2/64, PCI|

related that on

Monday, 6/1/64, FRANK ROSENTHAL vacated his apartment.

He stated that

although the specific address of ROSENTHAL'S

new residence is unknown

to him, he understood it was in the

vicinity of the San Souci Apartments.

On 6/4/64; MM 950-C advised that FRANK ROSENTHAL'S

mother-in-law, SYLVEy FEINER, is very upset over hearing the

a known prostitute, is marrying an

individual by the name of CuDaHY, who is connected with a

prosperous meat packing business.

The informant stated

that FEINER is extremely jealous of any individual who

marries money. She said that FEINER will date anybody, and

had a very torrid love affair with a Miami Beach bartender

by the name of JOHNNY ANGEL last year. She said that SYLVIA's

husband is unaware of

her escapades.

on 6/5/64, MM917-C-TE advised that MARTY KANE, a

close friend of FRANK ROSENTHAL, has been spending some time

(COVER PAGE)

d0i03-13082

-

* NW 45836

DocId: 32332694 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 165-28

at the Miami Beach Dog Kennel Club and betting substantially

on the dogs.

On 6/22/64, MM 950-C advised she had received

information that ROBERTA or FRANK ROSENTHAL had a bank account

at the City National Bank of Miami Beach, which she understood

was located somewhere near Collins Avenue on 71st Street,

Informant stated she felt that SOL, the former

doorman, IDA, the bookkeeper, and BOB/BURNSTEIN, the former

night superintendent, all of

the Beaux! Gardens Apartments,

North Bay Village, were paid by FRANK ROSENTHAL to keep

otticials checked

Bpt st 119

Informant stated that in the last

ten days, she

has seen FRANK ROSENTHAL at the Harbor Towers Apartments on

several occasions.

She said it is the word around North

Bay Village that

this new apartment is catering to gamblers,

prostitutes and other unsavory individuals.

On 6/22/64, PCI|

related that last week

an expert from the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph

Company, Miami, made an extensive survey of the telephone wiring

system which hadbeen used by FRANK ROSENTHAL in his now vacant;

apartment, 218, at the Beaux Gardens Apartments, 8000 West

Drive, North Bay Village, Florida.

This survey reflected there had been in use a

warning device system between ROSENTHAL's apartment,

apartment #122, which was the former qffice of the Beaux

Gardens Apartments and was run by SAMALE BRAN,,

„the bookeeper'

office, which is occupied by IDA, and apartment #119, which

was the residence of the former night superintendent, BOB

S BERNSTEIN.

I.

(COVËR PAGE)

JEK Act 6 (4)

d9103-5901a2

NW 45836 DooId: 32332694 Page 5

---

## Page 6

MM 165-28

The survey also reflected ROSENTHAL had a PBX

set up in his closet and a one-way mirror located in his

living room. Several holes were also observed in the

ceiling of the apartment, which led this expert to believe

that line had been dropped from apartment #318 for the

use of ROSENTHAL.

Informant stated apartment #318 is

adanty occupled by setera, is 2 a ates Village

Another observation made by the telephone expert

was that due to the extra wiring which they found in the

frame room at the Beaux Gardens Apartments (which is

located across the hall from ROSENTHAL's former apartment),

ROSENTHAL, could have had access to any telephone line at

the Beaux Gardens Apartments.

Informant said that on Sunday, 6/21/64, a middle-aged,

rather husky Negro male was stopped in the 8000 building of the

Beaux Gardens Apartments after he had knocked on the door at

apartment #218, which is now vacant (formerly occuped by

ROSENTHAL). This individual told the informant that he wanted

to see CHARLIE/WHITE (a former occupant of an apartment at the

Beaux Gardens Apartments). This individual was later identified

by the North Bay Village Police, according to the informant,

as JOHNNIE. ROBERTS,, who resides at 780 Northwest 47th

Street. Miami. This Negro male was observed driving ar 1951

DeSoto, 1964 Florida license IW-176899.

he had

seen this individual at ROSENTHAL's apartment

before, but

took it for granted that he was a porter of

some sort.

4/2,

J.

(COVER PAGE)

d903578%

iNW 45836 DocId: 32332694 Page 6

---

## Page 7

MM 165-28

On 6/30/64, NF 193-PC stated that Norfolk telephone

587-8716 is the telephone number of JOE AMDURSKY,, who

operates

sports, Inc.

The informant stated that JOE AMDURSKY

has received some calls from a bookie in Miami, who was

apparently selling ôr providing a baseball' line. According

to the informant, this individual would call AMDURSKY for

the purpose of obtaining AMDURSKY's line, and then they

would compare the odds. The informant stated that these calls

have been infrequent, and that AMDURSKY- has not encouraged

this exchange of information.

The informant stated that although

AMDURSKY

he could dId not know this individual, as FRANK ROSENTHAL,

contact him for up-to-date scores by calling Miami

telephone PL 4-0637.

A review of the indices of the Washington Field

Office reflected that EX 3-9117 is a published telephone

number listed to Mid-City Delicatessen, 1125 - 14th Street,

Northwest, Washington, D. C. An examination of the current

Washington, D. C. Telephone Directory reflects this number

is listed therein. In addition, a listing of the same

number was located in the name of JOHN RUTLEY, 1125 - 14th

Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C.

Above investigation by

SA PHILIP C. LEWIS.

JEK Act 6 (4)

On 7/8/64, PCI

advised that on 7/7/64

a white Buick "Riviera"

, bearing 1964 Illinois license

HC 1841, was seen at the residence of FRANK ROSENTHAL, 2123.

Northeast 122nd Street, Miami. Informant stated that shortly

thereafter, ROSENTHAL left with an individual driving this

car. She described him asia white male, 5'10" to 6' tall,

170 to 180 pounds, age - early 30's.

K.

(COVER PAGE)

: NW 45836 DocId: 32332694 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MM 165-28

On 7/17/64, MM 950-C advised that she understands

FRANK and ROBERTA ROSENTHAL are having domestic difficulties,

and that she is spending a good deal of time with a family

in the Southwest Section of town, who own a German Shepherd

dog.

Informant also reflected that ROY and SYLVIA FEINER

are now residing several doors from the apartment of ERANK

and ROBERTA ROSENTHAL at 2147 Northeast 122nd Street.

17.000.

L.*

(COVER PAGE)

d0103-19002

• NW 45836

DocId: 32332694

Page 8

---

