# docid-32282047

## Page 1

Date: 10/05/93

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION' FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10002-10207

RECORDS SERIES :

MEMORANDUM

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Released under

F.

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM :

TO :

TITLE :

PLANS OF CUBAN EXILES TO ASSASSINATE SEL. CUBAN LEADERS

DATE: 07/16/64

PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS :

CUBA

ASSASSINATION

MAFIA

Notel. Case#:NU

10-23-2017

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : S

RESTRICTIONS : REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/30/93

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 333

Folder 2

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54653

DocId: 32282047

Page 1

---

## Page 2

MALASSIE DATE GRANDD

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED B

3

12/519

SECRET

1 - Belmont

1 - Evans

The

Attorney General

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION"ly 1G, 1964

Unauthorized Disclosure

1 - Rosen

Director, FBI

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

1 - Deboach

1 - Mohr

PLANS OF

CUBAN EXILES TO ASSASSINATE ALL INFORMATION

Sullivan

GINTAwaRna11

12-18-93

RDD/KSL

SELECTID CUBAN COVENIENT. LEADERS

INTERIA SECUBITY • CUSA

Пік

OTHERKISE

Reference is made to previous information concerning

the alleged existence of plans involving organized crine elements

in the ti, f. end Cuban exiles to assassinato fidol Castro, Peo

Minister of Cuba, and other Cuban leaders.

-

Bacardi Bum Company,

On July 13, 1964, Jose "Pepin" Bosch, Pres dent a

Hiami,

Florida, advised that he is

frequently asked for contributions for anti-Castro activales e

Approximately two to three nonths ago two cubans, identitius

unknown,

asked hin if he was interested in investing $150,040.

The Cubans stated that the "Haîia" vas villing to bet that o

amount that Castro yould ve killed within 20 days of the placing

o: the bet.

le toid the cubans he would have to consider the

matter. Bosch explained that he would have no part in murder

but since.heshadralways. been in close contact with Central

MAILED 2

11 46-90

Intolia conco Agency (ChA) he advised CIA which advised him 1t(

COMM-FBI

Losch was unable to recall for certain

if he was ever recontacted by the two Cubans but indicated it

was possible that he had been.

He stated he would not recognize

their photographs and that ne

Identities.

had no way of determining their

Bosch stated he did not know anyone in the

shipping

Industry connacted with the hoodlum elenent or with anyone in

st. Louig. Bosch indicated he did not contribute money or

enter into any contract to do so in connection with anys

assassination plan.

Rosch stated he did not meet with

Eliseo Gonez Fernandez,

a Cuban exile, in April, 19G4,

and

did not agree to advance $100,000 for the assassination plan

osch stated he did not commit linsell to furnisa $50,900

BEC 14/05-L0

105-131629

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

EVIN: ge1 qu

Callahan

(14)

Conrad

DeLoach.

63 JUL 20 1962)

llivan .

avel

Trotter

Tale. Room -

Holmes -

Gandy -

:ST-109

85 JUL 17.1954

REVIEWED BY FBI/JFK TASK FORCE

ON

15l9u00

SEE NOTE PAGE

THO

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE I PARTI

1001a5511

ion

MATE ROOM TELETYPE UNIT

OTAL DENIAL

TT?!

IB

NW 54653

DooId: 32282047

Page 2

---

## Page 3

!

SECRET

The Attorney General

Bosch denied stating that he believed Castro should be eliminated and

that Castro's elinination was well worth $150,000.

Bosch is acquainted with Teorilo Babun Selman, another Cuban

exile, but he does not Isnow Babun's associates, Elisco Gomez Fernandez

and Oscar Fernandez Veiga.

Babun was not one of the two Cubans who

called on him regarding the plan and Bosch cannot recall for certain

If he montioned this plan to Babun.

Bosch is acquainted with Julio Lobo,

still another Cuban exile, but ho did not and would rot ask Lobo for

anything.

not horse ant to hat no.

Eosch indicated he thoroughly detests Lobo and would not

enter anything of which lobo is a part. Bosch further stated he did

not know Byron Caneron, a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, businessman.

Herbert I. Jenne, a Fort Lauderdale businessman and partner

• en route to Miami from Mexico aboard a

any plot or plan to assassinate Castro.

Ho stated that lie knew of no

connuction betroen Canaron and any hoodlum clanent and that he had no

information that Cameron was involved in anti Castro activitles.

We are conducing additional investigation in this matter

and pertinent results will be made available to you.

--

I - The Deputy Attorney General

1 - Mr. J. Walter Yeagley

Assistant Attorney General

1 - Mr. Herbert J. Miller, Jr.

Assistant Attorney General

NOTE:

Investigation being conducted at request of Attorney

General. Classified "Secrot" since it refors to information so

classified by CIA.

SECRET

- 2 .

Rib:

MAY TO LUIS

DOJ

NN 54653 DocId: 32282047

Page 3

---

