# docid-32330237

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90089-10272

' RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-344127-NR

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54460 Date:

40-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DONAHOE

BELMONT

DATE: 04/26/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330237

Page 1

---

## Page 2

1

Ao I. Belmont

Si. B. Honchoe

2

•Mro Belmont

- Air, Donahoe

Mr. Condon

• Mr. Rogers

on MT.

Rosen

_Mr. Nasce

April 26, 2959

CUBAN REJAZZAZION AGAINST BAZZSTA

ADEURENES IN TED UNILED STATUS

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On 4/20/59 Richard Jaife, Miami real estate operator associated

with Rolando Mosferrer in ant.- castro propaganda; advised Mint Office

that Walter Alfred Youngblood offered to sell intelligence data concerni

Castro regime for $10, 000. Youngblood stated he went to Havard, Cube,

4/3/59 with I C. Grizale, a pilots John Lovell, Miant Springe police

officers and another police offteer, where they conferred with three

Gubans who proposed they kidnap Mosferrer and return him to Cuba.

of these Cubans was chief of police and another Castro's chief secretary

Youngblood reportedly declined proposition but others had second meeting

Altami noted Youngblood appears to be con mon and soldier of

fortune.

Bufiles indicate loungblood a con man who has been involved

efforts to obtain money from varlous induiduals on basie of forming

expeditions to recover money from plane alleged to have crashed in

Mexican jungles.

Youngblood's identification record indleates orrests

for assault and battery in 1955 and for reckless driving in 1957, both

in Nevadas and for swindle in Cuba in 1958.

He have no identifiable

information concerning Grizzles

Rolando Masferter Is former Cuban senator and prominent

Batiste

supporter uno fled Cubo Jollowing Batista's dounfoll 1/1/5%

presently in illoni on parole from Immigration and Naturalization Service

and thoroughly detested by Castro Government beccuse of his ruthlessness

and support of Batiste. He is subject of pending investigation in view

oj. allegationa he is involved in pro-Batista and anti-Castro activities

in Mion to

On 4/24/59 Dade County (Miami) cuthorities learned several

unidentifled persons falsely representing themselves as Immigration and

Naturalization service agents would actempo to take Mosferrer that

evening.

Into did noù materialize.

On 4/25/59 Miami Police Department

advised John Lovell and Frank Glidwell, liami Springs police officers,

upon interulew, admitted trips to Havana with Youngblood and Grizzle.

T'olson

Belmont

De Loach

MeGuiz 0575512

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen®

to 200-344127 (Rolando Hasferrer)

w.c. strids gas

Tele. Room

Holloman

Gandy.

MAIL ROOM E

MAY 5 1959

TELETYPE UNIT

100-344127

(SPEACE - 516199- JER

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE

8118181 BYSPEGeLDMS

ORIGINAL COPY

74 54460

DocId: 32330237

Page 2

---

