# docid-32424976

## Page 1

Date

07/14/98

Lage : 1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: JCS

RECORD NUMBER

: 202-10001-10245

RECORDS SERIES

: JEK LIBRARY SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOC 246

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54214 Date:

09-13-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR :

JCS

FROM

TO

TITLE :

DATE: 11/17/62

PAGES : 4

SUBJECTS : CUBA OPERATIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 1C

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/09/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

EXEMPT PER E.O. 13526

SEC 3.3(b) SAXS

MAR

2016

DATE EXEMPTED:

JS RE-REVIEW DATE: 31DEC 2037

CRAY TO PEELICASE AS REACTED

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 54214

Doc1d:32424976 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MESSAGENE STOR

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE C TOP

in an excellent condition world-wide to counter, any

Soviet military response to such action.

Our status of

readiness includes:

"a. SAC Is maintaining 1/8 airborne alert and

has implemented its force dispersal plan.

An increased

SIOP generation rate-

,456 aircraft and 355 missiles,

including 80 POLARIS missiles--1s being maintainen

"3. Continental Air Defense

_Command interceptor

forces have occupied their wartime dispersal bases and

are partially deployed at Increased alert (about 1/3).

Special defensive measures have been taken to protect

the Southeast, with particular attention to Florida.

"c. Air forces involved in CINCLANT OPIAN

312-62 In daylight hours can respond for selective

attack in graduated increments from two to twelve hours,

according to the application of force desired

"à. Amphibious and assault forces are at a

high state of readiness, providing a seven-day reaction

capability for CINCLANT OPIAN 316-62 following

the air

strike (CINCIANT OPIAN 312-62), with accelerated intro-

duction of follow-on forces.

"e. All naval units are in a high state of

[A]

readiness.

"2. In response to your request, we have studied

the need for augmentation of forces for CINCLANT OPLAN

2

JCS 7441

SCO FORM

I JUNSY

35-4

HH 54214

*DoCId: 32424976 Page 2

PAGE NR:

REPRODUCTION

PROHIBITED

---

