# docid-32302972

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10282-10484

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82933-1ST NR 4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/28/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45808 DocId: 32302972

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

10-27-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5468560/14

DECLASSIFY ON-25X.

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINEN

HEREIN IS UAGLASSIZIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

SECRET

DIRECTOR, FBI (205-86307)

July 28, 1960

SAC, NEW YORK (105-39681)

AKERICO JOSEPH SALIBE

IS - R

#2M,320

Classified py au

SPUBJA/GCL

Declassif/en: bane 3/27/35

ры лееать (0 190-21357-4

ReBulet dated 6-28-60.

On 7-21-60, subjeet was Interviewed

a

rosidence

hy SAD

interview

as

condueted under the pretext that DEANTs HARBAR

(DENNIS.

IS-R; NY 205-37990) subject's former

roommate,

contacted

the mar office at Kanses City, Uo.,

etating that

had boon kidnapped by FIDEL, CASTROlo egents but had escaped

and that the Sovieto were also "after" him

The suoject was

asked about HARBER's possible relation to Cuba and the Soviets 5)

Subject tated

i that MARBER had been his rocmmate but

that he was

"nutty"

and had been confined in the mental warde

numerous Veterane Admintetration hospitals.

Subject said that HARBER taught English at the Berl1tz

school of languages, Rockeseller Center, WiC.

and while there

- into contact with three or feur Sovleta. He said that he S

met LEONID KOVALEV once at Beriste ten he went there to meet

HARDUR, and that

subsequently he saw korate again at a partys

giver by ANNEITE EPSTEIN,

in 1958; he supplied EPSTEIN's

residence then as

Weat 79th St., NVC. He said that he

accompanded HARBER to this party and that the queste were all

Boritte

teachere or students; he stated that EPSTEIN was a

Ber116z

teacher, an acquaintance of HARBER' D

party

had introduced him to one

at

Berlitz,

_could not recall wabject said that

he had

other Sovieto and Chao his association/

was limited to

above. (p)

Bureau

(205-86307) (1)

- 05-64470) (KOVALEY

3- New York:

(105-39681)

(105-27652) (KOVALEV)

105-82933

NOT RECORDED

6C AUG

$ 1960

05-37000) HARBEE

RWH: s28

DAUG 8 1960

5-2344

Declassify of DADE SAL

ORIGINAL, FILED IN

SECRET

NW

45808

DocId: 32302972

Page

2

---

## Page 3

OTHER 1B, 1C

SECRET:

NY 105-39682

Subject stated that HARBER's association with the

(S. Movietalia purelate and that he does not believe an

Inew ent Boviets apart from othose he taught at Berlita.

Subject related that HARBER had been in Havana, Cuba,

for two days in 1956, when subject accompanied him to Colombia

where HARBER was employed to teach English to a wealthy person.

They stopped

in Havana on the way in erder that subject could

visit aome of his relatives, and HARBER, who does not speak

Spaniah, was with subject constantly, Subject atated that, to

knowledge, CASTRO was unionown at that time and that ho

and HARBER spent their time there visiting nubject's rellativea

Subject advised that he had a security clearance in

connection with his employment by Lockheed,

country

"evil much, and, that if he had believed that KOVALEVilS

purpose in his association with HARBER or himsel

he would have immediately called the FBI, He said that HARBER

Inew many forelen nationale and that he therefore thought

nothing of

meeting(& Soviet,mong HARBER's acquaintances. (g)

As w11l be noted, ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN (former Fs1).

the source.of

this case, advised that subject told her that he

took KOVALEV;

YURTY I. MISHUKOY and VADIM (INU) ,

(probably

VADI KIRILYUK)A to a party elven by LIBBY HOLMAN RUYNOLDS 11 (

the summer of 1958. These gatherings were said to continue

into the summer of 3959. In addition, subject told both BrSTBIN

(former PSI), that KOVALEV had (S)

visited the apartment he and HARBER shared, and subject was

present et several partted with CoVAlv the last known contaoTHER, 18,10,4

caring place in April, 1060, at a party given by

At this

party, subject greeted KOVAIEV warmly and asked how "GEORCE"

reforming to MIsHukoves)

(5)

only chae he encountered KOVAIEV twice and was introduced to

another Soviet: whose name he could not recall. He assured

interviewing agents

of his cooperation and stated that he

would be glad to be of further help if needed. f)

-2 -

SECRET

535-10191

NW 45808 DocId: 32302972

Page 3

---

## Page 4

SECRETI

099038

NY • 105-39681

The interviewing agents observed none of the

outward characteristios assoczated with honosexuals in

subjectis appoarance, manner or speech.

It 10 proposed that subjeet be re interviewed. SALEBR

will be advised that we have learned that he

soclally with/ KOVALEV,

MISHUKOV, KINTEYUK and REYNOLDS A It 10 5

felt that after reflecting on themat interview and his

actavities with the Soviets, subject will be more cooperative.S

It is also felt That the interments (EPSTEM and

not be jeopardised since, as far as

cooper arE OTHER A

the subjeet ia concerned

these will be ample time

in which the Bureau could learn of

more

of his netivities.

Subject would again be interfered by two agente and

the intervien would take place in a Bureau car

Should he

he cooperative, no guidence u122 be given to him without

Bursau authority.

JACI

subject will be re-interviewed as outlined

above

8/8/60.

* 3•

XP9032

SECRET

585-102871

NW 45808 DocId: 32302972 Page 4

---

