# docid-32315541

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21UT Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10342-10259

RECORD SERIES: DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-228-828

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MONTEFIORE

TO : DE

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/22/1963

3

ANTHONY GIACALONE (ELSUR)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32315541

Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

i.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

: SAC, DETROIT (92-876)

DATE:

April 224: 1963

FROM :

SA JOSEPH W. MONTEFIORE

SUBJECT: CRIME CONDITIONS IN MICHIGAN

DE 370-C advised SA PALMER M. WEE On 3/3/63, that

TONY GIACALONE and TONY CIMINI,

aka.

• just recently made a trip to Florida

Tony

• Long, had

to visit the ailing

JOE BOMARITO, who is suffering from Parkinson's Disease,

Diabetes, and is also going blind. Source stated that he

does not expect that "Scarface" will return to Detroit

again until he comes

back "in a box".

DE 370-C also advised that PETE LICAVOLI has

attempted to persuade him

to make a trip to Miami to

visit "Scarface" because of their many years of

close

friendship.

DE 370-C also advised that ANGELO "BARRELS"

LOMBARDI has been doing some numbers hustling in Pontiac,

Michigan, and he definitely stated that LOMARDI iS not

representing the Sicilians there, but is operating on

his own.

He stated that LowsArdI is not trusted and the only

reason he has not been liquidated, is because of consideration

for his father-in-law, BENNY BOMMARITO. DE 370-C further

advised that PHIL GUASTELLA and PETE GUASTELLA may be engaged

in some small numbers operation in Macomb County but he has

no knowledge of this. He further stated that the numbers

racketeering does not flourish in Macomb County as it

does in wayne and Oakland Counties.

He stated that LES

ALASTADI, MAConb County Sheriff, and FRANK IRONS Of oakland

County,

are considered absolutely incorruptible.

volunteered that some Oakland County official in south Oakland

County can be corrupted.

92-228 (TONY GIACALONE - SA LUNT)

1 = 92560 (TONY CIMINI • SA CHURCHILL)

1 = 92-217 (PETE LICAVOLI - SA MONTEFIORE)

- 92-433 (JOHN WHITE - SA CONKLIN)

• 92-216 (BILL BUFALINO • SA MOORE)

92:228-828

• 162-19

• = 92-215

NUMBERS CONTROL FILE CAMAROYA

SEARCHED.

(JOE "SCARFACE" BOMMARITO)

1. 92-955 (PHIL CUASTELLA - SA BRINK)

1 = 122-203 (NASHVILLE TRIAL - SA BOLAND):

A??: 1953

1 - 72-80 (LARRY CAMPBELL - SA BOLAND)

JWM : JAV

(11)

DocId:32315541

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE.: 11-14-2017

DE 92-876

DE 370-C further advised that "OKIE" MEROLLIS, aka.

"The Court Jester" was recently interviewed by Special

Agents in Detroit, who were seeking information about

"SCARFACE" JOE BOMMARITO.

Informant stated that MEROLLIS

has recently been used as a sort of errand boy,

who has

paid bills for BOMMARITO in the Detroit area and he is a

Hebrew, who formerly was a bookmaker,.

Informant stated

that MEROLLIS has been a close friend of BOMMARITO, but

has not been a figure of any importance in racket activity.

DE 370-c further advised that with regard to JoHN

WHITE's trip to Nashville, Tennessee, to testify before

the Federal Grand Jury investigating the recent HOFFA

trial, the judge supposedly told WHITE that he did not

know why the Government had subpoenaed him. According to

WHITE, he was before the Grand Jury for only a few minutes.

DE 370-C also stated that the Government apparently

had hoped to link WHITE with LARRY CAMPBELL of the Teamsters,

but their apparently was no connection and Informant

is certain JOHN WHITE never had any close personal contact

with JIMMY HOFFA. Informant stated that it is his opinion

that the individual who accompanied WHITE on his trip to

Cincinnati, Louisville, and Nashville, prior to the HOFFA

trial, was

a Negro, who the Informant

knows only as

"Buckwheat"

DE 370-C said the winning number bas been determined

in the recent past by race results at New Orleans. It

will be determined during the next weeks by race results

at Hot Springs. He said Hialeah is not being used

any more because of the difficulty of getting race

results out of the track as soon as the race is run.

DE 370-C said the policing at Hialeah is too efficient

so those persons who flash race results to confederates

outside the track have not been successful at the Florida

track.

He added that an effort is made so that the

numbers people throughout the midwest all use the

same track at the same time. Thus the winning number in

Ohio or Indiana will be the same as the winning number in

Michigan.

DE 370-C again mentioned that he has heard more

conversation regarding BILL BUFALINO being groomed

to eventually take over the Teamsters Union.

He said

the conversation has been to the effect that BUFALINO

is "clean,", 1.e., he has to crimial record and hew

• 2=

DocId:32315541

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotej

DATE: 11-14-2017

DE 92-876

is a lawyer.

Every effort will be made

so as not to

ever contaminate him by permitting anyone to show

connection between him and any racket activity

DE 370-C

is of

the opinion that sicilians in other cities

will try

to extend and consolidate their holds on the locäl unions

so that if HoffA should be convicted or for some other

head ot the

reason he cannot remain as head of the Teamsters the

Sicilians will be in a position to take over.

DE 370-C

said he has no specific information,

only generad

conversation. He did say that he could furmish some information

regarding the history of HOFFA's association with the

Sicilian hoodlums

s and how HOFFA used them when he was

first coming to

proninence in the union. He said that

because the writer would be duty bound to report

information, he does not dare to relate the details.

DE 370-C added that he would relate the details to the writer

in confidence if he was no longer employed by the FBI, but

wis not turnish the intormation wille he is so employed.

An effort was made to get DE 370-C to discuss this matter

further, but he refused.

3

DocId:32315541

Page 4

---

