# docid-32289181

## Page 1

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (47 U5C 2107 hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10200-10457

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-300

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/18/1963

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

BIANCO, NICHOLAS, REL, RES, WHEREABOUTS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32289181

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (141 USC 2107 Motel.

DATE

11-14-2017

DECODED

КОРУ

Co baner

Susader

Rosene

• AIRGRAM

CABLEGRAM

URGENT

6-18-63

TO DIRECTOR -7- AND SAC BOSTON

FROM SAC NEW YORK

190130

RADIO

10:40 PM

XX TELETYPE

Trotter

Hottes

Candy

DE

REC

CAUSA NOSTRA, AR, CONSPIRACY.

REBOSRAD JUNE 12 LAST AND NY TEL JUNE 18.

UNSUB NICKY OR MICKY IN REBOS COMMUNICATION PROBABLY NICHOLAS

BIANCO, NYCPD B 482071, WHO IS FROM PROVIDENCE AREA. HAS BROTHER

FRANK AND CHARLIE, BOTH BELIEVED TO BE RESIDING IN PROVIDENCE.

Ke Klie

HIGHLY-CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE KNOWN TO NYCPD INDICATES A CONTACT ABOUT

EASTER 1963 BY LARRY GALLO TO NICK BIANCO IN PROVIDENCE. LARRY GALLO

REQUESTED BIANCO TO CONTACT PATRIARCA FOR ASSISTANCE HIS BEHALF.

NY 3104-C ADVISED RECENT PAST THAT LARRY GALLO DESIRES TO WHIT"

FRANK BARRANCA, AKA FRANK MARTIN OVER CONFLICT IN NUMBERS OPERATION.

BARRANCA ALLEGEDLY WITH GAMBINO FAMILY.

CHARLIE REFERRED TO REBOS COMMUNICATION COULD PROBABLY BE

CHARLES LO CICERO, A FORMER ACTING CONSULIERI IN THE MAGLIOCCO

(PROFACI) FAMILY, WHO HAS BEEN ATTEMPTING TO NEGOTIATE PEACE FOR

PAST TWO YEARS BETWEEN GALLO FACTION AND MAGLIOCCO FAMILY. BUREAU

AND BOSTON TO BE IMMEDIATELY APPRISED OF ANY PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS.

RECEIVED:

10:52 PM

92-6054-300

D2 JUN 21 1983

68J

1192

271963

Il the inelligence contained in the aboue massage is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

parophrased in order lo protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32289181 Page 2

---

