# docid-32321908

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10378-10066

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-3394

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO : TP

TITLE:

DATE: 04/01/1997

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: -3

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/04/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32321908

116

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

...

(12/31/1995)

315

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedence: DEADLINE 05/01/1997

Date:

04/01/1997

To:

Tampa

Miami

New York

Mexico City

• Ottawa Legat

Paris Legat

Bern Legat

Attn:

Earth Hart Bell

Attn: Deborah Robertson

Attn:

Eileen Rawlinson

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

JFK Task Force,

Rm. 6362

Contact: Brian

J. Fields, Ext.

9535

Approved By: Keeley Carol Lollin

Drafted By: Fields Brian J

Case ID #: 62-HQ-1029205 (Pending)

Title: John F. Kennedy Records Collection Act

of 1992 (the Act)

Synopsis:

The Act established the Assassination Records Review

Board (ARRB) to oversee the governments' production and

compliance with the Act.

The ARRB reviews the proposed

postponements in documents sent by each agency to the National

Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and decides what

postponements the Act allows or opens the document in full. The

ARRB's responsibilities include having agencies search other

subjects and areas to find additional material not already

identified as assassination records.

The establishment of the

ARRB by the Act also limited the time for their duties to be

accomplished.

The ARRB must complete their tasks by September

1997.

With

this deadline in mind, the ARRB sent a letter

requesting additional information.

Enclosures: ARRB letter requesting material

Details:

On March 10, 1997, the ARRB sent a letter to the FBI

setting forth a formal request to receive and review additional

The ARRB's goal is to research every possible subject

that may have a bearing on assassination theories and to assure

. Congress and the American public that all was done to accomplish

PARI

at ront on at the SEE Rau 029205-3394

Requested offices

onduct a search

If offices are aware of any administrative records

they may have maintained outside the normal index system, they

should include those areas in the search.

If any documents

related to the matters are found, please forward the documents to

the JFK Task Force.

WoRkpapERs

detached

DocId: 32321908 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

To: Tampa

From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 04/01/1997

Pursuant to the Act, any material categorized as an

assassination record must be sent to the NARA in its original

The Act established the process of handling the documents

and the FBI must follow the Act.

If offices believe they need a

• copy, they should copy the document or material before sending to

the JFK Task Force.

Please conduct a search for files on the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee (FPCC)

and forward. all files to FBIHQ, JFK Task

Force, Attention: Brian Fields, Room 6362.

If you have any questions, please call Brian J. Fields

at (202) 324-9535.

2

DocId: 32321908

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

TO: Tampa From:

Office of Public and Congressional Affairs

Re: 62-HQ-1029205, 04/01/1997

LEAD (s) :

Set Lead 1:

TAMPA

AT TAMPA

Conduct a search of your office for the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee files.

Forward the material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force,

Attention Brian J. Fields, Room

6362. The results should be received at FBIHQ no later than

C.0.B. 05/01/97.

Set Lead 2:

' ALL RECEIVING FIELD OFFICE

AT MIAMI, NEW YORK

Conduct a search of your office for the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee files.

Forward the material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention Brian J. Fields,

Room

6362.. The results should be received at FBIHe no later than

C.0.B 05/01/97.

Set Lead 3:

ALL RECEIVING LEGATS

AT MEXICO, BERN, PARIS, OTTAWA

Conduct a search of your office for the Fair Play for

Cuba Committee files.

Forward the material related to this

request to FBIHQ, JFK Task Force, Attention Brian J. Fields, Room

6362.

The results should be received at FBIHQ no later than

C.0.B 05/01/97.

- Carol L. Keeley, Room 6362

- LuAnn Wilkins, Room 6362

- Brian J. Fields, Room

6362

3

DooId:32321908 Page 4

---

