# docid-32309845

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/3/2015

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10111

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1499-115

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case# :NT 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

TO:

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/15/1963

2

FS, ASSOC, POLIT, ACA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 54462

DocId: 32309845

Page 1

---

## Page 2

USCS

5010-108

ANTAN IPEZ EDITION

SSA SEN. REG. NO. 27

SUNITED STATES

SVERNMENT

Memorandum CONFIDENTIALI

16-11-94

TO

08 MACIKSE

classhited

DIRECTOR, FB1 (2-7

Declassify oma

REVIEWED BY FS/JFK TASK FORGE

ON

11-23-51 dak

- RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CLASSIFIEO TAND

Ngwat 15, 1963

EXTENDED RY

SAR TEMPO 23034:

FROM

SAC, MIAMI (2-192) (C)

REASON F

FCIM, I1,

I. a

588

DATE OF REVIE

FOR

SUBJECT:

FRANK ANTHONY

STURGIS, aka ECLASSIFICATION

Frank Fiorini

copion wade

STATE DERT. INFO (P3,

LINES &-ENO) DECLASSIED

PER LTR, DD. 3/26/841

SP6BSA/6641-5211,326-

1121900)

IS-CUBA

6198

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Rat

(00: Miami)

for review ay FBIHO by

Re Bulet dated 5/16/63.

(See Bufile #62-117290)

Reference 1s also made to Bureau letter to CIA date

3/20/63, pointing out that in view of the interest of customs

In the activities of subject and his associates, the FBI was

conducting no investigation at that time.

CIA

DECLASSIRCATCN AND/OR,

RELEASE O% CIA INFORMATI

Since that date, Information has been received from

varius sources reflecting certain activities on the part of

VECLASSIFIED I

sHoject. As the Bureau is aware, subject, his friend wILLIAM

JOHNSON, and another individual,

JOSE MARIA GONZALEZ/HERNANDE

Iwere picked up on Norman Key. Bahamas,

on 3/30/63, at which

¡time they possessed radio tools, crystals, 'a camera, and a

Whigh powered radio receiver, among other things.

They were

returned to the united

States that same date.

This coincided

a with the alleged presence of United States Senator GEORGE

SMATHERS on Norman Key.

That same date the coordinator of

ATION CONTI

Cuban Affairs of the State Department at Miami received a tele

UNCLASSIFIED

phone call from his Washington headquarters and was instructed

WHERE SHOWN

to treat information concerning Norman Key and Senator SMATHER

as confidential to avoid embarrassment concerning

this matter

asked the FBI to treat it in this fashion.

4)

Pertinent information concerning subject has been

ported

in communications for dissemination under the caption

PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA, Bufile 105-72630,

OuS

EVIEWED BY EBWJFK TASK FORC

6

smi file 105-1598.

His activities are covered through

"MM 635-S, who has been furnishing pertinent information

regarding DIAZ LANZ as well as subject.

12/18/90 mj/do

A review of various communications

emanating from

RELEASE IN FULL

CIA generally discloses that information has been obtained

from subject through

"a trained American observer."

u)

on

845163,

WALLACE SHANLEY,

U.S. Customs, Miami,

to SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, Jr.

11J

03|1211

i: 773714188985

SEC

1652-5708

eau

(RM)

PAG

(3)

CO

SEX

12 AUG 19 1963

HH

54462

ДосТА: 32309845

Page 2

---

