# docid-32325918

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90040-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2781-1392

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 01/22/1971

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

MACHO GENER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/24/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32325918

Page 1

---

## Page 2

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• MM 92-88

ARTHUR CUMMINGHAM, Miami tax attorney who

has been representing SANTO TRAFFICANTE in the Olc

Tampa IRS case, has messed up the case badly and since

the death of Tampa accountant DAVID SCHWARTZ,

the

case is in even worse condition than before.

Attorney PAUL LOUIS who has been representing

EVARISTO GARCIA SARMIENTO says that he will no longer

handle them after the current Federal case in Miami.

He has also moved out of the libel case against Time

InC., fOr FRANK RAGANO who is now being represented

by MELVIN BELLI.

EUGENE/ KLIGMAN, former accountant for OAKLEY

SMITH at the Palm' Springs Hospital in Hialeah,

specializing in abortions.

September 22, 1970, MM 635-S who has

knowledge

of activities of

revolutionaries in

the Miami area as well as some knowledge of criminal

activities of Cuban personalities in this area, advised

as follows:

At approximately 10:25 AM, September 22,

1970, he observed three individuals

emerging from

Howard JOhnson's Motel and Restaurant facilities

located at Biscayne Boulevard and l1th Street, Miami,

Florida. They departed

on the west side of the building

and entered the sheltered garage area. He recognized

one of these individuals as a Cuban who had been an

official' in the Cuban Government during the regime of

former Cuban President CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

HoweReD,

he was unable to furnish this individual's name.

He

also identified him as being one of SANTO TRAFFICANTE®s

= I-

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32325918 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 92-88

The informant was unable to furnish any

additional. information concerning this incident.

(The 1971 Florida

IW 81406 belongs to a 1968

Street, Miami, Florida BERTRAM

Is the wife of MACHO GENER, a

former official in the Cuban CuBA

Government long known as a close

friend of SANTO TRAFFICANTE.)

On September 24, 1970, MM 1311-C-TE advised

that

SANTO TRAFFICANTE had spoken yesterday by telephone

with RITA GARCIA at her home:

RITA plans to leave for

Jose Costa Rica, on September 25, 1970, to joir

her husband, TRAFFICANTE associate, EVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL.

On September 25, 1970, MM 1401-C-TE advised

that during the prior week SANTO TRAFFICANTE was in

need of some immediate cash and JOE ROSATO gave him

$15000 which ROSATO obtained from his bank on the

corner of 96th Street and NE 2nd Avenue, Miami Shores.

- K -

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32325918

Page 3

---

