# docid-32294688

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10213-10464

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-79913-52

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 04/01/1960

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

LCA, 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32294688

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: -11=11-2017

777

STATES DEPARTMENT (

EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CE

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

Washington, D. C.

APR 1 1950

CAPTAIN ANGEL LORENZO SAAVEDRA CORREA

detectan

23/95

13%

Decia

On March 1, 3, 7, and 17, 1960, Captain Angel

Lorenzo Saavedra Correa furnished the following information

to Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation

concerning his activities since he ceased active command

D. C., on January 25, 1960, When he turned over control of

the office to his successor, Major Jose Moleon Carrera. 2(W

the "Diplomatic List, published by the United States

Department of State lists Major Jose Moleon Carrerar as the

Military and Air Attache of the Embassy of Cuba 5

In connection with his current status, Saavedra

advised on March 3, 1960, that he spent most of the previous

United States Immigration and Naturalization

Service (INS),

Washington, D. C., answering questions regarding his history

with the Cuban Army, his reasons for resigning his commission

with the Cuban Army, and his opinion evaluating the current

Cuban situation.

Saavedra said in answer to his question

of his own status in the United States Mr. Dinwiddie merely

advised him that his case is under investigation by INS

and that Saavedra was not to leave the Washington area until

notified by INS.

r.

Saavedra advised that the questionnaire he answered

on March 2, 1960, at INS was read over and confirmed by him

at INS, which statement he signed on March 7, 1960.

Saavedra made it known that

he was told by Hector

on March 17, Ollon who is a Secretary employed

by the Office

the treasurer if the Cuban Military Attäche and who is also

Of the 26th of July Movement, in Washington,

that the newly appointed Cuban Military Attache, Major

Jose Moleon, stated on February 17, 1960, that Saavedra

has been branded by the Cuban Government as a Cuban Army

deserter and as a traitor to Cuba.(sm).

Concerning the 26th of July Movement, It is noted "

that Fidel Castro, presently Prime Minister of

Cuba, led an

unsuccessful attack against the Moncada Barracks on July 26,

1953, from whence his organization has taken its name.

105-79913-52

BONFIBENTIA

DiV 010

ENCLOSURE

SECRETI

CLACSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GC

DEU

ON:

15X6)

DocId: 32294688

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released' under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: - 11-14-2017

RECRET

RE: CAPTAIN ANGEL, LORENZO

SAAVEDRA CORREA

"Enclosed for you

by the Chief of Intelligence

data hereinbefore set forth.

a copy of the report submitted

f

FAR in which are expressed the

"Fraternally yours,

"'In the triumph of

the Revolution

(Major Ramiro Valdes Hernandez.

Chief of Intelligence

Administration G-2"]()

(Department of Intelligence (s)

August 20, 1959

YEAR OF THE LIBERATION

"Re :

Confidential Report to the Chief, (G-2](5)

"From:

Department of Intelligence STAR in l

"To :

(C-2 (Intelligence Administration)]s)

"By this medium, I have the honor of informing you

of the following:

The headquarters of this FAR received an envelope

containing

a secret report from the Military Attache of the

Embassy of

Cubaf in Washington.

This envelope was opened and

later sent to this department. (R/M)

Having informed myself of the contents of the

envelope, I am taking the initiative concerning the data which

the aforementioned Military Attache is requesting. I would

like to

advise you of the following concerning Lt. Jame

""' Commandant Evans Rosales,, Chief of the Office of

this FAR

was questioned in this matter and he advises that

said Lieutenant is under his command at the present time,

likewise was a combatant in the Sierra Maestra with him.

and

"It. Jane Genstry was discharged by ex-Commandant

Pedro Luis Diaz Lanz during the first months of the revolution.

Afterwards, Genstry went to the Staff of the Army in Ciudad

Libertad, where he was named Second Lieutenant by Commandant Luzon

CECRET - 13 -

OUR IDENTIL

DocId: 32294688 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

-DATE: + 11-14-2017

RE: CAPTAIN ANGEL LORENZO

SAAVEDRA CORREA

"When Diaz Lanz

said Lieutenant spoke with

Commandant Evans RosalesSand asked that he be transferred back

This request was granted by Commandant AlmeidaS

"3)

Together with this information, I have, the pleasure

of sending you the report of the Military Attache,

"and at the

same time

a photograph of the American, Jame Genstry,

so that

it may be determined whether or not the man who went to the

Embassy to give the information referred to is the same as

the person who is assigned to this FAR because of his revolutionary

background. (lu)

"In hopes of a reply or amplification of this report,

I remain, yours sincerely 6 4)

"s/ Carlos Hernandez Lopez.

2nd Lt., Chief of the Dept.

Int? FAR. "VS*

26th OF JULY MOVEMENT - BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

Saavedra on March 17, 1960, furnished the identities

of the following 26th of July members of the Baltimore,

Maryland, area who were part of

a group of other Cuban

people

In Washington who greeted Fidel' Castro in April, 1959, when

he visited Washington, D. C.:

Jose

Pulido

Rubin Ares

Angelywaldino, Peres

GabrielV Rodriguez Pileta

Juan Antonio Padron

Saavedra also furnished the following names of

individuals who represented a 26th of July delegation which

arrived from Connecticut to welcome Fidel Castro in April, 1959.

According to Saavedra,

these individuals were from the Bridgeport,

Stamford, Meriden, Connecticut, areas.

Luis GarciaLeal

Celestino, Rodriguez

Pedro Castillo

Rubin tidalgo

afael Ava,

rancisco Torre

Reimund Cruz

- 14 -

SECRET

DocId: 32294688 Page 4

---

