# docid-32305111

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/14/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10287-10241

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-6054-675

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIREER, FE

MILLER, SAMUEL A.

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/10/1964

53

LCN, ASSOC, MAFIA, RACK ACT, ARREST, MEETING, POLIT,

GAMBLING, TRA, NUMBERS RACKET, NARCITOCS,

CRIMINAL ACT, CONSPR, MISUR, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/26/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE ii, INDEX PAGES 1-5

/

v9.1

NW 45839 DocId: 32305111 Page 1

30

---

## Page 2

3-1-501

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

PITTSBURGH

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

PITTSBURGH

DATE

7/10/64

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

11/20/63 - 7/6/64

LA COSA NOSTRA,

PITTSBURGH DIVISION

SAMUELA.

MILIER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

jma, emq

pisa mms

AR - CONSPIRACY

REFERENCES:

Report of SA SAMUEL A.

MILIER, Pittsburgh,

12/13/63.

Cleveland letters to Pittsburgh, 12/6 & 10/63.

Chicago letter to Pittsburgh, 12/30 63.

New York letter to Pittsburgh,

Newark letter to Pittsburgh, 1/7/64.

Cleveland letter to Bureau, 1/31/64.

Pittsburgh letter to Philadelphia,

3/31/64.

Bureau letter to Pittsburgh, 5/11/64.

Philadelphia letter to Pittsburgh

New York letter to Bureau, 6/23/64.5/13/64-

-P.-

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2): Two copies of a letterhead memorandum

reflecting characterizations of informants

utilized in this report.

TO NEW YORK

Two copies of a letterhead memorandum

reflecting characterization of informants

utilized in this report.

APPROVAL WHALERANEN

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

3. - Bureau (92-6054)

92-6054-675

1 - Clevelana (92-748) (Inro.)

2 • New York (92-2341)

(Encl. 2)

2 - Pittsburgh (92-599)

REG. 40

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY.

EQUEST RECD.

TE FWD. ...

I FWD. _

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

18-76324-1

NW 45839 DocId: 32305111 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-599

LEADS

CLEVELAND - INFORMATION

An Information copy of this report is being furnished

the Cleveland Office in view of information provided by

cieveland informants which sets forth certain relationships

between Cleveland and Pittsburgh members of La Cosa Nostra.

PITTSBURGH

AT PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

Will report results of informant contacts and

evaluation of information furnished by NY T-2 relative to

Pittsburgh members of La Cosa Nostra between the years of

approximately 1913 to 1932.

2. Will closely follow activities of SEBASTIAN

JOHN IA ROCCA as "Commission" member as well as related

members of Pittsburgh "families" to effect further identification,

leadership and membership.

identify Information furnished by CV 554-pc, CV 557-PC and

CV 344-C relative to relationships possibly existing between

of La Cosa Nostra.

FRIE

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is to be noted that coverage of reported members

of La Cosa Nostra in the Pittsburgh area has been effected

through the following informants.

Although these informants

have produced no information specifically relating to La Cosa

Noe futurey are in a position to furnish such information in

PG 622-C* (SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA

•¢ 685-c* (Gambling and racketeering in general

in the Pittsburgh area)

PG 713-C* (SAMUEL and GABRIEL MANNARINO)

PG 721-C* (MICHAEL GENOVESE)

-B .

COVER PAGE

5311005÷1

NW 45839 DocId: 32305111 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 92-599

During the week of 6/15/64 Pittsburgh Agents

conducted surveillances of JAMES P. SALAMONE and DOMINICK

coverage of these individuals is feasible.

anti-racketeering subjects of the Pittsburgh Office residing

in arle, fa.,

and are mentioned on occasions by BU 82-c* as

being in contact with STEVE MAGGADINO and associates at.

Buffalo, N. Y•

Certain information contained in the details of

this report suggesting possible leads or investigation by

other offices has been previously set out in substantive

case files pertaining to individuals whose names appear in

this

report.

Investigative periods preceding the date of the

last report are a result of certain data not being available

at the time of dictation of report or being inadvertently

left out during review of pertinent files pertaining to

anti-racketeering subjects.

The source at the Western Pennsylvania National Bank,

Pittsburgh, who furnished information to SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON,

on June 1, 1964, I$ DAVID KING, Vice-president, Auditing

Division.

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 1S PG 694-PC, contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELIA.

PG T-2 1s PG 722-PC, contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG T-3 Is WILLIAM RABEN, Lewisburg, Pa., (request)

contacted by SA GEORGE P. GAMBLIN.

PG T-4 1s CV 557-PC, contacted by the Cleveland

office.

PG T-5 15 PG 632-C, contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE.

PG T-6 1S PG 640-CTE, contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG I-T 1s CV 344-C, contacted by the Cleveland

office.

•C-

COVER PAGE

NW 45839 DocId: 32305111 Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-599

PG T-8 1s JOSEPH NUGARA, JR., Braddock, Pa. (request),

contacted by SAs SAMUEL A. MILLER and M. JAMES KRUSCHKE.

PG T-9 1S FRANK SALA, McKeesport, Pa. (request)

contacted by SAs MILIER and KRUSCHKE.

PG T-10 1s CG 6670-PC, contacted by the Chicago

Office.

PG T-I1 1S PG 657-CTE, contacted by SA JAMES Bo

FANNING.

PG T-12 is JOSEPH F. BAZZONE, Irwin, Pa. (request),

contacted by SAs MILIER and KRUSCHKE.

PG T-13 1S PG 704-PC, contacted by SA WILLIAM B.

ANDERSON, JR.

PG T-14 1S PCI

contacted by

SA MILLER.

PG T-15 1s PCIL

I contacted by SA MILLER.

PG I-16 1s PG 661-C, contacted by SA MILLER.

PG T-17 1s PCI

, contacted by SA NORMAN T.

THOMPSON.

PG T-18 1s PCI EDWARD M. BURKE, contacted by

SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG T-19 1s PH 614-CTE, contacted by the Philadelphia

office.

PG T-20 1s PCI JOSEPH TOPOLINO, contacted by the

Miami Office...

FORSYTH, IFf T-22 18 B& 707-C, contacted by SA THOMAS Gi

PG T-22 is PCIl

I Security

Investigator, SEC, NY, contacted by the New York Office.

OTHER 4

-D-

COVER PAGE

S1d 109.1

NW 45839

DocId: 32305111 Page 5

---

## Page 6

: PG. 92-599

PG T-23 1S TONY• ANDOLINA, Brentwood, Pa. (request),

contacted by SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG T-24 1s SAUL TAYLOR, 4825 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh

(request), contacted by SA. NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

PG T-25 1S JOHN MORAN, Court Place, Pittsburgh,

contacted by SA JAMES B. FANNING.

PG T-26 1s SF 2354-CTE, contacted by the San

Francisco Office.

PG T-27 Is CV 554-PC, contacted by the Cleveland

Office.

- E*

COVER PAGE

NW 45839 DocId: 32305111 Page 6

---

