# docid-32332876

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90104-10174

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2940-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/08/1959

19

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45836 DocId: 32332876 Page 1

17

---

## Page 2

: Report: For

FD-263 (5-1

FEDERAL BUREAU Pr

PEATION

porting Office

TITLE OF CASE

PITTSBURGH

Office of Origin

PITTSBURGH

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, aka

Date

OCT 8

1959

Report made by

ROBERT A. VOEGE

CHARACTER OF CASE

Investigative Period

7/29-10/5/59

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typed By:

Approved

Copies made:

REFERENCES

Report of SA ROBERT A. VOEGE, Pittsburgh, 8/3/59.

Pittsburgh letter to Bureau, 9/15/59.

-P. -

LEADS

JACKSONVILLE and MIAMI - INFORMATION

A copy of this report is being furnished to the Jacksonville

and Miami Offices for informational purposes because of allegations

made by the wife of LA ROCCA and Pittsburgh informants concern-

ing the travel of LA ROCCA to Florida and Cuba during his

disappearance from Pittsburgh following the Apalachin, N. Y.

conference during November, 1957. With the background thus

supplied it is felt that these offices can intelligently handle

the coverage of future leads requested in the vicinity. It

will further be noted that an individual identifying himself

as

LA ROCCA called the home telephone number of the subject on 7/3/59,

collect from Hop-ywood, Fla.

Special Agent

Bureau (92-2940) KC 4712

Jacksonville

(Info)

- Miami (92-163) Info

- Philadelphia (92-497)

(Info)

2

-Pittsburgh (92-226)

•Do not write in spaces below

92-2940-5/

26. OCT 12 1959

REG 5

390

OCT 15 1959

erty of FBI: This report is loaned to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which lomed.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE, 1988 0 344750

836*

*Docid: 32332876 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 92-226

6.

Wiil check the list of toll calls made from Forest

4-5296, the home telephone of LA ROCCA, for the names

of racket associates and personal business contacts of

now persona

the subject not now known to the Pittsburgh Office and

will further identify and obtain appropriate background

information of subscribers to telephone numbers called.

ADMINISTRATIVE

The reporting of this matter has been necessarily delayed

inasmuch as SA ROBERT A. VOEGE was requested to be avail-

able in court during the trial of the case entitled,

"CLARINDA E. TAYLOR, Individually and as Administratrixx

of the Estate of John P. Taylor, Deceased; ET AL, FTCA."

CRIMINAL INFORMANT COVERAGE

The following individuals are presently being utilized by

the Pittsburgh Office in the SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA investiga-

tion:

PG 573-S, who is extremely friendly with the GENOVESE brothers

and particularly FIORE GENOVESE, younger brother of MIKE

GENOVESE, and who is presently being utilized for the general

coverage of the Red Eagle Club and its visitors.

PG 585-C, who is well acquainted with most of Pittsburgh's

top hoodlums

and who was formerly employed as a waitress in

' the Red Eagle Club, once known as the Genovese Cocktail Lounge,

412 Larimer Avenue, Pittsburgh. Informant still visits this

establishment and comes in constant contact with MIKE GENOVESE

and other members of Pittsburgh's racketeering element in

her role as a medium-priced prostitute.

Informant is presently

traveling with Mrs. JULIA MINTZ, widow of JAKE MINTZ, co-owner

of EZZARD CHARLES, former world's heavyweight boxing champion.

She is presently being utilized for the coverage of the

GENOVESE-LA ROCCA-NELSON interests.

-C -

COVER PAGE

NW 45836

DocId: 32332876

Page 3

---

## Page 4

OTHER 4

PG 92-226

a PCI who is presently very active

in Pittsburgh numbers

operations and who was arrested

during the month a

¿August, 1958, in connection with his

operation.

s intimately acquainted with many

Pittsburgh top hoodlums and racketeers through association

with them when they began their racket careers.

He is

presently being utilized for coverage of the GENOVESE-NELSON

interests

and is also contributing information regarding

the VOLPE brothers who are close associates of GENOVESE and

TA DANGA

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office presently

engaged in racket activity in the City of Pittsburgh who

is being utilized for general coverage of lottery and numbers

operations in the Pittsburgh area.

a PCI of- the Pittsburgh Office who is part

owner of the notorious gambling establishment at Chester,

W. Va, known

as Club 30, who is being utilized for informa-

tion concerning the club and the interest in it of Pittsburgh

hoodlums associated with both LA ROCCA and GENOVESE.

a PCI of the Pittsburgh Office who is

being utilized for information concerning Pittsburgh prostitution

activities and as a check on the activities of PG 585-C.

AL BUCK, former Allegheny. County Detective and now Vice-

President of the Fidelity Trust Company, Loan Department,

Pittsburgh, who is being utilized for his knowledge of the

Bankers Exchange in Pittsburgh from which he can obtain informa-

tion regarding bank loans made to Pittsburgh top hoodlums.

BUCK is also familiar with the activities of several of

Pittsburgh's top hoodlums, particularly those of LA ROCCA,

from having worked on criminal matters 'for many years in the

City of Pittsburgh.

-D-

COVER PAGE

• i:

NW 45836

DocId: 32332876

Page 4

---

## Page 5

PG 92-226

confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who is being utilized for information concerning

the MANNARINO organization in New Kensington, Pa., and

who is also furnishing information regarding tie-ups with

the GENOVESE organization in Pittsburgh.

OTHER 4

a

confidential source of the Pittsburgh

Office who was extremely helpful to Pittsburgh Agents

during the investigation of the RALPH KINER extortion

investigation several years ago and whose brother-in-law,

NORMAN FARBER, is a

member of the MANNARINO organization.

In an effort to increase criminal informant coverage, the

PCIs under development are being contacted on a continuing

and regular basis so that information obtained from them

may be. used on a

when he is in the Pittsburgh vicinity.

It is anticipated that THOMAS MARTIN, Vice-President

of the Real Estate Department of the Fidelity Trust Company,

Potter Branch, in Pittsburgh, will keep the Pittsburgh

Office advised of any new developments concerning the completed

construction of a motel financed by MIKE GENOVESE and ARTHUR D.

NELSON in the Monroeville, Pa., vicinity which would

undoubtedly have to have the approval and overall financial

backing of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA!

-E*-

COVER PAGE

NW 45836 DocId: 32332876 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PG 92-226

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 is WILLIAM MEREDITH, Special Agent, Bell Telephone

Company of Pennsylvania, who was contacted by SA HAROLD L.

STEVENS on 9/25/59, and who has requested that his identity

be concealed.

PG T-2 is H. W. GLENN, Postal Inspector, U. S. Post Office,

Pittsburgh, Pa., who was contacted by SA ROBERT, A. VOEGE

on 8/31/59, andwho has requested that his identity be

concealed.

PG T-3 is CG 6343-C who was contacted by Agents of the

Chicago Office on 9/8/59, and whose information

subsequently furnished to the Pittsburgh Office on 9/9/59.

PG T-4 is PG 585-C who was contacted by SA VOEGE on

7/30/59 and again on 9/2 and 16/59.

-14-

NW 45836 DocId: 32332876 Page 6

---

