# docid-32303239

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERJES :

124-10283-10251

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 62-9-33-484

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45949 Date:

41-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

KENNEDY, REGIS L.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/09/1964

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS:

SS, ASSOC, GAMBLING, RACK ACT, FGJ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/11/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

174 45949

DocId: 32303239

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-288 (Rev 3-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING ÓFFICE

NEW ORLEANS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW ORLEANS

TITLE OF CASE

•CRimiNAl Intellege sean

CRIME CONDITIONS IN LOUISIANA

DATE

OCT

9.19641.

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

REPORT MADE BEA

4/7 - 9/25/64

SA REGIS L. KENNEDY

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

TYPED BY

lyc,

mrk,

SWs.

mam,

CV

REF ER ENCES

New Orleans.

Bureau letter to Albany, 9/13/62

Report of SA REGIS L. KENNEDY, 4/6/64, at

Bureau airtel to Albany, 5/27/64.

ENCLOSUR ES

Three copies of lul characterizing informants.

INFORMANTS

NO T-21 is NO 1203-C.

IRS, New Orleans, La.

NO I-22 is EDWARD ROUSSELL, Chief Intelligence Division,

NO T-42 is NO 1011-C.

APPROVE

COPIES

Bureau (62-9-33) (Ener 3)

1- USA

• New Orleans

unit 1-USA

Shreveport

10- New

Orleans

(2-92-346)

10/32:3141 (92-346A)

(92-346B)

1o15al64

(92-346C)

(92-346D)

(92-346E)

(92-346F)

(92-346G)

(92-346P)

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

i 33

484 REC6

16 OCT 12 1964

EX 10g

REG AST

IST T08

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED

REPORT

AGENCY_.

REQUEST RECD..

164

TATIONS

Stifles

BY..

774 45949

DocId

3239

• Page 2

---

## Page 3

JFK Act

6 (4)

NO 92-346

NO: T-43 is NO 1227-PC.

NO T-44 is NO 1232-CTE.

NO T-48 is 'NO 1229-C.

NO T-50. is NO 1225-C.

NO T-51 is

CARRILES.

of JOSEPH

ADMINISTRATIVE

Information in this report was prepared by SA REGIS

L. KENNEDY at New Orleans, La., SA ELMER B. LITCHFIKLD at

Baton Rouge, La., SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD at Lafayette,

SA JAMES FRANCIS WRIGHT at Lake Charles, La., SA

WILLIAM E. DINT, JR. at Monroe, La., and SA THURMAN P.

KELLEY at Shreveport, La.

Information of interest to other law enforcement

agencies has been disseminated

on a day-to-day basis as

the inbrmation

was acquired.

Pending investigations

are being conducted by the

New Orleans Office entitled:

MORRIS TERRY;

ETAL

Terry's Place

ITAR

NO file 166-147

Bufile 166-1214

ALBERT J. SALZER; ETAL

The Chesterfield Club

ITAR

NO file 166-49

Bufile 166-387

There is a possibility of Grand Jury action on the

above case in the

near future.

Close observation of the apparently growing

gambling activities in the vicinity of Gonzales, La. will

B

COVER PAGE

HIH

45949 DooId: 32303239 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NO 92-346

BLAK: CV

for NOLAN and DI PIAZZA and DOMINIC DIAZ who formerly

operated a tomato company in the New Orleans French

Market®

A Federal Grand Jury is currently considering

charges and hearing witnesses involving the gambling

activities of the above individuals®

I-48 advised that the Country Manor located

• in Iberville Parish is currently being operated by

EUGENE ANTHONY NOLAN. This is a casino-type gambling

operation.

E. LEONIDA E. PRICE

LEONIDA E. PRICE, 1435 Parker Street, Baton

Rouge, Louisiana, is a Baton Rouge handbook operator

and is closely associated with EUGENE ANTHONY NOLAN

in the Baton Rouge area.

F. SAMASAIA LA

SAM SAIA is a well known New Orleans sporting

figure who operates Felix's Restaurant and the Two

Jays Bar in New Orleans. He is allegedly the financial

backer of the Paramount Club which is the trade name

for the following individuals who hold Federal Wagering

Tax Stamps in the Parish of Orleans.

JOSEPH T. CARRILES, residence 1755 Paul Morphy

Street, holds the principal stamp, and the following

are listed as Agents at the same address:

JOHN SANTUCCI,

PETER JOHN SCAGLIONE and ANTHONY. SCIAMBRA:

NO T=51 advised on September 4, 1964, that the

following is a sunmary of the activity of the Paramount

Club as reflected in the records of JOSEPH T. CARRILES:

Monday, August 24, baseball win, $65, horses

lose $24.60, winning $40.40;

August 25, baseball win $48, horses win $3.20,

day's winning, $51.20;

August 26, baseball lose $135.80, horses win

$3.00, day's loss $132.80;

47

NW 45949 DooId: 32303239 • Page 4

---

## Page 5

NO 92-346

RLK: CV

August 27, Thursday, baseball win $.40, horses

$.50, day's winning $.90;

August 28, Friday, baseball loss, $173.25,

horses win, $18.00,

day's loss $155.25;

August 29, Saturday, baseball loss, $676.25,

horses loss $11.10, day's loss

$687.35

T-51 advised that SAM SAIA pays little or no

attention

to the operation of the book as long as it

is making money, but during the football season is a

large better on

football.

G. HARRYA

BENNETT

LA:

HARRY BENNETT, former New Orleans bookmaker

residing in Claiborne Towers, moved to Biloxi, Mississippi.

He returned to his original home which is Biloxin

July 17, 1964, he was indicted with JOSEPH FRANCIS

GILLESPIE by Federal Grand Jury at Des Moines, Iowa, fOr

violation of the ITWI statute.

H.

CHARLES T.XD'AMICO

CHARLES

D'AMICO, Alexandria, Louisiana,

bookmaker, was indicted on May 6, 1964, by Federal Grand

Jury at Shreveport, Louisiana, for violation of the

ITAR - Gambling statute.

This indictment grew out of

his illegal use of a Western Union sports ticker.

1. FRANK LEONRUCT FRAN X VUCCi

LA' FRANK LEO VUCI, West Baton Rouge Parish owner

of the Club Louisianne and the Play Toy Club on U. S.

at Port Allen, is reported by T-48 as of

september 23, 1964, to be apening a club oa jefferson

Highway in Ascension Parish below Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

This club will be called The Villa.

This is a new club

being constructed on property purchased by CHARLES/POE,

former owner of the State Novelty Company, Baton Rouge,

Louisiana.

T-48 advised that Sheriff BELVIN BERGERON of

West Baton Rouge Parish has begun to enforce closing

in West Baton Rouge Parish,

and this is hurting

many of the clubs on U.S. Highway 190 just west of the

48

NW 45949 DooId: 32303239

Page 5

---

