# docid-32177993

## Page 1

under the teha FKersedy.Assassination Records Collection Act OF 1992 114 USC 2107

DATE 11-14-2017

IDENTIRICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD _NUMBER: 124-10227-10203

RECORD_SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-3702-616

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/09/1964

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 105-82555-3340

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/20/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

DocId: 32177993

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

11-14-2017

9;*

-tan

CtA1170

L.

-ARON TO

4/9/64

IN THIS DOCUMENT. 1/2847K

AIRTEL

SECRET

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-82555)

CIA HAS NO\OB/ECTION TO

DECLAJGIFICA

MON AND/OR,

RELEASE OF

INFOSMAATION

IN THE DOLARA WT. JBH 624/93

EXCER, BRACKETS PE3

$803 R80/KSR 512-93 (5FK)

Classif

Deciassity

FROM:

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY

SUBJECT: LEE HARVEY OSWALD, aka

IS - R - CUBA

(105-3702) (P)

8110493

Classister

Declassify

9803 2DD/GCL

DAD'# JFK

5668: sende

JEK)

2/6/97 (55K

ReBuairtel 4/1/64 and

Mexico City cable 4/8/64.

It Is belleved by the Mexico City Office that an

Interview of CHARLES SMALL by Mexican authorities would be

highly undesirable for the following reasons:

The only information concerning SMALL's reactions

and statements concerning OSWALD came from MEX-18 and MEX- [4J

that information was passed

on to them as the basis for an interview, there is no

assurance that they would not reveal it to the subject.

the informants as the source of the information, thereby

destroying their future utility and embarrassing the

on 11/23/63, ELIZABETH CATETT MORA (Bufile

100-395934) advised (NEX-18 and MEX-198(5)

the PCM was

5 - Bureau

DEACIFIED BY 30421WT AG

1 ~ Llaison section

DECLASSIMS ON

1 - Dallas, 100-10461

Mexico City

(1 - MC 100-1535, SMALI)

NLF:e1m

(7)

AIRIEL

SECRET

105 - 5702-611

+71795-7727

SERHONIO.....

. IMDENED

DESALIZE IATILE...

DocId: 32177993 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (41 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

• мс 105-3702

SECRET

"very concerned over the assassination of President KENNEDY

and the involvement of OsWALd, who was connected with the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPeO).

Although she did not

Indicate which organism of the POl had reached this decision;

It 1s to be noted that MORA was a'member of the so-called

Leadership Branch of the PoM.

decided that

there were only four American in Mexico who

might possibly be involved in FPCC operations as far as

the Mexican police might know: ASA ZAIZ (Bufile 105-16890),

CHARLES SMALL, and the informants.

As the Bureau 1s aware,

the informants came to the

attention of the Mexican authorities when HELEN LEVI TRAVIS

(Buf1le 100-336032), who was admittedly a member of the FPCC,

was arrested and deported in November, 1962.

At that time,

the Mexican police found the informants' home address and

telephone number in TRAVIS! motel room and It was necessary

for the Informants to go into hiding until the Mexican police

gave up efforts to interview them.

3(4)

on 11/23/63, MORA advised the informants that 1f

any action was taken against them by the Mezican police,.

they should immediately get In touch with JUAN MANUEL

GUTIERREZ, the Mexico City attorney whom the informants had

arrested

for political reasons.

Under the above circumstances, therefore, any

request of the Mexican police to interview SMALL on the basis

of his relations with members of the FPCC would focus, the

also take action against the informants.

Consideration has also been given to calling SMALL,

who 1s an American citizen, into the Embassy for interview.

It is not felt, however, that such action would be advisable

since any interrogation

by Embassy personnel& including this

office,

would necessartly haye to be predicated on Informa-ll lu

tion from MEX-18 and NEX-19. which would jeopardize the

informants the same as if done by the Mexican police to

The informants have also advised that SMALL has

- 2 -

SERRETI

DocId: 32177993

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, Of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MC 105-3702

RECHEL

a heart condition, claims to have suffered a slight heart

attack while in the United States in September, 1963, and is

In poor health. Information received from CIA, Mexico, clas-

sified: "SEGRET"

and not to be disseminated outside the

Bureau,.

also confirms SMALi's reported heart condition and his

Mexican police or American personnel might either percipitate

another heart attack or cause the subject to claim another such

attack and accuse the Bureau of being responsible for It.

In addition to the above factors,

the Mexico City

Office has no information to show that such an interview,

either by the Mexican police or the American officers would

be productive.

Available sources have given no indicatior

that SMALL actually ever new or saw OSWALD. * His claim that

he must have known OSWALD at some time and that he might

have met OSWAID in Mexico was, according to NEX-18 and MEX-1918(4)

based on the fact that many American communists visiting

Mexico go to SMALL's store

and that he assists them in con-

nection with their problems while visiting Nexico City

SMALL, however, has given no indication that he

recognized OSWALD from the newspaper pictures printed in

Mexico City or recognized his name as being one of the

visitors at his store.

The informants have reported that

following the assassination of President KENNEDY and the

public identification.of OSWALD's leftist connections with

the FPCC and his former residence in the soviet union, the

American communists in Mexico were extremely fearful,

Ing police harrassment of all leftists.

expect-

They considered

SMALL's concern over the possibility that OSWALD might have

visited his store to be part of the general concern of all

American communists here after reading that OSWALD had been

In Mexico. No information has since been developed to the

contrary.

In light of the above, the Mexico City Office does

not believe that an interview of SMALL should be undertaken

by either Mexican or American officials.

-SEON

- LECHEL

DocId: 32177993

Page 1

---

