# docid-32114403

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-11-2017

--....

--. --.- -

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10003-10277

RECORD SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-10461-7739, 7740

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

09/00/0000

SUBJECTS:

SEE FBI 105-82555-3RD NR 4661

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

04/10/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC FBI MEMO AND LHM

V9.1

DocId: 32114403

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Cöllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hbte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director, FBI

Legat, London

MARK

SM

ANE

CONEIDENTIAD

(100-409763)

(100-3247) . (P)

8/17/64

ALC INCORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIAISD

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Re London letter 6/30/64.

By letter dated 8/5/64 the Danish Security

Service (DSS) furnished information

set out m enclosed

THi.

T-I in the enclosure is the Dss..

The LHM is

classified

CONFIDENTIAL in accordance with the desires

of the DSS:

3 - Bureau (Enc.

5)

1 - Liaison (Enc. 1) (sent direct)

1 - London

JTM: vW

(5.)

4a14

Classined by9803 aDD KSK

Declassify on: ORDR

10070461- 7740

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED.

@ END ...

Suit loui

FBI - DALLAS

CONTDENIAO

3-10911

DocId: 32114403 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

• DATE: 11-11-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

WASHINGTON; D.C. 20535

August 17, 1964

ALL IUFORMATION CONTAINED

MARK LANE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

On August 5, 1964/

T-1,

confidential source abroad,

furnished information as follows: (U

MARK LANE entered Denmark April 9, 1964, from Rome

and stayed at the Hotel Royal in, Copenhagen

on April 9 and

10, 1964.

On April 16, 1964, he re-entered Denmark from

London, England, and he stayed at the Hotell king, Copenhagen,

April 16 and 17,

1964,

and at the Hotel Skoyriderkroen on

April 17: and 18, 1964. (C)

On April 10,

1964, LANE delivered a lecture to the

Students' Union in Copenhagen concerning the assassination of

In this regard, I-l advised that a known

Danish communist,

President Kennedy® JORGEN TUALICHARD JACOBSEN, a lawyer, born

April 11, 1919, took the initiative in forming a Danish committee

for the main purpose of obtaining information on the continued

investigations into the assassination.

Further, this committee

to have translated and published a book

which LANE is

writing on LEE HARVEY OSWAlD'S part or innocence in the murder.C

JACOBSEN and LAND became acquainted sometime ago when.

attending the Congress of the International Association 0bc

Democratic Lawyers

Budapest and they intend to continue the

contact, as MARK

will supply the Danish Committee with ali

new material on the assassination.10

While in Denmark, MARK LANE was interviewed on April 28

1964, for eight minutes by the Danish State Television Service.

In the middle of May, T-I received Information that

MARK LANE intended to visit Denmark again and during the after-

of May 25, 1964, in Copenhagen he delivered a lecture at

a meeting organized by the Lawyers' Debating Club.

evening of May 25, 1964, in Aarhus, Denmark,

LANE delivered a

lecture to a meeting organized by the Students' Association and

datly paper "Demokraten." ©)

CONFIDENTIAL

33190

Classilled b49813 KID KS

Declassily on:

(DADR (JAK)

Tove I

ixcluded from automati

downgradine

' and

declassifidation

100-10461-7739

SEARCHED..

iNDEXED

SERIALZED.. S) ...

SLF2: 1964

FBI _ DALLAS

DocId: 32114403 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 741 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE,: 11-14-2017

CONFIDENTIAL

Manei

T-I advised that these lectures were similar to

his previous ones in that LANE gave an account of his

inquiries since the assassination in November and showed

why in his opinion OSVALD could not have been the assassin.

LANE also stated during the lectures that he had

visited Dallas, Texas,

five times;

that he was under sur

veillance by the FBI,

he was happy to have the opportunity of pleading

which tapped his telephones the cause

and that

in Europe as he had gained the impression that this was

being reported by the press in the United States. (C

LANE's comprehensive material on the assassination.

reportedly has been placed at the disposal of the Danish

Mark Lane Committee for the purpose of early publication. C

On May 26, 1964, LANE departed Copenhagen for Sweden,

France and England,

where he was also to deliver lectures: (C

I-I advised that Who Killed Kennedy Committees

have been established on LANE's initiative in Copenhagen,

Paris and London, all with prominent personalities as

members. (C

According to T-I, LANE returned to the United States

on July 1,

1964.

CONFIDENTIAL

• 2

100-10461-7739

DocId: 32114403

Page 4

---

