# docid-32397502

## Page 1

Date: 12/18/98

Page:

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

2-0-0

104-10433-10185

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 53216 Date:

06-13-2017

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : L'UNITA

REPORT: MEETING OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING

09/28/64

1

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS :

OPEN IN FULL

CURRENT STATUS :

OPEN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/18/98

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

POSTPONED iN fiLL-

JFK-RH19: F09 1998.12.18.10:34:15:903129: FILE ORIGINAL IS PREVIOUSLY

SANITIZED DOCUMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

HH 53216

DooId: 32397502

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Thio meirrial eenirlne Infirorolioe alleotine dir iatirmal Deefonse ef llo drraeel Cladre didten Deei GeeeirG ef the Degkanaer Rudir, Title

13. U.5.0a sora, i8l and i9t. lhe loesoniacioo nr prorlatimm eof ahini la cani

malitr! he Otl

ementlorieeed perecn is araliloileal log low.

COUNiRY Italy/USA

SUSJECT

Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther

King si

PEFORTLiD

DATE DISTP

NO. PAGES

RIFiPENCES

CS

DATE OF

INFO

PLACE &

DATE ASO

28 Septenber 1964

(i october 1964)

FHID RIPORI NO.

vi5coa912.

SOUPCE:

А, В, Ск

А В,е,

Hcelcomment: Given the source of the nhove report, ve fiow

In this connection,

the 19 Suptenber

issuC of

L'Unita, which refiected an

article on King's private

nudience with Pope Paul held the precediny day.

According to

L'Enita,

imncdiatoly after the audience, in St. Peter's Square,

Ring stated that "Popo Paul was most

clear on the fact that bolh

he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil

righls". The arliele also states

that in a press confercnce held

Fiunicino Alrport after the audience king said,

"The Pope will

shortly mnke a public sintement on incial segregation".

We have

no other information at this time.

• APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Dale 13 taud 1978.

298

HH 53216

DocId: 32397502. Page-2.

---

