# docid-32331962

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90100-10180

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 52-72398-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CV

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

06/08/1959

37

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

STUART SUTOR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

08/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : RPT, INC 2 ADMIN PAGES

v9.1

NW 45876 DocId: 32331962 Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

CV 105-3211

NEWARK: (INFORMATION)

one copy of this report in being furnishad to

Newark in view of the investigation in this matter being

conducted by that office and in vlew of their interest in

PETER LEBLOVIC.

NEW YORK: (INFORMATION)

Copies are being designated for New York in view

of the activity of subject organization in that territory

and in view of investigation being conducted by New York

in related cases.

Additional copies of this report are designated

for related cases at the Bureau, Miami, New York, and

Cleveland.

INFORMANTS

DATE RECEIVED

SOURCE

CV T-1

VIOLA BESSIE KRAJCIK

aka SALLY KRAJCIK

1515 Lincoln Way,

west, Wooster, Ohio

(By request)

LOCATION

10/16,22/58

11/12/58

1/29/59

2/4/59

4/2/59

52-1918-344

105-3211-23

52-1918-551

52-1918-344

CV T-2

ESCALINE MARONE

243 Palmer Street

Wooster, Ohio

(By request)

CV T-3

AL ROSSETTI, President

Rosbro Construction Company

Canton, Ohio

(By request)

105-3211-13

-

B

COVER PAGE

NW 45876 DocId: 32331962 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CV 105-3211

SOURCE

CV T-4

Cv 438-C

CV T-5

E. V. AULT, Manager

Central Ohio Telephone Company

(Deemed advisable

DATE RECEIVED

LOCATION

137-743-20

105-3211-13

ADMINISTRATIVE

It is noted that considerable information concerning

activities of LOUIS MARTINEZ of Canton, Ohio, appears in

the reports of SA HAROLD E. WEIDA, Cleveland, Oh10, dated

November 20, 1958 (pages 111-140); January 15, 1959 (Cover

Pages E and

F and pages 1-13); and March 2, 1959 (Cover Page:

E, G and H)

and Cleveland letter dated November 28, 195€

(pages 3-6, 9, 12-22) in the case entitled "STUART

ET AL, UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; Theft of 317 Weapons, 16 Blankets,

1 Carbine Rack; Ohio National Guard

Armory, Canton, Ohio,

October 14, 1958; TGP, ITSP, FFA, NM"

Copies of these communications had been furnished

Miami and New York and only that information considered

pertinent

report.

to instant case is being restated in the enclosed

Where interviews, as set forth in this report,

were previously set out on SF-64 or FD-302 Forms, the

location of the original is as follows:

Person Interviewed

Form

JOSEPH MARTINEZ, SR.

FD-302

WILLIAM ALFREZ

FD-302

FD-302

Location

52-1918-339

52-1918-339

52-1918-413

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

NH 45876 DocId:32331962 Page 3

---

## Page 4

F'D-204 (Rev. 9-23-58)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

File Number:

Title:

SA MICHAEL H. FARRIN

6/ 8/59

Office:

CLEVELAND, OHIO

CLEVELAND (105-3211)

BUREAU (97-3400)

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO, aka Revolutionary Directorate,

Revolutionary Directory, DR

Character:

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA; REGISTRATION ACT; NEUTRALITY MATTER

Synopsis:

Details:

LOUIS MARTINEZ, Canton, Ohio attorney, has indicated to

acquaintances in Canton area that he had some connection

with the Cuban Revolutionary forces of FIDEL CASTRO.

NICK TRIKILIS

, Wooster, Ohio, was associated with LOUIS

MARTINEZ in the Aranair Corporation, a small business in

Wooster,

Oh10. TRIKILIS stated that in 1958 MARTINEZ

had inquired as to where he might obtain rifles and

ammunition. MIKE SALAPACK, RED #4, Canton, Ohio, came •

Into contact with LOUIS MARTINEZ about ten years

ago in

Canton, Ohio, in connection with some labor law. JOSEPH

D. O'LEARY, Akron Police Department Number 42723, borr

Onio, August 23, 1911, is an attorney and was

employed for a short time in offices of Defense Department,

Bureau of Aeronautics, Representative, Plant D, Goodyear

Aircraft Corporation, Akron, Ohio, until discharged on

7/2/58.

- P - ALLINFORMATIO. CONTAINED

HERE 15

CHED

DATE 5/15/29 BYSPE TAPICA

RE: LOUIS MARTINEZ

JOHN MARTINEZ, High Life Grille, 1937 Mahoning,

He stated

with a paralyzed arm but graduated from law school about

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of anu hind

le ie ala

NH 45876 DocId:32331962 Page 4

---

## Page 5

OTHER 4

CV 105-3211

1949, after which he practiced law for a short time in

Canton.

Thereafter LOUIS started writing bad checks and

getting into trouble, causing JOHN MARTINEZ and the family

to "pay him out". JOHN MARTINEZ stated that his brother

had moved out of the family home in Canton and lived for a

short time in Wooster, Ohio, where he was friendly with

NICK TRIKILIS and reportedly owned an interest in the Aranair

Corporation in that city.

JOHN MARTINEZ stated that his

brother, LOUIS, always talked about how he was going to

make a lot of money but actually had never made any and

as a matter of fact owes everyone in Canton.

JOSEPH MARTINEZ,

SR., 336 Rice Street, Canton,

Ohio, advised on October 21, 1958, that his son, LOUIS

MARTINEZ, had continually caused the family embarrassment

because of his activities. He stated that LOUIS MARTINEZ

had graduated from Ohio State University in 1948 but had

practiced law for only a very short time in Canton where

he had an office in the Dime Bank Building.

On October 21',

• 1950, WILLIAM ALFREL, owner.

Bilyn's Restaurants, 215 Court, NW,

advised SA JAMES E.

GILIEY that he had known LOUIS MARTINEZ ever since they

lived in the same neighborhood as children. ALFREZ

stated that at the present time MARTINEZ owes him a total

of about $7,200.00 for debts, notes and various business

ventures which had failed to materislize.

He stated that

about six months previously, MARTINEZ had a bill sent to

his restaurant for three plane flights from Canton, Ohio,

to Kansas City, Miami and Chicago, though he, ALFREZ, had

not

authorized

any such travel by MARTINEZ.

however, that he was required to pay the cost of these

flights, a total of $337.00.

On November 6, 1958, PETE SHRUM, State Hotel,

Canton, Ohio, advised SA

LEONARD V. DAHL. as follows:

a truck driver for the Canton Sewer

Department,

advised that one of his fellow employees,

TOM MUSAT, known as "POMPS"

• appears to be a good friend

Of LOUIS MARTINEZ.

week MUSAT had asked him,

in going to Cuba as a "solaler o

i notated that maine

stated that during the previous

if he would be interested

fortune". When he asked

2

NW 45876 DocId: 32331962 Page 5

---

## Page 6

OTHER 4

v 105-3211

MUSAT 1f MARTINEZ could set this up for him, MUSAT stated

that MARTINEZ had the connections tö get him down there

and they already had one boy from Canton fighting for

CASTRO.

On January 6, 1959,

advised SA HAROLD E.

WEIDA that he had seen LOUIS MARTINEZ, on two occasions since

November;

1958, both times in the High Life Bar in Canton.

stated that on the last occasion MARTINEZ mentioned

that within four to five days the rebels would know how

many men they would need to gain victory in Cuba, indicating

at that time that either the rebel cause would be victorious

or they would be in a position of needing additional men

and equipment.

MARTINEZ made no further mention of the

need for men in cuba and made no specifte request at that

time that

to Cuba, to engage in the revolution.

On October 21, 1958, P. TOM MUSAT, 1805 Seventh

Street, NE, Canton, Ohio, advised SA GILLEY

that he had been

a close friend of LOUIS MARTINEZ for a number of years and

had no knowledge of the latter's friends, associates or

activities.

On November 3, 1958, LOUIS MARTINEZ, Canton,

Ohio,

was interviewed at his request by SAS GILLEY and WEIDA.

At this time MARTINEZ stated that in January, 1958,

Miami, Florida, he had met FRANCISCO VARONA, a political

from Cuba, through MANUEL ALONSO of Canton, Ohi0,

VARONA's wife's uncle.

MARTINEZ also stated that his arrest in New York

City in October, 1958, was unwarranted because he had had

no connection with the kidnapping of SIDNEY NEUBAUER.

stated that his only interest was in obtaining the release

РАДЕ О ЗБОЕ М

He

of NEUBAUER and securing the return of money which PETER

LEBLOVIC had received from Cuban students for arms and

medicines to be purchased for the Cuban rebels.

MARTINEZ stated that he has never purchased any

airplanes andmew nothing of the purchase of planes in

Toronto, Canada.

3

HW

45876 DocId: 32331962 Page 6

---

