# docid-32304046

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10285-10058

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-154290-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/31/1966

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS :

CC, MARTINEZ, CRESCENCIO JOSE MANUEL EDDIE DIAZ Y,

ASSOC, EMP, MIL, REL, ACA, CRIMINAL ACT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS : INC LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32304046

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released wit the John I. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 444 USC 2107

Hote).

DATE *II=14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM SI0.10

...

ME A 1962 EDITION

ESA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRET

TO

FROM A

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION

/66

DECLASSIFICATION AND/

SAC, MIAMI (105-10816)

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

THIS DOCUMENT ENCEPT BRACKETS

6-18-97

CRESCENCIO JOSE MANUEL

, EDDIE DIAZ Y MARTINEZ, aka

Eddie"Diaz

yaMartinez,

Eddié Caja

Balas

IS - CUBA

5241,586

Classified

Declassi

multiple borin

T849R /16/86-

le: Classe

ecDeclassify. on.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

ENREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEFT NAERE SHOWN

DERMISE

opy to: CIA/State/RAO

ONI/OSI/ACSI

by restina, slip

Date

5010-108-01

00: TAMPA

Re Tampa letter to the Bureau 8/24/66.

Enclosed are 9 copies of an LHM, dated andcaptioned

as above.

Two copies of LHM are enclosed for Tampa. One

copy is being disseminated locally

to INS, Miami•

MM T-I iS HARRY RANDALL,

CIA

(59)31

Covert, Miami (protect)

who furnished information to SA JAMES D. HAYES.

Interview of JOSE VILLALOBOS OLIVERA was conducted

by SAS JAMES D. HAYES and MAURICE F. FARABEE, Of HECTOR PEREZ

NUNEZ by SAS CLARENCE P. GRAHAM and MAURICE F. FARABEE.

Otherwise investigation was conducted by SA FArABEE.

Referenced Tampa letter indicates interview of sub-

ject was temporarily being held in abeyance pending a determi

nation whether he is involved in the investigation of Tampa

Ille 105-632 in case entitled "ANTONIO MARÇOS. CACERES, akaLS

IS - CUBA." (CACERES during a recent trip to Cuba receiveals

certain trainingby Cuban intelligence ano

(be contacted by one EDWARDO. Even though subject DIAZ wasC

allegedly in the employ of Cuban intelligence at one time,

it is the belief of the Miami Office that interview i hin

would in no way jeopardize Tampa's investigation of ANTONIO

CACERES or his operation as a double agent. Pase experienc

has indicated that fIS usually uses pseudonyms for its

intelligence agents

Tampa Division will advise Miami if that office

56685

still objects to requesting Bureau authorization to intervlew

REC. 110

Will submit FD-128

changing 00 to

Miami

4242-

NOV

4.

• 4966

Bureau

(Encs-9)

2

Tampa

(105-3095)

-2) (RM)

CLASSIFIEl

DECLASSIFY ON: 25)

Miami

3 NOV 281965505-102618

SECRET

HAN" SEE RI

EVERSE

_SIDEVOR

F49 Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Man

CIASAIFICATION

ACTIDN

10.

DocId: 32304046

Page 2

---

