# docid-32294943

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10214-10219

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-44

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: DOS

FROM: CHIEF, DIVISION OF INVESTIGATIONS

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 05/29/1958

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

SMO, ASSOC, P/P, B/F INT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 2

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/01/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF DOS

COMMENTS :

INC RPT, ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32294943

5

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

THE SECRETARY OF STATE

IUAJHIMATON 2E, D.C.

LIMTED OFFICIAL USE

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

WASHINGTON

In

reply refer to

SI/I

May 29, 1958

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

The Honorable

J. Edgar Hoover,

treet Bureau of Investigation za

Director,

EXXKOAXXHXOAXX Chief, Division

INDSCATONEX

Office of Security.

HAZIDAKIS, MIKE GEORGE

Reference is made to your communication dated 4/17/58

concerning the above-captioned

person.

in

There are attached 5 copies of report of investigation

Greece.

Overseas investigation in this case is

completed.

DoS

FLE VIE

ND BT:

ON

Мать

D 21.G 23D PANT

O TOTAL DENTAL

& FORCE

3

12/3/96

5668 sesfee

(Пк)

REC- 8

Enclosures: 16c f

5 copies Greece report 5/21/58.

(08 JUN 3 1998

5 ENCLOSURE

11

OBJUNTO 1959

2cc-Pittebregl (Info)

6/9/58 2421 eje

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

DocId: 32294943

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Reledsett miter the John I. Kemedy Assassination Records Colection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LIHTIED OFFICIAL UST

DOS

•05-818

3-, 0

DEPARTHENT OF STATE

DIVISION OF SECURITY

CASE CLASSIFICATION

Spec. Ing. /FBI

CONTROL SYMBOL.

TITLE

(5)

0v 2/4/16

PRORES DITCH

TONION AL BART

TOTAL DENLAL /

Mike GOOrgO HAZIDAKIS

REFORTING AGENT

FIELD OFFICE

SY

WHERE INVESTIGATED

Louis M. Marrano

Security Officer

DATE OF REPORT

AmEriCan Embassy,

Athens,

Greece

PERIOD COVERED

Athens, Greece

SYNOPSIS:

May 21, 1958

April 28

1958 through

day 21, 1958

SYNOPSIS

income $7,338.

Sabject owns two buildings, Piraeus, minimum valie $74, 666, annual

Karpathos.

Wife, former Kaliopi KATOUIRITO, born 1911, Menetes,

Son George, born 1939, Karpathos. Subject balieved returning

Greece within next year. Pertinent Greek and American agencies report no

derogatory information.

PREDICATION

OFFIce Memorandum frall Chief, Division of Investigations, dated

April 23, 1958.

DETAILS

Subject is known as Minast HAZIDAKIS,

son of George and Maria, bom

in 1900, in Menetes,

sarpathos. subject's wife's maiden name is Kalioni

COPIES DRUFRUIEU

suffers from a speech impediment, and wears unusually thick eyeglasses.

In

he is also receiving private tutorin.

Pirneus.

Hazidaläs

nee Eatogiritou, and son, George, are presently

residing in a tro-story building located at #77 Euripidou Street, Piraeus,

This building is owned by Subject, having been given to him as a dowry by his

The basement of the building is leased as a blackamith's shop.

wife and son.

($1,335.33), an

BICE

OF SECURMY

BE HILED

W/O IMITALS

-

SY

2

- SO, Athens

APPROVED:

92-2418-4141

Charles He Lyona

ENCLOSURE SA

walt sated tent tache

CP 0 83.9069

DocId: 32294943

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Reöords Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LATED SELLOLAL USE

Subjeet also owns another building located at #57 Sahtouri

Stroet, Firous:

This is a three story building, construction of which

tras completed in 1956

The fizet floor of the building is leased to

the following business

shops:

Ble VASSILION, Barber Shop

The KONTAX15,

Greengrocer

Othon MOJITIDIS, Bieycle Shop

Far, KYRIAKOPOULOS, Beauth Parlor

Go HE LAPTOES, Glassuare Store

aLon, KARAISKOS,.

Carpenterts Shop

Waste, FIREPPISS

Shoe Stora

Hare KARAVEVAS,

Clothing Store

Anton, INmokonIs, National lottory Dealer

The renaining two stories of the building are occupied by six

private fanilies,

The rental income from this building is 180,000

drachmass per year ($6,000).

the value of this building ls assessed

at 7, 800,000 drachnace ($50,000).

A reliable source, Director of the Greek Econome Committee, has

advised this office that the rental incones and the values of the above

mentioned buildings are about one-half to two-thirds of the actual anount,

as it is tho tendency of property onera to report a lower value and

louor income to avold paying higher taxes. Source further advised that

the above intomation concerning Subjectle financial status is classified

as "Secretl by the Great law, and requests that sources of information

zenain anonymous

Stylianos RACOSSSIS, #1 Eroderikos Street, Piraeus,

and various

policemen of tha lot Police Precinct of Fireaus were interviewed rogarding

Subjects rapubation®

Sources advised that subject le the owner of

raricas nightclubs and shops in the United States.

It is said that

Subjeet proposes to return to Athens within the peut year whore he will

retire with his fontly,

They desoribed Subjeet as a good man, and that

he,

his wile and son enjoy a good reputation in the neighborhood; they

are of sound political vious and never have given cause for complaint

Sourvos further stated that Subject's legal representative in Greece

1o Ceorge TitiONIS, who is residing in one of the apartments in Subject's

building located at #57 Sahtour Street, Piracus.

The illes of the Aliens Direstorate were reviewed and the

following information extracted:

LINE TED

OFFICIAL USE

DocId: 32294943 Page 4

---

