# docid-32292682

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10209-10458

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 45-10815-1ST NR 7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. MM

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/07/1968

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN POWER, MIRR, ACA, BOMBING, SHIPS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

12/17/1997

UPDATE DATE:

Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 45701 DocId: 32292682 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 105-2355

MIAMI EACH WEEK.

MIAMI SOURCE ONE IS

, VICE

PRESIDENT, MIAMI RADIO STATION WAB. SOURCE TWO

WESTERN UNION. SOURCE THREE IS

OTHER 4

WFO. VACB, CONTACI APPROPRIATE OFFICIALS OF

JAPANESE, MEXICAN, SPANISH, AND BRITISH EMBASSIES FOR, DETAILS

CONCERNING ANY THREATS RECEIVED FROM CUBAN POWER AND FURNISH

TO FBI LAB ANY LETTERS SUITABLE FOR LATENT FINGERPRINT AND

TYPEWRITING EXAMINATION.

MIAMI WILL BY SUBPOENA OBTAIN ORIGINALS OF MESSAGES

DELIVERED TO WESTERN UNION BY CUBAN POWER AND EXHIBIT PHOTOS

OF MEMBERS OF MIRR

:WILL CISCUSS EXTORTION ASPECIS OF THIS MATTER WITH

USA ®

•ILL SUBMIT CABLEGRAMS AND LETTERS TO FBI LAB

FOR EXAMINATION, AND CONDUCI FURTHER LOGICAL INVESTIGATION

TO OBIAIN EVIDENCE THIS MATTER •

SEPARATE CHS INVESTIGAIIONS PRESENTLY UNDERWAY RE

COMBINGS OF THREE VESSELS DESCRIBED IN CAPTION THIS TELETYPE.

AIRMAIL COPIES TO HOUSTON, MOBILE AND TAMPA.

SUCOP.

END

serged. e/s/68

to state, CIA, Defense.

CK

EXR

air toval, 2.

ELAY

AYWEDNROCEN

tire

NW 45701 DocId: 32292682

Page 2

---

