# docid-32291873

## Page 1

.. JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10208-10149

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 87-66742-153

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/03/1963

' PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

PAL, WHEREABOUTS, TRA, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

11/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NH. 45966

DocId: 32291873

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

10/3/63

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (87-66742)

FROM:

SAC, NEW YORK (87-28185) (P)

SUBJECT: CHARLES WILLIAM BRAY;

FELIX ANTONIO ALDERISIO aka -

510P32, ET AL;

Pan American Bank of Miami,

Florida - VICTIM

ITSP; MF, ITAR

(AC: UNTAME, and Fraud Section)

MIAMI)

ReMMairtel to Bureau, dated 9/27/63; CGtel to

Bureau, dated 10/1/63; and MMtel to Bureau, dated 10/2/63.

CGtel, 10/1/63, requested the NYC to place stops

with US Customs in the event ALDERISIO should leave the

country.

on 10/2/03, Mix. JOHN MC GINNITY, Agent in Charge,

Customs Agency Service,

US Treasury Department,

201 Varick

St., NYC, advised SA WAYNE S. CURTIS that US Customs has

no control over persons leaving the US for overseas

destinations. MC GINNITY added the only possible check

is through the overseas airlines leaving NYC.

3 - Bureau (AM)

2. - Chicago (87-19740) (AM) MrH

2 - Miami (87-16480) (AM)

1 - New York

WSC: amc .

(9)

87-66742-153

03T *

loud

303 176

Approved:

Special Ageht in Charge

HW 45966 DocId: 32291873

Page 2

Sent

157.

CONTAINLO

MASS NO ASSIFIED

DATE 1/23/86 BY spEculas

---

## Page 3

NY 87-28185

Mr: MILTON CAINE, Public Relations Department,

International Airport, advised there are 20 foreign

overseas

airlines and

2 American airlines making approximately

100 overseas flights from NYC in a 24 hour period.

PCI

Americana Hotel, 53rd

and Ith Ave., NYC, advised SA WILLIAM D. KANE on 19/2/63,

that a check of the hotel registrations did not contain

a registration for ALDERISIO.

Mr. AL CANEPA, Security Officer, Belmont Plaza

Hotel, 49th and Lexington Ave.m NYC, advised SA WAYNE

S. CURTIS that a check of the hotel registration records

failed to reflect a registration for ALDERISIO.

Mrs. EVA KELLNER, 111 East 56th St., Apt. 802,

was contacted telephonically by SA WAYNE S. CURTIS on •

10/3/62, in an attempt to arrange an appointment to interview

Dr. MAXWELL KELLNER.

Mrs. KELLNER stated her husband

was asleep and not fealing well at the present time.

Mrs. KELLNER was very uncooperative and declined to talk

to the FBI or anyone else.

NY will continue to check hotels where ALDERISIO

has registered in the past, and contact NYO sources

acquainted with the activities of ALDERISIO.

ALDERISIO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS

SINCE HE IS ALLEGED TO CARRY A GUN IN A SHOULDER HORSTER.

MPRAFDICANTE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS DUE

DO HIS PAST ASSOCIATION IN CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES.

OTHER 4

-2-

NW 45966 DocId:32291873 Page 3

---

