# docid-32301203

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10278-10038

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2914-258

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

02/05/1962

3

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

HW 45852 DocId: 32301203 Page 1

19

---

## Page 2

+ *

2/7/62

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

SAC, Pittsburgh (92-236) (92-228)

Director, FBI (92-2914) - (92-2918)

REC- 115

GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka.

SANUEL MANNARINO, aka.

"56

XI GRIIE ANDO CHOGUWLAN

Reurairtel 2/5/62.

Philadelphia immediately make proper arrangements

PennsyLvania, for SA Thonas G.

Upon completing

arrangements advise Pittshurgh of details and when SA Forsyth

should appear.

This interview should be accomplished as soon as

possible, and Pittsburgh is to promptly furnish the Bureau

the results obtained.

2 - Pittsburgh

2 - Philadelphia (92-558)

OTHER

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr.

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach.

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Teles Room

Inaram

- Gandy

FEB

14196

MAIL ROOM

NOTE:

Department Attorney William Kehoe requested that SA Forsyth,

who apparently has the confidence of

interview him

in an effort to further prosecutive action against the subjects.

, MAILED 20,

FEB 9 - 1962

COMM-FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 45852 DocId: 32301203 Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

"FBI

Date:

2/5/62

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson..

Mr. Belmont:

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrac

Mr.

Mr. Deang

Mr.

Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel.

Mr. Troiter

Tele. Room.

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228) (P)

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, aka;

AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka.;

AR

On 2/2/62 Departmental Attorney WILLIAM KEHOE, currently

conducting a FGJ in Pittsburgh to inquire into the activities

of the MANNARINOs and their associates, advised SA THOMAS G.

FORSYTH, III as follows:

aka

who was convicted

for his participation in the case captioned

I "STUART SUTOR,

et al; TGP; ITSP; FFA; NM; CONSPIRACY, " and is currently

incarcerated in the Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg, Pa taking

is very unhappy. While his convicted co-defendants are

heir imprisonments in the best possible spirits; [

ecomes increasingly unsettled. Although

I was an

unfaithful spouse,

he was always a doting father, and the

forced separation

from his only son, a ten year old, grieves

him greatly.

was arrested during the IRS raid on the MANNARINO

norse room-gambling casino on 8/24/61, KEHOE noted that

would not talk with anyone connected with the Federal

Government until he was brought into the Federal Building,

Pittsburgh

to await his turn at a USC hearing. At that

time,

was observed by KEHOE to leave his associates

approach SA

FORSYTH who was present merely as an observer, anal

it was noted that.

at length with SA FORSYTH.

It is KEHOE's feeling that L

'if he were so inclined,

could make an excellent witness against the MANNARINOs and

KEHOE feels he should be interviewed with this purpose

in mind at the earliest possible date + 22/1

KEHOE requested, that

Bureau

- Philadelphia (92-558) (info)

IF R

4

- Pittsburgh

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45852 DocId: 32301203 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Co

PG 92-236

SA FORSYTH go to Federal Penitentiary, Lewisburg,

to conduct the interview, rather than have it conducted

by a SA from the Philadelphia Division, because SA FORSYTH

is thoroughly conversant with all aspects of the MANNARINO

investigations and has established a speaking relationship with

_which now might prove effectual in persuading

to cooperate.

It is ested that Kuld indicated that he might have a "deal"

to offer should l

decide to cooperate with the

Government against the MANNARINOS. At this juncture, KEHOE

was advised that SA FORSYTH could

not take any part in

the nature of the inducement KEHOE would offer I

discussions concerning any deals and didimt even want to hear

ana vote ben every to e orsuade to tao operato,

and would bend every effort to persuade |

by some other means and

KEHOE replied that he understood and would, at the

appropriate time, make his own arrangements.

Bureau permission is therefore requested for SA FORSYTH

to travel to rederal penitentiary, Levisburg, Pa., and.

to interview

2

NN 45852 DocId: 32301203 Page 4

OTHER 4

---

