# docid-32989578

## Page 1

File #:

662-116395

Serial Scope:

13606

1367

1369

1371 THRU 1374

1379

1381

1384 THR211393

1400,1400X

1402,1403

Released under the John

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

444 05C 2107 Notel.

Case#:NM 55149 Date:

11-18-2017

NH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 1

---

## Page 2

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 1 9 1976

TO :

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Counsel Division

Ederal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Steven K. Blackhurst

SB Assistant Special Counsel fox

Intelligence Coordination

Senstuly

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

Attached is a letter from the SSC dated

February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriat

response.

P2oage arrange for an appropriate co

MDR 16

ALI, FET INDORMATION CONTAINED

TORMIT IS UNCLASSI

57107 REC86 2-116395-14033

CD FEB 28 1976

cc:

Paul Daly

SMS

100 17 3*4:

41,.

VINT

8 $ MAR 20048762989578

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEB 1 9 1976

IO: John A, Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Steven K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request Dated February 19, 1976

Attached is a letter from the sSC dated

February 19, 1976. Please arrange for an appropriate

Iesponse.

MDR 16

AUT HELIZORLUNHON CONTAINED

CE:

Paul Daly

HW 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page

---

## Page 4

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP•R. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, J

ENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, XY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAIL, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAN: G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

LUNIS NO SMOTHERS MINOMIT COUNSEL

@nited Biates Benate.

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO 5. RES. 21, 84TH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 19, 1976

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Esg.

Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination

Office of the Deputy Attorney General

U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Mike:

The Select Committee requests delivery of cer-

tain materials pertaining to the Secret Army Organization

and the role of an FBI informant therein, which materials

have been identified 'to the FBI by Mr. Sam Bouchard of

the Committee staff..

Sincerely,

Jore to Ellife

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

MDR 16

'ALI FBI INTORMATION CONTAINED

SIERSHIN IS UNCLASSINED

DATAL 8/0005 SP 2 ALMi/EHL

HH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 4

62-116395-1403

pATI ASURE

---

## Page 5

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 1 7 1976

w.R.Warnalf?/16/96.zhtailSntere

JPH

FROM:

SB

SUBJEC:

TO :

J

hn A.

Mintz, Assistant Director

gal Counsel Division

ederal Bureau of Invespigation

Steven

K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel för

Intelligence Coordination

SSC Letter Dated February 17, 1976

insteady

Attached is a letter from the SSC indicating

that the Committee will make available for review

by persons from the Department those draft reports

which relate to activities by the Department. The

purpose of that review would be to identify any

classification or similar problems in the draft re-

ports.

Two draft reports are presently ready for

review.

Please designate appropriate persons from

the

Bureau to review these reports and to advise the

Committee as to classification or similar problems.

Bot Kelly tosse

ENCLOSURE

REC-50.

ST-101

MDR

16

62-116-395-1403 en

Make De

80 FEB 26 1976

ALL, FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

CC:

Paul Daly

ovi.

allar renan

HH 55149

MAR Go: 19782989578 Page 5

---

## Page 6

..

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Fedoral Burcau of Investigation

FROM:

Steven K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

SUBJICI: SSC Letter Dated February 17, 1976

Attached is a letter fron the SSC Indicating

that the Connittee will make available for review

by persons from the Dopartment those draft reports

which relate to activities by the Department. The

purpose of that review would be to identify any

classification or sinilar problems in the draft re-

ports. Iwo draft reports are presently ready for

roview.

Please designate appropriate persons from the

Bureau to revier these reports and to advise the

Committee as to classification or similar problems.

MDR 16

AIGIDE IT ORDIROM CONCIED

cc: Paul Daly

CHH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JUY, TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORZAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

LInited Siates Genote

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES, 21, SITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 17, 1976

Michael Shaheen, Jr.

Counsel

Office of Professional Responsibility•

Department of Justice (Room 4313)

Washington, D.C.

Dear Mike:

This will confirm our telephone conversation con-

cerning the procedure whereby we will make available to

you, or your designee, copies of draft reports relating

to the Justice Department.

As we discussed, the pur-

pose is so that any classification (or other such

problems, e.g., the identity of informers) which may be

inadvertently raised in our reports can be identified.

The first two drafts relating to the FBI are ready.

They are:

1. "The Use of Informers in FBI Domestic

Investigations"; and

2. "Domestic CIA and FBI Mail Opening Programs"

(Substantial portions of which relate to the

FBI.)

I would appreciate it if someone very promptly could con-

tact Frederick D. Baron, my assistant (224-1746), who

will arrange the details of location and time for the

review.

Sincerely yours,

MDR 16

Frederick A. o

Schwarz, JI.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

EBREIN TA UNOLASSUELIH

DD BY, SPa ALInEHL

62-1162.85=140

ENCLESUNG

RECEIVED

FEB 1'9 1976

HH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 7

---

## Page 8

MDR 166

February 12, 197AL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SENT' FROM D. O.

-17-76

SAS

TIME

DATE

BY

Assoc- Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD In

Asse. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syse. -

Exr. Affairs

Files & Com..

Gon. Inv...

Ident.

imagine

Kosta

Laboratory

Legal Coun.

Pien. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

• Training -

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sac y

MAIL ROOM

84 APR 1619792985010

William H.

lawrence:

4 Swiss Pine- Lake- Drive

pruce Pine, North Carolina

28777

Dear Bill:

sensterdly

3 To ta late

Thank you very much-for the two-letters you sent

est 1903e

to Jim Adams about the remarks made by Senator Morgan.

1 nave seen him brietly since he mace these remarks ano

plaz to see nim next week again to talk over the reason for

these remarks at some length. As noted in his response to

you, apparently he has come to this feeling as a result of the

so-called "unchallenged" matters which he has had reported

to him as a member of the Senate Select Committee. It is

true that some mistakes of the Bureau were brought out, but

the over-all performance of the Bureau has, as you said, been

well above that which could even be expected of us and cer-

tainly has been most contributory to the saiety of this nation

inroighout the years,

To categorize us as " rotten to the corg"

and to indicate that we are a great threat to the United States

miss the mark tremendously and are completely without foun-

dation." I will so inform him, but apparently he has made up

his mind and there is little likellhood that we will have a

convert

Again, thank you and I hope that you persist in your ou

efforts to come to our support when our credibility has been

attacked

62-116395=14001

NOT RECORDED Sincerely,

46 APR 14 19785/ Clarence

19. 1976

CMK: ELM, (3)

* TELETYPE UNSE

MAN.

Page 8

SHITIALE ON ORIGINAL

Copy made for Correst

anioraly's Section

1/26

GPO: 1975 0 - 594-120

---

## Page 9

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG, NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr!

J. B. Adams

DATE: February 12, 1976

Assoc. Dir

Dop. AD/XaN

Dep. IAD int.

Asst, Dir.:

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Filos & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

SUBJECT

SENSTUDY 75

Spec. Iny. -

Training

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

Special Prosecutor on Intelligence Abuses."

Legal Counsel.

As you may recall, in a November 28, 1975,

memorandum from the Director, FBI,

General, Office of Legislative Affairs, captioned "Watergate

Reorganization and Reform Act of 1975, s.495, 94th Congress,

Ist Session," we deferred to the Department the question of

whether there should be a special prosecutor as envisioned

by that bill.

On Friday, February 6, 1976, the Attorney

General, of the United States testified begoney cenerate

coated he did not agree with senator Church,

is proposal

that a special prosecutor.

should be appointed to investigate

past activities of the CIA and the FBI.

RECOMMENDATION:

For information.

ToT PEC5062-912395

- 1400

1 - Mr. Wannall

1

- Mr. Cregar

- Mr.

Moore

1

1

- MI.

Mintz

- Mr.

Daly

1 - Mr. Miller

JDM: mcz

(8) 573

84 MAR 1 1976

НН 55149 DooId:32989578

Page 9

MOR I

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REIN/NA SPEARM /41

COUNSEL

---

## Page 10

PLAINTEXT

TELETYPE

NITEL

2-23-76

- Mr. Walsh

- Mr. Mintz

- Mr. Wannall

- Mr. Cregar

- Mr. Hotis

Mr. Daly

TO SAC

BOSTON

MDR 16

FROM DIRECTOR

• FBI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

SENSTUDY 75

DATE 11/8/0D BY SP3 ALm/EH

REBUCAL 2-23-76.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE HAS REQUESTED THAT

SA FRANCIS T. LEONARD BE MADE AVAILABLE IN WASHINGTON, D. C..

FOR INTERVIEW BY THAT COMMITTEE ON 2-25-76. THE INTERVIEW

WILL CONCERN HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE BUREAU'S INVESTIGATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, AND STANLEY DAVID LEVISON. SA LEONARD

SHOULD ARRANGE TO ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON IN TIME TO BE

REG-50

62-

6325-23

23

BRIEFED BY REPRESENTATIVES OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION

NO FEB 21 1976g

AND INTELLIGENCE DIVISION AT 9:00 A.M., 2-25-76, IN

ROOM 3658, JEH BUILDING.

SI 104

"EDERAL BUREAU OF INVESIISELL R

SOMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEN 2 & 1978

! - Personnel File SA Francis T.. Leonard

1000P SS

TELETYPE

NOTE: Michael Epstein,-Senate Select Committee staff

member, made the request for the interview of Leonard.

This communication will serve as approval for the waiver

of existing employment agreement signed by SA Leonard for

purposes of this interview.

Referenced phone callialerted

ASẠC Richard Strain of this request.

HER S3 DOD LIAIR

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection -

Intell.

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. -

PVD: dkg (10)

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec"y

MAIL ROOM

445PE8 2 50474 32989578

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 10

pur

070: 178%

---

## Page 11

=

98U3RDD

ALL

La!

HEnch.

DATE

^

Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - MI. P. V. Daly)

PLAINTEXT

TELETYPE

NITEL

1 - MI. W. R. Wannall

TO SAC SALI LAKE CITY

FEBRUARY 23, 1976

FROM DIRECTOR FBI (62-116395)

1 - MI. J. G. Deegan

1 ~ MI.

W. 0. Cregar

SENSTUDY 75.

1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

REBUTEL MAY 2, 1975.

THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC) HAS REQUESTED THAT

FORMER SPECIAL AGENT (SA) STEVEN I. CHRISTENSEN BE MADE AVAIL-

ABLE FOR STAFF INTERVIEW CONCERNING HIS KNOWLEDGE OF THE

SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION. BUREAU RECORDS INDICATE LAST KNOTN

ADDRESS FOR THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE TO BE POST OFFICE BOX 2,

KANOSH, UTAH.

SAC OR ASAC, SALT LAKE CITY, IS REQUESTED TO PERSONALLY

CONTACT FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN AND ADVISE HIM OF SSC DESIRE TO

INTERVIEW HIM. HE SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT, IF SSC INITIATES

CONTACT, FORMER SA CHRISTENSEN BEFORE CONSENTING TO INTERVIEW

SHOULD CONTACT BUREAU'S LEGAL COUNSEI DIVISION BY COLLECT CALL

TO BE ADVISED OF HIS RIGHTS, THE PARAMETERS OF THE PROPOSED

INTERYLEV AND TO SECURE A RELIASE FRON HIS CONFIDENTIALINE YO

183 21 376

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. _

Ident. -

Inspection

TJM: 1hb |hb

(9)

Intell.

Laboratory

Legal Coun. -

Plan. & Eval. _

Spec. Inv. _

Training -

Telephone Rm. _

Director Sec'y

MAIL ROOM

G8 4FEB251976989578

SAN DIEGO (AIRMAIL)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTICATIO 1

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

F2828 1978

EMS.

530841

TELETYPE

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 11

SEE NOTE PAGE 2'*

GPO: 1975 0 - 59

---

## Page 12

==

PAGE THO

62-116395

AGREEMENT, HEADQUARTERS SHOULD BE ADVISED BY TELETYPE

AFTER FORMER SA. CHRISTENSEN HAS BEEN CONTACTED IN LINE

WITH THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS. IF THIS FORMER EMPLOYEE NO

LONGER RESIDES IN THE SALT LAKE CITY TERRITORY OR IS

TEMPORARILY AVAY, A LEAD, FOLLOWING THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS,

SHOULD BE SENT TO APPROPRIATE OFFICE IMMEDIATELY WITH A

COPY OF THE COMMUNICATION DESIGNATED FOR HEADQUARTERS.

COPY AIRMAILED TO SAN DIEGO.

NOTE:

Referenced Bureau teletype 5/2/75 was a general

instruction to all SAC's concerning the SSC inquiry into

this Bureau'soperations and this Bureau's cooperation with

that body, Former SA Christensen was the handling Agent

for former Bureau informant Howard Berry Godfrey, who

furnished this Bureau considerable information concerning

the Secret Army Organization (SAO). Bureau investigation

of the SAO has recently been receiving considerable publicity

in the San Diego press.

NW 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 12

---

## Page 13

Kito

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

*- MAY 1962 DITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27'

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Assoc. Dir. c

1 - Мx.J.B.

Adams

Dep. AD Adm. -

Memorandum

2 - Mr. J.

Dop. AD Inv. -

A. Mintz (1 - Mx •Asst. Dir.:

Hotis)

Admin. -

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

Comp. Syst. —

Mr.

W.

WannallW

DATE:

Ext. Affairs -

2/17/76

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

: R.

ackeliorallS

- Mr.

R. L. Shackelford

Inspection

J.

G. Deegan

Intell. _ed

1

- Mr.

S.

S.

Mignosa

Laboratory

1

- Mx.

Cassidy

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

SENSTUBY 75..

F.

W.

J.

- Mr.

0.

Cregar

Training -

- Mr.

T. J. McNiff

Legal Coun. _

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

PURPOSE:

No nevise that lenate Select Comittoe (SSC) Frecutive

Session was held on 2/13/76, where the role of the FBI in past

"domestic intelligence investigations" as well as the role that

the FBI should play in intelligence type investigations of

domestic subversive organizations in the luture was discussed..

SSC requested copy of instructions sent to field by FBIHO

regarding Privacy Act matters which has a bearing on

investigations of domestic groups.

DETAILS:

heierence is made to Cregar to Mr. Wannall memorandu

dated 2/9/76, concerning SSC Executive Session held on 2/6/73

at which time it was decided that an additional Ixecutive Session

would be held at

a future date, regarding

"domestic intelligence

investigations."

An SSC Executive Session was held from approximately

10:55 a.m., until 12:45 p.m., 2/13/76. Representing the SSC

inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Hunter.

- 315-1394

Section Chieis Joseph G. Deegan and Robert I. Shackelory rece

the Intelligence Division and Inspector John B. Hotis la FEB 24 1976

Legal Counsel Division.

At the outset of the Session, Mr. Schwartz explained

that this was a continuation of the Executive Session on 2/6/76

in an effort to assist the SSC in drafting legislation outlining

the Bureau's responsibility for domestic intelligence investiga-

tions which goes

beyond ciminal investigations.

He noted

that at the closing of the past Executive Session,

Mr. Shackelford had stated the Communist Party, USA (CPUSA)

62-116395

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

GJL:rSm

(11)

CONTINUED - OVER

9

84 FEB 2 5 1976

55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

and the Socialist Workers Party (SWP) had been involved in

planning or organizing numerous large demonstrations in the

country and he desired to continue this discussion. A list of

major demonstrations with resulting damages and arrests which

occurred in the U.S. during the past ten years involving

subversive groups was furnished by Mr. Shackelford. A

discussion followed regarding the role of the FBI in gathering

intelligence information concerning the demonstrations as well

as the dissemination of the information which had been obtained.

Mx. Schwartz questioned the authority of the FBI in investigating

infiltrated groups such as the National Peace Action Coalition

(NPAC) and the Peoples Coalition for Peace and Justice (PCPJ)

even though both groups were either dominated or influenced'

by the CPUSA or the sip.

A discussion then followed as to what effect the

enactment of the Privacy Act has on the investigation by the

FBI of domestic subversive groups. A request was made

concerning instructions which have been sent to the field by

IBIHO concerning this matter.

The Session then turned to investigation of extremist

groups and the use of informants in these groups to obtain

place informants into these extremist groups without the

ingredient of violence present.

This Executive Session was adjourned at approximately

12:45 p.m. and no request was made at that time for another

Executive

Session.

OBSERVATIONS:

From statements made by Mr. Schwartz and other SSC

Stalt menbers present, with the possible exception of Mr. Mark

Gitenstein, it appeared that these individuals continue to be

opposed to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations in the

domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violence is

imminent. Mr. Gitenstein in his discussion concerning the use

- 2 -

1H 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 14

---

## Page 15

a. 34

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

of informants in extremist groups appeared to want to

Include in the record acts of violence which have been

prevented because of infiltration by informants in these

groups. It does appear, therefore, that he may be more

favorably inclined towards the Bureau's position in these

matters.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the SSC Unit, Intelligence Division, communicate

with a member of the SSC staff regarding Privacy

• Act material

and/or instructions desired by the Committee.

filen

puM

- 3

-

MH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page

15

---

## Page 16

"..

REC-100

This document is prepared in response to

your request and is not for dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use

¿ tried to official proceedings

by

your Committee and the content may

be disilosed to unauthorized

person.

nel without the express approval of

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst.-

Ext. Affairs -

Filos & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

55149

-116545-13

The Attorney General

1 - Mr. J. B. Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

December 19, 1975

Director, FBI

U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

1 - Mr. H. E. Helgeson

1 - Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr.

J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr.

T. J. Seabaugh

1 - Mr. J. D. Powell

This is to call to your attention a most serious

breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded the

material and information that this Bureau has furnished to

the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

Enclosed

for your approval and delivery, preferably to SSC Chairman

Senator Frank Church personally, is a memorandum which sets

forth this incident in detail for the SSC, states the

seriousness with which this matter is viewed and which

requests the SSC to advise whether they did, in fact,

publicly disclose the identity of former FBI informant

George F. Dorsett as alleged and if so, the basis for such

disclosure.

OF ENCI, FILED IN

COPY

COPY AND

George F. Dorsett was an FBI informant from

January, 1959, to October, 1970. He was discontinued as an

Informant shen uts activity in the klan ceased, at which time

his relationship with the Bureau continued to be excellent.

He

has not been disclosed publicly as an FBI informant. Dorsett did

in fact separate from the United Klans of America (UKA) and

form the Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (CKKKK) . He

formed the CKiKK on his own initiative; however, we utilized

this opposing Klan organization through Dorsett as a means

of disrupting and causing confusiond dissension within the

Klan.

Enclosures

(2)

melter

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINCE

DATENS NOISED

BY SPaALM/ENL

62-116395

I - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention: Michael L. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

1 - Charlotte

1 - 137-4853

JDP: lek (16) 12/

MAIL ROOM L

TELETYPE UNIT

Page

16

3

PE

SEE NOTE PAGE 3

SEE NOT

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

NiT

DELIVERED TO SSE.

---

## Page 17

The Attorney General

The handling agent assisted Dorsett in

preparing a letter announcing his resignation from the UKA

and his formation of the CKKKK.

This letter invited Dorsett's

friends in the Klan to join him in the CKKKK. A total of

41 chapters of the CKKKK were chartered; however, all of them

did not become effective operating chapters.

The documents delivered to the SSC were excised to

delete Dorsett's name as an informant. Charlotte airtel dated

Lugust 22, 1967, and C. D. Brennan memorandum to W. C. Sullivan

dated August 24, 1967, set forth the recommendation and

approval for the nailing of a letter from Dorsett to all Klan

units in North Carolina announcing his resignation from the UKA

and the formation of the CKKKK. Dorsett's name is deleted fron

these documents; however, it is clear that the informant was

preparing the letter. Charlotte airtel to the Director

September 13, 1967, refers to the August 22, 1967, Charlotte

airtel and states that the referenced airtel recommended Bureau

approval for a letter to be mailed over the signature of

Reverend George F. Dorsett under the above conditions. Dorsett's

name is not deleted fron this document. From the above

documents Dorsett's Identity can readily be established as the

FBI informant.

In the December 6, 1975, issue of the "Charlotte

Observer"' a daily Charlotte, North Carolina, morning

newspaper there is a front page article captioned "FBI Started

41 North Carolina Klan Units, Morgan Says." In this article,

North Carolina Senator Robert Morgan, momber of the SSC, saic

the FBI organized 41 KKK units in North Carolina during the 1960's

as part of its campaign against the white supremacist group.

Morgan was also quoted as saying, "The vast majority of

people in the Klan in North Carolina were law-abiding eitizens.

- 2 -

HW 55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 17

---

## Page 18

The Attorney General

There may have been some violence, but we're not even sure

about that now." Morgan is further quoted as saying, "There

is nothing basically wrong with having an informer in any

organization but when these informers do more than just listen,

Klaverns.

As set forth in the enclosed memorandum, Mr. Dorsett

was intervlewed on December 12, 1975, by Charlotte, North

Carolina, FbI Agents at which time he expressed his concern

for his personal safety and for his family as well, as well as

concern for the safety of his personal property,

As stated above this matter is considered to be a

most serious breach of the confidentiality that must be afforded

the material and Information that this Bureau has furnished to

the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. It is

respectfully requested that the enclosed memorandum be

delivered to Senator Frank Church, Chairman of the SSC,

personally. Please advise what action is taken concerning

this matter.

NOTE:

10

COUNSEL FOR

OF DAG

See Memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R. Wannall,

• DELIUERED

PER STEVEN SPECIAL

BLACKHURST INTELLIGENCE

DEP

USD3,

-3 -

HH 55149 Do0Id:32989578

Page 18

---

## Page 19

. €

62-116395

MDR

16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE

1 - Mr. J. B.

Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

1 - Mr. H. E. Helgeson

December 19, 1975

1 - Mr. W. 0. Cregar

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL, OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr. T. J. Seabaugh

1 - Mr. J. D. Powell

This is to call attention to the following incident

which is a most serious breach of the confidentiality that must

be afforded the material and information that this Bureau has

,furnished to the U. S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence:

The December 10, 1975, issue of the "Greensboro Daily

News," Greensboro, North Carolina, contains on page one an

article captioned "Greensboro Man

| Named As FBI Klan Informant,"

by Jack Betts, Daily News Washington Bureau. The article

states in part:

"Washington - A Greensboro man long active in the

Ku Klux Klan has been identified as an informant for the

Federal Bureau of Investigation's campaign to disrupt the

KKK in North Carolina during the latter 1960's.

"A Senate Intelligence Committee source said Tuesday

that George F. Dorsett, former Imperial Kludd (National Chaplain)

of the United Klans of America, was a paid FBI informant who,

with the FBI's assistance, broke away from the Klan in 1967 to

form a rival group.

"The source said Dorsett was named in FBI documents

obtained by the committee as the man whom the bureau had

recruited to spy on the United Klan.

1 - Charlotte

1 - 137-4853 (George F. Dorsett)

JDP: lek (15) |eK

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM L

1Н 55149 DoOId:32989578

.,2-

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 19

11375

-1300

ENCLOSURE

SEE NOTE PAGE 5

SEE NOTE PES

GPO: 1975 0.- 569-920

---

## Page 20

RE: U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT

TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

"FBI documents obtained by the comnittee indicate

that Dorsett, who was disenchanted with KKK Grand Dragon

J. Robert Jones of Granite Quarry and with Imperial Wizard

Robert Shelton of Tuscaloosa, Ala., was encouraged by the FBI

to leave the Klan in the summer of 1967 and form the

Confederate Knights ofthe Ku Klux Klan. The FBI helped

Dorsett draft letters recruiting for the new group, according

to the committee source.

"According to the documents, the FBI's plan was to

harass the KKK and to dilute the influence of the United Klans

and to keep closer tabs on the new group.

"Sen. Robert Morgan, D. N.C., a member of the

committee said last week that charters

for some 41 new Klaverns

or chapters of the Confederate Klan were issued, but that not

all charters resulted in active new Klan groups."

A review of materiel delivered to the staff of the

Committee has determined that Committee Staff Member Barbara

Banoff accepted on August 28, 1975, copies of 212 serials

releting to White Hate matters under the COINTELPRO requests

of the Committee.

The following documents were included

among these 212 seriels:

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated May 9, 1967. (157-9-8-100)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated May 31, 1967. (157-9-8-102)

- 2 -

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 20

---

## Page 21

RE:

U.S. SENATE SELFCT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

GOVERMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT

TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Airtel from SAC, Birmingham, to Director, FBI,

dated June 14, 1967. (157-9-8-107)

Airtel from Director, FBI, to SACs, Charlotte,

Atlanta and Bizmingham, dated June 20, 1967. (157-9-8-110)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated June 14, 1967• (157-9-8-110)

Alrtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated June 28, 1967• (157-9-8-115)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated June 23, 1967. (157-9-8-113)

Airtel from Director, FBI, to SACs, Atlanta

and Charlotte, dated June 29, 1967. (157-9-8-114)

Airtel from Director, FBI, to SAC, Charlotte,

dated August 25, 1967• (157-9-8-126)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated

August 22, 1967, (157-9-8-126)

Memorandun from C. D. Brennan to Mr. W. C. Sullivan,

dated August 24, 1967, (157-9-8-127)

Airtel from SAC, Charlotte, to Director, FBI,

dated September 13, 1967. (157-9-8-128)

All of the above communications are captioned

"Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security, Disruption

of Hate Groups (United Klans of America, Inc., North Carolina)."

= 3 -

H 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 21

---

## Page 22

RE: U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

GOVERHMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT

TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Letter from SAC, Cherlotte, to Director, FBI,

captioned ' Counterintelligence Program, Internal Security,

Disruption of Hate Groups (Confederate Knights of the Ku

Klux Klan), Charlotte Division," dated January 30, 1969.

(157-9-8-151rtel from Director, FBI, to SAC, Charlotte,

ceptioned "Counterintelligence Program, Disruption of Hate

Groups, Internel Security, lacirl Matters (klan)," dated

September 25, 1967• (157-9-8-129)

A careful reading and comperison of these documents

would lead to the identity of Dorsett as an FBI informent in

the manner described in the above article. The factual materiel

set forth in the article is contained in the above documents.

It is noted thet the documents as delivered to the Committee

do not identify Mr. Dorsett as an FBI informent; however, his

identity can be deduced from the combined documents. Our

records do not indicate that Mr. Dorsett's identity as an

informant has been disclosed in any other manner. MI. Dorsett

was interviewed by FBI Agents of the Charlotte, North Carolina,

FBI Office on December 12, 1975. Mr. Dorsett stated that

he felt "betrayed" by his

government concerning the public

disclosure in the news media of his identity as en FBI source.

He recalled that he had always been assured that his identity

I would always remein confidentirl and known only to the FBI.

He further stated

that as a result of the public disclosure of

his identity as an FBI source in the "Greensboro Daily News"

on December 10, 1975, he has experienced great consternation

among his close frlends and members of his family. He her

received harassing telephone calls. During one of these calls

the caller stated, "Tell that pimp to get his casket ready."

Mr. Dorsett expressed his concern for the personal safety

of himself and members of his family, es well as concern for

the safety of his residence and personal property.

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 22

---

## Page 23

FE: U.S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE TO STUDY

GOVERNMENTAL, OFERATIONS VITH RESPECI

TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

The disclosure of the identity of FBI informants

places these informants' lives in serious jeopardy as well

as subjecting them and their families to the likelihood of

embarrassment and harassment within their communities.

Such disclosures have a most serious and detrimental effect

on other infomants, who have just cause to question the

security of their past or present association with the FBI.

Fersons who might otherwise be inclined to furnish information

to the FBI, expecting their cooperation to be kept in

1 :

confidence, are reluctant to do so when they see such

violations

of the sanctity of FBI files and information.

The TBI has endeavored to cooperate fully and

candidly in making available to the Comittee the documents

and infornation requested by the Cormittee. We have

insisted that the confidentiality of informants be

maintained.

In view of this most serious breach of the

confidentiality of information furnished by the FBI to the

Committee and in an effort to determine the nature of it,

you are requested to advisé whether the U. S. Senate Sclect

Gormittee on Intelligence or any member or staff member thereof,

is responsible for the public disclosure of former FBI

informent George F. Dorsett as alleged and if so, the basis for

such disclosure.

1 - The Attorney General

NOTE:

See memorandum J. G. Deegan to MT.

W. R. Wannall

SPECIAL

COiNSEL

TELLIGENGE CHORDINATION

SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

TYLER

---

## Page 24

5010-106

Mr.

W.

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Will

Assoc. Dir.

1

Wannall

FROM

W. 0.

Cregar VUTAM

~ Mr. J. B. Adams

2 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W.

R. Wannall

DATE:

2/13/76

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore

1

- Mr.

W.

0. Gregar

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.-

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

maiction

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

SUBJECT:U. S.

Spec. Inv..

SEM

ATE

SELECT COMMITTEE (SSC)

Training -

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm.

Director Sec'y

By memorandum dated 12/19/75, you were advised of

a serious

breach of confidentiality in the handling of FBI

documents that had been delivered to the SSC. This memorandum

detailed the disclosure in the North Carolina press of former

FBI Intormant George F. Dorsett

specifically attributed

the disclosure to Bureau, documents delivered to the SSC,

memorandum also enclosed a memorandum for delivery to SSC

Chairman Senator Frank Church detailing the above incident.

(Copies of both memoranda are

attached).

In view of the Director's scheduled conference 2/17/76,

with Senator Robert Morgan of North Carolina, who is a member

of the SSC, efforts were made on 279/76 to determine whether

above memorandum had been delivered to Senator Church. It was

ascertained that the memorandum had not, been delivered but that

the Deputy Attorney General then had the matter under considera-

tion.

COPY FILED

On 21326, Steven Blackhurst, Assistant Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,

Department of Justice,

advised that the Deputy Attorney eneral had, that morning,

Instructed that the Department beth in the above monorandum

a letter to Senator Church

dea had the prepared by the bureau tor delivery to senator

UNHE

disclosures in the future.

communication Is being designated for the Bureau but

did not know whether the commica nec sould reach le ree

51340

prior to the Director's meeting with Senator Morgan

approval, he will telephonically advise Bureau.

Enclosures

2D FEB 24 1976

62-116395

ST, 104,

TJM: m]g N

(9)

DR 16

CONTINUED - OVER

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN ISUNCLASSIFIEO

84168251976=

DATE a

18100 SYSPRASMEH

MH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page 24

---

## Page 25

..

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

62-116395

S. Senate Select Committee (SSG)

ACTION:

None. Above is submitted for information.

gon

pus

-

2

1N 55149 DocId:32989578

Page 25

---

## Page 26

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. _

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

ldent. —

Inspection _

Intell.

Laboratory _

Plan. & Eval. _

Spoc. Inv. _

Troining _

Legal Coun. -

Telophone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

MAIL ROOM

ФF2B 20549762989578

- Mr.

B. Adems

12 = lir.

A. luntz

(1

ST.

J. B. Hotic)

1 - Ir. W.

R. Wannall

1 - Ir. V'. U. Cregar

CODE

TELETYPE

NITEL

TO SACS BUTTE

MINNEAPOLIS

SEATTLE

FEBRUARY 19, 1976

FROM DIRECIOR FBI (62-116395)

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1

-MT.

T.

J. McNiff

1 - Mr. J. F. Graham

SENSTUDY 75

BY LETTER DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1976, THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE (SSC) REQUESTED THAT ARRANGEMENIS BE MADE FOR SSC

STAFF MEMBERS TO INTERVIEN FBI PERSONNEL WHO AUTHORED CERTAIN

CGUNTERINTELLIGENCE PRUGRAM (COINTELPRO) DOCUMENTS RELATING TO

ALLEGED FBI INVOLVIMENT IN "CANG WAR"' BETWEEN THE BLACK PANTHER,

PARTY (BPP) AND THE US ORGANIZATION.

THESE PERSONS ANE:

BUTTE DIVISION - SPECIAL AGENT (SA) ROX L. BURNS, ASSIGNED TO

BILLINGS, MONTANA, RESIDENT AGENCY, (DOCUMENTS AUTHORED WHILE

ASSIGNED SAN DIEGO) ;

MINNLAPOLIS DIVISION - ASSISTANT SPECIAL, AGENT IN CHARGE (ASAC)

WILLIAM D. NEUMANY, (DOCUMENTS AUTHORED WHTLE ASSIGNED PBE 1389

HRADQUARTERS (FBIHQ) ;

FX-116

REC-50 102-15 32Nes

FEDERAL

DE FEB 28 1976

COMPERIA

JPG: eks els

(10)

FER 1: 1973

MDR He

Ens 03p

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

TELETYPE

MEREN

UNCLASSIFIET

DATE L8/00

BY SPRALINETN

"SEE NOTE PAGE 3

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 26

GPO: 197

569-920

---

## Page 27

PACE 2

SEAITLE DIVISION - SA LEROY W. SHEETS (RETIRED) , LAST

ADDRESS BELIEVED TO BE 5825 - 72HD STRELT, N. I.;

MARYSVILLE, VASHLIGION, (DOGUVATS AUTORED WHILE ASSIGNED

LOS ANGELES) •

BUTTE AND MINNEAVOLIS SHOULD ADVISE INCUMBENT EMPLOYERS

THAT IF CONTACTED BY SSC SIAFF FOF: TITERVISIT, LUCAL COUNSEL

DIVISION IS TO BE IMMEDIATELY NOTIFIED THROUGH SAC SO THAT

RELEASE FROM CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMANI AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR

INTERVILIT CAN BE EFTECILD.

SEATTLE SHOULD CONTACT FORMER SA SHEETS, ALENT HTM IO

ANTICIPATCD SSC STAFF INTERVIE AND ADVISI HIM TO CONTACT

LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION SO THAT HE CAIT BE RELEASED FROM

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT AND PARAMETORS OF INTERVIET OUTLINED

TO HIM. CONT/CI WITH SHELTS TO BE HANDLED BY SAC OR ASAC.

IN EVENT THIS NOT FEASIBLE FOR JUST CAUSE, TO BE HANDLED BY

¿ SENIOR SUPERVISOR. IF SHEETS NO LONGER IN YOUR TERRITORY

OR IIMPURARILY AVAY, SET OUT LEAD TO OTHER UFFICE IMEDIATELY

VITE COFY TU FBIHO.

IN 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 27

---

## Page 28

L'AGE 3

NOIL:

Referenced SSC letter indicated that certain

portions of Bureau memoranda and airtels may be quoted ir

the SSC's final report on IBI intelligence operations and that

the SSC was seeking to take the testimony of persons those

memoranda and statements might be quoted in that report. The

memoranda referred to in referenced SSC letter pertain to

the FBI's role in the "gang war'' between the BrP and the US

Organization.

By telephone call 2/18/76, the SSC also requested

the author of SiC, Los Angeles, airtel to Director, IBI,

5/26/70, under the same caption as above memoranda. The

author of this communication was determined to be Supervisor

Kichard W. Held, currently assigned to FBIHQ. Mr. Held,

who is in an official travel status until the first week of

liarch, has been advised of the SSC's desire to interview him.

By airtel, Minneapolis and Butte will be furnished copics of

documents

written by Mr. Neumenn and Mir. Burns, respectively.

НН 55149 DooId:32989578

Page 28

---

## Page 29

SUBJECT

5010-106

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAT 1YO2 E9TON

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

B

. Adams

Assor. "Dir.

Deg

Asst. D

Admig

Comp. Systa-

Ext. Affairs.

Mr. J.

÷ Legal

Counsel

DATE: 2/2/76

MDR I6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERCIN SUNCLASSIPIER

DATE LUS DD DY SPAHMICHL

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv

Ident.

Inspec

Intell.

Labora

Land

Plan. & Eval.

SENSTUDY

75

Spec. Inv.-

Training

Tolophone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

At 2:45 p.m. on 1/27/76, Michael Epstein, Staff Member

of captioned Committee, requested that Harold N. Bassett, Assistant

Director of the Inspection Division, or some other Bureau official

familiar with inspection procedures be made available for a briefing

with that Committee on 1/28/76 and to appear in executive session at

10 a.m. on 1/29/76.

the Bureau's inspection procedures.

The topic of the briefing and testimony will be

Epstein contacted SA Paul. V. Daly of this Division on

1/28/76 and indicated he would desire that the briefing take place

in the Committee's space at 1:30 p.m. on this date.

He stated it

would not be necessary for Assistant Director Bassett to be familiar

with any particular matters reviewed by the Inspection Division but

general, the inspection policies and procedures.

Epstein stated

executive session which was to begin at 10 a.m.

on 1/29/76 would consist of Assistant Director Bassett and former

Acting Associate Director W. Mark Felt appearing in a panel ar-

rangement.

Assistant Director Bassett would be asked questions'

at the executive session concerning inspection procedures.

Scheduled to follow Assistant Director Bassett as

witnesses before the Committee in that same executive session at

11 à'm. are Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., in his role as Counsel on

Professional Responsibility and Glen E. Pommerening, Assistant

Attorney General for Administration.

Adminto Bacon dn

On 1/28/76, Epstein advised SA Daly that Assistant

Director Bassett's appearance in executive session before that

Committee was being rescheduled for 2 p.m. on 1/29/76 because of

a schedule conflict.

He subsequently advised that the Staff

briefing had to be postponed because Epstein determined he had

a

prior commitment. Epstein, in the late afternoon of 1/28/76,

EX-116 REC-50 02-114395-388

1 - Mr. Mintz

7 Mr. Adams

I-Mr Callahar

1 - Mr. Bassett

1 - Mr. Wannali

1 - Mr. Cregar

1 - Mr. Hotis & FED 1U 1976

1 - Mr. Daly

17011

CONTINUED - OVER

PVD: lad Mi

(10)

178 4 15EB 25197689578

Page 29

---

## Page 30

Legal Counsel to Mr. Adams

RE: SENSTUDY

75

advised that he had to again postpone the executive sessior.

testimony of Assistant Director Bassett because of schedulino

conflicts and that the testimony would be sometime during the

week of 2/2/76. He could not

that the testimony would take give a definite time nor assure

place during that week.

On the morning of 1/29/76, Epstein requested that

Assistant Director Bassett appear in executive session at 2 p.m.

on 2/3/76 to give his requested testimony.

After consultation

with Assistant Director Bassett, Epstein

was advised that As-

sistant Director Bassett had delayed his departure from Washington,

D. C., to conduct Bureau business in order to be available for

testimony and that on two separate occasions the Committee had

found it necessary to reschedule his testimony.

He was advised

that Assistant Director Bassett would be available during the

week of 2/9/76 and that we requested he be

given the opportunity

to testify during that week or some other mutually agreeable time.

Epstein stated that it was the intention of the Committee to go

forward on 2/3/76 without Assistant Director Bassett and mentioned

that former Acting Associate Director W. Mark Felt who had been

head of the Bureau's Inspection Division would be available to

testify concerning this matter.

It was pointed out to Epstein

that Mr. Felt is no longer with the FBI

and is not in a position

to act as spokesman for Bureau inspection policies and procedures

which are currently in existence under Director Kelley.

Epstein

again indicated that the Committee would

go on without a Bureau

representative.

John I. Elliff, Director of the Domestic Task Force of

the Senate Select Committee, was immediately contacted

and advised

of Epstein's decision and the background concerning this matter.

Elliff was advised that the Committee certainly would want all the

information available concerning inspection procedures in the

Bureau to

get a fair picture of this area of Bureau operations.

Elliff agreed and stated he would insure Assistant Director Bassett

would be given the opportunity to testify as to the Bureau's current

inspection procedures and policies. This testimony, however, may

not be at the same time as the appearance of W. Mark Felt, et al.

RECOMMENDATION:

+0 1341313

For information.

- 2 -

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 30

---

## Page 31

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INYESIIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SEMION

NR 12 SD PLAIN

5:54PM JANUAR

Ties

20

JAN 28:197670

TELETYPE

1976 UNGENT ASC

Dir.

Dep.-

Dep. A

Asst. Dib

Admin

Comp

Byst

Jest

Atfairy

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. —

Ident. -

DIRECTUR

Desar

FRUM

SAM DIEGO (66-1714)

ATT iV:

INID AND LEGAL COUNSEL

NSTUDY 75

RE SAiN DIEGÚ TELETYPE IU THE BUREAU JANUARY 27, 1970.

THE SAN DIEGU UNIUN NEWSPAPER UF JANUARY 28, 1976,

OUNTAINS AN ARTICLE STATING CITY CUUNCILMANN FLOYD MURROW WILL

Laboratory

Plan, & Eval -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

Legal Cous.

Telephone B72

Director Bee'h

UN JANUARY 29, 1976, PROPOSE A CUUNCIL RESOLUTION REQUESTING

THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE CUMITTEE CONDUCT HEARINGS IN SAN DIEGO

TO REAR LOCAL WITNESSES IN CUNNECT IUN WITH RECENT DISCL USURES

THAT THE FBI "PROMOTED VIULENT DISRUPTION OF BLCK GROUPS

AID PULITIÇAL DISSIDENIS" IN SAN DIEGO DURING THE LATE 196KS

AND EARLY 197OS. THE RESULUTIUN WILL REQUEST THAT THE CITY UC

SAN DIEGO HAVE A KEPRESENTATIVE UN THE SENATE COMMITTEE TU

UBTAIN INFORMATION GAINED BY THE PANEL IN ITS HEARINGS.

THE ARTICLE FURTHER STATES IHAT SAN DIEGO CITY

COUNCILHAN LEON WILLIAMS MET FOR MURE THAN AN HOUR IN SAN DIEGO

ON JANUARY 27, 1976, WITH SENATE INVESTIGATÜR ARTHUR JEFFERSON

MOR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CREINIS UNCLASSIFIE

JATE1 18/DO BY522ALA

HERN

EX-116

RECSO 602-116 920

The 1389

8 4 FEB 2 5 1976

1NN 35149 Do0Id:32989578 Page 31

A FEB AS 1976

COUNSEL

---

## Page 32

PAGE TWO

SD 66-1714

REVIEWING FBI ATTEMPTS TU DISRUPT BLACK NATIUNALIST GROUPS.

WILLIAMS ALLEGEDLY TOLD JEFFERSON UF HIS ATTEMPTS TO

MEDIATE A FEUD BETWEEN THE BLACK PANTHERS AND US IN SAN DIEGU

IN 1969. WILLIANS STATES HE WAS INFORMED BY TWO CITY

OFFICIALS, FORMER PULICE CHIEF O.J. RUED AID FORMER CITY

MANAGER WALTEN HAHN, THAT THE BLACK PANI HERS PLANNED IO

ASSASSINATE MIM AND INFURMTATIUN ADOUT THE PLOT HAD BEEN FURNISHED

BY THE FBI. NOED AND HAHN ARE REPORTED IN THE ARTIQE AS

NUT RECALLING THE MEETING UR TELLING WILLIAlS UF A DEATH PLOT

AGAINST HIM.

WILLIANS INDICATES I HAT UPON BEING SU ADVISED BY

RUED AND HAHN, HE NOTIFIED COUNCILMAN FLOYD MORROW AND MORROW

HAS STATED HE RECALLS BEING SO ADVISED.

THE ARTICLE STATES JEFFERSON DEPARTED SAN DIEGO

FOR LOS ANGELES ON JANUARY 27, 1976, AND EXPECIS IU PRODE FOI

1N 35149

DocId: 32989578

Page 32

---

## Page 33

....

..

PAGE THREE

SD 66-1714

ACTIVITIES IN LOS ANGELES WHERE "TWO MEMBERS UF THE BLACK

PANT HEX PARTY WERE KILLED DURING A SHOUT OUT WITH US MEMBERS

ON THE UCLA CAMPUS IN JANUARY, 1969. "

EiD.

VLN FBIHQ ACK FOR ONE TEL

NRÜ12. CLR

---

## Page 34

1 - Mr.

P. Callahan

1 - Mr.

Adams

1 - Mr. D. W. Moore, JI.

The Attorney General

February 18, 1976

Director, FBI

SAN DIEGO OPERATIONS

1 - Mr. J. A. Mintz

- Mr.

1

W.

R. Wannall

- Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1

- Mr.

J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr. E. F. Glenn

You were previously advised by my letter dated

Januazy 23, 1916, of recent allegations against the lb.

relating to

the Secret Army Organization (SAU) that

appeared in a series of articles beginning January 1l,

1976, in the

"San Diego Union" Newspaper.

These articles

alleged the FBI created and financed the

SAO and controlled

the activities of this group through an infornant, Howard Barry |'

Godfrey,

who was a leader of this organization.

You were

also advised the inquiry being conducted concerning these allegar

tions had thus far indicated they were unfounded.

This is to advise you that our inquiry into

this matter has been completed.

This inquiry which

included a review of all pertinent court records and

FBI Headquarters and San Diego Field Office files reveals

allegations against the fbl, concerning our investigation

of the SAO, are without merit and clearly shows the FBI

did not organize, control, or finance the SAO.

Information

ORTGINAL, FILED

we received concerning illegal activities conducted or

planned by the SAO was immediately disseminated to

appropriate law enforcement agencies.

In the above-mentioned series of articles

there were certain allegations made by former S10 members

and associates when interviewed by newspaper reporter Patrick

Dillon.

These individuals previously expressed a desire

to the news media to discredit Godfrey, or had been found

guilty following legal proceedings in which Godfrey was

an important witness.

Allegations made by them to Mr. Dillon

included:

NOTH

187F11

(I* 62-116395

(SENSTUDY 75 Project)

EFG: lek

(12)

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

16

FORMATION CONTAINED

MENONISL

"CLASSIFIE

DATE LLL8AD

BY Sea ALM/EHL

DUPLICATE YELLOW

WN 5517 FER 2 5.18763

Page 34

---

## Page 35

The Attorney General

(1) Godfrey assigned SAO members to kidnap antiwar

demonstrators during the 1972 Republican National Convention

Bo to ted in can a deed to tad bre pre tered

school offices, firebombing vehicles, and making threatening

calls.

when interviewed by Mr. Dillon, also testified during the trial

of an SAO member that he was responsible for the sale of between

910,000 and $20, 000 worth of weapons and explosives to Godtrey.

This person later entered a guilty plea in court, State of

California, for the charge of perjury in connection with this

2372622

testimony,

The extensive review of pertinent FBI and court

documents, mentioned above, produced no information to

substantiate or refute these allegations. However, it

should be noted no information to document or substantiate

these allegations has been produced.

In view of the above we contemplate no further inquiry

in this matter.

NOTE:

By letter dated 1/23/76, the Attorney General was

advised of articles appearing in

"San Diego Union'

Newspaper

alleging Bureau organized, financed and controlled the SAO.

The Attorney General was advised preliminary inquiries

determined there was no basis for allegations,

however,

additional inquiries were being conducted.

Instant letter

is follow-up letter to advise Attorney General of results

of additional inquiries.

- 2 ..

1 MN 55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 35

---

## Page 36

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPAIR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. Jenkins

di:

FROM :

JJ. McDermott 27010

SUBJECT:

COST DATA - JANUARY 1976

SENSTUDY AND HOUSTUDY

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD In

Asse kil

drift

Comp. Syst. d

Ext. Affairs

DATE: 2-6-76

Filos & Com. -

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

Inspection

MDR 16

Intoll. -

Laboratory

ALLINFORMATION CONTAINED

Legal Coun.

HERE 800 8 52 ALm

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training

1E 1LTolophone Rm. -

Director Soc'y -

Due to the fact that this matter is being handled in Records Section

through normal mail processing procedures, it is most difficult to determine

which specific individual(s) may have typed a certain card or abstract, searched

a particular name, reviewed a particular file, etc. Therefore, names of

individuals have not been given. In some instances, a specific number of

individuals involved may be known and, where applicable, this has been shown.

But in some units it is impossible to know even how many persons performed

the work relative to a specific subject. All that can be given in some cases is

the estimated number of hours in a particular grade or level based on production

figures relating to this matter.

SENSTUDY

No. Personnel

8

1

*

Grade

Salary

Man-Hours

Agent/Clerical

2

1

1

GS-3

GS-4

GS-6

GS-6

GS-6

GS- 8

GS-15

$ 7,102

8, 508

9,946

10, 610

11, 606

15,071

37,573

51/4

1/2

133 1/4

1/2

C

C

C

C

8

° REC-48

62-1165151386

HOUSTUDY

*Cannot be accurately determined

EX 116

iS FEB 10 1976

2

1

GS-3

GS-6

7,102

10, 610

13/4

1/2

Costs incurred in the Communications Section are negligible.

RECOMMENDATION:

Refer to the Administrative

Division.

111

WLB:bpr.

1640

13.1910

HH 55306-00

DocId: 329894664St Sayings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

---

## Page 37

5-113a (Rev. 3-21-73)

1 - Mr. Callahan

'1 - ME

Adams

1 - M7

Mack

1

- Mr.

Mintz

1

- Mr.

Moore

1 - Mr. Wannall

1

- Mr.

Leavitt

Intelligence

Division

1-Mr. Deegan

1-Mr. Cregar

I-Mr.

INFORMATIVE NOTE

Tansey

Date

1/28/76

Attached from San Diego pertains to

Senstudy '75 and current activity of Senate

Select Committee (SSC) investigators probing

charges the FBI promoted guerrilla-type war-

fare against blacks and political dissidents

in the San Diego and Los Angeles areas during

the late 1960's and early 1970's.

San Diego "Union" newspaper 1/28/76

indicates City Councilman Floyd Morrow will

propose council resolution on 1/29/76

requesting SSC conduct hearings and have

representative from city of San Diego on

the "Senate Committee" to obtain data gained

by the panel in its hearings. It is also

reported SSC investigator Arthur Jefferson

departed San Diego for Los Angeles on

1/27/76. He is going to probe FBI activities

pertaining to two rival black extremist

This involved killing of two Black

The "Union" article also states City

Councilman Leon Williams met for more than

an hour 1/27/76 with Jefferson and told

Jefferson he attempted to mediate a feud

between BPP and US in San Diego in 1969.

Williams claimed he was informed by two

city officials, the tormer police Chief and

the former city manager, that FBl told them

BPP

planned to assassinate Williams. The

article indicates the former police chief

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HH 55149

DocId:32989578

Page 37

V

---

## Page 38

and the former city manager both deny

making such statement to Williams.

Williams claims he told Councilman Morrow

at the time and Morrow claims he recalls

being so advised.

SAC Ronald L. Maley, San Diego,

celephonically contacted by Intelligence

Division Night Supervisor F. Anthony

|| Tansey, stated San Diego FBI personnel

knowledgeable of facts do not recall any

such incident or notice to former offi-

"have been notified directly.

San Diego is currently reviewing perti-

nent files for any information to prove or

disprove Williams

statement and a teletype

will be submitted with pertinent facts on

1/29/76.

Upon receipt of the teletype from

San Diego, you will be advised whether or

not San Diego did have knowledge of any

information.

- 2 -

HW 55149 DooId:32989578

Page 38

---

## Page 39

PLAINTEXT

1 - Mx. Mintz

1 - Mr. Wannall

TELETYPE 1 - Mr. CregarNITEL

1 - Mr. Daly

1 - Mr. Miller

TO :

ADIC, NEW YORK

2/12/76

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN,IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 11|8/00 BY SP. 2 ALMIEHL

SENSTUDY 75

#: 4419149 08+ +8-4-89607-2-1

SA DANIEL A. FLYNN GAVE DEPOSITION ON SEPTEMBER 10,

1975, TO THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE. JAMES DICK, COMMITTEE

STAFF MEMBER, DESIRES TO HAVE SA FLYNN ATTEST TO THE ACCURACY

OF DEPOSITION BEFORE NOTARY PUBLIC. MR. DICK WILL CONTACT

SA FLYNN IN THE NEW YORK OFFICE AND MAKE ARRANGEMENTS

THIS REGARD. BUREAU APPROVAL IS GRANTED FOR SA FLYNN TO

ATTEST TO THE ACCURACY OF THE DEPOSITION.

FEDERAL GURGAU OF INVESTIGATION

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

FEB 1 2 1978

• 1 - Personnel File

HELETYPE

12

38'5

ST 112

2O FED 18 1976

NOTE: On 2/11/76, James Dick, Staff-Member of the Senate

• Flynn (NYO) gave deposition on

The deposition was

not under oath. Dick requested SA Flynn attest to accuracy

of his deposition before a notary public. SA Flynn furnished

a summary of his deposition to the Bureau which was furnished

to the Department and the White House by memorandum dated

10/1/75.

JDM/PVD: lad LAP

(10)

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. -

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. -

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv. -

Ident..

Inspection

Intell.

Loboratory

Plan. & Eval, -

Spec. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm..

MAIL ROOM L

84H8 205-10752289578

TELETYPE UNIT

Page 39

GPO: 1975 0 - 569-920

---

## Page 40

_ -—

NCO Pickett

Rm 9/70 5/6/99

section 3

11/8/00

HH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 40

---

## Page 41

1 - Mr. N. I.

Callahan

1 = Mr. J.

B.

Adams

1 = Mr.

D. W. Moore, JI.

Mr. W. R. Wannall

J. G.

peesan

2/10/76

1 - MI. J. A. Mintz

1 - Mr.

W.

R. Wannall

.- Mr. W. 1. Cregar

1

- MT. J. G. Deegen

SECRET ARMY ORGANIZATION

(SAY)

EXTREMIST MATTER

1 - MI. E. F. Glenn

MDR I6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4/8 AD BY SPALMEHL

In previous memorandum J. G. Deegan to Mr. W. R.

Wannall dated 1/30/76, captioned as above, the allegations

against the FBI and former informant Howard Barry Godfrey were

refuted. These allegations appeared primarily in the "San

Diego Union': Newspaper in e series of articles written by

Patrick Villon, which commenced 1/11/76. Allegations included:

The. SAO was an extension. of the Counterintelligence Program

(COINTELPRO), the FBI gave Godfrey between $10,000 and $20,000

worth of explosives and weapons for use by the SA, Godfrey

paid SAU expenses, the SAO was used by the FBI to disrupt anti-

war demonstrators and get local activists on the run; the FBI

organized, financed and controlled the SAU, end Godfrey conspired

and attempted to commit murder.

Instant memorandun relates to certain allegations

made by former SAO members and associates when interviewed by

newspaper reporter Dillon in preparation of the above-mentioned

series of articles. Extensive review of all pertinent Bureau

and San Diego Field office files as well as pertinent transcripts

of court and grand jury proceedings: regarding SAU members has

produced no information to either substantiete or refute the

allegations: Allegations included:

(1)

Godfrey assigned SAU members to kidnap antivar demonstrators

during the 1972 Republican National Convention plenned for

San Diego,

(2)

Godfrey threatened and pressured SAU members into comnitting

acts of violence,

(3)

Godfrey. was involved in criminal acts which included break-

ing into school offices, firebombing vehicles; end making

threatening calif

62111375=

62-116395 (SENSTUDY 75

Project)

NOT RECORDED

EFG: eks

IN 55140

TEER2519%

CON FEELS 197VER

DOo1d:32989578 Page 41

---

## Page 42

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Secret Army (Iganization (SAO)

(4) Godfrey had an obsession with regard to long haired,.

New Left types. He talked of bombing them with an airplane,

dropping mortar rounds on them, and beating them up.

These allegations were made by individuals who

had previously expressed a desire to the news medie to

discredit Godirey and those who were found guilty following

legal proceedings in which Godfrey was an important witness.

Additional inquiry is not warranted since information to

document or substantiate these allegations has

not been

produced and all available files and documents have been

reviewed.

In a letter dated 1/21/76, the Attorney General (AG)

vas advised that the FBI was conducting an inquiry into

ellegations thet the Bureau acted improperly while investigating

the SA... The AG will be adviced of recults of the inquiry

into all allegation:: by separate communicetion.

A work peper containing all back-up meteriel

regarding the allegations made and the results of transcript

reviews and the review of Bureau and San Diego Field Office

files has been prepared and made available to the External

Affairs Division.

ACTIUN:

None. For information.

HH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 12

---

## Page 43

Vir. W/ R. Wannall

F. J/ Cassidy

COINTELPROS

1 - Vir.

Adams

1 - Mr.

l: Vir.

J.

A.

Mintz

D.

W.

Moore

1 - Mr. W. F. Wannall

2/10/76

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1 - Mr.

Deegan

1 - Mr. R. I. Shackelford

1 - Mr. F. J. Cassidy

1 - Vir. D. Ryan

This is to advise of our interpretation of analytical infor-

mation relating to our discoptinued Counterintelligence Programs

(Cointelpros) prepared by the Senate Select Committee (SSC).

On 2/2/76 the Department made available for our review

a number of FBI documents the SSC intends to publish in connection

with its forthcoming report. Included with the material were three

SSC prepared charts (copies attached) analyzing the same five basic

domestic Cointelpros which were reviewed in 1974 by the Department

Study Co amittee on FBI Cointelpros (Petersen Committee), The

statistics utilized by the SSC in compiling the charts differ from

those reported by the Petersen Committee, and the SSC has also

established ditferent categories for characterizing Cointelpro actions

than used in the Petersen report. The following is a description of

the three SSC charts.

1. Cointelpro Composite (SSC Exhibit 10). This chart

lists seven basic categories for the 2, 679 total Cointelpro actions

tabulated by the sse, it being noted this is 3.10 more actions than

calculated by the Petersen Committee. the first three categories,

(4) Attacks on Speaking, Teaching, Writing, and Meeting; (2) Inter-

ference w/ Personal and Economic Rights; and (3) Abuse of Government

Processes, place approximately 925 of the Cointelpro actions in an

area indicating FBI violation of constitutional rights with possible

criminal and civil liability. The fourth category, Third Party Hostile,

Enclosures

62-116009

1) 62-116395 (Senstudy)

DR/AGP:1fj

(11)

CONTINUED - OVER

ENCLOSUA

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE 118100

NOT RECORDED

48 FEB 2& 1976

11.e

7 0F6825 1976

НН 55149 DooId:32989578

Page 43

---

## Page 44

Viemorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Cointelpros

62-116009

apparently indicates Cointelpro actions directed to cause hostile

action to a target, probably by third parties. Categories 5 and 6,

Factionalization and Propaganda, represent approximately 1, 550

at the total actions, appear to relate to eitorts of the FBI to cause

dissension within organizations or to expose through publicity the

activities of a targeted group or individual. The seventh category,

Cominfil, undoubtedly is a reference to FBI efforts to expose or

disrupt communist efforts to infiltrate a noncommunist organization,

it being noted this category is only tabulated for the Communist Party,

UsA, Program.

The SSC categories differ from those of the Petersen

report in that the first three clearly are in terms indicating a viola-

tion of First Amendment rights with possible criminal and/or civil

liability. The four other categories do not necessarily indicate

criminal or civil wrongdoing, but probably indicate actions outside

the charter of the FBI. Fegarding the Cominfil category, the SSC

has been critical of our use of "Communist Infiltration" which the

Committee views as a pretext for such investigations as those

involving the southern Christian Leadership Conierence,

Martin Luther King, Poor Peoples March, and Women's Liberation

Movement.

2. Cointelpro Categories by Program (SSC Exhibit 11).

This chart consists of five individual charts representing the basic

domestic Cointelpros and graphically illustrates the characterizations

of actions conducted in each program.

The five charts illustrate the differences in the figures

for Cointelpro actions as tabulated by the Petersen Committee and

the SSC, These are as follows.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 2 -

IN 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 14

---

## Page 45

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Fe: Cointelpros

62-116009

Program

CPUSA

SWP

White Hate

Black Nationalist

New Leit

Petersen

1388

46

255

362

289

SISC

1636

57

287

379

291

Percent

Difference

17.8

28.8

12.5

4.9

do t

Totals

2340

2650

13.24

3. Cointelpro Activity (SSC Exhibit 22). This chart

endeavors to tabulate the number of Cointelpro actions for each pro-

gram on a quarterly basis for each year from 1956 to 1971. The

chart indicates approximately 60 percent of all Cointelpro actions

were conducted in the Communist Party Program which in two

quarters reached approximately 75 actions and which was most

active during the period 1960 to 1967. The chart also indicates all

the programs except the Black Nationalist commenced to taper

down in terms of actions beginning in or before 1969. The Black

Nationalist Cointelpro was active up until 1971 with some 40 actions

effected in the last quarter of 1970.

OBSERVATIONS:

While the Petersen Committee report attempted to place

Cointelpro activity in 12 descriptive categories, the SSC, according

to the Cointelpro composite chart, obviously is endeavoring to

characterize the actions to highlight alleged abuses and possible

criminal or civil liability. Categories 1, 2 and 3 place approximately

CONTINUED - OVER

- 3-

HW 55149

DocId:32989578 Page 45

---

## Page 46

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Cointelpros

62-116009

34 percent of all Cointelpro actions within areas of constitutional or

statutory violation, obviously indicating possible criminal or civil

liability. This indicates the thrust of the forthcoming SSC report,

as relates to our discontinued Cointelpros, will either criticize the

Petersen Committee report as an inadequate review or one possibly

based on incomplete information. The SSC very likely intends to

dispute the Petersen Committee report conclusion that the "over-

whelming bulk of these activities were clearly legitimate and proper

undertakings, within the scope of the FBI's ongoing responsibilities, "

and to characterize the activities as criminal or civil violations of

individual rights or outside the mandate or charter of the FBI.

We may expect the SsC, in its forthcoming report, as

was done in public hearings, to highlight FBI Cointelpro abuses using

selected documentation from FBIfiles to support its conclusion. It

is likely the SSC will recommend legislation to preclude future

Cointelpro-type activities and it is possible it will recommend

criminal or civil prosecutions. As was done with the Petersen

Committee report, the subjective characterization of an action as

falling within one of several arbitrarily described categories is not

only a matter of individual interpretation, but raises questions which

cannot be objectively answered. Whether or not these actions are

truly thought to be prosecutable offenses, the innuendo arising from

their characterization is in itself damaging.

ACTION:

None. For information.

- 4 -

NY 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 46

---

## Page 47

8'11

01 'X₴

800

COINTELPRO COMPOSITE

TOTAL

2679

(2340)

ENCLOSURE

62-116393

400

ANDR16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN'S UNCLASSIFIE

DATE LI

BY SP2ALM/EHL

200

7. COMINFIL

EXNIÜIT

10

1. Attackson 2. Interfer- 3. Abuseof 4. Third

Speaking,

ence w/

Govern-

Party

Teaching,

Persone!

ment

Hostile

Writing,

and Eco-

Processes

and Meeting

nomic Righis

5. Faction- 6. Propa-

alization

ganda

T17

55149

Doci

M:32989778

Page

---

## Page 48

03416395

tsUL

8891-d

811:1

1.X2

MDR /6

100

75

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO

DATE H8/00 BYSPE ALMIEHL

50

25

329805

2

WHITE HATE

287

(255)

3

18.

4

5

6

CPUSA

1636

(7388)

3

:4.5

200

150

100

50

20

15

10

5

0

6

7

1.

2

BLACK NATIONALISTS

379

(362)

1

3.

4

5

6

SWP

57

(46)

3

100

75

50

25

0

5

2

6

NEW LEFT

291

(289)

3

4

5

6

EXHIBIT

it".

---

## Page 49

Hy962-1163955

HH

Cointelero »5.

Activity

CPUSA so

White Hâte

New left are

Black

Nationalists

EX-22

P. 1648

TAB

nat

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

12200 BY SPRA AMIEHC

t.-

ÉXVIBIT :2

M VI

DocId: 32989578

Page

19

195%

1859

18L0

194

1962

969

1964

1965

11846

1967

1968

1969

1970

1928

---

## Page 50

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-108

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

-UNITED STATES ERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM:

W. 0.

eregar No

SUBJECT:

SENSTUDY 75

1 - MI.

J

Adams

2 - МІ.

J.

A.

Mintz

(1 - MI. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. R.

L. Shackelford

DATE:

2/9/76

1 - Mr.

J. G. Deegan

S.

S. Mignosa

1

- Mr.

F.

J. Cassidy

1

- Mr.

W.

0. Cregar

1

- Mr.

T. J. McNiff

Assoc. Die.

Dop. Abi

вор. до

Asst. Dif.:

Admin.

Comp. Syst. —

Ext. Affairs -

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv.f

Ident.

Inspection"

Intell. k

Laboratory -

Plan. & Eval. —

Spoc. Iny.

Training

Legal Cl

Tolephone

Director Sec"y.,

PURPOSE:

To advise that, at Senate Select Committee

(se cut helion coon, deed at algence

additional Executive Session would be scheduled for

future date to more fully discuss the fole FBI should…

play in intelligence-type investigations of domestic

organizations and citizens believed to pose long-range

hreat to internal security of country

DETAILS:

Reference is made to my memorandum 2/2/76

advising that Bureau representatives would appear at SSC

Executive Session concerning "Domestic Intelligence

Investigations" on 2/6/76.

Above SSC Executive Session was held as scheduled

between the approximate hours 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.

Representing the SSC were Senators Walter F. Mondale and

Robert Morgan who were accompanied by numerous SSC Staff

personnel. Bureau representatives. offerins@yon-116355-1384

testimony at this Session were Assistay! Director We Raymond

Wannal], Inspector-Deputy Assistant, Director Hunter B.

Mignosa and Robert L. Shackelford,

Division, and Inspectör John B. "Hotis, Legal Counsel

Division.

62-116395

MOR 16

TJM: 1hb/hb

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

(11)

5'

SAFE B, 20301976089578 Page 50

---

## Page 51

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

Senator Mondale explained at the outset that

the purpose of the Session was for Bureau representatives

to furnish information which would assist the SSC in,

drafting legislation outlining Bureau responsibilities in

the domestic intelligence area. He requested that Bureau

representatives highlight operations in this field and

support, by specific examples,

Between the approximate hours 10:00 a.m. to

112:00 noon, Bureau representatives offered statements

and answered questions concerning the following topics:

suggested legislation based on both the "Stone" language

and the proposed Attorney General guidelines; definition

of Governmental interests as basis for "Domestic

Intelligence Investigations;" extent of terrorist activity

(both foreign and domestic oriented) in this country;

value of intelligence-type investigations in deterring

terrorist activity; and assessment of potential for

terrorist activity during the forthcoming year.

At approximately 12:00 noon, Senators Mondale

and Morgan departed because of other commitments. Before

departing, Senator Mondale stated he believed the Session

to be helpful but noted the discussion had not included

intelligence investigations of so-called subversive

domestic organizations and individuals who do not appear

to pose an immediate threat to this country's internal

that discussion in this a pould continue win steed

Members during the week of 279-13/76 and conclude with

another Executive Session at a date yet to be decided

subsequent to 2/13/76.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 2 -

-HW 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 51

---

## Page 52

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

Upon Senator Mondale's departure, SSC Chief

Counsel Frederick A. 0. Schwartz, JI., acted as chairman.

Mr. Shackelford read into the

• record a

statement concerning

the

need for continued Bureau investigations of domestic

organizations and individuals calling for illegal

overthrow of the Government even though the threat is

not imminent. Following numerous questions and answers

in this area, the Session was adjourned at 1:00 p.m.,

with no date set for further discussion.

OBSERVATIONS:

While present, Senator Mondale from his comments

appeared to acknowledge that in any proposed legislation

some verbiage would have to be Included allowing for,

Investigations in the domestic intelligence area. He

seemed most concerned, however, and expressed cognizance.

of the difficulty in drafting legislation permitting such

Investigations yet preventing

Investigations based upon

political beliefs and also preventing the FBI from being

misused by Government officials at some future date in

this sensitive area.

Senator Morgan verbally claimed he

recognized the need for intelligence-type investigations

but only when violence was present. He further declared

that, in investigations of organizations calling for

violence, such investigations should be limited only to

that segment of the organization which actually participated

in or advocated violence.

Senator Morgan was critical of

Bureau investigations of the Klan and certain COINTELPRO

actions against Martin Luther king, JI., and other segments

of the entreat alder my and exped he cite this

CONTINUED - OVER

-3 -

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 52

---

## Page 53

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

Leadership should be replaced as it follows the traditions

established by ME. Hoover. From statements made by

Mr. Schwartz, supra, and other SSC Staff Members present,

with the possible exception of Mr. Mark Gitenstein, it

would appear these individuals are unalterably opposed

to legislation authorizing Bureau investigations in the

domestic intelligence area unless the threat of violence

is imminent.

RECOMMENDATION:

That Legal Counsel Division, upon approach by

SoC staff Members, arrange for proposed informal discussion

during week of 2/9-13/76, and determine the date of

proposed second session of SSC Executive Hearing concerning

"Domestic Intelligence Investigations."

- 4 =

NH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page

53

---

## Page 54

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

G'SA GEN. REGE NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W.

FROM

:W. 0.

Wannal Wife

Gregar lusb

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr.

J. B. Adams

1'- Mr.

T. J. Jenkins

1 - MI.

J.

A. Mintz

DATE:

2/6/76

1 - MI.

D. W. Moore

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

Assoc. Dir.

Asst. Dit

Admin

Comp. Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. _

Gen. Inv. -

Ident.

Inspoction,

Intell

Laboratory

Plon. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv.

Training?

Legal Coul

Telephone_Rm. -

Diroctor Soc'y -

This memorandum briefly reviews the speech made

the floor of the Senate by_ Senator Frank_Church entitled

Government Adherence

to the Law:

Special Prosecutor on intelligence Abuses.

received some press coverage, most of which dealt with

-Senator

Church

s proposal that a special prosecutor be designated

to look into the so-called intelligence abuses.

In brief, the statement by Senator Church reviews

that information which was the subject of testimony by the

majority and minority counsels of the Senate Select Committee

(SSC) before the full Committee on 11/18/75. No new so-called

abuses were identified by Senator Church and the speech was

merely a rehash of those.actiyities conducted by the intel-

as abus couperically, ye Church statement mokes reference

as abuses.

COINTELPRO:

62116343-1381

The COINTEL Program IEf blen the subject of extensive

press inquiries and many documents have been made public under

the freedom of Information Act.

It was the subject of an

extensive investigation by the Department of Justice. The

Bureau made all COINTEL files avilable for the Department's

review.

Its investigation culminated in a report by former

investigative practices and techniques."

62-116395

wogemiging,

187)

/- ENGLOSURE

CONTINUED - OVER

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BE WE SEP 3 ALMEH

84 FEB 2 5 1976

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 54

---

## Page 55

Memorandum to Mr.

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

W.

R. Wannall

MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR:

illustrate his disregard for facts as duly sworn to and

documented (the testimony of Mr. Adams on 11/19/75) preferring

instead to persist in certain fixations and preconceptions of

the SSC Staff. The entire King matter is currently under

intensive Departmental review which includes Departmental

access to all FBI files.

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE:

This refers to the fact that in 1969, the Internal

Revenue Service (IRS) established a special staff used to gather

intelligence on dissident groups.

The legitimacy of this

procedure is something for the IRS to answer.

OPERATION CHAOS:

Senator Church criticizes

the special operation group

formed in CIA to explore possible ties between hostile foreign

nations and domestic dissent within the U. S. CIA's defense

to this operation has been the fact that they were doing this in

response to direct instructions from the President.

ILLEGAL MAIL OPENING PROGRAMS:

Much has appeared in the press regarding the so-called

ooperating with Departmental attorneys in an effort to determin

hether there is any criminal culpability on the part of FBI

and CIA employees.

- 2 -

CONTINUED - OVER

NN 55149

DocId:32989578

Page 55

---

## Page 56

:.

Memorandum to Mr.

W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

THE HUSTON PLAN:

Here again, considerable intormation has appeared

S adminiStratiOn.

are to the out ur the ice tou sea one ormor

implementing letter.

NSA WATCH LIST:

The NSA Watch List also has been the subject of some

It involves a list of American citizen

naintained by the National Security Agency for the purpose o

monitoring messages carried over international communications.

This procedure is also the subject of a current investigation

by the Department.

The call for a temporary prosecutor by Senator Church

is not being addressed in this memorandum but will be the

subject of a separate memorandum prepared by the Office of

ACTION:

For information.

per

fam

gra

- 3-

HH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page 56

---

## Page 57

GOVERNMENT ADHERENCE TO THE LAW:

A. CALL FOR A TEMPORARY SPECIAL PROSECUTOR ON INTELLIGENCE ABUSES

MDR16

By

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIES

DATE 11117/00- BY 3P. 2 ALMIEAL •

'Senator Frank Church

A year ago the Select Conmittee on Intélligence began its

investigation of the American intelligence service. Since then,

the road we have traveled has been long and hard. But now the

end of the journey is near. Soon the Committee will present its

final recommendations. *

We have sat

neither as judges nor jurors in this inquiry..

It has not been our function to act as a Grand Jury. Our purpose,

rather, has

been to obtain information to aid the legislative

process.

In particular, we have sought the knowledge and under-

standing, based

on a close review of intelligence activities over

the past three decades, which could help us develop sound legis-

lative remedies to reform the intelligence agencies and prevent

abuses of power in the future.

The criminal investigation and prosecution of officials

within the intelligence service who may have violated the law

is not the task of this, or any other, Congressional committee.

Yet all Members of Congress, and the citizens they represent,

should be concerned that justice takes its proper and impartial

• course in this matter.

The Senate Select Committee has spent the better part of a

year ferreting out the facts and has established that many laws

have indeed been violated. The list is extensive:

From 1956 to 1971, the Federal Bureau of Investigation

carried

out five counterintelligence programs, or "COINTELPROS,"..

against

a variety of organizations involved in

peaceful protest.

Among these

organizations were the Southern Christian Leadership

Conference, most black stujent groups, and various antiwar Ercups.

HH 55149 Do0Id:32989578 Page

DoeTa: 398951 Rare 6 2-116 94092 / 381.

---

## Page 58

The FBI program against the. New left was the most wide-

sweeping of all. Its targets included underground newspapers,

students protesting various university policies, the antiwar

Inter-University Conmittee for Lebate on Foreign Policy, and

several colleges and universities.

The FBI tactics included the use of anonymous letters and

telephone calls designed to disrupt families, friendships.,

careers, and organizations; the use of agents provocateurs to

sow dissension and fragment groups; the dissemination of fake

information about individuals to employers, credit bureaus, and

creditors; the instigation of tax investigations against certain

citizens

for harassment purposes, alone; the investigation of the

private life of group leaders for whispering to the press; and

an

almost endless

list of equally deplorable assaults on First

Amendment rights.

From 1962 until his death, Dr. Martin Luther King was the

target of

a vicious campaign by the FBI to discredit him as the

nost prominent black activist in America. The full array of the

Bureau's sophisticated devices of technical surveillance was

turned against Dr. King. He was illegally bugged, tapped, and

followed.

Information on his private life was then delivered by

agents

of the FBI to clergymen, Members of Congress, the White

House, United States Ambassadors, 'newsmen, the National Science

Foundation, and the British Government, among others. Agents

were sent to colleges to persuade them not to grant Dr. King

honorary degrees.

.. •

Infarnation obtained fron microphone coverage of Dr. King

was hand-carried to prominent clergymen throughout the country.

As one agent recalls:

[Hoover] sent me..: to talk to an Episcopalian

Bishop.

He

instructed me to tell this

Episco-

palian

... all

Bishop,

who had been speaking for King

sorts

of details.

It was not a pleasant

assignment.

But it was

an order, an

instruction;

and I did go..... (The Bishop] led

me to believe

that we could have done a much more honorable

thing

if we had stayed in Washington and not

carried that tale out there, and I'm inclined

to think that he was right.

-2=

MY 55119 DooId: 32989578 Page 58

---

## Page 59

Thirty-four days before Dr. King was to fly to Norway to

receive the highest honor an American can earn, the

Nobel Prize

fox Peace, the Federal Bureau of Investigation even sent him a

message urging him to take his own life. The unsigned noteiread:

Kong, there know yate thing left for you

know what it is.

You have just

34 days in which to do it.

(This exact number

has been selected for a specific reason.)

It

• has definite practical significance.

You are

done.

There is but one way out for you.

The FBI has engaged in a host of other questionable activ-

ities, including the collection of intelligence on critics and

political opponents of incumbent Presidents.

In 1969,. the Internal Revenue Service established a Special

Service Staff (SSS). For the next five years the SS Staff was

used by the IRS and, indirectly, the FBI to gather intelligence

on dissident groups. Its 11,458 files included dossiers on anti-

war

leaders, black

political leaders, writers, labor organizers,

tax

reform

groups;

civil rights groups, women's liberation groups,.

clergymen, and many more.

In 1967, a Special Operations Group was formed in the Central

Intelligence Agency. Its purpose was to explore possible ties

between hostile foreign nations and domestic dissent within the

United States. The project received the codéname "Operation CHAOS."

Over a six-year period, CHAOS accumulated more than 13,000 files,

including 7,200 on American citizens. Through this program the

CIA became

storehouse for the stockpiling of large quantities

of data on citizens of this country.

From 1940 to 1973, various illegal mail-opening programs

were conducted intermittently by the CIA and the FBI. The CIA

program ran -- off and on -- from 1952 to 1973, and involved the

opening of mail to and from American citizens. " This mail was

intercepted in five major cities within the United States, with

the larges operation taking place in New York City. In that

metropolis

alone,

9,000 letters were opened and read by CIA agents

H# 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 59

---

## Page 60

in the

year of the program. Among the

dividuals and

• organizations whose mail was examined were' Arthur Burns, Mrs.

Martir. Luther King, ür., "ichard Nixon,, Senators Humphrey and

Kennedy, the Ford Foundation, Harvard University, and the

Rockefeller Foundation.

The FBI mail-opening program ran from 1940 to 1966, with

Federal agents

in seven American cities reading and photograph-

ing letters written by citizens of the United States. The FBI

also cooperated with the CIA mail progran in New York City, re-

ceiving copies of more than 50,000 intercepted letters from the

Agency between 1958 and 1973. Military intelligence units

shared the CIA take, too.

In the Summer of 1970, the so-called Huston Plan was drafted

for and approved by the President. Based on a sweeping review of

intelligence collection

mathods prepared by officials of the CIA,

• the FBI, tha Nacional Security Agency (NSA), the Defense Intelli-

gence Agenuj lo.i, in: t, suparate military service units, the

ruston dias indi

tries rf illegal proposals. The Plan,

approved by irritatitari, invested the intelligence agencies

with presidentis suthority to monitor the international communi-

cations of U.J. citizens; intensify the electronic surveillance

of domestic dissidents; lial the mail of American citizens; break

into the homes of comestic dissenters; and increase the coverage

of college students.

Althoug: the Plan

ves miscinded five days after its initial

approval, several of the programs continued -- just as they had

gone on before the Presidertial

annointment.

They had a life of

their

own, apart from higher

authority.' The CIA mail program

is but one example.

Anons thr prográms approved by the President in the Huston

Plan was a

"ton ise" mintains on American citizens by the

National Sonia: Agenes.

Messages carried over international

connunicatius: lilities which were to, from, or about individuals

Ma be T1a4y

НН 55149 DocId:32989578

Page 60

---

## Page 61

JFK Act 6 (4)

This is, by no means, a comprehensive list of unlawful

conduct by the intelligence agencies.

The possibility of perjury

by intelligence officers before the Congress is not the least of

several questions which have yet to be resolved by a thorough

investigation of the evidence.

This is an issue of utmost in-

portance, since the Congress cannot hope to arrive at useful

remedial legislation

on the intelligence service -- or any other

public policy concern - if it is not told the truth.

• The issue, then, is not whether laws have been violated,

but rather when and how justice will be served. The "when" ought

to be as soon as possible; the "how" is a more tangled problem.

An argument can be made in favor of allowing the usual

processes and institutions to take their course. The justice

• Department has begun to conduct criminal investigations of several

cases uncovered-by the Rockefeller Commissio. and the conmittees

of Congress. It can be argued that these investigations should

not be interrupted since they have already begun.

- 5.0

HH 55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 61

---

## Page 62

Certainly, the present Attorney General is a man of

integrity. He has voiced his concern several times over re-

garding the abuses which have come to light through the inves-.

tigations of the past year. He has been helpful to the Select

Committee by providing documents and other information. Ilhave

full confidence in his good intentions and his respect for the

law.

Nohetheless, the Attorney General faces an unfortunate

dilemma. Since the Federal Bureau of Investigation is a sub-

i?.:

division of the Justice Department, it lies within the adminis-

trative responsibility of the Attorney General. He is thus

placed in a position of investigating the very house over which

he must preside.

It is not only the actuality of impartiality which is at

stake. The appearance of impartiality is just as important.

The American Bar Association Standards for Criminal Justice provide

that a prosecuting officer should have no conflict of interest

or the appearance of a conflict of interest. As Chesterfield

Smith, past president of the ABA, has noted, "Under the Standards,

it would be improper for an investigation...of the Executive

Branch

of the Federal Government to be conducted by a prosecutor

subject to the direction and control of the President."

The fact that the FBI is a part of the Justice Department

is not the only troubling aspect of this situation -- though it

is serious enough since, over the years, senior FBI officials

and Justice personnel have had close contact in their daily work

and have shared knowiedge of the dubious.

activities brought to

light by the Select

Comnittee inquiry. The Justice Department

and the CIA have also had a unique relationship. A secret agree-

ment between

the two was in effect for twenty years which exempted

the Agency fron

the usual requirements of reporting to Justice

any violations of the law among CIA personnel.

HW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 62

---

## Page 63

Moreover,

it is the Justice Department which is supposed

to represent

intelligence officials who may be sued for civil

damages as a consequence of the disclosures brought about by the

Congressional investigations. How can the Justice Department

investigate and prosecute these officials, on the one hand, and

defend their interests in civil suits on the other? It just will

not work:

It is obvious that the public is deeply troubled by the

findings of the investigations into the intelligence service.

In a recent Harris Survey, 80 percent of those interviewed agreed

"it was wrong for the FBI to send a note to Martin Luther King'

suggesting that he commit suicide." 74 Percent agreed "it was

wrong for the CIA to work out a deal with Mafia characters to

try to assassinate Castro.". And 61 percent agreed "it was a

violation of basic rights for the CIA and FBI to conduct spying

on prominent Americans here

at home."

The government must move decisively. To avoid charges of

a whitewash, it is in the best interests of the Justice Depart-

ment to disqualify itself in this case.

What is vital now is to guarantee a full, thorough and

independent investigation. A special prosecutor, should be en-

listed for this purpose, and given sufficient authority to fully

perform the task.

Last year, the American Bar Association Committee to Study

Federal Law Enforcement Agencies addressed itself in a prelimi-

nary report to the question of a special prosecutor.

The

• Committee rejected the establishment of a permanent special

prosecutor, but noted that "the public must be assured that crimes

comnitted in high places will be investigated and prosecuted

fearlessly and with integrity. "

To this end, the ABA Connittee

properly concluded:

NN 55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 63

- 7-

:

---

## Page 64

There may be exceptional circumstances

requiring

a special prosecutor from out-

side the Department of justice who is

not dependent on the Attorney General

or the President for future promotion

or other preferment.

The primary obli-

gation to appoint such an attorney should

in the Attorney General.

The relationship between the justice Department and the

intelligence service unquestionably presents us with an excep-

tional circumstance.

The person chosen to perform the task

of special prosecutor

must possess the same impartiality and strength of resolution

which Leon Jaworski demonstrated during his appearance before a

committee of Congress in 1973. The following exchange occurred

that year

in hearings before the Senate Committee on the

Judiciary:

Senator Tunney. So as I understand your

statement today, you feel that if there

i, evidence of

criminal activity which is

indictable,

that you would be prepared to

nove ahead

with an investigation and in-

dictments despite the fact that the defen-

lants involved might be prepared to clain

that national security required them tc

do what they did?

Mr. Jaworski. That is right, sir. And

they would have the burden of

sustaining

that position.

I would not assume the

burden.

I would contest it.

The special prosecutor, mcreover, should be imbued with the same.

faith in the law that possessed John Adams, who knew that the

law "without any regard to persors, commands that which is good

and punishes evil in all, whether rich or poor, high or low --

'tis deaf, inexorable, inflexible."

The basic machinery of a special prosecutor's office is

already in place as a legacy

of the Watergate affair.

It should.

not be too difficult to modify this machinery in the appropriate

manner to carry out the invostigation of unlawfulness in the

intelligence agencics.

--8-

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 64

---

## Page 65

It may be argued that we should concentrate on the reform

of the intelligence agencies for the future, not on the punish-

ment of individuals for misdeeds of the past. This is a be-

guiling argument.

But the truth is that we can ill-afford to

overlook the lawlessness of the past if we wish to avoid a

repetition in the future. As two scholars from the Center for

National Security Studies, Jerry j. Berman and Morton H. Halperin,.

noted in a recent New York Times article:

One key element in bringing the intelligence

agencies under democratic control is

to

insure

that officials of intelligence agencies are

prosecuted

when they violate the law.

Unless

there is a thorough investigation by an impar-

-tial prosecutor followed by indictments and a

report, the threat of criminal penalties will

not deter future abuses.

I find it utterly deplorable that the President in his

State of the Union message failed completely to say even a word

about the need to make our intelligence agencies obey the lai.

As the journálist Anthony lewis has connented, "It is easy to

denounce private crime, as Mr. Ford did. But it is more important,

now, for Government to commit itself to law."

And so I must conclude that, in the present situation,

resort to a temporary speciai prosecutor is both proper and

necessary. Leon Jaworski, a forner Special Prosecutor himself,

and others

in the legal connunity agree with this conclusion.

L HH 55149

_DocId: 32989578

Page 65

---

## Page 66

2 - Mr.

A. Mintz

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr. W. n. Cregar

January 29, 1976

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

U. S, SENATE SELECT COMMITTIE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated January 20,

1976, requesting access to or delivery of specified FBI

materials.

Enclosed for your approval and forwarding to the

SSC is the original of a memorandüm in response to Item 1

of referenced request. Also enclosed is a copy of the

memorandum for your records.

Enclosures

(2)

MDR K

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

62-116395

HEREINIS UNCLASGIRIES

DATE 11/71/00 DY ST& ALM/EHL

I - The Deputy Attorney General

Attention:

Michael

E. Shaheen, Jr.

Special Counsel för

Intelligence Coordination

SFP:1hb |hb

(9)

REC. 112

12.14-52321379

• "E FES 19 1976

1 ta inno

Assoc. Dir.

Dep. AD Adm. =

Dep. AD Inv.

Asst. Dir.:

SECURE

Admin. -

Comp. Syst...a

Ext. Affairs....

Files & Come -11

Gen. Inv.

Ident. -

Inspection a j*

Intell.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv...

Training...

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

ROOM L..

$ 9F8B 3.319750989576

TELETYPE UNIT L

Page 66

pua

GPO 954-545

---

## Page 67

62-116395

2 - MI. J. A. Mintz

{1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr.

W. R. Wannall

1 - Mr.

. W. n. Cregar

1 - Mr. S. F. Phillips

January 29, 1976

your request and is not for dissemi.

official proceedings by

mi oil to

isclosed to unauthorized person

U. S. SENATE SELECI COMMITICE IN

STUDY GOVERNMETAL, OPERATIONS UITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGELCE ACTIVICIES (SSC)

Reference is made to SSC letter dated

l'y...

is prepared

your Comm:"

This document

nation outside

your Committee and the coit.

nel without the express approval ot the EBla

January 20, 1976.

Iten 1 nt referenced letter requested access

In all material furnished to the FBI "by the CIA fron

a snurce know in the FBI as 'COLGS" and whn was handled

as a snurce under the heading 'racial extremist matters." "

It was indicated in Iten 1 that CIA had already given

the Connittee Staff access to the material in its

possessinn relating to this snurce.

In view of the Third Agency considerations

present, this request was discussed on Januaxy 23, 1976,

by a representative of this Bureau with Mr. Walter Elder

of the CIA Review Staff.

Mr. Elder advised that CIA

had no record of "les" be that It did have inforation

Concerning

According to Licer, the SSC

has seen everything which CIA has in Its Illes concerning

"CLOGS," including the approximate 30 menranda which CIA

Assoc. Dir.

had furnished to the FBI.

Elder expressed the preference

Dop. AD in _that this Bureau respond in the referenced request by

Asst. Dir.:

Admin..

referring the SSC back to CIA.

Comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs -

FBI files contain a single reference to

"CINGS,"

fin a that being a CIA mennrandum dated May 17, 1971,

Inspection

Intell.

Loborotory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

SFP:1hblhb

ORIGINAL AND

ONE

COPY TO AG

Training

Legal Coun, _

(8)

Telephone Rm. -

Director See'y =

MAIL, ROOM [

TELETYPE UNIT C

SEE NOTE PAGE 2

puA

HH 55129 / DocId: 32989578

Page 67

JEK Act 6 (1) (A)

TUEK Act 6 (1) (A)

6(1) (A)

11) 1

1111.

it Co0: 1850-503-030

---

## Page 68

nc

• т

SCIATE SELECI C'AMICIDE ON INTCLLIGENCE ACEIVIIIES (SSC)

On January 26, 1976, Special Agent Seynor Fred

Phillips of this Bureau conferred with lir. Jhn i. Elliff,

Director, Domestic Intelligence lask Enrce, SSC, and

Inld Illiff nf nur findings brth as tr that sur

files

contained and that Elder had told us.

Inquiry was nade

nE Illift as in the necessity no percinence of the SSC

requesting nê the FBI access in natorials which CIA had

furnished in the FBI inasmuch as the SSC had already had

access in such material at CIA. Montinn was made nf the

Third Agency considoration which Elliff Indicated he vas

cognizant rf, but he stated the SSC's purpose in naking

the request was in the intu ni a dnuble chocle ta insure

the SSC gained access in all ni the matorial it desired.

It tas explained In Elliff that this request,

in light no the facinrs invnlved, inuld place an undue

burden on the FBI as there right int be any tay tr retrieve

the infnmation it was requesting in sce. This print vas

emphasized by the fact that FBI indices contained nnly a

single reference in "CIrCS," that referred in above.

Elliff responded that he tould check with che

member nf the SSC Staff handling this matter and further

advise.

on January 27, 1976, EllifE advised Phillips

chat ho had chocked nut the matter and, in vier nt all

the factors present, it truld be unnecessary Enx the

Bureau in tale any further actinn nn Icen 1 nf the

January 20, 1976, request nther chan in submit the instant

momnrandum.

I - The Attorney General

NATE:

Contact with Elder at CIA was by Supervisor

Andrew J. Duffin of the Senstudy 75 Prnject.

WH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 68

---

## Page 69

5-140 (Rev. 1-21-74) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON, D. C. 20535

Addressee:

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

DETR

(X] LHM

[ Memo

• Report dated_

1/29/76

Captión of Documenta

Senate Select Committee (SSC).

(SSC Letter 1/20/76, Item I) '

Delivered by: -

Stassive

= Date: 2/3/76

Received by:

Title:

yosey ster

Return this receipt to the Intelligence Division, FBI

MDR-16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINE

117 J5119 ĐocId:32989578 Page 69

+ . 114 385-1379

---

## Page 70

OTE:

SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE

BEFORE COMPLETING.

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

TO:

Intelligence Community Staff

ATTN: Central Index

FROM:

FBI

SUBJECT: Abstract of Information Provided to Select Committees

1 HOT PRINCe anita to document as made available

DOCUMENT

BRIEFING

INTERVIEW

TESTIMONY

OTHER

2. DATE PROVIDED

1/29/76

3. ТО WHOM PROVIDED (check appropriate term; add specific names if appropriate)

4.

SSC

HSC

IDENTIFICATION (provide descriptive

data for documents; five name or identification number of briefer,

interviewee,

testifier and

subject)

Memorandum

5. u BegoNs obal so date of ito, her divo, response forgol raquest, other-

SSC request 1/20/76, Item 1

U

7. KEd'under fenter the appropriate key words from the list provided separately; if key words not listed are

underline for emphasis)

Intelligence Activities, Domestic

Civil Unrest

8. SUMMARY (see reverse side before completing this item)

Information requested regarding "Clogs," a source handled

under heading "Racial Extremist Matters." Request

withdrawn as handled by CIA previously.

MDR

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIES

DATE LILT/50 BY.S.Pa ALmi/ET+L

62-116395

AJD: 1hb

(4)

379166-751

NW 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 7p

ORIGINAL VIA LIAISON TO CENTRAL COMMUNITY INDEX

IN CONNECTION WITH SENSTUDY 75.

TREAT AS YELLOM

LASSIFY AS APPROPRIAT

: 2114395-1379

---

## Page 71

274-10064

INSTRUCTIONS

• Type or print clearly in ink.

1..

r..

• Indicaté classification of the abstract top and bottom.

• Date the abstract and put on any internal control numbers required.

"FROM" entry should clearly identify the organization providing the

information.

• If additions (as when a copy of document sent to SSC is later sent to

HSC) or changes to a previously submitted form are necessary, submit a

copy of the original abstract, with the change indicated.

SPECIFIC ITEM NO. 8. SUMMARY - enter brief narrative statement describing

substance of information and showing relationship to Intelligence Community

matters if appropriate.

Any feedback or evidence of investigatory interests

should be noted. Commitments made to supply additional information should be

noted. Additionally, certain administrative information may be entered here,

e.g., restrictions on review of a document, if document was paraphrased, whether

interviewee is current or former employee, etc. If actual document or transcript

is provided, that fact should be noted and no summary is required. Additional

pages may be attached if necessary.

H# 55149 DocId: 32989578

Page 71

---

## Page 72

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 1 2 1976

TO:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

SB

Steven K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT: SSC Request for Interviews of Additional FBI Agents

Attached is a letter from the Senate Select

Committee requesting the names of the authors of various

FBI memoranda and that the SSC be allowed to interview

these individuals.

Please arrange for an appropriate

and prompt response.

A similar request from the SSC concerning the

authors of a memorandum

from the Chicago field office,

is expected shortly.

+113176-070440 Settine

ALL ESI INFORMATION CONLAINEL

ALANS UNGIAOSIFIS

Cc:

Paul Daly

TENCES UNE

Dewa

ENCL BEHIND FILE

REC-100

42-116395-13714

1.0 FEB 18 1976

i9+-

5-IM

SAY MAR, 20306970089578 Page 72

---

## Page 73

FEB 1 2 1976

TO:

John A. Mintz, Assistant Director

Lagal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Steven k. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel fox

Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECI:

SSC Request for Interviews of Additional FBI Agencs

Attached is a lottor from the Senatc Sclect

committee requesting the names of the authors of variou

"BI monoranda and that the ssc ba allowed to interviev

these individuals. Please arrange for an appropriate

and pronpt rosponse.

A sinilar request from the SSC concorning the

auchors of a monorandun tron the Chicago field ottice

is expocted shortly.

CC:

Paul Daly

MDRIG

AIL TETITOR INTION COLMATIO

ONE HE DON SHRALMIEHL

55119

DocId: 32989578

Page 73

---

## Page 74

• a later at

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH.

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

BARRY GOLDWATER, ARIZ.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MC C. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, PJ.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL,

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

@Inited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO 5. RES. 21, JITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 11, 1976

The Honorable Edward H. Levi

Attorney General of the United States

MDR 16

U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C. 20530

ALL ISI NUORWATION CONTAINED

MARISIS UNCLASSIF

Dear Mr. Attorney General:

RATE /7/0052 OPALMEN

As

a part of the Select Committee on Intelligence's

preparation of

a final report on FBI intelligence operations,

we are seeking to take the testimony of persons whose memo-

randa and

statements might be quoted in that report.

In our investigation into the FBI's role in the "gang

war" between

the Black Panther Party and the U. S. organization,

certain portions of Bureau Memoranda and Airtels may be quoted.

The following is a list of these documents.

Actual copies,

received by the Select Committee from the FBI, are also

enclosed.

Memorandum SAC, Los Angeles to Director FBI I1/29/68 .

Memorandum Director, FBI to SAC Los Angeles 10/31/68

Memorandum SAC, LoS,

Angeles to Director, FBI 3/17/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 6/5/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 6/6/69

Memorandum SAC, Los Angeles to Director, FBI 9/3/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 9/18/6.9

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 10/6/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 11/10/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 12/3/69

Memorandum SAC, San Diego to Director, FBI 11/12/69

The Select Committee staff would greatly appreciate

your forwarding

to us the names of the FBI personnel

responsible for the preparation of these Bureau memoranda.

We would also greatly appreciate your making the necessary

arrangements for Select Committee staff to be able to inter-

view these persons.

Yout, prompt attention to this matter will be greatly

appreciated ?

Yours very truly,

55149

DOC

cr

Page 74

Chairman

---

## Page 75

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GUVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

Mr. W. R. WannallhU

rooM: w. O. Gregardlot!

1

1

- Mr.

W. R. Wannall

- Mr.

W.

0. Gregar

1 - Mr. P. E. Nugent

DATE:

2/12/76

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

BY OP2ALM

SUBJECT:

U. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (SSC)

Assoc. Dir. -

Dep. AD Adm. _

Dep. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin.

Comp, Syst.

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com.

Gen. Inv.

Ident.

Inspection

Intell..

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spec. Inv. -

Training.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Soc'y -

Purpose of this memorandum is to advise of

delivery of the attached documents to the captioned committee

on authorization of Mr. Steven Blackhurst, Deputy Special

Counsel for Intelligence Coordination, Department of Justice.

By way of background, the SSC previously requested

access to all Bureau materials in the Martin Luther King, Jr.,

file relating to the Poor People's Campaign and the Sanitation

Workers Strike, Memphis, Tennessee, from 1/1 - 4/4/68, as weld

as all materials in the latter two

files pertaining to

King for

the same period.

A partial proffer of materials requested was made

available to SSC Staff Member Michael T. Epstein for review

on 2/9/76.

The attached documents were thereafter designated by

Epstein for delivery to the SSC.

On 2/9/76 Mr. Steven

Blackhurst, Deputy Special Counsel for Intelligence Coordination,

Department of Justice orally authorized SA Seymor F. Phillips

to make delivery of the requested items to the SSC.

It should

be noted the Department by memorandum dated 1/27/76 was furnished

a complete set of the documents from which Epstein selected

those to be delivered on 2/9/76.

ACTION:

REC-100

62-116372-1373

For information and record purposedo FEB 17 1976

N

Enclosures

PEN: adn 2

(4)

ENCL. BEHIND FILE

ENCE BEHIND FILE

• 4 MAK 4

0149

DocтM!92989578 Page 75

---

## Page 76

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN, REG. NO. 27

UNITES STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr.

W. R. WannallWith

W

cregar luto

SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr.

R.

J. Gallagher

1 - Mr.

W. R. Wannall

DATE: 2/12/76

1 - Mr. W. O. Cregar

1

- Mr. A. J. Duffin

Assoc. Dir. -

Dop. AD Adm. -

Dop. AD inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

Admin. —

Comp. Syst. —

Ext. Affairs —

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. _

Inspection.

Intell.-

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv..

Training

Legal Coun.

Tolephone Rm.

Director Sec'y -

his, to

On 2/10/76, Supervisor Jack Hagerty, Tampa

Division, telephonically advised Senstudy Project that

et that.

one Jack Bauman, 600 Lake Martha Drive, N. E., Winter Haven,

Florida, had received a subpoena to appear before the

Senate Select Committee on Intelligence (SSC) on 2/19/76.

For background information, Bauman, an ex-CIA

employee, was a witness for the Government during the

Watergate investigation and was interviewed extensively

by the Bureau during same.

Due to a serious heart condition

he did not travel to Washington to testify in 1973, but

then AUSA Earl Silbert, Washington, D. C., flew to

Florida

for Bauman's deposition.

Prior to Bauman's scheduled appearance before

these Michael Main a state bens ady Project

counterpart) are to interview Bauman at his residence in

Florida in the presence of his attorney, Wallace L. Storey.

In this regard, Bauman has requested SA Brooke D. Roberts

of Lakeland, Florida, RA (who interviewed Bauman during

Watergate) presence during this interview, along with

any documents which may refresh his (Bauman's) recollection

of

priox statements as his memory lic filing.

621163851137122

Hagerty desired to know whether

or not Roberts

should sit in on upcoming interview and have FD=302 OF n

his prior interview of Bauman available.

So FEB 13 1976

62-116395

AJD: 1hblhb

(5)

MDRI

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

CONTINUED * OVER

SAFFB497989578

Page 76

---

## Page 77

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re:

Senstudy 75

62-116395

SA Andrew J. Duffin, through Mr. Walter Elder,

CIA Review Staff, on 2/10/76, determined that CIA was

in fact to participate in an interview of Bauman with

an SSC Staff Member in the near future. He is to be

interviewed regarding his prior contact with E. Howard

lunt and ProTect Merry Mack

during its construction. CIA hopes that interview will

the necessity of Bauman having to answer SSC

subpoena, as they feel it will show he will not be the

"hot" witness that SSC anticipates.

Subsequently, Hagerty was advised of above and

that Roberts should not participate in interview, as it

was an SSC interview and only concerned them and CIA.

ACTION:

None. For information.

-2 -

H# 55149 DocId: 32989578

Page 77

---

## Page 78

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

FEB 1 0 1976

FROM:

SB

SUBJECT:

TO :

fotn A. Mintz, assistant Director

Legal Counsel Division

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Steven K. Blackhurst

Assistant Special Counsel for

Intelligence Coordination

Senate Select Committee Request

dated February 4, 1976

Attached. is a letter from the Senate Select

Committee dated February 4, 1976. It is my under-

standing that the FBI has already declassified the

documents in question and that this letter is for

record keeping purposes only.

MDR 16

ALL TBI INGONIVATION CONTAITED

Cc:

Paul Daly

REG-100

ENCLOSURE

+2-116 375-1371

FEB 1'7 1976 :

4-MAR 2 3 19/6

55149

DocId:32989578 Page 78

---

## Page 79

FEB 1 0 1976

TO: John A. Mintz, Assistant Discotor

Logal Counsel Division

Fodoral Bureau of Investigation

FROM:

Steven ". Blackhurst

Assistani Spocial Counsnl for

Intelligence Coordination

SUBJECT:

Senatr Select Cormitten Request

datca February 4, 1976

Attacher in a lotter from the Senate Solcot

Committee datod Fabruary 4, 1976.

standing that the roI has alroady declassified the

documents in suostion and that this lottor 1s for

recosü kooping purposos only.

cc: Paul Daly

MDRIU

HH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page

79

---

## Page 80

startine nort

=

FRANK CHURCH, IDAHO, CHAIRMAN

JOHN G. TOWER, TEXAS, VICE CHAIRMAN

PHILIP A. HART, MICH,'

HOWARD H. BAKER, JR., TENN.

WALTER F. MONDALE, MINN.

WALTER D. HUDDLESTON, KY.

CHARLES MCC. MATHIAS, JR., MD.

ROBERT MORGAN, N.C.

RICHARD S. SCHWEIKER, PA.

GARY HART, COLO.

WILLIAM G. MILLER, STAFF DIRECTOR

FREDERICK A. O. SCHWARZ, JR., CHIEF COUNSEL

CURTIS R. SMOTHERS, MINORITY COUNSEL

@Inited States Senate

SELECT COMMITTEE TO

STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH

RESPECT TO INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

(PURSUANT TO S. RES. 21, IITH CONGRESS)

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20510

February 4, 1976

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr. Esq.

Special Counsel for Intelligence

Coordination

Office of the Deputy Attorney General

U. S. Department of Justice

Washington, D.C.

20530

Dear Mike:

The Select Committee requests that those

documents which are to be exhibits to the public hearings

on domestic intelligence activities be declassified for

public release.

These exhibits have been submitted to Mr. William

0. Cregar of the Bureau and the previously agreed upon

criteria are being used in the

excision process.

Your cooperation in this matter is again appreciated.

Sincerely,

Out. Elles

John T. Elliff

Director

Domestic Intelligence Task Force

MDR 16.

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HURLINT IS UNCLASSINIAD

1979

UST TE

ENCLOSURE

L7777 55149 DocId: 32989578

Page 8662-116395-1371

---

## Page 81

TO

:

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 1

5010-106

Air 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W.R. Wannall

J.G. Déegan

SENSTUDY '75

DATE:

Assoc. Dir. —

Dep. AD Adm. -

1 - Mr. Mintz

Dop. AD Inv. -

Asst. Dir.:

1 - Mr. Wannall

Admin. -

1 - Mr. Daly

Comp. Syst. -

Ext. Affairs -

2/9/76

Files & Com. _

1 - Mr. Cregar

Gen. Inv. -

Ident. -

1 - Mr. Shackelford

Inspectio

1 - Mr. Grigalus

Intell..

Laboratory

1 - Mr. Newman

Plan. & Eval.

Spec. Inv.

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

Memorandum from Legal Counsel to Mr. J.B.

Adams dated 1/29/76 (copy attached) recorded authority

for Inspector-Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson,

Number One Man Homer A. Newman, Jr., IS-1 Section, and

Unit Chief Edward P. Grigalus, IS-2 Section, Intelligence

Division, to appear to give a deposition before Staff

Member Robert Kelly of captioned Committee. This deposi-

tion would be for the purpose of further elaborating on

information previously furnished to the Committee regarding

the handling of security and extremist informants.

As was previously agreed, Mr. Kelly telephonically .

advised Supervisor Newman on 2/6/76 that this deposition

would be taken in Room G-308 of the Dirksen Building at

10:30 a.m. on'

Tuesday, 2/10/76.

He indicated that the purpose of this deposition

was merely to clarify certain points in connection with

information previously furnished regarding security and

extremist informants. These areas were indicated as being:

(1) explanation of the difference between confidential

sources, informants and panel sources; (2) statistics as

to the number of confidential sources as of 6/30/75 compared

with some available figure, if possible 1971; (3) what

problems are being encountered in connection with the

utilization of confidential sources in view of the Privacy

Acts; (4) an explanation of American

gram and Plant Informant Program,

grams and the dates they were in existence; (5) a_brief

explanation of how informants are paid, i.e., paid on

antosE E the SAC as opposed to MBIHa approval ot paya ra

HAN: tdp (8)/

CONTINUED - OVER

MDR I6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN ISUNGLASSIMIES

DATE 1/7/OD BY X

9

&n155E® 212 497632989578 Paye 81

---

## Page 82

Memorandum to Mr. W.R. Wannall

RE: SENSTUDY ' 75

ments and whether there is a limit on the amount FBIHQ

can approve, and (6) bring for review a teletype to

all SACs dated 12/23/74 (see attached) dealing with

the conduct of informants.

If approved, the employees as indicated above

will appear as requested and furnish the deposition

regarding the above numerated areas of informant opera-

tions.

This matter has been coordinated with the

Legal Counsel Division.

No NEED FOR

ACTION:

For approval.

WARw

L. C. D.

presen

DER MR. HELTeson

0+7/6/7667

Pur

goo

- 2 -

MH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page

82

---

## Page 83

UNI

ДЕСТ:

UNTIEN STATES GOT EKAAIENT

•Memorandun

: Mi. J. B. Adams

1 - MI

Mintz

— M

Wannall

¿ - Mr. Cregar

DATE: 1/29/76

1 - Mr. Hotis

•1' - Mr. Daly

sorgin. -

Comp.Sysl.-

Exs, dolloirs -

Fllas & Com. _

Inspaction}à

: Legal Counself

Ineell. 11s

Loborotory .

Logol Coun.

Plan. & Evol. c

SENSTUDY 75

Spoc.inv.-

Troining -

Tolophono Rm. -

Disector Soc'y -

Robert Kelly, Staff Member of captioned Committee,

requested that the Bureau make available a representative or

representatives to give a deposition to captioned Committee

concerning security extremist informant matters.

Kelly

suggested that SA Edward P. Grigalus and SA Homer A. Newman,

Jx., would be the Bureau's witnesses who would logically have

the information the Committee is seeking through this deposition.

In this regard, SAs Grigalus and Newman have previously

briefed Mr. Kelly concerning Bureau informant matters.

Kelly

stated that as soon. as the Bureau witness or witnesses have been

determined, he would furnish additional details concerning the

type of information he desires to be furnished in the deposition.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the Intelligence Division designate the appropriate

Bureau witness or witnesses to give a deposition concerning in-

formant matters.

131/200

Representative of LegalConse,

will attend if necessary.

willin

ADDENDUM: INTELLICENCE DIVISION:

HEH: enm 2/2/76

Inspector - Deputy Assistant Director Hunter E. Helgeson,

#1 Man Homer A. Newman, JI., IS-1 Section; and Unit Chief Edward P.

Grigalus, IS-2 Section, Intelligence Division, will be available for depositions

in this matter.

PVD: lad

(7)

PIM

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

DATE NIS YOU ASSO

"gyP

62-116395-1369

+ mana

MH 55149:Do0Id:32989578 •Page-69+37

---

## Page 84

CODE

TELETYPE

I - Mr. Adams

URGENT

I - 112 Assistant

DilCCtOIS.ri

DECERBER 23, 1974

1 - Mr: Shackelford

].

Mr. Grigalus

TO: AIL SACS

TRON: DIRECTOR, IDI

"CONDUCT AND ACTIVITIUS OF EPLOIERS.

BY MENORANDU TO ALL SPECIAL AGRITS IN CHARGI, DATED

DECRIBER 5, 1973, CAPTIONED "SO DUCT AND ACTIVICIES OF.

LIPLOYEES, " YOU, WERE ADVISED TIAT AS LENCERS OF A FEDERAL

INVESTIGATIVE AGINGY, FBI EMPLOYEES MUST AT ALL TILES

ZEALOUSLY GUARD AND DEFEND TUE RIGATS AND LIBERTIRS GUARANTEED

IQ ALL' INDIVIDUALS BY THE CONSTITUTION. FBI EUPLOITES WERE

REMINDED TRAT THES MUST ME ENGAGE IN ANY INVESTIGATIVE ACTIVITY

WHICH COULD ABRIDGE THE RIGHTS GUARANTUDR TO A CITIZEN OF THE

U.S. BY THE CONSTITUTION AND UNDER NO CIRCUASTAICES SLALI.

EMPLOVEES OF TIE FBI ENGAGE IN ANY CONDUCT WHICIL MAY RESULT IN

DEFAMING THE CHARACIER, REPUTATION, INTEGRITY OR DIGNITY OF ANY

CITIZEN OR ORGANIZATION DE CITIZENS OF TIE U.S.

YOU ARE REMINDED THAT THESE INCTRUCTIONS RELATE TO BUREAU

ENTORBAITS IN INTENTAL SECURITY FIFLD AND NO INFORMANT SHOULD

BE OPERATED IN A MANNER WHICH WOULD BE IN CONTRADICTION OT

win Essent to 2157.

SUCH INSTRUCIIOUS.

EPE: djr

(23)

MDRI/6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO

DATE H/7/O0 BY SPA

m/EH

Ease a 116 345-1369

HH 55149® DOCId 32989578 Faye 84 7:

---

## Page 85

ТЕВТУРВ СО ЛІД. БА

P. :

CONDUCE AND ACIIVITIES OF EPLOYEES

CHESS PRECIPIES MUST BE JOY EN IID BY YOU AT ALE

TIKES, AGAIN, THE SPILT AS VOLE AS THE LETTER OF THE LAV

IS CUP GOAL.

in vani

NH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 857%:

---

## Page 86

R.

FROM

:

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO, 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. R. Wannall

SENSTUDY 75

1 - Mr. J.

B

dams

2 - M.

J.

A.

Mintz

Assoc. Dir.

Dap. AD Ag

(1 - Mr. J. B. Hotis)

1 - Mr. R. J. Gallagher

Admin. -

1 - Mr. W. R. Wannall

comp. Syst. _

Ext. Affairs

DATE:

1/29/76

Files & Com.

1 - Mr. R. L. Shackelford

Gen. Inv,

Ident.

1 - Mr. J. G. Deegan

1 - Mr.

S.

S. Mignosa

worry nat.

Inspection

Laboratory

1 - Mr.

F. J. Cassidy

Plon, & Eval.

Spoc. Inv. -

1

- Mr.

W. 0. Cregar

1 - Mr. T. J. McNiff

Training

Legal Coun.

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y -

At the request of the Senate Select Committee

(SSC), a briefing session was held between SSC Staff

Members and representatives of this Bureau at FBIHQ on

1/28/76 during the approximate hours 1:00 to 5:00 p.M.

The purpose of this briefing was to have SSC Staff

Members advise the Bureau of the nature of subject

matters to be discussed at the SSC Executive Session

Representing the SSC were John Elliff, Mark Gitenstein

and Michael Epstein. Bureau representatives included

Assistant Director W. Raymond Wannall, Branch Chiefs

Thomas W. Leavitt and Hunter E. Helgeson, Section Chiefs

Joseph G. Deegan, Robert L. Shackelford, Sebastian S.

Mignosa and Supervisors Homer A. Newman, David Ryan,

Arthur G. Pote, Andrew J. Duffin, Donald J. McGoaty,

Don K. Pettus and Thomas J. McNiff, all of the

Intelligence Division, and Special Agent John B. Hotis,

Legal Counsel Division.

John Elliff advised that it is expected that

the Bureau will, at the Executive Session, open with a

prepared statement concerning the potential for violence

in this country principally as it pertains to the

forthenning bicentemial celebratie notisently

publicized by Bureau officials.

stated pies

11143951361

to be discussed at this scheduled Executive Session

will

fall into the following four general areas

5 FEB 1'7 1976

62-116395

TJM: 1hb (hb

(12)

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED.

HEREINIS UNGLASSIFIER

DATE 1/1/00 BY SPRALM/EFFE

CONTINUED - OVER

84 FEB 2 3 1976

HW 55149 DooId:32989578 Page 86

---

## Page 87

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

(1) The type of material upon which FBI

bases its assessment of potential for terrorist violence.

(2) Investigative techniques and intelligence

gathering activities utilized by the Bureau to collect

material upon which above assessments are based.

(3) Examples whereby Bureau intelligence

investigations in the past have been responsible for

uncovering information subsequently used by this Bureau

to prevent violence.

(4) Ultimate threat, as compared to the

immediate threat, which basic revolutionary organizations

pose to the security of this country.*

Elliff offered that none of the above areas

have been prejudged by SSC Members and stated that

substantial differences exist in these areas among

Senators composing the ssC.

Mark Gitenstein then noted that this Bureau

has furnished the SSC with documents pertaining to a

number of examples where information, developed as a

result of intelligence investigations, was responsible

if possible, additional examples of a

which would help establish the necess sy sta tave nature me

investigations. Additionally, he requested further delivery of

documents helping to clarify Bureau actions in four of

the previously furnished preventive-type actions referred

to above.

* Meeting scheduled for afternonn of CONTINUED - OVER

1/29/76 by Intelligence Division tn formulate Bureau's

positinn in above four - 2 -

general areas.

НН 55149 DooId:32989578 Page 87

---

## Page 88

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

Elliff also requested that, in preparation

of the forthcoming Executive Session, the SSC be furnished

with statistics covering the number of bombings which

occurred in this country for as far back as 10 years,

if such information is available.

Elliff concluded by saying that he intends

to present, on 1/29/76, to SSC Members a typed agenda

for the scheduled Executive Session and, when approved,

he will furnish the Bureau a copy of same on 1/30/76.

OBSERVATIONS:

A large segment of the above briefing was

consumed by Elliff expounding on his personal views

(and Bureau rebuttal thereto, where applicable) concerning

domestic intelligence investigations. Elliff stated

that such investigations should only be conducted when

a criminal violation or a distinct potential for same

Vis present.

For this reason he believes that informants

should not be targeted against domestic organizations

or individuals unless the potential for criminal

violence is present, and that investigations of domestic

'organizations and individuals should be removed from

the Bureau's Intelligence Division and transferred to

the Bureau's General Investigative Division. The

Intelligence Division would then become the Counterintelligence

Division and would handle only intelligence investigations

having foreign ramifications which he said would include

the Communist Party but not organizations such as the

Socialist Worker's Party. Continuing, he stated his

belief that valuable intelligence-type information

concerning domestic organizations and individuals would

CONTINUED - OVER

-3-

HH 55149 Do0Id:32989578 Page 88

---

## Page 89

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re :

Senstudy 75

62-116395

naturally flow from our criminal investigations in

these areas. With regard to determining the potential

for civil unrest, Elliff postured that accurate infor-

mation in this field could be obtained through overt

contact with civic leaders and not through covert use

of informants. To support the latter position, Elliff

quoted unnamed former officials of the now defunct

Interdepartment Information Unit (IDIU) who readily

stated the majority of the Bureau information furnished

that Unit emanated from public sources. In essence,

Elliff made the observation that he was opposed to

domestic intelligence-type investigations as currently

conducted by this Bureau and he advocated that any

investigation of a domestic organization or individual

¡be based upon criminal statute. It was noted that

Elliff, though not equating "potential" with probable

cause, had difficulty specifically defining "potential"

in the above context.

RECOMMENDATIONS.:

(1) That Legal Counsel Division maintain

close liaison with John Elliff to obtain formal copy

of approved agenda for scheduled 2/2/76 SSC Executive

Session.

CONTINUED - OVER

- 4-

NN 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 89

---

## Page 90

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

Re: Senstudy 75

62-116395

(2) That representatives of Intelligence

Division, in concert with Legal Counsel Division, prepare

requested opening statement concerning potential for

violence in this country to be used at above Executive

Session.

(3) That IS-1 Section, Intelligence Division,

deliver to Senstudy Unit for referral to SSC documentary

material requested concerning four preventive-type cases

mentioned above.

Identity of specific cases will be

(4) That CI-3 Section, Intelligence Division,

deliver to Senstudy Unit for referral to SSC statistical

information concerning the number of bombings in this

country for as many years as such information is readily

available but not to exceed 10 years.

goon

- 5 .

HH 55149

DocId: 32989578 Page 90

---

## Page 91

William H

yawrence

514 SWiSS PIne LAKE

Dr.

Spruce Pine, N.C.28777.

February 7,1976

Mr. James

Deputy

B. Adam

MDR 16

Director,

Investigation

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

HEREINISUNCLASSIFIED

washington, D. C. 20555

Dear

yIr.

Adams:

Senti

DATE

CHI

RE: Criticisms of FBI By U.S. Senators

Robert B Morgan of North Carolina

Reference my letter of January 23,1976 addressed to you and

enclosing data concerningpublicly uttered adverse remarks about

Morgan dated January 24.

Since then the "Asheville Citizen" Asheville N.C. printed

a portion of my rebuttal in its January 30, #976 issue, in an

artiche titled: "Retired Agent Questions Morgan's FBI position".

A copy of this

news item is enclosed.

Also I've received replies from U.S. Senator Jesse Helms,

(R),N.C. and from U.S. Representative, Roy A.laylor, (D),N.C.

who represents the Eleventh Congressional District

and which

includes the Ashevill and Spruce Pine areas. I'm enclosing

copies of their replies which you will find

are sapportive

and encouraging. In fact, Mr. Taylor went out of his way to

support the FBI in his remarks of January 22,1976 in the

Congressional Record. Acopy of his remarks is also enclosed.

Finally, on February 5, 1976 I received

a reply from

Senator Morgan, dated February 3,,976 which was less_ than

favorable. A copy of his letter is enclosed. Today I

am replying to Mr. Morgan in the form of a retter to him

dated February 7, a copy of which I'm enclosing for you.

These efforts

may prove to have been in vain- but if

one convictions as I have and fails to take a stand, he

is more remiss than one who is neutral or who has no

convictions

at all.

117.

With friends like Jesse Helms and Roya Taylor

Letitsinat

give up hope.

10 M

• 16 1976

sIncereLy,

Enclosures

62-116

ENCLOSURE

; INITIALE DI GRIGIRAVOT RECORDED

395÷

46 APK 14 1976

0274932989578 FATALE OR ORIGIN

157447123}

FEB

1976

5579470

CORRESPO

---

## Page 92

William H. Lawrence

314 Swiss Pine Jake

DI'.

Spruca Pine, N.C 28777

February 7,1976

Mr,. Robert Morgan,

JoS. Senator, Norhh Carolina

MDR 16

United States Senate,

Washington, D6C. 20510

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

Dear Senator Morgan:

DATE LI/7/00 BY SPa ALMIEHL

Reference my letter to you dated January 24, 1976 and Jour

thoughtful and sincere reply dated February 3, 1976.

I can apprediate your due concern with what you sincerely

believe to be past abuses

and errors of the FBI. I'm sure you

have heard some sordid testimony, and I'll be the first to agree

that the FBI has had its faults when compared with some theoratical

perfedtion.

I submit however, that you heard only the worst, the most

glaring

and most shocking incidents which can only reptesent the

nost infinitesenal number of cases,

ands of investigations. Much of the testimony heard by you em-

anated from disgruntled, somatimes disillusioned and less than

candid individuals, many of whose sense of values and objectivity

has changed, thr various reasons, with the passing of time!

What you didn't hear was the testimony of thousands of

selItess citizens, many of whom risked their Lives and personal

Safety to work undercover or semi-covertly in a sincere effom

to assist the fBI in protecting this country, 1t citizens and

their civil liberties.

You dida't hear of the interminable and consistent FBI

investigations which scrupulously went the exura steps to protect

the legal rights of individuals under investigation. Nor did you

neaz the testimony of thousa,ds of leariul and concerned cltizens.

parents and other close relatives of persong whose warped minds

and actions were aimed at destroying our government and thereby

the civil liberties of their victims, both black and white.

Exon a philosophical as well as a preg matic standpoint perhaps:

we can agzee that the potential barm to privacy must be weighed

against the necessity lor law enforcement action in relation to

social and security needs at any given time,

If only one or the other of these interests is to be consid

ered to the exclusion of the others irrationality results-and,

should this irrationality persist protractedly, in either direct

jon, our nation would tend to tyranny, namely?

the

one side or tyranny of police agencies on the other.

ENCLOSURE

HH

55149 DooId:32989578 Page 92

Page 92112-116395=

---

## Page 93

-2-

HW

55149

This might be termed a balancing approach

has.

bees unrecognized by many of the iBi's triti an approach nich

Moreovery

in an effort to balance the right of protection

Irom violations of privazy against other rights don't we have to

decide, among other things, how much law enforcement agencies should

be allowed to-infringe on the privacy of suspects in order to protect

the privacy-and all the rights of other citizens-above all the

righta of those later citizens not to be victimized by law breakers

and, or politically or revolutionary motivated suspects? This is a

major dilemma.

I'm not opposed to Congessional guidelines or oversight 6f.

the intelligence agencies. But oversight and guidelines are

raught with problems. for example. is it possible for our current...

or future congessmen to clearly and decisively precior conatuzone

which may contront the FBI and CIA years or even months from now?

For this reason-alone some flexibility is paramount.

Another perplexing issue comes to mind. Will Congress be

accountable if it is the ultimate judge or decision maker for our

intelligence and counter-intelligence operations?

In raising these questions I'm confident that Congress will

ulimately pass some guideline legislation for our intelligence

agenciesand will include therein a certain amount of oversight

provisions stipulating some sort of prior restraint on proposed

tactics or intelligence strategies.

With this in mind we have to recognize that internationally

there has always been a need for this country to learn things that

people would not ordinarily tell a foreigner-or that domestically,

there are things that a criminal or revolutionary would not ordin

arily tell a public official; nor would this type person lay his or

her activities bare to public scrutiny. It follows thatthese narurau

manifestations of reluctance and secrecy has always implied the use

of extraordinary, oster covert investigative means. Therefore, can

we have that desirable degree of and quantity of oversight, without

jeapordizing, ofter in advance, bajor intelligence efforts.

Can certain necessary operations be taken 1f public officials

especially elected officials,

must stand up and take responsibility

£o3 them--or los the failure

to take them?

In reality anyone who knows about an intelligence operation

& Vero over it. for the simple

decision taken by oneself that

in advance will have, in eifec"ifor the country's good" a plan

musi, be made public, will automatica ly scuttle it.

Moreover, there will be situations when a group of elected

officials will

be charged with deciding, often after only short

distracting public

business, wherer to approve or disapprove some

audacious emergency covert operation. And, will they fant to publicly

DocId: 32989578 Page 93

---

## Page 94

aecept responsibility h? their decision proves to be wrong?

this is a sincere and searching question.

Isn't our main paradox perhaps that of the imperfection of

human beings and, therefore, human instituions which means

that

we never get the choice between pure virtue and pure vice?

This is particularly true in the intelligence lield. The

system must be realistically viewed as a prozimate solution to

a2 insoluble problem.

There has always been and there always will be some sin,

sone wrongdoing and some errors of judgement in high places,

including intelligence agencies. But it follows that the same

imperfections exist and will continue to exist in the remainder

solutions nore

o1 society. It is illusory to wait for a perfect solution. There

IS 3300$4

Once wa can agree on this, those of us of goodwill and

perseverence can fight for the better cause lest it lose out to

cheworse. Dace weaccept this understanding perhaps some of our

Imperfections will not occasion the cynicism and self flagellation

of our sociaty that exists today

With this in mind let us assume that the FBI and CIA did,

on occasion exceed their authority. Let us not in our efforts

to correct the problem think that we can, by a sorcke of legislation

eliminate any need for covezt intelligence operations. for we

saL rest assured that neither the Russians nor the Chinese will

join us in this quest for a utopian and nobler less secretive

International or domestic community. Any hasty, unilateral acus

of so called purification on our part will not insure freedon in

the U.s, or stability abroad.

In closing, while you and I do not currently see eye to eye

to the basie

we can, by contining our thoughts and statements

on this issuslesues, ás contrasted to denouncing personalities:

hate a better chance of securing an ultimate meeting of the minds

In an eilort to solve this complex and oftem seeming insurmount

able enigma.

very sincerely yoUrs,

William Ho

Tawrence

!

1 1H. 15149

DocId: 32989578

Page 94

---

## Page 95

CTA

anita

telligence

Agency

The ACcy

VIA

- PARKING IN REAR

* I THINKIT'S TIME WE FOUND ANOTHER LINE OF WORK, PHILBRICK.

- 11

ga 4- ditarian Page

Retired Agent Questions Morgan's FBI Position

"Asherille Citizon" ASheuNNC SANGAR 30, 1476

was appalled to read the

ty, on page l4 of your Jan.'

my 1970 retirement," I'wenty-live

1976, edition; captioned:

of these years-were spent "in

for internal scrutiny protection sure of the invulnerability of

intensified. • FBI • employes

'our form of government. Other-

an' honest. extre

ken.

Morgan Calls F.B.I.

domestic and foreign inspired

recognized the danger, felt that wise

the preamble thereofi

competent, dedicated and

lost Dangerous Threat.'"

intelligence: type operations.

• This story reported com-

My: response -is: that the

they had a responsibility to would not have provided that|

fearing man.

ats made by. •U.S.- Senator

Charges made-by Senator MOr-:

respond and, in good faith, our government is to take

This is not to assun

bert Morgan (D:, N.C.) to the

gan were notconly grossly

initiated actions designed, to measures to insure its domestic

sacrosanct and pious posi

seville Area Chamber of

exaggerated but, taken out of

neutralize,, deter and contain tranquility and provide for. its

for no: organization is per

violent activities äs well as

common defense. This mandate as is no individual. Our

merce -on Jan. 15. Mr.

context,

resulting. in his."

gan was quoted as saying

tinguished aidine receives

those threatening impending is an endless

and often:

pective:. Judgments. as to

violence.

I awesome responsibility.

correct methods of meeting

Et he considered the FBI to be

distorted and misleading in-

The central question for all

solving. problems

I nation's most dangerous!

formation.

of us should be: Has the FBI, Senator Morgan to, castigate.

Why is it so necessary fori always.be in accord.

may

eal, adding, "It's just rotten

The abuses: alluded to by

the core." He elaborated that

the Senator must, on reflection;

-with the help of countless' and Cavil the current FBI

-It is one thing to try

S FBI has lied; openned. mail

•be viewed in contest to the

dedicated local police agencies under the enlightened and able tactical errors. of

correct actual shortcomings

and

concerned

citizens,

times that prompted

them;

leadership of Clarence Kelley? I

our

a wiretaps. * illegally

and;

times

provided. necessary and suf-know Mr: Kelley

and was!

telligence agencies, includ

saucted organized campaigns:

of_ bombings, massive

the FBI: but, it is quite anot

discredit individuals.

riots, destructive confrontations,.

ficient protection for the public' privileged to work under his to wreck and demoralize

He said that the FBI had:

killings,

" maimings

* recordings critical of!

peripheral atrocities, many of

and country in the domestic immediate supervision in 196i, agency, so vital to this count

intelligence

with a recognition that in any retirement following which he

field, in context immediately prior to his by publicly labelling it

irtin Luther King Jr., made

which were initiated by and led

be played for audiences that

revolutionary extremists

free society there is and should: served as Chief of Police at nation's möst

"rotten to the core" and as "

be a prejudice favoring all but Kansas City, Missouri. It was

Nor

danger

Is would be addressing.

should we forget

the

numerous riots,

burning and

the most violent attacks on only two years ago that he

threat."

I am a retired FBI agent,

society?

h 27 years service prior to

looting of our major cities.

returned to the FBI, this time

Remember: The framers of as its director.

in balance, the nation's need

our Constitution were not so

I can certify Mr. Kelley as

William H. Lawrence

314 Swiss Pine Lake Dri

Spruce Pine

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINES

HEREINIS UNCLASSIFIE

DATE U/7/00 BYSPAAa

55149

DocId:32989578

Page 95

ENCLOSURA,

11-593=

---

## Page 96

COPY

Robert Morgan

North Carolina

UNITED STATES SENATE

Washington, D.C.20510

February 3, 1976

Er. William H. Lawrence

314 Swiss Pine Lake Drive

Spruce Pine, Norab Carolina 28777

Dear Mr. Lawrence:

Thank you for taking time to write me and for your

expression of your feelings aoout the Federal Bureau of

Investigation. I

admire your loyalty to the ortanization

you

served

We have finished many long hours of hearing test

imony regarding the activities of the FBI. Let me say

that as a citizen and as: Attorney General of North

varolina, I always supported the FBI and defended it when

1 heard it criticized.

It gives me no pleasure now to hold it in less high

esteem than I did before, but after hearing testimony

about its

activities, especially under Mr. Hoover, I

could reach no other conclusion but that the due process

clause and the civil liberties of individuals were violated

time after time.

What may be worse,

I got the

feeling

from

the testimony of present IBI officials that they

dian't plan to change things much, if at all.

I know that many fine people such as you served the

Bureau and thir country well, but I cannot disregard

the unchallenged testimony I

heard during the past

several months.

Thank you again for writing and with best wishes.

Sincerely yours,

Robert Morgan

RM/gpb

Reply Io:Post Office Drawer 2719,Raleigh, North Carolina276(

Federal Building-Cantury Post Office

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED,

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 117/00 BY SPR ALMIEHL

H# 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 96

ENCLOSUR

62-1163955

---

## Page 97

EXTENSION OF REMARKS OF CONGESSMAN ROY. A. TAYLOR

JANUARY 22,1976

Ir Speaker, I would like to call my colleagues' attention to

the editorial appearing in the U.s. News clorld Report of January

26,1976, titled "Is America Going Mad?". In line with the editorial

are not

segments of the press, television commentators, and many

spokesmen of the Congress going too far in emphasizing the negative

and ignoring the positive-in dwelling on the mistakes of the past

arather than the problems of the present and the hopes of the future

Are they not going too far in destroying the confidence of the

American people and of people abroad in our American inttitutiona-

the HBI,

the CIA, the Defense Department,

the Congeess--and in

destroying the confidence in public officials both those serving

today and many whose honorable servise has ended with death---

J.Edgar Hoover, John I.Kennedy, Franklin Roosevelt.

Are they not tearing our nation to pieces in the eyes of the

world and weakening fundamental institutions whose effective

services are needed today and will be needed tomorrow. Why deelll

so long on the negative and lose sight of the positive accomplish

and mistrust between the people and their goverment.

thereby giving people a deleatist attitude and placing doubt

Inis is seraous because without public conildence our Democrac

cannot operate and it cannot win and maintain respect abroad.

want to know the truth and kes help right the wrongs

established, but once the truth has been revealed I an content

to let theffacts take their place in history and agree with the

editorial that no useful purpose is served by constantly repeating

the mistakes of the past.

The future belongs to the peogle, communities and nations who

have faith in themselves and in what they stand for and in what

they are doing. My choice of a motto for the Bicentennial

year is "Take pride in America's past and take part in its

future."

The editorial follows:

MDR

16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

NH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 97

CLOsE, 62-116395=

---

## Page 98

COPY

ROY A. FAYLOR

1lth District

North Carolina

CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES

House of Representatives

Washington, D.C. 20515

January 29,1976

Mr. William H. Lawrence

314 Swiss Pine

• Lake Drive

Sprdce Pine, North Carolina 28777

Dear Mr. Lawrence:

1 am not among those Members of Congress who have

been criticizing the fBl and CIA.

In my judgement

both agencies are vitally essential.

It is coin

cidental that you

included

port. This editorial made such sense to me that

last

week I

_placed a copy of it inthe Congrssional

Record along

with my own comments of agreement.

Enclosed is a copy of my remarks for the Record

along with a copy of a news release which I mailed

to all news media in the Eleventh Congressional

District.

I know that Senator Morgan will read your letter

very carefully and will welcome the opportunity

it affords him to respond to you directly.

Sincerely

Roy A. Taylor

Member of Congress

RAT cao

Enclosure

MDR 16

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE I/7/00 DVDEAL/ETH

NH 55149 DocId: 32989578 Page 98

ENCLOSURE

62116390=

---

## Page 99

COPY

JESSE HELMS

North Carolina

UNITED STATES SENATE

Washington, D.C.

20510

January 30,1976

Mx. William H. Lawrence

314 Swiss Pine Lake Drive

Sprice Pine, North Carolina 28777

Dear Mr. Lawrence:

Thank you for your letter of January 26 regard-

ing the unfair treatment being received by the F.B.Ia.

cà b

Rest assured, this is one Senator who has not been

fooled by all this nonsense.

We have had experience

enough with so-called ad hoc committees which tend

toward

sensation go the set mater ano

cater to a press hungry for leaks of

sensitive Intorm

ation.

Of course, I'm sure the I,B, Ig has made

mistakes-who hasn't?

What is

important is that

these mistakes have been few and far between, and the

F.B. I. was and is the most honest and efficient law

enforcement agency in the world.

When the country is faced with critical problems

of inflation, people out of work, and the price of energy

tracted from these

sight important problems by a sideshow

Congress does not need to be adis

run by left-wing columnists and commentators.

thanks again for writing. Please continues to

share your thoughts with me.

Sincerely

Jesse Helms

JESSE: HEIMS: Jn

MDRI6

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

HL 55119 DocId:32989578 Page 99

ENCLOSURE

62-116-3835

---

## Page 100

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO, 10

5010-106

MAY 1962 EDITION

GUA GEN. REGA NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. Ro Wamall,

FROM : I. W. Leavitt fir

0

SUBJEGT: SENSTUDY

'75

1 - MI.

N.

P. Callahan

1

- Mr.

1

J.

B. Adams

- Mr.

P.

L. Mack

1 - Mr.

J. A. Mintz

DATE:

1/27/76

1 - Mr.

D.

W. Moore

- MT.

W.

1

- Mx.

T.

R. Wannall

- Mr.

J.

W. Leavitt

G. Deegan

- MI.

W.

0. Cregar

- MI.

A. Tansey

Assoc. Dir.

DagmAD. Adm.

фр. APen

sst. l

Admir

Compl Syst. -

Ext. Affairs

Files & Com. -

Gen. Inv..

Ident.

nspecti

Antal.

Laboratory

Plan. & Eval. -

Spoc. Inv. -

Training

Legal Coun. -

Telephone Rm. -

Director Sec'y .

At 6:10 p.m., 1/27/76, at the request of Executive

Assistant to Deputy Associate Director (Investigative) Paul L

Mec détermine

Mack, Deputy Assistant Director Thomas W. Leavitt requested that

we determine facts surrounding a United Press International (use

news release 1/27/76 indicating the Senate Select Committee

was conducting an investigation in San Diego concerning the

alleged FBI promoted warfare against blacks.

Facts set forth

indicating additional

SSC members are currently in San Diego

and according to news reports are to interview SAG, San Diego,

Ronald L. Maley.

Intelligence Division Night Supervisor f. Anthony lansey

subsequently contacted SA Paul V. Daly, Office of Legal Counsel;

SA Seymor E. Phillips, Senstudy project; and, IS-1 Section Chief

Joseph G. Deegan.

was determined that two Sse investigators

Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, were both in San Diego/ last

week investigating

information concerning the FBI and Secret 4

Army Organization (SAO) involvement in specific activities in

the San Diego area.

Previous FBIHO clearance had been obtained

and "waiver of confidentiality agreement.

authorizations were

approved for those two Committee members to speak to two current

Agents and two former Agents in the San Diego area concerning SAO

investigations.

No one was aware of any current. Committee

Investigators being in the San Diego area in connection with

lany other investigation involving the FBI.

At 7:21 p.m., SAC Maley was telephonically contacted by

Night Supervisor

Tansey and was apprised of the UPI dispatch

dated 1/27/76 at San Diego.

Maney stated this was a new

situation (pertaining to the Black Panther Party and the

US Organization),

different from the matter regarding the

wherein two SC investIgators Interviewed two current and two

former FBI Agents

last week.

Maley stated the first he learned

of this was en article in Monday light newspaper tollowed base

a clarification in the San Diego

newspaper on luesday,

1/2776.

REC-100

60-11605

1366

EnCLOSUr ENCHOSURALLINFORMATION CONTANED CONTINUEIIS INER,

HEREN ISUYSLAOSIFIES

$ A FEB 265 1976989578 Page 100

---

## Page 101

Memorandum to Mr.

RE:

SENSTUDY

W. R.

Wannall

'75

Maley stated the article goes into some length that

Michael Madigan and Lester Seidel, both members of the

investigating staff of the SSC, were in San Diego conducting

investigation relative to the FBI and SAO in the past.

The

warfare in 1969 between rival black nationalist factions in

San Diego and Los Angeles.

The article continues that the FBI

already has turned over to the Senate panel a "1200-page

document confirming that the FBI attempted to foster strife among

blacks throughout the nation.

An afternoon meeting was

scheduled

1/27/76 between Arthur Jefferson and Leon Williams,

San Diego's first black City Councilman.

Maley stated the article in the "Union" newspaper did

not indicate he, Maley, was to be interviewed.

He did locate

the Monday night article in the San Diego "Evening Tribune"

which indicated that Maley would be interviewed.

Maley stated that under no circumstances would he

submit to interview by SSC investigators without first

contacting VItice of Legal Counsel and securing a waiver of

his confidentiality agreement.

Maley further stated he had

earlier in the day forwarded a clipping to Inspector-Deputy

Assistant Director Homer A. Boynton, Jr.,

• External Affairs

Division, concerning a press release which had been made by

Madigan and Seidel when they were in the San Diego area.

Maley expressed considerable concern that the investigators

for the SSC seem to spend a great deal of their time making

press releases (mostly unfavorable to the FBI) and very little

Maley

stated that two articles,

s paper and in

Tuesday's paper, were indicative of the type of press releases

being made.

stated nobody has contacted him about interviews

but he has

read their intentions in the paper.

- 2 -

HH 55149 DocId:32989578 Page 101

---

## Page 102

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall

RE: SENSTUDY '75

Maley was advised to submit pertinent information to

FBIHQ by teletype and he reiterated he would nottalk to any

investigators without first

securing specific approval of

Office of Legal Counsel.

ACTION:

For information. Copy of the UPI dispatch 1/27/76

attached.

When San Diego teletype is received, it will be

analyzed and any appropriate action taken.

wiselat

wors

die gra

pur

-

HH 55149

DocId: 32989578

Page 102

---

## Page 103

SAN

DISGO

(UPI)

SENA

wis

INLINICE COIMITTES

IS

INVESTI

GATING

CHARGES:

THE

FBI

PROMO. ID

GUERRILLA-STYLE

AGAINST

BLACKS AND TOL

DISSIDE:

•IN SAN DIEGO DURING THE LATE

1950S AND

SARLY 197J50

I't

WAS.

REFORTED

YESTERDAY,

TH& SAM

• DIEGO.

EURNING

SAID

TOO COMMITTEE IUVESTIGATORS

HAD

BHAN SAN?

10

SAI!

DISGO

TO

TALK WITH SAN DIEGO POLICES THE FBI AD

•EAST ONL

ELECTED

OFFI

CIAl®

AMONG

THOSE

TU

TERVISHED

U8RS

CHARGE

OF And

FOI

SAN DISGO

RICHARD

HUFFMAN OF

ATTORNLY

OFFICes

COUNCILMAN

LEON

FORMER

• PCJICA

CHIEF

RAY HOODLER AND CITY

JESPAPER SAID.?

•UPI 01-27 06:55 ARS

MORN

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

FREINIS

ENCLOSURE

022116395 - 1366

---

