# docid-32292765

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10041

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2432

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/17/1974

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ASSOC, TRA, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32292765

152

Page 1

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Retortis

CoMection Aot or

1992 771050

DATE: 11-141946900. 10

5:1

FEMER (41 F) 181-11.8

AFPROPRIATE ACANCIAS

NITED STATES GO ERNMENT

UNE PRETO OFFICES

Hotel.

7D DECERICOS PENA

TO

BY DRA.

DATE: 10 8148

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

DATE:

CLASS

• FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13) (P)

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

ARIA

GIANCANA, aka

AX'I

BYL 383URTIOG

*SON-FCIM IT

170:4;4

JATE OF ROVEOW

ALE INFORSATION CONTAINED

HERE IN 2S UNCHASSIFIED

SHOWN

Re my letter March 22, 1974.U

MEX 343

advised April 8, 1974, that Cuernavaca

telephone number 2-25-00 is installed at Quinta San Cristobal,

the home of SAM de. PALMA.

The housekeeper at that residence,

a woman named JOSEFINA, said that the owner of the house as

of that date was traveling in Europe. She indicated that he,

would be returning to Mexico for a short visit toward the end

of May or the beginning of June, 1974.

In the meantime, his

mattorney; CASTILLO, telephone 5-68-15-70, Mexico, D. F.,

handling

his affairs.

380

appear

hay

1,28

Source

retext

further advised 5-7-74, that subsequent

was not

contact at this residence determined that the subject

In residence and had not returned. oX

telephone calls

MEX 170 is attempting to obtain long distance

listed

Саей

to

the phone in Cuernavaca fly)

MEX 170kadvised 4-2-74, that he could find no

ecord

of

CAROLINE MORRIS

at the Hotel Aristos, Mexico, D. F.,

Mexico,

where subject's girl friend is alleged

to have

hen

visiting in Mexico.

DECLASS 110 BY SPECIE Stayed

0n 218/96

CS MEX 287 has been contacted on various occasions. .

He has had no personal contact with the subject and the last

indirect information he had was, that subject was in Mexico City

of 2-10-74.

EX-105

92-3171-2432

Source last

contacted 4-26-74,

at which time he advised

he had been in Cuernavaca

number of known

asso

of dubject.d

Bureau

- Foreign

) - Chicago

Liaison

92-349)

Uni

2 -

Mexico City

SLIP (S)

ROUTING

gast

14189

34 1974

RSC: ffs

7)

0: x5V:

TV 9.225

CONF

74°

EBT

1259

Buy U.S. Savings: Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

40894

dITS DAIZION

OTE IN ANV SECTI

DocId: 32292765

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Here ased

under the worn F. Kennety Assassination

"Recorus colleation ot or 1992 114 U5C 2107 Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

The Bureau got a copy of Drug Enforcement

1aministration memo 4-1-74, indicating that subiect was

living in Cuernavaca, etc.

The reference to Can Can 1r

the last paragraph is believed to refer to Cancun, a new

resort under development in the territory Quintana Roo!

This is a development by the Mexican Government

and it is not known what the MC GUIRE sisters might have to

do with this development.

In addition, Drug Enforcement Administration Office,

Mexico City; reported 5-8-74, information from an usually

reliable source that subject was residing and spending some

time in Oaxaca, Oaxaca,

Mexico.

Supposedly his attorney, JORGE

CASTILLO, was

associated

with an Italian national, DINO MARIO

CARDELLA-TURBIA, resident at Calle Amapola 203, Colonia Reforma,

Oaxaca, owner of the "El Padrino" bar, Calzada Heroes de

Chapultepec 822, Oaxaca, Oaxaca, Mexico. They considered that

this might be identical

to DINO CARDELLA, who has figured in

narcotics investigations.

AU

LEAD'S

MEXICO CITY

AT MEXICO

D. F., MEXICO

will advise results

CMEX 170°5

efforts to trace

long distance phone calls.

AT

OAXACAZ

• OAXACA

inquiryi

Wat 11

att

tt4to identify CARDELLA through discreet

by Mex

may

• be

mat

and check out information that subject

REVIEWED BY WJFK TASK FORCE

i: 5. 9195 dal

EX RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

CORrIDE

NIIATI

-2=-

S80V0ii

DocId: 32292765 Page 3

---

