# docid-32330439

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90090-10102

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-84265-38

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Recorde

Collection det. of 19g

i44 USC 2107 Note) .

Casef:NI 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO :

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/11/1960

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

v9.1

HH 54460

19

DocId: 32330439

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"PD-36 (Rev: 12-13-56)

CONFI

NTIAL

FBI

Date:

2/11/60

Transmit the following in

Via -

AIR TEL

CEDLASSIFICO RY 50& MACHES

MEGENESE

(Type in plain text or code)

IR MAIL

iority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-84265)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-2307)

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ; ET AL;

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS - VICTIM

KIDNAPING EXCONSPIRACY; IS - CUBA

(00: Miami)

CLASSIFIED EXCEPT

OTHERWISE.

813/81

CLASS.

& EXT.

BASEL BASIONS

REASON -FCIM IIV

1-2.4.2

2, 6

DATE OF REVIEW

813191

ReBuairtels 2/4,8/60.U

On 2/10/60, group of 7 photos were shown to Mrs.

CATHERINE TAAFFE by SAs ROBERT JAMES DWYER and GEORGE E.

DAVIS at McAllister Hotel, Miami, where TAFFE now residing.

Included in group of photos was one of JUAN FERNANDEZ DE

CASTRO RODRIGUEZ. Fronts of photos did not reveal identities

of persons pictured.

TAAFFE selected photo of de CASTRO as man who

had been fellow passenger on PAA flight Miami to Havana

about 12/6/59. Did not know name or other identity but

recalled he had been met by someone at plane at time dis-

embarked, was escorted aside from other passengers.

This

was last and only time she saw him.

Later during interview TAAFFE asked Agents if they

had photo of de CASTRO.

Photo pointed out to her from

among those already examined:

She expressed surprise, e

Bureau (AM)

+195-8421-5-38

3

- Miami

(1 - 134-211)

14 2

FED

(1 - 105

WBH : egh

(6)

MAR 3

Approved:

Special Agent in Chärge

Sent

CONFIDENTIAL

Per

NW 54460 DooId: 32330439

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CON

MM. 105-2307

stating she had not recognized it in comparison to photo of

him she had seen in newspaper following his arrest.

Shẹ

then exclaimed she had seen de CASTRO at Hilton Hotel,

Havana, on one or more occasions in 1/60 between 10th and

15th.:

She observed JORGE VALDES talk to de CASTRO after

VALDES excused himself from her company in lobby of hotel

on pretext of having to make telephone call. Said she had

never met de CASTRO and his name not mentioned to her by

VALDES or anyone else in Havana.

On 2/9/60 Sgt. HILLMAN, Dade Co. Jail, Miami,

telephonically advised de CASTRO requested him to notify

SA GEORGE E. DAVIS he wanted to talk to him. On same day

SAS DAVIS and WILLIAM B. HOLLOMAN interviewed de CASTRO

who related he was desirous of pleading nolo contendere as

scheduled for 2/12/60 as his brother, ARTURO, of Havana,

would be in Miami that date. He believes VALDES also de-

sires to plead nolo contendere.

SAS HOLLOMAN and DAVIS took opportunity to question

de CASTRO further re this matter. He reiterated circumstances,

previously reported by this office, under which he had been

sent to Miami by EFIGENIO AMELJEIRAS, Chief, Natl Revolutionary

Police of Cuba, with instructions to contact VALDES and work

with him on a job. Said this was his first assignment after

being recruited into "Confidential A" section of Police by

FERNANDO FUENTES COBA, Chief of that section. De CASTRO was

named assistant to COBA..

Related he was not briefed by either AMEIJEIRAS Or

COBA, or by VALDES as to nature of assignment and did not

know it involved kidnaping plot until he contacted VALDES in

Miami•

- 2

CONFIDE

NTIAL

544.60

DooId: 32330439

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 1052307

De CASTRO said no one mentioned to him name of

CATHERINE TAFFE of any other woman prior his departure

1/27/60 for Miami:

Immediately after being released by

INS, Miami, on late afternoon 1/27/60 he contacted SA DAVIS

by phone.

Immediately thereafder he phoned VALDES at Miami

International Airport Hotel:

VALDES told him to call back

at 7:00 P.M.

Then went to home of uncle, ARTURO FERNANDEZ

de CAsTRO. At 1:00 phoned VALDES who instructed him to come

to the hotel. Proceeded immediately by taxi to hotel where

he met VALDES.

VALDES then briefed him and for first time he

learned this was kidnaping plot against ROLANDO MASFERRER®

Also, for first time, he learned a woman was involved.

VALDES told him an American woman arranged for them to meet

a Miami policeman at the hotel that evening.

No other

reference made to this woman; her name not disclosed by

VALDES.

After VALDES and de CASTRO arrested and placed

in jail, VALDES claimed to de CASTRO that this same woman

also arranged for a boat in Miami, an American boat captain,

and another man to transport MASFERRER out of Miami in

connection with the kidnaping.

De CASTRO said that on 2/8/60 his brother, ARTURO

FERNANDEZ de CASTRO, of Havana, visited him in jail.

ARTURO

told him the father of VALDES disclosed to him the American

woman who figured in this matter was CATHERINE TAAFFE.

Said

this was first time he ever heard her name.

Upon return to cell, he questioned VALDES about

TAAFFE..

VALDES said he first met her in Cuba in connection

with sugar business long time ago. Described her as woman

who has many friends who are big people and that she only

had to gelephone them to

get things done.

3

14 54460

DooId: 32330439

Page

---

## Page 5

CONFID

HAL

0

MM 105-2307

De CASTRO said VALDES also told him in jail that

whole plan in this case was his idea.

Noted de CASTRO has consistently adhered to same

basic story. Has record of previous reliability in his deal-

ing with this office: Miami of opinion de CASTRO has been

substantially factual and truthful in this matter. Believed

he has acted in good faith with the Bureau and will not

violate Bureau's confidence. It is also felt this incident

may enhance his position in "Confidential A" of the Police.

It is obvious, of course, the Cuban Govt. cannot admit com-

plicity in this conspiracy

On 2/11/60 TAAFFE furnished signed statement in

which she states plot to kidnap MASFERRER was conceived by

VALDES, and discussed with her in Havana in 1/60.

Said

plan presented to an aideto RAUL CASTRO by VALDES and this

aide agreed kidnaping of MASFERRER would be good idea and

said $50,000. could be allocated for plan. VALDES asked

TAFFE if she would contact Capt. LEE NAPIER of Miami PD and

see if he would assist them

Said conversations with VALDES

in Havana re

this matter extended about 1/5-13/60. TAAFFE

claimed she was never in favor of plan to kidnap MASFERRER

and suggested the Cuban Govt. use diplomatic measures to bring

MASFERRER back to Cuba®.

After plan developed sufficiently,

she then thought plan could be handled in such a way that

FIDEL CASTRO would get beached on some Bahama island; MASFERRER

would not be there, and British and U.S. Govts would be

notified; and this would have been excellent opportunity to

embarrass Cuban Govt.

Judging from all evedence developed in this case,

it appears info furnished to American Embassy by Sgt.

FERNANDO FUENTES COBA has little, if any, basis in fact and

is only attempt to hide complicity of Cuban Govt. in this

matter.

is 1° 8/92 moldal

PEGSEN FUL TRY

RECISE IN PART

PA: TOTAL DENIAL

4

CONE

NTUD

14 54460

DooId: 32330439

Page 5

---

