# docid-32172185

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

wrote.

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10175-10004

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82555-1ST NR 4859

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

LEG, LO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/31/1964

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LHO, POST-RP, ASSISTANCE, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC COVER MEMO AND LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32172185

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FK

20173

7668540/192

1-22.

Director, FBI

8/31/64

Legat, London

WARK LANE

6M - C

Butile 100-409763

Lontile 100-3247

(RUC)

SATIAL

BOWS

Baby.

Exemp

Tom GDS, Cate

Dat

of Del

assifi

cion Inder

JAMES DELANEY GARSI

Öswald

Bufile 100- 369096

Lonfile 100-2545

(P)

Renylet 6/30/64 under the above double caption, and re

mylet under the MARK LANS caption dated 8/17/64.

There are enclosed the original and six copies of a

IN setting forth information recolved from British

Security Servico, MI-5, on 8/25/64.

Ta] in the enclosure

Is MI-S and the information was classified SECRET.

Also

enclosed with each lll is a copy of an open letter issued

by Lord BERTRAND RUSSELL at the time of the formation of

the "Who Killed Kennedy Committee"

As it appears IANE has left England, this case 18

being placed in a RUC status.

formation

MI-S advises that any in-

received concerning the "who Killed

Kennedy

Committee" will be reported to this offices.

Intornation in the enclosed WIll shows GARST left

Ingland by air for Detroit on 6/30/64 and so far there

Is no evidence of his return.

Should the Bureau be able

to dotermine GARBT Is st111

in the U.s, London would

appreciate

being

advised.

Wi-o is continuing its inquiry

DECLA

FIED BY

ON 9

н9р

4 - Bureau (Enc.14)

1 - Llatson (Enc.2) (sent direet)

2 - London

CWB:vo

(7)

NOT RECORDED

199 SEP 18 1964

ZECH

ENT TẠL:

SEP 2 4.1064M

END DR

44559

DocId: 32172185

Page 2

---

## Page 3

(Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 ÜSC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C B

UNIT STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

clived by let. dated 6/25/85,

systematic reved b

La resent leese petratel So l 5/25/09

August 33, 1934

MARE LANE

JAUES DELINEE GARST

1, 2 confidential

source abroad, advised as follows

on August 25; 19641 (2)

MARE LANE Voltod the United Kingdom besucon April 16,

1504, when as arrived at londos aarport from copcahagen,

and Aprad 16. When be left Londen Airport for Ansterdam,

Rolland.

A secret Bad reliable source of 1-1 reported

that he had attended

The Eighth Congross of the Interna

Cional Assoctation of

Domocratio Lawyers (IADL) watch was

held in Budapest treo March 33 to Apral 6, 1084.

Continental press carried a story to the effect that ho

explainod his views in the Eonnedy assaselation and asked

IAn, to form an international comittee of noted lawyere

to discover the real cirenstances under which the

assacination ocourred (S)

a Kennedy

LANE

returued to neland on June 9, 1904, arrivias

at London Atsport from Copenhagen,

Denwack.

He was ac

companied by his fianceo Mies ANNE-LISS DABESIREN, a

decignor, born May

100194, craveling on a Danish pass-

DOC: No. 2302698;

Shortly aitor his arrival

ho attended

a press conferenco at the Airport which had beon arranged

by SAMS DELANEY CARST and ot which LANe agala expreased

his views on the Kennedy ascassination.

Ho also tole

reporters that BertRaND Russsle had welten to hin to say

cant no wishes to com an oceratoasion 30 giano to oc

0a2200 the "Who Billed Isonody Committeet

went on

to sev that tbe Cormittee had now been torpod, aLtaour a

chatmas, but with canst as socrotary.

They have received

sone publicity in the britist prose:

La particutar in

"Dally Worker" of June 13 and 30,

necording to LANd,

the cojects, on the comatice mere to cossect ano disseminate

avallable intornation and

evidence zelating to

. She no+

saéstnation of Preotdont Kennedy and to insure Justice for

the dewald family:

2-2 has no intormation to

shou to what

51:5/89

outent the Comittoo do actively pureuins these objecta t)(u)

Bry

1565-5DP/AHR

(5668520182

el Review

CAOR

FREED

19853KDDKSR

3-3-93

SSC R D3

a Categony L

9/8/99 - 5FK)

2-26-97

CLASSISED BY 56608 5KD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

Li. LAHORNATION CONTAINEI

LECT IS UNCLASSILIDO JAM

I WHERE SHOWN

SpECH

74ym

108

ENCEOSONS

12555-

JFK)

ZONe Ü859

DocId: 32172185 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECAST

KAM 09 80

have 101t LAckang

Lor Tierenco and

Reno: on June 20,

1086.

Do paid another viade to angland

betrect dune 21,

1804, when he arrivod at London Airport

From Brusseld;

Belgiun, and June 30, 1064, when he 108t

London f0* New York, baving boon recalled to appear botore

tho Wagran

Conniasion investigating Presidont Kapnedy's

death.

Dar dan

tate lateer visit he ald not

cone to 1-1's

attention:

With regard

to the "Who Willed Kennedy Committee?

the secretary, JAMAS DELANEY CARST, le Cabins A Greates

intorest in the Anarchiet novenent. Mo

left the United

mascon zor betroit by bat on dune 50, 1904,

and I-d hos

no ovidence

his retorn as set.

No has recently bedo

nades consideratten for appolaiment as tutor in

"Entra

Luzat Studioo at the University of Dazes Balonn 1n

Tangany 1ka.

19 unable to soy whosber ho will obtain

tato appointment.

which ts attached,

Letter lamed by Lood BEETRAND BUSSELL at the

tine ot

formation of the "To XilIod Vernedy Conittee,

other nonbers of the, comittoo ano. Ilated in paragraph 2

ot pago 0,

P-1 pelated out that none of the nonbors of

the Comalttee mere crasidered to

be Commists, although

they cover a large

spootrun of 102t-wing opinions and

have in yanying degrees boon publicly asseciated

organiaations ponetvated, and

in cono cases,

controlled

by the Conmunist

• Party o

Gront Britain.

(5)

This document contais neither

the wedlog of

10 1:

Tate.

tittle wood egencry

it and do conscale are not to be

detrated outside your agency.

BICA ST

RECHEL

105-82555 = 200N2485S..

DocId: 32172185

Page 4

---

