# docid-32332257

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assasination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90100-10475

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 52-72398-191

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SEE TITLE

FROM: [Restricted]

TO: OT

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

00/00/0000

3

[Restricted]

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS:

IC; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32332257

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

ALL

cORRESponDENCE TO BE

ADDRESSED: -#

THE COMMISSIONER,

R. C.M. POLICE,

OTTAWA

FILE NO. 59 HQ 1180-1-4 58

Your Ref: 52-16

HEADQUARTERS

ContidentiaDTTAWA, July 20, 1959.

CANADA

Mr. Moss Lee Innes?

F.Bol. Liaison Officer,

United States Embassy,

100 Wellington Street,

Ottawa, Ontario.

Dear Mr. Innes:

CLASSIRED AND

EXTENDED.

REASON

*Cita, Hi

DATE OF

DECLASSIFICALION

5415/29

1a0l8a

, Hanna, aka Maziy Hanna

(True lame),

Jack Perrone

"Speedo";

Norman Both To tout card essen: Untom

1 Carbine Rackoctober It, 1938; Theft of coverment

canton, 0hi0,

Property;

Interstate Transportation of Stolen

Property: Federal Firearms Act: Neutrality Matters

We refer to your communication dated June 3,

1959, and attach hereto for your information copies-of

self-explanatory Police report dated Montreal, July 6,

19590

It will be noted that it was felt there would

be no point in interviewing Cotroni, Cocolichio and

Croce.

3.27-95

Yours truly,

Classifies by 3668 SLuc

clevelana

Declassify on: DAUR (JFK)

7/30/59

nicer. in Charge,

CW.J. Goldsmith, Inspo,

Criminal

Investigation

Branch.

Enclo

52-72398-191

M1024

#,

Confidant 9a1

(c)

DocId: 32332257 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: ROYAL ZANADIAN

OUNTED POLICE

1180/1-20

213598-411539

wen.

SUB. DIVISION

DETAcHMENT MontreaL Post

PROVINGE

Quebec

DẠUE

JuLY 60 1959

a Stuart SUTOR and DaRieL HANNA - Theft of UoSo

Government Property

• Interstate

Bransportation of Stolen Property Federal Firearms Aot

Neutrality Matter • Assistance to F. BIo

In reference with the above caption and further

to correspondence received from the FoBIo dated 306-59 r00

MEADOVARTERD

39H9 218020-38

questing particulars on Montreal telephone number VIetorg:

antle te tie as ia0n8

20

The telephone number VICtor 9-0200 in Montreal, il

SUB-DIVISION

Montreal, Polo

This Club is one of the

biggest gambling es

tablishment in rontreal and is operated by Vincent COIRONI

brother o! Guiseppe dotroNI, the reputed leader of a narooties

DETACHMENT

ring in Canada.

ber on

The two telephone calls placed to the above won-

probably for jos

October LeMpoper cocorichio tastead of weper®

P.G.R.

3-2795

566854 Jack CROcE instead of Jack Crock.

JOs COCOLICHIO c. "Big Peppe

was the manager of the above club

and usually handle all tele

As for Jack CRUCE, asst manager of the said cine

is known as a gambler and a closed associate of the COtroNIus

brothers

RECENED

2UL 45 1959

MEADORA MENS

40

In accordance with a report submitted on the

20-5-59 under the heading re INTERNATIONAL DRUG TRAFFIO O

Divorale No son 189023 the writer mentioned the fact that

Samuel, HANNARINO

and William RABIN have been in Montreal ou

159 to January 14/59 and then on Jamary 20/59 to

Therefore no additional information is availa

le in this regard

In view of the foregoing, you will undlestand that

no results

will be achieved by interviewing the aioremensio

ned individuals and therefore this phase of investigation

will be considered closed at this porato

CONCLUDED HERE.

RoGo Barbeau)#15957-Osto

Mr. MontreaL, Drug Squado

DIARY DATE

SET FOR

ele

The Commissioner

R.CM. Police,

OTTAWA, ONTO

516184

FORWARDED.

As the information currently developed

appears to satisly your requirements I

am considering the

case as

concluded

OTHERWISE CONCLUDED

Montreal • I4o7-59

Asst • CoIBo

MILE NUMBERS. HEADING AND MARGINAL REFERENCE ARE TO BE PROPERLY FILLED IN

pridential

8950

999995

---

