# docid-32292376

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10209-10152

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-468

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

SAC, CG

FROM: SIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/19/1962

PAGES:

6

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, RES, GIRL FRIEND, ASSOC, MISUR

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

04/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32292376 Page 1

396

---

## Page 2

CG 92-350-Sub L

CG 6502-C* further advised on 3/10/62, that

VOGEL and LADON entered into a discussion concerning

the 58 karat diamond

bracelet that they had previously

discussed.

ALEX asked him about the bracelet and VOGEL

told him not to buy it. VOGEL said that he had at

appraised and it was only worth from $7,500 to $10,000.

ALEX asked VOGEL why didn't he take it to Trabert and

Hoeffer for an appraisal.

VOGEL told ALEX that he did

not have to take it there and that the place he took

it to could duplicate it, the work and all, for

about $10, 000.

ALEX asked VOGEL to let him look at it

again before he gave it back but VOGEL replied, "I'm

not going to give it back, he ain't in town".

VOGEL

stated,

"A guy like IRVING, he breaks it up,

he buys

it and breaks it up, understand, and you can't believe

him.

He's a liar"

It is believed that the IRVING

referred to by VOGEL is IRVING HORNSTEIN, Chicago top

jewel thief.

During this discussion LADON interrupted

and mentioned the name IRVING BURNETT but ALEX stated.

"No not him." It is believed that the

mentioned by LADON is actually

a

PCI of the Chicago Office.

During the discussion concerning the bracelet

ALEX mentioned "that Jew in the Fontainbleau, is he

got beautiful stuff. He's got merchandise that is

merchandise". It is possible that the person referred

to by ALEX above is MAXIE EDER, a well known jewel fence

and who was known to be at the Fontainebleau Hotel during

above to xI, D

the week of 3/5 through 9/62, when ALEX was apparently

in Miami: In discussing IRVING, EDDIE VOGEL also mentioned

that "IRVING is not around and that nobody is around."

This informant further advised that ALEX

mentioned to SUZANNE FUEGER that a man who resides on

the same floor as he does in the apartment was observed

by him at the Fontainebleau Hotel.

SUZANNE replied

that, "He must have left after you (ALEX) did because

I saw him in the elsator the day after you left."

OTHER 4

- 3 -

NW 45679 DocId: 32292376

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-350-Sub L

was smart she wouldn't have talked to them. She should

Don't come up

• to my place

anymore.

You have my attorney's

talk to you, I will talk to you, now please leave here."

SUZANNE stated that "She must have done some talking

because she just couldn't sit there and ignore them."

ALEX said,

"They told her that she has been out with

VOGEL. They know everything."

CG 6502-C* advised that on 3/11/62 ALEX was

talking to an unknown individual on the phone from his

apartment and mentioned that he would take HENRY's car.

Informant could furnish no further information

concerning this conversation. It is believed that the

HENRY referred to by ALEX is

• HENRY SUSK.

On 3/12/62, CG 6502-C* advised that ALEX

gave SUZANNE FUEGER the names of two doctors to call to

make an appointment to have a thorough examination.

The

two names which he gave to FUEGER were those of Dr.

GILBERT MARQUARDT and Dr. EDMOND FOLEY.

is a PCI of the Chicago Office. ALEX told FUEGER that

he didn't want to become involved in arranging for the

ant to become involved

examination because if she was not satisfied with the

findings of Dr. MARQUARDT she could then go to Dr.

FOLEY.

He stated that he did not want it to be known that he

sent her to Dr. MARQUARDT if SUZANNE later decided to

go to Dr. FOLEY.

Informant advised that on 3/13/62, SUZANNE

FUEGER was in the

apartment of ALEX in the morning and

they engaged in a short conversation concerning where

they should go for dinner that evening and if they should

accompany EDDIE and PEGGY to eat.

It is believed that

EDDIE and PEGGY referred to by them is EDDIE VOGEL and

PEGGY STRAK.

Informant advised on 3/14/62 that SUZANNE FUEGER

and GUS ALEX entered into a discussion concerning

SUZANNE's mother comming to visit them in Chicago.

is to be noted that SUZANNE's mother presently resides in

- 5 -

NW 45679 DocId: 32292376

Page 3

OTHER

.4

---

