# docid-32318829

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/13/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10366-10002

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : NO FILE NUMBER

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 00/00/0000

• PAGES:

223

SUBJECTS :

MIOG - 1963

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

• CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: REVISION NUMBER 48

V9.1

DocId: 32318829

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

..."

PSy 31, 1057

MANUAL

• OF RULES

AND RECULAIIONS

REVISION NUMBER 48

obsolete.

Jable 01 Costosts - Pagor 1

Page 5

Part I

Section 1

•Pages 1 and ?

Pages 3 and a

Sectios20

Pages land 2

Page 3

Seotios 3 = Pages

Pages

PaRes

and 2

3

and

Section a

Pages

PAROS

Pages

Pages

Pages

Pages

and 2

and

9 and 10

11

80d. 12

Sectios 5 - PREEB

• and ?

Pages

and e

Pages. 5 and 6

Page

SOOtIon 6 - POROs

Pages

Bad 2

and d

POLOS

Pago

Section 7 - Pagos 1 and á

Sootion B - Pares 1 Bad 2

Pages 3 and

Pagos 5 and 6

Pagos

sad 8

PAgES

and 10.

CLASSIFIER Y 5668 SLO/GGL

ASSIFY I

# 25x0x6)

(JFK) 10/259/98.

"nod brecheted pages only)

DocId: 32318829 Page 2

,AB: NEVISED. PAGES

Phopa Bre earmarated balon paged of the Manual of Rules sad

Bogalations, anolosed deronith, maich daTo doos saTiood.

ROTiNJOdA ApPeArIDE

The dato appoRTisE at the bottom

of the pagos dadioatos the

PhO sON DagOs Da.ulA Do LI-

Cortod 18 sha appropriato doodion and

the odd corraspondlar pages abould

to tha Spadial agout la Charge Who bae the sospoRe1-

Dalty dor she appropriato dostruOtion or theBe Odd pagoa.

Mla dover lottor abould de sotaled until the noxt cossacutively

This mill asablo the sLOld O1f1O0 Inbodiately

to doteot the fallure to racolve tbe latest saazal seria102s.

and

and

РАДОВ

Sectios 10 - PAGOs

Pades

Pages

Page

3

and 2

Bad

1

3

5

and

and

2

6

7

section 11 - Pages

Pages

3

and

sad

Section 12 - Pales

I sad 2

PAge

3

Section 13 - Pages

Pages

Pages

]

3

5

and

and

2

4

Sectios 14 - Pages

PagOs

Pañes

PageR

3

5

and

and

10

PAg

12

Pages 13 and 14

Page 15

Seotion 15 - Pages 1 sad

Pares 3 and

PagOs 5

sad

PIRBO Y

500t10826- I and

2

Paros

and a

and

PREOS 7 and

B

(Continuad of fOllOniDE page)

.:""

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

7.

PART II

SECTION B. MISCILLANIOUS RIGULATIONS

Information. desired from outside the field offioe territory

Investigative information from another field

division is to be

obtained by that office unless extraordinary baste requires direot

needed tid

When the exigencies of a case, emergenoles, or

доодошу and

oommon sense dictate, an employee, if authorized by

h1S SAC,

may estor an adjoining field division.

The SAC of the

enterod

division is to be advised immediately.

b.

Information which should be obtained by direot communiontion even

Tor disposition of arrests,

use YD-10 to obtain Inoompleto

1storustloni (for Distrlot of Columbia, pond ID-10 to the

Washlagton Tlold 011100 Instead of the polloe department). l

Mako notstion on identifloation rooord or other pertinent

sorlal in 11l0 that ID10 has been sent.

Whos ID-10 18

returned,

note pertinent information fron form 1s 11l0 and

forward ID-10 to Identifloation Division in lieu of & disposi-

t1os sheet (R-84).

N

Automobile registrations data

Driver'a licesse information

Similar data

1a u

Jillog of detainers with some agency

Status of detainers

Gorerament bonds - Use ID-123, concerning purchase or redemp-

t10ns; apecify information desired; send ID-123 11 duplicate.

0.

Investigations

in loreige countries

(1)

Agents

have no

jurisdiction in foreign coustries. Witbin

limitations border offioe Agents may, through liaison with

cooperative foreigo agencies

1n adjacent coustries, arrange

for investigations to be conducted.

This should be done in

a circumspect manner to avoid any allegation of a violation

of the sovereignty of the foreign country.

Where interviews

are conducted in a foreign country in the presence of and/or

at the request of a Bureau Agent, the Bureau Agent should

insure that the person interviewed understands that the intertiew

is being conducted by authority of the officer of the host

country and not the Agent.

This should not preclude the Agent,

mhere proper,

from discreetly assisting the foreign officer in

extracting all information of

Bureau interest during the interview.

Bureau Agents bave no

jurisdiction in foreign countries, no

power of

arrest, search, or seizure and must be most circumspect.

They are

not to be present at the scene of an arrest by foreign

authorities, participate in or be present during searches

incidental to such arrests,

accompany foreign officials trans-

porting prisoners, or

participate in interviews of prisoners

except at

their place of incarceration and in the presence of

foreign authorities.

The Agent should refrain from unauthorized

acts eves though invited to do so by the foreiga cooperating

officer.

(2)

Where official business requires more than two days in a foreign

country, authority must be obtained from the Bureau.

The letter

requesting it is sent UACB and must contain an estimate of the

time to be spent.

(8)

Deleted

Offices covering leads in Canada

Offices along

the Canadian border through liaison with coopera-

tive Canadian law enforcement agencies handle Canadian leads in

criminal matters where time is of the essence and l1 criminal

matters of local interest. Leads on security matters mere time

is of the essence or where previously approved by the Bureau are

handled with RCMP by border offices on a divisional headquarters

level.

ile the RCMP is exclusively charged with investigatio

¿ security matters in Canada lnot all personnel are indoctrinat

in the handling of these matters and personnel at detachment

levels may not be in a position to render adequate assistance.

9

927-62

DocId: 32318829 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

8B - C

PART II

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS

C.

not falling within the above categories should be

referred to

the Bureau for handling with RCMP beadquarters.

See section 4, D, la, (2), part II, of this manual for method

in which these leads are to be set out.

The Province of British Columbia - Seattle Office

The Provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan - Butte Office

The Province of Manitoba -Minneapolis Office

The Province of Quebec - Albany Office

New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland - Boston Office

The Province of Ontario - Buffalo and Albany Offices with the

exceptions as noted in subsections I, II, snd III.

Buffalo

As to baRdle leada rest of Trenton, Ontard detor aria.

I.

Albany is to handle leads east of

That portion of the Province of Ontario lying immediately

adjacent to the Detroit Office, including the cities of

II.

Windsor, Londos, St.

Thomas, and Chatham - Detroit Office

That portion of

the Province of Ontario immediately con-

tiguous to Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan - Detroit Office

III.

That portion of the Provisoe of Ontario immediately

north

the

of the northern boundary of Minnesota, including

cities of Port Arthur, Fort William, and Kenora -

Minneapolis Office

(5)

Offices covering leads in Mexico

Investigations within 25 miles

of the Mexican Border are handled

by border

offices on a liaison basis with the

exception of

San Diego Office which handles leads approximately 60 miles

south of the border, including the city of

Ensenada, Baja

California,

and the Phoenix Office which handles leads in

Cananea, Sonora.

Other leads are to be sent to the Bureau.

(a)

Ihe State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - Altuguerque

Office

The State of Chihuahua (contiguous portion) - El Paso Office

The State

- Phoenix

The States of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas - San Antonio

Office

Northern territory of Baja California - San Diego Officè

¿. Information relative to convictions, sentences,

and places of incar-

ceration received from USAs or judges need be verified by examination

of court records only when accuracy

questioned.

8. Title 18, USC, & 474, prohibits the photographing

of any national bank

currency,

Federal Reserve notes, U.S. or foreign government securities

or obligations,

except by direction of

some proper officer of the u.s.

However, part

404, chapter 4, title 31, of the Code of Federal Regulations,

grants authority to all banks and banking institutions to make filn records

of paper money, U.S. Government securities and checks, and to project

such records on a screen provided the film records are maintained as

confidential. This part states that so prints, enlargements,

film records may be made exoept with the permission

the secretary of the Ireasury,

the U.S.,

Public Debt,

Chief of the Secret Service Division,

or suoh officers as may be designated by them.

TESTIMONY OF AGENTS - RECORDS AND INFORMATION IN OFFICES OF THE BURIAU

1.

Confidential character of IBI records

Departmental Order 260-62, Isigned by the Attorney General onl1-19-62, 1

and published in the federal Registerl1-26-62,

supersedes/previous

Departmental Order 32291 (Revised) dated 1-13-53.1 It prescribes the

procedure to be followed when an employee is served with a

10

1-29-62

DocId: 32318829 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PART II

SECTION 9. CLASSIFICATION - CHARACIER - COPIES - ABBREVIATIONS

NSLI

•National Sortioe Life

Insurane

NSN

•Navy Serial Number

NSP

NSPF.

NUAT

....National Stolen Property

••National Stolen Property Pile

•National Unidentified

Ammunition File

oco.

OLK®

Obstruction of Court Orders

Offioe of Imergency

Planning

ONI

00..

.Office of Naval Intelligence

.......Office of Origin

0OJ

..... Obstruction of Justioe

OSD.

•Off10e of Secretary of Defense

OSIAF..

•Office of Special Investiga-

tions, Air Force

PARI....... Parenthesis

PBV.........Probation Violator

PCA......... Peace Corps - Applicant

[PCI.......

•. Potential Criminal

Informant]

PD.......... Police Department

PIRJ........Perjury

PMN......... Public Motor Number

( POB.

... Place of Birth]

PSI.

• Potential Security

Infornant

PSN..

pv...

PVIN.

..Public Serial Number

•Parole Violator

•Public Vehlole Identification

Number

RA..

•Registration dot

RACON. ......Racial Conditions

RCA...

• Red Cross Act

RCMP.

•Royal Canadian Mounted

Police

REBUCAB

• Reference Is Made to

Bureau Cablegram

RIBOLET.

Referenoe Is Made to

Bureau Lotter

REBURAD

•Roferenoe Is Made to

Bureau Radiogram

REBUTEL

RECAB.

RILET.

•Referenoe Is Made to

Bureau Teletype or

Telegram

•Referenoe Is Mado to

Cablegram

• Referenoe Is Made to

Letter

RERAD..

• Referenoe Is Made to

Radiogram

REREP.

•Rofereroe IB Made to

Report

RETEL.

•Reference Is Made to

Teletype or Telegram

REURAD.

•Reference Is Made to Your

Radiogram

REURCAB

•Reference Is. Made to Your

Cablegram

REUREP

•Reference Is Made to Your

Report

REURLET.

..Reference Is Made to Your

Letter

REURIEL

•Reference Is Made to Your

Teletype or Telegram

RECA

Reconstruction Finance

Corporation Act

RUC: ........Referred upon Completion

to Office of Origin

sA..........Speoial Agest

SAA.........Speclal Agent Accountant

SAB.........Sabotage

SAC.........Special Agent in Charge

SBA....

..Small Business Administra-

tion

20

9-27-62

DocId: 32318829 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection, Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

CHEY

MANUAL OF RULIS AND RIGULATIONS

ROJOPORDDA ATA dO PADE, roOtSOR, and pago.

KosignatiOna, I-12-1,7 (soo a100

DOPATBTLDS ITOE BOFTIOO.)

Resposalbility,

513158, 11-2-1

Reat

parlods,

I-168

Restrioted polloe tralding 11at

IT-1-12

Rostriotito mords or parason,

II-A33

RatontIon

of Buross satorial,

1-1-4

of property, II-B-19

Filate of BI-DOrTiOOnes, I-11-1,4

Rosirenest, Giril

serrioo,

I-15-1 (Soo a100

01T1 S0rT100

Rotirogent.

Rotara

sortillad nell,

II-3-34

aTIdon0e,

II-B-22

raglatorad as11,

II-3-2,158=

Renton

II-453

and appoal of perforaadoo ratiad,

1-10-1

of

alth ofroust o00rt

apposla,

II-B-22

Of ORDes pOsdIDE prOsedatiOs.

II-3-29

08

1dest1s1oation oardo, II-2-11

ReToltero,

bere retained,

II-31a

Road 1006, 1-19-1,000pt), I-2=3

Road toat,

Iaflure o1, I-13-3

rogulations, oporatiag Gororanest-oned

rohiolo,

I-13-2

Roud dra tox, 7225

I7-3-27,18

Rougt drafts,

Routine all pa,

II-A-50

II-452

T2342, tranomittal of lotterboad sena

Fanda and anonymous lottero

by, II-5-4,9; II-8-62

1111DE, II-3-7a

publications,

used to inforn dureau ro

statue

of.

reBerTe status,

advise

11-4-50;II-6-58

and

Buroau o!

obanges

sotion re,

I-12-5;

II-4-50g

Royal Canadian Mounted Police

oinal letter,

copy

loade in Canada,

to,

II-8-26

II-B-9

Rules for grading tests.

1-8-1, 2, 4, 5, 7

Ru? от 80881P41-900%

reporting,

SAC

abBeRCe ITOn OfflOe,

II- 2-2, 3

annual leave,

4-8; II-2-3

anard letters,

presentation

clerioal employee under

1Ore180 tranBIer: I=l

roule? letter to bankir

institutione,

ontereroe,1-6r90* Agenta, annual, II-1-1

oalliag apos by sAC, II-6-8

defialtion,

Indez, poRsession of, II-68

daily roporto.

exolualte juriadiation, II-?-1

escoutlag

SOTIO

ST-1094, II-7-24

receipt lot

GRe on Land then traDe-

forted, II-7-1

FBI National doademy, II-1-6,6a,6b,7

Government

employment polloy, responalb1l1tios

те,

1-103.

transportation coquosta, 198u.d00 0f.

bouging

II-7-1

inspectiot of flaces rocommeadod to personnel

10r, 1-14-2

make certain employees not 11T1D8 1=242

Inspections,

1492-1011035-9,906058,

SAC (oostlanad)

Agants approted for suportidory or adelaila

tratiTo

aponasbalition

I-7-1

applionnts handled

properly and dotararo o

sourood do complato,

I-10-3

IntorTIoNIaL BaTODU OsplOyDO aupiTIDE to dgont

10010, I-101f1411os, I-2-2

lottaro.

II-451

аррота, 10-452

ПаДлІДІ

II-3-5

aproduoing

11-2-18

moonrity afforded.

II-3-1811-4-51

11st of

lorioni asployons diy trado and BOD, I-61

sabalaalon of,

0081 M01008

ollon 1astrot058, 01d11

109-6, 17-2-0,10

contaate, IT-09

rooordisg roloo,

28 091000 19-607: 13-8-2,20

bandlinE of to robolto propos supertialos,

1DIOTI BUTORE OuTrostly to, II-OSa

12111a1118 obasgos

lost afenoles, inspootion o1,

° 11-2-10

nted with work of bofore roooomonding, II-2-7a

10Д О8, IІ-2-8

от1, C1-0, 11-4-26

зДаДое оз

0Is10e, II-3-1

§rapho,

study of,

II-8-23

esty,

II-3-1

eguipment, II-463

personael,

I-12-1

reTier of instruotional books or morking

guldes,. II-310

Beaurity of

apoolal

II-463

в розківв

resentatiOn o

to reced

•gagomenta

intertion,

ropos

I-3-2

ot

prosess of aaploydea

traTol

statue,

11-2-3

trainisg of employees

I-12-4, 5

travel of

II-2_3

bereaboute of,

1I-2-2,.

saig-depopit boz,

II-3-12:II-8-21

Sefe

driving ro

005t1f1oat1os,

paot, I-13-1

Safeguarding 1010111 genoe Intorastlos

Ixcoutive Ordas 10501, II-453

spoojal oostrol sarklago, II-457

Salon

sodo booke and osphor pado Kopt 18, II-A-59

005b158$100, 1J-3-10

12a pootion 08, II-3-1

israatory o1,

II-3-1

II-3-1a

Sa901y-001901008 attitados,

SAlAry

I-1411

ente 11, 45 Fall o8, 302248

statonoat of amployoo ro donotion to do sost

with o osand on t100

Salo of

OATO, II-7-21D

L1oonao plates, disposition of, II-7-20.

proporty,

II-7-20

Salos tiokata, II-7-23

SAMBA,

I-141lb

I-14-11D

for dependento,

30

7-31-62

DocId: 32318829 Page 6

---

