# docid-32325425

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-90035-10322

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER: 122-2424-NR

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: DEPT. OF JUSTICE

FROM:

DOJ/CRIM

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 03/08/1960

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT: BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

06/10/1998

Exempt

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

MEMO, REFERRED TO DOJ

DocId: 32325425

Page 1

---

## Page 2

the Joan F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 10-1AF2017/Vemoranaum 2017Vemoranaum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. *

TO

Director, fe

Bureau of Investigation

ITB:

: 1960

FROM : Malcolm R. Wilkey, Assistant Attorney (eneral,

Criminal Division

MRU: AMF:0:21

SOLJECT:

Dward F. Weinheimer

Ferjury

57-16-580 г. 1

We are in receipt. of a photostetic copy of a letter dated

February 13, 1960, addressed to Honorable danes i. Morris, Uniten

States üistriet Court Judge, from George w. Hendrickson, #30410,

New Jersey State Prison Farms, Lock Bag H, Kanway, New dersey.

Accoruine, ic tilis letter, Hendrickson requested that he be inter

viched by a menber of the Senate Rackets Committee as he claims

that he "can be of grave importance to one of todays top problens."

livan

:11

The above described letter was forwarded to us by the Senate

Maripte ionalit for our attention.

It is requested, therefore,

Then you alert derrickoon rearing the in ormation he may

as incestor in his letter.

Dos your assistance, there is attricher hereto two photo

static copies ci Hendrickson's letter.

Attachment

1/21 - 24.

NOT RECORDED

R41 MAR 16 1960

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN

3/10/18

MAR

15

137

5 I MAR 21 1960

DocId: 32325425 Page 2

---

