# docid-32298964

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/10/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

124-10224-10244

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

61-10448-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

DIRECTOR, FBI

[Restricted]

DATE: 06/26/1940

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

TOLSTOY FOUNDATION, TOLSTOY, ALEXANDRA, INQUIRY

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/07/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC TG

v91

DocId: 32298964

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Releaset under the

DATE: 11-14-2017

USC

Note).

IU1S1

Nel

SOGRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

& 6. OEOARTMENT OF JUSTICE

MOMUCNICATIONS SECTION

JON 2 2 1940

WASTURN ONION

CONFYSENTIAL

Mr. Parent

Mr laddi.

Mir. Mathan,

Mr. Hi. A. Tant

Mr. Ngoo

Tr. Salarin

Mr. Nichola

•Mr. Ilindoo..

MATr. Rosen ..

Mir. Treos

REC BI11 WH

FBI INTES

Clara sinto

60.855

Excret f

Date of

3/13/28

20

WH1S 48 XU

OTTAWA ONT JUNE 22 1215P7

Classited l

Declassif

J EDGAR HOOVER, DIRECTOR

i lift..

FEDERAL BU OF INVESTIGATION US DEPT JUSTICE

IMMIGRATION ADVISES COUNTESS TOLSTOI AT PRESENT NEWYORK

ASKING FOR PERMISSIRA, TO COME TO CANADA

FOR FEW DAYS FOR PURPOSE ATTENDING DOUKHOBOR

GATHERING IN SASKATCHEWAN STOP PLEASE ADVISE IF

HER ACTIVITIES IN UNITEDSTATES WILL RECOMMEND HER

AS BEING SUITABLE PARTY FOR ADMISSION TO CANADA

PRESENT CONDITIONS

BEING CONSIDERED

T WOOD

118P

BREBIANC

00 5/3/85

CONFIZENTIAL

2801:

RECORDID

101÷10448-1

INDEXEDEDERAL BUREAU OF INVEST'

3

JUL

3

194

UPS. DEPARIRENA OF SI

DocId: 32298964 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under

the

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy

note].

KHM : CJ

10181

June 26, 1940

ERSONATE AND

RECORDIE 1-10448-1

INDEX

Bonorablo S. I. Food

Cornissioner

Royal Canadian Mountod Police

Obtana, Ontario, Canada

Mr. Tolson

air, pathan

Tammo

My dear Comissioner:

Classing hu

Врьетвівся

Badassis

843185

- 5311

66 526-94

Isferone 10 nade to your telegran of June

In booping with your request, ploase be advised that

the Mles of this furcau have beon omnined and the only fa

fornetion available indicates that Countess Alemnire folotoy

hao conducted a sories of lectures of an anti-Commist

nature in rarloud parts of the Urited States.

For your assistance, I em trananitting heroith one

photostetio copy of a Icallet advertising the lecture courses

which Countons Tolstoy has condueted.

Assuring you of my desire to cooperate with you in

all nattoro of antual interest,

U

Sinceraly yours,

Enclosure

AIR HATE

SPECTAX, DELIV

classiestion opteld

68558m3/13/78

DAhL DIG

113-94

Mr. Meintire

•MT. Miotiols.

Mir. Permington

Mr. Hopes

Mr. Quinn Tarant

Adm. Files

pers. Elles

Tour Roari

Mr. Tracy

CAIMUNICATIONS SEATION

WALLED

SUM 8 1340

SENERO: BURSAL OF INCESTIGATIONS:

1, 8. DEPARTMENT OF SORE 70

DocId: 32298964 Page 3

---

