# docid-32286362

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-10195-10138

HQ

92-3171-1764

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/29/1965

1

DOCUMENT TYPE:

GLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, ACT, ORGANIZATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/10/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

.v9.1

DocId: 32286362

Page 1

91

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-3 (Rev. 12-14-64)

Note).

DECO

• CABLEGRAM

PY

/Tolson

'Belmont

TELETYPE

De Loc

Caspe

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Sullivan

Tavel.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes.

Gandy

Get nor

• AIRGRAM

XX

R

IDIO

•R- 61

DEFERRED 9-29-65 12:32 PM

TO DIRECTOR

FROM CHICAGO

291544

mcas

ANTIRACKSTDENLIG

SAMUEL MO GIANCANA, AKA, AR DAILY SUMMARY.

CG 6792-0 ADVISED THAT JOHN CAMPANOLLI RECENTLY IN CONTACT

WITH MARSHALL CAIFANO, FROM THIS DISCUSSION IT APPEARS THAT

WHEN GIANCANA FINALLY DOES GAIN HIS FREEDOM FROM COUNTY JAIL

HE WILL NOT-RESUME LEADERSHIP OF CHICAGO ORGANIZATION.

CAMPANELLI CLAIMS GIANCANA, THROUGH ANTHONY TISCI AND ANTHONY

"THROUGH ANTHONY TIST AND ANTHONY !?

CHAMPAGNE HAS SENT OUT WORD THAT HE FEELS THAT THERE HAS BEEN

TOO MUCH HEAT FROM FBI PLACED ON HIS ACTIVITIES WHICH HE FEELS

WILL CONTINUE IF HE ATTEMPTS TO AGAIN TAKE OVER LEADERSHIP.

GIANCANA ALSO INDICATED HE WOULD LIKE TO GET AWAY FOR AWHILE

WITHOUT HAVING THIS CONSTANT PRESSURE ACCORDING TO CAMPANELLI

THE ONLY PROBLEM WITH THIS SITUATION IS FACT THAT NO CLEAR CUT

SUCCESSOR CAN BE FOUND. SAM BATTAGLIA CONTINUES IN NAME AS

PRESENT HEAD OF ORGANIZATION BUT DOES NOT WANT RESPONSIBILITY

AND TO DATE HAS SHOWN NO INCLINATION TO ENTER INTO DAY TO DAY

AFFAIRS OF HOODLUM ORGANIZATION CAUSING SOME IRRATION ON PART

OF LESSER MEMBERS. J

RECEIVED: 1:21 PM

MCS

BETAG

30/65

ALL INF

CATION

I CONTAINED

PERIN IS UATIONS FREE IN

REC- 60

DATE 4. 24-84 BISP5eS

ME. BELMOXT FOR THE DIRECTOR

Being diamonste

F. 6..

EX 110

12=3121-1764

OCT 26 196

Fin"

1965

_CC: MR. GALE

¡the intelligence contained in the above messaze is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32286362

Page 2

---

