# docid-32293693

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10211-10469

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/17/1960

14

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

DLH, ASSOC, EMP, MIL SERV, MED/PERS HIST, RES

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

1B; 1C; 4

Redact

05/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC MEMO

v9.1

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 1'

14

---

## Page 2

SECRET

MAILED 10

COMM-FBI

Tổlson

Mohr

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

DeLoach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W-C. Sulliva

Gandy

5)

1 = Jo Do Donahte

1 - Linton

SAC, New York

Director,

(34-4214)

REC- 9

(131-8502) - 9

March 2, 1960

#211,326

Classifies. try

Dockstly on /e80n3755155

Mut

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN, aRO.

IS - R

O:39943-26-916

diASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/ASN

Reurlet 2/17/60. (e) 4)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

5668540 mse 12/12/92

Authority granted to recontact subiece to

ГКК)

further her development as an informantlor double

agent for use against the Soviets in New Vork. (5)

You should make certain that subject is

aware that her cooperation with us is a voluntary

matter on her part.

She should be aware of the fact

that she is not a

Bureau employee. Your contacts

with her should not be conducted ot any institution

of learning,

it being noted that she isod public

school teacher in New York CIty•S (U)

In view of subject's possible personal

involvement with soulets, who have been assigned

to the United Nattons in New York and the fact thats,

subject has expressed an interest to "clear her

name, you should be caraful to avoid disclosure

to her of any signiticant detail of our interest

En any particular Sovieto You should endeavor to (S

verify any inforuation she furnishes us, particularly

during

the early steps of her development. You

should make certain that subjeet is not a plant and

your handling of her should be in accordance with

Section 107, Marual of Instructions.

ALL INFORMATION CONTASKED

432N161

ASSIFIED

1:G121

WHENE SHOWS,

LML: bcm

(5)

((u)

subject

is single female teacher in public

schools of vYC.

She is a former teacher of English,

Berlitz School on New York.

While so employed she

taught English to several Soviets assigned to the UN. S

She was being

the hing that can a ren to a nud en

involving

the Amtorg

Trading Corporation in 9/59. She has

continued hei

social acquaintance with soviets from

9/59 to

1/601S

Isee note gonto page 21] (ü)

F157

GUELETYPE UNIT

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Letter to SAC, NY

134-8502

[vote continue: I/u)

She advised on interview 1/28/60[that a soviet, who was LSJ

•departing the U.S. 1/27/60, came toher apartment, brought

her gifts and kissed her good-by, on 1/22/60.. She is

acquainted with two soviets in unom we have a substantial

current investigative interest.

These are Leonid Rovalev

and Vuri Mishukov, who are both employed at the UN:

Secretariat It is believed that subject has potentials

as an informant and we should take advantage of her

apparent willingness to furnish information, but it is

believed that Ny. should be specifically cautioned as above

in view of the personal interests subject has in endeavoring

to clear her name as well as her personal interest in

Soviets. "Subject's uncle was the subject of a security(s

of government employees: investigation and there is

derogatory information on him and some of her relatives.

She is apparently unswaring subversive information

regarding her relatives. She has applied for positions

with the State Department and with the Department of

Defense and has not received favorable consideration.

She is concerned about this but there is no indication

that she has been denied employment because of derogatory

security information.

# 70(4)

* 4)

2 - SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 3'

---

## Page 4

'SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORANDUM

TO

: DIRECTOR, FBI (134-8502)

FROM : SAC, NEW YORK (134-4214)

SUBJECT:

ANNETTE SYLVIA EPSTEIN aka

IS-R

DATE: 2/17/60

8,9,10

ReBulet 12/28/59($ (u)

JFK JFK)

On 1/21/60, subject was interviewed at her residence,

345 West 88th Street, Apartment 7-E, New York Cily, by sAS

WILLIAM V. SCHMALTZ and RICHARD W. HILL.

This niberwew nas

not pre-arranged with the subject, and after approximetely

30 minutes the subject stated she would have to leave as she

nau a prior appointment. (a)U)

On 1/28/60,

interview with the subject was

completed D$ SÁS PRANKIN E FaSTER and CHARO W. HI. GETU)

The Bureau's jurisdiction regarding the Internal

Security of the United States was explained to the subject

and her exoperation was solicited in that resard feu

1

1

- Bureau (RM)

• •New Yorka

105•13781' Sub E)

New York

(105-31308)

(GRYAZNOV.)

111111:

New York

105-20553

FEDORCHENKO!

New

York

105-12456

IVANOV)

New York

New York

105-22603)

(LEVYTCHKEN)

(105-30803)

New

York

UDOVICHENKO

Classifies boBTAliaL,

Declassity on

DADR 3122/8

# 211,376

(5)

At.

1105-27651

KOVALEV)

New

York

105-27649

(MISHUKOV)

New

York

(105-32886)

(GARRIGUE

COM

15 HNCLAS21

WHERE SHOWN

S TABAWISE

New

York

134-4215)

-

(Administrative)

New York

(105-37990) (HARBER)

-New York (1C5-New) (AMERICO SALEBE )

- New York

(105-New) (ED PYDE)

-

• New York

105-37955)

(BERBERI)

REC-54/34-8592

- New

York

134-4214

- New

York

(134 4214)

Anveststrative)

Investigative)

RWH: cam

(18)

102

(4/50

3/1/60

NW

45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 4

SECRET!

---

## Page 5

SECRET

(v)

[ve 234-4224014)

She related that she is presently employed by the

New York City Board of Education,

teaching the Stl. and 9th

graces at PS 135, Bronx, New York.

She stated that she

contemplates moving to her parents residence, 3871 Sedgwick

Avenue, Bronx, New York, in a week or so since it takes too

long for her to commute

for her work in Manhattan where

she has resided since October, 1959.

Subject said that she had been employed as an

Erglish teacher by the Berlitz School of Languages, hockefeller

Center, New York City, from January,

1958 to March, 1959, [and

that she had met several Soviets in the course of this

employment.

The soviets are:l5)

NIKOLAEVICH. GRYAZNO!

BeT Russiar

Permenent Represent ative to the (S)

United Nations)

YAKOVLEVICH FEDORCHENKO

(was First Secretary of Soviet Delegation to the

United Nations)

(5)

BORIS SEMENOVICH IVANOV

(Was Counselor of the Soviet Delegation to the

(5)

United Nations and is a known agent)

(9)

KLIMENT DANILOVICH LEVYTCHKEN

(was Deputy Permanent Representative of the Soviet

United Nations Delegation)

PETR PLATONOVICH UDOVICHENKO

(thied in formanent Representative to the (8)

United Nations)

-2 -

SECRETI

514)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 5

---

## Page 6

[SECRED I

(v)

[NX 134-4224](4)(u)

In addition she stated that she had taught several.

of the Soviet's wives but that they were very timid and non-(5)

déscript,

and she could not recall their names. X

She said that she first met FEDORCHENKO in February, S OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

1958 and saw him almost daily at Berlftz thereafter.

Shortly

after meetino him she stated that she, JORRIE CARRIQUE,

and occasionally. ED PVDE,

Berl.itz teachers, would take coffee breaks with FLOnEls anc

BORIS IVANOV: Then in May, 1958, GARRIGUE, PYDE, and

accepted an invitation to accompany (IVANOV and FEDOCHENKO (5)

to the Russian Tea Room, West 57th Street, New York City,

after classes at Berlitz.(7)

EPSTEIN continued to see FEDORCHENKO frequentif 5)

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

at the Berlitz school.

She next saw him socially at a

gathering at the home of Madam (FNU) LEVITSKY (PH), on

West 73rd Street, New York City, one night in June,

1958.

IVANOV attended at

(S)

invitation.

She said the group there consisted of amateur

musicians who played together for their own pleasure.

She

said she did not know anyone else there or had been there

since.

Also in June, 1958,

gave a party at his

apartment at 160 Claremont Avenue

New York City, which

EPSIEIN attended.

• She said that IVANOV had been unable tos)

come and had sent LEONID KOVALEV in his place. (FEDORCHENKOLS)

GARRIGUE

and subject attended as well as some of

friends, whom she cannot now recall.

She stated that

DENNIS HARBER, a Berlitz teacher, attended this party,

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

anthing unusual that transpired al

HARBER became very drunk and disorderly.

-3 ÷

SECRET

(se) и

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 6

---

## Page 7

[ 234-424 * (u)

In August or September, 1958, EPSTEIN said that she OTHER 1B,1C, 4

gave a party when she had an apartment

at 120 West. T3rd Street.

She said that she called KOVALEV at the United Nations and S

Invited him,

requesting him to bring some of the other Sovlets S)

as ther would be an attraction at the party.

She stated that

_ GARRIGUE, HARBER, and his roommate AMERICO SALEBE

were there. _KOVALEV came

and brought YURI I. MISHUKOV and

BORIS (LNU) .

was away at the time.

She said that her roommate, then GEMMA HERBERI(S

There were approximately 50 people

there,

some of her friends from college and later acquaintances.

She stated that she had noticed MISHUKOV listening to a S

heated discussion in Spanish by Ewo Latin Americans with

particular interest but does not now recall who these people

were or who invited them.

She explained that she had asked

her friends to bring people to the party so that she doubts

whether she met'all of her guests. Toward the end of the

party she said that one of the Soviets]suggested that thes

play a Russian]party game.

The same turned out to be "Spin?s

the Bottle"

, and the Soviets showed surprise when told 1tls

was an old American game.

She said that the Soviets then,

rather self-consciously

acknowledged that it had been a

joke. She could recall

no other details of this party.

She stated that she had gone to Europe for a

vacation in 'June and July, 1958 and had visited her uncle,

NELSON CHIPCHIN in Nuremberg, Germany, where he is employed

by the USIA, and her

aunt, LISA ROSENBERG, Howard Hotel,

London, England. (50 (4)

She saw FEDORCHENKO sometime in the Fall of 1958 S

and he inquired what she had been doing; she said that she

told him of her trip to Europe and of her visits to her

aunt and uncle.

SECRET

-4-

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693

Page 7

---

## Page 8

NIx 234-12 (u)

EPSTEIN does not recall having seen FEDORCHENKO S

Square Garden, New York City, and saw FEDORCHENKO and KOVALEVS)

Later in July, she and|

KOVALEV and MISHUKOV and spoke. to them briefly.

Trade Fair at the coliseum New York cIty, where they met (5)

In september, 1959,

FEDORCHENKORE the United Nations to entist has help in ased

setting up a business teaching English to the various United

Nations delegates and employees SEPSTEIN said that she

intended to hire former Berlitz

Instructors to do the

teaching and she asked FEDORCHENKOTto assist her in lining

up prospective clients.

TFEDORCHENKO told her that he could

not help her as he was too busy.

In October, 1959, EPSTEIN said that she and l

contacted KOVALEV at

the United Nations for the same purpose

and that KOVALEV also was unable to help.

She stated thats

she had no further contact with the Soviets until December,s

1959, when she telephoned FEDORCHENKO at the Soviet Unitec

Nations Delegation to give him her new (present) address(s)

and to invite himto a party at her apartment on 12/20/59

He accepted the invitation but did not come or call.

It is noted that subject stated that she moved

to her present address in October, 1959 and that she had

Bronx, New York C

enlousy toned th her mother at 3872 Sediwick Avenue,

÷5 ÷

SECRET

OTHER 1B,1C,4

OTHER 1B, 1C, 4

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 8

---

## Page 9

SECRET S

(4)

C

[x 234-4224 f(u)

On 12/14/59, NY 536-S* Peported that an unknowr

woman had contacted FEDORCHENKO and had invited him to als

party at her address, 345 West

New York City, telephone EN 2-2614.

Ageet, Apartment 7-l,

at her apartment 1/22/60, in order to give her a present.

she said that he told her that he would not

return to th

nited States again for at least two years.S)she said that he

nad come to the apartment and had given her a bottle of

Georgian wine, imported from Russia.

She stated that

(S) EEDORCHENKO walked about the apartment opening doors and

asked how much rent she paid, and generally

"snooped" around.

He told her that she was too much of a

gad about

and said that she should settle down and get

married.

EPSTEIN stated that when she first began getting

5 Soviets as English students at Berlitz she enthusiastically

began to tell them about the United States and gave

S FEDORCHENKOl a bool

that the sovietsiuld be interested un learnin babut the

country to which they were assigned.

After doing this for

about two weeks she said that she realized that [the Soviets] 5)

were not interested and that they "heard only what they

wanted to hear"

She recalled during the interview that

(5) FEDORCHENKO] had not returned her book nor had he ever

mentioned it after she gave it to him.

-6 -

SECRET ER)(U)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 9

---

## Page 10

(X 234-422980(4)

she stated that [the Soviets She has met have been

very awkward with the social niceties and were given to

expressing

'peace loving

people of the United

that they were

reticent and made her job of teaching

unglish very difficult as she could not get them to tall

about themselves.

She stated that[FEDORCHENKO]was anS

exception, perhaps because he prided himself on has alaty

to speak English.

She stated that unlike most pupils, FEDORCHENKO]S)

spoke English better than he understook it, perhaps due to

his showoff attitude concerning English.

During the course of her acquaintanceship with

S FEDORCHENKO, she stated that he had learned of her background.

She said that he would insist that she was a Ruesianat hearts)

as well as by parentage while she would maintain that she

was an American..

She related that_ she once had a copy of

'Dr. Zhivago" at Berlitz and that FEDORCHENKO picked it upS

thnew: it on the floor and asked her why she read such

trash.

one said that she became angry and told him that

that was no way to treat her property and that she considered

it a great literary work.

She said that there had been

several incidents like that with FEDORCHENKO]but that it (5)

had never marred their friendship.

speak to her Un has shat and shen, her

occasionally FEDORCHENKO WOuld

EPSTEIN did not →

respond, he would look surprised and then said he had forgotten

that she did not speak RusslanJ(5)

- 7-

SECREM

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 10

---

## Page 11

[SECRET TE

(")

[x 134-4214 f*(U)

EPSTEIN said that her only interest in the Soviets IS

was to learn their viewpoint and out of

hat her relationshin with FEDORCHENKO Euld not be irscribe

as a persoral one as they. really had nothing in commis

since she had only been touched once by FEDORCHENKOWhen

he kissed her goodbye on 722/60. She said that there really

was no basis for their friendship except a desire on hoc

part to understand the SovietsCotivated by her intersat

in international affairs.

She said that she felt thas she

"exploited" them by asking them to parties were they

would be the main attraction.

Concering BORIS S. IVANOV 2}

EPSTEIN stated that he

apparently was [EDORCHENKO'S superior inasmuch as FEDORCHENKO]S)

deferred to him constantly.

She described IVANOV as beings

quite reticent and expisinid that she once complimented him

on a new suit he was wearing and asked him where he had

bought it...

He replied "in Landorl' and then procèeded to praise

the merits of Russian made clothing(S)

Concerning LEONID KOVALEV,

EPSTEIN stated that he

was a wolf and that she did not like

EPSTEIN gave the following information regarding

her former associates at Berlitz:

a former English teacher at

EPSCUIl said that

she at one time considered going to Moscow co. study music

at the Moscow Conservatory.

recently that GARRIGUE had been married.

EPSTEIN sald that she had heardly)

- 8 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 11

---

## Page 12

(SECRET /C

IN 134-4224/081(4)

, is a former English

teacher at Berlitz and is now an

• instructor of the tapanese

language at Columbia University.

EPSTEIN stated thac

Jhad lived in Japan for a number of years and Diat

up until recently he had been an English instructor for

the employees of the Amtorg Trading Corporation, New York(S

City.

is a very close frieno

of hers

EMMA, BERBERI

Nas EPSTEIN'S roommate at 120 West Y3rd Street, Iron

approximately June through

that BERBERI could bearly speak English and that to her

knowledge BERBERI had never

н g bayen at not

a-former Italian teacher at Berlitz,

september, 1958.

EPSTEIN said

associated with the Soviets.s

DENNIS

MAR a old deal of Interest

by

BORIS S. IVANOV

and FEDORCHENKO while at berlitz.

HARBER

never finished nigh school.

He was in the Army in World

War II and suffered a severe emotional shock which now

upsets him from time to time and causes him to get

intoxicated

in order to get relief.

She stated that he

had received treatment for this condition at Veterans

Administration hospitals.

She said that he is very

intelligent and perceptive but appears to have no

She said that he once told her that

he wanted to go to Puerto Rico to live, where he would be

• Veterans Administration hospital so that he could

take treatments if necessary. EPSTEIN noted that HARBER

She said that the last address

she had for him was 454 West 22nd Street, New York City,

telephone CH 3-7208.

She also related that HARBER had had

a roommate at that address,

whom,

to the best

of her recollection,/was employed at

Idlewild Airport

VENEZUELA.

OTHER 4

OTHER 1B, IC, 4

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

uj

(u)

÷91

SECRET #(U)

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 12

---

## Page 13

NY 134-42147

(жи)

Russians keen he dad, us, ant arratated at tha

Jhad and That

PYDE was at Berlitz as

an English

teacher only a short

time.

She said that he was married to a German nationtl

in Germany,

and that he now lives in New Jersey, and has 3

children.

Subject's Desire to Clear Her Name ] # 14)

During the interview EPSTEIN stated that she had

twice applied for jobs with the United States Government and

was sure that she had been accepted both times only to be

refused employment at the last moment. She feels that since

Last ponene.

she was qualified for both positionshernor ecceptance could

is not aware.

Day be due to some allegation of disloyalty of which she

She has always been interested in international

affairs and so she applied to the United States Department of

State for the position of foreign service officer.

She passed

the written and then the oral examination and felt that she

would be appointed.

She then had an interview with a security

official at the Department of State when she submitted her

Personal History Form, at which time she was asked if there

was anything in her background which would reflect unfavorably

on her and she said no.

Approximately two months later she

said that she received a letter from the State Department

informing her that

she was not being employed.

She then

wrote to the State Department protesting her loyalty to the

United States stating that her no acceptance could only be

Department then replied that its actions should not be

construed

OTHER 1B,1C, 4

- 10 -

SECRED

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Iy 134-4224 7(4)

In the

Winter of 1958 she stated that she applied

for a position with the United States Army to teach schni

in a school for the children of United States Militz

Personnel stationed in Germany.

She said that she had even

received the necessary Innoculations from the Army when

she was again zefused employment. (lU)

EPSTEIN stated that she feels she was penalized

for something of which she was not aware, not for any

actions of her own and she, therefore, desired and felt

it necessary to "clear her name"

She stated that she is

sure that she has never done anything detrimental to the

best interests of the United States and that any allegation

of her disloyalty must be due to miesaire. (lu)

She stated that she knew her uncle NELSON CHIPCHIN

had been investigated at one time but that he had been

cleared and he is still employed by USIA.

She stated that she

visited CHIPCHIN in Germany after being turned down by the

State Department and he suggested that she had not been

employed because young women are likely, to marry and married

wonen are not allowed in the service.

EPSTEIN stated that her mother,

while sympat etic

pecause of these two rejections, was very happy that she

would be staying in this country.

EPSTEIN 1s apparently unaware of the subversive

Information regarding her relatives. (gu)

Recommendations] (u)

EPSTEIN was very cooperative during the interview

and she- appears to be an intelligent straight-forward individual (

и)

- 11 -

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 14

---

## Page 15

(SECRED 80(4)

[LE 234-4214] (4)

From what she relates of her association with FEDORCHENKO,

it would appear that FEDORCHENKO would have made an astero

to recruit her had

she not been so outspoken in insiegin!

EPSTEIN has met several (Soviets, CS

who are still in the country and would be able to maintain

contact with them in a natural manner

It 1s felt that she (g)

has good potential as an informant for double agent. (S

Bureau authority is requested to contact the

1e a acole agent 6)

subject for the purpose of developing her as

an informant

5-12-

SECRET

NW 45808 DocId: 32293693 Page 15

---

