# docid-32561700

## Page 1

1P-36 (Рей. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 5/8/62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

: DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2717)

ANGELO BRUNO,

PH 627-PC advised SA EDWARD D. HEGARTY on 5/7/62

that he visited New York City from Saturday night, 5/5/02,

through early Monday morning, 5/7/62. Informant stated that

he went to New York with JOHN CAVELLI, aka Ice Cream,

a close associate of PHILIP TESTA, who is BRUNO's Chief

-leutenant and who controls BRUNo's Philadelphia numbers

operation.

Informant stated that while in New York, he and

CAVELLI stayed at the residence of DAN CHERICO (phonetic),

1009 Ogden Avenue, Bronx, N.Y., telephone GE 8-1645. Informant

described CHERICO's residence

as a very large house having

approximately six bedrooms.

In addition to the living room

located on the first floor, there was a large den or recreation

room located just off the main living room on the first floor.

He stated that CHERICO resides at this address with his wife

and two young daughters, ages approximately seven and 12.

Informant stated that he did not know the reason

for CAVELLI's visit to New York, but that at approximately

2 p.m. on Sunday, 5/6/62, he was present in CHERICO's home

a number of persons

entered the house.

All of them

were introduced to him.

1

Bureau

(92-2717) (RM);

Boston

(92-272) (RM:):

New York (92-739) (RM)

Philadelphia

192-444

W'BREC- 49

92=2717-552

3o vases

8k105

• MAY 9 1962

EDH: mcc

(6)

X-A.J.

BEAt 100 191D:

LDT

Approved:

c C • Wick

Charg

962

Sent

- M

Per

NW 45737 DooId: 32561700

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PH: 92-444

Informant identified the persons present as DAN CHERICO,

JOE BONAFIA (phonetic), JOHN CAVELLI, PHILIP TESTA,

PAUL

LACONA (phonetic), HENRY NOISE (phonetic), JOE (LNU), and

three other persons whose first or last names he could not

recall.

Informant stated that TESTA was the last person

to arrive and he arrived alone.

Subsequent to his arrival,

all persons present entered the recreation room, with the

exception of the informant, who was not permitted to enter

the room.

The room's sliding doors were closed and a meeting

was held which lasted at least la hours.

Informant did not

know the purpose of the meeting.

Informant described JOE BONAFIA as approximately 5'9",

175 pounds, 30 years of age, curly black hair, pointed nose,

white, male, American, of Italian descent.

CHERICO 1s described as 5'8" to 5'9", 45 years.of

age, 165 pounds, black hair, greying on sides, dark eyes,

speaks as though he is a native of Italy.

LACONA 1s described as 6', 195 pounds, 40 years of

age, black hair, white, male, American, of Italian extraction.

NOISE is described as 220 pounds, 5'7", greying

hair but partially bald, dark horn rimmed

in to de en da ar

glasses, 58 to 59

years of age, white, male, American, Italian extraction.

JOE (INU)) is described as short,

stocky, partially

Date, chain smokes cigars, 50 to 55 years of age, of Italian

Informant

stated that aside from himsell, TESTA,

and CAVELLI, the remaining persons were all from New york.

City; however, PAUL LACONA and HENRY NOISE stated that they

were

from Boston.

NOISE told informant that he and LACONA

are the owners of Gero's Bar and Restaurant, Hanover and

Commercial Streets, located in the north end of Boston.

Informant stated that CAVELLI did not indicate to

him the purpose of. the meeting, but he did tell him, he wished

him to aecompany him some time next week on a trip to New York

City in order to deliver a large

sum of money.

He did not

indicate to whom

the money would be given nor the purpose

of the delivery.

2

NW 45737 DooId:32561700

Page 2

---

## Page 3

PH 920444

EDH: bog

on 5/8/62 numerous photographs were exhibited to

informant

and he identified a photograph of HENRY SELVITELLA,

Boston PD #262 87, date of photograph February 1950, as

the person introduced to him as HENRY NOISE.

The informant stated it is his opinion that the

New York meeting had something to do with BRUNO's Philadel-

phia numbers operation because of the presence of TESTA and

CAVELLI.

He further believes the money, which he will take to

New York City in company with CAVELLI, also must have some

connection with BRUNO!s numbers activities, will be delivered

to CHERICO's residence, 1009 Ogden Avenue,

Bronx, N.Y.

New York is requested to immediately review the

above in effort to identify CHERICO, BONAFIA, and the other

persons possibly at the meeting.

Inasmuch as Philadelphia

indices

are

negative re both CHERICO and BONAFIA, New York

is requested to furnish Philadelphia with their

background

and present New York associates.

New York should also

consider the possibility of utilizing a highly confidential

source in determining CHERICO's activities inasmuch as the

meeting was held in his home. New York immediately furnish

Philadelphia photographs of persons identified so they may

be displayed to informant. Consider furnishing photographs

of known associates of persons identified or individuals

who meet description of persons listed above.

Boston is requested to furnish Philadelphia with

up-to-date information on SELVITELLA and attempt to identify

PAUL LACONA.

Boston is requested to furnish photograph of

PAUL LACONA.

Boston and New York are requested to expedite their.

investigations in order that informant's next trip to New

York can be provided sufficient coverage, considering that

there could possibly be a violation of ITAR Statute, which

could involve ANGELO BRUNO and other prominent racket figures.

-

3

NW 45737 DooId:32561700

Page 3

---

## Page 4

PH 92-444

EDH: 009

Informant is the son of a nationally known.

racket figure who has furnished information considered

reliable to date.

IN VIEW OF SENSITIVITY OF THE ABOVE INFORMATION

AND IN VIEW OF THE DANGER OF COMPROMISING INFORMANT'S LIFE

AND POSITION, THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE HANDLED WITH THE

GREATEST CARE.

BRUNO CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

FROHBOSE

74 45737

DooId: 32561700

Page 4

---

