# docid-32309344

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10298-10131

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 100-342907-5

Released under the John

f. kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased: NH 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ELLIS, H. REX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 04/30/1947

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JBM, BACHELIS, LEONARD HARRIS, BKG, REL, CP, EMP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53074

DocId: 32309344

Page 1

---

## Page 2

7786

14190

LA File 1100-23408

City Septembor 2, 1900,

and who has boon employed by the Columbie Broadcasting

System and the Offico of far Infomation, New York City and Hollywood, Califomia.

Ho roportedly hold a commission in the United States Marine Corps in 1942 and

1943.

He and his wife joined tho Communist Party on January 2l, 1945, and are

nomburs of the Wan Nuys Club, 20th Assembly District. Ho has been an editor of

the Hollywood Indupendent, which is published by the Hollywood Indepondent Citi

zons Comnittee of the urts, Scionces and. Professions

this is supposedly domingt

ed by Communists. He was arrestod on October 10, 1945, by the Burbank Police De-

partmunt in connuction with the motion picture striko in Hollywood,

"NOBLE'S

tito is now Prosident of the. Van Nuys Club of the 20th Congrossional District o

the los Angolos County Communist Party and NOBLE attends all the mectings.:

State 54404 is logistered to JOSEPIt

DELICHIAN, 1160 Heynes, Van Nuys,

California,

Thoro' is no rocordof him in tho los lingelus indices.

Stato 52121 is the Police Dopartments Van Nuys District, Lilo sylvan.

Stato: 53567 is rogisturod to LPH F

SCHLOLING, 5722 lanmouth avenue,

Van Nuys-

In the Los lingolas office indices, SCHLOING was. listed as the

Program Scorutory of the Y.M.Ce. at 634 South Wostorn Avenue, and on October

6, 19li2, hu requested Spucial igent in Charge MOC to speal

On august 15, 1944, ho was at a mecting of the Council for Civic

SCHLOMING, a Ian Cade

at a mooting of this

organization on July 26th.

State 53755 is the r..C. at 145l1 Hanting Van Nuys, Califomia.

Superion 81587 is a non-published humbor belonging to ALBERT

5215 Id Boo Avenuey woodland Hills.

•Thurs are innamerable roturoncos" in the los ingelos office in

dices to Dukkur, but thore is no subject file onihin Ho is doscribod as an

rotor and long line State Issomblynon, tho belongs to mny Communist front

orgonizations, including the Toroign Language Groups.

Ho is considorod a Party.

lino follower but has never ben placed in the Party.

Supprior 816Vi is registorod to i

STERIAN, 20704 Van Oron Strüet,

Conoga Park.

In the case ontitled HERBERT SORRELL, Inturnal Security - Cy

one

ESTERIAN was a dofense attorney for SORRELL when he faced chargos that

by his bed conduct ho had mado himsolf incligiblo for numbership in br rocogni

win 9 91

74 53074

DooId: 32309344

Page 2

---

