# docid-32310849

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) •

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10308-10063

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-754

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, LV

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

"PAGES:

06/11/1962

SUBJECTS :

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 03/03/1998

SGI, ASSOC, REL, VISIT, TELCAL

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

• DocId: 32310849

331

Page 1

---

## Page 2

(Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

1=41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Radió

The

xx Teletype

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr _

Callahan

Conrad

sean

DeLoac

Evans

Malone

Roseff -

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room.

Holmes -

Gandy -

URGENT

6-11-62

12:23 PM JEM

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-20-84

4

TO DIRECTOR AND SAC, CHICAGO

„FROM SAC, LAS VEGAS 111855

SAMUEL: Mo

TANCANA, AKA, AR, 00 CG.

ELV 10 - C ADVISED THAT ON JUNE 9 INSTANT NICHOLAS DANALFO,

HOODLUM CONTACT MAN, DESERT INN HOTEL, LV, MADE RESERVATIONS

FOR FOUR UNDER NAME

: "FLOOD." ON THIS DATE FRANCINE, MARIAN,

AND ROSE D. FLOOD OF 4962 NORTH ADAMS BOULEVARD, CHICAGO,

CHECKED INTO HOTEL. LY 72 - C* ADVISED PHYLLIS

VC GUIRE

ENTERTAINED ABOVÈ INDIVIDUALS AT HER RESIDENCE, LV, AND MADE

ARRANGEMENTS FOR THEM TO SEE SHOWS ABOVE OBSERVED BY AGENT

ON DOTH INSTANT AND ALL ARE WE, ONE ABOUT 50 AND TWO TEENAGERS,

ALL DARK COMPLEXIONED. PHYLLIS CONTACTED SUBJECT AT EU 60381,

CHICAGO, TWICE ON 1OTH INSTANT AND AGAIN AT 4 AM LV TIME

TODAY. ONE TEENAGER REFERRED TO AS "THE ONE CLOSEST TO YOU."

THEY ALSO KNOW KEELEY SMITH, ASSOCIATE OF SUBUECT, SINCE THEY

ATTENDED HER SHOW AND MET HER AFTERWARDS BACKSTAGE. FEMALES

POSSIBLY RELATIVES OF SUBJECT. PHYLLIS AND SUBJECT USED

GUARDED LANGUAGE DURING CONVERSATION BUT ATTEMPTING TO AGREE

ON POSSIBLE MEETING PLACE FOLLOWING LAS VEGAS ENGAGEMENT,

PLANS NOT DEFINITE TO DATE.

ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

RECEIVED: 3:33 PM

HL

23211-

75%

REG 70

11 JUN 12 1962

50JUN1 81962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

DocId: 32310849 Page 2

---

