# docid-32334111

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-480-1901

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: SEE TITLE

FROM:

LO

TO :

TITLE : [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/25/1959

2

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32334111 Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

Released

DATE: 11-14-2017

John

on

Revurds Coltection Act of 1992. (11 USC 2107 Hote).

Helloin'

28560

The Cuban revolutionary organisation.

'Directorio

Revolutionario' (D.R. ) which did so much in 1958 to assist

Fidel CASTRO to get into power, has now been revived.

Mary

of the key figures in the new organisation are members of ühe

ousted Batista regime, now in exile, but the bulk of the supporters

are the same people as those who were supporting Castro last year.

Apparently a large number of Castro's erstwhile supporters have

become disillusioned as a result of Castro's activities since seizing

power so they have re-formed the D.P. and linked up with the Batista

exiles with the object of ousting Castro.

The organisation will use

the same channels to supply the new crop of rebels with arns as were

used to supply the Castro forces in 1958.

Members of the D.R. organisation in Miami are saying that

former overseas Delegate of the pro-Castro rebel

organisstion 'Federacion Essluctiante Universitario', who was operating

in Nassau during the latter part of 1958, has been assassinated by the

people that he helped, to get into power in Cuba.

Two leading members of the new D.R. in Miani are 'General'

KASTOPPER, former Colonel in the Batista army and his brother paste pil:

NASFERRER, ex-senator of the Batista Government.

These two men were

presentat a meeting in the miadle of July 1959 where Rolando enquired

whether. George LONG

was still in the arms business.

that long had supplied a lot of arms

"to the D.R. in 1958.

a telephone. call was made to LONG asking him to let Rolando

know what arns he could obtain and Rolando subsequently stated that

IONG had sent him a list of as available.

At the meeting a coloured Bahamian named BAIN, who Is

connected with a bar and has connections with shipping and politics in

was discussed.

The MASHERRERS expressed doubts as to the

advisability of permitting a coloured man to store-up rifles for them

• in case he double-crossed

Apparently BAIN has been involved

gun-running in the past.

Following arms?

is believed that 'General' HASFERFER has asked for the

506 M. I. Carbines - 300 Garands.

500 M.I. Carbines - 500 Garand M.I. rifles.

10,000 Garand Magazine Clips.

10,000 M. I. Garand Clips.

200 M. 2, Carbines SA & A. - 200,000 Caliber, •30 M. I. Cartridges rifle

200,000 Caliber 30M. I. Cartridges, carbine

BAR, • 200 Magazines B.A.R.

10 Conmand Set,

25 mile range (20 if available)

40 Walkie Talkie Sets (6 mile range)

1,000. Mark 2 hand grenades (fragmentation)

(6) 20 M.M.

anti tank guns - 300 Rounds 20 MoM. MoPo

500 grenade launchers M.I, &. Carbine

Pifle grenades if available: Sterling rifles if trailable.

one of the new D.R's contacte in Had is

belugabin

HI-47751.

le had a meeting vith JOeROLA on 186h July

n Nassau negotiating an ams deal vitti George LONG in the latter part o

May,

The Liari D.I. orgenidation is also in contact wich iraisio

FRANCIS, Passeo 113, Vedado, Havena.

Ques die

3-A6-000

44. 9801-1908

VOLODORE

---

## Page 3

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassifia

ion Records Collection Act of 1992 (11

PET

28561

7.

Another notorious group of law breakers in Miami is

the group led by Capt, Eddie timaY.

They are involved in many

crooke denls connected with shipning and also appear to be

connected with gun running.

This group was involved

suspicious sinking of the yacht 'Amorita' in Nassau several weeks

ago and a Nassau man is now negotiating the purchase of a large

yacht fron the group which was obtained by the group in a very

doubtful manner.

8.

In addition, it is believed that the following two men,

both of them pilots, are involved in tho clandestine delivery of

arms consignments.

They arat,

(=)

(D)

1813 NO. 163 9t. W.I.

Giami Beach:

age about l6, blue eyes, grey hair, height

about 5: 10%

Da canoy of Morida..

Tel. T0.5-6352.

Doseription: agè 35-40, about 5'

9" call.

Blund hair, crew out, right. eai nangled.

July, 1959€

109-480-1901

---

