# docid-32332333

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90101-10074

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4194-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 10/21/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332333

4

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104-01

UNITED STATES G ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/21/63

Walkin: SAC, MIAMI (92-463) (C)

SUBJECT:

JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA, aka

AR

During the course of the investigation of the

dynamiting of the Rose Bay Bridge, north of New Smyrna Beach,

Florida, 9/19/63, JIMMIE WOODARD was interviewed at Knoxville,

Tennessee, as to the source of the 3,150 pounds of dynamite

found at his former residence in South Dade County, Florida.

WOODARD advised that he stored this dynamite for members of

several anti-CASTRO groups in the Miami area.

that JOE MEROLA, whom he described as a "kingpin of underworld

narcotics" and a well known hoodlum in the Miami area, informed

him that this dynamite was obtained legally from the Redstone

Arsenal. He assumed that MEROLA was telling the truthou

the origin of the dynamite and that when the Cubans contacted

him originally through MEROLA during March, 1963, he agseeg to

let them store the dynamite on his farm in south Dage tguntyo

Florida.

WOODARD claims that originally over five tonsof

dynamite were stored on his snall farm. WOODARD stated tha

at one time he took four cases of this

dynamite tombE MAROLA's

place on Broad Key. He stated that he had plannedito dygamite

a lagoon near the key so that MEROLA could land hisseapfene.

WOODARD claims MEROLA has dossiers on Customs and

Bureau Agent personnel as well as local law enforcement

personnel, including photographs,

descriptions and background

information. WOODARD claims that MEROLA states he has many

close friends in high places in the Miami area.

Bureau

Miami (1 - 92-463)

(1- 137-1594)

RMM: jkj

(4)

19-41944

EX. - 112

92 OCT 23 1963

5 8 0CT 281963

68

DocId: 32332333 Page 2

---

