# docid-32290952

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10206-10228

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-599, 598

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/24/1962

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

LST, ASSOC, BUSS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

r.....

v9.1

HW 45966 DocId: 32290952 Page 1

46

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

8/31/62

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

SAC, TAMPA (92-1) (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

Re my airtel, 8/24/62.

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

On 8/29/62, Detectives WILLIAM WARREN aNd ROBERT COOK,

Orlando, Fla. PD, advised their office had covered the Pine Hills

Country Club the

nights of 811 and 18/62.

They advised their

coverage determined that subject did not visit the club on either

evening and there has been no indication of his presence in Orlando,

Florida during recent months.

(It is noted that ROYCE EARL SIMMONS

had previously advised subject was to attend a meeting at the above

location on 8/11/62)•

PCI

Tampa, determined that individual in

contact with

JIMMY LONGO,

Tampa, driving 1956-58 Cadillac, bearing

1962 Florida license 3W-51546.

Above tag determined issued to KENNETH GUTHRIE, 4008 Talia-

ferro, Tampa.

Further investigation, Tampa, determined GUTHRIE employed

by General Telephone Company,

Tampa, and his photograph obtained

to be shown to PCI for positive identification.

Subject's 1959 Chevrolet Impala, 1962 Florida license 3W-

12736, has been observed at subject's Tampa residence since 8/29/62.

Sources and observation of subject's residence failed to indicate

subject presently in Tampa. Subject's wife not observed at resi-

dence.

"a 0o Wick

RES- Z

(3 - Bureau

- Miami

(92-88) (Info)

1 - Tampa

83300

92-228/579

ta treata tasticatical

FX0/mw

(5)

12 SEP 3 1962

5654S5028802

Approved:

Sent

.M

Special Agent in Charge

OTHER 4.

NW 45966 DocId:32290952 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

PCI

Tampa, has advised subject

has not been in

Columbia Restaurant, and subject's close

associate, JIMMY LONGO, has not been in Restaurant since the

afternoon of 8/26/62.

No activity re subject or associates has been ob-

served at St. Petersburg Beach residence.

Detective JACK DE LA LIANA, Intelligence Unit,

Tampa PD, advised his sources report subject continues resi-

dence in Miami.

OTHER 4

N₩ 45966 DocId:32290952 Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date:

8/24/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (92-1 (P)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR, aka.

AR

Remyairtel, 8/17/62.

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

Dallas Office advised that PCI |

related

he and JAMES HENRY DOLAN, late 1960 or early 1961 went to

Miami, Fla. and contacted MILO BELL.

was acquainted with both BELL and TRAFFICANTE and the purpose

of the contact was to see if BELL could use FUQUA and DOLAN in

the "collection business" or as enforcers for TrAFFICANTE.

According to Informant, DOLAN contacted BELL through JOHNNY

WILLIAMS, an Italian from Boston.

PCI related BELL asked DOLAN and _

if they were

interested in an armored car deal as BELL knew another person,

not identified, who had the necessary keys.

TRAFFICANTE

was to get part of the "score" for protection he was

furnishing.

and DOLAN declined as it appeared too risky.

Informant continued that subsequently DOLAN and

FUQUA, acting for BELL AND TRAFFICANTE, knocked off two

bolita men and obtained $7,000 from one of them.

Bureau

2

- Miami

1

--

Tampa

21 FX0: cl

(6)

REC-2k

92-2781-598

12 AUE 27 1952

EX-ING

OTHER 4

Approved:

Sent

Per

"Special Agent in Charge

HW 45966 DocId: 32290952 Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

PCI related he was never in Tampa and alt his

contacts with BELL and TRAFFICANTE were in the Miami area.

Continued observation of subject's residence

and hangouts,

Tampa, during the past week, have determined

subject not located in the Tampa area.

PCI

Jadvised 8/24/62 subject

not at his residence and only cars observed 2505 Bristol

are cars of subject's daughter, SARAH ANN and AUGIE PANIELLO.

LEAD:

OTHER 4

MIAMI DIVISION

• AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will check sources and files

WILLIAMS above.

to identify JOHNNY

+.

2

HW 45966 DocId: 32290952 Page 5

---

