# docid-32273754

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information.

Date:

9/22/201

AGENCY: NARA

RECORD NUMBER: 181-10002-10142

RECORD SERIES: NL ADMINISTRATIVE FILES [ACCESS AND REFERENCE FILES]

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: NARA

FROM: RHOADS, JAMES B.

TO: COOKE, DAVID O.

TITLE:

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54545 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/25/1975

2

CHURCH COMMITTEE ACCESS TO DOD MATERIAL FROM

KENNEDY LIBRARY

DOCUMENT. TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/16/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Copies of enclosures not attached.

v9.1

HH 54545 DocId: 32273754 Page 1

71

---

## Page 2

JUN 2 5 1975

MI. David 0. Cooke

Deputy Aasistant Secretary

of Defense (Adminiatration)

Room 3E822

Departnent of Defense

Washington, D.C. 20301

Dear DoEs

Senator Frank Church, chairman of the Senate Select Comittee to

Study Govaramental Operations with Respect to Intalligence Activi-

ties, has requested the assistance of the National Archivas and

Records Service in obtaining perniasion for members of the Con

mitree staff to exanine material which was classified by your

agency and is now anong the Presidential papers in the John f.

Kennedy Library. A liat of the files to which the Committee

desires access i8 enclosed,

Senator Church has designated the following Connittee staff

to review the Kennedy Library materials, and he has

indicated that each currently holds the security clearances

listed:

Pater Penn, TS/SI/TR/B

Karl R. Inderfurth, IS/SI/K/B

Alan Rombert, IS/SI/K/B

Gragory F. Ireverton, IS/SI/TK/B

It is the policy of the National Archives to roquire authori-

sation frow the agency that classified the information before

accoss to classified naterial among Presidential papers 1€

granted. It to my hope that ao the representative of the

Departnent of Defense on the Interagency Claasification Review

Comatttee you will assiat us in expediting this natter.

I an

sending similar letters to the Department of State, the National

Security Council, and the Central Intelligence Agency.

NH 54545 DocId: 32273754 Page 2

---

## Page 3

2

We would appreciate an early determination by your agency as to

whether to grant access in this instance. In addition, we welcome

your advice on how to handle any Comittee requeats for copies

of documents originated by your agency. The Kennedy Library, I

should add, has secure copying facilities.

Should you require further information, please contact De. Daniel J.

Reed, Assistant Archivist for Presidential Libraries, 963-6363.

I thank you for your assistance in this matter.

Sincerely,

is, Bert

JAMES B. RHOADS

Archivist of the United States

Enclosures

cc: Official file - NL

Reading file - NL

Day file - N

Honorable Frank Church

NL: TPeterson/sb 6/25/75 x23512

= Regul

HHT

54545

DooId: 32273754

Page

---

