# docid-32298277

## Page 1

[Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/19/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10222-10053

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-1905

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, DE

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/18/1967

2

LCN MEMBERS, ASSOC, DETROIT FAMILY, THP, DEPORTED,

COPPOLA, FRANCISCO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32298277

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Release

DATI

Kennedy Assassination Recorus Cort

TO

FROM:

14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES CERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-6054)

SAC

DATE:

4/18/67

SUBJECT:

LA COSA NOSTRA

AR - CONSPIRACY

Re Bureau letter to Detroit, 3/1/67, and

Milwaukee letter to Bureau, dated 3/28/67.

By separate communication the Detroit Office

is forwarding to Milwaukee a list of members and suspect

members of the Detroit family of LCN.

Photographs and

descriptive data concerning these individuals is also

being forwarded.

With reference to information set forth in

referenced Milwaukee letter, Milwaukee is requested to

re-interview MI 623-C-TE and establish as nearly as

possible the exact date of his information concerning

the Detroit family. In this regard, Milwaukee is advised

that one WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO, a brother-in-law

of JOE ZERILLI, boss of the Detroit family, and a member

of the "Commission", is a recognized member of the

Detroit ICN family.

An ICN card containing TOCCO's

photograph and description is on file at the Milwaukee

Office.

5010-108-01

Informant also may have been referring to one

JOE TOCCO, a former top hoodlum in the Detroit area who

was murdered in 1938.

There is no known family relationship

between JOE TOCCO and WILLIAM "BLACK BILL" TOCCO. JOE

TOCCO was reportedly an extremely powerful figure in the

"downriver" gangs which were engaged in bootlegging during

the prohibition era.

Reportedly JOE ZERILLI and his

brothers-in-law "BLACK BILL" TOCCO and PETE CORRADO (deceased)

emerged as leaders of Detroit's ICN after the murder.

Of JOE TOCCO: BE g

- Bureau

IRE 4612-68541905

- Milwaukee. (92-262)

1 - New Orleans f(92-705) (Info)

2 - Detroit

(1 - 92-914)

its

18 APR 20 1967

(1 - 92-1543)

AAC/SIT

KO APR 271964

Buy Ü.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

DocId: 32298277

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released

under the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 10

DATE

111-2017

C.

DE 92-914

FRANK COPPOLA, referred to by the Milwaukee

informant is identical with FRANCISCO COPPOLA, who was

deported from the United States in 1947.

COPPOLA was

born in 1899 at Partinico, Sicily.

He entered the

United States in 1926 and

was deported in 1947.

He returned in 1948 and was again deported in

1949. He was arrested on 8/3/65, at Palermo, Sicily by

Italian Police and was described

as a Mafia leader ir

Italy.

During the time that he resided in the United

States he was known to be a close associate of CARLOS

MARCELLO of New Orleans, Louisiana.

COPPOLA resided in Detroit from about 1931

to 1944.

He is believed to have organized the Lucky

Star Numbers House and became extremely wealthy and

influencial.

He was very close to JOHN PRIZIOLA and

RAFFADLE QUASARANO, aka Jimmy Q.

These latter two individuals are reportedly

members of the Detroit ICN famly who were engaged over

the years in narcotics traffic.

Milwaukee is requested to display photograph

Of "BLACK BILL" TOCCO to MI 628-C-TE in an attempt to

establish whether the informant had reference to this

individual or to JOE TOCCO, described above.

Milwaukee is also requested to furnish any

information the informant may be able to furnish

identifying

• FRANK COPPOLA as an LCN member.

Information developed with segard to tate indiVidual

should be furnished to the New

• Orleans Office as well

as to Detroit.

- 2 -

DocId: 32298277 Page 3

---

