# docid-32307815

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/7/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10293-10173

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-175

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

case#:NW 45792 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/07/1961

2

SGI, ASSOC; VILLA MODERNE RESTAURANT, BUSS,

CRIMINAL ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/28/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45792 DocId: 32307815

Page 1

447

---

## Page 2

11°

12:10

N

**5*

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INLESTIGATON

U.S. DEPARTMENT ONUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APRO

1961

TELETYPE

PM CLM

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Parsons_

Mr.

Mohr_-

Mr.

Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

H URGENT.

4-7-61

8-49

TO DIRECIOR, FBI 192-31711

get

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-349/ 2P

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, AKAO, AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

REC

CHICAGO SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED THAT GIANCANA DEFENITELY

HAS ALLGAUER OSTILLA MODERNE, RESTAURANT QUOTE BY THE NECK END QUOTE,

I AND STATED THAT HIS SOURCE OF INFORMATIÓN RE GIANCANAYS INTEREST IN

AVILLA MODERNE ENTERPRISES IS LESTERY RUSE.

Ille

*OVERHEARD KRUSE AND OTHERS

DISCUSSING VILLA MODERNE, CG SIX FOUR FIVE SEVEN DASH C ADMITTED

THAT IT WAS POSSIBLE GIANCANA CONSIDERED HER AS HIS QUOTE GIRL END QUOTE

IN THAT SHE WAS SEVERELY

ADMONISHED BY GIANCANA ON NUMEROUS

OCCASIONS FOR CONTACTING

ANGELO PASEL. CITED AN EXAMPLE WHEREBY SHE

ATTEMPTED TO CALL IN A BET AT HORSEBOOK WHERE FASEL WAS EMPLOYED,

• UNABLE TO REACH FASEL, ADVISED PERSON ON PHONE OF HER IDENTITY.

GIANCANA CONTACTED HER ONE HOUR LATER, ADVISED HER THAT HE HAD BEEN

TOLD OF HER CALL, HAD FASEL FIRED IMMEDIATELY FROM BOOK, AND GAVE

INSTRUCTIONS THAT FASEL WAS NOT TO BE ALLOWED ADMITTANCE INTO ANY

OF THE CICERO HORSEBOOKS• GIANCANA THEN TOLD INFORMANT THAT IF FASEL

WASN/T CAREFUL, HE WOULD HAVE BOTH HIS LEGS BROKEN•

12-3171--

INFORMANE

WAS QUERIED RE HER KNOWLEDGE OF RISER FOREST BANK ROBBERY, STATED

SHE WAS NOT AWARE OF IT, DENIED THAT FASEL COULD HAVE ANY PART OF IT.

END PAGE ONE

ALL INFORMATION CONTANE

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED Y

A3 APR 13 1961

DATE 6: 1 - 64 BYSSeSO

57 APR 1 8 1961

HH 45792 DooId:32307815 Page 2

---

## Page 3

til tie

PAGE TWO

SANDY SMITH PAREN PROTECT IDENTITY END PAREN, CHICAGO TRIBUNE REPORTER,

ADVISED THAT GIANCAVA MUSCLED HIS WAY INTO SANELINE OPERATION ATLACON.

WHEEL, NORWOOD PARK, AND AS A RESULT, D/AMICO, WHO OPERATED

INDEPENDENTLY FOR TWENTY

YEARS, HAS BEEN RELAGATED TO STATUS OF

EMPLOYEE. GIANCANA OWNS PROPERTY WHICH FORMERLY HOUSED WAGON WHEEL,

NOW CONTAINS NIGHT CLUB CALLED MIST. SEE DAILY SUMMARY OF APRIL

SIX LAST RE MIST CLUB •

INCOME TAX RETURN FOR

REFLECTS

JER Law 11(a)

WAGON WHEEL HORSEBOOK GENERALLY REGARDED AS ONE OF PERMANENT

HORSE PARLORS OF NORIHWEST SIDE, CHICAGO• ATTEMPTS MADE THIS DATE

TO CONTACT OTHER PERSONS MENTIONED IN ILLINOIS STATE LIQUOR CONTROL

RECORDS AS STOCKHOLDERS IN MIST CLUB, WITH NEGATIVE RESULTS. AGENTS

TOLD WHEREABOUTS THESE PERSONS UNKNOWN AT PRESENT. INVESTIGATION

CONTINUING. ARMED AND DANGEROUS. Y

END AND ACK PLS.

P 9-56 PM OK FBI WA JS

HOLDING

IRs

.. FAC

8:.

• 11

92-3178-175

NH 45792 DocId: 32307815 Page 3

---

