# docid-32348161

## Page 1

Date: 12/16/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD

NUMBER

: 104-10068-10003

RECORD\ SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM

ANDERSON, CLARK, LEGAL ATTACHE.

TO SCOTT,

WINSTON,

TITLE

: MEMO: OSCAR RODRIGUEZ MOLINA:

DATE

09/28/1964

PAGES

5

SUBJECTS

RODRIGUEZ MOLIN

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/04/93

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

RELEASED

FROM 104-10086-10138, A DUP OF THIS DOCUMENT

BY ARRB IN 3/98.

[R] - ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10068-10003

w 50529

DocId: 32348161 Page

---

## Page 2

Date

TO

From

Subject:

SEP 28 iN..

Ni. Winston N. Scott

* Clark di

Anderson

Attache

OSCAR RODRIGUEZ MOLINA

iste

• R3

FH0: 1153

"i your

na: des

dietriontod

te anthorisedder.

above, which may be

Enclosed are memoranda dated and captioned as

01 interest to you.

Enclosures

(2)

513 (Bre)

-Goup 1

E:cluded from Automatic

Deutraling and Declassification

0000602

2.169

HH 50529

DocId:32348161

Page '2

---

## Page 3

DUNSIDE TAL

SEP 28. 1964

OSCI: RODEIGUEL MOLINA

I-], oa deptenses a, 1064, furniches the lollowing

infornation whic: mo octained iron

the tiles of the Hezicza

Departuent of Immigiction in Merico. Clüy:

OSCLE CODRIGUE, MOLII appesrad at the Inmigration

station in the Internicional firport at Merida,

lucatan,

Mexico,

on hugust, 1591, stating that he was

citizen

who desi.cd

to raturn to Cusa.. RODRIGUEL 52I0

Javana, Ci., lão 31 yeais o1a,

that de nas bora in jeruco, his permanent residence at

married, an empioyes,

Calla Gleano 31:, Insan, Cuss.

RODRiGin state: that he entared venico as the

International Ai.p0st

in Mexico City on January Z1,

1991,

and vas granted politicit asylum.

RODRIGUsu presented a certizicate of Cuban

nationality 15steu by tha Crson Consulate in Maxico Ciss

and a1so exhibited a sinilar certificate.

for hio minor soi.

RODRIGT stutsE that the reasons for nhich ne

had requestad policica, cylum in Maxico no longer were in

errect and he desirad to zencunce his status oi political

asylum in Mexico.

-a Stated thai ha manted to ceturn to

Cuoa with his 1S-montn-old son, osChl DilIUe ROdRIGUr.

COUFIDEUEILI

Group I

reluded from

automatic

Dorading ad Declassification

PAGE

COPY NO.

of

HH 50529

DocId:32348161 Page 3

---

## Page 4

COIFIDIITILI

GinChes, No bad cabe236 Lexica on Juse 23,

1930,

by ho nother, iril? suicas doliodriGues,

acconpinias

nho 1o & Merican

Catiüen.

Mexica: Inmágation Deperiment File ilo. 4/361.7

1531/3146 2і0010333

trat

iniGUrd firot entares lexico is

a portical grilo on julg 1,

araiying

Lion Cuos.

departad lenico, en souss Cuba, on January i, 10le.

RODRIGUi sidoi de nas born in Jazuco, Savana,

Cuba, oa December 10, 19.0.

in Mexico,

bui rather narricú der in Guandbacoa, Havzna, Cuba, on

August I, 1059.

Ances the iC-entry of RODRiGuei into Mezico in

January,

1061, he statad that be ves a Sargeant in tise Cuben

Polico intit April m, 1089,

at thich time he

resigaed

recauce he cis nos upprove of the operations o2

the police.

De ciaimes that he cien ostainad enplogment io

Chief of the Mais, Pips Teni Deperiment of the LIbee»

A veduct In Havana, Cui, there be ramained untiz gapterber 1,

1000

ao camo to Merico as a courist it arour thia time,

returning to Baran-, Cui,

trom Mexico, os Morense: 13, 1080.

lo & robult of this trip,

the Cuban intellazence organization,

refered to as the fu, allegedly percecuted him antil

was obliged to ra-uast

political acylum in tho Nerican

Imbassy in Savana, Cuic.

Ba rio auchorical to remain in Merico ao a political

arile on February al, iocl, zuen he nao Fivez permission to

accept emplogment

a curesnas, since ha is narried to a

Mezicun Citizen by Sch.

On June us, 1031, VIS. FODRIGUIZ ached for authority

to accompany des soi,

OSC., Of Cubaz nationalit], to the

HH: 50529

DocId: 32310161 Paqe 4

PAGE

46

of

CORY NO.

16859

---

## Page 5

CONFIDENCILL

stating that her husband was located

in that city.

RODRIGUE" had loit Mexico to enter the United States.)

As mentiones above, RodRiGued appeared at the

Immigration Oilice in meriaa, lucaran, mexico.

on lugust 2;

and departed Merida, en route Ravana, Cuba, on lugust

10, 1061, accompanied by his son, OSChi.

1962, requested

authority from the Merican Depazinent of

IS. RODRIGUE, On Septenter ' migration 205

ner husband io entei liarico as an immigrant.

MrS. RODRIGUEZ

stated that les. LiRICh MOiTERO DE SANCER, owner of the

Nueva nola Pharmicy in Mezico City, had offered him

employment at a salary: of 300 pesos (512 U.S.) noninly.

Rodrigus. did not accept this employment th

Versalles Phärnacy,

PoDulEd enployment in tbat pharmacy at a salary of 1,000

pesos ($00 U.s.) moathly.

RODRI CUrL requested authority to enter Mexico,

and authority vas granted by Order Mo. 21060 dated April 21,

1254. He vas zinitied as an imnigrant for a period of one

year,

since his wife is a lexican citizen by birth. "Re was

aumitted with permission to accept employment at the

Versalles Pharmacy:

RODRIGUe entered Mexico at International Airport,

bearing Cuoan Passport

1963.

Le 2150 caxiied Mexican

Immigcation Document. Fllu io. 7034.

RODRIGUEZ stated that his residence in lavanu,

Cuba, is lociad at Calle E, between Third Avenue and Final

Naranjo, Guanabacon, Lavana, Cuba.

in Mexico City

- 3=

CONTIDINFIAI

PACE

10027

42

"ot.

17W- 50529

DocId:32348161 Page 5-

---

## Page 6

SEP 28 1954

COC/3 RODRIGUEL MOLINA

Roteranca is made to the memorandum dated and

captioned au above.

Source I-l, reierred to in revorenced nemorasdu,

has furnished talitie infornation la the pact.

4/5

50529 DocId: 32348161 Page 6

---

