# docid-32989496

## Page 1

File #:

62-AL-2457

Serial Scope:

6, 1,8.12,14, 16 thr 20

i

DO NOT

DOSTROY

---

## Page 2

FD-350 (Rev, 7-16-63)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

Story links

King plot,

local motel

A hideaway motel in Apalachin reportedly was

the scene of a 1968 meeting where FBI and CIA

agents offered former gangland kingpin Carlo

Gambino $1 million to kill Martin Luther King

Jr., Scripps-Howard Newspapers said yesterday.

The allegation was made by an inmate at the

Ohio Penitentiary Reception and Treatment Cen-

ter in Columbus. Gambino reportedly rejected

the offer.

The report said the inmate, Myron Billet, set

up a secret meeting in January 1968, at a motel in

Apalachin between the FBI and CIA agents and

Gambino, who has since died.

The name and location of the motel could not

be determined last night and it was not known if

the motel is still in business.

Apalachin was the scene of a 1957 state police

raid of a convention by organized crime bosses,

hosted by the late Joseph Barbara Sr.

Scripps-Howard Newspapers, in a copyrighted

story by William Pillar, said Billett, 52, alias

Paul Buccilli, will be questioned by Ed Evans,

chief investigator for the House Select Commit-

tee on Assassinations in Washington.

Gambino rejected the offer and later passed

the word that no gangland family would accept

the offer to kill King, Billett said.

Rép. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, chairman of the

assassinations committee, said he ordered Evans

to investigate the allegations after Scripps-

Howard asked Stokes if a letter sent by Billett to

House Speaker Thomas O'Neill had been turned

over to the committee.

O'Neill's office told the newspapers that the

letter had not been located.

'We will be in touch with Billett to check out

his story." Evans said.

indicate page, name ‹

ewspaper, city and state

THE SUN-BULLETIN

BINGHAMTON, NY

PAGE 1

-

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

APRIL 13,1977

'des

Character:

Classification:

Submitting Office:

ALBANY

7 Being Investigated

62-2457-6

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

APR 141917

FBI - ALBANY

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FD-350 (Rev. 11-11-75)

(Mount Clipping in Space Below)

• April 14, 1977

SUN-BULLETIN, Binghamton, N.Y. S

Apalachin talks of motels

By DAVID POPPICK

* APALACHIN - Some residents and motel

managers in Apalachin were puzzled yesterday

by reports that a motel in the hamlet may have

been the site of a meeting where CIA and FBI

agents offered a former gangland chief $1 million

to kill Martin Luther King Jr.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations

in Washington yesterday said it will question an

inmate at an Ohio penitentiary who claims he set

up the secret meeting with Carlo Gambino in

1968. The motel was not identified.

Some residents and motel managers of this

Tioga County community expressed mixed feel-

ings about their town hitting the limelight as a

gangland gathering place. None of those who

were interviewed could say where the meeting

may have been held.

"It just looks bad for the town. But some

people say it is unlikely that the Mafia would

have returned to the scene of the crime after

an" said one resident.

"Sure it could have happened. A lot of weirc

people and things happened here when we were

open. But if they came, I would think they'd have

been quiet and inconspicuous about it. I can't

remember anything about it," said one motel

manager, Donna Tryon.

Tryon helped her father Stanley Payne manage

an 1l-cabin motel between West Main Street and

Route 434 until it was closed in 1969.

Albert Vizak, manager of the Real Motel on the

border of Tioga and Broome counties, said he

doubted that his motel was used for the meeting.

Ray Sawyer, who managed anotner flutes us

Route 434, said his cabins were closed during the

winter and could not have been used.

There are two other motels in the Apalachir

area: the Apalachin Tavern, which has motel

rooms, and the Bennett Motel, on the border, of

Broome and Tioga counties.

ndicate page, name o

ewspaper, city and state

SUN-BULLETIN

BINGHAMTON, NY

PAGE 5

Date:

Edition:

Author:

Editor:

Title:

APRIL 14, 197

Character:

or

Classification:

Submitting Office:

ALBANY

Being investigated

224579

SEARCHED

, INDEYED

SERIALIZED A FILED LAT

APR 151977

FBI - ALBANY

py

NH 54957

DocId: 32989496

Page 3

---

## Page 4

or crisis

HQ0053 3192945

RR AL JK ME NO NY PD

DE HQ

R 151957Z NOV 77

FM DIRECTOR

TO ALBANY (ROUTINE)

JACKSONVILLE (ROUTINE)

MEMPHIS (ROUTINE)

NEW ORLEANS (ROUTINE)

NEW YORK (ROUTINE)

PORTLAND (ROUTINE)

BT

CLEAR

HOUSE SELECI COMMIITEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

IN CONNECTION WITH INVESTIGATION BY THE HSCA INTO THE

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JROS THE STAFF MEMBERS OF

THE HSCA HAVE REQUESTED TO INTERVIEW THE FOLLOWING AGENIS:

SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH - PORTLAND DIVISION

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI - NEW ORLEANS DIVISION

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS - NEW YORK DIVISION

SA RENE DUMAINE (FORMER) - ALBANY

costel ill

Domain

SA Conlon

270

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496

Page 4

62-2457

L PILED DU

NOW 1 5 1977

---

## Page 5

PAGE IWO

CLEAR

SA RAMON W. STRATION - PORTLAND DIVISION

SA ROBERI C. HAINES - JACKSONVILLE DIVISION

SA JOE C. HESTER (FORMER) - MEMPHIS DIVISION

AGENT COLARELLI IS SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON MONDAY,

NOVEMBER 14, 1977. AGENTS COLLINS AND HAINES ARE SCHEDULED

FOR INTERVIEW ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1977. AGENIS KUSCH

AND STRAITON ARE SCHEDULED FOR INTERVIEW ON THURSDAY,

NOVEMBER 17, 1977.

ALBANY CONTACI FORMER SA DUMAINE, 1 NORTH CENTER LANE,

BALLSION, NEW YORK, AND DETERMINE EARLIEST POSSIBLE DATE HE

MAY BE INTERVIEWED BY THE COMMITTEE. MEMPHIS OFFICE CONTACI

FORMER SA HESTER, 97 EAST LAFAYETTE CIRCLE, MEMPHIS,

TENNESSEE, AND DETERMINE EARLIEST POSSIBLE DATE FOR HIS

INTERVIEW ALBANY AND MEMPHIS SUTEL RESULTS OF CONTACT WITH

DUMA INE AND HESTER.

ALL OF THE ABOVE NAMED AGENTS HAVE BEEN RELEASED FROM

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT AND ARE AUTHORIZED TO PARTICIPATE IN

ASCA INTERVIEW. AGENTS SHOULD REPORT TO FBIHO ON THE DAY

PRIOR IO SCHEDULED INTERVIEW REPORI TO ROOM 3659 OR 8988

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496 Page 5

---

## Page 6

PAGE THREE

CLEAR

FOR INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING THE INTERVIEW. SA DANNY O.

COULSON OF THE LEGAL COUNSEL DIVISION WILL MAKE ARRANGEMENIS •

FOR STAFF INTERVIEWS.

BT

NW 54957

DocId: 32989496

Page 6

---

## Page 7

VZ CZ CHQ0 285

RR AL AT BA BH BS BU CE CG CI GV DN DE HO. IP JN JK KC LA

ME MM MI MP MO NK NH NO NY OM PH PX PE PD RH SC SL SD SF SE SI

TP WF

DE HQ B085 1570055

ZNY EEEEE

R 052105Z JUN 78

FM DIRECIOR FBI (62 117290)

IO FBI ALBANY

FBI ATLANTA

FBI BALTIMORE

FBI BIRMINGHAM

FBI BOSTON

FBI BUFFALO

FBI CHARLOTTE

FBI CHICAGO

FBI CINCINNATI

FBI CLEVELAND

FBI DENVER

FBI DETROIT

FBI HOUSTON

62-245712

FARCHED W

SERIALIZE FILED /

ij65 1978

FBI INDIANAPOL IS

FBI JACKSON

• FBI JACKSONVILLE

Re Ort

R70

NW 54957 DooTd: 32989496

Page 7

---

## Page 8

PAGE TWO DE HQ

FBI KANSAS CITY

FBI LOS ANGELES

FBI MEMPHIS

FBI MIAMI

FBI MILWAUKEE

FBI MINNEAPOLIS

FBI MOBILE

FBI NEWARK

FBI NEW HAVEN

FBI NEW ORLEANS

FBI NEW YORK

FBI OMAHA

FBI PHILADELPHIA

FBI PHOENIX

FBI PITTSBURGH

FBI PORTLAND

FBI RICHMOND

FBI SACRAMENTO

FBI SAN DIEGO

•FBI SAN FRANCISCO

0085 UNCLAS E F T 0

NW 54957 DocId: 32969496 Page 8

---

## Page 9

PAGE THREE DE HQ

DD85 UNCLAS

EFT 0

FBI SEATTLE

FBI SPRING FIELD

FBI ST. LOUIS

FBI. TAMPA

FBI WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE

BT

UNCLAS EFT O

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

BUDED JUNE

,12, 1978.

157-231

• RE: BULET TO ALBANY, ET AL, 'AUGUST 25, 1967, CAPTIONED

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK NATIONALIST-HATE GROUPS,

INTERNAL SECURITY" AND "BUAIRTEL TO ALBANY, ET AL, MARCH 4,

1968, CAPTIONED "COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM, BLACK NATION-

ALIST-HATE GROUPS, RACIAL INTELLIGENCE"

THE HSCA WHICH IS INVESTIGATING THE ASSASSINATION OF

JOHN F. KENNEDY AND MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., NOTING THAT:

REFERENCED COMMUNICATIONS ASKED RECIPIENT OFFICES TO MAKE

PERIODIC REPORIS IO THE BUREAU, HAS REQUESTED THAI RECIPIENT

FIELD OFFICE FILES BE SEARCHED AND ALL REPORTS, LETTER HEAD

MEMORANDA, AIRTELS, LETTERS AND TELETYPES CONCERNING

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496 Page 9

---

## Page 10

PAGE FOUR DE HQ D085 UNCLAS E FI O

DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., OR THE SOUTHERN CHRISIAN

LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE (SCLC) SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO REFERENCED

COMMUNICATIONS UP TO AND INCLUDING DECEMBER 31, 1968, BE

PREPARED FOR DELIVERY..

THE HSCA REQUESTED THAT OUR RESPONSE IN THIS MATTER BE

GIVEN TOP PRIORTY OVER ALL OTHER ASPECTS OF KING INVESTIGATION.

FBI HEADQUARTERS (FBIHQ) FILES HAVE BEEN PARTIALLY

PROCESSED IN RESPONSE TO A SIMILAR REQUESI; BUI IO INSURE

COMPLETE NESS AND THOROUGHNESS, EACH RECIPIENT OFFICE FURNISH

FBIHQ TWO XEROX COPIES OF ANY COMMUNICATION MEETING ABOVE

CRITERIA. COPY SHOULD REACH FBIHQ BY JUNE 12, 1978.

ALL COPIES SHOULD BE CLEARLY LEGIBLE AND SHOULD BE SENT

REGISTERED MAIL, MAILED TO THE ATTENTION, OF THE CONGRESSIONAL

INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGEMENT DIVISION, ANY QUESTIONS CAN

BE RESOLVED BY CONTACTING SUPERVISOR RICHARD C. BUSCHING,

EXTENTION, 3685.

RECIPIENT OFFICES HAVING NO COMMUNICATION MEETING CRITERIA

ARE IO SO NOTIFY FBIHQ.

BT

0D.85

NW 54957 DooId: 32989496 Page 10

---

## Page 11

AIRTEL

TO:

6/8/78

(Attn:

FROM:

SAC, Albany (62-2457) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON

ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

BUDED: 612/78

ReButel to Albany dated 6/5/78.

In response to the request of captioned communication,

search of the Albany Office files disclosed no reports,

letterhead memoranda, airtels, letters or teletypes concerning

DI. MARTIN LUTHER KING,

or the Southern Christian

Leadership Conference (sCLo) up to and including December 31,

dated March

BLACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUPS, RACIAL, INTELLIGENCE."

2- Bureau

- Albany

JJF :pac

(4)

Ao

Tattilage

sevals

62-2457-14

SEARCHES

SERIALIZED

INBEXED.

FiLES

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496 Page 11

---

## Page 12

VZCZCHQ0110

PP AL KC SL SE

DE HQ D11D 2962308

ZNY EEEEE

P 2321337 OCT 78

FM DIRECTOR FBI (62-117290)

TO FBI ALBANY PRIORITY

FBI KANSAS CITY PRIORITY

FBI SEATTLE PRIORITY

FBI ST. LOUIS PRIORITY

BI

UNCLASS F

Mander george

HOUSE

, SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Ben in mond sou-

BUREAU DEADLINE OCTOBER 31, 1978

88-4373.

FOR INFORMATION OF RECEIVING

OFFICES, GEORGE BEN

till

EDMONDSON ALSO KNOWN AS ALEX BORMANN, WHITE MALE, BORN

destroves

AUGUST 3, 1937, WAS OPERATED AS AN INFORMANI FOR THE KANSAS CITY

DIVISION DURING 1958-1959 AND WAS REOPENED FOR A BRIEF PERIOD IN

1968, (BUREAU FILE 137-7738). EDMONDSON WAS ALSO A BUREAU TOP-

TEN-FUGITIVE FROM JUNE 20, 1966, TO JUNE 28, 1967, WHEN HE WAS

APPREHENDED IN QUEBEC CANADA (RETURNED TO UNITED STATES THROUGH

ALBANY DIVISION) • WHILE IN PRISON AT THE MISSOURI STATE

miche-

indices s

ser

R70

62-0437-16

OCT 2510-31

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496

Page 12

MapleN me

---

## Page 13

PAGE TWO DE HQ 0110 UNCLAS E F TO

PENITENTIARY, HE FURNISHED INFORMATION REGARDING VARIOUS MEANS

THAT ONE COULD UTILIZE IN GAINING ENTRY INTO CANADA, PROCURING

PASSPORTS, AND METHODS OF GOING BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN THE

UNITED STATES AND CANADA WHEN IN A FUGITIVE STATUS.

IN CONNECTION WITH ITS INVESTIGATION INTO THE ASSASSINATION

OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., THE HSCA HAS BEEN INTERESTED IN THE

ACTIVITIES OF EDMONDSON, WHO WAS A FELLOW INMATE OF JAMES EARL

RAY PRIOR TO RAY'S ESCAPE, IN 196% THE HSCA RECENTLY LOCATED

AND INTERVIEWED EDMONDSON AT ROUTE 2, WALLA WALLA, WASHINGTON.

EDMONDSON FURNISHED THE COMMITTEE A SIGNED WAIVER AUTHORIZING

HSCA ACCESS TO ALL MATERIAL UNDER CONTROL OF THE FBI CONCERNING

HIM, INCLUDING INFORMANT OR CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE FILES.

CURRENTLY, BUREAU POLICY INVOLVING A SIGNED HSCA WAIVER OF

THIS TYPE IS TO OBTAIN OUR OWN WAIVER IN ORDER TO PROTECT

AGAINST CIVIL SUITS. SEATTLE SHOULD PROMPTLY INTERVIEW

EDMONDSON (NOW USING THE NAME ALEX BORMANN), INFORM HIM OF

RECEIPT OF THE HSCA WAIVER AND OBTAIN ANOTHER SIGNED WAIVER.

THIS WAIVER SHOULD BE WORDED IO AUTHORIZE THE FBI TO RELEASE, ALL

INFORMATION IN ITS POSSESSION CONCERNING HIM INCLUDING THOSE

RECORDS PERTAINING TO HIS CONFIDENTIAL RELATIONSHIP. THIS

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496 Page 13

---

## Page 14

PAGE THREE DE HQ @IIE UNCLAS E F I O

WAIVER SHOULD ALSO STATE THAT EDMONDSON UNDERSTANDS THESE FILES

WILL DISCLOSE TO THE HSCA ANY CONFIDENTIAL RELATIONSHIP HE MAY

HAVE HAD WITH THE FBI. SEATTLE SUBMIT TELETYPE REGARDING

RESULTS OF CONTACT WITH EDMONDSON AND FORWARD WAIVER, IF

OBTAINED, TO FBI HEADQUARTERS (FBIHQ) BY COVER AIRTEL.

ALL RECIPIENTS CONDUCI FILE REVIEW FOR ALL RETRIEVABLE

INFORMATION CONCERNING EDMONDSON FOR THE PERIOD JANUARY 1,

1957, TO PRESENT. FURNISH FBIHQ ONE LEGIBLE COPY OF EACH FILE

AND SERIAL RETRIEVED. FORWARD MATERIAL BY COVER AIRTEL TO

FBIHQ, ATTENTION: CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRY UNIT, RECORDS MANAGE-

MENT DIVISION. IF YOUR REVIEW DETERMINES FILES CONCERNING

EDMONDSON HAVE BEEN DESTROYED, FURNISH THE DATE AND BASIS OF

DESTRUCTION. IN VIEW OF HSCA PUBLIC HEARINGS WHICH ARE

SCHEDULED FOR EARLY NOVEMBER, 1978, THIS MATERIAL SHOULD REACH

FBIHQ BY OCTOBER 31, 1978.

0110

NNNN

NW 54957

DogId: 32989496 Page 14

ThR

Thin

---

## Page 15

dices Search Ste

Rev. 3-23-7

Date

TO: CHIEF CLERK

Subject

Social Security Account #

Aliases

Address

Birth Date

Birthplace

Race

Sex

•Male

Female

Exact Spelling

_Main Criminal Case Files Only

Restrict to Locality of

All References

_Criminal References Only

Main Subversive Case Files Only

Main Subversive (If no Main, list all Subversive References)

Subversive References Only

_Main Criminal (If no Main, list all Criminal Referencés)

File & Serial Number

Remarks

File & Serial Number

Remarks

Alexander George Ben Edmondson (Card Made Slue).

88-4373 -

Destroyed 2177 - Met criteria for file destruction

program.

George Ben Edmondson

62-2457

Alex Bormann-Negative

Requested by

squad

Searched by

BB

Consolidated by

-

10/25/78

(date)

(date)

Reviewed by

(date)

File Review Symbols

Identical

-Not identical

Not identifiable

U = Unavallable reference

NW 54957 Docid: 32989496 Page 15

Extension

62-245717

SEARCHED

IN"EXED

SMATO A TO EA

00T,

FBI - ALCANY

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 16

FD-36 (Rev. 3-24-77)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

• Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

• TOP SECRET

• SECRET

[ CONFIDENTIAL

DEFTO

• CLEAR

Date

0001

170s

10/25/78

EM ALBANY (62-2457) (RUC)

IO DIRECTOR (ROUTINE) / 714

BT

UNCLAS E F TO

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

RE BUREAU TELETYPE DATED OCTOBER 23, 1978.

REVIEW OF ALBANY INDICES DISCLOSES THAT ALBANY FILE

(88-4373) PERTAINING TO GEORGE BEN EDMONDSON WAS DESTROYED

FEBRUARY, 1977. THIS FILE WAS DESTROYED PURSUANT TO THE

FILE DESTRUCTION PROGRAM PERMITTING DESTRUCTION OF NON-

ORIGIN CRIMINAL FILES.

Q-ALBANY

RFO/mma

(1)

risen

RUC

(5)

62-2457-18

SEARCHED,

Approved:

R/ 270•

NW 54957 DocId:32989496 Page 16

Transmitted Sel

Obove

(Number)

ANsS

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 17

0-9 (Rev. 7-27-76)

TRANSMIT VIA:

PRECEDENCE:

CLASSIFICATION:

AIRTEL

DATE:

1/2/79

TO:

From:

SAC, Albany

Whe

Director, FBI C

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Reurcal to FBIHQ 12/14/78.

Enclosed is one copy each of pages 269 and 270 requested

oy ASAC, Albany consisting of comments made on 11/17/78 bj

Chairman Stokes of captioned Committee concerning testimony o

SA Rose given on that date.

This

line

for

EFT MARGIN.)

Enclosures (2)

(Do not type BEYOND THIS

GIN.)

(Do not type below this line.)

dead

NW 54957 DocId: 32989496

Page 17

62-2457-19

SEARCHED.

SERIALIZED SETTER OF

JAN 5 1979

REAC

Rase If

FBI/DOJ

---

## Page 18

ATRIEL

1/2/79

To:

SAC, Albany

From: Director, FBI

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

Reurcal to FBIHQ 12-14-78.

Enclosed is one copy each of pages 269 and 270 requested

oy ASAC, Albany consisting of comments made on 11-17-78 by

Chairman Stokes of captioned Committee concerning testimony of

SA Rose given on that date.

Enclosures (2)

62-2457-19

SEARCHED

JAN 5 1979

NS 54957

Doold: 32989496

Page

18

---

## Page 19

KAME:

HAA321000

PAGE

269

4929

as the leader of the civil rights movement.

4930

The Chairman. And what was there, given the kind of tone

49311

that was set from the top by Mr. Hooves, the realization

493%

that he wanted DI. King destroyed, and with that notion

4933!

being prevalent throughout the entire bureau, and trickling

4934

all the way down to men like Rose who came in this afternoon

4935

and admitted under oath that he was

racially prejudiced,

4936 with the knowledge existing throughout the entire bureau

4937

that Hoover wanted him destroyed, what would stop

some

agent

4938

from feeling that he could with impunity kill Di. King?

49391

Mr. Brennan. I think that is an extreme supposition.

I

4940/

think that the people in the FBI, at least on the basis of

4941:

my personal experience over the years that I worked in the

4942

FBI for more than 26 years, were men of great dedication and

4943

integrity, and I would say that that would be a dar-out

4944

extreme case.

4945

Now I am not saying that we never had any bad apples 'in

4946

the FBI, and that sonebody would not consider doing a bad

4947

NW 54957

thing, but I would be shocked and amazed if any individual

DocId: 32989496 Page 19

---

## Page 20

NAME:

HAA321000

PAGE

270

49481

in the FBI ever did consider

such a step.

4949

The Chairman. Were you shocked and amazed that it was

4950

testified to here that when MI. Rose heard

DI. King had been

4951

killed he expressed joy, and used the term

''They got the

4952

SOB''?

Did that shock and amaze you?

• 4953

MI. BIennan. That shocked me, yes.

I don't see how any

• 4954

man, particularly the men of

the caliber, of the type that

4955

we try to get into the fBI, would be joyful over that type

4956

of assassination.

4957

The Chairman.

Regrettably, Mr. Rose is still

with

i the

4958

FBI.

4959

MI. Brennan.

well, sir, that is not of my doing.

.4960

The Chairman.

I do not fault you for that. I fault the

4968

system for keeping him.

496₴

The gentleman from the District of Columbia,. Mi. Fauntzoy,

4963

MI. Fauntroy.

MI. Chairman, I have no questions. I

4964

exhausted.

• 4965

The Chairman.

The gentleman from Ohio, Mi. Devine.

4966

Mr. Devine.

Thank you, Mi. Chairman.

NW 54952

Docid: 32989496 Page 20

---

## Page 21

AIRTEL

1-12-79

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Attention: DANNY O. COULSON, Unit Chief,

Legal Section, Koom 3658,

JEH Building)

62-2+57

FROM:

SUBJECT:

SAG, ALBANY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Re Bureau airtel of 1-2-79.

inclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a letter

directed to LOUIS SIORES, Chairman of captioned Connittee, which

clarifies certain statements he made concerning the testimony

Of SA JAMES J. ROSE before that Committee on November 18, 1978.

It is herein requested that a copy of the letter be forwarded to

SA ROSE'S personnel

file at FBIHQ.

- Bureau (Enc.) (RM)

Albany

JJE: Aml

(4)

62-2457.20

SEARONED.

SERALIZED

INDEXED

FilED

_MH 54957 DocId: 32989496 Page 21

---

