# docid-32297929

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10220-10205

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 2-897-131X1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

PTACEK, BERNARR M.

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/04/1948

6

EB, ASSOC, BUSS, PLANES, CONSPR, BOMB, CARACAS,

VENEZUELAN

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/07/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS

Released under the John

. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note) .

Cased:MM 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

v9.1

HT 54463

19

DocId: 32297929

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 52-3337

On January 30th Mr. JOE FLICK was interviewed at the Flick

Corp., 1837 West Gage, Los Angeles, at which time he advised that he had

never heard of MASON or any of the names mentioned in connection with this

case.

He stated that he had no idea how his name could possibly have

been used by MASON inasmuch as he had never heard of him. He advised that

a friend of his by the name of WILLIAM CARTER, 520 South Mariposa, had

been in the business of selling War Surplus Airplanes and might possibly

have

information which would aid in this case.

Mr. WILLIAN CARTER was interviewed at length by the writer and

had no information which would aid in this case.

Mr. FLICK also advised that one PATRICK F. BRANDENBURG, 5066

Tilford, Los Angeles, had formerly known Mr. EDWARD BROWDER who was

mentioned in connection with this case.

PATRICK F. BRANDENBURG waS

interviewed on February 2, 1948 and

claimed no knowledge of value in this case.

On January 30, 1948 Mr. HAMPHYN CARLSON, in charge of sales of

aircraft, War Assets Administration, 155 West Washington, Los Angeles,

California, was interviewed regarding the possible sale of tactical

airplanes.

He stated that he had not made a sale of a tactical type

airplane or any other plane in the last three weeks and advised that War

Assets Administration would notify the Los Angeles FBI Office if any

requests were made concerning the purchase of aircraft or any type of surplus

military equipment.

Special Employee BASCOM SHANKS checked the records of the Retail

Nerchants Credit Association and ascertained that there was no derogatory

information in the file concerning JOSEPH J. FLICK, Jo.

and requested to cooperate should they receive any information regarding

They agreed to aid in any manner possible should they receive informa-

tion regarding planes or pilots mentioned in this case.

CGII LA 23081 advised this office that the telegram sent by OLIN

DAVIS MASON, mentioned in reference teletype from Savannah, was sent From

a telephone coin box at telephone number ATlantic 19547 It has been

established through CGII IA-2 that the telephone listed under ATlantic

19547 is a pay station which is not connected with a business establishment.

It is located at 2601 West Valley Boulevard, Alhambra, California.

Inasmuch

as this is a lone pay station it is not believed possible that information

concerning the identity of the individual sending the telegram in question

can be established by personal interview of persons in the vicinity.

- 3-

980-109502

NW 54463 DooId: 32297929

Page 2

---

