# docid-32977089

## Page 1

Date : 07/14/98

Page

:

1

JEK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

NSC

RECORD

NUMBER

: 145-10001-10269

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

148

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 0SC 2107 Notel.

Case$:NU 54214 Date:

10-04-2017

--_-

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : NSC

FROM

MAXWELL TAYLOR

TO

: THE PRESIDENT

TITLE : MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

DATE : 09/27/62

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : THE SPECIAL GROUP (AUGMENTED) AND THE SPECIAL GROUP

(5412)

OPERATION MONGOOSE AND PROGRAM AGAINST VIETNAM

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS 1A,

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 02/17/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

NO JOINT STAFF OBJECTION

TO DECLASSIFICATION

MAR

2016

DATE:

IR] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54214 DocId: 32977089

Page 1

---

## Page 2

THE WHITE HOUSE

WASHINGTON

Realis

27 September 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE PRESIDENT

The Special Group. (Augmented) and the Special Group (5412) took

the following actions at their meetings today:

1.

MONGOOSE

In accordance with an earlier request by the Group, a proposal

for the use of balloons to drop propaganda leaflets, and

possibly

other small objects of propaganda value, over Cuba was discussed.

The Group approved the concept, subject

to presentation of a more

detailed operational plan.

In brief this operation would

involve the release from a small

boat, on a periodic basis, of small balloons which would overfly Cuba

at night and would drop propaganda materials through the means of a

timing device.

The Group felt that such an operation should be con-

ducted ostensibly by Cuban exiles, with close policy control behind

the scenes. The latter would include

peasant thou see me around the content eliable

weather and other technical information would be provided.

CIA has byilt up a considerable body of technical know-how on

operations of the type, from previous activities of a similar nature

in Europe.

2. Program Against Vietnam

The Group considered a proposal by CIA for covert activities

designed to harass the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. This had been

prepared in response to a request by the Secretaries of State and

Defense.

The Special Group asked that a more detailed operational plan be

prepared. In the meantime it was agreed that Defense will make certain

equipment and personnel available to CIA in support of this program.

An Elint flight designed to identify the North Vietnamese radar order

of battle, so as to permit planning of overflight routes, was authorized.

This will

be flown out of Saigon, using the specially-equipped aircraft

available on Taiwan, but with the Chinese Air Force markings removed,

and employing Chinese Nationalist pilots documented as South Vietnamese

citizens.

148

HH 54214

DocId: 32977089

Page 2

---

## Page 3

-2 .

3.

Stay-Behind Planning, Laos

The Group approved a CIA proposal for stay-behind activities in

Laos, involving Meo and Kha tribesmen. The mission of these individuals,

who have already been trained and equipped, will be basically restricted

collection of intelligence and the securing of safe areas.

16,17

The plan is to a considerable extent contingent on the Thais agreeing

to alloy small numbers of their "special force" personnetto remain in

It is proposed to leave two Americans in the north with the

It was the firm consensus of

(4)

MAXWELL D. TAYLOR

54214

Doo1d:32977089

Page

---

