# docid-32302817

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

• 5/4/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10282-10329

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-204

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, NY

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/01/1965

5

SHF, ASSOC, CP ACT, FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS, PLM,

RCF, CP MEMBER, RODMAN, JACOB, EMP, TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination

Records

Collection let of 1992

144 USC 2107

Notel.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

1H 54464 DocId: 32302817 Page 1

169

---

## Page 2

TO

FRÖ

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-196

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES G

ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-339235) CIA HAS NO OBJECTION T03/1/65

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

SAC, NEW YORK (100-42479)

IN THIS DOCUMENT. K 9-22-97

SLD/KSR

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS - CH

1/31194

10-2-97

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 500/GCL

(JFK

- Classie

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X(((6)

Declassify on MADR

Rebulet 1/27/65.

1) 337/78636/98

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERUIN TS UNCEASSITIED

KNOSPE RAREE SHORN

OTHENVISE

the subject is the "Chinese paymaster." NY 694-S* stated that it

is his opinion that since HAll knows that the subject has been in

China and is now working day and night for the Chinese

must be a Chinese agent.

My 694-51 advised that HAls is inclined

to "talk off the top of

his head."

A review of the subject's banking activities since September

1963 has not revealed any unexplained financial transactions.

A11

deposits and withdrawals are in line with her income.

Concernig the statement attributed to PHILIPBART that the

pro-Chinese group in New York has four permanent employees and an

enormous sum of money at its disposal, it is pointed out that the

group in New York which adheres strictly to the Chinese Communist

line is the Progressive Labor Movement (PLM). CHU)

The subject is in frequent contact with the

leaders_ of the

PLM.

A review of the PLM file in the NYO and information furnished

by NY 466I-S indicates that MILTON, KAKROSEN, FRED JEROME, LEVI LAUB

and JACOB ROSEN are the leaders of this organization and have no means

of support outside of the PLM.-

N' PHILIP LUCE in a conversation with HERBERT

admitted former Communist. Party member, has stated that these

individuals completely dominate

From the aboveget would appear that the pro-Chinese group

are the four

permanent employeesREe grred to by

100-3382570

BUREAU

NEW YORK

RM

25-01

тегро ,

ng slip for

stain

21 MAR 2 1965

DAF: EMD

7 83 MAR 1 9 1965

8-65

33 DAG

NA'

NW 54464 DooId: 32302817

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 100-42479

These four individuals are the subjects of Bureau

investigations.

four individuals are

the subject and her husband, RICHARD Cellent contact with

1.%. - Eng

Concerning

the financing of the PLM, PHILIP LUCE

advised ROMERSTEIN that he believes the funds for PLM come from

I China but he does not know how.

NY 4661-S recently went to Canada on PLM business.

While there he met ABE MAINHEIM, who works as a translator for the

Hsinhua News Agency, as well as

two Chinese nationals employed

at the news"agency

MAINHEIM spent several years in China and

is planning to return to China.

NY 4661-S had several discussions with these people

aböut the various PLM publications.

During one of the

discussions

it was brought out that PLM is apparently, getting outside funds to

pay their staff, operate a press shop and print their publications.

It was brought out that PLM might be getting money from teking,

to which MAINHEIM replied, "They probably are."

MAINHEIM indicatec

the Communist Chinese would be willing to subsidize an organization

similar to PLM.

A review of the PLM file indicates that this organization,

although relatively new, does not seem to have financial difficulties.

The Bureau of Special Services, New York City Police

Department, who have an interest in PLM because of their involvement

in racial rioting in NYC, has advised that PLM seems to be wer

financed.

BSS advised that the PLM seems to go from a period of

letting bills pile up to a point where they pay all their bills

have plenty of money.

Wet In the sumer of 1964 the Nec to arrested wIlLIAM l

charges of criminal anarchy. EPTON had

Five so a bide in his possession de the time. the serial

numbers of the bills EPTON had were in the same sequence as the

bills discovered on a Chinese Intelligence Agent previously arrested

- 2-

ISONIS

,í."

HIH

54464 DocId: 32302817 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SCOR

NY 100-42479

in South Korea, who was carrying $200,000.00 in American

currency and $1,000,000.00 in Korean currency.

The closeness

of the serialization (56 numbers apart in one instance) would tend

to indicate EPTON'S. money was part of the same shipment as the

money in the possession of the Chinese agent, but, of course, it

would not be possible to prove the money was all a part o one

shipment.

During the race riots in the summer of 1964. another

PLM member was being questioned by a grand jury about reports that

he had been carrying

$5000.00 on his person.

He said he had no/

recollection of this, but did say that he had received some morev

recently

from the settlement of an estate.

In the latter part of 1964, FREDAJEROME, JACOB/ROSEN

and LEVISALB were discovered late at night by police in westchester

County in the act of burying two attache cases wrapped in plastic.

the attache cases contained old family records and it was his

mother's wish that they be buried on this estate.

Police checked

with JACOBRODMAN, owner of the estate, who said

they had his

permission to bury the records: RODMAN was a CP member in the

1940's and has been employed as a correspondent in Moscow for a

British newspaper.

employed as a

He and his wife were uncooperative witnesses

when they appeared before the HUA.

The police did not open

the attache cases:

ROSEN and the others said they would return

the next day, during the daylight hours to complete their task,

but they did

not.

Both PHILIP LUCE and NY 4661-S have stated that

¡publications of PLM are sent to. China and the Chinese send money

to PLM in payment for these publications.

Information has been

received that such a transaction was handled through the Two

Continents Commodity Corp.

(Chicago letter to Bureau dated

3/25/64 captioned

• "Communist Party, USA - Factionalism; IS - C")

This may be a source of the money coming from Peking to PLM.

Recently WILLIAM L. EPTON told an individual that if

he wished to make a tax-free donation to PLM the individual should

donate the money to the Louis M. Rabinowitz Foundation (Bufile

97-4878)

and this foundation in turn would give the money to PIM.

- 3-

SECRET

585-19253

NW 54464 DooId: 32302817 Page 4

---

## Page 5

NY 100-42479

This also may be a source of income for the PLM.

INY 4047-S* has advised that the subject is in frequent

contact with MILTON K. ROSEN, FRED JEROME, LEVI LAUB and JACOB

ROSEN.

le requent contact with ban and and at the monie alay) vi.

RICHARD C. FRANK is reported to have met with TANG

Ming-chou in London in 1964.TANG is one of the founders of the

"China Daily News" and is reported to be the head of political

intelligence in English-speaking countries for the Government

of Communist China..

"NY 4112-S* has produced information that the subject

has been in contact with TANG Ming-chou.:

Page 31, report of

SA DANIEL A. FLYNN, dated 5/4/64, at New

York).

This informant has

also produced evidence that! the

subject may have been in covert

contact with the New China News Agency in London,.

(Legat, London

letter to Bureau 6/29/64 and NYlet to Bureau 7/30/64.)

There

is strong evidence to indicate that the subiect

attended a meeting of pro-Chinese militants held in Albania in

August 1964.

3

The above information indicates that the subject maintains

contact with the Chinese community in New York through JAMES and

ANN LEE, the Chinese Communist Government through TANG Ming-chou

and the New China News Agency and the PLM. This gives rise to the

possibility that she may be the "Chinese paymaster."

If the subject is the "Chinese paymaster" these funds

could come to her from China through Chinese seamen or Chinese

traveling from Hong Kong to the U. S. who would transfer these

funds to the LEES and thence to the subject.

since the recent establishment of offices of the

New China News Agency in Canada andlin Mexico, these funds could

come tothe subjecttthrough these agencies of

the Chinese Government.

It is to be noted that NY 4047-S% has recently advised that the

100-339535-284

HIH

54464 DocId: 32302817 Page 5

---

## Page 6

NY 100-42479

subject and her husband had intended to go to

Mexico but have

postponed these plans indefinitely.

N.Y.

It is to be noted that LEO HUBERMAN, alleged to be

a contact of TANG Ming-chou, is currently in Mexico City.

(Bufile 100-8436)

note the el nat, a one gention.

directly or from PLM in Canada.

The NYD realizes that the best coverage of the

subject's activities is live informant coverage, and to this

purpose

the NYCKis attempting to put NY 4082-S in touch with

the subject 04)

The NYO is also remaining alert

an opportunity to

develop sophisticated coverage of the subject's activities

at her residence..

The Bureau is requested to contact the Legats at

Ottawa and Mexico City to request them to contact established

sources to determine if funds from the New China News

Agency

U.

S.

on thes citied a being sent to banking channels in the

i

- 5

HH 54464

DocId: 32302817

Page 6

---

