# docid-32294954

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10214-10230

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2918-52

Released under the John

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Motel.

Case#:NW 45854 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DOUCE, RICHARD GORDON

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 07/08/1958

PAGES:

65

SUBJECTS :

SMO, REL, ASSOC, GAMBLING ACT, BKG, TRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 2; 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOS:

COMMENTS: RPT, INDEX PAGES 58-63, INC R/S

v9.1

HH 45854

DocId: 32294954

10

Page 1

---

## Page 2

CONTVOENTIAL

RGD: jab

(8)

PG 92-220

92-236

"The remaining two stories of the building are occupied by six

private families.

The rental income from this building is

180,000 drachmaes per year ($6,000).

The value of this building

is assessed at 1,8000,000 drachmaes

($60,000).

"A rellable source, Director of the Greek Economic Committee,

has advised this office that the rental incomes and the values

of the above mentioned buildings are about one-half to two-thirds

of the actual amount?

as it is the tendency of property owners

to report a lower value and lower income to avoid paying higher

source further advised

that the above information concerning

Subject's financial status is classified as "Secret" by the

Greek law,

and requests that sources of information' remain

anonymous:

"STYLIANOS RACCUSSIS, #1 Frederikos Street, Piraeus, and

various policemen of

the Ist Police Precinct of Pireaus were

interviewed regarding Subject's reputation. Sources advised

that Subject is the

owner of various nightclubs and shops in the

United States. It is said that Subject proposes

Athens Sithin the nested he beet poetre wath turn amly.

They described Subject as a

good man,

and that he, his wife and

son enjoy

a good reputation in the neighborhood;

they are of

sound political views and never have given

cause for complaint.

Sources further stated that Subject's legal representative in

Greece is GEORGE LEMONIS, who is residing in one of the

apartments in Subject's building located at #57 Sahtouri Street,

Piraeus.

"The files of the Aliens Directorate were reviewed and the

following information extracted:

"MINAS HAZIDAKIS, Son Of GEORGE and MARIS, born in 1900,

In Mentes, Karpathos.- Arrived in Greece on July 14,

1947, with American passport No. 7893 issued in

Washington, D.C. Subject departed Greece on

September 8,

in Washington. He departed from Greece on September 24,

1956.

-9=

92-2918-52

NW 45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 2

---

## Page 3

TAL

RGĐ :mz

(4)

PG 92-228; 92-236

ALLEGED CONTROL OF: NUMBERS AND HORSE BETTING

MORGANTOWN, Wa VA.

Sheriff CHARLES WHISTON, Monogalia County,

Morgantown; W. Va.,

who has been connected with law enforcement since world

war Il advised SA VERNON E. DANIELS on April 8, 1958, that

to the best of his knowledge the MANNARINO brothers of New

Kensington, Pa, have never operated in the Morgantown area.

PROSTITUTES

TARANTUM, PAC

NORMA GRILLO, an admitted prostitute, on May 5, 1958, advised

SA JOHN S. PORTELLA that under no circumstances woud

she

disclose the identity of the person or persons she allegedly

consulted who in turn discussed with GABRIEL MANNARINO the

opening of a house of prostitution in Tarentum, Pa.

It is recalled that in an interview with SA PORTELLA on March 25,

1958, GRILLO stated that through her "contacts"

she had

discussed the opening of a house of prostitution and that

GABRIEL MANNARINO supposedly told her contacts that she could

go ahead

with her plans as long as the house was not located

In New Kensington, Pa.

NARCOTICS AND JEWELRY

T-22 on April 10, 1958; stated that in conversation with

SAMUEL MANNARINO approximately two and one-half years ago

he (T-22) happened to mention that it was becoming increasingly

difficult to make a living in gambling because of lay offs

at some of the industrial plants in the area.

According to

T-22, MANNARINO then stated in all seriousness that T-22 should

serious thought to smuggling cocaine into the U. S. from

Greece or uncut diamonds from Rotterdam, Holland. T-22 went

on to say that MANNARINO told him that he should be able to make

such arrangements with the cousin of T-25, who at that time

was employed as a chief engineer for one of the major steamship

- 42 =

T7: 2 918-55567

NW 45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 3

---

## Page 4

COMMENTAC

RGD : mz

(5)

PG 92-228, 92-236

lines that called at Greek and Dutch ports.

T-22 pointed

out that MANNARINO urged him to make

the necessary

arrangements and stated that if T-22 was

• successful he

(MANNARINO) had a contact who could get rid of all the

uncut diamonds or cocaine I-22 could supply.

T-22 said that naturally he did not make any such

arrangements with the cousin of T-25 not only from the

standpoint of the serious penalties connected with narcotics

smuggling but also because he knew the cousin of T-25, an

honest young man who would never go for such a proposition.

E.

LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISES

NATIONAL FILBEN CORPORATION

CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

It is recalled that records of the Cook County Recorders

Office, Chicago, Illinois, reviewed by SA RADPH Rd HILe

Jr. on January 24; 1950, identified B. B. DAVIDSON of

Chicago, Ill., as a former officer in National Filben when

the corporation was chartered in March, 1947.

• The records of the Office of the Massachusetts Commissioner

of Probation; Suffolk County Court House, Boston, Mass., a

" central repository for all criminal conviction records in the

Commonwealth of Massachusetts, contain no record for an

individual identifiable with BERTRAM B: DAVIDSON, Sr. (Date

of Birth December 22, 1907).

JAMES GIBBONS, Assistant Clerk, Suffolk Superior Court

located

a record of the indictment of BERTRAM B. DAVIDSON by

thie

October, 1946 Suffolk County Grand Jury on a charge of

"Larceny of $10,000 property of BERTOKLAPPER,CINC., a corporation

legally

established and existing

DAVIDSON was arrested in

Chicago, Ill. October 21, 1946;

Boston Police Officer

JOSEPH CROWLEY, Division 2, went

but extradition was denied.

to Chicago to bring him back;

Case was" handed before Grand Jury

by Assistant District Attorney FRANCIS J. HICKEY•

On April 30;

1947, Judge BROGNA placed case on file until arrest of defendant.

- 43

92-2918-57

NW 45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 4

---

## Page 5

+HT

RGD :mz

(10)

PG 92-228, 92-236

tOt

Go TRAVEL

(Gabriel Mannarino)

HERMAN SLATT, 8911 Dickens Avenue, Surfside, Fla.;

May 12; 1958; advised SA ROBERT K. LEWIS that the AMATO

family that had been occupying the MANNARINO home at

8919 Dickens Avenue returned to their home in Pittsburgh

around 10 days ago, stating that they expected to return

around

Christmas.

SLATT identified a photograph of GABRIEL

MANNARINO as an individual he believed visited the residence

at 8919 Dickens Avenue on one occasion during the past

winter.

The Miami Office on May 12, 1958, advised that daily spot

checks had been conducted

on

the residence at 8919 Dickens

Avenue,

surfside, Fla., without developing any information

concerning the whereabouts of GABRIEL MANNARINO:

I-27, who has furnished reliable information in the past,

on April 18, 1958, stated that he last saw GABRIEL MANNARINO

approximately two

years ago in Florida and has no Information

regarding his present location. T-27 pointed out that he

is not acquainted with GABRIEL MANNARINO personally.

MICHAEL GIORANO, FBI #217633B,

MANNARINO and 1s not aware of his present location..

, GIORANO

declined tofurnish any additional information regarding the

MANNARINO brothers and was arrested on May 12, 1958, by agents

of the Miami Office in connection with an Interstate Transportation

of Stolen Property matter.

T-22 on April 28, 1958, stated that LOUIE CATORIS, owner of

the. Catoris Candy Company in New Kensington,, Pa.,

told him

on the morning of April 28, 1958, that on the afternoon of

Aprit 22 or April 24, 1958, he mailed a box of GABRIEL

MANNARINO's favorite candy to the MANNARINO home in Surfside,

Fla. T-22 did not consider it advisable to press CATORIS fOr

additional information at the risk of arousing his suspicions.

- 48 -

CONTONTIA. 4229859

NW 45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CONNUENTIAL

RGD :mz

(17)

PG 92-228, 92-236

INFORMANTS

T-1 is NY 204-S contacted by SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and THOMAS Jo

EVERY •

T-2 1s. Il. S. individual income tax returns filed by

JEK Law 11(a)

for the years/

furnished to the Bureau by the Internal Revenue Service,

Washington, D. C., around June 25, 1958.

1-3 is the report of security Officer LOUIS M. MARRANO,

Division of Security, Department of State, American Embassy,

Athens, Greece, dated May 21; 1958, Athens.

JEK Act 6 (4)

T-4 is

PCI, contacted by SA RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

T-5 is DASMALCOIM ANDERSON, Assistant Atterney General,

Criminal Division, U. S. Department of Justice

(memorandum to Director, FBI dated May 16, 1958).

I-6 is DE 370-C contacted by SA PALMER M. WEE.

T-7 is ROBERT STACK, Manager, Bell Telephone Company

Business Office, New Kensington,

Pa., contacted by SAS DAMON Wa

PITCHER and RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

now!

T-8 Is HAROLD ALSTON, manager, Northwest Telephone Company,

East TrOy, Wisconsin, contacted by SA HAROLD E. DUNCAN.

T-9 and T-10 are JOHN MADDEN and MARION HUTH,

respectively,

both clerical employees of the U. S. Post Office, East Troy,

Wisconsin, contacted by SA DUNCAN.

T-11 IS CHARLES P. MAIER, Village President and President

of the State Bank, East Troy, Wisconsin, contacted by SA DUNCAN.

T-12 Is MRe ARE FORCE, Public Relations Director, Southern

Nevada Telephone Company, contacted by unidentified special

agent; date of contact unknown.

STATE DEP'T INFO AT T.3

IS UNCLASSIFIED PERR THEIR

40/19/96 LTR.

- 55 -

92-2918-52

ONFIDENTIAt

j1(a)

HIH

45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 6

---

## Page 7

".,

-CONH

NHAL

JEK Act

6

RGD :mz

(18)

PG 92-228, 92-236

T-13 • 1S. THERESA DOUGHERIY, Bell Telephone Company of

Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,. Pa., contacted by SE E. DAVIS

PORTER.

T-14 IS MARY LAWTON, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph

Company, Miami, Fla., contacted by SA ROBERT E. SUNKEL.

1-I IS EDWARD L. BRAUNE; New York City Telephone Company,

contacted by SA FRANCIS X• KANE, Jr.

I-I6 is CSWF-28 contacted by unidentified agent of the

Washington Field Office.

T-17 is records subpoenad from the Bell Telephone Company,

New Kensington,

Pa., by the Senate. Select Committee on

Improper Activities

in the Labor Or Management Field

relating to telephone calls eminating from GABRIEL MANNARINO'S

home in New Kensington for period May 28, 1957 = November 20,

1957%

Material furnished to Bureau around May 7, 1958.

T-18 is MEX-46 contacted by Legal Attache, Mexico City,

date of

contact unknown.fpa/4

I-19 Is HAV-31 contacted by Legal Attache, Havana.

7-20 is Legal Attache; Havana.

1-21 is

PCI, contacted by SA NORMAN T. THOMPSON.

T-22 isl

symbol assigned

T-23 is PG 509-C contacted by SA JOHN S. PORTELLA.

T-24 is U. S. Attorney HUBERT I. TEITELBAUM, Western District

of Pennsylvania (memorandum to the Pittsburgh Office dated

June 13, 1958).

- 56 -

CONF

JAI

tan-

HH 45854 DocId:32294954 Page 7

---

## Page 8

RGD : mz

CONDOENTIAt

T-25 1s TOM LATTOS, roommate of PCI

T

symbol assigned to further protect

T-26 is WILLIAM ADAMS, owner, Adams Music Company,

New Kensington, Pa.; contacted by SAS DOUCE and FORSYTH.

T-27 is MM 501-C contacted by SAS C. GRAHAM HURST and

ROBERT K. LEWIS.

T-28 is A. G. SULLIVAN, Postmaster, U. S. Post Office;

New Kensington, Pa.; contacted by SAS DAMON W. PITCHER

and RICHARD GORDON DOUCE.

contacted by SA ROBERT K.. LEWIS.

T-30 1S HARRY ZIMMERMAN, mailman, U.S. Post Office,

who

delivers daily to homes on Dickens Avenue, Surfside,

Fla., contacted by SA LEwIS.

T231 is Mrs. D. J. BROWN, Day Manager, Garden of Allah

Motel, Miami Beach, Fla., contacted by SA ELMER F. EMRICH.

I-32 is PG 545-C contacted by SA DOUCE.

T-33 18 WALTER J. SHARKEY, PCI, contacted by SA DOUCE.

CRIMINAL, INFORMANT COVERAGE

FJEK Act 6 (4)

PG 545-C

PG 564-0

WATTER I SHARKEY, PCI

PCI

- 57 -

HW 45851 DocId: 32291954 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CONFIDENTIAL

PG 92-228

92-236

INDEX

Hacienda Hotel-.

HARPER, L.E., MR.

HART,

PAUL-

HARZIPAHOULIS, G.

HAWK, CLYDE-

Hayes Bar--

HAZIDAKIS, GEORGE--

HAZIDAKIS,

KALIOPI-

HAZIDAKIS,

MARIA-

HAZIDAKIS,

MIKE GEORGE-

HAZIDAKIS,

MINAS--

HICKEY, FRANCIS J

Holiday House-

IMBURGIA, BENJAMIN-

IMBURGIA,

C.G.--

IMBURGIA, .

CHARLES-

IMBURGIA,

MIKE--

Integrity Club-

Italian Club

Italian Gambling Syndicate

Jennings Slot Machine Company-

JEROME, NICK--

INU, "JOE"'--

JOHN, ANNA MAE

JOHN, AQUINO--

Jones Brewing Company--

KARAISKOS, DION--

KARAVEVAS, HAR.

KATOGIRITON, KALIOPI----

Ken Iron and Steel Company--

KERRIGAN, JOSEPH---

KIRIAKOPOULOS, PAR. --

KLAPPER, BERT, INC. --

KONTAXIS, TH. -

LA LEMBOUKOWRIS, ANTON

NAMES ON PES 59-63 RELATIG INDEX

TO INFO ONEPALES 8,9,10 FURNISHED

BY STATE DERM ARE UNCLASSIFIEO

ARE UNCLASSIFIED COMNDENTIAI

PER DOS's 10/19/46 ETe

NW 45854 DooId: 32294954 Page 9

JFK Law 11(a)

Pages

- 22

--14,15

-50

- 36

12

-8

,9,10

7,10

8

8,11

, 9

43,44

-39

-25

-31

-26,27

-26

-26

-26

-46

46

-35,36

-22

396

-11,

+24

- 39

-39

-12,13

3

3, 44

8

129-2918-52

1i(a)

---

