# docid-32285867

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10194-10143

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-9-29-547

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, WMFO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/21/1962

2

CIP, GAMBLING, ACT, NESLINE, JOSEPH, COHAN, NATHAN,

DC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/14/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32285867

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 05c 2107

Hote). - DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL FORM NO. iÚ

5010-101

UNITED STATES

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

6/21/62

FROM

SAC, WEO (92-748) (RUC)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM,

MIAMI DIVISION..

(00: MM).

ReNNlet to Bu dated 5/17/62, instant caption.

Enclosed for the MM Division are two photos each of

NATHAN PAUL COHAN and JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE. Descriptions of

these individuals are set

forth on the reverse side of the photos.

NATHAN PAUL COHAN has been involved in gambling

enterprises in the Washington, D. C., area since 1940. Records

of the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD), Washington, D: C.,

3/13/40

WE 1069-C advised SA WILLIAM C. CARROLL that NATHAN PAUL COHAN

Washington, D. Co,

•, area Ior/a substantial number or years.

JOSEPH TRANCIS NESLINE has been involved in Washington,

D. Co, area gambling activity since the early 1940s.

recent years he has been recognized as one of the top figures

in Washington, D. C., gambling and rackets: NESLINE has never

been known to have been gainfully employed

a legitimate

occupation.

He has served time for violation of Internal Revenue's

liquor laws and in 1951 he was arrested by the MPD, Washington, &

D. C., and subsequently convicted for carrying a concealed weapo

and was sentenced to serve a term of one year and one day.

charge resulted from an incident on 1/10/51 when NESLINE shot

and killed one GEORGE HARDING, in Washington, D. C.

22.

Bureau

Miami (Enc. 4)

92-187) (NESLINE)

3 - WTO-

~5 (COHAN)

(NESLINE)

REC- 25

301-X3

62-9-21-547

5 JUN 22 1962

"ANUAE TEL

• (9)EBI

•DocId: 32285867 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 111 USC 2109

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO 92-748

On 6/15/62, WF 1069-C advised SA WILLIAM C. CARROLL

that NESLINE has been known as a leading figure in Washington,

D' C., gambling activities during recent years.

On 6/15/62,

WE 1108-C advised SA WILLIAN C. CARROLL

that NESLINE currently owns a substantial interest in the

Amber Club, 1453 Pennsylvania Avenue, S. E., a gambling casino.

Infornant advised that card games and dice games of limited

size are held almost nightly at the Amber Club.

WE 1069-C and

WT 1103-C are individuals who are acquainted with members of

the gambling element and their activitios in

the Washington,

Do Co,

area;

Wr 1069-C and WF 1108-C have furnished reliable

information in the past and should be so listed

on

FD 323.

2

DocId: 32285867

Page

---

