# docid-32292533

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10209-10309

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-1150

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBi

FROM:

ANDERSON, ELLIOTT W.

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/16/1966

PAGES:

30

SUBJECTS :

GAL, REL, RES, GIRL FRIEND, B/F INT, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32292533

Page 1

423

Date:

6/12/201

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

---

## Page 2

CG 92-373

# 35117, issued at New York to D. R. FUEGER. It is noted

FUEGER spent a short period of time in New

York prior to a

European trip last December.

2.

Will contact the stock transfer

agent for

Automatic Canteen Corporation in possession of identity of

owners of stock located First National City Bank, New York,

to determine if ALEX, Bodyguard NATHAN LLADON, or SUZANNE

FUEGER, aka DIETGARD

ROSEMARIE have stock in this company.

It is noted the Divisional Dispersing Agent at the above

bank may have this information, and it is requested that

New York obtain the complete details of the stock transection

should any be located.

3.

Will, in view of informant's information concerning

ALEX's influence in union matters allegedly in New York,

contact logical informants in this regard to determine if, in

fact, ALEX is known there and wheels any influence in New

York

union matters.

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

Will follow and report

attempt to obtain information involving ALEX and the recording

industry as it is to be prepared for presentation to a

forthcoming Federal Grand Jury in Chicago.

ADMINISTRATIVE

CG 6443-C-TE advised SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JR. on

March 24, 1966, that GUS ALEX is moving into the garage

concession shop among the business and apartment hotels on

Lake Shore Drive.

This will represent a tremendous lucrative

investment by ALEX inasmuch as the average cost per month

per car in each of the garages located in these apartment

hotels is approximately $40. ALEX will not be reflected on

any records or documents in connection with the ownership or

KAPLAN as the legitimate operator.

- B

COVER PAGE

908-1030d

NW 45679 DocId: 32292533 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 92-373

According to this source he had learned that HAROLD PERLMAN

had been

the first victim in connection with the loss of

garage consessions at 1000 North Lake Shore Drive.

This

source further stated

that ALEX has moved in on AL. ROBBINS

of the Robbins Construction Company, and because of this

will be in a position to control most of the garage

consessions

on North Lake Shore Drive and in the buildings

currently under construction in that area.

CG 6706-C advised SA JOHN J. OITZINGER on April 4,

1966, that Attorney EUGENE BERNSTEIN, a well known Chicago

tax attorney, had recently obtained

a tax settlement for

FRANK CARUSO with the Internal Revenue Service in the amount

of $10,000. BERNSTEIN was reportedly asked by GUS ALEX to

handle

this tax matter for CARUSO without any fee from

CARUSO •

CG 6443-C-TE advised SA ROBERTS on April 1, 1966,

that during a recent conversation with a close friend of

ALEX, he had learned that one of the primary concerns on

the part of ALEX in connection with a subpoena received

was the fact that ALEX's New York dealings and his

connections with union officials might become known.

In this regard informant stated that ALEX has for

several years exercised a dominent influence in New York

union matters concerning hotels, motels, bartenders, and

related fields of endeavor.

It was stated that ALEX's

influence is a direct result of his friendship with JAMES R.

HOFFA and his association with ALLAN and PAUL DORFMAN.

It

was stated that ALEXuütilized the DORFMAN family as his

messengers and as contact between himself and HOFFA, and

further, through the DORMANS, is able to exercise influence

in the New York unions. It was further stated that ALEX on

numerous occasions visits in the New York area for a short

period of time and possibly flies out in the morning and

returns that evening.

He has been extremely careful to insure

that these trips

as well as contacts are unknown.

_ C-

COVER PAGE

90d-1030d

NW 45679 DocId: 32292533 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 92-373

It was the opinion of this source the influence

which ALEX exerts in New York is considerable.

Chicago received information from the Bureau

on April 8, 1966, concerning action of swiss authorities

in barring ALEX from Switzerland and specifically alsc

included material indicating ALEX's attorneys are

continuing their efforts to have this ban lifted. Enclosed

with this letter was an airtel from the Legat - Bern,

Switzerland to the Director, March 29, 1966.

The Swiss Central Police Bureau (SCPB) has been

informed of ALEX's intention to leave the United States

next June and travel to France, Germany, Italy, England,

and Greece for two months.

informed that he received an Operations Memo from the

ROBERT C. ODS, Consular Section, the Embass bepartment

of State, classified confidential, dated March 16, 1966, •-

enclosing a letter from JOSEPH H.

SHARLITT,

attorney,

representing ALEX.

The Department requested the Embassy to

provide information on this case, particularly as to the

grounds on which the Swiss have barred ALEX from Switzerland.

The Operations Memo also contained a letter from the Legal Adviser,

Department of State, dated March 3, 1966, addressed to SCS

Mr. WILLIAM. R. JOCHIMSEN from L/SCA FREDERICK SMITH, JR.

This letter mentions the letter from SHARLITT, indicates

that the Organized Crime and Racketeering Section of the

Criminal Division, Department of Justice, is well 'acquainted

with ALEX and stated that the writer has

not yet heard from

the FBI. A Copy Of SHARLITT's letter is enclosed for the

Bureau.

ODE has inquired if I could furnish him with

information to provide the Department of State in this mattet,

since I was the one who had been in contact with the

Swiss

Police with regard to ALEX.

It is

suggested that I reply to ODE as follows:

P0S

REVIEWED BY

EWJFK TASK FORCE

- D

COVER PAGE

ON /2-6-95 DAb/TH

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CONIAL

92-3182-1150

50d1030d

NW 45679 DooId: 32292533

Page 4

---

## Page 5

DOS

REWEWED BY BUJFK TASK FORCE

515-6-95 DAD/TH

CG 92-373

AT RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

In past years, the Swiss Police

have been requested

to furnish any information they might have concerning the

activities and contacts of GUS ALEX while in Switzerland,

in view of his association with individuals with criminal

entor banana in

against ALE

In February No request was made to the Swiss

19o the Swiss authorities issued an

authorities for sentry baRgainst ALEX nOtwaS it

indicated to them that such would

It is understood from Swiss sources that the

swiss authorities cannot be regatty requireduto reveal the

reason for he suanceran entry

The foregoing is furnished for the information

of the Department of State and it is requested that it not

be disseminated outside that agency.

In view of the statement in the letter of FREDERICK

SMITH, JR., that he had not yet heard from the fBI,

it is

presumed that he has madeinquiry of the Bureau in this matter.

The Bureau is therefore requested to review what

information, if any, was furnished Mr. SMITH, and then

inform if it considers the above information

appropriate to

furnish ODE. Mr. ODE has indicated that he would greatly

appreciate expedite action by me in this case.

By letter of April 13, 1966, the Legat - Bern,

advised the Bureau as follows:

As instructed I informed ROBERT C. ODE, Consular

Section, American Embassy, Bern, that I was not in a position

to advise him concerning this situation.

ODE stated he was informing the State Department

that he had been unable to ascertain the exact reasons for

the Swiss entry ban on ALEX,

HANS PETER WYSSMANN, a good contact of this office in

the Swiss Federal Department of Justice and Police (SEDJ?)

informed he had been in touch with the appropriate official

of the Service of Appeals of the STDJP and that this official

had assured him that there was little possibility of the entry

ban against ALEX being revoked or of the reasons for the ban

being revealed.

- 77

COVER DAGE

34983182-1150

10590

NW 45679 DocId: 32292533

Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG 92-373

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

CG T-1 is CG 6528-C

CG T-2 is PCI

CG T-3 is CG 6443-C-TE

CG T-4 is CG 6564-₽C

CG T-5 is CG 6614-6

CG T-6 is CG 6443-C-TE

CG T-7 is PCI RUDY DROZD

CG T-8 is CG 6187-C

CG T-9 is EDWARD FELDMAN

at Los Angeles

JEK Act 6 (4)

Contacting Agent

SA ELLIOTT W. ANDERSON

SA PETROS A. KOTSOS

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JR.

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR,

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

SA JOHN W. ROBERTS, JR.

SA SAM T. GALOVICH

SA ROBERT L, MALONE

SA AMEDEE O, RICHARDS, JR.

CG T-10 is CSLA 4757-C

CG T-11 is CG 6988-C

CG T-12 is CG 6911-C

Unknown agent

SA JOHN E. DALLMAN

SA JOHN E. DALLMAN

Duo symbols were provided in one instance to

further protect the identity of the informant.

-F*

COVER PAGE

50d-1030d

HH 45679

DocId: 32292533

Page 6

---

## Page 7

• FD 204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UN

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF J... TICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File #:

Title:

1 - USA, Chicago

SA ELLIOTT W. ANDERSON

JUN 1-6 1900 •

92-373

GUS ALEX

Office:

Chicago

Bureau File #:

92-3182

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis:

Info regarding family and sale of mother's residence learned.

INS stop placed on SUZANNE FUEGER, who left Chicago for

Germany, 6/2/66. Info set forth regarding associations of

ALEX.

ALEX frequently has. lunch at same restaurant, Chicago

Loop. Information obtained regarding SAM KAPLAN's garage

No record of stock ownership for ALEX at RCA.

Large bookmaking center raided reportedly part of ALEX's

gambling interest. ALEX seen Los Angeles area 4/24. and 27/66..

-Letter from ALEX's attorney to U. S. State Department questioning

banishment from Switzerland obtained. Informant

advised ALEX handles Chicago Loop for hoodlums and reportedly

intervened in proposed killing of RICHARD HAUFF.

by Bureau agents 3/24/66, and fellow

hoodlums advise ALEX upset because of this. FRANK MIA

allegedly "hit man" for ALEX.

JEK Law 10(a)2

- p-

92-3182-1150

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency: it and its

contents are not to be distributed outside your adency.

10(a) 2

HH 45679

DocId: 32292533

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 92-373

on May 20, 1966, destination Kennedy Airport in New York City.

She will change to TWA Flight # 740 on the same date, fly

from Kennedy to Frankfurt, Germany, leaving Kennedy at

7:30 PM. In Frankfurt she will take Lufthansa Flight # 101,

on the morning of May 21, 1966, departing Frankfurt 9:50 AM,

bound for Munich, Germany.

JAMES also indicated that NICK NITTI, known

hoodlum associate and used by them for their travel arrangements,

made reservations to Germany on June 6, 1966, exact

destination unknown.

On May 16, 1966, WILLIAM JAMES, TWA, again called

advising that FUEGER had contacted his office

changed her reservations from May 20, 1966 to June 3,

May 15, 19601966,

utilizing the same flights and ultimate destination without

cancelling her former reservations.

The caller identified

herself as FUEGER, but JAMES stated an unidentified male

voice in the background appeared to be dictating information

she was

reciting about her change of plans.

She concluded her

conversation by stating she would be in touch with TWA soon,

but that they could not reach her; and she would have to call

them.

When

they called the number she had furnished, which

is reportedly her apartment phone number, they had no success

in

reaching her

On June 3, 1966, BILL JAMES of TWA advised that

Miss FUEGER had departed Chicago on June 2, 1966, as planned.

advised that he will contact proper authorities as soon

he receives

any information that ALEX or FUEGER have entered

Greece.

- 3 -

92.3182-1150

1010300

HIH

45679

DooId: 32292533

Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 92-373

Previous officers of this corporation were

identified as follows:

NORMAN S. SILVER, Former Vice

President, now operates

Norman Auto Parts, 535 North St. Clair.

VI.

INVESTMENTS

On March 23, 1966, Miss JERRI MATTHEWS, Secretary to

Mr. LESTER E, STEINER,

Record Department, RCA, 60 Broad Street,

New York City, advised SA DONALD E. JONES, their files reflect

no record of

stockholders of reoord of RCA stock. He stated that

either GUS ALEX or SAN ALAX with aliaseSt as being

probably own street name stock and in that event dividend

checks would be sent from their broker.

VII. HANGOUTS

CG T-7 advised in february, 1966, that shortly

after January. 19, 1966, he observed ALEX at 188 West

Randolph making daily visits to the law offices of Beiber

and Brodkin and to Postl's Health Club. CG T-6 advised on

Februaryll, 1966, that ALEXis very close to JAMES CELANO,

Operator of a tailor shop in the 600 Block of North Michigan

Avenue.

The informant also advised that ALEX visits the

Apex Amusement Corporation at 9:00 AM each day and after

bo a that

leaving Apex he usually visits the above tailor shop daily.

The informant stated that ALEX has been somewhat

aloof since he is shaken by the issuance

aw 10(a)2

- 6 -

92-3182-1150

Sodidare

HH 45679

DooId: 32292533

Page 9

---

## Page 10

CG 92-373

The Police Judiciaire (Criminal Police), Surete"

Nationale (PUSN) ,

Paris,

France, was alerted on March 22

1966,

is to the subject's possible visit to Paris. It was calle

bristoi on previous visits to Paris.

wthad_nocidod.at the Hotel

They were advised that

in the event the Bureau received further specific information

regarding dates and

itinerary, they would be advised.

No information has been received thus far from

the PJSN®

They are alert to our interest and

will advise

in the event subject comes to their attention.

X. CRIMINAL ACTIVITIES

CG T-1l advised in March of 1966, that LOUIS ARGER

control of GUS

ALEX, who is in charge of outfit operations in the Loop area.

source also indicated the possibility that ALEX has a

representative tied in with the West side numbers operation.

This informant also stated that RICHARD HAUFF was

so hated by CIRCELLA that during the summer of 1965, he had

contracted to have HAUFF killed by 2 "hit men" from

Detroit.

When ALEX learned of this he ordered CIRCELLA to send the

men back to Detroit.

On March 22, 1966, Assistant United States Attorney (AUSA)

DAVID P. SHIPPERS advised that a subpoena was to be issued

on this date for ALEX's appearance before the Federal Grand

Attorney (AUSA)

Jury March 24, 1966, in connection with the BERNARD GLICKMAN

extortion matter.

- 18 -

92-3182-1150

50d1030d

NW 45679 DooId: 32292533

Page 10

---

