# docid-32259714

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

HSCA

180-10102-10272

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

012382

Date:

10/2/201

Released under the John

f. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54653 Date:

10-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM: PALMER, BETSY

TO :

DIRECTOR; FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/05/1978

PAGES:

1'

SUBJECTS :

FBI; FILES

FRD (FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO)

TRIPLE A

MRR (MOVIMIENTO DE RECUPERACION

REVOLUCIONARIA)

RESCATE

MONTECRISTI GROUP

DOCUMENT TYPE: MEMORANDUM

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/05/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS: Box 220.

v9.1

HH 54653

DocId: 32259714

Page 1

---

## Page 2

712104

MEMORANDUM FOR THE DIRECTOR

FROM: BETSY PALMER

DATE: OCTOBER 5, 1978

SUBJECT: FBI File Review - Movimiento de Recuperacion

Revolucionaria (MRR)

On October 5, 1978, I reviewed three volumes of a five

volume record on the MRR. Volumes 1 and 2 were not

located and they undoubtedly covered the period of 1960-

1963 which are of interest to this Committee.

Consequently,

notes were taken only on the volume entitled Miscellaneous

Reference and the others were not pertinent to this in-

vestigation.

Miscellaneous References

1.

#105-87912-59

September 20, 1960

Report from New York

Title:

Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD)

The FRD was formed in August and September of 1960 and

was composed of MRR, Rescate, Triple A, MDC, the

Montecristi group and one group with no name. The

head of each group is a member of the Directorate of

the FRD.

Artime heads MRR, the largest group, made up of Catholic

students from universities in Cuba.

They are liberal

in their thinking and organized into cells. To date,

they have provided the largest number of recruits for

the FRD.

HH 54653

DooId: 32259714

Page

2

---

