# docid-32308779

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10296-10107

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-83419-10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 12/31/1959

• PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

NRO, ASSOC, BATISTA, FULGENCIO, EXILE, TRA, US, TEST,

FINANCES, IID, INTV

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/16/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INS

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO INS, INC LHM

. .

v9.1

DocId: 32308779

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 210r Hotey.

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO, 64

Office Menu. indum • UNITED STA. 3S GOVERNMENT

TO

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

DEC 3 1 1959

FROM

SUBJECT:

* FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-2214)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

RE:

DEC: ASSILICATION AND/OR

LEONARD BURSTEN;

ALFRED MANHEIM;

PELi

ME SIMATION

CONGRESSMAN ABRAHAM MULTER; IN JUS COCUMENT. 5M 6 - 25-9)

ORLANDO PIEDRA;

EDUARDO HERNANDEZ;

FULGENCIO BATISTA;

3/2/28 T56

SLOSHSR

7-2897

Mrs. MARTA BATISTA;

He Rother n 35

for revlevat

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

BRIBERY

A HSCA rO 3/appraguest el

(JFK)

FRAUD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT - CONFE CIRSO)

OF INTEREST

ReBualrtel 12/18/59 to SAC, Miami.

ALL INFORMATION CONTANED

UNCLARSIMLO

BISPUBJA/BEL

It 277,795

Enclosed are eleven copies of a letterhead

memorandum suitable for dissemination, entitled:

"Alleged Plot to Bring About Entry into United States

of Former Cuban President Fulgencio Batista".

HEREIN IS

2/2/85

DATE

29/87 5PI/AGITAR

NN T-I IS ALFRED MANHEIM, 6328 S.W. 39th

Terrace, Miami,

who turnished Information to SA

GEORGE E. DAVIS, JR.

Miami will maintain close contact with

MANHEIM for additional Information and will check

appropriate telephone recoyas and cablegram records

for verifying data.

- Bureau (EncI. - 11ANCLOSURE

- New York (Encl.

2

-

9

- M1am1

(3 - 105-2214

105-1880

SEE REVERGE SIDE FOR

ADD. DACHAINATION.

COMES DESTROYED

105-1794

RECE

105-1827

134-190

26 SER 1 2 7974

GED: ems

(15)

105-1997

18 JAN

* 1960

105-1855)

-2.

• 3>

10:

18C

&i.

DocId: 32308779 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

MM 105-2214

Re:

Miam1, Florida

DEC 3 1 1959

ALLEGED PLOT TO BRING ABOUT

ENTRY INTO UNITED STATES OF

FORMER CUBAN PRESIDENT FULGENCIO

BATISTA

some reliable information in the past, and who has ar

acquaintance with a number of high officials of the

the following information:

MM I-l referred to the fact that former

Cuban President BATISTA 1s now living in exile in

the Madeira Islands, Portugal.

lami Beach attorney LEONARD L. BURSTEN, OffiC

address 407 Lincoln Road, Miami Beach, and residence

4838 Pine Tree Drive, Miami Beach, contacted ALFRED

LANHeM, Miami, relative to a plan conceived and put

Lnto motion by BURSTEN for the purpose of bringing

about the entry of PULGENCIO BATISTA into the United

MM I-1 described BURSTEN as being a former

United States Attorney at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, who

has in his possession a certificate to that effect,

who apparently has a very luerative legal practice

1n Miami Beach. BURSTEN claims to represent some

COPIES DESTROYED

2 6 SEP 1 2 1974

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED*

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIEO # 211,326

DATE 2/7/85

BY SPE BJA/BEL

13109180 spra6Iaк 97277,795

105-83419-

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32308779

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the

John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 111 USe 2107 note.

DATE: 11-14-2017

MM 105-2214

On December 18, 1959, MM T-I advised that

HERNANDEZ disclosed that on December 17th, he had

received a cable from Mrs. BATISTA, stating that her

ship would arrive at the Madeira Islands on December 21st,

and that HERNANDEZ should make certain as to what hotel

In Paris the United States Congressmen would be in, so

that QuELL in Madrid could meet them.

HERNANDEz expected

to hear from GUElL on the evening of December 2lst.

BURSTEN, according to M T-1, advised that

IRVING DAVIDSON waS st1l1 In Miami, but that DAVIDSON

was opposed to BATISTA's coming to

the united States,

DECaUSE BALISTA haS had connectIons WIth NORMAN ROTHLAN,

Miami Beach gangster and hoodlum, who, according to

DAVIDSON, once attempted to embarrass Vice President

RICHARD NIXON.

On December 14th, examination of the outbound

THA manifests in possession of Inmigration and Naturaliza-

tion Service, New York City, reflected that ABRAHAM and

BERTHA MULTER 139% East 21st Street, Brooklyn, Passport

Numbers 218346 and 218721, respectively, departed New

York City via TWA Flight 900, on November 25, 1959.

The first foreign port for this flight was Lisbon,

Portugal.

While being interviered in another matter, on

Washington,

advised Speclal Agents RICHARD B.

KELLOGO and DONALD HOETING he had learned while in

Miami over the past weekend, that a plan is under way

to get BATISTA into the United States, In spite of

previous refusals by umigration and Naturalization

Service and the State Department to allow his entry.

He said a group, whan he would not name, but some of

whom he said are

the United States for a price, by arranging for his

testimony before a Congressional Conmittee or Conmittees.

9-

• DocId: 32308779 Page 4

---

