# docid-32311507

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy ASsassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

11/22/20

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10317-10044

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-192109-32

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BT

TO:

HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

10/29/1973

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CAROLYN JANE MUGAR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocTa: 32311507

Page 1

13

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F: (Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONA

MAY

NITEDS

Memor

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (205-19210912

DATE: 10/29/73

FROM

SAC, BUTTEX

(105-1043) *ARUC)U

SUBJECT:

CAROLYN JANE

SUBVERSIVE MATTER

MUGAR ALL INPORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

00:

Boston

S UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT

HERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

¡EREIN IS UNCLASSIFIE

ReBulet to Boston, 10/19/73.

DATE3/13197 BY5668 SLO/6C4

JFKI

*On 5/30/73, BT 545-S advised that MARK LANE and

CAROLYN

MUGAR, both former members of "THE COVERED WAGON

a GI coffee house, Mountain Home, Idaho, are currently a?"

Wounded Knee, south Dakota, where LANE is acting as legal

counsel for AIM Indians.

On 9/10/73, BT 545- advised that CAROLYN MUGAR

has been

spending her time at Rapid City, South Dakota, for

the past month and a half.

MUGAR departed Rapid City for

her home in Boston, Massachusetts.

She spent the Labor Da

holidays in Boston.

The exact date she is to return to

Rapid City, South

Dakota, is unknown ((u)

The same source advised that MARK LANE is currently

residing at Rapid City, South Dakota, with CAROLIN MUG

is currently financing LANE's activities at Rapid City

nection with his serving as legal counselor to individuals

arrested in the AIM.

For the Bureau's information, all background infor

mation, including reports, concerning LANE and MUGAR were

furnished to Minneapolis by letter dated 8/30/73. This was

done in order to have Minneapolis aware of their background,

in view of the case entitled "CAROLYN JANE MUGAR; SA MAURICE

E. PEARSON - VICTIM, AFO," Minneapolis file #89-173.

An information:

Subject is residing within that territory.

(2 - Bureau (Reg.)

2 - Boston (Reg.)

1 - Minneapolis (Info.) (Reg

PASS. BY

REASON TOM

2 - Butte

DATE OF REVIEW

(1 - 89-114-MUGAR)

NOV 2 1973

PJF/ar

7)

I ME Sang Bon's Regularly on da 'agra Seres Phone?

5010-108-02

DocId: 32311507 Page 2

---

