# docid-32304724

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 210) Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10286-10354

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-6054-1ST NR 625

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CV

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/01/1964

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LCN, ASSOC, GAMBLING A/O BOOKMAKING ACT,

FINANCES, MURDER, TRIAL, SUBPOENAED, WIT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

N9.1

DocId: 32304721 Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

ATE: 441-14-2111

—D 30

(Rev. 10-29-63)

FBI

Date:

5/1/64

Transmit the following in

Vla

AIRIEL

AIR MAIL

TO :

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-742)

SAC, CLEVELAND (157-127) O

CAVBOMB

La Cistas

Pinatien

Re CV airtel to Bureau, 4/24/64.

CV 278-C TE advised on 4/30/64, there is some apparent

unrest among the underworld in Youngstown at the present time re

LOUIS TIBERIO, owner of the Tropies Lounge and allegedly Involved

in bookmaking activities. Through DOMINICK MALLAMO, aka "Big "Dom,

11

Organization," Informant has learned that

TIBERIO 1s not making a payoff to MALLAMO as are other gambling

operators and for this reason, TIBERIO could be hurt.

Informant

stated he will endeavor to maintain a close contact with MALLAMO

in this regard, but does not think any plans have been formulated

to date to hurt TIBERIO.

Informant stated that all of the operators

In the Youngstown area, including NAPLES and PETER FETCHETT payoff

to MALLAMO.

Mr. C. T.

"PETE" SHEEHAN, Assistant City Editor, Youngstown

Vindicator newspaper, advised that he had a conversation on the

night of 4/24/64, with GEORGE MILLOVICH, former Youngstown police

officer, and Vice Squad Chief under former Mayor FRANK R. FRANKO.

At this time MILLOVICH stated he had been one of the individuals

responsible in Inducing FRANKO to withdraw from the Democratic

Congressional primary that day, and to support incumbent Congress-

man MICHAEL J. KIRWAN.

He also stated that FRANK FETCHET, accord-

ing to MILLOVICH, had been working on FRANKO for about 6. weeks to

ORICINA O FILED

withdraw in favor of KIRWAN, and to support KIRWAN.

J-Bureau

- 62-9-11)

192-605

÷ 92-6054)

7-Cleveland

1 - 92-621)

NOT RECORDED

1 - 92-477

199 MAY 11 1964

1 - 92-748)

1

- 137-29 SA)

(1 - 137-341 SA)

CARBON COPY

SBP / 81k 3,76

78

MÁ7 * 41954

DocId: 32304724 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE; 71-14-2017

CV 157-127

CV 344-C advised he contacted FRANk MEZZAlESTA, kent.

unzo, close friend of murder victim DOMINICK MOIO body found in

trunk of his car at Canton, 0., 9/3/63), on 4/22/64.

MEZZATESTA

took informant around and introduced him as an old friend and told

associates of how he and informant were both hiding from the police

in DE, Mich., in 1929, and neither knew the other was wanted.

MEZZATESTA mentioned he had been close to MOIO for years and

had

met MOIO In DE.

MEZZATESTA advised CV 344-0 he believed MOIO had been

killed In Youngstown and his body was taken to Canton where It was

recovered. He stated MOIO definitely was responsible for the death

of BILLY NAPLES (bombing-murder victim 7/1/62):

He stated MOIO had

been ordered to set up NAPLES and took an active part in the murder.

He did not elaborate on the details or the others involved, but did

state that MOIO "led BILLY NAPIES around by his nose," and was on

his payroll.

MEZZALESTA said MOIO and NAPIEStad visited him many

times together, and he personally was very fond of BILLY NAPLES.

MEZZATESTA stated regardless of his feelings for NAPIES, when

"they" stated he had to be eliminated, he, MEZZATESTA was powerless

to do anything to stop his murder, regardless of his personal

MSZZATESTA stated MOIO had been definitely for hire

at all times and got mixed up with too many of the warring factions

In the Youngstown area and that as why he was killed.

MEZZATESTA told CV 334-C to stay away from Youngstown

as it was a "bad" town, and there was dissension between various

factions and they are not organized with lines of authority.

He

ampllfied this by stating one group would have the control of the

prosecutor,

another would have the sheriff, and another group would

have the police department. He stated that as an example, when a

group would open up the barbut game, with the consent of the

prosecutor, the sheriff would interfere and visa versa, and this

caused the bloodshed and jealousy.

CV. 344-C stated in talking to MEZZATESTA, he was able to

determine that although he appears to be a harmless Italian, he 1s

is called on to handle.

that he would handle a "contract" if he was asked to do so.

"He

also stated the possibility exists that he had been an accomplice

of MOIO In several of his bombings and arson cases, but he had

given him no details.

- 2.

DocId: 32304724

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 71-14-2017

CV 157-127

on 4/28/64, a conference was held by Common Pleas Judge

SIDNEY RIGELHAUPT with Assistant county Prosecutor WILLIAM HOUSER,

Mahoning Co. Prosecutor's Office, at which time prosecution of the

8 indictments secured by the Mahoning County GJ for gambling

violations, was discussed. In vlew of the present crowded condition

of the civil and criminal

these cases could not begin before 5/18/64. This date has been

tentatively set for the trial of RONALD DAVID CARABBIA.

It was

agreed that of those persons indicted, it was most important that

a successful prosecution be obtained against CARABBIA.

in mind, it was felt that if one or more of the persons of lesser

importance, such as STEPHEN ALMASY, MICHAEL S. GRANCHAY, Or RICHARD

MARZETTI,

wourd. tender a plea of guilty to the felony of promoting

the numbers with the tacit understanding that he would receive a

suspended jail sentence and 5 year period of probation, such plea

would be accepted by Judge RIGELHAUPT. Once convicted and on

probation, Judge RIGRIHAUPT stated he would be agreeable to having

them subpoenaed as witnesses for the prosecution in the CARABBIA

case.:

Both GAUL and GRANCHAY have previously furnished signed

statements to Bureau Agents admitting their participation In the

CARABBIA numberg business, but at best, they would be reluctant

witnesses.

It is hoped, that in this way some measure of coercion

can be applied to Induce them to be cooperative witnesses. BENNIE

WHITE, who is also indicted, and who has furnished a similar signed

Statement in the past to Bureau Agents, Is presently serving a 4

year sentence in the penitentiary for perjury committed before the

Federal GJ In CV, thus much of his effectiveness as a prosecution

witness has been vitiated. Extreme caution must, of course, be

exercised to insure that defense counsel for CARABBIA will not be

able to use this procedure to their advantage by raising the

Issue of false testimony elecited by promises of light treatment

by the prosecutor's office, however, despite this hazard, 1t 1s

felt that the method is necessary to produce the strongest case

possible against CARABBIA.

Additional info re CV 344-C Is being furnished the Bureau

under separate communication under caption of

"CAVBOMB. "

-

3

DocId: 32304724

Page 4

---

