# docid-32336768

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/2/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10163

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

105-82298-34

Released under the John

hasassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:NT 54462 Date:

10-05-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 11/09/1959

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54462 DocId:32336768

Page 1

5

---

## Page 2

CG 105-6867

MOREA DO RAMIREZ GERMADO

GERARDO MINERs

1959,

ROGER MILLER, Plant

superintendent, Heco Envelope Company, envelope manufacturers,

4500 West Contend strget gaysed

GERARDO JORGE, RAMIREZ,

Social

Securtty

who was

born 3/21/32, at

was employed by the Heco

Envelope

Company as an

envelope die

cutter, having

been steadily employed since 8/30/56. RAMIREZ had

spoken of having returned, to visit Cuba, once or

twice during this period of employment.

Records

reflected that RAMIREZ, who is married, has Selective

Service Number 11-20-32-270 and resides at 3512 Wes

Le Moyne Street.

on 1/4/57, RAMIREZ wrote to the

American Consul in Havana, requesting a visa for his

fiancee, JULIAN ERER VALDIVIA, Senatorio General

Batista, Topes de Collantes, Trinidad Las Villas,

Cuba.

U.S.

RAMIREZ'S cousin, DIONISIO PEREZ ORTEGA, formerly.

was employed by the Heco Envelope. Company., HOMEROXRICO

PEREZ,

a present employee of the Heco Envelope Company,

and who is believed to be related to RAMIREZ, is a

vociferous supporter of Cuban Prime Minister FIDEL

Records reflect that Rico was born 3030273

has social security Number 262-50-5897, and resides

at 1937 North Kilbourn Avenue • CHiE Me is b

The Heco Envelope Company does not appear on the

key facility list in the Chicago Division.

The Bureau is requested to check Bureau indices

on GERARDO JORGE RAMIREZ, FBI # 2029130, Valso the name

MORGADO RAMIREZ GERARDO), DIONISIO PEREZ ORTEGA, anc

HOMERO RICO PEREZ:

Unless Bureau files contain information which

would make such an interview inadvisable,

the Bureau is

requested to authorize an immediate interview of RAMIREZ.

It is expected that such an

interview will develop

information regarding the following:

- 2 -

NW 54462 DooId: 32336768

Page 2

---

