# docid-32989477

## Page 1

File #:

40100-MP-17664

Serial Scope:

1-3A

51927

DocId: 32989477

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Routing Slip

1'ca. 0-7 (Rov. 12-17-73)

TO: SAC:

Albany

Albuquerque

Alexandria

Anchorage

Atlanta

Baltimore

Birmingham

Boston

Buffalo

Butte

Charlotte

Chicago

Cincinnati

Cleveland

Columbia

Dallas

Denver

Detroit.

El Paso

Honolulu

(Copies to

Houston

Indianapolis

Jack son

Jäcksonville

Kansas City

Knoxville

Las Vegas

Little Rock

Los Angeles

Louisville

Memphis

Miann

Milwaukee

Minneapolis

Mobile

Newark

New Haven

New Orleans

New York City

Norfolk

ices Checked)

7 Oklahoma City

- 1 Omaha

- Philadelphia

I Phoenix

1 Pittsbugh

i Porti and

1 Richmond

Sacramento

St. Louis

Salt Lake City

San Antonio

San Diego

San Francisco

San Juan

Savannah

Seattle

Springfield

- amirion Field

TO LEGAT:

D Beirut

bonn

Brasilia

Buenos Aires

Caracas

Hong Kong

London

Madrid

Manila

1 Mexico City

Ottawn

Paris

Rome

Singapore

- Tel Aviv

Tokyo

Date

11/21/75

RE: SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE

ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

Retention

For appropriate

[j For information an optional

= action

→ Surep, by

The enclosed is for your information. If used in a future report,

sources, ( paraphrase contents.

Enclosed are corrected pages from report of SA

dated

Remarks:

conceal all

Enclosed for your information is a copy of

an

article by Mr. William Safire entitled "Mr.

Church's Cover-Up" that appeared in the

November 20, 1975, issue of "The New York Times.'

EnG.

Bufile

Urfle

(1)

1H 54927

DocId:32989477

100-17664-34

SEARCHED..

LA TINDEXED

SERIALIZED.

ISFILED-

509

NOVOT

5 19/5

FBI - MINNEAPOLIS.

Page 2

---

## Page 3

179-10255

• 54927

DocId: 32989477

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Mr. Church's

By William Satire

WASHINGON, Nov. 19--On Oct. 10, •

1963, the then-Attorney General of the

United States put his personal signa-

ture on a document that launched and

Ingitimatized one of the most horren-

dous abuses of Federal police power in

this century.

In Senator Frank Church's subcom-

mittee hearing room this week,

authorized

wiretapping and

the

subse-

quent unauthorized bugging and at-

tempted blackmailing of Martin Luther

King Jr. is being gingerly examined,

with the "investigation" conducted in

such

a way

as not to unduly

em-

barrass officials of the Kennedy or

^ 11

Cover-Up

•The committee is not asking embar-

rassing questions even when answers

are readily

available. A couple

of

weeks ago, at an oper hearing, an

F.B.I.

man inadvertently started

to

blurt out an episode about newsmen

who were weritapping in 1962 with

the apparent knowledge of Attornes

General Kennedy. The too-willing wit

lesse, and told that sues intormation

would be developed only in executive

session. Nobody raised an eyebrow.

That pattern of containment by the

Church committee is vividly shown by

the handling of the buggings at the

1964 Republican and Democratic con-

ESSAY

Johnson Administrations.

With great care, the committee has

focused on the F.B.I. Yesterday, when.

ventions which were ordered by Lyn-

the committee counsel first set forth

don Johnson. Such invasions of politi-

the result of shuffling through press

cal headquarters were worse than the

clips, it seemed as if no Justice De:

crime committed at Watergate, since

partment had existed in 1962; today,

they involved the use of the 'F.B.I.,

an F.B.I. witness pointed out that it

but the Church investigators seem to

was Robert Kennedy who authorized

be determineti not to probe too deeply.

the wiretap of Dr. King, and that "the

If F.B.I. documents say that reports

President of the United States and the

were made to specific Johnson aides,

Attorney General specifically discussed

why are

their concern of Communist influence

same opportunity to publicly tell their

with Dr. King."

story so avidly given the next Presi-

But the Church commiltee showed

dent's men? If Lyndon Johnson com-

no zest for getting further to the Ken-

mitted this impeachable high crime of

nedy root of this precedent to Water-

using the F.B.l. to spy on poltical

gate eavesdropping. If Senator Church

opponents, who can be brought for-*

were willing to let the chips fall where

ward to tell us all about it?

they may, he would call some knowl-

But that would cause

embarrass-

edgeable witnesses into the glare of

ment to

Democrats,

and

Senator

the camera lights and ask them some

Church wants to embarrass profes-

questions that have gone unasked for

sional employees of investigatory

thirteen years.

agencies only. A new sense of Con-

For example, he could call Nicholas

gressional decorum exists,

far from

Katzenbach,

Attorney General

Ken-

the sense of outrage expressed in the

nedy's deputy and successoi, and ask

Senate Watergate

committee's

hear-

what he knows of the Kennedy de-

ing room. When it is revealed that the

cision to wiretap Dr. King. Who at

nanagement of NBC News gave press

justice concurred in the recommenda-

credentials to L.B.J.'s spies at the 1964

tion? How does the F.B.I. know they

President was consulted or informed?

After Mr. Katzenbach assumed of-

Come rootly odine na nat.

fice, and the wiretapping continued,

decision under what pressure.

me was told by angry newsmen that

I have been haranguing

patient"

the F.B.I. was leaking scurrilous in-

formation about Dr. King. Why did ho

sait for-four months, and for a thou-

sand telephonic interceptions, to dis-

continue the officially approved tap?

Of course, this sort of testimony

would erode Senator Church's political

bast. That is why we do not see for-

mer Assistant F.B.I. direcior Carlha

(Deke) Deloach,

Lyndon Johnson's

perconal contace with the F.B.I. in the

¿viness chair.

Whal did President

Johnson know about the character

assassination plot and when did he

knew

it'

What conversations took

jace b'tweon Mr. Deloach and Presi-

son, Johnson on the tapping of Di.

king, or about the use of the F.B.I. in

any other intrusions into the lives of

iv 54929uDocId: 32989177

standard applied to Democratic

Republican politica! crimes,

and had

hoped the day would come when the 100-176064

hardball precedents set by the Ken

nedy and Johnson hen would be laid SERIAliFILED

before the public in damning detail.

Obviously, Democrat Frank Church

NOV 2 5 1975

is not the man to do it. His jowl

shaking indignation is all too

FBI - MINNEAPOLIS

tive: the trail of trign-level resconsi

bility for the crimes commitied agains

Dr. King and others is evidently going

to be allowed in cool.

Pity. You'd think that after all the

nation has been trougi in the past

few years, our political leuders would

have icarned that the one thing that

brings you down is the set of cover-

Patfe "1

(inft.al)

_#9

_Mite Super _i

__OS:1

- SONS -

-3

THE NEW YORK TIMES

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 1975

PAGE C-41

---

## Page 5

FD-36 (Rev. 5-22-64)

Transmit the following in

Via _

TELETYPE

FBI

Date:

MARCH 25, 1975

CODED

(Type in plaintext or code)

NITEL

(Priority)

00'

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, MINNEAPOLIS (100-NEV)

ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

RE BUTEL TO ALL SAC'S, MARCH 24, 1975.

MINNEAPOLIS HAS ONE SUPERVISOR WHO SPENDS 50 PER CENT OF HIS

TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND 50 PER CENT OF HIS TIME ON

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. A SECOND SUPERVISOR SPENDS 40 PER CENT OF

FIVE AND ONE HALF

IS TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY. THERE ARE AGENTS WORKING

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND 14 WORKING INTERNAL SECURITY.

END.

MINNEAPOLIS

ERS: 23,

(1)

Searched

Serialized

Indexed.

Fized..

100--

2664-2

RUC

HH 54927

Approved:

DATINE

Special Agent in (

sent 1:13 Pm

Per .

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1969 0 - 346-090 (11)

DooId: 32989477

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NROMI MP CODED

7:13 PM NITEL

MARCH 25, 1975

DSC

TO : DIRECTOR - PAW

FROM MINNEAPOLIS (100-NEW)

ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION

SENATE. SELECI COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACIIVITIES.

RE BUTEL TO ALL SAC'S, MARCH 24, 1975.

MINNEAPOLIS HAS ONE SUPERVISOR WHO SPENDS 5M PER CENT OF HIS

TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY AND 5M PER CENT OF HIS TIME ON

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. A SECOND SUPERVISOR SPENDS 4M PER CENT OF HIS

TIME ON INTERNAL SECURITY. THERE ARE FIVE AND ONE HALF AGENTS

WORKING COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND 14 WORKING INTERNAL SECURITY.

END

HOLD

Searched.

Serialized

Indexed...

Filed.

HH 54927

DocId: 32989477

Page 6

---

## Page 7

NRO46 WA CODE

9:48PM NITEL 3-24-75 DEB

TO ALL SACS

FROM DIRECTOR

SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SENATOR FRANK CHURCH, CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE SELECT

COMMITTEE TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS WITH RESPECT TO

INTELLIGENCE

ACIIVITIES HAS MADE AN INITIAL REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

FROM THE FBI. AMONG THE ITEMS REQUESTED IS A BREAKDOWN OF

1662157

FIELD AGENT PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND

108146511

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MAITERS•

ACCORDINGLY, WITHIN FOUR EIGHT HOURS EACH SAC SHOULD SUTEL

TO FBIHQ, ATTENTION: BUDGET AND ACCOUNTING SECTION, SETTING FORTH

SEPARAIELY THE NUMBER OF SACS, ASACS, SUPERVISORS AND AGENIS ASSIGNED

TO INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE MATTERS. PERCENTAGES

OF AN AGENT'S TIME, WHEN NOI ASSIGNED FULL-TIME TO THESE ACTIVITIES,

SHOULD BE USED IF APPROPRIATE, PARIICULARLY IN THE SUPERVISORY

CATEGORIES. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE BROKEN DOWN SEPARATELY

BETWEEN INTERNAL SECURITY AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. YOUR RESPONSE SHOULD

BE LIMITED TO AGENT PERSONNEL ONLY.

END

Ils

32575

17664-1

100

SEARCHED

SERIALIZEG

FILED 1202

FEl-MINNEAT ULIS

Strauma E8

HH

54927

DocId:32989477

Page 7

---

