# docid-32316537

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/25/201

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-10348-10066

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 9-60052-806

Released under the John

*. Kennedy

Assassination Recordi

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45927 Date:

12-11-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DE

TO :

HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/22/1975

PAGES: 516

SUBJECTS :

ANTHONY PROVENZANO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 4; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF INTERPOL

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGES 5-11, PART #1 PAGES A-248, PART #2 PAGES 249-503,

INC ADMIN PAGE, REFERRED TO INTERPOL

y9.1

14 45927

DooId: 32316537

Page

---

## Page 2

DE 79-359

allegedly involved in a New

Jersey

murder about 10 years ago;

DANNY RUBINO and JOSEPH CHAIMPI, New

Jersey,

associates of PROVENZANO;

FRANK DI PUMA, an individual

allegedly

involved in organized crime in the

Chicago area who supposedly attended a

meeting in July in Detroit concerning

HOFFA's disappearance.

Among the theories offered by New York sources was

that HOFFA was done away with due to a coal mine deal he

was involved in.

Allegedly, HOFFA was to assist in the

financing, but allegedly rejected the deal because he thought

New York sources also offered the opinion that

FITZSIMMONS is now actually owned "lock, stock and barrel"

by organized crime figures.

Philadelphia Division

A former Philadelphia source and currently an

Indianapolis source advised that he was approached by one

LARRY YOUNG about four to six weeks prior to HOFFA's dis-

appearance and offered a contract of $50,000.00 to kill

The informant passed it off, subsequently came to

Detroit in mid August, 1975, at which time YOUNG made a state-

ment that he (informant) could have made a quick #50,000.00.

Source, later the same day, overheard a conversation between

one DON WELLs and YOUNG, apparently without the two knowing

of source's presence, and WELLS stated "They could never

as a white male, 45 years of age, 5'8"

brown hair.

YOUNG is a white male, 35 years of age,

5'10", 210 pounds, stocky build. Source furnished the 1o-

the DIL Warehouse at 2411 Vinewood, Detroit.

TOM (INU) also

was identified as the owner of Imperial Steel in Detroit.

Pittsburgh Division

A Pittsburgh source advised that ICN member JOHN

FONTANA, Close associate of SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA, ICN

_H -

COVER PAGE

HH 45927: DocId: 32316537 Page 2

---

## Page 3

4.

EARNEST L. MC DONALD

5

JUDITH LEE STRICKLAND

6

MARY RYDEL

7. ROBERT T. MARQUART

8. ISAAC LEE MADDEN .

9. MARTIN WOEHL

10. HOWARD W. MORDUE

11.

EDWARD P.

STEAFANI

12. ARTHUR WEBER

13. Mrs. WILLIAM T. KELLEY

GRADY INZER.

15.

ROBIN WUEST®

17. SYLVIA THRONEBERRY

18.

DARLENE CLARK.

19. EARL THRONEBERRY •

20. JAMES SMYTHE

21.

ROCCO VICTOR PASSANANTE.

22. ROBERT SNOWDEN

23.

GFRALD ANTHONY VAN HOORELBEKE.

24.

PAULINE APPLEBY.

25. PEGGY WEAVER

26.

DENNIS HUNTER.

27. BOB FABRY

28. DANIEL HUGHES.

29.

"IKASAKI" HOTEL.

30.

SAMUEL KONIAK.

31.

STEPHEN G.

WILKERSON

32. GEORGE HARRISON FLYNN.

33. DOMINIC GIORDANO

11

HH 45927

DooId:32316537

Page 3

Page

450

459

460

463

464

465

466

468

469

471

475

476

478

482

483

484

486

487

488

491

492

494

495

496

499

500

501

502

503

---

## Page 4

N.

MISCELLANEOUS

LIBUTENANT DOUGLAS GILL

2.

3,

MAVIS BROWN

MARLENE

REINHARDT

BARNEST

L. MC DONAID

5

JUDITH LEE STRICKLAND

6.

MARY RYDEL

7.

ROBERT T. MARQUARI

8.

ISAAC LEE MADDEN

9.

MARTIN WOEHL

10. HOWARD W. MORDUE

11. EDWARD P. STRAFANI

12• ARTHUR WEBER

13. MRS, WILLIAM I. KOLLEY

14. GRADY INZER

150

ROBIN WUEST

15. RUTH HAMMONDS

17• SYLVIA

PHRONEBERRY.

1.8 °

DARLENE CLARK

19. EARI THRONEBERRY

20. JAMES SMYTHE

21.

ROCCO VICTOR PASSANANTE

22.

ROBERT SNOWDEN

23.

GERALD ANTHONY VAN HOORELBEKE

24.

PAULINE APPLEBY

25. PEGGY WEAVER

26.

DENNIS HUNTER

27€ BOB FABRY

28.

DAWIEL HUGHES

29.

"IKASAKI" HOTEL

30. SAMUEL KONIAK

31• STEPHEN G. WILKERSON

32. GEORGE HARRISON FLYNN

33.

DOMINIC GIORDANO

135

HH 45927

DocId:32316537 Page 1

---

## Page 5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

POSTPONRAENT INFORHATION SHEET (JFK MATERIALS)

_Page (s) withheld entirely at this location in the file.

One of more of the following statements, where indicated,

explain this deletion (these

deletions).

[]

{]

Deletions were made pursuant to the postponement

rationale indicated below with no segregable material

available

for disclosure.

All references relate to

Section 6

of the "President John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992."

[]

Subsection 1A (intelligence agent's identity)

[ ]

Subsection 1B (intelligence source or method)

()

Subsection 1C (other matter relating to military

defense, intelligence operations or

the conduct of foreign relations).

[ ]

Subsection 2

(living person who provided

confidential information)

[]

Subsection 3

(unwarranted invasion of privacy)

• []

subsection 4

(cooperating individual or foreign

government, currently requiring

protection)

subsection

5

(security or protective procedure,

currently or expected to be utilized)

Information pertained to a matter unrelated to the JFK

For your information:

The following number is to be used for reference

regarding

this page

(these pages) :

9-40052-506 p. 499

xxxxxxXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

XXXXXXXXXX

xxxxxxxxXX

HH 45927

DooId: 32316537

Page 5

---

## Page 6

NATIONAL POLICE AGENCY

%, 2-Chome, Kasumigaseki

Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100

Japan

INTERPOL

NATIONAL CENTRAL BUREAU

Telegraphic Address:

"INTERPOLJAPAN TOKYO"

"J-NCB/572/75"

Mr. Harold L. Child, Jr.

Legal Attache

American Imbassy •

Tokyo 107

TOKYO, September 1, 1975

COPY

Re: James

R.

"Jimmy" HOFFA

Dear Sir:

In reply to your letter of inquiry No. 7-11 of 8/28/1975

concerning subject matter, we are sending you the following findings

we have established so far in connection with this matter:

1. Under our request, Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department (TMPD)

checked out the lists of hotels in Tokyo joining the Tokyo Hotel

association.

There are about 2,300. hotels in Tokyo, however,- there

were no hotels in the name of "IKASAKI" Hotel in Tokyo.

The TMPD further checked those hotels in Tokyo having similar

names to IKASAKI where foreign tourists have often stayed.

They cane up with the information from Akasaka Tokyu Hotel that

a male who was born in Arizona USA., whose age was placed somewhere

hotel without any prior reservation

from August 18 to August 21, this year.

However there were no entries on his hotel card concerning his

passport and other matters.

2. We also checked hotels in Kyoto, in particular, OKAZAKI Hotel

there, however no relevant information came up so

far.

Judging from the above findings, we cannot locate any hotel in Tokyo.

in the name of "Hotel IKASAKI".

We trust that the above findings will be of some assistance to you.

Yours very sincerely

ORIGINAL SIGNED

(JINYO KANEKO)

•Director

International Criminal Affairs Division

Criminal Investigation Bureau

National Police Agency

499

HH 15927 DogtS32714537 Page 6

---

