# docid-32183321

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10238-10031

RECORD SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-6868

Released under the John

' Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

10-04-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NO

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/30/1967

PAGES:

124

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 62-109060-5374

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

10/29/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54462 DocId: 32183321

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (ReY. 5-22-64)

FBI

Date: 5/30/67

Transmit the following in .

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (89-69)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIG

:3N AND/OR,

RELEASE OF GIA ANFORIVIATION

9503 00/57 179 te)

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY;

DALLAS, TEXAS,

NOVEMBER 22, 1963

MISC. - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(00: DALLAS)

Re Bureau telephone calls to New Orleans, 5/29 and

5/30/67.

A review of the New Orleans files was conducted

concerning allegations made by District Attorney JAMES

GARRISON, Orleans Parish District Attorney, New Orleans,

Louisiana, and any reported statements made by his staff.

There is a possibility that other statements were made by

GARRISON or members of his staff on radio, television, or

to organizations, as well as statements to persons inside

and outside the state of Louisiana, of which this office

would bave no knowledge.

1

- Bureau (AM)

Dallas (89-43) (AM)

New Orleans

STS/jlc

(19)

ALL: INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 6 - 7- 93 BY 9803600/KSK

JFK

89-43-6868

SEARCHED

INDEXED.:

SERIALIZED

NiAY & 1 1UDI

Approved:

•Special Agent in Charge

NW 54462 DooId: 32183321 Page 2

Sent

- М Рег

---

## Page 3

NO 89-69/1rs

Source:

Date:

To Whom:

By Whom:

DEAN ANDREWS

April 6, 1967

New Orleans Office, FBI

DEAN ANDREWS

"DEAN ANDREWS advised that District Attorney JAMES

GARRISON wants him to identify CLAY SHAW as CLAY BERTRAND and

Cuban or Latin-type man

to ANDREWS' OffiCe with LEE HARVEY OSWALD."

Source:

Date:

To Whom:

By Whom:

NO 1378-C

April 13, 1967

New Orleans Office, FBI

VERNON BUNDY

"Source advised that several weeks ago he talked

with a fellow prisoner, VERNON BUNDY.

VERNON BUNDY, an

Orleans Parish prisoner, testified in District Attorney JAMES

GARRISON'S KENNEDY assassination probe that he, BUNDY, saw

CLAY L. SHAW pass money to someone on the New Orleans

lakefront.

BUNDY indicated to source he had been offered a deal by District

Attorney GARRISON if he would testify to a story about SHAW.

According to source, this conversation allegedly took place

several weeks ago in New Orleans Parish Prison prior to the

time BUNDY testified at the hearing in Criminal District Court.

anything to get out of his sentence.

his testimony was not true without

stating directly so, or

that a story had been given to him to tell."

Source:

Date:

To Whom:

By Whom:

JACK S. MARTIN

April 21, 1967

New Orleans Office, FBI

JACK S. MARTIN

HH

54462

DooId:32183321 Page 3

---

