# docid-32290244

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/18/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10020

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-263

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45679 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/14/1961

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

GAL, REL, RES, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45679

DocId: 32290244

Page 1

12

---

## Page 2

Mr. Tolson

BURLAD ON INVECTIGATION

S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUL 41961

TELE

PE

Mr. Belmont.

Mr.

Mohr

Mr.

Callahan

Mr.

Conrad

Mr.

DeLoach

Mr.

Evangi

Mr. Malone

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel-

Mr. Trotter_

Tele.

Room

VI.

Ingram

REVIEWED BY EVIA TASK FORCE

Miss Gandy-

URGENT 7-14-51

8-59

PM CLM

ON

7-14-98 cal

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

CI NELSAGE IN FLALL

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ 3P

DÃ RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL

GUS ALEX, AKA., AR, DAILY SUMMARY. PCI

Lair

JEK ACt 6 (4) ADVISED

THAT THE APARTMENT AT ELEVEN FIFTY LAKE SHORE DRIVE INITIALLY RENTED

BY SAM TAYLOR, BROTHER OF SUBJECT, IS USED NOW ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY

BY SUBJECT. HE SAID THAT HE VERY SELDOM

SEES MR. AND MRS. TAYLOR AT THE APARTMENT AND WHEN HE DOES, IT IS

USUALLY ON A WEEKEND. IN CONNECTION WITH SAM ALEX, BROTHER OF

SUBJECT, IT IS TO BE NOTED THAT INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE PAREN IRS

ENDPAREN

ÜEK Law 11(a)

INVESTIGATION CONCERN-

ING SAM ALEX HAS DISCLOSED THAT HE HAS A SMALL CHECKING

ACCOUNT AT THE FIRST COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK AT CASSOPOLIS,

MICH. ALL CHECKS WRITTEN ON THE ACCOUNT ARE FOR SMALL AMOUNTS.

HAS A SAFE DEPOSIT BOX AT THE BANK BUT NO ONE AT THE BANK HAS EVER

BEEN PERMITTED TO SEE ITS CONTENTS. SAM ALEX DOES NOT FARM THE PROPERTY

HE OWNS NEAR CASSOPOLIS AND THE ONLY ACTIVITY

CONNECTION WAS ABOUT TWO YEARS AGO WHEN HE WAS-OBSERVED PUTTIN

END PAGE ONE

88 J0112219571

cX.116

REC- 54

1 JUL 18 1961

NW 45679 DocId: 32290244

Page 2

---

