# docid-32336931

## Page 1

Released unter the John F. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/2/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90135-10326

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-136

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: LO

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/08/1961

3

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32336931 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy assassinat

cords Collection Act of 1992, (14 USC 2107 Hote).

vant

"SECRET

Septembar

8e 19011

(s)

1356157

ALL INEUR

IUC*3

BALS

AAZARE :

ELOY GUTIERRE? MENOVO

i aD

August

oferenge 1s made to your communion

your number 1659-(3-

24294750

boswas bori Décember 6.

told naturalized Cubon churaem

in rosided

in-spaintentti Thout 2015 wen herwent to cuba-de

began to actively oppose the Batisto governmentson about

1952 and in 1957 founded the Second National Ironu du

Deoambray, an anti-Batista organization which wag dorive

in the revolution which unseated Battate and Lecame its

In. August, 1959, anti-Castro elementoren one

Dominican Repubito made an abortive effort to invade Cuba.

At the time.

milliom Alexander Morgan, expatriated Anertoon

soldier of fortune who was executed by fastro, and the

subject publicly admitted pretending ta be members of the

anil-castro groups stoting they were detually playing roles

of double agents for Caspro. Inis resutted in the thuarting

of the andridastro efforte, subject hold the rank of major

in the cupon armed foroes. In Jonuary.

1951, the subject

and severan of his followers fled Cube, in a small boat

ana made their way to Miami, Florido.

Subject was held

for a time by Immigration authorities in Texas, but is

now in triant where he reportedly.is engaged in anti-Castro

•activities

With reference to the infornation set forth

the second paragraph of the referenced communication,

ir

16 ts noted that similar

the

press

in this country.

205÷82298-136

SQ4 SON MAC/GAT (JFL.)

Chissified by ABby's

L0nd07

Declassify on

*Foreign Liaison Unit

SEP - 8 1961

(9)

CLASSIFJED BY LOO

EXEMPT FROM GDS CA

2NP

00

GORY

2,3

MAIL. ROOM

DATE OF DECLASSIF/CATION INDEFINITE

CONFIENTAL SECRET

0121178510

UNRECOR

DocId: 32336931

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Beeords Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2817

SECRETI

we interulewed tenchiject upon his arrival

this country:

with referance: fo his arrest in Liege, Belgtun,

trio to nurope, a women who red ted hersel carthe wife

of Adderramon Muley come to harisane

osked him-to look up

cond of wiry ena sporare whom engaged in anti trance

necrolores in Europe. : Muley's wire

told him that Huley.

coule se reached in care of Arturo da Mata, Post Restanten

genoral, Liege, Belgiums Subject atated he went to Burope arriving

an Eddrid, spain, in July, 1960.

Then ho was about:

ready to leave he sent o telegram ta lace au the abowe

hormoned addrass. te stabed, he did no repte the womento.

one telegram, but was curtain me of

ructate he was

anton spain with rations for Malco

* arraval in

wey through the cupon Inbossy there duces unovargasful!

vie stated he sent lota o second telegram at the some addresse

received no resporises.

The Cuban Ambassador to Belgium

cher

personally drove him to Llege and the two of them

anages to locate Mate in a bar in the spanish colony

subjeot stated that ofter he met laia, the loiter

rodiced him to Muley. He admitted that the three of them

ushee Spain and its problems and that both Mata and

" cold him they were actively engaged in fighting Franco.

ruste stater that both luley and Mate were members of the

Boatorto Revolucionario Iberioo de Liberacion (DRIE)

e subjeco belleved that luley was one of the directors

(S)

Subject stated he remained in Ilege for about

I Colo visiting individuals uno resided in the Sponish

He was suddenly arrested, placed in jail

meatened with return to spain.

It was the subject is

that the Franco government put pressure on the

ambassy in Brussels to have the Brussels police

n and place him in jatl.

subject stated that

three days the Cuban Government lodged an

pralait us un Belgion authorities and arrangematsi

expel him from the country

• 20

(SECRET

DocId: 32336931

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassinatton Retords Colléction Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

SECRET C

TOR STOITS

1UC

ATIAL

subject stated that he went by plane from

Brussels to Paris, Tronce, and remained there for about

fifteen days during which time he lived at the home of

on employee at the Cubon Embossy. He stated that during

this time he visited the spanich president in exile uno

"lived in Paris.

He stated that when his vocation in Paris

was nearly completed he actempted to arrange for return

to cubarby way of united states, butreould not do so.

He finally obtained airline tickets for a return flight

by way of Lisbons Portugal, Santa Moria in the Azores

end from there to cuba. subject stated he opent six

aays in santa wario marting for the madrid Havane plane

unile there,

he stated thet Portuguese authorities examined

hin very closely.

In conmenting on his European trip, subject

stated the trip had no intelligence or espionage aspect

significance.

He stated that he made the

trip solely

to visit relatives in spain and to vacation for a few

days in Belgtun and tronce.

He emphatically dented going

to europe to carry out anti tranco activities or any

actiúlties connected with DRIL.

In addisions the subject

denled any connection whatsoever with the seizure of the

sente Maria" in January, 1961,

and nos stated he had

never heard of Galvao.

Ior your information,

the subiect, wpon interview,

described himself as being bitterly anticommuniste

CON

T05+7

DocId: 32336931

Page 4

---

