# docid-32327382

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

4/29/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90063-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE: [Restricted]

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/18/1969

3

ROGELIO CISNEROS DIAZ

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER; TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: LHM

v9.1

DocId: 32327382

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 W

USe 2107 Hote).

DATE :

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

In Keply, lease hele

File No.

105-14883

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SECRET

SECRET

Miami,

Florida

August 18, 1969

SY ON: 20X

10-8-9

Grassified

5P8 MACCA

Declassify ela:

DADE (JFK)

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BONET E(S)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On August 5, 1969, a Cuban refugee, who has

previously admitted his recruitment by the Cuban Intelli

sence Service (als urnished the following intormatione

on August 211969, the gource received

• telephone

During the call, ESPINOSAsinquired if

source had yet obtained a boat to travel tò

Juba to receive

training in intelligence matters. ESPINOSA told source

handle the

to Cuba as soon as possible.

hoped to be able to obtain a boat and

the trip to

Cuba by the weekend of August 91g1969

CubA

ESPINOSA asked the source

if head any

the present activities of TONe SAAVEDRA formation

Source told ESPINOSAPthat he does not believe

these two men are currently engaged

in any activities

against the FIDEL CASTRO regime

Source advised that "SHORTY" iS ROGELIODIAZ,

a Cuban mulatto exile, who lives in the Miami, Florida

Source said he believes DIAZ

employed by the

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) SU

ESPINOSA further inquired of source what movements

were being planned by the CIA in Miami. He told source

that he had heard no rumors

concerning any CIA plans and that hé could furnish him

no information in this regard

ALL. INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN LS UNCLASSIFIED' EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

ENCLOSURE

SECRET

505-116716-7876)

Itte

tomertic

DocId: 32327382

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1932 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

Re:

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BONET R

LESPINOSA inquired of source regarding

the plans

of VICENTE MENDEZSto make a raid against Cuba..

engaged in formulating plans

for some type of raid against

trip have not been chosen yet.

told ESPINosA that according to the present plan the rald

will probably not be carried out until about the end of

1969 or the first part of 1970. ESPINOSA asked the

source where these men were training for

this raid and source

told him he had heard rumors they were training on a

advised he has no real knowledge of

plans by enDarand has heard nothing concerning training

on a farm near Lake Okeechobee, but that he fabricated

this information and furnished it to ESPINOSAin order

to satisfy his inquiries.

(8)

ESPINOSA inquired af sourse whether he hag

obtained

to ESPINOsA his cousin is allegedly a captain in the

name of the cousin of RAFAEL HERRYMANS) According

United States Army serving in Vietnam.Source reported

to ESPINOSA that he believes the individual's name is

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

- 2% -

SECRET

DocId: 32327382

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1397(41 USC, 2107 Hote).

DATE 5 23714 2017.29-61

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Miami, Florida

. SEGRET

August 18, 1969

In Reply Glease Rejer to

Po No 105-14883 (5)

Title

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BONEY A

Character INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference

Letterhead Memorandum, dated and

captioned as above, at Miami.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communication have furnished reliable

information in the past.

SECRET

This document contains neither recommendations or conclusions of the FBI.

It is the property

of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

your agenty.

DocId: 32327382

Page 4

---

