# docid-32327609

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/9/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90064-10180

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

87-15374-140

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

LA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 10/28/1953

PAGES:

17

SUBJECTS :

VICTOR EMANUEL PEREIRA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327609

Page 1

36

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Mote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

C

7

7

-

-11h0

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

HIS CASE OSAORIMATIO A

EL PASO

MIPORT MADE AT

MAHADE

WHEN

878903

LOS ANGELES

10/28/53

VICTOR EMANUEL-PERBIRA,

HaS.; EUGENE H, BRADING,

WaB.; GERTRUDE J. JOYCE -

VICTIM

PONT MAON !

331;

JEROME WRIGHT

CHARACTER ON CATE

INTERSIATE

10,12/53 TRANSPORIATICH OP STOLEN

PROPERTY, HAIL FRAUD,

CONSPIRACY:

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Through efforts I-l subject BRADING located Vancouver, British

columbia.

T-2 advised PERBIRA reserved suite at Conrad Hilton

Hotel,

Chicago, 8/21 to 8/24/53.

Royal Canadian Mounted Police

advised Seattle

subject BRADING arrested by Canadian

Immigra-

on or about 8/19/53. RCMP

bun and bradstreet, Los Angeles, advised American Vending

Machine Assoclation, Los Angeles, operated by CLARENCE V.

ROADES that GERALD D. ALLEN formerly connected with Brade Enter-

prizes, Los Angeles,

and that Dundee Limited, Los Angeles,

operated by subject

PEREIRA 18 member of Amerioan Vending

Machine Association.

Background ROADES and ALLEN set out.

I-I advised ARTHUR

LEWIS CLARK, Sr., I1ving 1n Beverly Wilshire

Hotel, Los Angeles.

T-I advised CLARK and PEREIRA Mould leave:

for Denver and Chicago to attend Vending Machine Convention.

CLARK and PERBIRA observed leaving International Airport, Los lo

arrived

Angeles, for Denver date, departed Chicago 8/21/53.

Denver advised CLARK and PEREIRA

Denver sanc

date,

Denver

advised ERNIE B. WOODARD, Kansas City gambler, accompanied by

T-3 left Denver for Chicago 8/22/53.

advised CLARK

and PERKIRA arrived Chicago 8/22/53. T-1 advised CLARK and

PEREIRA returned 109-Angeles 8/24/53.

T-2 advised PEREIRA

received $1,989 from C.

SMALDONS,

-Colorado, 9/26/53.-

T-1 advised BRADING arrived Loa Angeles 8/28/53 and that PERSTAA

noved to Bel Air District,

Los Angeles.

T-1 advised CLARK JU°S

Los Angeles for Denver 9/9/53 and unable to Identify CLARK'!

female companion in Denver, Colorado..

I-4 advised would report

AMPROVED AMD

FORWARDED

PECIAL AGEN

* CHARGI

COPLES OF THIS REPORT

DO HOT TATTE, IN THESE SPACES

I7-1/5324-140

RECORDED-67

2 1909-6

NOV

See page 2

1103

COPY IN FILE

SIDE FOR

Tian.

PROPERTY OF FBI-This confiden aP?

distributed outside of agency

"report and its contes le

the fb

A b5.374 - 1

and are not to be

40

• a sorro

DocId: 32327609 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

LA 87-2584

Synopsis (Cont.)

identification record of ALLEN and ROADES set out.

LOs Angeles Police Department and Los Angeles Sher1fI'g 0If100

On MARTIN TELLER.

-P .

DETAILS:

At Los Angeles, California:

I-1, of known rellability, advised she attended a

wedding anniversary party given by

his wife at their apartment,

442 south Roxbury

Hills, California, on the night of August 7,

our no lot, vie thoro.

1953.

I-l heard Mrs. PERRIRA remark to a guest that

"Tina had sent

her some lovely floners.

ARTHUR L. CLARK, JR., then advised

T-1 that JIM (subject BRADING) was

somewhere in Canada about

to make a touch and that PERBIRA Mas leaving Los Angeles 1n

about ten days possibly to meet BRADING and conclude a con-

f1dence scheme on an uninown victim.

I-1 later furnished an envelope which came with the

aforementioned flowers and bore the name

"Darling's Plorist

Shop, Los Angeles, California."

Copies of this report to:

• - Pureau(81-75374

=51 Paso (87-1512

(1 - USA

B1 Paso)

] = Chee o the tnP0,

- Miam1 (Info)

1

1

- Dallas (87-1897) (Into

- Nev York (Into

2

- Seattle

2 - Los Angeles (87-2584)

87-15374-140

DocId: 32327609 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

U

IA 87-2584

{loners

were requested to be sent by western union Telesran

and exhibited the following described telegram:

Vancouver,

British Columbia,

dated August l,

1953, 12:04 p.n., adressed

to Mr. and Mrs.

VIC PEREIRA and bore the following medsage

"Congratulations and many more happy years," signed

"JIM.

BROWN stated the flowers were

sent from Blliott's

Ploner Shop, 937 Nest Georgla Street, te' ephone Tatlon 2020,

Vancouver, British Columbla.

of known rellability, advised that PERBIRA had

reserved a suite in

the Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, Ill1no1s,

from August 21 to August 24, 1953.

T-1 advised that CLARK,

stated BRADING was 10

1a1l In Canada but would be out in a

nE few days and would retur

to Los Angeles.

on August 19, 1953, Seattle advised that Sergeant

IC DONALD, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Vancouver, British,

Columbia, Canada, telephonically advised that subject BRADING

was now in custody of the Canadian Immigration and Naturalization

Service since he was in Canada Illegally; that BRADING had been

keeping company with another man who might possibly be subject

PEREIRA but who is suffering from arthritis in the neck and

shoulders and it was not possible to make a positive identifica-

tion of him even with the photographs.

According to Sergeant MC DONALD, BRADING states that

he was in Victorla, Britieh Columbia, on about July 29 and 30,

1953, fron there he ment to Qualicum Beach, located on Vancouver

Island, staying at the Qualieum Beach Hotel for a soupia-o? dage.

BRADING states he then moved to the

Batle Crest Lodge, which 1s

an exclusive lodge, where he met another American,

GERALD 1.

who was there with his wife

and three year

old child.

GERALD D. ALLEN, then left, according to BRADING, returning to the

United States, while he himself came to Vancouver stopping at the

He was at the Hotel Vancouver from August 3

the hotel,

they having apparently returned to Vancouver from the

United States.

BRADING

checked out of the Vancouver Hotel on August

7,1953,

and went

to the rather exclusive Jasper Park Resort,

staying

at the Jasper Park Lodge, and he was apparently at Jasper

387-15374-1401

Docta: 32327609 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CC

7

Г

LA 87-2584

Park Lodge fron about. August 8th until about two or three days

before August 19th.

He states that he became friendly with the :

ALIENs and that the ALLiNg: reservations at the Hotel vancouver

had been arranged for by a Mr.

MC LRAN, a prominent Vancu ver

businessman and automobile dealer.

The ALLiNs

had also. gone

to jasper Park and had also returned to the Hotel Vancouver.

Sergeant MC DONALD states that when inquiry was made

by the vancouver Police Department at the

jancouver Hotel,

the

management advised that the name BRADING was familiar to them

and that he had bhecked out on August 1, 1953, but had been

very friendly with the ALLeNs who were

located on the seventh

8100r.

In checking with 1

Mr. MC IRAN he stated he did not non

too much about BRADINg but that he was a friendly sort of 1nd1-

vidual who liked to play golf, spent money freely and usually

BRADING waB back in

ploked up the check ancouver and was in the ALLENa' suite

It was then learned from Mr. MC LBAN that

which 1s where the police found him.

BRADING explained that

upon his return to Vancouver he had found no accomodations and

1n

mentioning

It to the AlliNs they had suggested that he stay

with them in their sulte.

After BRADING was taken into custody the ALIENs packed

up

and stated that they

They furnished an address of 250 South Beverly Hills Drive,

Beverly Hills, California; however,

to correspond with ALLEN at this address and the letter had been

returned to him undelivered.

22331

the United States.

MC LEAN atates he had occasion

He is believed by

Upon the second Interview MC LEAN admitted that 1r. &

poker game with BRADING and ALLEN he had lost $700 which he had

paid and that in a dice game he had lost $8,000; however, he has

not made a settlement on

the $8,000 loss inasmuch as he was fixing

to give them $10,000 in stock which they could negotiate and

return him the balance due.

Since the detention of BRADING, and

it having come to MC LIAN's attention regarding the fact that

BRADING has been convicted on a confidence scheme, and the fact

that his assoclate ALLEN may be of similar caliber, Sergeant

MC DONALD indicated that there may not be a settlement on the

$8,000 1089.

87-15374-14091

DocId: 32327609 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CC

7

IcA 87-2584

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police described ATTEN as

being 42 years of age, about 5'9" but starod at 18 bard to tezihis

xact helght because he is sonewhat slouched over due to the

arthritis.in his aboulders and neck.

He welght: 170 pounds, hass

a fresh, reddish complexion, brown hair," dark, parted on the left

side, and wears dark green sunglasses. He enjoys golf. He states

he has not been working lately since: he hag: been troubles with

The oman accompanying him 1s allege'ly his second

wife, who

arthrit1s 1o very blond, wears her hair tight, straight back,?

18 attractive, about 32 or 33 years old, with a snall girl.

also blonde, three years old.

BRADING had only sixty cents in hig possesaion when.

he was detained.

He tried to put in a call'to a man he said was

PERBIRA 1n LOs Angeles, requesting PBREIRA to send him $100.

He gave PBRETRA'8 address as 8255 Beverly Boulevard, Dundee,

Ltd., telephone Webster 35574.

He telephoned this mimber but.

got

He then stated that PEREIRA Mas probably out to

lunch and he

no answer:idd to call him collect at the Tail of the Cock

or Tall of the Cat Restaurant; honever, the cafe would not accept

the call, and when advised that the customer, Mr. PEREIRA WOuld

accept

the charges, they determined that there was no PERBIRA

there.

Sergeant MC DONALD did not know just when BRADING

would be returned to the United States.

According to Sergeant MC DONALD, the ALLENa left

Vancouver

about 3:00 p.m. lon the afternoon of. August 18, 1953.

The State

oi california, Departeont of Motor Vehioles,

Los Angeles,

advised that California license 1W44371:18 11steu

co a 1953 Cádillac sedan, motor number 537503946 and 1s

registered to Brade Enterprises, Inc., 250 South Beverly Drive,

Beverly H1lls, California.

ROBERT R. RAYCB, Dun and Bradstreet, Los Angeles,

advised that

CLARENCE V. ROADES operates: the

American Vending

Machine Association which is made up of the following seven

1

National Distributing Company, Kansas City, Missour1;

National Industries,

Denver,

colorado;

Brade Enterprises, 250 South Beverly Drive, Beverly

Hills, California;

4) Rocky Mountain Interprises, Denver, Colorado;

87-15374-1401

DocTd: 323296094: Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

Lat 87-2584

5) Interstate

Manufacturing and Processing Company,

Los Angeles, Califorala;

RAYCE said that GERALD D. ALLEN WAS fOrMerly 8880-

clated with ROADES in the Brade Interprises Company but accord-

ing to his Information had left Los Angeles.

RAYCE stated that

ROADES oned ninoty per cent of the stook in these companies

and that these companies distributed vending machines which

dispensed cosmetics for men and assorted candies.

RAYCE advised that ROADES has now noved into the

office occupied by Leet,

CORLEY who operates this company.

RAYCE advised that ROADES 18 in a poor finanolal

at present and that his bank account is in a lou four

figure.

and ROADES:

RAYCE furnished the followin description of ALLEN

Name

Race

+ ==

OBRALD D. ALLEN

White

55 years

weight

Peculiarities

He is a semi-hunchback due

to arthritis; 1s contimually

claiming to be in pain.

Name

Race

Age

Height

Weight

Hair

CLARENCE V. ROADES

Pio oare

160 lbs.

Dark brown.

The files of the Los Angeles Police Department and Lot

Angeles Sherif!'s Office reflected no record of ALLEN or ROADES.

87-15374-140

DocId: 32327609 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

=7

IA 87-2584

The files of the Los Angeles Retall Merchants Credit

Assoclation were checked by SE B. PRANK CROSS and reflected

no record of GERALD D. ALiEN.

The files of the Los Angeles Retall Merchants Credit

Assoclation as checked by SR B. PRANK CROSS reflected the

following information concerning ROADES.

Address given as 723 North Linden DrIve, Beverly

H1lls, California; former addresses 10744 Chalon Road, Bel Als,

California; 252 West 52nd Street, Kansas Clty, Missour1.

Inployer shown as Brade Enterprises, 250 South Beverly Drive,

Beverly H1lls, California; states that he 18 president of

National Distributing Company, Kansas City, Missouri (vending

machine coupany).

Wife's name

given as ZORA ROADES; shous

wife and six children dependents.

Denver advised that GERALD D. ALLEN for several years

up to the summer of 1952 was known as

a professional gambler

and close associate

of the gambling element in Kansas City,

Missour1, and Denver, Colorado.

T-I advised that ARTHUR L. CLARK,

SR.,

was presently

staying at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel, Room 535, Beverly Hills,

California.

T-I advised that PEREIRA and CLARK, ST., were learIng

for Denver and Chicago

in the next few days and would attend a

vending machine convention in Chicago.

m-l stated they were

astually attending this convention in Chicago to gamble with

suckers.

PEREIRA and CLARK, SI..

vere observed by the uriter

to leave the Los Angeles International Alrport on United Airline

Th1s flight nas due

Denver advised that PEREIRA and CLARK, ST., arrived

Denver at 3:30 p..,

1953, and that they

tions on United Airline Plight

August 20 48 1, ving Denver at 7:00 a.n.,

had reserva-

August 21, 1953, to arrive Chicago 12:30 p.I. Bane date.

Denver

also advised that T-3,

of known rellability,

accompanied by

KRNIE B. WOODARD, with

al1a3

"BIG EARS" WOODARD, Kansas City

gambler, had reservations on same flight to arrive Chicago

787-15374-1408

Docid: 32327609 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

LiA 87-2584

August 22, 1953.

T-3 advised he had beard BRADING was in Canada

and that he would attept to ascertain from PiRaIRA the exact

location and nature of BRADING's activities.

1n the Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago,

August 22, 1953, and that while there CLARK received a collect

call from

POLLY

Denver, Colorado.

THOMPSON, telephone maber Plorida 5590,

I'-1 advised that PEREIRA and CLARK,

SI., returned

fron Chlaago to Los Angeles on August 24, 1953.

I-2, of knom rellability, advised that PEREIRA

received a $1,989 money order from C. SMALDONB, Denver, Colorado,

on August 26, 1953, with the following messare:

"Have CHICK

call BUQENE at OR 7936, 8:00 Denver time."

Denver advised

that Grand 7936 1s listed to the residence of BUGENE SMALDONE,

with allas CHECKERS SMALDONE,

3314 37th Avenue, Denver, Colorado,

and that he hao tale, one number longe a 3 or 0:

Denver, Colorado,

Denver further

advised that the SMALDONBs are well known Denver mobsters and

gamblers and that their headquarters are Gaetanos Restaurant,

3850 Tejon Street, Denver, Colorado, telephone number Glendale

T-l advised that the subject BRADING arTired 1n LOs

Angeles on August 28, 1953, 119htre Hotel, Toa inceles.

and was staying with ARTHUR LEWIS

CLARK, ST., at the Beverly

iris

.. *

latrict, deverly Hills, California, and that they had morer

Into this home at 1514 Bel Air Road

Beverly Hills, Cal1fomn1a,

on August 29, 1953.

(1514 Bel Air Road actually 18 located In

the city linits of

Los Angeles.)

moved to his

I-l advised that subject BRADING on September 2, 1953,

apartuent which

located at 9649 West Olyupic

Boulevard, Beverly Hills, California.

In a telephone conversation

subject BRADING advised I-l that CLARK, ST., left for Denver.on

September 9, 1953, and that CLARK, JI., Has in Texas.

T-I advised that she was unable to ascertain the identity

of the 38 year old blond woman who was a companion of ARTHUR

LEWIS CLARK In Denver, Colorado. I-l advised that CLARK, Jr.,

RE

87815374-140

L

an interin- in

DocId: 32327609 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

LA 87-2584

had returned to los Angeles and that he was now living with the

PERBIRAS at 1514 Bel, Air DrIve, Los Angeles, Calliornia.

Reeves DrIve, Beverly allla, Callfornia, on the night ol

September 22, 1953.

golf with

suckers at the varlous clubs in Beverly Hills, Call-

fornia.

On October 7, 1953, T-l advised that she had not

seen subject BRADINO for the past few days.

T.-4,

of unknow rellability, advised that she would

Inform the writer of any unusual activities of PERRIRA.

r-5, of known reliability,

contacts were

made

from August 10, 1953, to September 1, 1953:

Date

PrOm

8/10/53

Webster 35574

8/14/53

Webster 35574

TO

BRADING at Jasper,

Alberta, Canada

Chicago,

I111n018

Wabash 24400

set Just

8/17/53

Keystone 8516, D.

N. CARBY

Webster 35574

8/17/53

collect from Mr.

HANRAHAN, Denver,

Colorado, CH 6170

Webster 35574

8/18/53

ARtHUR CLARA, TaCOMa,

Washington, Broadha

2141 (Call placed PrOu

Bradshaw 23697 and

billed to Webster

33574.

Collect from Seattle Webster 35574

Washington, Logan

87-15374-1404

Docid: 32327609 Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under-the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992. (41 USC 2197 Hotel:

DATE: 11-14-2017

Let 87-2584

Date

8/18/53

8/19/52

8/20/53

8/20/53

8/21/53

8/24/53

8/25/53

8/26/53

8/26/53

8/26/53

8/28/53

8/31/53

9/15/53

9/15/53

From

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

webster 35574

Chicago, LD 1081,

Room 719

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

SHAYDONS, uL 5059.

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

Webster 35574

chicago,

1111n018.

Wabash 24400

Denver, Keystone

3516, D. M. CARE

Hians Beach 54546,

ALLEd SErLAND

Wabash 24400, Chloago,

I]117018

ARTHUR CLARK, Ma1n

2181, DenVer,

colorado

Webster 35574

Head of Police,

Vancouver, B.C.,

telephone 12

R. L. BAUMAN, R1verg1de

9097, Dallas, Texas

GL 9852, Denver

Webater 35574

and so

ARTHUR CLARK

Mian1 825411

GL, 6217

GL 9852, Denver

GL. 6217, Denver.

307-15374-140-9

L

DocId: 32327609 Page 11

---

## Page 12

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

Г

Г

It 87-2584

Crestvlew 52761 vere also listed at this address. T-S further

adrised that this company had two out of state telephones lat

namely Acoma T741, Denver, Colorado, and 9-968, Tulsa, Olla

the following 1s an identif1cat1o1

record Of CHRER

7. ROADS as set out under FBI number 3449918

Contributor of Name and

Arrasted

Pingerprints

Number

or Reed.

Charge

Disposition

PD, San Pran-

Clarence

4/24/43

enrt.

USM

018co, Calif.

Budd Rhodes

(STSA) -

#70868

Enrt Oakland,

Calls.

D, Oaklanc

Clarence B. 5/21/43

forgery &

6/7/43, pullt

• Rhoads

hold

by plea,

#41338

prob.

restitution

8536. 8925 pes

10.

Clarence

5/22/43

forgery

6/17/43 4.558.

Rhoads

prob.

#35448

Clarence

sheetmetal

Budd Rhoads

helper

#56-M0D

'ес.

so, parzand,

SOS

War Dept.

Dept.

so, bakland,

#109-HMW

Clarence

special

Budd Rhoads

deputy

#App.Spec1al 7/25/44

Dept.

def allowed

to withdran plea of G & pleads NO said into 18 dism by the

Crt and the defend rel fr all penalties and disabilities

resulting fr the crime of which he had been convioted.

187 - 15374-1407

L

DocId:32327609% Page 12

---

## Page 13

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

U

LA 87-2584

contributor of

pingerprints

PMO, War Dept.

DCGO, 12th Naval

Pran 1080, Calr.

PD, Denter,

colorado

Nase and

Arrested or

Number

Reed.

charge

D15p031t1on

Clarence Budd

TrUck

Rhoads

DElVeX

#109-SEP -13

11/74/44

Clarence Budd

1 dent card

Rhoads

1/37/45,

1012-1/12283102

Clarence Victor 7/27/52

DK. Dist. &

Resistance

Roedes

#764184

DESCRIPTION

Race

sex

Height

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Build

Complexion

Birth

Residence

Citizenship

Company

White

Male

5'10%"

196 lbs.

Brown

Brown

Stocky

Ruddy

6/27/17, Detroit, Michigan

Kansas Clty, Missouri, 1n 1952

Native born

Hurley Marine Works (as on prt

#109-SEP-13)

tatant banaran

Al las

in gie in me me are an

The following is an identification record of MERALD D.

ILLEN as set out under FBI number 442347.

Contributor of Name and

Arrested

Pingerprints

Number

or Recd.

No, Pargo,

Ednex D.

Allen

6/75/32

Charge

embezzle-

ment

#862

Sc, Pargo,

N.D.

E. D. Allen

6/28/32

D180081t10n

d181. and TOT

pD Mpls.,

Minn.

dism.

#209

embezzle-

ment

87-15384-140

L

DocId: 32327609 Page 13

---

## Page 14

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USe 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

LA 87-2584

contributor of Name and

Fingerprints

Humber

PD, M1nneapol18

Eoner D.

Minn.

Allen

724556-1-2-

AP, Pt. Smith,

SOS War

Dept.

S03, Har

Dept.

PD, Kansas

city, Mo.

SO, Kansas

city, Mo.

DESCRIPFION

Race

SeT

deight

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Complexion

Build

Birth

Residence

CItizenship

Company

Arrested

or Recd.

Charze

7/27/32 0.0.0.80.%.

DisposItIon

Gerald Aller

#101-(ML-]

Gerald Allen

#107 VBC

app)"cant

fOr

1081t10n

10/2/41

Prod. man

radio

9/18/42

purchas-

1ng Dept.

6/24/43

8/11/46 1nv. OL

Gerald D.

Allen

#56064

Gerald

8/12/46 GL

Dunbar Allen

#16087

9/3/46 d18ch

9/3/46 case

dism at rea

of comp vitress

White

Male

163 1b8.

Brown

Hazel

Pair

Medium

9/22/13, Salem, Il11no1a

315 E.

NO 1, in as city.

American

The Veredo Co. (as on prt

#107 VEC).

-1387-15374-1409

DocId: 32327609

Page 14

---

## Page 15

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) :

DATE: 11-14-2017:

7

L4 87-2584

the files of

MARTIN TELIER.

+6-7-15374-140

L

DocId: 32327609 Pade 15

initiess

---

## Page 16

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

7

• -719 3

LA 87-2584

ADMINIStRATIVE PAGE

following

Denver, Chicago,

Miant, Dallas and New York.

"A photostatic copy of the Los Angeles Retall Merchanta

Credit Assoclation report is being placed in the Irs Angeles

Photos of ALLEN and ROADES were obtained from the

Identification Bureau and are being placed in the Los Angeles

f1le.

It 18 noted that GERALD D. ALLEN 18 the subject of

Los Angeles file 87-803.

1-1 advised that CLARK, JI., stated the two attornes

"riends of his father that he had referred to previously were

(SYLVESTER 1s a law partner

New York City,

"New York.

In instant chole attorneys are representing BRADING and PERRIRA

JI., said that SYLVESTER was soon to

be

appointed a Pederal Judge

and that he was going to fix things

.80

PEREIRA and BRADING would never serve time.

I-l advised that CLARK,

ned an alice ca as create located at 8255

Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, on August 25, 1953.

T-1 advised

another conference held by CLARK,

PEREIRA and CHARLES SYLVESTER on August 29, 1953,

return to New

York city,

then proceed to El Paso,

Texas, where he would attempt

to distribute this money to

"the District Attorney" and other

officials who might have influence regarding PRADING and PERKIRA's

case.

CLARK, JI.,

also stated that SYLVESTER recelved a $35,000

fee from PEREIRA and BRADING.

I-l advised that she had dinner nith SELVESTER, BRADING,

Mr. and Mrs, PEREIRA and CLARK, JI., on the sighi of August 30,

87-15374-1407

DocId: 32327609 Page 16

---

