# docid-32288988

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/29/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10200-10264

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2713-486

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

COLLINS, PATRICK J. JR.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/26/1968

23

CM, INFT, LCN, ASSOC, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/09/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45855 DocId: 32288988

Page 1

9

---

## Page 2

NO 92-36

shopping center development in New Orleans, Louisiana

and how financed.

NEW ORLEANS

AT NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. 1. Will report on outstanindg

investigation being conducted in Field Divisions, other than New

Orleans®

2. Interview Mrs. GLADYS PIPER, Hotel - Motel

Association, New Orleans, Louisiana.

3. Locate and interview JOSEPH ALMERICO re his

alleged beating by MARCELLO.

4. Interview JOHN ALES re Air Charter International

and the Harvey Canal Seaplane Service.

5. Will recontact Detective JERRY WILLIAMSON-

re MARCELLO's control in Lafayette, Louisiana.

6. Will identify registrants of Louisiana license

36G464 and 61G111.

7. Will follow and report activities of the

subject.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-1

NO 1529-PC

NO T-2

NO. 1188-C

NO T-3

NO 1366-C

NO T-4

NO 1582-PC

CONTACTING AGENT

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA L.. M. SHEARER, JR.

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

B

(COVER PAGE)

NW 45855 DocId:32288988 Page 2

---

## Page 3

NO 92-36

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO T-5

NO 1435-C-TE

NO T-6

TOM MOORE,

Manager,-Town House

(By request)

NO T-7

NO 1457-C-TE

NO

T- 8

SF

2689-C-TE

NO T-9

CONTACTING AGENT

SA: JACK EVANS MEHL

OTHER 4

SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

- PCI

SA CHRISTOPHER MAZZELLA

NO T-10

NO 1521-C

NO T-11

NO 1458-PC

NO T-12

NO 1548-C-TE

NO T-13

NO 1600-PC

NO T-14

NO 1525-C

NO T15

NO 1416-C

NO T-16

SA RICHARD A. SMALLWOOD

SA PATRICK J. COLLINS, JR.

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA THOMAS E. DUHADWAY

SA WILLIAM P. GREAVES

- PCI

SA PATRICK C. CAHILL

NO T-17

Detective JERRY WILLIAMSON,

Intelligence Unit,

New Orleans Police Department

SA JOHN C. MC CURNIN

C

(COVER

PAGE)

NW 45855 DocId:32288988 Page 3

---

## Page 4

• NO 92-36

IDENTITY OF SOURCE

NO: T-18

NO 1626-C

NO T 19

SA

775-C-TE

NO T-20

CONTACTING AGENT

SA CHRISTOPHER MAZZELLA

OTHER

4

- PCI

SA DAVID A. BARCLAY

SA EUGENE TEREFENKO

NO T-21

- PCI

NO T-22

NO 1603-PC

NO T-23

TP 41-C-TE

SA WILLIAM F. KUSCH

SA THOMAS L. COLARELLI

SA JOHN AMBLER

ADMINISTRATIVE:

MARCELLO has been the subject of extensive news

media reporting in the past three months under his alleged

association with AUBREY YOUNG and other political figures

in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. None of this information from

the news media

matter has resolved itself into a political fight in Louisiana

as to who is and who is not controled by MARCELLO.

On January 25, 1968, NO 1232-C-TE provided

information relative to the fact that CARLOS MARCELLO waS

attempting to bribe EDWARD GRADY PARTIN in the amount of

$50,000 to change testimony he had previously given in a

U. S. District Court resulting in the confinement of JAMES

HOFFA, teamster unit official.

Informant advised that he

had recently talked to CYRIL PORETTO who told him that

JOSEPH PORETTO, close associate of MARCELLO, advised him

that he had observed the $50,000 in an attache case he

was carrying.

MARCELLO told JOSEPH PORETTO that this

$50,000 was for PARTIN.

JOSEPH PORETTO claims that he

strongly recommended that MARCELLO not involve himself

in the

HOFFA matter.

D

(COVER PAGE)

NW 45855 DocId: 32288988 Page 4

---

