# docid-32127956

## Page 1

8/29/2014

it'

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

(44 USC 2107 Note) .

сазе#:NW 53025 Date:

05-22-2017

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: FBI

RECORD

NUMBER

: 124-10031-10293

RECORDS

SERIES

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109060-5186

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM : SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE

:No Titlel

DATE: 05/03/1967

PAGES :

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JFK, SUSPECT, DEAN, HARRY

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 05/01/1997

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

1/1

---

## Page 2

TO

FROM

SUBJECT

OPTIONAL FORM NC:. 10

MAT TOOL BOITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES-&

ERNMENT

Memorandum

wides so 16248051 te

DIROCTOR, 881 (62-109 CONFM@ENTIAL

DATE: 5/3/67-

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

111/22/63

119S. & IXT BY

- ASON-FCIM

:, 1-2.4.2

DATE OF REVIER

- 513192

DALLAS, TEXAS

Re Bureau letter to Chicago, 4/17/67.

Office by Captain EDWARD GRABOVAC, Detective Bureau, Whiting,

Indiana Police Department on March 6, 1961.

to report that he had been elected Recording Secretary,

DEAN FIrst called the Chicago office in Augustinicago

Chapter, Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC).

He did

divulge his name and address at this time.

Later in the same

nonth he called this office, stating his name and advising

he

was residing at 1540 Central

Avenue, Whiting,

Indiana, and

that he owned his own business, the

Whiting Plastering

Company.

He told of his connections with

the FPCC, furnished

information concerning the leadership of this organization,

and said that he would be amenable to an interview with an

agent of the FBI.

The Indianapolis Office conducted an inquiry in

Whiting,

Indiana, in September, 1960.

Detective Captain

EDWARD GRABOVAC,

Whiting, Indiana, Police Departmen advised:

that DEAN, whose real

59

check charges.

GRABOVAC said DEAN was a self-employed plasterer.

The Whiting, Indiana Police Department procured an identification

record from

the Detroit, Michigan,

Police Department under FBI

#4657880.

This record revealed

that DEAN had been committed as

Lentani

a

mental

patient in Canada in 1948

and was sentenced at Chatam,

Ontario, for breaking and

entering

to "one year indefénite.

DEC

2'- Bureau

5180

{- chicago: 6/21/93

DWS : MMC

(3)

ENCLOSURE

X

XIAL

Y 1 5 1967

ANCISURE ATTACHI

APPROPRIATE AGEANCIES

AND FIELD

OFFICES

ADVISED

BOUTING

MAY

1967

DATE

Buy U.S. Savings

on the Basroll Savings Plan

5010 - 108

NH 53025

DooId: 32127956

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 62-6115

At this time DEAN had one arrest by the Detroit Police Department

for disturbing a religious

meeting and two arrests for using

indecent and obscene language. He was also AWOL fnom Fort

Knox, Kentucky, in 1949.

In December, 1960, DEAN again called this office to

report that he had been residing in Detroit for the past two

months.

At that time he said he was living in Chicago but he

refused to divulge his local address.

He continued to

telephonically contact this office on several occasions until

June, 1961.

He furnished information concerning Cuban nationals

connected with the 26th of July Movement and on local persons

connected with the FPCC.

with

He was last contacted by two agents of the Chicago

Office on June 7, 1961, at which time he was told that this

office did not desire his assistance.

Former CG 6403-S advised in August, 1960, that DEAN

was a white male, age about 25 (in 1960), stocky build, and

black hair.

While DEAN voluntarily furnished information to the

Chicago Office over a period of nearly a year, he was never

considered a PSI or informant by this office.

On December 7, 1960, HARRY DEAN telephonically contacted

this office.

He advised that

he had been in contact with a

ED SWABECK, 1716 St. Michaels, Chicago, Illinois, telephone

number Wh 4-6445. He stated that he had originally met SWABECK

in Cuba this past summer.

He said that SWABECk invited him to

a meeting in his home on

the evening of December 7, 1960 at

7 p.m.

DEAN stated that this is a meeting of a Fair Play For

Cuba Committee (FPCC) group and that he intended to attend.

He said that from the way SWABECK talked it is his belief that

this group is trying to out due other groups re the FPCC and

thus cause a split in the group. He also said that SWABECK

made mention of a letter that he received from TABER which

stated that EDDIE SHAW of Detroit had been movéd into a position

similar to that of a regional director of the FPFCC.

- 2 -

CONT XENTIAL

31-10503

NW 53025 DooId: 32127956 Page 3

---

## Page 4

CG 62-6115

On December 20, 1960 CG. 6403-s advised SA RAYMOND

E. MOONEY of a meeting of a group of persons interested in

forming a North Side Branch of the Chicago Chapter of the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee which meeting was held on

December 7, 1960 at the home of

HOWARD SWABECK, 1716 St.

Michaet's Street, Chicago.

This group decided that an organizational meeting

should be held on January 6, 1961, at the home of MIMI HARRIS.

BARNETT was

selected to be in charge of the program,

SWABECK was assigned the duty to have the announcements printed

by DICK CRILEY and mailed, and HARRY DEAN was to call ANGUS

SUMNER and JOHN ROSSEN. to obtain reading material that can

either be sold or passed out free of charge. Temporary

Branch Officers, i.e., Chairman, Secretary and Educational

Director are to

from new members.

be elected and MARCIA STARR will collect dues

During this meeting,

HARRY DEAN was overheard to

state that just before he left Whiting, Indiana, he had been

beaten, a rock had been thrown through

his window and he was

given a

"hard time" by the townspeople. He said that he

is presently a sheet metal worker in Chicago.

DEAN also

stated that he was in Cuba in June, 1960, and while en route

mets EDtSWABECK onmthe plane.

He and SWABECK were in Cuba

at the same time and were together in Cuba at least part of

the time.

DEAN-said his first contact with the Cubans was

when he donated money to the Cuban cause on two occasions when

they held parades on State Street in 1958.

At that time, he

mentioned that he was working for the Curtis Publishing

Company.

DEAN said he then went to the Cuban Consulate,

Chicago, and met Dr. FERRIER, a Consulate official. DEAN

expressed his sympathies toward the CASTRO revolution toAN

He said that Dr. FERRIER knew of and worked

with the 26th of July Movement in Chicago, and he also knew

of the formation of the FPCC. According to DEAN, DI. FERRIER

-4-

CON XIENTIAL

31-18983

NW 53025 DooId: 32127956 Page 4

---

## Page 5

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10031-10293

RECORD SERIES:

HO

AGENCY FILE_NUMBER:

62-109060-5186

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection

act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel •

Case#:NW 53025 Date: 05-22-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, CG

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 05/03/1967

PAGES: 5

SUBJECT: JFK, SUSPECT, DEAN, HARRY

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/01/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 53025 DocId:32127956 Page 5

---

## Page 6

FROM

ат ''. 41961.4,

MATED ST011

NEXT

Memorandum

DIKECTOR, FBI. (62-109060)

DATE: 5/3/67

vite rices 408-323601

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FIYZGERALD KLNNEDY

11/22/63

DALLAS,

'TEXAS

Re Bureau letter to Chicago, 4/17/67.

Enclosed herewith is one photogriph of HARRY DEAN

believed to be taken in 1960 and furnished to the Indianapolis

offico by Captain EDUARD GRASOVAC, Detective Bureau, Whiting,

Indiana Police Department on March 6, 1961.

DEAN first called the Chicago Office in August, 1960,

to report that he had been elected Recording Secretary, Chicago

Chapter, Fair Play for Cuba Comnittee (ГРСС).

He did

not

divulge

his name and address at this time.

Later in the same

month he called

this office,

stating his name and advising he

was icsiding at 1540 Central

Avenue, Whiting, Indiana, and

that he owned his own business, the

Whiting Plastering

Company •

He told di his connections with the FPCC, furnished

information concerning the leadership of this organization,

and said that he would be amenable to an interview with an

agent of the FBI.

The Indianapolis Office conducted an inquiry in

Whiting;

in Septenber, 1960.

Detective Captain

EDWARD GRADOVAC

Indiaur: niting, Indiand, Police. Department, advised

that DEAN, whose real name he believed to be GORDON HUNT and

who had used the name Gro.GE A.. ElkEl, had skipped town and

the Whiting Police Department had a varrant for his arrest on bad

check charce..

GRADOViC said Daid vas a self-enployed plasterer.

The

Thiting, Indiana Police Departnent procured an identification

record

IrOn

the Dotroit, Michigan,

Police Department under FBI

#4057980.

This

record rovealed

that DEAN had been committed as

a mental pationt in Canada in 191:

and was sentenced ai Chatan,

Ontario,

for breaking and entering

to "ond year indefinite.

62-107-060-51860

EC 56

2 - Bureau

1

- Chicago

DES: 120

(3)

INSTRE

MAY 8 1037

M-:.

This apeument is prepared in response to your request and is not for

nation

outside your Coinmitter.

Ms use is limited to official arorecrea

Be Loome are aper or not is discosed to unwvid piroue

nel without the tr

H# 53025 DooId: 32127956

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CG 62-6115

At this

time DEAN had one arrest by the Detroit Police Department

for disturbing a religious meeting and two arrests for using

indecent and obscene language. He was also AWOL from Fort

Knox, Kentucky, in

1949.

In December, 1960, DEAN agrin called this office to

report that he had been residing in Detroit for the past two

montns.

At that time he said he was living in Chicago but he

refused to divulge his local address.

He continued to

telephonically contact this office on several occasions until

June, 1961.

He furnished

information concerning Cuban nationals

connected with the 26th of July Movement and on local persons

connected with the FPCC.

He was last contacted by two agents of the Chicago

Office on June 7, 1961, at which time

he was told that this

office did not desire

his assistance.

Former CG 6403-S advised in August, 1960, that DEAN

was a white male, age about 25 (in 1960), stocky build, and

black hair.

While DEAN voluntarily furnished information to the

Chicago Office over a period of nearly a year, he was never

considered a PSI or informant by this office.

On December 7, 1960, HARRY DEAN telephonically contacted

this office.

He advised that he had been in contact with a

ED SWABECK, 1716 St. Michaels, Chicago,

Illinois,

telephone

number Wh 4-6445.

He stated

that he had originally met SWABECK

in Cuba this past summer.

He said that SWABICk invited him to

a meeting in

his home on

the evening of December 7, 1960 at

7 p.M. DEAN stated that this is a meeting of a Fair Play For

Cuba Committee (FPCC) group and that he intended to attend.

He said that from theway SWABECK talked it is his belief that

this group is trying to out due other groups re the FPCC and

a split

in the croup.

He also said that SwaBECK

mention of a letter that he received from TABER which

stated that EDDIE SHAW of Detroit had been moved into a position

similar to

that of a regional director of the FPFCC.

-2-

H# 53025 DocId: 32127956

Page 7

---

## Page 8

CG 62-6115

On December 20, 1960 CG 6103-S advised SA RAYMOND

I. MOONEY O1

a meeting of a group of persons interestod in

forming a North Side Branch of the Chicago Chapter of the

Fair Play for Cuba Committee which meeting was

held on

December 7, 1960 at the home of

EDWARD SWABECK, 1716 St.

Michael's Street, Chicago.

This group decided that an organizational meeting

should be held on January 6, 1961, at the home of MIMI HARRIS.

BARNET was selected to be in charge of the program,

ED

SWABECK was assigned the duty to have the announcements printed

by DICK CRILEY and mailed, and HARRY DEAN was to call ANGUS

SUNNER and JOHN ROSSEN to obtain reading material that can

either be sold or passed out free of charge.

Temporary.

Branch Officers, i.e., Chairman, Secretary and Educational

Director are to

be elected

and MARCIA STARR will collect dues

from new members.

During this meeting, HARRY DEAN was overheard to

state that just before he leit Whiting, Indiana,

he had been

beaten, a rock had

been

thrown through his window and he was

given

a "hard time" by the townspeople.

He said that he

is presently a sheet metal worker in Chicago.

DEAN also

stated that he was in Cuba in June, 1900, and while en route

met ED SWABECK on the plane.

He and SWABECK were in Cuba

at the same time and were together in Cuba at least part of

the time.

DEAN said his first contact with the Cubans was

when

he donated money to the Cuban

cause on two occasions when

they held parades on State Street in 195S. At that time, he

mentioned

that he was working for the Curtis Publishing

Company.

DEAN said he then went to the Cuban Consulate,

Chicago,

and met Dx. FERRIER, a Consulate official.

DEAN

expressed his sympathies toward the CASTRO revolution to

DI. FERRIER. He said that Dr. FERRIER knew of and worked

with the

of the formation of the FPCC.

-4-

53025

DocId: 32127956

Page 8

---

## Page 9

r.i...i.

.DAVE: 0/2/0?

marand, Mi

Contien

e de dentante do dad ideat

coisciare curdai,.

Denarono on tardi 6, 19621

САРДі

..і.i.

Recort

, Decretary, Elengo

i 10n Cuin Concattee (220C).

ie did not

manoen dü Chio Cano.

Lator in the cine

monting nis nore and edvising so

rivenue,

Inciner,

dac Whiting

era pastorias

lore or Mis Consacriste mich

the 2p00, turnicacd

non concernand ine lendoresto oi unic organication,

voüla be amorasie to an interviow with an

inc:

Inda

onis Oralee conducted an inquisylia

Lepisbor, 1900.

Discotive Captait

micidais

Poisce Department advisas

isod

versered in

GORDON ZUNT and

had stipped tova

Cecaponen

hed e verrant ior his arrosi on bac

coragos.

MARENO, -

To sid Dai ves à sell-enployed pitsserei.

100d

Pollos

ü..!

TaLe

Dataine

202

itera

Chicago

Polico Dobarchant undos 23i

incert

roveare:

2i Caraca

mai Doin bad beon committed is

Stu and Was sentonced at Crata:

io "oue yoor indefinito

MCT 262-109060

-5186

NOT REGOADIZ

199 MAY I 1 1957

May stes

1961

condolo di de: Regred! Sandre i Place

HH 53025

DocId: 32127956

Page 9

---

## Page 10

106418

Ai the dime Dlast had one aarost by the betrole Police

Departmens

Low disturbing a religious meeting and two arzests for using

incocont dad

obscone language.

Re was also Anal from Forc

Ahoa, Keasuciy; in 1049.

In Decenbei, 1960, DEAn again called this öffice io

repout that he had been residine in Detroit for the past ivo

months.

At that time he said he was living in Chicago but he

refused to divulge his local address.

He continued to

toiephonically contact this office on several oceasions untia

June, 2991.

He furnished

intomation concerning Cuban nationais

connected

nich the 20ch of July Movemont and on local persons

conneered with the MPCC.

He was last contacied by two agents of the Chicago

Office on june 7, 1961, at which time he was told that this

office did not desire his assistance.

Former (CG 6403-5)

advised in August, 1960, thet DEM

was a white male, age about 25 (in 1950), stocky build, and

black haii.

While DEAN voluntarily furnished information to the

Chicago Office over a period of nearly a year, he was never

considerad

¿ PSI or informant by this cffice.

On Decenber T, 1960, HARRY DEAN telephonically contacted

this office.

re advised thai he had been in contact wich a

1716 St. Michaels, Chicago, Illinois,

number Wh 4-6445.

Fe stated that he had originally met SWABSCE

in Cuba this past suamei.

He said that SWABACk invited him to

a meezing in his home on

the evoning of

December", 1950 at

?p.nc

DEAd stated that this is

& noeting of a fair Play For

Cuba Committee (FPCO) group and that he intended

to aitend.

he said that from thoray SWABECK talled it is his belies that

chis group

shue cause a solit in the group.

is trying is our due other groupa se uhe EPCe and

saic that SWABECK

made mention of

" leiter that he received

from TABER which

stated that EDDIE SHAN o2 Detroit had been moved into a position

Similar to that of a regional director of the FPFCC.

+2 -

H# 53025 DocId: 32127956 Page 10

---

## Page 11

C

CC 02-6195

*i Decenber 20, 1960 CC 6103-S edvisod SA RAYMON

i, MOony of a mecting of a coup of persone interested in

formine & North Side Brunon of the Chicoco Chanter of the

ParRisy for Cuba Comitteo which meeting was held on

Decodbor 7

1960 at the home ci SOWARD SWABSCK, 1716 St.

Mented's Sorost, Chicago.

This group docided that an organisational meeting

should be held on danuary o, 1961, at the home of

MIME HARRIS.

acaom was solooted to be in charge of the programy

SWAleCk was assigned the duty to have the innouncements prinied

by pick Oraley and mailed, and LARRY DEAl waS to call ANGUS

SONOR and JOHN ROSSEN to

either be soid or passed out free of charge.

Branch Officers, i.e., Chairman, Sacretary and Educational

Diroctor are to be electod and MARCIA STARR Will collect dues

iron new membois.

During this meeting,

hARRY DEAd Was overheard to

state that just bercre he icit Whiting, Indiana, he had been

beaten, & lock had been thrown throuch his window and he vas

given & "hare time" by the townspeople.

He said that he

is prosently a sheet metal worker in Chicago. DrAN also

stated snut he wes in Cuba in June, 1950, and

wizle en route

met. ED Staback on the plane.

He end SWABUCK were in Cuba

at the same time and were

together in Cuba at least part of

the time.

DiAt said his first contact with the Cubans was

when he donated money to the Caban

cause on two occasions when

neid parades on State Street in 1958.

At thee time, he

mentioned that he was working for the Curtis Publishing

Company. DEAN Said he then went to the Cuban Consulate,

Chicago, and met De. FERRIDE, a Consulate official.

expressed his sympathies toward the CAS220 revolacion to

Dr.

FEASIER.

and worked

with the 26th of July Movement in Chicago, and le aiso knew

of the formation of the TPCC. According to DEAN,

DI. FERRIER

_4_

H# 53025 DocId: 32127956

Page 11

---

## Page 12

*,

*=

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109217)

DATE: 3/6/64

FROM

SMSAC, LOS ANGELES (105-12933) (C)

SUBJECT:

HARRY DEAN

IS - CUBA

(00: LOS ANGELES)

ALD INEOCEATIOG CONCAINED

ORDIN IS UNCLASSITIE

BARS 15-94 51 9803-RAdE

ReBulet to Los Angeles, 2/19/64.

5068-522/ude 9/28/98

(SATEK)

Enclosed are nine copies of a letterhead memorandum,

dated as above, at Los Angeles, setting forth requested

Intormation concerning the subject.

The enclosure is being classified "Confidential"

for the protection of the sources utilized to cite the Chicago

Chapter of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC) and EDGAR

SWABECK.

The concealed sources utilized in the citations of

the FPCC and EDGAR SWABECK, applicable for the period of DEAN's

activities in Chicago, mostly were derived from the reports

and SA LEE R.

Of SA JOHN N. MORGAN, dated 7/26/61, at Chicago, "EDGAR SWABECK,

INMAN, dated 7/26/62, at Los Angeles, regarding

SM - SWP" (Bufile 100-381850, LA 100-60840) ara CSLA 3184-S,

WE 1282-S and CG 6259-s) in connection with the FPCC and

(4 5933-S, CG 0259-S and LA 4015-S) in connection with SWABECK.

In accordance with Bureau instructions, a letterhead

memorandum concerning FRANK VEGA will be prepared separately

in the case captioned,

"FRANK VEGA, IS - CUBA,

"following

reinterview with DEAN for any additional information he may be

able to furnish regarding VEGA and his contact with him in

Cuba.

2-109068-3X1

status.

2

2-

This case is being placed in a closed

Bureau (Enc. 9) (RM) (AM)

Los Angeles

REC 7..

(1-105-16378-

FRANK VEGA)

WJM/ jm

(4)

5 MAR 10 1964

ENCLOSURE.

Copy 10: CH1/31:te/RAO

ONI/OS!/ACSI

y routing slip for into. 110% ar

68 мл

1 hors

53025

DocId: 32127956

Page 12

---

