# docid-32340940

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/29/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10333

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-1423-18, 19

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : AAG

TITLE :

DATE:

11/25/1958

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

IID, RCK, EMP, REPRESENTATIVE OF NICARAGUA AND

ISRAELI MILITARY INDUSTRIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/02/1996

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32340940

12

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John Fr

Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memurandum • UNITED STALES JOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

12/15/58

SECRET

PROM OSAG, WIEO (205-26269)

S.T.

SUBJECT:

I. IRVING DAVIDSON

REGISTRATION ACT

11-5-94

Declassity

0/o kg

('5K)

Reference Bureau letter to Assistant Attorney

General,

Internal Security Division, dated 11/25/58, with

attached Havana

letter to the Director dated 11/7/58,

entitled "Cuban Political Activities, Foreign Political

Matter - Cuba"

The Bureau's attention is directed to WFO report

01 SA GERARD C. CARROLL dated 7/21/58, entitled "ITZHAK COHEN,

aa. Israel Coher 75S - ISRAEL":

The report of SA CARROLl sets out that lI. COHEN

assumed his duties as Director of the Government of Israel

Ministry of Defense,

Division of Supplies, 250 West 57th €

Street, New York 19, New York on 117/50:s

Since LL. COHEN is carried as an

official of the

Government of Israel, Jno further action will be taken by (5)

this office. RUCe:

ALL 15901

- Bureau

2 - Legat, Havana (109-12)(Rm)

1 - WFO

2-8-98

DH: kmt

(5)

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

a0e to

(JFK)

REG 9p3 = 1423=19

88 DEC 1: 1958

ALL INFORMATIOR CONTAN

NEXED tO CEDASSIFIER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

NAT. DIPSEO,

5.3 DEC 19 103 SECRET

DocId: 32340940

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy Assassination

scords Collection Act of 1992 (4* USC 2107 Hotel.

CON

Mr. Nasca

FORSATION

COM

Classified by_

Declassig

Of:

OADIR

(5F1C)

Assistant

Attorney

Internal Security Division

Even SECREA

Director, FDI

November 25, 1958

Le TRYING DOTAUSON

RBSISCA11Z00

ALL MTORMATION CONTAINED,

HEREIN IS UN

CLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHER

SHOWN

OTHERWISE

Enclosed

nformation of the Internal

Security

Hovenber

Divasion is a copyroc o

nenorandon dated

1958

captioned @cuban Political Netivities,

Inds Intornation is being brought to tho

attention

or the

Internol Security Dinision since the

subject's activities may bring big within the purview

of the loreign

Agants hogistration Act. or 1938 as

onented:

event subject's reststration 1s

follelted or recolved as an agont for the Heprbitc

Cuba

: 01

Mit is requested that this

• Bureau be advised:

(u)

2-1423

Inclosure

DECLASSIE, ORU25N

JFK)

1 = havana

2 - New York

(Enclosures 2)

Declassify i PADR 2.24, 239

2 - Washington Field (105-26269) (Enclosures 2)

Attention SACs. New York and Washington Field: Enclosed

for New York and Washington Field airs one copy each of

Havana letter 11/7/58/together with one copy of the

enclosure thereto.

In accordance with the request of

records to determine whether! Cohen is registered as aS !

foreign agent.

New York and Washington Field Office will

submit the results

their inquiries in a form suitable

for dissemination

18

Tolson

Boardman .

Belmont -

Mohr

Nease

Pars ons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

w.C. Sullivan-

Tello. Prom

Holloman

DEC

Gandy _

MAIL ROOM P

See Note on Yellow, page two.

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit Da iNO! 28 1958

VHN: m1 j m

(10)

CONS

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

DocId: 32340940

Page 3

---

