# docid-32287227

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10197-10003

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-1504

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 10/26/1964

'PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SGI, ACT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS: INC NOTE

y9.1

DocId: 32287227

Page 1

130

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 USC 2107 Hotej.

DATE: 11-14-2017

October 27, 1964

SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION

Informant is golf pro who

frequently plays with Giancana.

No previous association on the part

of Giancana with Desmond and Ford

known. u

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIRIED

CAL

DocId: 32287227

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 011-10-5-6417

v. 10-3-64)

Tolson -

Belmont -

Mohr

De Loach.

Casper

Callahan

Contad _

Evans -

Gale

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes -

Gandy =

DECODED COPY

AIRGRAM

LJ CABLEGRAM

O RADIO

XXX*ELETYPE

6:55 CST DEFERRED 10-26-64 DLM

TO DIRECTOR AND LAS VEGAS

FROM CHICAGO

262337

mendele

SAMUEL

• M.

GIANCANA, AKA; AR.

TAF

CG 6729-PC ADVISED THAT NOTED SINGER JOHNNY/DESMOND

AND COMEDIAN NAMED FRANKXFORD FLEW INTO CHICAGO FROMALAS

VEGAS BOTH WERE PICKED UP

AT AIRPORT BY QUEENIE SIMONELLI

BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTHONY ACCARDO AND BROUGHT TO FRESH

MEADOW GOLF COURSE WHERE THEY PLAYED GOLF WITH GIANCANA.

FOLLOWING COMPLETION OF MATCH BOTH WERE RETURNED TO

AIRPORT "ÄND OSTENSIBLY FLEW BACK TO LAS VEGAS. INFORMANT

STATES EORD FLEW INTO CHICAGO PREVIOUS WEEK-END AND PLAYED

GOLF WITH GIANCANA, HOWEVER, REMAINING AT THAT TIME ONLY

LONG, ENOUGH TO PLAY NINE HOLES. INFORMANT BELIEVES BOTH

HER

INDIVIDUAÏS POSSIBLY APPEARING AT STARDUST HOTEL, LAS

EVEGAS.

4..

LAS VEGAS REQUESTED TO DETERMINE IF EITHER OF ABOVE:

EZEKNOWN TO BE IN LAS VEGAS AND IF ANY HOODLUM CONNECTIONS ....

Y

•HERETOFORE KNOWN ON PART OF EITHER. Y

UNCL

GIANCANA KNOWN TO HAVE PLACED APPROXIMATELY SIX CALLS

ETO LAS VEGAS AND PHOENIX ON SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24 LAST AS

-WELL AS ONE TO NEW YORK.

RECIPIENTS OF CALLS UNKNOWN. 4

NP5856

INFORMANT FURTHER LEARNED THAT BUTCH BLASI, GIANCANA

ED

LIEUTENANT, RETURNED FROM PHOENIX, ARIZONA LATE SATURDAY NIGHT

OCTOBER 24 LAST MCREE HADSOL

INFORMATION AS TO REASON FOR

8:03 PM MLE BI

4

14 OCT 28 1964

NOV 5

1964

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic sustems.

DocId: 32287227

Page 3

---

