# docid-32134557

## Page 1

Released

I under the John E. Kennedy AsSassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE 1114-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10048-10268

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

62-109060-5061

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

SAC, NO

TITLE:

DATE: 04/17/1967

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

ADMINISTRATIVE INSTRUCTIONS

DOCUMENT TYPE:- PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Unclassified

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/17/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

06/01/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

:

DocId: 32134557

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

HotS-so iRer: 5-22-641

DATE: 11-14-2017

4117/67 auriel

TAC,NO

RELiON

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

Date: 4/14/67

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

FROM:

SAC, NEW ORLEANS (89-69)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAGUED

25: JFK

L'u

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

DALLAS, TEXAS, 11/22/63

MISCELLANEOUS - INFO CONCERNING

14.

DALLAS

INTE

JohNNIE WilliAm CANCeR, Us!

B 2-14-23 New ORlouns, La,

VeRNoN* BuNdy

Baxprox

1436

Former NO 1378-C requested that a Special

Agent

of this office contact him at Orleans Parish Prison where

the informant is presently confined following conviction

for simple burglary.

It is to be noted that this former

Informant/has furnished both reliable and unreliable informa-

tion in the past. He was contacted on 4/13/67 and advised

that several weeks ago he talked with BUNDY, who is a fellow

prisoneyrand is the same person who testified that he saw

SHAW pass money to someone on the Lakefront.

BUNDY

indicated that he had been offered a deal by District

Attorney JIM GARRISON if he would testify to a story about

SHAW. According to this source, this conversation allegedly

took place several weeks ago in parish prison prior to the•-

time BUNDY testified. At that time, BUNDY was undecided

what course of action he would pursue, but told the source

and others that he would do anything to get out of his

sentence.

BUNDY indicated in so many words without coming

out and

stating directly that his testimony was not true

and a story was given to him to tell.

REC CT: 674109060-5061

- Bureau

- Dallas

(89-43)

2 - New Orleans

ECW: jab

Arpgroved:

rand

REN.

Special Agent indellarge

ide.

Sent

Per

DocId: 32134557 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Colleation Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

Hit 14.5

1 - Mr. Lenthan

4/17/67.

Airtel

To:

SAC,

NeREd Leans (89-69)

From:

Director, FBI (62-109060)

-ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT

.. JOHN FITZGERALD

"KENNEDY"

DALLAS, TEXAS, 11/22/63*

EX-103)

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNINC

-5061

interview with former NO 1378-C.

Reurairtel 4/14/67 setting forth results of your

During such interview your

source furnished information he received from Bundy and he also

furnished information regarding a contact. he had with

Lynn Loisel.

You should inmediately forward to the Bureau a

letterhead memorandum suitable for dissemination setting forth

data you reported in your airtel of 4/14/67.

Your attention 1s directed to Bureau airtel to all.

assassination of President.Kennedy

is to be incorporated into a letterhead memorandum suitable

for dissemination and furnished to the Bureau by airtel the

same date it is received.

In the future, make certain that these instructions

are followed by your office.

2 - Dallas (89-43)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REL:aS ds

(5)

Tolaur!

DeLouch -

Mohi

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad -

Felt

Gile

Rosen

Sullivan.

Tavel .

Trotter.

Tele. Room

56MAY2

Holmos.

" Gandy

MAIL ROOM V

TELETYPE UNIT L

DocId: 32134557 Page 3

MAILED 12

APR 1719671 DEGE DE MELICE

COMM-FBI

HE 19

i 4-1011"

NET PINED

---

