# docid-32332648

## Page 1

Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USt 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90103-10049

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2940-430

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/30/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/31/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32332648

18

Page 1

---

## Page 2

*eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Retords Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-143 (Rev.

4-2-63)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1902 EDITION

• OSA GEN.

nio. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMEND

Memorandum

JUNE

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

(Bufile 92-2940 ) DATE:

3/30/64

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-226-Sub 2)

SUBJECT:

JUSTIFICATION FOR CONTINUATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE :

Title

SEBASTIAN JOHN-LA ROCCA, aka.

#S

F/character of Case ANTI-RACKETEERING

Field Office

PITTSBURGH

Declassily on: OADR SPE

Symbol Number

PG 622-C* CONF. INT

Type of Surveillance: (Technical or

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GC

Microphone) Microphone (MUTT

DECLASSIFY O:l: 25X (l6) (SE) 3/7/98

Installation)

1. Name of person or organization on whom, surveillance placed:

SEBASTIAN JOHN LA ROCCA Owner, North Star Cement BLOCK

Company, 12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh Pa.)

2.

Address where installation made. Also give exact room number or area

covered:

The Pittsburgh Office of the North Star Cement Block Company,

12 McCandless Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.

3.

Location of monitoring plant:

Pittsburgh FBI Office,

450 Union Trust Building,

Fifth Avenue and Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.

4. Dates of initial authorization and installation:

Initial authorization: 1/26/61

Installation: 1/30/61 (actually activated on 2/7/61)

Previous and other installations on the same subject (with dates and places) :

No other installations.

4o.

REG21 92-2.940-430

answer following questions

(There is no tesur involved in this installation.)

Is a trunk line utilized?

€ MAR 31 1964

ALL ENFURMATIUN CUNLAL

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

6.

SHOWN

EXCEPT WHERE

Registered

. Mai

ttsburg

VARR 13

•Is the surveillance on a switchboard?

c." Is the surveillance on a p

thic lcoin operatela

shone?

:*..

1964

622

SECDET

DocId: 32332648

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U5C 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

PG

92-226-Sub 2

- SECKED *

do Is surveillance on a private line or a party line?

e. If a party line, how many parties?

7. Il a microphone surveillance involved, state number of microphones actually

used and location of each:

one MUlT unit is installed and concealed in the floor space

between subject's business office and lavatory.

8. Is the installation part of a tel-mike? If so, give symbol of other side

of the combination:

Not part of a tel-mike.

9. Specific examples of valuable information obtained since previous report

with indication of specific value of each item and the date information

received. State what use was made of each item involved: (Add insert pages)

Consult insert pages. All information was utilized for

intelligence purposes and

appropriate dissemination

made where pertinent.

10. Could above information have been obtained from other sources and by other

means?

No.

11. Number of live informants (in field division) who cover same subject:

Two live informants cover LA ROCCA but there are no live

informants furnishing information relative to the North

Star Cement Block Company®

12.

Has security factor changed since installation?

No change.

13. Any request for the surveillance by outside agency (give name, title and

agency) :

No requests made.

14. Cost of Plant Premises:

a. Rental costs for plant premises:

b.

None: (costs included in vella natored at sane plant.

total number of other

One unit of a misur

One unit of a misur (PG

was

One unit of a misur (PG 713-C*)

was

activated on 6/14/63.

activated on 3/6/64.

- 2 -

SECRET!

DocId: 32332648 Page 3

---

