# docid-32330272

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency. Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90089-10307

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-344127-NR

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

MM

TITLE:

DATE: 06/17/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

ROLANDO MASFERRER

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HW 45862

DocId: 32330272

Page 1

18

---

## Page 2

Corman

Nasca

esar

June 17,

1959

Airtel

To: SAC, Miami

Fron: Director, FBI

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFEIRER BOJAS

JUSTO LUIS POZO del PUERTO

PEDRO DIA&

NEUIRALITY MATTERS

(SPS MAC E1 - 575/44-5F2)

ALI INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASS LAD

DATE_

_ BY2842Pm BAlloms

3/19/85 SPG. Bja/ Tan

Enclosed

is a copy of Department letter

6/13/59.

For your informacion the memorandum dated

6/5/59 referred to therein contained doto set forth

in your teletype dated 6/4/59 re Anti-videl Castro

A copy of the 6/5/59 memoranium is enclosed. OTHER 4

In view of the possible violatione referred to in the

Deportent's letter, you should immediately institute an

investigation aimed. at obtaining legally admissible evidence

which would prove the allegations. Obtain signed statements

wherever possible.

You should submit your recommendations

relative to making PSI

and PSI Robert

Willions available to the Department as witnesses in this matter.

In the event you recommend against such action, you should

endeavor to develop other sources who will be able to testify

to the some information.

•Vou should endeavor to determine the

identities of those involved, the source of their funds and

the details of their activities, Endeavor to determine if the

planes to be utiliaed in this netter were actually obtained

and disguised as indicated.

You should

consider an interview with Jaffee

concerning the allegation that he flew arms from lutami to Cuba,

it being noted that Jaffee has furnished information to your

office in the recent past.

You should also endeavor to obtain

independent verification of the allegation that he made such

a flighta.

Consideration should be given to an interview with

Tolson

Belmont

DeLoach

Enclosures

- 34

MeGuire

JUN 3 0 1959

Rosen

Tamm.

100

(Inti-fidel Castro Activities)

Trotter

100-344127 Rolando Hasferrer)

W.C. Sullivan

L'S-LIGATE

JUN1 7 1959

MAILED

Tele. Room

Holloman -

VHN: jIw

Gandy -

TELETYPE UNIT [

NW 45862 DocId: 32330272

Page 2

Handless

PRIGINAL FILED IN

---

## Page 3

Airtel 8o

ЗАС,

hd and

SES° ROLANDO ARCADIO MASTERLER BOJAS

JUSZO LUIS POLGOdel PUERZO

PEDRO DIA&

Brle Peacoch in viem of the allegation that Foso and Losferrer

reportedly ore recruiting Amerloon pilose through hin and

ven sobert vous to determine the type of worts is does for

Wasjerrer.

You should conster utilising & suitable preseat

to interpien Willtan Johnson and Cheater Later concerning

their trip to Cuba providing this con be done without jeopardiaing

your infornont who flew these indtoiduale to Cube.

It would

appear that

such interuleus ore feasible de both raportedly node

draings and tolhed to many people unile in Guts abous nillary

installationg.

Efforts should be made to locate and router

Johnson's hani accounte since he allogedly racetnas money for

She anti-lastro movement wich he delivero so Fono. You should

also logote and reulew the bank cooounte of Pono in an effort

to determine the source of his funde and unether ho reselves

money fron Johnson.

In view of the importonce of thie natter. you chould

Submit a report at the eerileat posaible time.

HW

45862 DocId: 32330272 Page 3

---

