# docid-32306759

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote].

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10290-10399

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-6054-5TH NR 2310

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

SAC, DL

TITLE:

DATE: 04/15/1968

'PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS :

LCN, MEMBERS, OC, IDENT, CIP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32306759

Page 1

28

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Dallas (137-1908)

4/15/08

PERSONAL AITENTION

Director, FBI (66-2542-11-12)

TOP ACHELON CRIMINAL INFORMANT PROGRAM

LA COSA NOSTRA - ANTI-RACKETEERING

It has previously been pointed out that one

of our

prinary coals in the Czininal Intelligence Program

is the

full identification and subsequent prosecution of

the membership of La Cosa Nostra (LCN), the dominant group

in organized crime in this country.

With an ever increasing

publid awareness of the significance of LCN on a national

basts, and in consideration of the Bureau's heavy

responsibilities in the field of organized crime, it 1s

necessary that complete intelligence be developed regarding

LeN.

A review of progress reported in the identification

of members of LCH reveals that a substantial number have been

identified by many offices; however, your office has identi-

fied only four members within your Division.

This serves

to highlight the urgent need for the Dallas Office to obtain

sources who can reliably identify LCN membership within your

Division.

The basic makeup of LCN within your Diviston has

been relatively undeveloped.

Our investigations of ICN have revealed the absolute

necessity of establishing sources who are in a position to

provide accurate and authentic data regarding this organization.

It has also been shown that a complete picture concerning the

prevalence of IN in a particular area cannot be established

without such sources.

You are expected to show a marked improvement in

identifying LCN members within your Division.

To this end,

there must be a concentrated and imaginative effort to

penetrate LCN with member-informants.

The significant

achievenents by many offices in this

field point: out that a

hard-hitting, continuous program will produce concrete results.

1

(92-6054) La Cosa Nostra - Anti-Racketeering

Mr.

Kent

Mr. Emery

42-6034

JEK: 618 FAS

66 APR 181968

NOT RECORDED

165 APR 16 1968

ORIGINAL FILED ID

DocId: 32306759 Page 2

---

