# docid-32304234

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10285-10246

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 105-206714-3

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC. NY

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John

• Kennedy

basassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#: NW

54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 10/16/19.70

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT:

SBB, RES, EMP, ASSOC, TRA, TELCAL, SUBSCRIBERS, CP AFFIL

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

09/01/1998

STATUS Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DocId: 32304234

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

SUBJECT:

N

5010-108

OFTIONAL FORM NO. 10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.8

UNITED STATES

PERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

SECRET

COM

STIAL DATE: 10/16/70

SAC, NEW YORK

ALE INFORKATION CONDAINED

MIRIN IS UNCRASS/FIED EXCRET

METERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

GARY GOSS.

IS-R

(Bufile 105-206714)

(NYfile 105-110005

5268-52

Classhied by 5b48 5LD/rud

Declassily on: OADR JFK

OTIS GILETTE HILL

IS-R

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

(BuTtle 105-120004)

AND ETEED FICES

(NYfile

ADVICED BY ROUTING

SLIP (5) 05

espreston

ReBulet, 10/8/70. 1

DATE 3/6/78

LAllass

Regarding the instructions and provisions set out

in the above referenced letter, the following information is

set forth:

been in New Mexico in thelast two years, reference is made to

Albuquerque teletype 4/19/69 and airtel

of 5/8/69

with infor-

mation confirming his presence in Santa Fe on 4/18/69. At

that time, he had travelled alone and dined at the home of

SAMUEL BALLEN of Santa Fe who is the President of the Cor-

poration that owns the La Fonda Hotel at which he stayed.

It is possible that the above captioned subjects mayealso

have been

present at BALLEN's home that particular evening.

AS

,a matter of interest, it is noted that LESIOVSKI

had returned fromthe Soviet Union on 6/26/69.

calls to the above subject in question were made on 7/11

Grand 12/69. The original phone records furnished by

NY 7400-S were again reviewed and the additional pertinent

Information was obtained.

As previously noted, all of these

calls in question were made from Martha's Vineyard, Massachu-

setts.

The bill reflects that the call made on 7/11/69

(Friday-to HILL) was a direct dial call and lasted for

approximately two minutes.

02

5-Bureau (RM)

cus

-20618%%

=3

(1-105-99311) (LESIOVSKI)(

3-Albuquerque

(RM)

1-105-2091

(NOSS

SENDET

(1-105-2092

(HILL

EX-IIII

17 OCT 21.1970

4-New York

Classinea

1259

590CT 2 Y 1970

CDS, Category S

Bite of Declassi

313/2/78

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly bn the Payroll Savin

an

OGE

HAL

ily

UINRECORDED

COPY

FILED

NW 54463 DocId: 32304234

Page 2

---

## Page 3

SECRET

REOBER

NY 105-110005

The call made on 7/12/69 (Saturday-to NOSS).

was a collect call and consequently rot direct dial and

was approximately seven minutes in length. U

It is noted that another phone call was also

made on 7/12/70 to Greenwich, Connecticut.

Investigation has

established that this call was made to a phone subscribed

to by JOSEPH HYMAN FILNAR (Bufile 100-2341) -and to DORIS

JONES FILNAR (Bufile 100-410630).

The FILNARs are former

subjects of the No with long time cP alfiliations. As :

matter of interest, all the phone numbers furnished byNY 7400-S, (S

and set forth

in NY let of 6/4/70, have all been subsequently

shown to unquestionably have been

made by the subject. &

-(S)

the above

INy (7400-Sxwas contacted on 10/13/70, relative to

latters and was unable to furnish any observations

of value other than the fact that(LESIOVSKI is seemingly per-CSCU

sonally acquainted with every section of the Us through

travel.

The NYO has no observations on the significance of

the age difference of the subjects or the sequence of the

calls.

It is noted that HILL is formerly from Houston,

Texas, and

in any anticipated contact with him, this back-

ground might be utilized as an entre pretext.

The pretext

entree of NOSS is considerably easier because of his back-

ground of employment by the University of California.

It is felt that this facet of NOSS' background should be

further explored.

Both pretexts could be of the nature of

a survey of leading members of the community to determine

subjects will endanger the security of

X NY 7400-S, because of the unusual nature of the origina

information and how it was furnished and subsequently

determined.

-2=

SECRET

COUr

B-10210

NH 54463

DooId:32304234 Page 3

---

