# docid-32325260

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-90035-10157

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 122-2424-224

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: PG

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 06/27/1961

PAGES: 3

SUBJECT:

BARNEY BAKER

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

05/26/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

TT

DocId: 32325260 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aót of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

BUREAU OF iNVESTIGAR

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

JUN2 7 196%

TELETYPE

1,

Tolson.

Belmont-

2. Callah

Callahan.

#Ir. Contad.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans

Mr. Malone.

Mr. Rosen.

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr.

Tavel

MI.

Trotter

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy

URGENT

6-27-51

6-44

PM

DLH

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 122-2424, SAC, CHICAGO 122-436, SAC, MIAMI122-90

FROM SAC, PITTSBURGH 122-97

ROBERT BERNARD BAKER, AKA, LMRA DASH IM. REBUAIRTEL JUNE

IWENTY LAST. THIS MATTER DISCUSSED WITH USA AMMERMAN, PITTSBURGH

THIS DATE. HE BELIEVES THAT INDICATIONS DEVELOPED TO DATE

OF UNAUTHORIZED TRAVEL BY BAKER WILL SUPPORT A PETITION

TO THE COURT FOR REVOCATION OF HIS BOND. HE WISHED TO HOLD

ACTION UPON SAME IN ABEYANCE HOWEVER IN VIEW OF FACT IBT

GENERAL CONVENTION IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD IN MIAMI JULY

THREE THROUGH TEN NEXT AND HE FEELS BAKER WILL IN ALL

PROBABILITY ATTEND. IF SO, AND IT CAN BE BROUGHT TO

THE COURTS ATTENTION THAT HE IS THEN AND THERE TRAVELLING

ON TEAMSTER BUSINESS CONTRARY TO HIS BOND PROVEECOLE, HE FEELS

THE GOVERNMENT WILL BE IN THE STRONGEST POSITION POSSIBLE

122-2424-224

TO MOVE FOR REVOCATION OF BAKERS BOND. MINISHES TO BE JUN 20 1968

ABLE TO PROVE BY WITNESSES BAKERS PRESENCE IN MIAMI IE HE

DOES TRAVEL THERE. PG

P6 SIX ZERO ONE DASH C ADVISED THAT THE

END PAGE ONE

303

68JUL3

1961

it Kept

DocId: 32325260 Page 2

---

