# docid-32309923

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10301-10189

HQ

63-7985-19

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NU 45985 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

HIRSCHENBERGER, HENRY

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 11/29/1962

PAGES:

59

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 10(a)2

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF DOJ

COMMENTS: REFERRED TO DOJ

v9.1

HHT 45985

DocId: 32309923

Page

---

## Page 2

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-591)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF-JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

1 - Departmental Attorney,

Chicago

Report of:

Date: 11-29-62

Field Office File #:

SAA HENRY HIRSCHENBERGER

Office: CHICAGO

Title:

Character:

Synopsis:

62-6020

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

IRWIN S. WEINER;

ALLEN M. DORFMAN

Bureau File #: 63-7985

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING AND FRAUD SECTION)

(ACCOUNTING INVESTIGATION)

Department requests investigation of reports that

ALLEN DORFMAN

and IRVIN WEINER with no

apparent

effort

have

obtained the insurance and bonding business

connected with hotels, motels and other businesses

which have been recipents of loans from the Teamsters

Central States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension

Fund.

Allegedly the insurance 1s going through local

agencies but the DORFMAN group is receiving the

commissions.

Results of examination of certain records

(mainly Pension Fund files) produced before the

August, 1962 FGJ at Chicago, Illinois, set forth.

JFK LaW 10(a)2

This document contans neither recommendations nor conclusions. of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to

your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 45985

DocId: 32309923 Page 2

---

## Page 3

CG 62- 6020

HH: kmg

DETAILS: AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

This investigation is predicated upon a request

for investigation contained in a memorandum of Assistant

Attorney General HERBERT J. MILLER, JR., Criminal Division,

Department of Justice, dated October 15, 1962.

The memorandum requesting this investigation is

set forth as follows:

"Reports have been received that Allen Dorfman and

Irvin Weiner with no apparent effort have obtained the insurance

and bonding business connected with hotels, motels and other

businesses which have been recipients of loans from the Central

States Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund. Allegedly,

the insurance is going through local agencies but the Dorfnan

group is receiving the commissions.

"Stanley Mallin of the Atlanta Cabana Notor Hotel,

Atlanta, Georgia, said Doriman got the insurance

business

through Haas and Dodd Co. of Atlanta; that Haas invested $20,000

in the Atlanta Cabana and in return wrote a $500,000 poli- on

Mallin and Jay Sarno.

'Elliot I. Haas and Dodd Insurance Brokers, Atlanta,

Georgia, was interviewed by the Eureau in relation to his

activities with the Atlanta and Dallas Cabana.

Haas stated that

he got a small policy from the Atlanta Cabana

but the premiuns

are very nominal.

He also said that because of construction

investments he made in the Dallas Cabana,

he was given the

opportunity to write $500,000 in life policies on Sarno and Mallin.

records at Republic National Life of Dallas, Texas, show Haas

placed business with Cambridge Insurance Agency, General Agents

for Republic, and earned a commission in excess of $2,000.

(There is a Republic National Life check dated May 26, 1960, to

Elliot L. Haas for $2, 115.31) •

Cambridge earned the overvrite

on the Sarno Mallin life policies according to a report of

Carl Schultz C/O Bureau of Labor Management Reports, Chicago.

NW 45985 DooId: 32309923 Page 3

---

## Page 4

2

CG 62: 6020

HH: kmg

"Republic's files indicate

that on April 20, 1960,

Republic National Life advised Cambridge that they were splitting

the conmissions between Elliot Haas of Atlanta and Cambridge on

policies #187239 and #187240 written on Stanley Mallin and Jay

Sarno.

"Sol Schwartz is in frequent telephone communication

with Charles Griffin, Raymond Nelson and "Gene" Willage at

TR 3-6581, Atlanta, Georgia.

It is not known whether this

has any relationship to the

Atlanta Cabana insurance.

"According to Frank Wright, President of United

Bonding Co., Indianapolis, Indiana, Irving Weiner picked

up the insurance business (with possible premiums of $1,000,000)

for the Castaways Motel, Miami Beach, Florida.

Wright

also

said that Weiner had obtained the insurance for the Everglades

Hotel in Miami. The Atlanta Cabana Motor Hotel, the Castaways

Motel and the Everglades Hotel in Miami all received loans

from the Pension Fund.

"It is requested that the Bureau interview Frank Wright,

President of United Bonding Co., Indianapolis, Indiana, concerning

his knowledge of the arrangement whereby insurance and

bonding

furnished relative to these Pension Fund loans were acquired

by the Dorfmans and to concuct an investigation

to determine the

following relative to the above mentioned loans by the Teamsters

Pension Fund:

"(1)

what agencies and underwriting companies are

involved;

"(2) what policies have been taken;

"(3) what commissions have been paid;

"(4) to whom.

"(5) Interviews

are requested

with local insurance

and bonding agents to determine whether they

have been approached

with "kickback"

' proposals.

Vi

- 3

NW 45985 DooId: 32309923 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3

CG 62-6020

HH: kmg

Cambridge

policies."

"(6)

The Bureau is also requested to determine why

got a portion of Haas' commission on the Mallin-Sarno

Certain date were ils0 furnished by the Department in

connection with this request for investigation.

Included in this

was a memorandum IrOM WALTER C. SHERIDAN, tO JEROME S. ADLERMAN

of the Department of dustice dated January 14, 1960, with respect

tO JAMES R. HOFFA - Summit Fidelity and Surety Company; ALieN

DORFMAN; Teamster Bonding•

This memorandum records the results

of an interview of FRANK WRIGHT, President of the United Ponding

Company of Indianapolis, Indiana, on January 13, 1960. The infor

mation furnished by WRIGHT relates principally to the Teamster

Bonding Program which was set up following the passage of the

Landrum-Griffin Bill on September 14, 1959. Among other things

WRIGHT advised WALTER J. SHERIDAN that sometime in December, 1959,

he was contacted by a man named DON PLETTS, who represented an o

agency in Miami, Florida. PLETTS told WRIGHT that he had the

Teamster Bonding business and offered to post a cash collateral of

$300, 000 ₽

FLETTS had previously contacted JIM HALPERN of the

United Public Insurance Company of Indianapolis for the seme

purpose.

WRIGHT advised that a man named JOHN QUINLAN, WED

was with the Peerless Insurance Company, even quit his job to go

with PLETTS because PLETTS seemed so certain of getting the Teamster

business.

Also made available by the Department was a copy of a report

made by Compliance Officer CARL N. SCHULTZ on September 1, 1961, at

Chicago, Illinois. SCHULTZ is compliance officer with the Bureau

of Labor Management Reports of the United States Department of Labor.

This report is entitled United Benefit Fire Insurance Company of

Omaha, Nebraska; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; JAMES R.

HOFFA, President.

This report concerns the Teamster Bonding Program

and reflects the results of interviews by SCHULTZ with FRANK RIGHT,

President,

and NORMAN L. STOTTS, Chief of the Bond Department,

United Bonding Insurance Company, Indianapolis, Indiana.

NH 45985 DooId: 32309923 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CG

62-6020

RH: kng

Among other things WRIGHT advised SCHULTZ that he

heard a rumor that IRWIN WEINER got the insurance business

Of the Castaways Motel and the Everglades Hotel, both

of whom are recipients of International Brotherhood of

Teamster Pension Fund loans.

WRIGHT said that the premiums

on the Everglades cousd total $1,000,000 and that WEINER got

the business "by just walking in".

SCHULTZ's report notes that a previots chronology

shows that VEINER was at the Atlanta Cabana and that CHARLES W.

BRAY, who was connected with the Federal Casualty Company,

Chicago, Illinois, telephoned the General Oglethorpe for

a reservation.

The following memorandum with respect to ALLEN and

MARILYNNE DORFMAN and PAUL and ROSE DORFMAN and their associates

was also furnished by the Department in connection with the

requested investigation. This memorandum is set forth as follows:

"Paul Dorfman and Rose Dorfman and their son, Allen, have

long been alleged to be the liaison between James R. Hoffa and

Chicago racketeers. They have reportedly been the source of

large sums of money for Hoffa. The McClellan Committee disclosed

that the Dorfmans had obtained millions of dollars in commissions from

Teamster insurance programs.

Since the McClellan investigations, much

of the Dormans' activity has been conducted through 'front"

organizations operated by Dorfman associates. Their principal associ

ates are Irwin R. Weiner, Sol C. Schwartz, Irving R. Nemerov, Bernard

N. Nemerov, Ross Miller and Theodore Shulman.

"Ross Miller and Ted Shulman allegedly "front' for the

Dorfmans in the control of the Dunes and Riviera Hotels in Las Vegas.

"The Nemerovs allegedly represented Dorfman interests in

Trans-Continental Life Insurance Co. incorporated in Illinois in

June 1958 and subsequently sold to Spencer Austrian. Presently the

Nemerovs run the California Life Insurance Co. of Oakland, California.

= 5 -

NH 45985 DooId: 32309923 Page 6

---

## Page 7

5

CG 02-6020

HH: kmg

(Chicago office at 134 N. LaSalle) which was purchased from the

Teanster-allied Laundry Workers Union.

Involved in this company's

operations are Jack Goldberger and Jim Harding.

"Irwin Weiner is believed to be connected with:

"American Bail Bond Co., Chicago, Illinois

"American Bonding Agency, Inc.,

Chicago, Illinois (may be same as above)

"Auto-Mat Manufacturing Co.

"Continental

Processing Co.

"I S P Sales Inc., 1019 South State Building, Chicago, Illinois

"Leo Ragendorf

"P&S By-Products, Inc.

"Twin Distributing Co., Inc.

"Twin Food Products, Inc. (employed Alderisio, Caifano, Battaglia and

Frabotta)

"Weiner Volin Insurance Agency, Inc.

"Sol Schwartz is connected with Union Health & Welfare

Insurance Agency, 330 S.

Wells Street, Chicago. Other officers are

Philip H. Gold 7316 N. Sheridan Road, Chicago, and Norman B. Owens,

941 Ridge Avenue, Evanston, Illinois.

"Exchange National Bank reco.)s list as related accounts to

many of Dorfman's or Weiner's companies the following:

"John Carson)

)

Also appeared as:

John Carson Smith Lodge

"Lodge Smith)

"Equity Land Co.

"S & G Wheaton Building

NW 45985 DooId:32309923 Page 7

---

## Page 8

0G 62-6020

"United utates realty & Construction Co.

"Schwartz and Weiner wore jovolved in the Tearstor Ponding

Progran Which also concerned the following individuals and companies:

"Angelo Branchi, Chicago, Illinois

"Charles ". Bray, 820 N. Glenayre Drive, Glenview, Illinois

"Janes

We Agan, 10565 W. Glennon Drive, Denver, Colorado

"Stewart W. Hopps, 2 Cliff Road, Belvedere, Caliïornia

"Don Ross, Im. 106, 330 S. Nells Street, Chicago

"Lawrence lochtield, aka Larry Roth, Rn. 706, 330 S. Wells Streot,

Chicago

"Artilintid lookers, Inc., Delevare corporation (Bray-lleeps)

"/inglo Canadian Underwriters, Itd., (Hopps) 11 Val! Street, New York

"Associatod Inswers, Ltd. (Eray and Hopps)

"control insualty Insurance Co., Evanston, Illinois

"Contaad inoranty Ins. Co. (Corned by Bray and Voiner i/el)

"Conopo stan insurance Co., 1120 sheridan load, Grinaro

"vonor Dray Hervice (Can.) Ltd. Canadian corp. 10/21/50, E.0. Rox 1535 -

Nassan, Bahamas

"lioner Tray service Inc., Evanston, Illinois

"Illinois Agency of Sumnit Fidelity & Surety CO:, (Short lived in 1952)

"Intercontinental Ins. & Surety Co. of Panana, formed 1959

"Intercontinental Ins. Co., P.O. Box 1306, Nassau, bahanas (may be

same as above

"Rediterranean. Insurance Co. (Bray)

"National Oxford Agency Inc:

-7.

NW 45985 DooId: 32309923 Page 8

---

## Page 9

CG 62-6020

HH: Kmg

"National Oxford Agency,

Inc .,

1223 N. LaSalle Street, Chicago

(may

be same as above)

"Oxford Agency, Inc., Illinois corporation 12-24-59, 141 West Jackson

Blvd.

"Pacific Service Co.

"R & R Insurance Co., 330 S. Wells Street, Chicago

"Titan Co. Inc:, Illinois corporation 7-6-61, 1019 S. State, Chicago

"Titan Management Corp., Il S. Lasalle, Chicago, (may be same as above)

"Tropical Holdings, Inc., (Bray Co.)

" Dorfman companies have included:

"Aldor Insurance Agency, Inc., Indiana corporation, 9-16-54

"Alro Agency, Inc., Michigan corporation, 10-252

"Alro Insurance Agency, Inc., Illinois corporation, 1-26-54

"Amalgamated Insurance Agency Services, Inc., 5-18-56

"Business Life Agencies, Inc., Illinois corporation, 10-26-56

"Cadillac Insurance 'Inc.

"Cambridge Insurance Agency, Inc., Illinois corporation, 4-26-56

"Central Insurance Consultants, Chicago, Illinois

"Conference Insurance Consultants, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, 4-60

"Country Club Miniatures, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, Ohio corporation

NW 45985 DooId:32309923 Page 9

---

## Page 10

8

CG 62-6020

HH: kmg

"Dorfman Investments, Partnership, 1954

"Dover Insurance Agency, Ltd., Illinois corporation, 3-23-54

"Imperial Insurance Agency, Inc., Mo. corporation, 6-19-56

"Jack O'Lantern Lodge, Inc., corporation,- 6-1-52

"Joll Properties, partnership: 12-5-50

"Magna Carta Investment Co., Inc.

"Mercury Investment Corp., Illinois corporation, 1-28-56

"Morningstar Hotel, Inc., about 1956

"New Flamboyant Hotel, Virgin Islands, about 1956-1960

"Northwestern Oil Co., Partnership, 7-1-52

"Pan American Investment Corp., Illinois corporation, 11-8-55.

"Sheridan Investments, Inc'., Illinois corporation, 9-17-56

"Sheridan Lien Co., joint venture, 2-15-57

"Southwest Insurance Agency, partnership, Chicago, 1958, Rose and Allen

1961--Schwartz partner

"Tecunseh Lodge, InC., Delawaze corporation, 4-25-46

"Union Insurance Agency of Illinois, partnership, 8-1-50

"Windsor Investment CO., Illínois coxporation, 9-11-54

Other companies believed to be controlled by or connected

with Dorfman include:

"Fidelity Bankers Life Insurance Co., Chicago, Illinois

"Girardian Insurance Co., Dallas, Texas, and Chicago, Illinois

-..

NW 45985 DooId:32309923 Page 10

---

## Page 11

9

CG 62- 6020

HH: kng

"Intercontinental Insurance Co., (received mail at Dorfman offices)

"Pan suerican Distributors, Inc., Puerto Rican corporation, 9-60

•"Southwest Insurance Agency, Dallas Texas, Texas corp. 10-15-56 -

9 = 5-60

"Union Casualty & Life Insurance Co. (receiving mail at Dorfman's office)

"Wacker Insurance Agency, Inc.

"West Coast Insurance Consultants,

Inc., Chicago, Illinois

"Other individuals who are or have been closely associated

with the Dorfmans 'include:

"Myer

Breen, 1221 N. LaSalle, Chicago

and 2322 N. Commonwealth, Chicago

"Lucillelerkin, 1221 N. LaSalle, Chicago

"Philip Goodman, 201 N. Wells Street (believed to have broken with

Dorfman)

"Robert Greenfield, 1483 or 1843 Edgewood Lane, Winnetka, Illinois now

at 175 W. Jackson, Chicago, (believed to have broken with

Dorfman about 1957)

"James Kalil, Detroit, Michigan

"Other individuals and companies possibly lined to the

Dorfmans include:

"Jack or Joc Katz

'Harold Goldberg, 20 Jerusalem Avenue, Hicksville, New York

223 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, New York

• 10 -

NH 45985 DocId: 32309923 Page 11

---

## Page 12

10

CG 62- 6020

HH: kmg

"Bergman and Lerkow Insurance Agency

"Fidelity Bankers Life Insurance Co.: 500 T. Broad Street, Richmond,

virginia

"Guaranty Trust Mutual Life Insurance Co., San Antonio, Texas

"National Life Insurance Co.

"Old Republic Life Insurance Co., 307 N. Michigan, Chicago

"Doriman had held, through Sheridan Investments; Inc.,

considerable stock in Northeastern Life Insurance Co. of New York

(formerly Mt. Vernon Life Insurance, formerly Union Casualty & Life

Insurance Co.)* Exchange bank records show Sheridan Investments is

being liquidated for the purpose of Dorfman entering into an unknown

. Canadian venture.

Financial statements of Fidelity Bankers (a

company headed by T. Coleman Andrews) show

that Fidelity has acquired

Northeastern common shares at a cost of $3,959,345.

There is a note

that $2,068, 408.80 represents

the excess of cost of Northeastern.

over admitted value at acquisition.'

"Mail has been received at the Dorfman offices from the

following companies which may be linked with Dorfman of Stewart Hopps:

"American Overseas Underwriters, 2001 N.W. Yth Street, Miami, Florida

"Florida-Carribean Underwriters, 200: N.". ith Street, Miami, Florida

"Guarantee Trust Life Insurance Co., 2537 W. Montrose, Chicago, Illinois

Room 406, 134 N. LaSalle, Chicago, Illinois

"Union Labor Life Insurance Co., Room 710, 23 East Jackson, Chicago,

Illinois

"The Dorfmans have done business with the following banks:

'Amorican National Banl: & Trust Co:

"Commercial State Bank & Trust Co., New York (1953)

• 17 c

NH 45985 DocId: 32309923 Page 12

---

## Page 13

11

CG 62 - 6020

HH: kmg

"Cosmopolitan National Bank & Trust Co., Chicago

"Exchange National Bank of Chicago

"Guaranty National Bank (formerly Southmoor Bank) 6760 Stony Island

• Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

"Bank of Highland Park, lst and Central Aveue, Highland Park, Illinois'

(safety deposit box)

"North Shore National Bark

"Paul Dorfman ip Allen's stepfather; he gained control of

the Chicago Waste Handler! Union Local 20467 after the mysterious

muder in 1939 of its founder Leon Cooke.

He has been associated with the

Tate Claude Maddox, Pony Vacardo, Abc Tentelbaum, Johans Alienthe

late Longie Zwillman, Joey Glinco and Murray Humphreys.

nother is the former

Rose Pitman previoily married to

• Meyer Melnik.

Paul is bout 61, Rose about 56 and Allen about 39 years old.

Allen

changed his name

from Allen Melnick to Allen Melnick Dorfman in

September 1945.

"Paul and Rose live at 5801 N. Sheridan Road, Apt. 200.

"Paul's brother William married Rose's sister Faye. William

died a few years ago.. Faye, about 48, survives as does a 21 year old

daughter,

Ila,

who is married to 23 year old Ira Lustig. Jay Dorfman,

6821 Ridge, is Allen's younger brother.

"All of these relatives appear in various dealings of Allen

and Paul.

"Paul Dorfman has been reported to have insurance interests

with "Milwaukee Phil" Alderisio, "Obbie" Frabbotta, and Santos

Traficanti, all prominent lacketeers."

NW 45985 DocId: 32309923 Page 13

---

