# docid-32310007

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 21U7 Rote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10301-10273

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1236

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: AG

TITLE :

DATE :

10/24/1963

' PAGES :

1

SUBJECTS :

SAM GIANCANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310007

Page 1

270

---

## Page 2

eLeased under the John F

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992-444

UST' 2107* Hotel.

OCT 24

1963

COMM-FBI

The Attorney General

Director, FBI

1

It tod

SAVEL Mo

GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

October 24, 1963

- Mx. Belmont

- Mr. Evans

Mr.

Stanley

MT o

Mc Andrews

- Mr. Leggett

Our Chicago Office has received information that

miri

Vito Marzullo, an Alderman in the city of, chicago, was

scheduled to replace Congressman Roland Libonatig who

leader casey callon into Alofaror with Chicago undervorla

Glancana

According to this information, Marzullo reportedly

has been able to convince Glancana he is more valuable as an

Alderman and he supposedly will sonin in that office and

another person will be designated to replace Libonati, who

continues in disfavor with Glancana.

The Chicago Office has also learned that John

D'Arco, former Alderman of the First Ward in Chicago, who

was deposed by Giancana in the last election, has been able

to re-establish himself in the good graces of Giancana and

will retain his position as Democratic Committeeman of the

First Vard. V

weird ta thia rose to al any further ratters ol saberen

1 - The Deputy Attorney Generdi

• Herbert

So Miller,

Tr.

Assistant Attorney General

ALL INFORIIATION CONTAINED

HERE

DATE 82418 S85213

Burg

The above information

furnished by CG 6498,

guwas

corroborated

by information received through

6576-0*. 1/:

petty

DEL ST

Mime wien

on

ont

chan

hrad

Loach

Room

HES 6:

RECA D3

220CT 25

1963

MAIL ROOME

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32310007

Page 2

---

