# docid-32293953

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5/4/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10212-10229

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

100-339235-1ST NR 369

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, BS

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/07/1971

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SHF, ASSOC, IDENTITY

" DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

issassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

NH 54464

DocId: 32293953

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

NFORMATION CONTANEN

STFIED

SAGE

NONEIN

DIRECTOR, FBI

1/7/71

SAC, BOSTON (105-18742) (RUC)

RITA PHIPPS

IS - CH

(ENU) LIE (PH) RES

IS - CH

- 13/1/94

Classified

SUSAN HEILIGMAN FRANK

IS -CH

DORA TONS (S1

"IS - CH

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 Su0/GCL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X_@)(6

(57K1 7/6/98

Re Buairtel to NY, 11/13/70.

Enclosed for the Bureau are six copies

of a letterhead memorandum captioned DORA TONg;

Mr. TONG (possibly Tang Ying-shen) "](s)

The sources referred to in the enclosed

memorandum, who were contacted by SA JACK W.

SULLIVAN, are identified below.

Those connected

with-institutiong of leaming at Amherst, Mass.,

are established sources of the Boston Office:

ROBURL A. GARSIKA P

Ass't Personnel Director,

University of Mass.; LE DANIEL SCHWARTZ, Campus

Police, University of Massachusetts; Prof. TSUAN

HUA LONG, Environmental Engineering Department,

University of Mass

; ROBERT WARD, Dean of Students,

Amherst College; MICHARD SHERBURNE, Chief, Campus

Police, Amherst college; VAN HALSEY, Director oi

Admissions, Harpshite College; Mrs.

BEATRICE MONGRON,

Credit Bureau oS /Greater Northampton, Norchampton,

Mass.

covering Amherst, Mass.) ; Chief of Police

FRANK

HA

herst, Mass. PD

fENCLOSURE

100-3392351

IRATES

NOT RECORDED

50

JAN 1 3 1971

- Bureau (Enc.6) (RM)

1.

_bOSTOn

•1A 44S51971

(3)

NW 54464 DooId: 32293953 Page 2

---

## Page 3

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Boston, Massachusetts

January 7, 1971

DORA TONG;

Mr. TONG (Possibly Tang Ying-shen) (S)

During the period November 30 through

December 31, 1970, sources, who have furnished

reliable information in the past and are familiar

with Chinese individuals in the Amherst, Massachusetts,

area, particularly those connected with the

University of Massachusetts, Amherst College and

Hampsnire College (al located at Amherst, Massachu-

setts advised thatsthey did not know & ora long,

a Mr. Tong or a Tang Ying-shen. SThese sources

aivised that they could identify no such persons,

or persons with similar names, who were associated

with any of the aforementioned

educational institutions,

either as students or faculty members.

This document contains neither

recommendations nor conclusions of the Federal

Bureau of Investigation. It is the property,of

the Federal bureau of Investigation and is loaned

to your agency; it and its contents are not to

be distributed outside your agency.

GLASSIE

DECLA

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN ZO UNCLASSICTED

EXCERE EROR& SAOUN

OTHE

21X68

1\7698

181/94

Classified by

Destasshiv on• MADR

SUMA/GOL

SERI

100-339235-

ENCLOSURE

E

NH 54464

DocId: 32293953

Page 3

---

## Page 4

FD-323 (Rev. 11-29-61)

UN

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

ED STATES DEPARTMENT OF STICE

FEDERAL BUKEAU OF INVESTIGATION

Boston, Massachusetts

January 1, 1971

TItle

DORA TONG;

DO 1O0d (possibly Jang Ying-shen) (5)

Character

Reference

Boston memorandum dated and

captioned as above.

All sources (except any listed below) whose identities

are concealed in referenced communi a ion have furnished reliable

information in the past.

of the

The document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property

your agency.

FBi and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside

174 54464

DooId: 32293953 Page 4

---

