# docid-32404342

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10331-10213

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJFILES -CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

MOSKOWITZ. D/CONGRESSIONAL AFFAIRS

TITLE :

MEMO: RELEASE OF SEQUESTERED JFK DOCUMENTS

09/25/1992

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection

Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

Case#:NU 53217 Date: 06-22-2017

SUBJECTS : JEK. ASSASSINATION

SEQUEST DOCS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART

PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 04/30/03

COMMENTS : JFK-M-16 : F9 :

2000.02.09.14:35:20:373044 : DUPLICATE

[R]

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10331-10213

NW 53217

DocId: 32404342

Page

• 1

---

## Page 2

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS

RELEASE IN FULL

2000

2:5 SEP 1992

OCA 3039-92

MEMORANDUM FOR:

VIA:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Director of Central Intelligence

Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

Executive

Director

Stanley M. Moskowitz

Director of Congressional Affairs

Release of Sequestered JFK Documents

Attached for your signature is a letter to Speaker

Foley requesting permission to release to the Archivist JFK

assassination records that have been segregated in CIA since

the late 1970's pursuant to an

agreement with the House

Select Committee on Assassinations.

Under that agreement,

these records were to remain segregated until 2007 unless

the DCI and the House agreed otherwise.

We have been

advised by the Speaker's special assistant that the Speaker

will respond favorably to our request.

The Agency will

begin sending CIA records within the segregated collection

to the National Archives upon receiving Foley's written

response.

Stanley M.

Moskowitz

Attachment

MH 53217

DocId: 32404342

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Central Intelligence Agency

Mashington D C 2OSOS

OCA 3039-92/1

30 September

1992

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley

Sashed on the Housed Representatives

Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Speaker:

As part of the Historical Review Program and in

anticipation of the passage of the Assassination Materials

Disclosure Act of 1992, the Central Intelligence Agency

(CIA) has declassified

and is sending records related to the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy to the National

Archives.

We have already cleared approximately 35,000

pages of

documents for transfer to the Archives.

To help us

in this process, we seek the agreement of the House of

Representatives

to release CIA records that are part of

segregated document collection established by agreement

between CIA and the

House Select Committee on Assassinations

(HSCA) •

In August 1977, Director of Central Intelligence

Stansfield Turner and the HSCA agreed in a Memorandum of

Understanding to create, upon termination of the HSCA,

a segregated and secure collection of all Agency documents

seated are dese my unope.

reviewed by the Committee.

The documents

segregated within CIA for 30 years unless the DCI and the

House of Representatives agreed to a shorter period of time.

In early 1978, the HSCA and the DCI revised the MOU to

provide that only those documents designated by the

HSCA--not all documents reviewed by the Committee--would

be placed in this collection.

collection in accordance with the MOU, as modified.

evered establis med tied.

We established the secure

I know that you share with me the commitment to

declassify and publicly disclose as many government docu-

ments as possible related to

the assassination of President

Kennedy.

The House, by passing the Assassination Materials

Disclosure Act, has also gone on record in supporting the

1# 53217

DocId: 32404342

Page

3

---

## Page 4

The Honorable Thomas S. Foley

release of such documents.

Your consent, on behalf of the

House, to the immediate release of CIA records within the

segregated collection will enable the Agency to make Its

records available to the National Archives as expeditiously

as possible.

incerely,

Director of Central Intelligence

CC :

Minority Leader, House of Representatives

Chairman, House

Permanent Select

Committee on

Intelligence

Ranking Republican Member, House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence

2

HW 53217

DocId: 32404342

Page

---

## Page 5

SUBJECT:

Release of Sequestered JFK Documents;

Letter to The Honorable Thomas

Foley

OCA/LEG/DZinn: gh/x37913

OCA 3039-92; OCA

• 3039-92/1

Distribution:

Original - Addressee

1

-DCI

1 - DDCI

1 -

ER

DDI

-

D/CSI

1

C/LD/OGC

D/OCA

1

1

1

1

- OCA Record

LEG Subject

File

LEG Signer File

- Soft File

September 1992)

3

HH 53217

DocId: 32404342

Pane

5

---

