# docid-32147190

## Page 1

8/26/2014

National Archives and Records Administration

JFK Full Results

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Back to Brief Results

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

Back to Search

Viewing/Ordering Information

Exit JFK

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER

124-10081-10142

RECORDS SERIES

: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:44-24016-2049

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : FBI

FROM

: SAC, HO

TO : DIRECTOR,

FBI

TITLE : [No Title]

DATE : 09/25/1964

PAGES

: 2

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS : JR, BKG

CLASSIFICATION : UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LASI REVIEW

: 04/02/1996

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

wehmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (fRev, 10-29-63)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

9/25/64

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority)

TO :

FROM:

SUBJECTV

RECTOR, FBI (44-24016)

SAC

HOUSTON (44-939) (P)

JACK L. RUBI, Aka.;

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, Aka. -

VICTIM

CR

(00: DALLAS)

Re: Houston airtel to Bureau dated 9/24/64.

Enclosed for Dallas are 25 copies each of the

following items:

FD-302 re interview of HAZEL KINGCAID, Operator

of Desert Room Lounge,

Houston, Texas

D-302 re interview of PETE FLORES:

FD-302 re interview of PAUL POLO GUERRERO;

FD-302 re interview of MARTIN RIZO, Aka., MARTY

RIZO, RACHAEL RIZO;

Insert reporting miscellaneous investigation at

Houston conducted 9/21,22/64.

It is to be noted that HO 1138-C (Protect Identity),

bartender, Desert Room Lounge, Houston, from 1958 to 1961,

advised on 9/21/64 he never knew of JACK RUBY ever having

been in the Desert Room Lounge nor had he ever heard of

RUBY's having been there.

He did not recall JAMES J.

KNEIDING or WAYNE CRAVEN. He informed that MARTY RUIZ, Aka.,

-RACHAEL RUIZ, is probably identical with MARTY RIZO, Aka.,

RACHAEL RIZO. He further noted that

"PAUL" is probably

identical with PAUL GUERRERO and that "PETE" is probably

identical with PETE FLORER:

CI stated these three were

REC- 52

Bureau (AM)

- Dallas

(44-1639) (Encls. 125) (A)

2

- Houston

44-24016-2147

3 SEP 28 1964

(7)

Approved:

Sent

_ -M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

19153

MogId: 321171990 Page 2

COTOCAT

---

## Page 3

HO 44-939

frequently in the Desert Room Lounge together. On 9/22/64,

HO 1138-C furnished the

whereabouts of RIZO and FLORES in

Houston, Texas.

On 9/21/64, PCI E

(Protect Identity), advised that PAUL GUERRERO resides

at

310 Crosstimbers, Houston, Texas, and is a hairdresser at

Gulfgate Beauty Salon, Houston.

OTHER 4

WW 11153

DocId: 32147190

Page 3

-

---

