# docid-32292602

## Page 1

' Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10209-10378

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3182-1218

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

ROEMER, WILLIAM F.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

08/18/1968

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

GAL, TRA, RES, ACT, EMP, OC, ASSOC, ATTORNEYS, PAL,

SWISS BAN, APPEAL, DENIED

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

05/13/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

472

DocId: 32292602

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of T992 (44 USC 210T note).

DATE: 311-14-2017

CG 92-373

Source

T -2

HOWARD DINSMORE,

Doorman,

1150 Lake Shore

Drive

Chicago, Illinois

T- 3

CG 6614-0

T-4

PCI RUDY DROZD

Date Contacted

August 6, 1968

Contacting Agent

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

on numerous occasions

during

July and

August, 1968

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

August 6, 1968

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER

B*-

COVER PAGE

908-10318

DocId: 32292602 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John T. "kennedy Assassination Records COlTection Act Of 1992 (4T USC 2107 Nöte).

- DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 92-373

departure that he intended to travel to Spain.

The

Spanish National Police in Madrid, Spain was alerted

on June 11, 1968, regarding ALEX's purposed visit to

roarine e

Spain and data concerning the background of ALEX was

furnished to them.

However,

at no time was the Spanish

Mational Police able to develop any information in-

dicating that ALEX was in Spain during June and July,

1968.

IV. MISCELLANEOUS

CG T-1

advised that one of the first

items of business of ALEX upon his return to Chicago

on July 23, 1968, was to arbitrate differences which

had arisen

during his absence between Chicago attorney

GEORGE BIEBER and ALEX's associate in organized crime,

FELIX

"Milwaukee Phil"

ALDERISIO.

The informant

noted that BIEBER fears that he is about to be

prosecuted by the United States Attorney's Office

and that ALDERISIO in return for a monetary con-

sideration guaranteed to BIEBER that he would not

be prosecuted.

The informant was unable to furnish

any information or further detals indicating

the

methods to be employed by ALDERISIO in his protection

Of BIEBER in this regard.

Information has been received from the

Swiss Federal Aliens Police on July 9, 1968, that

/ ALEX's appeal for a revocation of the

WSwiss

En try

Ban against him had recently been denied and

that

ALEX had no further recourse to have this ban

canceled. It is noted that the Swiss Government

banned ALEX from entry of Switzerland

for ten years

approximately three years ago.

Since

that time

ALEX has made several efforts to have this entry

ban against him lifted.

-4*-

92-3182-1218

504-10318

DocId: 32292602 Page 3

---

