# docid-32341856

## Page 1

HRGRetestwncopy

osw 2,V1

Assassination Records Review Board

Final Determination Notification

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10017-10002

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 201-289248

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

06-06-2017

September 9, 1996

Status of Document: Postponed in Part

Number of releases of previously postponed information: 3

Reason for Board Action: The Review Board's decision was premised on several factors

including: (a) the significant historical interest in the document in question; (b) the

absence of evidence that the release of the information would cause harm to the United

States or to any individual..

Number of Postponements: 5

Postponement # 1 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: True Name

Review Date: 12/1996

Postponement # 2 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: True Name

Review Date: 12/1996

Postponement # 3 (Page 1):

HH 53199

DocId: 32341856 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: True Name

Review Date: 12/1996

Postponement # 4 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act. The Board is awaiting additional

evidence from the CIA, at which time it will reconsider the postponement.

Substitute Language: True Name

Review Date: 12/1996

Postponement # 5 (Page 1):

Reason for Board Action: The text is redacted because it reveals the identity of an intelligence agent that

properly may be withheld under Section 6(1)(A) of the JFK Act.

Substitute Language: The information is the true name of the individual whose pseudonym is John Scelso.

The postponed information will be opened in full on either May 1, 2001, or three months after the decease

of the individual, whichever occurs first.

Release Date: 05/2001

Board Review Completed: 07/09/96

HH 53199

DocId:32341856

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Date:

Page:

08/09/96

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

_-----------__---

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10017-10002

JFK

201-289248

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

CIA

O'NEAL, BIRCH, C/CI/SIG

MEMO FOR THE

RECORD

FBI REQUESTS POLYGRAPH OF ALVARADO.

12/03/63

2

POLYGRAPH

ALVARADO UGARTE

DOCUMENT

TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

12/06/93

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

OSW2: V1 1993.12.06.12:43:02:280005: ONE PAGE OF 104-10017-10001 WAS

INADVERTENTLY ATTACHED TO THIS DOCUMENT.

THIS ERROR HAS BEEN

RECTIFIED.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

33199

Do01d:32341856

Page

---

## Page 4

UNCLASSIFIES:

RNAL

ONLY

CONFE

NTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: CERAIRS

2B23

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

building)

6

MAR 197*

IP/AN

3.

DATE

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

NO

DATE

XA E - 807

3 Rec 63

OFFICER':

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.

Draw a line across column after each comment.)

→ Please assegi

XAED and

clants t

801-289248

Pends ALVARADO

5.

IP/ 502

7.

? IP/Files

ath: Pois Miller.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Document Number

287-690

for FOlA Review on

MAY 1976

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

CONDUCTED ON? 4 MAY 1976

_ IMPDET CL BY 0/2208

USE PREVIOUS

• CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 5

SLUN

XAE - 807

3 December 1963

NEVORANDU! FOR THE KOCORD

SUBJECT: Lee Harvey OSHALD

Roquests polygrap

ALUAPADO

At 2010 hours on 3 December, Mr. Papich of the FBI advised thet the

Bureau had received a cable lage nient iron the regar attache ir

mexico city tho is in touch with our representative there. He stated

thatour representative had beon informed by Captain theelock of the

Nicaraguan Intelligence Service that ALVARADO told bin, Waeelock, that

he recanted his original story because of fear of physical harm; that

Alvarado vas being deported from Mexico to Nicaragua on 4 December 1963)

and would be accompanted by Heclock; that wheelock assured our repre-

sentative that Alvarado would be avallable for further interviev in

Nicaragus 1t the United States destred.

- Mr. Papich stated that the Bureau vould like to have him subjectea

to a polygrape examination by this Agency and would appreciate receiving

word as soon as possible as to whether we will handle the matter since

18 we will not handle it the FBI vill have to determine what other steps

might be teken to see that this is done. I advised Mr. Papich that I

would check into the matter, that I did not know whether ve had avarlable

at this time a polygraph operator who could properly bentle this matter

but in any event I vould let him know whether this can be done

Dommend Humber

287-610

F/94

BAY 1976

Birch D: O'Neal

Chief, CI/SIG

156/080

IP/TILES

NOSTRACT

Mark

PREACE TEA FORING

raid

(oc 10: 763391

WHEN REST. 54S

CARLE DEN (CUE

FOR FILIPIG•

SEX:M

/ co:

My. Whitten

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW:

V24 MAY 1976

CONDUCTED ON:

-IMPDET CUBY 0/2208.

RECORD COPY

3 DEC63

201-289248

NN 53199' DocId: 32341856 Page 5

---

