# docid-32136893

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Releazed under

the John F.

kennedy Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992 144 USC

£ 107 Notel .

Case#:NT 54046

Date: 08-23-2017

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_ NUMBER: 124-10054-10410

RECORD_ SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

62-109060-5483

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR. FBI

TO: AG

TITLE:

DATE: 07/06/1967

PAGES: 1

SUBJECT:

GARRISON, JIM, INVESTIGATION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

11/06/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/19/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 54046 DocId:32136893 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MAILED 21

1967

JUL G

Tolson

Pellouch

Kick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Rosen

Sullivan

vel

fels. 700m

1

= Mr.

DeLoach

1

- Mr. Wick

The Attorney General

July 6, 1967

REC 48

Director, FBIll 111116,61-548 2

1

1

-

Mr.

Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Branigan

Mx.. Lenihan

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY..

NOVEMBER 22, 1963,

DALLAS, TEXAS

COMM-FBI

Enclosed is a memorandun containing information

relating to Perry Russo and Sandra Moifatt McMaines #họ

have figured in the assassination investigation of District

Attorney

James C. Garrison in New Orleans.

This information was furnished by a source who

urged that under no circumstances should his identity be

divulged and requested extreme caution be exercised in any

use of the information in order not to violate the confi

dential relationship between the source and those individ-

uals mentioned or referred to in the enclosed memorandum.

Enclosure

62-109060

1 - Mr. Carl Eardley (Enclosure)

Acting Assistant Attorney General

1 - Mr. Fred M. Vinson, JI. (Enclosure)

Assistant Attorney General

1 - Mr. J. Walter Yeagley (Inclosure)

Assistant Attorney General

NACLOSURL

BST: jmk7-27

(12)

See memorandum Branigan

caption, prefared by BST:as: rwf.

to Sullivan, dated 7/5/67,

same

NOTE: source of

information in

enclosed letterhead

memorandum' is potential confidential informant Leonard Harrelson

of oufy Chicago Office. Harrelsop is a polygraph examiner,

both he and his source, whose

and

trained at the Keeler Polberabh

Identity he did not furnish, were

memorandum was prepared at the Bureau inasma, Chicago.

pecause of the sensitive afd

and the pol's value to the Chicagodon

as Chicago, office,

de, arent the information

furnish the

information in form suitable for dissemination but

only for Bureau's information.

furnished it

51 JULY 1965 TYPE UNT

HH 54046

DocId: 32136893

Page 2

---

