# docid-32292876

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/11/201

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10152

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-324

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, TP

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

09/20/1961

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

LST, ASSOC, MISUR, ADMIN, ENTRY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

Redact

. 05/04/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC A/T

v9.1

DocId: 32292876 Page 1

22

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy.

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Яредв

FBI

Date:

9/20/61

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (66-231)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

ANTIRACKETEERING

TAMPA

JUNE

safet

Retelcall to Section Chief THOMAS J. MCANDREWS this

date, to secure authority to survey home of JOE R./DIEZ, Tampa,

for possible misur installation. Authority granted and

survey

made this date.

The DIEZ home is presently in the final stages of

construction, not yet occupied, and is situated in a tract

of land of approximately 75 acres.

The house is close to

the Hillsborough River with the major portion of the land

lying between the house and the only public road in the area.

The land is fenced inand the house can be reached only by a

long narrow sand road large enough for only one car at a time.

Access can be more easily had from the river side by boat.

The house itself is a large expensive two-bedroom

home of concrete block construction.

It has a two-car garage

and what appears to be a 10'x 10' vault with no windows and

with all walls of at least eight inches thickness. The vault

doorway is not finished but has heavy half-inch boards extending.

from the wall around the doorway as though to hold some heavy

type of closing device.

The vault is air-conditioned, heated

by a ceiling-type heater, and has a telephone outlet.

The house has telephone wire installed and telephone

outzets apparent in many places in the house, ys1n5, tbr99-w1rg 24

Bureau (RM)

1 Tampa

JRB: KH

(4)

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

DoCId: 32292876

Page 2

Sent

ALL INTORHATION CONTAINED (JAK)

CHARIS UNGLASSINE

ATE S/3/95 FY 5668SED /GAL

_M

Per

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Nöte).

DATE: 11-14-2017

TP 66-231

cable.

The telephone lines do not approach the house at this

time and it is assumed that the electrical poles will be used

to carry the telephone wires due to the length of line needed.

There are two three-pair beige telephone cables extending out

of the house near the electrical cable entry, indicating

possibly two telephones will be installed unless some type

of alarm system is contemplated.

The house has a complete intercom system of the

type using a radio receiver.

Electrical service has been

run into the house through the construction of a new line.

It is contemplated that two microphones will be

installed, if possible,

one to cover the vault area and one

to/ cover the aréa of

the small bar located in the living room.

The MITE or MOUSE units will be used and this will be done

prior to occupancy by the DIEZ family.

The family has already

moved in some personal belongings, and from the progress of

the construction it is presumed they could move in completely

within the next week or two.

The survey indicates that misur

coverage can be instituted with full security and an FD-142

will be submitted requesting authority to install.

The locks on the house are National "EZ-Set" locks

and the Bureau is requested to immediately forward to Tampa

any master or skeleton=type keys that might be of assistance

in opening these locks.

N2' DESI OL IO2JICE

256 53

1 50 6W 91

SECE ABD-EAWWE

- 2-

NEGOD - ENCILINE

DocId: 32292876

Page 3

---

