# docid-32308981

## Page 1

DATE: 11-14-2017

Rennety 4ssassinat100 Records COllection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/20/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10297-10108

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-1ST NR 2620

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/17/1969

PAGES:

10

SUBJECTS:

LCN, MEMBERS, CRIMINAL ACT, LEADERSHIP, STRUCTURE

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DocId: 32308981 Page 1

36

---

## Page 2

Leleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: - 11-14-2017

FBI

Date:

3/17/69

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (137-20313)

FROM:

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (137-5207) (P)

RE:

SF 3208-C-TE

TECIP

ReSFtels, 3/10,14/69.

On 3/7/69, SF 3208-C-TE advised SAs KENT Q. BRISBY &

RICHARD T. BRETZING that a man known to him as "FREDDY Red Shirt"

was with PATSY ERA in Miami, Florida.

FREDDY was a member of

La Cosa Nostra (LCN) in the

Genovese Family.

He used to be big

In narcotics, but went into bookmaking when the ruling against

narcotics came out from the Commissione.

The Informant advised

he met FREDDY in 1945-56. He added that he met PATSY ERA in 1941

in Sing Sing Prison.

ERA was made a ICN member after WwII,

when the books were

opened and a large influx of members took

place.

The Informant mentioned hearing on the radio about

a large roundup of LCN figures in Miami, Florida, this past week.

He said he has never heard of any of the names mentioned on the

air.

He said it would not be unusual for the new "boss" of the

GENOVESE family to be chosen in a meeting in Miami, but he added

Bureau

(RM)

(3- 92-6054)

(2- 137-20313)

1 - Kansas City (92-883) (Info) (RM)

1 - Newark: (92-1203) (Info) (RM)

1 - Miami (92-853) (Info) (RM)

2 - New York

(137-new) (RM)

2 - San Francisco

(1 - 92-1661)

RTB: ay

(12)

NOT RECORDED

178 APR 3 1969

CARBON COPY

Approved:

58 APR 141966ial Agant in Charge

Sent

_M

Per

ORIGINAL FILED IN

DocId: 32308981 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mensen

DATE: 11-14-2017

THe 1O

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot

SF 137-5207

RTB: ay

it would be very unusual for Kansas City people to be involved

as the radio indicated they were.

He acknowledged that the

Chicago family pulls a lot of weight, but he did not believe

this to be true of the Kansas City family.

The Informant said

Thompson

in Manhattan. He described this place as very small

and said it was used frequently for high level ICN meetings and

to make new members. It is allegedly owned by the father of

THOMAS EBOLI, aka Tommy Ryan, "acting boss" of the Genovese

family.

The Informant advised that TONY PLATE (phonetic) is

a member of the LCN, but he did not know which family.

He described

PLATE a's white, male, Italian, 53 years of age, 5' 9"

• 180 lbs.,

black hair, wears glasses.

He said PLATE runs

a bar on McLean

Avenue in Yonkers, N.Y.,

toward the Broadway end of the street.

He is involved in

shylocking, bookmaking, and has an interest in

a milk company in New York City.

According to the Informant, PLATE

tried to get into the LCN under "BENNY the Bum" DE MARTINO, but

did not make it.

He was

eventually made under another "regime"

possibly in a separate "family."

SF 3208-C-TE advised that there is an emphasis in the LCN

in New York toward penetrating legitimate businesses.

He said

many legitimate businessmen want to have LN support

because

of some apparent advantages, including obtaining a better

market because of the pressures brought to bear by the ICN

ing to the Informant, a legitimate vending machine businessman

he could expand his routes and customers by two or three times:

simply because of the intimidation which the LCN figure could

bring upon the customers. Other businessmen lose control of

of shylock indebtedness. The Informant

identified the liquor store on 78th Street, between Ist and 2nd

Avenues, New York City, as an example of an LCN-owned enterprise.

The Informant advised that many of the LCN members

made after WW II never did get fully embroiled in the rackets

and many are now legitimate working people.

He added that they

are still subject to the discipline

of their family"boss" and

their "capo decina."

If their services are needed, they must

2

DocId:32308981 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Not

DATE:. 11-14-2017

SF 137-5207

RTB: aY

respond or be killed themselves.

The Informant said these

men are frequently used to get into positions of influence

in businesses and unions and then use this influence for the LCN.

The Informant cited an example of this by naming (FNU)

CICCIALINNI (phonetic), a foreman of the Sicilian Asphalt Company,

New York City. He is also an official in the labor union covering

that activity. According to the Informant, CICCIALINNI is a

"sleeper" member of the GENOVESE family, and may be a lieutenant

"capo." The Informant met CICCIALINNI ten years ago, being

introduced to him by TADO DE MARCO in CICCIALINNI's house in

Brooklyn. The Informant described CICCIALINNI as "ice cold,"

extremely quiet, and a "mean s.O.B."

He said CICCIALINNI is a

"hit man" used only for very important killings and he said

CICCIALINNI is very thorough in his assignments.

The Informant

was unaware of CICCIALINNI ever being arrested before.

He said

CICCIALINNI is not known to many ICN members as a member himself.

He described CICCIALINNI as white, male, Italian, in his 60s,

stocky build, 5'7", appearing many years younger than he is,

greying hair dyed black.

The Informant said TADO DE MARCO could be referred to

a "sleeper" also.

He is influential in the GENOVESE family

and is frequently used to handle big assignments. The Informant

added

that DE MARCO very seldom goes along on an assignment,

especially a

"hit," but generally handles the delegation of

assignment and the follow-up.

DE MARCO owns a trucking firm in

Tunisia and has a brother running it for him there. He also

has extensive property in Sicily and owns some homes and apartment

houses in the Bronx, New York area.

However, DE MARCO himself

lives very modestly and is reluctant to show his possession

of wealth.

He even requires his wife to work for one of the

biscuit companies in Long Island City by the 59th Street Bridge.

DE MARCO assertedly sold a 32-unit apartment house recently in

the Bronx.

The Informant said DE MARCO holds meetings in a liquor

store on 2nd Ave., between 105th and 106th Streets, on the west

side of the street about two doors off of 106th Street.

He last

lived on 3rd Ave. between 116th and 117th Streets, on the east

side of the street next to a real estate company, two stories

above a TV Store.

3

DocId: 32308981 Page 4

---

## Page 5

HEnNeNy ASSa551nat10n Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Ho

DATE: 11-14-2017

SF 137-5207

RTB: ay

The Informant said the same year he was admitted to

the LUCHESE

family, about 1958, a split-up occurred in part

of GENOVESE's family, with three men getting a "piece of the

action."

TADO DEL took over a "regime" in Brooklyn, N.Y., PETE

crop, „got a group, and MIKE MIRANDA retained the "cream of the

Not long after this, MIRANDA became a "consiglieri"

in the GENOVESE family.

MIKE maintains his office on the

Southwest corner of Kenmare and Lafayette in New York City.

Diagonally across the intersection on the Northeast corner is

the New York City PD Headquarters for burglary. MIKE used this

spot for meetings frequently.

SF 3208-C-TE identified another "sleeper" member of

the ICN 'is DOMINIC (LNU) , aka

"Fat Dom."

DOMINIC is about 48-50

years of age, 5'8", 220 lbs., heavy build. He owns and operates

a string of private cabs in New York City.

The Informant said

DOMINIC is a sloppy dresser and dirty.

DOMINIC's brother, SALLY

(true name believed to be SALVATORE), is also a LCN member.

SALLY

is about 56 years of age, 5'8", 175-180, brown hair combed straight

back.

He is operating as a bookmaker.

1 1/2 years ago, DOMINIC ran his business out of an office on

Воине тал к bethes:

The Informant advised that

Westchester Ave

by Castlehill Ave in New York City.

However, he

has subsequently moved locations and the Informant does not know

where he is presently located.

SALLY used to use DOMINIC's office

at the cab company as his

bookmaking headquarters.

The Informant advised he is unaware of an arrest

record

for either of the brothers.

He could not recall which families

they belonged to, but he said they were originally pointed out to

him as LCN members by TADO DE MARCO. He added that their membership

was not generally known.

The Informant identified still another "sleeper" member

of the ICN as the undertaker who owned themortuary located on 109th

Street between lst and 2nd Avenues on the north side of the street.

This person owns another mortuary in the Bronx.

The Informant

recalled this person belonging to the GAMBINO family, but he could

not remember his name.

His main purpose was to bail other members

out of jail and he was not used for illegal purposes.

The Informant

said JOHNNY ANG pointed this person out to him and identified him

as a member.

4

DocId: 32308981 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot

DATE:. 11-14-2017

SP 137-5207

RTIS: aY

In regard to the Roman Catholic priests who were

allegedly members of the LCN in New York, the Informant said

"BENNY the Bum" DE MARTINO made a statement that there were

"quite a few priests that are with us."

The Informant said

he questioned

BENNY as to whether he actually meant they were

members, and BENNY replied in the affirmative.

le said the

specifying

in what capacity they were used on these "hits."

At no time

did BENNY divulge the identities of these priests and the

Informant said it would have been improper for him to ask.

The Informant mentioned that ALBERT ANASTASIA'S brother is a

Catholic Priest, but he said he did not know any derogatory

information about him.

The Informant mentioned JIMMY NAP (phonetic) as a

ICN member who runs a cabaret in Jersey City, N.J., two blocks

from 7th and Central.

NAP assertedly hid SONNY FRANCHEESI (ph)

from the authorities

for a while after FRANCHEESI pulled a bank

robbery. FRANCHEESI was hidden out in Brooklyn in the apartment

used at the time by JIMMY as a residence. FRANCHEESI, who the

Informant also identified as a LCN member, was finally arrested

by the

FBI on bank robbery charges.

SF 3208-C TE stated that one (FNU) @LANDRIA (ph), a

New York State Assemblyman from the Bronx, is a close friend

of

BENNY DE MARTINEO.. CALANDRIA is related to AL MINIACCI, the

owner of the Paramount Vending Company, and BENNY DE MARTINO

has told the informant in the past that CALANDRIA is "in my

pocket." The Informant said BENNY reserves the right to deal

with CALANDRIA personally and is guarded over this relationship

and what actually transpires between them. The Informant said

BENNY has made sizeable contributions to CALANDRIA's political

funds.

which was operated outside of Palisades, New Jersey, between

pratal menta called

The Informant recalled a large gambling establishment

1945-1947. This was ICN run and one PETEY MUGGINS (ph) was

usually at the door to the place searching those who entered.

PETEY was a member of what is now the GENOVESE family at the time.

The Informant said he was personally in this establishment on a

number of occasions and had Mayor HAGUE of Jersey City pointed

out to him as a patron:

5

DocId:32308981 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Not

DATE:. 11-14-2017

SF 137-5207

RTB: ay

Pn 3/12/69, SF 3208-C-TE was contacted

again by SAs

KENT Q. BRISBY and RICHARD T. BRETZING, for the purpose of

showing some photographs of hoodlums in the New York area.

No effort was made to show him all of the photos which the New

York Office sent in this meeting, inasmuch as it has been

noticed in the past that the Informant gets restless and tired

after a number of photographs have been displayed to him, and he

is more prone to dismiss photographs as unfamiliar without closely

examining them when he is in that frame of mind.

It should be

borne in mind that the Informant has poor eyesight for reading

and for distinguishing fine features close up and has, in the

past, exhibited a poor recognition power of associates known

to him, particularly if the photographs of these people shown to him

are not completely clear.

The group of photographs taken during a photographic

surveillance in New York were initially shown to the Informant.

The four poses of CHARLES GIAMPAOLO, aka Charlie the Baker, failed

to elicit any response of recognition from the Informant. He

indicated this person did not even look familiar to him. A

aphotograph of a single male individual standing in front of

parking meter and by two building pillars appeared to the Informant

to be of one PHIL BRUNO, a numbers operator out of 145th Street &

Brook Ave., where he operates a couple of bars. The Informant

said he last knew BRUNO to be a "recruit" for membership in the

new be operates a sc

LCN and has not heard whether he was

ever made or not.

In addition

to numbers, BRUNO also operates some jukeboxes.

He is known to

nany as "PHILLY from the Bronx,"

is from Morris Avenue.

The

Informant said the background in the photo appeared to be 150th

Street and Morris Ave., next to the barbershop.

The Informant said BRUNO was partners with JOEY FUSCO (ph)

in the numbers operation. FUSCO was not known as a member to the

Informant and was last known by him to be running a grocery store

on either 150th or 15lst Streets, between Morris Avenue and Park

Avenue, Bronx, New York.

The Informant said BRUNO was also aligned

with his cousin, NICKY BRUNO, aka Baldy, until five years ago, when

NICKY was gunned down in his car and killed.

Now NICKY's brother

is closely operating with

• PHIL BRUNO. The Informant said PHIL BRUNO's

brother was the person he had previously identified as RUMMY DALE,

who runs numbers out of a bar on the Southeast corner of 150th St.

and Morris Ave.

The Informant said most of PHIL BRUNO's numbers

men are of Spanish or Puerto Rican descent.

6

DocId: 32308981 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Not

DATE: - 11-14-2017

SF 137-5207

RTB: at

Other photos from the surveillance in New York

which the Informant recognized included one of RUMMY DALE,

taken after he had an operation on his eyes, according to

the Informant. DALE used to wear glasses prior to the

operation.

The Informant said the location of this photograph

appeared to be outside a club on Morris Avenue between 150th

Street and 151st Street.

Another of these photographs appeared

similar to BLACKIE BOVIE (ph), who the Informant said was in

jukeboxes and shylocking.

BLACKIE is not known to the Informant

as a LCN member.

He used to live at 117th Street and 2nd Ave.,

but moved to 116th St. between lst and 2nd Avenues, Manhattan.

BLACKIE was known to the Informant as a "recruit" in the COLOMBO

family.

The Informant said BLACKIE's brother, MIKE BOVIE (ph),

is a member of the COLOMBO family, having been made in 1957.

He is a bartender by trade. The

Informant said he personally

disliked both BOVIE brothers and did not know any details

about their operations or activities.

The Informant was visibly agitated with himself

over not being able to recognize a photograph of FLORINDA ISABELLA,

which he

said was very familiar.

The name of ISABELLA did not

prompt his memory, but he said he probably knew him by a nickname.

This photograph will be redisplayed at a future meeting to

prompt his memory.

The Informant was shown a photo which appeared blurry

and

indistinct and he said it appeared to be of either ANGELO

HOOKS, aka

"Cockeyed Ang" or JOE HOOKS, his brother.

a shylock, bookmaker, and ICN member under BENNY DE MARTINO.. H

hangs out

at a bar on 151st or 152nd Streets and Morris Ave., on

the Southwest corner, which is owned by JOE HOOKS, FAT FERRARA,

CHINK (LNU) and SAL DIANO, all IN members previously mentioned

by the Informant.

The Informant advised that the following photographs

were not familiar to him:

PETER VINCINI

RALPH PRISCIO

ERMIGLIA RIZZO

WILLIAM GOEDEL

GUY RUSSO (very old photograph)

VINCENZO PUCCIARIELLO

DocId: 32308981 Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot

DATE: 11-14-2017

SP 237-5207

RTI: ay

The Informant was displayed a photograph of

ALFRED LICARI and immediately identified him as (FNU)

CICCIALINNI, the "sleeper hit man" hehad mentioned on 3/7/69.

However, after gazing at the photograph he became less positive

(the photograph is dated 1943), but he still believes it to be

CICCIALINNI.

The Informant identified a photograph of JOHN ANGELONE

as being identical to JOHNNY ANG, LCN member of the GAMBINO

family and a hi-jacker previously mentioned by the Informant.

He stated JOHNNY's "capo" is "Papa DAVE," who hangs out at a

club on Morris Park Avenue, one block north of White Plains

Road, on the corner above a lunchenette.

The Informant was reminded of one, CARLO (LNU) aka

Sally, who hangs out at the Bay 50 Club. CARLO is a member

of the COLOMBO family and is a bookmaker and shylock.

He used

to hang out in the Seventeen-Seventeen Club, located on 17th Ave

and 86th St in Brooklyn.

The Informant said he met CARLO in

1956 and CARLO was already a member then.

1938-39.

made after WW II. POLLIZIO is with GENE HARLOW (ph),

another

GAMBINO member, who is either a lieutenant or a "capo" according

to the Informant. Both hang out in a small bar at 4th Ave and Union

in Brooklyn.

The Informant observed a photograph of WILLIAM

PILKINGTON and remarked that this person closely resembled a man

known to the Informant as STUMPY.

STUMPY is a "hit man" for

the Morris Park mob, headed by JOE HOOKS.

He is a LCN member,

but the Informant was not sure in which family. STUMPY killed

DANNY the Dip on 152nd St and Morris Ave with a pistol in 1946-47.

DANNY had been attempting to cut in on JOHNNY FUTO's "action"

and rumor had spread that a "hit" had been issued against him

by FuTo.

However, to dispel this rumor, a large 'banquet was

thrown ostensibly

to establish beyond all doubt that DANNY was

acceptable among the "boys"

and need not travel around in fear.

After the dinner, STUMPY walked out with DANNY and when they were

in the middle of the street, STUMPY shot and killed him and left

his body there in the street.

8

DocId: 32308981 Page 9

---

## Page 10

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Not

DATE: 11-14-2017

CA 1: 1017

By 8S: ANy

The Informant advised that MIKE MIRANDA. a

"consiglieri" in the GENOVESE family, controls the brick-

layers helpers union in Long Island

from the union offices

in Long Island City.

He is assisted in controlling this

union by FILIPPO LOMBARDO aka Benny Squint, and a family of

Italians with a last name similar to CHARIZOLDA (ph). This

family is referred to as the "CHERRY FAMILY."

SF 3208-C-Te advised that one of the brothers, GIGI

CHERRY, was killed about six years ago in Long Beach, Long

Island, New York, for getting out of line.

GIGI was known as

"The Squint."

lis father-in-law, DANNY HOGAN 3 true name believe

to be DANNY SCALATO (ph) ) was present when GIGI was killed

and was believed to have set the murder victim up for the killing.

SCALATO is an LCN member in BENNY SQUINT's regime.

The Informant advised that BENNY SQUINT and BOBBY

CHERRY operated the union for several years. Prior to his

knowledge of this, the Informant had made moves to cut in on

the union himself.

He had

a meeting scheduled with the unknown

union bosses at union headquarters.

When the Informant arrived

at the meeting, he found himself facing MIKE MIRANDA.

When

MIRANDA saw the Informant he reportedly laughed and asked

if this was "the guy" who was cutting in.

The Informant said

he laughed too and told MIRANDA that he had no idea that

MIRANDA was behind the union. The Informant said that no

problem arose over this confrontation, largely because of

his long-time association with MIRANDA. and the Informant

backed off from the union deal.

To the best of his knowledge,

the Informant said MIRANDA still heads this union.

LEADS

An information copy is furnished to all offices

who might have an interest in

the information contained herein.

9

DocId: 32308981

Page 10

---

## Page 11

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hot

DATE: 11-14-2017

S8 117-5207

P98: KY

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK CITY, NY.

Will continue to evaluate

the information provided by this Informant and comment as to

its accuracy and pertinence.

SAN FRANCISCO

AT SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.

Will maintain contact with

SF 3208-C-TE and keep all interested offices advised of the

information he provides.

IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT THE ABOVE INFORMATION HAS BEEN

FURNISHED ON AN EXTREMELY CONFIDENTIAL BASIS FROM AN

ADMITTED MEMBER. OF THE ICN.

CAUTION SHOULD THEREFORE BE USED

IN THE USE OF THIS INFORMATION AND NO DISSEMINATION MADE OUT-

SIDE THE BUREAU WITHOUT FIRST TAKING PROPER STEPS TO PROTECT

THE INFORMANTUS IDENTITY.

10

DocId: 32308981

Page 11

---

