# docid-32401332

## Page 1

Date: 11/29/99

Page:

1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

Released under the John

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10302-10024

JFK

CIA-DI-FILES

Case#:NW 55355 Date:

11-28-2017

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

OCO/CIA

TITLE : DRAFT OF PAPER ON INTELLIGENCE RELATIONS WITH THE LBJ

WHITE HOUSE

DATE: 00/00/

PAGES

:

30-31

SUBJECTS

:

LBJ WHITE HOUSE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

TOP SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

:

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 09/22/98

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : JFK-M-02: F2 1998.09.22.16:16:07:576120: ARRB REQUEST.

CIA-9.

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

55355

DooId: 32401332

Page

1

---

## Page 2

ROUTING

NAME AND ADDRESS

TO:

1

2

3

4

DATE INITIALS

TOP SECRET :

(Security Classification)

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

REMARKS:

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

CONTROL NO.

COPY

_OF

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO.

DATE

Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to

those approved for the following specific activities:

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions

TOP SECRET

(Security Classification)

HIH

55355

DooId: 32401332

Page

---

## Page 3

..:

TOr SECRET.

the these Era laqius.

For most amployees of the Federal government, work

continues unchanged when a new man moves into the White House.

Employees of the Bureau of Reclamation, the Labor-Management Services

Administration, or the Commodity Exchange Authority

_.......

all go about their jobs in their accustened ways, want though changes of

administration polloy con ultinately have an effect. the patter an

most intelligence work--collection and the production of finished intelligence

undisturbed.

for a considerable number of officials--remains unliated

*. But for

those who are turning out intelligence specifically for the President,

Joy an in apt to a den older secure at mete

1595, 4770

ansterset

How wide-ranging will ls the new President's

be

coreign countries and in international relationsi

interest in sargabo

at in much one get sin walt lett

be in order

appetite will de have for

and frequent serving, ar modest portions only as absolutely and!

will he want defacts, ar facts plus interpretation and analysia?

17-55355 DocId:32401332 -Page-3

---

## Page 4

2

Separated or homogenized? Is he willing to read a regular intelligence

document, or does he prefer to be briefed?

In each of the previous administtations, OCI had establhahed

a satisfactory channel directly to the President. However, the system to

had never carried over frau one incumbent to the next. Eisenhower did not

want the personal weekly briefing from the Director that Trunen had

recelved; he penseed to be broted in the dotting of weekly meetings

not

of the National Security Council. Kennedy did/like to use the NSC

with any regularity. Instead he found just what he wanted in the

Checklist

personel, daily intelligence wa devised for him five months after

he entered office.

The Checklist system worked so well with kennedy that

OCI and the Director naturally hoped to continue It with Lyndon Jojason,

especially as it becane apparent that Johnson, Like his predecessor,

was not going to have regular NSC meetings.

Eventually OCI succeeded;

but is after many months of frustration. It was only when contest.

HH-55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 4

---

## Page 5

3

he had a firm hold of his adminidtration and when certain

foreign situations forced themselves upon his attention that President

Johnson discovered the usefulness of a daily current intelligence

document.

!

President

For a fow days after the assassination of sooks Kennedy,

perratioos

R. J. Smith took the Checklist to K& McCone at East Building

at 8:30x all. The Director then held a staff meeting, after which R.J.

personally

Smith/took the Checklist to Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton in the White

The briefing of President Johnson from the Checklist, however,

House.

was done by McCone, who saw the President daily for about three weeks

after the assassination. y

himalariate Gookiot

Although OCI had provided more detail and background

information tr than waual in its' first intelligence books for President

on 24 Norenber

= thin- two ders

Johnson, McCone /passed te word through DDI cline that he vola bia te

ses more but shorter items. (Iva weeke later bruntey suitir meo suitt

rebug mat vor leave but the background dartea

McCone said the fresident

expected that topics appearing in the Checklist would be followed up

In later 18sues; therefore, OCI should make even negative reports.

IH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Cline, presumably reflecting the Director's wishes, said that the

thecklnst that day should cover military activity in South Vietnam,

the fighting in Laos, don Soviet ICBM developments, and problems. in the Berlin

air corridors and to Venezuela.

Around the middle of December, idea manuele oi the wilte

takerwrenut hor

Houser atits

When McCone stopped seeing the President daily, the White House staff

the Presideat

They

tried to get him to read the Checklist, but ere largely unsuccessful,

doditor

although MoGeorge Bundy wa able to do it some oral briefing, Checklist in

hand.

On 16 December, Cell GlIton told On to John Hideman, tat

"If we can't penetrate this sort, of wall today of tonorrow, we'll just

have to try sonething else." In this elpudy atmosphere, the sun came out

!

occasionally. On the 18th, Clifton said that the staff had finally managed

to get the President to read th "the books"--probably two or three issues.

At Christmastime, the President went to his Texas rach

ranch and shortly after Christmas had Chancellor Erhard as a visitor for

several days. The PICI, was cabled to the ranch each day... The report

HH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 6

---

## Page 7

5

was limited to notes overing important developments and any information

that might be useful in the talks with Erhard. The President returned

to Washington on 5 January, and the next day Gen. Clifton, who had been

at the ranch, sott told Heidemann that he had been able to get the

Checklist to the President with some regularity once Erhard had gone.

On 8 Januaty, however, Clifton was having difficulties

again--the President had/read the intelligence document since leaving Texas.

litHe

Clifton thought there would be a ket-up in the press of business after

What was antidntly happening was that the president found time for

that day's state of the Undon speech. He

the Gregklist only when there lan!t-a preye-of other busihoss, flifton

asked Philip Kennedy for a special report, briefly treating important

and still-current

problems that were covered in the books the President

rength on the-problen of the president

In fact, that

nat ettag tdo reudhis done Clifton thought jit would be good to try o

the system of giving the President a summary of significant intelligence

twice a week.

HH 55355 DooId: 32401332 Page 7

---

## Page 8

.....!

6

OfI quiokly put together an experimental President's

covering the period 4-9 January. This was taken by

Intelligence Review, /widock Richard Lehman, tag Asststant for Special

projects, taudaxto Gen. Clifton on 9 January.

clifton thought the

Review was the best solution to the problem of the President's intelligenceo

were

reading. He and Bundy agreed that the President would not accept a

dally intelligence briefing. The President had instructed Clifton that

the DCI was to see him whenever he wished but that otherwise the President

relied on Bundy and Clifton to stay on top of the intelligence. Because

with no warning

word

the President was Ilkely to ask them/for the latest intelligenco, the daily

• Checklist had to continue. Clifton agened receptive to 001"s propocat ta

•gend the checkliat tafned addits) perpet

For suggested that

the Checklist periodically include a special blue-s or green-bordered page

containing an operational report.

The next morning Gen. Cliftion called Lehman to report that

who and wanted, continued.

the White House was very pleased with the Review, /It had been the tried an

the President at breakfast and it had "worked like a charm." 3/

233

!

HH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 8-

---

## Page 9

7

!

Because the President was not reading the Checklist every day,

a it sent

the cuntanto trom tomore

few more

zham

DCI MaCone wanted hexabdoet/high-level officials to toneste

often-sensitive

fontentes beyend

the small circle of readers in Kennedy's time--the

Secretaries of State and Defense, McGeorge Bundy at the White House, and

the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. Therefore he obtained permission in

abditioned

February to extend the dissemination to four nons top officials in the

State Department, tHo more in defense, one on the Joint Chtold stats, dad ne

Secretary of the Ireasury and the Attorney-General. "

Besides

doing the sam'-weekly leave

sand the Pick, Oll was

Things-Neate aLong Tal

to is badio of theirsiad 00Ito produation of the seve

memoranda

response to requests tom the

DcImclone. was

Janis linking soundshang eat briefing a the President from time to

time, bamatis The Checklist writers still took the publication to

Bronley Smith and Gen. Clifton each morning and received their comments,

plus occasional playback from the President. When arcades unusually

in the PIOL

interesting items/caught his eye, Clifton would make a point of bringing

them to the President's attention. On 21 January, for example, he

HH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 9

T0:40212092000

---

## Page 10

8

reacted immediaely to the "quotable Khrushchey" item and said he would

get right to the President with this. A few days later he instructed

OCI to keep the White House "up to the minute" on Cyprus developments.

"Hours will make the difference," he said.

Insert *

from

nattiere

Gen. Clifton told James Hanrahan on 28 Januarty that

he had talked with the Preaddent about the presidents Intelligence

Revdey and It. Johnson had Bald it Iust fand He fud it a very

valuablo supplement to his occasional brieringa fron the DEI and he wanted

It continued without change.

Early in 1964, the President drew his aides Bill Moyers and

Jack Valenti into the intelligence picture. He wanted one of them present

when he read the Review at breakfast and he was reported occasionally as

discussing Checklist items with them. Although the Raf PICh writers

continued to meet and talk with Bromley Smith and Gen. Clifton, it began to

IN 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 10

---

## Page 11

look as though Moyers and Volent1 were stably taking the documents to

the President.

Insert

H 55355

plans to spend a weekend

On 25 March the President's popucaticansalux

comment

stochexack prompted Gen. Clifton to say that Mr. Johnon readp his

washup and

intelligence while kalge at the ranchs he lie often

8:15 a.m.

asking for it

was

But it, jo hard to catch him in Washington.

The next day Clifton said that it was not necessary for the OCI representa-

tires to meet him at 9130 a.t; the book ald not novo upstairs that faste

He for asked that the meetings take place at 10 in the future.

James C. Graham, Acting AD/PCI, took up with/Ray Cline

Emers

the possibility of the inviting. Moyers to CIA headquarters for lunch

first

and a briefing. Cline wanted Bood to discuss the White House problem

with Mecono, but sit Grada 1 it menorandun an how thangs were goint 5y

OCI than drew up a statement for Cline making the principal points that

it was meeting

se had no way of knowing whether we gone amady the President's

needs because so had no feedback from him, in contrast to the situation

under Kennedy. The reason for this was that dor contacts at the White House

DocId: 32401332 Page 11

---

## Page 12

10

If Lut deal directly with the President on intelligence matters.

OCI wondered how it could establish close links to the President's

1.=.

Immedlato staff. E1

wher tues

pers ceme

Did

NW 55355

DocId: 32401332

Page

12

---

## Page 13

11

a conifered

Things remained in en mprodtotable state for the

only

next few months, with/occasional indications that OCI's presidential

publications had hit the mark. Clifton oment In May that the Review

the said

was the best means of reaching the President, although the PICI registered

at times when Valenti was Interested In an Itom, One day when the

PICI was heavy on the side of bad news, Clifton said, "It's no woader the

President doesn't want to read this stuff-it annoys you." There were

days when the President read and initialed both the Review and the PICL.

From mid-year on, thod Mr. Johnson made frequent paliffid? trips around

the country. Clifton, who was usually with him, said he had more luck

getting the President to read his intelligence on the return flights than

on the way out, when Mr. Johnson was reviewing his speeches.

As the election neared, Secretary of State Rusk

expressed some concern to Motone about the security of the Checklist

and seemed to prefer that dissemination be limited to the President,

Secretary of Defense MoNaara and himso. The massed te road jan

H# 55355

DocId: 32401332 Page 13

---

## Page 14

12

and also convoyed

his

on the natter, ant mes informed thudedher at the saut time tisst Mecone t

/ feeling

falt that the President should read the Checklist dally, st or have it read to

him, and should not depend on the semi-weekly Revien.

4 Adlel Ro J. Smith responded in a memorandum of 5 November 196ls, bo

belleved

the De tornage to DATa Sued He Toid that the Agency would have a graceful

readers

way at dropping some of ths the Checklist stocthes If the publication

were to undergo a transformation in unich it would acquire a new name, a

new cover, and a new format. It would become President Johnson's publication,

specifically designed to meet his needs. To increase the juscotor chances

of its being read by the Chief Executive, It would be suboat produced

and worlde

to conform to the President's working habits bybeing delivered in

for late afternoon dutttoryao that 1t oott bo part of his evening roaring

Smith noted that the Review, which Mr. Johnson "usually reads," was

red his achines for his evening peruegl. Smith also noted

the importance of finding a way to establish direct contact with the

Preedent so that ot could pot foodback on then it minen

a vacuull.

NW 55355 DocId: 32401332

Page 14

---

## Page 15

13

The

Smith's proposal for a new publication was accepted

and was rapidly put into effect. The last Checklist was dated 30

November, and the next day the first issue of the President's Daily Brief (PDB)

was delivered to the White House. In substance it resembled the PICL,

but it had a fresh appearabce, and it max came out late in the afternoom

in the

instead of ths early, morning. Jack Valenti sent this first issue back

to MeGeorge Bundy saying that the President read it, liked it, and wanted

it continued. Dissemination was cut back, so that the only persons

the

receiving the PDB outside the White House were/Secretary & and Under

Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary, and

one Assistant Secretary, the leasury Secretary, and the Chairman of

the Joint Chiefs and Gen. Carroll.

The semi-weekly Review was dropped, but by 16 December

stin

the DCI ordered that the sumary rests of the Current Intelligence

with

Weekly Review be Included for each Friday's PDB. The sunnary, titled

Pen gate of the wok, atod on until 26 zebruary 2965, it a

HH 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 15

---

## Page 16

failed to arouse presidential Interest.

In the ensuing weeks and months, OCI was naturally

watching for indications of the success or failure of the restyled

PDB writer

daily for the President. On 13 January, /Thomas Patton oRiBauccares

coiner

noted that Bronley Smith wrote "The President" in the upper right, of

Copy Nio. 1. Patton asked whether Smith would like OCI to type thila on.

Muxsataxmiki No, Baid Smith, futting it on in long-hand gave it a human

touch.

despite

On 19 january, the format of the Brief was changed as a

result of discussions between McGeorge Bundy and Ray Cline. Bronley Smith

said he was liked the new format and he thoug"t the South Vietnam Item

was "exactly right." The President was not interested in the names of

generals and ministers and didn't follow such details.

page size

Further experiments in touch followed a talk McCone had

But nothirs

esome

of tham,

with the President, There was even a sample Brief that the President could

put in his pocket, though the thought of having sensitive material handled

this way made Bromley Smith groan.

NW 55355

DocId: 32401332 Page 16

...:

---

## Page 17

15

It Don

In mid-February, Bromley Smith said that the

Vietnam Bituation Report, which OCI had begun sending to the White House

daily at 8 agll., was proving to be very useful; it was going up to the

it hold not the imagina die oth

President every morning.

with Bramle Sacksonally here Wed a cortal amount of commotion te

with Brakey

5 pog writers dame alweys transacted their biginess

whon-thE-PUBiETy-HEre- there

around brander smith's office/because of people coming and going to

different meetings in the White House. One day Smith closed his door,

explaining that Nakhtyxurghtx

Bundy might be able to work this way with all the

Indians charging in all the time, but I fan't, espec-

jally since I was here till after Il last night

waiting for the President to leave.

_one day

say Smith unburdened himselt about abort

More himself and the Agency, One of them was the occasional flow of raw

clandestine information directly to the President, who "eats up informa-

Swift, recognized the good

riderigence don

ita.

flow

controlled by se

timely

"city editor" somewhere who could make a/package of ally the many types of

Infarmation, including the operational.

to PDBer Joseph O. Matthews

At another time, he reiterated/how

short the reaction i times had become at the White House.

He also

NW 55355 DooId:32401332 Page 17

---

## Page 18

16

The Impact of

Santo Domaso

On 24 April 1965 events took place that resulted in

an improvement in the standing of OCI publications in the White House.

On that day an uprising ses began against the provisional govorsment of the

Dominican Republke. The US fear that Cormunists might seize control of the

country led to the prompt dispatch of Marines to Santo Domingo. •President

--28 April--

oincidenc

Ton at latelligene

that the day they landed/was also the day

that Admiral William Raborn was sworn in as DCI, sücceeding John McCone.

Dominican

President Johnson sundant could hardly get enough intelligence on the Remina

situation, and Admiral Raborn was determined to provide the best seriice

the establishment of I

possible. The day after he took office, the Admiral ordered/a CIA task force

on the Dominican Hepublio under E. Drexel Godfrey, chief of OCI's Western Area.

As directed, it provided "complete and around-the-clock CIA Intelligence support

Its first task each day was to brief Raborn to

• him

to the White House," / Sa put thurstodn readinese to deal with thur calls from the

White House. Wayoodi Perlodically throughout the day and night it issued

round-up

situation reports, and when necesary, apot reporte of parttoular developments.

All these reports were teletyped to the white House, and they were read by the

Mr. Johnson, who was described by Bromley Smith as a prosax President "who eats

HH 55355

DocId: 32401332

Page 18

---

## Page 19

17

up information." 00I, see of coursa, continued to pus out 100 rogujar

Dominican

publications. It was during the surroxx crisis that words wag receited that

the President's Daily Brief had taken firm root in the White House. Exist

on 21 May that

B1l1 Moyers said/the President read It "avidly." 2/

Chief

The increased tempo of intelligence service to the riddha

route

Haux Executive prompted further consideration of the proper stuccut to

him.

and DDCI Richard Helms agreed that

a "greased channel" through

Priya Bundy should be established for the PDB

and any other reports the DCI wants to be sure the President sees. 10/

on 20 May

AD/CI Jack Smith conmented/that a "greased channel" already appeared to exdst

for the PDB. 11/

the NSC Staff (Meterrge Burd

He settle do love tart eatent act Attairer

White Itruse Situation Reom)

should bo the place of entry for intelligence sorT orient, although int orma-

Helms and Cline said tha

coples could be sent to Moyers and Valenti. Faso

H7 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 19

---

## Page 20

18

The sochet atrophere in the spring of 1965, with the

Dominican situation coming on top of growing difficulties in Vietnam,

caused the men in the White House to ask mote of intelligence and to

tanded ta mechan abar

sarctiono hi the thite House to Intertigence and-to

react to it more sharply. Bromley Smith said the President has a "very short

ed first from official sources and not from the press

reaction fuse." He wants

to hear/about major evelopments, lux so rapid

assemdnation a sental fit also warned that OCT would soon be asked to report

on every coup and to cover all present and potential trogble spots with high

precision. He said that in the for future, OCI's reports would not say that

the Valencia regime is shaky, but that "Valencia is going to be overthrown

by a coup on

the umpteenth July by & in Ioonerville."

Since this would be asking

the impossible in most cases, Richard Lehman, OCI'a Assistant for Special

Projects, weat to see Bill Moyers. He explained that it pourtbiu or OCI

Could

to write 50 pages of intelligence warnings a day, thereby taking out insurance

against any possible contingency, but that the office did not believe that this

would really serve the President. Lehman said OCI tried to be highly selective

In varning of koz coups and the like. Moyers expressed understanding of ma

HH 55355

DocId: 32101332 Page 20

---

## Page 21

19

OCI's difficulties, and the fire died down.

11

This episode had

an amusing sequel about eight months later when Bromley Smith pondered

the series of army coups in the republies of West Africa. He said he didn't

think the President wanted or needed to be informed in advance of every

threatened coup. "Otherwise," he said, "you could fill the book with that

sart of thing."

.

INsERT trom page below

he system now seemed to be working satisfactorily. OGI

Insert

was fairly confident that the PDB was being

read regularly by the President,

writers on the

theyPDB team rocktexx

and reactions,

and/i received useful suggestions as criticions ,usually from bromley smith,

they

when to delivered the publication each day. one day in June 1965 tacke

first parageaph of the

Aead Item in the PDB said "Acouralating information suggests that Hanol 1s

bringing North Vietnan to a state of semi-mobilisation,"

The second paragraph

explainied

Said that Hanol's action was far short of classic mobilization for offensive

operations; turbur OCI tax considered the move defensäve and was therefore

British expert

inclined tod discount the view of one Briton who thought a large-scale attaok

and Gen. Clifton

would soon be made acress the 17th parallel. President Johnson/at the time

NW 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 21

109060000 NO

---

## Page 22

dusentmp.19

The system for supplying current intelligence to thu

Johnson

President/was now working better than at previously.jntetodachswoohksteror

octantatrty-contaunt-that-the bcocidentiasgading.tha.aar.cegukarIza

To be sure,

scon the Presidential

To be sure intakes OCI did not benefit fran the steady playback it

under

had enjoyed for John Kennedy, It dinet, in cactatiaceive the direct

mayore and latorti who vero storest to Mr Johnson

On the other hand, tasterox OCI was fairly confldent that the President

was reading the PDB regularly, and the writers on the PDB team received

useful juggestions, criticians, and reactions--usually from Bremley Smith--

when they delivered the publication each day.

NW 55355 DocId: 32401332 Paqe 22

---

## Page 23

'20

were at the LBJ ranch. Late in the afternoon, the PDB received a phone call

from Bronley Smith, who said that Gen. Clifton had called from the ranch.

Ho had been shaker by the

If carst sentence of the Vietnamese 1tem had hasn-t on hose

was concerned about the whole piece. The President was out on the lake at

and was not expected back for several hours. Clifton at first felt he should

sunmon the President to shore. Skith discussed the matter with the PDB writer,

Thomas Patton, and there was further conversation with Clifton, who decided

thadecthe simply to add the word "but" after the first sentence and continue with

vas a vivid

the second somewhat reassuring second sentence. The case Illustrate agen

of.

the potentiality of the PDB for causing excitement in the White House Bondiopr

entourage.

Elimina

Foreign developmenta often and provoked airunbau

spirited reactions fron thuchob Bronley Smith, but It was not often that

na fare of the

he expressed surprise exabbation at the land of Intelligence he was reading,

substance apart. One such occasion, however, came when the PDB ran an item

about dissension between

and the Soviet Union.

JEK Act 6, (1) (B)

HH 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 23

---

## Page 24

21

!

JEK. Act 6 (1) (B)

that

and

had complained to

that the USSR acts on

the international scene without consulting its allies, just as in Stalin's time.

The

o1ted the 1962 missilo adventure in Cuba and Soviet positions

on disarmament.

agreed that more coordination was needed. Smith was

particularly interested in this item and remarked thakotorooklastruttestor

to PDB writer Archer C. Bush that it was "fantastic" that we could get this

kind of information.

Bromley Smith now and than modified or rewrote items when

he felt that they might confuse or unduly alarm the President. In December

1965, for examplo, President Johnson ordered a halt in the bombing of Kicki

Vletngm to in the hope of gotting negotiations started. A PDB 1tem reported

that Hanof had proadcast a tough restatement al its position, making no reference

this would be

to the pause in air strikes. Smith, recordedes afrald that tickshadox

taken

interpocket as a rebuff to the President's efforts, reworked the text to

avoid this interpretation since the

a fally

episonadiadockhexbroadcast did not constitute dof official government statement.

NH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Page 24

1 10-04.090000.7

• :.

---

## Page 25

22

It was fleer at various Loimes that there me.

Quite clearly, the White House staff cringed at bad news

from Vietnam. When the PDB reported in April 1966 that "the political situation

averred

appears to be rapidly worsening" in South Vietnany and Rantizat that Ky

might soon have to take drastic measures to restoro authority or make major

concessions to the Buddhists, Smith remarked that the article was pessimistica

and that

Moxacket he had later information. It was, of course, one of the perild of the

PDB operation that the White House sometimes had tater fresher reports from the

field. Smith handed John Heidemann cables reporting that ky was going to

formulate a new constitution and that the State Departyent looked upon this ba

hopeful. Heidemann agredd that OCI had written in ignorance of this information,

but added that offhand he would not be optimistic.

A few days later Smith read that "There was no real improve-

ment in the situation today..." and said "You're going to break the President's

whole

heart; he thinks things are much better today." When he fintshed the/dis -

heartening

turnint report, he tobsed the book in the air, whistled, and sald, "e'll

-----—

HH 55355

DocId: 32401332 Page 25

---

## Page 26

23

have fun tonight. But that's no reason for not writing it, as you see it."

Smith had cause for unhappiness again when the DB had

to repprt that/Pakistan officials felt that his country was seniorty if

_temporarily, drifting apart from the Us and would probably establish closer

PDB writer

relationships with the Soviet Union. Smith told/Allen Valpey that this article

was a "shacker" and that Walt Rostow would be disturbed by it. (Rostow

had replaced McGeorge Burdy za in April 1966.)

White itsinse

thickex use

Although sx Jogn McCone had not taken up a/suggestion

_in fernery time

that the President's daily give occasional coverage to CIA activities, ket

Admiral Raborn as DCI did adopt this practice. Bromley Smith reacted

.

negatively to these reports, however, apparently believing that president Johnson

did not like them, He particularly objected in 7966 to a PDB Annex explaining

Tobi: 957149114

how CIA used a portable ultra-violet light device in Vietnam to detect

guerrillas who ken had recently handled weapons before mingling trousently

with inno onp villagers. Smith did not want the Ageney to

He hellered

the i є

"advertise:"

in th PDIS."

"the

brosidear should be

informed of some CiA antimitres, the Del should

sand him a memorand um.

NN 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 26

---

## Page 27

85 24

Ey this time Did. Smith mas DDI, E, Drakel Godfrag was Dlocl

mad Richard Lahman was DD/OCl. Bromley Smolth met

with them and. the PAB Writers

Late in July 1966 Bromley Smith said that he had some ideas

about the PDB and would like to get together with all the writers., Ho mot n

they cad the cot/in the Langley building on 3 August. He prefaced his

remarks by sydouthadeductiodoxas expressing his satisfaction with the way

He explained, however,

the President was being served, He had no criticisms.

anan?

hoars that while the President "tolerates" aranymous documents, he

18 much mure & responsive to a personalized document. He wondered whether the

now DcI.

Brief could be Bigned by Mr. Helns, Then tik 1t would become a personal link

between the President and the firector. In regard to content, Smith said the

PDB did not have to alert the President to Impending crises over which he would

have no control. Rather, smith thought ik the PDB could be most useful

by aery inge tahs that given pithy Judgmentson situations with which the

President is or will be faced.

He Smith said these judgments would be accepted;

OCI did not have to support them with argumentation or evidence. Smith

emphasized that the Brief writers had to be fully up on US policies and should

adequately

read presidential speeches.

He felt the President is kept/informed of

HH 55355 DocId:32401332 Page/27

!

---

## Page 28

25

Vietnamese military developments by other means; the PDB should carry more

Vietnamese political and economic items. risnith urged that the Brief

have more coverage of

and said that Panama was another subject

high on the priority list. 13/

OCI promptly set about adopting Smith's suggestions as to

content, and Smith, commented that he ted noticed the change.

Cher abour Helms primature?)

!

• Back to Morning Delivery

alteration

A major change in the PDB system occurred at the end

of February 1967. Seemingly all that was involved was that President Johnson

decided that he would rather get the Brief in the morning than in the evening.

time

However, this change in delivery/forced other changes. The President wanted

the Brief at 6:30 allo, just before he began reading the newspapers. This meant

that OCI's closing time on the book was 5 a.m. Nonetheless, the PDB had to

NH 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 28

---

## Page 29

:

be written in full knowledge of this what was in the morning press.

A" Drexel Godfreys comented, the schedule put "the highest remium

on making the publication up to the minute."

15/

Recause the for nor had to be delivered to the White House

Situation Room by 6 a.Mlo, the PDR writers sual no longer had a member of

the President's staff up and available to receive the book and corment on it.

having

make

This meant that there was no point in/the writers marg the trip to the

white House. From this time on, the PDB was delivered by couriers. To make

up for the loss of the morning conversations with Bronley Smith, an OCI

staff member would visit him occasionally to check on how things were going,

and there was also communication by phone.

Sos fu the PDS

schedule,

Shortly after the changeover to the ne

commenting on the Prestient's reaction;

Bromley Smith, NotebodekbrasJocktack

said emphatically

that iwe are much more certain now that he's reading it."

He alsb made a

point he was to make several times subsequently, which was that he disapproved

off annexes to the Brief. He was afradd that If the Brief were burdendd with

an Annex, the President would put it aside for later reading--and then not

HH 55355 DooId:32401332 Page 29

---

## Page 30

27

Smith thonger it was an excellent idea for the

Briet to suonmarize the

comebasions.ot

"Importaid" maternal estimates, 161

Get back to it. In Beddestood Smith's vlew, the PDB should be of a

Longeh whach the prosident ould whip theous quickly, sodason baded

be better if annex-type reports were sent down separately. hot n

Smith continued to admonish OCI writers now and then box

Languagedues about the words and phrases they employed in the PDB. He admitted

that thet it was hard to know where to draw the line, but he cautioned that

Betastux the staff should be oereful about did not like "hopping mad," nor, n

As a rule of thumb, he said the writers should avoid seeming frivolous or light-

hearted.

on another occasion,did he care for a description of India as an "unwilling bride."

At the President's féquest, OCI on 7 September 1967 beget

dealt

to attach to the Brief a Special Report on North Vietnam that saddebated mainly

EMINENT

with the effects. of the war.,

The only cipy to go outside of the Agency was

addressed: "For Bromley Smith - Eyes Only for the President."

Beginning with

the issue of 6 October, this special depart carried a new sectiba on North

Vietnamese treatment of political attitudes toward the war, expressed in state-

ments and demonstrations.

NW 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 30

---

## Page 31

28

In November DOI Heima talked with Drexel dodirey and

Richard Lehman about the PDB. Madar The Director expressed greatsatisfaction

the

with both the Brief and/Special Report. He said the latter is was "really

hitting the mark." He urged that OCI try harder to preside: come up with items

Malms savid,

on the personalities of men familiar to the President, who, thinke in terms

of pessonalities. Helms also asked that the Y'DB give more attention to

coming visite of worldx VIPs to Washington and to each other.

No major changes in the PDB were made during President

Joinson's tine astor the dineroduction of the spoor l, orin soranç

Hepart. To alla appearances, the Brief had evolved into a document satisfactory

to the president, and it kept serving its purpose throughout the rest of the

administration.

All OCI analysts who have worked on the YDB are familiar

in the White House si

holding

with a photograph of President Johnson sitting/with Lady Bird and/his first

grandson. In his hand is an issue of the President's Daiky brief, «contesta

to reading stunt This homey picture epitonized the position

оссирісі

that OCI hoped the Briet had In the White House. And perhaps it dod.

NH 55355 DocId:32401332 Page 31

---

## Page 32

29

The importance to a President of a steady flow of

first-class intelligence is self-evident. Whatever scope and depth of in-

formation he can

obtain from the public media, he still needs the intelli-

gence that comes from the utilization of sensitive technogical means and

clandestine operations. He is entitled to objective appraisals based on all

sources, public and governmental. In planning American positions and actions,

should have

the

possible. and probaste desalopment of

he mats the most soubdly based estimates of f

on foreign situations, are barti

to reverep

CIA and Its predecessor, the CIQ, have met these presidential

Intelligence needs. What they have furnished the fresidents has been determined

by ne interplay between the intelligence organization and the White House.

learn what each

The Agency has been pantand eager to pouchabcata President wanted

In terms of subject matter, timing, format, /style

meet these re

as arted to give a necdemo to mat tre wanted, and est bother" him with.

ething olors At the sane time, i print has tiger as possion

Le PesTer

befora the preside

abigated to see that lap receives the reporte

H 55355 DocId: 32401332 Paffe 32

---

## Page 33

30

to bias

he wanted

but which ClA recognizad the

reside romaest

have

haust baveg aven if

-has.not.boon-torosaon.and.roquastad.

warmotfattwithdrang-oategory-of-roquestoo

information.

There has probably never been complete agreement between

CIA and the White House on what the President really needs to know, but

a degree

amatticare of mutial toleration usually prevailsa so that a President will

accept

read some things he isn't particularly interested in and CIA will anyt

carry on certain lines of reporting simply out of regard for a President's

supply-spresidant wither tatn-sourting

idiosyncracies.

In serving Presidents Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy, and

was able to

Treet tine-to the

Jonnaon, Cla's Office or current. Intelligence found

Acrostly

sijof areative its message à

to de Chief Erecutive,

A fare -

although the method was adjusted to accord with each President's prefetences.

HH 55355 DocId: 32401332 Pade - 33

---

