# docid-32297908

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/23/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10220-10184

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

2-897-111, 112

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CHANDLER, LAWRENCE R.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 03/03/1948

PAGES:

54

SUBJECTS :

EB, ASSOC, TELCAL, CONSPR, BOMB, CARACAS,

VENEZUELA, WIT, STATEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/08/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC INDEX GUIDE, RPT

Released under the John

F. kennedu

Mosassination Records

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel .

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

v9.1

14 54463

18

DocId: 32297908

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT SAVANNAH

FILE NO. 2-37

REPORT MADE AT,

BALT IMORE

TITLE

DATE WHEN MADE

3/12/48

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

3/9/48

REPORT MADE BY

JOSEPH J. KEECH

CHARACTER OF CASE

jka

EDWARD BROWDER,

JR.;

HARRY ALLEN SNOW, wa.;

CHARLES BENJAMIN PAVL ICER,.

JR.; HENRY

KERSHAW

-BAKER; KENNETH JAMES NEWCOMER; OLIN DAVID ASON-FUG.

NEUTRALITY ACT

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Idantity of subscribers to telephone

numbers in Baltimore, which were called

by BROWDER in January 1948, ascertained

and

set forth.

-RUC =

REFERENCE:

'48

Report Of SA LAlKENCE ho GHANDL

BRE DATENAFION GOTATE

3/3/48,

at Savannah, Georgia.

FREYN IS UNCHAUST A

AT BALTIMORE, MARYLAND

DAST 0/8/24 DiSP8MACIGATT=

DETAIN

STA

In referenced report it was noted that subject BROWDER called

seveal telentone nunbers in Baltimore during January of 1948.

The

Baltimore office was requested to ascertain the identity of

the subscribers to these numbers as well as all possible informa-

tion relatize to the calls.

Confidential Informant 214 advised that telephone number

Catonsville 267 is a pay telephone located in the drugstore oi

ISRAEL RUDDIE, 5300 Edmondson Avenue, Catonsville, Maryland.

Telephone number Hopkins 0300

is listed for the Coastal Tank

Lines, 2504 Harford Avenue.

It is to

be noted that this company

is owned by and operated by KARL JOHN EISENHARDT.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL AGEN

N CHARGE

a Hall

CONIES DESTROYMA

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

A 459

AUG7196L

- Bureau

3

- Savannah (2-11) (1 USA,

- Baltimore

12

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

112

3 MAR 18 1948

decree

COPY INFI

U. S. OOYBENKENT PRINTING OFFICE

7--2034

RECORDED

INDEXED

EX • 58

NW 54463 DooId: 32297908

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Form No. 1

THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT SAVANNAH

FILE NO. 2-37

REPORT MADE AT

BAL TIMORE

DATE WHEN MADE

3/12/48

PERIOD FOR

WHICH MADE

3/9/48

REPORT MADE BY

JOSEPH J. KEECH

CHARACTER OF CASE

EDWARD BROWDER, JR.;

HARRY ALLEN SNOW, wa.

CHARLES BENJAMIN PAVLICEK,

JR.; HENRY KERSHAW

BAKER; KENNETH JAMES MENCOMER; CLIN DAVID MASON-UG.

NEUTRALITY ACT

SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:

Identity of subscribers to telephone

numbers in Baltimore, which were called

by BROWDia in Jamary 1948, ascertained

and set forth.

REFERENCE:

DETAILS:

- RUG -

Report of SA LAWRENCE h. CHANDLER, dated

3/3/48, at Savannah, Georgia.

AT BALT INORE, MARYLAND

In referenced report it was noted that subject BROWDER called

several telephone numbers in Baltimore during January of 1948.

The Baltimore office was requested to ascertain the identity of

subscribers to these numbers as well as all possible informa-

relative to the calls.

Confidential Informant 214 advised that telephone number

Catonaville 267 is a pay telephone located in the drugstore of

ISRAEL RUDDIE, 5300 Edmondson Avenue, Catonsville, Maryland.

Telephone number Ellicott Gity 481 is subscribed to by

KARL JOHN EISENHARDT •

Telephone number Hopkins 0300 is listed for the

Coastal lank

Lines, 2504 Harford Avenue.: It is to be noted that this company

is owned by and operated by KARL JOHN ELSENHARDI.

APPROVED AND

FORWARDED:

SPECIAL, AGENT

N CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES

COPIES OF THIS REPORT

i Bureau

3

- Savannah (2-11) (2 USA, Savannah)

51710/3/4208p8 MACKSAT

2 - Baltinore

(FK)

D. B. 00VH8NHENT PRENTINO OTICA 7-2034

NW 54463 DooId: 32297908 Page 3

jka:

---

