# docid-32348249

## Page 1

Date: 12/20/04

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10068-10092

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53199 Date:

J6-08-2017

CIA

MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR

CABLE: FOLLOWING IS TRANSLATION OF A RESUME OF THE

FOLLOW UP CONVERSATION

11/27/1963

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS : HERNANDEZ ARMAS

DURAN,

SILVIA

DORTICOS ,

PRES.

DOCUMENT

TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION.

: SECRET.

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

08/05/93

COMMENTS

: JFK12 : F23 : 1993.08.05.10:40:04:840060

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10068-10092

53199

DocId: 32348249

Page 1

---

## Page 2

UNSLASSIFIED

!"'TERNAL

: ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CON 'ENTIAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

EXTENSION

ACTION COPY

TO: (Oficor designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

NO.

MEXI

DATE

NOV Z7 1965

7032

OFFICER'S

COMMENTS (Number each comment lo show from whom

to whom.

Dran a line across column ofter each commont.)

2.

SCOTT

WHITE

NOV 2 7 1963

4.

DUPE OF

175 617

10.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

610 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

PACE: 15408

COPY

NO:

HH 53199

DocId: 32348249 Page 2

---

## Page 3

0;.

FORM

89-357

1304

(4)

ORIG.:

COS

EXT.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE:

PISTR.:

COMMO

CHRONO (DUMMY)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

• FILE:

INITIALS

DTG..

27 NOVEMBER 1963

CP-8593)

Lienvoy/Prod

Heruandez Armas P

NUMBER

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

XX IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

TO

IMMEDIATE. DIR

709%

INFO.

RYBAT

REF: MEXI 7068

CITE

DuP

175 617

MEXI NUNSER

1. FOLLOWING IS TRANSLATION OF A RESUME OF THE FOLLOW UP

CONVERSATION TO THAT IN REFERENCE. SOURCE IS LIENVOY.

2. LITENSOR HAS COPY •

3. TAPES BEING SAVED.

4. IN THIS CONVERSATION CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO MEXICO JOAQUIN

HERNANDEZ ARMAS RETURNS THE CALL TO PRESIDENT DORTICOS OF

CUBA. THE CALL TOOK PLACE AT 1939 HRS (MEXICO CITY TIME).

5, THE RESUME: "AMBASSADOR HERNANDEZ ARMAS APOLOGIZES

TO PRESIDENT DORTICOS FOR HAVING BEEN LATE IN CALLING HIM,

BUT BECAUSE OF AN INTERRUPTION ON THE LINE, HE HAS NOT DONE SO

UNTIL NOW. HE ADDS THAT 'I SPOKE WITH THIS PERSON AND DID NOT

ADD ANYTHING IMPORTANT TO WHAT I HAVE ALREADY INFORMED AND

WHICH I RATIFIED VERBALLY. AND WITH RESPECT TO THE CONCRETE

POINT WHICH YOU ASKED ME ABOUT, SAYS THAT THERE WAS NO OFFER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLXESIFICATION

OUTGOING

RELEASING OFFICER

09017

PAGE 155 0₽

COPY N

HN 53199 DocId:32348249 • Page 3

---

## Page 4

(44)

1304

ORIG.:

EXT.:

DISTR.:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION

INITIALS

DTG.

INITIALS

DATE:

FILE:

TO

Page 2.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NUMBER

703%

INFO.

•CITE

NUMBER

OF ANY KIND. ' DORTICOS: 'NO... I WASN'T ASKING ABOUT AN OFFER.

HERNANDEZ ARMAS: 'AH, I HAD UNDERSTOOD THAT WITH THE CONFUSION

OF THE ..! DORTICOS: "NO, I WAS REFERRING AS TO WHETHER THEY

HAD THREATENED HER SO THAT SHE WOULD MAKE A STATEMENT THAT

THE CONSULATE HAD GIVEN MONEY TO THE MAN... THAT AMERICAN.•

UNDERSTAND?' HERNANDEZ ARMAS: 'AH, NO, NO, NO, NOT AT ANY

MOMENT.' DORTICOS: 'NOTHING OF THAT?' HERNANDEZ ARMAS: 'NO,

NO, THAT NOTHING ABSOLUTELY WAS GIVEN TO HER... RATHER THEY

(ENDEREZAR - STRAIGHTENED OUT?) THE INTERROGATION...

• DORTICOS:

'THEN WE CAN GO ALONG WITH THE VERSION OF YOUR INFORMATION?!

HERNANDEZ ARMAS: 'YES, SR. PRESIDENTE, OF COURSE.' DORTICOS:

'THEN NOTHING MORE OF IMPORTANCE?' HERNANDEZ ARMAS:

"NO,

NOTHING IMPORTANT... ANYWAY, I AM GOING TO SUBMIT SOON A DRAFT

OF ALL THE DETAILS, BECAUSE THERE ARE OTHER DETAILS OF MINOR

IMPORTANCE, AND OTHERS OF NONE AT ALL, BUT CONTAINED IN THE

STATEMENT... AND I HAVE ASKED HER TO MAKE ME A DRAFT AS

PROLIFIC AS POSSIBLE AND TO SUBMIT IT AT THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY. ' "

COORDINATING OFFICERS

END OF MSG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CSSGRETION

RELEASING OFMEER. C.

OUTGOING

PAGE

156 01.

COPY-

NO

HH 53199

DocId: 32348249 Page 4

---

