# docid-32291777

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10208-10053

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-2003

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

• PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/03/1967

5

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, WHEREABOUTS, HOTEL, REGISTRATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

03/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS : INC A/T, NOTE

v9.1

DocId: 32291777

Page 1

286

---

## Page 2

Released under the John I. Kennedy Assassinatiop Records Collection Act of 1992-Cid USe 102

DATE: 11-14-2017

SEXP (S)

Hotel.

CLASSIZITD DOT

BY DP.73

Kry

DATE :

8/20/85

Airtel

WATTZHD

Val

5/4/615300 201

STO REVERSE

CH:GSE1. CAN ON9

NETTO"

OXT

5-4-

DATE

AINED

To:

SAC, Chicago

From:

REC 29

Director,

SAMUEL

M.

GIANCANA

FAR 3 4A

- 2013

CT::

DA

WTON

5/3/67:

MET 07.3668 SL0/GCL

0M 19/10/97

Following cablegram received from Legat,

(a)

Mexico CityA

HERE

EXCE

Further inquiry today at Hotel Tecali by Mex 21,

who has furnished reliable information in past and who is

Intimately

of Tecali®

of records by source revealed no past or

present registration for subject.

Noted that this is a luxury

hotel with only 20 suites and all guests known to management.

Munguia shown photographs of subject and stated unknown to him

and has never resided at hotel.

Desk clerks, elevator operators,

bar and restaurant people also

contacted and

stated subject not

guest and not known to them.

S6dE 1967

COMM. F8%

Only guests checking

were young Mexican

honeymoon couple named Suarez.

Hotel will advise source if subject appear:

(surveillance informants Mex 42 and Mex 196)

are

canvassing Neighborhood:

Informants also continuing efforts

Polsewhere in Mexico City

and in Cuernavaca.

vela

SRIARK

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohr .

Wick

Cusper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele.

Room

djg

AKEMPT F

DATE QUA

CASSIT

FRENET

# GUS+

ORASSIFI

TOK

6MAY

PROPREAT?

19671

BEBEAT

MAIYROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

DocId: 32291777

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under

the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 114 U5C 2107

BATE: 611414-20173

1 D(Rer. 1937-661

DECODÉD COPY

I AIRGRAM

XX CABLEGRAN

•RADIO.

DeLoachi

I VERSI

- Mont T

Wick

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

-Felt

Gale wo

Rosen -

*Sullivan

Tavel -

TELERYPE

Trotter

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

STATE 08

URGENT, 5-3-67

TO-DIRECTOR (92-3171)

ADRI

MATINE

*CIES

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 243

9/29)

SANEL M. GIANCANA; JENTI - RACKETERING. JAV

SAMUEL M.

11-1-78

1D BY 125°

~REMYCAB MAY 2, LAST: L

MENPI PRI

LASS.

IFICATION

FURTHER INQUIRY TODAY AT HOTEL TECALI BY MEX ZI, WHO

HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN PAST AND WHO IS INTIMATELY

ACQUAINTED WITH GONZALO MUNGUIA WHO IS MANAGER OF TECAL

REVIEW OF RECORDS BY SOURCE REVEALED NO PAST OR PRESENT

REGISTRATION FOR SUBUECT. NOTED THAT THIS IS. A LUXURY HOTEL

WITH ONLY 20 SUITES AND ALL GUESTS KNOWN TO MANAGEMENT.

MUNGUIA SHOWN PHOTOGRAPHS OF SUBJECT AND STATED UNKNOWN TO HIM:

AND HAS NEVER RESIDED AT HOTEL. DESK CLERKS, ELEVATOR OPERATORS,

BAR AND RESTAURANT PEOPLE ALSO CONTACTED AND

STATED SUBJECT NOT

GUEST AND NOT KNOWN TO THEMS

ONLY GUESTS CHECKING OUT APRILA

HONEYMOON COUPLE NAMED

, SUAREZ.

WERE YOUNG MEXICAN

0031710.26

OR PADR

Totale

19.15•28

CLASSFFTED PY 125A-

ICATION

INDEFINITE

3

MAY:

5. 1967

(u)

2

DATE OLDE

If the intelligenc

contained in the above message is to be disser

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic system

ide the Bureau, it is sugge

Page suitably

DocId: 32291777 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 741 U5C 21

DATE: 11-14-2017

4-27-661

Hote).

_ AIRGRAM

DECO DUE COPY

XXI

CABLEGRA

RADIO

Tolson

DeLoach

Mohi —

Wick -

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt -

Gale -

Rosen -

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy -

PAGE TWO FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITY NO. 243

• TELETYPE

KIET

HOTEL WILL ADVISE SOURCE IF SUBJECT APPEARS

SURVEILLANCE INFORMANTS MEX 42 AND MEX

196

ASHANVASSING

NEIGHBORHOOD. INFORMANTS ALSO CONTINUING EFFORTS ELSEWHERE IN

MEXICO CITY AND IN CUERNAVACA.

RECEIVED: 10:55 PM RM

SEXIET

3RD CC: MR. BRENNAN

.39*

paraphrase ee or cott ined it the love message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is sugeested that it be suitabl

• cryptographic sustems

DocId: 32291777 Page 1

---

