# docid-32292909

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10210-10185

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-348

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/24/1961

1

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

LST, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/08/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45966 DocId: 32292909 Page 1

41

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

FBI

Date:

10/24/61

AIRTEI

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-88)

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, Jr., aka

DAILY AIRTEL

OTHER 4

a PCI of this office and who

is familiar with Cuban activities, advised he heard

that subject was in the Bal Harbour section of the

Miami Beach area.

Chief G. W. OWENS (NA), of the Bal

Harbour Police Department, advised he also heard a

rumor that TRAFFICANTE might be in the

area.

Chief

OWENS stated he has been unable to verify this information

and will arrest TRAFFICANTE on sight.

HARRY BROOKS, Manager of the Sigapore Hotel,

of Bal Harbour, states

he is acquainted with subject

as he was formerly connected with the Hotel Capri

in Havana, Cuba, in the gambling casino at that notel.

He stated

he saw TRAFFICANTE approximately two months

ago at a restaurant on Miami

Beach and has not seen him

since.

It was BROOKS' belief that anyone interested

in gambling would not be at Miami Beach during this

period as the beach is dead.

Bureau (AM)

- Tampa (92-1) (Info)

1 - Miami

WAH: mjh

(5)

REG 12 22-278/-348

& OCT 26 1961

-*

Sent

Approved:

56 OCT 31 1960.

M Per

in Charge

HW 45966 DocId: 32292909 Page 2

---

