# docid-32310383

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/6/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10302-10327

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 63-7112-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, LA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

04/19/1962

2

RK, ASSOC, B/F INT, ADMIN INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

12/16/1997

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32310383

Page 1

10

---

## Page 2

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATES (F1Y1T-207

• FBI

Date:

4/19/62

Transmit the following in

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM :

RE :

DIRECTOR, FBI (63-7112)

SAC, LOS ANGELES (62-5111)(P)

JAMES RIDDLE HOFFA;

EARL ALBERT SCHEIB; ET AL

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

(ACCOUNTING & FRAUD SECTION)

00: Los Angeles

Re Los Angeles report of SA NICHOLAS MC GAHAN, Jr.

2/16/62.

The following regarding captioned matter is

being furnished the Bureau for information purposes:

on 4/6/62 a highly confidential source (CSLA

4395-C) was approved by the Bureau in a case captioned

ANTHONY DORIA, ANTI-RACKETEERING, Bufile 92-5715, LA

file 92-745.

Inasmuch as DORIA is also a subject of

captioned

case, the info obtained from this source should

prove to be of

great value.

Contact is made on a continuous basis with

CSLA 4374-C, also made active 12/26/61, in connection with

the DORIA Anti-Racketeering case.

Info obtained from these two sources which is of

any significance in captioned matter will be submitted to

the Bureau in a form suitablè for dissemination at time

next report is written.

In accordance with departmental attorney

CHARLES Z. SMITH's request, continuous monitoring of

SCHEIB and DORIA's bank accounts has been, conducted.

3

Bureau

]

- Los Angeles

*-116

63-7112-35

NM: scm

(4)

G% Wick

Approved:

0r*")

APR

I Special Agent in Charge

*51 5 APR 23 1962

Sent -

DocId: 32310383 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act Of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

LA 62-5111

Mr. SMITH will have to be recontacted to ascertain if

he desires that Schelß be interviewed. Los Angeles

feels that an interview with SCHEIB during the week of 4/23/02

may prove productive in view of the above mentioned

confidential source CSIA 4374-C.

SMITH is expected in

Los Angeles the week of 4/23/62 andhis opinion re this

interview will be obtained.

A more complete and detailed report can be

submitted by LA

after SCHEIB is interviewed; therefore,

it is felt that a report reflecting contact with SMITH

and/or interview with SCHEIB will be submitted by 5/4/62.

. -2 -

DocId: 32310383

Page 3

---

