# docid-32305624

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10288-10254

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-3171-61

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SU

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/08/1960

3

SGI, WHEREABOUTS, ASSOC, ASHCRAFT REALTY CO.,

PROPERTY PURCHASE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32305624

Page 1

405

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATIC (70-1412947

Suit ..

Transmit the following in -

Via.

AIRTEL

= Date:

8% 8/60

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

SAC, SALT LAKE CITY (92-212)

SAMUEL M.

OGIANCANA, aka

AR

00: Chicago

DATE

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

6.6•94

RE Bureau airtel dated 7/14/60 and New York letter

dated 7/14/60.

SU 446-C advised on 7/18 and 8/5/60 that he knows

subject by sight but has not observed him in or around Las

Vegas, Nevada, for several

months.

BOYD ASHCRAFT, Ashcraft Realty Company, Las Vegas,

Nevada, advised SA M. B. PARKER on 8/3/60 that his firm very

seldom

handles any rental property. He stated that during

past four months, so far as he knew, the firm had only

handled three rentals, and that two of them were to local

people whom he had known for quite some time. Y

ASHCRAFT advised that his nephew, MARSHAL ASHCRAFT,

had handled rental of the MARGO HINES Estate, located in

Paradise Valley immediately adjacent to Las Vegas. ASHCRAFT

stated that he knew very little of the details, in fact did not

even know name of person who had rented the ranch. Y

MARSHAL ASHCRAFT, Ashcraft Realty Company, advised.

on 8/4/60 that MARGO HINES

had listed her ranch, which is

comprised of residence, guest house, swimming pool, stables,

etc., covering about 23 acres of land, located at corner of

Pecos Road and Sunset Drive in Paradise, Valley, near Las Vegas,

about five miles from "The Strip"

hotels are located. .

BEATO

where all major resort

RUC.

REG 24

92-3171-61

- Bureau

1

-

Chicago (92-349)

1 - New York (info)

7

pproved:

Salt Lake City

MBP: clsdecial Agent

4. ASE 1 51960

:16 AUG 10 1960

(92-793)

Sent

_M

DocId: 32305624 Page 2

---

