# docid-32576623

## Page 1

FD-36, (Rev. 5522-64)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI

Date:

3/30/65

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority)

Bei00, 2,3,775

TO

• DIRECTOR, FBI

PROM

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

SUBJECT: ELA COSA NOSTRA

IN VIEW OF THE SENSITIVITY OF THIS INFORMANT, EXTREME

CAUTION SHOULD BE UTILIZED IN ORDER THAI SOURCE WILL NOT BE

COMPROMISED.

On 3/28/65, ALEX CAMARATA, member of the San Jose

family of LA COSA NOSTRA, informed SF 2550-C-TE that he received

a message from his father-in-law, JOHN MISURACA, that a meeting

of certain members of LA COSA NOSTRA would take

place in Detroit,

Michigan,

in May, 1965. The purpose of this meeting is to

recommend

a definite course of action relative to the HAROLI

MIn matter and also possibly to consider outlining a pran

CA COSA

NOSTRA activities in the California area.

In 1964, JOHN MISURACA was identified as a Caporegima

of the COLUMBO family, BA COSA NOSTRA, New York.

For the benefit of offices having no prior information

regarding the above mentioned HAROLD SMITH matter, summarized

background and recent pertinent developments reported by

SF 2550-C-TE.

75 - Bureau

(3 - 92-6054)

(RM)

12 - 137-7765)

2

- Boston (92-605)

2

- Buffalo

(92-337)

2

- Chicago

(92-1123) (RM)

RV: cg

(38)

(DISSEMINATIÓN

CONTINUED ON

REG1092-6054-1

PAGE 2)

APR 1 1965

Sent

_M

Per

UNRECORDED COPY FILED IN

Approved Ma

ESpecial Agent in Charge

555

NW 45839 DooId: 32576623

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SF 92-593

RV: cg

In the late 40s or early 50s there was a family

fight occuring in the HAROLD SMITH family of the Harold's

Club, Reno, Nevada. Information developed since that time

indicates HAROLD SMITH SR., wanted his stepmother killed tie d

and allegedly arranged With a member of the San Jose family

Of LA COSA NOSTRA to have this done.

Subsequently, the SMITH

family trouble was settled and the contract was cancelled.

However, LA COSA NOSTRA feels that since the contract was agreed

upon, SMITH still owed the money

as $100,000.

have been made to collect this amount from HAROLD SMITH, SR.,

and the situation has been the subject of discussion by

• the

San Jose group on a number of occasions but to date, no definite

plan of action has been selected by LA COSA NOSTRA.

on 3/0/05, at about 10:00 p.m., SP 2550-0-1E receivec

telephone call from ALEX CAMARATA whO

but a few minutes earlier

- 3 - Detroit

(RM)

(2 - 92-914)

2 - Las Vegas

{1 - 137-3669(1991)

. - Los Angeles (92-1112) (RM)

- Miami (92-853) (RM)

- Milwaukee (92-262) (RM)

- Newark

(2 - 92-1203) (RM)

(1 - 92-1213)

3 - New York

(RM)

1 - 92-2300

12-92-2378)

•2 - Philadelphia (92-1027) (RM)

- Tampa

- (RM)

1 - 92-246

(1 - 92-218)

6 - San Francisco

11-

92-593)

1-

92-48

1

- 92-603

92-508

- 92-406

(1 - 137-2571)

NW 45839 DooId: 32576623 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 92-593

RV.: cg

was in contact with JOHN MISURACA (who called long distance

from New Jersey). MISURACA told ALEX that he interded to

telephone nümber of JOSEPH CERRITO.

According to ALEX, VIS,A-

MISURACA attempted to contact CERRITO at his automobile agenés

after the regular working 'hours, but was advised that CERRITO

was gone for the day.

The person MISURACA talked with de-

clined to furnish CERRITO's home phone number.

Informant furnished ALEX with CERRITO's home phone

number and ALEX indicated he would relay this information to

MISURACA immediately.

ALEX then remarked in Sicilian that

"the shepherd went to the mountains against JOHN's orders"

which was interpreted by informant to mean that CERRITO had

gone to Reno, Nevada in connection with the HAROLD SMITH caper

against JOHN MISURACA's wishes. ALEX then instructed informant

that he was to contact CERRITO at his home within the week,

adding

that informant should not be surprised if he were to

have a

"visitor"

at his home at any moment.

ALEX would not

give informant any further details or clarify his statement

on the telephone. Informant, as of this date, has not re-

ceived any guests or visitors at his home.

SF 2550-C-TE said he dropped in at the CERRITO home

on Sunday, 3/14/65, but was advised by CERRITO's married

daughter that CERRITO was called away on business.

She sug-

gested that informant confirm any future meeting with her

father by telephone.

Informant telephonically contacted

CERRITO on the night of 3/16/65, who instructed him to meet

him at the Los Gatos Lodge within one half hour.

At the

appointed time, informant met CERRITO at the lodge and

CERRITO apologized for not meeting at his home, his excuse

being that earlier in the day he had made arrangements to

in the day

receive a long distance call at the Los Gatos Lodge (which

Lease arently had handled prior to infomant's arrivàl at the

Informant then opened conversation advising CERRITO

that he had been instructed by CAMARATA to contact CERRITO,

but informant made no mention of the fact that he was aware

of CERRITO's travel to Reno; however, he did mention that he

furnished CERRITO's phone number to JOHN MISURACA. CERRITO

brushed off any further comment in connection with any contact

he had or may have had with MISURACA saying, "It was all right -

3

NW 45839 DooId: 32576623 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 92-593

RV: cg

it was nothing of any importance." CERRITO then inquired as

to informant's employment.

Informant indicated to CERRITO

that he vas doing very well with his job and that financially

was better off than he has been in a longtime, CERRITO

praised informant's attitude and asked if informant had given

were offered a Cadillac franchise, he would without hesitation

drop his Lincoln-Mercury dealership since it would be an oppor-

tunity to make more money.

He then indicated to informant that

he wanted informant

"to make one more try up in Reno"; that he

vanted informant to obtain a job in that city. Informant ad

vised CERRITO that it would be most difficult to give up hit

present job and further, he knewn one in Reno except GUY LENT

CERRITO said that he would not have to be concerned with LENt

anymore because

"he's dead anyway.

CERRITO told Informant

NEVALA

he had a contact in Reno who could help informant locate the

right job, although the identity ofthis person was not dis-

closed by CERRITO.

CERRITO

then asked,

taking the boys for a ride?" (meaning,

"What do you think of

taking ALEX CAMARATA

and PETE MISURACA to Reno with him).

Informant told CERRITO

that if he had any choice In the matter and if it was only to

travel on a routine trip, hewould rather not take PETE along

but "if it's business concerning Our Thing, I'll take him

along.

On 3/21/65, informant was advised by JOE CERRITO

that he was postponing the meeting planned for this night to

3/23/65.

He instructed informant to be at the Los Gatos

Lodge, San Jose, California, at 8:30 p.m. and that he was

to bring ALEX with him.

Informant immediately contacted ALEX advising him

of the change in plans and ALEX indicated that he would be

present.

During the afternoon of 3/23/65, Mrs. ALEX CAMARATA

telephonically informed informant's wife that her husband would

be unable to attend the meeting at Los Gatos Lodge as they were

expecting a relative from Detroit.

Upon receipt of the above message, informant contacted

ALEX at his home who stated he

"wanted no part of it"

and flatly

refused to attend the meeting.

4

HH 45839

DooId: 32576623

Page 4

---

## Page 5

SF 92-593

RV: cg

Informant did not press ALEX for his reasons as

ALEX will not engage in discussions over the phone which concerns

organization business.

Informant was of the opinion that

ALEX was

aware of what was to be discussed at the meeting although

informant, himself, had no inkling of what was to transpire.

Per his previous instructions, informant met CeRRITo

•at the Los Gatos Lodge on the night of 3/23/65. CERRITO was :

accompanied by DOMINICK

Informant made an excuse for

ALEX's absence, explaining that an unexpected guest had arrived

at his home and also, that ALEX indicated he was not interested

in whatever it was that was to be discussed.

According to informant, DOMINICK dominated the

entire meeting in that he did most of the talking.

He inquired

as to whether or not informant was satisfied with his job and

the salary he was receiving.

He talked as though he was leading

up to a job offer. His conversation, according to informant

was such

that it was either "double talk" or that DOMINICK

believed that informant had complete knowledge concerning the

matter under discussion.

In apparent reference to the HAROLD

SMITH matter at Reno, Nevada, and informant's 3/16/65 discussion

with CERRITO (above)

ANZALONE told informant that it was

up to him (informant) and him alone to make a decision; that

"up there (Reno you don't know who you're dealing with and you

have to be careful."

Informant told

ANZALONE that he didn't know

who he

was

supposed to contact in Reno, to which CERRITO replied,

"DAVIS" - "you know, It's just a name like (HAROLD) SMITH or

anybody else.

ANZALONE then added,

"something had to be done

in Reno and you (Informant will have to decide if you're the

man to handle the assignment"

• CERRITO inserted,

not a gambler. You've already told SMITH who you are.

"They, know you're

With reference to CERRITO's last statement, Informant

believes

CERRITO was Indicating that informant's

mere presence in

sight of HAROLD SMITH would serve as pressure and a reminder

that the organization was serious in getting monies owed by

SMITH,

On 3/29/65, informant advised that on

3/28/65, ALEX CAMARATA informed SF 2550-C-TE that his visitor

of 3/23/65 was widow of SAM MISURACA.

SAM, deceased brother of

JOHN MISURACA, was killed in gangland fashion in the Detroit

area in 1919.

5

HH 45839 DocId: 32576623

Page 5

---

## Page 6

SF 92-593

RV: cg

ALEX did not volunteer SAM's widow's name although

he did mention that a few years following SAM's death, she

married a close friend of SAM's

at the time of his murder.

The main purpose of her visit was to deliver a

message from ALEX's father-in-law, JOHN MISURACA. She advised

ALEX that her son (or possibly grandson) is to be ordained

to the Priesthood next May in Detroit,

Michigan, and that this

ccasion would aiford an excellent time for meeting of certain

organization members in that it would attract little or no

attention of the authorities.

ALEX indicated that JOE CERRITO,

Don of the San Jose, California Family of LA COSA NOSTRA, would

be invited in addition to many other "friends" including members.

of high statue within the organization.

SF 2550-C-TE then informed ALEX as to his meeting

with JOE CERRITO and DOMINICK ANZALONE on 3/23 last, and that

he wasn't at all certain as to exactly what CERRITO and ANZALONE

had in mind with regard to the Reno situation.

ALEX then explained that CERRITO was recently in

contact with JOHN MISURACA at which time the HAROLD SMITH

matter was discussed. Upon termination of their discussion

it was agreed between the two men that should further discussion

be necessary it could

be handled by long distance phone calls

•to pre-arranged locations.

With regard to CERRITO's and ANZALONE's proposal that

informant might take it upon himself to go to Reno,

ALEX suggested

that informant "tell CERRITO and ANZALONE to shove

it", adding

that informant should aait the outcome of the Detoit meeting

planned for next May at which time a definite course of action

would be recommended.

ALEX was of the opinion that since CERRITOhas lost

much prestige on the HAROLD SMITH matter, he is naturally

desirous of showing that progress is being made at Reno, especially

noring that pros

in view of the fact that this would be one of the main topics

of discussion at the Detroit meeting. ALEX pointed out that

CERRITO and ANZALONE would not order informant to resolve the

Reno issue but were attempting to get him to volunteer for this

mission; their reason being that if informant failed they

would not lose face and therefore be further embarrassed, but

6

HH

45839 DocId: 32576623 Page 6

---

## Page 7

SP 92-593

RV: cg

If he were to be successiul, they could claim all credit

and regain their lost prestige.

ALEX added that JOHN MISURACA 1s attempting "to

get something going out here (California)" in addition to

resolving the HAROLD SMITH matter but that JOE CERRITO wants

no part of it.

ALEX said,

"JOE has the car business (Lincoln-

Mercury

dealership) and doesn't want to do anything against

the law"

"How would he feel if he didn't have any cars--

if they took it away?" "What they give they can take back.

JOE's satisfied but people in the East aren't. Like JOHN said

at Roswell, (New Mexico) they don't know what they're doing

out here.

ALEX hinted that both he and the informant may

be invited to the Detroit meeting.

LEADS:

DETROIT

AT DETROIT MICHIGAN: Will review your file entitled

"SF 2745-PC, TECTP" :

Detrolt file Number 137-3668 wherein

Detroit has conducted research in connection with the murder

Of SAM MISURACA in 1919.

Will through review ofappropriate marriage records

and/or other sources identify widow of SAM MISURACA under her

present address.

Will in a discreet manner verify her trip to California,

described above.

Will identify her son (in all probability, grandson) who

is to be ordained in Detroit, as

this person may or may not be

using the last name of MISURACA.

Will through records of the Arch Diocese covering

Detroit, determine exact date of his ordination.

Will

formulate plans to afford proper coverage

event the meeting described above does take place.

In the

7

NW 45839 DooId: 32576623 Page 7

---

## Page 8

SF 92-593

RV: cg/j1

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY: Will immediately attempt

to develop information through logical

sources that may

assist Detroit in identifying MISURACA's sister-in-law and

also his relationship to the person who is to be ordained in

May and furnish same to the Detroit Division for their assistance

in coverage of leads.

ALL OTHER OFFICES:

Copies are being furnished in the event that these

offices possibly have members in attendance at the proposed

Detroit meeting, and offices receiving copies of this communicatio:

should be alert

for any and all information relative to the

Dissemination to the above offices is not all-inclusive,

and the Bureau may desire to consider further dissemination to

any other appropriate offices.

San Francisco Division is maitaining close contact

with SF 2550-C-TE in connection with the meeting in detroit.

8

HH 45839 DocId: 32576623

Page 8

---

