# docid-32287814

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10198-10090

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-539

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/02/1962

3

CIP, INQUIRY, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : . 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE.

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 DocId: 32287814

Page 1

• 13

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

AIRTEL

Transmit the following in

Via .

FBI

Date:

6/2/62

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

OCRIMINAL INTELLICENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PCI, on 5/21/62,

advised that JULIUS KAPLAN, "front man"

for ANTHONY

RICCI (Miami File 92-112) and associated with RICCI

and FRANK DIOGUARDI (Miami File 92-405), in the operation

of the Casa Maria Restaurant and Lounge, Dade County,

Fla., made inquiry as to whether he and his wife would be

interested in staying at the Lido Beach Motel, 17301

'Collins Avenue, since there is an indication the motel

is to be sold.

and his wife operate the lounge at

this motel. He stated KAPLAN expressed interest in

the lounge and motel.

MM 509-C on 5/22/62, advised that JACK FRIEDLANDER

(Miami File 162-93) who operated the blackjack and poker

OTHER 4

- Bureau (AM)

2

• Miami

S'.

RFF/gtj

(5)

Sent

62-4-29-534

10 JUN E4 $ 1962

_M

Per

JUNSpecial Get in Charge

• NW 45760 DocId: 32287814 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

games at the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach, Florida,

the past winter season is almost broke and in view of the

decrease in activities at Miami Beach, FRIEDLANDER secured

a job as pit boss at the Golden Nugget Hotel and Gambling

Casino, Las Vegas, Nevada, for $50.00 a day. He said

FRIEDLANDER left Miami Beach for Las Vegas on 5/15 or 16/62.

This source also advised that SAM SCHWARTZ,

owner of Wolfie's Restaurant, Lincoln and Alton Roads,

Miami Beach, is going to retire and is in the process of .

selling the

restaurant to JERRY BROOKS and CHARLES TOURINE

(Miami File 92-106). He said he was told TOURINE's name

may be kept in the background and that BROOKS may act as

the "front" for TOURINE. He advised the papers have not

been signed so far, as they are attempting to "iron out"

some minor details which came up.

In addition, he advised that ROBERT GOLDBERG,

aka Bob Russell (Miami File 165-23) an employee of AL

MONES (Miami File 92-386) left the Miami area for the

Boston area, where he will allegedly operate as a bookmaker

at the Narragansett Race Track. He learned that RUSSELL's

apartment at Miami Beach has been taken over by AL MONES

where he is operating as a bookmaker.

MM 509-C also related that JOE MORRISON and his

assistant HARRY LANDOW, are still operating as bookmakers

at the Normandy Isle Golf Club, Miami Beach, for the

MICHAEL COPPOLA (Miami File 92-101) Group.

He said he

also heard MORRISON has a piece of the R. H. Berrick

Appliance Company, North Miami Beach.

He also said he

- 2 -

186-10000

NW 45760 DocId: 32287814 Page 3

---

