# docid-32337887

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/21/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES:

FBI

124-90139-10014

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR SEE TITLE

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

PAPICH

TO :

BRENNAN

TITLE:

[Restricted]

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/11/1963

Released under the John

•. kennedw

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

19.1

HH 54463

DocId: 32337887

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO." 10

5010-106.

MAY 1982 EDITION

GSA GEN.

REG.

NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

SECRES

TO

Mr. D. J. Brennan, JAM

FROM :

Mr. S. J. Papich

SUBJECT:

RENE PELLEYA Y

JUSTIZ

](S)

SOURCE OF INFORMATION - CUBA

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans -

Gale

DATE: 10/11/63

Rosen —

Sullivan -

Tavel _

ATI INFORMATTON CONTINED

Trotter -

Tele. Room

HEREIN IS UNCLASSTITED EXCEPT Holmes -

Gandy -

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE, at

. Wakenall

Subject is in the process of making plans to travel to

Brazil where he will meet with Raul Roa,

]I•,

• Cuban Ambassador to

Brazil. Pursuant to instructions,

the Liaison Agent advised CI

hat we would permit the Agency to brief (Pelleya before he departec

bearing in mind that ClA might be in a position to alert the source

concerning matters of interest to CIA.

on 10/10/63, Will Kerbe, CIA,

advised the Liaison Agent

that after analyzing the situation, CIA has decided not to interview

Pelleya-prior to his departuge. CIA is alerting its office in Rio d

Janeiro concerning Pelleya's travel. We already have an agreemen

with cIA that the Agency will not have any access to the source while

he is in Brazil. Kerbe advised that after the Bureau disseminates

its results of the debriefing of Pelleya pon his return, CIA will

then give consideration to interviewing the source.

ACTION:

The above information is being directed to the attention

of the Nationalities Intelligence Section.

10/1x/63

- Mr. Papich

N: SJP :chs

(5)

REG 32

ch

4-2-98

-112

CLASSIFIED BY 566805LD/NSR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

(JFK)

(34-142063-2318

2 0C1 17 1965

Declassify on/

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

KP 3-1998

SECRET

NH 54463 DocId:32337887 Page 2

---

