# docid-32330425

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

FBI

124-90090-10088

HQ

105-84265-29

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Record=

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

HQ

MM

DATE : 02/10/1960

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

JUAN FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS: 4nclassified

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

AT

v9.1

HH 54460

15

DocId: 32330425

Page 1

---

## Page 2

COREENTIAL

Ут. Допагов

Mr.: Cotter

Кт. Мавоо

Пойтивту 10, 2960

AlTEAL

DECLASSFIED BY SPI& MACILSE

on 5-0-94 CUFFK

APPROPRIATE AGENCIES

daS

ATT

G

s/ir.,

ALL ICORMATIOA CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

HH

100 CAG

• Nes 107105-2307)

(570100472)

troms Director, TET (205-84765)-29

REG 75

JUAN BUXHAVZNTUEA LUCENTOEX - 131

FARMANDEL DE GASTRO RODRIGUES, AT AL.

ROLANDO ARGADIO NARFERRER

ROJAB - VIOLIN

KTANAPPINE • CQMIPIRAGY

INTERNAL SUBURITY - CUBA

813181

CLASS.&

B32842PMVI BAlDM

REASON-FCIN

1-2.4.2

DATE OF REVIEN

813/91

BATOP BA MILLION B. Hollands 8/3/00.

Сотот pago ( of aAp, parAgrapi one, ANto SOTAh that on

1/23/60 your Offlos advined Manintant Unlted Statre Attorney Bater

Chas no arIminaL TOCOTA UNB PrOTA On UltroT subjeot at the time

of arrest. Your attantion to directed to the faot that farmandes

SAN ON OTTBBt TODATE UNdAY FBI NURDOT OCU305E Refer to UTiet

08 5/24/57, ратадтарр поарот 4. If not AlTaady done, JUTПI8»

POTEIANAT INFOTAGLION ОООСТЧІ ҐАТНЕТЧ'! РГІОҐ «ТТЕФЇ ТЕСОТ

tO AURA BATOR.

Dover page d of Tatep taparts that during

seaTon of hotel toon of Valdes subRoquart to blo arrest,

lottero cord papara mere looated Mion say do partinent do thie

sase.". You have futcher aduleod that no praduation of there lettero

huss yot boon node. No doad ls set forth for your offles so tepor:

on thia potat and thie should have bean done. Hatrover, since it

1a quite possible that those papera and lotters may be extranaly

relative to thie one l'oT example, they may contaln inatruations

or other information unich vould lini Valden so Guson afflolala In.

annuation with thie bidrapping ploti, you should expedito a

thorough toulou of she material in question and adules the Bureau

tamedlately 09426 +8048808 8768 TeNsen.

Portinens data scoural

Tolson

Mohr .

Parsons

Belmont

Callahan

3 SPIN. PO

De Loach

Malone

McGuire

Rosen a

Tamm

KBI

Trotter

- W.C. Sullivang

Tele. Room

ady =

62 FEB 234960V

CONFI

MAILED 27

FEB 1 0 1960

COMM-FBI

NTIAL'

54460

DocId: 32330425

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDE PALAL

Airtel to SAC, Miami

Re:

JUAN BUENAVENTURA EUGUNIO

FERNANDEZ DE CASTRO RODRIGUEZ,

ET Abo

ROLANDO ARCADIO MASFERRER

ROJAS - VICTIM

105-84265

Rerep sets forth that, according to Lee Napier

of the Miami Police Department,

Mrs. Taaffe advised him that

she was telephonically contacted by haul Castro with regard

to this matter. Allegedly, Francisco Rodriguez Couceiro

listened in via an extension telepnone on one conversation

between Tasife and Raul Castro.

Your report fails to indicate

that you questioned urs. loaffe concerning the reported tele-

phone call she received from haul castro.

It not already doe,

immediately interview urs. Taaffe on this point and furnish

results in report form.

In view of the discrepancies between the stories

offered by Mrs. laaife,

Valdes,

Fernandes and Napier, every

effort should be made to determine Mrs. Tauffe's contacts dir

ing the period previous to

You should check

Mrs. Taafje's long-distance toll calls for the month of January,

1960. In this connection, cover pages c and D of rerep indicate

that, according to mu 639-s, Fernando Cobe of the Cuban National

Folice, when advised of subject's arrest, indicated a desire to

contact Mrs.. Taaffe by telephone.

It is noted that Mrs.

Taaffe is presently the

subject of a separate investigation, New York origin, in which

your office is participating.

In view of the pertinent infor

mation developed concerning Mrs. Taaffe in this matter, you

should have furnished New York with a copy of rerep.

A copy

this report is being forwarded to New York with this airtel,

and Mtami should designate copies of future reports for New Vorko

Moreover, all pertinent date developed concerning Taaffe in

this case should he reported. by Miami under the Tacife caption.

Rerep.

beginning

on page 19, lists various items found

possession of Valdes at the time of his arrest.

This material

includes the names and or phone numbers or addresses of various

individuals located in the Miami area: for example, R. M. Brooks,

Arthur Rosenfeld, Robert I. Bell, Ben I. Jones and Jack Ahlstead.

Rerep sets forth the results of an interview with Rosenjeld

concerning his inowledge of valdes.

However, no leads are set

forth to further identify or interview the other indivtduals listed

and there is no indication that your office plans to pursue inese

leads.

Innediately conduct inquiries to identify the individuals

involved and to interview them for any pertinent

information they

might have, unless specific reasons exist which would preclude such

interviews.

- 2 -

CONIDENTIAL

NW 54460 DooId: 32330425

Page 3

---

