# docid-32307576

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/19/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10292-10279

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

CR 105-143199-13

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

uasassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/31/1966

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

LRA, EMP, IBARGUEN, JERONIMO MARINOVIC, ASSOC,

BUSS, WHEREABOUTS, UNK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32307576

Page 1

---

## Page 2

TO

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10.10

MAY 1962 EDITION

GSA FPMR (41 CFR). 101-11.6

UNITED STATES Gy

ERNMENT

Memorandum

pArator, TAX 1205-1432991 SECRETOris: 3/31/00

SAC, New Orleans (105-2492) (P)

JERONIMO MARINOVIC PBARGUEN

IS - BOLIVIA

SUBJE

1-30195

classifled by. Sp

Declassify on:

COMi

ASSIFIED

NOWN

JADE JFK

On 3/17/66, PSI EDUARDO GUEVARA advised SAs NORMAN F.

STULTZ and WARREN C. deBRUEYS that approximately in June of

1965 LUISKRABEL, an anti-Castro Cuban, with whom he is

acquainted and who is employed by the Southern Scrap Company

in New Orleans, called GUEVARA's office, 233 Chartres Street,

RISI

with the subject.

record

IBARGUEN was interested in going into the marble import

B15668 SeMeSe

business, importing marble from Italy.

IBARGUEN wanted to

= 98 (JER)

write a letter on the letterhead of GUEVARA's business, Concrete

corporation

Controls, Inc., which GUEVARA permitted him to do.

GUEVARA gave

IBARGUEN a few

sheets of his letterhead for additional corres-

pondence.

IBARGUEN allegedly had friends in Milan, Italy.

GUEVARA did not enter into any type of business relationship

with IBARGUEN.

GUEVARA indicated IBARGUEN had mentioned some-

thing about going to Florida to get a burist court.

e- Biabill

in the spar

IBARGUEN left a business card with GUEVARA which reads,

TO

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION

DECLASSIRCACON AND/OR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIOND

N THIS DOCUMENT: + 10-25-976-45-68

"The Warf Corporation, 4518 South Tonti Streetvi?, President,

13171, New Orleans, Louisiana,

Marinovic,

telephone 822-4585.

The card also reflected the following:

"Import and export, purchasing, representing, consulting, in-

vestments, agents.

On the back of this card in writing was

the name MARINOVIC plus telephone 488-1153, followed by the

words in Spanish,

"telefono casa" (home phone).

This file is

being made part of the exhibit section of instant file.

GUEVARA related that sometime approximately in July, 1965

LUIS RABEL told GUEVARA that the subject had gone to Brazil.

EX-101

REC-42 105.

Sometime shortly before "Christmas,

196543199-

, IBARGUEN again

contacted GUEVARA about the possibility of GUEVARA building

high

rise apartments in Brazil. GUEVARA advised he did not give

IBARGUEN any encouragement. GUEVARA then said IBARGUEN mentioned

B59304370 ASK

Bureau (RM)

- WFO (105-66869) (RM)

2

- New Orleans

NFS: jame

(6)

2 APR I 1966

SECRET

HHT

f3130

d: 32307576

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plane

LATIN- AMDRICAN

---

## Page 3

NO 105-2492

SECRET

that he had connects in Peru.

A few days later he showed up

with a friend from Chile in his twenties, who is a naturalized

United States citizen, at which time IBARGUEN mentioned about

having an order in cable form for 300 trucks from the government

of Chile.

GUEVARA was very dubious about this because the cable

said nothing about specifications and merely said the government

wanted 300 trucks. GUEVARA felt that this did not seem the

legitimate way of

doing business in view of the general nature

thereof.

GUEVARA advises that he had not heard any more from

IBARGUEN since Christmas, 1965 and has no information regarding

his present whereabouts.

GUEVARA advised that in the event he

should receive any additional information regarding IBARGUEN's

whereabouts he would advise this office.

Bureau is requested to search indices on

S, lY Wo will review CIA files concerning "The Marf Corporation" (W

и)

SECRET

MH 53130 DocTd: 32307576 Page 3

---

