# docid-32316336

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/27/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10346-10456

RECORD SERIES:

BU

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : ELSUR 92-61-823

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: JENKINS

TO: BU

TITLE:

DATE: 07/17/1963

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

STEVE MAGADDINO, (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/09/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 45848 DocId: 32316336 Page 1

---

## Page 2

SAC (92-197) (P)

7/17/63

SA FRANCIS B. JENKINS

VINCENT A. SCRO

AR

Set forth below is information furnished by

BU 82-0 concerning events which pecurred at Buffalo, Hew Iork,

on the dates indicated.

On 6/26/63 CI advised that SCRO had met JERRY

(DOROBIALA) and discussed their various externisating

When JERRY raised the question as to how

Attorney AL PACINI was progressing with the corporation

SCRO contacted PACINI telophonicelly.

Upon completing

SCRO told JERKY that PACINI does not need any

additional papers and that he had told PACINI to go ahead.

JERRY roninded SCRP that in three months it would ba a year,

apparently referring to the dote on which the bustness enterprise

was initiated.

Later on 6/26/63 JAMES V. LA DUCA diseussed with

BC30 problens he was having in the

collection of

various aecounts.

SCRO pointed out that one custoner owed them$600 and $700

while only owing $300 to the Frontier (Linen Supply Company).

SCHO and LA DUCA then had an argument, with LA DUCA

claiming that 1f he does not receive a raise ho vill have to

sell his house.

lie pointed out that he has cancelled his 118e

insurance polloties and had to berrow $1,500 to hely with househole

expenses.

IA DUCA complained of having only one pair of shoes

but at the sane time expressed interest in the price of a new

Oldamobile:

SCRO GOld LA DUCA

he should start looking somenhere

else to find why his salary is not sufficient.

17- 92-58 (J. V. LA DUCA) (P)

• 92-412

•(JERRY DOROBIALA)

(C)

•137-954

(P)

- 92-128 (Cel.

MONTANA> (C)

- 92-61 (STEVE

92-296

(P.

MAGADDINO)

(P)

NARARELLI)

92-268

(Pe

A a MAGADDINO) (C)

OTHER 4

1

(8)

92-61-

823

SEARCHED

_INDEXED

SERIALIZED.

FILEY

JUL 1 9 1963

FBI - BUFFALO

HW

45848

DocId: 32316336

Page 2

---

