# docid-32580604

## Page 1

FI.

1. 12-13-50 C

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

TO:

FROM:

RE:

FBI

Date:

8/9/63

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3267)

SAC, JOS ANGELES (92-113C)

JOHN ROSELLI, aka.

ROSSELLI continues to reside in Los Angeles, however,

according to LA 4396-C*, he has not stayed at his

apartment. On 8/6/63, he left his apartment dressed in

suit and went to Beverly Hills and not known to

have been in Los Angeles again until afternoon 8/7/63.

JACK WAITERS, PCI, Manager,

Beverly Crest Hotel,

Beverly Hills, advised

the about 5:00 P.M. on 8/6/63,

MAURICE H. FRIEDMAN, guest at hotel, called from Baker

or Bakersfield, California and left message for his wife

that he had arrived at this place. Hotel records show ..

Mrs. FRIEDMAN, who was also guest at hotel called her-

husband on evening of 8/6/63, at their Las Vegas residence.

WALTERS of opinion FRIEDMAN and ROSSELLI were together.

Baker is city between usual automobile route between

Los Angeles and Las Vegas.

WALTERS further advised that on 8/7/63, MAURICE

FRIEDMAN requested Beverly Crest Hotel to register VICKIE

LOCKWOOD of Las Vegas as a guest.

She was assigned Room

#204. At about 12:30 P.M. on 8/7/63, ROSSELLI appeared at

the hotel and requested

given the key to Room 204.

This room accupied by a girl on nights of 8/7 and 8/63.

8/8/63, ROSSELLI car observed parked in garage of

Beverly Crest Hotel.

92-32671

511

REG- 41

Bureau (AM) (RM)

-Los Angeles

HED: SAG

4(4)

• AUG 12

EX-103

* 1963

Approved:

WASM

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per

45945 DooId: 32580604 Page 1

---

## Page 2

LA 92-1130

Information received on 8/9/63, from Fisur and

PCI WALTERS revealed ROSSELLI's car left

hotel shortly after

1:00 P.M. although ROSSELLI not observed leaving.

His car

observed at his residence shortly before 2:00 P.M. on 8/8/63.

He leftrabout 2:30 P.M. and went to Friar's Club in Beverly

Hills.

LOCKWOOD checked out of Beverly Crest Hotel about

2:30 P.M.

Charges for room #204, while occupied by LOCKWOOD,.

to be added to account of New Frontier Hotel, Las Vegas of

which FRIEDMAN is part owner.

JUDITH CAMPBELI, aka. Judith Von Immoor, friend of

ROSSELLI and of SAM GIANCANA of Chicago, moved from her

apartment, 660 North Doheny, Los Angeles, about 0/1/03, and

current address not known.

She left no forwarding address.

Records of California Water and Telephone Co.

reveal that on 7/30 and 31/63, JUDITH VON IMMOOR made a

number of telephone calls from the telephone listed to

JERRY NATHANSON Enterprises, 324 Overlook Road, Palm Springs,

California.

These calls included calls to Armory Lounge,

Forest Park, Ill, alleged hangout of SAM GIANCANA and to

telephone listed

tO JOHN MATASA, 1655 Nashville, Chicago,

Illinois, allegedly a bodyguard of SAM GIANCANA.

VON INMOUR

gave as a referral number the non-published telephone number

Of EDDIE FISHER, well known entertainer, Beverly Hills,

California.

-2-

raid-wit

HH

45945

DocId: 32580604

Page 2

---

