# docid-32293532

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/14/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10211-10308

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-6054-205

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

SAC, SF

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/27/1963

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

LCN, COMMISSION, MEMBERS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32293532 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Relea

red under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 19927t4-1S6?

DArT

Mr.

Mr. Belmont

17.

Mr. Mohr_

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

F B I

Mr. Conrade

Mr. DeLoach

Date:

2/27/63

Mr.

Evans

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Transmit the following in

Mr.

Sullivan

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr.

Tavel ..

Mr. Trotter.

Via

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

Tele. Room-

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Miss Holmes.

Miss_Gandy_

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC, DENVER

FROM:

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (92-593)

"LA CAUSA NOSTRA"

AR - CONSPIRACY

Hotel

upon

SF-2550-C-TE advised SA ROY L. ERICKSON this date that he

was visiting with ALEX CAMARATA, a neighbor of his, last night.

(It is noted the informant and CAMARATA are both members of

the above organization and were involved with PETE MISURACA

in an attempted extortion of HAROLD SMITH, part owner of

Harold's Club, Reno, Nevada, based on an alleged debt owed

to PETE MISURACA on

the part of HAROLD SMITH.

Several trips

were taken to Reno by ALEX CAMARATA, PETE MISURACA and the

informant in this connection.

Lately,

there has been a dispute

between the three since PETE MISURACAis desirous of continuing

efforts, even though the "organization" has ordered it be

dropped

REC 11 95-6054-205

During the discussiga

tor the time peat went an the man

were talking about past history of PETE-MISURACA and the

informant mentioned that he recalled PETE MISURACA once

stating that he had been to Jackson Hole, Wyoming, with

HAROLD SMITH. ALEX CAMARATA became very upset over this,

stating that PETE should not have mentioned this.

CAMARATA

stated that the "organization" had checked up on PETE

MISURACA and his activities at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, through

a person he identified as LOUIE BOSCHETTO (phn.).

identified this individual as a

"friend ef ours which, in

- Bureau (AM)

& MAR 5 1963

2

- Denver (AM)

-

1 - Las Vegas

5

(Info) (AM)

- San Francisco

92-593)

ALEX CAMARATA)

LEB CO (1

PETE MISURACA)

CIP)

559561 39-2559-B-T71 =

Quiet

*C. C. Wick

RLE: jab

(110)

Approved:

Sent.

_M Per

*Special Agent in Charge

DocId: 32293532

Page 2

---

