# docid-32327810

## Page 1

[| Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/21/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90066-10051

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 09/16/1964

PAGES:

16

SUBJECTS :

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA:

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

DocId: 32327810

8

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection'AOt of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Note).

FD-1

Aa TReV. 5-1-591

5-1-59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

DATE

SEP 1 6 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/12 - 8/24/64

REPORT MADE BY

EUGENE J. HINDES

SALVATORE

GRANELLO aKa

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

wird

REFERENCES

not type to the does, ted 1/15/60 6) ,..

-P-

ENCLOSURES (2) TO THE BUREAU:

Two copies of a letterhead memorandum setting forth

the characterizations of the informants utilized in the instant

report.

ADMINISTRATIVE

On 1/27/64, NY 4317-C advised that he met ROCKY

GRAZIANO on the evening of 7/24/64, at Toots Shor's Restaurant,

in Manhattan. The informant confronted GRAZIANO with the

information recently

exploited in the NY newspapers which

indicated that GRAZIANO was cooperating with the Nassau. County

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

"COPIES MADE:

- Bureau (92-3960) AEneTs 2u)

- USA,

SDNY

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3960-78

2 - Miami (92-442) 614F0)

(1-Departmental Attorney

WILLIAM KENNEY,

Miami, Fla.)

- Newark (92-274)

1

York (92-658 Sub A)

SEP 1O464

- New

York (92-1108)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd!

Date Fwd.

How Fwd

By

7 0 NOV

10/1

541964

DocId: 32327810 Page 2

excorpts

RECONDEN GUIX FILED IN

REC 5

ST-109

---

## Page 3

PReleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE (continued)

authorities relative to the recent arrest of the subject

GRAZIANO stated that GRANELLO

and his associates are

for Attempted Extortion"all washed up" and he, GRAZIANO,

has

, "nothing to do with them".

The informant was of the opinion that GRAZIANO

remains in close association with CRANeLLo and is skeptical

concerning the reports that GRAZIANO will testify against

GRANELLO.

The informant added that he expects/BRANELLO

will endeavor to "fix" the charges against him.

The informant further commented that several years

ago GRAZIANO expected to develop a system whereby commercials

would be played on juke boxes.

However, this prospect did

not materialize, but the informant believes that GRAZIANO

expected to develop this set up with IRVING HOLZMAN, the

victim of Attempted Extortion by GRANELLO.

Due to the sensitive nature of the foregoing

information and the fact that it is mostly conjecture on

the part of the informant, this information has not been

included in the details of this report.

On 8/14/64, NY 4317-8

advised that he heard from

PETE PETRELLA that the subject owes his life to ROCKY

CRAZIANO. The informant is of the opinion that GRAZIANC

has probably made arrangements for a "fix" in the subject's

pending income tax case.

On 8/24/64, NY 4461-C advised SA PAUL G. DURKIN

that he has not seen

the subject in the recent past,

but

was told that GRANELLO is not at all worried about his

arrest for Attempted Extortion in Nassau County, NY.

According to the information received by the informant,

arrangements have been made to take care of the matter for

the subject.

COVER PAGE

DocId:32327810 Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS

Identity of Source

NY T-1

Investigator GERARD F.

STROMMER, New York State

Police, Monroe, New York

NY T-2

NY 4461-C

NY T-3

NY 4336-C

Mr. NORMAN LEVY

Assistant District Attorney,

Nassau County, New YOrk

(Due to position)

NY I-5

AL 3050-PC

NY T-6

Inspector JOHN LADA,

Nassau County Police Department

Mineola, New York

(Due to

position)

NY T-7

SA JOSEPH FERRISE

Internal Revenue Service

120 Church Street

New York

Contacting Agent

SAS EUGENE J. HINDES and

WALTER E. TAYLOR

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

SA JOHN P. HERLIHY, JR.

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SAS JOHN B. BJORKLUND, JR.

and EUGENE J. HINDES

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

COVER PAGE

DocId: 32327810

Page 4

---

