# docid-32138909

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification Forn

walt.

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10058-10425

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

62-109060-4018

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/28/1965

2

JFK, SUSPECT, BARRAGAN, JORGE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/1994

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DbdId: 32138909

Page 1

23

---

## Page 2

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Notej:-

DATE: 11-14-2017

OPTIONAL

ONAS FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GU VERNMENT

Memorandum

ECRET

TO

: Director, FBI (62-109060)

FROM AlLegat, Mexico (89-6) (P)

SUBJECT:

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD, KENNEDY,

11/22/63,- DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION

CONCERNING

*DATE:

5/28/65

ADROPRIATE AGENCIES

AND 11

FICE

ADVISED

SI. 73

OFA

DATE

20n

ATE INFORYATION CONCATHED

ESI0TBD

HaSINES 0

Re Dallas airtel 2/2/65.

As the Bureau and Dallas were advised by Mexico

City letters dated 2/4/65 and 12/21/64, the Acting Director

of the Mexican Federal Security Police, Captain FERNANDO

(GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, waS

contacted with respect to JORGE

5/3/93

Grassified by 980 3add

RADE RE

Deolassify on.

male

magazine,

and advised that he would seek an

opportunity for interviewing BARRAGAN discreetly with respec

invest latter alleged knowledge of interest to captioned

mexico

Captain GUTIERREZ BARRIOS has been recontacted on

ПАК)

several occasions with respect to the foregoing matter andl/

advised on 5/18/65 that BARRAGAN has proved to be extremely

difficult to locate for interview.

Furthermore, as a result

of his additional inquiries concerning BARRAGAN, he has become

definitely convinced that it would be undesirable to "honor

an interview on this subject."

He related that he

has ascertained that BARRAGAN is completely unscrupulous,

an opportunist and capable of extortion and blackmail in his

He added that if BARRAGAN had been

in possession of any information of value, he undoubtedly

would have sought out United States or Mexican authorities

in order to impart that information.

He expressed the personal

opinion and conviction that BARRAGAN

had sought an interview

with Chief Justice WARREN or members of?the Warren Commission

- Bureau

(1 - Liaison

Section)

# 99060-9995

TИ S

(2 - Dallas,

89-43)

3 58 bH

H29E365

1 - Mexico City

RLL: jhk

(6)

2040

ce's DL

HART JUN 2 1965

Exempt from

x0- 7 6/2165-

GECEIAFD

SECRETI

itaried For S730

72311

Б6JUN8 1965°

DocId: 32138909

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

MC 89-6

wit:

in order to seek a basis for personal aggrandizement and

publicity.

Captain GUTIERREZ Keaffirmed his desire to

cooperate with the Bureau and the Mexico City office but stated

that he would prefer not to interview BARRAGON or have him

interviewed by Agents of the Mexican Federal Security Police.

He added his personal recommendation that he not be contacted

by personnel or sources of the Legal Attache's office.(S)

In view of the foregoing and unless advised to the.

contrary, the Mexico City office will make nörfurther efforts

to have BARRAGAN interviewed in connection with captioned matter y

LEAD

MEXICO CITY OFFICE

At Mexico, D. F., Mexico

Will locate and interview LOUIS HEREDIA ANCONA,

Manuel N.

Ponce 304, Mexico 20, D. F., with respect to any

knowledge

he may have in connection with captioned investigation. U

- 2 SECRET

DocId: 32138909

Page 3

---

