# docid-32309597

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/30/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10299-10008

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-13084-6

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

collection Act of 1992

144 USe 2107 Notel.

Cased: NW 53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, BT

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/27/1951

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

MRS. IV, DESCR, ASSOC, EMP, ANTI-COMMUNIST

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/01/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC RPT

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32309597

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

BT 105-131

ADMINISTRATIVE PAGE

T-2 has recounted that he first met Dr. TULCHIN during September,

1947, at a DP Camp in Bremen, Germany.

The Informant stated that he lived

in the same room with TULCHIN for about one month. According to the Informant,

there were five occupants in this room. Concerning the other three individ-

uals who lived in the previously mentioned room, the Informant gave the follow

ing information:

I. IGOR VOSHININ, 418 Wyona Street, Brooklyn 7, New York

Height

Age

Weight

Hair

Eyes

Peculiarities

Nationality

Marital Status

Relatives

61.1"

About 46

170 lbs.

Bald - brown fringe

Gray

Wears glasses

Russian

Married

'NATALIE VOSHININ of New York

City, Wife

The Informant stated that VOSHININ was a civil engineer. He was

presently employed as a contractor by a steel company in New York City.

He said that he had known VOSHININ in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, and that VOSHININ

had been married in Painchevo, Yugoslavia, He recalled that VOSHININ had

been in close contact with Dr. TULCHIN; however, VOSHININ was believed to

be anti-Cormunist and reliable. T-2 expressed the belief that VOSHININ

would be able to furnish the address of another of Dr. TULCHIN's roommates-

one HODORORSKY.

HODORORSKY, Address unknown

Height

51 4' to 515"1

Weight

170 lbs.

Hair

Black

Eyes

Brown

Age

Nationality

56

Russian

T-2 declared that HODORORSKY was a graduate of the Whité Russian

Cadet Corps, Bela Crkva, Yugoslavia, some

fifteen years ago, He explained

that the full name of this cadet corps was "The Russian Cadet Corps of the

Great Constantine Constanovich." The Informant recalled that HODORORSKY had

attended the University of Zagrev,

He expressed the opinion that HODORORSKY

was anti-Communist and reliable,

NW 53130 DooId: 32309597

Page 2

---

