# docid-32336522

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/8/2015

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90134-10106

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4579-30

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LV

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/25/1968

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

NICHOLAS PETER DANOLFO

EDWARD PIERPONT MORGAN

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

rice.

v9.1

HW 45884 DocId: 32336522 Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 i Rev. 3-8-477

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

LAS VEGAS

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

LAS VEGAS

NICHOLAS PETER DANOLFO, aka

DATE

4/25/68

REPORT MADE BY

MICHAEL G. SIMON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

7/28/67 - 4/17/68

AR

TYPED BY

d1l

REFERENCE:

Report of SA MICHAEL G. SIMON, dated 7/19/67 at

Las Vegas.

-c -

ADMINISTRATIVE:

The investigative period in this report is excessive,

however, the matter has received continuous investigation.

The observations of DANOLFO were made on numerous

occasions during the investigative period by SA MICHAEL G.i

SIMON.

CONVIC¡AUTO.

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED

FINES

NONE

Daus

3-Bureau (92-4579)

1-Las Vegas (92-274)

SAVINGS

RECOVERIES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

ACQUIT-

TALS

CASE HAS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE, YEAR (X]YES CINC

PENDING SOME UPON

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-4519-30

REC 6

NS APR 29

1968

Agency

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

CO. A.:G/ Criminal Division,

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

Organized Crime and Racketeering

Notations

NW 45884 DocId: 32336522 Page 2

---

## Page 3

LV 92-274

The information reflected in the records of the

Cleveland Retail Credit Mens Company, as obtained by

IC CECIL E. MOSES on 7/13/67, indicates Doctor NICHOLAS

PARADISE and his wife, the former MARGARET STILLWAGNER,

reside at 4076 Princeton Avenue, South Euclid, Ohio.

It is recognized that investigation of the subject has

reflected he is well acquainted with hoodlums all over the

United States. Further, that numerous allegations have been

made that the

subject has had "hidden interests" in or

represented "hidden interests" in Las Vegas gambling casinos

and investigation has not substantiated this, this investigation

is being closed. Any pertinent information concerning the

subject in the future will be cause to reopen this investigation

in order to establish a violation within the AR statute.

INFORMANTS:

Source

Date Contacted

Contacting Agent

LV T-l is

IV 10-C

7/28/67

SA ARTUR N. BARRETT

LV T-2 is

CV-553 -C-TE

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

LV T-3 is

CV 701-PC

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

LV T-4 is

CV 583-PC

LV T-5 is being used

to further conceal

LV-10-C

LV T-6 is MiSS LOUISE

GODEL, Somerset Inn,

Shaker Heights, Ohio

(Requested)

LV T-7 is PCI

7/3/67

Cleveland Agent

8/7/67

SA LOTE KINNEY, JR.

8/18/67

Cleveland Agent

19/13/67

SA LYNNE G. TWEDE

OTHER 4

- B -

COVER PAGE

NW 45884 DocId: 32336522 Page 3

---

