# docid-32330172

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/1/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90089-10207

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-344127-NR

Released under the John

* • Kenned

Assassination Recordi

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 54460 Date:

10-04-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: MM

TITLE :

DATE: 09/08/1959

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

FRANCISCO AGUIRRE BACA

ROLANDO MASFERRER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT.

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

v9.1

HH 54460

DocId: 32330172

Page 1

---

## Page 2

AND FIELD

STING SLIT

OAF

0+ L

Tolson

Belinont

DeLoach

MeGuire

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

T'amm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan

Tele. Room

Holloman -

Gandy -

540, Wlant

APo

ter

- Mr.

Nasca

• B7o Gittle

Septender B= 1959

SECKET

Parector, 12

APFROPRCATE

AGENCIES

AND FIEL

FICES

ADVISED

PRANOrSCO MOWERA BAGA

SLIP (S)

HOYFING

INZURNAL SOURIAL - NICARAGUA

DATE

(Most 1120 - 205-1825)

1020 2020

105-30224)

(Bugt80 • 62-77704)

MARCOS FIREZ JIMENE

13 - VENESUCEA

ALL INFORMATION

CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCL

ASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN THERWISE.

(Miams 1ile • 109939)

(New Tort file - 62-21822)

101a119

(Bufile - 209-283)

AUGUSTO MARIA PURRANDO

IS - DONTOM REPUBLIC

(tant 8020-105-2571)

(Buffle • 109-64)

classed byal calons

Bourtet of 8/26/59 roguesting Bureau authority

interolen Marcos Fetis Macnea, lariono Paget Diass

and Rotando Mosferrer in connection with captioned inuestle

gatlons:

Vou are anthorized to conduce the interuleues

however»

In questioning Perez Jinones regarding the pay

ment of 140,000 to Augusto Lapto Farrondo, core ghould be

enerodead in order to protect the Tiral National Bank of

Blant an the poureco. Care should also be exercised to

ORIGINAL FILED EN

prosect the identity of lo Irving Davidoon on a source

for information regording Franciaco Aguirre Boedo

The reoul to

of these interoleus should be stor

mitted in report fom and under the appropriate captions.

Hashington Pield

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

* New

• Zork

DECLASSIFY: "0:: AND/OR,

200-344227

(Rolande wasterrer)

RELEASE C: A NORMATION:

64-22931

(Mariano Fogot

SN THIS DOCUS ENT. KM 10-9-9

Shes gmi

(28)

DECLASSITED BY 566S S00/8R/ 10-544131

Of ..ns..e

11-22 47/5710

SES MOZU PACE IVO

NO":

ORDED

172 SEP

1959

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT L

DUNLICATE

SEP 8 - 1959

MAILED

SECRET:

NH 54460

DooId:32330172

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Lotter to SAC, Miont

Res

Franoiaoo Aguitre Baod

62-77794

100-

Blarços

Peror Jimmea

109-283

Ret

Augusto Marte Ferrando

109+0

SECRET

Bracketed

choosified

9803 KAd,

Bin Hote

- Cia's

9-4/92 00r

: 1211326

Franoisco Agutrre Bace, pard ouner of epiario

Los Anertoco, " a Spanteh-longuige neuspaper published in

contactedles

font and has been cooperative in the pant with the Dureau. mata

CIA report dated 1/21/59 alleged aubject one e group

Of Nicaraguan exiles in Wachington, D. Cop have initiated

& move to remove General Somono fron hio position as hedd

He has been ordered to leave

Cho V, S. by INS but has appooled deelsion and recently

Venezuclan Goverrment filed entradition charging him wich

murder and embenaling funde in Veneaueld. He has prevtovaly

beon interulened by Miont Offloe. I, Irving Davidoon, when

interoleved by W7o, stoted Pedro Dadrado, Pornor head of

Tenezuelan poltoe, and Gustavo San Bonen, a wealthy Veneavelan

contractor, obated they underrote the losses of Diarto las

Anertcas" to extent of $15,000 per month to get favorable

connents in Venenuela.

Colonol vortono Taget Dion ta forner Miant

confidential cource, 492-5, and forder Chief of the Bureau

for the Repression of Cormuniot Aotibittee (BRAQ) in Cuba

and has been cooperadiue with Dureau.

Davidaon alleged

Lagat solo hin prior to yant of Bacaesa, Prancsoco Aguirre

overed to use his influence and newspuper to asstat

bettoring publte opinion of Bottata for 115,000 to $30,000.

d(rx)

Former Cuban senator, Rotando Masferrer le now

in litant area under INS parole.

He hao been in contact with

intont Offtee previously.

Davidson alleged Pranejoco Aguirre

recently made an euscecaful trip to Domintoon Republie

to sell his neuspoper to that joverment und had been sent

thero by Musferrero Augusto Marla Terrando, Dominican

concul, Miant, entered U. S. in carly 1959 inder an enquater

issued

by State Department which renders

hem liable to

prosecution. He has deen dotive in anti-Contro plossing:

has a notorious recond as intelligence agent and was attended

in Move 1959, attempting to bribe a Gustóne offteral

151

SECR

HH

54460

DooId: 32330172

Page 3

---

