# docid-32989747

## Page 1

File #:

62-117290

SECTION 25

Serial Scope:

1452

1472

DO NOT

DESTROY

FCHPA#

IN 55018 Docid: 32989747 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Memorandum

Mr. Boutwell

Date 11/24/93

From

K. M. Boyle

Subject:

THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (ISCA)

INVESTIGATION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. MARTIN LUTHER

KING, JR.

PURPOSE:

To facilitate the placement of xeroxed copies and

ticklers of the FBI material previously requested by the HSCA,

concerning the circumstances of the assassination of DR. MARTIN

LUTHER KING, JR. into Bufile 62-117290.

RECOMHENDATION:

That the above-referenced materials be made an

enclosure (168 boxes) to this memorandum and maintained as a

bulky exhibit to Bufile 62-117290, inasmuch as they have been

made available to the HSCA.

IRTAILS: In compliance with numerous requests from the HSCA, the

former Congressional Inquiry Unit (organized to respond to

requests from the HSCA for FBI records concerning PRESIDENT

KENNEDY and DR. KING) made copies of FBI records available as

sought by the HSCA.

Upon completion of its assigned tasks, the

Congressional Inquiry Unit disbanded and made its compilation of

records available to the Freedom of Information-Privacy Acts

Section, due to extensive FOIA litigation in both the KENNEDY and

KING assassination matters.

Currently the copies of FBI records concerning the

assassination of PRESIDENT KENNEDY are being reviewed in

accordance with the "president John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of

1992."

Because of the public's continued interest in the

alleged circumstances surrounding the assassination of DR. KING

it is anticipated that the subject of this memorandum will

eventually become the target of a Freedom of Information Act

request.

It is, therefore, deemed appropriate that these

materials be made a part of a retrievable permanent record.

ENC - 1-Bucky

62-117790-1472

1- K. M. Boyle

1- G. D. Ralph-M'Kissic

GDR: dnt (3)

OK TOR

1N 33048 Do01d:32989747 Page 2

---

## Page 3

ti-

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

memorandum

DATE:

REPLY TO

ATTN OF:

SUBJECT:

TO:

ATTN:

SEP 2 0 1979

OPR

Martin Luther King, JI. Task Force Report

William H. Webster, Director EDERAL GOVERNMENT

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Congressional Inquiry Unit

Special Investigative Division

Reference is made to my memorandum to former Director

Kelley dated June 2, 1977, and captioned as above (copy

attached) • By that memorandum, the Bureau was requested

to retain custody of "Appendix C" to the King Report

during the pendency of the House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HSCA) inquiry.

Since the HSCA has completed their inquiry, this

memorandum is to request the return of Appendix C to

this Office.

Thank you for your past assistance in this matter.

MiLE Shal

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Counsel

Office of Professional Responsibility

alang

RETURNGI

JOSEPH GROSS, OPA, DOS:

VOLS

perero i/20/79 oTa

прішо їх

ALSO RETURNED 1C6

X1a5 662-111-294-1452

5 SEP 24 1979

<ENCLOSURE

?:::

i ..

kitc

•+2-119270

Buy U.S..Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

630CT 111979

DocId: 32989747

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

(REV. 7-76)

GSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

5010-112

---

## Page 4

June 2, 1977

OPR

Martin Luther King, JI. Task IoIce Report

Clarence M. Kelley, Director

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Attn: Congressional Inquiry Unit

Special Investigative Division

This will confirm the telephone conversation at

3:30 p.I., this date between S.A. Jay Aldhizer, Congressional

Inquiry Unit, and Joseph F. GrOSS, JI., of my staff concerning

Appendix C to the Martin Luther King, JI. Task Force Report.

It is my understanding that your review and classification

of. Appendix C is complete.

But the appendix contains material

relating to sensitive sources which the Bureau would want to

review for excision if the appendix is ever disseminated to

interested parties such as the House Select Committee on

Assassinations.

MI..

Gross has also advised me that during the time in

which this additional review may be necessacy the Bureau

has agreed to retain custody of the appendix. After this

period the appendix is to be

returned to this Office.

Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated.

/51

Michael E. Shaheen, Jr., Counsel

Office of Professional Responsibility

602-117270-1-5s

ENCLOSURE

HH 55018 DocId: 32989747

Page 4

---

