# docid-32296340

## Page 1

éleased under the John I. Kernedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

Identification Form

5/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10217-10116

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-6054-155

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: ANDREWS, LEON F. JR.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/14/1963

PAGES:

40

SUBJECTS:

LCN,.BKG, LEADERSHIP, GAMBLING, ARSON, SYRACUSE,

NY, BU, NY, MISUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

RPT, TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE 2

v9.1

DocId: 32296340

Page 1

15

---

## Page 2

Released under the

DATE: 11-14-2017-59-54,F. Kennedy Assassination Records CaTTeation Aat At 1992 (a1 U5C 2107 Note)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

BUFFALO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

THE CRIMINAI. "COMMISSION;"

ETAL, BUFFALO DIVISION

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/14/63

7/1-12/20/62

REPORT MADE BY

LEON F. ANDREWS, JR. (A)

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

ars

REFERENCE:

#

Report of SA(A) LEON F. ANDREWS, JR., dated

4/30/62, at Buffalo.

-P-

APPROVED

COPIES MADE

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU

Two (2) copies of letterhead memorandum, showing

characterizations of informants utilized in the preparation

of this report.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

This report contains information regarding the criminal

"commission"

as developed by the Buffalo Division since submission

of referenced report.

Information copies of this report are being

forwarded to the Albany, Detroit, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-6054-155

REG. 58

See Cover Page

"B"

file?

COPIESUDESTROVED

TiL ice 10 MAN 20 1005

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

Agency

Request Recd

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

By

Eijiy

6 2 MAN 30.

363

1, 34

DocId: 32296340 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassiñation Records Colleption Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

BU 92-337

December 6, 1902. Because a great portion of the information

the assistance

of the Bureau and the New York Office was requested to translate

and report upon the significance of the meeting at Buffalo,

New York, on September 24, 1962.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of

Source

BU T-1

BU T-2

BU T-3

BU T-4

BU T-5

BU T-6

BU T-7

BU T-8

Location

JOSEPH VALACHI, subject of case

captioned "JOSEPH VALACHI, aka -

AR,

" (NY origin), interviewed in

New York City.

BU 82-C*

BU 258-C*

SA VA TOUR GIVE SEE Agent,

Buffalo, New York

Dr. VICTOR L. PELLICANO,

760 Main Street, Niagara Falls,

New York

NORMAN RIVARD, Senior

Investigator, BCI, New York:

State Police

PH 614-C-TE

PH 623-C

-C*-

COVER - PAGE

DocId: 32296340

Page 3

---

