# docid-32291305

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10207-10081

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-9-29-679

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/12/1963

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIP, GAMBLING, RACK AND SUBV

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

RESTRICTIONS:

Unclassified

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/30/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45760 Docid: 32291305 Page 1

31

---

## Page 2

FD-88 (Rev. 12-13-56)

J.°

105-7.

Transmit the following in

Via

•FBI

Date: 7/12/63

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-29)

SAC, MIAMI (92-515) (P)

OCRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

MIAMI DIVISION

10H

WEEKLY SUMMARY

PCI, advised that JOHN ROMANO,

aka JACK ROMANO is remodeling a

building at 295 Sunny Isle

Blva., Dade County, Fla., which he plans to operate as a

bar and "dime a dance" establishment. He learned that

ROMANO also plans to operate a local tour agency, called the

"Sunny Isle Tours" out of this address and will, in addition,

solicit customers for a South American Tour, and when

sufficient customers are obtained, ROMANO plans to lease

an ocean going vessel and supply the gambling equipment and

girls for the tour. This source understands this location

reportedly is to be a contact point for "bust out" crap games

and headquarters for a female escort service. In addition

the source noted ROMANO has had some conferences with FRANK

DIOGUARDI (MM, 92-405) and JOE/MILSTEIN, a snylock, at 295

Sunny. Isle ROMANO commented that they were around to collect

the rent,

and that he, ROMANO, has to account to DIOGUARDI

and MILSTEIN on expenditures made in conjunction with this

Further, this source was told that DIOGUARDI and ROMANO

contemplate opening a night club this coming winter season at

about 239 Sunny Isle Plvd.

Bureau (AM)

2 - Miami

RFF : cmw

(5)

REC-32

62-9-29-679

...

10

3. NJL 15 1968

Approved: 2 2, 196

Special Ag

NW 45760 DocId: 32291305 Page 2

Sent

_М Рег

in Charge

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

MM 92-515

MM 743-C advised he heard a call girl received

a phony check for around $1,700.00 from a young male

individual, and after successfully tracing the young man,

found the individual was the son of MORRIS LANDSBURGH (MM92-877)

MM 509-C-TE advised that he received information

that the Rod and Reel Club at Everglades City, Fla in

supposedly an old sportsman's club, which has been

existence for years, was to be taken over by JERRY ZAROWITZ

(MM 165-256),

and his associates.

He understood they

contemplate making this an operational point or headquarters

for their bookmaking and betting operation, this coming winter

season.

This source also advised that MARVIN BROWN, who

took some of the bookmaking action at the Esquire Tobacco

Shop, Miami Beach, recently gave up his connection at this

establishment and

became a partner in a firm that manufacturers

table tops at Miami Beach.

He also advised that SOL EDER and AL DEUTCH, gave up

the oocktail lounge in the Cadillac Hotel, Miami Beach (MM 165-208) •

He was told that MAX EDER (MM 92-467), a brother of SOL EDER,

purchased the Maurice Steak House, 2705 Collins Ave., Miami

Beach, for SOL EDER the past week. This restaurant has been

in operation for years and has an excellent reputation as a

'steak house.

This source also advised the previous week a dice

table was moved into the Patio Bridge Club, Miami Beach,

secretly and in sections.

This club is awell known hangout

for gamblers and bookmakers at Miami Beach:

- 2-

NW 45760 DocId: 32291305 Page 3

---

