# docid-32174528

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aet 0Fd127 444 U56 2101 Matel

DATE 11-11-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10179-10347

RECORD_SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 89A-DL-60165-1X2, 1X1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC, WMFO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 01/21/1992

PAGES: 8

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-8288

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

09/24/1997

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/12/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS:

INC INSERT, A/T

DocId: 32174528 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Eat Lude-ahe John I. Kennedy Assassination Recoras Collection, ACt at 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

FI-36 (Rev: 8-29-85)

TRANSMIT VIA:

• Teletype

• Facsimile

AIRTEL

ECRE

FBI

PRECEDENCE:

• Immediate

Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION:

TOP SECRET

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

UNCLAS EFT O

UNCLAS

Date 1/21/92

AIL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERBIN IS UNCLASSIFTED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

TO

FROM

: DIRECTOR, FBI (ATTN: VIOLENT CRIMES SECTION, CID)

:SAC, Washington Field Office (DI 89A-43) (RUC) StA

4058-

DALLAS, TEXAS,

REASON: 1.5 (B,C,O)

(00: DALLAS)

DECLASSIFY ON: X_4,5,6

RE INTO telcalls to violent crimes unit, raIto, (57k)

1/17/92 and

FBI, Dallas, 1/21/92.

Enclosed for FBIHQ, Dallas and New York are two

copies each of a

self-explanatory insert documenting

information from

a high level New York source concerning

captioned matter.

For information of FBIHQ and Dallas, New York FCI

goss

matters

for many years.

For clarification, attached information is being

provided by WMFO as WMFO SA WILLIAM M. MACKEY Is the original S

source case agent who now is a designated an alternate source

contact agent. §)SA MACKEY is responsible for disseminating any

criminal information developed by source regarding.

activities outside the New York Metropolitan area

16-50-973

Classified

Sizo

198/145k

Bureau (Enc. 2

2-Dallas (Enc. 2)Ju

2-New York (Attn: SA Dave Cavanaugh, squad I-6)

2-WMFO (Enc. 2)

WMM/ wmm

89A-D1-60165 Ha

STAT

SEARCHED

_ INCEXED

SCRIALIZED

JAN 27 1992

Approved:

Transmitted

SECRET

(Number)

(Time)

DocId: 32174528 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE:

. 11-14-2017

. o

DI 89A-43

PAGE TWO

SECRET

New York is being provided information copies for

inclusion in source file only.

The attached is provided for whatever action deemed

appropriate.

Leads are being left to the discretion of

Dallas.

Since no leads are outstanding, WMFO is placing

this matter in RUC status.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

A (7856-01-J57

Source providing the attached information is

NARNING: INFORMATION FROM NY 7856-0A

IS HIGHLY SINGULAR IN

VATURE AND DISCLOSURES COULD REVEAL SOURCE'S IDENTITY * SOURCI

IS A HIGH LEVEL

IS ASHIATION THOSE DEER CARE ALSO FEEL POTENT

WILL POSITIYELY

LEAD TO PHYSICAL DANGER TO SOURCE AND SOURCE'S FAMILY

WARNING: DISSEMINAJIQN OF THIS INFORMATION TO UNITED STATES &

DEPARTMENT OF STATE VIA CHANNELS THAT WOULD BRING INFORMATION

TO THE ATTENTION OPEN EMPLOYEE

• JESSE CLEAR MAY CREATE

SECURITY PROBLEMS FOR SOURCE.

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO ANY

OTHER AGENCY WITHOUT PRIOR BUREAU APPROVAL.

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE

PROVIDED TO THE

UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) •

2

SECRET

DocId: 32174528

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE:

14÷14-2011

89A-DL-43

SECRED

Federal Bureau

of'Investigation (FBI), Washington Metropolitan Field Office, on

1/16-17/92:

Source learned Tampa, Florida, attorney FRANK RAGANO

(phonetic) would be appearing on the ABC News show "PRIME TIME

LIVE"

on 1/16/92 claiming to have information that former

TEAMSTERS President JIMMY HOREA instructed La Cosa Nostra (LCN)

bosses to kill President JOHN F. KENNEDY in 1963. Based upon

source's past relationship with

both HOFFA and RAGANO, source:

categorized RAGANO's claims as "lies".

Source advised source's relationship with HOFFA began

in the' late 1950s while HOFFA was a Vice President of the

TEAMSTERS.

Source's relationship with HOFFA lasted until HOFFA's

disappearance.*Source described the relationship between source

and HOFFA as "close" noting that source was one of HOFFA's few

associates who could meet with or call HOFFA at any time without

an appointment.

Source stated HOFFA offered source a position as

one of HOFFA'S

trusted assistants which source respectfully

declineal (5)

In regard to RAGANO,[source recalled attending only Le

four meetings with HOFFA

contact with RAGANO for many years,

source recalled RAGANO (like

most people attempting to contact HOFFA) was required to make an

appointment to see HOFFA in the early 1960s. Source was not aware

if RAGANO'S status with HOFFA changed in later years.

Source identified attorneys close to HOFFA as EDDIE

SHAFITZ (phonetic), a partner of the late EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS

in Washington, D.C. and an attorney (name not recalled) who was a

•lose associate of the BUFFALINO ICN family. Source did not

consider RAGANO an attorney "ClOSe" to HOFFA C(U

Source advised HOFFA was very close to ICN bOSS SANTOS

TRAFFIÇANTE and other LCN members. Source said HOFFA was capable

of ordering a contract "hit".

Source advised HOFFA was always

"doing favors". for high level LCN members and, if HOFFA requested

contract "hit", the "hit" probably would have been done by the

ICN for free.

9/16/96 (7/3/97)

CLASSIFIED BY: 56685 pede

REASON: 1.5 (BCD)

OTHERWISE

EXCEPT WHERE SHORN

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIETED

AIT: INFORMATION CONTAINES

8T4-04-60165-1x1

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

10-20-9

Classified by

76 HBB)KSR

Declassify on:/ DAD# FR

156455L0/G0L

5/15/97 - 17)

JAN 27 1992

FBI - DAINAS

SECRED

DocId: 32174528

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECREN

Source identified JOSEPH CONNO (phonetic) as a current

TEAMSTERS official in New York City.

Source described CONNO as

one of HOFFA's close assistants in the 1960s who may have

knowledge of HOFFA's activities prior to the assassination of

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

Based upon source's relationships with past ICN bosses,

source commented that if RAGANO's claims about an ICN contract

against PRESIDENT KENNEDY were true, RAGANO would have been

killed by the ICN years ago. Based on RAGANO's claims that HOFFA,

through RAGANO, requested TRAFFICANTE to arrange for the murder

of PRESIDENT KENNEDY, RAGANO should have been killed shortly

after PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S assassination. This would have been

done to prevent RAGANO from identifying either HOFFA or

TRAFFICANTE as orchestrating the "hit".

ADMINISTRATIVE:

WARNING: INFORMATION FROM NY 7856-0A IS HIGHLY SINGULAR IN NATURE

AND DISCLOSURES COULD REVEAL SOURCE'S IDENTITY •ESOURCE IS A HIGH

LEVEL INFORMANT (CRITICAL TO MAJOR FCI AND CRIMINAL

INVESTIGATIONS WHOSE IDENTITY, IF REVEALED, WILL POSITIVELY LEAI

CO PHYSICAL DANGER TO SOURCE AND SOURCE'S FAMILY*A

WARNING: DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION TO CUNITED STATES S

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

TA CHANNELS THAT WOULD BRING INFORMATION TO

THE ATTENTION OF INR

PROBLEMS FOR SOURCE.

IMPLOYEE JESSE CLEARLYAY CREATE SECURITY

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION: INFORMATION

ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO ANY OTHER AGENCY

WITHOUT PRIOR BUREAU APPROVAL.

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

INFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO THE UNITED

STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) (U(4)

SECKET

DocId: 32174528

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

89A-DI-43

SECRE

x/OrE856-0 pIlowing information was telephonically provided

• Special Agent WILLIAM M. MACKEY, Federal Bureau

Investigation (FBI), Washington Metropolitan Field Office

on

1/16-17/92:

Source learned Tampa, Florida, attorney FRANK RAGANO

(phonetic) would be appearing on the ABC News show "PRIME TIME

LIVE" on 1/16/92 claiming to have information that former

TEAMSTERS President JIMMY HOFFA instructed La Cosa Nostra (LCN)

bosses to kill President JOHN F. KENNEDY in 1963. Based upon

source's past relationship with both HOFFA and RAGANO, source

categorized RAGANO's claims as "lies".

Source advised source's relationship with HOFFA began

in the late 1950s while HOFFA was a Vice President of the

TEAMSTERS.

Source's relationship with HOFFA lasted until HOFFA's

disappearance *source described the relationship between source

and HOFFA as "close" noting that source was one of HOfFA's few

associates who could meet with or call HOFFA at any time without

an appointment.

Source stated HOFFA offered source a position as

declined

one of tils trusted assistants which source respectfully

In regard to RAGANO, (source recalled attending only

three or four meetings with HOFFA and others in the early 1960s

which were also attended by RAGANO

Although source has not had

contact with RAGANO for many years,

source recalled RAGANO (like

most people attempting to contact HOFFA) was required to make an

appointment to see HOFFA in the early 1960s. Source was not aware

if RAGANO'S status with HOFFA changed in later years.

Source identified attorneys close to HOFFA as EDDIE

SHAFITZ (phonetic), a partner of the late EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS

in Washington, D.C. and an attorney (name not recalled) who was a

close associate of the BUFFALINO LCN family. Source did not

consider RAGANO an attorney "close" to HOFFA CS) (4)

Source advised HOFFA was very close to LN bOSS SANTOS

TRAFFICANTE and other ICN members. Source said HOFFA was capable

of ordering a contract "hit".

Source advised HOFFA was always

"doing favors" for high level LCN members and, if HOFFA requested

a contract "hit", the "hit" probably would have been done by the

LCN for free.

9/16196 (313187)

CLASSIFIED BY: 5168340/ide

REASON: 1.5 (BAD)

DECLASSIEY CA

EGE SLDIS

1,5,61

10-20-43

575197-18940

Classified by

5170HBO ESR

SPA

SEARCHED

SERLALIZED

_ INDEXED

JAN 2'8 1992

Declassify on®

5FR

SECRET

FBI - DALLAS

ALL INFORKATION CONTAINED

RCHBIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

DocId: 32174528

Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released

under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: {1-14-2017

SECREN

Source identified JOSEPH CONNO (phonetic) as a current

TEAMSTERS official in New York City. Source described CONNO as

one of HOFFA's close assistants in the 1960s who may have

knowledge of HOFFA's activities prior to the assassination of

PRESIDENT KENNEDY.

Based upon source's relationships with past ICN bosses,

source commented that if RAGANO's claims about an ICN contract

against PRESIDENT KENNEDY were true, RAGANO would have been

killed by the ICN years ago. Based on RAGANO's claims that HOFFA,

through RAGANO, requested TRAFFICANTE to arrange for the murder

Of PRESIDENT KENNEDY, RAGANO should have been killed shortly

after PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S assassination. This would have been

done to prevent RAGANO from identifying either HOFFA or

TRAFFICANTE as orchestrating the "hit".

ADMINISTRATIVE:

WARNING: INFORMATION FROM NY 7856-0A) IS HIGHLY SINGULAR IN NATURE

IND DISCLOSURES COULD REVEAL

SOURCES IDENTITY * SOURCE IS A HIGH

LEVEL INFORMANT (CRITICAL TO MAJOR FCI AND CRIMINAI

INVESTIGATIONS S WHOSE IDENTITY, IF REVEALED, WILL POSITIVELY LEAD

TO PHYSICAL DANGER TO SOURCE AND SOURCE'S FAMILY-

WARNING: DISSEMINATION OF THIS INFORMATION TOLUNITED STATES L

DEPARTMENT OF STATE VIA CHANNELS THAT WOULD BRING INFORMATION TO

CHANELS

THE ATTENTION OF LINR EMPLOYEE JESSE CLEAR MAY CREATE SECURITY

PROBLEMS FOR SOURCE

-(5)

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION: INFORMATION

ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO ANY OTHER AGENCY

WITHOUT PRIOR BUREAU APPROVAL. ",

WARNING: STATEMENT TO BE ADDED TO ANY DISSEMINATION:

NFORMATION ON THIS DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT BE PROVIDED TO THE UNITE

STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) COUL

SECRET

DocId: 32174528

Page 7

---

