# docid-32340903

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10221-10296

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: CR 174-2-16304

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

LEG, OT

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/22/1977

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Confidential

06/17/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

- RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC LTR

DocId: 32340903

Page. 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote)

DATE: 11-14-2017

FD-36 (Rev. 2-14-74)

FBI.

Date:

Transmit the following in -

6/22/ CONFIDENTIAL

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

Via

(Precedence)

TO :

DIRECTOR

FBI

FROM:

LEGAT,

"TAWA (174-60) (P)

ALLEGED BOMBING OF

VENEZUELAN AIRLINES OFFICE

IN PUERTO RICO

MAY 1977r

EID - CUBAN MATTERS

BOMBINGS & ATTEMPTED BOMBINGS

Enclosed are original and two copies of RCMP letter

dated 6/16/77,

along with

copies of attachment thereto,

which are self-explanatory. (e)

Please note request in paragraph 2 of letter for

information as to authenticity of alleged bombing. (E)

ENCLOSURE

3

Bureau

(Enc. 6)

(1 - Foreign Liaison) (Direct)

(1

- San Juan)

1 - Ottawa

JFB: cae

(5)

(JFK)

Sp& MAC/eSR

#211,326

7-10-94

Classified by

103 ск ас

Declassify on: DADR /14/83

CONFIDENTIAL MATERIAL ATTACHED

DE-6

REC-86

174-2-16384

1-E20

1/6/77

ALT INFORMATION CONTAINED

HERNIN

C2.21GD

OTHERWISE

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

70 AUG 41977.

CONFIDENTIAI

DocId: 32340903 Page 2

TASE SE 27 2700.J1

IMAGE INE

VECE MErPer -

---

## Page 3

' Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection AOt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

PLEASE ADDRESS

CORRESPONDENCE TO:

THE COMMISSIONER

ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

PRIÈRE D'ADRESSER LES

• LETTRES COMME SUIT:

LE COMMISSAIRE"

GENDARMERIE ROYALE DU CANADA

OTTAWA, CANADA

KIA OR2

HEADQUARTERS

DIRECTION GÉNÉRAL E

YOUR NO.

VOTRE NO

OUR NO.

NOTRENO D937-1-568

June 16, 1977

CONFIDENTIAL

Mr. Joseph A. Marion, Jr.

c/o United States Embassy

Ottawa, Ontario

Dear Mr. Marion:

Further to the Burns/Prentice conversation on

13 June 1977, attached is a transcript of the 'As it Happens'

radio programme.

This concerns the interview between Blake

Freetwood, free lance reporter from

New York, and Orlando

BOSCH Avila, in his Venezuelan cell.

On page 4, BOSCH states that his organization recently

bombed the Venezuelan Airlines' office in Puerto Rico.

It

would be appreciated if you could determine whether this

incident did actually occur.

Reports of anti-Castro terrorist attacks in the USA

and other parts of the western hemisphere are not always

available to us.

These incidents do not have any direct

impact on Canadian security but the frequency of Cuban exile

attacks does indicate the seriousness of their purpose.

Canada is known to be a potential target area, particularly

Cuban establishments and personnel, it would assist us

in evaluating the potential threat

• to Canada if we could

be advised of those anti-Castro incidents that come to the

attention of your organization.

Yours truly,

stilles

J. Miller

Assistant/Officer i/c

Security Intelligence

1 74-2-16304

ENCLOSURE

DocId: 32340903

Page 3

---

## Page 4

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

MAITLAND

AS IT HAPPENS

MAY

19, 1977

HOSTS:

Barbara FRUM

Allen MAIrLAND

Orlando BOSCH, one of the world's most dangerous terrorists

may be behind bars but he still is the spider at the centre

of the Cuban web of terror. The one time friend of fidel

CASTRO has admitted to countless murders and bombings and

says he will stop at nothing to destroy the Cuban Premier.

BOSCH is now in a Venezualan prison awaiting trial for the

bombing last October of a Cuban plane off the coast of

Barbadoes.

Even in jail he's directing terrorist activities

around the world.

Blake FLEETWOOD, a freelance journalist in New York, recently

got inside the prison for an exclusive interview

with BOSCH.

Mr.. FLEETWOOD is on the line now.

MI. FLEEIWOOD; how difficult was it to reach this man

and get an interview with him in prison?

FERGUSON

ax

(sitting in

FOr FRUM)

LEETWOOD

Well, it was almost impossible. He was underground for about

three years

and then he was in prison for about six months,

and he hadn't talied to a repoiter in all that time. I went.

down there just on a hunch that maybe I could talk to his

lawyer and some of his friends and try and find out what was

going on down there. I hoped that maybe I might be able to

get some written questions

to him.

But I found out that on

two days a week there's a visiting day and I just went and

stood in line with the rest of the visitors and I might be able

..2

174-2-16304

DocId: 32340903 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

-2-

RGUSON

i EETWOOD

RGUSON

LEETWOOD

to get in the prison, they have a syscem in Venezuala where

you just

sign yourself into the prison and you don't have.

to say who you're going to se. That's basically what I

did. I walked in and got in line with all the womenfolk,

mainly the women were waiting to go in the prison to see

their men, and I just walked in and nobody asked me who I

was going to see.. Once I got in the prison I asked a couple

of other prisoners if they knew where this Orlando BOSCH was

and they took me to him. He wasn't expecting me at all. I

walked up to him and said, hello DI. BOSCH, my name is Blake

FLEETWOOD, I'm a reporter, I would like to talk to you. He

was

flabbergasted. He said, how did you get in?

He was expecting at least a basket of fruit I suppose..

How was he being treated, (a) by the prison authorities,

and. (b) by his fellow prisoners?

He was being treated alright. It wasn't bad. He had a nice

cell." It had wallpaper on walls, he'd obviously wallpapered

and he had a television set. He had designor sheets on his

bed. I think it wasn't a question that he was getting any

favoured treatment, it was just that he's had people who save

sent all this stuff into him in prison.

He was clearly the most

famous prisoner in prison, the country, perhaps in all of

South America.

What' were your impressions

of the man?

He was a very dedicated and actually. very friendly man. I

didn't expect it at all. Very educated. Very in toush with

... 3

174-2-16304

DocId: 32340903 Page 5

---

## Page 6

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

- 3

"ERGUSON

"LEETWOOD

FERGUSON

LEETWOOD

ARGUSON

what he was

doing. Obviously a man

who considers himself

at war and willing to stop at nothing to get what he wants

which is the liberation of his country. Cuba. It's a

funny position for a man who was a pediatrician, a doctor.

Yeah that's the chilling factor, that he started out helping

to heal little children, and of course now

an international

killer of the first order. Is he open in talking about all the,

what is it, in the last two.or three years, fifty bombings

and 170 murders.

Does he talk about that freely.

He was very open and

as far as talking with me, he held back

on a few things but he admitted some of the bombings and a lot

of the killings he admitted. These are in Miami and all around

South America, Caribbean.

What kind of a deal has he made with the Venezualan government?

He'd been a

wanted man for three years before he finally landed

in Venezuala approximately six or seven months ago.

so he

got together with the top advisors to the president and they

offered him a sancturary in Venezuala in return for, this is

his story, in return for not bombing in Venezuala, they said

he couldn't bomb in Venezuala, they said he couldn't bomb in

the Dominican Republic and Panama and they wanted him to throw

in Guyana and he said, no, I want to bomb in Guyana, we like

to bomb in Guyana, we just set off a bomb there last week.

That in itself is strange. Why wouldn't they deport the man?

Say, You're not going to set a foot in Venezuala, rather than

174-2-16304

DocId: 32340903 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

'LEETWOOD

ERGUSON

LEETWOOD

ERGUSON

LEETWOOD

RGUSON

have to buy hin off like this.

well there's a large Cuban community in Venezuala and they

felt that if they just deported him he would have snuck in

the country anyway and would have set off bombs in Venezuala.

It may have been a kind of a way of buying him

Off..

So he got his santuary in Venezuala, then

what happened?

He apparently arranged for the planting of a bomb on a

commercial

airplane belonging to Cuba.

The bomb went off and

73 people on the plane were killed. Iwo of the people who

actually planted the bomb, contessed to planting the bomb and

implicated Orlando BOSCH. He was then put into jail and he

was very upset because he claimed that,

well my. deal was that

I had a

sanctuary here it I didn't set off any bombs in

Venezuala I wouldn't be put in jail.

Is he quite bitter

about it?

He's very bitter. about it. He told me, he said he was going

to go to war with Venezuala and when BOSCH says he's going

to war, he means bombs and killing people and while we were

sitting in jail he said, did you hear about the bombing of.

the Venezualan airlines office in Puerto Rico. I said no. .

He said, well we hit it yesterday.

I said, oh yes, you häve

better information in jail than I do. And he said, yes, there's

going to be a lot of bombing, a lot of kidnapping..

In your writings about this man

BOSCH, you haven't exactly

eulogized him. Are you worried yourself about any repercussions

... 5

174-2-16304

DocId: 32340903 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hobe) .

DATÉ: 11-14,2017

FLEETWOOD

FERGUSON

FLEETWOOD

FERGUSON

MAITLAND

- 5

from this

great network he apparently has outside?

I've had a

few threats.

I'm a little worried.

Another visit with Mr. BOSCH in prison and you make a deal

with him

the way vonezuala did?

I'11 stop writing if he lets me go.

Thanks very much for your time Mr. FLEETWOOD.

Blake FLEETWOOD is a freelance journalist in New York.

This

ivis SAL.

humoron

JM

11-5-771

1 74-2-16304

DocId: 32340903

Page 8

---

