# docid-32304402

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10286-10032

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 92-2918-4TH NR 150

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/24/1964

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, MISUR, INSTAL, KEN IRON AND STEEL CO.

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS : INC MEMO

N9.1

DocId: 32304402

17

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

• FD-142 (Revi, 6-2-67)'

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

SECREN

• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI (Bufile

92-2971

92-2918

FROM : SAC, PITTSBURGH

(92-230 - SUB

•₴).

(92-220 - SUB

2)

JUNE

DATE:

2/24/64

SUBJECT: RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALIATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

CLASCIFIED EY S668 SLO/GAL

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X C)(6)

(K) 0B/97

RE: Iltle GABRIEL MANNARINO, aka;

SAMUEL MANNARINO,

aka

Character of Case Ah

Field Office PITISBURGH

Symbol Number TO BE ASSIGNED

Type of Surveillance (Iechnical or Microphone)

1. Name and address of subject:

GABRIEL MANNARINO, 540 Charles Ave.,

New Kensington, Pa.; SAMUEL MANNARINO, 201 Highland Ave.,

New Kensington, Pa.

2. Location of technical operation:

Ken Iron and Steel Company,

1263 Third Ave..

New Kensington, Pa E(To be

monitored

at Pittsburgh Office Consolidated Plant).

(.)

3. Other technical surveillances on same subject:

None

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEROIN 13 UNCLASSTFLED

EXCEPA WHERE SHOWN

OTHERWISE

110-94

Classified by SPS ma

Declassify

WADR

4.

Cost and manpower involved: Leased line including loops costs $50 pl

14% state and Federal taxes or $63.84. PG 177-Si5Ja) CPQ 177-S44

PG 180-S*, PG 622-C* and PG 685-C*

presently being moniored from

8:00 a.m.

through 12:00 p.m. daily,

by one special employee, GS-y at

$0,250 per annum; one clerk, GS-7 @ $5,725 per annum; one clerk,

GS-6

@ $6,055 per annum; and one

clerk, GS-5 @ $5,845 per annum. There-

fore, the approximate proportionate salary expense per annum for

proposed

misur. would be:

GS-9, $1,375; GS-7, $955; GS-6, $1,010;

and GS-5, $975.

5. Adequacy of

security:

Belleved adequate as set out in Appendix -

"Details of Proposed Installation." 92-2918=

2/Bureau

NOT RECORDED

2-Plttsburgh

174 MAR 12 1964

HIW: 11a

Registered Mail

CECREN

ORIGINAL

DocId: 32304402 Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records CollectIon Act Of T992 (4T USe 2107 note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRED

APPENDIX

DETAILS OF PROPOSED INSTALLATION

Pursuant to Bureau authority, dated February 12,

1964, a survey was conducted to determine the feasibility of

effecting misur coverage on subject's private office at

the Ken Iron and Steel Company, 1263 Third Ave., New

Kensington, Pa:

The Ken Iron and Steel Company is located in the

twelve hundred block of Third Avenue and fronts on this

avenue, while the rear of the enclosed yard bounds on

Spruce Alley, running east-west between Second and Third

Avenues and terminating at the east end of this yard.

Residences on both Second and Third Avenues are telephonically

v serviced through a lead-sheathed aerial cable traversing the

side of Spruce Alley from west to east, which terminates

on utility pole #19319 immediately behind the yard. From

this utility pole

the cable is dropped into the company's

office's cellar where it terminates in a twenty-five

"protector-

paired" box,

five pairs of which service the office's various.

individual

telephone numbers.

The location of this office

Is approxinately 16 wire-miles fromithe Pittsburgh Office

Consolidated Plant IC)

CS PG 187-S advised that a cable-record check

discloséd severalline pairs which could be made available

for use.

One pair was

selected (Pair 847) and on testing it,

measured 2,055 ohms with a db loss of 8.7 over the approximate

16 wire-miles.

10' by 11' dimensions.

The walls are pine-panel plank while

the 10' ceiling is constructed of acoustical tile. The

The private office

is serviced with a five-key telephone instrument which inter-

connects, in addition, with

several offices and points in

the junk

yard. This keying unit obviously replaced a former

number of private-line instruments. On the north wall is

mounted a 44A block.

It is proposed that one mike be installed in the

northwest corner of subjects' private office on the west

SECRET

DocId: 32304402 Page 3

---

## Page 4

/Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

ACCKED

wall at a height of 34" and a point 22" from the northwest

corner.

Ingress to this area can be made by removing one

section of plank, two at the most.

The preamp leads will be

extended behind the plank, downward and will emerge on

the top interior west wall of the cellar and will thereafter

be secreted to the cable outlet.

It is anticipated that the installation personnel

will enter the Ken Iron and Steel Company surreptitiously.

Prior to entry, all logical principals will be placed

under surveillance and will be surveiled during the entire

operation.

Special Agent personnel who are acquainted with

the subjects and key associates will be placed in strategic

positions to provide utmost security throughout the entire

operation

to insure advance warning of any

approach by the afore-

mentioned

persons. It is realized that trespass will occur

but every precaution will be taken to prevent any possibility

of compromise.

SECRED

DocId: 32304402 Page 4

---

