# docid-32298723

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/27/201

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10224-10003

HQ

105-106995-29

Released under the John

Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Uct of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NW 45676 Date:

11-15-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO:

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/23/1964

2

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI, ACA, RES, EXILE ACTION

GROUP, SAN JUAN, PR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 04/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 45676

DocId: 32298723

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

SAY INAL FORM NO. 10

5010-108

MAY 1902 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GO

RNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-106995)

DATE: 4/23/64

FROM

SAG, MIAMI (105-4719) (P)

SUBJECT:

4-1200

AGRUPACION MONTECRISTI,

Aka Montecristi Group,

Montecristi Movement

IS - CUBA; RA - CUBA

ки с нет

00 - Miami

DECZASSIFIBD BY SPO MAC

ON ge 30-98

ALI INFORMATTON CONTAINED

CTASSIFIED

HEREIN

For the information of the San Juan Office,

captioned organization is a group which has been engaged in

anti-CASTRO activity.

CARRILLO.

It is headed by DI. FRANCISCO.

This group has been relatively inactive

during the recent past. Recent information concerning

this organization

has indicated it has practically no

money and no prospects for future financial assistance

from any source.

ps (4)

American

(on 3/27/64, MM 873-S,J characterized as a Latin

businessman with good contacts among Cuban exiles

in the Miami area and abroad, advised that the Agrupacion

Montecristi (AM) (Montecristi

Group) (Montecristi Movement)

is planning to move its principal headquarters to San Juan,

Puerto Rico. The new address of the organization was not

known at that time.

The source disclosed that FRANCISCO

CARRILLO, Executive Secretary of the AM, would move with

is family to San Juan withir

delegate for the organization.

сльс

FLA

OTHERW

2

Bureau (RM)

San Juan (RM)

1 - Miami

LLS: plm

(5)

Class

Declass

REC-35™

105-106995-29

by

on: DADR 6/18/85

= APR 2:8 1964

68

MAY &

CONFIDE

NHAL

NAT. DP

NW 45676 DooId: 32298723

Page 2

---

## Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MANAGAMMO,

MM 105-4719

The 4/10/64 issue of the "Miami News", Miami,

Florida, contained an article captioned, "Exile Action

Group Moves".

This article reads as follows:

"An exile action organization here

announced its general headquarters has

been moved to Puerto Rico in order to better

carry out the fight against Fidel Castro.

"The latest"

group to set up offices in

Puerto Rico, where Manolo Ray's JURE is located,

was the Montecristi Movement headed by Dr. Francisco

Carrillo.

'''Castro has hit an all-time popularity low

and the liberation picture looks better than it

ever has,' said Carrillo.

"He denied his group was merging with JURE

which has attracted several small organizations

seamals 30+91.

recently with Ray's promise to land in Cuba by

May 20th.'

MM 873-S is presently out of the country, and

upon his return, Miami will obtain additional details concerning

the AM's move and will furnish all pertinent information to

the San Juan Office, including a change of Office of Origin-alu)

2.

AONEDENTIAL

NH 45676

DooId:32298723 Page 3

---

