# docid-32322802

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90006-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ -

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 97-4133-78

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

11/05/1963

3

MOVIMIENTO RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO

PAULINO SIERRA MARTINEZ

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 08/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

HTH 53074

DocId: 32322802

Page 1

Date:

5/29/201

Released under the John

'• kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53074 Date:

05-25-2017

---

## Page 2

MM 97-327

CONEDENTIAT

returned from Nicaragua where he conferred, with LUIS SOMOZA

former President of Nicaragua, and CARLOS PRIOK

former President of Cuba. They conferred concerning

so called SOMOZA plan for the liberation of Cuba.

Although

SOMOZA is active and interested in Cuban exile affairs

he

did not offer anything of a concrete nature concerning

aid

in the way of money, military equipment, or military bases.

BATISTA advised that ARTIME does not have any military

training camps established in Central America.

FLORIDA

On September 12, 1963 PAULINO SIERRA,

533 S. W.

8th Street, Miami,

advised he is trying to establish a unity

movement among different Cuban exile groups:

SIERRA stated

he had recently conferred with LUIS SOMOZA in Nicaragua con

cerning the Cuban situation.

SIERRA said that he

e had ascertained

Chrough SoMOrAn and from being In Nicaragua that MANUEL

ARTIME operates no training camps in Central America.

FLORIDA

On September 18, 1963 RAFAEL

AGUIRBE RENCURRELE

Executive Committee of the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (MDC)

(LUCAS Faction) 2333 Biscayne Boulevard, Miami, advised that

organization had been visited by one of SoMOzA& representa-

tives.

The organization conferred with this representative

concerning the possibility of establishing military bases

at sometime in the future in Nicaragua.

AGUIRRE Said SOMOZA'S

representative told the MDC that ArTIMe has no military train-

ing camps in Central America.

AGUIRRE advised that through

his organization's representatives in Central America they

ascertained ARTIME's press announcements are false and he

does not have any training

On September 2, 1963, ELADIO DEI

VALLE

head of

the Ejercito Invasor Cubano, an anti-CASMo organization,

advised that through his representatives and contacts in

Central America, he has ascertained ARTIME has no matary

bases or training camps in Central America

On September 26, 1963

ALDO /VERASERAFIN, head

F1. A

öf the American Patriotic

Action Movement,

an AntI-CASTRO

organization, advised that CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS is

forning

a unity group called the Cuban Committee for Liberation.

VERA said that he had conferred with PRIO and is considering

joining with PRIO in this unity movement.

VERA

said

that

PRIO's unity group looks like it might be successful

Inas.

much as PRIO has the backing of many ofathe

Enrantant exile

NW 53074 DooId: 32322802

Page 2

---

