# docid-32270442

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

2/3/2016

Agency Information

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10140-10138

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 06-11-47

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: BLAKEY, G. ROBERT

TO:

BRECKINRIDGE, SCOTT

TITLE :

DATE: 06/20/1978

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

CIA, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE: LETTER

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS:

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

2

Redact

01/01/2003

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 1

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

ussassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53080 Date:

15-30-2017

v9.1

HH 53080

DocId: 32270442

Page 1

---

## Page 2

LOUIS STOKES, OHIO, CHAIRMAN

RICHARUSDN I'HEYER, M.C.

SAMUEL 11

• OHIO

WALTER &. FAUNThOr. D.C.

STEWART B, h.-KINNEY, CONN.

YVONNE BRATHWAITE BURKE, CALIF.

CHARLES THONE,

CHRISTOPHER J. DODD, CONN.

HAROLD S. SAWYER, MICH.

nartr0s.t0r0.1204

FLOYD J. FITHIAN, IND.

ROBERT W. EDGAR, PA,

ALC #73: 2460/

(202) 225-4624

Select Committee on Assassinations

H.5. House of Representatines

3331 HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING, ANNEX 2

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20515

June 20, 1978

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

Principal Co-ordinator/HSCA

Office of Legislative Counsel

Central Intelligence Agency

Washington, D. C.

Dear Mr. Breckinridge:

In connection with its investigation into the circum-

stances surrounding

the death of President Kennedy, the Select

Committee on Assassinations requests access to the

following

information:

1. Any and all reports and documents, including indices

and records under any pseudonyms, concerning or

Romero is believed

to be a pseudonym. Romero reportedly served in the

French military in Algeria in the 1950's and worked

with American intelligence.

He was reportedly also

an agent of the French secret military organization

O.A.S.

2.

Any and all reports or documents concerning or re-.

ferring to any French nationals or citizens involved

in plots or conspiracies to assassinate President

Kennedy or Fidel Castro.

V3.

Any and all reports or documents concerning or refer-

ing to PIERRE OWEN DIEZ DE URE.

is reportedly

a French national who lived in Cuba in the early

1960's and assisted American intelligence.

V4.

Any and all documents concerning or referring to

Served at Soviet Embassy

in Mexico City in 1959. Referred to in FBI files on

Norman Rothman.

3821

NW 53080 DooId: 32270442 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Mr. Scott Breckinridge

June 20, 1978

Page 2

r5.

Any and all documents concerning or referring to

OPERATION PROUDFOOT, including all indices.

т6.

Any and all documents concerning or referring to

OPERATION PATHFINDER, including all indices.

7.

Any and all documents concerning or referring to

JAGGERS-CHILES-STOVALL CORP. in Dallas, Texas.

Any and all documents concerning or referring to

RICARDO MORALES-NAVARETTE, aka Ricardo Navarette-

Morales.

Thank you for your continued cooperation.

Sincerely,

G. Robert Blakey

Chief Counsel and Director

GRB : jhd

74 53080

DooId: 32270442

Page 3

---

