# docid-32312688

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/10/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10324-10437

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-2121-27

Released under the John

asksination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54462 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DN

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 02/27/1964

'PAGES:

13

SUBJECTS :

FPCC

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HY 54462 DocId: 32312688

Page 1

2

---

## Page 2

1D-a53%

(Rev. 5-4 59)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONT TEENITAT

REPORTING OFFICE

DENVER

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DENVER

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

DENVER DIVISION

DATE

2/27/64

REPORT MADE BY

ELMER A. SAMSON

CHARACTER OF CASE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

1/9/64-2/26/64

TYPED BY

jIm

RA - CUBA;

IS - CUBA

EXEMFT FRCM CD°

2

DATE OF DECLASSI

LICATION INDEFINITE

REFERENCES:

Report of SA ELMER A. SAMSON dated 8/21/63

Denver letter to the Bureau dated 1/9/64.

at Denver;

- C.

ENCLOSURES:

TO THE BUREAU

CONFIDENSIAL

Two copies of the up-to-date characterization of

the Denver Chapter, FPCC, are being submitted for Bureau approval

at this time in view of the defunct nature of the Denver Chapter,

FPCC. Upon receipt of Bureau approval, this characterization

will be attached to copies being disseminated locally. Revised

copies of the characterization are attached to this report. The

first source mentioned in the characterization is DN 200-S and

the second source is DN 215-S..

LEADS :

(FR)

NEW YORK DIVISION (INFORMATION)

APPROVED

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

COPIES MADE:

9 - Bureau 897-4196 Sub 13) (RM) (Enc. 2)

1 - INS, Denver (RM)

- OSI, Denver (RM)

1

1

- G-2, Chicago (RM)

- INTC, Denver (RM)

D) - New York (97-1692)

(Info.) (RM)

w.dL

3 - Denver (100-8543)

SEARCHI

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Agency

Request Recd.

Date ANg

How

Fwd.

By

NW 54462 DooId: 32312688 Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

- INDEXED

FILED A

*MAR 1 6 1961

DA NEW Y

274

---

## Page 3

DN 100-8543

GONPENTIAL

An information copy of this report is being furnished

the New York Office in

accordance with

• Bureau Instructions in

Bulet to New York 3/30/61.

INFORMANT'S :

Identity of Source

T• 1: DN 215°S

DN 200-S

Location

134-196A-368

134-162A-536

134-162A-543

Used to identify

ALLEN TAPLIN

T - 3: NY 2440-50

ADMINISTRATIVE:

This report has been classified CONFIDENTIAL since

data reported from Tol and I-? could reasonably result in

Identification of confidential informants of continuing value

and compromise the effectiveness thereof which could adversely

affect the national defense.

HARRY KAUFMAN NIER, IR. was Interviewed 11/29/63 by

SA'S J. HALE MC MENAMIN and JOSEPH G. LEARNED.

Since the Denver Chapter, FPCC, is no longer in

existence, this matter is being placed in a closed status. It

should be noted that individuals who formerly comprised the

leadership of the Denver Chapter, FPCC, are all Security Index

subjects of the Denver Division and their activities will be

followed in their respective case files.

(Chairman HARRY

KAUFMAN NIER, JR., SM - SWP, IS • CUBA, Bufile 100-424513;

Secretary - MARY FRANCES WALTER, SM-SWP, IS-CUBA, Bufile

105-102400; Treasurer - NORMAN LEONARD HODGETI, IS-SWP, Bufile

105-59894)•

B

COVER

PAGE

HH

54462 DooId: 32312688 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DN 100-8543

"CONFIT

SENTLA. W

Since DN 215-S was on the Executive Committee of the

Denver Chapter, FPCC, and is presently Secretary of the Denver

Branch, SWP, this informant is in a position to be informed

should the Denver Chapter, FFCC, be reactivated. In such

event, the Bureau will be promptly notified.

COVER

PAGE

contessa.

54462 DooId: 32312688 Page 4

---

