# docid-32289881

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10157

HQ

92-3182-597

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 08/08/1962

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

GAL, INFLUENCE, JUDGE, MUNICIPAL COURT, INFT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v91

DocId: 32289881

217

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 fote).

~DATE? 11-14-2017

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG 8 1962

TELETYPE

DEFERRED 8-8-62

6-25 AM LJC

NO DIRECTOR, TBI: 192-3182/00..

FROM SAC, CHICAGO /92-373/

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C ADVISED

ar

THAT

Mr. Tolson

Mr.

Belmont

Mr. Mohr.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

MI.

• DeLoad

Mr. Evans.

Mr. Malone.

•Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes.

Mise Gandy.

CHICAGO

MUNICIPAL COURT JUDGE JOSEPH WOSIK WAS BACKED AND PLACED

IN HIS PRESENT JUDGESHHIP THROUGH THE EFFORTS AND FINANCIAL

BACKING OF GUS ALEX.

ACCORDING TO INFORMANT WOSIK WAS A FORMER REFEREE IN

TRAFFIC COURT AND WAS RECENTLY APPOINTED TO THE JUDGESHIP

AFTER CONTRIBUTING THE NECESSARY FUNDS TO THE DEMOCRATIC

ORGANIZATION IN. CHICAGO. INFORMANT SAID IT WAS GUS ALEX

WHO CONTRIBUTED THE FUNDS FOR JUDGE WOSIK.

INFORMANT SAID JUDGE WOSIK IS PRESENTLY SERVICING

* THE OUTFIT AS INDICATED BY HIS RECENT HANDLING OF THE

TRAFFIC CASE AGAINST OBBIE FRABOTTA; CHICAGO HOODLUM.

THE CASE AGAINST FRABOTTA WAS THROWN OUT OF COURT BY

JUDGE WOSIK BECAUSE: OF LACK OF EVIDENCE.

\ REC-39 92-3182 597

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES 16 AUG & 1952

END AND HOLD

55 AUG 1 4 1962

DocId: 32289881

Page 2

---

