# docid-32287523

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10197-10299

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-1291

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: AMBLER, JOHN A.

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/26/1968

PAGES:

46

SUBJECTS :

LST, TRA, ASSOC, TELCAL, B/F INT, SUR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/12/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NW 45966

10

DocId: 32287523

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FD-263 (Rev. 3-8-67)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE.:

TAMPA

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN SE

TAMPA

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/7/68-6/3/68

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

JUN 2 6 1968

REPORT MADE BY

SA JOHN A. *AMBLER

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

bg

DECLASSIFIED BY 516168 Suo|Kse

03 9-5-98 (JFK)

REFERENCES:

AR

NES INFORMATON COMTATIO

HEREIN IS LEGLASS!?TED LICEPT

WHERE SHOWS OTHERWISE.

WFO letter to Tampa 4/18/68

WFO letter to Tampa 4/8/68 captioned,

"LOUIS

SWED, ITAR - GAMBLING. "

Report of SA WENDELL W. HALL, JR.,

Miami,

4/24/68

Report of SA JOHN A. AMBLER,

Tampa,

4/26/68

New Orleans letter to Tampa 5/21/68

Louisville letter to Tampa 5/24/68

New York letter to. Tampa 5/27/68

Atlanta letter to Tampa 5/28/68

-P-

ADMINISTRATIVE:

10-20 do Sps ma nick

lassified d

Declassity on: OMDR (SFK

CONVIC

ÁU TO

FUG.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS CLAIMED None

FINES

SAVINGS

APPROVED

COPIES M

RECOVERIES

ACQUIT

TALS

CASE MÄS BEEN:

PENDING OVER ONE YEAR EYES CINO

•: PENDING PROSECUTION;:

OVER SIX MONTHS.

DYES NO

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-

2781-

1291

1537

2

2

17X/RNPN CHARGENT

IN CHARGE

Bureau

(98-2781)

USA, Tampa

* Houston. (92-310)

Jacksonville

(92-7)

•Miami (92-88)

(1 - USA, Miami,

Attn:

WILLIAM EARLE,

Dept.

Atty)

- New York (92-846)

Tampa (92-1)

• 15 JUN 28 1968

REC-3

07

Notations

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fwd.

Organized Crime

CC. A16, Criminal Division

10

By

NH

45966

DocId: 32287523

Page

2

1/19/68

SEC

RET

STARSICT»

---

## Page 3

TP 92-1

SECRET

Information from records General Telephone

Company of Florida was made available by Mr. GENE MASON,

Security Department, General Telephone Company of Florida,

Tampa,

Florida.

On 4/26/68 MI 623-C-TE advised that during the

week of March 25-29, 1968 he had been contacted by two

ICh members from Rockford, Ill. requesting the informant

to arrange an appointment with PETER FRANK BALISTRIERI.

individuals advised that the

boss of the Rockford, Ill. LN family, JOE ZAMMUTO, had

recently returned from Florida where had been in frequent

contact with SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

PUERTOPRO

On 4/26/68

MM 1298-PC advised that TRAFFICANTE

had departed Miami a couple of days previously indicating

would be gone for a couple of days and when returned would

be making preparations for an extended trip to South

America and that/an associate who might make the trip was

HUMBERTO PRUEBA PROJAS.

Subsequently on 5/10/68 source

advised that ROJAS was planning to leave Miami for

Ecuador on May 13 or 14, 1968 and that TRAFFICANTE was

to follow three or four

days later and that they planned

to negotiate for a gambling casing in Ecuador and that fly

TRAFFICANTE's associate,

EVARISTO" GARCIA VIDAL, wOUld

also be involved in the

operation!

Thereafter on 5/13/68

source advised that TRAFFICANTE's current plans are for

him to leave Miami, May 17, traveling to Guayaquil,

Ecuador to operate

& gambling casino.

However, on

5/14/68, source, advised that TRAFFICANTE's trip to

Ecuador had been postponed until after the Ecuadorian

general elections to be held on June 8, 1968.

On 5/27/68

source advised that as of Saturday, May 25, TRAFFICANTE

was in New York City where he had gone to appear before

an unspecified hearing and had contacted EVARISTO GARCIA

VIDAL, by telephone from New York and that TRAFFICANTE still

plans to go to Ecuador shortly after the Ecuadorian

national elections.

MM 1298-PC has advised that TRAFFICANTE's

associate ROJAS had recently been in San Juan, Puerto

Rico

for TRAFFICANTE presumably to invest TRAFFICANTE

funds in a Haitian shrimp factory. Source mentioned

B

COVER PAGE

SECRET

1H 45966

DocId: 32287523

Page 3

---

## Page 4

CUBA

TP 92-1

SECKE

that the Miami contact for TRAFFICANTE when TRAFFICANTE

absented from Miani is in usual instances, VINCENT/BRUNO, F/A

owner of Capra's Restaurant.

Source indicated that the-

only person apparently who knows where TRAFFICANTE is

on a daily basis is his attorney, FRANK RAGANO, and that

Since TRAFFICANTE's associate, EVARISTO GARCIA VIDAL,

became involved with IRS all of TRAFFICANTE's funds are

now kept by this same attorney.

Informant stated that

for &

period of several years,

TRAFFICANTE and VIDAL

were abie to obtain the winning numbers in the Cuban

National lottery in advance of the weekly drawing and

were able to make from $80,000 to $100,000 weekly and

had

been able to obtain this advance information by

contact with & high official in the Cuban Government and

were in contact with this official through the Cuban

Consulate in Canada.

Source stated that VIDAL's associate,

LAZARO MILIAN DIO, made regular trips to Canada to obtain

the number. Source stated that a logical government

official with whom this contact would have been made

would have been JORGE GARCIA, BANGO, brother of TRAFFICANTE'S

associate, RAFAEL GARCIA BANGO.

FLA

On 4/15/68

a search of Mexican Airlines flight

manifests

maintained

at Tijuana, B.C., Mexico, failed to

locate any record of TRAFFICANTE and his wife leaving

Tijuana for Mexico City on 4/11 or 12/68, however the

records are not maintained in good order

and therefore

this search would not be conclusive.

desire to include results of investigation conducted by

an auxiliary office which were not available at time of

last report.

INFORMANTS:

Identity

TP T-1 is TP 120-C

TP T-2 is TP 41-C-TE

Location of Original

Information

137-460-279, 284

137-142-408, 410, 415

C

COVER PAGE

NiH 45966

DocId: 32287523

Page 4

---

## Page 5

TP 92-1

TP T-3 is

3135 North Boulevard

Tamps, Florida (by request)

TP T-4 is TP 349-C-TE

TP T-5 IS TP 97-C

TP T-6 is TP 402-C

T8 T-T 18 (M3X 3A PlU)

TP T-8 is TP 296-C

TP T-9 is TP 363-PC

TP T-10 is MM 1231-C-TE

TP T-11 is Former TP 8-C

TP T.12 is PCI

TP T-13 is Dun &

Bradstreet, Atianta, Ga.

(by request)

TP T-14 is AT 1979-PC

TP T-15 is AT 1824-C-TE

SEET

Instant report

137-1792-30-32

137-360-253, 254

137-1705-36

92-351-20

137-1400-75-77

137-1843-22, 26

MM137-2206

137-8-356

137-1978-5

Instant report

92-1-4428

92-1-4428

D

COVER PAGE

SELYER

Hw

45966

DocId: 32287523

Page 5

OTHER 2, 4

OTHER 2, 4

---

## Page 6

TP 92-1

LEADS:

HOUSTON

SEXIET.

AT HOUSTON, TEXAS

Will interview|

TECIP

target, for details of alleged association between

and TRAFFICANTE and/or LOUIS SWED, aka Max Bordon,

MAX PRAdICANTd for any past association between SWED

NEW YORK

AT NEW YORK, NEW YORK

Will recontact MARTA BETANCOURT, 402 W. 45th St.,

Apt. 1C, to determine if recently contacted by TRAFFICANTE.

• MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1) Will interview PCI

and fully

identify TONY (LNU) residing with

PAULA NAVARETTE,

2120 N.W. Flagler Terrace, Apartment #110 to thereafter

interview TONY to determine

association with TRAFFICANTE.

2) Will interview MANNY GONZALEZ, c/o Hamilton

Gift Shop, to determine his association with TRAFFICANTE

and/or his associates.

will also determine if there is

any association between MANNY's brother, FRED, and

TRAFFICANTE®

TAMPA

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

1) Will interview JAMES CHEATHAM, 2003

25th St. whose 1959 Oldsmobile has

been observed at

TRAFFICANTE's residence.

2). Will interview W. RAMOS, 2605 Beach Drive,

along lines above.

3) Will at General Telephone Company identify

E

COVER PAGE

SELMET

OTHER 2, 4

jIN 45966 DocId: 32287523

Page 6

---

