# docid-32339770

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/8/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90151-10015

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 105-110975-11

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

WMFO

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 09/11/1962

'PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

ALINE MOSBY

SOVIET AGENT SOURCE FOR POLITICAL INFOARMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/23/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

MEMO

V9.1

DocId: 32339770 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

— OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-104

UNITED STATES GO: NMENT

Memorandum

SEENSI

TO

:DIRECTOR, FBI (105-110975)

DATE:

9/11, 62

FIED

AND

SUBJECT:

(55-8659) 12

male

UNSUB; Soviet Agent,

Source For

Political Information, Who is A

Correspondent in theiVashington,

D. C. Area

•ESP

TOO: WFO)

0) 812

NEASON

FCIM, H

2+3

DAT ASSACATION.

9 ni

for 65884

He 71069:48

ida! 36

ReWrOlet dated 7/24/62.

The following additional names were included on

the lists provided by Miss ROSE MARY WOODS, Personal Secretary

to former Vice-President RICHARD M. NIXON,

as individuals who

ATE TIZORMACCON CONTAZERD

accompanied NIXON to Siberia.

These individuals initially have

5685NG

3/13/95

been excluded from consideration in this case for the reason

'stated after the listing of the name:

THERE SHOWN

FRANTY IS UNCLASSIFIEU

Comp 165-844

1454 4 6t

182

20712

RUSSELL, EDWIN F.

Harrisburg (Pa.) Patriot-News

Excluded: Inquiry at the Washington, D.C. Office of

harrisburg Patriot-News, revealed RUSSELL is publisher

of this

newspaper and is located at harrisburg, pa.

SALISBURY, HARRISON

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SUNn

New York Times

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X

37K

Excluded. Miss WOODST jists indicate SALISBURY !!

was stationed in Moscow and did not travel to Siberia.

However, Miss VOODS' personal notes indicate SALISBURY

did travel to Siberia.

Inquiry at the Washington Bureau

of New York Times revealed SALISBURY is located in NYC.

SCHERER, RAY

National Broadcasting Company

Excluded:

Associated with broadcasting company

and not a newg, correspondent

У .

РЕС

105-11975-11

2 Bureau

2- NFO

(1-(T05-1905)

RMW : MJB

(4)

(BOLSE

KOW)

9

SEP 12 1962

9. 6301

INITIAL

-61671

DocId: 32339770 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

FOR REVIET ELING AdO

(SEE BUFTLE 6o117200)

SEt: 633 PM

DOM INTELE DIN:

DocId: 32339770

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote):

DATE: 11-14-2017

WFO 65-8569

2C90K

OLGNEA

HENRY SHAPIRO

United Press International

Excluded: Inquiry at the WDC Bureau of United

Press International indicated SHAPIRO is on leave

of absence from United Press International and

presently is located in the California area.

i docated an

GUSTAV SVENSON

Associated Press

Excluded: The name GUSTAV SVENSON is unknown to

the WDC Bureau of Associated Press

ReWFOlet of 7/24/62 noted that MAX FRANKEL of the

New York Times and PETER J. KUMPA of the Baltimore Sun, who

also were listed in the American Embassy, Moscow, directories,

currently are being considered as possible suspects in this case.

The American Embassy, Moscow, directories carried the

additional name of HOWARD NORTON, Baltimore Sun.

the WDC Bureau of the Baltimore Sun revealed that HOWARD M.

He Bal timore sun

Inquiry at

NORTON currently is assigned to the Washington Bureau. HOWARD M.

NORTON, therefore, will be considered as a possible suspect in

this case, and background invêstigationwill be conducted

concerning him.

It will be noted that the inquiries at the above-

mentioned news agencies concerning the present location of the

individuals involved were made telephonically. No pretext was

utilized and the agent was not required to identify himself.'

COMMENTS

It wiir be recalied that"

according to information

furnished by NY 3549-S#Jon 5/14/62, BORIS KOLODYAZHNY, First (S]

magazine, WDC.

of his efforts on this individual.

Therefore, a review has been

made of BOLSHAKOV's activities since his return to the U.s. on

3/22/59; and his departure for a vacation in the soviet Union

on 8/3/62, to determine which correspondents have been in

contact with him.

This review_determined that the following

comespondents initially considered as possible suspects have

been in contact with BOESHAKOV.

- 5 ÷

DocId: 32339770 Page 4

---

## Page 5

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note):

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECHET

WFO 65-8659

FRANK

HOTHMAN

New York Daily News

JAMES

X RESTON

New York Times

Lussie

EDWARD

WEINTAL

Newsweek Magazine

4.5.6

According to WF

800-S*,) on 7/10/62, BOLSHAKOV CS_

made an appointment to have lunch with WEINTAL on 7/11/62.

attempted to contact FRANK HOLEMAN who was then in Charlotte,

from Charlotte. (WF 1371-S*Jlearned BOLSHAKOV told HOLEMANCS

he was leaving (apparently for the USSR) and that he and

HOLEMAN wanted to get together before that. (5)

On 8/1/62, WF 800-S* learned that HOLEMAN made an CS~

appointment to have lunch with BOLSHAKOV on 8/2/62.

The source

learned BOLSHAKOV planned to meet HOLEMAN at HOLEMAN'S Office. (E)

A review also has been made of the activities of

BORIS G. KOLODYAZHNY since his arrival in the U.S. on 11/20/58.

This review revealed KOLODYAZHNY has had no known contact with

news correspondents.

ciscreet.

WFO currently is conducting background investigation

of those correspondents considered as possible suspects in this

The Bureau will be advised immediately of any

significant developmerts.

BOLSHAKOV is scheduled to return-to the U.S. from

his vacation in the Soviet Union in the near future. It is

anticipated that he will contact the Unsub at the earliest

possible opportunity.

WFO, therefore, will closely follow

BOLSHAKOV's activities.

SECRET

-6 -

DocId: 32339770 Page 5

---

