# docid-32198716

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10271-10057

RECORD_SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-116464-58

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

PAPICH, SAM

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/13/1970

PAGES: 7

SUBJECT:

LIAISON WITH CIA, INSTR, GRIEVANCES, ACT, CASTRO MATTERS, LHO,

POST-RP, TRA, ALLEGED $6500 PAYMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL

Secret

CLASSIFICATION:

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/03/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

INC LIST, MEMO, 256 OF 263 NAR

DocId: 32198716

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under

the John F. Kenn

DATE: 11-14-2017

iRation Records Collection bet 0fe1992 014 USC 2107,

Hotel.

The Acterusy Canarel

1

12

1

Mints

1 - Mr.

R. Hanna 11

Mr

1 MTo Ta Ja Mcliff

UNTIL STATES HOYS SALACE COSTER

SETELLICENCE ACTIVITIES (HSC)

dated July 22: 2975

nited States Senate Select Comittes on Intellicen

Astaviered (ssc)

123

A cory of cote menacenteo to belts furalebed for,

your roserds

Enelosures (0)

62-816464

1 - Tho Dogaty Asterny Conscel

Accentlons

116 464 56

Dir

Dep. AD Adm.

Dep. AD Int

Comp? Syst

Ext. Affoirs

Files 8" Con

AJD:lab hb

00)

856

89 SEP INS

Training

egal Coun

elephone Rm.

ANGLOSTE

REC-16

ST 100

was tol

рім

DETEN NA?

CRONET BATPRTAL ATTACHES

LECLOS

DECENCO

DocId: 32198716

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John Feskered AFfination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC, 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11. 11-2017

Memoranain

: The Director

DATE: 3/13/70

COM : SA Sam Papich

CIA HAS NO OR'ECTICA TO

DRCL/33

• RELEA

IBJECT, RELATIONS WITH CIA

ATION

USUS TENiNE SANITIZEA

Reference is made to my letters dated hareh

and

March 5, 1970:

In my letter of March 5, 1970, I stated

"it

is important to emphasize that the Bureau can

also produce

an extensive list of justified

grievances."

It is my under-

standing that the Director desired that this list be identified.

Enclosed herewith is a list of approximately 75 items.

This list should not be considered absolutely complate.

Preparation was predicated on my personal recollection and a

review of Bureau records.

To make this list more complete and

specifically accurate would necessitate the reviey of thousands

út ties.

The enoleged list can he supporter hy Bureau records.

What SIn

•==00rd5 2051095 da the samo itemo is unbnori.

This

also must be kept in mind in connection. with our evaluation

of the alleged CIA grievances which I previously listed.

•I realize that it is presumptuous on my part, but

If the Director feels that our Bureau work can benefit

by a

personal discussion between the Director and myself, I am

awaite y the carte or an extended per leave

ACTION:

For infornation.

Enclosure

SPSMACKSK:

4/il93

6-24-94

Classified by 9503 800/GmT (TEK)

Dou:

marssifet

#legory

Dato behese on stole

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

DooId:32198716 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: • 41-14-2017

LIST OF BUREAU GRIEVANCES

1.

ATTACKS AGAINST BUREAU

_PLACE

• 1951)

Although Agent Papich did not begin handling Liaison

with CIA until 1952, it is important to reier to highly signi-

ficant differences with CIA which culmirated in a serious

conflict in the Fall of 1951. Our Legal Attaches in PLACE

and pLACE reported that CIA representatives were attacking the

Bureau, were endeavoring to place us in an unfavorable light,

were questioning our jurisdiction, and were making disparaging

remarks

concerning the Bureau.

Some of this was summed up by

characterizing it as covert 'hostility within CIA, stenming

largely from disgruntled former employees of the FBI.

In October, 1951, General Walter Bedafl Smith, then

Director of CIA, asked to meet with the Director and other

Bureau representatives for the purpose of discussing the

existing differences.

General Smith denied that there was any

corart hostility agrinat the Burcau and maintained that there

was a genéral feeling of respect for us. He adnitted that

there had been isolated instances oi iriviiun ius

must accept its share of responsibility:

It is my recollection that the Director and other

. Bureau officials did meet with General Smith, at which time

sidelines were set torth for maintaining luture relations

between

the tho

agencies.

I was not able to jind a memorandum

of record covering this meeting.

2. PROSELYTING OF BUREAU PERSONNEL BY CIA

The Agent Clearly recalls that early in the 1950°s

He encountered difficulties with CIA because the Agency allegedly

was recruiting Bureau-employed personnel.

He vigorously pro-

tested, and subsequently, the Agency advised that it would follow

& policy of not having any contact with a Bureau employee until

the individual had been separated from the Bureau for a period

of at least thirty days.

The Agent could not locate the back-

ground of this

matter in the files reviewed by him. It is pos-

sible that the pertinent information lies in the personnel file

of some former Bureau Agent.

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMÄTI

Unauthorized Disclosure

Subject to Criminal Sanctions

DocId: 32198716 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Acf of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE:* 11-14-2017

possible hostage situation in his native country.

The Bureau

was following this potential defection and pursuant to estab-

lished procedures was keeping interested agencies apprised of

developments.

On

September 15, 1958, We received information

Indicating that another Government agency was conducting an

investigation of the subject. It was later established that

CIA was the other agency.

39.

CIA ACTIVITIES IN

PLACE

September 22, 1958, that

The Legal Attache, PLACE reported by letter dated

NAME AND

POSITION

vas a paid, nighry. regarded, and very sensitive source

of CIA (s)This information was given

to the Legal Attache by

NAME AND POETION

According to NAME

CIA did not want this information to be krown to other agencies,

particularly the FBI. The Director's notation was, "Some more

of CIA double dealing. H."

40.

ALLEGED CIA INCONPETENCE

During the period October

PATE

, Bureau

representatives attended a seminar at Orlando, Florida, which

was given by the U.S. Air Force.

Among the activities

was a

lecture given by NAME

of CIA. Subsequent to the

briefing, General

of. the Air Force confided to

Bureau representatives and expressed his displeasure with the

briefing given by

He was particularly critical of

reluctance to furnish certain information, using the

excuse that the matter mas of a "Top Secret" nature.

General

NAME stated that the position taken by NAME

was only an

excuse for incompetence on

the part of CIA.

This item is being cited in the event we desire to

use the foregoing as evidence to support a position that we were

obliged to be circumspect in dealing with CIA.

41,

CIA COVERAGE IN CUBA PRIOR TO OVERTIROW OF. BATISTA GOVERNIENT

The overthrow of the Batista Government on January 1,

1959, and the subsequent assumption of pover by Castro raised

questions concerning the efficiency and competence of U.S. intel-

ligence. Allen Dulles indicated that future developments would

une:

-14 -

DocId: 32198716 Page 5

---

## Page 6

Reteased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination, Records Colfection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

show that many more pople were involved in ti Castro organi-

zation than the U.S. Government had realized.

Information

coming to our attention suggested the possibility that both

•State and CIA had failed to assess developments in Cuba properly.

The foregoing is cited in the event that we found

reason to question the competency of CIA in Cuba JsThis coulo

be useful if ve wanted to justify the existence of a Leza.

Attache office in Havana. One could also comment that poor

coverage in Cuba had an indirect and adverse effect on our

operations in the nited states.

42. NAME

By letter datéd April 25, 1959, me voiced our

objections to CIA for giving guidance to an individual with

whom we had been maintaining contact for the purpose of developing

him as a double agent. The individual involved was NAME

a well-known expert in the field of TYPe of

research as it applied to SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTEP waS

also a contract agent of cla and nad occasion to handle sensitive

matters for

that Agency. Sun April, PATE. NAME

was preparingS

to make a trip to Moscow. CIA briefed hin on matters as they

applied to his trip.

The Agency also interviewed him concerning

his relationship with the subject in Washington, D. C., and,

furthermore, gave him guidance concerning the relationship.

He objected

to CIA giving any guidance to NAME

concerning

his contacts with the subject without first consulting with us.

43:

ALLEGED BELITTLING OF COMMUNISM BY ALLEN DULLES

In July, 1959, Allen Dulles of CIA spoke at the

National Strategy

Seminar of the National Yar College. One

of the professors handling the Seminar was critical of Dulles.

He claimed that Dulles had belittled the iportance of the

communist problem.

The above is being cited in the event we desire to

•utilize the information in justifying a position that it was

necessary to be circumspect with CIA.

14. NAME MAGAZINE ARTICLE - SEPTEMBER, DATE,

In September, DATE: NAME magazine carried an

article captioned

TITLE OF ARTICLE

which

included infornation of a derogatory nature concerning

the Director and the Bureau.

The article precipitated a crisis

∞ 15 .

DocId: 32198716 Page 6

---

