# docid-32297605

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

• 4/24/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10219-10381

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2717-1325

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PH

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/22/1964

2

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32297605

221

Page 1

---

## Page 2

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC

2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

FBI WASH D C 0724

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

OCT 2 2 1964

-- *

TELETYPE

FBI PHILA

643 PM EDST URGENT

10-22-64

WJM

DIRECTOR /92-2717/ AND NEW YORK /92-538/

Mr. Tolson

Mr.

Belmont.

Mr. Mohr

Mr. DeLoach.

Mr.

Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Evans

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy-

NEW YORK VIA WASHINGTON

FROM PHILADELPHIA 192-516/tiaedlersant

JOSEPH™

BONNANO, AKA., AR.

4 Pete

PH SIX ONE FOUR DASH C DASH TE ADVISED TEN TWENTYONE, LAST

CONVERSATION TOOK PLACE BETWEEN COSA NOSTRA MEMBER FRANK NICOLETTI

AND NON MEMBERS FRANK LO SCALZO AND RALPH SCHWARTZ, CONCERNING

DISAPPEARANCE OF JOSEPH BONANO. NICOLETTI VOICED OPINION BONANNO

ARRANGED ABDUCTION IN ORDER TO AVOID APPEARANCE BEFORE FGJ, NY.

SUBSEQUENTLY ANGELO BRUNO JOINED IN CONVERSATION AND NICOLETTI ASKED

HIM IN FRONT OF OTHERS, ABOUT BONANNO/S DISAPPEARANCE. BRUNO

COMPLETELY IGNORED NICOLETTI/S QUESTION AND CHANGED TOPIC.

TODAY BUREAU AGENTS WERE APPROACHED BY ANGELO BRUNO, PHILA. COSA

NOSTRA BOSS AND COMMISSION MEMBER, WHILE IN SOUTH PHILA. AREA. DURING

ENSUING CONVERSATION BRUNO OPENED COPY OF TODAY/S PHILA DAILY NEWS

AND POINTED TO ARTICLE CONCERNING DISAPPEARANCE OF BONANNO. BRUNO

INQUIRED AS TO WHETHER AGENTS FELT HE MIGHT HAVE HAD SOMETHING TO DO

WITH BONANNO/S DISAPPEARANCE AS THE PRESS IN PAST HAS REFERRED TO

BRUNO AS LA COSA NOSTRA CHIEFTAIN. BRUNO/S INQUIRY IGNORED. HE THEN

SAID NUTHAT HE HAS BEEN IN PHILÃO DURING

PASI SEVERA DA 325 FRT

CERTAINLY KNOWS THAT HE WAS, HENCE HE COULD NETOGIZE HAD ANYTHING TO

DO WITH THE BONANNO AFFAIR.

"RELAYED TO I

DocId: 32297605 Page 2

---

