# docid-32286534

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/28/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10195-10310

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

62-9-12-370, 371

Released under the John

7. Kennedy

Assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

i44 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NIT 45760 Date:

11-17-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE: 09/24/1962

PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

CIP, FOOTBALL PARLAY CARDS, RES, PAYOFFS, GAMBLER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS: INC 2 A/T

v9.1

I 45760

23

DocId: 32286534

Page 1

---

## Page 2

3-36 (Res. 12- 1-56

FBI

Date:

9/24/62

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr....

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Evans -

Mr. Malone...

Mr. Rosen...

Mr.

Sullivan.

Mr. Tavel..

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room...

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy...

TO :

FROM:

lo

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC,

DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:!

CRIMINAL

INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel 9/17/62, to Bureau.

Re: SAMUEL WELLS HOOVER, aka.

AR (DL 92-125)

00: HOUSTON (92-37)

On 9/19/62, SAMUEL WELLS HOOVER appeared in USDC,

Fort Worth, Texas, to represent JAMES NORMAN WELLS (DL 31-8266)

(HO 31-2659) who was being tried on a 3 count indictment

charging violations of WSTA. HOOVER did represent WELLS

who was convicted by a jury on all three counts on 9/20/62.

During the two-day trial HOOVER's constant companion

was an individual who introduced himself as JIM STEAMBAUGH (ph) .

STEAMBAUGH is described W,M, 33 to 35, 6', 230-240, large

build, black hair receding at temples, 1 inch horizontal scar

under

left eye. This individual appeared to be acting more

3 - Bureau

1

- Dallas

(92-125)

1

- Dallas

(162-109)

Dallas

(162-129)

Dallas

(168-19)

Dallas

(92-292)

Dallas

(92-61)

1

Dallas

(137-1216)

-

Dallas

1

Dallas

(92-84)

(162-37)

1

Dallas

(137-514)

1

-

Dallas.

(80-255)

1 - Dallas

(94- 55A - SUB)

RMB/11

(15))

62-7-15-371

10 -

SEP 26'1962

• 15

113

10/ Approved:

¡FL:

Sent -

- M

Per -

Special Agent in Charge

HH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 2

---

## Page 3

DL 04. 57

S0B

it was determined that CHRISTAKIS had moved into this residence

on 9/11/62.

It was also ascertained at the Post Office that the

former resident was

BENTON

TURNS,

FBI #2845377.

TURNS is a

known Dallas gambler and associate of MEADOWS and at the time

he moved out he left a forwarding address of 6537 Patrick,

Dallas.

On 9/20/62, BURROW advised that a telephone had

been installed at this address on

9/18/62 and

had Dallas non-

published number AN 2-0263.

On 9/20/62. KEN SLANE. Intelligence Section, IRS,

JEK Law

11(a)

3

ARger to hinte

0: 79198992

L: ELSANE NO FULL

Li rELEASE IN PART

O TOTAL DEMAL

62-9-12-380

"HH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 3

---

## Page 4

DL 94-55A-SUB

On 9/20 and 21, 1962, STANKEY TRIMBLE, Assistant

Manager,

Associated Press, Dallas and a confidential source

of the Dallas Office, produced the original message and

stated that copies of this message are available in

rooms of the Dallas Morning News and the Dallas Times Herald

and radio stations KRLD: WAA, KBOX, CBS and Time - Life, as

well as AP.

He stated it would be practically impossible to

ascertain from which office the message had been obtained. This

matter continues to receive investigative attention of the :

Dallas Office in an effort to identify JACKSON's source for the

above message.

Noting the information that MEADOWS' girl friend,

HELEN CARTER,

parking lot at herdriving an old model green Chevrolet, the

place of employment, Butler Brothers,

3030 Glenfield, Dallas, was checked on 9/18/62 and the

license numbers for all green Chevrolets were obtained. It

was determined thereafter that HELEN CARTER has a 1951 twO-

door Chevrolet, Texas license NF 6108.

The information developed concerning MEADOWS,

GRIMES, CHRISTAKIS and CARTER was orally furnished to IRS

Agent SLANE, Lt. JACK REVILL and Dep. BOB MORGAN on 9/20/62.

Re: SHERMAN FRANKLIN LITTLE, aka.

IGA (162-129)

JOHN ELI STONE, aka.

IGA (162-37)

On 9/17,18,20,21/62, LITTLE's trailer at 5500 South

Beckley, was checked

and on each occasion no car known to be

connected with LITTLE or any of his associates was observed at

this house trailer.

It was observed that the windows on the

trailer had been opened, giving the appearance that someone

has been in and out of the trailer recently. On 9/21/62,

WILLIAM CAROTHERS, Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., Dallas

(protect identity), advised that he had still been unable to

ascertain the identity of any phone service installed at this

house trailer to date but would remain alert for same.

9/20/62, DL-95-C advised he had just observed LITTLE at the

Adolphus Hotel garage with JOHN ELI STONE and a Dallas

gambler

known to informant only as

* "LOUIE The Hat".

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Deputy MORGAN on 9/21/62.

4

'HH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 4

---

## Page 5

DL 94-55A-SUB

Re: JAMES HENRY DOLAN, aKa.

AR (DL 92-292)

On 9/18/62, Dallas PD Detective ROY WESTPHAL,

Intelligence

Section, advised that he has been closely checking

DOLAN's residence lately and on 9/13/62 he had observed a

1953 Pontiac, Texas license NE 5967 at DOLAN's house.

Two

men and a woman got out of this car and went into the house

where they stayed for a considerable length of time.

The

car is registered to CLYDE WADE BENNETT, 7508 San Jose Street,

Dallas.

Re: GEORGE FUQUA, aka:

AR, PCI

(DL 92-61 and DL 137-1216)

on 9/18/62, R. A. BURROW, Chief special Agent, south-

western Bell Telephone Co., Dallas

(protect identity), advise

he had received information from the Telephone Company at Omaha,

Nebraska that FUQUA, accompanied by an unknown woman, was then

presently in Omaha

and had been since 9/13/62 and was suspected

of again breaking into public telephones and stealing the

money therefrom.

BURROW's information was that a man driving

a red Valiant was involved in these acts and in checking the

registration had ascertained that it was registered to BARNEY

GIBBS PAYNE.

BURROW was immediately advised that this car,

although registered to PAYNE, was being used by FUQUA. He

immediately furnished information to the Omaha Telephone Co.

On 9/21/62, DL-95-C (DL 137-514) advised FUQUA was in Dallas

as of that day. This information was furnished to BURROW on

9/21/62.

The above information was furnished to Lt. REVILL and

Dep. MORGAN on 9/21/62.

Re: UNSUB; Printing of Football

JEK Act 6 (4)

Parlay Cards, Dallas, Texas

ITWP, ITWI (DL 168-19)

On 9/21/62, new PCI

a Dallas printer,

advised he had been contacted

that date by his brother-in-law,

who in turn introduced himself over the phone to the unsub, who

was a fellow employeerwith the brother-in-law at Ling Temco

Vought, Grand Prairie.

The unsub made arrangements with the PCI

to have football parlay cards printed, requesting 1, 000 the first

week and 5,000 each week thereafter, for which he would pay

5

'HH 45760 DocId: 32286534 Page 5

---

## Page 6

DL 94-55A-SUB

$20 per thousand. The unsub volunteered that he was getting

his "line" for these cards out of Detroit and would get it on

Monday (9/24/62). Arrangements have been made with the PCI

to have the cards marked by him in such a manner that they can

be readily identified as having been printed in Dallas.

The

unsub is to pick up the finished printed cards, as per present

pending arrangements, on the night of 9/25/62.

A fisur is

presently contemplated by the Dallas Office of this transaction.

• Re: JOSEPH SEIFERT, aka.;

SEBASTIAN VERMIGLIO, aka.

AR (DL 92-384)

DL-34-C has furnished information that CLYDE and

LEROY PANNELL have been participating in a scheme with ABE

SCHIPPS, operator of Schepps Wholesale Grocery Supply, Dallas,

to purchase cigarettes at Denver, Colorado (tax free)

and there

after affix forged Texas State Tax stamps to the cigarettes.

According to DL-34-C, one "AL"' (LNU), an ex-convict

who served time at FCI, Texarkana,

Texas, in the early 40's

for bootlegging and who now lives

in Chicago, Ill. is the

originator of this scheme.

"AL" has an unknown assocate in

Minneapolis, Minn. who is the "leg man". This information

reflects that AL and the unknown associate have a forged stamp

machine and also an engraver. New forged plates are made from

time to time.

Concerning the PANNELLS, DL-34-C stated that these two

individuals take a truck to Denver, Colorado where they purchase

a lot of cigarettes.

The man from

Minneapolis then mets the

PANNELLS at Denver with the machine and stamps the cigarettes,

then the PANNELLS pay this man at that time.

The forged stamp

machine prints stamp numbers assigned to SCHEPPS. After stamping,

the cigarettes are loaded, trucked to Dallas where part load

is taken by SCHEPPS and the reminder is then taken to Houston,

Texas, to MAIR SCHEPPS, brother of ABE SCHEPPS. DL-34-C has

reported that one EDWARD LEON THOMAS, aka. E. T. THOMAS; FBI

#4656536 has made trips to Denver in

this

connection.

LEROY PANNELL has FBI #585783 and CLYDE RAYMOND PANNELL

has FBI #446429.

The above information has been disseminated to Sheriff

BILL DECKER; Dallas SO, and Capt. WILL FRITZ, Dallas PD, on

9/13/62.

6

"NH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 6

---

## Page 7

FBI

Date:

10/1/62

Transmit the following in .

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via.

AIRTEL

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALLAS (94-55A-SUB)

SUBJECT:

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 9/24/62.

RE: GENE LESLIE STOKES;

ET AL

ITWP; ITWI

JEK Act 6 (4)

(DL 168-19)

On 9/24/62, PCIL

furnished copies

of: the football parlay cards he had printed for subject

STOKES for games to be played 9/29/62.

In accordance with

instructions received from STOKES on 9/25/62, PCI delivered

1,000 cards to STOKES' pickup truck parked in Ling-Temco-Vought

parking lot, Grand Prairie, Texas.

Samples of the cards

delivered have been furnished the FBI Laboratory.

Subsequently,

Bureau Agents observed STOKES pick

up the cards

from his

truck and later observed him passing out some of the cards

to fellow employees.

Security officials at Ling-Temco-

Vought have been furnished complete details of information

developed to date and are co-operating fully.

Information developed during the past week was

orally furnished to It. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Sections

Bureau

1 - Dallas

(137-514)

1

-Dallas

(168-19)

1 - Dallas

(137-1233)

1

- Dallas

(162-129)

1 - Dallas. (94-55A-SUB)

Dallas. (162-109)3

RMB: rmb

- Dallas 0162-

(14)

62-9-12-37

Darta

ast 762-37)

-

Dallas

(91-472

-

Dallas

7 80-226%

].-

Dallas

5(94-53)

REC- 37

S OCT

3

1962

00 83066

C 6

" WiCK"

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

"HH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 7

---

## Page 8

Di 94- 55A-SUB

been moved. Efforts to locate this trailer are presently being

made.

The information developed at Arlington, lexas, was

Turnished to Lt. JACK REVILL, Intelligence Section, Dallas PD,

and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN, Dallas County SO, on 9/28/62.

RE:

HARRY REIMER UREAN

IGA

(DL 162-143)

On 9/26/62, an attempt to interview URBAN at the news

stand, 1610 Commerce

Street, Dallas, Texas, was made by a

Bureau Agent. At that time the Agent was advised by an employee

that URBAN had sold out his interest in the newsstand (which was

known to have been used in URBAN's bookmaking operations

previously, to his brother and that URBAN was at the newsstand

only for short periods of time early each morning.

This information was furnished to Lt. JACK REVILL,

Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN,

Dallas County So, on

9/27/62.

JEK Act 6 (4)

RE:

JOHN ELI STONE, aka.

IGA

(DL 162-37)

On 9/26/62, PCI

(DL 137-1233),

advised he had heard

from

some of his bookmaking associates

that subject STONE was claiming that he was no longer bookmaking

due to "Federal heat" and that he was only betting on games

this season.

He was claiming that the "Federal heat", accom-

panied by the recent heart

attack of his associate, ISADORE MAX

MILLER, had prompted STONE's decision to quit bookmaking. PCI

stated

he did not put much faith in this rumor and was of the

opinion that STONE would be operating as usual.

The above information was furnished to Lt. JACK REVILL,

Intelligence Section, Dallas PD, and Deputy Sheriff BOB MORGAN,

Dallas County SO, on

9/27/62.

RE: GIIF : DALLAS

(DL 94-47)

DALLAS POLICE DEPARTMENT

(DL 80-226)

On 9/26/62, DL 122-C advised that Vice Squad Detective

DICK CLARK was having an "affair" with Dallas prostitute, BETTY

=3=

HH 45760 DocId:32286534 Page 8

---

