# docid-32312232

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/9/2015

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10322-10005

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-3-104-34-860

Released under the John

assassination Recorde

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 53130 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

NY

,TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/17/1964

7

COINTELPRO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32312232

Page 1

---

## Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-107

MAY, 02 EDITION

GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC

RNMENT.

Memorandum

ROUTE IN

INVELOPE

TO

DIRECTOR

FBI (100-3-107-34)DATE:

8/17/64

ROM

SUBJBCT

CLASSIFIEO BY 5668510/GCL

2102L6)

VE / ON:

(5FK) 5/0/97

DECL

SAC, NEW YORK (100-129802)

COMMUNISE PARTY, USA

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

IS-C

•(00: New York)

Lter

ReNylet 7/14/64.

1. CUFRENT COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY

arxisu-veniniste

The Bureau has authorized the mailing of

Progressive Labor literature to 3 CP members in Seattle

who were somewhat upset over receipt of the letter

they received from the ACTMLCP concerning the new CP jouth

organization.

They thought the letter came from

Progressive Labor.

The NYO

intended to send the July

issue of

"progressive Labor" but as of this writing,

this issue is not yet out. If it appears the July

issue is going to be

a copy of

"challenger heluded in the August losue, then

, the weekly Progressive Labor

news letter, will be sent to the seattle subjects.

APPROPRIATT MATACIES

AND PAID?

ADVISED R

STIP/STOr cla

DATE 5/12/27

The ACTMLCP received a letter from GILBERT

STEINER,

instructor of mathematics at Reed College in

Portland, Ore., asking for more information about the

ACTMLCP .

STEINER gave his new address in Canada to which

he wanted the information sent.

A similar letter from an

SWP member in Seattle was received but neither letter was

answered.

1- 8121B

DE-30

N-5

Bureau (RM)

REC- 51/00-3-104-34-8660

New

York

FED BY 53%

0-AUG 2071964

KRB: mgs

(4)

EXEMPT FROM

1 11652

SCHEDULS, OF E?

EXEMPTION CATEGOR

TUIOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON indr

61 AUG 31

1964

Buy U.S. Savin fol

Regularly

2.12-56

BY 8108o/hc

2

DAD

13/2271

8.17.8

(502 190-7044)

n the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 53130 DooId: 32312232

Page 2

---

## Page 3

A CRO

NY 100-129802

5. INFORMANT'S PARTICIPATION IN THE

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

NY 384-S, NY 1117-S and NY 212453

are the

informants designated to participate in the Counterintelligence

Program.

None of these informants had an opportunity to

participate in the program this month.

6. Miscellaneous

Camp Webatuck

Appropriate counterintelligence suggestions will

be made when we learn the identity of the church group that

is reportedly interested in buying Camp Webatuck.

The Bureau has denied NY authority to mail an

anonymous letter to the president of the NY Bar Association

pointing out LANE's Marxist leanings and the fact he is a

sexual pervert.

MARVINY MARKMAN

NYO

*Pursuant to instructions in Bulet 4/22/64, the

sent a summary

to San Francisco of the counter-

intelligence action taken against MARVIN MARKMAN so that

San Francisco would be in a better position to make

follow-up recommendations in the MARKMAN case. MARKMAN

is living in the San Francisco area..

CP Activity in

Leonia, New Jersey

Two agents assigned to the NYO who live in Leonia,

New Jersey, have become aware of a large group of people

in Leonia who have Communist backgrounds and have been

hindering the paper functioning of the Leonia Board of

Education.

This information was furnished to the Newark

Office for possible use under the Counterintelligence Program.

-6-

SUIN

53130

DooId:32312232 Page 3

---

