# docid-32290860

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/27/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10206-10136

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-9-12-285

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, DL

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/15/1962

PAGES:

7

SUBJECTS :

CIP, TX, POLICE OFFICERS, PUBLIC OFFICIALS, GAMBLING,

CORRUPTION, ROBBERY

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290860

Page 1

20

---

## Page 2

"Released under the 'Tohn

DATE: #1-14-2017

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992

(41 USC 2107 Note).

FBI.

Transmit the following in

Date:

1/15/62

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTAL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

FROM

DIRECTOR FBI (62-9-12)

SAC, DALIAS (94-55A- SUB)

CRIMINAL INTELLICENCE PROGRAM

WEEKLY SUMMARY

DALLAS DIVISION

•Re Dallas airtel 1/8/62.

Re:

SHERMAN LITTLES

ICA (01. 162-129)

8k2.

On 1/5/62, T 95-C advised SA ROBERT M. BARRETT

that

the previous night

GEORGE FUQUA (DI 92-61). had been

seen by Ci st

the Red Men Cluh and was in conversation with

"DON FULTON And FRED COMPTON.

At the same time

the operators he tied owner of the club as postmas FIMR

Cr identified

CLUCE..

This inforiation

WaS

orally furnished to It. JACK

REVIL, Intelligence Section, Dallas PD 01 1/11/62.

On. 1/11/62 SA

BArRETy observed 5 utomobiles parked

at this club in the afternoon and a check is being made at

the present time to determine the

owners of these automobiles.

The license numbers obtained were furnished

to Lt. REVILL

on 1/11/62.

3

1 -

nous ton (Enfo)

1

= Da klas

(162-120)

Dallas

(92-61)

]i

- Dallas

(87 - 0733)

Dallas

(92-125)

- Da1185

(92-291)

1 = Dallas

•(16237)

= Dallas

(162-95)

• Dallas

(162-96)

Dallas

(92« 330)

Dal las

(94-554- SUB)

RMB/ 11

(140)

I = Dallas

(92- 329)

1 - Dallas

(92-313)

Dallas

(94-40)

801 - XB

REC- 8

62-9-12-285

' 19 JANi2& 1962:

5 Approved:

JAN

25

Sent

_M

Per

NIRA

ectal Agent in Charge

DocId: 32290860

Page 2

---

## Page 3

"Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DI 94-55A- SUB

Re:

SAMDEL WELLS HOOVER, aka.

AR (DL 92125)

1/13/62

an informant advised SA ROBERT C. LISH

that HOOVER had been in Dallas that day and was trying to

locate police churacter SuE BAGLEY as he intended to go

off ber

$17, 000 bond.

Inforrant had no further information

as to whom HOOVER wAS

in contact with while in Dallas.

Intormation was furmished to It.

REVILL On 1/13/62.

This

Re:

GARY DEAN BARRON, aka.

AR (DL 92-291)

On 1/13/62, Deputy JAMES SANDERS, DallaS SO

telephonically advised SA BARRENT that BARRON was presently

in the county jail on a drunk charge and investigation of

illegal possession of narcoties.

He had been placed in

the jail by the Highland Park PD and SANDERS was advising

the Dallas Office as a result of previous arrangements

made with the So to be advised whenever BARRON was arrested.

Lt. REVILL WAS

advised of BARRON's arrest on 1/13/62.

Re.:

DONALD EUGENE STAGGS, ET AL

"ITSP (DL 87- 9733)

During

the past week extensive investigation was

conducted by the Dallas Office and the Dallas PD in connection

with a $30,000 arned robbery of a supermarket at Wichita,

on 1/10/62,

DL 95-C advised SA BARRETT that a

Wichita bondsman named MOgle had flown to Dallas in connection.

with the arrest of 9 Dallas police characters for investi

gation

concerning the robbery.

MOGLE waS met at the Dallas

airport by ELVIS RAY and RICHARD LEE BLANKENSHIP. RICHARD

LE BWANKENSHIP is one of the persons involved in the robbery

as determined through subsequent investigation.

taken to the Travis Hotel in Dallas and on 1/11/62, CI

advised that MOGLE had been in telephonic contact

RICHARD LEE BLANKENSHIP.

On the same date Cl advised that

the daughter of one of StAGG's associates

who had

arrested, LUTHER MOWERY, was married to

"square"

ERNEST

JENKINS, 1915 Carl Rd., Irving, Texas.

Ct also advised that

this group of police characters frequently leave

their

automobiles at JENKINS' residence and then proceed to Dallas

by cab in order to make any necessary contacts with their

associates.:

A Check of this residence by SA BARRETY on

1/11/62 determined that a 1956 Pontiac, Texas license LP 6427

2

DocId: 32290860

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

DL 94-55A-SUB

Re :

GIIE, FORT WORTH,

(DL. 94-48)

TERAS

In reference to previous information submitted on

12/18/61 concerning information furnished by DI-84 C regarding

payoffs to certain police officers

around the State of Texas,

DI -84-C identified a photograph of EDWARD ARTHUR STRICKLAND

(DI 92-329) as the man whom she dated and who furnished her

the names of the officers who would allow prostitutes to work

provided the officers were paid off.

It has been determined

by the Dallas Division that there has been a house man at the

Adolphus Hotel by the name of BILl SENTELl who allowed girls

to work there as prostitutes provided they paid him.

has been

learned that SENTELL has since been fired for this.

It has

also been determined by the Dallas Division that RED MC DONALD,

also named by STRICKLAND was involved in the prostitution walle

employed on the Abilene, Texas PD and has since been fired..

Efforts are being made at this time by Avilene officers to develop

a case on MC. DONALD for running girls in the Drake Hotel, Abilene,

Information developed by SA JOSEPH M. MYERS through

sources and informants during the past week concerning new

Tarrant County Grand Jury being sworn in this week for the next

90 days has been mentioned as a "Blue Ribbon" grand jury who

will look into crime, gambling and corruption of publie

officials in Fort Worth, however, it is the concensus of

opinion of these sources that this grand jury, while it has

many reputable citizens on it, will not indict nor involve

any police or other

officials in

gambling.

Re: GARRET MILTON RAMSEY, aka.

AR (DL 92-313)

GRADY HAIRE, Deputy Sheriff, Tarrant County SO advised

SA JOSPH M. MYERS on 1/12/62 that information had been received

by him on 1/12/62 to the effect that RAMSEY (closed Dallas file)

and possibly BOBBY LOTT, a notorious Ft. Worth hoodlum had been

in Lakewood, Calif. on 1/10/62 and were driving a 1955 Plymoutb

with 1961 Texas license ER 4039 registered to a W. G. WITTE,

3004 Lomita, Et. Worth.

HAIRE stated that the car registered

to WITTE had been sold

several times and WITTE is a reputable

person. HAIRE said that RAMSEY is

reported to have lost

$2500 gambling in Las Vegas on the trip. (RAMSEY is a telephone

coin bos robber, burglar and pimp):

= 505

DocId: 32290860

Page 4

---

