# docid-32129378

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Mote).

D/26201411-14-2017

National Archives and Records Administration

Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10035-10215

RECORDS SERIES : HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-2956

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: EBI

FROM : DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, NY

TITLE

: (No Title]

DATE

: 04/06/1964

PAGES

2

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

SUBJECTS

: OSWALD, LEE, POST-RUSSIAN PERIOD, EPCO

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

RESTRICTIONS : 4

CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/17/1996

• OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results

Back to Search

National Archives and Records Administration

webmaster@nara.gov

Exit JFK

1/1

---

## Page 2

Releaseshynder the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USc 21p7 Hote).

DATE: 211-1J-2017

,0.0

AIRTEL

4-6-64

1

1

- Branigan

Hullins

find fistful

Lenihan

J. M. Sizoo

Bogge

• Anderson

To:

SAC, New York (205-38431)

From:

Director, Fax (105-82555) - 2956

REC- 31 *

LEE HARVEY OSWALD

18 - R - CUBA

EX. - 117

*EC'O-READING RO04

27 PM '64

RelYairtel 4-1-64 setting forth allegation of

Theodore Lee received from IX 3948-0.

Allegation set forth in

reairtel is similar to allegation made by lark Lane who is known

to your office in testimony before the President's Commission

alleging that a week prior to the assassination of President

Kennedy a meeting

took place at the Carousel Club in Dallas,

Cexas,

which was attendod by Mr. Bernard Welesnan, Dallas Police Officer

S. D. Tippity,

and Jael Ruby. Investigation has developed no

information

indicating that

such a meeting ever took place or that

such a

meeting was ever likely.

In view of

the nature and Commission's interest in above

allegation, additional efforte should be made to reinterview Loe

speciscally concerning statements set sorta in real?tel

protection of your informant should be bormcin mind, if cooperative

Lee Should be pinned down to specifies. If uncooperative,

me shout s

at least give him opportunity to put up or shut up in vier of his

past position and influenco as head of Fair Play for Cuba Committee

(rece) .

FILED

UNRECORDED

Incorporate pertinent intoration set forth in renirtel

as well

as results of attent to interview tee

concerning this

matter 1n

letterhead memorandum

• form suiteble for diesenination to

President's

Cornission.

1 - Dallas (100-10461)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

1 - 305-96362

Theodore Lee)

105-9146

(SPCC)

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Casper

allaha

Rosen —

Trotter

‹ Tele. Room

,. Holmesp

Gandy

19,64.

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

MAI

APR - 6 1964

COMM-FBI

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

DocId: 32129378

Page 2

---

