# docid-32328697

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90078-10006

HQ

105-120874-2

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Recordi

Collection act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54046 Date:

D8-23-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DL

HQ

DATE: 06/14/1963

PAGES: 13

SUBJECTS :

OSVALDO AURELIO PINO PINO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/09/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

..=.

19.1

HH 54046

2

DocId: 32328697

Page 1

---

## Page 2

FEDERAL

BUREAU OF INSTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DALLAS

TITLE OF CASE

CHANGED

OSVALDO AURELIO PINO-PINO,

aka

Asbaldo Aurelio Pino

DATE

CO

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

4/3-6/10/63

•6/14/63

REPORT MADE BY

WALLACE R. HEITMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

tjd

Hittie

MON MATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT. KP 10-10-97IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

SLDIKSE

- 11-98

Title changed to note the

cofrect name of subject as

reflected in his INS file at Dalas.

REFERENCES:

Houston letter to Dallas, 3/29/68. (Intero fice) 9282g

Miami letter to Houston,

3/26/63

(Interoffice)

Houston letter to Dallas, 4/16/63.

(Interoff1œ) "

Dallas letter to Bureau,

5/20/63

Bureau letter to Dallas,

6/4/63.

ALL: INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN

IS

UNCLASSIFIED *21,326

LEADS:

DATE

4/5/85

ZCC Pied Chin

MIAMI

1-24-44 SpSmAC/KSR

AT MIAMI,

FLA.

JFK)

Will recontact ARISTIDES CALDEVILLA-JUNCOS at 1537 Northeast

Miami Place, Apt.

2, and RICARDO ADELIS COBOS-RICARDO, 1537 M Miami

PLaCe, Mlamy, rla.,

for the purpose of obtaining further information

concerning

subject,

including specifically the method of subject's

departure

from Cuba

in April, 1962, and exactly why subject fled

SPECIAL AGENT

APPROVED

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

COPIES MADE:

Bureau

(105-120874) (RM)

INS,

Dallas

(A12 912 449) (RM)

1051-120874-2

MCT 10

-

Miami

(105-7075)

(RM)

Dallas

(105-1579),

CLASSIFIED BY

JUN 17.1963

EXEMPT ERA

ATTRORY_

DATE OF DES ASSISINE

ATON INDEFIES

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

AGENCY..

REQUEST RECD.

DATE FWD.

HOW FWD. -

ĐY.-

"Copy to; CIA/State RAd

ONIVOSIAAGSI

-Date.

Do not 63h210: 50p

FREQ. RECD 2/D3

OCT 1 1 1965

ANS.

BY:

that can.

1003

00. X

MAL

inca

NW 54046 DooId: 32328697

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DI 10.5-157.9

from Cuba.

It should be ascertained also what was subject's

employment in Cuba from these individuals, it possible.

AlSO,

any information indicating

why: subject became connected with

Cuban G-2 should be set out

DALLAS

AT DALLAS, TEX.

Will, upon receipt of information from Miami Division,

consider further investigation of a request of Bureau for

interview of subject in

connection with allegations' set out

herein.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Based upon information received from Illth INTC

Group, Miami, Fla.,

through

the Mami Office, concerning interview

Of RICARDO ADELIS COBOS-RICARDO at Miami, and from the

Miami Office concerning interview of ARISTIDES CALDEVILLA-JUNCOS

and as subject is a stranger in Dallas and unknown tamy of

the Cubans residing there, a request

was made of Bureau under

date of 5/20/63 that the bes interest of Bureau in this

investigation could be served through an interview of subject.

The Bureau, in letter of 6/4/63, has directed that further

information should be obtained concerning subject prior to such

an interview.

It is with this in mind the above leads have

been set out for Miami Division.

The period in this matter is extended; however,

it will be noted that investigative attention has been afforded

this matter at Dallas and in Miami, and the Bureau was advised

concerning investigation at Dallas in letter of 5/20/63.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

Located instant file

- B* -

COVER PAGE

HN 54046.

DocId: 32328697 Page 3

---

