# docid-32289106

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recorus Collection Aot of 1992 (91 U5c 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD_SERIES:

FBI

124-10200-10382

HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-165503-23

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

TO:

TITLE:

SAC. MM

DIRECTOR. FBI

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

DATE: 05/19/1967

PAGES: 39

SUBJECT:

FS, ASSOC, CONSPR, BOMB, CUBAN SHIP, MX PORT, INTV, THOMPSON,

RONALD, FILM

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMÉNT

Secret

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

03/16/1998

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO, LHM

DocId: 32289106 Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of

DATE: 11-14-2017

92(14 USC

qU Hote)

NT .

Walter Yeagley

June 2, 1967

Assistant Attorney General

Director,

FBI

SECRET:

Mr.

Mr.

105-165503-23

FRANK ANGELO FIORINI, and others

REPORTED PLANS TO BLOW UP CUBAN SHIP

IN MEXICAN PORT, POSSIBLY VERACRUZ

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Wannall

Nasca

METT AGENCI

AFTE

AND FIE

ADUTTA

SLIP (*1

ALL TWYORMATTOW CORALNZY. MATYERS - CUBA

DECLASSIFIED BY

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

Reference is made to our previous conmunications

in the captioned matter, particularly to your communication

dated May 4, 1967, which requested certain additional infor-

•CONTAINEI

SIFIED

mation and to our comnunication dated May 19, 1967, which

transnitted a number of photographs depicting the

recovery

of buried explosives by lexican authorities oLS

Attached for your information is a memorandum

May 19, 1967, at Miami, Florida.

dated

ATT INFORIA

HERE IDI

EXCL

For your additional information, Ronald Edward

Thompson, who is mentioned in the attachment, was paid the

sun of $150 on April 21, 1967, when, in the

course of inter-

view, it was determined

that his information corroborated

original report concerning the alleged plans of several

unknown individuals to blow up a Cuban ship

in & Mexican port.

It is requested that this Bureau be expeditiously

advised as to whether the facts in this matter constitute a

violation of the neutrality statutes or any other statutes

within the jurisdiction of this Bureau.

Mo

Callah:

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivan

'Tavel .

T'rotter

Tele. Room

/ Holmes -

Gandy

105-165503

Enclosure:

CLASSINED AND

EXTENDER BYS

-REASON FO

FOIM, I1,

DATE OF

REVU

DECLASSIFICATION

1

Miami

(105-12890)

- Mexico City

1

- Foreign Liaison

Unit

111i

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

13 cleane.

SUN 13 1862

MALL ROOM

JUN2

1967

COMM - FBI

TELETYPE UNIT

SECRET

Ce

Classinted

Declassify on: Uns eM

SECRET

DocId: 32289106

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released wer the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kent

Assassination Records Collection A0

1992

T71 5C 2101 Hotel.

Conf

dential

MM 105-12890

THOMPSON paid $39.75 of his bill in cash, the

remaining $150.00 being charged to his Texaco Credit Card,

which amount of $150.00 was the maximum amount permitted

to be charged on the

card.

On May 2, 1967, Mr. GEHL GARRETT, officer at the

Commercial Bank of Miami,

9301 NW 7th Avenue, Miami,

confidentially advised that FRANK and JANET STURGIS

have had

a special checking account #4-04-649-8 since May 28, 1962,

at which time their address was 2515 NW 122nd Street. The

record indicated STURGIS was employed by the Hampton Roads

Salvage Company. Checks against the account which were to

be mailed out with the next monthly statement on May 15, 1967,

were reviewed and no check was located which appeared petinent

to this case. The checking account balance as of May 2, 19674

was $133.05. STURGIS had no savings account at the bank.

The confidential source who furnished the information

on which investigation was predicated, as cited on Page!

of the LHM, is PCI EARL HAUK, Miami, who stated he woul

testify to the information furnished.

The confidential source abroad referred to oly

Page 34 of the LHM is Legat, Mexico, which advised Miami

that Mexican authorities who had found the explosives in this

case heard telephone call from Legat to Miami relative to

bombing of the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, May 3, 1967-B04g

The roll of 8 millimeter colored movie film received

by Miami from the Bureau per Bureau airtel dated May 9, 1967,

was reviewed at Miami and found to contain pictures of subjects

FIORINI, ROCHE and THOMPSON evidently taken in Mexico and other

scenes in Mexico, none of which appear to be of evidentiary.

nature.

Accordingly,

the matter of this film obtained by the

Buffalo Office, which had placed a stop on such film submitted

by subject FIORINI, aka., Sturgis, is not set out in the LHM-

in order to assure

protection to the company contacted by

the Buffalo Office.

Bureau is requested to furnish LHM to the Department

and thereafter advise Miami of any further investigation

desired or prosecutive action contemplated.

-3-

Confi

antial

802-10385

DocId: 32289106

Page 3

---

