# docid-32332701

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/12/201

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90103-10102

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-4291-17

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

assassination Records

Collection det of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Cased:WH 45836 Date:

11-16-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SF

HQ

DATE : 07/27/1962

'PAGES:

31

SUBJECTS :

SEBASTIAN JOHN LAROCCA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/21/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS:

v9.1

; HH 45836

DocId: 32332701

Page 1

---

## Page 2

SF 92-180

IJP: Ckm

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

Information reported herein from the records

New York,

that

company, 140 West Street, New York City.

A review of the indices of the New York Office

regarding ANTHONY PALUMBO, 225-27th Street, Brooklyn,

New York, failed to reflect any information

idéntifiable

with him or his telephone number HY 9-3972.

The Los Angeles Office has advised that a

review of information developed in the investigation

entitled, "ALFONSO ROCCO PIZZICHINO, aka. AL PITTS, AR, "

ralled to reveal any connection between him ana the Al

PITTS mentioned by SF 2557-C* on March 16, 1962.

Information furnished by SF 2550-PC, on

February 1, 1962, concerning a possible meeting between

ANGELO MARINO and

an international representative of

the Teamsters Union in Los Angeles could not be verified

by the Los Angeles Office due to the vague nature of the

information available to the informant.

Information from the records of the Bank of

America, Second and San Carlos Branch,

, San Jose, California,.

was received by SA GEORGE: HARILEY on May 24 and June 20,

1962, from Mr. BYRON C. PROUTY, Manager of that bank.

Agents who observed ANGELO MARINO on June 20,

1962, at the Hyatt House Motel, San Jose, were SAS IRVING

J. PROUT, ALFRED P. CLARK, ROBERT U. MANN, and BRYAN C.

WHEELER.

The physical surveillance on July 7, 1962, at

St. GREGORY's Church, San Mateo, California,

and at

the

home of JAMES JOSEPH LANZA, San Mateo, was conducted by

SA HERBERT K. MUDD, JR.

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 45836 DooId:32332701 Page 2

---

## Page 3

SF 92-180

IJP : ckm

Seleased in part

SUIRS1310

The information attributed to a representative

of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) at Los Angeles,

California, furnished to SA RICHARD K. SCHWAB, reflected

herein, was received on 6/26/62, from PETER GEISSLER,

Special Agent, IRS, Los Angeles, who desired his identity

be concealed.

INFORMANTS

SF T-1 is SF 2354-C, who furnished

information to SA CHARLES J. PRELSNIK

on the dates indicated.

SF T-11 is SF 2557-0*

SF I-12 1s SF 2550-PC, who furnished

information to SA HAROLD V. CATES on

the dates indicated.

SF T-16 1s PX 686-C*.

SE T-17 1S SF 2547-C*.

SF T-18 is SF 2575-C*.

LEADS:

LOS ANGELES OFFICE

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

(1) Will, through credit and criminal and

Dun and Bradstreet records or other logical sources or

investigation, identify and obtain background concerning

-C -

COVER PAGE

i HH 45836

DocId: 32332701 Page 3

---

## Page 4

SF 92-180

IJP : ckm

Will maintain contact with SF 2354-0 for

information regarding the activities of the subject

and will attempt to determine the identity of the person

in contact with Subject on 7/3/62, at the California

Cheese Company.

It is noted that this unidentified individual

criticized subject for his indiscreet love affair and

apparently was attempting to collect a debt for either

himself or some other individual, mentioning the name

PELLEGRINI.

1

-

E*

COVER PAGE

/ NH 45836

DocId: 32332701 Page 4

---

## Page 5

SF 92-180

IJP : ckm

It is noted that ANTOINETTE M. D'ONOFRIO iS

the sister of the subject, previously reported as D'ALINO

(PH. ).

AT LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

The current Los Angeles talephone directories

list the subscribers to telephone number HO 9-2266 as the

Movie lown Motel, 5920 Hollywood Bouleyara, Los Angeles,

and telephone nümber HI 6-2241 as S. J.

Victoria Drive. Arcadla, California.

these numbers were called from Subject's home telephone

on November 17, 1961.

on June 26, 1962, a representative of the

Internal Revenue Service, Los Angeles, advised SA RICHARD

K.

SCHWAB that

JFK Law 11 (a)

Lieutenant PHILLIPS, Los Angeles Police Department,

has advised that ANTHONY R. PINELLI, SR., was strongly

suspected by Los Angeles authorities and

authorities of

Gary, Indiana, of being involved in the traffic of

narcotics and as a leading figure in this operation.

On May 21, 1962,

, SF I-l advised that a poker &

game was held on May 19, 1962, at the residence of

DOMINICK/ ANZALONE, 2903 Cambridge Drive, San Jose,

california Those present included, DOMINICK ANZALONE,

"MANNIE MIGLIA, JOCERRITO, ANGELO MARINO, TONY MAGGIO, CALI

STEVE/ZOCCOLI, and FRANK SORCE.

SF T-l advised that he had learned that ANGELO

MARINO was departing for Phoenix, Arizona, on May 20, 1962,

and was of the opinion that MARINO was going to take his

girlfriend MARIA with him.

-6.

HH 45836 DooId:32332701 Page 5

---

