# docid-32179319

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

•AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10230-10029

RECORD_SERIES:

DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

89-43-4866

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: "BN

TO: HO

TITLE:

DATE: 08/12/1964

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: SEE FBI 62-109060-3621

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

12/23/1998

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

02/14/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

NW 46102 DocId: 32179319

Page 1

---

## Page 2

8/12/64

AIRTEE

SECRET

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-109060)

LEGAT, BONN

(62-36)

(P)

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD RENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS,

TEXAS

MISCELLANDOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

Maesified

Declassify ed b8

JFK

(SER)

ReBonnlet 6/9/64:

Coples of the material submitted by

or, under date da a che/cougaitution),

- State

ALL INFORMARION CONTAINED

HEREIN IC UN SASSTYIED EXCEPT

of Niedersachsen,

not Marci

stated by

in his letter to the Attorney General), were

obtained

from the Bundesamt quer Versassungsschutz - (B2V -

WHERE SHOWN/OTHERWISE.

German Federal Agency for the Protection of the constitution).

That material contains a rather lengthy exposition of his

background.

In that he claims to Have spent some time in

East Germany where he obtained intormation regarding supposed

clandestine operations boing planned by East Gernan agencies

against Western

nations.

He included no specific details but

indicated that if action had been taken in the West to offset

such plans the

assassination of President KENNEDY might have

been avoided.

Federa

The West German

Police have furnished a

signed statement faken Ironl

Stade in which l

generally reiterates his former

statement but specifically

states

that he has no details regarding /the assassination of President

ENNEDY either regarding plans for

regarding the assassination itself.

(Sph an assassination of

850043-4866

The above is being submitted immediately

so that

the

Bureau would be aware of the non-specific nature of

information and the fact that it contains no facts pertinent

establishing the circumstances

surrounding the assassination.

Appropriate inserts will be

pared from the Germen material

at hand as soon as possible,

SERIALIZED 60

..FILED.,

5 - Bureau

AUG 1 8 1964

I-Liaison

FBI -- DALLAS

2-Dallas:

1-Bonn

GAV: eds

to

88-43

NW 46102

DocId: 32179319 Page 2

OTHER 4

---

## Page 3

AIRTEL

SEGRET

8/12/64

ADD INFORMAT ON CONTAINED

NCUASSIFIED EXCEP

HEREIN TA

WHIRE SHOWN OTHERWISE. uh

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DIRECTOR, TBI

(62-109060)

LEGAT, BONN

(62-36> (P)

ASSASSINATION

OF PRESIDENT

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

NOVEMBER 22, 1963, DALLAS, TEXAS

MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNENG

'DECIASSIFIED 5Y 5U68-SLD/ MAL

ReBonnlet 6/9/64.

ON

11/3/18

(FES

Copies of the material submitted by

to the Landesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz - (LfV -

State uttice

stated by

Jin his letter to the Attorney General), were

obtained from the Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz - (BIV -

West German Federal Agency for the Protection of the Constitution).

That material contains a rather lengthy exposition of his

background.

In that he claims to have spent some time in

Fast Germany where he obtained information regarding supposed

clandestine operations being planned by last German agencies

against Western nations.

He included no specific details but

indicated that if action had been taken in the West to offset

such plans the

assassination of President KENNedY might have

been avoided. U

ne west cerman redera

signed statement taken from

generally reiterates his former statement but specifically states

that he has no details regarding the assassination of President

KENNEDY either regarding plans for

ch an assassination or

regarding the assassination itself

89-43-4866

The above is being submitted immediately so that the

Bureau would be aware of the non-specific nature of

information and the fact that it contains no facts pertinent

establishing the circumstances surrounding the assassination.

Appropriate inserts will be

prepared from the

German, matasial

at hand as soon as possible. A wit

SERIALIZED........ FILED...

5 - Bureau

AUG 1 & 1964

1-Liaison

FBI - DALLAS

I-Bonn

2 DA7:99: 89-43

GAV ieds

NW 46102

DocId: 32179319 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

