# docid-32327856

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/21/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90066-10097

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3960-91

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/08/1965

17

SALVATORE GRANELLO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 45799

12

DocId: 32327856

Page 1

---

## Page 2

NY 92-1108

ADMINISTRATIVE:

On 2/11/65, NY 3936-C advised that the subject

is still endeavoring to obtain leniency after entering a

guilty plea for Attempted Extortion in Nassau County NY.

The informant learned from EDDIE BUFF that GRANELLO has

hired an attorney, MOSES WEINSTEIN, who is alleged to have

connections with

the Queens County

and Nassau County District

Attorneys Offices.

The informant was.told that WEINSTEIN

is attempting to contact JOHN ENGLISH, Republician Leader

in Nassau County, in an attempt to get GRANELLO a light or

suspended sentence.

In view of the close proximity of the informanto

to the aforementioned situation, this data has not been

included in the details of this

report.

On 3/15/65, the Identification Division, Federal

Bureau of Investigation (FBI) advised that a copy of the

subject's arrest record. had been furnished to the Customs Agent

in Charge, 201 Varick St., NYC, per lis request on 3/4/65.

On 3/19/65, Mr. JAMES A. FLYNN, Assistant Customs

Agent In Charge, US Customs, 201 Varick St., NYC, advised

that his agency

recently requested an identification record

for the subject because

a customs agent recently observed

a 1964 tan Cadillac, Texas Registration VP5381, parked in

the vicinity of the

subjects residence, 215 Mott St., NYC.

According to Mr. FLYNN,

this vehicle is registered to

EVELYN ROMANO, 7300 Stella Link Rd., Houston,

Texas. However,

a check by US

Customs has reflected that ROMANO is unknown at

this address.

- B

-- COVER PAGE -

58088-19901

NW 45799

DocId: 32327856

Page 2

---

## Page 3

NY 92-1108

Mr. FLYNN advised that his agency has never

conducted any investigation relative to the subject.

However, his name has come up during investigations

of

individuals in the Narcotics rackets, who are associates

of GRANELLO.

Mr. FLYNN stated that his agency is endeavoring

to conduct

further investigation relative to ROMANO and

in the event it is determined that she is associated with

GRANELLO, he, FLYNN, will notify the New York Division.

The files of the New York Division reflect that

LARRY GOTTLIEB is an associate. of valous hoodlums in the

NYC area including MICKEY D'ALESSIO.

In 1961, GOTTLIEB

allegedly fingered a burglary of a floral. shop owned by, his

father for the purpose. of obtaining money from the insurance

company•

IN FORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T-1

Acting Chief of Police,

GLENN DETRO, Greenwood

Lake, NY

(due

to position)

Contacting Agent

SAS LOUIS A. CRESCIOLI

EUGENE J. HINDES

NY T-2

Mr. JAMES GUNN,

Acting Postmaster,

Greenwood Lake, NY

(due to position)

NY T-3

NY 4645-PC

NY I

PCI

NY T-5

NY 4461-C

SAS LOUIS A. CRESCIOLI

EUGENE J. HINDES

SA GERALD P. REIDY

SA PAUL J. STAPLETON

SA PAUL G. DURKIN

NY T-6

NY 4195-PC

SA FREDERICK W. KUBLMAN

OTHER 4

- C -

- COVER PAGE -

SOBEES+AND

NW 45799 DocId: 32327856 Page 3

---

## Page 4

NY 92-1108

INFORMANTS CONTINUED

Identity of Source

NY T-7

NY 4317-C

NY T-8

NY 4336-C-TE

NY. T-9

PCI

Contacting Agent

SA EUGENE J. HINDES

SA JOHN P. HERLIHY .

SA PATRICK J. MOYNIHAN

OTHER 4

LEADS :

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA. An information copy of this

report is being furnished to the Miami Division in view of

the many associates the subject has in that area and his

past activities in that locale.

NEWARK

AT NEWARK, NEW JERSEY

An information copy of this

report is being furnished to the Newark Division in view of

the current investigation being conducted in that area.

NEW YORK

subjects act VEY YORK, NEW YORK WiLL continue to follow the

2. Will follow closely the current prosecution

against the subject.

- D*

• - COVER PAGE -

SPARE DONI

NW 45799 DocId: 32327856

Page 4

---

