# docid-32292681

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENMFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10209-10457

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 45-10815-2ND NR 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC. TP

TO: DIRECTOR. FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 06/04/1968

PAGES: 17

SUBJECT:

OBA, CUBAN POWER, SUSP, EXPLOSION, FREIGHTER, MIKAGESAN MARU

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

12/17/1997

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (4)

REFERRED TO USCG, INC 6 TTY

DocId: 32292681

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USC 2107 Note).

11-11-2017

10

FBI WASH DO

CONFBENTIAL

FRI TAMPA

ON_

938

URGENT 6/4/68 ALS

DIRECIOR, HOUSTON, MIAMI, AND MOBILE

FROM TAMPA

400 F

4022 :

pur?

LASSITIED

OTHERWIS

SHOWN

UNsUB: EXPLOSION ABOARD JAPANESE FREIGHTER, "ASAKA MARU", TAMPA,

FLORIDA, MAY THIRTY, SIXIYEIGHT, CHS • FIRING OR TAMPERING WITH

VESSELO 00•IPo (45-143)

Classified

Declassify

UNSUB® EXPLOSION ABOARD JAPANESE FREIGHTER,

"MIXAGESAN

NADR

83

MARU

GALVESTON, TEXAS, JUNE ONE, NINETEEN SIXIYEYCHI, CHS - FIRING

OR IAMPERING WITH VESSEL, 00% MO -

(45-144)0

7

La

10814

ORIGINAL FILED IN

RE TAMPA TEL JUNE THREE AND HOTELS JUNE THREE AND FOUR LASI

MILITARY EXPLOSIVE EXPERT, MAC DILL AFB, TAMPA, ADVISES

DETONATING DEVICE AN - M ONE TWO THREE IS A CHEMICAL LONG DELAY

DETONATOR AND CAN BE DETONATED WITHIN TIME PERIOD OF

VONE TO ONE

G

JUN

HUNDRED FORTY- FOUR HOURS•

TP FIVE IWO •S ACQUAINTED WITH ALL ACTIVITIES OF MIRE IN

AREA ADVISES ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, AKA "ERNESTO", ALLEGED

HEAD OF "CUBAN POWER" HAS NOT BEEN IN TAMPA AREA FOR OVER ONE YEAR,

HOWEVER, MARCELINO GARCIA AND EDUARDO MAURI, REPRESENTATIVES OF

MIRR IN

PAGE

ONE

70 JUL1

1968/

CONFIDE

45-10815

NOT RECORDED*

130 JUN 28 1968

2nd NA 2

DocId: 32292681

Page 2

---

## Page 3

DReleased under the John F

DATE: °11-14-2017

Kennedy AssasSIDERALiBUREADFUNVEST CArection Act of 1992

U. S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION,

JUNS

1968

444 USC 2107 Hote).

Max.

Toleon.

Mr. DeLoach

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Bishop

Mr. Casper.

TELETYPE

MT: Con

Mr.

MI

MT

MS.

Sullivan

FBI TAMPA

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room

PM EST URGENT 603-68 ONL

Miss Holmes.

Mias Gandy

TO DIRECTOR, HOUSTON AND MIAMI

FROM TAMPA (45 = PEW)

UNSUB; EXPLOSION ABOARD JAPANESE FREIGHTER,

Shatter

7

MIRAGESAN MARU, GALVESTON, TEXAS, JUNE ONE

10814

NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT, CHS • FIRING OR TAMPERING

WITH VESSEL, 00F HOUSTON.

USCG, TAMPA, ADVISED TODAY, RECEIVED CAT

ALL INFORMARION CONTAINE

FROM LIO PJG) MILLER, USCG, CAPTAIN OF PORT

FERON IS UNCLASSIRIED

401k6-9+3.

GALVESTOND TEXAS, WHO INFORMED CAPTIONED VESS

HAD AN EXPLOSION IN RUDDER POST AREA ABOUT THREE

Вчерак

FIFTY PM, SATURDAY, JUNE ONE LAST

FOR INFORMATION HOUSTON, TAMPA INVESTIGATIQNG

ECOR

CASH ENTITLED, "UNSUB; EXPLOSION ABOARD JAPANESE

FREIGHTER, "ASAKA MARU TAMPA, FLAO, MAY THIRTY,

NINETEEN SIXTYEIGHT®, SAME CHARACTER*, WHEREIN

SIMILAR EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN RUDDER POST AREA,

CAUSING ESTIMATED DAMAGE OF ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND

int liter 545-10815-131

JUN 26 1968

HAS/

JUN 2g

2..?

He tel SACs, TP, No, 8

PAC: 10ED

10-3-68

DocId: 32292681

Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

UsC

2107 Hote).

БД TE Sy 11-112917

Toison.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U, S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATION SECTION

JUN&

1968

Mr. - Deloach

Mr.

MT. Bishop-

Mr. Casper.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt.

TELEMPE

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

FBI WASH

DC

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Irise

Eloimes..

Mise Mandy-

PB I- HOUSTON

A 5650 PM URGENT 6-5-68 NAIL INFORMATION COMPANED

TO DIRECTOR, TAMPA, MIAMI

MOBILE IS UNCLASSIFIED

FROM HOUSTON (45- NEW)

DATE 610 + 3BY ep sceega

UNSUB; EXPLOSION ABOARD JAPANESE "VESSEL

MIKAG ESAN MAR U

GALVESTON, TEXAS, JUNE ONE LAST: CRIME ON THE HIGH SEAS •

FIRING OR TAMPERING WITH VESSEL, O0: HO.

7

58

ON THIS DATE, LIO WO GO MILLER, UO SO COAST GUARD,

U. So COAST GUARD BASE, GALVESTON, ADVISED THE JAPANESE

VESSEL "MIKAGESAN MARU ARRIVED AT PIER FORTY, GALVESION,

TEXAS, AT NINE PM, MAY THREE ONE, LASTO THE LAST PORT

AT WHICH THIS VESSEL WAS DOCKED PRIOR TO ARRIVING GALVESTON

WAS MIAMI, FLORIDA, HAVING ARRIVED AT MIAMI, MAY TWO EIGHT,

LAST, AND DEPARTED FROM MIAMI TO GALVESTON, SIX AM, MAY TWO

NINE, LAST.

MILLER STATED WHILE VESSEL WÄS DOCKED AT PIER FORTY,

GALVESTON, AN EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN THE AFT PARI OF THE SHIP

END PAGE ONE

EX-116

REE 60

45-10815

JUN 26 1968

6

9 JUL 2- 1968

cd-

DocId: 32292681 Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the Tom T. Kennedy Assassination Records collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

PAGE TWO

AT THREE FIFTEEN PM, JUNE ONE, LASI. AT THE TIME OF THE

EXPLOSION, THE SHIP WAS IN THE PROCESS OF LOADING COTTON

AND THE COTTON WAS BEING PLACED IN HOLES ONE TWO AND THREE

WHICH ARE LOCATED IN THE FORWARD SECTION OF THE VESSEL.

HE STATED AT THREE FIFTEEN PM, JUNE ONE, LASI, A LOUD

NOISE OCCURRED IN THE AFT PART OF THE VESSEL AND THE CHIEF MATE

OF THE VESSEL CLAIMED HE THEN OBSERVED WHITE AND GRAYISH

SMOKE AT THE REAR PART OF THE VESSEL AFTER THE EXPLOSION.

MILLER STATED HE OBSERVED THE DAMAGE TO THE VESSEL FROM

THE EXPLOSION AND NOTED ONE OF THE STEEL PLATES OF THE HULL OF

THE VESSEL LOCATED AT THE STOCK AND SHAFT OF THE RUDDER OF THE

VESSEL HAD BEEN BLOWN INWARD AND THAT A SMALL PORTION OF THE

PLATE HAD BEEN BLOWN DOWNWARD. HE STATED THE DAMAGED PLATE

IS ABOUT THREE AND A HALF FEET - FOUR FEET IN LENGTH AND ABOUT

ONE AND A HALF FEET WIDE. NO ONE WAS INJURED AND NO FIRE

OCCURRED FROM THE EXPLOSION AND THERE WAS NO DAMAGE TO THE

END PAGE TWO

DocId: 32292681 Page 5

---

## Page 6

éleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (41 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-11-2017

PAGE THREE

PIER OR OTHER PARTS OF THE VESSEL. HE STATED THERE WAS NO

• CHEMICAL OR EXPLOSIVE TYPE OF CARGO ABOARD THE VESSEL AT THE

TIME OF THE EXPLOSION. HE ADVISED THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED IN THE

RUDDER AREA ABOUT SIX TO EIGHT FEET ABOVE THE WATER OF THE

CHANNEL® HE ADVISED THE ONLY CARGO NEAR THE DAMAGED PLATE

WAS WATER TANKS CONTAINING WATER USED BY THE SHIP PERSONNEL.

HE ADVISED THE ONLY DAMAGE RESULTING FROM THE EXPLOSION

WAS TO. THE STEERING MECHANISM, BUT THE VESSEL WITH ASSISTANCE

OF TUGS, LEFT GALVESTON JUNE TWO, LAST AND WENI TO HOUSTON,

TEXAS, WHERE THE VESSEL IS NOW LOCATED AT PIER TWO ONE.

MILLER STATED HE OBTAINED A SMALL PORTION OF THE DAMAGED

PLATE AND ANOTHER SMALL PIECE OF METAL WHICH DOES NOT APPEAR

TO BE PART OF THE VESSEL'S HULL. HE ADVISED HE HAD NO IDEA

WHAT CAUSED THE EXPLOSION®

HE STATED HE HAD LEARNED THROUGH CONTACT WITH THE U. S.

COAST GUARD IN FLORIDA THAT ANOTHER JAPANESE VESSEL, THE

END PAGE THREE

DocId: 32292681 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

P 0

PAGE FOUR

"ASAKA MARU HAD A SIMILAR INCIDENT AT TAMPA, FLORIDA, ON

MAY THIRTY, LAST AND THIS VESSEL, TOO, HAD PREVIOUSLY SAILED

FROM MIAMI, FLORIDA. HE ADVISED THAT THIS VESSEL IS PRESENTLY

BEING TOWED TO MOBILE, ALABAMA.

TAMPA AI TAMPA, FLORIDA. IF NOI ALREADY DONE, ASCERTAIN

CIRCUMSTANCES RE DAMAGES TO THE "ASAKA MARU".

MOBILE AT MOBILE, ALABAMA. WILL UPON ARRIVAL OF THE

"ASAKA MARU", INTERVIEW SHIP PERSONNEL FOR ALL PERTINENT

INFORMATION®

MIAMI AI MIAMI, FLORIDA. WILL OBTAIN ALL PERTINENT

INFORMATION REGARDING "MIKAGESAN MARU AND "ASAKA MARU WHILE

THEY WERE DOCKED AT MIAMI AND ATTEMPT TO DEVELOP ANY SUSPECTS.

HOUSTON AT HOUSTON, TEX. WILL AI PIER TWO ONE, INTERVIEW

SHIP PERSONNEL OF THE "MIKAGESAN MARU FOR ALL PERTINENT

INFORMATION AND EXAMINE DAMAGED AREA OF VESSEL. P

END

HOLD AFTER ACK

WPK

FBI WASH DC

QK

DocId: 32292681

Page 7

---

