# docid-32586370

## Page 1

Report Form

FD-263 (5-12-55)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Beporting Office

MIAMI

Office of Origin

MIAMI

TITLE OF CASE

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

Date /15/59

Investigative Period

11/19/58-1/9/59

ROSTEPHEN J. LABADIE

CHARACTER OF CASE

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Typod By:

mbs

Le

1-23.

filtry

Approved

Copies made:

REFERENCES: Report of SA STEPHEN J. LABADIE, dated 10/2/58,

at Miami.

Miami letter to Bureau, dated 10/23/58.

- рж -

ADMINISTRATIVE

Three copies of this report are enclosed to the

Bureau in order that one copy may be transmitted to the

Legal Attache, Havana, Cuba, for information, as the Legal

Attache is continuing to maintain coverage on subject.

Since there is no indication that the subject has

returned to Tampa, Florida, and is still residing in Havana,

and the Legal Attache, Havana, is continually following the

activities of the subject in Havana, the Miami Office is

placing this case in a pending inactive status for a period w

I Chang:

Do sot wilts is spaces balow

92+2281-88

JAN 15 1959

REG. 19

3 - Bureau (92-2781)

2 - Miami (92-88)

::6.4710

1259

Property of FBI - This roport is locuod to you by the FBI, and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

# U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1955 0 344750

HH 45966 DooId:32586370 Page 1

---

## Page 2

MM 92-88

"organized labor union is not and would very likely oppose

any precipitate move to shutter the casinos and throw

several thousand union men out of

work,"

MM I-3 advised SA JOHN D. MEDAGLIA on January 8,

1959, that the rumors that subject had been in Tampa were

not true and that if subject had been in Tampa he certainly

would have known about it. MM T-3 said the general talk in Ybor

gene eat y

City section of Tampa at the present time is that subject

"will get squared away" with the new regime in Havana and

continue gambling activities there. He said there is

no indication subject is to return to Tampa.

As of January 7, 1959, MM T-4 advised subject has

not travelled between Tampa and Havana on regularly scheduled

flights. They advised SARAH TRAFFICANTE and MARY JOSEPHINE

TRAFFICANTE both travelled to Havana from Tampa on December 22,

1958, and then returned in the same manner aboard National

Airlines plane arriving Tampa at the end of December, 1958.

On January, 81959, A. J. MIXSON, Agent in Charge,

Immigration and Naturalization Service, Tampà, advised

subject's wife returned to Tampa on the night of January 7,

1959, via National Airlines from Havana, Cuba.

CRIMINAL RECORD

There is no new information.

ASSOCIATES

AT TAMPA, FLORIDA

FRANKS IECIDUE

4501 10th Avenue

Tampa,-Florida

FBI Number 764 739 B

INS

REVIEWED BY FBVIFK TASK FORCE

ON

10123195 JmL/DAB/piotrps

NELSASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

- 3 -

Suit jove

NH 15966

DooId: 32586370 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

INFORMANT PAGE

I-1 is FRANK J. FALSONE, JR., son Of PCI FRANK J. FALSONE, SR.

who requests his identity not be disclosed outside this

Bureau

T-2 is MM 416-C, whose identity is known to the Bureau.

T-3 is A. J. GRIMALDI, SR., PCI, Miami.

T-4 is TOM GALVIN, Immigration and Naturalization Inspector

who meets all incoming out of country flights to Tampa.

T-5 is PCI ALBERTO SUAREZ ALEMAN, who is employed as a

combination doorman and caretaker at Calle 12 No. 20,

Havana, Cuba, residence of subject.

I-6 is FRANK J. FALSONE, SR., PCI.

T-7 is former PCI GOFFREDO CELLINI, Havana.

T-8 is HAV - 31.

T-9 is PCI MAXIMINO GONZALEZ FAGIN, bellboy, Hotel Sevilla

Biltmore, Havana, who has furnished reliable information

in the past.

T-10 is HAV - 33.

ING

REVIEWED BY FBUJFK TASK FORCE

ON

10/23/45 JML/DABIPWITRE

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DEARL

- 13 -

/gert-p01

HH 45966 DocId: 32586370

Page 3

---

