# docid-32308452

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/26/201

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10294-10310

HQ

105-110398-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

SAC, MM

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 05/03/1962

PAGES:

8

SUBJECTS :

GPH, LL, ASSOC; ACA, PLOT, SHIP, SS WILLIAMS

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC LHM

Released under the John

F. Kennedy

Assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Note!.

Case#:NUT 54464 Date:

10-10-2017

v9.1

HH 54464

DocId: 32308452

Page 1

---

## Page 2

§D-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. Belmont.

Mr. Mohr..-

Mr. Callahan

FBI

Mr.

Conrad

Mr.

DeLoach

Date:

5/3/62

Mr.

Evans..

Mr.

Malone.

Mr.

Rosen

Transmit the following in

Mr.

Sullivan.

(Type in plain text off

Mr. Tavel

AIR TEL

Mr. Trotter.

AIR MAIL

Via

DECLASSINET BY SDS MAC

/K-sRriorty or Method of Mailing)

(JEL)

Tele. Room_

Miss Holmes.

Miss Gandy.

ON ./2-13.94 (JEK)

10-15

OM CONTAINED

SSIFIED

& INFORMATH

NAS ANCES

GIE SHOWN

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

Classhied ty

mitt

Declassify on: fana6b1ls6

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-6010) (e)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION AGERCPRTAN

MIES

LARRY J. LA BORDE

DECLASS ORATION AND/ORP IT TO SE

BOMBING MATTERS - THREAT

(00: Miami)

RELEASE I DA LAFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT

GmB 11-24-94 PACE

Pleas

Remytels 4/24,26/62 entitled LARRY J. LA BORDE . ET

AL; IS - CUBA; also Butel to Miami 5/1/62, as above captioned.

s=1:0

11y-2

Enclosed are 9 copies letterhead memo dated and

SEE REVERSE

captioned as above.u

SIDE FOR

CLA

On 4/24/62 Mr. GREG MARUCA, CIA, Miami, was ad-

vised of information set forth in retels.

He said LA BORDE

was of operational interest to CIA but was dropped a couple

months ago.

MAX (LNU), mentioned previously as contact of

LA BORDE at Key West,

(IND) 22. ,

Fla., according to MARUCA, is in fact

a CIA agent in Key West, and was contacted by LA BORDE.

Contrary to claim of LA

BORDE, MAX tried to dissuade LA BORDE

from an attempt to blow up the "SS Williams".

MAX did not

Copy to: CIA/sicte/RAO

Comessi

info.

257.117

give LA BORDE permission to proceed, and CIA has not

authorized this operatio

05-110398-4

EX-1059

Bureau (Enc 9) (AMS M)

20 MAY 5

1962

by ruling

Date

Miami

1 - [134-238 Sub Al

Agency G-2

RJD: neb legh

(5)

Date Forw.

MOST, ERD

5/8/6.2

ENCHOSURE

How Forw

C O a WICK

Approved:

MAY 15

Agent in Charge

eLICINES

BION 6080 LESTER

EYEAPT F

S CATEGOR

iT LATE GE DECLASSES CATION NDEFINITI

Classifled by No

secent gie's de

Category

Datg of Declass allon Indefinata

NW 54464 DooId: 32308452

Page 2

---

## Page 3

19.C1

MM 105-6010-

SEC)

Nan T-1 i the enclosed no 1e 639-37 4)

сі З.

NW 54464 DooId:32308452 Page 3

---

## Page 4

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

SEC

In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTIONTORI,

Florida

(JEK)

DECLASSIFICATION ANDURY 33

1962

Sp8 mAc/KSR

105-6010

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

10715.

#I THIS DOCUMENT,

GMB 11-29-94

Clastiad by Muttle Soury,

ALS INFORMAT TON CONTAINER

HEREIN IS UNCENSSEFTED

EXCOPE THERE SHOWE

Orlandioa

RE:

LARRY J. LA BORDE

Declassy i prote 35m/a

BOMBING MATTERS - THREATSSIFIED BY SPS MACILSE

08.12:12-94 (JFK

On April 24, 1962, MM T-1, who has been involved

in Cuban revolutionary activities during the past four years,

and who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised

as follows:

ATE

OFFIODS

Larry J. LaBorde, an American in Miami, Florida, who

is a sailor by occupation, claimed he had learned on Apri1 22,

1962, that the ship "SS)WIlliams", operating out of Miami,

running machinery to Cuba. LaBorde indicated he planned

to blow up this ship on its return to Miami.

LaBorde, according to MM T-l, i8 associated with

Antonio Cuesta, Gerald Patrick Hemming and Edward Collins in d

this plan to blow up the ship aft, (4)

Cuesta is

a Cuban national.

Hemming and Collins

SLIP (5)

are

American citizens, mercenaries and revolutionists, who

are not menbers of any Cuban revolutionary organization, but

are in constant contact with most Cuban anti-Castro organizations

in Miam1, 46F (4)

MM T-1 advised that on April 24, 1962, Cuesta visited

the Pier 3 area of the Miami Municipal Docks where the ship

ties up when in Miami, to familiarize himself with the area.

Cuesta said he had decided to use an aqualung to attach ex-

plosives to the ship.

4)

He claims to be an experienced diver.

On April 24, 1962, MM T-1 advised that LaBorde and

Collins on that date

also had visited the Pier 3 area of the

Docks to familiarize themselves with the general area..

LaBorde

planned to leave that evening for New Orleans to bring back (A)

(u)

CASSITED ASSITED LED TER

FEMPT FROM GES CATEGORY 8-2-17

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATIONANDE FINITE

105-110398-4

ENCLOSURE

SIDE

OR

CLASBIFICAN

ACTION

NW 54464 DooId: 32308452

Page 4

---

