# docid-32292879

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/11/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

FBI

RECORD SERIES :

124-10210-10155

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-327

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, TP

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/20/1961

5

LST, ASSOC, DREAM BAR, MISUR, ADMIN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

- CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

_ 05/04/1995.

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

INC MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32292879

24

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note)?

DATE: 11-14-2017

SAC, Tampa

(66-231)

REC. 12

Director, FBI (92-2781)

SANTO TRAFFICANTI, JR.,

aka.,

9-27-61

-327

JUNE

SENTS IS USCEASSIFTED

ALT, INVORMATION CONTAINE

Reur FD-142 dated 9-20-61.

Bureau authority is granted for installation of

misur at residence of Joe R. Diez, 4950 Puritan Road, Tampa,

for a period of sixty days commencing at the time of

activation, providing naximum security is assured.

The Bureau should be imnediately advised at the time

this source is activated and symbol number should be furnished

as well.

In the event authority is desired for continuance

beyond the date authorized, subnit appropriate recommendations

by FD 143 to reach the Bureau

at least five days prior to the

expiration of this period.

After installation is effected,

submit weekly sirtel sumary of pertinent infornation received

from this source to the Bureau.

In the event information of

immediate interest or significance is received, it should be

immediately forwarded to the Bureau by separate, appropriate

communication.

All leads arising from this source should be

given immediate attention and appropriate inquiry promptly made

to fully round out the picture where this is necessary.

1 - Mr.. J. D. Donohue

1 - Mrs. Buck

PRS: pew

§ COUVER

1961 4 8 d3S

Tolson

Belmont .

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

DeL.ouch

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter la

Tele. Roon"

•Ingram

741101

50B wakeyi

DocId: 32292879

Page 2

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREINES UMCLASSIFIED -

Santo Trafficante has been designated for "crash" investi

gation.

Joe R. Diez has been identified as closely aligned with

the Trafficante bolita operation and has been known to attemst

recruitment of workers in this operation, as well as being a key

racketeering figure all his life.

Indications now are that

Diaz may possibly become:the key man in the Trafficante organization.?

Diez is now building a new home on a 75-acre

tract of land located

in an isolated area with access by a single lane road.

A vault is

being constructed in the, house complete with telephone and air

conditioning nits and heating unit. This house appears well suited

for use as a bolita bank of check-up spot for meetings with hoodlums.

Coverage will provide information on those active in this operation

(bolita) and activities of Trafficante and his organization. Misur

will be located in the vault and possibly additional installatior

in other section of house. Cost

estimated at $25 per monthe and to be

monitored

in thè Tampa Office

MAIL ROOM

•ENÉTYPE UNIT L

OCT 11196

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote)?

DATE:

гD-142 (Rev. 6-2-61)

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

irector, FBI (Bufile 92-2781

FROM

вАс, Тапра (86-231)

JUNE

DATE:

9/20/61

SUBJECT:

RECOMMENDATION FOR INSTALLATION OF TECHNICAL OR MICROPHONE SURVEILLANCE

RE: Title

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR. aka

Character of Case ANTIRACKETEERING

Field Office

TAMPA

Symbol Number Bu. will be advised when approved

Type of Surveillance (Technical or Microphone)

1. Name and address of subject:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

2. Location of technical operation:

JOE R. DIEL

4950 Puritan Road

Tampa, Florida

3.

Other technical surveillances on same subject:

Misur requested on Dream Bar, Tampa

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED-

4. Cost and manpower involved:

(a) Cost:

Estimated cost of leased line, about $25 per month.

(b) Manpower: Two agents "daily.

(JK)

32Y

EX 100

REC-12 92-2781=

20

St 2851961

5: Adequacy of security:

Installed with 'full security,

to be brought into Tămpa Office

and operated in technical area of vault.

Wall ts de dies auth t Sunny: 9/20/01

Woe to Tarita

Registered Mail

PRS :Pew

9.20.61

DocId: 32292879 Page 3

---

