# docid-32320114

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

3/31/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

" AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

FBI

124-10372-10446

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62C-HQ-1029205-1518

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

MI

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

07/30/1998

5

JFKARCA OF 1992

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

3

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/27/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32320114

Page 1

96

---

## Page 2

Released the ones merMAke don Records Collection Act BE 19936644 US 3193 Cater.

15art6

Rese

FBI FACSIMILE

COVERSHEET

..

PRECEDENCE

• Immediate

• Priority

Routine

CLASSIFICATION

• Top Secret

Secret

Confidential

• Sensitive

• Unclassified

то:

Milwaukee

Facsimile Number:

-414.276.6560

Arn:

Lorraine Jachinsky

¡Nama dean Taleprono,

From: HQ OPCA

JFK Task Fore

Subjec: JEK.

Kecords

Time Transmitted:

Sender's Initials:

Number of Pages: -

including Cover Paru)

5

Date: 30 guly 98

Special handling Instructions: Suspesuse le August

Originator's Name: batica D. Grace

302

Telephone: 324-6182

Originator's Facsimile Number: 202 324-3409

Approved:

429-HQ-1029205 - 1518

.NDEED.com

Treat As original

JUL-38-1998

DocId: 32320114

Page

15:18

202 324 3409

---

## Page 3

ReLeASeden Records Collection Act elf e8t US USC-2H03 Notes.

81231118951.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Precedenea: PRIORITY

Date: 07/08/1998

TO:

All Field Offices

Legat Mexico City

Fron: Office of Public and congressional Affairs

JAK TASK FOrCE

contacts:

i Porscherine

Catherine Lamey, ext. 6185

IuAn Wilking or Carol Keeley,

ext. 0674

Approved By: Keelay Carol I

Drafted By: Wilkins LuAnn M.

Case IN #: 62-110-1029205

Title:, JOHN F. KENNEDY RECORDS COLLECIION

ACT OF 1992 (The Act)

synopsis: To further clarify the referenced EC, more specific

instructions are set forth.

To assist in the searches for the

"core and related subjects', biographical data regarding these

subjects is enclosed.

Reference: 62-H0-1029205 Serial dtd 5/29/98

Enclosures: Biographical data concerning the core and related

subjects'.

Detaila:

In referenced connunication, each field office was

requested to

seaich for additional records related to the JFK

assassination, as well as, search any and all office space.

storage areas,

or archived material for any materials related to

the assassination.

This conmunication resulted in questions

about the extent of the search:

Each field office should exhaust every possible avenue

to locate both newly created material and any pre-JFK Records

collection Act material that may not have been located in prior

searches, including the subjects listed as core and related

subjects'.

Any and all indices should be searched (not an

updated search and the search slips, both negative and positive

should be forwarded to the Historical and Executive Review

Unit/JFK Task Force.

Any. material surfaced through this new

search should be noted in the responsive EC as material not

previously accounted for in the prior search and the originals

forwarded to the JFK Task force immediately.

To assist in the search for the core and related

subjects', biographical data is being furnished which should

assist you.

Please expand the search to include "Presidential

Assassination Threats of JFK priOr to 11/63".

JUL-30-1996 15:19

DocId:32320114 Page 3

202. 324 3499

99%

P. 02

---

## Page 4

RELeaSE SHARPENden Records Collection Act 88 1893dbl UseBles Notes.

TO:

All Fiedd Offices From: Office of public

ánd Congressional

Affairs

RE:

62-40-1029205, 07/06/1998

LEAD (8):

sat Lead 1:

ALL RECHIVING OFFICES

Each field office conduct a new indices search for any

additional assassination related information that may have been

placed on record since

prior responses to the les flation search not to inelude tha

conduct separate searches

for the

"core and relatad subjects.

Also, each field office should check any old

"archived" SAC or other material that may be stored in the

office.

Any original materials located, AlL indices cards, and

all search slips should be forwarded to the HERU/JFK Task Force

to the attention of Catherine Lamey, Room 11144, by JUly

1998.

4

JUL-30-1998 15:19

DocId: 32320114

Page 4

202 324 3409

99%

TOTAL P.05

P. 05

---

