# docid-32290448

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10205-10224

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-1242

Released under the John

Assassination Records

Collection Act of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 45966 Date:

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

HALL, WENDELL W. JR.

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/27/1967

PAGES :

40

SUBJECTS :

LST, BKG INVEST, LCN, ASSOC, REL, TRA, B/F INT, TELCAL,

SURVEILLANCES, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4; 11(a)

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF IRS

COMMENTS :

v9.1

ITH 45966

2

DocId: 32290448

Page 1

---

## Page 2

_JEK

•Act 6(4)

MM 92-88

The hospital is a separate non profit organization

which leases its land and building for $30,000 per month.

The hospital is a 250 bed hospital and its evaluation is

based

on a figure of $23,000 per bed. Brusa, Inc. is a

real estate holding company which owns the building and the

15 acres of land at 1475 West 49th Street, Hialeah, Florida

which the palm Springs General Hospital is located

INFORMANT'S

MM T-1 IS EDWARD E. MORRIT, Miami, Florida (protect

by request).

MM T-2 is

Miami, Florida

(protect by request)

- MM T-3 iS:

Agent THOMAS LOPEZ, Internal Revenue

Service, Miami

Florida (protect by request)

MM T-4 is

PCI

MM T-5 is MM 1231-C-TE.

MM T-6 iS MM 1219-C

MM T-7 iS JOHN MAPLES, Miami, Florida (protect by

request

MM T-8 is former, PCI

Miami,

Florida (protect by request)

MM T-9 iS MM 984-C-TE

MM T-10

is SERGIO CASTRO, New York, New York

(protect by request)

REVIEWED BY ESTUFK TASK FORCE

2zkd dut

Ô PELSASE IN FOLL

C*

COVER PAGE

PELEASE IN PART

SCAL DENIAL

45966:

Docld:32290448 Page: ?

---

## Page 3

FD-204 (Rev. 3-3-59)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

Field Office File No.:

Title:

- U.S: Attorney, Miami, Florida Attention:

Departmental Attorney WILLIAM EARLE)

1 - U.

• S:

Attorney, Tampa,

Florida

WENDELL W. HALL, JR.

ROV 2-7 • 1967

92-88

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR.

Office:

Miami, Florida

Bureau File No.:

92-2781

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Synopsis: .

Subject in Miami,

Fiorida. 10/19/67,

through 10/21/67,

10/30/67, through 11/6/67, and 11/13/67g

, through 11/16/67.

Travel of the subject between Miami and Tampa on 11/13/67,

and 11/16/67,

verified. Various subscribers to telephone

numbers found in the address book of the subject interviewed.f/c

Information regarding. FRANK RAGANO and NANCY PALA set forth.

Miami source advises that STIrANO ANTHONY RANpAZZO, MIamI

LCN member, was a member of the TRAFFICANTE LCN "family"

On 10/30/67, subject met in Miami with JAMES PLUMERI, LCN

"CAPO" of the LUCHESE

"family" and with GEORGE JOSEPH

NOBILE, LCN member of the GENOVESE: "family"

On 11/1/67;

subject, RANDALZO and VINCENT AMATO, accompanied by their

wives, attended the wake fôr/THOMAS

ALTAMURA, Miami LCN figüre

who had been murdered on 10/31/67. Additional activities

of the subject while in Miami set forth. ARMED AND 'DANGEROUS.

÷ p.-

DETAILS

Il PERSONAL HISTORY

A RESIDENCE

The subject and his wife JOSEPHINE MARCHESE

TRAFFICANTE continue

to maintain their Miami residence at

740 NE 155th Street, Miami, Florida.

Intr

92.2781-1242

This document contains neither recommendations' nor conclusions of the FBI: It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and'

45966 DocId:32290418

Pare gits contents are not to be distributed outside your agency

---

## Page 4

MM: 92-88

947-3727

403 Golden

more about TRAFFICANTE other than what he had read in the

newspaper

B.

INVESTIGATION REGARDING NANCY PALA

AND FRANK RAGÁNO

On. October 18, 1967, MM T-3 advised

JEK

The 1022 edition of the Miami Herald" contains

the

following articles

"Rizzo Signs Balloon Note

IS. A. RIZZO has signed a short term 7 per

cent $100,000 balloon mortgage.

Lending the

money are SANFORD and MARVIN M. BACON.'

Secured

by the note are 27.3 acres of RU 4M apartment

land in Saddle Ridge Lakes, RIZZO's new development:

just west of. Ives Estate. A balloon mortgage is a

debt where.

the

balance of the principal becomes due

in full after a short period, in this case in 10

days

On October 26,

1967, MM T-4 advised that NANCY

PALA has been in FRANK RAGANO's law office,

Suite 608,

Ainsley Building, on a daily basis since RAGANO had opened

his Miami office

She appears to be acting

as secretary

and receptionist in this law office,

- 10

27811/242

Mw 45966 DocId:32290448

Page

---

## Page 5

MM 92-88

On October, 31

October

11967, MM T-3 advised that on

30, 1967,

he observed a man named "JIMMIE" and a man

named "GEORGE" engaged in conversation at the bar of Capra's

Italian Restaurant,

sath and Biscayne Boulevard. They were

sitting at the bar with a number of other unknown. Italians.

"GEORGE" was telling "JIMMIE" that he had started to go by

his house earlier in the day but had seen an unmarked police

car sitting near "JIMMIE's"

house.

At About 9:00 PM, SANTO TRAFFICANTE entered the

bar alone and went to the bar where he sat down with the

two men:

He conversed with 'GEORGE" and after a few minutes,

"GEORGE" and the others left the bar leaving TRAFFICANTE

in the restaurant and conversed for about 30-a5 minutes.

and wur at the bard they then moved to a corner tapt te

JIMMIES IS JAMES PLUMERI,.

also known as JIMMIE DOYlE,

Capo in the LUCHESE "family" of the LCN and prominently

mentioned as a possible replacement as "boss" of the family

since the death of, LUCHESE.

PLUMERT resides at 9224 Dickens,

Surfside, Florida and is subject of Bureau file 92-2984,

New York 92-675, Miami 92-116.

'"'GEORGE!'

IS GEORGE JOSEPH NOBILE

also known as

& GEORGIE: HOOKS,1

a "soldier" in the GENOVESE "family" of the

LCN and long known to be involved in narcotics trafficking

He is a cousin of FRANKIE DIO, currently serving a long

narcotics conviction. NOBILE resides at 501 95th Street,

Surfside, Florida, and is the subject of Bureau file 92-8998,

New York 92-14173 Miami: 92-1730

26

22-278111242

IN 45966 Docta:32290448 Paue S

---

## Page 6

MM 92-88

On November 2, 1967, the current Miami city

directory refiected the Argenio Furniture Company, Inc.,

located at 12559 Biscayne Boulevard,

telephone 754-5821

The owner is CARMEN ARGENIO who resides with his wife

MARY C. at 12810 Maple Road, North Miami, Florida.

The records of theMiami Office reflected that

CARMEN ARGENIO, born 1903 in Buffalo, New York, owned a

furniture company in Buffalo until 1955.2 From 1956 until

1959 he sold real estate in Miami for Hamilton Reality.

Since 1959 he has owned the Argento Furniture Company in

Miami. As of 1962, the Argenio Furniture Company held a

lien on an automobile/ owned by SANDRA RANDAZZO, daughter

of TONY RANDAZZO.

On November 7,

1967,

MM T-3 advised that on the

evening of November 6, 1967, about 6:30 PM, SANTO TRAFFICANTE

entered Capra's Restaurant,

84th and Biscayne, where he met

FRANK RAGANO and NANCY PALA. After a few minutes, TRAFFICANTE

left the restaurant alone.

On November 7

1967

, MM T-6 advised that to date.

TRAFFICANTE had been unable to obtain any financing for

his new Dodge which he was going to bay at Biscayne Dodge.

Prior investigation has reflected that Miami

telephone number 949-7885 was called from the Tampa residence

of the subject.

29

92-278/- 1242

15966

* Do

: 32290448.

Page 6

---

