# docid-32304445

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/15/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10286-10075

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

100-30067-1ST NR 128

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE:

FBI

LEG, PA

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 11/19/1959

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

[Restricted}

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

y9.1

DocId: 32304445

Page 1

4

---

## Page 2

Released under the Ton F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hotel.

DATE:' M1-14-2017

American Embassy

Paris 8, France

SECRE

Date:

To:

Iron:

Subject:

Hovenbar 19, 195%ECBE1

Dipoctor, FBI (100-333702; 100-30067)

Legat, Paris (100-1058)

JOHN PIZIMAN

SECURITY MATTER

C

MARGARETE ADIER PIETHAN

INTERVAL SCOURITY • C

ACT YIMPORALNOTON CONTASIES

AZUCH IS UNCIA ESPIND TO CESS

MONGO SEOWEN ORNERVE SEE

1070-94

Gas: one by

5p8 maride

mer ascity wins less

JFK

Re Paris letter 10/15/59.

There is enclosed for the Bureau the original of

a memorandun received in French on 11/4/59 from the Direction

do la Surveillanes du Torritoire (DBI), French domostie

counterespionago service.

Tals contains brief sumaries

of

information from the files of the Dst regarding individuals

whose names

were found in the address bpok of JOH PINTMAN. (S)

the files of the Peris office are being searched

rogarding thee nenes, and separate communications will be

furmished on each individual on whom the Peris office has a

file.

It is requestod that the Bureau have this memorandum

translated,

and that a copy of the translation be furnished to

thia office.

It is noted that the french ask that they

be advised

1f any of these individuala have been

Identified as Soviet

agents.

It is further noted that several of these individuals

are identified by the DSI as Soviot agents.

It would be appre

clated if the Bureau could furnish any pertinent information

available to comply with the request of the ost.

(5)

ORIGINAL COPY FILED IN /

Enclosure = 1

8 - Bureau (2 - Los Angeles)

(2 - San Francisco)

1 • Parla

NWP: CM

6682

U:: 135

ZEPHETSECRET

1100-300607

NOT RECORDED

46 NOV 25 1959

DocId: 32304445 Page 2

---

