# docid-32288097

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

• Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI.

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10198-10373

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2781-774

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

08/08/1963

3

LST, INVEST, OC, THP

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

- 10/15/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

INC NOTE

w9.1

NW 45966 DocId: 32288097 Page 1

40

---

## Page 2

ANUCURE SUREAD OF INVE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

AUG & 1963

V

TELETYPE

Mr.

sullivan

l'avel

Hass

URGENT

TO

8-8-63

3-52

PM EST SHR

DIRECTOR,

"FBI /92-2781/

FROM

SACE

MIAMI /92-88/. 2 P

. SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JR., AKA, AR.

THE MIAMI NEWS, SEVENTH LAST, CONTAINS FRONT PAGE STORY

CAPTIONED HIGH EXPOSES MIAMI HOODS. THIS ARTICLE BEGINS FOLLOW-

ING UP SENSATIONAL NEW DISCLOSURES OF NATIONAL CRIME OPERATIONS,

MAYOR ROBERT KING HIGH TODAY RELEASED THE NAMES OF SIXTY SEVEN

HOODLUMS WHO HAVE SETTLED IN THE MIAMI AREA.

HIGH CALLED THE LOCAL CRIME CONGREGATION A SHOCKING SITUA-

TION AND SAID IT WOULD REQUIRE TWENTY FOUR HOUR VIGILANCE OF

VARIOUS LAW AGENCIES TO KEEP THE MOBSTERS UNDER CONTROL.

HE SAID THAT HIS LIST, HEADED BY SUCH CHARACTERS AS SANTOS

TRAFFICANTE, FORMER CUBAN AND FLORIDA WEST COAST GAMBLING CZAR,

WAS OBTAINED FROM THE MOST RESPONSIBLE LAW ENTORCEMENT SOURCE.

REMAINDER OF ARTICLE NAMES TRIGGER MIKE COPB84AO.68OE

FISCHETTI, JOE INDELICATOÇANGE

ANGERSOLA, MURRAY HUMPHREYS,

END PAGE ONE

e roili.ea

10 MOGL

5

AUG

P13

19313

× 724

7 3F0N 23

1963

EX 104,

A TeLe XEN OR BELMONT FÓR THE DIRECTOR

AUG 20 1963

Jost

NW 45966 DocId:32288097 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PAGE TWO

REGARD TO FALCONE, FOLLOWING IS QUOTE COLON THERE-S SALVATORE

FALCONE, WHO ATTENDED THE APALACHIN, N. Y. MOBSTER CONFERENCE

ALONG WITH TRAFFICANTE. TRAFFICANTE WAS ONCE CONVICTED OF .

BRIBING A ST. PETERSBURG DETECTIVE FOR BOLITA PROTECTION BUT

WAS ACQUITTED AT A SECOND TRIAL WHILE HIS BROTHER, HENRY,

WENT TO PRISON.

ALSO SET FORTH IS LIST OF SIXTY SEVEN NAMES AND ADDRESSES

FOLLOWED BY TERSE CHARACTERIZATION. SUBJECT LISTED AS TRAFFICANTE,

SANTOS, FIVE TWO THREE NORTHEAST SEVENTY FIRST ST., TAMPA DASH

NARCOTICS. FRONT PAGE ALSO CONTAINS PHOTO OF SUBJECT AND OTHER

ABOVE MENTIONED INDIVIDUALS.

THE MIAMI HERALD TODAY CONTAINS PAGE TWO ARTICLE CAPTIONED

HIGH WANTS FBI TO WATCH COUNTY. THIS ARTICLE STATES MAYOR HIGH

WILL GO TO WASHINGTON AND ASK THAT FBI AGENTS BE ASSIGNED TO

+.

KEEP SIXTY SEVEN BIG-TIME CRIMINALS LIVING IN DADE UNDER

SURVEILLANCE.

PCI

ADVISED EIGHTH INSTANT THAT HE

HEARD RECENTLY SUBJECI MADE TRIP TO PUERTO RICO WITHIN RECENT

MONTHS. INFORMANT NOT IN POSSESSION OF FULL FACTS BUT OF IM-

PRESSION SUBJECT MET DINO CELLINI IN PUERTO RICO. CELLINI

IS MIAMI RESIDENT FORMERLY ASSOCIATED WITH SUBJECT IN GAMBLING

CASINOSINgCUBA INFORMANT TO TRY AND OBTAIN FURTHER DETAILS.

AIRMAIL COPIES TAMPA.

END AND ACK PLS

5-01 PM OK FBI WA OS

-990

TU DISCO CC: MR. EVANS

HW 45966 DocId: 32288097 Page 3

OTHER 4

---

