# docid-32337921

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

4/17/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90139-10048

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-210-3089

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MM

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

05/16/1961

5

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 01/26/1999

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 45752 DocId: 32337921 Page 1

---

## Page 2

05-

,FD-36 GRev; 12-13-561°

FBI

Date:

MAY 1 & 1961

Transmit the following in .

1113191

Via

0n245668510 pa

DECLASSICY CO:COA

lexi ơi côde)

AIT

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

5668500 G4=826/99-2K

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-12-210)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-1747)

RE:

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

such sun

057

ONL;

HE4E1ADS 003605: 161 NO ЕХСЕРТ

WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

11326

Transmitted herewith are eleven copies of a

letterhead memorandum, dated and captioned as above,

with two copies suggested for the use of Legat, Mexico.

For the purpose of continuity, the results of this

interview are not divided into a number of short items

but copies are placed in the file captioned:

"CUBA's

86

JUSTICEs

Cuban. Minister of State.

described as having

Lewpojn

cy different from that of

her sisters

ly regarded fast a Communist:

SVH

DECLIS

REIC

ILVIA KOURLI

all another sister

PORF TRIDYPENDAS;,

described by Dr. (SAMU married to

NODARSE

jan anti-CASTRO refugee residing in the

Marty Ge, as an "autentico," (member of the Authentic

strong Catholic, and anti-Communist

Linches te Belina

P

Bureau (Encl."

LIRAM - RMS 580:4041

2

- Philadelphia

(Engt)

- 2) (AM - RM)

'REG-

4

* - Міат (2 - 105>1747

Let ter At

10502877)

01-12-200 • 32

ELS /ems

(10)

Tile a co of alitt

and attachment en orce

a 221 MAY 27 1961

I RENE PELLEYA Y USTI.

and

1434-Тогу

202

Approved: 2

A JUNg gen in Chris SECRE

790г M

NAT.

SEC

NW 45752

DocId: 32337921

Page 2

SY

, COPY OF

ENCI, FILED IN

---

## Page 3

MM 105-1747

SECRET

PELLEYA appeared to be extremely fearful when

first interviewed by SAs WILLIAM A. WIGHTMAN and EDWIN

L. SWEET, on May 9S/1961. He stated he did not want his

name revealed to anyone in CIA or the State Department,

and in this connection, stated that ROA told hin o

Jecember (30th or December (3191960 that Russian Intelligenc

had told him that their information regarding the planned

attack of the United States on Cuba in January, 1961, came

from the Russian contact in CIA. The Russians stated out-

going President EISENHOWER wanted to leave the Cuban matter

cleaned up for incoming President KENNEDY, and the attack

would be before January 20, 1961.%

The possibility is recognized that CIA may have

intentionally sown the seed of this rumor with a known

or suspected Russian agent. It will be recalled that the

Cubans did convert Havana into an

armed camp from January. 2 -

20, 1961, but no attack occurred (Se

(5)

PELLEYA stated he is very

fearful of the United

States State Department, as he still has a brother and

relatives in Cuba& ROAltold him that when he was in thels

•United States, (he believed in November, 1960, but at any

rate, following the elections), he was visited in New York

V/by CHESTER BOWLES, or a representative sent by BOWLES

V/SPELLEYA was not clear on this)* The visitor asked ROA for

an unofficial opinion as to what reaction might be expected

from FIDEL CASTRO and the Cuban government if President

KENNEDY would make a friendly or conciliatory statement

regarding Cuba, such as something to the effect that every-

one makes mistakes, perhaps the Cuban situation should be

reevaluated, and indicate that the United States would

be willing to negotiate differences. The United States

would want to reestablish diplomatic relations, negotiate

a commercial treaty with Cuba, negotiate payment or

recognition of debt in some formffor confiscated American

properties in Cuba, and would desire that Cuba desist from

its anti-American propaganda campaign in the rest of Latin

America. FIDEL CASTRO allegedly found these unofficial

overtures unacceptable.

SECRET

(U)

TE QUeRTuT

MADE

ReesrAblist

dip. RelAT

IT would

beeN

AtTe

1-3-61

NW 45752 DocId: 32337921

Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 105-1747

SECRET

source went to Mexico on "'the Friday following

memorandum was on that same flight.

Source could furnish

him in the Cuban Department of Staté.8

Company o

source was a part owner 2f the Independent Petroleum

near Sancti Spiritus, anc

In addition, he was an

Octobe 51959 to April 205/1960. He stated that with on ®

assistance, he got out of Cuba on the pretext that he was

going [Lo Mexico and Canada locate new sources for imports, ks)

out of Cuba and[into a Catholic girl'

le had previously gotten two se of inge mantove, yes

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where there is the same Sister

uperior who had been their teacher before having to fle

his schoollis Ancilla Domini Academy, 700 Eas

Church Lane.

It has been constantly borne in mind that PELLEYA S

might be a plant, but he appeared very sincere and very

frightened, and in discussing his daughters and the good-

ess of the Catholic Sisters 3n accepting them, eve

though he had no money,

le became visibly disturbed, briefl

incoherent, and cried.

He examined both agents' wristwatches and appeared

greatly concerned that his interview might be recorded. He

has refused to come to the Miami Office. He has refused

to talk it notes are taken, and begged that his information

be so disguised as not to be traceable to him. (U)

• 3 -

SECRET

NW 45752 DocId: 32337921 Page 4

---

## Page 5

MM 105-1747

SECRET

lis wife is residing o

(5)

south Worth Court,

West, Palm Beach, telephone TE 2-5289.SHe can be reached

during the day at 2015 Southwest 84thl Avenue, Westchester,

Miamt, telephone (CA 6-30437(5)

The enclosed memorandum is classified "CONFIDENTIAL"

at informant's request and to protect additional members of

his family residing in Cuba.

LEADS:

Incoming manttle Guache light fom Havana arriving

should examine

Mexico about noon on April 21 or 2951961 for any_ data re

source and for complete name and data concerning CALCINES, 5)

and therearter conduct such investigation of activities of

as feasible, attempting to verify if, in fact,

Cuban Embassy is propaganda center for rest of Latin

America.

Source indicated a printing press is operated

there and the staff is much larger than officially appears.

two girls with paternal-maternal names of(PELLEYA KOURI (S)

philadelphia will discreetly verify enrol Imendlo

It should be emphasized that the inquiry is confidential.

REECRET

NW 45752 DocId: 32337921

Page 5

---

