# docid-32290349

## Page 1

'Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Coliection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10205-10125

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2258

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

09/17/1969

3

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

SGI, ASSOC, WHEREABOUTS, MX

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified.

4

Redact

04/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290349

271

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released

unter the: John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act

DATE:

NO, 10

STANT

OSA FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

* UNITED STATES C VERNMENT

Memorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171 ONFIDENTAL

DATE

FR

LEGAT, MEXICO (92-13) (P)

240/01

SUBJECT:

SAMUEL

[AR] 4

M.

GIANCANA,

INO

SHE REVENSE

SID9F27

-69

CLASCLZUAATION

ACTION

Belassily se: Drag

Rost

1383060

50 & LAL.

"ON-FCIM II,

ART OF REVIEW

INED

SIFIED

ON

INFORMATION CONTAINEL

Remylet 9-4-69.

REIN IS NO ASSPBEA

It will be recalled that MARIO GUERRA of the

Judicial Police in Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, originally

was furnishing this Office with information relating to the

Subject, and it developed that some of this information was

highly

questionable.

GUERRA' has recontacted this Office on

September 2, 10 and 12, 1969, to furnish information concerning

the Subject.

Although

he was not contacted or encouraged

do so, it is considered that this Office will continue to accep

many information he volunteers and, in the current instance, he

nurnished documents which seem to

be authentic relating to

•Subiect and his activities in

Mexico. Among these documents

are the following

A fourteen-page Spanish language copy of legal

documents relating to the corporation Las Nubes, S.A. (Sociedad

Anonima--corporation). This document indicates the corporation

was formed in Cuernavaca 1-1-65 by JORGE CASTILLO Z., RAUL

RIQUELME CIRES,

PORFIRLO LOPEZ ARELLANO, SARA OSNAYA PEREZ

and

MARIA LUISA GONZALEZ.

The purpose of the corporation was to

deal in real estate. CASTILLO was named the administrator.

They sought and obtained permission to form a corporation

from

the Mexican Secretary of State.

The corporation was formed in

the capital amount of 650,000 pesos ($52,000 U.S.).

There were

to be 650 shares at 1, 000 pesos eacher

with JORGE CASTILLO

subscribing and paying in cash for

each going to the others enumerated

shares. ly

and

Cicac?

CASTILLO is indicated as

Mexican del or Mexican

parents,

born

shreveport; Louisiana, address Lava 135

Pedregal d

ON CONTAI

DCLASSIFIED

Mexico City.

Similar data

is furnished concerning the other

OTHERNESE

shareholders.

20e sent thy day. to

Bureau

9-a5-18

(1 - Liaison Section) n

(2

- Chicago, 92-349)

REC-

ADE

HEREINIS

1 - Mexico City

CLASISIEKED BY

RSC: wr

CATEGORY

EXEMPT F

(6)

DATE OF DESLASSIFICATION INDEFINITE

CT

5010-108-02

2

196gBuy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings

5502

052

Hote) .

DocId: 32290349 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Aot of

DATE: 11-14-2017

1992 741 05C 2107

Hotel.

MEX 92-13 CUNADENWAL

Also furnished was a series of forms from the

Mexican Treasury Department described as corporate income

tax forms for the years 1965 through 1968.

part 1965

These were

reportedly filed at the Cuernavaca office

of the Mexican

Ireasury Department by Las Nubes, S.A., located at Rancho

CIONT IDI

Tetela, Cuernavaca,

and formed to operate in all kinds of real

estate and real estate development.

All of these forms

indicate no earnings in these years by the corporation and

therefore no taxes.

The assets of the corporation were listed

as buildings valued at 580,000 pesos, subsequently depreciated,

and a bank account which fluctuated from over 21,000 pesos

to under 1,500 pesos, whereas losses range from about 5,000

pesos on up to almost 40,000 pesos

A letter dated 8-18-69 was directed to Las Nubes,

S.A. by the Chief of the Federal Treasury Department office in

Cuernavaca.

He asks that they be informed the date that

Mr. RICHARD IZCALZETTI became an active partner in that

corporation. Also, as required by the law, they were to advise

concerning

their income and concerning the

two percent monthly

tax which they should have paid dating

back

days were given for the answer to this letter

xд)97

Three

GUERRA indicated that he had gotten

on a confidential basis from a contact of his in the Mexican

Treasury Department.

He advised that the Las Nubes Corporation

is in serious trouble with the Treasury Department on several

counts.

They have claimed losses every year and will have to

explain this to the Treasury Department since this makes the

corporation look like a phantom corporation, and losses cannot

be claimed indefinitely.

Supposedly they were to document these

Losses.

In addition,

they are being required to explain why

a two percent federal tax was not paid on the original

construction of the house. Supposedly an inspector from the

Treasury Department went to the house and checked on its satus

and was told that SCALZETTI was the owner. They found no record

concerning SCALZETTI and subsequently determined that the house

was in the name of a corporation.

Up until 9-10-69, Las Nubes,

S.A. had not responded to the letter from the Treasury Department

and was automaticallyly being fined 500 pesos ($40 U.S.) every

three days

However,

on 9-11-69, a Mr. MONTES, an accountant from

Cuernavaca, went to the office of the Treasury Department to? i

-2-

LENTIAL

CONFI

LANT IAL

902-19197

DocId: 32290349 Page 3

---

## Page 4

released under

DATE: 11-14-2017

The John

Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote).

MEX 92-13

CONFIDENTIAL

CONZERANTIAI

inquire about this matter.

He apparently offered to pay

any fines involved, but was told that it would still be

necessary

to

resolve the question of ownership and the past

taxes due

GUERRA

promised

torkeep this office advised of

developments

in

this

' matter, and Bureau and Chicago will be

kept advised

COMOOANTRER

902-10132

DocId: 32290349

Page 4

---

