# docid-32263470

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

10/20/20

AGENCY :

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

180-10110-10065

SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 047-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM: •

TO :

TITLE:

HSCA

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

03/17/1978

4

RIVERO, MANOLO RAY

FBI, FILES

DOCUMENT TYPE : REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS : Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/08/1993

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 3.

v91

NH 50529

DocId: 32263470

Page

1

---

## Page 2

Reg # Hand Carried

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

MANOLO RAY RIVERO File review, FBI, 3/17/78

File #65 - 76238

1. First telex dated June 1, 1977 to Director from San Juan

Marked "Secret"

Subject: Manuel Ray - Espinoage - Cuba

On May 23, 1977, SOURCE advised that a known Cuban intelligence

agent known as "CARLOS" stated that when

visited

Puerto Rico in January 1977, she was told by Manuel Ray that he

was interested in meeting with CUIS (Cuban Intelligence). RAY

said he would send her a letter in Cuba for contact.

"CARLOS"

made it appear that CUIS did not want any connection between

and RAY. CUIS wants no third party involvement.

Source says RAY's meeting with CUIS would be in the near future.

To date, RAY has not presented his permit to re-enter the United

States for extension or reissue nor has any information been

received as a result of the Fl stop placed with INS.

Therefore,

any foreign travel on RAY's part is not known. Subject has been

observed at home and attempts being made to develop a neighborhood

type source that can

advise on his travel.

CUIs could possibly

contact RAY in the U.S. but that is not their usual method of

operation.

Bureau requested to forward this information to Legats Mexico

City, Caracas and CIA.

(Penciled note here "Not necessary

since covered in leads to Legats Mexico and Caracas and CIA

S.J. tel da 5/12/77).

2.

Telex May 13, 1977 to Director from San Juan.

Secret

Ref: Bureau teletype to San Juan dated 3/12/77 entitled

"OCELOT"

On 4/6/77,

advised that during January 1977;

was visiting relatives in Puerto Rico.

At the direction of a

known Cuban Intelligence Service officer in Panama known as

"The General"

contacted RAY. Source advised that

RAY is a Cuban exile now living in Puerto Rico.

In approximately

1974, RAY had a construction business in Jamacia but had to

leave Jamacia due to visa reasons.

Source believed Cuban

government wanted RAY out of Jamacia.

told RAY

that Cuban government wanted to help him get his business visa

again in Jamacia. After the meeting with '

_ RAY

stated

he would have to think about the Cuban offer.

Review of San Juan indices reflects RAY's involvement in anti-

Castro activities

• in Puerto Rico and Miami -- was last affiliated

with PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO del PUEBLO (PRP). File reflects

that there were members of Cuban exile community who considered

RAY

as Pro-Castro.

RAY denied this in FBI interview on 8/24/74.

Said rumor based on his moderate stand that best way to get back

into Cuba and to overthrow CASTRO was through negotiations with

CASTRO.

HH 50529 DocId:32263470 Page 2

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 3

Manuel Ray review, 3/17/78

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

has been instructed to follow RAY's activities as

closely as possible, consistent with appropriate security.

San Juan feels that the investigation in this matter should, for

the present, be extremely discreet, slow and low key.

FCI

case progressing well, is of known quantity and has excellent

potential in both pro and anti-Castro areas. Nothing should be

done to jeopardize the

operation. If RAY finds out

FBI interested in him, he will know his contact with CUIS has

been blown

and

as a result the source of information could be

traced back to

thereby ending the

usefulness to the Bureau.

Since FBI has not conducted an investigation on RAY for some time,

San Juan feels that investigative technique now should be limited

to contacts with established sources and record and agency checks

that would not cause suspicion. Feels that survellances,

neighborhood sources, interview of RAY, mail cover, etc, would

arouse suspicion and

compromise

S. Juan feels if

RAY. cooperating with CUIS it will be a long going association

allowing him to become more deeply involved.

Also, it is possible information on RAY was passed to

a test of the

reliability. RAY may already have

been cooperating with CUIS and therefore. expected. to report FBI

interest in him, thereby implicating

The

'FCI

case which is too valuable an operation to loose, offers more

potential than RAY.

Even if he were eventually turned against

CUIS,

is in a better position than RAY' to infiltrate

CORU

for reasons set forth in their respective investigative

files, and thereby enhance his work with CUIS.

as

San Juan feels that if for some reason

the OCELOT case not

successful, or start to sour, more overt techniques could be

implemented in the Ray - aka

Espionage Cuba, case.

The longer RAY goes without detection the harder it will be for

him to pinpoint source of information should he detect FBI

interest in him.

4. Teletype July 27, 1977 to San Juan from Director indicates a

request is pending with CIA concerning RAY's foreign travel and

also attempting to verify RAY's contacts with Jamacian authorities.

5. Teletype Sept. 28, 1977, to Director from San Juan. Re:

August 30, 1977 and September 2, 1977.

On September 14, 1977 (3rd agency foreign deletions - 18 lines)

Re: Telephone # 305,226-4478, a confidential source who has supplied

reliable information in past advised that suscriber is MIRTA RAY,

9411 S.W. 4th Street, Apt. 405, Miami. Miami

indices. negative re:

MIRTA RAY.

HH 50529 DocId:32263470 Page 3

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

## Page 4

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

Manuel Ray review, 3/17/78

In a December 5, 1975 (?) FBI interview, RAY said he had a

contact in Mexico that provided him with information from

, Cuba -- identified as JOSE MARMOL DIAZ, Doctor of Commercial

Sciences, Roma IS, Dept. 201, Conia Juez, Mexico City. RAY

said MARMOL may have G-2

connections and

feeding false

information to him.

On May 18, 1977, RAY's INS file reviewed in San Juan. (1 1/2

page deletion, File #A7-056-497).

----- Also, if the CIA can

with due caution determine if visa work permit or similar

document was

revoked and then reissued by Jamacian authorities.

Bureau

is requested to contact their cources in Cuban exile

community to get information on RAY's current activities.

Miami asked

to review pertinent files on RAY and forward information

to San

Juan.

San Juan will contact its cources and conduct an appropriate

investigation to determine subject's current activities and

contacts.

San Juan wishes to eventually interview RAY with goal

of recruiting him as an Operation Asset directed against CUIS.

Interview being held in abeyance pending further investigation.

Interview premature now as not enough information available to

conduct a thorough and probing interview nor is there enough

material to confront subject with.

San Juan feels that this case offers excellent potential for a

double agent operation targeted against CUIS.

San Juan aware careful planning necessary to protect

its valuable source.

and

3. July 6, 1977,

San Juan to Director. Secret. Ref. San Juan

teletype to Director June 1, 1977.

San Juan has

evaluated this matter and makes following observations.

The initial allegation concerning RAY was made by

who

learned of CUIS interest in RAY

from CUIS itself, and from

In addition,

reported

that RAY

consented to meet with CUIS. Apart from CUIS, there are no

other individuals known to be aware of CUIS interest in RAY other

than the individuals referred to above. Accordingly, the allegation

concerning RAY is singular in nature and therefore an investigation

of RAY be extremely discreet.

reported on 6/2/77 RAY

indicated interest in participation in CORU. This indicated RAY

acting under direction of CUIS as he has not been active in anti-

Castro movement in last two years.

HH 50529 DocId:32263470 Page 4

COMMITTEE SENSITIVÉ

---

## Page 5

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

Manolo Ray:

October 12, 1964 memo from San Juan, marked Secret!

Subject: JURE

States that another government agency furnished infromation that

RAY was friendly with members of Puerto Rican group which

plotted to assassinate President Truman.

RAY is a good friend

of Puerto Rican Communist PEDRO ALBIZU CAMPOS.

When the White

House was being renovated, RAY had contact with Puerto Ricans

engaged in that work. He made many phone calls to the United

States (particulary Washington, D.'

C.) while he still lived in

Cuba.

Made calls from home of CARLOS GOVANTES who is an architect

and may now be living in Kansas City, Missouri and probably

employed by Klipper Company. Carlos has a brother Henry in

Silver Springs, Ma.

RAY has many enemies in Cuba who know him as a Communist. Some

of his supporters are working for Communists in Cuba.

A file summary on Ray states as follows:

Resume of RAY received by Bureau 6/22/64. RAY was an architect

in Ministry of Public Works during Batista regime and

at same

time traitorously Chief of July 26 Movement in Havana; great

friend of Engineer (ENU)

ARROYO, Minister of Public Works under

Castro; sanctioned as Minister, the Ten Laws of President MANUEL

URRUTIA, which led to communization of Cuba; denied refuge to his

brother, Rene, which resulted in the latter's being killed; and

continued as Minister and a friend of Castro after his brother's

death.

HH 50529

DocId:32263470

Page 5

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

