# docid-32286098

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

5/7/2015

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10194-10374

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-3171-2380

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO.: ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 01/18/1973

' PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

SGI, PASSPORT, RES

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

04/22/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32286098

Page 1

53

---

## Page 2

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44

USt 211

DATE:

11-14-20170

—...

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

0-1U/-9

"MAY 1962 EDITION

CONSOON

SSA GEN: REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES

.. ERNMENT

Memorandum

Hote) .

TO

OLAS

BY DEPRE

ACTING DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3371):

FROM

LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13)

(P)

CISIONS FANAL

PROVEN COMMITT

DATE: 1718-73

TE AGENCIES

OFFICES

TING

SUBJECT:

1R/S

AF

ROPRIATE AGENCIES

RID OF

iCES

SAMUEL

GIANCANA

CAROU

aka

ADVIS

OSRmO

Ber

SLIP

POUTING

Massile

DATE

Ass

1498

Declass

DADR

Enclosed

forward

16|3185

Louisia

AOTION

copy of subject's

photograph.(g X4)

Legal Berl

Beirut,

CLASS: & EXT:

Remylet 11-27-72. 14) V

REASON-ICIMIT, 155

16-35

DATE ON REVIEW --

For information of Legat,

Beirut, Chicago

that Subject was last issued

has

report

a U.s. passport,

'Z-1429747' at

the American Embassy,

Madrid, Spain, 7-6-71(2(4)

It is noted that recently MEX-334-PCI furnished

information tending to confirm the information previously

received from MEX-287 that the Subject has an apartment in

Beirut.

He said Subject has a very good contact in the govern-

ment there who meets him when he arrives to ease his entry.(u

In addition, MEX-raised tat subject's mexico

City attorney, JORGE CASTILLO,

recently showed a high official

of Mexican Immigration a postcard from Subject

from Beirut

apparently to demonstrate that Subject was not in Mexico

MAD. PAR, HO

Ice

lecêlene BEl

IeRm1531

JaL'bag

MEX-287 advised 1-10-73 that he has had no personal

contact with Subject in many months

and does not anticipate

any further contact due to the length of time that has passed.

In addition, due to his personal situation, he does noto

1D

ST-100

REC-63

Bureau (Enc

(1 - Foreign

Liaison Desk

Legate

Beirut,

92-1)

(1

Legat

Madrid,

Legat;

Paris,

Houston) (Info)

DECEMED

2121-

1380

A s0 1973°

(1

Francisco,

Info)

: (2

1 - Mexico City

Santa go, 5924349) "VH 39

DECLASSIFIED BY SaUCIN

RSC: wr

(11)

5 9 FEB5

1973

Classified by

Exempt from GDS, Ca

VASTON CONTAINEI

Buy U.S. Savings Bood Regulato he Parings PleNT

CARE OROT

CONE IDENTIAL

DocId: 32286098

Page 2

---

## Page 3

eleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aot of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

-DATE: 11-14-2017

MEX 92-13

BONT

ENTIAL

contemplate that he will be able to furnish any information

concerning subject in the future, although he will attempt

to relay. any such information should it come to his attention.

A mutual friend told him that Subject was in

Hawaii over Christmas, 1972, and he speculated that this might

be related to a new gambling law being proposed in Hawaiin

MEX-334-PCI, of dubious reliability, advised 1-4-73

that, as of that date, Subject was in San Francisco.

He said

Subject had several houses in Mexico and apartments in Paris

and Beirut. He said Subject meets every month with the current

head of the mob in Chicago

in and out of Mexico fes

U and has a foolproof way of sotting

MEX-34 advised 1-9-73 that Post Office Box 1066 in

Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, is still in the name

SCALZETTI,

address Nubes No. 2, Rancho

Tetela, Cuernavaca. (OCU)

He made further contact at the house called Quinta

San Cristobal in the Las Quintas section of Cuernavaca and

determined that the house has telephone 2-25-00. The houseCi,

was formerly the property of Mr. SCHULTZ, but he sold it to

some company and later it was occupied by a male foreigner

The house is currently vacant, according to the caretaker

It is noted tat this source advised that Subject

reportedly was in contact from Beirut with a Mexico City

architect named ROBERTO MORALES, OffiCe phone 514-1569, home

phone 535-3990. (AN(U)

Source speculated that it might be possible to

locate Subject in Beirut through long-distance calls to these

numbers or to the office of the

attorney CASTILLO, Mexico City

telephone number 566-5900. (8XCU)

Information copies to offices with some interest

in contents herein. ü

2

ENTTAY

1d-i03.3

DocId: 32286098 Page 3

---

