# docid-32113516

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

"Identification Form"

SILVILUI

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10001-10390

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 62-109060-8265

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 03/07/1988

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JFK, ASSISTANCE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 01/24/1995

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

DOeId: 32113516

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John E, Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act, of

7982NA1

1, USS

PP HQ

DE PAR #0894

0670734

CLASS

SRC* D

SITi

181

EROS M0 AKH

,156 /3

ZNR VUUUU.

P 070730Z: MAR 88

EM PARIS (175A-24) (P)

TO DIRECTOR, FBI

BT

PRIORITY

UNCLAS

ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN D

KENNEDY, PPSAKA: 001 DALLAS C

RE BUTEL, 2119/88. 6001096600 8a

2404

ON 3/3/88; ATTORNEY HENRI JURAMY, WHO REPRESENTS CHRISTIAN

DAVID PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INPORMATION AT THE OPFICE OF -LEGAT,!

PARIS.

TUROCE

HENRI ADVISED THAT HIS CLIENT, CHRISTIAN DAVID, WHOSE TRIAL

FOR THE MURDER OF A FRENCH POLICEMAN IN 1966 BEGAN ON 1/25/88,

AND IS CURRENTLY POSTPONED TO RESUME ON 3/22/88, GAVE HIM A:

LETTER WITH

INSTRUCTIONS THAT IT BE OPENED ONLY WHEN HE (DAVID)

• IS FREE.

THE ENVELOPE CONTAINS THE NAME OF THE THIRD PERSON INVOLVED

IN THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY. THE OTHER TWO

62-109060-8365

APR 15 1UdS

DEA

REVIEWED BY FBIJFK TASK FORCE

ON /2•195 dah

I RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

LI TOTAL DENLAL

1-5042

1 34 43

AUG

7 1989

DocId: 32113516

Page

2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F.

Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel.

DATE: 11-14-2017

==

•PAGE THREE: DE PAR 0894 UNC

PLOT.

HE ADVISED THAT DAVID HAD NOT TOLD HIM ANYTHING

EXCEPT

VAGUE ALLUSIONS AND HAD GIVEN HIM THE ENVELOPE. JURAMY RECEIVED

THE ONLY SPECIFIC INFORMATION HE KNEW FROM STEVE RIVELE, WHO HE

DESCRIBED AS HAVING BEEN COMPLETELY ENGROSSED WITH THE KENNEDY

ASSASSINATION FOR MANY YEARS.

LEGAI, PARIS ADVISED JURAMY THAT THE ONLY WAY AN INTELLIGENT

EVOLUTION OF DAVID'S INFORMATION WOULD BE TO HAVE AS COMPLETE AN

ACCOUNT AS POSSIBLE TO COMPARE AGAINST FACTS THE PLETHORA OF

INFORMATION ALREADY DEVELOPED IN THIS MATTER.

JURAMY

ADVISED HE WOULD ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN A COMPLETE

STATEMENT

FROM DAVID OF THE FACTS HE REMEMBERS OF THIS MATTER AND

IF HE IS SUCCESSFUL WILL PROVIDE IT TO LEGAT, PARIS.

COMMISSAIRE PRINCIPAL PAUL MILLAND, CHIEF OF INTERNATIONAL.

RELATIONS, POLICE NATIONALE

POLICE JUDICIAIRE, ADVISED THAT

JURAMY HAS THE REPUTATION IN FRANCE AS BEING SOMEWHAT PRIVULOUS.

LEGAT, PARIS CONSIDERS THE MERIIS OF JURAMY'S PROPOSAL

SUSPICIOUS AND RECOMMENDS THAT RIVELE BE INTERVIEWED IN DEPTH BY

AN. AGENT WELL-BACKGROUNDED IN THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION

INVESTIGATION TO MAKE A DETERMINATION OF THE RELEVANCE OF HIS

SOURCES AND INFORMATION. LEGAT; PARIS WILL FOLLOW WITH JURAMY

DocId: 32113516

Page 3

---

