# docid-32337895

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/17/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-90139-10022

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 109-12-228-638

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: CIA

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

05/14/1962

3

CIA LIAISON MATERIAL

VENEZUELAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/28/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

MEMO

v9.1

DocId: 32337895

16

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John

DATE: 11-14-2017

Kennedy

seassination Records

Celtention Act-of

Hotel.

Director

Central Intelligence Agency

and

general

prestige in Venezuela would be impaired.

In view

of this,

, the enclosed material should be treated on

a need-to-

know basis only and is not to

be

further dissenimated without

prior reference to this Bureau.

Enclosure

1 - Office of Security • Enclosure

Department of state

NOTE FOR SAC. MIAMI:

Reurairtel and memorandum dated 5/4/62 concerning

captioned matter.

The material furnished by formema, was deemed oi

sufficient importance to be furmished ClA and state bepartment

T9(41)

for an evaluation of its contents.

The nones of the persons

State will

to adequately protect the source's

We are also not in

a position to guarantee HAY 4 that we will not pass on the

identities of persons involved, at least to other U. S. Government

inasmuch as material

could be of such extreme importance

to evaluate same.

In view of HAV-4's present location in Venezuela,

you should not

enter into any relationship with him whereby he

would reel he is once again being operated and directed by the

Bureau. It is also not feasible for a

representative of the

bureau

to meet HAV-4 in Venezuela.

•2.

DocId: 32337895 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F'. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2TU7 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

Director

Central Intelligence Agenc

NOTE ON YELLOW:

This letter is classified "Confidential" as it contains

material furmished by a former source of contimuing value, the

disclosure of whom could jeopardize his future effectiveness.

Former HAY 4,

currentlyra, resident of Venezuela, furnished

indicated that members of this group desired to cooperate with FBI

in turnishing material regarding venezuela.

He was advised that

Bureau could not enter into such

i a relationship

but if persons

group came to U.S. on business, Miani Office would accept any data

they desired to furnish. HAV-4

also expressed desire to meet

Bureau representative in Venezuela to rurnish data regardimg

Venezuela but this is not feasible.

beLleved materia

interest to request evaluation of

it by CIA and State.

HAV advised the above group had no confidence in cIA

or the U. S. Embassy in Caracas and did not desire to deal with

them.

DocId: 32337895

Page 3

---

