# docid-32290085

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

4/28/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER:

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10202-10361

HQ

62-9-33-323

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, NO

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/15/1962

3

CIP, MS GULF COAST, GAMBLING ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

09/29/1998

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32290085

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 771 U5C 7107 Note).

DA 5E36 (4dv.14=205167,

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad.-

FBI

Ce anach

Mr.

Date:

6/15/62

Mr. PRO

PLAIN TEXT

Transmit the following in

Mr. Taliyan

(Type in plain text or code)

Mr. Trotter

Tele. Room

Via

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

Miss Holmes

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Miss Gandy.

mis

TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

---

DIRECTOR, FBI (62-9-33)

SAC; NEW ORLEANS, (92-50) (P)

CRIMINAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

WEiKLY SUMMARY

CRIME CONDITIONS

MISSISSIPPI GULF COAST

On 6/14/62, NO 1178-C advised SA PERCY V. RICHARDSON

of the Gulfport, Mississippi, RA, that during the early evening

hours of 6/13/62 members of the Mississippi National Guard raided

three gambling establishments on the Mississippi Gulf Coast between

Gulfport and Biloxi.

The informant identified these three places

as the Gay Paree and the Key Club, located near Biloxi, and a

club known as The Spot in Mississippi City. Liquor and gambling

equipment valued at an estimated $25,000 were seized and destroyed

in these three raids.

Mr. TOM COOK, Reporter, The Daily Herald Newspaper,

Gulfport, advised SA RICHARDSON on 6/14/62, that JACK NOLA SIDNEY

DENNIS and JOHN ROMEO were arrested at the

Key

Club.

BERNARD

BLAIZE. was arrested at the Gay Paree and J. LAPORTER and ROGER

*P' ANGELO were arrested at The Spot.

The arrest warrants were

issued by Mississippi Supreme Court Justice HENRY ROGERS, Jackson.

With regard to the Key Club and the Gay Paree, this

office has conducted investigation concerning gambling activities

- BUREAU

2 - NEW ORLEANS

FGB: eah

(5)

62-9-33-323

JUN H18 1968

BUENCH

-REC-T.

EX-105

P2 086801 PAINE

1i da dises

Tell line iw.es

C. C. Wick

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

28 JUN 25 1962

DocId: 32290085 Page 2

Sent

Per f

---

