# docid-32289507

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Dáte:

6/11/201

AGENCY : FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10201-10283

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

92-2781-562

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, MM

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE :

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/08/1962

4

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

LST, REL, TRA, ACT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

10/13/1998

INDEFINITE

v9.1

NW 45966 DocId: 32289507 Page 1

29

---

## Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

;.==

FBI

Transmit the following in

Via

Date:

6/8/62

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2781)

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (92-88) (P)

RE:

SANTO TRAFFICANTE, JR., aka

(00: Tampa)

Re Tampa airtel to the Bureau dated 5/25/62.

WEEKLY AIRTEL SUMMARY

On 6/6/62, subject was observed to visit the

Eastern Airlines (EAL) Administration Building, Miami

International Airport (MEA), Miami, Fla.

determined subject attempted to contact

Investigation

Mr. JOSEPH SPOTO

PITISCI who is Superintendent of Engine Overhaul, EAL.

PITISCI advised on 6/7/62, that he 1s originally from

Tampa and his stap-mother's brother 1s PAUL LONGO, left

is married to subject's aunt.

PITISCI advised he

Tampa in 1931 and has been employed by EAL for 33 years.

He said he last saw subject 10 years ago at the funeral

of PITISCI's father. PITISCI advised he attended a

wedding in Tampa two weeks ago and told subject's brother,

FRANK TRAFFICANTE, who was also there, where he was located

in Miami. PITISCI advised after returning from a meeting

in the

afternoon of 6/6/62, his secretary told him he had

a caller named "SANTO"

lid not see the subject on that date.

, who apparently had not waited as he

2 = Bureau (AM)

- Tampa (92-1) (AM)

• - WFO CAM

- - MiamI JUNa 5 196

JLM: bam

23.4

(9)

Subject was observed to visit the office of Dr.

REC- 9

92-2781

-562

521105

Approved:

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 45966 DocId:32289507 Page 2

---

## Page 3

MM 92-88

I PSI (protect), advised on

5/23/62,

that he had observed subject's car at the

Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach, early on the morning

of 5/22/62.

He said on the night of 5/21/62, and

morning of 5/22/62, he had observed numerous known -

gamblers, (including (FNU) BRADY, who is frequently seen

with the

subject, JOE FISCHETTI, TONY RANDAZZO, HARRY

SNOW and MAX RAYMOND.

Tax Records, Hialeah, Fla. City Hall, reflect

FRANK LAGANO, 300 Tampa St., Tampa,

Fla., purchased the

oroperty at 657 West 34th St., Hialeah, from SALVATORE

G. SCALIA on 1/18/61.

City of Miami telephone Directory contains no

person named SALVATORE G. SCALIA.

JAMES DUCA interviewed on 5/24/62, in connection

with another investigation, advised he and the subject

are old friends having been raised together in Tampa, Fla.

He said the subject recently told him the FBI would never

put him in jail, but they were going to "worry him to

death"

Subject's car was observed in garage at his

residence, 523 N.E. 71st St., Miami, Fla., on 6/8/62.

LEADS:

TAMPA:

OTHER

AT TAMPA, FLA.:

Will attempt to locate SALVATORE G. SCALIA

and interview him re the sale of the property at 657 W.

34th St., Hialeah, to FRANK LAGANO.

Will contact sources in an attempt to determine

whether or not subject plans to leave country and what

his destination will be.

WASHINGTON FIELD:

AT WASHINGTON, D.C.:

30.10.13

NN 45966 DocId: 32289507 Page 3

---

## Page 4

MM 92-88

Will check passport office at State Department

to determine if a passport has recently been issued to

subject and his wife.

Description of subject is as

follows:

Born

Residence

Complexion

Height

Weight

Build

Hair

Eyes

11/15/14, at Tampa,

Florida

523 N.E. 71st St.,

Miami, Florida

Light and rough

5'10₴"

180

Medium

Light brown, scarce and gray

Hazel-blue, wears contact

lenses, and regular horn-

rimmed

and colored glasses.

MIAMI:

AT MIAMI, FLA.:

Will recontact

PSI, for more

information re alleged meeting of gamblers at Fontainebleau

Hotel on 5/21 and 22/62, and whether subject might

possibly have another car as the 1961 white Falcon he

normally uses was parked at MIA on morning of 5/22/62, when

states.the subject's car was parked at the Fontaine-

bleau Hotel.

Will continue investigation of subject's activities

in an attempt to determine if subject is planning to leave

the country.

+ -

+.

OTHER 4

4*

-

HW 45966 DocId: 32289507 Page 4

---

