# docid-32336895

## Page 1

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

6/2/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90135-10290

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-82298-117

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

DATE: 03/09/1961

PAGES:

9

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/25/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TRANSLATION FROM FRENCH, INC ENV

v9.1

DocId: 32336895

32

Page 1

---

## Page 2

•Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107

Hotel

DATE: 11-14-2017

CONEIDENTIAL

SECRET

34°

35.

PRANSLATION FROM FRINGE

(S)

PLOY

GUTTERREZ MENOLO

Do Organization.

D.R.T..

APPROPRIA

21222

(Concluded) ADVISDD

CLASSIFIED BY 1/122

EXEMPT FROM GOS CATEGORY 2,3

DATE OF DECLASSIFICATION NDEFINITE

621178 149

At the time of the effective constitution of the

"D.R.I.L." (October, 1959), there was no directorate:

This was set up, probably, around 15.X11-1954

The members of this directorate' are

unknown to the members of the "D.R. I.t."

Their docisions

are transmitted to the members of the "D.R.I.L." or to the

"executor" (for instance manifestoes) by means of

organizations called "Jurato."

Each "jurato" is designated by a letter (a.b.(...)

and fills distinct functions: internal, nilitary, political,

etc.,

organization.

The "jurato" is directed by one who agreed to

give his name and who, a priori, is not in Spain.

• " Ae heads of "

jurato's", the following are known:

- VELA - MOSQUEIRA,

- ROMARA - P IGNACIO,

head of the

"conmand,"

HENDORA, RAULy

of the

"jurato"

Foreign Attairs®

36.

the members of the "D.R.I.L.

There is also a "Special

Secretary" unicaown

to

He is in charge of the

00792 508

Classiled by poon

SEE MAGENT (JFK)

surveillance

of the

agents.

MoLOSURE

Deciassify on: DADR 1/30/84

105-

- 82498117

TRANSLATED BY:

EDWARD P.

ARBEZ: jo gen

spa

March 9, 1961

3/

CONEIDENTIAL SECRET

MICES

21/7801

DocId: 32336895

Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under "the John T. Kennedy Assassination Records Colfection Act "Of" 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017.

SECRET

37.

Shortly after it was set up, two tendencies

manifested themselves for unknown

reasons.

The one centered around General BAYO and

MONTREAL®

the other, around VELO.

The former two men

no longer play any active or responsible part in the

"D.R.I.L."

38.

39.:

40€

All the

sympathizing groups are not necessarily

bound to

join the

"D.R.I.L.*

they keep their autonomy

but some ou Their members have been screened and recruited.

The agents

entrusted with missions in Europe and

Africa have the title of "commando.**

This teim means that

those agents operate individually in the carrying out of

their missions

and that the mode of execution is left to

their own initiative.

It is to be noted that a commando holds no

leading function within the "D.R.I.L."

The special missions are entrusted according

: to

the competence of each one.

Thus "RAFAEL MARIA," an

accountant,

has Charge ot the distribution of monies in

Europe.

"PEPE" who is an idealist looks especially after

propaganda,, recruiting and

execution missions in Spain.

The commandoes may not be acquainted among

themselves; the Caracas "Centrale"

takes care of the

liaison in

the case of necessity

As regards recruiting, the "commando" normally

operates in this way:

When, after several contacts, an agent thinks that

he has found an earnest candidate, he reveals to the

without giving himself

nD.R.L.leg

away!

candidatesy its goals and lis mothods of work.

the existence of the

Fe invites

the candidate to get into touch with that organization which

may use him in the present

case, with the "Centrale,"

Apartado

3356 in Caracas.

- 22:

SECRET!

DocId: 32336895 Page 3

---

## Page 4

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 744 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

41.

42 .

Then, the commando

breaks off all contact with

the candidate and warns the "Centrale."

After the "Centrale" has referred the matter to the

special secretariat, it corresponds with the candidate,

which will

enable him to bring

out his personality, and his qualifications.

It is to be noted that the emphasis is on the eventual obligation

for the candidate to work in Spain.

After the special secretary"s approval, the

candidate is accopted and a mission is entrusted

to him.

Before this, the candidate has given an address where he can

be contacted.

however, it has happened

that the correspondence

between a candidate "JUANJ0:,

for instance,

and the "Centrale"

was written in code, at the request of the commando.

The following centers of the "D.R.I.L." have been

mentioned:

- Paris; under the cover of "MIRKO"

under that of VALAT YVON

- Spanish Morocco, under that of SOPRA, JOSE

- Switzerland, under that of XIZANA.

We were able to dotermine that a transit line

exists between France (Toulouse) and Spain (Barcelona).

That

line follows the following itinerary: Toulouse,

*Andorra,

Barcelona,

and is served by the "Andorra" taxis in Barcelona,

, between

14 and 15

0°clock

(9

and 10 PM), in

Darcelona, telephone 30.33.65.

In Toulouse itself, the "VALAI" group takes the

party in

charge.

- 23 -

SECRET

DocId: 32336895

Page 4

---

## Page 5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (14 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

43.

B.

Security Measures

Rocruiting.

"Organization.

We have treated of this in

However, we do not know if the information

supplied by a candidate, after his

contacts with a

"° commando"

, is, cross checked.. We must

sappose that the

commando takes every necessary care before inviting

candidate to got into touch with the "Centrale."

The contact in Narbonne, of

"PERE" with the untown party of Madrid (January

1960)9

had been

set in front of the Central Post Office.

unknown party had approached "PErE" with the following

"Is it a silk suit?" PIPE was to reply:

1% 1s dril *(Translator:

that is dral.

& heavy fabric

of linen or cotton with a diagonal weave.)

time of his first mission to Madrid

(February 1960), *JUANJO"

was to contact especially

" GUSTAVO"

whom he did not know and who was living in the

"Ronda" of Toledo, with his sister, near the Gate of the

same name.

To insure this contact, "PEPE" had shown to

"JUANJO a photo of "GUSTAVO"

and, he had olven him a

Venezuelan silver piece of currency.

"JUANJO" was to show

that coin

to "GuStAvO" and to address him thus:

" I am

coming from BFE:

As the time of his sabotage mission in

Barcolona

June,

1960), "JUANJO" was to meet a certain

*CHRISTINO! (sic)

who was to deliver to him the

necossary material. The meeting was set for June

22.

Om

the porch of the "Fension Tolede," on "Las Ramblas"

(Avenue).

If they were to fail to meot, two other substitude

meetings were foreseen for the following days.

* JUANJO" WaS

to appear every uneven hour opposite the R.T.I. building and

every

even hour opposite the Calderon Theater.

Contact was

finally established on June 24, at 15 o'clock (3 PM), before

the telephone building.

The password was,

for "CHRISTINO";

"Is

this

""JUANJOP", and fOr "JUANJO": "IS

this CHRISTINO P?

24 -

SECRET

DocId: 32336895

Page 5

---

## Page 6

Released under the Fohn F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Aöt of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET!

Coneraly, whon there is no message,

the commando

who is to get into

touch with a member of the "D.R.I.L." in

the one of the other city, must present himself every anever

hour opposite the Central

Post Office Building, and every

even hour before the Main E.R. Station.

Before leaving on their mission, the agents receive

a list of names and addresses to which they may go and ask

for aid in the case of necessity.

generally, they are

members of anti

Franco organizations or of sympathizers.

Thus, the members of the "D.R.I.L." have turned to

"La Populaire"

the Popular (organization) in Liege, where

they appeared as Spanish Republicans,

anxious to contael

refugee countrymen.

In its turn, "Ta

" Populaire" connects

them with Mrs.

PAFFEN who ensures their contact with

PENA, MAXIMO,

the Chairman of the A.R.U.b.

PENA was able toput up the parties in the house

of the DONENGUEZ Brothers who are members of the A.R.t.u.

This is the address where contact was established between

"RAFAEL WARIA," "PEPE" and "ELOY." That contact was covered

by the A.R.E.L.

3.

Correspondence: 1/ Clear (open).

45. (sic) A.. From the "Centrale""

to. the Commando:

The conmando, in principle, is free to move about

in Europe.

he must, therefore, inform the "Centrale" of

the name of the city where he will be for a definite period.

The "Centrale" corresponds in two ways:

It writes to the commanco,

sends the letter to the

Mate cost do cal her a beltery-

of the place where the commando is supposed to be.

The

commando calls for the mail in person.

- It sends the mail in the name of a sympathizer

in that city

but in this case, at uses a double envelope,

with the obligation for the sympathizer to forward the mail.

• 2,5 c

SECRET

DocId: 32336895 Page 6

---

## Page 7

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records ColTection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

46.

47.

Thus, the mail for "RAFARL MARIA was

sent in the

name of

MrS. HERNANDEZ (wife of DOMINGUEZ, JOSS),

General

Delivery, breseoux.

B: From the Commando to the Centrale:

The

mail is sent to Caracas,

Apartado 3365, either -

depending on its object and importance

• in

clear (open)

- in

terns with double meanings

- in code.

It must be noted that the "Centrale" looks after

the sonding of the mail in both directions, between the

commando and his family.

"2* in code (sic)

As the messages are not numbered, they begin

generally with a text in the clear,

follows up that of the correspondent (for example:

"PEPE"

says in a letter: "It is fine in the Sun" (sic;

capitalized in the original), the Centrale answers in

clear:

"I an glad that it is fine."

Then, follows the code message proper written only

in figures. It consists of a certain number of groups of

5 figures.

Dach group means a whole word. This word is to be

looked for in one of

the dictionaries placed

at the agent's

disposal, and

1s determined by the

number of the page and

the place the

word has

there.

For example:

the word "venir" (to come) may be

designated by the group 12537: 125 refers to

the page and

the decipherer will find "venirl in position 37.

26 -

SECRET

DocId: 32336895

Page 7

---

## Page 8

"Released under the John E. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

SECRET

To avoid some frequencies,

nulls (dummy letters)

are inserted: these are Indicated by a series of figures at

the end of the message, in the following way!

suppose the

mesgage to end with the series 7242819326586.

On the message which has been received, one strikes

off, starting from the beginning,

8th

after the 6th,

the 5th after

the

oth figure,

then

the

that 8th, etc. to

the end.

Suppose the following ciphered message:

52393114311

1272 1682631202 121311

42742042123186211436

7320614521543813238531132737 1207145 115 etc; it ends with

7242819326586:

The decipherer begins by striking off the 6th

letter (1), then the following 8th (4), then the following

5th (2), then the sixth (2)...•

As recognized by the agents, this method presents

difficulties in decoding; often unconquerable.

F. Einancing:

48.

1.'. The funds are established in Latin America:

= by voluntary contributiong,

• by contributions rosulting from intimidation: in

a known inotance, the collector was accompanied

by a boxer.

The lands are

transferred to their destination by

U,SoAo banks.

2, The "DLOY" mission in Belgium.

"ELOY" is rogarded as a

hero of the Cuban Revolution.

For this reason; FIDEL CASTRO would be inclined to entrust to

hin

a sam of 60,000,000 pesetas which were collected by the

Spaniards living in Cuba®

27 -

SECRET

DocId: 32336895

Page 8

---

## Page 9

Released under the John

F, Kennedy Assassination Recurds Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE :, 11-14-2017

CONFBENTIAL

SECRET:

49.

This sum might constitute a fighting fund for the

"D.R.I.L."

But before releasing that sum

FIDEL CASIRO is

said to have asked

"ELy" to get information in

Europe

about the "D.R.I.L." and its real efficiency as

a movement

capable of overthrowing the Franco Covernment.

"CLoy" thus is said to have come to Liege for the

purpose of meeting "PERT" who might have been in a position

to give him the intormation.

Besides, he had to consider

the possibility of a transter

fron. Cuba, via

the Belgim

banko, of the large anounts destined to the "D.R.I.l."

G. Political Tendencies.

The "D.R.I.L." claims

to be apolitical and that

1€ abstracts. fron

all religion and philosophic thought.

Anxious to proserve all its treedom of action, it does

not

wish to be involved with any political

party and especially

does not want to have anything to do with

the Communist

Party:

CONDENT

SECRET

DocId: 32336895

Page 9

---

