# docid-32989596

## Page 1

File #:

62-116395

Serial Scope:

1683-EBF

7H 54941

DocId: 32989596

Page 1

---

## Page 2

5-22-641

F81

Date:

8/21/67

he following in

(Tjpe in plaintext or code)

AIRIEL

(Priority) .

сті

TO :

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-958)

FROM:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (1-5728

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

TUNITED KLANS OF

: AMERICA, INC., NORTH CAROLINA)

agin

Re Charlotte airtel

to the Bureau 8/17/67.

@advised on 8/21/67 that the State meeting of

ART klansments purchant was held at stokesdale, N.C., on

8/20/67, with 70 or 75 klansmen present. This was an organi-

zational meeting and the majority of the time was spent with

election of officers. The group did not decide on a name

for their new organization.

+998789125755

Most of the time, was spent with the election of

the following officers:

•Grand Dragon

Klaliff

Klokara

Kluda

Kligrapp

Klabee

Klada

Klaxogo

RI!*

oi'

Klexter

Klokan

REC-2

Knight Hawk

112-5-

-Bureay: (RA)

-Charlo

ete

(2-257-281047050)

1683

68116395-1

1312240

Sent - eNNIASIRE AUG 23PLA

HIH

54941

saint toastin

DocTA: 32984396

Page 2

---

## Page 3

FBI.

Date:

8/22/67

ismit the following in

(Type in plaintezt or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (15759-85

FROM:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (1:57=281) (P)

SUBJECT: (COUNTErINTELLIGENcE pROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

(UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA, INC., NORTH CAROLINA)

ReBuAirtel to Charlotte dated 8/21/67.

It appears it would be extremely unlikely that a

new NIC letter can be approved and distributed in time to

reach the delegates to the National Klonvocation at Tuscaloosa,

Ala., 9/2-3/67.

Charlotte does not yet have the names of such delegates

from all N. C. Units and it is known that some units have not

yet selected delegates; they will do so during the current week

It will not be possible to send such a letter directly to the

delegates themselves, even if Charlotte should learn of their

identities, because

this is information that would not logically

be available on such

• short notice to the officials of NIC.

'The mailing list available to Charlotte, to which

past NIC letters have been sent, comprises leaders of local

units, and in some cases just the Post Office Box of the units.

For such a letter to come to the attention of the members,

including the delegates,

it must be mailed in time for the

Secretary or other official to receive the letter, and bring

it up at the next meeting of the klavern.

Most such meetings

are held in the early part of the week, and anything received

in their local mail later than August 28 will most probably

not come to their attention before the delegates leave on

September I for the Tuscaloosa National Klonvocation.

- Bureau (a57-998y (EnCil 2) (RAY, S

2 - Charlotte (157281)

RF

14 AUG ĐỞ 1067:

MAUT

!.!'

(5)

C. C. a Lictor?

Approved: -

TVI.

Sent

Per

Special Agent in Charge

54941 DocId: 32989596 Page Ben

made des bangs togen

bricate

---

## Page 4

smit the following in

FBI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

CE 157-281

After approval, a NIC letter has to be prepared in

Charlotte, sent in bulk to Atlanta, and remailed from there.

This mailing process will consume approximately three more

days, particularly in reaching some of the smaller communities

in Eastern North Carolina.

КАХААТААЛІС

Reference is made to Charlotte airtel of 8/21/67,

advising of the formation by

and Klansmen loyal to

him

of a new Klan organization in North Carolina.

This informant

with

the assistance of the Agent handling him, has drawn

up a

letter to be sent to all North Carolina UKA units, announcing

the resignation from UKA of

and the

formation of the new group, under the name of Confederate

Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, and inviting UKA members to join

it.

includes

attacks against j. RaJONES and the UKA for not electing

officers at the August State Meeting.

this letter from

It is considered most appropriate and timely that

go outsat this time.

Since it

includes attacks on UKA which are essentially the same as

could be included in a letter from NIC, it is not believed

destrable that a NIC letter be sent at this time, even if it

were possible to get the latter letter out in time.

Its is pointed out that the letter from

can-

be prepared,

addressed, and mailed from Greensboro'by the end

delegas wee the rational klonvocation, before theimleave for

'be available to' the membership, including

that meeting.

The Bureau is requested to furnish as soon as

possible authorization for mailing of the enclosed

letter and its enclosure.

9539379944

-2-

Approved:

Sent.

_M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 5

u't

Robert

Shelton

Imperial Wizard

United Klans of America, Inc.

• Tuscaloosa, Alabana

J. Robert Jones

GraNd DragON IDI

North Carolina

• United Klans of

America, inc.

-

Granite Quarry

North Carolina

sirs:

I am

submitting herewith my resignation Irom United

Klans oi America, Inc., Knights offthe Ku Klux Klan effective

August 21, 1967.

North Carolina.

election was

held and again the wishes

of the rank and file Kiansmen were ignored.

Therolore, I also relinquish my position os Amperial

Chaplain, Titan of Province Sis,

Chaplain of the Security

Guard, Lieutenant Colonel of the security Guard, and member

Of/KIA (Intelligence Agency).

I have devoted many years of faithful sérvice to the

Klan and it is with the greatest reluctance that I submit

resignation in ordes to assist in every yay

my

the organization

of & net, honest,

denocrate kian nose organizational plans

are now well under way.

Very truly yours,

1a lin.

phas

-12:0

HH 54941

DocId: 32989

---

## Page 6

Esteemed Kinsmen:

I am enclosing a

copy, o1 a letter that 1 directed to

Imperial Wizard Robert N. Shelton, United Klans of America, Inc.,

In this

I had

retrainga trom yaring this action until after the State Meeting

of UKi was hold at salissury on August 6, 1967.

I had hoped

R.. Jones.

letters,

for you had been told that elections for Grand Dragon

and othor State Ofiicers would be held in August, 1967, the

Imperial Wizard, conspiring with hir. Jones, notified you just

the week beiore the state meeting, that no election would be

neld until february.

How much longer are you good Klansmen

going to vait? When rebruary comes you will again be notified

are postponed,just wait. and see." "ill the

Nationa niouvocaiios in tuscaloosa te the sane band si riterack?

Those of you who wish

to affiliate with

horest Klanforganization where your wishes are given every

consideration and your right to express yourself guaranteed, join

with us in. Confederite Knights of the ku klux kean.

Any man tho

has paid his initiation fee into any Klan organization will be

velcomed into our organization without payment of any other

initiation Iee..

Come to our next statevide organizational meeting

which

w111 be held in 00 days.

Yours for a greater Klan!

Temporary Grand Dragon

....

MW 542447

DOE

---

## Page 7

UNITED STATES GOV MENI

Memorandum

Mr. W. C. Sullivan

* : C. D. Brennan

1;

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

(UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA, INC.,

NORTH CAROLINA)

1

- Mr. DeLoach

1

- hr. Bishop

DATE: August 24, 1967

1

-

his. ". C.

Sullivan

Mr.

C.

D.

Brennan

Klohr

Bishop

Casper an

Callohon L

Conrad.

Felt.

Gale

Rosen

Sullie

Tavei

Trots.

Tele. Foen.

Hoises -

Sandy -

this!'

PURPOSE:

To obtain approval for the mailing.of a letter

from

a top-level Charlotte informanty to all

klan mits in North Carolina announcing his resignation from

(UKA), and the formation

of a new group under the name of the Confederate Knights of

the Ku Klux flan, as weld as urging these klansmen to leave

the united klans-andjoin this-nev.organization.

BACKGROUND:

FBI

We have been conducting a hard-hitting aggressive

counterintelligence program against the UKA in the State of

North Carolina.

This particular group was chosen as the

focal point of our attack because North Carolina has the

largest concentration of klansmen in the United States.

It

is believed that it a death-dealing blow can be dealt to

the UKA in North Carolina, the entire Klan organization in

the United

States will collapse.

REC-60 157-7-5-171

a torer Imperial officer of the UkA

has been utilized extensively to cause dissension in Klan

ranks." Hehas been publicly criticizing dRones, the

Grand Dragon in North Carolina, as well 'as Robert Shelton,

the Imperial Wizard of the UKA.

This power struggle has

created tremendous dissension within Klan ranks. The infor-

mant yas ousted from his positionas

by Shelton; however, he continued to appeal to loyal members

of the United Klans

to right the wrongs being perpetrated on

the Klan by shelton and Jones.

The letter that the Charlotte DivistinAut ap 457

that the informant mail to all klan wits encloses-copy of

& Tetter he will send to Shelton submitting hie resignation

from the Uk He points out that he submitted his resigna-

Enchosure Iret 8-25-61

JGĐ: đSm

"(6)

CONTINUED - OVER

---

## Page 8

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan

Re:

Counterintelligence Program

will allow no actión to be taken to enable klansmen to

Wizard or, Grand Dragon Jones -but to leave the UkA and to

aftiliate

with him in an honest Klan organization known

as the Cónfederate Knights öf the Ku Klux Klan..

The Charlotte Division believes that the mailing

of the above letter would be most appropriate and timely

since it includes attacks on the KA and can be delivered

to the Klan delegates no will be attending the National

Konvocation ofthe United»Klans uring September 2-and-3;

1967.

The purpose of this Klonvocation (convention) is

for

the: election of Imperial Klan officers.

delegates may wish to bring up for discussion the points

set out in our informant letter. If this does occur, it

will continue the dissension in Klan ranks. Intherevent

the Informant is successful in obtaining a sizable follow

Ing in his new organization, we will be able to control the

activities of the organization through our informant and at

the appropriate time, disband the organization.

RECOMMENDATION:

That the attached airtel. to Charlotte be approved

authorizing the nailing of the letter byour-informant.

---

## Page 9

alrtol,

-

8/25/67

Hir.

DeLoach

hir.

Bishop

Hir.

W. C. Sullivan

hir.

C. D. Brennan

To:

• SAC, Charlotte (157-237)

RES

Trom:

Diréctor, Der"l

(1-57-9-8

COURTORINTOLLICENCE PROGRAM

INTENAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

(UNITED KLIS OF ALERICA, INC.,

NORTIL CAROLINA)

Rouralrtel dated 8/22/67:

Authority de granted for them ling e letter

proposed in colcrenced airtel.

Insure Bureau interests are protected and that

Iull security is given to this operation.

pried pytheinformant should not contain any identifying

data which may connect it with the Bureau.

Advise the bureau of any tangible results and be

alert for lollow up counterintelligence action.

(8)

NOTE:

see memorant c. Brennan to it. w. C. Sullivan

dated 8/24/67 captioned as above, prepared by JG:dsm.

MAILED 30

AUG 2 5 1967

COMM-EF Lisa

• ..

Дуая

.:C 37

MAIL ROOM

TELETYPE UNIT

V 00г54.23989596 Bane

---

## Page 10

THer: 90420091

E15s4

FBI

Date:

9/13/67

nit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (157-9-8

FROM:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (1-57-281) (P)

SUBJECT:

- COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

_DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

(UNITED KIANS OF AMERICA, INC., NORTH CAROLINA)

Re Charlotte airtel to Bureau dated 8/22/67, and

Buroau airtel to Charlotte dated 8/25/67.

Reierencea Charivite airiei recommended bureau

ReGEORGE-E. DORSETT to be-mailed to klan units in Norti

Carolina announcing his resignation, from the United Klans of

Ameraça, Inc., knights of the ku klus klan (uka), in which

letter was to be enclosed copies of DORSETT's resignation

letter to Imperial

Wizard ROBERT SHELTON and N. C. Grand

Dragon J. ROBERT JONES.

Copies

of these letters were forwarded to the

Bureau in referenced Charlotte communication and by referenced

Bureau communication, approval was granted for the forwarding

of such letters.

Bistiop

The letter

as approved, by the Bureau, was prepared/

and-forwarded.over-DORSETTSsignature.and-mailedout.on

Charlotte is remaining alert for any appropriate

follow-up counterintelligence action and is being alert to

observe any tangible results from the mairing of this letter.

As of this time, sufficient number of informants have not

obtained information concerning the letters-received upon

which any evaluation can be made at the present time.

OKO

Bureau (9-5793) (RN) REC-58 /

Charlotte (157-287)

(5)

ManUniT

EX 1U!

SO SEP'. $4.1915?

dr.,

Approved:

...

117651947,

Sent -

_ M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

DooId: 32989596

---

## Page 11

it the following in

F B'I

Date:

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priority)

'CE 157-281

The Bureau will be advised of any tangible results

and recommendations will be made for any appropriate follow-

up counterintelligence action that appears feasible.

REVEL.

to 23 li

F Bl

-2.

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent -

—M Per

---

## Page 12

•36 (Ror

5-22-581

insmit the following in

AIRTEL

FBI

Date: 9/12/67

(Type in plaintext or code)

(Priorisy)

TO.:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM:

SAC, CHATLOTTE (5783) Co

COUNTER INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

RM (KLAN)

54941

As' the Bureau has been previously advised, on

8/20/67

waselected Grand Drazon of the Confederate

Knights of the ku kiux kiaù (curry, a nay klan organization

organized that date.

frOM UKA.

Immediately thereafter, several klaverrs of UKA

pledged support of DORSuIT and returned their charters to UKA.

DORSETT, during the intervening period,.

has resisted efforts

on the part of the dissident members and klaverns to form

a separate organization. It was the desire of this office

that

continue to capitalize on the dissention

between DeSty and ". RadiONeS, Grand Dragon of UKA in N. C.,

without having to form a separate organization. However,

those former UKA members who followed tORSarY were adamanti a

in their intentions to form another organization,

andaln

order to putathe Bureau in-the best-position possible

became Grand Dragon of this new group.

At the present time, there are four men's klaverns

and two women's auxiliaries in CKKI,

jall former. units of UKA.

The total estimated membsrship of these six units is 250.

There are five informants in these six undts, who provide

adequate coverage at the present time REC 40 15-2-5-5512946

has been emphatically instructed that his.

personal efforts and those of the CKKKX are to be directed..'"

(3) - Bureau (RM)

6

- Charlotte

(26257-282) (1 25-5283) 11455920956

(710-170-64) (1=)70-90A)

Cry mab

(9)

iC. C. r Bistop

Ken kirit

F B

Dones

INST

"s4.

DocId: 32989596

Page

12

2022193.

---

## Page 13

4-CE-157-281

toward disruption of UKA and that recruiting should be

limited to present membership of UKA rather than efforts

being made to recruit

# Klan members.

Several former

UKA members who had dropped out previously have become

reactivated in CKKKK; however,

has been instructed

to discourage and prevent this from occurring on a large

scale.

It is believed that through the formation of a

separate

Klan organization it will be possible to continue

attacks on FpONES individually and on UKA policies.

It is believed that CYXKK can be used as an effective

counterintelligence measure against UKA. It is the intention

of this. office to do so.

has advised that in its formative.

stages there will be expenses incurred by CKKKK, such

as

printing of iorans, membership cards, securing of a post

office box, preparation of miscellaneous literature, etc.

While it would appear

undesirable for this office to pay

all of

the expenses incurred ty'

- insetting in

this new organization, it appears desirable that at least

a portion of the expenses be borne by the Bureau because of

the counterintelligence value of the organization. If the

Bureau approves, certain expenses incurred by

in

connection with

the launching of this new Klan group will

be paid by the Charlotte Office.

The Bureau will

be kept advised of developments

with regard to the new

Klạn group and to tee

counterintelligence potential..

In addition to the above, the following

counterintelligence measure is being considered:

As the Bureau has been advised previously,

has been instrumental incholding a series

meetings attended by certain elected state officers of

UKA and Titans.

These meetings were held prior to the

National Klonvocation, which was held on 9/2-3/67 at

Tuscaloosa, Ala. J.*R, JONES became aware of these

meetings, their purpose and the names of those who were

present.

The purpose of the meetings was to discuss

ways and means of removing JONES as Grand Dragon and

bringing about changes in the administration of UKA in

North Carolina.

135.

---

## Page 14

' CE"157-281

To date, the meetings have resulted

in no

benefits insofar as the Bureau is concerned.

However,

they have produced discontent among the leaders of UKA

in North Carolina and have formed the basis for future

action.

• As a result of personal indiscretion, HENRY

REYNOEDS, Grand Klexter, has been removed from

his state

office.

REYNOLDS was one of those in attendance at this

series

of meetings by dissident members.

feels that poNes will take every opportunity to

remove from office or banish the others who were in

attendance at these meetings. These meetings have been

attended by

- and

Од 9/6/67,

.. indicated that he felt it

would be most effective if he publicly denounced JR.

JONES: and the Klan prior to the time JONES could bring

charges against him and have him banished. He felt he

would receive constaerable support From Uther Siate

leaders and from many of the rank and file members.

jowever, before taking süch action, he desired to discuss

this matter.withhisboss.southern_FOodS.InC:,

Greensboro, Not.

On 9/9/67,

advised he had discussed

this matter with.his-boss--whowas-very much opposed-to

Informant taking, this action.

In the fall of 1965 and

received considerable publicity

of business for the informantand for the company he

company•

In view of take the action

feels that in good

in publicly criticizing JONES and the uKA.

He has advised

he will remain in the UKA but will continue to agitate

against the-administration of JR. JONES and will

continue to attempt to disrupt the Klan.

RECESEE FROM

3

1A5. 271915

§BI

2WEt2- DР0T0-32989596

Page 14

---

## Page 15

CE-157-281

Informant does not feel it would effective for

him to join CKKKK but does propose that aseparate

organizationreta.Klan..groupsbewsetup. Informant has

explained that he does

not feel a large number of Klan

members can be induced to leave the Klan unless they are

offered another organization which they can join.

in mind the formation a group similar to acitizens

councial..

has scheduled a meeting of officials

Of UKA.On 91/67:Atthis meeting, herintends-to propose

the formation of a separate organization which will not be

a secret group such as the Klan

but will be open to the

He feels that individuals in North Carolina have

joined the Klan inasmuch as there is no other organization

Informant will at the meeting on 9/13/67 determine

whether there ishany support of such a group among those

present.

It so, he, intends to allow one of the ather

individuals present to lead such a group in order to prevent

his being banished from the ukA at this time.

nel: 0-55725

It is believed that the informant's proposal has

merit as a

counterintelligence measure.

The Bureau will be

advised of results of the 9/17/67 meeting and of future plans.

•.

---

## Page 16

9/25/67

airtol

1967

COMM • FBI

ach

er

hon

ad

100

er

Hoom -

To:

SAC, Charlotte (157-281)

From: • Director, SEc-477-9-8) -0/2

• COUNTERINTELLIGINCE PROGRAM

- DISCUUTION OF HATE GROUPS

INTECIAL SECUPITY

RACIAL. MATTERS (KLAN)

ReCLairtel 9/12/67.

The Bureau will not, under any circunstances,

approve the paying, by your offico, of all expenses in

cunioction with the formation of the new Klan organization

known as the Contederate Knights of the ku klux kian (Cuurs)

The Bureau will, however, approve justifiable

personal expenses incurred by the informant in this regard.

The Bureau has no objection to

atiempt-

ing to form a group similar to reitizans council.

You are

Instructed, hovever, to insure that this informant does not

attempt to form another klan group.

Be certain to keep the Bureau currently advisga in

regard to the counterintelligonce efforts of both

and

(4)

V

NOTE:

vas-recentlybanished.from the United

Klans of America, Inc., Knights of the Ku Klus Klan (UKA), •

due to his sincere opposition to fRistones, Grand Dragon of

the UKA in Noith Carolina.

This informant has been icsponsi

ble for consideravia counterintelligence success recently

achieved by our Charlotie Office.

on 8/20/57 was

elected Grand Dragon of the Cilk, a new klan organization

organized on that date. Charlotte has advised that expenses

will be incurred by the CKKK in its formative stages and re~

quested that at:least a portion of the expenses be borne by

Bureau because of the counterintelligence value of this'"

new Klan organization.

Tie want to insure that Charlotte

understands we will approve paynent only for the personal

expenses incurred by

in regard to the Cia.

21

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TIO

MAIL HOOK

HH 54941

DocId: 32989596

Page

---

## Page 17

Airtel to Charlotte

Counterintelligence Program

157-9=8,

NOTE CONTINUED:

Charlotte also advisch that

due to his personal

situation, vill be unable to join the Cilax but this informant

has proposed that a separate organization,-not a klan group,

be-sct.upThis.informant.desires-to.form.agroup-sinilar

"todCitizenscouncil wich he will utilize to continue our

counterintelligence offensive against the Klan in North. Carolina

and, in particular, against aprones, Grand Dragon of the

UKA in North Carolina.

We have no objection

to an organiza-

tionsuch25dcitazenscouncilbeing formed but we want to

Insure that this informant doesnot attempt to form another

Klan group.

No 3185

NN 54041ĐeeId:32989596

Page 17-

9901IL

---

## Page 18

Transmit the following in .

Via.

— AIRTEL

F.BI

Date:

(Type in plaintext or codel

REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority)

2-3-66

TO :,

DIRECTOR, F'BI (1573707

FROM:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (157 23:0)

UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA, INC., KNIGHTS OF THE KU KLUX KLAN

RACIAL HATTERS (KLAN)

The 1-3-66, issue of the "Charlotte News," a daily

Charlotte, N. C., newspaper, contained an A.P. release datelinca!

Kaleigh, N. Co, which reflects that N. C. GovernOr DAN MOORE iS

conscious: of reports

that his State leads the nation in Ku Klux

ing to expose klan membership lists.

The article reflects that Governor MOORE has confirmed

reports of the existence of the anti-klan committee and that the

committee chairman is MALCOL1 SEAWELL, Chairman of the N. C. St-

ate Board of

Elections, and a former State Attorney General.

The article quoted SEAlELLas stating that the klan had better

.not initiate any violence. "or they have had it" in N. C.

Further, SEAVELL quoted as stating that the State is through

playing games with the klan and that the conmittee intends to

first provent violence and second to see that every resouice

will be used in tracking down and bringing to justice persons

(responsible for violence in N. C. Public exposure of klan.

membership lists kept socret by klan officials will be one of.

the weapons the anti-klan committee will use.

The article further disclosed that membership of the

conmittee indicates that it will coordinate the activities of

the N. C. State Bureau of Investigation, the N.

C. Highway

i - Burcau (2 + 157-370): (2-257-9-87-1244

2 - Birmingham (105-722) (Ri1)

....

4.- Charlotte (2 +-757-230) 12)

1157-7811

JAN

-10

1o

$ 1620

• Os

Site

Approved:

lian

Sent

_ M

Special Agent in Charge

---

## Page 19

it the lollowing in

AIRTEL

F81

Date:

lippe in plannered or codel

REGISTERED MAIL

(t'riorit))

1-3-66

CElin 157230

Patrol, the N. C. State Revenue Office, and the N. C. State

Attorney General's Office. Namod to the committee in addition

to SEAWELL aLC WALTER E. ANDERSON,. Director, State Bureau of

Investigation; A. PILSON GODYIN, Motor Vehicles Commissioner;

I. L. CLAYTON, Conmissioner of Revenue; WADE BRUTO, State •

Attorney General; and ED RANKIN, Director of Administration.

For: the information of the Bureau, it is noted that

N. Co officials, including Governor MOORE

and WALTER ANDERSON,

mentioned above, have denied reports from

various sources such

as HUA as to the real strength of the United Klans in N. C.,:

and on occasions both ANDERSOil and CoV. MOORE have attempted to

indicate that the United Klans has

less than 1,000 members in

N. Co Surveys by Charlotte Office based on past estimates of

informants and othor sources have dotermined that there are

approximately 5,000 members in N. C.

itin

In connection with membership figures. above, Charlotte

is considering the possible effectiveness in connection with

counterintelligence program of furnishing State of N. C. with

information as to membership and possibly other information

regarding location of Klaveris, etc., that would assist above

referred to anti-klan comnittee in connection with its proposed

program. This matter is being given further study by Charlotto

and it is anticipated that recommondation will be made in this

connection in the near future. No action, of course, willie:

taken or information furnished to State authorities without

prior "urcau appioval.

2

Approved:

' Sent

.N.

Per

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 19

---

## Page 20

: Memorandum

1

Hr'.

DeLorch

Wick

Millan

"Irons

TO .

'i' I. C. Sullivan'

DATE: 1/7/66

FROM : I. J. Baumgardner:

376

SUBJECT:

(.)

UNITED KLANS OF AMERICA, INC.,

KNIGIT'S OF THE KU KLUX KLAN

RACIAY MATTERS (KLAN)

Mr.

Sullivan

Baungardnei

but 123 Posacke

di Wilyan

i meMartin

*:1

elle 19c.

Theyc have been nationwide news r'oports that

Governor Dan: Hoore of North Carolina has organizod an anti-Klan

committcc. 'The fornation of this committee follows icports that

the North Carolina Klan leads the nation in Ku Klux Klan' member

ship:

The Charlotte Division has recently reported that

• as

part si the conmittee's campaign to halt klan growth in the

State of North Carolina, the commitice formed by Moore will

publish Klan menbcrship

lists which are usually secret.

The menbers of the North Carolina anti-Klan committee

are Malcolm Scawcll,

•Chairman of the State Board of Elcctions;

Walter F:

Anderson, Director, State Bureau of Investigation;

1. Pilson: Godwin, Commissioner _o-liotor Yehicles; I. I. Clayton,

Connissioner of Revenue; Wade, Bruton, State Attorney General;

and id Rankin, Director of Administration.

Governor Moore has, on occasion,

announced the Klan.

membership in North Carolina is less than

1,000 members.

The

Charlotte Office estimates North Carolina Klan membershi? to be

approximately 6,000.

REC-81-

404

In October, 1965, the c25.109

ic Office advised that

Informants had reported that I. R. Jonesyas contacteddy

North Carolina United Klans of Ancrica,

Governor hoore in an effort to obtain ilan support for a

road bond issue in North Crrolina.

The Klan voted against

Governor Hoore's wishes and actively campaigned in an eftart

to defeat the road bond issue.

In JAN 1: 1985

The Charlotto Offic is considcring,

as a countcrintolli

sence measure, the possibility of providing Governor Hoorc's

anti-klan committee with information as to Klan membership and the

location of Klan klaveris.

Enclosure -

i:;:

i (8)

CONTINUED - OVER

iN 54941 DoCId: 32989596 'Page 20

---

## Page 21

Ncmorandun to Mi. W. C. Sullivan

RE:

UNITED KLANS OF

AMERICA, INC.,

KNIGITS OF CHE KO KLUX WLAN

OBSERVATIONS:

Due to the fact that Governor Moore, on previous

occasions, has sought and has

bech refused the political support

of the north Carolina klans, it is cntirely possible that the

anti-klan committoo is a purely politionl

offort on the part of

the hoore naministiation to lessen political resistance to his

administration. ly providing information to the loith Carolina

anti-llan conmittee, the Bureau may be unwittingly dragged into

political squabbles

wetween the United Klans of incrica and the

North Carolina Governor.

For complo, in a recent United Press International

release,

Robert ones, Grand Dragon oi korch Carolines vas

icported to have said "Governoi looic is an idiot.

RECOMMENDATION:

Attached for appioval is an airtcl to

the Charlotte

osfice directing them not to furnish any infornation to the

Moore anti-klan conmittee, as a counterintolligence measure,

and instructing them to piomptly advise the bureau if the

committee should request any intornation fion them.

Page. 21 ..

---

## Page 22

]

Airtel

Ift'.

hix.

DoLoach

Mick

Sullivan

Laurgardner

SAC, CharlottOs (167-230)

Fron:

Director,

º4.7.5.5

UNITED ILATE OF MCRICA, INC.,

INCIS C IN ME IN LIT

RACIAL HAFILES (KLAN)

Rechairtcl dated 1/3/56.

The burch doos not docito jurther concidcration ba

ion chung lu mom thirderoo in knih Carolina to the

reCOntly sornod lorth Carolina anti-hian commitieo,

Should the connlitoe ni any tiue roqueat any

Information sion you, you should promptly dvice the juroan of

the nacure ci. the roquest.

In adicion, loon the Bireau advised

O the nov rOlenses and prOgiesT of Covernor Mooro's anti-Klan

cormitzco.

(20)

NO'FE:

See memorandun Baungardner to Sullivan dated 1/7/60,

captioned as above, prepared bychinterb:

11 20M

leon

HALLD 10

81955

COMMUFOI

bli chan

b:801

8:5

esen

blindam

88801.

8u18ng

5.35

HH

54941

DocId: 32989596

Page 22

---

## Page 23

SiC, Sharlotte' (157=281)

8/2/65

Directes,

(25755587- 4

Ex 110

CCUNTCRONOTLLIORICE FROGRA

1-Hreimton

1 - fleurina

DISPUTION Of iMTE GROUPS

RoCHIc: 7/10/00 and Duairicl 7/23/06 captioned •

"Onitod Klage of Anerica, inc., Racial

katters."

Your quartorly countorintollironae lotter vi-

1/19/co ip ou exesilent enmple of the coordination of

your conicriitolligonce eiforts vith your positive

Klan investigations.

*In view of the currani controvcrsy in the State

of north Carolin regarding, in part, the United Klars

hackled,

ine., Charick, you should cloooly follow this

antico mo Go chid mamo Chmo anare that the istrotion.

set forth in rohairiel so iully coarlied with.

•Your continued and profcired ationtion to the

countcrintolligonce activiiics is approciated.

NOTE:

14041

i noth

lahon

The Charlotte Office

has submitiod a 13-pagc®

quartcrly counicrinü.llgonce letter which is one of the finest

yet rccrived undoi

this program.

The letier concerns the

handling of comtorintclligence proposals and positive

intelligence activitics authorized by the Countcrintclligence

Unit and the Klan Unit.

It is bolored that the Burcau's

intorost in the Charlotte situation has stinulated an

excellent counterintelligence approach to the klan activity

in Morth Carolina. Charlotte roninded to follow closcly

the development concerning the UKA Chartor in Worth Carolina,

however,

to comply with prior Burcan instructions to avoid

ilvolvement with the nowly-formed controversial statc cormittee

in Norih Carolina investigating the Klin.

Nilajgamn

(5)

56 AUG 11 1500

TANLEG 1S

MUC 1 1560

CP

MAHI. HOOKL

11:8.S 1871. 11311 L.J

HH 54941

. DocId: 32989596

Page 23

---

## Page 24

DINECTOR, FBI (75-g

:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (157 281)

SUNJECT: COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAI!

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUDTION OF INTE GROUPS

DATE:

1/19/66-

lien

Re Charlotte letter,

, 4/18/66.

This communication sets forth

the status of

captioned matter in the Charlotte Division as of 7/15/66.

.I. POTENTIAL COUNTERINTELLIGEICE ACTION

Previously, in Charlotte letters, 1/26/6G and

1/18/66, the Bureau was advised that consideration was

being given to possible disruptive action in conncction

with the Widows Benevolent Fund, an Insurance program of

the Klan which vas put into effect 2k1/66.

To date, information has been received that

approximately seven Klansmen who vere members of this

Fund have died and in all instances the beneficiaries

have been paid $1, 000 by JoNES.

Recently, deletones,

: Grand Dragon, has sent out lettors to all Klansmen in

which it vas

indicated that payments into the Fund were

that

not being made promptly and in the event payments were

not made by members of the Fund the beneficiaries could

not be paid off.

It is believed that in the future JONES VIlI

encounter financial problems in connection with this Fund

when he is called upon to pay a beneficiary $1, 000 and

does not have funds -to cover this amount.

Also, it is

REG. 52

1...

Bureau (RM)

Charlotte

82, JUL 21 1206

CrV: ho

(1)

E110.

Buy 1.5 during Bands Agelesty on the Perpoll Surings dn

---

## Page 25

C175738}

anticipated theie will be problems which arise in

connection with whether a menber of the fund vas paid

up ait.

the

time of his doath.

It is believed that. should

JoNes renore in paying the beneficiary for any rcason

that this

will be an excellent basis for counterintelligence

action.

When information of this nature is received

indicating that Jones is not living up to his obligations;

the Charlotte Office will recomnond action to be taken.

The Bureau 1s fully avare of the potential

- counterintelligence action being undertaken by the

Charlotte Office with regard to

the removal of topones

as Grand Dragon. This objective has not been achieved to

date but efforts are continuing.. Also, in this regard,:

offorts are being made to cause

the arrost of golds on

local chargos of

ris or similar charge in connection with

his illicit relationship with a girl friend in Raleigh,

N. C.

These progians vill be discussed more fully in the

• next section of this letter. .

II. PENDING COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION

A. UKA Charter

By letter dated 4/8/66, the Bureau instructed

that Charlotte through established sources determine the

present status of cflorts being nade by the State o1 liorth

Carolina to examine the legality of UKA operations. Tic

Bureau instructed that counterintelligence proposals be

subnitted to insure that the State's examination of the

UKA status will be a continued topic in news media in this

territory.

By airtol' dated 5/19/66, the Bureau was advised

of developments in connection with action by the State of

Nortu Carolina relative to the Klan Charter. It vas

2

NH 54941 DöCIA: 32989596 Page 25

wonder Fa.

---

## Page 26

C4357-287

rocommended that contact, be

maintained with

for the purpose of kooping abicast of stite action in.

this regard.

This approval was granted by the Bureau by

airtel dated 6/7/66.

Information concerning the most recent decision

by the State with regaid to revocation of the. Klan Charter

appeared in the 7/1/66 issue of the "Charlotte Observey"

a daily nerspaper published at Charlotte, N.C. This

article revealed that the State Law and Order Committee

had declined to recommond that the klan Charter be revoked.

The Committoe's action was based on a memorandum from the

Doputy Attorney General in which it was stated tiat it.

could not be found where the klan had been dectared unlawful.

North Carolina Governor DAN K. NOORE, who heads the Committee,

expressed continued interest in the altivities of individual

Klan menbers.

The Charlotte Office is continuing to follow

advised of

B. Dissemination of Litcrature

1. Granite Quarry Chain Letters

By letter dated 3/11/66, the Bureau instructed

Charlotte to prepare and mail 20 copies of a chain lettei

reflecting unfavorably on the military service of mR

JONES.

These letters

were prepared in accordance with

Burcau instructions.

Some were nailed from North Carolina,

some from the Richmond territory and some from the Columbia

territory.

The purpose of having these letters mailed

from Virginia and South Carolina was to create animosity

betwcen the Grand Dragons of those states and JONeS.

Information had been rcceived previously that BoB-kOnNEGaY,

,?..

---

## Page 27

66 757-231

Grand Dragon of Virginia, had aspirations of becoming

Grand Dragon of North Carolina, and information had been

received that BoBasGoshts, Grand Dragon of South Carolina,

had been recruiting members in North Carolina. This

mailing was for

the purpose of fuither driving a redge

between Klan loadcis:

On 1/13/66,

47/8/66-J0VE5

advised that on

was in

possession of one of these letters

and according

to Jois, neither he nor his wite slept the

night they learned of the letter because of concern as

to the identity of the writer.

JoNEs indicated that he

thought sawlks.thezvadow.@fGRHDyHAS, was the author.

On 19466goes indicatod tomthe holman he had riven

thought to the possibility that BoB KONNeGy GEORGE

-DORsETs vere responsihle but had narrowed the choice

to Jit maks. He said he had determined that GrADYARS:

-death.

. On 5/5/66,

stated he had heard that

there was a letter attacking Jonesawhich had been circulated.

It was reported to thishtabaht that raroNt eriFOrD

(former Exalted Cyclops of the Ormondsville Klavern who

was expelled from the Klan by dONbS) reportedly was

responsible for the letter.

all furnished information concerning these

letters.

These informants furnished various comments of

recipients. The majority of the informants indicated that

the letters had upset Joles

who felt that this was an

attempt by some

enemy to malic trouble foi him.

Insofar

as it is knovn,

the chain letter was not reproduced by

any of the recipients.

4

1111

---

## Page 28

1831

2:

Mational Committce fOr Domestic

Tranguility (NCDT) letters

Charlotte

By letter dated 4/20/66, the Bureau furnished

20. copies of

a newsletier of NCDT attacking Klan

policy with instructions that

these be mailed to Klan

nembers who might de receptive.

These norsletters were

mailed by Charlotte on 1/27/66. Rather than send them to

20 individuals, it was felt that these letters would be

mare effective

and recoive wider distribution if mailed

to Klaverns.

The letters vere mailed to 20 Klaverns

throughout the state using the cover name of

the Klavern.

By lotter dated 5/27/66, the Bureau furnished

Charloite 50 copies of an NCDI newsletter which vere mailod

.01. 6/2/06 to 50 Klaverns using the cover name of the klavern:

• On 5/16/66,

advised that geNes

staied that some letters vere being mailed out of Charlotte

which had sono commiiice's name' on them.

gonus" said he

would lilie to see if it could be determined who was

putting these letters out in Gilarlotte.

and

reported on the

receipt of these lettors by klaverns:

advised that at a Province i1

mecting ai Plynouth; r. C., on 6/12/66 a discussion was

held concerning the NCDI letters and.other literature

being received by Klaverns and it was felt that this

liternture was possibly coning from the SBI, the FbI, or

MALCOLM SEAVELL sho, until recently, was head of the

Governor's. Law aud Order Committee.

No additional information has bêen received

concerning these newsletters or the results which may have

been achieved by their distribution.

1.

5

HW 54941 DooId: 32989596

Page 28

---

## Page 29

11157-281

• Postal Cards

By airtel dated 1/28/66, the Bureau furnished

Charlotte a supply of thice dificront Postal Cards to be

mailed to luoin Klansmen.

on 5/18-19/66, approximately 500 of the cards

bearing the soids "Klansman trying to hide your identity

behind your sheet? You received this - soncone knows who

you aro!" wore sent to various resident Agencies to be

mailed to klansmon in accordance with Bureau instructions.

On 5/21/66,

advised that the

-recipient of one of these cards abilaunt old,

made the statement that he was going to work harder than

eVer

i on the than a

before for the klan as a result of receiving this card.

0n 5/31/68,

reported on the receipt

of these cards by Klansmen and stated it has been

speculated that they may have been distributed by MALCOl

SEAYELL.

According to this source, dOMESyas planning to

have 10,000 cards as nearly identical as possible printed

and mailed at random to non-klansmen throughout the state

It was also Icported that the receipt of these

cards by members of the Mount Holly Klavern was not

disturbing and those who received the cards vere laughing

and joking about then and kidding other members as to when

they could expect their cards.

One member of the hount Holly Klavern, who had

been inactire, upon receipt of the card returned to Klavern

meetings and paid up back dues and has again bocone active.

on 6/20/66, approximately 650 Postal Cards

showing Klansmen at a bar and raising the question as to

which klan leader is sponding Klan money tonight were

mailed to inch-Klansmen throughout the state.

1N 54941 D001d:32989596 Page 29

---

## Page 30

@1157 2237

The reccipt of these cards was discussed at a

meeting of the Plymouth Klavern on 6/23/66, according to

Those present felt that MALCOL SEAWELL

was possibly responsible and were of the opinion that

since SEAlELI, has resigned as Chairman of the Law and Order

• Committec that the cards will no longer be mailed.

4.:

Satirical Cartoon of pooNS

By letter dated 5/17/00, the Bureau furnished

Charlotte 100 cartoons concerning a PdorES which were

mailed fron Kinston, 8. C., on 5/23/66 to 100 Exalted Cyclopses

throughout the state.

Kinston

was chosch as the mailing

site inasnuch as JAleS "CArlISil" CorE lives in linston and

operates a

printing shop there.

The cartoon had a catfish

in the lover righthand corner

which is symbolic of COLE.

all reported on the receipt by various

Klansmen of these cartoons.

Sonc of the recipients felt

that JAMES COLE could be responsible, however, others

thought that the cartoons wereimailed to nake it appear

that COLE vas responsible. COLE was contrcted by a Klan

official concerning this matter and denied having done so.

statod that the Klansmen were not

upset about the leaflet but that it did emphasize the faults

of Japones. Informant felt that the distribution of

these

leaflets

has kept Klanspeople tulking about

"Owesa

Faults and therefore had a weakening effect on the klan in

North Carolina.

on 6/10/66,

advised it is believed by

Klanspeople that the

cartoons Klan members are receiving

are being mailed by BOB KORkEGAY or by someone at his direction.

No additional pertinent information concerning the

receipt of these cartoons or the resulis have boch received.

8.

Hi 34911 DotTi. 72989596

Page •30_

---

## Page 31

26.1

5. Klan Joke Book

By letter dated 5/20/66, the Bureau instructed

Richmond Office to mil to 59 Klansmen in North Carolina,

including J. R. JONES, a copy oi a joke book. This vas

done in order to cicate the impression that BOB KORNEGAY.

was responsible:

By letter dated 5/21/66, the Richmond Offico,

was furnished the

names of 59. Klansmen, and joke books

were mailed from Emporia, Va:, on 5/28/66.

on 6/2/60,

stated he believed

that this

booklet vas prepared by the ADL oi the

•FBI.

Informant said he does not believe this literature rould

have any eficot on Klansmen.

On 6/3/66, at a public rally at Goldsboro, i. C.,

Mes BLE ones, wife of Grand Dragon JONES,

stated

that the SBI and rbl would send anyone attending a

• Klan

rally jokes and cartoons which were not in the least bit

funny to hei.

No other information concerning the joke books

or their effect on the recipients has bech received.

c..

Action to Remove Jeep JONES as

Grand Dragon

Through the efforts of

dissident group of Klan leaders met at Durham, N. C., on

3/27/06 for the purpose of airing griovances against

Approximately 100 top Klansmen in the State

of North Carolina were present. It ras decided that the

State Board of UKA would meet on 1/10/66 to discuss this

matter further.

Atthe-meeting on 1/10/66, at Biscoe, N..C:,

seven of the officins further discussed the complaints

against JONES: The only decision reached was that another

8

IN 51941,DocId-32989596

---

## Page 32

C1457281

Board meeting should he called in the near future for

the purpose of making reforms and changes in policy.

On 5/1/65, a Stato Board moeting was hold at

Raleigh, N. C., at which ONES was prescht. During the

•meeting

the grievances were discussed, and JONES agreed

• to some of tho demands made and promised to take care of

many of the other grievances reported to bim. Those

present were pacified and placated.

By airtel dated 1 22/05,. the Burcau instructed

that plans be made to remove tomas. as Grand Dragon and to *

cause the UKA in korth Carolina to breal with the National

UKA.

In response, on 5/5/66, the Charlotte Office

submitted an airtel to the Bureau which included

recommendations for the folloving:

(1) tarantomants spoak.out against JONES

in order to undermine his authority and

cause dissension;

(2)

Have Informants urge the various Klaverns

to raise monthly ques or to assess a

special levy for the benofit of JONES

which would cause the membership to become

disillusioned;

(3)

(1)

(5)

Have-topenhamants makc the surrestlons

to JONES regarding additional assessments

which would disillusion the nembership;

Mail an anonymous Ictter to BOB SHELTON,

Imperial Wizard, indicating that JoNes was

attempting to become Imperial Wizard; and

To pursue the illicit relationship between

JoNes and a firl friend in Raleigh with a

view towaid causing his arrest..

•32

---

## Page 33

V: I

These-recommendations were approved by the

Burcau on-5/13/66.

Tha disruptive tactics obformei

Klan leaders, in May, i966,

continued to be critical. of JONES, and on 6/5/66 another

State Board meeting was held at lenderson, N. C. This

meeting vas attcnocd by 15 of the officials who expressed

dissatisfaction with Jotts and BOB KORMEGAY, Grand Dragon

of virginia.

On 6/9/66, the results of the meeting on 6/5/66

were discussed with bOB-SHElton by menbers of the State

Board. SHBEFoN advised that another State Board meeting

would be called within tro to four wcelis which rould be

attended by him and by fronts.

He said Jon's would

be instructed to implement the necossary changes and vould

account for funds rcceived during 1905. SHOLToN said that?

if Jorts did not then put the new policies into effect

he would have members of the Imperial Board neet with the

North Carolina Staic Bonrd, and if JOneS-then refused to

adopt the necessary changes

he would be replaced is Grand

Dragon.

advised it

was apparent that fOWls has

the full

backing of SHENrON.

•It was equally apparent that.

islestor is only interested in the Klan because of the moncy

involved:

By memorandum to all Agents of the Charlotte

Division dated 5/23/66, those Agents handling Klan

informants were instructed to discuss with their informants

action which could be taken to cause dissatisfactinn among

the rank and file membership. The informants were to be

instructed to take action on a Klavern level to cause

disruption, such-us-surestingthaklavernunds-be

v1thhejcfron.the.State-officc-until-more litcrature is:

Also, it was suggested that informants adopt

disruptive tactics within the Klavern such as having a

member.whomisses.threeconseeutjvemeetings-.fimed=9lr00.g

which would result in dissatisfaction on the part of nenbers.

10

---

## Page 34

Fron

information received from a numbci of

informants there are nuncious flayerns in horth Carolina

which are completely disenchanted with FOREs Icadership.

For example, the Biscoe Klavern has discontinued leeping

attendhnce records and monthly dues: are no longer being

• sent to the state office.

In the New Bern, North Carolina, area three

• Klaveins have become defunct and former members have

consolidated with the members of other units as a result

of dissatistaction over the lcadership of IRoNeS.

On 7/1/66,

As the. Bureau is avate,

and had been instrumentaitin leading

the dissident group against domes. Although

the

other informants

have been instrucied to continue to agitate against JONES'

leadership with the ultimate objective being his

replacement. In this regard, however, BOBStitiOk has

indicated to

that he doc's not desire that

any action be takon at this time which could have an

adverse affoot on his, SHeLtonks, trial foi Contenpt of

Congress schcauled for. September, 196G.

A meeting of the state officers wis scheduled

to have been held on 7/17/60 at Salisbury, N. C., at which

BOR-SHELTON was expected to plead for unity in an attempt

to stop the efforts of klan leaders to remove dOWES:

The details of this mecting have not been reported to the

Charlotte Office at this time.

The Bureau will be

furnished the results, along with recommendations of the

Charlotte Office as to what action will be taken in the

future to remove hoNES.

11

---

## Page 35

-

EL57

5281

With regard to action taken by this office

to further disrupt the klan by bringing about

publicity

and/or the arrest of Jottis in connection with

his

activities with somen other than his wiic, it has been

determined that Jouts has a girl friend, frEtSerOUn,

in Raleigh, N. C.

By Charlotte airtel dated 7/8/66, the Bureau

was requested to grant authority for this offico to

furnish to

information concerning the activities of Jowes in this

regard. This authority was granted by. the Bureau on

7/14/66.

-

Informants in logical positions have been

instructed to inmediately advise

this office upon reccipt

of any information indicating that Jokes will be in any

personal contact with dins SEsHOUR in Raleigh. Upon

reccipt of such

information by this office,

will be notifiod. It is anticipated that the arrest of

Jones and the attending publicity nill have a disruptive

eflect on the Klan

in North Carolina.

III:

TANGIBLE RESULTS

As the Bureau is aware, JONES-was arrested

112/G6 by the SBI for perjury in connection with his

divorce in 1951, in which he falsely alleged he had been

separated for tro years:

On 5/31/66,

advised that on that date a Grand Jury

In Rowan County, N. C., failed to return a true bill in

connection with

the perjury charge against JoNES.

said the Solicitor had indicated he

would present another bill against Jotes to the next

Grand Jury in latc

. 1966 or Carly 1967.

12

---

## Page 36

CP -

11 though Jokes was not tried on the charge of

forjury, his. arrest and arraignment vore afforded

considerable publicity which, according to information

received from

informants, had a bad effect on rank. and

Vile Klansmen.

Although the Charlotte Office has not

iccomplished the goal of removing R-JONES as Grand

Drar.011,

the efforts made toward this goal have -caused

side cflects which have resulted in the loss of membership

in certain Klaverns, has creatod. animosity between JoKES

ind some of the state leaders, and has generally caused

Idascontentment in the Klan throughout the state.

This

oifich does not intend io rest on the achievengits made

but intends to pursue this situation further and cause

auditional disruption at every opportunity in the future.

.

G .

13

MH 54941 • DocId: 32989596 Page 36

---

## Page 37

1 Memorandum.

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM

MERC, CHARLOTTE, 4L5287)

SUBJECT:

COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

INTERNAL SECURITY

DISRUPTION OF HATE GROUPS

(CONFEDERATE KNIGHTS OF THE KU KLUX KLAN)

CHARLOTTE DIVISION

DATE:

1/30/69

I. BACKGROUND:

'As the Bureau is aware,

during 1966, was

a movement to oust JaR JONES- as

Grand Dragon of United Klans of America (UKA) in North

Carolina. At that time

held for the purpose of

removing JONES. These activities occurred

in the Spring and

caxly Summer of 1966.

In July, 1966,

the Bureau instructed that

be severed

as an

It was not until late 1966 that he was

reactivated.

On April 1, 1967, the animosity between

and-JONES came to a head and JoNES had

In July, 1967,

insisted

that a separate Klan organization be formed. On August 20,

1967, these former members of UKA met and formed

the

Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan (CKKKK) •

_ 3010-142

@ - Bureau (kr1)

3 - Charlotte

(1 - 1572819)

C081094

REC 36

(1 - 15952833)

5772230

B18196.

(?) 2', Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

15 FED - 3. 1959

---

## Page 38

SE 157-281

Inasmuch as it appeared that this would be an

opportunity to further disrupt UKA and to entice members out

of UKA into CKKKK,

throughout the State of North Carolina. A total

of 41 charters were issued. In some cases these charters

were issued to an entire unit which was formerly connected

with UKA, and in some cases to a single individual with the

hope that that person could recruit members from UKA.

This attempt to split UKA in North Carolina and

to diminish its power was successful. In addition to the

original UKA units which joined

such units

as Albemarle, Whiteville, Wadesboro and other UkA uñits joined

Of the 41 charters issued one was in the State of

virginia. All of the others were in North Carolina. There

were 36 men's uniis anú ivur women's units chartered. In many

instances no klavern was actually organized even though a

charter was issued.

I. PRESENT SITUATION:

1.

KLAVERNS AND MEMBERSHIP

On January 24, 1969,:

These

records showed that ll men's units have never submitted any

money to the state office. The remaining 31 klaverns have paid

dues totaling $1,103.25 (an average of only $35.00 per klavern -

over a 15-month period). Only four klaverns are curreni in

dues payments and the remaining 27 klaverns are delinquent on

an average of five months:

At the present time there are only nine men's units

and three ladie's auxiliaries considered to be active, although

several of these units are not current in their dues.

These

units are as. follows:

al'=

2

sW 51911 DocIA:32989596

Rage 34.

---

## Page 39

01-157 291

Unit

Alamance 'County #3

GrOSS

Membership

Average Attendance

At Meetings

paid Up

Members

17

9

.6

Enfield #24

14

6

'Fayetteville #14

16

14

Greensboro #2

49

12

Greensboro #2A (Ladies)

8

15

4

Greensboxo #3.1

Ormonasville #9

Pitt county #8'

Whiteville #27

9

4

8

-

10

12

5

22

11

11

Whiteville #27A (Ladies)

Whitsett #4

Whitsett #4A (Ladies)

3

3

3

37

15

29

11

8

TOTALS:

197

• 11

124

From the above it can be seen that there is at the

present time a gross membership in CKKKK of 197, with only 124

dues-paying members. The average attendance at meetings is

eight per unit, or a projected total of 96 members attending

weekly meetings on a regular basis.

2. • INFORMANT COVERAGE

At the present time the Charlotte Office has one

informant in each of the following current say ELEP CHALKOM

ANS 271910

FBI

""i.

406-53: -52

firman

3

51944000014: 22298596,2Ra4e92.5

---

## Page 40

22 1575281

The Albemarle Klavern, on January 14, 1969, voted to

disassociate with CKKKK and become an independent organization.

in this klavern. One has been.

instructed to transfer to the West Stanly Klavern of UKA, and

theother has been instructed to remain in the independent

group for the

time being.

The ROXbOrO KLaVern Oi CKKKK,

and the Roxboro Ladie's Auxiliary,

have severed aîfiliation with CKKKK and are

operating as an independent organization. The continuance

of these

in the group is believed necessary in view

of the nature of individuals connected with this group.

The Wadesboro Klavern has

also

severed connections

with CKKKK and is now an independent group.

There is

in this organization and it is believed necessary to

maintain informant coverage due to the fact that there has been

racial trouble in the wadesboro area in the past.

There was

in the Charlotte,

Nashville anâ Roanoke Rapids, N. C., Klaverns of CKKKK.

These,

units are no longer active and

are being placed

in other units if possible.

III. COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ACTION CONTEMPLATED:

CKKKK has accomplished the intended results.

4

=*>a

---

## Page 41

757=28.1

to publicly criticize IR-"JoNes and lo further

weaken UKA. There are many members of CKKKK who will join any

klan organization in existence. If CKKKK Ceases to function as

an organizatión these members undoubtedly will return to uka.

This is not desirable. However, CKKKK should be controlled

in both its activities and its size.

Ic is anticipated that several of the units

will not pay the state office of CKKKK these back dues and

this will allow

Some of the units, such as Ormondsville and Pitt

County, have indicated they do not intend to pay the state office

any money •

It is believed that the above-mentioned action will

further. reduce the size of CKKKK.

Since its formation no information has been received

indicating that members of CKKKK have engaged

in any acts of

racial violence.

IV. SUMMARY:

The above represents. a summary of our continuous

analysis of CKKKK. The Charlotte Office recognizes the

initiation of a rival klan was a very delicate maneuver which

has proved worthwhile. Particular attention has been given to

insure that when CKKKK has done iis ultimate damage to UKA it

will be phased out as rapidly as possible.

Agents handling CKKKK informants have been instructea

concerning the absolute necessity for scaling down informan:

payments where justified, recognizing that the phasing out of

informants covers a period of time rather than abrupt

discontinuance.

It appears feasible that action should be taken to!

phase out the three ladie's units in CKKKK. We have closed

itt.

---

## Page 42

CE 157-281

in which auxiliaries there is nodirect coverage.

The

informani now furnishing coverage on the Greensboro Ladie's

Unit will, be phased out as necessity permits.

This entiré communication deals with CKKKK.

similar communication mill be submitted on UKA in the fucure

for the purpose

of recomnending a phase-ous program wich a

view toward conserving Agent time. It is mandatory that

we devote.any Agent time saved toward other investigative

responsibilities. The Bureau will be advised in this regara.

. •6

RECEIVES

FROM

27i97

FBI

L NH 54941 DocId: 32989596

Page 42

L. H

alt Madela

---

## Page 43

!8

6-12÷70

Artel

Mr: IDealt

- Mr, TE, "Helgeson

To: SAC, Charlotte (157-6109))

REG 138

From: DIrector, FBI (100 4800

COUNTEPINIELLIGENCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIVIALIST ILATE GROUPS

RACIAL INIELLIGLICE (BPP)

Reurlet

6-5-70.

You are authorized to prepare and mail letter

set forth in relet.

Take usual precautions to insure

mailing cannot be traced to Bureau. jdvise Burcau and

•San Francisco of any positive results

achieved.

1•. San Francisco

(7)

JUNIZ 137U

ww.41

OTE:

Charlotte has proposed counterintelligence measure to

- Sut to me that that outst at mic hip has hen rouge in o

Winston-Salon. Charlotte proposes to prepare about 100 copies of

a leaflet wnich will be sent to news services and to a number of

residents in vicinity BFP headquarters, Winston-Salen. Leaflet

would be un form of a news iten prepared by reporter for Southern

Vanguard Revolutionary Party which has been at odds with the BpP.

Letter will rcntion that Douglas Miranda, former BPP leader in

New Raven, has becn transfcrred to Winston-Salem to replace "the

more Iesponsible" former leader in Winston-Salem. Letter will also

attack Larry little, a BPP Icader in Winston-Salon, as radical and

will insinuate he is pocketing donations obtained for BPP

Brcakfast for Children Frogran. This casure may produce further

diszuption anong the black extremists in Charlotte and can be

handled without embarrassment to the bureau.

1N 54941 D0010:32989596 Page 43

---

## Page 44

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-1 18006)

DATE

6/5/70

Г:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (157-61-09) (P)

COUNTER IELLICENCE PROCRAN

HATE GROUPS (BPP)

Сії: i's

Rè Charlotte airtel to the Burcau dated 6/2/70.

--

In order to further publicize the split which has

occurred In the Bep group at winston-salem, i. C..

and also

to highlight the fact that "outside leadershis" has been

brought in, the Charlotte Division proposes that a leaflet

be preparcd

and distributed by mail in

Winston-Salem, i. C.

Approximatoly 100 copies of the leaflet should be prepared

and sent to legitimate news services, includiur radio and

television stations, and to three to four residents of each

block in the vicinity of the BPP Headquarters, 1602 East 14th

St..

These addressees would be obtained from Winston-Salem

City and Cross Reicrence Directories. The newsletter rould

be mailed in concicially purchased

envelops with the return

address listed only as S. V..R. P., Winston-Salen, N.. C.

The leaflet to be enclosed would be so signed at the end,

the reason being that a iccent issue of the Black Panther

Nevspaper contained an article critical of the southern

Vanguard Revolutionary Parts, a now defunct group started

Dy JOSE RENE GONZALYZ, at Gicensboro, N. C.

GONZALEZ was arca captain at New Haven, Conn.,

prior to the advent of DOUGLAS PAUL MIlInda. Animosity

should exist betwcen the two individuals and members of the

S. V. R. P. Should not look toward Panthers with a favorablo :

11gbst.

In this manner, unidentificd members of the S. Y. R.

will be blaned for the

P.

newsletter which is suggested. It will

read as follows:

REC- 94

"Winston-Salom, North Carolina

Black Com.unily News Sorvice

NEWS OF INTEREST TO TIE BLACK CITIZENS OF

WINSTON-SALEM

JUN S 1970

A rccent devclopment of possibic Intercst at.

Minston-Salem was recoived from a coriesponding

2-Burcau (RI1)

3-Charlotte (2-155-67091)

I-San Francisco (Info) (RM)

(1-157-03171)

I-New lavon (Info) (RAl)

THEReVS:

WW 54941 DocId: Pagé Pagé 44(7)

---

## Page 45

Cr-1-57-67-09-

reporter at New Haven, Connecticut, who advised

that Douglas Miranda,

former arca captain of

tho Black Panther Party at New Haven, has

transferred to Winston-Salen, North Carolina.

Information on the local scene indicates

Miranda is slated to talie ovor the local.

Winston-Salon Branch of the National Committee

to combat Fascism, replacion the more responsible

Robert T. Greci:

Groer, and the more stable

portion of the local NCCE, have disassociated

themsclves from the group

due to the seif

stjled dictatorial policies of Larry Little,

who was formerly known as the Lieutenant of

Information.

It is little wonder that the membership

of the Local NCCE remains at less than 10,

when consideration is given to the complete

Lack of community support for the radical

program of lattic, now that Robert I. Gicer

and

his friends have publicly disassociated

themselves from the group.

Greer. impressed this reporter as a true

servant of the people, while Little sives the

impression of being a community parasitc,

similar to the avaricirus businessmen or

the

back community.

Little lives off. the peopic

and roturns nothing. It is

rumored Little

and his trichds support themselves on 'donations!'

which they obtain in the name of the 'Breakfast

Ioi' Children Program.'"

In addition to the abovo information, on reccipt

of Bureau approval to circularize this nowsletter, a last

paragraph containing soncthing of local intciest to the

black conmunity, suchas a recently reported public housing

development, job program, or othei lichs of intciest, vill

bo added.

Thereafter, the article will be signed s. V. l. P.,

Winsion-Salem, N. C. ..

After a short period of time, the copy would

subsequently be furnished to the BP, Ministry of Information,

San Francisco, Caltfornia..

2

HH 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 45

---

## Page 46

CE. 257-6109

The Bureau is Icquestor! to authorize the handling

of tho above countcrintellinonce proposal.

No action will

Do taken by the Charlotte Division until such timo

the

Burcau's advice and consent are rcceived..

3

HH 54941

DocId: 32989596 Page 46

---

## Page 47

DIRECTOR, FBI (IDORARIZO)

DATE: . 12/2/70

SAC, CHARIOTE (1517=6202) (P)

•COITELPRO. " BLICK ENTREMIST

RACIAL MATTERS

•Re Charlotte letter to Bureau, 8/20/70.

I. OPPRATIONS UNDER CONSIDERATTON

At the present time. Charlotte has under consideration

at the Bureau a proposal for a continuation of the "News of »

Interest to the Black Citizens of Pinston-Salem" newsletter,

a series which has been extremely successful in the past against

the BPP at winston-Salem, N. C. This letter attacks the BPP

attempting to discredit them in the eyes of the community and

theredy decreasing: their support on the basis ot their failure

to pay their bills, pregnancy où the temale workers, and Iallure

in the organizing for the Revolutionary People's Constitutional

Convention (RPCC). In addition, infomation FIeS

indicates there may be some animosity betreen JULIUS WHITE

¡CORNELL, JR. and LARRY DONNELL LITTLE, the two top men in the

BPP at Winston-salem.

on a determination of a correct approach,

a proposal will be submitted in order to widen this gap.

. '.

II: OPERATIONS BEING EFFECIED

Two newsletters under the quise of the "conmitted of

•Twenty-five" have been submitted. These newsletters, under the

guise of a responsible black church-orichted group developed.

in opposition to the BPP, have attempted to cut off Bip funds.

and reduce their newspaper sales. In addition, pursuant to

Burcau instructions,

a letter was propared and mailed from

Winston-salem, N. C., tO MELVIN'ISTION, brother Of HUEY NESTON,

to assist san Francisco in a counterintelligence operation to

plant the soods of'

doubt in lucy NeWToN's mind concerning his

statu's within the BPP.

B22 DEC 01/1970

- BUICAU (R'1)

2 - Charlotte

# DEC,3.C. '97,0

HH 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 47

ince Mande Resists on the Purell TuriastS0SL

---

## Page 48

- 57/6709

III. PANGIBLE RESULTS

In connection with the proviously mentionca norsletters

which sere basically dixected to a decrease in the BPP newspaper

sales and a dccrease in community donations, it is noted that

during 8/70 the BPP grOUP vas Icceiving 2,600 copies of the

newspaper, however, sales decreasca and auring 10/70 they were

down to receiving 1.500 copies of the newspaper. During 11/70,

on three occasions they vere unable to purchase their vcekly:

supply. In addition, information vas reccivea on 9/9/70 from

inor

and on 11/18/70.EIOm.:

worst: + 299486756900r

Sures both in sinston salem lhoth of von received the

tril 10-4558

"Comnittee of Twenty-five" newsletters) that they considered

the "Conmittee of Iwenty-five" to be a church group formed in

opposition to the BPP. arsen indicated the desire.

1o join the, "Committee of quenty-five" and it me anggeston tn :

him that he

start his own group in opposition. to the BPP-until

such time as he could locute the "Committee ce twenty-five."

anushad the opinion that the neisletter would •

sway poople who were on the fence in their thinking concerning

the BPP into opposition to the Panthers and considered it a

50od idea to gencrate resistance.

IV. DEVELOPNEIIS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE INTEREST

Noting thât BPP members from Winston-salem traveled

throughout the state advertising for people to attend the

RPCC reporting that they would pay all expenses for trans

portation, meals, etc., this ultimately resulted in the panthers'

transportation being a Hertz Rental truck and private automobiles

along with poor lood and acconmodations at the RPCC which was

very disorganiica. Charlotte will submit additional counter-

intelligence proposals in this regard as the opportunity arises.

549÷1

DocId:32989596.-Pate• 48

---

## Page 49

s.id.089

8:.181

Dale:

11/27/70

Transmit the following in -

(Type in plunderd or codes

• AIRTEL

. Via -0

-

"TO:

(friorily)

DIRECTOR, FBI ([00=4 18005)

SAC, CHARLOTTE (257=6702) (P)

"COINTELPRO - BLACK EXTREMIST

RM (BPP)

Re Charlotte airtel to Burcau, 9/25/70.

It is

noted that charlotte has previously received

La bureau permission to disseminate tro nows sheets through the

I a guise of the "s.V.R.P." both of which vero critical of the.

merent leaderchin of the Rep on at sinchon-galen. d. c.

(Information from sources, the Winston-salem Police Departinent,

contacts in the black community of winston-salem

indicates that these leaders, particularly when they point out.

failures, cause the people of the community

ito cease supporting, the BPP group. It is noted that previous

counterintolligence letters pointed out the faci that half.

of cach $.25 paid for a BPP newspaper vas fonarded to Californ:

Ti-and subscquently there has been a dro? in nonslaper sales from

j're

2,500 to 1,500 per weck, and on two occasions the group failed

¿to order newspapers because they did not have moncy to pay

for them. In one of the previous lotters-LaRy fine unemy

arleader, was describod as an

"avaricious businessman" and this

"caused the poople in the area to laugh at him and his reaction

Due to the success of the previous lettors and the

"current situation within the Bry nationally concerning

the

nikovolutionary Peoplo's Constitutional Convention (RICC), the.

rifollowing propused. letter.is_sugnittca.contingent..pom.che

Tcomplete cancellation of, the RPCC:

Nose 0-73

2 - Charlotte

THiGis +p

Caneser

-S7

87 NOV N0 1572

HH 51941-

DocId: 72989596

Baue mentor.

---

## Page 50

Transmit the folloving in -

Via

FB 1•

Date:

(Type in plaintert or codel

(Priority)

"winston-salem, North Carolina

•Black Conmunity. News Service

Volume I, Issue 3

8. com

"NEWS OF INTEREST TO THE BLACK

CITIZENS OF WINSTON-SALEM

"The s.V.R.P. is submitting the following bulletin

to let the people of winston-salem know the truth about.

the pretenders on 14th street who claim to be helping

the people:

"since they won't pay their telephone bill, the

company removea the phone. There is no way to contact

them in case of an emergency situation.

"Of the five or six girls who stay or work at the

BPP Headquarters, only one, the wife.

OF JULIUS CORNELLI

is marrica, MIs. JULIUS CORieLL is not pregnant, but

all the rest are "in a family way."

It appears that

CORNELI aNd LARRY LITTLE are keeping up with everyone's

homework but their on.

Keep your wives, girl friends,

and daughters away from that placo!

"We have heard all this talk'of the big Revolutionary

People's Constitutional Convention which was to be hola

last veckond in Hashington, D. C.e Panthers have been

all over winston-salcm and for that mattor, North Carolinal

tolling everyone they would pay all expenses for anyone

wanting to attend. They are speaking of spending

MOney for buses,

trains, food, and rooms, winch they are

being evictod from their community conter on wilson

M

Per.

HW 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 50

---

## Page 51

COMM-FBI

01

CO:

In

JU

Transmit the following' in .

Via.

: F.B I

Dote:

(Type in plaintead or code),

(Priorisg)

•CE75140109

"Street for not paying the icht and can't pay thôir

back phone bill. Their national leaders must have

the same dolusions since the black officials at

washington, D. C., ask for their moncy in advasco

fox use of Howard University buildings and shortly

the convention was cancelled.

•"JULIUS CORNeL has talled of traveling to

Georgia, south Carolina, and Tennessee for the big

-

failure known as

the revolutionary people's constitutio

convention ani aiiendiry siait mingü it iir iüet.

Maybe a lot of the money meant for the convention ana

other things was spent on CORNeLL and other leaders

trying to be the 'Big Nigger.

"A word of caution! Watch out for your women

and money when in the presence of a fool who calls

himself a

'panther.'

"S..V.R.P."

It is hoped that the above will point out the

failure locally of the BPP and continuc to decrease their

community support and finances with the blame being placed

on the defunct southen vanguard Revolutionary party (s.v.R.

purged Panther JOSE GOisZALVEL:

As in the past, if Burcau authority is received,

Vi Charlotte will mail the lettor to rudressos in the area of

the BPP Headquarters, Minston-Salem, N. C. The newsletter

will be reproduced on unwatermarked paper and mailed in .

plain envelopes with stamps affixed.

3

DocId: 32989596

Page 51

---

## Page 52

7028-70

373

1-312355-5799553

To:.. SIC, Charlotio

(15/6120D0)

. Ex-70g

F2'Oil): Diractor, RES

30100-18006051899

COUNPERITESLETORACS PROGRAM

КАСТА S0251ÜLО0ИСЬ

(BLACK PIBIDES PIECY)

ICCEalItO1 7-15-70.

Won nor nuthorared to nonare aud mail ruonymous

raise listed piéematidiso

and'intcrosted oitices of positivo Losulis achlovod.

I-Ean Francisco

€18/L

CON:

Boope

9950.814, 8'.18.

1.1100110

(6)

HOTY:

Vise to

This is continuation of previously approved

counterinichligence measuic

cosigned to aitaci. Black Panther

Party (127) leaderchip in Winston Enlen, doich Carolina.

Last month Charlotte preDated and miled about 100 copies

of a Icariot to sovservicus and residents in vicinity

We hennuartnis, rinston Salen,

belittling prescht leadership

at Tingion Ealcu.

Charlotto has notod irrorable terponse

Lo letico in liario community and locinod to intlow-up with

second such miling.

Propcced maililo titl allego that Larry

Tittle, it leader, lives ois

the people and rives them

nothing in retuin.

Ictior will be signed by southern

Vanguard Nevolutionary Party, a gioug wich has been at odds

N2kh i22.

This railled witch

can be handled without

cubairassuent to the buron should bioduce futher disruptipu

and distrust of Lip In Winston Salch.

@QJUL 301S70

---

## Page 53

mit the following in

AJRTIL

Dol":.

7/10/70

('spo in planecad er codi)

(P'riorit;)

TO: :.

DIRECIOR, FBI (100-118005)

FROM: SAC, CHARLOTTE (157 G109) (1))

COULTIRTITELLIGONCE PROGRA!!

(ELACK PANTICON JANTY)

Ro Charlotte airtol to the Burcau datod 6/17/70.

In connoction rith tha Counterinillironce Erograu,

Charlotic Oileo, Charlotte deniEco lo Spare aid mail

1116112620. 1101. 40. 6100000d Oô MammÖbbot,

black comunity nois services.

rodod that the initlal

nowoletier was pregaled and milod

02 6/13/70, and l'Caction

to this nerspapor indicaico ii ves iuvorably roccived.

16/22/70,

that sciriad iciri

naro naids nad osen noied

1augh255 shout tho Black Panther ferty (052) and comuenting?

on a lotter recoivod in the Black Panthor coighborkosd

parcoile and arricious

thO neOple LION LAKiNg LITTLE SOriOusLy ard sccicase l'inancial

donations.

The newsletter proposed is as follous:

Z-Bureau (RI)

2-30n March (341)

IoSan Trarcisco

'2-Charlotto

(6)

TA SU X CO

9&JUL 301970

Approvad:

militi

le in Chasge

HH 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 53

Sent-

c. 11

Per.

---

## Page 54

smit the following in

Dule:

(Type in plaintest or codel

(i'riorily)

"Moton-Salon, Forth Caroliwa -

Black Cormunity lows

Scivice

Volumo I, Issue 2

8...

"HEYS OF STEREST TO THE BLACK

•CITIZCIS OT VIISTON-SALEL

"The S.r.R.P, has boen follovin with intercot

Cho trial of Lourie tellers

wook the errand an no05.

by macho conse cut.

on trial foimis life in concoction cith the slayir.

of Alos haciley who was roportedly killed by mosbors

0f the Black anthor 520up ai low laïen for being a

piE agOnE.

"Inaddition. to ucLucas and othor persons

operating aü kon Savon, Connacticut, bobby Scale,

•the Icacor In the. Blach Panthor, is diso unaci

It is interesting to note tat all tho

licty in both the black Panther cougaber and

8ha lortborn orcas concerns only bobby sealo.

Littilo, J.5

any, raution is made of lonnie liclucas,

and li causes

this reportor to ronder if a worth

Carolin born and rained poison is as important

to the revolution as tho

"Vanguaids cron the liest

Coast!.

"On tho local scone Larry little continues

to loscablo nore closcly the avaricious businessmon

and slumlords oi the black comunity cach day that

ho opcrates.

It is hard to seo the rood thai Little

does oven 1f it exists because of the dictatorial

•?

Approved:

HH 54941 DooId:32989596 Page 54

, Sent ani

•Per

---

## Page 55

insmit the following in

+8891944

FBl

Dalc:

(Type in plantear or codel

(l'riarie;)

en 1576409

manner in which he conducts

the affning of the

Mansion-Salon Branch of the letional Cornittoe

to Combat inscism.

st has

boon learned thant

Little continós to live off the poopio ard

it 13 hard

thico articloo a nonth in the Black Panther

Party nonapager scoiot in

conditiois

o¿ tee ilact: peoplo of WiLstOn

salon, wien Litilo could ba doina mxcuuctivr

wall and not eating community sood thich could

.

As in the previous nouglatter, an additiomi

paragranh of sonnihirs oi 100al inccresi of the blick

community such is bublic leuslege don progrand, cic.,

will be added and

incroafter, the

Is. ThoR., linston Salen, lath Carolina,"

nticio with bo signed

After a short pariod of tino. a copy will be

Iurnished to the BPP linistry of

Inioreation, San francisco,

Calif.

Tho bureau is rchuesied to canaditioualy nuthorize

this countcrintolligence operation and upon reccint of Bureau

approval, Charlotto vill mail it to addrosses in to vicinity

Of BlY honduumicis, lirston-seen, r. C.

norsletici vill

Do rapinducci on unnator marbed paper and sont out in plain

covelops vith stamps nitacled and not franiod.

: 3

NH 46947: DocId: 32989596 Paue 55

---

## Page 56

Listen

8-21-70

Airtel

1

To: SAC, Charlotte (15706103 .

Erọm: • DirectoEX-100

CHI (100-143006

COUNTERINTELLIGRICE PROGEMI

BLACK HATIONALISI - HATE GROUP

RACIAL INTELLIGLECE

RACIAL MATTERS - BLACK PANTHER PARTY

ReCEalrtel 8-17-70.

You are authorized to prepore and mail enonynous

marchest sat footh in referenced ristal.

Insane lotter

cannot be traced to tlie lurenu.

Advise Burcau and interested

offices of positive results achieved.

I ~ San Francisco

JOtbad, (6)

FOTL:

Charlotte has been aggressive in its program to

disrupt the Black Panther Party (BPP) in Minston-Salem.

They

have been submitting newsshects and anonymous letters attacking

the lcadership of the Bir in Winston-Salem.

This group is having

financial difficulty and is pushing for conations. A newssheet

will be prepared and mailed to a group primarily of business and

religious leaders in the black comunity cntitled "The Committee

of Trenty-Five." The nersshectilso set out that this committee

was organized by responsible black people and formed in secret

to avoid repression by the hoodlum elchent.. The B'P in

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE TIO

rie,

11970

HIH

54941 156614P0193950k1.а

---

## Page 57

room

0888008

NE:

COUNTEREDCS, PRICKI

BLACK NATIONALIST

IT* GROUP

RACIAL INTELLIGEICE

100448006

•NOTE CONTINED:

Winston-Salen will be described as one using the children in

the comunity for an unjust causc. The newssheet will point

out that each tire a citizen pays 259 for a Black Panther

newspaper one-halt of this amount goes to support the leadership

in California and the remainder to support those to picy upon

the local people. The Cormittee of Ivenüy-five will from time

to time point out certain things to the citizens such as the

tact the BPP encourages young children to drop out of school

and asking thon to get their oducation in the streets.

Charlotte intends to mail approximately 200 copies under.

usual precautions hoping to create enough opposition to the

Panthers.

IT 54941 DocId: 32989595 / Page 57

---

## Page 58

• a stati:

111888:

Transmit the following in

la give on plaintead or senies

Via

AIRTEL

(Priorisy)

TO :.

FROM:*

DIT iCTOR, PII (200-448006)

Si.:, CHARLOTTE (157-6209)

C UNTERINPELLIGBUCE FROGRAM

I ACK NATIONALIST - HATE GROUP

RACIAI, INTELLIGENCE

(BLACK PANTIER PARTY)

(P)

Re Charlotüe airtel to Bureau, 8/14/70.

•It is noted that under the name S.V.R.P., which

allegedly stands for the Southern Vanguard Revolutionary

Farty, Charlotte has been

submitting a neuslotter sith the

captor "Moro vi interesi iu ine diach civiceno us Minsion-daiem.

This letter is written in the vein that it is a nersshcet

from

a black groüp at winston-Salem of a slightly higher caller

than the Bre aroup...

These letters have bech primarily derogatory

concerning the leadershi..

the present time,

the group 1's

.. In financial difficulty and is pushing for donations in the

black community: primarily froin businesses, either black oined

or with predominantly black trade.

in irls connecuion,

Charlotte desires to irstitute

the folloting plan, noting

that it 1s to be auned

prinarily at business and religious

groups and is to be triüten in torms of a citizen or neighborhood

oxganization with religious orientation

The caption of this newssheet which is to be

prepared

and mailed in Winston-Salem will be

"The Cominittee

Twenty-Five" and will read as follows:

Bureau: (Ri)

2X.100

Su Francisco

(Ri)

Charlotte

THG idh

(5)

NA0-101

Approved:

Sent

XI.

trater

0. 3. c052890e7ar ritures OfFICE: 194940-206-990 1118

Special Agent in Charge

HW

54941 DocId: 32989596

Page 58

---

## Page 59

+43047154498tatef

Transmit the folloving in

Via

1100r.0;

Tir in planes de couch

(Prioris;)

"Cr

The Cominittee of Trenty-Five was organized

by responsible black people of Sast Winston and

was loned in secret lo avold repression bis io

hoodlum elenent.

Its reason for cxistence

expose and destroy any group which is enslaving

our people.

The chains of past slavery are almost gone;

yet, a new master, Chinege-süyle Communism in.

the name of the linston-Salem Commitee to Combat

Fascion, is now using the blood of our children

to lead us back into slavery. The Black Panther

Party which operates in Winston-Salem as the

Winston-Salon Mational Connittee to Combat Fascism

has the purpose of overthrowing the prescht system

of Government by force, using our children

33

cannon fouder, dying for a godless, impossible,

and unjust cause.

We want everyone to knoi that each time

you

pay 25. cents for a Black Panther neuspaper,

one half of this money goes to support Black

Panther leadership In California and the rest

to support those

who prey upon us local people.

A small amount of the money donated by wcll-

intentioned

but 1ll-infosmed people actually

Iceds children in the Fanther breakfast program

while a nuch larger part supports the local

Black Fanther leadership who then have no need

to do honest work and can prey upon the local

people.

the ront, electricity, and lood for a

dozen geople, even

If they are

going under the

pretexi.of helping the. community is quite an

amount.

2

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

Sent

Per.

U.S, GOVERNIENT PRINTING PRDICE:: +968 0-148-070 8911

1

HH

549+1-DoeIt: 32989596 Page

59

---

## Page 60

0, 1.9040 to

Transmit the following in .

Via

Dale:

(type in plunders or corich

(t'riority

/

It Interested in improving the lot of the

black people in East. Winston,

they could do much

more good by tolling

for bettor caucalion,

employnent opportunities and such.

They no:,

In fact, rreach

the gospol. of dropping out of

school and "getting your education in the

streets' which is not the way that we have made

progress.

The Fanthers publicly oppose our fachers;

sons and daughters the fought In' Korea and now

Vietnan since they support the teachings of

MAO TSE. TUJG Of Red China

and KIn it suNG of

Müêth Korde rio müce ühe

the korean War and support the North

Vietnamese at the present time.

The Commitiec of Twenty-Five will fron

time to time point out these things to the

people In our arca- Due to our limited funds,

we can do little but lie hope that If other

citizens are interested they v1l1

forn similar

groups in their inmediate areas and x111 make

contact with the Committee of Twenty-five in

order that ie may go forward together.

Charlotte proposes to prepare the above on

unwatermarked, commercially-purchased blue or red paper,

using inexpereive envelopes, not like those used by the

SVRe projects in order they will not be concated.

n. receipi of Bureau aproval, approximately 200

copies will be malled out to churches and businesocs in

castern half of winston-Salen, i. C

It is hoped that

this project will crsale enough opposition to the lanthers

to cui down their funds and senerate some type of comnunity

group in opposiiion.

3

lu

Approved:

Sent

• Special Agent in Chorge

•M Per .

u.s. s.t05199559N7 SmissING CHISS: 806850-948-844821

HH 54941 DocId:32989596 Page 60

---

## Page 61

++4878-478 08801800o8.oom

does the notor

woode 19180s o

Transmit the following in

Vio

Trope in plantede or codes

(priorisg)

CB15102

Upon receipt of Bureau approval, the operation

will je

carried out in such a manner as the Bureau will

not be identifica.

Approved:

Sent

Special Agent in Charge

Per —

U.S. GOVERNANT SHUNTHIG OFFIES:: 19690-305-008 8816

HH 54941

DocId: 32989596

---

## Page 62

RONE IT DNVELOPE

132kc1

8-24-70

• -8. 11

I' Mr Fingram

To:

SAC, Chaplotte (757 64-02.

Lile

Fron: Director, is (1003445006,

COUNCCRINICILIGZ CE PROGRAI

BLICK NITICCLIST - LITE GROUP

RICSAL IITTSLAIGAICE

RACIAL MATERS - BLACK PANTHER PARTY

• ReCHalatel to Bureau 814-70.

suthority to grenade and mail anommons letter js

denied,

This action could prompt larry Domoll Littie, Blacl

raniuce Party (B2p) Icader;

Hinston-Salem, and his associates

¿o violontly resisi arrest by police in the futuso.

The aggressive action in your counterintelligence

progran to disrupt the BPP in Minston-Salcm is notevorthy

anel you should continue to capitaline on each and every

• incident to drive a wedge betwoon the BeP and the local

Regro residents.

• San Francisco

MOSE

HOTE:

Charlotte has previously nailed 100 copies of a

caflet belittling the prosent leadership of the BPP at

Winston-Salen.

The copies vere mailed to appropriate restonts

in the Negro cormurity. Infomants have indicated a dissension

between the BPP group in Vinston-salem and one of their Icaders

AUC 3 1 1970

1355

NOTE CONTILUED PAGE THO

LUDE STUNGONE TELETITE LITE

HW 54941 DooId: 32989596

Page 62

then

wa..

Dra:

---

## Page 63

Atal to biG, Charlotte

KE: COUNTELDHTOLLIG.OOG PROGE 11

BLACK MANONALIST - HATE GROUP

RICIA, INTELLIGEICE

100-4048005

NOTE CONTINUAD:

Larry Domell ittle. Little vas arrested on 7-28-70 for

disoiderly do luct in' Winston-Salem and selcased on bond.

He appared :: court on 8-12 and

charges against him vere

nol. prossed: nee witnesses failed to appear.

Charlotte

desires to múul an anonymous bullotin entitled "News of

Intcrest to the Block Citizens in Minston-Salon" indicating

Little vas arrested on 7-28-70 for disorderly conduct without

resistaneo on his part. Hedid not defend one of the sisters

3 ...

¡ho ius slapped as she bit a pig. The loiter rould indicaie

that Little,

as the big Panther pig-hater, did not defend

the sister and when he appeared in court he vas released

without any difficulty.

One Charlottciniomant has indicated

there is some digrrein alini tho

fare Trista did not resist.

arrust since he has previously staied that all Panthers should

physically resist arrest.

-2=

IT 51911 DorIa: 3298959

Pa

---

## Page 64

{81

Dals:

8/211/10.

I the following in

(Tape in plaintest or codel

AIRIEL.

(priority)

10:

FROM:

• DIRI :TOR, FBI (I00-448006)

SAC, CHARLOTTE (157-5209)

"(P)

OCOL TERINUILIGENCE FROGRAM

BLACK WATIONLIST -

HAPE GROUP

- RACIAL ITTBILIGENCE

(BLACK PANTHER FARIY)

Re Charloüte airtel to the. Bureau, 7/31/70.

Roferonced airtel portained to a countcrintelligence

mailing radc under

Winston--alem, N. C.

that there continues to be dissension boticen the BEP

group

at Winston-Salem and LARRY LiTTlE has not determined who

Is wilting the letters referred to above.

More and more members drop out que to dissatisfaction;

nowever, lt cannot be positively ascertained thot these loiters

are the cause.

But according to i

they are

discussed among BFF members. •It is noted that they arc

malled

to addresses in the vicinity of the BPP headquarters.

In this connection it is noted that six. individuals, including

RRY DONNELL LITTLE, were arrested on 7128,70 for disorderly

conduct and released on bond.

LITTLE appeared in court on 8/12/70 and charges

against hin were nol prossed with leave to. reinstate due

to

rallure of prosecution witnesses

to appear.

tese charges kill

be,

all likelihood

in fact,

instituted.at

later

date

and luttle rearresiod; norever, in

the interin

Charlotte

- Bureau (Ri1) -

San Francisco

2 - Charlotte

(Rii)

(5)

++016-8660-855740

TO AUG IS ISO

i terror going

!.s'

Approved:

• 11141

special Agent in,@harge

77 31971 D00Id: 32989596

Pate 64-

Sent -

M1 Per

U.3. CDNDHNALNIT PRINTIPC OTRICE: 15870-548-0701168

---

## Page 65

ansmit the following in

FBI

- Dale:

(Type in plaintes or coddl

(Priority)

CE157-002

desires io out out an additional Issue which is to be Volumeil,

Issue d3, of the "Nows

of Interest to the Black Citizens of

Wiriston-Salem" which letter sould be prepared in the manner

of the previous issues with the caption in Large letters

"Bulletin"

and the body as

• follows:.

;

ine SuRi noted the arrest of LARRY LITTLE!

July 28, 1970, for disorderly, Conduct. This

appearco to be somewhat odd as it ras our information

that MItTLe and his associates wore the ones tho had

the crowd gathered to joll at the pigs as they

arrived.

JTTTlE was arrented: booked. and releasca

without resistance on his

part: This really looked

odd since LiTILs as the big Panther pig-hater did

not defend one of the sisters or himself when the

sister was slapped as se bit

a pig.

The crowning

touch came when LITTLE appeared in court on August 12

and was relcased..

Is lt possible thai we have a pig among us

.. Inside SURP, Winston-Salem, North Carolina?

It is hoped that the above letter will implant the

LITTLE 1s not knon to be an informant of the Pl and according

to La

there has

been some discussion about

the l'act that Lirlbe did not resist arrest or take other

action as he has called for. the other Panthers to do 1n

the past.

The Rureau 1s requested to copeditiously authorise

this counterin' clligenes sucratlon and upon approval, harlotte

will mall lt to adaresses in the vicinity of BrP headquarters

at Winston-Saiem, M. C.. The nowspaper will be reproducea

on unratermarkso roger

and sent out in plain envelopes ilth

stamps attached and not franked.

2

Approved:

Sent

HH 54941

Special Agent in Charge

DooId: 32989596

Page 65

aper.

U. 3, COVAHSNENT CHINTINO DEDIES: 18930-586-0201811

---

## Page 66

ROUTE

wii

VELOPE

13.- 2-70

Airtel

To:

sOSiPharLotte (157-6109)

From: Dircctor,

R58:79200-48006 200

COUNTERINTOLLIGRNCE PROGRAM

BLACK NATIGNALIST - ILATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTEZLIGENCE (BLICK PATHER PARTY)

alson .

VISHA

•Iss

slinese

allahan

Reurairtel 10-26-70.

You are authorired to prepare and mail anongnous

newsletter set forth in reterenced artel. insure tire

?.

anonymous newsletter cannot be traced to the Bureau. Advise

burcau of positive results received.

1 • San Francisco

JOI:-bad

(5)

• NOTE

LIMILED 22

This is a continuation of previously approved

#0VOcounterintelligence measures designed to cause dissension

between|the Black Panther Party (BPP) leadership and the degro

coconunity in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Charlotte has

previously mailed several hundired copies of this lenflet

belittling the BPP: Informants. have reported uissension among

the BPP group in Winston-Salem:

In September is

man....

reported that conversation betseen BP? netional headquarters

and the Winston-Salen office indicated they had many Dinblems.

smong those Bri members having

been arrested on arted robbery

charges.

The leaflet to be railed under the anonyrious caption

"The Cormittee of 25"

contains

the usual misspellings and

NOTE CONTINUED PAGE THO

anill

TCETYPE UNITE

NF 14941

DОC10:32989596

•Pare

66

---

## Page 67

Miniel to sic, Charlotte

RE: COUNTERINTELLIGEACE PROGRA

BICK MNTIONALIST - ITE GROUPS

RICIAL INTELLIGECE (BLACK PANTILER, PARTY)

100-448006

NOTE: CONTINUED:

othcr.crrors and it is an attack on the Panthers for commission

of armed robberies in the

Winston-Salen area; Larry Little,

their leader, for his public refusal to worl, instead of going

-to jail; and the fact the Panthers are shoplifting from local

Negro store owners.

The newsletter also sets forth that the -

Panthers are attempting to create a violent confrontation .

between the police and the Panthers. and this will only hurt

the black community. Concerning previous newsletters under

the same caption a local legro pastor and leader of the liCP.

in Winston-Salem has exhibited past newsletters indienting

ho holines this to he a goal made hy some amalt abrinch.

afraid to speak out publicly against the Black Panthers.

This

is another: good counterintelligence measure to drive a wedge

between the BPP and the local Negro residents of Winston-Salem.

1475-51

-2.

—H 54911

DoxId: 32989596

Page 67

---

## Page 68

FBI

Dai: 10/20670

Tronomil the following in

(Tape in plansee or codes

AINTEL

Vio

(l'riorit))

TO:

SULJECT:

D

HECTOR, IDI (200-14005)

C, CIATLOTTE (157=6F09) (D)

COUNTERINTELLIGANCE PACGRIM

BLACK XATIOULIST - HATE GROUPS

RACIAL INTELLIGCNCE (BLICK FARTHER PARTY)

Re Charlotto airtel. to Burcan dated 8/17/70; Bircau

airtol to Charlotte dated 9/18/70; and Chailotte airtel to

Bulenu dated 9/25/70.

It Is

noted that the chariore wined mainer vui

news sheet captioned "The Cormitice of Wenty-fivo"

pursuant

to Burcau authority. Response vas

sood; and, in Jack,

Salen, i. C., and pastor of a

regro church, produced one of

the letters

noting that he considered it a 600d move by scue

shall church coup wo weie diraid to speal out publicly and

believed that

the letter would

away boopic who weie

"on tho

fence" in

their thinking about the Black Panthers.

adcation, inforration from the Vinston-salon, i. C., Folico

Departient indicutes this proposal my nue caused a docicase

in donations

and other comunity support of the black Farüher

marty noting thuy die having extione difficulties in disposin.

of their newspapers.

Do to the apparent succoss of this operation,

Charlotte cosires its continuance; and tha

following excpored

Isitor under

tie cartic"

"The Connittee of 25" is presented

for the burcau's approval:

""The Committen of 05"

"The sluc! Fandras of ou nainborhood fiave

Fates of

REC-20

again shoun their complete cisremid foi the

11V0-13

2

Bureau (mil)

Charlotte

1719202

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

HH 54941

DocId: 32989596 Page 68

Sent -

" Per

---

## Page 69

smil the following in

FBI

Dals:

lippe in plantead or court

(triorass)

64 357-6100

of black people by their armod roblories of hoth

blacks and wites.

donald Carnes and dichard

Carted are in jail

and rightly ao, foi i vicious

armied rottery conniitod on i. futterion, joe

Haddoll and ico moocberry are in jail in lit

Point foi E vicious armad robbery wair ine lives

of many black people vere dancerod. they don't.

Ically cure abcui

U3 45 1015 25

they can

stab

something off for themsclvce.

"Lariy Little ho Fantheis say have liech

üicnting

soile

tine ago ho would rather

go to jail than

worl: 10r 30 days.

If he would work

he could lecy

hinself up and not he bescing from us mndch the

disguise of the bocalfact

procan.

This shows

ne and the other black

panthers at? just on.

more slumlord ve have to contond with.

"This grouy has grown so fowl thay can not

get members fion

the decent roopic of the

neighborhond and are now taking in punks and

sissios like Lari'y's brother Porcell. It is

becoming a quocr house and no wonder they want

ou children there. for 'bicahfast.'

"Our contributions and buring the black

Panthci paper help

support those lazy bandits

who refuse

to voi! and then rob from us.

(watch the black panther monker when he comes

to your store cara jing a

package.

It has &

door in it ind théy steal cron us

by placing

meit or alore insido the rachage and cartring

it out.

fion them or they will

steal you blind no matter what jour coler.)

"It is well known in our community the Blacl

Panthers are barricading their house and they have

guns. They plan among thousclves to set soncthirs

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

+77 51011 DocIdl:32989596

Pare 69

Sent

.M

Per

atta

isio

8..

---

## Page 70

onsmit the following in

• FBI

- Dots:

(Type in planted or code)

(Priority)

C510100

startod with the police in hopes some of us in

the neighborhood will be lilled while they are

safe in

thcir hole.

They will thon try to blare

the police to güin

our support for themselvos.

Even worse if no one in the neightorhood is killed

they talk of killing one of the children there .

themselves and brimeing it on the police. De

alcit to this.

"He see thoir constant lies in the Black

Panthos Marty and hear their constant domands

Go mart phl we Maot They Gro Murk another

communist baclica Malia as far as le arc concernod.

ive the Committee of 25 charge Julius Cornel.1,

Nelson Malloy, Larry Little, Richie Hooper, and

the lack family as loochos and traitors to

the

blacl people and suppori. the gioning effort to

RemOve

those fools iron our community.. Those black

Panther's we have not named may be saved and we uige.

you to Icave the blach panther party row before

the wath of the people smashes you.

"Wrap about this anong yourselvos and pray for

Us and our work lo free the blaci: boople fron all

lecches and nasters."

It is noted that thore are misspollings and other

citors; holcver, this is to make the norsletter more icalistic.

it is balioved that- the nonaleitor if moparod in this mannei

will bo in attack or

the Panthore for conniacion of airod

robberies; Lili tiTTli, thei? leader, for his public tofusal

10 tort inotoad

of going to jail; and

the fact that

the

Panthers are shoplifting foon local stores.

In addition,

i.n

the

event a violent

confrontation does occur botroon the

•polico and the Panthers, no mtich to piovolica it,

the giound-

Word: will be laid toi

the lanthers to lose support.

~ 3 -

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

im 51011 DocTd: 30980596 Pace 70

Sent

Per

---

## Page 71

sit the following in

FBI

Dale:'

(Type in plainters or code)

(Priority)

Cie6100

O: locoipt of burcau approval, apposinately 200

copies pichulcd on commeicially purchased, umaternaried,

culorod paper, using ineapansive envelopes, will be miled.

The operation will be handled in such a

nannci 50

the Burical will not begiuentifiod.

тосТ

wond

• -

Sent -

- M

Per° -

---

## Page 72

Dale:

BOTT

e lollowing in.

AIRTEL

Taype mn plantead or coled

(Priority)

TO:

DIRECIOR, FBI (700-1180067

FROM:

SAC, CHARLOTTE (157-67-09) (P)

4 8.

COUNTER

COINTEIPRO

WICK PANTIER PARTY - DISSENSION

KNI

Re Charlotte airtel to the Bureau dated 2/9/71" and

Director's airtel to Charloite dated 2/23/71:

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy and San Francisco

one copy xerox o1 newspaper articie appuaring un pagos one anc

tuo of the Winston-salem, N. C., Journal under the caption,

"2 Arrested After Gunfire at Hlouse." It is noted that this: is

the same day's paper as mentioned in referenced Charlotte airtell

containing an article captioned, "Confiscated Ilems

Labeled As

stolen," however is of later edition and contains primarily the

same information.

It is noted that LITTLE is apparently no longer at

odds with lAZEL wiCK; therefore, the signature of wALtINA BANGER,

a Negro lemale who associaiod with the Panther group for a

short period of time and then dropped out, vill

be used.

The

lotter will be directed to CATHY HARRIS at the kast Oakland

Community Information Center, 1321 - 99th Avenue, Oakland, Califl

HARRIS was acquainted with BANGER When HARRIS was at linsion-

Salem, N. C.

The Bureau is requested to approve this counterintelli-

gence proposal.

17317

Burcau

- San

Francisco

(RH) (Enc. 15.0L03015

(EnC. 1) (R11)

2 - Charlotte

(0)

Approved:

6. MAR lOTI

fa

Speciol

Agent 1d

Sharge

Sent

Per

---

## Page 73

case:

3-19-11

Artel

To: SiG, Charlottc (757-0109)

REC 70.

From: Director, FBI (100-446006-

COINTELPRO

BLACK PANTIER PANTY

RACIAL MATTERS

Reuzairtel 3-5-71.

Referenced airtcl setting forth a COUter-

Intelligence proposal

contains indusficient inãcamation

For the Bureau to male a determination as to the value of

such a proposal. Resubmit your saquest concerning this

matter and include therewith a copy of the proposed lettor

you intend to utiliza.

1 - San Francisco

RE-Rebac

5)

NOTE

Referenced airtel sets forth Charlotte's

reconmendation for a counterintelligence proposal designed

to create dissension within the Winston-Salem, Worth Carnlina,

NCCE chapter. However, referenced communication furnishes

insufficient information to make a determination for approval

or disapproval. Corresponderer referenced in referenced airtel

also contains insufficient information concerning Charlotte's

proposal.

-

-COMAR 261$78

"s.

MAIL ROOMEV:, TELETYPE: UNITL

1TH

51941

DooId: 32989596 Page 73.

---

