# docid-32339483

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/5/2015

• AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90149-10079

RECORD SERIES : DE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-914-4

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DE

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 04/27/1962

PAGES:

26

SUBJECTS:

ANTHONY ZERILLI

THE CRIMINAL COMMISSION

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

10/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT; INC ADMIN PAGE

v9.1

NN 45993

DocId: 32339483

Page 1

---

## Page 2

L°D-265 i ReT. 3-1-39)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

DSTROIT

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

NEW YORK

TITLE OF CASE

THE CRILINAL "COLLISSION" ;

ETAL;

DETROIT DIVISION

DATE

4/27/62

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

3/30 - 4/26/62

REPORT MADE BY

HARVARD B. HEYSTEK

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR - CONSPIRACY

TYPED BY

futp

RUF BR ANCES:

Bureau airtel to New Tork, 3/29/62.

New York airtels to Bureau, 4/3/62 and 1/6/62.

- ---

ENCLOSURES:

TO BURBAY:

Original and one copy of a letterhead memorandur

characterizing informants utilized in instant repori.

LEADS:

DETROIT

At Detroit, Michigan:

"ill follow and report evidence of personal

meetings

or communications by JOSEPIl ZERILLI OF WILLIAM TOCCO with neubers:

of the "Conmission" in other areas.

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3 - Bureau (snc. 2)

2 - New York (92-2316)

9.

Dotroit (92-914)LA

DISSEMINATION RECORO OF ATTACHED REPORT

AGENCY...

REQUEST RECO

DATE FWD...

HOW FWD.

BY...

NW 45993 DocId:32339483 Page 2

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-914-41

SEARCHED

SERIALIZED

INDEXED

FILED

NOTATIONS

MLA. GOUIANKENT PAIMILNS CFFICE

18—76324-1

---

## Page 3

DE 92-914

INFORMANTS:

Identity of

Source

CG T-1 is

CG F0d3-C*

DE T-1 1s

DE: 370-0

Date

• 9/8/59

10/21/55

11/30/55

1/23/58

1/21/59

12/12/59

11/20/60

11/23/60

1/14/61

3/11/61

6/24/61

8/5/61

9/10/61

1/3/58

3/24/58

Agent to Whon

Furnished

Location

PALMER M. WEE

OTHER 4

18

JOSEPH E. ISELAN

JOSEPH E, ISEMAN

JAMES I. SHANAHAN

137-7-63

137-1-71

137-7-126

137-7-3.53

237-7-170

157-7-193

237-3-134

137-1-133

137-7-200

237-7-205

137-7-206

1137-7-210

137-711-59

92-218-535-334

DE T-2 1s

ĐE 710-C

DE T-3 1s

forDer PCI

DF 7-1 19

DE T-5 15

DE 878-C

3/31/58

9/27/61

10/11/61

10/25/61

11/22/61

11/30/61

1/10/62

2/28/62

DIE T-6 19 ECT 1/15/58

-C-

COVER PAGE

JOSEPI E. ISEMAN

137-32-37

ROBERT N. FITZPATRICK 197-2879-13

137-2839-17

134-2633-26

137-2839-39

137-2833-43

8C-2009-5

187-2339-8

GEORGE L. BLUT

: 137-5223

'WH 45993 DocId:32339483 Page 3

---

## Page 4

1'D-201 (Rer. 2-3-59)

EUIT STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUS

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CE

Copy to:

Report of:

Date:

SA HARVARD E. HEYSTEX

April 27, 1902

Field Office File No.:

92-914

Title:

THE CRIMINAL "COSMISSION";

ETAL,

DETROIT DIVISION

Character:

ANTI-RACKETEERING - CONSPIRACY

Office: DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Bureau File No.:

Synopsis:

-

Chicago source furnished information describing JOSEPH

ZERILiT of Detroit as & nenber of the "Commission".

Detroit sources acrised ZERILLI is the final authority

1n naticis involving the Petroit "Syndicato".

Idertities

and adcreases of past and present "elder statesmen",

their sons, and individuals Identified with the retroit

"Syndicate"

set out. No present information available

frou Datroit sources as to menbership in "Causa Nostra"

or identities of "button nan", "caçoregima"

"consulcri" activities of the

Detroit "syndicate" include

numbers operations, racing infornation service, Durbute,

crap fines, card ganes and shylocising.

JOSEPH TERILLI

simits being in vicinity of JOSFPil BARBARA's houe on

date of Apalachin necting , 11/14/57, but denied having

knowlcoge of rectiny or intention of attending. Dotroit

sources report highly organized and disciplined criuinal

operatiou doninated by ZERILLI and "older statesnen"

who received a shere of the proceeds.

Chis document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the Droperty of the FBI and is loaned to your agency: it an‹

to contents are not to be distributed outside your agenes

NW 45993 DocId: 32339483

Page 4

---

## Page 5

C

DE 92 • 914

rebuffed by the Jewish ganblera who had ties with Cleveland

and Sast Coast Sicilians, but might be afraid oi losing

controi to the Sicilians. The source expressed the opinion

that it night be necessary to "clip" one or tuo of those

Jewish gandlers in order to convince then that the younger

men scant business.

The source added that there appeared

to be s closer liaison between the Detroit Sicilims and

those in Chicago and other citica than there had been in

recent years.

Sourco advised on septombcr 10, 1951, that the

"outfit" was aware that HIKE RUBINo was then &

"not package"

(being under investigation in 8 National Bankruptcy Net case).

Source said that for that reason RubINg no longer had any

specific duties and had assumed about the same position as

ANGLLO MILI, JODI PRIZIOLA, und other "elder statosnen".

Source: DR F?

0718-0

fession

opinion, there existed a

group generally

knom as the "Syndicate".

He said JOB ZERILlI was regarded

- as the top nan and that next to him would be wIlLini tocco.

Source said that he was convinced that ZERILLI had the final

word in settling local disputes, was a top policy maker, in

Detroit, and was a man of influence anong "Hafis menbera"

throughout the country.

Source:' DE Io8

tomor PrI

Source advisod on larch 24, 1958 that gambling in

Detroit was controlled by the "Italian Syndicate" and aded

BOILARITO,

ENd PETE LICAVOLI.

Source advised that this syndicate

controlled the numbers racket to a largo extent, as well as

handbooks, barbute, and football pools. Source added that

none of the top nen naned performed any dutice to big knowledge

that would link then to ganbling, but said that they had

trusted lieutenants to do the aay to day work, maintain accounts,

and split up the proceeds.

Source: DE I-4

Source adulsed on sarch 31, 1958, that he had keen

employed by the "Syndicate" and that, in his opinion, it cousisted

DI PITE LICAVOLI, VILUIAL TOCCO, JOE MERILLE, ANGLLO LELI,

-

OTHER 4

HW 45993

DocId: 32339483

Page 5

---

## Page 6

C

DE 92-914

JOIN PRIZIOLA, aNd pOSALblY JOE COMMITO, Source said that

as far as he lnew nost of/these were wealthy aen who had

no direct connection with any of the active gambling operations.

he identified the nen wo did the work and operated on a

cally basis for the

"Syndicate" as LIKE RUBINO, LAX STERN aud

TONY GIACALONE.

SOUrCE: DE TO D. NA: 'TE..

7.78

Source advised on Septenber 27, 1961, that without

question the "top guy" in Dotroit was Job zimIlI.

Source

said that nore or less in a direct line under aalibli gero

"BLACK BILL" TOSCO, "PAPA JOY" PRIZIOLA, ANGELO BELI, JACKIE

TOCCO, TOMY ZEnILLI, bluE POLITE, Sad TONY TOCCO.

Source

said that he had recently learned'rcliably" that all tho

Italian nuabers houses in Detrolt were then counected.

Source

Bald that FAFFARLE QUISARANO net with other rcprcaentatives

of each of the Italian nuabers factions at the end of the

month, at which tine each house nurt bring 1ts tapes which

are tabulated and thes the proceeds are divided.

The source

expressed the opinion that such a monthly division could only

have been ordered by an individual with the power nud stature

Ot JOF TRILLI, and that the nove was unde necessary in order

to stop the frequent raids made by various nunbers houses in

recruiting successiul numbera pick up nen fron other houses,

the overlapping of bettors, and the aggravating in-fighting

prevalent in such business operationa.

THERE TOL-LOUS

Sourco gave a list of the nunes, residences, and

identification numbers, where know, of the "elder statesen",

a list of proniient sons of present and formor "ulder stateanen".

and nanes, addrosses and identification numbers of individuals

Identified by Detroit Sources as being connected with the

LICAVOLI- BORIANITO grOUp, the CORRADO GrOUp, and the PRIZIOLi

POLIZZI grOup in the Detrott ares.

"ELDER STATESHEN"

Mane and Identification

unbe

JOSEPH ZERILLI

Detroit Police Department

#11413

HIGLIAH "PLACK BILL" TOCCO

Detroit Police Departuent

#13817

Residence

702 Middlesex Road

Grosse jointe Park,

Michigan

781 Middlesex Roud

Grosse Pointe Park, Wichigan

NW 45993 DocId: 32339483 Page 6

---

