# docid-32303525

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5/28/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10284-10037

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 100-42303-644

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: MADVAY, J. EDWARD

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

06/12/1959

25

SMO, ASSOC, AFFIL, MAFIA, BKG, CRIMINAL ACT,

GAMBLING, NUMBERS, GUNS

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

05/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

HW 45854

DocId: 32303525

Page 1

---

## Page 2

PG 94-363

ADMINISTRATIVE (cont 'd)

It is noted that the "Pittsburgh Press," a Pittsburgh daily

newspaper, started a series of articles about the Mafia.

basis for this series is FREDERIC SONDERN's book,

The

of Evil": The Mafia.

"Brotherhood

INFORMANTS

PG T-1 1s PCI

PG T-2 is PCIL

STUDEBAKER.

OTHER 4

contacted by SA GENE H. STUDEBAKER.

_contacted by SA GENE H.

LEADS

BUFFALO - Information

One information copy of this report designated for Buffalo,

the office covering the activities of FRANK VALENTI.

- A -

COVER PAGE

NW 45854 DocId: 32303525 Page 2

---

## Page 3

PG 94-363

MONONGAHE LA, PA.

On April 28, 1959, PG I-I, who has furnished reliable

information

in the past, was recontacted for additional

information he might have about Mafia activities.

PG T-I stated that during the Prohibition Years he had a

close association with the Italian criminal element in

Mononganela, Pa

He explained that

any time a crime was committed peopleewould refer to the

He said that he

did not doubt but what the Mafia did exist in the past

received a threatening letter from the "Black Hand."

He

said he does not believe the Mafia exists today because

the leaders of the Italian criminal element of the early

1930's have matured, become wiser and those who were

probably. Maila members went into many

(types of successful

businesses and as a result it was no longer necessary for

them to have close ties and use physical violence to make

a livelihood.

He added that he felt that the development of

better law enforcement agencies and better and more honest

politicians has had something to do with the discontinuance

of the Mafia.

He again stated that he had no specific knowledge

regarding the activities of the Mafia and did not know of any

given person who was a member of such a group.

on May 6, 1959, PG T-2, who has furnished reliable information

in the past, furnished the following information.

PG T-2 stated that he has lived all of his life in the

vicinity of Monongahela, Pa., and when 10 to 15 years of age

he remembered his parents, aunts and uncles often referred to

the "Black Hand" and Mafia.

He said that when a major crime

was committed the "old Italian people" would say,

"it was

done by the 'Black Hand.'"

He further advised that he has

no knowledge of any person who was a member of the Mafia and

does not believe that such an organization exists in

He stated that

which threatened to kidnap his daughter if he did not make

certain payments. PG T-2 explained that his uncle was a

- 16 -

NW 45854 DocId:32303525 Page 3

---

## Page 4

PG 94-363

bootlegger and operated a speak-easy in Monongahela in the

late 1920's and early 1930's, and that he did

not cooperate

with the Mafia and as a result received the threats. He said

that to his knowledge his uncle never paid the Mafia and that

he recalled his uncle always carried

a revolver during that

period of time. He said neither his uncle nor anyone else

mentioned names of individuals who were members of the Mafia

and that he never determined that any specific individual was

a member of the Mafia.

LO CASTRO was questioned relative to his deceased father,

who was listed as a Mafia suspect by the Kefauver Committee

in 1952 and by the United States Narcotics Bureau, and whether

his father, LEONARD LO CASTRO, SR., had ever been

the victim

of an extortion threat.

LO CASTRO replied in the negative

and continued that his

'father was born in Sicily and migrated

to this country in 1898.

From 1898 until his death two years ago, LO CASTRO stated,

his father spent the majority of his time in Erie as he was

a self-employed

proprietor of a fruit and produce company

and later a small grocery store in the vicinity of 16th and

Myrte Streets in Erie. He was the father of 12 children, all

of whom were born in

department.

LO CASTRO continued that if his father had ever been in

trouble or had ever been troubled by any person or organized

gang, he felt sure that he would have known about it.

He went on to state that to the best of his knowledge his

father had no known connections with any known criminals in

the Erie area or any other area.

The individuals listed below were contacted by SA J. EDWARD

KERN on the dates noted, and all advised that they knew of

no individuals who might be connected with, or continuing

the practices of, the Mafia in the Johnstown, Pa., area at

the present time. All of the individuals contacted have

been in police work in this area for over 10 years, and all

wouldebe in a position to know if the Mafia was active:

- 17 -

NW 45854 DocId: 32303525 Page 4

---

