# docid-32288376

## Page 1

" Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Date:

6/12/201

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-10199-10152

HQ

92-3182-197

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

04/28/1961

3

GAL, B/F INT, ASSOC

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

CURRENT STATUS :

4

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

03/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

• COMMENTS :

v9.1

DocId: 32288376

154

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Recons

DATE: 21-14-2017

d. 3. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

APR 2 8 1961

TELETYPE

of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

Mr. Tolson

Mr. Parsons..

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Belmont

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. DeLac

Mr. Evane

Mr. Malone:

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Tele. Room

Mr. Ingram

Miss Gandy.

URGENT

4-28-61

9-50

PM CLM

TO DIRECTOR, FBI 192-31821

Tell

dest

FROM SAC, CHICAGO 192-373/ 3P

GUS ALEX, AKA. AR. DAILY SUMMARY.

INFORMATION PREVIOUSLY FURNISHED BY CG SIX FOUR FOUR THREE DASH C

INDICATED THAT

TH

DUNCAN PARKING METER COMPANY,

WHICH MAKES AND

MAINTAINS PARKING METERS FOR THE CITY OF CHICAGO, IS CONTROLLED

BY THE OUTFIT SPECIFICALLY GUS ALEX, FRANK

FERRARO, AND SYDNE

GEORGE

PYCAIN, ASSISTANT SECRETARY DIDEAN DASH MILLER MAINTENANCE

CORP.,

ADVISED THAT THE MAINTENANCE CORP. IS A SEPARATE ENTITY FROM

UNCAN DASH MILLER PARKING METER DIVISION OF THE NAUTEC CORP•

WITH HEADQUARTERS IN NEW YORK CITY. HE STATED THAT THERE IS NO

OUTSIDE FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE MAINTENANCE CORP., IT BEING CONTROLLED

BY THE ROBINSON FAMILY. HE STATED THAT TO HIS KNOWLEDGE NO ONE HAS

EVER ATTEMPTED TO MUSCLE THE DUNCAN DASH MILLER MAINTENANCE CORP.

AND DENIED KNOWING ALEX, FERRARO OR HUMPHREYS. HE STATED THAT SYDNEY

KORSHAK IS A LABOR ATTORNEY FOR THE DUNCAN DASH MILLER PARKING METER

CORP. JEROME !J.?

DASH MILLER MAINTENANCE CORP. AND THAI HE, HIS WIFE SANDY DAUGHTER

END PAGE ONE

56 MAY 10,1968.

DocId: 32288376 Page 2

---

