# docid-32290024

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/12/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10202-10300

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3182-741

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, CG

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

02/19/1963

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION :

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

GAL, ASSOC, B/F INT

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

4

Redact

08/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 45679 DocId: 32290024

Page 1

249

---

## Page 2

4-41 (Rev. 10-16-62)

DECODED COPY

polar

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

• Casper

Callahan

Conrad

DeLoach

Evans

Gale -

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

•Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

• Radio

&s Teletype

DEFERRED

2-19-63

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAC CHICAGO

7-53 AM LUC

190750

S

GUS

LEX, AKA, ARe

DAILY SUMMARY.

WAS FORMER STRIP DANCER AT CABANA

CLUB PRIOR TO ITS CLOSING RECENTLY BECAUSE OF REVOCATION

OF LICENSE AS RESULT OF RAID BY CHICAGO POLICE DEPT. AT

WHICH TIME

AND OTHER GIRLS WERE ARRESTED FOR

SOLICITING DRINKS AND PERFORMING LEWD ACTS.

INTERVIEWED AND ADVISED THAT SHE IS ACQUAINTED

WITH ALEX AS HAVING DATED A FORMER GIRLFRIEND OF HERS.

SHE CLAIMS SHE KNEW. NOTHING OF

HIS. CURRENT ACTIVITIES OR

SOURCE OF INCOME: SHE ADVISED, HOWEVER, THAT SHE HAD

HEARD THAT ONE THIRD OF THE PROFITS FROM THE CABANA CLUB

WENT TO THE OUTFIT. SHE CLAIMED THAT THE CLUB WAS RUN BY

JOHN AND GEORGE SPUDEAS AND MIKE ELLIS. SHE ALSO ADVISED

THAT THE SPUDEAS BROTHERS HAVE A FINANCIAL INTEREST IN THE

CHEZ PARISIAN SHOW LOUNGE, CROSSROADS RESTAURANT AND THE

CLUB ROUGE.

RECEIVED:

ALEX ARMED AND DANGEROUS WITH SUICIDAL TENDENCIES.

9:03 AM

KEC- 42

92-8803182-741

6 FEB 19 1963

EX-101

OTHER 4

51 FEB 26 1963

parte inaline do prose in the ure me orlo ra po be did minated outside the Bureau, it is suffeuted that it be suitably

NW 45679 DocId: 32290024 Page 2

---

