# docid-32331573

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/11/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90097-10195

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 166-637-20

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

BA

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 07/17/1963

PAGES: 57

SUBJECTS:

CHARLES TOURINE

JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

IN 45964

DocId: 32331573 Page 1

---

## Page 2

BA 165-53

ADMINTSTRATIVE DATA:

The subject of this case is also the subject of

WhO case entitled

"JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE; Unknown Wire Service,

AR; IGA - WS"

, Bureau file 92-3000, WFO file 92-81, Baltimore

file 92-99.

Information received from confidential informants

is being reported in the antiracketeering case and,

in accordance

with Bureau regulations, is not being

set out in the details

of this

ITAR report.

During the latter part of March, 1963, considerable

information was received from confidential informants RH 95-C

and WE 1309-C, that JOSEPH FRANCIS NESLINE and JOHN RALPH

"BILLY

ITCHELL were operating a crap game in Marylana.

RH 95-C advised SA HOWARD E. RICHARDSON, Richmond

Division,son 3/21/03, that he had learned that JOSEPH NESLINE

going In Maryland, which 15

located befween Waldorf and La Plata, Maryland. Many of their

customers were allegedly coming from Richmond and otner Virginia

poirts and from the District of Columbia:

NESLINE had reportedly commented that he had attempted

to re-open his dice game in Washington at the Amber Club,.

during the finst part of the year, but had been unable to

do so

because he was unable to obtain the necessary Police protection.

He stated that the Captain of the precinct was cooperating fully

but that somebody higher up was giving them a hard time.

This informant had previously received information

that JOSEPH NESLINE was operating a big crap game in Lexington

Park, Maryland, where a old-time bookmaker and gambler named

FISHER had reportedly arranged the

"fix"

so he could operate.

on 3/25/63, PCIL

had advised SA GIBBON E.

MC NEELY of the Washington Field Offic haABBY! BOBROW was

that he had learneo

on the weekend of 3/24/63 that GABRIEL

operating a dice game for JOSEPH NESLINE in Mary

and, about

40 miles

from the District of Columbia.

OTHER 4

COVER PAGE

HW 45964 DocId: 32331573

Page 2

---

## Page 3

BA 156:63

By airtel 3/25/63, in the antiracketeering case

concerning subject,

Weo pointed out that the FISHER referred

to by

RH 95-C was probably ALLEN

FISHER, 3119 Grantsville Road,

Lexington Park, Maryland,

whe was arrested by Hampton, Virginia

Police Orficers on 9/23/52 when that department conducted

gambling arrests at a dice game at Don's, 47 Water Street,

Phoebus, Hampton, Virginia.

This ace game reportedly haa

been

operated ky NESLINE and GEORGEYROHANNA several weeks prior

to 9/23/62.

MD:

Previous investigation by Baltimore developed that

ALLEN FISHER owned and operated the Honey Lane Restaurant

Lexington Park, Maryland and had a history of gambling activities.

WFO pointed out that because of the sensitive source

of the information furnished (RH 95-C) and because of the report

that

FISHER has arranged the "fix" so that NESLINE could

operate in Maryland, no contact with local law enforcement

offices

made.

or ther inquiries concerning this aspect should be

As set out in the details of this report, the location

Of NESLINE and MITCHEI.L's dice game was determined

to be in the

estate of the Paramount Sand and Gravel Company, Ripley, Maryland.

When this was observed by SA J. STANLEY ROTZ and GERARD R. LOWE,

Baltimore Division and JOHN R. BUCKLEY and JOSEPH PATRICK PARKER,

Washington Field Office on 3/25/63, the automobile used by

LANGHORNE CARTER RORER, associate of NESLINE, came out of the

driveway.

on 3/27/63, RH 95-C advised the Richmond Division

that the crap game of JOSEPH NESLINE ana CHARLES WHITE being

operated by BILLY MITCHELL, had encountered some difficulty

the previous evening, with local law enforcement officials,

not further identified, and were forced to close down their

operation. Informant did not know whether the crap game

would re-open or would be noved to a different location.

By letter dated 4/10/53 the Bureau instructed Baltimore

and WFO to initiate a ITAR investigation regarding NESLINE.

On 4/30/63, RH 95-C advised that the dice game formerly

run by NESLINE and a

partner in Maryland, had been closed

down for a week or so and they do not expect to resume the game

at the same location. Informant stated that he was referring

-D-

COVER PAGE

NW 45964 DocId:32331573 Page 3

---

## Page 4

BA 155-55

to the dice game which NESLINE had operated in a hunting lodge

on U. 3. Route 301, near La Plata, Marylande

As indicateá in Baltimore letter to Director and other

offices dated 5/9/53, Baltimore had made contact with JULIAN

I. JOHNSON, whose residence was directly across Maryland Route

225 from the lane which leads to the estate being used by

NESLINE at Ripley, Maryland for his dice game. In the event

that activities at the estate had been resumed, Baltimore

was prepared to institute stationary surveillance.

WFO informants who were in direct contact with subject's

operation indicated that NESLINE's dice game

was started at

1912 Biltmore Street, N. W., Nashington, D. C. and was in

operation here during May, 1953.

By airtel dated 6/7/53 WFO advised the Director,

Baltimore

Richmond and Miami that information had been furnished

by wF 1108-c that subject and his associates plan to move their

dice game from Washington, D. C. to St. Mary's County, Maryland.

ALLEN FISHER, well known Lexington Park, Maryland gambler,

was negotiating at proposed site.

Information received by SA GERARD R. LOWE on 5/6/63

from BENJAMIN H. BURROUGHS, JR., NA, Deputy Sheriff, St. Mary's

County, Leonardtown, Maryland and set out in the details of this

that NESLINE was behind the gambling

establishment being set up by FISHER at the Sportsman's Club

Restaurant on Maryland Route 5,St. Mary's County, Marylana.

Further details were furnished by BURROUGHS on 6/7, 9/63

to SA GERARD R. LOWE and SA J. STANLEY ROTZ.

In the interest of economy, copies of several pages

containing this information as included in Baltimore's

dissemination memo dated 6/19/63, have been used as inserts

in this

report to avoid retyping.

Contacts with Maryland State Police mentioned therein

were made by reporting agent J. STANLEY ROTZ.

On 6/7/63, WF 1108-C had advised SA JOHN R. BUCKLEY,

WFO, that on 6/5/63, dice equipment had been moved from

Was the ton, omanis Restaurant catate are toute s, just over

the County line,

in St. Mary's County, Maryland. Informant

COVER PAGE

NW 45964

DocId: 32331573

Page 4

---

## Page 5

BA 155-53

described the dice table as a permanent mahogany. Las Vegas

type, approximately 12 feet by 5 feet, very heavy

costing about $2500.

The table had been used for about one

week in the amber Club's operation,

Washington,

D. C. in

1952 and is constructed in such a manner that it cannot be

speedily disassembled.

operated the dice game

The group planned

to start operations as soon as the shack was

fixed up probably Saturday, June 8, 1953 or Monday June 10, 1953.

BA 1180-C advised SA LOWE, Baltimore Division, on

5/5/53 that he had heard rumors that sometime

in the

near

future, gambling was to occur at the Sportsman's Club Restaurant,

Charlotte Hall, Maryland where they were renovating a building

behind the restaurant.

BA 938-0 advised 3A GENE S. WEIMER on 5/28/63 that

he had heard that JOSEPH NESLINE had

opened up a game room on

the second floor of the Spring Lake Hotel, but had had more

extensive operations at some isolated spot in lower Charles

County, Maryland.

The Charles County operation had been closed

because the

subjects were told that the FBI was watching

They have moved the operation to Washington, D. C.

where they were operating every evening with heavy play being

on Saturday nights.

The washington,

operation was

Located on Biltmore Street, akout two blocks off Columbia

Road. An ex-prise fighter, LEN

KENTHAL was employed as

bodyguard and bouncer and an individual called Philadelphia

SMITTY was the doorman, who occasionally

One "EDDIE HOLLYWOOD"

was employed as a "touter" te bring in the

street trade.

The informant believed that NESLINE loaned the

money to BILLY MITCHELL to set the place up and left che

actual operation in the hands of MITCHELL and (FNU) WHITE.

Informant advised he had heard that two or three months

previously, NESLINE, MITCHELL, WHITE and a man known as

"SPORTY"

had purchased the Spring Lake Hotel and the surrounding tract

of land on united states Route Gee Count tate tere

Their intentions were to build a horse race track

not granted a Maryland license for a flat track.

They still

apparently have hopes of huilding such an operation when slot.

-F-

COVER PAGE

NW 45964 DocId:32331573 Page 5

---

## Page 6

EA 155-53

machines are outlawed in five years, and Charles County #111

be eagar for revenue sources.

On 5/5/53 RH 95-C-TE, advised that JOSEPH NESLINE

and "SPORTY MARTIN (FRANK E. MARTIN) were holding the grand

opening of á

Thew dice game during the evening of 5/7/53.

This ]game was to be operate in the Sportsman's Club, Route 5

near, waldorf, maryland.

They reportedly had obtained protection

from unidentified local law enforcement officials and contemplated

remaining atthat location for an 'indefinite period of time:

NESIINE and MARTIN had reportedly spent a lot of,

money remodeling

and furnishing the place which was described as

"very plush.

They were insuring the security of the game by having

'spotters"

surveil the area during non-club hours as well as at times when

the game is in progress.

No player can gain admittance to the

game unless they have

• been invitea.

On 6/10/62, RH 95-C-TE had advised that NESLINE and his

partners estimated that they could make a million dollars if

they could stay open six months.

Informant had heard that

movie star GEORGEKRAFT and KEELY SMITH were present at the

game

on Friday night 6/7453. Informant explained that the club

MD.

was equiped with a lounge, where one could buy drinks and

tha's before entering the game room, one must pass through

three doors located between the lounge ana the game room.

Roulette, dice and blackjack ganes were being held in the game

room./ There: were a number of women present and Arpege Perfume

Both NESLINE and

"SPORTY"

MARTIN worked as dealers during the evening of 5/7/53.

By letter 647/53, Norfolk advised that NF 188-C-TE

had advised SA JAMES S. SPRATT on 0/5/53 that GEORGE ROHANNA.

and JOSEPH NESLINE had moved their gambling operation from

Washington, D. C. to a

building near a restaurant in St.

Mary's County, Maryland. Informant understood that a fix

been arranged with law enforcement officials in

St. Mary's County, so that the gambling club could operate

without police interference.

On 6/14/53, PCIE

R. FLETCHER, ALBERT B. MILLER

junday, 6/9/53 her boyfriend

nd GBRARD R: LOVE that tox

advised SA GEORGE

persons

arrested in

the raid on 5/13/53 at the sportsman's

Club)

-G-

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

NW 45964 DocId:32331573 Page 6

---

## Page 7

RA 165-53

had told her that the Sherlff of 3t. Mary's County, ROBERT

AMIEDZINSKI had apycared in the Sportsman's Club gambling

establishment on

the night of 5/18/53 and informea the gamblers

present, particularly ALIEN FISHER that if he received any

complaint concerning gambling, he was going to raid the

establishment.

Informant related that about 3 p.m. on Sunday

Itold her that

who was also arrested during the

raid, had moved out gambling paraphernalla, a roulette wheel

and table, plus a dice table from the gambling establishment

at Charlotte Hall and took it to the L & M Van Line Company,,

Allied Moving Van Agents, Lexington Park, Maryland.

Informant stated she was at the Cedar Point Tavern

in Lexington Park, Maryland on 6/12/53 wnen a telephone call was

received

by the bartender GEORGE

VUSGROVE •

Following the

phone call, MUSGROVE told informand, that the $20,000 worth

of gambling paraphernalia was still stored at Allied Van

Line Agents at Lexington

Park, Maryland.

The pertinent details

of this latter information was disseminated to the Maryland

State Police.

on 6/8,9/53 BENJAMIN H. BURROUGHS, JR., Deputy

Sheriff for St. Mary's County, turned over to SA LOWE and

ROTZ, notations of license numbers of automobiles which had

appeared at the Sportsman's Club Restaurant Parking Lot

on the evenings of 6/7, 8/53.

Some of the notations had been

made by Mr. BURROUGHS but some had been made by a source of

his, possibly in the dark, and not too legibly. Mr. BURROUGHS

explained that he could not say whether the occupants of the

automobiles had actually gone into the gambling club, located

to the right and rear of the restaurant or whether they

had merely stopped

at the restaurant itself for food and

refreshment.

The identification of persons to whom the forego. ing

license numbers were registered was obtained from Department

of Motor Vehicles records in Maryland, District of Columbia,

and Virginia on 5/10/53. In view of the lack of

certainty

that the owners or occupants were actually in the gambling

- H -

COVER PAGE

OTHER 4

M.D,

NW 45964 DocId:32331573 Page 7

---

