# docid-32310756

## Page 1

Released under the Join F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Hote).

DATE: 11-14-2017

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

11/22/20

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10307-10060

CG

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: ELSUR 92-350-E-117

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

CG

TO:

TITLE :

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

10/29/1962

4

ANTHONY ACCARDO (ELSURS)

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

06/20/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

, Docid: 32310756

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

DATE: 11-14-2017

CG 6485-0*

10/38729/52

7:30 ?:1

Inner party being

prepared.

on inclides sale

DOMINIC BLA

GANCANA :

Why did keady gait until now to but up this

blockade?

What's you opinion?

CLICK AT :

CIA:

C1:

GIA:

GL:

GIA:

GL:

GIA:

GL:

Well,

From a1l his

tHO

nonths

he didn't a want to nove until he

heard

advisors. Furthermore, he couldhve moved

a0.

A yeir and

= half ago, you mean.

Ho,

two month ago.

egardles,

that'

the

hold.

That was the time.

time he should've taken

We

needed an alici then.

what

kind of an alibi? Instead of those (bos) (obs)

worrying

about

us por (obs) trviar to moke a livino,

why

don't they catch that (obs)

ad waylay hin?

Your

1iht, they shold have done that nonths ago.

Just two more months, and it would have been all

over

with.

It's

sot to be political. Part of

the

campaion. This

thing shold have been stopped

two months

ago.

This thi& is conna hurt the Republicans.

(group

has

diner, prepared by SI ONE: LI and BLASI)

BLASI announces that

states

they have

all rese

Tof Ville venice

wabion.

filled

Villa

Venice for several months

ahead. CIA CANA is pleased

by this.

92-350 SubEIN

FBI - CHICAGO

11962

DocId: 32310756 Page 2

---

## Page 3

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (11 USC 2107 Hote) .

DATE: 11-14-2017

MATASSA:

UNK:

GIA:

M:

UNK:

M:

GLI:

GIA:

M:

UNK :

GIA:

You should have heard LEN O'CONNOR tonight

lacing: into the Democrat's.

Why does

this guy dothat?

He_s a commentator.

No, he can editorialize.

You know who

sponsors him?. MARSHALL savings. You know.

We wanted to spongor him.

- Yeah, I know.

He was rough tonight.

One of unknown is XXXAX WILLIAM JOUNSON,

owner

Sportsman's Park Race Track. nearscusses fact that

MARGE EVERETT (LINDHEIMER) has a piece

of Hialeah :

Race Track i Florida, and within a few years will own

all of it.

Unknown complains that a radio announcer yesterday

knooked

the Villa

Venice on the air, stated that if

anyone

comes out they better bring a bankroll.

So what?

*Bad publicity brings business.

look. at

MANNY

All that publicity. Didn't

ost nim a dime.

Yeah, but inthe long run it hurts you.

(talk about

floor plan of Villa

Venice,

and fact

that it opens

a week from Thursday 11/9/62.)

There isn't a prettier roon in the country thant the

Villa Venice.

(ANTHONY ÁCCARDO came in, greeted by all)

MOE, you should get that JANE DAYWYN to sing in the

Venetion Room

(DARWYN is sInger managed by CG

6575-C TE, scheduled to appear at Villa Venice).

No, the

room there is

too small. (Venetian Room

coctail lounge off the

main room at the Villa Venice).

-2-

DocId: 32310756 Page 3

---

