# docid-32297683

## Page 1

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

6/15/201

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10219-10459

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-30067-75, 76

Released under the John

*. Kenned!

Assassination Record:

Collection Act of 1992

$44 USC 2107 Notel.

Caser: NU

53130 Date:

05-31-2017

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO : SAC, SF

TITLE:

DATE: 12/05/1957

PAGES:

4

SUBJECTS :

JOP, ASSOC, CP ACT, REL, BKG

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/24/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO

v9.1

HH 53130

DocId: 32297683

Page

1

9

---

## Page 2

.,- - TANDARD FORM NO. 6A

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI (100-30067)

DATE: 12/11/57

FROM

SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (100-1465)

'ALL IFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFTES

DATE /0-6-94 BY SPS)

урик

SUBJECT

JOHN PITTMAN

IS -

Rerep SA WILBERT H. KEHE dated 11/14/57 at San Francisco

and Bulet 12/5/57•

Enclosed herewith are four copies of amended page 3, as

requested in relet, setting forth documentation for MARVIN MURRY,

14

aka MARVIN MURRAY, in paragraph 2.

San Francisco has corrected

its copies. SF I-12, mentioned in the amended page 3, is SF-2175-S,

and the information is located in SF 100-36015-38. I-12 has

furnished reliable information in the past.

It should be noted that MURRY is identical with Bureau

references on MARVIN RICHARD MURRY according to SF 1923-S, who has

furnished considerable information on MURRY and is acquainted with

It is not believed necessary to initiate a security investi-

gation on MARVIN RICHARD MURRY at the present time, inasmuch as

he has been outlawed by the CP, which knows him as

an "informer."

For that reason, he also has no potential as an informant, as well

as for the reason that he is very unstable, evidenced by

an at-

tempt to blackmail his own parents and a threat to kill his mother.

No further information is available regarding the report

he was requested to prepare by PITTMAN and it is not believed ad-

visable to contact MURRY himself to obtain this information, in

view of his mental condition and instability.

Information is re-

ceived on MURRY from time to time through established security

informants in Stanislaus County, the area of his residence.

MARVIN RICHARD MURRY originally contacted Resident Agents

CLARENCE W. DUNKER and DANIEL P. FITZGERALD in Modesto during

October, 1953, and furnished information concerning the CP activities

of his parents and other individuals in Stanislaus County, but de-

nied CP membership or sympathy for the Party.

He admitted attend-

ing CP and Independent Progressive Party (IPR) meetings in 1951 or

1952, but did state that he was "kicked.

aut of the CP and IPP fOI

various reasons six times, the last time being, when he advised his

mother that he was going to talk toithe FBI.

2 - Bureau

'(REGISTERED)

CAOUZ AE

BOORDED

100-30067-76

1 --SF 100-1

1 - SE 10Q

105 (MARVIN RICHARD MURRY)

WHK: hko

SED 16 1957

(4)

Gidet. " filed wett

ar.73

6 2 DEG 191957

53130

DocId: 32297683

Page 2

---

## Page 3

=o.o

Buf1le 100-30067

SF 100-1465

On 12/15/53 MURRY telephonically contacted Resident Agent

EDWARD F. CHARBONNEAU in the San Jose

Resident Agency and volun-

teered

information concerning JOHN and ROSLYN LINDESMITH.

In connection with the case of DAVID MC KAIL FORBES, MURRY

was contacted on Bureau instructions by SA ROBERT F. SAVAGE on

2/18/57, at which time he stated that he did not desire to testify

and did not want his identity disclosed. He explained that he had

is entits

only recently been able to talk or visit with his mother, LILLIAN

MAY MURRY, who is one of the CP leaders in Stanislaus County.

* the ok

MURRY stated that he is most anxious to have his mother break with

the CP because he feels her membership is the cause of all family

trouble, and he stated that although he wished to cooperate with

the FBI, he would prefer to assist his mother and family.

It should be noted that information volunteered by MURRY

has proved reliable in that other informants in the area have sub-

stantiated it.

It is not believed MURRY should be contacted for

information which he does not see fit to volunteer, however,

be-

cause of his instability and mental condition illustrated by the

following instances:

(1) On 9/2/53, both SF 1604-S and SF 1923-s reported

that MURRY attempted to blackmail his parents for

$1000, threatening to tell the FBI about them un-

less they gave him the money.

Subsequently, in

October, 1953, he did volunteer information

to the

FBI.

(2) SF 1604-S on 7/8/54 reported that MURRY's mother

stated he was a mental case and had threatened to

kill her.

-2-

HH 53130 DocId: 32297683 Page 3

---

