# docid-32157368

## Page 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD_NUMBER: 124-10124-10020

RECORD_ SERIES: DL

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 44-1639-3870

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

RIGINATOR: FB

FROM:

HOPKINS. EMIL E.

TO:

TITLE:

Released under the John

assassination Records

Collection Aet of 1992

144 USC 2107 Notel.

Case#:NW 54463 Date:

10-12-2017

DATE: 12/08/1963

PAGES: 6

SUBJECT:

SEE FBI 100-10461-2438

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

11/15/1996

Redact

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

UPDATE DATE:

01/25/2001

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

HH 54463

DocId: 32157368

Page 1

---

## Page 2

Cover. Shoot for Informant Report or

Majoriel

FD-306 (3-21-58)

HH 544

Date recolved

Received from (name or symbol number)

Received by

12/16/63

CI 104-S

SA EMIL E. HOPKINS

Method of delivery (check appropriate blocks)

X in person

by telephone

_by mall

orally

I recording device

-X wiltten by Informant

If orally furnished and reduced to writing by Agent:

Date

Date of Report

Dictated

12/8/63

Datols) of activity

Transcribed

Authenticated

by Informant

12/8/63

Brief deseription of activity or' material

Report of CI 104-S re Communist Party meeting

held 12/8/63, at home of GENNE KÜHN,

6105

File where.original is located if not attached

Front St., Wheeling, West Vizginia.

134-8A-557

Remarks:

wtmost care should be taken that any information taken fron

this report is paraphrased to protect infomant, since only

seven individuals attended the meeting.

11 - Cleveland (RM)

100-17257 (CP Org.)

10000

ALT INFORMITIAN CONTAINED

HERETN IS

UNCEASSIFIAD

DATE

5-1593

62-

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

JFK

(Assassination of President

KENNEDY)

Eflo

(JACK LEON RUSY, Aka.)

105

ASK HARVY OSWAIN

65-721

100-17255

(ANTHONY KRCHMAREK)

(Membership)

2 C: 100-10461

444-1639

100-16463 (Political Activities)

100-17797 (Factionalism)

100-23484 (Mass Organisations)

100-17947 (Strategy in Industsy)

Dallas (RM)

62°

(Assassination of President KENVIDY):

44-1639-38704

ACHED

INDEXESAR

ERIALIZEDAQ FILED...

- 1934

FBI - DALLAS

=Block-Stamp

(JACK LEON RUBY)

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

6 - New York

100-

(RM)

(CP Org.)

620.

(Assassination of Pres. KENNEDY)

4440

(JACK LEON RUBY)

105 -

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

BEARCHED

ARIALIZED

JAN & 8964

POI:

100-16021 (ARNOLD JOHNSON)

DEId?32157368 Page 2

---

## Page 3

134-8A-557

HH 54463

(Copies Continued)

100-145835. (CP, USA, Public Appearances of

Party Leaders - 414)

13- Pittsburgh (RM)

100-8571 (CP, State of, West Virginia)

100-8572

(CP, Ohio Valley Section)

100-8664

(CP, Membership)

100-

ARNOLD JOHNSON)

62-a

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

440

(JACK: LEON RUBY)

105-

(LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-8549

(GENNE KUHN)

•100-

100g

(Factionalism)

(Political Affairs) :

157-

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100-

(Mass Organizations)

100-14821 (HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, Jr.)

240

Cincinnati

100-3500 (CP Organizatiom):

1348A

62-2758

(Assassination of President KENNEDY)

44-456 (JACK. LEON RUBY)

105-2505 (LEE HARVEY OSWALD)

100-7964

(CP Membership)

100-8227

(Political Activities)

100-8481 (Factionalism)

10012701 (Cominfil, Mass Organizations)

100-8359 (Strategy

in Industry)

100-12483

(CHARLES PALMER)

100-12408

(RANDALL GORBY)

100-9142

(FLOYD WELLS)

100.7006

(GENNE, KUHN)

100012474

(JOHN FABRY)

100-12475

(SHIRLEY FABRY)

100-6386

(FRED WALCHLI)

100-1910

(ARNOLD JOHNSON)

100-1083

157•195

(ANTHONY KRCHMAREK)

(LEE M. JOHNSON)

100-14096

(HUGH GILMORE CROCKARD, JR.)

100-8402

(Youth Matters)

134-142

(ADOLPH PACIFICO):

100-12707 (Copinfil, Labor Unions)

Page 3

---

## Page 4

134-8A-557

Informant's report set forth below:

"Steubenville, Ohio.

December 8, 1963

"On the above date a group from Steubenville, Met at

610 S. Front St. Weeling,

W. Va. the home of a Genne

(Crockard) Kuhn.

This was a Communist Party Meeting.

The persons who were in attendance who were recognised

Were:

1 Floyd Wells:

•A Carpenter and treacurer of his

local Union from Steubenville.

2 - CHARLES PALMER: A steel worker and former grievance

Connittenan from the wheeling Steel Corpn. and Member

of Local Union 1190 U.S.W.A. C.I.O.

A.F.Io

3 • Randal Gorby®

from the wheeling Steel Corpa and a

former shop stewart is a Member of Local Union $1190

U.S.W.A C.I.O. AFI

& Arnold Johnson:

former state chairman of the

Commist Party of Ohio and who now is a sortiof public

relations man for the Commist party working out of

New

York City,

New York.

He secures speakers for

any engagements such as Colleges and Campus lectures

5 John Fabrey a Miner from Sithfleld

He is know

as the smiling Slovak.

6. Mrs. John Fabrey his Wife

7o Gene (Crockard) Kuhn the hostess is a long time c.

party worker former wife of Hugh Crockard Now deceased

and she

since Married Emil Kuhn who now resides at her

home.

Gene

has three

children two to her first

husband and the other to the latter

She has a son

about 19

yrs old who Is being schooled and worked

over

by the c. party in New York

Genne Kuhn Continued: The C party wanted to take her son

Gill Crockard out of her influence so he could be taught

3.0

54463 DocId: 32157368

Page

4

---

## Page 5

GI

134-8A-557

something Constructive. This Gill recently, a few years

or less ago Made a trip to the

Soviet Union ete on the

Youth Conference Know

as the World Youth Conference.'

He will probably emerge from the New York thing as a

full time organiser in some special field suchas youth.

At the start of the Meeting Genne brought out

her brief

case full of clipsings. (Newspaper) etc

she

also had a lot of penciled notes which she was

undoubtedly going to use to show what she was doing

to give others hell for not co operating with her.

But the first discussion by A. Johnson centered around

the late Pres. Kennedy.

Arnold explained that since Oswald was Considered a

Communist then a wave of hysterla was about to explode

against the C. party of America but by the time the

re-actionaries were getting started it was announced

that it had been disclosed that it seemed like the

extreme

fight had been active. This was bore out

by the declaration of Russia that it was not the

right or almost a fascist act. This seemed to sober

Texas.

Arnold stated he was asked by C.B.S. News about this

Oswald as to a letter he had written to the party, he

told them he gets lots of letters of enquiry about the

C. party and he probably answered it as he does hundreds

of others and even sent him literature if he requested

it. They (C.B.S.) wanted him to go on the air with a

statement. but he stated to them he would have to dig the

letter out and be sure before he Made any statement.

Randal Gorby asked Arnold Johnson if when he got back to

New York to look in the files if he had a letter from a

Win Pokas, formerly from Bellaire, Ohio, and also an

Inmate of Cambridge Asylum for a period of time, Gorby

- 4.

HH 54463 DocId: 32157368 Page 5

---

## Page 6

CT 134084-557

asked Jotnson

to

compare

the

letter

Oswald's to see if they didn't have

of Pokey's with

a Lot ta Common.

Palmer stated that

Me shodlat minister be thought the statement by the

Covered the

situation very good

when hs stated that the fact that the Murder of Bill

Moore, M Edgar Evers and others In the south going

by without punishent had set the stage for the

Assassination of Fres. Kennedy.

Everyone readily

agreed.

Arnold Johnson further stated that no real Marxist

Could do such a thing. There is not Much doubt

that

since the Soviet Union had expelled him by not

giving him a citisenship In the soviet Union because

they thought him to be an Agent of Fascist. Genne

Meanwhile was Chomping at the bit trying to get her

story told about the N.A.A.C.I and CORE.

she finally got her Chance to unload.

She

stated that about the time of the civil' Rights

March on Washington a

few days

before she had been

working with CORE and NAACP the reporter from the

kneeling paper Intelligencer had Called and wanted

to talk about her.

she gave him answers on the

phone and finally hung up on him.

from the time

this phone coversation was completed she had been

quoted in the newspaper and exposed as a Commist

parsy Menber, which brought about her expolsion from

since has been restored to

Membership.

Then lately a Man (Negro) by name of Johnson

head of the local col group was indieted for robbing a

Bus deiver in Steuberville,

Ohio

Gene had got in

touch with R. Corby as she thought Johnsor was being

framed. Gorby found out and told her

at this Meeting

that he had did the robbing and was Not being framed.

The best thing to do stated Gorby was to give him

help but do not put core and the NAACP out on a limb

by doing it.

-5

HH 54463 DooId:32157368

Page 6

---

## Page 7

CT 134-8A-557

"Palmer stated that it was.

News to him as

the only thing

he Knew about It was the

articles in the paper and the

first one looked as if Genne had stayed

I on the phone

too long should have hung up quick. He also stated that

In 1948 when he had this trouble everyone Knew about

It and then he got more help and was successful In

defeating the reactionaries:

You have to always work

together on these Matters if you will be successful.

The hour was drawing Near ten o'clock P.M. and the

Steuberville delegation had to work that Nite.

Lunch was furnished by each and everyone with the

esception of A Johnson and he put away plenty.

Johnson stated that. he had been down this way about one

week ago and had Contacted some of his old friends

by

phons,

one In particular

was Adolph Pacifico he

wanted to talk to hin on a so called Applachian Coal project

which has been going on for some time Adolph wanted to

meet with him if he could find time later

Was unable to

see him at this time.

Everyone present asked A. Johnson When he was coming

back but he would not state eractly only he would notify

the Next time he could make it.

No literature

No Collections

During the time Geme Kuhn was belly aching about not

getting help from the Valley group It was pointed out

by A Johnson that some years back when the wheeling group

was a part of l. Virginia group that difficulties existed

and now with the wheeling group In with Ohio valley the

troublo still exists.

He also pointed out that distance

has a lot to do with it too. Gerne stated that Fred

Walchli was supposed to show up with the Beer.

She

was urged to call him against her wishes but

she got

no answer on the phone"

HH 54463 DocId:32157368 Page 7

---

